



PROCEEDINGS 



ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES 



PHILADELPHIA 



1868. 



PHILADELPHIA: 



!• R I X T E D FOR THE A C A D E >r Y 

 1868. 




laof 




LIST OF CONTRIBUTORS, 



With references to the several Articles contributed by each. 



Butcher, 11. B. List of Birds collected at Laredo, Texas, in 18GG and 18G7, 148 



Cope, Edw. D. An examination of the Reptilia and Batrachia obtained 

 by the Orton expedition to Equador and the Upper Amazon, with 



notes on otlier species ^^ 



Second Contribution to the History of the Vertebrata of the Miocene 



period of the United States 184 



On the Crocodilian genus Perosuchus 203 



Synopsis of the Extinct Batrachia of North America 208 



On Agaphelus, a genus of toothless Cetacea 221 



On some Cretaceous Reptilia 233 



On the Origin of Geuera 242 



Sixth Contribution to the Herpetology of Tropical America 305 



Observations on Reptiles of the Old World, Art. II 316 



Coues, Elliot. A Monograph of the Alcida^ 2 



List of Birds collected in Arizona by D. E. Palmer; with remarks 81 



Lawrence, Geo. N. Description of seven new species of American Birds 



from various localities, with a note on Zonotrichia melanotis.... 359, 429 



Lea, Isaac. Description of nine species of Unionida; from Lake Nicaragua, 



Central America 94 



Description of sixteen new species of the Genus Unio of the United 



States 143 



Notes on some singular forms of Chinese species of Unio 145 



Descriptions of four new species of Exotic Unionidre 150 



Descriptions of seven new species of LTniofrom X. Carolina 160 



Description of two new species of Unionidte from Equador 161 



Descriptions of Unionida? from the Lower Cretaceous Formation of New 



Jersey 162 



LcConte, J. L. Analytical table of the si)ecies of Baridius inhabiting the 



United States 361 



/ S 1 




iV". LIST OP CONTKIBUTOES. 



The Gyrinidaj of America, north of Mexico 3G5 



Xotes on the Species of Agonoderus, Bradyccllus and Sienolophus iu- 



liabiting America north of Mexico 373 



Leidy, Jos. Notice of some Vertebrate Remains from Harden Co., Texas.. 174 



Indication of an Elotherium in California 177 



Notice of some Reptilian Remains from Nevada 177 



Notice of some Vertebrate Remains from the West Indian Islands 178 



Notice of some remains of Horses 195 



Notice of some extinct Cetaceans 196 



Remarks on a jaw fragment of Megalosaurus 197 



Remarks on Conosaurus of Gibbes 200 



Notice of American Species of Ptychodus 205 



Notice of some American Leeclies 229 



Notice of some remains of extinct Pachj'derms 230 



Notice of some remains of extinct Insectivora from Dakota 315 



Meehan. Thos. Sexual Law in Acer dasycarpum Ehrb 140 



Variations in Epigaja repens 153 



Monoecism in Luzula campestris 156 



Mitchella repens, M., a dioecious plant , 183 



Variations in Taxodium and Pinus 300 



On the Seed Vessels of Forsythia 334 



Meek, F. B. and A. H. Worthen. Notes on some points in the Structure 



and Habits of the Palteozoic Crinoidea 323 



Remarks on some types of Carboniferous Crinoidea, with descriptions of 



new genera and species of the same, and of one Echinoid 335 



Norris, Thaddeus. Remarks on a New Species of Osmerus (0. Sergeanti). 93 



Rand, Theo. D. On a New Mineral in Cryolite 142 



Reakirt, Tryon. Descriptions of some New Species of Diurnal Lcpidoptera. 87 



Wood, Alph. A sketch of the Natural Order Liliaceae 165 




PROCEEDINGS 



OF THE 



ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES 



OF 



PHILADELPHIA. 



1868. 



Jan. 7th, 1868. 



The President, Dr. Hays, in the Chair. 



Thirty-three members present. 



The following papers were presented for publication : 

 " Description of some extinct fishes, previously unknown." By E. 

 D. Cope. 



" Monograph of the Alcid*." By Elliott Coues, M. D., U. S. A. 



Jan. l-ith. 

 Mr. Vaux, Vice-President, in the Chair. 



Twenty-six members present. 



The death of Edward B. Grubb, of Burlington, N. J., a member 

 of the Academy, was announced. 



On leave being granted, the Committees on the following papers 

 reported in favor of their publication in the Proceedings : 



" On the habits of a Tipulideous Larva." By E. D. Cope. 



" Mechanical theory of Solar Heat." By Jacob Ennis. 



" Description of five new species of Central American Birds." By 

 Geo. N. Lawrence. 



On motion, it was resolved that these papers should be printed in 

 the Proceedings for December, 1867. 



Jan. 21st. 



Mr. Cassin, Vice-President, in the Chair. 



Twenty-three members present. 

 1868.] 1 




Z PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



The following paper was presented for publication : 

 " List of birds collected in Southern Arizona by Dr. E. Palmer, 

 with remarks by Dr. Elliott Coues, U.S.A." 



E. D. Cope made some observations on some specimens of Vertebrata pre- 

 sented by Wm. M. Gabb, of San Francisco, which were procured by him in 

 western Nevada and the northern part of Lower California. 



Of reptiles were two undescribed species of Boas, thus increasing the 

 species of the Fauna Nearctica to four, all of which belong to the family 

 Lichanuridse Cope. The new species belong to Lichanura Cope, and are 

 thus characterized : L. roseofusca; scales in 36 series, those in the or- 

 bital ring seven or eight, the anterior fused into a large preocular. Loreals 1 

 Color brown above. Belly and especially gular region pink shaded. Length 

 two feet five inches. L. m y r i o 1 e p i s ; scales in 45 rows, those in the or- 

 bital ring of equal size, ten in number; loreals 3 Color leaden blue, with 

 three rusty red bands extending throughout the length, but very indistinct 

 on the anterior half of the body. 



Of mammalia he noticed .a good specimen of the Lagomys princeps, 

 from an elevation of 10,000 feet on the Sierra Nevada, near lat. 32°, a locality 

 about 10° further south for the genus than had been hitherto recorded for 

 this continent. Another interesting species was an Arvicola, allied to the 

 A. modesta of Baird, but not described, from Pigeon Springs, on the 

 eastern boundary line of California, east of Owen's Valley. The characters 

 are as follows : Arvicola c u r t a t a Cope ; one of the smallest species of the 

 genus, differing from A. m o d e s t a in its much shorter hind foot and tail, 

 in the lower anterior molar with two external triangles instead of three, in 

 the very light color, and other points. Ears well developed, the marginal 

 half loosely furred externally; long silky hairs from the meatus within, on 

 the exterior two-thirds. Anterior lower molar with a posterior triangle, 

 three internal and two external triangles, with an open trefoil. Tail vertebrae 

 a Utile shorter than the hind foot, and about one-half the head. Hind foot 

 a little over half the head, and five thirds the length of the fore foot. Some 

 long hairs at the bases of the toes, posterior half of the sole densely hairy. 

 Hair on upper surface of feet very long, concealing the claws. Fur rather 

 long, dense, base dark leaden, followed by a light grey, and light brown tip 

 on the upper parts of head and body ; general resulting color above light 

 greyish brown; below and feet white. 



In. Lin. 



Length to end tail vertebraj 2 9-4 



" head, (slightly crushed) 10-7 



" tail vertebrte 48 



" ear from meatus 2- 



" fore foot 3-8 



" hind foot 6- 



" whiskers 10-8 



On favorable reports of the Committees, the following papers were 

 ordered to be published : 



A Monograph of the ALCID.ZE;. 



BY ELLIOTT COUES, A.M., M.D. 



Assistant Surgeon United States Army. 



"Hinc bonus Moehringivs, boniBrissonivs, Kleinivs, Linnae cet. sedin medio in omnes 

 Veritas et Naturae ordo !" — I'allas. 



The AlcidsR contained in the collections of the Smithsonian Institution, 

 Washington ; the Academy of Natural Sciences, Philadelphia; the Society of 

 Natural History, Boston; the Essex Institute, Salem ; and in the private cabi- 



[Jan. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. O 



net of Mr. Geo. N. Lawrence, of New York, have been examined in the prepa- 

 ration of the present memoir. The writer tenders his acknowledgements to 

 the officers having immediate charge of these collections, for numerous favors 

 shown him, in a variety' of ways, during the prosecution of his researches. 



Nearly all the known species of the family are represented in the several 

 collections above named ; and the libraries of these Institutions contain all 

 needed works of reference. Being based upon such ample data, this monograph 

 ought to embody all that is known of the Alcidie in a technical point of view, 

 and constitute a fair exponent of the same. The writer ventures to indulge 

 the hope that it may not be found to fall far short of this standard. 



Before proceeding to the proper matter of the subject, it may be well to 

 glance at what has already been done in this family of birds. Following is a 

 list, in chronological order, of the principal works in which Alcidae are made 

 more or less of a specialty, with remarks upon each. It is obviously by no 

 means a bibliography of the family ; only those works being noticed in which 

 some special j)oint is presented. It may pass, however, for a reviewing sketch 

 of the literature of the subject, and as such may be valuable and helpful to the 

 student. Consultation of most of the works mentioned below is absolutely 

 necessary to a correct understanding of the subject, except in so far as it may 

 be obviated by perusal of the text of the present paper. 



I. Review of the Literature of the Family. 



Certain species of Alcidie made their appearance in the very earliest ornitho- 

 logical writings of which we have any knowledge, long before the establish- 

 ment of the science upon any fixed and recognized basis. However desirable 

 it may be — as well in justice to early authors, as tending to bring the whole 

 subject in the strongest light — to collate and identify, as far as possible, 

 the older names of these species, the attempt to cite as authoritative names 

 and descriptions which antedate the foundation of the binomial system 

 of nomenclature would be at once embarrassing and profitless. There must 

 be a fixed initial point for the commencement of authority in the matter of 

 names in the existing system of zoological nomenclature; otherwise a writer 

 might adopt names at pure caprice ; in which event the species he treats of 

 would be recognizable only b^' synonymy adduced, or descriptions appended, 

 and names would fail of their proper purpose by becoming simply indices of the 

 extent of his philological research. The date of the tenth edition of the Sys- 

 tema Naturie furnishes an unobjectionable starting-point, beyond which in- 

 vestigation need only extend from motives of curiosity ; and is on several ac- 

 counts more eligible than the date of the twelfth edition. 



Moehring, a mononomial author whose work appeared in 1752, has very fre- 

 quently been quoted as authoritative, notably, among European authors, by 

 Gray, and among American by Cassin, Baird, Bryant and others, including the 

 present writer. Five genera of Alcidie are instituted in this work of Mwhring's : 

 (1) Chenalopex, based on Alca impennis ; (2) Sphenisctis, upon Fratercula arctica ; 

 (3) Arctica, upon Meryulus alle ; (4) Vria (sc. Vria), upon U. grylle ; and (5) 

 Calaractes, upon Lomvia troile. Of these five, Arctica and Cataractes have never 

 come into use, except in an isolated instance or two ; Uria is iu universal em- 

 ploy, accredited, however, as it should be, to a later writer ; Spheytiscus is used, 

 in an entirely different acceptation, for a genus of Penguins; and Chenalopex 

 for an Anserine genus. These names, though all positively identified, will not 

 be countenanced in their Moehringian acceptation, for reasons just mentioned. 



(1758.) LiNN/Eus, Syst. Nat., ed. x. — The Linnaean genus Alca at this date 

 comprehended six species, to wit : impemiis, tarda, " pica,'' arctica, lomvia, ulle. 

 Two Guillemots — yrylle and troile — are presented under the genus Coli/mlniH. 

 Excluding from these eight species Alca " pica," which is the winter plumage 

 oi tarda, we have at the outset of authoritative records seven Linna;an names, 



1868.] 




4 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



for as many valid species, representing as many distinct genera. Tlie twelftli 

 edition (of 17GG) gives us nothing new. 



(17G0.) Biiisso}^, Ornithologia. — Tliis author gives excellent descriptions of 

 the then known species, but adds no new valid ones, though several stages of 

 plumage are characterized under distinctive names. He was a polynomialist 

 — to our lasting regret, and his great misfortune — and therefore not authorita- 

 tive in the mtitter of species. With those, however, who quote him for genera, 

 his Fratercala will stand as the name of the genus of which Alca arctica Linn, 

 is the type ; and his Una for that one typified by Uria grylle. 



(iTG-t.) Brunnich, Ornithologia Borealis. — This author was a strict binomi- 

 alist ; the question of the adoption of his names only hinges upon the accepta- 

 tion of Linnaeus at 1758 or at 17GG. Briinnich's names are in general employ, 

 as they should be. The chief point of this work, regarding the Auks, is the 

 characterization of Uria ringnin, which, though known long before, had been 

 usually referred to troile. Briinnich describes the young or winter plumage of 

 Ulamniiia tarda under the names " unisulcata " and "baltliica;" the young 

 Fratercala arctica as "Alca deleta ;" the albino Mergulus alien's "Alca Candida;" 



various plumages of Uria grglle as " grylloides," " balthica," and (No. 



116). Briinnich's " Uria lomvia " is Colgmhus troille Linn. ; his " Uria troille " 

 ami " Uria svarbag " are both Alca lomuia Linn. ; his " Uria alga " is ringoia 

 Briinn. in winter plumage. His descriptions, though brief, are all recognizable. 

 (Species now eight.) 



(L769 ) P.VLLAS, Spicilegia Zoologica,, fasc. v. — Among the writers of the 18th 

 century, no one contributed so much to a knowledge of the Alcidm as Dr. 

 Pallas. He introduced more new valid species than any other writer, and gave 

 us our first knowledge of some of the curious forms from the North Pacific. 

 His works claim the high eulogium, that every one of the species they contain 

 are identifiable from the descriptions, and that a species is very rarely twice de- 

 scribed as new. In the Spicilegia four species are for the first time described : 

 Alca cirr/iata, A. psittacula, A. cristatelht and .4. tetracula. A white state of 

 plumage of Uria grgllc [ov possibly of U. columba) is described as " Cephus 

 lacteolus." The four species above mentioned are well described, and illus- 

 trated by plates. (Species now twelve ) 



(1785.) Pennant, Arctic Ziologg. — Although the author used only vernacular 

 names, his work must be here considered, since in it four species are for the 

 first time presented. These are the " Antieut Auk" (for which the author is 

 indebted to Dr. Pallas' MS.), the "Labrador Auk," the " Pigmy Auk," and the 

 " Marbled Guillemot." The second and third of these are very dubious spe- 

 cies, which have never beeu located to the entire satisfaction of ornithologists 

 (cf. infra, under head of Fratercala arctica and Simorhynchus pusillus) ; the first 

 and fourth are good species. In this work the future Uria columba is hinted 

 at, but not named. (Species now fourteen.) 



(1788.) Gmelin, Sgstema Naluree. — In this compilation by the professional 

 plagiarist nothing new is given, but some points require notice. The genera 

 Alca and Colgmhas retain, in general, their Linn^an signification. Pennant's 

 four species, above noticed, appear in proper Latin garb, as Alca antiqua, A. 

 labradorica, A. pygmxa and Colymbus marmoratus ; Pallas' four species are 

 continued. " Cepphus lacteolus" Pallas re-appears as " Colymbus lacteolus." 

 Linnasus' " Colymbus " troille is repeated, of course ; but the other two species 

 of Murre, though having already made their debut, are discontinued, unless 

 one of them is intended by a certain " Colymbus minor" Gra., for which 

 Briinnich's Nos. 110, 111, are cited. Alca -^ pica," and .4. " balthica " are 

 perpetuated. (No additions ; species still fourteen.) 



(1790.) Latham, Index Ornithologicus. — This is the one of Dr. Latham's seve- 

 ral works in which species are binomialized, and it is therefore the authorita- 

 -tive one. Except in adopting Uria (after Brisson), the Index is nearly a repeti- 



[Jan. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 5 



tion of Gmelin. We have nothing new, except the first unequivocal indication 

 of Uria coltimba in Lathanrs " Uria grylleX&w B, from Aoonalaschka " (''fascia 

 alarum gemina alba," which was " grylle Var. A" of Latham's Syno])sis. vol. 

 iii.) " Alca Candida " Briinn. and " Cepphus lacteolus " Pallas — both of which 

 are merely albinos — still hold their ground ; but the nominal species based 

 upon the plumages of Utaviania tord-i, hitherto rampant, subside into " varie- 

 ties." (Species still fourteen.) 



(1790.) BoNNATERRE, EncyclopecUe Methodique, Orn. — Genus ringninus insti- 

 tuted, with Alcn impennis L. as type. A certain " Uria nivea " is named, for 

 which the author quotes Pallas, Spec. Zool. v. p. 33 (" lacteolus "; ^albino 

 grylle or columha). 



(1794.) DoNXDORFF (JoHANN August), Beytrclje Zoologische, zwcyter band, 

 erster theil. — The great synonymist of the eighteenth century, as he fairl}- de- 

 serves to be called, gives no descriptions, but laboriously collates astonishing 

 lists of synonyms. In the cases of some well-known birds, the citations stretch 

 over several pages, giving one such an idea of the extent of tlie ornithological 

 literature of the last century as could hardly be gained from any other work. 

 Donndorff follows Linnaeus in his reference of the Auks to two genera, Alca 

 and Colymbus ; the now sub-family Urinse composing his " Colj'mbi mit drej'ze- 

 higen Fiissen," as distinguished from the four-toed Divers proper. With this 

 author Alca " pica " and " balthica " revive ; A. " labradorica " and A. " pyg- 

 ma?a'' continue in their original significance ; Pallas' four species remain, and 

 also his nominal species " lacteolus ;" five varieties of ^rry/Ze are enumerated, 

 of which Var. " B " is columba. By the names " Colymbus minor '' and " troile" 

 the author probably intends to distinguish two species of ilurre, but his syno- 

 nyms are inextricably confused. The var. "5.'' of troile \s, however, unmis- 

 takeably r ngvia of Briinn. 



Such was the general status of .41cidine literature as it came from the hands 

 of the writers of the eighteenth century. We have fourteen well-known valid 

 species, and indications of the fifteenth {Uria columba). 



(1801.) Lepechin, Nova Acta Petrop. xii. — Alca camtschatica described. 

 (Species now fifteen.) 



(1811.) Pallas, Zoogrophia Rosso-Asiatica. — Dr. Pallas for the second time 

 comes forward to take a long step in advance of his contemporaries, with nu- 

 merous new species from the North Pacific, and with a more extensive sub- 

 division of the family. Six valid new species are described : to wit, " Cepphus " 

 cohimbii, " Cepphus " carbo, '■ Alca" monocerata, " Uria" aleutica, " Uria " dubia, 

 and " Uria " pusilla. Four known species are re-named : the Antient Auk 

 being called " Uria senicula," the Camtschatkan Auk " Uria mystacea," the 

 thick-billed Guillemot '' Cepphus arra," and the marbled Guillemot "Cepphus 

 perdix." "Cepphus lomvia," Pallas, equals "Uria lonivia," Briinnich, equals 

 " Colymbus" troile, Linnaeus. As in 1769, Dr. Pallas calls the Guillemots all 

 " Cepphus;" all the other Auks are consigned to " Uria" except the Puffins, for 

 which the generic najne " Lunda " (after Gesner) is employed. Alca psittacula 

 is ranged in this genus. (Species now twenty-one.) 



(1811.) Illiger, Prodromus. — Genus Mormon instituted for the Puffins. 



(1816.) ViEiLLOT, Analyse. — Genus Mergulus (after Ray) adopted for Alcaalle 

 Linn. Genus Larva instituted for the Puffins. Genus Alca " Linn." adopted 

 i^v cristatclla. 



(1818.) Transactions of the Linmvnn Society, xii. — Sabine re-names the thick- 

 billed Guillemot, as " Uria Briinnichii ;" Leach, a few pages further on, bestows 

 another name on the same bird, — " Uria Francsii." 



(1819.) Merrem. — Genus Simorhynchus instituted, yvhh Alca cristatellaFnUas, 

 as type. (Fide G. R. Gray.) 



1868.] 




b PROCEEDINGS OF TPIE ACADEMY OF 



(1820.) Temminck, Man. Orn., ii. — Genus Phahris instituted, witli psillacula 

 Pall, as type ; containing this species and crktatella Pall. 



(1821.) Naumann, Isis, p. 779, pi. 7. — The three known species of Fraiercula 

 ("Mormon," 111.) are reviewed, with figures of the heads. A fourth species, 

 Mormon corniculatum, is added. (Species now twenty-two.) 



(1823.) LiCHTENSTEiN, Verzeichniss, etc. — Alca camlsch&tica Lepechen is re- 

 named " Mormon superciliosum." A certain " Uria Mandtii " is established, 

 which is frequently quoted as a synonym of Uria coluiiiba, but appears to be 

 rather an imperfect state of plumage oi yrylle. 



(1824-5.) Stephens. Continuation of Shaw's Gen. Zool., xii., xiii.— The species 

 of the sub-family Urinic are all included in the genus Uria ; the type of the 

 genus — grylle — is re-named " scapularis." Phaleris Temm. is adopted for the 

 Starikis, comprehending p.?//?(/f?</rt, tetracnla, cristatclla and " pygnifea," the 

 latter being the same as Gmelin's species of that name. Fratercula Briss. is 

 adopted for the Puffins, though SynthUborumphus antiquns is included in the 

 same genus. F. glacialis Leach appears.* Ray's specific name for Mergulus 

 alle — melanoleucus— is adopted. Utamania n. g.,-j- based upon A. torda, is in- 

 stituted ; Alca " pica " is also ranged under it as a valid species, — making its 

 last appearance upon the ornithological stage. (Species now twenty-three.) 



(1827.) Bonaparte, Zoological Journal, iii. — Alca monoccrata Pall., redes- 

 cribed as " Phaleris cerorhynca.'' 



(1828.) Bonaparte, Syn. Birds U. S. in Ann. Lye. Nat. Hist. N. Y. ii. — Alca 

 monocerata Pall, redescribed as " Cerorhinca occidentalis.'' In a foot note, 

 under head of " Phaleris cristatclla Temm.," Bonaparte quotes : "Alca cristatella 

 et pygniaea, crested or flat-billed Auk, Lath. syn. iii. pi. 95, fig. 4. Phaleris 

 cristatella PL Color. No. 200.]; Alca cristatella Vieill. Gal. Ois. p. 297." (!) 



(1828.) Vigors, Zooloyical Journal, iv. — " Uria brevirostris" named. This is 

 undoubtedly the young of a previously known species of Brachyrhamphus, but 

 has never been positively identified. It is usually regarded as the young B. 

 marmoraius. 



(1829.) EscHSCHOLTZ, Zoological Atlas. — Genus Chimerina instituted upon 

 Alca monocerata, Pall., and the species called " Chimerina cornuta." Genus 

 Ombria instituted upon Alca, psittacula, Pall., upon which Temminck had pre- 

 viously based his Phaleris. 



(1829.) Kaup. . — Genus Cyclorrhynchus instituted upon Alca /».s!7/«ci(?a 



Pall. (Fide G. R. Gray.) 



( ?) Temminck, Planches Coloriees. (No. 579). — "Uria" Wurmizusume des- 

 cribed and figured. (Species now twenty-four.) 



(1837 ) Brandt, Bull. Sc. Acad. Tmper. St. Petersburg, ii. — During the time 

 between the close of Dr. Pallas' labors and the appearance of Prof. Brandt's 

 paper there was a great deal of subdividing and re-arranging of the Alcidx, and 

 much sawing of the air in a variety of ways ; but, beyond the addition of three 

 species, nothing new or specially noteworthy was put forth. Prof. Brandt 

 originates a new classification of the Auks, (the first one which lays claim to 

 any truly scientific character), institutes several new genera, and describes four 

 new species, besides re-naming some others. 



The Auks are primarily divided into two " tribes," called " Pterorhiues " and 

 " Gymnorhines." Under the former are ranged the true Auks, the Guillemots, 

 and the Sea-dove ; the latter comprehends all the rest of the family. The cha- 

 racter is found in the feathering or nakedness of the nostrils. This scheme is 

 spoken of more at length further on, and therefore need not be here criticised. 



* This species must have been previously named elsewhere, since Naumann has it in 

 the Isis in 1821; perhaps in the Trans. Linn. Soc. of 1818, or thereabouts, 

 t Named in 1816. 

 t PI. Color. No. 200 represents camtschatica Lepechin, not cristatella Pallas. 



[Jan. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 7 



The new genera are numerous. Of these Brachijrhamphus, (type marmoratus^) 

 Lomvia, (type troile,) Synthllboramphus, (type antiqmis,) and Ptychoramphus, 

 (type aleuticus,) are all valid, and were much needed. On the contrary, Tylo- 

 rhamphus, (type cristatellus,) Ceratoblepharum, (type arctica,) and Gymnoblepha- 

 rum, (type cirrhata,) were not called for, being antedated respectively by Simo- 

 rhynchus Merrem, (1819,) Fraterculn Brisson, (1760,) and Lunda Pallas, (1811.) 



The founding of a subgenus, Apobapton, upon the type o^ Brachyrhamphus, is 

 out of order. In the choice of names for the two subdivisions of Uria the au- 

 thor is unfortunate in taking the specific designation of the types of these ge- 

 nera, particularly in the case of Lomvia, which must stand for the genus of 

 which troile is typical, necessitating a change in the specific appellation of one 

 species of that genus, whose synonymy was already overburdened. 



The four new species are Phaleris microceros, Brachyrhamphus Wrangelii, B. 

 brarhypterus, and B. KittUtzii. Of the three last, Wrangelii is only to-day iden- 

 tified ; the other two remain unknown, except by Brandt's description. Brachyp- 

 terus is said to have the tarsi longer than the middle toe, which distinguishes 

 it from all the known species of the genus. KittUtzii is evidently a young bird, 

 and probably not a valid species. It is very near Uria brevirostris, Vigors, if 

 not the same, and may be the young either of marmoratus or Wrangelii. The 

 present monograph does not recognize it as valid, leaving only three really 

 new species to be attributed to Brandt's paper. 



Brandt identifies and retains Uria dubia Pall, under name of Phaleris dubius ; 

 AIca pygmsea Gm. as Uria pusilla Pall., under name of Phaleris pygm»a. Uria 

 Wurmizusume Temm., PI. Color. 579, is renamed Braehyrhamphus [Si/nihlibo- 

 ramphus) Temminckii. Alca monoccrata Pall, is renamed Cerorhina " orientalis," 

 probably through a lapsus calami for occidentalis Bp. (Species now twenty- 

 seven.) 



(1836.) BoMAPARTE, Geographical and Comparative List. — Phaleris microceros 

 Brandt is renamed as Phaleris " nodirostra." 



(1839.) Vigors, Zool. Voy. Blossom. — Alca antiqua Gm, is renamed as "Mer- 

 gulus cirrhocephalus." 



(1839.) Audubon, Orn. Biog. v. — Colymbus marmoratus Gm. is renamed 

 " Uria Townsendii." Audubon's figure of the supposed adult bird may be 

 really Brachyrhamphus Wrangelii Brandt. His figure of the supposed young is 

 really the adult B. marmoratus. 



(1845.) Gambel, Proc. Acad. Kat. Sc. Phila. — Uria aleutica Pall, is renamed 

 as "Mergulus Cassinii." 



(1849.) Gray and JIitchell, Genera of Birds, iii. — A great blemish is the 

 inclusion of the Penguins as a subfamily of the AlcidiP, coming in between the 

 Starikis and the ;\Iurres. Otherwise the arrangement here adopted of the Al- 

 cidse is as faultless as any ever proposed. Three subfamilies are recognized : 

 Alcinie for the true Auks and the Puffins ; Phaleridince for the Starikis ; and 

 VrincB, for the Guillemots. (This arrangement is noticed further on in con- 

 nection with Prof. Brandt's paper, under head of the general characters of the 

 family). Fratercula Briss. is adopted for the Pufiins ; Phaleris Temm. for all 

 the Starikis, except Alca monocerata Pall., for which Cerorhina Bp. is used; 

 Brachyrhamphus Brandt, in the same acceptation as used by its founder ; Uria 

 Briss. for the Guillemots ; and Arctica Moehring, for the Sea-doves. Under the 

 head of the latter, besides alle, are ranged cirrocephalus. Vigors, and Cassinii, 

 Gambel, with the exception of which, the lists of species are very accurate 

 and very full. Alca pygma?a Gmel. is identified with Viia, pusilla Pallas; 

 Uria Mandtii Licht. is used for Cepphus columba Pallas. 



(1851.) Bonaparte, Proc. Zool. Soc. London. — A new genus and species 

 described — Sagmatorrhina Lathami, with which Alca labradoria Gm, is 

 identified. (Species now twenty-eight.) 



(1856.) Bonaparte, Comptes Eendus, xlii. — That portion of the Tableau 



1868,] 




8 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



Comparatif des Pelagiens which regards the Auks represents very nearly the 

 classification now most in vogue, founded by Mr. G. R. Gray. The family is 

 divided into three subfamilies— ^4^cma?, embracing only two species; Phaleridince, 

 comprising all the Starikis ; and Urinse, inclad'ing the Guillemots. It is thus 

 the same as Gray's arrangement, except in excluding the Penguins ; but in its 

 minor details it is unique in several features. The genus Pinguinus^ Bonna- 

 terre, is adopted, and Alca left for torda. Simorhi/nchus, Merrem, is taken for 

 its type, {oris tat ellus) and Phaleris, Temminck, for its type, [psittacnla ;) the 

 other small Phaleridines are ranged under Tiilorhamphus Brandt, except micro- 

 ceros, which is put under Ciceronia, Reichenbach. Ifria is subdivided into 

 Lomvia Brandt for the larger species, and " Cephus " Pallas for the smaller 

 ones. Most of these points are tenable, but some are not. Some very obvious 

 improprieties are evident in the handling of the species. Thus Bonaparte in- 

 sists on retaining " occidentalis " and " nodirostra," two names of his own 

 that he knew were antedated, one by monocerata Pallas, and the other by 

 microceros, Brandt. Uria columba is ranged as a synomym of grylle, while 

 Mandtii is allowed to take its place. The Uria "unicolor" Benicken, 

 which, according to the best authority, is only a state of plumage of grylle^ 

 is given as a valid species, and referred to a different subgenus. In this 

 paper, as in others M'ritten towards the close of the life of the great ornithol- 

 Qo-ist, may be discerned an inclination to lead opinion by the mere weight of a 

 name, or force of personal authority. 



(1858.) Cassin, in Baird s Birds of North America. — Bonaparte's article just 

 spoken of is made the basis, in a general way, of Mr. Cassin's paper, but with 

 some important modifications. Only two subfamilies are admitted, Alcinx and 

 Urinie, the former comprehending the Auks proper and the Starikis. Chenalo- 

 pez Moehring is used as a subgeneric appellation for Alca impennis. Mormon 

 lUiger is used for the Puffins, with Lunda Pall, and Fratercula Briss. as sub- 

 generic divisions. Fhaleris Temm. is employed generically for the majority of 

 the Phaleridine forms, with Simorhynchus Merrem, Tylorhamphus Brandt, and 

 Ciceronia Reichenbach, as subgeneric divisions. The erroneous assignment of 

 Tylorhamphus is the same as that made by Bonaparte. The forms not included 

 under Fhaleris are each given independent generic rank. A new species of 

 Cerorhina is described — C. Suckleyi — for a discussion of which the reader is re- 

 ferred further on. Among the Urince, the genus Uria Moehring is subdivided, 

 after Keyserling and Blasius, into two subgenera — Uria proper and Cataructes 

 Moehring. Brachyrhamphus Brandt is adopted for the Murrelets,* with Apobap- 

 ton Brandt as a subgenus. 



This article treats of all the known species of the family, and is, in fact, a 

 monograph of the subject, at once very accurate, and, as far as it goes, com- 

 plete. Excellent descriptions, in most cases original, are given, together with 

 many synonyms, lists of specimens in the museum of the Smithsonian Insti- 

 tution and Philadelphia Academj', and critical and explanatory remarks. 

 Although the present writer does not endorse all of the opinions maintained 

 in this article, he considers it as by far the best that has ever appeared in 

 print. (Species now twenty-nine.) . 



(1859.) Xantus, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sc. Phila. — Brachyrhamphus hypoleucus, 

 a new species, described. (Species now thirty.) 



(1861.) Bryant, Pvoc. Bost. Soc. Nat. Hist. — " A monograph of the genus 

 Cataracles Moehring," with full lists of synonyms, and very accurate descrip- 

 tions. The family is named " Plautidie " after Klein. The genus is considered 

 in its restricted sense, including only troile Linn., ringvia Briinn., and lomvia 

 Linn., to which a new species, U. Californicus, is added. This is a very valua- 

 ble contribution. (Species now thirty-one.) 



* The present writer proposes this English name for the species of Brachyrhamphus. 



[Jan. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 9 



(1862.) Newton, Ibis, Oct. From among the many contributions to the 

 Natural History of the Great Auk, this admirable paper is selected for special 

 mention, both as embodying about all that was known upon the subject pre- 

 vious to its publication, and as containing the results of the diligent and care- 

 ful researches of the author and Mr. J. Wolley, in Iceland. It is probably the 

 best article upon the subject extant ; to which the reader may refer in full 

 confidence that he will find an epitome of our present knowledge. Mr. New- 

 ton is of opinion that the Great Auk may still live. He attributes the extinc- 

 tion to which it is surely doomed, mainly to direct human interference. The 

 paper is again referred to, and quoted, in the present memoir. 



(1867.) ScHLEGEL, Catalogue of the 3Iuseum of the Pai/s-Bas, livraison ix. 

 The article " Alca " is in one sense nearly a monograph of the subject, since 

 the greater part of the species of the family are represented in the Museum of 

 the Pays-Bas, and therefore admitted as valid by the author. Unfortunately, 

 however, the author's ultra-conservatism, on matters specific as well as 

 generic, does not allow him to keep pace with the progress of science, and as 

 a consequence, his system of nomenclature and classification is simply curious. 

 One seeks in vain to divine the reason for the maintenance and expression of 

 such peculiar views, unless it be the author's intention to administer a sort of 

 counter-irritant as a remedy against Brehmomania, or to launch a severe 

 satire against the "furor genericus," and other crying evils of the day. Such 

 extreme views, if discreetly indulged for either of the charitable purposes just 

 suggested, are perhaps excusable ; the only question is, whether the remedy is 

 not worse than the disease. 



Aside from its value as a Museum Catalogue, the present article is chiefly 

 useful for its accurate indications of different stages of plumage, of differences 

 in dimensions of variable species, and as affording soiue interesting data in 

 the way of locality. The " genus Alca " is made to hold all iho, Alchife and 

 all the Urinx. The Starikis appear under the genus Shtwrhynchus ; the Puffins 

 under Lunda. It is impossible to subject this arrangement to criticism, since 

 in it there is nothing approaching a classification, and arbitrary illogical 

 opinion is not to be brought under critical review. The common Guillemot 

 appears as " Alca lomvia," though no point of synomymy is more incontestible 

 than that its proper specific name is troile. Ringvia is considered as a variety 

 of the same. Uria columba is not regarded as valid, apparently because the 

 wing-patch of Uria grylle is well known to vary in its characters. Alca 

 pygmwa Gm., Una pusilla Pall, and Phaleris viicroceros are thrown together 

 under the common name of " Simorhynchus pygmseus." Alca ietraciila Pall., 

 and Uria duMa Pall., are both regarded as the young of cristatcUm. Sagnia- 

 torrhina Lathami, Bonaparte, and Ccrorhina Suckleyi, Cassin, are both referred 

 to Alca monocerata, Pallas. Mormon glacialis Leach is not recognized. The 

 Brachyrhamphi are not included ; but the highly characteristic remark occurs, 

 (p. 21) "11 convient d'etudierde rechef les oiseaux decrits sous les epithetes 

 de Kittlitzii, Wrangeli et brachyptera, et meme I'Alca marmorata " ! 



(1867.) JSalvadori, Descr. All. Nuov. Ucc. Mits. di Torino.— Uria Craveri 

 described. This a new Brachyrharnphus from California, closely allied to B. 

 hypoleucus. (Species now thirty-two.) 



Of the thirty-two species noted in the preceding paragraphs, and held to be 

 valid, twenty-eight are contained in the various American collections to which 

 the writer has had access, and are in the present paper identified and described 

 directly from the specimens themselves. The four species not examined are : 

 "Uria" dubia Pallas; Brachyramphus brachypterus Brandt; Sagmatorrhina 

 Zff?Ar77«2 Bonaparte ; and " Uria" Craveri Salvadori. Of the two last the writer 

 has received some information through private channels, beyond that con- 

 tained in the published papers ; of the two first he knows nothing, except from 

 the original descriptions. 



1868.] 




10 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



A new and very curious species of Simorhynchus is described in the following 

 pages, making a total of thirty-three. 



II. Of the characters of the Family, and its sub-divisions. 



The Auks form a very natural family of birds, distinguished by marked and 

 unmistakable characters from any other. With a single exception,* there is 

 no bird found to present in any notable degree a leaning towards the pecu- 

 liarities of the Alcidm ; and the members of the family, without exception, pre- 

 serve intact those characters which define the group so trenchantly, showing 

 in no single instance a tendency to aberration. The rigidness with which it is 

 possible to circumscribe the Alcidm is in the highest degree satisfactory, in a 

 class of animals in which the recognition and definition of subordinate groups 

 is peculiarly difficult. 



The natural place of the family in our ornithotaxis appears as definite as the 

 characters which separate its forms from other birds. By common consent, 

 iheAlcidfe are regarded as next to the lowest of birds. The degradation of the 

 type or ideal bird which the Auks represent is only carried further in one 

 family — the Spheniscidse. From the latter, which is at the bottom of the scale, 

 we ascend one step to Alcidse ; another brings us to the Colymbidse and Podici- 

 pidse. These four families constitute the order Pyyopndes, or the Brachypterous 

 Natatores. The position occupied by the Auks in this order is so evident as 

 not to admit of question. 



It is only necessary to allude to the wings of the Spheniscidx, without dwell- 

 ing upon the point, to separate this family from the Auks. The tetradactylous 

 feet of the other two families distinguish them with equal facility. Auks are 

 brachypterous, brachyurous, tridactylous natatores, with lateral nostrils. This 

 expression is a perfect diagnosis. 



The Auks are confined to the northern hemisphere. Some representatives 

 have been found as far north as explorers have penetrated. The great major- 

 ity live in more temperate latitudes. A more or less complete migration takes 

 place with most species, which stray southward, sometimes to a considerable 

 distance, in the autumn, and return north again to breed in the spring. A few 

 species appear nearly stationary. The most southern recorded habitat of anj' 

 member of the family is about latitude 21° N., on the Pacific coast of North 

 America, but this is rather exceptional. The species are very unequally divided 

 between the two oceans. The Atlantic has but few representatives compared 

 with the Pacific. On the northern coasts of the latter the family reaches its 

 highest developement ; the greatest number of species, of the most diversified 

 forms, are found there, though the number of individuals of any species does 

 not surpass that of several Atlantic species. Comparatively few species are 

 common to both oceans. All the members of the familj^ are exclusively ma- 

 rine. f They are decidedly gregarious, particularly in the breeding season, 

 when some species congregate in countless numbers. Usually one, often two, 

 rarely if ever three eggs are laid, either upon the bare rock or ground, or in 

 crevices between or under rocks, or in burrows excavated for the purpose. 

 Auks are all altrices, and are believed to be chiefly monogamous. The young 

 are at first covered with long soft wooly down ; rarely stiffish hairs appear on 

 some parts. The moult is double. The young of the year usuall}' differ from 

 the adults; the latter usually differ in their summer and winter plumages. A 

 very prevalent feature is the possession of crests or plumes, or elongated fea- 

 thers of a peculiar shape on the sides of the head. All the species walk badly ; 

 some scarcely walk at all. The position of the legs with reference to the axis 

 of the body necessitates an upright position when standing. The birds appear 

 to rest on their rumps, with the feet extended horizontally before them, most 



* The genus Pel'canoidea, of the Halndrnminse ( Prncellariidai), in all details of external 

 form, except those of the bill, is essentially like Merrjidus. 



t Uria grylle is found on the southern shores of Hudson's Bay; but this fact can hardly 

 furnish an exception to the statement. 



[Jan. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 11 



of the tarsus touching the ground. The Puffins, however, and a few others, 

 stand well on their feet. All the species but one, fly well, with rapid vigorous 

 motion of the wings, in a straight, firm, well-sustained course. AH progress 

 on or under the water with the utmost facility. They are very silent birds; 

 the voice is rough and harsh ; the notes are monotoned. They feed exclusively 

 upon animal substances procured from the water. 



The uniformity of structure which obtains throughout the family has already 

 been mentioned ; the following paragraphs describe this structure in a general 

 way, so far as the details of external form are concerned :* 



The general form is stout, compact and heavy. The body is depressed, flat- 

 tened underneath. The neck is short and thick. The head is large and heavy, 

 usually oval in shape, more or less flattened laterally, more or less drawn out 

 anteriorly, and sloping gradually on all sides to the bill, but sometimes ending 

 abruptly. The plumage about the head is very soft, dense, and short, except 

 those feathers which constitute the peculiar crest or lateral plumes already 

 mentioned. That of the upper parts is very closely imbricated ; that of the 

 lower is very thick, compact, elastic, and otherwise eminently fitted to resist 

 the action of water. -(- 



The bill, though constantly preserving certain characteristics, varies to a 

 remarkable degree in the details of its shape. The broad statement may be 

 made, that no two speciesj of the family have bills identical in shape. So un- 

 ending is the variation in the bill, that in some cases great differences in shape 

 seem of scarcely more than specific consequence, as is especially the case in 

 the genus Shnorhynchus. The bill in the great majority of species is more or 

 less compressed, sometimes excessively so ; it is frequently, however, nearly as 

 wide as high at the base, and more or less subulate. The contour of the bill 

 in many instances deviates from an ordinary standard so much that the shape 

 may almost be called monstrous. A striking peculiarity of the bill in several 

 genera is the presence of supernumerary elements or accessory pieces, taking 

 the form of salient protuberances. These are usually developed on the culmen ; 

 in one instance on the gonys ; in one at the angle of the rictus; in several 

 along the feathered base of the bill. Besides these appendages, there are often 

 found grooves and ridges on the sides of one or both mandibles. The culmen 

 is always more or less convex ; in one instance it is bi-convex. The tomial 

 edges of the mandibles are more or less sinuate; sometimes nearly straight ; 

 usually decurved at the tip, and slightly notched ; in one instance recurved. 

 The rictus is ample. § The mandibular rami approach each other with a very 

 narrow angle, and soon join, producing a long gonys, which is usually nearly 

 straight. One gentis has a very convex gonj-s ; in two others the gonys runs 

 the whole length of the bill, there being no mandibular rami proper. The bill 

 is entirely horny, except in two species, in which a sott membrane overlaps the 

 base of the upper mandible ; and in a third, where a peculiar knob is not 

 strictly corneous. 



Tiie nostrils are basal, lateral, marginal, impervious; usually linear, or nar- 

 rowly oval ; in a feAV instances placed further from the commissural edge of 

 the upper mandible, and nearly circular. The nasal foss<e are usually very 

 evident ; are sometimes hidden by feathers ; at others are wholly wanting. 

 The extension of the feathers into the nasal fossie varies in degree, when it 

 occurs. In just about half the species the nostrils are naked ; these usually 

 have no true nasal fossae. In the other half fossa; occur ; entirely obtected by 

 feathers in three genera ; partially covered in the rest. The significance of 

 these features will receive further attention below. 



* The writer hopes to bring forward, at some future time, a memoir on the anatomy of 

 the family. 



+ Cf. Nitzsch's Pterylography for pterylosis of Utamania tarda. 



lis tVia rin^riuo specifically distinct from U.lroiUf 



g In two genera, in whioh the excessive compression of the bill produces a very con- 

 stricted rictus, its amplification is pi'ovided for by means of a dilatable skin at the angle 

 of the mouth. 



1868.] 




12 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



The wings are short. In no instance do thej', when folded, reach to the end 

 of the tail. In one species they are so undeveloped in their terminal segments* 

 that the power of flight is abrogated. The first primary is always longest; the 

 rest rapidly and regularly graduated ; all taper to a sufficiently fine point. The 

 secondaries are very short, and broadly rounded. The primary coverts are 

 very long, reaching much more than half-way from the carpus to the end of 

 the first primary. The first row of secondary coverts reach nearly to the end 

 of the secondaries. The under wing coverts are very long. The axillars are 

 short or wanting. The wing as a whole is convex above, concave below, nar- 

 row, sharp, stiff, somewhat falcate. These points of structure are constant 

 throughout the family. 



The tail is very short ; its length is contained, on an average, about three 

 times in the length of wing from the carpal joint. It is usually slightly round- 

 ed, sometimes nearly square, in a few instances pointed ; in a few more the 

 central rectrices are slightly shorter than the next pair. The individual feathers 

 are usually very obtuse at the end. Both sets of coverts are long ; the inferior 

 usually reach nearly or quite to the end of the tail. 



The feet are small, and placed far back, as has been said. The thighs are 

 contained within the general skin of the body. The legs are feathered nearly 

 or quite to the tibio-tarsal joint. The tarsus is short, sometimes excessively 

 abbreviated, rarely equal to the middle toe without its claw, never (?f ) longer. 

 It is usually much compressed, is sometimes almost as sharp as that of Coh/m- 

 1)UH, is frequently nearly as broad laterally as antero-posteriorly. Its covering 

 varies with different genera. It is usually reticulate behind and laterally, with 

 a row of scutellai in front, which rarely, however, if ever, extend its whole 

 length. In some genera it is entirely reticulate ; in others, the scutellation 

 extends on one or both sides. The tarsal envelope varies so much that it is 

 not available as a character for subdivisions higher than generic. The toes 

 are very long; the outer and middle always of nearly the same length ; the 

 inner shorter, its claw just reaching the base of the middle claw. There is no 

 hind toe. Dissection reveals the rudiment of a hallux, wiiich, however, is never 

 developed sufficiently to make even a well-marked prominence. The webbing 

 of the toes is complete. The claws are all moderately arched, compressed and 

 acute ; the inner edge of the middle is more or less dilated ; the middle is al- 

 ways the largest, except in two genera, which present the peculiarity of having 

 a very large semi-circular inner lateral claw, which, moreover, lies horizon- 

 tally instead of vertically. 



That rigid adherence to the type of structure just described which all the 

 species maintain, while facilitating the recognition of the family as a family, is 

 a serious obstacle in the way of defining its subdivisions with precision. With 

 no very abrupt transition from one form to another, and without any very 

 marked modification of general features, the minor groups seem to be formed 

 mainly by the varying combination of the few differences in structure which 

 obtain in the family. The assemblage of characters, rather than the presence 

 or absence of particular features, in most cases determines the genera ; and no 

 two species are absolutely alike in all points of form. 



" Facies non omnibus una. 



Nee diversa tamen, quails decet esse sororum." 



In one of the ablest papers that has appeared upon this subject. Professor 

 Brandt divides the Alcidx into two subfamilies: those with feathered, and 

 those with naked nostrils. In this arrangement the Guillemots stand next to 

 the typical Auk — A. torda. Viewed from any other standpoint the two forms 



* Cf. Mr. A. Newton's article in the "Ibis" for October, 18(i2. As there stated, the hu- 

 merus oi Alca impe.nnis is of normal size; the antibrachium, carpus and metacarpus, and 

 their quills, are shortened. 



^ Brack yrhampJius bracht/pterus is said by Brandt to have the tarsus longer tlian the middle 

 toe. 



[Jan. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 13 



appear to represent the extremes of structure in the family; particularly in 

 regard to the bill, cultriform in one, subulate in the other The two types are 

 by most authors placed at opposite ends of the generic chain, and separated 

 by all the Starikis. Attentive consideration of all the bearings of the case 

 may verj- likely result in the opinion, hold by tlie present v.'riter, that the dif- 

 ference between the views of Prof. Brandt and other writers is rather apparent 

 than real. It should be borne in mind tliat the Alcidie are a family very rigid- 

 ly circumscribed, and one sliowiug no tendency to aberration, or to connect 

 itself intimately with the families standing next to it on either side. Whether as 

 cause or consequence of this, the fact is indisputable, that the genera of Alcidie 

 are not strung along in a chain whose ends seem as it were to be linked with 

 the genera of other families ; they tend, on the contrary, to aggregation in a 

 circle about a common centre. We may take any genus — -it matters not 

 which — we shall find its closest ally to the right and to the left; and the cir- 

 cuit shall be complete when all the genera have been considered. To illustrate 

 this point : Prof Brandt, like all other writers, takes the typical Alc.a as his 

 starting point. With the feathering of the nostrils as a fundamental feature, 

 Uria and its subdivisions must come next, tlien Brach;/rhamphus ; this leading 

 through Mergulis into the true Phaleridines, hy means of Plychoramphiis. Be- 

 ginning with those Phaleridines with the simplest bills, he progresses to those 

 with more complex bills, ending with Ombria^ which last, through Cerorhimt^ 

 conducts to Fraie/-cula, which ends the series. There is nothing strained or 

 forced in this ; the succession of the genera is perfectly natural. But it so 

 happens that Fratercula is as closely, or even more closely, allied to Alca pro- 

 per than Uria is. We cannot disturb in any essential degree the generic series 

 of Prof. Brandt, but we could with entire propriety go directly from Alcn to 

 Fratercula, and thence backwards over the same track, ending with Uria, 

 which would then be at the opposite extreme of the scries. It is asserted, 

 without fear of reasonable contradiction, that to begin anywhere in tiiis natural 

 series of genera and progress through it, is to be brought back to tlic starting 

 point 



It is not, perhaps, possible to divide this generic circle witliout the exercise 

 of some arbitrary jurisdiction. If there be included in it two or more sub- 

 families capable of precise definition, the fact has eluded the writer's research. 

 There are, however, in the series two places where a dividing line may be 

 drawn. Prof Brandt drew but one, relying u])on the single character which he 

 found to apply so well, albeit it may be an arbitrary one. Other writers have 

 made likewise but two subfamilies, difFerently framed however; the Alcinie, in- 

 cluding the true Auks, together with the Phaleridine forms, united because of 

 their short, stout, high bills ; and the Urinx, separated on the ground of their 

 long, slender subulate bills. Others again, particularly Mr. G. R. Gray and 

 Prince Bonaparte, have drawn two lines, recognizing three subfamilies : and 

 this course appears to be the one that holds closest to nature, provided the 

 family be really susceptible of subdivisions higher than generic. By simply 

 reducing Prof Brandt's fundamental character to the level of one drawn from 

 the general structure of the bill, three subfamilies stand forth with tolerable 

 distinctness. The Alcinie have feathered nostrils and cultriform bills ; the 

 Phaleridinee, naked nostrils and cultriform bills; the Urinaa, feathered nostrils 

 and subulate bills. This certainly appears to be a distinction with a difference, 

 and will be so held in the present paper. 



The arrangement of the Alcidos here submitted is a modification of Professor 

 Brandt's, providing for the recognition of three in place of two subfamilies. 

 In this particular it is substantially the same as Mr. Gray's, but the sequence 

 of the genera is entirely different, and is nearly that of the first mentioned 

 author. Beginning with typical Alca it passes to Fratercula, and ends with 

 Lomvia, instead of passing to Lomvia and ending with Fratercula. But in 

 either case the collocation of the genera is essentially the same. It is believed 



1868.] 




14 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



that this sequence of gesera cannot be broken in upon to any considerable 

 degree, witliout the rupture of a natural series as a consequence. 



Family ALCID^K 

 Ch. — Tridactylous, brachypterous, bracbyurous Natatores, with lateral 

 nostrils. 



A. — Subfamily Alcin^. — Not crested; with feathered nostrils; compressed 

 cultriform bill, much higher than wide at base, without appendages, but 

 grooved on the sides ; tail pointed. 



1. Alca. — Wings rudimental, not admitting of flight. 



2. Ulamania. — Wings fully developed, admitting of flight. 



B. — Subfamily PHALERiDiNyE. — Usually crested, or with elongated feathers 

 on head ; with naked nostrils ; bill variable, always compressed, higher than 

 wide at the base, often with appendages ; tail nearly even. 



3. Fratercula. — Inner lateral claw very large, semi-circular, acute, hori- 

 zontal; bill excessively thin, its base ridged, its culmeu simple, with one 

 curve ; under mandible grooved ; no crest; palpebral appendages ; a furrow 

 in plumage behind eyes ; tarsi anteriorly scutellate. 



4. Limda. — As in Fratercula ; culmen with an acf essory piece, and two 

 curves ; under mandible smooth ; long crests ; no furrow in plumage ; no 

 palpebral appendages. 



5. Ceratorhyncha. — Inner lateral claw normal ; bill without a basal rim ; 

 base of upper mandible with a prominent upright horn ; rami of lower man- 

 dible with an accessory piece ; head with elongated feathers ; tarsus ante- 

 riorly scutellate. 



6. Sagniatorrhina. — Base of upper mandible overlapped by a soft mem- 

 brane ; no accessory piece on lower mandible ; otherwise as in Ceratorhyncha. 



I. Simorkynchus. — Bill variable, usually with irregular outline or with 

 appendages : head with a crest or elongate feathers ; tarsi reticulate. 



8. Ft.ychorhamphi/,i. — Bill stout, conico-elongate, wide at base, acute at tip ; 

 base of upper mandible with transverse stria; ; upper border of nostrils 

 dilated, flaring ; no crests. 



C. — Subfamily Urin^e. — Nostrils more or less completely feathered; bill 

 elongated, more or less slender and subulate, without appendages or vertical 

 grooves ; head not crested, (except in one species.) 



9. Mergulus. — Nostrils nearly circular, not completely feathered ; bill 

 stoutest and shortest in this section ; tail much graduated ; tarsi scarcely 

 compressed, anteriorly broadly scutellate. 



10. Synthliborhamphus. — Nostrils broadly oval, incompletely feathered ; bill 

 stoutish, but much compressed ; tail nearly even ; tarsi excessively com- 

 pressed, anteriorly and internally scutellate. 



II. Brachyrhaviphus. — Nostrils oval, feathered ; bill small, very slender; 

 tail short, little graduated ; tarsi reticulate, very small and slender, not 

 compressed. 



12. Urut. — Bill about equal to tarsus ; gonys half the culmen ; nasal fossje 

 wide and deep, not entirely' filled with feathers ; upper mandible with no 

 groove at tip ; outer lateral claw grooved ; tail contained 2j times in the 

 wing ; tarsi reticulate ; no furrow in plumage of head. 



13. Lomvia. — Bill much longer than tarsus ; gonj^s much more than half 

 the culmen; nasal fossre long and narrow, comjjletely feathered; upper 

 mandible with a groove at tip; outer lateral claw smooth ; tail contained 

 3f times in wing; tarsi anteriorly scutellate ; a furrow in plumage behind 

 the eyes. 



[Jan. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 15 



III. — Descriptions of Genera and Species. 



1. Subfamily Alcin^e. 



ALCA, Linnseus, 



Chenalopex, Moehring, Ar. Gen. 1752, p. 65, No. 68. 

 .4/ra, Linnasus, Syst. Nat. i. 17."i8 ; and of authors. 

 ringuinus, Bonnatei-re, Ency. Method. Orn. 1790, p. 28. 



Size largest in the family. Form heavy, compact, robust. Head large, 

 ovate, produced forwards. Neclv moderately long, thick. Wings morpho- 

 logically perfect, teleologically rudimental, not admitting of flight, in length 

 from carpal joint to end of longest primary scarcely twice as long as tail ; when 

 folded not reaching the tail. Tail short, pointed. Legs short and stout. 

 Webs broad and full. Tarsi compressed ; their anterior ridge and superior 

 surfaces of toes scutellate, lateral and posterior aspects reticulate, the plates 

 on the latter very small. Tibiaj feathered nearly to the joint. Bill about as 

 long as the head, large, strong, very deep, exceedingly compressed. Upper 

 mandible with culmen about straight for half its length, then regularly con- 

 vex, tip obtuse, declinate, scarcely overhanging; a deep groove on its side at 

 base, parallel with the outline of feathers ; its side then perfectly smooth for a 

 space, then deeply impressed with six to ten oblique curved sulci. Gape very 

 large, running far back ; line of commissure nearly following that of culmen. 

 Eniinentia symphysis slight ; gonys nearly straight. Lower mandible two- 

 thirds as deep as upper, its sides impressed with six to ten straight, vertical 

 sulci. Feathers about base of mandibles short, very compact : extending 

 downwards from base of culmen, a little forwards, to commissural edge of 

 upper mandible ; reaching much further on sides of lower mandible ; wholly 

 covering the moderately long, very narrowly linear, impervious nostrils, which 

 are situated just above the commissure. 



It is unnecessary to compare this genus with any other. Utainania, most 

 closely allied, is at once distinguished by its teleologically perfect wings, 

 though nearly identical with Alca in other points of structure. The only 

 known representative of the genus is remarkable, both for its large size, and 

 for not possessing the power of flight, in consequence of which it may be said 

 to represent, in the Northern Hemisphere, the numerous Penguins of the 

 Southern. By many ornithologists it is believed to have very recently become 

 nearly or quite extinct. 



Rigid adherence to the law of priority would necessitate the use of a differ- 

 ent name for this genus. "Alca" was first applied by Linnajus, in 1744, to the 

 genus of which the bird now called Fratercula or Mormon arcticus is typical ; 

 and even as used by LinniBus in 1758 it has torda as its recognized type, ac- 

 cording to that rule which regards the species first mentioned as type, when 

 none is otherwise indicated ; so that it cannot, with strict propriety, be used 

 at all in this connection. But the name has become so firmly established by 

 common consent and long usage, that it would be ruthless, as well as profit- 

 less, to attempt its supercedure by Chenalopex of Moehring, 1752 ; particularly 

 as this latter word has come into extensive employ for an Anserine genus. 

 The genus Alca, as framed by Linnwns in 1758, included both torda and im- 

 pennis : and when restricted, by the generic separation of these two types, there 

 seems no good reason why the first mentioned should be regarded as more 

 peculiarly typical of the genus than the last. Should Alca be reserved for 

 Fratercula arctica, or for Utamania torda, it will be apparent that numerous un- 

 warrantable innovations necessarily follow; while its employ in connection 

 with impennis entails no such consequences. 



Alca impenxis Linn. 

 Chenalopex, Moehring, Av. Gen. 1752, p. 65, No. 68. "Rostrum conoides, 

 conuexum, ad latera compressum, aliquot sulcis transuersis canalicula- 



1868.] 




16 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



turn," etc. Quotes Anser magellanieus^ Clus. Worm. Rail, Will. Orn. 242, 

 and Alex species, Linn. ed. vi, gen. 52. 

 Alca (Chenalopex) irnpennis, Cassin, Baird's B. N. A. 1858, p. 900. 

 Mergus americatius, " Charleton, Onom. Zoic. p. 96, No. 10." "^ieremb. Exot. 



lib. 10, c. 2T," fide DonndorfF. Not Mergus americanus Cassin, 1853. 

 Alca i/uijor, Brisson, Ornithologia, vi, 17G0, p. 85, pi. 7. 



Alca ifnpennis, Linnajus, S. N. ed. X, 1758, p. 130, No. 2. Id. ibid. ed. xii, 1766, 

 p. 210, No. 2. Quotes Alca major Briss. and Mergus americanus Clus. Exot. 

 103. Briinnich, Orn. Bor. 1764, p. 26, No. 105. Gmelin, S. N. 1788, i, pt. 

 ii, p. 550, No. 3. Lath. Ind. Orn. ii. 1790, p. 791, No. 1. DonndorfF, Bey- 

 trage Zoologische, ii, pt. i, 1794, p. 817. Sander, Grosse u. Schonh. Natur. 

 i, p. 243. Hermann, Tab. Aff. Anim. p. 150. Temminck, Man. Orn. ii, 1820, 

 p. 939. Stephens, Shaw's Gen. Zool. xiii, 1825, p. 51. Bonaparte, Synop- 

 sis, 1828, p. 432. Audubon, Orn. Biogr. 1838, iv, p. 316. Brandt, Bull. 

 Acad. St. Petersb. ii, 1837, p. 345. Fleming, Hist. Brit. Anim. 1842, p. 129. 

 Gray, Genera Birds, iii, 1849, p. 037. Thompson, Nat. Hist. Ireland, 1851, iii, 

 p. 238. Macgillivray, Hist. Brit. Birds, 1852, ii, p. 359. Steenstrup, " Vi- 

 densk. Middell. for Aaret, 1855; Kjobenhavn, 1856 — 57, pp. 33 — 116." 



Newton, Ibis, 1862, p. , (Historical.) Schlegel, Urinatores Mus. Pays- 



Bas, livr. ix, 1867, p. 13. 

 Pinguinus impennis, Bonnaterre, Ency. Method. Orn. 1790, p. 29. Bonaparte, 

 Consp. Gav. Comptes Rendus, 1856, p. 774. 



Description (from the specimen in the Philada. Acad.) — The white spot be- 

 tween the eye and bill is ovate in shape, its upper border a little straightened, 

 its small end towards, but not quite reaching, the bill, its large end extending 

 to, but not around, the eye ; the width of the black space between it and its 

 fellow is rather more than half an inch. The back is dusky-black ; other dark- 

 colored parts with a good deal of clear brown, especially on the head. The 

 under parts, including the tail coverts, are white, this color running far up on 

 the front of the neck in a narrowly acute angle. The under wing coverts are 

 ashy-gray. The secondaries are narrowly but distinctly tipped with white. 

 The bill is deep black, its sulci dull white. The feet are dark, their precise 

 color at present undefinable. 



Dimcjisions. — "Length about 30 inches ;" wing 5-75 ; tail about 3-00; bill 

 along gape 4-25; chord of culmen 3-15; greatest width of bill -66; greatest 

 depth of upper mandible 1-00, of lower -66 ; tarsus 1-66 ; middle toe and claw 

 3-25 ; outer 3-00 ; inner 2-25. 



The occurrence of this species on the coast of North America has not been 

 authenticated of late years. Perhaps the last instance on record is that given 

 by Audubon on page 316 of the fourth volume of " Ornithological Biography." 

 "The only authentic account of the occurrence of this bird on our coast that I 

 possess, was obtained from Mr. Henry Havell, brother of my engraver, who, 

 when on his passage from New York to England, hooked a Great Auk on the 

 banks of Newfoundland, in extremely boisterous weather." This specimen was 

 not preserved. " When I was in Labrador," continues Audubon, " many of 

 the fishermen assured me that the ' Penguin,' as they name this bird, breeds on 

 a low rocky island to the south-east of Newfoundland." The present writer 

 received similar assurances when in Labrador in 1860 — the place designated 

 being the " Funks." Audubon also states that " an old gunner residing on 

 Chelsea Beach, near Boston, told me that he well remembered the time when 

 the penguins were plentiful about Nahant and some other islands in tlie Bay." 

 Two specimens only are known to exist in any American museum. One is 

 in the Philadelphia Academy ; its history is uncertain. The other, in the 

 Vassar College, at Poughkeepsie, N. Y., is the original of Audubon's plate and 

 description, as stated in the following note from Pi-of. Sanborn Tenny, favored 

 in reply to questions regarding it: "The Great Auk, presented to Vassar Col- 

 lege by J. P. Giraud, Jr., Esq., is in a perfect state of preservation. This spe- 

 cimen is the one from which Audubon made his drawing, and it was presented 



[Jan. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 17 



to Giraud by Audubon himself. Neither Giraud nor myself has further kuow- 

 ledge of it than what is contained in Audubon's -works.'' 



Concerning Mr. Audubon's specimen, Mr. Cassin remarks (B. N. A., p. 901), 

 that it was " obtained by him (Mr. A.) on the banks of Newfoundland ;" upon 

 which statement Mr. A. Newton (Ibis, Oct., 1862) observes: "In 1857 I was 

 assured by Mr. Bell, the well-known taxidermist at New York, who knew Mr. 

 Audubon intimately, that he never possessed but one specimen of this bird ; 

 and if we turn to Prof. MacGillivray's ' History of British Birds ' (vol. v. p. 359), 

 we find him saying that he never saw but two examples of the species, one in 

 the British Museum, and ' the other belonging to Mr. Audubon, and procured 

 by him in London.^ " This serves to throw some little light on the history of 

 the specimen now in the Vassar College, Poughkeepsie, N. Y. 



In the Annals and Magazine of Natural History for 1864, p. 235, is given, by 

 Mr. Robert Champley, "a list of the present possessors of the birds, skeletons 

 and eggs of the Alca impennis ;" this gentleman being cognizant of the exist- 

 ence of twenty-seven skins, six skeletons, and fifty-three eggs. Dr. G. Hart- 

 laub (Bericht iib. d. Leist. in d. Naturg. der Vogel for 18G4) remarks upon this 

 enumeration : " Es ist dieses Verzeichniss indessen sehr unvollstandig. So z. 

 B. geschicht des schonen Exemplares der Bremer Sammlung so wie des pracht- 

 vollen Ei's im Museum zu Oldenbung keine Erwahnung." Mr. A. Newton, 

 on the subject of existing specimens, has (1. c.) the following: "If all the 

 stories we received can be credited, the whole number M^ould reach eighty- 

 seven. I should imagine sixtj' to be about the real amount ;" and again : " It 

 is pretty evident that most of the specimens of the Great Auk and its eggs, 

 which now exist in collections, were obtained from Eldey between the years 

 1830 and 1844.* 



Two eggs are contained in the Philadelphia Academy's collection. 



Mr. Alfred Newton's paper in the "Ibis" for October, 1862, entitled "Ab- 

 stract of Mr. J. Wolley's Researches in Iceland respecting the Gare-Fowl or 

 Great Auk (Alca impennis, Linn.)," is exceedingly valuable, being one of the 

 most complete and satisfactory histories of the bird ever published; and may 

 be consulted with the greatest pleasure and profit. The writer is at special 

 pains to correct the very prevalent erroneous impression, that the Great Auk 

 is a bird of high latitudes. His researches warrant his belief that " the Gare- 

 fowl has probably never once occurred within the arctic circle." Mr. Selby's 

 statement (Brit. Orn., ii. p. 433) of its occurrence in Spitzbergen is shown to 

 be unfounded ; and notices of its occurrence in Northern Norway and in Green- 

 land are proven to be not wholly worthy of confidence. Mr. Newton brings 

 his extremely interesting history of the bird, as an inhabitant of Iceland, down 

 to the year 1844, when the last birds known to have occurred were caught and 

 killed ; and as these may be regarded by some as the last of their race, he gives 

 the particulars of their capture. Mr. WoUey and himself obtained many spe- 

 cimens of bones, but found no traces of the living birds, though he says : " I 

 think there is yet a chance of the Great Auk still existing in Iceland." 



UTAMANIA Leach. 



Alca, LinnEEUs, Syst. Nat. 1758 ; and of most authors. Tj-pe A. torda L. 

 Diomedea, Scopoli, 1777, fide G. R. Gray. Not of authors. 

 Torda, Dumeril, Zool. Anal. etc. 1806. Same type. 



Utamania, h^&Q.h., "Syst. Cat. etc. 1816;" Steph. Cont. Shaw's Gen. Zool. 

 xiii. 1825; and of many authors. Same type. 

 Size moderate ; form stout, compact, heavy ; head moderate, anteriorly pro- 

 duced, neck thick. Wings of moderate length, but fully developed, admitting 



*''Li'it'< of these, which are in the main correct, though I know of a few that are omitted, 

 have latelv appeared in the 'Zoologist' for the present year [1862], pp. 73.13 and 7380, and 

 almoot feinuiltaneously in the 'Field' newspaper (Nos. 423 and 424, pp. 93, 114). Further 

 remarks on them will be found in the former journal (pp. 7387 and 7438;."— ^ewton, 1. c. 



1868.] 2 




18 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



of flight, reaching when folded beyond base of tail ; more than twice as long 

 as tail from carpal joint to end of longest primary. Tail rather short, pointed, 

 of somewhat stiffened, acuminate feathers, of which the central pair are elon- 

 gated and tapering. Legs short, stout; tibise bare for a short space above joint; 

 tarsi compressed, anteriorly with a single row of scutellae, posteriorly and late- 

 rally finely reticulate, shorter than the middle toe. Toes long, outer nearly 

 equal to middle, inner much shorter ; interdigital membranes broad and full ; 

 claws short, stout, obtuse. Bill about as long as head, densely feathered for 

 half its length ; feathers on upper mandible extending beyond middle of com- 

 missure, nearly as far as those on lower mandible. Bill greatly compressed, 

 its sides flat, with several transverse sulci, its culmen ridged, regularly con- 

 vex ; tip of upper mandible declinate, rather acute ; its base encircled by a pro- 

 minent ridge ; gonys about straight ; commissure straight to tip, then sudden- 

 ly deflected. Nostrils just above cutting edge of bill, in its feathered portion, 

 just posterior to basal ridge, impervious, narrowly linear. 



Comprising a single species, upon the varying plumages of which numerous 

 nominal species were established by the earlier authors. The employ of the 

 present name for the genus, instead of Alca of Linn^us, 1758, is perhaps de- 

 fensible, npon the grounds alluded to ; although the reason for the non-accept- 

 ance by authors of Tarda of Dum^ril as a generic designation is not apparent. 

 It would be easy to find, among the synonyms of the species, a trivial name 

 to replace Tarda, should it become necessary to use this as a patronym. 



Utamania torda, [L.) Leach. 



Alca tarda, Linnaeus, S. N. ed. x. 1758, 1. p. 130, adult. Id. ibid. ed. xii. 1V66, 

 i. p. 210 ; adult. Brunnich, Orn. Bor. 1764, p. 25, No. 100 ; adult. Gmelin, 

 S. N. i. pt. ii. 1788, p. 551. Latham, Ind. Orn. ii. 1790, p. 793, No. 5. Donn- 

 dorff, Beytr. Zool. ii. pt. i. p. 819. Scopoli, Bemerk. Naturg. 1. p. 81, No. 

 94. Miiller, Zool. dan. Prodr. p. 16, No. 136. Pallas, Zoogr. R.-A. ii. 1811, 

 p. 360. Temminck, Man. Orn. ii. 1820, p. 936. Bonaparte, Synopsis, 1828, 

 p. 431. Audubon, Orn. Biogr. iii. 1835, p. 112; v. p. 428, pi. 214. Gould, 

 B. Eur. V. 1837, p. pi. 401. Brandt, Bull. Acad. St.-Petersb. ii. 1837, p. 

 345. Peabody, Rep. Nat. Hist. Massach. 1840, ii., Birds, p. 401. Fleming, 

 Hist. Brit. Anim. 1842, p. 130. Gray, Genera Birds, iii. 1849, p. 637. Thomp- 

 son, Nat. Hist. Ireland, iii. 1851, p. 235. Bonaparte, Consp. Gav. Coraptes 

 Rend. 1856. Bryant, Proc. Bost. Soc. N. H. May, 1861, p. 73. Schlegel, 

 Urinatores Mus. Pays-Bas, 1867, p. 13. Samuels, Ornith. and 061. of New 

 England, 1867, p. 564. 



Alca [Utamania) torda, Cassin, Baird's B. N. A. 1858, p. 901. 



I'inguimcs torda, Bonnaterre, Ency. Method. Orn. 1790, p. 29. 



Utamania torda. Leach, Stephens. Shaw's Gen. Zool. xiii. 1825, p. 27 ; quotes 

 '^Alca Iloieri, Ray, Syn. 119." Macgillivray, Hist. Brit. Birds, ii. 1852, p. 346. 

 Coues, Pr. A. N. S. Philada. Aug. 1861, p. 249. Boardman, Pr. Bost. S. N. 

 H. Sept. 1862, p. 131. Verrill, ibid. Oct. 1862, p. 142. Verrill, Proc. Essex 

 Inst. iii. 1863, p. 160. 



Alca pica, Linnteus, S.N. ed. xii. i. 1766, p. 210 ; immature or winter plumage. 

 Pallas. Spic. Zool v. 1769, p. 12. Fabricius, Fn. Groen, 1780, No. 51. Gme- 

 lin, S.N. i. pt. ii. 1788, p. 551. Latham, Ind. Orn. ii. 1790, p. 793, No. 5 ; 

 var. fS and y. Donndorff, lieytr. Zool. ii. pt. i. 1794, p. 818; quotes '^ Mergus 

 Bellonii, Johnston, Av. p. 225." Miiller, Zool. Prodr. p. 17, No. 138. 

 Hermann, Tab. Affin. Anim. p. 225. Pallas, Zoog. R.-A. 1811, ii. p. 361. 



Pinguinus pica, Bonnaterre, Ency. Method. Orn. 1790, p. 30. 



Utamania pica , Leach, Stephens, Shaw's Gen. Zool. xiii. 1825, p. 30. 



Alca ballhica, Brunnich, Orn. Bor. 1764, p. 25, No. 101 ; immature, wanting 

 white line from eye to bill. Gmelin, S. N. i. pt. ii. 1788, p. 551. Miiller, 

 Prodr. Zool. p. 17, No. 137. Donndorff", Beytr. Zool. ii. pt. i. 1794, p. 819. 



Alca unisulcata, Brunnich, Orn. Bor. 1764, p. 25, No. 102; young, not having 

 obtained full size and markings of bill. 



[Jan. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 19 



Alca minor, Brisson, Ornitbologia, vi. 1760, p. 92, No. 3, pi. 8, fig. 2. 

 Alea glacialis et microrhyncha, Brehm. 



Hahitat. — European and American coasts of the Atlantic, from the higher 

 latitudes, in summer, to the 40°, or thereabouts, in winter. Very abundant. 

 Specimens in all the American museums, and most private collections. Breeds 

 in great numbers on the islands in the Gulf of St. Lawrence, and on the coasts 

 of Labrador and Newfoundland ; in Avinter strays south to New Jersey. Arctic 

 seas of both hemispheres. Rare, or accidental in the North Pacific. Japan ! 

 (Schlegel, Mus. Pays-Bas.) 



Adult, in summer. — Iris bluish. Mouth chrome yellow. Bill, feet and claws 

 black; the former with a conspicuous curved vertical white line occupying the 

 middle sulcus of both mandibles, continuous from one to the other. A straight, 

 narrow, very conspicuous white line from eye to base of culmen, composed of 

 a series of very short stiff setaceous feathers, sunk below the level of the others. 

 Secondaries narrowly but distinctly tipped with white. Head and neck all 

 around, and entire upper parts black ; this on the sides of the head, chin and 

 throat lustreless, velvety, tinged with fuliginous or brownish ; on the upper 

 parts glossy and more intense in color. Inner webs of primaries light brownish- 

 gray at base. Entire under parts from the throat, including under surfaces of 

 wings white. 



Adult in winter. — Upper parts lighter, duller, more brownish-black ; the white 

 of the under parts extending to the bill, and on the sides of the head and neck, 

 sometimes quite to the nape. 



Young, first luinter — Similar to the preceding ; smaller, the bill weaker, 

 shorter, less elevated, less decurved at the tip. the culmen, rictus f nd gonys 

 straighter, the sides of both mandibles smooth, except in the presence of one 

 sulcus ; bill brownish-black, the sulcus white. Legs and feet reddish or 

 brownish-black. 



Fledgelings. — Billvery small and slender; body clothed with smoky brown or 

 black down, lighter, or tending more or less to grayish-white below. 



The white stripe from the eyes to the bill is very variable, though present in 

 the great majority of individuals. It always exists in the adults in summer 

 plumage, bnt is sometimes absent in specimens, apparently perfectly adult, in 

 winter plumage. Its presence does not seem to be amenable to any very gene- 

 ral or constant law : since it may be very evident in very young birds, not yet 

 fully fledged, and again absent in apparently mature specimens, as just stated. 

 In winter specimens it is frequently interrupted and irregular, wanting the 

 sharpness of definition which it has in all cases of adult specimens in summer 

 vesture. 



Dimensions : Adult. — Length (average) 18-00, extent about 27-00,wing 7-75, tail 

 3-50, difference between outer and inner feathers 1-25 ; tarsus 1"25 ; middle toe 

 and claw 2-00, outer do. the same, inner do. 1-40 ; chord of culmen 1-30, its 

 curve 1-50 ; rictus 2-25 ; gonys -75 ; nostrils to tip -85; greatest depth of bill, 

 (just anterior to nostrils,) -90 ; greatest width of the corneous portion -30. 



rouw^r.— Length 15-00; extent 22-00; wing 7-00; tail 3-00; tarsus 1-00; 

 chord of culmen 1 00; rictus 1-75, gonys "60; greatest depth of bill -60; 

 greatest width -20. 



No one of the many synonyms of this species involves any doubtful point, 

 all being based upon the winter plumage, or upon the absence of the white 

 line, or upon an undeveloped condition of the bill. " Alca pica " was the 

 most firmly established of these, having held its ground until 1825 or there- 

 abouts. 



2. Subf\\mily PnALERiDiNiE. 

 FRATERCULA, Brisson. 



ilZca, Linnreus, Syst. Nat. 1744; and in part of subsequent editions ; and of 

 the older authors. 



1868.] 




20 PEOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Spheniscus, Moehring, Av. Gen. 1752. Not of authors. 



Fratercula, Brisson, Oniith, 17G0 ; and of many authors. 



Lunda, Pallas, Zoog. R-A. 1811 ; in part. 



Mormon, Illiger, Prodromus, 1811 ; and of most authors. Type Alcct 



arctica L. 

 Larva, Vieillot, Analyse, 1816. (Type Alca arctica L. fide Gray). 

 Ceratoblepharum, Brandt, Bull. Acad. Imper. St. Petersb. ii. 1837, p. 348. Type 

 Alca arctica L. 

 Bill rather longer than the head, or than the middle toe and claw, nearly as 

 high at the base as long, exceedingly compressed, the sides nearly vertical, the 

 base of the upper mandible with an elevated horny ridge, entirely surrounding 

 it ; the basal moiety of the upper mandible with its sides perfectly smooth, 

 forming an elongated oblique triangle with two curved sides ; terminal moiety 

 with three or four deep very oblique curved grooves, from commissure to 

 cuhnen, their convexity looking forwards. Under mandible without a basal 

 ridge, the basal moiety smooth, the terminal with grooves, in continuation of 

 those of the upper mandible. Culmen commencing on a level with the fore- 

 head, thence regularly decliiiate, very convex, with unbroken curve, its ridge 

 sharp, the tip acutely pointed, overhanging. Rictus perfectly straight, except 

 at the end ; the angle of the mouth occupied by a circular callosity of mem- 

 branous tissue; gonys ascending, slightly sinuate, the keel sharp, terminating 

 posteriorly in a thin, elongated, almost hamular process. Nostrils placed just 

 over the commissure, linear, long, reaching nearly across the base of the 

 smooth triangular space of the upper mandible. No nasal fossaj ; both eyelids 

 furnished with prominent callosities, in one species developing into a slender 

 acute process. No crest ; a peculiar furrow in the plumage behind the eyes, 

 as in Lomvia. Wings of ordinary length and shape. Tail contained two and 

 three-fifths times in the wing; the lateral feathers slightly graduated, the cen- 

 tral pair shorter than the next ones. Tarsus very short, only equal to the inner 

 toe without its claw ; stout, scarcely compressed, covered with minute reticu- 

 lations, except for a short space in front, which is scutellate. Outer toe about 

 equal to the middle ; its claw shorter than that of the middle ; middle claw 

 much dilated on the inner edge ; middle and outer claws slightly curved, not 

 very acute, upright ; inner claw very large, greatly curved, forming a semi- 

 circle, exceedingly acute, usually lying horizontal, not upright.* 



A very peculiar, though well known genus of Alcidse, without an intimate 

 ally except Lunda. The essential characters lie in the structure and config- 

 uration of the bill, the rictal and palpebral appendages, and the shape and po- 

 sition of the inner claw ; although there are other features involved. Lunda 

 is crested, with no furrow in the plumage, no palpebral appendages, and a 

 very differently shaped bill. 



Three distinct species represent the genus, as far as known. They are 

 all peculiarly boreal birds, not coming far south even in winter. One is ex- 

 tremely abundant on the shores of the North Atlantic ; another inhabits the 

 North Pacific exclusively ; another is more particularly a denizen of the Arctic 

 Ocean at large. They may readily be distinguished as follows : 



Species, (3). 

 I. A slender acute upright horn on the upper eyelid. Black of 



throat extending to bill 1. corniculaia. 



• The peculiar position, no less than unusual shape of the inner claw of this genus is a 

 strongly-marked character, not found in any other except Lunda. The great curvature 

 and extreme sharpness of the claw could not be maintained were it vertically placed like 

 the other claws, as it would be worn down by constant impaction against the rocks which 

 the birds habitually alight upon. But in the usual attitudes and movements of the birds 

 it lies perfectly flat on its side, and is so preserved intact. The birds make great use of 

 this claw in digging their burrows or in fighting ; and the preservation of the instrument 

 for these purposes is evidently the ulterior design of the peculiar direction of its axis. 

 The birds have the power of bringing it, on occasion for use, into a vertical position. 

 These facte, mayhap, are not generally known. See Pr. A. N. S., Phila., 1861, p. 254. 



[Jan. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 21 



II. A short blunt process on the upper eyelid. A black ring 

 around the neck, not extending to bill. 



Bill moderate; chord of culmen 2-00, the curve 2-10, 

 the ordinate -30 ; depth at base 1*40 (average), wing 



6 "50 2. arctica. 



Bill large ; chord of culmen 2-40, the curve 2*60, the or- 

 dinate -45; depth at base 1-70 (average), wing 7-25... 3. glacialis. 



Fratercula arctica {L.) Steph. 



Alca arctica^ Linnaeus, S. N. x. ed. 1758, i. p. 130, n. 3. LinnfBus, S. N. xii. 



ed. 1766, i. p. 211, n. 3. Quotes Anas arctica, Clus., Lunda, Gesner, 



Pica marina, Ray, Psittaciis mari?ius, Anders. Briinnich, Orn. Bor. 1764, 



p. 25, No. 103. Gmelin, S. N. i. pt. ii. 1788, p 549, No. 4. Latham, Ind. 



Orn. ii. 1790, p. 792, No. 3. Blumenbach, Handb. Naturg. p. 228, No. 1. 



Miiller, Prodr. Zool. p. 17, No. 140. Hermann, Tab. Affin. Anim. p. 150. 



Donndorff, Beytr. Zool. ii. pt. i. 1794, p. 815. 

 Lunda arctica, Pallas, Zoog. R.-A. 1811, ii. p. 365, pi. 83. Schlegel, Ilrinatores 



Mus. Pay-Bas. livr. ix. 1867, p. 28. (In part. Confounds glacialis Leach 



with the present species.) 

 Fratercula arctica, Stephens, Shaw's Gen. Zool. xiii. 1825, p. 37. Quotes 



" labradora Gm. Lath." as syn. Fleming, Hist. Brit. Anim. 1842, p. 130. 



Thompson, Nat. Hist. Ireland, iii. 1851, p. 221. Gray, Gen. Birds, iii. 1849, 



p. 637. 

 Fratercula (Ceratoblepharum) arctica, Brandt, Bull. Acad. St. Petersb. ii. 



1837, p. 348. 

 Mormon arctica, Illiger, Prodromus, 1811, p. Naumann, Isis. v. Oken, 1821, p. 



783, pi. 7, figs. 5, 6, 7. Audubon, Orn. Biog. iii. p. 105, pi. 213. Oct. Ed. 



vii. pi. 464. Nuttall, Man. Orn. ii. 1834, p. 548. Bonaparte, Synopsis, 1828, 



p. 430. Peabody, Rep. Nat. Hist. Mass. 1840, ii. Birds, p. 401. Macgillivray, 



Hist. Brit. Birds, 1852, ii. p. 365. Coues, Pr. A. N. S. Phila. Aug. 1861, p. 



251. Boardman, Pr. Bost. Soc. N. H. Sept. 1862, p. 131. Verrill, Proc. 



Bost. Soc. N. H. Oct. 1862, p. 142. Verrill, Proc. Essex Inst. iii. 1864, p. 160. 



Samuels, Ornith. and Ool. of New England, 1867, p. 566. 

 Mormon [Fratercula) arctica, Bonaparte, Comptes Rendus, kjiv. 1856, p. 774. 



Cassin, Birds N. A. 1858, p. 903. 

 Mormon fratercula, Temminck, Man. Orn. ii. p. 933. Gould, Birds Europe, v. 



1837, p. pi. 403. 

 Mormon polaris el Orahx, Brehra. 



Alca deleta Briinnich, Orn. Bor. 1764, p. 25, No. 104. Young. 

 Alca lahradorica, Gmelin, S. N. i. pt. ii. 1788, p. 550, No. 6. Based upon the 



" Labrador Auk " of Pennant, A. Z. 1785, ii. p. 512, No. 428 ;* and Lath. 



Syn. iii. i. p. 318, No. 4. "Hab. in terra Labrador ; Arcticec magnit. 12 fere 



poll. long. Rostr. angustum, maud. sup. obscure rubra, inf. albida nigro 



maculata ; tempera obscur^ alba, gula, alx, et cauda brevis obscurai, pedes 



rubri." Bonnaterre, Ency. Method. Orn. 1790, p, 33. Donndorff, Beytr. 



Zool. ii. pt. i. 1794, p. 817. 

 Alca labradora, Latham, Ind. Orn. ii. 1790, p. 793, No. 4. Same basis as that 



of Gmelin. " Rostro carinato, mand. inf. gibba, ad apicem macula nigra, 



oculorum orbita temporibusque albidis, * * color corporis fere ut in 



arctica," etc. — ^oi Sagmatorrhina labradora Cassin, which is S. LathajniBp. 

 Spheniscus, Moehving, Av. Gen. 1752, p. 62, No. 64. Based on " Colymbi species 



et Alcae species " of Linnaeus' sixth edition. " Rostrum subouatum, lateri- 



* The following is Penn.int's description: — "With the bill an inch finrl a quarter long> 

 much carinated at top, not very deep, a little convex; upper mandible dusky, lower whitish, 

 marked with a black spot, and angulated like that of a gull ; crown and upper part of the 

 body, wings and tall, dusky; lower part white; legs red. Size of the former," (ArMca.) 

 " Inhabits the Labrador coast ?— Br. Mus." 



1868.] 




22 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



bus angustissime et perpendieulariter compressis, cutis callosa dura iu basi 

 mandibuli superioris. Ad supercilia cornu breue," etc. 



Coasts and Islands of the North Atlantic, very abundant. Rare in the North 

 Pacific, (Pallas,) where replaced by F. corniculata. In winter, south on the 

 American Coast to Massachusetts. Breeds on the islands in the Bay of Fundy, 

 (Boardman). Numerous specimens in all American Museums. 



Adult {breeding plumage.) — Iris hazel brown. Eyelids vermillion red, the 

 fleshy callosities bluish ash. Base of bill and first ridge dull yellowish, the 

 smooth contained space bluish, rest of bill vermillion red, the tip of the lower 

 mandible and the two terminal grooves yellowish. Legs and leet coral red, 

 claws black. Crown of head grayish black, the edges of which are sharply 

 defined against the color of the sides of the head, chin and throat, and the pos- 

 terior edge of which is separated by a very narrow but distinct transnuchal 

 stripe of ashy from the color of the back. Sides of head, with chin and 

 throat ashy white ; nearly white between the eyes and bill, and with a max- 

 illary stripe or area of blackish ash on either side of the throat. A narrow, 

 distinct line of white along the anterior edge of the antibrachium. Entire 

 upper parts glossy black, with a bluish lustre, continuous with a broad collar 

 of the same around the sides and front of the neck. Under parts from the 

 neck pure white, the elongated feathers of the flanks and sides blackish. Under 

 surface of wings pearly ash-gray ; inner webs of primaries and secondaries 

 dull gray-brown, the shafts brown, blackish at tip and whitish towards the 

 base. 



Length 13-50, extent 24-00, wing 6-50, tail about 2-25 ; tarsus I-OO ; middle 

 toe 1-40, its claw -40 ; outer toe 1-40, its claw -30 ; inner toe 1 -00, its claw -40 ; 

 bill — chord of culmen 2-00, its curve 2-10; depth of bill at base 1-40; rictus 

 1-25; gonys 1-45: greatest width of bill (which is at base of nostrils) -60; 

 length of nasal slit -35. 



Young. — Bill much smaller and weaker than in the adult ; without the basal 

 ridge, and with onlj' slight indications of the warty callosities at angle of ric- 

 tus ; the terminal grooves wanting, or faintly indicated ; the culmen much 

 less convex ; the gonys convex and ascending posteriorly, without the sharp 

 hamular process at base. Such are the general characteristics of the young, 

 thouo-h full-grown bird. Birds not grown have their bill much smaller still, 

 entirely without grooves or ridges, acute at the apex, the culmen and gonys 

 perfectly straight ; the lateral aspect of the bill is almost an equilateral trian- 

 gle. Bill basally blackish ; terminally yellowish. Legs and feet reddish yellow, 

 obscured with dusky. The eyelids want the fleshy processes. In colors of 

 plumage the young birds are almost exactly like the parents, except that the 

 ashy of the sides of the head is tinted with sooty black, more or less directly 

 continuous with the black of the crown, and lightening into a dusky ash on 

 the auriculars and lower parts of the sides of the head. 



Nestlings are covered with blackish down, becoming whitish on the under 

 parts from the breast backwards. 



This species presents little variation in any respect from the conditions as 

 above described. The dimensions do not vary much, and even the bill is very 

 constant in size, shape and colors. The plumage of the adults scarcely pre- 

 sents appreciable variation. 



The protuberance on the lower eyelid is horizontal, and occupies the whole 

 leno-th of the lid. That on the upper ej'elid is nearly perpendicular, and 

 higher than broad ; but is short, obtuse and never developed into an acute 

 process. 



There is absolutely no difference between American and European speci- 

 mens. The footnote on page 251, Pr. A. N. S. Phila. for 1861, is to be can- 

 celled as wholly erroneous. 



No bird of the familj' oi Alcidse is better known than the present species. It 

 is the type of the Linnaean genus Alca of 1744, but not of 1758, nor of subse- 



[Jan. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 23 



quent editions of the " System." Though so long known, it has few synonyms 

 beyond those resulting from its reference to divers genera. Alca " deleta " 

 Briinnich, is the young bird. So also, beyond a doubt, is the Alca " labra- 

 dorica " of Gmelin, which has been so differently interpreted by various 

 authors. Bonaparte even says it is certainly his Sagmatorrhina Lalhami, though 

 he does not adopt the name labradora, as it would imply a geographical error. 

 Mr. Cassin, however, uses it in connection with the Sagmatorrhina. It is based 

 upon the " Labrador Auk " of Pennant. The diagnosis of this author, and 

 that given by Gmelin and Latham, are reprinted above, for facility of reference. 

 If the reader will take the trouble to study these three descriptions, he will 

 not be likely to regard them as diagnoses of Sagmatorrhina Lathawi. 



This species is the type of Moehring's genus Spheniscus ; and a person ad- 

 dicted to iconoclasm in the matter of nomenclature might cut a fine dash on 

 the strength of this fact. 



Fratercula glacialis, Leach. 

 Mormon glacialis, "Leach," Naumann, Isis, 1821, p. 782, pi. T, fig. 2. Not of 



Audubon and Gould, who figure and describe corniculala. Newton, Ibis, 



1865, p. 212. Malmgren, Cab. Journ. f. Ornith. xiii, 1865, p. 394; critical 



discussion of relationships to arctica. 

 ? Mormon glacialis, Bonaparte, Synopsis B. U. S. 1828, p. 429. Probably only 



arcticus. Boardman, Pr. Bost. Soc. Nat. Hist. Sept. 1862, p. 132 ; and Ver- 



rill, Proc. Essex Inst, iii, 1864, p. 160. Grand Menan, Bay of Fundy. 



These two authors rely for the locality upon Audubon's authority, very 



questionable in this instance. 

 Fratercula glacialis, Leach, Stephen's Cont. Shaw's Gen. Zool. xiii, 1825, p. 40, 



pi. 4, fig. 2. Gray, Genera Birds, iii, 1849, p. 637. 

 Mormon [Fratercula) glacialis, Bonaparte, Tab. Comparatif Pelagiens, Comptes 



Rendus, xiii, 1856, p. 774. Cassin, Baird's B. N. A. 1858, p. 903. 

 Lunda arctica, Schlegel, Urinatores Mus. Pays-Bas, ix. livr. 1867, p. 28, in part ; 



" Specimina aliquantulum majora ex insula Spitzbergen." 



Coasts of the North Atlantic; but a more boreal species than F. arcticus; 

 Arctic Ocean. Spitzbergen. Near Port Foulke, Greenland, (Mus. Smiths. Inst.), 

 " Europe," Greenland, (Mus. Acad. Philada.) Not authenticated as occurring 

 on the coast of Maine. 



(No. 24,302, Mus. Smiths., near Port Foulke, Greenland, Aug., 1861 ; adult ; 

 Dr. I. I. Hayes.) With the colors, and much the general aspect of F. arcticus. 

 Larger than that species. Protuberance on upper eyelid more decidedly aci- 

 cular; in fact intermediate in size and pointedness between that oi F. arctica 

 and F. corniculata. Bill much larger, comparatively and absolutely, than that 

 of arctica, and differently shaped ; its colors about the same. Bill very deep 

 at the base, the basal ridge rising high on the forehead; culmen much arched, 

 towards the end dropping nearly perpendicularly downwards, so great is its 

 convexity. Upper mandible with four decided grooves ; the lower with three, 

 being one more on each than is usual in arctica. Gonj's more convex in out- 

 line, yet not produced posteriorly into so acute a hamular process. Length 

 14-50: extent about 26-00; wing 7-25 ; tail 2-25; tarsus 1-20; middle toe 

 and claw 1-90, outer do. 1-90, inner do. 1-45; bill: chord of culmen 2-40, its 

 convexity 2-60, ordinate of the curve -45; depth of bill at base 1-70, length 

 along rictus 1-50, along gonys 1-60; greatest width of bill -65; length of nasal 

 aperture -40. 



The developement of the bill, changes of plumage, and individual variations 

 of this species are doubtless identical with those of arctica. Young birds of 

 the two species might not be satisfactorily distinguishable. 



Though this species is so very near arctica it is probable that the majority 

 of authors would accord to it specific rank. It is apparently larger in all its 

 parts ; the callosity on the upper eye-lid tends in shape towards that of corni- 

 culata ; the bill is not only much larger every way than that of arctica, but has 



1868.] 




24 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



a decidedly different shape, owing chiefly to its greater depth at base, as com- 

 j)ared with its length, and much greater convexity of culmen. The only ques- 

 tionable relationship is with arctica ; the bird is certainly not corniciilata. 



This species is usually cited by New England writers as occurring off the 

 coast of Maine in winter. (Grand Menan, entrance of the Bay of Fundy.) In 

 this, however, they only quote Audubon's authority, Avhich is not reliable in 

 this instance, as he himself says that he " rather supposed than was actually 

 certain that the birds observed were large-billed Puffins." The case is ren- 

 dered still more problematical by the fact that Audubon's " Large-billed 

 Puffin, Mormon glacialis Leach," is really the corniculata Naumann, described 

 and figured from specimens procured in Loudon, from Mr. Gould, who also, in 

 the " Birds of Europe," mistakes the true glacialis Leach for corniculaia Nau- 

 mann Subsequent writers will do well to expunge the name of this species 

 from their local lists of the birds of New England. It is exceedingly improb- 

 able that the true corniculata occurs on the New England coast. 



This species is usually cited as having been introduced in Stephens' Con- 

 tinuation of Shaw's General Zoology (1825) ; but must have appeared some 

 years previous, since Naumann quotes '■^ Mormon glacialis Leach," in the Isis, 

 1821. It was probably named by Leach about 1816-18. 



FuATERCULA coRMicuLATA, {N'oumami), Gray. 



Mormon corniculata, Naumann, Isis v. Oken, 1821, p. 782, pi. 7, figs. 3, 4. 



(Kamtschatka.) Cassin, Pr. A. N. S. Philada. 1862, p. 324. (Behring's 



Straits.) 

 3Iormon [Fratercula) corniculata, Bonaparte, Comptes Rendus, 1856, p. 774. 



Cassin, Baird's B. N. A. 1858, p. 902. 

 Fraterciila corniculata, Graj', Gen. Birds, iii, 1849, p. 637, pl. 174. 

 Fratercula [Ceratoblepharum] corniculata, Brandt, Bull. Acad. St. Petersb. ii, 



1837, p. 348. Quotes " Mormon corniculatum, Kittlitz, Kupfer, i." 

 Mormon glacialis, Audubon, Orn. Biogr. iii, 1835, p. 599, pl. 293, fig. 1. Id. B. 



Amer. vii, p. , pl. 463. Not of authors. Gould, Birds Eur. v, 1837, pl. 



404. Not of authors. 

 ? Fratercula glacialis. Vigors, Zool. Voj\ Blossom, 1839, Ornith. p. 33. Prob- 

 ably not true glacialis. 

 Lunda corniculata, Schlegel, Urinatores Mus. Pays-Bas, livr. ix, 1867, p. 28. 



Coasts and Islands of the North Pacific and Arctic oceans. Kamtschatka, 

 (Mus. Acad. Phila.) Sitka, (Schlegel, Mus. Pays-Bas.) Kotzebue Sound, and 

 St. Michael's, Russian America, (Mus. Smiths. Inst.) Southern extension on 

 west coast of America not determined. Not recorded from the North Atlantic. 



Adult, breeding plumage. (No. 46,503, Mus. Smiths., St. Michael's, Russian 

 America, June 27, 1866; H. M. Bannister.) Bill very large, especially high at 

 the base for its length, the height being about equal to the chord of the cul- 

 men, exclusive of the width of the basal rim ; base of culmen and angle of 

 gonys both produced far backward, giving a greatly curved outline to the base 

 of the bill along the feathers of the sides of the head ; sides of the bill not dis- 

 tinctly divided into two compartments ; nearly plane and smooth in their entire 

 length, with only three faintly pronounced short grooves ; culmen exceedingly 

 convex, regularly arched in the arc of a perfect circle ; the tip of the upper 

 mandible acute, moderately overhanging, the basal rim broad and prominent ; 

 rictus (not including the part beyond the basal rim of the upper mandible) 

 very short, only equal to the height of the upper mandible at base ; gonys 

 sinuate, at first convex in outline, then slightly' concave; its length but little 

 less than the chord of the culmen.* 



Appendage of the upper eye-lid produced into a long, slender, acutely pointed 



* The lower mandible in this specimen is so thin near the angle of the gonys as to be 

 transparent. Ordinary type can be read through it. 



[Jan. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 25 



upright spine ; that of the lower eye-lid much as in other species of the 

 genus. 



Form otherwise as in F. arctica and glacialis. Larger than the former, about 

 the size of the latter. 



Crown of the head deep grayish black; the patch of this color triangular in 

 shape, narrowing anteriorly to a point at the base of the culmen. Sides of the 

 head white ; the furrow in the plumage behind the eye, and the sides of the 

 lower jaw tinged with dark ash. A narrow distinct line of white along the 

 edge of the fore-arm. Entire upper parts very glossy blue-black ; a duller, 

 more fuliginous shade of black encircling the neck before, and running for- 

 wards on the throat and chin quite to the bill. Other under parts pure white, 

 except a few elongated blackish feathers on the sides and flanks. Under sur- 

 face of wings dark pearly ash. Legs and feet orange red, the webs tinged 

 with Vermillion. Claws brownish black. Palpebral appendages apparently 

 ashy black. Bill yellow, tinged with red, the terminal portion blackish. Ric- 

 tal callosities brilliant yellow orange. 



Length 14-50; extent 2450; wing 7-25 ; tail 2-'75 ; tarsus 1-10; middle toe 

 and claw 2-00 ; outer do. 1-90 ; under do. L35 ; bill : chord of culmen 2-00, 

 its curve 2-25 ; rictus from basal rim to tip 1-20; gonys 1-75 ; depth of bill at 

 base 1-80 ; its greatest width -60; length of nasal slit -40; length of superior 

 palpebral appendage -35. 



This interesting species may be recognized at a glance by the prominent 

 horn over the eye, and the extension of the black collar on the throat to the 

 bill. The bill also differs from that of either of the other species in its short- 

 ness, compared with its great depth at the base, and the nearly smooth sides, 

 which are not distinctly divided by a ridge or groove into two compartments. 

 The bill is also comparatively thinner than that of the other species, and dif- 

 ferently colored. 



Prof. Naumann first described this species from Kamtschatka in his valu- 

 able memoir on the genus in the Isis, as above cited. It has been occasionally 

 confounded with glacialis Leach, which is quite a different bird. It is a North 

 Pacific and Arctic species, not recorded from the Atlantic. Excellent speci- 

 mens are contained in the Philadelphia Academy and Smithsonian Institution; 

 one of those in the collection of the last named is probably the original of 

 Audubon's plate of "glacialis." 



LUNDA, Pallas. 



Alca, Pallas, Spic. Zool. v, 1769; in part; and of some older authors. 

 Lunda, Pallas, (ex Gesn.) Zoog. R.-A. 1811. Type Alca cirrhata, Pallas. 

 Mormon, Illiger, Prodrome, 1811 ; in part ; and of most authors. 

 Fraterciila, Stephens, Shaw's Gen. Zool. xiii, 1825; in part; not of BrissoH. 

 Gymnoblephariim, Brandt, Bull. Acad. Imper. St. Petersburg, ii, 1837, p. 349. 



Type Alca cirrhata, Pallas. 



With somewhat the general aspect of Fratercula. No horny appendages to 

 the eyelids. No furrow in the plumage behind the eyes. An extremely 

 elongated crest on each side of the head. Upper mandible with only an indi- 

 cation of a basal ridge along its sides ; the culmen divided into two parts, 

 whereof the basal is surmounted by a prominent widened ridge, ending ab- 

 ruptly ; sides of upper mandible with three well marked curved grooves, 

 widely separated, whose convexity points backwards. Under mandible with 

 its sides perfectly smooth, and its base very convex, not concave. Rictus very 

 sinuate ; gonys slightly curved. Feet, wings and tail as in Fratercula. 



The above diagnosis indicates only the principal features wherein this 

 genus — or subgenus, as might be contended with some reason — differs from 

 Fratercula. Except in the bill, eye-lids and crest, the genus is exactly Frater- 

 cula, but the differences in these points seem sufficient to warrant generic 

 separation. 



1868.] 




26 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



LUNDA CIRRHATA, PallaS. 



Alca cirrhata, Pallas, Spic. Zool. 1769, v, p. 1, pi. 1, and pi. 2. figs. 1, 2, 3. 



Quotes Steller, Nov. Comm. Petrop. iv, p. 421, pi. 12, fig. 16. Gmelin, S. 



N. i, pt. ii, 1788, p. 553. Quotes Pennant, A. Z. ii, p. 513, No. 432. Latham, 



Ind. Orn. ii, 1799, p. 791, No. 2. Donndorff, Beytr. Zool. ii, pt. i, p. 822, No. 



10. Quotes Anas arctica cirrhata, Steller. Sander, Grosse u. Schonh. in 



Natur. i, p. 244. Hermann, Tab. AflF. Anim. p. 150 ; and of the other early 



authors. 

 Lunda cirrhata, Pallas, Zoog. R.-A. ii, 1811, p. 363, pi. 82. Schlegel, Urina- 



tores Mus. Pays-Bas, 1867, p. 27. 

 Mormon [Lunda) cirrhata, Bonaparte, Comptes Rend., 1856, p. 774. Cassin, 



Baird's B. N. A. 1858, p. 992. 

 Mormon cirrhata, Bonaparte, Syn. 1828, p. 429. Audubon, Orn. Biogr. iii, 



1835, p. 36 1, pi. 249, figs. 1, 2. (Kennebec R., Me.) Audubon, B. Amer. 



vii, 1844, p. , pi.—. Boardman, Proc. Bost. Soc. N. H. 1862, p. 132. 



(Maine). Verrill, Proc. Essex Inst, iii, 1864, p. 160. (Maine). Heermann, 



Pac. R. R. Rep. x, 1859, Route to California, Birds, p. 75. Cooper and Suck- 

 ley, Pac. R. R. Rep. xii, pt. ii, 1859, p 283. 

 Mormon cirrata, Naumann, Isis, 1821, p. 781, pi. 7, fig 1. 

 Fratercida cirrhata, Stephens, Shaw's Gen. Zool. xiii, 1825, p. 40. Vieillot, 



Gal. Ois. ii, 1825, p. 240, pi. 296. Vigors, Zool. Voy. Blossom, Ornith. 1839, 



p. 33. Gray, Gen. Birds, iii, 1849, p. 637. Cassin, Pr. A. N. S. Phila. 1862, 



p. 324. 

 Fratercula (Gymnoblepharum) cirrata, Brandt, Bull. Acad. St. Petersb. ii, 1837, 



p. 349. 



Arctic Ocean ; Coasts and Islands of the North Pacific ; on the American 

 side south to California ; of occasional occurrence on the Atlantic Coast of 

 North America, (Kennebec River, Audubon: spec, obtained; Bay of Fundy, 

 in winter, Verrill,) Spec, in Mus. Acad. Philada., Mus. Smiths., Cab. Geo. N. 

 Lawrence, author's Cab., etc. 



Bill very large and heavy, much longer than the head or middle toe and 

 claw, its depth at base three-fourths its length ; excessively compressed, the 

 sides nearly perpendicular, except at base of upper mandible, where they bulge 

 a little. Upper mandible divided into two portions ; the basal part with its 

 sides perfectly smooth, bounded along the base by a slight oblique ridge of 

 subcorneous tissue, which is scarcely, however, elevated above the common 

 plane, and is minutely studded with points ; bounded above by a prominent 

 wide ridge formed of an accessory corneous piece which surmounts this por- 

 tion of the culmen ; bounded below by the nasal slit ; bounded anteriorly by 

 a deep groove whose convexity looks backwards ; these four boundaries en- 

 closing a subtrapezoidal space. The terminal part smooth, except in the 

 presence of three widely separated, oblique, curved, deep grooves, whose con- 

 vexity looks backwards. Lower mandible with the sides perfectly smooth, the 

 base convex, the convexity looking backwards, with slight indication of a 

 ridge of punctulated subcorneous tissue. General outline of culmen convex ; 

 this convexity, however, interrupted near the middle by a notch, forming a re- 

 entrant angle between the two parts of the culmen, each of which, taken 

 separately, is convex in outline — the anterior part the most so. Rictus exceed- 

 ingly sinuate, the tip of the upper mandible being almost perpendicularly hung 

 over that of the lower; the angle of the mouth occupied by a large fibrous 

 or membranous excrescence, nearly circular in outline, turgid in life; in the dry 

 state shrunken and minutely punctulated. This peculiar warty excrescence 

 seems of nearly the same structure as the base of the bill itself, with which it 

 is directly continuous. Nasal slit short, linear, subbasal, placed close to the 

 commissural edge of the upper mandible. Palate and floor of mouth both 

 deeply excavated ; the cutting edge of both mandibles exceedingly sharp. 



The eyelids are naked along the edge, but present no thickening or unusual 



[Jan. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 27 



fleshiness. The crest springs chiefly from what would otherwise be a naked 

 linear groove iu the plumage from the eyes to the extreme occiput. Some of 

 the feathers begin to grow much above, if not a little anterior to, the eyes. 

 The crest in perfectly adult birds is more than /our inches long. The feathers 

 have exceedingly slender, delicate shafts, and loose, entirely disconnected, 

 though quite lengthy fibrillae ; and a peculiar silky glossiness. 



The wings are of the usual size and shape in this family. The tail is com- 

 paratively somewhat longer, perhaps, than in any other Alcidine bird ; the 

 lateral feathers a little graduated ; the central pair shorter than the next, pro- 

 ducing an emargination. The legs are as in Fratercula. The claw of the inner 

 toe presents the curious character which has already been dwelt upon in con- 

 nection with F. arclica. 



Adult. — Bill orange-red; the basal moiety of both mandibles livid horn or 

 enamel color; the punctulated basal ridge, and rictal callosities more yellow- 

 ish. Legs and feet obscure reddish ; the webs bright coral red ; claws brown- 

 ish-black. Edges of eyelids red ; " iris pale blue." Crests pale straw-yellow ; 

 some of the posterior feathers, which grow from the black part of the head, 

 black at base. Face pure white, abruptly defined. This white occupies the 

 lores and sides of the head to the base of the crest, and encircles the bill, 

 broadly on the sides, narrowly above and below. The black of the crown 

 comes down the forehead to within a fourth of an inch of the culmen ; just fill- 

 ing the crown between the crests, and ending with a directly transverse out- 

 line. The white on the side of the lower jaw extends to within about the same 

 distance from the under mandible. A narrow, very distinct pure white line 

 along the anterior edge of the fore-arm. Entire upper parts, and under tail 

 coverts glossy black ; sides of head and neck, and throat and breast fuliginous 

 brownish-black ; other under parts the same, but more grayish ; under surfaces 

 of wings smoky gray. Wings and tail black ; the inner webs of the feathers 

 brownish-black ; the shaft of the first primary whitish on its under surface to- 

 wards its base. 



The preceding description is taken from an unusually fine specimen (No. 

 46,494, Mus. Smiths. (J*, Sitka, May, 1867), representing the very highest con- 

 dition of maturity. The crest is more than four inches long. It is not often 

 that such very perfect specimens are met with in collections. 



Length between 15-00 and lG-00 ; wing 7-75; tail about 2-00; tarsus 1-30 ; 

 middle toe 200, its claw -50 ; outer toe 1-80, its claw -40; inner toe 1-25, its 

 claw -50 ; bill : greatest depth (a little in front of extreme base) 1-90 ; greatest 

 width (at angle of mouth) -90 ; chord of culmen 2-40, of which the terminal 

 portion is 1-40 ; rictus about 1-90 ; gonys 1-60 ; greatest depth of upper mandi- 

 ble 1-15; nostrils -25 long. 



Young (full grown). — Bill smaller than in the adult, and not so deep at the 

 base ; sides of terminal moiety of upper mandible perfectly smooth ; chord of 

 culmen 2-00 ; depth of bill at base 1-40. No crest; slight indications of it in 

 some short yellowish filamentous feathers on the auriculars. White line on 

 fore-arm imperfect. White about head as in the adult ; but the black reaches 

 nearly or quite to the base of the culmen and gonys. Otherwise like the adult ; 

 the under parts rather more grayish. The bill and feet appear to have been 

 less brightly colored. 



This strange bird fairly disputes with Phaleris psittacula the claim to be re- 

 garded as the oddest of the odd species of this family. The peculiar configura- 

 tion of the bill strongly characterizes it at all ages, independently of its re- 

 markable head-markings. Though known for about a century, it has received 

 no specific synonyms from any of the writers whose works have been examined 

 in the preparation of the present memoir. Specimens are contained in nearly 

 all the American collections. The bird is authenticated as occurring on the 

 coast of Maine. 



1868.] 




28 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



CERATORHYNCHA, Bonaparte. 



Afca, Pallas, Zoog. R.-A. ii, 1811, in part ; not of authors. 

 Phaleris, Bonaparte, Zool. Journ. iii, 1827 ; not of authors. 

 Cerorhtnca* Bonaparte, Syn. U. S. Birds, 1828. Type C. occidentalis, Bp. = A. 



monocerata, Pall. 

 Ckimeri7ia, Eschscholtz, Zool. Atlas, 1829. Type C. cornuta, Esch. =A. mono- 

 cerata, Pall, 

 Uria, Audubon, B. Am. vii, 1844, in part ; not of authors. 

 Simorhynchus, Schlegel, Mus. Pays-Bas, 1867, livr. ix, in part; not of Merrem. 



Base of upper mandible with a large upright horny protuberance. Under 

 mandible with an accessory corneous piece interposed between its rami, near 

 their symphysis. Bill shorter than the head, stout, very deep at the base, 

 tapering rapidly to the tip, much compressed, the sides erect, smooth, the cul- 

 raen very convex, the rictus gently curved, the gonys nearly straight, except at 

 symphysis, where it is bulging. Nostrils short, linear, subbasal, marginal, 

 impervious. Eye small ; no palpebral appendages. No crest ; no furrow be- 

 hind the eyes ; slender elongated feathers on each side of the head. Inner 

 lateral claw of usual size, shape and position. Other details of form almost 

 exactly as in Fraterciila, Size large ; general form robust. 



This curious genus may readily be distinguished from all others of the family 

 by the characters indicated in the two first sentences of the above diagnosis. 

 The intercalation of an accessory corneous element at the mandibular sym- 

 physis is an entirely unique feature in this family. It seems very much like 

 the " interramicorn," as the writer has elsewhere called it, which is found in 

 the albatrosses, as one of the characters which distinguish those birds from 

 other Frocellariidse. In the present instance, it is a feature of especial import- 

 ance and value, as it helpsgreatly to distinguish this genus from Sagmntorrhina , 

 or, to be more explicit, to separate S. Suckleyi from C. monocerata in every stage 

 of growth. 



The affinities of this genus are decidedly with Fratercula, after Saffmaforrhina, 

 of course. Aside from the peculiarities of the bill, it agrees with the former in 

 most points of structure, excej)t the eyes and inner lateral claw. It does not 

 require comparison with any other genus. It is represented by only a single 

 species, according to the writer's way of thinking, — Suckleyi falling most 

 naturally, as well as can be judged at present, in Sagmalorrhina. 



Ceratorhyncha monocerata (Pall.) Cass. 



Alca monocerata, Pallas, Zoog. R.-A. ii, 1811, p. 362, No. 411. 

 Cerorhina monocerata. Cassin, Baird's B. N. A. 1858, p. 905. Cooper and Suck- 

 ley, Pacific R. R. Rep. xii, pt. ii, 1859, p. 284. 

 Simorhynchus mowocfra/!/*, Schlegel, Urinatores Mus. Pays-Bas, livr. ix, 1867, p. 26. 



Cites Saymathorina [lege Sagmatorrhina] Lathami Bp. and Cerorhina Suckleyi 



Cass, as young. 

 Phaleris cerorhynca, Bonaparte, Zool. Jour, iii, 1827, p. 53. 

 Cerorhinca occidentalis, Bonaparte, Syn. Am. Birds, Ann. Lye. N. Y. ir, 1828, p. 



428. Nuttall, Man. ii, p. 538. Vigors, Zool. Voy. Blossom, 1839, Ornith. 



p. 33. 

 Ceratorhyncha occidentalis, Bonaparte, Comp. List, 1838, p. 66. Bonaparte, Consp. 



Gav. Comptes Rendus, 1856, xlii, p. 744. 

 Ceralorhina occidentalis, Audubon, Orn. Biog. 1839, v, p. 104, pi. 402, fig. 5. 

 Cerorhina occidentalis, Gray, Genera Birds, iii, 1849, p. 639. Heermann, Pac. 



R. R. Rep. X, 1859, Route to California, Birds, p. 75. 

 Uria occidentalis, Audubon, B. Am. vii, 1844, p. 364, pi. 471. 



* This word is spelled in a great variety of ways, both by Bonaparte himself, and other 

 authors. We find Cerorhina, Cerorrhina, Ceratorhina, Ceratorrhina, Cerorhinca, Cero- 

 rhynca, Cerorhyneha, Ceratorhyncha, Ceratorrhyncha, etc. The orthography above cited 

 is that apparently first given by Bonaparte, but is obviously erroneous. 



[Jan. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 29 



Cerorhina orientalis, Brandt, Bull. Acad. St.-Petersb. ii, 1837, p. 348. By a 



lapsus calami for " occidentalis." 

 C'himerina cornuta, Eschschollz, Zool. Atlas, 1829, iii, p. 2, pi. 12. 



American and Asiatic coasts and islands of the North Pacific. Japan (Perry's 

 U. S. Expl. Exped.), Kamtschatka (Mus. Acad., Philada.), Pacific coast of N. 

 A. from Russian America to Farralone Islands, Cal. (Mus. Smiths. Inst.) Breeds 

 as far south as Japan and California. 



Fig. 1. — C mnnoccrata. Fig. 2.—C. rnonocerata. 



Nat. size. Adult female. Nai size. Young scarcely fledged. 



Adult, breeding plumage, (No. 46,517, Mus. Smiths. 9 i Sitka, May, 1866).' — Bill 

 orange-yellow, culmen and base of upper mandible dusky ; horn dull yellowish. 

 Feet apparently dusky yellow ; below, with the tarsi posteriorly, blackish ; claws 

 black. Crown of head, back of neck, and entire upper parts glossy blue-black . 

 Sides of head and neck, and of body along under the wings to the tianks, with 

 chin, throat and upper part of breast, and under surfaces of wings, clear gray- 

 ish ash, pretty trenchantly defined along its line of junction with the black. 

 Under parts from the breast pure white ; this color shading insensibly into the 

 ashy on the breast and sides. A line of white along the edge of the fore-arm. 

 Exposed portions of wing and tail feathers black; their inner webs greyish- 

 brown, basally lighter, the shafts of the primaries dull whitish at base. A 

 series of elongated, stiffish, acicular feathers on the side of the head from the 

 rictal angle ; another similar series from the eye backwards to the sides of the 

 nape, pure white. The individual feathers are about an inch, more or less, in 

 length ; the length of the white stripes produced by them collectively is about 

 two inches. 



Length 15-50; wing 7-25; tail 2-50; tarsus 1-20; middle toe and claw 1-85, 

 outer do. 1-70, inner do. 1-40; chord of cuimen, excluding width of horn, 1-00, 

 including it 1-40 ; rictus 2-00 ; gonys, including length of accessory piece, 1-10 ; 

 height of bill from tip of horn to protuberance at symphysis 1'25 ; from culmen 

 at base of horn to same -80; nostril to top of horn '75. 



Immature, but with a perfectly developed horn, and accessory symphyseal 

 piece (No. 23,391, Mus. Smiths., Straits of Fuca). — Colors somewhat as in the 

 preceding ; but the white of the under parts everywhere obscured by ashy-gray, 

 which tinges the tips of the feathers, giving a marbled aspect to the parts, 

 lightest on the middle of the belly, shading insensibly on all sides into the 

 uniform ashy-gray of the other under parts. Black of upper parts, es])ecially 

 on the head, with a decided brownish tinge. Only traces of the acicular white 

 feathers on the sides of the head. Bill smaller than before ; the horn, how- 

 ever, perfectly developed, rising nearly half an iach above the culmen. Rather 



1868.] 




30 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



smaller than the preceding ; length between 14 and 15 inches, wing barely 7, 

 bill along rictus 1'60, its depth at base, exclusive of height of horn, -65. 



Young. (No. 23,392, Mus. Smiths., Straits of Fuca). — This specimen is just 

 not quite fully feathered, patches of down adhering here and there. The bill 

 is small and weak, hardly more than half the size of that of the adult; its 

 general shape, however, is nearly attained. The base of the upper mandible 

 is covered with a soft skin, about as far as the end of the nostrils. That part 

 of the culmen formed hj the ridge of this skin is sunken below the level of the 

 rest. Unmistakable indications of the future horn are present, in a small knob 

 on the ridge of this skin. In the present dried state this knob is shrunken, 

 presenting the appearance represented in the plate. In life it was probably 

 a small full rounded protuberance, rising a little above the level of the culmen. 

 Between the mandibular rami, at the symphysis, there is a slight fold or ridge 

 of skin, evidently the matrix of the future accessory corneous element. The 

 upper mandible is mostly blackish ; the lower dull obscured reddish. The legs 

 and feet appear to have been colored much like thoseof the adult. The colors 

 of the plumage are precisely those of the specimen last described ; the patches 

 of down are smoky brown. There is no trace of white about the head. 



Nestling, about 5J inches long. (Farralone Islands. Mus. Acad. Phila.) 

 All over smoky brown, lighter and more grayish below. 



The horn of this bird, always present in the adult, and always indicated, 

 even in the scarcely feathered young, as we have just seen, varies a great deal 

 in the details of its size and shape. It is usually nearly upright, but fre- 

 quently projects a little obliqely forward. Its average height is between 

 four and five-tenths of an inch, measuring from the level of the culmen at 

 the anterior edge of the root of the horn. The real roots of the horn begin a 

 little above the nasal aperture ; the nostril opening just beneath the lower 

 edge. The horn is thus bifurcated, as it were, at the base, and saddled on the 

 base of the upper mandible. The anterior outline is usually straight, or 

 slightly curved, the apex rounded, and the posterior border irregular in out- 

 line. The figure represents what is perhaps an average horn. It would be 

 impossible to indicate all the variation in detail; scarcely two horns are pre- 

 cisely alike. 



The frontal feathers ascend a very little way up the back of the horn in 

 the majority of instances ; sometimes, however, they end abruptly at its base. 

 From their foremost point they sweep downwards and backwards along the 

 side of the upper mandible with a gentle regular curve, to the rictal angle, 

 leaving the tomial edges of the upper mandible bare. The chin feathers begin 

 at the accessory symphyseal piece, rise quickly on the sides of the under man- 

 dible, and reach its tomial edge in advance of the rictal angle. 



The symphyseal piece, which is developed from the skin at the apex of the 

 interramal space, is, when fully formed, as hard as the rest of the bill. Anteri- 

 orly it is directly continuous with the mandibular symphysis. On its sides, a 

 groove indicates its line of cohesion with the mandibular rami. The horn, 

 when mature, is perfectly corneous and hard to its extreme base ; there being 

 no soft skin even about the nostrils. Its main shaft is hollow ; a tube is dis- 

 closed when the top is worn off or broken off. 



The white feathers on the side of tlie head differ from those of other Phaleri- 

 dines (except S. Suckleyi) in not being very slender, filamentous and wavy. 

 They are straight, short, acutely pointed, stiffish, standing discreet from each 

 other, like so many narrow spear-points. 



The very large series of this bird examined warrant the belief that the horn 

 is always present, accidents of course not considered ; that it begins to be ap- 

 ])arent even before the bird is fully fledged, as a slight knob. That, in like 

 manner, the accessory symphyseal piece is always developed ; and that its be- 

 ginning may be detected at a very early age. These facts must be borne in 

 mind in discussing the unusually interesting points connected with Sagmator- 

 rhina as compared with the present genus. The opinion relative to the season- 



[Jan. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 31 



al or sexual character of the horn (page 905, Birds of N. A.)* would probably 

 not have been expressed, had the writer enjoyed the opportunity of examining 

 such an extensive series as have been at command in the preparation of the 

 present monograph. 



This species was first named Alca monocerata by Pallas in 1811. Prince Bo- 

 naparte called it " Phaleris occidentalis " in 1827; which name has been 

 usually adopted, Pallas' description being overlooked or disregarded. Brandt 

 appears to have accidentally misquoted Bonaparte's name in calling the bird 

 " Cerorhina orientalis, Bp." Eschscholtz called it " Chimerina cornuta " in 

 1829. These are the only synonyms which the writer has been alile to collate, 

 except, of course, those resulting from the reference of the bird to diverse 

 genera, as has been already noted. 



SAGMATORRHINA, Bonaparte. 

 Sa^TTiatorrhina, Bonaparte, P. Z. S. Lond. 1851, p. 202. Type S. Lathami, Bp. 



" Bill twice as long as high, upper mandible straight at the base, covered 

 with a very large cere, incurved at the tip ; lower mandible ascending imme- 

 diately beyond the middle, forming an obtuse angle ; nostrils linear, margi- 

 nal." — Bp. 1. c. 



The above is a translation of the diagnosis of a genus framed by Bonaparte 

 for the reception of a bird he calls S. Lathami. It apparently differs from 

 Ceratorhi/ncha in the contour of the bill, the presence of a soft cere saddled on 

 the base of the upper mandible in the place of a horn, and, it may be pre- 

 sumed, in the absence of the peculiar accessory corneous element at the man- 

 dibular synphysis, as no mention is made of such a character. The type and 

 apparently only known specimen is in the Br,itish Museum. 



The possession of a soft hat cere in place of an upright horn, and the want 

 of the accessory mandibular piece are precisely the features which characterize 

 Cerorhina Suckleyi Cassin ; and in fact are about the only ones by which the 

 latter can satisfactorily be distinguished, specifically, from C. monocerata. It 

 therefore seems a procedure of obvious propriety to refer Suckleyi to the pre- 

 sent genus. At the same time Suckletji can by no possibility be confounded 

 with Lathami ; nor is the latter by any means a young C. monocerata, as some 

 authors have ventured to hint, and others have boldly assumed. An inspec- 

 tion of the figures accompanying the present memoir ought to set all doubts at 

 rest. 



Species — (2.) 



" Length 16 inches ; wing 7-50 ; bill 2 long, 1 high, five-eighths 



wide at the base" 1. Lathami. 



Length 14-50; wing 6-50; bill along culmen 1-30, depth at 



base -60, width at base four-eighths 2. Suckleyi. 



Sagmatorrhina Lathami, Bonaparte. 



'! ? ? Alca lahradoria, Gmelin, S. N. i, pt. ii, 1788, p. 550. Very doubtful. 

 Rather referable to Fratercula arctica, which see. 



Sagmatorrhina labradoria, Cassin, Baird's B. N. A. 1858, p. 904. 



Sagmatorrhina Lathami, Bonaparte, P. Z, S. London, 1851, p. 202, pi. 44. 



'• Largest among its allies ; blackish, beneath pallid fuliginous : bill and 

 feet red ; cere and webs black. Length 16 inches ; bill 2 inches long, 1 inch 

 high, five -eighths wide at the base, three-eighths in the middle ; wing 7^ 

 inches ; tail 3i ; tarsi l\ ; longest toe 2 and 3-eighths inches. 

 Hab. — •' North-west Coast of America. 



•Spec. No. 10G98, there enumerated, seems to have called forth the remark above allu- 

 ded to. This specimen, however, is believed to be the adult of S. Suckkj/i, of which only 

 the young bird was at that time recognized. 




32 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



"This species is tlie largest of tlie subfamily, which ig well known to con- 

 tain the dwarfs of the water birds ; it is one-third larger than Ceratorrhina 

 monoceraia, of which it has precisely the coloring, wanting only (at least in 

 the state we have it) the little white feathers above the eye and at the corners 

 of the mouth. The proportions of the wings, tail, feet and toes are the same ; 

 the bill and toes must have been reddish ; the cere and membranes black. 

 Like the Ceratorrhina. it seems to be confined to the north-western Arctic 

 region of America; and we are led to believe it does not extend to the Sibe- 

 rian shores, from the circumstance of its not having been noticed by Russian 

 Jiaturalists." 



Fig, 3. — Sagmatorrhina Lathami, By. Nat. size. 



The preceding is Bonaparte's notice of the species, containing all that is 

 known about it by American ornithologists. The writer takes pleasure in 

 acknowledging his indebtedness to Dr. P. L. Sclater, of London, for the accom- 

 panying figure, drawn from the type specimen in the British Museum. Dr. 

 Sclater says very positively that the bird is a perfectly valid genus and species, 

 and the figure evidently warrants the assertion. Independently of the differ- 

 ence between the cere and the horn, the shape of the bills of U. monocerata and 

 S. Lathami are quite diverse. The dimensions of the latter are much larger 

 than those of the former. 



Saqmatorrhina Suckleyi, [Cass.) Cones. 



Cerorhina SucUeyi, Cassin, Baird's B. N. A. 1858, p. 906. Based on spec. No. 



4579, Mus. Smiths. Young. Puget Sound. Cooper ajid Suckley, Pacific R. R. 



Rep. xii, pt. ii, 1860, p. 284. Refers to same specimen. 



American and Asiatic Coasts of the Pacific. Spec, in Mus. Smiths Inst — 

 Young, (type of the species, Puget Sound ;) adult, breeding plumage (San 

 Diego, Cal.) Adult, (Hakodadi, Japan.) 



Adult! breeding plumage! (No. 31908,* Mus. Smiths, 9i San Diego, Cal. 

 Feb. 3, 1862, J. G. Cooper.) " Iris white; bill black and orange; feet pale 

 yellow, black below," (label.) Bill now obscure yellow, the culmen and basal 

 membrane blackish. Feet dull whitish ; tarsi behind and feet below blackish ; 

 claws black. Colors of the plumage almost precisely as in the adult monoce- 

 rata ; white feathers on sides of head exactly the same. Breast rather deeper 

 grayish-ash, the color extending a little further, and more abruptly defined 

 against the white of the other under parts. 



• F^ured in Hliot's Bird« of North America. 



£Jan, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



33 



Fig. 5. — S. SucTileyi, Juv. Nat. size. 

 Fig. 4.-5. Suckleyi, Adult. Nat. size. Cassin's type specimen. 



No vestige of a horn at base of upper mandible ; this being covered with a 

 soft skin, overlapping the culmen, extending to the nostrils, which open be- 

 neath its lower border. That part of the bill occupied by tlie membraue is 

 depressed below the level of the rest, both on the ridge and sides. The mem- 

 brane is shrunken and shrivelled in its present state. There appears to have 

 been a slight tumidity, in the fresh state, of this membrane, just on the ridge, 

 which may have elevated it to the level of the rest of the culmen, and which 

 could possibly even have been inadvertently called a '' knob " by one who re- 

 garded it as the beginning of a horn. No trace of an intercalated piece be- 

 tween the mandibular rami, which have thin, sharp, smooth edges, and come 

 together in a fine point at the symphysis. Bill much smaller, weaker, and 

 particularly less deep at the base than that of C. monocerata ; but not much 

 shorter, nor comparatively even so much compressed as in the latter bird. 

 Culmen regularly decurved from base to tip ; the latter moderately overhang- 

 ing ; rictus at first nearly straight, then gently declinate ; gonys nearly straight, 

 slightly concave ; outline of mandibular rami about straight. 



Decidedly smaller than monocerata ; the wing comparatively longer. Length 

 about 14-00 ; " extent 25-50," (label) ; wing 7-25 ; tarsus 1-10 ; middle toe and 

 claw 1-90, outer do. 1-80, inner do. 1-45; bill: chord of culmen 1-30, of which 

 the membranous part is -30 ; rictus 1-85 ; gonys .75 ; depth of bill at base -60 ; 

 its width at same point -45. 



Young. (No. 4579, Mus. Smiths. Fort Steilacoom, W. T. Jan. 8, 1856. 

 Dr. G. Suckley. Mr. Cassin's type of the species, as described I. c.) " Membrane 

 at base of upper mandible grayish dusky black ; middle of both mandibles 

 dingy orange, their tips dusky ; iris pale hazel ; under surface of the webs of 

 the feet, and the posterior aspect of the tarsi dusky black; upper surface of 

 the toes bluish white, darker about the articulations ; nails black." (Suckley, 

 1. c.) The colors of the plumage are precisely as described for the }'oung C. 

 monocerata ; possibly a shade darker, with rather more white on the under parts 

 than in the corresponding age of the other species. 



Much smaller than the adult ; length " about 12.50; extent 24.00;" (Suck- 

 ley, 1. c.) : wing 6-50 ; tail 2-00 ; tarsi 1-00 ; bill along culmen 1-20, of which 

 the membranous portion is -30; along rictus 1-60; along gonys -60; its depth 

 at base -40. The bill is small and slender; its general shape calls to mind the 

 bill of a young gull of one of the smaller species. The several outlines, par- 

 ticularly that of the culmen, are straighter than in the adult; the tip is less 

 decurved. The bill is much longer, relatively and absolutely, than that of the 

 corresponding age of monocerata ; it is comparatively more slender. There is 

 no trace of a knob ;* the membrane has precisely the same characteristics as 



• Dr. Suckley (1. c), speaking of this specimen, uses the word "knob" in connection 

 with it. His expression is to be taken as indicating merely the turgidity of the soft 

 membrane during the life of the bird ; which raises the membrane to or above the level 

 of the rest of the culmen. The membrane, being very soft, shrinks and shrivels in dry- 

 ing, and the prominence disappears. 



1868.] 3 




84 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



that of the adult bird above described. There is no trace of an accessory 

 piece between the rami. 



The bird above described was first indicated as a distinct species by Mr. 

 Cassin in 1858; that gentleman founding his specific characters mainly ujion 

 the small size, somewhat darker colors, and much smaller, slender bill, as com- 

 pared with monocerata. The species has always been looked upon wiih con- 

 siderable mistrust, and very generally regarded as only a young manocerata. 

 At the time of the introduction of Sitckleyi, C. monocerata was not known in all 

 its ages and stages of plumage, as it is at present. The horn which charac- 

 terizes it was believed to be frequently wanting, particularly in the young 

 bird. The accessory symphj'seal piece had not received attention. These 

 facts, together with the almost perfect identity in plumage of the two birds, 

 very naturally led to the suspicion above mentioned ; seemingly borne out, 

 too, by the fact that the type of Suckleyi was a very young bird, the adult of 

 which was unknown, or at least unrecognized. But it has been shown in the 

 preceding article that indications both of the horn and of the accessory inter- 

 ramal element appear in monoceraHi even before it is fully feathered, and that 

 these two distinguishing features are preserved in all ages, at all seasons, 

 with both sexes. The discovery of Suckleyi in perfectly adult breeding plum- 

 age settles the question of its identity with monocerata. Specimen No. 31,908, 

 above described, has no trace of a horn or accessory symphyseal piece ; and is 

 smaller, and otherwise conspicuously different from monocerata, though of 

 almost precisely similar colors of yilumage. 



There is something highly interesting, very singular, and, with our present 

 information upon the subject, totally inexplicable, in the fact that the plumage 

 of the two birds is so nearly identical as not to be satislactorily distinguished 

 in any particular ; while the bills diflFer in such radical characteristics. The 

 suspicion comes unbidden, that the whole truth in the matter of C. monocerata, 

 and S. Suckleyi — and S. Lathami, too — remains to be developed; while it is 

 certain, at the same time, that nothing but the truth appears upon these pages. 



In the reference of this species to the genus Saymatorrhina, the writer is 

 guided simply by Bonaparte's diagnosis, and by the figure of the head of S. 

 Lathami, kindly furnished by Dr. Sclater. The dimensions of S. Lathami and 

 the form of the bird are sufficient to distinguish S. Suckleyi from it. 



SIMORHYNCHUS, 3Ierrem. 



AIca, Pallas, Spic. Zool. v, 17(59, in part ; and of some authors. 



Uria, Pallas, Zoog. R.-A. ii, 1811, in part. 



Limda, Pallas, Zoog. R.-A. ii, 1811, in part. 



Simorhynchus, Merrem, , 1819. T^'pe Alca cristatella, Pall. Fide G. R. 



Gray. (Where is this genus named ?) 

 Fhaleris, Temminck, Man. Orn. ii, 1820. Type Alca psittacula, Pallas. (Also 



includes cristatella.) And of most authors. 

 3for7non, Lichtenstein, 1823, in part. (J/, svperciliosa = camtschntica, Lep.) 

 Ombria, Eschscholtz, Zool. Atlas, 1831. Type Alca psittacula, Fallas. 

 Cyclorrhynchus, Kaup, 1829. Type Alca psittacula, Pall. Fide G. R. Gray. 

 Tylorhamphvs, Brandt, Bull. Acad. Imper. St. Petersburg, ii, 1837. Type Alca 



cristatella. Pall. 

 Ciceronia, Reichenbach, 1853. Type Fhaleris microceros, Brandt. 



Of moderate and very small size ; general form stout. Usually with a crest, 

 or witli elongated feathers about the head. Bill variable : sometimes simple, 

 oftener irregular in form, with various elevations and dejjressions, often with 

 nodules or other accessory elements ; always stout, compressed, shorter than 

 the head, the culmen very convex, the tip acute. Nostrils entirely unfeathered. 

 Wings and tail of the ordinary shape and length. Feet small and short ; tar- 

 sus compressed, entirely reticulate, shorter than the middle toe. Toes long, 

 outer and middle about equal in length, the claw of the latter largest. Claw 



[Jan. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



35 



of inner toe reaching base of middle one. Claws much arched, compressed, 

 acute, the inner edge of the middle one scarcely dilated. 



The genus as above defined is framed to include a number of species, all more 

 or less closely allied, yet presenting differences from each other in form in 

 almost each instance. The various species are all nearly identical in the 

 structure of the wings, feet and tail ; in the bill no two entirely agree. Each 

 presents sueb specie! characters in the shape of the bill ; but the very fact that 

 this organ varies so much seems to indicate that the differences are no more 

 than of specific consequence. A glance at the synonyms above adduced will 

 show what forms have been made indicative of genera. Paittacula is perhaps 

 the species which has been most generally separated from the Olivers, in view 

 of its oval upper, and falcate under, mandible. But if this bird is to be gen- 

 erically distinguished, so also must cristatellus ; for the latter differs in still 

 greater degree, in the presence of an anomalous accessory element in the bill. 

 This one being taken out, what to do with caintschaticus, so very closely allied? 

 It is almost identical with cristatellus in all points of structure, except in the de- 

 tails of the configuration of the bill, and in these points it stands intermediate 

 between this species and some others. Then microceros a.ud pusi/lus would have 

 to stand by themselves. So also would tetraculus and Casdni. These two, par- 

 ticularly, differ more from all the rest, in their short, simple conic bills, than 

 any of the rest do from each other. In fine, ii' psittacula be allowed generic rank, 

 so also must crisiatcllm, and pari passu must no less than three more genera 

 be recognized. It seems much the most philosophical to group all these forms 

 together in a single genus, regarding the differences in the bills as specific. 



In such an acceptation, the genus comprises eight species, which may be 

 thus analj'sed : 



Species — (8.) 



I. Phaleris Temm. Upper mandible oval, under mandible 



falcate ; rictus curved upwards. No crest. 



Blackish ; white below from the breast ; a white spot 



below the eye 1. psiltaculus. 



II. Simorhynchus, Merrem. Upper mandible triangular, 



under mandible nearly straight; rictus horizontal, 

 sinuate. A long recurved crest. 



Angle of the mouth with a supernumerary corneous 

 piece. Sides of under mandible unfeathered. One 



series of white feathers on the head 2. cristatellus. 



Unknown. (See Pallas' description, infra).. 3. duhius. 



Angle of mouth without a supernumerary piece. 

 Sides of under mandible feathered. Three series 

 of white feathers on head 4. camtschaticus. 



III. {Unnamed subgenus.) Bill very small, short, conic, 

 simple, destitute of any irregularities whatever. 



Large ; bill moderately compressed ; a long re- 

 curved crest ; fuliginous black above, fuliginous 

 gray below. Wing 5-50 ; rictus -TO ; width of 

 bill at base -30 ; tarsus, middle toe and claw to- 

 gether 2-50 5. tetraculus. 



Small ; bill excessively compressed ; no crest (?) ; 

 uniform plumbeous, lighter below, whitish on the 

 abdomen. Wing 4-25 ; rictus -60 ; width of bill 

 at base -15! Tarsus, middle toe and claw to- 

 gether, 2-00 6. Cassiiii, n. s. 



IV. {Ciceronia, Reich.) Smallest of the genus. Short 

 white hair-like feathers over the forehead. 



1868.] 




36 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Length about 6-50 ; height of bill at base -30. Up- 

 per mandible with a basal knob ; bill stout and 

 wide for its length. No decided white patch on 



scapulars 7. microceros. 



Length about 5-50 ; height of bill at base -20. Up- 

 per mandible without a knob ; bill slender and 

 narrow for its length. Conspicuous white patch 



on scapulars 8. pusillus. 



The first distinctive name of this genus is said, by Mr. Gray, to be Simorhjn- 

 chus of Merrem, with cristatdlus as type. This genus is not in general employ. 

 The present writer does not know where it is instituted, but adopts it upon 

 the authority just mentioned. Phaleris of Temminck is usually adopted. This 

 genus was framed, in 1820, to include both psitlaculvs andcristatellus : the char- 

 acters as laid down apply best to the latter ; the former is mentioned first. It 

 cannot be used for cristatcllus, however, being antedated by Merrera's name. 

 If psiUaculus is separated from the present genus, it must be called Phaleris, 

 Temm., which antedates Ombria Esch., though the latter is usually applied to 

 that bird. Tylorhamphus Brandt is simply a duplication of Merrem's genus ; 

 Cyclorrhjinchus Kaup merely repeats Temminck's. Ciceronia Reicli^nbach is 

 based upon the smallest species of the genus — section four in the preceding 

 analysis. Section three of the foregoing synopsis, comprehending tetraculus 

 and Cassini, is really the most distinct of any, and is the best entitled to 

 generic rank. The chance to run in a name is left open to any one who may 

 be ambitious in that line. 



SiMORHYNCHUS PSITTACDLUS, (Pall.) ScM. 



Aha psUtacula, Pallas, Spic. Zool. v, 1769, p. 13, pi. 2, and pi. 5, figs. 4, 5, 6. 

 Gmelin, S. N. i, pt ii, 1788, p. 553. (Based on Pallas and Pennant.) Latham, 

 Ind. Orn. ii, 1790, p. 794. (Same basis.) Donndorlf, Beytr. Zool. ii, pt. i, 

 1794, p. 822. Quotes Steller, Nov. Act. Petrop. iv, p. 426, pi. 13, tigs. 25, 

 26; and other authorities. 

 Lunda psitlacida, Pallas, Zoog. R.-A. ii, 1811, p. 366, pi. 84. 

 Phaleris psittacula, Temminck, Man. Orn. i, 1820, p. 112. Stephens, Shaw's 

 Gen. Zool. xiii, 1825, p. 44. Bonaparte, Synopsis, 1828, p. 426. Gray, 

 Genera Birds, iii, 1849, p. 638. Bonaparte, Comptes Rendus, 1856, xlii, p. 774. 

 Ombria psi I taenia, Eschschokz, Zool. Atlas, 1831, iv, p. 3, pi. 17, Brandt, Bull. 

 Acad. St. Petersb. ii, 1837, p. 348. Cassin, Baird's B. N. A. 1858, p. 910. 

 Elliot, B. N. Am. 1866, part i. 

 Simorhynchus psittaculus, Schlegel, Urinatores Mus. Pays-Bas, 1867, livr. ix, p. 24. 

 Asiatic and American coasts of the North Pacific; Aleutian Islands ; Kamt- 

 schatka, (Mus. Acad. Philada.) ; Russian America, (Mus. Smiths. Institution) ; 

 Behring's Sea, (Schlegel, Mus. Pays-Bas.); Japan? 



Bill moderately large, much compressed, 

 densely feathered for some distance at base 

 of upper mandible and sides of lower. Up- 

 per mandible almost perfectly oval in its 

 lateral aspect, its culmen gently curved, 

 and its tomial edges more decidedly con- 

 vex, the former descending, the latter rapid- 

 ly ascending to meet at an obtuse angle. 

 Lower mandible extremely slender, falci- 

 form in sha[)e, strongly curved upwards, 

 its tip very acute, its tomial edges concave, 

 corresponding to the convex tomia of the 

 Fig. G.—Siinorht/nchus psiUaculus (PM.) upper mandible; the gonys much and 

 Nat. size. regularly curved. Nasal fossaj long and 



wide, but rather shallow ; the nares rather broadly linear, or narrowly oval, 

 overhung by a slightly projecting scale. Frontal feathers embracing culmen 



[Jan. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 37 



in a slightly reentrant angle, thence descending about perpendicularly to the 

 very edge of the upper mandible. Feathers on side of lower mandible not 

 extending quite so far as those on side of upper. Interramal space fully 

 feathered, but in consequence of the peculiar shape of the rami, there is a 

 small pit or fossa between them, just at their junction, which is unfeathered. 

 Wings and tail of the usual length and shape; the length of the latter con- 

 tained about three and two-thirds times in the length of the former from the 

 carpal joint to the end of the longest feather. Tarsus shorter than the middle 

 toe without its claw. 



Adult — Without a crest. A series of elongated very slender filamentous 

 white feathers from the eye backwards aud downwards, white. Entire upper 

 parts, with chin, throat, breast, and flanks, fuliginous or brownish-black, 

 lighter or grayer below than above ; other under parts pure white, pretty 

 trenchantly defined against the darker color of the breast. Bill orange or 

 coral red, becoming enamel yellow at the tip, and along the cutting edges. 

 Legs and feet dull greenish, darker posteriorly, (in the dried state.) 



The above is the state of plumage of apparently most mature birds; 

 but is much more rarely met with than the succeeding: Upper parts as 

 just described, but no whitish feathers below and behind eye. Entire under 

 parts white, marbled on the throat, breast and sides with dusky or blackish ; 

 this color usually occupying chiefly or wholly the tips of the feathers, whose 

 bases are white. The mottling is thickest on the breast, most sparse on the 

 abdomen ; but it varies in degree with almost every specimen. A state of 

 plumage is described as that of the young, in which the white occupies nearly 

 the whole under parts, and is scarcely mixed with dusky, even on the throat 

 and breast. This stage is not represented in American Museums. The ten- 

 dency of the mottling, as the bird grows older, seems to be to increase on 

 the throat, breast, perhaps on the sides and flanks, aud to disappear from the 

 other under parts, leaving the latter pure whitp, in marked contrast. The 

 under wing coverts are always dark ashy brown ; the short tibial feathers 

 the same. 



Length about 9-00 ; wing 5-40 to 5-75; tail l-.'iO to 1 60 ; tarsus (average) 

 1-00 ; middle toe 1-10. Bill : chord of culmen -60, chord of gonys just about 

 the same ; depth opposite posterior end of nostrils -45 ; width at same point 

 •30 ; rictus nearly or about 1-00. 



This very curious species may be instantly recognized, in whatever state of 

 plumage, by the remarkable configuration of the bill; the rictus beinn^ 

 strongly curved upwards, the upper mandible oval, obtuse, the lower falci- 

 form, acute. It is one of the longest and best known of the North Pacific 

 representatives of the family, and is apparently a veiy common bird, though 

 specimens do not occur in collections so often as might be expected. It 

 seems to be decidedly boreal in habitat, and is not recorded, on the Ameri- 

 can coast, so far south as the United States, though occurring at Sitka, R. A., 

 and probably off the coast of British Colombia. It has no specific synomyms, 

 though it has been referred to several different genera. It is one of Dr. 

 Pallas' species. It is the type of M. Temminck's genus Phaleris. 



SiMORHYNCHUS CRiSTATELLUS, {Pall.) Merrem. 



Alca crisfatella, Pallas, Spic. Zool. v, 1769, p. 20, pi. 3, and pi. 5, figs. 7, 8, 9. 



Gmelin, S. N. i, pt. ii, 1788, p. 552. No. 7. Latham, lad. Orn. ii," 1790, p. 



794, No. 6. DonndorfF, Beytr. Zool. ii, pt. i, 1794, p. 821. Vieillot, GaL 



Ois. ii, 1825, p. 242, pi. 297. 

 Uria cristatella, Pallas, Zoog. R.-.\. ii, 1811, p. 370, pi. 86. Erroneously 



cites as synonymous Alca canitschatica, Lepechin. 

 Simorhynchus cristatellus, Merrem., Bonaparte, Tab. Comp. Pelag. Comptes 



Rendus, xlii, 1856, p. 774. Schlegel, Urinatores Mus. Pays-Bas, livr. ix, 



1867, p. 25. (Considers U. dubia and tetrq,cula Pall., young of this si)ecies.) 

 rhaleris cristatellus, Stephens, Shaw's Gen. Zool. xiii, 1825, p. 47, pi. 5. Not 



1868.] 




38 



PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



of Temminck, PL Color. 200, which is Alca camlschatica Lepechin Bona- 

 parte, Synopsis, 1828, p. 426.— Id. Compt. and Geog. List. 1838, p 66. 

 Vigors, Zool. Voy. Bloss., 1839, Orn. p. 33. Gray, Gen. B., iii. 1849, p. 638. 

 PhahriH {Simorhynchus) cristaldla. Cassin, Baird's B. N. A. 1858, p. 906. 

 Tylorhaniphus cristalellus, Brandt, Bull. Acad. St. Petersb. ii, 1867 p. 348. 

 Pknleris superciliata, Audubon, Orn. Biog. pi. 402 ; oct. ed. pi. 437. Not 

 Mormon sujierciliosa Licht., nor Phaleris superciliosa Bonap.,which refer to 

 Alca camlschatica Lepechin. 



Asiatic and American coasts and islands of the North Pacific, to Behrino-'s 

 Straits ; perhaps into the Arctic Ocean.. Kamlschatka and Behrino-'s Straits, 

 (Mus. Acad. Phila.) Japan, and north-west coast of America, (Mus. Smiths. 

 Inst.) Not known to occur on the American coast so far south as Washing- 

 ton Territory, U. S. 



Bill surpassing that of all other spe- 

 cies of the genus in the extent and di- 

 versity of the irregularities of its sur- 

 face and contour; these irregularities 

 chiefly centered in the base and com- 

 missural edges, and produced by the 

 addition of a supernumerary corneous 

 element to the base of the upper man- 

 dible just at the angle of the rictus, as 

 well as the expjtnsion and projection 

 upwards and outwards of the sides of 

 the lower mandible towards and at its 

 base. Bill, except in the length of its 

 unfeathered commissure, rather short 

 and wide, the length of culmen scarcely 

 surpassing the width of bill at its 

 base. Upper mandible with the cul- 

 men short and regularly very convex 

 from base to tip, which latter is rather acute, and slightly overhangs the 

 lower mandible : its tomial edge extremely sinuate and irregular, lightly 

 notched just behind the tip, at the base widened and somewhat everted, for 

 the reception of the cutting edge of the lower mandible ; lower mandible not 

 nearly' so deep as the upper, somewhat ascending towards the tip, which 

 latter is slender and acute ; the gonys short, perfectly straight, moderately 

 ascending, the sides of the lower mandible elongated, everted, their tomial 

 edge elevated and dilated at the base, posteriorly corresponding in contour to 

 the antero-inferior outline of the supernumerary piece. The latter is a sub- 

 circular or subquadrate corneous plate, slightly concavo-convex, wedged in 

 between the bases of the tomial edges of the two mandibles, and forming the 

 angle of the rictus ; in color and texture it resembles the rest of the bill, of 

 which it is a true component element. Nasal fossae small and inconspicuous, 

 not deeply furrowed, filled in by corneous substance like the rest of the 

 upper mandible; the nostrils small, short, linear-oblong, placed close by 

 the tomial edge of the mandible, overhung by an arched and much dilated 

 corneous scale. Feathers extending on culmen to a point op])osite the angle 

 of the gonys, thence descending perpendicularly along the sides of the bill, 

 just past but not touching the posterior extremity of the nostrils ; thence fol- 

 lowing the sinuosities of the commissural edge of the upper mandible to the 

 supernumerary piece, and around the border of the latter,* but not encroaching 

 upon it. Interramal space of lower mandible densely feathered; but no 

 feathers encroach upon the sides of the lower mandible, contrary to the usual 

 rule in this group. 



* This supernumerary corneous element is not attached by its whole surface to thesub- 

 cumbent bone; but a part of its upper border is free and projects a little away from the 

 sliull. The fossa down behind this free raised border is fully feathered. 



[Jan. 



Fig. 1 .—Simorhynchus cristatellus, (Pallas.) 

 Nat. size. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 39 



"Willis and tail of the nsual shape and structure of this group ; the length 

 of the latter contained three and a half times in the length of the former 

 from the carpal joint to the end of the longest primary. I^egs short, stout, 

 liitle compressd. Tarsus entirely reticulate, shorter than middle toe without 

 claw ; outer toe as long as the middle one ; its claw shorter and smaller than 

 that of the middle one. Inner lateral toe extremely short, the tip of its claw 

 falling far short of the base of the middle claw. 



Adult. — An elongated crest of twelve to twenty slender feathers springing 

 in a bundle from one point at the extreme forehead, far in advance of the 

 angle of the rictus, and curving over forwards in the greater part of a circle. 

 These feathers are not truly filamentous, having well developed, though short 

 barbs, and appear narrower than they really are, from the slight obliquity of 

 the barbs from the shaft. A slender bundle of filamentous feathers from the 

 posterior canthus of the eye over the auriculars and sides of the neck. A 

 very few shorter filamentous feathers forming a sparse interrupted superciliary 

 series. All these filamentous feathers white or whitish ; the crest concolor 

 with the plumage of the upper parts. General color of the crown, uape, 

 wing, tail, and whole upper parts glossy blackish, with a good deal of a fuli- 

 ginous or brownish (not plumbeous or cinerous) tint ; under parts a diluted 

 shade of the same, or much more brownish gray, tending on ihe abdomen 

 and posterior under parts generally to ashy gray. Under surfaces of wings 

 and tail like abdomen. Bill and appendages orange or Vermillion red, 

 yellowish towards the tip. Feet dusky greenish, an undefinable color, in the 

 dried state. 



Length about 9-00; wing 5-25; tail 1-50; tarsus 9 00; middle toe and 

 claw 1-55 ; outer toe and claw about the same, or slightly less ; inner toe and 

 claw 1-00; bill; chord of culmen -45; tomia of upper mandible, excluding 

 supernumerary piece -70 ; greatest width of the latter -25 ; tomia of under 

 mandible -90; gonys -40; depth of bill opposite posterior end of nares -45; 

 width at same point -SS. 



Younff. — Similar to the adult, except in the following points: — The bill is 

 smaller, weaker, less irregular and sinuous in outline, less brightly colored, 

 wanting the expansion and eversion of the tomial edges of the two mandi- 

 bles near their base, and with little or no trace of the supernumerary piece 

 at the angle of the mouth. Even in the youngest specimens the bill shows 

 unmistakable signs of its fu ure character, and cannot be confounded with 

 the simple conic bill of tetraculus, etc. The crest and white setaceous feath- 

 ers are wanting, or only traces of them are apparent. The color is less 

 blackish, more inclining to a fuliginous dusky above, and to a light dull 

 brownish gray below. 



This species never acquires a distinct parti-coloration like that of most 

 species of the genus. With the exception of the whitish filamentous feathers 

 on the head, the colors are uniform over the whole body, varying in shade 

 on different parts ; and the transition from the darkest, that of the upper 

 parts, to the palest on the lower is effected by imperceptible degrees. The 

 brilliantly colored bill is a conspicuous feature. The color of the feet cannot 

 be accurately defined in the dried state ; but the tints are probably not very 

 striking. The crest only makes its appearance after the bird is full grown, 

 is at least nearly a year old, and has acquired pretty much the perfect shape 

 of the bill The same is true of the white supra- and post-ocular filaments ; 

 and generally among the Phaleridine birds, the presence of these peculiar 

 head-ornaments may be relied on as indices that the bird is adult, and that 

 its bill has acquired its mature form. It is just possible, however, that these 

 remarks may not apply to the setaceous //'o/i/a/ feathers of S. microceros and 

 pusiUun. The crest of S. cristatellus first appears as a little bundle of short 

 straight feathers shooting out backwards from the plumage of the fore- 

 head. These plumes, in an early state of their growth, are much broader, 



1868.] 




40 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



that is, with more distinct barbs or fibrillte, than subsequently ; considerable 

 time elapses before ihey begin to curl over forwards, and they may continue 

 straight until they are an inch or rather more in length. When full grown, 

 they are nigh unto two inches long, curve until they almost make a circle, 

 drooping gracefully, helmet-wise, upon the bill itself. The crest of this and 

 other species is doubtless moved by peculiar muscles, and entirely subject to 

 the control of its wearer, like the very similar crests of the birds of th,e genus 

 Lophorti/x. 



Simorhynchns camischaticus is obviously the species most likely to be con- 

 founded with the present. In fact, such has been its fate at its hands of so 

 distinguished an ornithologist as M. Temminck. It would be wasting words 

 to institute a comparison between the adults of the two species at this late 

 day. In the youthful condition, before the distinctive head-ornaments are 

 apparent, and even before the bill has attained its perfect form, so character- 

 istic in each case, the two species may be distinguished with equal facility. 

 In camtschatica, the basal moiety of the sides of the lower mandible is always 

 feathered ; in cristatellus this part of the bill is in its whole length always per- 

 fectly bare of feathers. This latter feature is, in fact, the most excellent 

 diagnostic character of cristatellits; by the aid of which alone the species 

 may always be recognized, be it in never so immature condition, with never 

 so undeveloped a bill. The relationships of this species to duhius and iet7-a- 

 culus need not be noticed here, as they are given in all necessary detail under 

 the head of these species respectively. 



This species was introduced into the records in 1769, by Dr. Pallas, who 

 fortunately gave it a binomial name, thereby securing it from appropriation 

 by Gnielin, who contrived to filch so many species from Pennant, Latham, 

 and other contemporaneous writers. Dr. Pallas first described it as an Alca, 

 but afterwards removed' it to the genus (Jria — a very unwarrantable proce- 

 dure. It is the type of Merrem's genus Simorhynchus, and of Brandt's genus 

 Tylorhamphus ; but not, as generally supposed, of Temminck's genus Phaleris, 

 which is based upon Alca psittacula Pall. Though thus referred to so many 

 different genera, it has hardly a specific synonym, unless the name on 

 Audubon's plate 402 be regarded as such. 



Numerous excellent specimens of this bird are in the collections of the 

 Philadelphia Academy and of the Smithsonian Institution, from the various 

 localities quoted at the head of this article. It is decidedly a boreal species. 

 not recorded from the coast of the United States, though occurring on the 

 Asiatic shores as far south, at least, as Japan. 



Simorhynchus dubius, {Pallas) Coues. 

 Uria dubia, Pallas, Zoog. R.-A. ii, 1811, p. 371, pi. 87. " U. rostro fusco 

 simplici, crista frontis pennacea recurva, * * sexu vel relate tantum a 

 praecedente \_crislateUa'\ videtur deferre, licet deficientes ad oris angulos 

 calli carnei. et rostrum minus hiulcum differentiam insignem constituant. 

 Cum praecedenti in mari extra Awatscham portum observatur. Irides can- 

 didae. Rostrum sanguineo-fuscum. Pedes coerulescentes. Cajterum A. 

 cristatellx magnitudine et colore simillima." 

 phaleris dubia, Brandt, Bull. Acad. St. Petersb. ii, 1837, p. 347. Gray, Gen. 



Birds, iii, 1849, p. 638. 

 Tylorhamphus dubius, Bonaparte, Tab. Comp. Pelag. Comptes Rendus, 1856, 

 xlii, p. 774. 



This species, if it be really such, appears appropriately named, since there 

 is nothing to distinguish it from cristatellus beyond certain difl'erences in the 

 bill which might with propriety be attributed to an immature condition of 

 the specimen upon which the species was based. And yet the mention of a 

 recurved crest of feathers upon the forehead by Dr. Pallas militates against 

 the supposition that his specimen was not adult. The great reliability which 

 the scientific writings of Dr. Pallas claim, and ju.^tly deserve, from their 



[Jan. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 41 



uniform excellence and accuracy, necessitates no small degree of caution in 

 a decision against the validity of one of his species. It will be evident upon 

 the least reflection that, for example, such a perfectly valid species as ietra- 

 culus, might be so described, in a few sentences, that no striking impression 

 of its difference from eristatellus should be conveyed. It is also to be borne 

 in mind that Prof. Brandt, probably unsurpassed by any one in the accuracy 

 and extent of his knowledge of the Alcidie, and particularly well fitted to 

 judge of Dr. Pallas' works, admits the species in question as distinct. And 

 in the present instance it seems preferable to coincide with the views of these 

 naturalists, and to allow the species to hcreaftiiF stand upon its own merits, 

 until the proof that it has none is forthcoming, notwithstanding Dr. H. 

 Schlegel's summary assignment of it (as well as of (etraculus) to cristatellus. 

 There is no specimen purporting to represent this species in any American 

 Museum; and the only information regarding it which can be furnished at pre- 

 sent writing is embodied in the above citation from the "• Zoographia." It is 

 hardly, if at all, noticed by other writers than those here cited. Mr. Cassin, 

 however, queries it as a synonym of cristatellus. 



SiMORHYNCeus CAMTSCHATicus, [Lepech.) Schl. 



Alca kamtschatica, Lepechin, Nova Acta Petrop. xii, 1801, p 369, pi. 8. 

 Fhaleris camischatica, Brandt, Bull. Acad. St. Petersb. ii, 1837, p. 347. Gray, 



Gen. Birds, iii, 1849, p. 638. Cassin, Baird's B. N. A. 1858, p. 908. 

 Tylorhamphus camtschaticus, Bonaparte, Tab. Comp. Pelag. Comptes Rendus, 



1856, xlii, p. 774. 

 Simorhynchus camtschaticus, Schlegel, Urin.Mus. Pays-Bas, 1867. livr. ix, p. 25. 

 Uria mystacea, Pallas, Zoog. R.-A. ii, 1811, p. 372, pi. 89. Quotes Alca camt- 



schatica Lepechin, having just previously cited it for cristatella. 

 Phaleris cristatella, Temminck, PI. Color. No. 200. Not of authors. 

 Mormon super cilia sum, Lichtenstein, Verzeich. 1823, p. 89. 

 Phaleris superciliosa, Bonaparte, Comp. and Geog. List, 1838, p. 66. 



North Pacific Coasts. Unalaschka, (Pallas.) Kamtschatka, (Mus. Bost, Nat. 

 Hist. Soc.) North-west coast of America, (ilus. Smiths. Inst.) 



Bill much smaller, simpler, and differently 

 shaped from that of S. cristatellus, though not 

 distantly resembling the juvenile undeveloped 

 condition of the latter. Width at nostril 

 very slightly less than depth at same point, 

 about two-thirds of the length of culmen ; bill 

 regularly > shaped in lateral outline ; culmea 

 very convex, regularly arched from base to 

 tip ; gonys nearly straight, rapidly ascending ; 

 commissure slightly sinuate, a little curved 

 upward at tip ; apices of both mandibles acute, 

 fairly meeting each other on the level of the 

 commissure ; tomia of upper mandible slightly 

 nicked near the tip of the bill. Wings and 

 tail of usual shape for this genus ; the length 

 of the latter contained about three and a half 

 times in the length of the former from the car- 

 pal angle to end of first primary. Tarsus 

 Fig. 8.— Simorhynchus camtschaticus, ^^c^ shorter than middle toe and claw; 

 (Lep.) Nat. size. middle toe a little shorter than outer toe ; 



middle toe and claw just as long as outer toe and claw ; inner toe and claw 



a little shorter than middle toe without its claw. 



The form of the bill alone is characteristic; the other details of structure 



are shared by the rest of the Simorhynchi. 



A very long recurved crest of exceedingly slender, delicate, filoplumaceous 



1868.] 




42 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



feathers, six (to ten?) in number, springing from the anterior part of the 

 forehead, about opjjosite the anterior edge of the orbits, brownish-l)lack ; a 

 single series of slender filaraentous feathers from each side of the base of the 

 culnien, and thence to the superior border of the orbit; a second similar but 

 shorter series from the edge of the commissure, and thence along the lower 

 part of the side of the jaw; a third similar series from the posterior can bus 

 of the eye, and thence adown the side of the neck ; yellowish white. Body 

 colors almost uniform ; brownish black, sometimes with more of a grayish, 

 sometimes with more of a fuliginous hue; the wings and tail most intense in 

 color, frequently nearly black ; the under parts, particularly the belly, lighter 

 and more grayish brown, Inclining to mouse color. Bill orange red, its apex 

 salmon color, or more decidedly yellowish. Legs (in the dried specimen) 

 posteriorly dark brown, anteriorly lighter, more reddish-brown ; feet dull 

 brown ; claws reddish-brown. 



Length of body (approximately) 8-00 inches; wing 5-60 ; tail 1-GO; bill: 

 chord of culmen -45; depth at base -28, width at base nearly the same; 

 length of rictus -95; tarsus 1-00; middle toe 1-25, its claw -35; outer toe 

 1-30, its claw -30 ; inner toe and claw MO ; length of outstretched crest 1-40 ; 

 length of longest whitish feathers over eye 1-00. 



Os hyoides examined : The apohyals are slender cylindrical bones -6 long, 

 slightly knobbed at the end, devaricating at an angle of about 40°. The 

 ceratohyals are absent in the specimen. The urohyal is a delicate style for 

 •10 of an inch, then suddenly expands into a broad, flat, very thin spatulous 

 lamina, subrectangular in shape, or rather cordate, transversely concavo-con- 

 vex. This lamina is as long as the rest of the urohyal, and its breadth is 

 rather greater than the length of the stylous portion. The basi-hyal is -15 

 of an inch long, slender and cylindrical; bearing upon its apex an exceed- 

 ingly thin, expanded, somewhat cochleariform glosso-hyal. No opportunity 

 has presented itself of examining the tongue bones of other species of the 

 family. 



The present is a long and well known species. First made known, at the 

 beginning of the present century, by Lepechin, (see above) it was redescribed 

 as Uria mystacea, in the Zoographia Rosso-Asiatica, by Dr. Pallas, whose ex- 

 pressioa " * * pennulis setaceis albis elongatis superciliaribus mysla- 

 ceisque," leaves no room for doubt as to the species he had in view. It was 

 redescribed in 1823 by Prof. Lichtenstein, under the name of 3Iornion super- 

 ciliosum. Unfortunately, it furnished the subject of Planche Coloriee, No. 

 200, at the hands of M. Temminck, under the palpable pseudonym of Phaleris 

 cristatella ; which event might have been the occasion of confusion and un- 

 certainty, were the bird a less strongly characterized species. As it is, 

 there is no difficulty in detecting and correcting M. Temminck's error. S. 

 carrJschatica is so very distinct from cristatella, that no special comparisons of 

 the two are required. It is only necessary to point to the configuration of 

 the bill, and the presence of superciliary and maxillary filoplumes, for their 

 ready discrimination. For the rest, the present is a much smaller species 

 than cristatcllus ; and the plume is perhaps longer, certainly less recurved, 

 usually composed of fewer feathers, which are rather more filamentous. The 

 setaceous feathers are essentially arranged, as may be seen above, in three 

 distinct sets or bundles ; one from the side of the bill along the commissure 

 and lower part of the cheeks; one from the culmen over the eye, and a third 

 from the posterior canthus of the eye backwards over the auricular region 

 and side of the neck; though the first and last sets may appear more or less 

 directly continuous with each other. It is possible that the plumage described 

 above may not be the most perfect one ; still, the perfect development of the 

 crest and other ornaments warrants the belief that the bird from which it 

 was taken is an adult. Authors speak of the under parts, particularly the 

 abdomen, as being frequently nearly white ; which may be the coloration of 

 those parts in very mature or very old birds. 



[Jan. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



43 



At present writing only one perfect specimpn of this species is known to 

 exist in any American Museum. The Boston Natural History Society possess 

 this one; No. 9209 of the Museum Regrister, No. 8135 of the Fresuaye collec- 

 tion, now ownf-d by the Society. The Smithsonian Institution has a mutilated 

 specimen, (ah ead only), from the north-west coast of America, presented by 

 Mr. John Gould. As far as can be judged, it belongs to a bird rather more 

 perfectly plumaged than the Boston Society's specimen. 



SiMORHYNCHUS TETRACULUS, [Pall.) CoueS. 



Alca tetracula, Pallas, Spic. Zool. v, 1769, p. 23, pi. 4, and pi. 5, figs. 10, 11, 

 12. Gmelin, S. N. i, pt. ii, 1788, p. 552, No. 8. Quotes Dusky Auk, Pen- 

 nant, Arct. Zool. ii, p. 515, No. 435. Latham, Ind. Orn. ii, 1790, p. 794, No. 

 7. Quotes Pallas, Spic. Zool. Donndorff, Beytr. Zool. ii, pt. i, 1794, p. 821. 

 Uria tetracula, Pallas, Zoog. R.-A. ii, 1811, p. 371, pi. 88. 



Phaleris tetracula, Stephens, Shaw's Gen. Zool. xiii, 1825, p. 46. Brandt, Bnll. 

 Acad. St. Petersb, ii, 1837, p. 347. Gray, Genera Birds, iii, 1849, p. 638. 

 Elliot, B. N. A. 1867, part iii. 

 Tylorhamphus tetraculm, Bonaparte, Tabl, Comp. Pelag. Comptes Rendus, 

 1856, xlii, p. 774. Erroneous assignment of Brandt's genus Tylorhamphus, 

 which is based upon crisfatellus. 

 Phaleris (Ti/lorhamphus) tetracula, Cassin, Baird's B. N. A. 1858, p. 907. 



Asiatic (and American?) coasts of the North Pacific. " In mari orientali, 

 prsesertim Unalaschka," (Pallas.) Kamtschatka, (Mus. Acad., Philada., and 

 Mus. Smiths. Inst.) Bay of Yedo, Japan, (Mus. Smiths. Inst.) 



Bill small, short, much com- 

 pressed, regularly conical from 

 a lateral view, simple, being 

 without decided sulci, ridges, 

 caruncles or other irregulari- 

 ties of surface of any sort; cul- 

 men narrow, regularly moder- 

 ately convex from base to tip ; 

 commissure and gonys perfect- 

 ly straight in their whole 

 fength ; the tip of the bill 

 turned neither up nor down, 

 but the points of both man- 

 dibles almost meeting on the 

 level of the commissure. Nasal 

 fossffi scarcely discernible as 

 such, the upper border of the 

 small, basal, linear nostrils 

 being flush with the rest of the 

 bill. Frontal feathers extend 

 Fig. O.—Simorhynchus tetmculus (Pa,\\.) Nat. size. forward with an obtusely 

 founded outline on the culmen, then rapidly recede backwards as they pass 

 downward in a straight line just past the posterior end of the nostrils to the 

 commissural edge of the upper mandible ; those on the side of the lower mandi- 

 ble extending not quite so far, but the interramal space fully feathered Wings 

 rather longer than usual in this group ; legs, feet, and tail as in other species 

 of the genus, the legs perhaps a little longer, comparatively, than in other 

 species. A crest of ten or more slender elongated feathers with loosened 

 fibrillge springs from the middle of the forehead, just before the eyes, and 

 curves forward in the greater part of a circle to near the tip of the bill. A 

 very few filamentous feathers on the sides of the head, the slender series be- 

 ginning at the posterior canthus, and thence extending downwards and back- 

 wards. A small white spot just below the eye. Everywhere dull blackish, 

 or dusky; deepest on the back, becoming more of a smoky or brownish-gray 



1868. 




44 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



on the unfler parts ; under wing coverts like the rest of the under parts ; crest 

 colored like the back. Bill an undelinable dusky* in the dried specimen ; legs 

 and feet livid gray, (probably greenish or bluish in life) ; membranes black ; 

 claws Ijlack. 



Dimensions. — (Spec, in Mus. Acad., Phila.) Length about 8-50 ; wing 5-50 ; 

 tail 1-60; chord of culmen -35; gape -60; gonys -25; greatest height of bill 

 ■33, greatest width '25 ; tarsus 1-UO; middle toe and claw 1-50, outer 1-40, 

 inner 1-25. 



Another specimen, (Xo. 22,258, Mus. Smiths. Inst.) Wing 5-60; tail 1-T5: 

 chord of culmen -40; gape -80 ; gonys -40 ; height at base of bill -40 ; width 

 at same point -30 ; legs and toes as in the preceding specimen. 



Three specimens of this species examined : one in the Philadelphia Academy 

 from Kamtschatka, which served as the subject of Mr. Cassin's description in 

 the "Birds of North America;" another in the Smithsonian Institution, (No. 

 22,258,) received from the Bremen Museum, labelled " Phaleris cristatella, 

 (Pall.); Winterkleid; Kamtschatka;" another also in the Smithsonian, (No. 

 15,805,) labelled "Phaleris cristatella; Bay of Yedo, Japan ; Apr. 1854; eye 

 gray ; iris black ; Rodgers' North Pacific Exploring Expedition." The last 

 mentioned specimen is in a very poor state of preservation, and is a young 

 bird, as evidsnced by the short straight crest, directed backwards ; though the 

 bill is nearly perfect in size and shape, aud the general aspect of the bird is 

 precisely that of the adult. The other two specimens are in fine condition, 

 and represent the perfectly mature state. These three include all that are 

 known to exist in any American Museum. It is not a common bird in collec- 

 tions, and is frequently mistaken for the j'oung cristatellus, to which species, 

 however, it bears only a distant and superficial resemblance. 



The bird here described is indubitably the "Dusky Auk" of Pennant, a 

 species more perfectly and satisfactorily described and figured by Ur. Pallas 

 as Alca tetracula. It is a strongly marked species, not distantly allied to, 

 and somewhat resembling cristatellus in everything but the bill, which is of a 

 radically different formation, as will be impressed upon the mind by a 

 perusal and comparison of the descriptions given under head of these species. 

 Telraculus requires no special comparison with cristatellus or with camlschaticiis 

 for the substantiation of its distinctness. S. Cass iiii of this paper is the most 

 closely allied species, and might just possibly be confounded by a careless or 

 ignorant observer. The difiTerences will be found under head of the latter. 



The diagnostic points of this species lie chiefly in the small size and pecu- 

 liar shape of the bill (cf. descr.) ; the length of the wings, proportionally 

 greater than in any other species of the genus ; and the greater length of the 

 feet and toes. The wings, tail, feet and toes are about of the same absolute 

 dimensions as those of cristatellus, although telraculus is rather a smaller bird. 

 The various shades of the dark color of the plumage are produced by admix- 

 ture of black, brown and gray; there is no pure cinereous or plumbeous on 

 any part of the plumage. 



This is a species which entered at a very early day into ornithological 

 literature, notwithstanding which it has not a single accredited synonym. 

 Its claims to recognition as a valid species, distinct from cristatellus, have not 

 been impugned, except by the learned Director of the Museum of the Pays- 

 Bas. It has been the occasion of no confusion or conflict of opinion among 

 writers, except in those few instances in which it has been erroneously sup- 

 posed to have furnished the subject of Audubon's plate of cristatellus. The 

 most cursory examination of the plate will convince the mind upon this 

 point. Mr. Pennant, in virtue of his "Dusky Auk," which is this species, 

 would have been entitled to the proprietorship of the bird, had he given it a 

 binomial name ; but as it is, Dr. Pallas stands as its lawful sponsor, having 

 christened it Alca tetracula in 1769. 



* Pallas gives its color as " fusco-rubrum ;" Gmelin, as "ex fusco-lutescens ;" Latham, 

 as " luteo-fuscum." 



[Jan. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 45 



SiMORHTNCHUS Cassini, Coucs, n. sp. 

 Phaleris Cassini, Coues, mss. 



DiAG. — S. rostro parvo, breve, valde compresso, longitudine vis altitudinem 

 excedente, latitudine dimidii altitudinis ; fere triangulare a spectu laterale • 

 simplice, nee ullis additamentis cornels instructo ; culminejeviter declinato- 

 couvexo, rictu recto, carini fere recta, a scendente; supra nigro-plumbeus 

 vertice, alis caudaque nigerrimis ; subtus griseo-plumbeus, abdomine crls- 

 soque seusim albicaatibus ; longitudo tota corporis 7-75 (poll. Aug.)- alse 

 4-25 ; caudffi 1-40 ; tarsi "80 ; digiti medii cum ungue 1-20 ; rostri -40 alt. -30 

 lat. -15 1 rictus -60. ' * ' 



Typical and unique specimen, No. 46,564 of the Smithsonian Museum • a 

 male (adult?) collected Aug. 3, 1866, at Ounimak Pass, Russian America 

 by W. H. Dall. ' 



Bill very small and short, 

 only half as long as the tai;gus ; 

 extremely compressed, being 

 hardly more than half as wide 

 as high at the base; its height 

 at base three-fourths the length 

 ofculmen; lateral aspect of the 

 bill nearly triangular; culmen 

 regularly lightly convex'in out- 

 line ; rictus perfectly straight ; 

 gonys almost straight, ascend- 

 ing ; tip of bill rather obtuse ; 

 no tubercles, sinuosities, or 

 other irregularities of surface 

 or of contour. Nasal fossce 

 well marked, oval in outline, 

 Fig. Vi,—Simorhywihm Cassini, nov. sp. Nat. size, reaching the culmen at its base 

 separated by a ridge from the commissural edge of the upper mandible; nos- 

 trils low down in the fo.''sa, small, short, narrowly linear. Frontal feathers 

 laid straight across the base of culmen, descending nearly perpendicularly 

 along the posterior edge of the nasal fossas, just attaining the posterior end of 

 the nostrils, then retreating obliquely backwards and downwards. Feathers ou 

 side of lower mandible extending to a point opposite those on culmen ; some- 

 what further into the iaterramal space, which is densely feathered. Wings 

 and tail of usual size and shape. Feet small, tarsi moderately compressed, 

 much shorter than the middle toe and without its claw; only two-thirds the 

 middle toe and claw; outer toe as long as, or slightly longer than the middle, 

 its claw much smaller than that of the middle ; tip of inner claw just reach- 

 ing base of middle claw. 



Entire upper parts blackish-cinereous, or very dark lead color, deepest and 

 very black oa the crown, wings and tail. Entire under parts much lighter 

 and more grayish plumbeous, insensibly blending with the color of the upper 

 parts on the sides of the head, neck, and body, fading very gradually into 

 whitish on the abdomen and under tail coverts. Inner webs of primaries, 

 secondaries and tail feathers dusky gray ; the outer glossy black ; under sur- 

 face of wings dusky gray, nearl}' black along the edge. Bill dusky, tinged 

 with red ; tarsi behind and toes below black ; rest of feet an undefiuable 

 color in the dried state; perhaps reddish in life. " Eyes white and black," 

 (collector's label). 



This is a very strongly-marked species, differing to a remarkable degree 

 from any other of the family. The chief peculiarity of form lies in the bill ; 

 so small, simple, extremely compressed, destitute of appendages, and otherwise 

 unique, as will be seen by the description, and still more clearly by the dia- 

 gram. As regards color, the tinge of clear plumbeous which pervades the 

 uniform dark color is very characteristic. Tliere is no trace of a crest, nor 



1868.] 




46 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



of elongated filiform feathers about the head. Their absence, however, is 

 not to be regarded as a specific character, since it caunot be positively 

 afiirmed that the specimen is fully adult. 



The affinities of the species are clearly with »S'. teiraculus, which it resem- 

 bles in the small simple compressed bill. But it is unnecessary to compare 

 the two and point out the differences. A glance at the dimensions will alone 

 suffice to show specific distinction. There is no other bird in the family that 

 <S. Cassini in the least resembles. 



SiMORHYNcnus MiCROCEROs, (Brandt,) Coues. 

 9 Alca pygmiea, Gmelin, S. N. i, pt. ii, 1788, p. 555, Nj. 12; and of the older 



authors, liased on the Pigmy Auk of Pennant. Not identifiable. 

 Simorliynchus pygmoeus, Schlegel, Urinatores JIus. Pays-Bas, 18G7, livr. ix, p. 

 23. identifies A. pugmcRa Gm. as Phahris viicroceros Brandt or P. nodirostra 

 Bonap., and Uria pusilla Pall, as young of the same. 

 Phaieris microceros, Brandt, Bull. Acad. ISt. Petersb. ii, 1837, p. 346. 

 Phaleris {Ciceronia) microceros, Cassin, B. N. A. 1858, p. 908. 

 Clceronia microceros, Reichenbach. 



Phaleris 7wdiroslra, Bonaparte, Comp. and Geog. List, 1838, p. 66. Equals 

 microceros Brandt. Audubon, Orn. Biog. v, 1839, p. 101, pi. 402. Audu- 

 bon, B. Amer. vii, 1844, pi. 4G8. Gray, Genera Birds, iii, 1849, p. 644. 

 Ciceroma nodiroslris, Bonaparte, Consp. Gav. Comptes Rend., 1856, xlii. p. 774. 

 "?Phaleris corniciilata, Eschscholtz," (Gray.) Doubtful citation. Perhaps 

 Fratercula corniculata? or Cerorhina monocerata? 



Asiatic and American coasts of North Pacific ; Karatschatka ; Kurile 

 Islands ; Plover Bay ; Sitka ; Japan. Numerous specimens in the Mus. Acad., 

 Philadelphia, and Mus. Smiths. Inst., from various locali'ies. Not known to 

 occur as far south as Washington Territory, U. S., though found in the 

 Japan Sea. 



Smallest of the Auks with the ex- 

 ception of S. pusillus. Bill very short, 

 not half as long as the head, stout, 

 deep, wide, little compressed, obtuse 

 at the tip ; its width at base nearly 

 equalling its heighth at the same 

 point, and but little less than the 

 length ofculmen. A small but con- 

 spicuous globular tubercle arising 

 from base of culmen, beyond which 

 the culmen is strongly arched, very 

 regularly convex, rapidly descending, 

 its tip not very acute, obsoletely 

 notched on the tomia, very slightly 

 overhanging the tip of under mandi- 

 Fi^.W.—Simarhynchus microceros, (Branili). ble. Commissure almost straight its 

 Nat. size. whole length, the extremity very 



slightly ascending. Gonys short, rapidly ascending, very slightly convex. 

 Nostrils in a short but wide and deep fossa, placed rather higher up above 

 the commissure than in some species; narrowly linear, not reached by the 

 frontal feathers. Frontal feathers extending to the node on the culmen, 

 then retreating obliquely backwards as they descend along the sides of the 

 upper mandible ; feathers on side of lower mandible extending farther than on 

 up;)er mandible. Proportions of wings, tail, legs and feet as in other species 

 of the genus. 



Adult. — Forehead and lores conspicuously marked with delicnte hair lines 

 of white, produced by numerous short, stiff, but very slender white setaceous 

 feathers scattered thickly thereover ; a few of which filaments, more elon- 

 gated and thread-like than the frontal ones, stretch adown the sides of the head 



[Jan. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 47 



to below the level of the jaw ; and a few more excessively delicate ones 

 reach from the posterior canthus of the eye some distance along the sides of 

 the occiput and nape. Entire upper parts, including the forehead, vertex, 

 occiput, and sides of head, (with the exception of the white feathers just 

 described) sides of neck, and wings and tail, glossy black. Inner webs of 

 the primaries dusky gray. Under wing coverts, (except the smallest row 

 just along the autibrachium and metacarpus,) white. Region about base of 

 under mandible blackish plumbeous, and a few feathers along the sides 

 under the wings and on the tlanks blackish ; all other under parts white, 

 motiled, especially on the breast and sides, with black, the throat alone re- 

 maining immaculate. Bill red, tubercle and base of upper mandible dark 

 bluish. Legs and feet an undefinable dusky in the dried state ; the anterior 

 border of ihe tarsus, and superior aspect of the toes dull greenish. 



Length about, 6-50 ; wing from carpus 3-75; tail 1-25; tarsus -70; middle 

 toe and claw 1-00; outer do. the same; inner do. -85; bill : chord of culmen, 

 (including width of knob) -40; along rictus -60; gonys -25; height at base 

 •30 ; width at base slightly less. 



The preceding is a description of the perfect plumage of this species, 

 which is of comparatively unfrequent occurrence. The usual state of plum- 

 age of the bird as met with in collections is much as follows : — Bill as de- 

 scribed above; filamentous feathers much as above described, but rather 

 shorter and more sparse, and scarcely appearing behind the eye and along 

 edge of side of lower jaw. Upper parts plumbeous black, sometimes slightly 

 interrupted in its continuity by a few whitish feathers about the scapulars ; 

 the primaries grayish black, paler on their inner webs ; secondaries grayish 

 white at their tips. Under parts white, as before, but very sparsely marbled 

 or waved with dusky; least so on the abdomen, most so on the sides and 

 breast, where the blackish so increases in amount as to appear more or less 

 continuous with that of the upper parts. Chin and s^des of jaw as above de- 

 scribed, but throat white, immaculate The dusky mottling varies greatly in 

 amount and in intensity with different specimens. Sometimes it is reduced 

 to a few isolated touches here and there, and again it is found to give the pre- 

 vailing color to the under parts. That specimens in this mottled condition 

 are not immature, is proven by the fact that the bill is fully grown and pro- 

 vided with a well developed tubercle; and that the forehead is thickly 

 covered with white setaceous feathers. The mottling, however, is confined 

 to the tips of the individual feathers, whose bases are pure white; aud is 

 thus apparently of a temporary and transient character, like that so frequently 

 met with in young or winter specimens of gulls and petrels. It may be a 

 seasonal feature, or one only found in birds of a certain age ; and yet nu- 

 merous facts tend to indicate it as a character of perfectly mature birds. 

 Were one to examine a specimen with the usual moderate amount of mottling 

 on the under parts, and notice the fact that the blackish occupies only the 

 tips of the feathers, he could not fail to be impressed with the analogy just 

 now hinted at, and to conclude that with advancing age the mottling would 

 grow less and less, and fina'ly disappear, leaving the under parts pure white, 

 as in pusilhts. Such, however, appears not to be the case. Specimens whose 

 age is attested by a fully developed bill and well formed tubercle, are those 

 most mottled below with blackish. And yet, no specimens have been found 

 with the breast or any other part of the under parts uninterruptedly black, 

 trenchantly divided from white areas. The peculiar kind of mottling exhib- 

 ited by this species is so unusual as a condition of perfect maturity, that the 

 suspicion arises that the very highest state of plumage is not yet known. 



Voting. — Entirely similar in plumage to the bird as just described ; but the 

 under parts white, scarcely relieved by mottling ; and the white extending 

 far around on the sides of the neck, leaving only a narrow median dorsal line 

 black ; the bill smaller than that of the adult, and the tubercle wholly vfant- 



1868.] 




48 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



ing, or very imperfectly developed; its place on the culmen being occupied 

 by a soft skinay covering like that on the nasal fosste. 



Specimens frequently occur in this condition. An understanding of its 

 precise import is somewhat complicated by the fAct that, although the tuber- 

 cle is entirely vranting, and the bill otherwise obviously undeveloped, the 

 head is well provided with the whitish setaceous feathers. Birds in such 

 condition might be confounded, on casual inspection, with 5. pitsillus. But 

 more careful examination will result in the observation, that the bill is far 

 too large, thick, and heavy to be that of pusillus ; that there is no conspicuous 

 white patch on the scapulars; that the size of the whole bird exceeds that of 

 pusillus; which points, in connection with some others which might be enu- 

 merated, will serve to distinguish the two species. Their relationships are 

 dwelt upon more at length in the succeeding article. 



When old birds of this species are moulting, in the fall, the glossy black 

 of the fresh feathers on the back is interrupted with dull grayish black 

 patches, formed by the old feathers which have not yet been renewed ; and 

 the old worn primaries and secondaries are dull grayish, fading almost into 

 grayish white at their tips and along their edges. A specimen in such a con- 

 dition, (No. 46,563, Smiths. Mus.) though palpably an old bird, has no trace 

 of a caruncle on the bill. 



It may not, perhaps, be exceeding due bounds, to hint at the possibility 

 that the nodule on the bill may be temporary in character, assumed after a 

 certain age, at a certain season, and then lost, wholly or in part, by absorp- 

 tion, to be again resumed at the same period of the following year, probably 

 during the season of reproduction. This suggestion presents itself to the 

 observer without straining on his part, and, in fact, is rather forced upon his 

 attention, after examination of specimens, apparently adult, in which no 

 trace of the tubercle is to be found. The tubercle is in essential character- 

 istics an extrinsic formation upon the bill, differing radically in its structure 

 from the rest of the organ. No good reason appears to forbid the supposi- 

 tion that its growth and subsequent re-absorption, maybe periodical. Argu- 

 ments for such a belief might readily be adduced in the periodical hyper- 

 trophy and atrophy of the combs, wattles, caruncles, and the various other 

 fleshy or cutaneous or semi-corneous growths about the head and bill of very 

 many birds, which enlarge during the breeding season, and afterwards 

 diminish or entirely disappear. It is also within the limits of possibility 

 that caruncles of this species is a sexual characteristic. The specimen above 

 mentioned, (No. 46,563,) is marked female. However close to, or remote 

 from, the truth either or both of the foregoing suggestions may be, it is cer- 

 tain that observed facts relating to the rostral knob of this bird are at vari- 

 ance with generally received doctrines about it, and are explicable by the ap- 

 |)lication of one or the other of the preceding hypotheses. At present we are 

 very much in the dark in the matter. 



Various ages, conditions of plumage and bill, of this species are well 

 represented by the numerous specimens in the Museum of the Philadelphia 

 Academy and of the Smithsonian Institution, from various localities along 

 the coasts and among the islands of the North Pacific. No specimens are 

 contained in any other American collection. 



The only questions of synonymy which arise in this case are connected 

 with the identification of Alca pygmoca, Gm., and are treated of under head 

 of S. pusillus. Prof. Brandt's name has priority over that of the Prince Bona- 

 parte, although the latter has come into more general employ than the former, 



SiMORHYNCHtJS PUSiLLtTs, {Pallas) Coues. 



1 Alca pj/f/mxa, Gmelin. S. N. i, pt. ii, 1788, p. 555, No. 12 ; " rostro nigro, 

 Venice, cervice, dorso, alls, cauda pedibusque obscuris, jugulo et pectore 

 glaucis, abdomine sordide albo. * * alee minor, 7 poll, longa," 



etc.— Based upon Pigmy Auk, Pennant, Arct. Zool. ii, p> 513, No. 431. 



£Jan. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



49 



Doaudorff, Beytr. Zool. ii, pt. i, p. 

 Zool. xiii, ]825, p. 48. Same as 

 Petersb. ii, 1837, p. 347. Quotes 



Habitat between Northern Asia and America. Latham, Ind. Orn. ii, 1790, 

 p. 790, No. ii. Same as Gmelin's species. Bonnaterre, Ency. Method. Ora. 

 1790, p. 33. Same as Gmelin's species. 

 825. Quotes Pennant and Latham. 



? Phaleris prjgmxa, Stephens, Shaws Gen. 

 Aha pygmcea, Gm. Lath. 



Phaleris pygmcea, Brandt, Bull. Acad. St. 



hoih Alca pygmxa Gm. and Uria pusilla Pall., which he considers as synony- 

 mous. Gray, Genera Birds iii, 1849, p. 638. Quotes Uria pusilln, Pall. 



Tylorhamphus pygniieas, Bonaparte Consji. Gav. Comptes Rendus, 185G. xlii. p. 

 774. Same as pusiNa, Pall. 



Uria pusil/a, Pallas, Zoog. R.-A. ii, 1811, p. 373, pi. 70, baud dubi^. " Fronte 

 brachiisque albo-notatis." 



Fkaleris pusilla, Cassin, Pr. A. N. S. Phila. 1862, p. 324. Elliot, B. N. Am. 

 1867, part vi. 



Phaleris (Ciceronia) pusilla, Cassin, Baird's B. N. A. 1868, p. 909. 



Asiatic and American coasts of the North Pacific. Kamtschatka, (Pallas.) 



Semiavine Straits (Mus. Smiths. Inst.) N. W. coast of America (Mus. Smiths. 



Inst.) Sitka, Russian Amer. (Mus. Pays-Bas, teste Schlegel.) 



In size the least of its genns, 

 and the smallest known nata- 

 torial bird. Length, (approxi- 

 mately correct) 5-50 inches ; ex- 

 tent of wings , wing from 



carpus to end of first primary 

 3-50; tail 1-10; tarsus -75, mid- 

 dle toe and claw 1-10; outer toe 

 and claw 1-00 ; inner toe and 

 claw -85 ; bill along culmen 

 •40; along rictus, -65; along 

 gonys -30; height at base •20; 

 width at same point the same 

 or slightly less. (Compare these 

 measurements, particularly of 

 Fig.\2.~SimorJ>i/nchuspusillus,(PaUas.) the bill, with those of S. micro- 



Nat. size. ceros.) 



With the usual /orm of the genus, except as to the bill, the shape of which 

 is specific. Bill without tubercles, or other irregularities of contour ; straight, 

 comparatively slender, compressed ; height at base much less than length 

 along culmen; width at base the same, or rather less than, height at same 

 point; the apex more acute than that of microceros ; the outline of culmen 

 at first straight, then slightly convexo-declinate ; commissure almost straight, 

 a little ascending anteriorly, still not sinuous in any part of its length ; gonys 

 lengthened, at first convex in outline, then rapidly ascending in a straight 

 line. Nasal fossa large, extending along the basal moiety ot the bill, reach- 

 ing from the culmen nearly to the tomia ; not deeply excavated; nostrils 

 small, narrow, linear, one eighth of an inch long, basal, lyingjust above the 

 commissural edge of the upper mandible. Frontal feathers running forward 

 some distance in a rather narrow angle on the culmen. retreating very rapidly 

 obliquely backwards and downwards on the sides of the upper mandible ; ex- 

 tending on sides of the lower mandible a little further than on upper. (It is 

 to be gathered from this description, more particularly, that the bill of pusil- 

 lus, compared with that of microceros, is fully as long; but slenderer, more 

 acute at the tip, less convex along culmen and gonys, more compressed in its 

 whole extent, and non-tuberculate.) 



Adult — Entire under parts pure white ; entire upper parts pure black, 

 only relieved as follows : The humeral and scapular feathers are, all of them 



1868.] 4 




50 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



or most of them, white or whitish in some portion or the whole of their 

 extent ; producing two patches of this color, not inaptly comparable to the 

 similar patches on the scapulars of Brachyrhamplnis Wrangeli, or Colli/rio 

 borealis, ia size, shape and general appearance. About half the secondaries, the 

 innermost ones, are quite conspicuously white on the tips of the outer web 

 for a fourth or a third of an inch. The forehead and lores, from the base of 

 the bill to the eyes and verte.x, are lineated (exactly as in microccros) with 

 sparse, distinct, Tery slender white setaceous feathers ; none are apparent, 

 among several specimens, behind the eye, or from the commissural angle of 

 the bill. Pallas tersely summed up these points of coloration of the upper 

 parts in saying " Fronte brachiisque albo-notatis ;" and the white about the 

 "arms" is a strong distinctive feature of the species in comparison with 

 microceros. The white of the under parts reaches far around on the side of 

 the neck ; on the side of the head it only extends on a level with the com- 

 missure ; it does not quite attain the base of the lower mandible, being cut 

 off from the bill by a small blackish-lead-colored area. There are indica- 

 tion of a small whitish spot just above and below the eye, formed of feathers 

 of the ordinary texture. The under wing coverts are wholly white, except 

 just along the edge of the forearm. The short tibial feathers are dusky 

 gray. Bill black, (as nearly as can be determined from the dried specimens,) 

 the base, gonys and tip of lower mandible yellowish. Posterior aspect of 

 tarsus, and inferior surface of toes and webs, blackish ; rest of legs and feet 

 a dull undefinable greenish-dusky (in the dried specimens.) 



The changes of plumage of this species are not known ; no other condition 

 than the one above described is represented by the specimens in the Smith- 

 sonian Institution, and none are contained, as far as known, in any other 

 American museum. No. 21,320 of the Smithsonian collection, obtained from 

 Capt. John Rodgers' expedition to the North Pacific, collected at Semiavine 

 Straits by Dr. Wm. Stirapson, is the one above described. No. 21,321, from 

 the same locality, is a younger bird, but entirely similar to 21,320, except that 

 it has a rather weaker bill, and only slight traces of the white setaceous feath- 

 ers on the forehead. No. 46,562, collected Sept. 9th, 1866, at Plover Bay, by 

 W. H. Dall, of the Western Union Company's Overland International Tele- 

 graph Expedition, a young bird, as shown by the soft feel of the feathers and 

 other features needless to detail, is referrible, with some degree of doubt, to 

 this species. The scapulars are very conspicuously white ; the secondaries 

 plainly tipped with white ; the under parts pure white, unspotted as in 

 typical pusillvs. The black of the upper parts is tinted, especially about the 

 head, with gray or plumbeous, and there are no traces of whitish setaceous 

 feathers on the forehead ; both of which features are to be attributed to the 

 juvenility of the specimen. The doubt in the case centres in the bill. This 

 oro-an has no trace of a tubercle, and is very small and weak, as usual in the 

 young pusillus : hut it see7ps to be deeper, and especially wider at the base, 

 compared with its length, than is the case with typical pusill us ; in these 

 points of shape approximating to microceros. But "seems to be" is the most 

 definite expression to be used in this case, for in the preparation of the spe- 

 cimen, or its subsequent drying or packing for transportation, the bill has 

 been injured, and so much distorted, that its true form cannot now be de- 

 termined with desirable precision. 



It cannot be denied that the relations that this species bears to microceros 

 are extremely intimate. So closely, in fact, does it approach the latter, that 

 its specific validity might fairly be called in question by one of conservative 

 views ; especially in consideration of the well-known fact, not to be disputed, 

 that the bills of all young Alcidx are much smaller and weaker, and even in 

 more striking points of form, conspicuously different from those of adult 

 birds ; and that a long time is required for their perfect development This 

 remark applies with especial force to the formation of the various knobs, 

 ridges, sulci, rictal callosities, and the other irregularities of surface. The 



[Jan. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 51 



mere presence or absence, therefore, of the node upon the base of the culmen, 

 cannot be allowed to constitute a specific character in the present case, and 

 may be left out of consideration, as may be, also, the color of the bill. Too 

 much stress should not be laid upon the presence of white scapulars and of 

 white tips to the secondaries, since in some specimens of undoubted microce- 

 ros unmistakable traces of the former are to be found, and the ends of the 

 inner secondaries are decidedly lighter than the body of the feathers. All 

 the observable differences iu the quantity and distribution of the whitish se- 

 taceous feathers upon the forehead and other parts of the head might readily 

 enough depend upon a difference in the age of specimens. The pure unin- 

 terrupted white of the under parts of />i«/WMs stands in apparently strong con- 

 tradistinction to the black mottling of the same parts of microcerus ; but it is 

 to be remembered that the coloration in this respect of the latter species is 

 very variable, ranging from a very sparse and scanty marbling to a nearly 

 uniform black, particularly upon the breast, and is therefore not to be too 

 implicitly relied upon, at least until it is more definitely ascertained than at 

 present whether the black mottling tends to decrease or to increase with ad- 

 vancing age. If microceros grows more and more marbled with black as it 

 grows older, we might with entire propriety presume upon the existence of a 

 youthful state of plumage, in which the under parts are entirely white, like 

 those of pusillus. Such is very likely the real state of the case ; for the 

 youngest examples of microceros examined — those which have no trace of a 

 tubercle — are nearly white below, only very sparsely and indistinctly mottled 

 with blackish. Still, aside from all these varying and therefore uncertain 

 points, there appear good grounds for separating the two species, as will be 

 observed on comparing the descriptions given in this and in the preceding 

 article. 



As the case stands with our present information upon the subject, P. pusil- 

 lus is to be separated from F. microceros: first, by certain differences posi- 

 tively known to occur : or, in size, which is decidedly less, as evidenced by 

 the measurement of all its dimensions ; b, in form of bill, which is slenderer, 

 more acute at the tip, not so deep at the base, particularly not so wide at the 

 base, yet not shorter, than that of microceros ; secondly, by certain differences 

 very constantly observed, yet not proven to always hold good : a, absence of 

 tubercle; 6, conspicuously white scapulars and tips of secondaries: c, pure 

 white under parts, uninterrupted by blackish mottling, and extending around 

 on the sides of the neck; d, shortness and scantiness of the white setaceous 

 feathers on the forehead ; e, color of bill, mostly black, not mostly red. 



It only remains to notice the synonymy of this species , and all that is to 

 be said on this score relates to the identification of Alca pygmxa Gm. This 

 name is founded upon the "Pigmy Auk" of Pennant, — a small species first 

 described very loosely and imperfectly by the latter writer, whose account 

 Gmelin merely renders into Latin, in applying a binomial name. There is 

 no doubt that the bird was one of the little Auks of the North Pacific, as its 

 very name, and the dimensions assigned (seven inches), clearly indicate, but 

 there is no possibility, at the present day, of identifying it with precision. It 

 was very possibly based either upon the present species or the preceding 

 (microceros), and should these two ever be united, as young and old of the 

 same, the name pygmma might without undue violence be assigned to the 

 species so constituted. So long as they are regarded as distinct, the name 

 pyymxus must not be applied to either of them. As far as we can judge by 

 the description, particularly the expression "jugulo et pectore glaucis," 

 pygmxa may not impossibly have been based upon Ptychoramphus alevticvs. 

 But Mr. Gassin's supposition is perhaps as near the truth as any that could be 

 advanced: " It is possible that the Pigmy Auk of Pennant, which \& Aka 

 pygrmea Gmelin. may be the young of this species [_microcrros'\, but it is more 

 probable, judging fiom the descriptions of Gmelin and Latham, that several 

 small species have been confounded under this name." The same gentleman 



1868.] 




52 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



also calls attention to the fact, that some of the expressions in the diagnoses 

 of the old authors have no basis in the characters of any Alcidine bird. Under 

 the circuraslances, it behooves us to ignore the name /)(////««« altogether, since 

 it cannot be identified; and to accept pu>iUlus of Pallas, to which no possibil- 

 ity of doubt attaches, as the proper name of the present species. 



PTYCHORHAMPHUS, Brandt. 



Uria, Pallas, Zoog. R.-A. 1811, ii, p. 370, in part; not of authors. 

 Plychorhaviphus, Brandt, Bull. Acad. Sc. St. Petersb. ii, 1837, p. 347. Type 



Uria aleutica, Pall. 

 Mcrgulus, Gambel, Pr. A. N. S. ii, 1842, p. 266, in part ; not of Ray, Vieill. 

 Arclica, Gray, Genera, iii, 1849, p. 638 ; in part ; not of Moehring. 

 Scinorhi/nchus, Schlegel, Mus. Pays-Bas, 1867, livr. ix, p. 26, in part ; not of 

 Merrem. 



Size moderate; general form stout; not crested, nor with any elongated 

 feathers about the head. Bill about two thirds as long as the head, three- 

 fourths as long as the tarsus, very stout, straight, somewhat conical in shape, 

 slightly if at all compressed, without nodes or irregularities, the tip acute ; 

 culmen very moderately declinato-convex in outline, the ridge broad, more or 

 less corrugated transversely at the base ; the sides of upper mandible bulg- 

 ing, the tomial edges inflected ; sides of lower mandible nearly upright, flat, 

 longitudinally grooved for the greater part of their length, their tomial edges 

 somewhat inflected; rictus straight; gonys straight, or nearly so, very long. 

 Nasal fossai long and wide, shallow, filled in with soft skin ; that of the two 

 fossffi meeting over the base of the culmen, and there corrugated as just de- 

 scribed ; nostrils rather long, narrowly oval, subbasal, opening at the lower 

 border of the fosste, the edge of the membrane that overhangs them elevated, 

 flaring. Frontal feathers in a nearly transverse line across the base of the 

 culmen, thence descending a little obliquely backwards, just behind the nos- 

 trils, to the commissure; those on lower mandible extending, in the inter- 

 ramal space (which they completely fill), to a point rather beyond a perpen- 

 dicular from those on culmen; then, encroaching very liltle on the sides of 

 the lower mandible, they retreat in a s'raight line rapidly backwards and 

 obliquely upwards. Wings moderately long, narrow, pointed, the primaries 

 somewhat falcate, narrowing rapidly at the tip to an acute point, first longest, 

 rest equably graduated. Tail short, broad, rounded, contained about three 

 and a half times in the length of wing from the carpal joint; the feathers 

 broadly rounded at their tips. Tasus much shorter than the middle toe 

 without its claw ; about two-thirds as long as the middle toe and claw; 

 greatly compressed, covered with small, very irregularly shaped polygonal 

 reticulations ; no large transverse scutellae. Outer lateral toe as long as, or 

 slightly shorter than the middle; its claw not reaching the tip of the middle 

 claw. Tip of inner claw reaching base of middle one. Claws compressed, 

 acute, moderately arched, the inner edge of the middle one dilated. 



This genus was instituted in 1837 by Prof. Brandt, for the reception of the 

 Uria aleutica of Pallas, its type and only species. It is strongly characterized 

 by the bill, which is of a shape not even approximating towards that of any 

 other Alcidine bird. Its points of structure in other respects are shared by 

 the majority of the family. 



Ptychorhamphus alkuticus, (/'«// ) Brandt. 

 Uria aleutica, Fa-Uiis, Zoog. R.-A. ii, 1811, p. 370. " Corpore supra fusco, 



subtus albo liturato, rostro producto, triplici plica inter nares." 

 Ptyrhorhamphus aleiilicus, Brandt, Bull. Acad. St. Petersb. ii, 1837, p. 347. Bo- 

 naparte, Tabl. Comp. Pelag. Compt. Rend., 1856, xlii, p. 774. Cassin, Baird's 

 B. N. A. 1858, p. 910. Heermann, Pac. R. R. Rep. x, 18^9, Route to Gala. 

 Birds, p. 75. Elliot, B. N. Am. part iv, 1867. 

 Fhaleris aleutica, Gray, Genera Birds, iii, 1849, p. G38. 



[Jan, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 53 



Simorhjjnchus aleutkus, Schlegel, Urinatores Mus. Pays-Bas, ix livr. 1867, p. 26. 

 Mergulus Cassinii, Gambel, Pr. A. N. S. Philada. ii, 1845, p. 266. Id., Jouru. 



A. N. S. Phila. 2d series, ii, 1850, pi. vi. 

 Arctica Cassinii, Gray, Gen. Birds, iii, 1849, p. 638. 



Pacific coast of North America, south to San Diego, California. Breeds on 

 the Farralone Islands. Aleutian Islands (Pallas), Russian America, and whole 

 west coast of the United States. (Mus. Smiths. Inst, and Acad. Philada.) 



Adult.— B\\\ black, base of lower mandible whitish or yellowish. Legs 

 anteriorly, and toes superiorly bluish ; legs posteriorly, and toes inferiorly, 

 with the membranes, blackish. A slight touch of white about the eyes. En- 

 tire upper parts blackish-plumbeous, the head, wings and tail nearly black. 

 This color, gradually diluted until it is much more grayish-plumbeous, ex- 

 tends around the under parts and sides of the head, the throat, upper part of 

 the breast, and whole sides of the body under the wings. Greater part of 

 breast, with abdomen and under tail coverts pure white ; the grayish plum- 

 beous of ihe upper breast merging very gradually into the white of the belly. 

 Under surface of wings dark lustrous gray. 



Young. — Very similar to the adult ; differing chiefly in being more decided- 

 ly blackish on the upper parts. 



Moulting specimens have the upper parts much duller and grayer, the old 

 wing and tail feathers faded, especially towards their tips, into light brown- 

 ish-gray. 



Length 8-00 to 9-50; extent 16-00 to 18-50 ; wing 4-75 to 5-25 ; tail 1-50 to 

 1 75 ; tarsus about 1-00 ; middle toe and claw 1-40 ; outer do. 1-30 ; inner do. 

 1-10; culmen -75 ; rictus -90; gonys -60 ; depth of bill opposite posterior ex- 

 tremity of nostrils -40 ; width -30. 



As regards color, this species is remarkably constant. Hardlj- any other 

 differences than those first noticed are to be found, after examination of exten- 

 sive series ; and they may all be summed up as merely varying shades of the 

 same color, and slight variation in its extent downwards upon the breast. The 

 bill at all ages and seasons presents its peculiar parti- coloration. These re- 

 marks, however, probably do not apply to fledgelings. As regards size, the spe- 

 cies is perhaps unusually variable, as may be seen by the measurements given 

 above, which represent extremes in those cases where two sets of figures are 

 given, and the average in other measurements. The bill, in particular, is 

 liable to great variation both in length and in stoutness. Some bills are very 

 large and robust, nearly as wide as high at the base, rather obtuse at the tip, 

 and with decidedly curved culmen and gonys ; others are longer in proj)ortion 

 to their transverse dimensions, decidedly compressed throughout, acutely 

 pointed, with almost straight culmen and gonys. The corrugations about the 

 base of the upper mandible are sometimes nearly obsolete, and when present 

 are very variable in character. Very likely they are hardly, if at all. apparent 

 in life ; for they seem to be produced mainly by the shrinking in drying of the 

 skin covering the nasal fossje and base of the culmen. All the variations ex- 

 hibited bj' the numerous specimens seem to be merely individual differences, 

 and are not sufficient to excite a suspicion that more than one species is repre- 

 sented in the series. 



Mergulus Cassinii Gambel (Arctica Cassinn Gray) is now well known to be 

 this species, first described by Pallas, as above quoted The species has no 

 other synonyms of consequence. Its striking peculiarities suffice to prevent 

 misconception regarding it. 



Subfamily URiNiE. 

 MERGULUS, {Ray) VieiU. 



Mergulus, Ray, Syn. Av. Vieillot, Analyse, 1816, and of authors. Type Alca 

 alle, Linn. 



1868.] 




54 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



riautus, Klein, Prod. At. p. 140. In part. 



Arctica^ Mcehring, Av Gen. 1752, p. G5. Tj-pe Plautus columbarius, Klein, Gray, 



Genera, iii, 1849, p. 644. Type Alca alle, Linn. 

 Alca, Linnasus, S. N., i, 1758. In part. 

 Ui-ia, Pallas, Zoog. R. A. 1811, ii. In part. 



Bill very short, culmen only three-fourths the tarsus, very stout, scarcely 

 compressed, obtuse at the tip, as wide as high at the base, the .sides of both 

 mandibles convex or vaulted, the tomial edge of the upper greatly inflected, the 

 culmen very convex in outline, with a broad flattened ridge, the rictus ample, 

 much decurved towards the end, the gouys straight, very short, the inferior 

 mandibular rami correspondingly elongated, widely divaricating, the interra- 

 mal space very broad, the nasal fossae short, wide, deep, partially feathered. 

 Nostrils subbasal, short, more broadly oval, or more nearly circular than in 

 any other genus except Synlldiborhimphus. Wings rather longer than usual in 

 this family, acutely pointed. Tail of ordinary length, much rounded, the fea- 

 thers rather narrow and subacuminate at tip. Feet small and weak ; tarsus 

 scarcely compressed, anteriorly broadly scutelHte, posteriorly finely reticulate. 

 Toes of the usual proportionate lengths. Size very small; general form very 

 compact, stout. 



A peculiar genus of the Alcidse, the most essential characters of which, as 

 usual in this family, are found in the bill, though the. other members otter some 

 appreciable, if not salient features. The squat bunchy shape of the single spe- 

 cies is very noticeable. 



This is the genus through which a certain type of structure found among the 

 Longipennes inosculates with the Pygopodes. The relationship of Pelecanoides 

 urinalriz to Mergulus alle is one of strong analogy, if not of actual affinity, as 

 has been elsewhere already pointed out by the writer.* Aside from the obvi- 

 ously Procellaridian characters of the bill, Pelecanoides (representing the sub- 

 family Ilalodroiiiinne) is strictly a Pygopodous genus, and is very nearly iden- 

 tical with Mergulus in all the details of external structure, and has much the 

 same general habitus. It is certainly the connecting link between the ma- 

 cropterous and brachypterous natatores, holding so strangely anomalous a 

 l^osiiion betwixt the two, that it cannot be with much propriety included under 

 either. It seems entitled to the rank of a family, to take place between the 

 Procellariidx and Alcidse. 



Mergulus alle, {Ray) Vieill. 



Mergulus melotioleucus, Ray, Syn. Av. p. 125. Stephens, Shaw's Gen. Zool. xiii, 

 1825, p. 345. Brandt, Bull. Acad. St.-Petersb. ii, 1837, p. 347. Brewer, oct. 

 ed. Wilson's Orn., with notes by Jardine, 1840, p. 658, fig. 315. Fleming, 

 Hist. Brit. Auim. 1842, p. 135. Thompson, Nat. Hist. Ireland, iii, 1851, 

 p. 218. 



Columba grcenlandica, " Albanus, Av. p. 81, pi. 85. Gunn., Act. Nidroff, i, p. 

 206, pi. 6." 



Plautus columbarius, Klein, Prod. Av. p. 146, No. 1. 



Alca alle, Liunseus, S. N. ed. x, i, 1758, p. 131, No. 6. Id. ibid. ed. xii, 1766, i, 

 p. 211, No. 5. Briinnich, Urn. Bor. 1764, p. 26, No. 106. Hermann, Tab. 

 Affin. Anim. p. 149. Miiller, Zool. dan. Prodr. p. 17, No. 142. Latham, Ind. 

 Orn. ii, 1790, p. 795, No. 10. Donndortf, Beytr. Zool. ii, pt. i, 1794, p. 823, 

 No. 5. — Donndorfi's Var. B is Candida Lath. — Wilson, Am. Orn. ix, pi. 74, 

 fig. 5. Schlegel, Urinatores Mus. Pays-Bas, ix livr. 1867, p. 20. 



Una alle, Pallas, Zoog. R.-A. ii, 1811, p. 369. Temminck, Man. Orn. ii, 1820, 

 p. 928. Bonaparte, Obs. Wils. 1826, No. 238. Audubon, Orn. Biog. v, 1838, 

 p. 304, pi. 339. 



Uria [Mergulus) alle, Bonaparte, Synopsis, 1828, p. 425. 



* Cf. Pr. A. N. S. Philada. May, 18G6, pp. 172, 189. 



[Jan. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 55 



Mergulus alle, Vieillot, Analyse, 1816, p. 66. Id., Gal. Ois. 1825, p. 236, pi. 

 295. Gould, Birds Eur. v, 1837, pi. 402. Macgillivray, Hist. Brit. Birds, ii, 

 1852, p. 341. Bonaparte, Coniptes Rendus, 1856, xlii, p. 774. Cassin, 

 Baird's B. N. A. 1858, p. 918. Boardman, Pr. Bost. Soc. N. H. Sept. 1862, 

 p. 131. Verrill, Proc. Essex Inst, iii, 1863, p. 160. Samuels, Ornith. and 

 Ool. of New England, 1867, p. 570. 

 Arctica alle, Gray, Gen. Birds, iii, 1849, p. 644. 

 Alcac.lce, Gmeliu, S. N. i, pt. ii, 1788, p 544, No. 5. 



Alca Candida, Briinnich, Orn. Bor. 1764, p. 26, No. 107. In pure white plu- 

 mage ; probably albino. 

 Mergulus arcticus, Brehm 



E: ropean and American coasts of the North Atlantic. On the United States 

 coast, in winter, south to New Jersey. Numerous specimens in Mus. Acad. 

 Philada., Smiths. Inst., Bost. Soc. Nat. Hist., Essex Inst., Gab. G. N.Lawrence, 

 author's Cab., etc. 



Adult, summer plumage. — Head and neck all around, and entire upper parts 

 glossy black, with a beautiful metallic lustre of a shade of blue, when in high- 

 est piumage ; scapulars edged with white ; shafts and inner webs of primaries 

 brown, lighter at base; secondaries tipped with white; under surfaces of the 

 wings brownish-gray; under parts from the breast pure white, with a few 

 elongated feathers of the sides' and flanks varied with black on the outer webs ; 

 bill black ; legs and feet posteriorly blackish, anteriorly flesh-colored (dull 

 j'ellowish in the dried state). 



Adult in winter. — As before ; the white of the under parts extending on the 

 neck and throat to the bill, on the sides of the head to the level of the rictus, 

 on the sides of the nape over the auriculars (where it is somewhat marbled 

 with black), or even to the middle of the nape, more or less confluent with 

 that of the other side 



Young, first winter. — Recognizable by its smaller and weaker bill, by the 

 duller and more brownish black of the upper parts, almost wanting in gloss, 

 and by the greater extension of the white upon the sides of the hind head and 

 neck. The scapulars and coverts are conspicuously marked with white, as in 

 the adult, The feet are mostly dusky. 



Length 8*50 ; wing 4-75 ; tail 1-50 ; tarsus -80 ; middle toe and claw 1-20, 

 outer do. 1-15, inner do. -85; bill along culmen -50, rictus TOO, gonys -20; its 

 depth at base -35, its width at same point about the same. 



When in mature plumage, this is a very beautiful species. No other Alci- 

 dine has such lustre of the dorsal plumage, traces of which are even found in 

 adult winter specimens. In the latter the extent of the black upon the throat 

 is indicated by a dusky clouding of the bases of the feathers of the parts. The 

 species is ordinarily subject to only moderate variation in size or colors. The 

 condition of albinism has been described. 



The first chronicles of this species are of great antiquity. It appears to have 

 shared for a time with Uria giylle the soubriquet of " Columba groenlandica." 

 Since its description as Alca alle by Linnieus, it has been the basis of very few 

 synonyms. Alca Candida of Briinnich is this species in the albino state. Mer- 

 gulus niclanoleucus, Ray, is adopted by many authors. Mr. G. R. Gray adopts 

 Moehring's generic appellation. 



SYNTHLIBORHAMPHUS, Brandt. 



Alca, Gmelin, S. N. i, 1788, p. 554, and of the older authors, in part. 



Uria, Pallas, Zoog. R -A. ii, 1811, and of some authors, in part. 



Fratercula, Stephens, Shaw's Gen. Zool. xiii, 1825, in part. 



Synlhlihorhamphus, Brandt, Bull Acad. St. Petersb. ii, 1837. (Type Alca anti- 



qua, Gm.) Subgenus oi' Brac/n/rhamphus, Brandt. 

 Mergulus, Vigors, Zool. Voy. Blossom, 1839, in part. 



1868.] 




56 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Arclica, Gray, Generr., iii, 1849, in part. 



Anohapton, Bonaparte, Comptes Rendus, 1856, xlii. p. 774, in part. 



Size moderate or rather small ; general form stout, compact; head with or 

 without a crest ; bill somewhat as in Brar/iyr/xunphi/s, but much stouter, and 

 shorter for its depth ; much compressed throughout, depth at base about half 

 the length of cnlmen, ciilmen and gonys moderately curved, gonys straight, 

 ascending; nasal fossiie small and shallow; nostrils subbasal, broadly oval or 

 nearly circular, as in Merffulus, feathered ; feathers extending to about the same 

 distance on culmen and keel ; on both mandibles retreating rapidly backwards 

 from the point of their furthest extension ; those on the upper passing just by 

 the nostrils, but not covering the latter. Wings of usual size and shape in this 

 group ; secondaries very short, as in Brachyrhamphvs, the tip of the longest not 

 reaching much more than half-way from the carpal joint to the end of the first 

 primary in the closed wing. Tail of usual length, short, broad, nearly square, 

 or very slightly rounded, the feathers very broadly rounded at tip. Tarsi much 

 compressed, anteriorly and laterally transversely scutellate, posteriorly reticu- 

 late ; about as long as the middle toe without its claw. Outer toe as long as 

 or rather longer than the middle ; its claw smaller than that of the middle ; 

 tip of inner claw reaching base of middle. Claws small, short, compressed, 

 moderately curved and acute, the inner edge of the middle one somewhat di- 

 lated. 



With the general appearance oi Brachyrhamphiis, this genus differs from the 

 latter in the bill and feet. The bill is deeper at the base, and more compressed 

 throughout ; the feet are still more different, having very broad transverse scu- 

 tellation on the anterior face of the tarsus, instead of polygonal reticulation ; 

 and are larger, both relatively and absolutely, with longer, much more com- 

 pressed tarsi than in Brachyrhamphus. The type of the genus is the old Alca 

 antiqua Gm. A second species occurs, which differs from the type, as far as 

 form is concerned, in a slenderer bill, and in the presence of a conspicuous 

 crest. 



Species. — (2.) 



Not crested ; bill stout, depth at base more than half the length 

 of culmen ; white on sides of vertex not extending in ad- 

 vance of the eyes antiquus. 



Crested ; bill slender, depth at base about equal to half the 

 length of culmen ; white on sides of vertex extending aloug 

 sides of forehead nearly to the bill.. wurmizusuine. 



Syxthliborhamphus antiquus, [Gmel.) Brandt. 



AJca antiqua, Gmelin, S. N. i, pt. ii, 1788, p. 554. No. 11. Based upon Antient 

 Auk, Pennant, Arct. Zool. 1785, ii, p. 512, No. 430. Latham, Ind. Orn. ii, 

 1790, p. 795, No. 9. Donndorff, Beytr. Zool. ii. pt. i, 1794, p. 824. Schlegel, 

 Urinatores Mus. Pays-Bas, livr. ix, 1867, p. 21. 



Fratercula antiqua, Stephens, Shaw's Gen. Zool. xiii, 1825, p. 42. 



Uria antiqua, Temminck and Schlegel, Fn. Japon. 1845, pi. 80. Audubon, 

 Orn. Biogr. v, 1839, p. 100, pi. 402, fig. 12. Id. B. Amer. vii, 1844. 



Brachyrharnphun {Si/nthliborliamphti.") ajitiqinm, Brandt, Bull. Acad. St. Petersb. 

 ii, 1837, p. 347. 'Cussin, Baird's B. N. A. 1858, p. 916. 



Brnchyrhamphun antiquus. Gray, Gen. Birds, iii, 1849, p. 644. . 



Anohapton [Synthliborhamphus) antiquus, Bonaparte, Consp. Gav. Comptes Ren- 

 dus, 1856, xlii, p. 774. 



Uria senicula, Pallas, Zoog. R.-A. ii, 1811, p. 369, pi. 85. 



Mergulus drrhocephalus, Vigors, Zool, Voy. Blossom, 1839, Birds, p. 32. 



Arctica cirrhocephala, Gray, Gen. Birds, iii. 1849, p. 644. 



[Jan. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 57 



American and Asiatic Coasts of the North Pacific. Kamtschatka, Japan 

 Seas. Sitka, Russian America, (Mus. Smiths. Inst.) Mas. Acad. Philada. 



With the form, etc, typical of the 

 genus, as above described. 



Adult, high breeding plumage, (No. 

 46558, Mus. Smiths. Sitka, R. A.) Bill 

 whitish, or yellowish, culmen and base 

 of both mandibles abruptly black ; legs 

 and feet anteriorly a])parently whitish, 

 or yellowish ; posteriorly, with both sur- 

 faces of the webs, black. Head all 

 Fig.l3.—^y»W(i/6or/,amp;(wsan<!3!(M«,(Gmel.) around, and throat, black; pure and 

 Nat. size. intense above, on the sides below, chin 



and throat, tinged with fuliginous brown. A conspicuous stripe of pure white 

 beginning over each eye, and extending backwards over the sides of the occi- 

 put, connected across the nape by some white feathers, and spreading on the 

 sides and back of the neck, as a large disconnected series of trenchantly de- 

 fined white streaks. Trace of white on each eyelid. Entire upper parts clear 

 dark plumbeous, blackening on the upper tail coverts and tail. Upper surface 

 of wings the same, or rather darker, the edge of the wing all along from the 

 elbow, and the exposed parts of primaries, blackish ; entire under surface of 

 wings white, except just along the edges where it is mottled with dusky ; the 

 basal portion of the inner webs and shafts of primaries whitish ; secondaries 

 like the wing coverts, or rather darker, their bases whitish. Sides of the body 

 under the wings pure velvety black, in marked contrast to the clear plumbeous 

 of the upper parts and white of the lower. These black feathers are poste- 

 riorly greatly elongated, reaching quite to the tail, and overlying the sides of 

 the rump and the flanks, which latter, however, are seen to be pure white on 

 raising the elongated supercumbent feathers. This black along the sides 

 extends anteriorly in front of the wings, and, still strongly contrasted with the 

 plumbeous of the interscapulars, continues on as a band quite to the nape, 

 which it crosses to become confluent with its fellow of the opposite side. On 

 the sides of the neck it is thickly marked with the pure white streaks already 

 described. The fuliginous black of the chin and throat is continuous with that 

 of the sides of the head as far as the anriculars ; further on it merely extends 

 as a point along the middle of the throat, being separated from the black of 

 the sides of the nape by a large white area, an extension to the anriculars of 

 the white which is the color of the whole under parts except the sides under 

 the wings, as already described. 



Length 9-50 to 10-50; extent 16-75 to 18-25; wing 5-50; tail 1-60; bill 

 along culmen -60, along rictus 1-20, along gonys -40, depth at base -30, width 

 •20; tarsus 1-00 ; middle toe and claw 1-25, outer do. 1-15, inner do. 1-00. 



Younger. — Bill and feet as above described. " Iris brown," (label). Upper 

 parts as in the adult, but darker, the plumbeous being obscured by dusky, 

 especially on the wing and tail coverts, and lower back. Forehead, crown, 

 nape, and back of neck, sooty black, entirely unrelieved by white streaks, 

 or with only traces of the latter on the sides of the occiput. Eyelids some- 

 times largely white. No black on the throat or chin ; traces of it in a dusky 

 mottling about the base of the bill. White of under parts extending on sides 

 of head below and behind nearly to the eyes, and far around on the sides of 

 the nape, so that only a median nuchal line is left blackish. Sides of body 

 under the wings not pure black, but merely dusky plumbeous, and this not 

 continuous on the feathers over the flanks, these being in some part white, 

 producing a white and plumbeous variegation. The line of this dusky plum- 

 beous hardly extends in front of the wings to the sides of the neck. Under 

 parts white, as before, the bases of the inner webs of the primaries rather more 

 white than in the adult. 



1868.] 




58 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



The above described differences between the adult and young are very de- 

 cided, and might suggest a distinction of species, were not various means 

 between the extremes forthcoming. Beyond these variations in plumage the 

 species is very constant in characters, with the exception of the bill. This 

 differs a good deal as to its size and shape ; but nevertheless usually preserves 

 the specific characters which distinguish it from that of Wurmizusume. Thus 

 the difference in length between the bills of two perfectly mature examples, 

 absolutely identical in plumage, and in all other respects, save length of bill, 

 amounts to a tenth of an inch along the culmen. This difference being 

 unaccompanied by a corresponding difference in depth and width, gives a 

 readily appreciable difference in shape of the bill. 



The only species to which the present bears any special resemblance is 

 Wurmizusume. The comparative characters of the latter are dwelt upon at 

 length in the article immediately succeeding. 



It is barely possible that two distinct species may be confounded in the 

 synonymy adduced at the head of this article, and that the bird here described 

 is not the veritable Alca nntiqua, Gm., (" Antient auk" of Pennant.) In the 

 description of these authors the upper parts are said to be dusky or sooty 

 black, whereas, as will be seen by the description, the subject of the present 

 article has these parts clear plumbeous. But we have just seen that the young 

 of the present bird has the upper parts decidedly darker and duller than the 

 adult; in fact tending, especially upon the wings and lower back, to dusky. 

 The limits within which the species is known to vary in this respect are suffi- 

 ciently wide to allow its reference to the bird of Pennant, Latham and Gmelin ; 

 especially when it is remembered that the particular descriptive terms used by 

 these authors may not have been criticallj' correct. It seems unnecessary, and it 

 would be, perhaps, unjustifiable to attempt to discriminate the present species 

 from Alca aniigua, upon the grounds just mentioned. They had best be re- 

 garded as the same, at least until suites of specimens may determine the exis- 

 tence of two species, differing in the particulars above mentioned. No indica- 

 tions of a distinction of species can be found in the extensive series of speci- 

 mens at present contained in American collections. 



This species, in the condition here described as that of the adult, is the 

 Uriel senicula, Pallas; and should bear the name of Siftithl iborhamphus seniculus 

 in the event of its not proving the same as Alca antiqua, Gm. Mergulus 

 cirr/iocephahis, Vigors, [Arctica cirrhocephala, Gray,) is the same bird, in the 

 same condition of maturity. The species has no other synonyms of conse- 

 quence, except those resulting from its reference to several different genera. 



In breeding plumage it is a very handsome bird, being in fact — with the ex- 

 ception of Wurmizusume — the handsomest of the Urinse. It is of frequent 

 occurrence along the coast and among the islands of the North Pacific ; extend- 

 ing, on the Asiatic side, to Japan, and on the American, to Washington Terri- 

 tory, U. S. It apparently migrates southward in winter. It breeds in the 

 vicinity of Sitka, R. A. It is well represented bj^ numerous specimens in the 

 collections of the Philadelphia Academy and of the Smithsonian Institution. 

 It has been figured by Temminck and Schlegel, and by Audubon. 



Synthliborhamphus Wurmizdsume, (Temm.) Coues. 



Uria Wurmizusume, Temminck, PI. Color, No. 579. Temminck and Schlegel, 



Fn. Japon, 1845. pi. 79. 

 Anobaptoii {Si/n/hliborhamphus) Wurmizusume, Bonaparte, Tab. Comp. Pelag. 



Comptes Rendus, 1856, xlii, p. 774. 

 Brachyrhamphus [Synthliborlunnphus) Temminckii, Brandt, Bull. Acad. St. Pe- 



tersb. ii, 18:^7, p. 347. Cassin, Baird's B. N. A. 1858, p. 916. 

 Brachyrharnphus Temminckii, Gray, Gen. Birds, iii, 1849, p. 644. Cooper and 



Suckley, Pac. Rr. Rep. xii. p. ii, 1860, p. 287. Elliot, B. N. Am. part vi, 1867. 

 Alca Temminckii, Schlegel, Urinat. Mus. Pays-Bas. livr. ix, 1867, p. 22. (Jajian.) 



[Jan. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



59 



Asiatic and American Coasts 

 of the North Pacific; south to 

 Japan and Washington Terri- 

 tory, U. S. Specs, in Mus. 

 Acad. Philadelphia, and Mus. 

 Smiths. Inst. 



Bill more slender and elon- 

 gated than in the type of the 

 genus, the depth at base less, 

 and the compression not so 

 great, the sides of the bill being 

 less vertical ; rictus nearly 

 Fig. li..—SyHthlihor!iampJ,its Wiirmiziisume, (Temm.) Straight. Rather larger than ^S". 

 Nat. size. antiquus. 



Adult. — Bill decidedly yellow, (in the dried state,) the ridge of upper mandi- 

 ble alone black. Feet dull livid bluish, the weljs dusky, (feet dusky yellowish 

 in the dried state ) "Eye brilliant gray, iris black " (label). A large con- 

 spicuous crest springing from the extreme forehea-d of a dozen, (more or 

 fewer) slender elongated features, not recurved, but extending straight back- 

 wards quite to the occiput. A large conspicuous series of white feathers on 

 each side of the top of the bead, extending from the base of the crest, on the 

 forehead far in advance of the eyes, to the side of the nape ; tliere more or 

 less confluent with each other, and then dispersed as isolated white streaks 

 over the sides of the neck to the shoulders. In many specimens, however, 

 apparently quite adult, these white stripes are hardly, if at all, apparent 

 beyond the nape. Rest of head, including chin and upper part of throat 

 sooty or fuscous blackish, sometimes with a cinereous tint ; this color extend- 

 ing as far as the interscapular region, from which point the upper parts are 

 more decidedly plumbeous, only the wings and tail being somewhat darker and 

 more fuscous. Sides under the wings plumbeous black quite to the flanks ; 

 this color also extending forward in front of the wings and continuous with 

 that of the sides of the neck and head. Under surface of wings pure white, 

 except a little dusky clouding along the edge ; bases of primaries, and the 

 greater portion of their inner webs white, deepening very gradually through a 

 continuously deepening shade of brownish gray, into dusky at the tips. 

 Entire under parts (except the sides, as just described) pure white. 



Length 10-50 to 11-00; extent 18-00 to 18-50; wing 5-50; tail l-VS; tarsus 

 1-00 ; middle toe and claw 1-25, outer ]-20, middle 1-00 ; bill along culmen -70, 

 rictus 1-10 ; gonys -40 ; height at base -25 to -30, width about tlie same. 



Younger. — Bill and feet as above ; (bill sometimes, however, wholly blackish.) 

 Without a crest ; no white feathers about head, or only slight traces thereof. 

 Face, including region just about the base of the bill, both above and be'ow, 

 crown and sides of the head to the level of the commissure, with nape and 

 back of neck, plumbeous duskj- ; other upper parts, particularly the wings, 

 the same, but most of the back with a more decided tint of plumbeous. Under 

 wing coverts and primaries as in the adult. Sides uuder the wings narrowly 

 fusco-plumbeous, the lengthened feathers over the flanks variegated with 

 white. Entire under parts otherwise white ; this color extending far around 

 on the sides of the upper neck, nape and occiput. 



Considerable variation in plumage as well as in size, and to a degree, in 

 shape of bill, is exhibited by the numerous specimens examined. The differ- 

 ences in the bill are chiefly those of size, the relative proportions of the 

 various measurements being pretty constantly preserved. The bill is always 

 slenderer, and usually longer than that of an lit/ uus, approaching in this respect 

 the bills of the true Brachyrhauiphi. The size of the whole bird varies some- 

 what, hut not to any remarkable degree. In apparently equally adult speci- 

 mens, tlie two series of white feathers, which form conspicuous stripes on the 

 sides of the vertex and nape, vary much in length. Sometimes they spread 



1868.] 




60 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



out on the sides of the hind-neck to almost as great an extent as is witnessed 

 in the most highly plumaged specimens of anliquus ; again they may stop 

 abruptly on the occiput, or at least on the nape. The comparative amounts 

 of dusky and plumbeous on the upper parts is various, as is also the intensity 

 of either of these hues. Thus a specimen, (No. — Phila. Acad., from Japan,) 

 has tlie upper parts including the wing coverts bluish ashy, or bluisli plumbe- 

 ous, light enough to form a marked contrast with the band of nearly black 

 which crosses the nuchal region, and descends on either side under the wings. 

 In this specimen, also, the bill is blackish, although it is evidently an adult bird, 

 having a crest an inch long. There is sometimes much white on the eyelids, 

 sometimes none. The outline of the white on the sides of the hind head and of 

 the neck varies; the younger the bird, the more the white encroaches on these 

 parts. 



It is not ascertained positively that the crest which so stronglj^ characterizes 

 perfect specimens of this species as a constant feature, that is, obtained at a 

 certain age, and ever afterwards worn. Very possibly, it is onlj^ assumed 

 during the breeding season ; and falls off afterwards, so that perfectl}^ adult 

 winter specimens may be without it. It is at all events not to be enumerated 

 among the infallible diagnostic points of the species. 



Compared with S. anliquus, the species is at once distinguished, when in adult 

 breeding plumage, by the presence of a crest, and the different extent of the 

 white stripes and streaks upon the head, nape and neck. (Consult debcriptions 

 above given.) These diflfereuces aside, it is a larger bird, on an average, 

 though some specimens do not exceed in size some examples of antlquus. The 

 bill is slenderer, though not necessarily longer, more acute at the tip, com- 

 paratively not so deep at the base, and rather less compressed, the culmen, 

 rictus and gonys straighter. The identification of very young birds, however, 

 is sometimes attended with difficulty ; and some specimens in the present col- 

 lections cannot, in fact, be satisfactorily determined. This state of affairs, 

 however, is by no means unparalleled in other cases of perfectly distinct spe- 

 cies ; and by no means militates against the belief in the specified distinction 

 of the two birds now under consideration. The adults cannot by any possi- 

 bility be mistaken for each other. 



This species is well represented in all its variety, by numerous specimens in 

 the collections of the Philadelphia Academy and the Smithsonian Institution ; 

 though not contained, as far as heard from, in any other American cabinets. 

 It is of frequent occurrence on the coasts of the North Pacific, and appears to 

 be particularly abundant in the vicinity of Japan, whence most of the speci- 

 mens described or recorded have been obtained. Its occurrence on the coast 

 of the United States is open to question. Several specimens of S. antiquus fat 

 least of the bird described in this jiaper under this name) are in our collec- 

 tions from Washington Territory, labelled " Brachyrhamphus Tcmminckii,'' 

 and these appear to represent the species whose habits, etc., are alluded to by 

 Drs. Cooper and Sucklej^, volume twelve, part ii, of the Pacific Railroad Re- 

 ports, (Nat. Hist. Wash. Terr. p. 287, above cited) under the name of Brachy- 

 rhainphus Teviminckii. But the description there given is that of the true 

 Te/iniiinckii, having been copied from Mr. Cassin's article on the " Birds of 

 North America." 



The name which heads this article has priority over " Temminckii " of 

 Prof. Brandt, and is therefore to be adopted, though its barbarous character is, 

 assuredly, a matter of regret. It varies iu orthography with different writers. 



BRACHYRHAMPHUS, Brandt. 

 Colymhus, Gmelin, S. N. i, l^SS ; in part ; not of authors. 

 Uria, Latham, Ind. Orn. ii, 1790; in part ; not of authors. 

 Cepphits, Pallas, Zool. R. A. ii, 1811, in part. 

 Brachyrhamphus, Brandt, Bull. Acad. St. Petersburg, ii, 1837. Type Colymbus 



marmoratus, Gm. 

 Apobapton, Brandt, 1. c. Same type. 

 Anobapion, Bonaparte, Comptes Rendus, xlii, 1856. Same type. 



[Jan. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. Gl 



With the general habitus of Uria proper, but of much more delicate build, 

 different ])attern of coloration, and very small size. Bill small, slender, much 

 shorter than the head, not longer than the tarsus, greatly compressed, acutely 

 tipped ; culmen gently curved, its ridge sharj), rictus nearly straight, gonys 

 straight ; tomial edge of upper mandible greatly inflected towards the base, 

 notched near the tip. Is'asal lossffi small and shallow, nearly filled with 

 feathers, which mostly cover the extremely minute oval nostrils. Wings of 

 ordinary length, very narrow, pointed, falcate, the secondaries extremely short. 

 Tail of ordinary length, almost square, the feathers obtusely rounded. Feet 

 very small, short, slender, and weak ; tarsus scarcely compressed, variable in 

 length, never longer than the middle toe without its claw (except in brachyp- 

 terus f) Outer and middle toes equal in length ; the claw of the former much 

 smaller than that of the latter ; the inner very short, its claw not reaching 

 the base of the middle claw. Claws small, weak, moderately curved, very 

 acute. 



The genus which comprises the Murrelets — to coin an English word, needed 

 for the Brachyrhainphi, — is a very natural and strongly marked one. It comes 

 nearest to Una proper, from which, however, it is sufficiently distinguished, as 

 will be seen by the above diagnosis. It contains four or five species, all inhab- 

 itants of the North Pacific, and more particularly of the west coast of North 

 America. These may readily be diagnosticated as follows : — 



Species : — (5.) 



I. Tarsus much shorter than the middle toe without its claw. 



Upper parts blackish and chestnut, lower parts blackish 



and white 1. marmoratus. 



Upper parts cinereous and white, lower parts pure 



white 2. Wrangelii. 



II. Tarsus just as long as the middle toe without its claw. 



Under surface of wings white 3. hypoleucus. 



Under surface of wings dusky 4. Craveri. 



III. Tarsus longer than the middle toe without its claw, (teste 



Brandt) b.brachypterus f 



Bkachyrhamphus marmoratus, (Gni.) Brandt. 



Coli/mhus marmoratus^ Graelin, Syst. Nat. i, 1758, p. 583, No. 12, Based on the 



marbled guillemot, Pennant,* Arct. Zool. ii, p. 517, pi. 22, and Latham, Syn. 



vi, p. 33ti, pi. 96. Donndorff, Beytr. Zool. ii, pt. i, 1794, p. 870. 

 Uria marmorata, Latham, Ind. Orn. ii, 1790, p. 799. Stephens, Shaw's Gen. 



Zool. xii, 1824, p. 249. Bonaparte, Synopsis, 1828, p. 423. 

 Bruchyrhamphus [Apobapton) marmoratus, Brandt, Bull. Acad. St. Petersburg, 



ii, 1837, p. 346. Cassin, Birds N. A. 1858, p. 915; in part. Description 



of supposed adult is that of B. Wrangeli. 

 Brachyrhamphus marmoratus, Gray, Genera Birds, iii, 1849, p. 614. Cooper and 



Suckley, Nat Hist. Wash. Terr. 1860, p. 286, in part. Not the description 



of supposed adult, which is that of B. Wranyeli. 

 Anobapton ( Brachyrhamphus) marmoratus, Bonaparte, Tabl. Comp. Pelagiens, 



Comptes Rendns, 1856, xlii, p. 774. 

 Cepph :s pcrdix, Pallas, Zoog. R.-A. ii, 1811, p. 351, pi. 80. 

 Uria Towmendii, Audubon, Orn. Biogr. v, 1839, p. 251, pi. 430; octavo ed. vii, 



1844, pi: 475. The figure of the supposed young is the adult ; that of sup- 

 posed adult may be really B. Wranyelii. 



* "With a black bill ; crown dusky; throat, breast, and belly mottled with black and 

 white ; iMck and sides very glossy, and marbled with Black and rust-color; wings dusky ; 

 greater coverts edged With wliile; tail black ; legs yellow; webs black. Length 1) inches." ■ 

 Pennant, 1. c. From Prince William Sound. Of this species, VielUot, tNouv. Diet, xiv, 

 1817, p. 36,) not exhibiting great sagacity, remarks, that it is " une jeuue guillemot grylle, 

 qui commence k prendre lu livree de I'adultel" 



1868.] 




62 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



? Uria hrevirostris, Vigors,* Zool. Journ. iv, 1828, p. 357, and Zool. Beechey'a 

 Toy. Blossom, 1839, Ornilh, p. 32. Evidently a young bird ; may be of this 

 species, or of B. Wran(/eli, 



? Brachyrhamphm Kialit2u,f Brandt, Bull. Acad. So. St. Petersburg, ii. 1837, p. 

 346. Young bird ; may be of this species, or of Wrangeli^ or a distinct 



species. 



Coasts and Islands of the North Pacific. On the American side, south in 

 winter to California ; breeds as far south as Vancouver's Island. Numerous 

 specimens in Mus. Acad. Philada., Mus. Smiths. Inst., Cab. G. N. Lawrence. 



Form typical of the genus as just described. Bill along culmen just the 

 length of the tarsus, tarsus scarcely three-fourths the middle toe without its 

 claw. 



Adult, breeding plumage. (Description from No. 49655, Mus. Smiths. Inst,, ^, 

 June 9, 1867, Vancouver's Island. ;]: Bill black. Tarsi posteriorly and both 

 surfaces of the webs blackish ; legs anteriorly and toes superiorly livid flesh 

 color, or dull bluish gray. Iris brown. Entire upper parts brownish black, 

 everywhere transversely barred with chestnut brown, or bright rust color, 

 except on the wings, which are uniform brownish black, the primaries darkest, 

 their inner webs brownish grey towards the base. Under surface of wings 

 smoky brownish black. A few whitish feathfers variegated with chestnut and 

 dusky on the scapulars. Entire under parts, including sides of head, neck 

 and body, marbled with sooty brownish black and white. The feathers are 

 white, with the tips of the dark color. The white rather predominates on the 

 middle of the breast and belly, the dusky on the other parts ; the latter color 

 being nearly uniform across the throat, and on the long feathers of the sides 

 and flanks. 



Specimens vary a great deal in the precise amount of rusty brown on the 

 upper parts, and of dusky mottling on the lower ; but, so far as known, are 

 never without this distinctive coloration in some degree ; and it becomes 

 heightened at the breeding season.. 



Length about 10-00 ; extent about 18-00 ; wing 5-00; tail 1-50 ; tarsus -70 ; 

 middle toe 1-00, its claw -20 ; outer toe and claw 1-15, inner do. -90 ; bill along 

 culmen -70, along rictus 1-35, along gonys -55, heighth opposite base of nos- 

 trils -25, width at same point -20. 



This species was originally described by Pennant as the Marbled Guillemot, 

 whence Colymbus marmoratus, Gm. His description is that of the adult, in 

 breeding plumage, but has been almost universally supposed to refer only to 

 the young; and a very different species has been usually held to be the adult, 

 as shown in the next article. It is also evidently the Cepphus perdix of 

 Pallas. 



* " U. suprk griseo-fusca, capite, dorsoque albo notati.s ; subtus alba, fusco undulatim 

 maculata, rectricibns albi.s, duabiis mediis fuseo-notatis, rostro brevi, gracili. — AUe supri 

 et infrk, teetricesque iuferiore.s fusepe. Rostrum nigrum. Pedes flavi, membrani.s ungui- 

 busque brunneis. Longitude corporis 9 ; rostri ad frontem }^, ad rictum IJ/g, alse 5^/4 ; 

 caudse 1 ; tarsi 34." Vigors, 1. c. From San Bias. 



f' Supra cinerea nigrioante et pallide e fusco-flavescente undulata et submaeulata. 

 Subtus alba, subfuscescente tenuissime lavata, nigro etquidemin pectore frequentius un- 

 dulata. Alse e einerascente et fasco nigrie. Rostrum brevissimum, capitis longitudinis 

 tertiam partem circiter ad;iequans. Tarsi digito medio breviores. Longitudo a rostri 

 apice ad caudse apicem 9. Patria Kamtschatka," — Brandt, 1. c. 



X The following is an extract from a letter to Prof. Baird, from J. Hepburn, Esq., dated 

 Victoria, Septs 5, 18(17, which accompanied a lot of specimens of which No. 49655 was one. 

 It confirms the views maintained in the present paper, and gives some interesting facts : 

 "You will find in the liox a specimen of B. marmoratus. On comparing it with Mr. Cassin's 

 description, (ia Birds N. A.) I find it is what he calls the young bird. In this he is mista- 

 ken. In the first place, if such were the case we should see some red birds among the 

 large numbers that are to be found here, whereas till this year I never saw but one speci- 

 men, * * In the next place, when I fell in with them last May, every bird was in 

 the red plumage, including the one which, as I told you, would have laid an egg in two 

 or three days ; and lastly, proof conclusive, I have shot the young bird, two-thirds grown, 

 in the winter plumage of the adult, except that the breast is more thickly barred tlian in 

 any specimens I have seen in the winter, and at the very time the adults were in their 

 red plumage." 



[Jan. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 63 



Audubon's figure and description of the supposed young of this bird, under 

 the name of Uria Townsendii, is really that of the adult. His figure of the 

 supposed adult appears rather to represent Wrangeli. 



It is difficult, perhaps impossible, to determine Uria hrevirostris Vigors. This 

 is evidently, as far as can be judged by the description, a young bird. It be- 

 longs to the short-legged group of the present genus ; but whether it is the 

 young of ?narmor at us or of Wrangeli^ is a point which cannot be decided. The 

 expression "cajjite dorsoque albo-notatis,'' and the absence of any mention 

 of rust-color in the description, would lead one to assign it rather to 

 Wrojigeli. 



Brachyrhamphus Kittlitzii, Brandt, is another bird which has not been identi- 

 fied since its original description. Like U. brevirostris, it is evidently a young 

 bird, of the short-legged group; and the expression " fusco-flavescente undu- 

 lata" induces the presumption that it is really only a young mnrmoratus. But 

 it is possible that both it and B. brevirostris may be the young of the same spe- 

 cies, or of two different species, which yet remain to be identified. It is not 

 probable, however, that either of these names represent valid species, distinct 

 from each one of those recognized in this paper. 



Brachyrhamphus Wrangeli, Bratidt. 



Brachyrhamphus Wrangelii, Brandt, Bull. Acad. St. Petersburg, ii, 1837, p. 

 344. " Rostrum capitis dimidii circiter longitudine. Caput supra, nucha et 

 dorsum e nigricante grisea. Ahv et cauda nigra?. Reliqute partes, nee uon 

 stria longitudinalis supra alam, alb*. Tarsi digito medio breviores. Longitu- 

 dine a rostro apice ad caudae apicem 9J. Patria lusulce Aleutica;." Cassin, 

 Birds N. A. 1858, p. 917. Copies Brandt's diagnosis. 



Brachyrhamphus marnwraius, Cassin, B. N. A. 1858, p. 915, in part. Descrip- 

 tion of supposed adult viarmoratus is that of Wrangeli. 



Aleutian Islands, and north-west coast of America; south to Puget's Sound, 

 and perhaps further. Numerous specimens in Mus. Smiths. Inst. (No. 11,457, 

 perfectly adult, Puget's Sound, in February; No. 46,547, just fully fledged, 

 Sitka ; and others from same locality in various stages of adolescence ; No. 

 46,542, Sitka, in January.) 



Description (from No. 46,541, Mus. Smiths., perfectly adult male, Sitka, 

 March, 1866). — With the size and proportions of the several members as in mar- 

 moratus; the bill absolutely shorter, relatively rather stouter. Bill scarcely as 

 long as the tarsus. Tarsus much less than middle toe without claw. 



Adult. — Entire upper parts, except the scapulars, very dark cinereous, the 

 centres of the feathers, particularly on the back and rump, blackish, causing 

 these parts to appear obsoletely waved with blackish and cinereous; the crown 

 of the head, the wings and the tail, almost black, the larger wing coverts just 

 appreciably white-margined; scapulars almost entirely pure white, forming two 

 conspicuous broad longitudinal bands. Under wing coverts dusky brown ; 

 inner webs of the primaries the same, not fading, even at their extreme bases, 

 into whitish. Entire under parts pure white, immaculate, except some dusky 

 streaks on the long feathers of the sides and flanks. This white on the sides 

 of the head invades the lores to the level of the top of the orbits, and extends 

 into the nasal fossffi ; then lowers a little, so that the eyes are left in the dark 

 color of the top of the head; then on the nape extends almost to the median 

 line, across which a few white leathers extend to the white on the other side, 

 forming an imperfect nuchal collar; then extends in a straight line down the 

 middle of the side of the neck. On the sides of the rump the white extends 

 around so far, that the cinereous is only left as a band an inch wide. This 

 white on the sides of the rump is as apparent upon the upper surface as that 

 on the scapulars ; it is directly continuous with that of the under i)arls, but on 

 the flanks the long overlying cinereous feathers appear to separate it. Bill 

 wholly black. Tarsi posteriorly and toes interiorly blackish ; rest of the feet, 



1868.] 




64 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



including both surfaces of the webs, probably flesh-colored in life ; dull yellow- 

 ish-white in the dried skin. 



Length " 10-00, extent 18-00" (collector's label); wing from carpus 5-00; 

 tail 1-50; tarsus -70; middle toe without claw -92, its claw -20; outer toe and 

 claw 1-10 ; inner do. -88 ; bill along culmen -60, along rictus 1-25, along gonys 

 •45, its height at base of nostrils -22, its width at same point -19. 



Young. (No. 46,5-i'7, Mus. Smiths., Sitka, July, 1866 ; just fully fledged ; the 

 bill has still the white horny knob at tip of upper and under mandible, show- 

 ing the juvenility of the specimen). — Bill very small, weak, short, imperfectly 

 developed, about a third as long as the skull; -45 along culmen; tarsus -55; 

 middle toe and claw 1-00 ; wing only 4-25. Entire upper parts blackish, much 

 darker than in the adult, with only a just appreciable shade of cinereous; the 

 scapular white present, but restricted in extent, and interrupted by imperfect 

 bars of dusky across the feathers. Entire under parts white. Everywhere, ex- 

 cept on chin, middle of abdomen, and under tail coverts, thickly marked with 

 delicate waved lines of dusky, most numerous across the throat, largest on the 

 sides and flanks, where some of the longer feathers are mostly dusky, finest on 

 the lower breast. The whitish on the sides of the head does not extend so far, 

 and merges insensibly into the dark color ; on the nape a delicate line of 

 white featliers almost forms a collar. The under wing coverts are as in the 

 adult. Bill blackish. Legs and feet anteriorly more dusky than in the adult. 

 Another specimen (No. 46,542, Mus. Smiths.), taken in January, marked 

 female, and evidentl}' hatched the preceding summer, has the size of the adult, 

 and the colors generally as in the young bird just described. But the upper 

 parts are much lighter and more decidedly cinereous, as in the adult ; the 

 scapular white well developed ; the dusky waving of the under parts confined 

 to the sides and throat. The under wing coverts are dusky along the edge of 

 the wing; but are elsewhere variegated with dull whitish; only to a small 

 degree, however, not approaching the condition seen in hypoleucus. 



In mature plumage this is a very handsome bird, and recognizable at a 

 glance by the pure white of the under parts, and blackish cinereous of the up- 

 per, relieved by the conspicuous white of the scapulars and sides of the rump. 

 It belongs to the short-legged division of the genus, being very diff'erent from 

 hypoleucus and Craveri in the proportions of the tarsus and toes. It has the 

 size and form of marrnoralus in every respect except a just fairly recognizable 

 difference in the shape of the bill. But it is quite a different species from 

 marnioratus ; so different, in fact, that no special comparison need be insti- 

 tuted. 



The recognition, in the bird here described, of Brachyrhainphus Wraiiffeli, 

 Brandt, is a matter of unusual interest, identifying, as it does, a species long 

 ago described, but almost unknown to ornithologists at large, and throwing 

 light upon what has always been a very obscure point in American ornitho- 

 logy. The writer is mainly indebted to Prof. Baird's suggestions for the for- 

 tunate direction of his investigation in this case. The present species has 

 hitherto been regarded and described b^^ American writers as the adult of the 

 well-known marmoratus, whose curious colors, as described by all authors from 

 Pennant downwards, and as figured by Audubon under the name of Uria Town- 

 sendii, have always been considered as indicative of immaturity. But numer- 

 ous specimens, in adult breeding plumage, demonstrate the falsity of this view, 

 as is satisfactorily set forth in the preceding article. Beyond the possibility of 

 a doubt, the present species is not marmoratus ; and it is certainly Wrangeli of 

 Brandt. 



Brachyrhamphus hypoledcus, Xantus. 



Brachyrhamphus hypoleucus, Xantus, Proc. Acad. Phila. Not., 1859. From Cape 



St. Lucas. Baird, eodem loco. 



Coast of California. Specs, in Mus. Smiths., and Mus. Acad. Philada. So 

 far south, in summer, as Cape St. Lucas, Lower Cal. 



[Jan. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 65 



Description (from No. , Mus. Smiths., 9; San Diego, Jan. 21, 1862 ; a 



typical example). — Bill along culmen half as long as the skull, three-fourths 

 as long as the tarsus, as long as the middle toe and half its claw, very slender, 

 much compressed, higher than wide at the base ; culmen gently curved its 

 whole length ; rictus nearly straight; gonys perfectly straight; outline of the 

 very slender mandibular rami a little concave. Tarsus just as long as the 

 middle toe without its claw I Tip of inner lateral claw not reaching base of 

 middle one. Wings and tail of usual shape ; the latter contained about two 

 and a third times in the length of the former from the carpus. Under tail 

 coverts reaching (in this specimen) just beyond the end of the tail. Entire 

 upper parts uniform cinereous, not varied bj^ white. This color is slightly 

 darker, and more blackish-plumbeous on the head. It extends on the sides of 

 the head just to the eyes, the lids of which are of this color, a little further 

 down on the auriculars ; thence in a straight line along the middle of the 

 side of the neck to the shoulders ; thence in a straight line along the sides 

 under the wings, where it is nearly an inch broad ; the elongated feathers of 

 the flanks are also mostly of this color. Other under parts entirely pure white. 

 Under surface of wings entirely pure white ! Primaries black on the outer 

 web ; the greater part of the shaft and inner webs white; the terminal portion 

 of the shaft and inner webs brown. Tail feathers black, the inner webs some- 

 what brownish. Bill black, the base of the lower mandible whitish ; feet an- 

 teriorly dull yellowish, posteriorly dusky, in the present dried state ; " bill 

 black, feet whitish-blue, black below " (label). 



"Length 10-50; extent 17-50" (label); wing 4-80; tail 1-70; tarsus -95; 

 middle toe without claw -95, its claw -20; outer toe and claw 1-10 ; inner do. 

 •90; bill along culmen -80, along rictus 1-30, along gonys -45; depth at base 

 ■22; width -19.* 



The specimen above described, collected at San Diego, Cal., by Dr. J. G. 

 Cooper, is a little larger than the type, as will be seen by comparing the 

 measurements with those in the accompanying foot-note. It is also described 

 as representing the perfect plumage, — the type being imperfect in this respect. 

 The upper parts are of a uniform veiy dark cinereous, without a shade of 

 brown ; the latter hue only occurring in specimens with worn and faded 

 plumage. In the original description, here appended, the indications of tlie 

 size of relative lengths of. the tarsus and middle toe are made without 

 reference to the claw ; which fact explains an apparent discrepancy between 

 the present description and the original one. The tarsus is exactly as long as 

 the middle toe without its claw. 



This is a very strongly marked species. The most striking diagnostic feature 

 is the pure white of the under surface of the wings. In the uniformity of the 

 cinereous color of the upper parts it is also unique. Nearly the same length 

 of tarsus is found in B. brachyptcrun, Brandt, and Craven, Salvadori ; the 

 tarsus is much shorter than the middle toe in Wranffeli Brandt, marmuratus 

 Gm., ^' Kittlitzii" Brandt, and " brcvtrostris'^ Vigors. 



This species is certainly not the Uria hrevirostris Vigors, from San Bias. 

 This is described as having " alns suprii et infrci, tectricesque inferiores fuscffi, 



* * tarsi I," which settles all questions on this score. It has the same 

 dimensions, and the same relative length of tarsus and toes as Craveri Salva- 



* The following is tlie original description of the type specimen : " Bill slender and 

 slightly curved, about half the length of head. Tarsus scarcely shorter than the middle 

 toe [and claw]. Above dark brownish-blacii, the edges of the feathers with a decideil 

 plumbeous tinge; the side of neck below, and the axillars with the concealed portion of 

 the sides of the breast, ashy plumbeous. Entire under parts, including tail coverts and 

 inside of the wings, pure white, this color extending on the sides of the head so as to in- 

 clude the eyes; the lids, however, are tinged with dusky; bill black; legs apparently red- 

 dish in life. 



" Length 10 inches, extent 15-80, wing 4-70, tail 1-80, bill above -70, gape 1-20, tarsus -85, 

 middle toe [with claw] 1-00. This specimen is considerably weather-beaten, and the old 

 feathers of the upper parts are much worn, and bleached at the edges. The new ones are, 

 liowever, as described." 



1868.] 5 




66 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



dori, also from the coast of Lower California ; but the latter appears to be a 

 different species, as will be discussed further on. It comes nearest to hrachyp' 

 terus, from Unalaschka ; iu fact there is nothing in Brandt's brief diagnosis 

 preventing the reference of the present species to brachypterns, except 

 the expression "tarsi digito medio longiores." But in view of this 

 discrepancy, and of the widely-separated localities whence the two species 

 are described, it would be unsafe to take their identity for granted. It is much 

 the best course to retain the present species as it stands, under the name 

 hopoleucus, which has the merit of being positively identified, as is not the 

 case, as yet, with brachypterus. 



Several excellent examples of this species from various points along the 

 coast of California are in the collections of the Smithsonian Institution and 

 Philadelphia Academy. They present no individual differences worthy of 

 special mention ; except in the instance of the type specimen, which is 

 brownish above, from the faded and worn condition of the plumage. 



This species has probably the southernmost range of any of the family; 

 occurring in summer at Cape St. Lucas. It was observed by the writer in 

 December, 1865, off the coast of Mexico, about latitude 21° N. 1 Its extension 

 northward remains to be ascertained. At present, it is not known to occur 

 north of the coast of Lower California. Its southern habitat, as remarked by 

 Prof. Baird, is a fact of great interest, when it is recollected how truly boreal 

 are nearly all the species of the family. 



Brachyrhamphus Craveri, [Salvad.) Cones. 

 TJria Craveri, Salvador!, Descrizione di altre Nuove specie di ITccelli esistenti 



nel museo di Torino, 1867, p. 17. Estratto dagli Atti della Societil Italiaua 



di Scienze Naturali, vol. viii, 1866. 



" Jiin. — Uria minima, crassitie Merguli alle ; supra fusco-nigra, dorso ac alls 

 nonnihil griseo-tinctis. Subtus alba ; rostro valde elongato, subuhito, nigro ; 

 tarsis postice nigris, antice viride-luteis ; unguibus nigris. 



" Long. tot. 0,245 ; al. 0,125 ; caud. 0,018 ; rostri a rictu 0,037 ; tarsi 0,022 ; 

 dig. med. cum ungue 0,024 ; (millimetres.) 



" Parti superiori, lati della testa, le piume del mento lungo il margine 

 inferiore della mandibula, lati del collo, del petto, e fianchi di color bruno- 

 nero con una leggera tinta grigio-lavagna sul dorso, sul groppone e sulle ali ; 

 parti inferiori candide ; becco nero ; tarsi neri posteriormente, anteriormente 

 giallo verdastri como auche le dita ; unghie nere. 



" Questa specie sarebbe commune lungo le coste del Golfo della California, 

 e neir Isola della Natividad posta nel Pacifico, a poca distanza dalla costa 

 occideutale della Bassa California." — Salvador!, 1. c. 



This recently described species has much the same habitat as B. hijpoleucus, 

 and very much resembles the latter. The dimensions are the same in both, 

 and the colors are verj^ nearly alike. The expression "fusco-nigra, * '* 

 griseo-tinctis," exactly hits some specimens of hi/poleucas, — those somewhat 

 faded and worn in plumage, — though not applicable to more perfect specimens. 

 In the above copied description, no mention is made of the under surfaces of 

 the wings ; but the needed information in this regard has been supplied 

 through a private channel. Prof. Baird has received from Sig. Salvadori, and 

 kindly transmitted to the writer, a life-size figure of the bird, accompanied by 

 a note in which it is stated that " the lining of the wings is blackish, and some 

 feathers are white-edged." This fact at once distinguishes the species from 

 hi/poleucus, providing the latter, in all stages of plumage, has the under sur- 

 faces of the wings white, as is most probable, judging by what is known of 

 the variations in plumage of the birds of this genus. 



Waiving the bare possibility of this bird s being a young hgpoleucus, it cannot 

 be referred to any described species, and must be regarded as a valid one. 

 That it is not brevirostris, Vigors, is sufficiently evident from the dimensions ; 

 the tarsus of the latter being only half an inch long. 



[Jan. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 67 



Brachyrhamphus brachyptkrus, Brandt. 



Brachyrhamphus hrachypterus, Brandt, Bull. Acad. Imper. St. Petersb. ii. 1837, 



p. 34G. Quotes "?7rw brachi/ptera Kittlitzii, MSS." Gray, Genera, iii, 1849, 



p. 644. Cassin, Birds N. A. 18"i8, p. 917. Merely copies Brandt's description. 



Anobapton [Brachyrhaniphus) hrachi/plcrus, Bonaparte, Tab. Comp. Pelagiens, 



Comptes Kendus, xlii, 185G, p. 774. 



"Supra cinerea, alls caudaque nigricantibus. Collum subtus et in latcribus, 

 pectus et abdomen alba. Rostrum capitis dimidii circiter longitudiue. Tarsi 

 digito medio longiores. Longitudine a rostri apice ad caudaj apicem 9. Patria 

 Unalaschka." — Brandt, I. c. 



This species is whollj' unknown, at least on this side of the Atlantic, except 

 by the aboye cited description of Brandt. It has nothing to distinguish it 

 from some other Brachyrhamphi exceyit the length of the tarsus. This, however, 

 if it really obtains, is sufficient to distinguish the bird from all others, not 

 only of the genus, but of the family ; for no known alcidine bird has the tarsi 

 longer than the middle toe. 



URIA, {Moehr.) Brisson. 



Columba sive Columbus, Anct. antiq. ex parte. Vria, Moehring, Av. Gen. 1752, 



p. G7, No. 73. Type Columba groenlandica, Willoughby. 

 f'T/ff, Brisson ; Briinnich, Orn. Bor. 1764; and of authors generally. 

 Alca, Linnjeus, Syst. Nat. i, 1758; in part. 



Colymbus, Linna?us, S. N. i, 1766, in part, and of many of the older authors. 

 Cepphus, Pallas, Spic. Zool. y. 1769, in part. 

 Gryllc, Brandt, Bull. Acad. St. Petersb. ii, 1837, p. 346. Type U. grylle, Briinn. 



Bill much shorter than the head, about equal to the tarsus, straight, rather 

 stout, moderately compressed ; culmen at first straight, then rapidly deflected ; 

 rictus straight, except just at tip ; gonys ascending, straight, short, about half 

 as long as the culmen. No groove in sides of upper mandible near its tip ; com- 

 missural edge of upper mandible scarcely inflected. Nasal fossa wide, long, 

 deeply excavated, partially bare of feathers, which do not wholly obtect the 

 nostrils. Feathers extending on sides of lower mandible with a salient rounded 

 outline. Wings and tail very short, the latter contained about two or two- 

 thirds times in the length of the former from the carpal joint to the end of 

 longest primary; tail slightly rounded. Tarsus much compressed, entirely 

 covered with polygonal reticulations, somewhat scutelliform on the inner 

 aspect ; slightly shorter than the middle toe without its claw. Outer and 

 middle toes equal in length ; the claw of the former much smaller than that 

 of the latter, tip of inner claw just reaching base of middle one. Claws com- 

 pressed, moderately arched and acute ; the outer one grooved along its outer 

 aspect, the middle one greatly dilated along its inner edge. No postocular 

 furrow in the plumage. 



In the preceding diagnosis the characters of the genus are so drawn as to 

 exclude the large species of Lomvia. Few writers have made this generic 

 distinction, for which, notwithstanding, there is abundant reason, as may be 

 seen upon a critical comparison of the two types of form ; and as will be 

 satisfactorily demonstrated at length under head of Lomvia. It need only be 

 noted here, that the structure of the bill and feet are in many respects very 

 different in the two genera. 



The genus as here framed comprehends three distinct species, intimately 

 allied to each other. 



Species : — (3.) 



Disregarding other and less prominent though very valid distinctions, the 

 three species of Uria may be at once recognized by the following character- 

 istics : — 



1868.] 




68 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



A liirge ^vbite space on wing, entire. No white about 



bead 1. grylle. 



A hirge wbite space on wing partially divided by a black 



line. No white about bead 2. columba. 



No white on wing. Feathers around and behind eye and 



at base of bill, white 3. carbo. 



Or they may be still more briefly and quite as satisfactorily characterized 

 thus: — carbo — upper and under surfaces of wings black; grylle — upper and 

 under surfaces of wings wbite ; columba — upper surfaces of wings white, under 

 black. 



The division of the white mirror on the upper surface of the wings of 

 columba is not the most important point of coloration, though the most 

 obvious, upon casual inspection, by which the species differs from grylle. A 

 still stronger diagnostic character lies in the absence of white on the under 

 surface of the wings. 



Uria grylle, [Linn.) Brunn. 



Cohimba groenlandica, " Linnreus, Syst. Nat. vi, ed. 1746, p. 23, No. 4. Alba- 



nus, Av. ii,p. 73, pi. 88. Ray, Syu. Av. p. 121, No. 6. Willoughby, Orn. p. 



245, pi. 78. Martens, Spitzburg. p. 56, pi. 50, fig. B." 

 Columbus groenlandicus, "Klein Av. p. 168, No. 2." 

 Uria groenlandica, Briinnich, Orn. Bor. 1764, p. 28, No. 116, (blank.) 

 Uria nigra, striata, et minor, Brisson. 

 Alca grylle, Linuc'cus, Syst. Nat. i, 1758, p. 130. Schlegel, Urinatores Mus. 



Pays-Bas. livr. ix, 1867, p. 130, excl. synon. Cephus columba, Pall. 

 Colymbus grylle, hinnxns, Hjst. Nat. i, 1766, p. 220. Hermann, Tabl. Affin. 



Anim. p. 148. Blumenbach, Handb. Naturg. p. 220 Miiller, Zool. Dan. 



Prodr. p. 18. Gmelin, Syst. Nat. i, 1788, p. 584. Donndorff, Beytr. Zool. 



ii, pt. i, 1794, p. 871. Several states of plumages enumerated as varieties. 

 Uria grylle, Briinaich, Orn. Bor. 1764, p. 28, No. 113. Latham, Ind. Orn. ii, 



1790, p. 797, No. 2. Var. " B," is columba ; perhaps also var. " E," the same. 



Temminck, Man. Orn. ii, 1820, p. 925. Vieillot, Gal. Ois. ii, 1825, p. 235, 



pi. 294. Bonaparte, Syn. B. N. A. 1828, p. 423. Audubon, Orn. Biog. iii, 



1835, p. 148, pi. 219 and B. Amer. vii, 1844, p. 474. Peabody, Rep. Nat. 



Hist. Mus. 1840, Birds, p. 399, Gray, Genera Birds iii, 1849, p. 644. 



Thompson, Nat. Hist. Ireland, iii, 1851, p. 214. Macgillivray, Hist. Brit. 



Birds, 1852, ii, p. 331. Cassin, Birds N. A. 1858, p. 911, pi. 96, fig. 2 ; and 



Pr. A. N. S. Philada. 1862, p. 323. Herald Island. Bryant, Proc. Bost. 



Soc. Nat. Hist. May, 1861, p. 74. Cones, Pr. A. N. S. Philada. 1861, p. 225. 



Verrill, Proc. Bost. Soc. Nat. Hist. 1862, p. 131, and p. 142, and Proc. Essex 



Inst, iii, 1863, p. 160. Samuels, Ornith. and Ool. New Engl. 1867, p. 567. 

 Uria [Grylle) grylle, Brandt, Bull. Acad. St. Petersb. ii, 1837, p. 346. 

 Uria [Cephus) grylle, Bonaparte, Comptes Rendus, 1856, xlii, p. 774. 

 Cephus grylle, Fleming, Hist. Brit. Anim. 1842, p. 134. 

 Cepphus lacleolus, Pallas, S. Z. v, 1769, p. 33. Albino, perhaps columba. 

 Colymbus lacleolus, Gmelin, Syst. Nat. i, 1788, p. 583. Albino. "0. niveus, 



rostro pedibusque ex carneo fuscescentibus." Donndortf, Beytr. Zool. ii, pt. 



i, 1790, p. 870. 

 Uria lacteola, Latham, Ind. Orn. ii, 1790, p. 798. Albino. 

 Uria grylloides, Briinnich, Orn. Bor. 1764, p. 28, No. 114. Clianging plumage. 

 Uria ballhica, Briinnich, Orn. Bor. 1764, p. 28, No. 115. Immature or winter. 

 f^/7rt ni'tjea, Bonnaterre, Ency. Method. Orn. 1790, p. 37. Albino, possibly of 



columba. Quotes Pall. Spec. Zool. v, p. 33. 

 Uria leucoptera,* Vieillot, Nouv. Diet. d'Hist. Nat. xiv. 1817, p. 35. 



* "Get oiseau, dont je ne eonnais pas le pays natale, est totalement d'un noir profonde, 

 avec une grande plaque Ijlanclie surTaile; sa taille est i peu pres la meme que celle du 

 precedent," {U. troik) — VicilL, I.e. 



[Jan. 




KATUEAL SCIEXCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



69 



IJria unicolor, Faber, Prodr. Isl. Oni. 1822, p. teste Schlegel. Greenla,ad. 



without white on wings. 

 Uria [Lomvia) unicolor, Bonaparte, Comptes Rendus, 1856, xlii, p. 774. 

 Uria JlLrndtii, Lichenstein, Verz. 1823, p. 88, teste Schlegel. Spitzenbergen. 



Not of authors, whicli usually refers to columba. 

 Uria scapuhiris, Stephens, Shaw's Gen. Zool. xii, 1824, p. 250, pi. 64. 

 Cephus fflacialis, arcticus, Faroefisis, et Meisneri, Brehm. 



European and American coasts and islands of the North Atlantic ; very 

 abundant. Arctic Ocean. Spitzbergen, Iceland, Greenland. On the Ameri- 

 can coast, in winter, south to New Jersey coast. Rare or accidental in the 

 north Pacific, where replaced by columba and carho. — ? Kamtschatka (Mus. 

 Pays-Bas, fide Schlegel.)* Herald Island, Arctic Ocean, (Cassin Pr. A. N S. 

 Ph. 1862, p. 323); Spec, in Mus. Acad. Phila., Smiths. Inst., Bost. Soc*. 

 Nat. Hist. ; Essex Inst. ; Cab. G. N. Lawrence ; author's Cab. 



Adult, simmer plumage. 

 — Bill and claws black 

 Mouth, legs and feet bril- 

 liant vermilion red, tinged 

 with carmine. Entire 

 plumage plumbeous or 

 fuliginous black, with a 

 tint of invisible green. 

 Wings and tail pure black, 

 the former with a large 

 oval space on the upper 

 coverts, all the under cov- 

 erts and the subscapu- 

 Fig. IZ.— Vria gryUe.—^nt size. lars pure white. 



This perfect breeding plumage is temporary, and lasts but a short time. 

 Very many individuals do not assume it until June ; and it is usually retained 

 only during this and the succeeding month. Most specimens collected in May 

 are found to still have some traces of the winter plumage, below described. 



Adult, during autumnal change. The first indication of the moult is seen 

 in the wings and tail, and is to be observed in nearly all specimens taken after 

 July. By the latter part of this month, after incubation and nursing are 

 finished, the wing and tail feathers become much worn, and faded, turning to 

 a light brownish gray towards their tips. The white mirror shows scattered 

 traces of dull brown. The body color loses its hue of green, and becomes 

 more fuliginous brown. Isolated white feathers are scattered over the whole 

 body ; or the dark feathers acquire white tips. With the falling of the quill 

 feathers, which may take place very rapidly, and deny for a season all power 

 of ^ight, the bird is in the following condition, which is the i)ure moulting 

 state, exactly intermediate between the summer and winter plumages : — No. 

 18254, Mus. Smiths., Labrador, Aug. 14, 1860. E. Coues. Wing feathers re- 

 newed, pure black, but not fully grown ; wing from the carpus only 4-50 long. 

 Mirror of renewed feathers, almost or quite pure white, but small ; under 

 wing coverts and axillars pure white. Head and neck all around, rump, and 

 whole under parts marbled with black and white in equal quantitj% the bird 

 looking as if dusted over with flour. Back black, most of the feathers lightlj' 

 bordered with white, the scapulars more largely white. A still further in- 

 crease of white produces the following : — 



Adult, lointer plumage. — Wings and tail black, the mirror and under wing 

 coverts faultlessly white. Head and neck all around, rump and entire under 



* Although this author does not recognize the specific validity of U. columba, and would 

 therefore range specimens of the latter under grylle in his catalogue, a specimen (No. 5.) 

 there enumerated appears to be this species, as is inferrible from the expression '■ Au 

 miroir d'an blanc pur." 



1868.] 




70 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



parts pure white; the back, (and frequently the crown, and back of neck,) 

 bhxck, more or less variegated with white. Audubon figures this condition 

 very nearly. 



The change in spring — mostly occurring during April and May — is the reverse 

 of that already described as the autumnal moult. 



Fledgelings. — (Labrador, July, 1860, E. Coues, Mus. Smiths. No. — .) Length 

 about 6-00 ; bill -50 ; tarsus -60 ; middle toe and claw -90, etc. Wholly covered 

 with soft wool}' puffy down, fuliginous brownish black ; bill and feet brownish 

 black. 



Young, first plumage. — Traces of the down on various parts of the body ; the 

 bird probably just beginning to fly ; length about 10-00, wing 11-50 ; bill 1-00, 

 black; tarsus 1-25; reddish dusky, as also are the toes. U|)per parts plumbeous or 

 sooty black, scarcely varied with white. Mirror beginning to appear, as white 

 spotting on a blackish ground. Entire under parts white, thickly marbled, 

 rayed and undulated with light touches of dusky. 



This state tends to pass directly into a condition exceedingly similar to, if 

 not identical with, that of the adults in winter. But birds of the first winter 

 may, at least early in the season, be distinguished from old ones by a certain 

 •' feel " of the plumage, and a shorter, weaker bill, less developed as to its 

 ridges and angles. 



Accidental variations. — The foregoing descriptions apply to the various stages 

 of plumage, which are strictly normal in character, and which, though un- 

 ending in precise degree, and varying with almost every individual, merge in- 

 sensibly into each other. The species is, however, also very subject to acci- 

 dental and entirely abnormal variations. Of these, albinism is the most com^ 

 mon. (Spec, in Mus. Acad. Philada.) Entirely milk white, without a trace 

 of black ; bill and feet light colored ; ej'es probably pink in life. The oppo- 

 site condition of melanism is described by authors. This consists in the total 

 absence of white on the wings ; and is apparently of infrequent occurrence. 

 Both these conditions have been described and named as characterizing dis- 

 tinct species. In the latter, the bird must not be confounded with Uria carlo, 

 which is totally different. 



Dimensions. — Adult : Length, (average) 13.00 ; extent, (average) 22-50 ; 

 wing 5-50 to 6-25; tail 2-00, a little more or less ; bill along culmen 1-30; 

 along rictus 1-75 ; along gonys -65 ; depth at base -45, width -35 ; tarsus 1-25 ; 

 middle toe and claw r'75, outer do. slightly less, inner do 1-40. 



It may be of advantage to look closel}' into the formation of the white area 

 upon the wing of this species, to the end that its composition may be clearly 

 understood, and recognized as different from that which obtains in the allied 

 species, U. columha. The mirror upon the upper coverts varies to a degree, 

 and in a precisely similar way, in each species ; but when perfect constantly 

 presents a radical difference. 



When Uria grylle is observed flying, as is its wont, low over the water with 

 rapid beats of the wings, the eye receives the impression of a black bird, with 

 a large white circular spot on the wing. This spot is constantly in view, 

 and represents the retinal image resulting from the white spaces upon both the 

 upper and under surface of the wings blended together by the rapid motion of 

 the wings. Those who have observed Uria grylle in its native haunts will 

 appreciate the pertinence of this remark. Uria coluniba presents no such 

 peculiarity of appearance, there being no white upon the under surface of the 

 wings ; and the eye readily follows the movement of the small white space 

 upon the wings, as with the changing attitudes of the bird, it is now apparent, 

 now lost to view. 



In Uria grylle, the row of great coverts upon the secondary quills are basally 

 black, terminally white. The outermost are white for rather less than half 

 their length, and the white occupies chiefly the exterior webs. Nearer the 

 body they are white for more than half their length, and the white occupies 

 both webs of the feathers. 



[Jan. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 71 



The next row of coverts are ■wholly white in their entire length, except per- 

 haps for a very brief space just at their base; and they are throughout long 

 enough to cover entirely the dark portion of the first row, reaching a little 

 beyond and overlying the commencement of the white upon the latter ; so 

 that the white is continuous and unbroken. One or two more rows of coverts 

 have precisely the same character and continue the white space uninter- 

 rupted. 



The shorter coverts, for about half inch from the edge of the antibrachium 

 are black. The last of these, however, are broadly tipped with white, which 

 white portion overlies the extreme bases of the next row, blending its color 

 with that of the latter; the anterior edge of the mirror being thus the line of 

 union of the black and white portions of these coverts, taken collectiveh'. 



In Uria coliimba, the row of great coverts is externally wholly black, or at 

 most the outermost feathers have only a ver}' narrow white tip. The amount 

 of white on the feathers increases rapidlj' from without inwards, until on the 

 innermost there is nearly or quite as much white as 'n\ grylle. In consequence 

 of the small amount of white on these coverts, the next row of coverts do not 

 overlie, nor even reach it ; there being left a broad space of dusky between 

 the white tips of the second row of coverts, and those of the first; which 

 space rapidly diminishes from the edge of the wing towards the body, forming 

 the curved crescent of dusky which is obvious upon the wing of this species. 



The mirror of Uria grylle is subject to much variation, which, however, 

 never obscures its distinctive characters in any decided degree. The greater 

 coverts may be wholly dusky ; then the mirror is the same as before, except 

 in its smaller size; the next row may be tipped with dusky, so that no white 

 comes forwaVd to coalesce with that of the greater row, and an appearance 

 like that of columba is produced ; which need not deceive, since the dusky 

 results from the second row of coverts instead of the first. All the wing 

 coverts may be tipped with dusky ; producing a variegated or spotted mirror. 

 Finally, the mirror may be only indicated by a few isolated white feathers, or 

 may be altogether wanting. 



It is to be borne in mind, that the difference in the mirror of U. grylle 

 and columba is only one of the most obvious, but not the most specific distinc- 

 tion. In the very possibly occurring cases in which there is absolutely no dif- 

 ference between si)ecimens in this respect, the absence of the white under the 

 wing, and the shape of the bill, readily distinguish columba from grylle. 



Perhaps no bird has so many synonyms as Uria grylle. Independently of its 

 reference to divers genera, a large number of nominal species have been insti- 

 tuted upon its various stages of plumage, some of them requiring brief notice. 

 A very common name for the species among pre-Linnsean writers was " Co- 

 lumba groenlandica," — obviously a mere rendering into Latin of a popular 

 designation. The word "grylle" made an early entr\' into the records, desig- 

 nating the adult plumage. Grylloides of Briinnich represents a variegated con- 

 dition ; and balthica of the same author an immature or winter state. Lac- 

 teolus of the older authors seems to have been based upon the albino condition ; 

 the bird being described as " niveus, rostro pedibu.'^que ex carneo fuscescen- 

 tibus." It is possible that Pallas, who introduced the word, may have really 

 based it upon a specimen of columla ; but this is a point of no special conse- 

 quence. Bonnaterre has another name, — '■'■nivea'" — for the same condition, 

 quoting Pallas, Sp. Z. v, p. 33. Brisson and Brehm both have a large numl)er 

 of nominal species, not necessary here to particularize. In 1817, Vieillot 

 (1. supra cit.) describes an adult under the name of Uria leucoptera^ errone- 

 ouslj' assigning it dimensions nearlj^ equal to those of Lomvia troih. At least 

 the presumption is that this Inicoptera is nothing but a large grylle, though he 

 must have been perfectly familiar with the latter. Even so late as 1824, grylle 

 is redescribed as Uria .<!capulari.s. 



The " Uria Mandlii" of Lichtenstein requires attention, having been exten- 

 sively ciuoted as a synonym of, or employed to designate, U. columba, as will 



1868. 




72 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



, 1794, p. 872. Quotes 

 In speciminibus orien- 



be seen by the list of synonyms under head of this species. It is not possible 

 to determine from the description whether Mandtii is really based upon cohimha 

 or upon grylle. But Dr. Schlegel describes a specimen from Spitzl)ergen in 

 the Mus. Pays-Bas. — " un des individus types de I'Uria Mandtii de Lichtenstein, 

 obtenu du Mus6e de Berlin," as having the white feathers of the mirror tipped 

 with clear brown, and the wing and the tail feathers taded grayish. This is 

 a common condition of autumnal specimens of grylle ; and the description 

 does not point more particularly to columba than to this species. Upon the 

 whole, it may be best to regard Mandtii Licht. as a synonym of grylle ; though 

 the name as used by Brandt, Bonaparte and some others refers unmistakeably 

 to columba. 



A certain Uria unicolor is described by Faber and Benecken and admitted as 

 distinct in the Comptes Rendus for 1856, by Bonaparte, who moreover places 

 it in a different subgenus from grylle. Bonaparte does not use the term to 

 designate cario Pall., which latter he gives as distinct. The name seems to have 

 been based upon the melanotic state of plumage of grylle. Dr. Schlegel 

 describes, in the ninth livraison of the Mus. Pays-Bas Catalogues, one of 

 Faber's type specimens from Greenland, as being " Au plumage d'un noir en- 

 fume absolument uniforme." 



Uria columba, [Pallas) Cassin, 



Black Gttillemof, variety from Kamtschatka, " with a white oblique line issuing 



from the white spot on the wings," Pennant, Arct. Zool. ii, 1785, p. 517. 

 Uria grylle, \ar. B, Latham, Ind. Orn. ii, 1790, p. 797. " Fuliginosa, fascia 

 alarum gemina alba. Lath. Syn. vi, p, 333, No. 3, var. a. Habitat in Aoona- 

 lashka." 

 Colyviltus grylle, var. B, Donndorff, Beytr. Zool. ii, pt. 



Latham and Pennant. 

 Cepphus columba, Pallas, Zoog. R.-A. 1811, ii, p. 348. 



tali oceani, fascia alarum duplex," etc. (p. 349.) 



Uria columba, Cassin, Voy. Vincennes and Peacock, Orn. Atlas, pi. 38, fig. 1. 



Idem, Baird's B. N. A. "1858, p. 912, pi. 96, fig. 1. Idem, Pr. A. N. S. Phila. 



1862, p. 323. Heermann, Pac. R. R. Rep. x, 1859, Route to California, 



Birds, p. 76. Cooper and Suckley, Pac. R. R. Rep. xii, pt. ii, 1860, p. 285. 



??Uria mandtii, Lichtenstein, Verzeich, 1823, p. 88. 



Uria mandtii, Reichenbach, '/ollst. Naturg. Schwimmvog, pi. 4, fig. 47. Gray, 



Genera Birds, iii, 1849, p. 644. 

 Uria {Grylle) mandtii, Brandt, Bull. Acad. St. Petersb. ii, 1837, p. 346. 

 Uria [Cephus) mandtii, Bonaparte, Tabl. Comp. Pelag. Comptes Rendus, 1856, 

 xlii, p. 774. 



Asiatic and American coasts of the North Pacific, Kamtschatka (Mus. Acad. 

 Philada.), Russian America, Washington Territory, California (Mus. Smiths. 

 Inst.) Breeds on the islands off the coast of California. 



Bill stouter than that 

 oi grylle, more o))tuse at 

 the tip ; upper mandible 

 with theculmen straight, 

 or even just appreciably 

 convex, suddenly de- 

 flected ; rictus straight, 

 ascending to near the 

 tip ; gonys and outline 

 of inferior mandibular 

 rami straight. 



Adult. — Entirely fuli- 

 ginous or plumbeous 

 black, with a sliade of 

 invisible green. White 



[Jan. 



Fig. H.— Uria columha.—^tKi. size. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 73 



mirror on wing coverts. Nearly divided in two by a broad rather curved ob- 

 lique line of blackish. No white on under wing coverts, these being grayish- 

 brown. Bill and claws black. Mouth and feet yermillion red, tinged with 

 carmine. "Iris white " (label). 



Length 13-00; extent 23-00 ; wing V-OO ; tail 2-20; tarsus 1-25; middle toe 

 and claw 1-90, outer do. the same, inner do. 1-45; bill along culmen 1-20, 

 along rictus 1-80, along gonys -65 ; depth at base -40 ; width -30. 



This species closely resembles U.grylle; but differs in being upon an average 

 larger, the wing particularly longer ; the bill stouter, straighter, more obtuse 

 at the point ; and the marking of the wings different, as above described. The 

 changes of plumage and the individual variations, as exhibited in the large 

 series of specimens examined, and entirely parallel with those of UriagrjiUe. 



It is worthy of note that this species occurs, in summer, upon the Pacific 

 coast of America, much south of the corresponding latitudes on the Atlantic 

 coasts frequented at this season by U. grylle. 



One of the earliest indications, if not the first, of this species, may be recog- 

 nized in the variety of the Black Guillemot from Kamtschatka, described by 

 Pennant. This is said to have a white oblique line issuing from the white 

 spot on the wing. The var. B of grylle of Latham and Donndorflf is the same 

 bird. Pallas appears to be the first to bestow a specific name. The question 

 involved in the Uria Mandtii, Licht., has already been considered in the pre- 

 ceding article. 



Uria carbo, (Pall.) Brandt. 



Cepphtcs carbo, VMas, Zoog. R.-A. ii, 1811, p. 350, pi. 79. " C. tridactylus, 



totus niger, orbites albis," etc. 

 Uria {Grylle) carho, Brandt, Bull. Acad. St. Petersb. ii, 1837, p. 346. " Tota 



nigra, pedibus rubris, orbita et stria ab orbites pone oculos ducta albis." 

 Uria [Cephus) carho, Bonaparte, Comptes Rendus, 1856, xlii, p. 774. 

 Uria carbo, Gray, Genera Birds, 1849, p. 644. Cassin, Baird's B. N. A. 1858, 



p. 913. pi. 97. Quotes Reich. Vollst. Naturg. Aves., pi. 375, fig. 2937. Cassin, 



Pr. A. N. S. Philada. 1862, p. 323 (Japan). 

 Alca carbo, Schlegel, Urinatores Mus. Pays-Bas, livr. ix, 1867, p. 17. 



" In oceano orientale circa insulas Aleuticas, praesertim Unalaschka " 



(Pallas), Kamtschatka (Mus. Acad. Philada.), Japan (Mus. Smiths. Inst.) 

 Sp. Cli. — Larger than grylle and columba ; the bill especially larger, stouter 



and straighter. Feathers of nasal foss^ and those around base of lower man- 

 dible whitish. A 

 conspicuous white 

 area around eyes, 

 and extending an 

 inch or so behind 

 them. No white 

 on either surface 

 of wings. Rest of 

 plumage brown- 

 ish-black, becom- 

 ing ashy black on 

 the under parts ; 

 perhaps deep 



Fig. 15. — ?/>-tacar6o.— Nat. size. plumbeous black, 



with a shade of greenish, in more mature specimens than those examined. 



Bill black. Legs and feet chrome yellow, tinged with vermillion, webs cpral 



red in the dried state ; probably vermillion or carmine red in life. 



Length 14 to 15 inches; wing 7-75; tail 2-50; culmen 1-55; commissure 



2-20 ; from feathers on side of lower mandible to tip 1-50, tarsus 1-36 ; middle 



toe and claw 2-10, outer 2-00, inner 1-60. 



1868.] 




74 PROCEEDIXGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



Another specimen: culmen l-^O ; commissure 2-10; feathers on side of 

 lower miindible to its tip 1-55; depth of bill at base -50; width at same 

 point -38. 



An interesting species of Uria, easily recognized by its peculiar colors, 

 "which are different from those of either of the other two species here described. 

 Although unmistakeably characterized by Pallas, in 1811, as above cited, it 

 seems to have been overlooked by many subsequent writers. It appears, how- 

 ever, in the monograph by Prof. Brandt, who was well acquainted with Pallas' 

 labors and discoveries ; and is on different occasions noticed by Mr. Cassin, 

 who has given a figure of it in the Atlas accompanying Prof. Baird's Birds of 

 North America. There is a fine specimen in the Philadelpliia Academy, from 

 Kamtschatka; and a mutilated one in the Smithsonian Institution, from Japan. 

 The latter is interesting on account of the new and unusual locality. Tlie bird 

 is chiefly an inhabitant of the higher latitudes on the coasts of the Pacific 

 Ocean. It has not yet become a common bird in collections. 



The species is somewhat larger than gryUeov columba, but chiefly noticeable, 

 as far as form is concerned, by the greater stoutness and straightness of the 

 bill, very observable upon direct comparison. The culmen and commissure 

 are nearly straight almost to the very tip, where they are rather suddenlj' de- 

 curved. The gonys and mandibular rami are quite straight ; the eminence at 

 their symphysis is well-marked. The nasal fossa is short, but wide and deep ; 

 the feathers reach to the nostrils, but do not cover them. These nasal feathers, 

 as well as those around the base of the lower mandible, are dull white. The 

 eyes are conspicuously encircled with white, which stretches behind them for 

 about an inch, tapering to a fine point. There are no indications of white on 

 the wings. With the exceptions just mentioned the whole jjlumage is sooty- 

 black, tinged with slaty above, with brownisli below, and becoming light ashy 

 on the under surfaces of the wings. The bill is black, as in tlie other species ; 

 the inside of the mouth probably carmine red in life. The feet are light yellow 

 in the dried specimens, doubtless vermillion or carmine red in life. The webs 

 are still tinged with this color. The claws are black. 



It is possible tliat the plumage just described is not that of the perfectly 

 adult bird, in which, when fully mature, the white about the sides of the head 

 and base of the bill may not be exactly as here described ; and the body colors 

 may be purer and more intense. Dr. Schlegel describes a specimen from the 

 Kurile islands as " d'un noir enfumd uniforme ;'' and another, from Sachalin 

 island, as an " individu an plumage imparfait ; d'un brun fuligineux, passant 

 au blanchatre sur la face et les cOtes de la tete." 



LOMVIA, {Ray) Brandt. 



Lovwia, Ray, Syn. Meth. Av., p. 120. Type L. Hoieri Ray, (fide Bryant). 

 Lomvia, Brandt, Bull. Acad. St. Pet. ii, 1837, p. 345. Type Colymbutstroille Linn. 

 (7a/a?-ffc<eji, Moehring, Gen. Av. 1752, p. 68, No. 75. Based on Lomvia Ins. 



Fame Hoeiri. 

 Cataracies^ Bryant, Monog. Gen. Cataractes, Pr. Bost. Soc. Nat. Hist. 18G1. 



Type Colymbus troille Linn. 

 Alca, Linna?us, f^yst. Nat. i, 1758, in part ; and of many older authors. Also 



of Schlegel (18ti7_), in part. 

 Uria, Brisson, Orn. ii, 1760, p. 377, in part; and of authors generally. 

 Colymbus. Linnteus, Syst. Nat. i, 1766, in part; and of many older authors. 

 Cepphus, Pallas, Zoog. R.-A. ii, 1811, p. 345, in part. 



Bill shorter than the head, longer than the tarsus, straight, or slightly de- 

 curved, usually very slender, much compressed, culmen regularly decurved in 

 its whole length, rictus moderately and very gradually decurved, gonys straight, 

 or even slightly concave in outline, very long, nearly as long as the culmen ; 

 a groove in the side of the upper mandible near its tip ; commissural edge of 

 upper mandible greatly inflected. Nasal fossa3 scarcely apparent, fully feath- 



[Jau. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



75 



ered, the nostrils wholly obtected by feathers. Feathers on side of lower 

 mandible retreating in a straight line obliquely upwards and backwards from 

 interramal space to rictus. Wings moderately long ; tail exceedingly short, 

 the latter contained about three and two-thirds times in the length of the for- 

 mer from carpus to end of longest primary; tail much rounded. Tarsus much 

 compressed, posteriori}' and laterally reticulate, anteriorly scutellate, much 

 shorter than the middle toe and claw. Outer and middle toes about equal in 

 length ; the claw of the latter much larger than that of the former ; tip of inner 

 claw reaching base of middle one. Claws compressed, moderatelj^ arched, 

 acute, the outer one not grooved on its outer face, the middle one greatly di- 

 lated along its inner edge. A furrow in the plumage behind the eyes. 



The genus as here constituted is restricted so as to comprehend only Iroile 

 and the species intimately related. It differs from Uria proper in several 

 l)oiuts, some of them of decided importance. For the benefit of those who may 

 be sceptical regarding the propriety of separating the two forms as genera, their 

 distinctive characters are here antithetically tabulated : 



Uria [grylle). 



Bill about equal to the tarsus ; 

 moderately compressed. 



Rictus straight, except just at tip. 



Gonys straight, half as long as cul- 

 men. 



Upper mandible not grooved. 



Tomial edges of upper mandible 

 scarcely inflected. 



Nasal fossffi wide, deep, mostly naked ; 

 nostrils partially covered with feathers. 



Feathers on side of lower mandible 

 forming a salient rounded outline. 



Tail short, slightly rounded, con- 

 tained 2f times in the wing, 



Tarsus entirely reticulate. 



Tarsus scarcely shorter than middle 

 toe without claw. 



Outer face of outer claw grooved. 



Size moderate ; no postocular furrow 

 in the plumage. 



LoMViA {troile). 



Bill much longer than the tarsus ; 

 much compressed. 



Rictus decurved for great part of its 

 length. 



Gonys concave, nearly as long as 

 culmen. 



Upper mandible grooved nearthetip. 



Tomial edges of upper mandible much 

 inflected. 



Nasal fossfe narrow, shallow, feath- 

 ered ; nostrils covered with feathers. 



Feathers on side of lower mandible 

 in a straight oblique line. 



Tail very short, much rounded, con- 

 tained 3| times in the wing. 



Tarsus anteriorly scutellate. 



Tarsus much shorter than middle toe 

 without claw. 



Outer face of outer claw not grooved. 



Size large ; a postocular furrow in 

 the plumage. 



Species — (4 ?). 



I. Depth of bill opposite nostrils not more than a third of the length of culmen. 



No white on sides of head ; bill slender, not dilated at 



base; culmen, rictus and gouys much curved 1. troile. 



A white ring and line on sides of head ; bill as in 



troile 2. rinyvia. 



No white on sides of head; bill stout, dilated at base ; 



culmen, rictus and gonys nearly straight 3. californica. 



II. Depth of bill opposite nostrils more than a third of the 



length of culmen 4. svarbag. 



LoMViA TROILE, [Linn.) Brandt. 



Lomvia Iloieri, Ray, Syn. Meth. Av., p. 120 ; fide Bryant. 

 Uria major, Ger. i, p. 549 ; fide Bryant. 

 Plautus rcftro larino, Klein. Av., p. 146, No. 2 ; fide Bryant. 

 Colymbus troille, Linn.'eus, " Fn. Suec, ed. of 1761, No. 109." Idem, Syst. Nat. 

 i, 1766, xii ed. p. 220; not Uria troille, Briinn., which is Alca lomvia, Linn., 



1868.] 




76 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



1758. Gmelin, Syst. Nat. i, pt. ii, p. 788, p. 585; quotes ?o?«j;m of Briinnich, 

 No. 108. Doniulorff, Beytr. Zool. ii, pt. i, 1794, p. 874; confuses the quota- 

 tions of several species : e. ff., quotes Uria troile, Lath., and Alca lomvia of 

 Linnteus' tenth edition. 

 Uria troile, Latham, Ind. Orn. ii, 1790, p. 796, No. 1. Retzius, Fn. Suecica, p. 

 149. Nilsson, Ornith. Suec. 1821, ii, p. 142. Temminclv, Man. Orn. ii, 1820, 

 p. 921. Selby, lllust. Brit. Ornith. ii, 183 4. p. 420. Reinhardt, Natur. Bidrag, 

 p. 18, No. 87. Gould, B. Eur. v, 1837, pi. 396. Fleming, Hist. Brit. Auim. 

 p. 134. De Kay, N. Y. Zool. 1844, Birds, p. 279. Gray, Genera Birds, iii, 

 1849, p. 644. Naumann, Naturg. Yog. Deutsch. ix, 1847, pi. 331. Peabody, 

 Rep. Nat. Hist. Mass. Birds, p. 399; confuses troile and rinqvia. Thompson, 

 Nat. Hist. Ireland, iii, 1851, p. 207. Macgillivray, Hist. Brit. Birds, ii, 1852, 

 p. 318. Bryant, Pr. Bost. Soc. N. H. May, 1861, p. 74. 

 Uria (Lomvia) troile, Brandt, Bull. Acad. St. Petersb. ii, 1837, p. 345. Bona- 

 parte, Consp. Gav. Comptes Rendus, 1856, xlii, p. 774. 

 Catarractes troille, Bryant, Monog. Genus Cat. in Pr. Bost. Soc. N. H. 1861, p. 

 6, fig. 2a. Verrill, Proc. B. S. N. H. Oct. 1862, p. 143. Idem, Proc. Essex 

 Inst, iii, 1863, p. 160. 

 Uria lomvia, Briinnich, Orn. Bor. 1764, p. 27, No. 108 ; quotes Alca lomvia, 

 Willoughby, t. 65. Not Alca lomvia, Linn., 1758. Scopoli, Bemerk. Naturg. 

 i, 1777, p. 88, No. 108; fide Donndorif. Keyserling and Blasius, Werbelth. 

 Europ. 1840, p. 238. 

 Uria [Cataractes) lomvia, Cassin. Baird's B. N. A. 1858, p. 913. Coues, Pr. A. 



N. S. Phila. Aug. 1861, p. 256. Boardman, Pr. 3. S. N. H. 1862, p. 131. 

 ? Cepphus lomvia, Pallas, Zoog. R.-A. 1811, ii, p. 345 ; quotes lomvia,^o. 108, of 

 Briinnich, as ,^, and svarbag, No. 110, of Briinnich, as 9 ! ^'so quotes Col. 

 troile of Linnffius' 12th edition. Perhaps really refers to californicus. 

 Alca lomvia, Schlegel, Urinatores Mus. Pays-Bas, livr. ix, 1867, p. 15. (Not of 

 Linnaeus.) Ex parte. Author considers the present and the succeeding spe- 

 cies to be varieties of one and the same species. Describes both under same 

 name. Quotes Uria lom.via et swarbeg [lege svarbag] of Briinnich ; Colyinlus 

 troile of Linnaeus ; and Uria rhinyvia [lege ringvia] of Briinnich. 

 Colymbus nmior, Gmelin, S. N. i, pt. ii, 1788, p. 585 ; confuses three species by 

 describing troile, and quoting Briinnich's No. 110 [svarbag) and Briinnich's 

 No. Ill {ringvia). DonndorfF, Beytr. Zool. ii, pt. i, p. 873 ; confuses three 

 species, by quoting Latham's var. B and Briinnich's Nos. 110, 111. Author's 

 var. y is true ringvia. 

 Uria minor, Stephens, Shaw's Gen. Zool. xii, 1824, p. 246, pi. 63; erroneously 

 quotes svarbag, Briinn. 



European and American coasts and islands of the North Atlantic, to or be- 

 yond 80° N. On the American coast, breeds from Nova Scotia northward. 

 " Its most favorite breeding-places south of the Straits of Belle Isle, are the 

 Funk Islands, off the coast of Newfoundland, Bird Rock, near the Magdalen 

 Islands, in the Gulf of St. Lawrence, and a number of small islands, generally 

 called JIurre Rocks, between Meccatina and the Esquimaux Islands, on the 

 north shore of the Gulf," (Bryant). In winter to the extreme southern coast 

 of New England. Specimens in all American cabinets. 



Adult, summer plumage. — Head and neck all around rich dark brown, A'hich 

 changes on the back of the neck into dark slaty-brown, the color of the rest of 

 the upper parts. This hue is nearly uniform, but most of the feathers of the 

 back and rump have usually just appreciably lighter and more grayish-brown 

 tips. Secondaries narrowly, distinctly tipped with pure white. Exposed por- 

 tion of primaries dusky blackish, the shafts of the few outermost, and the 

 greater part of the inner webs of the whole, lighter (more grayish-brown), 

 tending to grayish-white towards the bases. Under wing coverts mostly white, 

 variegated with dusky along the edges of the wing, and the greater coverts 

 mostly of this latter color. Entire under parts from the throat pure white; 



[Jan. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 77 



tlie whole length of the sides under the wings streaked with dusky or slatj-- 

 brown. Bill black ; mouth yellow; iris brown ; legs and feet blackish. 



Adult, winter plumage. — As before; the rich brown of the head darker in hue, 

 arid more like the rest of the upper parts ; the white of the under parts extend- 

 ing to the bill, upon the sides of the head to or slightly aliove the level of the 

 commissure, upon the side of the neck so far around as to leave only a narrow 

 isthmus of dark color, which is somewhat interrupted by white mottling. The 

 white shades gradually into the darker color, without a trenchant line of de- 

 marcation, and varies greatly in its precise outliue. Usually a pretty well de- 

 fined spur of dark color runs out backwards from the eye into the white of the 

 sides of the occiput, the spur occupying the borders of the postocular furrow 

 in the plumage. On the sides of the lower neck, just in advance of the wings, 

 the dark color extends in a point further than it does higher up, showing the 

 extent of the dark brown of the summer vesture. 



Young, of the first winter, are colored precisely like the adults, but may be 

 always distinguished by their much shorter and slenderer bills, which are in 

 great part light colored (yellowish). The feet are also much tinged anteriorlv 

 with yellowish. 



Fledgelings are brownish-dusky, the breast and abdomen white ; and with a 

 few dull whitish streaks upon the head and hind neck. 



Dimensions. — Adult. — Length about 17-00 ; extent 30-00 ; wing 8-00 ; tail 

 2-25 , tarsus 1 --lO ; middle toe and claw 2-10 ; inner do. 1-70; outer do. 2-00 : 

 bill along culmen 1-75, along rictus 2-50 ; along gonys 1-15; depth at base 

 •55 ; width at same point .30. Bill of young, first winter : culmen 1-50 ; rictus 

 2-2.') ; gonys -90 ; depth at base -45 ; width at base -25. 



This species is well known to vary to a certain degree in size, and in the 

 precise shape of the bill. The dimensions above given represent very nearly 

 the average of a large suite of specimens measured. In colors, the variations, 

 though considerable, are unimportant, consisting in the difference in shade of 

 the colors of the upper parts, and the difference in precise outline of the dark 

 and light colors about the head and neck, in summer as well as in winter spe- 

 cimens. Specimens just before the renewal of the feathers have the upper 

 parts distinctly barred or waved with gray, owing to the fading of the tips of 

 the old feathers ; and the wing and tail feathers light dull gray. The difference 

 in intensity of coloration depends chiefly upon season, though individual pe- 

 culiarities may be observed. Very highly plumaged birds have the upper parts 

 almost uniform in hue. 



The synonymy of this species is very extensive, and somewhat intricate, 

 though it is possible to collate it with much accuracy and certaint}-, provided 

 more labor be bestowed than the importance of the matter warrants, as seems 

 to the writer to have been the case in the present instance. In consequence of 

 the peculiarly obvious nature of the characters which distinguish the several 

 closely allied species from the present one, even the brief diagnoses of the 

 most antiquated authors may be recognized and identified, in the majoritv of 

 instances. But it is curious to uote that the various names most in voo'ue for 

 two or three species of this genus have been so frequently interchanged, and so 

 variousl}- applied, not only in a specific, but in a generic, sense, that they have 

 really come at last to mean nothing more than simply Murre or Guillemot. It 

 is absolutely necessary to refer to a writer's description, or his authorities 

 quoted, before we can have any idea to what species he alludes under any given 

 name; — certainly a very discouraging state of affairs, and one not placini^- orni- 

 thologj' in a very creditable light. 



The present species is Linnaeus' troille, of Fn. Suec. 1761, and S. X. 1766, 

 and is so regarded by most writers. It is the lomvia of Briinnich, which name 

 is usually adopted by those writers who date Linn^us' prerogative of prioritj' at 

 1766. It is minor of Gmelin, who to a description of this species adds the 

 synonyms of two others. It is not troille of Briinnich, nor lomvia of Linnaeus. 



1868.] 




78 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



LoMViA RINGVIA, (BiUnn.) Brandt. 



Uria ringvia, Briinnich, Orn. Bor. i, 764, p. 28, No. Ill ; " linea a cantbo oculi 

 exterior! per latera capitis iiigrantia decurrit alba." Reinhardt, Bidrag. Na- 

 turg. p. 18. Naumann, Naturg. Vog. Deutsch. xii, 1847, p. 360, pi. 332. 

 Keyserling and Blasius, Wirbelth. Europ. 1840. p. 238. Gray, Genera Birds, 

 1849. iii, p. 644. Bryant, Proc. B. S. N. H. 1861, p. 7 '.. 

 Uria [Lomvia) ringvia, Brandt, Bull. Acad. St. Petersb. ii, 1837, p. 345. Bona- 

 parte, Tabl. Comp. Pelagiens, Comptes Rendus, 1856, xlii, p. 774. 

 Uria (Calaractes) ringvia, Cassin, Baird's B. N. A. 1858, p. 914. Two of the 

 specimens enumerated belong to californica, Bryant. Description that of true 

 ringvia. Boardman, Proc. B. S. N. H. Sept. 1862, p. 131. 

 Catarractes ringvia, Bryant, Monog. Gen. Cat. in Pr. Bost. Soc. N. H. 1861, p. 8, 

 fig. 2. Verrill, Pr. B. S. N. H. 1862, p. 143. Id., Pr. Ess. Inst, iii, 1863, p. 160. 

 Uria alga, Briinnich, Orn. Bor. 1764, p. 28, No. 112. RingviEe " simillima, ex- 



ceptis rectricibus totis nigris." 

 Coltnnbus langvia, " Plaff, Reise n. Isl. p. 562 ;" fide Brj-ant. 

 Colymhus troile, var. /?, Donndortf, Beytr. Zool. ii, pt. i, 1794, p. 875; quotes 



Briinnich's No. 112 {alga), and Latham's, No. 1, var. y (also alga). 

 Colymhus troile, var. y, Donndorff, Beytr. Zool. ii, pt. i, 1794, p. 876. " Colym- 

 bus anuulo oculorum et linea pone oculos albis." Quotes Miiller, Zool. dan. 

 Prod. p. 19, No. 152(/. 

 Uria lachrymans, La Pylaie. " f'horis. Voyages Pitt, autour du monde, 23 ;" 

 fide Bryant. Yarrell, Brit. Birds, iii, p. 351. Temminck, Man. iv, p. 574. 

 Gould, B. Eur. v, 1837, pi. 397. Macgillivray, Hist. Brit. B., ii, 1852, p. 326. 

 Uria leucopsis, Brehem, "Vog. iii, p. 880." 

 Uria leucophthalmos, Faber, Isis v. Oken, 1824, p. 146. Thompson, Nat. Hist. 



Ireland, iii, 1851, p. 211. 

 ZTria troille leucophlhalmus, Faber, Prod. Isl. Orn. 1822, p. 42. 

 Uria troile, Bonaparte, Synopsis, 1828, p. 424. Two species confused. Not 

 Colymhus troille Linn., nor Uria troille Briinn. Audubon, Orn. Biogr. 1835, 

 iii, p. 142, pi. 218, fig. 1 ; oct. ed. vii, pi. 473, fig. 1. Figure 2 represents 

 troile, of which the author considers the present species to be the adult. Gi- 

 raud. Birds Long Island, 1844, p, 376. 



American and European coasts and islands of the North Atlantic. On the 

 American coast, breeds in the Gulf of St. Lawrence ; in winter ranges south to 

 the southern extremity of New England. Habitat the same as that of troile, 

 with which it is usually found in intimate association. Spec, in Mus. Acad. 

 Philada., Mus. Smiths. Inst., Cab. G. N. Lawrence. 



Absolutely identical with L. troile, except in having a white ring around, and 

 white line behind, the eye. The white ring occupies the margins of both eye- 

 lids, forming a perfect circle, posteriorly continuous with the white line which 

 occupies the furrow in the plumage, and is an inch or more long. 



The changes of plumage of this species, and the individual differences to 

 which it is subject, are absolutely identical with those of i. troile. The white 

 ring and line are usually, if not always, present in winter specimens. 



The white ring and line are said to be sometimes wanting. But specimens 

 without this character cannot be distinguished from L. troile. 



None of the specimens contained in American museums offer any grounds 

 for contradiction of the preceding statements. 



Such being the facts in the case, each one must be allowed to determine for 

 himself the relationship of L. ringvia. to L. troille, according to the notion he 

 may entertain of species. In forming an opinion, the facts must be borne in 

 mind that the two kinds of Guillemots are always found intimately associated, 

 and that they are known to copulate with each other. 



It is probable that the peculiar character upon which the species rests is an 

 individual peculiarity, not a specific difference. 



This bird appears to have been first described and named by Briinnich under 

 the designation ringvia. Alga of this author is the same bird without white 



[Jan. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



79 



tips to the secondaries. Subsequently several names have been proposed, as 

 will be seen by the synonymy adduced ; each based upon the head-markings. 

 The bird has also frequently been described as troile, var. 



LoMViA CALiFORNicA, [Bryant,) Coues. 



? Cepphus lomvia, Pallas, Zoog. R.-A. ii, 1811, p. 345, synon. excl. 



Urid troile, Newberry, Pacific R. R. Rep. vi, pt. iv, 1857, p. 110. Not of 



authors. (Coast of California ) 

 Uria Brilnnichii, Heermann, Pacific Rr. Rep. x, 1859, Route to California, 



Birds, p. 75 : synon. excl. Not of authors. (Farrallone Islands.) 

 Catarractes californicus, Bryant, Monogr. Gen. Cat. Pr. Bost. Soc. N. H., 18G1, 



p. 11, figs. 3 and 5. (Farrallone Islands, coast of California.) 



Pacific coast of North America. Farrallone Islands,, coast of California : 

 breeding ; (Mas. Smiths. Inst, and Cab. H. Bryant ; the types of the species :) 

 Sitka, Russian America ; wintering ; Mus. Smiths. Inst.) 



Fig. IG. — Lomvia californica, (Bry.) Nat. size. 



(No. 17404, Mus. Smiths. A type of the species.) Entirely like iroile, except 

 in the form of the bill. Bill somewhat longer than that of troile, on an 

 average ; deeper at the base, less decnrved towards the tip, the several outlines 

 straighter. Culmen straight to near the tip, then moderately deflexed ; rictus 

 almost perfectly straight in its entire length, the commissural edge of the 

 upper mandilDle toward its base somewhat expanded and everted, as in svarbag, 

 though not to the same degree ; the feathers on the side of the upper mandible 

 not covering the tomial edge until very near the angula oris ; gonys perfectly 

 straight and very long, with a corresponding shortness of the mandibular 

 rami ; the angle at symphysis prominent, acute. " Iris white," (collector's 

 label.) Length 16-00; extent 27-00, (label ;) wing 8-00; tail 2-25; tarsus 

 1-40, middle toe and claw 2-25, outer do. 2-10, inner do. 1-70 ; bill along culmen 

 1-90, along rictus 2-90, along gonys 1.30; its depth at angle of gonys -60, its 

 width opposite base of nostrils -35. 



WiritS plumage. — (No. 46522, Mus. Smiths. Sitka, Nov. 1866.) In this speci- 

 men the bill is shorter (1-75 along culmen) than in the type above described, 

 and the culmen and rictus are more decurved. The peculiar shajie, however, 

 is still preserved, the lower mandible being deep and very prominent at the 

 eminentia symphysis. The bird is probably one of the first winter. The 

 plumage is entirely parallel with that of troile at the corresponding season. 

 The upper parts are fully as dark as in the average of winter specimens of the 

 latter species. The white of the under parts extends to the bill, and along the 

 edge of the under mandible and eyes. Further back it invades the sides of 

 the occiput and nape, where it is separated from the white of the throat Ijy a 

 prominent well defined spur of dark color protruding from the eye. 



1868.] 




80 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



As stated bj"- Dr. Bryant, the dark parts of this species are rather paler in 

 tint than the average of those of troile. But this is not a diagnostic feature, 

 for it does not hold good in perhaps even a majority of instances. The iris, 

 according to the label, is white ; but Dr. Bryant remarks that he can hardly 

 credit this ; though if constant it would be a strong character. The only re- 

 liable diagnostic features are found in the shape of the bill, as just described. 

 In spite of the moderate amount of individual variation to which the bill is 

 subject, it always preserves its peculiar shape, which is sufficiently different 

 from that of iroileto attract attention without direct comparison of specimens. 

 One feature which appears to have escaped Dr. Bryant's attention lies in the 

 inflation and eversion of the basal portion of the tomia of the upper mandible, 

 and their comparatively scanty feathering. This is an approach towards the 

 peculiar character of svarbar/, though by no means attaining such development 

 as in that species. It is readily appreciable in amount in the majority of 

 specimens. 



It is worthy of note, that the peculiarities of bill which characterize this 

 species as compared with troile, are very much the same as those found in the 

 bill of U. columba, as compared with U. grylle. 



It is also to be observed, that the ringvia style of Murre has not been found 

 on the Pacific coast. Should the probability of its non-occurrence become a 

 certainty, the obvious inference would be additional evidence in favor of the 

 specific distinction of californica. 



Numerous examples of this species are in the Smithsonian Museum, among 

 them Dr. Bryant's types. The bird breeds much further south than its Atlan- 

 tic representative, occurring in summer on the coast of California. 



Among the specimens enumerated in the "Birds of North America" by 

 Mr. Cassin, under head of Uria ringvia, are two examples of this species, from 

 California. It is possible that this species rather than troile is alluded to by 

 Pallas under the name of Cepphus lomvia. 



The figure is not a very good representation, the culmen and gonys not being 

 straight enough. The under mandible, however, is well delineated. 



LoMViA svARBAQ, {^Brumi.) Coues. 



Alca lomvia, Linnaeus, Syst. Nat. Ed. x, 1758, p. 130, No. 4. " Rostro lavi 

 oblongo, mandibula superiore margine flavescente." 



Uria lomvia, Brj^ant, Proc. Bost. Soc. N. H., May, 1861, p. T5. Not of authors, 

 which is generally applied to troille Linn. 



Catarracles lomvia, Bryant, Mon. Gen. Cat. in Pr. B. S. N. H. 1861, p. 9, figs. 

 1 and 4. Verrill, Proc. Essex Inst, iii, 1863, p. 160. 



Vria troille, Briinnich, Orn. Bor. 1764, p. 27, No. 109. "Rostro latiore et 

 breviore, cujus margines, etiam in exsiccatas exuviis, flavescunt." Not 

 Colymbus troille Linn. 



Uriasvarhag, Briinnich, Orn. Bor. 1764, p. 27, No. 110. Winter plumage. 



Cepphus arra, Pallas, Zoog. R.-A. ii, 1811, p. 347. 



Uria arra, Keyserling and Blasius, Wirb. Europ. 1840, p. 237. Cassin, Pr. 

 A. N. S. Phila. 1862, p. 324. (Northwest coast of America.) Naumann, 

 Naturg. Vog. Deutsch. xii, 1847, p. 536, pi. 333. 



Uria [Lomvia) arra, Bonaparte, Tabl. Comp. Pelag. Comptes Rendus, 1856, 

 xlii, p. 774. * 



Uria (Uataractes) arra, Cassin, Baird's B. N. A., 1858, p. 914. ^ 



Ulca arra, Schlegel, Urinatores Mus. Pays-Bas, livr. ix, 1867, p. 16. 



Uria Briinnichii, Sabine, Trans. Linn. Soc. xii, 1818, p. 538. Temminck, Man. 

 Orn. 1820, ii, p. 924. Bonaparte, Synopsis, 1828, p. 424. Nuttall, Man. 

 Orn. ii, p. 529. Temminck, Man. Orn. ii. p. 576 : p. 924. Reinhardt, Natur. 

 Bidrag. p. 18, No. 88. Yarrell, Brit. Birds, p. 348. Swainson and Rich- 

 ardson, F. B. A. 1831, ii, p. 477. Gould, Birds Europ. v, 1837, pi. 398. 

 Audubon, Orn. Biog. iii, 1835, p. 336, pi. 345 ; oct. ed. vii, pi. 472. Pea- 

 body, Rep. Nat. Hist. Mass. Birds, 1840, p. 400. Gray, Gen. Birds, iii, 1849, 



[Jan. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 81 



p. 644. Thompson, Nat. Hist. Ireland, iii, 1851, p. 213. Macgillivray, Hist. 



Brit. Birds, ii, 1852, p. 314. 

 Uria (Lomvia) Briinnichii, Brandt, Bull. Acad. St. Petersb. 1837, ii, p. 345. 

 Uria Francsii, Leach, Trans. Linn. Soc. xii, IblS, p. 588. Stephens, Shaw's 



Gen. Zool. xii, 1824, p. 243, i)l. G2, fig. 2. Giraud, Birds Long Island, 1844, 



p. 377. DeKay, New York Zoolog. Birds, 1844, p. 280. Peabody, Rep. 



Birds Massachusetts, p. 400. 

 Uria polar is ^ Brehm. 



Coast of the North Atlantic and Pacific, and of the Arctic Seas. Herald 

 Island, (Mus. Smiths.) In winter, on the American coast south to New 

 Hampshire, (author's Cabinet) and New Jersey, (Mus. Acad. Philada.) Breeds 

 in the Gulf of St. Lawrence, (Bryant) 



Form subtypical of the genus. Bill short, hardly exceeding the tarsus in 

 length of culmeu, very stout, wide and deep at the base ; culmcn curved in 

 its whole length ; rictus straight for about half its length, then much deflexed ; 

 gonys long, its outline decidedly concave ; mandibular rami short, eminentia 

 symphysis very prominent ; tomial edges of the upp^r 7uandible in their basal 

 half turgid, and entirely bare of feathers. Slightly larger, and rather more 

 robustly organized than iroile. In other respects of form identical with 

 troile ; the plumage and its changes also the same. The turgid portion of the 

 tomia of the upper mandible flesh colored in life, becoming yellowish in the 

 dried state. 



Length 18-00; extent 32-00 ; wing 8-50 ; tail 2-25; tarsus 1-25, middle toe 

 and claw 2-10, outer do. 1-90, inner do. 1-60, bill along culmen 1-40, along 

 rictus 2-20, along gonys -90, depth at eminentia symphysis -55, width at base of 

 nostrils -30, at augula oris -80. 



The peculiar shai)e of the bill strongly characterizes this species. It is a 

 rather more robust bird than troile, and upon an average a little larger. The 

 colors of the plumage are not very appreciably di&erent ; perhaps slightly 

 darker, and tending a little more decidedly towards a slaty or plumbeous hue, 

 particularly in winter. The seasonal changes are precisely the same. The 

 only decided difference in color lies in the whitish or yellowish hue of the 

 expanded tomia of the upper mandible. 



Briinnich's Guillemot appears to be the most boreal species of the genus, 

 frequenting the Arctic seas, as well as more temperate latitudes. At the same 

 time it has been found farther south in winter, on the Atlantic coast of North 

 America, than the other species ; and is of frequent occurrence on the United 

 States coast at that season. It is also of constant occurrence in the North 

 Pacific. 



This is unquestionably the Alca lomvia of Linnaeus, 1758. The name should 

 stand for the species, were it not now in use for the genus. It has been more 

 usually employed for troile. The troile of Briinnich is unmistakeably this spe- 

 cies, but is preoccupied by its Linnean application for the common species. 

 Svarbag, Briinnich, comes next in order. This is based upon the winter plum- 

 age, and must stand as the specific designation of the bird. Pallas named it 

 Cepphus arra in 1811; and Sabine renamed it Uria Brunnichii'xn \QIQ. Both 

 these names, but particularly the latter, are in very general employ at the pre- 

 sent day. Francsii of Leach, 1818, also this species, has never had much of a 

 run with writers. 



List of BIBDS collected in Southern Arizona by Dr. E. Palmer ; with remarks. 



BY DR. ELLIOTT COUES, U. S. A. 



Dr. Palmer has kindly transmitted to me a list of the birds collected by him 

 at Camp Grant, about sixty miles east of Tucson, Arizona, during the present 

 year. The species are identified by Prof. Baird. The collection contains four 

 species (marked with an asterisk in the following list) not previously accre- 



1868.] 6 




82 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



dited to the Territory. Although by no means a complete exponent of the 

 birds of Soiithern Arizona, the list is valuable in clearly indicating some difl'er- 

 ences between the avifaunas of the southern desert and northern mountainous 

 portions of the Territory. Compare the species mentioned below with those 

 characterizing the Fort Whipple fauna, as elucidated in my " Prodrome," 

 Pr. A. N. S. Phila. Jan. 18ti(j. 



In my "Prodrome," 245 species are enumerated ; one of which (Orthiola 

 flaveola) was inserted by mistake. The present collection raises the number 

 to 248. The various species mentioned passim in my paper as of probable 

 occurrence, will, when substantiated as inhabitants of the Territory, further 

 increase the number to about 2(J0. 



iSome manuscript notes with which Dr. Palmer has favored me are placed 

 in quotation marks. Species known to occur throughout the Territory are in 

 small capitals ; others iu italics. 



Cathartes ADRA,*Linn. 

 Falco sparverius, Linn. 

 AocipiTER CooPEKi, Bouap. 



"Nesting, June 1st, iu crotches of cottonwood trees along river bottoms." 



Aquila canadensis, Linn. 



One of the southermost localities on record for this species. 



Geococcyx californianus, Less. 



Chiefly southern and western Arizona. Rare or casual at Fort Whipple. 

 " Very destructive to small animals, snakes, and hard-shelled insects." 



Cliordeilcs texensis, Lawr. 



Chiefly southern and western Arizona. Not observed at Fort Whipple, 

 where C. Uenryi is abundant. 



Centurus ui-opygialis, Baird. 

 Chiefly southern and western Arizona. Rare or accidental at Fort Whipple. 



Myiarchus mexicanus, Kaup. 



" Is very fond of hovering around the giant cactus, Cereus giganteua, when 

 in bloom, to catch the wasps and bees. Builds a loosely constructed, flat nest, 

 often in dwelling-houses." 



Sayornis sayvs, Bon. 



The egg of this species. Prof. Baird writes me, is much like that of Empido- 

 nax TraiUii. Dr. Palmer's specimens are the first ones ever obtained. "The 

 nest was procured May 3d, from the eaves of a house. The parent birds, when 

 alarmed. Hovered about uttering plaintive cries, and returned to renew their 

 mournful notes for several days after the invasion of their home." 



Pyrocophahis mexicanuf:, Sclater, P. Z. S. 1859, p. 45. 



Southern and western Arizona. Has not been found as high as Fort 

 W^hipple. 



Aftliis Costa; Bourc. 



Chiefly southern and western ; perhaps to Fort Whipple. 



Trochilus Alexandrl, Bourc. 



I included this species in my " Prodrome " (p. 20), mainly on the strength 

 of its occurrence in the Colorado Valley, very near the river (Mojave River, 

 Dr. J. G. Cooper). Dr. Palmer is, I believe, the first to detect it actually 

 within the Territorial limits. Possibly it should be in small capitals. "Nest 

 six feet high, in a bush, in a deep ravine." 



TuRDUs MiGEATORius, Linn. 



SlALIA MEXICANA, SwaiuS. 



Antuus ludovicianus, Licht. 



[Jan. 




NATURAL SCIE^X"ES OF PHILADELPHIA. 83 



Pykanga ludoviciana, Wils. 

 Dendeoeca Auduboki, Towns. 

 D. iESTivA, GmeL 

 Myiodioctes pusillus, Wils. 

 Campiflorhi/ncIiHs bnmiieicapiUus, Lafres. 



Chiefly soutliein and western Arizona. "Builds between the arms of the 

 giant cactus, and among the branches of more arborescent ones ; also in the 

 shrub called ' palo venle ' by the Mexicans " (FoiKjueria?). " A nest taken 

 May 15th was of an elongated shape, loosely built of straws and sticks ; the 

 foundation thick, raising the eggs to the middle of the nest. The orifice in 

 the side of the nest was small, and partially concealed by loose out-hanging 

 materials." 



Salpinctes obsoletcs, Say. ■,■ 



Throughout the Territory, but most abundant in its warmer portions. 



* Harporhynchus curvirostris. Cab. 



My remarks (Prodrome, p. 29) upon Dr. Heermann's notice of this species 

 are to be cancelled, as not pertinent. Dr. H.'s specimen is commented upon 

 by Baird (B. N. A. 1858, p. 352), and referred with a query to H. currirostris. 

 Dr. Palmer's specimens add the species to the Territory. "Rare. Builds in 

 arborescent cactuses, a few feet from the ground. The nest is upright, with 

 loose twigs projecting all around. Two eggs were found in one." 



Vireo pusillus, Coues, Prodrome, p. 40. Baird, Review, p. 3(J0. V. Belli, 

 Cooper, (nee And.) Pr. Cal. Acad. Nat. Sci. p. 122. 

 First obtained by Mr. Xantus at Cape St. Lucas ; then by Dr. Cooper at San 

 Diego, Cal. ; then by the writer at Date Creek, a little south of Whipple. 

 The present specimens farther extend its range. It should perhaps be in 

 small capitals. Dr. Palmer has obtained the eggs. 



Ph^\opepla nitens, Swains. 



" Feeds upon the berries of the parasitic plant" (Arceuthobium ? Phora- 

 dendrou ?) " which grows on the large mezquite trees. Is extremely shy, with 

 a quick, high flight." 



ICTERIA LONGICAUDA, Lawr. 



" Nests in thick underbrush. Feeds upon wild currants." 



Aiiriparusjlaviceps, Suudevall. 



Southern and western. Not found in the mountainous districts. "Builds 

 upon the outer limbs of bushes along shady river banks. The weight of the 

 nest often causes the limb to hang nearly to the ground." 



Carpodacus frontalis, Say. 

 Chrysomitris psaltria, Say. 

 Zonotrichia Gtambeli, Nuttall. 



POOECETES GRAMINEtJS, Gm. 



Chondestes grammaca, Say. 

 Melospiza fallax, Baird. 

 Spizella Beeweri, Cassin. 

 Spizella socialis, Wils. 



Pnnspiza bilineaia, Cassin. 



Perhaps to be in small capitals ; but certainly most abundant in southern 

 and western Arizona. " A nest containing three eggs was built in a dwarf 

 mezquite bush, a few inches from the ground." 



Culamosplza bicolor, Towns. 



I did not find this species at Fort Whipple, and have no reason to believe 

 1868.] 




84 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



that it occurs in northern Arizona, though it is found much furtlier north 

 (Kansas, Nebraska, etc.), along other meridians of longitude. But it is never- 

 theless common in the Gila Valley, and thence extends to the Pacific, though 

 it does not reach the ocean in the latitudes of Upper California, Oregon and 

 Washington. There is something peculiar in its distribution, not satisfactorily 

 explained upon any hypothesis touching the climate or physical geography of 

 the regions inhabited by it. 



*CardinaUsigneus, Baird, Pr. A. N. S. Philad. 1859. 



Not before recorded from Arizona. This is a Cape St. Lucas species, which, 

 as I remarked (Prodrome, p. 54), was to be expected to occur in southern 

 Arizona, though I had at that time no authority for including it in my list. 

 Its present acquisition is a matter of much interest. 



Pyrrhuloxia sinuata, Bonap. 



Confined to the southern districts. 



GUIRACA MELAKOCEPHALA, SwaiuS. 



" Builds a flatfish nest in crotches of young willows, a few feet from the 

 ground." 



PiPILO CHLOKURA, TownS. 



Pipilo mcsoleucus, Baird. 



Chiefly southern and western Arizona, but extends very near Fort Whipple. 

 Dr. Palmer says that it nests in much the same situations as those selected by 

 the Icteria longicauda. 



Pipilo Ahertii, Baird. 



This, and the preceding species, are nearly identical in their range, and are 

 the characteristic species of the genus in the Gila and Colorado Valleys. Will 

 not P. albigula (Baird, Pr. A. N. S. Phila. 1859 ; from Cape St. Lucas) be 

 hereafter detected in south-western Arizona ? 



molothrds pecoris, gm. 



Agel^us — ? 



Xanthocephalus icterocephalcs, Bonap. 



*Icterus eucullatus, Swains. 



An acquisition. Not previously detected in the United States, except in 

 the valley of the Lower Rio Grande. /. Bullockii has been hitherto the only 

 Oriole accredited to the Territory. 



Stcrxella keglecta, Aud. 



CoRvus carnivorus, Bartram. 



LoPHOKTYx Gambeli, Nutt. 



" In early spring the Quail feed much upon mezquite seed, and the tender 

 shoots of a certain aromatic plant. The nest, built among underbrush along 

 the river bottoms, is merely a small shallow depression, tliinly lined with soft 

 grass, leaves and feathers. The eggs are almost exactly like those of the 

 California Quail." (Pale buff, or yellowish-white, blotched and spotted all 

 over with different shades of brown ; of the usual shape in this family.) 



Meleagris mexicana, Gould. 



Generally distributed throughout Arizona and New Mexico ; but rare in 

 certain localities, and extremely abundant in others. 



-iEgiahtis vociferus, Linn. 



FULICA AMERICANA, Gmel. 



Bernicla Hutchinsi, Richardson. 



Ql'ERQUEDULA CYANOPTERA, VieiU. 



[Jan. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 00 



*LopHODYTES crcuLLATus, Gmel. 



Not before recorded from the Territory, though its occarrence was to have 

 been anticipated. (Cf. Prodrome, p. 63.) 



PoDiCEPs coRxuTus, Gmel. 



Jan. 28th. 

 Mr. Cassin, Vice-President, in the Chair. 

 Thirty-one members present. 



The following gentlemen were transferred from the list of members 

 to that of correspondents: Jos. Jones, M.D. ; W. F. •Reynolds, U. S. 

 Top. Eng. 



I)r. Allen's resignation as Corresponding Secretary was read and 

 accepted. 



The following Committees were elected for 1868 : 



Ethnology. — J. Aitken Meigs, S. S. Haldeman, F. V. Hayden. 



Entomology and Crustacea. — John L. Le Conte, J. H. B. Bland, 

 Try on Reakirt. 



Comparative Anatomy and General Zoology. — Joseph Leidy, Har- 

 rison Allen, S. B. Howell. 



Ornithology. — John Cassin, Spencer F. Baird, B. A. Hoopes. 



Mammalogy. — Harrison Allen, E. D. Cope, John Cassin. 



Concholoyy. — Geo. W. Tryon, Jr., Rev. E. R. Beadle, C. F. Parker, 



Herpetology and Icthyology. — Edward D. Cope, S. Wier Mitchell, 

 Chas. Shaefl'er. 



Geology. — Isaac Lea, F. V. Hayden, T. A. Conrad. 



Physics. — Robt. Bridges, R. E. Rogers, Jacob Ennis. 



Library. — Jos. Leidy, John Cassin, Robert Bridges. 



Botany. — Elias Durand, Aubrey H. Smith, Elias Diffenbaugh. 



Mineralogy. — Wm. S. Vaux, S. R. Roberts, Jos. Willcox. 



Palceontology. — T. A. Conrad, Jos. Leidy, "\Vm. M. Gabb. 



Proceedings. — Joseph Leidy, Wm. S. Vaux, John Cassin, Robt. 

 Bridges, Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. 



Prof Edw. D. Cope was elected Corresponding Secretary. 



Feb. 4th. 



The President, Dr. Hays, in the Chair. 



Forty-one members present. 



E. D. Cope made some diservations on the living inhabitants of caves in 

 south-westera Virginia. He said he had examined some fifteen, which were 

 not generally known ; one of them, Spruce Run Cave, in Giles county, for a 



1868.] 




86 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



distance of 2 J miles. He said that, besides bats, the Neotoma f I o r i d a n u rn 

 was very abundant, and made nests like ihose of birds.. He also fouml some 

 articulates peculiar to them. The few molluscs were the same as those of 

 the woods, and did not occur far from the mouth. The only beetle was en- 

 tirely blind, being a new Anophthalmus, A. pu sio of Horn, and was rare. 

 A species of fly, apparently identical wi'h one usually found about excre- 

 ments, was found in all the localities where rats occurred. There were two 

 species of Myriapoda, one the Cambala a n n u 1 a t a Say, quite rare and with 

 rudimental eyes, and the other, most common in the remote recesses only, 

 the Pseudotremia cavernarum Cope, sp. nov. (gen. nov.) of the Lysope- 

 talidae, with eyes better developed. 



Special Meeting, Feb. 6th. 

 Mr. Vaux, Vice-President, in the Chair. 



Twelve members present. 



Dr. Euschenberger announced the death of Mr. Jacob Gilliams, 

 one of the founders of the Academy, on the 4th inst., in the 8()tli 

 year of his age. 



On motion, the meeting adjourned to attend the funeral. 



Feb. nth. 

 The President, Dr. Hays, in the Chair. 



Thirty members present. 



The following paper was presented for publication : 



" Description of some new species of diurnal Lepidoptera. Series 

 III." ByTryon Eeakirt. 



Mr. Vaux, on behalf of Dr. Euschenberger, offered the following 

 resolutions, which were adopted : 



Resolved, That in the death of Jlr. Jacob Gilliams, at an advanced age. the 

 Academy has lost the latest survivor of its seven founders and one of its 

 oldest friends. 



That the society holds in grateful remembrance his efforts to encourage the 

 cultivation of the natural scienes at a period when they attracted the atten- 

 tion of few persons in Philadelphia. 



That to his interest in natural history the foundation of this institution 

 may be in a great measure justly attributed. 



That the friends of the natural sciences recognize in his early labors to 

 establish an institution devoted to the collection of materials and the publi- 

 cation of essays for the purpose of diffusing knowledge of the natural history 

 of »he world, a claim to their lasting respect. 



That the Academy tenders to the members of his family this expression of 

 sympathy in their bereavement; and that the President of the Academy is 

 requested to communicate to them a copy of these resolutions suitably en- 

 grossed. 



Feb. 18th. 

 Mr. Cassik, Vice-President, in the Chair. 

 Thirty- four members present. 



[Feb. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 87 



Feb. 25th. 

 The President, Dpv. Hays, in the Chair. 



Twenty-six members present. 



The deaths of the foUowing gentlemen were announced : INIarcel 

 de Serres, Tobias Wagner, and Gen. Geo. A. McCall. 



The following gentlemen were elected members : Stephen Morris, 

 Thos. T. Tasker, Jr., Stephen P. M. Tasker, Henry G. Morris, Jas. 

 E. Caldwell and C. Newlin Peiree. 



On favorable report of the Committee, the following paper was 

 ordered to be published : 



Descriptions of soma new species of Diurnal LEPIDOPTERA. 



Series III. 



BY TPvYON KEAKIRT. 



.Ol. Lyc.ena jiakina, nov. sp. 



Male. Upper surface lustrous violet blue, edged with a narrow black line ; 

 usually towards the anal angle there are two rounded black spots ; these are, 

 however, sometimes obsolete ; fringe white ; expanse "rf — 1 inch. 



Underneath soiled white ; fore wings' costa, brown ; from the base, five 

 transverse bands extend across the wing from the costa to the inner margin ; 

 the fourth and fifth are sometimes interrupted on the second median veinlet ; 

 a sixth runs down from the costa to the same nervule, and a seventh and 

 narrower one reaches only the third nervule ; following these there is a sub- 

 marginal row of connected lunalse, enclosing oblong darker brown dashes 

 between themselves and the margin. 



Upper half of secondaries traversed by numerous brown lines, commonly 

 six in number, always interrupted in different points, and dilated and com- 

 pressed irregularly ; then there is a soiled white submesial band ; and then 

 the series of luuulse, dashes and spots as on the fore wings, rarely confluent ; 

 the two spots nearest the anal angle are jet black, irrorated with shining 

 green atoms ; and ringed with ochreous-yellow. 



Body black above, clothed with bluish hairs, whitish beneath ; antennse 

 black with whitish annulations. 



Female. Upper surface white, glossed with violet blue at tlie base ; costa 

 of both wings and outer margin of the primaries broadly brown ; the white 

 area of the fore-wings is traversed by three maculate brown belts ; one sub- 

 basal, the second mesial, the third subapical and merging into the brown 

 border. 



Across the disc of the secondaries are several brown rays, and a submargi- 

 nal lunulate brown line encloses a marginal series of large rounded brown 

 spots, of which the second from the anal angle is always the largest and 

 deep brown or black. 



Underneath marked as in the inaJe, but with much less intensity ; the lower 

 portions of the transverse bands of the fore wings are frequently obsolete ; on 

 both wings they are narrower and less compact, thus increasing the white 

 spaces ; the submarginal lunulas and spots, as in the males, wanting some- 

 times the oehreous yellow rings. Expanse '87 — 1'05 inches. 



jE?a6. — Orizaba, Mexico. (Coll. Tryon Reakirt.) 



" Mexico, near Vera Cruz." Wm. H. Edwards. 



Allied to Lijccena Cassius, Cram. 



.52. GoXILOBA DOLORES, HOV. Sp. 



Upper surface clear brown, with olive brown hairs below the median ner- 

 vure of the primaries towards the base, and over the basal half of the secon- 



1868.] 




OO PEOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



daries. Four translucent ochreous spots on the primaries; the first large 

 and near the end of the cell, is of trapezoidal form, with an anjiular indenta- 

 tion upon the outer side ; the second, also trapezoidal, but less than the pre- 

 ceding', is contained within the second and third median veinlets, and situated 

 midway between the first and the outer margin ; the third, resembling an 

 irregular right-angled triangle, is aligned on the first median veiulet, with 

 the second and fourth, which last is small and obovate, placed on the sub- 

 median vein just beyond its middle ; a curved ash-gray bar, widest centrally, 

 and tapering at either eml, extends between these last spots and the cell from 

 the submedian vein to the second median veinlet, touching above the upper 

 angle of the third spot, and below the inner portion of the ovoid. 



Secondaries immaculate ; fringe ochreous yellow, lightly cut with brown ; 

 expanse 2"13 inches. 



Underneath, the primaries have an ash brown apical triangular patch, sep- 

 arated by a brown bar from an irregular purplish ashy belt, extending from 

 the margin down to the second translucent spot, and which contains a darker 

 spot near the middle of its inner margin ; the costa between this belt, and a 

 pale ochreous spot resting thereon, above the translucent spot in the cell, is 

 reddish brown ; the fourth spot of the upper surface is covered by a large 

 pale yellow ovoidal spot ; the ashy bar is wanting. 



Secondaries pale piirplish brown, with darker velvet maroon brown shades, 

 formed into three prominent areas, viz., a broad border, a large central [)atch, 

 and another resting ou and below the middle of the costa ; there are also two 

 basal bars and a series of connected lunulse between the central patch and 

 the marginal band. Antennae brown ; club ochreous beneath. 



Hab. — " Mexico, near Vera Cruz." Wm. "H. Edwards. 



53. Pyrgus Georgina, nov. sp. 



Upper surface black, with asliy shades, and waved brown lines traversing 

 the surface. Primaries : a white spot occupies the middle of the cell ; beyond 

 a mesial white band, broken into two parts, of which the lower occupies the 

 central portion of the first median interspace ; the upper extends from beyond 

 this to the costa ; on the margin, midway between this band and the apex are 

 two small white spots ; there is an indistinct series of submarginal black 

 sjiots, each having a minute wliitish or gray point, sometimes enlarging into 

 an enclosing crescent, attached to its outer exliemity. 



Secondaries : a broad mesial band, bifid on the costa ; below, a sinuated 

 irregular line ; both white ; a submarginal series of indistinct spots. Fringe 

 brown, white towards the anal angle ; expanse 1'25 — 1-5 inches. 



Below, primaries ; an oblong white dash in the cell ; the central band as 

 above ; an abbreviated series of three or four white spots run down from the 

 costa, in place of the two on tlie upper surface ; along the outer margin a 

 series of large white oblong dashes, becoming brownish towards the apex, 

 and containing each a rounded dark brown spot— in the lowest, the spot is 

 geminate. 



Secondaries white, or soiled white, more or less brown towards the base ; a 

 subcentral maculate row of brown spots, of which three or four are contigu- 

 ous, towards the abdominal margin, and two distinct ones nearer the costa ; 

 along the outer margin are connected lunula3, rarely coalescing with the spots 

 of the inner row. 



Body above black ; the rings of the abdomen marked with whitish hairs, 

 underneath white ; palpi white, excepting the terminal article, which is 

 black. Antennae brown, with incomplete white annulations, club tipped with 

 ferruginous. 



Hub. — "Mexico, near Vera Cruz." Wm. H. Edwards. 



Dedicated to my cousin, Mr. Geo. W. Tryon, Jr., the distinguished Con- 

 chologist, as a slight acknowledgement of his unvarying kind assistance in 

 mv studies. 



[Feb. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 89 



54. CiRROCHROA TYCHE, FeldeV. 



C5^ Felder, Wieuer, Entom. Monatschr. v, p. 301, n. 13, (1861.) 



Female. Upper surface ochreous brown ; a broad pale belt cros-^es the 

 outer half of the forewings, bordered interiorly by a gradually diuiinisliiu,:^ 

 waved dark brown bar, broadest below the subcostal vein, and becoming obso- 

 lete towards the inner margin ; the outer margin is dark brown, interior to 

 which are two angulated transverse lines, the outer being brownish black and 

 complete, the inner brownish ochreous, and obsolete in its lower portion ; 

 three indistinct brownish spots arise from the inner margin in the pale belt, 

 decreasing in size upward. 



On the secondaries the transverse belt is suffused with the ochreous ground 

 color, and contains six rounde<l or oval black spots — there being none in the 

 discoidal interspace ; the anterior narrow black line, and the posterior 

 lunulate or angulated lines, — three of these on the hind wings, — are all com- 

 plete, extending from the costal to the abdominal margin, an 1 anal angle. 



Underneath pale ochreous, the markings of the upper surface repeated in 

 pale shades; the outer half of the wing glossed with lilacine ; a continuous 

 lilaceous band underneath the mesial brown line. Expanse 2'75 inches. 



Antennae black, bright ferruginous underneath, and upon the club. 



Bab. — Mindoro. (Or. Chan. Semper.) (Coll. Tryon Reakirt.) 



I am indebted for this beautiful species, along with many other rarities, 

 to Mr. Georg Semper, brother of the celebrated collector. 



55. Papilio Burtoni, nov. sp. 



Size and shape of Pap. Leacaspis, Godt. 



Male. Upper surface pale greenish yellow; a very broad, dark brown 

 terminal band along the outer margin of both wings ; along tlie interior edge 

 of which band, on the forewings, is a darker brown stripe, extending from tlie 

 cell to the inner margin ; two wide dark brown belts traverse the fore wings, 

 both merging into the terminal border — one resting over the end of the cell, 

 cuts otf a small lunulate piece of the ground color, the other is a mesial 

 band, running from the middle of tlie costa towards the inner angle. 



Upon the border of the hind wings are several pair of imperfect lunes, 

 composed of lustrous bluish gray atoms ; above the anal angle a yellow 

 lune, and above this a red lune, sometimes two of these ; the brown border 

 is continued some distance along the abdominal margin. The long slender 

 tail teiminates with a large yellowish white patch. 



Underneath mainly as above ; the outer border of both wings is irrorated 

 with lilacine atoms, assuming the form of luuulae upon the lower portion 

 of the liind wings. Expanse 4 inches. 



Head, throat and abdomen, dark brown. 



Antennse black, with briglit orange brown clubs. 



Hah. — Insagasuga, New Granada. (Coll. Tryon Reakirt.) 



This magnificent species was one of a large collection formed by Hon. A. A. 

 Burton, near Bogota, and has most appropriately been dedicated to him. 



56. Dircesna Bairdii, nov. sp. 



Allied to Dir. Jemima, Hiibn. Wiftgs translucent, ochrey-yellowish, with 

 darker semi-opaque spots and border. 



Male. The fore wings are narrower and more acute than in the related 

 species ; the disposition of the ijellucid spots upon these is similar to Jemima ; 

 tlieir hind margin, however, is black instead of orange-orcheous ; the median 

 vein is orange to the end of the cell ; all the others black. 



Hind wings ; the black terminal border does not extend so far upon the 

 ablominal margin, upon which there is an orange brown patch, and is more 

 diffused inwardly ; the basal half of the wing is ochreous, as are also the veins 

 contained therein ; those upon the outer half, which is covered with the black 

 shade, are black. 



Underneath as above, with the addition of three apical silvery white spots 



1868.] 7 




90 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



upon the fore wings ; a costal streak, three oblong apical spots, and three 

 triangular spots along the outer margin of the hind wings, all silvery white. 

 Expanse 2 '75 inches. 



Head, thorax and abdomen, above blackish brown, below the thorax is 

 spotted with white, but no yellow stripes as are in Jemima ; abdomen below 

 yellowish. Antennse blackish at base, orange brown beyond, darkening 

 towards the apex. 



The/emale does not dififer from the male, save in the more rounded wings, 

 and in intensity of coloration. 



Hab.—lnsa.ga.s\igA, New Granada. (Coll. Tryon Reakirt.) 



57. Mechanitis Fkanis, nov. sp. 



Very closely allied to Meek. Menapis, Hewits. 



Differs chiefly in the larger size of the fulvous basal area of the fore wings ; 

 in tlie invariable presence of a large rounded black spot, between the first and 

 second median veins ; and in the more common division of the black portion 

 of the hind wings into a central belt, and a terminal border. 



Underneath as in Menapis, with the above diflerences. 



Hab. — Insagasuga, New Granada. (Coll. Tryon Reakirt.) 



I can hardly believe this to be a local variety of Menapis ; both were cap- 

 tured at the same place, and time, and throughout a long series of specimens 

 I find the differences to remain constant. 



58. Pykkhopyga Bogotana, nov. sp. 



Upper surface black, brilliantly glossed with steel blue ; the posterior two- 

 thirds of the outer margin of the hind wings, is bordered with bright orange 

 brown, broadest towards the anal angle, gradually diminishing to the other 

 extreme point, and scalloped interiorly. 



Underneath the same, with perhaps less shining reflections. 



Body and legs glossy blue-black, with orange-brown palpi. Antennae 

 black. 



Expanse 2*25 inches. 



Z?a6.— Insagasuga, New Grenada. (Coll. Tryon Reakirt.) 



59. Pyegus alana, nov. sp. 



Upper surface white, faintly tinged with yellowish ; costa of primaries, and 

 a large apical patch, covering the outer two-fifths of the wing, dark brown ; 

 the latter, which is concaved interiorly, and traversed by darker brown 

 veins, presents a transverse, indistinct, white macular, narrow aubapical 

 band, frequently entirely obsolete. 



Secondaries with an irregular narrow brown border, from which brown 

 veins rise a short distance into the area of the wing. 



Fringe of primaries brown ; of secondaries, first narrowly white, bordered 

 externally with brown, forming two parallel lines around the whole outer 

 margins. 



Underneath chiefly as above, with the brown more diluted, and the white 

 subapical baud of tlie primaries, and the whole white surface of the secon- 

 daries, replaced with ochreous yellow ; the former consists of six distinct 

 spots, of which the two lower are the largest, and extend to the outer margin ; 

 the white basal area of the fore wings is more or less tinged with yellow. 



On tlie secondaries, the veins are all lined with black, and there are two 

 diffused brown patches ; one below the centre of the wing and towards the 

 abdominal margin, the other on the outer edge near its middle. 



Expanse 1'70 inches. 



Thorax and abdomen above black, clothed with whitish haira ; the latter, 

 below, yellow, with a double brown stripe ; head palpi, and antennae brown ; 

 a yellow collar above the first. 



Hab. — Insagasuga, New Granada. (Coll. Tryon Reakirt.) 



[Feb. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 91 



60. Heliconius Guarica, nov. sp. 



Upper surface dark brown, glossed with bluish black ; anterior wings crossed 

 by a broad central transverse scarlet band, abruptly terminating after the 

 first median veinlet, and not touching the outer margin ; posterior, immacu- 

 late. 



Underneath, the band becomes pale rosy white, edged only with dark pink ; 

 the costa of forewings, presents a short basal scarlet bar, that of the hind 

 wings a longer yellow one ; upon these are also five basal spots, one yellow, 

 surrounded by four scarlet ones. 



Body black, with some yellow stripes on thorax below and a yellow ventral 

 stripe ; some yellow spots on the collar ; first and second joints of palpi 

 yellow ; third black. Antennae black. 



Expanse 2*65 inches. 



Hab. — Insagasuga, New Granada. (Coll. Tryon Reakirt.) 



Closely allied to HI. Hydara, Hewits, but constantly diifers in the absence 

 of a scarlet spot on the upper side of the secondaries. 



In the same number (63) of his " Exotic Butterflies," he has redescribed 

 Cal/idryas Thauruma, Reakirt, as Call. Fiaduna ; his name must therefore be 

 regarded as a synonym. 



March Bd. 

 Mr. Vaux, Vice-President, in the Chair. 

 Twenty-three members present. 



March 10th. 

 The President, Dr. Hays, in the Chair. 

 Forty members present. 



The following papers were presented for publication : 



"A new species of Osnierus." By Thaddeus Norris. 



" Description of nine new species of Uniouidse, from Lake 

 Nicaragua, C. A." By Isaac Lea. 



" An examination of the Keptilia and Batrachia obtained by the 

 Williams College Expedition to Equador and the Upper Amazon, 

 with notes on other species." By Edw. D. Cope. 



A letter was read announcing the death of Sir David Brewster. 



The Publication Committee announced the issue of No. 4 of the 

 Proceedings for 1867. 



3farch 17 th. 



The President, Dr. Hays, in the Chair. 



Thirty-three members present. 



Mr. Benj. Smith Lyman made the following remarks on a bent 

 marble stone presented by Mr. Edward Shippen to the Academy. 



The bent gravestone of Dr. William Shippen, who died 11th July, 1808, 

 and of Alice his wife, who died 25th of March, 1817, was formerly in the 



1868.] 




92 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



burial ground on Arch street, fibove 5th. As it had to be remored on the 

 closing up of that ground, it was thought best to replace it by a new one, 

 and the bent stone was given to the Academy on the 15th of November, 

 1867. The stone is of white Pennsylvania marble and is 6 ft. 3i in. long, 

 by 3 ft. 1 in. wide and 2 in thick. It simply rested on six marble posts, 

 without being fastened to them, except imperfectly by mortar, and must have 

 bent merely from its own weight. The posts stood on separate brick foun- 

 dations under ground, but the near (northern) middle post of the picture 

 had sunk so as no longer to touch the slab, and the other middle post had 

 settled also. The space between the inner sides of the end posts, lengthwise 

 of the slab, was 4 ft. 9^ in. The stone is bent down in the middle an inch 

 and a half from a straight line drawn from the near right hand corner to the 

 far left hand corner (northwest and east) and half an inch from the line 

 drawn cornerwise the other way ; and lengthwise through the middle it is 

 bent an inch and a sixteenth from straiahtness. 



3Iarch 24th, 1868. 



The President, Dr. Hays, in the Chair. 



Forty-two members present. 



The following was presented for publication : 



"Sexual Law in Acer dasycarpum." By Thos. Meehan. 



Prof. Cope exhibited to the Academy several fragments of a large Enalio- 

 saurian, discovered by the Academy's correspondent at Fort Wallace, Kansas, 

 Dr. Theoph. H. Turner. Portions of tv?o vertebi-je brought east by Dr. Le Conte 

 from his geological survej^ of the Pacific Railroad route, had previously indi- 

 cated to the speaker the existence of an animal related to the Plesiosaurus, and 

 the recovery of the greater part of the reptile had confirmed this affinity. 



The remains consisted of over one hundred vertebriB, with numerous por- 

 tions of ribs, the greater part of the pelvic and scapular arches, with two long 

 bones somewhat like femora. Part of a muzzle, with teeth, belonged to the 

 same animal. 



The species represented a genus differing in important features from Plesio- 

 saurus and its near allies. These were the absence of diapophyses on the 

 caudal vertebrae, and the presence of inferiorly directed plate-like parapophy- 

 ses, which took the place of the usual chevron bones, in the same position ; 

 also in the presence of chevron-like bones on the inferior surfaces of the cervi- 

 cal vertebrae ; further in some details of the scapular and pelvic arches. The 

 diapophyses of the dorsal vertebras originated from the centrum, and not from 

 the neural arch. 



In generic features it was related to the Cimoliasaurus and Brimosaurus of 

 Leid)', so far as the latter are yet known. It differed from both of them in 

 lacking diapophyses on the lumbar vertebrte. 



The general form was dif!erent from Plesiosaurus in the enormous length of 

 the tail, and the relative]}- shorter cervical region. The total length of the ver- 

 tebral column sent was thirty-one feet ten inches, divided as follows: caudals 

 18 ft. 10 in., dorsals 9 ft. 8 in., cervicals 3 ft. 4 in. ; adding for missing cervi- 

 cals and cranium at least 2 ft. 6 in., we have a total of 34| feet. An interval 

 of three to four feet occurred between the cervicals and dorsals as they lay in 

 the cliff from which they were excavated, which if, as is probable, it was occu- 

 pied by vertebrae in the animal, would give a length of thirty-eight feet. The 

 caudal vertebrje had very compressed centra, and elevated neural and haemal 

 laminae, and were of unusually elongate form. Neural arches everywhere on 

 the columa co-ossified. All the vertebrse considerably more constricted me- 



[March, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 93 



dially than in Brimosaurus or Cimoliasaurus, and none except cervicals Avitli 

 such small antero- posterior diameter as the latter possess. 



The general characters of the species would be presented in a special 

 essay. 



He called it Elasmosaurus platyurus Cope, from the caudal lamina?, and 

 the great plate bones of the sternal and pelvic regions. It was a marine 

 saurian, whose progression was more largely accomplished by its tail than by 

 its paddles. 



The teeth and muzzle showed it to be an ally of Plesiosaurus. The former 

 were cylindric, implanted in very deep alveolse, and furnished with a very 

 small pulp cavity. The exposed surface closely and sharply striate to the nar- 

 rowly acuminate tip. 



The beds were argillaceous, with much gypsum ; the latter mineral coating 

 the bones. The age was cretaceous ; perhaps, according to Le Coute, the 

 upper middle. The matrix beneath the dorsal vertebras contained remains of 

 perhaps si.x species of fishes, several ctenoid, among them a known Enchodus, 

 and a Sphyraaia, to be called Sph. c a r i n a t a Cope. 



The complete and mounted skeleton of the fossil Irish Elk, now 

 in the Museum, was presented to the Academy by Mr. J. A.Wright. 



On motion the Academy tendered to Mr. Wright a vote of thanks 

 for his magnificent donation. 



March cilst. 

 The President, Dr. Hays, in the Chair. 

 •.. Thirty members present. 



The deaths of Mr. Thos. Earp, and Mr. C. F. Hagedorn, were an- 

 nounced. 



On leave being granted, the following paper was presented for 

 publication : 



" On a new mineral in Cryolite, Ivigtite." By Theo. D. Eand. 



The following gentlemen were elected Members : 



Dr. Thomas B. Reed and Mr. Richard Peltz. 



The following were elected Correspondents : 



Dr. Fred'k Stoliska, of Calcutta, Maj. Geo. Clendon, Jr., of 

 Glenn's Falls, N. Y., and Mr. R. H. Stretch, of San Francisco, Cal. 



On favorable report of the Committees, the following papers 

 were ordered to be published : 



Kemarks on the New Species of OSMERUS (0. Sergeanti.) 

 BY TIIADDEUS NORRIS. 



At a meeting of the Academy of Natural Sciences, March 2G, 1801, the 

 writer presented "Remarks on a new species of Osmerus taken in the Schuyl- 

 kill below Fairmount dam," describing its specific characteristics as com- 

 pared with those of the Northern Smelt, 0. viridiscctis, also naming other 

 rivers besides the Schuylkill in which it is found. 



Although I was then well convinced of the difference between the two, 

 those who composed the committee on Ichthyology could not admit sufficient 

 peculiarity in this to constitute it a new species ; I therefore suppressed the 

 specific name given above, which I now renew : having no less authority than 



1868.] 




94 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



that of Professor Agas«iz, who has examined and compared the one with the 

 other. I would add that my conjectures as to the new species being found 

 at the terminus of the tide in the tributaries of the Delaware river have 

 proved correct ; as I have since ascertained that it is taken in March in the 

 Brandywine below the dam at the head of tide, as well as at, the foot of the 

 rapid water at Trenton, appearing for a short time before spawning and 

 apparently only for that purpose. 



My object in this communication is to establish this as a distinct fish and 

 give it a specific appellation, as well as to settle any question of priority of 

 description which may hereafter arise. 



I have presented this evening a small vial which holds the contents of the 

 stomach of a northern smelt, O. viridiscms, as being suggestive of the vast 

 amount of fish food accessible to marine species in winter as well as in 

 summer. The vial contains three shrimps, one of the small fry of some other 

 fish, and a half dozen fish ova not quite as large as those of our brook trout. 

 The ova have made no profiress in the process of incubation, from which I 

 infer that they were seized by the Osmerus as soon as they were ejected, or 

 not long after they were deposited by the parent fish. In observing the 

 habits of both species above referred to, I have found them to go to the head 

 of tide, but no further, for the purpose of spawning. This occurs as soon as 

 the rivers are free from ice in the spring, when the nortberu smelt is taken 

 in such numbers from the Gulf of St. Lawrence as sometimes to be used as 

 manure. 



Description of Nine Species of UNIONID.S from Lake Nicaragua, Central 



America. 



BY ISAAC LEA. 



In the "Proceedings of the Acad, of Nat. Sci.," April, 1856, I described a 

 new species of Triqueta [Hi/ria Lam.), which I called lanceolata. It was made 

 from a single valve in a collection from China. In the diagnosis made in the 

 Proceedings it was not mentioned that this valve was somewhat twisted, being 

 fearful that the curved condition arose from accidental circumstances, and 

 not from a normal condition like Area torfiosa, Lin. Subsequently, in the 

 " Journal of the Academy," vol. iii, and in " Observations on the Genus Unio," 

 vol. vi, I published a full account of this peculiarly interesting species, having 

 received perfect specimens, one of which was well figured. In this paper I 

 thought that, as the original name of lanceolata, made from a single imperfect 

 valve, did not aj)ply to the perfect shell, science would be subserved by a de- 

 scriptive name. I proposed to call it contorto, and redescribed it under that name 

 with full remarks and observations. At that time it was the only member of the 

 family Unionidx, which was known not to be equivalve. Subsequently, in de- 

 scribing a species of Spafha, under the name of Natalensis, I mentioned that it 

 was "slightly inequivalve." "Journal Acad. Nat. Sci.," vol. vi, aud in "Ob- 

 servations on the Genus Unio," vol. xi. 



In 1865 I published in the " Proceedings of the Academy" the diagnosis of a 

 new Unio from China, which is inequivalve ?iX\^ twisted. This I named tortuoms. 

 The full description and figure, with remarks, is in a paper which I have pre- 

 pared for the Journal of the Academy. These constitute all the inequivalve 

 species of the family which I have seen until recently. 



The collection made by the late Mr. Thomas Bridges, botanist, who, during 

 his travels in Central America, visited Lake Nicaragua, has been kindly placed 

 in my possession, part by Col. E. Jewett, and part by Mr. W. M. Gabb, Paheon- 

 tologist of the California Geological Survey. Very much to my surprise and 

 satisfaction I found that several species of Unio and Anodonta had this 

 inequivalve character. 



It may be here remarked that there seems to be a predisposition, in the 

 Unionidae of Cential America, to this very unusual character in the Unionidne, 



[March , 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 95 



while in Mexico, United States and Canada, where so many species have been 

 described, there has not been a single one observed. These observations and 

 the followincr list will, I hope, induce more attention to the investigation, by 

 students of Fresh-water Molluscs, of this interesting branch of inquiry. 



List of inequivalve Unionidx. 

 Triquetra contorta, China. Unio encarpus. Central America. 



Spatha Nataleiisis. Africa. Unio Nicaraguensis, Central America. 



Unio tortuosus, China. Anodonta ina^quivalva. Cent. Amer. 



Unio Newcombianus, Cent. America. Anodonta Granadensis, Cent. Amer. 

 Unio Gabbianus, Central America. Anodonta leuticularis. Cent. Amer. 



Unio Nicaraguensis. — Testa sulcata, trjanguliiri, comprcssa. alkjuanto inse- 

 quivalva, inaquilaterali, postice obtuse angulata, anlice oblique truncata ; 

 valvulis crassiusculis ; natibus promLnentibus, subatlutis; ei)icH>nnide olivacea, 

 crebris sulcatis indutis, eradiata ; dentibus cardinalibus erectis, compressis, 

 crenulatis et in valvulo dextro tripartitibus; lateralibus brevious fonicatisque ; 

 margarita argentea et iridescente. 



Habitat. — Lake Nicaragua, Central America. Mr W. M. Gabb. 



Unio Granadensis. — Testa sulcata, elliptica, subinflata, iniequilaterali, pos- 

 tice subangulari, antice rotundata ; valvulis crassiusculis, antice crassioribus ; 

 natibus subprominentibus ; epidermide tenebroso-fusca, nigricanti, eradiata ; 

 dentibus cardinalibus parviusculis, compressis, erectis crenulatisque ; marga- 

 rita alba et iridescente. 



Hab. — Lake Nicaragua, Cent. Amer. Col. E. Jewett and Mr. W. M. Gabb. 



Unio encarpus. — Testa sulcata, subtriangulari, subinflata, aliquanto jnfpjui- 

 valva, inasquilaterali, postice obtuse angulata, antice rotundata; valvulis sub- 

 crassis, antice crassioribus ; natibus prominentibus ; epidermide tenebroso- 

 olivacea, encarpiformi, eradiata; dentibus cardinalibus compressis, erectis, 

 crenulatis, in valvulo dextro subtripartitibus ; lateralibus obliquis rectisque ; 

 margarita albida et iridescente. 



Hub. — Lake Nicaragua. Mr. W. M. Gabb. 



Unio Gabbianus — Testa sulcata, triangulata, subinflata, aliquanto imequi- 

 valva, ina^quilaterali, postice triangulari, anlice oblique truncata ; valvulis 

 crassiusculis, antice aliquanto crassioribus ; natibus prominentibus, ad apices 

 retusis ; epidermide tenebroso-olivacea, obsolete radiata ; dentibus cardinali- 

 bus erectis, compressis et valde crenulatis ; lateralibus curtis, obliquis striatis- 

 que ; margarita argentea et iridescente. 



Hab. — Lake Nicaragua, Cent. Amer. Col. E. Jewett and Mr. W. M. Gabb. 



Anodonta Buidgesii. — Testa Itevi, oblonga, inflata, iniequilaterali, antice et 

 postice rotundata; valvulis pertenuibus : natibus prominulis ; epidermide 

 laevissima, micanti, olivacea, obsolete radiata ; margarita elegantissime iri- 

 descente. 



Hab. — Lake Nicaragua, Cent. Amer. Mr. Thomas Bridges. 



Anodonta in.equivalva. — Testa Isevi, obovata, compressa, inpequivnh-a, in- 

 ffiquilaterali, antice et postice rotundata; valvulis subtenuibus; natibus sub- 

 prominentibus ; epidermide vel luteo-viridi vel tenebroso-viridi, obsolete ra- 

 diata ; margarita c:eruleo-alba et valde iridescente. 



Hab. — Lake Nicaragua, Cent. Amer. Mr. W. M. Gabb. 



Anodonta Jewettiana. — Testa hievi, suboblonga, valde inflata, innequilater- 

 ali, postice rotundata, antice oblique rotundata; valvulis tenuibus ; natibus 

 prominentibus, inflatis ; epidermide olivacea, transverse striata fere sulcata, 

 obsolete radiata ; margarita argentea et valde iridescente. 



Hab. — Lake Nicaragua, Cent. Amer. Col. E. Jewett. 



Anodonta lbnticularis. — Testa Levi, subrotunda, compressa, inxqaicalva^ 

 1868.] 




96 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



in;iequilaterali, antice et postice rotundata ; valvulis subtenuibns ; natibus 

 ])rominulis ; epiilerniide transverse striata, tenebroso-viridi, redundater radi- 

 ata ; margarita c;Bruleo-alba et valde iridescente. 



Hib. — Lake Nicaragua, Cent. Amer. Mr. W. M. Gabb. 



Anodonta Granadensis. — Testa la?vi, elliptica, subinflata, inpeqiiivalva, ina- 

 ([uilaterali, postice obtuse angulata, antice rotunda ; valvulis subtenuibus ; 

 natibus prominulis ; epidermide vel lutea vel viridi-radiata ; margarita cseru- 

 leo-alba et valde iridescente. 



Ilab. — Lake Nicaragua, Cent. Amer. Col. E. Jcwctt. 



An Examination of the REPTILIA and BATRACHIA obtained by the Orton 

 Expedition to Equador and the Upper Amazon, with notes on other Species. 



BY E. D. COPE. 



The expedition for purposes of scientitic exploi'ation, to which the present 

 paper relates, was undertaken during the autumn and winter of 1867 — 8, 

 under the auspices of the Smithsonian Institution. Prof. James Orton, of 

 Williams College, Massachusetts, directed the expedition, which was composed 

 mainly of students of the same institution. This enterprise, particularly 

 worthy of a popular institution of learning of the grade and position which 

 an American College ought to occupy, has been attended with success in many 

 departments of natural and physical sciences. In the present department, 

 valuable in furnishing a reliable key to the history of the mode of creation 

 and distribution of animal life, a considerable amount of material has been 

 collected, which is reviewed summarily in the following pages. 



The party divided, a portion ascending the Orinoco River to meet the other 

 portion in Eastern Equador. The course of the latter was as follows, as I am 

 informed hy Prof. Orton : 



They first touched the continent at Payta,Peru, and afterwards at Guayaquil ; 

 then proceeded inland over the Andes to Quito — collecting in the valley about 

 three months ; thence via Pafallacta (on the east slope of the eastern Cordillera) 

 and Archiaona (the largest town in the Oriental part of Equador,) to Napo on 

 the River Napo ; thence by canoe down the Napo to the Maranon and Amazons. 



They collected Reptiles chiefly from (luayaquil, PaRatanga (on the west 

 slope of the western Cordillera south of Chimborazo) ; Ambato (in Valley of 

 Quito); Avestern slope of the volcano Antisana, 13000 ft. above sea (a small 

 black frog:) Archiaona — in the depths of the Napo forest (lizards chiefly;) 

 Santa Rosa on the Napo (lizards chiefly ;) Pebas, Peru, on the Maranon — 2200 

 miles from the Atlantic (snakes chiefly,) and Tabatinga on the Brazilian 

 frontier, (snakes chiefly'.) 



CROCODILIA. 



Crocodilus AMERICANOS Liuu. C. ciculus Cuv. 

 From Guayaquil. 



TESTUDINATA. 



Testudo elephantopcs. Harlan. 



From Guayaquil, identical with sp. from the Gallapagos Islands. This 

 species presents the broad posterior vertebral shield of the American T. tabu- 

 la t a and p o 1 y p h e m u s. 



Chelydra serpentina Linn. Schweigger. 



One sp. from Guayaquil, identical with nearctic specimens. This species 

 furnishes a case of distribution unparalleled among reptiles, ranging as it does 

 from the cold regions of Canada to the torrid region of Equador. Peters has 

 already noticed Guayaquil as its most southern habitat, via. Mouatsber., Berlin 

 Ac. 1862, p. 627. 



[March, 




NATURAL SCIEXCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 97 



SAURIA. 



NYC TIS AURA. 



PiiYLLODACTYLus REissii Petcrs, Monatsbericlite, Preuss. Ac. Wiss. 1802, 62G. 

 Several specimens of this liandsome species from near Guayaquil. 



GoNioDACTYLUs CAUDiscuTATUS Giinther. Proc. Zool. Soc. Lond. 18 , p. 

 From near Guayaquil. 



GoNioDACTYLuS FERRUGiNEUS Copc. Gotiatodes ferr. Cope, Pi'oc. A. N. Sci. 



Phila. 1863, 102. 



From the Napo and Maranon. 



A Central American species of this genus is G. fuscus [Stenodaclylus 

 Hallowell. (Ji/mnodactyhis scajn/Iati/f: Dumeril. The G. tenuis of Hallowell is 

 a Eublepharis Gray, from the Philippine Is.) G. gillii Cope, (1. c. 18G3, 

 102) is G. vittatus Licht. von Martens Nomeucl. Mus. Berlin. Was the 

 latter ever properly published ? 



Thecadactylus rapicadda Gray, Houttouyn. 



From the Xapo and Maranon. Identical with specimens from Yucatan and 

 St. Thomas, W. I. 



riEURODONTA. 

 Igu.ana tdbercdlata Laur. 



One sp. (No. G645) from Napo or Upper Maranon. 

 Basiliscus mitratus Dum6ril. Ptmosaura seemannii, Gray. 



Near Guaj-aquil. 

 Hypsiisates agamoides Weigmann. 



Napo and Maranon. 

 LiocEPHALus iRiDESCENS Giinther, Proc. Zool. Soc. Lond. 1859, icon optima ! 



Specimens from the Plateau of tlic Andes, near Quito, No. 6710, and from 

 near Guayaquil. 

 MiCROLOPHCs PERUviANus, Girard. 



Paita, Peru. 



Anohs viridiaeneus Peters, Monatsberichte Preuss. Ac. Wiss. Berlin, 1863, 



147, 



From Napo or Upper Maranon. 

 Anolis ortonii Cope, sp. nov. 



Of the same group as the last, that is, with smooth abdominal scales, and 

 the median series of caudal scales not larger than the lateral ; the tail is, 

 however, only partially preserved, and as it is somewhat compressed the char- 

 acter of the vertebral scales may have been different in tlie lost portion. 



Muzzle convex, wider than long, (measuring at anterior angle orbit,) covered 

 with scales of different sizes. Occiput small, separated by several rows from 

 superciliaries. Scales between tlie facial rugaj hexagonal, smooth, in four 

 longitudinal rows, a little smaller than the plates of the ruga which extend to 

 the central row. Dorsal and lateral scales granular, nearly equal, and smaller 

 than the rounded ventrals. Brachial scales a little larger, weakly keeled, anti- 

 brachials much larger, keeled. Labials 8 — 8, the two posterior very small ; 

 loreal rows six. Frontal cavity distinct ; superciliaries separated by one row 

 scales. Sides of muzzle M'ith longitudinal, smaller, weakly keeled scales. 

 Auricular meatus two-fifths length eye fissure. Infralabials longitudinal 

 smooth, in two or three rows. Supraorbital disc of some seven broad smooth 

 plates, separated from superciliaries by a row of granular scales. Gular fan 

 large. 



When the limbs are extended the end of the metacarpal reaches end of 

 muzzle, and the longest toe nearly reaches the orbit. The digital dilatations 

 are well developed. 



Top of head, nape, a rather narrow dorsal region and upper surfaces of 

 limbs Ijlackish coppery ; sides and below golden, fan deep saffron yellow. 



1868.] 




98 PEOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Lines. 



Length from end of muzzle to vent 216 



" " " " axilla 9-1 



" " " " ear 5-5 



Greatest width head 36 



From Nape or Upper Maranon. 



This handsome lizard differs from A. veridiaeneus Pet. in the shorter 

 muzzle with larger plates and fewer large labials, and in the shorter limbs, as 

 well as in coloration. I take pleasure in dedicating this species to Prof. Jas. 

 Orton, of Williams College, to whom Science is indebted for this and other 

 species of much interest included in the present essay. 



DiPLOGLOssus MONOTROPis Wcigmaun, Peters. Camilia jamaiceiisis Gray, Catal. 



Liz. Brit. Mus. 118. 



This large scink is not an inhabitant of Jamaica, as given by Dr. Gray, but 

 of Equador, as given by Prof. Peters in Mus. Berlin. I cannot think it right 

 that the species should bear the name erroneously given, and accordingly 

 adopt Weigmann's as above. 



One sp. (No. 669 1) from Guayaquil. 



Centropyx pelviceps Cope, sp. nov. 



This species bears much resemblance in structure and coloration to the 

 Monoplocus d o rsa 1 i s Giinther, and would seem to be a mimetic represen- 

 tative in an allied genus. The presence of femoral pores in both sexes sepa- 

 rates it generically, and the three additional series of abdominal plates is a 

 marked specific feature. 



Dorsal scales small, hexagonal, keeled, graduating into the smaller lateral ; 

 abdominals large, keeled and mucronate. in fourteen rows; preanals smooth, of 

 equal size (except a marginal row of small ones) in three oblique series. 

 Spurs large, appressed, two on each side. Caudal scales large, strongly keeled. 

 Large scales on top of foot, tibia below, femur in front and below, fore arm 

 above, humerus above and behind. Collar of a row of large mucronate scales, 

 with three smaller series anterior. Middle gular region with scales little larger 

 than the lateral. Nineteen pores on each femur. 



The head slightly compressed, elevated, the superciliary ridges bounding a 

 median concavity and continued back into a strong ridge which follows the 

 margin of the occipital plates and encloses the plates of the parietal region in 

 a deep basin. This margin is cordate behind. In younger specimens this 

 elevation is not prominent, and is entirely absent from specimens of length of 

 (head and bod}') two inches and less. Rostral shield nearly prolonged back 

 to internasal ; the latter broad as long, with straight lateral margins. Fronto- 

 nasals in extensive contact. Frontal longer than broad, undivided, angulate 

 before and behind. Frontoparietals elongate ; interparietal wider than parie- 

 tals, surrounded by the latter and occipitals, which form a regular disc, emar- 

 ginate behind and extending nearly to the zj-gomatic angles. Nuchal scales 

 granular. Nostril on naso-frenal suture. Two frenals, the anterior much the 

 larger, the posterior not extending above the three or more small preoculars. 

 Suboculars two or (divided) three. Superior labials six, inferior five. A 

 symphyseal, a postmental, and on each side three large and two small infrala- 

 bials, the anterior pair separated by a row of granules. Molar teeth tricuspid, 

 the lateral cusps nearly as long as the median, but much narrower. Premaxil- 

 laries eight. Toes long, claws curved ; outer toe markedly longer than inner. 



Color in spirits bluish green, with a pale dorsal band from the nape to 

 beyond the middle of the back ; this is bounded on each side by a heavy black 

 band of the same length, which sends in short branches nearly meeting simi- 

 lar ones from the other. In younger specimens the light dorsal band is brighter 

 and extends from the tip of the muzzle ; it is more frequently crossed by 

 black bars. In these short black bars descend on the sides, and cross the 

 upper surface of the tail. Yellowish olive below in all. 



[March, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 99 



In. Lin. 



Totallen^th of adult 14 6 



Length to vent 4 7 



" axilla . 2 1 



" to most posterior part of head shield 1 3 



" to anterior margin orbit V 



Width at prefrontal angle 4.5 



" at nostrils , 2-5 



" at angles mandibles... 9'5 



Length fore limb 1 10-5 



" hand 8-75 



" hind limb 3 7.1 



" tibia 1 1-5 



" foot 10- 



Specimens of this species (No. GG38) from the Napo or Upper Amazon of 

 Equador. 



Ameiva petersii Cope, sp. nov. 



Ventral plates in ten series ; heel without horny tubercles. Two series of 

 plates on under surface of tibia ; frontal plate undivided, four supraorbitals. 

 Inner toe longer than outer, both short. Brachial shields in three rows just 

 continuous with the two series of antebrachials. Two pairs of parietal plates. 

 Gular scales considerably larger on the middle of the posterior border ; median 

 scales of posterior fold larger than marginal. Preanal ])lates scale-like, small, 

 two larger in the centre. Dorsal scales minute, keeled ; interparietal plate 

 wider than parietal, frontal narrowed behind ; prefrontals well in contact ; one 

 large loreal. Postmental plate longer than wide, infralabials five continuous 

 and three pairs posterior oblique. Numerous small plates b hind the parietals ; 

 caudal plates keeled. 



Color bright olive, with a narrow yellow band from below orbit to groin, 

 banded above by a broad black band, which is marked by several white dots 

 behind the scapular region, and is bounded above in front by a pale green line 

 to orbit. A narrow dark band from below orbit to groin below the yellow. 

 Sides blnckish and pale s|)otted. The only specimen being young, the colora- 

 tion of the adult is probablj' nearly uniform green. 



In. Lin. Lin. 



Total length 4 10-5 Length fore limb 8 6 



Length head and body 19 " hind limb 17 



" to edge parietal plates 6 " foot 9-5 



" " orbit 2-5 



No. , from the Napo or MaraSon. 



The species is nearest A. la e ta Cope, but is quite different in the preanal 

 and parietal plates and gular scales. It is dedicated to Prof. Wilhelra Peters, 

 of the Friederich Wilhelm's University of Berlin, who has added much to Her- 

 petology. 



Teids teguexim Gray. Tupinamhis Daud. 

 One sp. (G644) from Napo or Upper Amazon. 



ECSPONDYLUS STRANGITLATUS Cope, Sp. nOV. 



This species is very distinct from others described, in the alternation of the 

 dorsal transverse series of scales, the minuteness of those of the sides, nape 

 and gular region, and in the constriction of the neck. 



The general form is slender, the body not depressed, the tail of moderate 

 length and considerably compressed. Neck much compressed, head elevated, 

 flat above, muzzle short, compressed Rostral truncate behind, internasal sub- 

 quadrate, broad as long, frontonasals longer than broad. Frontal narrower, 

 frontoparietals elongate ; interparietal longer than broad, convex lieliind and 

 projecting beyond parietals. Parietals one pair, in contact with supraorbitals, 

 broader than long. Four well marked supraorbitals, without surrounding 

 granules; five superciliary plates, posterior not smaller. Two loreals, the 



1868.] 




100 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



posterior below the other and continuous with the suborbital plates. The 

 latter small, six, median jjair smaller, all separated from orbit by granules. 

 Temporal region with some flat j)lates, side of head granular, no auricular 

 plates. Meatus auditorius large. Six upper, six lower labials ; postgenial 

 large; four large infralabials, two pairs in contact. Gular scales small, larger 

 near rami and collar. Latter distinct, but not free, extending in front of ax- 

 illfE. Abdominal plates in eight rows, larger than dorsal scales, subquadrate, 

 continuous by two rows with preanals ; latter four, posterior pair much larger. 

 Scales of tail smooth below, very weakly keeled above. Dorsal scales sepa- 

 rated by a wide lateral granular region, one row of the former resolving itself 

 into two of the latter. 



The dorsal scales are in transverse series, which alternate with each other 

 on the median line. They are weakly keeled, longer than broad, and rectan- 

 gular : they grow smaller on the interscapular region, and disappear shortly in 

 advance of it. Thirty rows between axilla and groin; 10 — 12 longitudinal. 



Digits all well clawed, and with one row of scales below ; longest finger -TS 

 distance to groin when extended ; longest toe to the gular fold in like manner. 

 Anteljrachium plated above and below, brachium above and behind. Femur 

 plated in front onl}', tibia below only. Outer toe nearly as long as second, 

 inner short. 



Color (in S]iirits) above olivaceous ; sides bluish, with a few very pale dots, 

 hind face of femur similar; under surface head and body light yellow. 



In. Lin. 



Total length 7 



Length to vent 2 5-5 



" to collar. 10-5 



" to end of interparietal plate 6 



" to eye fissure 2 5 



" of forelimb 10-4 



" of hind limb 1 3 



" " foot 7T5 



Width head at angle mandible 4-5 



" " prefrontal bones 2-5 



" " nostrils 1-5 



I take the present opportuniry of correcting a lapsus calami in a former re- 

 view of tlie higher groups of the Reptilia Squamata, where I included the Ec- 

 pleopodida^ under the head of families with the temporal fossa with bony roof. 

 This roof is really dermal onlj- as in the Ameivie, as already mentioned by 

 Peters. 



Mabuia cepedei Gray, Cope, Proc. A. N. Sci. Phila. 1862, 186. 



One sp. (6647) from Napo or Upper Maranon. 

 Ophiognomon trisanalb Cope, gen. et sp. nov. 



Fam. Chalcididic. Nostril on the suture between the first labial and supra- 

 nasal. Head shields above five, viz., two supranasals, one frontal and two oc- 

 cipitals. Limbs minute, four, without digits. Scales smooth, hexagonal, in 

 annuli, those behind vent with a minute pore each. A short longitudinal fold 

 Ijehind axilla. No collar. 



This genus is near Chalcis, but differs in the position of the nostril and cha- 

 racter of the head shields. The latter above are much like those of some 

 Mexican genera of Calamarian serpents, especially Sympholis Cope — name 

 from n<j)/f, serpent, and riiai/zov, a sign. 



Char, specif. Muzzle obtuse, slightly projecting, rostral plate visible from 

 above. Supranasals extensively in contact with each other and the first and 

 second ujjper labials. Frontal large, hexagonal, posterior angle prolonged ; 

 parietals larger, obliquely hexagonal, truncate behind. Two superciliaries ; 

 four superior labials, posterior largest, truncate behind; temporals three on 

 each side, anterior large. Two very small suborbitals, one minute preocular 

 and a square loreal. Symphyseal narrow, inferior labials three, posterior lan- 

 ceolate. Geneial rhombic, large ; infralabials three on each side, anterior pair 



[March, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 101 



extensively in contact, tlie posterior smaller and separated from temporals by 

 four narrow plates, and from each other by fonr plates. The median pair of 

 the latter are the larger and join the anterior pair of infralabials. A groove 

 surrounds the throat behind the jaws, which is succeeded by five annuli of 

 equal ovate scales. These are followed by a cross series of six more elongate, 

 which precede a pair of large sternal plates extending between fore limbs. 

 Abdominal scales differeat from the dorsal, truncate, not hexagonal, in six 

 series. Dorsals in fourteen longitudinal, thiity-seven transverse rows between 

 nxilla and groin. Three elongate parallel anal plates ; a series of seven small 

 quadrate scales behind vent, each with a pore in the centre. Caudal scales 

 below, angulate like dorsal. 



Hind limbs style-like, minute, half as long as anal plates. Fore limbs as 

 long as three anterior labials, consisting of humerus, forearm and carpus, but 

 no digits ; three termiual tubercles are probably metacarpal. Tail very long, 

 subquadrate in section; the portion preserved, though nearly as long as the 

 body, presents no diminution of diameter ; the general form is probably snake- 

 like, as in Ophiosaurus. 



lu. Lin. 



Length head to rictus oris 2-25 



" " to gular fold 3-75 



" " to axilla G-5 



" " to groin 2 5 



" " to vent 2 6 25 



\Yidth head at angle mandible 2 



Color: below brown; sides with a brown blackish band, which is bounded 

 above by a rather narrow yellow band which commences on the superciliary 

 region. Dorsal region between the latter yellowish gray, bounded exteriorly 

 by a distinct blackish line, and divided medially by an indistinct blackish line. 

 The colors of the tail are similar. Head brownish, paler below. 



This species presents several points of resemblance to the Chalcides d o r- 

 bignyi Dum. Bibr. The specific differences, apart from the generic, may be 

 readily observed on comparing the descriptions. This is no doubt a sluggish 

 animal, and moves ranch in the manner of a snake. It is the most snake-like 

 of the Chalcididffi, approacliing somewhat the Amphisba^nia. 

 One spec, No. 6G37, from the Napo or Upper MaraQon. 



AMPHISBJENIA. 



Amphisb.kxa fcliginosa Linn. A. amcricana Sclireber, Gray. 

 Napo and Marauon. 



OPHIDIA. 

 SCOL ECOPHIDIA. 

 Typhlops reticclatus Linn. 

 Napo and Maranon. 



A&INEA. 

 Trachyboa gularis Peters, Monatsberichte Acad. Berlin, 18 , p. Emj'jrus^ 

 Jan. 



The character of the rostral shield appears to separate this genus from Eny- 

 grus, as Peters observes; the cranium is quite similar to that of Ungualia Gray. 

 From Guayaquil (No. 6G83.) 



Boa constrictor Linn. 



The loreal plate larger than the preocular ; two rows scales between orbit 

 and labials. No vertical or loreal brown band. 



Guaj^aquil. 



XiPHOsoMA HORTCLANUM Waglfcr. Boa Linn. 

 From Napo or Upper Amazon. (6679.) 



NiNiA ATRATA Cope. Coluher almtiis Hallowell, Strcpto2)horus drozii Dum. Bibr. 

 Elevated valley of Quito. 



1868. 




102 "PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Rhabdosoma microrhynchum Cope, sp. nov. 



Seventeen series of scales ; supralabials seven, the first very small, the third 

 and fourth entering the orbit. Prenasal larger, very nearly reaching lip. Pre- 

 frontals very small, equal postnasal, cue-sixth the size of postfroutals. Latter 

 longer than broad. Rostral contracted above by approach of prenasals. Lo- 

 real very long. No preocular, on one side two, on the other one postocular. 

 Last upper labial longer than high. Urst pair of labials united; two pair only 

 in contact with genials. Frontal subtriangular ; occipitals elongate. Tempo- 

 rals 1 — 2. Total length 4 in. 7-5 lin. ; tail 8 lin. 



Coloration like that of a Tantilla. Above dark brown, beneath pale brown, 

 with a faint line along the margins of the gastrosteges. Top of head blackish, 

 brown behind ; a partially complete yellow collar, which widens at the angle 

 of the jaws. A deep brown band from eye to angle of mouth ; upper labials 

 yellow brown edged. 



Tail slender acute. 



ISo. G6'J3, from Guayaquil. Nearest the R. b a d i u m D. B. 

 Tantilla melanocephala. Calamaria Schl., Homalocranimn D. B. 



Two specimens, the longest measuring 17 inches. In both the postfrontals 

 and labials are in contact, as in our other specimens, and as given in a synop- 

 sis of the genus (Proc. Acad. 18G1, 74,) and not separated by postnasal and 

 preocular in contact, as given in Jan's Jconographie. ^ 



From the valley of Quito. 



Opheomohphcs typhlhs Cope, Proc. A. N. Sc. 1862. Coluber ci Xenodon typhlus 



auctorum. 



From Maranon or Napo. 

 Opheomorphus alticolus Cope, spec. nov. 



Scales in seventeen rows, all rather broad. General form typical, head dis- 

 tinct, plane. Rostral plate flat, very broad, advancing by its whole posterior 

 convex margin on the internasals. Latter broader than long. Frontal with 

 straight, nearly parallel sides, not encroaching on the superciliaries in front; 

 front margin not quite equilateral. Occipitals a little narrowed and divaricate 

 behind. Nasals narrow, postnasal longer than high ; loreal very small, quad- 

 rate, on one side confluent with postnasal, and not encroaching on the single 

 preocular. The latter is therefore wide ; it just appears on the upper plane. 

 One large postocular, the place of a small inferior is occupied by the angle of 

 the large sixth upper labial. 



Superior labials eight, seventh higher than long, fourth and fifth and scarce- 

 ly the third entering orbit. Temporals ^, the anterior only enlarged. In- 

 ferior labials ten, six in contact with the genials ; the pairs of the latter about 

 equal. 



Total length 24 in. 6 lin. ; length of tail 5 in. 2 lin. ; of gape of mouth 9 lin. 



Above green ; lower surfaces with lips, and lower part of rostral plate, yel- 

 low, separated from nostril to rictus oris from the green by a black band. A 

 black line commences about the length of the tail in advance of the vent, on 

 the suture of the third and fourth rows of scales, and extends to the end of the 

 tail on each side. 



From the elevated valley of Quito. No. 



Since its establishment by the author, in 1862, this genus has received 

 several additions. The species known are as follows : 



0. cobella L. 0. breviceps Cope. 0. doliatus Neuwied. 0. 

 m e r r e m i i Neuwied. 0. alticolus Cope. O. typhlus Linn. 0. vi- 

 ridis {Liophis viridis Giinther, Ann. Mag. N. H. 1862). 0. dorsal is Peters, 

 {Liophisd., Monatsberichte Ac. Wiss. Preuss. 1863, 283). 

 Liophis regin^ Linn., Wagler. Coronella Schl. 



From Napo and Amazon. 

 Liophis almadensis. Notrix a/marfa Wagl. Liophis iv a gleri Sa.n. 



The adult; the specimen figured by Wagler and Spix appears to be young. 



Napo and Maranon. 



[March, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 103 



LloPHis PYGM^EUs Cope, sp.fnov, 



Tbis species is much the smallest of its genus; in size and appearance it is 

 like a burrowing snake of the Calamarinae, but its dentition, squamation, 

 pores, and even style of coloration, are those of this genus. It is undoubtedly 

 adult or nearly so. 



Head slightly distinct, ovate, narrowed in front, muzzle slightly prominent. 

 Rostral plate much broader than long, just visible from above. Internasals 

 broader than long. Frontal large, elongate, longer than muzzle in advance of 

 it, sides straight; superciliaries rather narrow. Occipitals elongate, including 

 a notch behind, each bounded by two large teni[)orald and Ij small scales. 

 Postnasal lower than prenasal, loreal still lower, subquadrate encroaching on 

 the preocular. Latter scarcely visible from above. Fostocnlars two, inferior 

 half superior, both in contact With temporal. Upper temporal bounded by 

 three scales, anterior larger, joining last labial. Superior labials seven, third 

 and fourth entering orbit, sixth largest. Inferior labials eight, five in contact 

 with genials. Latter, pairs equal. 



Scales in seventeen rows, uniporous, those of the first larger. 



Total length 7 in. 2 1. ; tail 1 in. 1-5 lin. ; that is 6'3 in the whole. Thus 

 this portion is shorter than in the genus generally ; it is quite stout. Gastro- 

 steges 12'8, anal 1 | 1, urosteges 31. 



Above deep olive, leaden on the sides and the ends of the scuta. Below 

 uniform yellow. A black line from orbit to anterior lower angle of last labial. 

 A broad black collar which encroaches on the occipitals, which is directed 

 backwards and does not reach the gastrosteges. Continuous with the ex- 

 tremity of this, on the second, third and fourth rows of scales is a series of 

 small black spots se[)arated by intervals of from three to two rows ; near the 

 middle of the length these join and form a black band, which extends to the 

 end of the tail. The median dorsal region becomes darker, and on the pos- 

 terior fourth forms an indistinct band. Where the epidermis is lost and the 

 skin is stretched the scales are white-edged. Top of head darker brown than 

 sides. Lips not margined. 



One specimen, 6,668, from Napo or neighboring pt. of Maranon. 



Dromicus LATEKISTRIGA? Z(o/?/»« /(/<(Ti3/r/^a Berthold, Jau's Icouographie des 



Ophidiens. 



The individuals in the collection differ from Jan's figure in a less distinct 

 lateral stripe, and presence of occipital cross-band. It is not probably distinct. 

 A description is, however, added : 



Body cylindric, head flat, muzzle short. Scales in seventeen rows. Supe- 

 rior labials eight, fourth and fifth margining orbit, second to sixth inclusive, 

 higher than long. Loreal higher than long; nasals nearly equal ; one large, 

 one small inferior preocular ; the superior sometimes divided. Postoculars 

 two, both in contact with the only elongate temporal. The latter is followed 

 by two rhombic temporals, the first one above the seventh and eighth labials ; 

 and two scales on margin of occipital. Occipitals narrowed behind, as long 

 as width between outer margins of superciliaries behind. Frontal, anterior 

 and superciliary borders equal ; prefrontals broader than long, rostral scarcely 

 visible from above, much broader than high. Length of muzzle from opposite 

 anterior margin eye, equal width frontal and one superciliary shield in front. 

 Inferior laliials eight, fifth largest, seventh next. Posterior genials equal an- 

 terior. Gastrosteges 155 ; anal 1 | 1 ; urosteges 69-}- ; tail probably one- 

 third or more lost. 



Color above, a rich dark brown, the sides of the head darker; an irregular 

 yellow band passes across the middle of the superior labials and passes round 

 the nape on the fifth row scales behind the o<'cipital plates and jc>ins its fellow. 

 A yellowish band passes along the outer margins of the two pairs of frontals, the 

 superciliaries and the anterior third of the occipitals, interrupted at each suture. 

 The dark of the upper surface extends on the gastrosteges, and is traversed 

 for a considerable part of the length, and by a faint line forward, by a streak 



1868.] 




104 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



on the middle of each scale. A similar line, equally indistinct, traverses the 

 scales of the fifth row, becoming more apparent on the tail. Color of lower 

 surfaces deep orange red ; lower labials and chin blackish. 



Length of head and body 16 in. 9 lin. 



This s])eciesis nearest the D. brevirostris Peters,* andD. tern po ral isf 

 Cope. The two preorbitals, single large temporal, coloration and other points 

 distinguish it. Its form is that of Pliocercus Cope, but belongs to Dromicus on 

 account of its diacranterian dentition. 



Two specimens (0*702) from the elevated valley of Quito. 



Tachymenis canilatus Cope, sp. nov. 



This species differs from the known species in a more slender form ; and in 

 general appeai-ance approaches the Lygophis e 1 e g a n s of Tschudi. 



Scales in nineteen rows, elongate, thin, with single terminal pores. Supe- 

 rior labials eight, fourth and fifth bounding orbit, sixth larger than seventh. 

 Inferior labials ten, fifth and sixth long and narrow. Posterior geneials longest. 

 Nasals large, distinct; loreal long as high, lower in front; preocular single, 

 just reaching vertical ; postoculars two. Temporals 1—1 — 2, the middle one 

 largest. Parietals narrowed behind, whole plate one-fifth longer than frontal, 

 common suture one-fifth shorter than same. Frontal narrower than each su- 

 perciliary, spreading a little in front. Muzzle flat, internasals longer than 

 broad, canthus rostralis strong. Rostral small, fiat Gastrosteges 199, anal 

 1 — 1, urosteges 98. Total length 18 in. 4 1.; of tail 5 in. 4 ; of gape 5 lin. 



Color leaden gray on the sides, bounded above on the sides by a faint black- 

 ish streak ; dorsal region brownish grey, witli a double row of brown spots, 

 when confluent covering five rows of scales. On the posterior half the body 

 and tail they unite into a vertebral band, which is separated from the gray of 

 the sides by a pale brown band. A dark band through frontal plate, split by 

 a pale one; a pair of white dots on the parietals, as in Tropidonotus sp. 

 Lips and belly below light yellow, the former brown-specked medially, black 

 margined above posteriorly. A brown band outside of muzzle. Each gas- 

 trostege with a row of brown dots its whole length. 



This species was not obtained by the Orton expedition, but was sent from 

 Guayaquil to the Smithsonian Institution in a collection made by Messrs. 

 Destruger and Reeve. 



CoNioPHANES DROMiciFORMis Cope, Proc. Acad. 1866, 128. Tachymenis dromici- 



formis Peters, Monatsberichte Preuss. Ac. 1863, 273. 



In four specimens of this species I find no scale-pores, and but one preocu- 

 lar. Prof. Peters describes scale-pores as present in his tj"pes, but I failed to 

 see them on examination of the same specimens, which he permitted me to 

 make. This character alone distinguishes this genus from Tachymenis, 

 though I ascribed the same importance, on a former occasion, to a supposed 

 difference in the number of preocular plates. That this is of little value in this 

 case, I can now agree with Peters in believing. 



From Guayaquil. No. 6689. 



Rhadin^a chrysostoma Cope, sp. nov. 



This species agrees with those of Rhadinaea m technical characters only. 

 Its proportions are those of Opheomorphus, from which it differs in the entirely 

 equal teeth. It might be referred to Hypsirhynchus, but in that genus there 

 is a single scale-pore, in the present they are wanting. The vertebr;e are not 

 furnished with hypapophyses on the posterior third of the length, but are 

 keeled below. 



Head elongate oval, quite distinct ; muzzle truncate when viewed from above 

 or in profile, not projecting. Rostral plate scarcely visible from above ; pre- 

 nasal higher than postnasal; loreal high as long, encroaching very little on 

 preocular, which latter does not reach frontal. Oculars 1 — 2, temporals 1 — 2. 



* Monatsberictite Preuss. Aeademie Wiss. 1803, 280. 

 t Proc. A. N. Sci. 1860, 307. 



[March, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 105 



Anterior touching both postoctilars. Labials 8—10; the upper with fourth 

 and fifth entering orbit, chiefly the fourth, which is longer than fifth. All 

 longer than high, the seventh largest, longer above than on labial border. 

 Genials long, anterior longer than posterior. Frontal elongate with nearly 

 parallel and slightly concave sides; occipitals moderate, narrowed behind. 

 Scales in seventeen rows, all of nearly equal size and rather broad. 



Total length 8 in. 4 lin. ; of tail 1 in. 6 1.; of gape 5-35 lines. The tail is 

 thus as short as in Opheomorphus. Eyes rather small. Internasals about as 

 wide as long. Gastrosteges 157 ; anals 1 | 1 ; urosteges 57. 



Upper surface of head and body dark-brown, which is bordered, except just 

 behind the head, by a series of small round brown spots on each side, which 

 become a band on the posterior fourth. Below this and ground of belly yel- 

 low, which is prolonged as a band along upper labials to rostral, leaving a 

 black labial margin. Belly with black cross-bars and halves, more sparse 

 posteriorly, confluent anteriorly on the fourth of the length ; this is here and 

 there spotted with yellow. 



From the Napo or Maranon. No. 66G5. This single specimen is probably 

 not fully grown. 



Masticophis pulchriceps Cope. sp. nov. 



This species is described from a specimen twenty-one inches long, and not 

 probably adult. The coloration of the dorsal region has considerable resem- 

 blance to that of the young of M. r a p p i i Gthr. 



Ratlier slender, the head quite distinct, rather short, somewhat flattened and 

 with broad muzzle. Tail 3-6 times in the total length. Superior labials eight, the 

 anterior short, the two posterior elongate, the third, fourth and fifth in contact 

 with the eye, the fifth and sixth elevated. Orbitals one — two ; the loreal 

 higher than long ; temporals 2 | 2 on each side, the upper anterior the small- 

 est. Internasals broader than long, rostral prominent, scarcely visible from 

 above. Frontal little concave laterally, least width little less than -5 length 

 and equal greatest width the superciliaries. Greatest length occipitals ex- 

 ceeds same of frontal ; they are truncate behind, and with straight outer mar- 

 gins. Inferior labials ten ; pregenials much shorter than postgenials. 



Scales of body smooth, in seventeen rows, second as large as the others. 

 Gastrosteges 170, anal 1 | 1, urosteges 100. 



Ground color above and below dark-blue gray, which is largely obscured in 

 the following manner A series of quadrate black spots extends from nape to 

 near end of tail, alternating with a lateral series of the same, without line of 

 demarkation between. Each spot is separated from the next by a cross-bar of 

 ground color, in which all the scales are white-edged. These bars are pro- 

 longed on the gastrosteges, and their extremities fall into a line of yellow spots 

 on a blackish band, which extend on each side to vent. The cross-bars are 

 only one scale wide. A black nuchal cresent, which extends as a band on 

 each side through orbit round end of muzzle. This sends a bar to the edge of 

 the lip at the orbit and angle of mouth, which connect on the lip. Gular 

 region black with numerous yellow spots. Top of head dark brown, with 

 numerous paler brown marks within the margin of each scale. 



One sp. (G704) from the plateau valley of Quito. 



Masticophis brunneus. Hcrpeiodryas brunneus Giinther, Catal. 11 G. Drymo- 



bim Cope, Pr. A. N. Sci. 1860. 



Two sp. (6705), one from Guayaquil and one from valley plateau of Quito. 

 Both belong to a variety with an indistinct series of small dark spots on each 

 side of the vertebral line, forming an incomplete longitudinal streak. 



Herpktodrws carinatus Boie, Linn. 



Valley of Quito; Guayaquil; Napo and Maranon, 6706, 6682, 6G61, the last 

 all of the var. fuscus. 



Spilotes piceus Cope, sp. nov. 



This species exhibits the isodont dentition and entire anal plate of Spilotes, 



1868.] 8 




106 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



with the cylindric body and clonofate tail of Bascanium. The relative length 

 of tail, within the proportions included by the genera in question, is, however, 

 a more variable character than the integrity of the anal plate as a generic 

 feature in our estimation. I therefore refer it to the Spilotes series. The 

 divided anal plate is also characteristic of Masticophis, (Peters describes a 

 Mexican species in which he says it is variable) ; this species is, however, more 

 massive than these, and generally proportioned as the Bascanium constric- 

 tor. 



Scales in fifteen rows, broad, subequal, all smooth. Tail 3-6 times into the 

 total length. Head rather distinct, ovate, muzzle not prolonged. Anterior 

 margin four-fifths total length ; lateral margins slightly concave. Prefrontals 

 broader than long. Occipitals concavely, continuously truncate behind ; tem- 

 porals 2 I 2, entirely in contact with two last labials. Only one small plate be- 

 sides bounding occipital. Superior labials eight, fourth and fifth bounding 

 orbit; sixth subtriangular, in contact with lower postocular. Postnasal higher 

 than prenasal, loreal higher than long, one pre- two short postoculars. Inferior 

 labials nine ; postgenials considerably longer than the pregenials. The ros- 

 tral plate is rather narrowed and with concave sides ; it is barely visible from 

 above. 



Above and gastrosteges to one-fourth their length on each side, deep black. 

 Lower surfaces, with upper labial shields, yellow ; black margin dividing two 

 last labials horizontally; no dark margins to labials. 



Total length 51 in. 8 lin. ; of tail 13 in. 81. Gastrosteges 169 ; anal 1; 

 urosteges 92. 



This fine species is from the Napo or Upper Maranon. No. 6660. 



To this genus must be referred the Geoptr/ns collans and G. flavivcntris Stein- 

 dachner (Sitzungsber. Wien, 1867, 271), while the name Geoptyas applied to 

 Coryphodon p a u t h e r i n u s and C. constrictor of the Erp. Generale must 

 become a synonym of Bascanium, Baird and Girard. G. collaris is Sp. ra e 1 a- 

 n u r u s, from Mexico, while the G. flaviventris is too near Sp. c o rais. 



Thrasops CUPREU3 Cope, sp. nov. 



A slender, cylindric species, with an unusually short broad head. 



Scales in fifteen longitudinal rows, the three median a little larger than the 

 others and equal, the median five, keeled, the keels invisible or nearly so, when 

 the epidermis is lost. Head flat above, muzzle contracted and short. Rostral 

 plate little visible from above, much broader than high, internasals subtrian- 

 gular, behind broad as long. Prefrontal on one side descending to labials, on 

 the other, all below the canthus roslralis cut off as a large loreal. Frontal 

 not longer than supercilaries, with concave sides and a right angle behind. 

 Occipitals well developed, broad, broadl^^ truncate behind, bounded by five 

 temporals. The anterior of these is much the largest and in contact with 

 three labials and the postoculars ; behind it a second large plate borders the 

 last labial only. Superior labials eight, none elevated, fourth and fifth mar- 

 gining orbit ; oculars one, two, the inferior posterior minute. The long narrow 

 nasal is acuminate posteriorly, and borders the first and half the second labial, 

 and the internasal plate exactly. 



The number (15) of rows of scales is retained on the neck. Total length 

 20-5 in.; of tail 8 in.; of gape of mouth, 5-5 lines. Gastrosteges 152, anal 

 divided (generic char.) ; urosteges 136. 



Color above metalic copper color, with the shades at the bases of the scales, 

 and cross-shades of the same on the anterior half of the body. A narrow 

 dark streak from nasal plate along upper edges of labials ; the latter and chin 

 yellowish white, below brown copper colored, with darker dashes. When the 

 epidermis is lost, which very readily occurs, the derm appears of a coppery 

 silver color. 



From the Napo and Maranou. No. 66G6. 



[March, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 107 



Thrasops occidextalis, Almtulla occidentalis Gunther, Proc. Zool. Soc. Lond. 

 1859, 412. 

 From Guayaquil, from Messrs. Detruger and Reeve. 



OXYBELIS ACUMINATUS, Wicd. 



Guayaquil, 6687. 



Olisthknes coronatus, Scytale coronaiiim, Dum. Bibr. Gthr. 



OxYRHOPCs SEB.E, Dum. Bibr. vii, 1056. 



From the valley of Quito. The stomach contained a Lioceijhalus. 



Leptognathus bdcephaltjs Cope, Dipsas Scbleg. Dipsadomorus indicus Dum. 

 Bibr. Dipsadomorus hucephalus Jan. Leptognathus indicus Gunther. Tab. 

 Seba, xliii, 4-5. 



This species is no doubt the type of Laurenti's genus Dipsas, as I have 

 pointed out, (Proc. Acad. 1860) but by the rule of exclusion, as -Leptognathus 

 was first taken from it, the remaining species, to which Dum^ril and Bibron 

 applied the name Triglyphodon, should retain the original name. 



Fine specimen ; Napo or Maranon. 



As the species in the Academy are not embraced in the Erpetologie G6nerale 

 and other works, I give a synopsis of those known to me, six of them not 

 described in any general work. The species not embraced in the Equador col- 

 lections are described at the end of the catalogue. I have been aided in this 

 by Jan's Elenco serpentium. 



Group L Dorsal scales smooth, a larger vertebral 



series ; anterior genials very short ; two pairs of 



inferior labials in contact in advance of the genials. 



{Dipsadomorus D. B. Jan.) 



Scales in 13 rows ; a large preocular ; above and below liver 



brown, with broad lighter cross bars, which terminate 



in a bright yellow spot on the edges of the gastrosteges ; 



six genials, with lateral plates behind bccephala. 



Scales in fifteen rows ; no preocular ; four genials ; dark 

 brown, with darker cross-bars ; below yellow with lat- 

 eral dark spots tariegata. 



Group n. Scales smooth, vertebral series larger ; 

 anterior genials small, preceded by one pair of 

 labials ; 



A. Loreal plate not reaching the orbit. 

 Two preoculars, two postoculars, scales in thirteen rows ; 

 vertebral plates reaching occipital ; nine upper labials ; 

 chestnut brown, with black yellow-edged discs on the 

 sides which become confluent into broad cross rings an- 

 teriorly, separated by yellow ; head black with yellow 



collar and cross band on muzzle catesbyi. 



«a. Loreal plate entering the orbit. 



0. Two postoculars. 



Thirteen series of scales, (ten) eleven superior labials, one 



preocular, twelve inferiors, six genials, without laterals, 



vertebrals not reaching occipitals ; light, a series of 



broad rounded, brown light edged dorsal spots, just 



reaching gastrosteges ; belly unspotted pavonina. 



Fifteen series scales, nine superior labials, no preoculars, 

 eleven inferiors, four genials, no lateral genials, verte- 

 brals not reaching occipitals ; much compressed; yellow 

 with broad brown entire annuli ; nape and temples and 

 spots on muzzle yellow articulata. 



1868.] 




108 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Fifteen series scales, seven superior, nine inferior labials ; 

 two, one, or no preocular; six genials, with laterals, 

 vertebrals broader, body shorter ; brown, with continu- 

 ous or alternate narrow, dark brown yellow-edged cross 

 bars ; belly with few lateral spots, top of head with five 

 dark light-edged ocelli mikanii. 



Fifteen series scales, vertebral little larger; seven superior, 

 eleven inferior labials ; six genials, no laterals ; less com- 

 pressed ; yellow, black specked, with broad black equal 

 annuli, not quite complete, on the bellj', and dorsal black 

 spot between; head black, varied above, belly much 



black spotted oreas. 



/?/?. Three or four postoculars. 



Vertebral series larger, no preoculars ; ten superior and infe- 

 rior labials, six genials with laterals ; fifteen rows 

 scales ; light brown with a series of blackish cross 

 bands, very broad anteriorly, much narrower and more 

 Humerous on most of the length ; a series of brown 



spots below IN^QUIFASCIATA. 



Group III. Scales smooth, vertebral series larger; 

 anterior genials forming a long pair as in other ser- 

 pents, preceded by one pair labials. [Petalogna- 

 thus D. B. 

 Fifteen rows scales, dorsal series not reaching occipitals ; no 

 preoculars, two postoculars ; four genials, no laterals ; 

 thickly brown dusted, with brown yellow edged dorsal 

 cross bars which are or are not continuous with a late- 

 ral series which is continued on a portion of the gas- 

 trosteges ; below yellow nkbulata. 



Group IV. Scales smooth, dorsal series not larger ; 



anterior genials elongate, colubriform, preceded by 



one pair of labials. 



Thirteen rows of scales, no pre-, two postoculars ; seven 



superior, eight inferior labials ; three pairs genials, 



without laterals ; black with yellow rings continuous 



on the belly but not on the anterior parts above ; yellow 



scales black edged ; temple and nape yellow anthkacops. 



Group V. Scales equal, smooth ; genials short, 

 broad, preceded by two pairs of labials. 

 Fifteen rows scales, one preocular and a subloreal, three 

 postoculars, nine superior, eleven inferior labials; slen- 

 der, compressed ; black with narrow yellow annuli ; 



chin all black, a yellow collar bkevifacies. 



Group VI. Scales equal, smooth ; genials short, 

 broad, preceded by one pair inferior labials. 

 Form little compressed, scales in fifteen rows ; eleven 

 superior, eight inferior labials ; no preoculars, two 

 postoculars ; four genials without laterals ; yellow 

 brown, with three rows black, yellow edged subquad- 

 rate spots, which unite in front and become also 



longer; head spotted, small spots on sides of belly turoida. 



Group VII. Scales equal, several dorsal series 



keeled ; first pair of genial plates short, preceded by 



one pair of labials onlj'. [Tropidodipsas Gthr.) 



Head more elongate, scales in seventeen rows; two anterior, 



two posterior oculars ; three pairs genials, seven upper 



[March, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 109 



labials ; black with nearly equal yellow annuli ; not com- 

 plete on belly fasciata. 



Head short, broad ; scales in seventeen rows, the three me- 

 dian only keeled ; one preocular, loreal reaching orbit, 

 two postocnlars, tliree pairs genials ; six superior, nine 

 inferior labials ; black with narrow yellow rings, yellow 



scales, black tipped sartorii. 



The seven groups of this genus do not represent genera, but rather sections, 

 for the following reasons. The vertebral series of dorsal scales is so reduced 

 in L. o r e a s Cope, as to constitute it a link between the two types in this re- 

 spect. The keels are so weak in L. sartorii Cope, and the allied L. a n th r a- 

 cops Cope being smooth, this character appears to have no more than spe- 

 cific value. The elongate pregenials, appear to constitute a strong distinction, 

 but in one of our numerous L.nebulata they are divided as in other species. 

 Lastly, the peculiarity of the junction of two inferior labials is less to be relied 

 on, in view of the fact fliat in one of our L. bu c e p h a 1 a there is one on one 

 side and two on the other in front of the genials. 



Leptognathus catesbyi Giinther, Coluber Weigel, Slremmatognathus D. B. 

 Apparently abundant on the Napo and Upper Maranon. 



Leptognathus oreas Cope, sp. nov. 



Body less compressed ]iosteriorly than anteriorly. Frontal plate broader 

 than long, very obtuse behind. Occipitals 1-75 times longer, narrowed and 

 divergent behind. Temporals one large anterior higher than long, in contact 

 with both postoculars ; two broad ones, lower joining last labial, then a row 

 of four. Four anterior labials not narrowed, third, fourth and fifth entering 

 the orbit ; the three last longer than high. 



Dorsal band wider anteriorly, approaching on the sides ; behind they are 

 not all continuous, but alternate on the sides, then also the light intervals are 

 much obscured, no black collar. Chin and throat yellow. An irregular black 

 yellow edged band on each side of head from behind occiptals to middle of 

 superciliaries ; other head plates witli similar black margins. Upper labials 

 yellowish, with a black line from loreal plate, one from orbit, and a broad one 

 over last labial, including two last lower labials. Belly largely obscured with 

 black. 



Gastrosteges 180, anal 1 ; urosteges 90. 



Total length 26 in. ; of tail 7 in. ; of gape of mouth 8 lines. 



From the elevated valley of Quito. (No. 6707.) 



Leptognathus NEBULATA Giinther, Jan. Coluberhinn. Dipsas SithXeg. Feta- 



lognathus Dum. Bibr. 



No. 6708 from the valley of Quito. 



This species is the most extensively distributed of the genus. It ranges 

 from the Tierra Caliente of Vera Cruz (Suraichrast) to Nicaragua (Caldwell) 

 to Caraccas (Ashmead) and Dutch Guiana (Hering) ; according to Giinther 

 from Pernambuco. 



Himantodes cenchoa L., D. and B. 

 Napo and Maranon. No. 6670. 



Leptodira anndlata Linn., Fitz. 

 Napo and Maranon, and Guayaquil. 



rROTEROGLYniA. 



Pelamis bicolor. 



From Guayaquil and Panama, apparently not rare. 



Elaps lemniscatus Linn. 

 Guayaquil, (6685.) 



1868.] 




110 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Elaps mipartitus Dum. Bibr. 



Four specimens from Guayaquil, and one from the valley of Quito. 



EliAPS IMPERATOR Cope, Sp. UOV. 



This is a species of the E. c o r a 1 1 i n us group, and is nearest to the series B. 

 II. a. y. aa. of Gunther's synopsis of individuals of this genus ;* or to the E. 

 o rn a t i s s i ni u s of Jan. It differs from the latter and from all others, in 

 that the black bands are wider than the red and cease at the third row of 

 scales, not extending on the first two, or on the gastroteges. The two rows 

 are margined with black on a yellow ground. Black bands T-5, red ones 5 

 scales wide ; scales in the latter, of the first row, narrowlj-, of the two following 

 broadly tipped with black ; the remaining dorsal series entirely black or with 

 a faint basal shade of red. Yellow margins on half scales alternating. The 

 red bands cross the belly on two and a half gastrosteges. Top of head and 

 nape black, except outer half of internasal and prefrontal plates, which with 

 the labials are yellow. Labials black edged, not in contact with temporals, 

 which are yellow edged at bases. Lower lip, rostral plate, chin and belly un- 

 spotted, yellow. Two postoculars, Gastrosteges 225, anal 1 | 1 : urosteges 37. 



Total length 2 ft. 3 in. 4 lin. ; of tail 2 in. 7 1. 



From the Napo and Maranon ; one specimen. 



It is difficult to imagine a more elegantly colored species of this beautiful, 

 but venomous genus. Dr. Giinther has shown the inconstancy of colors in some 

 species of the genus. Within certain limits the species are very constant, as I 

 have had occasion to observe in numerous specimens of E. lemniscatus, E. 

 elegans, E, mipartitus, E. nigrocinctus, E. euryxanthus, E. fulvius, etc. 



SOLEJVOGLFPHA. 



Tbleuraspis nitida Cope. Lachesis nitida Giinther, Proc. Zool. Lond., 1859. 

 From Guayaquil. 



Trigonocephalus brasiliensis. Bothrops jararaca Wagl. Craspedocephalus 



Gray. 



Three specimens from Napo and Upper Amazon ; the smallest with fifteen 

 urosteges behind the vent, undivided. 



Trigonocephalus xanthogrammus Cope, sp. nov. 



Form rather elongate ; head elongate, muzzle short. Scales of body in 

 twenty-seven longitudinal series, not strongly keeled, the dorsal narrow, those 

 of the first row ovate, longer than broad. Scales of the whole top of the head 

 small, smooth, nine or ten rows between the large superciliary shields. Four 

 elongate plates in a row on top of the end of the muzzle, which are bounded 

 behind by four much smaller ovate ones. Superior labials seven, the second 

 bounding the pit anteriorly ; the last five large and of nearly equal size, infe- 

 rior labials eleven, the two anterior broadly in contact in front of geneials. 

 Two preoculars are loral, two nasals ; rostral elevated. Gastrosteges 196, 

 urosteges 54. 



Color above very dark olive, with a zigzag yellow line on each side from the 

 head to the origin of the tail, the apices of the open Vs usually meeting on 

 the vertebral line, enclosing dorsal rhombic spaces and lateral triangles. The 

 bases of the triangles embrace seven or eight transverse series of scales. 

 Gastroteges black, paler medially, with yellow irregular spots at their extrem- 

 ities. Gular region, chin, and superior labials bright yellow ; a bright golden 

 band round the end of the muzzle, involving the greater part of the sui)ercil- 

 iary plates, passes to the nape, and is bounded below by a black band from eye 

 to angle of mouth ; top of head black, with a pair of undulating yellow bands 

 from the nape which meet on the vertex forming a V. 



* Ann. Magaz. N. Hist., 1859, 171. 



[March, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. Ill 



Inches. 



Total length 60-7 



Length of rictus oris 1-75 



Length of tail V-5 



Width between outer margins superciliary plates... 0-7 



From Pallatanga, Equador. Two specimens. 



BATRACHIA. 



ANURA. 



ARCIFERA. 



C1NCLIDIU.M GRANULATUM Cope, Journ. Acad. J\at. ?ci., 1867, 202. 



Length body and hind limb together 8-5 inches. One specimen. No. 6659. 

 From the Napo or Upper Amazon. 



Hyla marmorata Daudin, Dum. Bibr. 



This species is quite distinct from that described and figured under this 

 name by Burmeister.* The latter being without name may be called H. seni- 

 c ul a. 



I append a description of the fresh coloration of this species, which does 

 not appear to have been recorded. 



Ground color above gray, with two large blackish blotches which extend 

 backwards on the sides, one from the iliac, and one at the axillar regions. 

 These are confluent on the middle line of the back, leaving only the scapular 

 regions and insignificant spots of the ground, which is more or less replaced 

 by bay. The last color forms a V-shaped figure with broad black border, 

 whose limbs reach the orbits and enclose a pink gray space which is bounded 

 in front by a black interorbital cross-band. Top of muzzle light bay. Gular 

 region pale, with dark gray speckles. Belly and femora, except a narrow band 

 above, with basal part of humerus, yellow black spotted ; the spots smaller and 

 thicker on the belly. Upper surfaces of limbs dark gray with rufous shades, 

 cross-})arred with darker. End of humerus and femur, fore arm and band 

 with tibia and whole foot black below ; the distal halves of the webs yellow. 

 Dermal margin of ulna and tibia white. 



From the Rio fVapo or Upper Amazon below its mouth. Eleven specimens. 

 This species is strikingly different from others of this genus, in the great ex- 

 tent of its webs, and the singular coloration. It appears to be abundant in the 

 region named. No. 6649. 



Hyla leucophyllata Beireis. II. frontalis Daud. 



A variety in which the brown dorsal patch does not bifurcate to the lateral 

 band, and the muzzle is rather more elongate. 



Napo and Upper Maranon. No. 6650. 



Hylella carnea Cope, sp. nov. 



This is a small species with a broad rounded head, and slender body and 

 limbs. The canthus rostralis is moderately distinct, and the tympanum indis- 

 tinct and small, and surmounted by a fold. Eyes large and jirominent, diam- 

 eter -25 greater than length of muzzle in advance of them. Nostrils terminal, 

 end of muzzle vertical. Tongue round, -25 free behind. Ostia pharyngea equal 

 inner nares. Fingers -33 webbed, and with dermal margins; dilatations of 

 moderate size. Skin of bony above smooth. 



The exterior coloration does not appear on the femur, which is unicolor 

 behind, and onl}^ as a faint line on humerus. This pigment is light rose yellow ; 

 three narrow bands across tibia, two across fore arm. A broad blood-red band 

 between the eyes, each extremity sending a blood-red band on each side the 

 back to the vent, with a connecting spot of the same on the coccyx. A deep 



* In Erlaut. z. Niiturg. Braziliens. 



1868.] 




112 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



red band from scapular region to end of muzzle ; and line below the eye. 

 Below uniform whitish. 



Lin. Lin. 



Length head and body 9 Width head 3 



" hind limb 14 Length gape 2 



" hind foot 6 



From tlie Napo or Upper Maranon, (6728.) 

 The third species of this little known genus. 



PlTHECOPDS TOMOPTEKNUS Cope, Sp. DOV. 



Tliis genus with Agalychnis Cope, and Phyllomedusa, embrace the most 

 brilliantly colored of tropical Batrachians. Their characters were first pointed 

 out by the writer in Journal Ac. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1806. The species of Pitheco- 

 pus Cope, are now four, two having been added by the William's College Ex- 

 pedition ; tliej' may be distinguished as follows : 



I. Parotoid stratum of crypts not visible externally; no external surface pig- 

 ment on humerus. 



*. A yellow band round upper lip to middle of sides ; pigment of fore arm 



extending on two outer fingers ; dilatations small ; second toe shorter 



than inner. 



No dermal processes on heel; lower eyelid transparent; no vomerine 



teetli ; concealed portions of limbs and sides with vertical brown bands ; 



small „ P. AZURKUS Cope. 



No dermal processes on heel ; lower eyelid reticulate ; vomerine teeth ; con- 

 cealed surfaces of limbs with vertical brown bands; fewer of the same on 

 sides, and brown spots behind axilla; small. ..P. hypochodnrialis Daudin. 

 aa. No yellow band on upper or lower lip or side ; external pigment not 

 extending on outer fingers ; dilatations large, second toe longer than 

 inner. 

 Lower eyelid reticulate ; vomerine teeth ; tM'o angular dermal heel pro- 

 cesses, together having a truncate posterior outline ; concealed surfaces 

 brilliant yellow, with broad vertical purple bars ; size larger — 



P. TOMOPTERNUS Cope. 



n. Parotoid stratum of crypts distinct, extending from orbit to sacrum ; 

 humerus covered with the external pigment. 



*. No yellow band on upper lip, an imperfect one on side ; outer fingers 



and toes covered with the external pigment; dilatations large, second 



toe shorter than inner. 



No dermal processes ; lower eyelid not reticulate ; vomerine teeth present ; 



green, upper arm with a yellow band ; concealed surfaces of limbs with 



purple clouds; below purplish ; large P. tarsius Cope. 



P. tomopternus has much the coloration of Agalychnis sp., and the 

 whole form a series leading from Hyla to Phyllomedusa* The P. tarsius ap- 



* One species of this genus has been long known, but has been confounded by modern 

 authors with the longest known species of the genus Pithecopus. A second species is 

 here added. 

 Inner toes equal; dilatations large ; sides little, limbs unspotted; skin 



with stellate bony deposits scleroderma. 



.Second toe shorter tiian first; dilatations small ; sides, throat and limbs 



largely yellow-spotted; skin smooth bieolor. 



P. SCLERODERMA Sp. HOV. 



One of the largest of the Hylid®, measuring from end of muzzle to vent 4 in. 1-5 lines, 

 same to posterior border tympanum 1 in. 34 I.; between parotoids and scapula. 1 in. 65 1. 

 Axilla to carpus 1 in. 11-6 1.' Carpus to end of third finger 1 in. 2-5 1. Femur and tibia 3 in. 

 0-6 1.; tarsus 1 in. 3 1.; tarsus to end fourth toe 1 in. 4-6 1. 



The general form is much that of P. bi eo 1 or, but the toes are longer and provided 

 with larger dilatations; the under face of the tarsus, and the skin generally, are devoid of 

 dermal tubercles. The integument of the whole upper surface of the head and body is 

 studded with aggregations of osseous radii, which surround, more or less, numerous 



[March, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 113 



proaches the last named genus most closel}-, and equals them in size. Of the 

 P. azure us I have seen three specimens from Brazil, two from the upper 

 Paraguay, and one from Pernambuco ; of the P. hypochondrialis one 

 specimen from Dutch Guiana. 



The P. t o m o p t e r n u s is of elongate form ; width of head 3-3 times from 

 end of muzzle to end coccyx. Loreal region elevateil, plane, canthus rostralis 

 contracted, muzzle not quite vertical in profile. Tympanum one-third the 

 large eye. Vomerine in two small fascicles opposite the anterior part of inner 

 nares, as far apart as each is from the choana. Inner nares very large, rather 

 larger than ostia of eustachian tube. The elbow reaches end of muzzle, the 

 heel to front of orbit. A dermal fold on lower arm, strong on elbow ; a weak 

 one on tarsus, terminating above in two heel processes, one projecting inwards 

 and one outwards. All the fingers and toes entirely free, thumb ojjposable, 

 fourth finger considerably longer than second. Longest toe the fourth, then 

 5, 3, 2, 1. Palm and sole with strong tubercles. 



The colors are very brilliant ; above green, below with hands and feet yel- 

 low ; outer fingers and toes bound with jjurple, like the concealed surfaces. 

 One specimen has an exceedingly narrow yellow margin to the uj)per lip. No 

 tjrown margin inside lower lip. 



Lines. 



Total length head and body 23- 



Length to posterior margin tympanum (axial) 6-1 



'• fore limb 15*6 



" band 5-6 



" hind limb from groin 32-6 



" tarsus "''"t^ 



" metatarsus and longest toe T- 



Two specimens of this tree-frog are in the collection from the Rio Napo, or 

 Upper Amazon, below the mouth of the former. They are males and have the 

 corneous thumb shield of the breeding season. No. 6651, Mus. Smiths. 



PiTHECOPDS TARSIUS Cope, Sp. HOV. 



Form slender ; width of head at jaws, enters from end nose to vent, 3-5 

 times. Loreal region elevated, with the canthus concave ; upper lip project- 

 ing beyond muzzle. Diameter of eye three times tympanum. Tongue elon- 

 gate, largely free and openly marginate behind, narrowed in front. Vomerine 

 teeth in two transverse fasciculi, which are equi- distant from each other and the 

 anterior margin of the large internal nares. Ostia large and less than nares. 

 Skin everywhere granular, perhaps more properly glandular, those of the 

 sides largest. Areola; verj' large and flat on the pectoral region ; a series of 

 larger glandulous areolre on each thigh below. No distinct dermal margin on 

 forearm or tarsus. Digital dilatations of hand largest, larger than the tym- 

 panic disc ; that of the thumb smaller. Elbow to opposite nares ; heel to front 

 of orbit. Second toe much shorter than first, third less than fifth. 



Color everywhere green, shaded with purple on gular and thoracic regions ; 

 also along sides and on under surfaces of thumbs. Femur green, except below, 

 two external digits of the same color. An irregular yellow band on side from 



central points. These do not penetrate through the derm, which is thick, and entirely free 

 from the skeleton in every part. Muzzle elevated, loreal region straight, canthus rostra- 

 lis strong, concave. Male with vocal vesicle. Tympanum one-half of orbit; inferior pal- 

 pebra medially transparent, dermoid at the circumterence. Vomerine fasciculi oblique 

 between nares as near the latter as each otiier. Minute areolations on postcrinr gular 

 region. Tongue small. Elbow extends to end of muzzle; hand and longest tiugir ciiual 

 forearm. Heel to orbit; sole and longest toe exceeding tarsus; cuneiform tubercle 

 minute; base of thumb broad, with a flattened tubercle. 



Blue-green with faint light margin to posterior parts of upper and lower lips, and one 

 series of very narrow longitudinallateral spots. Limbs blue above, except the pale brown 

 spotted upper arm; antebrachium and tarsus yellow margined; femora uniform pale blue 

 behind. Below uniform pale. 



//«6i/j<.— Surinam, Heriny, Mus. Academy Nat. Sciences. Burmeisfer suspects the spe- 

 eies of the Amazon to be that found in Surinam, and different trom the P. b i c o 1 o r. 



1868.] 




114 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



angle of mouth and margin of mandible. Two isolated yellow spots on breast, 



and one on each side the vent below. 



In. Lin. 



Length head and body 3 9''25 



" head, axially, to line tympanum 1 



" fore limb 2 8- 



" hand.. 1 



" hind limb from groin 5 3- 



" tarsus 1 415 



" remainder of foot • 1 2-25 



This tree-frog, it is to be observed, exceeds the Phyllomedusa bicolor in 



size. One male with the file-like corneous plates on the metatarsus of the 



thumb is in the collection, from the same locality as the last. No. 6652, Mus. 



Smithsonian. 



Hemiphractus divaricatus Cope, sp. nov. 



A single specimen of this species has afforded the first opportunity of inves- 

 tigating the structure of this genus. The result convinces me of the propriety 

 of recognizing in it a peculiar family as Peters has done, and confirming en- 

 tirely the position I assigned it in the essay on genera of Arcifera.* The form 

 of the distal phalanges is a compromise between that of many aquatic frogs 

 aud that of the Hylidte, the proximal globe being not recognizable, and much 

 flattened. Its structure is different from that of Hylodes, though- it does not 

 probably inhabit trees any more than that genus, or Chorophilus and Acris 

 among true Hylidas. 



The coracoid and epicoracoid are much less divergent than in other families, 

 and the arched cartilages are very wide, overlapping more extensively than in 

 any genus I am acquainted with. 



The H. d i V a r i c a t u s is nearer the H. scutatus than to the H. fascia- 

 tu s. It differs from the latter chiefly in the form and proportions of the hel- 

 met; this is shorter and broader, with more divergent outlines, and is plane 

 and flat behind, and not so convex ; it lacks the recurved margin represented 

 by Peters. In profile the upper margin of the mouth is straight, not curved, 

 and the eye is median, not anterior. Other ditterences are that the anterior 

 vomerine tooth, or teeth, are abruptly longer than the others, and the throat is 

 l)lackish, with a broad yellow median band. There are transverse rows of 

 tubercles on the sides of the belly. 



Interorbital width about one-third expanse of supratympanic ridges ; from 

 end muzzle to interorbital point 1-5 times from latter to concavity of posterior 

 margin helmet. From bony orbit to tympanum equal from latter to angle of 

 helmet. 



Orbital fissure •'75 long (vertical), diameter membranum tympani, which 

 latter is double width of same. Margin of helmet behind, medially slightly 

 elevated. Muzzle flat with a short terminal dermal process ; eyelids with a 

 marginal prolongation. Head slightly granular above; body smooth above; 

 oblique rows of tubercles on forearm. Belly closely, throat sparsely, granular. 

 Both fingers and toes with rudimental web~. A large palmar tubercle ; two 

 indistinct metatarsal tubercles, the inner elongate. A fold along tarsus and 

 outer toe; slight dermal margins on all the toes. A similar fold on forearm 

 and outer finger, and on the other fingers. 



In. Lin. 



Length head and body to vent 2 2- 



" of casque on mediad line ; least 10-5 



" " " " » greatest 13-25 



" hind limb 2 11-5 



" foot 1 4-5 



" tarsus 7- 



* Journal Academy, 1866. 



[March, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 115 



Length forelimb 1 3- 



" hand : "^-S 



Width between nares 1'^ 



" " orbits 5- 



" casque, svipeviorly, behind ^■i' 



" " inferiorly, " .. ^6- 



Grayish-brown above, dark-brown below ; a yellow band from chin to 

 breast ; black bands on tarsus and forearm. A black blotch below vent, one 

 above tympanum, one below eye (indistinct on one side), and several smaller 

 ones on edge of upper lip. 



From the Napo and Maranon. 6648. 



Two specimens of two species of this genus in the Museum of Munich are 

 the only ones known in any Museum besides the present one. 



The curious and high degree of ossification of the crania of this and several 

 other Neotropical genera, ajipears to be a defence to the animals possessing it. 

 When killed in spirits they frequently die with the flexor muscles of the head 

 contracted, and the bony front presented like a shield. This is no doubt an 

 important defense against the bite of venomous serpents, which abound in the 

 regions where they occur. This defence appears, however, to be rather a con- 

 sequence of such structure than a cause, in a physiological sense; since the 

 majority of the Anura in the Continental Neotropical region, where they are 

 equally exposed to venomous serpents, do not possess it, while the tree-toads of 

 the West Indian district, where venomous snakes are almost unknown, invari- 

 ably exhibit this extraordinary ossification. 



LiTHODYTES coNSPiciLLATUS. Hylodes cotispicUlatus Giiuther, Br. Z. S. Lond. 

 1859. 

 From the valley of Quito. 



Cystignathus hyl^edactylus Cope, sp. nov. 



A species belonging to the section of the genus characterized by having the 

 vomerine teeth in two arched series on the line of the palatine bones ; the 

 digits without dermal margins, and the belly included in a discoid fold of the 

 derm. 



A vertebral and dorso-lateral dermal fold, and some shorter ones on the 

 sides, but no large warts or glands on the groin. Muzzle ovate, gradually de- 

 scending at extremity, canthus rostralis not strong, contracted. Tibia less than 

 half head and body. Ethmoid not ossified to end muzzle. Brown with a 

 dark-brown band at each dorso-lateral fold, and two dark spots on the anterior 

 half of each side. A dark band from axilla to orbit, from orbit to tip, and 

 between orbits. Fore limbs not, hind limbs scarcely cross-barred; femur mar- 

 bled behind. Belly and throat pale yellow. 



The toes have distinct dilatations at the end, but not the fingers ; all have 

 strong tubercles below ; two minute metatarsal tubercles. Tongue considera- 

 bly free behind and laterally. Vomerine series not extending exterior to inner 

 margin of nares. Tympanum one-half orbit. Wrist not quite to end muzzle ; 

 heel to middle of orbit. 



Total length 11-6 1.; of hind limb 16- 1. ; of gape 3-1 1. ; width head behind 

 4- lines. 



From the Napo or upper Maranon. 



In spite of its dilated toes this is a true Cystignathus. I also place in this 

 genus Hylodes hallowellii Cope, and Platymantis p e ter s i i Steindach- 

 ner. They are closely allied to each other; the latter by no means a {^Platy- 

 mantis) Halophila, a genus which does not occur in the new world. 



BUFO NARICUS Spix. 



From the Napo and Maranon. 



B0FO ANDiANUS Cope. '^ Bufo intermedius Gthr.," Cope, Proc. Ac. N. Sci. Phil. 

 18G2, 376, nee Guenthcrii, hinc Phyrnoidis intermedius Cope, 1. c. 



1868.] 




116 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



Cranium with the curved orbital margiu elevated into a ridge, and con- 

 tinued into a strong suiiratympanic ridge ; a short preorhital ridge, no postor- 

 bital. Parotoid gland divergent towards the sides, elongate triangular nar- 

 row, continued into a lateral dermal fold. Two metatarsal tubercles, both 

 small; a smooth-edged tarsal fold. Tympanum distinct, less than half diame- 

 ter of eye. A trace of a parietal branch ridge on cranium. Canthus rostralis 

 very strong, concave short. Muzzle elevated, profile vertical, not as long, in 

 a straight line, as the long diameter of eye fissure. Nostril terminal. Greatest 

 width of head 2 6 times in length head and body ; length foot without tarsus 

 2-75 in same. Hind foot, outer toes with last phalanges only free ; 3i of medi- 

 an free. Heel to hinder edge orbit. Skin covered with small round tubercles 

 above. Palms and soles rough, and limbs generally, metacarpus with two 

 strong tubercles. Half the femur included in the skin of the body. 



Gray above, with small paired dark-brown spot on each side the median 

 line ; these are more or less confluent, and have a few smaller spots external 

 to them. Sides below lateral fold brown-marbled. Lip with two brown spots 

 on each side, a large brown spot on each side tympanum. A brown band 

 across eyelid and verter. Pale below, with brown blotches on breast and 

 belly. 



Lin. Lin. 



Length head and body 19-5 Length tarsus 45 



" " includ. tympanum... 5-4 " long toe 7-5 



" tibia 7-4 " hind limb 23- 



Several specimens (Xo. 6712) from the valley of Quito. Originally brought 

 from Carthagena, New Greuada. (No. 4350 Mus Smithsonian.) 



This species is nearest the B. a g u a. It differs in its very much smaller 

 size, being one-eighth or tenth the bulk of the latter, in its relatively smaller 

 and narrower parotoid glands, and in its pincheil, narrow, angulate muzzle. 

 It is also near the B. d i p t y c h u s Cope, a still smaller species. In the latter 

 the toes are much less palmate, the muzzle longer and the parotoids broader. 



Bdfo agua Daud. B. marinus Schneider. 

 From the Napo and Upper Amazon. 



RAXIFORMFA. 



Atelopus longirostris Cope, sp. nov. 



The muzzle prolonged, the ethmoid cartilage overhanging the labial border, 

 and forming an acute-angled prominence. The muzzle a little longer than 

 the long diameter of the eye ball ; nostril just behind a lateral projection 

 formed by the extremity of the prefrontal. Canthus nostralis a right angle, 

 lores nearly plane, upper profile entirely plane, transversely a little 

 concave in front of the orbits. Greatest width of head behind nearly 

 one-third length from end muzzle to end coccyx. Extended backwards 

 the fore limb extends beyond the vent ; forward the hind limb meas- 

 ures to the front of the orbit with the heel. Toes about half webbed, 

 the inner quite rudimental ; fingers slightly webbed, the inner short. 

 Skin above and below entirely smooth, .a line of granular elevations 

 along the side. A faint tarsal fold; metatarsal tubercles not developed. Ostia 

 of eustachian tubes, each half an inner nostril ; latter small lateral. Tongue 

 narrow, elongate. One large round metacarpal tubercle. Total length 10-6 

 lines. From nostril to posterior extremity supratympanic ridge 3-3 lines. 

 Total length fore limb 6-6 lines; of hind do. 13-1 lines ; foot 6 lines; tarsus 3-5 

 lines ; extent of sacrum 3 lines. 



Above black ; under surfaces and upper lip yellow. A greenish spot on each 

 scapular region, and two or three pairs of the same on each side the vertebral 

 line. Femur behind yellow, with a proximal longitudinal, and two distal 

 transverse black bands. All the toes blackish, thumb yellow. 



From the valley of Quito. 



[March, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 117 



This species i? in general appearance somewhat similar to the A. var i u s, 

 from Central America, but that has a relativtly longer body and shorter limbs 

 and head, and lacks the singular nasal appenuuge. In this species the clavi- 

 cles and coracoids are considerably more divergent. It constitutes among 

 Atelopodes, an approximation to Rhinoderma. 



In the writer's examination of the Families of Raniform Anura* the genera 

 Atelopus and Phrynidium were accidentally retained as distinct, as was done 

 by Giinther, the fact having been lost sight of while correcting the proofs that 

 Peters had shown them to be identical in the structure of the auditory appa- 

 ratus. I do not think it probable that they should be retained as distinct on 

 account of the remarkable difference in the degree of ossification of the 

 ethmoid, which I have there pointed out. 



Tlie structure of the sternum in Atelopus longirostris throws much 

 light on that of the genus Hemisus, discussed in the essay above quoted. The 

 latter genus ought probably to have been compared with Phryniscidre rather 

 than Engystoumidffi. I have already shownf that the clavical and coracoid 

 are not in contact in Atelopus, but are connected by a simple longititudinal 

 cartilage. This is the structure in all the Phryniscidfe I have examined, and is 

 quite different from the truly Raniform character of the Dendrobatida and 

 Colostelthidie. This elongation of the confluent epicoracoid cartilages — for 

 such is its homology — reaches its greatest extent in the family, in Ate- 

 lopus longirostris, making a distant approach to what is probably 

 the condition in Hemisus. The anterior transverse element of the latter genu3 

 is therefore probably rather clavicle than coracoid, as suggested above. 



Atelopus l^evis Cope. Phrynicus Ixvis Gthr. Catal. B. M. 

 From the valley of Quito. 



Ranula affinis ? Rana affinis Peters, Monatsberichte, Berlin Acad. 



This may be Peter's species, though the latter is so briefly described that it is 

 not readily identified. Having examined the type in Berlin, I am not prepared 

 to agree with its learned describer that it is a climatal variety of Rana tem- 

 po r a r i a. 



Dr. Steindachner recognizes this genus, :]; but renames it Poklia, and gives 

 it a character of cartilaginous "Stirnbeine" in front, rather than cartilaginous 

 ethmoid. 



The genus Ranula turns out to have simple terminal phalanges as in Rana, 

 therefore three of the species formerly assigned to it by me, which have T- 

 shaped phalanges must be regarded as belonging to another and unnamed, 

 genus. This 1 call Trvpheropsis and refer to T. c h r y s o p r a s i n u s m. as 

 the type. It represents the Hylarana of the Old World, and bears the same 

 relation to Ranula that the former does to Rana. 



Size and form that of Rana c 1 amita n s, but with small merabranura tym- 

 pani — equal to orbit, and 1-5 length of muzzle. Toes palmate to near end of 

 last phalange, to basis of the same of longest toe. Head plane above, 

 fronto-parietals broad without posterior crests, equal between orbits the 

 length of ethmoid cartilage. Canthus rostralis sharp, loreal region concave ; 

 muzzle truncate in profile. Prefrontal bones three times as long as wide. 

 Vomerine teeth in two small fasciculi, exactly between inner nares, nearer to 

 each other than to the latter. Nares considerably less than ostia pharyngea. 

 Outer nostrils half as far from end of muzzle as from orbit. Skin everywhere 

 smooth, except a few minute granulations on posterior pelvic region. Fingers 

 elongate, the inner longer than the second, all with a narrow dermal margin. 

 When extended, the bases of the metacarpals mark the end of the muzzle. 

 The hind limbs extended, nearly measure to the end of the muzzle with the 

 heel. 



1868.] 



• Journ. Ac. Xat. Sci. 1867, 189. 



t Nat. Hist. Review. ISHS. 



X Characterized Proc. Academy, 1866, 129. 




118 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



Length of head (to opposite hinder margin tympanum) 14 | 5 times in 

 length, vent equal width of head behind. 



In. Lin. 



Length head and body 2 6-5 



" of muzzle to orbit , 4-6 



" of fore limb 1 6 



" of hand 8 



<' of hind limb 3 11-5 



" of foot 1 10 



" of tarsus „ 8 



Color above light olive, with a few small black spots on the pelvic region. 

 A black line on caathus rostralis on edge of upper lip and one round tympa- 

 num. Femur and tibia each with two narrow black cross bands. Numerous 

 black spots on groin and front of femur. Femur and tibia behind closely marbled 

 with deep black. Tarsus aud forearm black below. An indistinct yellow band 

 from nostril to axilla. 



Two specimens from the Napo or Upper Maranon. 



This species differs from the R. p a 1 m i p e s of Spi.t, according to the com- 

 plete description of Steindachner in having a considerably shorter and more 

 truncate muzzle. In the last named the nostril is equidistant between muzzle 

 and orbit, and the diameter of the latter is one half the same distance ; in tliis 

 species it is two-thirds. Our species has the thumb longer, and the black 

 marbling of the femoral regions is probably characteristic, as Steindachner 

 does not mention it. 



How it differs from the R. affinis (Rana Peters) the description of the 

 latter author does not furnish the means of determining. The latter has the 

 same obtuse muzzle. 



GYMNOPHIDIA. 



CECILIA PACHYSEMA Giiuther, Proc, Zool. Soc London, 1859, 



Two specimens from Guayaquil. They have 170 — 180 annuli respectively. 

 In the larger the eyes are distinct ; there are eight teeth on each side the 

 upper and six on each side the lower jaw, with five vomero-palatines on each 

 side. In the smaller specimen the eyes are invisible ; in both the narial 

 valvules are present on the tongue. Giinther did not find these, nor eyes, and 

 counted only 5 J 3 .] 3 teeth. He describes blue spots on the sides ; these are 

 accidental and dependent on the condition of the integment. 



SiPHONOPS ANNCLATUS Dum. Bibr«n. 



From Lower Napo or Amazon. 



The whole number of species brought by the Expedition is : 



Crocodilia 1 Ophidia 34 



Testudinata , 3 Batrachia 16 



tSauria , 19 — 



Total 73 



These are from three distinct faunal districts — those of the Western Coast, 

 the Table land of Quito, and of the Eastern Slope of the Andes. The number 

 of species found in each is as follows: 



Western , 27 



Table Land 1(3 



Eastern 44 



In the Western district are five species which occur in Brazil, and one 

 (Chelydra) which extends from Mexico to the cold regions of North America. 

 Two species of the same list occur in Middle Mexico. Of the species from 

 near Quito, four occur in the Western List, and four also found in p]astern 

 Brazil ; one is common in Middle Mexico. Of the species of the Eastern list, 

 the Sauria were chiefly obtained from points within the limits of Equador, and 

 the Ophidia from near the Brazilian frontier. Of the last, twelve are also 



[March, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 119 



Eastern Brazilian ; of the first, and Batracliia, seven are found in the latter 

 region. 



Of generic types none of any extent appear to be restricted to either of the 

 Western regions. Trachyboa with one species does not probably occur out of 

 the West Coast region. Euspondylus, so far as known, is confined to the eleva- 

 ted regions and the adjoining Eastern and Western Slojjes. Teleuraspis is 

 largely developed in Central America and Coniophanes in Mexico. Of the 

 genera of the Eastern district, Centropyx, Teius, Hypsibatus, Hyla, Pithecopus, 

 Hypsiboas, Ranula, Himantodes, Olisthenes and Typhlops, have not been 

 brought either from the Table Land or the Western district. The absence of 

 Hyla has been already noted by Giinther. 



The sources of information respecting the cold blooded vertebrates of Equa- 

 dor are the collections of Eraser, made in the Western district, and identified 

 and described by Giinther in the Proc. Zoological Soc. London, 1859 ; and the 

 collections of the Prussian Consul Reiss, published from time to time by Pe- 

 ters in the Monatsberichte of the Berlin Academy. 



Eraser procured forty-nine species ; to this number Peters added four, and 

 the present enumeration four. The new species of the present list are mostly 

 from the Table Land and Eastern region, and number twenty-four. 



Additional descrij)(ions of Neotropical Reptilia and Batrachia not previously known. 

 TESTUDINATA. 

 DERMATEMYS Gray. 



This genus presents a peculiarity of the skeleton which has never been 

 noticed. This is, that the vertebral elements of the carapace are not pro- 

 longed to the posterior marginal bones as in Emydidse* but terminate so as to 

 allow of three costa; uniting in a median dorsal suture. This character has 

 heretofore been supposed to characterize the Cinosternidte, which also lack the 

 mesosternal bone. In this genus the mesosternal is well developed. Cistudo 

 has, however, the last pair of costal bones joined by suture, and in the same 

 family. Claudius Cope, is another genus possessing the same character. It 

 is a character also of the genus Hydraspis. 



The genus Pelomedusa VVagler I have shownf to possess only two scries of 

 phalanges instead of the usual number, three. It is on this account as separate 

 from the other Pleurodira, as Testudo is from the remainder of the Cryptodira. 

 On this ground I consider it to represent a family hitherto unnoticed — the 

 Pelomedusidfe. 



Sternothaerus Bell possesses an important structure hitherto unobserved. As 

 in the extinct genus Pleurosternura ; the hyostcrnal bones are divided trans- 

 versely, giving ten bones to the plastron instead of eight. It therefore repre- 

 sents a family which I call the Sternothan-ida;, representing among the Pleuro- 

 dira the extinct family Pleurosternidre among the Cryptodira. It may be here 

 mentioned that I have found a fine new Pleurosternuiu — PL pectorale m. — 

 in the cretaceous Green Sand of New Jersey. 



The above facts confirm the supposition of Agassiz that the Pleurodira 

 would be found to constitute a series of families, rather than one family. 



One species of Dermatemys, the D. mavei, is recognized by Dr. Gray as in- 

 habiting Venezuela and Mexico. The same species, according to the same 

 author, has been subsequently named Emys berardi by Prof. Dumeiil. I 

 have not had an opportunity of seeing South American specimens, but the 

 excellent figure and description of Gray render it certain that the individuals 

 from that country on which the species was based really belong to another 

 species from those of Mexico. The collections of the Smithsonian Institution 



* Agassiz states— Contrib. Nat. Hist. U. States i, that in all Emydidae the vertebral series 

 of Viones is uninterrupted, 

 t Proc. Ac. Nat. Sci. Phila., 18G5, p. 185. 



1868.] 




120 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



furnish another species from Belize, whicli I have heretofore identified with 



the same. 



The species may be thus distinguished. 



One gular scute, no intergular ; five inner marginals, the posterior 

 triangular, not in contact vrith the femoral or abdomi- 

 nal. Abdominal narrower than pectoral or femoral. 

 Sternum little emarginate behind. Vertebral scuta broader 

 than long, the median except behind covering a keeled 

 ridge abnormi3. 



One gular, and an intergular behind it; four or five inner margin- 

 als, the posterior in contact with femoral and abdominal ; when 

 only four, the median elongate ; vertebral scuta much longer 

 than broad ; no dorsal keel. Abdominal scuta equal or wider 

 than those adjoining berabdii. 



Two gulars, no intergular ; four inner marginals, the median shorter 

 than the hinder, joined as in the last ; abdominal as in the last ; 

 vertebrals much longer than wide, no dorsal keel. Sternum 

 well emarginate behind mavei. 



Dermatemys ABNORMis Copc, sp. nov. 



The greatest breadth of the vertebral plates exceeds the length of the cos- 

 tals ; the length of the same equals the width of the anterior costals, exceeding 

 the width of the posterior. The form of the head is elongate, and acuminate ; 

 there is a strong basal angle all round the mandible below the cutting edge. 

 Though the carapace measures seven inches in length, the costal bones 

 are only united for half their length, and the hyo- and hyposternal 

 bones are entirely separated from the marginals. This lateral fontanelle 

 is eight lines wide medially. The plastron is well developed, except a very 

 small fontanelle at the middle of the hyo-hyposternal suture. This, with the 

 wider vertebral shields, indicate a young animal, and though there are no signs 

 of immaturity about the head, it doubtless is such. Nevertheless, I cannot 

 suppose the vertebral scutes become as narrow, nor the carapace as fully ossi- 

 fied at maturity, as in the other species, and its distinctness is confirmed by 

 other characters as given. 



Above light brown, below and inner fixces of limbs light yellow. 



Length of plastron 5 in. 9 lin. ; width of same at axillie 3 in. ; at posterior 

 end 11-5 lin. ; total width at groin 5 in. 5 lin. ; length head from behind ear 

 17 1. ; greatest width head 1 in. 



From Belize River, Yucatan. Museum Smithsonian, No. 6545 ; from Dr. 

 Parsons. 



LACERTIL[A. 



PROCTOTRETUS Dum. Bibr. 



Proctoteetus prasinus f'ope, sp. nov., of the group Rhytidodira Gird. 



Head broad, short, vertex and front plane longitudinally and transversely. 

 Canthus rostralis strong, loreal region concave. Nostril just below the edge 

 of the canthus. Scales of head above smooth, angulated. A transverse scale be- 

 hind rostral ; a united pair of supranasals, the larger divided internasals between 

 the smaller longitudinal posterior supranasals. Three pairs frontonasals, the 

 two anterior in contact with canthal row, and sei)arated by four scales ; the 

 posterior largest, and in contact. No superciliary series, except from the 

 frontal backwards; frontal little longer than broad. Occipital (^interparie- 

 tal) small, in contact with superciliary rows, and followed by two plates a 

 little larger. Occipital and temporal regions covered with rather large, smooth 

 scales, those of the latter smaller, and rounded behind. Supraorbitals of ir- 

 regular size, smooth, the three inner larger, little broader than long ; together 

 three rows scarcely separated within hy a series of small scales. Two marginal 



[March, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 121 



rows. Three loreal rows, the lower continued below the suborbital. Labials 

 5 — 6 ; two rows infralabials, the inner shorter, of broader scales, the first pair 

 in contact. Auricular meatus large, no marginal scales. 



Scales of dorsal region small, not larger than ventral, little larger than 

 lateral, not longer than broad, with a keel on the distal half and obtuse mucro. 

 They are in series, which converge upwards and backwards. Sixty-nine series 

 from rump to occiput ; fourteen across the nape. A broad granular band ex- 

 tends from the ears to more than the length of the humerus behind the axilhe. 

 A pair of longitudinal folds extend from above and below the meatus, and 

 unite half-way to the axilla, to which point the single fold extends. Another 

 extends along the side. 



Lateral and abdominal scales smooth, the latter rounded, smooth, occasion- 

 ally slightly notched; gulars entire ; caudal scales small, in whorls, strongly 

 keeled. Extended fore limb reaches -66 to groin ; hind limb to union of side 

 folds of neck. 



In. Lin. Lin. 



Total length (tail mutilated) : 5 11-2 



Length to vent 2 V Length to orbit 2-5 



" axilla 11-5 Width of head 5-.') 



" meatus of ear 1 Lengthofpes 10 



Color above brilliant green, with a double series of black dorsal spots, with 

 angles projecting laterally, which posteriorly meet similar angles from a late- 

 ral series of larger deep black spots. The green continues as a band to orbit. 

 A series of vertical black bars on sides ; limbs green-black, cross-banded ; tail 

 brown-black ringed; top of head black, brown and green specked. Lower jaw 

 black-barred. Belly light green. 



From 603. Museum Comparative Zoology, Cambridge. From Chili. 



LIOCEPHALUS Gray. 



Having had a large number of individuals of this genus at my disposal, as 

 the species are but little known I give the following synopsis. Gray, who 

 gives the fullest list (Catalogue Sauna Brit. Mus. 1845), enumerates five. There 

 are at present fourteen known. 



L Several series supraorbital scales ; no transverse plates. Abdominal 

 scales smooth. 

 L. o r n a t u s Gray, Catal. L. t r a c h y c e p h a 1 u s Dum., Catal. Method. 

 The former from Guayaquil, the latter from Bogota. 



IL Transverse series of plates on the supraorbital region ; abdominal 

 scales smooth. 



a.. Parietals and interparietals united. 

 Supraorbital region scaled in front ; a black spot on 



throat. Gallapagos Is L. grayi. 



a*. Parietals and interparietals distinct ; the 

 former transversely divided. 

 Three pairs frontonasals ; three interparietals ; a black 



spot on throat. Equador L. iridescens. 



ax. Parietals and interparietals distinct ; the 

 former longitudinally divided. 



f3. Four pairs frontonasals (four rows plates 

 across front). 

 Outer parietals larger than inner ; interparietal short, 

 triangular; two rows scales above infralabials; 

 tail crest high. Brown, with many light cross- 

 bars L, e r c m i t u 3 . 



1868.] 9> 




122 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



/?/?. Three pairs frontonasals. 



y. Outer parietals much larger than inner. 

 Top of head smooth ; plates of front wide ; interparie- 

 tal long and narrow ; one row above infralabials. 



Light olive. Bahamas, Cuba L. carinatus. 



yy. Outer parietals narrow, equal inner. 

 L. vittatus Hallow, and L. macropus Cope, both from Cuba. L. 

 schreibersii {Fristonotus schreibersii Gravenhorst, not L. schreibersii Gray 

 = L. vittatus), and L. melanochlorus Cope, from Hayti. 



00. Two pairs of frontonasals. 

 Scales smaller ; temporal scales small, keeled ; of 



front much keeled ; auricular scales elongate ; 



interparietal very small. Hayti L. raviceps. 



Scales larger ; temporals large, smooth ; auriculars 



short, thick ; scales of front little keeled. From 



Hayti L. personatus and L. t r ig e m i n a tu s . 



The last two are much alike in structural features, but differ greatly in 

 coloration ; they do not appear to be sexes of the same animal, as I have seen 

 both (-J* and 9 of the latter. 



III. Transverse series supraorbital plates ; abdominal scales keeled. 



Scales on nape in 5 — 1 — 5 rows ; seven supraorbitals ; frontal scales many, 

 keeled. 



L. h e r m i n i e r i Dum. Bibr., from Martinique. 



I am not acquainted with L. m a c 1 e ay i Gray, from Cuba ; it is probably 

 allied to the L. carinatus and L. vittatus. 



LlOCEPHALUS EEEMITUS CopC, Sp. UOV. 



Head moderately elongate, profile an inclined plane. Front with four cross- 

 rows of plates posterior to supranasals, the posterior smallest ; two pairs of 

 internasals, separated from each other, the anterior from the rostral also ; the 

 posterior pair of the same in line and continuous with the divided frontal. 

 Interparietal very short, the parietals largely in contact behind, the outer twice 

 as wide as the inner. All the scales of head smooth, except the supraorbitals. 

 The latter weakly keeled, six on each side, separated by one row scales from 

 supraorbitals ; also by one row small scales from superciliaries. Parietals 

 bounded externally by two rows larger scales, then minute scales, then medium 

 keeled preauriculars. Auricular scales elongate, four. Postauriculars not 

 granular. Scales above large, eight rows on median nuchal region. Dorsal 

 crest high on tail, elsewhere moderate. Lateral and abdominal scales smaller 

 than dorsal. Scales of lower surfaces entire, the preanals smaller, keeled. 

 The muzzle marks the end of the metacarpus on the extended fore limb, and 

 the front of the orbit the longest toe. Tail moderately compressed. Folds of 

 side of neck strong ; two oblique, one nearly horizontal. Scales of tail shiny, 

 keeled below except at basis. 



Coloration plain. Ground dark olive-brown, with a deep brown dorso- 

 lateral longitudinal shade, connected by numerous indistinct cross-bars, which 

 are light margined behind. Lower surfaces brown, with numerous scattered 

 whitish scales, which are most thickly gathered on the pectoral region. A 

 dark brown spot between eye and ear. 



In. Lin. 



Length from end muzzle to vent 2 55 



" '• to ear 8 



" of hind foot 13-5 



Width of head 6 



One specimen of this species was sent to the Smithsonian Institution by W. 

 J. Rasin, from the island of Navassa, W. I., which lies to the south-west of St. 

 Domingo, in line with Jamaica. 



[March, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 123 



LiOCEPHALUs scHREiBERSii. Pristonolus schreibirsU Gravenhorst, Nova Acta 

 Curios, xviii, 739. Tab. 



This species is not anywhere described in the English language. I therefore 

 append the following, which I took from specimens in the Mus. Leyden : 



Crest very long, equal ; scales longer than high, other sc. small, keels not 

 prominent. 7 — 1 — 7 sc. on nape ; on rump, 7 or 8 — 1 — 7. Smaller lateral sc. 

 in a not wide band. Abd. sc. in 23 rows, rhombic. Sc. from ear to shoulder 

 granular ; tail compressed. Extended hind limb, near to ear. Interparietal 

 narrow ; 8 supraorb. Supercil. not separated. 3 pair frontonas., the poster. 

 often double ; 4 in the median row ; the frontonas. as broad as long. Head 

 sc. keeled. 



Olive-brown ; with or without traces of a light band on each side of back, 

 which are most distinct on tail ; sides with a band of brown speckles. Green 

 below, with 4 or 6 cross-bands of blue-white bordered spotlets ; obsolete ante- 

 riorly. Bluish on gular region. Head lighter, uniform ; feinus with two transv. 

 series of spots? Fem. with 2 longit..dors. stripes, and a distinct one on lower 

 part of each side. Transverse angulated brown bands behind white border, 

 from side to side. A yellow band on post, face of femur. Dors, crest very 

 small, scarcely on tail. Head sc. broad, keeled. 



CELESTUS Gray. 



Catal. Lizards Brit. Mus., 117. 



This genus, in my opinion, embraces the Diploglossinse, with normal extre- 

 mities, in which the frontonasal plates are fused together in one shield; it 

 therefore includes most of the species of Diploglossus, as understood by Gray. 

 Diploglossus was originally based by Wiegmann on D. m o n o t r o p i s and 

 D. fas ci at us, species in which the frontonasals are quite distinct. Both 

 are from the South American continent ; the first-named is the type of Camilia 

 [C. jamaicensis) of Gray. The correspondence of the Smithsonian Institution 

 has procured numerous additions to this genus, which are here added : 



A. Internasal plates confluent with frontonasals. 



I. Scales in 32 — 6 rows. 



Two frontals, one above the other ; two postnasals do. ; 



scales all 8 — 10 keeled; olive, sides black-spotted, steindachneri Cope. 



One frenal and postnasal ; scales smooth in front, keels 

 increasing to 16 on tail ; sides and limbs black ; 

 above olive, the scales black-edged chalyb^us Cope. 



Keels of the scales eight to ten ; one postnasal, two fre- 

 nals, both on labials ; meatus of ear large : anterior 

 limb two-thirds head. Brown, with blackish band 

 on upper part of each side pleii Dum. Bibr. 



Keels of the scales eleven, all equal, on posterior re- 

 gions ; anterior scales smooth, together in 36 rows ; 

 nasal plate extending to rostral ; two loreals, both 

 higher than long ; ear minute, head and limbs very 

 short, latter -75 former, and -2 from axilla to groin; 

 a blackish lateral band above, cross-lined before, 

 spotted behind dbgener Cope. 



Keels of the scales fifteen, all equal ; one postnasal, 

 two frenals, both on labials ; ear meatus small. 

 Serpentiform, fore limb five-sixths head. Brown, 

 with dark lateral band above sagr.e Coct. 



II. Scales in 41 — 2 rows. 



Keels 14; none larger; head narrow, sharp, muzzle 

 longer than interorbital width ; front plane ; parie- 

 tal separated from supraorbitals by two plates, 

 loreal longer than high ; gray, sides black, cross- 

 banded ; loreal higher than long phoxinus Cope. 



1868.] 




124 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Keels 15, a median stronger ; front convex; distance be- 

 tween orbits in front equal length muzzle ; both 

 loreals higher than long ; one plate between parie- 

 tal and supraorbitals ; brown, a deep brown dorso- 

 lateral band, and numerous longitudinal series of 

 brown spots on the back weinlandii Cope. 



Keels 25, none larger ; head flat, acute, muzzle longer 

 than interorbital width ; many close, short bay 

 stripes; loreal higher than long badius Cope. 



Keels 25 to 35, one median much stronger; head short- 

 ter, obtuse, muzzle equal width between eyes ; uni- 

 color, with vertical lateral bars ; two loreals, longer 

 than high stenurus Cope. 



III. Scales in 49 — 51 rows. 



Keels 34 — 8, the median stronger on dorsal region ; form 

 stout, fore-limb one-third longer than head ; tail 

 much compressed ; yellow or light brown, with 

 about fifteen brown cross-bands occidous Shaw. 



Keels 17, scales with a cross elevation and marginal de- 

 pression, making rows of pits ; head wide, muzzle 

 short, equal interocular width ; tail cylindric ; 

 brown, with 18 cross-bars on dorsal region impressus Cope. 



Keels 19, equal, scales plane ; head elongate, narrow, 

 muzzle longer than interocular width ; brown, with 



14 cross-bars on back ?striat0S Gray. 



AA. Internasal plates separate, small. 

 Scales in twelve longitudinal series on the dorsal re- 

 gion, with fifteen stripe and a weak median keel ; 

 body anguiform, anterior limb long as head. Pale, 

 Avith numerous short longitudinal reddish bands. 



Otherwise as C. c ci d u u s ." Dum. Bibr owenii D. B. 



Species unknown to the writer: C. hewardii Gray, Catal. 1. c, from 



Jamaica, and C. macrolepis Gray, 1. c, West Indies. 



Synopsis of Species. 



C. STEiNDACHNERi Copc. Diploglossus Cope, Proc. Ac. N. Sci. Phila. 1864. 

 Vera Cruz, Mexico. Mas. Smithsonian. 



C. CHALYBJEus Cope. Diploglossus Cope, 1. c. 1866. 

 Vera Cruz, Mexico. Mus. A. N. S. ; Smithsonian. 



0. PLEii m. Diploglossus Dum. Bibr., v, 605. Do. (oneyda) Gray, Catal. 

 Hab. — Martinique (Mus. Paris). 



Celestus degener Cope, sp. nov. 



This is the most Seps-like of the genus, having shorter and weaker limbs 

 than the C. s a g r je , and a shorter and broader head. The toes are very short, 

 though of the normal number j it perhaps will approach the genus Sauresia 

 Gray. 



Width between fronts of orbits 1'5 times in length of muzzle anterior to 

 same. Length of head to middle postparietal plate equal width of same at ear 

 openings. Width of frontal plate behind greater than length of the same. 

 Supraorbitals five, separated by two scales from parietal. One preocular ; two 

 loreals, both higher than long; an elongate oblique postnasal in contact with 

 anterior supranasal. Nasal meeting rostral by a suture. Eight upper labials, 

 fifth and sixth supporting a long suborbital, which is convex below. Two 

 rows of infralabials, the upper of longer, lower of wider scales. Toes short; 

 behind, fourth much shorter than first. Whitish below ; chin reticulated with 



[March, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 125 



brown. Sides with longitudinal brown lines, the upper confluent, much darker, 

 and with a zig-zag upper margin. Above, fawn brown, with seventeen cross 

 lines to middle of back, and small brown spots in quincunx behind them. Tail 

 with a deep brown band on each side. 



In. Lin. In. Lin. 



Length to vent 3 2.25 Length fore limb 4-6 



" to axilla 11.75 " hind limb 7- 



" to ear 5-6 



A single specimen of this interesting species is contained in a collection 

 from Porto Rico, West Indies, sent to the Smithsonian Institution by George 

 Latimer, correspondent at that island. 



C. SAGR^. Diploglossus Cocteau, Hist. Isle Cuba, Dum. Bibr. v, 602. 

 Hab. — The whole of Cuba. Mus. A. N. Sci.; Smithsonian. 



Celestus PHOxiNus Cope, sp. nov. 



A fusiform species, the body rather stout and flattened, the outlines tapering 

 gradually to end of muzzle and tail. Head flattened, with strong canthus ros- 

 tralis, and concave loreal region. Postnasal and postloreal longer than high : 

 preloreal higher than long. Five supraorbitals ; scales behind postparietals 

 not larger than those of the nape. Dorsolateral angle strong on scapular 

 region. The eighth upper labial is the first one angulated above ; rostral plate 

 broad and low. The limbs, when pressed to the sides, fail to meet by the 

 length of the hand. Keels of the scales strong. Tail slightly compressed. 



Above light gray; sides from orbit to groin dark brown, with regular ver- 

 tical brown bars, which are margined behind by a close series of light spots. 

 Two series of small brown spots on each side the dorsal region, the median 

 stronger on the nape, all vanishing behind. Below immaeulate ; limbs with 

 brown light-edged cross-bars. 



In. Lin. In. Lin. 



Length to vent 3 3- Length to orbit 3- 



" to axilla 1 2-8 Greatest width head 4-8 



" forelimb 8-6 Length hind limb 1 0-1 



This elegant species was found by Dr. D. F. Weinland, near Jeremie, Hayti, 

 and was placed by him in the Museum Comparative Zoology, Cambridge, 

 Mass., in care of Prof. Agassiz. 



Celestus weinlandii Cope, sp. nov. 



This species is near the last, but is less regularly fusiform ; the body, and 

 especially the head, are less depressed; the canthus rostralis is depressed and 

 the loreal region plane. Both loreals higher than long, and the seventh 

 upper labial is the first angulated above. Rostral deeper, rounded above. 

 Five supraorbitals, separated from parietals by but one plate besides fronto- 

 parietals. Auricular opening small. Limbs when pressed to sides meet. 

 Larger median carina of scales wanting on those of anterior nape and tail. 

 Vent with three cross rows, rather larger scales in front. 



Below the dorsolateral brown band is another formed of spots in line ; they 

 continue with a vertical series of brown spots on the sides, Ground above 

 dark brown ; sides of neck and gular region brown-lined. Limbs with brown 

 reticulations. 



In. Lin. In. Lin. 



Length to vent 3 6-8 Length fore limb 9-7 



" to axilla 1 4- " hind limb 1 2-4 



" to orbit 3- Width head 5-9 



This species is found on Gonave Island, on the western side of Hayti. Mus. 

 Smithsonian. From T. Younglove. Named in honor of Dr. F. Weinland, M.D., 

 ot Frankfort o. M., who has contributed much to the history of the Reptilia 

 of Hayti. 



1868.] 




126 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Celestts badius Cope, sp. nov. 



This species, tliougli larger than either of the preceding, possesses a more 

 acute muzzle; the front is plane as in D. phoxinus, but the snout lightly 

 convex, though less so than in D. weinlandii and with obtuse canthus 

 rostralis and plane loreal region. 



The (sixth or) seventh upper labial is the first angulated above, while the 

 suborbital and lower postorbital plates are shorter and deeper than in the pre- 

 ceding species ; both loreals higher than long. There are two plates besides 

 the fronto-parietal between parietal and the posterior of the five supraorbitals. 



The limbs are short, and when pressed to the side fail to meet by the length 

 of the hind foot. The digits of the fore foot are relatively shorter and weaker 

 than in the two species preceding. 



The eye fissure is small, measuring 2-5 times from its hinder margin to the 

 ear ; but twice in the D. w e i n 1 a n d i i ; it is less than double the diameter of 

 the meatus. Transverse series of scales, from groin to above middle of meatus, 

 ninety-four ; those of the tail keeled like the rest. Three rows larger preanal 

 scales. 



In. Lin. In. Lin, 



Total length (?tail reproduced.) 8 Leaigth fore limb 9- 



Length to vent 4 !• " hind limb 13-5 



" to orbit 4-5 " hind foot.. 6-3 



Greatest width head 7-5 



Ground color cream, almost obscured above by many longitudinal bands 

 and lines of bright bay ; these are more or less broken up, of irregular width, 

 and often confluent. Top of the head and sides closely spotted with bay, on 

 the latter region in a longitudinal direction or in lines directed obliquely 

 downwards and forwards. A dorsolateral band of ground color extends from 

 superciliary region, more or less completely to the iliac, and is bay margined 

 below and sometimes above. Throat and belly uniform yellow. Limbs bay 

 red with white spots. 



From Island of Navassa, W. L From W. J. Rasin. 



The collection sent to the Smithsonian Institution from this small Island 

 consists of the following species : 



Typhlops sulcatus Cope, Metopocerus cornutus Wagl., 



Ungalia pardalis Gosse, Celestus badius Cope, 



Liocephalus eremitus Cope. 



Celestus stenurus Cope. Diploglossvs Cope, Proc. A. N. Sci. Phil. 1862. 



From near Jeremie, St. Domingo. Mus. Compar. Zoology, Cambridge. 



I append a description of another specimen, referred to this species with 

 doubt. 



This is a large species with broad head, and short muzzle, the latter being 

 shorter than the width between anterior margins of eye fissures. First upper 

 labial angulated above the seventh ; suborbital and lower postorbital elongate, 

 narrowed. Nasal very small ; preloreal higher than long, loreal nearly square. 

 Front convex, canthus obtuse. Eye fissure one-half distance to meatus of ear. 



Eighty transverse rows scales from above meatus to groin. Supranasal 

 plates small, narrow, the posterior nearly divided by the anterior (right) angle 

 of the elongate internasal. Scales with from 26 to 35 keels, a median one 

 rather stronger on some. Two scales bound the parietals in front besides 

 the fronto-parietals. Four rows large scales in front of vent. The limbs 

 pressed to the sides nearly meet. 



Light-brown, with three rows of small subquadrate dark-brown spots on the 

 median dorsal region. Limbs brown with light spots arranged in indistinct 

 cross-bars. Head above light-brown with darker shades ; labial plates above 

 and below broadly brown margined. Below immaculate. 



Length to vent 5 in. 9-7 lin. To orbit 51 lin. Width head behind 9-6 lin. 



A number of digits in this single specimen exhibit a loss of the claws, others 



[March, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 127 



have lost one, two or three phalanges. This may have a natural cause, since 

 the allied genus Panolopus is deprived of these members entirely, though with 

 well developed limbs. 



From Gonave Island, near Hayti. From Thos. Younglove. The reptiles 

 found by this correspondent in this Island are : 



Homalochilus fasciatus Fisch., Diploglossus weinlandii Cope, 



Dromicus parvifrons Cope. {D. pro- Diploglossus ?stenurus Cope, 



teiius Jan), Ameiva chrysolffima Cope, 



Uromacer catesbyi D. B., Trachycephalus marraoratus D. B., 



Uromacer oxyrhynchus D. B., Lithodytes lineatus Grav., 



Liocephalus. 



Celestus occiduus Gray, Catal. Lacerta occiduus Shaw. Diploglossus Shawii 

 Dum. Bibr., Erp. Gen. v, 590. 

 Jamaica. Mus. Smithsonian. 



Cblestus impressus Cope, spec. nov. 



This is an elongate species with a tail cylindric for its proximal half, a little 

 depressed at base ; the body is quite cylindric and the limbs short. The ear 

 is large and the head abruptly widened at the temples. The muzzle is short 

 and flat, and the superciliary regions are slightly elevated above the frontal 

 plane. Loreal region grooved. Ten upper labials, of which the eighth rises 

 between suboculars. Postnasal distinct, prefrenal much higher than long, 

 frenal square, two preoculars. Scales with equal keels, their hinder halves 

 depressed. 



The limbs appressed to the sides fail to meet by the length of the anterior 

 without the hand. 



In. Liu. In. Lin. 



Length to posterior edge ear... 10-2 Length fore limb 11-66 



" to axilla 19.75 " hind limb 15-3 



" to vent 3 8-'75 " tail (reproduced) 5 9- 



Color above olivaceous, below yellowish. Back and sides crossed by about 

 18 narrow brown bars, which are three times broken and alternating on each 

 side the middle line. Tail ci'oss-lined, throat and breast cross-banded less dis- 

 tinctly. Lateral plates, a short band behind orbit, and four quadrate spots 

 above throat and axilla, deep brown. 



Two specimens in Mus. Academy from Jamaica, collected by Charles B. 

 Adams. 



Celestus striatus Gray, Ann. Xat. Hist, ii, 288. Catal. Brit. Mus. Diploglossus 

 diftii Dum., Bibr. v, 596. 

 Jamaica. Mus. Academy, Phila. 



Celestus owenii m. Diploglossus Dum., Bibr., do. [Oneyda) Gray, Catal. B. M. 

 Habitat. — Unknown. (Mus. College Surgeons, London.) 



AMEIVA Cuvier. 



Ameiva chrysol^ma Cope, sp. nov. 



Char. — Twelve series abdominal plates : ^o horny tubercles on the heel ; 

 median and lateral gular scales equal. Frontal undivided, supraorbitals four. 

 Teeth mostly bicuspid. Olive with numerous series of white spots, sometimes 

 indistinct on dorsal region. Gular fold black, throat yellow ; belly green and 

 yellow. 



Description. — One of the larger species. Four parietals and one interparietal, 

 subequal. Two posterior supraorbitals bounded hj granules within ; frontal in 

 front nearly broad as long ; prefrontals longer than broad. Nostril in nasal 

 plate near suture. A postnasal, one very large frenal, two preoculars and two 

 suboculars. Labials 6 — V, the anterior in both series very narrow. Infralabi- 

 als eight in lower series, three iu upper behind, all separated from labials by 



1868.] 




128 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



granules. Gular fold margined broadly with granules, with three larger series 

 of hexagonal scales. 



Brachials rather small, in seven rows above, and two below, not separated 

 from antebrachials by granules, but joining an area of small scales in seven rows 

 above, and ending in one row of broad and one of narrow antebrachials be- 

 low. Postbrachials small, three rows larger. Tibial plates in four rows, two 

 on under face, the outer of seven plates, of which the third and fourth are very 

 large. Outer toes just exceeding inner. Femoral pores twenty. 



In. Lin. In. Lin. 



Total length 16 9. Length to orbit 8- 



Length to vent 5 5- " of fore limb 2 1- 



'• to edge collar 1 10.5 " of hind limb 3 9- 



" of anterior claw 3- " ofhindfoot 1 10-5 



Olive-green with five series of small white spots on each side, and seven on 

 the dorsal region. The latter tend in a smaller specimen to form two pairs of 

 incomplete dorsal stripes. Upper arm and hind leg with small white spots. 

 One or two series white spots on the lateral abdominal scales. Latter black- 

 ish olive-yellow margined. 



The anterior claws of this species are particularly large, and slightly curved. 

 There are twenty teeth on each maxillary bone, which are nearly all bicuspid, 

 the longest cusp posterior. In one individual there are mingled with these, 

 posteriorly, three tricuspid. 



Two specimens sent to Mus. Smithsonian from Gonave Island, on the west- 

 ern side of the Island of Hayti, by Thos. Younglove. 



OPHIDIA. 



TYPHLOPS Schn. 

 Typhlops sulcatus Cope. 



This species exhibits most of the characters of the T. 1 u m b r i c a 1 i s. These 

 are, the presence of a preocular plate, the obtnseness of the muzzle plates, four 

 upper labials, a nasal entirely divided by the suture through the nostril, and 

 twenty longitudinal rows of scales. 



It diffVrs in the much greater prolongation and depression of the muzzle, 

 and hencte more slender form of the rostral and nasal, and greater prolonga- 

 tion backwards of the upper part of the preocular. In the existence of a strong 

 groove along the sutures of these plates, giving the muzzle a trilobate outline 

 from above. In similar deep grooves along the upper sutures of the labials and 

 around the small frontal superciliary and interparietal scales. These scales 

 are not larger than those of the body ; a pair in place of the parietals are 

 larger. The body is more slender than in T. 1 um b r i cal i s , the length of 

 the tail entering it 44-1 times. Tail short, acuminately conic. The length of 

 the muzzle beyond the mouth equals from the nostrils to the opposite side of 

 the rostral plate, or one-half the tail's length. 



Color pale yellowish-brown ; a darker brown line in the middle of each row 

 of scales, on the anterior third of the length. 



Total length 6 in. 5-2 1. ; of tail 1-75 1. ; greatest diameter 2 lines. 



One specimen in Mus. Smithsonian from Navassa Island, southwest from St. 

 Domingo. 



UNGALIA* Gray. 



Tropidophis Bibr. Notopkis Hallowell. 



Thirty-five individuals, representatives of this genus before me, indicate 

 a greater number of species than are at present recognized by naturalists. 

 Some of the additional ones have been already named and imperfectly de- 

 scribed. 



All that are known are from the Bahamas, Cuba, Navassa and Jamaica, a 

 remarkably local distribution. They are distinguished as follows : 



* The correct spelling of this name is probably Ungual ia. 



[March, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 129 



I. Scales in twenty-seven rows, keeled. 

 Gastrosteges from 200 to 20 9 ; five or six lateral rows 



smooth ; yellow with black end of tail melanura. 



Gastrosteges 169 — 189, nine or more lateral rows smooth ; 



brown with rows of brown spots ; tail not black.... pardalis. 



II. Scales in twenty-one — five rows. 

 a.. Scales keeled, a larger dorsal row ; 



Gastrosteges 168; scales in twenty three rows; gray 



with small dorsal spots cana. 



a.m. Scales smooth, dorsal rows equal. 

 Short, stout, gastrosteges 142 — 150; head lanceolate; 

 scales in 23 — 25 rows ; brown or gray with usually 



dorsal and lateral spots maculata. 



Long slender, head small lanceolate; gastrosteges 202 — 

 5 ; scales 21 — 3 rows; yellow with nearly complete 



broad brown rings or half rings semicincta. 



Long slender, head broad short; gastrosteges 211, scales 



25 rows; brown with six rows of black spots dipsadina. 



The normal number of postoculars in this genus is three, but variations 

 are not unfrequent. Thus a specimen of U. maculata has but two postoc- 

 ulars on each side, another has two on one side only. Another has a com- 

 plete circle of five scales round the eye on one side, and three postoculars on 

 the other. I have seen no specimen with two preoculars as in the specimen 

 figured by Jan as T. disfinctus, but as the species does not appear otherwise 

 different from U. maculata, I suspect that this character also falls within the 

 range of the variations of the latter. 



Ungalia melanura Gray, Boa, Schlegel. 



1 here are two varieties of this species. 



a. A narrow brown vertebral line; crown not spotted; [Wotophis bicarinalux 

 Hallow.), three specimens from Cuba, two of them from the east ; one with 

 two keels on the vertebral row, the others with one. 



/?. [Boa melanura Schleg.) Two dorsal series of brown and gray spots, top 

 of head much spotted. Five sp. from Cuba. 



Ungalia pardalis. Boa Pardalis Gosse, Ungalia maculata Gosse. 



Var. a. Shorter, gastrosteges 169; eight rows of spots, belly blotched. 

 One sp. from Jamaica (Adams coll.) Smithsonian, 5763. 



/?. U. bucculenta Cope. Larger, gastrosteges 186 — 9; four rows of 

 spots, dorsal pairs much confluent, belly specked ; head swollen behind. Four 

 specimens from Navassa Id. Mus. Smithsonian. The largest of these 

 measures 25 inches in length. 



Ungalia cana Cope, sp. nov. 



This species is intermediate between the U. pardalis and U. m a c \i I a t a 

 in many respects. Superior labials ten, all higher than long ; orbitals 1 — 3. 

 Internasals longer than broad ; prefrontals broader than long ; postfrontals 

 pentagonal, nearly equal sided. Temporals 3 — 3 — 4. Scales, except six exter- 

 nal rows, weakly carinate. Muzzle narrow, acuminate, head rather wide be- 

 hind ; diameter of eye a little over twice in length muzzle. Total length 13 

 in. 9 lin. ; tail 16-5 lines. General form neither very stout nor slender. 



Color gray brown above, below yellowish gray, densely punctulated at 

 middle of gastrosteges. A series of tolerably approximated transverso-dorsal 

 spots, which are short, and little distinct, in some specimens almost wanting. 

 On each side on the third row of scales is a series of black dots two or three 

 scales apart. A brown band from eye to side of neck, the labials below it 

 yellowish ; mental region yellowish. 



Several specimens from the Bahama Island of Inagua sent to the Smith- 

 sonian. 



1868.] 




130 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Ungalia macdlata Gray. Tropidophis Bibron. Tropidophis distinctus Jan. 



Elenco et Icongraphie. 



«. Two rows large spots on each side, the upper series usually confluent ; 

 a large series each side the vent extending half across it ; eight specimens 

 from Cuba. 



/?. Two rows small spots on each side, those of the dorsal rows separate; 

 no large blotches on the belly. Three sp. from New Providence ; Bahamas. 



y. Gray without spots or with traces only. Three sp. from New Provi- 

 dence. 



In this species two or three labials may enter the orbit irrespective of the 

 number of postoculars. 



Ungalia semicincta. Ung. mactilaia, var. semicincta Oundlach and Peters, 



Monatsberichte Preuss. Acad. 1864, 388. 



This is a handsome and distinct species, described as a variety as above, 

 most probably, though the authors have not noted its essential peculiarities 

 of proportions of body and the number of scuta. 



Three specimens (2 Smithsonian, 574G) from Eastern Cuba. Chas. Wright. 



Ungalia oiPSAOiNACope, sp. nov. 



This is a long slender species, much compressed, with slender neck, 

 and small flat and broad head ; its form is thus more like that of Dipsas than 

 any other of the genus. The anterior upper labials are larger than 

 in the other species, the second reaching to the preocular on one 

 side, and within a hair's breadth on the other. Ten labials on one side, nine 

 on the other, two only in orbit. Oculars 1 — 3; temporals 3 — 3 — 4; inter- 

 nasals and prefontals of equal length ; occipitals short, separated by two 

 scales. Eight dorsals, and the basal series of scales larger than the lateral 

 scales, some of the latter slightly roof-shaped. Two pairs of longer genials. 

 The eye is larger than in the other species, its diameter entering the length 

 of the muzzle 1-5 times. The width of the head behind nearly equal its 

 length from the end of the muzzle to near the end of the occipitals. The 

 diameter of the body an inch behind the head, one half that of the thickest 

 part of the body. Urosteges 42. 



Color above a deep reddish brown, with a row of black spots on each side 

 the median line about two scales wide, and always distinct, and two alterna- 

 ting rows of smaller black spots on each side. A series of blackish cross- 

 bars on the belly, two and three scuta apart, sometimes divided and alterna- 

 ting, invade the first row of scales ; no spots for two inches behind the chin. 

 Head dark above, with a darker spot on the occipital region. Ground color 

 below, yellowish brown. 



Total length 15-5 in. ; of tail 2 in. ; of gape 6 lin. 



Habitat. — Cuba, section unknown. Discovered by my friend Prof. Poey, 

 of Havana, who sent a specimen to the Museum of the Academy of Natural 

 Sciences. 



COLOPHRYS Cope, gen. nov. 



Teeth equal. Anal shield simple, subcaudals divided. Two pair genials 

 and frontals ; no preocular or superciliary, the vertical forming the eyebrow; 

 two nasals. Scales smooth. 



CoLOPHRYS RHODOGASTEE CopC, Sp. UOV. 



Scales broad, in seventeen longitudinal 

 series. Head slightly contracted, obtuse, 

 depressed. Rostral shield visible from 

 above; prefrontals moderate, their com- 

 mon suture little less than that of post- 

 frontals ; nasals large, as long as loreal, 



[March, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



131 



postnasal longer. Vertical (frontal) angulated in 

 front, more acutely behind, where it has two su- 

 tures on each side, owing to its confluence with 

 the superciliaries — the exterior being the posterior 

 sutures of the latter. Parietals much longer than 

 wide, only margining anteriorly the whole of the 

 narrow single postorbital. Labials six, all higher 

 than long except the sixth, which only is separated 

 from the parietals by a single temporal. Second superior labial in contact 

 with postnasal and more with boreal; third and fourth with orbit and post- 

 ocular. Inferior labials seven, five in contact with genials. Scales in contact 

 with parietal, 1 temporal, 4j squamae. Gastrosteges 144, urosteges 30; in 

 a second specimen 140 — 41. Length of largest specimen 12 inches ; tail 2 in. 

 1-5 lines. 



Color of upper surfaces a rich slate brown, very iridescent ; lower surfaces, 

 including first series of scales with labial and rostral shield, red orange. 



Three specimens of this species were brought by Dr. Van Patten from the 

 elevated country in the neighborhood of the city of Guatemala. It bears con- 

 siderable resemblance to the Catostoma chalybaeum Wagler, but besides 

 the lack of superciliary shields, its eye is smaller and the head more com- 

 pressed. In the C. chalybaeum there are but six inferior labials, of 

 which four margin the genials ; it has also shorter nasals, and a vertical 

 more truncate anteriorly. 



CATOSTOMA Wagler. 



Catostoma nasale Cope, sp. nov. 



This species has, like that preceding and that 

 following, seventeen rows of scales, of which those 

 on the posterior part of the body and tail are 

 weakly keeled, thus differing from the C. ch aly- 

 b ae u m where theyare smooth. It also differs much 

 from the same in the elongated form of the head 

 and the great disparity in size between the pre- 

 and postfrontal shields. In this species the former 

 are less than one-fourth the latter in longitudinal 

 extent, and about half in the transverse. The su- 

 praorbitals are very small and subtriangular, the 

 vertical broader than long, and what is unusual, 

 as much angulated anteriorly as posteriorly. Pa- 

 rietals longer than broad, the anterior margin 

 touching the postocular and superciliary. Supe- 

 rior labials eight, the last only separated from pa- 

 rietals by a temporal, which is large in two, small 

 in one specimen. First labial very small, third 

 longer than high. Inferior labials seven, four in 

 contact with genials. Seventeen rows of scales, 



which are small and more crowded above the vent than in any other species. 



Gastrosteges in three specimens 131 — 3 — 4 ; urosteges in the same 25, 30. 

 Color above, including labial region and chin, iridescent slate brown ; 



belly and gular region pale yellow. Length of largest specimen 11 in. 1-5 



lines ; tail 2 in. 



This species is probably nearly allied to the C. s i eb ol d i i of Jan, of 



which but few peculiarities are described. Jan's account of the scutellation 



indicates a more elongate species no doubt distinct; the scuta vary from g. 



146—154, u. 34—8. 



Several specimens from near the city of Guatemala, presented to the 



Smithsonian Institution by Dr. Van Patten. Mus. Ac. Nat. Sci. Phila. 



1868.] 




132 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



RHADIN.EA Cope. 



The genus Rhadintea is nearly coextensive with Henicognathiis Jan, and 

 Ablabes Giinther. Ablabes of Dum. Bibr. was, however, established on the 

 Coronella rufula of Schlegel. which has the prolonged series of gastric 

 hypapophjses, and is therefore quite different, while Henicognalhus is 

 characterized by a peculiar structure of the mandible, which so far as I am 

 aware occurs in only one American species, the H. a n n u I a t u s D. B. Conse- 

 quently the majority of species attached to this genus belong to Rhadinjiea, 

 as the E. melanocephala D. B. etc. In the description of this last 

 species, three are mingled, as I have ascertained both from a reading of the 

 same, and from an examination of the originals in Mus. Paris. One of these 

 is our R. obtusa, the other is the true R. m e 1 a n o c e p h a 1 a, which 

 should be described as follows, and the third is a species as yet undescribed, 

 which I call Lygophis n i c a g u s Cope. DumiSril and Bibron give both the 

 Island of Guadaloupe and Brazil as habitats of their species. I suspect, 

 however, that the specimen of R. obtusa was accidentally introduced into 

 the jar containing the other two, and that it is confined to South America, 

 where it is not uncommon. It is figured by Jan in his Iconographie, as the 

 second specimen ofR. melanocephala. His first specimen of the same 

 as figured, is our Lygophis n i c a g u s, a serpent with a diacranterian denti- 

 tion. 



The true R. m e 1 a n o c e p h a 1 a is probably confined to Guadaloupe and 

 the neighboring islands. Its description has been so mingled with those of 

 the two oiher species as to require a rediscription. It is to be regretted that 

 this, the type of the species, should not have been figured in the beautiful 

 work of Jan and Sordelli. 



Rhadin'.ea melanocephala. Enicognathus vielanocephalns D. and B., part. 



Head broader and shorter. Common pre- and postfrontal suture 2^ times 

 in length, from vertical ant. sut. to end occip. suture, and equal diam. eye. 

 Vertical a little longer than occip. Common sut. occip.= anterior sut. occip. ! 

 Postfront. descending low on (sides of) loreal seg. Loreal longer than 

 high, 8 and 9 sup. lab., 4 and 5 or 4? 5 and 6 in orbit; of the 3 behind the 

 5th or 6th — 1st is higher than long, 2d longer than high, 3d and last of all 

 twice as high as long. Temporals 2 | 2 | 2 | the infer, of 1st row between pe- 

 nult, and antepenult, labials. Yellow band round canthus rostralis and upper 

 part of rostr. plate edge of supcil. and across post, part of supcil. and vert. ; 

 brown area enclosed. Occips. brown, connected by long, line with broad 

 brown collar yellow edged, which is 6 scales long. Yellow vertebr. band on me- 

 dian row sc. with occasional round brown spot on a single scale, small round 

 spot on end gastrosteges. Labials yellow, edged above with brown. Tail 10''. 

 Total 32'' 5'". 



From Guadaloupe. Mus. Paris. 



LYGOPHIS (Fitz.) Cope. 



Lygophis nicagos Cope. Enicogyiathus rnelanocepfialus Jan, Iconographie Livr. 



xvi. Tab. 1, fig. 4, (not of Dum. Bibr.) 



Length of coram, suture of pre- and postfront. one-third dist. from anter. 

 suture vertic. to end of comm. sut. of occipitals. Vert, long, sides straight, 

 converg., as long as comm. sut. occip. Occip. long, a little divaricate at tips. 

 Diam. eye = comm. suture pre- and postfronts. ; 7 sup. lab. ; 3, 4, 5 in orbit ; 

 7th largest, higher than long, 8th longer than high. Loreal higher than long. 

 Temp. 1 I 2, 17 r. sc. Below yellow, immaculate, near end of gastrost. a 

 longit. spot, forming together longitud. line. Above this line brown, 

 darker to 4th row of sc, forming band with numerous light points mixed ; and 

 on 8, 9, 10 rows where a median longitud. band is formed with undnlatory 

 edges and varied with whitish points. On anter. part body the intermediate 



[March, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 133 



pale lateral band crossed by vertical brown bars. Dark spot on nape and 

 middle of occips., which are bordered all round with pale and have a pair 

 pale spots in middle (Tropidonotus style.) Superciliar. with a posterior bor- 

 der. Tail V^ 1^^\ Total 36^^ 3'^^ 



XENODON Boie. 

 A review of the species of this genus is given by Giinther in Ann. Mag. N. 

 ' History, 1863, 353, in which he enumerates six species. He omits the East 

 Indian species, and places them in Tropidonotus in his volume on the Reptiles 

 of British India, — an arrangement which I had long thought necessary, on ac- 

 count of the hypapophyses of the posterior vertebras of the latter (vide Proc. 

 Acad. 1864). Jan places Liophis bicinctus of Dum. Bibr. with Xenodon 

 gi g a s D. B., a closer approximation to nature than any other arrangement. 

 He, however, regards them as a genus distinct from Xenodon, the truth of 

 which position I doubt, and refer them both to Xenodon. The species of the 

 latter genus will then be as follows, two not previously known being added: 



I. An orbital ring of scales. 

 X.bicinctus. X.gigas Dum. Bibr. 



II. One labial entering the orbit. 

 X. irregularis Gthr. 



III. Two labials entering orbit, 

 o. Eight superior labials. 



/?. Anal bifid. 

 X. severusL. X. neovidii Gthr. 



jiff. Anal entire. 

 X. colubrinus Gthr. X. suspectus Cope, sp. nov. X.angustiros- 

 tr is* Peters. 



rtA. Seven superior labials. 

 X. rhabdocephalus Boie. 



I have before me, of X. g i g a s two sp., X. severus five sp., X. neo- 

 vidii one sp., X. colubrinus three sp., X. suspectus one sp., X. 

 angustirostris four sp. 



Xenodon suspectus Cope. 



Scales in nineteen longitudinal rows, in transverse series and very imbri- 

 cate. Body rather slender, compressed, head distinct ovate, plane in profile, 

 the muzzle not depressed or arched. End of muzzle not projecting; eye 

 large, contained 1^ times in length muzzle, and If in interorbital width. 



Prenasal more elevated than postnasal ; loreal large, higher than long. 

 Two postoculars, the superior considerably more elevated, in contact with one 

 temporal, which is higher than long; sixth and seventh labials higher than 

 long, the seventh not reaching postoculars, separated from occipital by two 

 temporals. Last labial a little longer than high. Supraorbitals each a tri- 

 angle truncate anteriorly. Frontal nearly long as broad, subtriangular, the 

 occipital sutures being very short. Occipitals very short, subtriangular, sides 

 concave, width equal common suture. Inferior labials 9 (one less than other 

 species) ; genials, the pairs short, equal. Gastrosteges 134, urosteges 35. 



Color: above a bright dark olive, with fourteen blackish cross-bars con- 

 tracted in the middle, as wide as their interspaces ; the ground color appears 

 in the middles of these bars, reducing them to skeletons. Sides of belly 

 black, with irregular bright yellow spots, most distinct on the end of every 

 other scutum. Top of head with ground like the back, and, like it, thickly 

 covered with black specks. Sides of head and of muzzle black, speckled 



* Two specimens of this species are in the museum of the Academy, presented by Drs. 

 Gallaer and Le Conte. Two other specimens, of unknown locality, are to be referred to the 

 same. 



1868.] 




134 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



with yellow, on the temple abruptly bounded above by the olive in a line to 

 rictus. Labial plates with a yellow blotch in the middle. An indistinct 

 brown band on each side the head from the occipitals backwards. Throat 

 bright yellow, with black blotches behind, which continues on the anterior 

 fourth the length. Belly brown, clouded yellow laterally, becoming blacker 

 behind; tail yellow below. 



Total length 22 in. 4 1.; of tail 3 in. ; of gape 11 1. 



This, the brightest species of the genus, was brought from Lake Jose Assu 

 by the Thayer Expedition to Brazil, under direction of Professor Agassiz. 

 M. C. Z. 362. 



EUTJENIA Bd. Gird. 

 Edt^nia phenax C<5pe, sp. nov. 



This is a handsome and peculiar species, being the only one of the genus 

 which is cross-banded. 



Scales in nineteen rows. All keeled except the first. General form much 

 as in E. sirtalis. Head rather short, muzzle obtuse, eye large, supercili- 

 ary plates arched. Diameter of eye equal from same to rostral plate along 

 the labials. Frontal shortened behind, with straight sides, -75 of parietal 

 common suture. Parietals truncate behind. Upper labials eight, fourth and 

 fifth in orbit. Loreal longer than high, one preocular, temporals 1 — 2. In- 

 ferior labials nine, sixth largest ; genials equal. Urosteges 63 ; anal 1 ; 

 gastrosteges 161. 



Total length 23 in. 5 1.; of tail 5 in. ; to rictus oris 9 lin. 



Coloration. Above reddish-olive, crossed by thirty-six transverse spots, 

 which are of a bright brownish-red, with a narrow black margin. They are 

 separated by transverse intervals of only a scale in width, hence the black 

 margins appear as paired cross-bars. These cross-bars extend to the first 

 row of scales, and are as often continuous on the side as not. There is no 

 lateral stripe, but there are black spots on the corner of the end of the gas- 

 trosteges. The margin of the first brown spot is in form of two black lines, 

 diverging from the parietal plates backwards. There is a brown bar in front 

 of frontal, one on the frontal and superciliaries behind (imperfect), and a 

 longitudinal on each parietal. No pair of light parietal spots. Labials below 

 eye with the last black-margined, otherwise light olive. Below, a strong 

 green, unspotted. 



This species is common near Cordova, Vera Cruz, whence Francis Sumi- 

 chrast has sent specimens to the Smithsonian Inst, and Mus. A. N. S. 



MASTICOPHIS Bd. Gird. 



Masticophis melanolomus Cope, sp. nov. 



A slender species, with one preopercular plate, and smooth scales in fifteen 

 longitudinal series. Loreal an elongate parallelogram, not encroaching on 

 the preocular. Postoculars two, the inferior very small. Superior labials 

 nine, the fourth, fifth and sixth in orbit, seventh subtriangular, eighth and 

 ninth longer than high. The last mentioned are separated from occipitals 

 by two horizontal series of temporals, each of three plates, the anterior of the 

 lower, and posterior of the upper, the longest, lower posterior widest. Occi- 

 pitals broadly emarginate behind, their width in front equal the common 

 suture and four-fifths frontal plate. Latter much narrowed : superciliaries 

 broad, projecting. laternasals a little longer than broad, rostral just visible 

 from above. Inferior labials ten, postgenials considerably longer than pre- 

 genials. A row of plates in an open chevron bounds the occipitals and tem- 

 porals behind. Scales of body not narrowed ; anal as in the genus, divided. 



Gastrosteges 184; urosteges 128. Total length 44 in. 3 1. ; of tail 14 in. ; 

 of rictus oris 1 in. 1 1. 



Coloration grayish-olive, all the scales with a narrow black border, which 

 become longitudinal lines on the posterior part of the length ; one of these, 



[March, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 135 



on the line of the second and third rows of scales, extends throughout the 

 posterior five-sixths the length. A dark shade through eye. Middle half of 

 gastrosteges yellow. 



From Yucatan; A. Schott, of the Comision Cientifica. 



I had enumerated this as the M. b i 1 i n e a t u s of Schlegel (Pr. A. N. S. 

 1866, 127), but an examination of Jan's beautiful figure enables me to correct 

 the error. 



LEPTOGNATHUS Dum. Bibr. 

 Giinther, Jan. 



A review of the species of this interesting genus has been already given. I 

 give here references to all the species, and descriptions of some new ones not 

 contained in the Williams College collection. 

 Leptognathds bucephala Cope, iShaw, see Catalogue. 



Leptognathus variegatds Dum. Bibron, Erpet. Gen. vii, p. 477. Dipsadomo- 

 rus Jan. 



From Surinam. No specimen of this species has fallen under my observa- 

 tion. 

 Leptognathds catesbyi Giinther, Weigel. See Catalogue. 



Leptognathus pavonina Dum. Bibr. Schleg., Erpet. Gen. vii, 474. 

 Guiana. 



Leptognathus articulata Cope, sp. nov. "i)//?.';?.? irms Dum. Bibr.," Cope, 

 Proc. A. N. Sci. Philada. 1860. Not of Dum. Bibr. 



The most slender, compressed species of the genus. Muzzle very short ; 

 frontal plate hexagonal, sides converging, length equal width ; occipitals 

 broad and squarely truncate behind, not reached \>j the vertebral series of 

 plates. Fourth and fifth superior labials entering orbit, sixth nearly excluded 

 by the long lower postocular. Temporals two — three, with one inferior addi- 

 tional in contact with postocular. Sixth and seventh inferior labials con- 

 nected by one transverse plate. 



The brown annuli are wider anteriorly than posteriorly ; the second covers 

 lOj rows of scales, the seventeenth, just in front of the vent, Qh- The yellow 

 annuli are of nearly uniform width — ^\ scales, — and without spots above or 

 below. Top of head, sides, and upper labials in front of eye, all the lower 

 labials, brown; rest of head with numerous short lines on the muzzle, yellow 

 or white. 



Gastrosteges 215; anal 1; urosteges 135. Total length 26-5 in. ; of tail 

 8-75 in. ; of gape 6 in. 



From Veraguas, Costa Rica ; sent to the Academy by R. W. Mitchell. 



Leptognathus mikanii Giinther, Schlegel. Anholodon mikanii Dum. Bibr. 

 vii, 1165. 



Eastern Brazil. 



Body not elongate, but much compressed. Head less elevated, and with 

 flatter muzzle than in the last. 



Loreal square ; frontal nearly equally hexagonal, with straight sides ; occi- 

 pitals elongate, rounded posteriorly. Third and fourth labials bounding or- 

 bits, the anterior little higher than long, posterior two much longer than 

 high. Temporals 1 | 2, all longer than high, anterior in contact with both 

 postoculars. 



Dorsal cross-bands two scales wide, four scales apart, with zig-zag outlines 

 from never crossing a scale. Posteriorly their extremities are broken oif into 

 a lateral series of spots. Belly with a series of elongate blotches on each 

 side, which alternate with the lateral spots ; dusted with brown medially. 

 Top of head dark brown, with five darker light-edged spots ; one on the junc- 

 tion of prefrontals with frontal, on one outer posterior angle of latter, and 

 one on each occipital plate. Labial plates all reddish- brown margined. 



1868,] 




136 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Gastrosteges 165; anal 1 ; urostcges 74. Total length 16 in. ; of tail 3-75 

 in. ; of gape 5 1. 



From Bahia, Brazil. Spec, in Mus. Academy, presented by E. D. Cope. 



Leptognathus vaga Jan., Elenco Systematico (nondescripta). 



This species has not been described, so far as the writer is aware, but it 

 can be assigned to its place in consequence of an examination of the original 

 specimen, which was permitted the writer through the attention of Prof. Jan. 



It belongs to group II, and has but two postocular plates; of its preoculars 

 nothing can be said. Superior labials eight. There are four pairs of genials. 

 General form less compressed than the types, with rather short body and tail. 

 Above wood-brown, with indistinct cross series of spots. Below yellowish, 

 tesellated with brown. Size not large for the genus. 



This species is said to have been brought from Hong Kong, but this is alto- 

 gether improbable; it is probably South American. 



Another species, L. incertus, from Surinam, is named but not described by 

 Jan, and is therefore likely to remain incertus. 



Lkptognathus brevis Dum. Bibr., vii, 476. 



This species is not described in sufficient detail to allow me to refer it to 

 its place in this genus. It appears, however, to be different from any species 

 here enumerated, though it has the coloration of several Mexican species. 



Mexico, Dum. Bibron. 



Leptognathus oreas Cope. See preceding Catalogue. 



Leptognathus in.*:quifasciata Cope. Cochliophogus iniequi. Dum. Bibr., vii. 

 From Brazil, with doubt. D. B. 



Leptognathus nebulata Giinther, Linn. Pelalognathus Dum. Bibr. Coluber 

 varieyatus Hallowell, Pr. A. N. S. ii, 214. See Catalogue. 



Leptognathus anthracops Cope, sp. nov. 



A strongly marked species, having a general resemblance to the L. 

 s a r t o r i i . 



Muzzle short, narrowed, frontal plate longer than wide, with straight sides; 

 occipitals not shortened, broadly rounded behind. Anterior three labials 

 narrow and high, fourth and fifth only touching orbit. Sixth upper labial 

 much higher than long ; seventh much longer than high. Inferior postocular 

 larger than superior. Temporals rather small, subequal, 1 | 2 | 3 ; loreal 

 longer than high. Sixth inferior labial enlarged. Second pair genials longer 

 than wide, third pair wider than long. 



Yellow annuli, 9^- rows scales apart anteriorly, four rows distant posteri- 

 orly ; yellow rings, wider behind. There are twenty-three on the body, 

 twelve on the tail. They are often alternating on the belly, which is other- 

 wise unspotted. No white markings on top of head. 



Gastrosteges 177; anal 1 ; urosteges 76, some dozen or more at the tip of 

 the tail undivided in the individual at hand. 



Total length 19 in. 8 1.; of tail 5 in. 3 1.; of gape 4-75 1. 



From Central America ; one sp. in Mus. Academy from E. D. Cope, pro- 

 cured from the traveller and collector, Robert Bridges. 



Leptognathus brevifacies Cope. Tropidodipsas brevifacies Cope, Proc. A. N. 

 Sci. Philada. Ib66. 

 From Yucatan. 

 Leptognathus turgida Cope, sp. nov. " Cochliophagiis jnseqi/ifascialus D. B.," 

 Cope, Proc. A. N. Sci. Philada. 1862, 347; not of Dum. Bibr. 

 This species has the head very little distinct from the body when viewed 

 from above, and the neck but little compressed. In profile the frontal region 

 is seen to be concave, and the top of the muzzle swollen both longitudinally 

 and transversely. The internasals are but little broader than long; the same 



[March, 




NATL'RAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 137 



may be said of the large prefrontals. Frontal hexagonal, scarcely longer than 

 broad, with strongly convergent sides. Occipitals narrowed, emarginate be- 

 hind. Temporals 1 | 2 | 2, the anterior not large, in contact with both post- 

 oculars and fifth and sixth upper labials. Seventh labial bounded by two. 

 The five anterior labials are higher than long, the two others a little longer 

 than high, third and fourth entering orbit. Loreal longer than high. Eight 

 inferior labials, fifth with greater transverse than longitudinal diameter. 



Gastrosteges 159; anal 1 ; urosteges 41. 



Color above a rich yellow-brown, with a series of black spots on the dorsal 

 region, which are longer anteriorly, but separated by nearly equal spaces of 

 1-5 to 2 scales; length of third spot 7-5, scales of tenth, three scales. Behind 

 the third spot the lateral portions are separated and sometimes divided, and 

 extend to the ends of the scuta. Below nearly unspotted, except on tail. 

 Gular region also immaculate. Head above thickly dusted with brown, paler 

 on nape and top of muzzle. A pair of deep brown, yellow-edged spots on 

 each occipital plate, converging behind ; labials brown-dusted. 



This is one of the most handsomely colored of the species, and of aberrant 

 form. 



From the Northern part of the Paraguay river. 



Leptognathus fasciata Cope. Tropidodipsas fasciata Giinther, Catal. Snakes 

 Brit. Mus., 1858. 

 From Mexico. 



Leptognathus sartorii Cope. Tropidodipsas do. Cope, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. 

 1863, 100. 

 Vera Cruz, Mexico. 



BATRACHIA. 



Prostherapis ingdinalis Cope, genus et species novae Colostethidarum. 



Char. ymer. — Xiphisternum membranous (difficult to discover), manubrium 

 a bony style, with cartilage disc ; metatarsus slightly webbed, dilatations 

 strong, each with two dermal scales on the upper side, separated by a fissure ; 

 terminal phalanges small, T-shaped ; tongue cylindric, free ; no vomerine 

 teeth ; belly not areolate. Pupils longitudinal. Ethmoid well developed an- 

 teriorly, the prefrontals lateral, well separated. 



This genus is interesting, as constituting the second of the little known 

 family of the Colostethidae, which was established by the writer in 1867. Its 

 general appearance is that of a Phyllobates, and it is related to Colostethus 

 much as Limnocharis is to the firet-named. The two leathery scales of the 

 pallettes are peculiar, and resemble those of the under side in Phyllodactylus. 

 The distal phalanges are short, and extend very little into the dilatation. 



Char, specif. — Muzzle and canthus rostralis angulated, the former project- 

 ing, rounded, truncate from above ; the loreal legion nearly vertical. Nostril 

 nearly terminal, eye large, its long diameter equal to near end of muzzle. 

 Membrana tympani concealed. Skin everywhere smooth, a weak fold on the 

 distal half the tarsus. Free portions of the metatarsi only webbed, all the 

 toes with strong dermal margin ; the fingers with a weaker one. Digital di- 

 latations extended rather transversely ; two metatarsal tubercles, both small, 

 inner elongate. Inner nares almost lateral, ostia pharyngea small, half the 

 size of the former. 



Width head and jaws one-third length to end coccyx, and equal length head 

 to opposite usual position of posterior margin tympanum. Heel to middle 

 of orbit, wrist to beyond end muzzle. 



Lin. 



Length head and body 12-5 



" fore limb 8 



" hind limb 18-5 



" foot without tarsus 56 



1868.] 10 




138 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Color dark brownish-leaden, below dirty white. The almost black of the 

 sides bounded below by an irregular pale border, below which are some dark 

 marblings. The same border extends, with an axillary interruption, to the 

 orbit, and continues on the upper lip as a series of light dots. A light band 

 commences at the groin above, and extends to opposite the sacrum, convert- 

 ing the dark color of the side into a half band. Femur and tibia dark, marbled 

 before and behind. 



From the river Truando, New Grenada. Brought by the expedition under 

 Lieut. Michler, by Arthur Schott. This species and the Dendrobates tinc- 

 t o r i u s Wagl. were accidentally omitted from the report of this expedition, 

 published in Proc. Acad. 1862, 355. 



BUFO ARGILLACEUS CopC, Sp. nOV. 



Ridges of cranium superciliary and supratympanic ; no parietal branch. 

 Parotoids elongate trigonal, the long angle prolonged towards the sides. Two 

 weak metatarsal tubercles. A tarsal dermal fold ; toes little webbed. Muzzle 

 elongate, not much depressed or projecting beyond labial border. No pre- 

 orbilal ridge; superciliaries nearly parallel. Skin rather finely rugose. 



Males olive-grey ; females with a pale vertebral line, and a series of brown 

 spots on each side of it. Crown, lips, and below unspotted. Length of head 

 and body 2 in. 9 1. 



This species is to be compared with the B. granulosus of Spix, which 

 it represents in another region. It differs in lacking the preorbital ridge, and 

 having a longer muzzle. 



Numerous specimens in Museum Smithsonian from Colima, "Western Mexico, 

 from U. S. Consul, John Xantus. 



Second Supplement on some New Raniformia of the Old World. 



TOMOPTERNA LABROSA Cope, Sp. nOV. 



Head rauiform, little elevated ; end of muzzle recurved, loreal and subor- 

 bital regions concave, the edge of the maxillary region strongly projecting. 

 From orbit to margin of jaw below it less than diameter of tympanum, two- 

 thirds that of orbit. Tympanum elliptic, subvertical, about -66 long diame- 

 ter eye fissure, latter -2 greater than from edge of same to external nostril, 

 and 1-5 least interorbital width. Frontal and prefrontal regions slightly 

 grooved medially. Vomerine teeth in two very short, nearly transverse, lines 

 opposite the middle margin of the inner nares. Latter large, about equal to 

 ostia pharyngea. 



When the limbs are extended the carpus attains the end of the muzzle, 

 and the heel the middle of the orbit. Tarsus equal third toe without last 

 two phalanges. Cuneiform shovel small for the genus, equal inner toe less 

 the last phalange. Webs large, measuring "66 the third and fifth toes. 

 Thumb longer than second and fourth fingers. Skin of upper surfaces with 

 numerous nMrrow irregular folds ; eyelids slightly rugose behind. A strong 

 fold above the tympanum decurved behind it. 



In. Lin. In. • Lin. 



Total length head and body... 2 4-5 Length tarsus 6- 



" " hind limb 3 4-5 " foot 1 



Length tibia -13 Width head behind 1 



Color above gray-olive, with paired blackish spots, on each side a light 

 vertebral band. The anterior of these are a triangular blotch on top of muz- 

 zle and band across middle of each eyelid. Side of head blackish-gray with 

 a pale gray band on end of muzzle, one from front of orbit to lip, and one 

 below eye, longitudinally past lower edge tympanum bordered by blackish 

 from orbit backwards. Femur with three, tibia with four, and outer edge 

 foot with four blackish-gray cross-bars ; femur pale-brown behind. 



[March, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 139 



This species is more slender in form than the others of the genus, and ex- 

 hibits a fuller palmaiion of the feet ; it does not difl'er more from the species 

 of Hoplobatrachus Pet. than the Rana; do among themselves. One spec. 

 (282) has the whole upper surface of the head, and a broad vertebral band 

 yellow. Of the types are two specimens (No. 283) in Museum Comparative 

 Zoology, Cambridge, all from Madagascar, presented to Prof. Agassiz by G 

 W. Goodhue. 



ToMOPTERNA POROSA Cope, sp. nov. 



Toes nearly completely webbed, 2-3 phalanges of the fourth toe free. Muz- 

 zle obtuse ovate from above, decurved in profile, as long as diameter of eye- 

 slit. Top of front and muzzle plane, canthus distinct, contracted, obtuse 

 loreal region with a longitudinal concavity. Tympanum round, nearly as 

 large as eye, distinct From orbit to maxillary border '66 diameter tympan- 

 um ; lip rather prominent below orbit. Vomerine teeth in two fasciculi op- 

 posite middle or hind margin of choanae, nearer each other than margin. 

 Choanaj smaller than the large ostia. 



Fingers with very small web at base, thumb longer than second, equal 

 fourth. Tarsus of extended limb beyond end muzzle ; heel to front of orbit. 

 Tarsus 2-3 times in longest toe. Cuneiform shovel 2-56 times in tarsus. 



In. Lin. In. Lin , 



Length head and body 2 1-75 Length head to tympanum 



Hind limb 3 3 75 behind 8-25 



Tibia -11 Width head same point 9- 



Hind foot 1 -7 



A glandular dermal fold from above tympanum to above groin on each 

 side ; the greater part of the eyelid glandular and covered with pores. A 

 glandular fold from angle mouth to behind above axilla. No tarsal folds. 



Color above brown, with dark-gray shades ; in one specimen an imperfect 

 pale-gray vertebral line. Under surfaces white, sides coarsely and hand- 

 somely marbled with brown and white below and gray above. Head dark- 

 brown, a pale line on the lip, a slight margin to lower lip. Femur brown 

 with pale marblings. 



This species is abundantly different from those hitherto known, and seems 

 to indicate that the genus Hoplobatrachus Peters is less distinct from Tomop- 

 terna than hitherto supposed. 



Three specimens (No. 305), Agassiz' Mus. Compar. Zoology, Cambridge, 

 Mass. From Kanagawa, Japan. From Dr. Jas. T. Gulick. 



Hylorana leptoglossa Cope, sp. nov. 



This species is most nearly allied to the H. temporalis Grinther of Cey- 

 lon. The points of difference are italicised in the following description : 



Hind limbs as in H. t e ni p o r a 1 i s, and the fourth toe is only -33 longer 

 than the third and fifth. Two well marked metatarsal tubercles. Vomerine 

 teeth in two very short oblique rows commencing opposite the posterior 

 margins of the choanse and directed backwards ; they are about as far from 

 each other as from choante. Tongue narrow, not filling rami of jaws. Tym- 

 patuim as large as eye ; latter contained 1-5 times in length of muzzle, extending 

 beyond nostril. A heavy glandular dorsolateral fold, separated by a groove 

 from another interrupted one beloiv it. A deep groove from axilla to near groin. 

 A short glandular fold from angle of mouth. Muzzle fiat tened acuminate at the end. 

 Heel of hind limb to front of orbit. Fourth toe more than half length head, 

 and body; no dermal fold on upper edge of tarsus. 



Above olivaceous, with a blackish band from end muzzle to groiti, margined 

 with yellow below, from below eye to axilla. Pale yellow below, sides black- 

 ish spotted. Femora behind black, yellow veined. Limbs paler, rather close- 

 ly cross-barred. 



Lin. Lin. 



Length head and body 21-5 Width head behind tympanum.. 7.75 



" hind limb 20- Length hind foot 14-5 



1868.] 




140 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



Three specimens (623) in Mus. Compar. Zoology, Cambridge, Mass. From 

 near Rangoon, Burmah. With many other valuable specimens, these were 

 procured by Wm. Theobald, Jr. 



Hylorana subc(erulea Cope, sp. nov. 



Fourth toe somewhat more than half the length of the head and body. 

 Two lateral glandular folds, the inferior much narrower, not reaching groin 

 from angle mouth. No groove on the side of the belly. General form slen- 

 der, the head elongate, the muzzle produced, 1-5 length of eye fissure, the 

 nostril measuring two-fifths this distance. Tympanum -06 the diameter of 

 eye. Interorbital width equal from eye to nostril. The middle of the meta- 

 carpus measures the end of the muzzle, as does the proximal two-fifths the 

 tarsus. Skin above smooth except on posterior iliac region, where are small 

 warts. Sides scarcely glandular. A delicate fold on tarsus ; one metatarsal 

 tubercle. Tongue rhombic, filling space between rami, contracted a little 

 behind. Vomerine teeth in two rather long series originating at the front of 

 the choanae, and extend very obliquely backwards, and well separated. 1'3 

 phalanges of third and fifth toes free, and three phalanges of fourth toe. 



Above glossj^ blue, sides with a blackish-blue band from end muzzle to 

 groin. Dermal folds and a band all around the upper lip brassy yellow. 

 Femora behind speckled and marbled with yellow on a blackish ground, and 

 with a dark longitudinal band below ; upper face tibia golden brown, not 

 cross-barred. Arm not crossed-barred. Everywhere below brown shaded, 

 palest on the belly. In a younger specimen the belly is white and the upper 

 surfaces pale brown. 



Lin. Lin. 



Length head and body .....15-1 Length hind limb 2.8 



" tibia &• " to behind tympanum... 6* 



" tarsus 4-5 Width at same point 4-5 



" foot 8-25 



This very handsome animal is nearest in general characters to the H. m a- 

 crodactyla Giinther, a specimen of which was procured at the same 

 locality, viz.: Rangoon, Burmah, by Wm. Theobald, Jr., above recorded. Its 

 feet are much less palmate than those of the H. chalconota, from Java, 

 which it also resembles. It is one of the best illustrations of a genus which 

 has been particularly furnished among the Batrachia with beauty of hue and 

 lustre. Mus. Compar. Zoology (G24 — 626), three specimens. 



Sexual Law in ACER DASYCARPUM Ehrb. 

 BY THOMAS MEEHAN. 



Noticing among the silver maple trees at Bristol, Pa., some trees which had 

 evidently borne only pistillate flowers for many years, and had subsequently 

 pushed forth branches which bore only male flowers, it occurred to me 

 that possibly extended observations might enable me to discover the law 

 which governed the production of male or female forms respectively. I^f- 

 terwards examined carefully some thousands of trees in blossom, and though 

 I failed in the immediate object, the discovery of the law, it may serve an 

 useful purpose to place on record the facts observed in the investigation. 



The staminate flowers are easily distinguished from the pistillate ones, not 

 only by their larger size, owing to the development of the stamens, but by 

 the pale yellowish-green of the filaments. The awl-shaped styles of the 

 female flowers do not project far beyond the scales, and are reddish-brown. 

 The Bristol trees were about a foot in diameter, very healthy, judging by their 

 clean smooth bark, and had probably been in fruit-bearing condition for at 

 least ten years. The proportion of male to female trees was about equal. 

 There were many instances of branches with male flowers which had perhaps 



[March, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 141 



within the last three or four years pushed out on trees which had evidently 

 once borne only female ones; but in no instance did a female branch start 

 out from a male tree. Having once began to bear male flowers, these 

 branches continued to develop these only, presenting the appearance of an- 

 other variety grafted on another stock. 



Returning to Philadelphia, noting every tree I met on the side walks, I saw 

 a very few trees which had male and female flowers scattered promiscuously 

 over the same branches. These are very rare; but the fact of their existence 

 may have an important bearing on any attempt to evolve the laws governing 

 the production of separate sexes. 



At Germantown I chose for the field of my investigation the large estate of 

 Mrs. G. W. Carpenter, on which are many hundreds about twenty-five to 

 thirty years old ; but amongst all these I did not note one which showed any 

 tendency to branch into distinct sexes like those at Bristol, or any one with 

 mixed sexes like the few seen in Philadelphia. All the trees were either ex- 

 clusively male, or exclusively female. 



The parts of fructification in Acer dasycarpum have no^, to my knowledge, 

 been minutel}^ described. It will be of interest, in connection with the sub- 

 ject of this paper, to note them. 



There are three classes of buds on the tree : leaf-bearing, staminate. and 

 pistillate. The leaf-bearing buds are formed of eight imbricated scales in four 

 pairs, the scales all distinct and beneath the uppermost pair ; five embryo 

 leaves, rolled up to look very much like imperfect anthers, form a sort of 

 crown. The bud bearing the staminate flower, or rather which forms it, 

 has also eight scales, the upper two uniting for nearly half their length, and 

 recurved at their summits when the flower is fully formed, making a cup-like 

 involucre, at the bottom of which arise five (rarely seven) corollas, which are 

 separated from each other at their bases by a fuscous down. These corollas 

 are about one-fourth o-f an inch long, the lower half tubular, the upper half 

 funnel-shaped, the five (rarely seven) stamens arising from the base of the 

 funnel. The filaments are double the length of the corolla, which we may 

 properly term it. 



The female flower primarily resembles the other two in this, that it is com- 

 posed of eight scales imbricated in pairs ; but what in the male we call a 

 corolla is reduced to a pair ot united scales not more than one-thirty-secoud 

 of an inch in depth, united into a flattened cup, with the edges rather in- 

 clined than to turn out. In the center is the two-styled ovary, and at its 

 base arise seven stamens, although sometimes only four, generally five, push 

 their anthers above the minute scaly cup outside. These anthers appear 

 large and well-developed, but I have failed to find pollen in any one, and in 

 no instance have I been able to find a perfect stamen like unto those formed 

 in the staminate flower. These rudimentary stamens never push beyond the 

 scales. Though classed as a Polygamous species by authors, it would appear 

 from these observations a monoeciously Dioecious plant. 



In trying to classify my observations, in order to evolve some sexual law, 

 I found that vigor made no diflFerence ; weak trees or weak branches were 

 alike male or female Some individuals are more years coming into flower 

 than others. I fancied I had once got a clue in the fact that in the com- 

 mencement of my observations I found numerous specimens of great size 

 which were apparently commencing their fruiting age, and which were female 

 trees in all cases; but at length I discovered two trees of the same character 

 of the masculine kind. 



The only positive fact in relation to the matter seems to be that the sexual 

 character of the maple is not unchangable after the infancy of the tree ; and 

 that the tendency of development is from female to male. 



1868.] 




142 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



April 7th. 



Isaac Lea, LL.D., in the Chair. 



Thirty-one members present. 



The following was presented for publication : " Description of 

 Sixteen new species of Unio of the United States." By Isaac Lea. 



April 14th. 

 Mr. Vaux, Vice President, in the Chair. 

 Twenty-nine members present. 



April 21st. 

 Mr. Vaux, Vice-President, in the Chair. 



Twenty-four members present. 



The following was presented for publication : 



" Notes on some singular species of Unio." By Isaac Lea. 



A letter from Mr. A. R. Roessler, dated Washington, April 18, was 

 read, stating that he had examined a specimen of tin stone, from the 

 vicinity of Ironton, Mo., and had found it to contain a " very favor- 

 able percentage of metal." 



Dr. Genth remarked that he had examined specimens of the best 

 tin ore of Missouri, and found that they contained only six pounds 

 of tin to the ton of ore. 



April 28th. 

 Mr. Jos. Jeanes in the Chair. 



Forty-three members present. 



The resignation of Mr. Samuel Jeanes, as a member of the Aca- 

 demy, was read and accepted. 



The death of Mr. Isaac Barton was announced. 



The following gentlemen were elected members : Dr. H. C. Chap- 

 man, Mr. Charles Wilson Peale, Mr. Benj. Bullock, Mr. Thos. Web- 

 ster, and Dr. E. Dyer. 



Dr. T. H. Turner, U.S.A., was elected a correspondent. 



On favorable report of the committees, the following papers were 

 ordered to be published : 



On a New MINERAL in CRYOLITE. 

 BY THEO. D. RAND. 



This mineral, for which I propose the name Ivigtite, from its locality, was 

 first observed in 1866, but only recently has been obtained in sufficient quan- 

 tity for examination. 



It occurs disseminated in films and seams through massive cryolite — some- 

 times forming a coating between crystals of carbonate of iron and the cryo- 

 lite in which the carbonate is imbedded. Color pale yellowish-green, some- 



[April, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 143 



times yellow. Structure fine granular, approaching micaceous. Hardness 

 2—2-5 S. G. 2-05. B. B. alone blackens slightly and fuses rather easily to 

 a white slag. With carb. soda fuses readily and with effervescence to a green- 

 ish bead. In borax dissolves readily iron reaction. In microcosmic salt dis- 

 solves readily, except silica skeleton, bead yellow while hot, bluish opalescent 

 when cold. In closed tube yields acid water. 



With considerable difficulty 0-679 gm. of the mineral, free from admixture, 

 was obtained and submitted to analysis with the following percentage result : 



Water 3-42 



Fluorine -75 



Silica 36-49 



Sesquioxide of iron 7-54 



Alumina 24-09 



Soda 16-03 



Loss 11-68 



100-00 

 The very small quantitj' of the mineral which could be procured prevented 

 a more satisfactory result, but from the foregoing characteristics 1 feel justi- 

 fied in pronouncing it a new species, and hope that a larger quantity may be 

 procured and a correct analysis made. 



Pachnolite, besides its usual occurrence in honey-combed cryolite, nearly 

 or always in juxtaposition with the so-called Hagemannite, has been observed 

 in crystals implanted on massive cryolite, and also coating crystals of the 

 latter, mix'-d with microscopic crystals of cryolite. The crystals of pachno- 

 lite are always small, rarely exceeding the fiftieth of an inch in diameter, but 

 those of cryolite have been found measuring over 3-lOths of an inch cube. The 

 crystals of carbonate of iron, found in the cryolite, have probably never been 

 excelled for size and beauty. They are usually simple rhombohedrons, often 

 of fine polish and measuring from half an inch to four inches across. A 

 black blende, containing much iron, has been found in the massive cryolite, 

 crystallized in perfect octahedra. 

 Philadelphia, March 23, 1868. 



Doicription of Sixteen New Species of the Genus TJNIO of the United States . 

 BY ISAAC LEA. 



Un'io Murrayexsis. — Testa laevi, obliqua, tumida, solida, valde inaequila- 

 terali, postice rotundata, antice truncata; valvulis crassis, antice crassiori- 

 bus ; natibus valde elevatis, tumidis ; epidermide luteo-fuscata, concentrico- 

 vittata, eradiata ; dentibus cardinalibus crassis, subelevalis; lateralibus 

 crassis, obliquis rectisque ; margarita argentea et iridescente. 



ff/b. — Murray County, Georgia, Maj. T. C. Downie ; Etowah River, Georgia, 

 Bishop Elliott. 



Unio fassinans. — Testa l;evi, elliptica, subcompressa, inaequilaterali, pos- 

 tice obtuse angulata, antice rotundata; valvulis crassiusculis, autice crassi- 

 oribus ; natibus subpromiuentibus ; epidermide teuebroso-rufo-fusca, eradi- 

 ata; dentibus cardinalibus crassiusculis, compressis, obliquis; lateralibus 

 sublongis, crassis, obliquis corrugatisque ; margarita salmonis colore tiucta, 

 splendida et iridescente. 



Hab. — Headwaters of Holston River, Washington Co., Va., Prof. E. D. Cope. 



Unio spards. — Testa lajvi, lato-elliptica, subinflata, valde infequilaterali, 

 postice obtuse angulata, antice rotundata ; valvulis subtenuibus, antice cras- 

 sioribus ; natibus prominulis, ad apices minute undulatis ; epidermide sub- 

 crocea, valde radiata ; dentibus cardinalibus parvis, erectis, conicis ; laterali- 



1868.] 




144 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



bus longis subcurvisque ; margaritca salmonis colore tincta et valde irides- 

 cente. 



Hab. — Swamp Creek, North Georgia, Maj. T. C. Downie. 



Unio Copei. — Testa la;vi, elliptica, subcompressa, inaequilaterali, aniice et 

 postice rotundata ; valvulis subcrassis antice crassioribus ; natibus prominu- 

 lis, ad apices uadulatis ; epidermide teaebroso-fuscata, ad margiiiem squamo- 

 sa, eradiata; deotibus cardinalibus subcrassis, elevatis, compressis, corrugatis, 

 in utroque valvulo duphcibus ; lateralibus longis, lamellatis, subcurvatisque ; 

 margarita purpurea et valde iridescente. 



Ilab. — Headwaters of Holston River, Smith Co., Va., Prof. E. D. Cope. 



Unio cylindrellus. — Testa hevi, late elliptica, cylindracea, valde inasqui- 

 laterali, antice et postice rotundata; valvulis subcrassis, antice crassioribus ; 

 uatibus prominulis ; epidermide luteola, eradiata ; dentibus cardinalibus 

 parvis, subconicis corrugatisque ; lateralibus longis subrectisque ; margarita 

 intus purpurea et valde iridescente. 



Hah. — Duck Creek, Tenn. : Swamp Creek, Murray Co., Ga., Major Downie ; 

 and North Alabama, Prof Tuomey. 



Unio difficilis. — Testa Isevi, elliptica, inflata, valde inffiquilaterali, postice 

 obtuse ansfulata, antice rotundata; valvulis tenuibis, antice crassioribus; 

 natibus prominulis ; epidermide luteola, valde radiata ; dentibus cardinali- 

 bus parviusculis, conicis crenulatisque ; lateralibus sublongis rectisque ; 

 margarita alba et valde iridescente. 



Ilab. — Swamp Creek, Ga., Major Downie; Holston River, Washington Co., 

 Prof. Cope. 



Unio Topekaensis. — Testa lajvi, lata, subcompressa, valde inaequilaterali, 

 postice obtuse angulata, antice rotundata; valvulis crassiusculis, antice cras- 

 sioribus ; natibus prominulis, ad apices undulatis ; epidermide tenebroso- 

 fusca, radiata ; dentibus cardinalibus erectis, compressis crenulatisque ; 

 lateralibus longis rectisque ; margarita cairuleo-alba et valde iridescente. 



^a6.— Topeka, Kansas, Prof. Daniels; Little Arkansas, Dr. Le Conte, &c. 



Unio Brazosensis. — Testa plicata, subrotunda, ventricosa, valde insequila- 

 terali, antice et postice rotundata; valvulis percrassis, antice crassioribus; 

 natibus prominentibus, tumidis, incurvis, ad apices minute undulatis; epi- 

 dermide tenebroso-rufo-fusca, eradiata; dentibus cardinalibus percrassis, 

 rfolidis, erectis corrugatisque ; lateralibus longis, subcrassis et obliquis; mar- 

 garita argentea et valde iridescente. 



Hab. — Dallas Co., Texas, Prof. Forshey ; Brazos River, Dr. Lincecum. 



Unio Lincecdmii. — Testa plicata, rotundata, subglobosa, valde ina?quilater- 

 ali ; valvulis precrassis, antice crassioribus ; natibus prominentibus, tumidis, 

 incurvis, ad apices minute undulatis; epidermide tenebroso-fusca, nigricaute, 

 eradiata ; dentibus cardinalibus percrassis, solidis, erectis corrugatisque ; 

 lateralibus longis, subcrassis et obliquis ; margarita argentea et valde irides- 

 cente. 



Hab — Dallas County, Texas, Prof. Forshey ; Brazos River, Texas, Dr. G. 

 Lincecum. 



Unio corvinus. — Testa lajvi, elliptica, inflata, valde inagquilaterali ; antice et 

 postice rotundata; valvulis subcrassis, antice crassioribus; natibus vix pro- 

 minentibus, epidermide nigra, subsquamea, eradiata; dentibus cardinalibus 

 parvissimis decussatisque ; lateralibus longis subrectisque; margarita alba 

 et valde iridescente. 



Hab.— ¥\mi River, Geo., J. C. Plant and Dr. Neisler ; Neuse River, N. C, 

 Prof. Emmons. 



Unio corvunculus. — Testa la^vi, elliptica, subinflata, valde inaequilaterali ; 

 antice et postice rotundata ; valvulis crassiusculis, antice crassioribus ; nati- 



[ April, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 145 



bus prominulis, ad apices subcoacentrico-undulatis; epidermide nigricante, 

 eradiata ; dentibus cardinalibus parvis, erectis, subcompressis crenulatisque ; 

 margarita purpurea et iridescente. 

 Hab. — Flint River, Ga., J. C. Plant and Dr. Neisler ; Dariea, J. H. Couper. 



Unio planior. — Testa subsulcata, subtriangulari, ad latere planulata, inae- 

 quilaterali ; valvulis crassiusculis, antice crassioribus ; natibus subpromi- 

 nentibus ; epidermide vel lutea vel ochracea, radiata ; dentibus cardinalibus 

 parvis, compressis striatisque ; lateralibus longis, crassiusculis et obliquis ; 

 margarita alba et iridescente. 



Hah. — Tennessee, Mr. H. Moores ; Headwaters Holston River, Washington 

 Co., Virginia, Prof. Cope. 



Unio vallatus. — Testa nodulosa, rotundata, lenticulari, sabinflata, ina^qui- 

 laterali ; valvulis, crassis, autice crassioribus ; natibus subprominentibus ; 

 epidermide lateo-fusca, eradiata ; dentibus cardinalibus pergrandibus, ele- 

 vatis granulatisque ; lateralibus crassis, curtis obliquisque ; margarita ar- 

 gentea et iridescente. 



Hab. — Alabama River, Dr. Showalter. 



Unio refulgens. — Testa nodulosa, rotundata, lenticular!, inaiquilaterali ; 

 valvulis subcrassis, antice crassioribus ; natibus prominulis ; epidermide 

 rufo-castanea, aliquanto polita : dentibus cardinalibus subgraLdit)us, ele- 

 ganter corrugatis crenulatiscjue ; lateralibus longiusculis, obliquis, minute 

 corrugatis ; margarita albida, ad marginem purpurescente et elegantissime 

 iridescente. 



Hab. — Oktibbeha River, Lauderdale Co., Miss., W. Spillman, M. D. 



Unio Uharekxsis. — Testa laevi, oblonga, ad latere planulata, inajquilaterali, 

 postice biangulala, antice rotundata; valvulis crassiusculis, antice crassiori- 

 bus ; natibus prominulis ; epidermide rufo-fusca, subsquamea, eradiata ; 

 dentibus cardinalibus parvis, striatis, in utroque valvule duplicibus ; laterali- 

 bus longis, lamellatis subcurvisque ; margarita vel alba vel salmonis colore 

 tincta. 



i/«i.— Uharee River, Montgomery Co., N. C, F. A. Genth, M. D. 



Unio sph.*;rious. — Testa nodulosa, valde inflata, subglobosa, fere aequila- 

 terali ; valvulis crassis, antice crassioribus ; natibus elevatis ; epidermide 

 rufo-castanea, eradiata;. dentibus cardinalibus pergrandibus, corrugatis 

 crenulatisque ; lateralibus curtis, crassis, corrugatis, obliquis subcurvisque ; 

 margarita argentea et valde iridescente. 



Hab. — Pearl River, at Jackson, Miss., C. M. Wheatlej. 



Notes on some singular forms of Chinese species of UNIO. 

 BY ISAAC LEA. 



In a paper on " Chinese Shells," by Dr. Baird and Mr. H. Adams, published 

 in the Proceedings of the Zoological Society of London, May 9, 1867, there 

 are some remarks and claims which call upon me for correction. 



\$\., '■'■ Unio Douglasife." It is stated that "in 183:-^ Dr. Gray shortly de- 

 scribed and accurately figured in the I'ith volume of Griffith's edition of Cu- 

 vier a species of Unio^ which he called U. DouglaaimJ'' &c. Further, that "Mr. 

 Lea, some years afterwards, from not knowing the shell as figured in Griffith, 

 described and figured a species from China, which he named U. Murchisonin- 

 ;ms, but which there is no doubt is the same as U. Dougla^ia of Gray." In 

 the above statements there are several to which I beg leave to demur. It is 

 suggested by these gentlemen that "perhaps from not knowing the shell 

 [Douglasix) as figured in Griffith," I had '• described and figured Murchisonia- 

 iius, which there is no doubt is the Domjlasix of Gray." In answer to this I 



1868.] 




146 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



would ask how I could, when I read ray paper on the 16th March, 1832, be- 

 fore the American Philosophical Society, know of a description in Grifiith's 

 Cuvier dated 1834? (not in 1833, as incorrectly cited). Douglamx therefore 

 cannot have precedeuce " of some years," as claimed for it, but it must remain 

 a synonym to Murchisonianus, where I placed it in my Synopsis, first, second, 

 and third editions, since 1836. 



As regards the claim in the same paragraph for If. Shanffhaiensis, Lea, being 

 also a synonym to Douglasice, I am constrained to differ in opinion. Shanghai- 

 ensis is not the same with IJouglasiir, as affirmed, but it is the same with U. 

 Osbeckii, Philippi, the description of which I had not seen. " Concbylien, vol. 

 3d." Some years since I placed it as a synonym to Osbeckiiin. the manuscript 

 copy of my Synopsis, 4th ed., preparing for the press. 



'2d. Anodonia tenuis, Gray, — also called Unio tenuis, Gray, in Griffith's Cu- 

 vier, — is considered to be, by Messrs. Baird and Adams, an Anodonta, and it 

 is said to be little known. This shell does not belong to either of these 

 genera. It is a true Dipsas of Leach, and if Dr. Gray had had a perfect spe- 

 cimen before him when describing Anodonia tenuis, he never would have 

 placed it in that genus. The Dipsuhiun character was evidently obliterated 

 by age in the sijecimen from which he made his diagnosis. The young spe- 

 cimens, and the mature perfect ones, alwaj^s have the tooth (so to call it) ot 

 the genus Dipsas. I described this species in the Transactions of the Ameri- 

 can Philosophical Society, March 15, 1833, under the name of Symphynota 

 discoidea, with a figure perfectly representing the characteristic tooth, which 

 consists of a single raised, sligtitly curved line under the dorsal margin. In 

 my " Synopsis," in the first edition in 1836, as well as in the second and third 

 editions, I gave Dr. Gray's tenuis as a synonym to this shell, which I there 

 placed in the genus Dipsas, where it properly belongs. It must therefore 

 stand as Dipsos discoidea, Lea, with the synonym of Anodonta tenuis, Gray ; my 

 date being 1833, and Dr. Gray's 1834. 



In this paper of Messrs. Baird and Adams, they have described a supposed 

 new species from Shanghai, under the name of Unio (Lampsilis) subtorius. I 

 previously published a description of a species which I believe will prove the 

 same, under the name of iortuosus, in the Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. April 18, 1865. 

 Since then I have found in the "Journal de Conchiliologie," July, 1863, — which 

 work for that year was not accessible to me, — that Messrs. Crosse and De- 

 beaux had given a description and an excellent figure of a Unio of the same 

 twisted character, under the name of Tientsinensis, which, if the figure be en- 

 tirely correct, differs in the form of the posterior slope, and in the undulations 

 of that part. 



I may be permitted to express my surprise that neither the French nor the 

 English authors should have observed the very remarkable character of these 

 Chinese species, which were before them, in being inequivalve! The figure in 

 the Journal de Conchyliologie seems to be very correctly delineated by the art- 

 ist, having represented the inequivalve condition of the right and left valves. 



Messrs. Baird and Adams refer to Tientsinensis, but consider it to differ in 

 some respects from their subtortus, which I think very likely. If Tientsinensis 

 prove to be the same as torluosus and contortus, then the two last must be 

 synonyms. If not, then there will be two species, viz. : Tientsinensis, Grosse 

 and Debeaux, and Iortuosus (nobis), — contortus, B. and A., being a synonym to 

 tortuosus. 



May 5th. 

 Mr. Vaux, Vice-President, in the Chair. 



Twenty-nine members present. 



The following paper was presented for publication : " List of 



[May, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 147 



Birds collected at Laredo, Texas, in 1866 and 1867." By Dr. H. 

 B. Butcher. 



May 12th. 

 Mr. Vaux, Vice-President, in the Chair. 



Thirty-six members present. 



The following were presented for publication : " Description of 

 Four new species of Exotic Unionidre," and " Description of Twen- 

 ty-six new species of Melanidse of the United States." By Isaac 

 Lea, LL.D. 



" Monoecism in Luzula campestris," and " Variations in Epigea 

 repens." By Thos. Meehan. 



Prof. Edw. D. Cope defined the characters of a new genus of Cheloniidae, 

 which re{>resented the modern marine turtles in the Cretaceous green sand of 

 New Jersey. It differed in the considerably greater co-ossification of the 

 disc and marginal bones posteriorly and anieriorly. The anterior rib is at- 

 tached to one marginal in advance of that to which it is connected in Chelone. 

 He called it Osteopygis, and exhibited a specimen of the type species — 0. 

 emarginatus Cope — of which about half the carapace and plastron were 

 preserved, and which indicated an animal of about the size of tlie green tur- 

 tle. It was presented to theAcademy by Dr. Samuel Ashhurst. 



Prof. Cope stated that he was more or less acquainted with four species of 

 the genus : 0. s o p i t u s (Chelone Leidy), 0. chelydrinus Cope, and 0. 

 repandus Cope, all of the same or larger size than the type. 



May 19th. 

 Mr. Vaux, Vice-President, in the Chair. 

 Twenty-nine members present. 



Prof. Cope called attention of the Academy to the rarity of Ophidian re- 

 mains, and to the fact that none had been discovered in North America up 

 to the present time. He then exhibited two vertebra; of a serpent of or near 

 the family of the Boas, from the green sand of Squankum, Monmouth Co., 

 N. J., which had been discovered by Dr. Knieskern. 



Peculiar interest attached to these specimens, from the fact that they 

 came from a bed which has recently been stated, by Conrad, to be an equiva- 

 lent of the older Eocene or London clay of the Thames valle3^ They con- 

 firm this identification exactly, since they belong to Owen's genus Pakeophis, 

 which is characteristic of those beds in England. They indicate a species 

 intermediate between the two larger described by Prof. Owen, and of some 

 fifteen feet in length. It was associated with remains of crocodiles, sting- 

 rays and saw-fishes, and was named, from its geographical and geological 

 location, Palaeophis littoraijs Cope. 



The type specimens belong to the Geological Survey of New Jersey, under 

 Prof. George Cook, and were lent by him for description. 



Dr. Hayden read a letter from Prof. Leo Lesquereux, identifying 

 the fossil plants of the coal formation of the south-west, as follows : 



" I was unwell when your boxes of fossil plants arrived, and was not able 

 to examine the specimens before now. 



1868.] 




148 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



" Most of the leaves, which are well preserved indeed, belong to a new species 

 of Ficus. It resembles Ficus lanccolatus, Heer., a miocene species, but differs 

 by leaves being broader, mostly rounded at base, and not always alternated to 

 the petiole. The medial nerves and shorter pedicel are thicker. Some of 

 the leaves, which are narrower and narrowed to the petiole, present the form 

 and appearance of Ficus lanceolalus, but the specific difference is marked by 

 the thick nerves and shorter petiole. 



'■Among these leaves there are two fragments of leaves of a Cinnaniomum, 

 referrable perhaps to C. affine, Lesqx. ; a large leaf of Platanvs, probably F. 

 aceroides? Aug., whose borders are destroyed, and a Fopulus with round 

 leaves — Fopuhis subrotundus, Lesqx. — found also by Dr. Hayden at Rock Creek. 



'• Besides these species, the specimens show a number of fragments of a 

 Ci/pert/s, apparently a new species. The nervation is that of Cyperus chara- 

 riensis, Heer., but the leaves, 1^^ inches broad, are twice as broad as in the 

 European species." 



Dr. Hayden considered this as confirming his opinion that the lignite beds 

 of that region were of tertiary age. 



Dr. Le Oonte said that the question of the geological age of that section 

 must be solved by a consideration of the relative positions of the strata, 

 rather than by comparison of the fossil plants found therein. 



May 2m. 

 Mr. Cassin, Vice-President, in the Chair. 



Thirty-nine members present. 



The following gentlemen -were elected members : Mr. Edward 

 Lewis, Jas. Truman, M. D., Wm. Trueman, M. D., Mr. S. Fisher 

 Corlies, Mr. T. W. Starr, Edw. Rhoads, M.D., T. H. Andrews, M.D., 

 Herbert Norris, M. D., Mr. Jas. S. Gilliams, Mr. Charles Bullock, 

 Mr. Edw. L. Huitt, Mr. I. Zentmayer, Mr. Aug. F. Muller, F. F. 

 Maury, M.D., Horace Williams, M.D., Mr. Wm.^H. Walmsley, Mr. 

 T. L. Buckingham. 



The following were elected correspondents : Mr. Augustus Fendler, 

 of Allenton, Mo. ; Hon. J. S. Wilson, of Washington, D.C. ; Mr. A. R. 

 Roesler, Washington, D. C. ; Prof. John Tomes, F.R.S., of London. 



On favorable reports of the committees, the following papers 

 were ordered to be published : 



List of BIRDS collected at Laredo, Texas, in 1866 and 1867. 

 BY H. B. BUTCHER, M. D. 



The list of birds here given embraces the species collected by me at La- 

 redo, Texas, on the Rio Grande river, while engaged as Acting Assistant Sur- 

 geon of the U. S. Army ; and is presented as a contribution to the subject of 

 the geographical distribution of the birds of North America. No new species 

 but many quite rare species were procured. The most interesting result of my 

 examinations at Laredo was the discovery in abundance of Scardafella inca, a 

 species not previously obtained north of the Rio Grande. 



The collections made were first sent to the Smithsonian Institution, and a 

 series afterwards presented to this Academy. I am indebted to Prof. Baird for 

 assistance in identifying the sjiecies. 



A comparison of this list with that of the birds collected in Texas by Mr. 

 Dresser will be found of interest. 



[May, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 149 



Tinnunculus sparverius, Vieill. Nov., Jan. and Feb. 



Accipiter fuscus, Bonap. Jan. 



Buteo swainsoni, Bonap. July. 



Buteo borealis, Vieill. Jan. 



Polyborus Audubonii, Cassin. Jan. 



Athene bypugasa, Bonap. Oct., Jan. 



Bubo virginianus, Bonap. Oct. 



Geococcyx calitbrnianus, Baird. May to Sept. Abundant. 



Coccygus erythrophthalmus, Bp. June to Aug. 



Picus scalaris, Wai/ler. June to Nov. Abundant. 



Centurus flaviventris, Sw. June to Nov. Abundant. 



Antrostomus nuttalli, Cassin. Sept., Feb. 



Chordeiles texensis, Lawr. May to Sept. 



Ceryle alcyon, Bote. Oct. 



Tyranuus verticalis, Say. May. 



Myiarchus crinitus. Cab. Aug. and Sept. 



Myiarchus mexicanus, Baird. Aug. 



Sayornis fuscus, Baird. Nov. 



Sayornis sayus, Baird. Nov., Jan., Feb. 



Contopus virens, Cab. May. 



Empidonax pusillus. Cab. May. 



Empidonax flaviventris, Baird. Aug. 



Turdus migratorius, Lin. Jan. 



Sialia sialis, Baird. Nov. 



Sialia arctica. Swains. Feb. 



Anthus ludovicianus, Licht. Nov., Dec. 



Regulus calendula, Licht. Dec, Feb. 



Geothlypis Philadelphia, Baird. Sept. 



Helminthophaga celata, Baird. Nov., Jan., Feb. 



Dendroica iestiva, Baird. May, Aug., Sept. 



Dendroica corouata, Gray. Dec, Jan. 



Myiodioctes pusillus, Bonap. Sept. 



Pyranga festiva, Vieill. Aug. 



Cotyle serripennis, Boie. May, June, March. 



Ampelis cedrorum, Baird. March. 



CoUyrio excubitoroides, Baird. April and Sept. to Nov., Jan., Feb. 



Vireo gilvus, Bonap. May. 



Vireo belli, Aud. May, June, Aug. 



Mimus polyglottus, Boie. April to Oct., Dec. to Feb. 



Oreoscoptes niontanus, Baird. April, May to Nov., Dec. to March. Abundant. 



Harporhynchus curvirostris, Cassin. April to Nov., Feb. Abundant. 



Harporhynchus longirostris, Cassin. May, Nov., Jan. 



Campylorhynchus brunneicapillus, Grai/. May, June, Nov., Feb. 



Salpinctes obsoletus, Cab. May, Nov., Oct., Dec, Feb. 



Thryothorus bewickii, Bonap. Nov. to Feb. 



Polioptila caerulea, Sclat. July, Aug., Oct. 



Lophophanes atricristatus, Cass. Aug., Nov. 



Paroides flaviceps, Baird. May to Sept., Jan., Feb. Abundant. 



Eremophila cornuta, Boie. Nov., Dec 



Chrysomitris tristis, Bonap, Dec. 



Plectrophanes maccownii, Lawr. Dec. 



Chondestes gramniaca, Bonap. April, Sept. to Nov. Abundant. 



Zonotrichia leucophrys, Sw. April, Dec to Feb. 



Zonotrichia gambelii, Gambol. Jan. 



Poospiza bilineata, Sclat. June to Oct. Abundant. 



Melospiza heermaiini, Baird. Jan. 



Peuciea cassini, Baird. June. 



Melospiza lincolnii, Baird. Dec. 



1868.] 




150 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Embernagra rufivirgata, Lawr. Nov. 



Calamospiza bicolor, Bonap. Nov. 



Euspiza americana, Bonap. Aug. 



Giiiraca ci^rulea, Sw. ^May, June, Oct. 



Cyaiiospiza ciris. Baird. April to Aug. Abundant. 



Pyrrhuloxia sinuata, Bonap. April to Sept., Dec. to Feb. Abundant. 



Cardinalis virginianus, Bonap. May to Aug., Nov., Dec. Abundant. 



Pipilo chlorura, Baird. Dec, Jan. 



Molothrus pecoris, Sw. A\n-\\ to July, Jan. Abundant. 



Xanthocephalus icterocephalus. April, Ma3^ 



Sturnella neglecta, Aud. Oct. and Nov. Abundant. 



Sturnella magna, Sw. Dec. 



Icterus cucullatus, Sio. June. 



Icterus spurius, Bonap. June, Aug. 



Icterus buUockii, Bonap. May to Aug. Abundant. 



Scolecophagus cyanoceplialus, Sw. Nov., Feb. 



Quiscalus macroura, Siv. June. 



Corvus cryptoleucus. Couch. Feb., March. 



Zeuaidura carolinensis, Bonap. April to July. 



Scardafella inca, Bonap. May, Sept. to Nov., Dec, Feb., March. Abundant. 



Ortyx texanus, Lawr. Oct., Nov., Dec. 



Callipepla squamata, Gray. April to Nov., Feb. Abundant. 



Grus canadensis, Temm. Jan. 



Ardea herodias, Linn. Jan. 



Nyctherodius violaceus, Reich. Sept. 



Aegialitis vociferus, Cass. April, May, Aug., Sept. 



Tringa wilsonii, Nuttall. Oct., Dec. 



Ereunetes petrificatus. 111. 



Actiturus bartramius, Bonap. Aug. 



Tringites ruiescens. Cab. 



Pelecanus fuscus, Linn. May. 



Descriptions of four new species of Exotic UNIONID.ffi. 



BY ISAAC LEA. 



Anodonta Strebelii. — Testa IbbvI, elliptica, ina?quilaterali, postice obtuse an- 



gulata, antice rotuudata; valvulis pertenuibus ; natibus prominulis ; epidermide 



tenebroso-viridi, radiis capillaris indutis ; margarita cterulea et valde irides- 



cente. 



Hah. — Vera Cruz, Mexico ; Dr. G. Strebel, per Smithsonian Institution. 



Unio Veracruzensis. — Testa l<evi, elliptica, subcompressa, ina?quilaterali, 

 postice obtuse angulata, antice rotundata ; valvulis tenuibus ; natibus promi- 

 nulis; epidermide tenebroso-fusca, radiata politaque ; dentibus cardinalibus 

 parvis, compressis, crenulatis, in utroque valvule duplicibus ; lateralibus longis, 

 rectis lamellatisque ; margarita caerulea et valde iridescente. 



Hub. — Vera Cruz, Mexico ; Dr. G. Strebel, per Smithsonian Institution. 



Unio prunoides. — Testa laevi, elliptica, valde ventricosa, inaequilaterali, an- 

 tice et postice rotundata ; valvulis subcrassis, antice aliquanto crassioribus ; 

 natibus prolninulis ; epidermide tenebroso-fusca, eradiata ; dentibus cardinali- 

 bus compressis, obliquis et valde crenulatis ; lateralibus longis, lamellatis 

 corrugatisque ; margarita argcntea. 



Unio Chinensis. — Testa nodulosa, subelliptica, inflata, fere jequilaterali, 

 postice obtuse angulata, antice rotundata ; valvulis crassiusculis, antice 

 crassioribus; natibus subprominentibus, ad apices corrugatis ; epidermide vi- 

 rido-lutea, radiis viridis undique indutis ; dentibus cardinalibus erectis, com- 

 pressis, striatis, crenulatis et in utroque valvule subduplicibus ; lateralibus 

 sublongis subrectisque ; margarita argentea et valde iridescente. 



[May. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA, 151 



Descriptions Of Twenty-six New Species of MELANIDS: of the United States. 

 BY ISAAC LEA, 



GoNiOBASis Wheatleyi. — Testa striata, subfugiforrai, subinflata, subcrassa, 

 ochracea, vel vittata vel evittata ; spira conoidea, ad apicem aliquanto plica- 

 ta ; suturis irregulariter impressis ; anfractibus instar senis, fere planulatis ; 

 aperiura subconstricta ; ovata, iatus ochracea; labro acuto, parum sinuoso; 

 columella inflecta, reflexa et tortuosa. 



Hab. — Coosa River, Alabama, Dr. Showalter. 



GoxiOBASis siMiLis — Testa striata, subfusiformi, subtenui, luteo-cornea ; 

 spira brevi, ad apicem plicata ; suturis impressis ; anfractibus instar senis, 

 vix convexis ; apenura subgrandi, ovata, intus luteo-alba ; labro acuto; 

 columella inflecta et tortuosa. 



Hab. — Connesauga Creek, Georgia, Major T. C. Downie. 



GoNiOBASis SULCATA. — Tcsta Striata, conica, subcrassa, mellea, evittata ; 

 spira obtusa; suturis irregulariter impressis; anfractibus instar seplenis, 

 planulatis, ad apicem plicatis ; apertura parviuscula, rhomboidea, intus alba, 

 labro acuto, sinuoso ; columella inflecta, incrassato. 



Hab. — Cahawba River, Alabama, Dr. Showalter. 



GoNiOBASis ARATA. — Testa valde striata, conoidea, subtenui, cornea, vel 

 vittata vel evittata; spira elevata ; suturis impressis ; anfractibus septenis, 

 planulatis, ad apicem carinatis et plicatis ; apertura parva, ovata, intus albi- 

 da ; labro aliquanto crenulato ; columella inflecta, ad basim retrorsa. 



Hab. — Connesauga Creek, Georgia, Maj. T. C. Downie. 



GoNioBASis Gesnerii. — Tcsta striata, fusiformi, tenui, tenebroso-oliva; 

 spira subbnvi ; suturis impressis; anfractibus instar septenis, planulatis; 

 apertura grandi, late ovata, intus lugubri ; labro acuto, parum sinuoso; 

 columella purpurescente et valde contorta. 



Hab. — Uchee River, Alabama, Mr. W. Gesner. 



GoNiOBASis TENEBROSA. — Tcsta valde striata, subfusiformi, subcrassa, tene- 

 brosa ; spira brevi ; suturis irregulariter impressis ; anfractibus instar quinis, 

 vix convexis ; apertura grandi, ovata, intus tenebroso-purpurea ; labro sub- 

 crenulato ; columella inflecta et parum contorta. 



Hab. — Connesauga Creek, Georgia, Maj. T. C. Downie. 



GoNioBASis BiFASCiATA. — Tcsta plicata, aliquanto striata, subcrassa, luteola, 

 bifasciata ; spira obtusa, valde plicata ; suturis irregulariter impressis ; an- 

 fractibus instar senis, planulatis; apertura parviuscula, subrotunda, inius 

 albida ; labro acuto, parum sinuoso ; columella albida et contorta. 



Hab. — Jackson Co., Alabama, Dr. Spillman. 



GoNiOBASis CLATHRATA. — Tcsta plicata et striata, pyramidata, tenui, dilute 

 cornea, efasciata ; spira exerta, acuminata; suturis impressis; anfractibus 

 octonis, convexiusculis ; apertura parviuscula, rliomboidea, intus vel albida 

 vel purpurea ; labro crenulato, subsinuoso ; columella valde contorta. 



Hab. — Jackson Co., Alabama, Dr. Spillman. 



GoNioBASis PULCHELLA. — Tcsta plicata, subturrita, subtenui, rufo-cornea, 

 vittata; spira elevata ; suturis irregulariter impressis ; anfractibus instar no- 

 venis, convexiuscula ; apertura parviuscula, ovata, inius albida; labro acuto ; 

 columella inflecta et tortuosa. 



Hab. — Morth Alabama, Dr. Spillman. 



GoNioBASis LUTEOCELLA. — Tcsta plicata et striata, fusiformi, subcrassa, 

 ochracea, vittata vel evittata ; spira brevi ; suturis irregulariter impressis ; an- 

 fractibus quinis, convexiusculis ; apertura grandi, ovata, intus luteo-alba ; 

 labro acuto; columella superne incrassata et valde contorta. 



Hab. — Connesauga Creek, Georgia, Maj. T. C. Downie. 



1868.] 




152 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



GoNiOBASis CoNNKSADGABNSis. — Testa pUcata, iaferne striata, subfusiformi, 

 subtenui, vel mellea vel ocbracea vel tenebroso-fusca, nitida ; spira, conoidea ; 

 suturis iuipressis ; anfractibus septenis, planulatis ; apertura subcoustricta, 

 rhomboidea, intus luteola vel tenebroso-fusca; labro acuto ; columella in- 

 flecta et tortuosa. 



Hab. — Conaesauga Creek, Georgia, Maj. T. G. Dowaie. 



GoNiOBASis CONTIGITA. — Testa laevi, subfusiformi, tenui, tenebroso-oliva, 

 evittata ; spira subelevata ; suturis impressis ; aafractibus instar quinis. con- 

 vexiusculis ; apertura grandi, subrhombica, intus albida; labro acuto, sinuo- 

 so ; columella vix incrassata et valde contorta. 



Hab. — Connesauga Creek, Georgia, Maj. T. C. Downie. 



GONIOBASIS Mdrratensis. — Testa Ifevi, fusiformi, inflata, subtenui, tene- 

 broso-cornea, evittata; spira conoidea, ad apicem plicata ; suturis aliquanto 

 impressis; anfractibus instar senis, subplanulatis ; apertura magna, sub- 

 rhomboidea, intus luteola; labro acuto, parum sinuoso ; columella infliecta 

 et tortuosa. 



Hah. — Swamp Creek, Murray Co., Ga.. Maj. T. C. Downie. 



GoNioBASis GRANATOiDES. — Testa granulaia, inferne striata, subfusiformi, 

 subtenui, cornea ; spira conoidea, ad apicem plicata; suturis impressis; an- 

 ft'actibus instar senis, vix convexis ; apertura subgrandi, ovata, intus luteo- 

 alba ; labro acuto; columella tortuosa. 



Hah. — Connesauga Creek, Georgia, Maj. T. C. Downie. 



GoNioBASis CLAVULA. — Testa carinata, aliquanto plicata, tenui, tenebroso- 

 castanea, efasciata; spira exerta, acuminata; suturis regulariter impressis ; 

 anfractibus instir octonis, planulatis ; apertura parvissima, ovata, intus cas- 

 tanea; labro acuto; columella alba et contorta. 



Hah. — Jackson Co., Alabama, Dr. Spillman. 



GoNiOBASis cocHLiARis. — Testa carinata et striata, cylindracea, tenui, tene- 

 broso-fusca, evittata; spira attenuata; suturis valde impressis ; anfractibus 

 instar novenis, ad apicem valde carinatis, inferne striatis ; apertura parvis- 

 sima, late elliptica, intus teuebroso ; labro subcrenato ; columella inflecta, 

 ad basim incrassata. 



Hak. — Shelby Co., Alabama, Maj. T. C. Downie. 



GoNiOBASis VENUSTA. — Tcsta subcariuata, conoidea, subtenui, mellea, evit- 

 tata; spira elevata ; suturis regulariter impressis ; anfractibus planulatis, in- 

 star septenis ; apertura parva, rliomboidea, intus albida ; labro acuto ; colu- 

 mella inflecta et valde contorta. 



Hah. — Coosa River, Alabama, Dr. ShowaSter. 



GoNioBASis ORNATA. — Tcsta Carinata, subturrita, tenui, olivacea, valde 

 vitatta ; spira elevata, superne plicata; suturis valde impressis; anfractibus 

 septenis, planulatis; apertura parviuscula, subrhomboidea, intus vittata ; 

 labro acuto, aliquanto sinuoso ; columella vix incrassata et valde contorta. 



Hah. — Connesauga Creek, Georgia, Maj. T. C. Downie. 



Trypanostoma nuciforme. — Testa Isevi, obtuse conica, inflata, crassiuscula, 

 castanea ; spira brevi, obtusa ; suturis regulariter impressis ; anfractibus instar 

 quinis, convexiusculis ; apertura magna, rbomboidea; labro acuto ; expanso, 

 sinuoso ; columella inflecta et valde tortuosa. 



Hah. — Connesauga Creek, Georgia, Maj. T. C. Downie. 



Trypanostoma castanedm. — ^Testa Itevi, pyramidata, subtenui, castanea, 

 obsolete fasciata ; spira exerta, acuminata; suturis impressis ; anfractibus 

 instar novenis, planulatis; apertura parviuscula, rhomboidea, intus dilute 

 purpurea ; labro acuto, sigmoideo ; columella parum incrassata et valde 

 contorta. 



Hah, — Coosa River, Alabama, Dr. Showalter. 



[May 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 153 



Trypanostoma Wheatleyi. — Testa hpvi, pyramidata, tenui, dilute rubigi- 

 nosa, vel fasciata vel efasciata ; spira exserta, acuminata; suturis regulariter 

 impressis ; anfractibus iastar denis; planulatis, ad apicem carinatis ; apertura 

 parviuscula, rhomboidea, intus albida ; labro acuto, sigmoideo ; colutfrella ad 

 basim parum incrassata et valde contorta. 



Ilab. — Coosa River, Alabama, Dr. Showalter. 



Trypanostoma terebrale. — Testa Isevi, pyramidata, tenui, olivacea, vel 

 vittata vel evittata ; spira valde exserta ; suturis valde impressis ; anfractibus 

 instar duodenis, planulatis, ad apicem carinatis ; apertura parviuscula, rhom- 

 boidea, intus albida vel vittata; labro acuto, sinuoso ; columella impressa et 

 valde contorta. 



Hub. — Jackson Co., Alabama, Dr. W. Spillman. 



LiTHASiA purpurea. — Tcsta Icevi, curta, subcylindracea, subcrassa, tene- 

 broso-purpurea ; spira brevissima ; suturis valde impressis ; anfractibus in- 

 star quinis, convesiusoulis ; apertura grandi, rhomboidea, intus saturale pur- 

 purea; labro acuto, vix sinuoso; columella impressa, superne incrassata. 



Hab. — Cahawba River, at Centreville, Bibb Co., Ala., Dr. Showalter. 



LiTHASiA CURTA. — Tcsta graoulata, curta, solida, luteo-olivacea, plerumque 

 bifasciata ; spira brevi ; suturis irregulariter impressis ; anfractibus instar 

 quinis, planulatis ; apertura subgraudi, rhomboidea, intus albida ; labro 

 acuto, subsinuoso ; columella inferae et superne incrassata. 



Ilab. — North Alabama, Prof. Tuomey and Dr. Spillman ; Tuscumbia, B. 

 Pybus. 



ScHizosTOMA Wheatleyi. — Tcsta striata, subfusiformi, subtenui, luteola, 

 imperforata, vittata; spira obtuso-couoidea; suturis irregulariter impressis ; 

 anfractibus instar senis, vittatis, ultimo grandi ; fissura obliqua brevique ; 

 apertura parviuscula, ovata, intus alb.i et vittata; labro subcrenulato ; colu- 

 mella alba, incrassata et contorta. 



Hab. — Coosa River, Dr. Showalter. 



Anculosa Downiei. — Testa plicata et obsolete striata, subglobosa, crassa, 

 tenebroso-oliva, maculata ; spira vix prominulis, plicatis ; sf^ituris impressis ; 

 anfractibus vix ternis, ultimo grandi et ventricoso ; apertura grandi, subro- 

 tunda, intus fusco-maculata; labro acuto; columella impressa et incrassata. 



Ilab. — Connesaugd Creek, Georgia, Maj. T. C. Downie ; Coosa River, Ala- 

 bama, Dr. Showalter. 



Variations in EPIG.EA REPENS. 



BY THOMAS MEEHAN. 



There are yet many botanists who regard variations as accidents. They 

 speak of a normal form as something essential ; and departures from their idea 

 of a type, they refer to external causes, independent of any inherent power of 

 change in the plant itself. Hence, when a change of form occurs to them, it 

 is usually referred to shade, to sunlight, to an unusual season, situation, or 

 some geological peculiarity of the soil. Cultivation is denounced as inter- 

 fering with botanical science; introducing and originating innumerable forms, 

 defying the skill of the botanist to classify or arrange. My experience in 

 plant culture, and as an observer of plants in a state of nature, leads to the 

 conclusion that there is no greater power to vary in the one case than in the 

 other; that there is as much variation in the perfectly wild plant, as in those 

 under the best gardener's skill. To illustrate this I gathered a great number of 

 ?,]}&Q.iviiQn.s 0^ Antennaria plantagimfolia, \x\\\c\\, X\\ongh I do not believe has a 

 greater average power of variation than any other plant, affords a good example 

 for the following reasons : The small seeds I believe require a clear surface of 



1868.] 11 




154 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



ground to vegetate, and young plants therefore never appear in a meadow or 

 grassy place. In such positions plants only exist that had a footing in advance 

 of the grass. They then propagate exclusively by runners. After being two 

 or thre« years in this situation they form patches of one or several square feet 

 each. Now it is not easy to appreciate a minute difference between one single 

 specimen and another; but when a score or more of specimens of one are 

 matched against a similar number of the other, the minutia; make an aggre- 

 gate which is readily estimated. So we shall find in the case of a two or three 

 year old meadow, filled with this plant, that not only are no two patches alike, 

 but that the eye convinces us of the fact on the first glance over the field. 

 Plain as the differences thus presented were, I found, however, some difficulty 

 in describing them in language ; and besides being a dioecious plant there 

 might be brought in the objection of intercrossing between allied species of 

 this or neighboring genera, if not of the individuals of the opposite sexes them- 

 selves, to account for so many forms. I therefore chose Epigiea, as belonging 

 to a natural order exclusively hermaphrodite ; containing only one natural 

 species; not vei-y closely allied to any of the neighboring genera, Andromeda, 

 Clethra, Gaultheria, &c. ; none of which, at any rate, flower at the same time 

 with it. 



On the 19th of April I gathered specimens from sixteen different plants on 

 the Wissahickon, without taking any pains to make any particular selection of 

 varieties. The following descriptions show their variations : 



1. Tube of the corolla half inch long, contracted in the middle ; segments of 

 the corolla broadly ovate, one-third the length of the tube, incurved, pure white. 

 Scales of the calyx two-thirds the length of the tube, narrowly lanceolate, in- 

 terior ones white and membranaceous with a crimson base. 



2. Tube half inch, regularly cylindrical ; segments half as long as the tube, 

 triangularly ovate, light rose, incurved. Scales one-third the length of the 

 tube, white, coriaceous. 



3. Tube quarter inch, thick (one-eighth wide), cylindrical ; segments rather 

 longer than the tube, triangularly ovate, incurved, deep rosy pink. Scales 

 three-fourths the length of the tube, rosy red, with white margins. 



4. Tube nearly half inch, contracted at the summit ; segments very short, 

 scarcely one-sixteenth of an inch, forming nearly five ovate repand teeth, 

 purplish white. Scales greenish white, simply acute. 



5. Tube quarter inch long, one-eighth wide ; segments lanceolate, erect, 

 two-thirds as long as the tube, rosy purple. Scales brown, not margined, 

 drawn out to a long fine point. 



6. Tube quarter inch, cylindrical ; segments oblong ovate, recurved, as long 

 as the tube. One of the anthei's slightly 2>etaloid. Scales prolonged into 

 almost an awn. 



7. Tube much narrowed at the summit, quarter inch long; segments less 

 than one-sixteenth of an inch long, pale purple. Scales greenish brown, very 

 narrow. 



8. Tube near half inch, contracted in the middle; segments quarter inch, 

 linear lanceolate, bright rose. Scales half the length of the tube, broadly 

 ovate, membranaceous, simply sharp pointed. 



9. Tube half inch, cylindrical; segments quarter inch, of which there are 

 but three broadly ovate, white. 



10. Tube nearly three-quarters inch, cylindrical ; segments quarter inch, 

 narrowly ovate. Scales as long as the tube, linear lanceolate, pale green. 



11. Tube less than quarter inch, and shorter than the luxuriant foliaceous, 

 mucronate scales. Segments of the corolla two-thirds as long as the tube, 

 broadly ovate, pure white. 



12. Tube quarter inch, increasing slightly in width upwardly (funnel- 

 shaped), one-eighth thick at the top of the tube ; segments short, ovate, re- 

 flexed, light pink. Scales longer than the tube, green, white margined. 



13. Tube quarter inch, much contracted in tlie middle ; segments quarter 



[May 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 155 



inch, broad ovate. Scales half the length of the tube, brown, with white 

 margins. 



14. Tube under half inch, thick, perfectly cylindrical ; segments quarter 

 inch, broad linear, and rounded at the apex, waxy white. Scales quarter inch 

 long, brown, with membranaceous margins. 



15. Tube full three-quarters inch, cylindrical ; segments quarter inch, tri- 

 angularly ovate, pale rose. Scales half inch, narrow and drawn out to an 

 awn-like point. 



16. Tube half inch, cylindrical. Scales less than one-sixteenth of an inch, 

 broad ovate, green, and barely pointed. 



On again examining No. 12, after making these notes, I was surprised to 

 find no trace of stamens, but with the pistil perfect ; and on examining the 

 other specimens I found three out of the fifteen were pistillate also. Another 

 remarkable fact was that all these i)istils had the fine cleft stigmas strongly 

 recurved, exposing a glutinous surface; while the hermaphrodite ones kept the 

 apex of the pistils closed. The ovaries of the pistillate forms were also evi- 

 dently better developed than those in the hermaphrodite condition, and the 

 inference was that the plant was practically dioecious. 



On the third of May I returned to the locality and found this hypothesis in 

 all probability correct. The pistillate plants were in proportion about one- 

 third that of the hermaphrodite, and could be readily distinguished after the 

 flower had faded by the recurved stigmas above noted. All the plants that 

 had shed their corollas were pistillate ; the apparently hermaphrodite jjlants 

 having their corollas dry on the receptacles from which it was not easy to 

 separate them — the scales of the calyx and a part of the stem coming away 

 with them. This is so well known a feature of impregnation in the develop- 

 ment of a fruit, that I need not dwell much on the importance of this fact, as 

 showing the fertility of the pistillate, and the sterility of the opposite form. 



I engaged friends to furnish me specimens from other places. Dr. James 

 Darrach finds them, as I have above described, in another locality on the Wis- 

 sahickon. Miss Anderson sends me ten specimens from Edge Hill, Mont- 

 gomery County, Pa., amongst which two are purely pistillate, the rest varying 

 much as in the Wissahickon specimens. Mr. Isaac Burk finds pistillate plants 

 abound at Mount Ephraim, New Jersey, but there are abortive filaments with- 

 out anthers, and he sends me one specimen of this character. Mr. Charles E. 

 Smith sends me a dozen or so specimens from Haddonfield, hermaphrodite, 

 and so exactly alike that they probably all come from one plant. Mr. E. Dif- 

 fenbaugh sends ten specimens from another place in New Jersey, all with 

 anthers, but varying from nearly no filaments to filaments three-eighths of an 

 inch long ; varying also in the proportionate lengths of scales, tubes and seg- 

 ments ; but not near as much as in tiie Wissahickon specimens. Prof. Cope 

 sends samples from Delaware County, Pa. These are varied like the Wissa- 

 hickon ones ; and Mr. Cope remarks to me that the pistillate forms are so dis- 

 tinctly characterized, by the vasiform recurved corollas and other characters, 

 that he can readily distinguish them as he walks along. 



Has this peculiarity of Epigcea repens been overlooked by the many botanists 

 who must have critically examined it heretofore? Or has the plant reached a 

 stage of development when germs of new forms spring actively into life ? 



In a paper on Lopezia, published in the last volume of the Proceedings, I 

 showed that the sexual organs of that genus were admirably arranged to pre- 

 vent the pollen of a flower falling on its own stigma. This behavior of Epiyxa 

 adds another to the list of plants, now so extensive, known to have an ab- 

 horrence of self-fertilization. It may not be out of place to hazard a reason 

 for this course : 



There would seem to be two distinct principles in relation to form going 

 along together with the life of a sjiecies. The tendency of the one force is to 

 preserve the existing form ; the other to modify, and extend it to newer chan- 

 nels The first we represent by the term inheritance, the other we understand 



1868.] 




156 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



as variation. Inheritance struggles to have the plant fertilize itself with its 

 own pollen ; whilst the efforts of variation are towards an intermixture of 

 races or even neighboring individuals, rather than with members of the one 

 brood or family. May it not be possible that at some time in their past his- 

 tory all species of plants have been hermaphrodite ? that DicEcism is a later 

 triumph of variation, its final victory in the struggle with inheritance ? There 

 are some difficulties in the way of such a theory, as there are with most of 

 these theories ; but it seems clear from this case of Epfffiea that cultivation has 

 not eo much to do with changes as it gets credit for, and we may readily be- 

 lieve that, independently of external circumstances, there is a period of youth 

 and a period of old age inform as well as in substance, and that we may there- 

 fore look for a continual creation of new forms by a process of vital develop- 

 ment, just as rationally as for the continued succession of new individuals. 



The discovery of dioecism in Epigwa is interesting from the fact that it is 

 probably the first instance known in true Ericaciea. In the Ericale suborder 

 of Francoacceay abortive stamens are characteristic of the family, and in the 

 Pyrolaciea antlierless filaments have been recorded. 



Monoecism in LUZULA CAMPESTRIS. 

 BY THOMAS MEEHAK. 



The recent discovery, that many plants structurally hermaphrodite are 

 practically monoecious or dioecious, in consequence of the flower being so 

 arranged as to prevent self-impregnation, is so interesting that every additional 

 fact bearing on the subject has a value. 



Luzula campestris, D. C, adds another to the list. The three stigmas are 

 protruded through the apex of the flower bud some days before the sepals open 

 and expose the anthers. In the specimens I marked for observations, six days 

 elapsed before the flower opened, after the pistils had been protruded to be 

 operated on by the pollen of other flowers. This was in a cloudy week, and 

 probably the exact time might vary with the weather. In all cases the stigmas 

 wither away before the flower opens. 



After fertilization the stigmas generally twist around one another, and after 

 the anthers have shed their pollen they twist in the same way, withering up 

 in a very short time. An interesting fact in Luzula is the slight adhesion at 

 the articulation of the subpedicels with the main flower stalk, — the gentlest 

 force being sufficient to draw thera out of their sheaths. It is perhaps owing 

 to this weakness that the pedicels are often drooping when in fruit. 



June 2d, 1868. 

 Mr. Vaux, Vice-President, in the Chair. 

 Twenty-five members present. 



The following papers were presented for publication : 



" Description of seven new species of Unio from North Carolina." 

 By Isaac Lea. 



" Descriptions of two new species of Unionidse from Equador." 

 By Isaac Lea. 



" New Unionidse, Melanidse, &c., chiefly of the United States." 

 By Isaac Lea. 



" On Agaphelus, a genus of toothless Cetacea." By Edw. D. Cope. 



Dr. Leidy called attention to some specimens of Sombrero Guano 

 containing about 90 per cent, of phosphate of lime. This substance 



[June, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 157 



was noticed some years ago by him under the name of Ossite. A 

 similar material has been found near Charleston, S. C, in a post- 

 pliocene formation. 



E. D. Cope gave an account of his discovery of tlae fresli-water origin of 

 certain deposits of sand and clays in west New Jersey, whicli he found to con- 

 tain leaves of dicotyledonous trees, ctenoid fish scales, and numerous Unionidje 

 in a tolerably good state of preservation. The most important part of the 

 deposit consisted of a heavy black clay, which is used for making brick, which 

 rests on a bed of hard laminated clay, with a thin layer of iron-stone between. 

 The clay bed, at one place examined, is 25 feet in thickness, and at from one 

 to three feet from its bottom occurs a bed of fresh water mussels. These are 

 Unios and Anodontas of si.x; species, all of them, as pointed out to him by Dr. 

 Lea, hitherto undescribed, and having some analogy with those of the Wealden, 

 procured by Dr. Mantell in England. The beds are from tlie top of the clay 

 down, conformable, and have a dip of about 2.5° to the soutli-east. The upper 

 surface of the clay is worn into holes, which are filled by the material of abed 

 of coarse gravel of little depth, which covers the whole. Above this is a bed 

 of fine sand, varying from six to fifteen feet in thickness to the soil. The point 

 at which the section is visible is in New Jersey, ou the banks of the Delaware, 

 about six miles above Camden, N. J. 



These deposits belong to Meek and Hayden's Earlier Cretaceous, No. 1, 

 which contains abundant remains of leaves on the Raritan River, but no 

 animal fossils. Their age has been heretofore quite uncertain ; they have been 

 stated by Meek and Hayden to be the earlier division of the later Cretaceous of 

 the general geologic series. They extend across the States of Delaware, Mary- 

 land and Virginia. In Maryland they are stated by Ducatel to contain the 

 important deposits of carbonate of iron ; and Philip Tyson, State Geologist, 

 informs me that these beds lie upon the red and blue clays, forming hills, 

 which have been produced by erosion of tlie valleys to the beds below. These 

 iron clays contain several species of Cycadaceous plants, whence Tyson infers 

 the age of the clays to be Jurassic, and not Cretaceous. 



There are in the Museum of the Smithsonian Institution, Washington, several 

 specimens of fossil Unios, from a ferruginous clay which crops out at some 

 elevation on the banks of the Potomac. These species are identical with those 

 which have been found in the New Jersey clays, and the deposit is doubtless 

 the same as that which traverses the State of Maryland. 



Indurated grey clays on the Rappahannock River have been examined by my 

 friend Philip R. Uhler, of Baltimore, who has obtained from them leaves and 

 stems of some six species of plants, in beautiful preservation, of the orders 

 Cycadacete, ? Gnetacea; and Filices. The position and character of this bed 

 renders it exceedingly probable that it is a continuation of those of Maryland 

 and Alexandria. 



The vvhole formation indicates the existence of an extended body of fresh 

 water, having a direction and outline similar to that in which were deposited 

 the red sandstones and shales of the Triassic belt, which extends parallel to its 

 north-west margin throughout the States in which it occurs, separated, except 

 in New Jersey, by a broad band of Gneiss, and Potsdam rocks. The carbonate 

 of iron was no doubt deposited in a bog or bogs along its margin or in its 

 shallows, as the bottom became elevated, as suggested by Tyson, — though not 

 in a salt-water swamp, as supposed by him. The cycads and dicotyledonous 

 trees grew in the swamps and on the shores, while terrestrial reptiles of large 

 size no doubt haunted their sliades. 



These beds appear to dip conformably beneath the lower Cretaceous marine 

 beds in New Jersey, in which, at a distance of a few miles from their border, 

 occurred the remains of the Hadrosaurus ; and it is therefore not probable that 

 they were cotemporary with these, as is the case with the Wealden of Kent 



1868.] 




158 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



and the Cretaceous at Maidstone, England. The Hadrosaurus clays, belonging 

 to the upper Cretaceous, as indicated by the presence of many molluscs of the 

 Ripley Group of Mississippi, appear indeed to be separated from the clays in 

 question by a great lapse of time. The age is therefore probably truly Wealden 

 or Neocomian. 



These facts indicate the existence of a barrier to the eastward of their present 

 position, which for a long period prevented the access of salt water. This 

 barrier was no doubt an anticlinal of the Appallachian series, outside of that 

 which walled in the Triassic fresh-water area, and, like it, parallel with the 

 general series of anticlinals of the present Allegheny range. That it was, like 

 the latter, at one time submarine, and, gradually rising, finally enclosed the 

 area in question, the waters of which soon became fresh, from the numerous 

 rivers which flowed into it. 



On the gradual elevation of this fresh-water valley, with its included beds 

 of clays, etc., the Delaware river cut its way through the latter nearly to the 

 south-eastern rise, and was then deflected along the base of these first eleva- 

 tions of the bounding anticlinal, in a south-west direction. Thus is accounted 

 for the apparently singular phenomenon of the great bend of the Delaware 

 River, near Bordentown. For after penetrating the high ranges of the Blue 

 Mountains, it remains to be turned, apparently, in a level country of sands 

 and clays. 



We must suppose the coast line to have been not far from the south-eastern 

 base of this anticlinal, and that a subsequent submergence brought the marine 

 deposits near to the margin of the fresh, and gave the latter the south-east dip 

 visible at the section at. the Pea Shore. I have not yet been able to ascertain 

 the relative position of the margins of these beds, nor the nature of those that 

 conceal the supposed anticlinal. A system of borings at a distance of two or 

 three miles from and parallel to the Delaware, would do much towards ex- 

 plaining this point. It is to be hoped that this may be undertaken by the 

 present State Survey, under Prof. Cook. 



At the present time, the cities of Alexandria, Washington, and Baltimore 

 stand upon its deposits, and Philadelphia is probably underlaid by its margin, 

 as well as the adjoining margin of the Gneiss. Indeed, the location of the 

 prominent cities of the Atlantic States appears to have been determined by the 

 fine sites and water-powers offered by the junction of the high rolling country 

 of the Gneiss formation, and the lower and more level regions of the supposed 

 Neocomian, Cretaceous and Tertiary. Where the Gneiss strikes the ocean, is 

 situated our greatest seaport. New York. Trenton, Philadelphia, Wilming- 

 ton, Baltimore, Washington, Alexandria, Richmond, Raleigh, Columbia, and 

 Milledgeville, Georgia, are all on this line of junction. The elevated Gneiss 

 hills furnish healthy and beautiful residences, the fall furnishes water-power, 

 and the lower level, water communication, and a light soil most suitable for 

 gardening and the production of provisions for these centres of population. 



The succession of strata is rather more complete in New Jersey than has 

 been generally supposed. At the basis of the series occurs the present fresh- 

 water period. Then the marine Hadrosaurus or Ripley clays, and lower Green- 

 sand bed. This deposit my friend John Smock, first assistant of the State 

 Survey of New Jersey, informed me had not found to contain Chelonians. On 

 examination of my own collections and explorations, and those of the Academy, 

 I find this to be true up to the present time. The Chelonians, then, have so 

 far been found in the middle bed of green sand only. Third, the sands, greea 

 sand, and limestone pertaining to the middle bed. Lastly, the upper green 

 sand bed, which appeared to approximate closely the London clay, or lower 

 Eocene, in the character of its fauna, in its molluscs, according to Conrad, and 

 especially in the genus of serpents, Palaeophis of Owen. 



[June, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 159 



June 9th. 

 The President, Dr. Hays, in the Chair. 



Thirty-seven members present. 



The following paper was presented for publication : 



" Descriptions of Unionidse from the Lower Cretaceous formation 

 of New Jersey." By Isaac Lea. 



The death of Mr. Matthew Newkirk, member of the Academy, 

 was announced. 



June IQth, 



The President, Dr. Hays, in the Chair. 



Twenty-one members present. 



The following paper was presented for publication : 

 "A sketch of the Natural Order Liliacese, as represented in the 

 flora of the States of Oregon and Calforuia, with special reference to 

 the plants collected in an excursion along our Pacific Coast, A. D., 

 1866, now in the herbarium of the writer." By Alphonso Wood. 



June 2Sd. 



The President, Dr. Hays, in the Chair. 



Thirty members present. 



The following papers were presented for publication : 

 " Notice of some vertebrate remains from Harden Co., Texas ;" 

 " Indication of an Elotherium in Texas ;" 

 " Notice of some reptile remains from Nevada ;" 

 " Notice of some vertebrate remains from the West India Islands." 

 By Joseph Leidy, M.D. 



Prof. Cope presented to the Academy some remains of extinct Cetacea from 

 the ^iocene bed of Maryland. Of these, some vertebrae, belonging to adult 

 and young individuals, were stated to belong to a species and genus which 

 had not been characterized. He stated that the form was allied to Priscodel- 

 phinus in its slender and pointed diapophyses of the lumbar and caudal verte- 

 brae, but differed in the concave centrum, with four processes clasping the 

 epiphysis. It was named Ixacanthus C(elospondtlus. 



The portion of the mandibular ramus of the smallest known tinner whale 

 was presented to the Academy and named Bal;enoptera pusilla. The length 

 of the species was stated to have been about eighteea feet, or equal the new born 

 young of the modern fin-backs. Some vertebrae in the collection were also 

 supposed to belong to the same. 



He mentioned that he had opportunity of examining a portion of a specimen 

 of the Scrag Whale of Dudley, Bahena g i b b o s a of Erxleben, and ascertained 

 that it represented a genus not previously known. It was a fin-back whale, 

 but without dorsal fin or throat folds, resembling superficially the genus 

 Balaena. The baleen short and curved. The genus was called Agaphelus. 



a second species of the genus was to be found in the " gray whale " of the 

 coasts of California. The baleen of this species, compared with that of the A. 

 gibbosus, was longer and had narrower basis. The plates moderately and 

 simply concave, while those of the latter are sigmoidal, most curved near the 



1868.] 




160 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



outer margin in cross section. The bristles of the California species were 

 very coarse, varying from one to three series between the enamel plates. The 

 bristles of the A. gibbosus much finer, three series together. Length of 

 the latter 8-5 inches, width at base 4-4 inches. In the gray whale or Agaphelus 

 gl a u cus Cope, 22 inches in length, width at base 6 inches. In the former 

 nearly 6 in an inch, in the latter 2^. The baleen of the A. gibbosus be- 

 longed to an immature specimen of 35 feet in length. 



June 30th. 

 The President, Dr. Hays, in the Chair. 

 Thirty-nine members present. 



The amendment to Art. XXI, Chap. XIII, was adopted, as fol- 

 lows : 



"The Department A shall be denominated the Biological and Mi- 

 croscopical Department of the Academy of Natural Sciences of 

 Philadelphia." 



Articles VI, VII and VIII, Chap. XIII, were amended to read 

 according to the original tenor, as follows : 



"ART. VI. — Each department formed as herein provided, shall 

 elect its own officers and members. 



"ART. VII. — Every candidate for admission into a Department 

 shall be proposed in writing by two of its members at one meeting, 

 and be ballotted for at the meeting next succeeding. 



" The affirmative vote of three-fourths shall be necessary to elect a 

 candidate, but no election of members or of officers of a Department 

 shall be valid unless there be present at the meeting six legal voters. 



"ART. VIII. — Every member elect shall pay to the Treasurer of 

 the Department an initiation fee and a semi-annual contribution, the 

 amount of which shall be determined by the members of the Depart- 

 ment, provided that a Department shall not assess its members at a 

 rate exceeding two dollars for initiation and two dollars serai-annual 

 contribution. In other respects the By-Laws, Chap. II, which gov- 

 ern the election of members and correspondents of the Academy, 

 shall apply also to the election of members of any of its Depart- 

 ments." 



The following gentlemen were elected members : 



Roger Sherman, John E. Carter, Francis P. Steel, Wm. Thomp- 

 son, M.D., Wharton Barker, Isaac Comly, M.D., Silbert Combs, L. 

 S. Bolles, M.D., J. F. Holt, M.D. 



The following were elected correspondents : 



Prof Jas. Orton, Dr. Boynton. 



On favorable report of the Committees, the following papers were 

 ordered to be printed : 



Descriptions of seven new species of UNIO from Xorth Carolina. 



BY ISAAC LEA. 



Unio dors ATI'S. — Testa Itevi, triangular!, ad latere planulata, inffiquilaterali, 

 postice subbiangulari, antice rotundata ; valvulis subtenuibus, antice crassi- 



[June, 




KATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 161 



usculis ; natibus prorainentibus ; epidermide rufo-fusca, subsquamosa, obsolete 

 radiata, dentibus cardinalibus parvis corragatisque, laterali))us longis, lamel- 

 latis subcurvisque ; margarita vel alba vel purpurea vel salmouea et valde 

 iridescente. 



jya6.— Catawba River, N. C, C. M. Wbeatlej. 



Unio datus. — Testa la?vi, lato-elliptica, valde compressa, inaequilaterali, 

 postice obtuse angulata, antice rotundata ; valvulis subcrassis, antice parum 

 crassioribus ; natibus prominulis ; epidermide rufo-fusca, micanti, obsolete 

 radiata ; dentibus cardinalibus parviusculis, sulcatis erectisque ; lateralibus 

 prelongis, subcurvis, lamellatis corrugatisque ; margarita nubila, salmouea et 

 purpurea et valde iridescente. 



Ilab. — Paw Creek, Beaver Creek and Long Creek, N. C, C. M. Wheatlej. 



Uxio Beaverensis. — Testa Isevi, oblonga, compressa, ad latere planulata, 

 ina?quilaterali, postice obtuse angulata, antice rotunda; valvulis subcrassis, 

 antice parum crassioribus ; natibus subprorainentibus ; epidermide rubiginosa, 

 micanti, obsolete radiata ; dentibus cardinalibus longis, crassis, lameljatis 

 subrectisque ; margarita vel alba vel purpurea et valde iridescente. 



Hab. — Beaver and Long Creeks, N. C, C. M. Wheatley ; Carter's Creek, Ga., 

 J. Postell. 



Unio nubilus. — Testa laivi, oblonga, subcorapressa, insequilaterali, postice 

 subbiangulari, antice rotundata; valvulis crassis, antice crassioribus; natibus 

 prominulis ; epidermide tenebroso-fusca, eradiata ; dentibus cardinalibus cras- 

 sis, sulcatis corrugatisque ; lateralibus crassis, longis, corrugatis lamellatisque; 

 margarita nubila, salmouea et purpurea et iridescente. 



i/c/6.— Paw Creek, Mecklenberg Co., N. C, C. M. Wheatley. 



Unio Pawensis. — Testa Isevi, suboblonga, inflata, valde inaequilaterali, postice 

 subbiangulari, antice rotundata; valvulis subcrassis; natibus subprominenti- 

 bus, subtumidis ; epidermide tenebroso-fusca, squamosa, eradiata ; dentibus 

 cardinalibus parvis, corrugatis, subconicis ; lateralibus longis, lamellatis sub- 

 curvisque ; margarita vel alba vel purpurescente et iridescente. 



Hab. — Paw Creek, Beaver Creek, and Catawba River, N. C, C. M. Wheatley. 



Unio humerosus. — Testa laevi, elliptico-oblonga, compressa, ad latere planu- 

 lata, inffiquilaterali, postice obtuse biangulari, antice rotunda ; valvulis sub- 

 crassis, antice crassioribus ; natibus prominulis ; epidermide rufo-fusca, obso- 

 lete radiata; dentibus cardinalibus grandibus, sulcatis, partitis ; lateralibus 

 prelongis, lamellatis corrugatisque ; margarita salmonis colore tincta et valde 

 iridescente. 



ITafi.— Charlotte, Mecklenberg Co., N. C, C. M. Wheatley. 



Uxio genuinus. — Testa Irevi, elliptica, subinflata, inaequilaterali, postice sub- 

 biangulata, antice rotundata ; valvulis subtenuibus, antice crassioribus; nati- 

 bus subprominentibus ; epidermide luteola, valde radiata ; dentibus cardinali- 

 nalibus erectis, pyramidatis, in utroque valvulo duplicibus ; lateralibus longis, 

 subcurvis lamellatisque : margarita alba et iridescente. 



i/«6.— Bissel's Pond, Charlotte, N. C, C. M. Wheatley. 



Description of two new species of UNIONID.E from Equador. 

 BY ISAAC LEA. 



Unio Ortonii. — Testa plicata, lato-elliptica, compressa, valde inaequilaterali, 

 postice angulata, antice rotundata ; valvulis crassis, antice crassioribus ; nati- 

 bus prominulis; epidermide rufo-fusca, eradiata ; dentibus cardinalibus niulti- 

 partitis, flexuosis curtisque ; lateralibus prelongis, curvatis corrugatisque; 

 margarita albida et valde iridescente. 



Hub. — River Napo, Equador, S. Am., Prof. Orton. 



1868.] 




162 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



Anodonta Napoensis. — Testa L-evi, oblongo-elliptica. subcompressa, valde 

 insequilaterali, antice et postice rotundata ; valvulis subcrassis ; natibus pro- 

 minulis ; epidermide teuebroso-fusca, encarpifbrmi, flexuosa, obsolete radiata ; 

 margarita jiallido-viridi, non iridesceate. 



JIab. — River Napo, Equador, S. Am , Prof. Orton. 



Bescriptious of UNIONIDJ£ from the Lover Cretaceous Formation of New 



Jersey. 



BY ISAAC LEA. 



Prof. Cope very kindly placed in my hands the specimens of Uidonidxvfhich 

 he collected in a bed of bluish clai/, now first observed to contain them, about 

 six miles north-east of Camden, N. J. This bed is subordinate to the Green 

 Sand, so long known to our geologists as belonging to that portion of the Cre- 

 taceous group which furnished so many interesting organic remains within the 

 last forty years, particularly the Iladrosaurus Foulkii, Leidy, and the Lmlaps 

 aquilunguis, found by Prof. Cope. The same member of the Green Sand For- 

 mation has been very productive also of marine mollusca, some of which I de- 

 scribed in our Proceedings from the beds near Haddonfield, N. J. But, as ob- 

 served above, no fresh water remains had been found in these cretaceous beds 

 there, and the unexpected development of these Unionidie by Prof. Cope, it is 

 hoped, may lead to other and more extensive results. 



These interesting beds in New Jersey have only yet had a very slight de- 

 velopment. They will, no doubt, continue to yield their natural treasures to 

 the industrious investigator for many years. The late Prof. Vanuxem, as early 

 as 1818, while examining the Paris basin, was convinced that these New Jersey 

 beds had their equivalent in the Green Sand of Europe ; and subsequently, in 

 1828, his notes were published in the Journal of the Academy, where he gave 

 a table of their " relative geological position." 



Prof. Cope procured nearly forty specimens of Unionidse, and these are com- 

 posed of teu species, viz. : eight Uniones and two Anadontse. These consist 

 almost altogether of casts, but the forms are well preserved, and in some spe- 

 cimens the inner layers of the nacre are remaining in fragments. These frag- 

 ments, submitted to the microscope, exhibit the imbricated structure as de- 

 veloped by Prof. Carpenter in the Unionidse, but I could not detect any of that 

 portion of the outer structure of the nacre where the base membrane is de- 

 posited in the peculiar cellular structure described and figured in his work. 

 The impress of the muscular cicatrices is visible in many of the specimens. 

 These cicatrices being placed in their usual positions, shewing even the dorsal 

 and palleal scars. While all the massive structure of the cardinal and lateral 

 teeth have been decomposed and carried off, their impress in the clay remains 

 perfect, showing the same forms and striaB which are found in the massive 

 cardinal and lamellar teeth of our western species. 



As there are no characters of the shell itself left in any one of the specimens, 

 to designate specific differences, either by form of teeth, color of nacre, or epi- 

 dermal rays, it remains only to take the outline, transverse diameters, and 

 general curves, to group these specimens. In so doing, I have made these 

 groups conform to the most known species, and named them accordingly. 

 Among these specimens I have noticed none which have nodules or folds, 

 while there is a general resemblance in size and form to those now inhabiting 

 the rivers of the Ohio basin. 



As the bed in which these fresh-water shells are found lies below the well- 

 known deposits of " green sand or marl beds," it becomes a very interesting 

 question as to its relations to these superimposed beds. Further investigation 

 can alone give us the data to settle this point. In finding these fresh-water 

 molluscs here, we are naturally brought to consider how far they may have 

 relation to the products of those deposits in Europe, where the same genera of 



[June, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 163 



fresh-water shells have been found abundant; I mean of course the Wealden 

 of England, in which the distinguished geologist Dr. Mantell had worked so 

 successfully, and iu which he found the Iguanodon ManteUi, a gigantic terres- 

 trial reptile, and other animals, together with many fresh-water molluscs, par- 

 ticularly a large number of Uniomdie, analogous in form to these now so 

 happily found by Prof. Cope in this bed below the Green Sand* 



1 ought to state, iu connection with this subject, that Dr. Hayden published 

 with Mr. Meek, some ten years since, observations made by the former regard- 

 ing the estuary and fresh-water deposits near the mouth of the Judith River, 

 where Dr. Hajden found Uniones, Faludinie, &c. These geologists, considering 

 it the lowest, have called this number one. They say in their paper, published 

 in our Proceedings May, 1857, that " the estuarj- and fresh-water deposits at 

 the mouth of the Judith River are probably in a parallel with the lowest bed 

 of the great Lignite basin, though some portions of them may be somewhat 

 older." 



Uxio NASUToiDES.f — Shell smooth, very wide, compressed, very inequilateral, 

 biangular behind, rounded before ; beaks slightly raised, nearly terminal ; 

 cardinal teeth short and striate ; lateral teeth long, and nearly straight. 



Length 1-5 inches, breadth 4-6 inches. 



Remarks. — This species is very nearly the same in outline with the well- 

 known nasutits, Say, but it is more acute at the posterior margin, in which 

 character it is more nearly allied to Fisherianus (nobis). 



Unio radiatoides. — Shell smooth, regularly elliptical, compressed, inequi- 

 lateral, subangular behind and rounded before ; beaks slightly raised, subme- 

 dial ; cardinal teeth large; lateral teeth large, rather long and lamellar. 



Length 2-4 inches, breadth 4-3 inches. 



Remarks. — Some of the large and compressed varieties of radiatus, Lam., are 

 nearly of the same outline with this species, and the beaks are nearly iu the 

 same position. It is evidently a species of thickness and weight. 



L^Nio suBROTUNDoiDES. — Shell smooth, subrotund, very ranch compressed, 

 very inequilateral, rounded behind and before ; beaks slightly raised, nearly 

 terminal ; cardinal teeth apparently small ; lateral teeth long, lamellar and 

 arched. 



Length 2*6, breadth 3-4 inches. 



Remarks. — Very nearly of the same outline with subroiundus nobis, but not so 

 high in the beaks. The lateral teeth seem to be unusually long and curved. 



Unio carriosoides. — Shell smooth, broadly elliptical, somewhat inflated, ob- 

 tusely angular behind, rounded before ; beaks somewhat raised, removed from 

 medial ; cardinal teeth ; lateral teeth long and slightly curved. 



Length 2-5, breadth 4-8 inches. 



Remarks. — This is evidently a very regularly formed species, the curves be- 

 ing gentle and pleasing. It resembles iu outline some of the more transverse 

 large males of carriosus, Say. 



Unio humerosoides. — Shell smooth, ovately oblong, very much compressed, 

 rounded behind and before ; beaks slightly raised, removed from medial ; car- 

 dinal teeth large and compressed ; lateral teeth rather long and slightly curved. 



Length 2-6, breadth 4-2 inches. 



* While in London in 1852, my friend Dr. Mantell consulted me in relation to these 

 rnionidie from the VVealdon, of which he had several hundred specimens, with the inten- 

 tion of publishing them. For this purpose I grouped the whole of this fine collection, 

 and assimilated them to those of our existing western species. Owing to severe illness, 

 from which he never recovered, Dr Mantell did not publish these shells, and his collection 

 was dispersed by a public sale. On my return from the continent to London, fifteen 

 months afterward, I found in the cabinet of the late distinguished geologist, Mr. Sharp, a 

 portion of them, which he had purchased, and which still had the labels which I had 

 written for Dr. Mantell. I am not aware of any ol these having been published. 



t These descriptions are of course imperfect, being little more than from casts. Speci- 

 mens of all the species are deposited in the cabinet of the Academy of Natural Sciences. 



1868.] 




164 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



Remarks. — A rather unusual outline, and more like some South American 

 species tlian our own, except humerosus (nobis), which it is closely allied to. 

 The exterior is very much and coarsely striate. 



Unio Roanokoides. — Shell smooth, very wide and slightly curved at basal 

 margin, compressed towards the beaks, rounded before and beliind ; beaks 

 slightly raised, well advanced towards the anterior margin ; cardinal teeth 

 rather large, very much striate ; lateral teeth very long, lamellar and slightly 

 curved. 



Length 2-6, breadth 4-8 inches. 



Remarks. — The form of this species is very unusual, and it is nearest in out- 

 line to Roanokensis and macer (nobis). A portion of the nacre remains on the 

 specimen, but there is no appearance of rays on this or any other of these spe- 

 cimens. The anterior portion is remarkably compressed for a Unio; this 

 character somewhat applies to others which accompanied it. 



TJnio ligamentinoides. — Shell smooth, elliptical, very much compressed, 

 very inequilateral, angular behind and rounded before ; beaks slightly raised ; 

 cardinal teeth compressed : lateral long, lamellar and curved. 



Length 2-3, breadth 3-5 inches. 



Remarks — The outline and general appearance of this shell is nearly that of 

 a compressed male Ugamentinus, Lam., but rather more arched above. The 

 curves are regular, and no doubt that in a perfect state it must have been 

 attractive as its prototype now existing is. 



Unio alatoides. — Shell alate, smooth, subelliptical, very much compressed, 

 inequilateral, rounded before and behind; beaks raised; cardinal teeth 

 oblique and compressed ; lateral teeth long, large, lamellar and very slightly 

 curved. 



Length 2-9, breadth 4-2 inches. 



Remarks. — A single specimen only is before me, and this by no means per- 

 fect. It is very closely allied to alatus, Say. The anterior dorsal portion of 

 one valve is gone, and that of the other valve is crushed, but the posterior por- 

 tion is in a very good state, showing a perfect and deep mould of the large, 

 regular, lamellar lateral tooth, over which the posterior dorsal portion of the 

 disk extends into a well-defined wing, which was connate above, but not ex- 

 tending so high as in alatus. 



Anodonta granbioides. — Shell smooth, elliptical, very much inflated, ventri- 

 cose, obtusely angular behind, obliquely rounded before ; beaks submedial, 

 flattened at the tips, but very much inflated on the umbos. 



Length 3-3, breadth 4-9 inches. 



Remarks. — This species is more like grandis^ Say, than any other of our 

 western Anodontse. It is about the same size, and of very nearly the same out- 

 line. Both the valves are present, and in their natural relevant positions. The 

 umbos are much inflated, but not so much as the other species {^corpuleMoides) 

 herein described. 



Anodonta cobpulentoides. — Shell smooth, rotundo-elliptical, exceedingly 

 inflated, very ventricose, obtusely angular behind, rounded before ; beaks sub- 

 medial, flattened at the tips, but excessively inflated on the umbos. 



Length 3-6, breadth 6 5 inches. 



Remarks. — This species is so nearly like corpulenta, Cooper, that I have no 

 hesitation to consider it nearest in outline and form to that remarkable species, 

 described by the late Judge William Cooper, and which inhabits the Lake of the 

 Woods, and other north-western waters. There is no mistaking the peculiar 

 great enlargement of the umbos of this species being analogous to corpulenla. 

 There are two imperfect specimens before me, but the larger one has the ante- 

 rior half of the right valve and posterior half of the left valve, which enables 

 me to make a nearly correct description and measurement. 



[June, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 165 



A sketch of tlia Natural Order LILIACEffi, as represented in the Flora of the 

 States of Oregon and California, with special reference to the Plants col- 

 lected in an Excursion along our Pacific Coasts, A. D. 1866. 



BY ALPHONSO WOOD. 



(Commencing at San Diego, Jan. 28, 1 made wide excursions in that vicinity until Feb. 

 19. Here tlie hills are covered with four species of the Cacti, with other plants. Thence 

 journeying north, 1 visited the splendid plains of San Louis Rey, and of Anaheim, *c. 

 Arrived at Los Angeles on the 23d. Here tlourish almost all the tropical, together with 

 the temperate fruits, in great abundance. My daily excursions here extended to San 

 Gabriel, to the Granite Mountains north and east, to Oocomungo and San Bernardino east, 

 and to San Pedro west. Next journeyed to San Buenaventura, — a most deliglitful trip, 

 much of it on the beach. Hence diverged to Ojai Ranch and the Sulphur Mountains. 

 Thence to Santa Barbara, known for its grand Hiission church, still in good repair. C>n 

 the 28th of March I left for San Louis Obispo, where I spent three days on tliose magnifi- 

 cent plains and lofty buttes. Next on the Salinas Plains, the Gavilan Mountains, and the 

 vicinity of Monterey four days, and April 4th to 7th in the rich Pajaro Valley and adjoin- 

 ing Redwood Hills. April 7th to 17th botanized in the remarkable region of Santa Cruz, 

 and the following week on the splendid plains and hills of Santa Clara and San Jose, 

 south and east of the Bay. April 23d to May 6th, in the vicinity of San Francisco, San 

 Mateo, Oakland, *,c. 



Our next journey was to the Giant-wood of Calaveras, with side excursions to Sacra- 

 mento, Lincoln, Folsom, Murphy's and Valleeito, returning on May 31st. The plain.) 

 were now dressed in their most brilliant robes, in which the golden and purple Mariposas 

 shone conspicuous. 



A trip to the Geysers commenced June 1st, when the Geyser Mountains were red with 

 Clarkias. In this journey we visited Petaluma, Sevastopol, Santa Rosa and Healdsburg, 

 which latter place yiekls a rich liarvest to the botanist. Returned June 7th. 



Next day commenced our long tour northward, again visiting Sacramento, Marysville, 

 and exploring the Yuba River to near Downieville. Thence OroviUe, Chico, are visited; 

 Red Bhiff and Shasta, where I explored the head-waters of the Sacramento. Thence over 

 the Trinity Mountains, where Brevoortia had long bloomed unknown, and over Scott's 

 Mountain, reaching Yreka June 17th From this place enjoyed a grand excursion over the 

 volcanic plains, thirty miles, to Mt. Shasta. 



June 21st crossed the State line, on the Siskiy-ou Mountains, into Oregon, and for three 

 days explored the splendid valley of Rogue River, in the vicinity of Jacksonville. Next 

 three days were spent in pleasant excursions up and down the Umpqua Valley, from the 

 bright little town of VVilbur. At Eugene, lUO miles to the north, entered the vast plains 

 of the Wahlamette River. Reached Albany July Ist, and Salem, the capital of Oregon, 

 July 4th. Here spent three days in botanic trips, in company with Dr. Wythe of the 

 Wahlamette University. Hence thirty miles to Oregon City, a place of infinite water- 

 power, and one hundred miles from Eugene, — theentirelengthof this great valley. Hence 

 to Portland twenty miles, and to the ocean one hundred miles navigation for the largest 

 steamers. 



From the city of Portland, June 9th to 17th, my long excursions radiated, usually in 

 excellent company. By the waters of the Great Columbia I reached the Dalles on the 

 18th, laboring diligently one week, with Judge Wilson often as guide. Returning, spent 

 one day at the famous Cascades, where the river has torn asunder the mountains, which 

 are supported on columns of basalt. Next I am perambulating the rich woods and 

 meadows of Forest Grove, twenty-five miles west of Portland. A day at Milwaukie, Oswe- 

 go and Oregon City, where friends and botanists had already collected herbaria for my 

 use. August 7th to 11th at Astoria, and Clatsop Plains, at the mouth of the Columbia. 

 Once more reach, and leave Portland, accompanied by friends brave and true (Dr. Atkin- 

 son, J. Deerdorf, &e.), for the Cascade Range and Mt. Hood, in full view sixty miles east- 

 ward. On that awful summit we stood Aug. 20th, and estimated its height at 17,0UU feet, 

 — water boiling at 18U° Fahr. 



On the 25th, started from Monticello, Washington Territory, in a canoe rowed by Indi- 

 ans, on a two days' excursion up the Cowlitz River. Everywhere in dark, gloomy forests 

 of the Douglas Fir (.Vbies Douglasii),— would supply "the world with liunber for a 

 thousand years. Finally, on the 31st, leave Portland by steamer Montana for the Pacific, 

 and for San Francisco, 600 miles distant. 



Our final excursion was to the Yosemite,— last, not least. A day or two at Benicia and 

 around Mt. Diablo (whose flowers had alre-ady been gathered for me by Rev. J. P. Moore), 

 once more at Stockton, and across the vast plain to Bear Valley, Mt. Bullion, and Mari- 

 posa, and I surveyed alone tlie Giant-wood of Mariposa. Four days 1 went up and down 

 in Yosemite, plucking flowers from the bases of cloud-capped rocks, and on the 22d of 

 September am again in San Francisco, whence, on the morning of the 29th, with many a 

 trophy, 1 embarked for home.) 



Tribe l.—TULIPE.E. 



Erythroniom grandiflorum, Pursh. Scape tall (1 — 2 f.), 1 — 3-flo\vered ; 

 perianth segments yellow, acuminate, refle.xed from near the base ; stigmas 3, 

 distinct, revolute ; leaves spotless. — Woods, from the iSacramento to the Co- 



1868.] 




166 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



lumbia River, and northward. Bulb oblong-ovoid. Flowers (when more than 

 one) racemed, as if by the splitting of the scape. 



/?. mullijiorum (Torr.) Flowers 5—8 in the raceme. — Sierras. 

 y. mul'iscapidea (Kellogg). Scapes several, all radical, each 1-flowered. — 

 Sacramento Valley (Dr. Stillman. V. s. in herb. Torrey). A remarkable 

 plant ; but the scape is often one only, and then undistinguishable from 

 var. at. 



E. GioAXTEi'M Lindl. Scapes 5 or 6-flowered ; segments acuminate ; stigmas 

 united and club-shaped, somewhat 3-lobed. — Oregon to Idaho (Mr.E. Walker), 

 and northward. My specimens are all l-flowered, and too small to justify 

 Liudley's name. Flowers straw-yellow. 



LiLiuM CANADENSE, (3. puberulum [Torv.l) Tall, strict (3 — 4 f.) ; stem and 

 peduncles minutely puberulent ; leaves some opposite, some verticiliate, often 

 some scattered; flowers few (often but one); segments orange-yellow, with 

 brown dots, oblong, reflexed from below the middle ; anthers oblong ; stigma 

 entire, 3-lobed. — Yuba Co. to the Columbia. Flowers large, showy, 1 — 7. 

 June, July. 



y. minus. — Glaberrimum ; foliis plerumque sparsis ; flora saepius unica /? di- 

 midio minore ; antheris ovalibus, basi affixis. — Meadows near Mt. Shasta, 

 and in Oregon. June. (Yar. parviftora Hook, is undescribed.) 

 J. Walkeri. Floribus multis (12 — 15) minimisque (policaribus) ; racemo 

 elongate ; foliis verticillatis — Idaho (Mr. Elkanor Walker). 



L. Washingtoxianum (n. sp.) Glaberrimum ; foliis plerumque verticillatis, 

 oblanceolatis vel obovatis, breviter acuminatis ; floribus permagnis, infundi- 

 buliformibus, basi attenuatis, umbellatis vel sajpe solitariis, subnutantibus ; 

 segmentis sinxtulatis, apice cuspidatis, basi longe angustatis, supra recurvatis, 

 3-policaribus ; intus fusco-maculatis, odoratissimis ; anth. oblongis ; stig. in- 

 tegro. — In woods here and there, from Yosemite to the Columbia. 3 — 5 f. 

 Flowers purple, varying to white. 



This splendid lily seems to have been overlooked by the botanists, or con- 

 founded with the preceding. It is well known to the miners, who recognize 

 its superior qualities, and call it the " Washington Lily." 



FRITILLARIA, Tournef. 

 * Flowers tessellated, purple and yellow. Caps. 6-winged. 



F. MUTiCA Lindl. Stems many (3 — 9)-flowered, naked below ; leaves verti- 

 ciliate, linear-lanceolate, obtusely pointed; flowers racemed, nodding, bell- 

 form, as long as the pedicles (K) ; segments oblong, acutish, tessellated with 

 dull purple and greenish-yellow ; style trifid ; capsule 6-winged. — California; 

 common in the interior. 2 — ?> f. Lvs. 2 — 3'. The one radical leaf is ample, 

 elliptical. Bulb of white, thick scales. April, May. 



/?. foliosa. — Procera ; foliis majoribus (5 — 6^); floribus parvulis, segm. 

 linearibus, 9'^. — In deep shades. Redwood hills. 3 — 5 f. 



F. LANCEOLATA Ph. Stem strict, 1 — 2-flowered ; leaves lanceolate and linear- 

 lanceolate, verticiliate or opposite ; flowers nodding, obconic, obtuse at base, 

 longer than their pedicels ; segments oblanceolate, rather obtuse, tessellated 

 with purple and yellow; caspule broadly 6-winged. — Monterey to Portland, 

 north and east. 1 — 2 f. Lvs, 2 — 3^. Stem naked below, as in F. imitica. The 

 capsule is broader than long. It is more than probable that F. mutica runs 

 into this. 



F. PARViFLOUA Torr. (P. R. R. Rep. IV.) Leaves narrowly lance-linear, 

 whorled or scattered; flowers small, few or many, in a long raceme, on short 

 pedicels, nodding ; perianth narrow at base ; style trifid to near the middle; 

 capsule 6-winged. — Santa Cruz, Gavilan Mts. ! Murphy's (Calaveras Co.) 

 Radical leaf broad. Stem lvs. about 2' by 2^'. Flowers 1 — 20, greenish and 

 purple. 



[June, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 167 



** Flowers brownish-purple, not tessellated. Fr. wingless. 

 F. Kamtschatcensis Gawl. Bulbs granulated ; leaves lanceolate, irregularly 

 verticillate ; flowers 1 — 3, pendulous, brown-purple, spotless, bell-forui, much 

 longer than their pedicels ; segments lance-elliptical, acute, veins inside more 

 or less lamellated ; nectaries oblong ; capsule obtusely 6-angled. — Coast, San 

 Diego to Sitka (and Karatschatka). The bulb consists of thick farinaceous 

 scales, loosely conjoined. Stem 8 — 12'. February — April. [F. biftora Lindl.) 



F. RECURVA Benth. Stem tall, naked at base ; leaves linear or oblong-linear, 

 some whorled near the middle of the stem ; flowers several, subcylindrical, 

 suberect ; segments oblong, rejiexed aX the end, longer than their pedicels ; stig- 

 mas subconnate ; ovary oblong, fr. wingless. — California (Hooker), Umpqua 

 Valley, Oregon (Mrs. Royal). 2 f. Flowers 1^ inches long, light purple. 



*** Flowers yellow. Capsule wingless. 

 F. LiLiACEA Lindl. Stem leafy at base ; leaves oblong-lanceolate and 

 linear, the lower whorled or opposite ; flowers 1 — 5, racemed, nodding, bell- 

 form, with a narrow base, yellow ; pedicels erect, longer than the bracts ; cap- 

 sule oblong, blunt at both ends ; style 3-cleft. — San Francisco (Dr. Slillman), 

 Benicia (Rev. J. P. Moore), to Nevada. 8 — 14''. Nectary a groove. Very 

 pretty. March. 



F. PUDicA Spreng. Low ; leaves lance-linear and linear, opposite or scat- 

 tered ; flower solitary, nodding, bell-form, yellow ; peduncle as long as the 

 bract, recurved at top ; segments oblong-obovate, obtuse ; style and stigma 

 undivided; ovary wingless. — Dalles of the Columbia (Mrs. Wilson), and east. 

 6 — 2'. Leaves few, 3''. Nectaries nearly obsolete, hence first named by Pursh 

 a Lilium [L. pudicum). 



Yucca aloifolia L.? — Hills, near the Hot Springs, San Bernardino (March 

 10th), only the leaves and the dead scapes of the preceding year. Leaves 

 densely capitate near the ground, 12 — 15' by 1', very rigid, sharply serrulate, 

 glaucous, ending in a strong spine. Scapes very stout, 10 — 15 f. high. 



Y. graminifolia (n. sp. ?) — Mountains twelve miles east of Los Angeles 

 (March 3d). Saw only leaves, and dead scapes with the fruit. Leaves very 

 numerous, in a dense radical crown, linear, 2 f. by 3 — 4'', glaucous, not very 

 rigid, rough-serrulate, rouud-carinate, involute above, and ending in a sharp 

 spine. Scape 10 — 15 f. high, paniculately branched, bearing hundreds of 

 "white, bell-form, pendulous " (Mr. Hoover) flowers. Capsule 1' thick, l.Klong, 

 6-lobed, 6-celled, packed full of disc-form, thin, black seeds. The leaves are 

 not at all filamentous. 



Y. FiLAME.NTOSA L. ? — Mountaius east of Los Angeles, with the last. Only 

 the leaves seen (March 3d), which are densely clustered, yellowish-green, with 

 brown spots and transverse lines at intervals, with no midvein, thick, lance- 

 linear, rolled above and sharp-pointed, margin splitting into strong, recurved 

 filaments. 



CALOCHORTUS, Pursh. (Kuxic, beautiful, ;t=>Toc, grass.) 

 {Cyclobothra and Calochortus of authors.) 

 Perianth 6-parted, regular, deciduous ; segments distinct, contorted in aesti- 

 vation ; sepals oblong or lance-linear, spreading, much smaller than the petals ; 

 petals connivent or spreading, broadly obovate, cuneate-unguiculate, bearded 

 within, with a glabrous spot above the base; stamens 6, perigynous ; fil. 

 subulate ; anthers linear- oblong, deeply perforated at base where ttie filament 

 is inserted ; ovary free, 3-angled ; style very short or none ; stigmas recurved, 

 persistent on the 3-celled, 3-valved, chartaceous capsule; seeds angular, one 

 row in each cell. — Bulbous erect herbs of the North American Pacific States. 

 Leaves narrow, acuminate. Flowers few, terminal, solitary, nodding or erect, 

 showy. 



1868.] 




168 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



The Rcknowledgpd error of Lindley, Kunth, &c., of referring the original species of 

 Pursh {('. ekffans, A.D. 1816) to a genus invented ten years later {Cydoholhra, Sweet, IS26), is 

 avoided by including both genera in one, under Pursh's name. Moreover, Sweet's genus 

 cannot possibly be distinguished by "fovea nectarifera alte impressa" (the only distinc- 

 tion relied upon), for in C. elegans and its congeners " the pit" fades away by degrees, be- 

 coming imperceptible. If, however, the two genera be insisted on. Sweet's name must 

 give place to the prior one of Pursh, and a new name (none more appropriate than Mari- 

 posa) oonftiTredinp\aoe ot the Cahchrn-tus of Lindley, Ac. No one acquainted with these 

 beautiful flowers will regret the disuse of so distasiefnl a name as CydubMira. 



\Calochortidea, Petals impressed inside with a nectariferous pit, wliich is 

 gibbous outside, beard scattered, soft, margin ciliate-fringed. 



* Perianth ventricous, pendulous. 

 C. PULCHELLUS. Erect, branched above ; flowers globous, yellow ; the upper 

 in pairs and threes, lower often solitary, all with long bracts ; sepals lance- 

 ovate, acuminate ; petals concave, connivent, fringed, twice broader than the 

 sepals, the pits large and deep ; anthers mucronate ; ovary ovoid. — Mt. Diablo 

 (Rev. J. P. Moore), and the interior of California generally, less common than 

 the next. 1 f. Its pendulous golden globes make a fine appearance. May. 

 {Cyclobothra pulcheUa Benth., in Hort. Trans., n. ser., i, p. 413.) 



C. ALBUS Dougl. Erect or inclined, branching; flowers oblong, inflated, 

 white, the upper in pairs, with lanceolate acuminate bracts ; sepals oval, much 

 shorter than the concave, scarcelj' fringed petals ; anthers obtuse ; ovary obo- 

 void. — California, common in all the foot hills. 1 — 2 f. Leaves and bracts 

 lance-linear and long pointed. Flowers \' or more long, of a delicate pearly 

 whiteness. May, June. (Cyclobothra albu Benth., 1. c. G. alba and paniculata 

 Lindl.) 



** Perianth expanding, nodding (not pendulous). 



C. ELEGANS Pursh. Stem slender, with one radical, linear leaf; flowers in 

 pairs or threes, open, nodding or suberect, white or purplish ; sepals oblong, 

 cuspidate, greenish-purple, the petals much larger, roundish-obovate, soft- 

 bearded within except its purplish pit, ciliate-fringed, and a short cusp at apex ; 

 anthers acuminate, white ; stigmas recurved ; capsule 3-winged, finally oval 

 and reflexed on the elongated pedicels. — In cool mountain shades, Mt. Shasta 

 to the Columbia. 10 — 16^. Petals near 1'' long, the pit strongly impressed. 

 June. (C. Tolmiei Hook., Cyclobothra elegans Lindl., Bot. Reg. t. 1662.) 



/?. nanus. Folio angustfe lineari v. filiformi, florem unicum longe excedente ; 



ped. filiformi bracteis subulatis duabus instructo ; perianthii capillis fuscis. 



— High hills, Yreka. Also on Mt. Hood. 5 — 8'. June — August. 



i'/?^ Mariposa. Periasth erect, open. Sepals convolute-acuminate. Petals 



plane, erect-spreading, often spotted, but with no nectariferous pit. Seeds oval, 



compressed. (Vide G. venustus, below.) 



* One radical leaf exceeding the slender stem. Petals straight, spotless? Pods 

 oval, obtuse, nodding 

 C. UMBELLATUS (n. sp.) FoUo radicali unico, lineari, caulera et bracteas 

 foliosas longe excedente; floribus 5 — 9, fere umbellatis, erectis ; pediculis 

 subradicalibus, longissirais, ebracteatis, fructiferis recurvatis ; petalis flabelli- 

 formibus, apice rotundatis, erosis, glaberrimis, basi squama ciliata instructis, 

 albis, concoloribus ; antheris oblongis, obtusis ; capsula 3-alata — In collibus 

 altis prope Oakland, California (legimus Sanborn et nos). Caulis 6 — 8 poll. 

 Folium pedale. Petala 10 lin. Maia. [Cyclobothra elegans, ya,r. Torr.l R. R. 

 Rep. iv ) Distinguished from G. elegans by its many flowers, beardless petals, 

 entire absence of nectary, &c. 



C. CNiFLORDS Hook. One radical lance-linear leaf larger than the several 

 cauline ones ; flower single, lilac, on a long, nearly radical peduncle ; sepals 

 linear, acuminate ; petals triangular-fan-shaped, bearded just at base, with a 



[June* 




NATUEAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 169 



small purple spot; anthers linear-oblong, obtuse, blue; style short, distinct. 

 — High plains, Santa Cruz, &c. Scape 6\ Flower V long. April. Clearly 

 distinct. 



C. NiTiDus Dougl. Radical leaf lance-linear, much larger than the ferr cau- 

 line, all long-pointed ; flowers 3 — 4, orange-yellow, pedicels elongated ; sepals 

 elliptic, acute ; petals same length, roundish, bearded all over inside with cla- 

 vate hairs; anthers short, acuminate; capsule oval, wingless, drooping. — Yuba 

 and Tuolumne Counties. 6—8'. Leaf 1 f. Flowers brilliant, 15'^ broad. 

 May. 



/?. cornufus. Sepalis longe acurainatis, coroUam excedentibus. Flore unica; 

 fol. anguste lineari.— Dutch Flat. 4—6'. Fl. 1' lato. 



** Stem leafy, erect, branched, rigid. Perianth large, broad-campanu- 

 late, the petals recurved-spreading above the middle, spotted (except 

 a Weedii). 



C. VENUSTCS Benth. Branches few, 1-flowered ; leaves few, narrowly linear; 

 sepals lanceolate, acuminate, greenish outside, a purple eye bordered with 

 yellow inside ; petals many times larger, flabelliform, straw-white, variegated, 

 a tuft of hairs below, a purple crescent bordered with yellow near the middle; 

 stamens one-third as long as petals, anthers longer than filament; pod lance- 

 oblong. — Plains and foot hills, California. U- — 2 f. Flowers 2i inches broad. 

 This splendid flower (with the next two) has long been known to the native 

 Californians by the name of Mariposa (Spanish for butterfly). 



C. SPLENDENS Beuth. ? Stem stout, 3 — 5-flowered ; leaves narrowly linear ; 

 sepals lanceolate, acuminate, revolute, green, longer than the petals, a small 

 brown spot in the middle ; petals broad-obovate, rounded at apex, lilac, 

 sparsely bearded below, a brown-yellow eye in the middle ; anthers large, 

 longer than filament (6''), blue (Bentham). — Santa Clara, &c., not rare. 1 — 

 2 f. Flowers as large as in No. 7. Perhaps it runs into that species. May. 



C. MACROCARPUS Dougl. Bulb obloug ; stem 5-leaved, 2-flowered glaucous ; 

 leaves convolute, sheathing at base; pedicels enlarged upwards; sepals lance- 

 linear, longer than the petals, lilac, with a green line outside ; petals obovatc, 

 short acuminate, tapering to base, lilac or bluish-purple, greenish at base in- 

 side, and with a tuft of beard; anthers acuminate, as long as filament ; cap- 

 sule lance-oblong, very long (3 — 4'). — Dalles of the Columbia, &c., common. 

 August. 



' C. LUTECS Dougl. Stem about 3-flowered ; leaves convolute-acuminate, 

 shorter than the slender peduncles ; sepals oblong, pointed and recurved at 

 apex, scarcely shorter than the petals, yellow; petals yellow, broad-cuneate, 

 rounded at apex, bearded across the base, a roundish red spot near the middle ; 

 anthers as long as filament ; capsule elliptical. — Plains of Sacramento and 

 San Joachin. 1 — 2 f. Flowers smaller than in the foregoing, very brilliant. 

 May. 



C. Weedii (n. sp.) Caule subtrifloro ; foliis convolutis-filiformibus, jjedun- 

 culo divaricato multo brevioribus ; floribus aurantiacis-luteis, concoloribus ; 

 Sep. oblongis, acuminatis, petala excedentibus, basi barbatis ; pet. cuneato- 

 obovatis, intus omnino barbatis, ciliatis, basi barbis fasciculatis ; stam. fere 

 longitudine petalorum, anth. filamentis brevioribus; ovario lineari. — San Diego 

 (ligit Weed). Caulis gracilis, rigiiius, 1 — 2 ped. Flores maguitudine C. lutei ; 

 pet. 15 lin. Stam. et pistilla, 1 pol. April. Very distinct. 



C. NuTTALLii Torr. "Slem 2-flowered; leaves very narrowly linear; petals 

 obovatecuneate, rounded at summit, white except the yellow base, with an 

 oblong dense tuft of hairs on the claw, a purjile spot just above, and a few 

 scattered hairs. (C. liiteus Nutt ) Noble's Pass, Sierra Nevada, July 3." (P. 

 R. R. Rep. ii, 124.) V. s. in herb Torr* 



* The frequent references like the above, in these pages, indic^tte the extent of my ob- 

 ligations to that eminent botanist, Dr. John Torrey, of Columbia Coll., New York. 



1868.] 12 




170 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Tribe U.—ASPJIODELEJS. 



Camassia esculenta Lindl. — Fine specimens from Marin Co. (Dr. Stillman) 

 to Portland (Mr. Walker, Mrs. Sliepley). Bulb white, furnishing to the Indi- 

 ans a rich diet. Leaves broadly linear, nearly the length of the scape (12 — 

 18'') ; raceme 6 — 10-flowered. Flowers 1'' long, blue, alternate. Sepals lance- 

 oblong, 5 — 7-veined. Cells of the capsule about 12-seeded. 



ALLIUM, Linn. 

 ^ Bracts of the spathe 2, rarely 1 or 3. 



* Sepals acuminate, longer than the stamens. 



A. FALCiFOLiUM Hook. Bulb globular, white ; leaves 2 or 3, linear, recurved, 

 shorter than the scape ; spathe colored, of 1 or 2 bracts, shorter than the pedi- 

 cels ; flowers 10 — 30, rose-purple, two or three times shorter than their stalks ; 

 sepals lance-ovate, carinate-acuminate, more or less glandular-serrulate, 

 recurved, more than twice longer than the unequal stamens. — San Diego to 

 Salem (Oregon). 10 — 20^. Pedicels 1^ — 18^^. March — May. Hooker's plant 

 had "lanceolate" leaves. None wider than lance-linear appear among my 

 specimens. 



A. DouGLASSii Hook. Bulb ovoid, white ; leaves linear, erect, mostly two, 

 shorter than the scape ; spathe 2 bracted, about as long as the pedicels ; 

 flowers about 20, rose-{)urple, two or three times shorter than their stalks ; 

 sepals ovate, gibbous at base, rather acuminate, straight, a third longer than 

 the subequal stamens. — Throughout Oregon, California and Nevada. 10 — 

 20''. Pedicels 1''. San Diego specimens have sepals broadly ovate, merely 

 acute. Nearly allied to A.falcifoliimi, but readily distinguished by the sepals 

 (sepals and petals). 



A. ACUMINATUM Hook. ? Bulb ovoid, often purplish ; leaves 2 — 3, narrowly 

 linear, shorter than scape ; umbel densely oo -flowered, globular, 1^ or more in 

 diameter; spathe 2 — 3-bracted; pedicels not longer than the purple flowers 

 (3 — 5'''') ; sepals ovate or oval, acuminate, gibbous at base, near twice longer 

 than the stamens ; capsule ripening 1 — 3 black seeds. — Hills, Santa Clara Co. 

 to the Wahlamette. Scape 1 f. or more. Umbel small and compact, 20 — 40- 

 flowered, very pretty. April, May. 



/?. gracile. Scapo gracillimo ; umbella 20-flora, f pol. diam. ; segmentis 

 (siccis, post anthesin) inflectis, albis ; semine unico. — On Feather Rivor, 

 Oroville. 



** Sepals acute, equalling the stamens. 



A. TRiBRACTEATUM Torr. Bulb ovate; scape low (3 — 4'') ; leaves 2, linear, 

 much longer than scape ; umbel 15 — 20-flowered ; spathe of 3 ovate bracts; 

 sepals lanceolate, acute ; about equalling the stamens ; capsule broadly 

 obovate, 3-lobed, cells 2-seeded. — Hill sides, Duffield's, Sierra Nevada (P. R. 

 R. Rep. iv, 92). V. s. in herb. Torr. 



A. AMPLECTENS Torr. Bulb large ; scape low, flexuous ; leaves 2, longer than 

 scape, filiform ; umbel 3 — 6-flowered ; spathe of two round concave bracts 

 embracing the flowers ; sepals oblong, obtuse ; capsule 3-lobed, depressed, 6- 

 seeded. — Hill sides, Sonoma, Cal. (Torrey, 1. c, V. s. in herb. Torr. 



*** Sepals acute, stamens exserted. 



A. CERNUUM Roth.? Bulb ovoid-oblong, tapering upwards; leaves 5 — 8, 

 narrow-linear, erect, shorter than the scape; umbel fastigiate, nodding, finally 

 erect, with a short 2-leaved spathe, and about 20 small roseate flowers ; sepals 

 oblong-ovate, acute, shorter than the stamens and slender style; ovary 

 3-lobed, crowned with a 6-lobed crest! — Dalles of the Columbia and east, l^ 

 feet. Bulb 1^ in. long, eatable. Flowers 2^^ long. Umbel 1' broad. August. 



[June, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 171 



This plant combines the exserted stamens of A. cernuum with the 6-lobed crest 

 of A. stellatum Nutt. 



§^ Bracts of the spathe 4 — 6. 



A. Sanbornh (n. sp.) Bulbo ovato, albo ; foliis ante anthesin evanescenti- 

 bus (ignotis) ; scapo gracilente, procero (2 — 3 ped.), basi longe vaginatis ; 

 umb. globosa, confertim 40 — 100 flora; spatha e bracteis 4 lanceolatis 

 acuminatis ; ped. filiformibus, floribus purpureis longioribus ; segm. erectis, 

 oblongis, basi gibbosis ; interioribus longioribus ; stam. et stylo gracillimo 

 exsertis ; fil. capillaribus, basi dilatatis ; stigm. trifida ; caps, trilobata, tri- 

 sperma, glandibus 3 coronata; spermatibus angulatis, albo-luteis (inimaturis). 

 — In coUibus umbrosis, Yuba Co. prope Foster's Bar (S. S. Sanborn, Esq.) Aug. 

 Flores 3 lin. longi. 



A. MARiTiMUM Torr. Bulb globular, corm-like ; leaves 3 — 6, linear, longer 

 (often shorter) than scape; umbel about 10-flowered, fastigiate ; spathe of 3 — 

 6 narrow bracts, sepals distinct almost to base, oval, with a wide midvein and 

 callous tip, some longer than the stamens; fil. dilated at base; capsule globu- 

 lar, size of a peppercorn, 30-ovuled, perfecting about nine black seeds. — Hills 

 near the sea and bay, Santa Cruz to Benicia and Marin Co. 6 — 12''. Flowers 

 small, white. April. 



A. CROCEUM Torr. Leaves several, linear, as long as the slender scape (1 f.) ; 

 umbel 9 — 12-flowered, pedicels spreading, 8 — 10''^; spathe of 4 — 5 lanceolate, 

 acuminate bracts ; sepals oblong, acutish, orange-yellow, 4 — b'^ ; stamens 

 shorter, fil. 2-tootlied at base ; capsule obovate. — Mountains east of San Diego 

 (Mex. Bound. Rep. ii, 218). V. s. in herb. Torrey. 



HESPEROSCORDIUM, Lindl. ("Ea-^rJ/Jsc, evening, ffwfSov, garlick.) 



Perianth acute at base, articulated to the pedicel ; segments 6, distinct,, 

 spreading above ; stamens six, short, equal, fil. dilated, coherent andperigynous 

 at base ; ovary stipitate, many-ovuled ; style slender ; capsule ovoid, 3-celled, 

 3-valved : seeds 00, black. — Corm coated, scape umbelliferous. Involucre of 4 

 or more bracts. Flowers erect, white. 



R. LACTEUM Lindl. Corm globular, fibrous-coated, brown ; leaves 2, linear, 

 shorter than the tall scape ; flowers 10 — 25, shorter than their pedicels; seg- 

 ments cream- white, 1-veined, oblong, obtuse, 6 — 7^^ long; fil. at base broad 

 and connate, forming a corona half the length of the perianth ; stipe nearly 

 the length of the capsule. — San Mateo Co. (Mr. Easton), to the Sacramento 

 and Wahlamette. 2 f. [H. hyacinthinum Lindl. is the same plant.) 



TRITELEIA, Dougl. (T/iic, thrice, rkao?, complete.) 



Perianth 6-parted, funnel-form, persistent, segments spreading, 1-veined ; 

 stamens 6, the 3 inner higher and longer; fil. adherent to the tube, anthers 

 linear-oblong, fixed by the middle ; stigmas 3-lobed, style distinct ; capsule 

 short-stipitate (in our species), cells 3, about 10-seeded. — Bulbous. Scape 

 umbellate or 1-flowered. Spathe of 2 bracts. 



T. GRANDiFLORA Lindl., Hook. Leaves linear, glaucous, shorter than the tall 

 (2 f.) scape ; spathe equalling the pedicels, which are scarcely as long as the 

 perianth; stipe shorter than the ovary or the style ; stigmas 3-lobed; umbel 

 few-flowered. — Plains of the Columbia and Wahlamette. The specimen in 

 Dr. Torrey's herbarium is from the Dalles. I did not meet with it. (V. s.) 

 Flowers white ? 



SUBERTIA, Kunth. (In honor of Dr. Subert, a German botanist.) 



Perianth funnel-form, attenuate at base, half-6-cleft ; segments erect, 3- 

 veined in the middle ; stamens 6, included, fil. inserted at top of tube ; anthers 



1868.] 




172 PEOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



versatile, ovate lanceolate, obtuse, the 3 inner higher than the 3 outer; ovary 

 oval, longer than its style, 3 to 5 times shorter than its stipe ; capsule ovoid, 

 ripening few black seeds from many (15 — 45) ovules. — Bulbous. Leaves lance- 

 linear. Scape umbellate. Spathe of 3 — 6 narrow bracts. 



S. LAXA Kunth. Bulb globular, tibrous-coated ; leaves as long as the scape 

 (12 — 18^), broadly linear (5— 8^^ ; pedicels 10—20, suberect, 2—3^ ; flowers 

 violet-purple, segments with a triple midvein ; stipe 5 or 6 times as long as the 

 ovary (near 1^). — California, middle and northern counties. Bulb as large as 

 a musket ball. Flowers 16^'' long. April, May. Very handsome. 



S. CROCEA (n. sp.) Foliis 1 — 2 (v. pluribus ?), linearibus, conduplicato- 

 falcatis, erectis, scapo gracilente brevioribus, obtusis ; spatha e bracteis 4 

 subulatis acuminatis, pediculis breviora ; floribus 5 v. 6, basi acutis, supra 

 sensim dilatatis (9 lin. longis), segm. jeque obtusis, medio vena forti instructis ; 

 anth. oblongis, interioribus duplo altioribus ; ovario quam stipes crassus 

 triplo breviori ; loculis 5-spermi3. — Yreka, California. Caulis pedalis. Flores 

 crocei. June. 



CALLIPRORA, Lindl. (Kaxxo?, beauty, w/nj-^a, front.) 



Perianth of 6 segments united at base into a turbinate tube, spreading above, 

 oblong, 1-veined; stamens 6, perigynous, 3 of them longer, fil. dilated, all 

 tricuspidate, the middle cusp shortest, bearing the anthers ; ovary shortstiped ; 

 style and stigma undivided ; capsule 3-celled, eo -seeded, seeds black. — Bulbous. 

 Leaves linear-ensiform. Scape umbellate. Spathe of 3 or 4 bracts. Flowers 

 5 — 20, yellow. [Calliproa Kunth.) 



C. LUTEA Lindl. — Hills, Santa Cruz, to Healdsburg and the Sierra Nevada. 

 A handsome plant, 1 f. Bulb globular. Leaves 1 — 3, as long as the scape, 

 channeled. Segments 6 — 10''^ long, the vein greenish outside. Pedicels 1 — 

 2''. Specimens from the Coast Range have a much smaller flower than those 

 from the interior. April, May. Differs from Subertia chiefly in its stamens. 



BRODIjEA, Smith. (Named for James Brodie, Esq., of Scotland.) 



Perianth funnel- bellform, outer segments narrower ; stamens 6, inserted into 

 the throat of tube, exserted, outer anthers sterile, petaloid, the inner fertile, 

 erect, fixed by the cleft base (shorter than the segments); ovary fusiform, 

 narrowed to the subsessile base ; cells 3, 5 — 7-ovuled, style equalling the 

 stamens, stigmas 3-fid ; capsule substipitate. — Bulbous. Leaves 5, linear, 

 exceeding the scape. Umbel few-flowered. Spathe 2 bracted. Flowers 

 large, violet blue. 



B. GRANDiFLORA Sm., n. macrantha, Torr. Bulb depressed-globous, fibrous- 

 coated ; pedicels stout, divaricate, then erect; flowers 4 — 8, rarely but 1, the 

 inner segments nearly twice broader than the outer, all spreading above. Ste- 

 rile stamens usually longer than the fertile, emarginate, yellowish. — Plains 

 and hills, California. 8 — 18''. Flowers large, varying from l''to V in length, 

 on unequal stalks. 



B. ToRREYi (n. sp.) Bulbo magno, depresso, tunica reticulata instructo ; 

 foliis multo elougatis ; umb. 5 — lO-flora, subradicali v. scapo brevissimo, pedi- 

 culis valde inequalibus ; perianthii segm. suberectis, omnibus obtusis; anth. 

 oblongis, castratis elongatis, bifidis. — Swampy places about Oakland, Napa, to 

 Marysville, &c. Leaves 6 — 10'. Pedicels 3 — 6'. Flowers | inch long. I often 

 saw the live plant, always with the same habits and characters. [B.grandiflora, 

 /?. macropoda Torrey, Bot. Whipp. Rep. 93.) 



B. PARViFLORA Torr. Scape roughish ; umbel 15 — 20-flowered ; pedicels 

 shorter than the flower ; sterile stamens ovate lanceolate, rather acute, entire ; 

 cells of the ovary G — 8-ovuled.— Sierra Nevada. (Torrey, in P. R. R. Rep., ii, 

 125.) V. s. 



[June, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 173 



DICHELOSTEMMA, Kunth. (Ai;t»Aoc, bifid, cn-j/^^-t*, crown.) 



Perianth 6-parted, limb erect or spreading ; fil. 6, dilated, perigynous, the 3 

 outer exserted, petaloid, 2-parted either with or without an anther between 

 the lobes, the 3 inner wholly adnate, antheriferous, rarely appendaged ; anthers 

 bifid at each end ; ovary 3-celled, cells 3 — 5-ovuled ; seeds few or many, 

 black. — Bulb or corm globous. Leaves linear, flat. Scape tall, wiry, bearing 

 a dense umbel of flowers. Spathe of 3 or 4 broad bracts. 



^ Only the three outer filaments appendaged. Flowers violet-blue. 



D. ooNGESTA Kunth. Leaves 1 — 2, narrowly linear ; scape flexuous, erect 

 (2 f.) ; flowers subsessile, in a globulai" umbel, tube tumid at base, contracted 

 above the globular ovary ; anthers 3 ; pedicels roundish ; seeds angular, 5 in 

 each cell. — Oregon and N. California, common. Flowers 'd" long, about a 

 dozen in each umbel. March — May. [Brodixa congesta, Smith.) 



D. CAPiTATA Benth.? Leaves broad-linear, glaucous ; scape straight, erect 

 (2 f.) : flowers subsessile, few (5 — 9), compact, broad at base, not contracted 

 above ; anthers 6 ; pod ovoid, with 9 elliptical seeds. — San Diego to Yreka ; 

 often seen with the other, readily distinguished at sight. The seeds are thrice 

 larger than in the preceding. The bulbs of both are largely eaten by the 

 Digger Indians. February — April. 



^ StrophoUrion, Torr. Filaments all appendaged ; the lobes of the antherife- 

 rous much shorter than those of the sterile. 



D. Californica. Leaves long, linear ; scape terete, twining on anything in 

 reach, 5 — 10 f. ! Umbels capitate, with 4 or 5 bracts ; flowers tubular-bell- 

 form, rose-purple, somewhat constricted above the ovary, articulated to the 

 pedicels ; cells 4-ovuled, 1-seeded ; seed oblong, black. Common in the foot 

 hills, Marin, Yuba and Placer counties. May. {^Stropholirion californicum, 

 Torrey, in P. R. R. Rep. iv. 149.) 



BREVOORTIA, Wood. Proc. Phila. Ac. N. Sci., June, 1867. 

 (Dedicated to J. Carson Brevoort, Esq.. Reg. N. Y. Univ.) 



Perianth tubular-pyriform (scarlet red), persistent, limb 6-toothed, reflexed, 

 crown erect, of 3 broad truncate scales ; stamens 3, fil. adnate, anthers free, 

 exserted, opposite the inner segments (teeth), alternate with the scales of the 

 crown, deeply bifid at base ; ovary ovoid, 3-celled ; cells 4-ovuled, stj-le slender ; 

 capsule? — Bulbous? Leaves long, linear. Scape tall, erect, umbellate. 

 Spathe of 4 bracts. Flowers 8 — 12, pedicellate, nodding. 



B. Ida-Maia Wood. High hills of the Trinity Mountain Range, Shasta Co., 

 Cal. Glabrous, 2 — 4 f., leaves nearly as long, channeled. Flowers K long, 

 pedicels 1 — 2'. Singularly beautiful, the tube scarlet, lobes chrome-green, 

 crown yellow, and umbel subtended with 4 purple bracts. May, June. 



CHLOROGALUM, Kunth. [XkoopQ, green, yixa., milk.) 



Perianth of recurved-spreading segments ; stamens 6, equal, scarcely 

 perigynous, as long as the segments; anthers 2-celled, fixed by the back; 

 ovary free, sessile, cells 3, 2 — 3-ovuled ; style filiform, stigma tricuspidate. — 

 Bulb tunicated. Leaves radical, linear, carinate. Scape branching, with 

 panicled racemes. Soap Plant. 



C. POMERiDiANUM Kuutli. — California, throughout the open country. The 

 bulb is invested with a dense mass of black, hair-like fibres. Leaves broad- 

 linear, recurved, the margins undulate. Scape 2 — 3 f. high, bracted, with a 

 few spreading branches. Flowers erect, broad, white, in long loose racemes, 

 open only at mid-day in May. The bulb is alkaline and mucilaginous, answer- 

 ing well for soap. 



1868.] 




174 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



ODONTOSTOMUM, Torr. {'OScic, tooth, ctto/**, mouth.) 



Perianth salver-form, tube cjlindric, limb of 6 equal spreading segments as 

 long as tube ; stamens 6, perigynous to top of tube, alternating with as many- 

 sterile filaments ; style filiform ; ovary globous, nearly free, 3-celled, 6-ovuled, 

 capsule 6- seeded. — Bulbous, with broad linear leaves sheathing the divaricately 

 branched stem. Flowers small, racemed, white. 



0. Hartwegii Torr. — Foot hills, Yuba, Placer and Sacramento counties. 1 

 — 2 f. Radical leaves flat, 3 — 6^'' wide, 5 — V-veined. Segments 5-veined, 

 reflexed after flowering. Stamens and sterile fil. barely exserted. May. 



Tribe UL—SMILACINU^. 



Smilacina eacemosa Desf. — Common in the Redwood hills, Pejaro to the 

 Russian R., Cal. In no wise different from the eastern plant. 



S. stellata Desf. — Santa Cruz, with the last, north to the Columbia River 

 from Astoria to the Dalles. 1 f. Raceme loose, few-flowered. Berries red. 



Clintonia Andrewsii Torr. Root fibrous ; leaves few, lance-oval, abruptly 

 pointed, sheathing at base, veins running from base to apex ; scape taller than 

 the leaves, bracted, bearing 2 — 4 umbels, the terminal 10 — 20-flowered, the 

 lateral 2 — 4-flowered ; flowers bell-shaped, yellowish, 8^^ long ; segments 

 obtuse; berries 3-celled; cells 8 — 10-seeded. — Mountain woods near Santa 

 Cruz to the Russian R. A handsome plant, 1 — 2 f. May. 



C. uniflora Kunth. Root tuberous ; leaves 2 or 3, lance- oblong, abruptly 

 pointed, margins ciliate ; scape not longer than the leaves, bearing one large 

 white flower ; segments same shape as the leaves, IC'' long, stamens shorter; 

 berry obovoid, as large as a pea, 9-seeded, blue. — Northern declivities of Mt. 

 Hood (Mr. Brazee), Cascades to Vancouver ! June, July. 



Majanthemum bifolium DC. /?. dilatatum. — From Astoria to the Dalles, north 

 and east. Leaves generally 3, broad-cordate, 3 — 5'' diameter! Stem 6 — lO'. 

 Exactly like the eastern plant, except its gigantic size. June. [Smilacma 

 dilatala, Nutt.) 



Tribe IV.— UVULARIEjE. 



Prosartes Hookeri Torr. Stout, leafy, scabrous- puberulent ; leaves broad- 

 ly ovate, acuminate, deeply cordate-amplexicaul ; umbels 3 — 4-flowered, seg- 

 ments spatulate, obtusish ; anthers oblong, glabrous; stigma entire. — Santa 

 Cruz to Oakland hills, &c. 2 f. Leaves 2^ broad, strongly veined. Stem and 

 branches reddish, pubescent. Flowers greenish-yellow, 9^^ long. April. 

 ( Uvularia lanuginosa, p. major Hook.) 



P. Menziesii Don. Nearly glabrous ; leaves lance-oblong or ovate acumi- 

 nate, sessile, or subcordate -clasping ; umbels terminal, 1 — 3-flowered ; flowers 

 bell-shaped, pendulous, as long as their stalks ; segments linear-lanceolate, 

 acuminate (6''^), the stamens often longer, and the slender style still longer ; 

 berry lemon-shaped, orange- colored, with 6 rounded seeds. — Santa Cruz to the 

 Columbia. Stem 2 f., erect to first branch, then secund. Flowers greenish. 

 May. ( Uvularia Hook.) 



Streptopus amplexifolids DC. — Washington Co., Oregon (Mr. E.Walker). 

 Glabrous. Leaves glaucous beneath. Berries red, oblong, 15 — 21-seeded. 



Notice of some VERTEBBATE BEUAINS from Harden Co., Texas. 



BY JOSEPH LEIDY, M. D. 



The following described fossils were submitted to my examination by Messrs. 

 Geo. N. Lawrence and D. G. Elliot, of New York. They are reported to have 

 been obtained from blue clay aud sand, beneath a bed of bitumen, in Harden 



[June, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 175 



Co., Texas, and were donated to the New York Lyceum of Natural H' story by 

 Mr. Robertson. The fossils are mostly thoroughly permeated with bitumen ; 

 others slightly. 



Eqdus complicatus. 



1. A first superior molar. Length along the inner median column 2i inches ; 

 antero-posterior diameter of the triturating surface 20 lines ; transverse diame- 

 ter, independent of the cementum, 13j^ lines. It nearly resembles the specimen 

 represented in fig. 9, pi. xv, of Holmes' Post Pliocene Fossils of South 

 Carolina. 



2. A last superior molar, curved to a remarkable degree. Length along t^ie 

 inner median column, less the fang, 2 inches 1 line ; antero-posterior diameter 

 of triturating surface independent of cementum 18 lines ; transverse di.ameter 

 do. 10| lines; length of curve antero-externally 35 lines, postero-externally 16 

 lines. 



3. An upper temporary molar. Length internally lOJ lines ; antero-posterior 

 diameter 17 lines; transverse diameter 9h lines. 



4. A fragment of a fourth upper molar. 



5. The upper part of the crown of a last lower molar. Antero-posterior 

 diameter 15^ lines ; transverse diameter, independent of the cementum, 5,^ 

 lines. 



fi. A fifth inferior molar. Length antero-internally to division of fangs 33 

 lines ; antero-posterior diameter 13 lines ; transverse diameter, independent of 

 cementum, 6 lines. 



All the above are completely imbued with bitumen, which has penetrated 

 the cementum and dentine throughout. 



7. Fragments of a lower jaw, with the first molar tooth. This specimen is 

 only partially impregnated with bitumen. The length of the tooth is 33 lines; 

 the antero-posterior diameter 17 lines; the transverse 7 lines. 



Mastodon americanus. M. ohioticus or 31. giganteus of authors. 

 A small fragment of a molar. 



Megalonyx validus, n. s. 



A portion of a tooth resembling most in its form the second upper tooth of 

 the Megalonyx Jeffersoni, but much larger than in the mature individuals of that 

 species. The transverse diameter is 15| lines; the antero-posterior IH lines. 

 The transverse section is quadrate. The anterior surfixce is nearly a ti-ausverse 

 plane ; the posterior surface forms a plane inclining outward ; the inner surface 

 is nearly a plane inclining forward ; the outer surface forms with those in front 

 and behind a semi-circle. The triturating surface is comparatively slightly 

 concave, and inclines postero-internally. Its anterior border is the most pro- 

 minent; the posterior being comparatively so little prominent as not strikingly 

 to interfere with the slope of the surface. The specimen is thoroughly impreg- 

 nated with bitumen. 



Felis (Trucifelis) fatalis, n. s. 



An upper sectorial molar, contained in a small fragment of the jaw, which 

 also includes the socket for a single fanged tubercular tooth. The specimen 

 is thoroughly saturated with bitumen. 



The sectorial tooth indicates a feline animal, approaching in size the lion or 

 Bengal tiger. The form of the tooth is nearly like the corresponding one of 

 the latter animals, but the crown is of less width and proportionately longer. 

 The anterior lobe differs from that in the true cats not only in a greater propor- 

 tionate development, but in its distinct separation in two sub-lobes, of which the 

 anterior is rather more than half the depth of the succeeding one. The 

 measurements of the tooth, in comparison with those in a similar one of a large 

 skull of the Bengal tiger, are as follows : 



1868.] 




176 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



Fossil. Tiger. 



Breadth of crown 15| lines. 18 lines. 



Depth at anterior lobe 7 " 7J " 



" at principal cusp 9 " 9 " 



" of posterior lobe G^ " 7 " 



Width at antero-internal abutment 72 " 8j " 



Canis. 



An upper lateral incisor, impregnated with bitumen. The tooth is unworn, 

 and is intermediate in size with those of Cnnis occ.iderttalis and C. latrans. The 

 unworn crown is Q\ lines long, its antero-posterior diameter 3i^ lines; its 

 transverse diameter 3 lines. The compressed fang, broken at the end, has 

 been about 13 lines long ; its width is 4^ lines ; its thickness 2| lines. 

 Undetermined. 



An ungual plialanx, apparently of an edentate animal. The end is broken 

 off, and the specimen is thoroughly imbued with bitumen. The length is 

 uncertain, for we cannot determine whether it was blunt or pointed at the end. 

 Supposing it to have been in the former condition, it has been about 28 lines 

 long. The breadth is more than half the length, and is much greater than the 

 depth or thickness. The bone is without sheath, transversely oval in section, 

 13^ lines wide by 10 lines in depth. The articular facet forms a trochlear 

 concavity, with vertical median elevation, and is directed backward and down- 

 ward. About one-fourth of the length from the base it expands, and then 

 gradually narrows forward to the apex. The upper surface forms an inclined 

 jilane forward, and is convex transversely, and smooth. Its greatest width 

 just back of the middle is 16 lines. The under surface is convex transversely, 

 and slightly so in the length. On each side of this surface, just in advance of 

 base, there is a large vasculoneural foramen, penetrating to the interior of the 

 bone. A wide but shallow groove curves forward between the foramina, and 

 a deeper one diverges from each laterally and backward. The lateral borders 

 of the ungual expansion are obtuse. 

 Undetermined. 



A bone of uncertain character, but resembling a phalanx. Slightly impreg- 

 nated with bitumen. It is a curved, four- sided pyramid, with a square plane 

 base, truncated deeply at one angle. A strong boss occupies the incurvature 

 of the bone at the base, and at the side of the truncated angle. The border of 

 the pyramid along the convexity opposite the latter is likewise truncated. The 

 bone in the structure of its surface looks as if it might be of reptilian charac- 

 ter, exhibiting everywhere a rather conspicuous vascular porosity. The 

 length of the specimen in the axis is 16 lines, the diameter of the base 11 by 

 10^ lines. 



Emydes. 



Small fragments of the carapace and sternum of several species of emydes, 

 thoroughly imbued with bitumen. Most of the fragments are too imperfect to 

 characterize the species, but some of them indicate an animal about the size of 

 the living Einys scabra of the southern States, but evidently a different species, 

 as the bones are proportionate!)' much more robust. The fore part of the ster- 

 num differs from that of E. scabra in the abrupt projection forward of the inner 

 division of the episternals. A pair of these together at the articulation of the 

 hyposternals give a breadth of 43 lines ; depth of tlie episternals to the ento- 

 sternal 13 lines; projection forward of the part covered by the gular plates 4 

 lines ; greatest thickness 5^ lines. A hyposternal about its middle is 28 lines 

 from before backward ; 26 lines in width behind the inguinal notch; and 6 

 lines where thickest internally. The fore part of a nuchal plate resembles the 

 corres[)onding portion in E. scabra. but is more deeple indented. Its width 

 anteriorly is an inch ; the length of its median column lOj lines ; its thickness 

 where greatest 6 lines. The species may be distinguished by the name of 



E.MYS PETROLEI, 



Probably belonging to the subgenus Trachemys of Agassiz, like Emijs scabra. 



[June, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 177 



Indication of an ELOTHERIUM in California. 

 BY JOSEPH LEIDY, M. D. 



Elotherhtm superbus, n. s. 



Prof. Whitnej' recently placed in my hands for examination a tooth of a 

 supposed carnivorous animal, from Douglas Flat. Calaveras Co., California. It 

 was derived from a stratum of the same age as that from which a lower jaw 

 of Rhhwceros hesperius was taken. The tooth appears to me to be the right upper 

 lateral incisor of a species of Elotherium, perhaps the same as E. ingenx of the 

 Mauvaises Terres of White River, Dakota, though it would appear to belong to 

 a larger individual than the remains referred to the latter, if not to a yet larger 

 species. The crown of the tooth is conical, compressed from within outwardly, 

 and subacute laterally. The apex is rounded ; the base somewhat expanded, 

 and at its fore part produced in a short embracing ridge. The fang is conical 

 and curved. Tlie measurements of the specimen are as follows : 



Length of tooth in straight line 292 lines ; length of crown 13 lin. ; breadth 

 9 lin. ; thickness 6i lin. 



Notice of some REPTILIAN REMAINS from Nevada. 

 BY JOSEPH LEIDY, M. D. 



Prof. J. D. Whitney has submitted to my inspection some fossils derived from 

 the Triassic rocks, of Star Canon, Humboldt Co., and from the Toiyabe Range, 

 north-east of Austin, Nevada. The specimens are very imperfect, but neverthe- 

 less interesting, and sufliciently characteristic to indicate apparently three 

 distinct reptiles having an affinity to Ichthyosaurus and Eosaurus, nor am I 

 prepared to prove that they do not belong to one of these. 



The fossils have been and are yet partially imbedded in a dark bluish silice- 

 ous limestone, and the same material has so completely infiltrated the bones 

 that they almost appear like modified portions of the same rock. 



One of the specimens consists of a mass of rock containing two vertebrfe and 

 parts of two others in series. The same rock includes two shells, which appear 

 to be Ammonites Blakei. Gabb, and Posodonomya stella, Gabb. The specimen is 

 from New Pass, in the Toiyabe Range, north-east of Austin. The body of 

 the vertebrte is deeply biconcave, as in Ichthyosaurus. The length is considera- 

 bly less than the breadth. The under side is plane fore and aft, but the mar- 

 gins are slightly prominent and bevelled. The sides are slightly concave, 

 and provided with a short and robust process for the head of a rib. The neural 

 arch with its spine, visible in one vertebra along the broken margin of the 

 specimen, rises above the body about one and a half times its depth, and its 

 abutment exhibits the remains of another articular process for the rib. The 

 neural canal is triangular. The measurements of the vertebrae, partially esti- 

 mated, are as follows : 



Length of body inferiorly II lines. 



Depth of body 16 " 



Width 16 " 



" including costal processes 21 " 



Height of neural arch, including spine from upper part of body, ob- 

 liquely 28 " 



Height of neural canal ^ 8 " 



A second specimen from Star Cafion, Humboldt Co., consists of a series of 

 eight vertebrte, partially included and held together in the matrix, and much 

 weather-worn where they have been exposed. The vertebra? may be part of 

 the caudal series of the same animal as the above, but the matter is uncertain. 

 The eight vertebrae together have a length of 58 lines, making about ^\ lines 

 for each. 



1868.] 




178 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



A third specimen from the Toiyabe Range, on the Reese River, north-east of 

 Austin, consists of the isolated body of a vertebra, somewhat distorted, ground 

 oflFat one of the articular faces, and less infiltrated with the rocky matrix than 

 the others. It appears to have corresponded in proportions with those of the 

 series last noticed. It is biconcave, moderately concave at the sides., nearly 

 plane below, presents the remains of two short oblong articular processes for 

 ribs near the position of the neural arch, the sutural impressions of which are 

 visible above. The leugth has been about 8 lines, the breadth about 16 lines. 

 The neural canal about 2 lines wide. 



The very imperfect condition of the specimens renders me unable to say 

 more about them, nor is it certain that they all belong to the same animal, but 

 for the present I propose to consider them so, under the name of Cymbospon- 



DYLUS PISCOSUS. 



Of the remaining specimens, three consist of the greater portion of three 

 vertebral bodies, which belonged in series and have been broken apart. These 

 are labelled Humboldt, Nevada. They apparently indicate a much larger spe- 

 cies of the same genus as the former, the vertebral body having the same form. 

 The sides of the articular funnels are convex outwardly from the centre, which 

 deepen more rapidly at the inner third of the surface. One specimen retains 

 the neural arch without its spine, and a short, robust, costal process, extending 

 from near the bottom of the arch almost half the depth of the body. A second 

 vertebra is singularly distorted, apparently as if the bone had been in a plastic 

 condition. The measurements of these vertebrte, partially estimated, are as 

 follows : 



Length inferiorly 17 to 18 lines. 



Depth of body 44 " 



Breadth " 44 " 



Depth of costal process 21 " 



Projection of costal process 4 " 



For this species I propose the name of Cymbospondylus petrisus. 



Another specimen, consisting of a mutilated vertebral body from Star Cafion, 

 Humboldt County, indicates an Enaliosaurian, apparently not only differ- 

 ing from either of the former, but probably belonging to a different genus. The 

 specimen is broken away at the top and at one side, is also somewhat mutilated 

 on the opposite side, and appears considerably eroded on one articular face. 

 The body is deeply biconcave, as in Ichthyosaurus, but proportionately much 

 longer in relation with the breadth. The funnel-like surfaces are convex out- 

 wardly from the centre, and deepen more rapidly at the inner third. The sides 

 and under part of the body are slightly concave fore and aft, and defined by 

 acute borders. The under part exhibits a square depressed appearance from 

 the presence of four angular chevron processes, associated fore and aft by sub- 

 angular ridges. The estimated size of this specimen is as follows: Length of 

 the body inferiorly 2\ inches; depth 4J inches; breadth about-6 inches. 



For this animal I propose the name of Chonespondylus grandis. 



Notice of some VERTEBRATE REMAINS from the West Indian Islands. 

 BY JOSEPH LEIDY, M. D. 



Some time since Prof. Felipe Poey, of Havana, sent to me several fossils, to- 

 gether with a copy of a pamphlet entitled " De la Existencia de grandes Mami- 

 feros Fosiles en la Isla de Cuba. Par D. M. F. de Castro. Habana, 186.5." 



The fossils consist of the vertebra of a crocodile and part of a costal plate of 

 a turtle, which were found with other bones, together with the lower jaw of a 

 giant sloth, at Ciego-Montero, Cienfuegos, Cuba. 



The reptilian fossils are as follows : 



[June, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 179 



Ckocodilcs pristinds, n. s. 



A posterior dorsal vertebra of mature age, but without its neural arch, ex- 

 cept the greater portion of one abutment. The body is slightly shorter, and 

 absolutely very much broader and moderately deeper than in the corresponding 

 vertebra of the Mississippi alligator. It also more rapidly narrows posteriorly, 

 but proportionately presents about the same degree of concavity from before 

 backward at the sides and beneath, where it is also in like manner smooth. 

 The anterior articular surface is of considerably greater breadth than height, 

 so as to present a transverse ovoidal outline. The measurements of the speci- 

 men are as follows : Length in the axis 23 lines ; inferiorly 19 lines. Height 

 anteriorly 19 lines ; breadth 24 lines. Estimated height posteriorly 17 lines; 

 breadth 21 lines. Thickness of neural abutment anteriorly 12 lines. I have 

 not the means of comparing the fossil with vertebrae of either species of the 

 living crocodiles of Cuba, so that I cannot say whether it belongs to one of 

 them or not. It is too large to belong to C. rhombifer, according to the dimen- 

 sions given by Dumeril, but would perhaps accord with C. acutus. As an 

 associate with a Megalonyx^ it is not unlikely that it belongs to an extinct spe- 

 cies, for which the name leading this article is proposed. 



Testudo Cubensis, n. s. 



Indicated by a portion of what I suppose to be the first costal plate of the 

 right side. It is marked by the lateral borders of the first and second vertebral 

 scutes and their transverse separation. Along the former borders the plate is 

 51 lines, and along the latter separation 16 lines. The articular border with 

 the first vertebral plate is 30 lines ; that with the second vertebral plate 14 

 lines. The articular border from the first vertebral plate to the lateral groove 

 defining the first vertebral scute is convex forward and inward, and 14 lines in 

 a direct line. A strong costal process projects from the under part of the plate 

 nearly parallel with its length. The surfaces corresponding with the vertebral 

 scutes are somewhat depressed, and generally everywhere are nearly smooth, 

 or without markings so conspicuous as to affect the investing scutes. The 

 greatest thickness of the bone is where it articulated with the first and second 

 marginal plates, measuring from 3J to 4j lines ; and where thinnest it meas- 

 ures only one line. 



No living Testudo, I believe, at present inhabits Cuba, and the fossil probably 

 indicates a species cotemporary with the Megalotnjx. 



The pamphlet above mentioned contains a notice of remains of the horse, 

 hippopotamus, and of a giant sloth, found in Cuba. 



The remains of the horse appear not to differ from the corresponding parts 

 of the recent animal, and it is even doubtful if they are to be considered in- 

 digenous fossils. 



The remains of hippopotamus, consisting of isolated canines, probably also 

 belong to the recent animal. An inferior canine, described and figured by De 

 Castro, certainly presents nothing peculiar. Formerly dentists employed the 

 canines of the hippopotamus for the construction of artificial teeth, but since 

 the introduction of porcelain teeth they have been thrown aside. Occasionally 

 such specimens have been brought to me as supposed fossils, and perhaps the 

 Cuba specimens are of the same character. 



The most interesting fossil described by De Castro consists of the greater 

 part of a lower jaw of a giant sloth, which was found in association with a 

 number of reptilian bones, of which those above described are specimens, at 

 Ciego Montero, Cienfuegos. The figures accompanying the description, though 

 drawn in unfavorable positions for satisfactory comparison, nevertheless clearly 

 indicate a lower jaw of nearly the same form, and teeth holding the same rela- 

 tive position as in Megalonyx. As in this genus the anterior large caniniform 

 molar is widely separated from the posterior three small molars, which differ 

 from those of Megalonyx Jeffersonii only specifically. From the dimensions 

 given, the jaw belonged to a smaller animal than the latter. The caniniform 



1868.] 




180 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



molar differs remarkably from that of Jtl. Jeffersonii and M. dissimilis, as is also 

 the case compared with that of Lestodon armatus and L. mi/loides of Buenos 

 Ayres. lu transverse section it is reniform or crescentic with blunt poles, and 

 the biting extremity appears to have been worn off in the same manner as the 

 incisors of a Rodent, to which, indeed, the jaw appears first to have been sup- 

 posed to belong. The species may be named Megalonyx rodens, or, if the 

 peculiarities of the caniniform molar be regarded generically distinct from 

 those of Megalonyx and Leslodon, it may be named Megalocnus rodens. 



Emys Sombrerensis, n. s. 



The bones of extinct species of turtle are not unfrequently found in the so- 

 called Sombrero guano, Sombrerite or Ossite, a material rich in phosphate of 

 lime, largely mined in the island of Sombrero, W. I., and used in the prepara- 

 tion of a fertilizer for agricultural purposes. In a mass of this material pre- 

 sented to the museum of the Academy (see Proc. 1859, 111), the posterior part 

 of the plastron of a species of Emys, or perhaps Testudo, is perceived, for which 

 the above name is proposed. The specimen consists of both xiphisternals and 

 the greater portion of both hyposternals, articulated in natural juxtaposition. 

 Other fragments of the plastron and carapace, together with a portion of a 

 thigh bone, are also contained in the mass. The specimen indicates the ster- 

 num to have approximated a foot in length ; and the breadth at the lateral 

 sutures of the hyposternals has been about 7^ inches. The under surface of 

 the sternum is flat and smooth ; and laterally it curves but slightly upward. 

 The posterior sternal notch is two-thirds as deep as the width, and almost 

 forms an equilateral triangle. The postero-lateral border from the inguinal 

 notch to the rounded triangular ends of the xiphisternals, is bow-like, or pre- 

 sents two concavities with an intervening convexity. The caudal scutes are 

 small, reaching slightly beyond the bottom of the sternal notch. The femoral 

 scutes are on a level with the inguinal notches. Estimated length of hypo- 

 sternals in the median suture 35 lines ; breadth 45 lines. Length of xiphi- 

 sternals in median suture 17 lines; greatest length about middle 25 lines; 

 breadth along anterior suture 28 lines. Length of caudal scutes internally 13 

 lines ; externally 10 lines. Length of femoral scute internally 25 lines. The 

 bones present about the ordinary proportion of thickness observed in eniydes. 



July nil, 1868. 



Dr. Bridges in the Chair. 



Twenty-one members present. 



The following papers were presented for publication : 

 "Notice of some remains of Horses." By Joseph Leidy, M.D. 

 " Notice of some extinct Cetaceans." By Joseph Leidy, M.D. 

 " Mitchella repens ; a Dioecious plant." By Thomas Meehan. 



July 14ih. 

 The President, Dr. Hays, in the Chair. 

 Nineteen members present. 



The following papers were presented for publication : 

 " Second contribution to the history of the Vertebrata of the Mi- 

 ocene period of the United States." By Edw. D. Cope. 

 " Remarks on Conosaurus." By Joseph Leidy, M.D. 

 " Remarks on a jaw fragment of Megalosaurus." Jos. Leidy, M.D. 



[July, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 181 



E. D. Cope exhibited the vertebra of an extinct reptile, from tlie middle green 

 sand bed of New Jersey ; which possessed the peculiar articular structure known 

 as the zjgantrum and zjgosphen. He said the form was in some degree like that 

 of certain modern terrestrial genera of Iguanida;, as the genus Euphryne, 

 Baird, but it appeared to have some affinity to Macrosaurus, Owen, in form. 

 The animals, if similar in proportions to the Iguana^, would have been some 

 twelve feet in length. It was called Clidastes iguanavus. 



A Mosasauroid reptile was indicated also by a single vertebra from Medford, 

 N. J., also from the middle bed. It was distinguished from other forms of the 

 family by its compressed elevated form. It was assigned to a species named 

 Nectopohtheus validus. 



The structure of the vertebral column in Elasmosaurus was pointed out. It 

 was stated to possess apparently no zygapophyses throughout its whole length, 

 but in place of these, the zygosphen and zygantrum articulation. The articu- 

 lations of the vertebras were therefore the reverse, in respect to direction of 

 their surfaces from the usual form among vertebrata. In fact the structure of 

 the genus was shown to be entirely new and peculiar among vertebrated 

 animals. The genus Cimoliasaurus, Leidy, was stated to exhibit the same 

 structure, and required that the vertebraj should be reversed in order to read 

 their connections correctly. 



Thomas Meehan said he had proposed to himself to contribute a paper to 

 the American Academ}"- of Science which meets next month in Chicago, on the 

 leaves of Coniferai : but some friends here acquainted with his intention, and 

 interested in the facts, were desirous he should explain to them some of the 

 leading points, which he would with pleasure do. 



His chief position was that what are usually considered the leaves of Coni- 

 ferse are but a part, and frequently the least important part of the true leaves, 

 which are either mostly adherent or mostly free according to the vigor of the 

 branch or individual plant, and not according to any specifically constitutional 

 character ; and that a recognition of this fact is of great importance in deter- 

 mining the limits of genera, species and varieties of the Order. He exhibited 

 specimens of the Lariz Europoea, pointing out that it had two classes of leaves, 

 tlie one entirely free, the other mostly adnate to the stems. The adnate leaves 

 were on the elongated shoots, the free leaves on the arrested shoots or verti- 

 cills ; on the elongated shoots the leaves also had a power of elongation, 

 and produced the green awl-shaped points we commonly called leaves. On 

 the arrested shoots or spurs, the leaves had no power of elongation. They 

 were obtuse, rather spatulate, just the same as the adnate portion — the true 

 leaves — on the stem. The theory he deduced from this was that adnatwii u-as a 

 characteristic of vigor ; free leaves a condition of toeakness or arrested growth. This 

 explained the polymorphous character of manj' Conifera". The rule operated 

 through many genera. He exhibited strong branches of Cryptomeria japonica, 

 on which the leaves were united for four-fifths their length, and weaker ones 

 on which four-fifths were free, &c. The same occurs on Juniperus viryiniana, 

 Juniperus conwiunis, Thuja orientalis, T. occidentalis, and other species. Wher- 

 ever the shoots were delicate, either constitutionally or by growing in the 

 interior of the plant and deprived of their due share of light, the leaves were 

 free ; wherever the contrary existed, and the shoots were vigorous, aduation in 

 a greater or less degree prevailed. In many species this polymorphous condi- 

 tion could be produced at will, by weakening the plant. Cuttings of Thiijopsis 

 borealis made from branches with adnate leaves, would throw out shoots with 

 free leaves until they were very well rooted and able to throw out vigorous 

 shoots. 



A test of vigor was the power to branch. Only on vigorous maturity did the 

 branching age of trees commence. Arbor vita?s, when mature, i)ushed out 

 branches from the axils of every other pair of leaves. This gave them their fan- 

 like appearance. When young they branched little, and tliis stage was always 



1868.] 




182 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



marked by more or less free leaves. Thuja ericoides of gardens, with its heath- 

 like foliage, was a weakly constituted form, which retained its childhood foliage, 

 and had little disposition to branch. Thuja meldensis of Lindley, which from 

 its peculiar appearance that learned author supposed to be a hybrid between 

 the red cedar and Chinese arbor vitro, was a form of intermediate vigor, 

 branching moderately, and leaves intermediately adnate. Retinispora ericoides 

 of Zucoarini, was also a weak form with free leaves, the well developed form 

 of which he had had no opportunity to trace with certainty. Taxodium dis- 

 tichum Richard, and Glypioslrobus sinensis Ya\A\., were no doubt the same thing. 

 He showed, by the vigorous branching character of the latter, the necessity 

 for the arrested foliation it presented, and exhibited specimens of vigorous 

 (more branching) Taxodium distichum in which the leaves were abbreviated 

 and twisted around the stem, exactly as in Glyptostrohus, except that the free 

 parts were rather longer. This form did not branch quite as much as the typical 

 Gli/ptostrobuSj but more so than in the typical Taxodium. 



He remarked that the two genera Finns and Sciodopitys had their true leaves 

 adpressed almost entirely to their branches, and illustrated this by specimens 

 oi Pinus austriaca. Histead, however, of these genera developing green free 

 points on the apices, they pushed out rather abortive branches from the axils 

 of the true leaves. The fasicles of leaves on these plants were not true leaves, 

 but were intimately connected with the axial system of the plants. The 

 adpressed true leaves on the pine were annual, although as dead epidermis 

 they remained often on the bark until the regular excorticating period arrived ; 

 but these so-called leaves, or rather metamorphosed branchlets, remained often 

 several years. He had known some remain eight years. Their connection 

 with the axial system could be seen by raising the bark of a three or four 

 year old branch on the Austrian pine. 



Mr. Gabb made some remarks about Kitchen Middens, in the vicinity of San 

 Francisco and on the shores of San Francisco Bay, his attention having been 

 called to the similarity between them and those observed by Dr. Leidy, near 

 Cape Henlopen. He also mentioned a curious circumstance for which he had 

 been unable to account. In various places on the coast of both Upper and 

 Lower California, he had observed shells, often of the heavier species, scattered 

 over the surface in great profusion, and occasionally to a distance of several 

 miles from the beach. They were evidently of very modern origin, being 

 strewn on the surface of the soil, but whether ihey had been carried there by 

 man or birds, he had never been able to discover. 



Dr. Wm. L. Wells made some observations on the mode of scattering the 

 ' spores of the Polypodium vulgare. Under the microscope the sporangium could 

 be seen to open at a point near its stem; and the opening grew very slowly 

 larger, until the continuation of the stem which previously encircled the 

 sporangium was nearly straight. It then suddenly sprang shut with a jerk, 

 which scattered the spores in every direction, and which usually sent the 

 sporangium itself out of focus. In the cases in which it was not thrown 

 entirely out of focus, the same operation could be seen to be repeated two or 

 three times. In no case were any spores scattered during the opening, which 

 always took place very slowly. 



July 21 si. 

 The President, Dr. Hays, in the Chair. 

 Fourteen members present. 



The following paper was presented for publication : 



" On the Crocodilian genus Perosuchus." By Edw. D. Cope. 



[July, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 183 



Mr. Gabb made some remarks on a small lot of fossils submitted to him by- 

 Prof. Orton. The fossils are small, and all belong to undescribed species. 

 They are of unusual interest, being the first fossils, so far as he was aware, 

 ever found in the immense clay deposits of the Amazon Valley — the Tabatingu 

 Clay. The fossils indicate a marine origin for this clay, all of the genera being 

 essentially salt-water forms. They were found by Prof. Orton in a bluff show- 

 ing a fine section of about fifty feet in height, at the town of Pebas, on the 

 Amazon River, two miles above where it joins the Maranon. 



July 28th. 

 Dr. J. Gibbons Hunt in the Chair. 

 Fifteen members present. 



The following gentlemen were elected members : Geo. Roberts, 

 M.D., Mr. Levi Taylor. 



The following were elected correspondents : S. Spencer Cobbold, 

 M.D., of London, W. Kitchen Parker, of London, Rev. Samuel 

 Haughton, of Dublin, Alphouse Milue Edwards, of Paris, Wm. T. 

 Brigham, of Boston. 



On favorable reports of the committees, the following papers 

 were ordered to be printed : 



MITCHELLA REFEITS, L., a dioecious plant. 

 BY THOMAS MEEHAN. 



A few weeks ago I had the honor of pointing out to the members of the 

 Academy that Epigxa repens was a dioecious plant. I have now to report a 

 like discovery in 3Iitchella repens. 



In the case of Epiycea I had to indicate the polymorphism accompanying 

 the divisions of the sexes, as part of the discovery ; in the present instance 

 Dr. Asa Gray is before me in noting the distinct appearances ; the originality 

 of my own observation lies merely in giving the meaning of the facts already 

 recorded. In the last (5th) edition of Gray's Alanual, speaking of Mttchella, 

 the author says, "Flowers occasionally 3 — 6, merous, always dimorphous, all 

 those of some individuals having exserted stamens and included stigmas, — of 

 others included stamens and exserted style." Although this statement ex- 

 presses the appenrance, it is not strictly accurate ; for the pistil in the one 

 case is not perfect, and in the other the anthers are mere rudiments, without 

 a trace of pollen in any that I have examined, The two forms are truly male 

 and female plants. 



In the female plant the pistil, with its well-developed stigma, projects 

 one-eighth of an inch beyond the throat of the corolla. The small rudiment- 

 ary anthers are sessile, and hidden among the coarse down of the corolla 

 tube, so as not to be seen without dissection. 



In the male plant it is the rudimentary pistil which is confined in the 

 villous tube, far out of reach of pollen iufiuence, if even it were perfectly de- 

 veloped. On the other hand, the anthers are borne on filaments which are 

 free from the corolla for one-eighth of an inch, and projecting that much 

 beyond the corolla throat. 



In the case of Epigxal had to record many variations in the form and pro- 

 portions of the floral parts. Mitchella is as remarkable for unifojynity ; except 

 that the calyx teeth in the male are coarser than in the female, there is little 

 variation from one type. Dr. Gray observes that the lobes of the corolla 



1868.] 




184 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



vary from three to four, five, and six. I may add that five-lobed corollas are 

 common, and these are usually accompanied by five anthers. 



The number of male plants is about equal to the female ; occasionally 

 plants of the separate sexes intermix. I, and probably others, have often 

 noticed in the fall some patches bearing abundantly, other patches without 

 a berrj'. The facts I now offer afford the solution. 



In reference to Miichella, it may not be out of place to correct an error in 

 Lindley's " Vegetable Kingdom." The letirned author includes in his natural 

 order Cinchonaceffi Mitcke/la, Cephalantfius, Diodia, Oldenlnndia and Spermacoce, 

 — all high northern plants; and yet, when speaking of the geography of the 

 order, writes that " the most northern species in America is Pinckneya ptcbens, 

 inhabiting the Southeru States of North America." 



Second contribution to the History of the Vertebrata of the Miocene period 

 of the United States. 



BY E. D. COPE. 



A visit to the Miocene region of the western shore of Jlaryland, has ex- 

 plained to the writer more clearly the stratigraphical position of the verte- 

 brate fossils described in this and preceding essays on the subject. 



The miocene deposit which contains the fossils, consists of a dark sandy 

 clay, varying from a leaden to a blackish color, through which water does not 

 penetrate. Its upper horizon may be traced along the high shores and cliffs 

 of the Chesapeake by the line of trickling springs which follow its upper sur- 

 face. The bottom I have not seen, and cannot give its depth, but a great bed 

 of shells occurs at from fourteen to twenty-two feet below its upper horizon. 

 This consists of, first, two separate shallow strata of shells, and about four 

 feet below the upper, a heavy bed at the depth mentioned. The lesser beds 

 vary in amount, being sometimes wanting. 



The streams of the country either flow on or cut the shell beds, and display 

 their washings, as teeth of sharks, cetaceans, etc. The bones generally occur 

 at or near the level of the upper line of shells. The remains of the large 

 whale, the Eschrichtius cephalus mihi, lay across the bed of a small run 

 and penetrate the bank, where I saw the remainder of its vomer, of which I 

 have the half; with numerous other parts of the cranium added since the de- 

 scription of the species, it was dug out by my energetic friend Jas T. Thomas, 

 whose evidence as to the pertinence of the various pieces described to the 

 same animal is conclusive. It is, if need be, confirmed by the white color and 

 porous texture of them all, a character not noticeable in other large whale 

 remains procured by him. Apparently pertaining to a genus known as fossil 

 only from the European drift, it becomes important to be sure of its Miocene 

 origin. This must be admitted ; it lay together as originally deposited, just 

 below the upper shell line, and did not extend so far down as the great bed, 

 from 10 to 18 feet below the top of the blue loam. The upper line of the latter 

 has been varied, inland, by the various operations of erosion, etc. In some 

 places it forms the bottom of vallies, which are excavated almost to the shell 

 line. In such a. situation, about 3} feet above the great shell bed, and a few 

 inches below the surface on the side of a creek, the bones of Galeraand Dico- 

 tyles occurred. 



BASIL OS A URID.iJ. 



CETOPHIS Cope. 



This genus rests upon the evidence furnished by caudal vertebra; in the col- 

 lection. They present an approximation to Basilosaurus in the great thick- 

 ness of their* epiphyses. In the more elongate vertebra each epiphysis will 

 measure the third the length of the centrum deprived of them ; in the less 

 elongate, they measure one-half the same ; in the shortest, more than half the 



[July, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 185 



remaining centrum. One extremity of the vertebra is flat, the other strongly- 

 convex, and none have any trace of diapophyses. The neural arches have been 

 partly broken away, but have been similar to those of other genera, while the 

 groove that marks the inferior aspect of caudal vertebrae is normal. In two 

 vertebrae, the longest and shortest, the foramina which usually pierce the sides of 

 the centra vertically, issue below, within the basal groove and above, below and 

 outside the basis of the neurapophysis. In another specimen the foramen 

 opens outside the inferior sulcus, and in one there is no foramen at all. These 

 structural features indicate a genus of general peculiarity, and perhaps allied 

 to Basilosaurus. There may be some question as to whether two species are 

 not represented among the vertebrae. 



CeTOPHIS HETEROCLIT0S CopC. 



The four specimens may represent a proximal, a median, and a distal caudal 

 of one individual, and a median caudal of another. They were not adult, as 

 the epiphyses are entirely separable. The longer or proximal caudal is sub- 

 hexagonal in section, the median depressed, and the smallest round in section. 

 The larger median is nearly round in section. The epiphysis instead of re- 

 treating before a process of the centrum opposite the four apophyses, as in 

 Ixacanthus, advances on the centrum at these points. The inferior groove of the 

 centrum is deep on the first and shallower on the succeeding ; obsolete on the 

 last. The neural canal about as large on the proximal as in anterior caudals 

 generally. 



Length longest 



Height flat articular face 



Width do. do 



Length median (smaller) 



" without epiphyses 



Height flat face 



Width " 



Length median (larger) 



Width flat f\ice 



Length smallest 



" without epiphyses 



Height flat extremity 



Width do. do 



From Charles county, Maryland. From Jas. T. Thomas, Mus. Academy. 



The convex articulation of the vertebr;e would suggest a greater flexibility 

 of the column in this part than is usual among Cetacea, but more as in cervi- 

 cal vertebra; of long-necked mammals, and in reptiles. The absence of dia- 

 pophyses would confirm such an indication. Were it not for the inferior groove 

 the longer vertebrte above described might be taken for a lumbar, and it may be 

 such, as in the Zarhachis flagellator a similar form coexists with the 

 usual form of'diapophysis of that part of the column. There is probably some 

 distant affinity between the two genera. 



With respect to the genus Basilosaurus, it may be noted that the Polppty- 

 ehodon tuierruptus of Emmons, must be regarded as established on one of its 

 canines. Whether the species be the D. cetoides must be left for their 

 examination. A fine specimen is in the Museum of the Mount Holly Lyceum 

 of Natural History. 



In the description of the Cynorca proterva (in Proceed. Acad. 186Y,) mis- 

 led by the extraordinary resemblance to Giebel's plate quoted, I unfortu- 

 nately mingled with its molar and premolar teeth, the canine of small Dico- 

 tyles. This point, suggested to me by Leidy, I have no doubt is the case. It 

 will be necessary therefore to add the following details of character of the 

 characteristic molar and premolar, which I described too briefly (p.*I51) : "Mo- 

 lar with two roots. Premolars with short conic crowns. Premolars compressed, 



1868.] 13 




186 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



cutting. Roofs of premolars compressed." (P. 152): "Two teeth having 

 crowns similarly though rather more sj-mmetricallj' formed, I suspect to have 

 occupied that position," i. e. " between molars and premolars." 



The premolar first mentioned is about -8 in length, the crown slightly striate. 

 The anterior molar has two roots, which are united some distance below the 

 crown. The crown exhibits no denticles, and is not more elevated than the 

 antero-posterior diameter of its base. This tooth, as well as the other, is of 

 small size, and indicates the smallest species of the family. 



The Pontogeneus priscus Leidy, which I referred, in accordance with a 

 printed suggestion of Leidy's, to the Zcuglodon pygmcEUs Miiller, on examination 

 proves to be a Delphinoid. The species of Miiller is not only generically dis- 

 tinct from Basilosaurus, but from Doryodon also, to which I referred it,* if it 

 be regarded as established on the cranium figured by Gibbes in *he Journal of 

 the Academy. 



DELPHINIDjE. 



Among the vertebras of the species of this family collected by Jas. H. 

 Thomas in the Miocene marls of Charles county, Maryland, may be recognized 

 those of five genera, as follows : 



The caudal vertebrae broader than long; lumbars, sacrals and caudals nearly 

 similar; diapophyses of Inmbars and caudals flat dilated, the latter with 



vertical foramen Delphinus. 



The caudals longer than broad, slender ; diapophyses broad, of caudals per- 

 forate Delphinapterus. 



The caudal vertebrfe longer than broad, lumbars and caudals with flat diapo- 

 physes which are not perforate.. Zarhachis. 



The lumbars, dorsals, and caudals elongate, narrower than long; the diapo- 

 physes of some of the lumbars and of the caudals narrow and spinous, and 



not perforate; epiphysial face plane Priscodelphinus. 



The lumbars and dcrsals shorter, the diapophyses of both posterior lumbars and 

 caudals narrow and subcylindric, not perforate ; epiphysial face grasping 

 the epiphj'sis by four processes, one opposite each neur- and one opposite 



each diapophysis Ixacanthus. 



We find a serial relation among the Dolphins of this period, and exemplified 

 in the characters of the above genera. In Tretosphys the diapophyses are all 

 flat as in Dolphins, generally many of the caudals perforate, with a vertical 

 foramen at the base as in them. This is succeeded by a genus in which the 

 blood vessel which in the former passes through this foramen runs round the 

 front of the base of the diapophysis. In the next form some of those of the 

 caudal vertebrte are narrower, and the posterior subcylindric and spine-like; 

 in the last genus of the series the diapophyses of all the caudals and many of 

 the lumbars have the same spinous form. There is also a relation of a similar 

 kind in the forms of the beak of Miocene Dolphins. All are elongate, some 

 very narrow and prolonged, and some acylindric beak only toothed at the base, 

 (Rhabdosteus Cope). It is an interesting object of inquiry to determine 

 whether the relation of structure of the processes in any way coincides with 

 that seen in the muzzle. 



A point to be noticed in our Miocene Dolphins, as compared with the Inia, Be- 

 luga, Delphinus and Phocaena of the present period, is the universally increased 

 length of the vertebras of the posterior part of the vertebral column. Those 

 species named here Delphinapterus resemble in their dorsal vertebrae the Belu- 

 gas, but the caudals of some, instead of being shortened, as in the latter, do 

 not diminish in length. This points to a more slender form, and with the 

 narrowed diapophyses and increasing thickness of the epiphyses constitutes an 

 approach to the Basilosaurus type. 



* Proc. Acad. 18G7, 155. 



[July, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 187 



IXACANTHUS Cope. 



This genus is similar to tlie next in the cylindric spinous character of the 

 diapophyses af the caudal and lumbosacral vertebraj, but differs from it and 

 all other Delphinidffi with which I am acquainted in the manner of attachment 

 of the epiphyses of the vertebrae. Instead of being nearly plane and thin 

 discs, they are furnished with two oblique faces above, which are capped by a 

 projecting roof formed by the floor of the neural canal, while their central 

 portion forms a knob which fits a corresponding shallow pit of the centrum. 



IXACANTHUS CCELOSPONDYLUS CopC. 



Extremities of centra deeply concave when epiphyses are removed ; length 

 of vertebras less than breadth. 



In. Lin. 



Length centrum lumbar 2 4*5 



Width " " 2 6-5 



Elevation " " 2 4 



Width neural canal on dorsal , 1 



" " " on lumbar 4^ 



Length of caudal vert 2 6 



Transverse diameter , 2 3 



Width diapophysis at base 6 



Lumbar, — elevation of body and spine to anterior zygapophysis 4 9^ 



We have of this species three dorsals, nine lumbo-sacrals and one caudal, 

 one only of the lumbo-sacrals exhibits the spine-lilie diapophysis character- 

 istic of the genus. One of the caudals belongs to an entirely adult animal. 

 The dorsals are rather constricted, and rounded below ; the lumbo-sacrals 

 have a strong median keel, except in one near the canal series, when it again 

 becomes rounded below. 



I first received this species from my kind friend Oliver Norris Bryan, of 

 Charles county, Md. Jas. T. Thoms has also discovered various portions of it. 



PRISCODELPHINUS Leidy. 



Posterior lumbars and caudals spinous, dorsals with flat diapophyses. 



The prominent character of the genus is seen in the lumbo-sacral and 

 caudal vertebrae, whose diapophyses are very narrow at the base, and soon 

 become cylindrical and slender, terminating in an obtuse point. The general 

 form of the vertebrffi is like those of Delphinus, but with the exception above 

 noted, that the caudal vertebrae, instead of being shorter than the dorsals, are 

 really longer, till we approach the posterior portions of the series. The largest 

 of the typical species will not exceed seven feet in length, while the aberrant 

 P. flagellator has been perhaps twelve. 



Tn the P. spinosus Cope, the spinous form of the diapophyses is exhibi- 

 ted among the longer ones of the lumbar series considerably in advance of the 

 caudals. In P. atropius Cope, and P. c o n r a d i Leidy, I have seen it on 

 the most posterior lumbars only, though it may occur further anteriorly, and 

 several such have the diapophyses much narrowed. I have not seen it in 

 theP. harlani Leidy, but it probably exists there, as the species is very 

 near the P. c o n r a d i. 



Priscodelphinus spinosus Cope. 



This species is represented by two cervical, three dorsal and eight lumbo- 

 sacral vertebrae ; they are about as broad as long, with articular faces trans- 

 versely oval. As thev belong to more than one individual they vary a little 

 jnore than is to be expected in a single series. They differ of course greatly 

 in the size of the neural canal, with the position in the column. That with 

 the smallest, (the posterior) exhibits no zygapophyses or their rudiments. 

 General form depressed ; sides of centrum nearly plane to a well-marked 

 obtuse median keel. 



1868.] 




188 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



In. Lin, 



Length centrum lumbar 1 9 



Width articular face 1 7-5 



Heiglit 1 6 



Length diapophysis 2 



Width neural canal "i , ■ f 3 



Whole height of I posterior I 3 g 



Length diapophysis of j lumbar. ^ ^ g.^ 



This is the type of genus, for in it the peculiar form of the diapophyses ex- 

 tends much further forward on the series of vertebraj than in any other. 



Priscodelphinus atropius Cope. 



This species is based upon three cervicals, and three dorsals of one, two 

 lumbars and one caudal of a second individual, one lumbar and one caudal of 

 another, and three lumbars of a fourth. The diapophysis of the caudal is 

 short and spine-like, as in the last genus, and the last lumbar has had a nearly 

 similar process. The centra of all' are veiy slightly depressed and constricted 

 medially. The dorsals are broadly rounded in section without inferior carina ; 

 on the last lumbar the latei'al face below becomes, as in other species, slightly 

 concave. 



This species differs from the P. bar Ian i in that the dorsal vertebras are 

 not so depressed, are stouter, and have not the median inferior keel seen in it. 



Id. Lin. 



Length of a dorsal (No. 1) 2 2 



Width articular face , 1 11-5 



Depth " " 1 7 



Height neural canal (No. 2) 9-7 



Length diapophysis (No. 1) 1 4 



Priscodelphinus harlani Leidy. 

 Proceed. Acad. 1851, 327. 



A few vertebrae of this species occur in the collection. 



Priscodelphinus conradi Cope. 



Delphinus conradi Leidy, Proc. Academy, 1853, 35, Cope, 1. c. 1867, 144. 



This appears to be an abundant species of our Miocene beds. We have tea 

 lumbars and one caudal vertebrae. Its affinities are apparently nearer the last- 

 mentioned species than any other, 



Priscodelphinus stenus Cope. 



This species is represented by two vertebrae, but quite characteristic ones 

 of the lumbar series. They indicate both the smallest and the most slender 

 species of the genus. A section of the vertebra would have an almost exact 

 pentagonal form, though the articular surfaces are subround, and, what occurs 

 in no other species, a little deeper than wide. The neural arch preserved is 

 elevated and possesses a weak pair of zygapophyses. The bases of the broken 

 diapophyses indicate that they are very wide. The lower face of the centrum 

 has a strong median longitudinal angle, stronger than in any species, and not 

 prolonged into a thin keel as in D. ha w ki n s i i. The planes of the centrum 

 are mostly straight. 



In. Lin. 



Length centrum ; 1 7-2 



Height 1 0-5 



Width 1 0-5. 



" neural canal 5-8 



" basis diapophysis 10 



Height neural canal 6 



" zygapophysis 8"2 



[July, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 189 



ZARHACHIS Cope. 



This genus is established on vertebrje which bear a general resemblance to 

 those of Priscodelphinus, but differ in the essential point of having flat and 

 broad diapophyses of the caudals. It is therefore intermediate between that 

 genus and Delphinapterus. The posterior of the caudals in our museum ex- 

 hibits a narrowing of the diapophyses, as certain of the4umbars do in Prisco- 

 delphinus. 



Zarhachis flagellator Cope. 



This species is represented by only two lumbar and two caudal vertebrae, 

 which belonged to at least three different individuals, none of them adult. 

 Neither is any one entirely perfect, but they indicate a very distinct species, 

 by clear characteristics. All these vertebrteare of greater length as compared 

 to the diameter than in any other cetacean known by me except the great 

 Basilosaurus. The lumbars, when compared with those of T. lacertosus, 

 differ in tlieir broadly obtuse median line, which offers distinct trace of the 

 two keels. An anterior caudal either exhibits unusually broad diapophyses, 

 which are directed downwards, or else is a lumbar with two keels, ai^ 

 a median groove below, which is not seen in anj^ other species. The caudals 

 exceed in length those of any other species. One of these, from a large indi- 

 vidual, resembles that of P. a t r o p i u s in the narrow basis of the diapophysis, 

 which is ])robably narrow, and not perforate. The length of the vertebrae is 

 nearly double the vertical depth of the articular faces. The diapophysis is 

 nearly median ; the basis of each neurapophysis is one-half the length of the 

 centrum, and median. 



In. Lin. 



Length lumbar (epiphyses hypothetical) 3 6 5 



Depth 2 2 



Width 2 3 



" neural canal r 2 8 



Length caudal (one epiphysis supplied) 3 10-5 



Depth " 2 4 



Distance between inferior keels 10-5 



Width basis diapophysis 10-5 



DELPHINAPTERUS Less. 



Delphinapterus ruschenbergeri Cope. 



This species is represented by two vertebras, a lumbar and a caudal, which 

 indicate an animal of about the same or a little larger size than the Prisco- 

 delphinus s te nu s. They are also of a slender form, more so than in any 

 species of the last genus. What distinguishes it generically, is that instead of 

 the slender diapophyses of the caudal it has the broad ones of the true Dol- 

 phins, though broader even than is usual in these, and it is perforated a little 

 on one side of the middle by the foramen seen among Whales and Dolphins 

 generally. 



Articular faces transverse oval ; centrum slightly constricted with an 

 obtuse keel along the median line. The two inferior keels of the caudal vanish 

 on part of the middle of the centrum. 



In. Lin. 



Length centrum 1 9 



Height " , 10-3 



Width " 12 5 



" neural canal 5-2 



" basis diapophysis lumbar. 10-5 



« " " caudal 10- 



A dorsal vertebra which relates in age and size with the preceding, is 

 more than usually constricted lateromedially, the inferior line concave, and 

 slightly keeled; length 1G|- 1., width 12-5 1. 



1868.] 




190 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



This species is dedicated to W. S. W. Rusclienberger, M. D., of this city, 

 an active member of the Academy, and author of introductory works on 

 Natural History. 



Delphinapterds lacertosus Cope. 



This is much the largest species of the genus. It is based on two lumbar 

 vertebrte which have been united by an exostosis and then separated. They 

 are quite elongate and have broad diapophyses so far as their bases indicate. 

 The articular surfaces are about as broad as deep, and slightlj' pentagonal in 

 outline, not ovoid or discoid as in other species. The lower surface presents 

 an obtuse median angle, with slightly concave sides. The general proportions 

 can be derived from the measurements. 



In. Lin. 



Length centrum 3 5-5 



Heighth articular surface 2 2-5 



Width '' " 2 4-5 



" neural canal V-S 



" base diapophysis 1 9 



In addition to the above, there are in the Museum of the Academy speci- 

 mens of dorsal lumbar and caudal vertebras of this species from the Miocene 

 of Cumberland county, New Jersey. They all belong to one individual and 

 represent the characters of the species well. The lurabars are all strongly 

 keeled below, and the dorsals narrowly rounded, and slightly concave on each 

 side. One posterior caudal, with rudimental anterior zygapophyses exhibits 

 rather short diapophyses pierced by the vertical foramen. I therefore refer 

 this species to Tretosphys with the remark, that it is not so typical as the first 

 mentioned species, where the perforation is at the middle of a broad, well 

 developed transverse process. 



The two species which follow are assigned to this genus, only on account of 

 their resemblance to the present one, as I have not seen the caudal vertebrse of 

 either. They may be thought to rest on but a slight basis — but as they are 

 extremely easily distinguished among several bushels of bones of other species, 

 I feel entire confidence in their reliability. 



Delphinapterus tyranncs Cope. 



This is a large species, doubtfully of the genus, not uncommon in the 

 Miocene formations of Maryland. It is represented in the collection by one 

 dorsal and three lumbars. Three of these serve as the type of our diagnosis. 

 They are much shorter in relation to their other dimensions than those of any 

 other fossil dolphin h erein described, except the Ixacanthi,and they have the broad 

 diapophyses of the genus Delphinus. The epiphyses are unfortunately lost, 

 and but three of the specimens belong to the same individual. Articular sur- 

 faces broader than high, latery faces concave everywhere and in every direc- 

 tion ; below they meet in an obtuse concave ridge. 



In. Lin. 



Length centrum lumbar (epiphyses supplied) 3 



Depth " 2 10-5 



"Width " 2 3-2 



" neural canal 6-7 



" basis diapophyses 2 0-5 



Length lumbar of larger individual 



The rugosity of the epiphysial surfaces is less marked and more intrerupted, 

 i. e. without radiating ridges, than in any other species. 



Delphinapterus hawkinsii Cope. 



This species is based on two lumbar veterbras, which resemble those of P- 

 conradi, {Delphinus conradi Leidy), but are of much larger size and are 

 furnished with a strong and acute keel below on the median line, as is seen in 

 no other species. The diapophyses are very wide at the base ; centrum much 



[July, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 191 



depressed. Both these specimens are young and have lost their epiphyses ; 

 with the latter, they would be relatively as slender as those ofD. lacertosus; 

 they differ from the latter in their deep lieel, like that of a boat. 



A dorsal vertebra is with much probability referred to the same species. It 

 is therefore a little shorter than the lumbars and has not so strong a keel ; yet 

 the latter is more marked than in any other species, contrasting much with the 

 round face of the D. la c e r t o s u s. It is adult with fixed epiphyses ; the articu- 

 lar faces are subround. The upper part of the diapophyses come from the base 

 of the neural arch, and the neural canal is wide, with median ridge as usual. 



In. Lin. 



Length, dorsal, centrum 2 11-5 



Depth articular face 2 0-5 



"Width of " " 2 2-5 



" " centrum at base transverse margin of diapophysis 2 10-3 



Length centrum lumbar 3 6 



Width in front diapophysis 2 5-2 



" of " I 10-5 



Depth centrum from canal to edge of keel 1 10-5 



This species is named for my friend B. Waterhouse Hawkins, the restorer of 

 the extinct mammals and reptiles at Sydenham Palace, England, who is now 

 engaged in the Museum of the Academy on a similar work-for the Central Park, 

 New York. 



Delphi.\apter0s gabbii Cope. 



This species is indicated by a well preserved caudal vertebra of an adult, 

 which is so different from anything else in our Museum as to require notice. 

 It has pertained to a species of not more than half the length of the T. 

 gr an d a e v u s, and is less strongly constricted everywhere and especially 

 below. In a caudal of near the same position, the ridges and chevron artic- 

 ular surfaces are much more elevated, especially those on the anterior part of 

 the centrum. The}' embrace a very deep groove in this, a shallow one in the 

 T. gabbii. An additional longitudinal ridge on each side the inferiors in 

 front is wanting in T. gabbii. Both have a delicate one above the dia- 

 pophyses in front, the T. grandaevus behind also. There is no posterior 

 zygapophysis in the T. gabbii; the caudal of the latter is also relatively 

 shorter. 



In. Lin. 



Length centrum » 2 



Depth articular face anterior 1 5-7 



Width " " " 1 7 



This species is dedicated to my friend Wm. M. Gabb, Paleontologist of the 

 State Geological Survey of California. 



To this genus belongs also the Priscodelphinus grandaevus of Leidy. 

 This species is not rare in our collections. 



I may add that there still remain species of DelphinidiB in the collection 

 which are as yet undescribed. 



The vertebi'ae of several rather small species of this family were procured 

 by J. T. Thomas, of which a few are sufficiently characteristic for descrip- 

 tion. They are accompanied by the other bones of the body, but as these 

 must be allocated with much care and labor, and as the vertebrje are most 

 abundant and therefore characteristic of the beds, I think best to describe 

 them from these. 



ESCHRICHTIDS Gray. ' 



ESCHRICHTIDS PUSILLUS CopC. 



This species is indicated by many vertebrae, of which one dorsal, six of the 

 1868.] 




192 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



himbars, and one caudal may serve as types. They indicate a species of less 

 size than any heretofore described, except perhaps the B. rostra t a now 

 living. They are about half the size of the vertebrae of Bala?noptera 

 prisca and, B. p a 1 cB a 1 1 an t i c a, and 3-5ths those of Eschrichtius 

 cephalus. 



The dorsal is a little longer than transverse width of centrum, and 2-5ths 

 longer than vertical width of the same ; the latter is therefore a depressed oval. 

 Inferior surface a regular arch from side to side. The lumbars have the 

 usual median keel, and the articular faces are not quite so transverse ; the 

 external planes are generally concave. The venous foramina in these are 

 so small as not to be noticeable. 



The articular faces of the caudal are a little more compressed and nearly 

 as deep as wide. The two inferior keels are very slight, the diapophysis are 

 not perforate, and the neural arch stands on 3-5ths length of the centrum. 



In. Lin. 



Length dorsal, 4 II 



Height articular face 3 6-2 



Width " " 4 3 



Width neural canal 1 4 



Lumbar length 4 11 



Height articular surface 3 11 



Width " " 4 2 



" neural canal 10 



Caudal, length , 4 



Height articular surface 3 9 5 



" to zygapophyses , 5 2 



Width articular surfaces 4 



Several cervical vertebrse show the characters of the genus and species. 

 They are all distinct, and their parapophyses and diapophyses have not prob- 

 ably been united, as the portions of them remaining are quite slender. 



The superficial dense bony layer of the ramus of the mandible, of which we 

 have specimens, is well developed, and nowhere fissured, and the nutritious 

 foramina small. The ramus moderately convex on both faces, much as in 

 the Balaenoptera p r i s c a , [Balxna Leidy), and like it, the nutritious fora- 

 mina were arranged in a series on each side of and close to the median 

 superior ridge. What distinguishes it from the latter is the presence of a 

 distinct median ridge, which separated from the inner face of the ramus by 

 a strong longitudinal groove. The nutritious foramina of the inner side 

 penetrate along the line of this groove. The size is about one-third the 

 same portion of the jaw of the B. prisca. Like the latter its inferior 

 margin is greatly decurved, and the outer side more convex than the inner. 



In. Lin. 



Length of fragment 15 



Depth inner face 2 



Circumference 5 2-5 



Remains of the mandibles of this species are not uncommon in the Miocene 

 region in the beds of streams. I have in similar situations dug out the 

 vomers of two whales whose size would correspond with the present. Bullae 

 of the periotic bones of small Balasnidae are not uncommon in the same 

 beds, and I suspect are mostly to be referred to this and the succeeding 

 species. 



The species appears to occur in the phosphatic deposit of the neighborhood 

 of Charleston, South Carolina, as I have a specimen of a lumbosacral ver- 

 tebra from that locality. It was among the toothless whales what the small 

 elephant of Malta was to the giant elephants. Our specimens have belonged 

 to individuals of not more than fifteen feet in length, and probably adult. 



[July, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 193 



MEGAPTERA Gray. 



Mkgaptera EXP ansa Cope. 



This species is based on numerous vertebrae from the Thomas collection, 

 several trom the Nomini Cliffs, Westmoreland county, Virginia, presented to 

 the Academy by my friend Oliver N. Bryan, of Charles county, Md.^ and by 

 some in the Academy's Museum from Virginia. 



The cervicals have a greater antero-posterior diameter than those of the 

 Eschrichtius species, but show quite similar di- and parapophyses. They 

 are, however, not at present in my possession, and their full description must 

 be postponed for a time. 



There are also ten dorsals and several lumbars and probably some cervi- 

 cals from the same collection. The former have a broad and capacious 

 neural canal, and the diapophysis is given off in all from the neural arch. 

 In the lumbars this process is of course given off lower down, but in them it 

 is flatter than usual. The centrum has somewhat the form of some of those 

 of Doryodon, being broad and of little antero-posterior diameter. The 

 articular faces have a transverse subcordate outline, being flat above. The 

 basal face without keel. The form of the epiphyses indeed approaches sub- 

 trigonal. 



In. Lin. 



Length anterior dorsal 2 9 



Height articular face 2 8 



Width " " 4 



" neural canal 1 9'7 



Length median dorsal 3 2-5 



Height articular face 3 05 



Width " " 3 7 



" neural canal 14-5 



The size of this species is quite comparable to that of the Eschrichtius 

 p u s i 11 us, being one of the smaller species. The elevated position of its 

 diapophyses disiinguishes it from all the Squalodons. 

 The extinct species of Balaenidai of the United Htates are the following: 



Megaptera expansa Cope. 



Eschrichtius cephalus Cope. 



Eschrichtius leptocentrus Cope. 



Eschrichtius pusillus Cope. 



Bal^noptera prisca Leidy.- 



Bal-«noptera pala:atlaxtica Leidy. 

 There is no evidence that either of the two last named species are true 

 Baltenopteri. They may be Eschrichtii, but cannot at present be referred to 

 those known as above. 



It is to be observed that none of the Miocene species exhibit the dimen- 

 sions possessed by the largest existing species, while several of them are 

 smaller than the least of those of modern seas. The present period would 

 appear, with present information, to be that in which these monsters have 

 attained their greatest bulk. 



The recent Balienidaj of our coasts are the following : 



Bal^na mysticetus Linn., Polar Sea. 



Bal^ena cisarctica Cope, Temperate Sea. 



Balaina cullamach Cham., North Pacific. 



Agaphelus glaucus Cope, Temper. Pacific. 



Agaphelus gibbosus Erxl., Temp. Atlantic. 



Megaptera osphyia Cope, " " 



Megaptera longimana Gray, Polar Seas. 



Eschrichtius ? robustus Lillj., Temp. Atlantic. 



BAL.EN0PTERA ROSTRATA Fab., North Atlantic. 



SiBBALDius LATiCEPS Gray, North Atlantic. 

 1868.] 




194 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



The following notes on these species may be in place here. 



Of the Biila-na cisarctica there is a skeleton in the Museum of the 

 Academy of an individual of thirty-seven feet, and a ramus maudibuli of 

 sixteen feet in length, indicating a total of sixty-eight feet adult size. A 

 scapulajn the Museum Rutger's College, New Brunswick, N. J , measures 36 

 inches in height, and 48 5 in. in width, indicating an adult of 57 feet in 

 length. A young individual of 45 feet line measurement, awaits mounting 

 in the Museum Compar. Zoology, Cambridge, Mass. Of this individual I will 

 shortly give a detailed description in an es^ay on the species Like the other 

 specimens, it presents a strong acromion. The phalanges of the manus ex- 

 hibited an important diflerence from those of B. a u s t r a 1 i s. In it they 

 number respectively 2—5 — 6 — 3 — 3, while Cuvier gives (Oss. Foss. 227, 23) 

 2—5—6—5—4. 



The species of Agaphelus are briefly noticed in the present number of the 

 Academy's proceedings. They will be more fully described shortly from 

 material at present in hand. 



A second and more full examination of the skeleton of the Megaptera 

 o s p h y i a Cope, furnishes the following additional points and characters. 

 The specimen is young, and measures in its present condition, 34 feet. It 

 has, however, lost a considerable number of caudal vertebra;, and from the 

 posterior part of the column, of intervertebral cartilages also ; add to this 

 the shrinking of the cartilages preserved, and the increase of length would 

 perhaps amount to eight feet, giving 42 in all. The asserted length of fifty 

 feet line measurement, which I quoted in my original description, is no 

 doubt an exaggeration. 



The glenoid process is margined by an angular prominence, the rudiment 

 of the coracoid, precisely as in the M. b r a s i 1 i e n s i s. The diapophysis 

 of the atlas is a flat vertical plate, extending from opposite the base of the 

 foramen de/iiati to opposite the widest point of the spinal canal ; inferior poste- 

 rior outline of the atlas broad, slightly concave medially. The mandible is 

 peculiar in the strong angular process, which extends from behind round the 

 side, projecting as far as the condyle, and separated from it by a deep groove. 

 The third and fourth cervicals are united by the neural arch. The first rib 

 is very broad at the extremity ; length 37 inches, width at end, 8-22 in. The 

 orbital processes of the frontal bone are not contracted at the extremities as 

 in M. 1 n g i m a n a, but are more as in Bala^nopterse ; entire width over and 

 within edge of orbit, 15^ in. ; length to vertical plate of maxillary 31 in. The 

 baleen measures two feet in length, is black, with three rows of coarse bristles. 

 Its base is one curve ; its length is spirally twisted. 



The species is probably one of the largest of the Balrenida;. 



The Eschrichtius r ob u s t u s is admitted on the evidence of a ramus of 

 the under jaw in the Museum Rutger's College, which is of peculiar form, 

 and closely resembles the figure given by Lilljeborg of that portion of thid 

 rare species. 



August Ath. 



The President, Dr. Hays, in tlie Chair. 

 Eighteen members present. 



August 11th. 



Mr. Cassin, Vice-President, in the Chair. 



Twenty members present. 



[August, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



195 



On favorable report of the committees, the following papers were 

 ordered to be published : 



Notice of some remains of HORSES 

 BY JOSEPH LEIDY, M. T>. 



Mr. W. Lorenz loaned me for examination a horse tooth, black in color, and 

 devoid of its outer cementum,from diluvium, occupying a depression about six 

 feet in depth and about twenty feet in breadth, in the Silurian slate, between 

 Rutherford's Station and Highspire, Lebanon Co., Pa. It is stained in texture 

 with iron, mutilated at its lower part, and not petrified. It is a fifth upper 

 molar of an individual which had just attained maturity, and does not differ 

 characteristically from the corresponding tooth of the recent horse at the same 

 age. The inflection of enamel at the bottom of the principal internal valley of 

 the triturating surface is minute, but this is the case occasionally in the cor- 

 responding tooth in the living horse. The size of the tooth also is about that 

 of the ordinary full-sized horse. The measurements, in comparison with a 

 fifth molar contained in a recent horse skull, are as follows : 



Fossil. Recent. 



Length .. 40 lines. 34 lines. 



Breadth fore and aft 15^ " 15 " 



Width, transversely 12 " 12 " 



The tooth may be viewed as having belonged to an indigenous horse, a co- 

 temporary of the Mastodon, but it is equally improbable. 



Prof. Whitney has recently submitted to my inspection a fossil horse tooth 

 from Martinez, Contra Costa Co., California, the largest I have ever seen or 

 can recollect of being on record. The formation from which it was derived 

 Prof. Wliitney considers to be of pliocene age. The tooth is well preserved, 

 retaining its outer cementum, and is but slightly, if at all, changed in texture. 

 The tooth is a second upper molar, nearly half-worn. The triturating surface 

 in its arrangement of the enamel presents nothing strikingly different from that 

 of the corresponding tooth of the recent horse. As in this there is an inflection 

 of the enamel at the bottom of the principal internal valley, and in this respect 

 and the less simplicity of folding of the enamel islets of the triturating surface, 

 differs from Equus excdsws of the Niobrara and of California. The tooth pro- 

 bably represents an extinct species, upwards of eighteen hands high. Its 

 measurements are as follows : 

 Length along the outer median column to the origin of the fangs.... 2G.} lines. 



Breadth of triturating surface fore and aft Itij " 



Thickness independent of cementum 15 " 



" with cementum 16 " 



The species represented by the tooth may be distinguished by the name of 

 Equus pacificus. J had previously seen fragments of an upper molar and two 

 lower molars, apparently of the same species, from the same locality, submit- 

 ted to my inspection by Prof. Whitney several years ago. 



Coincidentally, Dr. Le Conte has just handed to me a bone indicating the 

 smallest species of horse of which I have any knowledge. The bone, a second 

 ungual phalanx or coronary bone, together with the proximal end of a meta- 

 carpal of a ruminant, were obtained by John C. Browne from a well 60 feet 

 deep, at Antelope, Nebraska, 450 miles west of Omaha. The coronary bone 

 in its axis is 9 lines long; the same width at the proximal end, and -rather 

 more than a line less at the distal end. From its relation of size with that 

 of the recent horse, the animal to which it belonged was about eight hands 

 high. It is uncertain to what solipedal genus the bone actually belongs, but 

 in the absence of more characteristic materials, it may be viewed as repre- 

 senting a species of Equus. 



1868.] 




196 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Notice of some extinct CETACEANS. 

 BY JOSEPH LEIDY, M. D. 



HOPLOCETDS OBESUS. 



Prof. F. S. Holmes, of Charleston, S. C, has recently submitted to my in- 

 spection a remarkable tooth and the fragment of another, which I recognize 

 as having belonged to an extinct genus of Cetaceans, characterized under the 

 name of Hoplocetus by Gervais, from similar teeth derived from the miocene 

 and pliocene formations of France. The tooth, indeed, bears a near resem- 

 blance to that of //. crassidens, represented in figure 10, plate xx, of Gervais' 

 Pal^ontologie Francaise, both in form and size, but is more curved, in this 

 respect resembling more the tooth of that represented in fig. 11 of the same 

 plate. Prof. Holmes' specimens were obtained from the post pliocene forma- 

 tion of Ashley River, in the vicinity of Charleston, S. C. 



The more complete tooth has the end of the fang and a good portion of the 

 crown broken away. The latter was worn away, leaving on the summit a 

 broad, flat, discoidal surface. The enamel, where it remains, forms a band 

 encircling about one-third of the crown, about three lines in depth, and one- 

 fourth of a line thick. It appears to have been rugose longitudinally. The 

 fang, a striking character in the teeth referred to Hoplocetus, is fusiform, re- 

 markably robust, and large in proportion to the crown. It is straight at the 

 bottom two-thirds, but curved towards the crown, so that this appears to be 

 obliquely implanted upon it. The interior of the fang is pervaded by a 

 narrow pulp cavity of irregular diameter, from the existence at its sides of 

 nodosities. The part constituting the technical neck of the tooth is feebly 

 constricted. The measurements of the specimen are as follows : 



Length in present condition in a straight line 44 lines. 



Estimated length of fang restored 52 " 



Greater diameter of fang 19 " 



Lesser " " 16^ '« 



Estimated diameter of crown at base 8 " 



The fang of this tooth appears to consist of an axis of dentine about equal 

 in diameter to the crown, and its great accession of bulk appears to be due to 

 the cemental layer. 



The second specimen consists of the fragment of a tooth devoid of crown. 

 The tooth has been of little greater bulk than the preceding, as the diameter 

 of the remaining portion of the fang is 20^ lines. 



Almost immediately after the reception of the above specimens, quite un- 

 expectedly' and purely coiucidentally, I received, among some other cetaceous 

 remains, another tooth, referable to Hoplocetus, from my friend, Prof. Wyman 

 of Cambridge. This specimen was derived from the miocene formation in 

 the vicinity of Richmond, Va. The tooth is much larger and straighter 

 throughout than the better preserved of the two preceding specimens, and 

 may perhaps belong to a different species, — a conjecture which is favored in 

 the fact that the tooth was also derived from a different geological for- 

 mation. 



The crown is worn off in a blunt manner or somewhat convex disk, about 

 9 lines in diameter, and is encircled by a more or less worn and broken band 

 of longitudinally rugose enamel, varying in depth from three to five lines, 

 and one-third of a line in thickness. The fang is broken at its end, and ex- 

 hibits- a long conical pulp cavity, large enough to introduce the end of the 

 middle finger for an inch or more. The fang in shape is fusiform, exceed- 

 ingly robust, straight, and somewhat quadrate. As in the other specimens, 

 it is composed of a dentinal axis near the diameter of the crown, enveloped 

 in a huge accumulation of cementum. The length of the specimen in a 

 straight line, in its present condition, is 55 lines. The fang in a restored 



[August* 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 197 



condition is estimated to have been 5 inches long. The diameter of the fang 

 is 20 and 21 J lines. 



In the large proportion of cementum to the dentinal axis of the teeth of 

 Iloplocetus they bear such a resemblance to the fragments found in the Red 

 Crag of England, and referred b}' Prof. Owen to a genus under the name of 

 Balxnodoti, as to render it probable the former is the same as the latter. 



Tbe relations of Hoplocetus or Balxnodon, other than that they were toothed 

 cetaceans, are unlinown. 



DeLPHIiNUS oociduos. 



An e-xtinct species is indicated by a fossil derived from the upper miocene 

 formation of Half-moon Bay, California, submitted to my examination by 

 Prof. J. D. Whitney. The specimen consists of an intermediate portion of 

 the upper jaw, devoid of teeth, and encrusted with seleniie. It measures 

 along the more perfect lateral border 5 inches, and in this extent is occupied 

 with 19 closely set, circular alveoli, rather over 2 lines in diameter. At the 

 back of the fragment the jaw has measured a little more than 2 inches wide. 

 From this position it gradually tapers for half its length, and then proceeds 

 with parallel sides to tbe fore end, where it is 10} lines wide. The palate 

 behind is nearly plane or slightly convex; at its fore part it presents a deep 

 median groove, closed by the apposition of the maxillaries, and this groove 

 is separated only by a narrow ridge from the alveoli. The sides of the max- 

 illaries are slightly concave longitudinally, convex transversely. The inter- 

 maxillaries are broken away, leaving a wide, angular gutter between the 

 remains of the maxillaries. 



Remarks on a jaw fragment of MEGALOSATIRTJS. 

 BY JOSEPH LEIDY, M. D. 



A fossil worthy of notice in the Museum of the Academy consists of the 

 fragment of a jaw, apparently of the Megalosaurus, which, if it does not be- 

 long to a different species from 31. BucHandi, indicates an individual larger 

 than any one of those referred to by Buckland, Cuvier, Owen, etc. The fossil 

 was purchased in England, and was presented to the Academy by Dr. Thomas 

 H. Wilson. It is labelled, " Fragment d'une machoire de Megalosaurus trouv6 

 dans le lias ii Boue (or Boues). L'animal est extremement rare ici. II avait 

 45 pied de longeur." In another hand it is marked " Jura Mts." 



The fragment contains two mutilated teeth, visible throughout their length 

 from the inner part of the jaw being broken away. The matrix adhering to 

 the fossil consists of an oolite composed of a homogeneous clay-colored basis, 

 with imbedded granules, of a rounded form, brown and shining. 



The teeth are inserted into the jaw about two-thirds their length, and more 

 than three-fourths the depth of the bone. They have measured 5} and 6 

 inches in length. The breadth at the base of the enamelled crown of the 

 best preserved tooth is 14| lines, which is nearly the fourth of an inch 

 greater than in the largest tooth represented in any of Prof. Owen's figures 

 in his Monograph of the Fossil Reptiles of the Wealden Formation. A tooth 

 apparently nearly as large in an American ally, is one referred to Dinodon 

 horridus, and represented in fig. 21, pi. 9, of my memoir on the Extinct Verte- 

 brata of the Judith River, published in the eleventh volume of the Transac- 

 tions of the American Philosophical Society. The reconstructed outline of 

 this figure is, however, too large, rendered so by the too distant removal of 

 the ap° X of the tooth from the other fragment. The breadth of this specimeu 

 really did not exceed an inch. 



The longe-t tooth of the fossil under inspection, for the most part broken 

 away, exhibits a mould of the large interior pulp cavity. This mould, from 

 the hotiom of the latter to its broken end in the position of the crown, is S^- 



1868.] 




198 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



inches lonf^. The broken end is 8 lines wide and 1| lines thick ; the widest 

 and thickest part of the mould near the middle of the length of the tooth is 

 Hi lines wide and 5 lines thick. 



The fangs of the teeth do not continue of the same width to the bottom, as 

 in the teeth of crocodiles, and, as I believe, is considered to be the case in 

 Megalosaurus^ but from about their middle they contract, or become narrower, 

 as is ordinarily the case in mammals. Indeed, one of these teeth isolated 

 might be taken for the canine of a Drepanodon, or sabre-toothed tiger. In 

 the fossil the bottoms of the fangs narrow antero-posteriorly, and become 

 thinner from without inwardly, and they also curve somewhat in the latter 

 direction. 



The long fangs of the teeth in the fossil, and their becoming narrowed at 

 bottom, at first led me to suspect the specimen belonged to a different genus 

 from ilegalosaurus, but a view of fig. 1, plate xii, of Prof. Owen's raonograjih 

 above mentioned, seems to prove by the appearance of the successional teeth 

 within the jaw, that the fangs actually become narrowed towards the bottom 

 in that genus. 



In the best preserved tooth of the fossil, the enamelled crown exhibits the 

 same shape, familiar as the characteristic form of \.\\&i of Mcgalosaurus. The 

 trenchant borders of the crown are denticulate, and the enamel is compara- 

 tively smooth, or only very feebly striate. 



The contracted condition of the bottom of the fangs of the teeth would 

 leave more space than there otherwise would be for the derelopment of suc- 

 cessional teeth within the jaw. In the fossil the remains of one of the latter 

 is seen at the lower part internally of one of the functional teeth, and an im- 

 pression in a corresponding position of the other functional tooth indicates 

 a similar occupant. 



In the progress of the successional teeth of 3Icgalosaurus, their summit 

 first appeared at the margin of the jaw internally to the teeth in functional 

 position. In the course of growth and protrusion they excited absorption in 

 the contiguous bone and fang of their predecessors, and continuing to ad- 

 vance from within and beneath (in the lower jaw), as it were, shouldered the 

 latter from the jaw. A third tooth in Megalosaurus appears to have occupied 

 a position internal to the second one, before the protrusion of this from the 

 jaw. 



The outer portion of the jaw bone retained in the specimen has an average 

 depth from the alveolar border of 5 inches. Its outer surface is a vertical 

 plane, rounding only near the base. 



The present opportunity is an appropriate one to make a few remarks on the 

 American 2i\\\Q?, of Megalosaurus. Since I have had the opportunity of inspecting 

 theremains of the remarkable reptile from the green sand of New Jersey, de- 

 scribed by Prof. Cope (Proc. 1866, 275) under the name of Lxlaps Qqicilunguis, in 

 observing the comparative uniformity of the teeth, identical in character with 

 those of Megalosaurus, I am more strongly impressed with the idea that the 

 teeth of like shape forming part of those referred by me to Dinodon, alone 

 belong to this genus. The others, of which no representatives have been ' 

 discovered or recognized as belonging to Megalosaurus or Lcelaps, most pio- 

 bably indicate a distinct genus and species, for which I propose the name of 



ACBLYSODON MIRANDUS. 



Future discovery may prove Lxlnps and Dinodon identical, and, judging 

 from the comparison of corresponding parts of the jaws and the teeth, will 

 be found to be more closely allied to 3Iegalosaurus than was suspected, even 

 should they not prove to be generically the same. 



It is clear, from an examination of the anterior portion of the mandible of 

 MegalosaMrus described and figured by Buckland, Cuvier, Owen, etc., that no 

 such teeth as those now referred to Aublgsodon occupied the forepart of the 

 jaw. It is also probable that the upper teeth of Megalosaurus and of its 



[August, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 199 



allies differ ia no important point from those below. It follows, therefore, 

 that the teeth now referred to Auhlysodon, if they belong to the maxillary or 

 mandibular series of Megalosaurus or its allies, could only pertain to the 

 back part. The variation in form of the teeth in question appears too great 

 for such a position. 



The teeth now viewed as characteristic of Aubh/sodon are represented in 

 figs. 36 — 45, pi. ix of vol. xi of the Transactions of the American Philosophi- 

 cal Society. The specimens consist of parts of three teeth, which differ 

 much in size and other important points. In general the crowns are laterally 

 compressed conical, with the anterior part thick and convex transversely as 

 well as longitudinally, and with the sides nearly parallel. The posterior part 

 farms a surface nearly as wide as the thickness of any part of the crown, and 

 is defined from the lateral surfaces at right angles. In the two larger teeth 

 these angles or borders are denticulated, like the trenchant borders of the 

 teeth oi Megalosaurus and its American allies. In the longest tooth (fig. 35, 

 36, op cit.) the posterior surface forms an even plane; in the second sized 

 tooth (figs. 37 — 40) the posterior surface presents a median elevation. In 

 the smallest tooth (figs. 41 — 45), which indeed may belong to a different 

 animal from the preceding, the borders defining the posterior surface are 

 somewhat prominent backward, non-deniiculate, and subside approaching 

 the base of the crown so as to make a transverse section in this position oval 

 (fig. 45). 



Hadrosanrus FouUcii, the bulky vegetable feeder, and cotemporary of the 

 rapacious Lmlaps aquilunguis, was at most probably only specifically distinct 

 from Trachodon mirabilis, the teeth of which were found in association with 

 those of Diiiodon, so that, according to the laws of nomenclatun^, as Trachodon 

 has priority of name, I suppose the first mentioned aninial must be called 

 Trachodon Foidkii. though the names of Uadrosaurus Foulkii and //. mirabilis 

 would appear more appropriate for these powerful dinosaurs. 



The best preserved tooth of those originally referred to Trachodon, repre- 

 sented in figs. 1 — 6 of the plate above cited, is identical in form with those 

 referred to Uadrosaurus, and differs only in the absence of the rugulations of 

 the lateral borders of tfie crown, and in some less important points. 



The remaining specimens of teeth referred with tlie former to Trachodon, 

 are represented in figs. 7 — 20 of the plate cited. Most of them are so worn 

 and probably altered from their original form, that it is rendered uncertain 

 whether ihey belong to the same animal as the preceding tooth, and one 

 unworn (figs. 18 — 20) has a very different shape from this. Perhaps these 

 specimens belonged to another Dinosaur, for which the name Trachodon xn\g\xl 

 be reserved, while that of Uadrosaurus might include the first mentioned and 

 more characteristic tooth. 



As lyuanodonh-xA its enemy in a species of Megalosaurus, Trachodon, the 

 representative of the former both in the western and eastern portions of the 

 North American continent, was accompanied by an equally bloodthirsty 

 enemy, which may, perhaps, on nearer comparison of corresponding parts, 

 prove to be another species of the same genus, until now supposed to be 

 different, under the names of Dinodon and Leiaps. 



Prof. Cope remarks of Lieln.ps (Pr. A. N. S. 1866, 276), that " in its dentition 

 and huge prehensile claws it resembled closely MegalosauruK, but the femuTj 

 resembling in its proximal regions more nearly the Iguanodon, indicated the 

 probable existence of other equally important differences, and its pertinence 

 to another genus." Thus the genus is especially distinguished f>y the appa- 

 rent peculiarity of the femtir, but in my estimation even this disappears if 

 the bone referred to Lxlaps be viewed in the corresponding position to that 

 of M. Bucklandi, represented in pi. vii, pt. iii, of Prof. Uwen's Monograph of 

 the Fossil Reptiles of the Wealden, which appears to me to be the reversed 

 one to that in which Prof Cope has described it in Pr. A. N. S. 1866, 276. 



The teeth oi Bathygnalhus, a huge carnivorous reptile, whose remains have 



1868.] • 




200 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



been found in the triassic red sandstone of Prince Edward's Island, have 

 the same form as those of Megalosaurus, Dinodon and Lielaps. But here, so 

 far as we have the corresponding parts for comparison, the resemblance 

 ceases. The remarkable depth of the dentary bone in relation with its 

 length in Batliygnathris, indicates a form of head very different from that of 

 Megalosaurus and its American representatives. It was this unusual relation 

 of depth to breadth which led me to suspect a form of head more in accord- 

 ance with that of the skeleton of an upright animal, and led me to ask the 

 question, "was this animal probably not one of the bipeds which made the 

 so-called bird tracks of the New Red Sandstone of the valley of the Con- 

 necticut?" (See Jour. Ac. Nat. Sc. 1854, 329 ) 



Subsequently, in examining the remains of Iladrosaurus, the American 

 representative of -/^'f/r/norfon, from the great disproportion between the fore 

 and hind parts of the body, I was led "to suspect that this great herbivorous 

 lizard sustained itself in a semi-erect position on the huge hinder extremities 

 and tail, while it browsed on plants growing upon the shores of the ocean." 

 (Cret. liept. of the U. S. 1865, 97.) 



The remains referred to Lxlaps exhibit even a far greater disproportion 

 between the fore and hind limbs than in Hadrosaiirus, which, together with 

 its long bird-like claws, etc., suggested to Prof. Cope a similar position of 

 body to that oi Iladrosaurus, and a use of the hind limbs in attack upon the 

 prey of the animal analagous with that in the eagle (Pr. A. N. S. 1806, 279). 

 The extraordinary disproportion between the fore and hind limbs of Lselaps, 

 which appears to me so closely related with Megalosaurus, leads me to sus- 

 pect that the remains described by Buckland, Cuvier, Owen and others, and 

 attributed to the shoulder of J/. Bucklandi, perhaps, at least in part, belong 

 to the pelvis, if they in whole or part do not belong to other animals. Had 

 the humerus oi Lielaps been found isolated, I never would have thought of 

 associating it in the same skeleton with the huge bones of the hinder ex- 

 tremity of that animal. Perhaps, when this great disproportion comes to be 

 known, it may he discovered that there exist specimens of remains of the 

 fore limbs of Megalosaurus, from the Wealden, in the British or other muse- 

 ums of England, which heretofore have excited no suspicion as to their true 

 relations. 



Teratosavrus, from the upper Keuper, in the vicinity of Stuttgart, described 

 by Meyer (Palfeontographica, 1859-61, 258), approached Bathjgnathus most 

 in the proportions of its face, as well as resembled it in the form of the 

 teeth, but the fossil dentary bone of the latter is even still shorter and deeper 

 than would relate to the fossil maxillary of the former. 



Remarks on CONOSAURtTS of Gibbes. 

 BY JOSEPH LEIDY, M. D, 



In a memoir on Mosamurus and the allied genera, by Dr. R. W. Gibbes, pub- 

 lished in the second volume of the Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge, 

 the author described some teeth from the eocene formation of Ashley River, 

 South Carolina, which, from their general resemblance with those of Alosasau- 

 rtis, both in form and conjunction with osseous bases, he referred to a reptile 

 with the name of Conosuurus Boumani. 



An examination of the structure of these teeth proved to me that they be- 

 longed to a fish. The body of the crown is composed of a compact vaso- 

 dentine, invested, in place of enamel, with a thin layer of ordinary dentine. 

 There is no pulp cavity in the interior ; and in the complete teeth, the crown 

 is continuous with a robust osseous fang, resembling in general appearance 

 that of the teeth of Mosasaurus. 



A short time since Prof. F. S. Holmes submitted to my examination the 

 dentary bone of Co/iosaurus, imbedded in a block of white eocene marl, from 



• [August, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 201 



the vicinity of Charleston, South Carolina. The specimen fully confirms the 

 view that the animal is a fish. 



The dentary bone, from its symphysis to where it articulated with the angu- 

 lar bone, judging partly from the bone itself and the impression of the remain- 

 der on the matrix, has been a little over six inches in length. Its depth at the 

 symphysis has been about two and a quarter inches. 



Twelve teeth have occupied the alveolar border in a space of four inches 

 and ten lines, and perhaps a couj)le more occupied the part broken away be- 

 hind. The teeth form an unbroken row, close together, and generally differ 

 but little in size, though those posteriorly are a little the smaller. 



The perfect crown of the teeth forms a nearly regular cone, the fore and aft 

 diameter of the base slightly exceeding the transverse. It is curved inwardly, 

 pointed, smooth, shining, and even, except at the base, where it is slightly 

 fluted, being most so in the anterior teeth, and more or less feebly so in the 

 hinder ones. 



The crown ceases at the alveolar margin, where it becomes continuous with 

 a more robust, solid, oval fang, which is inserted into the jaw and coossified 

 with its alveolus. 



In the dentary bone above mentioned, the crown of the first tooth, or that 

 nearest the symphj-sis, is broken off, displaying a clean continuous disk of vaso- 

 dentine, nearly circular, and about four lines in diameter. The fang is visible 

 from a destruction of a portion of the bone. It is half an inch long, of greater 

 diameter than the base of the crown, and composed of bone hardly more dense 

 than that of the jaw itself, with which it is coossified. The fourth tooth of the 

 series is in the same condition as the former. 



The crown of the second tooth had been shed, and its remaining solid fang 

 is somewhat encroached upon, through absorption, by the fang of the tooth 

 in front. 



The third, eighth and twelfth teeth have been shed, and their fangs absorbed, 

 leaving deep oval cavities. These were filled with matrix, and nothing more. 

 It is probable they contained successioual teeth, which dropped out in the 

 decomposition of the animal. 



The fifth tooth had been shed, and its remaining fang contains a funnel- 

 shaped pit. 



The sixth and tenth teeth alone remain in the specimen, the latter entire, 

 the former without its point. The crown of the sixth was nearly eight lines 

 long; the other is seven lines. 



The crown of the seventh tooth has been broken off, and the fractured surface 

 displays a small central cavity. 



The crown of the ninth tooth, which yas smaller than any of the others, is 

 shed, leaving the fang somewhat excavated; but the sides are narrowed, as if 

 the position of the tooth were to have been obliterated to give more room for 

 the accommodation of others. 



Back of the tenih tooth there is a small pit, probably the remains of the 

 position of an early tooth smaller than that last indicated. This incUided 

 would give thirteen to the series. 



The crown of the eleventh tooth had been shed, leaving a shallow basin on 

 the top of the fang. 



I could find no successioual teeth in the specimen. Those which existed 

 appear to have dropped out of the exposed cavities. 



From a study of the fragment it would appear as if the germs of new teeth 

 originated in the centre of the preexisting teeth, — that is, at the conjunction 

 of the crown and fang. In the development of the new tooth it was first 

 accommodated in its growth by the absorjition of the fang of the old tooth. 

 The crown of the latter being shed, that of the new one gradually assumed its 

 position, and when protruded its fang became coossified with its alveolus. 



A specimen in the museum of the Academy, from Ashley River, S. C, con- 

 sisting of an isolated tooth with the greater portion of its fang, is larger than 



1868.] 14 



f' 




202 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



any of the teeth in the dentary bone above described. The crown is eight lines 

 long and four and a quarter in diameter at base. The fore and back part of 

 the robust osseous fang present concavities, as portions of cavities remaining 

 after the shedding of teeth with absorption of their fangs. 



Of two shed crowns in the museum, from the same locality, one is 5j lines 

 long by 2^ and If in diameter at base ; the other 6| lines long by 3| and 3^ 

 at base. 



The museum of the Academy also contains two specimens consisting of 

 alveolar fragments of jaws with teeth, of the same animal, from Burlington 

 Co., N. J. They were presented by W. J. Taylor, and are reputed to have been 

 obtained from the green sand. 



One of the specimens is 2 J inches long, and contains an alternation of teeth 

 and empty cavities for successional teeth. The first cavity is large, the fang 

 formerly occupying its position being completely absorbed. The second tooth 

 of the specimen is entire. Its crown is 7 lines long by 4 and 3^ at base. The 

 third and fifth cavities for successional teeth are not quite so large as the first, 

 nor are the fangs which occupied them so completely absorbed. The fourth 

 tooth has its crown mutilated. Its base behind is irregularly excavated, but 

 whether by erosion, or whether it is the remains of a position occupied by a 

 successional tooth, I cannot determine. In the sixth tooth the crown is not 

 entirely protruded, and its fang is already coossified with a tubular sheath of 

 the fang of the former tooth which occupied its position. In the seventh tooth 

 the crown is shed, but the fang remains with a large cavity. The crown of 

 the eighth tooth was also shed and the fang nearly obliterated through ab- 

 sorption. 



The smaller alveolar fragment is IJ inches long, and contains two teeth, 

 with an intervening cavity for a successional tooth. Before aud behind the 

 two teeth are the remains of other cavities. 



Though I have an aversion to change names, yet the name Conosavrus is so 

 obviously wrong and liable to mislead, especially also as there is a saurian 

 named C'oniosaurus, that I propose for the former the name of Conosaurops. 



I may here take occasion to mention that I have suspected that the tooth 

 represented in figs. 7, 8, 9, pi. xx, of my " Cretaceous Reptiles of the United 

 States," and referred to a carnivorous reptile with the name of Tomodon, may 

 also have been a fish. The base of the specimen presents an irregular porous 

 condition, but this I suspect rather to be the result of erosion. As it is unique, 

 I have not been able to obtain a section to examine its microscopic structure. 

 As the name TomodonhixA been previously appropriated by Dum^ril for a genus 

 of serpents, I would propose to alter the name applied to the animal to which 

 the fossil belonged, to that of Diplo'i;(|modon. 



August ISth. 

 The President, Dr. Hays, in the Chair. 

 Sixteen members present. 



August 25 th. 

 The President, Dr. Hays, in the Chair. 



Twenty-three members present. 



Messrs. Uselraa Smith and B. Waterhouse Hawkins were elected 

 members. 



Mr. Ralph Tate, of London, was elected a correspondent. 



On favorable report of the Committee^ the following paper was 

 ordered to be printed : 



[August, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 203 



On the Crocodilian genus PEROSUCHU S. 

 BY EDWARD D. COPE. 



Characters. — Toes 5-4, with claws two — three. No osseous nasal septum 

 or bony eyelid. Belly protected by series of osseous plates, as well as the 

 back. 



All the genera of Crocodiles hitherto known as living are characterized 

 by the possession of three claws on the fore foot. The present therefore 

 offers a remarkable exception. The free fingers and half webbed toes, and 

 the bony abdominal buckler, together with the cartilaginous nasal septum are 

 points of strong resemblance to Jacare (Gray, including Cxman Gray), but it 

 differs from these creatures in the lack of bony orbital plate. In specific cha- 

 racters it differs from those of this genus, which it most resembles, as J. n i- 

 gra, in the absence of a transverse bony ridge between the orbits. Another 

 feature of importance is the relation of the canine teeth of the lower jaw to the 

 upper. On one side this tooth is received into a notch, as in Crocodiles, on 

 the others it enters a pit of the maxillary bone, within the border of the 

 same, as in Alligators ! This remarkable combination may be abnormal even 

 in this species, but this cannot be now ascertained, as it rests at the present 

 time on a single specimen only. As its affinities are rather more alliga- 

 torial, I am disposed to anticipate that the dental arrangement of the latter 

 type will be most common. 



Perosuchus fdscus Cope. 



Char, specificus. — Nuchal plates in a cross row of six ; cervicals in four 

 cross-rows, all of four plates except the last of two. Dorsal plates six — in 

 a few eight in each transverse row. No posterior crest on arm or leg. Tail 

 short with remarkably low crest. Muzzle broad, flat, without any ridges ; 

 its width at the eighth tooth entering 1-4 in length from end of muzzle to 

 anterior margin of orbit. 



Description. — The specimen in the Museum of the Academy is young, 

 measuring only 2 feet 5 inches in length. Of this the skull measures to the 

 margin of the supra-occipital 2 in. 10 5 lin. ; and the tail from the vent 13 in. 

 1 line. From groin to heel 3 in. 2-5 lines, and the hind foot 2 in. 7-5 lines. 

 The muzzle is a broad ovate, the sides rather more convergent anteriorly 

 than in the Alligator mississippiensis. There is a thickening in front 

 of each orbit, and between them on the middle line another, which together 

 enclose two shallow concavities. Superciliary margins raised, the cranial 

 table quite flat. The margin of the quadrato-jugal bone projects strongly. 

 The scales of the limbs are all smooth and those of the dorsal region with 

 very low keels. The sides have four longitudinal rows of ovate scales sepa- 

 rated by scarcely defined smaller ones. The abdominal plates are longer 

 than broad, and are in twelve longitudinal rows. Dorsals in seventeen 

 transverse series from interscapular to crural region. The lateral crests of 

 the tail are only obtuse keels ; they unite on the thirteenth aunulus behind 

 the vent inclusive. Color above dark brown, almost black on the upper sur- 

 face of the head. The tail is paler, of a liglit olive brown. Lower surface 

 everywhere bright yellow, including the entire lower jaw and margin of the 

 upper. Eyelids and a band through ear yellow, the former with a black spot 

 above. 



Remarks. — This interesting addition to our knowledge of the Reptilia was 

 made by Schulte Buckow, of New York, while on a visit to the interior pan 

 of the course of the Magdelena River, in New Grenada. This naturalist 

 has also enriched our collections with other interesting vertebrata of that 

 region, both living and dead. 



1868.] 




204 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Sept. \st. 

 The President, Dr. Hays, in the Chair, 

 Twenty-two members present. 



Sept. Sth. 

 The President, Dr. Hays, in the Chair. 

 Twenty-eight members present. 



Sejit. 15th. 

 The President, Dr. Hays, in the Chair. 



Twenty-eight members present. 



The following papers were presented for publication : 



Extinct Mammalia of Dakota and Nebraska, including an account 

 of some allied forms from other localities, together with a synopsis of 

 the Mammalian Remains of North America. Illustrated by twenty- 

 eight plates. By Joseph Leidy, M. D. Preceded by an introduc- 

 tion on the Geology of the Tertiary Formations of Dakota and 

 Nebraska, accompanied by a Map. By F. V. Hayden, M. D. 



Notice of American Species of Ptychodus. By Joseph Leidy, 

 M. D. 



Synopsis of the Extinct Batrachia of North America. By Edw. 

 D. Cope. 



Dr. Leidy read a letter from Mr. B. Waterhouse Hawkins, pro- 

 posing to erect in the Museum, at his own expense, the fossil remains 

 of the Hadrosaurus to their natural relations in the figure of that 

 great Dinosaur, in accordance with Dr. Leidy's descriptions in his 

 Monograph of the Cretaceous Reptiles of the United States. 



On leave being granted, the following resolutions, offered by Dr. 

 J. L. LeConte, were adopted : 



That the Academy accept the proposition of Mr. B. Waterhouse 

 Hawkins, to erect in this Hall, at his own expense, a restoration of 

 the skeleton Hadrosaurus. 



That the thanks of the Academy be respectfully tendered to Mr. 

 Hawkins for his liberal offer, and that the Curators be instructed to 

 furnish to him every facility in the use of specimens in the Museum, 

 which the most liberal interpretration of the By-Laws will permit. 



Sept. 22d. 

 Dr. Bridges, in the Chair. 

 Twenty-four members present. 



Se2)t. 2dth. 

 The President, Dr. Hays, in the Chair. 

 Twenty-four members present. 



[Sept. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 205 



Dr. D. G. Brinton was elected a member. 



On favorable report of the Committee, the paper of Dr. Leidy, 

 presented Sept. 15th, entitled " Extinct Mammalia of Dakota and 

 Nebraska," etc., reported in favor of its publication in the Journal. 



On favorable report of the Committees, the following papers were 

 ordered to be printed : 



Notice of American Species of FTYCHODTJS. 



BY JOSEPH LEIDY, M. D. 



The Cestraciont genus of fishes Ptychodus, so far as known, is confined to 

 the Cretaceous Formations. Remains, consisting of teeth, I have had the 

 opportunity of inspecting from Ahxbama, Mississippi and Kansas, and 

 although reported to exist in the Cretaceous Formation of Delaware, I have 

 not met with them from that locality nor from the Green Sand, of correspond- 

 ing age, of New Jersey. The following list comprises all the specimens of 

 American Ptychodus teeth I have had the opportunity of examining. 



Ptychodus Mortoni. 



Agassiz, Poissons Fossiles III. (1833-43), 158, Tab. 25, figs. 1 — 3; copied in 

 figs. 773, 773a, of Dana's Manual of Geology. 



Palate bone of a fish ? Morton : Syn. Org. Rem. Cret. Group. (1834), pi. 

 xviii, figs. 1, 2. 



The teeth of Ptychodus Mortoni I have seen only from the cretaceous forma- 

 tion of Alabama and Mississippi. Morton, in the work above noticed, figures 

 a tooth, but does not mention the locality from which it was obtained. 



Agassiz, in his Poissons Fossiles, gives a good representation of a tooth of 

 this species, from the Green Sand of America, in three views, figs 1 — 3, Tab. 25. 



Dixon, in his Geology of Sussex, represents two small teeth, (figs. 6, 7, pi. 

 xxi), Avhich he refers to the same species. Though exhibiting some resem- 

 blance in character to the American teeth, I think a further comparison is 

 necessary to establish their specific identity. 



The teeth of Ptychodus Mortoni are well defined in character, and in com- 

 parison with teeth of well recognized European species are almost generic in 

 their peculiarity. Though exhibiting some varietj^, their likeness presents a 

 distinct specific uniformity. Their size of course varies greatly with age and 

 the relative position they occupied with one another in the mouth of the 

 fish. 



Viewed from above, the crown is reniform in outline, the long diameter being 

 transverse ; the incurvature posterior. The crown rises in the form of a cone 

 with a more or less obtuse summit. The sides of the crown slope to the base 

 and frequently more or less abrupt^ expand, laterally approaching the latter. 

 The back part is occupied by a wide triangular sinus for the reception of the 

 fore-part of the crown of the tooth which was situated in front of it when 

 the teeth were contained within the mouth. The border of the crown is thick 

 and rounded and dips beneath. At the sinus it is prominent. The summit of 

 the crown presents a prominent crucial ridge, more or less distinct in different 

 specimens. From the cross numerous ridges of about the same thickness 

 diverge upon the sides of the cone, branching in their course, multiplying and 

 becoming finer, and ultimately conjoining upon the base in a fine reticulation 

 extending to the borders of the crown. The coarser I'idges vary in their pro- 

 portionate length in different specimens. The reticulation of the base is most 

 extensive laterally, occupying usually half the breadth of the space between 

 the summit and border. It also occupies the sinus, and is least developed at 

 the fore-part of the crown. The width of the crowu approaches double the 



1868.] 




206 PEOCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



fore and aft measurement, and the height is usually little less than the latter. 

 The root partakes of the form of the outline of the base of the crown, but is 

 more square and is flat or transversely concave below. 



Twelve specimens of teeth of Ptychodus Mortoni, from the Cretaceous For- 

 mation of Alabama, belonging to the Yale College Museum, have been sub- 

 mitted to my examination by Mr. William M. Gabb. Among them occurs 

 the largest tooth of the species I have seen, and larger than any on record. 

 It is labelled as having been derived from Perry Co., Alabama. The fang 

 and parts of the lateral and back borders of the crown are broken away. In 

 the perfect condition the crown has measured a little over two inches in 

 transverse diameter, one inch and a quarter antero-posteriorly, and ten lines 

 in height. The crushing surface is porportionately less prominent at the 

 centre than in the smaller teeth attributed to the same species, and is more 

 uniformly convex, or less expanded laterally at the base. The borders of the 

 posterior sinus also are less abrupt or defined. The unworn summit presents 

 a crucial ridge, of which the lateral radii are most distinct and directed pos- 

 tero-laterally. From the crucial ridge, numerous ridges, equally prominent, 

 diverge, branch in their course and ultimately conjoin in a fine reticulation at 

 the base af the crown. This reticulation has the greatest breadth at the sides 

 of the crown and is least developed at the fore-part. 



Eleven teeth from Uniontown, Alabama, exhibit a gradation in size from less 

 than three-fourths that of the above described specimen down to one little 

 more than a fourth of its diameter. The specimens present a remarkable sim- 

 ilitude throughout. Some are proportionately wider fore and aft than others, 

 and the smallest are porportionately higher than the largest ones. The outline 

 of the base of the crown is reniform, with the relation of the longer and 

 shorter diameters varying. The largest specimen has the crown an inch and 

 a half wide, a little over three-fourths of an inch fore and aft, and about half 

 an inch in height. The sides of the crown expand at the base laterally ; the 

 fore-part forms nearly a uniform slope, and the back surface slopes to the 

 sinus, which forms a broad triangular depression. The fang is fourteen lines 

 wide, seven lines fore and aft, and three lines in depth. 



The crown of a median sized tooth of the series, unworn, measures scant 14 

 lines wide, 7^ fore and aft, and 65 high. The smallest specimen has the crown 

 7 lines wide. 4J fore and aft, and an equal height. Its base laterally appears 

 more abruptly expanded than in the others. Most of the specimens are unworn 

 and e.xhibit the characteristic ridges of the crown in a striking manner. In 

 three specimens the coarser ridges are resolved into the reticulation much 

 earlier or nearer the summit than in the others. In one specimen the crown 

 is smooth or totally devoid of ridges, presenting the same appearance repre- 

 sented in figs. 4, 5, pi. XXX, of Dixon's Geology of Sussex, and described as 

 " nascent or incomplete teeth of Ptychodus. 



Seven specimens of teeth in the Museum of the Academy, from Alabama, 

 exhibit the same characters expressed in the description of those above. They 

 all present an unmistakeable specific likeness, though varying in the propor- 

 tions of their diameter. The largest specimen has the croAvn 16 lines wide, 11 

 lines fore and aft, and 8 lines high. The root is an inch wide, 7 lines fore and 

 aft and nearly 3 lines thick. A second specimen, with the crown 16 lines wide 

 and 9 lines fore and aft, has been proportionately lower than the former. Its 

 summit is worn away, leaving an exposed circular disk of vaso-dentine 4 lines 

 in diameter. 



Two specimens in the Museum of the Academy, presented by Prof. Joseph 

 Jones, are from Green Co., Alabama. The larger is perfect and unworn. The 

 crown is scant 14 lines wide, by 7 lines fore and aft, and 5 lines high. The 

 root is 11^- lines wide, 4J fore and aft, and 2 lines thick. 



Two specimens in the Museum of the Academy, presented by Dr. Wm. Spill- 

 man, are from Columbus, Mississippi. They present the same character as the 

 Alabama specimens. The larger specimen has the crown 20 lines wide, 10 lines 



■ [Sept. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 207 



fore and aft, and has perhaps been about 8 lines high. The summit is worn ofiF, 

 leaving an exposed flat circular surface of vaso-dentine half an inch in diame- 

 ter. The root is 15 lines wide, 6 lines fore and aft, and three lines thick. The 

 smaller specimen consists of an unworn crown 11 J lines wide, 7 lines fore 

 and aft and 5^ lines high. 



Ptychodus occidentalis, n. s. 



The Museum of the Academy contains a specimen consisting of the crown 

 of a tooth of a species oi Ptychodus differing from any other previously known. 

 It was obtained by Dr. John L. LeConte, in association with other remains of 

 fishes, from an ash-colored rock of the Cretaceous series, a few miles east of 

 Fort Hays, Kansas. 



The tooth is remarkable, especially from the comparatively near approxima- 

 tion of its diameters, the width transversely and fore and aft and the height 

 approaching one another more nearly than in any other species. The fore- 

 part of the crown is somewhat injured and the root is broken away. The 

 transverse diameter of the crown at base is 14 lines ; the fore and aft diameter 

 has been about an inch ; and the height is also an inch. 



In shape the crown is a blunt cone with the sides sloping evenly to the base 

 and to the posterior sinus. The latter is a triangular concavity about two- 

 thirds of the breadth in height. 



The direction and arrangement of the ridges of the crown are much like as in 

 the European Ptychodus decurrens, but the principal ridges crossing the crown 

 transversely are finer and the intervals much narrower, indeed the space occu- 

 pied by a pair of ridges with their interval in /'. decurrens would accommodate 

 three ridges with a pair of intervals in P. occidentalis. Descending the sides of 

 the cone the ridges branch as in /'. Mortoni, and at the basal half of the crown 

 form a reticulation much as in P. decurrens. At the back of the summit of the 

 crown the principal ridges continue their transverse or parallel course until 

 near the upper part of the. sinus, into which as they descend thej- are resolved 

 into a fine reticulation. The fore-part of the crown is occupied by a reticula- 

 tion formed by the descent, convergence and division of the more anterior 

 principal ridges. 



From the description it will be observed that the tooth holds an interme- 

 diate position in anatomical character to those of Ptychodus Mortoni, and 

 P. decurrens. 



Three small teeth, found by Dr. Le Conte in association with the latter, re- 

 semble, in their proportions and in the proportionate size and arrangement of 

 the ridges of the crown, the teeth of P. decurrens, but perhaps may belong to 

 the same species as the large tooth above described. The larger of the three 

 specimens is perfect, but has the summit of its crown worn ott'. The crown 

 measures 7 lines transversely, 6 lines fore and aft, and has been from 4 to 5 

 lines high. The root is 6 lines wide, 4^ lines fore and aft, and 2\ lines thick. 

 Comparatively coarse ridges cross the crown transverselj^, curving forward 

 laterally and ending in a marginal reticulation. Branching ridges descend in 

 front from the foremost of the transverse ridges, and likewise end in a marginal 

 reticulation. The sinus is occupied by a finer reticulation joined by fine ridges 

 descending from the summit and sides of the crown. The smallest tooth, like- 

 wise perfect, has the crown 4^ lines wide, 3| lines fore and aft, and 2^ lines 

 high. 



Three additional specimens associated with the former ones, are the smallest 

 teeth of Ptychodus I have seen, but I suspect that they belong to the same 

 species. They are transversely ellipsoidal in outline at the base of the crown, 

 and this appears as a low cone elevated at the inner third and with a broad 

 expanding base. The sinus is situated at the inner posterior third. The sur- 

 face of the crown is crossed with transverse ridges which form a narrow retic- 

 ulation at the border. The largest of these small specimens is 3^ lines trans- 

 versely, 1| fore and aft, and | of a line high from the root. The smallest tooth 

 is 2\ lines wide, 1^- fore and aft, and ^ a line from the root. 



1868.] 




208 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Ptychodus polygyrus. 



Agassiz : Poissons Fossiles III, 156; Dixon: Geology of Sussex, 1850, 363. 

 Gibbes: Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci., 1849, 299, pi. 42, figs. 5, 6. 



Dr. Gibbes, in tlie work above noticed, figures two teetli, from the cretaceous 

 formation of Alabama, wliich he refers to Ptychodus polypfrm. Thej- clearly 

 bear a close lilieness to specimens of the European species of that name. 



A single specimen of a tooth, accompanying the Alabama specimens be- 

 longing to the Yale College collection, resembles the teeth of the European 

 Ptychodus polygyrus. The crown is nearly square or transversely oblong, with 

 the fore and back borders nearly straight, and the lateral borders convex. 

 The crushing surface is moderately convex and is crossed transverselj' by ten 

 coarse acute ridges, separated by similar intervals. The borders of the sur- 

 face, including the posterior sinus, are occupied by comparatively fine vermicu- 

 lar and interrupted ridges, appearing like granulations. The coarse ridges 

 are nearly straight, and at the end rather abruptly resolve themselves into the 

 finer vermicular ridges of the border. From European specimens of the teeth 

 of /'. polygyrus and P. lalissimus, this tooth appears especially to differ in the 

 proportionately greater degree of fineness of the bordering vermicular ridges 

 or granulations of the crown. Its measurements are as follows : 



Width of crown 13 lines; fore and aft 11 lines; height 5 J lines; width of 

 fang 8 lines ; fore and aft 6k lines ; thickness 3 lines. 



Of other species of Ptychodus, Agassiz mentions teeth of P. mammillarts, 

 found in the excavation of the Delaware canal, and preserved in the Museum 

 at Paris. (Pois. Fos. Ill, 151.) I have seen no specimens of that species 

 from an American locality. 



Synopsis of the Extinct BATRACHIA of North America. 

 BY EDWARD D. COPE, A.M. 



BATRACHIA. 



The vomer is double, and usually bears teeth in this class ; the premaxillary 

 is usually double ; Amphiumaand Spelerpes belli are exceptions. Teeth never 

 planted in deep alveoli. 



There are six orders, as follows : 



Trachystomata. 



Caudal vertebrre and frontal bones distinct. 

 Inferior pelvic elements not confluent. 



0. o. maxillaria, prefrontalia, palatina and pterygoidea wanting ; nasalia 

 present. 

 Ethmoid,* two lateral pieces, each forming part of palate. 

 Mandible toothless, condyloid. 

 No " postorbital and supertemporal bones." 

 First pair ceratohyals distinct. 



Proteida. 

 Caudal vertebrae and frorttal bones distinct. 

 Inferior pelvic elements not confluent. 



0. o. maxillaria, prefrontalla and nasalia wanting ; palatina and pterygoidea 

 present. 



Ethmoid,* a vertical plate on each side the cerebral lobes. 

 Mandible toothed, teeth pleurodont.f 



* Erroneously called orbitosphenoids by me, Jour. Acad. 1866 (on Anura). 



fThe statement made by Dr. Gray that the teeth of Neeturus are eanaled, as in venem- 

 ous serpents, V)y a channel entering at the base and issuing below the tip, appears to the 

 writer to be of doubtful accuracy. No other opening exists in the teeth of Neeturus m a- 



[Sept. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 209 



Ceratohyals, first pair connate. 



No postoibital and supertemporal bones. 



Urodela. 



Usual cranial bones present, but pterygoids reduced or wanting. 

 No '' postorbital or supertemporal bones." 

 Caudal vertebrte and frontal bones distinct. 

 Ethmoid a vertical plate on each side. 

 Mandible dentigerous, teeth pleurodont. 



Inferior pelvic elements horizontal, in contact, no osseous pubis ; ilium sus- 

 pended to a sacral rib. 



(Mostly no quadratojugal.) 



Gymnophidia. 



Usual cranial bones present and distinct, including frontals and pterygoids. 



Caudal vertebrae distinct. 



No " postorbital or supertemporal bones.''* 



Ethmoid an annulus surrounding cerebral lobes. 



Mandible dentigerous ; teeth anchylosed by their bases. f 



(A quadratojugal.) 



Stegocephali. 



Usual cranial elements distinct, including froti'tals and pterygoids, and add- 

 ing " postorbitals and supertemporals." 

 Caudal vertebrae ? 

 Ethmoid normal. 

 Inferior pelvic elements distinct. 



Mandible dentigerous; teeth with anchylosed bases, or 

 (A quadrato-jugal.) 



Andra. 



Frontal and parietal confluent, nasals wanting or rudimental ; other cranial 

 bones present. 



Postorbital, supratemporal and usually nasals wanting. 



Ethmoid an annulus (usually complete above) surrounding cerebral lobes. 



Caudal vertebra- represented by an elongate compound style. 



Inferior elements of the pelvis consolidated into a single vertical mass ; ilium 

 attached immediately to sacral vertebra. 



Quadratojugal. 



STEGOCEPHALI. 



Xenorhachia. 

 The vertebral centra not ossified ; ? the dentition pleurodont ; teeth simple; 

 ? no branchial hyal bones. ? Occipital condyles. 



c u 1 a t u s than the emargination at the base of the root occupied by the growing crown of 

 the successional tootli,as in other Batrachia. If the structure described by Dr. Gray exists, 

 it is in a species as yet unexamined by American zoologists. Professor Wiuchell, of Ann 

 Arbor, confirms my observation. 



In my Synopsis of higher groups of Batrachia (Journ. Acad Nat. Sci. 1866), I stated that 

 Amphiuma possesses minute scales. Gray, in 1850 (Catalogue Brit. Mus.), makes the same 

 statement, which Dumeril (1863. Catal. Mus. Paris) contradicts. I nmst accord witli Prof. 

 Dumenl, since a subsequent examination has convinced me that they do not exist. The 

 specimen in which the appearance of scalesi was presented was mislaid at the time of 

 writing, and I find it was due to numerous free portions of the true derm, which are con- 

 tinuous with the attached portions. 



* When the temporal fossa is overarched it is by expansion of the maxillary and quadrato- 

 jugal. (Stannius says "squama temporalis.") 



fThe teetli of Ctecilia are compressed with a trenchant posterior edge, which is crenate, 

 after the manner of Megalosaurus, Careharias, etc. Thus to the numerous genera of 

 Saurians and Selachians possessing this character, must be added a Batrachian. 



1868.] 




210 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



MiCROSAURIA. 



Vertebral centra ossified ; no branchial hyoids ; teeth simple or with slightly 

 inflected enamel, jileurodont. Occipital condyles. 



Ganooephala. 



Vertebral centra cartilaginous ; branchial hyoids present ; teeth with slightly 

 inflected enamel, anchylosed by their bases. No ossified occipital condyles. 



Labyrinthodontia vera. 



Vertebral centra osseous ; no branchial hyoids ; teeth with much inflected 

 enamel, anchylosed by their bases. Occipital condyles. 



Xenorhachia. 



This order I proposed for the reception of the genus Amphibamus Cope, in 

 1865. I proposed to regard, as one of its characters, the existence of opistho- 

 coelian vertebris. Such impressions were observed in the matrix in which the 

 fossil was preserved, as to induce a belief in the existence of such vertebra?, 

 and the existence of these in a well ossified condition, in the apparently nearly 

 allied genus Pelion Wyman, strengthened such belief. There were actually, 

 however, only osseous neural arches present, and I am now decidedly of the 

 opinion that the vertebral centra were either cartilaginous or annuliform, as in 

 Archegosaurus, 



. AMPHIBAMUS Cope. 



Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1865, 134. 



Amphibamus grandiceps Cope, Proc. Ac. N. Sci. Phila. 1865, p. 134. Palaeon- 

 tology 111. State Survey. Tab. 

 Carboniferous ; Lower Coal Measures, Morris Co., Illinois. 



MiCROSAURIA. 



This sub-order was established by Prof. Dawson, for small lizard-like verte- 

 brates from the Coal Measures, which he thought presented points of affinity 

 to, or should be under the Saurian reptiles, at the same time recognizing Ba- 

 trachian characteristics. 



After examining the evidence brought forward by Prof. Dawson, it appears 

 to the writer that the Saurian characteristics are analogical only, and not in- 

 dicative of true affinity, and that these creatures form, in fact, a series closely 

 resembling or parallel with what was probably an immature stage of the 

 Labyrinthodontia. They are in fact Labyrinthodonts, with simple or very 

 slightly inflected enamel of the teeth, and with tlie extent of the exostosis of 

 the cranial bones much reduced. This character has been much overrated by 

 some authors. In the Dendrerpeton obtusum Cope the grooving and pit- 

 ting exists only on the posterior parts of the cranium, and gradually disappears 

 anteriorly. In the Alligator mississippiensis the same is the case. 



The points in which they have been said to resemble the Lacertilia, are, 1st, 

 the dermal scales ; 2d, the parietal fontanelle; 3d, possession of ribs. All of 

 these features belong to the Labyrinthodontia ; the Xenorhachia also had 

 scales. On the other hand, the two occipital condyles, indicating the existence 

 of a parasphenoid bone, distinguishes it at once from all the Allantoid verte- 

 brata, and the form of the vertebras is very Batrachian. In the Lacertilian 

 families of Gecconidae and Hatteriidae only we have biconcave vertebra, but 

 the concavities are comparatively shallow, and the vertebrae less constricted 

 medially than in the Microsauria. Those of the latter are much like those of 

 Salamanders, according to Prof. Dawson's figures. 



The bones figured as pelvic ai'e unlike those of any Batrachia or Lacertilia 

 known to the writer. But until those of the Labyrinthodontia are discovered, 



[Sept. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 211 



we cannot assert that they differ from the latter. The long spatuliform ele- 

 ments figured as pelvic are, perhaps, scapula?, which are of not very different 

 type in the Trachystomata, Proteida, and the Ganocephala. 

 " The only species included in this tribe in which inflections of the enamel 

 have been described, is the Dendrerpeton acadianum, and here it is only 

 at the base. It is, however, not impossible that this genus should not be asso- 

 ciated with Hylerpeton, Oestocephalus, etc. The genera Urocordylus, Cera- 

 terpeton, Lepterpetou, Ophiderpeton and others recently described by Prof. 

 Huxley, also belong here. 



PELIOX Wyman. 



In litteris. Raniceps Wyman, Amer. Jour. Sci. Arts, 1858, 158. Not of Cuvier 

 (Pediculati). 



Pklion lyelhi Wyman. Raniceps lyellii Wyman, 1. c. 



This animal differs from the genus Amphihamus in the well-ossified verte- 

 bral axis ; no remains of a tail with elevated neural spines exist in the type 

 specimen, and no ventral scales are seen in it. 



Middle Coal Measures, Jefferson Co., Eastern Ohio. 



HYLONOMUS Dawson. 



Hylonomus lyelli] Dawson, loc. cit. viii, 167. 

 The Joggins. I?bva Scotia Coal Measures. 



Hylonomus aciedentatus Dawson, 1. c. viii, 258. 

 Coal Measures ; with the last. 



Hylonomus wymanii Dawson 1. c. viii, 270. 

 Coal Measures, Nova Scotia ; with the last. 



PARIOSTEGUS Cope. 



This genus is represented by a large part of the cranium of a Batrachian 

 from the triassic coal measures of Chatham Co., North Carolina. If not a Ba- 

 trachian, it coiild only belong to a ganoid fish, but though some of its charac- 

 ters are somewhat ichthyic, it lacks the following important elements of the 

 ganoid structure, i. e., free post- and suborbital bones ; postnareal cavities ; 

 branchiostegal, and arched branchihyal bones. On the other hand it has a 

 large preorbital, bounding the frontal and maxillary to the nares, and the inner 

 border of the orbit as in Stegocephalous Batrachia ; also a postorbital element 

 contributing to the formation of an extended supratemporal roof. 



Contrary to what has been found the case in most genera of Stegocepbali, 

 the maxillary appears to extend posteriorly to a free termination, as in modern 

 Salamanders, and the supra-temporal bone presents a very prominent, obtuse, 

 arched margin. This margin extends from the orbits on each side, and is in- 

 curved towards the posterior part of the cranium. There is therefore no 

 quadratojugal piece. 



Tlie maxillary and mandibular pieces are slender, flat bones, as in Menopoma ; 

 the form of the posterior or articular portion of the latter cannot be ascertained 

 from the specimen. The more or less exposed part of the median region of the 

 latter exhibits a succession of shallow transverse notches, enclosing thirteen 

 obtuse elevations. The former resemble rudimental lateral alveoke for minute 

 pleurodont teeth. A few other similar minute ribs, and perhaps a minute 

 curved cone without sculpture, are the only other indications of dentition. 



The bones of the upper surface of the cranium are most readily interpreted 

 by reference to those of Menopoma. A pair of narrow nasals, acuminate be- 

 hind, penetrate between the frontals as far posteriorly as the posterior margins 

 of the orbits. The suture between these is very distinct, and entirely straight. 

 The preorbitals extend to above the orbits, and there appear to cease with a trans- 

 ■ verse suture. Between these and the nasals a broad triangular element eaters 



1868.] 




212 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



on each side, not attaining the probable position of the nostrils. Each is di- 

 vided by a longitndiual groove, which is probably a suture, and which would 

 then divide the frontals from the parietals. The frontals would then divide 

 the parietals entirely, as they do in Menopoma for the anterior half of their 

 length. This would give the frontals a narrow form, acuminate in front, and 

 bounded behind by a regular coarse, zig-zag transverse suture. The cranium 

 behind this point is rugose, and the surface not well preserved, and it can only 

 be said that two irregular grooves converge to a point between the posterior 

 extremities of the frontals, like the boundaries of the supraoccipital. The 

 posterior boundary of the cranium with the condyles cannot be readily deter- 

 mined. When the postorbital roof bone is raised up, the meeting of two gular 

 dermal bones, as I interpret them, is seen. One of these is a plate directed 

 backwards and outwards, bearing minute radiating lines on its upper surface. 

 It meets a similar flat plate directed forwards and outwards, with similar lines 

 radiating to the circumference. The inner margins of these plates were not 

 seen. 



The orbits are remarkably small, and situated probably near the middle of 

 the longitudinal measurement of the cranium. The external nares are not 

 defined, but symmetrical depressions in the position they usually occupy in 

 Salamanders are distinct. 



The general form recalls Menopoma, particularly the necessarily small eyes. 

 A slender curved bone with a slightly dilated and truncate extremity, lying by 

 the cranium in connection with the mandible, is like a branchihyal of that 

 genus. Nevertheless it cannot be positively assigned to this genus, as numer- 

 ous scales of cycloid fishes are on the same block. 



Pariostegus myops Cope. 



The surfaces of the cranial bones are little sculptured ; there are small tu- 

 berculiform elevations on the parietals and more numerous ones on the pre- 

 orbitals. Thepostorbitals show the strongest markings of elongate pits which 

 radiate to their circumference, leaving a smooth obtuse border. The nasals 

 present a series of small warts at a little distance on each side of their com- 

 mon suture, and transverse to it. The surface of the maxillary is marked with 

 longitudional grooves and shallow pits. 



No suture separating maxillaries and premaxillaries can be traced with cer- 

 tainty, though the bones of the jaw are interrupted at the usual place of suture, 

 opposite the nostril. 



3Ieasurements. 



Lin. 



Length of specimen (including mandible) 18 



Width between outer convexities postorbitals 17 



" " inner borders orbits 11 



" of same without preorbitals 8 



" of nasals at middle 2-5 



" orbit 1-5 



Length of frontal nasal premaxillary 11. 



" " supposed branchihyal 12. 



The name is derived from the roof-like postorbitals with free lateral margin. 

 Locality. — Coal bed of the Keuper Triassic, Chatham Co., North Carolina. 

 The species was discovered by Prof. Jos. Leidy, who 4ianded it to me for de- 

 scription. It is in the Museum of the Academy of Nat. Sciences of this city. 



DENDRERPETON Owen. 



Journal Geol. Soc. London, 1853, p. 81. 



In the form of the cranium this genus differs from Brachydectes and Ophi- 

 derpeton, much as Menopoma does from Amphiuma. Two species appear to 

 have left their remains in the coal measures at Linton, Ohio. 



[Sept. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 213 



Dendrerpeton obtusum Cope. 



This species is known by a partially preserved cranium. The superior sur- 

 face is exposed, the outliues of the jaws and orbits are well preserved, with the 

 occipitt|||condj'les. The os-quadratum is directed obliquely backwards, and 

 the angle of the mandible extends to a line a little behind that of the occipital 

 condyles. The zygomatic arch exists in a position similar to that in which it 

 may be seen in a few genera of Anura, as Discoglossus and Pelobates. It ex- 

 tends downwards and forwards from the suprasquamosal to the maxillary 

 region, but whether it is homologically squamosal or malar, the specimen can- 

 not show. The postorbital is present as well, and with the last, and the su- 

 pratemporal forms the bon}' roof of the temporal fossa. A piece which may 

 be the pre- and postfrontals combined, borders the inner superior margin of 

 the orbit; it widens posteriorly, where it Jias contact with the parietal, etc., 

 and narrows in front. ISupra-occipitals form together a broad triangle on 

 the upper plaue of the cranium, of less extent than the adjoining supratemporal. 

 The latter elements are pitted, and towards their margins radiate grooved. 

 These sculpturings grow less on the margins of the supratemporal, and the 

 portions of the surface of the more auterior element remaining are so slightly 

 marked as to give the impression that the sculpturing in this species is much 

 less than in others of the genus. A few beaded ridges are all that remain on 

 a few of the parietals and postorbitals ; the maxillaries have a slightly 

 stronger sculpture seen in a few spots. 



The general form of skull is elongate behind, and much shortened in front of 

 the orbits. The orbits are thus altogether in front of a line equally dividing 

 the cranium transverselj', while in the D. acadianum Ow. they are in the 

 middle of the skull. The outline of the muzzle in one species is thin, broad, 

 rounded, as in the Menopoma allegheni en sis, while in the latter it is ovate 

 and produced. 



The parietal bones extend to opposite the posterior margins of the orbits, are 

 then gradually contracted and form an acuminate prolongation on each side 

 the wedge-shaped froutals. The prefrontals are thickened on each side the 

 front, behind the external nares. The sutures defining the frontals anteriorly, 

 the nasals, and the premaxillaries behind, cannot be made out. The median 

 longitudinal suture is a marked and zigzag one, and can be seen as far post- 

 eriorly as the anterior margin of the orbits. The external nostrils are large 

 and opposite the inner margin of the orbit on each side. This separation of 

 the nares is associated with a greater transverse extent of the premaxillaries 

 than in some of the genera. These have been set with numerous teeth, judg- 

 ing by their small impressions ; uo larger ones have left traces, and no 

 traces of any on the maxillaries. The teeth of the genera before described 

 are all much larger relatively, indicating still further the diversity between 

 them. 



A fragment of mandible remains, but without teeth or external surface. It 

 shows a large internal canal. 



Measure7ne/Us. 



Lines. 



Total length cranium 25-5 



Width cranium 3 lines behind orbits 24 



'' between orbits 7-5 



" " nares 5- 



" " occipital condyles 2-2 



" of supraoccipital bones 6 



" of right parietal fi 



Extent of premaxillaries 8-7 



Length orbit Ct 



From the Coal Measures at Linton, Columbiana Co., Ohio, (\yest Pennsylva- 

 nia Basin). Discovered by Dr. John S. Newberry. 



Another cranium accompanies the collection which belongs to a species dis- 



1868.] 




214 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



tinctfrom the last. The muzzle is not so broadly rounded, and the premax- 

 illary teeth are relatively much larger. The sculpture is more delicate, with 

 the ridges more acute. The orbits and nares are not defined. The maxillary is 

 well preserved for a length of an inch ; its teeth are smaller than the^remax- 

 illaries ; I count four in a line ; crown simple conic. External surface of 

 maxillary not very strongly sculptured. 



This species cannot be referred to its genus without further material. I 

 therefore do not name it, hoping to avoid the unworthy practice of some, who 

 g'we prospective names — to be applied to other peoples future discoveries, and 

 the like. 



Dendrerpeton acadianum Owen, Quart. Journ. Geol. Soc, x, 1853, 81. Daw- 

 son loc. cit. 

 Coal Measures : Joggins of Novrf Scotia. 



Dendrerpeton owenii Dawson, Canadian Naturalist and Geologist, viii,161. 

 Coal Measures : as the last. 



HYLERPETON Owen. 

 Hylerpeton dawsoni Owen, Journ. Geol. Soc. Lond., 1862, 241. Dawson, 

 Canadian Naturalist and Geologist, viii, 272. 

 Carboniferous Coal Measures. The Joggins, Nova Scotia. 



BRACHYDECTES Cope. 



This genus is indicated by two rami of a mandible, and a portion of a pre- 

 maxillary only. These, when compared with those of Oestocephalus and Dendrer- 

 peton from the same locality, and with others described by authors, are so 

 much stouter, i. e. shorter and more elevated, that they evidently pertained to 

 a genus not hitherto known. The genus further differs from Oestocephalus in 

 having the teeth of equal size to the posterior parts of the series, that is to the 

 base of the elevated coronoid process. The teeth are elongate cylindric cones, 

 with their acute tips turned a little posteriorly. The fractured ones display a 

 large pulp cavity. The three premaxillaries preserved are similar but without 

 curvature of the tips. They do not exhibit striae or any other sculpture. So 

 far as the remains known go, the genus is nearer Hylerpeton than any other. 

 The latter does not give any indication of the very elevated coronoid process 

 of Brachydectes, though the external portion of the dental bone in that region 

 being lost, little can be said about it. Prof. Owen's plate indicates a ramus 

 whose depth at the last tooth enters SJ times the total length. In our species 

 this depth enters about five times. There are at least nine teeth in the Nova 

 Scotian species ; seven in the present one, 



Brachydectes newberryi Cope. 



This species is represented by one nearly perfect ramus mandibuli, one den- 

 tary bone, and one premaxillary probably not complete. 



The dentary bone appears to have been attached by suture to the articular 

 and angular, as its free margin has very much the outline of that suture in 

 Amphiuma and lizards. The coronoid process would also seem to be a part 

 of the same bone as in Amphiuma and Menopoma, and not composed of a 

 coronoid bone as in lizards. It rises immediately behind the last tooth, and 

 displays no suture. 



The lower portion of the dentary is prolonged into an acute angle. This is 

 separated by a deeji and wide concavity from the superior posterior prolonga- 

 tion, which is obtuse and rises at once into the coronoid process. Teeth on 

 this dentary seven ; the same number is on the preserved ramus ; this number 

 I suspect to be complete or nearly so. The teeth terminate at the obvious 

 termination of each ramus, which is it is true slightly obscured. The teeth 

 are the longest of the Microsauria in relation to the depth of the ramus, equal- 

 ling the largest in Ophiderpeton. They are doubtless exposed, as are some of 



[Sept. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 215 



those of the last named genus, by the splitting away of the outer parapet of the 

 dentary bone. As no traces of alveoli have been thus rendered visible, I 

 suspect the dentition to have been pleurodont, as in existing Batrachia. 



No external surfiice of the mandible remains, but there are no impressions of 

 sculpture on the matrix. A" little external face of the premaxillary displays 

 none. 



Measurements. 



Lines. 



Preserved length of ramus (imperfect) 11. 



Depth at last tooth 2. 



Length of exposed tooth 1-7 



" dentary 75 



Depth at coronold 35 



" at first tooth 1-3 



SAUROPLEURA Cope. 



Neural and haemal elements of the caudal vertebrte elongate, distally dilated 

 and grooved, attached by contracted bases. Ventral aspect defended by a 

 series of oblique dermal ribs on each side, which meet anteriorly on the median 

 line. Limbs distinctly developed. Ribs long, well developed. Scales none. 



No dermal bones have been discovered, nor are any portions of the cranium 

 known. 



This genus is allied to the Urocordylus of Huxley, recently discovered in the 

 coal measures in Leinster, Ireland. It differs only in the presence of elongate 

 lizard-lilie ribs (whence the name), and in the absence of '• oat-shaped scales" 

 of the upper surfaces. 



It is a matter of much interest in American paleontology that this remark- 

 able type should be found to occur in our coal measures. It was first announced 

 by Dr. Newberry at the meeting of the American Association for the advance- 

 ment of Science for 1867 (see Proceedings, p. 144), as a supposed Urocordylus, 

 occurring with Ophiderpeton. He mentioned at the same time the discovery 

 of the ganoid Dinichthys Nevvb. 



The forms discovered by Dr. Newberry have an interesting relation to those 

 of Ireland, such as types of the present period frequently present. 



The genera may be thus parallelized ; where no representation exists, we 

 may look forward to a future discovery to supply the present want : 

 Ceraterpeton Huxl., represented by 



Urocordylus Huxl., " " Sauropleura Cope. 



Lepterpeton Huxl., " " 



Dolichosoma Huxl., " " Molgophis Cope. 



Ophiderpeton Huxl., " " Oestocephalus Cope. 



Brachydectes Cope. 



^ Herpetocephalus Huxl., ? ? Dendrerpeton Ow. 



Of the American genera, Sauropleura and Oestocephalus exhibit the peculiar 

 ventral dermal armature of Urocordylus and Ophiderpeton, while Molgophis 

 does not possess it, nor Dendrerpeton, if our species truly belongs there. 



The museum of Columbia College, New Vork, contains portions of two spe- 

 cies of Sauropleura, but both unfortunately represented by portions only of the 

 vertebral column. These are, though closely resembling the species described 

 by Prof. Huxley, sufficient to demonstrate marked generic distinction. This is 

 further established by the remains of the trunk of a third, and larger species, 

 whose relationships can be shown to lie within this genus. This individual 

 has been spread over a surface of the coal slate, exhibiting ventral armature, 

 dorsal region with ribs, and anteriof and posterior limbs. Of skull and caudal 

 vertebrae nothing remains. 



The dermal riblets are arranged as in Urocordylus, i. e., in parallel lines di- 

 rected obliquely forwards and continuous on the median line, lorming there a 



1868.] 




216 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



chevron, directed forwards. The strife are not so closely placed as in U. p e c- 

 ti n atu s , but are separated by grooves wider than themselves. 



The humerus, ulna, and radius are rather stout, and of a size relative to the 

 body, as in common types of existing Sauria ; the ulna and radius separate. 

 There is no carpus, but five well-developed digits have phalanges in tlie follow- 

 ing numbers, commencing on the inside : 3 — 4 — 5 — 6 — 5. The last phalange 

 of the second is obscured, and it is not positive that the number is as given ; 

 it is more probable than that it should have been 3. The outer toe has been 

 more slender than the others ; the distal phalanges of all the toes are short 

 conic, as in Salamanders. Thus this form differs much from Ampliibamus, 

 where the numbers are 3 — 3—4 — 5 — 4, showing a lower developement of 

 limbs. 



The ribs are long and curved, as in Reptiles, and judging by their distances 

 the vertebra are short ; the latter are not well defined, but there is no indica- 

 tion of prominent spines of any kind. 



The pelvic bones and portions of those of the hind limbs are present, but so 

 obscure and confused as not to be made out. Enough remains to show that 

 the hind limbs are considerably larger than the anterior. 



Sauropleura dictITata Cope. 



Tliis species had a length of body about equal to that of a fully-grown Cha- 

 mteleo vulgaris of the largest size, or of a half-grown Menopoma. Thirteen 

 ribs on one, and several on the other side, are preserved ; where they terminate, 

 probably at the pelvic region, some small or rudimental ribs project from the 

 two or three first caudals. Three ribs and their interspaces extend over five 

 lines. The humerus is broken, but its length can be clearly made out to be 

 seven lines ; it has no condyle, and is dilated at both extremities. The ulna 

 and radius are distinct, truncate, hollow, and dilated at the ends. Length of 

 ulna 5-1 lines, distal width 1-8 lines. Carpus not ossified. The fourth toe is 

 considerably longer than tlie others, the fifth is next, and reaches tlie basal 

 third of the antepenult phalange of the fourth ; the third is very little shorter ; 

 the first is not quite so long as the first two of the third. The bones of the 

 hind limb are not readily distinguished. Thej' are evidently much longer and 

 larger than the anterior; no part of a foot is preserved. 



This form is probably allied to Urocordylus. It has relatively much stronger 

 ribs in relation to the vertebrie than we have seen in that genus, and there is 

 no evidence of the existence of the peculiarly formed spines of the vertebriB 

 characterizing the latter. The limbs are relatively much stronger than in 

 Ophiderpeton, and it lacks the peculiar dermal armature of that genus. 



Sauropleura pectinata Cope. 



This species is represented by portions of the vertebral columns of four indi- 

 viduals. In two of these, vertebral centra are discoverable; in one quite defi- 

 nitely. They are slightly coiastricted medially, and without ridge or j)ro(^s. 



The neural and haemal spines of superior and inferior lines are similar, and 

 in the specimens undistinguishaljle. The dilated portions forin nearly equi- 

 lateral triangles, which stand on moderately short pedicels. They are weakly 

 ridged, and each ridge is prolonged into a narrow acute tooth, beyond the 

 margin, of which eleven may be counted on one of the best preserved. The 

 longitudinal striiB are terminated near the pedicel by two others, which cross 

 obliquely from each side, and, meeting, present an appearance similar to an 

 overlapping of each margin. The edges of the spines form a continuous line. 



As in the other species, there are no indications of other processes, nor of 

 dermal scales. 



The smallest of the specimens shows that in front of the region furnished 

 with the peculiar spines described, the body is furnished with a mass of bristle- 

 or hair-like scales. The grooved neural spines are slightly displaced anteri- 

 orly, and the bristle-like mass looks like a continuation of their striaj, and it is 

 not easy to find any line of demarkation between them. Tlie serrate spines are 



[SeiJt. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 217 



continued further forward on one side than the other. These linear scales 

 were arranged as in other genera, in lines which converge forwards to the me- 

 dian line. They are somewhat obscured in the specimen, but it can be de- 

 termined that they are continuous on the median Hue. Whether this is the 

 posterior or anterior portion of the body cannot positively be determined from 

 the specimen ; it is, however, most likely the posterior, for near the posterior 

 portion of the striate surfiice a weak j)air of limbs is given off on each side. On 

 the right, a moderately stout ? femur is followed by a broken tibia and fibula, 

 and by five slender, closely appressed metatarsals. The last are about two- 

 fifths as long as the space between them and the femur; beyond them a few 

 slender phalanges are moderately distinctly defined. The tibia is more distinct 

 on the le'ft, but no tarsus or phalanges ; some of the metatarsals are preserved 

 here also. Length of limb to end of metatarsals equal to five vertebraj in juxta- 

 position, measured along the edges of the neural spines. The limb has been 

 slender, especially the hand. 



The above specimen enables me to assign, as the ventral armature of this 

 species, a closely packed series of V-shaped grooves, which lie in connection 

 with an obscure vertebral column, on the block containing one of the typical 

 specimens of this species. Tliey are not continuous with any of the series ex- 

 hibited on other parts of the block ; some of these at least are the doublings of 

 the slender animal, and this ventral portion has been displaced. The grooves 

 are perhaps the impressions of hannapophysial rods, vastly more numerous, 

 however, than the number of vertebra; ; perhaps they are rather the dermal 

 armature. Huxley figures a portion of this as on the block with Urocordylus 

 wan desfordii , but does not refer it to its precise relation to the animal, 

 A few well-developed ribs are preserved with this portion, — the only ones I 

 can refer to this species. The vertebra' are partly enclosed in matrix, partly 

 impressions. The neural spines, though expanded antero-posteriorly, are less 

 elevated than in the caudal region, and have left no traces of their character- 

 istic ribs or serration. 



The number of spines in the type specimens is six in a half-inch ; in the 

 smallest, just described, ten in the same distance. The height of the spine in 

 the former is 1-15 lines. 



As the characters of this species are most determinable, I regard it as the 

 type of the genus Sauropleura. 



Sauropleura kemex Cope. 



This species is larger than the S. pectinata, and about equal to the Uro- 

 cordylus wandesfordii Huxl. The caudal spines differ from both in the 

 greater attenuation of the haemal series, and the presence of a basal lamina on 

 the neural. 



It is represented by a portion of the vertebral column three inches in length. 

 In this space may be counted twenty-four vertebrae Such of the latter whose 

 outlines are visible display centra, characteristic of the genus; their terminal 

 concavities conic, with apices meeting medially; zygapophyses present; and 

 their length a little greater than their depth. 



The characteristics of the species are the remarkable length and slenderness 

 of the fan-shaped neural and haemal spines, and the absence of an acute serra- 

 tion on their margins. In this species the spines have a larainiform expansion 

 at the base in their planes. In the other species here described these spines 

 are not only relatively broader and more fan-shaped, but they are acutely ser- 

 rate on the margin and constricted at the base. 



In S. r e m ex the dilated neural spines are a little more than three times as 

 long as they are distally wide, while the h;emal spines are a little narrower. 

 The neural spines stand about the middle of the centrum. The basal half ia 

 furnished with an anterior ala, which leaves the anterior margin rather ab- 

 ruptly and extends to the next spine in advance. It returns gradually to the 

 centrum and is separated from the articular face of the latter by a notch. A 



1868.] 15 




218 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



similar ala exists on the posterior margin of the neural spine, which extends 

 for a shorter distance above the base, and is narrower than the anterior. Each 

 spine presents a median groove on its surface, which extends halfway to the 

 base or further ; on each side of this are some three other grooves, 

 which extend but a short distance ; surface otherwise smooth. The ends of 

 the grooves slightly notch tlie truncated end of the spine. 



The hremal spines are on the posterior portions of the centra, and in con- 

 tact with the anterior part of the basis of those succeeding. They are without 

 the dilatations of the neural spines, and are directed rather more obliquely 

 backwards. They are similarly grooved, though without that so distinctly 

 median, seen -in the neural series. , 



Both neural and h;emal spines become larger towards the posterior part of 

 the vertebral column. There appear to be no zygapophyses nor diapophyses, 

 nor rudiments of ribs. The centra are rather stout, and somewhat constricted 

 medially. There are no traces of dermal armature of any kind. 



Measurements. 



Lines. 



Length of a posterior centrum 1"2 



Depth " " " 1- 



Length neural spine of adjoining vertebra 4-4 



Basal width 1'4 



Median width , "9 



Distal width 1-1 



Length of a more anterior neural spine 4-3 



Distal width " " " " 1-5 



" anterior haemal spine 4 



" width " " , 1-4 



From the Coal Measures, the Western Pennsylvania and Ohio Bituminous 

 Basin, at Linton, Columbiana Co., Ohio, near the Ohio River. Prof. J. S. 

 Newberry. 



CESTOCEPHALUS Cope. 



This genus is known from a single species as yet. As before remarked, it 

 represents in many respects the Ophiderpeton of Huxley, and has been alluded 

 to by Dr. Newberry as the same. It, however, differs markedly in the narrow 

 lanceolate form of the head, with probable accompanying peculiarities of de- 

 tail, and in the presence of limbs, which have not been found in the Irish 

 genus. The form of the head is somewhat nearer that of Lepterpeton Huxl., 

 but the limbs of the American genus have as yet been seen as one pair only, 

 and very small, while in Lepterpeton there are two pairs, which are large. 

 The general form of the body of Oestoccphalus is more snake-like. 



In more detail, we have an elongate lanceolate head with little or no sculp- 

 turing of the external surface of the bones. The angles of the mandibles are 

 much prolonged backwards as in Archegosaurus and frogs, and the well de- 

 veloped ribs commence but a short distance behind the head. The vertebrae 

 are slender, and furnished with well developed diapophyses. A pair of sym- 

 metrical bones, whose impressions are seen posterior to the occipital region, 

 look like ceratohyals or small scapulee, and one of them is continuous with 

 a second piece, which occupies the place of a humerus A third piece follows, 

 which is probably ulna ; no radius or manus is preserved. This then is a 

 rudimental fore limb, situate very close to the head. The skin has been occu- 

 pied by a great number of closely packed, curved, spine-shaped scales. They 

 have occupied the ventral integument passing from the median line of the belly 

 outwards and posteriorly, having acute tips which may have penetrated the 

 Bkin on each side ; whether such tegumentary spines protected the back can- 

 not now be determined. 



[Sept. 




NATURAL SCIEHCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 219 



Oestocephalus amphiuminus Cope. 



This species is represented by the imperfect crania and anterior portions of 

 the bodies of two individuals. They indicate an animal of the average size of 

 the Amphiuma means. 



The extremities of the vertebrae are deeply concave, but the centra are so 

 long as to prevent the concavities entering more than one-fifth of the latter, 

 each. The diapophyses are behind the middle, and are broad, curved back- 

 wards, and acuminate, as in Amphiuma. The centra have a prominent median 

 line below, with a longitudinal concavity on each side. Five of them a little 

 exceed an inch in length. Neural spines are nowhere visible. The humerus 

 is longer than the scapula and is considerably dilated distally ; the scapula 

 sliglitly dilated at its superior extremity. 



The dermal armature commences immediately behind the head, and forms a 

 band of 14 lines in width ; measuring across the spine-like scales, in a width 

 of a line, four cylinders may be counted. The external portions are carried 

 backwards, the interior nearly straight, those of the anterior more delicate 

 than the posterior. 



The head is wedge-shaped with regularly acuminate sides. The top of the 

 cranium is somewhat broken in the specimen ; the portions preserved are 

 amooth, and the longitudinal suture is distinct for a considerable distance. The 

 angle of the mandible is produced considerably behind the occiput and is 

 enlarged and rounded. The end of the muzzle is broken away, and the region 

 of the orbits so fractured as to render their precise location uncertain. The 

 superficial layer of the cranial bones is nowhere clearly visible, so that it can- 

 not be ascertained whether it is sculptured or not. The quadrate bone pro- 

 jects well posteriorly. Some fragments indicate small cylindric teeth, as in 

 Amphibamus, but they are not characteristic. 



Measurements. 



Lines. 



Length cranium without muzzle IT-S 



Width " posteriorly 11-5 



Length scapula ., 2-1 



" humerus 2-5 



" of sixth vertebra from skull 3 



Extent diapophyses 3-5 



Width centrum 15 



This species was discovered by Prof. Jno. S, Newberrj"-, at Linton, Eastern 

 Ohio, in the slate of the coal measures. , Mus. Columbia College. 



The characters of the genus are further shown by a part of another indi- 

 vidual in the same coal slate matrix. The cranium and anterior portion of the 

 vertebral column only are preserved, the latter so much injured as to render 

 the vertebral characters very obscure. As in the other, the bristle-like scales 

 extend along the dorsal region to near the cranium. The anterior two-fifths of the 

 ventral side shows a large number of small oval scale- like bodies, which 

 belonged undoubted]}- to the animal and were probably dermal scales. They 

 are, however, neither regular in form or position. Close behind the head two 

 or three long bones of the fore limbs have been exposed. They are slender, 

 and similar to those of the last specimen. 



The cranium, though without the muzzle, shows its long wedge- shape. The 

 maxillary bone cannot be distinguished, nor can the orbits be made out ; one 

 ramus mandibuli is pretty well preserved ; it shows no coronoid process. 

 Twenty-one teeth may be counted on a portion a little more than one-third its 

 length. The anterior eleven of these are abruptly longer and stouter than the 

 others. They are, except a few most anterior, in pairs, i. e. with a slight va- 

 cancy between every two. The larger ones were broken at the bases, exhibit 

 a moderate pulp cavity ; the smaller, a large one extending to near the tip. 

 Several, though not all of the larger teeth, display a shallow groove on the ex- 



1868.] 




220 PROCEEDINGS OF THE. ACADEMY OP 



ternal face to near the tip, which is probably owing to pressure, and a partial 

 crushing. Tlie points of the larger teeth are rather abruptly acute, and turned 

 abruptly backwards. A portion of tlieir increased length ('25) is to be attrib- 

 uted to the splitting oif of the external dentary margin, and the exposure of 

 the roots. No alveoli are shown, and the dentition is probably pleurodont, 

 with anchylosis of expanded base as in true Labyrinthodonts. 



MOLGOPHIS Cope. 



This genus is established on remains represented by three specimens, which 

 are two series of dorsal vertebra^ with ribs, and a series of caudals. One of 

 the dorsal series embraces sixteen vertebrae, the other fourteen ; the caudal 

 series, twenty-two. 



From its serpentine form this genus may be compared with the Dolichosoma 

 of Huxley, though a close relation does not exist between them. In the Irish 

 genus the series of caudal vertebrse is quite sliort, and the ribs are short and 

 but little curved. In Molgophis the tail has been like that of an elongate ser- 

 pent, and the ribs are as well developed as those of many reptiles. 



Though no limbs or arches can be certainly found, a rather quadrate, paral- 

 lelogrammic piece, about as long as the diameter of a vertebra, may be ^ 

 femur. This is, however, very doubtful. 



The characters of the genus are, a long serpentine body, without dermal 

 armature, so far as discoverable ; the vertebrfe large and broad, with very 

 prominent zygapophyses and moderate neural spine, those of the caudals with- 

 out narrowed bases (and grooved or serrate edges, most probably). ? Limbs 

 and cranium unknown. 



This genus differs from Urocordylus in i(s caudal vertebrae, and from Ophi- 

 derpeton in its dorsals; the latter, in their zygapophyses projecting laterally, 

 resemble those of Amphiuma. It differs from Sauropleura in the absence of 

 ventral dermal bands and in the longer body, without indication of limbs. The 

 size of the vertebrae would indicate a body of the size of a rattlesnake, (C. 

 h r r i d a), and therefore too large for the species named Brachydectes n e w- 

 b er r y i. 



The ribs are long, and though the head is not bifurcate, there appear to be 

 both tubercle and head on the dilated extremity. They show themselves, where 

 crushed, to have had a large median vacuity. 



Molgophis macrurus Cope. 



The neural arches, viewed from above, have a posterior V- shaped outline, 

 from the fact that the broad zygapophyses meet on the median line, and spread 

 out distally over the broad anterior ones adjoining. The latter appear to be 

 somewhat concave, and to border the former exteriorly as well as inferiorlj'. 

 The base of the neural spine extends to the posterior emargination, but not 

 quite to the anterior. The breadth of the dorsal vertebra above is equal from 

 the emargination behind to the anterior margin of the anterior zygapophyses. 



The caudal series must have been very long, as there is very little diminu- 

 tion in the size of the vertebrse throughout the series preserved. They present 

 much the same form as the dorsals, but are more contracted medially, and the 

 zygapophyses have a more transverse direction. There may indeed be a dia- 

 pophysial element beneath these, but tlie two cannot be distinguished if so. 

 They are connected by longitudinal impressions indicating the existence of the 

 tendinous bands in the longitudinal muscles seen in Amphiuma, or the osseous 

 spicules in the same situation in birds. The neural spines, indicated by their 

 narrow bases, occupied the lengths of the neural arch, and remind one of 

 Amphiuma. 



The ribs are long for a Batrachian, but shorter than in a reptile. They are 

 well curved, chiefly near the proximal extremity. The longest I can find, 

 measured by a chord, equals two vertebrai and two-fifths. Three vertebrae 



[Sept. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 221 



measured along the median line above equal eleven lines ; one of these is 3-6 

 lines in width above ; width of a (?) posterior caudal 3 1. ^ 



This animal has been, like Amphiuma, a snake-like Batrachian, out probably 

 of even more elongate form. How near its affinities to this genus may be, 

 cannot be ascertained, owing to want of important parts of the skeleton, but 

 it differs in the important feature of the large, well developed ribs. 



LABYRINTHODONTIA. 



DITCYOCEPHALUS Leidy. 



DiCTYocEPHALUS ELEGANS Leidv, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., 1856, 256. Emmons 

 'Geology North Amer., p. 59." Tab. 31. 

 Triassic Coal Measures, Chatham Co., N. Carolina. 



CENTEMODON Lea. 



Centemodon stTLCATtrs Lea, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., Phila., 1856, 18. 

 Triassic Shales near Phoenixville, Chester Co., Penn. 



BAPHETES Owen. 



Baphetes planiceps Owen, Quart. Journ. Geol. Soc. Lond. x, 1853, (xi, notes). 

 Carboniferous Coal Measures of the Joggins, Nova Scotia. 



EUPELOR Cope. 



Gen. nov. Char. Teeth subcylindric, with large pulp cavity at the basis only ; 

 external surface without grooves ; dentine divided by numerous flat vertical 

 lamina; of a dense substance, probably enamel, which radiate from very near the 

 pulp cavity to the external enamel layer. 



The species on which this genus depends was originally described by the 

 writer as a Mastodonsaurus. The latter genus, however, exhibits external 

 grooves where the inflections of enamel enter and separate the dentine. These 

 inflections, as is well known •from the figures and descriptions of Professor 

 Owen, are more or less convoluted, some of them very highly so. The laminae 

 of the teeth of the Eupelor cannot be looked upon as inflections of enamel, 

 but rather as branches. They are exceedingly thin, and our sections do not 

 demonstrate them to be double. If they are double they are very much more 

 atten\iated than the external enamel stratum. They may be distinguished in a 

 section of the wall of the pulp cavity at the base of the root as well as else- 

 where. 



Eppelor dcrus Cope, Mastodonsaurus durtts Cope. Proceed. Acad. Nat. Sci., 

 Phila., 1866, 249. 

 From the Triassic Red Sand Stone near Phoenixville, Chester Co., Penn. 



On AGAFHELTJS, a genus of toothless Cetacea. 



BY EDW. D. COPE. 



During the autumn of 1866 a whale was cast ashore on the Long 

 Beach, Ocean Co., N. J., opposite Westecunk, on the other side of Little Egg 

 Harbor, near the residence of Wra. A. Crane. A recent visit to the spot fur- 

 nished me with the means of determining the species to which this monster of 

 the deep belonged, although not with the completeness desirable, as the tide' 

 had a short time previously taken off" the most bulky part of the carcass. Thus 

 the cranium, cervical and dorsal vertebrae, with the first ribs, the most import- 

 ant portions for its identification, were lost. There were pt'eserved, however, 

 the mandibular arch, ear-bone, one scapula and both fins, numerous ribs, many 



1868.] 




222 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



lumbar and caudal vertebrae, with the baleen from one side of the maxilla. 

 These portions, with a few prominent points dependent on the observations of 

 Wm. A. Crane, serve to indicate a species not only new to our fauna, but new 

 to modern science. The evidence of my informant, as that of an old and ex- 

 perienced coaster and waterman, and one familiar with the appearance of our 

 cetaceans, confirmed by his sons and by the specimens preserved, so far as. 

 they went, I consider reliable. That the species should have remained unde- 

 scribed until the present time will not appear surprising to those who read 

 carefully Gray's recently issued " Catalogue of Cetaceans," or Eschricht and 

 Reinhardt " Ora Nordhvalen," Copenhagen, 1861. 



The scapula preserved is low and elongate, with well-developed acromion 

 and coracoid process. It is evidently of the type of Balaenoptera and PhysaluS"; 

 the ulna and radius relatively less elongate than in Sibbaldius laticeps 

 and b o r e al i s , being 1-5 as long as the humerus, thus resembling Physalus. 

 The four fingers, with the second much the longest, form a fin of the type of 

 these genera. The ear-bone is much more compressed than in Physalus an- 

 t i q u o r u m or Sibbaldius laticeps. The mandibular ramus is rather 

 massive, moderately curved, and with a more elevated coronoid process than in 

 any whale that I have seen. The greatest peculiarity is in the form of the lum- 

 bar and anterior caudal vertebrae ; they are of a much more elongate form than 

 any I have seen or found figured, excepting those of the BaUenoptera r o s - 

 trata (as figured by Gaimard in Voyage de la Recherche), which, however, 

 are relatively shorter. Those of the present species are of greater length than 

 transverse diameter, the lumbars most elongate ; all furnished witb an acute 

 hypapophysial keel and concave sides, and entirely transverse diapophyses. 

 This peculiarity is consistent with the account of my informant, who stated the 

 animal to have been of an unusually elongate and slender form. When it came 

 ashore it had perhaps been dead ten days ; the flukes and muscular region as 

 far as the third caudal vertebra had been devoured, probably by sharks and 

 killers, and the abdominal region much lacerated ; the edge of a fin preserved 

 was slit by the teeth of some carnivorous enemy. The measurement from the 

 end of the muzzle to the end of the third caudal was 35 feet, which may be re- 

 duced to 33 feet axial. Up to this point the dorSal line was, according to my 

 informant, entirely smooth, without knob or fin, or scar of one ; hence I sup- 

 pose the fin (if present) to have been situated as in Sibbaldius, &c., at the pos- 

 terior fourth of the length, and not as in Balaenoptera, on the posterior third. 

 It may then be safely assumed, bearing in mind the form of the vertebrc-e, that 

 ten feet of the whale's length had been removed, making in all 43 feet. That the 

 species attains over 50 feet is probable, as the present individual was quite young, 

 the epiphyses separating from the vertebr;e with the greatest ease. The slender 

 form of the animal is corroborated by the slenderness and slight curvature of 

 the ribs, one attached beneath the scapula, probably the second, being nar- 

 rower than the corresponding ones in Sibbaldius. I therefore think it most 

 probable that in this form the anterior ribs are single-headed. 



The baleen is peculiar; throughout the length of the maxillary bone it no- 

 where exceeded one foot in length, and the width of the band, or length of the 

 base of each plate, four inches. It is of a creamy-white ; the fringe very coarse, 

 white, and resembling hogs' bristles. 



The proportions in most respects present a contrast to those of Physalus 

 species, and Sibbaldius species. While the cranium and fin of the Physalus 

 antiquorura are of about equal length, the latter is four-sevenths the for- 

 mer in the present species. In the Physalus the cranium enters the length 4-7 

 times ; in Sibbaldius laticeps 4 06, and in the present species 6-6 times ; in 

 Balaenoptera rostrata 4 5 times. 



In general features this Cetacean seems to be an intermediate form of the 

 toothless whales ; and an additional feature, which depends on the observation 

 of my friend W. Crane, and in which I cannot conceive it possible that he 

 should be mistaken, indicates still more conclusively that it pertains to a genus 



[Sept. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 223 



not before characterized. The whale was first driven on shore on its back, and 

 the gular and thoracic regions were seen to be entirely without ridges or plicae 

 of any kind, but as smooth as any other part of the body, or as the throat of a 

 right whale, Balaena cisarctica Cope, which is not uncommon on the same 

 coast. 



This my informant told me was the species known among the whalers as the 

 "Scrag Whale." Though this name is indefinite when applied by whalers of 

 different nationalities, it is probably used with accuracy by those accustomed 

 to any particular region. At any rate I have little doubt that this is the spe- 

 cies called by the same name by Dudley, who in 1725 wrote an account of the 

 whales known by the whalers of the coasts of New England. He says it is 

 near the right whale (B. c i s a r c t i c a) in figure also; " is near akin to the 

 fin-back, but instead of a fin upon its back, the ridge of the after part of its 

 back is scragged with half a dozen knobs or knuckles. He is nearest the right 

 whale in figure and quantity of oil. His bone is white, but won't split." This 

 is published, with an account of the other species known, in the 33d volume 

 of the Philosophical Transactions. He mentions particularly the fin-back and 

 hump-back whales, describing the deep folds of the chin, throat and sides of 

 those genera. There can be little doubt that his " scrag whale " had a smooth 

 throat like the Balsenaj, and not a plaited one like the Baltenopteras and their 

 allies. By the preceding account it has been shown that the species has but 

 four slender fingers at the carpus; hence it is obviously the type of genus in- 

 termediate between Bal*na and Megaptera, not hitherto recognized, — furnished, 

 however, with the scapula of Bala^noptera. 



Captain Atwood, a resident of a part of the peninsula of Cape Cod, Mass., 

 who is a good observer of the life of the ocean, thus writes of the scrag whale 

 in J. A. Allen's Catalogue of the Mammals of Massachusetts, in the Proc. Bos- 

 ton N. H. Soc. for 1868: 



" Scragg. — A species of whale known by this name, and nearly allied, if not 

 identical with the right whale, is sometimes taken here. It is the opinion of 

 many of our whalemen that they are not a distinct species, but are the young 

 right whale that lost its mother while very young, and has grown up without 

 parental care, which has caused a slight modification. The most prominent 

 feature is on its dorsal ridge ; near the tail there are a number of small pro- 

 jections or bunches, having some resemblance to the teeth of a saw. It has no 

 dorsal fin or hump on its back." 



Additional evidence of the existence of this genus has been furnished by the 

 Smithsonian Institution. In accordance with recommendations and directions 

 furnished by the writer, VVm. H. Dall, the enterprising director of the West 

 r Coast Scientific Exploring Expedition, originally commanded by Dr. Kennicott, 

 sent to the Institution drawings and descriptive notes of the grey whale of the 

 coasts of Upper and Lower California. The writer has also examined an al- 

 most complete set of whalebone, with some other portions of the same species, 

 in the museum of the Jlssex Institute, at Salem, Mass. The baleen is similar 

 in character to that of The present species, but presents specific differences. 

 The notes of Capt. Dall indicate a long-finned, smooth-throated whale, wiih a 

 flat-pointed head like a fin-back, and no dorsal fin, but a series of knobs on the 

 posterior region of the back. That it in all respects conforms to the generic 

 type of the Atlantic species, can be determined from the description which 

 follows. 



The Atlantic species was named from Dudley's description by the com- 

 piler, Erxleben, without his adding to our knowledge of it, Bahena g i bbo s a. I 

 will follow Dr. Gray in adopting this name. The latter author, in his excel- 

 lent Catalogue of Seals and Whales in Brit. Mus., refers it, on the basis of the 

 same description, to Balaena, with doubt. 



Genus AGAPHELUS Cope. 

 Fingers four, elongate. Cervical vertebrae ? Lumbar and anterior caudal 



1868.] 




224 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



vertebrae longer than their greatest diameter. Dorsal fin wanting. Gularand 

 pectoral region without folds. Scapula with well developed acromion and 

 coracoid. Baleen narrow, short. 



Agaphelus gibbosus Cope. 



Scrag Whale, Dudley, Philos. Trans, xxxiii., 250, and of The Whalers. 

 jBalana ffibbosa ^Tx\ehen, Systema Mammalium 610 (from Dudley), and after 

 him of Gmelin, Bonnatere, Lacep^de, Virey, Gerard, Desmarest & Fischer. 

 Gray, Catal. Brit. Mus. 1850, p. 18, and 18t5G, p. 90. 

 Agaphelus yihbosus Cope, Proc. Ac. N. Sci. Phila., 1868, 159. 

 Balxnoptera rostrata Cope, Proc. Ac. Nat. Sci., Phila., 1867, 147. 



Ft. In. 



Total length (estimated) of young 43 



Length to third caudal vertebra 33 



Length of cranium (estimated) 6 10 



" mandibular ramus (in curve) 6 



" pectoral limb 4 



Width of " " 15 



Length of humerus 11-5 



" radius and ulna 17 



Posterior margin of scapula 14 



Length of coracoid from glenoid cavity 3-3 



" glenoid cavity , 6-3 



Mandible, length from condyle to coronoid 13-5 



" depth at coronoid 85 



" " 2-5 feet from coronoid ^ 4-6 



The form of the mandibular ramus is peculiar, and more like that of the 

 Bala?noptera rostrata than anj^ other. It is triangular in section, having 

 an inferior angulated ridge, and a broad, slightly convex, superior face, instead 

 of their usual ridge. Such a ridge leaves the coronoid process, but soon turns 

 inwards to form the inner outline. Width of the superior face 3-5 inches. 

 The coronoid process is quite elevated, and turned outwards. In the fresh 

 animal the lower lip included the upper all round. The laminae of whalebone 

 are jilaced on a base having a sigmoid flexure. Greatest depth of the gum 1 

 in. 3 lines. Within each principal lamina are two supplementary laminie, the 

 intermediate being the narrower, the inner triangular, its intermediate bristles 

 arising from the gum. The bristles of the supplementary plates are longer 

 and finer than those of the outer; in the latter, three series of bristles are en- 

 closed between very thin enamel plates. All the laminae are thin, five in an inch, 

 and split transversely straight; white cream- colored, with a purplish shade near the 

 centre of the base. The ulna is slender, but furnished with a prominent round- 

 ed and flattened olecranon, which is prolonged into a thin cartilaginous plate, 

 formed like the diapophysis of a vertebra, and in the plane of the ulna ; this 

 structure appears to have been ossified in the SibbaMius borealis Fisch., 

 as figured by Dubar In the Agaphelus gib b os u "it occasions an abrupt 

 angulation near the basal third of the inner margin of the fin. In the scapula, 

 the coracoid is in its plane, but the larger acromion diverges outwards. 



The anterior caudal vertebrt« are more elongate than the lumbosacral, less 

 depressed, and with the centra in every way larger. All are sharply keeled 

 on the median line below, with a concave face between the keel and the base 

 of the diapophysis. The caudal and lumbosacral diapophyses are obspatulate, 

 the anterior becoming narrower. The neural spines of the lumbar vertebrae 

 are much elevated, concave above both before and behind, the zygapophysis 

 measuring a point considerably below the middle. 



In. 



Third (?) caudal (not perforate) length centrum 7-3 



depth 6 



width 6-5 



[Sept. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 225 



height neural spine 9'5 



zygapophysis 4-3 



length diapophysis (from front base) 3 3 



Lumbosacral 1; length centrum V'S 



depth 5-3 



width 6'3 



height neural canal 2-5 



width 1-5 



* height neural spine 15-3 



zygapophyses 5-5 



length diapophysis 7'5 



greatest width do 5-3 



Lumbosacral 2 (more anterior) length centrum 6-3 



Lumbosacral 3 (anterior) height centrum 4-3 



width " ... 6 



length diapophysis 7-7 



The ear bone is much compressed, with an inferior carina, towards which 

 the lip of dense bone is suddenly decurved. The longitudinal opening is much 

 contracted, especially anteriorly, where the bone is pinched up into a keel, 

 and there is no abrupt concavity of the inner lip at that point. External sur- 

 face not very rugose. Total length 3 in. 2-5 lines. 



The owner of the whale tried out about one-fourth of the blubber, and pro- 

 cured sixty-five gallons of oil, which would give about four hundred gallons 

 for the whole ; the thickness of the adipose layer would not average 4 inches, 

 the greatest thickness was 5 inches. 



This species was black above and white below, the sides lead-colored, with 

 longitudinal shades of the darker color; fins, basal half white, terminal 

 black. 



Agaphelus glaucds Cope, sp. nor. 



The points in which this species differs from those of the genus Balaena, 

 previously known, are numerous, and will no doubt be increased on a further 

 knowledge of the animal. The head, between one-fourth and one-fifth of the 

 total length, allies it to the shorter headed species. From the B. a u s t r a- 

 11 s, the number of dorsal vertebrae, and the color and shortness of the baleen, 

 distinguish it, and no doubt other features will be brought out when we are 

 acquainted with the Cape species. The dorsal serration is not known to 

 occur in any species of the genus Bahena, though said to be characteristic of 

 the A. gibb osu s, whose characters I have just given, livo Bahtnit have 

 been described as inhabiting the north Pacific Ocean, Balaena sieboldii 

 Graj',* and Balaena cullamach L'hamisso.f Both have been established 

 on figures carved by the natives of the Japanese and Aleutian Islands respec- 

 tively, the former under the supervision of a naturalist, the traveller Siebold. 

 The carving of the B. cullamach, judging from the figure given by Chamis- 

 so, can but doubtfully represent any species, but which, if it exist, will rest 

 on the following diagnosis of its describer: " Rictu amplo forma litters Scur- 

 vato, elasraiis maximis atrocorruleis, spiraculis flexuosis in medio capite, 

 tuberculo in apice rostri (ex imagine) pectore pinnisque pectoralibus albis 

 dorso gibboso sexpinuato.'' 



These are, however, true Baleenae. A species of Agaphelus exists in the 

 Kamlschatkan Seas, according to Pallas, Avho, however, derives his informa- 

 tion solely from wooden models made by Aleutian Islanders. This is not 

 sufficient basis for an introduction to the scientific system, yet Pallas indulges 

 in applying to it the name Baliena agamachschik. The pectoral limb ot this 

 species is said, however, to be white, with the under side of the flukes, charac- 



* Catalogue Cetaceans, 1865, 9G, Fauna Japonica, Temmiuck & Schlegel, t. 28, 29. 

 fNova Acta Acad. Caes. xii., p. 251, Tab. 



1868.] 




226 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



ters not found in the A. gl a u cus Dr. Gray has already (Catal. Brit. Mus.) 

 indicated that this, if reliable, indicates a genus unknown to him. 



The Agaphelus glaucus is the gray whale of the coasts of California. 

 Two specimens have been examined by my friend, Wm. H. Dall, of the Scien- 

 tific staff of the U. S. Russian American Telegraph Expedition, one of them 

 near Monterey, and descriptions as complete as the state of the specimens would 

 allow, were made. These, which were sent to the Smithsonian Institu- 

 tion, and placed in my hands by Prof. Baird, are quite sufficient to indicate a 

 whale of a species hitherto unnoticed, and to render certain its futuKe identifi- 

 cation. 



Specimen No. 1, a skeleton nearly complete. 



Ft. 



Length of cranium 10 



Of dorsal vertebrte , 12 



Lumbar and caudal (except of the fluke) 26 



? Vertebrae of fluke ? 3 



Total 51 



Dorsal vertebrfe and ribs, thirteen ; lumbar and caudal (those in the fluke 

 cut off with it), 28. Scapula, breadth and height not very different, with a 

 short, hroad coracoid process; its heaid opposite first rib. Apparently only 

 four fingers, of which the second is the longest. 145 laminae of baleen on 

 each side, the longest eighteen inches long; color light yellow. 



Specimen No. 2, killed by the " killers," (orca) ; skeleton still concealed by 

 mass of muscle, etc. 



External measurements. 



Ft. 



Flukes to anus 14 J 



Anus to sulcus penis 2 



Length of sulcus IJ 



Latter to plane of flippers 15 



Plane of flippers to end of mandible 15 



Total 48 



The lower jaw is four inches longer than the upper ; the blow-holes are 

 entirely concealed by four dermal plicae, which accounts for the small misty 

 spout peculiar to the species. 



Ft. In, 



Length of flipperflnd shoulder 6 



" mouth 10 



" exterior canthus of mouth 1 6 



" from chin to eye 10 4 



" from eye to margin of canthus .t. 6 



Width of caudal flukes 8 9 



Width of mouth at canthus 4 



From chin to blow-holes 4 9 



Longest baleen 14 



Head of humerus opposite third rib ; anterior angle of scapula just anterior 

 to .first rib. On the vertebral line, for fourteen feet from the caudal flukes, is 

 a series of 18 ridges, like the teeth of a saw, which are altogether dermalin 

 their character. Blubber 4 — 8 inches thick, thickest near the jaws and on the 

 back near the tail ; yield of oil 35 bbls. Epidermis 1 inch thick, carium -75, 

 with numerous pores. Blow-holes 2 — 4 inches apart. On each side of sulcus 

 penis a mammary sulcus a few inches shorter. 



Color above and below, black, with a gray bloom like a plum. This dis- 

 tinguishes this species from the known Bala^nae of the Pacific, which are more 

 or less white on the belly and fin. 



[Sept. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 227 



Specimen No. 3. A full set of baleen of one side the maxillary is in the Mus. 

 Essex Institute, Salem, Mass. A portion of this, kindly lent me,*exhibits the 

 following characters : Compared with that of the A. g i b b o s u s, it is longer 

 and has narrower basis. The plates moderately and simply concave, while 

 those of the latter are sigmoidal, most curved near the outer margin, in cross 

 section. The bristles of the California species are very coarse, varying from 

 one to three series between the enamel plates. The bristles of the A. g i b b o- 

 sus much finer, three series together. Length of the latter 8-5 inches, 

 width at base 4-4 inches. In the Agaphelus g 1 a u c u s Cope, 22 in. 

 in length, width at base 6 in. In the former nearly U in an inch, in the latter 

 2^. The baleen of the A. g i b b o s u s belonged to the specimen above de- 

 scribed. 



Two rough outlines accompany Capt. Dall s notes. Both represent the pec- 

 toral fin as rather elongate, not pointed, but rather broad at the extremity. 

 A third sketch represents the inferior view, and in it we see two lines for grooves, 

 one on ea«h side the median gular line. This feature, if existing, is interest- 

 ing, as indicating a tendency to the plicte of the fin back whales. 



This species has usually one calf at a birth, but one was recently taken at 

 San Diego with two fcEtuses. Penis 27 in. long, smooth, coarsely papillose, 

 slightly bifid at tip, where the urethra is about the size of a goose quill. 

 (Dall's m. s.) 



Oct. eth. 



The President, Dr. Hays, in the Chair. 



Thirty-five members present. 



The following paper was presented for publication : 



Notice of some American Leeches. By Joseph Leidy, M. D. * 



Oct. ISth. 



Mr. Cassin, Vice-President, in the Chair. 



Thirty-four members present. 



The following papers were presented for publication : 

 Notice of some Remains of Extinct Vertebrata. By Joseph 

 Leidy, M. D. 



On the Origin of Genera. By Edward D. Cope. 

 On some Cretaceous Reptilia. By Edward D. Cope. 

 On variations in Taxodium. By- Thomas Meehan. 



Oct. 20th. 

 The President, Dr. Hays, in the Chair. 

 Thirty-six members present. 



Dr. F. A. Genth made some observations on the occurrence of cupriferous 

 ores in Texas. 



Dr. A. 11. Roessler, Geologist at the U. S. General Land Office at Washington, 

 had sent him for examination a specimen from Weatherford, Archer Co., Texas. 

 It was a piece of copperglance, containing 55-44 per cent, of copper, pseudo- 

 morphous after wood or a vegetable substance. It resembled so mucli similar 

 pseudomorphs found in the Permian formation at Fraukenberg in Hesse, and 



1868.] 




228 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



elsewhere in Europe, that he pointeii out the probability of its occurring also in 

 the Permian formation, and requested Dr. Roessler to obtain fuller details with 

 reference to its occurrence. A few days ago Dr. Roessler received an answer 

 to his inquiries from the General Ltand Office agent in Texas, with more speci- 

 mens, and the following report, which he sent to me : 



"After traversing tlie cretaceous and carboniferous series northward of 

 Weatherford, Archer Co., Texas, 1 was agreeably surprised by a grand pano- 

 rama of the Permian formation. This system is extensively developed in Russia 

 between the Oural Mountains and the River Volga, in the north of England, 

 and in Germany, where it is mined for its treasures of copper, silver, nickel and 

 cobalt ores. It has not heretofore been known to exist in this State, or it had 

 been mistaken for the Triassic system, which is overlying the former to the 

 south-east. Its hills, which have been traced throughout Archer and Wichita 

 Counties, resemble in shape the copper-bearing or gossan-crested upheavals in 

 Ducktown, Tenn., but they are of a different age and composition. They are 

 nearly barren, and, towering above the most beautiful mesquit prairies fringed 

 by the finely-timbered bottoms of the tributaries of Red River, are exceedingly 

 picturesque. The members of the Wichita System, as far as open to ocular 

 inspection by out-crops or cross-cuts, making allowance for climatic differ- 

 ences, correspond closely with the lower strata, discovered at Perm and Mans- 

 feld, but its mineral resources are evidently more promising. Such numerous 

 veins of copper ore have been traced over the summits and sides of the hills, 

 that hardly a hundred and sixty acre tract could be found without ore on the 

 surface. The ore crops out, as, for instance, on the Isbell Douglass Ball, in 

 such quantity and quality that the mere collection of it, without mining, would 

 prove remunerative. It is supposed that those veins are cotemporaneous with 

 injections at different ages of quartz, trap and porphyry. The vein lodes are 

 parallel with the strata, but there is sufficient evidence that they partake of the 

 nature of true veins. Cupriferous and ferruginous cross-courses, feeders and 

 lead's of manganese are often met with. A cross-cut was made to a depth of 

 about fifteen feet upon the Isbell lode, and ten hours work resulted in the 

 raising of 6000 pounds of copper ore. This ore is far superior to the ferro- 

 sulphuret of copper, or copper pyrites, which ore is most generally worked in 

 England, and it is, in fact, more profitable than the native copper as found at 

 Lake Superior. It is easily smelted, and the strata in which it is found can 

 also be more economically excavated than any other in which copper ores 

 occur." 



Dr. Le Conte, in continuation, spoke of the occurrence of calamite tinged 

 with copper in the Permian formation of Southern Mexico. 



Mr. Gabb mentioned the deposits of grey copper near the Colorado River, in 

 Arizona, scattered over the surface, the debris of metallic veins. 



Dr. Leidy remarked, that shad had been brought to our markets, for several 

 years past, during the late autumnal months, which were caught in salt water, 

 perhaps in Delaware Bay or off the Jersey coast. When the shad ascend the 

 river to spawn, their stomachs and intestines appear to contain so little that 

 the question is often asked as to the nature of their food. A shad which Dr. 

 L. had purchased a few days since, on examination, was found to have the 

 stomach full of small fishes. There were 30 of them, from 2 to 4 inches long, 

 and all one species, which appears to be the Sand-launce, Ammodytes Ameri- 

 canus. 



Oct. 21th. 



Mr. Vaux, Vice-President, in the Chair. 



Twenty-six members present. 



Philip S. Wales, M. D., was elected a member. 



[Oct. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 229 



The following gentlemen were elected correspondents : L. E. 

 Lateraer, M. D., of New York ; A. A. Breneman, of Lancaster ; 

 H. Evan Rijgersma, of St. Martin's, W. I.; Prof Oliver W. 

 Holmes, of Boston. 



On favorable report of the Committees, the following papers were 

 ordered to be published : 



Notice of some American LEECHES. 

 BY JOSEPH LEIDY, M. D. 



Having been invited by Mr. R. H. Lamborn, Secretary and Treasurer of the 

 Mississippi and Lake Superior Railroad Company, to join an excursion to Min- 

 nesota andtiake Superior, the last summer, during the trip I had the opportu- 

 nity of making many interesting observations in natural history. Tlie many 

 lakes of Minnesota are rich in raoUusca, annelides, &c. Among the anne-« 

 lides, besides an abundance of the ordinary American medicinal leech Jlirudo 

 decora., I noticed one which struck me from its general resemblance to a variety 

 of the European medicinal leech, II. medicinalis. One of the gentlemen in 

 company with us, Mr. Clark, allowed me to try upon him its disposition to 

 bite, but I did not succeeed in getting the animal to do so. Upon exami- 

 nation of the leech, I find it belongs to a different genus from Hirudo, appar- 

 ently to the genus Aulastomum. Its characters are as follows : 



AULASTOMUM LACCSTRIS, n. S. 



Body cylindroid, compressed, narrowing anteriorly, obtuse at the sides (in 

 movement more cylindroid, or less flattened, and quite obtuse laterally com- 

 pared with Hirudo decora in the same condition). Color throughout olive 

 green, (with more of a yellowish hue than in the dorsal green of //. decora)., 

 closely maculated everywhere with confluent spots of a darker hue of the 

 same color. NLnety-two annuli, exclusive of the lips, of uniform width, 

 smooth. Upper lip half ovate, obtuse ; lower lip narrow. Eyes ten; eight in 

 the upper lip ; the last pair separated by an annulus from the others. Mouth 

 obliqut'ly terminal, large. Acetabulum subbasilar, ventral, sessile, circular. 

 Anus dorsal, above the acetabulum. Male aperture in the 24th annulus (but 

 apparently between the 23d and 24th). Female aperture in the 29th annulus 

 (apparently between 28th and 29th). Oesophagus capacious, extending to about 

 the 22d annulus, with 12 folds. Jaws three, small, when at rest included in 

 pouches formed by an eversion of the mucus membrane. Teeth 12 in number 

 to each jaw, bilobed at base. Length 4 to 5 inches, breadth 5 lines posteri- 

 orly ; acetabulum 2 lines in diameter. 



§1 Var. An individual of lighter olive green than the former had black macu- 

 lae replacing the dark green ones, which were also more distinct and fewer. 



Specimens described from Twin Lake, Minnesota. In the summer of 1865 

 I saw several leeches at Saut St. Marie, in Lake Superior, which so far as I 

 can remember were of the same species. At the edge of the shore I also saw 

 some cocoons which I supposed to belong to the same animal. They were 

 ochreous yellow, oval, about 4 or 5 lines in diameter; the surface impressed 

 with concave pentagonal and hexagonal pits. From the angles of the mar- 

 gins of the latter projected branching processes curling at the ends. 



Notwithstanding our familiarity with the American medicinal leech, its long 

 and frequent employment in the medical profession, and the vast numbers 

 which have been brought to notice, it has been so imperfectly described that, 

 in the excellent Systema Helminthum of my late esteemed friend Dr. Diesing, 

 of Vienna, it has been placed with the " Bdellidea S[)ecies genere penitus 

 dubiifi." I therefore take the present opportunity of indicating its characters 

 more fully. It agrees most nearly with the diagnosis of the genus Hirudo, of 



1868.] ♦ 




230 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



which the //. medicinalis of Europe is the type, but neverthelesa possesses pe- 

 culiarities perliaps rather more than specific. Its characters, generic and 

 specific, are as follows; 



HiRUDO DECORA. 



Say: Long's Expedit. vol. ii, 1842, Append. 268. Moquin-Tan^on : Monog. 

 Hirud. 1846, 344. Diesing : Syst. Helm, i, 1850, 474. Wood and Bache : 

 United States Dispensatory. 



Body elongated, compressed cylindroid, narrowing anteriorly, laterally sub- 

 acute ; in motion convex above, fiat below, with the margins compressed, thin, 

 acute and somewhat wavy ; composed of from 90 to 94 annuli, which are uni- 

 form and smooth. Head continuous with the body. Mouth obliquely termi- 

 nal, bilabiate ; the upper lip prominent, seraiovate, obtuse, or from contraction 

 of the tip emarginate ; lower lip forming the inferior portion of the first annu- 

 lus ; the lips together acting as an acetabulum ovoid or obcorde^ in form. 

 Eyes 10, arranged in horse slioe form, the anterior 8 above the upper lip, the 

 posterior pair separated from the others by the first annulus. Acetabulum 

 subbasilar, ventral, sessile, circular. Anus dorsal, above the acetabulum. 

 Male aperture perforating the 25th annulus, with the lips more or less promi- 

 nent. Female aperture between the 29th and 30th annuli. A group of four 

 pajjillae situated back of the latter on the 34th to the 3Gth annuli inclusive. 

 Jaws three, semicircular, laterally compressed, furnished with 55 teeth, which 

 have an acute curved summit and an expanded bilobed base. Oesophagus 

 short and narrow compared with that of Aulastomum, furnished wiih 6 longi- 

 tudinal folds, of which three coarse ones descend from the jaws and three nar- 

 row ones are intermediate. 



. Color. Dorsal surface olive green, with a median irregular band and a 

 lateral line of darker hue of the same kind ; a median row of reddish brown 

 dots, and a lateral row of black dots. Ventral surface reddish brown, extend- 

 ing slightly above the lateral margin, devoid of spots, or more or less macu- 

 lated with black. Acetabulum colored like the back above and the belly 

 below. f 



In the genus Hirudo, as characterized by Diesing, (Sj'st. Helm, i, 465), and to 

 which he assigns 9 recognized species, the jaws are furnished with from 60 to 

 70 teeth, and the male aperture is situated between the 24th and 25th seg- 

 ments. Moquin Tandon (Monog. Hirud. 1846, 326) likewise assigns the latter 

 as the position of the male aperture in the genus Hirudo. 



The position of the generative apertures in H. decora often appear more or 

 less discolored, or of a dull purplish hue, and the same is the case with the 

 group of papillae back of them. The latter do not exist in the medicinal leech 

 of Europe. They are quite conspicuous in ours. I have suspected that they 

 were provided for the adherence of individuals in sexual intercourse, and this 

 view is confirmed by Mr. S. J. Moore, the well known professional leechU 

 and bleeder of this city. Mr. Moore informs me that in copulo two individuals 

 adhere in the position of the papillre and make two turns of a spiral upon 

 each other. 



The red and blacks spots of the back contain from 20 to 22 in each row. 



Length up to 7 inches, by 8 lines in breadth posteriorly ; and the acetabu- 

 lum 3 lines in diameter. 



Notice of some remains of Extinct PACHYDERMS. 

 BY JOSEPH LEIDY, M. D. 



DiCOTYLES NASUTUS. 



Extinct Peccary. Leidy : Pr. A. N. S. 1860, 416. 



An extinct species of Peccary, obviously different from any one heretofore 

 noticed, is indicated by a_ specimen submitted to my examination by the late 

 Dr. David D. Owen. It was found in digging a well in Gibson Co., Indiana, at 

 a depth of between 30 and 40 feet. 



[Oct. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



231 



The specimen consists of tlie fore part of the snout, containing on one side 

 of the jaw the upper canine and anterior two molar teeth. It belonged to a 

 species larger than any of those previously noticed. The face in advance of 

 the molars was more prolonged proportionately than in other species, but was 

 also proportionately narrower. 



The two premolars retained in the fossil are blunted from wear, but are 

 clearly constructed after the same pattern as those of the living Peccaries. 



The incisors, as indicated by their alveoli, held the same relative position as 

 in the latter, but appear to have been comparatively feeble organs, and the an- 

 terior pair were but sliglitl3' larger than tlie lateral ones. 



The upper canine has the same form and mode of insertion as in the recent 

 Peccaries, but is proportionately smaller. 



The anterior ends of the coossified preraaxillaries project to a much greater 

 degree in advance of the incisors than in the other known Peccaries. They 

 are also more truncate in appearance ; and on each side of the intermaxillary 

 notch they exhibit a conspicuous pit, apparently for the attachment of a pair 

 of muscles intended for a longer and more mobile snout than is possessed by 

 the living Peccaries. 



The measurements of the fossil compared with those of other Peccaries, are 

 as follows : 



First molar to front of preraaxillaries, 



" " to canine alveolus, 

 Length of jaw in advance of canines, 

 Breadth outside of canine alveoli, 

 Ant. post. diam. first premolar, 



*' " " second " 



" " " base of canine, 



Mr. Timothy Conrad has recently submitted to my inspection the crown of a 

 second molar tooth obtained by Dr. P. Kuieskern, from a miocene formation of 

 Shark River, Monmouth Co., New Jersey. • 



The tooth bears nearly the proper relation of size with the premolars in the 

 specimen above described of D. nasulus to belong to the same animal, but the 

 fact of its being found in a miocene deposit, while the latter is of supposed 

 post-pliocene age, renders it probable that it pertains to a different species. 



The crown has a strong basal ridge, hardly interrupted at the most prominent 

 portion of the lobes externally and internally. The lobes present the same 

 form and relative position as in D. labiatus. They are considerably worn, ex- 

 hibiting on their summits exposed tracts of dentine ; nearly circular on there 

 external, and larger and irregularly reniforra on there internal. The measure- 

 ments of the tooth in comparison with the corresponding tooth of other species 

 are as follows : 



ant. post, diam. Q\ lines, 

 " 7 

 " " 6J " 



u u 7| u 



trans. 8^ lines. 

 " 6| " 

 " 5^ " 



Fossil tooth, 

 D. labiatus, 

 D. torquatus, 

 D. compressus, 



Anchippus Texanus. 



An apparent solipedal pachyderm, allied to Atickitkermm, is indicated by a 

 specimen consisting of the greater and more characteristic portion of an upper 

 molar tooth submitted to my examination by Dr. B. F. Shumard. It was ob- 

 tained from " Hutchen's well," from a yellow sandstone, supposed to be of 

 miocene age, at a depth of 50 feet below the surface, in Washington Co., 

 Texas. 



The size of the tooth, as well as the general form and proportions, have been 

 nearly as in the European AnchUherium aurelianense. Six lobes, as in the latter, 

 enter into the constitution of the crown. The external lobes, imperfect, appear 



186S.] 




232 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



to have had the same form as in Anchilherium. The inner lobes also have the 

 same form but are proportionately less robust, while the median lobes are 

 more so. Tlie postero-median lobe pursues the same course as \\x Anchilherium 

 and likewise, as in this, joins the outer lobes at their conjunction. From near 

 the middle of its course it gives off a process directed towards the interval of 

 the antero-internal and antero-median lobes and ceasing short of them. This 

 process looks as if disposed to join the contiguous portion of the antero-median 

 lobe, together with it to form a crescentoid lobe, embracing the antero-exter- 

 nal one, as in the corresponding columns of equine teeth. No such arrange- 

 ment exists in Anchitherinm. A triangular tubercle, as in the latter genus, 

 occupies the space at the back of the crown, and it appears as if its anterior 

 angle had a disposition to join the contiguous portion of the postero-median 

 lobe, to form with it a crescentoid lobe, in like manner as in the former case, 

 to embrace the postero-external lobe. 



The construction of the tooth clearly indicates an animal of intermediate 

 character to Anchitherium and Equus. 



Anchippodus riparius. 



Mr. Timothy Conrad has submitted to my examination the specimen of a 

 tooth of ratlier enigmatical character, which I suspect to indicate a pachyderm 

 at least with solipedal affinities. It was obtained by Dr. Knieskern, from a 

 tertiary formation, either eocene or miocene, of Shark River, Monmouth Co., 

 New Jersey. 



The tooth would appear to correspond with a first or second lower true mo- 

 lar of a ruminant, or with any of the series between the first and last molars in 

 Pahcotlierium or Anchitherium. The crown is much worn, even so as to obliterate 

 some of its distinctive features It is composed of a pair of demi-conoidal 

 lobes, one before the other, the plane side internally, the convex and sloping side 

 externally. From each lobe descends a fang in the usual manner. No fold, 

 and only a feeble basal tubercle occu[)ies the deep external angular interval 

 between the lobes. The worn triturating surface presents, on the anterior 

 lobe, a wide crescentoid tract of exposed dentine, slightly concave and bordered 

 with thick enamel, ftie anterior arm of the crescent is obtuse ; the posterior 

 extends less inwardly and is acute. The posterior lobe exhibits a half ellip- 

 spoidal tract of dentine, nearly straight at its inner margin, and bordered with 

 enamel, except behind, where it has all disappeared. The dentinal tracts of 

 the two lobes are separated by a narrow isthmus. The enamel is thick, black 

 and shining, and though it appears to have originally been more or less rough, 

 yet it is now nearly smooth. The measurements of the specimen in its pre- 

 sent condition are as follows : 



Fore and aft diameter of the crown 10 lines ; breadth of posterior lobe 

 obliquely at base of the enameled crown 9J lines; breadth of anterior lobe in 

 same position 8| lines ;. breadth of worn triturating surface of posterior lobe 

 6 lines ; breadth of do. on anterior lobe 5i lines. 



LOPHIODON OCCIDENTALIS. 



Dr. Hayden's last collection of Mauvaises Terres fossils contains a last infe- 

 rior molar tooth which has all the characters ascribed to the corresponding 

 tooth of the extinct tapiroid genus Lophiodon of European eocene foi'mations. 



The crown is composed of a pair of transverse hill-like lobes, as in the 

 lower molars of the Tapir with the addition of a well developed posterior 

 conoidal talon. The principal lobes have subacute summits slightly concave 

 transversely, their posterior surface sloping, their anterior surface concave, 

 and their exterior sides convex. The talon is about half the height of the 

 principal lobes, convex behind, and with the front surface inclining from 

 the middle on each side. The crown is bounded in front by a basal ridge. 

 Fore and aft diameter of the crown 9| lines ; transverse diameter in front Q\ 



lines. 



1 have a suspicion that this specimen belonged to the lowest bed of the 



[Oct. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 233 



White River tertiary formations, and with associated remains of ITijopota- 

 mus and Titanotherium, probably indicates the end of the eocene, which was 

 succeeded by the more extensive raiocene deposits of the Mauvaises Terres, and 

 the pliocene deposits of the Niobrara River. 



On some Cretaceous BEFTILIA. 

 BY E. D. COPE. 



NATANTIA. 



CLIDASTES Cope. 



This genus is established on a species represented by a single dorsal verte- 

 bra, which was found by my friend Prof. 0. C. Marsh, of Yale College, in a 

 marl pit near Swedesboro', Gloucester Co., N. J. Its form is highly character- 

 istic, and resembles considerably that of such genera of Iguanidte as Euphryne 

 and Dipsosaurus, and in some degree those of Cyclura and Iguana. It differs 

 from the dorsals of known serpents in having a zygosphen on the plane of 

 the anterior zygapophysis, and in having the costal articular surface continu- 

 ous with and covering the diapophyses. It differs from the genera of Iguanida* 

 mentioned in the very small amount of upward direction which the face of the 

 articular ball of the centrum exhibits. This face is nearly vertical, meeting 

 the lower plane at a slightly less angle than the upper. It is much more 

 strongh^ convex transversely than vertically. The neural arch rises from the 

 anterior three-fourths of the centrum, the zygapophysis coming off from the 

 edge of the cup, and the diapophysis fi'om -2 of the length behind it. The 

 zygapophysis is more prominent than the zygosphen, and the sinus between 

 them is floored by a thin horizontal plate at its fundus. 



The general form of the vertebra is depressed. The zygapopliyses are 

 spread apart, and their outer margin continues in a straight line from the dia- 

 pophyses. The diapophyses are directed upwards, and are vertical compressed 

 in form ; they are opposite to about equal portions of the centrum and neural 

 arch. Their posterior face is slightly concave, and the upper face behind forms, 

 with the neural arch, a deeply concave line. The convexity of the ball is not 

 so great as in the Crocodilia, and, with the thin lipped cup, resembles that of 

 Mosasaurus ; this resemblance is heightened by the slightly depressed upper 

 outline of the ball, and the form of the diapophyses. The inferior face of the 

 centrum presents a median obtuse ridge, and nearly flat lateral faces, which 

 are concave antero-posteriorly. The cup is broader than deep, and has a 

 slightly concave outline ; the base of the zygosphen originates opposite the 

 middle of the neural canal. The latter is a broad vertical oval. 



ClilDASTES IGUANAVUS CopC, Sp. UOV. 



In this species the articular face of the zygosphen is inclined at an angle of 

 45°, while that of the zygapophysi^'is a little more horizontal. The posterior 

 zygapophyses are broken oS". 



In. Lin. 



Length of centrum below , 2 O-o 



Width of cup 1 6-8 



Depth " 1 1-5 



Width between extremities diapophysis 3 0-5 



Depth articular face diapophyses. lO-o 



From diapophysis to end zygapophysis & 



Between zygosphen and zygapophysis 4-5 



Width centrum anterior to ball 15 



Width of neural canal behind 5-5 



While there is a probability that this animal was a forerunner of the Igua- 

 nian type of Lacertilia, it possessed, no doubt, strong relationships to Mosasau<- 



1868.] 16 




234 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



rus. Its nearest ally is Macrosaurus, in some of the vertebras of which a 

 slight groove, beside the zygapophysis, is the rudiment of the zygantrum. 

 If of the same proportions as Iguana and Amblyrhynchus, its length would 

 not have been much different fi'om twelve feet, or that of the largest alliga- 

 tors of the Mississippi. 



OPHIDIA. 



PALiEOPHIS Owen. 



Pal;eophis littoralis Cope. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Philad. 1868, 147. 



This, with the following, is the only serpent whose remains have been 

 found in the United States in deposits older than the post-pliocene. We owe 

 its preservation to Dr. Knieskern, of Shark River, N. J., best known by his 

 botanical investigations. It is in possession of the New Jersey State Geologi- 

 cal Survey, and has been submitted to me by Prof. Geo. H. Cook, the Director, 

 for examination. The specimens consist of three vertebra;, neither of them 

 perfect ; the most so with neural arch, but with diapophjses broken off. 



The more perfect is an anterior dorsal, with two hypapophyses, the anterior 

 small and directed forwards, the posterior larger, and directed vertically down- 

 wards. The ball has some superior up-look, though the groove which 

 bounds it is but little oblique. Centrum much compressed behind the middle. 

 Plane of basis of zygapophysis opposite floor of neural arch ; zygapophysis di- 

 rected slightly upwards and outwards, continuous by a broad wing running 

 posteriorly, with the diapophysis. Neural arch well elevated, (broken off be- 

 hind). The basis of the neural spine is narrow on the anterior part of the arch, 

 and does not reach the anterior margin. 



Lin. 



Length centrum (ball to edge cup). 8-25 



Depth ball 4-25 



Width " 5- 



" between extremities of zygapophyses 8* 



Depth cup and neural arch .... 7-5 



Width neural arch behind ,. 2-25 



A strong ridge extends from the zygapophysis posteriorly parallel with the 

 centrum. There is no ridge continued from the zygosphen. Except a slight 

 ridge below the fossa, which is above and back of the diapophysis, the surface 

 of the vertebra is smooth. 



Another vertebra is rather broader in proportion to its length, and less com- 

 pressed. 



Lin. 



Length (as above) 7-8 



Width ball 5 



In both the ball has a subtriangular outline. In the more perfect, the base 

 of the neural canal is divided by a narrow longitudinal epapophysis. 



Loeality. — The eocene green sand bed o§ Shark River, Monmouth Co., N. J. 



Pal^ophis halidanus Cope, sp. nov. 



A single vertebra represents this species. It indicates one of the largest of 

 the genus, being little different from the P. typhaeusof Owen in size. The 

 bulk of the vertebra is double that of the P. 1 i 1 1 o r a 1 i s. In addition to this 

 point, it differs from the latter in the greater transverse diameter of the cup 

 and ball; these are transversely oval; in the P. littoralis subtriangular 

 ovate; the centrum is naturally less constricted and broader in the former. 

 The articular face of the zygapophysis is broadly ovate in the P. halida- 

 nus, narrowly in the smaller species ; while there are indications of similar 

 posterior hj'papophysis in both, the anterior in the P. halidanus appears 

 to have been smaller. 



As compared with the species described by Owen, the cup and ball are more 



[Oct. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 235 



transverse than ia any noticed in the British Fossil Reptiles, approaching that 

 figured bj^ him in pi. 3, fig. 22-4; the ball has not the oblique, up-looking 

 profile of that species, but forms a nearly regular arc, with its posterior margin 

 superiorly a little behind its position interiorly. The hypapophysial ridge is 

 considerably interrupted, as in the P. ty phaj us, while P. li tto ral is agrees 

 with the P. toliapicus in having it continuous. The two last named 

 species differ in the development of their hypapophyses ; in the American 

 species both are large, especially the posterior ; in the English, the anterior 

 process is weak or wanting; the ridge connecting the zygapophyses disap- 

 pears in the P. toliapicus and continues in the P. 1 i 1 1 o rali s. The 

 general proportions of the centrum are slender, as in P. toliapicus, and not 

 so stout as4n P. porcatus Owen. 



The diapophyses in the P. h a 1 id an u s are not so pedunculate as in P. ty- 

 p h £6 us, though they are separated above by a notch from the vertical ala 

 which descends from the zj-gapophysis, which I do not find in the P. 1 i 1 1 o ra- 

 ils They approach near the margin of the cup in their transverse extent 

 below. 



The horizontal ridge between the zj-gapophyses is strongly marked, and in 

 the specimen in hand comes off from the anterior vertical ala below the zyga- 

 pophysis, rather than from the plane of that process, as in P. 1 i 1 1 o r a"l i s. 

 The neural (janal is depressed behind, below the margin of the ball, and has 

 an obtuse epapophysis along the median region of its median line. There is 

 no ridge parallel to the hypapophysis. The cup is partially broken, but its 

 transverse diameter appears to have been one-fourth greater than the vertical. 

 The transverse plane of the face of the zygapophysis is transverse. A large 

 part of the neural arch is broken away. 



Lines. 



Length from edge up to convexity of ball 12-75 



Width between anterior zygapophj-ses 13-5 



" of cup 8-4 



Depth " 6-2 



Least width centrum at middle 5-3 



Width neural canal 4- 



Locality. — This serpent was found by my friend 0. B. Kinney in the excava- 

 tions of the Squankum Marl Company, at Squankum, Monmouth Co., N J., a 

 few miles south of Shark River. The horizon is eocene. 



This animal was probably a sea-serpent distantly allied to the Boas, and far 

 exceeding in dimensions those at present inhabiting the Indian Ocean. Its 

 size was similar to that of the very largest of terrestrial serpents of the 

 modern era, and was probably proportioned to a length of twenty feet. 



CHELONIA. 



ADOCUS Cope. 



Emydoid tortoises, in which the rib-heads of the posterior costal bones are 

 represented by rudimental laminte, and the anterior by a crest or truncate 

 ridge in addition. Vertebral scuta narrow; external surfaces smooth or 

 nearly s«. 



Name from A, and a»xoc, rafter (/. «., rib-head). 



This genus, now first characterized, differs from Emys in the absence of cos- 

 tal capitula of the costal plates of the carapace, a feature pointed out by Leidy 

 in the type species. It also possesses a character of Plenrosternum in the pres- 

 ence of a series of marginal dermal plates on the sternal bridge. It belongs to 

 the true Eniydidte, having the eight paired sternal bones instead often of the 

 first-mentioned. The markings of the dermal plates of the plastron ai'e not 

 distinct. Besides the species here described, it includes A. b e a t u s (Emys 

 Leidy), A. f i r m u s (Emys Leidy), A. pr a v u s (Emys Leidy), and A ag i 1 i 3 

 Cope. It represents Emys in our cretaceous, as Osteopygis Cope does Chelydra, 

 and Taphrosphys Cope (type Platemys sulcatus Leidyj dues Hydraspis. 



1868.] 




236 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Adocus petrosus Cope. 



This species is represented by portions of four costal bones, parts or wholes 

 of six marginal bones, most of the right hyosternal, and a posterior portion of 

 the right hypostenial, with the head of the os coracoideum. They were found 

 in the West Jersey Marl Company's pits, Gloucester Co., N. J., in the same lo- 

 calitj' whence the Laelaps was procured. 



The hyosternal bone is preserved in its axillary margin, and is continuous 

 with two marginals of the carapace of the same side. Two of the costals are 

 adjacent, and give the outlines of the vertebral bones and scutes. These show 

 the inferior outline to be very convex, the whole, from angle to angle of the 

 marginal bones of opposite sides, amounting to an arc of about 124 degrees. 

 Each hyosternal is slightly concave below the plane of their comdon suture. 

 Each thins out laterally, though the one preserved is very thick on the axillary 

 margin. There is little difference between the thickness at the mesostertial 

 and hyposternal sutures. All the sutures have minute rugosities, differing much 

 from sternals in A. a g ills and Taphrosphys, which are very ragged, and re- 

 sembling those of Pleurosternum p e c t o r a 1 e m. The piece of hyposternal is 

 even thicker than the hyosternal. The bone is everywhere remarkable for the 

 thickness of its dense layer, and the closeness of the texture of the spongy. 

 The former is one-third the thickness of the sternal and costal bones frac- 

 tured. 



The scute sutures of the inferior surface are obsolete ; those of the dorsal 

 surface are like those of Adocus, i. e., the vertebrals with bracket-shaped 

 lateral borders, with the costal proceeding from the point of the bracket. 



The marginal bones vary much in thickness proximally. They have two 

 proximal sutures, one side convex, the other concave. Four have a heavy bor- 

 der, round in section ; in two of these it is considerably everted. Another has 

 a rather thin margin, slightly decurved, with a submarginal groove separating 

 it from the most massive portion. The costal bones are strongly convex in 

 their length, indicating an arched carapace. 



3Ieasure7nents. 



In. Lin. 



Hyosternal Avidth ,, 3 9 



" " to origin axillary abutment 2 1-5 



'• length on median suture 2 1-5 



" thickness near mesosternal line 9 



" " " hyposternal " 7-2 



Hyposternal thickness near posterior suture 9 



Costal width , 1 7-5 



" thickness vertebral suture 8 



Marginal No. 1 width 2 1-5 



" " length 1 7 



" " proximal thickness , 3 



" No. 5 " " . 8-2 



" " length 1 6 



" " wadth 1 7-5 



" " width dermal scute >. 9 



This animal is therefore a species of considerable size, though less than most 

 of 'those described here, and particularly convex and solid in every part, While 

 the sutural lines of the hyosternal measure about the same as in A. firmu s 

 (Emys Leidy), it is much more convex and not so thick at the mesosternal 

 suture. The marginal bones are relatively just half the size. The Pleuroster- 

 num i> e c t r a 1 e ditfers in being very much flatter, and in having a more 

 discoid mesosternal bone. The hyosternals are also much thicker at their 

 union with the marginals than in the present. 



A portion of a hyo- or hyposternal bone collected at the same place, and 

 near or at the same time, may be referred to a larger individual of the same 



[Oct. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 237 



species or to A. firm u s. It exhibits a wedge for a diagonal gomphosis be- 

 tween the two sutures, which are preserved. The thickness on the median 

 suture is 14 lines. 



DINOSAURIA. ^ 



L.ELAPS Cope. 



L;elaps aquilunguis Cope. 



External J or 111 and position in Lfelaps. 



Tlie short fore-limbs of this genus suggest at once the habit qjt standing 

 upon the hind limbs chiefly, yet this disproportion is no sufficient reason 

 therefor, and is seen to exist in the tailless Batrachia, where no such position 

 is assumed. It exists to a less degree among the modern lizards, whose position 

 we well know to be always horizontal. 



Lfelaps had, however, no doubt an erect position, for the following reason : 

 The head and neck of the femur are at right angles to the direction of motion 

 on the condyles, or in the same plane as the transverse direction of the con- 

 dyles. This indicates that the femur has been reflexed and extended in a plane 

 parallel with that of the vertebral column. The relations of articulation are 

 those of birds, and different from those of reptiles, where the directions of the 

 proximal and distal condyles of the femur are oblique to each other, and the 

 proximal of a vertically elongate form, thus allowing the femur to be obliquely 

 directed as regards the axis of the body, so that in a prone position it rested on • 

 the ground equally clear of the body and the flexed tibia. 



The resemblance of the tibia, with its high crest and embracing astragalus, 

 as well as the slender fibula, to those of the birds, confirms this position ; so 

 do types of the iliac and sacral structures. The same is suggested by the great 

 bird-like reptile tracks found in many places. 



How must a reptilian form with elongate vertebral column and heavy tooth- 

 bearing cranium have stood erect? The elongate form of the femur as com- 

 pared 'with the tibia is only seen among animals who walk erect, in man ; in 

 the birds and kangaroos the femur is very much shorter than the t:'bia ; be- 

 sides these no other vertebrates progress on the hind limbs entirely. The 

 lizards, which are prone, present the long femur exceeding or equalling the 

 tibia. 



The bird-like reptile did not, however, exhibit the slight flexure between 

 femur and tibia presented bj- man. The acetabulum in the known Dinosaurs 

 is not or but weakly completed below, or what would be in man anteriorly, in- 

 dicating thatthe weight of the body was supported by a femur placed at a 

 strong angle with the longitudinal axis of the ilium ; otherwise the head of the 

 femur would be most readily displaced. If, therefore, the ilium were more or 

 less erect, the femur was directed forwards ; if horizontal, the femur must have 

 projected downwards. I have shown, however, that the position and therefore 

 the ilium was oblique or eject ; therefore the femur was directed very much 

 forwards.* 



There are, however, other reasons for believing that the femur was directed 

 forwards, and somewhat upwards from the ilium. One is, that the centre of 

 gravity of an elongate reptilian dorsal and sternal region must have been fur- 

 ther forwards than in the short-bodied bird, and therefore the knee must have 

 been further forward, in order to bring the support — i. e., the tibia, etc.— J3e- 

 neath it. Another is, that the articulation of the tarso-metatarsal bones with 

 / 



* The remarks of Prof.Owen on this relation in Megalosaurus are so pertinent, that they 

 are introduced here : 



"The backward position and production of the corresponding articular prominences or 

 condyles in both femur and tibia, indicate that these bones were joined together at an 

 angle, probably approaching a right one, when in their intermediate state between tlex on 

 and extension; and that the motion of the tibia could not have taken place to the extuat 

 required to bring the two bones to the same line." 



1868.] 




238 PEOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



the tibia is excessively oliliqiie, requiring that one or both sections of the limb 

 should be very oblique to the vertical line. As the tarso-metatarsal elements 

 fcupport the weight immediately on the ground, and as it is obvious that the 

 leverage moving the great weight of the body on its support must have been 

 tiie gastrocnemius and soleus muscles extending the tibia on the metatarsal 

 segment as the fixed point, and as there is no indication of correspondingly 

 powerful muscles to flex the metatarsals on the phalanges, it is obvious that 

 the latter has been the more vertical, and the former the more oblique seg- 

 ment. And if the tibial segment has been obliciue, for reasons just given, the 

 femur miirn have been oblique also.* 



The length of the femur has had relation to another peculiarity as well, as 

 follows : 



In an animal designed to walk erect, it is necessary that the centre of gravity 

 should be transferred as far posteriorly as is consistent with the type. In Lte- 

 laps and other Dinosauria w^^e have very elongate pubic and iliac bones, and, as 

 I have before described, these appear to have been designed to enclose and 

 support an abdominal mass, in a position beneath the sacrum, and posterior to 

 the position observed in quadrupedal mammals and reptiles. We would thus 

 have a prominent keeled belly between the femora, supported by elongate 

 curved ischia behind, and slender pubes directed downwards in front. In Poe- 

 cilopleurum the space between the latter and the sternum was occupied by 

 abdominal ribs. The length of femur places the arc through which the knee 

 moves beyond this projection. 



The confluence of a greater number of vertebra; to form a sacrum, seen in 

 this order and in the birds, would seem to have a direct relation to the support 

 of the above-mentioned greater weight by it, than in horizontal vertebrata, 

 where the weight is distributed throughout the length of the vertebral column. 



The shifting of the neural arches backwards, seen in the same orders, pointed 

 out by Owen, would have a mechanical relation to the same necessity, — i. e., 

 their partial transfer over the intervertebral spaces naturally tending to 

 strengthen the union of the sacral elements. 



The foot need not, however, have been placed precisely beneath the centre 

 of gravity of the body, as the animal was furnished with a tail of greater or less 

 weight. This member bears, however, little proportion to the great size of 

 those seen in Iguanodon, Hadrosaurus, etc., but exhibits a commencement of 

 the reduction which is so striking among the birds. 



The proportions of the metatarsus are only to be ascertained by an examina- 

 tion of those of allied species, as L. m ac ropu s and Megalosaurus b u c k- 

 I an d ii. As all the other bones are more slender than those of the latter, so 

 were no doubt these bones longer in proportion to their breadth. I have esti- 

 mated it above as equal to a little over half the tibia. 



The digits in the genus Ladaps have not, in all probability, been more than 

 four. The less bird-like forms of HyUeosaurus and Iguanodon have had, ac- 

 cording to Owen, but three metatarsals, and it is^ot according to the rule of 

 successional relation that there should be any repetition of a reptilian character, 

 in a iioint of prime importance in measuring the steps of succession between 

 re]jtiles and birds. Lselaps, and probably Megalosaurus also, had but three 

 digits directed anteriorly, and a fourth lateral or rudimental. 



It is true that Deslongchamps ascribes five digits to Poecilopleurum, after a 

 cafeful study of abundant material. He was, however, much more impressed 

 ■with the Crocodilian affinities of that reptile than with any other, a,nd did not 

 recognize the avine in the astragalus. It seems to me quite possible that one 

 of his toes can be 'dispensed with, — for example, the second, of which but one 

 phalange is said to remain. If we ascribe the fractured extremity of the bone 



* Probably in a squ.itting posture the animal rested on the entire sole as far as the heel, 

 though not under ordinary cireumstauces ; as I have suggested in Amer. Katuralist, 1, 28, 

 Mycteria and other wading birds assume a similar position at times. 



[Oct. 




NATUEAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 239 



regarded (Tab. viii, fig. 6) as the first phalange of the fourth digit, to the me- 

 tatarsal of the same, the phalange referred to the second may find another 

 place. The fifth digit also rests on the evidence of one phalange only. Though 

 the reasoning of Deslongchamps in referring these pieces is good, it seems to me 

 that renewed study might result in ascribing to this genus three toes anteri- 

 orly and one appendicular, — his first. 



The predominance of Reptilian characters in the Dinosauria, as indicated by 

 the structure of the vertebras and other points, renders it probable that the 

 vertebral column did not present that remarkable flexure where the cervical 

 and dorsal series are joined, which is seen in the birds, but rather that they 

 were more or less continuous, and formed a continuum from the sacrum to 

 the nape. The cervicals may have been somewhat elongated, as in some birds, 

 yet this is not probable in view of the necessary balance to be preserved, which 

 would not admit of much projection of the cranium anteriorly. The cervicals 

 of Hadrosaurus are not so long as in the modern Varani ; in Iguanodon they 

 are similar, while their rather oblique articular faces indicate the elevation of 

 that region, and of the position of the cranium. In the case of these animals, 

 there is not the same necessity for a long neck as in the birds, for even in Lae- 

 laps and other genera which probably never used the fore limbs in progression, 

 they furnished a support to the body when the head was employed in taking 

 food, etc., on the ground. 



The caudal region affects the general proportions of a vertebrated animal 

 materially. In Lselaps it is shorter than in any known Dinosaur, measuring less 

 than the hind limb by half a foot. It was cylindrical, slender towards the tip, 

 and in fact not unlike that of a dog, and probably capable of motion similar to 

 the latter. When the Laelaps stood erect, the tail would trail its extremity on 

 the ground, but could furnish little support. 



Comparison with other Dinosauria. 



41 The species with which detailed comparisons can be made, arc the Poecilo- 

 pleurum bucklandii Deslongchamps, and Megalosaurus bucklandii 

 Mantell. All three were of nearly similar size. The Poecilopleurum is better 

 known than the Megalosaurus, and furnishes many similar parts. Thus the 

 humeri possess the same disproportionately small size, the extremity of the tibia 

 is similarly expanded and flattened, and is similarly embraced by the astraga- 

 lus. There are, however, abundant specific differences in all the bones described 

 by Deslongchamps. In the same manner the Laelaps aquil unguis presents 

 abundant specific differences from the Megalosaurus bucklandii. The 

 slender curved femur diff'ers from the massive straight one of the latter ; the 

 tibia is more slender, and more flattened distally ; its extremity is wedge- 

 shaped, not rhombic as in the European species. The claws of Megalosaurus 

 are relatively shorter and less curved. 



The generic relations with these two types must be understood. Laelaps is 

 obviously distinct from Poecilopleurum in the structure of its feet. In the 

 former the phalanges are slender, in the latter massive, and mostly broad. The 

 claws are more diflerent ; in the former compressed and hooked; as broad as 

 deep in the latter, and but little curved. They are prehensile in the former, in 

 the latter not at all, or adapted only for defense ; they present a very small 

 point of insertion, compared with the large knob of the former ; they also ex- 

 hibit a deep groove on the side, which is weak in Lielaps. The difi"erence in 

 this respect is about that between a raptorial and rasorial bird. 



As compared with Megalosaurus, Laelaps probably had very short fore-limbs. 

 I have pointed out the difference in the femur, which is perhaps not more than 

 specific, though this cannot be positively asserted. The difference in the form 

 of the extremity of the tibia I suspect also to indicate more than specific differ- 

 ence. The bone described by Owen (Paheontographical Society) as scapula, 

 furnishes means of estimating the size of the humerus. The glenoid cavity is 



1868.] 




240 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



some six inches in diameter, indicating a humerus of four times the size of 

 that of Lfflaps at least. The claws also of the Megalosaurus are intermediate 

 between those of Leelaps and Poecilopleurum, being less compressed and hooked 

 than in the first. 



Size. — In estimating the length of this reptile we have the lengths of the 

 limbs and tail, and proportions of parts of the jaws to rely on. There is some 

 reason to believe that the lengths of the hind leg and of the tail were similar. 

 In erect animals, as the Kangaroo and Ostrich, the length of the vertebral 

 column anterior to the sacrum about equals the length of the hind limb. In 

 the present form the limb is increased by the greater length of the femur than 

 in either, but is shorter than that of the bird by the abbreviation of the 'meta- 

 tarsals. The proportions would then remain about the same as in the bird, 

 were it not that a head larger than in that class has evidently been borne 

 upon the cervical vertebrfe, more as in the Kangaroo. It appears then that 

 the increased length of the femur in La?laps may be added to the proportions 

 of the Kangaroo, thus giving a nearer equality between the lengths of the hind 

 limb and the body and head together. The length would then be seventeen 

 feet, divided as follows : 



Ft. In. 



Tail 8 6 



Body and necli 6 6 



Head 2 



Total 17 



This is probably the size of the Barnesboro individual, which is in all pro- 

 bability young, as the sacral vertebra; are entirely disunited. The phalange 

 from Mississippi, above described, is very much larger thau any of the former, 

 and may have belonged to an adult animal. In any case it indicates a gigantic 

 reptile of twenty-three feet or more in length. 



The femur of the young individual is as long as that described by Owen 

 (Paheontographica) as belonging to Megalosaurus. As that genus was probJk' 

 bly more bulky anteriorly than Lselaps, its length, as compared with the 

 dimensions of the hind limb, is greater. If, however, it approached Laelaps in 

 proportions, as is probable, the length of thirty feet assigned to it appears too 

 great. In fact it cannot have been larger than the Mississippi, or adult Ltelaps 

 a q u i 1 u n g u i s. 



Thus the original estimate of the lengths of these carnivorous Dinosaurs 

 is still further reduced. Owen accomplished part of this by estimating on the 

 mammalian and rejecting the reptilian type ; the introduction of the avine 

 element places the proportion at about the proper point in respect to the Gonio- 

 poda at least. 



The elevation of the head of Lfelaps would no doubt depend more upon the 

 pleasure of the animal, than in a more quadrupedal form. Nine feet above 

 the o-round is a probable estimate for the young one, and twelve for the adult. 



Movements. — The mind will picture to itself the actions and habits of such 

 strange monsters as the Dinosauria, and in respect to some of the genera there 

 is considerable basis for speculation. 



That monsters walking on two posterior limbs have inhabited the earth, has 

 been familiar to all since the publication, by Hitchcock and Deane, of the 

 histories of the great foot-tracks of the Triassic Red Sandstone of the Connec- 

 ticut valley. Such tracks have been discovered by Jno. Smock, in the same 

 formation, in New Jersey, and by Dr. Chas. Hitchcock in Pennsylvania. Prof. 

 Hitchcock ascribed the tracks described by him to birds. Prof. Agassiz* ex- 

 presses the belief that they were made by vertebrates combining characters of 

 existing classes, perhaps of reptiles and mammals, rather than by birds. Now 

 a carnivorous Dinosaur probably allied to Lalaps, as proven by a portion of 



* Contrib. Nat. Hist. U. S., 1857, vol. i. 



[Oct. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 241 



the jaw with teeth, in the Academy's Museum, the Bathygnathus borealis 

 of Leidy, has left its remains in the red sandstone of Prince Edward's Island, of 

 the same age, and we safely conclude that some of the large-clawed biped 

 tracks of Hitchcock are those of that animal. Dr. Leidy has suspected that 

 this would jirove to be the case, as he asks* "was this animal probably not one 

 of the bipeds which made the so-called bird tracks in the sandstone of the 

 Connecticut vallej^?" This enquiry was, after an examination of the form of 

 Laelaps, answered in the affirmative. f I have ascribed these tracks to reptiles 

 allied to Lielaps, and Huxley believes also that they were made by Dino- 

 sauria.J 



The creatures which strode along the flats of the Triassic estuary have been 

 various in species and genera, as pointed out by Hitchcock. Some were pure- 

 ly biped ; some occasionally supported themselves on a pair of reduced fore- 

 limbs. There are impressions where these creatures have squatted on their 

 haunches. One can well imagine the singular effect which these huge grega- 

 rious reptiles would produce, standing motionless, goblin-like, on a horizon 

 lit by a full moon ; or lying with outstretched neck and ponderous haunches 

 basking in the noonday sun ; or marching or wading slowlj^ along the water's 

 edge, ready for a plunge at passing fishes or swimming reptiles. But in the 

 active pursuit of terrestrial prey did such an animal as the Lalaps run like the 

 Ostrich, or leap like the Kangaroo ? So far as the Triassic tracks go, there is 

 no evidence of leapers, only runners, fell upon an exhausted quarry. Or were 

 they only carrion eaters, tearing and devouring the dead of age and disease ? 

 Probably some were such, but the prehensile claws of La?laps are like instru- 

 ments for holding living prey. 



Leelaps has a long femur ; those great leapers the Kangaroos have a short 

 one ; the cursorial birds, however, have a similar form of femur, but they do 

 not leap. So this form is not conclusive. The modern Iguanas have long 

 femora, and they all progress by their simultaneous motion ; they only leap ; 

 but man with his long femur runs only. The question then does not depend 

 on the form of the femur. 



I have suggested on a former occasion that La^laps took enormous leaps and 

 struck its prey with its hind limits. I say, in describing it, " The small size of 

 the fore limbs must have rendered them far less efficient as weapons than the 

 hind feet, in an attack on such a creature as Hadrosanrus ; hence perhaps the 

 latter were preferred in inflicting fatal wounds. The ornithic type of sacrum 

 elucidated by Prof. Owen suggests a resemblance in the use of the limb." 



The lightness and hollowness of the bones of the Lfelaps iirrest the attention. 

 This is especially true of the long bones of the hind limbs; those of the fore 

 limbs have a less considerable medullar}' cavity. In this respect they are 

 quite similar to those of Crelosaurus Leidy, of which its describer remarks, 

 "that the medullary cavitj' of the tibia is large, and the walls thin and 

 dense," " being intermediate in this respect between the characters of the 

 mammals and birds." 



The mutual flexute, as well as the lightness and strength of the great femur 

 and tibia, are altogether appropriate to great powers of leaping. The feet 

 must have been elongate, whatever the form of the tarsi; the phalanges, or 

 finger bones, were slender, nearly as much so relatively as those of an eagle, 

 while the great claws in which they terminated were relatively larger and more 

 compressed than in the birds of prey. There was no provision for the retrac- 

 tibility observed in the great carnivorous mammalia, but the size of the infe- 

 rior basal tuberosity indicates the insertion of a great tendon of a powerful 

 flexor muscle. The slight grooves at the base, and deeper one on each side 

 of the phalange, suggest the usual horny sheath, which, prolonging the point 

 of the claw, would give it a total length of eleven inches. 



* Journal Acad. Nat. Sciences, 1854, 329. 



t American Natufalist, 1807, ^^7. Hay's Medical News and Reporter, 1868. 



JProceedings Royal Society, London, 1808, p. Natural Science Review, 1868. 



1868.] 




242 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



The fore limbs must indeed have been of very little use, and it is very diffi- 

 cult to imagine an animal running and seizing the prey it overtakes with the 

 hind limb. If it were not a carrion feeder it must have leaped. We are in- 

 formed by Hochstetter,* that the Apteryx leaps with the utmost ease over ob- 

 jects two and three feet in height, that is, higher than its own head. Huxley 

 suggests that the Compsognathus "hopped" along on its hind limbs. The 

 bulk of La^laps is no objection to its leaping, for the giant extinct Kangaroos, 

 Macropus atlas and titan, found in the postpliocenes of Australia, did not 

 fall far short of these reptiles in this respect. We may add that Laslaps had 

 smaller allies, as L. macropus one-half, and Ccelosaurus a n t i q u u s one- 

 fourth or fifth the size, whose remains, so far as they go, indicate an identity 

 of habit. Deslongchamps says of Poecilopleurum bucklandii, that it " could 

 project itself with prodigious force, as a spring which unbends itself; but this 

 could not have been on a solid surface, since the fore limbs are too weak to 

 resist the shock of the fall of such a heavy body." He supposed it to be marine 

 in its habits, accustomed to battling a stormy sea. However, his objection to 

 leaping on land is obviated by understanding that progressive movement was 

 entirely performed by the hind limbs. 



On the Origin of GENEBA. 

 BY EDWARD D. COPE, A.M. 



Introduction. — The present fragmentary essay is a portion of what other oc- 

 cupation has prevented the author from completing. It does not therefore 

 amount to a complete demonstration of the points in question, but it is hoped 

 that it may aid some in a classification of facts with a reference to their signi- 

 fication. When all the vast array of facts in possession of the many more 

 learned than the writer, are so arranged, a demonstration of the origin of 

 species may be looked for somewhere in the direction here attempted to be 

 followed. 



Conclusions of any kind will scarcely be reached, either by anatomists who 

 neglect specific and generic characters, or secondly by systematists who in 

 like manner neglect internal structure. Such will never perceive the system 

 of nature. f 



Analysis of the subject. 



I. Relations of allied genera. 



First ; in adult age. 



Second ; in relation to their development. 



A. On exact parallelism. 



3. On inexact or remote parallelism. 



y. On parallelism in higher groups. 



dT. On the extent of parallelisms. 



II. Of retardation and acceleration in generic characters. * ' 



First ; metamorphoses in adult age. 



a. The developmental relations of generic and specific characters. 



/?. Probable cases of transition. 



y. Ascertained cases of transition. 

 Second ; earlier metamorphoses. 



(T. The origin of inexact parallelisms. 



* New Zealand Amer. Transl., 181. 



fit might seem incredible that either class should systematize with confidence, yet a 

 justly esteemed author writes even at the present day, "However, there is scarcely asys- 

 tematist of the present day who does not pay more or less attention to anatomical charac- 

 ters, in establishing the higher groups !" (The italics are our own,) As though a system 

 was of any value which is not based on the whole st> ucture, and as though lower groups 

 were only visible in external characters : in a word, as though external (muco-dermal, 

 dental, etc.) characters were not "anatomical !" 



[Oct. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 243 



III. Relations of higher groups. 



rt. Of homologous groups. 



p. Of heterology. 



•y. Of mimetic analogj\ 

 lY. Of natural selection.* 



a. As affecting class and ordinal characters. 



0. As affecting family characters. 



y. As affecting generic characters. 



ef. As affecting specific characters. 



6. On metaphysical species. 

 v.. Of epochal relations. 



The laws which have regulated the successive creation of organic beings 

 will be found to be of two kinds, as it appears to the writer. The first, that 

 which has impelled matter to produce numberless ultimate types from com- 

 mon origins ; second, that which expresses the mode or manner in which this 

 first law has executed its course, from its commencement to its determined 

 end, iu the many cases before us. 



That a descent, with modifications, has progressed from the beginning of 

 the creation, is exceedingly probable. The best enumerations of facts and 

 arguments in its favor are those of Darwin, as given in his various important 

 works. The Origin of Species, etc. There are, however, some views respect- 

 ing the laws of development on which he does not dwell, and which it is pro- 

 posed here to point out.* 



In the first place, it is an undoubted fact that the origin of genera is a more 

 distinct subject from the origin of species than has been supposed. 



A descent with modification involves continuous series of organic types 

 through one or many geologic ages, and the co-existence of such parts of such 

 various series at one time as the law of mutual adaptation may permit. 



These series, as now found, are of two kinds ; the uninterrupted line of 

 specific, and the same uninterrupted line of generic characters. These are 

 independent of each other, and have not, it appears to the writer, been de- 

 veloped pari passu. As a general law it is proposed to render highly proba- 

 ble that the same specific form has elisted through a succession of genera, and 

 perhaps in ditterent epochs of geologic time. 



With regard to the first law of development, as above proposed, no one has 

 found means of discovering it, and perhaps no one ever will. It would 

 answer such questions as this. What necessary coincidence of forces has 

 resulted in the terminus of the series of fishes in the perches as its inost 

 specialized extreme; or, of the Batrachia, in the fresh-water frogs, as its ulti- 

 mum ; or, of the thrushes, among birds, as their highest extreme : in a word, 

 what necessity resulted in man as the crown of the Mammalian series, instead of 

 some other organic type ? Our only answer and law for these questions must 

 be, the will of the Creator. 



The second law, of modes and means, has been represented to be that of 

 natural selection by Darwin. This is, in brief, that the will of the animal, ap- 

 plied to its body, in the search for means of subsistence and protection from 

 injuries, gradually produces those features which are evidently adaptive in 

 their nature. That, in addition, a disposition to a general variation on the 

 part of species has been met by the greater or less adaptation of the results of 

 such variation to the varying necessities of their respective situations. That 

 the result of such conflict has been the extinction of those types that are not 

 adapted to their immediate or changed conditions, and the preservation of 

 those that are. 



In determining those characters of plants and animals, which constitute them 

 what they are, we have, among others of higher import, those which constitute 

 them species and those which constitute them genera. What we propose is : 

 that of the latter, comparatively very few in the whole range of animals and 



1868.] 




244 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



plants are adaptations to external needs or forces, — and of the former a large 

 proportion are of the same kind. How then could they owe their existence to 

 a process regulated by adaptation ? 



Darwin is aware of these facts to some degree, but, as already said, he does 

 not dwell on them. Where he does, he does not attjpipt to account for them 

 on the principle of natural selection. 



There are, it appears to us, two laws of means and modes of development, 

 I. The law of acceleration and retardation. II. The law of natural selection. 



It is my purpose to show that these propositions are distinct, and not one 

 apart of the other: in brief, that while natural selection operates by the 

 " preservation of the fittest," retardation and acceleration act without any 

 reference to " fitness " at all ; that instead of being controlled by fitness, 

 it is the controller of fitness. Perhaps all the characteristics supposed to 

 mark generalized groups from genera up (excepting, perhaps, families), to 

 have been evolved under the first mode, combined with some intervention of 

 the second, and that specific characters or species have been evolved by a com- 

 bination of a lesser degree of the first with a greater degree of the second mode. 



1 propose to bring forward some facts and propositions in the present essay 

 illustrative of the first mode. 



I. On. the relations of nearly allied genera. 



First. The writer's views of the relations of genera have already been given 

 at the close of an Essay on the Cypriuoid Fishes of Pennsylvania.* It is easy 

 enough to define isolated genera which have few immediate affines, but among 

 extensive series of related forms the case is different. One principle, however, 

 pervades the conception and practice of all zoologists and botanists, which 

 few take pains to analyse or explain. It is simply that they observe a succes- 

 sional relation of groups, by which they pass from one type of structure to one 

 or several other types, and the presence or absence of the steps in this succes- 

 sion they regard as definitions of the genera. 



It is true that the reader will often find introduced into diagnoses of 

 genera, characters which indicate nothing of this sort. It is often necessary, 

 indeed, to introduce characters which ari not peculiar to the genus character- 

 ized, for the sake of distinguishing it from similar ones of other series, but this 

 only in an imperfect state of the record. Moreover, the ability of the writer 

 to distinguish genera being thus tested, he too often fails by introducing 

 family and specific characters, or by indulging in an unnecessary redundancy. 

 In general it may be said that adjacent genera of the same series differ from 

 each other by but a single character; and generally, that the more remote 

 differ by characters as numerous as the stages of their remove. 



It is precisely as, among the inorganic elements, we pass from the electro- 

 negative, non-oxidizing extreme of the Halogens, with Fluorine as the extreme, 

 to the electro-positive, violently oxidizing extreme of the alkaline metals, 

 whose extreme is potassium, by steps whose relative position is measured or 

 determined first by these tests ; and as these steps have each their included 

 series of bodies, characterized by their successive relations on the lower level 

 of a subordinate range of characters. This principle is distinctly admitted by 

 many zoologists ;f those who deny it generally failing to perceive it because 

 they attempt to guage a major scale by characters which are really the test of 

 one or all of the subordinate or included scales. It holds true of most of the 

 groups of organic beings ; thus the class is a scale of orders, the order of 

 tribes. I will not now say that the tribe is a scale of families, as the case is 

 here much modified, but what is chiefly to be considered in this essay, is that 

 the family is composed of one or several scales of genera. 



♦Trans. Amer. Philos. Soe., 1866, from Proc. Aead. Nat. Sci., Phil., 1859, 332. 

 fProf. Bronn, in his Classen u. Ordnungen des Thierreiches, has everywhere a chapter 

 on Die aufsteigende Reihe, — "the ascending scale." 



[Oct. 




NATURAL SCIEXCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 245 



Second. Nov\-, the more nearly allied genera are, the more surely will these 

 generic steps be found to fall into the direct line of the steps of the develop- 

 ment of the hio-hest, or that with the longest scale, the former being truly 

 identical with the latter in generic characters. Less allied genera will offer 

 au inexact or incomplete imitation of such identity, — some additional charac- 

 ter being present to disturb it. Such genus belongs to another series, charac- 

 terized by the disturbing feature, whose members, however, bear to each other 

 the relation claimed above for such. 



The relation of genera, which are simply steps in one and the same line of 

 development, may be called exact parallelism, while that of those where one or 

 more characters intervene in the maturity ol^ either the lower or higher genus 

 to destroy identity, maj' be called incomplete paralleUsm. 



The latter relation has been dwelt on by Yon Biir, Agassiz and other writers, 

 but none have accepted the existence of exact parallelism, or seen its important 

 relation to the origin of genera. 



Third. That the lowest or most generalized terms or genera of a number of 

 allied scries, will stand to each other in a relation of exact parallelism. That 

 is, if we trace each series of a number, up to its lowest or most generalized 

 genus, the latter together will form a series, similar in kind to each of the sub- 

 series ; i. e. each genus will be identical with the undeveloped conditions of 

 that which progresses the farthest, in respect, of course, to the characters 

 which define it as a series. 



Those characters of the skeleton which we are accustomed to call embry- 

 onic, are only so because thej^ relate to the developmental succession witnessed 

 in animals at the present time. Characters not so called now were probably 

 as much so at one period now passed. Hence embryonic characters of the 

 bony system do not, as I have often had occasion to observe, characterize the 

 types of the highest rank, but only subordinate divisions of them. Thus the 

 Elasmobranchs are probably repressed forms of groups of a really higher 

 grade than the bony fishes, or Teleostei, which may l)e known to us. In their 

 early presence in the geologic series we have evidence of the first beginning of 

 a higher type. 



In the same manner it has been discovered that the molecular constitution 

 of the elementary substances do not characterize their highest or most distinct 

 series, but rather the substances themselves within the lower group or family 

 to which they belong. The gaseous, liquid and solid molecular conditions 

 being characters distinguishing otherwise allied substances in the same way 

 morphologically (we cannot say yet developmentally), as the cartilaginous, 

 osseous and exostosed or dermosseous characters distinguish otherwise nearly 

 allied genera. 



The '' family " group embraces one or many of such series. If we trace the 

 series in several families to their simplest or most generalized terms or genera, 

 and compare them, we will not find the relation to be one of exact parallelism 

 in the series of the "order," so far as our present knowledge extends, but in a 

 developmental sense, one of divergence from the commencement. 



If we could know the simplest known terms or famil}' characters of a number 

 of groups of families, or " orders," we would probably find them to represent 

 a series of exact parallelism, though to find such simplest terms we must go 

 far into past periods, since the higher the group the more extensive the rano-e 

 of its character, and the less likely to be found unmixed with additions and 

 extensions, in modern times. 



Finally, the series of classes is in the relation of the essential characters of 

 the same, as expressed in their now extinct, most generalized and simjjle repre- 

 sentatives, also one of "exact parallelism." 



a.. Examples of exact parallelism. 

 * In generic series. 

 1. As an example we may take the genus Trachycephalus (Batrachia Anura). 



1868.] 




246 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



Nearly allied to it is the genus Osteocephalus, which differs in the normal ex- 

 ostosis of the cranium not involving the derm, as in the former. Close to this 

 is Scy topis, where the fully ossified cranium is not covered by an exostosis. 

 Nest below Scytopis is Hyla, where the upper surface of the cranium is not 

 ossified at all, but is a membranous roof over a great fontanelle. Still more 

 imperfect is Hylella,* which differs from Hyla in the absence of vomerine teeth. 

 Now the genus Trachycephalus, after losing its tail and branchiaj, possesses all 

 the characters of the genus Hylella and those of Hyla, either at or just before the 

 mature state of the latter, as the ethmoid bone is not always ossified in advance 

 of the parietals. It soon, however, becomes a Scytopis, next an Osteocephalus, 

 and finally a Trachycephalus. It belongs successively to these genera, for an 

 exhaustive anatomical examination has failed to reveal any characters by 

 which, during these stages, it could be distinguished from these genera. 



Now it would be a false comparison to say that the young of Trachycephalus 

 was identical with the genus Agalychnis, which in truth it resembles, be- 

 cause that genus is furnished with one other character, — the presence of a ver- 

 tical pupil, — and belongs to another series in consequence, which is represented 

 as yet, wiih our present imperfect knowledge, — or perhaps imperfect fauna, — 

 by three genera only. 



2. The lowest type of the near allies of our common fresh-water frogs is the 

 genus Ranula, where the prefrontal bones are narrow strips on each side the 

 ethmoid cartilage ; the ethmoid cartilage itself entirely unossified above, and 

 the vomerine teeth very few and on a small elevation. There are two species, 

 R. a f f i n i s and R. p a 1 m i p e s. The other species have the ethmoid carti- 

 lage ossiffied above, at least beneath the extremities of the frontoparietals. 



Those of the latter most like Ranula possess the same type of narrow pre- 

 frontals, separated by a broad area of cartilaginous ethmoid, and fasciculi of 

 teeth. Of this type is Rana delalandii, and probably R. porosissima 

 Steind., of the South Ethiopian region. Other species of the same type extend 

 their vomerine patches into lines ; such are R. mascariensis, R. fasci- 

 a t a, R. o x y r h y n c h u s , R. g r a y i , and other South African species. 



The prefrontals are subtriangular, and approach each other more or less in 

 the numerous species of North America and of the Regio Palasarctica, while 

 generally the vomerine teeth are in fascicles or very short series. In the 

 Ethiopian Rana f u s c i g u 1 a the prefrontals unite on the median line, roof- 

 ing over the ethmoid cartilage and reducing it, while the vomerine teeth are 

 in very sl.ort lines. 



In the species of the Pal^otropical region, Rana tigrina, R. vittigera, 

 R. cyanophlyctis, R. grunniens, R. hexadactyla, R. corruga- 

 t a, R. e h r e n b r g i i, R. g r a c i 1 i s, and the Ethiopian R. occipitalis, 

 the prefrontals not only unite solidly (the suture remaining on the median 

 line), but extend and closely fit to the fronto parietals. The vomerine series 

 have lengthened out into series. 



Now the young of the latter type of Rana (I take as an example the R. ti- 

 grina, one of the most abundant and largest of Indian frogs) presents the 

 subtriangular prefrontals neither in contact with each other or with the 

 fronto-parietals, and the vomerine series is much reduced; in fact, it belongs 

 in all respects to the PalEearctic group. I have not examined younger speci- 

 mens, but have no doubt they are like those of the Palsearctic ; the latter, then, 

 in their young stage, are precisely of the type of the Jithiopian Rana, with 

 fasciculate teeth like the young of those of the same region with teeth in se- 

 ries, since the prefrontals are still more reduced, becoming linear. Finally the 

 first stage of the Nearctic Rana, after losing the larval tail, is the genus Ra- 

 nula, having linear prefrontals, minute vomerine teeth, and the ethmoid ring 

 cartilaginous above 



These points of structure are of generic quality, but I have not regarded any 



*I refer to H. carnea m., not having Reinhardt and Lutken's type of this genus. 



[Oct. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 247 



group as sufficiently defined to be so regarded, except Ranula, as the adults of 

 some species appear not to be constant in possessing them. Thusaverj- large 

 Rana catesbyana sometimes exhibits prefrontals in contact en the median 

 line, while it is difficult to say whether R. a r e o 1 a t a of North America is of 

 the Nearctic type so much as of the ^Ethiopian. Nevertheless the groups are 

 generally quite geographically restricted. 



3. A similar relation exists between the genera Hyperolius, Staurois and 

 Heteroglossa in respect to the prefrontal bones and the separation of the outer 

 metatarsi, and — 



4. Between Ixalus, Rhacophorus and Polypedates also, in reference to vo- 

 merine teeth, bifurcation of last phalange, and dermoossification of the cra- 

 nium. 



5. When the larvje of certain species of Spelerpes possess brauchife, thev 

 also lack one digit of the hind foot, also the maxillary, nasal and prefrontal 

 bones, and exhibit a broad continuous palatopterygoid arch, in close contact 

 with the parasphenoid. The prootic is separated from the exoccipital by a 

 membranous space, and the exoccipitals themselves are not yet united above 

 the foramen magnum. There is at the same time a series of splenial teeth. 

 Both ceratohyals are confluent, the posterior is present, and there are but 

 three superior hyoid arches. After they lose the brancliia?, the hinder foot, 

 which has four toes only lor a time, gradually adds another at first rudimental 

 digit, in the Mexican species ; in most North American species the fifth digit ap- 

 pears at an early larval stage. Five digits are finally present in all Spelerpes. 



We have thus four combinations of the above characters, at different periods 

 of the life history of certain (but not of all) of the species of Spelerpes, There 

 exist four permanent series of species or genera, equivalent to these stages. 

 The well-known " perennibranchiate " Nectnrns is nearly identical with the 

 first, Batrachoseps with the second, the half-toed Spelerpes with the third, and 

 the typical Spelerpes is the last. 



In one character of generic value only, do I find that Necturus differs from 

 the early larval Spelerpes. It closes the premaxillary fontanelle with which 

 it commences, by an approximation of the premaxillary spines, but not by a 

 sutural union, as takes place in Amblystoma. It thus, in this one point, ad- 

 vances a stage beyond the condition to which Spelerpes attains, though it 

 maybe a question whether such a closure without union should not be classed 

 among the specific characters by which N. maculatus differs from the young 

 of the various Spelerpes, as they do from each other. Characters of the latter 

 kind are the following: in N. maculatus the frontals are more deeply 

 emarginate behind; it has little or no ala on the inferior keel of the caudal 

 vertebne, which is prominent in Spelerpes larvoe. 



It may be that the parallelism in the case of Spelerpes is inexact by one 

 character, and that a strictly developmental one ; or it may be regarded other- 

 wise. 



6. It is well known that the Cervidre of the old world develope a liasal snag 

 of the antler (see Cuvier, Ossem. Fossiles ; Gray, Catal. Brit. Mus.) at the third 

 year; a majority of those of the New World (genera Cariacus, Subulo) never 

 develop it except in "abnormal" cases in the most vigorous maturitj- of the 

 most northern Cariacus (C. virginianus); while the South American 

 Subulo retains to adult age the simple horn 'of the second year of Ceivus. 



Among the higher CervidjB, Rusa and Axis never assume characters beyond 

 an equivalent -of the fourth year of Cervus. In Damathe characters are on the 

 other hand assumed more rapidly than in Cervus, its third year corrosjionding 

 to the fourth of the latter, and the development in after years of a broad plate 

 of bone, with points, being substituted for the addition of the corresponding 

 snags, thus commencing another series. 



Returning to the American deer, we have Blastocerus, whose antlers are 

 identical with those of the fourth year of Cariacus. 



1868.] 




248 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



Now, individuals of tlie genus Cervus of the second year do not belong to 

 Subulo, because they have not as yet their mature dentition. Ruga, however, 

 is identical with those Cervi whose dentition is complete before they gain the 

 antlers of the fifth year. When the first trace of a snag appears on one beam 

 of Cariacus virginianus, the dentition includes the full number, but there 



remain _ milk molars much worn and ready to be shed. Perhaps the snag is 



3 



developed before these are displaced. If so, the Cariacus is never a Subulo, 

 but there can be little doubt that the young Blastocerus belongs to that genus 

 before its adult characters appear. 



7. Leidy states* that certain Perissodactyle remains containing a foot of a 

 horse, contained the teeth of a genus, Merychippus, which has the per- 

 manent teeth of Equus, and the deciduous dentition of Anchitherium. He 

 observes " the deciduous and permanent dentitions of both these genera are 

 alike, therefore the new genus is in early life an Anchitherum, and later in life 

 a true horse." This is therefore a case of exact parallelism, always providing 

 that the Merychippus has not added to its immature Equine chai-acters, others 

 in other parts of the body, which invalidate the indentity. In the latter case, 

 it will still be an interesting example of the " inexact parallelism." 



8. It is well known that the Cephalopoda form a number of series of re- 

 markable regularity, the advance being in the first place in the complication 

 of the folds of the external margins of the septa, and in the second place in the 

 degree of involution of one or both extremities of, the shell to the spii'al ; third, 

 in the position of the siphon. 



Alpheus Hyatt, in an important essay on this subject,! points out that the 

 less complex forms are in many cases identical with the undeveloped condi- 

 tions of the more complex. He says : " There is a direct connection between 

 the position of a shell in the completed cycle of the life of this order, and its 

 own developement. Those shells occupying the extremes of the cycle " (in 

 time), " the polar forms, being more embryonic than the intermediate forms. { 

 The first epoch of the order is especially the era of rounded, and, in the ma- 

 jority of the species, of unornamented shells with simple septa ; the second is 

 the era of ornamentation, and the septa are steadily complicating ; in the third 

 the complication of the septa, the ornamentation, and the number of species, 

 about twice that of any other epoch, all combine to make it the zenith of de- 

 velopement in the order; the fourth is distinguishable from all the preceding 

 as the era of retrogression in the form, and jiartially in the septa. 



" The four-periods of the individual are similarly arranged, and have com- 

 [larable characteristics. As has been previously stated, the first is rounded 

 :ind smooth, with simple septa ; the second tuberculated, and the septa more 

 complicated; the third was the only one in which the septa, form and orna- 

 mentation simultaneously attained the climax of individual complication ; the 

 fourth, when amounting to anything more important than the loss of a few 

 ornaments, was marked by a retrogression of the whorl to a more tabular as- 

 pect, and by the partial degradation of the septa." 



I will here quote an entirely antagonistic statement of Bronn's,| as follows : 

 In the developmeait of Lamellibranchiate molluscs "it is not possible to esti- 

 mate the successional changes of one genus by those of another, though nearly 

 related ; so diverse are the most significant relations in the manner of progress 



* Proceed. Acad. Nat. Sci., 1858, p. 7. 



f Memoirs Boston Soc. N. Hist, 1806, 193. 



1 He adds here: "Although in regard to geological sequence and structiTral position 

 one of the extremes must be of higher geological rank." The "/uV/Ztesr' extrenie will be 

 of higher geologicai rank according to the complexity of structure and length of develop- 

 mental scale, whether it come at the middle or end of the history of the class in time. If, 

 us has V)een the case so far as known, a decline has terminated the history of a class, its 

 later forms are zoologically lower than its older ones. Hence the adjective /tiV/ft is only 

 appropriate to types of the latter kind, when used as synonymous with extreme. 



<! Classen u. Ordnungen des Thierreichs, iii, 445. 



[Oct. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 249 



among nearest allies. Therefore emlnyologic indications are through out use- 

 less in classification, and it is necessary to lieep carefully separate the state- 

 ments of observations on development of a given species, and not transfer 

 such facts to the history of another species for the purpose of completing it. 

 We cannot even range these histories in conformity with family groups." For 

 us this statement, though no doubt largely true, is an indication of imperfec- 

 tion, first, of knowledge of true affinities of recent, but especially of extinct 

 adults, and second, of imperfection of knowledge of development. The posi- 

 tion appears to be based on negative evidence, while the opposing can and 

 does stand on nothing but positive. 



/?. Examples of (he inexact parallelism.. 

 1. The genera of the Batrachian family Scaphiopodidte form a series of steps 

 differing a little more than as repressions or permanent primary conditions 

 in the development of the highest.* Thus two of the genera, which are North 

 American, maintain their tul)ie eustachii and tympanum through life, while 

 three European lose them at an early period. The three European genera also 

 advance beyond the larval character of the American in the ossification of the 

 basis of the xiphisternum into-a broad style. Thus we have two series estab- 

 lished, which differ only in the two characters named. Each shows its devel- 

 opmental steps iu a similar manner, the European series extending further; 

 thus, — 



European. North American. 



1. Temporal fossa over arched. 



Cultripes. * * 



Temporal roof not ossified. 



2. Fronto-parietal bones ossified, involving 



derm. 



Pelobates. Scaphiopus. 



3. Fronto-parietals ossified, distinct from 



derm. 



* * (Unknown.) * * 



4. Fronto parietals not -ossified, distinct 



from derm. 



Didocus. Spea. 



In this case Didocus cannot be said to be identical as a genus witli an un- 

 developed stage of Cultripes, since while the cranium of the latter is iu tlie 

 condition of Didocus it bears a long tail, and the limbs are but little developed. 

 Nor is Didocus identical with the undeveloped condition of Pelobates, since 

 both cranium and limbs of the latter are developed before the tail is absorbed. 

 Nor is Pelobates identical with the undeveleped condition of Cultripes, since 

 while the cranium of the latter is that of the former, the limbs and tail are still 

 larval. The same relations exist between the other members of the family. 

 The genus Scaphiopus is not an undeveloped form of Pelobates as to its audi- 

 tory organs, for when the latter is identical with the former in this respect, it 

 bears otherwise entirely larval characters. Nor is Spea an arrested Scajihio- 

 pus, the relation being here precisely that between Didocus and Pelobates. 

 Spea approaches more closely an arrested Didocus in all respects, but that 

 when the latter posesses the auditory apparatusf of the former, it is a larva in 

 limbs and tail, and that it loses this apparatus before reaching the other 

 characters of Spea. Tne relations of these genera, as compared with those of 

 the Trachycephalus, Cystignathid;e and Bufu series, may be represented as fol- 

 lows : the lines represent the developmental scale of each. 



* See Journal Academy, 1800, on Arcifera. 



tThe possession of caVum tympani and tuba Eustachii in tlie undeveloped condition of 

 this genus is only assumed from its close relation to Pelobates. 



J According to"Brucli and Tschudi in Pelobates. I have found traces of the eustachian 

 diverticula in a tailed Pelobates f us cus, whoseT&ody measured 1 in. 4 liu., from Mus. 

 Peabody Institute, Salem, Mass. 



1868.] 17 




250 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Relations between the terms of 

 tlie ditFerent series. Heterolo- 

 gy or Remote Parallelism. 



.S '^ 



'at d 



This is an example of the simplest case of 

 inexact parallelism, as distinguished from the 

 exact parallelism or identity. As the fauna 

 of the present period is but a fragment, so the 

 simple inexact is a more frequent relation 

 than the exact, while the more complex in- 

 exact relation is still more common. The 

 greater the inexactitude, the more frequently 

 do such parallels occur, till we have those 

 of the most remote character, as, for instance, 

 the parallelism between the different stages 

 of the development of the mammal, in the 

 structure of the heart and and origins of the 

 aorta, and the existing classes of vertebrates. 

 The relation of these facts to the origin of 

 genera will be noted hereafter. 



It will be borne in mind that in the Sca- 

 phiopodidfe the generic types are identical 

 for a long portion of their developmental his- 

 tory. 



2. In both Perissodactylous and Artiodac- 

 tylons Mammalia, certain types develoj) their 

 family character of canines at the earliest ap- 

 pearance of dentition, others not till a com- 

 paratively late period of life (Equus), and 

 the extreme genera never produce tliem. 



3. Among Cetaceans the genus Orca main- 

 tains a powerful and permanent series of 

 teeth, which is an important generic charac- 

 ter. In Beluga the series is shed in old age, 

 in Globiocephalus, or the Caing whales, they 

 are shed at middle age, while in the Bala-nidas, 

 of which the absence of teeth is an essential 

 character, these organs are developed and ab- 

 sorbed during fcelal life (Eschricht). Thougji 

 the condition of the teeth is not of system- 

 atic value in the two named intermediate 

 genera, it is the important feature in the his- 

 tory of progress to such value. 



4. Among the tortoises, the Testudinidffi 

 rapidly extend the ribs into a carapace, which 

 fits closely the marginal bones, while equally 

 early in life the elements of the sternum unite 

 together. This is also the case with most Emy- 

 dida' ; among whose genera, however, we find 

 the transitional scale. In Dermatemys and 

 Batagur the carapace is very late in attaining 

 its complete ossification, while the plastron is 

 early finished. In Chelydra, on the other 

 hand, while the carapace is even more slowly 

 developed, the plastron is never free from its 

 larval fontanelles. In the marine turtles 

 neither plastron or carapace is ever com- 

 pleted, while in the Trionychidfe the marginal 

 bones are also entirely undeveloped. 



In order that this last illustration be a true 

 (jne for the theory in question, as apjilied to 

 the families, these developmental characters 



[Oct. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA, 251 



should be the true distinctive features of these families respectively. This, 

 as is well known, they are not. The CheloniidEe are characterized by the 

 form of their anterior limbs, which is in an adapted structure, while the Tes- 

 tudinidse similarly are distinguished by an extreme opposite modification of 

 foot-structure, adapted to an extreme difference of habit. Here there is an 

 example of the co-working of both laws. Nevertheless, we only claim at pre- 

 sent to show the developmental relation oi genera of the same family and the 

 same series. This we see among the Emydid;c. 



5. In the important character of the scutcllation of the tarsi among the 

 Passerine birds, the "boot" appears early in life in the highest Oscines, later 

 iu the lower, and does not appear at all in the majority. lu respect to the still 

 more important feature of the long posterior plates which appear very early in 

 most Oscines, in the Myiadestes type* they appear late, th ' squamaa remaining 

 long, while the Clamatores never develop the plates, not advancing beyond the 

 infantile squamous stage. 



6. It has been shown by Falconer that the genera of great Proboscidians 

 form a remarkably regular and graded series, distinguished by their denti- 

 tion. These are Dinotherium Kaup, Trilophodon Falc.,f Mastodon Cuv., 

 Pentalophodon Falc, Stcgodon Falc, Loxodon F. Cuv., and Elephas Linn. 

 In the first there are but two cross crests on the third molars, and a pair 

 of permanent mandibular tusks ; in the second, three cross crests and man- 

 dibular tusks only permanent in some males ; in the third, four cross crests 

 and the mandibular tusks all deciduous; in the fourth, five cross crests 

 on the third molar; tusks unknown. In Stegodon the tusks cease to ap- 

 pear, the crests of the third molar become more numerous, and embrace 

 between them, in the bottoms of the valleys, a strong deposit of cementum. 

 In Loxodon the crests have the whole interspaces filled with cementum, while 

 the same thing holds in Elephas, with a greatly increased number of cross 

 crests, which beconfe vertical laminae. The laminar character has become 

 apparent from its rudimental condition in Stegodon. 



Now these are stages of development, though not in a continuous, single line. 

 The shedding of the inferior tusks takes place earlier and earlier in the genera 

 from Dinotherium, till they never appear in Stegodon. The molar teeth, it is 

 well known, present, as they succeed each other from back to front, a regu- 

 larlj^ increasing number of transverse crests in the same species. Thus, in 

 Trilophodon ohioticus the first molar presents but two, while the last 

 presents six. The last molars of other genera present a very much increased 

 number. What is it then, but that the increased number of crests in the third 

 molar, definitive of these genera, is an acceleration of growth ; the fourth 

 in Trilophodon is structurally third in Mastodon, and the fourth of Mas- 

 todon being third in Pentalophodon, the fourth of Pentalophodon becoming 

 third in Stegodon, and so to the end ? This is confirmed from the proven fact of 

 the disappearance of the premolars. They are fewer in Trilophodon| than in 



♦B.aird, Review Birds N. America. 



tThe genus Mastodon, as left by Cuvier, embraced two genera, as has been clearly shown 

 by that excellent pala?antologist, the late Dr. Falconer. He named these genera Trilopho- 

 don and Tetralophodon. It appears to us that this was unnecessary, as he was aware 

 that Dr. Godm.an had named the American Mastodon Tetraeaulodon from its sometimes 

 persistent inferior tusks, a rharacter distinguishing it from the Liter genera of the series 

 though not so trenchantly as the three crests of its third molar, as pointed out by Fal'. 

 coner. As this group was taken from the Cuvierian Mastodon, it should retain Godinan's 

 name, for the T. ohioticus, the T. a n g u s t i d e n s and T. h u m b o I d i i, while Cuvier's 

 name should be preserved for the remainder, viz., M. 1 o n g 1 r o s t r i .s, M. b o r s o n i, M. 

 a r V e rn e n s 1 s, etc., the Tilralophodtms of Falconer. 



JThe two-crested and first three-crested molars are usually called milk molars, because 

 early shed. As, however, they are not succeeded by any subsequent teeth, but are simil.ir 

 to those which lie behind them in the jaw, I cannot see why they are not true premolars. 

 Dr. Warren, in his monograph of Mastodon ohioticus, says " This is called the third 

 deciiluous tooth, but why it ia more entitled to this epithet than the two which follow it 

 would be difficult to determine. Are not the first and seeond .so-called permanent teeth 

 equally deeiduous, since they are shed, and leave the last permanent molar solitary '" 

 V. p. 6!). Flower says (Transao. Royal Society, 1867. C38), '-.In the Dugong and in Iheex- 

 isting Elephants the successional process is limited to the incisor teeth." 



1868.] 




252 PEOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Dinotherium, and soon shed; they are also early shed in Mastodon and Stego- 

 don (insignis Falc. Caut.) and are not known to exist in the succeeding 

 types ; the acceleration of succession of teeth has caused them to be entirely 

 omitted. The young tooth of Elephas moreover is represented by a series of 

 independent parallel lamina? at first, which, when they unite, form a series of 

 crests similar to the type of the genus Mastodon and others of the beginning 

 of the series. The deposit of cementum takes place later, till the valleys are 

 entirely filled up. Thus the relations of this part of the tooth structure in the 

 series are also those of the successional growth of those of Elephas, or the ex- 

 treme of the series. 



It would be only necessary to show that two distinct conditions in any of 

 these respects occurred among the different individuals of the same species of 

 any of these genera, to render a hypothesis of evolution a demonstrated fact. 



It must be here observed that great size indicates little or nothing as to 

 zoological rank. It merely indicates the expenditure of a large amount of 

 stored vegetative force in the individuals of the group, however limited, which 

 exhibits it. The greatest species are often not far removed in affinity fiom the 

 least ; thus there can be but little doubt that Elephants are not far removed 

 from the Rodents, and the Rhinoceros is near the Cony. Indeed, in the same 

 genus the most extraordinary diversity prevails, for we have a very small Ele- 

 phant of Malta, and in the Miocene of Maryland a fin-back whale not so large 

 as the new-born young of the fin-backs now living. Hence Prof. Dana's ob- 

 jection* to the developmental hypothesis, based on the great size of the 

 primal Selachians and Ganoids, has but little weight. 



7. Rathke has shown that the arteria ophthalmica of the higher Ophidians 

 is originally a branch of the arteria cereb'ralis anterior, and that it later forms 

 a connection with the arteria facialis. This connection increases in strength, 

 while the other diminishes, until finally its supply of blood is derived from the 

 facialis instead of the cerebralis. 



Rathke has also shown that the cerebral origin of this artery is continued 

 through life in the three lowest suborders of the serpents, the Scolecophidia, 

 Catodonta and Tortricina; also in the next succeeding group, the Peropoda. 



8. In most serpents the left lung is never developed ; in such the pulmonary 

 artery instead of being totally wanting, remains as a posterior aorta bow, con- 

 nected with the aorta by a ductus botalli; serpents without left lung being 

 therefore identical in this respect with the embryonic type of those in which 

 that lung exists. 



9. Dr. Lespes states that the optic region of the brain of blind cave Coleop- 

 tera, examined by him, is similar in structure to that in the blind larvce of 

 Coleoptera, whose images possess visual organs. 



f 10. Those Saurians, (Uromastix, etc.,) in which the preraaxillary region 

 is produced into a uniform cutting edge, are furnished during early stages 

 with a series of premaxillary teeth, which become gradually fused and con- 

 fluent with the alveolar margin. Hence other Acrodonts are equivalent, in 

 this respect, to the j'oung of Uromastix, etc. The same thing occurs among the 

 Scaroid and Labroid fishes. In this most natural family we find the ma- 

 jority of generic forms provided with a normal complete dentition ; in others 

 (Chaerops, Xiphochilus, Pseudodax, etc.,) the lateral teeth are gradually and 

 normally replaced by a more or less cutting edge of the mandible ; and finally, 

 in the Scarina and Odacina the entire mass of teeth and jaws are coalesced, 

 forming a beak with sharp cutting edges, the single teeth being still visible in 

 the true Scarus, while they have entirely disappeared in adult Pseudoscarus 

 and Odax.J Thus in dentition the adult Scarus is identical with not fully 

 developed Odax ; Chaerops with the teeth less confluent, equals a still younger 



♦Manual of Geology, p. 



+ See under section on acceleration and retardation. 



X Giinther on Hatteria, Philosophical Transactions, 1867, II. I had already noticed the 

 peculiar development in Uromastix, but not published it. 



[Oct. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 258 



stage of Odax, while those with distinct teeth are the same in this point as 

 the embryos of the highest — Odax, etc. I venture to predict that here will be 

 found a long series of exact parallelism, in which the different genera, resting 

 exclusively on these dental characters, will be found to be identical generically 

 with the various stages of the successively most advanced. 



11. Professor Agassiz states that the absence of ventral fins is characteristic 

 of an embryonic condition of the Cyprinodont fishes. The genus Orestiag 

 does not progress beyond this stage in this one point. Probably the genus 

 will be found which will only differ from Orestias in the presence of ventral 

 fins. If so, Orestias will be identical with an imperfect stage of that genus, 

 if, as will probably be the case, the fins appear in the latter, after other struc- 

 tures are fully completed. 



yj. Parallelism in Higher Groups. 



It is not to be anticipated that the series of genera exhibiting exact parallel- 

 ism can embrace many such terms, since comparatively few stages in the de- 

 velopmental condition of the same part in the highest, would bring us back to 

 a larval condition, which, as far as we yet know, has no exact parallel among 

 existing genera. But it is to be believed that the lowest terms of a number 

 of the most nearly allied of such series, do of themselves form another series 

 of exact parallelisms. 



Thus exact parallelism between existing genera of mammals ceases with all 

 characters which are larval or foetal only prior to the assumption of the adult 

 dentition, since among the higher mammalia at least we know of no genus 

 which, however similar to undeveloped stages of the higher, never loses the 

 milk dentition. It is nevertheless an important fact that, among smooth 

 brained mammals, or many of them, but one tooth of the second series ap- 

 pears; and inasmuch as smooth brained forms of the higher orders have be- 

 come extinct, it is not too much to anticipate that a type of permanent milk 

 dentition will be found among the extinct forms of the same high orders. 



As an example of exact parallelism in series of series, I select the follow- 

 ing : 



1. in the Batrachian family CystignathidEe there are six groups or sets of 

 genera. In the highest of these we have an ossified cranium and xiphisternum 

 — i. e. in the Cystignathi; in the Pleurodemae the cranium is not ossified, thus 

 representing the Cystignathi while incomplete ; in the Criniaj the xiphister- 

 num is cartilaginous, as well as the fronto-parietal region, being an equiva- 

 lent of a still lower stage of the Cystignathi. From this simplest type we can 

 find a rising series by a different combination of characters ; thus the Cera- 

 tophydes add an osseous cranium to the incomplete xiphisternum, while two 

 succeeding groups diverge from each other at the start, the Pseudes loosening 

 the outer metatarsus in their development to maturity, while the Hylodes add 

 by degrees a cross-limb to the last phalange. The Ceratophrydes and Criniae 

 are stages in the development of these, but neither one of them is a step in 

 the development of the other. They are measured by adaptive characters 

 purely. 



2. The whole suborder of the Anurous Batrachia, to which the above family 

 belongs, the Arcifera, differs from the suborder Raniformia by a character 

 which distinguishes a primary stage of growth of the latter from its fully de- 

 veloped form. That is, the Raniformia present, at one period of their devel- 

 opment, a pair of parallel or over-lapping curved cartilages, connecting the 

 the procoracoidand coracoid bones, which subsequently unite and become a 

 single, slender median, scarcely visible rod, while the bones named expand 

 and meet. The first condition is the permanent and sole systematic character 

 of the Arcifera.* 



* This may be readily understood by comparing my monograph of the Arcifera, Joiun. 

 Ac. Nat. Sci. Phil., 1866, with Duges work, or Gegenbaur & Parker's memoirs on the shoul- 

 der girdle. 



1868.] 




254 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Objection. — It mar be objected by those who have observed some of these 

 develoj)mental relations, that they are exhibited by certain single structures 

 onl}', and not by whole organisms. These objectors must not forget that the 

 distinctions of those groups, whi( h alone we have in one geological period 

 in a relation of near affinity, exist in single characters only ; and that it is 

 therefore infinitely probable that the higher groups, when we come to know 

 their representatives with the same completeness, will prove to be separated 

 by single characters of difference also, 



3. The following table is here introduced to illustrate the relations of groups 

 higher than the preceding. This is largely measured by the circulatory sys- 

 tem, not only as to the class relations, but also as regards orders. In its less 

 central portions it is, however, definitive of families at times.* [The reader is 

 here referred to the table commencing on p. 256.] 



If the reader will compare the history of the development of vertebrates of 

 any class or order, as those of Teleosts and the lizard by Lereboullet, of the 

 snake and tortoise by Rathke and Agassiz, and of the bird and mammal by 

 Von Baer, he will find the most complete examples of the inexact parallelism 

 of the lower types with the embryonic stages of the higher. A few points are 

 selected as examples, from the histories included in a few of the columns of the 

 table, and given at its end. 



Similar parallels may be found to exist in the most beautiful manner be- 

 tween the adult anatomy and structure of the urogenital apparatus within 

 each class of the series taken separately, as indicating ordinal relationship. 

 This department is, however, omitted for the present. 



As an example' of the homologies derivable from the circulatory system, and 

 of the use of the preceding table, I give the following relations betweea the 

 types of the origins of the aorta. f 



The single ventricle of Teleostei is no doubt homologous with that of Lepi- 

 dosteus, and that of Lepidosiren. The arleria vesicx nalatoripe, which is the 

 homologue of the A. pulmonalis of air breathers, issues in Lepidosteus from 

 the last vena branchialis, thus receiving aerated blood from the gills In Lepi- 

 dosiren it issues from the point of junction of two gilless and two gill-bearing 

 vense branckiales, thus receiving mixed blue and red blood, or blue blood 

 altogether, when the branchiae are not in functional activity. In Proteus it 

 issues from the last vena branchialis, where it receives the ductus bolalli of the 

 preceding vein, which, when the gill is inactive, becomes a gilless aorta-bow, 

 which brings it'onl}' carbonized blood, which it readily aerates in the swim 

 bladder, now become a lung. The ventricle is homologous with the preced- 

 ing. In Salamanders, where the substitution of the accessory gill arches by 

 the ductus botalli, converts the arterix and veme. branckiales into " aorta-bows," 

 the A. pulmonalis is given off from the posterior bow, and receives henceforth 

 mixed blood. In the Anura the origin is the same but nearer the heart. In 

 Gymnophidia it approaches the heart so far as to issue from the extremity of the 

 bulbus arteriosus, which is now divided by an incomplete septum, one half 

 conveying blood to the aorta roots, and the other to the A. pulmonalis. This 

 septum was already preceded by a longitudinal valve with free margin in the 

 Anura ! As if to meet the coming event, a trace of ventricular septum 

 appears at the apex within. There can now be no question of the homology 

 of the ventricles of the gar, and of the Ciecilia. But we have next the true 

 Reptilia. The Bulbus arteriosus is split externally, as it already was inter- 

 nally, but it is first represented in most Tortoises by an adherent portion, one- 



*This sketch is not nearly complete, but is published in hopes of its being useful to 

 students. It is compiled from the works of Meckel, Rathke, Barkow, MuUer, Hyrtl, 

 Briicke, Stannius and others, in connection with numerous dissections. 



t Professor Agassiz (Contrib. Nat. Hist. U. S., I 285) states that the ventricle of the Tes- 

 tudinata " is not any more identical with the one ventricle of fishes, than with the two 

 ventricles of warm blooded vertebrata; for in fishes we find only one vessel, the aorta, 

 arising from it, while in Turtles both the aorta and arteria pulmonalis start together from 

 it." We think this statement, which, if true, is destructive to the asserted homologies of 

 the circulatory system, cannot be substantiated, for the reasons above given. 



[Oct. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 255 



half being the now, to this point, independent arteria pidmonal is hnd the otlier 

 the nearly split aorta roots. There can, I think, be little question of the exac- 

 titude of the homology throughout. 



It is no less certaiu that the Salamander* fulfils in its development the dif- 

 ferent stages to its permanent one, and is identical in each stage, in respect to 

 this point, with the orders it represents at the time. This is true even of the long 

 period during which it bears the long branchial appendages and contained 

 arteries and veins which are not found in fishes ; it is then like the Pro- 

 topterus, which has hyoid venous arches and appendages of those arches 

 at the same time. The Tortoise -\ and Tropidonotus, J are also identical in 

 their successive stages with the tj'pes already enumerated, the external or 

 appendicular branchial vessels being omitted as belonging to the special serial 

 development of the line of air-breathing Anallantoidans. Tlie division of the 

 bulbus arteriosus into three instead of two may indicate a case of inexact par- 

 allelism, but on the other hand it may be that the pulmonary partition is com- 

 pleted a little before the aorta-root partition, thus passing through the Batra- 

 chian permanent type. For explanations of inexactitude see under Part 11. 

 No doubt the Batrachian type of bulbus arteriosus is passed by many serpents 

 less extreme and specialized than the Tropidonotus. 



The aortic and pulmonary divisions of the bulbus in the Cfecilia are not 

 laterally placed, but one is dorsal and the other ventral, the one passing a 

 little spirally to the right of the other. So the pulmonary division of the 

 bulbus turns over to the right in the Anura. When the septum of the true 

 reptiles appears it rises on the anterior wall of the ventricle till it is seen in 

 Eunectes to meet the partition between the arteria pidmonalis and aorta-roots, 

 and we have at once the right and left ventricles of the bird and mammal 

 structurally and functionally. Thus are the two ventricles of man the same 

 as the one ventricle of the fish, merely divided by a septum.^ 



In the fissure of the aortic bulbus in the reptiles a spiral turn is again given, 

 and in Testudo the one aorta-root issues behind the other. In the Crocodile 

 the turn is still greater, and the right aorta-root issues to the left of the left 

 root, and vice versa. In the birds we have lost the left root, and parallelism 

 ceases with this change. In the mammalia the right root turns to the left, 

 so that in the comparison of these classes the rule of Von Baer above quoted 

 is true ; no mammal at present known is identical in a foetal stage with any 

 fully grown bird, but with a foetus of the same, up to a certain point. But 

 for both classes the parallelism of those below them holds true. 



But it is with the exact parallelism or identity of genera that we have to do 

 in the present essay. That being established, the inexact parallelism between 

 the modern representatives of higher groups, follows by a process of reduc- 

 tion. 



S. The extent of parallelism. 



Prof. De Serres and others have stated it as their belief that the lower 

 " branches " of the animal kingdom are identical with the undeveloped ibrms 

 of the higher; i. e. that the mollusc and articulate are not merely parallel 

 with, but the same as the lower conditions of the vertebrate. The works of 

 various embryologists as Von Baer and Lereboullet, have shown this state- 

 ment to be erroneous " and founded on false and deceptive appearances." The 

 embryos of the four great branches of the animal kingdom appear to be dis- 

 tinct in essential characters, from their first appearance. But Lereboullet, who, 

 in his prize essay, has compared with care the developm»nt of the trout, pike, 



* Amblystoma. f Agassiz. X Rathke. 



g Asassiz, 1. o., denies the homology of the ventricles of the turtle .ind mammal, but it 

 appears to me erroneously. He says : " The fact that the great blood vessels (aorta and 

 art. pultnonalis) start together from the cavum venosum seems to prove that the two cavi- 

 ties in the heart of turtles, which are by no means very marked, do not correspond to the 

 two ventricles in mammalia and birds." 



1868.] 




256 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



O O 



c-S 



feSfl 



e 5 



a^ o 

 cos 



O K 

 St 3 







t; " S 





J3 O S >> 



« cs 2 

 o ■»:' P ? 





S 



s o 3 o ci 



S5 



(B o a 



; o ^ "S 



^21 



3 c — • 



0^ ,x 

 C O 



CCL, 





o o ,-; 



0,0.! 



CO.; 



"oo. 

 P S 



o o 



1^5 



<s 





. 3t3 



ooo 

 ■5-5-5 cs. 



(3 3 





SB 



H 03 c« 



£-3 5. 

 o^«1 



* o § 



WW 



a-= o 



or* 



0) o 



•J P C3 



S3 a =3 



J 0.-2 



[Oct. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



257 





oi a 3 



flj P O O 



fc-l MB 



•eg 



£6_ 





S - s t; o .-s S 



J c o B a c 3 



-^ C~ O ^ •-; 



CO cs ^ C r- 9 



l^ c s S y 



, .^ ^ - o 



2 P "^ c o^ 



-«<; ^ c « =*. !- 



J .^ C ■— ^ .• eg 



o. ^~; c s o 



tS 60S (13 



J- cf. a n 



S = 



^ ^ £ a ■-■ 



; a; o a a 



a»goj 



<N"^ 



s <u oj a 

 >■ c © 



£_-$SSa5 



a a— ^ (I' 



'dj ■*J-S-a 



J c.<p 



o o 



< Ph 



=2S 



o 5 



= "5.2 



c « o. 



o =; m 



« g 53 





1868.] 



.,J?-3 Si-d 



Sioa 



.^; 'S -2 a i 



S s o. 






258 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



&>3 



oQ 



..SJ= 



o ® o 



U o-o 



a> 10 >■ " 



CUy3 g 



. S 







' 0; ^ q; 



. .St) 





w^d 



<u a) Co 



o S^ 





C c8 ,/ 



mn 



So'^'^B 





■^- o;:: fto 



g c -s 





;.Sg_.„ 



tiC?S 

 5 M 3 y;.g5 



.»J o 



a.' .-t: 





03 S 



2-5 



„ 5 'J^r, — 



o o- 





T3 -o 0) "^ iS .2 



0-1 ~ 



"» S"^ 



r^ S „ b-^ 



<ii o^ MW d 



= - c " S -k.-" 





f, O ro 



S 2i3- ^= a 



s ^ s o "^ .q 



£3^, 



® c 2 o ,-j- ® 



-E O rH M C3.Q 





^. O 03 2 



d m 



js d 



5= O > 

 a;' — 





O K 



— © ••H 





<o o 



&^ 



fr.-5 



[Oct. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



259 



"-a 



is 



2 S =5 =3 =5 



; .sT g .S 2 i S 'S * .; 



-■5 ^ rt o 



s§ 



c = i^ K k- o 2 



" ;: !_• s n rs 1 



c o 



^ t. c3 



: cj o t:; 

 j .2 'S. &-• - '^ 



jnTJrSr C 3 o 







O " • 



"So =: 



C £ 3 « 



tH o 



>i° I 





03 <BX! 



cJ-C 



£« 



■? S 



Cu -^ 



P . 



? 2 





^ •: c " 



o S c <c s 

 ■d . c .-2 5 . 



II <r. ri 





; c c3 



) o o 



C ® 



s^ 



^ 3 es 



3-g 



^ ;•£ C 



>-ffi3 

 O 6C 



§S"g^- 



o 



«"§ I 



P5 c 



.s==s 



g-i'So g^S -^ 



S2 



i 5 -^ 





!r <" 0) ^ 



> a, 



> t, t» 



-gg.S.5 ^ 



ti— ji 





" CI 





S »^ o 



1868.] 



■2 S-^ 



3 3 2.; 



s 3"E.': 




260 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



9 V S Ml'- 



"o.b 



S 2 



g i^ eg fH 



£ •Co—' 



IS 3 33 .• 

 :: ^ 0; g 



s§ 



iS ^ Xi 



-2 =« 



m o ^ 

 Sea) 



'<:'SSS 



^■2 



.3 -^ 



S rt 9^ S 



??Sg 



g J2 



•- «o 

 5 •<-' ?5 



a o-a 



3l« a S 5 ih'S 

 :^ " . 0^ - 





<u S „ 



"i s s ' 

 S &.<" . 



Co 5- 

 ^-o g 



9 .-M 3 a 

 ■< <j « o o 



rt '-^ S 



O c3 ? 



£ « o 

 o g^ 



■-c^S 



O tS 



d 



-..s a ■ 



Oj'S 



a cs 





a ° 



cs g 



2 2 



S 03 



« o a 



•S =3^ 



B =8 : 



So£^ 



. a o o 



■S a; o p 



sg 





£":o 



- b 3 



!"ia 





>> -Q « 



Pk w 



3W 



c3 ca 



3'^ 



S «! O ~ 



e« 



[Oct. 




NATUEAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



261 



g"03 



CO 



=* DX3 ,x c S S 





i; * P ^jy , 

 !§ P.M S " i 



•^ s .9 « § 

 £ c cs >: : 



■-'S.-- = 5 C 



^ ;:• _ 



^ 5 5 



P = S c> 2 H es 



- C 1^ • T C > 





. (n^ 



£ t; -. —i- m. 



-M Oj c i o^ 



O S ir. ■- "" 



■" ■^ 



.o S 



i« 



E-c o c p.- 



?=2 



« !- — 



y2 , 



'S p. o-ti 



Q .• -^ O) ^ '-J ^ -^ 



w S -^ a> ^ o y; 

 So! • 73 "S O "^ ■-' 

 c m o a> S .•"5 



2 "s 'S -2 fci ° -2 .5 



■■..a'oB.s'oSt'^ 





~tc 



;v.-3 



5 y — M 



i- o = o 



.S . ~ - a 



s s 



a ^-1 

 ~ 3 c- 



c O ;■ 



i -2 a a • S 

 ! c = 9, a a -a 



;.s.&°'-:a« 



^ K S 



= = = O -;S •« 





CU a ^ 



!S a 



g ~ SB rt 



r:i* 



i 5 "^ '^ J^^ 



1868.] 




262 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 





i:T! 





•'3 =" 



<! <! 



.S S '*'* -a 

 II "2 « S S 2 



g o "^ a ^ ^• 



S ^- oo "^ g 



CJ 5 >: « m 2 



■" £ (- 2 « 



c_ a a © 



C3 



— a. .- ^ == ~ 



, "■ « ■« r 



3-55 



>-' =?-^-ss = 



^ a t; 



, cS fc. (H 



0; a -^ a 

 . « oj a c3 



a-'^'o o a"" 6 



S o ^':= g 1^ =« 

 a>^ 03 — tK ;^— < 



V.o 



£.3 



O so 



i^ 



:s £ 



O U (hiJ 



Oo M 



613 





-^ 13 



o t>. 



M 3 



< 5 <; <i<i _• ■ 



o a 



■^ CU ° 0--5 

 a| ^ § S 



* a 



- !h c« a 2 



mHH 



' a o 

 -aM 



OW >^ 



? '3 «i 



[Oct. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



263 



■-2 = 5 



r. ^ 



£ .^^ 



■■ a a ^ -^ 

 ; « 2 5 



« so § 



«* >> — "2 



"CS. . 3 H 



a* c ct -3-a; 



00 . 5~^ ^12 



•S ^-a- 



C r^ ^ 



j; 5 o 



.■ c i s^ 1^ 

 '^ <t ;^ ai-d 



O - . C3 



^•ss 





.•:= bo 





£ * 





5; S^ 

 2s 



1868.] 





S-5 2 



■^ C 0; 



1= 3 




264 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



o a 2 

 jD o a 



J5 ^Ji" 



o £ g 



3 C 



■.fi ■ ** 



« o a 



. ■ a cs 



c fc o 



« c 2 

 cs £ ^ 



1,11' 





';3 I'-tS 



P.3T3 



a ® 9 

 .S (SCO 



B S >i 



P5 53-2 

 . ••■a 





3 O 



5 g 



- j3 ,' © 



^,^•5 . 



(3 CtH 



C c! _ O 



3 C 3).2 



TO 0'-3 ^ 



« £' S •=.■> 



CJ O > „^ 

 "E 3 !„ ? ^ 



t .2 O -uT 3 

 CO 3tct3 



: c3 c » 



> ^ o Q 

 J So"" 



Sin 



J3 E re 



1' O ;-, 

 'COO 



3" a 



3 > 



■2 2 



^^ 

 ■-5 c5 3 

 c g--^ 



W;S 





3« K^ 





-a cs 



ci cf, 3 3 



oj ; 3 t,::: 



£ » 





60.2 



St; so 





.2 S 



M 



"3 <ii 

 3 a 



t..3 



a 3 . 



3 3^ 

 .3 OJ cs 



u ° 



a£ 





3. = .2 



3 ^-a 



M 



^^ 



a.t3 



3 3 

 OSi-c 



.2 o-ca 



^o .2 3 



•3 50 



S fcOo! 



HH CO 



o ©^ 



ft, c 



3 



s O 



K s S c3 



6 c: S 

 <^iJ H 



o 3 ?> 



o g£3 



; s-^ 



5^ 3 



^ g 



o o? 



[Oct. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



265 



^3 





^^ 



C-o 



.so a.3 3 o 





03 o: 



2 aJ 



.S'3 



2C =s 



0) a, H 



■ 03 q; q 



CI -^ 





hO 





o - ' 



£ 2? 

 S'S. 

 ■a a> 



U"S 



5c| 



^-. 03 ^ 

 ffi re 

 CL, (S Oi — . 



■^ oi •' ^ 



<B 0) 



a) 



S 5- 



o -g.S 

 i:o.2 



— >» .3 D 





5 i;^ 1) C 



o -^ _ 

 a^-2 • 



■^ ^ c <D 



o c 2 s 



_5 C. ' 



3 S'S 



o . =J2-3 



o= 



1868.] 



H 



18 



P,3 




266 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



- c » ^ 



eg.. 



. . O 

 ^ > i3 





:^5 ^2 



-- _-0 O S 2 O i 

 li t> o f^ c -^ c • : 



: — — ^ c3 



• 03 • t. 

 0/ t" O 



Ct3 



•--2.S 

 cj - o 



="3 

 _c o 



CO dco cr 





sg 





bti 



03 



B c is !- 



i^V. CO S-* 

 ^-^03 w OS .;::: 







• >>§ 





S£ 



) o .g t, .5 o s ffi 

 ■ c *j o -^ o » a 



>,6 a 



d) Q.-T3 



■5 o S 





OS" 



o C d ^T * 



t- O t- OS 



O t- o mi;- 



; l" t, C C 



'E 5 







i-i o m e 

 O ^ E^ 



a . a;n:73 



ri,£ C3 O (S 



M) 



O o! 



i=E 



© >; o 



Eh C (U 



. ^^ o 



p. ID 



C CO 



e-1 



o S pa g-c 



5 ©"or 



0.0 



pi3<: cliO oKoo" 



[Oct., 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 267 



and perch of the Teleosts, with that of a Lacerta among reptiles, has failed 

 10 point out characters by which the embryos of the two vertebrate classes 

 essentially differ, for a considerable period. It is true, that as each and all of 

 the species belong to widely different generic series, parallelism is of the kind 

 to be called inexact or remott. But enough is known of embryology and pala'- 

 ontology to render it extremely probable that the historic predecessors of 

 the types whose embryology Lereboullet studied, formed a series of parallels of 

 the kind termed in this essay exact. 



Lereboullet states that a certain difference exists between the eggs of the 

 fishes and those of the Lacerta. This is for us merely stating that the parents 

 of the embryos differ, a fact which no one will contest, the same may be 

 said of the elerated or depressed character of the surface of the vitellus on 

 which the embr^vo reposes, 



Secondly, after the appearance of the embryo the Lacerta is furnished 

 with the amnios and allantois, the Teliost not. This is certainly neither a 

 generic, ordinal nor class character of the adult, for it is but temporary ; 

 therefore in generic, ordinal and class characters the embryos of the Teliost 

 and Reptile are still identical. It is a physiological character and not mor- 

 phological, and therefore far the less likely to be a permanent one, eyen in 

 embryos, under changed circumstances. The female of one of the species of 

 Trachycephalus inverts the skin of the back at one season of the year to re- 

 ceive her eggs, because she cannot lay them in the water ; the other species of 

 the genus do not. The next genus in direct morphological line possesses a 

 single species whose female does the same for the same reason ; but the rela- 

 tions of these species and genera are zoologically the same as though this 

 modification did not occur. Many such instances will occur to many natu- 

 ralists. It is not pretended that they are as important as the presence of the 

 allantois :, but they constitute a character no doubt similar its kind, and en- 

 tirely at the service of the needs of the great system of morphological suc- 

 cession. The same may be said of the vascular area of the Reptile. 



Lereboullet concbides his summary of the differences between the Teliost 

 and Reptile, up to the period of completion of the heart, by saying " It is easy 

 to perceise that all these differences, however important they may appear, are 

 constituted by the accessorj- organs of the eaabryo, and do not modify the 

 "development of tlip latter, which progresses in reality exactly as in the fishes.'' 

 He says the same preriouslj^, as to the relation ef the same to the bird and 

 mammaJ- 



We have then in the embryos of the lower vertebrates at a certsJn time in 

 the history of each, an " exact parallelism " or identit;/ with tlie embryonic 

 conditioii of the type which progresses to the next degree beyond it, and of all 

 the other types which progress successively to more distant extremes. 



We have, however, so far, every reason to suppose that the embryos of the 

 •other branches of animals nes^er present au enact parallelism with tho&e of 

 .the vertebrata. 



The embryo of the fish and that of the reptile and iKammal may be said to 

 be generically if not specifically identical up to the point where preparation 

 •for the aerial respiration of the latter appears. They each take different lines 

 at this point. The fish diverges from the course of the rejitile and proceeds 

 to a different goal- the shark dees the same, but proceeds a shorter distance, 

 while the Dermopter scarcely leaves the poiist ef departure. No doubt there 

 iiave been types which never left this point, and whose plan &r circul'Uori/ si/stem 

 as identical with that ef the embryo Reptile and Mammal. Such c l?fpe was only 

 (fenerically different from the reptile or mammal which had only taken the succeeding 

 ■step, provided other structures were n^tsuper-added. 



By consparing the development of types of different classes in certain features 

 which are only ordinal or generic in meaning, very erroneous conclusions may 

 foe reached \>y the inexact student, as to the want of parallelism of classes t* 

 each other. Thus Rathke says of the development of the eye of the Tri?pi- 



1868.J " ^ ." 




268 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



donotus at a certain period, that it is far in advance of that of the mammal at 

 the same stage. Here, says the objector, is a case where their parallelisms do 

 not coincide; the mammal is really similar to a younger stage of the Reptile, 



But, in fact, the size of the eye is but a generic or family character ; if the 

 development of the lemur had been compared with the snake, ihe mammal 

 would have liccn found to be in advance ; if the mole, much farther behind. 

 If the snake selected were the purblind Atractaspis, almost any mammal would 

 have been in advance ; if, on the other hand, the great eyed Dipsas, but few 

 mammalia would have been parallel to it. 



In a word, to find exact paralUlism it is necessary to examine the closest 

 allies. 



It is also of first importance to distinguish between the ez/s^e?ice of generic or 

 higher characters, and their condition under various circumstances of individual 

 life. If a foetal or larval character be conserved through the adult life of a 

 type, it will be of course adapted to the functions of mature age. Thus the 

 undeveloped character of the horns of the genus of deer, Rusa, are not accom- 

 jianied with the marks of individual youth of the corresponding stage of Cer- 

 vus; its individuals are fully grown and funclivnal/i/ ^eviect. The species of 

 Hyla are not small and incapable of self preservation and reproduction, as is 

 the corresponding stage of Trachycephalus ; they are functionally developed. 

 The student need not he surprised, then, if, when identity or exact parallelism 

 is asserted, he finds some diflerences dependent on age and adaptation, for if he 

 be an anatomist he need not be informed that a morphological relation consti- 

 ttites types what they are, not a physiological. 



II. 0/ retardation and accelerati&fi in generic characters. 

 First. Of adult metamorphosis. 



The question has necessarily arisen — have these remarkable relations between 

 genera resulted from an arrangement of distinct generations according to a 

 permanent scale of harmony, or have the same genetic series of individuals 

 been made to assume the different positions, at the same or different periods of 

 the earth's history.* 



Prof. Marcelde Serres proposed the theory of repressions of development to 

 account for the existence of the lower groups of animals as now existivg, an 

 error easily exposed, as has been done by Lereboullet in his various important 

 embr3'ological writings. But little observation is sufficient to prove that a 

 mammal is not a shark where it has five gill arches or aorta bows, nor a batra- 

 chian where it has three, or a reptile where it has the two aorta-roots. This 

 has been already sufficiently pointed out by Von Baer, who says there is 

 " Kein Rede," of such a theory as was afterwards proposed by de Serres. 

 Thus are true the rules propounded by this author. f 3. "Each embryo of a 

 given animal tyi)e, instead of passing through the other given animal found, 

 diverges still more from it." 4. " In the basis, therefore, the embryo of a 

 higher animal type is never identical with an inferior type, but with the em- 

 bryo only of the latter " 



* Some naturalists .se^im to imagine that tlie demonstration of tlie existence of interme- 

 diate types IS only necessary to establish a developmental hypothesis. Thus Dr. Dohrii 

 (Ann. IVIagaz. N. Hist., 1808), writing of his discovery of that most interestins; genus Euge- 

 reon, vviiieh combines (diaraeters of Neuroptera with those of Hemiptera, dues not iiesi- 

 tate to say that it proves tlie truth of Darwin's theory. Now it appear.s to me that a dem- 

 onstration of the existence of a regularly graduated succession of tj'pes from the monad to 

 man, would be only tlie m nor of a syllogism without its major, in evidence for develop- 

 ment, so long as tlie proof of transition of one i^tep into another is wanting; and the idea 

 that such H discovery could establisli a developmental theory is entia'ely unfounded. 

 Indeed tlie reasoning in which some indulge — if we dare so call the spurious article — 

 based on this premise alone, is unworthy of science. The successional relation of types, 

 though a most important element in our argument, has been long known to many who 

 give no sanction to the idea of developinent. 



t Entwickelungsgeschichte, 224. 



[Oct. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 239 



I think that I have already made some progress in proving that the near or 

 true generic relationship is one of absolute developmental repression or 

 advance. Paleontology shows that families and orders, as now existing, were 

 preceded in time by groups which are synthetic or comprehensive, combining 

 the common characters of modern generic series. This process of synthesis 

 must, it is obvious, if continued, result in the near approximation of the single 

 representatives of the now numerous and diverse groups There is every reason 

 to believe that a baclvward view tlirough time will show this to have prevailed 

 throughout the vertebrata and other branches, as we already can in part jjrove. 

 And I have no doubt that the synthetic tj'pes. which represent modern orders, 

 have existed in a generic relationship subordinate to the plan of the synthetic 

 class, and that the latter have existed as genera only, of the type of the great 

 branch. This is not ideal. We only have to look to our extinct ganoids, 

 Archegosaurs, Labyrinthodonts, Compsognathus, Archaiopteryx, Ornitho- 

 rhynchus, etc., to realize these facts. 



The first genera then formed a scale of which the members were identical 

 with the undeveloped stages of the highest, and each to each according to 

 their position. 



Such a series of antitypic groups having been thus established, our present 

 knowledge will only permit us to suppose that the resulting and now existing 

 kingdoms and classes of animals and plants were conceived by the Creator 

 according to a plan of his own, according to his pleasure. That directions or 

 lines of development towards these ends were ordained, and certain laws ap- 

 plied for their realization. That these laws are the before-mentioned law of 



RETAKDATION AND ACCELERATION ; and law of NATURAL SELECTION. 



The first consists in a continual crowding backwards of the successive steps 

 of individual development, so that the period of reproduction, while occurring 

 periodically with the change of the year, falls later and later in the life his- 

 tory of the species, conferring upon its offspring features in advance of those 

 possessed by its predecessors, in the line already laid down partly by a 

 prior suppression on a higher platform, and partly as above supposed, by 

 the special creative plan. This progressive crowding back of stages is not, 

 however, supposed to have progressed regularly. On the contrary, in the de- 

 velo[)ment of all animals there are well-known periods when the most impor- 

 tant transitions are accomplished in an incredibly short space of time, (as the 

 passage of man. through the stages of the aorta bows, and the production of 

 limbs in Batrachia Anura;) while other transitions occupy long periods, and 

 apparently little progress is made. 



The rapid change is called metamorphosis ; the intervening stages may be 

 called larval or pupal. The most familiar examples are those which come 

 latest in life, and hence are most easily observed, as in the insects and frogs. 

 When, during the substationai-y period, the species reproduces, a constancy 

 of type is the result; when the metamorphosis only appears at the period of 

 reproduction a protean type is the result ; when the raeiamorphosis is crowded 

 back to an earlier period of life, then we have another persistent type, but a 

 new genus of a higher grade than its predecessor. 



In reviewing many examples everywhere coming under the eye of the natu- 

 ralist, it is easy to perceive what would constitute a plastic and what a con- 

 served condition of generic, or even of specific form. 



As one or more periods in the life of every species is characterized by a 

 greater rapidity of development (or metamorphosis) than the remaimler, so in 

 proportion to the apj)roximation of such a period to the ejioch of maturity or 

 reproduction, is the offspring liable to variation. During the periods corres- 

 ponding to those between the rapid metamori)hoses the characters of the genus 

 ■would be preserved unaltered, though the period of change would be ever 

 approaching. 



Hence the transformation of genera may have been ra])id and abrupt, and 

 the intervening periods of persistency very long; for it is ever true that the 



1868.] 




270 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



macrocosm is a parallel or rejietition of the microcosm in matter and mind. 

 As the development of the individual, so the develoiiment of the genus. 

 We may add — so the development of the whole of organized beings. 



These metamorphoses may be fitly compared to those in the molecular con- 

 stitution of matter. The force of cohesion belvreen the atoms of a vapor 

 steadily increases with descending temperature, and in a regular ratio, till a 

 given point is reached, when a sudden metamorphosis to a denser, or liquid 

 condition takes place. Nor have we reason to believe, with regard to many 

 substances, that there is any parallel relation between the temperature and 

 the molecular constitution before or after the metamorphosis takes place. 

 So the temijei'ature continuing to descend, the molecular character of the 

 liquid remains unchanged until the vis conservalrix suddenly giving way at the 

 ordained point, a solid is the result. Thus while the change is really jirogress- 

 iiig the external features remain unchanged at other than those points, which 

 may be called expression points. 



Now the expression point of a new generic type is reached when its appearance 

 in the adult falls so far prior to the period of reproduction as to transmit it to 

 the offspring and to their descendants, until another expression point of pro- 

 gress be reached. 



Thus a developmental succession does not so obliterate the lines drawn 

 around nature's types as to render our system ineffectual as an expression of 

 them. 



The successional acceleration or retardation in metamorphosis may be best 

 illustrated in the cases selected above, by the following tables. These are 

 taken, it will be remembered, from the Bufonida? and Hylid»e as examples of 

 " exact parallelism ;" three are now added from the Rauida3 and Discoglos- 

 sidte. The case of ''inexact parallelism" is that of the Scaphiopodidas. 



Whether they are cases of acceleration or retardation can only be deter- 

 mined by reference to the i)ala;ontology of the respective groups, or a careful 

 comparison of times of metamorphosis. In the case of the Discoglossidse I 

 suspect it to be retardation, as the highest genus is extinct. The others I 

 shall arrange with them for temporary convenience. Were I dealing with a 

 group of Ganoids, I should imagine the process to be retardation, as this 

 group is going out of existence. On the other hand, were they higher 

 Oscine birds we might imagine the case to be reversed. 



TABLE I. 



Series No. 1. No. 2. No. 3 



BombJnator..Hyla Epidalea. 



Alytes* 



Discoglossus 



Sey topis Bufo sp. 



Osteocephalus Bufo sp. 



Latonia Trachycephalus.... Peltaphryne- 



* Aparotoid gland of small size is added here, but is not generic as compared with Bom- 

 biaator, as the latter has collections of crypts on the same region and over the body. 



[Oct. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



271 



TABLE IL 



3" ^ -- 



a £.0 



] 



I Ixalus. 



Rhacophorus. 



Polypedates. 



j No vom. teeth: 

 ■< Sometimes '' 

 I Always " 



53; 



Points not attained. 



5^ 5 



<-. -^ 



1868.] 



Death 



Hatching, 




272 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



In the preceding diagrams each horizontal column represents the life history 

 of the individuals of each genus. Tlie line of dots, stars, etc., represents 

 the same developmental stage of each, as it appears earlier or later in the life 

 of the individuals. The point of crossing the breeding period is that at 

 which the character is rendered permanent. When the change falls on this 

 period the character is not generic, as in Ixalus, Tab. II. The period of losing 

 the tail, like that of breeding, is represented as occurring at nearly the same 

 time in the history of every genus, as it is generally seasonal. Yet this is not 

 always so, and like the other characters has most likely had its period of 

 shifting. Compare diiference of time of development, for instance, of the 

 frontal and prefrontal bones in Tabs. I. and IV. The comparison of the adult 

 stages of the less developed genera, at the tops of the columns, with the 

 larval conditions of those more fully developed, may be traced in the absence 

 of characters which appear in the latter. I have convinced myself of the 

 accuracy of the above relations by the examination of many skeletons and 

 wet pref)arations of adults and larva?. 



The tables* are representations of nature, and not ideal sketches. It is to 

 be noted as remarkable, that the advance throughout so many diverse groups 

 is in the same direction, viz., to complete or excessive ossification of the cra- 

 nium ; and this identity of progress might be readily shown by adding other 

 characters, were it not thai? the tables would become too complex for con- 

 venience. 



Has any such transition from, genus to genus ever been seen to occur? 



It must of course take place during the life of the individuals of a species, 

 and probably at different times during the lives of different individuals, de- 

 pendent on their relative vigor. In our view, ordinary metamorphosis is such 

 a change, and we have stated its bearing in this form, that '' every character 

 distinguishing suborders, families and genera is to be found among the indi- 

 viduals of some species, living or extinct, to mark new varieties or stages of 

 growth." 



cL. The developmental relation of generic to specrfic characters. 



For the relation of the law of retardation and acceleration to specific char- 

 acters we will look to development again. While the young of Trachycepha- 

 lus are successively different genera, they preserve most of their specific char- 

 acters so as not to be mistaken. Agassiz says of the development of the 

 North American turtles, f "I do not know a turtle which does not exhibit 

 marked specific peculiarities long before its generic characters are fully devel- 

 oped." The same thing can be said of the characters of our salamanders, 

 whose specific marks appear before their generic, or even family characters. 

 I suspect that this will be found to be a universal law. 



It also follows, if a developmental process, as proposed, has existed, 

 that at times the change of generic type has taken place more rapidly than that of 



* Notes on the tables. — I. I characterized a genus Zaphrissa (Journ. A. N. S., 1866) from 

 the Braunkohle (miocene) of Prus.sia, as different from Latonia, on the ground of the 

 presence of a fontanelle in the exostosed frontoparietal bone.s. This combination of 

 characters is very improbable, and appeared so at the time ; but the appearance of the 

 specimen is quite clear in this respect. I think, however, it must be the result of injury, 

 and that the roof has tieen partially carried away. 



Tab. II. Polypedates is here restricted to P. maculatus and P. quadrilineatus. The 

 other species are referred to Rhacophorus, which has not hitherto rested on any proper 

 basis; the asserted character — the palmation of the hands- being one quite graduated 

 from species to species among Hylse. Chiromantis, Peters, is referred to the same, as its 

 character is not strongly marked and is visible in other species. For similar reasons 

 Leptomontis is referred to Ixalus. 



Tab. IV. In each of series II and III two series are mingled for the sake of comparing 

 the structures of the prefontal bones. Thus Heteroglossa, Staurois, Hylorana and Try- 

 pheropsis are one series, and Hyperolius and Hylambates members of another. 



t Contrib. N. Hist. United States, I., p. 391. Note. 



[Oct. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 273 



specific* and that one and the sam^ species (if origin be the definition,) has, in the 

 natural succpssion, existed in more than one genus. 



Apart from any question of origin, so soon as a species should assume a 

 new generic cliaracter it ceases, of course, to be specifically the same as other 

 individuals which have not assumed it. If supposed distinctuess of origin be, 

 howevei-, a test of specific difference, we shall then have to contend with the 

 paradox of the same species belonging to two dift'crent genera at one and the 

 Same time. 



It follows, therefore, in our interpretation of nature, tliat groups defined by 

 coloration alone are not to be regarded as genera, as is done by some orni- 

 thologists and entomologists. They are simply groups of species in which 

 distinctive generic characters had not appeared up to the period of repro- 

 duction. Inasmuch as in development certain specific characters appear first, 

 among them part or all of the coloration ])attern, it is obvious that the latter 

 do not belong to the generic category. The employment of such characters 

 then, in this sense, is only to commence reversing the terms generic and 

 specific, and to inaugurate the process of regarding each species as type of a 

 separate genus. 



(i. Of probable cases of transition. 



Thus the transition between the toothed and edentulous conditions in Ceta- 

 cea takes place in the ordinar}- growth of the individuals of the genus Glo- 

 biocephalus, and the transition between the ossified and non-ossified types of 

 Clielonia occurs during the life of the individuals of the genus Dermatemys. 



But in attempting to demonstrate this proposition we must bring forward 

 facts of another kind. The anti-developmentalists are accustomed to put 

 such changes aside, as part of the necessary history of established types ; hence 

 ■we will not appeal to such. 



1. The frog Ranula affinis, of South America, was described by Peters 

 as probably a climatal variety of European Rana temporaria. In this 

 he is supported by the fact that the specific characters do not differ more 

 than would characterize it as a local variety, were it an inhabitant of Europe. 

 But I have found that it differs generically in the non-ossification of the 

 ethmoid boue, as has been confirmed by Steindachner, and represents an 

 embryonic condition of the same bone in Rana. It is in fact an undeveloped 

 Rana. That this is a true genus is confirmed by many specimens, by an addi- 

 tional species (R. palmipes), and by the fact that the allied genus Trypher- 

 opsis, embracing three species in the same region, differs in the same way from 

 the otherwise identical genus of the Old World, Hylorana. 



2. The South African Saurians Chama?saura a n g u i n a, and Mancus m a- 

 c r o 1 e p i s, are very closely allied in specific characters in all respects, though 

 distinct. They have one important ground of generic distinction; the latter 

 has one pair of limbs less than the former. They are rudimental in CiiamiC- 

 saura, and the disappearance in Mancus is but another step in the same di- 

 rection. The difference in specific characters is of much less degree. 



3. In the genus Celestus there are numerous species, which range from a 

 slender, snake-like form with weak limbs, to stouter, strong-limbod forms with 

 a more saurian build. Among these the Haytian C. ph oxin us is well dis- 

 guished by form and coloration. An allied genus from the same region is 

 Panolopus, which in specific characters approaches the 0. p h o x i n u s very 

 closely, much more so than any Celestas (one sijecies possibly excepted). But 

 in generic characters it is distinguished by the loss of all its toes and the non- 

 separation of nine plates on the end of the muzzle. The genus Diploglossus, 

 on the other hand, occupying a superior place on account of the division of 

 the frontonasal into three, is, in specific characters (of D. m o n o trop i s) much 



I * See Proceedings Academy, 1807, p. 86, where I observe that generic characters are 

 probably less inherent than specitis. 



1868.] 




274 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



closer to the stout Celesti than the species of the latter genus are among 

 themselves. 



4. The Gronias nigrilabris is a Silurid, which in specific characters 

 more nearly resembles the Amiurus lynx, than the latter does the A.albidus 

 and many other species of the genus. The A. lynx is found in the same 

 streams. The important generic character, the absence of eyes, is, however, 

 its constant feature (in three specimens known to naturalists, others to fisher- 

 men). 



5. The Cinclidium granulatum, a large tree toad of Brazil, resembles 

 in all its characters the Centrotelma g e og ra p h i c u m. The specific differ- 

 ences between them amount to almost nothing, but both sexes of the former 

 grow larger and are furnished with a generic peculiarity in the addition of 

 some phalanges to the thumb. 



6. The Auk Sagmatorrhina s n ckl ey i Cass, is stated* to resemble in phimage 

 and all its characters the Ceratorhyncha m o n o c e r a t a, as to be not distinguish- 

 able, even as a varietj^ from it, except by the striking generic characters. In 

 the latter a concave bone-like process rises from above the nostril, and an 

 accessory piece is found in the symphysis mandibuli, both wanting in the 

 genus Sagmatorrhina. 



7. The Oporornis agilis Baird, a North American bird of the Tanager 

 family, resembles very closely in form, color and habits, the adjacent species 

 of the adjacent genus Geothlypis. While its specific characters are thus very 

 close to Geothlypis tephrocotis, it differs in the generic feature of a longer 

 wing. By this it is associated, and properly so, with another species, 0. 

 f o rm s u s, which has the general color and habits of species of Myiodi- 

 octes (M. c a n a d e n s i s), the next related genus. 



8. The following fact I give on the authority of Prof. Leidy, who will pub- 

 lish it in his forthcoming work on the extinct mammalia of Nebraska, etc. 



Three species of Oreodon occur in the miocene strata; they are a larger, a 

 medium and a small sized species. In the Pliocene beds above them they are 

 represented by three species of Merychyus, which are in all respects known, 

 identical specifically with the three preceding. Each one may thus be said to 

 be more nearly allied to the species of the other genus than to its fellow of the 

 same genus, in specific characters. But each, on the other hand, diff"ers from 

 each in generic characters. The teeth of Merychyus are more prismatic, have 

 longer crowns and shorter roots, approaching the sheep, as Oreodon does the 

 deer.f 



9. The North American Centrarchoid, Hemioplites simulans, in specific 

 characters is most closely allied to the Enneacanthus guttatus Morris.* 

 It has however one or two distinctive specific features, but it difi'ers as to genus 

 in having one less dorsal spine and one more anal spine, characters in the direct 

 line of succession of genera to Centrarchus and Hyperistius. Now the lack 

 of one of its dorsal spines is not an uncommon variation in the Enneacanthus, 

 but the anal is never known to change. There is, however, apparently no 

 reason, as far as physical causes are concerned, why it should not tend to 

 vary as much as the dorsal. The lack of this tendency constitutes Hemio- 

 plites, a genus distinct from Enneacanthus, at the present time. 



* By Coues Monograph of Alcidee. Proc. Acad. Phila., 1868, p. 34. 



t This phenomenon suggests an explanation on the score of adaptation, which the other 

 cases do not. The existence during llie later period of a tougher material of diet, would 

 increase the rapidity of wearing of the crown of the tooth, and require a longer crown 

 and greater rapidity of protrusion. This necessitates a diminution of the basal shoulder 

 and shortening of the roots, producing the pris^matic form aforesaid. The deer browse 

 on forest foliage, which is more tender, while the C'avicornia graze the grasses, which 

 contain, as is known, a greater amount of silex ; hence the more rapid attrition of the 

 tooth. 



This may have been the case with the two extinct genera; the different periods during 

 which they lived may have seen a change from forest to prairie. (It is not intended to 

 insinuate that the species of the two genera are necessarily of the same or any given 

 number.) 



[Oct. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 275 



Those naturalists (who are nbt a few) who will be disposed on this account 

 to deny generic rank to Ilemioplites, will have, on the same grounds, to unite 

 each succeeding step till they embrace the " series," and no doubt at the same 

 time belie a considerable amount of their own work already done. 



10. The Coreopsis discoideaT. and G , var. anomala Gray, is much more 

 nearly allied to Bidens frondosa than to other species of its own genus, 

 and the latter is nearer to it than to other species ©f Bidens. It differs chiefly, 

 if not altogether, in the generic character : the barbs of the achenia are di- 

 rected upwards ; those of the Bidens downwards. 



From these and many other such instances it may be derived : That the 

 nearest species of adjacent genera are more nearly allied in specific characters than 

 the most diverse species of the same genus. 



11. While Taxodium d i s t i c h urn and Glyptostrobus europajus, conifers of 

 North America and of Eastern Asia, respectively, are readily distinguished by 

 generic peculiarities of their cones ; in specific characters they appear to be 

 identical.* 



Confirmatorj' of this proposition is the statement of Parker :f " In tracing 

 out the almost infinite varieties of the modifications of any one specific type 

 of shelled Rhizopod, my friend, Prof. Rupert Jones and I found that li/<e va- 

 rieties of distinct species are much nearer in shape and appearance than unlike va- 

 rieties of the same essential species." (It is not unlikely that species should here 

 be read genus and variety species, though the latter may not fulfil the require- 

 ments in regard to distinctiveness observed among higher animals. In types 

 like the Rhizopod, forms of this grade may not be really differentiated. Their 

 enormous geographical range would suggest this, if nothing else.) 



Objection. — A class of objectors to the preceding explanation of the rela- 

 tions in question, will ascribe them to hybridization. They have already done 

 so to considerable extent among the Teleosts, (see the writings of Von Siebold, 

 Steindachner and Giiniher). That hybrids exist in nature will be denied by 

 none, but that they are usual or abundant is not a probable condition of a 

 creation regulated by such order as ours is. The tendency to modify in given 

 lines of generic series, if admitted, will account for many of the cases regard- 

 ed as hybrids by the above authors, for it is to be remarked in many cases how 

 the generic characters are strikingly affected, and are chiefly us(^ in guessing 

 at the parentage. This is among Cyprinidaa so much the case that their is 

 scarce an example of a hybrid between two species of the same genus brought 

 forward, but often between species of different genera. 



If any two forms should hybridize freely, the circumstance should prevent 

 their recognition as distinct species. 



7 Ascertained cases of transition. 



This naturally suggests that in accordance with the theory of acceleration 

 and retardation, a transition can take place in the life history of species. Have 

 we any means of proving this suspicion ? 



1. The genus Ameiva (Saurians of South America) has been composed of 

 species of moderate size furnished with acutely tricuspid teeth. Teius, on the 

 other hand, embraces very large species with the molars obtusely rounded 

 and of the grinding type. These genera are generally held to be well founded 

 at present. 1 find, however, that in Ameiva p 1 e i i, which is the largest species 

 of the genus, that in adults the greater part of the maxillary and mandibular 

 teeth lose their cusps, become rounded, then obtuse, and finally like those of 

 Teius. While young, they are true Ameivs. Strangely enough the A. p 1 ei i, 

 from Porto Rico, acquires but three such obtuse teeth when of the size of the 

 other (St. Croix) forms. In youth the teeth of all are as in other Ameiva;. 

 Here is a case of transition from one genus to another in the same species. 



* See Meehan, Proe. Amer. Ass. Adv. Soi. 1808. Newberry, Ann. Lye, N. Y., 18G8. 

 t Transae. Zool. Soc, London, ! SW, 151. 



1868.] 




276 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



2. Tn the important characters of tlie possession of brauchiEe, of maxillary 

 bones, and of ossified vertebrae, the tailed Batrachia presents a series of a ris- 

 ing scale, measured by their successively earlier assumption. Thus Salaman- 

 dra a t r a"' produces living young, which have already lost the branchiiB ; S. 

 maculosa living young with branchi.e ; Plethodou f produces young from 

 eggs which bear branchiae but a short time, and do not use them lunctionally ; 

 Desmognathns nigra uses them during a very short aquatic life ; D. f u sea 

 and other Salamanders maintains them longer, while Spelerpes preserves them 

 till full length is nearly reached. Finally species of Amblystoma reproduce 

 while carrying branchire, thus transmitting this feature to their young as an 

 adult character And it is a very significant fact that Spelerpes, which bears 

 branchiie longest, next to Amblystoma, is associated in the same zoological 

 region with a genus (Necturus) which differs from its fbur-toed Ibrni (Batra- 

 cliosepsj), in nothing more than the possession of the osseous and branchial 

 characters of its larva, in a permanent and rei)roducing condition. That this 

 is a genus, to be one day converted into Batrachoseps by an acceleration of its 

 metamorphosis, or that has been derived from it by the reverse process, I am 

 much inclined to believe. In support of this I quote tiie following examination 

 into the time of change of the species of Amblystoma from my essay on that 

 genus. § 



"The great difference between the different species, and between individuals 

 of the same species in this respect, may be illustrated by the following com- 

 parison between the size of the animals at the time of losing the branchiae 

 so far as known, and that to which they ultimately attain. 



Species. Size at loss of branchiae. 



In. Lines. 



A. jeffersonianum, 1 5-75 



A. punctatum, 1 10 



A. conspersum, 1 10-5 



A. opacum, 2 2 



A. texense, 2 1 



A. microstomum, 2 3-5 



A. talpoideur^, 3 (perhaps too large ) 



A. paroticum, 3 7-5 (not smallest.) 



"7 to 



(3 7 



A. tigrinum, -l ^ ^ 



{ 



A. mavortium. 



3 9-5 to 8 9 





 A. raexicanum, ? branchite persistent. 8 



The last s{)ecies, though not uncommon in collections, is not known to pass 

 through its metamorphoses in its native countrj', but reproduces as a larva, 

 and is therefore type of the genus Siredon of Wagler, Cuvier, Owen and others. 

 The larva of A. mavortium in like manner reproduces, but their offspring 

 have in the Jardin des Plantes and at Yale College undergone an early meta- 

 morphosis. || 



Here is a case where all the species but two change their generic chaiacters; 

 one changes them or not, according to circumstances, and one does not change 

 them at all. What are the probabilities respecting the change in the first set 

 of species ? 



* See Schreibers Isis, 1833, 527 : Koelliker, Zeitsclir. f. Wissensch. Zoologie, ix, 4l)4. 



■j- Baird Iconographic Encyclopfedia, Wyman, Cope. 



X See Cope, .Journ. Ac Nat. Sci., Phila., 1800. 



§ Proceed. Academy, 1807. 



li Through the kindness of Prof. Dumeril. I have received both larvae and adult of the 

 ppecies hero noted, and ob.^erved by liim. Tlie larva is as he states, Siredan lic/i'iioidcs of 

 Baird, while tlie adult is his Amblystoma ma vor t iu m, not A. tig r in uni (= /«?-(>/«//() 

 as also supposed by Dumeril. 



[Oct. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 277 



As vrc know from the expei-iments of Hogg, Dumeril and otbers that met- 

 amorphosis is greatly hastened or dehiyed by the conditions of temperature 

 and liglit, whai would not be the effect on such a protean species of a change 

 of topographical situation, such as the elevation or depression of the land ? 

 And f have no hesitation in saying that if the peculiarities of series of indi- 

 viduals of A. tigrinum and A. raavortiuiu, in the respects above 

 enumerated, were permanent, they would characterize those series as species, 

 as completely as any that zoologists are accustomed to recognize. For the 

 evidences on this head, see the discussions of those species in my raonogiaph. 



The experiments of Hogg above alluded to, are as follows, as given by him 

 in the Annals and Magazine of Natural History. 



He placed a number of impregnated ova of frogs in vessels arranjied at reg- 

 ular distances from the light, in a cave. The lessening degrees of light were 

 of course accompanied by a corresponding but much less rapid decline in 

 tem])erature. The resulting effects on the metamorphosis may be taliulated 

 as follows : 



Mo. day. (30° 5G° 53° 51° 



~3 n Eg^: Egg: ig^. e^. 



20 Larva free, * * * 



25 * Larva free, * * 



31 * * Larva free, Larva free, 



4 10 Larva very large, * * * 



'J'2 Metam. complete. Larva large, Larva large. Larva small, 



8 11 Metam. complete, * * 



28 Metam. complt. * 



10 31 Metam. comp. 



3. The reproduction of some species of insects before they complete their 

 metamorphosis is a well-known fact, and it is particularly to the point that, 

 in many -of them, some individuals do attain to their full development, while 

 the many do not. Westwood says,* " two British species of this family (the 

 Reduviida;), Prostemma g u 1 1 ul a and Coranus subapterus, are interest- 

 ing on account of their being generally found in an undeveloped state, the 

 latter being 'either entirely apterous or with the fore-wings rudimcntal, 

 although occasionally met with having the fore-wings completely developed. 

 '"1 think," says tipiuola, "that the presence of wingsand their development de- 

 pends on the climate," and in speaking of Oncocephalus g r i s e u s, he says 

 " the inrtuence of the northern climate appears to have arrested the develop- 

 ment of the organs 'of flight." It will be seen that I have referred elsewhere 

 that I have noticed that it is especially in hot seasons that certain species 

 acquire, while the circumstance noticed respecting the ordinary occurrence of 

 winged specimens of Microcoelia in the West indies is confirmatory of the 

 same opinion." 



4. It is now known that certain Orthoptera do not get through their meta- 

 morphosis in time for the period of reproduction, and hence never or in rare 

 instances only devclope more than a short distance beyond the pupa state. 



5. .My friend, P. R. Uhler, tells me of an example among Hemiptcra of 

 the genus Velia. The species V. r i v u 1 o r u m Fab., and V. c u r r c n s* of 

 Europe, are only distinguished by the developmental feature of the presence 

 of wings in one, and their absence in the other. Another species of the tropi- 

 cal region of the West Indies, Halobates a m e r i c a n u s Uhlcr, is furnisiied 

 with wings, while its individuals which occur abundantly in North America 

 have been generally supposed to lack them. Individuals, however, no doubt 

 occur whose developments is so far accelerated as to permit them to acquire 

 wings before the period of reproduction, since one such has been found by 

 Uhler. 



* Uhler informs me that Amyot's asserted color characters are not reliable. 



1868.] 




278 PEOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



These wing characters are in many cases generic, it appears to the writer ; 

 and the fact that they differ without corresponding specific differences, is 

 important evidence as to the origin of genera. 



6. The females of the Lepidopterous genus Tliyridopteryx never develope 

 beyond the pupa state, according to the same authority, before reproduction ; 

 they are reproducing pupiv, so far as the external characters concerned in me- 

 tamorphosis go. In other words, the latter have beau retarded, while the re- 

 productive system and others have progressed. Now generic characters are 

 seen in the first, not in the last. The influence of the males is sufficient to 

 pi-event more than a part of the offspring from being retarded in the same 

 manner. 



I have selected a few of this class of facts which have come before my 

 mind during the present writing, as drawn mainly from my own experience. 

 How many more of the same. purport could be found by search through the 

 great literature of science or in the field of nature, may be readily imagined. 

 1 have no doubt that the field of Entomology especially will furnish a great 

 number of evidences of the theory of acceleration and retardation, especially 

 among the insects with active pupie. 



Finally, having already stated the law according to which these pro- 

 cesses naturally take place, I quote the following significant language of 

 Hyatt in the above quoted essay on the Cephalopoda, as approacliing nearer 

 to the "law of acceleration and retardation," than any thing 1 have found 

 written. He says : 



" In other words there is an increasing concentration of the adult charac- 

 teristics of lower species, in the young of higher species, and a consequent dis- 

 placement of other embryonic features, which had themselves, also, previously 

 belonged to the adult periods of still lower forms." 



The preceding propositions have been formulated as follows ; a few addi- 

 tions being now made : 



I. That genera form series indicated- by successional differences of struc- 

 tural character, so that one extreme of such series is very different from the 

 other, by the regular addition or subtraction of characters, step by step.f 



II. That one extreme of such series is a ijiore generalized type, nearly ap- 

 proaching in characters the corresponding extreme of other series. 



HI. That the other extreme of such series is excessively modified and spe- 

 cialized, and so diverging from all other forms as to admit of no type of form 

 beyond it.J 



IV. That the. peculiarities presented by such extremes are either only in part 

 or not at all of the nature of adaptations to the external life of the type.^ 



V. That rudimeutal organs are undeveloped or degraded conditions of the 

 respective characters developed or obliterated in the extreme of the series. 



VI. That the differences between genera of the same natural series are only 

 in the single modifications of those characters which characterize the ex- 

 treme of that series. 



VII. That the relations of the genera of a primary series, are those of the 

 different steps in the development of the individuals of the extreme genus ah 

 ovo ( Von. Baer, Agassiz) (with sometimes the addition of special adaptive 

 features? ?) 



VIII. That the presence, rudiniental condition, or absence of a given generic 

 character can be accounted for on the hypothesis of a greater rapidity of de- 



* On Insects, II, 473. 

 t .St. Hilaire, Owen, Agassiz, Dumeril. 

 X Dana on Cephalization ; Leconte. 



? fiwen on Cetaeeri, Trans. Zool. Soc, Lon., 18G0, 44. Leconte onCarabidas, Trans. .4mer. 

 Pliilos. Soc, 185:j, 304. 



[Oct. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 279 



velopment in the individuals of the species of the extreme type, such stimulus 

 being more and more vigorous in the individuals of the types as we advance 

 towards the same, or by a reversed impulse of development, where the ex- 

 treme is characterized by absence or " mutilation " of characters. 



IX. And that as the character of tiie genus at the period of reproduction of 

 its species, is that which is perpetuated; 



X. So the character of the genus has been first inferior, then protean, and 

 then advanced, as the metamorphosis has been by a retrograde movement in 

 time, posterior to, at, or anterior to the period of reproduction. 



XI. That it therefore results that there is one primary structural type in- 

 volved in such a series of species, which is made to present at any given 

 period in its Geologic history that appearance of succession of genera or- 

 dained by Creative Power. 



/. On the origin of inexact parallel ism. 



The hypothesis can only be demonstrated ia case of exact parallelism. If 

 proven in these, it readily accounts for the cases of inexact parallelism, which 

 are of course in any single period vastly in the majority. First take the case 

 of simple inexact parallelism-. A series of individuals of the genus Didocus un- 

 dergo the metamorphosis of the cranial structure earlier and earlier in life, 

 commencing by completing the ossification of the perichondrium of the fronto- 

 parietal region in full age, until at last it becomes completed as earlj^ a^ the 

 period of reproduction. Heretofore the adult offspring have appeared during 

 a long period, invariably characterized by the larval cranium, but like now 

 producing like, this development springs into new power, and the offspring 

 ossify the cranial bones, tar earlier than their immediate predecessors ; in a 

 word, the genus Pelobates has been created ! At this state of progress Di- 

 docus is an undeveloped Pelobates. 



Let us, however, suppose the. "acceleration" of development of the crania! 

 bones still to progress. The character appears now soon after the ordinary 

 metamorphosis has been passed, and now a little before. The identity of Di- 

 docus with the undeveloped Pelobates is thereupon lost ! 



So may have been the relations between Pelobates and Cultripes. Peloba- 

 tes was probably onceddentical with the undeveloped Cultripes, but the same 

 acceleration has concentrated the characters more rapidly than the other 

 larval stages, leaving Pelobates behind. 



This I conceive to be the explanation of tliis relation : when the parallel- 

 ism is inexact by two steps, as in Spea to Didocus, by the obliterated ear and 

 ossified xiphisternum. The continued concentration of characters has been 

 carried to earlier stages till the identity exists in the adult state of neither one, 

 but at a period of larval life of both, shorth' preceding the adult period of the 

 lower. The- relations between the Amblystomid;e and Plethodontidie, which 

 I have elsewh.ere * pointed out, have probably had their origin in this way. 



If we attempt to prove the identity of the modern mammalian fa?tal circu- 

 lation with that of the modern adult fish, we may find nearly an exact parallel 

 in this respect, as it is the basis of class distinction ; but in other respects the 

 identity will not exist, rendering the parallel inexact or remote The structure 

 of the origins of the aorta is at one time identical with that of the shark, 

 with OBe exception — in the former but four aorta-bows appear together ; in the 

 latter five. In the former the first disappears as the fifth comes into being. 

 This is simply a continuation v>f acceleration. The first generalized representa- 

 tive of the iMammalia lost the first aorta-bow towards the latter part of its 

 growth, and became the next genus in advance of the selachian. The fact 

 that these bows do not appear exactly simultaneously, but rather successively, 

 renders it necessary that in a regularly shortening period of possession of 



* Jour. Ac. Nat. Scl, Phil., 1866, 100. 



1868,] 




280 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



liausitory clmracters, one such, as the existence of the first aorta root, should 

 vanish before the appearance of a permanent, the fifth, in the more specialized 

 types, where acceleration reaches its maximum. This is indicated by the fact 

 tliat in the Batrachia, where the acceleration has not attained so high a degree, 

 the first and fifth aorta-bows coexist for some time, though the first and second 

 disappear before maturity. 



So also with the splitiing of the bulbus arteriosus. As in the Batrachia, the 

 jiulmonaiy (/ttc/iis cowmvnis only is to be separated, the remaining bulbus is 

 divided by a long valve or incomplete septum, tracing the division of the 

 aorta roots.- In the serpent (Rathke), this division is so accelerated as to ap- 

 ])ear at nearly the same time as the septum of the pulmonary duct. In the 

 mammal, on the other hand, while the division of the aorta root takes place 

 as soon as in the last, the pulmonary septum is accelerated so as to appear 

 long before the first named. Heiice in the septa in the serpent, the singular 

 anonnily seems to present, of the mammal passing through the Batrachinn 

 stage while the serpent, a nearer relative, does not.* If, however, M-e take the 

 less typical serpent, we will find the aortic septum to appear a little later, thus 

 giving the Batrachian type, and if we reverse the order of time, so that the 

 succession becomes one of retardations, we will find the same known ratio 

 will bring us to an identity under all circumstances. 



This then is the explanation of the divergence and want of "exact parallel- 

 ism " which is observed in comparing the developmental histories of all types 

 rwt niosl close/'!/ allied. It has not, according to our theory, always been a diver- 

 gence, but was at a prior epoch in ea( h case a relation of" exact parallelism," 

 the lower type a rej)ressed higher; the foimer identical with one of the stages 

 of the latter. But the process which has produced this relation, continued, 

 has of necessity destroyed it, so that the exact parallelism has always been a 

 temporary relation, and one shifting over the face of the system. 



III. 0/ liigher groups. 

 First ; comparison of the coternporary. 



Having now admitted a developmental succession of genera, and second, that 

 this has progressed more rapidly at certain times in the earth's history than 

 any modification of specific forms, the hypothesis already broaclied nat- 

 urally comes up. lias such transformalion of types, generic or higher, takm 

 place in any degree simultaneously, throughout a great number of species? An 

 affirmative answer to such a proposition is absolutely necessary to its accep- 

 tance as expressing the phenomena exhibited by geological succession of types. 

 1-et us try to answer the question put in a closer form. Have the same 

 species been transferred from one geologic epoch to another by a change of 

 generic form ; and has not the genus been transferred from one epoch to 

 another under change of ordinal type ? and as a consequence the same species V 



As a reply, I propose to render the affirmative of the first of these questions 

 highly probable. 



Pahvontology only will be able to answer this question conclusively, though 

 as we have abundant evidence that the relations of species to genera and other 

 higher groups were the same then as now, we may look to the present status 

 as furnishing important evidence on the subject. We are turned at once to 

 the probable history of development in the separate zoological areas of the 

 earth's surtace. The question may l)e asked, Are the present zoological regions 

 on an equal plane as to the geologic relations of their fauna^, or are they re- 

 lated as the different subdivisions of a geologic period in time? 



I have on a former occasion asserted that the latter of these propositions 

 was trne.f 



*This i.« tlie way indeed in which it is stated by Ratlike, Entwickelungsgesehichte der 

 Natter p. ]i)4. 

 + Ou Areiferous Anura, Jonrn. Ac. Nat. Sci., 1800, 108. 



[Oct. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 281 



at. Of homologous groups. 



Naturally followiag the admissioa of a developmental succession of organic 

 beings, is the question of its relation to the different surfaces of land and 

 water on the earth. The following considerations bear on this subject. 



Among the higher groups of animals can be detected series " homologous " 

 on the same principle as the alcohols (? compound radicals) and their deriva- 

 tives ; and the component types of each can be, and have been in many in- 

 stances, shown to be "heterologous," as are the ethers, mercaptans, aldehydes, 

 acids, etc. Among Mammalia two partly homologous series have been pointed 

 out, Implacentialia and Placentialia ;* possibly such are the types Altrices and 

 Pracaeoces among Aves ; of a lesser grade in this class are the parallel series 

 of Pullastra; and Galliuaj; of Clamatores and Osciues. Among Tortoises I 

 have alluded to the Pleurodira as compared with the remainder of the order, 

 already parallelized by Wagler ; and of lesser grades, the series among Lacer- 

 tilia of Acrodouta and Iguania, parallelized by Dumeril and Bibron, and of 

 Teid;« and Lacertida3, compared by Wiegmann. I have discovered a full paral- 

 lelism between the Raniform and Arciferous Anura. It is carried out between 

 the Characiuiand a group of remaining Physostomous Fishes, perhaps not yet 

 well delined ; it is exhibited between the orders Diptera and Hymenoptera 

 among insects. None of these comparisons can be allowed, of course, without 

 the most searching anatomical and embryological analysis. 



This heterology is what Swaiuson and others called " analogy " as dis- 

 tinguished from affinity. It generally relates genera of different zoological 

 regions. Mimetic analogy, on the contrary, relates genera of the same region ; 

 it is a superficial imitation which has occurred to critical biologists, and is of 

 much interest, though as yet but little investigated. It has as yet been ob- 

 served in external characters only, but occurs in internal also ; it has been 

 accounted for in the first case by the supposed immunity from enemies arising 

 from resemblance to well defended types. No such explanation will, however, 

 answer in the latter case. I believe such coincidences express merely the de- 

 velopmental type common to many heterologous series of a given Zoological 

 " Region ;" this will be alluded to a few pages later. 



We naturally inquire, is there anything in the food, the vegetation, or the 

 temperature to account for this apparent diversity in the different regions ? 

 Are there not carnivora, herbivora, seed-eaters, insectivores, and tree climbers, 

 where game and grass, seeds and insects and forests grow the world over? 

 We answer undoubtedly there are, and these adaptations to food and climate 

 are indeed as nothing in the general plan of creation, for every type of every 

 age has performed these functions successively. 



(i. Of Heterology. 



This relation will be exhibited by a few examples from groups knowu to 

 the writer, commencing with the Batrachia Anura. 



Raniformes. Arciferi. 



External metatarsal free. 



Aquatic. Rana. Pseudis. 



Metatars. shovel. Hoplobatrachus. Mixophyes. 



External metatarsal attached. • r 



Feet webbed. 



Metatars. shovel. Pyxicephalus. Tomopterna. 



Arboreal ; vom. teeth. Leptopelis. Hyla. 



" no " " Hyperolius. Hyleila. 



Subarboreal. Hylambates. Nototvema. 



Feet not webbed. 



Terrestrial. Cassina. Cystignathua. 



" spurred, Hemimantis. Gomphobates. 



1868.] 19 




282 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



Comparing the genera in a general physiological sense we may parallelize 

 further. 



Aquatic, with digital dilatations. 



Heteroglossa. Acris. 



Arboreal; cranium hy-poiypedates. Trachycephalus. 

 perostosed. •'^ •' ^ 



" cranium free. T,, , ( Hyla. 



Rhacophorus. j Agalychnis. 



The same kind of parallels exist between the primary groups of the Testu- 

 dinata, as follows : 



Crtptodira. Pleurodira. 



Five complete pairs of boues across the plastron. 



Pleurosternidas. Sternothaeridse. 



Four pairs of bones across plastron ; not more than two phalanges on all toes, 



Testudinidae. Pelomedusidae. 



Three phalanges on most digits ; 



Zygomatic arch ; no parieto-mastoid. 



Emydidffi. Podocnemididse. 



Temporal fossa overroofed by parietal. 



Macrochelys. Podocnemis. 



No zygoma ; a parieto-mastoid arch. 



* * * Hydraapididae. 



If we compare the peculiarities 'of generic structure merely with reference 

 to their adaptation to the animals habits, we will see the following : 



Cryptodira. Pleurodira. 



Feet reduced for terrestrial progress. 



Testudinidae. Pelomedusidae. 



Feet normal. 



Anterior lobe of sternum moveable. 



Cistudo. Sternothaerus. 



Cinosternum. 

 Anterior lobe fixed. 

 Neck very elongate. 



Trionychidae. Chelodina. 



Neck shorter ; aquatic. 

 Temporal fossa open. 



Emydidae in gen. Hydraspididas. 



Temporal fossa over-roofed. 



Cheloniidae. Podocnemis. 



The parallels between the genera of the American Iguanidae and the old 

 world Agamidae are similarly quite close. 



Iguanid.*:, Agamid^. 



Abdominal ribs. 



^ Polychrus. ■ * * 



No abdominal ribs. 



Ribs greatly prolonged into a lateral wing. 



* * Draco. 



Ribs not prolonged. 



Arboreal types, generally compressed. 



A dorsal and caudal fin supported by bony rays. 



Basiliscus (no fern, pores) Lophura (pores.) 

 No vertebral fin. 



[Oct. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 283 



No femoral pores. 



Form slender, scales in Calotes. 1 Lsmanctus. 



equal series, Broncuocela. J 



Form elongate ; eyebrows 

 elevated, tail compress- 

 ed. Gonyocephalus. Ophryoessa. 



Form stouter, scales less 



regular; Hypsibates. Tiaris, 



Femoral pores. 

 Low crested ; small 



hyoid disk. Brachylopbus. Diporophora. 



High crested ; large * 



byoid disc. Iguana. Physignathus. 



Tail with spinous whorls. Cyclura. * * 



Terrestrial types of flattened form. 



Femoral pores. 

 Tail with whorls of 



spiny scales. Hoplocercus. Uromastix. 



Tail long, simple ; scales 



small. Crotaphytus. Liolepis. 



Tail simple, scales large. Sceloporus. * * 



No femoral pores ; preanal pores. 

 Tail with whorls of 



spines. * * Stellio. 



Tail simple, not elongate, 



ear open. Proctotretus. Agama. 



Neither femoral nor anal pores. 



Much flattened, tail short, scales irregular. 



Ear exposed. Phrynosoma. Moloch. 



Ear concealed. (Doliosaurus, s. g.) | MegfuSus!'^^" 



A similar parallel may be drawn between the American Teid;B, and the old 

 world Lacertidae, and in fact between all the families of the Lacertilia Leptog- 

 lossa." I have added to these for comparison two families of the Typhloph- 

 thalmi. Each family embraces one or more series, and these exhibit a re- 

 markable similarity in the relative developmentof the limbs and digits; among 

 the higher groups the parallelisms lie in the an-angement, — as greater or less 

 separation, of the head shields. The Scincidte are cosmopolite ; the Gym- 

 nophthalmid;e, which have the eyelids of their foetus, are Australian; the Sep- 

 sidffi, either larval or senile in head shields, are mostly ^Ethiopian. 



The first comparison of these groups was made by Wiegmann (Herpetolo- 

 gia Mexicana.) who employed, however, only the Scincidas and Lacertidae, and 

 could not include the many types made known since his day. 



From the class Aves I have selected only the homologous series of the Cla- 

 natorial and Oscine Passeres. Naturalists more fully acquainted with the 

 genera could probably increase ihe examples of heterology largely. Each 

 group furnishes us with carnivorous, insectivorous and frugivorous forms ; 

 each with walkers, climbers, and sedentary genera ; each with butcher-birds, 

 thrushes, warblers (not, in song!), wrens and fly-catchers. Each and all of 

 these types are teleologically necessary to any country complete in the wealth 

 of nature, and to each geological period. 



1868.] 




284 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



3 3 



WW 



cS a; 



& 3® 

 o • tcta 



S 3 0) B 

 o P<C 0) 



6? 



~ 2 



3'a, 

 S5 



£■? 



1^ 



.5 S PTS 



2 p 

 5^ 



■a I 



> o 



>0J 



[Oct. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 285 



Clamatores. Oscines. 



I. Tree-climbers, with long hiad toe and tail feathers stiffened and acute. 

 Dmdrocolaptidie. Certhiidx. 



II. Terrestrial in part, with the tertials as long as the primary quills. 

 Geobal/'die. Motacillidx. 



III. Tree-perchers with hooked bill, graduating from powerful to medium 

 and slender. 



Formicariidx. Turdidx. 



Thamnophilus. Bill strongest, hooked. Lanius. 



Formicarius. " moderate. Turdus. 



Formicivora. " weak. Sf/lvia. 



Rhamphocmmus. " slender (wrens). Troglodytes. 



IV. Flj-catchers with flat bill and weak legs ; wait for their prey and take 

 it on the wing. 



Tyrannidee. My,scicapa et aflF. 



V. Flat-billed berry and fruit eaters. 



Cotingidx. Bombycillidx. 



From the Mammalia the well-known series of the Marsupialia and Placen- 

 tialia may be chosen. 



Placentialia. Marsppialia. 



I. Toes unguiculate, in normal number ; sectorial teeth ; i. e., one or more 

 molars with one or no internal tubercles ; canines strong : 



Carnivora, Sarcophaga.* 



I. Digitigrade. 

 Toes 5—4. 

 b. Numerous sectorial tuberculars. 

 Tubercular molars 2.. 

 Canidffi. ^ * * 



Tubercular molars i (upper incisors more numer- 

 ous in some). 

 * * Thylacinida?. 



II. Plantigrade ; molars tubercular. 

 a. Posterior molars 4- 



Dasyuridae. 



* * 4 



aa. Posterior molars 2. 



Ursidfe. 



II. Toes unguiculate ; molars with more than one row of pointed tubercles; 

 canines weak or none ; incisors large. 



Insectivora. Entomophaga. 



a. True molars i, toes 4 — 5. 

 Tail naked. 

 Gymnura. Didelphys. 



Tail hairy. 

 Cladobates. Myoictis. 



IV. Molars with transverse crests, no canines ; tusk-like incisors ; pairs of 

 limbs of similar proportions. 



* Flower and Krefft show that the supposed carniverous Thylacoleo Ow. is allied to 

 Hypsiprymus, and probably similar in habits. 



1868.] 




286 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Froboscidia. Diprotodoniidse. 



Two inferior incisors ; molars with two cross-crests ; size huge. 

 a. Two rudimental lateral incisors above. 

 * * Diprotodon. 



aa. ? One pair of incisors only above ; a trunk. 

 Dinotherium. 



V. No canines ; two pairs of cutting incisors. 

 a. Three true molars. 

 Rodentia. 



aa. Four true molars. 



* * 



Rhizophaga. 



The parallels are in this case very imperfect in details, and but few worthy 

 of the name can be made. They are, however, illustrative of a remote hetero- 

 logy, sufficiently remarkable to have claimed the notice of naturalists for man)» 

 years.* I also have little doubt but that future palteontological discoveries 

 will increase the number of parallels, but bring to light truly heterologous 

 generic terms of the Marsupial series. Predictions of this kind have been on 

 many occasions fulfilled (e. g.^ some of D'Orbigny's among the Cephalopoda), 

 and I look with confidence to the ultimate demonstration of that heterology 

 here, which has been already seen in the Batrachia and Reptilia. 



The homologous groups of the Catarrhine and Platyrrhine Quadrumana are 

 measured as follows : 



Tailless. 



Tail short. 



Long tail. 



Thumb developed. 



Thumb rudimental. 

 Thumb none. 



Catarrhini. 



Andropithecus. 



Simla. 



Hylobates. 



Cynocephalus. 



Macacus. 



Cercopithecus. 



Semnopithecus. 

 Colobus. 



Platyrrhini. 



Brachyurus. 



Lagothrix. 

 Mycetes. 



Brachyteles. 



Ateles. 



I append two homologous series, represented by the Nautilea and the Ammo- 

 nites of the Tetrabranchiate Cephalopoda, which are distinguished, the first 

 by the simple septa and the siphon central or marginal ventral ; and the second 

 by the complex and folded septa and siphon central or marginal dorsal. The 

 parallelisms have been noted by Barrande, Bronn, and many conchologists, 

 who can furnish a much more full table than the following, from the most re- 

 cent sources : ^ 



Nautili. Ammonites. 



A. The shell straight, unwound. 

 Orthoceras. 



B. The shell more or less curved or wound. 

 a.. Simply curved. 



Cyrtoceras, \ 



Phragmoceras, J 



etet. A more or less straight portion, folded on the remainder. 

 (i. Folded portion in close contact with remainder. 



Baculites. 



Toxoceras. 



* We owe very many observations on the Marsupials to Owen. 



[Oct., 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 287 



Ascoceras. Ptychoceras. 



/?/?. Folded portions not in contact. 

 ? ? Hamites. 



atta.. One extremity spirally wound, the volutions not in contact. 



/?. Extremity of the shell prolonged beyond the wound portion. 



Lituites. Ancyloceras. 



/?/?. Extremity not prolonged in a line. 



y. The spiral flat. 



Gyroceras. Crioceras. 



yy. The spiral elevated (heliciform). 

 Trochocerus. Turrilites. 



otaa*. Spiral turns of the shell in contact. 



/?. Extremity prolonged in line beyond the spiral. 

 * * Scaphites. 



/?/?. Extremity not prolonged beyond spiral. 

 Nautilus. Ammonites. 



We may now consider the question of the origin of these higher groups. 

 In the first place, we must lay down the proposition that (he characters which 

 constitute groups ^'■higher" in the comparison of rank (we do not of course mean 

 higher in the same line, as we say higher genus in a family, or higher order 

 in a class) are such solely from their being more comprehensive, or present through- 

 out a greater range of specieg. 



What is true, therefore, in respect to characters of genera, is likely to be 

 true in respect to characters of higher groups, such as we have been consider- 

 ing in the preceding pages. Believing, then, that a new genus has been es- 

 tablished by the transition of a number of species of a preceding genus in 

 order, without necessary loss of specific characters, I think the same process 

 may have established the suborders and orders in question. That is, that a large 

 number of genera have near the samt time, in past or present geological history, passed 

 into another suborder or order by the assumption or loss of the character or charac- 

 ters of that to which they were transferred, and that without necessary loss of their 

 generic characters . 



I will cite a probable case of this kind, the facts of which I have already 

 adduced. 



It has already been shown that the genera of six of the families of the Ba- 

 trachia Anura form series characterized by the successive stages of ossifica- 

 tion of the skull, terminating in a dermoossified condition, with over-roofed 

 temporal foss^. That in nearly all the other families similar relations be- 

 tween genera exist, but are nowhere carried so far. The character attained 

 by all the first series is now only generic, but should all the genera of each of 

 the six families assume this character in time, as is necessary in accordance 

 with a development hypothesis, it would at once possess a new and higher 

 importance, and would become ordinal or otherwise superior. It would define 

 a series homologous with all those types which had not attained it. This 

 character of the over-roofing of the temporal foss* has actually attained a 

 family significance among the Testudinata, — e. g., as defining the marine 

 turtles ; and similar characters are found by Owen to characterize the 

 Labyrinthodontian order of Batrachia.* 



Agassiz has pointed out a similar and more extended case, in the Hetero- 

 cercal and Homocercal ganoids. Had we not so many of the closest approxi- 

 mations between members of these groups, they would stand in the systems 



♦The roof here alluded to by Owen includes some two distinct bones not known in the 

 arch of the Anura, and therefore different. It is, however, enough to know that this 

 structure is serially associated with its absence and rudimental appearance in the tailed 

 Batraoiiia of the present day, to make the comparison apposite. 



1868.] 




288 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



as two great homologous series, with their contained heterologous genera. 

 As it is, these heterologous terms or genera are evidently so nearly allied 

 that Agassiz, in the Poissons Fossiles, has thought it best to arrange the 

 latter together, thus instituting a system transverse, as it were, to the other. 

 This may be necessary, since Kolliker points out transitional forms, and per- 

 haps certain types may have begun to abandon the heterocercal form near 

 the period of reproduction, producing offspring somewhat protean in charac- 

 ter, preparatory to an earlier appearance and consequent permanence of the 

 homocercal type. This is to be derived from the history of the metamorpho- 

 sis of Amblystoma. 



In the same manner the development of the convolutions of the brain does 

 not define groups of the highest rank, since it progresses chieflj' during the 

 later periods of embryonic life, and is therefore a " developmental character." 

 Owen has endeavored to distinguish the primary divisions of Mammalia by 

 the character of these convolutions, whereas they really define only the sub- 

 groups of the orders. For we have Lissencephalous (smooth-brained) mon- 

 keys, — certain lemurs, — and smooth-brained Ruminants, — i. e., the extinct 

 Brachyodon and Anoplotherium, according to Lartet and Gratiolet. (The 

 lowest types of the existing smooth-brained Mammalia, including especially 

 those with no or rudimental corpus callosum, the Marsupials, are also dis- 

 tinguished by the non-developement of the deciduous teeth* (excepting one 

 premolar). If now through some topographical change the whole series of 

 Mammalia between the smooth-brained and convolute-brained were lost to us, 

 as by the elevation of a region, and the absence of favorable localities or 

 bodies of water for the preservation of their remains, we would have to 

 study two homologous groups, with the heterologous terms of each corres- 

 jjonding with each other, as do now the genera of the Clamatores and 

 Oscines, of the Arcifera and Raniformia, etc. 



In the same way the characters defining Implacental Mammalia will be 

 found transitional in some type, and this great series, homologous with the 

 Placentals, will have to be placed in closer connection, in its genera, with the 

 series of the latter, with genera of the same, perhaps now extinct. 



7. Of mimetic analogy. 



It has been often remarked that the animals of the Equatorial Ethiopian 

 region wereTery generally of smoky and black colors. This is remarkably 

 the case, and the peculiarity of the genus Homo in this respect is shared by 

 birds, reptiles and fishes in a remarkable degree. This cannot be traced to 

 the effect of torrid climate, for the same latitudes in India and the Malaysian 

 Archipelago, and in South America, do not produce such colors. 



The similarity in color of desert types has also been remarked. The grey 

 sand-hue so well adapted for concealment is universal, with few variations, 

 in the reptiles of the Tartar and Arabian deserts, the great Sahaja, and the 

 sands of Arizona and California. There is also a tendency to produce spiny 

 forms in such places; witness the Stellios and Uromastix and Cerastes of the 

 Sahara, the Phrynosomas and horned rattlesnake of south-western America. 

 The vegetation of every order, we are also informed, is in these situations 

 extremely liable to produce spines and thorns. 



The serpents of the Neotropical Region furnish remarkable illustrations of 

 mimetic analogy. All the species of the genera Elaps, Pliocercus, Oxyrrho- 

 pus, Erythrolamprus, and many of those of Ophibolus and Rhabdosoma are 

 ornamented with black and yellow rings on a crimson ground. The species of 

 all these genera are harmless, except in the case of Elaps, which is venomous. 

 We may give for this genus, as the most varied, the following range of varia- 

 tion in coloration : 



* This I have inadvertently alluded to (p. ) as the non-development of the permanent 

 series; the homology of the" dental system of Marsupials appears, however, to be with the 

 latter, and not with the milk: series. See Flower, Trans. Roy. See. 1867. 



[Oct. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



289 



Pairs of black rings ; 



Opheomorphus mimus. d 



Erythrolamprus venustis- 



simus. a 

 Ophibolus polyzonus. a 

 Xenodon bicinctus. b 



Single black rings, far apart 

 Elaps corrallinus. b 



nigrocinctus. c 

 Pliocerciis equalis.c 



Oxyrrhopus ? 



Erythrolamprus albosto- 

 latus. b 



Single black rings, very close 

 Elaps mipartitus. d 



Pliocercus euryzonus. d 



Oxyrhopus petolarius. d 

 Scolecophis zonatus. a 



Leptognathus anthra- 

 cops. a 



Species a, from Mexico and Central America. 

 " b, " Brazil, Venezuela. 

 " c, " Central America. 

 " d, " -western side of Andes. 

 " h, " Arizona and Sonora. 



Many of the species in the same column are exceedingly similar, and some 

 ^ have^ittle (perhaps nothing) to distinguish them but generic characters. The 

 most similar are almost always from the same sub-region. 



Similar analogies have been pointed out by Bates among the Lepidoptera 

 of Brazil, and by Wallace among those of Borneo and Celebes, etc. I call 

 attention to these authors, here without copying them, as they will repay pe- 

 rusal in the originals. 



A case of analogy which may belong to this class is that of the three genera 

 Chelys among tortoises, Pipa among frogs, and Aspredo among Siluroid 

 fishes, species of which inhabit at the same time the rivers of Guiana. The 

 crania of these genera are similarly excessively flattened and furnished with 

 dermal appendages, and their eyes are very minute. The singular similarity 

 need only be mentioned to those familiar with these genera, to be recognized. 



The bearing of the Mimetic analogy on the question of transition of types 

 in the developmental hypothesis, is its demonstration of the independence of 

 generic and specific characters of each other, which may suggest the possibility 

 of the former being modified without affecting the latter. 



These facts might have been introduced under Sect. list, but they illustrate 

 the general laws of the present section. 



IV. Of natural selection. 



rt. As affecting ordinal and class characters. 



The second law which may be supposed to have governed a descent with 

 modification, in the production of existing genera, is the force which the will 

 of the animal applies to its body, in the search for means of subsistence and 

 protection from injuries, gradually producing those features which are evi- 



1868.] 




290 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



dently adaptive in their nature. This is part of the " natural selection" of 

 Darwin. 



That this law is subordinate to the one first propounded must, I think, be evi- 

 dent to any one who studies the assumed results of the workings of both, as 

 seen in the characters of genera. It is sufficiently well known that the essential 

 features of a majority of genera are not adaptive in their natures, and that 

 those of many others are so slightly so as to ofifer little ground for the suppo- 

 sition that the necessity has produced them. 



Both laws must be subordinate to that unknown force which determines 

 the direction of the great series. If a series of suppressions of the nervous 

 and circulatory systems of beings of common birth produced the " synthetic " 

 predecessors of the classes of vertebrata, the direction towards which the 

 highest advanced, or its ultimate type, can be only ascribed as yet to the 

 divine fiat. So far as we can see, there is no reason or law to produce a 

 preference for this direction above any other direction. 



If from these fixed bases descendants have attained to successive stations 

 on the same line of progress, in subordinate features of the nervous and cir- 

 culatory systems, constituting the " synthetic " predecessors of the orders ia 

 each class, the type finally reached seems to rest on n5 other basis than the 

 pleasure of the Almighty. 



/?. As affecting family characters. 



If from the single species generalizing a modern order we attempt to de- 

 duce synthetic predecessors of existing families, we find some difficulty, if we 

 attempt to see in these stages a uniform succession of progress. A sup- 

 pression of some features, and advance in others, in one and the same indi- 

 vidual up to the period of reproduction, would produce offspring divergent 

 from the start, and represent the relationship of families as we find them. 



y. As affecting generic characters. 



If the extremes of our series of genera were characterized by structures 

 particularly adapting them above all others to some cotemporary necessity of 

 existence, this second law, or Darwin's, might be regarded as primary. But 

 the writer's experience of comparative anatomy has led him to believe that 

 this is not the case, as expressed in Proposition IV. • 



This view has not been overlooked by Darwin, who, however, treats of it 

 very briefly, and appears to attach it to the theory of adaptations, or modifi- 

 cations for a physiological purpose. He says, Origin of Species, 388 (Amer. 

 Edit. 1860): " We may extend this view to whole families, or even classes. 

 The fore-limbs which served as legs in the parent species may become, by a 

 long course of modification, adapted in one descendant to act as hands, in 

 another as paddles, in another as wings; and on the above two principles, — 

 namely, of each successive modification supervening at a rather later age, and 

 being inherited at a correspondingly late age, — the fore-limbs in the em- 

 bryos of the several descendants of the parent species will still resemble each 

 other closely, for they will not have been modified. But in each individual 

 new species the embryonic fore-limbs will differ greatly from the fore-limbs 

 in the mature animal; the limbs in the latter having undergone much modi- 

 fication at a rather late period of life, and having thus been converted into 

 hands, paddles or wings." He then inclines to assign this change to the ne- 

 cessity of external circumstance. But such modification must be the same in 

 kind as others, which the same hypothesis must explain, and of which the 

 same author remarks (p. 382) : " We cannot, for instance, suppose that in the 

 embryos of the Vertebrata the peculiar loop-like course of the arteries near 

 the branchial slits are related to similar conditions in the young mammal, 

 which is nourished in the womb of its mother, in the egg of the bird which is 

 hatched in a nest, and in the spawn of a frog underwater. We have no more 



, [Oct. 




NATUEAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 291 



reason to believe in such a relation than we have to believe that the same 

 bones in the hand of a man, wing of a bat, and fin of a porpoise, are related 

 to similar conditions of life. No one will suppose that the stripes on the 

 whelp of the lion, or the spots on the young blackbird, are of any use to these 

 animals, or related to the conditions to which they are exposed." 



The law of natural selection, however, has no doubt been a very important 

 agency in the production of organic types in different periods of the world's 

 history, but the part it has played in the determination of generic features 

 would appear to have been very small. 



In its first effect, — that of producing a structure adapted for a particular 

 purpose, — it would seem to have acted differently to produce the same results, 

 ahd hence not to have produced any of the more extended groups, as families, 

 where hundreds of species are identical in a single feature. Witness the 

 differences in diverse types of the tree-frogs, each type adapting its possessor 

 to an arboreal life : 



I. Claw-like, with globular base Hylid^. 



Leptopelis. 



II. Simple, obtuse-depressed at tip Ranid^. I aa and III a. 



III. With a terminal transverse limb Ranid^, //y^araraa et aff. 



Callula. 

 Brachymerus. 

 Hy lodes. 



iV. Bifurcate Batrachyla. 



Dendrobates. 

 Polypedates. 

 Rhacophorus. 

 The short foot of the Testudinidre, where one row of phalanges is omitted, 

 has been already alluded to. The gradual reduction of this set of bones, ac- 

 companying general modification of form in the increased convexitj of dorsal 

 region, as we leave the more aquatic and progress towards the terrestrial 

 tortoises, would seem to be intimately connected with difference of habit. 

 The increased convexity of carapace is an increased defence from falling ob- 

 jects, — a danger to which land tortoises are far more subject than the aquatic. 

 Another protection not needed by water tortoises so much as by terrestrial, 

 is the faculty of closing one or both free lobes of the plastron, as seen in 

 the Cistudo, Sternothaerus, etc., or of portions of the carapace, as in Pixys, 

 Cinixys, etc. This might really have been produced by excessive tension on 

 the sternal and pelvic muscles while young, and while the sutures were not 

 fully interlocked. This, continued for a long time, might have produced the 

 result. Yet it is not easy to see what protection the aquatic Uronyx and 

 Platythyrje need in this respect, above the Emydes of the same countries. The 

 backs of these genera are also as convex as are. many of the terrestrial genera 

 or Testudinidaj. 



I cannot better express my views than by quoting the following from the 

 pen of the late Dr. Falconer. It is extracted from one of hia essays on the 

 Elephantida;.* 



" Each instance, however different from another, can be shown to be a term 

 of some series of continued fractions. When this is coupled with the geo- 

 metrical law governing the evolution of form, so manifest in shells of the 

 MoUusca, it is difficult to believe that there is not in nature a deeper seated 

 and innate principle, to the operation of which natural selection is merely an 

 adjunct. 



"The whole range of the mammalia, fossil and recent, cannot furnish a 

 species, which has had a wider geographical distribution, and, at the same 

 time, passed through a longer term of time and through more extreme changes 

 of climatal conditions than the mammoth. 



*See writings of Hugh Falconer, vol. ii. (Ed. by Murchison.) 



1868.] 




292 PROCEEDrNGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



" If species are so unstable and so susceptible of mutation through such in- 

 fluences, why does that extinct form stand out so signally a monument of 

 stability? By his admirable researches and earnest writings, Darwin has, be- 

 yond all his cotemporaries, given an impulse to the philosophical investiga- 

 tion of the most backward and obscure branch of the biological sciences of 

 bis day ; he has laid the foundation of a great edifice; but he need not be 

 surprised if, in the progress of erection, the superstructure is altered by his 

 successors, like the Duomo of Milan, from the Roman to a different style of 

 architecture. 



"The inferences which I draw from these facts are not opposed to one of 

 the leading propositions of Darwin's theory. 



" With him I have no faith in the opinion that the mammoth and other 

 extinct elephants made their appearance suddenly, after the type in which 

 their fossil remains are presented to us. The most rational view seems to be, 

 that they are in some shape the modified descendants of earlier progenitors. 

 But if the asserted facts be correct, they seem clearly to indicate that the 

 older elephants of Europe, such asE. meridionalis and E. antiquus, 

 were not the stocks from which the later species, E. primigenius and E. 

 africanus sprung, and that we must look elsewhere for their origin. The 

 nearest affinity, and that a very close one, of the European E. meridiona- 

 lis, is with the miocene E. (Loxod.) planifrons of India, and of E. p r i - 

 m i g e n i u s with the existing Indian species. 



" Another reflection is equally strong in my mind, that the species by ' natu- 

 ral selection,' or a process of variation, from external influences, are inade- 

 quate to account for the phenomena. The law of Phyllotaxis, which governs 

 the evolution of leaves around the axis of a plant, is nearly as constant in 

 its manifestation as any of the physical laws connected with the material 

 world." 



(T. As affecting specific characters. 



As I have hitherto attempted to prove, that the higher grade of groups, or, 

 in other words, the higher grade of characters, could not have had their 

 origin through natural selection alone, though admitting it as a conserving or 

 restricting principle, I now come to ground where natural selection must be 

 allowed full sway. The "origin of species" is not the object of this essay, 

 as a greater has gone before me, and has done a great deal towards showing 

 that a selective power, dependent on adaptation and teleological relation, has 

 favored or repressed, or even called into existence, the varied peculiarities 

 that characterize species and races. I will therefore only refer to his well 

 known works on the Origin of Species and the Modifications of Animals under 

 Domestication. 



I may add that it is within the range of possibility that that grade or kind 

 of characters found to define ih.Q family group, may be more or less the result 

 of natural selection. 



Acceleration and retardation is also far from excluded from the probable 

 causes of specific characters. The species of many genera do exhibit a pro- 

 portion of characters which are the successive stages of that one which pro- 

 gresses farthest, as the species of Amblystoma in the position of their teeth, 

 nostrils, form of tail and coloration ; of Hyla in form of vomerine teeth, etc. 

 But the majority of specific characters are of divergent origin, — are " mor- 

 phic " as distinguished from developmental. 



(. On metaphysical species. 

 One of the arguments employed against the developmental hypothesis in 

 any form, is that that inherent " potentiality " which causes that like shall al- 

 ways produce like, is a metaphysical being, which cannot be transformed, and 

 which holds the structure which it vivifies as a material expression or stamp 

 of itself, and which therefore cannot be changed. 



[Oct. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 293 



One expression of this inherent metaphysical specific individuality, if the 

 term may be allowed, has been said to be the peculiar traits of the intelli- 

 gence of species, their motions, voices and instincts. But intelligence of all 

 animals is susceptible of impressions, the lower the intelligence the less sus- 

 ceptible, and the more automatic. But as we rise in the scale of animal being 

 this impressibility and capacity for education is undeniably exhibited by the 

 dog, horse and all the well known domesticated companions of man. There 

 can, in view of the capacities of Aves and Mammalia in these respects, be 

 little doubt that all animals are educated by the " logic of events," that their 

 intelligence, impressed by changed circumstances, can accommodate itself 

 more or less to them, and that there is nothing in this part of their being op- 

 posed to the principle of "descent with modification." 



There is another difficulty in the way of accepting metaphysical peculiarity 

 or pi'ogenitiveness as isolating species. It is marked often strongly in races' 

 or varieties, which no one pretends to have had distinct origin. Here like 

 produces like continually, though not persistently, but sufficiently to show 

 that it resides in varieties of common origin. The isolation of allied species 

 in fact depends, we believe, solely on the supremacy of the automatic over 

 the intelligent spirit. When the intelligent rises above the bounds of nature, 

 or the automatic, the mixture or separation of allied species depends merely 

 on circumstances of necessity, determined by that intelligence. 



But the metaphysical "potentiality" loses all basis, if the law of accelera- 

 tion and retardation be true, for in accordance with it, in the fullness of times 

 like does not produce like. 



V. Of Epochal Relations^ or those measuring Geologic Time. 



If it can be shown that groups having the developmental relation above 

 insisted on are cotemporaries, and if it can be shown that this relation is iden- 

 tical in kind with that which we regard as measuring the successions of 

 geologic time, we will be led to doubt the existence of any very great inter- 

 ruptions in the course of this succession throughout geologic time. And if 

 we can show that faunJB so related are more or less characteristic of distinct 

 portions of the earth's surface, at the present time, we will be led to anticipate 

 that cotemporaneous faunae in different regions, during geologic periods, also 

 bore such a relation. If this proposition be true, we are led to the further 

 conclusion, which is at variance with received canons, that identity of faunae 

 proves successional relation in time, instead of^synchronism.* That this will 

 ultimately be demonstrated appears highly probable to the writer, though, as 

 yet, the evidence is but fragmentary. 



If the relations expressed under the terms homology and heterology, taken 

 together with the observations on metamorphosis, render it probable that a 

 number of genera have reached their expression points, or periods of metamor- 

 phosis, at near the same time in geologic history, an important point has 

 been gained. If we can render it probable that a cliange in any organic char- 

 acter has been nearly simultaneous throughout a large extent of specific 

 forms, the change becomes, on the latter account alone, of higher than gene- 

 ric value, but characteristic of such groups as Marsupialia, Olamatores, 

 Acrodonta, Arcifera, Jleterocerca and the like. 



We have here, also, an important element in the estimation of the value of 

 apparent interruptions in the geological history of the life of the globe. These 

 interruptions, it is true, are greater than any such theory as the present can 

 bridge over; yet such a theory, if true, lessens their importance. They are 

 in any case well accounted for on the theory of the existence of periods of 

 elevation, during which the life of a given region is necessarily almost en- 

 tirely lost to us, through lack of means of preservation of their remains. 



*This view was first propouaded by and has since been reaffirmed by Huxley. 



1868,] 




294 PROCEEDIN'GS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



We may also compare such extended metamorphoses with those of cosm ica 

 matter, such as when, in the course of ages, a primaeval vapor has in a short 

 time collapsed to the liquid form, or as when the vast of liquid in turn has 

 shrunk to its solid condition; both alilie for ages approaching their change, 

 yet stationary in external relations till the moment of transition has arrived. 



The following are the zoological relations of the groups already compared : 



The most generalized group of fishes of the Regio Neotropica is that of 

 Characins. Its type, in respect to fin structure, which Js common to all the 

 Malacopterygians, is that of an undeveloped stage of the Acanthopterygians, 

 the adipose fin being an undeveloped cartilaginous fin and the cartilaginous 

 fin an undeveloped spinous fin.* It may be said to be the highest among 

 Malacopterygians if we look to the complete oviducts, opercula, jaws, etc., 

 , but it is the lowest as removed farthest from the extreme of Malacopterygian 

 peculiarities, as being most generalized or embracing representatives of all 

 the rest, and approaching nearest the types of the past — the Ganoids. For 

 example, Butyrinus and Vastres may be compared with Amia. The family is 

 distributed chiefly in the Southern Hemisphere. 



The genus Orestias, which Agassiz says is characterized by a feature which 

 exists in the immature state of all other Cyprinodonts, — the absence of ven- 

 tral fins, — is only found in the Neotropical region. 



Of the venomous serpents, the inferior group, the Proteroglypha, belong to 

 the Southern Hemisphere, and the Australian and Neotropical regions al- 

 most exclusively embrace by far the greater proportion. Australia con- 

 tains none other. 



The Iguanian lizards are lower than the Acrodont, exhibiting a larval type 

 of dentition, and one characteristic of all lower Sauria and Batrachia. The 

 only acrodont type of Ophiosaura (Trogonophis) is Old World. 



The New World Teidse have not the extent of ossified temporal roof that 

 their representatives, the Old World Lacertids have. So the chiefly Neo- 

 tropical Anguidffi have the tongue partly of papillose type of their Old World 

 representatives, the Zonuridae, and partly the smooth or scaly type of the 

 cosmopolite Scincidte, which are inferior to them. 



The snake-like forms of the families of the Lacertiiia Leptoglossa greatly 

 predominate in the Southern Hemisphere; also those with undeveloped pal- 

 pebrse. 



The Neotropical type of Testudinata is quite coincident with the family 

 Characinidas in relations. It is, like it, largely distributed over the Southern 

 Hemisphere, and like it may be regarded, in respect to its pelvic pecularities, 

 as higher than the remaining types, but in its generalized character and re- 

 lationship to the past periods may be called lower. 



The Neotropical type of Batrachia Anura, that is the Arcifera, is lower in 

 developmental characters than the opposed series, the Raniformia ; such of 

 the latter as are found in its limits partake in some way of larval incomplete- 

 ness. The Arcifera are c'hiefly distributed elsewhere in Australia, where 

 no Raniformia exist.f Those genera of Old World Raniformia of the lowest 

 or toothless group, which display the least development of the cranial bones, 

 as Bra-chymerus and Breviceps, are of the Southern Hemisphere. — South 

 African. 



The Pullastrine birds are a generalized group, inferior to the group op- 



* Kner Ueber den Bau der Flossen. 



t The Eucnimisbicolor Gray would appear to be an exception, were its generic and sub- 

 ordinate affinities truly represented by its name. I have examined the type specimen 

 through tlie kindness of Dr. Giinther, and can state that it is nor an Ixalus,(= Eucnemis), 

 and does not even belong to the Raniformia, but is an Areifer of the family Hylidse. If 

 it be not a young C:ilamita or Hyla, it will be a Hvlella near the H. ca rnea type. 



Gunthor'stMtes that Hylorana erythraea has been found at the extreme northern 

 noint— Cape York— of Australia. If so, the case is parallel to the occurrence of the Hani- 

 form Ranula in northern South America. 



[Oct. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 295 



posed to them — the Gallinas. Their typical forms, like the last, are distributed 

 to the Neotropical and Australian regions : the outliers (pigeons) are not so 

 numerously distributed in the other regions. 



The Struthious birds, the most synthetic of the class, belong exclusively to 

 the Southern Hemisphere ; as is well known, they chiefly abound in Austra- 

 lia and its adjacent islands, with an abundant outlying type — the Tinamus— 

 in South America. 



The penguins, which only of all birds display the divided metatarsus, in- 

 habit the Antarctic regions and Cape Horn. 



The Clamatarial type of the Passeres exhibit larval characters in the non- 

 developmeht of the singing apparatus, and the scaled or nearly naked tarso- 

 metatarsus. These are chiefly South American. 



Of Mammalia, the placentals without enamel on their teeth, which, in this 

 respect, never reach the full development of the class, whose dentition is also* 

 monophyodont, i. e., the Edentata, inhabit only the Southern Hemit^phere, 

 and almost altogether the Neotropical region. The implacental Mammalia, also 

 (except in one tooth) mononhyodont, which approach birds and reptiles in so 

 many respects, are confined to the Southern Hemisphere, and chieflj^, as all 

 know, to Australia. 



Of the Quadrumana, the Platyrrhine group is known to be inferior to the 

 Catarrhines : the farmer presents an entirely embryonic condition of the os 

 tympanicuvi, which is passed by the latter in early age ;* it contains also the 

 only clawed genus of the true monkeys. It is confined to the Neotropical. 

 To Madagascar, also of the Southern Hemisphere, and nearest in many ways 

 to the Neotropical, pertain the lowest families of the Quadrumana, the Lemur- 

 idc'« and Chiromyidae ; the former presenting brains without convolutions, 

 and approaching in many ways the Insectivora; the last imitating, at least, 

 a Rodent. 



There are also other reasons for the inferiority of South America. Its deer, 

 which are few, are those which never produce more than the " dague," or the 

 first horn of the northern Cervus, or those which never get beyond the fourth 

 step in the development of the lower group ofR. Nearctica. 



The LoricariidfB of South America, I am informed by Prof. Agassiz, possess 

 the foetal pupil of the vertebrate type. 



If we glance at Coleoptera we find the great predominance of the groups 

 ■with undeveloped tarsus, the three and four-jointed Trimera and Tetramera, 

 and of the lower group with undeveloped sternum,f the Rhynchophora, in the 

 Neotropical region. 



Among Lepidoptera it is known that the most gigantic of the species of 

 the Neotropical region are Noctuidre (Erebus, etc.), and that in that region 

 this low type of the order reaches its greatest development. The largest 

 forms of theRegio Nearctica, as well as Palzearctica, are representatives of 

 the higher type of the Saturniidae (Attacus, Telea, etc.), while the largest and 

 most powerful of this order in the Palfeotropical (Indian) region are the 

 Papilionid forms of Ornithoptera, etc., the generally admitted crown and 

 head of all. Of course other types, both higher and lower, are largely de- 

 veloped in each and all of these regions, and the significance of the above 

 facts is perhaps only to be seen when taken in connection with a large num- 

 ber of others pointing in the same direction. 



Two or three comparisons of different fauna may be brought forward final- 

 ly. First, returning to the birds, a survey of some of the differences between 

 the birds of Panama, Pennsylvania and Palestine may be made. J 



Tristram noticed 322 species of birds within the range of the ancient terri- 



* See Dr. H. Allen, Proceed. A. N. S., Philada., 1867. 



fLeconte American Association, 1867. 



X From the American Naturalist, 1868, by the author. 



1868.] 




296 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



toryof Palestine. Of these 230 were land and 92 water birds,?, e., Natatores and 

 the wading Cursores. Of the 230, 79 are common to the British Islands, and 

 36 of them are found in China, but a small proportion extending their range 

 to both these extremes. Of the water birds, which are always more widely 

 distributed, 55 of the 92 are British and 5*7 Chinese. Twenty-seven appear to 

 be confined to Palestine and to the immediately adjacent country ; the largest 

 of these is a crow. 



Taking the 230 land birds at a glance, we find the utter absence of so many 

 of the well known forms that enliven our grounds and forests. The absence 

 of Tanagridte and Icteridae changes the aspect of the bird-fauna at once. 

 What have ^e here then of nine-quilled Oscines to enliven the meadows like 

 our swarms of blackbirds, or fill the tree tops and thickets with flutter like 

 our wood warblers? Notliing ; for the twenty-four species of finches, Frin- 

 gillidte, will but balance our own, though the genera are all different but 

 four, and they the most weakly represented by species. We must look to 

 the higher series, the ten-quilled song birds, for the missing rank and file. 

 While a much larger extent of the Eastern United States possesses fifty 

 species of these types, the little Palestine has already furnished a list of one 

 hundred and twenty-eight. 



First, of the crows, which verge nearest Icteridae by the starlings, we have 

 13 species against five in our district of the United States, and not less than 

 seven of the type genus Corvus, to our one common and two rare. Of these, 

 two are of the larger species, the ravens. If we turn to the cheerful larks, 

 we find the proportion again the same ; fifteen species for Palestine and one 

 for the whole United States. One congener of our species occurs there; the 

 other genera call to mind the African Deserts and Russian Steppes. Mota- 

 cillidae, again, ten to one against our fauna. We have two Tauagrida3 to 

 imitate them, beside the true relative. In swallows we are about equal, and 

 in the forest-haunting Paridaj — titmice and wrens — we exceed a little ; but 

 the comparison of Sylviidae and Turdidas is most striking. These highest of 

 the bird series, especially made to gladden man's haunts with song, exceed 

 in number all the other ten-quilled Oscines together inhabiting Palestine, 

 amounting to seventy-five species. In our corresponding region of the United 

 States nineteen species is the quantum. It is true no mocking bird or wood- 

 robin is known away from our shores, but Palestine has the nightingale, the 

 black-cap and the true warblers or Sylvias, which, while they glean from 

 shrub and tree their smallest insect enemies, as do our equally numerous 

 small Tanagridaj, have much louder and sweeter voices. 



Our solitary blue-bird represents the long-winged Turdidae ; in the Holy 

 Land there are twenty species corresponding, though none are of our genus. 

 There are indeed but three genera of these two families common to both 

 couHtries. One of these, Lanius, the butcher-bird, occurs here in one new 

 species, in Palestine in six. 



Turning now to a lower series, we look in vain for Clamatorial perchers ; 

 that series which gives us the fierce king-bird and querulous pewee, and 

 which peoples South America with thrush and warbler, and shrike and tree- 

 creeper. 



'**"In taking a hasty glance over the lower groups, where the carotid arteries 

 begin to be double, as the Syndactyli, we find Palestine too far from the 

 tropics to present us with much array ; but in the related zygodactyles our 

 forest-crowned continent must claim great preeminence. It has but a solitary 

 Picus, while we have eight in the immediate neighborhood of lat. 40°, in 

 our Eastern States. 



I will close with the birds of prey. Four swamp-hawks, eleven species of 

 falcons, four kites, and eight native eagles, form a list unequalled in the annals 

 of nobility by any land. There are together thirty-one species of Falconids, 

 and of Vultures, four. The eagles appear to be all common, among them 



[Oct. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 297 



the most magnificent birds of prey, the imperial and golden species of these 

 creatures. 



To the ornithologist acquainted with the fauna of North America, it will 

 thus be readily perceived that, in comparison, the ornis, just examined, pos- 

 sesses more numerous representatives of the higher groups of the birds, and 

 among lower groups possesses chiefly those of superior grade, or lacks them 

 altogether. Let us, however, compare it with that of Central America, where 

 varied surface and temperature offer even greater opportunity for variety, 

 within quite as restricted an area. 



The bird fauna has been found by Messrs. Sclater and Salvin to embrace 

 about 385 species, which is 63 more than were mentioned to occur in Pales- 

 tine, which is open on three sides to the great contnient. Eighty of 348 land 

 birds are characteristic of Central America; and those which find their kin 

 limited to the Isthmus and adjoining regions of New Grenada and Equador, 

 amount to about seventy-five more. Twenty-seven is the number not known to 

 extend beyond the boundaries of Palestine ; as to the Middle States of our 

 Union, not one species has been shown to be restricted within such narrow 

 limits. 



A single species occurs in Europe ; this is the fish-hawk, an animal which 

 combines the cosmopolite habit of the sea-bird with the powerful flight of 

 the bird of prey. This is also the onl^^ species common to the Panama and 

 Palestine catalogues. 



The birds of prey are numerous, — twenty-nine species. Among these there 

 is no triie eagle or falc m, and of the nineteen genera but four belong to the 

 fauna of the Holy Land. There is but one species to represent the great 

 grouse family, but, instead, three families of their South American imitators, 

 the PuUastra;, instead of the one — that of the Pigeons — slimly represented in 

 Palestine, and in North America as well. 



Coming to the closer test of superiority, the Passeres, — those delicate 

 creatures, apparently so dependent on those laws which govern increase and 

 provision, and so affected by the changes that man works in the face of 

 nature, — what do we find? We count 106 distinct species. There are none 

 in Palestine. Of songsters, the Oscines, ninety-six species await man's con- 

 quest of the wilderness, to increase in numbers and to display their gifts, 

 while Palestine rejoices in a whole army of them. But the contrast is more 

 remarkable if we analyze these forms. Of the Isthmian Oscines, seventeen 

 onl^' hold the first rank, by virtue of their additional, the tenth primar 

 quill, while this feature marks one hundred and twenty-eight species of 

 Palestine. As we rapidly follow the line to the point where its extreme is 

 manifested, in the family of the Tlirushes or Turdidae, Panama is left but two 

 solitary pioneers of these songsters of the North, while seventy-five species 

 represent the family in Palestine. 



The comparison between different faunas exhibits an apparent gradation in 

 some other groups equally curious. Thus the true Cyprinidie in the Palas- 

 arctic region reach a great development, and produce the highest number of 

 teeth on their pharj'ngeal jaws known, as well as attains the greatest bulk 

 and importance. The number of these teeth is usually seven to five in the 

 iuner row ; only two or three genera exhil)it only four on both. In the Ne-: 

 arctic region the number of teeth is almost always 4 — 4, more rarely 4 — 5, 

 and very seldom as high as 5 — 5. The species of the family are excessively 

 numerous, but are, with scarcely any exception, of small size and weak organ- 

 ism. These statements apply to those of the eastern district of the region 

 between the Rocky Mountains and the Atlantic. Similar types occur in the 

 northern region of the Neotropical, — Mexico, but in no great numbers, but 

 with them the lowest form of the family, — viz., Graodus Giinther. This 

 form has no teeth whatever on the pharyngeal jaws. Further south the 

 family disappears, its place being supplied by the generalized family of 

 'haracinidas. 



1868:] 20 



^. 




298 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



I have already alluded to the great variety of tbe highest or peiitatnerous 

 carnivorous beetles in the Pahenrctic Region. They are extremely abundant 

 in the Nearctic, while the intermediate territory, the Sonoran and Mexican 

 sub-districts, are the head-quarters of the next lower form, the Tenebrionidae, 

 which have the tarsal joints 4 — 5. These give place in the Neotropical to the 

 multitudes of the still lower series, — those with the joints 4 — 4 and 3 — 3, — 

 Tetramera and Trimera. 



The preceding comparisons indicate that an inherent difference between the 

 types of a continent exists at the present time, though the difference is su>)- 

 ordinated to a universal distribution of the higher groups throughout the 

 earth. Has this state of things existed for any long period, or is it a result of 

 different progress in the same group since the human period? This brings us 

 necessarily to a consideration of the truths of palaeontology, especially of the 

 last periods, which have been already urged by Darwin. Thus the present 

 fauna of Australia was preceded in the postpliocene and pliocene by forms 

 possessing similar peculiarities, and belonging to the same classes. That is 

 by herbivorous and carnivorous marsupials and monotremes, and by Varanid 

 Sauria, all of greater size than their predecessors. 



The same fact is well known of the Neotropical region, its present peculiar 

 Edentata having been preceded by giants of the same type in the postpliocene 

 and pliocene. 



In the Nearctic region peculiar existing genera, as Procyon, Alces, Castor, 

 Bos, Sciurus, Arctomys, Lepus, Ovibos, Sorex, Mephitis, Felis, Ursus, Meno- 

 poma, Aspidonectes, Crotalus, are represented by postpliocene fossils, 



Tbe same occurs in the later Pala'arctic formations, where Cervus, Bos, 

 Canis, Mustelidse, Insectivora, Vijiera, Alytcs, Triton, etc.. are allied predeces- 

 sors of existing types. In the Palaeotropical area a wonderful development 

 of Elephas and Gavialis preceded the same types of the present. 



Prior to these faunje another state of things has, however, existed. North 

 America has witnessed a withdrawal of a Neotropical fauna, and the Pala'- 

 arctic the retreat of an Ethiopian type. During the postpliocene in North 

 America, Neotropical genera were to Nearctic as 12 to 29, as the record now 

 stands. In the pliocene beds of Pikeimi (Greece) antelopes, giraffes, rhinoce- 

 ros, hippopotamus, huge manis,* monkeys, monitors, and other genera and 

 species of African relationship are the prevailing forms. 



Still earlier, a strong mingling of Nearctic, and more of Neotropical types, 

 abounded in the Pala?arctic. The genera Chelydra, Andrias, Podocnemis.f 

 Platemys, Caviiform, Psanimorj'ctid and Hesperomys-like Rodentia, Opossums, 

 and Raccoon-like Carnivora. 



We have, then, three important terms from which to derive a theory of the 

 creation : 1, the existing six fauna; bear in many of their parts developmental 

 relations to one another ; 2, they were preceded immediately by faunse similar 

 to them in each case, but more remotely by fauna? like that now next lower. 



On the whole, there can be no doubt of the truth of the generalization, 1st, 

 That the Southern Hemisphere is a geologic stage behind the Northern Hemisphere in 

 progress^ on account (i) of its perfection in types extinct in the Northern, and 

 (2) inferiority in modern types prevalent in the Northern. 



In order, however, to demonstrate this point more fully, let us examine to 

 what extent the higher types exist in the Southern, and lower or ancient in 

 the Northern. 



The Percoid fishes and their allies have Australian and South American 

 representatives in their fresh waters, but they are as mere outliers of the 

 great mass in the Northern Hemisjihere. The higher type of venomous ser- 

 pents (Solenoglypha) occur in both the J3thiopian and Neotropical regions, 

 but they preponderate in the Northern Hemisphere. The higher group of the 



* Aneylotherium, Maerotherium. 



■f-P. bowerbankii {Platemys Ow.) P. 1 se v i s {Emys Owen), ;j 



[Oct. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 299 



Silurians (the Acrodonta) abounds in the Ethiopian and Australian regions; 

 they are as abundant in the Indian and Palaearctic regions of the Northern 

 Hemisphere. In the Southern also, by Uromastix and the Rhynocephalia, 

 they approach nearest the ancient types of the Dicynodontia and the Croco- 

 dilia. Lacertidse, and not Teidae, occur in the ^Ethiopian, but they are but a 

 proportion of the whole, which chiefly exists in the Nearctic. 



Raniforni and not Arciferous Anura populate South Africa; they, however, 

 form but a small proportion compared with the great series of the Nearctic, 

 Palaearctic and Palreotropical regions. It is, however, superior in Anura to 

 the Nearctic, taken by itself. 



Rasorial birds and not Pullastras are the food species of South Africa ; but 

 they do not compare in abundance or size with those of the three regions just 

 mentioned. 



Moreover, but few Clamatores exist in either Australia or ^Ethiopia. The 

 Oscinc types are abundant, nevertheless they cannot be compared in abundance 

 with those of the northern regions. It must also be remembered that the mi- 

 gratory capabilities of birds render them less expressive of the true nature of 

 any fauna. 



The higher family of the Quadrumana, the Simiidae, replaces in Africa the 

 CebidjB of the Neotropical ; they are, however, most abundant in the Palaeo- 

 tropical region, in the other hemisphere. 



There are two ancient or inferior types of the Northern Hemisphere: first, 

 its Ganoid fishes, the Sturgeons of the Nearctic and Pala?arctic, and the Gars 

 of the Nearctic. The latter only have representatives in the Southern Hemi- 

 sphere, Polypterus and Calamoichthys in Africa, and so may be said to be 

 equally distributed ; but the former are confined to the north. We do not 

 know, however, whether they are of a modern or an ancient type, nor do we 

 know of extinct sturgeons in the Southern Hemisphere. Indeed, the Ganoid 

 series is not well defined or known as yet. If, as Agassiz states, the Siluroids 

 pertain to it, it is cosmopolitan, though least represented in the Pahearctic. 



Second, the Tailed or Urodele Batrachia. This order, entirely characteristic 

 of the Northern Hemisphere, is a group which combines characters of Anura 

 with those of the ancient forms, and possesses in its Nearctic types many of 

 low development. The Gj'mnophidia of the Southern Hemisphere cannot be 

 considered inferior to them. In the possession of this group the Northern 

 Hemisphere presents its first element of inferiority. 



The preceding comparisons indicate also the relations of the regions proper 

 to each other. It is obvious enough that the ^Ethiopian is much superior 

 to the two others of the Southern Hemisphere. As to the Australian and Neo- 

 tropical, the former must still be regarded as probably the most ancient, though 

 possessing at the same time a much stronger admixture of northern forms. I 

 have already presented the relations, with the inferior forms of each, thus :* 



R. A us trails. — Inferior in Monotrematous and Marsupial Mammalia, Pul- 

 lastriform and Struthious Birds, Serpentiform Pleurodont Lacertilia, 

 Arciferous Batrachia, Pleurodire Tortoises, its Elapid venomous snakes, 

 and the -whole Flora, according to Unger. 



R. Neotropica . — Marsupial and Edentate Mammalia, Inferior Rodentia and 

 Quadrumana, Pleurodire Tortoises, Pleurodont Lacertilia, Arciferous Ba- 

 trachia, Clamatorial and Pullastriforra Birds, Characin and Erythrinid 

 Malacopterigii. 



Cojiclusions. 



The following maybe looked upon as conclusions which have been indicated 

 in the preceding pages : 



I. Species have developed from preexistent species by an inherent tendency 



* Journ. Acad. Nat. Sci. Philada. 18G6, 109. 



1868.] 




300 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



to variation, and liave been preserved in given directions and repressed in 

 otliers, by tlie operation of tlie law of Natural Selection. (Darwin.) 



II. Genera have been produced by a system of retardation or acceleration 

 in the development of individuals ; the former on preestablished, the latter on 

 preconceived lines of direction. Or, in other words, that while nature's series 

 have been projected in accordance with the law of acceleration and retardation, 

 they have been limited, modified, and terminated by the law of natural selec- 

 tion, which may itself have operated in part by the same law. 



III. The processes of development of specific and generic characters have 

 not pvoceedeA pai-i passu, transitions of the one kind not being synchronous 

 with transitions of the other ; and that, therefore, species may be transferred 

 from one genus to another without losing their specific characters, and genera 

 from order to order without losing their generic characters. 



IV. And as the heterologous terms of the peculiar homologous groups pre- 

 sent an '' inexact parallelism " with each other ; and as types related by inexact 

 parallelism are each among themselves exact parallels in separate series, whose 

 earliest members present "exact parallelism" with each other, it follows — 



v. That the heterologous terms or genera in the later series are modified 

 descendants of those of the earlier series; in other words, that certain groups 

 higher than genera are produced from others of similar high value by " descent 

 with modification." 



VI. That the result of 'such successional metamorphoses will be expressed 

 in geologic history by more or less abrupt transitions, or expression points, 

 rather than by uniformly gradual successions. 



Of course, under the conclusion stated in Proposition II, the genus Homo 

 has been developed by the modification of some preexisteut genus. All his 

 traits which are merely functional have, as a consequence, been produced 

 during the process. Those traits which are not functional, but spiritual, are 

 of course amenable to a diiferent class of laws, which belong to the province 

 of religion. 



Variations in Taxodium and Finns. 

 BY THOMAS MEEHAN. 



In some remarks before the Academy on July 14th, in reference to adnation 

 in the leaves of Coniferae, I said that the power to branch was the test of vigor ; 

 and with increased vigor came proportionately the power of adnation. I 

 pointed out that this was the universal law through all Coniferae, so far as I 

 had been able to examine them ; and that it fully accounted for the specific 

 identity of many forms supposed to be distinct. I went so far as to suggest 

 that Tajoiit/m dixtichum. Richard, and Gli/ptostrobus sinensis, Eudl., were no 

 doubt the same thing, because the only difference between the growing plants 

 was in the different degrees of adnation in their foliage ; and because with 

 this adnation was the increased power to branch observed in all other cases. 

 The two points, going along together, seemed to indicate that this could not 

 be a solitary exception to so clearly marked a law. I exhibited specimens 

 taken from Taxodium, and from Glyptostrohus, showing the approach of the 

 two in the manner the theory indicated. 



Since then some new facts have come before me confirming this view in a 

 remarkable manner. On the nursery grounds of Mr. Roltert Buist, of the 

 Darby Road, near Pliiladelphia, are a few trees which I supposed to be the 

 Gh/ptostrobvs, but which Mr. Buist assured me were many j^ears ago, selected 

 by him from a bed of some thousand Taxodium on account of their peculiar 

 appearance. I exhibit specimens from eleven diflFerent trees. It will be seen 

 the suppression of the leaf blades or adnation is in exact proportion to vigor, 

 or the power of forming branchlets, and with this increased vigor the Taxodi- 

 um become Glyploslrobus, so far as any comparison of leaves and branches 

 can identify anything. 



[Oct. 




NATUEAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 301 



At the conclusion of my paper on the Imos of adnalion, read before the 

 meeting of the American Association for the Advancement of Science, at 

 Chicago, Dr. J. S. Newberry kindly pointed out that, in a fossil state, Gh/p- 

 tostrobus and Taxodium were often found side by side, but always with so much 

 difference between the scales of the cones that, while assenting to the general 

 principles of the paper, he could not regard these two plants identical. As 

 cones are nothing more than metamorphosed stems and branches, it is not sur- 

 prising that the sames laws of adnation which might operate in making the Taxo- 

 dium Glfiptostrohus, and which make them look so very distinct in the different 

 stages of adnation, should also operate on the fruit, and make it appear, when 

 at the widest point of divergence, as really different. It should in fact do so, 

 and instead of the differences in the cones of these fossils being any proof of 

 their specific distinctness, it must be received as a natural sequence of the law 

 I would evolve. 



The specimens I now exhibit show at any rate that the two plants are identi- 

 cally the same. This granted, it completely refutes the generally received 

 theory, that no one species of Conifera? inhabits at once the eastern and western 

 worlds. 



In my paper on variations in Epigsea repens, presented for publication last 

 May, I endeavored to show that "cultivation " and "external circumstances" 

 would not account for variations in form to the extent they usually received 

 credit for; but that there was rather a regular principle of growth in form, as 

 well as in substance, independent of outward agencies, which agencies were 

 calculated quite as much to preserve as to originate the growing forms. 



Those accustomed to study chiefly from herbaria, and little from living spe- 

 cimens, have no idea of the great variations from one type which many species 

 present. These comparative differences are often so insensibly blended, that 

 it is only when we meet with some very extreme forms that they attract our 

 attention, and then only to note their extreme differences. Even when noted 

 they are contemned as obstructing classification, rather than welcomed as 

 invaluable aids in resolving the laws of form. 



In a recent review of part 16 of Decandolle^s Prodromus, which has lately ap- 

 peared, with the Coniferffi by Prof Parlatore, the reviewer says : " It must be 

 clear to every one that a great number of so-called species are varieties of one 

 strain, doubtless produced by localization in different climatal or natural conditions." 

 {Gardener's Chronicle, page 922, 1868.) As this review is understood to be by 

 one who is himself known as a describer of many Coniferte, which are doubt- 

 less varieties of one strain, it may be worth while to point out, in some Coni- 

 ferit. that neither climatal nor any external condition has as much to do with 

 variation in form as an innate power of development, independent of either 

 climatal or local causes. 



In one of our commonest pines — Pinus inops — a very careful comparative ex- 

 amination will show scarcely any two trees to be exactly alike ; the habits of 

 the tree, the shade of color, or the length of the leaves, the size or form of the 

 cone, the scales, or the seeds — in some one point a difference may be found 

 which can easily be described in words. When extremes are brought together 

 the differences are quite as great as characterize different species. By descrip- 

 tions alone they would be fairly entitled to rank as distinct. The mind fails 

 to unite them. It is only the educated eye which perceives their identity. I 

 exhibit two cones from two trees growing on the banks of the Susquehanna, 

 near Harrisburg. One is very long and narrow — three and a half inches in 

 length, by only three-fourths of an inch wide at the base, and the scarcely 

 projecting scales barely spinescent, the other nearly as wide, but only 

 half the length, and with strongly projecting scales and spines. Unless 

 with previous acquaintance of Hinus inops in its natural places of growth, a 

 botanist might well be pardoned for considering these distinct species, yet with 

 the multitude of intermediate forms, all under the same external conditions, 

 how can any " localizatious " account for the varieties ? I have the same ex- 



1868.] 




302 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



perience with Finns rigida and P. pungens ; and it is doubtless true of other 

 species. 



I have noted some interesting: variations in Pinus Banltsiama, vehich in some 

 way do seem to be connected with location, although I have no doubt that 

 ages of geographical travel from a central jioint conjoined with the principle of 

 inheritance, might find the natural inherent laws of variation sufficient to 

 account for them. Dr. Gray says, in the last edition of his Manual of Botany, 

 it is a shrub or low tree 5 to 20 feet high, giving N. Maine, N. Michigan and 

 Wisconsin, and northward as the localities. I did not collect in northern 

 Illinois, but friends tell me it grows some thirty miles from Chicago, only as 

 a bush. Michaux observes that in Labrador it shows signs of decrepid old age 

 at 3 feet, and in no part of America did he find it over 10 feet. Dr. Richardson, 

 in Franklin's narrative of a joarney to the shores of the Polar Seas in 1819 — 

 1822, describes it as 40 feet high in favorable situations, but the diameter of 

 its trunk was greater in proportion to its height than in any other pines of the 

 country. Douglass found it to have longer leaves on the Rocky Mountains 

 than elsewhere. In company with Mr. Wm. Canby, I had the opportunity of 

 examining large forests of them growing on the neck of land between Escan- 

 auba, on Lake Michigan, and Marc|uette, on Lake Superior, where we found 

 them just the reverse of Dr. Richardson's experience. Here they were more 

 slender in proportion to their height, not only than any pine of the country, but 

 probably than any pine elsewhere. Most of the trees were from 30 to 40 feet 

 high, remarkably straight, but only from 6 to 12 inches in diameter. We 

 roughly measured one at Escanauba which was about twenty inches in diame- 

 ter, and perhaps sixty feet high, little shorter than in fact a very fine Pinus 

 resirwsa, about two and a half feet through, growing near it. 



Now these variations have relation to only one particular, that of size ; there 

 would no doubt be found others in many respects ; but even in this one 

 character no theory of climate or soil will account for them. If a low tem- 

 perature dwarfs the Labrador specimens, what is to account for the small 

 bushes in Illinois or southern Wisconsin, in lat. 42°? And again, why are 

 these latter in the rich soils of this district so small in comparison with the 

 almost timber trees of a few hundred miles farther north, and in which is 

 usually considered the poorest land of the north-west ? Soil and climate may 

 have some influence in aiding variation, but facts show the origin is deeper 

 than these, namely, a native power to change, kept in check only by inheri- 

 tance and perhaps external circumstances. 



I have heretofore reported Pinus pungens as growing at Port Clinton ; I find 

 it now abundantly on the hills about Harrisburg ; so it may be set down as 

 native to the whole interior of the Stale of Pennsylvania. 



Nov. U, 1868. 



The President, Dr. Hays, in the Chair. 



Forty-two members present. 



The following paper was presented for publication : 

 Sixth Contribution to the Heri^etologyof Tropical America. By 

 Edw. D. Cope. 



Dr. Leidy called attention to two singular specimens presented this evening 

 by Mr. Lamborn.. They were obtained from the Huronian slates near the 

 Dalles of St. Louis lliver, northern Minnesota. They bear a strong likeness to 

 large coprolites partially imbedded in portions of slate. They not only have 

 the usual form of coprolites, though flattened, but have an apparent spiral 

 arrangement. Taken from the surface slate, the bodies, where exposed to the 

 air have been more readily decomposed than the slate. A broken surface ex- 



[Nov. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 303 



liibits a more distinct crj^pto-crystalliiie appearance than exists in the slate. 

 Suspecting that they possibly might be of the nature of coprolites, Dr. L. had 

 desired Dr. Genth to analyze part of one. The result was carb. lime 36-5, silica 

 and silicates 59-1, oxide of iron, alumina, etc., 4-4. Though not of vertebrate 

 origin, they may perhaps have been the excrement of some huge invertebrate, 

 which, with all others of the time, are now totally obliterated. 



Dr. Leidy further remarked that it was well known that iridescent hues from 

 the surfaces of bodies, independent of thin films, were usually due to aniinute 

 striation or parallelism in the arrangement of the elements of structure. Thus 

 is produced the iridescence upon the wings of the house fly and man}' other 

 insects, that of muscular and tendinous fibres, of pearl shells, artificially ruled 

 surfaces, etc. He has repeatedly observed that the iridescence on the surface 

 of waters was due to the same cause, through myriads of vibrios and bacteria. 

 Under the circumstances he was surprised that authors continue to repeat that 

 the phenomenon of the beautiful play of colors in the precious opal has not 

 been satisfactorily explained. It is evidently due to a regular striated condi- 

 tion of the structure, readil}' observed by the microscope. Tlie stria; upon 

 brilliant facets examined in a number of opals appear to be about 6000 to the 

 inch. The striaj are probably the pores to which Brewster alludes as being 

 the cause of the coloration of the opal. The brilliancy of labradorite is also 

 due to a regular parallelism in the arrangement of elements of structure. 



Nov. 10th. 

 The President, Dr. Hays, in the Chair. 

 Forty-two members present. 



Nov. nth. 

 The President, Dr. Hays, in the Chair. 

 Twenty-five members present. 



Mr. R. P. Stevens made the following remarks on the geology and 

 mineralogy of Venezuela : 



Observations made by my party extend two hundred and fifty miles up the 

 Orinoco river from the city of Bolivar, or five hundred from its mouth, and in 

 three directions southwards one hundred and fifty to two hundred miles. In 

 the hydrographical basin of the Orinoco we have seen no other rock than 

 gneiss, gneissoid schists, granite, and other crystalline rocks. The gneiss is 

 granular and lamellar. Its minerals are magnetic iron ore, cupriferous ores, 

 argentiferous galena, and, very sparingly, gold. 



We have been able to make out two distinct systems of elevation in this 

 basin ; one running N. and S., the other W. N. W. and E. S. E. The former 

 is a low ridge of black, shining, lamellar gneiss, forming a low divide between 

 the Caroni river and the affluents of the Yuruary, or the line of demarcation 

 between the hydrographical basins of the Orinoco and the Essequibo on the 

 west. 



Upon the flanks of these rocks abut the gneiss of the Imitaca Mountains, 

 which forms the divide between these two basins on the north. 



The remaining system of elevation runs N. E. and S. W., and corresponds 

 with that of the Appalachian system of the United States. 



This system is confined, so far as our observations have seen, to the basin of 

 the Essequibo. The rocks elevated by this system are talcose, with quartz 

 veins, quartzite, porphyry, brecciated schists, and aluminous rock of a bluish 

 color, locally known as " bluestone." 



1868.] 




304 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



The basin of the Essequibo is about 900 miles long N. and S., and 600 E. 

 and W. It is the true auriferous field of Venezuela. 



Fragmentary knowledge comes in from all known portions of it, showing all 

 its mountains to be gold-bearing. 



In the valley of the Moeupio, a small and insignificant tributary of the 

 Yuruary, the greatest amount of exploration has been done. Here has been 

 developed two systems of veins ; one running N. E. and S. W., corresponding 

 with the strike of elevation ; the other E. and W., corresponding with the 

 strike of talcose rock. 



On the method of the formation of gold in the veins, the following observa- 

 tions have been made : 



First. Showing that gold must have been placed in the veins at the same 

 time with the quartz matrix, and that these were deposited pan joassw on both 

 walls of the vein. 



Secimd. Observations show that gold has been redisposed on fissure walls of 

 the quartz. 



Third. Observations show that gold has been mechanically mixed with the 

 sulpburet of iron, and that these depositions were made simultaneously with 

 the quartz. 



The best known portion of the new gold fields of Yuayana are situated in 

 the canton of Yurnary (formerly a portion of the canton of Upatee), in lat. 

 7° 20^ N., find long. 65° W. from Greenwich ; about 100 miles south from the 

 island of Piacoa, in the Orinoco river, and 200 miles south-east from Bolivar, 

 over the great plains of Venezuela. 



Nov. 2Mh. 

 The President, Dr. Hays, in the Chair. 

 Thirty-two members present. 



The chairman of the Curators announced that B. Waterhouse 

 Hawkins, F. G. S., had presented to the Academy a restored skele- 

 ton of the Hadrosaurus Foulkii, on which the following resolutions 

 were offered and adopted : 



Resolved, That the Academy entertain a deep sense of obligation to Mr. Haw- 

 kins for his valuable donation of a restored skeleton of Hadrosaurus Foulkii, — 

 a gift which will constitute an especial attraction and a prominent object of 

 interest in our museum. 



Resolved, That the profound palffontological knowledge, artistic skill and 

 patient industry displayed by Mr. Hawkins in reconstructing from some frag- 

 mentary remains this huge creature of a former geological period, has gained 

 for him our respect and admiration, while his invariable courtesy and freedom 

 in imparting knowledge has secured our highest regards. 



Resolved, That the Academy full}' appreciate the great value of the efforts he 

 is making to ])opularize science ; efforts, the importance of which cannot be 

 too highly estimated. They will tend to benefit the community by expanding 

 the minds of the masses, and by furnishing to them higher and more ennobling 

 subjects for thought than can be afforded by the common ])ursuits of every-day 

 life. He will also advance science by increasing the numi)er of those who can 

 appreciate the labors of men of science, sympathize in their labors, and secure 

 for them objects of interest which would be thrown aside or destroyed by the 

 ignorant. 



Resolved, That the Academy tender to Mr. Hawkins its best wishes for his 

 health, happiness and prosperity. 



The following gentlemen were elected members : Wm. M. Dar- 



[Nov. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 305 



lington, Emil Fischer, M.D., Isaac C. Price, Jos. G. Richardson, 

 M.D., M. W. McAllister. 



Prof. H. J. Clark was elected a correspondent. 



On favorable report of the Committee, the following paper was 

 ordered to be published : 



Sixth Contribution to the HERPETOLOGY of Tropical America. 



BY EDWARD D. COPE, A.M. 



LoxoPHOLis RUGiCEPS Cope, gen. et sp. nov. 



Fam. Ecpleopodidas. The scales imbricate, arranged in oblique rows or 

 quincuncially ; the exposed portion triangular, strongly keeled. Prefrontals, 

 frontoparietals, parietals and interparietal plates distinct. Lateral and gular 

 scales like dorsal ; ventral broad, smooth ; no gular collar, no lateral fold. 

 Toes 5 — 5, all unguiculate. ? Femoral pores. Eyelid with transparent disc. 



This genus differs from Cercosaura only in the squamation, which is of a 

 character entirely different from that of any other genus of the group except 

 Tretioscincus Cope, where the scales are also arranged after the type of the 

 Scincidffi. 



Char, specificux. — Tall moderately long, limbs well developed. Canthus ros- 

 tralis a right angle, lores straight, top of head flat. Two loreals or preoculars 

 between nasal and eye. Four superciliaries. Four supraorbitals. Internasal 

 long as broad, prefrontals largely in contact. Frontal twice as long as broad, 

 angulate before and behind. Fronto-parietals and the large inter-parietal 

 longer than broad; parietals rounded externally. Labials five, long and narrow, 

 third and fourth under orbit, with a narrow series of scales between. Inferior 

 labials five, narrow ; a large syniphyseal; behind this a still larger mental, 

 behind which follow on each side a row of three large and two small infrala- 

 bials, of which the first two pairs are in contact. Temporal scales keeled. 

 Auricular opening large, a half disc, the truncation behind. Twenty rows of 

 lance-triangnlar scales on back and both sides, and four rows of smooth ab- 

 dominal scales, which are broader than long. Six large pra;anal plates, five 

 reaching the margin, the two outer narrow, the median short. Scales of the 

 limbs large-keeled. No pores on the femur in the specimen. Caudal scales 

 like those of the back of Pantodactylus, — i. c, elongate parallelogrammic. in 

 whorls and keeled; keels stronger below than above. The hind limb laid for- 

 wards will reach the wrist of the anterior when appressed. Inner fingers and 

 toes very small; lengths of fingers 1 — 2 — 5 — 3 — 4 ; of toes 1 — 5 — 2 — 3—4. 



The plates of the top of the head are rugose, with longitudinal stric-e, which 

 are not close, and more or less interrupted. 



In. Lin. 



Total length (end of tail lost) 4 5-5 



Length head to vent .. 18 2 



" axilla 7-2 



" " ear 4 



" hind limb 6-6 



" " foot 3-5 



•' fore limb 4-8 



Color above yellowish-brown, with a narrow blackish band on each side 

 from the upper margin of the meatus to near the end of the tail A median 

 pair of bands appear near the rumj), and continue half the length of the tail, but 

 are very indistinct. The upper and lower labial plates with a continuous 

 transverse black band through the middle of each. Throat, belly and tail be- 

 low unspotted, yellow. 



Hahitat. — This Saurian is a native of the Magdalera River region. New Gre- 

 nada, whence it was brought by Schulte Buckow, naturalist, and presented to 



1868.] 




306 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



our Museum in Philadelphia by J. Carson Brevoort. Specimens of Tretioscin- 

 cus bifasciatus Dum., and Dendrobates ti a c t o ri u 3 accompanied it. 



Oerrhonotus auritds Cope, sp. nov. 



This species is distinguished by its strong massive head, witli a series of 

 elongate conic flexible processes above the auricular meatus. 



Muzzle flattened, canthus rostralis wanting. Each of the posterior pair of 

 supranasals divided in two, the posterior parts on each side the rhombic inter- 

 nasal. Five supraoculars and five supraorbitals ; other plates of the head nor- 

 mal ; they graduate into the nuchals by three cross-rows of scales. Temples 

 much swollen, but not angularly. Upper labials eight large and two small ; 

 lower labials nine, with two rows of infralabials ; the inner of four large scales, 

 tlie third largest. Side of neck and axilla coarsely granular ; above the ear 

 four long conic flexible processes, with two or three shorter below them. 

 Scales of back and belly small for the genus, in sixteen longitudinal and 

 twenty-six transverse series, from nape to groin. They are bony, and strongly 

 but finely keeled. Ventral plates smooth, in 14 longitudinal rows. The lateral 

 fold is slight, and contains about three rows of coarse granules. 



The ground color is pea-green, more or less shaded with yellow; the rugosi- 

 ties of the scales everywhere black. Blackish green shades form indistinct Vs 

 directed backwards on the middle of the back. Below yellowish, with dirty 

 green shades. Eyelids and auriuular processes yellow. Length to vent 5 in. ; 

 to axilla 2 in.; to ear 21-5 1.; to orbit 4-5 1.; greatest width of head 12-5 1. 

 Length fore limb 15-5 1. ; of hind limb 20 1. ; of foot 10-2 1. The tail is short 

 (3 in. 10-2 1.), and covered with bony scales, but I am not sure it has not been 

 early reproduced. 



This, the most singular species of the genus, is only equalled in beauty by 

 the G. g r am i n e u s m. of Mexico, which it resembles. The latter has larger 

 scales, a longer muzzle, and a much more angulate temporal region; the occi- 

 put is also well marked off from the nape by one projecting cross-row behind 

 the postparietal, while there are three in G. a u r i t u s. Finally, its post-supra- 

 nasals are not divided. Both these species are allied to the G. t se n i a t u s 

 and G. d e p p e i of Wiegmann. Gray refers the latter to a genus Abronia, 

 but a regular gradation of characters connect them with the other Gerrhonoti. 



This is one of the Reptilian forms which inhabit the vast forests of Vera 

 Paz, in the neighborhood of the ancient cities of Peten and Cobau. Museum 

 Smithsonian, Henry Hague discoverer. 



HoLCOSUS BRiDGESii Cope, sp. nov. 



This species is near the H. sexscutatus Giinther, having quite the same 

 coloration, that is, dark olive, with a pale vertebral band from the end of the 

 muzzle aud a lateral black band from the orbit, which is white-bordered above 

 and below. The superior white line is much interrupted in this species. Top 

 of head brown, below uniform light green. It differs considerably in the scu- 

 tellation of the head. There is a pair of confluent supra- and prenasals in 

 contact medially, and these are succeeded by a pentagonal iuternasal, but from 

 this point tiie squamation is different; thus three plates represent each pre- 

 frontal, while some eighteen take the place of the frontal. Behind this point 

 they are too numerous to homologize, except that a small median occipital is 

 surrounded by series of tubercular or keeled scales, which are arranged in 

 curved series running behind the occipital. The frontal scales are in three 

 series, two larger superciliaries which are strongly keeled, and a median flat 

 row, with those of the muzzle arranged quite as in species of Anales. Supra- 

 orbitals two on each side, each a half-ellipse, keeled on the inner margin, sur- 

 rounded by granules except the anterior, which is in contact with the super- 

 ciliaries. 



The throat fold is covered with granular scales ; Giinther says H. sexscu- 

 tatus has a series of shields. He also states that the hind limb extended 

 only reached to the posterior margin of orbit ; in the present species it reaches 



[Nov. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 307 



considerably in front of the orbit. Giinther gives twenty femoral pores ; in 

 the present there are twenty-four on each side. 



In other respects, as to sqnamation, scutellation, etc., Giinther's description 

 applies to this species. See Proc. Zool. Soc. Lond. 1859. The allied H. 

 s e p teml in eat u s A. Dum. differs in the less divided scales of the front, 

 as well as in being seven-banded. 



This Saurian is dedicated to my friend Robert Bridges, M.D., Professor of 

 Chemistry in the Philadelphia College of Pharmacy, and an active member of 

 the Academy of Natural Sciences. 



The species is represented by one specimen in the Museum of the Academy. 



Opheomorphus mimus Cope, sp. nov. 



This is the only species of the genus which has the black annuli on red 

 ground, characteristic of Erythrolamprus and other genera of American Coro- 

 nellines, Elaps, etc. Its general appearance is exactly that of E. v e n u s t i s s i- 

 m u s with single rings, or Ophibolus micropholis with confluent rings. 

 It agrees entirely with other species of this genus in double anal, short tail, 

 diacranterian dentition and lack of scale-pores, but is slightly abnormal in the 

 rudimental condition of the loreal plate ; it is on one side entirely wanting. 



Superior labials seven, eye over third and fourth, fifth largely in contact 

 with postoculars. First, the only one longer than high. Muzzle short, head 

 slightly distinct. Internasals transverse; orbitals 1 — 2, the anterior not reach- 

 ing frontal. Temporals 1 — 2. Scales in 15 series, broad as long. Frontal 

 with straight sides convergent behind ; its length greater than its breadth, and 

 longer than common suture of occipitals, though shorter than greatest length 

 of the latter. Tail 6-8 times in total length ; i. e., 2 in. 3 1. out of 13 in. 6 1. 



General color crimson, each scale with a brown spot near its tip. Ten black 

 rings of 3 and 3-5 scales in width cross the body. They are sometimes divided, 

 and the halves alternate ; they are complete across the belly, but have a ten- 

 dency to divide, especially the posterior. One pair of complete annuli on the 

 tail, and four spots above near the tip. No black collar, chin uniform : head 

 above and spot below eye black ; plates on sides of muzzle and temples black- 

 edged. 



The long posterior maxillary tooth of this species presents a singular struc- 

 ture. Its section is triangular, two of the sides being shallow concave. The 

 angle between these is the section of an acute posterior ridge of the tooth ; the 

 anterior face of the tooth is convex. The posterior sides being slightly concave 

 to the tip, in some lights suggest the presence of the groove of Erythrolamprus 

 and other genera, but both are similar, and neither is a true groove. 



The habitat of this species is a mining district in the higher regions of Equa- 

 dor or New Grenada, but the exact locality I cannot fix. It was found with the 

 following species: Anolis f r a s e r i Gthr., Rhabdosoma microrhynchum 

 Cope, Holcosus bridgesii Cope, Opheomorphus mimus Cope, Amphis- 

 baena f u 1 i g i n o s a L., Masticophis pulchriceps Cope, and Elaps s ae v u s 

 Cope. 



Specimens in Mus. Academy from Edward Day, of the Assay Department of 

 Columbia College, New York. 



LlOPHIS FLAVITORQUES CopC, Sp. nOV. 



This is a small and aberrant species of the genus. Its peculiarity consists 

 in a projecting rostral plate, as in Lygophis conirostris Gthr., which is 

 consequently developed on the upper aspect of the muzzle. The tail is also 

 rather longer than in any other species, its length entering the total 3-2 times. 

 In this it approaches Dromicus. 



Internasal plates about as long as wide; prefrontals considerably wider than 

 long. Frontal with superciliary borders each one-third the anterior suture, 

 and about half the occipital ; thus the plate is very wide, with a long produced 

 posterior angle. Each nasal higher than long, narrower than the loreal ; latter 

 higher than long, straight above, angulate below. Preocular higher than long, 



1868.J 




308 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



two postocnlars ; temporals 1 — 2. Superior labials seven, all higher than long 

 except the last, third and fourth bounding orbit. The eye small, pupil round. 

 Inferior labials seven, the fourth as long as an}' three others, the first well de- 

 veloped behind sjmphyseal. Geneials short, the posterior half the length of 

 the anterior, and separated by a plate. Scales in seventeen series, rather 

 broad, subequal. Gastrosteges 188; anal 1 — 1; urosteges 105. Total length 

 17-5 inches ; of tail 5•.^ inches. 



Everywhere above dark brown, except a broad yellow half collar which 

 crosses the posterior half of the occipital shields and two rows of scales. Below 

 dirty yellowish. 



This serpent is from the Magdalena river, New Grenada. Brought by Schulte 

 Buckow, of New York. 



The physiognomy of the head of this species is somewhat like that of Oxyr- 

 rhopus, though the characters are different. 



LiopHis PERSiMiLis Cope, sp. nov. 



This species is very much like the Coniophanes fissiden s Gthr. in gene- 

 ral appearance ; it differs generically in its uuiporous scales and entire poste- 

 rior maxillary tooth. It also resembles Rhadinasa o b t u s a, but differs also in 

 dentition and pores. The form is more like the latter than the former, as the 

 head is relatively small. 



Scales in 17 rows. Frontal nearly as wide as superciliary suture ; occipi- 

 tals long, truncate behind; supranasals very small. Postnasal much larger 

 than prenasal, loreal nearly square ; preocular one, narrow, not approaching 

 frontal. Two postoculars. Seven upper labials, eye over third and fourth ; 

 postoculars two ; temporals 1 — 2 — 3. Inferior labials seven ; post-genials 

 longer than pre-genials. Gastrosteges 131 and 1 — 1. Urosteges 70. 



Total length 11 in. 3 1. ; of tail 3 in. 3 1. Above light brown, with a dark 

 brown band on each side, from the neck to the end of the tail, which is dark 

 bordered above on the lower edge of the fourth row of scales. Labial plates 

 white edged above. Belly and tail below yellow, a black dot on the edge of 

 each scutum and scutellum. 



From Rio de Janeiro, Brazil ; brought by the Thayer expedition. Mus. Com- 

 par. Zoology, No. 436, 



CONOPHIS PULCHER CopC, Sp. nOV. 



Scales in nineteen longitudinal rows. Loreal a little longer than high ; 

 orbitals 1 — 2, temporals 2 — 3. Muzzle rather projecting. Head little distinct. 

 Superior labials, eight, higher than long except the last, fourth and fifth form- 

 ing orbit below. Gastrosteges 73, anal 1 — I ; urosteges 67. Total length 

 29 in. 3 1., of tail 6 in. 3 1. ; of gape 9-2 1. 



Six dark longitudinal bands on a light ground. First a black band along 

 the middle of the first row ; second a dark brown black edged on the third and 

 half the second and fourth; third a similar broadly black margined on the 

 eighth and half the seventh and ninth, separated from its fellow on the other 

 side by a median stripe of only one scale in width which is black edged. This 

 median baud disappears on the nape, leaving a broad band to the end of the 

 muzzle, extending over the occipitals and superciliaries. The lateral band ex- 

 tends in like manner to the end of the muzzle including the upper edges of 

 the labials. Throat clouded with blackish below. Belly yellow with a few 

 specks on each end of the gastrosteges. Upper labials broadly brown edged 

 below. The bands extend to the end of the tail. 



From near Peten, Vera Paz. Henry Hague ; Museum Smithsonian. 



This handsome species is near the C. vittatus Peters, but differs in many 

 points of coloration, and in having one more labial shield above and below. 

 From G. 1 i n e a t u s D. and B., it differs also very much in coloration. 



Helicops fumigatcs Cope, sp. nov. 

 Scales iu nineteen rows, keeled anteriorly and posteriorly, lower rows smooth. 



[Nov. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 809 



Two pairs geneials ; occipitals short and broad. Dark brown, -with numerous 

 lighter or darli gray cross bands, which are blacked edged, and extend to the 

 first row of scales, and are sometimes interrupted on the vertebral line. Belly 

 with a broad brownish gray band from throat to vent, the ends of the gastro- 

 steges yellow, forming two bands ; a median longitudinal brown line on the 

 tail. 



Tail 3-3 times in length. The plates of the head and other peculiarities are 

 quite like those of H. a n g u 1 a t u s. 



From Surinam, Mus. Academy Natural Sciences. Discovered by Chas. 

 Hering, M.D. 



Helicops CYCLOPS Cope, sp. nov. 



Scales in nineteen rows, strongly keeled everywhere, including the first row. 

 Two pairs geneials ; occipitals short and wide, long as frontal. 



Head exceedingly short, mouth wide as the length of the rounded lip mar- 

 gin. Superior labials eight, fourth scarcely entering orbit by its upper corner 

 (by its whole extremity in H. a n gu 1 at u s), the fifth, sixth and seventh nar- 

 row and high. Prefrontals broad as long (much broader than long in H. a n g u- 

 latus). Orbitals 1 — 2, nearly meeting below orbit. Temporals 2 | 1 | 3 

 (1 I 1 I 3 in H. a ng u 1 a t u s). Loreal plate wide as high, (higher than wide 

 in H. a n g u 1 a t u s). 



Tail -33 total length, slender (less than -25, H. angulatus). Gastrosteges 

 124, anal 1 — 1 ; urosteges 89. 



Light yellowish brown, with twenty-six transverse deep brown rhombs 

 across the back which terminate at the second row of scales, being separated 

 from the back ventral cross-bar, which is opposite each, by a longitudinal yel- 

 low band. This band is not distinct between the spots. Belly strong yellow 

 with jet black cross bars, which are on more than two gastrosteges. Tail 

 black, spotted below. A brown cross-band between the eyes. 



Length 27-5 inches. From Bahia, Brazil. Mus. Academy, from Dr. Otho 

 Wucherer. 



This species is at first sight much like the H. angulatus, but differs vari- 

 ously as above. In coloration the spots in the latter are always continued into 

 the ventral cross-bars, and not interrupted as in A. c y c 1 o p s. 



The species of the genus are as follows : H. carinicauda Nieuw. H. 

 modestus Gthr. H. leprieurii Dum. Bibr. H. chrysostictus 

 Cope. H. in f r a t ae n i a t u s Jan. H. f u m ig a tu s Cope. H.cy clops 

 Cope. H. an g ul a t u s Linn. H p o 1 y 1 e p i s Gthr. The following s])ecies 

 have been erroneously referred to this genus : //. waffleriJun. is Tretanorhinus 

 variabilis Dum. Bibr. //. agassizi Jan. is T. n i g r o 1 u t e u s Cope, //•. 

 Kc/datosus Jan. is Atretium s c h i s t o s u m Daudin, and //. mortuarius Jan. is 

 Tropidonotus m or tuarius (Boie) Schlegel [Tropidinotus ferox Giinther). 



Thrasops pr.^stans Cope. 



The largest species of the genus, exceeding considerably the T. fl avigu- 

 lari s of Hallowell. The length of one sp. is 6 ft. 3 in., of which the tail is 

 2 ft. Si in., while the body of another measures 4ft. 6 in., giving a total of 

 seven ft. 1 in. Length head to end of quadratum In in. 10 1., width between 

 superciliary margins 8 lines, diameter orbit 4 1. ; from orbit to end of muzzle 

 )) lines. 



The head is very distinct, and the muzzle rather short for the genus ; the 

 eyes are very large. Rostral plate small, postnasal lower than prenasal ; place 

 of the loreal entirely occupied by the prefrontals Orbitals 1 — 2, tlie anterior 

 not quite reaching the frontal. Frontal one-sixth longer than wide in front, with 

 concave sides and short posterior angle. Occipitals broad, short, divaricate 

 behind; temporals 1—2. Superior labials nine, fifth and sixth in orbit, last 

 two longer than high. Inferior labials 11, the anterior very wide ; postgeni- 

 als longer than pregenials. 



Scales in fifteen rows for a part of the length, in eleven, on the posterior 



1868.] 




310 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



half of the body. They are without pores on the side, but are uniporous on 

 most of the rows. All the rows except the inferior, are carinate. On the 

 middle and posterior part of the length, that of the vertebral becomes obso- 

 lete, and then vanishes, while those of the two on each side, especially the 

 superior, become very strong. Tail entirely smooth. Gastrosteges 180. Anal 

 divided ; urosteges 176 ; the first are strongly turned up at the sides, and not 

 angulate. 



The teeth increase in length gradually to the posterior end of the maxillary 

 bone, where the last is abruptly the largest; they are strong, and eleven in 

 number. 



Color everywhere bluish green without metallic reflection, the keels of all 

 the scales black. 



This beautiful species was sent to the Smithsonian Institution by its corres- 

 pondent Henry Hague, near Peten, Guatemala, 



Leptodira pacifica. 



Scales in nineteen series, biporous, all nearly equal. Body cylindric, neck 

 little compressed ; head short, broad. Oculars 2 — 2, loreal higher than long. 

 Superior labials seven ; eye over third and fourth. Temporals I — 2. Frontal 

 longer than broad, with straight parallel borders ; occipital elongate, truncate 

 behind. Internasals long as wide, one-third prefrontals. The superior pre- 

 aud postoculars are both much larger than the inferiors Gastrosteges 164, 

 anal 1 — 1, urosteges 61 pairs. Length of head and body 7 in. 3 1, of tail 

 2 in. 



Color above bright rose-brown, with four series of blackish-brown, very small 

 spots, of which the median pair forms usually a short cross-bar by their 

 union ; in this case they extend over five series of scales. The lateral spots 

 are on the fifth row, and cover half a scale. A broad black bar across the 

 nape ; a short brown line behind each eye, and a number of dots on the 

 crown. Below uniform cream color. 



The above description is derived from a young animal. It was given to the 

 Smithsonian Institution by its correspondent, G. BischofF, and sent to me for 

 examination. In its characters it approaches the species of Hypsiglena [Pseu- 

 dodipsas Peters,) but has a grooved maxillary tooth and double scale-pores. It 

 has different labials, scales and coloration, from the L. annulata. 



Leptodira personata Cope, sp. nov. 



Body slightly compressed, neck contracted, head elongate, narrowed in front 

 of ihe orbits. Scales equal, biporous, in twenty-three rows. Internasals 

 broader than long, frontal elongate, with parallel sides, superciliaries narrowed, 

 occipitals narrowed, elongate, rounded behind. Temporals 1 — 2 ; oculars 1 — 

 2, anterior barely reaching frontal ; loreal long as high. Superior labials 

 eight, fourth and fifth in orbit. Geneials equal. Gastrosteges 173, anal 1 | 1 | , 

 urosteges ? (tail mutilated). Length head and body, six inches. 



General color cream, with broad black cross-bands on the dorsal region. 

 These extend from the gastrosteges anteriorly, posteriorly from the first series 

 of scales. There are twenty-three between nape and vent, which are wider 

 than the intervals. Top of head except upper labials entirely black ; a broad 

 yellowish collar. Below immaculate. 



The Smithsonian collections have received this species from Mazatlan, 

 Western Mexico, from G. Bischoflf. It was sent with the Leptodira pacifica, 

 Agalychnis dacnicolor Cope, and Holbrookia b i s c h o f f i Cope and other 

 species. 



Phimothyra decurtata Cope. 



This species resembles considerably the species of Lytorhynchus Peters, 

 which genus in Africa represents the American Phimothyra. They differ only 

 in dentition, the former being diacranterian, the latter rather coryphodont. 



This species is distinguished by many features. The head is shortened and 



[Nov. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 311 



somewhat arched, the rostral plate very broad and free, entirely separating the 

 internasals. There is a complete annulus of scales round the eye. The tail is 

 relatively shorter than in the known species. 



Ground color light grey; a series of elongate parallelogrammic brown 

 blotches occupies the dorsal region, from the nape to the end of the tail. Labi- 

 als and under surfaces unspotted. 



Length about fourteen inches. This serpent is remarkably different from 

 the three already known representatives of the genus. In these the orbit rests 

 on the labials, and the color is in bands. 



Presented to the Mus. Acad. Nat. Sci. by Wm. M. Gabb, who discovered it 

 in the upper part of Lower California. 



Peltaphryne lemue Cope, sp. nov. 



This is a toad of singular aspect, owing to the extraordinary development of 

 the bony crests of the cranium and the large size of its eyes. 



The muzzle is short and very much flattened, projecting much beyond the 

 mouth. The upper lip forms indeed a strongly projecting bony rim all round 

 the mouth. Loreal region very concave, canthus concave and very close to- 

 gether. The superciliary crests are extraordinarily elevated, having an arched 

 outline, and descending steeply to the loreal region. It is angulate posteri- 

 orly, joining the almost equally developed supratympanic ridge. The crown 

 of the head is thus a deep basin, widened above the tympana, and obstructed 

 by a cross- elevation in front. Strong ridges behind and before the orliit ; nos- 

 trils vertical, a short bonj* longitudinal ridge below them. According to the 

 characters of the genus there is no derm on the head. Tympanum vertically 

 oval. Parotoids broad oval, directed obliquelj' downwards, covered like the 

 remainder of the upper surfaces of the body and limbs, with numerous closely 

 placed sub-round tubercles, with rugose surfaces. Feet rather short, with 

 small tubercles, and only one remarkably weak metatarsal tubercle, the inner. 

 A strong corneous ridge on the inner margin of the tarsus. The heel reaches 

 the middle of the parotoid. The toes are about half-webbed, and have a strong 

 dermal margin. Two strong carpal tubercles. Under surfaces studded with 

 small tubercles, with acute points. Tongue obovate, largely free. 



In. Lin. 



Length head and body 4 5-5 



" toaxilla , 2 



" " posterior margin tympanum 15 



" " anterior margin orbit G 



" of fore limb 2 5 5 



" " hind limb 4 35 



" " " foot 2 4 



Width of head behind 17-5 



" interorbital space 8-5 



" topof muzzle Iv5 



The color above is a blackish-brown, the top of the head yellow shaded ; 

 two longitudinal brown spots on the frontal region. A light vertebral line 

 disappears on the back and reappears on the coccyx, and another light line 

 passes round the inside of the parotoids and diverges on the scapular region. 

 Limbs yellowish cross-banded, below dirty white, below the vent blackish. 



This curious animal was found by George Latimer, the correspondent of the 

 Smithsonian Institution in Porto Rico, W. I. We are indebted to the same 

 zoologist for the following species : 

 Peltaphryne lemur Cope. 

 Cystigxathus albilabris Gthr. var. 

 Hemidactylu.s mabuia Cuv. 

 Mabuya fulgida Cope. 



DlPLOGLOSSUS DEGKNKR CopC. 



1868.] 




312 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Anolis velifer Cuvier. The female of this species would fall in the " genus" 



Euprhtis Fit'i.= Dactyloa Gray. 

 Typhlops sp. 



Chilabothrus inornatus Dura. Bibr. Only found elsewhere in Jamaica. 

 Alsophis sancticrucis Cope (=.4. melanichnus Cope). 



Otaspis empusa Cope. Pellaphryne empusa Cope, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sciences, 

 Philad. 1862, p. 344. 



This species does not belong to Peltaphryne, but to a genus which I now 

 name. It differs from the former in the existence of an additional superficial 

 arch of the skull, w^iich passes from the mastoid region behind the auricular 

 meatus, thus enclosing the latter, and causing it to be a mere foramen perfo- 

 rating a shield of bone. This is the only genus of living Batrachia in which 

 the external ear is thus completed behind. It is a tendency of Peltaphryne 

 carried to its highest extreme. 



Cuba ; found by Prof. Poey. 



Lystris brachyops Cope, sp. et gen. nor. Cystignatbidarum. 



Tribe Pleurodenue, same group as Pleurodema, differing only from that genus 

 in the presence of two strong shovel-like metatarsals, as in the genus Systoma. 



Its characters are, therefore : cranium with a fronto-parietal fontanelle ; xi- 

 phisternum an osseous st3ie, with furcate cartilage disc. Vomerine and max- 

 illary teeth well developed ; a large inguinal gland ; two metatarsal shovels. 



It differs from Gomphobates in its fontanelle and vomerine teeth, but is in- 

 termediate between this genus and Pleurodema, showing that the tribes Plen- 

 rodemae and Cystignathi should be closely approximated. It differs onlj', so 

 far as we know the characters, from Eupemphix Steind , in the presence of a 

 well-developed dentition in adults as well as young. The other characters of 

 Eupemphix are not yet known, or whether it is nearer this genus or Gompho- 

 bates. Steindachner's second species of Eupemphix I would refer here, and 

 call it Lystris f u s c om ac ul a t u s . Name of the genus from Aur^poy, a 

 trowel. 



Char, specificu-s. — Vomerine teeth in two short oblique series directed for- 

 wards between the nares, about as far from the latter as from each other. 

 Tongue a flat oval, one-third free. Head broad, occiput slightly swollen, can- 

 liius rostralis straight, obtuse, convergent; loreal region vertical plane. Di- 

 ameter of bony orbit equal length of muzzle ; the latter contracted, elevated, 

 rounded in profile ; nostrils nearer end than orbit. Membranum tympani one- 

 third orbit. Ostia large as nares. Males only with a subgular sac, with large 

 lateral slits. Limbs short, stout; the heel barely reaching the tympanum. 

 Toes quite short, free, without dermal margins. No tarsal median tubercle or 

 fold. Inguinal gland large subovate. Skin smooth above and below ; a few 

 ill-defined warts on the back. Lengths of fingers 3 — 2 — 1 — 4. 



In. Lin. 



Length head and body 1 8-5 



'• muzzle to posterior edge tympanum 7 



" hindlimb 2 2 



" foot 12-5 



" tarsus 4-8 



Width head just behind tympanum 6-4 



Color above dark brown, with several darker brown broad irregular bands, 

 which cross the back in three places or are broken into spots, and are sometimes 

 confluent longitudinally. Sides with dark brown lines and specks. Lip with 

 two vertical brown bands on each side. Inguinal glands black, white speckled. 

 Limbs brown, deeper banded; sole from heel dark brown. Below yellow, gular 

 region brown. 



Magdalena River, New Grenada, Schulte Buckow, collector. 



[Nov. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 313 



Spelerpes lineolus Cope, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Philad. 18G5, 196. Ophio- 

 batrachus vermicularis Gray, Ann. Mag. N. Hist. 1868, 297. 



This species varies somewhat in the relative length of the tail. One of the 

 specimens from Cordova, Vera Cruz, measures as follows : head and body 17-3 

 lines ; tail 2 in. 10-4 lines. 



In the collections of the Smithsonian Institution. 



Grotriton carbonarius Cope. 



A uniformly black variety of this species occurs in the high lands of Guate- 

 mala, and another with two dorso-lateral ochre bauds is found in Yucatan. 

 Mus. Smithsonian, 



Dec. 1st. 

 The President, Dr. Hays, in the Chair. 



Thirty-five members present. 



The following papers were presented for publication : 



" Notice of some remains of extinct Insectivora from Dakota." 

 By Dr. J. Leidy. 



" Observations on Reptiles of the Old World. Art. II." By 

 Edw. D. Cope. 



" Notes on some points in the structure and habits of the Palse- 

 ozoic Crinoidea." By F. B. Meek and A. H. Worthen. 



Dr. Leidy exhibited some specimens of Mica recently received from West- 

 port, Canada, remarkable for the beauty and distinctness of its asterism, pror 

 duced by minute acicular crystals profusely scattered between the laminae. 

 The star exhibited twelve equidistant rays, exceeding in strength any previ- 

 ously seen by him in varieties of the mineral. 



Prof. Cope made some observations on some extinct reptiles of interest. 

 One of these, represented by a single sacro-caudal vertebra from Swedesboro', 

 N. J., indicated a second species of Elasmosaurus. It was of equal size with 

 the corresponding one of the Kansas specimens, but differed in the square and 

 uncontracted form of the centrum, and greatei stoutness of the diapophyses. 

 He called it E. orientalis. 



Another reptile was represented by a vertebra, tooth, and portion of mandi- 

 ble. It was a gavial-like crocodile, which if of proportions similar to those of 

 the Gangetic species, would indicate an animal of thirty feet in length. It 

 belonged to the genus Thecachampsa Cope, and was allied to the T. antiqua 

 {Crocodilus Leidy), but differed in the more compressed knife-like tooth crowns. 

 Miocene of Maryland. 



He also exhibited bones and teeth of a large Rodent from the cave deposits 

 of Anguilla, one of the Virgin West India Islands. The characters observed 

 were those of the genus Chinchilla, but the roots of the teeth were contracted 

 and not so open as in many Rodents, as though having a more limited period 

 of growth, or perhaps like deciduous teeth, which are much reduced in num- 

 ber in most Rodents. The species was nearly as large as the Castoroides o h i o- 

 en s i s of North America, but had relatively smaller incisor teeth. The body 

 was probably as large as that of the Virginia deer, and the limb bones as 

 stout, as seen in portions of femora and other pieces preserved. He called the 

 animal Amblyrhiza ixu.vdata, and thought that its discovery on so small an 

 island, with others of like character, indicated that the Carribean continent . 

 had not been submerged prior to the close of the Post-pliocene, and that its 

 connection was with other Antilles, while a wide strait separated it from the 

 then comparatively remote shores of North America. 



1868.J 21 




314 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Mr. Meehan stated that it is a fact well-known to most of us, that the WiS' 

 teria sinensis, as we find it cultivated, rarely produces fruit. The large seed 

 vessels I now present are from a plant I have which bears abundantly. Why 

 it does so 1 think may prove of interest to the members. 



A few years ago Darron discovered motion in tendrils. Subsequently, in a 

 paper published in our Proceedings, 1 showed that this motion required nutri- 

 tion for its force, which was so much abstracted from growth. I explained by 

 this what had hitherto been a mystery, why grapes grew more freely and 

 healthy when running over trees, than when exhausting their vigor in fruit- 

 less motion to find something to cling to. I referred to many plants on which 

 I had experimented, amongst others Wisteria sinensis ; a plant was trained a few 

 feet hign and then left to support itself. It took all its food to fight gravita- 

 tion. Since then it has continued to grow as a bush or small round-headed 

 tree, unless a branch happens to extend to the ground, or a neighboring bush, 

 when such branch will push forth with its old time vigor. In proportion as 

 this plant has lost the power of growth, it assumes a reproductive power. 

 This year from my little Wisteria tree I have gathered a half-peck of seed 

 pods. 



That weakened vigor is favorable to reproduction is well known to the 

 horticulturist. Hence the operations of root pruning, transplanting, summer 

 pruning, and ringing the bark. The novelty of this Wisteria incident is that 

 an excessive draft on the force necessary to overcome gravitation in the 

 ascending plant is also an enfeebling cause. 



The facts I have given have a three-fold interest. To the structural botanist, 

 enabling him to get specimens of fruit for examination hitherto hard to be ob- 

 tained; to the horticulturist, furnishing him with the means of freely propaga- 

 ting a plant hitherto rather difficult to increase, and to the natural 

 philosopher, furnishing an additional illustration of what I have hitherto 

 advanced, that growth in a great measure is a struggle with gravitation, requiring 

 great efforts by the nutritive powers of the plant to sustain it. 



Dec. Sfh. 

 The President, Dr. Hays, in the Chair. 

 Thirty-one members present. 



Dec. 15th. 

 The President, Dr. Hays, in the Chair. 



Thirty-four members present. 



The following paper was presented for publication : 

 " On the seed vessels of Forsythia." By Thos. Meehan. 

 Mr. Cope offered the following resolution which was adopted : 

 Resolved, That the Academy of Natural Sciences present their 

 thanks to Theophilus H. Turner, M. D., U. S. A., for his very 

 valuable gift of the skeleton of the great extinct reptile, the Elas- 

 mosaurus platyurus, from the neighborhood of Fort Wallace, Kan- 

 sas. 



Dec. 22d. 

 The President, Dr. Hays, in the Chair. 

 Thirty- four members present. 



[Dec. 




\ 

 NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 315 



The following papers were presented for publication : 



"Remarks on some new types of Carboniferous Crinoidea, with 

 descriptions of new forms." By F. B. Meek and A. H. Worthen. 



"Descriptions of seven new species of American Birds from vari- 

 ous localities, with a note on Zonotrichia melanotis." By Geo. N. 

 Lawrence. 



"Analytical table of the species of Baridius inhabiting the United 

 States." By John L. LeConte, M. D. 



" The Gyrinidas of America, north of Mexico." By John L. Le 

 Conte, M. D. 



" Notes on the species of Agonoderus, Bradycellus "and Stenolo- 

 l^hus inhabiting America, north of Mexico." By John L. LeConte. 



Dr. Leidy exhibited some photographs of fossil bones, received from Mr. W. 

 E. Webb, yec. of the National Land Co., at Topeka, Kansas. They represent 

 vertebra;, and fragments of jaws with teeth, of a skeleton of Mosasaurus, re- 

 ported by Mr. Webb to be about 70 feet in length, recently discovered on the 

 great plains of Kansas, near Fort Wallace. 



Dec. 2dth. 

 Mr. Jos. Jeanes in the Chair. 



Fifty-three members present. 



The following gentlemen were elected members : 



Albert Peale, Franklin Piatt, Jr., Edw. A. Spooner, M. D. 



The following were elected correspondents : 



Geo. Neville, of Calcutta, E. I. ; Rev. Dr. Joseph F. Berg, of New 

 Brunswick, N. J. 



The Committee to which was referred a paper, entitled " Phos- 

 phorus and Fatty Degeneration," reported in favor of its publication 

 in the American Journal of Medical Science. 



On favorable report of Committees, the following papers were 

 ordered to be published : 



Notice of some remains of extinct INSECTIVORA from Dakota. 



BY JOSEPH LEIDY, 



Dr. Hayden, in his trip to the Mauvaises Terres of White River, Dakota, in 

 the summer of 1866, discovered the remains of two genera of insectivorous 

 mammals, which appear to be peculiar, but related to the hedge-hogs. 



Leptictis Haydeni. This name, appropriate to one of the animals, is 

 founded upon a nearly entire skull devoid of the lower jaw. The specimen 

 belonged to a mature animal, as indicated by the complete and worn condi- 

 tion of the teeth ; but the skull retains most of its suiur^-s as distinctly as is 

 usual in the Opossums. It is less in size than that of the Mink, and its shHpe 

 is more canine than musteline. It bears some resemblance in form to that 

 of the insectivorous genua Giisorex, or to that of the viverniue genus 

 Eupleres. 



The cranium is remarkable for the possession of a pair of prominent ridges 

 defining the upper part of the temporal fossae, as in the fossil cranium repre- 

 sented by De Blainville (Osteographie, Mustela, pi. xiv) under the name of 

 Mustela plesictis from Auvergne, and by Gcrvais (Pal. Fran. pi. 28, fig. 2) 



1868.] 




316 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



under the name of Mustela angitstifrons. Similar ridges, relatively less well- 

 developed, exist in the Gray Fox. 



The orbits are as little distinct from the temporal fossae as in the Skunk or 

 the European Hedge-hog. 



The cranium back of the orbital spaces is conoidal and wider than high. 

 It is narrowest just back of the postorbital eminences ; relatively not so much 

 constricted as in the Mink or Fox, though more than in the Skunk or 

 European Hedge-hog. 



The face is long, and tapers evenly to the end of the snout. 



The palate is long, narrow and moderately arched, and exhibits no large 

 perforations as in the Opossums. 



Tlie fossil retains most of the teeth, the number of which consists of seven 

 molars, a canine and two incisors. 



Of the molars the posterior four have broad trilateral crowns, with a num- 

 ber of points or tubercles, as in the Opossums and Hedge-hogs, or the back 

 two in the Dog. The anterior three molars have simple, compressed conical 

 crowns. The canine is comparatively small. Whether the animal possessed 

 more than two incisors on each side is uncertain. 



Measurements from the specimen are as follows : 

 Estimated length of skull from occipital foramen to fore part of 



incisive alveoli 29 lines. 



Length of cranium from inion to fronto-nasal suture 18^ " 



Breadth at zygomata.. 17^ " 



Length of palate 15| " 



Length of molar series 11 " 



IcTOPS Dakotexsis. This name is founded on a small fragment of a skull 

 which was obtained with the preceding. At first the specimen was supposed 

 to bHlong to the same animal as the former. It clearly indicates a skull of 

 nearly the same size and shape as that oi Leptkiis. 



The fragment consists of a portion of the face, containing the remains of 

 most of the molar teeth. The face appears to have had nearly the same form 

 and construction as in Leptictis, and the forehead exhibits traces of the two 

 peculiar ridges defining the upper part of the temporal fossa? in the latter. 



The remains of the molars consist of the posterior six. The second pre- 

 molar appears to have been a two-fanged, conical crowned tooth, as in Lep- 

 tictis. The third premolar has a trihedral crown, inserted by three fangs, 

 whereas in Lepticti'i, as in the preceding tooth, it has a simple conical, crowu 

 with a pair of fangs. 



The crown of the third premolar of Ictops is composed of three principal 

 lobes, two external and the third internal. The four back molars have the 

 same relative position and size as regards one another as in Lepliclis, but they 

 do not project abruptly beyond the premolars externally as in this. Their 

 crowns, so far as can be ascertained, appear to have had the same construc- 

 tion as in the third premolar. 



The space occupied by the back six molars in Ictops is ten lines, being a 

 little more than in Leptictis. 



Observations oa REPTILES of the Old World. Art. II. 



BY E. D, COPE. 



Chxm.ele'O BAsiLTscrs Cope, sp. nov. 



This species pertains to group st. of Gray's arrangement of the species of 

 this genus (Proc. 2ool. Soc. Lond., 1864), that is, is nearest allied to 0. 

 V e r ru c o s u s Gray, and C. calyptratus A. Dum. It has therefore a 

 'high longitudinal crest on the supraoccipital region, and the supraoccipito- 

 mastoid crest is not furnished with any dermal margin of flap behind, but is 

 4be margio of a truncate face which is minutely scaled. No dorsal or ven- 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 317 



tral crests except a few ccnic scales above the scapula;. Gular region with 

 a weak crest. 



The occipital elevation is vertical behind, the lateral ribs but little oblique, 

 and joining the superciliary crest at a little more than a right angle. Medirta 

 crest very convex, nearly vertical below. Superciliary crests continuous, not 

 arched, descending straight and obliquely to the muzzle. None of the crests 

 dentellated. Scales everywhere granular, equal. Nine rows of subequal 

 scales between lateral and median occipital crests; six between canthus 

 on the muzzle. Tail little compressed. 



Color gray and leaden, with yellow shades. Three blackish radii back of 

 orbit. A yellow band from chin to vent. 



Total length 12 in. Muzzle to vent 5 in. 45 lines. Muzzle to orbit 6 lin. 

 Length of hind limb 2 in 6 1. 



This species was obtained at Korusko, Nubia, by Prof. H. A. Ward, and 

 placed in the Museum Peabody Acad., Salem, Mass. No. 489. 



This Charaaeleon resembles the C. v u 1 g a r i s, and is intermediate between 

 it and the C verrucosus. 



It may be observed that the Chamseleo b u re h e 1 i i of Hallowell cannot 

 be regarded as more than a variety of C. g r a n u 1 o s u s of the same author, 

 and that C. capeUii Du Bocage appears to be the same so far as the descrip- 

 tion goes. 

 Panaspis a:neos Cope, sp. et gen. nov. Scincidarum. 



Char, generxcus. Allied to Morethia Gray, differing only in the distinctness 

 of the fronto-parietals from each other and from the interparietal, all three 

 being united in the latter genus. No eyelid ; a supranasal ; rostral not 

 prominent. Limbs short, toes weak, 5 — 5. Scales smooth. 



Character specificus. Scales large, in twenty-four longitudinal series. Two 

 loreals, one behind the other ; two preoculars, one above the other. Fronto- 

 nasals broad as long, separated by frontal, which reaches the interuasal. 

 Frontal acute behind, smaller than each frontoparietal, but a little larger 

 than the interparietal. Lateral parietals meeting behind the last named, and 

 followed by two transverse scales each. Superciliaries and suparorbitals four 

 each. Two large marginal anal scales. 



General proportions slender, the head remarkably so, the tail proportion- 

 ately stout. The appressed extremities do not meet by the length of the 

 longest finger. Toes 1 and 5 equal, 3 and 4 nearly so, elongate. Inner finger 

 very small. Superior labials eight, fifth immediately below orbit, last three 

 scale-like, large ; anterior quadrate. Tail with cross scuta beneath. 



Total length 3 in. 5 lin. To vent 15 1.; to axilla 6 lin.; to ear 3 1.; to 

 orbit 1-2 1. Length fore limb 3 lin. ; hind limb 4-5 1 



Color. Golden olive above, darker behind, with a narrow golden line on 

 each side from the temple to the base of the tail. Sides above darker, be- 

 low lighter, pale spotted. A whitish line from below eye to near axilla. 

 Limbs and tail above brown, with small round white spots ; below greenish 

 white ; tail pale brownish beneath. 



Habitat. Probably Swan River, Australia ; possibly from South-Western 

 Africa. 



Name, from its complete cephalic scutellation, all the plates usual amonfr 

 lizards being present. 



EcMECES PERmcicoLOR Cope, sp. nov. 



Twenty-eight series of broad scales on the body, all entirely smooth. Body 

 fusiform, the limbs very short, with short but unequal toes. Tail cylindric. 



Rostral plate low, broad, prominent, but not acute. Infranasals as long 

 as broad, largely in contact. Internasal much broader than long ; fronto- 

 nasals small, widely separated. Frontal long, rounded behind ; fronto-pa- 

 rietals well in contact, large, rounded behind ; inter-parietal smaller than 

 the latter, parietals well in contact behind it. Dorsal scales equal, a little 



1868.] 




318 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



smaller than ventrals. Ear large, membrane deeply placed ; no marginal 

 tubercles or scales. Nasals not divided ; preloreal higher than postloreal ; 

 two preoculars. Superior labials seven, fourth long, below orbit, no sub- 

 orbital plate. A transverse symphyseal, and broad transverse mental. In- 

 ferior labials seven. 'Five supraorbital plates. Scales in front of vent 

 equal. 



In. Lin. 



End of muzzle to vent 3 3 



" " to axilla 13 



" " to orbit 2-7 



Length of fore limb 5-9 



" hind " 8-2 



Color above brown, uniform on the back, each scale with a large white 

 spot near the centre, on head, body and tail. Lower labial and gular scales 

 white, with a brown spot, upper labials brown, with a white spot ; white 

 below, all the scales brown edged ; in a younger specimen laterally, only in 

 an older all round. 



This well marked species is a native of Zanzibar. Mus. Academy and 

 Peabody Acad. No. 499. From H. F. Shepard. I have referred this species 

 to the genus nearly as restricted by Dr. Graj', including with it I'listodon and 

 Otosaurus of his catalogue, as forming together a definable genus. 



SEPSINA Bocage. 

 Sepsina grammica Cope. 



Scales in 22 rows. Limbs small, the anterior one-third the length of the 

 posterior ; toes 3 — 3. Nostril between four plates ; frontonasals and inter- 

 nasals united into a shield which is broader than long. Supraorbitals and 

 superciliaries four each on each side. Frontal concave behind, and wide as 

 long; interparietal nearly as wide, large ; two pairs of parietals, the interior 

 meeting behind ; two pairs transverse plates behind them. Nasal, loreal and 

 preorbital present ; rostral flattened, not acute. Eye over fourth labial. 

 Anal and abdominal plates equal. Ear minute. 



Length to ear 8" (French) ; to axilla 15''' 75''''''. Axilla to groin 5'' b'^. 

 Fore limb 2''^, posterior limb 7". Tail elongate, mutilated. 



Below brownish yellow, above fawn brown ; four rows of scales on each 

 side, with a diirk line in the centre, forming interrupted streaks. Hind limb 

 streaked above in the same way. Tail more distinct, spotted, on the under 

 surface faintly ; above dark banded. 



This species differs from the type described by Bocage, (Journal de Scien- 

 cias, Mathematicas, Physicas e Naturse Lisbon, 186(), 26), in its coloration, 

 in having two rows of scales less ; in having fore limbs very much smaller, 

 less than one-third the posterior, (they are more than one-half the same in 

 the S. an g o 1 e n s is Boc). In the latter the internasal and frontal are 

 much more elongate, and the interparietal very much smaller, according to 

 the description and figure of the above author. 



Museum of the Essex Institute. No. 512. Discovered by Edmunds Lovett, 

 on the South-West Coast of Africa. 



Oedura verrillii Cope. 



The femoral pores in a series arched angularly forwards and not extending 

 on the femora. The plates of the under surfaces df the toes are besides the 

 terminal discs, one pair only, as large as the terminal and at the end of the 

 antepenultimate phalange. Labials regular, 8 — 7 to below pupil ; two rows 

 itifralabials across chin. Rostral undivided. Gular scales granular ; thora- 

 cic and ventral flat, larger than the flat dorsals. Muzzle scales tubercular. 

 A tubercle on each side vent. Head as broad as from end of muzzle to half 

 way between orbit and ear. Color very pale above, with six very deep brown 

 cross bands from nape to sacrum, which are more or less connected on the 

 s des. A brown band through orbit, and one behind, crossing the occiput. 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 319 



Muzzle to ear 12^^; to axilla 20^^-5. Axilla to groin 25" ; tail lost. Fore 

 limb 13"; hind limb 18^^ 



With Diplodactylus m a r m o r a t u s Gray, from Australia. No. 724. Mus. 

 Comparative Zoology, Cambridge, Mass. 



Dedicated to my friend Addison E. Verrill, Professor of Zoology in Yale 

 College, Connecticut. 



[PEROPUS Wiegm. 



Three species of this genus before me differ from those described, and may 

 be compared as follows : 



I. The tail much depressed, and with a series of broad shields below. 

 Margin of tail minutely serrate; two internasal plates; mental plates 



abruptly different from gular scales, in one cross row of six, and smaller 

 ones at the angles in front of a straight cross-line. Pale brown with close 

 reddish speckles P. packardii. 



II. The tail broad, depressed, slender, with small scales below. 



A few internasals, two longitudinal rows, hexoganal mentals ; gray with 

 scattered brown spots P. mutilatus. 



III. Tail thickened, depressed, cylindric, without serration ; scaled below. 

 Four cross rows ovate mental plates, the posterior smaller ; three interna- 

 sals ; pink-grey, with brown later shade, with pairs of black dots on each 

 side the middle line, which form strife on the scapular and crural regions. 

 Tail subcylindric P. roseus. 



Two cross-rows ovate mentals, those behind graduating through several 

 rows to the gulars ; four internasals ; tail swollen ; light gray with a brown 

 band on each side P. pusillus. 



Peropus packakdii Cope. 



This is a stout species. Giinther's description of Peripia p e r o a i i Gray 

 applies well to this, but in our animal the toes are all strongly palmate at the 

 base. 



Upper labials 9 — 7 to under the eye, lower seven ; symphyseal large, trian- 

 gular. Gular scales very minute, ventials larger than laterals, and laterals 

 than dorsals. A thick femoral fold behind. Pores in a long line, from 35 to 40. 



Light reddish brown, with small bay specks all over the upper surface. 

 Several small round bay margined spots on the occipital and temporal 

 region. 



Head and body to vent 42" ; muzzle to ear ll''^-5 ; width at ear 8''-7, of 

 tail 6'^. Length of hind limb 14^^-7. 



Penang, Malacca. No. 476. Mus. Peabody Academy, Cambridge, Mass. 



Peropds roseus Cope. 



This species is remarkable for its nearly cylindric tail. I find no femoral 

 pores in two individuals, but a rather large series of scales abruptly divides 

 the granular from the scaled portion of the femur, in their position. Upper 

 labials eight to below orbit. No posterior femoral fold. Dorsal scales 

 extremely minute. General form more slender than in the last species. 



A black spot on each scapular, and one above each axillary region ; one on 

 the iliac, and a line above each ischiadic region ; a row of black dots on the 

 vertebral line of the tail. A brown band from end of muzzle to ear, then a 

 black line to axilla. 



Total length 77^^ ; to vent 40"; to ear 10"; width at ear 4^^-7. 



No. 735. Mus. Comparative Zoology. 



Peropus pusillus Cope. 



This little reptile differs from the last in the three structural and fourUi 

 coloration characters, beyond which it is difficult to observe further pecu- 

 liarity. There are nine superior labials to below the pupil ; there is no 



1868.] 




320 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



femoral fold, nor are there femoral pores. Color light brown, with a much 

 paler dorsal shade ; a brown band through orbit to axilla, and band across 

 muzzle. Tail with a series of pale rounded spots on the median line above. 



Total length 59^^; to veot 35" ; to ear 9"; hind limb 12^^-5. 



No. 407. Mus. Peabody Acad. S. W. Australia. 



HEMIDACTYLUS Cuv. 



Hemidactylus loxgickps Cope. 



This species is like the H. coctsei D. B. in its very sparse tuberculation, 

 for this appears in a single line of obtuse distant warts, on each side the lum- 

 bar region only. The thumb has a claw, however, and the tail is surrounded 

 by rings of prominent tubercles. It has fewer tubercles than the H. f r e n a- 

 tus, and diflt'ers further in having a long flat slender muzzle. The width of 

 the head behind the orbits does not measure from the end of the muzzle to 

 the posterior margin of the orbit, while in the H. f r e n a t u s it reaches the 

 rictus of the mouth. Labials 10 — 9; mental projecting behind ; postmentals 

 two pair, the outer considerably smaller, the inner largely in contact. Femo- 

 ral and preanal pores in one series. 



Light reddish-brown, with a pale dark brown bordered ochraceous band 

 from the end of the muzzle to the groin. Dorsal region brown-shaded ; below 

 white. 



Length to vent 47^^ ; to axilla 24^^ ; to ear 13^^. 



Manilla; from Capt. J. W. Chever. Mus. Peabody Academy, Salem, Mass. 

 No. 478. 



Hemidactylcs hexaspis Cope. 



Tubercles flat, round, sparse, in a row on each side the median vertebral 

 line, and three rows on each side, at a distance from the former. Caudal tu- 

 bercles in three rows on each side. Labials 11 — 8, symphyseal produced be- 

 hind ; postmentals abruptly larger, three on each side, the median pair in 

 contact half their length, the outer diminishing regularly. Femoral and pre- 

 anal pores continuous in the male, both wanting in female. Three internasals ; 

 no tubercles on head or nape. Abdominal scales ovate, rather large. 



Plumbeous above, with numerous pale blotches ; a pale band from end of 

 muzzle to groin, margined with leaden above and below, in the female with 

 blackish ; top of muzzle dark shaded above. 



Length to vent 57^^ ; to axilla 2h" \ to ear 13^^. 



Two specimens from Madagascar. No. 494, Mus. Peabody Academy. 



This species is also related to the H. f r e n a t u s, but differs in the arrange- 

 ment of the dorsal tubercles, and in the chin shields. 



I may note here that the Liurus capen sis [Hemidactylus capensis Smith, 

 Zool. S. Afr.) occurs in the copal of Zanzibar. A specimen over two inches 

 long, enclosed in a block of this substance, is in my possession. Its skeleton 

 and viscera have been dissolved, and form a thick fluid easily visible on 

 moving the specimen. The specimen has been included some time before 

 t^e solidificaiion of the gum, as the gases evolved during decomposition have 

 raised large bladders in two places in the specimen. Another Gecko, pro- 

 bably a Hemidactylus, also occurs in the copal. 



Pentadactylus brcnneus Cope. 



Nostrils surrounded by four small shields and the first labial, the rostral 

 being excluded. The anterior of the scales separated from its fellow by a 

 polj'gonal scale, which is not included in a notch of the rostral. Rostral 

 fissured above. Superior labials eleven, last two minute ; two or three of 

 them longer than high. Distinguishable inferior labials nine; two first much 

 deeper than long. Infralabials not marked, forming some four or five rows 

 of small ovate scales. Scaling of the body coarse. No superciliary spine ; 

 no preanal pores. Free joints of the toes, especially of the thumbs, thick. 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 321 



Tail with whorls of flat hexagonal scales, abruptly separated from those of 

 the sacrum above. 



Color above brown, with seven irregular undulate, transverse bars of a very 

 deep brown, between rump and nape. Below pale. 



lu. Lin. 



Total length 5 7-5 



Length from muzzle to vent 2 8-S 



" " axilla 2 4 



" " " ear 9 



" " " orbit 4 



" of hind limb 14 



Australia. Mns. Jardin des Plantes, in ex. 



This species is nearest the PI. d u v a u c e 1 i i D. and B. ; the differences may 

 be readily determined by comparison with Giinther's description in Reptiles 

 Brit. India. 



Ptenopus maculatus Gray, Proc. Zool. Soc, London, 1865, 640. 



Character genericus. — Toes with transverse series of very narrow, simple 

 plates beneath. Posterior loes all turned forwards, with a series of long pro- 

 cesses forming a fringe on each side ; posterior claws issuing from above a 

 broad paralellogrammmic lamina. No femoral pores. Ears distinct. Nos- 

 tril pierced in a single plate. Eyelids each half developed. 



This genus is near to Stenodactylus Cuv. and Spatalura Gray, but differs 

 markedly from both. The tail is not flattened and fringed as in Spatalura, 

 while the terminal plates of the toes and single nasal plates are marked 

 characters. 



As Dr. Gray referred this genus to the Agamidae I was induced to make an 

 examination of the skeleton. As a result of this, I am satisfied that it belongs 

 to the suborder of the Nyctisaura and the family Gecconidte. In evidence 

 for this I append the following characters: 1. The dentition is pleurodont. 

 2. The parietal bones are separate. 3. The vertebrai are amphiccelian. 4. 

 There is no sabarticular bone. 6. The coronoid process of the mandible is 

 not produced posteriorly. As characters of a higher or a lower significance 

 the following may be added. The angular bone is distinct, there are four ab- 

 dominal ribs, and three attached by long haemapophyses to the posterior mar- 

 gin of the xiphisternum. The dentary bone is prolonged below unusually far 

 posteriorly, i. e., to half way between the coronoid and articular processes. 



Character specificus. — Head large, slightly compressed. Muzzle short, ob- 

 tuse. Nasal plates two, forming a round disc, which is only in contact with 

 the nostral and first labial, and separated from its fellow by a granule. This 

 disc has its posterior third separated from the remainder by a suture ; the 

 nostril is in the anterior plate near the suture. Rostral not fissured, broader 

 than high. Superior labials longer than high, large, seven on each side. In- 

 ferior seven (to opposite sixth superior) narrow, longitudinal. Symphyseal 

 prominently rounded below, broader than high. No infralabials ; gulars not 

 smaller. 



Dorsal scales equal, hexagonal, flat ; nuchals minute, occipitals, frontals 

 and nasals a little larger than dorsals, flat. Caudals equal to dorsals, flat, 

 whorled. Tail vertically flattened at the end. Fingers and toes long, slender ; 

 former lengths 5 — 1 — 2 — -4 — 3 ; toes 1 — 5 — 2 — 3 — 4. Fingers not fringed ; 

 claws long, compressed, not concealed, but with a smooth basal sheath. The 

 posterior toes are entirely different, in the long fringes, terminal plates, and 

 the perfectly straight spine-like claws, which project from the middle of the 

 end of each plate ; the arrangement is a little like the body of a slender Onis- 

 cus, whence the name of the genus. The long cross-plates are not serrate, 

 but are rigid ; they are separated from the series of fringe-like scales by some 

 series of granules. The tail is slender, short, and slightly compressed. No 

 tubercles at base. Vent with a short fringe all round. 



1868.] 




322 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



In. Lin. 



Total length 3 6 



Lengtla to vent 2 1 



" " axilla 11 



" " ear 52 



" " orbit 2 



" of hind limb 12-5 



" " foot 6 



Width of head at ears 5 



Color. — Above light gray, with a rose shade on the neck and nape. Five 

 pairs of irregular black annuli, one on each side the vertebral line, from rump 

 to nape. These are more or less broken, especially anteriorly. They are re- 

 placed by scattered linear spots on the top of the head. The arrangement 

 reminds one of that seen in the Felis u n c i a. Seven pairs of spots on the 

 upper surface of the tail form cross-bars. Labial plates brown edged ; be- 

 low everywhere delicate straw color. 



Habitat at Cape of Good Hope. No. 725, Mus. Comparative Zoology, Cam- 

 bridge, Mass. 



This interesting little Saurian is furnished with a large calcareous mass on 

 each side the neck behind the os quadratum, which gives its head an appear- 

 ance of length. It is no doubt an inhabitant of a sandy region, judging by 

 its color and the structure of its hind feet, which appear to be adapted for 

 excavating. It is no doubt allied to the Stenodactylus garrulusof Smith, 

 but differs in numerous respects from the description of the latter author. 



Letheobia pallida Cope, gen. et sp. nov Typhlopidarum. 



Char. gen. — This genus differs from Typhlops in the subdivision of its ocular 

 plate into two scales similar to those of the body ; the superciliary plate is 

 also undistinguishable from the latter. There appears to be no eyes. Supe- 

 rior labials three. 



This genus is between Typhlops and Helminthophis Peters, differing from 

 the latter in its erect nasal plate, with nostril on the superior suture. The 

 Onychocephalus c ae c u s Dum^ril, from Gaboon, appears to belong to this 

 genus ; the two species may be distinguished as follows : 

 Muzzle obtuse ; rostral very wide, largely in contact with the 



superciliary plates ; nasal large L. pallida. 



Muzzle transversely acute ; rostral not reaching to supercilia- 



ries ; nasal minute L. c ae c a . 



Char, specif. — iiostral subquadrate viewed from above, nearly as broad as 

 long, in contact nearly equally with three scales above the fronto-nasals, — 

 viz., the frontal and two superciliaries. Thesubocular a little larger than the 

 ocular ; behind these a series of seven scales from the rictus to the median 

 row, on each side. Preocular and fronto-nasal of equal width, the latter 

 sending a very narrow point to the second labial behind the wider nasal. 

 Nostril very near the rostral suture. Tail as long as width of head, acumi- 

 nate. Scales equal, in twenty-two longitudinal rows. Form quite slender. 

 Length 6 in. 3-5 lines ; diameter at middle 1-25 lines. Color pale flesh-color. 



Habitat. — Zanzibar. Presented by C. Cooke to the Essex Institute, Salem, 

 Mass. (Mus. 504.) It was taken from a well. Mus. Acad. Nat. Sci. Philada. 



Thrasops citrinus Cope, sp. nov. 



Body slender, compressed, tail short for the genus. Gastrosteges rounded 

 and elevated on the sides. Scales in seventeen rows, poreless, all strongly 

 keeled ; the median more lanceolate; the surface of all finely longitudinally 

 striate. Head quite distinct; muzzle not long, flat, truncate ; cantbus ros- 

 tralis straight, angulate, loresfplane. Supranasals a little longer than broad; 

 frontal elongate, not concave laterally, occipitals a little longer. Post-front- 

 als descending to labials, no loreal ; oculars 1 — 3. Superior labials nine, 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 323 



fourth, fifth and sixth in orbit, last three longer than high ; temporals 1 — 2. 

 Ten inferior labials, postgenials longer than pregenials. 



Total length 23-5 in, ; to vent 17 in.; to rictus oris 7 lin. ; to orbit 1-5 lin. 

 Gastrosteges 197, urosteges 105. 



Yellowish-brown above, gastro- and urosteges rich yellow. Top of head 

 brown, lips paler, the upper edges of the plates light, continuing into a streak 

 to belly. 



From the Seychelle Islands ; found by U. S. consul Pike. Mus. Acad. Nat. 

 Sciences. 



Notes on some points in the Structure and Habits of the Palaezoic CKINOIDEA. 



BY F. B. MEEK AND A. II. WORTHEN, 



Of the State Geological Survey of Illinois. 



Through the kindness of Mr. Charles Wachsinuth, of Burlington, Iowa, we 

 have recently had an opportunity to examine some unique and exceedingly in- 

 teresting specimens of Carboniferous Crinoids, showing parts of the structure 

 of these animals, in some instances, never before observed, so far as we are at 

 this time informed. In a few instances, these specimens show internal organs 

 entirely free from the matrix, and althougli like all the other solid parts of 

 these curious creatures, composed of numerous calcareous pieces, really sur- 

 passing in delicacy of structure the finest lace-work, and so frail that a touch, 

 or even a breath, might almost destroy them.* Some of these specimens we 

 propose to notice here, but, before proceeding to do so, we avail ourselves of 

 this opportunity to express our thanks to Mr. Wachsmuth for the zeal, indus- 

 try, skill and intelligence he has brought to bear, in collecting and preparing 

 for study, such an unrivaled series of the beautiful fossil Crinoidea of this 

 wonderfullj'- rich locality. Some idea of the extent of his collection of these 

 precious relics may be formed, when we state that of the single family Actino- 

 crinidie alone, after making due allowance for probable synonj'ms, he must 

 have specimens of near 150 species, or perhaps more, and many of them show- 

 ing the body, arms and column. , 



It is also due to Mr. Wachsmnth, that we should state here that he is not a 

 mere collector only, but that he understands what he collects, and knows just 

 what to collect, as well as how to collect. 



Below we give substantially some notes of observations made in his collec- 

 tion, followed by some remarks on other specimens at Springfield : 



1. Sf/nbathocrinus, Phillips. Some of Mr. Wachsmuth's specimens of a spe- 

 cies of this genus show that it is provided with a long, slender, pipe-stem like 

 ventral tube, or proboscis, apparently equaling the arms in length. Also, that 

 a double row of minute alteruating marginal pieces extends up within the am- 

 bulacral furrows of the arms, apparently all their length. We are not aware 

 that these characters have been hitherto noticed in any of the publications on 

 this genus. It will be seen, however, farther on, that minute marginal pieces 

 probably occupied the furrows along the inner side of the arms of other types 

 of Crinoidea, as well as this. 



2. jfoniasteroidocrinus, Lyon and Casseday. Some unusually fine specimens 

 of the typical species of this genus [G. tuberosum) iu Mr. Wachsmuth's collec- 

 tion, from Crawfordsville, Ind., show the slender pendent arms much more 

 distinctly than any we had before seen, and from these it seems evident that 

 these arms are stouter than we had supposed, and that there are not more than 

 five or six of them to each of the ten openings. In the specimen figured by us 

 on page 220 of the second volume of the Illinois Reports, these arms were only 

 imperfectly seen by working away, with great difficulty, the hard matrix be- 



* By Mr. Wachsmuth's permission, we have prepared for future publication, dravrmgsof 

 all of these instructive specimens. 



1868.] 




324 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



tweeu two of the produced rays of the vault, which we have termed pseudo- 

 bracliial appendages, or false arms. In clearing away the matrix of this 

 specimen, we had cut just far enough to expose the edges of the arms on each 

 side of the deep ambulacral furrow, so that each of these edges presents the 

 appearance of being a separate and distinct, very slender arm, composed of a 

 single series of pieces, and without any ambulacral furrow on the outer or 

 ventral side ; whereas there is a well-defined ambulacral furrow, bearing the 

 tentacula along its margins, on the outer side of the arms, and when the matrix 

 is removed from these ambulacral furrows, the arms can be seen to be composed 

 each of a double series of small alternately-arranged pieces. It is barely possi- 

 ble that in specimens of this species with the arras perfectly preserved, that the 

 ambulacral furrows may be covered on the outer or ventral side by a double 

 series of alternating pieces, and that the tentacula* may connect with little 

 openings along each side, though there certainly appear to be only open fur- 

 rows in the specimens examined. 



It is worthy of note, in this connection, that there certainly are species, 

 agreeing exactly in all other known characters with this genus, that have no 

 open furrow along the outer or ventral side of the arms, which are distinctly 

 seen to be round on the outer side, and show there a double series of interlock- 

 ing pieces along their entire length, while the tentacula connect along the 

 inner, or under side, as the arms are seen hanging down. This is clearly seen 

 to be the case in a beautiful specimen of G typus {=Trematocrinus typus, Hall) 

 in Mr. Wachsmuth's collection, and we can scarcely doubt that in this species 

 there is an open furrow on the inner (under) or dorsal side of the arms. If 

 not, the arms must be tubular, in consequence of having the ambulacral canal 

 aclosed all around, excepting at the points where the tentacula connect along 

 each side. 



3. Cyaihocrinus, Miller. Specimens of this genus showing the vault (more 

 properly the ventral disc) have very rarely been seen. In England a few ex- 

 amples have been found, and these have been supposed to show two openings, 

 one central and another lateral ; the latter, according to Prof. Philipps' and 

 Mr. Austin's figures, being provided with a slender marginal tube, or so-called 

 proboscis. Some of Mr. Wachsmuth's specimens, however, of C. malvaceus and 

 C. loiuensis, Hall, showing the vault, have led us to doubt the existence of a 

 central opening in the vault of this genus, when the specimens have this part 

 entire. The specimen of C. malvaceus shows the remains of the usual narrow 

 lateral proboscis, and also has an opening in the middle of the vault, but from 

 the appearance of this opening, as well as from the structure of the vault of a 

 specimen of C. lowensis, in which this opening is closed, we can scarcely doubt 

 that it was also closed in the specimen of C. 7nalvaceus, when entire. The re- 

 maining parts of the vault of the C. ynalvaceus mentioned consist of only five 

 comparatively large pieces, alternating with the upper inner edges of the first 

 radial pieces, — the one on the anal side being larger than the others, and form- 

 ing the base of the inner side of the proboscis. These five pieces connect wilh 

 each other laterally, and extend inward some distance, bat not so for as to 

 meet at the centre, where there is a subsemicircular opening, nearly as large 

 as that in the remaining base of the proboscis. Along each of the sutures 

 between the five vault pieces mentioned, a comparatively large furrow extends 

 inward from each arm-base to the central opening. These we regard as con- 

 tinuations of the ambulacral furrows from the arms, though there is also a mi- 

 nute opening at each arm base, passing directly downward into the cavity of 

 the body, which was probably for the passage of the arm-muscles. 



Looking at this specimen alone, one would naturally suppose there must 



* We use the term tentacula here in the sense it is generally used by paljeontologists, 

 with reference to the delicate pinnulre along the arms of Crinoids, and of course not as 

 applying to the minute flestiy organs along the ambulacral furrows, usually termed tenta- 

 cles by those who have investigated the recent Crinoids. 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 325 



have been, during the life of the animal, two distinct openings in the vault, as 

 appears to be the case in the specimen of G. planus, Miller, figured by Prof. 

 Phillips and Mr. Austin. But on examining the specimen of C. lowensis men- 

 tioned above, we find that it shows the base of the small lateral proboscis, with 

 the five principal vault-pieces alternating with the first radials (the one on 

 the anal side being larger than the others), and the same ambulacral furrows 

 extending inwards from the arm- bases, all exactly as in the C. malvaceus. But 

 here we find the central opening undoubtedly closed hj several vault pieces, 

 while the ambulacral furrows, extending inward from the arm-bases, pass 

 in under these central pieces, and are themselves occupied, or covered, by a 

 double series of alternating, very minute pieces, which probably also extend 

 on, all the way up the ambulacral furrows of the arms as marginal pieces. 



From our examinations of these two specimens, which are the only examples 

 of the genus we have seen, showing the vault pieces, and seem to be typical 

 forms of the genus in all other respects, we are strongly inclined to think the 

 specimen of G. planus, figured by Prof. Phillips and Mr. Austin, has had these 

 central vault pieces removed by some accident. The fact that these pieces in 

 the specimen examined bj' us, in Mr. Wachsmuth's collection, seem not to be 

 deeply implanted between the five larger surrounding pieces mentioned, but 

 rather rest, as it were, partly upon the narrow bevelled points of the inner ends 

 of the latter, between the ambulacral furrows, so as t(3 allow room for these 

 furrows to pass under, would render them less firm, and more liable to be re- 

 moved by any accident, and may possibly account for their absence in the 

 English specimen mentioned. 



In regard to the pieces covering the central part of the vault, and which, 

 from the way they are arranged for the ambulacral furrows to pass under them, 

 were apparently more liable to be removed than the others, we would remark 

 that they do not present the prominent appearance, and uniformity of size and 

 form, of the movable pieces composing what is often called the ovarian pyra- 

 mid in the Cystids, but certainly have all the appearances of true fixed vault 

 pieces, and scarcely project above the others surrounding them. Consequently 

 we cannot believe it at all probable that this genus had a central mouth, open- 

 ing directly through the vault ; though its ambulacral canals evidently con- 

 verged from the arm-bases to the middle of the vault, partly above the outer 

 vault pieces, and under those composing the middle of the vault. That these 

 furrows terminated at the entrance of the alimentary canal, under the middle 

 of the vault, as those of Comatula converge to the mouth, in the same central 

 position, is highly probable ; and, as will be seen further on, we are much in- 

 clined to believe that the minute organisms upon which we are led, from ana- 

 logy, to think these animals subsisted, were conveyed to the entrance of the 

 alimentary canal along the ambulacral furrows, without the agency of any 

 proper mouth, opening directly through the vault. Hence we think it proba- 

 ble that the small tube, usually called the proboscis, situated near the poste- 

 rior side of the ventral disc, rather corresponds to the tubular anal opening 

 similarly situated in Comatula iMediterranea. 



From our description of the vault of these species, it will be seen to present 

 considerable similarity to that of Crotalocrinus rugosus, excepting that in that 

 genus, owing to its great number of arms, the ambulacral furrows, or canals, 

 bifurcate several times between the middle of the vault and the arm-bases, 

 while in Crotalocrinus there is no lateral proboscis, nor, apparently, even any 

 visible opening, judging by the figures we have seen, though we suspect it may 

 have a small opening at the periphery of the veutrnl disc, on the posterior or 

 anal side. In the group of depressed Platycrini for which Troost proposed the 

 name Cupellsecrinus we observe a somewhat similar vault, at least in some of the 

 species; also in Coccocnnus. In such forms there would seem to be, as it were, 

 an intermediate gradation between the modern Crinoids and the prevailing 

 PalcEozoic types, as has been pointed out by Mr. Billings. 



4. Convoluted support of the digestive sack, in the Actinocrinidx. The presence 



1868,] 




326 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



of a large convoluted body, resembling in form the shell of a Bulla or Scaphan- 

 der, within the body of several types of the Actinocrinidee, was noticed by Prof. 

 Hall in vol. xli, p. 261 of the Am. Journ. Sci., in 1866, though he made no sug- 

 gestions there in regard to the functions it probably performed in the internal 

 economy of these animals. In the second volume of the Illinois Geological 

 Reports, published soon after, we figured, on page 191, a specimen of Stroto- 

 criiius, with this body seen in place, and stated that we regarded it as having 

 been connected with the digestive apparatus of the animal. 



Both in Prof. Hall's and our own remarks, this organ was spoken of as a 

 convoluted plate. This, however, we now know is not strictly correct, for al- 

 though composed of hard calcareous matter, and in some species somewhat 

 dense in structure, it seems to be always constructed of a great number of mi- 

 nute pieces, and generally has a more or less open or porous texture ; while iu 

 some cases it presents the appearance of an exceedingly delicate net-work. It 

 seems never to be attached to the bottom of the visceral cavity, though it ex- 

 tends down nearly to the bottom. It is open at both ends (the openiug at the 

 lower end being generally smaller than the other), and is placed with its longer 

 axis nearly so as to coincide with that of the body of the Crinoid. In some 

 species it is more or less dilated at the upper end, while in others it is con- 

 tracted at both ends, so as to present, as above stated, the form of the shell of 

 a Bulla. It has apparetitly no columella, but is more or less loosely convoluted, 

 with a spiral ridge descending the interior, and sometimes another ascend- 

 ing the exterior. Its walls are generally of moderate thickness, but they often 

 appear to be thicker than natural, in consequence of the presence of inorganic 

 incrustations, of calcareous or silicious matter, which also disguise its real 

 structure. 



In Actinocrinus Verneuilianus, Shnmard, this body is narrow below, and sub- 

 cylindrical above to the top, which is slightly dilated. The small opening at 

 the lower end has a thickened rim, which passes around spirally, so as to as- 

 cend the outside, as a rather stout ridge, all the way to the top, making nearly 

 two turns, and apparently also forming a rim partly around the top. The sur- 

 face of the whole organ, as ■well as of its external spiral ridge, has the usual 

 rough appearance, and when fragments of it are held up, so as to be examined 

 by transmitted light, through a good pocket-glass, it is seen to be composed of 

 a great number of very minute polygonal pieces, varying somewhat in form 

 and size. When these pieces are examined under a magnifier, by reflected 

 lighl, they show shining facets, like crystals, though they are evidently not 

 surface incrustations, but actually compose the walls, or substance of the organ 

 itself. No pores or meshes were observed passing through the walls of this 

 organ in this species, in which it appears to be more than usually dense. 



lu another specimen in Mr. Wachsmuth's collection, apparently of Aclwocri- 

 nus proboscidialis, this organ, as seen with one or more of the outer turns re- 

 moved, has an oval or subelliptic form, being contracted and twisted at both 

 ends, so as to present very nearly the api)earance of the shell of some species 

 of Ovuluvi. Its walls are quite thin, and seem to form more convolutions than 

 in any other species in which we have had an opportunity to examine it. As 

 seen by the aid of a magnifier by transmitted light, it presents a very beauti- 

 ful appearance, being composed of a great number of minute pieces, with nu- 

 merous openings passing through between them. The little pieces and the 

 openings between them, are of nearly uniform size, and arranged so that there 

 are usually one or two of the former intervening between any two of the open- 

 ings. 



Another of Sir. Wachsmuth's specimens of Actinocrinu.ssecvrus,\{si\\, has one 

 side of the body removed so as to show about two thirds of the convoluted or- 

 gan, the upper part of which is broken away. The part remaining has a short- 

 wide subcylindrical form, with a rather broad, obliquely truncated lower end, 

 which is not tapering, as in the other species. Under a magnifier it is seen to 

 be composed of an extremelj- fine net-work, far surpassing, indeed, in delicacy 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 327 



of Structure, the finest laces that it is perhaps within the power of hunaan skill 

 to fabricate ; and as it is entirely free from any surrounding matrix, excepting 

 at one side below, the specimen has to be handled with great care, as a mere 

 touch of this delicate part would probably cause it to fall into hundreds of 

 minute fragments. On examining it under a magnifier, the little bars of which 

 it is composed are seen not to intersect each other at any uniform angle, but 

 anastomose, so as to impart a kind of irregular regularity, if we may so speak, 

 to the form and size of the meshes. Of these little bars there are two sizes, the 

 larger forming the larger meshes, while within the latter a smaller set of pro- 

 cesses extend partly or entirely across, so as to form more minute meshes ; the 

 whole presenting a beautiful appearance, of which it would be difficult to con- 

 vey a correct idea by a mere description alone, without the aid of figures. 



From analogy, judging from what is known of the internal structure of the 

 recent genus Comatala, in which several authors have noticed a reticulated 

 calcareous structure secreted within the tissue of the softer parts of its alimen- 

 tary canal, we may infer that this convoluted organ was, as it were, a kind of 

 frame work, secreted for the support of the digestive sack, which was probably 

 more or less convoluted in the same way in many, if not all of the Palaeozoic 

 Crinoids, though not apparently, in all cases, endowed with the power of se- 

 creting a suflicient dense structure of this kind to leave traces of its existence 

 in a fossil state. 



So far as we are at this time informed, this organ has yet been very rarely 

 observed in any other family than the Actinecrinidse, though it was probably 

 more or less developed in various other groups. In one instance Mr. Wach- 

 smuth found it in a Platycrinus, but here it seems to be, in the specimen found, 

 merely a spongy mass, not showing very clearly the convoluted structure. 

 Some traces of what was supposed to be something of this kind were also 

 observed by him in one of the Blastoids. 



5. Ambulacral canah passing under the vault in the Actinocrinidx. In the third 

 and fourth Decades of descriptions and illustrations of the Canadian Organic 

 Remains, Mr. Billings, the able palajontologist of the Geological Survey of the 

 Canadian provinces, gives some highly interesting and instructive remarks on 

 the ambulacral and other openings of the Palaeozoic Crinoids. In these re- 

 marks he noticed, at length, some striking differences between the vault, or 

 ventral disc, of these older types, and that of the few living examples of this 

 extensive order of animals. That is, he noticed the facts, that while in the 

 living Comatula and Pentacrinus, the ambulacral canals are seen extending 

 from the arm-bases across the surface of the soft skin-like ventral disc, to the 

 central mouth, and these genera are provided with a separate anal opening, 

 situated excentiically between the mouth and the posterior side, that in the 

 palaeozoic Crinoids the ventral disc is very generally, if not always, covered 

 by close-fitting, solid j)lates, showing no external traces whatever of ambula- 

 cral furrows extending inward from the arm-bases ; and that in nearly all 

 cases they are merely provided with a single excentric, or subcentral opening, 

 often produced into a long tube which, like the vault, is made up of solid 

 plates. He showed that there is no evidence whatever that the ambulacral 

 canals, in these older types, were continued along the surface of the vault from 

 the arm-bases to the only opening, whether subcentrally or laterally' situated, 

 and that in cases where this opening is produced in the form of a greatly 

 elongated proboscis, or tube, such an arrangement of the ambulacra would be 

 almost a physical impossibility. Hence he concluded that the ambulacral 

 canals must have passed directlj' through the walls of the body at the arm- 

 bases ; and he gave several figures of various types, showing ojjenings at the 

 base of the arms, through which he maintained that the ambulacra must have 

 passed to the interior of the body from the arms. 



Although these arm-openings had long been well known to all familiar with 

 our numerous types of western Carboniferous Crinoids, in which they are very 



1868.] 




328 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



conspicuous, and we had never entertained any other opinion in regard to 

 them, than that they are the only passages of communication that could have 

 existed between the softer parts occupying the ambulacral furrows of the arms, 

 ■and the interior of the body, Mr. Billings was the first author, so far as we 

 are at this time aware, who called especial attention to them in this regard. 

 We regret that we have not space to quote a portion, at least, of his remarks 

 on this subject, and would advise the student to read attentively the whole of 

 both of his articles alluded to. 



The specimens at Mr. Billing's command enabled him to trace the courses of 

 the ambulacral canals from the arms, through the walls of the body at the 

 arm-bases, and to ascertain the additional fact that, after passing through the 

 walls, they seemed to have turned upward ; but beyond this he had not the 

 means of tracing them farther. 



A single specimen of Aclinocrinus proboscidialis, however, in Mr. W^a.chsmuth'3 

 collection, is in a condition (thanks to the great skill of that gentleman, and 

 the exceedingly fortunate state of preservation, by which its delicate internal 

 parts remain almost entire, and without any surrounding matrix) to throw 

 much additional light on this subject. By very dextrous manipulation, Mr. 

 Wachsmuth succeeded in removing about half of its vault, so as to expose the 

 internal parts, in place, and in an excellent state of preservation. The convo- 

 luted organ already described in other species is in this comparatively large, 

 subcylindrical in the middle, apparently tapering at the lower end, and a little 

 dilated at the upper extremity. It seems to be rather dense, and shows the 

 usual rough appearance, but as we had no opportunity to examine any de- 

 tached fragments of it by transmitted light, we did not determine whether or 

 not it has pores passing through it, though it probably has, at least when en- 

 tirely free from any inorganic incrustation. Its slightly dilated upper end 

 seems to stand with its middle almost, but apparently not exactly, under the 

 middle of the nearly central proboscis of the vault ; while at the anterior side 

 of its upper margin, and a little out from under the proboscis, it shows re- 

 mains of a kind of thickened collar, which we found to be composed of minute 

 calcareous pieces. From this there radiate five ambulacra, composed of the 

 same kind of minute pieces as the collar itself, each ambulacrum consisting of 

 two rows of these minute pieces alternately arranged. They are each also 

 provided with a distinct furrow along their entire length above. As they ra- 

 diate and descend from their connection with the top of the convoluted frame- 

 work of the digestive sack, they all bifurcate, so as to send a branch to each 

 arm-opening, those passing to the posterior rays curving a little at first above, 

 so as not to pass directly under the proboscis. These ambulacra, although 

 passing along obscure furrows in the under side of the vault, which are deepest 

 near the arm-openings, are not in contact with the vault, or visibly connected 

 with any other parts than the top of the convoluted digestive sack, and the 

 outer walls at the arm-openings. Each of their subdivisions can be traced 

 into an arm-opening, and it is very probable that they continued on out the 

 ambulacral furrows of the arms and tentacula. At one point in one of these 

 ambulacral canals, beneath the vault, some evidences of the remains of two 

 rows of minute pieces were observed alternating with the upper edges of those 

 composing the under side of these canals, and thus apparently covering them 

 over. The condition of the parts is such, however, as scarcely to war- 

 rant the assertion that this was really the case, though we are much inclined 

 to think it was. If so, these canals must have been, at least under the vault, 

 hollow tubes, formed of two rows of pieces below, and two above, all alter- 

 nately arranged. 



We are not aware that any evidences of the existence of these delicate 

 ambulacral canals, composed of minute calcareous pieces, and passing beneath 

 the vault from the arm-openings to the summit of the convoluted digestive sack, 

 have ever before been oljserved in any Crinoid, recent or extinct; and we can 

 but think it probable, that the extremely rare combination of circumstances 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 329 



that brought them to light in this instance may not again occur for centuries 

 to come, with regard to another specimen. That they correspond to the am- 

 bulacra! canals seen extending from the arm-base to the mouth, on the outside 

 of the ventral disc in Comatida, is clearly evident. 



The presence of furrows radiating from the central region of the under side 

 of the vault to the arm-openings, in various types of palaeozoic Crinoids, must 

 have been frequently observed by all who have had an opportunity to examine 

 the inner surface of this part. Messrs. deKoninck and Lehon figure a portion 

 of the vault of Actmocnnus slellaris, in their vulnahle Recherches sur les Crinoides 

 du Terr. Curb, de la Belgiqiie, pi. iii, fig. 4 f., showing these furrows, which they 

 seem to have regarded as the impressions left by the muscles of the viscera. 

 The inner surface of the vault of most of our western Carboniferous Cri- 

 noids is known to have these furrows more or less defined, either from 

 specimens showing this inner surface, or from natural casts of the same. In 

 some instances they are very strongly defined from the central region outward 

 to the arm-bases, to each of which they send a branch. In Actinocrinus orna- 

 tus, Hall, for instance, they are generally so strongly defined as to raise the 

 thin vault into strong radiating ridges, separated by deep furrows on the outer 

 side. In Strotocrinus, the vault of which is greatly expanded laterally, and 

 often flat on top, these internal furrows, in radiating outward, soon become 

 separated by partitions, and as they go on bifurcating, to send a branch to 

 each arm, they actually assume the character of rounded tubular canals, some 

 distance before they reach the arm-bases. 



That these furrows or passages of the inner side of the vault were actually 

 occupied during the life of the animal by the ambulacral canals as they radi- 

 ate from the top of the convoluted digestive sack to the arm-openings, we think 

 uo one will for a moment question, after examining Mr. Wachsmuth's speci- 

 men of Actinocrinus proboscidialix, which we have described, showing all these 

 parts in place. It is also worthy of note, that in all the specimens of various 

 types in which these furrows of the under side of the vault are well known, 

 whether from detached vaults, or from casts of the interior of the same, they 

 never converge directly to the opening of the vault, but to a point on the anterior side 

 of it, whether there is a simple opening or a produced proboscis. The point to 

 which they converge, even in types with a decidedly lateral opening of the 

 vault, is always central or very nearly so, and even when the opening is nearly 

 or quite central, the furrows seem to go, as it were, out of their way to avoid 

 it, those coming from the posterior rays passing around on each side of it to 

 the point of convergence of the others, a little in advance of the opening. That 

 the ambulacral canals here, under this point of convergence of the furrows in 

 the under side of the vault, always came together and connected with the 

 upper end of the convoluted frame-work of the digestive sack, we can scarcely 

 entertain a doubt. 



Now in looking at one of these specimens, especially an internal cast of the 

 vault, showing the furrows (or casts of them) starting from a central, or 

 nearly central point, and radiating and bifurcating so as to send a branch to 

 each arm-base, while the opening or proboscis of the vault (or the protuber- 

 ance representing it in the cast) is seen to occupy a position somewhere on a 

 line between this central point from which the furrows radiate and the poste- 

 rior side, one can scarcely avoid being struck with the fact, that this point of 

 convergence of the ambulacra, under the vault, bears the same relations in 

 position to the opening of the vault, that the mouth of a Comatida does to its 

 anal opening. And when we remember that eminent authorities, who have 

 dissected specimens of the existing genus Comatula, maintain that these 

 animals subsisted on microscopic organisms floating in the sea-water, such as 

 the Diatomacece, minute Entomostraca, etc.,* which were conveyed to the mouth 



* Bronn mentions the fact (Klassen des Thierreichs. Aetinozoa, II, p. 211), that the re- 

 mains of Diatomacese, of the genera Navicula, Actinocydus Coscinodiscus, and of minute Kntom- 

 ostraca were found in the stomach of Comatula, and suggests that, when such objects, in 



1868.] 22 




330 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



along the ambulacral canals, perhaps by means of cilia, we are led from analogy 

 to think that the palffiozoic Crinoids subsisted upon similar food, conveyed in 

 the same way lo the entrance of the digestive sack If so, where would there 

 have been any absolute necessity for a mouth or other opening directly through 

 the vault, when, as we know, the ambulacral canals were so highly developed 

 under it from the arm openings to the entrance into the top of the alimentary 

 canal ? Indeed it seems at least probable, that if the soft ventral disc of 

 Comatula had possessed the power of secreting solid vault pieces, as in most 

 types of paheozoic Crinoids, that these vault pieces would not only have covered 

 over the ambulacral furrows, as in the paliBOZoic types, but that they would 

 also have hermetically covered over the mouth, and converted the little flexi- 

 ble anal tube into a solid calcareous pipe, such as that we often call the pro- 

 boscis in the extinct Crinoids. 



From all the facts therefore now known on this point, we are led to make 

 the inquiry whether or not, in all the palaeozoic Crinoids in which there is 

 but a single opening in the vault — whether it is a simple aperture or pro- 

 longed into a proboscis, and placed posterially, subcentrally, or at some point 

 on a line between the middle and the posterior side — this opening was not, 

 iastead of being the mouth, or both mouth and anus as supposed by some, 

 really the anal aperture alone ; and whether in these types the mouth was not 

 geuerally, if not alwa3-s, hermetically closed by immovable vault pieces, so 

 far as regards any direct opening through the vault ? 



We are aware of the fact, that at least one apparently strong objection may 

 be urged against this suggestion, and in favor of the conclusion that the single 

 opening seen in these older Crinoids was the mouth, or at least performed the 

 the double office of both anal and oral aperture. That is, the frequent occur- 

 rence of specimens of these palasozoic species, with the shell oi a, Platyceras in 

 close contact by its aperture, either with the side or the vault of the Crinoid, 

 and not unfrequently actually covering the only opening in the vault of the 

 latter, so as to have led to the opinion that the Crinoid was in the very act of 

 devouring the MoUusk at the moment when it perished. 



Amongst the numerous beautiful specimens of Crinoids found in the Keokuk 

 division of the Lower Carboniferous series at Cravvfordsville, Indiana, there is 

 one species of Platycrinus (P. hemisphsericus), that is so abundant that proba- 

 h\j not less than two hundred, and possibly more, individual specimens of it 

 have been found there by the different collectors who have visited that noted 

 locality ; and, judging from those we have seen, apparently about one-half of 

 these were found with a moderate sized, nearly straight, or very slightly 

 arched and conical Platyceras [P. infundibuluni), attached to one side by its 

 aperture, between the arms of the crinoid, and often so as to cover the single 

 lateral opening in the vault of the same* From the direction of the slight 

 curve of the apex of the Platyceras, it is also evident that it is always placed in 

 such a manner, with relation to the Crinoid, that the anterior side of the Mol- 



floating In the sea-water, came in contact with the ambulacra! furrows of the pinnulte, 

 they were conveyed along these furrows to those of the arms, and thence in the same way 

 into the mouth. He ridicules the idea, sometimes suggested, that the food may have been 

 handed by the pinnuliBor arms directly to the mouth. 



Dujardin and Hup6 also state (Hist Nat. des Zoophytes Echind., p. 18), that the living 

 Comatula was " nourished by microscopic yl///;? and floating corpuscles, which the vibra- 

 tile cilia of the ambulacra brought to the mouth." That they may have sometimes swal- 

 lowed a larger object, that accidentally floated into the mouth, however, is not improbable, 

 and would not, if such was the case, by any means disprove the generally accepted opinion 

 that these animals received their food almost entirely through the agency of their ambu- 

 lacral canals. 



* We at one time thought these shells attached to the side of this Platycrinus to be out 

 of reach of the opening, or supposed mouth, because we had not seen specimens showing 

 the position of the opening in this species, and had supposed, from its similarity to Platy- 

 erinus granulatu!!, Miller, and other species without a lateral opening, that such was also 

 the case with this. We have since seen specimens, however, showing that it has a lateral 

 opening, and therefore belongs to the group Pkurocrinus, so that it is probable these shells 

 often cover this opening. 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 331 



liisk was directed upward, wbeu the vault of the Crinoid was turned in that 

 direction.* A species of Goniasleroidocrinus [O. tuberosus, Lyon and Casse- 

 day), found at the same locality, also has frequently a Plali/ceras attached to 

 the top of its nearly flat vault, so as to cover the only opening in the same. 

 It is wortiiy of note, however, that it is always another, subspiral, Flatyceras 

 (very similar to P. nequilaterum), that we find attached to this Crinoid, so that 

 here at least, it would seem that each of these two Crinoids has its own par- 

 ticular species of Plafyceras. 



In all of these, and numerous other examples that might be mentioned, it is 

 worthy of note that it is to species of Crinoids Avith a simple opening in the 

 vault, and not to any of those with a produced proboscis, that we find these 

 shells attached in this way ;-j- and it is so rarely that we find shells of any other 

 genus than Plati/ceras, appareuth^ attached to, or in contact with, the body of 

 a Crinoid, that it seems probable wliere other shells are occasionally so found, 

 that their connection with the Crinoid may lie merely accidental. If it coulil 

 be established as a fact, that these Crinoids were actually devouring these 

 Mollusks, by sucking out, or otherwise extracting and swallowing their softer 

 parts, in any instance where they have been found with a shell attached over 

 the opening of the vault, this would, of course, establish the fact that this 

 opening is the mouth, or, at least, that it must have performed the office of 

 both oral and anal aperture. But to say nothing in regard to all that is known 

 of the habits and food of the recent Crinoids beingso directly opposed to such 

 a conclusion, the fact that so large a proportion as nearly one-half of all the 

 individuals of some species should have died at the precise moment of time 

 when they were devouring a Plafyceras, and should have been embedded in 

 the sediment and subsequently fossilized without separating from the shell, 

 seems, to say the least of it, very improbable. 



And it is even more difficult to understand upon what principal an animal with 

 its viscera incased in a hard unyielding shell, composed of thick, close-fitting 

 calcareous pieces, and with even its digestive sack, as we liave reason to believe, 

 at least to some extent, similarly constructed, could have exerted such powers 

 of suction as to be able to draw out and swallow, through an aperture in its 

 own shell, often less than one-tenth of an inch in diameter, the softer parts of 

 a mollusk nearlj- or quite equal in volume to the whole of its own visceral 

 cavity. That they ever did so, however, becomes still more improbable, 

 when we bear in mind the fact, that the animal supposed to have performed 

 this feat, lived, at least during the whole of its adult life, attached to one spot 

 by a flexible stem, that only allowed it a radius of a foot or so of area to 

 seek its prey in ; while the mollusk it is suppose 1 to have so frequently de- 

 voured, from its close affinities to the genus CapuLus, may be supposed to have 

 almost certainly lived most of its life attached to one spot. J In such a case, why 



* Prof. Ricliard Owen has noticed, in his Report on the Geological Survey of Indiana, p. 

 364 (18(52), the frequent oeeurrenee of a Plattjcras attached to this same Platycrinus, at this 

 locality, and propo.sed to name the PUdyccrns P. pabiilncriniis, from the supposition that it 

 formed the chief food of these Crinoids. It is probable that the Pliti/ceras for whioh he 

 proposed this name, is the same we named P. in/umUbiUum, but as he gave no description 

 of the species, and but an imperfect figure, we oanuot spei\k p'lsilinlt/ as to its identity. 

 Prof. Hall has also proposed the name of /^. subrectum for this Crawfordsville /"<rti/':'ra.i, liu t 

 he had previously used the same name for a very different, Kew York, Devonian species 

 of this genus. 



Prof. Yandell and Dr. Shumai'd have also figured in their paper entitled "Contributions to 

 the Geology of Kentucky," a specimen of Acrucrinus, with a very simdar Platyceras appar- 

 ently attached to its vault. 



Amongst all the numerous Crinoids found at Burlington, Iowa, we are aware of but a 

 single instaneeof one being found withaPta^ycerajjattached, and that is a specimen nf Acti- 

 nocrinus venlricosus in Mr. Wachsmuth's collection, which has a crushed shell of a I'lalyci-ras 

 connected with its vault. 



t Possibly due to the fact^ that in species with a proboscis there is much less room for 

 attachment to the vault. 



i Mo.st of the best European authorities on palaeontology refer these shells even to the 

 existmg genus Cajjidus, 



1868.] 




332 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



should the Crinoid have so frequently left the Platyceras to grow within ita 

 reach to nearly its adult size before devouring it? But if from some unknown 

 cause it should have done so, by what means could the Crinoid have pulled 

 loose the Mollusk (which from analogy we may reasonably suppose held with 

 some degeee of tenacity to its place of attachment), and placed it with the 

 aperture of its shell over the opening supposed to be its own mouth ? That it 

 could have used its arms and tentacula as prehensile organs, in this sense, is 

 extremely improbable from their very structure, so much so indeed that few 

 if any of the best authorities who have investigated the recent Criuoids, 

 believe that they ever used these appendages to hand directly to the mouth, 

 even minute organisms* 



But we believe the strongest argument against the conclusion that 

 the Criuoids, so frequently found with the shell of a Platyceras attached to 

 them, died while in the act of sucking out, or otherwise extracting the softer 

 parts of these Mollusk, remains to be stated. In the first place, if such really 

 was the nature of the relations between the Crinoid and the Mollusk, it is of 

 course self-evident that the continuation of the life of the latter must have 

 necessarily been of very short duration after it came in contact with the Cri- 

 noid. Yet we have the most conclusive evidence that such was not the case ; 

 but that on the contrary, in most if not all of these instances, the Platyceras 

 must have lived long enough in contact with the Crinoid to have adapted the sinuosi- 

 ties of the margins of its shell exactly to the irregularities of the surface of the 

 Crinoid. 



We have taken some trouble to examine carefully a number of specimens 

 of Plati/crinus heinisphcericus, and Goniasteroidocrinus tuherosus, from Crawfords- 

 ville, Indiana, with each a Platyceras attached, and in all cases where the 

 specimens are not too much crushed or distorted, or the hard argillaceous 

 shaly matter too firmly adherent to prevent the line of contact between the 

 shell and Crinoid to be clearly seen, the sinuosities of the lip of the former 

 closely conform to the irregular nodose surface of the latter. Owing to the 

 fact that in some cases the shell has evidently been forced by accidental 

 pressure against the surface of the Crinoid, so as to become somewhat 

 crushed, this adaptation is not always so clearly evident; but in most cases 

 it is more or less visible, while in some it is strikingly manifest. In one 

 instance of a Platycrinus now before us, with a Platyceras attached, as usual, 

 to its side, between the arm-b3ses of two of its adjacent rays, and of rather 

 larger size than those usually found attached to this species, the adaptation 

 of the irregularities of its lip, so as to receive the little nodes and other 

 prominence of the Crinoid, is so clearly manifest that a moment's examination 

 must satisfy any one that the shell must have grown there. Being, as we 

 stated, a larger individual than we usually see so situated, it not only occupies 

 the whole of the interradial or anal space to which it is attached, but its 

 lateral margins on each side coming in contact with the arm-bases of the 

 Crinoid, as the shell increased in size, had formed on either side a profound 

 sinus in its lip for the reception of these arms. These sinuses are not only in pre- 



* la many instances it is clearly evident that it would have been an absolute impnsnhility 

 for certain types of our Carboniferous Crinoids to have handed any object great or small, di- 

 rectly to the only opening through the vault. That is, where this opening is at the extremity 

 of a straight rigid tube, often nearly twice the length of the arms, even to the extreme 

 ends of their ultimate divisions. We are aware that some have supposed this tube, or pro- 

 boscis, to nave been flexible, and the Messrs. Austin even thought it was especially de- 

 signed and used for the purpose of sucking out the softer parts of Polyps. If flexible, we 

 might suppose that in those eases where it was so much longer than the arms, that it 

 could have been curved so as to bring its extremity within reach of the ends of the arms ; 

 but although we have in a few instances seen this tube more or less bent, a careful exami- 

 nation always showed that, where this was not due to an accidental fracture after the ileath 

 of the animal, it was caused by the plates composing it being on one side larger, or 

 dilTerentlv lormed from those on the other, and evidently not to flexibility. We find the 

 arms, which were evidently flexible, folded and bent in every conceivable manner, but the 

 tube of the vault is, in nine eases out often, if not more frequently, when not aceideuially 

 distorted, found to be perf«ctly straight, or a little inclined to one side or the other. 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 333 



cisely the proper places, but of exactly the proper size and form to receive the 

 adjacent arm on each side ; the entire adjustment being so exact, that it 

 seems scarcely possible that the shell could have been removed during the 

 life of both animals, and after the Mollusk had attained its present size, with- 

 out either breaking its lip or breaking off the arms of the Crinoid. Unfortu- 

 nately, in clearing away the rather hard argillaceous matrix, before the 

 arrangement of the parts was clearly comprehended, these arras were broken 

 away, but their stumps are still seen protruding from the sinuses, which are 

 so deep as almost to present the appearance of isolated perforations, though 

 it is evident, on a careful examination, that they are only deep emarginations 

 extending up from the edge of the lip. 



In looking at the sides of this Platyceras, which has the form of a very 

 slightly arched cone,* and stands out nearly at right angles to the side of the 

 Crinoid, it is easy to see, from abrupt curves in the lines of growth, along up 

 its sides, on a line above the sinuses mentioned, that these sinuses com- 

 menced forming abruptly at points about half way up ; and on measuring 

 across between these points with a pair of dividers, the space between is 

 found to coincide very closely with that between the inner sides of the arm- 

 bases protruding from the sinuses. Hence it is evident that the shell bad 

 commenced forming these sinuses in its lip exactly at the period of its 

 growth, when it had attained a breadth that brought the edges of its lip in 

 contact with the arm-bases. After this, it had increased very little in breadih 

 between the arms of the Crinoid, though it had grown somewhat wider above 

 &nd he\ow,a.nd nearl;/ doubled lis lenffth. Whether or not it covers the open- 

 ing in the side of the vault of the Crinoid we are unable to say, since the 

 folded arms (which are, as usual in these cases, well preserved) and adhering 

 matrix, cover the vault. We have scarcely any doubt now, however, that the 

 Platyceras does, in this, as in most of the other cases, actually cover the open- 

 ing in the side of the vault of the Crinoid. 



From the facts stated it is, we think, evident that these MoUusks actually- 

 lived long enough after their connection with the Crinoids, to which we find 

 them attached, not only to have adapted the edges of their lip to fit the sur- 

 face of the Crinoid, but to have generally increased more or less in size, and 

 in some instances, at least, to have actually nearly or quite doubled their 

 size. Admitting this to be the case — and we think there can be no reas- 

 onable doubt on this point — we can no longer believe that these Crinoids 

 were preying upon the MoUusks; and we therefore think no well grounded 

 arguments can be based upon the fact of their being so frequently found 

 attached in the manner described, in favor of the conclusion that the opening 

 in the vault of these Crinoids is the mouth. 



But, if they were not in the habit of eating these MoUusks, it may be asked 

 what could have been the nature of the relations between the two, that so 

 frequently brought them together as we now find them ? The first explana- 

 tion that suggests itself is, that possibly the Mollusk may have been preying 

 upon the Crinoid. But the facf, already stated, that these MoUusks evidently 

 lived long enough attached to these Crinoids, as we have every reason to be- 

 lieve, during the life of the latter, to have at least increased the size of their 

 shells considerably, if not indeed during their entire growth, is alone an al- 

 most insurmountable objection to such a conclusion. Doubtless, like othfr 

 marine sedentary animals, these Mollnsks, when very young, floated freely 

 about in the sea, until they found a suitable station to attach themselves, 

 where they remained during life. May they not, therefore, have been attracted 

 to the bodies of Crinoids by the numerous little organisms brought in by the 

 action of cilia, along the ambulacral furrows of the arms of the Crinoids, or 

 in currents produced by the motions of the arms of the latter? The excre- 



* It being the common species of Platyceras that is usually found attached tothis Platy- 

 crinus. 



1868.] 




334 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



iiiatious matter of the Crinoid could doubtless have passed out under the foot 

 of the rialycerax, supposing the opening in the Crinoid sometimes covered by 

 these shells to haAe been the anus, but it is difficult to conceive how food 

 could have passed in, if we suppose this opening to be the mouth. 



On the Seed Vessels of FOESYTHIA. 

 BY THOMAS MEEHAN. 



Forsytlda sm^penaa Vahl., and F. viridissima Lindl., two Chinese plants, have 

 I believe, never been known to produce perfect seed, though common in cul- 

 tivation. The latter rarely produces capsules; the former bears capsules 

 freely, but no perfect seed. 



These two plants have strong specific differences ; yet my studies in devel- 

 opment, as published in papers in our Proceedings, lead me to believe them 

 to have an unity of origin. Noticing last spring that the stamens in F. siis- 

 j>ensa, and the pistil in F. viridissima, were relatively more highly developed, 

 I supposed the two might possibly be, as we say practically, male and female 

 forms of the same thing. I impregnated flowers of F. viridissima with pollen from 

 F. siispensa, and for the first time had the opportunity of examining perfect 

 capsules of this species. The seeds, however, though apparently mature, 

 proved imperfect on dissection. There is no doubt but thac F. suspeitsa con- 

 ferred on the other the power to produce capsules, — why not the additional 

 power of perfect seeds is a mystery, — though not more so perhaps than that 

 it should Itself be able to produce only seedless capsules. Another form is 

 ])robably missing, necessary to fertilize the plant and furnish the wanting 

 link to prove the hypothesis of a unity of origin. 



But some useful facts proceed from the experiment. The capsule of F. 

 viridissima I believe has never been described. Lindley, the author of the 

 species, does not seem to have seen it. It is broadly ovate, sharp pointed, 

 ai,d wrinkled, carpels of a thin papery texture, bivalvate. Seeds resem- 

 bling small grains of white wheat, wingless, developing upwards a swell as 

 down from the funiculus, shining, and profusely pitted with small dots. The 

 peduncles are rather shorter than the pods. One capsule ivas four-celled, ^ciih 

 seeds in each division. 



F. siispensa is variously described by different authors. Bunge says the 

 capsule is '-about four-seeded," Endlicher " few," and Zuccarini "numer- 

 ous." The author makes the seeds " narrowly winged." I find the capsule 

 narrowly lanceolate, ligneous, and verrucose, on pedicels double its length, 

 composed of two carpels, in one of which I counted sixteen immature winged 

 seeds; one, however, was full}" developed, although as in the other form im- 

 perfect, and this was wingless, exactly resembling those of F. viridissima in all 

 but color, which was a little darker. 



The chief interest is the relation these capsules exhibit to Syringa and to 

 the allied orders of Solanacere and Jasminaceap. It was plain in the four- 

 celled taj)sule of F. viridissima that plaeentous matter pushes out from the 

 central axis in four directions, though usually the two alternates are destitute 

 of ovules. When barren it is most highly developed. On perfect seeds it 

 forms no margin ; on imperfect ones a wing, until in Syringa, where the 

 productive division bears only a single winged seed, the unproductive one is 

 expanded into a long broad wing, pushing through the whole length of the 

 incurved carpellary margins, cementing them closely together, and thus 

 necessitating the peculiar dorsal dehiscence familiar in the common Lilac. 

 A slight difference in the vigor of plaeentous development constitutes the 

 chief cause of the differences in these three forms of capsule. 



The polyspermous placentation of Forsythia indicates an approach to Sola- 

 nacea>, and the erect tendency of the seeds to Jasmiuaceffi. 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 335 



Eemarks on some types of Carboniferous CRINOIDEA, with descriptions of 

 new Genera and Species of the same, and of one ECHINOID. 



BY F. B. MEEK AND A. H. WORTHEN, 



Of the Illinois State Geological Survey. 



Since the publication of the second volume of the Illinois Geological Re- 

 ports, in 1866, other engagements have, until recently, prevented us from at- 

 tempting any further investigations of the Crinoidea, beyond the preparation of 

 some specific descriptions for the third volume. On several occasions we have ex- 

 pressed the opinion, that the classification of these animals, as entireli/'based upon 

 the number and arrangement of the pieces composing the walls of the body below 

 the arms, without regard to the most extrao?-dinan/ diSevences in other parts, is, 

 to a considerable extent, artificial ; and that when larger collections, containing 

 perfect specimens, showing the whole structure of a greater number of species 

 of various types could be obtained for study, considerable modifications in the 

 limits of genera, as most generally understood, would be found necessary. Im- 

 pressed with this opinion, we separated in the third vo'urae of the Illinois Geo- 

 logical Reports and elsewhere, either as distinct genera, subgenera, or less 

 important sections, various types that had already been named by difi'erent 

 parties in this country and Europe, as distinct genera, but which had been 

 almost entirely overlooked or neglected by most authors, while to a few other 

 types we gave, for the first time, distinct names. 



Having recently had an opportunity to study in Mr. Wachsmuth's collection 

 at Burlington, Iowa, what we really believe to be by far the most extensive 

 collection of finely preserved Carboniferous Crinoids ever brought together, 

 either in this country or Europe, we have been more than ever impressed, not 

 only with the importance of the separations we had previously admitted, but 

 with the necessity for giving even greater prominence to some of those groups 

 than we have hitherto done, as well as for making other divisions. It is only 

 when we can study a great collection like this, in which specimens may be count- 

 ed by hundreds, showing the whole structure of numerous species belonging 

 to various genera, that it can be fully realized how readily we may arrange 

 them into perfectly natural groups, distinguished in part by other characters 

 as well as by the structure of the body. In addition to this, in attempting to 

 classify such a collection as this by taking into consideration the structure of 

 the body o/ily, we soon find that we would often have to include in a single genus 

 forms ditfering very widely, on as important other characters, as those distin- 

 guishing many of the universally admitted genera of other groups oi' Echino- 

 dermata. 



When once we have become familiar with the different groups, as separated 

 by a careful study of the entire structure of these animals, it is surprising to 

 see how readily' we may generally separate them, even from very imperfect 

 specimens, upon some seemingly unimportant characters scarcely ever noticed 

 by those who give the widest limits to genera. That such divisions greatly 

 facilitate the study of these fossils must also be evident to any one who will 

 attempt to identify the numerous species of some allied groups contained in a 

 large collection. 



With regard to the new species described in this paper, as well as others 

 that we expect to describe hereafter from the same horizon, it may be proper 

 to state, that we have had the advantage of being able to compare them direct- 

 ly (assisted by Mr. Wachsmuth) with authentic specimens of very nearly all 

 the described species from the Burlington rocks. Many of the original typical 

 specimens we have here at hand in Springfield, while Mr. Wachsmuth has in his 

 own collection good specimens of nearly all the described Burlington species. 

 Many of his specimens are also types of species, while most of those that are 

 not, have been identified from direct comparison by him and Mr. Niles and our- 



1868.] 




336 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



selves, with the original types in the possession of others at Burlington and 

 here. 



The fact that Mr. Wachsmuth is the only person (with the exception of oc- 

 casional visitors) that has been collecting at Burlington during the last four 

 or five years, and that during this time extensive excavations have been made 

 in working the numerous quarries and in opening new streets in the Burling- 

 ton rocks, has given him great advantages in collecting; consequently his col- 

 lection may now be regarded as unrivaled in the number and perfection of 

 specimens, as well as in the number of species. 



Mr. Wachsmuth informs us that he also has many duplicates that he is will- 

 ing to exchange for other Crinoids, or to dispose of in any way that may assist 

 in affording him the means of increasing his collection. 



Genus CYATHOCRINITES, Miller. 



As properly restricted to true typical species, such as the C. planus, Miller 

 and C. mammillaris. C. calcaratus and C. bursa, Phillips, the genus Cyathocrinites 

 includes forms with a more or less globose (or perhaps rarely obconic) body, 

 composed of thin pieces, wliich below the vault consist of the basal, subradial 

 and first radial plates, and but a single anal piece that can be properly regard- 

 ed as forming a part of the walls of the body below the top of the first radials. 

 Of true interradials there are apparently none. The base consists of five pieces, 

 all normally of the same form, and alternating with these there are five gen- 

 erally larger subradials, one of which, on the anal side, differs in form from 

 the others, being truncated above for the support of the only anal piece insert- 

 ed between two of the first radials. The five first radial pieces are compara- 

 tively large and alternate with the subradials all around. 



The succeeding radials are all small, more or less rounded, or sometimes an- 

 gular, and always free or form no part of the walls of the body, those of 

 each ray being distinctly separated by more or less wide interradial spaces. 

 The number of these free pieces varies from two to some six or seven to the 

 ray, the number being generally different in the different rays of the same in- 

 dividual. The arms are slender, more or less bifurcating and rounded or some- 

 times angular, and always composed of a single series of pieces provided with 

 a deep ambulacral furrow along the ventral or inner side, and apparenth' with- 

 out tentacula (pinnulje) along its margins. The column is generally if not 

 always round and pierced by a small canal, and not divisible into five sections 

 longitudinally. 



Tlie vault in this genus is always much depressed, never being extended up- 

 ward in the form of a large poriferous trunk, or so-called proboscis, as we see 

 in the typical forms of Poteriocrinus. It is very rarely preserved in the specimens 

 as usually found, but according to Phillips' and Austin's figures of C.plafius it 

 would appear to be provided with a lateral proboscis, or, more properly as we 

 think, anal tube and an apparent central oral aperture. From specimens of C. 

 malvaceits and C. lowensis, however, which we have had an opportunity to ex- 

 amine in Mr. Wachsmuth's collection and have described in another place, we 

 are satisfied that, in these species at least, which appear to be typical exam- 

 ples of the genus, the apparent central opening is closed by vault pieces, in per- 

 fect sjiecimens. These central pieces, however, are more liable to be removed 

 by any accident than the five larger surrounding pieces, because the latter are 

 more deeply inserted, in order to permit the five rather large ambulacral canals, 

 extending inward from the arm bases, to pass over them, or rather along the 

 upper side of the sutures between them, while these furrows pass in imder the 

 pieces forming the centre of the vault, which are consequently less firmly 

 fixed. 



As we have not had an opportunity to examine the original typical speci- 

 mens of C. planus, figured by Phillips and Austin, we of course cannot assert 

 positively that the vault of these types was constructed like that of the Iowa 

 species we have described, but we are strongly inclined to believe such was 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 337 



really the case, and that the apparent central opening was closed by vault 

 pieces when the specimen was entire. 



Of the American species presenting, so far as known, the characters of this 

 genus as properly restricted, the following examples maybt mentioned, though 

 the vault of only the first two of these species is yet known to us, viz., C. mal- 

 vaceus, Hall, C. Iowensis,0\ven and Shumard, C. [Poleriocrinus) Barrisii, C.vimi- 

 nalis, C. lamellosus, C, divaricatus and C. rotundatus, Hall ; also C. Saffordi and 

 perhaps C. Farleyi, M. and W., and C. riffidus, White. 



N'ew species. 

 Cyathocrimites fragilis, M. and W. 



Body subsphffiroidal, a little oblique, rather regularly rounded to the column 

 below, from near the middle, and a little contracted above ; composed of remar- 

 kably thin plates. Facet for the attachment of the column not excavated and very 

 small. Base having the form of a very shallow, subpentagonal basin; basal 

 ])ieces with a general subquadrangular form, but really pentagonal, from the 

 slight truncation of their smaller inner ends at their connection with the column. 

 Subradial pieces comparatively large, hexagonal, excepting the one on the 

 anal side, which is larger than the others and heptagonal in outline. First 

 radial pieces rather smaller than the largest subradials, somewhat wider than 

 high, with a general subpentagonal form ; all strongly incurved above between 

 the free radials ; facet for the reception of the second radials about one-third 

 the breadth of the first radials and rather deeply excavated. Anal piece rather 

 smaller than the first radials, longer than wide, irregularly hexagonal and sup- 

 porting the outer side of the ventral tube (proboscis), which, like the body, is 

 composed of very thin plates. Second (first free) radials very small, short 

 and not always extending entirely across the excavation for their reception ; 

 succeeding radials, excepting the last, quadrangular, as viewed on the outside, 

 about twice as wide as long, and abruptly rounded or subangular on the out- 

 side ; last one pentagonal and generally a little longer than the others. Of 

 these free radials four may be counted in one of the posterior rays, six in the 

 other, three in one of the lateral rays, and seven in the anterior ray. 



Arms at their origin on the last radials rather divergent, and in one of the 

 posterior rays seen to bifurcate on the sixth piece, above Avhich one of the 

 divisions can be traced to the sixth piece without farther bifurcation, though 

 there are probably other divisions beyond ; arm pieces about as long as wide, 

 and, like those of the free radials, all deeper than wide, and pi'ofoundly 

 grooved within for the reception of the ambulacral organs. Surface smooth 

 or only very finely granular. 



Height of body, 0-50 inch : greatest breadth of same, about 0-75 inch. 



This species is related to C. rotimdattis, Hall, but not only differs in having 

 its free radial series much stouter (judging from the facets for their reception 

 in the tj-pical specimen of that species now before us), but in having all of its 

 body plates very decidedly thinner, while its first radials also diifer in curving 

 strongly inward, between the bases of the free rays. It likewise comes from 

 the lower division of the Burlington beds, while the rotundatus came from 

 the upper, and it has been found that scarcely any of the species are common 

 to those two horizons. 



Localitfi and position. — Burlington, Iowa ; lower part of Burlington limestone. 

 Mr. Wachsmuth's collection. 



Cyathocrinites tenuidactylus, M. and W. 

 Body, exclusive of the free rays, deeply cup-shaped, rounded below, com- 

 posed of moderately thick plates for a true Cyathocritius. Column compara- 

 tively rather stout, composed near the base of alternately thin and somewhat 

 thicker pieces, the latter of which project a little and seem to show a slight 

 tendency to become minutely nodular ; central canal distinctly peiitapetalous 

 in the form of its cross section. Base unknown (being accidentally shoved 



1868.] 




338 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



into the body with the end of the column in the specimen studied). Subra- 

 dials of moderate size, those seen hexagonal. First radials somewhat larger 

 than the subradials, a little wider than long, with a general subpentagonal 

 form; facet for the reception of the second radials about one-third as wide as 

 the upper side of the plate and excavated about one-third of the way down. 

 Second radial pieces very small, wider than long, and with the succeeding ra- 

 dials curving outward. Third radial in one of the rays nearly as long as wide, 

 expanded above and contracted below, and in this ray surmounted by a fourth, 

 which, like the third in each of the only two other rays seen, is a triangular 

 axillary piece, on which the arms rest, the upper angle being acute and so pro- 

 duced as entirely to separate the arm-bases, while the lateral slopes, on which 

 the arms rest, are distinctly concave. Anal piece unknown. 



Arms distinctly divergent at their origin on the last radials, as well as at 

 their succeeding bifurcations, dividing on the third piece in two of the rays 

 seen, and on the fourth in another, the pieces being rounded, nearly as wide as 

 long, somewhat constricted in the middle and a little dilated at their upper 

 ends, while all of the axillary pieces at the various bifurcations have much the 

 same form as the last free radials. Beyond the first bifurcations mentioned, 

 above the last free radials, several of the arms are seen to bifurcate again on 

 the fifth piece and twice to three times more at various distances above, while 

 they all gradually decrease in thickness with each bifurcation until they be- 

 come much attenuated, though the pieces of which they are composed main- 

 tain their length to such a degree that those of the smaller divisions are near- 

 ly twice as long as wide. 



Surface of body plates slightly beveled at the sutures and more or less 

 roughened by small ridges or nodes, which on the subradial pieces present 

 the appearance of nearly continuous, radiating, somewhat nodulous ridges, 

 while those of the first radials have more the character of irregularly disposed 

 nodes. 



Length of body below the top of first radial pieces, 0-40 inch ; breadth of 

 same aijout 0-64 inch ; length of arms from their origin on the last radials at 

 least 2 inches and perhaps a little more. 



This species seems to be more nearly allied to specimens in Mr. Wachs- 

 muth's collection that have been identified with Poteriocrinus Barrisi, Hall, than 

 to any other form with which we are acquainted. It differs entirely, however, 

 in its sculpturing, that species having its body plates marked with numerous, 

 rather fine, thread-like, radiating costte. The arms, however, are more similar 

 to those of our species, though they are rather stouter below in the latter. 



We have not had an opportunity to see the type of Poteriocrinus Barrisi, but 

 the form in Mr. Wachsmuth's collection, referred to that species by all the 

 Burlington Geologists, is a true Cyathocrimis, or more properly Cyathocrinites. 



Locality and position. — Lower division of the Burlington beds (Lower Carbo- 

 niferous) at Burlington, loAva. Mr. Wachsmuth's collection. 



Genus BARYCRLNUS, Wachsmuth, MS. 



(finpug-, heavy; zo/Vnv, a lily ; in allusion to the ponderous nature of the plates 

 and arms.) 

 Amongst the various American Carboniferous species that have been re- 

 ferred by different authors to the genus Cyathocrinus, there is a group of spe- 

 cies which, although agreeing with that genus almost exactly in the number and 

 arrangement of the pieces composing the body below the top of the first radials, 

 that still differs in several rather strongly-marked characters. In the first 

 place, these species are all more robust,* and have distinctly thicker and more 

 ponderous plates and arms than in the typical forms of Cyathocrinus. They 

 also differ in generally having a more or less developed, quadrangular subanal 



* Some of thera attain the gigantic size of more than 3-25 inches in breadth of body. 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 339 



piece, inserted obliquel}' under one side of the first radial of the right posterior 

 ray, and connecting with the only other anal piece above by a short oblique 

 truncation of its right lower margin. This subaual piece varies in its propor- 

 tional size, even in difierent individuals of the same species, and is sometimes 

 very small, or even occasionally wanting, while it is very rarely, if ever, 

 large enough to separate the first radial and the true anal piece above 

 entirely from each other. A more constant difference, however, is the uniform 

 presence of but two of the free primary radial pieces to each ray (instead of an 

 irregular number), excepting perhaps sometimes in the anterior ray, where 

 there may be one or two more. These free radials are also proportionally wider 

 and shorter than in the typical forms of Cyathocrinus, particularly the second 

 radial, which is often so short and wide as to present a nearly transversely 

 linear appearance, as seen on the outer side. 



As in Cyathocrinus, the species of this group have their arms and all their 

 divisions composed each of a single series of pieces, apparently without pin- 

 nuhe ; but here these pieces are alwaj's very much stouter, distincth* rounded, 

 and only provided with comparativelj' very small, or almost linear ambulacral 

 furrows. Again, they present marked differences in their method of division. 

 That is, instead of regularly dichotomizing, so as to form equal divisions more 

 or less frequently subdividing in the same way, the subdivisions regularly di- 

 minishing in thickness, they are often simple from their origin on the last ra- 

 dials, and merely give off along their inner lateral margins, at regular intervals, 

 alternately on opposite sides, stout, rounded, simple armlets. In some instances 

 one arm of each lateral ray, and sometimes one of each posterior ray, dichoto- 

 mizes once or oftener, but even in these cases the other arms remain simple, 

 and, like the principal branches of those that bifurcate, merely throw off alter- 

 nately, at regular intervals along their inner lateral margins, stout armlets. If 

 these armlets in this group performed the same offices as pinnulaj in other 

 Crinoids, as we have everj' reason to believe the ultimate subdivisions of the 

 arms in Cyathocrinua proper did, the sacks for the reception of the ova must 

 have protruded considerably beyond the edges of the merely linear ambulacral 

 furrows. 



In the column of Barycrimis we also observe some more or less defined differ- 

 ences from that of Cyathocrinus. For instance, in the former group it is pro- 

 portionality stouter, with a much larger canal, which is also rarely, if ever, 

 perfectly round, but apparently always obtusely subpentagonal. But the most 

 remarkable difference consists in its being often divisible longitudinally into 

 five sections in Barycrinus. This character is not always well marked, being 

 apparently sometimes obliterated by the sutures becoming anchylosed. In 

 some cases, however, it is so strongly defined that we find the column with 

 these sutures more or less separated along its entire length, and in some spe- 

 cies there were apparently pores passing through these sutures to tlie cavity 

 within. We are aware that several other types of Crinoids had the column in 

 this way divisible into five parts longitudinally, but we have not seen any in- 

 dications of it in the typical forms of the genus Cyathocrinus. 



In regard to the vault of this group nothing is known, not a single individual 

 of the numerous specimens belonging to various species hitherto found, show- 

 ing, so far as we are aware, any traces of it. From this very fact, however, it 

 seems probable that its vault differed from that of Cyathocrinus proper in being 

 merely a soft ventral disc, without any covering of calcareous plates. If it 

 had possessed the power of secreting vault pieces, it seems probable, from the 

 thick ponderous nature of all its other parts, that these would have been suffi- 

 ciently firm to have been found in place, in some of the numerous specimens 

 now known. In addition to this, the upper inner edges of the first radial pieces, 

 on each side of the free radials, are beveled off to an obtuse edge, and show no 

 facets for the attachment of vault pieces. 



Whatever may be thought in regard to this group being entitled to rank as 

 a distinct genus, or as a subgenus, from Cyathocrinus, we can only say that the 



1868.] 




340 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



various species of the two groups can be as readily separated, even without 

 specimens showing the arms, as those of any other two allied genera. Indeed, 

 they can be far more readily separated than Scaphiocrinus and Zeacrinus, or 

 than the former can in all cases be separated from Poteriocrinus. 



Believing that a systematic classification of the Crinoidea really requires the 

 separation of the group under consideration from the types for which the name 

 Cyathocrinus Avas originally proposed, we cheerfully adopt for it Mr. Wach- 

 smuth's appropriate manuscript name, Barycrinus. Mr. Wachsmuth refers to 

 this group the following species, the first of which he regards as the typical 

 form, — viz. : B. spurius, B. crassibrachiatus, B. huUatus, B. tumidus, B. vtagister, 

 B. Hoveyi, B. latua, B. Lyoni, B. sculptilis, B. Thomne and B. protuberatis, all de- 

 scribed by Prof. Hall under the name Cyathocrinus ; also B. cornutus [zz=Cyatho- 

 crinus cornutus, Owen and Shumard). 



We likewise place in this group our B. Wachsmuifn, B. angulatus and B. sub- 

 tumidus, all of which were originally described by us under the name Cyatho- 

 crinus. It is possible our Cyathocrinus ? Sangamonens may belong here, as it 

 has the same thick body plates, as well as the small quadrangular intercalated 

 subanal piece. Still, as all its first radial pieces are evenly truncated, their 

 entire breadth straight across above, and provided with a transverse furrow, as 

 if for the articulation of the second radials, it is probable these and the succeed- 

 ing radials and arms (which are unknown) had a different structure and 

 arrangement. It is certainly not a true Cyathocrinus, however, as properly re- 

 stricted, but more probably belongs to an undescribed genus. 



Barycrinus magnificcs, M. and. W. 



Body attaining a gigantic size, cup-shaped, or widening rather rapidly, with 

 moderately convex sides from the column to the. top of the first radials. Base 

 shallow, basin-shaped, or about four and a half times as wide as high, with a 

 large concave facet for the attachment of the column, and a large, obscurely 

 five-lobed perforation for the connection of the central cavity of the column 

 with the visceral cavity of the body. Basal pieces regularly pentagonal. Sub- 

 radial plates about five or six times as large as the basal pieces, as wide as 

 long or slightly wider, all regularly hexagonal, excepting one on the anal 

 side, which is a little shorter than the others, and truncated above for the re- 

 ception of the anal piece, so as to present a general heptagonal outline. First 

 radial pieces about one- third wider than high, and larger (particularly wider) 

 than the sultradials, each presenting a general pentagonal outline, and pro- 

 vided with a rather shallow, outward sloping, concave facet, occupying more 

 than one-third its entire breadth, for the reception of the succeeding radials. 

 Second radial pieces very much smaller than the first, extremely short, or only 

 about one-fourth as long in the middle as wide, and becoming much thinner, 

 or wedge-shaped, on each side. Third radials a little longer in proportion to 

 their breadth than the second, and presenting a subtrigonal outline, supporting 

 on their sloping upper sides, broad, short, rounded arm-pieces. Anal piece 

 about half as wide, and nearly of the same length as the first radials, and 

 subquadrangular in form. Surface marked with small pustules, which oftep 

 become confluent, so as to produce a peculiar corrugated roughness, some- 

 what similar to the ornamentation we see on the bod}' plates of the true 

 Amphoracrinus, but coarser. 



Breadth of body3-33 inches; height of do., 2-20 inches; breadth of base, 0-60 

 inch ; breadth of facet for the reception of the column, 0-85 inch ; do. of largest 

 first radial piece, 1-70 inches; height of same, 1-30 inches. Thickness of one 

 of the arms at base, 0-70 inch. 



This splendid Crinoid was found by Mr. Green, of the Illinois Survey, with 

 its plates detached and lying near together in the rather soft matrix. After 

 working out the pieces, we succeeded in building up the entire body to the 

 third radials and first arm-pieces, inclusive, excepting the anal piece, which 

 was not found. It presents a very striking appearance, and is the largest Cri- 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 341 



noid we have ever seen. If its arms were as long in proportion as those of 

 some other species of this group, they must have been near twelve inches in 

 length, and with its column, body and arms together, it may have been more 

 than four feet in height. It is evidently related to Barycrinus magister, Hall 

 (sp.), but differs from that species, the type of which is now before us, in having 

 its surface roughened by numerous small pustules, showing a tendency to run 

 together into vermicular markings, with an obscure effort, on some of the 

 plates, to assume a radiating arrangement. It is true, the typical specimen of 

 B. magister consists of only the basal pieces and a portion of the column, but 

 these basal plates show no traces of the peculiar surface markings seen even 

 on the base of our species, while we have before us, from the same original 

 locality', another specimen of that species, consisting of the whole body, in a 

 flattened and crushed condition, and, although the surface of its plates is well- 

 preserved, they show no indications whatever of the surface markings seen on 

 our species. 



Those who give a wide latitude to genera will probably not regard such 

 forms as this as being generically distinct from Cyathocrinus ; even if that view 

 should ultimately prevail, however, we should insist upon their separation as 

 a strongly marked subgenus, and continue to write the name of our species 

 Cyathocrinites [Barycrinus) magnificus. 



Locality and position. — Henderson county, near Biggsville, Illinois ; from the 

 Keokuk group of the Lower Carboniferous. 



Barycrinus Hoveyi, var. Herculeus. 



Amongst other Crinoids from Grawfordsville, Indiana, we have before us 

 several very large, fine specimens, agreeing well with Prof. Hall's description 

 of his Cyathocrinus Hoveyi (Bost. Jour. Nat. Hist. vol. vii, p. 293), excepting in 

 some important points in the structure of the arms. We suspect that these 

 specimens are specifically distinct, but as neither any measurement, nor figures 

 of the C Hoveyi, have j'et been published, we cannot feel quite sure of this, and 

 therefore place them, provisionally, as a variety of the species Hoveyi, under 

 the name Herculeus, which we propose to retain for the species if the differences 

 to be noted are found to be constant, and of specific value. 



The differences to which we allude are the following : In C. Hoveyi the arms 

 of the antero-lateral rays are said to " have the anterior division twice bifur- 

 cating, above which the divisions give off branchlets, and the same feature 

 marks the entire length of the lateral arm of the antero-lateral ray, which is 

 smaller than the other." In the specimens before us, the anterior lateral rays 

 have each the. posterior division bifurcating once near the base, while the ante- 

 rior division is simple, and larger, instead of smaller, than the other. Again, 

 the Hoveyi is said to have, " in the postero-lateral arms, the lateral division of 

 the rays bifurcating on the fourth piece, above which branchlets are thrown 

 off, as in the others." In the specimens before us, however, both arms of the 

 posterior rays are, like those of the anterior ray, and one of each lateral (or 

 anterior lateral) rays, simple from their origin on the third radials, very long, 

 stout, and give off along their inner lateral margins stout, simple armlets, al- 

 ternately at regular intervals. As we have seen several specimens all agreeing 

 in these characters, we are inclined to think this may be a specific difference. 



In one of the specimens before us the body measures 1-10 inches from the 

 base to the top of the first radials, and about 1-4U inches in breadth. The arms 

 show a length of 4 inches, and are broken at the ends, so as to appear to have 

 been, when entire, nearly one inch longer. They are very straight, nearly 

 cylindrical, and measure 0-22 inch in diameter near the middle, where each arm- 

 piece measures about 0"15 inch in length, and the lateral armlets nearly the 

 same in diameter. 



Genus NIPTEROCRINUS, Wachsmuth, MS. 

 {xiTrryifi, a washing vessel ; k/x'vov, a lily; in allusion to its basin-shaped body.) 

 Mr. Wachsmuth has proposed the above name, in manuscript, for a type 



1868.] 




842 



PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



agreeing with Ci/athocrinus proper in the thinness of its body plates, in the na- 

 ture of the bifurcations of its arms, and apparently in the general structure of 

 its body, excepting that it has no anal plate, the first radials being large, wide, 

 and in contact all around, so as to leave no spaces for anal or interradial 

 pieces. The succeeding radials after the first are comparatively small, and 

 number from three to four (so far as yet known) to each ray, the first always 

 resting in rounded sinuses in the upper edge of the large first i-adials, much as 

 in Cyathocrinus, excepting that these free radials are very short, more as we see 

 in Barycrinus. They differ, however, from those of both Ci/athocrinus and Ba- 

 rya-inus, in each having its lower edge along the outer side of the arms pro- 

 duced downward, into a corresponding sinus in tlie upper outer edge of each 

 succeeding piece below, so as to present much the appearance seen in the arms 

 of Taxocrinus, Onyc/wcrinus and Forbesiocrimis, excepting that the produced part 

 does not seem to be separate patelliform pieces, but merely the downward 

 produced lower outer edge of each arm-piece itself. 



None of the specimens yet found show the number of basal pieces, but we can 

 see that its body is composed of small basals, witli five well-developed subra- 

 dials of uniform shape, and five large first radials. This structure of the body, 

 it will be seen, is exactly that of Erisocrinus, — that is if the base is composed 

 of five pieces, which is very probable. The whole structure and aspect of the 

 parts above, however, is entirely different in these groups, since in Krisocrinas 

 there are alwaj-s but two primary radial pieces to each ray, while the second 

 radials are as large as the first, and instead of merely resting in small sinuses 

 in the upper part of the latter, the two articulate together by straight edges 

 across their entire breadth, the articulating edges being always provided with 

 a crenated transverse ridge and furrows. The arms of Ensocrhius are also 

 much stouter, and present none of tlie characters of the type under considera- 

 tion, while all of its body and arm pieces also differ in being very thick. 



It is an interesting fact that the column of the genus here described, as well 

 as its arms, present a striking similarity to that of Taxocrinus and allied groups, 

 being round, and composed near the body of exceedingly thin pieces, connect- 

 ing by crenate surfaces, and provided with a comparatively small central 

 canal. Notwithstanding these points of resemblance, however, to Taxocrinus, 

 it is evident that this group is more nearly allied to Cyathocrinus. If it has, as 

 seems to be the case, five basal pieces, the formula of the genus would be as 

 follows : 



Basal pieces 5 ; subradials 5, all of the same form ; radials 4 to 5 X 5, the 

 first being large and forming the larger part of the body, the others small and 

 free ; anals ; interradials ; arms bifurcating, and resembling those of Taxo- 

 crinus. 



Some five or six specimens of this type show that the absence of anal pieces 

 is not an abnormal, but a constant character. 



NiPTEROCRiNus Wachsmuthi, M. and W. 

 Body rather deeply basin-shaped, or a little more than twice as wide 

 as high, rounding under from the top of the first radials to the column. 

 Base small, fiat, and nearly hidden by the column. Subradial pieces 

 of moderate size, somewhat wider than long, and all pentagonal, there 

 being no visible angle at the middle of the under side of any of tlicni. First 

 radials comparatively very large, or about three times the size of the subradi- 

 als, twice as wide as higli. and all alike pentagonal ; while each is provided 

 with a rather deep rounded sinus above, equaling about one-third of its breadth, 

 for the reception of the succeeding radials, on each side of which its upper 

 margin is nearly straight, horizontal, and not incurved. Second radials so short 

 as scarcely to fill the sinus in the upper side of the first, and owing to the con- 

 cave outline above, often presenting a narrow transversely crescentic form. 

 Third and fourth radials (where there are five) very short, or several times as 

 wide as long, and usually somewhat arcuate inversely. Last (fourth or fifth) 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 343 



radials a little longer than the next below, and generally trigonal or subpen- 

 tagoaal (the upper angle being somewhat salient), and supporting the arms on 

 its sloping sides. Arms rounded, rather divergent, and bifurcating on the sixth 

 or seventh piece above their bases, and again once or oftener farther up, the 

 divisions above each bifurcation being about half as large as the main arm 

 below ; arm-pieces about twice as wide as long, not wedge-shaped, but all 

 showing the downward curvature quite distinctly, and slightly constricted on 

 each side. Surface merely finely granular, and the plates of the body neither 

 beveled nor tumid. Column composed of such thiu pieces that about fifteen of 

 thera may be counted in a length equaling its own thickness, near the base. 



Height of body of the largest specimen to top of first radials, about 0-43 inch ; 

 breadth near 1 inch. 



Thickness of column of same, near base, 0-20 inch ; diameter of its subpen- 

 tagonal caual, 0-05 inch. 



This Crinoid is so unlike all others known to us, that it is scarcely necessary 

 to compare it with any of the described forms. The specific name is given in 

 honor of Mr. Charles Wachsmuth, the author of the genus, to whom we are in- 

 debted for the loan of the typical specimens. 



Locality and position. — Upper Burlington beds of the Lower Carboniferous. 

 Burlington, Iowa. 



Mr. Wachsmuth's collection. 



Genus CATILLOCRINUS, Troost. 

 Catillocrinus Bradleyi, M. and W. 

 Body small, basin-shaped or rather broadly truncated below for connection 

 with the column, and moderately expanding upward to the top of the radials 

 supporting the arms. Lower series of plates visible around the top of the 

 column, anchjiosed together, and presenting the form of a broad low dish 

 many times wider than high, with the margins sinuous above for the reception 

 of the next range of pieces. Succeeding range of plates presenting the usual 

 irregular form of the genus, two of them being much larger than the others, 

 very wide at the top, and supporting nearly or quite all of the arms ; between 

 these on one side there is a much smaller triangular piece on the same range, 

 and extending up as high as the others, but so narrow at the top that it could 

 not have supported more than one or two, if any, of the small arms. On the 

 opposite side there are two other small intercalated pieces, the smaller of which 

 is triangular and scarcel^^ extends up to the top of the cup, while the other is 

 oblong, extends to the top of the cup, and supports either another somewhat 

 smaller (anal ?) piece above, or the base of an arm much larger than the others. 

 Arms about 44, in contact at their bases, and all slender and composed of 

 joints two or three times as long as wide. Surface smooth. Column compara- 

 tively very large (circular?), with a large round central canal, and composed 

 near the base of rather thin pieces of uniform size. 



Height of body, 0-18 inch; breadth at top, 24 inch ; breadth of column at 

 the base of the body, 0-13 inch. 



This species will be at once distinguished from ('. Tetmesse.ex of Troost by 

 its much smaller size, and smooth instead of coarsely granular plates. It is 

 much more nearly allied to our 0. Wachsmuthi, from the Burlington group, but 



.'body is less expanded at the top, and it also differs in having a compara- 

 tivel}^ large anal ? piece, or larger arm, between the others on one side. Named 

 in honor of Prof. Frank H. Bradley, of Hanover College, late of the Illinois 

 Geological Survey, who discovered the only specimen known. 



Loculiti/ and position. — Crawfordsville, Indiana ; Keokuk division of Lower 

 Carboniferous series. 



Genus DICHOCRINUS, Munster. 

 DicHOCRiNus EXPANSus, M. and W. 

 Body expanding rather rapidly from the facet for the attachment of the col- 



1868.] 




344 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



umn, to the top of the base, and still more rapidly from there to the top of the 

 first radials, so as to make the breadth at the latter point about twice the 

 height. Base forming less than half the height of the body, somewhat basin- 

 shaped, though narrow below, or ornamented with small irregular wart-like 

 nodes, which show some tendency to form three or four vertical rows, or ridges 

 on each basal piece. First radial pieces comparatively large, somewhat oblong 

 in form, being longer than wide, with the widest end above, all convex along 

 up the middle, and strongly beveled, or excavated along the sutures on each 

 side, — while the surface of each is ornamented with small, irregular, wart-like 

 nodes, similar to those on the base ; these sometimes coalesce into irregular 

 ridges, but are usually arranged in three rows, starting from the most promi- 

 nent upper end of the plates, and radiating to the base ; facet for the reception 

 of the second radial pieces about one-third the breadth of the upper end of the 

 plates, and somewhat excavated. Anal piece of much the same size, and 

 general nodose appearance as the first radial on each side, but somewhat longer, 

 and having an irregular hexagonal form. Second radial pieces small, about 

 twice as wide as long, and more or less quadrangular in form. Third radials 

 slightly larger than the second, with a pentagonal form, the upper sloping 

 sides supporting the first division of the arms. 



Arms rounded, composed at first of pieces about as long as wide, upon the 

 second or third of wliich they bifurcate, the outer divisions remaining simple, 

 and the inner ones bifurcating again on the second or third piece, the outer 

 division, as before, remaining simple, and the inner bifurcating a third time on 

 the second pieces, thus making in the posterior rays (the only ones seen) eight 

 arms to each ray, or forty in the whole series, if other rays have the same num- 

 ber. All the simple arms are long, slender, rounded, and but slightly tapering ; 

 near their bases they are each composed of a single series of somewhat wedge- 

 formed pieces, but gradually pass into a double series of minute interlocking 

 pieces. 



Breadth of body, 0-98 inch ; height about 0-43 inch. Length of one of the 

 simple arms, about 1-fciO inches; thickness of same at base, 0-05 inch. 



Associated with the specimen from which the foregoing description was 

 drawn up, several other imperfect examples were found, differing more or less 

 in form and in the arrangement of their ornamentation, which either indicate 

 considerable variations in these characters, or the existence of several allied 

 species. One of these has the first radial and anal plates more abruptly spread- 

 ing, and proportionally wider than in the typical form, while its nodes are more 

 coalescent, so as more generally to run into continuous ribs. On the base, for 

 instance, each of the two plates has three somewhat nodulous vertical ridges, 

 with intervening rows of the little nodes, while the three rows of nodes on the 

 first radial and anal pieces often run together so as to form mere nodulous 

 ridges. It is possible this would be found to be a distinct species, if we could 

 examine a specimen showing the arms. If so, it may be called D. stelliformis, 

 in allusion to the star-like appearance produced by its spreading first radial 

 pieces, with their little ridges running outward and converging to the outer 

 extremity of each. 



In another individual the nodes and ridges are all nearly obsolete, excepting 

 a few of the former, which are very prominent at the middle of the outer ends 

 of the first radials; while another has a single prominent node near the small 

 facet in each first radial, for the reception of the second, with a few irregularly 

 scattering nodes on other parts, and slender, obscure, nodular ridges near the 

 lateral margins. From the general appearance of these specimens, we are 

 rather inclined to the opinion that they are all varieties of one variable species. 

 Locality and position. — Same as last. 



Genus DORYORINUS, Roemer. 

 In the second volume of the Reports of the Geological Survey of Illinois, we 

 distinctly recognized the Dorycrinus group as forming a well-defined genus, 



[Dec. 




NATITRAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 345 



clearly separated from Actinocrinvs (as properly restricted), to which genus 

 they have generally been referred ; but owing to the fact that at that time we 

 had never seen either a specimen or a figure of an Amphoracrinus showing the 

 arms, body, and parts connected with the opening of the vault, all preserved 

 together, we were under a misapprehension in regard to the true characters of 

 that group, and consequently placed Dorycrinus as a synonym under it. Re- 

 cently, however, we have been so fortunate as to see in Mr. Wachsmuth's ex- 

 tensive collection beautiful specimens of both types, in a remarkably fine state 

 of preservation, and from these we are satisfied that a systematic classification 

 of the Crinoidea requires these two groups to be separated as distinct genera. 



In the first place, it may be proper to remark that in both of these groups 

 the structure of the body, so far as regards the number and arrangement of 

 the pieces below the arm-bases, is almost exactly the same as in Actinocrinus.* 

 Tlie structure of the parts above, however, is very difi'erent. For instance, in 

 Dorycrinus the opening of the vault is never at the end of a more or less pro- 

 longed tube, or so-called proboscis, nor even in the slightest degree proboscidi- 

 form, but is merely a simple aperture penetrating a somewhat thickened pro- 

 tuberance, and nearly always situated and opening laterally. The vault in 

 this group is generally provided with a more or less prominent spine over each 

 ray, and a sixth one in the middle. Sometimes these are all, or in part, merely 

 represented by nodes, or even in some instances nearly obsolete, while in others 

 they are extravagantly developed. Again, Dorycrinus differs from both Acti- 

 nocrinus and Amphoracrinus in having, so far as yet known, always two arms 

 i-pringing directly from each arm-opening, and these arms always simple. Our at- 

 tention was first called to this by Mr. Wachsmuth, who is a vtry careful and 

 accurate observer, and we found it to be so in all the specimens in his collec- 

 tion, while he assures us that this is the casein all the specimens found by the 

 various collectors at Burlington, as well as all of those he has yet seen from 

 other localities, with the arms attached. Hence in all of the species of this 

 group described by Prof. Hall and others, where the number of arms has been 

 given from merely counting the arm-openings, — and specimens of these have 

 since been observed with the arms attached, — their number is found to he just 

 double that stated in the descriptions. It is also worthy of note that in this group 

 the body plates are either plane, more or less tumid, or tuberculiform, and 

 never marked with proper radiating costie, as we often see in Actinocrinus. 



The following is a list of the described species belonging to this group, all of 

 which are, so far as known, exclusively American types, and confined to the 

 Lower Carboniferous, viz. : Dorycrinus Ifississippiensis, Roemer, and D. Gouldi, 

 f D. cornigerus* D. divaricatus* D. trinodus, D. quinquelobus* D. symmetricus* 

 D. desiderattis, D. unispimis,* and D. subaculeati/s, Hall (sp.), all of which were 

 described by Prof. Hall under the name Actinocrinus. It likewise includes D. 

 Missouriensis* {==Act. Missouriensis, Shumard) and D. unicornis* [= Act. uni- 

 cornis,\ Owen and Shumard), as well as our D. subturbinatus,* originally de- 

 scribed as an Actinocrinus. 



It might at a first glance be supposed also to include Actinocrinus corniculus 

 and A. brevis of Hall, but these forms (which Mr. Wachsmuth's collections 

 clearly show to be only varieties of one species) have but a single arm from 

 each arm-opening (two to each ray), and these arms with the proportional 

 stoutness, general structure, and broad pieces at their bases, of Agaricorinus. 

 Hence this species can only be regarded as a somewhat aberrant form of the 

 latter genus. 



To the genus Dorycrinus we also refer the following new species : 



* Dorycrinus, however, differs from Actinocrinus in having the second radial pieces 

 nearly always short and quadrangular, instead of hexagonal. 



t Specimens of all the species 'marked witii an asterisk have been found with the arms 

 attached, and presenting the characters mentioned above. The arms of the others remain 

 unknown. 



X 'I'he proposed species A. iricornis and A. pendens, Hall, are believed to be only variedes 

 of unicornis of O. and S. 



1868.] 



23 




346 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



DoRYCRiNus RoEMERi, M. and W. 

 Body somewhat urn-shaped, being obconical below the arms to the truncated 

 base, and moderately prominent above, the vault forming rather more than 

 one-third of tlie entire height; greatest breadth at the arm-bases. Base trun- 

 cated and somewhat concave below, about twice as wide as high, slightly ex- 

 ])anded and a little angular below, witli broad, rather shallow notches at the 

 sutures. First radial pieces about twice and a half as wide as high, two hep- 

 tagonal and three hexagonal, each one swelling out so as to form a moderately 

 jjrominent, rather obtuse, transversely elongated node. Second radials one- 

 third to nearly one-half as long as the first, quadrangular, a little wider than 

 long, and more or less tumid. Third radials rather larger than the second, 

 wider than long, pentagonal, hexagonal and heptagonal ; each one supporting 

 on each of its superior sloping sides a pentagonal secondary radial, of rather 

 smaller size, each of which in the posterior rays supports, in its turn, on each 

 side above, one, or sometimes two, brachial pieces, making four arm-openings 

 to each of these rays. This seems to be the case also in the right lateral ray, 

 while one of the secondary radials, in the specimen studied, appears to be merely 

 truncated, so as to support (perhaps abnormally) only one brachial piece, 

 thus making only three arm-openings to this ray. The brachial and secondary 

 radial pieces of the anterior ray are broken away in the specimen, but it is 

 probable there were four arm-openings in this ray. If so, there would be nine- 

 teen arm-openings (probably normally twenty) in the entire series, and thirty- 

 eight to forty arms, counting two to each opening. 



First anal piece of the same size and form as the first radials, and, like them, 

 swelling out into a transversely elongated node. Above this there are two 

 heptagonal, and one apparently hexagonal, rather tumid pieces in the second 

 range, and above the latter several other pieces extending up between the arm- 

 bases, so as to connect with a series of pieces forming a thickened protuberance 

 rising even slightly higher than the summit of the vault, and pierced by the 

 anal opening, which is situated considerably above the horizon of the arm- 

 bases, but still directed laterally. Interradial pieces three to each area, the first 

 being about half as large as the subradials, heptagonal or octagonal, and sup- 

 porting two somewhat elongated irregularly formed pieces that are scarcely 

 convex, and connect, by their narrow upper ends, with vault pieces above. 

 Vault somewhat rounded, with lateral spines very short, or merely having the 

 form of rather prominent conical nodes; central piece somewhat tumid, but 

 not even conical. Arms and column unknown. 



Named in honor of Dr. F. Roemer, the founder of the genus Dorycrinus. 

 Height of body to top of vault, I -40 inches ; do. to top of anal protuberance, 

 1-45 inch ; breadth at arm-bases, 1-30 inch; breadth of base, fe-55 inch. 



This species is perhaps more nearly allied to D. Missouriensis, Shumard (sp ) 

 than to any other yet known. It will be readily distinguished, however, by 

 several well-marked characters. In the first place, its base is not thickened 

 and expanded as in that species. Again, its vault is not so flattened on top, 

 nor the si)ines, or tumid pieces over the rays, near so large. In the Missouri- 

 ensis the latter character is so strongly marked as to place the widest part of 

 the body above the arm-bases, which consequently have the appearance of 

 being attached half-way down the sides of the body, while in the species under 

 consideration the body is distinctly wider at the arm-base than above. Our 

 species also has seven or eight arms more than Dr. Shumard's. 



Those who prefer to view the Vorycnnus group as only a section of Actino- 

 criiiits will, vre hope, at least write the name of this species Actinocrinus i^Dory- 

 crinus') Roemeri. 



Locality and position. — Upper part of the Burlington beds, of the Lower Car- 

 boniferous series, at Burlington, Iowa. No. 127 of Mr. Wachsmuth's collection. 



DoRYCRINnS QUINQUELOBUS, Var. INTERMEDIUS. 



On comparing this form with the typical specimen of D. quinquelobus [t=Acli- 

 nocrinus quinqxielobus, Hall, Supp. Iowa Geol. Rei)ort, vol. i, p, 15), we find that 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 347 



it agrees very closely in the structure of its body, as well as in the number of 

 arm-opening-3 to each ray (that is, four to the anterior and each posterior ray, 

 and two in each of the lateral rays), but at the same time it presents some other 

 differences, that we suspect may be even of specific importance. In the first 

 place it is larger and more robust, atid has a proportionally smaller base, and 

 rather distinctly tumid, instead of even body plates, while its interradial and 

 anal spaces are not near so deeply excavated between the arm-bases as in the 

 type of quinquelobtM. Its third radial pieces also differ in form, being so narrow 

 in all the raj^s as to let the secondarj' radials come in contact with the first 

 interradial and the second range of anal pieces, instead of extending around so 

 far laterally as to separate these pieces. Its vault is likewise more flattened on 

 top. 



In the typical specimen of D. quinguelobus the spines of the vault have all 

 been accidentallj' removed, but in the form under consideration they seem to 

 have been short and stout, though their entire length is not known, as they 

 were apparently broken off during the life of the animal, since they each have 

 the broken end somewhat rounded and indented in the middle. In size and 

 general appearance it is more like D. Mississippiensis of Roemer, but it differs in 

 having rather more tumid body plates, as well as in the number of the arm- 

 openings, that species having four of these openings to each ray all around. 

 It also has a more protuberant anal opening, and probably had much shorter 

 vault spines. It therefore seems to be somewhat intermediate between the J). 

 Mississippiensis and D. quinqtielohus, but is probably distinct specifically from 

 them both. As we have but a single specimen, however, of it, and the typical 

 specimen of D. quinquelobus for comparison, we prefer to place it, for the present, 

 as a variety of that species, under the name inter rnedius, and if it should here- 

 after be found that the differences we have pointed out are constant, it can take 

 the name bj' which we have proposed to distinguish it as a variety, as a spe- 

 cific name. 



Localiti/ and position. — Upper part of the Burlington division of the Lower 

 Carboniferous series, at Burlington, Iowa. No. 164 of Mr. Wachsmuth's col- 

 lection. 



Genus AMPHORACRINUS, Austin. 



As already stated, this group agrees with Actinocrinus in the number and 

 arrangement of the pieces composing the under side of the body, as well as in 

 having the parts adjacent to the arm-bases forming five projecting lobes, 

 distinctly separated from each other by the anal and interradial sinuses. It 

 differs from them both, however, in the structure of the parts above, as well 

 as in having the body generally more depressed, or even flat below, and the 

 vault proportionally more ventricose ; while its second radial pieces are more 

 generally hexagonal than in Dorycrinus. From the latter it also differs in 

 liaving the opening of the vault more or less proboscidiform,* and placed nearly 

 half way between the middle and the anal side, instead of being a simple gene- 

 rally lateral aperture, penetrating laterally a merely thickened protuberance. 

 Tiie proboscidiform extension of its vault, however, is never so long and slen- 

 der as we usually see in Actinocrinus, and also often differs in being crowned 

 with small spines surrounding the very small terminal aperture, which seems 

 always to open upward. As in Dorycrinus, the*\^ault is generally more or less 

 spiniferous, though the spines are differently arranged, and, as far as yet 

 known, never so extravagantly developed as we sometimes see them in that 



* In all the foreign specimens of the typical species of Amphnracrinus that we have seen, 

 only tiie broken base of this sliort proboscis remains ; and this also seems to have bet n 

 the ease with nearly all those from which the published figures which we have had an 

 opportunity to examine, were drawn Cumberland, however, has given a tigure in his 

 Ueliqiiiaj Conservatte, (pi. C), apparently of the typical species amplwra. with the short 

 oblique proboscis well preserved. This will be seen to differ materially from the merely 

 slightly protuberant thickening in which the opening in Dorycrinus is situated. 



1868.] 




348 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



group. Some of the species are known to have one of the vault pieces over 

 each ray more or less protuberant, and it may be the case that species existed 

 in which those were developed into spines, somewhat as in Dorycrimis, though 

 we are not aware that any such have yet been found. Near the middle of the 

 vault there is also a large tumid piece, sometimes developed into a short spine, 

 while around the anterior side of this, four or five similar pieces are semi- 

 circularly arranged, which also often become well developed sjiines. 

 We have never seen any figures or specimens of the European typical species 

 of Amphoracrimis showing the arms, but there are in Mr. Wachsmuth's collec- 

 tion several beautiful specimens, found at Burlington, agreeing exactly in all 

 other characters (not merely specific) with the types of the geniis, in which the 

 arms are perfectly preserved. In these we observe marked differences, both 

 from Dorycrinus and Actinocrinus. For instance, in Amphoracrmus divergens 

 (= Actinocrinus divergens^ Hall), the arms, although bifurcating so often as to form 

 altogether about fifty-three or more divisions, they are each, as well as each of these 

 divisions, composed of a double series of very short alternating pieces all the 

 way down, even below all the bifurcations to their very bases, with the exception 

 of one to two or three simple brachial pieces, at the origin of each main arm 

 on the last primary or secondary radials. 



The structure of the arms, it will be seen, is the same as in Saccocrinus (an 

 otherwise different type), but widely different from what we see \n Actinocrinus, 

 in which the arms are always composed of a single series of pieces beloio such 

 bifurcations as take place. It is also even more decidedly different from that 

 of Dorycrimis, in which the arms not only never bifurcate in any of the species in 

 which they are known, but are also arranged so that two of them spring 

 directly from each arm-opening without imparting to the brachial piece on 

 which they rest the usual form of an axillary .piece. 



In one species, however, [Actinocrinus spinobrachiatvs, Hall), having appa- 

 rently all the other characters of Amphoracrimis, the arms do not bifurcate 

 after their origin on the axillary secondary radial pieces. It seems, there- 

 fore, probable that there are some species of this group with simple arms, 

 and others that have them more or less frequently bifurcating. The proba- 

 bility is, however, that in all cases when they do bifurcate, that they are 

 equally composed of a double series of small alternating pieces below the bi- 

 furcations as well as above, the same as in the species divergens. Whether we 

 include such species as the spinobrachatus, however, with merely simple arms, 

 composed like the others of a double series of alternating pieces throughout 

 their entire length, as a separate section of Amphoracrinus, or view them as 

 forming a distinct group, they need not for a moment be confounded with 

 Dorycrimis, from which they not only differ in form, surface markings, opening 

 of the vault, &c., but also in never having two arms springing directly from each 

 arm-opening. 



In all the species of Amphoracrinus known to us, either foreign or Ameri- 

 can, it is also worthy of note that the surface of the body plates is never orna- 

 mented with proper radiating costne, such as we often see in Actinocrimis and 

 other allied types, nor yet smooth, or properly tuberculiform, as in Dorycrinus, 

 but always presents a peculiar vermicular style of sculpturing or corrugation 

 difficult to describe, but very characteristic and easily recognized again after 

 being once observed. 



To this group Mr. Wachsmuth has, in MS., correctly referred the following 

 American species, viz : Amphoracrinus divergens, A. planobasalis, A. spino- 

 brachiatus ? and -4. intiatus, described by Prof. Hall, under Actinocrinus; also 

 Actinocrinus quadrispinus, White ; all from the lower division of the Burling- 

 ton beds. 



Amphoracrinus divergens, Hall, (sp.) 



Actinocrimis divergens, Hall, Supp. Iowa Report, p. 36, 1860. 



This species was apparently described by Prof. Hall from imperfect speci- 

 mens, showing only a few of the lower bifurcations of the arms, since he 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 349 



thought it probably had only twenty-two arms, while perfect specimens in 

 Mr. Wachsmuth's collection show that they continued bifurcating farther up, 

 so as to make the whole number about fifty-three or more, as already stated 

 in another place. 



Amongst Mr. Wachsmuth's specimens there is one (No. 13G) with arms, body, 

 vault and proboscis all in a remarkably fine state of preservation, which appears 

 to agree very closely with the A. divergensm most of its characters, and yet dif- 

 fers in several respects. It has very nearly the same number of ultimate 

 divisions in the entire series of arms, though there are differences in the 

 details of their mode of divisions, so that the number of arms in any one of 

 the rays is different from what we see in the corresponding ray of A. diver- 

 gens. In each of its posterior rays there are, as near as can be made out, 

 thirteen to fifteen arms ; in one of the lateral rays and the anterior one, each 

 eight, and the other lateral one eleven or twelve. Its ventral tube (proboscis) 

 is rather stout, about one inch in length, and crowned by some six or seven 

 small unequal spines, subspirally arranged. At the anterior side of the base 

 of the proboscis, and nearly at the centre of the vault, there is a large tumid 

 piece, and on each side of this a spine about three-fourths of an inch in length, 

 directed obliquely outward, upward and forward, and in front of these two 

 other prominent or subspiniform pieces. In the typical A. diverg(ns, these 

 two anterior lateral larger spines each bifurcate, while in the specimen 

 under consideration they are simple. The usual vermicular markings of the 

 body plates in the specimen are well defined, and on the upper anal and vault 

 pieces, as well as on those composing the proboscis, and even on the spines, the 

 whole surface of which is occupied by rather coarse granules. As in the other 

 species of this group, the arms of which are known, they extend at their bases, 

 first horizontally outward, or even a little downward, and then curve upward. 



It is probable that this specimen, with simple instead of bifurcating vault 

 spines, and somewhat differently divided arms, may be specifically distinct from 

 the A. divergens. If so, we would propose to call it Amphoracrinus multira- 

 mosus. 



Genus BATOCRINUS, Casseday. 



From deference to the most generally prevalent opinions of palaeontologists, 

 we have elsewhere included Batocrinus as a subgenus under Actinotrinvs, 

 though we did so with a protest, staling that we were strongly inclined to view 

 it as a distinct genus. Our recent study of Mr. Wachsmuth's extensive collec- 

 tions has still more decidedly impressed us with necessity for separating these 

 groups generically. 



As we have in other places stated the genus Batocrinus presents no essential 

 difference from Actinocrinus in the number and arrangement of the pieces com- 

 posing the walls of the body below the arms, nor in the vault and its elongated 

 central or subcentral tube, though its second radial pieces generally differ 

 in being proportionally shorter and quadrangular, instead of hexagonal or 

 pentagonal. One of the most obvious differences, however, consists in the 

 arrangement of the brachial pieces and adjacent parts, which in Batocrinus 

 form a nearly or quite continuous series all around, instead of being grouped 

 into five protuberant lobes, separated by more or less wide and deep interra- 

 dial and anal sinuses. Again, in Batocrinus the arms never bifurcate as we 

 often see in Actinocrinus. all the divisions of the rays taking place in the walls 

 of the body below the brachial pieces ; while the arms, (which in all cases 

 yet known, with one exception, spring singly from each arm-opening), are 

 generally much shorter in proportion to the length of the proboscis, which 

 often projects from one-third to one-half its entire length, beyond the extreme 

 ends of the arms. Another difference is to be observed in the surface of the body 

 plates, these pieces never being sculptured or ornamented with radiating costse, 

 as is often seen in Actinocrinus, but merely even, more or less tumid, or tuber- 

 culiform. The vault pieces in Batocrinus are also generally tuberculiform, or 



1868.] 




350 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



sometimes produced into short spine -like projections, but even where they 

 assume the character of spines they never have the regularity of arrangement, 

 nor do they ever attain the length we often see in Dori/crinus and Amphora- 

 criiius. The species of Balocrinus also present a much greater diversity of 

 form than we see in Actinocrinus , since we find amongst them every variety of 

 shape, from globose to turbinate, biturbinate, pyriform, discoid, and even in 

 some rare aberrant types apparently belonging here, a conical or stelliform 

 outline. 



The species of this genus may be variously grouped to facilitate their study 

 into sections and subsections, based upon their diflerences of form, and other 

 more or less marked peculiarities, but for the present we merely propose to 

 give a general list of them, and to notice a few types that we have elsewhere 

 included in this group, but which we are now rather inclined to think may 

 yet be found to be entitled to more prominence than has generally been sup- 

 posed. These are the forms for which the names Alloprosallncrinus (= Co- 

 nocrinus of Troost's list) and Eretmocrinus, Lyon and Casseday, were proposed. 



The tirst of these we only know from specimens consisting of the body 

 without the arms or other parts. Its most striking peculiarity, so far as yet 

 known, consists in its remarkable conical form, the body being nearly or quite 

 flat below the arm-bases, which are at first directed out horizontallj' and then 

 curve up ; while the vault, which forms the whole visceral cavity, is produced 

 upward in a conical form, so as to pass rather gradually into the central or 

 sub-central tube, or so-called proboscis. This mere peculiarity of form, how- 

 ever, might be of little importance in a group presenting such great differences 

 in this respect, but we observe that the arm-bases in the specimens of this 

 type we have seen, are usually stouter and composed of rather wide short 

 pieces, more like those composing the arm-bases of Ayarkocrinus. From this 

 fact we suspect that this type may present some marked differences in the 

 nature of its arms from the typical Batocrinus. 



The other group i^Eretmocrinus) is mainly distinguished by a remarkable 

 liattening of the upi)er part of the arms, by which they are made to present a 

 very curious paddle-shaped or spatulate outline. In some instances this 

 character is so strongly marked, that the breadth of the arms is not less than 

 six times as great above as below the middle. Below, the arms are, as in 

 other types, usually rounded and slender, but farther up the flattening com- 

 mences, first, by a slight angularity along each side, with often crenate mar- 

 gins, and increases upward above the middle until they sometimes present a 

 very extraordinary alate appearance. The flattened part, however, is always 

 as distinctly composed of a double series of alternately arranged jjieces as 

 that below, and these pieces are not only extended laterally to give breadth to 

 the arms, but have also often as much as twice the diameter, in the direction 

 of the length of the arms, of those further down. The ambulacral furrows, 

 however, do not increase in size with the breadth of the arms, but even seem 

 to be smaller above than below. We have not teen tentacula attached along 

 the flattened upper part of the arms, but they probably existed there, as we 

 have observed minute indentations at the inner ends of the flattened pieces, 

 apparently for their attachment. The pieces composing the flattened jtart of 

 the arms are thicker at their inner ends and thin off' to their outer extremities, 

 with slight outward curve, so as often to make the dorsal side of the arms not 

 merely flat, but even slightly concave. 



If these were free Crinoids, we might suppose this flattening of the arms a 

 natural provision to adapt them for use as swimming organs, as Comatula is 

 known to employ its arms for that purpose ; but the species presenting this 

 character have the column as well developed as we see in any of the other 

 types, and were evidently attached to one spot during life. It is not improba- 

 ble, however, that this peculiarity of the arms may have been a provision for 

 the protection of the ova in the tentacula (jjinnulae), for, when these broad flat- 

 tened arms were folded together, they must have covered these delicate parts 

 within as if by a coat of mail. 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 351 



The species presenting the character of arms described above, agree so close- 

 ly in other respects with the typical forms of Batocrinus, that it is perhaps not 

 always possible to distinguish them from specimens with the arms removed, 

 though they seem generally to have a smaller number of arms, which are also 

 generally longer in proportion, and a rather more excentrix ventral tube, or 

 proboscis, which appears also to be more liable to be beni to one side, and is 

 often more or less swollen in the middle and narrow below. 



These two groups [Alloprosnllocrinus and Eretmocrinus) should, we think, be 

 at least separated subgenerically from the typical forms of Batocrinus, and may 

 even be found to belong properlj- to distinct genera. We should certainlj' be 

 disposed to view the Eretmocrinus group as a distinct genus, if it were not for 

 the fact that the peculiarity observed in the structure of its arras is subject to 

 considerable variation in the degree of its development in the diflFerent sjjecies, 

 being not very strongly marked in some species, while we also observe some 

 slight trndency to a similar flattening of the upper part of the arms in other 

 types of the Acdnocrmidm, such, for instance, as in some species of Dorycrinuf, 

 and other forms usually referred, in this country, to Aclinocrinus. 



Below we add a list of the species oi Batocrinus^ which, it is worthy of note, 

 are entirely confined to America, and, so far as yet known, nearly, if not en- 

 tirely, to the lower Carboniferous rocks. We give first the names of the spe- 

 cies of true Batocrinus, and under separate divisions those of Eretmocrinus and 

 Alloprosallocrinus. We cannot, however, he positively sure, in all cases, in re- 

 gard to the separation of the species of the subgenus Eretmocrinus from those 

 of true Batocrinus, where specimens showing the arms are unknown. It will 

 also be seen that, even as restricted by the separation, subgenerically, of 

 Eretmocrinus and Alloprosallocrinus, the species referred to Batocrinus are sus- 

 ceptible of division into two sections, that may be entitled to greater promi- 

 nence than is apparent from the specimens yet known. 



1. Batocrinus, Casseday. 



Section (a). — Species with arm-openings directed outward. Arms from 20 

 to 26. Batocrinus icosidactylus and B. irregularis, Casseday, and B. forviosun, B. 

 discoidcus, B. papillatus, B. irqualis, B. doris, B. lecpidus, B. turhinatus, B. inor- 

 natu.o, B. longirostris, B. calyculus, B. biturbinatus, B. sirnilis, B. Ingunculus, B. 

 mundulus, B. clavigerus and B. planodiscus. Hall (sp.), all of which were de- 

 scribed by Prof. Hall under the name Aclinocrinus. Also B. Andrewsiarius and 

 B. subsequalis, described by Prof. McChesney under Actinocrinus. Likewise our 

 B. pistitlus, B. pistilliformis and B. quasillus. Also B. rotundatus [^Actinocrinus , 

 0. and S.), as well as B. Christyi* and B. Komncki,f described by Dr. Shumard 

 under Actinocririus. 



Section (b). — Species with arm-openings directed upward, and arm bases 

 usually more in groups than in Section (a). Arms, so far as known, 20. 



B. Nashvillie [^Actinocr., Troost) : also B. laura and B. sinuosus {=Actino- 

 crimis, Hall), B. xquibrachiatus (== Actinocrinus, McChesney), and our B. aster- 

 iscus and B. trochiscus. 



2. Subgenus Eretmocrinus, Lyon and Casseday. 



Species with arms flattened and alate above, and generally numbering from 

 12 to 20. Proboscis or ventral tube excentric, usually slender below, and 

 sometimes swollen in the middle, and more or less bent to one side. Vault 

 usually dei)ressed. Brachial pieces more or less in groups, separated by inter- 

 radial and anal sinuses. 



Batocrinus [Eretmocrinus) magnificus, Lyon and Casseday, and B. [Eretmocr. ) 



* This is the only species of the whole Batocrinus group known to have two arm.s spring- 

 ing from each arm-opening, and this does not arise from a proper bifurcation, as the two 

 arms rest directly upon the brachial pieces, without imparting to them the character of 

 axillary pieces. 



t This species has its arms slightly flattened, but not expanded above, showing a grada- 

 tion towards Eretmocrinus. 



1868.] 




352 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



calyculoides, B. (Eretmocr.) remibrachiafus,* B. [Eretmocr.) clio, B. (Eretmocr.) 

 maliita and B. [Eretmocr.) c/oelia, Hall (sp.), all described uuder Actinocri7ius by 

 Prof. Hall. Also B. (Eretmocr.) Vernueilianus,f Shumnvd (sp.), described under 

 Actinocrinu.1. 



In all of the above species the arms have been seen, and are knovrn to pos- 

 sess the characters oi Eretmocr inus. The following species are believed to be- 

 long here from the general appearance of the body vault, proboscis, etc., though 

 their arms have not yet been seen. They all certainly belong to Batocrinus, 

 even if not to the group Erelmocrinus, viz. : B. corbulus, B. carica, B. oblatus, 

 B. sinuosus and B. gemmiformis, all described by Prof. Hall under Actinocrinus. 

 Also B. urnxformis and B. Hageri, described by Prof. McChesney under Acti- 

 nocrinu-i. Also our B. dodecadaciylus . 



3. Subgenus Alloprosallocrinus, Casseday and Lyon (=Cowomn2« of Troost's 

 lists). 



Body distinctly conical, being flat below the arm-bases (which are directed 

 ou'ward on a plane with the flattened under side), and produced upward to the 

 central proboscis so as to bring the whole visceral cavity above the arm-bases. 

 Branchial pieces stout. 



B. (Allopros.) conicus, B. (Allopros.) depressus, Lyon and Casseday, described 

 under Alloprosallocrinus. Also our B. (Allopros.) eueonus. 



New Species. 

 Batocrinus qdasillus, M. and W. 



Body rather depressed, wider than high, nearly as prominent above as below 

 the arm-bases ; sides spreading very rapidly from the top of the first radials to 

 the brachial pieces, which are in close contact all around, so as entirely to 

 isolate the anal and interradial pieces from the vault. Base comparatively rather 

 broad, being nearly three times as wide as high, truncated and rather deeply 

 excavated below, so as to overhang the end of the column ; somewhat spreading 

 below, with broad shallow notches at the sutures. First radials nearly twice as 

 wide as high, two heptagonal and three hexagonal, and, like all of the other 

 body plates (excepting the second radials), moderately tumid. Second radials 

 generally very short, and sometimes, in part, merely transversely linear, or 

 even entirely obsolete, all quadrangular, and flat on the outer side. Third ra- 

 dials small, generally pentagonal, and in all but the two posterior rays sup- 

 porting on each of its superior sloping sides one, or sometimes two, secondary 

 radials, the last of which (where there are more than one) is an axillary piece, 

 and bears, in direct succession on each of its superior sloping sides, two bra- 

 chial pieces, thus making four arms to each of these rays. In each of the pos- 

 terior rays, however, there are two other bifurcations, that make six arm- open- 

 ings to each of these rays, or twenty-four to the entire series. First anal plate 

 of much the same size and form as the first radials, and supporting, in an 

 arching series above, three smaller pieces in the second range, while above the 

 latter, one, or perhaps sometimes two smaller pieces connect with the brachials 

 above. First interradials about two-thirds as large as the first radials, and 

 each supporting a smaller piece extending up to the brachials above. Vault 

 composed of tumid, or sometimes rather obtuselj- pointed pieces, and provided 

 with a subcentral proboscis, which is usually about as broad below as the 

 base. 



Height of the largest specimen to top of vault, about 0-70 inch ; greatest 

 breadth (which is at the arm-bases), 0-80 inch ; breadth of base, 0-35 inch. 



This species seems to be related io owt B. pistillus,hvLi maybe easily dis- 



* Prof. Hall mentioned, in describing this species, that it has the characters of Eretmo- 

 crinus. 



t This species has the arms less distinctly alate than the others, the transition from Ba- 

 tocrinui to Eretmocrinus being through this and the species Konincki. 



[Dec 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 353 



tinguished by its much more depressed form, particularly below the arm-open- 

 ings, caused by its much shorter basals, and first and second radial pieces. Its 

 base also differs in being much more excavated, and not near so expanded be- 

 low, while its brachial pieces are proportionally stouter, and more crowded. 

 Although the whole number of arm-openings is the same in these two forms, 



4 



this arrangement is different, the formula of B. pistillus being 5-0 ::=24, and 



0—5 



that of the form under consideration 4-— 1 = 24. 



Locality and position. — Lower division of Burlington beds of Lower Carbon- 

 iferous at Burlington, Iowa. No. 14 of Mr. Wachsmuth's collection. 



Batocuinus Cassedayanus, M. and W. 



Body rather broad subturbinate below, or with the vault subglobose, being 

 a little larger below than above the arm-bases. Base short, or about four times 

 as wide as high, a little thickened, and slightly overhanging the end of the 

 column, and more or less notched at the sutures, so as to present a somewhat 

 trilobate appearance. First radial pieces of moderate size, and, like all of the 

 other body plates, rather distinctly tumid, wider than long, two hexagonal and 

 three heptagonal. Second radials about half as large as the first, nearly twice 

 as wide as high, normally quadrangular, but some of them occasionally with 

 one or both of the superior lateral angles a little truncated, so as to present an 

 irregular pentagonal or hexagonal outline. Third radials sometimes a little 

 smaller, and in other rays a little larger, than the second; all pentagonal, and 

 (excepting in the anterior and one of the anterior lateral rays of the typical 

 specimen) each supporting on each of its superior sloping sides, in direct suc- 

 cession, two secondary radials, generally of near its own size, the upper ones 

 of which are also axillary pieces, and bear on each of their superior sloping 

 sides two brachial pieces in direct succession (the last of which is generally 

 larger than the first), thus making four arms to each of these rays. In the an- 

 terior ray, however, the third radial merely bears on each side above, three 

 brachial pieces in direct succession, and the same is also the case on one side 

 of one of the anterior lateral rays, thus only giving origin to two arm-openings 

 in the first, and three in the latter, making seventeen arm-openings to the en- 

 tire series. First anal of the same size and form as the first radials, excepting 

 that it is proportionally a little longer ; above this there are three smaller 

 pieces in the second range, three in the third, and two or three in the fourth. 

 First interradials of the same size as the second anals, hexagonal or heptago- 

 nal in form, and supporting two smaller pieces in the third range, with two to 

 three or four still smaller pieces above, the upper one of which, like that of 

 the anal series, separates the brachial pieces a little, so as to form a small sinus 

 between the arm bases belonging to each ray. 



Vault slightly ventricose, composed of very irregular, unequal, merely tumid 

 pieces, and j)rovided with a rather stout, nearly central proboscis, which is in- 

 clined a little forward in the typical specimen. 



The specific name is given in honor of Mr. S. A. Casseday, deceased, the 

 author of the genus Batocrinus. 



Height of body to arm-bases, 0-70 inch ; do. to base of proboscis, l-OT inch ; 

 greatest breadth (at arm-bases), 1-20 inch. 



This species is perhaps most nearly allied to B. longirostris, Hall (sp.), and 

 if we suppose the presence of only three arm-openings in one of its anterior 

 lateral rays to be abnormal, which is almost certainly the case, it would pre- 

 sent no difference in its arm-formula, nor any marked difference in the details 

 of its structure, excepting in the proportional sizes of certain plates. This 

 latter character, however, imparts a material difference to the whole form of 

 the body, — a difference, indeed, that is so striking as to be apparent at a glance. 

 For instance, in B. longirostris the first and second primary radials and first 

 anal, as well as the first interradial pieces, are all proportionally so much 



1868.] 




854 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



larger (y)articulaily longer) as to make the body below the arms always dis- 

 tinctly longer and proportionally narrower. Another marked difference con- 

 sists in the convexity of the body plates, those of longirostris being only slight- 

 ly and evenly convex, while in the form under consideration they are decidedly 

 tumid, and sometimes even angular. The arm-ljases of the loriffiroslris are also 

 more distinctly separated by sinuses, and less robust. In short, the characters 

 mentioned in the species longirosiris impart to it a peculiar and vei'y character- 

 istic neatness and symmetry of appearance not seen in the form here described. 



In form and general appearance our species resembles specimens sometimes 

 supposed to be a broader and more robust variety of ^. subiequaUs, McChesney 

 (sp.), but in that there are four arms to each ray, and the brachial pieces are 

 in close contact all around, while its body plates are not merely tumid, but 

 decidedly tnberculiform and projecting. 



Locality and position. — Lower Burlington beds of the Lower Carboniferous, at 

 Burlington, Iowa. No. 13 of Mr. Wachsmuth's collection. 



Batocrinus trochiscus, M. and W. 



Body broad discoidal or wheel-shaped, being very narrow at the base and 

 widening gradually to the top of the first radials, thence spreading very rapidly 

 to the brachial pieces, which are large and nearly in contact all around, or but 

 slightly separated by small sinuses over the anal, interradial and axillary 

 spaces. Vault flat, or a little concave from the peripherj^ about half-way in 

 toward the middle, thence rising moderately to the subcentral proboscis; com- 

 posed of unequal pieces, the larger of which are rather tumid and arranged in 

 radiating rows coincident with the raj's and their division below, while the 

 smaller pieces between are depressed so as to form concavities between the 

 larger. 



Base narrow, truncated, but not spreading or provided with a distinct rim 

 below, wider than high, and widening very gradually upward. First radial 

 pieces about of the size of the basal, but proportionally longer, though they are 

 generallj' wider than long, two of them heptagonal and three hexagonal. 

 Second radial pieces comparatively very small, and all wider than long, or 

 transversely oblong, being, as usual in this group, regularly quadrangular. 

 Third radial pieces about twice as large as the second, wider than long, and 

 all pentagonal, excepting those of the two posterior rays, one of which is 

 hexagonal and one heptagonal, in the specimen from which the description is 

 drawn up ; each supporting on each of its superior sloping sides, in direct suc- 

 cession, two secondary radials nearly or quite as large as the third primary 

 radials themselves, while each of the upper of these secondary radials is an 

 axillary piece, supporting on each of its sloping sides, in direct succession, two 

 large brachial pieces, thus making four arm-openings to each ray all around, 

 or twenty in the entire series. First anal piece about of the size of the smaller 

 first radials, longer than wide, and heptagonal in form; above this there are in 

 the second range three smaller hexagonal pieces, and, arching over the latter, 

 four in the fourth range, with a small wedge-formed piece succeeding the latter 

 above, though it is scarcely large enough to separate the brachial pieces over 

 the anal area. First interradial pieces nearly as large as the first radials, and 

 all irregularly nine-sided ; above this there are two smaller pieces in the second 

 range, two, or sometimes only one, in the third, and above this one or two 

 succeeding each other in a direct line, the last one being usually narrow, and 

 partly or entirely wedged in between the brachial pieces so as, in some cases, 

 to separate them a little. Between the first divisions of each ray on the third 

 radials there are usually one or two interaxillary pieces, the first resting upon 

 two short sloping upper sides of the first secondarj^ radials, and supjioi-ting the 

 second, which sometimes separates the brachial pieces a little, while in other 

 instances it is so narrow and short as to allow them to come in contact over 

 it, (Arms and columa unknown.) 



[Dec- 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 355 



The surface seems to be nearly smooth, or finely granular, and the body 

 plates are nearly even, excepting the secondary radlals, which, M'ith the brachial 

 pieces, are sometimes a little tumid, so as to project slightly beyond the plane 

 of the interradial and iuteraxillary areas, which consequently have a somewhat 

 sunken appearance. 



Height of body to arm-openings, 1 inch ; breadth, 2-10 inches. 



This fine species seems to be most nearly related to B. planodiscus, Hall (sp.), 

 from the Keokuk beds, with which it agrees nearly in form and general appear- 

 ance. It ditfers very materially in structure, however, since the rays in that 

 species bifurcate so as to make eight arm-openings to each ray, or forty to the 

 whole series, being just double the number seen in our species. The planodu- 

 cus also appears to have the arm-openings directed outward, while the species 

 under consideration belongs apparently to the section of this genus with these 

 openings directed upward. 



It is an interesting fact, to which our attention has been called by Mr. 

 Wachsmuth, that not only this species, but several others only found in the 

 very highest part of the Upper Burlington formation, are more nearly allied to 

 species ibund in the Keokuk beds than to any forms iu the Lower Burlington 

 beds. 



Locality and position. — Upper bed Burlington division of the Lower Carbon- 

 iferous at Burlington, Iowa. No. 27 of Mr. Wachsmuth's collection. 



BaTOCBINDS (ErETMOCRINUS ?) NEGLECTUS. 



Body small, inversely campanulate below the arms, and rather ventricose 

 above; the sides expanding gradually from the base to the third radials, and 

 theuce curving out rapidly to the outer edges of the brachial pieces, which 

 are slightly grouped, but nearly or quite in contact all around. Base about 

 three times as wide as high, truncated and concave below, but not thickened 

 or expanded. First radials comparatively large, generally wider than long, 

 and, as usual, two heptagonal and three hexagonal ; all like the other body 

 plates convex, but not properly tumid Second radials much smaller than the 

 first, quadrangular and nearly twice as wide as long. Third radials as long as 

 the second, or slightly larger, wider than long, and all normally pentagonal ; 

 each supporting on each of its superior sloping sides a secondary radial, 

 which in its turn bears on each side above two brachial pieces in direct succes- 

 sion, thus making four arm-openings to each ray, or twenty to the entire series. 

 In one specimen, however, agreeing exactly in other respects, the third radials 

 in the anterior and one in the posterior rays is immediately succeeded by 

 brachial pieces without any further bifurcations, so as to give origin to only 

 two arms to each of these rays ; but this is almost certainly an individual 

 abnormal development. 



First anal plate a little longer, but not otherwise differing from the first 

 radials ; above this there are three smaller pieces iu the next range, and some- 

 times one or two still smaller ones in the third range. Interradial pieces one 

 to three in each space, the first being one-third to one-half as large as the 

 first radials, seven to nine sided, and usually supporting one or two smaller 

 pieces in the second range above. 



Vault convex, and composed of very unequal, irregular, moderately convex 

 plates, provided with a tube or proboscis of moderate thickness, and placed 

 generally about half way between the middle and the anal side. (Column 

 and arras unknown.) 



Height to base of proboscis, about 0-58 inch ; do. to arm-openings, C-33 

 inch ; breadth, 0-55 inch. The specimen presenting the irregularity mentioned 

 iu the arrangement of the arms, is proportionally wider than that from which 

 the above measurements were taken. 



This little species is apparently nearer B. clio, Hall, (sp.), than to any other 

 yet described. Its base, however, is much less thickened and expanded than 

 "in that species, and its body plates more even and smoother ; while its brachial 



1868.] 




356 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



])ieces are less prominent, so as to 'give its body a less spreading appearance. 

 Judging from the description, the B. laura, Hall, (sp.), would seem to be 

 somewhat like our species, but that form must be more depressed and pro- 

 portionally wider, and is also said to have the arm-openings directed upward, 

 which would even place it in a different section of the genus. 



We place this species provisionally in the Erelmocrinus group, from its gene- 

 ral appearance, as we have not seen any specimens showing the arms. 



Locality and position. Lower division, Burlington group, of Lower Carboni- 

 ferous, at Burlington, Iowa. No. 14 of Mr. Wachsmuth's collection. 



Genus PENTREMITES, Say. 

 Pentremites (Troostocrinus?) Woodmani, M. and W. 



Body attaining a large size, pyramidal-subovate,as seen in aside view, being 

 broad below, and produced and gradually narrowing upward ; strongly pent- 

 agonal as seen from above and below, in consequence of the projecting and 

 actually cariuated character of the radial pieces. Base strong, from two and 

 a half to three times as wide as high, trilobate in general outline below, and 

 very broadly and profoundly excavated along the three sutures, (the excava- 

 tions being continued out beyond the base into the lower ends of three of the 

 radial pieces) ; two of them pentagonal and tricarinate, and one quadrangular 

 and bicarinate, the carinte projecting considerably below the deeply sunken 

 facet for the attachment of the column, so that when placed erect on a level 

 surface the body stands upon these carinas, like a tripod upon its legs. Radial 

 pieces long and narrow, or about three times as long as wide, and gradually 

 tapering upward ; all extremely prominent along the middle and sloping strongly 

 inwards laterally, very sharply carinate below the pseudo-ambulacral areas. 

 Summit openings very small and closely approximated. Interradials very 

 small, or only about one-tenth as long as the radials. Pseudo-ambulacral 

 areas remarkably narrow or sublinear, and deeply sunken, extending down 

 rather more than half the entire length of the body, or about two-thirds the 

 length of the radial pieces; pore pieces minute, slightly oblique, and number- 

 ing about 100 to each side of each area, the two rows of each area being sepa- 

 rated by a deep mesial furrow, along which the inner ends of the pore pieces 

 are minutely crenale, lanceolate and supplementary pore-pieces unknown. 

 Surface marked with microscopic lines, as fine, regular, and crowded, as if 

 made by an engraver's ruling machine. 



Height, 2-25 inches; breadth, 1 64 inches. Breadth of base, 1-14 inches; 

 height of do., 050 inch ; depth of excavations along the sutures of base, 0-20 

 inch ; breadth of do. from 0-45 to 0-56 inch. Length of pseudo-ambulacral 

 areas, 1-45 inch ; breadth of do., 0-08 inch. 



This extraordinary form differs so widely from all other known species, as 

 to render a comparison of its specific characters with any of those hitherto 

 described entirely unnecessary. It seems to be related to a group of species 

 characterized by a triangular base, and very narrow pseudo-ambulacral areas, 

 for which Dr. Shumard has proposed the name Troostocrinus. Still it presents 

 some rather strongly marked differences from that group, the species of which 

 have the body narrow, fusiform, and more or less elongate and tapering below, 

 with the triangular base merely flattened on each of the three sides. In our 

 type however, the body is broadest below, while the base is comparatively very 

 short and wide, and has the three spaces corresponding to the flattened sides 

 of the typical species of Troostocrinus so very profoundly and broadly exca- 

 vated, as to impart a very remarkable appearance to the lower part of the fossil. 

 Should it be thought desirable to designate this type by a distinct subgeneric 

 name, it might be called Tricodocrinus, in allusion to the three deep excava- 

 tions of the base. 



The specific name of this form is given in honor of Mr. 11. T. Woodman, of 

 Dubuque, Iowa, to whom we are indebted for the use of the only specimen 

 we have seen. 



Locality and position. — Salem, Indiana, Lower Carboniferous, Keokuk Group ? 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 357 



Genus AGELACRINITBS, Vaiuixem. 

 Agelacrinitks (Lepidodiscus) squamoscs, M. and W. 



Depressed discoidal ; outline circular, or somewhat oval. Rajs slender, 

 long, and strongly curved as they radiate from the middle toward the periph- 

 ery, around which they are each extended for some little distance ; all sinis- 

 tral excepting the right posterior one, which curves to the left, with its outer 

 half extending around within that of the next one on the left, near which it 

 terminates at the so-called ovarian protubrance ; each composed of two zigzag 

 rows of very small pieces, with some irregular ones apparently not belonging 

 properly to either row. Disc composed of large, thin, irregular, strongly 

 squamose or imbricating plates, the imbrication beinginward from the periph- 

 ery, that is, the inner edge of each plate laps upon the outer edge of the next 

 within. Ovarian? pyramid situated near the left outer margin of the posterior 

 iaterbrachial space, and closed by ten pieces, apparently imbricating laterally 

 and forming a depressed cone, around the base of which there are numerous 

 small, short, but comparatively wide imbricating disc plates. Surface minutely 

 granular. 



Greater diameter of an apparently distorted specimen, 1-70 inch. 



The only specimen of this species we have seen is somewhat crushed and 

 distorted, so that it is rather difficult to make out the exact details of the 

 structure of the rays, though they are apparently not provided with open 

 ambulacral furrows, the rows of minute plates on each side, apparently closing 

 up and interlocking. There appear, however, to be pores arranged along 

 them in a zigzag row between the pieces. The body plates around the mar- 

 gin are much wider than high, and strongly imbricating upward. No cen- 

 tral opening is visible. 



On comparing this species with A. Kashaskiensis, Hall (the only other 

 known Carboniferous species), the type of which is now before us, we find 

 that our species differs in the important character of having its disc plates 

 all very distinctly imbricating, while those of Prof. Hall's species show no 

 tendency to imbricate, the whole surface of each being clearly exposed, their 

 straight edges being merely joined together like those of a true crinoid. 

 From Prof. Hall's description, it might also be supposed that this species 

 tlitfers in the number of its rays, as he described it as having six rays. 

 A careful examination, however, of the typical specimen has clearly satisfied 

 us that this is certainly not the case, as it has only five, the usual number, 

 &i represented in the figure. It is the incurved extremity of the dextral 

 right posterior ray, that has been mistaken for a sixth ray. The specimen 

 is somewhat crushed and distorted, but by carefully cleaning it and remov- 

 ing some adhering portions of the matrix, this ray can be traced straight 

 out to the periphery, where it curves abruptly around and extends inward to 

 near the middle of the posterior interbrachial space, where it terminates at a 

 point near which was doubtless situated the so-called ovarian pyramid ; 

 though the specimen is too much crushed there to show the latter. 



It is worthy of note that our species, although agreeing with most of 

 these that have been referred to AgeLacrhiUes* in the imbricating character 

 of its disc plates, as well as in the direction of the curvature of its rays, 

 still differs from A. BuinUionensis, of Vanuxen, the type of the genus in 

 both of these characters. Vanuxem gives no description, but judging from 

 his figure, (Geol. Report Third Dist. N. Y., p. 306) one would naturally sup- 



* By pome oversight, Prof. Pietet figures, on pi. xcix, fig. 25, of his valuable Trait de 

 Palffiont., a true Agelaariniles, and probably one of the Cincinnati species, under the name 

 Hemici/ftiles parasUica, Hall, a very different fossil from the Niagara group. He also alludes 

 to Vanu.xem's Agekicrinites HamiUonensis in the text as a Silurian species, but it is a Ham- 

 ilton group (Devonian^ fossil. Dujardin and Hupe (Hist. Nat. Echinod. pi. 5, fig. 8) copy Pie- 

 tet's figu'-e under the nume Arjdacrinites parasitica, as an illustration of Agelacrinites, saying 

 Hemicystites ought not to be separated from AgHncrimtes. The real Henua/slites parasit.cu. 

 however, althougli related to AgfiacriniUs, differs in several important cfiaracters. 



1868.] 




358 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



])Ose the difc plates of his species to have the usual imbricating arrange- 

 ment. Prof. Hall, however, has recently described it in detail, (Twentieth 

 Report Regents Univ. N. Y. on State Cab. Nat. Hist. p. 299, 1868), and dis- 

 tinctly states that its interbrachial or disc plates are not imbricating, as in 

 other species. He also mentions the fact that this typical species differs 

 from others in having its anterior and right anterior and posterior lateral 

 rays sinstral, and its left anterior and posterior-lateral rays curved to the 

 left, as shown in Vanu.Kem's figure. It therefore certainly seems to us doubt- 

 ful whether species differing in two such important characters as these are 

 strictly congeneric. If they are not, then a new generic name should be 

 applied to our species, and the others agreeing with it in these characters ; 

 ia which case we would propose to designate this group of species under 

 the name Lepidodiscus [KiTri;, a scale, and Sia-noc, a quoit). At least we should 

 think they ought to be separated subgenerically. 



Locality and position. Crawfordsville, Indiana. Keokuk beds of Lower 

 Carboniferous. 



ECHINOIDEA. 



Genus OLIGOPORUS, Meek and Worthen. 

 Oligoporus nobilis, M. and W. 



Large, globose, composed of very thick plates. Ambulacra nearly flat, or 

 slightly convex, and without proper furrows, narrow lanceolate in outline, 

 or only about two- thirds as wide as the interambulacral areas ; pore pieces 

 comparatively small, wider than high, those of the two outer rows rather 

 more irregular in size, and some of them a little larger than any of those of 

 the two inner rows ; pores two to each piece, forming four double rows, 

 those of the two outer ranges of pieces being placed near their inner ends, 

 and those of the inner ranges near their outer ends. Interambulacral areas 

 comparatively large, moderately convex, and composed of five rows of large 

 plates, all of which extend to the disc above, while the middle one ends within 

 about 0-65 inch of the oral opening below. Vent and apical disc much as 

 in Mdonites multipara Surface of all the plates, both ambulacral and inter- 

 ambulacral, ornamented with coarse granules, separated by spaces generally 

 a little wider than their own breadth, with sometimes a few smaller ones 

 between. Of these granules, about 40 to 60 may be counted on each of 

 the larger interambulacral plates. 



Height and breadth, about 3-75 inch ; breadth of ambulacral spaces, 0-60 

 inch ; do. of interambulacral areas, 1-06 inch. Height of largest interam- 

 bulacral plates, 0-26 inch ; breadth of do., 0-40 inch; thickness of do., 0-25 

 inch. 



The only specimen of this fine species yet known to us is mainly a silicious 

 cast of the interior. The connection of the plates, however, are so distinctly de- 

 fined by sharply raised lines formed by the silicious matter deposited in the 

 sutures between all of the pieces before they were dissolved, that the entire 

 structure can be made out as well as if the plates themselves had been preserved. 

 A few of the plates, however, or rather casts of their external surface, remain 

 so as to show the surface granules as well as the thickness of the plates them- 

 selves. 



The apical disc seems to be very similar, as already stated, to that of Meloni- 

 ies rnultipora, — the arrangement and comparative sizes, as well as form of the 

 ocular and genital plates, being much the same. In two of the latter, five 

 pores may be counted in each, while one other also shows obscure indications 

 of five pores and the other two had four each, as near as can be made out from 

 the little projecting points representing them in the cast. No satisfactory in- 

 dications of pores, however, are to be seen in the ocular pieces. 



Although the ambulacral areas are not properly furrowed, as in 0. Dance 

 and Mdonites rnultipora, they are slightly depressed below the most convex cen- 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 359 



tral region of the interambulacral areas. The depression, however, also in- 

 cludes the two marginal rows of each interambulacral series. There is like- 

 wise a faint narrow, almost linear, impression on the internal cast, extending 

 trom the apical disc about halfway down the middle row of plates in each in- 

 terambulacral field. 



This form can be at once distinguished from 0. Danx, the only other known 

 s[>ecies of this type, by its proportionally much larger and less numerous in- 

 terambulacral plates, of which there are only_^'y« instead of eight or nine rows 

 to each area. Its arabulacral areas are also proportionally narrower, and, as 

 already stated, differ in not being furrowed along each side, with a ridge along 

 the middle. 



As we have elsewhere suggested, the group Oligoporus seems to be exactly 

 intermediate in its characters between Melonites, Owen and Norwood, and Fa- 

 ln'.chinus, (Scouler) JlcUoy. That is, it differs from Falsechinus in having four 

 rows of arabulacral pieces and four double rows of pores, instead of livo of each, 

 as well as in having the arabulacral areas more or less sunken below the in- 

 terambulacral fields. In the last character it agrees more nearly with Meloni- 

 Us, from which, however, it differs widely in having on\\ four rows of arabula- 

 cral pieces and/o?<r double rows of pores instead of ten of each to each area. 

 In the nature of its apical disc the species under consideration shows that in 

 this type it agrees well in its general characters with Melonites. "We also know, 

 from a crushed specimen of Oligoporus Daniv, that the species of this group 

 have the jaws very like those of Melonites. The question may therefore arise 

 whether or not these differences in the number of pieces and pores of the ambu- 

 lacra are of generic importance, and whether we ought not to regard them as 

 only subgeneric and call our species Melonites [Oligoporus) nobilis. On the 

 same grounds, however, we would have as good reason to regard both Oligopo- 

 rus and Melonites as mere sections or subgenera of Faliechinus. We cannot^ 

 however, believe so important and constant a difference of less than generic 

 value, no gradations being yet known in this character between Oligoporus 

 and Melonites ou the one hand, or between the former and Faluchinus on the 

 other. It is true we yet only know one species of Melonites, but we now know 

 two well marked species of Oligoporus, while there are eight or nine known dis- 

 tinct species of Falsechinus, all of which latter agree in having but two rows of 

 arabulacral pieces to each area. 



At the time we proposed the name Oligoporus we were not aware that Prof. 

 Desor had designated a section (not a genus) of the family Cidaridx by the 

 name Olu/opores. In case this should be regarded as a serious objection to 

 our name Oligoporus we suggested, in the second volume of the Illinois Geolo- 

 gical Reports, the name Mehnopsis for this group instead ; and if it should be 

 adopted, the species here described would have to be called Melonopsis nobilis. 

 The name Oligopores, however, from its different termination, we should think 

 sutficienily distinct. 



Locality and position. — Calhoun County, Illinois, from the Burlington divi- 

 sion of the Lower Carboniferous series. 



Description of Seven New Species of AMERICAN BIRDS from various locali- 

 ties, with a note on Zonotrichia melanotis. 



BY GEO. N. LAWRENCE. 



1. DeNDRCECA CAPITALI.S. 



Male. Front and crown of a deep rich reddish brown ; back and smaller 

 wing coverts yellowish olive-green, becoming more yellow on the rump ; 

 central tail feathers and the outer webs of the others dark olive-brown, edged 

 the color of the back, the inner webs of all except the central tail feathers 

 are yellow; the quill feathers and the larger wing coverts are blackish brown, 

 the primaries and secondaries with margins the color of the back, the terti- 



1868.] 




360 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



aries and wing coverts edged with yellow ; under lining of wings deep 

 yellow ; under plumage deep golden yellow, with conspicuous reddish brown 

 stripes on the breast and sides ; bill blackish brown, the under mandible 

 paler below ; feet light brown. 



Second, third and fourth quills equal and longest, first intermediate 

 between fourth and fifth. 



Length 4J in. ; wing 2\-. ; tail 2 l-16th ; bill M6ths ; tarsi |. 



The female differs in wanting the brown cap, having in place of it a slight 

 wash of that color, and in there being only a few faint stripes on the breast. 



Habitat. — Barbadoes. Types in my collection, obtained by Mr. A. H Alex- 

 ander, of West Hoboken, N. J., who informed me that it is an abundant species 

 aud familiar in its habits. 



Remarks. This beautiful species needs comparison only with D. petechia, 

 and the bird from St. Thomas and St. Croix, referred to D. ruficapilla, Gm., 

 by Prof. Baird, with a ?, see Rev. Am. Birds, pp. 199 and 201 ; it is smaller 

 than either, and they do not agree in the wing formula; the present species 

 appears to have a greater extent of yellow in the tail feathers. 



It is the same species as a specimen spoken of by Prof. Baird (Rev. Am, 

 Birds, p. 202) but not named, which was brought from Barbadoes in alcohol 

 by Prof. Gill. 



Apart from its smaller size, its clearly defined and deeply colored crown 

 will distinguish it from all others. 



2. TaCHYPHONUS ATRICAPILLOS. 



Front, entire crown and occiput black, sides of the head and the hind neck 

 grayish-black ; back and smaller wing coverts dark olive-green, the rump 

 olive, tinged with ferruginous ; tail brownish-black boi'dered with greenish- 

 olive ; middle and larger wing coverts black, with greenish olive margins ; 

 quills black, the primaries narrowly edged on the outer webs with greenish 

 yellow, the secondaries with olive green; under wing coverts pale yellow ; 

 throat of a light brown intermixed with gray, and tinged with rufous ; lower 

 part of the neck and sides of the breast olive-green washed with ferruginous ; 

 breast and abdomen bright brownish ferruginous, becoming yellowish on the 

 middle of the belly ; under tail coverts black bordered with ferruginous ; 

 bill black, the under mandible whitish at base ; tarsi and toes black. 



Length (skin) 5 in. ; wing 2 J ; tail 2\ ; bill \ ; tarsi f . 



Habitat.— The Island of Trinidad. 



Type in my collection ; it was killed at Trinidad in the early part of the 

 present year by Mr. A. H. Alexander, from whom I procured it. A person 

 who accompanied him at the time, and was familiar with the birds of the 

 Island, said it was a species he had never noticed before. 



Remarks. — This does not resemble in plumage any other member of the 

 genus, and I think is probably a male ; the black crown and distinctly colored 

 under plumage seem to preclude the probability of its being a female. 



3. QUISCALUS FORTIROSTRIS. 



Male. Black, with purplish steel blue lustre, uniform throughout the 

 body, not changeable as in most other species; wings and tail greenish, bill 

 and feet black. 



Second quill longest, first between third and fourth ; tail graduated, lateral 

 feather one inch shorter than middle feathers ; bill very strong, culmen reg- 

 ularly curved throughout, commissure sinuated. 



Length 9 in. ; wing 4^ ; tail 4^; bill from front 1 l-16th ; height of bill at 

 base 7-16ths ; tarsi 1 3-16ths. 



The female is smaller, and the plumage, instead of being bluish, has a 

 brownish cast of color. 



Length 8 in. ; wing 3| ; tail 3^ ; bill 15-16ths ; tarsi 1 1-I6lh3. 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 361 



Habitat. — Barbadoes. Types in my collection, obtained from Mr. A. H. 

 Alexander, by whom they were killed on that Island. 



Remarks. — This very distinct species comes nearest to Q. lugtibri^, Sw., in 

 its dimensions, but is rather smaller ; that species is more violaceous in liis're, 

 with longer and stouter legs, also a longer, straighter and more feeble bill, 

 with the commissure straight; the bill of the new species is comparatively 

 large, at the base being wider and fully one-third higher than that of Q. Iwjh- 

 bris. 



4. Thamnophilps virgatus. 



Entire head, hind neck and all of the under plumage, of a grayish fuligi- 

 nous color, blacker on the head and grayer below, with a broad stripe of pale 

 ochreous white down the centre of each fea'her ; these are clearer or nearly 

 white on the head, and duller on the abdomen ; back, t»il and exposed por- 

 tion of the, wings cinnamon red ; the inner webs of the quill feathers liver 

 brown ; the under wing coverts and inner margins of quills pale cinnamon ; 

 under tail coverts pale rufous ; upper mandible black, the under whitish 

 horn color ; tarsi and toes black, claws whitish. 



Length about 6 in. ; wing 3 ; tail 2|- ; bill about | ; tarsi 1 . 



Habitat. — New Granada, Turbo. Collected by Lt. Michler. Type in Mus. 

 Acad, of Nat. Sciences, Philadelphia. 



Remarks. — In distribution of colors this species much resembles T. palliatua, 

 but it is smaller and differs notably in the white markings throughout, being 

 longitudinal; the crown in palliatus is immaculate, on which in the present 

 species the stripes are strongly dehned ; the red coloring is paler and duller 

 than that of T. palliatus. 



From analogy I judge it to be a male, as the female of T. palliatus has a 

 rufous crown. 



The bill is injured by shot, the end being deficient; at first I was puzzled 

 to know where to place it, but feel confident it is assigned its true poiitioa. 



Analytical table of th? Species of BARIDITI3 inhabiting- the United States.- 

 BY JOHN L. LE CONTE, M.D. 



According to the form of the antennae the species before me may be 

 divided into three principal groups, of which the second contains all the 

 strongly pubescent species. The first group is the most numerous, and may 

 again be subdivided by the presence or absence of the apical constriction of 

 the prothorax. We will thus have the following scheme of arrangement. 



A. Antenn;e thick; 2d and .3d joints of funiculus equal. 



a. Body nearly glabrous. Thorax not constricted near the apex. Sp. 1 — 8. 



b. Body nearly glabrous. Thorax constricted near the apex. Sp. 9 — 22. 



c. Body densely pubescent ; thorax constricted near the apex. Sp. 23 — 25. 



B. Antenuic slender ; 2d point of funiculus longer than the 3d. Sp 26 — 28. 



A— a. 



Intervals of elytra coarsely and irregularly punctured. 1. 



'• '■ with single rows of usually well marked punctures. 3. 



" " with very fine inconspicuous punctures. 4. 



1. Color black. 2. 



Color bronze-black ; prothorax longer than wide, gradually narrowed from 

 base, rounded near the apex ; dors il carina very indistinct ; beak stout, curve<l, 

 moderately long, punctured. Long. 4-5 mm. Middle States, l.subasneus. 

 2. More shining ; prothorax not longer than wide, very slightly nirrowad 

 from base, much rounded near the apex ; dorsal carina not apparent ; be.ik 

 stout, short, curved, punctured. Long 4-5 mm. Kansas (one s|)eciinen). 



2. quadratus. 



1868.] 24 




362 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Similar to the last in size, form and sculpture, but the dorsal carina of the 

 prothorax is well marked. Long 4-5 mm. Texas, Illinois. (Two speci- 

 mens) , 3. carinulatus L(c. 



Less shining; punctures of elytra soaaller and closer; prothorax more 

 equally rounded on the sides, not broader than long, without dorsal carina ; 

 beak moderately long, stout, curved, punctured. Long. 4-5 mm. Kansas. 

 (2 specimens) 4. transversus Sny. 



3. Black bronzed, shining ; prothorax not longer than wide, very slightly 

 narrowed from the base, much rounded near the tip, dorsal carina not obvi- 

 ous. (Resembles B. subaeneus, but differs by the more full thorax, rather 

 stouter form, and less irregular interstitial punctures of the elytra.) Long. 

 4 — 4-5 mm. Middle and Southern States 5. tumescens. 



Smaller, black bronzed, shining ; prothorax not longer than wide, more 

 obliquely narrowed at tip and less rounded, dorsal carina not obvious ; elytral 

 striae less strongly punctured than in B. tumescens; intervals with rows 

 of well marked or very fine punctures. Long. 3 mm 6. confinis. 



Black bronzed, very shining, prothorax more sparsely punctured, slightly 

 narrowed from the base, broadly and obliquely rounded near the tip ; elytra 

 more finely and less deeply striate, intervals wider, nearly smooth. Long. 



2-5— 3 mm. Louisiana 6. a e r e u s iScA. 



4. Bluish black, shining ; prothorax not longer than wide, obliquely narrowed 

 from the base, broadly rounded near the tip, punctures more distant than 

 usual, dorsal carina not obvious ; elytral striae scarcely perceptibly punctured, 

 interstices nearly smooth, or with rows of very small punctures. Long. 

 4-25-4-75 mm. Middle and Southern States; five specimens. (DifTers from 

 .6. af?-«ws in color and in form of prothorax.) 7. i n t e r s ti t i a 1 i s ^Soy. 



Black, shining ; body narrow, prothorax longer than wide, sides broadly 

 rounded in front, disc strongly punctured, without dorsal carina ; elytra with 

 a feeble oblique impression near the base, striae scarcely punctured ; inter- 

 stices with rows of very fine punctures. Long. 3-5 mm. California; two 



specimens ; San Francisco 8. m ac e r Lee. 



A— b. 



(The beak is longer and more slender than in A — a, and the thorax 

 is transversely impressed near the tip, at least on the sides ) 



Prothorax at base nearly as wide as the elytra. 1. 



Prothorax at base narrower than the elytra; black, shining, very coarsely 

 sculptured, elytral intervals not wider than the strise, and marked with single 

 rows of deep punctures. Long. 5'5-6-5 mm. Illinois, Kansas, Arizona. 



9. striatus Say. 



1. Body nearly glabrous, color black, 2. 



" " color bright brown, 8. 



Body rather robust and convex, brownish black, more pubescent than 

 ■usual; prothorax wider than long, gradually narrowed from the base and 

 feebly rounded on the sides ; elytral intervals with rather confused rows of 

 somewhat transverse punctures. Long. 4 — 5 mm. Kansas. (Resembles in 

 appearance a Cenlrinus) 10. farctus. 



Body robust, black, more pubescent than usual, prothorax wider than long, 

 feebly narrowed from the base, sides much rounded in front almost straight 

 behind, very densely and coarsely punctured, with a slender carina ; elytral 

 intervals wider than the strise, densely and confusedly punctured. Long. 

 4 mm. California, 3 specimens. S.Diego IL d e n s u s i/ec. 



2. Prothorax with distinct smooth dorsal line. 3. 



" without " " " 6. 



3. Elytral intervals usually not wider than the striae, with rows of very 

 strongly marked punctures; body larger and wider. 4. 



Elytral intervals wider than tbe striae, with single rows of finer shallow 

 punctures ; body smaller and narrower. 5. 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 363 



4. Prothorax gradually narrowed from the base, broadly rounded on the 

 sides, more strongly towards the lip, coarsely punctured, the punctures more 

 distant than the length of their diameters ; (elytral intervals and striae as in 

 B. striatus; resembles B. carinulatus, but the prothorax is distinctly 

 impressed on the sides near the tips,) Long. 6 mm. Kansas and Wiscon- 

 sin 12. strenuus. 



Resembles the preceding in form and sculpture, but the punctures of the 

 prothorax are larger and more distinctly umbilicated, and the sides more 

 deeply constricted near the tip. Long. 5 mm. Penna., one specimen ; 

 Mr. Rathvon 13. umbilicatus. 



Somewhat narrower and more regularly oval, prothorax gradually but more 

 strongly narrowed from the base, and more obliquely rounded near the tip, 

 less coarsely but somewhat more densely punctured than in B. strenuus; 

 elytra with the intervals wider than the stria;, with rather confused rows of 

 fine but well marked punctures. Long. 6 mm. Wisconsin, 1 specimen. 



14. s ub o V a 1 i s. 



5. Punctures of prothorax more distant than their diameter, sides scarcely 

 narrowed from the base, more broadly rounded near the tip, dorsal line 

 wide; elytral intervals wider than the striae with rows of distant large 

 shallow punctures. Body less convex than usual. Long. 3-5 mm. New 

 Mexico, 1 specimen 15. d i s t a n s. 



Prothorax more densely punctured, sides slightly narrowed from the base, 

 more obliquely rounded near the tip and more distinctly constricted ; elytra 

 as in the preceding, but with a small white pubescent basal spot each side, 

 and a few scattered white scale-like hairs. Long. 3 — 4 mm. Southern 

 States, 3 specimens 16. nigrinus Say. 



6. Body oval or elongate. 7. 

 Body broadly ovate, black shining, prothorax wider than long, strongly 



but not densely punctured, with very feeble dorsal carina, sides narrowed 

 from the base, strongly rounded in front, and deeply constricted near the tip; 

 elytral intervals wider than the strise, with rows of small but deep punctures. 

 Long. 2-5 — 3 mm. Middle States, 4 specimens 17. ovatus. 



7. Bod}' oval, black shining, j)rothorax not wider than long, strongly and 

 densely punctured, without dorsal carina, sides narrowed and broadly 

 rounded from the base, slightly constricted near the tip ; elytral intervals 

 broad, with rows of very fine but well marked punctures. Long. 2-5 mm. 

 Middle States, 2 specimens 18. p u s i 1 1 u s. 



Body elongate oval, black, less shining, prothorax longer than wide, more 

 coarsely punctured, punctures less distant than the length of their diameters, 

 without dorsal carina, sides converging from the base, rounded only near the 

 apex, which is feebly constricted ; elytral intervals a little wider than the striae, 

 with rows of well marked punctures, disc feebly impressed obliquely each 

 side behind the shoulder. (Of the same form as B. m a c e r, but otherwise 

 quite distinct. It differs remarkably from all the others of this division by 

 the 2d joint of the funiculus of the antennae being somewhat longer than the 

 3d, though much less conspicuously than in the species of division B.) Long. 

 3 — 3-5. Illinois and Kansas. 5 specimens 19. a n g u s t u s. 



Also slender in form, black, not very shining, prothorax punctured as in 

 the preceding, with the sides not converging from the base, but parallel, and 

 more strongly rounded in front, tip feeblj' constricted ; elytral intervals wider 

 than the striae, with rows of well marked punctures. (Resembles B. m a c e r, 

 but the thorax is more full in form, more densely punctured, and is feebly con- 

 stricted at the tip ; the beak is also longer and more slender.) Long. 2-5 mm. 

 California, 1 specimen. San Francisco 20. s e r i a t u s //ec. 



Somewhat less slender, bronzed black, shining, prothorax scarcely larger 

 than wide, narrowed from the base and feebly rounded on the sides except 



1868.] 




364 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



near the tip, where it is more strongly rounded and slightly constricted disc, 

 coarsely but more sparsely punctured than usual, punctures more distant 

 than the length of their diameters; elytral strife impunctnred, intervals much 

 wider than the stria;, with single rows of small punctures. Long. 3 mm. One 



specimen, Oregon 21. sparsus. 



8. Body elongate, bright brown, very shining, prothorax rather sparsely 

 punctured with a broad undefined smooth medial line ; elytral uneven, 

 with a transverse impression before the middle, an oblique one behind the 

 humeri, and a verj^ faint one behind the middle ; striae feebly punctured, in- 

 tervals much wider than the striaj, with scarcely perceptible rows of very fine 

 punctures. Long. 3 mm. Ohio and Illinois ; (depredates on grape vine, pro- 

 ducing the gall described by Mr. Walsh as vitiscunnus.).... 22. S e s o s tr 1 s.* 



A— c. 



The species contained in this group are of a slender form like some of 

 those in b, and like them have an elongated moderately slender beak; the 

 antenna; are not quite so stout, though the 2d joint of the funiculus is not 

 conspicuously longer than the 3d. The body beneath is densely clothed with 

 depressed ash colored hairs, and is equally densely pubescent above. The 

 prothorax is constricted near the tip, and the disc is strongly and densely 

 punctured with a slightly elevated dorsal line. The species of this group 

 have the last larsal joint more elongated than in the other species of the 

 genus, and the claws closely approximated, and somewhat connate at base ; 

 the males are also distinguished by the last ventral segment being armed at 

 tip with a small tooth. These differences, combined with those of appear- 

 ance, produced by the dense covering of hair, would indicate the propriety 

 of separating them as a distinct genus. 



Prothorax feebly constricted near the tip. 1. 



" more strongly " " " 2. 



1. Small, pubescence less dense, prothoraxlonger than wide, feebly narrowed 

 in front, slightly rounded on the sides, and feebly constricted near the tip. 

 without basal glabrous spots. Long. 3 mm. Maryland, 1 spec. .23. p 1 u m b eu s. 



Larger, pubescence very dense, prothorax very little longer than wide, 

 gradually narrowed in front, slightly narrowed on the sides, and feebly con- 

 stricted near the tip, with three basal glabrous black spots extending upon 

 the scutellum and base of elytra. Long. 4-5 mm. Atlantic States, abun- 

 dant 24. t r in o t a t u s ;S(/y. 



2. Larger, pubescence dense, prothorax scarcely longer than wide, subtra- 

 pezoidal gradually narrowed from the base, sides nearly straight, suddenly 

 rounded near the tip and more strongly constricted, coarsely and densely 

 punctured, distiucily carinated, marked with basal spots as in the preceding. 

 Long. 45 — 6 mm. California, also at Cajje San Lucas, 3 spec. 



25. mucoreus Lee. 

 B. 

 The species of this division have the beak longer and more slender than 

 those of A, and the antenna; are much thinner, the 2d joint of the funiculus 

 is much longer than the 3d, thus showing an approacli to Centrinus, which 

 these species resemble in their form ; the body is nearly glabrous, and the 

 prothorax is constricted near the tip. 



The three species before me may be distinguished as follows : 

 Body black, somewhat shining, prothorax strongly punctured, without dor- 

 sal carina, gradually and strongly narrowed from the base, and rounded on 

 the sides ; elytral intervals with single rows of strongl}' marked punctures, 

 humeri scarcely wider than the base of prothorax. Long. 3-5 mm. Kansas, 

 one specimen 26. na s u t u s. 



* Vide Herodotus, Euterpe, cap. 102. 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 365 



Body black, shining, prothorax as in the preceding, elytra at humeri dis- 

 tinctly wider than base of prothorax, intervals with confused fine punctures. 

 Long. 3-5 — 4-5 mm. Southern States, 4 specimens. (Rather stouter in form 

 than the preceding, and resembling almost exactly B. f a r e u s, but quite dif- 

 ferent by the antenna and beak.) 27. ibis. 



Body brown, shining, prothorax longer than in the preceding and less 

 rounded on the sides, more densely punctured with a faint dorsal carina ; 

 elytra at humeri distinctly wider than base of prothorax, intervals wtth con- 

 fused fine punctures. Long. 3-5 mm. Georgia and Illinois, 4 specimens. 



28. s c o 1 p ax Say. 

 Bibliography. 



B. carinulatus Lcc. Proc. Ac. Nat. Sc, Phila., 1858, 79. 



B. transversus Say. Cure. 18 ; ed. Lee. i, 282. 



B a e r e u s Sch. Cure, viii, 141. 



B. interstitialis Say. Cure. 18 and 26 ; ed. Lee. i, 282, 295 ; Journ. 

 Acad. N. S. Ph. iii, 314; ed. Lee. ii, 176; Sch. iii, 684 ; viii, 149. In well pre- 

 served specimens small scale-like hairs are perceived in the rows of punc- 

 tures on the elytral intervals, 



B. m a c e r Lee. Rep. Pac. R. R. Expl. xi, MS. 58. 



B. striatus Say. Cure. 17 ; ed. Lee. i, 281. 



B. den s us Lee. Proc. Ac. Nat. Sc, Phila., 1859, 79. 



B. n igri nu s Say. Cure. 31 ; ed. Lee. i, 295. Sch. Cure, iii, 691 ; viii, 154. 



B. seriatus Lee. Rep. Pac. R. R. Expl. xi, MS., 58. 



B. trinotatus Say. Cure. 7 ; ed. Lee. i, 280 ; vestitusX Sch. Cure, iii, 718. 



B. mucoreus Lee. Proc. Ac. Nat. Sc, Phila., 1858, 79. 



B. s c ol o p ax 5(/y. Cure. 26 ; ed. Lee. i, 295 ; Sch. Cure. iii. 699. I do 

 not know for what reason Schdnherr has referred this species to his first divi- 

 sion ; Boheman, in the description, mentions the antenna as minus erassx, 

 which in fact tiiey are. 



Speeies iinknown to me. 



B. T-signum Sch. Cure, viii, 154. 



B. anthraclnus Sch. Ibid, iii, 727. Seems to be near 28. ibis Lee. 

 B. confertus Seh. Cure, iii, 728. 

 B. californicus Motseh. Bull. Mosc. 1845, ii, 372. 



B. pubescens Uhler, Proc. Ac. Nat. Sc, Phila., 7, 417 belongs to Cen- 

 trinus and is C. p i s t o r Sch. = Balaninus pistor Germ. 



The GYEINID.E of America, north of Mexico. 

 BY JOHN L. LE CONTE. 



Species of this family are found in every part of the United States and con- 

 tiguous northern regions, usually in large colonies ; from their whirling mo- 

 tion of the surface of the water they are popularly known as whirligigs, and, on 

 account of the agreeable fragrant odor of some of the species, as apple-bugs. 



There is a remarkable uniformity of appearance in the species of each genus, 

 which renders their definition and recognition somewhat difficult ; for this 

 reason, notwithstanding the very curious structural characters displayed in 

 their organization, which are detailed in all sj-stematic works, they are not 

 favorites with collectors, and many of our species have remained unnamed. 



Three genera are represented in our fauna : 



Last ventral segment depressed, rounded at tip : 



Scutellnm distinct: labrura transverse Gj-rinus. 



Scutellum invisible; labrum transverse D i n e u t u s. 



Last ventral segment elongated, conical : 



Scutellum invisible ; labrum prominent Gyretes. 



1868.] 




366 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



DINEUTUS McLeay. 

 Cyclinus Kirby. 



The species of this genus are of larger size than those of the other two, and 

 of less convex form ; the elytra are marked with nine very slightly impressed, 

 sometimes almost invisible, striae or furrows; the labrum is rounded in front 

 and ciliated, the scutellum is invisible, and the mesosternum is sparsely but 

 coarsely punctured in front. 



In the males the front tarsi are moderately dilated, and clothed beneath with 

 feathery papillre densely arranged in transverse lines, forming an elongated 

 narrow brush ; in D. sublineatus, emarginalus, serrulatus, and probably in caro- 

 linus, the front thighs of the male are dilated near the knee, on the anterior 

 margin, into a more or less developed tooth, varying somewhat in form, accord- 

 ing to the individual degree of development, but always well marked ; in D. 

 vittalus, discolor and assimilis, the tooth is entirely wanting. 



The hind margin of the elytra is not toothed, nor strongly serrate, in any of 

 our species, which may be divided into two groups as follows : 



A. Sutural angles of elytra rounded. 



B. Sutural angles of elytra well defined, sometimes slightly prolonged. 



A. 



14-5 — 15-5 mm. Black or black-bronzed, very shining ; elytra usually with a 

 brighter bronzed vitta ; striae faint ; sutural angle very much rounded ; under 

 surface dark chestnut-brown, middle and hind legs pale 1. vittatus. 



15-5 — 16-5 mm. Dark olive above, not very shining; elytral striae distinct ; 

 sutural angle moderately rounded ; under surface black ; middle and hind legs 

 iridescent, with the tibiae and tarsi brown 2. sublineatus. 



9 — 12-5 mm. Black, or black-bronzed, not very shining; elytral striae very 

 faint ; sutural angle very much rounded, apical margin flat ; under surface 

 dark brown or blackish, slightly bronzed; middle and hind legs, narrow mar- 

 gin and tip of abdomen paler, nearly testaceous 3. emarginatus. 



10-5 mm. Black-bronzed, more shining; elytral striae very faint; sutural 

 angle less strongly rounded ; apical margin narrowly reflexed ; under surface 

 brown ; middle and hind legs, broad margin and tip of abdomen pale. 



4. c a r 1 i n u s n. sp. 



B. 



a. Body brown or testaceous beneath, oval, narrowed in front ; hind mar- 

 gins of elytra very feebly sinuate ; sutural angle of (^ not, of 9 very feebly 

 prolonged. 



12-5 mm. Body broadly oval, narrowed in front; upper surface black, 

 slightly bronzed, shining ; lateral margin of elytra broadly flattened ; apical 

 edge very finely serrate 5. serrulatus n. sp. 



11 — 12-5 ram. More convex and narrower, narrowed in front ; upper surface 

 black-bronzed, rarely black, shining; lateral margin of elytra less broadly 

 flattened; apical edge entire 6. discolor. 



b. Body beneath black, slightly bronzed ; middle and hind feet, and fre- 

 quently sides and tip of the abdomen, pale ; elytra distinctly sinuated near the 

 tip in the 9 1 ^nd sutural angle very prominent in that sex. 



10-5 — 12 mm. Black, usually slightly bronzed, ^ more shining than the 

 9 ; middle and hind legs testaceous ; margin and tip of abdomen pale ; elytra 

 feebly striate, sparsely and finely punctulate ; (^J* with the elytra not sinuate 

 near the tip, feebly sinuate at the tip; sutural angle slightly prominent ; 9 

 deeply sinuate on the side near the tip ; margin elevated at the sinuosity, sinu- 

 ate again at the tip, with the sutural angle very prominent.).. 7. a s s i m i 1 i s. 



[Dec. 




NATUEAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 367 



Bibliography and remarks. 



1. D. vittatus ,4?/i/, H3'droc. 768; Gt/rinus vitt. Germ. sp. nov. 32; Cy- 

 cloiis opacus 'Mels., Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. ii, 29 (faded specimens). Middle 

 and Soutliera States, not rare. 



2. D. sublineatus Aub^, Hydroc. 11o ; Giirinus suhl. Chevr., Col. Mex. 

 cent, i ; 9 -O- integer Lee , Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. vii, 221. Arizona and 

 Lower California. 



3. D. e m a r g I n a t n s White, Brit. Mus. Cat. ; Gyrinus emarg Say, Trans. 

 Am. Phil. Soc. ii, 108 ; ed. Lee. ii, 519 ; D. americanmX Aub6, Hydroc. 777 (nee. 

 Linn.) Abundant in the middle and northern States ; for remarks on Gyrinus 

 americanus Linn., showing its probable identity with the West Indian D. 

 metallicus Aub4, see the note of Dr. Schaum in Stettin Ent. Zeit. 1848, 337. 



4. D. carolinus. I have seen but two 9 specimens, collected in South 

 Carolina; it closely resembles the preceding, but is more shining, and the api- 

 cal margin of the elytra, instead of being flat, is very narrowly refle.xed. 



5. D. serrulatus. Middle and Southern States. I have seen but two 

 (^ 9 specimens of this species, which resembles in form D. a s s i m i 1 i s , but 

 is easily distinguished by the fine serration of the apical margin of the elytra, 

 the sutural angle less prominent, the lateral flattened margin broader and more 

 reflexed, the posterior sinuosity of the eh'tra of the female much less, the striae 

 of the elytra less visible, and finally by the front thighs of the male being 

 armed with a strong sharp tooth. 



6. D. discolor .4m^/^, Hydroc. 784; Cyclous lahratiis Mels. Proc. Acad. 

 Nat. Sci. Phila. ii, 29. Abundant from Canada to Louisiana, and from Maine 

 to Kansas ; easily known by its narrower form and pale ferruginous under 

 surface ; the front thighs of the male are not toothed. 



7. D. a s s i m i 1 i s Aub^, Hydroc. 778. Cychnus ass. Kirby, Fauna Bor. Am. 

 iv, 78. Gyrinus americanus Say, Trans. Am. Philos. Soc. ii, 107 ; ed. Lee. ii, 

 519. Our most abundant species, usually known as apple bug ; extends from 

 Lake Superior to Texas, and from Maine to Kansas. The front femora of the 

 male are not toothed. 



Gyrinus Linn. 



"The species of this genus, as at present defined, are peculiar in having II 

 rows of punctures on each elytron, and an oval transverse figure limited by 

 punctures near the tip. The legs are always ferruginous, or testaceous. 

 Usually two frontal impressions and two thoracic transverse impressions are 

 well defined, but they are not equally evident in every individual, and are 

 sometimes entirely obliterated. 



"For the better definition of the species it must be observed that in those 

 in which the upper surface has a shining metallic gloss, the color becomes 

 sometimes black, and sometimes in part dark brown ; in the same proportion 

 the black color of the breast and the abdomen varies to ferruginous. The ob- 

 literation of the rows of punctures next the suture is of doubtful specific value, 

 as is also the size of the specimens, both of which characters are subject to 

 great variations." — Zimmermann, MS. To this I may add that the frontal im- 

 pressions are of no value in distinguishing species. 



On account of the close resemblance between the species, it has been very 

 difficult to identify them by the descriptions thus far published, and, as will 

 be seen in the biljliography and remarks, the determinations are frequently 

 different in each of the standard collections which have been independently 

 formed in this country. 



My own determinations are in some instances at variance with those of Dr. 

 Zimmermann and Dr. Harris, and I hope may be sustained by reference to the 

 types preserved in European collections; but at all events the possession of a 

 much larger number of specimens, from more widely separated localities, has 



1868.] 




oG8 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



givcu me greater advantage in distingnishing and defining the forms to whicA 

 specific names must, in the present condition of science, be given. 



The species before me may be arranged in the following groups, the meso- 

 sternum being of normal form in all except pectoralis: 



A. Scutellum flat : 



a. Under side margin of prothorax and epipleurse testaceous. 



b. Under side margin of prothorax and epipleurse metallic black. 



B. Scutellum finely but distinctly cariuate : 



(Under side margin of prothorax and epipleurae testaceous.) 



A — a. 

 * Under surface uniform testaceous, or brown. 



6 — 6-75 mm. 9- Elongate oval, polished black, more or less bronzed; 

 punctures of the elytral rows approximate, rather fine; tip much rounded, 

 outer angle not distinct 1. confinisXec. 



6 mm. 9- ^ little less elongated, polished black, not bronzed; punctures 

 of the elytral rows stronger, and equally closely placed. 2. fraternus Couper. 



4-5 — 5 mm. Smaller, not very elongate, polished black ; margins and sides 

 broadly bronzed ; punctures of outer elytral rows stronger and moderately ap- 

 proximate ; abdomen sometimes dark at the middle 3. 1 i m b a t u s Sai/. 



5-5 mm. 9- More elongated, uniformly black bronzed; punctures of elytral 

 rows rather strong, moderately approximate 4. ae n e olu s, n. sp. 



4-5 — 5 mm. ' Of the same form, color and sculpture as 1 i m b a t u s, 

 scarcely bronzed and a little wider; the ventral segments of the abdomen in 

 mature specimens are darker brown, the punctures of the elytral rows more 

 approximate, with the last segment paler 5. d i ch r o us, n. sp. 



5-25 mm. (^. More elongate, strongly attenuated before and behind, and 

 more elevated at the middle than usual, black, highly polished, broadly bronzed 

 on the sides, but not on the suture or reflexed margin of the elytra; rows com- 

 posed of larger bronzed punctures not very approximate, becoming coarser at 

 the sides; tip truncate, slightly rounded ; outer angle not very obvious; body 

 beneath and legs ferruginous. (Easily distinguished by its more compressed 

 convex form and coarser punctures.) , 6. e 1 e v a t u s, n. sp. 



5-5 — 6-5 mm. Elongate oval, more narrowed in front, black, highly polish- 

 ed ; margins and sides slightly bronzed ; tip of elytra more concave than usual ; 

 (margin not interrupted) ; rows of elytral punctures bronzed, well marked, 

 approximate; under surtace uniform reddish-brown. (Resembles c o n ti n i s, 

 but is much larger and more narrowed in front, from the base of the ely- 

 tra) 7. consobrinus Lee. 



5 — 6-5 ram. Of the same form, color and sculpture as consobrinus, but 

 a little broader and with the reflexed margin of the elytra interrupted near the 

 tip by a small flattened space, and the tip less rounded 8. pi i c if e r Lee. 



g.5 — 7 mm. Oval, less elongate, black, very highly polished, iridescent ; 

 margins and sides bronzed ; rows of punctures of elytra well marked, approxi- 

 mate ; under surface reddish-brown, sides and tip of abdomen a little paler. 

 (A beautiful species, easily known by its larger size and more brilliant irides- 

 cent surface; in one specimen the under surface is nearly black.) 



9. ventralis Kirby. 



6-5 mm. Similar in size, color and sculpture to v e n tra li s, and equally 

 brilliant, but somewhat narrower in form, with the tip of the elytra more sud- 

 denlv truncate, less rounded and with the outer angle obtuse, only slightly 

 rounded and quite distinct 10. aquiris, n. sp. 



**Trunk dark piceous ; abdomen with tip and lateral spots pale. 



6 — 6-75 mm. More elongate than usual, black, highly polished, slightly iri- 

 descent; margins bronzed ; punctures of elytral rows bronzed, fine, well marked, 

 approximate ; tip more rounded than usual 11. m a c u 1 i v e n t r i s, n. sp. 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 369 



*** Trunk black bronzed, or piceous bronzed; tip of abdomen reddish- 

 brown. 



7-25— 8 mm. Oval, less elongated, black, shining', but not polished, very 

 minutelj- punctulate or rugose ; margins bronzed ; tips of elytra more concave 

 than usual; punctures of rows well marked, approximate. (Easily distin- 

 guished by the fine punctuation of the upper surface and the bronzed color be- 

 neath.) 12. a ffin is Aub^. 



A— b. 



a. Body oval in form, regularly convex. 



* Anterior margin of mesosternum regular in form. 



5"25 — 575 mm. Oval, equally attenuated at each end, black, shining, high- 

 ly polished ; margins and sides bronzed ; elytra with rows of deeply impressed, 

 bronzed, coarse punctures, so approximated that the outer striae appear im- 

 pressed ; tip broadly subtruncate, feebly rounded; outer angle distinct. 



13. parous Sa^/. 



5-5 — 6-5 mm. Oval more elongate, nearly equally narrowed before and be- 

 hind, black, shining, highly polished ; margins and sides bronzed ; elytral rows 

 composed of approximate bronzed punctures, the outer ones a little stronger 

 than the inner; tip of elytra strongly rounded, outer angle not distinct ; last 

 ventral segment sometimes dark reddish-brown ; sides of prothorax slightly 

 rounded. 



rt. Apical oval of punctured curve of elytra composed of large, coarse 



punctures. 

 0. Apical oval curve composed of very fine punctures, almost obliterated ; 

 middle and hind legs darker than usual 14. picipes Auh4. 



5-25 mm. Smaller and a little narrower than picipes, of a less shining 

 black, feebly bronzed, more brilliantly at the margins and sides ; elytral rows 

 composed of less approximate bronzed punctures, the outer ones a little 

 stronger than the inner; tip of elytra strongly rounded ; outer angle not dis- 

 tinct; apical oval curve composed of distant, well marked punctures; middle 

 and hind legs darker than usual 15. o p a c u s Sahib. 



7 mm. Larger and a little stouter, black, highly polished and with bluish 

 reflections ; margins and sides bronzed ; elytral rows composed of fine bronzed, 

 very closely approximated punctures, outer rows distinctly impressed ; tip of 

 elytra broadly truncate, feebly rounded ; outer angle distinct, though obtuse 

 and rounded; legs ferruginous, under surface black ; last ventral segment verj' 

 dark brown t 16. boreal is Aub^. 



6 mm. Of the same form, color and sculpture as the preceding, but still more 

 highly polished; the elytra are still less rounded at tip, and the punctures of 

 the rows are less fine and less approximate, and the outer rows, though a little 

 stronger, are not impressed; the under surface is black, the last ventral seg- 

 ment ferruginous in one, but very dark brown in two other specimens ; the legs 

 ferruginous 17. pernitidus, n. sp. 



6 — 7 mm. Of the size and form as b o r e a 1 i s, but above black, less 

 highly polished and not at all bronzed ; tip of elytra more rounded, with the 

 outer angle less distinct; the rows are composed of small but less approximate 

 punctures, and the outer rows, though stronger, are not impressed; the under 

 surface is black, feebly bronzed ; the legs ferruginous, and the last ventral 

 segment dark brown 18. lugens Zim. 



5 — 6 mm. Smaller, more elongate, black bronzed both above and beneath ; 

 upper surface not highly polished ; elytra with the tip broadly but not strong- 

 ly rounded ; outer angle not distinct ; rows composed of not very fine, less 

 approximate punctures, outer rows but little stronger than the inner ones ; legs 

 and last ventral segment ferruginous. (Resembles in form, size and sculpture 

 G. o p a c u s, but is more bronzed above and beneath, the legs and last ventral 

 segment are paler and the inferior pair of eyes are larger.... 19. a n a 1 i s Say. 



1868.] 




370 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



** Front margin of mesosternum trilobed, with an oblique impression each 

 side. 



5 — 6 mm. Oval, shining black, highly polished, margins and sides bronzed ; 

 elytra at tip moderately rounded ; outer angle not distinct ; rows composed of 

 bronzed, approximate punctures, outer rows not stronger than the inner ones; 

 beneath black, slightly bronzed ; legs ferruginous, thighs darker. (Of the same 

 size and form as G. 1 i m b a t u s and consobrinus, but easily recognized 

 by the very peculiar form of the mesosternum.) 20. p e ct or al i s, n. sp. 



b. Body broader, subovate, more suddenly convex at the middle and 

 obliquely declivous before and behind. 



5-5 mm. 9- Uniform black, bronzed above; elytra with the tip broadly 

 truncate, feebly rounded, outer angle distinct but rounded ; rows composed of 

 fine approximate punctures, outer ones not stronger, lateral margin more 

 broadly reflexed than usual. Beneath black, with slightly metallic reflection, 

 last ventral segment dark brown, legs ferruginous ; mesosternum feebly chan- 

 neled for its entire length 21. gibber Zim. 



B. 



4 — 4-5 mm. Elongate oval, bluish black, not highly polished, sides broadly 

 bronzed ; elytra with the tip truncate, feebly rounded, outer angle somewhat 

 distinct, though rounded ; rows composed of approximate bronzed punctures, 

 the outer ones stronger than the inner; under surface, inflexed margins and 

 legs ferruginous, anterior ventral segments sometimes darker ; mesosternum 

 with a very deep median furrow 22. minutus Linn. 



3-5 — 4-5 mm. Of the same size and form as minutus, but a little 

 narrower and more convex and of a more dull black color, though slightly 

 bronzed at the sides ; prothorax more rugose, rows of the elytra composed of 

 more approximate punctures, and especially distinguished by the mesoster- 

 num being but feelDly channelled in front, with a large elongate posterior 

 fovea ; under surface always ferruginous yellow. 



23. rockinghamensis Zim. 



Bibliography and Remarks. 



1. G. confinis. Similar in form to the Californian G. consobrinus, but 

 less polished, with a slight bronzed color over the whole upper surface, more 

 brilliant at the suture and margins. Abundant at Lake Superior. I have 

 also several specimens from the interior of Oregon or Montana. 



2. G. fraternus Couper, Canadian Naturalist, 2d ser. ii, 60. Canada 

 and Lake Superior ; for types I am indebted to Mr. W. Couper, late of Quebec, 

 but now of Ottawa. Is of the same size as the preceding, but a little more 

 robust, and easily distinguished by the entire absence of bronzed lustre on 

 the upper surface, even at the suture and margin. 



3. G. limb at us <?«?/, Trans. Am. Phil. Soc. ii, 109; ed. Lee. ii, 520. 

 Canada and Lake Superior. In one specimen the suture is not bronzed, and 

 in one the abdomen is dark brown at the middle. I received from the late 

 Dr. T. W. Harris a specimen of this species from Western New York, as No. 

 1642^of his collection, G. analis Say, and in Dr. Zimmermann's collection it is 

 named G. limbalus Say. From the former it differs by the under surface being 

 ferruginous. It is quite possible that the determination of Dr. Zimmermann 

 is correct, and although I have seen no specimens from Georgia and 

 Florida, the locality mentioned by Say, I have no other which agrees 

 so nearly with his description, or which resembles in appearance G. analis, 

 with which he compares it. 



4. G. a e n e o 1 u s. One specimen, Illinois, Mr. Willcox. This species is 

 easily known by the uniform and tolerably brilliant bronze color of the upper 

 surface, which, with the more elongate form and ferruginous under surface 

 perfectly defines it. 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 371 



5. G. dichrous. New England. I received this species from Dr. Harris 

 as bearing the name in the Melsheimer collection ; specimens under the same 

 name are contained in Dr. Zimmermann's cabinet, now in possession of Dr. 

 Samuel Lewis. It closely resembles G. limbatus, but is a little more 

 robust, and not bronzed on the margin and suture. 



6. G. elevatus. One specimen. New York, No. 1829 Harris' collection. 

 Very distinct by its more convex elevated body, more strongly attenuated 

 at each end, and by the much coarser punctures of the outer elytral rows. 



7. G. consobrinus Lee. Ann. Lye. Nat. Hist. New York, v, 209. 

 Abundant in California, at San Francisco, Mendocino, &c. 



8. G. p 1 i c i f e r iec, ibid. California, not abundant. Easily known by 

 the reflexed edge of the elytra being interrupted near the tip by a slight de- 

 pression, so that the appearance of a small fold is produced, extending from 

 the small depression to the apical truncation. I received from Mr. A. Murray 

 a smaller specimen, which agrees sufficiently with the description of G. mar- 

 giniventris Motsch., Bull. Mosc. 1859, ii, 174, to induce me to place the latter 

 aa a synonym. 



9. G. y tM iv&Ws Kirby, Fauna Bor. Am., iv, 80 ; Aube. Hydroc. 672. A 

 common species from Pennsylvania, northward to Lake Superior; in the Zim- 

 mermann collection it is determined as G-verjlralis Kirby, but although agree- 

 ing in other respects with Kirby's description it seems generally too large to 

 be referred to the latter, which is compared with G. a e n e u s, a much smal- 

 ler species. Specimens occur in which the under surface is chestnut brown, 

 with the inflexed margins, the sides and tip of the abdomen and the legs 

 paler ferruginous; G. limbatus J Aub<i, 670 (nee Say), is considered by Dr. 

 Zimmermann to belong to this species. 



10. G. a q u i r i s. Middle States ; differs from the preceding in the narrower 

 form, and more squarely truncate elytra ; the under surface is darker brown, 

 in one specimen nearly black, with the inflexed margins, sides and tip of 

 abdomen, and feet paler ferruginous ; it is less elongate than the next species 

 aad the pale color of the sides of the ventral segments is not arranged in 

 spots but is diffused. On account of the more sudden truncation of the tips 

 of the elytra I would refer G. limbatus J Aube to this, rather than to the pre- 

 ceding species. 



11. G. maculiventris. Abundant at Lake Superior; one specimen 

 from Montana; more elongate than usual, and easily recognized by the dark 

 brown color of the under surface, with well marked pale triangular spots 

 each side on the ventral segments. 



12. G. a f f i n i s Aub£, Hydroc. 669. New York to Lake Superior ; I have 

 also two specimens from Middle California. Our largest species, easily dis- 

 tinguished by the upper surface of both sexes, (not alone of the (^ as men- 

 tioned by Mr. Aube), being covered with very fine lines, producing under a 

 high lens an aciculate appearance. I received from Dr. Harris one speci- 

 men as No. 819 var. G. limbatus Say., teste Say, but its much larger size, as 

 well as the dark bronzed color of the greater part of the under surface, com- 

 pletely separate it from that species. 



13. G. parens Say, Trans. Am. Phil. Soc, iv, 448; ed. Lee. ii, 562; 

 Aub^, Hydroc. 701. Two specimens from Texas agree with the descriptions 

 of this species ; they differ from the other small species having the under 

 surface black bronzed, by the more coarse punctures of the elytral rows, the 

 outer ones of which become, by the approximation of the punctures, slightly 

 impressed. 



14. G. p'icipes Aube, Hydroc, 694; Mannh. Bull. Mosc. 1843, 223; 

 ibid., 1853, ii, 164. Alaska and Oregon. I have three specimens collected 

 in Labrador, one of which does not seem to differ from the types from Alaska 

 kindly sent me by Baron Chaudoir and Count Mnizech ; in one of the speci- 



1868.] 




372 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



mens the inflexed margins are slightly tinged with dark reddish brown, as 

 mentioned in the remarks of Mannerheim under the second reference. Two 

 specimens {(^ 9 ) from Labrador, are much smaller, only 5-25 mm. long, but 

 do not seem to differ in any other respect; var. b, of the last reference, is 

 probably a distinct species, but I have seen no specimen to correspond with it. 

 at. A race of this species is represented by four specimens from Lake Supe- 

 rior, which resemble in appearance the t3'pical G. ptcipes, but differ only by 

 the apical crescentic oval curve of the elytral being composed of larger punc- 

 tures. This differs from the others of the same group (except pernilidtis) 

 by the more elongate form, more highly polished surface, and more brilliantly 

 bronzed suture, margin and punctures; G. pernitidus is more highly 

 polished, but has the elytral rows composed of less approximate punctures ; 

 G. b or e a 1 i s is larger and stouter than the two species in question, though 

 otherwise resembling them very closely. 



15. G. opacus Sahlberg, Ins. Fenn., 47; Schiodte, Naturhist. Bidrag. 

 Gronland, p. 54 ; G. leneus Aub^, Hydroc. 690, (fide Redtenbacher). Mr. 

 Drewsen, of Copenhagen, has kindly sent me three specimens of this species, 

 with a very complete series of the other Coleoptera of Greenland. G. ecneus 

 Kirby, Fauna. Bor. Am. iv, 80, must according to the size given (2 4-5th lin.) 

 be a much larger species, which is unknown to me, unless it be G. borealis. 



16. G. b o r e a 1 i s ^wi^, Hydroc. 692. New York to Lake Superior; the 

 distinguishing characters of this have been sufficiently pointed out in the re- 

 marks upon other species. 



17. G. p e r n i t i d u s. The type of this species is a single 9 from Georgia; 

 with it I have associated two other females sent me by Dr. Harris, as No. 242, 

 analis? Say; one of the specimens agrees perfectly with the type, while in 

 the other the punctures of the rows of the elytra are much less approximate, 

 the inner rows less strongly marked, and the last ventral segment nearly 

 black, instead of ferruginous, as in the type ; it is probably a distinct species, 

 and is perhaps a small specimen of G. Sayi Aube, 698, which is otherwise 

 unknown to me. 



Dr. Zimmermann determined this as G. borealis, but the size given in the 

 description of Mr. Aube (7 mm.) represents a larger speices, and I have 

 accordingly referred it to the preceding. 



18. G. lugens Zimni. MS. New England and Lake Superior; easily 

 known by the larger and stouter form, similar to G. borealis, but not at all 

 bronzed above. 



19. G. a n a 1 i s Sat/, Trans. Am. Phil. Soc, ii, 108 ; ed. Lee. ii, 520 ; ibid, 

 iv, 448, ed. Leo. ii, 562 ; Aub^, Hydroc. 697. Louisiana to Lake Superior, 

 easily distinguished by the upper surface uniformly bronzed ; the under sur- 

 face black bronzed, with the last ventral segment and feet ferruginous ; the 

 form is narrower than in the other species of this group, except G. opacus, 

 which is, however, less oval and more narrowed behind. 



20. G. p e c t o r al i s. Lake Superior and Hudson Bay Territory, (Fort 

 Liard). 



21. G. gibber Zimm., MS. I have seen but the single specimen of this 

 peculiar species found in North Carolina by Dr. Zimmermann, from whose 

 MS. I have translated the description; this unique specimen was kindly 

 given to me by Dr. Samuel Lewis. 



Bibliography and remarks. 



22. G. m in u t u s Fabr., Syst. El. i, 276 ; Kirliy, Fauna Bor. Am. iv, 81 ; 

 Aub^, Hydroc. 683. Lake Superior, abundant. I have omitted much of the 

 European synonymy of this species, as not applicable to our fauna; it is, 

 however, necessary to observe that the fine carina of the scutellum which 

 distinguishes this and the next, so far as I know, from all others of the genus 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 373 



is not mentioned by the authors above cited, nor by Redtenbacher ; but atten- 

 tion is called to it in the description of Thomson, Skandir. Coleoptera, ii, 117_ 

 23. G. rockinghamensis Zimm., MS. Dr. Ziramermann mentions in 

 his MS. that he found this species in schools of several thousands, in ponds 

 at Rockingham, North Carolina. I have translated the description from his 

 notes. 



Species not identified. 



(Jr. impressicollis Kirby, Fauna Bor. Am. iv, 79. Mr. Adam White, 

 B. M. Cat. 45, refers this to G. borealis Aube, but the great size, unless an 

 error of print, (4 lines, = 8-3 mm.) renders such reference very improbable. 



G. Sayi Aitb^ Hydroc. 698. See remarks under No. 17. 



G. fuscipes Motsch. MwW. Mosc. 1859, ii, 173. California; perhaps G. 

 cohsobrinus Lee* 



Gyretes BruU6. 



1. G. s i n u a t u s, elongate oval, very convex, dark bronzed, very shining ; 

 sides of prothorax and elj'tra densely punctured and pubescent, punctures 

 reaching the suture; tip of elytra broadly and obliquely truncate, outline of 

 the truncation very slightly but distinctly sinuate, outer angle distinct, 

 slightly prominent, infiexed margins ferruginous; body beneath and legs 

 ferruginous, breast and base of abdomen darker. Long. 6 mm. Lee. Anu. 

 Lye. Nat. Hist., New York, v, 210. 



Abundant in the Colorado River, near Fort Yuma, California. 



2. G. c o m p r e s s u s, still more elongate, and more convex than the pre- 

 ceding, and more narrowed in front than behind, dark bronzed, shining ; sides 

 of prothorax and elytra densely punctured and pubescent, punctures not 

 quite reaching the suture ; tip broadly and obliquely truncate and very feebly 

 sinuate, outer angle obtuse, distinct, slightly prominent, inflexed margins 

 black ; body beneath dark brownish red. feet and tip of abdomen paler. Long. 

 675 mm. Lee, New Spec, North Am. Col,, (Smith's Inst.) 23, 



One specimen collected at Quiacy, Illinois, by Mr. Willcox. 



Notes on the Species of AGONODERUS, BRADYCELLUS and STENOLOPHUS in- 

 habiting America north of Mexico. 



BY JOHN L. LE CONTE, M. D. 



The final demolition of the genus Acupalpus Dej. seems to have been accom- 

 plished by Baron Chaudoir, in his recent notes upon North American Cara- 

 bid;Te,-j- by the reference of most of the species contained in my third division 

 of StenolophusJ to A(jonoderus. In fact, his suggestion is so perfectlj' natural, 

 that it is strange that the resemblance in form and sculpture, and in the pro- 

 portion of the joints of the hind tarsi, with the absence of sexual characters in 

 the front tarsi, did not lung since cause these species to be placed in the proper 

 position to which he has assigned them. 



In reviewing the specimens of my collection with the aid of the remarks of 

 my learned friend, I have found such resemblances in form between the species 



* Mr. Uhler has sent me a portion of a large school of Gyrinus, collected in Charles 

 Kiver, near Cambridge, Mass., which shows that in some eases at least the speeie.s do not 

 live apart. An examination of all the individuals captured has given me the following 

 results : — 



G. 1 imbat u s, 4cr, 5?. G, fraternus, 2cf, 2$. 



G. d i c h r o u s, 5cf (59. G. p ici p e s ? uace), 5cf 39. 



G. confinis, \2^ 7$. G.lugens, 18cf 4?. 



I have observed at Lake Superior, however, that the species are generally not found 

 intermixed, 

 t Uevue et Mag. de Zoologie, 1808. 

 J Vide List of Coleoptera, North .\m., p. 13. 



1868.] 




374 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



of the three genera above named, that a brief synopsis of the distinguishing 

 characters of those which I have investigated seems to me to be useful for the 

 proper naming of the specimens contained in local cabinets. 



I may also add that the determinations of Baron Chaudoir, who is the fortu- 

 nate possessor of the Dejeanian types, must be taken as conclusive, regarding 

 the species of that author ; the original descriptions were unfortunately defec- 

 tive in some respects, and my recognition of his species was therefore erro- 

 neous. 



In all the species mentioned in this synopsis, except Bradycellus d i c h r o u s, 

 vulpeculus and a u t u m n a 1 i s, the marginal line limiting the bead of the 

 prothorax is obliterated for a greater or less extent at the middle of the base, 

 but in those three species it is entire, as in the true Harpali, with which, per- 

 haps, they should more properly be associated. 



AGONODERUS Dej. 



In the species of this genus the emargination of the mentum is less semicir- 

 cular in outline than in Stenolophus, but equally destitute of any vestige of a 

 tooth ; the sides of the emargination are more oblique and the bottom there- 

 fore narrower, like a broadly rounded angle ; the body is rather stouter and 

 more convex, the joints of the antenna; thicker, the hind tibiaj and tarsi less 

 slender, the joints 1 — 4 of the latter diminishing in length less rapidly, the 

 front tibiae stouter and more strongly spinose near the tip, and finally the front 

 tarsi are alike in form in both sexes and in the more slender species thinly 

 clothed with a few papillas. 



Our species, all but one of which, as far as known, are represented in my 

 collection, diminish gradually in size, and may be grouped as follows, the dor- 

 sal puncture being wanting only in A. infuscatus: 



A. Body stouter and more convex : prothorax transverse, quadrate-oval. 



a. Hind angles of prothorax very much rounded. 



7 — 8-5 mm. Pale yellow above ; prothorax with two discoidal spots ; scu- 

 tellar stria long; elytra with two dark stripes separated by the sutural inter- 

 val; dorsal puncture distinct 1. 1 i n e o 1 a. 



6-5 mm. Dark testaceous or piceous, narrow margin of prothorax and 

 broader one of elytra pale; scutellar stria shorter; dorsal puncture want- 

 ing 2. i n f u s c at u s. 



b. Prothorax nearly quadrate ; hind angles obtuse, slightly rounded ; sides 

 less rounded. 



8 mm. Pale yellow ; head behind the eyes black, with an occipital round 

 yellow spot; prothorax with two discoidal oval black spots; base finely and 

 not densely punctured ; elytra with two dark stripes, as in lineola ; scutellar stria 

 long. (Differs from lineola chiefly by the form of the prothorax.) California, 

 and Nevada 3. maculatus, n. sp. 



B. Body more elongate, less convex ; prothorax scarcely wider than long ; 

 subtrapezoidal, being more or less distinctly narrowed behind ; elytra with one 

 dorsal puncture. 



a. Larger species ; color pale; elytra with a wide black stripe, divided by 

 the suture ; disc of prothorax frequently with a large black spot ; head always 

 black. 



5.5 — 6 mm. Hind angles of prothorax rounded ; scutellar stria long. 



4. comma. 



5.5 — 7 mm. Bind angles of prothorax scarcely rounded ; scutellar stria 

 short 5. p al lipes. 



7 mm. Sides of prothorax subsinuate behind ; hind angles rounded : scu- 

 tellar stria short? (interrupted in the only specimen I have seen) ; hind tarsi 

 stouter ih&n\n palUpes. California 6. r u g i c o 1 1 i s. 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 375 



b. Smaller species. 



* Head black ; scutellar stria distinct. 



3-5 — 4 mm. Prothorax pale ; hind angles much rounded ; basal impres- 

 sions with a few coarse punctures ; elytra with a broad, dusky stripe or cloud, 

 divided by the sutural interval ; body dusky beneath 7. partiarius. 



3 — 3-25 mm. Very similar to p a r t i a r i u s, but smaller, with the basal im- 

 pressions less marked, and still more sparsely punctured ; elytra dusky, with 

 the suture and margins pale ; prothorax pale above and beneath ; trunk al- 

 ways and abdomen usually dusky 8. pauper cuius. 



3 — 4 mm. Equal in size io partiarius, but narrower, with the sides of the 

 prothorax not rounded behind, but even feeblj' subsinuate ; the hind angles 

 are, however, rounded, the disc marked with a large, quadrate, blackisli spot ; 

 elytra blackish, with the suture and margin testaceous; scutellar stria longer 

 than in partiarius 9. i n d i s t i n c t u s. 



** Head pale, of the same color as the prothorax; body testaceous or fer- 

 ruginous beneath, not blackish ; scutellar stria short or wanting. 



2-5 — 3 mm. Prothorax with the hind angles much rounded ; basal impres- 

 sions faint, marked with a few large punctures; elytra with the scutellar stria 

 punctiform ; disc sometimes with a faint dusky cloud 10. t e s t a c e u s. 



2-75 mm. Of the same size and form as the preceding, with the scutellar 

 stria distinct though short, not punctiform 11. micros. 



Bibliography and remarks. 



1. A. lineola Dej.^ Sp. Gen., iv, 51; Garahus lineola Fabr., Ent. Syst., i, 

 155; Syst. EL, i, 197 ; Oliv., 35, 78, pi. 7, f. 75; Feronia lineola Say, Tr. Am. 

 Phil. Soc, ii, 37; ed. Lee, ii, 464; L'arabus farcatus Fabr., Ent. Syst., i, 164 ; 

 Syst. El., i, 206, (var. thorace immac.) 



Carabus comma Fabr. cannot be referred to this specis, as is erroneously 

 stated in the Melsheimer Catalogue and thence copied into my List, since it is 

 described as having the head black. 



2. A. infuscatus Dej., Sp. Gen., iv. 54; suturalis Lee, Ann. Lye. New 

 York, iv, 373. 



4. A. CO m m a. Carabus comma Fabr., Ent. Syst., 1, 165 ; Syst. EL, i, 207 ; 

 Feronia pallipes Say, Trans. Am. Phil. Soc, ii, 38 ; ed. Lee, ii, 465 ; A. paUipes 

 Dej , Sp. Gen., iv, 53; A. dorsalis Lee, Ann. Lye N. York, iv, 373.* 



*The MS. descriptions and remarks of Dr. Zimmermann upon this and the nextspecies 

 are so important that I have translated them : 



" A. c o m ni a. Abundant iu tlie Northern States ; 2% — .3)^ lines long. 



" .\ltogetlier similar to A. p al 11 pe s in form and color, and usually confounded with 

 it; differs in the marking of tlie elytra, upon eaoh of which there is a black stripe, so that 

 the suture remains yellow; this stripi^ extends from the first to the fifth stria, and is com- 

 monly abbreviated in front, sometimes, however, attaining the base, but never the suture. 

 The dorsal spot of the prothorax is sometimes wanting; the hind angles are somewhat 

 more obtuse, and the scutellar stria of the elytra longer than in the next species. 



"A. pal 1 ipe s. Abundant in the Southern States ; 2 — 3 lines long. 



" Body elongated, not very convex, testaeci ms ; mouth, palpi, base of antennie, feet and 

 anus reddish-yellow; under surface and iiend lilaek ; a large black or brown spot on the 

 middle tit tlie prothorax, and a broad lilaek stripe on the elytra, which extends from the 

 suture to the fourth stria, pointed in front and reaching the scutellum. Head with deep 

 frontal impressions and moderately large eyes ; prothorax narrowed behind; hind mar- 

 gin and shallow basal impressions thicdvly punctured; hind angles rather obtuse than 

 rounded ; elytra wtth deep, smooth striiB, short scutellar stria and a distinct posterior 

 dorsal puncture upon the second stria. 



" Vi'eniaW.s.— It is iiliviously this sjiecies and not the preceding which Fabricius des- 

 cribed from the Hunterian cnlleetion. This is apparent, n )t only ni the words 'Coleoptera 

 nigra limlto pallido,'but also by the descrijition and figure given by (Jlivier under the same 

 name, with the additional remark that the iuseet was found in ("aroliuu. A. /> tllijirsDe}. is' 

 aniitlier species which is found in the Nnrtheru .States, and descrilieii liy Faljrieius under 

 the name Cn: comma in the fcjllowing words: ' Elytr.i grisea, macula lineari nigra versus 

 snturam." The specimen of Caruhns pallipes in the Fabrician cabinet is a Cymiudis varit- 

 gata Dej,, according to Schanm, Stettin Ent.. Zcitung, 1847, 47. 



1868.] 




376 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



5. A. p a 1 1 i p e s />^c, Ann. Lye. N. York, iv, 373 ; Carabus pallipea Fabr., 

 Ent. Syst., i, 159; Syst. EL, i, 200; Oliv., 35, 121, pi. 9, f. 99; A. Leconlei 

 Chaud., Rev. and Mag.' Zool., 1868. 



6. A. r 11 g i c o 1 1 i s Lee, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., Phil., 1859, 83. 



I. A. p a r t i a r i u s Chaud., Rev. and Mag. Zool., 1868 ; Tiechus part Say, 

 Trans. Am. Phil. Soc, ii, 90 ; ed. Lee, ii, 504. Dr. Zimraermann believed 

 that he recognized in this species Carabus celer Oliv., 35, 114, pi. 14, f. 168, to 

 which tlie locality " Paris " was incorrectly given ; he supposed that the speci- 

 men was found in Carolina by Bosc, from whose collection it was described. 



8. A p a u p e r c u 1 u s Chaud., Rev. and Mag. Zool., 1868 ; Acupaljms paup. 

 Dcj., Sp. Gen., iv, 463, Ac. con.mnilis Dej., ibid., iv, 465. 



9. A. indistinctus Chaud., Rev. and Mag. Zool., 1868 ; An/palpus ind. 

 Dej., Sp. Gen., V, 846. Dr. Zimraermann determined this speciesasAc.hu- 

 m i 1 is Be/., ibid., iv, 462, which is referred by Chaudoir to Stenolophu.s •. with 

 about twelve specimens before me, I can perceive no greater sexual differences 

 than those observed in other small species of this genus; a specimen deter- 

 mined by Zimmermann as Ac. d i f f i c il i s Dej., Sp. Gen., iv, 435, does not 

 differ, except in being of a uniform pale brown color and scarcely perceptibl}- 

 more elongated. Should this synonymy be correct the species must be called 

 A. h u m i 1 i s, the specific name under which it was first published. 



10. A. t e s t a c e u s Chaud., Rev. and Mag. Zool., 1868 ; Acupalpus test. Dej., 

 Sp. Gen., iv, 460. 



II. A. m i c r o s Lee, Ann. Lye. N. York, iv, 412. My description mentions 

 the only distinguishing character between this and the preceding, which is, 

 that the scutellar stria, though sliort, is quite obvious. 



STEXOLOPHUS Dej. 



Ill this genus the raentum is semicircularly emarginate, without median 

 tooth ; the front and middle tarsi of the male are dilated, and furnished beneath 

 with two rows of squamiform papilla?. The form of the dilated joints enables 

 the species to be divided into natural groups. Until the male is known, it is 

 somewhat difficult to decide whether some of the smaller species should be re- 

 ferred to this genus or to Ajonoderus ; but in doubtful cases, in the absence of 

 specimens with dilated front tarsi, I have referred to Stenolophus all those in 

 which the first and second joints of the hind tarsi are much longer than the 

 tiiird and fourth ; in other words, those in which the hind tarsi are more slen- 

 der, and the joints'^diminish in length more rapidly than in Ayonoderus. 



Our S]jecies may be grouped as follows : 



A. Body rather stout, prothorax but little narrower than thr elytra; front 

 and middle tarsi of nule broadly dilated ; fourth joint very deeply bilobed ; 

 .scutellar stria long. 



a. Sides of prothorax broadly flattened, scarcely reflexed. 



75 mm. Black, not very shining ; 1st joint of antennie, tibi:e and tarsi 

 brownish 1. c a r b o n a r i u s. 



b. Sides of prothorax less broadly flattened, more strongly reflexed. 



65 mm. Piceous black, shining; base of antenna?, margin of prothorax, 

 epij)leuriB and feet brown ; basal impressions of thorax feebly and sparsely 

 punctured 2. s p r e t u s. 



c. Prothorax narrowly margined, margin not reflexed. 



6-5 — 7 mm. Piceous with brassy lustre, margins of thorax and elytra tes- 

 taceous, base of antenii;e and feet more or less brown ; prothorax subquadrate ; 

 .basal angles nearly rectangular, rounded at tip, impressions finely punctured 

 and rugose •. 3. 1 i m b a 1 i s. 



7 — 7-5 ram. Black, shining, elytra piceous or testaceous, slightly iridescent, 

 base of antennis and feet more or less testaceous or brown ; prothorax feebly 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 377 



narrowed behind, hind angles obtuse rounded, basal impressions with a few 



scattered punctures, bead of lateral margin pale 4. fuliginosus. 



5-5 mm. Black shining, base of antennae and feet ferruginous, elytra slightly 

 iridescent, margin brown ; prothorax with the lateral bead brown, feebly nar- 

 rowed behind, hind angles much rounded, basal impressions rounded, impunc- 

 tured 5 pie b ej u s. 



3-5 — 4-5 mm. Smaller, piceous shining, sides of elytra and disc of protho- 

 rax frequently ferruginous, base of antennae and feet ferruginous ; prothorax 

 feebly narrowed behind, hind angles very much rounded, not at all apparent ; 

 basal impressions small, rounded, feebly impressed, impunctured, 



6. c o n j u n c t u s. 



4-5 mm. Similar to co?iJunctus, but narrower; black shining, margins of 

 prothorax and elytra brown, base of antennae and feet ferruginous ; prothorax 

 scarcely wider than long, not narrowed behind, hind angles much rounded, not 

 at all apparent, basal impressions punctiform 7. r o t u n d a t u s. 



B. 



Body more slender, prothorax evidently narrower than the elytra, front tarsi 

 of male moderately dilated, 4th joint deeply bilobed, middle tarsi of male not 

 dilated ; elytra with long scutellar stria, more or less iridescent ; base of an- 

 tennae and feet pale ; hind angles of prothorax obtuse rounded. 



a. Elytra more finely striate, middle tarsi of male with two rows of squami- 

 form papillae. (Pacific species.) 



* Striae deeper towards the tip. 

 6 mm. Blackish, with the margins paler ; prothorax wider than long, 

 scarcely narrowed behind, br.sal impressions broad, very feebly punctured. 



8. a n c e ps 

 6-5 mm. Elytra black, with narrow pale margin ; prothorax scarcely wider 

 than long, narrowed behind, basal impressions faint, feebly punctured, disc 

 yellow, with a large, somewhat bi-lobed black spot (el^'tral stri;e deeper than 



in the preceding and next species) 9. c i n c t i c o 1 1 i s. 



** Striae not deeper towards the tip. 

 4-5 — 5-27 mm. Beneath and head blackish, antennae, feet, prothorax and 

 elytra testaceous ; prothorax wider than long, narrowed behind, basal im- 

 pressions narrow, not punctured; elytra with a faint dusky cloud behind the 

 middle 10. uuicolor 



b. Elytra more deeply- striate, stri;? deeper towards the tip, middle Uirsi of 

 male without rows of squamiform papillae. 



8-5 mm. Larger, blackish, with the margins paler ; prothorax wider than 

 long, with the basal impressions broad, finely punctured 11. f 1 a v i p e s. 



5-5 — 5-75 mm. Smaller, blackish, narrow margins paler, prothorax scarcely 

 wider than long, basal impressions broad, spaisely but less finely punctured. 



12. ochropezus. 



5-5 — 7 mm. Prothorax testaceous, hind angles more rounded, basal im- 

 pressions sparsely punctured ; elytra iridescent black, with very wide testaceous 

 side margin 13. d i s s i m il is. 



C. 



Small species of elongate form ; front tarsi of (^ moderately dilated, fourth 

 joint deeply emarginate, middle tarsi feebly dilated, with two rows of squami- 

 form papillae ; elytra with long scutellar stria, base of antenna; and feet pale ; 

 hind angles of prothorax obtuse or subrectangular, less rounded than in B. 



a. Elytra with but one dorsal puncture, as usual, on the second stria ; hind 

 angles of prothorax obtuse, somewhat rounded ; frontal suture more 

 distinct than usual. 



1868.J 25 




378 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



3 mm. Head narrower than the prothorax, and almost as long; color 

 scarcely brown, elytra darker, slightly iridescent, prothorax trapezoidal, but 

 little broader than long, narrowed behind, rounded on the sides only before 

 the middle ; basal impressions broad, feebly punctured ; eyes not prominent. 



14. h y d r o p i c u s. 



2-5 — 3 mm. Head more distinctly narrower than the prothorax, with larger 



and more prominent eyes, otherwise quite similar to kydropicus, but more 



elongate and less convex; color variable, but the head is always dark and the 



elytra iridescent 15. c a r u s. 



b Elytra with several dorsal punctures ; hind angles of prothorax rectan- 

 gular, not rounded. 



4 mm. Elongate, more depressed, head blackish, prothorax pale, with a 

 large quadrate dusky spot ; anterior transverse impression deeply marked, 

 basal impressions broad, rugosely punctured ; elytra pale, with a broad dorsal 

 vitta divided by the suture and abbreviated at each end; dorsal punctures 3. 

 Georgia, one specimen 16. flavilimbus, n. sp. 



3 5 mm. Smaller and less depressed ; head blackish, prothorax testaceous, 

 basal impressions deeper, feebly punctured, elytra dusky, with the suture, base 

 and margin testaceous ; dorsal punctures 3 17. longulus. 



3 — 3-25 mm. Still smaller, prothorax as long as wide, with the sides still 

 more subsinnate behind, and the hind angles more prominent; basal im- 

 pressions deep, punctured ; color brown or blackish, paler at the margins ; 

 dorsal punctures 4 18. rectangulus. 



D. 



Body more elongate and linear than in any of the preceding species : head 

 as wide and nearly as long as the prothorax ; front tarsi of (^ moderately 

 dilated, 4th joint bllobed, middle tarsi slightly dilated ; prothorax narrowed 

 behind, with flattened rectangular angles ; elytra with long scutellar stria ; 

 palpi longer and more pointed than in the other groups of Philodes Lee. 



a. Elytra each with three distinct rows of dorsal punctures. 



4-25 mm. Testaceous, head and part of elytra dusky; basal impressions 

 of prothorax large, deep, not punctured ; body depressed ; eyes small. 



19. a 1 1 e r n a n 3. 



b. Elytra with the rows of dorsal punctures obsolete, only the posterior 

 puncture of the second stria obvious. 



4-25 mm. Dark brown, prothorax paler, with the basal impressions less 

 deep, but also not punctured ; body less depressed, eyes larger aud more 

 prominent 20. t e n e r. 



Bibliography and Re7narks. 



1. S. carbonarius BrulU, h^c. Ann. Lye. N. York, iv, 409 ; Harpalus 

 carb. Dej., Sp. Gen. iv, 398. 



2. S. spretus DeJ., Sp. Gen. v, 845. 



3. S. 1 i ra b a 11 s Lee, Rep. Pac. R. R. Surv., xi, 2, Ins. 28: S. indistinctus 

 Motsch. Bull. Mosc, 1859, 2, 134. 



4. S. f u 1 i g i n o s u s Dej., Sp. Gen., iv. 423 ; Lee. Ann. Lye. N. York, iv, 

 410 ; iS. versicolor Kirby, Faun. Bor. Am., iv, 4G ; S. Juscipennis Lee, Ann. 

 Lye, N. York, iv, 410. 



5. S. p 1 eb ej u s Dej., Sp. Gen., iv, 424 ; var. immat. S. fuscatus Dej., ibid. 

 426. 



6. S. CO n j u n c t u s Lee, Ann. Lye, N. York, iv, 410 ; Trechus conj. Say, 

 Trans. Am. Phil Soc, ii, 90, ed. Lee. ii, 504 ; Acupalpvs miseUus Dej., Sp. Gen. 

 iv, 467 ; Ac rotundicoUis Hald., Proc. Acad. Nat. Sc, Phil , i, 302 ; Ac lugubris, 

 Hald., ibid., i, 302. Found from the Atlantic to the Pacific. 



7. S. rotundatus Lee, New. Sp. Col., (Smiths. Inst.), 17. 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 379 



8. S. an c e p s Zee, Pac. R. R. ExpL, xi, 2. 28 ; S. rotundicollis Motsch. Bull. 

 Mosc. 1859, ii, 135. 



9. S. c i n c t i c 1 1 i s Lee, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sc, Phil., 1858, 60. 



10. S. unicolor DeJ., Sp. Gen., iv. ^11; Mannh. Bull. Mosc, 1843, 214. 



11. S. flavipes Lee. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sc, 1858, 60. 



12. S. ochropezus Dej'., Sp. Gen., iv, 424; Feronia ochr. Say, Trans. 

 Am. Phil. Soc, ii, 54 ; S. convexicolUs Lee, Ann. Lye, N. York, iv, 404. 



13. S. d i s s i m i 1 i s Dej., Sp. Gen., iv, 424. 



14. S. h y d r p i c u s Lee, New Spec. Col. (Smiths. Inst.), 17. 



15. S. c ar u s Lee, ibid., 18. 



17. S. longulus Lee, List Col. N. Am., 13; Acupalpus long. Dej., Sp. 

 Gen., iv, 459. 



18. Acupalpus rectangulus Chaud., Rev. and Mag. Zool., 1868. 



19. S. a 1 1 e r n a n s Lee, Trans. Am. Phil. Soc, x, 386 ; Badister testaceui\\ 

 Leo. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sc, Phil., ii, 252 ; Aepus test. Lee Ann. Lye, N. York, 

 iv, 413, Philodes alt. Lee, Class. Col. N.Am., 1, 33. 



20. S. tener Lee, Pac. R. R. Expl., xi, 2, Ins. 29; Philodes tener Lee, 

 Class. Col. N. Am., i, 33. 



BRADYCELLUS Er. 



The elytra are obliquely but feebly sinuate at tip, and never subtruncate 

 as in the species of Stenolophus. 



This genus contains both large and very small species, and, like Stenolo- 

 phus, may be divided into groups according to the dilatation of the male tarsi ; 

 it may be distinguished from the other two genera by the mentum being 

 armed with a large acute tooth, though in some of the smaller species it is 

 sometimes difficult to perceive this character without the aid of a compound 

 microscope ; and even then the tooth is sometimes rendered less apparent, 

 when the ligula is extended, by the basal portion of that organ ; I believe, 

 however, that I have by careful examination satisfied myself of the existence 

 of the mentum-tooth in all of the species which I now refer to the genus. 



Some of the smaller species of division B closely resemble in appearance 

 Agonoderus, but may be usually known by the more slender antennye and 

 hind tarsi, and by the much shorter scutellar stria, which is sometimes in 

 fact entirely wanting ; a reference to the mentum, to verify the proper 

 character belonging to the genus, should be always made in doubtful cases. 



Baron Chaudoir regards the 1st division as constituting a distinct genus, 

 Tachycellus Moravitz, but in view of the sexual differences observed in 

 Stenolophus, I am scarcely prepared to adopt his opinion ; I prefer there- 

 fore, for the present, to group the species as follows : 



A. Front tarsi of male moderately dilated, middle tarsi less dilated, with 

 two rows of squamiform papillae beneath ; elytra with a long scutellar stria. 



a. Basal bead of prothorax well defined for its whole extent. 



10 — 11 mm. Ferruginous, elytra black, iridescent, deeply striate ; prothorax 

 scarcely narrowed behind, sides broadly rounded and widely depressed, hind 

 angles obtuse, somewhat rounded ; base finely punctured. ... 1. d i c h r o u s. 



9 — 10 mm. Color as in the preceding; prothorax narrowed behind, sides 

 rounded in front, oblique behind ; hind angles scarcely rounded ; base finely 

 punctured; basal impressions more strongly marked 2. vulpeculus. 



8 mm. Black ; prothorax narrowed behind with small basal impressions, 

 hind angles obtuse, not rounded ; antenn* and feet ferruginous. 



3. autumnal! s. 



b. Basal line of prothorax interrupted or nearly obliterated at the middle. 



5 — 6 mm. Blackish ; bead of prothorax pale ; elytra piceous or dark tes- 

 taceous ; body more slender; protborax distinctly narrowed behind; hind 

 angles obtuse rounded ; basal impressions well marked, sparsely punctured ; 

 legs ferruginous, thighs and tips of tibiae sometimes darker; 1st joint of an- 

 tennae pale 4. b a d i i p e n n i 8. 



1868.] 




380 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



7 mm. Black ; prothorax and elytra testaceous, the former with a large 

 quadrate blacK spot, the latter with a dusky cloud divided by \he suture ; 

 body slender ; prothorax distinctly narrowed behind ; hind angles subrec- 

 tangular, slightly prominent, not rounded ; basal impressions broad, punc- 

 tured ; antenna} with joints 1 — 3 testaceous, legs testaceous. 



5. atrimedius. 



4-5 mm. Smaller, slender, ferruginous, upper surface pale, with the head 

 and disc of elytra somewhat darker ; prothorax distinctly narrowed behind ; 

 hind angles subrectangular, slightly prominent, not rounded ; basal impres- 

 sions broad punctured; antennae with the joints I — 3 or 4 paler. 



6. nebulosus. 



5-5 — 6 5 mm, Black, shining, not iridescent; prothorax with the hind 

 angles rectangular ; basal impressions linear, strongly marked, smooth, or 

 scarcely punctured ; anterior transverse impression distinct, strongly angu- 

 lated ; upper part of tibia; and 1st joint of antennae dark testaceous. 



1. ni g r i n u s. 



5 mm. Smaller than nigrimis, with the hind angles of prothorax distinctly 

 obtuse, but not rounded ; otherwise not different ; perhaps only an individual 

 variation 8. tibialis. 



B. 



Species of small size with the scutellar stria very short, or altogether 

 wanting ; front tarsi of male moderately dilated, middle tarsi not dilated nor 

 furnished with squamiform papilliB. 

 a. Striae of elytra perfect. 



* Head finely and sparsely punctured behind. 



5 mm. Black or piceous shining; prothorax wider than long, slightly 

 narrowed behind, much rounded on the sides ; hind angles rounded ; basal 

 impressions well marked, feebly punctulate ; elytra with the humeri and 

 sometimes the sides paler brown ; base of antennae brown... 9. axillaris. 



4-5 — 5 mm. Blackish, with the first joint of antennae, feet and elytra more 

 or less testaceous ; prothorax at^ tip and base sparse punctured, formed as 

 in the preceding, but less rounded at the sides and hind angles; basal im- 

 pressions well marked ; elytra (when pale marked with a dusky dorsal cloud, 

 when dark, with the suture and sides paler,) thinly clothed with short pubes- 

 cence near the sides and tip ; intervals usually sparsely and distinctly punc- 

 tured at the sides, base and tip ; (a. larger aud broader, testaceous, trunk 

 dusky; elytra scarcely punctulate, B. nitens Lee.) 10. cognalus. 



* * Head not punctulate ; basal impressious of prothorax feeble. 

 f Basal impressions of prothorax smooth. 



5 mm. Black, 1st joint of antennae and feet testaceous yellow ; prothorax 

 much ro\inded on the sides, slightly narrowed behind ; hind angles obtuse, 

 scarcely rounded ; basal impressions very feeble ; scutellar stria entirely 

 wanting 11. c o r d i c o 11 i s. 



■j- -j- Basal impressions of prothorax punctulate ; scutellar stria represened 

 by a puncture at the base of the 2d stria. Body elongate. 



4 — 4 5 mm. Dark reddish testaceous, trunk black, antennae with first two 

 joints pale ; prothorax a little wider than long, narrower behind, sides ob- 

 lique near the base, but not sinuate ; hind angles obtuse, almost rounded, not 

 at all prominent ; basal impressions broad, shallow, sparsely punctured ; (only 

 differs from the next by the hind angles of the thorax not being prominent, 

 and is probably a race of ib.) 12. congener. 



4 — 4-5 mm. Usually testaceous, sometimes piceous, with pale margins ; 

 Vjase of antennae and feet yellow ; prothorax a little wider than long, nar- 

 rowed behind ; sides subsinuate very near the hind angles, which are obiuse 



[Pee 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 381 



nat rounded and slightly prominent ; basal impressions broad, shallow, 

 strongly punctured 13. rupeetris. 



4 — 4-25 mm. Blackish, margins brownish, feet and first two joints of 

 antenna; yellow ; prothorax as in rupestris, from which this species differs 

 only by its darker color and more elongated form, and of which it seems to 

 me to be a race 14. pa ral 1 e lu s. 



3-75 mm. Smaller, pale testaceous, metasternum and small elytral cloud 

 dusky ; prothorax nearly as wide as long, narrowed behind ; sides obliquely 

 subsinuate behind the middle; hind angles rectangular, not at all rounded ; 

 basal impressions broad, sparsely and finely punctured 15. rivali s. 



3-75 mm. Less elongate than the others of this group ; black, prothorax, 

 elytra and feet testaceous ; antennas brown, witii first 2 joints pale ; prothorax 

 wider than long, more narrowed behind ; sides scarcely sinuate near the base, 

 hind angles obtuse, very slightly prominent ; basal impressions feeble, with 

 a few punctures ; eyes smaller and less prominent than usual. New Jersey 

 and Virginia, two specimens 16. n i g r i c e p s, n. sp. 



3 mm. More elongate, black or piceous ; antenna? and feet testaceous ; 

 the former sometimes brown, with two basal joints pale ; prothorax but little 

 wider than long, narrowed behind ; sides scarcely sinuate near the base ; 

 hind angles obtuse, slightly prominent ; basal impressions broad, sparsely 

 punctured; eyes large, prominent.. 17. tantillus. 



3 — 3-25 mm. Same form and color as the last, from which it differs only 

 hy the sides of the prothorax being distinctly subsinuate behind the middle 

 and the hind angles nearly rectangular, not rounded, and somewhat promi- 

 nent ; the basal impressions are larger and more punctured ; eyes large and 

 prominent; antennae brown, first two joints and feet testaceous. 



18. c al i f r n i c u s. 



3-25 mm. Same form as the two preceding, but differing by the prothorax, 

 the sides of which are obliquely rounded behind the middle, and the hind 

 angles obtuse and rounded ; basal impressions less deep, sparsely punctured : 

 feet testaceous ; antenna? dark piceous ; first two joints testaceous. 



19. n e g 1 e c t u s. 



b. Stria of elytra effaced, except the sutural one, which is deep ; body 

 rather stout and convex ; prothorax not narrowed behind ; sides subsinuate 

 behind the middle ; hind angles rectangular ; basal impressions very feeble. 



4-5 — 6-5 mm. Varies from testaceous to greenish black with a bronzed 

 reflection; first two joints of antennae and feet testaceous. Traces of a long 

 scutellar stria are apparent in some specimens of this species, which thus 

 differs from all the others in which the middle tarsi of the male are not 

 furnished with papilUe 20. n i t i d u s. 



C. 



This division contains but a single species of very elong.ite linear form, in 

 which the eyes are much smaller and less prominent than in any other known 

 to me ; ihe prothorax much longer than wide, somewhat narrowed behind, 

 broadly sinuate on the sides, which have the lateral bead much more 

 strongly marked than in the other species ; the basal impressions are long, 

 narrow, deep and punctured ; the hind angles rectangular ; the elytra at the 

 base are wider than the prothorax, very long and parallel, obliquely sinuate 

 and subtruncate at tip ; the stria? are deep, the scutellar is represented by a 

 large puncture, and the second stria has a dorsal puncture behind the middle. 

 The tibiie are more spinous than in the other species, and the whole appear- 

 ance of the insect is that of a small Pterostichus. The front tarsi of the male 

 are feebly dilated, the middle tarsi without papillae. 



.^(•5 ram. Black, margins brownish ; antennre brown ; first two joints and 

 feet testaceous yellow; prosternum channeled between the front coxae; 

 peduncle of meeothorax coarsely punctured 21. linearis. 



1868.] 




382 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



Bibliography and Remarks. 



1. B. dichrous Lee, Trans. Am. Phil. Soc, x, 385; Uarpalus dichrous 

 Dej., Sp. Gen., ir, 258; 27. iricolor Sa,j, Trans. Am. Phil. Soc, iv, 432, 



2. B. vnlpeculus Lee, Trans. Am. Phil. Soc, x, 385; Harpalus vulp. 

 Say, Trans. Am. Phil. Soc, ii, 30, ed. Lee, ii, 458 ; ibid, iv, 432, ed. Lee, ii, 

 545. 



3. B. autumnalis Lee, Trans. Am. Phil. Soc, x, 385 ; Feronia autumn. 

 Say, Trans. Am. Phil. Soc, ii, 48, ed, Lee, ii, 473 ; Geobcenus autumn. Lee, 

 Ann. Lye, N. York, iv, 403. 



4. B. badiipennis Lee, ibid., x, 385; Stenolophus bad. Hald., Proc. 

 Acad. Nat. Sc, Phil., i, 302 ; Geobsenus ruficrus Lee, Ann. Lye, N. York, iv, 

 4u4 ; Geobsenus lugubris Lee, ibid., iv, 405. 



5. B. atrimedius Lec.,\hi&.., x,385; Feronia atr. ^&j, Tr&ns. kxa. VhW. 

 Soc, ii, 39, ed. Lee, ii, 466 ; Trechiis similis Kirby, Faun. Bor. Am., iv, 48. 



6. B. nebulosus Lee, ibid., x, 385 ; Acupalpus suturalis || Lee, Ann. Lye, 

 N. York, iv, 411. 



7. B. nigrinus Motsch., Kiifer Russl., 22; Harpalus nigr. Dej., Sp. Gen., 

 iv, 399; Mannh. Bull. Mosc, 1843, 213, ibid., 1852, 298; Geobienus quadricollis 

 Lee, Ann. Lye, New York, iv, 405. 



8. B. t i b i a 1 i s Lee, List of Col. N. Am, 12 ; Trechus tibialis Kirby, Fauna 

 Bor. Am., iv, 46 ; Geobxnus tib. Lee, Ann. Lye, N. York, iv, 405. 



9. B. axillaris Lee, List of Col. N. Am. 12; Acupalpus ax. Mannh., 

 Bull. Mosc, 1853, 124. I received a specimen of this species from Count 

 Mnisech, under the name Ac. conjlagratus Mann., ibid., 126. 



10. B. cognatus Schiodte, Danm. El., i, 158 ; ej. Naturhist. Bidrag. Gron- 

 land, 54; Acupalpus cogn. Dej., Sp. Gen., iv, 440; Ac. longiusculus Mannh., 

 Bull. Mosc, 1853, 125 ; and B. nitens Lee, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sc, Phil., 1858, 60. 



11. B. cordicollis Geobxnus cord. Lee, Ann. Lye, N. York, iv, 406. 

 This species has been accidentally omitted in my list ofN. Am. Coleoptera. 



12. B. congener Lee, Melsh. Cat. Descr. Col., 25 ; Geobcenus cong. Lee, 

 Ann. Lye, N. York, iv, 407; B. nubifer Lee, Pr. Ac, 1858, 60, is a pale variety 

 from Arizona, having the trunk and a small dorsal elytral cloud dusky. B. 

 ventralis Lee, ibid., is a specimen with more numerous punctures at the base 

 of the prothorax. 



13. B. rupestris Lee, Mels. Cat. Descr. Col., 25; Trechus rupestr. Say, 

 Trans. Am. Phil. Soc, ii, 91, ed Lee, ii, 505; Geobxnus rup. Lee, Ann. Lye, 

 N. York, iv, 406 ; Acupalpus elongatulus Dej., Sp. Gen., iv, 457 ; Trechus flavipes 

 Kirby, Fauna Bor. Am., iv, 47 ; Stenolophus ductus Say, Trans. Am. Phil. 

 Soc, iv, 434, ed. Lee, ii, 547. 



14. B. p ar al 1 e 1 u s Chaud., Rev. et Mag. Zool , 1868 ; ? Acupalpus dcbiUpes 

 Say, Trans. Am. Phil. Soc, iv, 425, ed. Lee, ii, 548. 



15. B. r i V a 1 i s Lee, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sc, Phil., 1858, 60. 



17. B. tantillus Chaud., Rev. and Mag. Zool., 1868; Acupalpus tant. 

 Dej., Sp. Gen., iv, 46C. 



18. B. c a 1 i f o r n i c u s, Stenolophus cal. Lee, Pae R. R. Expl., xi, 2, Ins., 29. 



19. B. n e g 1 e c t u s Geobsenus negl. Lee, Ann. Lye, N.York, iv, 407; 

 Stendophus negl. Lee, Trans. Am. Phil. Soc, x, 385. 



20. B. nitidus Mannh., Bull. Mosc, 1843, 214; Acupalpus nit. Dej.; Sp. 

 Gen., iv, 474. 



21. B. 1 i n e a r i s Lee, New Spec. Col. (Smiths. Inst.), 16. 



Acupalpus symmetric us Motsch., Bull. Mosc, 1859, 2, 134. I have not 

 identified this species, but suspect it to be a Western race of B. rupestris. 



Trechus i m m u n is Kirby, Fauna Bor. Am., found in lat. 54°, I have not 

 identified; it is perhaps Stenolophus earns Lee, but the description is 

 scarcely sufficient to warrant the placing of the latter in synonymy. 



Geobasnus arenarius Lee, Ann. Lye Nat. Hist., New York, iv, 403, 

 referred by me (Trans. Am. Phil. Soc, x, 385) to Bradycellus, is proved by 

 the discovery of the t^ to belong to A m a r a, division Liocnemis. 



[Dec. 






NATUEAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. S83 



The following reports were read and referred to the Publication 

 Committee : 



KEPORT OF THE CURATORS. 



Another year lias passed with its usual addition of treasures to the Museum 

 of the Academy, which has now become, from its exceedingly crowded condi- 

 tion, rather a rich store house of materials for the use of naturalists, than a 

 convenient place of exhibition and study. A new and previously unforseen 

 incident has occurred during the year which greatly contributes to the neces- 

 sity of our seeking other quarters. A huge store, recently erected in the rear 

 of our building, so much diminishes the light from that direction, as greatly 

 to interfere with the view of objects in the museum. 



The trustees of the building fund of the Academy continue their efforts to 

 procure means to provide proper accommodations for the purposes of the 

 institution, not only suitable to its present condition, but having in view its 

 future increase, but their means are not equal to what are desirable. Having 

 obtained subscriptions from citizens of upwards of $100,000, they have select- 

 ed and purchased an ample piece of ground, in many respects well selected 

 and located, at the south-west corner of 19th and Race Sts., opposite one of 

 the finest public squares of the city. But the lot has cost upwards of $60,000, 

 and the estimates of an appropriate building approach $300,000, Mhich we see 

 bi;t little prospect of obtaining. 



Many of the subscribers to the building fund and other citizens object to 

 the location chosen, and consider that a position on Broad Street would be in 

 many respects more desirable, and especially as it would there be more in the 

 way of travel of those most interested in the institution. Admitting this view 

 to be correct, a greater difficulty in the way of accommodating the Academy 

 in this position, is the much greater value of the ground than in the locality 

 already chosen. 



Most of the members of the Academy, and numerous citizens hope and look 

 for aid from our Legislature and City Councils, in the suggested appropriation 

 of one of the Penn Bcjuares for the uses of the institution. Taking the view 

 that the Academy is virtually a public institution, of which its members are 

 the trustees, and considering the importance it is to the intellectual interests 

 of the {-ublic, it appears to us no mor than a matter of justice that the city 

 should be enabled to appropriate for the use of the Academy, what is now 

 really a useless common. It is to be hoped that the efforts now being made by 

 the Trustees of the Building Fund of the Academy, to obtain an act of the 

 Legislature to permit our City Councils to appropriate one of the Penn Squares 

 to our uses may prove successful. With such assistance, we could no doubt 

 readily obtain the additional means to erect a suitable building lor the Acade- 

 my, one which, with its stores of intellectual treasures open free to the public, 

 would become one of the most attractive features of Philadelphia. 



The Museum collection is in good condition. Our thanks are due to Messrs. 

 Isaac Burke and E. Dieftenbaugh, who have poisoned the entire American 

 Herbarium, and are now engaged in doing the same with the General Herba- 

 rium. This is a most important work, ensuring the plants against the depre- 

 dations of insects. 



Among the most important and attractive additions made to the Museum 

 during the year is the restored skeleton of the great extinct reptile Hadrosau- 

 rus, now occupying the fore part of the lower hall. The restoration is due to the 

 accomplished natural history artist B. Waterhouse Hawkins, of London, and 

 when we add that all the labor and expense attending the restoration was a 

 voluntary contribution of the gentleman, we cannot too much express our grat- 

 itude to him. 



The fine mounted specimen of the great extinct Elk, of Ireland, which has 



1868.J 26 




384 PEOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



so long been a conspicuous object in tlie Museum, and which had been on 

 deposit with the Academy, has now become its property, having been pre- 

 sented, together with other specimens of the same animal, by our fellow mem- 

 ber, Mr. Joseph A. Wright. 



In the month of December some thieves gained access to the Academy, and 

 broke open several of the mineral cases, from which they abstracted a number 

 of specimens, principally gold and precious gems. Fortunately most of the 

 specimens have been recovered, and one of the thieves was apprehended and 

 is now in prison. 



During the year, notwithstanding the Academy was closed twelve of the 

 usual visiting days, there were 65,769 visitors to the Museum. 



The following is a synopsis of the donations made in the different depart- 

 ments of the Museum during the year. 



3Iammals. — Twenty-one species, besides two small collections, were present- 

 ed by B. D. Cope, VV. M. Gabb, H. Yarnal, I. I. Hayes and W. Raborg. 



Birds.— T\^o small collections of birds and of nests and eggs, together with 

 sixteen additional specimens, were presented by E. J. Lewis, E. D. Cope, W. 

 S. Wood, J. D. Sergeant and C. S. Westcott. 



Reptiles. — Prof. E. D. Cope presented a collection of 1465 specimens of 118 

 species from Pennsylvania, Virginia and Brazil ; 40 species from Equador ; 

 four collections from Brazil, New Granada, Central America and elsewhere ; 

 and in addition, 33 species from Central America, the Rocky Mountains and 

 elsewhere. Dr. George H. Horn presented a collection of 48 specimens of 16 

 species from Arizona and California ; Dr. G. Lincecum, 104 specimens of 14 

 species of Texas ; W. M. Gabb, 10 species from Lower California and Nevada ; 

 Ed. Day, a collection in 5 jars from Equador ; and the Smithsonian Institution 

 '20 species from Guayaquil, besides 8 species of Amblystoma. Others were 

 presented by Dr. J. L. LeConte, Jos. A. Clay, C. B. Adams, C. Guillou, Dr. 

 Randall and J. C. Brevoort. 



Pishes. — Prof. Cope pi-esented two collections in 30 jars from Kansas and 

 New Granada, besides 23 species from the Potomac, the Wabash, New Jersey, 

 and elsewhere. F. Sumichrast presented a collection of 86 specimens of six 

 species from Mexico ; Dr. Geo. Davidson, 15 species irom Alaska ; and Thomas 

 Davidson, a collection from the West Indies. 



Mollusks. — Many donations of moUusca have been made through the Con- 

 chological Department, for an account of which refer to the report of its 

 Conservator. 



In addition the Academy has received a large collection of unionida and other 

 shells of the late Major LeConte, from Dr. John L. LeConte. Specimens were 

 also received from J. R. Willis, W. M. Gabb, Dr. Genth and the Smithsonian 

 Institution. 



Articulates. — A collection of upwards of 600 species of exotic eoleoptera, 

 belonging to the late Dr. Zimmerman, was presented by Drs. John L. LeConte, 

 Samuel Lewis, G. H. Horn, F. W. Lewis and Messrs. I. Lea, S. S. Haldeman 

 and E. Draper. Dr. H. C. Wood presented 19 species of phalangida; ; J. R. 

 Willis a small collection of Crustacea, from Nova Scotia ; and 14 species of 

 myriapods, crustaceans, etc., were presented by W. M. Gabb, Geo. Davidson, J. 

 L. LeConte, Edw. D. Cope, J. Lambert, H. Allen, and D. G. Briuton. 



Radiates. — Nine echinoderms were presented by W. M. Gabb, Geo. Davidson 

 and J. Adams. 



Fossils. — Especially in the department of palaeontology has the Museum of 

 the Academy increased during the year. Besides the important addition 

 mentioned in the introductory portion of the report, the following have been 

 .received. 



A collection of about 3000 specimens of 500 species of fossils from the 



[Dec. 




NATUEAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 885 



triassic, cretaceous, and tertiary formations of California, Nevada and Oregon, 

 deposited by Wm. M. Gabb. Many of the species are types described by Mr. 

 Gabb. 



A part of the Poirrier collection of remains of mammals, birds, and fishes 

 from the miocene, pliocene and post-pliocene formations of the valley of the 

 Loire, France, purchased at a cost of $700, and presented by Messrs. Samuel 

 and John Welsh, Isaac Lea, W. S. Vaux, and John Rice. 



The greater part of the skeleton of an enormous extinct saurian, described 

 by Prof. Cope, under the name of Elasmosaurus platyurus, from near Fort 

 Wallace, Kansas, presented by Dr. Theop. H. Turner. 



Two collections consisting of upwards of 1000 specimens of about 40 species 

 of teeth of sharks and other fishes, and many specimens of 16 species of ceta- 

 ceans, from the miocene formation of Charles Co., Maryland, presented by 

 Prof. Edward D. Cope. 



A collection of remains of Lrelaps and other extinct reptiles from the marls 

 of New Jersey, presented by Prof. Cope. 



A collection of tertiary and cretaceous plants from Colorado, New Mexico, 

 and Kansas, described by Lesquereux, presented by Dr. John L. Leconte. 



L. P. Wheelock presented 58 fossils of the corniferous limestone of Ohio ; 

 Col. James Greer, 33 fossils from Ohio ; and Rev. E. B. Eddy 17 fossils from 

 Iowa. 



Small collections from Ohio, Virginia, Pennsylvania, Maryland and Nova 

 Scotia and elsewhere, were presented by E. D. Cope, Dr. 0. A. Judson, W. M. 

 Gabb, John R. Willis, F. A. Randall, and Dr. J. T. Rothrock. Sixty additional 

 specimens were presented by E. D. Cope, W. M. Gabb, Dr. F. A. Hassler, J. Leidy, 

 E. R. Beadle, Dr. F. V. Hayden, Dr. J. L. LeConte, C. W. Matthews, Gen. John 

 Gibbon, R. H. Lamborn, Dr. N. R. Bradner, John Walton, W. Kohler, G. W. 

 Hall, H. R. Parker and C. W. Peale. 



Minerals. — Small collections were received from John R. Willis and C. Guillou, 

 and 40 specimens were presented by Dr. F. A. Hassler, T. D. Rand, W. S. 

 Vaux, E. Draper, T. Guilford Smith, F. Lavergne, B. S. Lyman, E. R. Beadle, 

 C). Tyson, Dr. J. Corse, Mr. Struthers, M. Phillips, T. F. .Moss, F. V. Hayden, 

 P. A. Snell, G. J. Ulex, B. A . Hoopes, Mr. Goldsmith and J. H. Claghorn. 



Botany. — A collection of California plants were presented by Dr. W. P. 

 Gibbons ; 53 plants of New Jersey and Pennsylvania were presented by J. 

 Burke and E. Ditienbaugh ; and Dr. George Engelmann, of St. Louis, present- 

 ed a copy of his Herbarium of the North American Junci. 



Comparative Anatomy. — Dr. George Davidson presented skeletons of a male 

 and female Otter, from Alaska. Dr. James L. Corse, presented a collection 

 consisting of jars of embryo mammals, specimens for the microscope, entozoa, 

 7 human skulls, casts of 4, and the skeleton of an eagle. 23 skeletons, skulls 

 and other specimens were presented by W. Bartram Snyder, I. I. Hayes, 

 Joseph Jeanes, W. S. Vaux, Edward Cope, Wm. M. Gabb, 0. N. Bryan, Prof. 

 Von Siebold, of Munich, Edw. Davis, Dr Genth, I. Lea, and E. J. Lewis. 



Miscellaneous. —Specimens were presented by Joseph Henrj^ Craven, Rev. A. 

 Grout, J. R. Willis, Wm. M. Gabb, J. B. Ellis, E. Borda, G. H. Horn, Dr. J. A. 

 McConnel, P. Crosby, S. Powell, Rev. W. E. Hunt, and the United States San- 

 itary Commission. -^ » . v. 



Respectfully submitted by Joseph Leidy, 



Chairman of the Curators. 



LIBRARIAN'S REPORT. 



The Librarian respectfully reports that the number of additions to the 

 Library from January to December, 1868, inclusive, amounts to 1323. 



Of these there were volumes, 257 ; pamphlets, 1055 ; maps, &c., 11 : Total, 

 1323. 33 were folios; 323 quartos ; 952 octavos; 4 duodecimos, and 11 maps. 



1868.] 




386 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



These were derived from tbe following sources : 



Editors, 159; Authors, 111; Societies, 636; Library Fund, 246; Wilson 

 Fund, 105; Minister Public Works, France, 9 ; Messrs. Townsend & Adams, 

 8 ; Publishers, 8 ; Geol. Survey of Sweden, 4 ; Geol. Survey of India, 5 ; Geol. 

 Survey of United Kingdom, 3 ; Treasury Department, 7 ; Navy Department, 1 ; 

 B. Westermann & Co. 1; Wm. M. Gabb, 3; Jos. Jeanes, 1; Surgeon General, 

 1 : Smithsonian Inst., 2 ; Dr. F. A. Hassler, 2 ; J. D. Sergeant, 4 ; Land Office, 

 1 ; S. S. Haldeman, 1 ; Wm. Warren, 1. 

 And were divided as follows : 



Journals, 971 ; Geology, 80 ; General Natural History, 56 ; Entomology, 39 ; 

 Botany, 28 ; Conchology, 24; Anatomy, 20; Physical Science, 17; Ornitliology, 

 17; Voyages and Travels, 15 ; Bibliography, 9; Ichthyology, 9 ; Mammalogy, 

 6 ; Herpetology, 6 ; History, 8 ; Helminthology, 3 , Mineralogy, 3 ; Chemistry, 

 1 : Medicine, 1. 



In addition to the above, eleven volumes and 113 pamphlets were presented 

 through the Conchological section, makijig the entire increase 268 volumes 

 and 1179 pamphlets, maps, charts, &c. 



The total number of volumes now in the library is 21,964. 

 During the year 79 volumes have been bound, and 60 additional volumes 

 are now in the hands of the binder. 



For expenses of binding, amounts paid for books, salaries, &c., reference is 

 made to the report of the Treasurer of the Academy. 



To the list of missing books must be added the first volume of Hewitson's 

 Exotic Butterflies, Bois-Duval and LeCoute's Lepidoptera of North America, 

 and Darwin's Journal of Researches in the Beagle, edition of 1845. Although 

 search and inquiry have been made for these works, no information regarding 

 their whereabouts has as yet been obtained. The loss of the first named is 

 particularly unfortunate, as it breaks the suite of a valuable illustrated work, 

 each volume of which is worth about $25.00 in gold. 



The Conchological department is so comparatively complete in itself that 

 it is proposed as an experiment to number the works contained therein, with 

 a view to extending the arrangement to the general library, if, after sufficient 

 experience, it be found to be as beneficial as is anticipated. There is little 

 doubt that the numbering of the books consecutively on the shelves and in 

 the catalogues will greatly facilitate reference, while it will, it is hoped, tend 

 to prevent misplacements and losses. 



Owing to the ver}^ small amount of funds anniially at the dispbsal of the 

 Library Committee, but more especially during the past year, the number of 

 books purchased for the use of the working members of the Academy has been 

 entirely inadequate to their wants. The botanical and geological liljrarics are 

 particular!}^ deficient in the more important works recently published. These 

 are mentioned especially, not because they stand alone in their imperfect con- 

 dition, but because being most constantly referred to, they should receive the 

 more immediate attention. 



Three hundred dollars are annually received from the Wilson legacj', but, 

 far from supplying the wants of the library, this amount is not sufficient to 

 pay for the continuations of the works subscribed for by Dr. Wilson himself, 

 and it has been necessary for the last two years to make up the deficiency 

 from another source. Nor will the sum of $1000.00, lately appropriated by 

 the Academy, suffice to remedy the evil but for a very short time. This will 

 be readily believed when it is known that the publication price of one work 

 alone, which is required immediatelj', is $320.00 in gold. 



The Library Fund, b}' means of which many valuable works have been ob- 

 tained, was exhausted during the past year, so that in the immediate future, at 

 all events, no such source of supply will be at hand. 



Under these circumstances the propriety of selling certain books in our pos- 

 sescion, which have no direct connection with the Natural Sciences, has 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 387 



been suggested. Some years since a large and valuable collection of French 

 Historical Documents, given to the Academy by Wm. Maclure, was thus dis- 

 posed of greatly to the advantage of the library. 



The opinion is now entertained by some of the members of the Academy, 

 that a similar disposition with similarly good results might be made of the 

 collection of works on Antiquities and the Fine Arts now in our possession. 

 This collection embraces some rare and valuable works which are practically 

 worthless to the Academy. If sold to an institution or individual interested 

 in the subjects treated by them, their usefulness would be greatly increased, 

 while means would be provided for obtaining those works which are of the 

 utmost importance to all those engaged in the study of the natural sciences. 



All of which is respectfully submitted. 



Edw. J. Nolan, 



Librarian. 



REPORT OF THE RECORDING SECRETARY. 



The Recording Secretary would beg leave to report, — 



That during the year ending November 30th, 1868, there have been elected 

 sixty-five members and twenty-one correspondents. 



The death of the following members and correspondents have been 

 announced. 



Nine members, namely : Edw. B. Grubb, Tobias Wagner, Gen. Geo. A. 

 McCall, .Mr. Thomas Earp, Mr. C. F. Hagedorn, Mr. Isaac Barton, Mr. Matthew 

 Newkirk, Mr. Jacob Gilliams. 



Four Correspondents, namely: Rev. Mr. E. Johnson, Marcel de Serres, Sir 

 David Brewster, Mr. Clot Bey. 



The number of papers contributed and ordered to be printed in the Pro- 

 ceedings and Journal during the year has been forty-nine, as follows : 



In the Proceedings thirty-six, namely : 



E. D. Cope 12 



.John Cassin 1 



Jacob Ennis 1 



George N. Lawrence 1 



Elliot Cones, M.D 2 



Tryon Reakirt 1 



Thaddeus Norris 1 



Isaac Lea 8 



Thomas Meehan 5 



T. D Rand . 1 



W. B. Butcher, M.D 1 



Alphonso Wood 1 



Joseph Leidy 11 



In the Journal three, namely : 



Isaac Lea, 1 ; Joseph Leidy, 1 ; E. D. Cope, 1. 



All of which is respectfully submitted. 



S. B. Howell, 



Rec. Sec'y. 



REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON HERPTOLOGY AND 

 ICHTHYOLOGY. 



The Committee on Herpetology and Ichthyology respectfully reports : 

 That there has been added to that part of the Museum under its care the 

 following collections of Reptiles in Alcohol. 



Duplicates of the collections made for the Smithsonian Institution in Vera 

 Cruz, Mexico, by Francis Sumichrast, which are very extensive ; the same of 

 collections made for the same in high Guatemala, by Henry Hague ; same of 

 collections made in Yucatan, Belize and Tabasco, by Schott, Parsons and 

 Berendt ; with other duplicates of collections from Central America. Dupli- 



1868.] 




OOO PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



cates of collections made in Venezuela, and at Guayaquil, by Messrs. Destruges 

 and Reeve. Duplicates also from the Smithsonian Institution from collec- 

 tions made in San Domingo, by W. Younglove ; in Navassa, by W. Raisin ; 

 and in Porto Rico, by Geo. Latimer; from San Francisco, Cal., and from 

 Vancouver's Island, made by A. W. Hewson. Also similar series from Arizona, 

 collected by Elliott Coues, M.D., and from Camp Grant in the same Territory 

 made by Dr. Canfield. 



In the same manner the Committee has received duplicates of the col- 

 lections of the Essex Institute, from Madagascar, Zanzibar and Western 

 Africa. 



There have been procured by exchange the large collections made by the 

 Orton Expedition to Equador and the Upper Amazon ; also collections from 

 the Cape of Good Hope, the Seychelle Islands, and from Surinam by exchange 

 with the Historical Society of Long Island. 



By presentation the Committee has obtained a fine collection from Beyrut, 

 Syria, which also embraced mammals and other objects; similar collections 

 from Bahia, Brazil ; one from Central America, and two from unusual local- 

 ities in New Grenada. Collections also from California and Lower California, 

 and from Owen's Valley on the boundaries of Nevada. Also smaller collec- 

 tions from Australia, Africa, Persia and other places in Asia. 



Of fishes there have been also numerous additions made to the charge of 

 the Committee. They have not received much in this department by the du- 

 plicates of other museums, but have been chiefly dependent on presentation. 

 In this way we have acquired large series of species from the Island of St. 

 Kitts, West Indies, from St. Croix, West Indies, and from the Coasts of Alaska. 

 Also from the rivers of South Western Virginia ; from the Alleghany River 

 above Pittsburg ; from the branches of the Missouri River near Leavenworth, 

 Kas., and from the Miami River, Ohio. All these are collections of considera- 

 ble extent. 



Smaller collections have been procured from Surinam, Central America, and 

 Mexico ; also from Beyrut, Syria, and from Newport, Rhode Island. 



The above collections, embracing a great number of specimens, were sorted, 

 bottled, labelled, and classified in the Museum by the Museum Assistant, thus 

 saving a great deal of time to the Committee, and enabling them to pursue 

 scientific investigations on such and other material. 



The Committee also congratulates itself on the benefits accruing to the 

 committee's department, through the employment by the Curators of a French 

 preparateur. Exclusive of numerous preparations in the department of birds 

 and mammals, the committee have now a series of skeletons of forty species 

 of Reptiles, and eighty of Fishes, obtained at rates far lower than by any other 

 means known to the Committee. At the same time the Museum Assistant 

 has received instruction in preparing skeletons and skins, thus supplying a 

 want which the Committees department and several other departments have 

 experienced for several years past. 



Which is respectfully submitted by 



Edward D. Cope, Chairman. 

 Robert Bridges. 



REPORTS OF THE CONCHOLOGICAL SECTION. 



BECOBDER'S BEPOBT. 



During the year ending Dec. 3, 1868, there have been elected two members 

 and four correspondents. 



The death of one correspondent, Rev. E. Johnson, of Waioli, S. I., was an- 

 nounced Nov. 5, 1868. 



Thirty-five papers have been accepted for publication in the Journal, by the 

 following authors : 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 389 



Prof. 0. A. L. Morch, 1 Geo. W. Tryon, Jr., 8 



Wm. M. Gabb, 7 Dr. James Lewis, 5 



Wm. Harper Pease, 3 T. A. Conrad, 4 



Dr. J. G. Cooper, 2 S. R. Roberts, 2 



Prof. S. S. Haldeman, 1 Thomas Bland, 1 



Dr. P. P. Carpenter, 1 

 The following amendment to the By-Laws was adopted, adding to Art. X of 

 Chap. XII the words " or of the Academy ;" so as to read : " The actual date 

 of publication of any issue of the ' Journal ' shall be determined by the pub- 

 lished record of its presentation at a meeting of the Section or of the Academy," 

 Respectfully submitted, 



S. R. Roberts, Recorder. 



List of Members elected during 1868. — Mrs. Lucy W. Say, Dr. F. A. Hassler. 



Correspondents. — G. B. Sowerby (elected in 1867), London ; Rev. E. Johnson^ 

 Waioli, S. I. (deceased) ; Col. E. Jewett, Utica, N. Y. ; Dr. Ferd. Stoliczka, 

 Calcutta ; Ralph Tate, London. 



KEPORT OF THE SECBETARY. 



To the Conchological Section of the Academy of Natural Sciences, Philadelphia : 



The Secretary would respectfully report that letters have been received as 

 follows, since the last annual meeting, viz. : 



Dec. 31, 1867. — Alpheus Hyatt, Salem, Mass., in acknowledgement of elec- 

 tion as correspondent. 



Feb. 4th, 1868. — Dr. 0. A. L. Morch, Copenhagen, acknowledgement of elec- 

 tion. 



Feb. Ath, 1868. — Jabez Hogg, London, with publications forwarded. 



April 20th, 1868.— Robt. Dinwiddle, New York. Letter of thanks. 



May loth. — G. Nevill, Calcutta. Offering an exchange of specimens. 



May 15th. — Prof. S. L. Abbott, Boston. Letter of thanks. 



May 26th. — Prof. Jos. Henry, Smithsonian. Letter of acknowledgement. 



June I3th. — Prof. S. F. Baird, S. I. Letter of thanks. 



July 17th. — Dr. 0. A. L. Morch, Copenhagen. Letter of thanks. 



Oct. loth. — Dr. Ferd. Krauss, Stuttgardt. Letter of thanks. 



Letters have been written as follows, viz. : 



April 3d. — To Edmund Draper, Thomas Sparks, and G. W. Fahnestock, of 

 Philadelphia, tendering the thanks of the Section for subscriptions towards the 

 purchase of specimens. 



To Geo. Davidson, Germantown, for a fine suite of shells from Alaska. 



August nth. — To Jabez Hogg, London, requesting an exchange of publica- 

 tions. 



To G. Nevill, Calcutta, accepting proposals for an exchange, 



Nov. 2d. — To Dr. E. Von Martens, Berlin. 



To M. F. de Malgive, Bruxelles. 



To Capt. J. Mitchell, Madras. 



To M. Tasle, Pere, Varennes, France. 



To Baron de^Castello de Paiva, Lisbon. 



To M. L. de Folin, Havre. 



To M. Jules Chiron, Paris. 



To Dr. Leopold Von Schenck, St. Petersburg, desiring an exchange of publi- 

 cations. 



All of which is respectfully submitted. 



E. R. Beadle, Scc'y. 



Dec. 3d, 1868. 



1868,] 




390 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



CONSERVATOR'S REPORT. 



The Conservator of the Conchological Section respectfully reports that the 

 following donations to the Cabinet have been received during the year : 



Six hundred and sixty species of shells, principally from the collection of 

 the late Hugh Cuming and for the greater part new to the museum, were pre- 

 sented, as follows : 267 species by Jos. Jeanes, 86 by Geo. W. Tryon, Jr., 46 by 

 Thos. Sparks, 55 by Edm. Draper, 30 by C. F. Parker, 88 by Rev. E. R. Beadle, 

 45 by Isaac Lea, and by Wm. S. Vaux 42 species and a valuable specimen of 

 Cypriea iimbilicata. 

 From Dr. Jas. Lewis, seven species of fresh-water shells from the vicinity of 



Mohawk, N. Y. ; also specimens of Melantho decisa, Say ; M. rufa, Hald., and 



M. integra, Say. 

 S. R. Roberts. A suite of specimens of Anodonta fluviatilis, Soland., from 



Gray's Ferry, Philadelphia. Deformed specimens of Anodonta implicata, 



from Thorp's Dam, Philadelphia. 

 Wm. M. Gabb. About 3200 species, numerous specimens of marine, fluviatile 



and terrestrial shells. 

 Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. Fifteen species of Pupa and Vertigo, and two specimens 



of Bulimus Jaurassii, 

 John Cassin. Six species from Natal. 



J. R. Willis. Two specimens of Pecten idandicus from Nova Scotia. 

 E. R. Beadle. Fifty-five species of marine, fluviatile and terrestrial shells. 



E. Hall. Fifteen species. 



W. H. Pease. Four hundred and ninety-six species of Australasian shells, 

 principally marine. 



Spiridione Brusina. One hundred and ninety-nine species from the Adriatic 

 Sea. 



Edw. D. Cope. Six species of land shells from Western Virginia. 



Wm. G. Binney. Helix Cooperi, a unique specimen of an undescribed Helicina, 

 and jaw of Cylindrella trinitaria. 



Geo. Davidson. Sixty-six species, numerous specimens of Alaskan shells. 



Isaac Lea. Unio ligamentinus, Lam. ; U. Tappanianus, eight species of Unio 

 from North Carolina and Georgia ; Euryaelon crassn, Hald., Amnicola 

 Doicniei and three species of California fresh-water shells. 



M. McDonald. Many specimens of Helix bucculenta from Lexington, Va. 



H. Crosse. Eighty species, principally marine shells, from New Caledonia and 

 the Adriatic Sea, and terrestrial shells from Dalmatia. 



J. G. Cooper, M.D. Numerous specimens of California fluviatile and terres- 

 trial shells. 



Prof. 0. A. L. Morch. Seven species of fresh-water and land shells from 

 Greenland. 



F. V. Hayden, M.D. Nineteen species from Nebraska. 



Geo. H. Horn, M.D. Pisidium insigne, Gabb, Pupa Arizonensis, P. hordacea, 



Helix Horni. 

 Smithsonian Institution. Unio pliciferus, Lea, U. vmlrosus, Lea. 

 F. A. Genth. Unio merus, Lea, U. Uhareensis, Lea, and Clausilia Braunii, 



Charp. 

 F. F. Cavada. Nine species of shells from Cuba. 

 John Gregory. One species of Cyproea and one of Cassidaria. 

 Jos. Leidy. Four species from Lake Superior, and two species of Limniadai 



from Wyoming Territory; Planorbis Irivolvis and Amnicola crassa. 



[Dec 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 391 



J. A. McCoxNELL. Pearls from Unios from Little Miami River, Warren Co., 0. 

 John Ford. Animal of Pyrula canaliculatn. 



R. E C. Stearns. Very fine specimens of forty sjiecies of west-coast shells. 

 Dr. John L. LeConte. One hundred and thirty-four species of Uniouidaj, be- 

 ing the collection of the late Major John LeConte. 

 J. Van A. Carter. Four species from Dakota and Wyoming Territory. 

 T. N. Dale. Specimens oi A7iomia epphipium. 



In presenting this list of the year's donations to the Conchological cabinet, 

 amounting in the aggregate to about 6000 species, your special attention is 

 called to the fine collection of upwards of 3000 species of marine, fluviatileand 

 terrestrial shells presented by Mr. Wm. M. Gabb. This collection is particu- 

 larly rich in west-coast species, and supplies a very large number of desiderata 

 to our museum The number of rare and interesting species in our possession 

 has also been greatly augmented by the addition of the shells purchased by 

 subscription from G. B. Sowerby, the greater part of which belonged to the 

 collection of the late Hugh Cuming ; by nearly 500 species of Australasian 

 shells received from Mr. Wm. Harper Pease, of Honolulu ; by the unique col- 

 lection of Alaskan shells presented by Geo. Davidson, and by many rare and 

 valuable species of Unionidai contained in the LeConte collection. 



Shells have been sent during the year in exchange to Dr A. Brot, of Geneva, 

 A. P. Terver, of Lyons, and W. Harper Pease, of Honolulu. For farther in- 

 formation regarding our foreign relations reference is made to the reports of 

 the Corresponding Secretary and the Publication Committee. 



Catalogues of all the families from Pholadidse to Tellinidffi, inclusive, having 

 been completed and published during the year, it is the intention of the Sec- 

 tion to commence immediately the systematic arrangement of the Conchologi- 

 cal collection. A number of members having volunteered to assist, the shells 

 will now be cleaned, labelled and arranged as rapidly as circumstances will 

 permit. 



The Conservator has in his possession a photographic album containing 

 si.xty-one portraits of members of the Section and of distinguished Concholo- 

 gists throughout the world. It is hoped that no opportunity will be neglected 

 of soliciting contributions to this interesting collection from our correspond- 

 ents. 



In conclusion, the Conservator would congratulate the members of the Sec- 

 tion that, from the successful operations of the past year, they have so much 

 reason to draw encouragement for the future. 



Respectfully submitted by 



Edw. J. Nolan, Conservator. 



lilBRAKIAN'S REPORT. 



The Librarian respectfully reports that there have been presented during the 

 past year to the library of the Conchological Section, 11 volumes and 113 

 pamphlets. Of these 58 were received from authors, 31 from editors, 15 from 

 Societies, 7 from the Publication Committee, 4 from Geo. W. Tryon, Jr., 4 from 

 John Cassin, 4 from H. Crosse and 1 from Wm. M. Gabb. 



In addition, twenty-seven pamphlets and continuations of Conchological 

 works have been received by the Academy. 



In consideration of the comparative completeness of the Conchological Li- 

 brary, the Librarian proposes, with the sanction of the Library Committee, to 

 number the works in this department at as eai-ly a date as possible. It is 

 hoped that this plan will facilitate the work of those wishing to refer to the 

 books, while it lessens the chances of volumes being lost or misplaced. 



Edward J. Nolan, Librarian. 



1868.] 




392 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY. 



The election of Officers for the ensuing year was held in accord- 

 ance with the By-Laws, with the following result : 



President Isaac Hays, M, D. 



Vice-Presidents Wm. S, Vaux, 



John Cassin. 



Corresjjonding Secretary Edw. D. Cope. 



Recording /Secretary S. B. Howell, M. D. 



Librarian . Edw. J. Nolan, M. D. 



Treasurer Wm. C. Henszey. 



Curators Jos. Leidy, M. D. 



Wm. S. Vaux, 

 John Cassin, 

 Edw. D. Cope, 



Auditors Jos. Jeanes, 



Wm. S. Vaux, 

 Aubrey H. Smith. 



Publication Committee Jos. Leidy, M. D., 



Robt. Bridges, M. D., 

 John Cassin, 

 Wm. S. Vaux, 

 Edw. J. Nolan, M. D. 



The following gentlemen were elected members : 

 Albert Peale, Franklin Piatt, Jr., Edw. A. Spooner, M. D. 

 The following were elected correspondents : 

 Geo. Neville, of Calcutta, E. I., and Rev. Dr. Jos. F. Berg, of 

 Rutger's College, N. J. 




ELECTIONS. 393 



ELECTIONS FOR 1868. 



The following persons were elected Members : 



Jan. 28. — Edward Goldsmith, Joseph F. Sinnott, Rufus Bucknell. 



Feb. 25.— C. Newlin Peirce, D.D.S., Stephen Morris, Thos. T. Tasker, Jr., 

 Stephen P. M. Morris, Henry G. Morris, Jas. E. Caldwell. 



March 31. — Richard Peltz. 



April 28. — H. C. Chapman, M.D., Charles Wilson Peale, Benj. Bullock, 

 Thomas Webster, Dr. E. Dyer. 



May 26. — Edward Lewis, Jas. Freeman, M.D., Wm. Freeman, M.D., S. Fisher 

 Corlies, T. W. Starr, Edwin Rhoades, M.D., T. H. Andrews, M.D., Herbert 

 Morris, M.D., Jas. S. Gilliams, Charles Bullock, Edward L. Huitt, Joseph Zent- 

 mayer, August F. Miiller, F. F. Maury, M.D., Horace Williams, M.D., W. L. 

 McFadden, Wm. H. Walmsley, Robert W. Hargadine, M.D., T. L. Buckingham. 



June 30.— Gilbert Combs, L. S. Bolles, M.D., J. F. Hollt, M.D., Isaac Comly, 

 M.D., Francis P. Steel, Dr. Wm. Thomson, Rodger Sherman, John E. Carter, 

 Wharton Barter. 



July 28. — George Roberts, M.D., Levi Taylor. 



Aug. 25. — B. Waterhouse Hawkins, Uselma C. Smith. 



Sep. 29.— D. G. Brinton, M.D. 



Oct. 27.— Philip S. Wales, M.D. 



Nov. 24. — W. Mitchell McAllister, Emil Fischer, M.D. Isaac C. Price, Joseph 

 G. Richardson, M.D., Wm. M. Darlington. 



Dec. 29. — Albert Peale, Edwin A. Spooner, M.D., Franklin Piatt, Jr. 



The following were elected Correspondents : 



March 3L — Major Geo. Clendon, Jr., Glenns Falls, N. Y. ; Dr. Fred. Stoliczka, 

 Calcutta ; R. H. Stretch, San Francisco, Cal. 



April 28. — Dr. Theophilus H. Turner, U.S.A. ; Augustus Fendler, Allen- 

 town, Md. 



Man 26. — A. R. Roesler, Washington, D. C. ; Hon. J. S. Wilson, Washing- 

 ton, D.C. ; John Tomes, F.R.S., London. 



June 30. — Dr. John F. Boynton, New York City, N. Y. ; Prof. James Orton, 

 Rochester, N. Y. 



July 28. — Wm. T. Bingham, Boston, Mass ; Alponse Milne Edwards, Paris, 

 France ; Rev. Sam. Haughton, Dublin, Ireland ; W. Kitchen Parker, F.R.S., 

 London; T. Spencer Cobbott, M. D. ; London. 



Aug. 25. — Ralph Tate, Lon. Eng. ; Prof. Oliver Wendell Holmes, Boston. 



Oct. 27.— A. A. Breneman, Lancaster Co., Penn. ; Dr. L. E. Latimer, N. Y. ; 

 Dr. H. Evan Rijgersma, St. Mortins, W. I. 



Nov. 24. — Prof. H. James Clark, Centre Co., Pa. 



Dec. 29.— Geo. Neville, Calcutta, E. I. ; Rev. Dr. Jos. F. Berg, Rutgers 

 College, N. J. 




394 CORRESPONDENCE. 



CORRESPONDENCE OF THE ACADEMY, 



For 1868. 



January. — La Society Hollandaise des Sciences, announcing that they have 

 forwarded the Archives Neerlandaise, t. i, 3, 4, 5. 



K. K. Zoologisch-botanische Gesellschaft, Wein, acknowledging receipt of 

 Proceedings. 



Geological Museum, Calcutta, with their publications for the Library. 



Nassauischen Vereins fiir Naturkunde, Weisbaden, acknowledging receipt 

 of Proceedings and sending publications in return. 



Der Naturforschende Verein zu Riga, acknowledging receipt of Proceed- 

 ings and with publications sent in return. 



Geo. W. Davidson, Edinburg, Scotland. 



Harrison Allen, resignation of office, Corresponding Secretary. 



Real Observatoire de Madrid, with donations for Library. 



February. — American Entomological Society ; 



Der Naturwissenschaftliche Verein Liineburg ; 



Naturforschenden Gesellschaft, Berlin, severally acknowledging receipt of 

 Proceedings. 



Universite Catholique de Louvaine, acknowledging receipt of publications 

 of the Academy, and sending the publications of the University in return. 



Die Naturhistoriche Verein, Hanover, with publications. 



Geo. Davidson, U. S. Coast Survey. 



Gesellschaft der Wissenschaften zu Gottingen, with publications. 



Thomas A. Scott, Phila. 



B. Dyer, S. Abington, Mass. 



D. E. Macpherson, conveying information of the death of Sir David Brewster, 

 Feb. 10, 1868. 



From Neuwied, conveying information of the death of Prinzen Maximillian 

 zu Wied. 



March. — Geological Museum, of Calcutta, India ; 



Museum at Bergen, Norway ; 



Essex Institute and Die naturforschende Gesellschaft, severally acknowledg- 

 ing receipt of Proceedings. 



Universitatis Carolinas Lundensis Rector. 



Prof Joseph Henry, Smithsonian Institution. 



Chicago Academy of Natural Sciences, with transactions. 



Canadian Sec. of State, with Report of the Progress of Canadian Geologi- 

 cal Survey, from 1863 to 1866. 



K. K. Zool. botan., Gessellschaft, with donations to the Library. 



Edward L. Berthoud, Golden City, Colorado, acknowledging receipt of 

 diploma. 



April. — Rector de la Universidad de Chil6. 



L. S. Ward, Treas. Foreign Missions, New York. 



H. H. Jessup, Montrose, Pa. 



R. Odinet, Agent of Havre, Boston and Philadelphia Steamship Company. 



E. B. Cary, Ann Arbor, Mich. 



G. Schwartz, Vienna, acknowledging election as correspondent. 

 H. B. Wetzell, Phila. 



Samuel Jeanes, resignation of membership. 



Naturkunde Gesellschaft in Wiirttemburg, acknowledging receipt of Pro- 

 ceedings. 



Naturwissenschaftliche Verein zu Bremen ; 



Acad^mie Royale de Belgique ; 



Akademie der Wissenschaften, severally sending publications. 



May. — Prof. Joseph Henry. 



J. S. Wilson, Geological Museum, Gen. Land Office. 




COERESPONDENCE. 



395 



J. F. Williams, Sec. Minnesota Hist. Society. 



Boston Society of Nat. History, acknowledging receipt of Proceedings and 

 Journal and accompanied by publications in return. 



Zoolog. Museum in Vienna, asking that deficiencies in Academy publications 

 may be supplied. 



M. Sumichrast Orizaba. 



Jas. M. Fisher, Pittsburg, Pa. 



S. A. Briggs, Chicago, 111. 



William Pepper, M. D., Phila. 



Jas. Orton, Rochester, N. Y. 



June. — John Henry Gurney, Devonshire, acknowledging election as Corres- 

 ponding member. 



A. Ten Brock, Librarian of the University of Michigan ; 



Warren & Co., Liverpool Steamship Office ; 



Antonio de Lecerda, Bahia ; 



Alexander Schyanoff, Kiew ; 



Lyceum of Natural Hist, of New York, each acknowledging receipt of Pro- 

 ceedings. 



Naturforschende Gesellschaft in Dantzig, acknowledging receipts of Pro- 

 ceedings, and presenting publications in return. 



La Fondation Teyler a Harlem, presenting publication. 



July. — Wharton Barker, acknowledging election. 



Essex Institute, acknowledging receipt of Proceedings. 



Prof. Joseph Henry, Smithsonian Inst 



A. R. Roessler, Washington, Gen. Land Office. 



G. W. Coan, Oroomiah, Persia. 



Franz Baumgartner, announcing the death of Andreas Freiherrn von Banm- 

 gartner. 



Real Observatoire de Madrid, with donation for Library. 



August. — Royal Geog. Soc. London, sending 37th vol. of Journal. 



D. G. Brinton, acknowledging election. 



Academie Royale de Belgique, acknowledging receipt of Proceedings. 



Nat. Hist. Society of Northumberland, announcing the sending of Nat. Hist. 

 Transactions, and asking for papers in return. 



Hungarian Academy of Science, acknowledging receipt of Proceedings and 

 presenting books to the Library. 



British Museum ; 



Geological Society of London, each acknowledging receipt of Proceedings 

 and Journal. 



Linnean Society acknowledging receipts of Jour, and Proceed. 



Prof. Joseph Henry. 



Edward C. H. Day, Scarsdale, N. Y. 



James Orton, Rochester, N. Y. 



Dr. G. Radly, Tiflis. 



T. H. Turner, Fort Wallace, Kansas. 



Alexander Clot Bey, announcing the death of Monsieur Antoine Barthelemy 

 Clot Bey. 



September. — Leeds Philosophical and Literary Society ; 



Naturforschende Verein in Briinn ; 



Natural Hist. Society of Northumberland, each acknowledging receipt of 

 Proceedings. 



American Pharmaceutical Association, acknowledging receipt of invitation 

 to visit Museum of the Academy. 



W. W. Keen, M.°D., Phila. 



J. A. Allen, Springfield, Mass. 



James Orton, Rochester, N. Y. 



October. — Smithsonian Institution, acknowledging receipt of Proceedings. 



Essex Institute, acknowledging receipt of Proceedings. 




396 DONATIONS TO MUSEUM. 



E. C. BoUes, asking for copies of Journal. 

 Jas. Orton. 

 Mahlon Carver. 



John S. Hart, of Trenton Normal School, asking privilege of using the 

 Museum 



Prof. C. Root, of Hamilton College, acknowledging election. 



JVovember. — Jas. D. Dana. 



A. R. Roessler, Gen. Land OfRce. 



Thomas Barnett, with casts for the Museum. 



Augustus Fendler, acknowledging election. 



John Akhurst. 



December. — Die Gesellschaft der Wissenschaften, acknowledging receipt of 

 Proceedings and presenting publications. 



Schweizerische Gesellschaft and Naturforschende Gesellschaft, each 

 acknowledging receipt of Proceedings and presenting publications in return. 



Die Senckenbergische Naturforschende Gesellschaft, presenting publications. 



Wm. T. Brigham, Boston. 



Prof. 0. W. Holmes, Boston. 



Whole number of letters received 98. 



DONATIONS TO THE MUSEUM. 



186 8. 



(For donations to Conchological cabinet, see Report of Conservator of Con- 

 cho! ogical Section.) 



Adams, C. B. May bth. Celestus impressus, Jamaica. 



Adams, J, July 1th. Coral. 



Allen, Dr. H. July Ith. Astacus from Ockoganey River. 



Beadle, Rev. E R. Nov. 3d. Gigantic crystal of Felspar from Newcastle Co., 

 Del. ; eight specimens of Numulitic limestone from Northern Syria ; block 

 of permian limestone from Junction City. 



Borda, E. March \Oth. Specimen of fruit. 



Bourquin, F. July 1th. Dryopterus, Polypodium. 



Bradner, Dr. N. Roe. Dec. 1st. Large specimen of Shell Rock from the reefs 

 of Florida. 



Brevoort, J. C. Nov. 3d. Loxopholis rugiceps. Cope, from New Grenada. 



Brinton, Dr. D. G. Nov. 3d. Queen Termite from Cape Palmas, Africa. 



Bryan, 0. N. May 5th. Skulls of two species of Lepidosteus. 



Burk, I. and E. Diffenbach. Jan. 2lst. A collection of 53 plants of Pennsyl- 

 vania and New Jersey. 



Claghorn, Jas. H. Nov. 3d. Stalactite from Cave of Addelsburg, Austria. 



Clay, Jos. A. Jan. 2lst. A serpent from Peru. 



Cope, E. D. Jan. 1th. One reptile from Brazil, 45 specimens, 9 species of 

 fishes from Conestoga River ; 164 specimens, 15 species from Roanoke 

 River; 151 specimens, 34 sjjecies from James River, Va. ; 644 specimens, 

 26 species from Kanawha River, Va. ; 460 specimens, 33 species from Hol- 

 ston River. Jan. lAth. A collection of upwards of 1000 specimens, 40 

 species of teeth of sharks and other fishes from the miocene of Charles Co., 

 Md. Ja7i. 2lst. Five species of fishes from Potomac River, 10 species 

 from Wabash River, and 9 species of reptiles from Rocky Mountains. 

 Feb. 4lh. Seven species of skins of fishes, many specimens from Brown's 

 Mills, N. J. ; small collection of subcarboniferous fossils from west side 

 of Saltville, and from Walker's Mt., Smith Co., Va. ; small collection of 




DONATIOXS TO MUSEUM. 397 



coal plants and specimens of coal from carboniferous formation of Rich- 

 mond, Va. ; skins of Arvicola pinetorum, A. Pennsylvanica, Scalops Cana- 

 densis, Jaculus Hudsonius and Blarina Carolinensis, from Charles Co., 

 Md. March 3d. Eighteen species of Reptiles, one Crustacean, one Insect, 

 from Central America. March 10th. Large serpent from Vera Paz, C. A., 

 and a small collection of mammals and birds in alcohol from Giles Co., 

 Va. May 5th. Specimens of Neotoma Floridana, Austinville, Wythe Co., 

 Va. ; Heterodon from Saltville, Va. ; Celestus striatus, Jamaica : and a 

 snake from Central America. May 19th. Nineteen jars of fishes, from 

 Kansas ; skull of Globiocephalus melas, from New Jersey. June 2d. A 

 collection of fossil Unionidaj, from the green sand of New Jersey ; numer- 

 ous remains of Lelaps aquilungus, from the green sand of Barnsboro', 

 Gloucester Co., N. J. ; femur of Hadrosaurus Foulkii, from the same lo- 

 cality. Juiib 23d. Megaptera pusilla, Cope, from the miocene, Charles 

 Co., ild. ; Ixacanthus velox, Cope, from same locality. July 1th. Skele- 

 ton of Aspidonectes spinifer, from Alleghany River, Pa. ; a Skate from 

 Syria. July 21st. Five mammal skins; a red squirrel; Jacare puucta- 

 tula ; twenty-two jars of reptiles, fishes, &c., from Magdalena River, New 

 Grenada. Sept. 1st. A collection of mammals and reptiles in ten jars, 

 from Bahia, Brazil ; six bird skins from St. Bartholomew, W.I. Sept. loth. 

 Fourteen jars of reptiles, containing fourteen species from various locali- 

 ties. iVoi'. 3d. Collection of remains of sixteen species of extinct Cetacea 

 from the miocene of Charles Co., Md. ; mounted skeleton of Palumedea 

 cornuta ; a collection of forty species of reptiles of the Orton Expedition 

 to Equador; a collection of reptiles from Brazil and Central America. 

 Nov. lOlh. Crocodilus Americauus from Cuba. (See Welsh.) 



Corse, Dr. J. M. Dec. 1st. Four skulls and casts of faces of noted murderers: 

 numerous jars of embryo sheep of various ages, parasitic animals, fine in- 

 jections for microscopic observation, and various specimens in compara- 

 tive anatomy ; skull of a Flat-head Indian ; two skulls from an Indian 

 mound near Rock Island, 111. ; skeleton of an Eagle; specimens of copper 

 ore. 



Craven, Joseph H. July Ith. Beautiful specimen of Euplectella. 



Crosby, Peirce. Aug. ith. Specimen of Fruit from Para, Brazil. 



Davidson, Geo. Jan. 1th, Five specimens of the male and female skeleton of 

 the Sea Otter, from Alaska. March 3d. Fifteen specimens of Fishes, 3 

 Echinoderms and 2 Crustacea from Alaska. 



Davidson, Thos. and George. Aug. itk. Large and valuable collection of 

 Fishes from Santa Cruz, West Indies. 



Davis, Edw. July 2lst. Pair of antlers. 



Day, Edw. Sept. 1st. A collection of Reptiles in five jars, from Equador. 



DiefFenbaugh, E. See Burk. 



Draper, E. Jan. 14/h. Fine specimen of Pyrites with Blende from Mexico, 

 and specimens of Quartz with Chalybite. 



Eddy, Rev. E. B. May bth. A collection of fossils, consisting of a large coral 

 and l(j brachiopods. 



Ellis, J. B. March 3d. Specimen of Tuckahoe, from Newfield, N. J. 



Engelmann, G. April 2\st. Herbarium Juncorum Boreali Americanoru 

 Normale ed. G. Engelmann. St. Louis, 1868. 



Gabb, Wm. .VL Jan. 1th. F'orty-five specimens, thirteen species of Reptiles 

 from California. Jan. lUh. Skin of Taxidea Berlanderi, from Central 

 Nevada ; four species of Serpents from Lower California ; two specimens 

 of a Myriapod and nest of a Mygale from California. Jan. 21st. Two bats 

 from Pigeon Springs, a small Rodent from Western Nevada, and a Crota- 

 ])hytu3 from same locality ; skull of a hare ; skins of four species of snakes 

 from Lower California. Feb. 4t/i. Two specimens of Unychoteuthis fusi- 

 formis, Gabb, from Society Islands ; five species of Echinoderms from 

 California ; two species of Crustaceans from St. Barbara, Cal. ; Hyalonema 

 Sieboldii from Japan. May bth. Eutsenia vagrans from Nevada. Oct. 

 I3th An Agouti from Panama. Oct. 20tk. Two specimens of fossil 




398 DONATIONS TO MUSEUM. 



fishes from Hillsborough, N. B. Nov. 'id. Collection of Graptolites, nine 

 species, from Hudson River group, two miles below Albany, N. Y. Nov. 

 l(>th. A small collection of remains of fishes from the cretaceous forma- 

 tion of California. Dec. \st. A large collection of fossils, consisting of 

 about 500 species and 3000 specimens, belonging to the triassic, cretaceous 

 and tertiary formations of California, Nevada and Oregon, deposited. 



Genth, Dr. F. A. Au(/. Ath. Specimens of Clausilia Braunii, Charpentier, 

 from Weinheim, Hesse Darmstadt ; ear-bone of Whale from Gulf of Cali- 

 fornia. 



Gibbon, Gen. John, through Dr. Wilcox. Aug. \2th. Baculite from near Fort 

 Sanders, Dakota. 



Gibbons, Dr. W. P , through Dr. Bridges. Jan. 1th. A collection of one hun- 

 dred and seventeen California plants. 



Goldsmith, E. Oct. 20/h. Bole from South Amboy. 



Greer, Col. Jas., through Dr. Ruschenberger. Uec. 1st. Five Devonian fossils 

 from Columbus, Ohio ; 26 Lower Silurian fossils from Dayton, Ohio ; frag- 

 ment of wood from Drift from Dayton, Ohio ; fossil Coral from near same 

 locality. 



Grout, Rev. A. Jan. 2lst. Ten species of Invertebrates and one Vertebrate, 

 from Tula Land, S. Africa. 



Guillou, C. July 1th. A small miscellaneous collection of Minerals. July 

 l-ith. Fine Testudo geometrica, from Madagascar. 



Hall, Geo. W. March 3d. Mastodon tooth from Hlinois. 



Hassler, Dr. F. A. Dec. 22d. Celestine from Sicily ; one Coal, two Hematites 

 from Bibb Co., Ala. ; Hematite from Missouri ; Mica from Philadelphia, and 

 nine specimens of Coal Fossils from Rhode Island and Mauch Chunk, Pa. 



Hayden, Dr. F. V. April 2lst. Lignite from Colorado, a number of Ostrea 

 subtrigonalis, and an Inoceramus from Colorado. 



Hayes, Dr. I. 1. July 1th. Two skulls of Walrus and two of Esquimaux 

 Dogs. 



Hoopes, B. A. Oct. I3ih. Fine large crystallized Oalcite from Cumberland, 

 England. 



Horn, Dr. Geo. H. Jan. 1th. Three species of Reptiles from Arizona. Feb. 

 Ath. Fresh-water Sponge, near Susanville, Hone^y Lake Valley, Cal. ; tin 

 ore from Temescal, Cal. April 2lst. Pisidium from Fort Tejon, Cal. 



Hornet's nest. Jan. 1th. 



Hunt, Rev. W. E. Nov. 3d. Fragment of Ancient Pottery and Human Bones, 

 with the greater portion of a Scull from Coshocton, Ohio. 



Jeanes, Jos. July 1th. Skeleton of Jackal, from Syria. 



Judson, Dr 0. A. Ja7i. 2lst. A small collection of Fossils from Pike Co., Pa., 

 and the fossil rib of a Cetacean from Virginia. 



Kokler, Wm. Uec. 1st. Four Fossils from Hannover, Germany. 



Lambert, J. June 23d. A large Spider from Montgomery Co., Pa. 



Lamborn, R. H. Nov. 3d. Two obscure Fossils from Huronian Slate, St. 

 Louis R., Min. 



Lavergne, Felix. Oct. 13th. Three specimens of native Sulphur from Nevis, 

 W. I. 



Lea, I. Dec. \st. Scull of the Mississippi Snapper. (See Welsh.) 

 LeConte, Dr. J. L. Jan. lAth. A Serpent, Spider, Cicada, two Myriapods, and 

 a Lizard from Fort Craig, N. M. April 2lst. A collection of Fossil 

 Tertiary and Cretaceous Plants, (recently described by Mr. Lesquereux) 

 from Colorado, New Mexico and Kansas, an Inoceramus from Colorado. 

 May I9th. A collection of upwards of 6000 species of exotic Coleoptera 

 belonging to the late Dr. Zimmerman. Presented by Dr. J. L. LeConte, 

 Dr. E J. Lewis, Dr. Geo.H. Horn, Dr. F. W. Lewis, Isaac Lea, S. S. Halde- 

 man and E. Draper. 

 Leidy, Dr. Jos. June 2d. Stigmarite and other coal plants, six species. 



Lewis. Dr. E. J. Jun. 1th. Portion of the Jaw of a Fish. March 11th. One 

 Nyctale Acadica, 2 Cardinalis Virginianus, Sialia Wilsonii, Picus Pubes- 




DONATIONS TO MUSEUM. 399 



cens, from Harford Co., Md. Oct. ]3th. Large collection of Nests and 

 Eg-gs of Birds, from Harford Co., Md. 

 Lincecum, Dr. G. Jon. 1th. One hundred and four specimens, fourteen 



species of Reptiles from Texas. 

 Lyman, B. S. Nov. 3d. Asphaltum from Trinidad and Matanzas, Cuba ; 



crystals of Smoky Quartz, from Mt. St. Gothard, Sd. 

 Matthews, C. W. May bth. Sigillaria from Lawrence Co., Ala. 

 Meehan, Thos. Jan. 1th. Two fossil remains of Fishes, Amphidectes Gladi- 

 olus, Cope, and Polygryphus prehensilis, Cope ; from Sandusky, Ohio. 

 Moss, Theo, F. March iith. Crystallized Titanium, from Scotland. 

 Parker, H. R. April liih. A large Devonian Fossil from Oil Creek, Venango 



Co., Pa. 

 Peale, Charles W. June 23d. Calamite from Shamokin, Cumberland Co. 

 Pennock, Homer. July 1th. Five fortification Agates, deposited. 

 Philips, Moro. June 2d. Three specimens of Ossite from Sombrera, W. L, 



and a specimen of the same from Ashley River, S. C. 

 Powell, Saml. Sept \st. A miscellaneous collection of Marine Animals, con- 

 sisting of Fishes, MoUusks, Echinoderms, Crustaceans, &c., from Newport, 

 R. L 

 Raborg, Wm. Nov. 3d. Chrysothrix Sciureus, from Amazon River. 

 Rand, Theo. D. March 3d. Stilbite from Flat Rock Tunnel. March \Oth. 



Graphic Granite and Muscovite with Magnetic Iron. 

 Randall, F. A. Sept. 1st. Two jars of Reptiles from Warren Co., Pa. Oct. 



20th. A small collection of Palaeozoic Fossils. 

 Rice, John. See Welsh. 

 Rothrock, Dr. J. T. March llth. A small collection, chiefly of Devonian 



Fossils, from Mifflin, Alleghany and Centre Co's, Pa. 

 Salt Works, Washington Co., Va. Feb. ith. Tusk, molar tooth and epiph- 



j^sis of humerus of Mastodon and ramus of lower jaw of a Bison. 

 Sergeant, J. D. Oct. \3th. Nest of the Baltimore Oriole, made exclusively of 



wool and horse-hair, from Western Pennsylvania. 

 Siebold, Prof. Von. May I9th. Teeth of seven species of Cyprinidse, with 



many varieties of specimens. 

 Skin of an Eel, which weighed 9^ lbs., and was caught in Hunter's Lake, Sul- 

 livan Co., Pa. 

 Smith, T. Guilford. 3Iarch 24:th. Five specimens of Gold Ores from Colo- 

 rado. 

 Smithsonian Inst. 3Iai/ 5th. Eight species of Amblystoma. Aug. I2th. 

 Anodonta Yonkanensis, Lea. June 2d. Twenty species of Reptiles from 

 Guayaquil, Quito and Upper Amazon. 

 Snell, P. A. March lO'h. Mass of calcareous Tufa from Utica, 111. 

 Snyder, W. B. May I9th. Indian Skeleton, &c., from a mound at Bellevue, 



Nebraska. 

 Struthers, Wm. Oct. I3th. Conglomerate from the red sandstone of Port- 

 land, Con. 

 Sumichrist, F. Jan. 1th. Eighty-six specimens, nine species of Fishes from 



Mexico. 

 Turner, Dr. Theo. H. Bee. I5lh. A collection of fossil remains of a huge 

 Saurian, comprising the greater part of the skeleton, described by Prof. 

 Cope under the name of Elasmosaurus, from about 15 miles of Fort Wal- 

 lace, Kansas. 

 Two fossil Fishes from Solenhofen Slate. 



Tyson, Saml. Oct. 20th. Three specimens of Wavellite from Chester Co. 

 Ulex, Geo. J. May I9th. Specimen of Struvite from Hamburg. 

 United States Sanitary Commission. Dec. I5th. A set of instruments con- 

 sisting of an Andrometer, Spirometer, Dynamometer, Facial-Angle In- 

 strument and Callipers, for Anthropological measurements. 

 Vaux, Wm. S. March 3d. Fine specimen of Phlogopite, Rossie, St. Law- 

 rence Co., N. Y. March 24th. Skull of Chelone Mydas. July 1th. Skel- 



27 




400 DONATIONS TO LIBRARY. 



eton of Fox from Syria. Oct. 6th. Very fine specimen of Tetrahedrite, 



coated with P^'rites from Liskeard, Cornwall. (See Welsh.) 

 Walton, Jos. 3Ia7/ bth. Two tertiary fossil Shells from Aquia Creek, Va 



Acantharchus promotis from New Jersey. Sept. 1st. A Silurian Fossil 



from the Catskill Mts. 

 Welsh, Saml. and John. Dec. 22d. A portion of the Poirrier Collection of 



Remains of Mammals Birds and Fishes from the Miocene, Pliocene and 



Post-Pliocene formations of the Valley of the Loire, France. Purchased 



at a cost of $700.00, and presented by Messrs. Samuel and John Welsh, 



Isaac Lea, Wm. S. Vaux, Wm. P. Wilstach and John Rice. Obtained 



through Prof. B. D. Cope. 

 Westcott, Chas. S. Dec. 1st. Mounted specimen of a Goshawk, Astur palum- 



barius, from Monroe Co., Pa. 

 Wheelock, L. P. Feb. 4th. A collection of 58 specimens of fossils, consisting 



of remains of Fishes, Mollusks and Corals, from the corniferous limestone 



near Sandusky, Ohio. 

 Willis, J. R. Jan. I'ith. A collection of Coal Fossils, Minerals, Shells and 



Crustaceans from Nova Scotia. Jan. 2lst. Eight species of Fishes from 



Nova Scotia; six Invertebrates from same locality. 

 Wilstach, W. P. See Welsh. 

 Wood, Dr. H. C. i/«y bth. A collection of 19 bottles (containing numerous 



specimens) of as many species of Phalangidaj. 

 Wood, Wm. S. Oct. 13th. Young of Cyanura cristata, Picus pubescens and 



Melospiza melodia, from New Jersey. 

 Wright, Jas. A. March \7th. A complete articulated skeleton of the Irish 



Elk, (Cervus Hibernicus) together with the skull and jfore part of the 



other bones of another skeleton. 

 Yarnal, H. June 23. Deer from near Kane, McKean Co., Pa. 



DONATIONS TO THE LIBRARY. 



1868. 



JOURNALS AND PERIODICALS. 



NORWAY. 



Christiana. Det Kongelige Norske Fredericks Universitets, Aarsberetning for 



Aaret 1866 — 1867. From the University. 

 Forhandlingar i Videnskabs-Sclskabet i Christiania. Aars 1865 and 1866, 



1866 — 1867. From the Society. 

 Throndhjem. Det K. Norske Videnskabers-Selskabs Skrifter det 19de Aarhun- 



drede. 5te Bands, Iste Heft, 1865. Also from 2 Band, Iste Heft, to 4de 



Band, Iste Heft, 1824—1846. From the Society. 



DENMARK. 



Kjobenhavn. Oversigt over det Kongelije Danske Videnskabernes Selskabs. 

 1866, No. 7 ; 1867, Nos. 4 and 5. From the Society. 

 Memoires de la Soci^te Royale des Antiquaires du Nord, 1850 — i860, 1861 



1866. From the Society. ' 

 Tillaeg til Aarbger for Nordisk Oldkyndighed og Historic, aargang 1866 



1867. From the same. 



Det Kongelige Danske Videnskabernes Selskabs Skrifter, Sjette Bind, and 

 Femte Raekke, Syvende Bind, 1867. From the Society. 




DONATIONS TO LIBRARY. 401 



RUSSIA. 



Dorpat. Sitzungsberichte derNaturforschenden Gesellscbaft zu Dorpat ia den 

 Jahren 1853 — 1863. From the Society. 

 Archiv fiir die Naturkunde Liv-Elist und Kurlands. Herausgegeben von 

 der Dorpater Naturforscher Gesellschaft. Erste Serie. 3er Band, 3e and 

 4e Lief. ; 4er Band, le Lief., zweite Serie. Biologische Naturkunde, 6er 

 Band, le iind 2e Lief., 7er Band, le Lief., 1862—1867. From the Society. 



Moscou. Bulletin de la Society Imp^riale des Naturalistes de Moscou, 1867, 

 Nos. I — IV. From the Society. 



Riga. Correspondenzblatt des Naturforscher Vereins zu Riga, 16er Jahrg, 

 1867. From the Society. 



St. Petersburg. Bulletin de I'Academie Imperiale des Sciences de St. Peters- 

 burg. Nos. 2 — 5, 1868. From the Society. 

 Memoires de I'Academie Imperiale des Sciences des St. Petersburg. Vlle 

 Serie, Tome XL Nos. 9—18, 1868. From the Society. 



HOLLAND. 



Amsterdam. Jaarboek van de Koninklijke Akademie van Wetenschappen 



1866. From the Society. 



Verslagen en Mededeelingen der K. Academic van Wetenschappen. Afdee- 

 ling Letterkunde. Tiende Deel, 1866. From the Society. 



Processen-Verbaal van derGewone Vergaderingen der Koninklijke Akade- 

 mie van Wetenschappen. 1866-7. From the Academy. 



Rapport fait a I'Academie Royale des Sciences des Pays-Bas, section Phy- 

 sique. 1868. From the Academy. 

 Harlem. Archives du Musee Teyler. Vol. 1, Fasc 1, 2 and 3me, 1868. From 

 the Museum. 



Archives Neerlandaises des Sciences Exactes et Naturelles ; published by 

 the Dutch Society of Sciences. Vol. 2, Parts 3, 4 and 5. La Haye, 1867. 

 From the Society. 



GERMANY. 



Altenburg. Mittheilungen aus dem Osterlande ; published by the Gewerbe 

 Vereine, Naturforschenden Gesellschaft and the Bienen wirthschaftlichen 

 Vereine of Altenburg. Vol. XVIII, Parts 1 and 2, 1867. From the So- 

 cieties. 

 Mittheilungen aus dem Osterlande, gemeinschaftlich herausgegeben von 

 Kiinst und Handwerks-Vereine, von der Naturforschenden Gesellschaft 

 und vom Landwirthschaftlichen Vereine zu Altenburg. Vols. 1 — 13. 

 1837—1857. From the Society. 



Augsburg. Neunzehnter Bericht des Naturhistorischen Vereins in Augsburg, 



1867. From the Society. 



Berlin. Archiv fiir Naturgeschichte. Herausgegeben von Dr. F. H. Troschel. 



32er Jahrg, 6es Heft, to 34er Jahrg, les Heft. From the Edjtor. 

 Zeitschrift fiir die Gesammten Naturwissenschaften. Herausgegeben von 



dem Naturw. Vereine fiir Sachsen und Thuriugen in Halle. 29er, 30er 



und 31er Banden. From the Society. 

 Zeitschrift der Deutschen geologischen Gesellschaft. XIX Band, 2 Heft, 



to XX Band, 2 Heft. From the Society. 

 Physikalische Abhandlungen der K. Akademie der Wissenschaften zu Ber- 

 lin aus dem Jahre 1866. Mathematische Abhandlungen aus dem Jahre 



1866—1867, From the Society. 

 Monatsbericht der K. P. Akademie der Wissenschaften zu Berlin. Aug. 



1867, to Juli, 1868. From the Society. 

 Sitzungs-Berichte der Gesellschaft Naturforschender Freuude zu Berlin im 



Jahre 1866—1867. From the Society. 

 Wochenschrift des Vereines zur Beforderung des Gartenbaues in den Konigl. 



Preussischen Staaten fiir Gartnerei und Pflanzenkunde. Nos. 26 — 52, 



1867 J Nos. 1—28, 1868. From the Society. 




402 DONATIONS TO LIBRARY. 



Berliner Entomologiscbe Zeitschrift. Herausgegeben Ton dem Entomolo- 



gischen Vereiue in Berlin. Her Jahrg, 1867, Ses and 4es Vierteljahr- 



sheft, nnd 12er Jahrg, les und 2es Vierteljahrsheft. From the Society. 

 Bonn, Verhandhmgen des Naturbistorischen Vereines der preussiscben Rbein- 



lande und Westpbalens. 24er Jahrg, Iste und 2te Hafifte, 1867. From 



the Society. 

 Braunschweig. Arcbiv fiir Anthropologic. 2er Band, Ses Heft; 3er Band, les 



and 2es Heft. From the Library Fund. 

 Bremen. Abhandlungen herausgegeben vom Naturwissenshaftlichen Vereine 



zu Bremen. 1 Bd., Ill Heft, 1868. From the Society. 

 Brunn. Verbandlungen des Naturforschenden Vereines in Brunn. Vol. 5, 



1866, 1867. From the Society. 

 Budan. A Magyar Tudom. Akademia Eokonyvei. 1835 — 1862. 8 Vols., 4to. 



From the Royal Hungarian Academy of Science. 

 Cassel. Journal fiir Ornithologie. Herausgegeben ven Dr. Jean Cabanis. 



Heft V and VI, XV Jahrg., and Heft I— III, 16 Jahrg., 1867. From the 



Wilson Fund. 

 Malakozoologische Blatter. Herausgegeben von Dr. Louis Pfeiffer. 15 



Band, 1 — 5 Bog, and pp. 145 to 224. From the Wilson Fund. 

 Danzig. Schriften der Naturforschenden Gesellschaft in Danzig, 1868. From 



the Society. 

 Darmstadt. Notizblatt des Vereines fiir Erdkunde und Verwandte Wissen- 



schaften zu Darmstadt. Ill Folge, V Heft, 1866. From the Society. 

 Dresden. Sitzungs-Berichte der Naturwissenschaftlichen Gesellschaft Isis in 



Dresden. Jahrgang 1867, Nos. 4 to 12 ; 1868, Nos. 1 — 6. From the So- 

 ciety. 

 Verbandlungen der Kaiserlichen Leopoldino-Carolinischen deutschen 



Akademie der Naturforscher. 33er Band, 1867. From the Society. 

 Frankfurt-am-main. Der Zoologiscbe Garten. VIII Jahrg. 1867, No. 7, to 



1868, No. 6. From the Editor. 

 Abhandlungen, herausgegeben von der Senckenbergescben Naturforschen- 



den Gesellschaft. 6 Bandes, 3 and 4 Heft. 1866-67. From the Society. 

 Jabresbericht iiber die Verwaltung des Medicinalwesens. Herausgegeben 



von dem Aerztlichen Verein. VIII Jahrg., 1864 — 1867. From the So- 

 ciety. 

 Freiburg, I. B. Berichte iiber die Verbandlungen der Naturforscbenden Gesell- 

 schaft zu Freiburg I B. Band IV, Heft V, 1867. From the Society. 

 Gorlitz. Abhandlungen der Naturbistorischen Gesellschaft zu Gorlitz. 13er 



Band, 1868. From the Society. 

 Gotha. Mittheilungen aus Justus Perthes Geographischer Anstalt. XI, 1867, 



to IX, 1868. Ergangsungsbeft, Nos. 22 and 23. From the Library Fund, 

 (iottingen. Nacbricbten von der K. Gesellschaft der Wissenschaften und der 



Georg-Augusts-Universitat aus dem Jabre 1867. From the Societ3^ 

 Hannover. Funfzebnter, Sechszehnter und Siebenzehnter Jabresbericht der 



Natui'bistoriscben Gesellschaft zu Hannover, 1867. From the Society. 

 Jena. Entomologisches Arcbiv. Herausgegeben von Dr. Theo. Thon. Erster 



Band, Erstes bis 4es Heft. 2er Band, les Heft. 1827—1829. From the 



Library Fund. 

 Kiel. Zoologisches Magazin. Herausgegeben von Dr. C. R. W. Wiedeman. 



Band 1 and Band 2, Stiick 1. Kiel, 1817, and Altona, 1823. From the 



Library Fund. 

 Konigsberg. Schriften der K. Physicalish-Okonomischen Gesellschaft zu 



Konigsberg. 6er Jahrgang, 1865, 1 and 2 Abth., 7er Abtb., 1866, 1 and 



2 Abth. From the Societj'. 

 Leipzig. Zeitschrift fiir Wissenschaftliche Zoologie, herausgegeben von 



Carl T V. Siebold und Albert Kolliker. 18er Band, les Helt to 3es Heft, 



1868. Namen Register iiber Band, I— XV, 1868. 

 Arcbiv fiir Anatomic, Physiologic und Wissenschaftliche Medecin. Her- 

 ausgegeben von Drs. Reichert und Bois Reymond. 1867, Heft 5, to 

 1868, Heft 3. From the Library Fund. 




DONATIONS TO LIBRARY. 



403 



Jenaische Zeitschrift fiir Medecin und Naturwissenschaft herausgegeben 



von der Medicinisch-naturwissenschaftlichen Gesellschaft zu Jena. 3er 



Band, 4e3 Heft, 1867. From the Society. 



Berichte iiber die Verhandlungen der k. s. Gesellschaft der Wissenschaft- 



ten zu Leipzig; Mathematisch-Physische Classe, 1866, Nos. IV and 



V, 1867, Nos. 1 and II, 1867. From the Society, 



Des YIII Bandes der Abhandlungen der Math.-Phys.-Classe der k. s. 



Gesell. der Wissen. Nos. IV and V. Leipzig, 1867. From the Society. 



Linz. Sechsundzwanzigster Bericht iiber das Museum Francisco-Carolinum. 



1866. From the Museum. 

 Lund. Acta Universitatis Luudensis, 1865. Four parts, 1865 — 66. From the 



University. 

 Mannheimer. Dreiunddreissigster Jahresbericht des Mannheimer Vereins fiir 



Naturkunde, 1867. From the Society. 

 Munich. Annalen der Koniglichen Sternwarte bei Miinchen. Vols. XV and 

 XVI, 1867. From the Society. 

 Abhandlungen der Mathematisch Physikalischen Classe der K. B. Aka- 

 demie der Wissenschaften. Zehnten Bandes, 1 ste Abth. Historischen 

 Classe. 9en Bandes. 3e Abth. 1866. From the Society. 

 Sitzungsberichte der K. B. Akaderaie der Wissenschaften zu Miinchen. 



1866, II, Heft II, to 1867, II, Heft II. Miinchen 1866—67. From the 

 Society. 



Neubraudenburg. Archiv des Vereins der Freunde der Naturgeschichte in 



Meklenburg. 21 Jahrg., 1868. From the Society. 



Oflfenbach, A. M. Achter Band des Offenbacher Vereins fur Naturkunde iiber 



seine Thjitigkeit vom 31 Mai 1866, bis 12 Mai, 1867. From the Society. 



Pest. A. Magyar Tudomanyos Akademia Jegyzokonyvei. 1863 — 4 — 5. From 



the Royal Hungarian Academy of Science. 



Magyar Akademiai Ertesito. 1859—1865. From the Royal Hungarian 



Academy of Science. 

 Mathematikai es Termeszettudomanyi Koslemenyek vonatkozolag v hazai 

 viskonyokra I, II, III, Kotet, 1861—5. From the Royal Hungarian 

 Academy of Science. 

 M. Tudom. Akademiai Almanach 1864 — 5 — 6. From the Royal Hun- 

 garian Academy of Science. 

 Prag. Sitzungsberichte der K, B. Gesellschaft der Wissenschaften in Prag 



1867. Jan. — Dec. From the Society. 



Abhandlungen der K. B. Gesellschaft der Wissenschaften vom Jahre 

 1867, 6ste Folge ler Band, 1868. From the Society. 

 Regensburg. Correspondenz-Blatt des Zool.-Mineralogischen Vereins in Re- 

 gensburg. 21st year. Verzeichniss der Sammluugen des Zool. Mineral. 

 Vereins in Regensburg, 1867. Both from the Society. 

 Flora Oder allgemeine botanische Zeitung. Published by the Royal Bava- 

 rian Botanical Society of Regensburg. New Series, vol. 25, 1867. From 

 the Society. 

 Stettin. Entomologische Zeitung. Herausgegeben von dem Entomologischen 



Vereine zn Stettin. 28er Jahrg., 1867. From the Society. 

 Stuttgart. Neues Jahrbuch fiir Mineralogie, Geologie und Palaeontologie. 

 Jahrg., 1867, 6es Heft, to 1858, 5es Heft. From the Editors. 

 Jahreshefte des Vereins fur vaterlandische Naturkunde in Wurttemberg. 



23er Jahrg., 1867. From the Society. 

 Wurttembergische Naturwissenschaftliche Jahresheft; 24er Jahrg., les und 

 2es Heft, 1868. From the Editors. 

 Wien. Sitzungsberichte der K. Akaderaie der Wissenschaften. Mathematisch- 

 Naturwissenschaftliche Classe, 54er Band, V Heft, 1 and 2 Abth, 

 to 56er Band, 5 Heft, 2e Abth. From the Society. 

 Denkschriften der K. Akademie der Wissenschaften, Mathematisch 

 Naturwissenschaftliche Classe, 26er und 27er Banden, 1867. From the 

 Society. 




404 



DONATIONS TO LIBRARY. 



Jahrbuch der K. K. Geologischen Reichsanstalt, Jahrg. 1867. 17 Band. 



Nos. 2—4; 1868, Nos. 1 — 2. From the Society. 

 Verhandlungen der K. K. Zoologisch botanischen Gesellschaft in Wien. 



Jahrg. 1867. XVII Band. From the Society. 

 Verhandlungen der K. K. Geologischen Reichsanstalt. 1867, Nos. 10 — 



13; 1868, No. 1. From the Society. 

 Wiesbaden. Jahrbiicher des Nassauischen Vereins fiir Naturkunde. 19es und 



20es Heft, 1864—1866. From the Society. 

 Wurzburg. Verhandlungen der Physicalisch-Medicinischen Gesellschaft in 



Wurzburg. Neue Folge, 1 Band, 1 Heft, 1868. From the Society. 

 Naturwissenschaftliche Zeitschrift, Herausgegeben von der Physikalisch- 



Medicinischen Gesellschaft. 6er Band, IV Heft, 1866—67. From the 



Society. 



SWITZERLAND. 



Basel. Verhandlungen der Naturforschenden Gesellschaft in Basel. 4er Theil, 



4es Heft, 1867. From the Society. 

 Bern. Mittheilungen der Naturforschenden Gesellschaft in Bern aus dem 



Jahren., 1856—1867. 1856—1858. From the Society. 

 Geneva. Actes de la Societe Helvetique des Sciences Naturelles, 1841-43-46- 



52-53-61. From the Society. 

 Bulletin de la Societe Ornithologique Suisse. Tome 1, 2e Partie, and 



Tome 2, Ire Partie, 1866. From the Society. 

 Bibliotheque Universelle et Revue Suisse, Archives des Sciences Physi- 

 ques et Naturelles. Nouvelle Periode. Tome SOme, No. 119, to Tome 



33, No 130, 1867. From the Editors. 

 Lausanne. Bulletin de la Society Vaudoise des Sciences Naturelles. Vol. 



IX, Nos. 51 and 58, 1868. From the Society. 

 Neuchatel. Bulletin de la Soci^t^ des Sciences Naturelles de Neuchatel. VII, 



part 3, 1867. From the Society. 

 St. Gallen. Bericht iiber die Thiitigkeit der St. Gallischen, Naturwissenschaft- 



lichen Gesellschaft wahrend des Vereinsjahres, 1866-67. 1867. From 



the Society. 

 Zurich. Verhandlungun der Schvreizerischen Naturforschen. Gesellschaft bei 

 _ ihrer Versammlung zu Zurich, 1841-42. 1846-51; 1854, 1856—1858, 



1861—1864, 1867. From the Society. 



BELGIUM. 



Bruxelles. Annales Meteorologiques de I'Observatoire Royale de Bruxelles, 

 Par A. Quetelet. Ire Annee, 1867. From the Observatory. 



Annuaire de I'Academie Royale des Sciences, des Lettres, et des Beaux- 

 Arts de Belgique, 1868. 34 me Ann^e. From the Academy. 



Bulletins de I'Academie Royale des Sciences, des Lettres et des Beaux- 

 Arts de Belgique. 36me Annee, 2me Ser., T. XXIV, 1867. From the 

 Academy. 



Memoires Couronn^s et Autres Memoires publics par I'Academie Royale 

 des Sciences, &c., de Belgiques. Collection in 8vo. Tomes 19 and 20. 

 Quarto, Tome 33, 1868. From the Society. 

 Louvaiu. Annuaire de I'Universit^ Catholique de Louvain, 1868. 32e Annee. 



From the Society. 

 Mons. Memoires et Publications de la Socidt^ des Sciences des Arts et des 

 Lettres du Hainaut. Mons 1868, III Serie, Tome 2eme. From the 

 Society. 



FRANCE. 



Angers. Memoires de la Soci^t^ Imperiale d'Agriculture, Sciences et Arts d' 

 Angers. New Series, 1867. Parts 3 and 4. From the Society. 

 Memoires de la Societe Academique de Maine et Loire, 19me and 20me 

 Vols., 1866. From the Society. 




DONATIONS TO LIBRARY. 405 



Bordeaux. Memoires de la Soci^t^ des Sciences Physiques et Naturelles de 



Bordeaux. Tome V, Paris 1867, 2e et 3e Cahier et Extraits des 



Proces-Verbaux. From the Society. 

 Caen. Memoires de I'Academie Imperiale des Sciences, Arts et Belles Lettres 



de Caen, 1868. From the Society. 

 Lyon. Memoires de I'Academie Imperiale des Sciences, Belles-Lettres et Arts 



de Lyon. Classe des Sciences. Tome 16me. From the Society. 

 Orleans. Memoires de la Society d'Agriculture, Sciences, Belles-Lettres et 



Arts d'Orleans. Second Serie. Tome XI, No. 2, to 1868, Part I. From 



the Society. 

 Paris. Bulletin Mensuel de la Society Imperiale Zoologique d'Acclimatation. 



2me Serie, Tome IV, No. 12, to Tome V, No. 10. From the Society. 

 Revue et Magasin de Zoologie pure et appliquee Par M. F. E. Guerin- 



Meneville. 1867, No. 12, to 1868, No. 7 and Nos. 9 — 11. From the 



Editor. 

 Annales des Mines. 6me S^rie, Tome XI, 2e Livr, XIII, and 3re Livr. 



From the Minister of Public Works, France. 

 Memoires de la Soci6t6 Nationale et Central d'Agriculture. Annees 1848 to 



1865. Twenty-five volumes, 8vo. From the Societj-. 

 Bulletin des Seances de la Soci^te Imperiale et Centrale d'Agriculture de 



France. Eleven volumes, 8vo 1856 — 1868. From the Society. 

 Journal de Conchyliologie. 3e Serie, Tome VIII, Nos. 1 — 3, 1868. From 



the Editors. 

 Nouvelles Archives du Museum d'Histoire Naturelle de Paris. 2me Ease, 



Tome 4 me, 1868. From the Library Fund. 

 Actes de I'Academie Imperiale des Sciences, Belles-Lettres et Arts de 



Bordeaux. 3e Serie, 29e Annee, 1867, 2me — 4me Trimestre, 1867. From 



the Society. 

 Journal de I'Anatomie et de la Phys. de I'Homme et des Animaux, public 



par M. Chas. Robin. Nos. 1 to 5, 1868. From the Wilson Fund. 

 Memoires de I'Academie Imperiale des Sciences, Belles-Lettres et Arts de 



Lyons, Classe des Lettres. Tome 13me, 1866-68. From the Society. 

 Annales de la Soci^t^ Linneenne de Lyon. Annee, 1867. Tome 15me, 



1868. From the Society. 

 Annales de la Society Entomologique de France. Tome 7me, 1 — 4 



Trimestre, 1868. From the Society. 

 Annales des Sciences Naturelles. 5me Serie, Botanique. From Tome VII, 



No. 3, to Tome VIII, No. 6. Zoologie, Tome VIII, Nos. 1—6. From the 



Library Fund. 



ITALY. 



Bologna. Rendiconto delle session! dell' Accademia delle Scienze dell Istituto 



di Bologna, Anno Accademico 1865 — 1867. From the Society. 

 Memorie dell' Accademia delle Scienze dell Instituto di Bologna. Serie II. 



Tome V, Fasc. 3 and 4. Tome VI, Nos. 1—4, 1866-67. From the So- 

 ciety. 

 Catania. Atti dell' Accademia Gioenia di Scienze Naturali in Catania. Serie 



Terza, Tomo 1. 1867. From the Society. 

 Naples. Societa Reale di Napoli Rendiconto dell' Accademia delle Scienze, 



Fisiche e Mathematiche. Anno IV, Fasc. 4, to Anno VI, Fasc. 5. From 



the Society. 

 Atti deir Accademia delle Scienze, Fisiche e Mathematiche. Vol. 11, 1865. 



From the Society. 

 Palermo. Giornale di Scienze Naturali ed Economiche 1867. Vol. Ill, Parts 



1 — 4. 1867. From the Royal Technical Institute, Palermo. 

 Torino. Memorie delle Reale Accademia delle Scienze di Torino. Serie Sec- 



onda, Tomo XXIII. 1866. From the Society. 

 Atti della R. Accademia delle Scienze di Torino. Vol. II, Disp. 4 — 7. 



1867. From the Society. 




406 DONATIONS TO LIBRARY. 



PORTUGAL. 



Lisboa. Journal de Sciencias, Mathematicas, Physicas e Naturaes, publicado 

 sob as auspicios da Academia Real das Sciencias de Lisboa. Nums. I 

 and II. 1866-67. From the Society. 



SPAIN. 



Madrid. Anuario del Real Observ^atorio de Madrid. Anno VIII, 18G8. From 

 the Observatory. 



GREAT BRITAIN AND IRELAND. 



Dublin. The Journal of the Royal Dublin Society. No. 36. 1867. From the 



Society. 

 Edinburgh. Proceedings of the Royal Society of Edinburgh. Session 1866-67. 

 Vol. VI, No. 71. From the Society. 

 Transactions of the same. Vol. XXIV, Part 3, for the Session 1866-67. 



From the Society. 

 Transactions of the Botanical Society. Vol. IX, Part 1, 1867. From the 



Society. 

 Proceedings of the Royal Physical Society. Sessions 1862 — 1865. From 

 the Society. 

 Glasgow. Transactions of the Geological Society of Glasgow. Vol.11, Part 

 3, 1867. From the Society. 

 Proceedings of the Philosophical Society of Glasgow. Vol. VI, Nos. 1, 2 

 and 3. 1865—1867. From the Society. 

 Leeds. Philosophical and Literary Society. The Annual Report for 1867-68. 

 From the Society. 

 Report of the Geological and Polytechnic Society of the West Riding of 

 Yorkshire. 1867, 1868. From the Society. 

 London. Proceedings of the Royal Society. Vol. XVI, Nos. 95 to 99. From 

 the Society. 

 Journal of the same. Vol. II, Part 5. 1868. From the Society. 

 Transactions of the same. Vol. 157, Part 2. 1867. From the Society. 

 Royal Horticultural Society's Proceedings. Vol. I, New Series, Nos. 9 — 



11. From the Society. 

 Quarterly Journal of Microscopical Science. New Series. Nos. 29 to 31. 



From the Library Fund. 

 The Journal of the Royal Asiatic Society of Great Britain and Ireland. 



New Series. Vol. Ill, Part 1. 1867. From the Society. 

 The Journal of Anatomy and Physiology. Second Series, Nos, 1 and 2. 



From the Library Fund. 

 Journal of the Society of Arts and the Institutions in Union. Vol. XV. 



1866-67. From the Society. 

 The Journal of the Chemical Society. Oct., 1867, to Sept., 1868. From 



the Society. 

 The Student and Intellectual Observer. Nos. I to XI. From the Library 



Fund. 

 Proceedings of the Scientific Meetings of the Zoological Society of London 

 for the year 1867. Parts II and HI. 1868, Part I. From the Society. 

 Transactions of the same. Vol. VI, Parts 4 — 7. From the Society. 

 Proceedings of the Royal Institution of Great Britain. Vol. IV, Part 3, 



and Vol. V, Parts 1 to 4. From the Society. 

 The Journal of the Linnean Society. Botany, Vol. IX, No. 40, Vol. X, 

 Nos. 41—47. Zoology, Vol. X, Nos. 36 to 42. 1867-68. From the 

 Society. 

 The Transactions of the Linnean Society of London. Vol. XXVI, Part the 



First. 1868. From the Society. 

 The Journal of the Royal Geographical Society. Vol. 37. 1867. From 

 the Society. 




DONATIONS TO LIBRARY. 407 



Proceedings of the same. Vol. XI, No. 3, to Vol. XII, No. 4. From the 



Society. 

 The Annals and Magazine of Natural History. Vol. XX, No. 117, Third 



Series, to Vol. II, No. 11, Fourth Series. 1867. From the Library Fund. 

 The London, Edinburgh and Dublin Philosophical Magazine and Journal 



of Science. Vol. 34, No. 229, to Vol. 36, No. 244. From the Library 



Fund. 

 Notes and Queries. Aug., 1867, to Oct., 1868. From the Editor. 

 Triibner's American and Oriental Literary Record. Nos. 31, 32, 34, 37 



and 39. Jan., 1868. From the Publishers. 

 The Athenffium Journal. Nos. 2093 to 2110, and 2119 to 2131. 1867-68. 



From the Library Fund. 

 Journal of the Statistical Society of London. Vol. XXXI, Parts 2 and 3. 



From the Society. 

 The Popular Science Review. Edited by Henry Lawson, M.D. Nos. 26 — 



29. From the Library Fund. 

 The Ibis, a Quarterly Journal of Ornithology. New Series, Nos. 12 to 15. 



Edited by Alfred Newton, M.A. From the Library Fund. 

 Publications of the Palffiontological Society. Vols. XIX— XXI. 1868. 



From the Wilson Fund. 

 The Journal of Travel and Natural History. Vol. I, Nos. 1—4, 1868. From 



the Library Fund. 

 The Quarterly Journal of the Geological Society. Vol. XXIII, Parts 4 and 



5; Vol. XXIV, Parts 1—3. Nov. 1, 1867. From the Society. 

 New Castle upon Tyne. Transactions of the Tyneside Naturalists Field Club. 



Vol. I, Pts. 1—3, 5 ; Vol. II, Pt. 4 ; Vcl. IIF, Pts. 1—4 ; Vol. IV, Pts. 1 



—4; Vol. V, Pt. 1 ; Vol. VI, Pt. 2. 1848—1864. From the Society. 

 Natural History Transactions of Northumberland and Durham. Vols. I 



and II. From the Natural History Society, Northumberland. 



UNITED STATES. 



Boston. Bulletin of the Public Library of the City of Boston. No. 7, 1868. 

 From the Trustees. 

 Proceedings of the Boston Society of Natural History. From Vol. XI, 



p. 209, to Vol. XII, p. 80. From the Society. 

 Memoirs read before the same. Vol. I, Pt. 3, 1868. From the Society. 

 Condition and Doings of the same. May, 1868. From the Society. 

 Annual of the same. 1868-69. I. From the Society. 

 Buffalo. Thirty-second Annual Report of the Executive Committee of the 



Young Men's Association of Buffalo. 1868. From the Association. 

 Cambridge. Proceedings of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. 

 Vol. VII, pp. 185—344. From the Society. 

 Memoirs of the same. New Series. Vol. IX, Pt. 1. 1867. From the So- 

 ciety. 

 First Annual Report of the Trustees of the Peabody Museum of American 

 Archaeology and Ethnology. 1868. From the Trustees. 

 Chicago. The Pharmacist. Vol. I, Nos. 1 and 2. 1868. From the Editor. 

 Transactions of the Chicago Academy of Sciences. Vol. I, Part 1. 1867. 

 From the Society. 

 New Haven. The American Journal of Science and Arts. Second Series. 



Nos. 133 to 128. From the Editors. 

 New York. Annals of the Lyceum of Natural History. Vol. VIII, Nos. 15, 16, 

 17. 1867. From the Lyceum. 

 New York Medical Journal. Feb., 1868. Vol. VI, No. 5, to Vol. VIII, No. 3. 



From the Editors. 

 The Chemical News and Journal of Physical Science. Vol. II, No. 1,'to 

 Vol. Ill, No. 2, and Vol. Ill, Nos. 5 and 6. Jan., 1868. From Messrs. 

 Townsend and Adams. 

 American Journal of Mining. Vol. V, Nos. 7 to 26. 1868. From the 

 Editor. 




408 



DONATIONS TO LIBRARY. 



The American Athenaeum. April 11th and 25th, and May 2d. From the 



Publisher. 

 The Galaxy : an Illustrated Magazine. Vol. V, No. 5. May, 1868. From 

 the Publishers. 

 Philadelphia. Proceedings of the Academy of Natural Sciences. 1867, No. 4, 

 to 1868, No. 3. From the Publication Committee. 

 The American Journal of Medical Sciences. Edited by Isaac Hays, M.D. 



Nos. 110, 111 and 112. New Series. From the Editor. 

 The Dental Cosmos. New Series. Vol. X, Nos. 1 to 12. From the 



Editor. 

 Transactions of the Odontographic Society of Pennsylvania. Vol. 1, 



1864. From the Society. 

 The Medical News and Library, 1868. From the Editors. 

 The Gardener's Monthly, edited by Thos. Meehan. Vol. X, Nos. 1 to 12. 



From the Editor. 

 The American Journal of Conchology, 1867. Vol. 3, No. 3. to Vol. 4, 



No. 3. From the Publication Committee. 

 Proceedings of the American Philosophical Society. Vol. X, Nos. 78 and 



79. From the Society. 

 American Journal of Pharmacy. Vol. 40, Nos. 1 to 6. Third Series. 



March 1868. From the Editor. 

 Proceedings of the American Pharmaceutical Association at the Fifteenth 

 Annual Meeting, held at New York City, Sept., 1867. From the Asso- 

 ciation. 

 Transactions of the Medical Society of the State of Pennsylvania at its 



19th Annual Session. Fifth Series, Part I, 1868. From the Society. 

 Transactions of the American Entomological Society. Vol. I, Nos. 3 and 



4; Vol. 2, No. 1. From the Society. 

 Forty-fifth A.nnual Report of the Mercantile Library Co., of Philada., 



January, 1868. From the Mercantile Library Co. 

 Lippincott's Magazine. Vol. 1, No. 1. Jan., 1868. From the Editor. 

 Salem. The American Naturalist. From Vol. 1, No. XI, to Vol. 2, No. X. 

 1868. From the Library Fund. 

 Proceedings of the Essex Institute. Vol. 5, Nos. 5 to 7, 1867. From the 

 Society. 

 San Francisco. Proceedings of the California Academy of Natural Sciences. 

 Vol. Ill, Part V, 1867. From the Society. 

 Memoirs presented to the California Academy of Sciences. Vol. 1. Pt. 1. 

 Catalogue of Pacific Coast Mosses. By Leo Lesquereux, 1868. From 

 the Society. 

 St. Louis. The Transactions of the Academy of Science of St. Louis. Vol. 



2,1861—1868. From the Society. 

 Warrenton, N. C. Transactions of the 15th Annual Meeting of the Medical 

 Society of the State of North Carolina, held at Warrenton, N. C, 20th 

 May, 1868. From the Society. 

 Washington. Reports of the National Academy of Sciences, 1868. From the 

 Academy. 

 Monthly Report of the Director of the Bureau of Statistics, Treasury De- 

 partment. From Oct. 26, 1867 to Aug., 1868. From the Department. 

 Worcester. Proceedings of the American Antiquarian Society, Oct. 21, 1867. 

 From the Society. 

 Proceedings of the same, with reference to the death of Hon. Levi Lin- 

 coln. From the Society. 



CANADA. 



Montreal. The Canadian Naturalist and Geologist. New Series. Vol. Ill, 

 Nos. 3 and 4. May, 1867. From the Editor. 

 Second Annual Report of the Montreal Sanitary Association, 1868. From 

 the Association. 




DONATIONS LO LIBRARY. 409 



Toronto. The Canadian Entomologist. Vol. I, Nos. 1 and 3, 1868. From 

 the Editors. 

 The Canadian Journal of Industry, Science and Arts. New Series, No. 

 66, Dec. 1867. From the Editors. 



CUBA. 



Habana. Repertorio Fisico Natural de la Isla de Cuba. Director Felipe Poey, 

 Tomo II, Nos. 8 to 20. From the Editor. 



SOUTH AMERICA. 



Santiago. Anales de la Universidad de Chile. Seven volumes, from 1860 — 

 1866. From the University of Chile. 

 Annuario Estadistico de la Republica de Chile, Entrega 2 — 7, 1861-65. 

 From the University of Chili. 



ASIA. 



Batavia. Natuurkundig Tijdeschrift voor Nederlandsch Indie, Uitgegeven 



door de Koninklijke Natuurkundige Vereeniging in Nederlandsch Indie. 



Deel 29, Zesde Serie, Deel IV. Afl. 2—4, 1866. From the Society. 

 Bombay. The Journal of the Bombay Branch of the Royal Asiatic Society. 



No. XXIV, Vol. VIII, 1865-66. From the Society. 

 Calcutta. Memoirs of the Geological Survey of India. Palreontologia Indica. 



V, 1 — 4, VI, Parts I and II, 1867. From the Society. 

 Annual Report of the same. Eleventh year 1866-67. From the Survey. 

 Shanghai. Journal of the North China Branch of the Royal Asiatic Society. 



New Series. No. IV, Dec, 1867. From the Society. 



OTHER SCIENTIFIC ^VORKS. 



Addenda to last Edition of Gray's Manual of Botany. From the Author. 

 Agassiz, Mr. and Mrs. Louis. A journey in Brazil. 8vo. Boston, 1868. From 



the Wilson Fund. 

 Alder and Hancock. Notices of some new and rare British species of naked 

 Mollusca. From Alabany Hancock through the Conchological Section. 

 Additions to the British species of Nudibranchiate Mollusca. Fi'om the 



same. 

 Remarks on the genus Eolidina of M. de Quaterfages. From the same. 

 Notice of a collection of Nudibranchiate Mollusca made in India by 



Walter Elliot. 4th Tract. From the same. 

 Descriptions of two new species of Nudibranchiate Mollusca. From the 



same. 

 Notice of some new species of British Nudibranchiata. From the same. 

 Report on the British Nudibranchiate Mollusca. London, 1845. From the 



same. 

 Descriptions of a new Genus of Nudibranchiate Mollusca, with some new 



species of Eolis. From the same. 

 Descriptions of Pterochilus, a new genus of Nudibranchiate Mollusca and 

 two new species of Doris. From the same. 

 Allen, Harrison. Outlines of Comparative Anatomy and Medical Zoology. 



Philada., 1869. From the Author. 

 American Ethonology. A paper on a general society for the study of Ameri- 

 can Antiquities. From the Publishers. 

 Amunategui, M. L. Descubrimiento i Conquista de Chile, Santiago, 1862. 



From the University of Chili, 

 Annual Report of the Surgeon General U. S. A., 1868. From the Surgeon 

 General. 




410 



DONATIONS TO LIBRARY. 



Annual Mortuary Report of the Board of Health of the City of New Orleans, 



from the 1st of Jan. to the 31st of Dec., 1867. From the Board of 



Health. 

 Barnes. Map of Philadelphia. From the Library Fund. 

 Barrande, J. Cephalopodes Siluriens des Orthoceres. Prague, 1868. From 



the Author. 

 Barrio, Don Paulino de. Noticia obre el Terreno Carbouifero de Coronel J. 



Lota. Santiago, 1857. From the University of Chili. 

 Bell, A. M. Visible Speech ; the science of Universal Alphabetics. 1 vol. 



and two pamphlets. From the Author. 

 Benecke, E. W. Geognostisch-Palaontologische Beitrage. Erster Band, III 



Heft. Miinchen, 1868. From the Library Fund. 

 Benoit, L. Illustrazioni sistematico critica Iconografica de Testacei Estra- 



marini della Sicilia ulteriore e delle Isole circostanti. Quaderno 1 — 4. 



Napoli, 1857. From the Author, through the Conchological Section. 

 Bentham, Geo. Handbook of the British Flora, 8vo. London, 1868. From 



the Library Fund. 

 Bergh, R. Anatomisk Undersogelse Sancara Quadrilateralis. Kjobenhaven, 



1863. From the Author, through the Conchological Section. 

 Bigsby, J. J. Thesaurus Siluricus, the Flora and Fauna of the Silurian 



Period. With addenda. London, 1868. From the Author 

 Biographies des Membres de la Soci4t4 Imperiale et Centrale d' Agriculture de 



France, 1848—1853. From the Society. 

 Bischoff, Dr. Th. L. W. Ueber die Brauchbarkeit der in Verschiedenen Euro- 



paischen Staaten VerofFentlichten Resultate des Recrutirungs Ges- 



chiiftes ; Munchen, 1867. From the Royal Bavarian Academy. 

 Blanford, Wm. T. On Opisthostoma, Blanford. From the Author, through 



the Conchological Section. 

 Bland, Thos. Notes on certain Terrestrial Mollusca, with description, of new 



species. From the Author, through the Conchological Section. 

 Bodley, R. L. In Memoriam. Isaac Barton, Philada., 1868. From the 



Authoress. 

 Boheman, H. Monographia Cassididarum. 4 vols., 8mo. Holmiae, 1850-62. 



From the Library Fund. 

 Boot, F. Illustrations of the Genus Carex. Part Fourth. London, 1867. 



From the Library Fund. 

 Bourguignat, M. F. R. Mollusques nouveaux, litigieux ou peu connus. 5me 



et 8me Fasc. Paris, 1865. From Geo. W. Tryon, Jr., through the Con- 

 chological Section. 

 Bowling, W. K., M.D. Historical Address to the Graduating Class of 1868, 



in the Medical Department of the University of Nashville. 2d edition. 



Nashville, 1868. From the Author. 

 Briseuo, Don R. Estadistica Bibliografica de la Literatura Chilena. Santiago 



1862. From the University of Chili. 

 Bronn, H. G., Dr. Continued by Dr. Gerstacker. Klassen nnd Ordnungen des 



Thier Reich's; Vol. 5, Parts 5 and 6, Leipzig and Heidelberg, 1868. 



From the Wilson Fund. 

 Brot, Dr. A. Etudes sur les Coquilles de la Famille des Nayades qui habitent 



le Bassin du L^man. Bale et Geneva, 1867. From the Author, 



through the Conchological Section. 

 Materiaux pour servir a I'Etude de la Famille des Melaniens additions et 



Corrections au Catalogue Systematique des especes qui composent la 



Famille des Melaniens. Geneve, 1868. From the Author. 

 Brown, Robt. Miscellaneous Botanical Writings. Ray Society, London, 1867. 



From the Wilson Fund. 

 Brush, G.eo. J. On Sussexite. From the Author. 

 Brusina, S. Prinesci Malakologiji Hrvatskoi. From the Author, through the 



Conchological Section. 

 Burat, M. A. Traite du gisement et d'exploitation des Mineraux Utiles Ire. and 



2re Partie. Paris, 1858-59. From the Wilson Fund. 




DONATIONS TO LIBRARY. 411 



Capello, F. de B. Descripcao de Algumas especies Novas ou pouco con- 



hecidas de Crustaceos e Arachnidions de Portugal e possessoes Portu- 



guezas do Ultramar. Liaboa, 1866. From the Author. 

 Descripcao de Tres Especies Novas de Crustaceos da Africa Occidental. 



Lisboa, 1864. From the Author. 

 Carte, Alex., M.D. On the Anatomy of Balaenoptera rostrata. From the 



Author. 

 Catalogue of the Unios, Alasmodontas and Anodontas of the Ohio River and 



its northern tributaries, adopted by the Western Academy of Natural 



Sciences of Cincinnatti. From the Academy, through theConchological 



Section. 

 Gill, T. Systematic Arrangement of the Mollusks of the Family Viviparidse 



and others, inhabiting the United States. From the Author, through 



the Conchological Section. 

 Catalogue of the published Maps, Sections, Memoirs and other publications of 



the Geological Survey of the United Kingdom up to Oct., 1867. London, 



1867. From the Survey. 

 Catalogue of Books added to the Library of Congress from Dec. 1, 1866, to 



Dec. 1, 1867. Washington, 1868. From the Librarian of Congress. 

 Catalogue of Works in the Library of the American Entomological Society. 



Philadelphia, 1868. From the Society, 

 (■atalogue of Scientific Papers, 1800 to 1863. Completed and published by the 



Koyal Society of London. Vol. L London, 1867. From the Society. 

 Catalogue of Meteorites in the Museum of the Geological Survey of India. 



Calcutta, 1867. From the Survey. 

 Censo jeneral de la Republica de Chili levantado el 19de Abriel de 1865. San- 

 tiago de Chile, 1866. From the University of Chili. 

 Chalmas, Munier. Description d'un Nouveau Genre du Kemmeridge-Clay. 



From the Author. 

 Chapman, Jas. Travels in the Interior of South Africa, comprising fifteen 



years' Hunting and Trading. 2 Vols., 8vo. London, 1868. From the 



Library Fund. 

 Chevrier, F. Essai Monographique sur les Nysson du Bassin du L^man (In- 



sectes Hymenopteres). 1867. From the Author. 

 Chile bajo el Imperio de la Constitucion de 1828. Santiago de Chile, 1861. 



From the University of Chili. 

 Circular No. 1. War Department, Surgeon-General's Office. Report on Epi- 

 demic Cholera and Yellow Fever in the U. S. Army during 1867. AVash- 



ington, 1868. From ihe Surgeon General. 

 Clavis Poetica Antique Lingua septentrionalis quam e lexico poetico. Svein- 



bjornis Egilssonii collegit et in ordinem redegit Benedictus Grondal 



(Egilsson). Edidit Societas Regia Autiquariorum Septemtrionalium. 



Hafnise, 1864. From the Northern Society of Antiquaries. 

 Concha i Toro, M. Chile durante los Anos de 1824—1828. Santiago, 1862. 



From the University of Chili. 

 Contributions to the Ichthyological Fauna of Japan. 2 Vols. From Mr. Wm. 



M. Gabb. 

 Cook, G. Report of the State Geologist, Prof. Geo. Cook, for the year 1867. 



Trenton, N. J., 1869. From the Author. 

 Cox, J. C. A Monograph of Australian Land Shells. Sydney, 1868. From 



the Author, through the Conchological Section. 

 Crosse, H. Un MoUusque bien Maltraite, ou comment M. Victor Hugo com- 



prend I'organization du Poulpe. From the Author, through the Con- 

 chological Section. 

 Descriptions de Coquilles nouvelles. From the same. 

 Dahlborn, G. A. Hort Underrattelse om Skandinaviska Insekters. Lund, 



1857. From the Library Fund. 

 D'Arrest, H. L. Siderum Nebulosorum Observationes Havnienses. Havnise, 



1867. From the Royal Danish Society of Science. 




412 DONATIONS TO LiBRARY. 



Das Staatsbudget und das Bedurfniss fiir Kunst und Wissenschaft. Hannover, 



1866. From the Natural History Society. 



D«beaux, 0. Faune Malacologique de la Vallee de Bareges. From the Author, 



through the Conchological Section. 

 Diagnose d'une espece nouvelle d'Helix de File de Corse. From the 



Author, through the Conchological Section. 

 De Candolle, M. A. Lois de la Nomenclature Botanique. Paris, 1867. From 



the Library Fund. 

 Prodronius Systematis Naturalis regni vegetabilis. Pars 16, Fasc. 2. Paris, 



1868. From the Wilson Fund. 

 De Laporte, F. L., et H. Gory. Histoire Naturelle et Iconographie des Insectes 



Coleopteres, publiee par Monographies separees. 8vo. Text 4 Vols., 



Plates 2 Vols. Paris, 1837. From the Library Fund. 

 Deshayes, G. P. Note sur le genre Trochotoma. From the Author, through 



the Conchological Section. 

 Des Moulins, M. Ch. De la Classification de certaine Opercules de Gast^ro- 



podes. Bordeaux, 1867. From the Author. 

 Letter a Monsieur Frangois Crepin. Bordeaux, 1868. From the Author. 

 Des Principaux Fossiles recueillis par les members de la Socit^te a Caze- 



neuve. Bordeaux, 1868. From the Author. 

 Descriptions et Figures des quelques Coquilles Fossiles du Terrain tertiaire 



et de la craie. Bordeaux, 1868. From the Author. 

 Douati, Antonio D. Trattato de semplici, pietre, et Pesci Marini che Nascono 



nel lito de Venetia la maggior parte non conosciuti da Teofrasto, Dio- 



scoride, Plinio, Galeno et altri Scrittori. In Venetia, 1631. From 



S. S. Haldeman. 

 Dozyet Molkenbaur. Bryologia Javanica. Fasc. 55 — 67. Lugduni Batavorum, 



1867. From the Wilson Fund. 



Drouet, H. Mollusques terrestres et fluviatiles de la Cote d'Or. From the 



Author, through the Conchological Section. 

 Du Bocage, J. V. B. Sur quelques Mammiferes rares et pen connus d'Afrique 



occidentalis, qui se trouvent au Museum de Lisbonne. From the Author. 

 Noticea acerca des caracteres e afRnidades Naturaes de um Novo genera 



de Mammiferos Insectivoros da Africa occidental Bayonia Velox (Pota- 



mogale velox, Du Chaillu). Lisbea, 1865. From the Author. 

 Apontamentos para a Icthyologia de Portugal Peixes Plagiostomos. Pre- 



raeira Parte. Lisboa, 1866. From the Author. 

 Instruccoes practicas sobre o modo de colligir, preparar e remetter pro- 



ductos zoologicos para 0. Museo de Lisboa. Lisboa, 1862. From the 



Author. 

 Dubois, C. F. H. Oiseaux de I'Europe, suite aux Planches Colories des Oiseaux 



de la Belgique. 226— 233meLivrs. Bruxelles, 1867. From the Wilson 



Fund. 

 Dunker, Dr. W. Palasontographica. Beitrage zur Naturgeschichte derVorwelt. 



IBer Band, le Lief. Cassel, 1868. From the Wilson Fund. 

 Ehrenberg, C. G. Ueber die seit 27 Jahren noch wohl erhaltenen organisations 



Preparate des mikroskopischen Lebens. 4to. Berlin, 1862, From the 



Author. 

 Edwards, Wm. H. The Butterflies of North America. Part 1st. Philadelphia, 



1868. From the Author. 



Engelmann, G. Revision of the North American species of the Genus Juncus. 



St. Louis. From the Author. 

 Erdmann, A. Expos^ des Formations quaternaires de la Suede. Texte and 



Atlas. Stockholm, 1868. From the Author. 

 Erichson, W. F. Naturgeschicte der Insecten Deutschlands. Erste Abthei- 



lung. Coleoptera. Erster Band, 2e Halfte, le Lief. Berlin, 1868. 



From the Wilson Fund. 

 Five photographs of Inscription rock and one of Mushroom rock. From Edw. 



Miller. 




DONATIONS TO LIBRARY. 



413 



Fleury, A. L., Prof. Gold in an Amorphous and Chemically combined Con- 

 dition in Nature. Boston, 1868. From the Author. 

 Flint, A., M.D. The Physiology of Man. Alimentation ; Digestion ; Absorp- 

 tion ; Lymph and Chyle. New York, 1867. From the Wilson Fund. 

 Forrest, Capt, T, A Voyage to New Guinea and the Moluccas. 4to. London, 



1829. From M. J. D. Sergeant. 

 Fouque, M. Rapport sur les Tremblements de Terre de Cephalonie et de Metelin 



en 1867. From the Author. 

 Premier Rapport sur une Mission Scientifique a I'lle de Santoriu. From 



the Author. 

 Rapport sur les phenomenes Chimiques de I'Eruption de I'Etua en 1865. 



From the Author. 

 Fourteen Theses. From the University of Louvain. 

 Gassies, J. B. Malacologie terrestre et d'Eau douce de la region intra-littorale 



de I'Aquitaine. From the Author, through the Conchological Section. 

 Gastaldi, B., translated by C. H. Chambers. Lake Habitations and Pre-historic 



Remains in the Turbaries and Marl-beds of Northern and Central Italy. 



8vo. London, 1865. From the Library Fund. 

 Geinitz, Dr. Hanns Bruno. Die Fossilen Fischschuppen aus dem Planerkalke 



in Strehlen. From the Author. 

 Genth, F. A. Contributions to Mineralogy. From the Author. 

 Geological Survey of California. Geology. Vol. 1. 1865, From the Library 



Fund. 

 Palaeontology. Vol.11. Section 1, Part 1. Tertiary Invertebrate Fossils. 



Mining Statistics, No. 1. Geographical Catalogue of the MoUusca. From 



Mr. Wm. M. Gabb. 

 Geologist of Iowa, First and Second Annual Report of the. Desmoiues, Iowa. 



From the Author, Charles A. White, M.D. 

 Geological Survey of Canada. Report of Progress from 1863 to 1866. Ottawa, 



1866. From the Director. 

 Geological Maps of Sweden, four. From the Geological Bureau, Sweden. 

 Gerstaeker, Dr. A. Bericht liber die Wissenschaftlichen Leistungen im Ge- 



biete der Entomologie wiihrend der Jahre 1865 und 1866. Iste Halfte. 



Berlin, 1868. From the Library Fund. 

 Gervais, Paul. Zoologie et Palffiontologie gen6rales. Nouvelles Recherches 



sur les Animaux Vertebras dont on trouve les ossements enfouis dans le 



sol, etc. First Series, livraisons 3 — 7. Paris. From the Library Fund. 

 Gould, J. Birds of Great Britain ; Parts XI and XII. Birds of Australia, 



Supplement; Part IV. Birds of Asia; Part XIX. From the Wilson 



Fund. 

 Graesse, J. G. T. Tresor de Livres rares et precieux. Supplement. Ire Partie. 



Tome VIII, Livr. 11. Dresde, 1867. From the Wilson Fund. 

 Grassies, J. B. Malacologie terrestre et d'Eue Douce de la region intra littorale 



de I'Aquitaine. Paris, 1867. From the Author. 

 Grote, A. R., and C. T. Robinson. Notes on the North American Lepidoptera 



contained in the British Museum, and described by Francis Walker. 



From the Authors. 

 Descriptions of American Lepidoptera. No. 3. From the Author. 

 Guichenot, M. Catalogue des Scarides de la Collection du Musee de Paris. 



From the Author. 

 Notice sur une Nouvelle Espece de Poissons appartenant an Genre des 



Rhombes du Museum de Paris. From the Author. 

 Catalogue des Poissons de Madagascar de la Collection du Musee de Paris. 



From the Author. 

 Guldberg et Waage. Etudes sur les affinites Chimiques. Chrisliania, 1867. 



From the University of Christiania. 

 Gunther, C. L. G. The Record of Zoological Literature, 1866. Vol. III. 



London, 1867. From the Library Fund. 

 Gunther, A. Catalogue of the Fishes in the British Museum. Vol. VII. Lon- 

 don, 1868. From the Wilson Fund. 




414 DONATIONS TO LIBRARY. 



Gyula, Spiegler. Uj Modszer az adott szambol annak Termeszetes Logarith- 

 musat, es viszont, Logarithmusi Tablak Nelkul Kiszamitani. A Magyar 

 Akademia elebe terjesztette Spiegler Gyula. Pest, 1858. 

 Hancock, A. Notes on Buccinum undatum. From the Author, through the 

 Conchological Section. 

 Notes on the Excavating Sponges. From the same. 

 On the Anatomy of Antiopa Spinolse. From the same. 

 On certain points in the Anatomy and Physiology of the Dibranchiate 



Cephalopoda. From the same. 

 On the Anatomy of Doriopsis. From the same. 

 On the Organization of the Brachiopoda. From the same. 

 Haines, W. A. Catalogue of the Terrestrial Shells in the Collection of Wm. 



A. Haines. From the Author, through the Conchological Section. 

 Hancock and Embletoa. On the Anatomy of Eolis, a genus of Mollusks of 

 the order Nudibranchiata. From Albany Hancock, through the Con- 

 chological Section. 

 On the Anatomy of Doris. From the same. 

 Hayes, Dr. I. I. The Progress of Arctic Discovery. From the Author. 

 Heer, Dr. 0. Flora fossilis Arctica. Zurich, 1868. From the Library Fund. 

 Hentz, N. M. Edited by Samuel H. Scudder. Supplement to the descriptions 



of the Araneides of the United States. From the Editor. 

 Hewitson, Wm. C. Exotic Butterflies. Parts 65-67. From the Wilson Fund. 

 Illustrations of Diurnal Lepidoptera. Part 3, Lycsenidae. London, 1867. 

 From the Wilson Fund. 

 Hidalgo, Dr. J. G. Catalogue des Mollusques Testaces Marins des Cotes de 

 I'Espagne et des Isles Baleares. From the Author, through the Con- 

 chological Section. 

 Historio Jeneral de la Republico de Chile. Santiago de Chili, 1866. From 



the University of Chili. 

 Hogg, J. The Lingual Membrane of Mollusca and its value in Classification. 



From the Author, through the Conchological Section. 

 Hoopes, J. The book of Evergreens. 8vo. New York. From the Author. 

 Homes, Dr. M. Die Fossilen Mollusken des Tertier Beckens, von Wien ; Vol. 

 2. Nos. 7 and 8, Bivalves. Published by Imperial Geological Society 

 of Vienna. From the Society. 

 Hyatt, Alph. Observations on Polyzoa, sub-order Phylactolsemata. From the 



Author, through the Conchological Section. 

 Investigation of the Distance of the Sun. From Dr. Hassler. 

 Jan, Prof, et M. F. Sordelli. Iconographie Generale des Ophidiens. 23me 



to 28me Livr. From the Wilson Fund. 

 Koch, Dr. L. Die Arachniden-Familie der Drassiden. 7er Heft. Nurnberg, 



1867. From the Library Fund. 

 Krause, Dr. W. Die Anatomic des Kaninchens. Leipzig, 1868. From the 



Library Fund. 

 Kubinyi Ferenz. A Teve 6s L6 Kubinyi Ferenez Pesten, 1859. From the 



Hungarian Academy of Science. 

 Kuhn, JI. Felices Africante Lipsite, 1868. From the Library Fund. 

 Larroque, Don L. Imforme sobre los Depositos de Guano de Mejellones. 



Santiago, 1863. From the University of Chili. 

 Layard, E. L. The Birds of South Africa, Cape Town, 1867. From the Library 



Fund. 

 Lea, Isaac. Descrii)tions of 12 new species of Uniouidce from S. America, &c. 



From the Author. 

 Le Clerc, 0. H. Bibliotheca Americana. Paris, 1867. From Messrs. Wester- 



mann & Co. 

 Le Conte, J. L., M.D. Notes on the Geology of the Survey for the Extension 

 of the Union Pacific Railway, from the Smoky Hill River, Kansas, to the 

 Rio Grande. Philad., 1868. From the Author. 

 Lehmann, M. Description des Insectes recueillis, par M. Menetries. St. Peters- 

 burg, 1848. From the Library Fund. 




DONATIONS TO LIBRARY. 415 



Lesley, J. P. Man's Origin and Destiny, sketched from the platform of the 



Sciences. Philada., 1868. From Joseph Jeanes. 

 Lindstom. Om Gotlands Nutida MoUusker. From the Author, through ihe 



Conchological Section. 

 List of the Vertebrated Animals living in the Gardens of the Zoological 



Society of London. London, 1868. From the Society. 

 Mackenzie, G. S. Travels in the Island of Iceland during the Summer of the 

 year 1810. 2nd ed. 4to. Edinburgh, 1812. From Mr. J. D. Sergeant. 

 Malmgren, Dr. A. J. Annulata Polycha;ta Spitsbergiae Groenlandire, Islan- 

 dis, et Scandinavia hactenus coguita. Helsingforsiae, 1867. From the 

 Author. 

 Massalongo A. Studii sulla Flora Fossile e Geologia Stratigrafica del Seni- 



galliese. Imola, 1859. From the Library Fund. 

 Marcou, J. Une ascension dans les Montagues Rocheuses. Paris, 1867. From 

 the Author. 

 Distribution Geographique de L'Or et de I'Argent aux Etats Unis et dan? 

 les Canadas. Paris. From the Author. 

 Marsh, Prof. 0. G. Observations on the Metamorphosis of Siredon into Am- 

 blystoma. From the Author. 

 Notice of a new species of Fossil Horse. From the Author. 

 On the origin of the so-called Lignilitis or Epsomites. From the Author. 

 Martens, E. V. Die Preussiche Expedition nach Ost-Asien, Zoologische Abthei- 

 luug. Erster Band. Iste Halfte. 2er Band. Berlin, 1865, 1867. From 

 the Library Fund. 

 Martini und Chemnitz. Systematisches Conchylien Cabinet Fortgesetzt von 

 H. Kuster. Vol. 1, Part 78. Nurnberg, 1868. From the WUson Fund. 

 Mayer, Joseph. Address to the members of the Historic Society of Lancashire 



and Cheshire. Liverpool, 1868. From the Author. 

 Meigs, J. A., .M. D. Correlation of the Physical aud Vital Forces. An Inaugu- 

 ral Address. Philada., 1868. From the Author. 

 Mejer, 0. L. Die Veranderungen in dem Bestande der hannoverischen Flora 



seit, 1780, nachgewiesen. Hannover, 1867. From the Author. 

 Melloni, M. Elettroscopio del. Napoli, 1854. From the Author. 

 Melsheiraer, F. E. Catalogue of the described Coleoptera of the United States. 

 Revised by S. S. Haldeman and J. L. Le Conte. Washington, 1853. 

 From the Library Fund. 

 Meteorologiske Jagttagelser paa Christiana Observatorium for 1866, Chris- 

 tiana, 1866, 1857. From the University of Christiania. 

 Milde, J. Felices Europre et Atlantidis Asiae Minoris et Sibirife. Lipsiae, 1867. 



From the Wilson Fund. 

 Miquel, F. A. G. Annates Musei Botanici Lugduno Batavi. Tome 1, Fasc. 

 IX and X. Tome 2 and Tome 3, Fasc. 1—5. Amstelodami, 1867. From 

 the Museum. 

 Milne-Edwards, M A. Recherches anatoraiqucs et paleontologiques pour 

 servir a I'histoire des Oiseaux Fossiles de la France. Livrs. 11 — 22. 

 Paris, 1807. From the Library Fund. 

 Recherches anatomiques, zoologiques et paleontologiques sur la Famille 



des Chevrotians. Paris, 1864. From the Author. 

 De la Famille des Solanac^es. Paris 1864. From the Author. 

 Le Baccalaureat en Sciences Histoire Naturelle. Paris, 1864. From the 



Author. 

 De I'Existence de I'homme pendant la Periode Quateruaire dans la Grotta 



Lourdes. Paris, 1862. From the Authors. 

 Observations sur I'Appareil respiratoire de quelques Oiseaux. From the 



Author. 

 Descrifition de quelques Crustaccs nouveaux appartenaut a la Tribu des 



Maines. From tlie Author. 

 Sur la faune Ornithologiqne de I'epoque quateruaire. From the Author. 

 Revision des Crustaccs Macroures de la Famille desAtyoidees. From 

 the Author. 



28 




416 DONATIONS TO LIBRARY. 



Sur un cas de Transformation du Pedoncule oculaire en une Antenna 



observe chez une Langouste. From the Author. 

 Note sur un Crustace d^crit comme fossile et qui vit encore aujourd hui 



dans I'Ocean Indien. From the Author. 

 Histoire des Crustaces Podophthalmaires Fossiles. Paris, 1861. From 



the Author. 

 Etudes Zoologiques sue les Crustaces Recents de la Famille des Portuni- 



ens. Paris, 1861. From the Author. 

 De rinfiuence de la proportion de phosphate de Chaux contenu dans les 

 Aliments sur la Formation du Callous. Paris, 1856. From the Author. 

 Etudes Chimiques et Phjsiologiques sur les Os. Paris, 1860. From the 



Authors. 

 Observations sur I'Existence de divers Molhisques et Zoophytes a de tres 

 grandes profondeurs dans la Mer Mediterranee. Paris, 1861. From the 

 Author. 

 Lecons sur la Physiologic et Anatomic Comparee de I'Homme et des 

 Animaux. Tome 9me, Ire Partie. Paris, 1868. From the Library 

 Fund. 

 Rapport sur les Progres recents des Sciences Zoologiques en France. 

 Paris, 1867. From the Library Fund. 

 Mitchell, S. W. Experimental Contributions to the Toxicology of Rattle- 

 snake Venom. New York, 1868. From the Author. 

 Molkenbaur. Bryologia Javanica, Fasc 53 and 54. From the Wilson Fund. 

 Morch, 0. A. L. Faunula Molluscorum Insularum Faeroensium. From the 

 Author, through the Conchological Section. 

 Abreg6 de I'histoire de la Classification modern des MoUusques, basee 

 principalement sur Tarmature Linguale. From the Author. 

 Alorelet, A. MoUusques terrestres et fluviatiles par Arthur Morelet, 1868. From 

 the Author. 

 Voyage du Friederich Welwitsch execute par ordre du Gouvernment 

 Portugais dans les Royaumes d'Angola et de Benguella. MoUusques 

 Terrestres et fluviatiles. Paris, 1868. From the Author. 

 Morgan, L. H. The American Beaver and his works. Philadelphia, 1868. 

 From the Library Fund. 

 A Conjectural Solution of the Origin of the Classificatory System of 

 Relationship. Cambridge, 1868. From the Author. 

 Mortillet, G. de. Materiaux pour L'histoire positive et philosophique de 

 I'honime ; 3rd year. No. 9, to 4th year. No. 9. Paris, 1868. From the 

 Librarj^ Fund. 

 ^Morse, Edw. S. Observations on the Terrestrial Pulmonifei^ of Elaine. From 

 the Author, through the Conchological Section. 

 Description of new species of Pupada;. From the same. 

 Synopsis of the Fluviatile and Terrestrial Mollusca of the State of Maine. 

 From the same 

 Mueller, Dr. C. Walpers. Annales Botanices Systematicse. Tomi Septimi. 



Fasc T. Lipsise, 1868. From the Wilson Fund. 

 Munier-C'halmaa, Description d'un nouveau genre du Kimmeridge-Clay. 



From H. Crosse, through tlie Conchological Section. 

 National Department of Education. Cir-cular No. 13. Washington, 1868. From 



the Department. 

 Neilreich, Dr. Aug. Diagnosen der in Ung~arn und Slavonien bisher beo- 

 bacJateten Gefiisspfianzen welche in Koch's synopsis nicht entlaalten 

 sind. Wien, 1867. From the Author. 

 Newcomb, S. On the Secular Variations aiid Mutual Relations of the Orbits 



of the Asteroids. Cambridge, 1860. From Dr. Hassler. 

 . Nichol, R. The Sugar Insect, Acarus sacchari, found in raw sugar. From the 



Author. 

 Norges Officielle Statistik udgiven i Aarets 1866-67. Ten pamphlets. From 



the University of Christiania. 

 Norris, T. American Fish Culture, embracing all the details of artificial 

 breeding and rearing of Trout, the culture of Salmon, Shad and other 

 Fishes. Philadelphia, 1868. From the Author. 




DONATIONS LO LIBKABY. 417 



Notice sur les cartes geologiques de Victoria (Australie) et des lies Brittan- 



niques. Paris, 18G8. From the Autlior. 

 Observaciones Meteorologicas efectuadas en el Real Observatorio de Madrid. 



iMadrid, 1868. From the Observatory. 

 Oratoria Sagrada. Tomo 1. Santiago, 1866. From the University of Chili. 

 Paladilhe. Nouvelles Miscellanees Malacologiques. ler Fase. Paris, 1866. 



From the Author, through the Conchological Section, 

 PaljKontologie Frangaise, ou description des Animaux Invertebres fossiles de 

 la France. Terrain Cr^tace, Livr. 2-i. Terrain Jurassique, Livrs. 13 

 and 14. From the Wilson Fund. 

 Parker, W. K. A Monograph on the Structure and Development of the shoul- 

 der Girdle and Sternum in the Vertebrata. London, 1868. Published 

 by the Ray Society. From the Wilson Fund. 

 Second copy of the same. From the Royal Society. 

 Paulucci, M. Description d'un Murex fossile du Terrain Tertiaire Subappenia 

 de la Yallee del'Elsa. From H. Crosse, through the Concholog'l Section. 

 Payne, M. The Institutes of Medicine. 8th edition. New York, 1867. From 



the Author. 

 Peabody Institute of the City of Baltimore. The Founder's Letters, &c. Bal- 

 timore, 1868. From the Institute. 

 Petenji S. Janos. Hatrahagyott Munkai Irta Kubinyi Ferinze. Pest, 1864. 



From the Royal Hungarian Academy of Science. 

 Peters, W. C. H. Naturwissenschaftliche Reise nach Mossambique. Zoologie, 



IV, Flussfische. Berlin, 1868. From the Library Fund. 

 Petzholdt, Dr. A. Das Torflager von Awandus im Kirchspiele St. Simons in 



Ehstland. From the Author. 

 PfeilFer, Dr. L. Novitates Conchologicfe. Land Conchylien. 27 to 32e Lief. 



Cassel, Venus, pp. 87 — 126. From the Wilson Fund. 

 Philpson, Dr. T. L. The Utilization of Minute Life. London, 1868. From the 



Library Fund. 

 Pictet, F. J. Melanges PaliBontologiques. 4me Livr. Bale et Geneve, 1868. 



From the Library Fund, 

 Portlock, J. E. Report of the Geology of the County of Londonderry and of 

 parts of Tyrone and Fermanagh. Dublin, 1843. From the Survey of 

 the United Kingdom. 

 Pratt, N. A. Ashley River Phosphates. Philadelphia, 1868. From the Author. 

 Public Ledger Building, Philadelphia, with an account of the proceedings 

 connected with its opening, June 20, 1867. Philadelphia, 1868. From 

 Geo. W. Childs. 

 Quaterfages, AL Observation sur une brochure de M. Ed. Clapar^de, intitulee 



De la structure des Aun61ides. From the Author. 

 Rabenhorst, L. Flora Europ.'ea Algarum Aguaj dulcis et submarinse. Sectio 



III. Lipsi», 1868. From the Library Fund. 

 Rawson, Governor C. B. Report on the Bahamas Hurricane of Oct., 1866, 



with a description of the city of Nassau, N. P. From the Author. 

 Redfield, J. H. Chart of the Bahamas Hurricane of October, 1866. From the 



Author, 

 Reeve, L. Conchologia Iconica, Parts 266 to 273. From the Wilson Fund. 

 Reichenbach, H. G. Xenia Orchidacea. 2er Band., 5es und 6es Heft. Leipzig, 



1868. From the Wilson Fund, 

 Reichenbach, H. T. L. Monograph ia Pselaphorum dissertatio Entomologica. 



Lipsiae. From the Library Fund. 

 Report of the Librarian of Congress for the year ending Dec. 1, 1867. From 



the Author. 

 Report of the Commissioner of the General Land Office for the year 1867. 



Washington, 1867. From the Land Office. 

 Report of the Secretary of the Navy, Dec, 1868. Washington. From the 



Navy Department. 

 Resumen de las observationes Meteorologicas. Madrid, 1867. From the Ob- 

 servatory. 




418 DONATIONS TO LIBRARY. 



Rico V Siiiobas, Don Manuel. Libros del Saber de Astronomia del Rey D. 

 " Alfonso X. de Castilla. Vol. V, Part 1. Madrid, 1867. From the 



Royal Academy, Madrid. 

 Rosenhauer, W. G. Die Thiere Andalusiens. 8vo. Erlangen, 1856. From 



the Library Fund. 

 Saussure, H. De. Reise der Osterreichischen Fregatte Novara urn die erde in 



den Jahren 1857, 1858, 1859. Zoologischer theil, 2er Band. Hymenop- 



tera. Wien, 1867. From the Royal Vienna Academy. 

 Necrologie de M. Louis Necker. From the Author. 



Note Supplementaire sur les Mammiferes du Mexique. From the Author. 

 Schlegel, M. H. Recherches sur la Faune de Madagascar et de ses dependances. 



Mammiferes et Oiseaux. Livrs. 1, 2 et 3. Leyde, 1867. From the Li- 

 brary Fund. 

 Schmidt, A. System der Europaischen Clausilien und ihrer nachsten Ver- 



wandten. Cassel, 1868. From Geo. W. Tryon, Jr., through the Concho- 



logical Section. 

 Schneider, Dr. P. Topographische Anatomic des Vorderhalses beim Kaninchen 



und der Kehlkopf desselben. Berlin, 1868. From the Library Fund. 

 Schrenck, Dr. L. Reisen und Forschungen in Amur Lande in den Jahren 



1854-56. Vol. II, Part 3. Mollusca of the Amur and North Japan Seas. 



St. Petersburg, 1867. From the Wilson Fund. 

 Schultze, M. Untersuchungen iiber die Zuzammengesetzten Augen derKrebse 



und Insecten. Bonn, 1868. From the Library Fund. 

 Schumann, J. Die Diatomeen der hohen tatra. Wien, 1867. From the Li- 

 brary Fund. 

 Schyanoff, Alex. Essai sur la Metaphysique des Forces inherentes a I'essence 



de la Matiere. 2me Ed. Kiew, 1868. From the Author. 

 Sclater P. L. , and Osbert Salvin. Exotic Ornithology. Parts IV— VII, 1867 



-68. From the Library Fund. 

 Scudder, S, H. Notes on the Stridulation of some New England Orthoptera. 



From the Author. 

 Entomological Notes. No. 1. From the Author. 



Supplement to a list of the Butterflies of New England. From the Author. 

 Sheafer, P. W. Iron, Railroad, Canal and Coal Map of Pennsylvania. From 



the Author. 

 Silliman, B. On the existence of the Mastodon in the deep-lying gold placers 



of California. From the Author. 

 Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge. Vol. XV. Washington, 1867. From 



the Smithsonian Institution. 

 Smithsonian Report for 1867. From the Smithsonian Institution. 

 Snellen, P.O. T. De Vlinders van Nederland Macrolepidoptera. Systematisch 



beschreven, 1867. From the Library Fund. 

 Snowden, J. R. A Description of Ancient and Modern Coins in the Cabinet 



Collection at the Mint of the United States. Prepared and arranged 



under the direction of James Ross Snowden. Philadelphia, 1860. From 



the Author. 

 The Medullic Memorials of Washington in the Mint of the United States. 



Philadelphia, 1861. From the Author. 

 Souverbie and Montrouzier, Conchological Papers by, from Journal de Con- 



chyliologie. From the Authors, through the Conchological Section. 

 Squier, E. G. Quelqnes remarques sur la Geographic et les Monuments du 



Perou. Paris, 1868. From the Author. 

 Stabile, J Description de quelqnes Coquilles Nouvelles on pen Connues. 



From the Author, through the Conchological Section. 

 Statistical Tables, Treasury Department. No. 19. From the Department. 

 Stearns, R. E. C. Conchological Memoranda. No. 3. From the Author, 



through the Conchological Section. 

 Steindachner, Dr. F. Allgemeine Bemerkungcu iiber die Siisswasserfische Spa- 

 niens und Portugal und Revision der einzelnen Arten. From the Author. 

 Szaba, J. Pest Buda Kornj^ekenek foldtani Leirasa. Peslen, 1858. From the 



Hungarian Academy of Science. 




DONATIONS TO LIBRARY. 419 



Sztoczek, Jozsef. Utasitas MeteorolvgiaiEszleletekre. Pest, 18G1. From the 



Hungarian Academy of Science. 

 Tageblatt der 41 Versammlung Deutscher Naturforsclier und Aerzte in Frank- 



furt-a-m. Vom 18 bis 24. Sept. 1868. From the Society. 

 The Origin of the Material Universe. Boston, 1850. From Wm. Warren. 

 Tristram, H. B. The Land of Israel ; a Journal of Travels in Palestine. Lon- 

 don, 1866. From the Library Fund. 

 Troschel, F. H. Das Gcbis der Schnecken. Zweitzer Bandes, 2e Lief. Berlin, 



1868. From the Wilson Fund. 

 Tryon, Geo. W., Jr. Pholadacea, Part 1st. Solenida; and Mactridae, by T. A. 



Conrad. Catalogue and Synonymy of the Genera, Species and Varieties 



of recent MoUusca described prior to Jan. 1, 1867. Philadelphia, 1867. 



From the Publication Committee of the Conchological Section. 

 Monograph of Terrestrial Mollusca. Nos. 5 and 6. From the Publication 



Committee of the Conchological Section. 

 Ueber die sogenannte Leukothea in der Glyptothek Sr. Majestat Konig Lud- 



wigs. Munchen, 1867. From the Royal Bavarian Academy. 

 Ueber einige altere Darstellungen der Deutschen Kaiserzeit. Munchen, 1867. 



From the Royal Bavarian Academy. 

 Valderrama, A. Bosquejo historico de la Poesia Chilena. Santiago, 1866. 



From the University of Chili. 

 Verreaux, E. Catalogue de la Collection Ornithologique delaMaison Verreaux. 



Paris, 1868. From the Author. 

 Von Cotta, B. Rocks classified and described : a treatise on Lithology. An 



English edition, by Philip IJ. Lawrence. 8vo. London, 1866. From 



the Library Fund. 

 Von Meyer, H. Palwontographica. Beitrilge zur Naturgeschicte derVorwelt. 15er 



Band, 6ste Lief ; 17er Band, le Lief. Cassel, 1868. From the Wilson Fund. 

 Von Tschudii, J. J. Reisen durch sud Amerika. 3er und 4er Baud. Leipzig, 



1867. From the Library Fund. 



Wall, G. P., and J. S. Sawkins. Report on the Geology of Trinidad. London, 



1860. From the same. 

 Wellsted, J. R. Travels to the City of the Caliphs. 2 Vols., 8vo. London, 



1840. From Mr. J. D. Sergeant. 

 Wienkauff, H. C. Die Conchylien des Mittelmeeres ihre geographische und 



geologische Verbreitung. Band I, Mollusca acephala ; Band II, Mollusca 



cephaia. From the Library Fund. 

 Williamson, R. S. Professional papers of the Corps of Engineers, U.S. Army. 



No. 15. On the Use of the Barometer on Surveys and Reconnaisances. 



New York, 1868. From the Author. 

 Wilson, Geo. Memoirs of Edw. Forbes, F.R.S., by Geo. Wilson and Archibald 



Geikie. London, 1861. From the Library Fund. 

 Winnertz, J. Beitrag zu einer Monographic der Sciarineu. Wien, 1867. From 



the Library Fund. 

 Wolf's Zoological Sketches. Second Series, Parts 11 and 12. From the Wil- 

 son Fund. 

 Wood, Rev. J. G. Routledge's Illustrated Natural History of Man. Parts 2 — 



18. London, 1868. From the Library Fund. 

 Worthen, A. H. Geological Survey of Illinois. Vol. III. Geology by A. H. 



Worthen; Pala;ontology by F. B. Meek and A. H. Worthen. Chicago, 



1868. From A. H. Worthen. 



W^-man, J. An Account of some of the Kjoekkenmoeddings, or Shell heaps, 

 in Maine and Massachusetts. From the Author. 

 An Account of the Fresh-water Shell-heaps of the St. John's River, East 



Florida. Salem, Mass., 1868. From the Author. 

 On Symmetry and Homology in Limbs. Boston, 1867. From the Author. 

 Observations on Crania. Boston, 1868. From the Author. 

 Yersin. Recherches sur les Fonctions du Systeme Nerveux dans les Animaux 

 Articules. From the Author. 




420 



INDEX TO GENERA. 



INDEX TO GENERA. 



Ablepharus 284 



Accipiter 82, 149 



Acer 140 



Acontias 284 



Acrantus 284 



Acris 282 



Actiturus 150 



Actinocrinus 326 



Acupalpus 373 



Adocus 235 



Aegialitis 84, 150 



Agelacrinites 357 



Agalychnis 246, 282 



Agama 283 



Agaphelus 159, 193, 223 



Agelaius 84 



Agonoderus 373 



Alca 3, 51 



Alces 298 



Alligator 210 



Allium 170 



Alloprosallocriuus 352 



Alytes 270 



Alsophis 312 



Amblyrbiza 313 



Amblystoma 247, 276, 287 



Ameiva 99, 127, 275, 284 



Amia 294 



Amiurus 27 i 



Ammodytes 228 



Ammonites 177, 287 



Ampelis 149 



Amphibamus.. 210 



Amphiglossus 284 



Amphisbaena 101, 307 



Amphoracrinus 347 



Anchippodus 232 



Aiicbippus 231 



Anchitherium 231, 248 



Auculosa 153 



Ancyloceras 287 



Andrias 298 



Andromeda 154 



Andropithecus 286 



Anelytrops 284 



Anguis 284 



Anisoterma 284 



Anodonta 94, 146, 150 



Anolis 97, 507, 312 



Anomalopus 284 



Anophtbalmus 86 



Antennaria , 153 



Anthus 82, 149 



Autrostomus 149 



Anura 254 



Aprasia 284 



Arctica 3 



Aquila 82 



Area 94 



Archaeopteryx ., 269 



Arcbegosaurus 210 



Arctomys 298 



Ardea 150 



Arvicola 2 



Ascoceras 287 



Aspidonectes 298 



Aspredo , 286 



Ateles 289 



Atelopus 116 



Athene 149 



Atretium 309 



Atthia 82 



Aublysodon 198 



Auk 274 



Aulastomum 229 



Auriparus 83 



Axis 247 



Baculites 286 



Bal«na 159, 233 



Bala?noptera 159, 192, 222 



Bapbetes 221 



Baridius 361 



Barjerinus 338 



Basiliscus 97, 282 



Bathygnatbus 199, 241 



Batocrinus 349 



Batracboseps 276 



Batracbyla 291 



Beluga 250 



Bernicla 84 



Bidens 275 



Blastocerus 247 



Blepbaractisis 284 



Boa 101 



Bombinator 270 




INDEX TO GENERA. 



421 



Borborocsetes 250 



Bos 298 



Brachvdectes 214, 215 



Brachylophus 283 



Brachjmeles 284 



Brachjrhamphus 6, 60 



Brachypus 284 



Brach'yteles 286 



Brachymerus 291 



Brachyurus 286 



Llradj'cellus 379 



Brevoortia 173 



Brimosaurus 92 



Brodiaea 172 



Bronchocela 283 



Bubo 149 



Bufo 115, 138, 250 210 



Buteo 149 



Csecilia 118, 209, 254 



Cffitia 284 



Calamospiza 83, 150 



Calochortus 167 



Callidryas 91 



Callipepla 150 



Calliprora 172 



Callula 251 



Calotes 283 



Calyptocephalus 250 



Cardinalis 84 



Camassia 170 



Cambala. 86 



Campsodactylus 284 



Campy lorhynclius 83, 149 



Cinclidium 274 



Canis 298 



Cardinalis 150 



Cariacus 247 



Carpodacus 83 



Cassiaa 281 



Castor 298 



Cataractes 3, 8 



Cathartes 82 



Catillocrinus 343 



Catostoma 131, 189 



Celestus 123, 273, 284 



Centemodon 221 



Centropyx 98, 119, 284 



Centrotelma 274 



Centurus 82, 149 



Cephalanthus 184 



Ceraterpeton 275 



Ceratoblepliarura 7 



Ceratorhyncha 28, 274 



Ceratophrys 250 



Cercopithecus 286 



Cercosaura 284 



Cervus 247, 298 



Cervle 149 



Cetophis 184 



Cerorhina '? 



Centrarchus 274 



Chalcis 284 



Chamieleo 316 



Clianiffisaura 284 



Chelomeles 284 



Chelydra 96, 298 



Chelys 289 



Ohenalopex 3, 8 



Chiamela 284 



Cliilabothrus 312 



Chiloraeniscus 289 



Chimerina 6 



Chionactis 289 



Chiroleptes 250 



Chiroraantis 272 



Chlorogalum 173 



Choiulestes 83, 149 



Clionespondylus 178 



Chordeiles 82, 149 



Clirvsomitris 83, 149 



Cici'gna ■ 284 



Cimoliasaurus 92, 181 



Cinclidium Ill 



Cinnamonum 148 



Cinosternum 282 



Cirrochroa 89 



Cistudo 119, 282 



Cladobates 285 



Claudius 119 



Clethra . 154 



Clidastes 181, 233 



Cnemidophorus 284 



Coccocrinus 325 



Coccygus 149 



Coelosaurus 241 



Collyrio 149 



Colobus 286 



Colophrj'S 130 



Colostethus 137 



Colymbus 4, 12 



Comatula 325 



Compsognathus 269 



Clintonia 174 



Coniophanes 104, 308 



Conopliis 308 



Conosaurops 202 



Conosaurus 200 



Contia 289 



Contopus 149 



Coranus 277 



Coreopsis 275 



Corvus 84, 150 



Cotyle 149 



Crioceras 287 



Crocodilus 96, 179 



Crotalocrinus 325 



Crotalus 298 




422 



INDEX TO GENERA. 



Crotaphytus 283 



Uryptoblepharus 284 



Cryptomeria 181 



Cultripes 249, 279 



Cupellcccrinus 325 



Cyanospiza 150 



Cyathocrinites 336 



Gyathocrinus 324 



Cyclodus 284 



Cyclorliarapus 250 



Cyclorrhyaclius 6 



Cyclura 283 



Cymbospondylus 178 



Cyuocepbalus 286 



Cynorca 185 



Cyperus 148 



Cyrtoceras 286 



Cystignathus 115, 281, 311 



Dama 247 



Delnia 284 



Delpbinapterus 186, 189 



Delpbinus 197, 186 



Dendrei-peton 210, 212, 215 



Deudrobates 291 



DendiTEca 83, 359 



Dendroica 149 



Dermatemys 119 



Desuiognatbus 276 



Diodia 184 



Dircenna 89 



Discoglossus 270 



Diploglossus 284, 311, 98, 123 



Diporopbora 283 



Diprotodou 286 



Dipsas 146 



Dineutus 365 



Dinicbtbys 215 



Dinodoii 197, 198 



Dinotberium 250 



Uidelpbys 285 



Didocus 249, 279 



Dibamus 284 



Dicbocrinus 343 



Dicbelostemma 173 



Dicotyles 230 



Ditcyocepbalus 221 



Dolicbosoma 215 



Uoliosaurus 283 



Dorycrinus 344 



Draco 282 



Drepanodon 198 



Dromicus 103 



Ecpleopus 284 



Elephas 251, 292 



Elaps 109, 288, 307 



Elasmosaurus 93, 313 



Elotberiura 177 



Embernagra 150 



Emydes ..-. 176 



Ernys 119, 176, 180 



Empidonax 149 



Enueacautbus 274 



Enygrus , 101 



Eosaurus 177 



Epidalea 250, 270 



Epigtea 153, 183, 301 



Equus 175, 195, 248 



Erytbrolaiuprus 288 



Erytbronium 165 



Eremias 284 



Ei-emopbila 149 



Eretmocrinus 351 



Erennetes , 150 



Escbiicbtius 191 



Eucnemis 294 



Eumeces 284, 317 



Eupelor 221 



Euprepis 284 



Eusopbus 250 



Euspiza 150 



Euspondylus 99, 119 



Eutienia 134 



Evesia 284 



Falco 82 



Felis 175, 298 



Feylinia 284 



Ficus 148 



Forniicarius 285 



Formicivora 285 



Forsytbia 334 



Fiatercula 3, 6, 14 



Fritillaria 166 



Fulica 84 



Gaultberia 154 



Geococcvx 82, 149 



Geotblypis 149, 274 



Gerrbonotus 306 



Gerrbosaurus 284 



Globiocepbalus 250 



Glyptostrobus 182,275, 300 



Gompbobates 281 



Gongylns 284 



GouUoba 87 



Goniobasis 151 



Gouiodactylus 97 



Goniasteroidocrinus 323 



Gonyocepbalus 283 



Geotritoa 313 



Gius 150 



Gronias 274 



Guiraca 84, 150 



Gyrauoblepharum 7 



Gymiiopbtbalmus 284 



Gymnura 285 



Gyretes 365 




INDEX TO GENERA. 



42i 



Gyrinus 365 



Gyroceras 287 



Hadrosaiirus 199 



Halobates 277 



Hamites 287 



Harpagus 429 



Harporhynchus 83, 149 



Heliconius 91 



Helicops 308 



Helminthophaga 149 



Heraidactylus , 311, 320 



Hemimantis 281 



Hemioplites 274 



Hemicystites 357 



Hemiergus 284 



Hemiphractus 114 



Herpetocepbalus 215 



Herpetodryas 105 



Herpetosaura 284 



Hesperoscordium 171 



Heteromeles 284 



Heteroglossa 247, 272 



Heteropus 284 



Himantodes 109, 119 



Hinulia 284 



Hiplocercus 283 



Hirudo 229 



Holcosus 306 



Hoplobatrachus 281 



Hoplocetus 196 



Homo 287 



Hydraspis 119 



Hyla Ill, 119,281,246, 270 



Hvlambates 272,271, 281 



Hylella 111,246,281, 294 



Hylerpetoa 214 



Hvlobates 286 



Hylodes 291 



Hvlonomus 211 



Hyloraua 139,271, 272, 294 



Hyopotamus 233 



Hyperistius 274, 281 



Hyperolius 247, 272 



Hypsibates 97, 283 



Hypsibatus 119 



Hypsiboas 119 



Ichthyosaurus 177 



Icteria 83 



Icterus 84, 150 



Ictops 316 



Iguana 97, 283 



Iguanodon 199 



Iphisa 284 



Ixalus 247, 271 



Ixacanthus 159, 186 



Juniperus 181 



Lacerta 284 



La-laps 198, 237 



Laenianctus 283 



Lagomjs 2 



Lagothrix 286 



Lauius 285 



Larix 181 



Latonia 270 



Lepidosteus 254 



Lepidosiren 254 



Leptictis 315 



Lepidosoma 284 



Lepterpeton 215 



Leptodira 109, 310 



Leptognathus 107, 135, 289 



Leptomantis 272 



Leptopelis 281, 291 



Lepus 298 



Letheobia 322 



Lerista 284 



Lestodon 180 



Lichanura 2 



Limnocharis 137 



Liocephalus 97, 121 



Liolepis 283 



Liophis 102, 307 



Lithasia 153 



Lithodytes 115 



Lilium 166 



Lituites 287 



Liurus 320 



Lomvia 3, 7, 74 



Lopezia 155 



Lophiodon 232 



Lophodytes 85 



Lophophanes 149 



Lophortyx 84 



Lophura 282 



Loxodon 251 



Loxopholis 305 



Lunda 7, 25 



Luzula 156 



Lyca?na 87 



Lygopbis 132 



Lystris 312 



Mabuia 100 



Mabuya 311 



Macrochelys 282 



Macacus 286 



Majanthenum 174 



Mancus.. 284 



Masticophis 105, 134, 307 



iMastodon 175, 251 



Mechanitis 98 



Megalonyx 175, 179 



Megalocbilus 283 



Megalosaurus 198, 239 



Megaptera 193, 223 



Meleagris 84 




424 



INDEX TO GENERA. 



Melonites 359 



Molospiza 83, 149 



Menetia 284 



Menopoma 213, 298 



Mephitis 298 



Mergulus 3, 5, 10, 53 



Merychippus 248 



Merychyus 274 



Microlopbus 97 



Miculia 284 



Mimiis 149 



Mitchella 183 



Mixophyes 281 



Mocoa 284 



Molgophis 215, 220 



Moloch 283 



Molothrus 84, 150 



Morethia 284 



Mormon , 5 



Mustela 315 



Mycetes 286 



Myiarchus 149, 82 



Myiodioctes 83, 149 



Myoictis 285 



Nautilus 287 



Nectoportheus 181 



Nectui-us 208, 247, 276 



Neotoma. 86 



Nessia 284 



Notopholis 284 



Nototrema 281 



Ninia 101 



Nipterocrinus 341 



Nyctherodius 150 



Odoutostomum 174 



Oedura 318 



Oestocephalus 215, 218 



Oldenlandia 184 



Oligoporus 358 



Olisthenes 107, 119 



Ombria 6 



Oncocephalus 277 



Opheodes 284 



Opheomorphus 102, 289, 307 



Opheomorus 284 



Opheosaurus 284 



Ophibolus 288 



Ophiderpeton 215 



Ophiognomon 100, 284 



Ophryoessa 283 



Oporornis 274 



Otaspis 312 



Oreodon 274 



Oreoscoptes 149 



Orestias 294 



Orca 250 



Ornithorhynchus 269 



Orthoceras 286 



Ortyx 150 



Osmerus 93 



Osteocephalus 246, 250, 270 



Osteopygis - 147 



Ovibos"! 298 



Ovubum 326 



Oxybelis 107 



Oxyrhopes' 107 



Oxyrrhopus 288 



Palfechinus 359 



PalEeophis 147, 234 



Palitotherium 232 



Papilio 89 



Pariostegus 211 



Paroides 149 



Panaspis 317 



Panolopus 284 



Pelamis,.... 109 



Pelecanus 150 



Pelion 211 



Pelecanoides 10 



Pelobates 249,279, 250 



Pelomedusa 119 



Peltaphryne 250, 270, 311 



Pentadactylus 320 



Pentalopbodou 251 



Pentremites 356 



Peropus 319 



Perosuchus 203 



Peuctea 149 



Phtenopepla , 83 



Phaleris 6 



Phimothyra 310 



Phractops ... 250 



Phragraoceras 286 



Phrynocephalus 283 



Phrvnosoma 283 



Phyllobates 137 



Phyllodactylus 96, 137 



Physiguathus 283 



Picas 149 



Pinckneya 184 



Pinguinus 5, 16 



Piuus 182, 301 



Pipa 289 



Pipra 429 



Pipilo , 84, 150 



Pithecopsis 112, 119 



Platanus 148 



Platemys 298 



Platyceras 330 



Platycrinus 330 



Platysaurus 284 



Plectrophanes 149 



Plesiosaurus 92 



Pletholax 284 



Pleurosternum 119 



Pleuroslrichus 284 




INDEX TO GENERA. 



425 



Pliocercus 288 



Physalus 222 



Podiceps 85 



Podocnemis 282, 298 



Poecilopleurum 239 



Pohlia 117 



Polioptila 149 



Polypodium 182 



Pontogeneus 186 



Populus 148 



Posodonomya 177 



Poljborus 149 



Polychrus 282 



Polypedates 147, 271, 272, 291 



Polyptychodon 185 



Pooectes 83 



Poospiza 83, 149 



Poteriocrinus 336 



Proctotretus 120, 283 



Procyon 298 



Priscodelphinus 186, 187 



Prosartes 174 



Prostemma 277 



Prostherapis 137 



Proteus 254 



Pseudis 281 



Pseudopus 284 



Pseudotremia 86 



Ptenopus 320 



Ptycbocerus 287 



Ptychodus 205 



Ptychoramphns 7, 52 



Pygopodes 10 



Pygopus 284 



Pyranga 83, 149 



Pyrgus 87, 90 



Pyrocephalus 82 



Pyrrhuloxia 84, 150 



Pyrrhopyga 90 



Pyxicephalus 281 



Querquedula 84 



Quiscalus 150, 360 



Rana 117, 119, 246 



Rannla 117, 119, 246 



Regulus 149 



Retinospora 182 



Rhabdosoma 102, 288, 307 



Rhabdosteus 186 



Rhacophorus 272, 247, 271, 291 



Rhadiiifea 104, 132 



Rhamphoc?enus 285 



Rhinoceros 177 



Rhodona 284 



Rhynchocyclus 429 



Ristella 284 



Rusa 247 



Sagmatorrhina 7, 31, 274 



Salamandra 276 



Salpinctes 83, 149 



Sauresia 284 



Saurophis 284 



Sauropleura 215 



Sayornis 82, 149' 



Scapbiopus 249 



Scaphites 287 



Scardafella 150 



Scariis 251 



Scelotes 284 



Schizostoma 153 



Sciadopitys 182 



Sciurus 298 



Scolecophagus 150 



Scolecopbis 289 



Scytopis 246, 250, 270 



Semnopitbecus 286 



Sepomorpbus 284 



Seps 284 



Sepsina 284, 318 



Spatba 94 



Sialia 82, 149 



Siaphus 284 



Sibbaldius 193, 222 



Simla 286 



Simorbyncbus 7, 34 



Sipbonops 118 



Srnilacina 174 



Sonora 289 



Sorex 298 



Soridia 284 



Spea 249, 269 



Spelerpes. 247, 313 



Spermacoce 184 



Splienocepbalus 284 



Spbenops 284 



Spbeniscus 3 



Sphyrffina 93 



Spil'otes 105 



Spizella 83 



Staurois 247, 272 



Stellio 283 



Sternothajrus 119, 282 



Stegodon '. 251, 250 



Streptopus 174, 376 



Sturnella 84, 150 



Subertia 171 



Sylvia 285 



Sympbynota 146 



Syiibatbocrinus 323 



Syntbliborampbus 6, 55 



Tylorampbus 7 



Typhlops 119, 128,101, 312 



Typblosaurus 284 



Tyrannus 149 



Turdus 82, 149, 285 



Turrilites 287 




426 



INDEX TO GENERA. 



Tachymeiiis 104 



Tachyphonus 360 



Tautilla 102 



Taxodium 182, 275, 300 



Teius 99, 119 



Teleuraspis 110, 119 



Testudo 96, 119, 179 



Tetradactylus 284 



Thecacampsa 313 



Thecadactylus 97 



Thamnopliilus 285, 361 



Thrasops 106,309, 322 



Thryothorus 149 



Thylacoleo 285 



Thyridopteryx 278 



Thuja 181 



Thujopsis 181 



Tiaris 283 



Tinnunculus 149 



Titanotherium 233 



Tomodon 202 



Tomopterna 138, 281 



Toxoceras 286 



Trachodon 199 



Trachyboa 101, 119 



Trachycephalus... 250, 245, 270, 282 



Tretiosciucus 284 



Triccfilocriuus 356 



Trilophodou 251 



Tringa 150 



Trigonocephalus 110 



Tringites 150 



Triteleia... 171 



Triqueta 94 



Trochilus 82 



Trocliocerus 287 



Troglodytes 285 



Troostocrimis 356 



Tropidonotus 255, 319 



Trypbcropsis 117, 271, 272 



Trypanostoma , 152 



Ungalia 128 



Unio 94, 143, 150, 160 



Uria 3, 9, 67 



Urocordylus 215 



Uromastix 283 



Ursus, 298 



Utamauia 5, 11, 14, 18 



Vastres 294 



Velia 277 



Vireo 83, 149 



Wisteria 314 



Xantliocephalus 84, 150 



Xenodon 133, 289 



Xipliosoma 101 



Yucca 167 



Zenaidura 159 



Zenglodon 186 



Zonotrichia 83, 430 




GENERAL INDEX. 



427 



GENERAL INDEX. 



Allen, Harrison, Resignation as Cor- 

 responding Secretary, 85. 

 Amendment to By-Laws, IGO. 



Barton, Isaac, Announcement of death 



of, 142. 

 Brewster, Sir David, Announcement 



of death of. 91. 

 Butcher, H. B., List of Birds collected 



at Laredo. Texas, in 1866 and 1867, 



148. 



Committees for 1868, 85. 



Cope, Edw. D., Observations on ver- 

 tebrata from Lower California and 

 Nevada, 2 ; Election as Correspond- 

 ing Secretary, 85 ; Observations on 

 the living inhabitants of caves in 

 South-western Virginia, 85 : Re- 

 marks on a new Eualiosaurian, Elas- 

 mosaurus platyurns, 92 ; An ex- 

 amination of the Reptilia and Ba- 

 trachia obtained by the Orton Ex- 

 pedition to Equador and the Upper 

 Amazon, with notes on other spe- 

 cies, 96 ; On the characters of a 

 new genus of Cheloniidae, 147 ; On 

 the vertebroe of a serpent from the 

 green sand of New Jersey, 147 ; On 

 the fresh-water origin of certain 

 deposits in west New Jersey, 157 ; 

 On extinct Cetacea from the Mio- 

 cene bed of Maryland, 159 ; On new 

 species of extinct Reptiles, 181 ; 

 Second contribution to the history 

 of the vertebrata of the Miocene 

 Period of the United States, 184; 

 On the Crocodilian genus Pero- 

 suchus, 203 ; S3'nopsis of the Ex- 

 tinct Batrachia of North America, 

 208; On Agaphelus, a genus of 

 toothless Cetacea. 221 ; Sixth con- 

 tribution to the Herpetology of 

 Tropical America, 305 ; Remarks on 

 extinct Reptiles, 313; Observations 

 on Reptiles of the Old World, Art. 



11,316; On some Cretaceous Rep- 

 tilia, 233 ; On the Origin of Genera, 

 242. 



Correspondence for 1868, 394. 



Coues, Elliott, A Monograph of the 

 Alcidse, 2 ; List of Birds collected 

 in Southern Arizona, by Dr. E. Pal- 

 mer, with remarks, 81. 



De Serres, Marcel, Announcement of 



death of, 87. 

 Donations to Library, 400. 

 Donations to Museum, 396. 



Earp, Thos., Announcement of death 



of, 93. 

 Election of Officers for 1869, 392. 

 Elections during 1868, 393. 



Gabb, W. M., On Kitchen Middens 

 near San Francisco, 182 ; On Fossils 

 from the Amazon Valley, 183. 



Genth, Dr., Remarks on Tin ore from 

 Missouri, 142 ; On Cupriferous ores 

 in Texas, 227. 



Gilliams, Jac, Anouncement of death 

 of, 86. 



Grubb, Edw. B., Announcement of 

 death of, 1. 



Hagedorn, C. F., Announcement of 

 death of, 93. 



Hawkins, B. Watcrhouse, Proposition 

 to erect skeleton of Hadrosaurus, 

 204 ; Resolution of thanks to, 304. 



Lawrence, Geo. N,, Description of 

 seven new species of American 

 Birds from various localities, with a 

 note on Zonotrichia melanotis, 359. 



Lea, L, Description of nine new species 

 of Unionidae from Lake Nicaragua, 

 Central America, 94 ; Descrifition 

 of sixteen new species of the genus 

 Uuio of the United States, 143; 

 Notes on some singular forms of 

 Chinese species of IFnio, 145 ; De- 




428 



GENERAL INDEX. 



429 



scription of four new species of 

 exotic Unionidge, 150; Descriptions 

 of seven new species of Unio from 

 Nortli Carolina, 160 ; Descriptions 

 of two new species of Unionidae 

 from Equador, 161 ; Descriptions of 

 Unionidai frcm the Lower Creta- 

 ceous Formation of New Jersey, 162. 



LeConte, J. L., Analytical table of the 

 species of Baridius inhabiting the 

 United States, 361 ; The Gyrinidse 

 of America, north of Mexico, 365; 

 Notes on the species of Agonoderus, 

 Bradycellus and Stenolophus, in- 

 habiting America north of Mexico, 

 373. 



Leidy, Jos., Remarks on Sombrero 

 Guano, 156 ; Notice of some verte- 

 brate remains from Harden Co , Tex- 

 as, 174; Indications of an Elotherium 

 in California, 177^ Notice of some 

 Reptilian Remains from Nevada, 

 177 ; Notice of some Vertebrate Re- 

 mains from the West Indian Islands, 

 178; Notice of some remains of 

 Horses, 195 ; Notice of some extinct 

 Cetaceans, 196 ; Remarks on a jaw 

 fragment of Megalosaurus, 197; Re- 

 marks on Conosaurns of Gibbes, 200; 

 Extinct Mammalia of Dakota and 

 Nebraska, including an account of 

 some allied forms from other local- 

 ities, together with a synopsis of the 

 Mammalian Remains of Nortli 

 America, 205 ; Notice of American 

 species of Ptychndns, 205 ; On the 

 food of the Shad, 228; Notice of some 

 American Leeches, 229 ; Notice of 

 some remains of Extinct Pachy- 

 derms, 230; On supposed Coprolites 

 from the Huronian slates of Min- 

 nesota, 302 ; On the iridescence of 

 Opals, 303 ; On asterism in Mica, 

 313 ; On photograph of fossil bones 

 from Topeka, Kansas, 315; Notice 

 of some remains of extinct Insecti- 

 vora, from Dakota, 315. 



Lesquereux, Leo, On the fossil plants 

 of the coal formation of the south- 

 west, 147. 



Lyman, Benj. Smith, Remarks on a 

 bent Marble Stone, 91. 



McCall, Gen. Geo. A., Announcement 



of death of, 87. 

 Meehan, Thos., On the leaves of Coni- 



feras, 181 ; Mitchella repens, L, a 

 dioecious plant, 183 ; Sexual Law in 

 Acer dasycarpum Ehrb, 140 ; Va- 

 riations in Epigffia repens, 153 ; 

 Monoecism in Luzula campestris, 

 156 ; Variations in Taxodium and 

 Finns, 300 ; On seed-vessels of 

 Wisteria sinensis, 314 ; On the seed 

 vessels of Forsythia, 334. 

 Meek, F. B. and A. H. Worthen, Notes 

 on some points in the structure and 

 habits of the Palaeozoic Crinoidea, 

 323 ; Remarks on some types of 

 Carboniferous Crinoidea, with de- 

 scriptions of New Genera and spe- 

 cies of the same, and of one Echi- 

 noid, 335. 



Newkirk, Matthew, Announcement of 



death of, 159. 

 Norris, Thaddeus, Remarks on the 



new species of Osmerus,93. 



Rand, Theo. D., On a new Mineral in 



Cryolite, 142. 

 Reakirt, Tryon, Description of some 



new species of Diurnal Lepidoptera. 



Series III, 87. 

 Report of Librarian, 385. 

 Report of Recording Secretary, 387. 

 Report of Committee on Herpetology 



and Ichthyology, 387. 

 Report of Recorder of Conchological 



Section, 388, 

 Report of Secretary of Conchological 



Section, 389. 

 Report of Conservator of Conchologi- 

 cal Section, 390. 

 Report of Librarian of Conchological 



Section, 391. 

 Report of Curators, 383. 



Stevens, R. P., Remarks on the 

 Geology and Mineralogy of Vene- 

 zuela, 303. 



Turner, Theophilus H., Resolution of 

 thanks to, 314. 



Wagner, Tobias, Announcement of 



death of, 87. 

 Wells, Wm. A., On the spores of 



Polypodium vulgare, 182. 

 Wood, A., A sketch of the Natural 



Order Liliacese, 165. 

 Wright, J. A., Vote of thanks to, 93. 




Description of Seven Now Species of AMERICAN BIRDS from various locali- 

 ties, with a note on ZonotricMa melanotis. 



BY GEO. N, LAWRENCE. 



[Continued from page 359.]* 



5. RhYNCHOCYCLUS MAROINATtrS. 



Front, top of liead and hind neck dull plumbeous ; back, rump, smaller 

 ■wing coi;rerts and upper tail coverts of a clear olive green ; tail blackish brown 

 with edges the color of the back; larger wing coverts and quills black, 

 the primaries narrowly edged with'yellow, the other quill feathers and the 

 larger wing coverts broadly margined with clear light yellow ; under wing 

 coverts yellow ; chia, throat and upper part of breast gray ; middle and lower 

 part of abdomen and under tail coverts light yellow; sides olivaceous gray; 

 upper mandible black, the under whitish, clouded with brown; " irides 

 brown ;" tarsi and toes light brown. 



Length (fresh) 5J in.; wing 2 l-16th; tail 2; bill scant ^; tarsi 9-lGths. 



Habitat. — Panama. Lion Hill, near Aspinwall. Male and female alike. 

 Types in my collection. 



Remarks. — In my Catalogue of Birds from New Granada (Annals of Lye. of 

 Nat Hist. N. Y., Vol. vii, p. 473) this species is referred to R. sulphurescens, 

 Spix. I have always been impressed with a doubt of its correctness, and only 

 during the past summer was I enabled to make comparison with undoubted 

 specimens of R. fulp/ii/rescens fvom Brasil. They differ in the Brazilian bird 

 ■being larger, with the head Ic-'s plumbeous, the yellow of the under parts of a 

 deeper color and more extended, the throat only being gray, and the under 

 mandible of a much clearer color. 



■ It differs from i?, cinereicepis, Sol., which at first sight it much resembles, in 

 toeing smaller and of a darker green, not inclining to yellowish, as in that spe- 

 cies. It may be readily known by the broad yellow margins on the wing cov- 

 erts and quills. In this last character it is most like R. sulphurescens, but the 

 markings are paler and more conspicuous than in the specimens of that spe- 

 cies which I examined. 



6. PiPRA? CINNAMOMEA. 



The general plumage is of a clear cinnamon color, brighter on the rump and 

 tail, duller or somewhat brownish on the back and wing coverts, and paler on 

 the under surface ; the top of the head and occiput are of an olivaceous brown, 

 with a concealed crest of reddish orange ; the quills arc liver-brown, with an 

 edging of pale cinnamon on the outer webs; upper mandible dark brown, the 

 under whitish at base with the end brown ; tarsi and toes reddish brown. 



Length 4 in.; wing 2^ ; tail If; bill 5-16ths; tarsi ^. 



Habitat. — The Upper Amazon. Type in my collection. 



Remarks. — I have placed this species provisionally in Fipra, to which it most 

 nearly assimilates, but it has the wings shorter and the tail longer, relatively, 

 than in any other member of the genus I have been able to examine, and I 

 know of no other species resembling it in color. 



7. Harpagus FASdATrS. 



Plumage above blackish-brown, glossed with dark purple ; the tail is black- 

 ish-brown, crossed above with four narrow bars of grayish-white, and ending 

 with ashy-gray; the quills on the upper surface are umber-brown, crossed with 

 dusky K'lackish bars, and on the under surface are white for two-thirds their 

 length from the base, the remaining part ashy-gray, barred throughout with 

 blackish-brown ; the under wing coverts are buffy-white, spotted with dark- 

 •brown ; each feather of the entire under surface is closely barred with white, 

 Tufous and dark brown, the rufous color prevailing most on the breast and 



* This portion of the paper was inadvertently left out by the editor. 




430 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY. 



sides, less on the thighs, and scarcely showing on the middle of the abdomen ; 

 under tail coverts white ; the feathers of the upper part of the throat appear 

 to be partly white, but they are too much soiled to judge with certainty ; up- 

 per mandible black, the under yellowish-white ; legs dark yellow, claws 

 black. 



Length (skin) about 12 in.; wing 8J ; tail 6|-; tarsi IJ. 



Habitat. — Guatemala. Obtained from Dr. C. H. Van Patten. Type in my 

 collection. 



Remarks. — This specimen, which seems to be fully adult, makes a third spe- 

 cies of the genus Ilarpagus, the other two being H. bidentatvs, Lath., and H. 

 diodon, Temm. The characteristic toothing of the bill is strongly developed, 

 but it otherwise differs so entirely from the above two species in all their 

 stages of plumage, by the broad transverse markings of its under surface, that 

 no comparison with them is requisite. 



JVote on ZONOTRICHIA MELANOTIS. 



This species should be placed in the genus Hcemophila, and much resembles 

 in distribution of its markings, H. riificauda, Bp. That species 1 had not seen 

 at the time I described Z. melanotis. They differ in the tail of my species be- 

 ing liver-brown instead of rufous, and in having the tail feathers edged with 

 whitish. In place of the decided rufous coloring of the sides, abdomen and 

 under tail coverts of H ntjicauda, there is only a wash of that color in mela- 

 notis. The dark stripes on the crown and sides of the head are pure black ; 

 the corresponding ones in rnficauda are dark brown mixed with rufous. In 

 the last named species there is a broad band across the breast, of dark ash : 

 this part in my species has only an ashy suffusion. The smaller wing coverts 

 of H. rnficauda are of an immaculate bright rufous , those of U. melanotis are 

 less bright, with dark brown shaft stripes. The bill of H. rnficauda is larger, 

 and in its general plumage it is the most rufous of the two species. 



Mr. 0. Salvin (Ibis 1868, p. 299) says of my species: "Possibly the same as 

 Ilmmophila humeralis, Cab." It apparently differs in many marked character- 

 istics from the description given of that species. 




BIOLOGICAL AND MICEOSCOPIOAL DEPAETMENT 



ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES. 



On the evening of March 28th, 1868, a meeting of gentlemen 

 interested in the organization of a Microscopical Society was held 

 at the office of Dr. James Tyson, at which sixteen were present, 

 while written or verbal communications signifying sympathy with 

 the project were presented from at least as many more. 



Dr. R. S. Kenderdine was called upon to preside and Dr. Tyson 

 to act as Secretary. A letter from Prof Jos. Leidy was read, urging 

 the advantages of working under the Biological Department of the 

 Academy of Natural Sciences. Such, or a similar plan of organi- 

 zation met with approval, and a committee, consisting of Drs. H. C. 

 AVood, Jos. Leidy, Wm. Pepper, J. H. McQuillen and James 

 Tyson, was appointed to take into consideration the propriety and 

 feasibility of forming a Microscopical Department of the Academy 

 of Natural Sciences, and to report at a meeting to be held Saturday 

 evening, April 4th, at the same place. 



Ajyril 4th, 1868. 

 President, R. S. Kenderdine, M. D., in the Chair. 



Seventeen gentlemen present. 



The Committee appointed at the last meeting reported, "It hav- 

 ing been strongly urged by members of the Committee and in- 

 fluential members of the Academy of Natural Sciences, that we 

 should not organize a purely Microscopical Department, we con- 

 sider that the objects of the meeting will be most successfully at- 

 tained by forming a Department or Section to be known as The 

 Biological and Microscopical Department of the Academy of Nat- 

 ural Sciences of Philadelphia, which will combine the objects of the 

 existing Biological Department and a Microscopical Society, in a 

 manner to be determined in accordance with Chap. XIII of the By- 

 Laws of the Academy, On the Creation and Government of Depart- 

 ments." 



This report was adopted and the Committee continued to carry 

 out its report. 



29 




^ PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



MEETING OF BIOLOGICAL DEPARTMENT OP THE ACADEMY. 



April le^A, 1868. 

 Director, Jos. Leidy, M. D., in the Chair. 



Six members present. 



The Director stated the object of the meeting to be to take into 

 consideration the revival of the Biological Department of the Acad- 

 emy, and its union with a proposed Microscopical Department. 



After some discussion, it was voted that a committee of three, in- 

 cluding the Director, be appointed to confer with the Microscopical 

 Society and point out the advantages to accrue from the proposed 

 union, and afterwards to take such action in the Academy as shall 

 be required to bring about such union. Drs. Leidy, Mitchell and 

 J. A. Meigs were appointed. 



Adjourned to meet on 1st Monday in May. 



Ajyril 25th, 1868. Proposed Microscopical Society. 

 President, R. S. Kenderdine, M.D., in the Chair. 



Twenty-three gentlemen present. 



The Committee reported that on April 18th, 1868, they met a 

 Committee of the Biological Department of the Academy, consisting 

 of Drs. Jos. Leidy, Dr. S. W. Mitchell and J. A. Meigs, and as 

 the result of this conference, were empowered to offer the following 

 propositions to the meeting, if, in accordance with the resolutions 

 of the first meeting, it be deemed desirable to unite with the Biologi- 

 cal Department of the Academy. 



I. The name of the present Biological Department shall be 

 changed to Biological and Microscopical Department. 



II. All microscopic apparatus and preparations now owned by 

 the Biological Department will be freely available to the new De- 

 partment. 



III. The extensive microscopic library of the Academy will be 

 accessible to them, and the purchase of new books can be secured 

 from a fund provided for the purpose. 



IV. Meetings can be held in the Hall of the Academy at what- 

 ever time appears desirable to the members of the Department, 

 except the evenings of the stated meetings of the Academy, and the 

 order of business can be arranged as desired. 



V. A motion shall be urged upon the Academy that the amount 

 of entrance fee and the annual contribution for the first year, of 

 new members joining the Academy for the sake of becoming mem- 

 bers of this Department, shall be voted as an appropriation to the 

 Department. 



On motion of Dr. "Wm. Pepper, it was voted that if the advantages 

 above detailed are granted by the Academy, it is deemed desirable 

 that the gentlemen wishing to form a Microscopical Society unite 

 with the body known as the Biological Department of the Academy, 

 under the title of the Biological and Microscopical Department of 

 the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 6 



It was also voted that a committee of three be appointed to carry 

 out the resolution and to take proper steps to have those gentlemen 

 not members of the Academv made such. The Chair appointed 

 Prof F. G. Smith, Drs. H. C.'Wood and W. Pepper. 



Adjourned until called by the officers of the Biological Depart- 

 ment. 



Biological Department, May Ath, 1868. 

 Vice Director, S. W. Mitchell, M. D., in the Chair. 



Three members present. 



The following gentlemen, also present, members of the Academy 

 of Natural Sciences, on complying with the By-Laws of the Academy 

 on the subject of Departments, were also declared members : — Wm. 

 Pepper, M. D., H. M. Bellows, M. D., F. W. Lewis, M. D., Isaac 

 Norris, M. D., James Tyson, M. D., Harrison Allen, M. D., H. C. 

 Wood, M. D., R. S. Kenderdine, M. D., T. C. Stellwagen, M. D., 

 J. H. McQuillen, M. D., J. G. Hunt, M. D.. C. N. Peirce, D. D. S., 

 C. A. Kingsbury, D. D. S. 



Eleven gentlemen interested in the proposed Microscopical So- 

 ciety, but not members of the Academy, were also present by invita- 

 tion. 



Dr. J. H. McQuillen exhibited a number of sections of human 

 teeth which he had prepared, demonstrating the interglobular spaces 

 in dentine, and also made some extended remarks descriptive of 

 his investigations in this direction, which he proposes to publish in 

 the Proceedings. 



Biological Department, May l^th, 1868. 

 The Director, Jos. Leidy, M. D., occupied the Chair. 



Thirteen members present ; eleven, not members, present by in- 

 vitation. 



Dr. Tyson exhibited specimens of black crystalline forms, gener- 

 ally rhomboidal, obtained from fecal discharges, and which pre- 

 sented the characters of lucmin crystals, as described by Virchow in 

 " Cellular Pathology." 



Dr. S. W. Mitchell having recently studied the life of the rattle- 

 snake, remarked, with regard to the growth of their rattles, that they 

 are produced at all times, even when the reptile has been long 

 deprived of food, and that they are not produced one in each year 

 of the life of the reptile, as commonly thought. 



Biological Dej^artment, June 1st, 1868. 

 Director, Jos. Leidy, M. D., iu the Chair. 

 Sixteen members present, also nine gentlemen, proposed members. 

 The following were declared members of the Department : — 

 Jno. Neill, M. D., T. L. Buckingham, D. D. S., K. AV. Hargadine, 

 M. D., E. L. Hewitt, D. D. S., Aug. F. Miiller, M. D., Edw. 




4 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Rhoads, M. D., W. H. Trueman, D. D. S., James Truman, D. D. 

 S., Chas. Shaeffer, M. D, Henry C, Chapman, M. D., W. W. Keen, 

 M. D, W. Lehman Wells, M. D., T. H. Andrews, M. D, Geo. 

 Pepper, M. D., D. Murray Cheston, M. D., Horace Williams, M. D., 

 Herbert Norris, M. D., Chas. Bullock, W. L. McFadden, Joseph 

 Zentmaver, W. H. Walmsley, T. W. gtarr, Horace B. Hare, M. D., 

 Prof. Robt. E. Rogers, M. D., and F. F. Maury, M. D. 



The resignations of Messrs. McAllister, Atlee, Wilcocks and 

 Ziegler were read and accepted. 



Dr. J. H. McQuillen exhibited longitudinal and transverse sec- 

 tions, prepared by himself, illustrating the anatomy of the poison 

 fangs of the rattlesnake. The fangs were from the head of a rattle- 

 snake furnished to him by Dr. S. W. Mitchell. 



Biological Dejyai'tment, June 16fh, 1868. 

 Wm. Pepper, M. D., in the Chair, 



Twenty-five members present. 



Drs. J. L. LeConte, J. H. Packard and S. B. Howell were de- 

 clared members of the Department. 



The resignations of Mr. Constant Guillou and Drs. A. Hewson 

 and Henry Hartshorne were read and accepted. 



Dr. W. W. Keen exhibited some injected preparations mounted 

 in sections, by Prof. Thiersch of Leipzic. Some of these were mar- 

 vels of execution, more particularly as to the extent of the sections, 

 being those of an entire kidney of a cat and rabbit, and similarly 

 extensive tissues. They were mounted in balsam, and exhibited, for 

 the most part vascular arrangement only. 



At the election of officers this evening for the remainder of the 

 year 1868, the following were chosen: — 



Director, Wm. Pepper, M. D. 



Vice Director, J. Gibbons Hunt, M. D. 



Recorder, James Tyson, M. D. 



Corresponding Secretary, J. H. McQuillen, M. D, 



Conservator, Herbert Norris, M. D. 



Treasurer, C. N. Pierce, D. D. S. 



July 6th, 1868. 

 Director, Wm. Pepper, M. D., in the Cliair. 



Twenty-three members present. 



Dr. H. C.Wood exhibited a section through the root of the American 

 mistletoe, shoyv'mg the intimate conjunction of the woody tissue of the 

 parasite with that of its foster mother, as well as the distinctness of 

 the two, and remarked on the fact that the green leaved phanerogamic 

 parasite thus pierced into the region of the crude sap, while the 

 tawny, scale leaved, such as the beech drop, are only capable of nour- 

 ishing themselves with the elaborated sap, and that therefore they 

 merely pierced the bark of their victim, their roots ramifying through 

 the cambium layer. 



Dr. J. G. Hunt remarked : 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. O 



It is -svell knowu to botanists that in the pitcher of Nepenthes disHUatoria 

 there are numerous glands lining its internal surface, and extending from the 

 extreme bottom up nearly to the middle of the pitcher. This system of glands 

 has been described by Treviranus but never correctly figured that I am aware 

 of. But if we examine with a common lens, the frill, or thickened edge sur- 

 rounding the top of the pitcher, looking carefully along the inner and lower 

 margin, we may detect numerous' little apertures, leading into short canals, 

 and terminating in as many large cj'lindrical glands which lie around the top 

 of the pitcher like guns around a fortification. These glands lie imbedded in 

 a parenchyma, made up almost entirely of large spiral cells, and this would 

 seem to indicate considerable activit}' in their function, which, no doubt, is to 

 pour down a multitude of trickling rills into the cavity of the pitcher. I am 

 not aw'are that botanists have alluded to these glands before, and it is prob- 

 able analogous ones exist in the other species of this genus. 



Dr. Hunt also exhibited preparations illustrating the anatomy of 

 Drosera rofundifolia, and remarked that 



The glands terminating the filaments growing on the leaves are beautiful 

 structures when rendered sufficiently transparent for observation. A spiral 

 vessel traverses the centre of each filament and terminates at its free end in 

 several large, elongated spiral cells. Around, and entirely enclosing this clus- 

 ter of spiral cells, many columnar cells filled with granules are arranged, 

 their long diameters pointing outwards, and a delicate epidermis envelops all. 

 If the mature leaf be severed from the plant and placed in favorable condi- 

 tions, adventitious buds will be formed on it, and thus a crop of young Dro- 

 seras may be obtained. We have examined this plant in all its stages of 

 growth, under lenses, and without them, and failed to detect any evidence of 

 irritability, and while it doubtless does catch flies and other small objects by 

 means of the adhesive liquid on the glands, it would seem that the conclusion 

 drawn from this fact, namely, that the Drosera needs animal food thus for 

 its growth, is, perhajjs, premature. Has such fact ever been jiroved ? 



Jul// 20th, 1868. 

 Vice-Director, J. G. Hunt, M. D., in the Chair. 



Sixteen members present. 



donations. — A preparation of epithelial cancer of the larynx, 

 presented by Dr. J. J, Woodward. 



A photograph of acarus sacchari. 



An official communication was received from the Recording 

 Secretary of the Academy of Natural Sciences, containing an ab- 

 stract of the minute of a recent meeting of the Academy, at which 

 the following by-law was passed after the third reading. 



"Art. xxi, of Chap. XHI. The Department A shall be denomi- 

 nated the Biological and Microscopical Department of the Academy 

 of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia." Thus authorizing officially 

 the new title of the Depai'tment. 



BIOLOGICAL AND MICROSCOPICAL DEPARTMENT. 



Au!j. Sd, 1868. 

 Mr. Chas. Bullock in the Chair. 

 Eleven members present. 



Aug. nth, 1868. 

 Director, Wm. Pepper, M. D., in the Chair. 

 Fifteen members present. 




b PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Dr. J. Gibbons Hunt exhibited and described an improved Sec- 

 tion instrument. 



A brass tube, two inches long and three-fourths of an inch in diameter, is closed 

 at one end ; a circular brass plate two inches in diameter attached to the other 

 end, and ground properly fiat, forms the surface to guide the razor. Into this tube 

 fits another, which is worked up or down by a screw working in a thread cut in 

 the bottom of the outside tube. A slot cut through the upper end of the ovter 

 tube affords room for a lateral binding-screw, which is attached to and carried 

 by the inner tube. The binding-screw presses against a moveable tongue of 

 metal armed at the upper and inner side with minute points. On the opposite 

 side of the inner tube are also points designed to hold an object more securely. 

 The advantages of this improvement are obvious. It is cheap, and is peculiar 

 in really answering the purpose for which it is made. 



Cork is unfit for holding objects in a section instrument ; some firm vege- 

 table, such as a turnip or potato, for all very delicate preparations being far 

 better. 



Sept. 1th, 1868. 

 Director, Wm. Pepper, M. D., in the Chair. 

 Seventeen members present. 



Dr. Wm. Pepper read a paper, illustrated by microscopical prepa- 

 rations, " On the action of phosphorous in poisonous quantities upon 

 the animal economy." 



See American Journal of the Med. Sciences, April, 1869. 

 George Roberts M. D., and Ferdinand A. Hassler, M. D., were 

 chosen members of the Department. 



Sept lUt, 1868. 

 Director, W. Pepper, M. D., in the Chair. 



Twenty members present. 



A complete set of photographs of the 19 bands of Nobert's most 

 recent test plate, the last four showing spectral bands only, were 

 presented by the Surgeon General U. S. Army, through Dr. J. J. 

 Woodward. 



Dr. Leidy observed that having noticed in the recent edition of Gray's 

 Manual of Botany, the description of a species of Wolffia, for the first time 

 published as occurring in the United States, he was led to seek for it in the 

 vicinity of Philadelphia, under the impression that he had long been familiar 

 with a plant of the kind, but without knowing its true character. He was 

 successful in his search, having found it growing abundantly in a ditch skirt- 

 ing the road near the Delaware River, below the built up portion of the city. 

 It is accompanied by a profusion of Lemna polyrrhiza and L. minor. 



Dr. Leidy exhibited specimens of the plant in a glass vial and also beneath 

 the microscope. This, the smallest and simplest of all the true flowering 

 plants, appears to be the Wolffia Columbiana of Karsten, to which the United 

 States plant of other localities has been referred in Gray's Manual. The de- 

 scription in the latter is very brief, and the original is not accessible in our 

 library. The plant is larger than indicated in Gray, and may be looked upon 

 as a variety. It was described as follows : 



The frond is oval or nearly globular, uniformly bright pea-green, smooth or 

 slightly muricate, shining. Plant floating at the surface of the water, about 

 two-thirds submerged with the long diameter horizontal. No distinctive 

 appearance between the upper and lower surfaces. In a state of multiplica- 

 tion usually observed with the new frond projecting from within one end of 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 7 



the parent, of all sizes neaily, to that of the latter itself. When the new frond 

 is separated, the parent is observed to appear truncate at the pole of separa- 

 tion with a cup-like concavity, surrounded by a thin hyaline margin, which is 

 sometimes slightly everted. After the establishment of the cup, a succession 

 of new fronds appear to be produced from it, and may be observed in diftcrent 

 fronds in all stages of growth. The new fronds are slightly pedicellate, and 

 the offspring of these appear to originate close to the pedicel. Size of the 

 full grown frond from ;j to i a line in depth and breadth, with the length 

 slight!}' greater. 



Outer epidermis composed of hexagonal cells in outline, with an abundance 

 of chlorophyl grains adherent to the interior surface. Cells of the margin of 

 the cup for two or three rows twice the breadth but not more than half the 

 depth of the others. Stomata remarkably few ; not more than from two to 

 four observed in a frond. Interior of the frond occupied with large spheroidal 

 cells, three lines the diameter of those of the epidermis. Air occupies many 

 of the interior cellular interspaces. Towards the point of attachment of the 

 new frond, the cells of the parent diminish in size and these contain some 

 brownish coloring matter. 



The tlowers and fruit of W. Columbiana, as observed in Gray's Manual, 

 have not been seen in the United States, but the fruiting plant, it is also stated, 

 has been recently discovered by Karston, in Venezuela. No flowers or fruit 

 were detected iu the Philadelphia plant. 



Dr. J. H. McQuillen performed some experiments on animals 

 with nitrous oxide before the Department, prior to which 



He remarked that every one present is no doubt aware that the recent in- 

 troduction of nitrous oxide as an anaesthetic in England, has been much 

 opposed by a number of prominent medical men there, particularly Drs. B. W. 

 Richardson and A. E. Sansom, both of whom have devoted years to the care- 

 ful study of anesthetics, and, on account of their observations, experiments 

 and contributions to the literature of aua;sthetics, have come to be regarded 

 " as of authority " in such matters ; and their combined opposition appears to 

 have had considerable eflect upon the medical profession, judging from the 

 comments in the medical journals, and the reports of proceedings of medical 

 societies opposing its use ; but the dental profession of England, aware of the 

 remarkable exemptiom from fatality which has attended the use of nitrous 

 oxide in America — frequently in tiie hands of most ignorant persons — have 

 determined to give the agent a fair trial. The result is not an uncertain one, and 

 Ijefore another year passes by nitrous oxide, in the hands of the progressive 

 members of the dental profession in Great Britain, will almost entirelj' super- 

 cede, as in this country, the use of ether and chloroform in the extraction of 

 teeth, and there is no reason why it should not be employed in the minor and 

 capital operations of general surgery. 



Dr. Richardson, in addition to his opposition to the use of nitrous oxide as 

 an agent that " had caused death in the human subject " (making this asser- 

 tion notwithstanding the fact that, in 100,000 cases or more in which it has 

 been employed in America, no fatal case can justly be attributed to it as the 

 direct cause), said at a meeting of the Medical Society of London, that '' on 

 animals it was so fatal that, with the utmost delicacy in its use, it was a critical 

 task thoroughl)/ to narcotize an animal with the gas without actually destroying life. 

 In some cases, also, animals died after recovering from the insensibility." 



In accounting for this fatalitj' in man and animals, nitrous oxide has been 

 denied the possession of aniesthetic properties, and the results obtained attri- 

 buted to asphyxia, due to " suspension of oxygenation," as in cases of death 

 from the inhalation of the fumes of charcoal or carbonic acid gas, rather than 

 impressions made upon the brain directly by the agent. It is somewhat singu- 

 lar to have such an explanation offered in connection with a substance which 

 sujiplies an excess of oxygen to the blood. It is not my intention, however, 

 this evening, to enter into the consideration of how nitrous oxide acts npon 




8 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



the system ; but with a view of testing the accuracy of the statement quoted 

 which, as you will observe, was made in the most decided and emphatic man- 

 ner, without the slightest limitation or reservation to repeat a series of ex- 

 periments on some animals in your presence to whom I administered nitrous 

 oxide before the members of the Odontographic Society, three weeks since. 

 The gas was then given as follows : 



1st experiment — A white rabbit, in good condition, was placed upon the 

 table, held by assistants, and Barker's flexible india-rubber hood adjusted over 

 the face of the animal, so that it could inhale the gas directly from the gum- 

 bag. A valve in the inhaler admitted of the ingress of nitrous oxide gas to 

 the lungs, and of the egress of the carbonic acid from them. After some 

 little resistance, the rabbit became sensibly affected by the gas, in a minute 

 and a quarter fell over on its side perfectly motionless, so completely narco- 

 tized that, on being held up by the ears, feet, or tail, it made no resistance, 

 and would have been taken for dead but for slight respiration and the evident 

 movements of the heart on applying the hand to the chest. In two minutes 

 and ten seconds it revived, and sprang from the table to the floor, apparently 

 unaffected by the experience it had just passed through. 



2d experiment. — Another white rabbit was treated in the same manner as 

 the first, with the exception that the gas was applied for a longer period, (Im. 

 20 sec), and the animal was much slower in recovering from the effects. 

 Several of the gentlemen, indeed, thought that life had become extinct, but 

 five minutes after the induction of narcosis, it was running about on the floor 

 with its companion. 



3d experiment. — A kitten, about four months old — which had been suffering 

 from the distemper, refusing solid food during the preceding five weeks, and 

 on. drinking milk almost invariably vomited it — was then treated as the other 

 animals had been. The resistance to the inhalation of the gas was much 

 greater on her part, and the urinary organs were so much affected that quite 

 a profuse discharge of urine occurred. In I ra. 30 sec. the animal was com- 

 pletely narcotized, and remained in an inanimate condition for 1 ni. 10 sec, 

 when it gradually revived, and appeared none the worse for the free supply of 

 the gas. 



4th experiment. — The gas was then introduced into a bell-glass receiver over 

 a water bath, aud a frog placed under the glass ; but apparently owing to the 

 rapidity with which water absorbs nitrous oxide, the animal remained there 

 for more than half an hour unaffected by it. 



5th experiment. — Another frog was placed in a wet bladder, the opening of 

 which was tied tightly around the nozzle of the inhaler, and the gas passed 

 into the bladder; in 3 m. 33 sec. the frog was lying on his back perfectly 

 motionless, the translucence of the bladder affording a view of his position 

 and condition. On untying the string and taking the animal out of the blad- 

 der, the access of fresh air revived it at once, and it jumped from the table 

 with its usual vigor. 



These experiment occupied about one hour, and some idea may be gained 

 of the freeriom with which the agent was administered to the animals by the 

 fact that about forty gallons of gas were used up. At the close of the even- 

 ing, when the meeting adjourned, the animals were perfectly comfortable.* 



Mr. Chas. Bullock remarked that the impression so commonly- 

 held as to the effect of the continued inhalation of oxygen has been 

 recently shown to be erroneous, and suggested the possibility that 

 the varying effects might be due to allotropic states, in one of which, 



* All of these animals have been under my daily supervision during the jsast three 

 months, since the performance of the experiment, and none of them have n^anitested any 

 discomfort, but, on the contrary, are in a perfectly healthy condition, the kitten in par- 

 ticular having improved so much under the remedy that, in a day or so after inhaling the 

 gas, it partook freely of its food, and has been quite active and playful ever since. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



9 



the absorption of a larger quantity of oxygen being at times per-^ 

 mitted, death resulted ; and at other times, in an opposite state of 

 the gas in which none was absorbed, no harm resulted. 



Dr. H. C. Wood stated that he had known the administration of 

 nitrous oxide gas to a patient suffering with uterine colic to fail to 

 produce anaesthesia. 



Richard K. Betts was elected a member of the Department. 



Oct. 5 th, 1868. 

 Director, Wm. Pepper, M. D., in the Chair. 



Twenty-seven members present. 



Prop. Leidy directed attention to a specimen of a sponge which had been 

 for nianyj-ears in the Museum of the Academy, and had been presented by the 

 late Dr.R. E. Griffith, who obtained it in the' Ishmd of Santa Cruz, W. I. It 

 is especially interesting from its relationship with that most beautiful of all 

 known sponges, the Euplectella uspergillum^ and apparently also to that enig- 

 matic body the Hyalouema Sieboldii of Japan. Specimens of both these were 

 also exhibited. A beautiful one of the former, from the Philippines, pre- 

 sented to the Academy by Joseph Henry Craven. Several specimens of the 

 Hyalonema, presented by Drs. Ruschenberger and Sinclair, consist of a twisted 

 fasciculus or rope of long, coarse, translucent siliceous threads, partially invested 

 with a brown verrucose membrane or bark. When the first specimen was 

 presented to the Academy in 18G0, (Pr. A. N. S. 1860, 85,) Prof. Leidy, as 

 Curator, reported it as a part of a sponge with a parasitic polyp upon it. One 

 of the specimens may have some significance as to the relation of the rope ot 

 spicules and its polyp covering. It has attached two shark eggs and part of 

 the tendril-like cords of another. The tendrils clasp the i-ope and are also 

 partially invested with the polyp crust. In the complete condition, the 

 Hyalonevia fasciculus appears always to be associated at one end with a 

 sponge-mass. Originally described by Dr. R. E. Gray, the fasciculus was 

 viewed as the axis of a coral of which the verrucose bark formed part, the 

 warts constituting the polyps ; and he supposed the fasciculus to grow as a 

 parasite from the sponge, frequently seen in specimens attached to one of its 

 extremities. This still appears to be the view of Dr. Gray, as announced in 

 recent volumes of the Proceedings of the Zoological Society, etc. 



Dr. Bowerbank views the siliceous rope, with its warty investment and the 

 sponge mass at one end, altogether as the elements of a sponge. The warts 

 or polyps of Dr. Gray he regards as the oscules of the sponge. 



Schultze, in an elaborate memoir, (Die Hyalonemen) accompanied by beau- 

 tiful plates representing the complete Ibjalonema, as the result of his investi- 

 gations, determines the sponge-mass and projecting siliceous rope to be together 

 the elements of the sponge, and the warty investment of the rope to belong to 

 a polyp to which he gives the name of PohjtJioa fatua. In the crusts or indi- 

 vidual polyps he detected the arms filled with nettling cells. 



Brandt views the siliceous rope and its investment as a polyp, and the sponge 

 mass at one extremity as a parasite invading, ultimately to destroy the polyp. 



Lastly, among the discordant views, Ehrenburg looks upon the siliceous 

 rope as an "artificial product of Japanese industry." 



Prof. L. continued, I shall not discuss this extraordinary difference of 

 opinions among experts, but must confess that I view most favorably the theory 

 that the sponge-mass and the siliceous rope together constitute the sponge 

 Hiialoncmd, while the warty crust of the rope constitutes a parasitic compound 

 polyp, the Polythoa fatua of Schultze. 



The sponge from Santa Cruz, in its body and projecting fasciculi of siliceous 

 threads, reminds one of the Hyalonema sponge with its siliceous rope, but the 

 structure of the threads of the former more nearly resembles those of the 




10 PEOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



anchor threads of Euplectella. It is evidently a different sponge from either 

 of those just named, and may be called Pheronema. 



The body of the sponge is oblong ovoidal, with the narrower end upward, 

 and with one side more prominent than the other. The lower extremity is 

 rather cj'lindroid and rounded truncate. The upper extremity is conical, with 

 a truncate apex presenting a large circular orifice. This is about 4 lines in 

 diameter and is the exit of a canal which descends in the axis of the sponge 

 for almost half its depth, and then appears to divide into several branches. 

 The sides of the sponge form thick dense walls to the cylindrical canal, which 

 is of uniform diameter before its division. 



In its present condition the sponge is of a light brown hue. Its surface ex- 

 liibits an intricate interlacement of stellate, siliceous spicule, including a tissue 

 of finer spiculie of the same character, the whole associated by the dried re- 

 mains of the softer sponge tissues. More or less fine sand, especially at the 

 lower end of the sponge appears to be introduced as an element of structure. 



From the lower end of the sponge there projects a number of distinct or 

 separate tufts of siliceous spiculae, looking like tufts of blonde human hair. 

 In the specimen there are fifteen tufts projecting around two-thirds of the ex- 

 tremity of the sponge, but the remaining third of the extremity of the latter 

 exhibits about ten orifices, from which as many additional tufts appear to 

 have been extracted. 



Length of the body of the sponge 4|- inches ; diameter at middle 22 lines, 

 at lower end 15 and 17 lines, at upper end 8 lines. Length of tufts of spiculae 

 2 inches. The coarser stellate spicules of the surface of the sponge in gene- 

 ral have five rays, of which four are irregularly cruciform, while the fifth pro- 

 jects at a right angle to the others towards the interior of the sponge. The 

 rays of the contiguous crosses form together a lattice work on the surface of 

 the sponge, and the intervals are covered by the rays of the finer spicula; which 

 also in general have a five-rayed stellate character. The finer tissue in the in- 

 terior of the sponge, seen through the lattice work of the surface, contains a 

 multitude of spicules which differ from the others only in their minute forms. 

 Some of the largest stellate spicules on the surface of the sponge have a 

 stretch of three-fourths of an inch. 



The spicules of the tufts projecting from the sponge are two or three inches 

 in length and vary in diameter. They become attenuated towards both ex- 

 tremities, but especially that inserted into the sponge-mass. Starting from 

 the latter, they are at first smooth, then finely tuberculate ; the tubercles 

 gradually become converted into well marked recurved prickles or hooks, and 

 finally the spicules end in a pair of longer hooks, recalling to mind the arms 

 of an anchor. The spicules bear a near resemblance to those at the lower 

 extremity of Euplectella, but have only two instead of four hooks at the end. 

 In the specimen but few of the spicules present the complete character as de- 

 scribed, most of them apparently having been broken. 



The object of the tufts of spicules with their recurved prickles, and anchor- 

 like free extremities, in Pheronema w'ould apper to be to maintain the position 

 or preserve the anchorage of the sponge in its ocean home, and perhaps in the 

 living animal they are incessantly produced as occasion may require, just as a 

 Mytilus or a Pinna renews and attaches its threads of byssus to secure its 

 position. 



The siliceous spicules of Pheronema are composed, as in sponges generally, 

 of concentric layers, and exhibited a delicate tubular axis. A spicula from 

 one of the tufts measured as follows: — 



Spread of the anchor one-tenth of a line ; shank of the anchor one- thirtieth 

 of a line ; prickled portion of shaft one-fortieth of a line ; shaft where thick- 

 est and without prickles one-eighteenth of a line, thinning out to the inserted 

 end where it was not more than l-30()th of a line. 



The species I propose to dedicate to my wife under the name of Pheronema 

 Annie. 



Dr. Leidy fur remarked, that if any of the members desired to examine 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



11 



Euglena viridis, he had observed it in great profusion on Friday last in a ditch 

 skirting the Delaware road below the coal oil depot, south of the built portion 

 of the city. The water looked in the spot as if Schweinfurt green had been 

 strewed on the surface. He also exhibited drawings of a species which 

 appeared to be an undescribed one, and which he had several times noticed 

 late in the spring and early summer some years ago. The drawings were 

 made from specimens obtained in a pond near Gloucester, N J., in May, 1858. 

 The water of the pond was thickly coated with a ferruginous red color due to 

 the Euglena. The infusorium is not of a blood-red hue, as is stated to be the 

 case in Euglena sanguinea, but is of a uniform ferruginous red. Upon keeping 

 the animalcule a few days in a glass vessel exposed to the northern light, the 

 exterior of the contents assumed a bright green hue, and the red eye point, 

 previously invisible, came into view, while the central mass of contents re- 

 mained of the original color. The animalcules remained in this condition 

 subseciuently until they died. In motion the animalcule assumed the various 

 forms observed in E. viridis and other species. It would elongate to about 

 1-I5th of a line by the l-75th of a line wide. In the resting condition assuming 

 a globular form, it measured l-37th of a line in diameter. 



The head is obtuse ; the mouth oblique ; the tail acute, and the flagellum is 

 about the length of the body. Generally two nucleus-like vesicles occupied 

 the interior, besides a clearer space around the position of the eye-point. 



Dr. R. W. Hargadine exhibited some beautiful crystals of hremato- 

 crystallin, prepared by himself after the method of Bojanowski, who 

 takes a quautity of blood drawn from a vein, or better from the 

 blood vessel of an animal after death, and places it from two to four 

 days in a cool place, until the blood corpuscles begin to form a 

 thick, dark red, or black mass. A drop of this fluid is placed on a 

 slide, covered, and placed in a dark place for several hours, when 

 the crystals begin to form. 



Dr. Chas. H. Thomas was elected a member of the Department. 



Oct Idth, 1868. 

 Director, Wm. Pepper, M. D., in the Chair. 



Twenty-two members present. 



Dr. H. C. Wood, Jr., called the attention of the Department to the manner 

 in which one of the plant inhabitants of the ditches below the city produces its 

 zoospores. The plant in question is filamentous, and grows in great numbers 

 attached to twigs, bits of dead grass, splinters of wood, &c., in stagnant or 

 partial stagnant water. 



At its maximum size it is very apparent to the unaided eye, and is of a 

 dark green or even blackish color. Such large filaments are perfectly opaque 

 and are composed of numerous cells. The base of the filament is narrowed, 

 and at irregular intervals in its length there are very marked contractions. 

 The younger filaments are uniform and composed of a single series of cells. 

 The zoospore is of the ordinary conical form, with the usual transparent space at 

 the smaller end, from which arise three long cilia. The living zoospore soon be- 

 comes attached by its pointed end to some support, its cilia withering away, 

 and commences to elongate at the expense of its transverse diameter. Atj^the 

 same time it acquires a cellulose coat. After a while the cell thus formed divides 

 transversely into two. Growth continuing, each of these cells after attaining'* 

 certain size, again divides transversely, and so the process goes on, until finally a 

 long filament is produced, which is composed of a single series of cells placed 

 end to end. When this filament has reached a certain stage of development, one 

 of two things occurs, either the cells begin to divide in the direction of their 

 length, or the production oi Zoospores takes place. In the first instance each cell 




12 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



divides into two, four, &c., cells, so that in the filament a number of cells lie side 

 by side, and from this compound filament the large matured trichoma is formed 

 by a continuation of growth and division. The zoospores are formed only in the 

 younger fronds, these old compound trichomata appearing to be incapable of 

 developing them. The endochrome in a cell about to produce zoospores 

 divides into several more or less irregularly globular or pyriform masses. This 

 change takes place almost simultaneously in a number of consecutive cells. The 

 walls of the cells now undergo some alteration, whereby they become soluble 

 in water. And as the division of the endochrome occurs first in the most 

 distant cells of the filaments, so does also this change in the cellulose coats. 

 Solution of the walls now takes place, the partitions between the cells disap- 

 pearing, and the outer walls opening out, separating from one another. At the 

 same time the zoospores begin to move uneasily, rolling on themselves, pushing 

 forward, &c., and soon make their exit in a long stream which issues from the 

 end of the filament. 



This plant appears to be the same as tliat described by Kiitzing under the 

 name Schizomeris Leibleinei. No European observer has, however, as yet 

 noticed the manner in which the latter produces its zoospores, and therefore it 

 is impossible to be certain in the identification. US. Leibleinei should be Ibund 

 to differ essentially in the mode of giving birth to zoospores from the Ameri- 

 can species, the latter will form the type of a new genus. 



For the present it seems better, however, to consider the two identical. 



Jiio. Tomes, F. R. S., London, was chosen a corresponding 

 member of the Department. 



Nov. 2d, 1868. 

 Mr. Chas. Bullock in the Chair. 

 Twenty-six members present. 



Mr. T. W. Starr presented to the Department twelve slides, illus- 

 trating the anatomy of miscellaneous insects, among which is the 

 seventeen-year locust. 



Nov. l^ith, 1868. 

 Director, Wm. Pepper, M. D., in the Chair. 



Twenty-six members present. 



Mr. W. H. Walmsley donated twelve slides illustrating vegetable 

 structure. 



Dr. F. W. Lewis donated slides of miscellaneous objects. 



Dr. Wood exhibited to the Department fruiting specimens of a fresh-water 

 Alga, which he had found near Chelten Hills, Montgomery County, growing in 

 a rapidly flowing creek, on stones, which it covered more or less completely 

 with a dark purplish, mucous coating. He stated that it might be referred, 

 with some doubt, to the European plant, Chaniransia chah/bea, from which it 

 differs, however, in its habit of growth, as well as in the filaments being much 

 thicker and nearly twice as long. He gave the measurements of the oval 

 spores as about 37^50 ii the transverse, by ^^'qq in the long diameter. The 

 diameter of the filaments is about the ^sV)^ ^^ '^'^ inch. 



The doctor also exhibited specimens of a new species of Palmella, collected 

 on the banks of the Schuylkill above Manayunk, which grew on the faces of 

 rocks, kept constantly wet by dripping spring water. He proposed for the 

 plant the name of Palmella Jesseni, after Prof. Jessen, of Prussia, and gave the 

 following specific description of P. Jesseni, n. sp. 



P. thallo expanse, initio dilute aut late viride, molle, pellucidulo, a?tate 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 13 



provecta firmo, tuberculoso, saturate olivaceo viride ; cellulis globosis vel ellip- 

 ticis, in thalli astate inimaturo pleruraque singulis aut geminis et saepe sparsis, 

 in thallo maturo s^pe in familias counexis, plenimque confertis ; thalli maturi 

 tegumentis plerumque distinctis, thalli immaturi plerumque diffluentibus. 



Diam. cell. glob. max. 3-500 



Cell, oblong, long. max. -^^q^ 



Dr. Samuel Lewis was chosen a member of the Department. 



Dec. 7th, 1868. 

 Vice Director, J. G. Hunt, M. D., in the Chair. 



Twenty-five members present. 



Dr. F. W. Lewis presented to the Department a microscope, with 

 box, bull's eye condensed, two eye pieces and three objectives, in- 

 cluding 1 in., ^, and y'^, for which the thanks of the Department 

 were formally rendered. 



S. Weir Mitchell made the following remarks upon the general 

 resemblance in the effects caused by the venom of the various genera 

 of poisonous serpents. 



Several years ago, I reached the conclusion that the bite of the European 

 viper and that of our own rattlesnake, produced identical symptoms. Since 

 then I have been able, from experiments, to extend this conclusion to the 

 copperhead. A very close study of Russel's experiments upon the East Indian 

 snakes, particularly the cobra, and a like analysis of the results obtained 

 bj- Guyou in Africa, and Rufz in Martinique, make it probable that all the serpents 

 studied by these observers occasion symptoms which are so much alike as to 

 make it impossible from these alone to state which snake inflicted the wound. 

 The difference is one of degree and never one of kind. 



Several months ago I received from Dr. Halford, of Victoria, Australia, a 

 paper on venom poisoning. In replying, I enclosed a dried specimen of rattle- 

 snake poison, with which he made comparative experiments. These appear 

 to confirm the resemblance between the cobra and our own serpents At 

 the same time Dr. H. states that the tiger-snake differs from the cobra 

 in that its venom occasions but trifling or no local symptoms. He also 

 adds that after death from this serpent's bite, the body does not putrifj- quickly, 

 but is rather preserved thereby from decomposition. This seems to me so re- 

 markable — so exceptional indeed — as to make it very desirable to have it set 

 beyond doubt by further experiments. Apart from this single case, the 

 identity of all known snake poisons seems to be well established. 



Dr. J. G. Hunt exhibited an entire pitcher of the Nepenthes Dis- 

 tillatoria, prepared to show the situation of the previously unde- 

 scribed glands, to which he some months ago called the attention of 

 the Department. 



Dr. L. S. Bolles exhibited a new clinical microscope, constructed 

 by Mr. Tolles, of the Boston Optical Works, on a plan proposed by 

 Dr. Cutter of Mass. The microscope possessed a one-fifth objective, 

 and resembled somewhat the tubular part of Dr. Beale's clinical 

 microscope. It was, however, provided with a severe movement for 

 the adjustment, which secured a smooth and sufticieiitly rapid ap- 

 jiroximation of the object glass towards the object, without the dis- 

 advantages so evident in the sliding movement of a tube within a 

 tube. It was unprovided, however, with any special means of illu- 




14 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



miuation, being intended to be used with diffused daylight, or di- 

 rected towards a source of artificial illumination. 



At the annual election for officers held this evening, the following 

 were chosen : — 



Director, S. W. Mitchell, M. D. 



Vice Director, Wm. Pepper, M. D. 



Recorder, James Tyson, M. D, 



Corresponding Secretary, J. H. McQuillen, M. D. 



Conservator, Herbert Norris, M. D. 



Treasurer, C. N. Pierce, D. D. S. 



Dec. 21st, 1868. 

 Director, S. W. Mitchell, M. D., iu the Chair. 



Twenty members present. 



Dr. J. H. McQuillen exhibited, in further illustration of his pre- 

 vious communication, slides of blood corpuscles of men and lower 

 animals to which chloroform and nitrous oxide had been adminis- 

 tered, to show that there was no 'morphological chauge in these 

 bodies after administration of anaesthetics, as contended for by B. 

 W. Richardson, Sanson and others. The doctor also exhibited 

 slides of blood corpuscles with which chloroform and ether had 

 been brought in actual contact, producing under these circumstances 

 actual disintegration. Dr. McQ,. believes that the anaesthetics act 

 primarily upon the nervous centres, as early contended for by Flou- 

 rens and" the French physiologists generally. 



Mr. W, H. Walmsley called the attention of the Department to the very 

 great merits of Glycerine jelly as a medium for preservation of every descrip- 

 tion of objects, animal or vegetable, and exhibited specimens of both. I was 

 led to experiment willi it about one year ago, owing to the unsatisfactory 

 results obtained from the use of balsam in many classes of objects, its high 

 refracting power rendering many delicate tissues invisible, which are seen 

 perfectly in the jelly. At first I was not very successful, having followed the 

 formula; of Davies and other English authorities in making it ; the intense 

 heat of our early summer liquified it, and spoiled many specimens. After 

 many experiments, I arrived at a satisfactory result, the fluid readily jellying 

 in an hour or two during the hottest days of August. 



The advantages of this medium I deem to be various and obvious, and that 

 it combines within itself more than are possessed by any other with which we 

 are as yet acquainted. Its preservative qualities I believe to be unsurpassed, 

 for nearly every description of tissues or structure, animal or vegetable ; it 

 preserves the colors of the latter in absolute perfection, it is very readily pre- 

 pared and used, it attaches the covering glass to the side with sufficient tena- 

 city for all practical purposes, whilst the finishing ring of varnish will render 

 it quite secure. It is equally available for objects requiring to be mounted in 

 deep cells, and there is no danger of leakage, as is the case with all fluids ; it 

 can be readily removed from slide and cover with hot water, if necessary. 

 The refractive powers of the glycerine are sufficient to render all inert struc- 

 tures transparent, whilst even the delicate lines upon the scales of a mosquito's 

 wing, are as distinctly visible as though mounted dry. 



Finally, I desire, in bringing the subject before the Department, and mention- 

 ing my experience with its use, to interest other members in the matter, to in- 

 duce them to try it, and to bring together from time to time the results we 

 may severally arrive at. For I conceive it to be almost as important to arrive 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 15 



at a means of preserving permanently objects suitably prepared for scientific 

 observations, as to be able to prepare them for such observation without 

 reference to their preservation. Since we can only hope to arrive at accurate 

 conclusions by repeated study, not by one, but many observers, this can only 

 be done by having the object suitably prepared and permanently preserved. 



The formula for making glycerine jelly is as follows : 



Take one package of Cox's gelatine, wash repeatedly iu cold water, then 

 place in a vessel and add sufficiently cold water to cover it. Allow it to soak 

 an hour or two, pour oif superfluous water, add one pint of boiling water, place 

 vessel on fire and boil for ten or fifteen minutes. Remove from fire, and when 

 cool, but still fluid, add the white of an egg, well beaten, replace ou the fire 

 and boil until the albumen of the egg coagulates. Strain while hot through 

 flannel, and add an equal portion by measurement of Bower's pure glycerine, 

 and fifty drops of carbolic acid in solution ; boil again for ten or fifteen 

 minutes, and again strain through flannel, place in waier bath, and evaporate 

 to about one-half, then filter into two oz. broad-mouthed vials. (Cotton is the 

 best filtering medium.) 



To use the jelly in mounting objects : — Place the stock bottle in a small jar 

 of boiling water; when it becomes fluid, asufiicient quantity must be removed 

 to the slide (previously warmed), with a glass rod; the object, (previously 

 soaked for some hours in equal parts of glycerine and distilled water, with a 

 few drops of alcohol,) is to be placed in the drop of fluid jelly, a cover applied 

 and slight weight placed upon it to exclude superfluous jelly. When cold, 

 clean off the slide with a knife and wash in cold water ; finish with a ring of 

 gold size or shellac varnish. 



Note. — Dr. Carpenter cautions against use of Glycerin with objects of a 

 calcareous nature, as it is a solvent of carbonate of lime. 



Mr. Chas. Bullock remarked that it is important to give the 

 gelatine frequent washings previous to use, to remove traces of sul- 

 phuric acid, which invariably remain from the process employed in 

 its preparation. 



INlitchell W. McAllister, S. Fisher Corlies and Dr. J. G, Richard- 

 son, were this evening chosen members of the Department. 



Prof. 0. W. Holmes, of Boston, was chosen a corresponding 

 member. 




IKDEX. 



Acarus sacchari, photograph donated. 



Biological and Microscopical Department of Academy of Natural Sciences ; 



history of organization 1 



Blood Corpuscles of animals ; effects of anaesthetics on 14 



Chantrausia chalybea ,. 12 



Olinical Microscope, new form of, by Tolles 13 



Drosera rotundifolia 5 



Donations to Cabinet.... 5, 6, 12, 13 



Epithelial cancer, slide of, donated 5 



Euglena viridis 10 



Glycerine jelly for mounting objects, and directions to use 14 



Haemin crystals from fecal matters 3 



HaBmato-crystallin, crystals of, to obtain , 11 



Interglobular spaces in dentine 3 



Injected preparations, by Theirsch 4 



Mistletoe, section through root of. 4 



Nepenthes distillatoria, new glands in 5 



Nitrous oxide, experiments with inhalation of, and conclusions therefrom V, 14 



Nobert's most recent test plate, completed set of photographs of donated 6 



Oxygen, effects of inhalation of 8 



Palmella Jesseni .: 12 



Pheronema Anna? 9 



Phosphorus poisoning, structural effects of 6 



Rattles of rattlesnake, growth of 3 



Rattlesnakes, sections of fangs of. 4 



Section Cutter, improved form of 6 



Schizomeris Leibleinei ; manner in which it produces its zoospores 11 



Yenom of serpents, general resemblance in effects of 13 



Wolfia Columbiana 6 




X, 



2^ e. 





PUBLICATIONS 



OF 



THE ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES 



OF PHILADELPHIA. 



Fire volumes of the New Series of the Journal and Part II. of Vol. 6 (Quarto) 

 have been issued, — 1847 to 1867. The price per volume of four parts is $10.00, 

 or $3.00 per part to members ; and to the public, $12.50 per volume, or $3.75 

 per part. 



The First Series of the Journal, 1817 to 1842, in eight volumes, octavo, may 

 be obtained at $24.00, or for separate volumes $3.25 per volume. 



The First Series of the Proceedings of the Society, published in octavo, 

 1841 to 1856, of which eight volumes were completed Dec. 31, 1856, may be 

 ■obtained at $24.00, to members ; and to the public, $30.00. 



The Second Series of the Proceedings, commencing Jan. 1, 1857, (of which 

 eleven volumes are now completed. Dec. 31, 1867,) may be obtained at $33.00, 

 to members, or $3.00 per volume separately ; and to the public, $3.75 per 

 volume. These are now published monthly at $3.00 per annum, payable in 

 advance, to members; and to the public, $3.75. 



The Society has established a Publication Fund; any person who may con- 

 tribute the sum of $75, will receive, during life, the Journal, quarto, and the 

 Proceedings, octavo ; or separately, the Journal $50, and the Proceedings $25. 



BOOKS FOR SALE. 



The Academy have a few copies of the following rare works, for sale at the 

 prices afiSxed. 



Michaux' North American Sylva, 2 vols, octavo, Philadelphia, 1841, with 156 

 uncolored plates, $10.00. 



Monograph of the Unionidfe of North America, by T. A. Conrad. Complete 

 -with 60 colored plates, octavo, 1840, $8.50. 



Fossils of the Tertiary Formation of the United States, by T. A. Conrad. 

 Complete, with 49 plates, oCtavo, 1838, $5.00. 



Description of Shells of North America, with 68 colored plates, by Thos. Say, 

 1830—34, $10.50. 



Notice to Booksellers.— All the Publications of the Society will be sup- 

 plied to Booksellers at a discoant of 20 per cent, on the prices charged to the 



public. 



Application to be made to Wm. S. Vaux, Chairman of the Publication Com- 

 mittee, 1700 Arch Street, or to the Librarian, at the Hall of the Academy, cor- 

 ner of Broad and Sansom Sts. 



( London, TRm'S'ER & CO., 

 I No. fiO Paternoster Row- 



Agents, \ 



1 New York, WM. WOOD & CO., 

 (_ No. 61 Walker Tit. 



Januari/, 1868. 




CONTENTS. 



Observations on some specimens of Vertebrata. By E. D. Cope, 2 



A Monograph of the Alcidte. By Elliott Coues, A. M., M. D... 2 

 List of Birds collected in Southern Arizona by Dr. E. Palmer ; 



with remarks by Elliott Coues, U. S. A 81 



Committees elected for 1868 85 



Descrij)tions of some new species of diurnal Lepidoptera. Series 



III. By Tryon Keakirt 86 




PROCEEDINGS 



OF THE 



ACADIMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES 



OF 



PHILADELPHIA 



No. Q.— March, April and May, 1868. 



PHILADELPHIA: 



ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES, 



Corner of Broad and Sansom Streets, 



1868. 





PUBLICATIONS 



OP 



THE ACADEMY OP NATURAL SCIENCES 



OF PHILADELPHIA. 



Five volumes of the New Series of the Journal and Part II. of Vol. 6 (Quarto) 

 have been issued,— 1847 to 1867. The price per volume of four parts is $10.00, 

 or $3.00 per part to members ; and to the public, $12.50 per volume, or $3.75 

 per part. 



The First Series of the Journal, 1817 to 1842, in eight volumes, octavo, may 

 be obtained at $24.00, or for separate volumes $3.25 per volume. 



The First Series of the Proceedings of the Society, published in octavo, 

 1841 to 1856, of which eight volumes were completed Dec. 31, 1856, may be 

 obtained at $24.00, to members ; and to the public, $30.00. 



The Second Series of the Proceedings, commencing Jan. 1, 1857, (of which 

 eleven volumes are now completed, Dec. 31, 1867,) may be obtained at $33.00, 

 to members, or $3.00 per volume separately ; and to the public, $3.75 per 

 volume. These are now published monthly at $3.00 per annum, payable ia 

 advance, to members; and to the public, $3.75. 



Tne Society has established a Publication Fund; any person who may con- 

 tribute the sum of $75, will receive, during life, the Journal, quarto, and the 

 Proceedings, octavo ; or separately, the Journal $50, and the Proceedings $25, 



BOOKS FOR SALE. 



The Academy have a few copies of the following rare works, for sale at the 

 prices aflixed. 



iMichiiux' North American Sylva, 2 vols, octavo, Philadelphia, 1841, with 156 

 uucolored plates, $10.00. 



Monograph of the Unionidse of North America, by T. A. Conrad. Complete 

 with 60 colored plates, octavo, 1840, $8.50. 



Fossils of the Tertiary Formation of the United States, by T. A. Conrad. 

 Complete, with 49 plates, octavo, 1838, $5.00. 



Description of Shells of North America, with 68 colored plates, by Thos.Say, 

 1830—34, $10.50. 



Notice to Booksellers. — All the Publications of the Society will be sup- 

 plied to Booksellers at a disco int of 20 per cent, on the prices charged to the 



public. 



Applica'ion tobe made to Wm.S. Vadx, Chairman of the Publication Com- 

 mittee, 1700 Arch Street, or to the Librarian, at the Hall of the Academy, cor- 

 ner of Broad and Sansom Sts. 



I/ionrfon, TRiJBNER & CO., 

 No. 60 Paternoster Row. 



I New York, WM. WOOD k C0.» 

 (^ No. 61 Walker Et. 



January, 18G8. 




CONTENTS 



Remarks on fragments of a large Enaliosaurian. By Prof. E. 



D. Cope 92 



Remarks on the New Sj^ecies of Osmerus (O. Sergeanti.) By 



Thaddeus Norris 93 



Description of Nine Species of Unionidse from Lake Nicaragua, 



Central America. By Isaac Lea 94 



An examination of the Reptilia and Batrachia obtained by the 



Orton Expedition to Equador and the Upjoer Amazon, Avith 



notes on other Species. By E. D, Cope 96 



Sexual Law in Acer dasycarpum Ehrb. By Thomas Meehan. 120 



On a new Mineral in Cryolite. By Theo. D. Rand.. 142 



Description of sixteen New Species of the genus Unio of the 



United States. By Isaac Lea 143 



Notes on some singular forms of Chinese species of Unio. By 



Isaac Lea 145 



List of Birds collected at Laredo, Texas, in 1866 and 1867. By 



H. B. Butcher,M. D 148 



Descriptions of four New Species of Exotic Unionidse. By 



Isaac Lea 150 



Descriptions of twenty-six New Species, of Melanid^e of the 



United States. By Isaac Lea ; 151 




PROCEEDINGS 



OF THE 



ACADIMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES 



OF 



PHILADELPHIA. 



No. 3.— June, July and AuLJiist, 1868. 



PHILADELPHIA: 



ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES, 



Corner of Broad aud Sansom Streets 



1S68. 



,ii^ 



Merribew & Son, Printers, 243 Arcli St., Philadelphia. 





PUBLICATIONS 



OF 



THE ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES 



OF PHILADELPHIA. 



Five volumes of the New Series of the Journal and Part II. of Vol. 6 (Quarto) 

 have been issued,— 1847 to 1867. The price per volume of four parts is $10.00, 

 or $3.00 per part to members ; and to the public, $12.50 per volume, or $3.75 

 per part. 



The First Series of the Journal, 1817 to 1842, in eight volumes, octavo, may 

 be obtained at $24.00, or for separate volumes $3.25 per volume. 



The First Series of the Proceedings of the Society, published in octavo, 

 1841 to 1856, of which eight volumes were completed Dec. 31, 1856, may be 

 obtained at $24.00, to members ; and to the public, $30.00. 



The Second Series of the Proceedings, commencing Jan. 1, 1857, (of which 

 eleven volumes are now completed, Dec. 31, 1867,) may be obtained at $33.00, 

 to members, or $3.00 per volume separately ; and to the public, $3.75 per 

 volume. These are now published monthly at $3.00 per annum, payable in 

 advance, to members; and to the public, $3.75. 



The Society has established a Publication Fund; any person who may con- 

 tribute the sura of $75, will receive, during life, the Journal, quarto, and the 

 Proceedings, octavo ; or separately, the Journal $50, and the Proceedings $25. 



BOOKS FOR SALE. 



The Academy have a few copies of the following rare works, for sale at the 

 prices affixed. 



Michaux' North American Sylva, 2 vols, octavo, Philadelphia, 1841 with 156 

 uncolored plates, $10.00. 



Monograph of the Unionidae of North America, by T. A. Conrad. Complete 

 with 60 colored plates, octavo, 1840, $8.50. 



Fossils of the Tertiary Formation of the United States, by T. A. Conrad. 

 Complete, with 49 plates, octavo, 1838, $5.00. 



Description of Shells of North America, with 68 colored plates, by Thos.Say 

 1830—34, $10.50. 



Notice to Booksellers. — AH the Publications of the Society will be sup- 

 plied to Booksellers at a discount of 20 per cent, on the prices charged to the 

 public. 



Application to be made to Wm. S. Vau.x, Chairman of the Publication Com- 

 mittee, 1700 Arch Street, or to the Librarian, at the Hall of the Academy, cor- 

 ner of Broad and Sansom Sts. 



(Lo7idon,TU.iJB'SER & CO., 

 No. 60 Paternoster Row. 

 Agents, \ 



I New York, WM. WOOD & CO., 

 L No. 61 Walker St. 



Janvanj, 1868. 




CONTENTS. 



Variations in Epigsea repens. By Thomas Meehan 15o 



Monoecism in Luzula campestris. By Thomas Meehan I-dS 



Account of the discovery of the fresh-water origin of certain 

 deposits of Sand and Clays in west New Jersey. By E. D. 



Cope 15T 



Remarks on some remains of Extinct Cetacea, etc. By Prof 



E. D. Cope 159 



Description of seven New Species of Unio from North Caro- 

 lina. By Isaac Lea 160 



Description of two new Species of Unionidse from Equador. 



By Isaac Lea 161 



Descriptions of Unionidte from the Lower Cretaceous Forma- 

 tion of New Jersey, By Isaac Lea 162 



A sketch of the Natural Order Liliacese, as represented in the 

 Flora of the States of Oregon and California, with special 

 reference to the Plants collected in an excursion along our 



Pacific Coasts, A. D. 1866. By Alphonso Wood 165 



Notice of some Vertebrate Remains from Harden Co., Texas. 



By Joseph Leidy, M. D 17-4 



Indication of an Elotherium in California. By Jos. Leidy, M.D. 177 

 Notice of some Reptilian Remains from Nevada. By Joseph 



Leidy, M.D - 177 



Notice of some Vertebrate Remains from the West Indian 



Islands. By Joseph Leidy, M.D 178 



Remarks on the Leaves of Coniferse. By Thomas Meehan.... 181 

 Mitchella repens, D., a dioecious plant. By Thomas Meehan.. 183 

 Second contribution to the History of the Vertebi'ata of the 



Miocene period of the United States. By E. D. Cope 184 



Notice of some remains of Horses. By Joseph Leidy, M.D... 195 

 Notice of some Extinct Cetaceans. By Joseph Leidy, M.D... 196 

 Remarks on a jaw fragment of Megalosaurus. By Joseph 



Leidy, M.D 197 



Remarks on Conosaurus of Gibbes. By Joseph Leidy, M.D... 200 




Merrihew & Son, Printers, 243 Arch St., Philadelphia. 





PUBLICATIONS 



OF 



THE ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES 



OF PHILADELPHIA. 



Five volumes of the New Series of the Journal and Part II. of Vol. 6 (Quarto) 

 have been issued, — 1847 to 1867. The price per volume of four parts is $10.00, 

 or $3.00 per part to members ; and to the public, $12.50 per volume, or .$3.75 

 per part. 



The First Series of the Journal, 1817 to 1842, in eight volumes, octavo, may 

 be obtained at $24.00, or for separate volumes $3.25 per volume. 



The First Series of the Proceedings of the Society, published in octavo, 

 1841 to 1856, of which eight volumes were completed Dec. 31, 1856, may be 

 obtained at $24.00, to members ; and to the public, $30.00. 



The Second Series of the Proceedings, commencing Jan. 1, 1857, (of which 

 eleven volumes are now completed, Dec. 31, 1867,) may be obtained at $33.00, 

 to members, or $3.00 per volume separately ; and to the public, $3.75 per 

 volume. These are now published monthly at $3.00 per annum, payable in 

 advance, to members; and to the public, $3.75. 



The Society has established a Publication Fund ; any person who may con- 

 tribute the sum of $75, will receive, during life, the Journal, quarto, and the 

 Proceedings, octavo ; or separately, the Journal $50, and the Proceedings $25. 



BOOKS FOR SALE. 



The Academy have a few copies of the following rare works, for sale at the 

 prices affixed. 



Michaux' North American Sylva, 2 vols, octavo, Philadelphia, 1841, with 156 

 nncolored plates, $10.00. 



Monograph of the Unionidae of North America, by T. A. Conrad. Complete 

 with 60 colored places, octavo, 1840, $8.50. 



Fossils of the Tertiary Formation of the United States, by T, A. Conrad. 

 Complete, with 49 plates, octavo, 1838, $5.00. 



Description of Shells of North America, with 68 colored plates, by Thos. Say, 

 1830—34, $10.50. 



Notice to Booksellers. — All the Publications of the Society will be sup- 

 plied to Booksellers at a discoant of 20 per cent, on the prices charged to the 

 public. 



Application to be made to Wm. S. Vaux, Chairman of the Publication Com- 

 mittee, 1700 Arch Street, or to the Librarian, at the II ill of the Academy, cor- 

 ner of Broad and Sansom Sts. 



fZo?!f/o/», TRUBNER & CO., 

 I No. (iO Paternoster Row 



Agents, \ 



I N,'w York, W.M. WOOD & CO.. 

 (, Xo. 61 Walker Tt. 



January, 1868. 




CONTENTS. 



On the Crocodilian genus Perosuchus. By E. D. Cope 203 



Notice of American Species of Ptychodus. By Joseph Leidy, 



M.D 205 



Synopsis of the Extinct Batrachia of North America. By Ed- 

 ward D. Cope, A. M 208 



On Agaphelus, a genus of toothless Cetacea. By E. D. Cope.. 221 

 Observations on the occurrence of Cupriferous Ores in Texas. 



By Dr. F. A. Genth 227 



Notice of some American Leeches. By Joseph Leidy, M.D... 229 

 Notice of some remains of Extinct Pachyderms. By Joseph 



Leidy, M.D 230 



On some Cretaceous Reptilia. By E. D. Cope -. 233 



On the Origin of Genera. By Edward D. Cope, A. M 242 




PROCEEDINGS 



OF THE 



ACADIMY OF MTOAL SCIMCES 



OP 



PHILADELPHIA 



No. 5.— November and December, IS 68. 



PHILADELPHIA: 



ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES, 



Corner of Broad and Sansom Streets. 



1868. 



Merribew &, i^on, Printers, 243 Arch St., Philadelphia. 




NOTICE TO STUDENTS OF NATURAL HISTORY 



The children of the late Augustus E. Jessup, wishing to carry out 

 the intention of their father, " j^ay to the Academy the sum of four 

 hundred and eighty dollars per annum, to be used for the support 

 of one or more deserving poor young man or men, who may desire 

 to devote the whole of his or their time and energies to the study of 

 any of the Natural Sciences." 



Several young men furnishing evidence of requisite qualifications, 

 on application to the Curators may receive benefit from the Jessup 

 Fund. 




PUBLICATIONS 



OF 



THE ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES 



OF PHILADELPHIA. 



Five volumes of the New Series of the Journal and Part III. of Vol. 6 (Quarto) 

 have been issued,-1847 to 1868. The price per volume of four parts is $10.00 

 or $3.00 per part to members ; and to the public, $12.50 per volume, or $3 75 

 per part. ^ , w . ■ ^ 



The First Series of the Journal, 1817 to 1842, in eight volumes, octavo, may 

 be obtained at $24.00, or for separate volumes $3.25 per volume 



lR!w''!?-/t'','V'' ^^°^^^*^^"^^ '''^' Society, published in octavo, 

 I. .J ^'^''^^^igl^t volumes were completed Dec. 31, 1856, maybe 

 obtained at $24.00, to members ; and to the public, $30.00. 



The Second Series of the Proceedings, commencing Jan. 1, 1857, (of which 

 twelve volumes are now completed, Dec. 31, 1868,) may be obtained at $33 00 

 to members, or $3.00 per volume separately; and to the public, $3 75 per 

 volume. These are now published monthly at $3.00 per annum, payable in 

 advance, to members; and to the public, $3.75. 



The Society has established a Publication Fund ; any person who mav con 

 tribute the sum of $75, will receive, during life, the Journal, quarto, a^d the 

 Proceedings, octavo ; or separately, the Journal $50, and the Proceedings $25. 



BOOKS FOR SALE. 



The Academy have a few copies of the following rare works, for sale at the 

 prices affixed. 



Michaux' North American Sylva, 2 vols, octavo, Philadelphia, 1841 with 156 

 uncolored plates, $10.00. ' 



Monograph of the Unionidae of North America, by T. A. Conrad. Complete 

 with 60 colored plates, octavo, 1840, $8.50. 



Fossils of the Tertiary Formation of the United States, by T. A. Conrad 

 Complete, with 49 plates, octavo, 1838, $5.00. 



Description of Saells of North America, with 68 colored plates, bv Thos Sav 

 1830— 34, $10.50. ' J' ^""^-oay. 



Notice to Booksellers.-AH the Publications of the Society will be sup- 

 plied to Booksellers at a discount of 20 per cent, on the prices char-ed to the 

 public. " 



Application to be made to Wm. S. Vadx, Chairman of the Publication Com- 

 mittee, 1700 Arch Street, or to the Librarian, at the Hall of the Academy cor- 

 ner of Broad and Sansom Sts. ' 



( London, TRiJBy!En & CO., 

 Age 



1 , 



I No. 60 Paternoster Row. 



nts, •{ 



I New Fork, Wll. WOOD & CO., 



7- ,„.., I- No. 61 Walker St. 



Januari/, 1869. 




COISrTENTS. 



Vaviations in Taxodium and Pinus. By Thomas Meehan 300 



Remarks on the Geology and Mineralogy of Venezuela. By 



R. P. Stevens ••• •••• ^^^ 



Sixth Contribution to the Herpetology of Tropical America. 



By Edward D. Cope, A.M 305 



Notice of some remains of extinct Insectivora from Dakota. 



By Joseph Leidy ^1^ 



Observations on Reptiles of the Old World. Art. II. By 



E. D. Cope Sl*^ 



Note on some points in the structure and habits of the Palse- 



ozoic Crinoidea. By F. B. Meek and A. H. Worthen...... 323 



On the Seed Vessels of Forsy thia. By Thomas Meehan 334 



Remarks on some types of Carboniferous Crinoidea, Avith de- 

 scriptions of new genera and species of the same, and of 



one Echinoid. By F. B. Meek and A. H. Worthen 335 



Descriptions of seven new species of American Birds from va- 

 rious localities, with a note on Zonotrichia melanotis. 



By Geo. N. Lawrence •■■■ 359 



Analytical Table of the species of Baridius inhabiting the 



United States. By ■ John L. LeConte, M. D 361 



The Gyrinidse of America, north of Mexico. By John L. Le 



Conte, M. D ••••• 3*35 



Notes on the species of Agonoderus, Bradycellus and Stenolo- 

 phus inhabiting America, north of Mexico. By John L. 

 LeConte, M.D 373 



\.- 




PROCEEDINGS 



OF THE 



ACADEMY OP NATURAL SCIENCES 



OP 



PHILADELPHIA. 



No. 6. -December, 1868. 



PHILADELPHIA: 



ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES, 



Corner of Broad and Sansom Streets. 



1868. 



Merrihew & Son, Printers, 243 Arch St., Philadelphia. 




NOTICE TO STUDENTS OF NATURAL HISTORY. 



The children of tlie late Augustus E. Jessup, wishing to carry out 

 the intention of their father, " j^ay to the Academy the sum of four 

 hundred and eighty dollars joer annum, to be used for the support 

 of one or more deserving poor young man or men, who may desire 

 to devote the whole of his or their time and energies to the study of 

 any of the Natural Sciences." 



Several young men furnishing evidence of requisite qualifications, 

 on application to the Curators may receive benefit from the Jessuj) 

 Fund. 




P U B i. I C A T I N S 



OP 



THE ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES 



OF PHILADELPHIA. 



Five volumes of the New Series of the Journal and Part III. of Vol. 6 (Quarto) 

 have been issued, — 1847 to 1868. The price per volume of four parts is $10.00, 

 or $3.00 per part to members ; and to the public, $12.50 per volume, or $3.75 

 per part. 



The First Series of the Journal, 1817 to 1842, ia eight volumes, octavo, may 

 be obtained at $24.00, or for separate volumes $3.25 per volume. 



The First Series of the Proceedings of the Society, published in octavo, 

 1841 to 1856, of which eight volumes were completed Dec. 31, 1856, may be 

 obtained at $24.00, to members ; and to the public, $30.00. 



The Second Series of the Proceedings, commencing Jan. 1, 1857, (of which 

 twelve volumes are now completed, Dec. 31, 1868,) may be obtained at $33.00, 

 to members, or $3.00 per volume separately ; and to the public, $3.75 per 

 volume. These are now published monthly at $3.00 per annum, payable in 

 advance, to members; and to the public, $3.75. 



The Society has established a Publication Fund; any person who may con- 

 tribute the sum of $75, will receive, during life, the Journal, quarto, and the 

 Proceedings, octavo ; or separately, the Journal $50, and the Proceedings $25. 



BOOKS FOR SALE. 



The Academy have a few copies of the following rare works, for sale at the 

 prices affixed. 



Michaux' North American Sylva, 2 vols, octavo, Philadelphia, 1841, with 156 

 uncolored plates, $10.00. 



Monograph of the Unionidae of North America, by T. A. Conrad. Complete 

 with 60 colored plates, octavo, 1840, $8.50. 



Fossils of the Tertiary Formation of the United States, by T. A. Conrad. 

 Complete, with 49 plates, octavo, 1838, $5.00. 



Description of Shells of North Amejrica, with G8 colored plates, by Thos. Say, 

 1830—34, $10.50, 



Notice to Booksellers. — All the Publications of the Society will be sup- 

 plied to Booksellers at a discount of 20 per cent, on the prices charged to the 

 public. 



Application to be made to Wm. S. Vaox, Chairman of the Publication Com- 

 mittee, 1700 Arch Street, or to the Librarian, at the Hall of the Academy, cor- 

 ner of Broad and Sansom Sts. 



( London, TRVBSER & CO., 

 I No. 60 Pattrnoster Row. 



Agents, \ 



I New York, WM. WOOD & CO., 

 t No. 61 Walker St. 



January, 1869. 




CONTENTS. 



Eeport of the Curators 383 



Librarian's Rej5ort 385 



Eejwrt of the Recording Secretary 387 



Report of the, Committee on Herpetology and Ichthyology 387 



Reports of the Conchological Section : — 



Recorder's Report 388 



Report of the Secretary 389 



Conservator's Rej^brt 390 



Librarian's Report 391 



Officers for 1869 392 



Elections for 1868 393 



Correspondence of the Academy..... 394 



Donations to the Museum 396 



" " Library 400 



Index to Genera 420 



General Index 427 



Proceedings of the Biological and Microscopical Department 



for 1868 429 






MBL WHOI LIBRARY 



UH lfiR2 1 





