iiiiiilll: 





iifiiniiiiiiiiiiiJiiiiiiiiiiliJiil ill It! 



MMm 







r. 



PROCEEDINGS 



re. 



OF THE 



Academy of Natural Sciences 



OF 



PHILADELPHIA 



Volume LlV 



1902 



philadelphia : 

 The academy of Natural Sciences 



LOGAN SQUARE / V 1 



1902-1903 



^v 



I 



^ 



^\ 



\^ 




I 



SH 



The Academy of Xatural Sciences of Philauelpuia, 



March IS, 1903. 



I hereby certify that printed copies of the Proceedings for 1902 have 

 been presented to the meetings of the Academy and mailed as follows : — 



Pages 



COMMITTEE ON PUBLICATION: 

 Henry Skisneu, .M.I)., I'mi.ip P. (alvkkt, I'h.J)., 



Henry A. Pilsbry, Sc.D., Wit.mer' Stone, 



Edward J. Noi.an, M.D. , 

 The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M. D. , ex-officio. 



Editok: Ki>\vari> J, Noi,an, M.I). 




\ 



CONTENTS. 



For Announcements, Reports, etc., see General Index. 



Blaisdell, F. E., M.D. The Frous iu Benibicliuiu, with 



Description of New Species (Plate III) 70 



Brown, Arthur Erwin. A Collection of Reptiles and 



Batrachiaus from Borneo and the Loo Choo Islands, 175 

 A List of Reptiles and Batrachiaus in the Hariison- 



Hiller Collection from Snniatra, 698 



Chamberlin, Ralph V. A New Genus and Three New 



Species of Chilopods, 39 



Chapman, Henry C, M.I). Observations on Galeopithe- 



cus volans (Plates X, XI, XII), 241 



CoCKERELL, T. D. A. The Classification of Aleyrodidie 



(Plate XV), "... 279 



Crawley, Howard. Tlie Progressive Movement of Grega- 



rines (Plates I and II), 4 



A Peculiar Helizoan, 256 



Dall, William Healy. Synopsis of the Cardiiacea and 



of the American Species, 69(i 



FiELDE, Adele M. Notes on an Ant, 599 



Fox, William J. Contributions to a Knowledge of the 

 Hymenoptera of Brazil, No. 8, Eumeuidw, con- 

 tinued (Genus Odynerus), 44 



Hamilton, S. Harbert. Minerals from Santiago Prov- 

 idence, Cuba 744 



Harshberger, John W., Ph.D. The Germination of the 



Seeds of Carapa guianensis Aubl. (Plate VIII), . 122 

 Two Fungous Diseases of the AVhite Cedar (Plates 



XXII and XXIII) 461 



Atlditional Observations on the Strand Flora of Now 



Jei'sey, 642 



i 




11 



H.\Y, O. P. Descriptions of two Species of ExIiiiCt Tortoi- 

 ses, one New, 383 



Meehan, Thomas. Contributions to the Life-History of 

 • Plants, No. XVI. The Bartrani Oak, in Connec- 

 tion with Variation and Hybridism. Observations 

 on the Flowering of Ix)belia cardinalis and Lf)belia 



syphilitica, .S.S 



Miller, Gereit S. , Jr. Mammals Collected by Dr. \\'. 

 L. Abbott in the Region of the Indragiri Riv*r, 



Sumatra, 143 



Twenty New American Bats, 389 



Mills, Charles K., M.D. The Neurofibrillary Theory and 

 its Bearings upon Localization of Function in the 



Nervous System, 113 



Montgomery, Thomas H., Jr. On Phylogenetic Classifi- 

 cation 187 



Descriptions of Lycosidse and Oxyopidse of Philadelpliia 



and its Vicinity (Plates XXIX and XXX), . . 534 

 Moore, J. Percy. Some Bennuda OligocJKeta, with a 



Description of a New Species, 80 



Descriptions of some New Polynoidse, with a List of 

 Other Polychajta from North Greenland Waters 



(Plates Xill and XIV) 258 



MuRLiN, John Raymond, Ph.D. Absorption and Secre- 

 tion in the Digestive Sy.*teni of the I>aiid Isopods 



(Plate XVI), . . " 284 



Palmer, T. Chalk ley. Five New Species of Tracheln- 



ni.mas (Plate XXXV), Till 



Perkins, Henry Farnham. The Developnicut of Gonio- 

 ncnia ISInrbachii (Plates XXXI, XXXII, 



XXXIII, XXXIV) 750 



PiLSBRY, Henry A. New Land Molluscu from Japan and 



the Bonin Islands, 25 



Revision of Japanese Vivii)arid;T', with Notes on Melania 



and Bithynia (Plate IX) 115 



On the Localities of A. Adams' Japanese Helicidae, . 233 

 Additions to the Japanese Land Snail Fauna, VI 



(Plates XVII, XVIII, XIX, XX, XXI j, . . 360 

 Southwestern Land Snails 510 




Ill 



PiLSBRY, Henry A. Additions to the Japanese Land Snail 



Fauna, VII (Plates XXVII and XXVIII), . . TjIT 



New Laud Mollusca from Idaho, 59o 



Rehn, James A.. G. A New Species of the Ortliopterous 



Genus Pseudophyllus from Sumatra, 21 



A New Bat of the Genus Glossophagus, 37 



A Revision of the Genus Mormoops, 160 



On the GeniLs Phrvnotettix Glover (Haldemanella 



Auct.), ^^^^^ 



C^ontributions Toward a Knowledge of the Orthoptera of 



Japan and Korea, I. Acrididse, 629 



Three New American Bats, 638 



Notes ou the Orthoptera of New Mexico and Western 



Texas, "17 



Reesk, Albert M. Structure and Develojiment of the 

 Thyroid Gland in Pelromyzon (Plates IV, V, VI, 

 VII), S-"' 



Rhoads, Samuel N. Synopsis of the American Jlartens, . 443 



Smith, Burxett. Phylogeny of the Species of Fulgur with 

 Remarks on an Abnormal Form of Fulgur cana- 

 liculatuni, ami Sexual Dimorphism in I\ilgur car- 

 iea, •'■)<>5 



Springer, Ada. On some Living and Fossil Snails of the 



Genus Physa, tVmud at Las Vegas, New Mexico, . 513 



Stone, Witmer. A Collection of Birds from Sumatia, 

 obtained by Alfred (' Harrison, Jr., and Dr. H. 

 M. Hiller," f570 



Stone, Witmer, and J. A. G. Rehn. A Collection of 

 Mammals from Sumatra, with a Review of the 

 Genera Nycticebus and Tragulus, 127 



ViEREfK, H. Hymenoptera from Southern California and 



New Mexico, with Descriptions of New Species, . 728 



Walker, Bryant, and Henry A. Pilsbry. Tlie jNIoI- 

 lusca of the Moimt Mitchell Region, North Caro- 

 lina (Plates XXIV and XXV), 4i;j 





PROCEEDINGS 



OF THE 



ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES 



OF 



PHILADELPHIA. 



1902. 



January 7. 

 The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M,D., in the Chair. 



Thirty-two persons present. 



Papers under the following titles were presented for publication : 

 " The Progressive Movement of Gregarines," by Howard 



Crawley. 



' ' A Collection of Reptiles and Batrachians from Borneo and the 



Loo Choc Islands," by Arthur Erwin Brown. 



The Council reported that the following Standing Committees had 

 been appointed to serve during the ensuing year : 



On Library. — Dr. C. N. Pierce, Thomas A. Robinson, Henry 

 C. Chapman, M.D., Charles Schaeffer, M.D., and George 

 Vaux, Jr. 



On Publications. — Henry Skinner, M.D., H.A. Pilsbry, Sc.D., 

 Philip P. Calvert, Ph.D., Edward J. Nolan, M.D., and Witmer 

 Stone. 

 1 




2 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



On Instruction and Lectures. — Benjamin Smith Lyman, 

 Uselma C. Smith, Henry A. Pilsbry, Sc.D., Charles Morris and 

 Philip P. Calvert, Ph.D. 



Committee of Council on By-Laws. — Charles Roberts, Isaac 

 J. Wistar, Theodore D. Raud and Arthur Erwin Brown. 



January 14. 



The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M.D., in the Chair. 



Sixteen persons present. 



A paper entitled ' ' A New (Jenus and Three New Species of Chi- 

 lopods, " by Ralph V. Cliamberlin, was presented for publication. 



January 21. 



The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M.D., in the Chair. 



Nine persons present. 



A paper entitled "A New Pseudophyllus f rom Sumatra," by 

 James A. G. Rehn, was presented for publication. 



The deaths of Caleb C. Cre-sson, a member, and of Alpheus C. 

 Hyatt, a corresjiondent, were announced. 



January 28. 

 The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M.D., in the Chair. 

 Thirty persons present. ■ 



Papers under the following titles were presented for publication : 

 " Contributions to the Life-Histories of Plants, No. XVT," by 



Thomas Jleehan. 



" New Land Molhi.sca from Japan and the Bonin Islands," by 



Henry A. Pilsbry. 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 3 



The death of Charles Eoberts, on the 22d inst., having been 

 announced, the following minute was adopted : 



The Academy deeply regrets the death of its member, Charles 

 Eoberts, who, since his first association with the society manifested 

 his interest in its welfare so constantly and jiractically. The qual- 

 ities which characterized him as a model citizen in his connection 

 with public interests, his strict integrity, clearness of judgment and 

 self-sacrificing devotion to duty were of the highest value in one 

 concerned with the administration of the affaii-s of the Academy ; 

 as a member of the Council, he has been judicious as an adviser and 

 helpful in all that made for the advancement of science. The 

 Academy tenders_its sincere condolence to his widow. 



The following were elected members: J. Chester Bradley, 

 Marian G. Nimlet, Alfred C. Harrison, Jr., H. N. Hiller, M.D., 

 Judson Daland, M. D. , Owen S. Paxson, F. Ehrenfeld, and Burnett 

 Smith. 



The following were ordered to be printed : 




PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



THE PROGRESSIVE MOVEMENT OF GREGARINES. 

 BY HOWARD CRAWLEY. 



I. Introduction. 



While making observations on living specimens of Stenophora 

 juli,^ incident to a study of the life-history of this gregarine, I 

 became impressed by the fact that Schewiakoff's currently accepted 

 explanation for the progressive movement of gregarines does not 

 satisfactorily account for all of the phenomena which the animals 

 display. I was working at the time in the Zoological Laboratory 

 of Harvard University, and at the suggestion of the Director, 

 Prof. E. L. Mark, an investigation of gi'egarine movements of all 

 sorts was undertaken. I desire to take this opportunity to express 

 my sincere gratitude to Prof. Mark for the valuable aid which he 

 rendered me. 



The work was done almost exclusively on living animals, after the 

 method used by Schewiakoff, wliicli will be described below. 

 Stenophora juli, from the intestine of Jidus, and Echinomera 

 hispida, from the intestine of Lithobim, were the species studied. 



II. Historical and Critical. 



The movements displayed by gregarines are of two kinds. The 

 one, which consists of contractions of the body, is readily explain- 

 able by the existence of the muscular layer. The other, for whicli 

 I shall use the term progression, is a movement of translation, 

 during which the animal glides from place to place. It is usually 

 described as taking place without the slightest bodily movement. 

 This supposition, combined with the fact that gregarines possess no 

 motor organs, rendered their progression apparently causeless, and 

 until 1894, when Schewiakoff published his paper, it was regarded 

 as one of the misolved problems of biology. Prior to this date, 

 biological literature contains but two suggested solutions of the 

 problem. Lankester (1872, p. 347) says: " On slitting up a large 



' The nomenclalure useil in Ibis paper is that given by Labbu (1899). 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 5 



Sipimculus, and allowing its abundant pink perivisceral fluid to 

 run into a glass dish, my attention was attracted by two white 

 flakes, of about an eighth of an inch in length, which were swim- 

 ming actively in the liquid. Their movement was like that of 

 some planarians, and seemed to depend on the undulation of their 

 lateral margins, which were plainly to be seen in a state of vibra- 

 tion. These white flakes turned out to be specimens of Monocystis 

 sipunculi." 



It is probable, however, that the movements here seen were noth- 

 ing but the violent contortions which gregarines frequently show 

 when first removed from their native envaronment. Such contor- 

 tions might readily cause progression were the animals floating 

 freely in a fluid. Moreover, Lankester himself appeai-s never to 

 have laid much stress on this single observation, for to my knowl- 

 edge it is not referred to again in any of his later contributions on 

 the Gregarinida. 



Frenzel (1891 p. 287 et seq.) suggested that the progression of 

 gregarines is due to a chemotactic affinity between them and their 

 food. Such an explanation, however, is manifestly inadequate. 



Schewiakoff (1894), as the result of a painstaking study, came to 

 the conclusion that gregarines progress by means of the extrusion 

 of gelatinous fibres. These fibres are derived from a layer of sub- 

 stance which is deposited between the cuticle and the ectoplasm. 

 They pass out to the exterior through slit-Uke openings through the 

 cuticle which occur in the grooves between the longitudinal thick- 

 enings. Upon their emergence, they do not project radially from 

 the surface of the gregarine, but rim backward until the posterior 

 end of the animal is reached. Somewhat hardened by the action 

 of the surrounding watery media, they then project backward and 

 free of the animal. This extrusion, which takes place over the 

 entire surface of the gregarine, residts in the formation behind it 

 of a hollow cylinder, the walls of which have by now acquired a 

 certain amount of rigidity. The posterior end of this cylinder, 

 impinging upon some resistant body, becomes fixed. The extriLsion 

 continuing, the cylinder lengthens, and the gregarine is pushed 

 passively forward. 



Schewiakoff undertook his studies in the light of Lauterborn's 

 discovery that diatoms progress by means of the extrusion of gelati- 

 nous threads. There is a difference in the progressive movements 




6 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



of these two grou25s of organisms in that diatoms move indifferently 

 in two directions, whereas gregarines always move forward. But 

 in both cases the movement takes place without visible cause, and 

 when Lauterborn showed that diatom.s jjrogress by means of the 

 extrusion of threads of an invisible substance, a presumption was 

 established that the cause for gregarine progression was to be sought 

 for along similar lines. 



Accordingly, Schewakoff undertook a study of living gregarines. 

 As mounting media, he employed either normal salt t;(jlution or 

 an albumin solution of the following formula : 



Egg-albumin, 20 cc. 



Distilled water, 200 cc. 



Sodium chloride, 1 gr- 



Powdered carmine, Chinese black and, in some cases, native sepia 

 were added to the fluid, so that invisible extrusions from the grega- 

 rines could be detected. 



The results were to show that gregarines usually caught up and 

 pulled after them a number of particles of carmine, etc., thus 

 demonstrating the presence of a sticky substance. Further, as a 

 gregarine progressed through a medium thickly filled with carmine 

 particles, there was always left behind it a clear trail. Schewiakoff 

 says that this does not happen with other Protozoa, and so furnishes 

 proof that gregarines leave something behind them. This substance 

 was wholly invisible imder ordinary circumstances, but very delicate 

 manipulation enabled him to stain it and to demonstrate that grega- 

 rines actually are followed by long fibres of extreme tenuity. Stress 

 was laid upon the fact that carmine particles in the neighborhood 

 of a motionless gregarine could be seen to show molecular move- 

 ments ; next to .«]ip backward along the surface of the animal and 

 to collect in a lump at the posterior end, and that only after this 

 had taken place would the animal jirogress. 



In the course of what follows, tlierc will be frequent occa,sion lo 

 refer to Schewiakoff' s statements, and the conclusions that he draws 

 from them, in much greater detail. I have given above only his 

 results, and a few of the more important observations upon which 

 these results were based. His explanation of the cause of gre- 

 garine progression has been accepted by most authors, yet in some 

 cases with a considerable amount of reserve. Lang (1901, p. 127) 

 and Doflein (1901, p. 161) accept it without comment. Calkins 




1902.] NATUEAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 7 



(1901, p. 149) says: " although very improbable at first sight, it 

 is the only one thus far that fits the case." Wasielewski (1896, 

 p. 22) rejects it, while Delage et Ht'rouard (1896, footnote on p. 

 261) say: " Pour bizarre qu'elle paraisse, il faut bien 1' accepter 

 jusqu'a nouvel ordre, car elle repose sur des faits observi^s et on 

 n'en counait aucuu autre a lui substituer." 



Schaudinn (1900) and Siedlecki (1899) are credited with having 

 confirmed Schewiakoff, the former by Lang (1901, p. 128) and the 

 latter by Calkins (1901, p. 149).' Schaudinn (pp. 222-224) gives 

 data which show that the sporozoites and merozoites of Coceidium 

 schubergii extrude fibres of a gelatinous substance. These fibres 

 carry backward such small particles as may be in the immediate 

 vicinity of the coccidians, and form a trail behind them. In so 

 far as the extrusion of a gelatinous substance is concerned, Schau- 

 dinn' s observations unquestionably confirm those of Schewiakoff, 

 but, as will be seen later, they do not necessarily show that this 

 gelatinous substance is the cause of progression. 



Siedlecki (1899, p. 521) says: " Es liisst sich aber bei Mono- 

 eystis ascidiw leicht noch ein anderer Bewegimgsmodus beobachten : 

 ohne irgendwie ihre Gestallt zu wechseln gleitet sie namlich plotzlich 

 vorwarts. Die Ursache der Bewegung liegt, wie es Schewiakoff 

 fiir andere Gregarinen beschrieben hat, in einer plotzlichen Aus- 

 scheidung von Schleim aus dem Hinterende des Korpers, und es ist 

 leicht festzustellen, wie das Thier durch einen aus ihm plotzlich 

 herauswachsenden Schleimfaden vorwarts geschoben wird." This 

 can scarcely be regarded as a confirmation of Schewiakoff. 



III. Observations. 



1. As a necessary preliminary, attention is here called to two 

 points of considerable importance. The first of these concerns the 

 shape of gregariues. The statement that gregarines are fiat, like 

 trematodes, is made in some text-books, but tliis is an error when 

 applied to the Polycystidea. The gregarines of this group are 

 monaxial animals, with a circular cross-section, and any plane 

 passing through the axis divides them into morphologically identical 

 halves. This is shown by sectioned gregarines, and it may readily 

 be seen by watching the living animals. 



' The date, 1900, given by Calkins to Siedlecki's paper is incorrect. 




8 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



The second point concerns progression. Gregarines are stated to 

 show a " gliding " movement, and this, as we have seen, has been 

 carefully studied. But I have been unable to find in the published 

 literature on these animals any conclusive statement bearing upon 

 the question as to whether gregarines creep or swim. Gliding could 

 readily be effected in either of these two wavs. When con^'sidera- 

 tion Ls taken of their nalive environment, a very strong presumption 

 is establLshed that gregarines creep, yet certainly the matter is one 

 which necessitates a demonstration. 



This demonstration Ls not at all difficult. In all microscopic 

 mounts, gregarmes either lie against the under surface of the cover- 

 glass or upon the slide, which can be sho^vn bv niising or lowermg 

 the tube of the microscope. Either the upper or under surface of 

 the animals remams in focus until evervthing else has disappeared 

 from view. This shows that all studies on progression have been 

 made on anunals which are m contact with a surface. 



Gregarines possess and at times exert the power to progress con- 

 tmuously m straight lines. But more ' usuaUv the progression is 

 neither straight nor continuous. The animal advances by fits and 

 starts, and the path pursued may be a zigzag or a series of curves 

 i'lnte I, fig. 1 shows the positions occupied by a progressing greg- 

 arine, a bemg the eariiest and / the latest. To the right is sketched 

 the line generated by any given point of the animal's body 

 Under such circumstances the advance is not continuous, but slow 

 and hesitatmg, and accompanied bv frequent stops. There may be 

 an advance of periiaps the body length, followed by a short pause 

 Upon progression being resumed, it may be in the .same or in a 

 sbghtly different direction. The proj^er itlea will be obtained by 

 su,)p..smg the stops to take place anywhere along the broken Ibe 

 shown in the figure. 



ThU mode of progression is very common, and at least in Steno- 

 pohorajuh IS much more frequently seen than continuous progres- 

 sion in a straight line. The alterations in the direction of the path 

 are not, however, always so frequent as tho.se shown in fig. 1 and 

 the animal may advance along a series of cur^'es. On tie other 

 hand, very short turns are often seen (Plate I, ficrs 2 3 and 4) 



While progrcssmg in any of these ways, gregarines' may or may 

 not display evident muscular movements. In all published accounts 

 of gregarine progression, the statement is made that the animals 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 9 



glide forward without any alteration in the Ijody form, and this is 

 frequently the appearance. The converse statement, that gliding 

 takes place while the animals are displaying evident muscular con- 

 tractions, has never, to my knowledge, been made, although the 

 fact itself can scarcely have escaped frequent observation. Yet 

 progression without alteration in the outline of the bodj' is no more 

 frequently seen than progression accompanied by obvious muscular 

 contractions. Gregarines may also progress, in either a straight 

 line or in zigzags, with the body held rigidly in a contorted form. 

 My observations here differ from those of Schewiakoff. On p. 348 

 he says that progressing gregarines may alter the direction of their 

 progression, and continues: " In solchen Fallen bemerkt man jedes 

 Mai, wenn die Beweguugsrichtung veriiudert wird, dass an der 



einen Seite der Gregarine eine Querfalte auftritt Die 



Gregarine wird aus der friiheren Beweguugsrichtung uach der Scite 

 hin abgelenkt, auf welcher die Einschniirung am Gregarinenkorper 

 erfolgte. Bleibt die Einschniirung liingere Zeit huidurch besfehen, 

 so wird die Bewegung bogenformig, ja sie kann sogar zu einer 

 spiraligen oder schleifenformigen werden. Wird die Einsch- 

 niirung aufgehoben, d. h., die Gregarine wieder gerade gestreckt, 

 so wird die Beweguug von Neuem geradlinig. " He believes that 

 the bending of the body is the cause of the turning. For when 

 the body Ls bent, the extrusion of the gelatinous fibres from the 

 bent side is hindered. The result is a weakening of the propelling 

 force on the bent side, with the natural result of a turnuig to that 

 side. Straightening of the body brings about a uniform protrusion 

 of the gelatinous fibres on all sides, with a resumption of progres- 

 sion in a straight lino. 



According to my ob.servations, however, it is impossible to estab- 

 lish any definite correlation between alterations in the direction of 

 progression and extensive muscular contractions. The animals 

 may turn without the slightest bending of the body. As Sche- 

 wiakoff says, they may turn and bend to the same side, but, on 

 the contrary, they frequently turn lo one side aud bend to the other. 

 Further, they may progress in a straight line with the body held 

 rigidly in a contorted form, as stated above. 



Progressing gregarines, without their progression being in any 

 ways checked, will often bend and suddenly straighten with a jerk. 

 This movement may take place a number of times and it has a 




10 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



certain bearing on the mode whereby progression is effected. The 

 bending of the body necessarily throws either the anterior or the 

 posterior end of the animal out of the line of progression (figs. 5 

 and 6). The former case (fig. 5) is not inconsistent with Sche- 

 wiakoff' s views, but the latter is (fig. 6). For such a movement 

 would presumably detach the animal from the gelatinous stalk, yet 

 it is effected with absolutely no pause in the progression. 



Observations made on Echinomera hispida are equally suggestive. 

 Fig. la-d shows the several positions successively occupied by a 

 progressing individual of this species in making a turn. It will be 

 seen that the animal bent sharply, so that the axis of the anterior 

 part formed nearly a right angle with that of the posterior part. 

 The narrow posterior part then swung rapidly around until it lay in 

 line with the rest of the animal. It seems impossible to avoid the 

 conclusion that this would have resulted in the breaking loose from 

 any attached stalk, with the consequent cessation of progression. 

 Yet there was not the slightest slackening in the speed of the 

 animal, which was considerable. 



2. On encountering obstructions, gregarines may simply slip off 

 to one side or the other. Frequently, however, when an obstruction 

 is met head-on, the protomerite holds its position for the moment 

 and the animal swings to and fro like a pendidiun. There may be 

 one or two to several of these swings, after which the progressive 

 movement may be resinned. This may take place without notice- 

 able change in the shape of the body. 



I am again obliged to differ with Schewiakoff, who (p. 343) 

 says: " Trifft die Gregarine auf ein Iliudernis, so steht sic einige 

 Zeif still ; es tritt dann eine Knickung am Korper der Gregarine 

 auf, worauf die Bewegung in einer neuen, durch die Knickung des 

 Vorderendes vorgezeiclineten Richtimg fortgesetzt wird." This 

 may happen, but, according to my observations, more often there is 

 no alteration in the shape of the body. It apparently depends 

 upon the force with which the gregarine strikes the obstruction, this 

 force being not nece.ssarily powcrfid enough to cause the animal to 

 bend. 



I believe that the swinging to and fro tells strongly against the 

 idea that gregarines are followed by an attached stalk of gelatinous 

 fibres. It is not easy to see how such a swinging could fail to 

 break the animal loose from any such stalk, whereupon it would 




1902.] NATURAL SUIKNCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 11 



come to rest. But this does not happen. Such a turn as that 

 shown in fig. 3 may be a matter of only a second or two. 



Another case is shown in fig. 4, where a-f show six positions 

 successively occupied by a progressing gregarine. It is difiicult to 

 see how the gelatinoiLs stalk can explain a progressive movement of 

 this sort, which was seen a number of times. 



3. Schewiakoff arrived at his conclusions partly from a study of 

 the action of carmine particles, etc. , in the vicinity of progressing 

 gregarines. Such particles are seen to slip backward along the 

 surface of the gregarine, and Schewiakoff believed they were being 

 pushed or carried backward by the extruding gelatinous substance. 

 He state.? that this take? place just before a gregarine begins to dis- 

 play a progressive movement, and continues during progression. 

 This is true, but these particles show such varied movements that it 

 is probable the extruding gelatin is not in all cases the cause. If 

 the extrusion of gelatinous fibres be the cause of gregarine progres- 

 sion, then the rate at which the gelatinous fibres are passed back- 

 ward should bear a direct ratio to the speed of the progressing 

 gregarine. The movement of the particles along the animal's sur- 

 face should mark the rate of extrusion, which should itself condition 

 the rate of progression. But these particles may slip backward 

 either more rapidly or more slowly than the gregarine is progres- 

 sing. They may also slip rapidly backward along the surface of a 

 gregarine which is not changing place, and further remain at a fixed 

 point on the surface of a progressing individual. As a rule, the 

 slipping is seen in progressing animals, but often it is not. Fre- 

 quently a progressing individual causes little or no disturbance 

 among the loose particles Ipng in its path, merely pushing them 

 aside as it advances. The particles may also move forward along 

 the animal's surface. This is seldom seen in progressing grega- 

 rines, but is frequent in those which are displaying changes of body 

 form. 



The movements of these small particles are so multifarious as to 

 suggest that they are due to different causes. It is probable that 

 surface tension is in part responsible. At the same time, the evi- 

 dence that gregarines extrude a gelatinous substance is wholly con- 

 clusive. The animals are sticky, and will often remain adhering to 

 the cover-glass in spite of rapid currents in the moimting fluid. I 

 have also seen the substance arising from the surface of a progres- 




- 12 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [Jan , 



sing gregarine, and constituting a trail liehiud it. I made this 

 observation but once, the gregarine being Echinomera hispida. 

 With Stenophora juli I have never been able to see it. My observa- 

 tion differs from those of Schewiakoff in that the trail does not 

 consist of fibres, but of a series of splashes (Plate II, fig. 8). The 

 substance arose from the surface of the gregarine as short rods, 

 which almost instanty expanded into irregidar drops. These drops 

 then became detached from the surface of the gregarine to con- 

 stitute the trail. 



I do not think that this observation gives any reason for ques- 

 tioning Schewiakoff's statement that the gelatinous substance passes 

 backward as fibres. But since an extrusion of the sort shown in 

 fig. 8 could hardly push the animal forward, the observation appears 

 to me significant in indicating that the trail is the effect of progres- 

 sion and not its cause. It is an intrinsic weakness of Schevviakoff' s 

 explanation that it gives no reason why the gelatinous substance 

 should pass backward instead of either forward or radially. If, 

 however, the cause for progression is to be sought for elsewhere, it 

 is easy to see why it passes backward. Upon its emergence on the 

 surface of the gregarine, it is merely left behind, in precisely the 

 same way as the mucus secreted by a snail is left behind as the 

 aniiiial advances. The pa&sing backward of the gelatinous substance 

 is the effect of progression, and not its cause. 



As Schewiakoff states, progressing gregarines gather up and drag 

 behind them masses of loo.sc particles. The size of these masses is 

 shown in figs. 9, 10 and 11. It often happens, however, that a 

 gregarine may travel for a considerable distance without gathering 

 up any such appendage. Except for perha])s half a dozen carmine 

 particles or minute fat-drops, the animal drags nothing along behind 

 it. This suggests that the quantity of adhesive substance on the 

 surface of gregarines is subject to variation. 



Whether Schewiakoff believes that the ability to extrude a gela- 

 tinous substance has been developed in gregarines for tlve purjwse 

 of locomotion does not appear. The extrusion of slimy substances 

 by endo-parasites is, however, a common phenomenon, and we 

 should look to find this power in a gregarine, just as we find it in 

 a cestode. 



In some cases, however, the sticky substance on the surface of 

 gregarines appears to be derived from the host-tissue. To study 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 13 



gregarines, the method is to break up the appropriate host-organ on 

 a slide, add a drop of some fluid, and place a cover-glass over the 

 mount. There is necessarily released a quantity of various organic 

 fluids, and these fluids are nearly always mucilaginous. That they 

 are responsible for certain of the phenomena displayed by grega- 

 rines is suggested by the following observations, which also bear 

 upon the question of gregarine progression. Fig. 12 shows a 

 gregarine distant a trifle more than its own length from a solid mass 

 of host-tissue. Between the gregarine and the host-tissue are a 

 number of small particles. If an animal so situated be watched, 

 it will be seen to advance slowly and unsteadily for a very short 

 distance, possibly the half of its length, but usually much less. It 

 will then stop, remain motionless for the fraction of a second, and 

 finally, with a sudden jerk, return to the position which it occupied 

 originally. The particles follow the movement of the gregarine, 

 those nearest to it moving the greatest distance. This suggests that 

 there is behind the gregarine a mass of an invisible, elastic substance, 

 in which both the gregarine and the small particles are entangled. 

 As the animal advances, this elastic substance is stretched, and 

 when the force which has caused the animal to advance is released, 

 it is brought back into its original position by the sudden shorten- 

 ing of the elastic substance. 



This phenomenon, which was seen time and again, firet caused 

 me to question the truth of Schewiakoff's explanation of gregarine 

 progression. For, if the advance be due to the elongation of a 

 stalk behind the animal, this stalk should prevent the slipping back- 

 ward. As will be developed later, I believe gregarine progression 

 is due to slight muscular movements,' not apparent under ordinary 

 observational conditions. In such cases as the one now under con- 

 sideration, the advance is resisted by the elastic sticky substance, 

 and when the power is released the gregarine is jerked passively 

 backward. Since it is those gregarines which are Ipng near the 

 host-tissue which behave in this manner, it is probable that the 

 elastic substance is derived in part from the host-cells. Gregarines 

 some distance from any host-tissue were never seen to act in this way. 



4. My studies had advanced to this point with no more result 

 than to conclude that Schewiakoff' s explanation of gregarine pro- 

 gression was probably incorrect. The case shown by fig. 12 sug- 

 gested that the problem was to be solved by watching the gregarine 




14 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [JaD., 



itself, although, assuming Schewiakoff to be incorrect, there was 

 no other conclusion possible. The existence of locomotor organs, 

 such as small cilia or temporary protoplasmic processes, was next 

 considered. There was not, however, the slightest evidence for such 

 organs to be detected with living gregariues, and the most rigid 

 staining methods gave wholly negative results. Varying the obser- 

 vational conditions was next tried. I had been making my studies 

 after the methods which I suppose have been generally employed in 

 work on li\'ing gregarines. The highest powers used were those 

 obtained with a one-eighth-inch dry lens and a No. 4 eye-piece. I 

 had also followed the instinctive tendency to focus on the periphery 

 of the gregarines, which results in studying no more than an optical 

 section of the animals. 



Knowing that Stenophorajuli has the longitudinal elevations of 

 the cuticle well developed, it occurred to me that they might furnish 

 a means of getting at additional data. Accordingly, I began to 

 make observations on the upper surface of the gregarines, using a 

 one-twelfth-inch oil-immersion lens. It developed at once that this 

 could not be done with ordinary illumination, on accoimt of the 

 opacity of most gregarines. But with the use of a lamp, it was 

 easy to get an illumination sufficiently intense to render the grega- 

 rines almost transparent. Tlie light was permitted to pass from 

 the mirror to the sub-stage condenser without the interjiosition of 

 blue or ground gla.»s, and the diaphragm was left well open. The 

 difficulty of managing a wet mount when studied under an oil- 

 immersion lens was obviated in .«ome cases by gluing the cover-glass 

 to the slide with vaseline or spermaceti. This is not always neces- 

 sary, for frequently the surface tension of the fluid of the mount 

 will liokl the cover-gla.ss perfectly rigid. 



This method verj- quicldy revealed the fact that gregariues show a 

 movement which hitherto appeal's to have escaped observation. 

 This I shall designate a.s the transverse movement. It may be seen 

 to take place when gregarines are behaving in any of tlie ways 

 already de.'cribed. It manifests Itself as a shifting of the cuticular 

 striations in a direction at right angles to the long axis of the ani- 

 mal. The more superficial granules of the endoplasm aL-^o take pari 

 in il, which indicates that the myocyte, or muscular layer, is in- 

 volved. There is often to be seen in contracting gregarines a flow of 

 trranulcs which calls to mind the flow of granules seen in an amoeba. 




1902. J NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 16 



A deep constriction in the deutomerite will cause such a flow. The 

 phenomenon just mentioned, however, is to aU appearances of a 

 totally different nature. It shows itself as a shifting, en masse, of 

 all the granules in sight. There is no flowing, and, so far as it is 

 possible to see, the granules maintain somewhat the same relative 

 positions. 



The reasons for supposing the muscular layer is involved in this 

 phenomenon are as follows : The muscular layer lies upon and is 

 directly continuous with the endoplasm. The latter is beset with 

 granules to its extreme limit. Away from the surface, there is 

 nothing to prevent a flow of these granides, but on the surface (of 

 the endoplasm) it is not unreasonable to suppose that the netlike 

 nuiscular layer entangles a number of these granules. In conse- 

 quence, when the muscular layer contracts, the superficial granules 

 are carried along with it. That there are granules embedded in 

 the muscular layer is indicated by what is seen in plasmolyzed 

 gregarines. In such animals, when the muscular layer is torn loose 

 from the endoplasm, it always carries with it a number of granides. 



The transverse movement is indifferently to one side or the other, 

 or else to and fro. It is displayed conspicuously when the grega- 

 rine is behaving in the manner described on pp. 12 and 1.3, and 

 illustrated in fig. 12. It also takes place when the animals turn, 

 and frequently in such cases the cuticular markings and superficial 

 granides are seen to sweep rapidly to one side, suggesting that the 

 gregarine is rotating on its long axis. That such a rotation actually 

 takes place can be confirmed by watching gregarines which have 

 the nucleus out of the middle line, or some other mark which ren- 

 dei-s it possible to distinguish one side from the other. 



In other cases there is nothing to demonstrate a rotation. The 

 transverse movement is slight and slow, being first to one side and 

 then to the other. This is seen when the animal is displaying the 

 slow typical glide. Should the animal then turn, the transverse 

 movement becomes more extensive and more rapid, while if pro- 

 gression be in any ways interfered with, a still greater increase in 

 the speed and extent of the transverse movement takes place. 



All of this occurs without the extensive muscular contractions 

 which gregarines so frequently display. But it is possible to estab- 

 lish a correlation between the transverse movement and what is 

 clearly a display of muscular activity. When a gregarine displays 




16 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [JaU. 



the common movement of a lateral displacement of the protomerite, 

 or a bending just behind the septum, it can be seen >vith moderate 

 powers that a wave of disturbance passes down the upper surface 

 well to the rear end of the animal. Under high powers, with their 

 limited focal depth, this wave is not readily seen unless it is the 

 upper surface of the animal that is being watched. It is a verv 

 common phenomenon, and it establishes the fact that those muscu- 

 lar impulse.s which are most CNndeut in the anterior part of the body 

 make their influence felt nearly as far as the posterior extremity. 

 Under moderate powers, it appears only as a wave passing down the 

 upper surface, but if higher powers be used, it can be seen that 

 this wave is the same ;is the transverse movement described above. 

 That is, bending of the anterior part of the body causes a trans- 

 verse movement of the cutieular striations and superficial gi-anides. 

 Moreover, the character of the bending bears a direct relation to 

 the character of the transverse movement. When the bending is 

 rapid and extensive, so also is the transverse movement, and it is 

 under such circumstances that evident rotation may take place. 



These phenomena are well seen in those animals which are entan- 

 gled in some sticky elastic substance, as described on p]). 12 and 

 13, and shown in fig. 12. Such animals show frequently a more 

 or less continuous bending of the anterior part of the body, and 

 simultaneously the transverse movement. 



In the case of animals which are gliding freely, the transverse 

 movement is always much less extensive. With these it usually 

 requires an oil-immersion lens to make satisfactory observations, 

 with the result that it is altogether impossible, on account of the large 

 size of Slenophora, to keep enough of the animal under observation 

 at any one time to see if both tlie bending and the transverse move- 

 ment take place together. Since, however, it is easy to see that an 

 extensive bending is accompanied by an exten.sive transverse move- 

 ment, it is supposable, by analogy, that the slight transverse move- 

 ment is accompanied by slight bending. 



I was able to obtain a certain amount of evidence thanhis is so. 

 Obsers-ations were made on the protomerite of gliding gregarines, 

 with the resiUt of detecting frequent lateral displacements of this 

 part of the animal. These movements were mostly so slight in 

 extent that it required steady watching to detect them, and they 

 would never be noticed with low or medium powers. They occur 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 17 



at frequent intervals. As stated above, Stenophora is so large tliat 

 it is impossible to keep both the protomerite and the upper surface 

 of the deutomerite in focus at the same time. But gregarines 

 which showed these slight displacements of the protomerite were 

 displapng the typical gliding movement, and such gregarines 

 usually show the transverse movement. ]\Ioreover, by transferring 

 the attention from the upper surface of the deutomerite to the pro- 

 tomerite, it was possible to see that both of these two sorts of move- 

 ment take place at only very slightly separated periods of time. 



It is evident that lateral movements of the protomerite which are 

 at all evident must take place in a horizontal jjlane. A movement 

 in a vertical plane would need to be far more extensive in order to 

 be detected. Vertical displacements, however, can often be seen. 

 That is, gliding gregarines move the protomerite indifferently in 

 any direction. This appears to me a fact of considerable signifi- 

 cance. It indicates that bendings of the protomerite may take 

 place even when it is not possible to see them. Fig. 1,3 is a dia- 

 gram of the anterior part of a gregarine. The solid line represents 

 the longitudinal axis. The dotted line represents the axis of the 

 protomerite when displaced in a horizontal plane. This displace- 

 ment is so slight that it is clear, were it to be effected in a vertical 

 plane, the highest powers and the most rigid attention would wholly 

 fail to detect it. 



It therefore seems reasonable to suppo.se that the transverse move- 

 ment is directly correlated with either displacements of the pro- 

 tomerite or bendings of the bod}' in the i-egion of the septum. 

 AVhen both are extensive the connection is readily established, but 

 when the transverse movement is slight, this can only be done b}' 

 somewhat indirect means, as I have just pointed out. Yet it would 

 be improbable that the transverse movement should at one time be 

 correlated with bendings of the anterior part of the body, and not 

 at other times, when the difference in the two cases is merelv one of 

 degree. 



If, as I hope, my conclusions are warranted by the observational 

 data, the cau.se for gregarine progression is extremely simiale, and 

 while the exact mechanics of the proce.ss are probably be^•ond 

 observation, it may be suggested that it is effected in a manner 

 somewhat as follows : The muscular inijiulse, starting backward 

 from the region of the septum, necessarily causes the contact of the 



2 




18 PKOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



gregarine with the cover-glass to be different in this region from 

 wliat it is in the more posterior part*. Further, since the transverse 

 movement takes place at the same time as the backward movement, 

 that part of the gregarine' s surface where the contact relations are 

 temporarily different moves not only backward, but from side to 

 side as weU. It is not diihcult to see how movements of this sort 

 may produce locomotion, when it be recollected that gregarines 

 are sticky. If a particular part of the surface be in close con- 

 tact with the cover-glass or slide, a muscular movement which car- 

 ries this particular part backward would not be followed by a mere 

 slipping of this part, but by a movement of the gregiirine in the 

 opposite direction. It is easy to see, when observing the upper sur- 

 face of a progressing gregarine, that the contact relations of differ- 

 ent parts are different. The upper surface loses its normal curved 

 contour, and shows considerable irregidarities. Tlie observational 

 conditions are too difficult to permit the changes of contour to bo 

 follow&d, and in consequence wholly direct evidence that progression 

 is brought about in the manner outlined above is not to be had. It 

 seems to me, however, that the explanation of gregarine progression 

 here given is, on d priori grounds, more probable than that given 

 by Schewiakoff, for it is based on the fact that gregarines possess 

 a well-developed muscular system, and it is in line with the general 

 principles of animal locomotion. 



On the other hand, a passive locomotion by means of the extru- 

 sion of gelatinous threads is without jjarallel in the animal kingdom, 

 ^loreover, when the form of certam of the jrolycj'stid gregarines is 

 taken into account, this mode of progression is almost incon- 

 ceivable. Tims, Porospora gigantea, which inhabits the intestine of 

 the lobster, is shaped like a serpent, and is about forty times as long 

 as it is broad. Several genera, Dadylophorw. Schneiderlu and 

 Stichofpora, for example*, have the form of greatly elongated 

 cones, with the posterior end terminating in a point. Specimens 

 of Echinomera hisjyida fr('<|noiitly sliow an oiillino which recalls 

 that of a tadpole. It is difficult to believe that the projection of 

 gelatinous fibres from the extreme posterior ends of aninnils of this 

 shape could |ins]i them forward. 



It may not be ami.ss to call attention to the conditions in otlier 

 Sporozoa. An adult coccidian possesses no muscular system, and 

 lacks the power to move. On the other hand, intra-cellular grcga- 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 19 



riues, when squeezed out of the cell.-s, ghow iiuiscular contortions, 

 and occasionally the tj-pical progression of the free-living sporont. 

 The Hsemosporidia and Myxosporidia, both of which are motile, 

 possess muscle fibres similar to those of polycystid gregarines, 

 whereas the Amoebosporidia (Schizo-gregariues) show no muscle, 

 and are not known to possess the power to move. In general, 

 throughout the Sporozoa, the possession of muscle fibres and the 

 power of moving from place to place go hand in hand, while the 

 forms which are not kno^vn to move lack muscidar elements. It 

 woiUd, therefore, seem somewhat extraordinary if the polycystid 

 gregarines, in which the nuLscidar system is well organized, should 

 have developed such a uni((ue mode of progression as that described 

 by Schewiak(jff. 



Bibliography. 



Calkins, G. N., 1001. Columbia University Biological Scries No 6. 



The Protozoa. New Yoik, The Macniillan Co., 1901 

 Delageet Herouard, 1896. TrailO de Zoologie Concrete, Tome I La 



Cellule et les Protozoaires. Paris, Schleicher Fieres 1896 

 DOFLEIN, P., 1896. Die Protozoen als Parasiten und Kra'nkUeilserreeer 



Jena, G. Fischer, 1896. *" ' 



Fkenzel, J.. 1891. Ueber einige argentinische Gregarinen Bin Bei- 



trag zur Organisation und Physiologie der Gregarinen iiberhaupt. 



.Jena Zeitschr., Bd. 27, pp. 333-336, Taf 8 

 Labbe, a., 1899. Das Tierreich ; 5 Lief., Sporozoa. Berlin, R Fiied- 



landerund Solin, 1899. 

 Laxg,A 1901 Lehrbuch der vcrgl. Anatomie der wirbellosen Thiere. 



i Autl., 2 Lief., Protozoa. Jena. C Fischer 1901 

 Laxkester. E. Ray, 1873. Remarks on the Structure of the Gre-ar- 



mx, and on the Development of G. (Monocyslis) sipunculi Koll 



Quart. Jour. Micr. Sci., N. S., Vol. 13, pp b4'-3.51 Pi oq 

 SCHArpiNN. _Fe., 1900. Untersuehungen iiber den Generat~ionswechsel 



bei Coccidien. Zool. Jahrb., Bd. 13, Abth. f. Anat., pp 197-292 



laf. 13-16. ' 



SCHEWIAKOFF, V., 1894. Ueber die Ursache der fortschreitenden 



?40-3l4""faf 20 ^'l^"''''°- ^'''"'^'- f- ^i««- ^ool., Bd. 58, pp. 

 SiEDLECKi, jr., 1900. Ueber die geschlechtliche Vermehruno- der Mon- 



ocysus asckliic R. Lank. Bull, intern, de I'Acad. des Sci. de 



Cracovie. Compt. Rendus des ,S6inces de I'Ann. 1890 pp 51,5- 



5S(, 1 pi. (Plate appeared in the number for May, 1901.) 



EXPLANATION OF PLATES I AND IL 



Plate I— Fig 1.— The successive positions occupied by a gregarine 

 {Stenophorajuh) progressing in a zigzag. The line to the right 'shows 

 the nature of the path followed. c iigui buows, 



/Q-f^^- ^,•"~'^'^^.^"'^<^'=-''8ive positions taken by a progressing greo-arine 

 (Stenophorajuh) when turning without alterations in the shape Sf the 




20 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



Fig. 3. — The successive positions taken by a gregarine {Stenophora 

 juli) after running head-on into an obstruction. 



Fig. 4. — The same phenomenon as that shown in fig. 3. Here the change 

 from 6 to c is accomplislied in the same way as the change from 6 to e in 

 fig. 3, and tlie change from d to c and from e to/ in the same way as the 

 cliange from the first to the last positions in fig. 2. 



Fig. 5. — A progressing gregarine (Stenophora juli) throwing the 

 anterior end out of tlie line of progression, which is sliown by the ruled 

 line. (This line is incorrectly drawn too far to the left.) 



Pig. 6. — A progressing gregarine (Stenophora juli) throwing the pos- 

 terior end out of the line of progression. 



Pig. 7. — A progressing gregarine {Echinomera hispida) making a 

 turn. Between c and d tlie narrow posterior end swung rapidly around 

 until it lay in line with the rest of the animal. 



Plate II. — Fig. 8.— The trail of gelatinous substance left behind by a 

 progressing gregarine [Echinomera hispida). 



Figs. 9, 10, 11. — The appendages of carmine, etc., which progressing 

 gregarines gather up and drag behind them. 



Fife. 13. — A gregarine (Stenophora juli) behind which are a number 

 of small particles, lying near a mass of host-tissue. Both the gregarine 

 and the small particles are entangled in an invisible, elastic substance 

 (see pp. 12-13 of the text). 



Fig. 13. — Anterior end of a gregarine {Stenophora juli). The solid 

 line represents the longitudinal a.\is ; the broken line the axis of the 

 pro tomerite when displaced in the horizontal plane. 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 21 



A NEW SPECIES OF THE ORTHOPTEEOTJS GENUS PSEUDOPHYLLUS 

 FROM SUMATRA. 



BY JAMES A. G. REHN. 



The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia has been the 

 recipieut of a collectiou of zoological material from the island of 

 Sumatra, presented by Mr. A. C. Harrison, Jr., and Dr. H. M. 

 Hiller. The collection included an alcoholic specimen of a species 

 of the geniLs Pseudophylhis, which on examination proves to be 

 new, and which I take pleasure in dedicating to one of the donors. 



Pseudophyllus harrisoni d. sp. 



Type, female, Coll. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 



Allied to P. neriijolius Serville,^ but differing in the obtuse ante- 

 rior angles of the mesosternum, in the bluntly bituberculate pro- 

 sternum, and the central position of the metasternal foveolce. From 

 P. hrullei Pictet and Saussure it is distinguished by the centrally 

 bent ti-ansverse veins, and by the anteriorly inserted radial vein. 



Size large. Head with the vertex produced, acuminate, supe- 

 riorly sulcate; eyes subovate, exserted; antennte filiform. Pro- 

 notum with anterior margin subarcuate, posterior broadly rounded ; 

 lateral lobes with the lower margin obtusely trian- 

 gular ; transverse sulci two in number, the posterior 

 very deeply incised. Tegmiua elongate, moderately 

 broad ; radial vein inserted decidedly before the 

 middle ; transverse veins toward the apex centrally 

 bent, giving them a subarcuate appearance. Wings 

 exceeding the tegmina in length, apex acuminate. 

 Prosternum bluntly bituberculate; mesosternum with the anterior 

 border sinuate, the anterior angles obtuse and bearing a spine directed 

 downward ; metasternum with the anterior border trimcate, as 

 long as the same portion of the mesosternum, foveolaj placed in the 

 central portion, rather close together. Anterior femora with a few 

 very obscure spines on the lower margins ; tibiae with the upper 



' See Brunner, Monographie der Pseudophylliden, p. 37, for a study of 

 the synonymy of this species. 




22 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [JaU., 



surface deplanate, foramina moderately inflated. Median femora 

 bearing eight spines ou the outer margin, six on the inner, the 

 spines increasing to six ou the outer margin as the distal portion is 

 approached ; tibiae compressed, the inner margin of the upper sur- 

 face with four spines. Posterior femora rather weak, genicular 

 lobes produced and apically rounded, outer lower margin bearing 

 twelve large dentiform spines, inner lower margin with ten or twelve 

 spines; tibiie compressed, quadi-ate, all margins spined, the outer 

 upper margin with several very obscure spines, the inner upper 

 margin with very distinct spines. Ovipositor very robust, lower 

 margin arcuate, upper margm with the basal third straiglit, apical 

 two-thirds slightly curved. Subgenital plate very small, triangular, 

 apex moderately emarginate. 



General color greenLsh ; antenuaj annulate with blackLsh ; ovi- 

 positor with the apical portion black. 



Length of body (excluding ovipositor) 88 mm. 



Length of pronotum, 12.5 " 



Length of tegmiua, 93 " 



Greatest width of tegmuia, 22.5 " 



Length of hind femora, 28.5 " 



Length of ovipositor, 32 " 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 23 



February 4. 



Mr. Uselma C. Smith in the Chair. 

 Fourteen persons present. 



February 11. 

 Mr. Lewis AVooljian in the Chair. 



Eight persons present. 



Papers imder the following titles were presented for publication : 

 " The Frons in Bembidium, with Descriptions of New Species," 

 by F. E. BlaisdeU, M.D. 



" A New Bat of the Genus Glossophaga, " by James A. G. Rehu. 



February' 18. I 

 J. Cheston Morris, M. D. , in the Chair. 

 Fourteen persons present. 



February-^ 25. 



Edwin G. Conklin, Ph.D., Vice-President, in the Chair. 



Papers under the following titles were presented for publication : 

 ' ' Contributions to a Knowledge of the Hymeuoptera of Brazil, 



No. 8. Eumenidaj, continued (Genus Odyuerus)," by William J. 



Fox. 




24 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb.., 



" Some Bermuda Oligoehseta with a Description of a New 

 Species," by J. Percy ]Moore. 



" Structure and Development of the Thyroid Gland in Petro- 

 myzon," by Albert M. Reese. 



" Karyokenesis and Cj-tokenesis in the Maturation, Fertilization 

 and Cleavage of Crepidula and Other Gasteropods, " by Edwin G. 

 Conklin. 



" Certain Aboriginal Remains of the Northwest Florida Coast, 

 Part II," by Qarence B. Moore. 



The following were elected members: J. P. Murlin, Ph.D., 'A. 

 F. K. Krout, Ph.D., James A. Nelson and A. B. Gordon-Davis. 



The following were ordered to be printed : 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 25 



NEW LAND MOLLUSCA FROM JAPAN AND THE BONIN ISLANDS. 

 BY HENRY A. PILSBRT. 



A monographic account of the non-marine molhisks of the Bonin 

 Islands (Ogasawara-jima) is now in preparation, in which all of the 

 species will be illustrated. As Mr. Nakada is still collecting in 

 the islands for JVIr. Hirase, and will probably spend a month or two 

 more there, it has been thought desirable to publish brief notices of 

 his discoveries, reserving the consideration of the extrinsic relations 

 of the Ogasawaran fauna for the article to follow. 



Besides the material sent by Mr. Hirase, I am indebted to Mr. S. 

 Yoshiwara, of the College of Science, Imperial University, at 

 Tokyo, for valuable specimens and data which will be fully utilized 

 in the projected monograph. One of the most interesting of Mr. 

 Yoshiwara' s discoveries is the true locality of Mandarina nischen- 

 bergeriana (Pils. ), which he found on the islet Minami, off tlie 

 southern end of Chichijima. 



HELICINA Lam. 



This genus is represented in tlie Bonin Islands by several species 

 and varieties, all more or less related, and doubtless claiming a 

 common ancestor, though several of them are conspicuously diverse. 

 Those now known from Hahajima may be determined by the fol- 

 lowing key : 



a. — Spire elevated, conic; lip simple, blunt, unexpanded. Whorls 



4^. Alt. 4, ^liam. 5.2 mm H. capsula n. sp. 



a}, — Spire con s'ex or merely somewhat conoidal ; base convex; lip 

 more or less expanded or thickened. 

 h. — Periphery conspicuously cariuate; lip expanded and 

 thickened, 

 e. — Whorls 4; strongly striate spirally above. Alt. 3.2 

 or 3.3, diam. 5 mm., . H. ogasawarana n. sp. 

 c*. — ISIuch depressed and very acutely cariuate; pale 

 yellowish-corneous; whorls Ah. Alt. 2.7 to 3, 

 diam. 5.8 to 6 mm., . . . H. hirasein. sp. 

 6\ — Periphery more or less angular, or rounded though com- 

 pressed. 




26 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



c. — Surface delicately striate spirally. Alt. 3.5, diam. 

 5.-3 to 5.8 mm., . . . H. yoshiwarana u. sp. 

 c'. — Upper surface strongly striate spirally, 



H. yoshhvarana var. arata u. v. 



c". — Smaller, delicately striate. Alt. 2.2, diam. 4.5 mm., 



S. yoshiwarana var. miei'otheca n. v. 



Ouly one form is yet kuowu from Chichijima, H. ogasawarana 



var. dkcrepans. It differs from the typical form in having the 



spiral strise obsolete on the last whorl. 



Alyoaeus biexoisus u.sp. 



Shell Kiniihu- in general form, size and sculpture to A. rbinhardti 

 Pils. , but differing in the aperture. The lip is thickened and built 

 forward. The jiarietal margin of the lip is continuoiL*, raised in a 

 blunt, somewhat triangidar process. The columellar margin is 

 excised in a broad curve, and there is a more or less pronounced 

 notcli at tlie junction of the basal and outer margins. The neck is 

 only slightly constricted, and is striate. Whorls 3^. Diam. 

 3J mm. 



Suinuira, Awa. Types No. 82,660 Coll. A. N. S. P., from 

 No. 8316 of Mr. Hirase's collection. 



This is one of the most differentiated of the Japanese species of 

 AlyccBus. 



Blanfordia japonioa var. simplex nov. 



The spcciiucus of Blanfordia from Nippon which I have seen 

 differ from B. japonica of Sado Island, as defined by A. Adams, 

 in having the lip only a mere trifle expanded, hardly perceptibly 

 so, and not doubled, a.s it is said to be in B. jujwnica. Tlie shell 

 consists of 5 whorls, the first one more or less worn, and it is cov- 

 ered with a yellowish-olivaceous cuticle. It is shorter and broader 

 than B. heiisoiii of Ye.sso. 



Length 6, diam. 4 mm. 



Nishigo, Uzen. Types No. 78,836 Coll. A. N. S. P., from No. 

 406 of Mr. Hirase's collection. Similar .specimens have been .«ent 

 from Kajima, Satsuma, and one immature shell before. me from 

 Ibuki, Omi (No. 842 of ^h: Hirase's collection), may prove to be 

 the same variety. 



The species of Blanfordia now known are as follows : 



B. bensoni (A. Adams). 



Tomichia bensoni A. Ad., Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist, (3), VIII, p 

 308 (October, 1861 ). 




.1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 27 



Blanfordia bensoni A. Ad., Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist. (3), XII, p. 



424, PI. 7, fig. 11. 

 Blanfordia beiisoni A. Ad., Mollendorff, Nachr'bl. d. D. Malak. 



Ges., 1897, p. 32 (description of specimens from Halvodate). 

 Poraatiopsia hirasei Pils., Nautilus, May, 1900, p. 12. 



Southern Yesso, in the Province Ojima, at Matsumai (A. Ad. ), 



Kayabe (Y. Hira.?e), and Hakodate (B. Schmacker). 



B. japonica (A. Adams). 



Tomichia japonica A. Ad., Ann. and Mag. (3), VIII, p. 308 (Octo- 



Ijer. 1861). 

 Blanfordia japonica A. Ad., Ann. and Mag. (3), XII, p. 424, PI. 7, 



fig. 12. 



Sado Island (A. Ad.). 



B. japonica var. simplex Pils. See above. 



Blanfordia japonica Mlldfi'., Naclir'bl. d. D. Malalv. Ges., 1900, p. 

 153. 



Nishigo, Uzen, Nippon; Kajima, Bat.suma, Kiu;ihiu (Y. Hirase). 



I have given the reference.? in full because several authors, nota- 

 bly von Mollendorff and Kobelt, have expressed ignorance of the 

 existence of descriptions of A. Adams' species ; the former author, 

 with characteristic temerity, stating that one of them had never 

 been described. 



Cyolophorus kikaienais n. sp. 



Shell depressed-turbiuate, moderately solid but not thick, openly 

 umbilicate ; pale yellowish, encircled by many dark red-bro\vu 

 dotted or spotted lines and bands, those above usually more or less 

 c(jufluent, and usually marked with radiating zigzag light streaks ; 

 the earlier whorls purplish-brown ; sculptured with minute, thread- 

 like strise, coarser and more separated on the early whorls. Whorls 

 4J, very convex, the last rounded or sometimes indistinctly angtilar 

 in front, convex below. Aperture circular, oblique, bluish inside, 

 the peristome built forward beyond a very slight expansion, in fully 

 mature individuals ; in contact with the preceding whorl for a very 

 short distance only. 



Alt. 11^, diam. 15 mm. 



Alt. 12, diam. 16 mm. 



Alt. 12i^, diam. 17 mm. 



Kikai-ga-shima, Osumi. Types No. 81,940 Coll. A. N. S. P., 

 from No. 547 of IMr. Hirase" s collection. 



I formerly thought this a small variety of C. turgidus Pfr. , but 

 further study of larger series shows it to be distinct. It is a smaller, 




28 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF Fell-, . 



less elevated shell, with decidedly larger umbilicus, the whorls 

 being more loosely coiled. Specimens from the fossil-bed on the 

 same island (Hira-se's 'No. 6846) are a little larger, the largest 

 measuring alt. 15, diam. 20 mm. They show the same open 

 umbilicus and rather lax coil. 



C. turgidus Pfr., from the same deposit, is decidedly larger than 

 the typical form, diani. 27-28 mm. 



Diplommatlna kiiensis n. sp. 



Shell cyliudric, conic above, the tapering portion less than lialf 

 the length of the sliell ; dull red ; sculptured with strong but narrow 

 thread-like rib-strise, slightly coarser on the cone than on the last 

 two whorls. Whorls fii, convex, the last narrower, strongly ascend- 

 ing in front. Aperture circular, the lip narrowly expanded, re- 

 inforced by a narrow rib or crest close behind it ; continuous across 

 the parietal wall. Columellar denticle strong. Palatal fold very 

 long. Length 3.3, diam. nearly 2 mm. 



Nachi, Kii. Types No. 82,656, Coll. A. N. S. P., from Xo. 

 837a of ^Ir. Hirase's collection ; also Xo. 8376, from the same 

 locality. 



Some specimens are superficially eroded, and whitish ash-colored. 

 The palatal fold is uniLsually long. It is a smaller species than D. 

 tenuiplica, larger than nipponensis or cassa. 



Diplommatina kobelti var. ampla nov. 



Shell with the spire long and regularly tapering to an obtuse 

 apex. Whorls 8 to 8^, convex, the last narrower and ascending 

 as usual ; pale reddi-sh or corneous ; evenly sculptured with delicate 

 thread-like rib-striie, subob.solete on the last half of the last whorl. 

 Aperture subcircidar, with straightened, sinuous columellar margin. 

 Columellar tooth strong. Palatal fold curved, covered by the 

 expanded parietal calliu*. 



Length 4, diam. 2 mm. 



Goto, Uzen. Types No. 82,664, Coll. A. X. S. I'-., from Xo. 

 812 of Jlr. Hirase's collection. It is larger than D. kobelti, with 

 more whorls. 

 Diplommatira padica n. sp. 



Shfll olindric below, tajjering in a long, slender .spire above, the 

 apex small, somewhat obtuse ; didl red, the spire and apex bliL<h- 

 ing deep rose. Sculpture of thread-like riblets, conspicuous and 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 29 



very widely .spaced ou the spire, rapidly becoming finer at the 

 begluuini); of the peuultiniate whorl, which is very finely and closely 

 striate ; last whorl contracted, similarly scidjjtured hut with the striae 

 partially effaced, ascending as usual. Aperture somewhat oblique, 

 subcircular, the peristome expanded and reflexed, but not doubled 

 and with no rib behind it. The columellar tooth is rather small, 

 and deeply placed. No palatal fold is visible through the shell. 

 Length 3, dinm. 1.5 mm. 



Nachi, Kii. Types No. 82,652, Coll. A. N. S. P., from No. 

 836a of Mr. Hirase's collection. 



A very distinct species, like D. Jcobelti in the long spire, but in 

 D 2}udica the cone is more slender above. The dLsparity in sculp- 

 ture bet>veen the whorls of the cone and the last two is unusually 

 marked. The color of fresh, unworn shells is deeper than in the 

 other species of Nippon known to me. 



Mandarina exoptata var, obtusa nov. 



More depressed than the typical form, and merely angular at the 

 periphery ; whorls 4J. 



Alt. 13, diam. 22 J mm. 



Hahajima, No. 845 of Jlr. Hirase's coUectiou. 



Mandarina mandarina var hahajimana nov. 



Shell small, thinner tlian typical mandarina, pale yellowish; 

 uniform or with a pale reddish Iiaud above, another below the 

 periphery. Whorls -ih, the last slightly angular in front, soon 

 becoming rounded at the periphery. Surface very densely engraved 

 with clear-cut, minutely crimped spiral strire, obsolete immediately 

 around the axis. 



Alt. 13J, diam. IS^ mm. 



Sekimon-zan, Hahajima (Mr. S. Yoshiwara) ; Hahajima (Mr. 

 Y. Hirase). 



Genus HIRASEA Pilsbry. 



This group has been modified to fill many places in the Ogasa- 

 waran snail fauna. Six species have already been found on Haha- 

 jima alone, and one on Chichijima. Those known from the former 

 Island mav be determined bv the followiiia; kev: 




30 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



I. — Spire more or less convex or low-conic; periphery aus'ular or 



carinate. 



a. — Basal lip produced forward beyond the outer and upper 



margins; periphery angular above; whorls of, closely 



coiled; upper surface dull, striate, base glossy. 



h. — Spire but slightly convex. Alt. 2.1, diam. 4.3 mm., 



H. sinuosa. 

 b\ — Spire low-conic; base very convex. Alt. 2, diam. 



3.1 mm if. eutheca. 



a\ — Aperture normally oblique, the outer and upper margins 

 projecting forward of the l)asal. 

 b. — Base translucent, thin, polished; whorls 5^; jjeri- 

 phery merely angidar. ^Ut. 2, diam. 4.(;) mm., 



M. hypolia. 

 b\ — Base opaque, finely ribbed, like the upjwr surface; 

 periphery acutely carinate. 

 c. — Biconvex; whorls 4^ to 4f. Alt. 2.2, diam. 



4 mm., H. nemotica. 



c'. — Much depressed, the keel very acute; whorls 4. 



Alt. 1.6, diam. 4 mm., . . H. acidkslma. 



II. — Spire concave, the earlier whorls sunken; peri|)liery rounded. 



a. — Disk-shaped; rich brown, and densely, minutely rib-striate 



above and at the periphery, becoming polished and 



somewhat translucent beneath, whitish near the axis. 



Whorls iS, the last roinuled at the periphery ; aperture 



lunate, the lip simple and acute in the specimens seen, 



which are probably not adult. Alt. 1.7, diam. 4 nun., 



H. hiconcava. 



Another genus or subgenus, ai)parently allied to Hiraseu, is re- 

 presented by one sjwcies sent from Hahajima, and by Helix oper- 

 culina of (Jould, collected on Peel Island [Chicliijima] by the 

 North Pacific Exploring Expedition, but imt yet olitaiiud liy Mr. 

 Hirase. This group may be defined as follows : 



FAHETESTA siihgcn. nov. 



Shell disk-shaped, excessively depres.^ed and acutely carinate, 

 concave below the keel, imperforate, thin, minutely striate. Aper- 

 ture oblique, extremely narrow, the basal 11]) tliickened within. 

 Ty|>e H. mirabilU. 



Two species are uow known. Both are pale brown with o whorls. 

 They differ thus : 



a. — Diameter three times the altitude, 2.") x ?.•") nun. Chichijinia, 



//. opercidiiia < ild. 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 31 



a'. — Diameter five times the altitude, 1.5 x 7 mm. Hahajima, 



H. vvirabilis n. sp. 



The last species is so flat it looks as though trodden upon. 



Kaliella ogasawarana n. sp. 



Shell large for the genus, subperforate, conic, pale yellowish- 

 corneous, subtransparent, glossy, smooth except for slight growth- 

 lines. Spire almo.st straightly conic, the apex obtuse. Whorls 7|, 

 somewhat convex, the last strongly angular at the periphery, mod- 

 erately convex below. Aperture slightly curved, in crescent form, 

 truncate at the ends; lip thin and acute, the columella concave, 

 with narrowly reflexed margin. Alt. 5, diam. .5 mm. Hahajima, 

 Ogasawara (Y. Hirase, No. 846). 



Nesopupa dedecora ". sp. 



Exceedingly small, obesely oval, dark red-brown, faintly striate. 

 Whorls 4f, convex, the last swelling m a very conspicuous crest 

 some distance behind the aperture, and grooved at the position of 

 the u])per palatal fold. Aperture squarish, well rounded below, the 

 lip expanded, brown. Parietal lamella long and strong; angular 

 lamella well developed, not united with the parietal. C'i)lumellar 

 lamella deeply placed, small. Basal fold small, close to the colum- 

 ella. Lower palatal fold very small and deeply situated. Upper 

 palatal large and prominent All the teeth are whitish. 



Length about 1.6, diam. 1 mm. 



Hahajima, Ogasawara (No. 8.55 of Mr. Hirase' s collection). 



Eulota senokenbergiana var. awaensis "ov. 



Very large, dark In-own with wide, ill-defined darker brown, and 

 lighter dusky yellowish streaks, a narrow blackish supra-peripheral 

 band bordered with yellow on both sides, and the interior of the 

 umbilicus blackish. It wants the bright yellow variegation of typi- 

 cal senckenbergiana. Surface conspicuously malleate. 



Alt. 30, diam. 55 mm. 



Alt. -3.3, diam. 5.31 mm. 



Suimura, Awa. ^Types No. 82,608 Coll. A. N. S. P., from 

 No. 828 of Mr. Hirase' s collection. 



The species has not hitherto been reported from Shikoku Island. 




32 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb , 



£ulota vulgivaga var. lanx nov. 



Sheirniore depressed tlian vulgivaga, the base less convex. Last 

 whorl^deflexed in front. Aperture more oblique. Fringe at the 

 periphery and sometimes along tlie suture well developed. 



Alt. 9, diam. 22 mm. 



Suimura, Awa, Shikoku Island (Mr. Hirase, No. 825). 



AHargc form of vulgivaga occurs at Mt. Ibuki, Omi, haviug 

 almost 7 whorls, a dome-like spire, and comparatively smooth cuti- 

 cle ; but smaller specimens seem to occur with the large ones, so 

 that with the material now in hand 1 do not see that a distinct local 

 race is indicated. 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



33 



CONTBIBUTIOKS TO THE LIFE-HISTORY OF PLANTS, NO. XVI. 

 by thomas meehan.' 



The Bartram Oak, in Connection with Variation and 

 Hybridism. 



My recent discovery that the mature wood of trees may so chauge 

 their original lines as to alter the whole form of the skeleton, and 

 that these changes in form are characteristic of the species, may 

 enable us to settle some disputed questions. In the case, somewhat 

 famous, of the Bartram oak, Quercus heierophjlla Mx., we may 

 now say with absolute certainty that it is but a form of the pin oak, 

 Quercus palustris. The angular divergence of the mature branches 

 is the same in botli ; while other resemblances to the latter species 

 are well known. Much of the confusion in regard to this matter has 

 arisen from the tree, still iu the Bartram gardens, that for many 

 years past has been pointed out to bolanisls as a seedlmg from the 

 orio-iual tree lona' since destroved. Specimens from this tree are 

 widely diffused through herbariums. It is but a somewhat lobed- 

 leaved form of the willow oak, Qaercus Phellos, a condition not 

 iufrequeut among trees of this species, and of which form there are 

 numerous specimens in the herbarium of the Academy of Natural 

 Sciences of Thiladelphia. If any one had thought to compare 

 these specimens with the phite in Michaux's " Sylva," the error 

 would have beeu noted. Dr. Engelmanu was familiar with 

 jMichaux's plant only tlirougli tliese misleading Bartram specimens, 

 and hence described his (^iiercm paluslns-imbriearia, which proves 

 to be identical with ]Michaux's Q. heterophylla. Dr. Engelmann 

 was led to write positively in regard to tlie liybridity in a great 

 degree from his belief iu the sterility of hybrids — the St. Louis 

 tree producing only a single acorn, so far as any one knew, during 



'The mainiscript of this article was found among the late Mr. Mee- 

 han's papers after his death and sent to the Academy for publication by 

 his son, Mr. S. Mendelson Meehan. It possesses a special interest as 

 being the last contribution from one who for nearly forty years enriched 

 the Proceedings with the results of his acute and devoted study of 

 nature. Mr. Meehan's first paper in the Proceedings of the Academy 

 was published in 1863.— Editor. 




34 rROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [Feb., 



its existence. From this acoru grew the tree now on my grounds. 

 It is remarkably fertile, wholly destroying the " sterile " idea, even 

 though it were a hybrid, and with the leaves and skeleton eharactere 

 of Q. 2)alustri<i, as already noted. Seedlings from Delaware trees, 

 the acorns sent by Mr. Commons, a well-known local botanist, all 

 retain the character of occasional entire leaves, but in other 

 respects coincide with Q. palustris. While the absence of deep 

 lobing struck Michaux, it is .••emarkable that he did not note the 

 opposite in other cases. 



It is not unusual to note individual trees of Quereiis paliistri.i 

 with the leaves so deeply incised that there is left little of leaf- 

 blade but the strong veins and midribs. Indeed, this variation in 

 the lobing of leaves may be noted in all .species of oak. There is 

 no need to call in hybridism to account for this varying condition. 

 We find in many plants a tendency to have lobed leaves in an early 

 stage and wholly entire at a later. The evergreen ivy, Hedera 

 Helix, is a familiar example. We now know that tlie.*e changes 

 result from varying degrees of growth-energy, and not from any 

 external agency in which hybridism may be included. In the 

 light of modern knowledge, explanations of the past seem remark- 

 able. Referring to Quereus heterophylla Michaux says: " Every 

 l)(>tanist who has visited different regions of the earth mu.<t have 

 renuirked certain species of vegetables which are .-io little tnulti|)lied 

 that they .seem likely at no distant period to disappear from the 

 earth. To this class belongs the Bartram oak." When we remem- 

 l)er that this was .<aid of a young tree, described as " .30 feet higii 

 and 8 inches in diameter," growing in the muhi of numeroas pin 

 oak trees of great age, that formed almost the chief oak character 

 of that region, and from wliicli tliis young tree must have had its 

 origin, one can only surmise that for once ^licjiau.x had lost his 

 usual high judicial ability. 



The main jwint of tiiis note is to illustrate by tlie Bartram oak 

 the value, in settling imjwrtant questions in long dispute, of the 

 discovery that old wood may change its direction so a,< to give a 

 specific character to the main branches or skeleton of the tree, and 

 incidentally to show that we gain a great point in biology when we 

 note how striking variations may occur by varying degree.* of vital 

 energy, and without calling in the aid of survival, hybridism or t)f 

 any external agency. 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



35 



Observations on the Flowering of Lobelia cardinalis 

 AND Lobelia syphilitica. 



In my garden during the past year, 1900, I had some fifty plants 

 each (if Lobelia syphilitica and Lobelia cardinalis in rows side by 

 side. They were so near each other that some of the flower stems 

 of the latter fell over and seemed to be blooming among the plants 

 of the former. It surprised me one day to note that while numer- 

 oas winged insects visited the blue-flowered species, none cared for 

 the scarlet ones. This excited an interest that led to a continuous 

 observation through the whole flowermg period. At no time did I 

 see an insect visitor on the cardinal flower, while every day the 

 blue-flowered species had abimdaut attention. On one occasion I 

 found a humming-bird, Troehilm colubris, at work on the cardinal 

 flower, and the zest with which numerous flowers were examined by 

 the bird attested to the presence of nectar, a fact which my own 

 test subsequently verified. The bird is not numerous on my ground, 

 and witli an abundance of flowers of various kinds over many acres 

 of ground, it may be inferred that it was not a frequent visitor to 

 the cardinal flower. I observed it only on this occasion. It wholly 

 neglected the blue-flowered species, that seemed so attractive 

 to the insects. Toward the end of the season the foreman in 

 charge, Mr. Hemming, captured specimens of all that were visitors 

 to Lobelia syphilitica during one day. These were identified by 

 Mr. William J. Fox as follows: Xylocopa virginica, Bombm penn- 

 sylvanieus, Bombus fervidus, Bombus americanorum var. pallidiis, 

 Apis mellifera, and a sand wasp, Scolia dubia. It Ls worthy of 

 note that the honey-bee did not visit the flowers tUl late in the 

 season. About fifty yards away from these plants was a large bed 

 of Sedum spectabile, which at the earlier stage of these ob.servations 

 were crowded by this well-known honey gatherer. It may be 

 inferred that as long as they lasted they collected all needed from 

 these flowers. Honey-bees at any rate are not numerous in this 

 vicinity. 



At the end of the season no difference could be observed m the 

 fertility of the two species. Every capsule seemed abundantly seed- 

 bearing. The presence or absence of insect visitoi's had no effect. 

 Dissecting the flo\\ers from time to time, and in various stages 

 before and after authesis, some original and interesting phenomena 




36 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



were observed. At the period when the antliers have reached their 

 full development a rest is taken, apparently till the next day. Then 

 the style elongates until it seems to be held fast by the united anther 

 cap. After a short rest it is atraiu in motion, the anther-cells burst, 

 and the pollen Ls ejected so forcibly through the crown as to some- 

 times cover the scarlet petals with powder. In the case of the blue- 

 flowered species, bees occasionally get a portion of the jwlleu 

 shower. 



Aside from the interesting fact in regard to the forcible ejection 

 of the pollen, and the free fertility under self-fertilization — ^for, not- 

 withstanding the freedom of insect visitors, Lobelia syphilitica is 

 absolutely self-fertilized — note may be taken of differing obsei-va- 

 tious. Of Lobelia fulgens, which is essentially identical with 

 Lobelia cardinalis, ]\Ir. Darwin says, in his " Cross and Self- 

 fertilization in the Vegetable Kingdom " : " This plant is never 

 visited in my garden by bees, and is quite sterile ; but in a nursery 

 garden at a few miles' distance I saw lumible-bees visiting the 

 flowers, and they produced some capsules." Mr. Darwin once 

 stated that one might as well use organic dust as to endeavor to get 

 seeds of Linum perenne by the aid of its own pollen. I found 

 Linum perenne of our Rocky Mountains abundantly fertile with 

 own-pollen, and said so in one of my papere. Mr. Darwin took 

 this to be an attempt to discredit liis observation, and naturally felt 

 aggrieved. i\Iy thought is rather that i)lants and insects behave 

 differently under different conditions, and that failure or facture 

 in perfecting seeds should often be referred to ]ihases of nutrition 

 aside from the action of insects. 



The facts here recorded afford a valuable lesson on this matter. 

 Lobelia syphilitica, with its shorter and more open corolla, could be 

 more easily rifled of its nectar, and as the flowers were in great 

 abundance, and fresh flowers opened daily, the insects worked in 

 the easiest lines. In the case of the Sedum it will also be noted that 

 the bees continued their easier work on this, before seeking the more 

 difficult Lobelia. The failure of Mr. Darwin's Lobelia to produce, 

 while mine were fertile, is obviously due to nutritive conditions. He 

 was nii.staken in referring the failure to the absence of insects, but 

 no one would for a moment discredit his observation. 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 37 



A NEW BAT OF THE GENUS GLOSSOPHAGA. 

 BY JAMES A. G. KEHN. 



Along with several other bats recently submitted to me for exam- 

 ination by Dr. J. Percy Moore, of the University of Pennsylvania, 

 were three specimens of the genus Glossophaga. On comparison 

 with a series of specimens from northern South America, loaned 

 from the collection of the United States National iSIuseum through 

 the kindness of ]Mr. Gerrit S. ^Miller, Jr., of that institution, it 

 was found that they represent a northern form of G. sorieina 

 PaUas,' and do not appear to closely resemble any of the other 

 species of the genus. From longirostris and elongata Miller it is 

 well separated ; from the former it is immediately differentiated by 

 the broader posterior portion of the bony palate, from the latter 

 by the much shorter skidl. On examination of the names usually 

 placed as synonyms of G. sorieina I find that none are available 

 for this form. 



Glossophaga sorieina antillarum n. subsp. 



Tj/pe.—lso. 6,619 Collection Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. Port 

 Antonio, Jamaica, December 30, 1890. Female. Collected and 

 presented by Dr. J. Percy iloore. 



Disbibution. — Jamaica and Bahamas. The collection of the 

 Academy contains a skull from the latter locality. 



General characters. — Larger than typical G. sorieina, the skull 

 much more elongate, the rostrum narrower, and second upper molar 

 larger. 



Size. — Large, the forearm considerably greater than in true 

 sorieina. The ear and foot show an increase in size, while the hind 

 tibia is practically the same length. 



' As Pallas gave no locality for liis Vespertilio soricinus (Misc. Zool., 

 p. 48), the typical form must be restricted by olher means. In his figure 

 (tab. Y) the species is represented with a comparatively short rostrum, 

 and as this is characteristic of the form from northern South America 

 (and possibly others from that continent), I have restricted the name 

 sorieina to the form occurrinii in that region. 




38 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF '[Feb., 



Color. — As far as can be judged from the alcholic Jamaicau 

 specimens, the form appears to have a more reddish appearance, 

 the fur being walnut-lirown, while the available alcoholic specimens 

 and one skin of G. sorieina are between a clove-brown and sepia. 

 This appears to apply also to the membranes. 



Skull. — Large, comparatively slender, the rostrum narrower tlian 

 in G. sorieina. Posterior bony extension of the palate rather 

 broad. 



Teeth. — Essentially as in G. sorieina, but the second upper molar 

 has the internal lobe longer, thus making the tooth heavier and 

 more quadrate. 



Remarks. — This northern form ot G. sorieina is very distinctly 

 differentiated from typical sorieina as restricted. The greater general 

 size and more elongate skull, with the slender rostrum, immediately 

 separate it. With G. long irostri^ and elowjata, as shown above, no 

 comparison is necessary. 



Speeimens examined. — Three alcoholic specimens from Port 

 Antonio, Jamaica (type and cotypes). .Skull from Bahamas. 



Comparative measurements. 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 39 



A NEW GENUS AND THREE NEW SPECIES OF CHILOPODS. 

 BY RALPH V. C'HAMBERLIN. 



Heretofore uo Scolopendridse of the sub-family Cryptopiuae have 

 been reported from the Pacific States, and iu consequence the 

 author's present annoimcement of the finding of two new species 

 belonging to this group in California will be of interest to myriapo- 

 dists. Of these two species one belongs to the genus Theatops, 

 making the third known from the United States, while the other 

 represents a new genus, iu some respects intermediate between 

 Cryjdojis and Theatops. But two mature specimens of the latter 

 species being in the collection, uo detailed examination of the 

 mouth parts has been possible, and accordingly a complete descrip- 

 tion of the genus is not now presented. Its general relationships 

 will be understood from the diagnosis assigned in the analysis. 



The new Lithohius here described belongs to that group in which 

 the coxal pores are arranged in several series (^Both.opolys) . Its 

 nearest relative, as seen from the key to the American species, is 

 Lithobius xanti (Wood), which is found in California and Oregon, 

 itself coming from the Wahsatch ^Mountains, Utah. 



Analysis of the Genera of Cryptopinw. 



a^. — Last dorsal plate not enlarged; aual legs but little cra.ssate. 

 6,. — Ocelli j)reseut, single, . . . Eremops BoUman. 1. 

 62. — Ocelli absent or indistinct. 



Ci. — Fii-st and second tarsal joints of anal legs toothed 

 below ; claw of anal legs unarmed ; last pleurse 

 free, without processes; aual and genital segment 

 very short, without a dorsal scutum, 



Cryptops Leach. 2. 

 Cj. — First and second tarsal joints of anal legs unarmed 

 below ; claw of anal legs armed with two spines ; 

 last pleurse not exposed laterally, with strong pro- 

 cesses posteriorly ; anal and genital segment not 

 shortened, dorsal scutum present, 



Anethops gen. nov. 3. 



aj. — Last dorsal plate twice as long as the preceding; anal legs 



strongly crassate, Theatops Newport. 4. 




40 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



Anethops occidentalis gen. et spec. nov. 



Browu or fulvous browu, the feet paler; head puuctate "with 

 moderately small pimctse, suboval, the posterior margin rounded; 

 basal plate exposed ; dorsal scuta lightly punctate, impressed with 

 two deep marginal sulci, and upon the middle portion with six 

 sulci, the two outermost and the two innermost indistinct, the inter- 

 mediate ones deep; ventral scuta densely minutely pimctate, each 

 plate, excepting the three anterior and the three posterior, with a 

 cruciform impression, the longitudinal sulcas wide and much deeper. 

 Antenn£e rather long, swollen at base, attenuated dbtally ; articles 

 17, mostly rather short; densely clothed with short stiff bristles which, 

 become very short on the distal joints. Prosternal margin without 

 teeth or spines, glabroas; coxal tooth small, black, acute. Legs 

 sparsely aculeate dLstally ; the first tarsal joiut, excepting in the last 

 pair, armed beneath witli one spine and above with two, the second 

 tarsal joint armed beneath with a spine, claws of all legs armed at 

 ba.=e with two spines, tibiaj nt)t armed. Anal legs .scarcely swollen, 

 not shortened, the third and the fourth joints not armed with teeth 

 or spines. Last ventral plate wide, covering the pleurse laterally, 

 scarcely converging caudad, the jiosterior border widely sinuate ; 

 last pleurse nan-ow, with conspicuous processes posteriorly, each 

 ending in a stout, acute black point. 



Length .33.5 mm., wiilth 3 nun.; length of anteunfe not quite 

 7 mm. 



Habitat. — San Gabriel Canyon, Los Angeles county, Cal. 



The typo specimens were collected ^fay 2.">, lltOl, by ]\Ir. Cliarles 

 E. Hutchinson. 



Etymology. — Genus: Greek «, privative, ^flo?, character, and 

 (i"l', eye. 



Key to American Species of Tlieatops. 



a,. — Femora of anal legs unarmed; none of the tibial or tar.^^al 

 joints armed above ; all tar-^al joints armed beneatii except 

 tlic last two; proce.<.«e.< of hi.st pleurae unarmed with spines, 



poxticus (Say). 1. 



Oj. — Femora of anal legs armed with one or two spines at the supe- 

 rior interior angle ; til)i:c, exce])t the last three, armed above ; 

 tai-sal joints, except in last two pairs, armed above and be- 

 neath (fii-st tai-sal joint of first legs not armed beneath) ; 

 processes of last ])leur:e unarmed with spines, 



fpinicaudus (Wood). 2. 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 41 



«3- — Femora and tibije of anal legs armed with a single spine at the 

 inferior angle ; tibia;, except of anal legs, unarmed ; first 

 tarsal joint, except in last pairs, armed above and below with 

 one spine, second joint armed beneath; processes of last 

 pleuras with a stout spine, . . californiensis, sp. nov. 3. 



1. Theatops posticus (Say). 



Cryptops posttca Say (1831). 

 Theatops postica Newport (1841). 

 Opisthemega posttca Wood (1862). 

 Opisthemega crassipes Meinert (188G). 

 Theatops crassipes Bollman (1888). 



Habitat. — Eastern United States, south of ^'irgiaia, Indiana 

 and IllinoLs. 



2. Theatops spinioaudus (Wood). 



Opisthemega spinicauda Wood (1863). 

 Theatops spinicaudus Bollman (1888). 



Habitat. — Acapidco, Mex., and southwestern United States, 

 extending northeast through Tennessee to Pennsylvania. 



3. Theatops californiensis spec. nov. 



Brown, feet and antennae yello^vish ; head spareely punctate, sub- 

 oval, posteriorly truncate ; dorsal scuta .sublightly, sparsely punc- 

 tate, deeply bisulcate, first plate triaugidarly impressed anteriorly ; 

 ventral plates sparsely lightly punctate. Articles of the antennaj 

 17, terminal articles densely sliortly hirsute, median and basal joints 

 sparsely shortly hirsute. Prosternal teeth 3-3, large, short ; coxal 

 tooth large, stout, obtuse. None of the tibia; armed either beneath 

 or above; first joint of tarsus, except in ultimate and penidt pairs, 

 armed below and above with one spine, the second tarsal joint 

 armed beneath. Anal legs much cra.ssate, contiguous, moderatelv 

 short, claw long, strong, superior internal margin carinate; femur 

 armed on the inferior interior margin with a single, rather stout 

 tooth; tibia armed similarly to fenuir. Last ventral plate lono-, 

 wide, the sides scarcely sinuate, strongly converging posteriorly, the 

 posterior angles rounded, posterior border gently sinuate ; last pleuraa 

 wide, subsmooth, posteriorly widely sinuate, processes armed with a 

 stout spine or tootli. 



Length 41-4() mm. ; width 4 mm. ; length of anal legs 7-8 mm. 



Habitat. — Near Quincy, Cal. 



Found at a mining claim, altitude 3,500 feet, by Mr. Edward 

 Garner. 




42 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [Feb , 



Key to American Species of Lithobim, having the Coxal Pores in 

 several series {Bothropolys). 



a,. — Posterior angles of none of the dorsal plates produced. 



6j. — Prosternal teeth 9-9; spines of first legs 2, 3, 1, of anal 

 1, 3, 2, 1; length 25-29 mm. bipunctatus (Wood). 1. 

 6j. — Prosternal teeth 6-6; .spines of fii-st legs 2, 8, 2, of aual 

 1, 4, 3, 1-1, 4, 3, 2; length 18 mm., 



monticola Stuxberg. 2. 



Oi. — Posterior angles of tlie 9th, lltli and 13th dorsal plates 



produced. 



6..— Spines of first legs 2, 2, 1-2, 3, 1, of pemdt 1, 3, 3, 2; 



middle lobe of claw of genital forceps mucli longest, 



pointed ; inner lobe much reduced ; basal spines 3-3 ; 



antennae long, xanti (Wood). 3. 



6j. — Spines of the first legs 2, 3, 2, of tlie pemdt 1, 8, 3, 1 ; 

 middle lobe of claw of genital forceps not much longest, 

 short and blunt, inner lobe subequal to outer, not 

 reduced ; Imsal spines 2-2, anteunsD short, 



permimdus sp. nov. 4. 

 ttj. —Posterior angles of fith, 7th, 9th, 11th and 13th dorsixl plates 

 produced ; prosternal teeth 7-7 to 9-9 ; spines of first 

 legs 2, 3, 1-2, 3, 2, of anal 1, 3, 2, 1-1, 3, 3, 2, 



muUidentatus Newport. 5. 



1. Lithobius bipunotatns (Wood). 



Bothropolys bipunciattis Wood (1863). 

 Lithobius bipunctatus Stuxberg (1877). 



Habitat. — " West of Rocky IMoimtaius" (Wood); Salt Lake, 



Utah, and Uintali counties, Utah (author). 



2. Lithobius monticola StuxberR. 



Lithobius monticola Stu.xberg (1875). 

 Habitat. — Sierra Nevada Mountains (seq. Stuxberg). 



3. Lithobius zanti (Wood). 



Bothropolys xanti AYood (1863). 

 lAthobius rugonun Jleiiiert. 

 fjilhobius xanti Stuxberg (1877). 



Habitat. — California and Oregon (Wooil, liollinau,- author). 



4. Lithobius permundus spec. nov. 



Lithobius xanti Chamberlin, Proc. U. S. N. Museum, Vol. XXIV, p. 

 24 (1901). 



Body robu-st, poli.shed ; head but little wider than long, sparsely 



punctate, especially anteriorly, sparsely pilo.se; dorsal scuta nejirly 



glabrous except at margins, weakly furrowed, the furrows in part 




1902.] ' NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 43 



more or less converging anteriorly or parallel, not raised into rugae; 

 ferruginous, the head and the last dorsal and ventral plates usually 

 darker, coloration of head deejier immediately caudad to the frontal 

 suture. Antenna? rather short, pilose; articles 20-23, large, de- 

 creasing in size from first to last. Ocelli on each side in an oblong 

 to narrowly oval patch, 16-2.5 in number, arranged in 3-5 longi- 

 tudinal series. Prosternal teeth 7-7 to 9-9, black, uniform. 

 Spines of first legs 2, 3, 2, of penult 1, 3, 3, 1 with 2 claws, of 

 anal 1, 3, 2, 1 with the claw single; coxse of the last two pairs of 

 legs armed beneath and also laterally with a stout spine. Coxal 

 pores usually of several sizes, numerous (often 25 and over), 

 ari-anged in 2-4 series. Claw of genital forceps of female tripartite, 

 the middle lobe a little longest, the lateral subequal, all short and 

 blunt ; basal spines 2-2, moderately stout, the outer pair longer and 

 stouter than the inner. 



Length 19-27 mm. ; width 2-3 mm; length of anal legs 8-11 

 mm. ; length of antenna; 8-11.5 mm. 



Jueenis. — Specimens 13-15 mm. long measure 1.5 mm. in width; 

 length of anal legs 4.5 mm. ; length of antennae 5 mm. Color 

 brown. Ocelli 10-15 in 2-3 series. Prosternal teeth 5-5 to 7-7. 

 Spines of the first and penult pairs of legs normal, those of the anal 

 pair normal or'l, 3, 2, 0. Coxal pores 6-12 in 2-3 series. 



Habitat. — Along the middle and lower courses of canyon streams 

 throughout the greater extent of the Wahsatch ]\Iountains, Utah. 



Elijmology. — Latin /:)er?ni(n(iMS, very elegant. 



5. Lithobius multidentatus Newport. 



Litliobius midtidenidtus Newport (1845); id. Gervais (1847). 

 Bothnipoli/s noMlis 'Wood (1863). 

 Bothropolya multide/itatus AVood (1865). 

 Lithobius multidentatus Stuxberg (1877). 



Habitat. — Eastern United States, south from Missouri, Illinois 

 Michigan and Pennsylvania {seq. Wood, Bollman et al.). 




44 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb. , 



CONTRIBUTIONS TO A KNOWLEDGE OF THE HYMENOPTERA OF 

 BRAZIL, NO. 8.-EUMENID^, continued (GENUS ODYNERUS>. 



BY WILLIAM J. FOX. 



As in most of the preceding papers of this series the work is 

 based upon material collected by Mr. Herbert H. Smith, and 

 which has now become the property of the Carnegie Museum. Pitts- 

 burgh, Pa. The types of all tlie new species described in the.se 

 papers' will therefore be under the care of that ^Iiiseum. 

 Odynerus (Stenancistrocerus) apicipennis n- sp. 



9. — Black, clotlied with a grayish pile, especially ou abdonicn; 

 anterior orbits below emargination, dot on tegulse posteriorly, inter- 

 rupted line on postscutelluni anteriorly, line at apex and at sides of 

 first dorsal segment, and sometimes an obscure line at a]iex of 

 second, yellow ; fore tibiae internally yellow, the tips of all femora 

 with a yellowish or reddisli spot ; antcniiaj re<ldish beneath toward 

 apex ; wings black basally, especially in costal region, clear 

 apically; head with a fovea behind ocelli, and on each side of 

 fovea a small patch of stiff hairs ; front deeply punctured ; clypeus 

 broader than long, subpyriform, shallowly punctured, emarginate 

 so as to present two acute, separated, teeth ; scape fully as long as 

 following four joints united ; space between hind ocelli, if anything, 

 slightly less than tliat between them and eyes ; prouotum margined, 

 obtu.<e laterally ; dorsulum with strong, rather close punctures, the 

 scutellum less closely punctured, flat, subquadrate; postwutellum 

 subtriaugidar, entire; middle .segment with strong, .separated pimc- 

 tures, not so coarse as on dorsulum and becoming sparse apically 

 and on sides, broadly depressed down middle, not ridged, presenting 

 two convex surfaces ; carina -of fiivt segment not very strong, the 

 longitudinal furrow of upj)er surface rather feeble, the surface 

 behind carina strongly punctured, anterior to it .spai-sely so ; doi-sals 

 2-') strongly punctured, the pimctures becoming closer and coarser 

 from apex of segment 2, the last dorsal witii shallow punctures ; 



' Except those described in Paper No. 6, which are in the Museu 

 Paulista of Sao P.iulo, Brazil. 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 45 



ventral segments with separated punctures ; uervures black, stigma 

 ferruginous. Lengtli 11 mm. 



c?. — Sculpture coarser, especially at apex of second dorsal seg- 

 ment ; in addition to the yellow markings of female the male has 

 two yellow spots on clypeus apically, and there is a greater amount 

 of red and yellow on legs ; clypeal teeth larger, the emargination 

 triangular ; space between hind ocelli, if anything, slightly greater 

 than that between them and eyes; anteunfe hooked at end, 

 the last joint acuminate, slightly curved, barely as long as 

 joint 11 ; postscutellum crenidated ; second, or second and third 

 segments obscurely margined with yellow at apex, and the apex of 

 middle segment marked with that cohn- ; in one example there are 

 three lineated macula on prouotum, which may indicate that this 

 part is sometimes margined with yellow posteriorly. Length 

 9-10 mm. 



Chapada (March, December); Corumba (April). Two 9, 

 three c? specimens. 

 Odynerus (Stenancistrocerus) convolutus a- sp. 



5. — Black, with a thin grayish pde ; scape, flageUum beneath, 

 mandibles, clypeus, eye-emarginations and the orbits below them, 

 spot between antennje, larger one at summit of cheeks, pronotum, 

 tegulse, mesopleurae above, and a large spot on the posterodateral 

 angles of middle segment, rufous ; hind margin of pronotum, base 

 and apex of tegidas, a dot beneath the latter, dot near each antero- 

 lateral angle of scutelluni, postscutellum entirely, and the apex of 

 first and second abdominal segments rather broadly pale yellow; 

 forelegs reddish-brown from just beyond base of femora ; other legs 

 black, with a spot near apex of medial femora, and a stripe on the 

 four hind tibife, pale yellow ; wings dark subhyaline, fuscous along 

 costal margin and in marginal cell ; nervures and stigma black. 

 Head with deep, separated punctures, especially above; a rounded 

 fovea behind ocelli ; hiud ocelli bordered internally by a smooth 

 tubercle, the space between them perhaps a little less than tliat 

 separating them from the eyes ; clypeus convex, with shallow punc- 

 tures, pyriform, triangularly emarginate at apex ; pronotum with 

 deep, separated punctures, scarcely margined, but dentate laterally ; 

 dorsidum and scutelluni with larger punctures, those on meso- 

 pleurse smaller ; postscutellum entire, somewhat angular posteriorly ; 

 middle segment deejily punctured, smooth at base of sides, broadly 




46 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



depressed medially, the depression extending from base to apex, 

 not margined, no horizontal surface medially, the postero-lateral 

 region convex ; first dorsal segment deeply punctured on its hori- 

 zontal siu-face, which is rather long, the carina, when viewed from 

 the front, highly arched ; second dorsal less strongly and closely 

 pimctured, shallowly so beneath, the apical margin slightly reflexed, 

 the ventral surface is slightly swollen transversely, but not much, 

 near base ; the third and fourth segments are pimctured on ajMcal 

 half only, and mucli more finely ; apical segment smooth. Length 

 8-9 mm. 



c^. — Differs chiefly in the pale yellow clypeus. mandibles, spot 

 between antennae and eye-eniargiuation ; the reddish base of Hagel- 

 lum and nuu-li more swollen base of second ventral segment ; hind 

 tibise suddenly enlarged within at apex ; first hind tarsal joint 

 havdng a twisted and sinuous shape; antenna; hooked, the terminal 

 joint curved, about as long as the eleventh joint, which in turn is 

 about one-fifth longer than the tenth ; clypeus narrower ; four hind 

 legs partly brownish. Length .S-9 mm. 



Corumbii (April). Two 9, seven c? specimens. Apparently 

 related to 0. Fariasi and 0. incommodus. 

 Odynerus (Stenanoistrooerus) sufEusos n- sp. 



rj'. — Black; civ pens, spot on mandibles, scape in front, line 

 between antenna;, and eye-emargination jmle yellow ; spot on cheeks 

 above, hind margin of pronotum, dot behind tegulse, and apical 

 margin of .segments l-<), bright yellow; that on segments 2-fi (piite 

 broad, in fact segments 3-fi appear entirely yellow above ; apical 

 segment brownish; pronotum anteriorly, spot beneath wing, post- 

 scutellum and on miildlc segment postero-laterally, rufous and 

 yellow ; tegiUse brown ; sides of abdominal segments 1 and 2 more 

 or less suffiLsed with rufous ; legs reddish, anterior coxa; and most 

 of hintl femora black, the remaining coxre yellow anteriorly, a.>-- well 

 as a stripe on the fore and medial femora and a spot on hind ])air 

 at apex ; flagellum reddish beneath ; head with strong deej) punc- 

 tures; front presenting two convex surfaces; each hind ocelli n)ar- 

 gined internally by a tubercle; no fovea behind them; dyiwus 

 lozencc-shaiwd, longer than broad, roundly emarginatc: antcnnse 

 hooked, tlie terminal joint flattened and strongly curvi'd, barely as 

 long as the eleventh joint, wliirli in luiii is fully onc-tliini longer 

 than the tenth joint; thorax deeply ]iinuturcd. most closely so on 




1902.] NATUEAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 47 



pronotum, sparsely so ou mesopleurse ; prouotum subdeutate ; post- 

 scutellum slightly crenulated ; middle segment broadlj' depressed or 

 subeoncave, not margined, with but a slight trace of a horizontal 

 surface medially, postero-lateral region convex, especially above; 

 hind tibise and tarsi as in c? of convolutus ; abdomen much as in 

 convoiutm, but the second segment more reflexed at apex, the ven- 

 tral swelling less strong and the punctuation stronger ; wing-s as in 

 that species. Length 8—9 mm. 



Corumba and Pedra Branca (April). Eight specimens. 



Odynerus (Stenanoistrocerus) areatns i>.sp. 



c?. — Black; ch^jeus at base and two parallel lines apically, scape 

 beneath, .spot at base of antennae, in eye-emargination, and at top 

 of cheeks, line on mandibles and on pronotum posteriorly, some- 

 times a spot on mesopleurse above, and a line at apical margin of 

 all segments, including last, yellow ; flagellum beneath fulvous ; 

 tegidge variable, black or yellow testaceous; legs black-brown, 

 knees and tarsi lighter, anterior tibise yellowish in front; head very 

 deeply punctured, especially the front ; hind ocelli not margined 

 internally by a tubercle, the space between them about equal to 

 that \\ hich separates them from the eyes ; clypeus with shallow 

 punctures, subpyriform, almost as broad as long, sliarjily and tri- 

 angularly emargiuate, the teeth acute and each bearing a tolerably 

 distinct carina extending back toward middle of clypeus ; antennoe 

 hooked, the last joint ou'ved, rather slender, about as long as joint 

 11, which in turn is alxmt one-fifth longer than 10; thorax deeply 

 punctured ; pronotum dentate laterally ; scutellum impi'essed ; post- 

 scutellum entire, triangular ; middle segment broadly concave, no 

 horizontal surface medially, the postero-lateral angles prominent, 

 above and on sides rugosely punctured, in the concavity deeply 

 punctured ; hind tiliiaj and tarsi not modified ; first segment strongly 

 pimctured, and behind the carina, laterally, there is a large, 

 smooth, depressed area ; second segment not so strongly or as closely 

 punctured above, not reflexed, the ventral surface with shallow 

 punctures, prominent in a transverse way, near base ; remaining 

 segments strongly punctured apically, finely so toward base ; wings 

 dark subhyalinc, more fuscous along anterior margin ; nervures and 

 stigma dark brown. Length 9 mm. 



Chapada (March, December). Two specimens. 




48 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



Odynerus abdominalis n. sp. 



?. — Black; a narrow, medially interrupted line at base of 

 clypeus, spot at base of antennae and another at summit of cheeks, 

 line on scape, anterior and posterior marsfins of prouotum narrowly, 

 dot behind tegidse, line on postscutelluni, line on middle segment 

 postero-laterally (sometimes absent), and apex of all abdominal 

 segments, yellow; legs dark brown, anterior tibiae yellow in front; 

 head deeply punctured; a distinct medial fovea behind ocelli; 

 clypeus longitudinally rugoso-punctate, a little longer than broad, 

 subpyriform, subtruncate, a lateral carina terminates in a minute 

 tooth ; flagellum short ; thorax deeply punctured, mesopleuroe less 

 strongly ; scutellum not impressed ; postscutelluni entire ; middle 

 segment broadly concave, coarsely punctured above, finely riigose 

 in the concavity, postero-lateral angles prominent, a very slight 

 jiorizontal surface medially ; first segment behind the fine sharp 

 carina broader than long, with tolerably strong punctures becoming 

 sparse anteriorly ; second segment strongly pimcturcd apically, the 

 puuctui'es becoming sparser and feebler toward base, between mid- 

 dle and apex there Ls a distinct transverse depression and the apical 

 margin is distinctly produced medially into a tooth ; ventral surface 

 depressed medially, trausvei"sely swollen near base, the punctures 

 similar to those of the dorsal moiety laterally; wing subfuscous, 

 paler apically, darkest along anterior margin; ncrvures black, 

 stigma dark brown. Length 9-10 mm. 



Chapada (March, December). Three specimens. 



OdyneruB (Stenanoistrooerus) dentiformis n- sp. 



?. — 151ack, with silky pile, especially on the abdomen; arcuate 

 line on base of clypeus, spot at base of antennae, in the eye-emar- 

 gination, ba.se of mandibles, and at summit of cheeks, scape ante- 

 riorly, anterior and posterior margins of prouotum, post.scutellum 

 except apex, spot beneath tegulse and a small one behind them, two 

 semicircular spots on posterior surface of middle segment the two so 

 placed as to almost form a circle, a spot before ajMx of midiUe and 

 anterior femora, a line on all tibiae, apical margin of abdominal 

 segment.s 1-5, rather broadly, and last dorsal .<ogment entirely, 

 bright yellow ; tegula; reddish-brown, margined with yellow ; flagel- 

 lum not pale beneath; legs dark brown ; head with deep, separated 

 punctures; a smooth fovea behind ocelli, the hind pair of the latter 

 each bordered internally by a tubercle; elyjjeus subjjyriforni. 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 49 



coarsely pimctiired, toward apex becoming striato-punctate, the 

 apex with two well -separated teeth, .subemarginate ; pronotum 

 sharply margined, siibdeutate, and like the dorsulum, though more 

 closely, with deep separated punctures ; postscutellum entire ; 

 middle segment broadly depressed or concave, strongly punctured, 

 rugoso-punctate in concavity, which is not margined, no horizontal 

 surface medially ; first dorsal segment behind carina broader than 

 long, with strong punctures, the carina sharpest laterally ; second 

 dorsal segment, vie\ve(l from tlie side, rather angulate toward base, 

 where it is scarcely punctured, the punctures beginning behind base 

 and increase in size toward apex, where they are quite coarse, at a 

 point between middle and apex the segment is transversely de- 

 pressed, the apical margin is dentiform medially, ventrally this seg- 

 ment is depressed medially, prominent basally, the punctures rather 

 shallow ; remaining segments except last strongly punctured apically, 

 less coarsely toward base ; wings subhyaline, yellow in costal cell, 

 and with apical margin and most of marginal cell fuscous, stigma 

 yellow-brown ; nen-ures darker. Length about 9 mm. 



c?. — Colored much like the ?, with the flagellum more or less 

 brown, fulvous beneath ; clypeiu? yellow, but usually more or less 

 dark medially, shorter than in ? and not striated ; antennae with 

 terminal joint short and thick, broadly and obliquely trimcate, the 

 length of this joint about equals that of the jienultimate, the two 

 together barely as long as the eleventh joint ; punctuation coarser 

 than in ? ; hind tibise or tarsi not unusually modified. Length 

 8-9 nun. 



Corumba (April); Chapada (Decembei'). Seven ?, nhie d 

 specimens. 

 Odynerus (Anoistrooerus) fulvimaoulus n. sp. 



g. — -Black; head (except -shaped spot including ocelli) and 

 pronotum orange; antennae orange, the flagellum above darker 

 medially ; clypeus, mandibles except inner margin and tips, tegulae 

 except brown middle, large spot on mesopleurae above scutellum, 

 postscutellum, postero-lateral angles of middle segment, and a 

 fascia at apex of segments 1-5, yeUow, that on segments 1 and 

 2 much the broadest ; legs : the anteriors entirely, the medials except 

 upper surface of coxae, trochanters and base of femora, and of the 

 hind pair a spot on coxae at apex, a line on the femora beneath and 

 the tibise except internally, yellow ; hind tarsi brownish. Head 

 4 




50 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



less strongly and more closely punctured than in rufimaeulus, the 

 pimctures roimder ; occiput not so much depressed ; vertical brush 

 present, but no tubercles near ocelli ; eye-emarginatiou narrower 

 and less triangular ; cl^'peus similar in shape, but shallowly pimc- 

 tured, the apical emargiuation larger and more triangular; 

 thorax practically as described in riifimaculus, perhaps less coarsely 

 sculptured and the concavity of middle segment less distinctly mar- 

 gined laterally ; abdomen very similar, as are also the wings. 

 Length 7^ mm. 



Chapada (April). Two specimens. Bears a strong resemblance 

 to rufimacidits, but is at once .separated by the orange, not red, 

 color of head and pronotum. It is closely related to that species, 

 but the absence of ocellar tubercles, more deeply emargiiiate and 

 less strongly sculptured clypeus, as well as coloration, readily sep- 

 arate it. 



Odynerns (Anclstrooerns) mfimaoalus n. sp. 



?. — Black, head (except between ocelli) and pronotum rufous: 

 antennae rufous, the flagelluni dark above medially ; cl\"]ieus except 

 medially, mandibles except tips, posterior margin ami antero-lateral 

 angles of pronotum, tegulse except the brown middle, spot on meso- 

 pleurse above, scutellum, jiostscutellum, postero-lateral angles of 

 middle segment, apical margin of fii-st dorsal, and apical margins 

 of second, yellow ; legs black, or black-brown, the anterior tibios in 

 greater part and a stripe on the other tibite, yellow. Head strongly 

 pimctured ; occiput transversely depressed ; ocelli sunken, the hind 

 pair margined internally by a smooth tubercle, and behind them a 

 bunch of erect pale brownish hairs ; clypeus cordate, longitudinally 

 rugoso-punctate, but not coarsely so, the apex with two small a]>- 

 proximate teeth, or, in other words, finely emarginate; eye-eniar- 

 gination (juite triangular; thonxx deeply punctured, especially the 

 dorsuluni ; j)ronotum sharply margine<l, acutely angular or subdcn- 

 tate laterally; postseutellum distinctly crenulated, truncate, with a 

 distinct vertical surface coalescing with the concave "surface of mid- 

 dle segment, which surface is smooth, carinate down middle and 

 bordered outwardly by a rough, tolerably distinct margin formed by 

 its junction with the sides; the latter are .«trongly puncturetl except 

 ba.«ally ; abdomen robust; carina of first segment sharp, that jwrtion 

 of segment lying behind it much broader than long, the punctures 

 distinct but not coarse, and sparser basally; second dorsal more 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 51 



distinctly and closely punctured, more coarsely apically, not 

 reflexed, the ventral surface with larger, sparser punctures ; other 

 segments, as far as visible, distinctly punctured except the last; 

 wings subhyaline, clouded apically, in the marginal cell, and less 

 strongly in the costal ; nervures and stigma black or dark brown. 

 Length 7^ mm. 



^ — Colored like 9, with the yellow of clypeus more extended; 

 occiput less depressed, and no vertical brush ; clypeus shorter with 

 emargiuation deeper; eye-emargination not triangular; antennse 

 hooked, the last joint rather small, its length condiined with that of 

 the preceding one not equaling the eleventh joint ; pronotum dentate ; 

 legs not unusually modified. Length 7 mm. 



Corumba and Pedra Branca in April. One 9 , three males. 



Odynerus (Stenanoistrooerus) atripes n. sp. 



9. — Black, with sericeous pile; sides of clypeus, spot between 

 antennjB, in the eye-emargination, scape beneath, line behind eyes, 

 posterior margin of pronotum, greater part of scutellum and post- 

 scutellura, dot beneath wings, a semicircular spot on each side of 

 middle segment posteriorly, line at apex and sides of segment 1, 

 and apical margin of segment 2, dull yellow; flagellum fulvous 

 beneath; legs black, the fore tibije testaceous in front. Head 

 with deep, rather close but not confluent, pmictures; a rounded 

 fovea behind ocelli ; the latter not margined by tubercles ; clypeus 

 convex, low pyriform, broader than long, with shallow separa- 

 ted punctures, its fore margin with two rather widely separated 

 teeth ; thorax with strong, close punctures, those on mesopleui'se finer 

 and sparser, and those of antero-lateral porton of middle segment 

 large and sparse, giving that portion of the segment a spongy 

 appearance; scutellum impressed; postscutellum subtriangular ; 

 middle segment at base with a short medial surface, but it is very 

 slight and depressed below the postscutellum ; concavity almost 

 smooth, boimded by a tolerably strong carina ; first segment with 

 shallow punctures, with tlie carina sharp and sinuous, the dorsal 

 surface twice a.* broad as long, and with a faint, though distinct, 

 longitudinal furrow medially ; second segment with similar sparser 

 punctures, not reflexed, ventral surface with stronger punctures, 

 transversely prominent near base ; dorsals 3-5, closely and strongly 

 pimctured; wings subhyaline, a fuscous cloud in marginal cell, 

 nervures and stigma dark brown. Length 10-11 mm. 




52 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



c?. — Colored like ?, but with elypeus entirely, mandibles except 

 tips, and the fore margin of pronotum more or less, yellow ; elypeus 

 hexagonal the apical teeth closer and sharper; no fovea behind 

 ocelli; flagellmn elongate, together with the two preceding joints 

 longer than head and thorax, subelavate, hooked at tip, the last two 

 joints united barely longer than joint 11; longitudinal furrow of 

 segment fainter or absent; general punctuation coarser than 

 in ? . Length 8-1 mm. 



Chapada (January, May, October); Corumba (April). Eleven 

 ? , twenty -seven c? specimens. In the longitudinally sulcate first 

 segment this insect approaches Symmorphus, but the hooked antennae 

 of the male excludes it from that sectiou of the genus. 



Odynerus (Anoistrooerus?) conjunctus n. sp- 



?. — Black, with .sericeous pile, that on sides of face somewhat 

 silvery; elypeus except medial spot, mandibles near base, scape 

 beneath, dot at base of anteun.i?, short line in eye-emargination, 

 line on cheeks near vertex, pronotum anteriorly in middle and its 

 hind margin, scutellum, postscutellum, tegulse at ba-se and apex, 

 spot directly under them, a somewhat .semicircular mark on each 

 side of posterior face of middle segment, and a fascia at apex of 

 segments 1-5, yellow ; the fascia of segment 1 broadest and extends 

 on the sides as far jvs the carina ; flagellum beneath fulvous ; some- 

 times the pronotum has on each side two obliquely parallel lines of 

 rufous, one bordering the posterior margin ; legs dark, the four 

 anterior femora beneath ttjward apex, and all the tibiae beneath 

 more or less yellow, tarsi dark testaceous. Head with deep sep- 

 arated punctures, a rather transverse fovea behind ocelli ; the latter 

 not margined by tubercles; elypeus .subcon vex, deiu'essed apically, 

 somewhat triangular, broader than long, with rather distinct, .separ- 

 ated punctures, the fore margin with two rather sharp and widely 

 separated, diverging teeth; thorax with .strong, separateil punctures, 

 those on scutellum and sides of pronotum less close ; those on raeso- 

 pleurffi smallest ; middle segment above rugoso-punctatc, on sides 

 with sparse shallow punctures; scutellum entire ; postscutellum with 

 a slight emargination anteriorly in middle; middle segment ^vith 

 scarcely r. medial up|)er surface, the posterior face broadly depressed, 

 margined by a ridge, which reaches its greatest development api- 

 cally ; first abdominal .segment closely punctured, the carina sharp 

 and when vieweil from the fnmt shows a sharp angle above, dorsal 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 53 



surface not impressed, at apex twice as broad as long, but its sides 

 narrow quite rapidly toward the carina; second doi-sal more dis- 

 tinctly punctured, but not strongly, subconvex beneath; wings 

 subhyaline, a fuscous cloud in marginal cell, nervures and stigma 

 dark brown. Length 9 mm. 



cJ". — Colored like 9, but with clypeus entirely, and mandibles 

 except tip, yellow, as are also most of fore tibite and all tarsi ; the 

 yellow spot at base of antennse is elongate, extending down between 

 them; sculptured like the ?, except that the punctures of the 

 abdomen are stronger ; flagellum beneath and tips fulvous, elongate, 

 subclavate together with the two preceding joints, shorter than the 

 head and thorax, the first joint a little, though distinctly, longer 

 than second, hooked at tip, the last two joints minute, the two 

 together considerably shorter than the precedmg joint, the apical 

 joint the longer of the two; clypeus small, hexagonal, the apical 

 margin roundly emargiuate. Length 7-9 mm. 



Chapada (April, September, October, December) ; Coriunba 

 (April). Three females, numerous males. 



This species combines the characteristics of Ancistrocerus (upper 

 face of first segment transverse) with those of Hypancutrocerus 

 (cavity of middle segment bounded by a sharp ridge). 

 Odynerus (Hypanoistrooerus) advena Sauss. 



Corumba (February, April, ^lay); Chapada (April). Out of 

 the large series present, but oue specimen is marked as having come 

 from Chapada. The differences of climate at these two districts 

 and the greater elevation of Chapada'- may have influenced the dis- 

 tribution of this species, as radicated by the present collection. 



Odynems (Hypanoistrooerus) reflexus u- sp. 



$. — Black; with sericeoiLs, grayish pile, especially on abdominal 

 segments 1 and 2 ; clypeus basally, spot between insertion of 

 antenure, in each eye-emargination, scape beneath, line on each 

 side of pronotum anteriorly, spot on cheeks near top, on tegulse at 

 base and apex, with a small one behind them, oue on mesopleui-ce, 

 line on postscutellum, postero-lateral angles of middle segment, 

 four anterior femora beneath apically, a line ou all tibiai, and apical 

 margin of abdominal segments 1-5, yellow, that on second segment 

 broadest ; posterior margin of pronotum, and flagellum beneath, 



2 See these Proceedings, 1896, pp. 293, 294. 




54 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



reddish-testaceous ; four hind tarsi lilack. Head with deep, separ- 

 ated, punctures ; front strongly convex ; clypeus convex basally, 

 flattened apically, elongate pyriform, with large, sparse punctures, 

 and apically with a carina on each side terminating in a small tooth 

 on apical margin, which is triaugularly_emarginate ; a smooth fovea 

 or area behind ocelli, the latter not margined by tubercles ; thorax 

 with deep, separated punctures especially on doi-sulum and scutel- 

 lum, the latter impressed apically; pronotum sharply cristate, 

 obtusely dentate laterally ; punctures of mesopleurte not so coarse, 

 and more scattered ; middle segment with a distinct medial suj-face 

 above, which is rugose, sides punctured like the mesopleurse, con- 

 cavity bounded by a ridge, broad, with large shallow punctures, the 

 postero-lateral angles prominent, obtusely dentiform ; abdomen with 

 large separated punctures, not so coarse however as those of 

 thorax ; fii-st segment smooth anteriorly, the carina rather sharp, 

 angular medially when viewed from front, the segment behind it 

 broader than long ; second dorsal with its apical margin reflexed ; 

 wings subhyaline, darker in marginal cell. Length 9 nun. 



(?. — Clypeus entirely yellow, somewhat hexagonal, with two sharp 

 rather approximate teeth apically ; hind ocelli margined with a 

 tubercle internally ; antennae longer than head and tliorax, flagel- 

 iuiii fulvous beneath, the eleventh joint concave beneath apically 

 and broad, twelfth joint small, much more so than the eleventh, the 

 following joint narrow basally, widened at a])ex, and rather flat, 

 terminal joint small, obtuse at tip, not half tii(^ length of preceding 

 one; scutellum im];rcssed its entire length; hind tibiie slender, but 

 widened suddenly at apex ; second ventral segment transversely 

 depressed at base. Length 7-i) mm. 



Chapada (December, January, May); ('onimba (.Vpril). 



The d" antenna; in this sjjecies are in reality 14-jointi'd, which 

 is also the case in 0. advena. This character .-icems to be the best 

 for defining the division Hypancktrocerus, the horizontally pro- 

 duced superior face of mid<llc segment being of le.<* value, inas- 

 much as it is fouml in all degrees of development in various species. 

 Some species with IS-jointed J* antennae possess it. 



Odynerus coxalis n. sp. 



9. — Black; thorax and alnlomen with sericeoiLS grayi.sh pile; 

 two spots on clypeus ba.-^ally, one between insertion of antenna;, in 

 each eye-eniargination, on mandibles near i)a.se, line on scajie 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 55 



beneath, a medially interruiited liue on pronotum auteriorly, line 

 on fore margin of postscutellum, spot on foiu- anterior femora at 

 apex, line on all tibite, and at apex of segments 1-5 rather broadly, 

 yellow; flagellum beneath, hind margin of pronotum narrowly, 

 and tegulaj (except a yellow basal spot), reddish-testaceous; tarsi 

 dark. Head deeply but rather closely punctured, the hind ocelli 

 margined by a tubercle internally and behind them a depressed 

 smooth area; front not strongly convex, not impressed; clypeus 

 elongate pyriform, with large, sparse, shallow punctures, with a 

 carina on each side toward apex, which projects in the form of teeth, 

 one at each side of the fore margin ; thorax punctured very simi- 

 larly to front, but on the mesopleurse the punctures are much sparser 

 and not so deep ; fore margin of pronotum sharply crested except 

 medially ; scutellum impressed down middle ; middle segment with 

 a distinct dorsal surface medially, rugoso-punctate above, on sides 

 with large, sparse, punctures, the concave area with large, shallow 

 punctures, bordered by a rough but not strongly indicated ridge, 

 at the sides subangular; carina of first abdominal segment well- 

 developed, sharply angular above, the dorsal surface of the segment 

 not more than half as long as it is broad on apical margin, its 

 punctures strong and separated but not as coarse as on front ; the 

 second segment with the punctures shallower, sparse at base, the 

 apical margin slightly reflexed, ventral surface with stronger pimc- 

 tures, at base transvereely depressed, the medial surface rather flat ; 

 wings subhyaline, clouded in costal and marginal cells, nervures 

 black. Length 9 mm. 



J^. — Colored like ?, but with clypeus entirely yellow, the yellow 

 of eye-emargination forming a Ime bordering the orbit, that on pro- 

 notiun and legs more extended; punctuation coarser; clypeus 

 shorter, though rather similarly shaped as in the female, with shal- 

 low punctures throughout ; flagellum with joints 1-8 pale fulvous 

 but the apices with a narrow black line, rather robast and clavate 

 as far as the eighth joint, terminal joint long, equaling the two 

 preceding ones united in length, somewhat curved ; the total length 

 of the antennae is barely as long as head and thorax ; legs not 

 unusual except that the hind coxse are strongly dentate above 

 near base ; second segment scarcely reflexed. Length 8 mm. 



Chapada (September) ; Corumba (February). Two ? and one 

 cf specimens. 




56 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



Odynerus Herbertii ". sp. 



?.— Black; rather densely sericeous with pile; dot at base of 

 antennae, and in eye-emargination, on mandibles at base, line on 

 scape beneath, spot at summit of cheeks, spot or short line at lateral 

 angles of pronotum, posterior margin of pronotum obscurely, line 

 on postscutellum, line bordering the couca\'ity of middle segment, 

 extreme tips of femora, line on tibise, and apical margin of all 

 abdominal segments including the last, lemon-yellow ; the abdomi- 

 nal fasoite broad, especially on second dorsal segment. Head with 

 deep, separated punctures, the front convex, slightly impi-essed 

 medially ; hind ocelli pitted ; a smooth depressed area behind them ; 

 clypeus pyriform, ferruginous at tip, with sparse shallow punctures 

 running into coarse strife apically, the apex triangularly eniar- 

 ginate, or with two acute teeth from each of which a shiu-t carina 

 runs toward the middle of clypeus; thorax with the punctures 

 larger and more separated, especially on uiesopleurse; pronotum 

 with a slight crista toward sides, which is continued into a rather 

 acute tooth on the autero-lateral angles, tlie medial length of the 

 pronotum comparatively long; scutellum not impressed; middle 

 segment rugoso-jnmctate above, with shallow spar.<e )ninctures on 

 sides, a fairly developed medial upper surface, which however is 

 emarginate, the concave surface strongly punctured, augulate later- 

 ally, the bordering ridge not well developcl; fii-st abdominal seg- 

 ment with the punctures strong, l)ut much finer and clo.ser than on 

 any part of thorax, the carina margined by fovese behind, and 

 behind these fovete is a transvei-se smooth area which, is widest 

 laterally, and is separated medially by some coai-se punctures ; the 

 medial length of that portion of this segment behind the carina 

 almost equals half its width ; isecond .segment impunctate basally, 

 with shallow punctures, finer than on [)receding segment, and which 

 become stronger until on apical margin they are quite coarse ; the 

 latter not refloxed, but medially is angularly produce<l ; remaining 

 segments punctured on a])ical portion only, except second ventral, 

 which has separated shallow punctures throughout; wings yellow 

 basally and in the costal cell, the neuration brownish, more yellow 

 toward base; apical portion of wing subhyaliue, tiie margin nar- 

 rowly, and a cloud in marginal cell, fuscous. Length 9 nun. 



J*. — Coloration similar to that of female, except in the following 

 points: clyiH-us entirely pale yellow; tegulse brown with a yellow 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 57 



basal spot ; the abdominal fascise heavier. The clypeus is longer, 

 more lozenge-shaped, not cariuated, and the punctures very shallow, 

 in fact quite indistinct ; front not impressed ; hind ocelli margined 

 internally by a tubercle ; flagellum dull rufous beneath, the tenth 

 joint minute, the eleventh elongate, acute, the combined length of the 

 two not more than equaling that of the uiuth joint ; the length of the 

 antennae is not quite as long as the head and thorax united ; medial 

 length of pronotum not as great as in female ; sculpture throughout 

 somewhat coarser; the angulation of second dorsal more pro 

 nounced, almost dentiform. Length 8-9 mm. 



Chapada (September, December, January); Corumba (April). 

 One female, eleven male specimens. 



Odynerus oordatus n. sp. 



?. — Black; sides of clypeus, spot at base of auteunse, in each 

 eye-emargination, at base of mandibles, scape beneath, short line 

 on cheeks near summit, rather broad line on pronotum anteriorly 

 and on scutellum posteriorly, spot on mesopleurse, tips of four ante- 

 rior femora broadly, most of fore tibise and a line on medial ones, 

 the hind pair obscurely lined, and apical margin of segments 1-5 

 narrowly, yellow ; flagellum beneath and tegulse fulvoas brown, the 

 latter spotted basally with yellow. Head with large separated 

 punctures ; front slightly impressed ; no smooth area behind ocelli ; 

 clypeus cordate, strongly punctured, not carinate, triangularly emar- 

 ginate at apex ; flagellum clavate, rather short ; punctures of thorax 

 scarcely as deep and a little more separated than on front, those on 

 mesopleurse much more separated ; fore margin of pronotum cris- 

 tate its entire length, subdentate at sides ; medial length of prono- 

 tum not well developed ; upper surface of middle segment very well 

 developed medially, not emarginate, coarsely rugose, in length 

 almost equaling the scutellum ; concavity of middle segment appar- 

 ently not sculptured, the surrounding ridge rather even, and not so 

 broken as in many species of the genus ; first abdominal segment 

 closely though distinctly punctured on doi-sal surface, which in 

 length is not equal to half its breadth, the carina distinct though 

 comparatively slender, and behind it there is a series of fovese ; 

 second segment even more closely punctured, but more sparingly 

 toward apical margin, which is not reflexed ; ventral segments with 

 large, sparser punctures, the second at base with a series of very 

 large fovese; wings subhyaline, with a fuscous cloud in marginal 




58 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



cell extending on to the apical margin, nervures and stigma dark 

 brown. Length 7^ mm. 



One specimen, without precise locality label. The black of 

 clypeue:, in shape, resembles an inverted decanter. 

 Odynerus dorsonotatus n. sp. 



? . — Black ; with sericeous gray pile especially on abdomen ; 

 scape beneath, dot at base of antennae, in eye-emargination, short 

 line on cheeks near summit, posterior margin of pronotum and 

 anteriorly in the middle (sometimes tlie lateral angles), large spot 

 on dorsulum at apex, smaller ones beneath and behind teguliB, 

 postscutellum except apex, the margins of the concavity of middle 

 segment, a stripe on all tibiae, and apical margin of segments 1-5 

 (that on 1 and 2 broadest), yellow; in one specimen the entire 

 concavity of middle segment is yellow ; tegulse dark In-own or 

 black. Head with deep, separated pimctures, especially on front, 

 which is convex and very slightly impressed ; ocelli rather deeply 

 pitted, the hind pair margined internally by a tubercle, and Ijehiud 

 them is a smooth, depressed area ; clypeus pyriform, wholly black, 

 ajjparently impimctate at base and sides, coarsely striato-punctate 

 apically, bearing a ratlier long carina on each side which terminates 

 apically in a large acute tooth, making the clypeus strongly l)iden- 

 tate, the teeth well separated ; flagellum clavate ; punctures of the 

 thorax not so close as on front, though ])robably as strong, those 

 on mesopleurre sparsest ; pronotum not crested, but sharply dentate 

 laterally, its medial length insignificant ; scutellum distinctly fur- 

 rowed down middle ; upper surface of middle segment distinctly 

 developed medially, not emargiuate, rugoso-puuctate ; concavity 

 broad with shallow punctures, the bordering ridge not well marked, 

 sides of middle segment with large, sparse punctures; carina of 

 first dorsal segment distinct, though uot very sharp, and is some- 

 what irregular, margined posteriorly by fovese, and then followed 

 by a large, smooth, triangular area on each side, the remainder of 

 segment with deep, sejjaratud jHuictures, its medial length greater 

 than half its apical width ; second dorsal almost impunctate basally, 

 most strongly and closely punctured apically, the posterior margin 

 not rettexed ; second ventral segment with larger, shallow, spai-ser 

 punctures ; wings dark subhyaline, with a fuscous cloud in the 

 marginal cell, nervur&s and stigma dark. Length f< mm. 



Cliapada (December). Four specimens. The immaculate cly- 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 59 



pens aud mandibles and the spot on dorsiilum are apparently con- 

 stant in this species and are good superficial characteristics. The 

 other spots, however, vary to some extent, aud iu one specimen 

 there are traces of yellow on scutellum. 



Odynerus longioornis n. sp. 



c?. — Black ; chijeus (except a median spot and the sides aud 

 apical margin narrowly), dot at insertion of anteunse, in the eye- 

 emargination, near summit of cheeks, line on mandibles basally aud 

 on scape beneath, hind margin of pronotum, postscutellum except 

 apex, elongate spot on median femora beneath at apex, dot on 

 tegulse at base, and a small one behind them, and a line at apex of 

 abdominal segments 1-6, yellow ; the lines on first two segments 

 broadest; joints 2-10 of antennte fulvou.s beneath; teguloe, tibire 

 aud tarsi brownish. Head with deep punctures, well separated 

 especially on the front, the latter rather flat, scarcely impressed ; 

 hind ocelli margined internally by a tubercle, scarcely pitted; 

 clypeus pyriform, with shallow, spai-se punctures, with a sharp 

 carma on each side terminating in a sharp tooth apically (the apex 

 has a deep triangular emargiuatiou) ; antenna} long and slender, 

 longer than head and thorax ; terminal joint curved, in length about 

 equaling the preceding two united, the penultimate one small ; 

 pronotum not crested, but with a distinct blunt tooth laterally, its 

 punctures as well as those of doi-sidum deep and separated, and its 

 median length not well developed; scutellum with fewer and shal- 

 lower pimctures, not impressed, the mesopleurse even more so; 

 middle segment not well developed above medially, rather emar- 

 ginate, rugoso-punctate above, the pimctures becoming shallower 

 and sparser ou sides near metapleune; concavity irregularly mar- 

 gined by a ridge, rugoso-punctate, but not so coarsely as the upper 

 surface ; carina of first segment bordered posteriorly by a series of 

 fovefe, and then, on each side of the segment, by a smooth area ; 

 remainder of doi-sal surface with deep separated punctures, its 

 median length from the carina to apex about half as long as broad 

 apically ; second doi-sal segment with the punctures separated, but 

 much shallower except at sides, smooth at base however, where it 

 is depressed, so that when viewed from the side the segment seems 

 obtusely angulated between base and middle, apical margin not 

 reflexed ; punctures of remaining segments, except on second ven- 

 tral, cunfiued to apical portion; wings subhyaline, darker along 




60 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



oosta and in marffinal cell, nervure* and ?tigma brownish. Length 

 9 mm. 



Corumba (April). One specimen. 



Odynerus strlatus n. sp. 



?. — Black; a curved medially interrupted line on clypeus at 

 base, spot on mandibles near base, at insertion of antennae, dot in 

 eye-emaro-ination, scape beneath, spot on cheeks near summit, on 

 lateral angles of pronotum, posterior margin of the latter obscurely, 

 dot behind tegulas, line on postscutellum, the borders of the con- 

 cavity of middle segment, and a line at apical margin of segments 

 1-5, yeUow ; flagellum entirely dark, the pedicel testaceoiLs beneath ; 

 tegulffi brownish ; legs dark, somewhat brownish, the tarsi and fore 

 tibife lighter. Head deeply punctured ; front strongly convex, the 

 cheeks more so than in allied species ; hind ocelli pitted, the head 

 behind them with a small rounded depression or pit ; clypeus pyri- 

 form, striated longitudinally, most coai-sely apically, where, on each 

 side, is a carina which terminates in a blunt though well-developed 

 tooth at apex (the apex of cl}i3eus between the teeth is depressed 

 or excavated) ; flagellum clavate ; thorax with the punctures larger 

 than on the head, sparsest on mesopleura? ; ])ronotum with a well- 

 develojied crista toward sides wliich are dentate; scutellum not 

 impressed; middle segment witli a fairly well-develoj)ed medial 

 surface above, where it is coai-sely rugoso-puuetate, the fide.-- with 

 coarse punctures l)eciiniing shallower and sparser toward meta- 

 pleurse, concavity with sliallow jjunctures, bordered witli a rather 

 shaq) ridge; carina of first abdominal segment bordered posteriorly 

 by a series of foveie, which are in turn followed by a trausverse 

 smooth area on each side, the remainder of the segment with fairly 

 strong jnuictures much less strong than on any part i>f thorax, 

 however; the length of the first segment from the carina l)ack is 

 greater than half its width at apex ; segment 2 above similarly 

 punctured, but more coarsely at apex, which is .slightly produced 

 in the middle, giving it an angular appearance, veutrHlly the seg- 

 ment is more sparsely punctured ; wings subhyaline, quite dark 

 along costal margin, and in marginal cell; nervures and stigma 

 black. Length 9 mm. 



cf. — Colored much like the ?, but differing as follows: clypeus 

 entirely, and a median spot on pronotum, yellow; fore tii>i:«' testa- 

 ceous brown ; flagellum beneath brownish. Clvjxiiis shorter, more 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 61 



rounded, convex, triangularly emarginate ; hind ocelli margined by 

 a tubercle internally; flagellum elongate, subclavate, the apical 

 joint about as long as the preceding two united, tlie penultimate 

 minute ; length of first doreal segment from carina to apex not 

 greater than half its width ; apical margin of second dorsal slightly 

 reflexed. Length 7-8 mm. 



Chapada (September, December, January, March). Three ?, 

 four c? specimens. The striated clypeus, brown unspotted tegulte 

 and dark legs are apparently constant characteristics of this 

 species. 

 Odynerus inusitatus n. sp. 



d"'. — Black ; line between insertion of auteunffi, line in eye-emar- 

 gination bordering the orbit, scape beneath, clypeus (except a black 

 medial spot), mandibles except apex and outer margin, short line 

 on cheeks near summit, spot at lateral angles and at each side of 

 middle of pronotum (none of these spots touching the fore margin), 

 spot imder tegulse and a smaller one behind them, and on them at 

 base, postscutellum except apex, spot on postero-lateral angles of 

 middle segment, a line at apex of segments 1-6, four anterior 

 femora more or less at apex, and all the tibiie more or less, yellow. 

 Head with deep, more evenly separated pimctures ; front subcon- 

 vex, slightly impressed ; hind ocelli margined by tubercles internally, 

 a deep furrow extending from between the tubercles back toward 

 the occiput; clypeus rather pyriform, convex, with unusually deep, 

 separated pimctures, apex with two well-separated, acute teeth, 

 each of which is preceded by a fairly distinct carina; antenna 

 shorter than head and thorax united, the pedicel and flagellum ful- 

 vous beneath, terminal joint a little longer than the two preceding 

 imited; thorax with punctures larger and more separated than on 

 head, those on mesopleurie quite sparse ; pronotum cristate its entire 

 width, the lateral angles strongly dentate ; scutellum and postscutel- 

 lum deeply impressed down middle ; middle segment with a well- 

 developed medial surface above where it is rugoso-punctate, sides 

 with strong punctures becoming obsolete basally, concavity with 

 bordering ridge not well developed; carina of first segment not 

 sharp, though strong, bordered posteriorly by a series of small 

 fovese, but the segment has no smooth areas as in allied species, and 

 is marked dorsally by strong, separated punctures, its length from 

 the carina to apex is barely equal to half its width at apex; second 




62 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



segment almost smooth at base, the punctures becoming strouger 

 toward apex where they are quite deep, the apical margin not 

 reflexed, but is depressed; third dorsal more closely punctured; first 

 joint of medial tarsi somewhat sinuous; wings subhyaline. darker 

 along costa and in marginal cell. Length <S mm. 



Chapada (December). Two specimens. The yellow spots on, 

 behind, and beneath the tegulie are wanting in one example. The 

 carinated, deeply pimclured clypeus, sulcus between ocelli, deeply 

 impressed scutellum, together with the mesially dark clypeu.s and 

 I>eculiar spotting of prouotum, ea.sily distinguish this species. 



Odynerus rufosuffasus n- sp. 



i. — Black: mandibles, pmnotum, raesopleurse above, and 

 tegulse, rufous; antennae reddish -testaceous, darker above; cl\-peus, 

 longitudinal line on front, spot at base of antennse, a large one 

 almost filling the eye-emarginations, line on cheeks above, fore 

 margin of pronotum obscurely, line on scutellum, dot on tegulse at 

 base, and line at apex of segments 1-5, yellow (these latter lines 

 sometimes obscure or wanting on segments 3-5); fore legs entirely, 

 the othei-s from the base (or beyond) of femora, reddish -testaceous. 

 Head with the vertex elevated so that when viewed from the side it 

 appears subangulate above ; punctures of the fi'ont large, well- 

 separated, though not very deep, those on the occiput much closer 

 and coarser, esjiecially medially; two large tubercles are situated 

 between the hind ocelli; in the eye-emarginations the surface seems 

 smooth and except for a series of fovese bordering the orbit of the 

 eve there; clypeus broader than long, convex, a]>parently smooth, 

 with an unusually deep and narrow emargination at apex; flagel- 

 lum clavate ; thorax with the pimctures much coarser than on head, 

 esjiecially on dorsulum ; pronotum cristate, sharply dentate laterally ; 

 scutellum deeply impressed ; postscutellum large, fully half as long 

 as scutellum, rugoso-punctate ; middle segment with a well-devel- 

 oped dorsal surface mesially, where it is also emargiuate, rugoso- 

 puuctate as far as sides where the punctures are large and shallow, 

 almost forming a reticulation, concavity margined by a rim; first 

 abdominal segment with fairly strong punctures, the a«ual carina 

 sharp, bordered jiosteriorly by fovea;, and in about the middle of 

 the segment there is another more obtuse carina or ridge, somewhat 

 sinuous, and not entirely reaching the sides ; second segment with 

 finer punctures which become stronger toward the apical margin. 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 63 



which is iKit reflexed ; wings fusco-hyaline, darkest anteriorly. 

 Length (i mm. 



Var. a. — Head, except the usual yellow marks, aud a black spot 

 including ocelli, rufous; only segments 1 aud 2 yellow at apex. 



Var. b. — Rufous color absent on the parts indicated in the de- 

 scription except the tegulie; clypeus except base, and antennje 

 abov^e, black ; border of concavity of middle segment, aud mandi- 

 bles more or less, yellow. 



Con-mba (April). Three specimens. 



Odynerus relativus n. sp. 



?. — A closely allied species to 0. rufosuffusus ; in coloration it 

 differs by the absence of rufous from the pronotum, etc. , and the yel- 

 low marks are more extended ; clypeus yellow basally, otherwise light 

 rufous or black; frontal line united with spot at base of antennae; 

 a broad yellow line traversing the pronotum; mandibles in greater 

 part, a variable spot under tegulse, margin of concavity of middle 

 segment, and segments 1-5 distinctly at apex, yellow ; hind margin 

 of pronotum yellow-testaceous; punctuation coarser perhaj)s than 

 in rufosuffu-nLs and on the thorax the pimctures are larger, shallower 

 and more .separated ; clypeus with a rather broad triangular emar- 

 gination ; orbit of the eye in the emargination not margined by 

 fovese ; pronotum acutely dentate, the crista curving backward 

 much more than in rufoniffiisus ; a single large tubercle between 

 hind ocelli. Length 7 mm. 



Corumba (April). One example. 

 Odynerus praeoox Sauss. 



Eight females, and a large series of males. Chapada (April^ 

 September to November) ; Corumba and Pedra Branca in April ; 

 Santarem. The banding of the dorsal segments beyond the .second 

 may be present or absent, and the flagellum beneath varies from en- 

 tirely black to rufous. Odynerus zonatus Sauss. is probably a 

 variety of prcecox. 



Odynerus nasidens Latr. 



One specimen (9). Chapada (September). 



Odynerus brevithorax Sauss. 



A female specimen from Chapada (April). 



Odynerus (Odynerus) oorumbae n. sp. 



?. — Black; rather densely sericeous with pale brownish pile, the 

 pubescence of front pale; scape and pedicellum beneath, and teeth 




64 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



of elypeus, reddish; narrow line, broadly interrupted luediallv, on 

 fore and hind margins of pronotum, spot on mandibles l^asally, ou 

 teguhe anteriorly, narrower line ou postscutellum, a narrow line on 

 each side of the vertical face of middle segment, small spot at tips 

 of femoi-a, Hue ou fore tibiae anteriorly, a broad fascia (brighter in 

 color) ou apical margins of segments 2-5, and the apical segment 

 entirely, yellow. Head strongly punctured, most closely on front; 

 elypeus about as long as broad, cordate, striato-])uiictate, medially 

 with two widely separated tubercles, at apex bideutate, or triangu- 

 larly emarginate ; pronotum with strong, deep, punctures, shari^ly 

 margined anteriorly, the lateral angles obtuse, uot dentate ; punc- 

 tures of doi-sulum and scutellum less strong, the latter subquadi-ate, 

 large, convex ; postscutellum entire ; middle segment, with the 

 dorso-lateral surfaces with very large, though rather shallow, punc- 

 tures, the posterior depressed surface transversely striate, liordered 

 above on each side by a sharp ridge which terminates in a small 

 tooth on the lateral angles; the apical portions of the segments 

 strongly piuietured except the second ventral, which is punctured 

 throughout ; wings fusco-hyaliue, brown iu costal cell, uer\Tires 

 brownish. Length 1-3 mm. 



Co rumba f April). One .specimen. 

 Odynerus (Odynerusi chapadse n. sii. 



?. — Black ; with sericeous pale brownish pile, especially ou abdo- 

 men, the pubescence of front black ; mandibles reddish apically ; 

 .spot on inner orbit near clj-peus, on mandibles basally, the posterior 

 margin of pronotum, line ou postscutellum, and one on apical 

 margin of segmeuts 1-6, yellow ; that on segment 1 narrowest ; 

 teguhe black at i)a.se, with a brown medial spot, and margined 

 externally with yellow; the tips of femora obscurely yellow. Head 

 strongly i)unctured, more clo.sely on fmut; elypeus about as long 

 as broad, striato-punctate (except l)asally, where there are .separated 

 punctures), with two rather strong, widely .separated, polished 

 tubercles, the apex with two rather widely .separated teeth, there 

 being but a feeble eniargination between them ; thorax above with 

 large separated punctures, tho.«e ou dorsulum anteriorly clcsest; 

 pronotum sharply margined anteriorly, not dentate; scutellum with 

 a longitudnial medial raised line; jxist-scu tell urn with a .serrated 

 crista; middle segment with the dorsal surfaces rugoso-punctate, 

 sides with large shallow punctures, the concave surface more finely 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 65 



striate than in corumbce, bordered above by a ridge terminating at 

 the postero-lateral angles which are obtuse ; abdomen rather dis- 

 tinctly punctured throughout, especially beneath, except the last 

 dorsal which has microscopic punctures ; wings yellowish-ferruginous 

 basally as far as stigma, the veins of the same area similarly col- 

 ored, those beyond including stigma brownish, marginal cell more 

 or less fuscoas. Length 13 mm. 



Chapada (February, October). Two specimens. \ 



Odynerus (Odynerus) sericeus n. sp. 



9. — Black; with dense sericeous pile, especially on abdomen; 

 apex of clypeas, spot on inner orljits near clypeus, on mandibles 

 basally, fore and hind margin of pronotum, line on postscutellum, 

 irregular lines on middle segment bordering the concavity above 

 at either side, tips of femora obscui-ely, line on fore tibise inter- 

 nally, and spot on tegulse at base, yellow ; abdomen entirely black ; 

 tarsi testaceous. Head strongly punctured, but less so than in 

 chapada, the punctures of front rather close; clypeus about as 

 broad as long, closely punctured, with two elongate, polished tuber- 

 cles medially, strongly bideutate apically, roundly emargiuate 

 between teeth ; the thorax is quite similar to cJiapadce, but on the 

 whole the punctuation is not so coarse, and the postscutellar cri.sta 

 is feebler; striaj of concavity of middle segment stronger; abdo- 

 men distinctly punctured throughout; wings subhyaline stained with 

 fuscous along costa, nervures black. Length 12 mm. 



Chapada (March). One specimen. 



Odynerns (Stenodynerus) serratus n. sp. 



c?. — Black; with sericeous yello^v-brown pile; triangular spot on 

 mandibles basally, two dots at base of antennae, scape beneath, line 

 on medial tibiie, and a broad fascia at apex of segments 2-6, the 

 seventh entirely, yellow; tegidse with a testaceous spot. Form 

 elongate; head strongly punctured, the punctures smaller and 

 fewer on occiput; chiiens a little longer than broad, with large, 

 shallow punctures, Ijroadly emarginate, or, in other words, with two 

 large widely separated teeth ; thorax coarsely punctured ; scutellum 

 slisjhtly impressed down middle; dorsal surface of middle segment 

 longer than postscutellum, rugoso-punctate, armed posteriorly with 

 a large, serrated crest, which is broken medially; posterior surface 

 of middle segment smooth, polished, strongly concave; sides with 




66 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



large puuctures, the postero-lateral angles furnished with a proces-s; 

 abdomen fasiform, the first segment transversely carinated or fur- 

 rowed, but bearing a slight longitudinal furrow above, with strong, 

 rather even pimctures which are much less coarse than those of 

 thorax; second dorsal segment with a medial prominence, the punc- 

 tures quite coarse apically; remaining dorsals closely and coarsely 

 punctured, especially apically; ventrals with large sparse punc- 

 tures; wings flavo-liyaline, darker on apical half, nervures testa- 

 ceous. Length 11 mm. 



C'onnnba (April). One specimen. The first segment beai"s 

 above close to ajMcal margin a tooth-like projection, which may be 

 a malformation. Other specimens are needed to verify this. 

 Odynerus 'Stenodynerus) gnseus n- sp. 



9. — Black; abdomen and sides of middle .segment thinly pale 

 sericeous; short line on inner orbits near clypeus, line on mandibles 

 basally, sometimes two spots on postscutellum, a line bordering pos- 

 terior surface of middle segment, yellow; legs testaceous brown, 

 fore tarsi lighter apically ; tegulte with a testaceous spot medially. 

 Form elongate, head strongly punctured, those on front largest, 

 becoming smaller toward occiput; clypeus with large shallow \ninc- 

 tures, a little longer than broad, broadly emarginate at apex; thorax 

 strongly punctured, those on dorsulum and scutellum well separ- 

 ated, tho.se on m&«opleuraj not confluent; dorsal surface of middle 

 segment rugose, in length medially about e(]ual to the po.«tscutel- 

 lum, with a medially emarginate crista, posterior surface concave, 

 polished, ajiically with a few transvei-se stria?, postero-lateral angles 

 strongly dentate; abilomeu beyond first segment closely, though 

 distinctly, jjuuctured, the fii-st with stronger, separated )junctures, 

 which become spai-ser anteriorly ; second dorsal apically, and remain- 

 ing .segment,-' strongly i)iinctured; second dor-^al medially with an 

 elongate, polished tubercle; wings fuscous on basal two-thirds, re- 

 mainder subhyaline, nervures black; stigma brown. Length V2 mm. 



d. — Form and coloration similar to female, the punctuation per- 

 haps a little coarser; clypeus more angularly einarginat-e, the lateral 

 angles therefore more acute; flagellmn elongate, hooked at tip, the 

 last joint slightly curved; seen from above the first joint of flagel- 

 lum is scarcely one-third longer than the second. I>ength l"i- 

 13 mm. 



Chapada (:\[arch); Corumba (April). Two female and two 

 male specimens. 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF THILADELPHIA. 67 



Odynems (Stenodynerus) subapicalis n. sp. 



?. — Brownisli-black ; scarcely pilose, the abdomen with short 

 sparse pale hairs; sides of elypeiis, dot between antennse, scape 

 beneath, spot on mandibles basally, and a line on fore tibise, 

 yellow; mandibles medially, posterior margin of pronotum, tegulse, 

 tips of femora, and apical margin of segments 2-(i, testaceous ; 

 wings black, especially in costal cell, apical third (except the 

 narrow fuscous apex) whitish. Form elongate; punctuation 

 coarser than in 0. griseus ; clypeus pyriform, distinctly longer 

 than broad, angularly emarginate at apex; middle segment much 

 as in griseus, the crista serrated, the strife of apical portion of 

 concavity oblique on each side, the postero-lateral angles obtusely 

 dentate; abdomen practically as in griseus. Length 13-15 mm. 



d- — Colored as in the female, except that the clypeus is almost 

 entirely yellow, the sculpture coarser; flagclluni elongate, longer 

 than in griseus, hooked at tip, apical joint curved, first joint (from 

 above) fully one-third longer than second; clypeus smaller than in 

 ?, not much longer than broad. Length 14 mm. 



Mararu and Chapada (April); Rio de Janeiro (November); 

 Santarera. Six female, one male specimens. 



Synoptic Table of New Species describfd in this paper. 



1. First abdominal segment carinated transversely, ... 2 

 First abdominal segment not carinated, 22 



2. First dorsal segment with a distinct longitudinal furrow; body 



deep black, with or without rather indistinct yellow mark- 

 ings; wings fuscous, apical half jmle, . apicipennis ? c?. 

 First dorsal segment not furrowed longitudinally, or faintly 

 so, 3 



3. Middle segment without a ridge encircling the depression or 



concavity, not or scarcely produced at base behind postscu- 



tellum (without horizontal surface), 4 



Middle segment with a more or less developed ridge encircling 

 the concavity, 8 



4. Apical margin of second dor.-^al segment entire, .... 5 

 Apical margin oi second dorsal segment sharply angidate or 



dentate medially, 7 



5. Only two abdominal fascia; pronotum rufous, [' 



convolutus ¥ c?. 

 All the segments fasciate; pronotum not rufous, ... (J 



6. First segment behind carina longer than broad, no transver.-e 



smooth area behind carin!\ svffusus d. 




68 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



First segment behind carina broader than long, a broad trans- 

 verse smooth area behind carina; clypeus sharply emarginate, 



areatus c?. 



7. Abdomen with deep punctures; tegula; reddish; a yellow spot 



under wing, the latter yellowish along costa, 



dentifornm ? c?- 



Abdomen with fine, nuich shallower punctures; teguloe black; 



no spot under wing, the latter dark, . . abdominalis ?. 



8. Middle segment without a horizontal surface, .... 9 

 j\Iiddle segment with a more or less develoj^ed horizontal 



surface, 10 



9. Head and pronotum orange ; all abdominal segments fasciate, 



fulvimaciihis ?. 

 Head and pronotum red ; unly two abdominal fascia, 



nifimaenhis ? c?. 



10. Vertex not elevated, as usual, 11 



Vertex strongly elevated, strongly tuberculate near the ocelli ; 



tirst abdominal segment with an additional carina, . . 21 



11. Horizontal surface of middle segment very short, almost want- 



ing medially; form graceful, Po/yiia-like, .... 12 

 Horizontal surface well developed, 13 



12. Segments 1 and 2 fasciate; second ventral segment trans- 



versely prominent l)efore ba.<e, cdripes ? cf. 



All the segments fasciate ; second ventral segment not promi- 

 nent bsisally, rather evenly convex, . . conjunctus ? d"'. 



13. Second segment distinctly reflexed at apex, . reflexm ? c?. 

 Second .segment not or but slightly reflexed, . . . . 14 



14. Wings yellowish, paler apicullv; seirments broadly fasciate, 



HerbeHii ? cf. 



Wings subhyaline, 15 



l.T. First abdominal segment without a transveree, depre-ssed area 



behind tlie carina on each side, 10 



First abdominal .segment with a transvei'se, dejjre.ssed area 



behind the carina 07i each side 17 



16. Clyi>eus pyriform, bicarinate in ?, the.se carince ending in two 

 sharp teeth (not carinate in i^, shorter and l)identate); 

 abdomen shining, with strong scparatcil ])unctures; scutel- 

 lum not yellow, male coxa; dentate above basally, 



eoxalis ? d". 



Clyijeus cordate, not carinate, with a not deej) triangular emar- 



gination; abdomen subopaque, finely and closely pimctured; 



scutellum with yellow line, cordafus ?. 



17.' Females, l^^ 



: Males, . . . ni 



1<S. C'lvpeus convex, puiictureil, with a strong carina on each side 

 ending apically in a tuoth; dorsulum witli a yellow spot 

 before .«cutellum dorsonotalus ?. 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELrHIA. 69 



.Clypeus flat, longitudinally striated; dorsulum not spotted, 



sfnatiis ?. 



19. Antenure longer than head and thorax united, slender, 



longicornis cT. 



Antennse shorter than head and thorax, the flagellum more or 



less clavate, 20 



20. Clypeus black medially, deeply punctured, with a carina on 



each side, ending in a sharp tooth, . . . inusifatus c?. 

 Clypeus entirely yellow, not carinate, the apical teeth blunt, 



striatus c?. 



21. Prouotum and legs in part (sometimes the head) reddish, 



rufosuffums ? . 

 Pronotum, legs and head black, maculated with paler, 



relativus ?. 



22. Form broad and short, the thorax subquadrate; middle seg- 



ment without a horizontal surface medially, .... 23 



Form elongate; thorax elongate (dorsulum longer than broad); 



middle segment with a well-developed horizontal surface 



bearing a serrated crista, 25 



23. Abdomen with yellow fascia, 24 



Abdomen innuaculate, with dense sericeous gray pile (wings 



blackish along costa; prouotum with the fore and hind 

 margin, and postscutellum broadly, pale yellow), 



serieem ?. 



24. First segment of abdomen margined with yellow ; wings yellow- 



ferruginous along costa, the costal and subcostal nervures 

 of the same color; medial clj-jjeal tubercles smooth and 



.shining, chapadai ?. 



Fii-st segment of abdomen not fasciate; wings fuscous along 

 costa, brownish in costal cell, the costal and subcostal ner- 

 vures dark; medial clypeal tubercles feeble, not shining, 



corumbw 9. 



25. Abdominal segments 2 and following broadly fasciate with 



bright yellow; wings yellow-ferruginous, dusky apically; 

 pilosity of head and thorax pertaining to golden, 



serratus ^. 

 Alidomen entirely dark, 26 



26. Wings black, apical third pale, followed by a fuscous apical 



margin; clypeus pyriform, nuich longer than broad in the 



? ; thorax immaculate, mhapicalis 9 cT. 



Wings dark fuscous mingled with paler on ba-sal half, the 

 remainder subhyaliue; clypeus rather hexagoual, not much 

 longer than broad; postscutellum and middle segment, or 

 the latter oidy, more or less 3'ellow; abdomen with griseus 

 pile, griseus 9 c?. 




70 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OE 



[Feb., 



THE FRONS IN BEMBIDIUM, WITH DESCRIPTIONS OF NEW SPECIES. 

 BY F. E. BLAISDELL, M.D. 



There is often connected with the recognition and placing of 

 species in the systematic scheme difficulties which become perplexing 

 and annoying, not so much from the nature of the characters as 

 from the instability or tendency to variation in such characters 

 among sjDecies naturally closely allied. 



I was forcibly impressed by these facts while working over the 

 species of Bemhidlum contained in the collections of Mr. Charles 

 Fuchs, Dr. E. C. Van Dyke, and my own. It is the jjerplexities 

 that arose while dealing with the frontal charactei-s that have 

 brought about this attempt at their elucidation. I wish to express 

 my thanks to the iibin-e-inentioned gentlemen for the use of material 



and also for many sug- 

 gestions. 



That part of the 

 c e ]) h a 1 i c exoskeleton 

 constituting the inter- 

 ocular region is called 

 the fronf. It is bounded 

 above by the vertex, 

 from which it is sepa- 

 rated by an imaginary 

 line; below by the epis- 

 toma, with wliich it is 

 connate, the line of 

 union being marked by 

 the frontal suture; lat- 



Ilead of Bemhidium suspectum. — 1. Lab- 

 rum ; 2. Epistoiiiu ; 3. Froiis ; 4. Vertex ; 5. 

 Frontal sulcus (internal of Ilayward); 6. 

 Frontal costa or ridge ; 7. Antcnor supra- 

 orbital setigerous puncture within fovea ; 8. 



Posterior supraorbital setigerous puncture, endlv bv the eves, in 

 fovea not developed ; 9. Kye ; 10. Plate in " ' , . j .' 



front of eye; 11. Ocular bead, ocular sulcus front of w li i c h is a 



just within ; 12. Qasal joint of antenna ; 13. 

 Anterior lateral process of frons ; 14. Frontal 

 suture ; l.i. Mandibular scrobe, bearini; a 

 seta arising from a |iuncture. (Magnified 28.5 

 diameters.) 



troug chitinized plate 



supiHjrting the anteu- 



iia?. The union of this 



plate with the side of 



the frons in fi'dul of llie eve forms the frontal ridge. 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 71 



In form the frons is siibquadrate, with its anterior lateral angles 

 l)roduced and embracing the obliquely truncated basal angles of the 

 epistoma. 



Laterally, where the frons meets the eye, the margin Ijecomes 

 raised into a fine convex ridge or ocular bead, which is continuous 

 anteriorly with the frontal ridge, posteriorly it winds around the 

 eye to become evanescent. 



Immediately within this bead is a tine sulcus or stria parallel to 

 it, usually well marked and varying in the degree of its width and 

 depth, and conveniently termed the ocular stria. The ocular beads 

 and strise are common to all Bembidia. 



In all species of Bmnbidiwn there are developed other frontal 

 ridges and sulci; these reach their minimum of development in 

 some species of the rariegatum group, where the ocular strife are 

 bounded internally by rather broad convex longitudinal ridges, 

 which in tui'ii ai'e limited internally by broad shallow grooves — the 

 internal sulci of Hayward — which pass more or less gradually into 

 the plane or convex central area of the frons. 



This condition is defined by Mr. Hayward in his paper treating 

 of the species of Bembidium, Group XII {variegatuni) , as " Frontal 

 grooves single, parallel or rarely veiy feebly convergent. ' ' In some 

 individuals these grooves and ridges are quite obsolete. 



In the different groups of species these grooves and ridges may 

 be parallel to or converge toward the median line. 



Generally the supraorbital setigerous punctures are placed in 

 small pit-like depressions or foveae upon the convexity of the ridges. 

 In some groups it is by the extension and coalescence in a longitu- 

 dinal direction of the fovese bearing the punctures that this single 

 broad, convex ridge becomes divided into two lateral moieties, form- 

 ing as a result two i-idges separated by a sulcus — the external sulcus 

 of Hayward — the setigerous punctures now being found in the 

 bottom of this groove. 



This condition reaches its maxinnun development in B. sulcatum. 



As long as the ridges and grooves are parallel to the median line 

 of the insect, they do vot extend on to the epLstoma (PI. Ill, figs. 

 2, 5 and 8, representative of Groups I to XIII, XV and XVIII 

 to XXI of Mr. Hayward' s paper); with couvergency the exten- 

 sion on to the epistoma does take place (figs. 1, 3, 4, 6, 7 and 9, 

 representative of Groups XIV, XVI and X\'II of the above- 




72 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



mentioned paper). Observe that this only occurs in those species 

 with double frontal grooves. 



The following is an explanation of the figures given in the ])la(e, 

 which are camera lucida tracings, the details being filled in as accu- 

 rately as possible. I believe them to be true representations of the 

 specimens from which they were made, the accuracy centering u])<)n 

 the ridges and grooves, and are representative of Jlr. Hayward's 

 groups, as follows : 



Figure 8, Group XII, B. vile, drawn from a si)ccimen collected 

 at San Diego, Cal. From its general facies it is usually placed in 

 collections with individuals of Groups XIV or XVII. An exam- 

 ination of the frons and other group characters will readilv dis- 

 tinguish it. 



"Frontal grooves single, parallel." The single ridge of either 

 side terminating anteriorly at apex of the frontal process of the 

 corresponding side, not passing on to the epistoma, posteriorly 

 becoming attenuated and disappearing near the posterior border of 

 the eye and bearing upon its convexity the supraorbital .sctigerous 

 pimctures ; ocular bead well developed ; ocular siUcus narrow and 

 normal ; internal grooves normal. 



Fig. 2, Group XIII, B. bifasciaium, drawn from a large speci- 

 men collected at Poway, San Diego county, Cal. 



"Frontal grooves single, parallel." Frons broad, feebly convex, 

 disposition of grooves and ridges as in Group XII. Anterior 

 supraorbital punctures in large shallow fovete. Ocular bead and 

 sulcus well developed and normal. 



Fig. 5, Group XV, B. affine, drawn from a specimen collected 

 in Virginia. 



"Frontal grooves slightly oblique, the outer interrupted." The 

 obliijuity being so sligjit and the ridges not extending on to the 

 epistoma, I believe it to be next in the evolutionary .'^cries. 



The anterior fovete have extended backward and forward, sej)ar- 

 atiug the two lateral moieties of the single ridges, forming the fir.«t 

 rudiments of the interru])tcd external groove of Hayward. The 

 dispo.-'ition of the sculi)turing is nearly as in Group XII — i. e., no 

 extension on to the epistoma; ocular bead and sulcus fine but other- 

 wise normal. 



Figs. .J and <i, (iruup XIV, B. ^-maculatum and B. dubitans. 

 The former drawn from a specimen collected in Ma.«sachusetts ; the 

 latter from a sjiecimeii collected near Portland, Ore. 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 73 



"Frontal grooves double, oblique, the outer interrupted.'' With 

 the obliquity an extension has taken place on to the epistoma. The 

 external groove is reaUy not developed, on account of the non- 

 extension of the fovese. The setigerous punctures of the epistoma 

 are within the anterior extremities of the developing external 

 grooves, while the other pimctures are within fovese, as in figs. 2 and 

 8, the extension of the fovere being not developed. Ocular bead 

 and sulcus normal. 



Figs. 4 and 9, Group XVII, B. angulij'erum and J5. assimile. 

 The former drawn from a specimen in the Van Dyke collection, 

 and collected in Lake county, Cal. ; the latter species from a speci- 

 men taken in Ohio. 



"Frontal grooves vei-y dee]), strongly convergent, double, the inner 

 groove long, the outer shorter and often feebly marked." Ridges 

 strongly developed and verj' convex. Here is a stronger tendency 

 for the fovete to coalesce ; it can be seen that the fovese on epistoma 

 are elongate, the splitting of the ridges being more evident. The 

 internal groove is strongly developed and entire ; ocular beads not 

 developed at margins of the eyes, but present on outer borders of 

 frontal processes ; ocular sulcus feeble but normal. 



Figs. 7 and 1, Group XVI, B. concinnum n. sp. and B. sulca- 

 tum. The former collected by Dr. Van Dyke in Eldorado county, 

 Cal. ; the latter species was taken in the Caraboo District, B. C. , 

 and is in the Fuchs collection. 



"Frontal grooves double, scarcely (to moderately) converging, the 

 Olden- entire " (or nearly so). 



I have placed concinnum in the present group on accoimt of the 

 frontal grooves moderately converging, and also from the greater 

 tendency toward the development of the external groove, by the 

 appearance of intermediate fovese between those of the pimctures of 

 the epistoma and those of the anterior supraorbital punctures. 

 The internal groove is well developed ; ocular bead and sulcus 

 normal. 



In sulcatum the full development is reached — the internal and 

 external grooves are entire ; the internal ridges are entire, the 

 external being bifurcate to receive the posterior supraorbital pimc- 

 tures. Ocular bead entire ; the ocular sidcus broad and normal in 

 extent. 




74 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



Bembidium obscuripenne n sp. 



Elongate, very moderatelj' convex ; color black and shining, 

 with an obscure brownish humeral spot extending backward to near 

 middle third ; a similar spot at junction of middle and posterior 

 thirds. 



Head slightly wider than tliorax at ajjex ; eyes large ; antenna; 

 about one-half as long as body. 



Prothorax about one-third wider than long, slightly wider at base 

 than at apex ; the latter slightly cmarginate in circular arc ; median 

 line entire, moderately fine ; transverse impressions distinct, the 

 posterior deeper; basal mipressions rugulose, broad, deep and bi- 

 striate ; sides arcuate in anterior three-fourths, feebly sinuate iu 

 jX)sterior one-fourtii, with margins narrowly reflexed, marginal 

 sulcus moderately broad; basal angles rectangular, carinate, carina 

 nearly parallel to median line. 



Elytra oblAng-ovate, about one-half wider than thora.x, one-half 

 longer than wide, striate, stria; moderately inipres.'^ed, entire or 

 feebly imprc^setl at apex, strongly punctate to onc-fourtli distance 

 from apex ; third stria with first dorsal puncture a sliglit distance 

 posterior to basal one-fourth, .second a slight distance anterior to 

 basal fourth, intervals fhit. Legs and abdomen dark piceous to 

 black. Length .")-■").."> mm. 



Tarsi. — First two joints of anterior tarsi of male ililaieil ; Ki-st 

 subquadrate with inner anterior angle prolonged as usual, second 

 moderately dilated. 



Diagnostic characters. — Closely related to longulum. Ba.siil angles 

 of thorax rectangular, stri;e subentire, more convex form and pres- 

 ence of brownish elytral .spots, with many other characters if Mr. 

 Hay ward' 8 measurements of longtilum are correct. 



Two specimens collected in Oregon. Fuclis' collection. 

 Bembidinm hnmboldtensis n. sp. 



Form elongate, .-somewhat roba*t, convex; color coal black; sur- 

 face very smooth and shining. 



Head as wide as tlioiiix at aix-x ; antenna; less than one-half the 

 length of the body. 



Prothoiiix convex, about one-foui'th wider than long, length 

 eijual to ba.^e, as wide or .^lightly wider at base than a])ex, surface 

 smooth; apex truncate; ba.-^e evenly and feebly arcuate; median 

 line distinct, sliirhtlv abl)reviated before and iiehind ; transvei-se 




1902.] NAIUKAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 75 



impressions feeble ; basal impressions moderately deep and rather 

 sharply defined, unistriate ; sides narrowly rcflexed, arcuate in 

 front, oblique and straight behind; hind angles obtuse, not 

 rounded, and without trace of carina ; smooth and convex between 

 basal impressions and margins. 



Elytra oblong- oval, one-half wider than thorax, .slightly more 

 than one-half longer than wide, striate; striaj abbreviated, except 

 the first and sometimes the second, seventh represented at tip by a 

 short groove, strongly and rather coarsely j)imctate to posterior 

 third, then impunctate ; third strite with first dorsal puncture one- 

 third from base, the second about one-third from apex; intervals 

 nearly flat. Beneath and femora black, tibire and tarsi slightly 

 piceous. Length 4 mm. 



Diagnostic characters. — Eesembles recticolle in general form and 

 should follow it ia our lists. 



Keadily recognized by the form of the basal impressions, absence 

 of carinije, shorter antennae, and the elytral strise being obsolete 

 and impunctate in basal third. 



Described from a series of twelve specimens collected in Hum- 

 boldt coimty, Cal., by Dr. Van' Dyke. 



Bembidium vandykei "• sp. 



Form rather broad, elongate, scarcely depressed; color uigro- 

 piceous, more or le.'^s tinged with bluish, especially the head and 

 pi'onotum ; surface smooth and shining. 



Head slightly wider than thorax at apex ; antennae reaching to 

 first dorsal punctures of elytra. 



Prothorax about one-third wider than loug, length equal to width 

 of base, base equal to apex ; base very feebly arcuate ; apex slightly 

 emarginate ; median line impressed, abbreviated in front, extending 

 nearly to base; transverse impressions distinct, anterior angulate 

 and feeble; basal impressions moderately broad, deep and bistriate ; 

 sides arcuate in anterior three-fourths, sinuate behind, nearly par- 

 allel for a short distance in front of hind angles, which are rectan- 

 gular and feebly cariuate. 



Elytra about one-half wider than thorax and about one-half 

 longer than wide, oblong-ovate, finely striate ; strise entire, impunc- 

 tate, fifth strongly grooved at tip; third stria with first dorsal punc- 

 ture one-eighth of the length of elytra in front of middle, the 

 second one-fourth from apex ; intervals flat. 




76 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



First two joiuts of anterior tarsi dilated ; the first oblong witli 

 inner angle feebly produced, the second feebly dilated with inner 

 angle large and produced. Legs piceous. Length 5-6.3 mm. 



Diagnostic charaderg. — Its resemblance to planatum; prothorax 

 ■wider in comjiarison to its length ; impiinctate strise ; smaller size ; 

 more slender form and slightly more convex elytra. Should follow 

 planatum in the list. Named from a series of specimens collected 

 in Mendocino county, Cal., by Dr. Edwin C. ^'an Dyke. 



Bembidium falsum n. sp. 



Form oblong-ovate, elongate, depressed ; color nigro-pieeous, 

 faintly tinged with bluL«h ; surface smooth and more or less extremely 

 finely reticulate. 



Head about as wide as thorax at middle ; auteunre reaching to 

 anterior dorsal pimctures. 



Prothorax one-fifth to one-fourth of its width wider than long ; 

 slightly narrower at base than apex ; base about equal to the length, 

 and very feebly arcuate ; apex slightly emarginate ; median line 

 impressed at middle and subentire ; transverse impressions distinct, 

 the anterior feeble ; basal impre.ssious moderately broad, deep, 

 bistriate; sides arcuate in anterior three-fourths, sinuate behind, 

 parallel for a short distance in front of basal angles, which are rec- 

 angular and feebly carinate. 



P^lytra about one-half wider than thorax, and about two-thirds 

 longer than wide, oblong, sides nearly parallel ; strongly striate ; 

 strise entire, impunctatc, fifth strongly grooved at tip; third stria 

 with first dorsal pvuicture just slightly in front of the middle, the 

 second one-fourth from apex ; intervals convex. Legs piceous ; 

 anterior (arsi with first two joints dilated ; the first oblong with 

 inner angle produced, the second transverse, feebly dilated with 

 inner angle large and produced. Length 5.5-6 mm. 



Diagnostic characters. — Resembles planiusctilttm, from which it 

 may be recognized by its larger head, elongate and parallel form, 

 and deeper elytral strise. It can precede the latter fpecies in our 

 lists. 



Described from a series of specimens taken in Mendocino county, 

 Cal., by Dr. Van Dyke. 

 Bembidium suspectum u. sp. 



Form niodenitely broad, rather convex; color nigro-a;neous; 

 elytra piceo-seneous with 'paler spots arranged as follows : a small 




1902.] NATURAL SCIEXCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 77 



basal spot occupying interval.* four and five, a small oval spot iu 

 third interval just iu advance of first dorsal puncture, similar spots 

 in intervals four, five and six, increasing in length from ;vithiu out- 

 ward, another large spot extending from sixth stria to margin, 

 occupying about the secoud one-fourth. A large spot conunencing 

 at fourth stria opposite posterior dorsal puncture and extending to 

 the margin, and an apical pale spot; these pale areas may vary as 

 to size and degree of coalescence. 



Head and thorax alutaceous ; elytra sculptured with exceedingly 

 minute transverse rugulEe. 



Head very slightly wider than thorax at apex ; antennae one-half 

 as long as body. 



Prothorax subquadrale, one-half wider than long; base slightly 

 wider than apex and feebly arcuate at middle ; apex slightly emar- 

 ginate ; median line distinct, abbreviated in front, obsoletely so 

 behind ; transverse impressions well marked ; basal impression.s 

 broad and deep, bLstriate ; sides evenly arcuate in anterior three- 

 fourths, subsiuuate iu basal fourth; hind angles rectangular, 

 strongly carinate with cariuw parallel to the median line. 



Elytra oblong-oval, one-half wider than thorax, and scarcely one- 

 third longer than wide; deeply striate; striie entire, distinctly 

 punctate to posterior dorsal puncture, then more feebly, l)ecomiug 

 impunctate near apex, seventh slightly grooved at tip ; intervals 

 flat, the third with first dorsal puncture one-third from base, the 

 second one-fourth from apex. Beneath tinged with greenish, 

 shining; legs nigro-piceous, tinged with green. Length 6.2 mm. 



Diagnostic characters. — Near approximatum ; recognized by its 

 larger size and broader form ; elytra oblong-oval ; basal angles of 

 thorax rectangular. Should precede the above species in our lists. 



Tyjie collected at Oregon City, Ore., on the shore of the Wil- 

 lamette river. Several specimens. 



Bembidium fuohsii n. sp. 



Form elongate, moderately convex. Color black. Antennje, 

 tibise and tarsi piceous ; surface bright and shining, slightly seneous, 

 verj' finely and faintly reticulate. 



Head wider than thorax at apex ; eyes large ; antennse nearly 

 one-half the length of the body. 



Prothorax subquadrate, about one-half wider than long; base 

 slightly narrower than apex, both truncate ; sides arcuate in anterior 




78 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



three-fourthi^, faiutly siuuate behind ; marginal bead fine, narrowly 

 reflexed ; disk very moderately convex, somewhat transversely 

 rugose iu basal half; median line fine, abbreviated before and 

 behind ; anterior transverse impressions feeble, the posterior more 

 marked ; basal impressions broad, moderately shallow, bistriate ; 

 hind angles siibobtuse, carinate, earing parallel to the margin. 



Elytra scarcely one-half wider than thorax, about one-half 

 longer than wide, oblong-oval ; deeply striate ; striie entire, more 

 finely impressed toward tip, fifth grooved at tip, strongly punctate 

 to near apex, then obsoletely so ; intervals just jierceptibly convex, 

 the third with the first dorsal ]nmcture just jxisterior to basal foiirtli, 

 the .second about one-third from apex. Anterior tai^si of male 

 vnth first two joints dilated, first strongly so, quadrate, inner ante- 

 rior angle feebly prolonged, strongly convex doi-sally ; second mod- 

 erately dilated, inner anterior angle moderately pi'oduced. I^ength 

 3.2 mm. 



Diagnostic characters. — C"lo.-«?]y related to timldum, from which 

 it can be recognized by its coal-black color, deeply striate elytra, 

 and strongly pmietate strife. 



Described from three specimens in the Fuchs, Van Dyke and my 

 own collections. 



Type collected at Blue Lakes, Alpine county, Cal. ; co-tyjx?s in 

 Eldorado and Placer counties, t"al. 



Bembidium concinnum n. ^^p. 



Form miidtiatt'ly rol)ust. Color piceous ; surface sliining, finely 

 reticulate, with a very faint bluish reflection. 



Head wider than thorax at apex : antenna; nearly one-half as 

 long as body. Pnithorax subcjuadraie, rather more than one-third 

 wider than long; ba.se equal to apex, the latter trimcate iu circuhir 

 arc; median line fine but distinct, obsoletely abbreviated in front 

 and behind ; transverse impressions distinct ; sides arcuate in an- 

 terior two-thirds, nearly straight or feebly siuuate and converging in 

 posterior third; margin narrowly reflexed; marginal ajid biu-^d selaj 

 long; ba,sal impressions deep and sharply defined, bistriate; hind 

 angles obtuse, not rounded, carinate ; carinse but slightly divergent 

 from margin. 



Elytra oblong-oval ; one-half wider than thorax, about one-half 

 longer than wide, and widest near middle; .«triate, striae feebly 

 impressed, distinctly punctate to posterior fourth, then obsoletely so 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 79 



to apex, fii-st and second entire, fifth slightly grooved at tip; 

 intervals flat to feebly convex, the third with tirst dorsal puncture 

 a little more than one-third from base, the second three-eighths from 

 apex. Beneath blackish. Legs nifo-piceoas. Length 3. 5 mm. 



Anterior tarsi of male with first two joints dilated, the first 

 strongly so, slightly oblong ; second but feebly dilated, inner ante- 

 rior angle not noticeably produced ; other joints stouter than usual. 

 Female tarsi with joiuts stouter than usual. 



Diagnostic characters. — The scarcely converging frontal grooves, 

 the outer nearly entire, and extension on to the epistoma, with 

 dorsal punctures two, situated on the third interval, place this species 

 in Group XVI of Mr. Hay ward's classification. .Suflieient has 

 been stated in this paper to render this species easily separable from 

 sitlcatiim, the only other member of the grouji. 



Described from several specimens collected in Eldorado county, 

 Cal., by my friend, Dr. Edwin C Van Dyke. 



All comparative measurements have been made from camera 

 lucida outlines. 



In attempting to give the diagnostic characters, I have confined 

 my remarks merely to the species most closely related to those 

 under consideration, as reference to Mr. Hay ward's synopsis of 

 group characters will aid iu approximately placing any form here 

 described. 



EXPLANATION OF PLATE III. 



Fig. 1. — Bembidium sulcatum. Group XVI (Hayward). 

 Fig. 2. — Bembidium bifasciatuin. Group XIII (Hayward). 

 Fig. 3. — Bembidium 4-mticulatum, Group XIV (Hayward). 

 Fig. 4. — Bembidium anguliferum. Group XVII (Hayward). 

 Fig. 5. — Bembidium affine, Group XV (Hayward). 

 Fig. 6. — Bembidium dubitans, Group XIV (Hayward). 

 Fig. 7. — Bembidium coHcinnum n. sp., Group XVI (Hayward). 

 Fig. 8. — Bembidium vile. Group XII (Haywaid). 

 Fig. ^.—Bembidium assimile. Group XVII (Hayward). 

 Magnified 28.") diameters. 




80 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



SOME BERMUDA OLIGOCHa:TA, WITH A DESCRIPTION OF A 

 NEW SPECIES. 



BY J. PERCY MOORE. 



During two visits to the Bermuda Islands in the summers of 1898 

 and 1901, Prof. A. E. Verrill, while devoting most of his atten- 

 tion to marine zoology, was able to gather a collection of Oligo- 

 chseta which adds materially to our knowledge of the fauna of 

 these islands. The character of the collection and the circum- 

 stances under which it was gathered indicate the probable occur- 

 rence of additional forms. Of the six species hitherto recorded 

 from the Bermudas in several of Beddard's papers, all but one, 

 and that the very common and widely distributed Perichceta bermu- 

 densis Bedd. (Pheretima hawayana (Rosa) ]\Iich.), are repre.^euted 

 in Prof. Verrill's collection. In addition the material includes two 

 species of Pheretima not previously known from the Bermudas, a 

 new species of Enchytrwus and an immature Helodrilus having a 

 combination of characters not known in any hitherto described 

 species, but which is not now characterized becau.se of the lack of 

 suitable material. 

 Enchytraeus marinus sp. dot. 



The alcoholic specimens measure exactly 111 mm. in length and 

 about .7 mm. in greatest diameter. There are 73 somites in the 

 type specimen and 71 in the other, which is crashed at about the 

 middle into two pieces. The prostomium is broadly rounded. 

 Toward the anterior end the length of the .somites is about two-thinls 

 their diameter, while the posterior ones become very short, ai)out 

 cue-quarter their iliameter. The terminal three or four of the 

 latter taper ai)ru])tly to the anas. 



With the exception of somites III and IV, in which there are 

 three, the ventral setse are two per bundle throughout the entire 

 length of the body; but they are absent entirely from I and 

 XII. From II to X, inclusive, the dor-^al bundles contain 3, on 

 all other somites 2 seta;. All setje are nearly straight externally 

 and strongly hooked within the body wall. They are stout, some- 

 what thickened at the middle, and taper to the ends. Those com- 

 posing each bundle are of equal length and thickness. In the 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 81 



ventral buudles the setse increase iu size to somite IV, where they 

 are about oue and one-lialf times as long as on II, and distinctly 

 larger than the dorsal sette of the same somite. This relative size 

 of dorsal and ventral setse continues to at least somite X. 



A small cephalic pore exists between the prostomium and peri- 

 stomium, but other dorsal pores are wanting. The genital pores are, 

 as usual in the family, the male on XII, the female |^j, and the 

 latter sliglitly the more mesiad. The clitellum is undeveloped. No 

 pigment is apparent aupvhere and the blood shows no trace of 

 color in the alcoholic specimens. Prof. Verrill's label describes 

 the living worms' as " wliite. " 



Pepto-uephridia are certainly absent from the example sectioned, 

 and none could be detected iu the type specimen when cleared m 

 glycerine. Couspieuous septal glands are developed on -^1' yn and 

 ^ , and open iu the asual way on the pharyngeal pad. As a re- 

 sult of great development of muscular tissue all of the dissepi- 

 ments between the last septal gland and the testes somite — that is 

 ^^, ^^, -^^ and ^j — are much thickened. 



The spermathecie (fig. 1 ) occupy somite VI, and open to 

 exterior in the furrow yj on a level nearly midway between 

 dorsal and ventral setre- 

 buudles. The duct is 

 a simple thick-walled 

 tube having a lengtli 

 about equal to the flask- 

 shaped ampulla, into 

 the bulbous ba.se of 

 which it opens on the 

 latero-dorsal aspect, 

 from which a striking 

 asymetry of the en- 

 tire organ results. Uni- 

 cellular glands, which 

 are such a conspicuous 

 feature of the sper- 

 mathecal duct of E. 

 albidus, are altogether 

 absent from the exam- 

 ples here described. The ampulla 

 G 



the 

 the 



is regularly flask-shaped, with 




82 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



a nearly spherical base aad a cylindrical neck slightly dilated at its 

 free dorsal extremity. The two parts are of about equal length, 

 the base being about three times, and the neck one and one-half 

 times the diameter of the duct. The ampulla stands vertically by 

 the side of the oesophagiLs, above which the neck rLses. The bul- 

 bous base is in contact with the side of the oesophagus and the con- 

 tiguous tissues of the two are continuous, but whether an actual 

 eomnmnication between the cavities of the two organs exists could 

 not be demonstrated beyond question. A few spermatozoa arc 

 present in the cavities of both ampulla and duct of the specimen 

 sectioned. A lateral view of the right spermatheca is showai in 

 fig. 1, which sufficiently exhibits the general cellular constitution 

 of its walls, and its topographical relation to the cesophagus, which 

 is shown in outline. 



Although its distortion prevents an accurate measurement, tlie 

 sperm funnel appeai-s to be only two and one-half times as long as 

 wide; highly glandular. The vas deferens is coiled and reaches to 

 the posterior end of X\" before returning to the male pore ; it hiis a 

 total estimated length of from six to eight times the funnel. Its 

 two limbs have an equal diameter, which is about one-tenth to one- 

 twelfth of the body at the same point. 



The brain is anteriorly slightly concave, posteriorly nearly straight, 

 with a slight median concavity and feebly prominent postero-lateral 

 lobes. 



Some of the characters used to distinguish E. marinus from the 

 widely ilistributed E. albidus Henle, 1887 (== Halodrillm Uttoralis 

 Verrlll, 1874), are doubtless due to the immaturity of the speci- 

 men.*, but this caunot be true of the absence of the jx'ptD-ui'pliridia, 

 the form of the spermatheca, and the peculiarities of the setse. I 

 Lave repeatedly studied E. albidus at Wood's Hole (where it 

 abounds) and elsewhere, and liave found no connecting variations. 



Prof. Verrill writes that the .species was common in the upper 

 littoral zone, below the tide mark of ordiiiaiy tides, at Coney 

 Island, Uut was not noticed elsewhere. The collection contains 

 two specimens labeled " No. 940, High-water mark, Bermuchi, 

 IMOS." 



Pontodrilus arenas Mich. 



This sjiecies aj)pears to be of common and very general occur- 

 rence at and below high-tide mark. In almost all cases the intes 




1902.] NATUKAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 83 



tine is filled with coarse coral and shell sand, the grains of which 

 are frequently upward of .5 mm. in diameter. The ornamentation 

 on the setae is extremely faint. No. 939, 1898; No. 965, Hungry 

 Bay, April 1.3, 1901 ; No. 96(5, Elbow Bay, March, 1901. 



Pheretima sohmardae (Horst) Mich. 



Prof. Verrill remarks upon the great activity (so characteristic of 

 the genus) of this and the next species. When captured they 

 writhe like active lizards, as a result of which most of the speci- 

 mens are broken in two. They occurred imder stones only in the 

 neighborliood of a house said to be 2.50 years old. The intestines 

 were filled with a very fine reddish earth. P. schmardw has not 

 previously been reported from the Bermudas, and in the West 

 Indian region is known only from the Barbadoes. No. 964, 

 Walsiugham, May .5, 1901; No. 962, 1901. 



Pheretima roderioensis (Grube) Mich. 



This widely distributed species, described by Beddard (under the 

 name of Pericho'ta dycri) from Jamaica, Trinidad, etc., is repre- 

 sented in the collection by a single example from the Bermudas, 

 to which i.slands it is new. A peculiarity of the gizzard of this 

 species appears to have escaped notice. The organ in question 

 occupies somite X and a small part of XI. From near its pos- 

 terior end on each side a stout tapering band or column of muscle 

 arises and passes obliquely caudad to the body wall at the set* line 

 of somite XI. These form powerful retractors and dilators of the 

 gizzard, and may be the remains of the septum -^-, as Beddard 

 has suggested in the case of a somewhat similar structure described 

 by him in P. taprobance, and 

 especially P. bermudensis. A 

 delicate membrane runs from 

 the muscles mesiad and dor- 

 sad to the dorsal blood vessel 

 and appears to be continuous 

 with the peritoneal sheaths of 

 both of these organs. 



The diverticida of the sper- 

 matheca show considerable I ' ^ . 



variation. The folded portion 

 becomes succe.ssiveh' loua-er from before backward and at the same 




84 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



time changes from a -ipirally coiled conditiou to a tortuous folding 

 in one plane. An abnormality of the second spermatheca of the 

 left side is shown in fig. 2, as viewed from behind. The ampulla is 

 divided into two portions, each of which hiis the form, but little 

 more than one-half of the diameter of the normal. Each has a short 

 duct which unites with its fellow into a common one much enlarged 

 at the point of union. One perfectly normal diverticidum springs as 

 usual from the cephalic face of the ampullar duct, but it is diverted 

 to a mesial instead of the usual lateral position. A second much 

 smaller diverticulum arises from the caudal face of the common duct 

 and for about one-third of its blind end is reflected on itself. No. 



961, moi. 



Eudrilus euginse (Kiuberg) Mich. 



Three large examples. No. 936, 1898. 



Onychoohaeta windlei Bedd. 



One small specimen. No. 9()2, 1 901 . 



Eisenia foetida (Sav.1 Mich. 



One specimen of this now cosniopolit^m species. No. 938, 1898. 



Helodrilus (Allolobophorai ohlorotioTis (Sav.) Mich. 



Common. No. 937, 1898; No. 962, 1901; No. 965, Hungry 

 Bay, April 13, 1901, just below high tide. This last record of the 

 label, if correct, is of interest as indicating the occurrence of this 

 species on the littoral zone. Many of the posterior setae of these 

 •specimens are missing, the bundles being reduced in such ca.ses to 

 single .seta. 



Helodrilas sp. 



A very .small Helodrihm, No. !Mi:}, lilOl, could not be deter- 

 mined at all; a larger cxaiiiplo, No. 9til, 1901, while cxliibiting 

 charactei-s of an uiiilescriiied si)ecies, is too immature for satisfac- 

 tory de.scription. 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 85 



structure and development of the thyroid gland in 

 petromyzon. 



by albert m. keese. 

 Introduction. 



The material with which the following work was doi;e was of two, 

 or possibly three, species. The first species was Petromyzon jilaneri, 

 the small lamprey that, in the adult condition, reaches a length of 

 about six inches only. This first lot of material was collected by 

 Dr. R. G. Harrison at Naples. It included stages from the re- 

 cently fertilized egg to the swimming larva, in which the yolk wa.s 

 no longer externally visible and In which the mouth was separated 

 from the pharynx only by a thin partition of cells. This oldest 

 stage was killed foui'teeu days after fertUizatiou. 



The second lot of material was obtained at Ithaca, N. Y. , and 

 probably includes larvae of both P. dorsatus, Wilder (lake lamprey) 

 and P. branchlalis (brook lamprey), as both species are known to 

 spawn in the same nest, and it is impossible to tell to which species 

 the larvse belong. Part of this lot of material was sent me 

 through the courtesy of Prof. S. H. Gage, of Cornell; the rest I 

 myself obtained from one of the ' ' nests " in a stream at Ithaca, 

 New York. 



I wish to express here my gratitude to my friend, Dr. Ross G. 

 Harrison, for placmg at my disposal the material from which the 

 younger stages of development were made out; to Prof. Simon H. 

 Gage for the really considerable amount of trouble he took in aiding 

 one who was, at the time, wholly unknown to him, to obtain the 

 older stages for this work; and to Prof. Brooks for much valuable 

 aid and many suggestions during the progress of the work. 



I obtained the best results by killing in corrosive acetic (95 cc. 

 saturated solution of HgClj aiid .') cc. glacial acetic acid), harden- 

 ing in the usual alcohols and staining in toio with borax carmine, 

 and on the slide with Lyon's Blue. The greate.st technical diffi- 

 culty experienced was in obtaining good preparations of the long 




86 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



gland cells. Embryos were fixed in a number of ways, but in no 

 single case was a good preparation of tbe gland cells obtained. 

 Maceration was tried also, but with no success. Some difficidty was 

 experienced also in sectioning the earlier stages, on accoimt of the 

 mass of yolk, but with later stages there was no trouble of this 

 kind. The figures referred to are on Plates IV-VII. 



All the sections were drawn with a camera, though in most cases 

 the details had to be filled in from a series of sections. 



Development of the Thykoid Gland in Petromyzon. 



(11th day.) — The thyroid begins, in Petromyzon, as a simple pit 

 or groove, pushed (Uit from the ventral wall of tliat part of the 

 digestive cavity which may be called the pharynx, though at this 

 time there are no gill openings connecting this cavity with the 

 exterior. 



This groove, or beginning thyroid, was first found, in P. planeri, 

 in an embryo eleven days old — that is to say, eleven days after 

 fertiliziition. 



The external appearance of this embryo is seen in fig. la. At 

 this stage there is no external indication of gill-slits, the mouth is 

 deeply pitted in, though not yet broken through, and the yolk still 

 forms a large, round mass at the posterior end of the embryo. As 

 is seen by the figure, the embiyo is distinctly retort -shaped, the 

 yolk-mass forming the body of the retort, while the neck of the 

 retort is rejjrescnted by the head and neck regions of the embryo. 

 The stomodffium is seen as a pit in the head region, and, at a 

 slightly ohler stage, the first external indication of gill-clefts is seen 

 jis a series of shallow transverse grooves in the narrowest ]iart of 

 the neck of the flask. 



The thyroid groove, at its anterior end, is broad and deep, so 

 that, with its thick walls, it is half as large, in cross section, as the 

 part of the pharynx from which it is derived. Its lateral walls, 

 throughout its length, are very thick, and are composed of a single 

 row of greatly elongated cells, each cell with a large nucleus near its 

 wntre. The ventral Mall is usually nuuli tliinner and is composed 

 of shorter, even cubical, cells. 



As the groove is followed posteriorly, it is found to become j/radu- 

 ally narrower and also .somewhat more sliallow until it finally dis- 

 appears. 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 87 



Fig. If, though representing a slightly older stage, may be taken 

 to represent a transverse section through the middle of the gland 

 very shortly after its first appearance as an evagiuation from the 

 floor of the pharynx (phar.). The thick lateral walls and much 

 thinner floor of the thyroid are shown in this section. Anterior to 

 the point represented in this figure, the thyroid groove is somewhat 

 wider, while posterior to this point it is slightly narrower and gradu- 

 ally becomes more and more shallow until it finally disappears. 



The thyroid at this stage, then, is a groove, relatively 

 larger, perhaps, than at any other time, and opening along its 

 entire length iuto the pharynx. 



ri2th day). — On the twelfth day the thyroid begins to be shut 

 off from the pharynx by the growth of two horizontal partitions, 

 one rooting over the anterior end, the other rooting over the poste- 

 rior end, of the thyroid groove. 



These partitions or septa are shown, at a slightly later stage, in 

 fig. 3, which is a sagittal section through the anterior end of a 

 thirteen-day embryo, cutting the thyroid almost medially and pass- 

 ing slightly to the side of the medial line of the mouth invagina- 

 tion. The anterior septum (a.h.l.) is seen to be further advanced 

 than the posterior one, which is just beginning (p.h.L). In this 

 figure the cells of the thyroid evagination are stippled to distinguish 

 them from the remaining cells of the pharyngeal wall. That the 

 section represented in fig. 3 did not cut the thyroid in au exact 

 median plane is shown by the much elongated cells which form 

 the floor of the groove. The section was probably somewhat 

 oblique. The body wall of the embryo is shown in outline 

 (b.w.), and the first indication of gill clefts is seen as two or three 

 evaginatious of the phar^-ux, dorsal and anterior to the thyroid 

 (t'.c. ). A transverse section of the twelve-day embryo, through 

 the anterior end of the thyroid (through the line ab m fig. 3), 

 shows that it is now a closed cavity (fig. lb) with thick walls, 

 Iving just beneath the pharynx and between two large blood ves- 

 sels. Throughout the mesoblast that surrounds the thyroid are 

 scattered numerous yolk granules, the mesoblast cells themselves 

 being rounded and very different in shape from what they will be 

 in later stages. The cells in the floor of the pharynx are not so 

 sharply differentiated from those in the roof of the thyroid as is 

 indicated in this figure. The cells of the body wall are very simi- 




88 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



lar in size and shape to those lining this part of tlie phaiynx. 

 Fig. Ic is a section cut posterior to lig. 1 b (through the line a'h' in 

 fig. 3) and passes through the part of the thp-oid which is still 

 open to the pharynx. In fig. 1 b only the cells of the thyroid are 

 dotted, while iu tig. le the cells of both thjToid and pharynx are 

 dotted. The only change since the eleven -day stage is the begin- 

 ning of the horizontal septa, the anterior end of the thyroid being 

 converted into a closed tube by the backward growth of the 

 anterior septum. 



The septa seem to be formed by a rapid growth at the i)oint.s 

 where the most anterior and the most iwsterior epithelial cells of 

 the thyroid merge into those of the pharynx, causing the.se two pro- 

 jections to be puslied out, the upper layer of each septum apparently 

 being derived from the pharyngeal epithelium, the lower from 

 what may be called the epithelium of the thyroid (fig. 3). The 

 thyroid, though closed iu anteriorly, is still entirely open above for 

 a greater part of its length. As is seen in fig. \h, the doi-sal wall 

 of the thyroid is closely pressed against the ventral wall of the 

 pharynx, so that it is difficult to distinguish tlie two walls. 



It will be interesting to compare the thyroid of Fetromyzon at this 

 stage with the thyroid at a corresiwndiug stage iu Ambliinioma 

 (figs. Xa and «6). A section through the anterior cud of the thv- 

 roid of Petromyzon (fig. M) shows it to be a closed cavity, while 

 posteriorly it is still an open groove (fig. Ic). In Amblt/doma, on 

 the other hand, the oi)eu groove is anterior to the clo.sed part of the 

 glaiul, the closing in taking place, ai>parently, in a postero-anterior 

 ■ direction. 



(13th and Ulhdays. ) — At about this time the lateral walls of 

 the thyroid, especially toward the anterior end, become greatly 

 thickened by the increase in length of the columnar cells of which 

 they are composed. At the .same time an invagination of these 

 thickened walls occurs as a longitudbal groove, pusliing inward and 

 upward from the outside of the gland (fig. 2b, i.v.y. This invag- 

 ination becomes still more marked iu later stages, and extentls 

 further in a posterior direction. 



At this stage the extreme anterior end of the thyix>id is forked, 

 so that a section through this region would show two distinct cavi- 

 ties with thickened lateral an<l ventral walls (fig. 2a;. This is 

 plainly seen in .«ectious and in a wax reconstruction of the thyroid 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 89 



made from a series of sections of this stage. " These two divisious 

 of the anterior end of the gland are separated b)' a vertical parti- 

 tion of mesoblast. The two parts of the thyroid are more widely 

 separated by the mesoblast than they will be at later stages, but at 

 this stage the separation extends only a short distance from the 

 anterior end of the gland. The thyroid is here not so closely 

 pressed agaiiist the phar^nix as was the case in previous sections, 

 being separated from the wall of the pharynx by a collection of 

 mesoblast cells. The cavity of each half of the gland is crescentic 

 in cross section, and on the left side is seen the beginning of the 

 lateral invagination. 



The thyroid cavity is closed in, now, for about two-fifths of its 

 entire length, both anteriorly and posteriorly, so that its opening 

 into the pharynx is reduced to a slit extending only one-fifth the 

 length of the gland. 



Sections through the thyroid, anterior to this opening (fig. 26) 

 but posterior to the divided portion of the anterior end, show the 

 cavitv to be considerably complicated by the thickening and folding 

 of the walls. The simple, circular cavity of the preceding stage 

 (fig. 16) is now reduced, by the growth and invagination of the 

 walls, to a narrow vertical slit with lateral diverticula above and 

 below, giving the cavity, in cross section, somewhat the shape of a 

 distorted letter T. The dorsal wall of this cavity (tig. 26, d.l.) is 

 comparatively thin, being composed of a single layer of rather 

 short columnar cells, and is what Dohrn calls the " Decklamelle. " 

 The ventral wall is also comparatively thin, and shows m the 

 centre, at the extreme anterior end of the unpaired cavity, a slight 

 upward projection (fig. 26, m.L), which would seem to be the 

 first indication of the medial longitudinal partition that will later 

 divide the gland into two lateral parts. According to Dohrn, this 

 medial lamella is formed as far back as the opening of the gland, 

 before the lateral invagination takes place, but in my material this 

 is certainly not the case, as is sho^vn in fig. 26. 



The lateral invaginations extend posteriorly to a point a little 

 behind the anterior edge of the slit-like opeumg into the pharynx, 

 fig. 2c being from a section that cut through the extreme posterior 

 part of the invagination in the right side, but was too far posterior 

 to cut that of the left side, either because the section was somewhat 

 oblique or because the right invagination had proceeded further 

 than'the left. 




90 PROCEEDI^JGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



It k well to get a clear idea of these lateral iuvagiualious iu the 

 simple eonditiou represented in fig. 26, as the more complicated 

 later stages will thus be more easily understood. Were the lateral 

 walls straightened out, thus obliterating the lateral invaginations, 

 the thyroid would be reduced to a more or less cylindrical body, as 

 it was in fig. 16, though with a much larger cavity. The long 

 cells of the lateral walls are divided by the invagination into two 

 groups, which become more and more distinct as development pro- 

 ceeds. In fig. 26 one of these groups, on each side, lies between 

 the invagination and the perpendicular part of the ca\'ity of the 

 gland ; the other group lies between the invagination and the dorsal, 

 horizontal part of the cavity (compare fig. oe). The cavity of the 

 thyroid, between thLs point and the posterior edge of (he opening 

 into the pharynx, is simply a deep and narrow groove slightly 

 expanded at the bottom, where a narrow space is left, on either 

 side, between the thick lateral and thin ventral walls (fig. 2(1). 

 Along this groove-like part of the thjToid the cells of the pharynx 

 and gland pass quite insensibly into one another, and are not sharplv 

 distinguishable, as might be supposed from the stippling in figs. '2c 

 and 2d. The portion of the thyroid po.sterior to the opening is a 

 simple tube-like structure, nearly circular in outline and with a 

 vertical slit-like cavity (fig. 2d). Tiie walls here are of nearly 

 the same thickness on all sides, and lie in contact with the epithe- 

 lium of the jiharynx al)i)vc and with that of the bo<lv wall below: 

 in fact, throughout almost the entire length of the gland this is tiie 

 case. On each side of the thyroid, througlidut its entire length, lies 

 a ])seudol)ranchial artery (art.) (" Spritzlocharterie " of Dohrn). 

 There is no in<licati(in, as yet, of tiie ciliated grooves. " Psoudo- 

 branchialrinne. " 



The stages of development which follow were obtained from 

 Ithaca, and the larvte, it will be remembered, were jwssibly of two 

 species, neither of which was identical with the material from 

 Xaple.«, P. plnneri. 



The next change that is uoticetl iu the thyroid gland is the tlcvel- 

 opment of the median vertical lamella (fig. 4o, m.L), which i.s 

 formed by the invagination of the thin dorsal and ventral walls, 

 beginning at the anterior end and gradually extending posteriorly 

 until, at this stage, the gland is .separated into two distinct lateral 

 parts, from the anterior end about half-way to the opening to the 




1902.] XATUEAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 91 



pharynx. Fig 4a i.s a section through the extreme posterior edge 

 of the partition, showing the invagination of dorsal and ventral 

 walls. The once simple tube is complicated now by four invagina- 

 tions of its walls. The two that have been spoken of as the " lat- 

 eral invaginations " (i.v.), pushing into the thick side walls in a 

 dorso-median direction, are not veiy different from what we saw- 

 in fig. 2b. The other two push toward each other from the roof 

 and floor of the gland (fig. 4a, vi. I. ) until they meet and fuse, 

 thus separating the thyroid into two distinct lateral halves. At a 

 later stage of development mesoblast cells press in between these 

 halves to form a thin mesoblast ic partition. At this stage the 

 mesoblast is composed still of closely packed, rounded cells, and 

 contains a few scattered yolk granides. It is at this time, also, that 

 the first trace of the ciliated grooves (the " Pseudobranchial- 

 rinne ' ' ) makes its appearance as a groove in the floor of the 

 pharynx, extending anteriorly a short distance from the opening of 

 the gland (fig. 4b, v.c.g.). At this stage no cilia could be seen, 

 and the groove was much wider than it was at later stages of de- 

 velopment. The cavity of the gland, in the region represented in 

 fig. 46, still retains, in cross section, its resemblance to the letter T. 

 This section is anterior to the duct, but posterior to the median 

 lamella represented in fig. 4a. The other changes noticed at this 

 stage are the closing of the slit-like opening into the pharynx until 

 only a small circular canal is left (no section through this opening 

 is represented), the thinning of what we shall hereafter call, after 

 Dohrn, the "cover" cells (" Decklamelle " ) (fig. 46, d.L), and 

 the thickening and deeper invagination of the ' ' gland ' ' cells 

 (" Drusenlamelle " ) (fig. 46, g.l.). The part of the gland pos- 

 terior to what we may call now the ' ' duct ' ' remains about as in 

 the preceding stage (fig. 4e). 



The larvfe of the next stage were about 9 mm. long, and showed 

 all the outward characteristics of the normal Ammocaetes. An 

 outline drawing, from life, of the side of the head is shown in fig. 

 5a. Being drawn imder the microscope with a camera, the rela- 

 tive size and position of the thyroid are accurately shown. The 

 gland is seen to extend from the first to the fifth gill-arch, and to 

 be closely wedged in between the pharynx above and the body 

 wall below. The upwardly curved euds did not show in the living 

 animal, except as indicated by the upward bending of the longitu- 




92 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



dinal grooves ; ueilher did the duct leading to the phai-\Tix, so these 

 features were omitted in this illiL<tratiou. The longiludiual grooves 

 are exaggerated somewhat in the drawing. The gland, in life, had 

 a faiutl)' yellow color, while the rest of the larv£e, except the 

 blood, was nearly white, with numerous manyd)rauched, black 

 pigment spots resembling very complicated nerve cells. The living 

 larva of this age is quite transparent, .so that the pulsation of the 

 heart and of the velum (c. ) and the circulation of the blood 

 through the branchial arches can Vje seen easily under a low power. 

 The thyroid, being rather more opaque than the rest of the animal, 

 shows vei-y plainly by contrast. In the figure the outline-s of the 

 pharynx and the positions of the arches are shown by the broad 

 dotted lines. The characteristic hood-like projection over the 

 mouth is also shown. With the exception of the eye (e), no 

 attempt has been made to represent any of the other organs of the 

 larva. 



A ventral view of the larva of this age shows the thyroid as a 

 clearly defined elongated body, l.^'ing against the ventral wall of 

 the pharrax. 



By this time great advances have been made in the development 

 of the thyroid and of the ciliated grooves. Fig. oi is a transverse 

 section a short distance anterior to the thyroid. It shows the spinal 

 cord (.9jo.e.), notochord (cA.), body wall (b.iv.), etc., in outline, 

 while the cell structure of the pharynx (pkar.) is shown. This 

 section, on the right side, passes through tlie ciliated groove at the 

 point (I) where its anteriorly directed ventral branch {v.c.f/., on 

 the left) turns dorsalward to run posteriorly as the doi"sal groove 

 (d.c.f/., ou the left). On the left of the .section tlie two branches 

 of the groove are distinct a-; a dorsal (d.c.g. ) and ventral (v. e.g.} 

 groove. The.se grooves are lined with cells which are much higher 

 and more columnar than the cells of the rest of tlie pharyngeal 

 wall, .-^o that they are easily followed, by sections, throughout their 

 course. Their cilia are short and indistinct. 



The mesoblast (»ies. ) surrounding the thyroid and pharynx is 

 now (juite different from that of earlier stages, being composed of 

 scattereil angular cells instead of closely packed, more or le.ss oval 

 cells. The yolk has di.sappsared. The outline of the pharynx is 

 represented in a somewhat diagrammatic manner, though it was 

 traced as accurately as possible under a camera. 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 9S 



Fig. 5e shows the wide separation of the dorsal aud ventral 

 branches of the ciliated grooves, so that the two dorsal branches are 

 now quite near together at the mid-dorsal line (d.c.g.), while the 

 two ventral brandies also are seen to approach each other as they 

 pass posteriorly along the walls of the pharynx {v. e.g.). The 

 dorsal grooves continue to approach each other gradually as they 

 are followed posteriorly until they are separated only by a median 

 ridge of ciliated columnar cells (fig. 5d). At a point a short dis- 

 tance anterior to the thyroid, the grooves disappear and the medial 

 ridge continues posteriorly, though diminished in height, as the 

 ci^ia^ed dorsal ridge (fig. 5^-, c.d.r.). This ridge continues to the 

 extreme posterior end of the pharynx aud enters the oesophagus, of 

 which it forms, for some dLstauce, tue ciliated dorsal wall. 



The ventral grooves, as has been said, approach the mid-ventral 

 line of the pharyngeal wall until they unite aud lead into the duct 

 of the gland (figs. 5e-i). Posterior to the opening into the thyroid 

 they are continued on the floor of the pharynx as a single, shallow, 

 median groove (figs, iij-k), which finally disappears, posterior to 

 the thyroid, as a groove, but continues to the o&sophagus as a ridge 

 of thickened epithelium. In an embryo cut sagitally, so that the 

 pharj-nx may be laid open and exposed from above, the ciliated 

 grooves may be seen easily with the naked eye, and still more 

 plainly with a lens, but no indication of grooves or bands running 

 from the dorsal ciliated ridge to the ventral groove is to be made 

 out. A transverse section through one of the gill-arches showed 

 the presence of very fine short cilia, but their arrangement could 

 not be made out. This arrangement of ciliated grooves is quite 

 different from that described by Willey in his mterestiug book, 

 Anphioxm and the Ancestry of the Vertebndes. On p. 168 he 

 says: " The.se grooves curve forward and upward in front of the 

 gill-clefts (after the obliteration of the first gill-pouches), and then 

 proceed backward on either side of the dorsal middle line of the 

 pharynx as far as the commencement of the cesophagus. Here 

 they appear to curve downward again, and, uniting together, extend 

 forward as a median ventral groove to the posterior lip of the hypo- 

 branchial aperture. ' ' 



The arrangement of the ciliated bands and grooves, then, is 

 briefly as follows: on the floor of the pharynx, beginning at or 

 near the opening of the oesophagus, is a ridge of epithelium on 




94 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



which no cilia coiild be made out. This ridge, after extending 

 forward for a very short distance, becomes changed gradually into 

 a shallow, median, ciliated groove that continues without change 

 to the duct of the thyroid. Just anterior to the duct, the ventral 

 ciliated groove splits into two grooves, which separate gradually 

 on the floor of the phar^x, and near the extreme anterior end 

 pass upward on each side to the roof of the pharyngeal ca\'ity. 

 The grooves then converge as tliey pass backward until, at a point 

 anterior to the front end of the thyroid, they unite again and 

 form the median, ciliated dorsal ridge which extends backward to 

 the oesophagus, of which it forms, for a short distance, the dorsal 

 wall. 



In the gland itself the changes begun in j)revious stages have 

 been carried now much further. The cover cells (figs, oe-m, d.l.) 

 (Decklamelle) have sliortened until they form a sort of mem- 

 brane, while the gland cells (figs. 5f-m, g.l.) have greatly elon- 

 gated and tlieir nuclei now lie near one end. The gland is com- 

 pletely divided by the median lamella (figs. be-h. m. I. ) from the 

 anterior end as far back as the duct. From the duct to the jioste- 

 rior end (figs, oi-k, m.l.), the lamella is simply a partition rising 

 from the floor of the gland but not reaching to the roof, its upper 

 edge being swollen for a considerable distance posterior to the duct 

 (figs, bi-k, m.l.'). The lateral invagination is very deep and 

 important in determining the structure of the organ. Near the 

 anterior end (fig. 5e, i.v.) it has not changed greatly from the con- 

 dition in which it was at the last stage, but as we pass to sections 

 further back we find that the invagination forms a considerable 

 cavity in each lateral half of the gland (figs. 5f-h, i.v.), and 

 posterior to the duct the gland, in cross section, is seen to be divided 

 into three distinct parts, a central and two lateral divisions (figs. 

 bi-k). In the posterior part of the invagination mesoblast cells 

 are often seen (fig. bi, mes.). 



The most extensive and complicated changes that Jiave taken 

 place are those of the gland cells (g.l.). The first ainonir the 

 changes to be mentioned is the separation of these cells into two 

 groups, the ciliated cells and gland cells proi>er. The nicth(Kl of 

 this .separation is partly shown in fig. be. As seen in this section, 

 the nuclei of the gland cells apjwar to lia\t' arranged themselves 

 near the periphery of a somewhat oval ma.-v« of cells and to have 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 95 



been pushed iu, at oue poiut, by the lateral mvaginatioii (i.v.). 

 On the medial side of this oval ma>?s of cells, lying parallel to the 

 median lamella (»(./.), is seen a double row of nuclei, the lateral 

 row {n.g.l.) apparently having been separated from the medial row 

 (n.f.L). The nuclei in the medial row become the nuclei of short 

 columnar cells (iig. 5/, /./.), while the lateral nuclei remain in 

 the gland cells proper (fig. 5/, gJ). A considerable space is formed 

 between the ciliated cells and the gland cells, which becomes con- 

 nected with the lateral invagination (figs. 5/-/t, i.r.) by the separa- 

 tion in the centre (at the end of the line n.g.l. , fig. oe) of the 

 nuclei of the lateral row (n.g.l.), and the joining of these separated 

 ends with the nuclei of the adjacent sides of the invaginated double 

 row of nuclei; the cells above (dorsal to) the Vine n.gl. (fig. 5e) 

 joining with those above the invagination {(.v.), and the cells 

 below (ventral to) n.g.l. joining the cells on the lower side of the 

 invagination. In other words, the space formed between the 

 ciliated cells and the gland cells becomes connected with the exte- 

 rior by the breaking through (between the short parallel lines at 

 the end of the reference line 7i.g.l., fig. 5e) of the lateral invagina- 

 tion. The nuclei that are connected by the short black luies, 

 referred to above, will lie hereafter in adjacent gland cells. 



The result of these changes is not only the formation of a dis- 

 tinct layer of columnar ciliated cells (fig. 5/,/./.), but also the 

 formation of four groups of gland cells in each half of the thyroid. 

 Of these four groups of cells, two are large and have reached 

 nearly their full differentiation at this stage (figs. 5e-j, g.r.) ; the 

 other two (figs. 5e-/, g.r'.) are still very small and undeveloped, 

 though even when fully developed they remain somewhat smaller 

 than the first formed groups. The large groups of gland cells are 

 somewhat fan-shaped, when seen in cro.ss section, and are composed 

 of greatly elongated conical cells, whose nuclei lie at their bases. 



On account of the great difficulty in obtaining good preparations 

 of the.se gland cells, as before mentioned, many series of sections 

 hwl 1o be studied before any conclusion coiUd be reached as to the 

 minute structure of the cell groups. The pointed ends of the cells 

 are directed toward the u])eniug (o. ) of the cell group, and, in the 

 later stages at least, are usually obscured Ijy the mass of secretion 

 which fills any space tliere may be iu the centre of the cell group. 

 In practically every instance there was a small protuberance at the 




96 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



opening of the cell group (fig. og and fig. 6^, p.s), which apjieared 

 to be a small mas? of secretion which had been forced out of the 

 cell group by the contraction of the gland at fixation. There was 

 no secretion found in any other part of the gland, which fact 

 could be explained only by supposing that the secretion wa.-; carried 

 away a.s fast as it was formed, by the cilia. As seen in fig. HI (a 

 camera drawing of a section of the next stage, magnified 92-> 

 diameters), the opening of the cell group is covered over by a 

 membrane which is coutiuuoiL? with the membrane from which the 

 cilia arise. As this membrane, in any given group, may be fol- 

 lowed without a break through a long series of .■sections and the 

 protuberance of secreted matter seen in each section, it is difiicult 

 to see how the secretion gets on the outer side of the membrane, 

 unless it pas.«es through a serie.* of holes in the membrane that, 

 when filled iis they are with secretion, are too minute to be seen, 

 even under a magnification of 1200 diametei-s. 



In fig. tU may be seen, just under the basement membrane, a 

 number of triangular condensations of the cell substance on eacli 

 side of the opening. These inverted cones were seen in a number 

 fif sections that happened to be stained in just the proper way, but 

 no explanation of their presence suggested itself. 



Roughly speaking, each half of the thyroid may be considered 

 to be made up essentially of two large an<l two small cylinders of 

 glaml cells, each cylinder extending the whole length of the glaml 

 (fig. .56, f/r. and^r'. ). The small cylinders (gr'.) are as yet so 

 rudimentary that they can .scarcely be recognized a-s such, but, as 

 has been said, tiicy will acquire later the .same structure a.< is now 

 possessed by the larger cylinders (grr. ). Extending the entire 

 length of eacii cylinder or cell group is a narrow band of minute 

 holes, mentioned above (fig. 'if, o., and fig. til, »«.), through 

 which the secretion of the gland cells escajws into the ciliated cham- 

 bers and thence, through the duct, to the ciliated grooves of the 

 pharynx. 



The remaining .structural details of the gland may be understood 

 from a de.-cription of the duct, which is .somewhat complicated. 

 As ha.s been described above, the two ventral brauche.« of the 

 ciliated grooves nni along the flfK)r of the pharynx, getting closer 

 and clo.ser together, until they unite and form a single deep groove 

 (figs. He-h, v.c.g.). In fig. •");* the ventral ciliated grooves (v.c.ij. ) 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 97 



have almost united, being separated only by a wedge-shaped por- 

 tion of the pharyngeal floor. They are deep, and so narrow that 

 there would seem to be but little room for ciliary action. The cells 

 lining the grooves are here somewhat shorter than the other cells of 

 the pharynx, whereas more anterior sections showed tlie reveree to 

 be the case, as was mentioned above (fig. 5b-d). 



The single ciliated chamber (cousideiiug one side, only, of the 

 bilaterally symmetrical gland) forms about three-fourths of a circle 

 (m.e.h.) and is bounded by the cover cells (d.l.) on the one hand, 

 and by the ciliated cells (f.l.) on the other. The cover cells have 

 become so nuich flattened that they form a mere membrane, and 

 their nuclei are pressed far apart. The ciliated cells are of a typical 

 ciliated columnar form, and are exposed, at their ciliated ends, to 

 the cavity that has been described as the ciliated chamber, and, at 

 their basal ends, to the space that is now a part of the lateral invag- 

 ination (i.v.). Several large blood vessels are seen, surrounded 

 by the angular mesoblast cells, and on each side of the thyroid, 

 lying close to the body wall, is a large longitudinal muscle. Before 

 reaching the point at which it opens into the thyroid, the groove 

 spreads out at the bottom (fig. bg, p.) and resembles, in cross 

 section, an inverted letter T. The cross arms of the T turn upward 

 as they pass further backward (fig. 5A, ^j. ) until they are closely 

 pressed against the vertical part of the T. The way in which this 

 curious groove opens finally into the thyroid is interesting. A 

 short distance back of the point represented in fig. 5/), the cells of 

 the ciliated and cover layers are interrupted at about the point 

 marked b.r. (fig. 5/i), and at the same time the side pouch (p.) 

 of the groove {v. e.g.) becomes separated from the groove itself 

 along the line x-y (fig. 5/i). By the union now of the medial 

 end (1.) of the ciliated layer with the end (1'.) of the adjacent 

 side of the groove, and at the same time by the union of ends 2 

 with 2' and 3 with 3', we have a condition represented in fig. 5r. 

 The end (4) of the cover layer unites with its fellow of the opposite 

 side of the gland to form the swollen upper edge of the partition 

 (m.L, fig. 5i) mentioned above. By a careful comparison of figs. 

 5h and 5i, the relationships just described will become clear. 



In fig. 5/ then we have represented a section passing directly 

 through the duct of the gland, and we see that the secretion from 

 the two groups of gland cells {g.r.) passes out of the gland in two 

 7 




98 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



ways : that from the ventro-median group passes into the central 

 ciliated chamber (m. c. h. ) and thence directly out through the duct 

 (v.c.g.), whUe the secretion from the dorso-lateral group has to 

 pass into the duct through the side pouch (p.). Anterior to the 

 duct, the ciliated chambers (m.c.h. and l.c.h.) being one (fig. 5/, 

 m.c.h.), the secretion from the different groups of cells may, of 

 course, pass out either way. The duct is inclined, somewhat, in a 

 postero-ventral direction and Lb lined with ciliated columnar cells. 

 The point at the end of the line 1 (fig. f^i) indicates the place of 

 imion of the medial part (fig. 5h, 1. ) of the ciliated layer with the 

 adjacent side (1'.) of the deep ciliated groove (v. e.g.). Reference 

 line 2 shows where the lateral part (2) of the cover laver joined 

 the outer side (2') of the ciliated pouch (p.). Reference line 3 

 indicates the point at wliich tlie lateral part (3) of the ciliated 

 layer joined the medial side (3') of the ciliated pouch (p.). m.L 

 is the median lamella formed by the union of the medial portions 

 of the cover layers (d.l.) of tlie two parts of the gland; from this 

 point it is an incomplete partition all the way to tlie posterior cud 

 of the gland. 



■■ Posterior to the duct (fig. 5/), the medial portion (1.) of the 

 ciliated layer joins its fellow of the opposite side, above the median 

 lamella {in. I.), while the outer part (3) of this layer remains con- 

 tinuous with the outer part of the cover layer. By this arrange- 

 ment the lateral invagimition (i.v. ) apparently completely separates 

 a lateral from the central part of the gland, as has been mentioned 

 before, and the mesoblast cells are found between the two divisions 

 (me.'i. ). This is shown also in fig. 5»i, which is a horizontal section 

 of the entire gland. A section at this plane gives the impression 

 that the lateral invagination (i.v.) almost completely separates tlie 

 lateral from the central portion of the gland, but of course if tlie 

 section were cut nearer to the dorsal surface of the gland, the 

 lateral portion would be seen to be joined to the central portion 

 anterior to the duct (to the left of jn.l.), as has been .«een in figs. 

 !)e—h. Fig. 5m shows the extent to which the gland is completely 

 divided by the partition (m.l.), and also the position of the gland 

 in relation to the gill-arches (v. a., 2-5). The cilia are omitted from 

 lliis figure. In all tlie .sections posterior to the duct, lis .«een in fig. 

 5/, there are three distinct ciliated chambers. The median ciliated 

 chamber (m.c.h.), occupying the central division of the gland, is 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPniA. 99 



triangular iu cross section, and is partially divided into two chambers 

 by the median lamella (mJ. ) which rises from the middle of its 

 ventral wall. Into each half of the median ciliated chamber 

 empty one of the large and one of the small groups or cylinders of 

 gland cells. The smaller cell group, as has been said, at this stage 

 is still in a rudimentary condition. 



The lateral ciliated chamber (l.c.h.) is crescentic in cross sec- 

 tion, the lesser curve of the crescent being formed by the ciliated 

 cells, the greater curve by the cover cells. Into the lateral chamber 

 empty a large and a small group of gland cells. Dorsal to the 

 gland are the two large blood vessels (art. ) and close above these the 

 floor of the pharynx, with the ventral ciliated groove {v. e.g.), now 

 much diminished in depth. Fig. bk Ls of a section near the poste- 

 rior end of the gland, passing through the upcurved portion. The 

 reference line m.e.h. begms in the cavity of this upwardly bent 

 part, which is cut through at the point where it is continuous with 

 the central ciliated chamber of the gland. A section just anterior 

 to this woidd show tliis upper ^pace as a separate cavity. Dohrn 

 says this marked bend at the posterior end, as well as the less 

 marked one at the anterior end, is caused by the growth of the 

 gland being more rapid than tliat of the space in which it is en- 

 closed. 



The lateral portions of the glantl at the point represented iu fig. 

 bk are very small. The central partition (m.l.) Ls still present, as 

 seen in fig. r>I, and imperfectly at )«.;'. in fig. .5m.. The ventral 

 groove (v.c.r/.) and dorsal ridge (c.d.r.) are also very plainly seen 

 in fig. ok. The blood vessels are followed easily and are asually 

 filled witli large nucleated corpuscles. In the last two sections 

 (figs. .5i and 5/) the thyroid has diminished iu size, and the 

 arrangement of the gland cells into the four groups can be recog- 

 nized no longer. The lateral ciliated chamber is reduced to a 

 nearly circular cavity, and tlie ventral ciliated groove Ls flattening 

 out gradually, preparatory to changing to the low ridge mentioned 

 in the description of the system of ciliated grooves. The ciliated 

 dorsal ridge is very prominent and partially embraces the aorta iu 

 its folds. The cell structure of the body wall and of most of the 

 pharyngeal wall is omitted in the.se as in most of the preceding 

 figures. 



In the following and last stage of development (figs. 6a-k), Iho 




100 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



glaud has apparently reached its ■greatest complexity, its tlie ouly 

 noticeable change from the preceding and much younger stage, 

 except increase in size, is the remarkable coiling of the jwsterior 

 end of the gland, caused, Doliru says, as has been preWously men- 

 tioned, by the longitudinal growth of the gland being more rapid 

 than the space in which i1 is enclosed. The larva from which this 

 stage was taken had reached a length of about 15 cm., and a cir- 

 cumference of about 2.. 5 cm. in the region of the thyroid. 



Fig. ()/ is a ventral view of the anterior end of a larva of this 

 stage, the ventral integument (b.w.) of which has been dissected 

 along the mid-ventral line and drawn to each side, so as to expose 

 the thvroid gland (thy. ). The figure shows the shape of the gland 

 as seen from the ventral side, and also its relative size and position. 

 The cartilaginous bars (c. b. ) of the branchial basket are also shown, 

 and it is seen that the large mid-ventral bar divides when it reaches 

 the posterior end of the gland into two lateral bars, one of wiiich 

 lies close to each side of the thyroid throughout nearly the entire 

 length of the gland. The longitudinal grooves (ventral and lateral 

 invaginations) are quite indi.stinct because of the mass of white, 

 fibrous-looking connective tissue which now surrounds the gland on 

 all sides. At this stage, as is seen in fig. 6/, the gland extends 

 from the middle of the fii-st to the middle of the fourth gill -pouch 

 (_g.p.), and is about one-third the diameter of the entire pharynx. 

 In a ventral view, the coil of the posterior end of the gland does 

 not of course show, but at each end is seen a median groove 

 which shows, even through the fibrous envelope ; these grooves are 

 caused by the separation of the two parts of the gland, at each 

 extremity, whereas throughout most of their length the halves are 

 in close contact with each other. The numerous transverse fohls in 

 the seven pairs of gill-pouches are .seen in this figure, and also the 

 fibrous character ot the anterior wall of tlie pliarynx. The actual 

 oral opening is not shown. 



Fig. (ji is a diagrammatic side view of the ghuid, to show tiie 

 points through which the sections were cut, and also to show longi- 

 tudinal space relations, such as size and position of duct, extent of 

 coU, etc. Being carefully reconstructeil and drawn by scale, it 

 shows these relations with more or less accuracy. As is seen from 

 this diagram, the duct lies a little nearer the jMsterior than the 

 anterior end of the gland, though if the coiled ixwterior end of 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 101 



the gland were straighteiied out the duct would theu be consider- 

 ably nearer the anterior end. By comparing fig. (3c with this dia- 

 gram, it will be noticed that the duct is now a longitudinal slit 

 instead of a nearly circular duct, the lateral growth of the duct 

 apparently not having kept pace with the longitudinal. Fig. 6k 

 represents the actual relative longitudinal but not vertical dimen- 

 sions of the duct. The actual increase in size of the gland may be 

 appreciated by noting that, though all the sections were drawn with 

 a camera, those represented in figs, hb-l are enlarged 240 diame- 

 ters, while those in figs. 6a-i are magnified only 90 times. 



A section through the anterior end of the gland, passing through 

 the point marked a, fig. 6A;, is represented in fig. 6a. The chief 

 difference, besides that of size, between this section and the corre- 

 sponding one of the preceding stage (fig. of) is in the complete 

 development of the cell-groups (j/r'. ), which in the preceding stage 

 were (julte small and undeveloped. We have now in each side of 

 the gland, which is exactly bilaterally symmetrical, four groups of 

 gland cells, the groups being arranged in pairs, one pair on each 

 side lying near the middle line, the other being nearer the side 

 (figs. 6e and A-, m.c.g. and Leg.). This arrangement of the ceU- 

 groups into pairs is distinct from end to end of the gland, and for 

 convenience they will be spoken of as the " median " and " lat- 

 eral " pairs of cell-groups. As has been said, the groups gr'. 

 never reach the size of the first developed groups gr. 



The ciliated cells have changed somewhat since the preceding 

 stage. They have become relatively, as well as actually, more 

 elongated at certain parts of the ciliated layer, while at other places 

 they are still short and nearly filled with their large oval nuclei. 

 The nuclei of the longer cells aie small and circular in outline, and 

 at certain places seem to be more or less regularly arranged near one 

 end or other of the cells, while at other places there is no apparent 

 regularity in their arrangement. In fig. 6a, rhe short cells with 

 large nuclei are seen on either side of the slit-like openings (o. ) 

 into the groups of gland cells. The ciliated grooves (v.c.g.), at 

 the point where this section is cut, are still some distance apart on 

 the floor of the pharynx, and are not noticeably changed from their 

 condition in the preceding stage. They are separated by one large 

 and two small folds in the floor o^ the pharynx, which seems, at 

 this point, to be very irregular in outline, probably caused partly 




102 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



by sliriukage at fixation. They are very deep and narrow and 

 seem filled completely by their cilia. 



The connective tissue covering {c.t.) of the thyroid, spoken of 

 in connection with the outward appearance of the thyroid, is seen, 

 in section, to form a thick layer entirely around the gland and to 

 form the central mass of median lamella {m.l.). It also forms a 

 thick coating around each branch of the large artery which Dohrn 

 calls the Pseudobrauchial artery (Spritzlocharterie ) (art.). The 

 large and now nearly enclosed space (i.e.), formed by what was 

 called the " lateral invagination," is more or less completely filled 

 by a sort of reticulated tissue with scaltered nuclei. This reticu-. 

 lated tissue also fills the space between the floor of the pharynx and 

 the thyroid. Numerous small blood vessels are found imbedded in 

 it, both in that which fills the lateral invagination and in that which 

 lies between the gland and the pharynx. This tissue is represented 

 only in figs. Ca and 66, but the fibrous tissue is shown in all the 

 figures of this stage. 



Fig. (56 represents a section cut a short distance anterior to the 

 duct, at the point b., fig. 6k, and about corresponds to fig. 5A of 

 the jnvcpdiiig stage. The ciliated grooves at this point have united 

 to form a single deep groove, which is spread out at the bottom to 

 form the side pockets (p.) described in the preceding stage. The 

 lateral and median paiiv of cell-groups have approached each other 

 until their adjacent groups are nearly or quite in contact; at tlie 

 same time the ciliated layer (f.l.) has increased somewhat iu 

 length, and at its dorsoinedian angle (at the end of tlie lines/./., 

 fig. (\b) its cells have changed from the tall columnar with small, 

 round nuclei to short cells, almost completely filled with their large 

 oval nuclei and resembling the cells that lie close to the openings 

 (o. ) of the groups of the gland cells. It is this group of cells, 

 lying in the dorso-median portion of the ciliated layer, that .sep- 

 arates into two about equal parts, a little further posteriorly, to 

 connect the gland with the deep ciliated groove, in the manner 

 described in the jjreceding stage and .shown in figs, oh—i of that 

 stage and in fig. 6c of the stage now under discassiou. The ciliated 

 layer is somewiiat folded, ius though it had increa.sed in lengtli very 

 rajjidly, <ir had been compressed by liie shrinkage of the connective 

 tUsue (c.t.) surrounding the gland. There is considerable space at 

 this point between the pharynx and the tiiyroid. which necessitates 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 103 



the very deep ciliated groove shown iu this aud the uest figure. 

 The arteries (art.) are very large and are bound closely to the 

 gland by the connective tL«sue mentioned above. The cover layer 

 (d.l.) in these sections is reduced to such a thin membrane that 

 it is often difficult to distinguish it from the connective tissue to 

 which it is closely applied throughout. 



A section passing directly through the opening of the duct into 

 the gland is represented in fig. 6c. The duct, a deep, narrow slit, 

 is lined with short, ciliated columnar cells, similar to the shorter 

 cells of the ciliated layer spoken of above. These short cells lead 

 quite suddenly into the long cells of the ciliated layer (/.^. ). 



The lateral pair of cell -groups (Leg.) is now entirely distinct 

 from the median pair (m.c.g.), and the pocket (p.) by which the 

 lateral cell-groups are connected with the duct, as before explained, 

 is continued to the extreme posterior end of the gland, the two 

 lateral pairs of cell -groups taking no part ui the posterior coil but 

 continuing back of this for some distance (figs. 6i and k). 



The median lamella (m.L), which back to this point has com- 

 pletely divided the gland into two parts, is from this point merely 

 a tall ridge (fig. 6c, m. I. ) projecting upward into the median cili- 

 ated chamber (m.c.h. ) aud covered by the cover cells (d.l. ) (Deck- 

 lamelle ) of the two median pairs of cell-groups. xVs in the pre- 

 ceding stage, the dorsal edge of this ridge Ls at times somewhat 

 thickened. 



The space between the anterior end of the coil and the duct is 

 short, as is seen by fig. 6^, and a section through the gland in this 

 region (fig. 6d) differs very little from a corresponding section on 

 the preceding stage (fig. 5/), except in the particulars already 

 pointed out for the anterior end of the gland. The median ciliated 

 chamber (m.c. A.) is long aud narrow in a dorso-veutral direction 

 and its doreal part is made up of the shorter form of ciliated cells. 

 The lateral ciliated chamber ( /. c. h. ) is also much more extensive 

 than in the preceding stage. The ciliated groove (;v.c.g.) Ls seen 

 above the gland in the floor of the pharynx. It is much less deep 

 than it was, just anterior to the duct, and remains in about this 

 condition to a pouit beyond the extreme posterior end of the gland. 

 There is still a considerable space between the thyroid and the floor 

 of the pharj-nx, which space is filled with the reticulated tissue 

 mentioned above and shown in figs. 6a and 66. 




104 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



The foUowing four sections (figs. Ge-h) all pass througli the 

 coiled posterior end of the gland, at the points indicated by the 

 corresponding letters in fig. 6^-. The apparent complexity of these 

 four sections mil be made plain by comparing them with the dia- 

 grammatic lateral view of the gland (fig. Qk). In all foui- sections, 

 what we have called the lateral pairs of cell-groups (I. e.g.) remain 

 the same and may be recognized by their long, curved, lateral 

 ciliated chambei-s {l.c.h.). 



In fig. 6e the median pairs of cell-groups are seen in a mid- 

 ventral position (m.c.g.) as they are followed in an anterior-poste- 

 rior direction, again in a raid-dorsal position (m.c.g'.') as thev are 

 followed in a posterior-anterior direction, and again in nearly the 

 centre of the gland at m.c.g". as they are followed toward the pos- 

 terior end again. This is ea.«ily understood by noting the position 

 of the line e in fig. (ik, which shows that the section is cut at the 

 point where the posterior-anteriorly directed part of the median 

 cell-groups {m.c.g'.) turns ventralward, to pa.ss again toward the 

 posterior (m.c.g".). The central ciliated chamber (m.c.h.) is thus 

 seen, in this section, to be continuous from the doi-sal (m.c.g'.) to 

 the middle (m.c.g". ) position of the median cell-groups. The gen- 

 eral character of the various groups and layers of cells remains 

 about the same in all four of th&se sections, so that it will be only 

 nece.«sary to speak of their position and an-angement in the sections. 



The next section (fig. fi/. ) cuts the median cell-groups in four 

 place.', as is shown in fig. Gk — at m.c.g. in the anterior-pjsteriorly 

 directed portion, at m.c.g'. in the dorsal posterior-anterior portion, 

 at m.c.g". in the part that is directed again toward the 

 ])Osterior end, and at m.c.g'". in the last whorl of ihc coil which is 

 directed toward the anterior end of the gland. It will be noticed 

 in this and in the other sections ]>a.><sing through the coiled part of 

 the gland, that the median lamella (m.l.) extends into the coil only 

 a short distance. It extends through the dorsally directed part of 

 the coil shown in fig. Hh, and for a short distance in. the ]K)stcrior- 

 anteriorly i)art lettered m.c.g'. Whether it was never found in 

 this end of the gland, oi whether it was flattened out by compres- 

 sion was not determined. The sha])e of the median ciliated cham- 

 ber varies considerably in the different whorls of tiic coil, as is .«een 

 in fig. 6/, m.c.h. In its ventral position — that is, in the ]x>sition 

 lettered m.c.g. — the ciliated chamber has the same outline as in pre- 




1902. J NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 105 



vious sections, .and is divided by the median lamella (m.l. ). In its 

 dorsal position (m.c.g'.) it is a large chamber undivided by a 

 median lamella. In the middle of the coil, especially in the posi- 

 tion lettered m.c.r/'", the chamber is much diminished, apparently 

 by the pressure of the surrounding whorls of the coil. By remem- 

 bering that the groups m.c.g'. and m.c.g'". are inverted, as a 

 comparison with the line/, in fig. 6/- will show, it will be seen that 

 the gland is in reality no more complicated than it was further 

 forward. Nothing further need be said of this section. 



Fig. 6g represents a section cut through the point where the 

 posteriorly directed wdiorl (m.c.g".) turns dorsalward, to pass ante- 

 riorly as the innermost whorl {m.c.g'".) of the coil. 



Fig. (ih shows the most posterior of the four sections passing 

 through the coil. It passes through the point where the median 

 cell-groujjs (m.c.g.) make their first bend dorsalward to where they 

 turn again to form the anteriorly directed whorl (m.c.g'.). 



As has been previously said, the lateral cell -groups (Leg.) take 

 no part in the posterior coil but extend for a considerable distance 

 posterior to the coil, somewhat diminished in size, and gradually 

 approach each other until they are in close contact. 



Fig. 6i' represents a section taken at a point about midway 

 between the extreme posterior end of the gland and the posterior 

 surface of the coil. It shows the two pairs of lateral cell groups 

 (Leg.), each with its characteristically curved lateral ciliated 

 chamber (l.c.h.). Just posterior to the coil the two large pseudo- 

 branchial arteries, which were seen on each side of the gland in all 

 the preceding sections (figs. &a-h, art. ), unite to form the one 

 large artery seen in fig. 6i', art, lying between the gland below and 

 the ciliated groove above. This artery is very large, being almost 

 as great in cross section as the end of the thyroid below it. The 

 wall of the pharjTix is separated from the gland by a comparatively 

 small space, so that it is evidently pushed upward by the large 

 coiled end of the gland and sinks down again just behind this eleva- 

 tion. The groups of gland cells have diminished-somewhat, in cross 

 section, but they are not greatly diminished even at their extreme 

 posterior end. 



If, as Dohru says, the coUing of the posterior end of the thyroid 

 gland is caused by its longitudinal growth being more rapid than 

 the growth of the space in which it lies, it is difficult to see why 




106 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



the lateral cell-groups have not takea part in the coil, instead of 

 projecting as they do for a considerable distance posterior to the coil. 



The Thyroid and Salivary Glands in the Adult Lamprey. 



The condition of the thyroid in the adult lamprey was studied in 

 several large sea lampreys {Petromyzon rnarinus) taken at the her- 

 ring fisheries of the Susquehanna river, and in a couple of brook 

 lampreys (P. branchialts) from Ithaca, N. Y. 



Wilhelm Miiller say.s^ that the thyroid in the " sexually mature " 

 animal extends underneath the long tongue muscle from the second 

 to the fourth gill-sac, and is built up of a number of closed follicles 

 lined with intensely brown-yellow epithelium. He says it cannot 

 be mistaken for the salivary gland, lying under the eye and open- 

 ing by a duct into the mouth. 



A study of serial sections of a couple of recently transformed 

 brook lampreys confirmed IMiiller's description of the position and 

 anatomy of the adult thyroid, but careful dissection of one or two 

 adult sea lampreys, and even sections of part of the floor of the 

 pharynx, failed to show any trace of the thyroid. As the brook 

 lampreys were, as has been said, only just transformed, while the 

 sea lampreys were killed at sexual maturity, it is possible that the 

 thyroid, which is ductless and a mere rudiment in any case, had 

 nearly or quite disappeared in the older animals. As is seen in fig. 

 lOff, the thyroid, which in the younger larval stages wa.s enormously 

 large, j)roportionally, is a small grouj) of follicles lined with col- 

 umnar or cuboidal epithelium (fig. 106). It is surrounded by con- 

 nective tissue and lies between the tongue muscle above and the 

 median veutral cartilaginous bar below, with a large blood vessel 

 on either side. It extends, as Miiller says, from the second to the 

 fourth gill-pouch. The follicles are generally filleil with a secretion 

 (not shown in the figures), and, with their surrounding cells, form, 

 in cross section, an oval mass. Usually from four to six follicles 

 are cut in each transverse section. 



Born was the first to describe correctly the salivary or basihir 

 gland in the lamprey, Rathke having mistaken the basilar muscle, 

 in which the gland lies imbedded, for the ti.ssue of the gland, con- 

 .sidering the true glaud as merely the cavity. 



Wenaische Zeitschrift, Rd. VII. 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 107 



The gland is paired, and each half lies, as has just been said, 

 imbedded in the tissue of the corresponding half of the large, 

 paired basilar muscle. This muscle lies in the floor of the mouth 

 and pharynx and is one of the muscles used by the animal in 

 adhering to rocks or fish. By contraction of this muscle the sali- 

 vary gland LS compressed and its secretion thus forced out. 



In the large, adult sea lamprey the two parts of the basilar gland 

 are easily discovered by dissection, lymg in the medial sides of their 

 corresponding halves of the basilar muscle. In the much smaller 

 brook lamprey, the position and structure of the basilar gland may 

 be made out by stained serial sections (figs. 9a and 96). Each half 

 of the gland is a thin-walled ovoidal sac, about 2 cm. long and 

 8 mm. in cross section, in the sea lamprey. The epithelial cells of 

 the walls are of a short columnar form, and the walls are thrown 

 into numerous irregularly arranged papillse and short folds, which 

 project into the cavity of the gland (figs. 9a and 9b). 



From the medial side of the gland, a short distance back of its 

 extreme anterior end, the duct leads forward, gradually approaching 

 its fellow of the opposite side, but never meeting it, to open into 

 the mouth cavity through a small papilla. Little or no secretion 

 was seen in the gland. The posterior end of the gland is separated 

 from the first gill-sac by a distance about equal to the space occu- 

 pied by two gill-sacs. 



Fig. 9a represents a transverse section through the ventral part 

 of the bodv of an adult brook lamprey. The large basilar muscle 

 (b.m.) is seen on each side, between the body wall (b.w.) below 

 and the pharynx {jylmr.) above. Imbedded in this muscle is the 

 basilar or salivary gland {b.g.) whose walls are thrown into irregu- 

 lar folds and papillse, as has been mentioned. 



Fig. 9& is anterior to 9a and is drawn under greater magnifica- 

 tion. One side only of the gland is shown, the section passing 

 through it just anterior to the opening of the duct (d.) into the 

 gland. This figure shows that the folds in the wall of the gland 

 are formed by invaginations of irregular form and at irregular 

 intervals. The wall of the duct is of about the same thickness as 

 that of the gland, but is not thrown into folds. The duct 

 diminishes in size somewhat as it passes forward. 



As no trace whatever of this basilar or salivary gland could be 

 found in even the oldest larvre at hand, which must have been very 




108 JROCEEUINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



nearly ready to undergo transformation, though several well pre- 

 served and stained series were examined, it seemed possible that this 

 gland miglit have been developed from the anterior part of the 

 larval thyroid, or from the pair of deep ciliated grooves which run 

 forward from tlie opeuiuir of tlie thyroid and wliich are not present, 

 as such, in the adult condition. 



The similarity in tlie secretion and function of the larval thyroid 

 to the secretion and function of a salivary gland seems to support 

 this view. 



The author hopes, with the aid of proper material, to be able to 

 prove definitely whether or not there is any relation between the 

 larval thyroid and the salivary gland of the adult Petromyzon. 



BiBLIOGKAPHT. 



Babbs, 1881. Researches on the Minute Structure of the ThjMoitl Gland, 



Phil. Trans. Roy. Soc, London, 1881, pp. 577-608. 

 Brooks, 1893. Origin of the Chordata in "Genus Salpa," pp. 178- 



3)3. Mem. from llie Biol. Lab. of .Tolins Hopkins Univ. 

 Bu.J0K, 1891. Contribution ii I'elude de la metamorphose de I'Amnio- 



coeles branchialis et P. planeri. Kevue ]5iol. de ,Nord France ; 



3eme Ann., No. 8, SCi-SLi ; No. 9, 325-339; No. 10, 365-390; No. 



11, 417-426; No. 12, 474-486 ; 4me Ann., No. 2, 41-46. 

 DoHRN, 1886. Thyroidea nnd llypobranchialrinne, Spritzlochsack und 



Peeudobranchialrinne bei Fischen, Ammococtes und Tunicaten. 



Milt. zool. Sta. V. Neapel, Bd. VH, pp. 301-336. 

 1886. Thyroidea bei Petroinv/.on, Amphio.\us und Tunicaten. Mitt. 



ZooL Sta. V. Noapel, Bd. Vl, pj). 49-89. 

 FiscHELis, 1885. Beitriige znr Ivenntniss der Entwicklungsgeechichte 



der Glandula thyroida und Glandula thymus. Archiv. fur inik. 



Anat., Bd. XXV, 1885. 

 FliKBRiNGEK, 1^75. Untersuchungsn z. Vergleichenden Anatomic d. 



Muskulatur d. Kopfskelets d. Cyclostomen. Jen. Zeitschr., Bd. IX, 



93 pages. 

 Gagr, 18j3. Life-IIistory of Certain Species of Lamprcv. Wilder 



Quarter-Century Book, 1893, jip. 420-479. 

 JuLEiN, 1890. Vascular and nervous .'iyslem, etc., and the metamorphic 



value of the thyroid body. .Vrchiv. d. Biol., T. VH, pp- 759-90.;. 

 KoHN, 189). Sludien iiber die Schilddriise. Archiv. f. mik. Anat., Bd. 



XLIV, 1895, pp. 3ti(>-422. 

 KuPFFER, 1888 and 189^. Development of the Laniprev (P. planeri). 



Archiv. f. mik. Anat., Bd. XXXV. pp. 469-5-58. 

 Maiuek, 1885. Mittheilung u. d. Schilddriise und Thymus d. Teleosts. 



Jen. Zeitsclir., Bd. XIX. 

 DE Mei'ron, 1B86. Recherches sur le development du Thymus et de la 



gland thyroid. Recueil zool()gi(iue Suisse, Premier Series, T. III. 

 Mdli.f.r, W.", 1872. I', d. llypobranchialrinne d. Tunucatcn und deren 



Vorhandensein b. Aniphioxus u. d. Cj'clostomen. Jen. Zeitschr., 



Bd. vir. 



ScOTT, 1887. Development of Petromyzon. Jour. Morph., Vol. I, pp. 



253-310. 

 WiLLEY, 1894. Amphio.xus and the Ancestry of the Vertebrates. Mac- 



niillan Co 




1902.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



109 



Explanation of Letteking. 



a.li.l., anterior liorizoutal lamella. 



aort., aorta. 



art., pseudobranchial artery. 



h.g., basilar (salivary) gland. 



b.m., basilar muscle. 



br., point of separation of ciliated 

 and of cover cells. 



b.w., body wall. 



C.5., cartilaginous bars. 



e.d.r., ciliated dorsal ridge. 



ch., notochord. 



c.t., connective tissue envelope. 



d., duct of basilar gland. 



d.c.g., dorsal ciliated groove. 



dX, cover cells (Decklamelle). 



e., eye. 



f.l., ciliated cells. 



g.l., gland cells (Drusenlamelle). 



g.p , gill pouch. 



gr., primary group of gland cells. 



gr'., secondary group of gland 

 cells. 



i.v.. lateral invagination. 



I., loop of the ciliated groove. 



I e.g., lateral cell-group. 



l.c.h., lateral ciliated chambers. 



m., membrane over o. 



m.cg., III. eg'., etc., median cell- 

 groups. 



m.c.h., median ciliated chamber. 



mes., mesoblast. 



m.l., median lamella. 



m.l'., extreme posterior end of 

 median lamella. 



re/., nuclei of ciliated cells. 



n.gl., nuclei of gland cells. 



0., slit-like opening of cell-groups. 



as., oesophagus. 



p., side pouch of ventral ciliated 

 groove. 



jyhar., pharynx. 



p.h.L, posterior horizontal la- 

 mella. 



p.s., protuberance of secreted mat- 

 ter. 



«., secretion. 



sp.c, spinal cord. 



sto., stomodseuu. 



thy., thyroid gland. 



t.7n., tongue muscle. 



■U.I., upper lip. 



v., velum. 



v.a.l, a, etc., 1st, 2d, etc., visceral 

 arches. 



v.e , visceral clefts. 



v. e.g.. ventral ciliated groove. 



£-y., line through which the sep- 

 aration of the side pouch from 

 the ventral ciliated groove takes 

 place. 



Explanation of Plates IV, V, VI, VII. 

 All sections drawn with a Zeiss Camera Lucida. 



Fig. la. — Larva of P. planeri, 11 days after fertilization, to show the 

 external appearance of the larva at the time of the first trace of the 

 thyroid. (Mag. 65 diam.) 



Fig. 16. — Transverse section of 12-day larva of P. planeri, through the 

 anterior end of the thyroid, just anterior to the opening into the pharyu.v. 

 Shows the gland as a circular cavity lined with columnar cells, lying 

 under the digestive cavity. (Mag. 325 diam.) 



Fig. Ic. — Transverse section posterior to fig. 16, through the anterior 

 part of the opening of the thyroid into tlie pharynx. (Mag. 335 diam.) 



Fig. 2a. — Transverse section tlirough the extreme anterior end of the 

 thyroid of a 14-day P. planeri. (Mag. 325 diam.) 



Fig. 26. — Transverse section posterior to fig. Sa, but anterior to the 

 opening of the gland into the pharynx. Shows beginning of lateral 

 invagination. (Mag. 325 diam.) 



Fig. 2c. — Transverse section posterior to fig. 26, tlirough the anterior 

 part of the opening of the gland into the pharynx. (Mag. 325 diam.) 



Fig. 2d. — Transverse section posterior to, fig. 2c, through the posterior 

 part of the opening of the gland into tlie pharynx. (Mag. 325 diam.) 



Fig. 2«. — Transverse section through the gland, posterior to the open- 

 ing into the pharynx. (Mag. 325 diam.) 




110 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



Fig. 3. — Sagittal section through the head of a 13-day P. planeri, 

 passing almost through the mediau plane of the thyroid and somewhat 

 to one side of the centre of thestomodseum. Shows the beginning gland 

 as an evagination of the floor of the pharynx. The anterior and poste- 

 rior horizontal lamellse, which finally "separate the gland from the 

 pharynx, are just beginning to be formed. (Mag. 325 diam.) 



(Figs. 4-7 are talien from the material obtained at Ithaca, N. Y., and 

 are therefore either of the lake or of the brook lamprey, or perhaps of 

 both.) 



Fig. 4a. — Transverse section through the anterior end of the thyroid, 

 passing through the extreme posterior edge of the vertical lamella. 

 Shows beginning of differentiation of cells into "gland" and "cover" 

 cells. (Mag. 240 diam.) 



Fig. 46. — Transverse section posterior to fig. 4a, cutting the gland just 

 anterior to the duct, and showing the first trace of the ciliated groove. 

 (Mag. 240 diam.) 



Fig. Ac. — Transverse section near the posterior end of the gland, pos- 

 terior to the duct and to the lateral invaginations. (Mag. 240 diam.) 



Fig. 5a. — Lateral view of the head of a 9 mm. larva, to show the 

 relative size of the thyroid gland and its position in relation to the gill- 

 arches, etc. (Drawnfrom the living animal under a magnification of 50 

 diam.) 



Fig. 56. — Transverse section through the head of a larva of Petromy- 

 zon, anterior to the thyroid, through tlie point where (on the right side) 

 the ciliated srroovc turns from the dorsal toward tlie ventral side of the 

 pharynx. The section cuts exactly through the end of the loop on the 

 right" side, but somewhat posterior to this point on the left side. (Mag. 

 240 diam.) 



Fig. 5c. — Transverse section a short distance posterior to fig. 56 to 

 show how the dorsal branches of the ciliated grooves approach each 

 other, on the roof of the pharynx, as they pass toward the posterior ; and 

 the same for the ventral branches on tlie floor of the pharynx. (Mag. 

 240 diam. ) 



Fig. 5(/. — Transverse section posterior to fig. 5c and just anterior to the 

 gland. Shows the dorsal ciliated grooves separated only by a ridge of 

 cells, which, a short distance further toward the posterior, becomes tlie 

 ciliated dorsal ridge. The ventral grooves also are seen nearer together. 

 (Mag. 240 diam.) 



Fig. 5e. — Transverse section through the anterior end of the thyroid. 

 Shows the still nearer approach of the two ventral grooves. The cover 

 cells are flattene<l out into a thin membrane, while the gland cells arc 

 very long, are splitiing ofl" from their nucleated ends the cells to form 

 theciliated layer and begin to show an arrangement into the four cell- 

 groups. The lateral invagination deeply indents each of the halves into 

 which the gland is divided by the modia'n lamella. (Mag. 240 diam.) 



Fig. 5/. — Transverse section posterior to fig. 5c. The ciliated grooves 

 are nearly joined, the ciliated layer of colls is now distinct, as are two of 

 the four cell-groups. The lateral invagination is very deep. (.Mag. 240 

 diam.) 



Fig. 5.«7.— Transverse section posterior to fig. 5/ but still anterior to the 

 duct. The ciliated grooves have united to form a single deep groove 

 which is here sjji-ead out at the bottom, giving it the shape, in cress 

 section, of an inverted letter T. The structure of the gland is now about 

 the same as in the preceding section. (Mag. 240 diam.) 



Fig. 6/i.— Transverse section posterior to fig. Sjr and just anterior to 

 the opening of the duct. The structure of the gland is the same as in 

 fig. 5f/, but the shape of the ciliated groove has changed somewhiit. 

 (Mag! 240 diam.) 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. Ill 



Fig. 5i. — Transverse section through the opening of the duct into the 

 ciliated groove. Shows that the median ciliated chamber opens directly 

 into the deep ciliated groove, while the lateral ciliated chambers open 

 into the ciliated groove through the side pouches noticed in the last two 

 preceding figures. The lateral invaginations, from this point to the pos- 

 terior end, divide the gland into three distinct parts, a median and two 

 lateral parts. The median lamella is no longer a complete partition and 

 shows a decided swelling on its dorsal edge. (Mag. 240 diam.) 



Fig. 5j. — Transverse section a short distance posterior to the opening 

 of the duct. The ciliated groove is still present but much diminished in 

 depth. (Mag. 240 diam.) 



Pig. 5k. — Transverse section posterior to fig. 5j, passing through the 

 beginning posterior coil. Shows the nosv broad and shallow ciliated 

 groove close to the top of the gland, and ciliated dorsal ridge on the roof 

 of the pharynx. (Mag. 240 diam.) 



Fig. 51. — Transverse section through the extreme posterior end of the 

 gland. (Mag. 240 diam.) 



Fig. 5vi. — A horizontal section through the thyroid, showing the 

 extent of the complete median lamella, the relative position of the vis- 

 ceral arches, etc. (Mag. 240 diam.) 



Fig. 6a. — Transverse section through the anterior end of the thyroid 

 of a 10 cm. larval Petromyzon. All four groups of cells are now fully 

 developed, and the gland has increased greatly in size, as is shown by 

 the fact that figs. 5a-7n were magnified 240 diameters, while the larger 

 figs. 6a-i were magnified only 90 times. This figure about corresponds 

 to Fig. 5e of the precedmg stage. 



Fig. 66. — Transverse section posterior to fig. 6« and just anterior to the 

 opening of the duct. Corresponds to fig. 5h of the preceding stage. 

 (Mag. 90 diam.) 



Fig. 6c. — Transverse section through the duct of the gland. Corre- 

 sponds to fig. oi' of the preceding stage. The lateral ciliated chambers 

 are much more extensive than in the preceding stage. (Mag. 90 diam.) 



Fig. dd. — Transverse section just posterior to the duct. Corresponds 

 to fig. 5J of the preceding stage. (Mag. 90 diam.) 



Figs. (Je-h. — Transverse sections through the coiled posterior end of the 

 gland, cut in the planes indicated in fig. 6k. (All mag. 90 diam.) 



Fig. fit. — Transverse section through the thyroid, posterior to the coiled 

 posterior end of the gland, to show tlie manner in which the lateral pairs 

 of cell-groups extend for some distance behind the coiled median cell- 

 groups. The pseudobranchial arteries are seen in this section as a single 

 large vessel. (Mag. 90 diam.) 



Fig. Gj. — Ventral view of the head of a 1.5 cm. larva, with the ventral 

 integument drawn to each side to expose the thyroid gland. The relation 

 of tiie gland to the bars of the branchial basket is shown. (Mag. 3 

 diam.) 



Fig. 6k. — Diagrammatic lateral view of the thyroid eland, recon- 

 structed by measurement to show, more or less accurateley, the longi- 

 tudinal relationships of the various parts of the gland. The dotted lines 

 indicate the planes through which the sections (figs. 6a-«) pass. 



Fig. 6;. — Section through the opening of one of the cell-groups, 

 highly magnified to show details in structure. (Mag. 92-5 diam.) 



Fig. 7. — Larva of a stage between those represented in figs. 5 and 6. 

 About 2i cm. in length. 



Fig. 8«. — Transverse section through the pharynx and anterior end of 

 the thyroid in Amhlyatoma, showinsr the latter as a deep, ciliated groove 

 in the floor of the former. (Mag. 240 diam.) 



Fig. 86. — Transverse section posterior to fig. 8a, showing the thyroid 

 as an enclosed tube lined with cilia. (Mag. 240 diam. ) 




112 PROCEEDINGS OF TUE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



Fig. iki. — Transverse section tUrougli the ventral lialf of tlie head of 

 an adult brook lamprey, to show the position and relative size of the 

 paired salivary or basila"r gland. (Mag. about 17 dlam.) 



Fig. 9i. — Transverse section through one side of the salivary or basilar 

 gland and its duct, just anterior to the opening of the latter into the 

 former. (Mag. 50 diam.) 



Fig. lOrt. — Transverse section through the ventral half of an adult 

 brook lamprey, cutting through the fourth gill-sacs, to show the position 

 and relative size of the thyroid gland. (Mag. 30 diam.) 



Fig. lOJ. — Transverse section through the thyroid at ab( ut the plane 

 of the section represented in tig. 10./. (Mag. 420 diam.) 




1902.] natural sciences of philadelphia. 113 



March 4. 

 Mr. Arthur Erwin Brown, Vice-President, in the Chair. 



Thirty persons present. 



A paper entitled ' ' Karyokinesis and Cytokinesis in the Matura- 

 tion, Fertilization and Cleavage of Crepidula and other Gastro- 

 pods," by Edwin G. Conkliu, Ph.D., was ordered to be printed in 

 the Journal. 



The death of Francis W. Lewis, M. D. , a member, was announced. 



The Neurofibrillary Theory and its Bearings upon Localization 

 of Function in the Nervous System. — Dr. Charles K. Mills, 

 after referring to the correlation of nerve energy with the other 

 forms of physical energy, spoke of the reception and differentia- 

 tion of stimidi by peripheral end organs, and the manner in 

 which the neurofibrils or their elementary constituents transmit 

 nervous impulses, holding that the elementary fibrils in which is 

 stored neural energy not only conduct or transmit nervous im- 

 pulses, but by means of the special manner in which they are 

 arranged in the nerve centres as well as in the periphery, deter- 

 mine the intensity and character of the discharge. He regarded 

 the hbrillary coils and bundles as representing a complicated in- 

 duction apparatus. Localization of function is brought about by 

 means of special arrangements of intracellular and intercellular 

 neurofibrillary coils and plexuses in the particular regions called 

 centres. 



March 11. 

 The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M.D., in the Chair. 



Eleven persons present. 



Papers under the following titles were presented for publication : 

 " The Germination of the 8eeds of Carapa guianensis Aubh," 



by John W. Harshberger, Ph.D. 



" Revision of the Japanese Yiviparidse, with Notes on Melania 



and Bith)Tiia," by Henry W. Pilsbry. 




114 PEOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



March 18. 



Me. Lewis Woolmax iu the Chair. 



Eight j)ersoiis present. 



The death of Carlos Berg, a correspondeut, was announced. 



March 25. 

 Mr. Charles Morris in the Chair. 



Nineteen persons present. 



Papere under the following titles were presented for publication : 

 " A Collection of ^Mammals from Sumatra, with a Re\4ew of the 



Genera Tardigradus and Tragulus," by Witnier Stone and J. A. 



G. Rchn. 



" Mammals Collected by Dr. W. L. Abbott iu the Region of 



the Indragiri River," by Gerritt S. Miller, Jr. 



Miss Madeline Dahlgreu was elected a member. 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 115 



REVISION OF JAPANESE VIVIPAEIDS:, WITH NOTES ON MELANIA 

 AND BITHYNIA. 



BY HENEY A. PILSBRY. 



My work on these groups has been based largely upon material 

 supplied by Mr. Y. Hirase, of Kyoto, Japan. 



VIVIPARID^. 



The Viviparidce of Japan, so far as their appearance in the field 

 of literature is concerned, are involved in mind-destroying chaos. 

 This has been due partly to the intrinsic difficulty of the subject, 

 but chiefly to a failure on the part of authors to cori-ectly identify 

 the older Oriental species. Mr. T. Iwakawa,' of Tokyo, has pub- 

 lished a lucid essay upon the subject, in which the natural divisions 

 or species are for the first time correctly set forth. Owing, how- 

 ever, to the fact that he used the names for the species given bv 

 Kobelf' (as there is probably no library in Japan sufficient for the 

 verification of the German author's statements), the nomenclature 

 adopted by Iwakawa requires revision. This implies no criticism 

 of Ihe Japanese naluralist's admirable essay. The source whence his 

 nomenclature was drawn was tainted; but Ihe names aside, his grasp 

 of the facts of nature was sound. 



Pseudo-Japanese species. 



In my opinion, the following species do not occur in Japan : 



Paludina oxytropis Benson, Journal of the Asiatic Society of Bengal, 

 V, 1836, p. 745, type locality Sylhet. Figured in Conchologia 

 Indica, PI. 76, fig. 5, and Conch, "iconica, flg. 9. 



-f P. •pyramidata v. d. Busch in Philippi, Abbildungen, etc., I, p. 

 113, PL 1, figs. 3, 4 (1844). Type locality, Bengal. 



Paludina ingalUiana Lea, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., 1836, p. 110. Fig- 

 ured in Observations on the Genus Unio, etc., XI, p. 74, PI. 33, 

 fig. 9. Type locality, Siam. Not P. iiigallsiana Reeve ! 



I am satisfied that tliose who will compare authentic specimens of 



' Notes on the Paludina-species of Japan, in Annotationes Zoological 

 Japonenses, I. Part 3, pp. 83-93, PI. V, 1897. 



- Fauna Molluscoi-um Extramarinorum Japonice, Frankftu-t, 1879. 




116 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



Ihese species, or in their absence the figures referred to above, will 

 agree with me that no specimens referable lo either of them have 

 been made known from Japan. 



Vivipara stelmaphora Boursuignat, Rev. et Mag. de Zool., Mars, 

 1862, PI. 6, figs. 7, 8 ; Spicil. Malac, p. 135, PI. 10, figs. 7, 8. 

 Type locality, tekin, China. 



WTiile close to the Japanese V. malleatus (Kve. ), this species 



differs in its comparatively longer spire and smaller aperture. It 



seems to me related to V. lecythoides (Bens.). Its introduction 



into the Japanese list was due to the three .«piral punctured lines, 



which stelmaphora has in common with several other species. 



Japanese species. 



With the above-mentioned Continental species out of the way, 

 we find the following described from Japan : 



Paludina histrica Gould, 1859. 

 Paludina japonica v. Mart., 18G0. 

 Paludina lata v. Mart., 1860. 

 Paludina malUata Reeve, 1863. 

 Paludina ahbretiata Reeve, 1863. 

 Paludina nitens Reeve, 1863. 

 Vivipara aclateri Frauenfeld, 1865. 



Of these seven names, three or four stand for species ; the others 

 being synonyms or varieties. 



Viviparus malleatU3 (Reeve). PI. IX, figs. 6, 7. 



Paludina malleata Reeve, Conch. Icon., Vol. XIV. PI. 5, fig. 25 



(February, 1863). 

 Paludina cibbvetiata Reeve, Conch. Icon., Vol. XIV, PI. 5, fig. 26 



(February. 1863). 

 Paludina stelmaphora Kobelt, Fauna Moll. Extraruar. Jap., p. 122, 



PI. 11, fig. 4. 

 Paludina stelmaphora Iwakawa, Annot. Zool. Jap., I, p. 85, PI. 5, 



figs. 1-4. Xot V. stelmaphora Bgt.! 



" Shell swollen, egg-shaped, thin, smooth, with a greenish epi- 

 dermis; spire low with an obtuse ajiex usually worn out in old 

 spcciniens. Whorls quite rounded, separated by 4eep suture.", each 

 whorl wound round with three punctured lines."' Tbe.^e lines bear 

 short bristle-s in young or perfectly preserved adidt shells. They 

 are sometimes very faint, in jiart obsolete, but I believe always 

 visible on some part of the shell. Two are on the upijer surface 

 and one near the periphery. Even when the early whorls are 

 preserved, there are no angles or spiral ridges on the sheU, such as 

 ' I can do no better than to quote Iwakawa's words. 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 117 



usually occur iu the next species, though specimens ' ' often present 

 hammered -like sculpture on the surface," hence the name 

 malleatus. 



Jlr. Iwakawa has traced this species from the Province Mutsu, at 

 the north end of Nippon, to the middle Riukiu Islands. Mr. 

 Hirase sends specimens from the islands also. Fig. 6 represents a 

 specimen from Kagoshima, Satsuma. Fig. 7 is from a very smooth 

 and glossy shell from Okinawa. 



This species is more globose than the Chinese V. stelmaphora, 

 the tube enlarging more rapidly, producmg a lower spire and 

 larger aperture. 



Paludina hctav. Martens {Malak. Bldtt., VII, 45), described 

 from a specunen or specimens collected by Siebold, and not figured, 

 is a glossy form with some puncture-lines, as in the smooth form of 

 V. malleatus. The type has 6 whorls, and measures alt. 2.S, diam. 

 21 mm. The last whorl is distinctly angular. I think this is 

 likely to prove to be a form of V. malleatus. H so, the name 

 has priority. 



Viviparus japonicus (v. Martens). PI. IX, fig. 1. 



Paludina jnporika v. Mart., Malakozoologische Blatter, VII, 1860, 



p. 44. Reeve, Conch. Icon., flg. 13. Kobelt, t. c, p. 130, PI. 11, 



fig. 1. 

 Paludina oxytropis yhv. japonica Iwakawa, t. c, p. 88, PI. 5, fig. 17. 

 Paludina oxytropis var. aclateri Iwakawa, t. c, p. 89, PI. 5, fig. 14. 



Large, pyramidal, dark olive-green and glossy. The earlier 

 whorls are encircled by two keels, later becoming mere angles, and 

 then usually disappearing on the last whorl or two. There may also 

 be some oblique malleation in places. The last whorl is obscurely 

 angidar, the angle darker. There are no puncture-linas, as in 

 V. malleatus, though theie are flue, subobsolete spiral striae. The 

 specimen figured is from Omaki, Yamashiro. The type locality is 

 not known, the specimens brought home by Siebold being merely 

 labeled Japau. 

 Viviparus japonicus var. iwakawa nov. PI. IX, flg. 3. 



Paludina oxytropis Bens., Kobelt, t. c, p. 123, PI. 11, flgs. 6, 6a, 



(exclusive of synonymy). 

 P. oxytropis Bens., Iwakawa, t. c, p. 88, PI. 5, flgs. 12, 13. Not 



Paludina oxytropis Benson, an Indian species belonging to an 



appreciably different group ! 



Differing from V. japonicus chiefly in the persistence in adult 

 shells of the keel at the periphery, giving the shell ' ' the shape of a 




118 PEOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



double cone, ' ' and the greater prominence of several spiral cords or 

 angles above and below. Iwakawa has abundantly proven that 

 this form iutergrades perfectly with the typical V. japonicus — a fact 

 manifest in the series before me. He holds also that it iutergrades 

 with the form called " P. sclateri" by Kobelt, but which is far 

 from being the typical V. sclateri of Fraueufeld. He also gives 

 reasons for belie\'iug that this carinate form " represents the ances- 

 tral species whence the several varieties have arisen." It seems to 

 be confined to the northern third of Nippon, so far as existing data 

 show. Types of var. iivakawa are from Furukawa, Eikuzeu, No. 

 80,639 Coll. A. N. S., from No. 61 of Mr. Hirase's coUection. 



I have not yet seen specimens of the form called sclateri by 

 Iwakawa. It occurs in the same area as var. iicakmva, and so far 

 as we know not in southern Nippon, where the true V. sclateri 

 and where Kobelt' s sclateri live. 



Viviparus histrious (Gould). PI. IX, flg. 5. 



Paludiiui histrica Gld., Proc. Boston See. N. H., VII, p. 41 (June, 



1859); 01 ia Conch., p. 106. 

 t Paludina niteiu Reeve, Conch. Icon., flg. 59 (April, 1863). 



The shell is umliilicate, pyramidal, brown i.sh-grecn, and glossy 



when clean. There are no puucturc-lines, though faint spiral 



striie exist. The whorls are carinate at the periphery, the keel 



usually projecting above the sutures, but reduced to a mere low 



cord on the last whorl. A well-growu specimen measures, alt. 31, 



diam. '1\ mm. Figured specimen is from Kagoshima, Satsuma. 



Viviparus sclateri Frauenfeld. PI. IX, fig. 4. 



V. sclateri Ftld., Vcrh. zool.-hot. Ges. Wien, XV, 1865, p. 531, PI. 



22, upper figures on left side. 

 f Paludina ingall»ianus Reeve, Conch. Icon., XIV, PI. 7, fijr. 89 a, & 



(1863). 

 P. inrjalUiana Reeve, Kobelt, t. c, p. 124, PI. 10, flg. 14-18; PI. 11, 



flg. 2. 

 P. inijalUiana Reeve, Iwakawa, t. c, p. 86, PI. 5, figs. 5-7 (not 



typiciil). 

 T P. sclateri Kobelt, t. c, p. 121, PI. 11, fig. 3. 

 Not P. ingallsiana Lea, 1856 ! 



A pyramidal, brownish species, with strongly angular perii)hery 

 and several low angles above it. The shell attains a large size, the 

 specimen figured measuring alt. 45, diam. 30 mm., though eroded 

 above. 



V. sclateri is, perhaps, a variety of V. hislricus, but as I liave 

 not seen specimens connecting them, I allow it to stand here as a 

 species, peudiug fuller information. 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHIL.\DELPHIA. 119 



So far as we now know, its area of distribution does not overlap 

 that of the earinated form of V. japonims. Mr. Iwakawa writes : 

 " This excellent species has hitherto been known only from Lake 

 Biwa, to which I will now add two more localities : Lake 8uwa in 

 Prov. Shinano, and Nagoya m Prov. Owari, on the strength of 

 specimens contained in the Imperial Museum." "In the north- 

 eastern provinces of Hondo I could not obtain a single specimen of 

 this species, in spite of my efforts to collect during the excursion of 

 last summer. It is very desu-able to ascertam its range of distribu- 

 tion in middle Japan and also in the southwestern province.*, where 

 it probably also occurs. 



Paludina sdateri of Kobelt's Fauna seems to be an ecarinate 

 form of this species. It is far from being typical sdateri. 



MELANIID^. 

 Melania reiniana var. hidaohiensis nov. PI. IX, fig. 2. 



Shell moderately slender, greenish-yellow above, the last whorl 

 olive-brown under a blackish incrustation. Whorls strongly con- 

 vex, sculptured with strong, slightly curved ribs, rather wide-spaced, 

 11 or 12 on the pemdtiiuate whorl, those on the last whorl becoming 

 smaller and closer, not extending below the periphery ; the whole 

 surface sculptured with spiral lirje, about 15 on the last whorl, those 

 below the periphery continuous, those above more or less obsolete 

 between the longitudinal ribs, conspicuous upon them. 



Length 23, diam. 9, length of aperture 8i mm. ; 6 whorls 

 remaining. 



Length 20, diam. 9, length of apertui-e 9^ mm. ; 4+ whorls 

 remaining. 



Manabe, Prov. Hidachi (Mr. Y. Hirase). T^ies No. 80,680 

 Coll. A. N. S., from No. 145 of Mr. Hirase's collection. 



This form has quite convex whorls, while they are flat in M. 

 multigranosa. The ribs are strong, especially above, as in a strongly 

 marked Goniobasis plicijh-a, and the spirals of the base are numer- 

 ous and equal. M. multigranosa Bttg. is a species closely related 

 to 31. niponica Smith, and like that, kno\\Ti only from the neigh- 

 borhood of Lake Biwa, while the present form is from Hidachi 

 province, on the east coast northward from Tokyo Bay. It is far 

 more strongly sculptured than M. reiniana, which is clearly only an 

 extreme form of M. libertine. The somewhat complex relationships 




120 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Maroh, 



of this group of species may be roughly expressed in a diagram, 

 thus: 



Few and coarse spirals ; 



strongly plicate : biwoe 



multigranosa bidacliiensis 



rciniana 



plicosa 



cancellata 



libertina 



japonica 



[ 

 I 



Many si)irals ; folds obsolete : boninensis 



M. hidachiensis is thus to be regarded as a modification of the 

 libertina stock parallel to multigranosa, without direct genetic 

 connection with the latter. 31. libertina var. plicosa is a central 

 or intermediate form, whence modification in the direction of 

 stronger folds and in the opposite direction of weaker and then 

 complete loss of folds has taken place. 



Melania libertina var. latifusns nov. ri. IX, fig. 8. 



Shell wide, with c()ni])arativcly short, conic spire and ))roduced 

 base; evenly striated throughout or with the middle smoother, 

 without a trace of longitudinal folds; olive or brown. 



Length .'>}, diani. 15, length of aperture 17 mm. 



Mino, Scttsu (Mr. Y. Hirase). 



The forms lenuisulccita and amhideiira are sim])ly variations in 

 development of the s])irals, and not of racial import. In Ameri- 

 can Melanians we now recognize that the same species is frequently 

 dimorphic, having a smooth and a spirally striate form existing 

 together in one locality, usually with all possible intervening forms. 

 The same Ls unque-stionably true of this Jajiancse species. In (he 

 varieties decussata and plicosa longitudinal fohls appear, and lead 

 the way to M. rciniana Brot, whicli is strongly plicate like Gonio- 

 basi^ plicifera of our AVest, with close spirals. Gould's de,<crij)tion of 

 M. Utirtinn ap|)lies especially to the forms with s])irals but without 

 folds, though some of the original specimens now before me have 

 the folds of ' ' plicosa. ' ' Neither of the localities ' ' Simoda and 

 Ousima" given by Gould are in China, as Brot and Kobelt suppfjse. 




1902.] NATURAL SCIEXCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 121 



Simoda (or Sliimoda) is at the southern end of the Izu peninsula and 

 ' ' Ousima ' ' is Oshima, a large island northeast of Okinawa, in the 

 " Riukiu Curve." There is also an Oshima (Izu-no-Oshinia) at 

 the mouth of the Sagami Sea, one of the " Seven Islands of Izu." 

 The name, meaning " big island," is somewhat common in Japan. 

 31. retifera Tryon is a rather small form of libertina, with some- 

 what coarse spirals but no folds. 31. hakoducUensis Hartman is 

 normal libertina with even and rather fine spirals. The types of 

 both are before me. 31. boninensis Lea, of which two of the origi- 

 nal lot, given by Lea, and several collected by Mr. S. Yoshiwara, 

 lie before me, is a dwarfed island form of the libertina stock, dis- 

 tinct by its small size and somewhat attenuated contour. It ha.s 

 erroneously been referred to a separate section of the genus by 

 some authors. 



AMNICOLID^. 



Bithynia atriatula var. japonica Pilsbry. PI. IX, figs. 9, 10, 11. 12. 

 These Proceedings for 1901, p. 40.5. 



Figs. 9, 10, 11 are from specimens of the type lot, from 

 ISIauabe, Hidachi. Fig. 12 is the smoothest specimen of a series 

 from Osaka. 



The operculum has a distinctly spiral nucleiLS in this species. 

 This feature has twice been made the basis of generic distinction, 

 but I prefer to retain the species in Bithynia until a thorough study 

 can be made of the opercula of the group. Probably several stocks 

 have independently changed from the spiral to the concentric type.* 



EXPLANATION OF PLATE IX 



Fig. 1. — Viviparvs japonicus v. Mart. Omaki, Yaniashiro. 

 Fig. 3. — Melania hidachienns Pils. ^laaabe. Hidachi. 

 Fig. 3. — Vioipanis japonicus var. Imakawa Pils. Furukawa, Rikuzen. 

 Fig. 4. — Vwiparus sclatcri Pfld. Near Kyoto. 

 Fig. 5. — Viviparus histrieus Gld. Kagoshima, Satsiima. 

 Fig. 6. — Viviparus malleatus Kve. Kagoshima, Satsuma. 

 Fig. 7. — Viviparus lanlleatus Rve. Okinawa, Kiukiu Islands. 

 Fig. 8. — Melania libertina. var. latifusus Pils. Mine, Seltsu. 

 Figs. 9, 10, 11. — Bithynia striatula var. japonica Pils. Manabe, 

 Hidachi. 

 Fig. 12. — Bithynia striatula var. japonica Pils. Osaka. 



* Dr. O. von Mollendorff has referred B. striatula to the genus Fossa- 

 rulus Neumayr, and has discussed the status of Pere Heude's Chinese 

 species in a paper which came to hand since the above was written. 

 Annuaire du Musee Zoologique de I' Academic ImperiaU des Sciences de 

 St. Petershourg, VI, 1901, Binnen-moUusken au9 West-chlua und Central- 

 asien, p. 101 (1902). 




122 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



THE GERMINATION OF THE SEEDS OF CARAPA GUIANENSIS Aubl. 

 BY JOHN W. HARSHBERGER, PH.D. 



The geuus Carapa (nat. ord. Meliaeete) comprises a number 

 of tropical forest trees with pinnate leaves and flowers borne iu 

 few- or many-flowered axillary panicles. The following species of 

 (he genus are recognized by the Index Kewensis, viz. : Carapa 

 ffuianensis Aubl. from Guiana and tropical Africa; C. mohicceiuiis 

 Lam. from the i\Ialay archipelago; C. nicaraguenais C.D.C. 

 from Central America ; C. procera D. C. from Asia and tropical 

 Africa; C. surinamensis Miq. from Guiana. Carapa molucccusU 

 is a mangrove, and Karsten has removed this species from the genus 

 Carapa, placing it under the generic name Xylocarpus. 



The fruits of the plants of the genus Carapa are spherical or 

 ovoid capsules, thick, woody, mostly warted, opening by septifragal 

 dehiscence into five valves. Tlie seeds are large, thick, angular, 

 with woody brown seed-coats (PI. VIII, figs. 1, 2, 3, 6). The 

 food substance in the form of endosperm is wanting, and the 

 cotyledons are thick and couferruminate (fig. 8a). The only 

 illustrations of the fruits and seeds of this genus, as far as the 

 writer has been able to ascertain, are those published by Engler 

 and Prantl,' where the floAvers, ovary and fruit of Carapa procera 

 D.C. are shown, but not in germination. Lubbock and Karsten 

 have studied the germination of the seeds of several related genera 

 of the .same order, Meliaceie, and the substance of their studies is 

 here briefly given by way of summing up our knowledge concern- 

 ing the sprouting of the seeds of the plants of this family. Lub- 

 bock' describes and figures the germination and seedlings of Melia 

 azedarach L. and Wakura jmcidia Roxb. In the pride of China 

 (Melia azedcrach L. ) the cotyledons are linear-oblong, obtuse, 

 narrowed to a short petiole. The first leaves are opposite, tripar- 

 tite ; the succeeding leaves are compound pinnale. The cotyledons 



^ Die naturlichen Pflamcnfamilien, III. 4, s. 277. 



'' Lubbock, Contribuliuns to our KiioieUdrjc of Seedlings, I, 335. 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 123 



leave the seed and become aerial. The cotyledons of WaUiira 

 pisddla Koxb. are fleshy, remaining in the seed. The first pair of 

 opposite leaves are reduced to small brown scales, the third to the 

 sixth are small, oval, emarginate and entire. The seventh to the 

 ninth are much larger, oval, emarginate and entire. Engler and 

 PrantP illustrate the germination of the seeds of a species of 

 Xylocarpus (Carapa moluccensis), the illustration being copied from 

 a paper by Karsten.* From the figure (-H), it would appear that 

 the cotyledons remain enclosed in the seed, the hj'pocotyl being 

 thick and fleshy. The radicular part, from which the secondary 

 roots arise, is swollen and bulb-like. The first twelve pairs of 

 leaves are opposite and scale-like. The stem arises from the point 

 where the hypocotyl emerges from the seed. The following descrip- 

 tion of the germination of the seeds of Carapa guianensis Aubl. 

 from material obtained in July, 1901, at Castleton, Jamaica, and 

 preserved in two per cent, formalin, is, therefore, given as in part 

 a contribution to the biology of the order McUacew. 



The capsule of this plant is large, about the size and shape of a 

 cocoanut. It is ridged with four prominent \\-arty-looking i-idges 

 which come together in a heavy apical protuberance. 



There are four valves, thick (^ inch) and woody, sepai-ating 

 from each other from the base upward to the apex. The capsule is 

 filled with angular seeds (figs. 1, 2, 3, 4, (i), with a smooth or 

 slightly wrinkled, brown outer seed-coat. Ten or a dozen of these 

 large seeds are snugly packed away inside the woody fruit walls. 

 Germination begins after the capsule has dehisced and while the 

 fruit still lies upon the surface of the ground beneath the parent 

 tree. The seeds start to germinate (fig. 6) before they fall out of 

 the capsule, and later they are held in place by the intricately 

 woven mass of secondary roots which grow in ail directions be- 

 tween the closely wedged seeds. The stem elongates some four to 

 six inches and emerges from the interior of the partially opened 

 seed vessel between the slightly sprung edges of the valves (figs. 

 4, 5). All of the seeds of a single capsule may germinate in situ, 

 and the complex of roots makes it a rather difficult matter to sep- 

 arate the seeds from each other after germination has once begun. 

 It would seem that the seeds lose their vitality more or less quickly 



'" Engler and Prantl, Die naturlichen Pfianzenfam., Ill, 4, 279. 

 * ICarsten, Bibliolheca Botanica, XXII, 21, Pis. 7 and 8. 




124 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



if allowed to remain for some time in a dry place. Some seeds that 

 ■were left in a cool but dry room began to lose water and to 

 decrease in weight, so that it seems that immediate germination is a 

 means of insuring the perpetuation of the species. 



The period of germination is gone through quite rapidly. The 

 seeds sprout quickly and in about a month's time the plants are a 

 foot high witli several well-developed pinnate leaves of a rich, glossy 

 green color (fig. 9). The seeds are about an inch to an inch and 

 a half in diameter with sharp angular edges (figs. 1, 3). They are 

 tetrahedra, with one of their faces, that applied to the rounded 

 interior of the capsule, with a spherical curvature (fig. .3). The 

 seed-coats arc woody and about ^ inch thick. The interior of the 

 seed Ls filled up with the fleshy conferrumiuate cotyledons, which 

 are of a yellowish-white color in section (fig. 8a). The parenchy- 

 matous cells of the cotyledonary masses are large, with compara- 

 tively thin cell walls. Sections of tlie cotyledonary tissue treated 

 with glycerine clears the material and lozenge-shaped crystalloids 

 are seen imbedded in the protoplasm of the cells (fig. 86). Other 

 sections treated with chloroform and then with iodine show these 

 crystalloids quite clearly by the browuish -yellow hue that they 

 take, the [irotoplasni staining a bright yellow color. At first it 

 was thought that glolwids were present because of the aggregated 

 rounded masses found in the cells that were treated with alcohol. 

 The application of chloroform and ether showed these masses to 

 be oily in cliaracter. The oil dissolves readily in the chloroform, 

 but tardily in the ether. In some old seeds, here and there, paren- 

 chyma cells were found to be filled with a yellowish resin-like sub- 

 stance, but more careful investigation failed to demonstrate the 

 resinous nature of thb substance. Starch is absent as a reserve 

 material from these seeds. The materials, therefore, stored in the 

 cotyledon consist of oil, protcid ])odics (crystalloids) and proto- 

 plasm. This determination is substantiated by the fact that from 

 the seeds of Carapa procera, C. guianens'us, a commercial oil is 

 obtained, having a slightly uuplea.«ant smell and a bitter taste. 

 This oil is known variously as Carapa oil, Talliconah oil, Crap 

 oil, Carap oil, Andirol)a oil, Touioucouna oil, or Coondi oil. The 

 natives of Guiana rub their bodies with it as a protection again.st 

 mosquitoes. 



Germination begins by the cracking of the testa, or outer seed- 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 125 



coat, with the lifting off of flaky pieces (figs. 4 and 5). The 

 tegmen is also broken through by the knob-like protruding por- 

 tion of the embryo (figs. 4, 5). The radicle first protrudes as a 

 roughened thick tubercidar mass about one-fourth of an inch long, 

 and from this arise six to ten secondary roots (fig. 4). The 

 plumule, which points away from the tip of the i-adicle, lies in a 

 cup-shaped depression formed by the swollen petiole-like bases of 

 the conferruminate cotyledons (figs. 7, 8a). It is about two-fifths 

 of an inch long. The base of it appears as a small knob through 

 the slit left between the bases of the cotyledons. The hypocotyl is 

 about oue-foiirth of an inch long. As the radicle grows out and 

 down, the plumide straightens out by first assuming a U-shaped 

 form (figs. 8, 8a),. Later it becomes straight and grows upright. 

 The radicle of Carapa guianensis does not assume the rounded, tuber- 

 like form of that of the mangrove plant (Xylocarpiis grariatum 

 Koen., Carapa moluccensk Lam.), figured and described by Kars- 

 ten, nor does it show the horizontal aerating roots which develop 

 vertically horn-like upgrowths with numerous lenticels for breathing 

 purposes. The germination of the seeds of these two species is 

 somewhat similar. The greatest difference lies in the formation of 

 tuber-like radicle and the pneumatodes in Carapa moluccensis, the 

 latter being developed as an adaptation to the conditions of a 

 littoral life and growth in the water. Carapa guianensis, a land 

 plant, in not possessing these structures during germination, shows 

 that it is more primitive than the tree of mangrove habit which 

 lives with its roots submerged. 



The stem of the seedling rapidly elongates, bearing at first closely 

 appres.sed scale leaves (fig. 10). After a time, there arises a pair 

 of opposite, abruptly pinnate, bijugate leaves; the stem becoming 

 woody at the base. Then succeed a pair of sub-opposite leaves 

 which are large -ind monojugate. Each leaflet has a swollen pul- 

 vinus-like base. The succeeding leaves are bijugate ; each leaflet 

 has a pulvinus and thick dark-green blade about three inches wide 

 and five inches long. 




126 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



EXPLANATION OF PLATE VIIL 



Fig. 1. — Side view of seed of Carapa guianensis Aubl. 



Fig. 2. — Idem, end view of seed. 



Fig. 3. — Seed of tetiabedral form from centre of the capsule. 



Fig. 4. — Seed witli cracked seed-coals and protruding radicle. 



Fig. 5. — Seed sUowiug roots, radicle, hypocotyl and stem papilla (p). 



Fig. 5(1. — Longitudinal section of the lower part of the embryo. 



Fig. 6. — Seed which has just started to L'erminate. 



Fig. 7. — Seed that has germinated (partially diagrammatic), showing 

 the lower bent ends of the two conferruminate cotyledons. 



Fig. 8. — Seed in natural view, showing stem bent in U-shaped manner 

 and the radicle. 



Fig. 8a. — Longitudinal section of seed and embryo, showing solution 

 of the reserve food. 



Fig. 8b. — Several parenchyma cells from ungerminated seed, showing 

 protoplasm and crystallnids. 



Fig. 9. — Phtntlet somewhat advanced. 



Fig. 10. — Plant independent of reserve food ; GOtyledonary scars 

 shown at (a). 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 127 



A COLLECTION OF MAMMALS FROM SUMATRA, WITH A REVIEW OF 

 THE GENERA NYCTICEBUS AND TEAGUHTS. 



BY WITMER STONE AND J. A. G. REHN. 



The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia has recently 

 received, through the generosity of Mr. Alfred C. Harrison, Jr., 

 and Dr. H. M. Hiller, a valuable zoological collection from Suma- 

 tra, which was made by them during their exploration of the island, 

 from August to November, 1901. 



The mammals contained in this collection form the basis of the 

 present paper. The authors are also indebted to the U. S. National 

 Museum for the privilege of examining certain specimens in con- 

 nection with their study of the genus Nycticebus, the material 

 having been loaned by Mr. Gerrit S. MUler, Jr., Assistant Curator 

 of Mammals. 



■ The Harrison and Hiller collection comprises sixty-five speci- 

 mens, secured mainly at Goenoug Soegi, Lampong District, at an 

 elevation of less than 500 feet, and partly in the highlands of 

 Padang Bovenland. at Batu Sangkar, Tanah Datar, 1,500 to 3,000 

 feet. 



Sus vittatus Mull, and Schl. 



Sus mttaius MiiU. and Schl., Vecli. I, p. 172, Pis. 29 and 32, fig. 5. 

 Two head skins and skulls, male and female, loaned for exam- 

 ination by Dr. Hiller appear to belong to this species. 



Tragulus napu (Ciiv.). 



Mosehug napu (F. Cuvier), Hist. Nat. des Mam., IV, livre 37, 

 November, 1832. 



Three specimens, Goenoug Soegi, Lampong District, October- 

 November, 1901. These agree very well with the figure in the 

 Hist. Nat. des Mam.; the color of the dorsal surface, the limbs 

 and the sides agreeing very closely, the only difference being the 

 presence of a well-defined transverse gular bar which is absent or 

 else very faintly defined in the figure. 




128 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



Tragulus kanchil (RafBes). 



1833. Moschus kanchil Kaffles, Trans. Linn. Soc. London, XIII, p. 

 262. 



The relations-hip and synonymy of this species are discussed 



below. There is one skin in the collection from Goenong Soegi, 



Lampong District. 



Revision oj the Genus Tragrihts. — The consideration of the 

 proper specific appellation for the above species has led to a study 

 of the nomenclature of the entire genus, the results of which are 

 given below. The synonymy of the Chevrotains has long been in- 

 tricately involved, although Blauford in his Mammals of British 

 India has simplified it to a considerable extent. The main faults 

 with bis revision are his failure to recognize two apparently well- 

 marked species and his misapplication of the name javanicKS. 



Exclusive of the new forms recently described by Mr. G. S. 

 Miller, Jr., which are accompanied by such detailed diagnoses and 

 exact localities that they can easily be identified, there seem to be 

 six distinct species of Tragulus from the Indo-iSIalay region. These 

 may be considered in groups as follows : 



(1) The mottled T. meminna Erxl., about which there is no con- 

 fusion. 



(2) T. stanleyanus Ciray, which is equally distinct. 



(3) The " Napi'," the largest of the group, and the one called 

 by Blanford and other authors " T. napu." 



(4) Three small species which Blanford imites under the name 

 " T. javanicus." 



One of these three is uncpieslionably the Moyehvs Javanicus of 

 Gmeliu, which has for its basis the description of Pallas, Sjiicil. 

 ZooL, XII, p. 18. And as Blanford considered the three as rep- 

 resenting but one species, lie did perfectly right in adopting this 

 name, which was apparently the oldest known to him. 



The trouble is that Osbeck, in 1765, independently described a 

 Chevrotain m-'Cervus javanicus, and by tho.^e who begin with the 

 tenth edition of Linnaius this name must be considered. Osbeck's 

 description is far from satisfactory, but applies without question to 

 a species of Tragulus.^ He comments nu the lack of horns and 

 describes the dentition of what he considers the male, though the 



' His " nine back teeih " are accounted for by (he ridges of the poste- 

 rior molars, each of 'nhith he evidently tcok for a, separate toolh I 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 129 



length of the upper canines (equal (o the incisors) indicates a 

 female, then he sayi?, " Die Farbe ist braimrothlich. Der Bock 

 . . . . ist grosser als das Thier, und hat weisse Seiten streifen, die 

 der Liinge nach laufen." 



Taken altogether there seems little doubt that he had a female of 

 the ' ' Napu ' ' and a female of the smaller Che\'rotain of Java. 

 The former from its larger size he regarded as the male, and the 

 white stripes could easily be accounted for by the whitish mottlings 

 and lighter bases to the hairs on the sides of the ' ' Napu, ' ' which 

 produce the appearance of irregular stripes when the skin is 

 wrinkled or the hair disturbed, and contrast strongly with the uni- 

 form coloration of the sides of the smaller species. 



If this view be accepted, the name T. javanicus Osbeck will have 

 to be applied to the " Napu," as the whole of Osbeck's description 

 applies to the ' ' Buch ' ' or larger of his specimens. TliLs view we 

 propose to follow. 



If, on the other hand, it is claimed that Osbeck's description is 

 not sufficiently clear to refer it to a definite .species it will neverthe- 

 less preclude the use of the InXtr javaniciis Gmelin, since Osbeck 

 certainly described some species of Chevrotain. The larger animal 

 (the " Napu") will then be known as T. napu Cuvier and the 

 smaller one as T. pela^uloe (Ham. Smith). His description ■ and 

 reference to the plate of the " Pygmy Musk" in Shaw's Natural- 

 ists' Miscellany, I, PL HI, seem to sufficiently indicate the small 

 Javan Chevrotain, Init the further description given by Blyth ' 

 leaves no doubt about the animal that he had in view. 



Whether the "Napu " of Java is identical with that of Sumatra 

 we are unable to say, but from the tendency it has to vary in each 

 island, as shown by G. S. Miller's recent papers, it seems hardly 

 likely, and we prefer to use Tragulus napti Cuvier for the Simiatran 

 animal, leaving T. javanicus Osbeck for the Javan form. Shoidd 

 they prove identical the latter name of course must prevail. 



Having disposed of the name javanicm and the two species upon 

 which it has been bestowed, we come to the consideration of the 

 relationship of the three small Chevrotains which are united under 

 " Tragulus javanicus" in Blanford's work. The Javan species we 

 have already shown must be known as Tragulus pelandoe Ham. 



^Vide Griff., Anim. Kingdom, IV, p. 66, 18 i7. 

 ^ Proc. As. Soc. Bengal, 1858, p. 377. 




130 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [March, 



Smith. The Sumatran animal, the Moschus kanchil of Raffles, 

 seems from specimens before ils to be perfectly distinct. It is well 

 described by Raffles* and by Bl}'lh/ and can always be distin- 

 guished by the fact that the two dark stripes on the throat are 

 joined together anteriorly while in T. pehnidoc they are separate, 

 never forming a complete /N. The third s^pecies which Blanford 

 has apparently failed to recognize as distinct is the Tragulus rufi- 

 venter of Gray " an animal resembling T. kanchil in pattern of 

 markings, but of a very different color, being very bright tawny 

 with nearly the whole of the belly distinctly fulvous. Gray attrib- 

 utes this species with a query to Malacca and the Indian Peninsula, 

 while a specimen, No. 642 Coll. Acad. Nat. 8ci. , acquired many 

 years ago, is simply labeled " India." 



The following table will give an idea of the relationship of the 

 several species — exclusive of those recently described by Mr. Jliller : 



a. — Body spotted, chin and throat hairy, . . . T. meminna. 

 b. — Body not spotted, chin and longitudinal strip between the rami 

 of the mandible nearly or quite naked. 

 I. — Larger, length 25 ins. or more. 



a'. — Color above brilliant orange-rufous, hairs ti]ipcd with 

 black from the shoulders back, a black median lon- 

 gitudinal stripe down the face and a dark line 

 from the eye to the nose. Hair on neck al)nve and 

 below coarse and rough. Diagonal orange lines on 

 lower neck broad and united posteriorly by a traus- 

 veree band, forming a triangle open at the apex, a 

 pale-buff band down centre of belly, branching 

 out to the ba.<e of the limbs, . . T. stanleyamis. 

 b'. — Color above blackwh with fulvous luL^es to the hairs. 

 Head and neck mixed with buff, darkest on top of 

 head, down the middle of the face and a band 

 down the nape. .Sides of body becoming nearly 

 white at base of hair with dark-brown ti]>s, re.-*t of 

 lower parts white except marks on neck, wiiich are 

 of the .same pattern as in the bust, but diagonal strijjes 



longer and narrower _ . . T. napu. 



Perhaps identical with this is ... T. javatilciis. 

 II. —Smaller, length 18-21 ins. General color yellowisli-brown 

 with black tips to the hair, lighter on sides, under parts 

 white and forelegs distinctly orange-rufous. 



* Trans. Linn. Soc, XIII, p. 202. 



' Proe. Asiat. Soc. Bengal, 1858, p. 276. 



*P. Z. S., 1836, p. 65. 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPUIA. 131 



a'. — Sides of neck, diagonal stripes and back nearly the 

 same color, top of head darker and a strongly 

 marked black longitudinal stripe on the nape from 

 the occiput to the shoulders, where it shades into the 

 general color of the back. Diagonal stripes on the 

 neck united anteriorly as well as at the base, making 

 a complete triangle, a slender brown median stripe 

 between the forelegs, T. kanchil. 



h'. — Similar, but sides of neck and diagonal stripes on lower 

 throat distinctly gray, contrasting with the yellow- 

 brown of the back, darker nape band obsolete, and 

 diagonal stripes always separated anteriorly, 



T. pelandoc. 



c'. - Very different, and smallest of the group. Prevail- 

 ing color dark orange- rufous, most of the hairs with 

 black tips, producing a rich brown ajipearance on 

 back and top of head; stripe on nape black, in 

 sharp contrast to the sides of the neck ; diagonal 

 stripes orange-rufous mingled with black-tipped 

 hairs joined anteriorly and posteriorly, leaving onlv 

 a narrow white median stripe, a transverse rufous 

 band at the base of the mandible: middlle of 

 belly imiform light orange-rufous, leaving only 

 the inside of the flanks and a spot on each side 

 at the base of the forelegs white, . T. fulviventer. 



Tragulus meminna (Erxl.). 



1777. Moschus meminna Erxl., Syst. Reg. An., p. 323. 

 1843. Meminna indica Gray, List Mam. Brit. Mus., p. 172. 



Hab. — Peninsular India and Ceylon. 



Tragulus stanleyanus (Gray). 



1836. Jloschus Stanleyanus Gray, Proc. Zool. See, p. 05. 

 Hab. — Malacca, Java. 

 Tragulus javanious (Osbcck). 



17G5. Oervns javaniciis Osbeck, Reise nacli Ostindieu unci China, p 



357. 

 1858. Tragulusfuscaivs Blylli, Jour. As. See. Benfr., XXVII, p. 278. 

 1843. Trayulus javanicus Gray, List. Mam. Brit. Mus., p. 173. 



Hab. — Java. 



Tragulus napu (F. Cuv.). 



1822. Moschus napu F. Cuv., Hist. Nat. Mam., PL 329. 



1832. Moschus jaDanicus Raffles, Trans. Linn. Soc, XIII, p. 282. 



Ha b . — Sumatra. 




132 PEOCEEDIXGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



Tragnlns pelandoo (Ham. smith). 



1837. Moschua Ptlandoc Ham. Smitli, GrifF, Anim. Kingdom, IV, p. 



GO. 

 1788. Moschus javanicus Gm., Syst. Xat., I, p. 174 (nee. Osbock). 

 Trarjulus jatanicus Aucl. 



Hab. — Java. 



Tragulus fulviventer (Gray). 



1836. Jloschiis fulcicenter GrTny, Proc. Zool. Soc, p. 05. 

 Hab. — " Malacca aud Imliau Peninsula ?" 



Tragulus nigricans Thomas. 



1892. Trnrjulus nigricans Thomas, Ann. Mag. Nat. Hist., Gth Series, 

 IX, p. 254. 



Hab. — Philippiues (no specimen examined). 



Tragulus mimenoides Hodgs. Jour. As. Soc. Bengal. 

 Tragulus malaocensis Gray, Cat. Mam., 1S13. 



These are nomina iiuda and liave no standing. 



Eusa unioolor equinus (Ciivier). 



1823. C'ervus equinus Cuvier, Ossemens Fossiles, 2d Ed., IV^, p. 4.5. 

 One skin of a young male. Gioenong Soegi. 



Mus alexandrinus GeoflViy. 



1818. Mu» alexandrinus Geoffroy, Description de I'Egypte, Mam- 

 mi feres, p. 733. 



Five specimens in rijiirit.-;. Batu Sangkar, Tanah Datar, Pa- 



dangsche Bovenland. August-September. 



Soiurus vittatns Raffles. 



1822. Sciurus vittatus Raffles, Trans. Linn. Soc, London, XIII. 

 p. 259. 



Two specimens, male and female. Batu Sangkar, Tauah Datar, 

 Padangsclie Bovenland. August or September. 



ilr. Bonhote, in liis recent review of this group,' states that the 

 red tip to the tail is a conspicuous and constant mark. Tlie male 

 of the above pair lias it, but the female has not, so that it would 

 seem to be of doubtful value as a diagnostic cliaracter. 



Sciurus prevostii harrisoni subsp. nov. 



One specimen. No. 6,651, Coll. Acad. Nat. Sci., Phila. Goe- 

 nong Soegi, I^anijiong District, Sumatra. Coll. Alfred C. IIarri.--on, 

 Jr., and Dr. H. M. Ilillcr. October-November, ItlOl. 



Apparently very similar to S. prevostii hanghimu of Schlegel, as 



' Ann. and ifag. Nat. Bist., 7lh Series, VII, pp. 444— J45. 




1902.] NATURAL SCIEXCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 133 



defined by J. L. Bonhote,* but witli slight grayish while tips to the 

 hairs of the tail, from near the base lo within about an inch of the 

 tip. Very distinct from >S'. p. rafflesi. Pure black above, bright 

 " orange-rufous " (Ridgway) below (contrasting strongly with the 

 color of rafflesi, which is nearly the " bay "of Eidgway). White 

 stripe on the side as in rafflesi, though the orange-rufous comes 

 higher up on the outside of the hind legs. Sides of face iron-gray, 

 but lighter than in rafflesi, almost white on the sides of the nose, chin 

 of the same color as the cheeks without the longitudinal black line 

 of rafflesi. A number of black hairs on the sides of the body adjoin- 

 ing the white stripe are tipped with orange-rufous, and tliose farther 

 back with white ; hairs of tail tipped with grayish- white as above 

 described. 



Dimensions as in S. p. rafflesi. 



We should hesitate to describe another race of these squirrels were 

 it not for Mr. Bonhote's statements regarding their constancy 

 within geogra])hic limits and the fact that no rufous-bellied member 

 of the group has apparently been hitherto found on Sumatra. 



The occurrence of this animal side by side with S. p. rafflesi 

 makes us strongly suspect that the two are specifically distinct, but 

 without more material it woidd be impossible to decide upon tlie 

 proper arrangement of all the members of the grout), should that 

 view be accepted. 



Soiurus prevostii rafflesii (Vigors and Horef.). 



1828. SciuruB Rafflesii Vigors and Horsf., Zool. Jour., IV, p. 113. 



Five specimens from Goenong Soegi, Lampong District. Octo- 

 ber-November. 



Funambulus insignis (Desmarest). 



1833. Sciunis insignis Desmarest, Mammalogie, II, p. 544. 



One male. Goenong Soegi, Lampong District. October and 

 November. 



This specimen seems to approach to F. i. divers^is Thomas,' being 

 indeed quite red on the sides and the white of the under part dis- 

 tinctly red-tinted. We have no other specimens for comparison, 

 however. 



^Ann. Mag. Nat. Hist... 7, VII, pp. 171, 177. 

 ^Ann. and Mag. (7), II, p. 248. 




134 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Mlirch, 



Batnfa bicolor hypoleuca (HorstieUl). 



1824. Sciuriis hypoleucoa Horsfield, Zool. Res. iu Java (pages not 

 numbered). 



One specimen. Goenong Soegi, Lampong District. October 

 and November. 



Ai3 compared with two Javan examples, this specimen seem,s quite 

 distinct. It is decidedly lighter, the central dorsal region being 

 straw color instead of dull ochraceous, the rump pale-brown with 

 ochraceous hairs interspersed instead of blackish-brown with silvery 

 hairs ; the under fur of the upper parts is smoky-gray instead of 

 blackish-brown, and the ventral surface almost pure white instead 

 of tinged with pale ochraceous. 



Horsfield' s specimen came from Sumatra and seems to agree with 

 the one in hand. 



Eatufa affinis (Raffles). 



1832. Sciarus affinis Raffles, Tians. Linn. Soc , Loudon, XIIF, p. 

 259. 



Two specimens, male and female. Goenong Soegi, Lampong 

 District. October and November. 



Tlie male is darker than the female, esi)e('ially the tail, which is 

 nearly chocolate color instead of ochraceous brown ; the white of 

 the head is also more clearly defined. 

 Tupaia tana Rallies. 



1822. Tupaia tana Raffles, Trans. Liun. Soc, London, XIII, p. 257. 



Six specimens. Goenong Soegi, Lampong District. October 

 and November. 



These specimens seem to be all referable to the above species, 

 altliough they present considerable variation iu color and size. 



Tlie largest is nearly black above witli an underlying tint of 

 maroon, while the hairs of the head and shoulders are finely annu- 

 lated with buff; below it is dull maroon, the tail a brighter shade 

 of the same. 



Another nearly tiie .same size is lighter above with the buff 

 annulations prevailing over the shoulders, and extending back 

 nearly to the tail on some of the hairs. Tail bright maroon above 

 and below, imder parts bright tawny with a tinge of maroon. 



Two small specimens, apparently young, have a slill greater 

 admixture of buff on the head, shouldei's and back, while the 

 under parts are more tinged witli buff. The skulls are much 

 shorter with the protruding maxillaries le<s developed. 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 135 



Galeopithecus volans (Linn.). 



Five specimens of this interesting animal were obtained. They 

 exhibit some variation in the oolor of the bacli, one being distinctly 

 browner than the others, but without material for comparison it 

 would be impossible to say whether they are identical with speci- 

 mens from other parts of the Malay region. The nomenclature of 

 the animal is somewhat involved, and a number of proposed names 

 would have to be considei'ed if a subdivision should be deemed 

 desirable. Geoffroy '" proposed three species, ruftig, variegatus and 

 ternatensis. The descriptions are very brief and for only one is the 

 type locality given, i.e., T. variegatm from Java. G. ternatensis 

 is based upon Seba's plate, which was also in part the basis of 

 Linnaeus' Lemur volans. 



Temminck, in the introduction of hLs Monogr. Mammalium, 

 states that there are only two species of Galeopithecu-i, and that 

 Geoffroy' s three species are not valid. He does not, however, 

 name his " two species." 



Fischer also recognizes two species, calling the Malay one volans 

 and the Philippine one variegatus Geof . , in spite of the fact that 

 the latter name was based on a Javan specimen ! He also mentions 

 that Temminck recognized two species, " G. variegatus, from Java 

 and islands of the Indian Archipelago, and G. marmoratus, from 

 Sumatra and Borneo." Where Temminck described G. marmo- 

 ratus we have been unable to discover, though Wagner in Schreber's 

 Saugthiere, 8uppl. I, p. 324, says " fauna japon. auct. Siebold." 



Blainville, in his Osteographie, fasc. 3, p. 48, also quotes Tem- 

 minck' s two species giving the latter one as " macrurus .'" 



WaterhoiLse first clearly separated the Philippine species as G. 

 philippensis," and at the same time named the species of the Indian 

 Archipelago G. temmincH. 



Wagner in Schreber's Saugthiere also proposes G. imdaius for an 

 animal which he thinks may be the same as G. marmoratus Temm. 

 The Sumatran animal, if distinct, should bear Wagner's name, 

 unless it is found that Temminck actually did publish a'diagnosis of 

 his G. marmoratus. The other names, it seems to us, must all^ be 

 regarded as synonyms of G. volaiis lAan., except, of ^course, G. 

 philippensis Waterhouse. 



'» Cours d' Eist. Nat., 1839, p. 37. 

 "P. Z. S., 1838, p. 119. 




136 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



Fteropus vampyrus (Linnseus). 



1758. [ Vespertilio'] vampyrus Linnseus, Syst. Nat., X ed., p. 31. 



Six .specimens, five iu spirits, one skin. Batu Sangkar, Tanah 

 Datar, Padaugsche Bovenland. August or September. 



One skin. Groenong Soegi, Lampong District. October or 

 November. 



Cynopterus titthaecheilus (Temminck). 



1827. P/eropiis tittlmchcilus Temminck, Monogr. Mamui., I, p. 198. 



Two alcoholic specimens. Batu Sangkar, Tanah Datar, Pa- 

 dangsche Bovenland. August or September. 



One alcoholic specimen. Goenong Soegi, Lampong District. 

 October or November. 



Pipistrellns tenuis (Temminck). 



1827. Vespertilio tenuis Temminck, Monogr. JIanim., II, p. 229. 



One alcoholic specimen. Batu Sangkar, Tanah Datar, Pa- 

 dangsche Bovenland. August or September. 



One alcoholic specimen. Goenong Soegi, Lampong District. 

 October or November. 



Felis bengalensia Kerr. 



1792. Felis bengalcnsia Kerr, Animiil Kingdom, p. 151. 

 Three kittens in spirits. Batu Sangkar, Tanah Datar, Pa- 

 dangsche Bovenland. August or September. 



Arctogale leuootis BIyth. 



1851. llorsliold's Catalogue, East India Mus., p. C6. 

 One adult male. 



Putorius nndipes F. Cuv. 



1823. Putorius nndtpcs F. Cut., Mam. Lith., Ill, PI. 149. 

 1868. Oi/mtiopus leucocephalus Gray, P. Z. S., p. 110. 



One specimen of a bright golden-yellow with grayish-white head. 

 From Lampong District. 



This animal is unquestionably the leucocephalus of Gray, and 

 since he refers to Cuvier's earlier name I have no- doubt but they 

 are identical, though I have not been able to consult ('u\-ier's plale. 



Revision of the Genus Nyctix:ehns. — The identification of llie 

 specimens of Slow Loris in the collection has led to a study of the 

 several allied species and the nomenclature of the genus, with .«on)e 

 intcre.-itiug results. 



These I^emurs fall naturally into two very distinct groujis : ( 1 ) 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 137 



The Slender Lori.s, " Lor is gracilis" of most authors; and {2) the 

 Slow Loris and its allies, " Nydicebus tardigradus " Auct. 



The first specific name to be proposed for any of them was Lemur 

 tardigradus.^' This was based upon the following references: 



(1) L. ecaudatus, 3Ius. Ad. Fr., I, p. 3. 



(2) Simia ecaudata uuguibus iudicis subulatis." 



(3) Animal cynocephaliuu tai'digradum." 



(4) Animal elegantissimmn robinsonii.'" 



The first reference seems to refer exclusively to the Slender Loris, 

 the habitat being Ceylon and the characters given ' ' naso produc- 

 tiore brachiis manibus pedibusque longis teuuibus. 



The second is a mere catalogue name. Under the third come 

 two plates of Seba with long descriptions ; the first imquestionably 

 refers to the Slender Loris, while, although the text to the second 

 plate seems to refer in part to the Slow Loris, the figure itself looks 

 more like the Slender Loris. 



The last reference is again the Slender Loris from "Ceylon," 

 and the produced rostrum is especially mentioned. 



It will thus be seen that, with the exception of the second plate 

 of Seba, which is of rather doubtful application, all of the quota- 

 tions upon which Lemur tardigradus Linn, are based refer to the 

 Slender Loris, ' ' L. gracilis ' ' Auct. , and it is remarkable that the 

 name should have been so universally applied to the Nydicebus. 



Another important point brought out in our investigation is the 

 failure of apparently all authors to consider Boddaert's observations 

 on these animals, Elenchus animalium, p. 67 (1784). He there 

 proposes a genus Tardigradus with two species, T. loris = Slender 

 Loris and T. coucang = Slow Loris, and correctly refers Lemur 

 tardigradus Linn, to the former. 



As this is the first attempt to establish a separate genus for these 

 animals, the name Tardigradus must be adopted for the Slender 

 Loris. Furthermore, coucang being the first name proposed for 

 the Slow Loris must be adopted for it. 



Geoffrov did not propose his genus Loris until 1796, in Magasin 

 Encyclopedique, Vol. I, pp. 48-49. This work being inaccessible 

 to us, we are indebted to Mr. Outram Bangs for a transcript of 



'^Linnjeus, Syst. Nat., X, p. 29. 



" Sijst. Nat., 5, n. 2. 



»St6. Mas., I, p. 55, t. 35, f. 1, 3 ; t. 47. f. 1. 



^^Ray. Quad., p. 161. 




138 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



the reference, from a copy in the Boston Public Library. From 

 this it seems that Loris Geoff, is a synonym of Tardigradiis Bodd. , 

 being based upon the same two animals, L. firacilis = Slender 

 Loris and L. tai-digradus = Slow Loris. Although Geoftroy 

 imdoubtedly had the Slow Loris in mind for his second species, 

 as shown by his reference to Vosmaer, whose jilate is excellent, 

 nevertheless in referring it to L. tardigradus Ijinn. he originated 

 the unfortimate error which has been almost uuivei'sally followed 

 by subsequent authors. The genus Nydicebus proposed by Gcoffroy 

 in 1812 was imquestionably based upon the Slow Loris, and will 

 hold for it and its allies, unless Bradycebus Cuv. et Geoffr. is avail- 

 able. Their genus is said to be published in Mem. Class. 3Iamm. 

 and in 3fag. Encyclop., but we have not yet been able to locate it. 

 We shall have then the following synonymy for these genera : 



TARDIGEADUS Bodd. 



1784. Tardigradus Bodd., Elenchus Anim., p. 67 (type T. loris 



Bodd. = Lemur tardigradus Liun.). 

 1790. Loris Geoff.. Mag. Encyclop., I, pp. 48-49. 

 1811. Stenops lUig., Prodroin. Syst. Mam. el Avium, p. 73. 



NYCTICEBUS Geofl. 



1813. Nycticebus Geoff., Ann. dii Mus. Paris, XTX, p. Ifi3. Type. 

 ? 1795. Bradycebus Cuv. et Geoffr , Mem. Class. Mamm. 



After studying a number of specimens, partly from the Acad- 

 emy's collection and partly loaned by the U. S. National ^[^seum 

 through ilr. G. S. Miller, Jr., A.ssistant Curator of ^lummals, it 

 appears that the variation in the Slow Lemurs, recognized by 

 Anderson and Blanford as simply varietal, is worthy of a more 

 definite treatment. 



It would seem from the material at our disposal that there are 

 five distinct forms, which we woidd regaril as subspecies rather than 

 as species, as they are obviously geographic races of one sjiecies. 

 The N. menagensis of the Philippines has not been considered, as 

 no specimens are available and it is therefore imp<ji5sible to judge of 

 its relationship with the Malayan group. 

 The forms may be distinguished as follows : 

 a. — General color ashy-gray, slightly tinged with rufous. Crown 

 of head without an extensive patch of bmwn. 

 b. — Head with indistinct lines extending to the eyes and ears. 

 Dorsal line fading away on crown of head, 



roucang Boddaert. 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 139 



bb. — Head with four clistiuct lines extending to a common 

 centre on the crown of the head. Dorsal line distinct 

 on the crown of head, . . c. javanicus E. Geoffroy. 

 aa. — General color rufescent gray. Crown of head with a consid- 

 erable blotch of brown. 

 b. — ^General tint pale rufescent; dorsal line and crown patch 

 not very distinctly marked and of a rufous tint, the 

 latter involving the ears, . c. makiianus Anderson. 

 bb. — General tint deep rufescent; dorsal line and crown patch 

 very distinct and of a deep chestnut tint, the latter 

 not involving the ears, . . . c. natamc n. subsp. 

 bbb. — General color chestnut rufescent, more or less washed 

 with gray; dorsal line very distinct, deeply colored; 

 crown patch large, fading into the general surromiding 

 tint, c. hillcri n. subsp. 



Regarding the Tenasserim form'" we can say nothing, as no speci- 

 mens from that region are available. 



Nycticebus oouoang hilleri n. subsp. 



1822. Lemur iardigradua Raffles (not of Linii.), Trans. Linu. Soc. 

 London, XIII, p. 247. 



Type, d*, No. 6,590, Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. Batu Sangkar, 

 Tanah Datar, Padangsche Bovenland, Sumatra. August or Sep- 

 tember, 1901. Collected and presented by Mr. A. C. Harrison, 

 Jr., and Dr. H. M. Hiller. 



Distribution. — Specimens from the type locality only have been 

 examined, but it is possible the form is found throughout the island. 



Characters. — This form is most nearly related to ntalain.us and 

 javanicus, but differe from the former in the much more strongly 

 marked dorsal line, and in the predominance of chestnut-brown and 

 not ochraceoius in the general tint. From javanicus it differs iu the 

 much less definite head bars, iu the broad cro\vn patch and in the 

 gradual transition from the latter to the surrounding tint. 



Color. — General color of the upper parts reddish-cinnamon 

 (between Ridgway's russet and cinnamon), more or less washed 

 with ecru, (he more noticeable toward the extremities. Dorsal line 

 very distinct, seal-brown and more or less visible to the caudal 

 region. Crown patch broad, mars brown with the four head bars 

 not well marked, all merging gradually into the general hoary tint 

 which suffuses the head ; eyes surrounded by the customary black 

 ring ; interocular stripe clear while ; cheeks whitish, sometimes 



1' Vide Blansford, Mamm. Brit. Ind., pp. 45 and 4<j. 




140 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Marcb, 



slightly suffused with blackish-gray. General color of the lower 

 surface pale fawn, throat whitish. 



Specimens examined. — Three in spirits, all from the type locality. 



Nycticebus couoang javanicus (E. Geoffroy). 



1812. JVycticebus javanicus E. Geofrroy, Ann. du Museum, XIX, p. 

 164. 



Type locality and distribution. — Java. 



Two specimens examined : Java, Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 



Nyotioebus couoang natunae u. subsp. 



1894. Ni/cticebiis tardigradus Thomas and Ilartert, Kovitates Zoolog- 

 !c;e, I, p. 655. 



1895. JYycticebus tardigradus Thomas and Ilartert, Novitates Zonl- 

 ogicir, II, p. 489. 



1901. Nycticebus tardigradus MWiGT, Proc. Wash. Acad. Sci., Ill, p. 

 138. 



Type, d", No. 104,509, United Slates National Museum, Bun- 

 garan, Natuna Islands, July 28, 1900. Collected and presented 

 by Dr. W. L. Abbott. 



Distribidion. — As far as known only the type locality. 



Characters. — Comparison of this form with any others of the 

 species is imnecessary as the color and pattern are quite distinctive. 



Color. — (ieneral color of the upper parts ridi russet brown (close 

 to mars brown of Kidgway), palest on the limbs, strongest on the 

 shoidders. Dorsal line rich vandyke brown, tending toward seal 

 brown, the stripe brown on the shoulder, decreasing in wiilth and 

 intensity posteriorly, becoming almost obsolete ou the rump ; general 

 tint on each side of the dorsal line is overcast with a silvery 

 " bloom," which is cau.«ed by the tips of the hairs being of that 

 tint." Crown patch broad, rich burnt umber, extending from ear 

 to ear, but not involving them, anteriorly sending a broad bar to 

 the upper margin of the customary black ocular rings; cheek.s 

 suffuseil with dusky brown. Anterior limbs with the extremities 

 inucli lighter in color than the remainder of the limbs. Ix)wer 

 surface pale cinnamon, throat silvery white. 



Specimens examined. — One, the type. 



" The hair on all the dorsal surface is more or less tipped with silvery, 

 but this chaniclcr is much more apparent in the portion mentioned 

 above. The presence of the silver}' sutfusion near the dorsal line is 

 shared hy jacanieus, but in that form distinct longitudinal bars are formed. 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 141 



Nyoticebus coucang (Boddaert). 



1783. Tardigradas coucang Boddaert, Elenclius Animalium, p. 67. 



1813. Nyctkebus hengalensis £. Geoffroy, Ann. du Museum, XIX, 

 p. 164. 



1867. Nycticehxis cinereus Milne-Edwards, Nouv. Arcliiv. du Mu- 

 seum Bull., Ill, p. 11. 



Type locality. — Bengal. 



Distribution. — According to Anderson," this form is found from 

 Assam through Upper Buniia to Siam. 



No specimens are available for examination. 



Nyotioebus coucang malaianus (Anderson). 



1881. Ki/cticebus tardigradus var. malaiana Anderson, Catal. Jlamni. 

 Ind. Mu8., I, p. 95. 



Type locality. — None stated. 



Distribution. — Chittagong, through Arakan at least as far south 

 as Tringauu, Lower Siam. 



Two specimens examined: "Bengal," Acad. Nat. Sci. Pliila. ; 

 Trmgann, Malay Peninsula, U. S. N. M. 



Semnopitheous melalophos (Raffles). 



1833. Simia melalophos Raffles, Trans. Linn. Soc, London, XIII, 

 p. 215. 



Two specimens in spirits. Batu Sangkar, Tanah Datar, Pa- 

 dangsche Bovenland. August or September. These specimens still 

 retain the milk dentition, and the dusky suffusion of the upper 

 parts extends along the upper surface of the tail. 



One skin. Goenong Soegi, Lampong District. October or 

 November. 



This specimen has the upper parts much lighter and more uui- 

 formly colored than the alcoholic specimens. 



Semnopitheous maurus (Schreber). 



1775. Simia maura Schreber, Siiugtliiere, I, p. 107, PI. XXII B. 

 Two skins. Goenong Soegi, Lampong District. October and 

 November. 



Semnopitheous mitratus (Esch.). 

 .Adult female and young. Lampong. 



" Catal. Mamm. Ind. Afiis., I, p. 95. 




142 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



Symphalangus" syndaotylus (Raffles). 



1822. Siniia syndactyla Raffles, Trans. Linn. Soc. London, XIII, 

 p. 241. 



One old male, preserved entire in spirits. Eatu Sangkar, Tanai 

 Datar, Padangsehe Bovenland. August or September. .Vud two 

 males and a female, Goenong Soegi. October and Kovember. The 

 first specimen measm-es : 



Length, crown to anus, 5ol mm. 



Extreme reach from tip of longest fingers (approxi- 

 mately), 1536 mm. 



Length of forearm, 309 mm. 



"For the adoption of Symplialangua Gloger [Iland.-u. SilJ'sb. Nahir- 

 gesch., I, p. 34, 1841) in place of Siamanga Gray {List. Mam. Brit. Mus., 

 p. 1, 1843), see Palmer, Science, n. s., X, p. 493, 1899. 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 143 



MAMMALS COLLECTED BY DR. W. L. ABBOTT IN THE REGION OF 

 THE INDRAGIRI RIVER, SUMATRA. 



BY GEEEIT S. MILLER, JR. 



During Augu.st aud September, 1901, Dr. W. L. Abbott vis- 

 ited the ludragiri river, eastern Sumatra, and the two large islands 

 opposite its mouth, Linga and Sinkep. The valuable collections 

 which he secured were all jiresented to the United States National 

 Museum. This paper contains an account of the mammals, and is 

 published here by permission of the Secretary of the Smithsonian 

 Institution. 



Linga Island was visited by Dr. Abbott and Mr. C. Boden Klott 

 in July, 1899. At this time nine species of mammals were ob- 

 tained:' Tragulm " napu" (= T. pretiosus), Sciurus tenuis, S. 

 notatus, Mas I'lwjensis, Tupaia tana, T. malaccana, Pteropus 

 vampyrus, Macacus " cynomolgus," and Semnopithecus maurits. 

 In 1901 the list was nearly doubled by the addition of Tragulus 

 javanieus, Sus vittatus, Ratufa notabilis, Rhinoseiurus laticaudatus, 

 Mus fremens. Mils finnus, Viverra tanglunga aud Arctogalidia 

 simplex. The presence of all of the.<e, except the Rhinoseiurus and 

 the two rats, was, however, suspected during the earlier visit. 



Hitherto the mammal fauna of Sinkep Island has been quite 

 imkuowu ; and I cannot find that any of the accoimts of the 

 mammals of Sumatra refer specifically to the region of the Indragiri 

 river. 



Mauls javanica Desmarest. 



An adult female was dug from a burrow in a hillside on Sinkep 

 Island, Sejitember 1, 1901. Total length, 440; head and body, 

 220; tail, 220. Weight, 4.7 kg. The uterus contained a foetus 

 92 mm. in length. In this specimen the tail measures only 25 mm. 

 The outlines of the scale are clearly marked on head, body and 

 tail, but very indistinctly on the legs. 

 Tragulus javanieus (Gmelin). 



Five .skins from Sinkep Island aud eleven skins aud three speci- 

 mens in formalin from Linga. Traguli of this and the two follow- 



1 Miller, Proc. Washington Acad. 8ci., II, p. 24i, August 20, 1900. 




144 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



ing species were trapped io the jungle by natives and brought in 

 considerable numbers for sale. 



The series from the two islands show veiy little individual varia- 

 tion. The constancy of coloring in this species as compared with 

 the extreme plasticity of the napu is very striking, particularly 

 when it is remembered that the ranges of the two coincide, and 

 that the annuals are evervwhere exposed to like conditions of envi- 

 ronment. 

 Tragulus pretiosus sp. nov. 



1900. Trafjiilus napu Miller, Proc. Wasliington Acad. Sci., II, p. 

 327, August 20, 1900. Not of F. Cuvier. 



yy^,e.— Adult male (.skin and skull), No. 113,031 United States 

 National ]Museuiu. Collected on Linga Island, South China Sea, 

 August 27, 1901, by Dr. W. L. Abbott. Original number 1,238. 



Characters. — A richly colored yellowish member of the napu 

 group. Throat markings normal, the anterior white strij)cs not 

 elongated or margined with black, the dark stripes brown. Neck 

 yellowish-brown with narrow median black stripe. Belly heavily 

 shaded with yellowish-brown. 



Color. — Upper parts orange-ochraceous darkening toward ochra- 

 ceous-rufous on sides of ueck and outer surface of legs, and light- 

 ening to orange-buff on sides of body, the haii-s everywhere ecru- 

 drab at base and black at tip. The black tips are most conspicuous 

 over middle of back, wliere they produce a heavy dark shading 

 slightly in exces-s of the orange-ochraceous. Ou sides oi body they 

 are much less noticeable, and on sides of ueck and head and outer 

 surface of legs would readily pas-s unnoticed. Crown and median 

 line of neck black, the latter noticeably sprinkled with ochraceous- 

 rufous. Throat markings normal, the hairs of the dark bands 

 blackish at base and heavily annulated with dull ochraceous-rufous. 

 Collar narrow but distinct, its color like that of sides of body. 

 Under parts behind throat markings mostly orange-buft mixed with 

 drab. There is always, however, a ])ure white patch on chest 

 between front legs, and another in hypogastric region between hind 

 legs, the former generally continuous with narrow white line on 

 inner side of leg, the latter always so. The two white patches 

 occa,-ionally spread toward each other so that they meet along 

 median line. Tail rather dull ochraceous-rufous above, pure white 

 below and at tip. 




1902.] N4:tURAL sciences of PHILADELPHIA. 145 



Skull and Teeth. — The skull aud teeth are similar to those of 

 Tragulus canescens. The supposed peculiarities' of the first speci- 

 men obtained by Dr. Abbott prove to be merely the result of senile 

 chatiges. 



Measurements. — External measurements of type: Total length, 

 625; head aud body, 545; tail vertebra?, 80; hind foot, 142; 

 hind foot without hoofs, 125. Weight, .3.4 kg. Average of five 

 specimens from the type locality: Total length, 654 (625-670); 

 head aud body, 566 (545-580); tail vertebr*, 88 (80-95); hind 

 foot, 141 (140-142); hind foot without hoofs, 126 (12.5-127); 

 weight, .3.7 (3.1-4..3). 



Spenmens Examined.— Ten (one in alcohol), all from Liiiga 

 Island. 



Remarh. — E.Yamination of the extensive series of Tragulm in 

 Dr. Abbott's second Linga collection convinces me that I was wrong 

 in referring the specimen obtained during his first visit to the island 

 to T. napn.^ The reasons are briefly as follows: The animal 

 describetl and figured by F. Cuvier was much more gray than the 

 Linga species ; the outermost of the white throat stripes was con- 

 siderably longer, extending " beyond the cheeks;" and both of the 

 lateral white stripes were bordered with black. The throat pattern 

 is now known to be so constant in each local form of this group 

 that the very striking characters mentioned by Cuvier cannot be 

 regarded as due to mere individual variation. Finally, the marked 

 differences between the napu of Linga and that of the neighboring 

 island of Sinkep furnish additional ground for the belief that a 

 third form occurs in Sumatra. 

 Tragulus nigrioolUs sp. nov. 



Tupc.~Xd\i\t male (skin aud skull). No. 113,121 United 

 States National Museum. Collected on Sinkep Island, South China 

 Sea, September 6, 1901, by Dr. \V. L. Abbott. Original num- 

 ber 1,292. 



Characters. — Similar to Tragulus pretiosus but slightly larger; 

 color of body lighter, but neck and dark throat markings black,' 

 inconspicuoiLsly speckled with brown. 



Color. — General color as in Tragulus pretiosus, but ground tint 

 everywhere a shade less yellow, that of the sides scarcely darker 



'' See Proc. Biol. Soc. Washington, XIII, p. 186, December 21 1900 

 " Proc. Washington Acad. SeL, II, p. 227, August 20, 11)00. 

 10 




146 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



than the creain-buft of Ridgwav. The black clouding of the back is 

 never in excess of the orange-ochraceous. As if to compensate 

 for the relative lack of black on the body, the entire neck is of 

 this color, as in Trai/idus bunguranensis, its uniformity scarcely 

 broken by an inconspicuous speckling due to the presence of a 

 narrow yellowish-brown auiiulation on many of the hairs. These 

 annulations are more numerous at sides of neck, but a few may be 

 found even along median line. Throat markings normal and 

 exactly similar to those of Tragulus pretiosits, except that the dark 

 streaks are black, speckled with yellowish-brown to about the same 

 extent as sides of neck. Collar well defined and coarsely grizzled, it* 

 light ground color nearly the same as that of sides of body though 

 a trifle more yellow. 



Skull and Teeth. — Except for their slightly greater size the skull 

 and teeth of Tragulus nigricollui do not differ ap])reciably from 

 those of T. pretiosiis, though there apjiears to be a tendency toward 

 greater narrowness in the general form of tlie skull. 



Measurements. — External mea,«urements of type: Total length, 

 620; head and body, .")40; tail vertebrse, .SO; hind foot, 138; hind 

 foot without hoofs, 123. Weight, 4 kg. Average of five speci- 

 mens from the type locality: Total length, 647 (620-670); head 

 and body, 566 (r)40-r)90j; tail vertebrje, 81.6 (77-85 J; hind 

 foot, 142 (138-147); hind foot without hoofs, 126 (123-130). 

 Weight, 4.4 kg. (4-4.6). 



Cranial mea.surements of type: Greatest length, 116 (108);* 

 basal length, 109 (101); basilar length, 104, (95); oecipito-nasal 

 length, 108 (99); length of nasals, 34 (33.6); dia.-;tema, 11 

 (10); zygomatic breadth, 50 (49); least interorbital breadth, 31 

 (29); mandible, 92 (88); maxillary toothrow (alveoli), 40 (36); 

 mandibular tootlirow (alveoli), 45.4 (42). 



Specimens Examined. — Five, all from .Sinkep Island. 



Remarks. — In general api>earance Tragulus nigricolli-'< more 

 closclv resembles the blaek-necked T. bungunmeif^is than it does 

 T. pretiosxts. It is readily separable fi-(im the Bunguran animal by 

 its somewhat paler general coloration ami by its normal throat 

 markijigs. The series shows no individual variation worthy of 

 note, except that in one sj^ecimeu (d', No. 113, 124 j the white 



•Measurements in parentheses are those of the type of TVagulut 



pretioius. 




1902.] NATUKAL 8C•Ii;^CiilS OF PHlLrAUi-Li-UlA. 147 



throat stripes are iuternipted by the brown, produeing a pattern 

 suggestive of that of T. bunguranemU. 



Sus vittatus MiiUer and Schlegel. 



A female pig from Liuga Island and a similar spcciiueu from the 

 Indragiri river, Sumatra, appear to be referable to the Sumatran 

 representative of Sus vittalm. The)- are small animals, scarcely 

 exceeding Sas nicobarensis in size, therefore quite distinct from 8us 

 cristatus. 

 Sus oi Miller. 



1902. Sus oi Miller, Proc. Biol. Soc. WasUinirton, XV, p. 51 March 

 5, 1903. ° . 1 . 



The discovery of the nang-oi, the Sumatran rejiiesentative of 

 Sus barbatus and Stis longirostris, is one of the most interesting 

 results of Dr. Abbott's work in the East Indies. The animal is 

 among the largest of wild pigs, the type specimen, an adult but not 

 aged boar, weighing 113 kg. (250 lbs.). Its mea.surements are as 

 follows: Total length, 1,870; head and body, 1,575; tail, 295; 

 height at shoulder, 850; height at rump, 800; ear from meatus, 

 88 ; ear from crown, if? ; width of ear, 75. Skull : Greatest 

 length, 4.S0; basal length, 405; zygomatic breadth, 162. 

 Although only one specimen was secured, the nang-oi is abundant 

 in the forests and sago plantations along the banks of the Indi'agiri 

 river. Its footprints may always be distinguished from those of 

 Sus vittatus by their much greater size. 

 Katufa palliata sp. nov. 



Type.— Adult male (skin and skull). No. 113,162 United 

 States National Museum. Collected on the Indragiri river, eastern 

 Sumatra, September 23, 1901, by Dr. W. L. Abbott. Original 

 number 1,327. 



Characters. —In general similar to Ratvj'u bicolor of Java, but 

 yellow areas less bright, blackish of tail appearing conspicuously at 

 surface, and whole back from shoulders to hips light yellowish 

 brown in striking contrast with blackish thighs, neck and outer 

 surface of front legs. Skull with nasals shorter and broader than 

 in the Javan animal. 



Color. — Back and sides uniform cream-buff a little tinged with 

 clay color, especially along median dorsal region. Posteriorly this 

 darkens abruptly through dull ochraceous-rufous to the clear 

 blackish-brown of thighs and outer surface of hind legs. In 




148 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Marcb, 



median Hue the <iull ochraceous-rufous extends between thighs to 

 cover about 100 nini. of base of tail. Anteriorly the light mantle 

 darkens much more gradually through the .<ame dull ochraceous- 

 rufous to the dark reddish-brown neck and blackLsh outer surface 

 of front legs. Forehead and anterior portion of crown like man- 

 tle. At region just in front of ears the abrupt change takes place 

 to color of neck. Under parts, cheeks, sides of neck and inner 

 surface of limbs light yellow. The exact shade is very nearly the 

 cream-buff of Ridgway (like that of mantle, but without the tinge 

 of clay color), except ou chesi, throat and inner surface of front 

 legs, where it brightens to buff. On belly the cream-buff is some- 

 what obscured by the appearance at surface of the dark slate-gray 

 basal portion of hairs. Feet blackish-brown, the cream- buff of 

 inner surface spreading conspicuously over wrist and forearm, and 

 slightly just below ankle and on outer edge of .*olc. Tail (excejit 

 proximal 100 mm.) dark bistie throughout, the hairs everywhere 

 witli whitish cream-buff tijis, 1U-1.~) mm. in length. These tips 

 nowhere conceal the bistre, which by contrast appears nearly black. 

 On under surface thcv arc so arranged as to form a grizzled yellow- 

 ish-white boi-dor t(i the clear bistre median stri]ie. Above they 

 cover the surface almost uniformly, producing a frosted ajipearance, 

 throusrh which mav be detected a faint indication nf dark cros.-* 

 bars, ten of which are distinguishable in favorable light. 



Shill and Teeth. — Skull similar to that of Ralufa hicolor, but 

 braincase more archeil and rostrom shorter. The nasals are dis- 

 tinctly broader posteriorly, and as a result the nasal branches of the 

 premaxillaries are narrower. Teeth as in Rntufa hicolor and R. 

 mclatiopephi. 



Measurement. — External measurements of type: Total length, 

 770; hcail and body, .'>4") ; tail vertebra^, 4J-') ; hind fool, <H4 ("'<). 



Cranial measurements of type: Greatest length, 08 ((>!•) ;' basal 

 length, 57 (58) ; basilar length, 53 (54) ; length of niusals (along 

 median suture), 21 (-o)'- breadth of both na.saK« together ante- 

 riorly, 12 (l-?); breadth of both nasals together jwsteriorly, 9 (5); 

 least inlerorbital breadth, 29 (27); zygomatic breadth, 42 (43); 

 mandible, 42 (45); maxillary molar series (alveoli), 12. S (13); 

 mandibular molar .series (alveoli), 13.8 (14). 



'Measurements in parentheses are those of iin adult female Ratufa 

 bicolor from western .Tava. 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 149 



Speeimem Examined. — Three, the type; also two other specimens 

 from Sumatra, exact locality not known. 



Bemarhs. — The three specimens show no marked variation in 

 color. The type is rather lighter than either of the others, both of 

 which are in somewhat worn pelage. Both of these have the base 

 of the tail nearly black, and in one the pale mantle is divided by 

 an indistinct dark-brown dorsal line about 30 mm. in breadth. In 

 Ratufa bicolor the back is black, thickly sprinkled with yellowish- 

 white hair tips, particularly on posterior half. There Ls thus no 

 indicalion of the pale mantle of R. palliata. The tail in the 

 Javan animal is clear buff above, the black ba.ses of the hairs not 

 appearing at sui'face except at tip. The Javan and Sumatran 

 forms are, therefore, readily distinguishable, 

 ilatufa affinis (Raffles). 



Twelve specimens from Sinkep Island. These are not distin- 

 guishable from true Ratufa affinis, but the material representing 

 the latter is not wholly satisfactory and the Sinkep form may event- 

 ually prove to be distinct. 



Batufa hypoleona (Horsfield). 



1824. Sciurus ht/polcncos Horsfield, Zoological Besearches in Java 

 and the neighboring islands (pages not numbered). 



Three adults (c?, Xo. 113,103; (f, No. 113,164, and ?, No. 

 113,165) were takeu in heavy forest on the banks of the ludragiri 

 river, September 24, 1901. They represent a whitish-beDied 

 species closely related to Ratufa uffiiiis, but readily distinguishable 

 by the darker ground color of the upper parts (approximately cin- 

 namon in hypoleuca, Isabella color in affinis) and by the grayish- 

 white cheeks and face which form a strong contrast with the crown 

 and sides of neck. As the type of Horsfield" s Sciurus hypoleucos 

 was obtained by Raffles, it was probably taken near Bencoolen, on 

 the southwest coast tif Sumatra. It is not inijirohalile, therefore, 

 that the Indragiri form may prove to be distinct, though so far as 

 can be determined from the original description Dr. Abbott's 

 specimens closely resemble those examined by Horsfield. The 

 measurements of the three individuals are as follows (arranged in 

 order as above) : Total length, 705, 700 and 700 ; head and body, 

 330, 320 and 330; tail vertebrse, 375, 380 and 370; hind foot, 

 77, 78 and 79; hind foot without claws, 70, 71 and 73. Cranial 

 measurements of adult male (No. 113,163): Greatest length, 62 




150 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Miirch, 



(61);" basal length, 52.4 (.32); basilar length, 4'.» (49); leugtli 

 of nasals, 19.(3 (lfl.8) ; lea.st interorbital breadth, 26 (26); 

 zygomatic breadth, 31) (39); mandible, 38.4 (37); maxillary 

 molar series (alveoli), 12 (12.8): mandibular molar .-ories (alve- 

 oli), 13 (14). 

 Eatufa notabilis sp. iiov. 



Type.— jVdult male (skin and skull), Xo. 113.064 United 

 States Katioual Museum. Collected on west coast of Linga Island, 

 August 24, 1901, by Dr. W. L. Abbott. Original number 

 1,210. 



Characters. — Size large, fully e(|ual to that of R. bicolor and R. 

 melanopepla. Upper parts uniform rich dark -brown; under parts, 

 feet, cheeks and face yellowish-white in conspicuous coutra.*t. 



Color. — Upper parts and outer surface of legs burnt umber, 

 slightly variegated by tlio faint tawny annulations which are pres- 

 ent on most of the hairs. These annidations are less distinct than 

 in R. pyrsonota, but nevertheless quite evident, jiarticularly on 

 neck and shoulders. On middle of back and in lumbar region 

 many of the hairs arc huffy white, producing a faint lighter cast. 

 Under j)arts, feet, cheeks and inner surface of legs clear cream-buff, 

 more yellow over middle of belly. ]\ru/,zle and face somewhat less 

 yellowish, but distinctly grizzled by a fine admixture of brown, par- 

 ticularly on anterior portion of crown and in region between eyes. 

 Tail with the hairs everywhere whitish cream-buff at base. On 

 dorsal and lateral surfaces of tail the terminal half is burnt umber, 

 but ventrally the cream-buff is clear, except for the darker line 

 caused by the appressed short hairs, many of which are brown. 



Skull ami Teeth. — The skull resembles that of Raliifa melan- 

 opepla in size, but in form ai)pears to be .-ilightly less elongate, a 

 difference which may readily prove to be inconstant. Teeth as in Ji. 

 melanopeplu. 



Measurement:). — ICxternal mea.-uvements of type: Total length, 

 780; head and body, 345; tail verlebrse, 435; hind foot, 82 (73). 



External measurements of an adult female from the ty]H^ locality: 

 Total length, TT'l; lu'ad and bodv, .'>3o ; tail vcrlcbrM'. 4-!">: hind 

 foot, 80 (72). 



Cranial measurements of type : Greatest length, 68 ; basal length, 



' Meiisurcmcnts in parentheses are those of an adult male Ratnfa affini* 

 from Singapore, tlie type locality. 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 151 



58; basilar leugth, 55; length of nasals, '22; least interorbital 

 bveadlh, 27.4; zygomatic breadth, 44; mandible, 45; maxillary 

 molar series (alveoli), 13; mandibular molar series (alveoli), 15. 



Specimens Examined. — Two, both from the type locality. 



Remarks.— Ratufa notahilis is such a conspicuous, ea.«Uy recog- 

 nizable species that it requires no comparison with its allies. The 

 Javan squirrel described by Desmarest under the name Sciimis 

 albiceps has a similar whitish face ; but Desmarest' s animal was 

 nmch smaller thau Ratufa notabilis, and will doubtless prove to be 

 the Javan representative of R. hyjtoleuca. 



The two specimens are in all respects similar to each other, except 

 that the tail of the female is just beginning 1o change from the 

 bleached pelage to the fresh coat of the breeding season. On the 

 body the change is completed. The annulations on the hairs of the 

 back are more distinct in the female than in the male, but the latter 

 has the more noticeable sprinkling of whitisli hairs o\'er the lumbar 

 region. 



Soiurus vittatus Raffles. 



Two skins from Linga Island, four from Slnkep Island, and six 

 from the Indragiri river, Sumatra. The Sinkep specimens are 

 slightly paler than the others, and the black lateral stripe is a little 

 less well defined. The characters, however, are too inconstant to 

 be regarded as of much importance. 



SoiuTUS tenuis Raffles. 



All adult male and female from the Indragiri river, Sumatra. 

 They are in every respect indistinguishable from the Singapore 

 animal. 



Sclurus melanops sp. uov. 



Type. — Adidt female (skin and skull). No. 113,152 United 

 States National MiLsuem. Collected on Indragiri river, eastern 

 Sumatra, September 15, 1901, by Dr. W. L. Abbott. Original 

 number 1,307. 



Characters. — A member of the (S'. prevostii group. Color exactly 

 as in iS. humei (Bouhote), except that the cheeks are black, 

 scarcely grizzled with gray. 



Color. — Tail and entire dorsal surface of head and body clear 

 shining black. Cheeks and sides of neck black, Ijut the color 

 dulled by a very faint admixture of gray and red. This grizzling 




152 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Marcll, 



is SO incouspicuous as to be scarcely noticeable when a specimen is 

 held at arm's length. A faint grayish patch immediately behind 

 ear. The whiskers spring from a sharply defined grayish white 

 area about 15 mm. in diameter. A similar whitish patch, 3 mm. 

 in diameter, snrrounds roots of suborbital bristles. Lateral stripe 

 buffy white. As in S. humei it extends from axillary region to 

 heel and includes entire outer surface of hind leg. Under parts, 

 feet, inner surface of hind legs and entire lower portion of front 

 legs a bright brownish-red, intermediate between the chestnut and 

 rufous of Ridgway. On outer side of hind leg the red comes in 

 contact with tlie white lateral stripe, but on inner side it is separated 

 from the white by a line of black about 10 mm. in diameter, which 

 extends as far as heel. Shoulder and outer surface of humerus 

 orange-ochracoous, sharply defined from the black contiguous area, 

 but fading gradually through various shades of ochraceous into the 

 buffy while of the lateral stripe. 



Skull nnd Teeth. — The skull is similar to that of Sciunis humei, 

 but the audita! bidlro are slightly smaller and the interpterygoid 

 .space is a trifle narrower. Molars uniformly smaller than in the 

 species from the Malay Peninsula, the difference parlicidarly 

 nolicdablc in the ])osterior lower tooth. 



Measurrinenis. — External measurements of type: Total length, 

 5flo; head and body, 255; tail vertebrse, 250; hind foot, 60; hind 

 foot without claws, 58. Two other adults mea.sure : Total length, 

 c? 535, 9 500 ; head and body, cf 270, ? 255 ; tail vertebrje, c? 

 265, ? 245; hind foot, d' •i4, ? liO; hind foot without claw.s, 

 cT «0. 9 5fi. 



Cranial meiusurements of tyi)e: Greatest length, 57 (60);' basal 

 length, 51 (53) ; basilar length. 4.S (50) ; palatal length, 26 

 (26.6); length of na.sals, 18.8 (10.4); interorbital breadth, 23 

 (24.4); zygomatic breadth, 34 (37); mandiblp, .38 (,41); max- 

 illary toothrow (alveoli), 11 (11.8); mandibular toothrow 

 (alveoli), 11.4 (14). 



Specimens Examined. — Three, all from the type loculily. 



liemarhi. — This scjuirrel is so readily distinguishable from its 

 allies bv the coloration of the cheeks that no further comparisons 

 are ueces.sary. The three specimens show no individual variations 

 worthy of note. 



' Measnrpments in pan-niheses are those of :in iidull fi'inale Sdurut 

 limnti from Troiig, lower Siiiin. 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 15o 



Nannosciurus pulcher sp. nov. 



Type.— AiMt female (skin and skull), No. 118,131 United 

 States National :\Iuscum. Collected on Siukep Island, South China 

 Sea, September 4, 1901, by Dr. W. L. Abbott. Original num- 

 ber 1,274. 



Characters. — Like Nannosciurm nielanotw Midler and Schlegel, 

 but back paler, belly more ochraceous, and light nuchal patch very 

 distinct. 



Color.— The colors of this squirrel are difficvJt to describe, as 

 they cannot be exactly matched in Ridgway's Nomenclature. The 

 back, sides, and outer surface of legs rather closely resemble wood- 

 brown, with a tinge of olive and a scarcely perceptible grizzle caused 

 by the black tips of the hairs, but (he brown itself is more nearly a 

 pale raw umber. Crown similar to back, but strongly tinged with 

 russet. Nape whitish, in strong contrast with surrounding parts, 

 the hairs faintly tipped with black. Inner surface of ear rather 

 thickly sprinkled with haiis in color similar to back. These extend 

 over anterior border of outer side of ear, but the remainder of the 

 outer surface is black, continuous with an elongated black patch 

 which lies behind ear and sends back a narrow, ill-defined border 

 to whitish nape patch. Side of head with yellowish white line 

 about 3 mm. in width, begmning at side of muzzle just above 

 nostril and extending back to a point slightly behind posterior border 

 of ear. This stripe includes lower eyelid. From inner canthus of 

 eye to muzzle it is faintly bordered with black. The stripes of the 

 opposite sides are separated on muzzle by a space of about 2 mm. 

 Under parts, feet, and inner surface of legs a pale tawny, closely 

 approaching the ochraceous-buff of Ridgway, but somewhat more 

 yellow. Tail a uniform coarse grizzle of tawny, black and white, 

 each hair with six color bands. These are as follows, beginning at 

 base: (1) Tawny, 2 mm.; (2) slate-gray, 1.5 mm.; (3) tawny, 

 4 mm. ; (4) black, 5 mm. ; (5) white, 3 mm. ; (6) black, 1 mm. 

 At tip the pattern changes to 10 or 11 alternating bands of black 

 and tawny, the black terminal area increasing to 7-10 mm. As a 

 result the while element of the grizzle is absent in this region. 



Skull and Teeth. — The skull and teeth apparently resemble those 

 of iV. whiteheadi rather closely, except that the rostrum is less 

 elongate and the upper incisors less projecting forward. The speci- 

 mens of both species at hand are, however, in poor condition. The 




154 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



skull is readily distinguished from that of N. exilis bj- its larger 

 size. 



Measurements. — External measurements of t}-pe: Total length, 

 165; head and body, 88; tail vertebrae, 77; hind foot, 25 (23). 



Specimens Examined. — One, the type. 



Remarks. — In all probability this is the Sumatraii form of 

 Nannoseiurus melanotis described and figured by Teramlnck and 

 Schlegel.' It is not impossible, however, that the Sinkep animal 

 may prove to be distinct from that of the larger island. Nanno- 

 sciurus pulcher is readily distinguishable from N. melanoiis, as well 

 as from all other known members of the genus, by the conspicuous, 

 sharply defined, whitish nape patch. 

 Bhinosoiurus latioaudatus (Miiller and Schlegel). 



A very old male was taken on Linga Island, Augast 28, 1901. 

 It was brought in by Malays, who had secured it in a jerot or snare. 

 As compared with a young female from Sirba.ssen Island, South 

 Natuniis, this specimen is darker above and less yellowish below. 

 Uus lingensis Miller. 



Seventeen specimens (seven skulls without skins) from Linga 

 Island, and thirty-three (eight in alcohol and twelve skulls without 

 skins) from Sinkep Island. The two series agree well with each 

 other in bearing out the characters of the species — that is, in less 

 yellow coloration and narrower, more elongate palate, as compared 

 with Mit.s aurifer. 

 Mus sp. 



The imperfect skull of a small brown rat taken on Linga Island, 

 Augast 30, 1901 {d. No. 113,053), represents a .species closely 

 related to Mm asper. Its exact identification is impossible. 

 Mus fremens »i>. i«>v. 



Type. — Adult male (skin and .skull). No. 113,0^7 United 

 States National Museum. Collected on Sinkep Island, South 

 China Sea, September 4, 1901. Original numbe'r 1,273. 



Characters. — A member of the .labarms-vociferans grou]), but 

 color less tawny than in any of the forms hitherto known. 



Color. — Hack and sides a fine grizzle of drab, ochraceou.s-l)uff, 

 and blackish horn color, the latter much in excess everywhere except 



•Verhandel. overde Natuurlijke Geschiedenis der Xederl. overzecsclie 

 BezUtingen, p. 98, PI. XIV, flg. .5. 




1902.] NATURAL SC1ENCB:S of PHILADELPHIA. 155 



on lower part of sides, where it gives place to the ochraceoiis-buff 

 aud drab. The geueral effect is drab, much overlaid with blackish 

 ou back and lightened by the ochraceous-buff on sides, shoulders, 

 neck aud flanks. Outer surface of front legs drab, darkening to 

 hair-brown. Outer surface of hind legs similar but distinctly 

 suffused with ochraceous-buff. Top of head like back, but more 

 finely orizzled, sides of head dull ocnraceous-buff. Muzzle hair- 

 brown. A blackish ill-defined eye ring. Under parts whitish 

 cream-buff. Feet the same, but metapodials heavily shaded with 

 hair-brown. Ears and tail dark brown, the latter indistinctly 

 whitish beneath aud throughout distal third. 



Skull and Teeth.— T\\q skull and teeth appear to be essentially 

 suuilar to those of Mus vociferans. 



Measurements. — External measurements of type: Total length, 

 558; head and body, 2;34; tail, 324; hind foot, 47 (44.6). 

 External measurements of an adult female from Liuga Island: 

 Head and body, 284; hind foot, 4() (44). 



Spedmem Examined.— Two, one from Sinkep and one from 



Linga. 



Remarks.— la coloration Mus fremens is unlike any of the mem- 

 bei-s of the group to which it belongs. The general pattern is the 

 same, but the yellowish tints are greatly i-educed, both in extent 

 and brightness, while there is a corresponding increase in the drab 

 and black. In Mtis slrepUans there is as much black on the back, 

 but in this species the yellow tints retain all their brightness, and 

 the drab is scarcely visible. Both specimens of Mus fremens are in 

 fresh, unworn pelage. The Linga skin differs somewhat from the 

 type in the paler color of its head and more yellowisli outer surface 

 of the limbs. Whether these differences are due to an\thing more 

 than individual variation it is, of course, impossible to determine 

 without more material. 

 Mus firmus sp. nov. 



rj,^je._Adult female (skin aud skull). No. llo,03S Uniled 

 Stales National Museum. Collected on Liuga Island, August 25, 

 1901, by Dr. W. L. Abbott. Original number 1,215. 



Characters. — Similar to Mus integer irom Sirhassen Island, South 

 Natunas, but size slightly greater and color much less yellow. 

 Maramre 8. 



Color. — Back aud sides a fine grizzle of blackish-brown and 




156 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



pale, dull buff, the two colors nearly equally mixed on back, but 

 the buff in excess on sides, where, however, it is clouded by the 

 appearance at surface of the gray (very nearly Ridgway's No. (>) 

 of the under fur. The longer hairs show a distinct bluish iiietallio 

 lustre. Under parts and inner surface of legs buff to base of 

 hairs. Head similar to back, but grizzle much less coarse, and 

 cheeks washed with buff. Lips and chin whitish. Feet dull 

 dark brown. Ears and tail dark brown. 



Fur and Other External Cliaraders. — As in Mm integer. 



Skull and Teeth. — The skull and teeth closely resemble those of 

 ihis integer, except that the interpterj-goid space is wider and the 

 first upper molar somewhat larger. 



Measurement.^. — External measurements of type : Total length, 

 500; head and body, 245; tail, 255; hind fool, 50 (,48.6); ear 

 from meatus, 24; width of ear, 18. 



Cranial measurements of type : Greatest length, 53 ; basal 

 length, 46; basilar length, 43; length of nasals, 21.4; diastema, 

 15; zygomatic breadth, 27; mandible, 32.4; maxillary toothrow 

 (alveoli), SI. 4; mandibular loothrow (alveoli), 10. 



Specimens Examined. — Seven (one skull without skin, and one 

 entire animal in alcohol), all from Linga Island. 



I{e)narlci. — Two sijecimeus of Mus finiui-i have been compared 

 with the type of Mus mulhri by Dr. F. A. Jentink, of the Leyden 

 Museum. They prove to represent a larger animal with more 

 black on the back, and differing also in certain cranial peculiari- 

 lies, which, however, Dr. Jentink does not sjiecify. 



Viverra tangalunga Gray. 



An adult female was trapped on Linga Island by Malays, 

 August 27, lilOl. The uterus contained three embryos. 



Arotogalidia simplex sp. nor. 



r<//)e.— Adult male (skin and skull), No. 113,069 United States 

 National Museum. Collcoteil on Linga Island, South China Sea, 

 August :)0, 1!H)1, by Dr. W. L. Abbott. Original number 1,254. 



Characters. — Size and general appearance as in Arctogalidia 

 inorna!a, of Bunguran Island, North Natunas, but color distinctly 

 darker and median dorsal line plainly visible. 



Color. — Back, sides and outer surface of legs a rather dark, 

 finely grizzled, silvery-gray, the elements of which are as follows : 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 157 



Under fur dark broccoli -brown, the shorter hairs tipped with dull, 

 light cream-buff, the longer with black, and all showing a distinct 

 gloss in certain lights. The general effect is darker and less yellow 

 than in Arctogalidia inornata. A distinct trace of the median 

 dorsal line extends from shoulders to lumbar region, but the lateral 

 lines are absent. Head, ears, feet, lower portion of front legs and 

 distal half of tail blackish, the forehead, crown and cheeks finely 

 and inconspicuousl)' grizzled with gra}'. Basal half of tail like 

 back, but slightly darker. Under parts dirty gray, slightly but 

 distinctly tinged with yellow, particularly on throat and under 

 surface of neck. Sides of neck buff (a little less yellow than that 

 of Ridgway), forming a rather conspicuous contrast with sur- 

 rounding parts. 



Skull and Teeth. — The skull and teeth are essentiall)' as in 

 Arctogalidia inornata, but the premolars appear to be more robust. 



Measurements. — External measurements of type: Total length, 

 1,0.50; head and body, 515; tail, .535; hind foot, 81 (77). 



Cranial measurements of type: Greatest length, 106; basal 

 length, 98; basilar length, 94; median palatal length, 56; breadth 

 of palate between anterior molars, 14.0; zygomatic breadth, 58; 

 constriction in front of postorbital processes, 17; constriction behind 

 postorbital processes, 14; mandible, 78 ; maxillary toothrow Tex- 

 clusive of incisors), 37 ; mandibular toothrow (exclusive of in- 

 cisors), 41. 



Specimens Examined. — Two, the tj-pe from Liuga Island and an 

 immature male from Sinkep. 



Remarks. — By its small size and obsolete dorsal markings this 

 species is readily distinguishable from Arctogalidia leucotis and A. 

 stigmatica. Its relationship with the small A. inornata of Bunguran 

 Island is much more close; but the two small species differ very 

 considerably in general coloration. 



Tupaia malaooana Anderson. 



An adult male from Linga Island, two adult females from 

 Sinkep Island, and an adidt male from the Indragiri river. 

 Tupaia phaeura sp. nov. 



%)e.— Adidt male (.skin and skull). No. 113,148 United 

 States National ISIuseum. Collected on Sinkep Island, South 

 China Sea, September 4, 1901, by Dr. W. L. Abbott. Original 

 number 1,275. 




158 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF , [March, 



Characters. — Like Tupaia ferruginea from Singapore, but with 

 much darker tail, its upjwr and lower sides concolor with corre- 

 sponding surfaces of body. 



Color. — Dorsal surface of head, body and tail a fine grizzle of 

 seal-brown and dark ferruginous, the ferruginous in excess on 

 head, shoulders and anterior portion of back, the seal-brown in 

 excess on tail and posterior half of back. The color is most dark 

 on rump, lumbar region, flanks and basal third of tail. Chest, 

 throat, chin, cheeks, muzzle, sides of neck and front legs olive-buff, 

 rather darker than that of Ridgway, brightest along middle of 

 throat. On the thinly haired posterior half of the ventral surface 

 the olive disappears, leaving a didl tawny, which extends over 

 inner surface of hind legs, and, somewhat brightened, forms the 

 light element of the grizzle of under side of tail, where it is dis- 

 tinctly in excess of the seal-brown. Feet dusky brown. 



S/cuU and Teeth. — The skull and teeth do not differ appreciably 

 from those of Tupaia ferruginea. 



Measurementi. — External mesisuremeuts of type: Total length, 

 335; head and body, 195; tail vertebrse, 140; hind foot, 4() 

 (43.6). Two adult females from the type locality (Nos. 113,147 

 and 113,149) measure respectively: Total length, 325 and 335; 

 head and body, 185 and 195; tail vertebrte, 140 and 140; hind 

 foot, 43 (40) and 44 (41). 



Specimens Kramined. — Three, all from the type locality. 



Remarks. — Tupaia phwura is closely related to true T. ferruginea 

 the type locality of which may be assumed to be Singapore, tl)ough 

 easily recognizable by its much darker tail. 



Macacus "oynomolgus" Aiut. 



Tills monkey was common on the banks of the Indragiri river, 

 Sumatra. An adult male taken on September 21, 1901, does not 

 differ appreciably from specimens from the Malay Peninsula. 



Semnopitheons maams (Schreber). 



T\V(i were shot from a drove of twenty or more in a sago planta- 

 tion on Linga Island, August 25, 1901. Along the banks of the 

 Indragiri river the animal was plentiful. Four specimens were 

 secured. In the Linga skins the gray tips of the hairs on back 

 and shoulders are le.ss conspicuous than in those from the Iu<lr!igiri 

 river. 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 159 



Semuopitheous samatranus Miiller and Schlegel. 



1830. Semnopiiheois ftmoralis Horsfieki, Appendix to Memoir of 



Life of Raffles, p. 643. Nomen nudum. 

 1839-44. Semnopithecus su7natranus Miiller and Schlegel, Verhandel. 



over de natuurlijke Geschiedenis der Nederl. overzeesche bezit- 



tingen, p. 73. 

 1851. Semnopithecus femoralis Horsfleld, Catal. Mamm. Mus. Hon. 



East Ind. Company, p. 10. 



This monkey was met with on the banks of the Indragiri river, 

 where it was less numerous than S. mauriis. Native name, kahka. 

 Two specimens taken. 



Hylobates hoolock (Harlan). 



Five gibbous taken on tlie banks of the Indragiri river appear 

 to be referable to this species. They agree perfectly with the 

 description given by Blanford, and are evidently distinct from H. 

 lar, nvunerous specimens of which have been collected by Dr. 

 Abbott on the JIalay Peninsula. 




160 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



A EEVISION OF THE GENUS MORMOOPS. 

 BY JAMES A. G. REHN. 



During Ihe preparation of this paper quite au interesting series 

 of forty-niue specimens has been examined, forty-four of them 

 loaned from the collection of the United States National ]\Iiiseum, 

 through the kindness of Mr. Gerrit S. Miller, Jr., of that institution. 

 The author also wishes to acknowledge his indebtedne.«s to Dr. C. 

 Hart Merriam for the loan of two Jamaican specimens from tlie col- 

 lection of tlie U. 8. Biological Survey ; to Prof. D. G. Elliot for 

 tlie loan of one specimen from San Domingo from the collection of 

 the Field Columbian Museum, Chicago, and to Dr. F. A. Jentink, 

 of the Leydeu Museum, for kindly furnishing information concern- 

 ing two Cuban specimens in the collection under his care. 



The material examined covers all the localities from which tlie 

 geniLs has been recorded with but few exceptions, and in such cases 

 the specimens are not available for examination. 



MOBMOOFS Leach. 



1830. Aello Leach, Trans. Linn. Soc. London, XIII, p. 70. Type, 



A'ello cucieri, a mutihiled and almost unrecognizable specimen of 



M. blainvUlii. 

 1820, Afonnoops Leach, Trans. Linu. Soc. Loudon, XIII, p. 76. 



Tvpc, J/. bl/iinvUhi Loacli. 

 1840. Lohustoma Gundlacli, Wiegmann's Archiv. fiir Xaturgescli., 



VI, l)and I, p. 357 (part). 

 IS")*!. Miinnor>s Peters, Monatsber. K. Preuss. Akad. 'Wlssensch.. 



Berlin, p. 410. 



Generic Characters. — Crown of the head greatly elevated above 

 the face line ; ears actually or nearly united ba^ally by the internal 

 margins; nostrils not margined by extensive cutaneous develop- 

 ments. Facial portion of skull bent strongly upward, the hjusi- 

 cranial and facial axes being thus almost at right angles. Denti- 

 tion i. J:^ c. ;:;, p. iz], m. J:^ 



HUtory. — The genus Mormoops was founded by Ijciich in 1820' 

 on his sjiecies M. blamvillii, which was described from Jamaica. 

 In the same work, having precedence by a few pages (p. 70), is a 



' Trriiis. Linn. Soc. London, XIII, p. 78. 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 161 



genus A'ello, which Leach described from a mutilated specimen of 

 Monnoops hlainvillii, according to Dobson,^ who examined the type. 

 A\TuIe the genus and species A'ello cuvieri have page priority over 

 Monnoops blainvlllii. the very poor definition and absolute uuideu- 

 tifiability of the former (without a close examination of the type such 

 as Dobson has made) should give occasion to ase the better defined, 

 almost simultaneous and universally recognized name. Gray/ in 

 speaking of the occurrence of the genus in Cuba, placed Monnoops 

 and the genus Chilonyderis in the tribe NocUlionina in the \4cinity 

 of the Taphozoi, on accoimt of the possession of no true nose leaf. 

 In 1840, Gundlach* described a specimen of this genus from Cuba 

 as Lohostoma einnamomewn, and Peters' and Saassure" both con- 

 fused Leach's species with another form of the genus to which 

 Petere later' gave the name of megalophylla. Sau.ssure, in the 

 above-mentioned papei', placed the genus iu a subtribe of the 

 ^ ' Noctilioniens, ' ' which he designates as the ' ' ilonnopsins, ' ' and 

 associates Chilonycteris with it in the same divasion. In 1865, 

 Peters,* in a revisionary table of the order, placed Mormops (Mof- 

 inoops Leach), Chilonyderis and Pteronotus in a subfamily Mor- 

 mopea of the family Phyllostomata. Dobson" considered these allied 

 genera as constituting a subfamily Lohodomince and group Mor- 

 mopes of the Phyllostojiiatidw. Quite recently Miller'" has de- 

 scribed a form allied to 31. megalophylla, inhabiting the island of 

 Cura9ao, as Monnoops intermedia. 



General Relations. — The three genera, Mormoope, Chilonycteris 

 and Dermonottis {Pteronotus Auct."), comprise a well-defined sub- 

 family, the differential characters of which are the absence of a dis- 

 tinct nose leaf and the presence of leaf-like appendages on the 

 lower lip. The former character is shared by the genus Centurio, 

 but the latter character easily distinguishes the group from the 

 Centurionince. The genus Mornioops may be distinguished from 



'^ C'atal. Ohiropt. Brit. Mas., p. 454. 



''Ann. Nat. Hist., IV, p. 8, 1839. 



* Wiegmann's Arch. f. ISfaturgcsch., VI, bd. I, p. 357. 



'" Monatsber. k. preuss. Akad. Wissensch., Berliu, 18o6, pp. 410-415. 

 Abhandl. k. preuss. Akad. Wissensch., Berlin, 1856, pp. 287-301. 



^ Revue et Mayasin de Zoologie, 2d ser., XII, pp. 290-293. 



'' 3/onatsber. k. preuss. Akad. Wissensch., Berlin, 1864, p. 381. 



' llonatsber. k. preuss. Akad. Wissensch., Berliu, 1865, p. 257. 



» Catal. Chiropt. Brit. Mas., pp. 446-447. 

 'o Proc. Biol. Soc. Washington, XIII, p. 160. 

 " Vide Gill, Proe. Biol. Soc. Washington, XIV, p. 177. 



11 




162 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEJIt OF [^Earcll, 



the other two genera by the greatly elevated brain-ease, which 

 throws the basi-cranial axis almost at right angles to that of ros- 

 trum, and in the presence of prominent internal, basally annectant, 

 flaps to the ears. 



After a study of the names applied to this section as a group, I 

 have concluded to designate the subfamily, containing Mormoopx, 

 Chilonyeteris and Dermonotm (Pteronotm Auct. ), as the J/or- 

 moopince, which term I have used in a pre\'ious paper.'- The name 

 Lohostomince of Dobson is not available as Lobodoma is a synonym 

 of Mormoops and Chilonyeteris. 



Key to the Forms. 



a. — Qiin pad slightly di\-ided. Cutaneous lap connecting the 

 inner side of the couch with the supraocular region luiited 

 with its fellow of the opposite side. 

 b. — Greatest thickness of the fii-st upper premolar centrally 

 located, the tooth being crudely rhomboid in outline, 



bhiinrillii Ix^ach. 

 66. — Greatest thickness of the fii-st upper premolar posteriorly 

 located, the tooth being subconoid in outline, 



6. cinnamomea (Gundlach). 

 ad. — Chin pad considerably divided. Cutaneous lap connecting 

 the inner side of the couch with the supraocular region not 

 united ^\^th its fellow of the opposite side except at tlie 

 extreme base. 

 6. — First up]ier premolar narrow, centrally constricted, the 

 posterior margin well separated from the secou<l pre- 

 molar, 

 c. — Second upper premolar triangular in basal outline, 

 etjually broad as long, the internal lobe of the 

 tooth moderately developed, 



megalophjlla (Peters). 



cc. — Second upper premolar nuich l)roader than long, the 



internal lobe of the tooth very much devchii)ed, 



m. pellicula Kehn. 



66. — First upjier premolar rather broad, subrectangular in 



outline, in contact with or very sliglitly separated from 



the second i)remolar, . . . m. intermedia ^liller. 



Mormoops blainvillii Leach. 



1820. Aello Cutieri Leach, Trans. Linn. See. London, XIII, p. 71 



(founded on a badly nuitilaled specimen). 

 1H20. Morinoopn Blai'ntUUi Leach, Trans. Linn. Soc. London, XIII, 



p. 77, tab. VII. 



^'Proe. Acad. Nat. Sei. Pfiila., 1001, p. 297. 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 163 



1873. Mormops Blainvillii Peters, Monatsber. k preuss Akad 



Wifsensch., Berlin, p. 359 (part). ■ . . 



1878. Mormops hlaimiUii Dobson, Catal. Chiropt. Brit. SIus., p. 456. 



Type Locality. — Jamaica. 



Distnbution. — Jamaica. 



General Characters. — Size rather .small; ear.s with the prominent 

 internal wmg united with its fellow; lower margin of chiu-lappet 

 with two central projections ; labial fold very deeply cleft centrally. 



Head.—Broad, long and shallow. Ears very large, the lower 

 margins extending forward to the commissure, thus, with the ante- 

 rior trend of the internal connecting membrane, forming a cavity 

 in which is located the rather minute eye; internal connecting 

 membrane carried forward and connecting with its fellow posterior 

 to the na.sal region ; the apex of the ear with a concave emar- 

 gination ; internal ridge well developed, extending to the tip of the 

 ear, inferiorly rather deep, the tip broadly rounded; antitragus 

 high, apex circular; tragus rather large, apically with an addi- 

 tional sublanceolate, subpetiolate process, inner border with a 

 median emargination, outer border mferiorly emargiuate, centrally 

 with a rounded process. Ej^e with wart near both the anterior and 

 posterior corners. Nostrils opening in the lateral portions of a 

 fleshy disk, which has the superior margm concavely emarginate, 

 below which the disk bears a median ridge; nasal apertures sur'- 

 rounded by slightly raised margins; the central formation laterally 

 flanked by rectangular fleshy processes; upper lip deeply notchtd 

 opposite the first upper premolar, an acute process projecting for- 

 ward from the commissure. Chin-lappet of lower lip subquadrate, 

 upper margin with a central concavity, lower margin with a pair of 

 small processes in the center; surface papillose. Labial fold ample 

 extending much below the chin-lappet, deeply divided into four 

 portions by incisions, one median and two lateral. 



iimfo.— Forearm moderately long, considerably bowed; third 

 finger rather long, very slender, the latter character applying to all 

 the digits ; thumb delicate. Femora, tibire and feet long and very 

 slender ; calcauea long, about equaling the tibiaj. 



Membranes and Fio-.— Membranes very thin and semi-trans- 

 parent, very finely tucked and wrinkled by cross nerves, the pattern 

 of the latter being very regular; propatagium large, the anterior 

 border totally free; uropatagium ample, extending quite a distance 




164 PKOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



beyond the tail. Fur long, soft and silky, the posterior part of 

 the neck with a collar of longer hair; throat and chin with short 

 floccose fur ; ectopatagiuni considerably furred ; forearm not 

 furred ; upper lip heavily haired. 



Color. — General tint above and below orange-rufous, slightly 

 darker over the shoulders, palest around the head and on the 

 throat." Membranes pale chestnut. 



Skull. — Rather light and fragile; cranial portion abru])tly ele- 

 vated and thrown forward ; foramen magnum very large and wholly 

 above tlie level of tlie orbital region. Braiu-case comparatively 

 large, and forming a right angle with the line of the face ; auditory 

 bidlte moderately prominent, projecting under the glenoid fossK, the 

 latter being large and sul)(|uadrate. Rostrum low, the upper surface 

 deeply channeled centrally; palate considerably excavated, pos- 

 terior projection narrow, the cleft acute-angulate with uarrowl)' 

 rounded apex ; zygoma slightly projecting, sublamellatc. Jlan- 

 dible rather long, thin, moderately deep ; condyle greatly elevated ; 

 coronoid process low. 



Teeth. — Central pair of upper incisors much longer than the 

 small lateral pair, flat, the cutling edge bilobate; upper canines 

 long and falciform, the tips slightly spread ; first upper jiremolar 

 with the basal outline of the tooth crudely rhomboid ; second upper 

 premolar with a large caniniform, posteriorly placed cusp; upper 

 molars broad, the first and second with W-shaped arrangement of 

 the ridges, the protocoue being more strongly developed on the first 

 than on the second molar ; third molar transverse, witli N-shai>ed 

 fold (para-hypocouoid) and a marked protocoue. I>ower incisors 

 equal iu size, trilobate; canines moderately long, the bulk of the 

 tooth being anterior; premolars with the same general unicuspidate 

 form, the cusp of the first being placed anterior to the centre of the 



" The color is best sei'ii by e.xaminins the specimen while immersed 

 in alcohol, the wet specimen taken from the prcservnlive appearing 

 niufli darker. >Ir. Osborn {Proc Zoul. Soc. London, 1805, p. 72) de- 

 scribes the fur of a freslily killed siiccimen as being bright chestnut, 

 above rallier paler. The same writer (p. 73; observes that the tint varies 

 from a sandy buff to deep reddish-brown. It is possible fioni this that 

 two marked phases exist. Since writing the above I have been enabled 

 to jxaiuine a skin from the collcclion of the United States Kati<uial 

 Museum. My notes on it arc as follows : General color a rufous-orange 

 tint, sutlused above with smoky brown, this tint restricted to the lips of 

 the hair, and strongest on tlie lateral portions of the back and rump ; 

 long hair on the interscapular region naturally parted showing a patch 

 of the lighter seneral color. Menibrancs brownish-black. 




1902.] NATlTRAIi SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 165 



tooth, cusjjs of the first aud third of equal length, longer than the 

 second ; molars with five cusps, the anterior one low aud not promi- 

 nent, the posterior four tall and sharp. 



Measurements. — Average of two Jamaican specimens: Lenglh of 

 head and body, 50 mm.; head, 15.7; tragus, 4.2; forearm, 44.5; 

 thumb, 6.2; third finger, 81.5; tibia, 20; calcaneum, 19.5; foot, 

 8.1; tail, 28.3. 



Remarks. — This species is not liable to be confused with any 

 other form except the subspecies cinnamomea, which is distm- 

 guished by the outline of the first upper premolar. From M. 

 megalophylla and its subspecies this species is immediately distm- 

 guished by the form of the ears, the chin-lappet and the labial 

 folds. 



Specimens Examined. — Two alcoholic specimens and one skin: 

 Jamaica (Coll. Biological Purvey); ^Nloneague, St. Ann, Jamaica 

 (Coll. Biological Survey) ; Kingston, Jamaica (skin) (Coll. U. S. 

 Nat. Mus. ). 



Mormoops blainvillii cinnamomea (Guncilach). 



1839. Mormops Blainvillii Gray (not of Leach), Ann. Nat. Hist., 

 IV, p. 3. 



1840. L[obostom(t'] einnnmomeiim Gundlach, AViegmann's Arcliiv. 

 fiir Naturseschiclite, VI, bd. I, p. 357. 



1872. Mormops Blaintillii Peters, Monatsber. k. preuss. Akad. 

 Wissensch. Berlin, p. 359 (part). 



1873. J/[or»wps] BlainmlUi Gundlacli, Anales Socied. Esp. Hist. 

 Nat., I, cuaJ. 3, p. 244. 



Type Locality. — Casetal St. Antouio el Fundador, Cuba. 



Digtrihution.—Q\\\i&, San Domingo and Mona Island (in the 

 Mona Island passage between San Domingo and Porto Rico). 



General Characters. — Similar to the Jamaican J/, blainvillii, but 

 the first upper premolar attains its greatest thickness posteriorly, 

 the outline of the tooth being subconoid with the apex directed 

 forward. 



Metnhranes, ears and olher external characters as in Mormoops 

 blainvillii. 



Teeth. — The firsi upper premolar greatly expanded posteriorly 

 on the internal portion, the cingulum forming a heavy raised border 

 to a deeply impressed valley ; the whole structure giving the tooth a 

 subconoid or subpyriform outline, the apex being formed by the 

 anterior border of the cingulum. 



Color. — General tint walnut-browu above, ecru-drab beneath. 




166 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



the hair of the upper surface basally the same tiut as the lower 

 surface. Ears and membranes blackish-brown. 



The Mona Island specimens are all imiformly colored, but a San 

 Domingo specimen (No. j Ml Field Columb. Mas.) is ochraceous 

 above, slightly darker toward the tips of the hair, the lint of the 

 lower surface being tawny ochraceous ; two Cuban specimens exam- 

 ined are identical with true blainvillii in coloration. From the 

 evidence available it is seen that this form presents t\vo color 

 phases, one brownish, the other ochraceous. 



Measurements. — Average of ten specuueus : Length of head and 

 body, 51.2 mm.; head, 16.8; ear, 15 1; tragus, 4.4; forearm, 

 44.5; thumb, 6.6; thii-d finger, 83.1; tibia, 19.5; caicaueum, 

 19.4; foot, 8.5; tail, 25.8. 



Remarks. — The difference in the form of the fii-sl upper premolar 

 exhibited by this form is quite striking, and Ls constant in the series 

 of specimens examined. No difference cau be detected between the 

 specimens from IMona Island and those from San Domingo. While 

 no intergradalion is known to occur with M. bluinvillii, in view of 

 the slight differentiation I prefer to call this form a race and not a 

 species. 



Specimens Examined. — Twelvc^three skins, nine alcoholics: 



Baracoa, Cuba. Two alcoholics (Coll. U. S. Xat. jMus. ). 



Mona Island, Porto Rico. Seven specimens — two skies (with 

 skulls), five alcoholics (Coll. U. S. Nat. Mus.). 



San Domingo. Two alcoholics (Coll. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. ). 



Aquacate, San Domingo. One skin with skuU (Coll. Field 

 Columb. Mus.). 



Mormoops megalophylla (Peters). 



185G. Mlormops] hlaintillii Peters (not of Lendi), Monatsher. k. 



])reuss. Akad. Wissenscb., Herlio, i>. 411. ("C'ulja.") 

 1856. Mormoops BlaimillU Peters (not of Leach), Abhandl. k. 



preuss. Akad. Wissensch., Berlin, p. 289, taf. 1, figs. 1-5. 



("Cuba.") 

 18(j0. Mormops Blainvillii Saussure (not of Leach), Revue et Mag- 



asin de Zoologie, 2e ser.. XII, p. 290, PI. XV, tig. 5." (Mexico.) 

 1864. Mormops rtugnlophylla Peters, Jlouatslj. k. preuss. Akad. 



Wissensch., Berlin, p. 381. (.Mexico.) 

 1872. Mormops megalophylla Peters, Ibid., p. 359. (Mexico and 



Venezuela.) 

 1878. Mormops megalophylla Dobson, Catal. Cbiropt. Brit. Mus , p. 



456. (Duenas, Guatemala, Colombia and South America.) 



" There is no way of telling to which f.mn of the species this reference 

 properly pertains. 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 167 



1879. Mormops megalopJiylla Alston, Biol Cent.-Amer., Mamm., p. 

 37. (Part.) (Mexico [form'?]; Tehuantepec.) 



1893. Mormops megalopliylla Tlioiuas. Jouru. Trinidad Field Nat- 

 uralists' Club, I, No. 7, p. 163. (Trinidad.) 



Type Locality. — As originally noticed (see above) this form was 

 supposed to have come from Cuba, but Peters in his paper, in which 

 the name megalophylla was proposed, shows Ihat the species is 

 from Mexico. Examined in the light of present material, it is seen 

 that the typical form of the species is limited in Mexico to the 

 southern portion and Yucatan, which section should be regarded as 

 the type localily. This is ascertamed by an examination of Peters' 

 figure mentioned above and by comparing it with specimens ; the 

 differential characters of the races would be \'isible in the figure, 

 but it clearly represents the form to which I have limited it. 



Distribution. — Southern Mexico and Yucatan, south as far as 

 Colombia, northern Ecuador, '■' Venezuela and Truiidad. Some 

 specimens recorded from ' ' South America ' ' no doubt came from 

 the northern portion of that vast continent. 



General Characters. — Internal connecting membrane of ear not 

 united with its fellow of the opposite side, except at extreme base ; 

 chin-lappet broadly and deeply divided. Skull with the rostral 

 portion much inflated. 



Head.— Ear large, not high; apex subtruncate ; the internal 

 connecting membranes rather low, only confluent at the extreme 

 base on the rostrum, this section developing a pair of subcircular 

 appendages which conceal the anterior aspect of the point of 

 attachment; internal ridge rather high, moderately haired; lower 

 external margin of the ear voluminous, forming a very consider- 

 able pocket, which when extended projects a distance on each side 

 of the head equal to the thickness of the same; antitragus longi- 

 tudinal, low, rounded; tragus with the apical appendage subspatu- 

 late, the median whorl thickened internally, basal lobe truncate 

 and more developed than in M. blainvillii. Eye small, with a 

 large V-shaped warty projection placed posterior to it, below the 

 axis of the ocular opening. Nostrils oval, slanting upward and 

 outward, the whole arrangement of callous pads being similar to 

 M. blainvillii, but the internasal pads more robust and the laterals 

 oblong instead of subcircular. Upper lip very fleshy, the incision 

 near the commissure being wide and rounded. Chin-lappet roughly 



'* Oldfleld Thomas in epist. 




168 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



the same in outline as J/, blainvillii, but the lower margin deeply 

 di\'idecl between the two processes, the incision being widened 

 at the end, the margins adjoining these processes but slightly 

 emarginate with the lower angles roimded; surface of lappet 

 similar to M. blainvillii. Labial fold very much as in the above- 

 mentioned species.'^ 



Limbs — Forearm long, metacarpal of the third finger not 

 reaching the elbow ; thumb short and weak. Tibia and femur 

 slender. 



Fur. — Fur rather sparse in the region of the nape, the crown 

 of the head being devoid of hair. Upper fur silky, under fur 

 woolly. 



Color. — Upper surface prout's-brown, the hair lighter basally, 

 which under tint shows in the sparsely haired region of the nape, 

 imparting a dull ochraceous touch to that portion. Membranes 

 clove-brown. Under surface vaiying from wood-brown to tawuy- 

 olive. 



Skull. — Rather large, strongly inflated, brain-case capacious, 

 gently curving down into the rostrum which is strongly inflated 

 posteriorly. Zygoma not bowed, widest posteriorly. Basi-cranial 

 axis forming an obtuse angle with the facial axis. 



Teeth. — ^Middle upper incisors broad, with a faintly bilobed cut- 

 ting edge ; outer upper incisors minute, placed in close proximity to 

 the middle incisors. Ix)wer incisoi's arranged in a semi-circle, each 

 finely trilobed. Upper canines long, slightly divergent at the tips. 

 Lower canines rather long, divergent, with the cingulum well 

 marked jiosteriorly. Fii-st upper premolar low, conical, slightly 

 directed inward; second premolar with the external casp long, 

 hastate, the internal portion forming a low rounded shoulder, the 

 basal proportions of the tooth being longer (on the external mar- 

 gin) than wide. Lower premolars conical, the second shorter in 

 lateral outline than the firet or third, the latter more attenuate than 

 the others. Upper molars broad, the first and second with 

 ■\V-shaped external cusps, the internal paracouoid ridge heaviest 

 anteriorly, posteriorly low and free from the external cusps; third 

 molar with a V-shaped pattern, the metacone not being developed, 



" Dobson's figure (Ciitnl. Chiropl. Urit. }fus., PI. XXIII, fig. 5) oftliis 

 spfcies shows the chiD-liippel quite dift'erent iu form from that of M. 

 blainviUii. This is not so apparent in my specimens and was probably 

 due to a disarrangement in the specimen figured. 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 169' 



and the internal cusp parahj'poconoid in relation. Lower molars 

 each with five cusps, the W-shaped disposition not being so strongly- 

 marked as in the upper molars, the metahypoconoid and protopara- 

 conoid cusps more elevated than the remaining connecting ridges. 



Measurements. — ^Average of three dried skins : Length of head 

 and body, 71mm. (67.5-74.7); forearm, 53.2 (52.7-54); tibia, 

 21.1 (21-21.5); foot, 9.6 (9.5-10). 



Remarks. — This species can be readily distinguished from hlain- 

 villii by the characters given above. From m. intermedia it is- 

 separated by the freer and less-crowded first upper premolar. The 

 subspecies senicula is distinguished by the form of the second upper 

 premolar. 



Specimens Examined. — Three skins with skulls: 



Merida, Yucatan (two) (U. S. N. M.). 



San Juan Baulisla, Tabasco, Mexico (one) (U. S. N. M. ). 



Mormoops megalophylla senicula n- subsp. 



1870. Mormoops {Blninrillef) Duges (not of Leach), La Naturaleza, 



I, p. 137. (Guanajiuito.) 

 1879. Mormops mcgalophylla Alston, Biol. Cent.-Amer., Mamm., p. 



37. (Part.) (Mirador.) 

 1900. Mormoops-megalophylla Mearns (not of Peters), Proc. Biol. Soc. 



Wash., Xin, p. 166. (Fort Clark, Texas.) 



Type. — Adult ? ; Fort Clark, Kinney coimty, Texas. No. 

 84,801 U. S. National Museum. December 3, 1897. Collected 

 by Dr. E. A. Mearns. 



Distrihidion. — Southern Texas (type locality only known record), 

 northern and central Mexico, probably iutergradiug with the t}-pical 

 form to the south of the central plateau country. 



General Characters. — This form differs from the typical form of 

 megalophylla in the much heavier and broader second upper pre- 

 molar, which bears a very heavy and wide internal shoulder. The 

 forearm seems to average slightly longer, but this was rather unsat- 

 isfactorily determined as all the available specimens of the tj^pical 

 form are skins. 



Teeth. — Essentially as in megalophylla except for the form of 

 the second upper premolar. This tooth is broader than the length 

 of the labial border, the internal portion of the tooth is much more 

 extensive, a broad roimded shallow shoulder being formed, which 

 development is comparatively slight in megalophylla. 



Color. — Upper parts broccoli-brown, the whole with a faint 




170 PEOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



silvery suffusion; hair of the uape and upper part of tlie head 

 basally pale ecru, which tint shows through the general color, pro- 

 ducing a lighter appearance in those regions. Lower surface 

 wood-brown, becoming ecru on the sides and flanks. Jlembranes 

 hair-brown. 



Measureinenti. — Type (collector's measurements): "Length, 

 90;'' tail vertebrte, 2H; alar expanse, 373; finger (longest), 90; 

 head, 17; forearm, 56 mm." Average of thirteen alcoholic speci- 

 mens: Length of head and body, 58.8 mm.; head, 16.7; ear, 15.9; 

 tragus, 6.3; forearm, 53.3; thumb, 7.6; third finger, 93.1; tibia, 

 21.6; calcaneiun, 21.8; foot, 9.5; tail, 25.8. 



Remarks. — Tliis form can readily be distinguished from typical 

 megalophylla and m. intermedia by the form of the second upper 

 premolar. Its distribution seems to coincide ■with the tableland 

 of INIesico (and its more northern remnant), though two specimens 

 from Tampico are perfectly typical. 



Specimens Examined. — Seventeen — two skins, thirteen alcoholics, 

 two skulls — all from the United States National Museum : 



Fort Clark, Tex. (1). 



Tampico, Tamaulipas, Mex. (2). 



Guanajuato, Guanajuato, Mex. (1). 



Mirador, Vera Cruz, Mex. (8). 



Orizaba, Vera Cruz, Mex. (2). 



Morelos, Mex. (3). 



Uormoops megalophylla intermedia (Miller). 



1000. Murmoopa intermedia ^lillcr, Pioc. Biol. See. Wasliiugton, 

 XIII, p. 100. October 31, 1900. 



Tyjje Locality. — Cave at Hatto, north coast of Curasao, West 

 Indies. Type, adult female, Ko. 102,174 Coll. U. S. National 

 Museum. 



Distribution. — Apparently limited to the island of Cura9ao, 

 where it frequent* " caves and rock crevices in all parts of the 

 Island." 



General Characters. — Differing from typical megalophylla in the 

 smaller general size, and the greater size and general crowded con- 

 dition of the first upjier premolar. 



Teeth. — Essentially as in M. megalophylla, l)ut differing in the 

 thicker and hea%-ier first upper premolar, which tooth is crowded 



"This without doubt includes the tail. 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 171 



between the cauiiie and second premolar, completely filling the 

 space. 



Color. — In describing the color one cannot do better than quote 

 the original description — " Brown phase: entire dorsal surface 

 sepia, the fur paler beneath the surface and each hair tipped with 

 light drab. The drab tips produce a distinct blooai in certain 

 lights. Under parts very pale yellowish broccoli-brown, lightest on 

 belly, flanks and pubic region, faintly darker across chest. Ked 

 phase : like brown phase but entire pelage suffased with cinnamon. 

 Pale phase: light salmon -buff above and below, becoming more 

 red about shoulders and head. Ears and membranes dark brown 

 in all three color phases." The brown phase appeare to be simply 

 an intermediate between the two extremes. 



Measuretnents. — Average of seven alcoholic specimens: Length of 

 head and body, 55.5 mm.; head, 16.7; ear, 14.5; tragus, 5.4; 

 forearm, 50.8; thumb, 6.3; third finger, 86.9; tibia, 20.9; cal- 

 caneiim, 21.7; foot, 9.7; tail, 23.7. 



Bemarh. — In view of the slight differentiation of this form I 

 prefer to consider it a subspecies and not a full species. Future 

 study may show that it is strictly insular and that no iutergrada- 

 tion occurs, but I prefer to treat it on the same basis as the other 

 newly recognized form of this group, the dental characters of which 

 are even more striking, though the difference in size is not so 

 apparent. 



Speeimens Examined. — Fourteen — six skins, seven alcoholics, one 

 skull — all from the U. S. Natioual 'Maseum : 



Curagao, West Indies (14). 




172 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[March, 



s 

 g 



s 




1902."! NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



April 1. 

 Mr. Charles Morris iu the Chair. 



Twelve persons present. 



Papers under tlie following titles were presented for publication : 

 ' ' Two Diseases of the White Cedar, ' ' by J. W. Harshberger. Ph. D. 

 " A Eevision of the Genus ISIormoops," by James A. G. Rehn. 



April 8. 



Mr. Benjamin Smith Lyman in the Chair. 



Eight persons present. 



The death of Charles G. Sower, a member, March 22, was an- 

 nounced. 



April 15. 

 Mr. Charles Morris in the Chair. 



Eighteen persons present. 



Papers under the following titles were presented for publication : 

 " On Phylogenetic Classiiication, " by Thomas H. ]Mout- 



gomery, Jr. 



" On the Localities of A. Adams' Japanese Helicidoe," by 



Henry A. Pilsbry. 




174 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



Ai'RiL 22. 

 Mr. Charles Morris iu the Chair. 



Fifteen persons present. 



A paper entitled ' ' Observations on Galeopitheciis volans, ' ' by 

 Henry C. Chapman, ^I.D., was presented for publication. 



April 29. 

 ]\Ir. Charles ]\Iorris in the Chair. 



Twelve persons present. 



Papers under the following titles were presented for publication : 

 ' ' Descrij)tions of Some New Polynoidse, with a List of Other 

 Polychffita from North Greenland Waters," by J. Percy Moore. 

 " The Classification of the Aleyrodidfe, " by T. D. A. Cockerel). 



Edwin C. Jellett, Frederick A. Packard, M.D., and Robert C. 

 Banes were elected members. 



The following were ordered to be printed : 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 175 



A COLLECTION OF REPTILES AND BATKACHIANS FKOM BOKNEO 

 AND THE LOO CHOO ISLANDS. 



BY ARTHUR ERWIN BROWN. 



Through the courtesy of the officers of the Wistar Institute of 

 Anatomy and Biology, I have been permitted to examine the fine 

 coUectiou of reptiles and batrachians, numbering 327 specimens, 

 made by Dr. William H. Furness, Dr. H. M. Hiller and Mr. 

 Alfred Harrison, Jr., iu west and northwest Borneo and the Loo 

 Choo Islands, between the years 1893 and 1897. 



The thoroughness of previous coUeetmg in the porl ions of Borneo 

 visited by these gentlemen, is attested by the fact that the present 

 series yields but one Bornean species hitherto imdescribed ; but a 

 complete list of tlie species represented iu the coUectiou is here 

 given, with such notes as contribute to our knowledge of the herpc- 

 tology of those regions. 



BORNEO. 



REPTILIA. 



Chelonia. 

 Bellia borneeusis (Gray). 



Five specimens ; Kapuas river. 



AH about 70 mm. long. Dark olive-brown above ; plastron dirty 

 green with dark sutures. Soft parts colored like the carapace. 

 There are some irregidarities in the plates. Xo. 2,413 has the 

 fourth and fifth vertebrals and the fourth costal broken up into six 

 irregular plates. Xo. 2,406 has the fourth costal on one side, and 

 the fifth vertebral trausvereely divided. The front of the'forearm 

 has enlarged transverse scales, but on the outer side of the hind 

 leg they are small. 

 Cyclemys platynota Gray. 



One specimen, 70 mm. long; Baram. 



Green above and below; each vertebral with a pair of small 

 black spots and each costal with one similar spot. Sutures between 

 all ventral shields dark. 




176 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



<!yolemys dhor Gray. 



Three specimens, Kapuas river ; one, Sarawak ; two, Borneo. 



Largest, ?, 196 mm. In tlie adults the carapace is distinctly 

 flattened on the vertebral area, and an indistinct ridge Ls outlined 

 by the centres of the areolte on the costals; this does not appear in 

 very yoimg examples, and is first indicated in No. 2,436. 74 mm. 

 long. In the adults the dark markings on the plastron have dis- 

 ajipeared. 

 Geoemyda spinosa Gray 



Two from Kapuas river; one, Baram (collected by Charles 

 Hose) ; one, Borneo. 



Largest measui'es 200 umi. d'. No. 5,688, from Baram, 

 '85 mm. long, is much darker than the larger specimens. 



Trionyx subplanus Geoff. 



One specimen, 73 mm. long ; Kapuas river. 



Lacektilia. 



Gymnodaotylus marmoratus Kuhl. 

 Two t ; Borneo 



Gonatodes kendalli (Gray). 



One specimen ; Kuching 

 Hemidaotylns frenatns D. and B. 



Two, Borneo, d"', ? ; five, Kapuas i'i\cr. 



Hemidaotylus platyurus (Schn.). 



Five, Kapuas river. 

 Gehyra mutilata (Wieg). 



One, Sarawak ; one, Kuching. 



Gecko stentor (Cautor). 



One, Kapuas I'iver; one, Borneo. 

 Gecko monarchns (D. and B.). 



One, Borneo; one, Sarawak; three, Kuching. 

 Draco volans L. 



Eight cJ' and six ? ; Kuching, Baram. 

 Draco qninqnefasciatos Gray. 



Cue, Borneo; one, Kuching. 

 Gonyooephalns liogaster (Guntb.). 



One, Borneo. 




1902,] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 177 



Japalura nigrilabris Peters. 



One ?, Borneo. 

 Calotes criatatellus (Kuhl). 



Ten, Borneo; five, Kapuas river; one, Kuching; one, Baram. 



Mr. Boiilenger's conclusion that C. moluccanus can not be sepa- 

 rated from the present species is fully justified by tbe specimens in 

 this collection, which exhibit equal variability to those studied by 

 him. 



"Varanus salvator (Laur. ). 



One adult, Borneo; one young, Kapuas river. 

 In both specimens the ventral scales are smooth. 



Varanus heteropholis Boul. 



P. Z. S. of London, 1893. p. 506, PI. XXIX. 



No. 2,380, collected by jMessrs. Harrison and Hiller at Baram, 

 Sarawak, is somewhat intermediate between V. diunerili and the 

 single specimen from Mt. Didit, described by Mr. Boulenger under 

 the above name; but as it presents the characteristic 'vertebral 

 area of granides, entirely separating the large dorsal and lateral 

 scales, shown by that specimen, they woidd seem to be identical. 

 It differs from Mr. Boulenger' s specimen in that the nuchal scales 

 are not flat, but distinctly subconical, and the ventrals are without 

 a keel. The large nuchal and dorsal scales are more or less sepa- 

 rated from each other by granules. The whole upper surface is 

 dark -olive, with the black markings much as in F. dumerili, but 

 the crossbands on the body are narrow and indistinct and are more 

 or less prolonged on to the ventrals. The imder surface is yellow; 

 throat and neck with short, longitudinal black markings. 



Total length 530 mm. (tail 308). 



Taohydromus sexlineatus Daud. 



Three, Kuching; three, Borneo. 

 Mabuia rugifera (Stolic). 



Nos. 2,370, 2,444, 2,445, from Kuching, correspond exactly to 

 M. rugifera, except that a postnasal is present, and the anterior 

 loreal is rather more elevated than the second; the doreal scales are 

 in 28 and 29 rows. I am not inclined to separate them on account 

 of these differences. 



Mabuia multifasciata (Kuhl). 



Nineteen, Sawarak ; one, Kuching; seven, Borneo. 

 13 




178 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



Mabuia rudis Boul. 



Xo. 2,241, from Kuching. 



Lygosoma vittatum 'Edel.). 



Three, Sarawak; two, Kuching; one, Borneo. 

 Lygosoma nitens Peters. 



One, Borneo. 

 Tropidophorus brookii (Gray). 



Nos. 5,697, 5,853, Borneo. 



These specimens are each about 220 mm. long. In each of 

 them the prefrontals are \videly separated, a-s in the type speci- 

 men. 



Ophidia. 



Python retioolatus (Schn.). 



Two, Borneo; two, Baram. 

 Cylindrophis rufas (Laur.l. 



Two, Kuching ; two, Borneo ; one, Celebes, collected by Charles 

 Hose. 



Largest specimen .380 mm. 

 Xenopeltis unicolor Reinw. 



One, Kapuas river. 



Yentrals 170; subcaudals 29. 



Folydontophis geminatus (Boie). 



No. 2, .338, from Baram. 



Length 485 mm. (tail 120) ; ventrals 150; subcaudals 51. 



This specimen corresponds exactly to Gunther's description of 

 Ablabes flaviceps, but is characterized by an extremely short tail, with 

 a reduced number of subcaudals ; the lowest given by ^Ir. Bou- 

 lenger being 89. 

 Tropidonotus triangaligerus Boie. 



Nos. 5,692, 5,702, Borneo. 



No. 5,702 T refer to this species, with wliich it agrees in scu- 

 tellation, although there is a considerable difference in the color 

 pattern, which is very obscure, but seems to consist of a roM- of 

 black vertebral spots and an indistinct series of smaller ones on 

 each side, much closer together than in typjc^il iriuitgullgeru.'^. 

 Each ventral heavily edged with black at the ends. 



Length 720 mm. Ttail 246); ventrals 140; subcaudals 105. 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 179 



Dryocalamus trilineatus sp. nov. 



Rostral barely visil^le from above ; intemasals much shorter than 

 prefrontals; frontal longer than the snout, shorter than parietals; 

 loreal long and entering orbit ; no preocidar, the supraocular ex- 

 tending down to meet the loreal ; one narrow postocular ; temporals 

 1 (2)-2; seven upper labials, third and fourth in the orbit; pos- 

 terior chin shields short. Scales in 15 rows. Ventrals 228; anal 

 entire ; subcaudals 87 jsairs. 



Total length 285 mm. (tail 70). 



Olive-brown above, with a narrow greenish-yellow vertebral 

 stripe, and another on each side, on the fifth row of scales. Top 

 of head olive-brown. Ventrals, outer row of scales and both 

 series of labials of the same color as the light stripes. 



Type specimen, No. 5, 825 from Baram district, collected by 

 Drs. Furness and Hiller. 



This species much resembles Dryocalamus trwtrigatus Gunth., of 

 unknown locality, but compared with ]\Ir. Boidenger's plate' the 

 head is flatter and the upper labials less elevated, the rostral is 

 smaller, there is but one postocular, and the color appears to be 

 different. 



Xenelaphis hexagonotus (Cantor). 



One, Baram ; collected by Charles Hose. 



Coluber oxyoephalus Boie. 



Three, Kapuas river ; one, Baram ; one, Borneo. 

 Coluber melanurus Schl. 



One, Kuching ; three, Baram, collected by Charles Hose. 



No. 5,810 has the preocular divided on one side, and 5,814 has 

 the anterior ends of the first row of temporals cut off, forming an 

 extra series of small temporals. 



Dendrophis piotus (Gm.). 



Seventeen specimens ; Kuching, Kapuas river, Baram, Sarawak. 



No. 2,-374, from Baram, 780 mm. long (tail 250), ventrals 169, 

 subcaudals 121, is bluish-black above with the lateral stripes very 

 indistinct; belly yellow, much marked with blue posteriorly. No. 

 5,691 has the loreal horizontally divided on both sides; tem- 

 porals 1-2. 



'Cat. of Snakes in Brit. 'Mus., I, p. 372, PI. XXV, tio-. 3. 




180 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



Dendrophis formosns Boie. 

 One, Kapuas river. 



Sendrelaphis caudolineatus (Gray). 



Eight specimens; Kapuas river, Kuching, Baram. 



No. 2,378, from Baram, 1,160 mm. (tail 300), veutrals 183, 

 subcaudals 97, is dark bluish-black with obscure lateral stripes; 

 belly slate color. 



Simotes octolineatus (Schn.i. 



One, Sarawak ; two, Baram ; one, Borneo. 

 Ablabes tricolor (ScM.). 



One, Borneo. 



Calamaria vermiformis D. and B. 



Two, Borneo. 



No. 5,816 has the body completely encircled by alternating rings 

 of brownish-black and pale-yellow, the dark rings being widest on 

 the back and the light ones exactly the reverse; whole head pale- 

 yellow; length 172 mm. (tail 13). This corresponds to the form 

 described by Gunther as C fiaviceps. 



Hypsirhina enhydris (Schn.). 

 Two, Kapuas river. 

 No. 2,561 has ventrals 157; subcaudals 31. 



Hypsirhina dorise (Peters). 



No. 2,311, Kapuas river. 



The example which I refer to this species corresponds nearly to 

 Petei-s' description and plate. It has, however, but 27 rows of 

 scale*. The head shields are quite anomalous; the left intcrna.«al 

 is divided, as is also 0!ie of the parictals, and the anterior tcm[)i)ral 

 on one side. Length 810 mm. (tail 95); ventrals 160; .sub- 

 caudals 44. The yellow of the ventral surface extends to the four 

 outer rows of scales, where it becomes reddish, as it does on both 

 series of labials. 

 Dipsadomorphus dendrophilns (Boie). 



Three, Borneo. 

 Oipsadomorphns cynodon (Boie). • 



Two, Baram ; one, Kapuas river ; one, Rirueo. 



Psammodynastes pulverulentus (Boie). 



No. 2,')ll'.l, Kapuas river, length 625 njni. ( (ail \'1^\: ventrals 



y, 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 181 



164; subcaudals 70. No. 2, .567, same locality, length 515 mm. 

 (tail 120) ; veutrals 161 ; subcaudals 69. 



Psammodynastes piotus Gunth. 



Three specimens from Kapuas river. 



No. 2,2-36 is 518 mm. long (tail 118) ; ventrals 159; subcaudals 

 80. Body slender and stripes only indicated. In form and pro- 

 portions this species is very closely approached by No. 2,567 (P. 

 pulverulentus) , and the distinctness of the two species appears'to 

 me questionable. 



Dryophis prasinus Boie. 



Ten specimens ; Kapuas river, Kuching, Baram. 

 Chrysopelea ornata (Shaw). 



No. 5,690, Baram district, 898 mm. (tail 250); ventrals, 21 3 

 (the last one divided) ; subcaudals 135. The light spots on the 

 back are confluent into an 'almost continuoiLS vertebral stripe, be- 

 coming obscure toward the tail. The ventrals are unmarked, and 

 the subcaudals have narrow black margins. 



Enhydrina valakadien (Boie). 



One, Baram ; one, Borneo. 



The Baram specimen, 840 mm. long (tail 115), has a pair of 

 elongated shields detached from the inner border of the parietals, 

 immediately behind the frontal. 



The color is greenish-gray above in one specimen, and lead color 

 in the other; beneath, yellow. 

 Bungarus fasciatus (Schn.). 



One, Baram ; one, Borneo. 

 Bungarus flavioeps Reinh. 



One, Baram. Collected by Charles Hose. 



Naia naia (L-)- 



One, Kuching. 



Dark-olive, (vithout markings except side of head and throat 

 yellowish. 



Laehesis wagleri (Boie). 



Thirteen .specimens; Kapuas river, Kuching, Baram. There 

 is much variation in the color of these specimens. Some are green, 

 many dorsal scales and the ventrals with yellow borders ; others are 

 green above, some scales with yellow centres, the wholly greeu ones 




182 PEOCEEDISGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



being arranged in narrow crossbands, the ventrals yellow, edged 

 with dark-green. No. 2,337, from Baram, 355 mm. long, is 

 bluish-brown on the body, green on the tail, all the scales with 

 narrow pale margins ; ventrals greenish-white with pale borders. 

 Lachesis sumatranas (Raffles). 



One, Baram. Collected by Charles Hose. 



BATRACHIA. 



ECAUDATA. 

 Bana macrodon Kuhl. 

 Two, Borneo. 



Bana tigrina Dand. 



Nine, Baram river ; Borneo. 



These specimens are aU yoimg; the head and body in the largest 

 measuring but 65 mm. 

 Bana erythraea (Schl.). 



One, Kapuas river ; one, Baram ; two, Borneo. 



Length of head and body in the largest 67 mm. ; hiud limb 

 108 mm. 



Bana everetti Boul. 



Cat. Bat. Sal. in Brit. JIiis., p. 73, PI. VI. 



Two, Borneo ; one, Baram river. 



These specimens correspond closely to Mr. Boulenger's description 

 and plate. No. 5,768 is the largest and measures 78 ram. from 

 snout to vent; hind leg 127. In each of them the anterior end of 

 the vomerine teeth is about even with the inner anterior border of 

 the choan.'c. 



Bana glandnlosa Boul. 



Cat. Bat. Sal. in Brit. Mus,, p. 73, PI. VII. 



No. 5,778, Baram river; No. 5,767, Miri, Sarawak; No. 

 5,764, Borneo. 



The three specimens which I refer to this species have the inter- 

 orbital space rather wider than it is figured by Jfr. Boulenger. 

 Tiie color is cither dark -brown or olive above, slightly spotted or 

 marbled with black ; beneatli yellow, spotted with black, most 

 hea\-ily on the throat and under surface of thighs ; jaws black, with 

 three or four vertical yellow liai-s, the largest of which is between 

 the eye and the tympanum. The Miri s{)ecimen, 55 ram. bead and 

 body, is much more distinctly marbled with black on both surfaces 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 183 



than the two older examples; the legs are distinctly crossbanded 



with black. 



Rhaoophorus maculatus (Gray). 



No. 5,808, Borneo, measuring but 32 mm. head and body, is 

 referred with some hesitation to this species, both the tympanum 

 and digital disks being small. This may be a juvenile character. 

 Calophrynus pleurostigma Gunth. 



One, Borneo; three, Baram river (collected by C. Hose). 



Bufo melanostietus Schn. 



Four, Baram river (coU. by C. Hose) ; two, Borneo. 



The largest is 112 mm. head and body; hind leg 160. 



No. 5,776, but 43 mm. long, is probably the young of this 

 species. 

 Bufo biporoatus Gunth. 



Ten specimens ; Baram river, Kuching, Tegora. 



No. 5,783, from Baram, and 5,769, 40 mm. long, might about 

 as well be assigned to B. divergens Peters, but with the small 

 amount of material at my disposal, I am not inclmed to separate 

 them. 



Bufo asper Graven. 



Seven specimens; Kapuas river; Baram river (collected by C. 

 Hose) ; MLri, Sarawak ; Borneo. 



The largest measures 140 mm. snout to vent; hind leg 185. 



LOO CHOO ISLANDS. 



The collections of Drs. Furness and HiUer m the Loo Choo 

 Islands, in 189(3, were made in Goshima and Okinawa; the collec- 

 tors' labels unfortunately do not distinguish between the two local- 

 ities. 



REPTILIA. 



Lacertilia. 

 Hemidaotylus frenatus D- and B. 



No. 5,722, ? ; 5,723, d, Loo Choo Islands. 

 Gehyra intermedia sp. nov. 



Head large and ovoid ; snout a little longer than the distance 

 from eye to ear opening, about once and a fifth the diameter of the 

 orbit. Forehead concave. Ear opening small, broadly oval. 

 Body somewhat depressed ; no lateral membrane on body, limbs nor 




184 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



tail. Digits short, not webbed; iuuer ones well developed, but 

 Avithout a claw ; inferior lamella double, oblique and separated by a 

 groove. Upper surface covered with small rounded granxdes, 

 largest on the snout ; ten or eleven series of small round tubercles 

 on the back, extending on the base of the tail ; no tubercles on the 

 head. 



Abdominal, scales larger than the tubercles, flat and slightly im- 

 bricated. Rostral nearly twice as broad as high, without distinct 

 groove above. Nostril formed by the rostral, first labial and three 

 nasals, of which the uppe;- is largest and separated from its fellow 

 by a small scale. Upper labials 9-10 ; lower 10-11. Mental large, 

 pentagonal, the postero-lateral angles obtuse. Chin shields small, 

 hexagonal and in several transverse series, the anterior largest, the 

 others gradually decreasing in size lo the small throat granides. 

 Tail rather short, rounded and covered above with flat scales rather 

 larger than the granules of the back ; beneath with a median .series 

 of large scales. Nine preanal pores in an angular seiies, meeting 

 centrally. 



Color: dark-brown above, lighter beneath. Each lower labial 

 with a dark spot in the centre. 



Total length 104 mm., tail 46. Length of head 16, breadth 

 12. Body 42. 



Type No. 5,721, Loo Choo Islands. Collected by Drs. Furuess 

 and HiUer, 1896. 



This species differe from the rest of the genus by the pre.sence of 

 dorsal tubercles, such as are found in most Hemidadylus. In most 

 details of scutellation it closely resembles H. marmoraius Hallowell, ' 

 and I would be disposed to regard them as identical, but the fact 

 that Hallowell refers his specimen to the section dactylotela of 

 Dum^ril and Bibron, which included only species mth fully clawed 

 digits, makes such a conclusion impossible, and Hallowell's ty|>e 

 being lost, no further investigation is now practicable. 



Japalnra polygonata (Uallow.). 



Nos. 5,742, 5,743, 5,745. 



Two have eight upper labials, one has seven. 

 Taohydromus smaragdinus Boul. 



No. 5,736. 



»iVo«. Acad. Nat. Set. Phila., 1860, p. 491. 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 185 



Lygosoma pellopleurum (Hallow.)- 



Nos. 5,739, 5,740, 5,741. 



The largest measures 100 mm. Color: rather pale-brown, with 

 a narrow, mcUstinct, dark vertebral line beginning on the neck, 

 and a wider lateral stripe beginning at the eye. 

 Eumeces marginatus (Hallow.). 



Eight specimens. 



No. 5,737 has two postmentals, and the third supraocular is 

 longitudinally divided. 



Ophidia. 

 Sinodon semioarinatus (Cope). 



Nos. 5,724, 5,725. 



The scales in the black crossbands are mostly marked on their 

 centres with the pale ground color. 



The small basal keels and apical pits are barely diistinguishable. 

 Laohe&is flavoviridis (Hallow). 



Eleven specimens ; the largest measures 1,710 mm. (tail272). 



BATRACHIA. 



Ecaudata. 

 Bana gracilis Wieg. 



Seven specimens, the largest measuring but 48 mm. 



Ehaoophorus viridis (Hallow.). 



Pohjpetades viridis Hallow., Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1860, 

 p. 500. 



Nos. 5,718, 5,719, 5,720 are unquestionably to be referred lo 

 this species, and as Hallowell's desci-iption is very meagre, I give 

 the full characters. 



Vomerine teeth in two slightly oblique series, beginning at the 

 inner anterior edge of the choanie. Head rather large; snout 

 short and blimt ; canthus distinct and rounded; loreal region 

 slightly concave; nostril near the end of the snout; mterorbital 

 space nearly twice the width of upper eyelid ; tympanum two-thirds 

 the horizontal diameter of the eye. Fingers half, and toes two- 

 thirds webbed ; finger disks nearly as large as the tjTnpanum, those 

 of the toes smaller; subarticular tubercles rather small; inner 

 metatarsal tubercle elongated; outer absent. Tibio-tarsal jomt 

 reaches to the snout in the largest specimen and just beyond the eye 

 in the smallest. The skin on the back is smooth, on the bellv and 




186 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



under side of tliighs strongly granular. A slight fold from orbit to 

 shoulder above the tympauum. 



Upper surface pale-olive in sjiirits ("probably blue or green iu 

 life) ; underneath yellowish, with small irregular dark spots on 

 the groin. The anterior and posterior surfaces of the thigh are 

 whitish, with small dark spots which extend on the inner tarsus, and 

 iu one specimen on the dorsum of the foot. 



Largest specimen: snout to vent 83 mm. ; hind limb 125. Next 

 largest : snout to vent 76 mm. ; hind limb 1 14. 



Miorohyla undulata sp. nov. 



Nos. 5, 72(i, 5,727, 5,728 are referred to this genus, although 

 they show no trace of a transverse ridge between the choanse, a 

 condition which may be due to immaturity. 



The snout is short ; interorbital space wider than the upper eye- 

 lid. Fingers and toes blunt, but not distinctly dilated ; first finger 

 shorter than second ; toes nearly half webbed ; tubercles small ; outer 

 and inner metatarsal tubercles distinct. The tibio-tarsal joint 

 reaches beyond the eye. Skin smooth. Color : light-olive above, 

 with an undulating dark-brown dorsal band, beginning on the 

 vertex and broadening on the rump, with a narrow prolongation 

 running forward to the snout, and a transverse one to the upper 

 border of each eyelid. A dark stripe from the orbit through the 

 shoulder and a little beyond. Hind legs light-olive, lighter 

 beneath, crossbauded with black on the anterior side of lower leg 

 and tarsus, and an indistinct dark stripe on the anterior border of 

 the thigh. Ventral surface brown, without spots. In 5,728 the 

 markings are obscure. 



5.726. Length of head and body 23 mm. ; hind limb 34. 

 5,728. " " " " 20 " ; " " 34. 



5.727. " " " 17 " ; " " 28. 



This species much resembles the Indo-Chinese Microhyla omata 

 D. and B-. in color pattern, but the toes are move extensively 

 webbed and the legs are longer. 



Caudata. 

 Holge pyrrhogastra ensioauda (Hallow.). 

 Six specimens. 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 187 



ON PHYLOGENETIC CLASSIFICATION.' 



by thomas h. moxtgomeey, jr. 



Introduction. 



The great divereity iu plans of classificaliou i;*, in part, the result 

 of the diversity of standpoints held by their framers. Whether 

 the observer is conscientious in endeavoring to represent the facts 

 as they are, or whether he with more elaslic conscience disregards 

 all which do not coincide wilh his preconceived standpoint, the 

 consequence is a bewildering confusion of individual, wholly sub- 

 jective interpretations. While one relies upon embryological data 

 to great extent, another trusts to the evidence of comparative 

 anatomy, and a third uniles a combination of these two methods iu 

 such a manner as he sees fit. All unite in holding similarity in 

 structure to represent phyletic affinity, but they depart from one 

 another on the question as to what constitutes similarity. And 

 ^gain, among the comparative anatomists, some attribute more 

 value to this organ or organ system, others to that, and while some 

 contend that similarities may be determined by the study of one 

 particular conservative character, others argue that no character 

 should be neglected. And he who finds only likenesses is to be 

 ranked little or no better than he who sees only differences. 



jVs one scheme of classification follows upon another, and in its 

 return receives emendation and perhaps subsequent lack of support, 

 we may well inquire whether, after all, phyletic classification may 

 ever be earnestly considered as more than speculation. Yet those 

 who maintain this view forget that classification is interpretation, 

 and that interpretation here is as allowable as in any other series of 

 facts. Classification is a grouping of concepts necessary for the 

 mind to make, iu order to secure a foothold among the enormous 

 mass of facts, of structure which no one man can grasp. And the 

 reason for the diversity of the interpretations is the enormous num- 

 ber of the organisms themselves ; the greater the array, the more 



' From the Zoological Laboratory of the Dniversity of Pennsylvania. 




188 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [A.pril, 



difficult the exjjlanation. Lamarck pointed out that no groups 

 existed in Nature but only individuals, yet he arrayed these indi- 

 viduals into certain mental groupings, such as was necessary for au 

 understanding of them. 



Classification, orderly arrangement, is demanded, so that the field 

 of facts mav be better surveyed from the vantage points thus 

 gained. But a purely arbitrary and artificial classification, such 

 as many museum curators of an earlier time invented in order 

 to arrange an animal according to superficial examination alone — 

 and such as is still used by many who would avoid patient toil of 

 thorough examination of all the parts — is not a help lo the mind, 

 for it does not represent the organisms in their natural relationships, 

 and hence it aud the morphology must be memorized sei)arately. 

 Phyletic classification should be an epitome of our knowledge of the 

 genetic relations of organisms, aud many tireless workers are 

 striving to make it so. Insomuch it may be regarded as the state- 

 ment of our knowledge of the succession of evolution, and conse- 

 quently, therefore, one of the main aims of zoological research. It 

 is not only a naming and arranging of the individuals we study, 

 not only a .subservient preliiiiiiKiry to such study, but in its per- 

 fected condition a statement of all we have learned about the 

 organisms. All carefid, accurate observation of structure and 

 function, and of the ecological phenomena which help to explain 

 these, must eventually be considered in such classification, l)y a 

 gradual and critical .synthesis of all those facts. 



All that wo learn is exjiressed in its relations, aud we define one 

 organism in terms of anotlier. Thus there arises a whole con- 

 nected representation of the data, and whether we walk by the 

 anatomical, the embryological, the physiological or the ecological 

 path, all must use the same method to test their conclusions, namely, 

 comparison. The classification that we strive for is based upon 

 comparison, aud is to represent the path of evolution as far as the 

 facts allov us to determine it. 



There has been sliown by a more modern school of investigators 

 a spirit of disapprobation if not of disgast again.st the pkitting of 

 " genealogical trees." To some extent they are justified in this 

 disapproval, when we note the variety of opinions as to the 

 relationships of many groups of animals. Thus, how few are the 

 groups which have not been called upon to serve as the ancestors of 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 189 



the Vertebrates! Any one can recall the manifold opinions as to 

 the affinities of the Rotifera, of Macrobiotus and the Gordii, of the 

 Diplopode Myriopoda, of Limulus, of the Pycoogouida, and of 

 Sagitta and Pentastomum ; indeed, these examples could be much 

 increased, and we could say that only in regard to very few 

 groups is there any unanimity of opinion. Yet the phylogenist 

 may well, in his turn, note the lack of unanimity in the conclusions 

 reached in other lines of investigation. Has the cause of variation 

 been explained, or have the phenomena of cleavage and differ- 

 entiation, or those of cell division and inheritance, and how much is 

 known of the interaction of sense organ and central nervous sys- 

 tem ? The phylogenist does not answer his critics in a vindictive 

 spirit, but to show that he as well as they must reach correct 

 interpretations slowly. A view dispi-oved is, after all, something 

 gained, for it serves to narrow the field. The phylogenetic classifi- 

 "Cation of animals is perhaps the greatest task that a naturalist has 

 before him, the aim to represent the sequence and relations of all 

 known organisms, which presupposes a thorough knowledge of their 

 structure and an undeistanding of the phenomena of growth and 

 change. 



Whether such a perfect classification can ever be obtained or not, 

 it is the part of the naturalist to aid in its pursuance, even if not 

 by working upon it directly. One does not stop before a task for 

 fear he cannot complete it. When one looks upon it not only as a 

 determination of relationships, but also as involving an under- 

 standing of growth phenomena, it is found to be a project demand- 

 ing the highest mental effort. 



It seems that perhaps more logical and true ideas of the relation- 

 ships of animals may be gained by a critical consideration of the 

 standpoints employed — of attempting to eliminate those that may 

 be erroneous. If the standpoints can be logically lessened, the 

 amount of the present confusion would be reduced. The animals 

 now living do not represent more than a fragment of the forms that 

 have once existed, and very few of the latter have been preserved 

 geologically. For the vast number of forms, most of those of softer 

 structure, no paleontological remains can be exi^ected ; and there- 

 fore for the determination of the ancestry of those now existent 

 we must rely upon the study of the anatomy of the latter. This 

 may be the anatomy of the adult stage or of the earlier stages; 




190 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



and tlie present contribution i.s in tlie main a discussion of the 

 values of the comparative anatomical and of the embrvological 

 methods in the determination of phylogeuy. 



The materials that the phylogenist has before him are, first, the 

 animals themselves ; and second, the accumulation of pre%dous 

 studies upon their morphology. If the latter were always accurate 

 representations, they would give one, iu a short space of time and 

 with a minimum of labor, the facts he needs ; but very few of the 

 large array of morphological monographs are even tolerably accu- 

 rate, and because of this one frequently goes astray in trusting to 

 the descriptions of others. Hence, first and foi'cmost, our ideas of 

 morphological details nuist be accurate — i. e., without preconceived 

 bias of interpretation — and, as far as possible, we should oureelves 

 study the organisms which we compare. In the next place the 

 whole method must be synthetic, comparing object with object 

 until gradually a connected mental superstructure is formed, all the 

 parts of which have been separately studied. This by no means 

 implies the avoidance of working theories, for it has been the expe- 

 rience of the naturalist that such theories are exceedingly fruitful 

 in directing research; but it does imply that the working theory 

 should be considered as such and as nothing more, until it can 

 be demonstrated that there are no overlooked facts which may 

 be in contradiction to it. At every point the method should be 

 tested as well as the observation. By adding comparison to com- 

 parison, provided we are working wiih a method in who.se relative 

 correctness we can feel confidence, we may expect fuller unanimity 

 of result and gradual lessening of confusion in interpretation. 



I. The Possible Modes of Classifkatkin. 



A classification is necessary to enable a concise grouping of the 

 facts ; a phylogenetic classification should be the statement of the 

 origin and transformation of organisms. Obviously there is a 

 necessity of considering whether the study of structure alone is 

 sufficient for determining this racial progress, or whether the other 

 attributes of organisms should be considered. In a word, why 

 siiould the strictly morphological cla.*sifiwition, the one dominant 

 in present thought, lie granted precedence '! 



Any of the following classifications might be instituted, besides 

 the morphological: (1) Physiological, one ba.«cd iipnn the degree, 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 191 



kind, and mode of interaction of those activities of parts known 

 as functions. Here woidd presumably be found a progress from 

 the more generalized to the more specialized, accompanying the 

 evolution of the organism, just as in structural relations. (2) 

 Physical or Dynamical, one based upon the so-called physical ener- 

 gies or motions ; for such motions might be found to show successive 

 complexity, according to changes within the organism. (3) 

 Chemical, for increasing complexity and instability of the sub- 

 stances composing the organism might go on parallel with the course 

 of racial development. (4) Ecological, based upon the relations 

 of the orgauism to its environment, its kinds of habits and their 

 modifications, its geographical distribution, its general responses to 

 environmental stimuli. (5) Psychical, dealing with its mental 

 operations (this might be classed with the physiological). 



Now these possible kinds of classification fall into two groups, 

 the physical and chemical, and the morphological, physiological, 

 ecological and psychical ; for while the physical phenomena of an 

 organism may be considered by themselves, and the chemical 

 equally so, all the other kinds of phenomena are closely correlated. 

 We might term the physical and chemical aspects inorganic, and 

 the others organic, were these expressions not now becoming some- 

 what obsolete. There may have been an evolution of the " inor- 

 ganic ' ' as well as of the ' ' organic ' ' energies of organism, so that 

 d priori a phyletic classification might be based upon the physical or 

 the chemical phenomena. But how much has been determined of 

 the evolution of physical and chemical energies ? Certain of their 

 present actions are becoming explained, by gradual synthesis many 

 compound substances have become built up, and in change in the 

 substances possibly the physical movements of these substances 

 become changed ; but are there facts to show that all substances 

 have been derived from one primeval substance, or that all kinds of 

 physical motion are referable to one ancestral kind ? The uncer- 

 tainty on these points, the lack of relatively positive facts, the great 

 hiatus in our knowledge of physical and chemical relations as studied 

 particularly in organisms, are sufficient reasons for neglecting at 

 the present time any attempt to base a phyletic classification of or- 

 ganisms upon such relations. Until all the phenomena of growth 

 and structure in organisms can be expressed in purely physical and 

 chemical terms, which so far has not been possible, it would be in- 




192 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



correct to build upon classifications which ■would neglect many of 

 the energies and phenomena of organisms which particularly dis- 

 tinguish them from non -organisms. 



There then remain to be compared the morphological, physiological, 

 ecological and psychical classifications, and to be determined which 

 of them can be most profitably emploj'ed in tracing the course of 

 evolution. All these are closely related, for the nervous system, 

 e. g., shows a structure, a fimction, a relation to habits and envi- 

 ronment, and to so-called mental phenomena. The living structure 

 and its activity are inseparable, and both have close connection with 

 the en\-ironment. The fact that the\- are all so closely and insepar- 

 ably correlated that in treating of an organism the naturalist is 

 obliged to regard it In all of these aspects, would argue tliat a 

 classification might be based equally well upon any one of them. 

 Much more has been determined in regard to structural than to 

 physiological, psychical or ecological relations of organisms, so that 

 a morphological classification, having more facts at its command, 

 is at present more practicable than anj' other. In time the mor- 

 phological classification nuist be tested by the othei-s, and now no 

 phyletic classification is justifiable which would not regard the 

 functions and the- interactions to the environment, for these have 

 modified the structure. Function has produced structure, and 

 structure so formed in turn tends to restrain change of function, 

 and the stimuli of the environment are the strong masters of the 

 organism. Hence structure, function, relation to environment, 

 each mirrors the others, any one of them might be the basis of 

 the classification ; and if we now select the morphological charac- 

 teristics as the basis for detenuining the phylogeny, it is because 

 they offer its at present the richest material. But starting as we do 

 with a classification ba.scd upon similarities determined ou structure, 

 we are not to consider that on structure alone our ultimate phyletic 

 classification is to rest ; for to undei-stand the phylogeny of organ- 

 isms we should not view them as seen in certain instants of time 

 only, but must explain the continuous change that has occurred 

 between those instants by analyzing the phenomena of growth and 

 of reaction to en ^•iron mental stimuli. The phenomena of structure, 

 when the comparisons have been rightly instituted, may go far 

 toward explaining the path of evolution, but the change produced 

 by evolution, which is ecjually necessary for our ideas of phylo- 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 193 



geny, can be determined only by considering in addition the ener- 

 gies and activities of organisms, and their interaction with the 

 environment. 



II. The Individual. 



Organisms are li\'ing entities, yet, since each organism is known 

 (o be composed of parts, there arises the necessity of determining 

 the degree or kind of individuals that are to be classified. In 

 Nature occur only individuals, as was clearly pointed out by La- 

 marck, and is generally acknowledged at the present time, 

 species and other groups being arbitrary concepts. Hence it 

 is individuals that are to be classified and mentally arranged into 

 groups characterized by similarity of structure ; but before this can 

 be done it is necessary to decide what is meant by the term " indi- 

 vidual." 



The primary idea of an individual is independence, as in saying 

 " an individual is that which is capable by itself of performing all 

 the activities necessary for its existence " ; or " that which cannot 

 be subdivided without ceasing to be." But neither of these state- 

 ments are quite correct, for no organism Ls wholly independent of 

 other organisms and of its environment, and experiment has 

 shown (in cases of regeneration) that what are commonly kno\vn 

 as individuals may be subdivided, and yet not cease to exist ; the 

 independence then is one of relative degree. Another criterion is 

 that of structural disassociation : an indi\'idual Is an organLsm struc- 

 turally complete in itself, not a part of a larger structural whole ; 

 though in practice tiiis definition is often found of little value, as 

 in organisms forming corms and stocks, yet perhaps it is as far- 

 reaching as any that can be offered. Another criterion would be 

 the ability of reproducing itself through an ontogenetic cycle simi- 

 lar to that by which it had been formed. Yet, with this definition 

 difficulties at once arise. For while, e. g., the o\'um of a bird, 

 once fertilized, can form an adult bird containing ova in its 

 ovary, the last-named ova are unable to give rise to a second gener- 

 ation of adult birds until they are first fertilized. And the adult 

 hen bird cannot produce a new generation imtU its ova are fertilized 

 by spermatozoa from the male. The ovum of a bird, deposited 

 outside the body of the mother, would generally be regarded a,s an 

 individual, and so would the adult hen or cock; but the ovum can- 

 13 




194 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



uot reproduce itself without being fertilized, nor can the hen or 

 cock reproduce themselves without mutual union of their reproduc- 

 tive elements. In other words, this criterion makes uo allowance 

 for the general occurrence of organisms which comj)leraeut each 

 other in ensuring procreation. It is doubtful whether any organism 

 can reproduce itself indefinitely without at least occasional interac- 

 tion ^vith another organism; in the Metazoa the dioecious condition 

 would appear to be the primitive one ; accordingly, the lowest organ- 

 isms at some period in their reproductive cycle, the higliest organ- 

 isms at each period of reproduction, need co6f)eration with comple- 

 mental individuals in order to insure successful reproduction. 

 Whether the eomplemental individuals arc structurally alike, as in 

 the Infusoria and hermaphroditic ilolkisca, or whether they arc struc- 

 turally dissimilar, as in most dioecious forms, it would still hold that 

 the single organism would not be capable by itself to reproduce 

 itself. And again, accidentally infertile organisms or normally 

 infertile organisms, such as the worker females of the Hymeuoptera, 

 could on this definition not be classed as individuals since they are 

 unable to procreate themselves ; yet, no one would maintain that an 

 ox or a worker ant is not an indi^■idual. • Therefore this criterion 

 of individuals, the ability by itself to reproduce itself, must be 

 changed to " ability, on interaction with eomplemental individuals, 

 to reproduce itself.'' But this definition will not enable us to 

 determine the individuals to be considered in phyletic classification, 

 as we shall proceed to show. 



There are found among or'gauisms, as has been so frequently 

 reiterated, many degi'ees and kinds of indi\nduals. For each more 

 complex organism nuist be decided wliat is the higlier individual, 

 and what the individuals of lower grades. The ideas of conn, 

 stock, pei-son, organ, intergrade, sometimes for the same orgauisni, 

 almost always when we compare complex organisms of different 

 kinds. Thus we may term " colony'' or " conn" the connected 

 individuals of the protozoan Glohigerina, a proliferating Hydroid 

 stalk, the unified bundles of spermatozoa of an Isopod Crustacean, 

 or a compound Tunicate. ^Vud yet how these several organizations 



'This objection to the definition is not, however, perfectly fair, since 

 in classification we deal witli normal and not accidentally nuililaled 

 organisms, and since a worker ant may in one sense be considered 

 embryonic, because its genilal organs and ova do not attain a complete 

 development, but are arrested in tlieir growth. 




1902.] XATUKAL SCIENCES OF PHILAIiELPHIA. 195 



differ structuially ! lu the Timicate orgauization itself a great 

 series of " individuals " may be distinguished, as one will. Thus 



(1) a cellular individual, such as a chromosome or a centrosome ; 



(2) a tissue individual, a cell; (3) an organ individual, a tissue 

 or some specialized part of the organ ; (4) what is generally spoken 

 of as an organ, such as the heart or the intestine; (5) an organ 

 system, such as the body wall; (6) what is generally regarded as 

 the indiTOlual in this particular case, and (7) what is termed the 

 corm. For the cytologist, the embryologist aud the anatomist the 

 idea of what constitutes the individual will differ. Likewise, there 

 are many possibilities of interpretation of the organization of a 

 Sijjhonophore ; aud in the case of a proliferating Hydra or Micro- 

 stomum, it is practically impossible to decide at jast what time two 

 individuals appear in the ]ilace of the original one. 



All the preceding bears out what each naturalist iinds in his own 

 experience, that there occur many degrees of individuals, and that 

 a sharp definition to cover all cases is practically impossible. Per- 

 haps the neai'est to it is found in the idea of stractural disassociatiou, 

 though this loo breaks down when we consider the various kinds of 

 corms and colonies foimd in organisms, and 1 he cases of intimate sym- 

 biosis (such as the TurbeUarian Convoluta with its enclosed plant 

 cells). And yet to work upon our phyletic classification, it is 

 necessary to know what are the individuals which should be the 

 materials of the study ; perhaps they may be more closely deter- 

 mined by the following line of reasoning. 



Progressive evolution is a change from the more simple aud 

 generalized to the more complex and specialized in both the indi- 

 vidual and the race. lu the evolution of the race we consider the 

 organism as a whole. This gives us the working criterion of indi- 

 vidual, which is concisely the largest disassociated whole. And it 

 is in this seuse that the term individual is generally employed by 

 phylogeuists — that is, ' ' individuals ' ' are the units which make up 

 our concept of ' ' species, ' ' as the latter term is usually employed 

 by naturalists. This definition will not apply to all cases, as, for 

 instance, certain corms ; but in many, if not all, such cases the 

 ' ' individual ' ' and the ' ' colony of indiNaduals ' ' may be eventually 

 distinguished by comparison of undoubted single individuals with 

 corms of united individuals of genetic affinitj' with the former. 

 And it is necessary wherever possible to distinguish an individual 

 from a corm, so that relatively similar imits may be compared. 




196 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



III. The Organism and the Stage at which it is to be 



Classified. 



For purposes of phylogeaetic classification it is perhaps best to 

 regard " organism " as synonymous with " indi^■idual " — i. e., the 

 largest disassociated whole. Yet under the idea of ' ' organism ' ' 

 have been grouped living luiits of different values, just as we have 

 seen to be the case with the idea of " individual." And on this 

 account it is necessary to see what these degrees of organL^nis ai'e, 

 and wliy a particular degree of organism should be made synonj'- 

 mous with a particular degree of individual. 



In a nuilticellular animal parts of a cell have been regarded as 

 organisms. Thus Altmann has considered certain granules, which 

 according to him compose the living substance, to be each of them 

 separate organisms, so that the cell would represent a symbiotic 

 state of many organisms.' The centrosome is frequently spoken 

 of as an organism, and by Eisen the nucleus, the cytoplasm and 

 the attraction sphere have been regarded as three dL-^tinct organisms 

 in a state of symbiosis. Chromosomes, by those who have cor- 

 roborated tlie original position of Boveri, are looked upon as 

 cellular individuals, though it is recognized that these elements 

 stand in intimate functional connection with the rest of the cell. 

 But what concerns us here most ])articular!y is the standpoint of 

 those who consider the nudticellidar animal to be an aggregate of 

 organisms, the cells ; and the view which regards an Annelid to be 

 composed of a chain of organisms, its mctameres or segments, or a 

 Cestode to be made up of a row of organisms, its proglottids. 



Now these various degrees or kinds of ' ' organisms ' ' would not 

 be so confused if a distinction were drawn sharply between 

 "organism" and "element of an orgsinLsni." Under "organ- 

 ism" we should then understand " the largest disassociated whole," 

 and its parts, as organs, tissues, cells or parts of cells, would be the 

 "elements" which comiwse it. "Whitman .in his paper, 2'he 

 Lmdeqitacij of the Cell-Theory of Development, has iwinted this 

 out most incisively. There he shows that structure is dependent 

 upon the general organization, not upon the particular nature (if 

 the cell components; acellular and cellular organs may be com - 



'That the protoplasm of the cell is an aggregate of minute but visible 

 separate granules, as Altmann endeavored to prove, has not been cor- 

 roborated by the more careful slitdics on the cell. 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 197 



pared, unicellular with multieellulai-, aud intracelhdar with inter- 

 cellular. In other words, we might say that it is not the cells which 

 make the organism, but the organism which makes the cells. This 

 thought maybe carried further: the cell contains particular parts 

 or elements, such as chromosomes, centrosomes and cytoplasm, but 

 is more than a mere aggregate of these; aud the Anuelidau organi- 

 zation contains parts, such as the metameres, but the latter are not 

 .separate organisms. Thus the ^letazoan is not a mere symbiotic 

 aggregate of cells regarded as individual organisms, but these cells 

 are merely subservient parts of the whole organization. Under 

 " organism " then we must consider the whole organization, if we 

 would not confuse entities of different values; and for the parts of 

 such organisms the terms" structural element" or " micro- 

 orgarrism." 



The organization as a whole is, then, of primary importance, not 

 its elements. And . by employing ' ' organism ' ' to mean the 

 " organization as a whole," we are justified in classing " organ- 

 ism" as s3'nonymous with " individual," as defined above, namely, 

 " the largest disassociated whole." It is the organism defined in 

 this sense that is the unit to be treated in phylogenetic classification. 

 It is necessary to be clear upon this point, and not to regard parts 

 of cells, or cells, or tissues, or organs as the primaiy materials to be 

 ti'eated in classification. The organisms or individuals of our 

 classification are then primarily the kind which are mentally 

 grouped imder what we generally understand as " species." And 

 since a species is simply a mental association of similar individuals 

 or organisms, it cannot be perceived ; so that species are uot the 

 materials for classification, but the perceptible individuals or organ- 

 isms which compose them. 



This conclusion as to what are the organic units primarily to be 

 classified is further emphasized when we come to consider at what 

 stage of its life-history the organism should be classified. The 

 organism may be treated at any or all stages of its cycle, in order 

 to understand its structure and growth phenomena ; but it must be 

 determined at what stage it is to be classified, in order to show its 

 phyletic progress. 



Now classification must represent not only similarities of descent, 

 but divergence from the original ancestor: must show how far each 

 organism has progressed in its evolution. The stage at which it is 




198 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [-^1"''' 



to be classified, arranged in the genealogical system, woidd then be 

 that of its perfected condition, for then is to be found its furthest 

 degree of specialization. And to classify it at an earlier stage 

 would be to neglect the full degree of its evolution. This is a 

 conclusion of importance when we consider certain attempts to das- 

 sifj' organisms considered wholly at embryonic and larval stages, 

 as in the so-called " embryological classifications." Xo objection 

 is made to consider organtms at any stage, as an ovum, au embryo, 

 a larva, or au adidt, nor yet to consider a particular organ Ijy itself 

 in any of these stages, for such examination is nece.<saiy for under- 

 standing structure and growth ; but these considerations are prelim- 

 inary to the phyletic classing of the organism, which must be done 

 when it has attained its full development and is most different 

 from other organisms. Organisms at their perfected stages' are 

 then the materials to be classified. 



But it is difficult to determine just what is the perfected or mature 

 stage of an organism. In general the period of re]>roduetion may 

 be said to be the perfected stage. This would especially be the 

 case for many free-living organism.s which die after reproduction, as 

 the males of most insects immediately after co])ulauon. and the 

 females of many after ovipositiou. In these particidar ca.ses the 

 organisms attain their f idlest development at the period of reproduc- 

 tion, and die witliout pa.-^sing through further structural ]ihases. 

 But in other free-living animals there are several periods of genera- 

 tion before the auinud dies; and in some animals, as iu certain 

 birds, the dimensions of the liody and the character of the plumage 

 change with each reproductive period — that is, the size and coliu- 

 changes more or less with each preuuptial moult. And in mam- 

 mals, those whose reproductive period may extend over several 

 years, a gradual change of the whole organism takes place during 

 this time, so that in the stage of its last reproductive period it mav 

 be quite different in its charactei"s from what it was at the first. 

 Also, in species with individuals cajiable of rcpreduction occur some- 

 times individuals with arrested genital organs, such as the worker 

 Hpneuojitera ; for the latter reproductive activity cannot be coii.«id- 

 ered the criterion of structural perfection or maturity. Tlieii. in 

 cases of neotenia, the rei)roductive elements may attain their full 

 growth before the other parts of the liody : the orgauLsni here is 

 reproductively mature before it is s<imatically. Again, at the stage 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 199 



of reproductive activity the organism may be less differentiated 

 structurally than at preceding stages, as in some extreme cases of 

 endoparasitism. Where alternation of generations (metagenesis) 

 occurs, there may be, as iu the case of certain Hydrozoa, two 

 generations, each reproductively active, and the individuals of 

 which are structurally different: which of these is the perfected 

 stage ? And finally, when it is recalled that for certain organisms 

 there is a succession of stages of senility, it will be seen how difB- 

 cult it is to define what is meant by maturity or perfection of 

 organization. 



We have just seen that the period of reproductive activity does 

 not always fix sharply the stage of greatest perfection of the organ- 

 ism. This stage, from the phyletic standpoint, is that when the 

 organism has attained the end of the period which precedes senile 

 modification. This may be the stage of greatest structural differen- 

 tiation of the organism, or it may not. In the case of an extreme 

 parasite, such as certain of the highly degenerated Cirripedes and 

 Copepods, the larval stage may be the most perfect, from the stand- 

 point of general structure, for then the locomotory appendages, 

 sense organs and separateness of the metameres are clearly pro- 

 nounced, while they degenerate later. But, if such a degenerate 

 parasite were classified at its earlier, non-parasitic, more structurally 

 perfect stage, such a classification would not represent the degree in 

 which its evolution has diverged from that of its relatives, and 

 would therefore rank the organism in a more primitive stage than 

 it deserves. It is the end stage which shows how far the individual 

 has proceeded in its evolution, whether progressive or regressive, 

 while classification at an earlier stage, even though then the organ- 

 ism be structurally more complex, would not show the whole path 

 of descent. Maturity, from the phyletic standpoint, is the stage 

 preceding seuUity. It is not my purpose here to define senility, or 

 what characterizes it, and indeed, senility may appear in one part 

 before another has reached its fvill development, and at its first 

 appearance is difheult to detect. But we would say that the organ- 

 ism as a whole is not senile so long as it continues the power of 

 reproduction; and if there are several periods of reproduction, we 

 should not consider the organism to be senile as a whole imtil after 

 the last period. Thus, iu the cases of birds which show successive 

 nuptial plumages and structures, or of mammals which change 




200 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



more or less with each successive period of reproduction (as the 

 male deer which multipl)' the number of prongs upon theii- antlers), 

 it -would be the last period of reproduction at ■which the individual 

 should be classified. In a case of excessive parasitism, many organs 

 of the body may have beeu in degeneration before the time of 

 reproductive activity, yet the organism should not be classified before 

 it is functionally reproductive. And it is correct to consider the 

 organization as a whole as non-senile up to the time of the repro- 

 ductive activity, since nou-senUe powei-s of growth are transmitted 

 to its ova. In cases of complete successive hermapliroditLsm, where 

 the individual is first functionally male, then hermaplirodite, then 

 female (protandry), or -where the succession is the reverse (pro- 

 terogyny), the terminal stage also would be the one at which the 

 indi\'idual should be classified, even though, as in many pulmouate 

 Gasteropods, certain organs have during the reproductive period 

 become degenerate (as the genital organs characteristic of the first 

 functional stage). 



Accordingly, in cases where alternation of generations does not 

 occur, the mature or perfected stage from the phyletic standpoint 

 woidd be found not before the last reproductive j)eriod. Generally 

 it would be at that last period, if not always. For even in the 

 case of neotenia, where the reproductive cells are mature before the 

 somatic structure is fully differentiated, sucli procreative precocity in 

 parasites is evidently oidy an adaptation to accidents inducing a pre- 

 cocious departure from the body of the last host (as in Gordiu^), and 

 as a rule the soma has time to differentiate fully before the reproduc- 

 tive elements are deposited. In mammals, neotc-nia may be said 

 to occur, since considerable somatic differentiation takes place after 

 the first period of reproduction ; but in manunals the ca.se of neo- 

 tenia need not perple.x us, since, as lias been shown, a manmial is 

 to be classified at the time of its la.st reproductive period. The 

 organization as a whole is then non-senile until after the last re])ro- 

 ductive period ; the individual is to be classified at that period, and 

 not before, for classification at a preceding state would not show 

 the fidl extent of its development. Classification after that stage 

 is not permissible, unless for some cases of neotenia, since cest^atiou 

 of reproductive activity denotes the beginning of senility (catalysis 

 of the organization as a whole), and since after such cessation 

 further changes of the organism could not be transmitted to the 

 offspring. 




li)02.] NATURAL SCIEXCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 201 



There remain to be considered the cases of alternation of genera- 

 tions (metagenesis), where the individuals of one generation differ 

 struclurally from those of the next generation, as ui manv Hydro- 

 zoa, where from the polyp is produced a medusa, from the medusa 

 a polyp. Each generation here is reproductively active, so that the 

 state of such activity does not decide for us whether the classification 

 should consider primarilythe polyp or the medusa condition. Now, 

 in the Hydrozoa many variations are found in the cycle of genera- 

 tion. Hydra can produce new polyps asexualJy, by budding, and 

 also by fertilized eggs, i. e. , sexually ; here there is change of gen- 

 eration, but not polymorphism of the successive generations. In 

 certain Hydromedusa; there is true change of generation, with free- 

 swimming medusae budded off from the polyp iadi\idual (" meta- 

 genetic " Hydrozoa); in others the change of generation is not so 

 clearly marked, but the medusoid individuals remain attached to 

 the polyp as medusoid buds or gonophores (Hydrozoa with masked 

 change of generation) ; in still others there is no polyp stage, but 

 a mediLsa develops from the egg, and the latter becomes another 

 medusa (" hypogenetic " forms, with suppression of one genera- 

 tion). Again, while most medusie are incapable of asexual di%'is- 

 ion, and reproduce by ovu and spermatozoa, certain of them repro- 

 duce also asexuaUy, by budding. In the Hydrozoa is found a fund 

 of differences in the degree and kind of generation, such as no 

 other metazoan group evinces (not even the Trematoda), and on 

 this accoimt they furnish a broad field for examination. Now in 

 such Hydrozoa as show no change of generation, the individual 

 shoidd be classified at its last stage of reproductive activity, in 

 order to represent its degree of racial development. Where true 

 change of generation occurs and the different generations are sepa- 

 rated individuals, such individuals should be classified as stand at 

 the end of each metagenetic cycle. This is a consequence of the 

 argument given before, to show that the organization as a whole is 

 most advanced and perfect, and therefore expresses most fidly the 

 phyletic divergence of the organism from its ancestors, at the time 

 of the last period of reproduction. Where the change of genera- 

 tion appears less pronounced, by reason of the egg-producing indi- 

 viduals remaining attached as' gonophores to the body of the polyp, 

 the same conclusion would hold — i. e., that the egg-producing indi- 

 vidual shoidd be the one classified, provided that such a medusoid 




202 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



bud or gonophore be sufficiently specialized in structure from the 

 polyp condition to be regarded as another individual and not merely 

 a jDart or organ of the polyp. For, granting the correctness of the 

 general view that such gonophores represent modified medusae, 

 which at an earlier racial period led an independent, free-swimming 

 existence, they may in extreme cases lose all the original medusoid 

 characters except that of producing eggs, show no independence of 

 the pol}'p stalk, and, in fact, be more correctly considered organs 

 (gonads) of the latter than separate individuals. This would he a 

 case where a part once cut off as a sepai-ate individual with an 

 independent existence has been graduallj' reduced to the state of an 

 organ. In such a case, then, where tlie gonophore shows no inde- 

 pendent existence, but is a jiart of the polyp stalk, the whole 

 organization — i. e., the polyp stalk with its gonophores — should be 

 the one classified, because all together represent one organization. 

 This whole organization should be classified when its reproduc- 

 tive organs, the gonophores, arc in functional activity, that being the 

 l^eriod of the greatest jjerfection of the organism. Tiic <litliculty in 

 putting this principle to practice is to be found in those cases where 

 it is hard to determine whether the egg-producer is to be considered 

 an independent medusa or an organ of the \w\yp stalk. But at 

 present we are considering only the principles of classification : two 

 processes or states which in their extreme conditions are easily 

 sei)arated, are often found in natural phenomena to be connected by 

 gradual steps; this is to be expected in any gradual evolution. 

 Each ease difficult of decision must then be considered in turn. 



The principle, then, in cases of pronounced change of genera- 

 tion, where the successive individuals are structurally different, is 

 to classify the organism at the end stage of each cycle. A cycle is 

 in a sense a circle, without beginning or end; yet a little thought 

 convinces that there nnist have been a commencement to every cycle. 

 In the case of a Metazoan, where from the egg develops the mature 

 organism, and from that an egg again, we comnu>nly speak of the 

 mature organism as the end and the egg as the beginning; and with 

 right, since develojiment is from the more generalized to the more 

 specialized. Or regarding only tlie germ-cells of a Meta/x)au, 

 apart from the soma, we find also a cycle: n generations of ovo- 

 gonia, a stage of sj'uapsis of the chromosome*, a stage of matura- 

 tion, a stage of conjugation ^fertilization"), all constituting one 




l'J02.] XATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 203 



cycle, which is followed by another like it. This germinal 

 cycle too mast have had a commencement, and, as I have attemp- 

 ted to show elsewhere, the period of fertilization (conjugatiou 

 of ovum and spermatozoon) is to be considered the starting point. 

 In the case of change of generation for the particular objects 

 under examination, the Hydrozoa, the polyp stage Ls generally 

 regarded as the beginning, and the meda-a as the end of the 

 cycle. This has its justification, for the mediusa is more complex 

 in structure than the polyp, that is, has passed through a longer 

 ontogenetic stage. Here, too, however, the cycle really begins with 

 the fertilized ovum, an<l ends with the stage that produces ova, if 

 we would draw a parallel to the germinal cycle of Metazoa. In the 

 metagenetic Hydrozoa it is the medusa which produces the ova. If, 

 on the other hand, greatest complexity of structure shoidd uot coin- 

 cide with the end of the reproductive cycle, such complexity would 

 of course uot be- a criterion of this stage of the cycle, which never- 

 theless should be the one classified. Such a case woidd be an 

 organism with change of generation, but with a regressive develop- 

 ment in the latter jiart of its ontogeny (as might be induced by 

 parasitism), so that the terminal stage woidd be less complex than 

 some preceding one. No such case is known, how'ever; so that with 

 the facts at hand we are justified in concluding that greatest com- 

 plexity of structure is the test of the last stage of the cycle in alter- 

 nating generations; and it is that last stage which is the one to be 

 classified. 



IV. The Classification of Polymorphic Individuals. 



In the preceding section have been considered such polymorphic 

 individuals as succeed each other in alternation of generations In 

 many species are found together in the same generation individuals 

 which differ from each other, as either in sexual dimorphism or in 

 polymorphism. The former shows the distinction singly of males 

 and females, and is found in dioecious species ; while the latter shows 

 the males and females in several different forms (as the polymorphic 

 Hymenoptera). Polymorphism also may show in the same species 

 a distinction of sexual from asexual individuals, as in certain corms. 

 Sexual dimorphism and polymorphism are the results of a division 

 of labor between the individuals of a species, as the structural 

 differences in the parts of one organization are due to a similar 




204 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OK [April, 



specialization between them ; in the one case the units are indi- 

 viduals, having physical disconnection, while in the other they are 

 not individuals, but parts of one whole. In the former they com- 

 pose not a perceptible but a thinkable whole, which we term a 

 species. 



The question is, accordingly, where the individuals of a sjiecies 

 are heteromorphic, on which of them should the classification be 

 ba-sed ? On the males or on the females, on the sexual or the 

 asexual individuals ? Our classification must start with the single 

 individual, and proceed next to an arrangement of the individuals 

 into those lowest groups known as species. If all the individuals of 

 a given generation of a si)ecies are monomorphic, the consideration 

 need not pass beyond any one individual, fm- each indiA-idual would 

 show the full cliaracteristics of the species. And since this is not 

 the ca.se in species in which the individuals are heteromorphic, in 

 such species all the component individuals must be studied before 

 the species can be •mentally defined. In other words, while indi- 

 viduals arc the primary materials of classification, species arc the 

 prunary group units and .so must bo defined as to include all the 

 kinds of individuals compusing them. 



(Starting tlien with the principle that individuals are to be fir.<t 

 considered, and that a classification of the most primary groups — 

 i. e. , species — demands a knowledge of all the indi\-iduals which 

 compose such species, we nnist not in classification neglect the con- 

 sideration cif any individual. Therefore classification must be ba.sed 

 upon all individuals, since otherwise our concepts of the lowe.<t 

 group would lie incomplete. 



To the systematist are known many instances of species with 

 sexual dimorphism, where the indivi<hials of one sex are le.ss varia- 

 ble than those of the otiicr with regard to closely related six-cies. 

 Thus among the insects, the females of Disptera are, as a rule, 

 ditficidt to distinguish specifically, while in the le.<s conserv.'itive 

 males specific characters arc much more clearly pronounced, and 

 in this particular case much of the classification has been based 

 upf)n the genital armature of the male.' In birds also the male.* 

 generally show greater differences than the females; this is observed 



*If llie genital armature of the female, which is to greater or less 

 extent adapted to that of tlic male, be examined more Ihoronglily tliau 

 it has at present, perhaps it, too, would afford good specific distinctions. 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 205 



also in many mammals, as the Cervidaj, in the Gordiacea, and in 

 numerous other groups. But while a description of a new species 

 is in practice often based upon individuals of one sex, in cases 

 where those of the other .<ex have not been. seen, yet such a descrip- 

 tion is only a partial characterization of the species, for the comple- 

 mental individuals have been neglected ; it is not, .strictly speaking, 

 a description of a species, but of only one kind of individuals of 

 that species. Now, let us consider two species, A and B, each with 

 sexual dimorphism, the females of the two not appreciably different, 

 while the males show marked differences. Then on comparison of 

 the females alone, one would conclude that they composed only one 

 species; of the males alone, that they composed two perfectly dis- 

 tinct species. The error of basing the characterization upon either 

 sex by itself is then obvious, for A and B are neither one species, 

 nor are they cfear^y distinguishable species ; the similarities of the 

 females of the two show that the .=pecies are very closely related, 

 while the differences of the males show that they are nevertheless 

 distinct. The species would then be characterized, " females indis- 

 tinguishable, males differing in such and such charactei-s."' 



This reasoning, ba.sed upon cases where neither sex is markedly 

 degenerate, may be, to a certain extent, a guide also for such cases 

 where either the male or the female is degenerate in comparison with 

 the other sex. Such ca.ses are numerous, as tlie degenerate charac- 

 ter of the male in the Rotatoria, in the Echiurid Bonellia, the 

 marked sexual dimorphism in the Coccidse and some parasitic 

 Copepoda, etc. If in these the classification were based upon the 

 more degenerate individuals, the species would be ascribed too low 

 a phyletic rank, and if upon the less degenerate alone, too high a 

 rank. For here, as for the other cases, the characterization of a 

 species must be the sum total of the characterization of its differ- 

 ent individuals. In such a species the male and the female may 

 have had a corresponding ontogenetic development up to a certain 

 point, then the one developed regressively and the other progres- 

 sively, a difierence in mode of life being the determining factor 



* In the particular case used for discussion we liave excluded the pos- 

 sibility of the occurrence of two kinds of males complemental to a single 

 kind of female, i. e., dimorphism of the males. When females appear 

 indistmguishable, however, after a thorough stud}^ of all their parts, 

 while the males are easily distinguished, the classifier should disprove 

 that it is not a case of male dimorphism before he founds two species. 




206 PROCEEDIXGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



(as it probably is iu most cases of sexual dimorphism iu the lower 

 auimals). If both sexes had a parallel ontogenetic development, 

 we should not hesitate to classify the iudi\'iduals at the terminal 

 stage of their reproductive activity, whether the development had 

 been progressive throughout or in part regressive. When there has 

 been a divergence in the ontogeny of the two sexes, the males and 

 females being complemental individuals, the species contains both 

 progressive and regressive individuals, it is to be classified at the 

 time of reproductive acti\'ity of the two sexes, and is to be ascribed 

 a rank intermediate between that of the conditions of the two sexes. 



Unless thL< principle of considering all the kinds of individuals iu 

 a species be strictly enforced, great confusion would eusue in the 

 ranking of a species, depending as to whether the classifier con- 

 sidered the malas alone or the females alone, or asexual individuals 

 alone, or all together. It is necessary that all the individuals of a 

 species be known before such a species can be thoroughly character- 

 ized, and for only a comparatively few species of certain animal 

 groups have such broad definitions been given. 



It will of coui"se be imdorstood that the writer does not imply that 

 species would be perceptibly delimitable, were it not for the extinc- 

 tion of or our lack of knowledge concerning intermediate species. 

 " Species" is a mental concept for a primary group of individuals 

 of the closest genetic connection. If in any i)hyletic series we could 

 know to-day all intermediate stages, so tluit the whole would hv a 

 continuous line of development, au<l assuming that such a develop- 

 ment were perfectly gradual, nevertheless we should have to project 

 the concepts of species into that whole, arbitrary though such con- 

 cepts would be, ill order to .«ccure certain fixed points for observation 

 and interpretation. Thus we study a section through the body of 

 an animal if we cannot undei'stand this animal in its entirety, and 

 by supplementing our knowledge with sections from other i-egions of 

 the body gradually reconstruct the whole. A spj^ies is a mental 

 section of a line of evolution, and is necessary to enable us to inter- 

 pret the whole. That is what is here understood by the determina- 

 tion of a species. Where, through extinction, we find disconnected 

 species, we have sections made for us by Nature. 



V. The Kinds of Homolooies. 

 Before considering the methods of treatment of stnictural char- 

 acters, and comparing the anatomical and embr\-ological methods of 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 207 



determiniug genetic relatiouships, it will be well to discuss briefly 

 the kinds of structural relations known as ' ' homologies. ' ' 



The working principle of the phylogenist who is studying a line 

 of development represented to-day only by fragments, and who has 

 not the resource of fossil remains of the extinct members of tliat 

 line, is that similarity in essential particulars denotes genetic affin- 

 ity. This principle would seem the more probable the more com- 

 plex the organisms treated, for it would not be probable that two 

 complex forms from very different beginnings could come to resem- 

 ble each other in all particulars. The less complex and more 

 plastic the organization, the more comj)lete coidd be the convergence 

 of structure. This principle is a necessary postulate, and though it 

 remains to be thoroughly proved, yet it is allowable so long as the 

 known facts do not contradict it. Without its aid no phylogeuetic 

 conclusions would be possible. 



There have been distinguished various kinds and degrees of 

 structural similarities or homologies. Owen, in his Lectures on 

 Vertebrata, 1846, defines: " Analogiie, a part or organ in one 

 animal which has the same function as another part or organ in a 

 different animal. Homologue, the same organ in different animals 

 under every variety of form and function." This distinction, 

 generally accepted to-day, terms "analogical" a similarity of 

 function, and " homological " a similarity of structure. He distin- 

 guishes further three kinds of homological relations. Special 

 homology, " correspondency of a part or organ, determined by its 

 relative position and connections, with a part or organ in a different 

 animal ; the determination of which homology indicates that such 

 animals are constructed on a common type." General homology, 

 " a higher relation of homology .... in which a part or series of 



parts stands to the fundamental or general type ThiLs when 



the basilar process of the human occipital bone is determined to be 

 the ' centrum ' or ' body ' of the last cranial vertebra. ' ' Serial 

 homology or homotypy, the relation of segmeutally arranged parts of 

 the same organism. " In the instance of serial homology .... 

 the femur, though repeating in its segment the humerus in the more 

 advanced segment, is not its namesake — not properly, therefore, its 

 ' homologue.' I propose, therefore, to call the bones so related 

 serially in the same skeleton ' homotypes' and to restrict the term 




208 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



'homologue ' to the correspoudiuc: bones in different specie.*.* And 

 in his paper On the Archetype and Homologies of the Veiiebrate 

 Skeleton, in 1848, he states: " Homological relationships .... 

 are mainly, if not wholly, determined by the relative position and 

 connection of the parts, and may exist independently of form, 

 proportion, substance, function and similarity of development." 



Owen implied by ' ' homology ' ' an essential agreement in sti'uc- 

 ture and connections, a relation of es,seutial .structural agreement. 

 But, a.s Cu\'ier before and L. Agassiz after him, he held the vnew of 

 the occurrence of different plans or types of structure among ani- 

 mals which could not intergrade and were not gradually evolved. 

 Under the present dominance of the theory of de.«cent, the idea of 

 separately created " tji^es " or " plans " has been relinquished, so 

 that while we retain the term " homology," we define it as a rela- 

 tion of genetic descent. 



Of the kinds of homologies distinguished by Owen, the general 

 and serial homologies are of not the same direct value to the phylo- 

 genist as the special. Eelations of two side.s of the same body to 

 each other, of anterior to ])osterior end, of one antimerc or meta- 

 mere to another, of the right arm to the left arm, or of an arm to 

 a leg, etc., are all relations between the parts of one organism. In 

 phylogeny we arc immediately concenied with the relations of differ- 

 ent organisms, and with general homologies, including under that 

 term also serial homologies, onlj^ in so far as they ser\'e to explain 

 the former. Witli the treatment of structural cliaracters we shall 

 have to consider general homologies, and now simply mention .s<jnie 

 kinds of special homologies. 



Under the idea of " special homology " is now generally under- 

 stood a relation of genetic affinity. " Homologie nennen wir eine 

 Uebereinstimmung, die auf gemeinisamer Abstammung der betreffen- 

 deu Orgiinismen bernht. Der Ausdruck Homologie wird demnach 

 vollkommen iin Sinnc der Homophylie gebraucht. "" And so we 

 must employ it, with the working theory of " unity of develop- 

 ment " in the place of the earlier " unity of plan." In order to 

 undcrstaiKl the relations of two organisms as whole.s, it is generally 

 first neces.sary to commence by comparing them j)art by part ; the 



' Vicq d' Azyr was the first recognizer of serial homology : Paraltile 

 dcB 0$ qui compost nt les eztremites, Mdm. Acad. 8ci., 1774. 

 ' Ilatscliek, Lehrbueh, 18S.S. 




1902.] NATUKAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 209 



correspondence of one part" [io organism A witli a similar part in 

 organism B is a special homology, when interpreted as a proof of 

 genetic affinity. A special homology is then our interpretation of 

 the similarity of the parts of two organisms as denoting homophyly, 

 or likeness of genesis. 



Various degrees of special homologies have been distinguished. 

 Thus Gegenbaur:^ complete homology, when the organ in position 

 and connection is retained imaltered ; defective, when a part origin- 

 ally present has been lost ; augmentative, when a part not originally 

 present is added ; imitaiory, as when one metamere produces a struc- 

 ture characteristic of a metamere further anterior or posterior (the 

 three last being classed by Gegenbaur as incomplete homologies). 

 Frequently also the distinction is made between adult and embryonic 

 (or larval) homologies, a distinction based upon the stage of the 

 individual in which the homology is determined. Another grouping 

 of homologies, due mainly to the study of cell lineage, is actual 

 homology, when at the stage considered the relation is found ; pros- 

 pective, as when two blastomeres (of different organisms) are con- 

 sidered homologous because they give rise to similar organs in the 

 adults; and retrospective, as when two adult parts (of different 

 organisms) are considered homologous because they are derived from 

 corresponding cells or regions of the embryos (or larv£e) of these 

 organisms. Still further classifications of homologies are possible, 

 but these are sufficient for our present purpose. 



Under the idea of ' ' homology ' ' we shall then understand 

 " homophyly," and restrict in what is to follow the term " homol- 

 ogy " to the idea of " special homology," unless otherwise specified. 

 In the determination of homologies we may proceed with the adult 

 structure (the anatomical method), or with the embryonic or larval 

 structure (the embryological method). And we shall have to 

 decide, if possible and without bias, which of these methods is the 

 correct one : the one of Owen which lays stress upon the adult rela- 

 tions of structure, or the one which lays primary importance upon 

 ontogenetic similarities, and has been defined by Darwin" as follows : 

 " Homology. — That relation between parts which results from their 

 development from corresponding embryonic parts, either in different 

 animals .... or in the same individual." 



' Vergleichende Anatomie der Wirhelthiere, I, 1898. 

 ' Origin of Species, Glossary 



14 




210 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



YI. Structural Characters, and the Determination" of 



THEIR KeLATIVE VaLUES FOR PhYLOGENETIC CLASSIFICATION. 



The confliction of the judgments of differeut morphologists iu regard 

 to lines of evolution is due to tlie differences in tlieir opinions as to 

 what structural characters should be ased as the basis of compari- 

 son. If there were some well-founded principle iu determining the 

 relative values for phylogeny of such characters, the number of 

 points of view would be lessened and greater agreement thereby 

 attained. But, as the case stands to-day, with each new point of 

 view ideas of phylogenetic relationships are clianged ; and since iu 

 those whose standjioiuts have liecouie fixed tlicre is no adoption of 

 the new points of view, tlie latter simply bring in additional 

 schemes of cla.ssification, and will continue to do .=o until all pos.*ible 

 points of view are exhausted. This oncoming of new interpreta- 

 tions is of the highest value in the study of morphology, and he sees 

 best wlio can, unbias.scd, consider facts under many standpoints. 

 A new interpretation is a light strong iu proportion as it is main- 

 tained by the facts. Yet too often the conclusion is reached before 

 the thinker has taken time to consider the objections — before he ha.s 

 sought to prove his conclusion by first trying to disprove it. There 

 is iu every worker more or less of a teudency to defend his point of 

 view and to be slow in relinquishiug it; and tliis is good for the 

 clear expression of the jwiut of view, but bad for the thinker and 

 his science when he continues to abide by it after it has Iteen dis- 

 proved. Eacli new jioiut of view is to bo welcomed, since we 

 cannot say wliich one is right until all have been examined, pro- 

 vided that it has not been hastily conceived. 



In the following we shall endeavor to express certain ]>rinciples in 

 the search for homologie,-*, and to determine the general method in 

 the searcli for them ; bearing iu mind that it is simijly an attempt 

 to reduce the confliction of opinion, rather than au essay of a new 

 point of view. 



(a) The Orgamzatlon and its Components. 



In Section III it has been shown that the organism is not a colony 

 of relatively inde]>endent units, but is one whole containing pai-ts; 

 and that the whole gives its imprcss to the j)arts, rather than tiie 

 jjarts to the whole. And then it was shown that an " organism " 

 and au " oi-gauization," both terms being employed iu the broad 

 sense, arc svnonvmous. 




1902.] NATURAL SCIE.NUES OF PHILADELPHIA. 211 



The organizatiou being tlieu one closelv united whole, we reach 

 he principle that the organization as a whole must be studie.l • •nul 

 hence that any scheme of classification based upon one kind of 

 organs alone is erroneous in its method. >» The truth of this is fur- 

 ther borne out by the following reasoning: The organization beino- 

 one closely connected whole, there is a perfect physiological and moi" 

 phological coiTelation of its parts; and although so.ne^of them have 

 a greater value to the whole economy than othei^, vet each part i< 

 dependent upon the others. The parts are not individuals in the 

 sense m which the individual has been defined (Section II) ,ince 

 they are normally incapal,le of separate existence." AVheu we sav 

 " a g^and cell of the intestine of a snail," we s,K.ak in succession of 

 a part of a larger part of a whole. Not onh- from plivsiolo^^ical 

 facts doas this correlation become apparent Inn from moipholo^ical 

 as well, for none of the parts show sharp demarkations. A vertebra 

 of an adult mammal might be considered at first as a weU eircum 

 scribed part; yet besides being one of a series of vertebra,, all 

 developed from one anlage, its fibroas sheath pa.^ses over craduallv 

 mto the tendons of the muscles attached to it, and its nerves and 

 Wood vessels are mere portions of the nervous and vascular svstems 

 of the whole organization. Similarly with a limb, a sense-or'o-an -, 

 lung, etc. For none of the parts of the whole organizatio^ Ja^ 

 .harp boundaries be found; even the cells are either connected by a 

 fusion of their contiguous membranes or processes, or bv a common 

 intercellular substance. " 



The parts of the organization are then not individuals, since 

 between all the parts exists the closest correlation ; and the " arges 

 disconnected whole" is the organism of phvWenv. Pm-ther no 

 part can be tmderstood alone by itself, but the plac^e which it occu- 

 pies in the whole organizatiou must be considered 

 _It_i^ot to be wondered at that the parts of organisms are not 



structural characters of one WgIonS-Sulf'"""P'^' "^^"'''""S to n/e 




212 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



easily delimited, since tliey are but local specializations of a whole. 

 And the relative kinds of parts intergrade, so that it is purely 

 arbitrary to distinguish, e. (j., between organ and organ system, 

 between metarnere and region, etc. Though it is necessary to give 

 distinctiue names to particular parts, for purposes of description, 

 it must be kept in mind that the parts or " organs " in being not 

 sharply delimitable are purely arbitrary distinctions. Thus, an 

 ' ' organ ' ' is more of a concept than an organism, since it is not so 

 perceptibly delimitable; though less of a concept than a species, 

 since the connection of its components is percei)tiblc. 



In one organization we find the general body plan, the major 

 parts which comjiose this, and the minor parts which compose the 

 latter. In a radiate body plan, as shown by a star-fish, the body is 

 com])osed on the principle of converging rays, tlie antimeres; each 

 of the latter is bilaterally symmetrical, with a distinction between 

 dorsal and ventral, and contains a series of ' ' organs ' ' ; and each 

 of these organs has its minor parts. In a trematode there is a 

 bilaterally symmetrical body plan, without antimeres; in an 

 annelid, a bilaterally symmetrical united with a metameric, the 

 larger parts being liere the segments or metameres. Other body 

 plans are the monaxonic, where there is more or less strictly radial 

 grouping of the parts along one long axis; and the homaxouic, very 

 rarely foimd, where all the axes passing through the central point 

 are of equal length. But still other distinctions of body plans are 

 possible. Thus : that in which the two ends of the body are dissimi- 

 larly developed, as head and tail, which might i)e known as the 

 antipolar; where the body axis is straight and where it is bent, 

 (Homaxonic and Hcteraxonic, Hatschek); and various others which 

 may be arbitrarily distinguished. Therefore tiicrc are many kinds 

 of general body plans.'' Of tlie major comironents of these body 

 plans wo may distinguish antimerc and metamcrc, anterior and jws- 

 terior, right and loft, dorsal and ventral, etc. The major com[H)- 

 nents of the latter are wiiat are generally called " organs," such as 



"Though we use here the term body plan, we cannot any lonecr 

 restrict its use to that of Cuvier, von Haer, and L. Afiassiz ; the four 

 fundamental body plans distinguished by those naturalists represented 

 to them four separate. /i«<» of creation, which were unbridireuble. In the 

 light of modern Phylogeny wo know that animals were not created separ- 

 ately in four separate moults, and know that gradations are found between 

 the "different body "plans" or "types." 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 21.3 



nephridia, uerve cords, gonads, gills, etc. " There are finally parts 

 of these organs. 



Now we find from this brief examination that there are different 

 degrees of structural parts in the organization, beginning with the 

 general body plan and proceeding to the minor parts which compose 

 it. Shall the relationship of two organisms be determined by the 

 comparison of their body plans, or of their major organ complexes, 

 or of the smallest complexes ? And how is this comparison to be 

 carried out, and on what kind of parts is the comparison to be 

 instituted ? We may immediately proceed to the discussion of these 

 questions. 



(b) The Criterion of Morphological Value. 



It is not justifiable to give any a priori decision as to what parts 

 are of value in determining questions of relationship, since the 

 criterion must be empirically sought. 



As essential similarity is interpreted as denoting genetic affinity, 

 so also there is a second principle in determining phylogeuy, namely, 

 that conservatism or fixity of a structure implie-s morphological 

 value. By conservatism or fixity is implied the continuance of a 

 part with relatively little change through a long line of evolution. 

 If in a line of evolution leading from a tji^e of organization ^ to a 

 type N, a certain structure should be found in N little changed from 

 its appearance in A, it would be called conservative; if it had 

 become much modified or even lost before the stage of type iV, it 

 would not be conservative. The value of a structural characteristic 

 for phylogenetic purposes depends directly upon how fully it cou- 

 sers'es ancestral characteristics, and the less completely it consen-es 

 them the less value it has. This is the well-based working proce- 



i« "Organ " is employed in comparative anatomy in a very loose sense, 

 as is necessitated by the practical impossibility of "sharply distinguishing 

 the intergradiug kinds of structural elements. As generally used for the 

 Metazoa, it is not applied to an antimere or to a metamere, but to more 

 segregated portions of them. Physiologically, it is a part with a partic- 

 ular function to perform ; morpho'logically, a specialized part of partic- 

 ular structure. TVhile no sharp definition is possible to cover all cases, we 

 find that "organ " is generally employed hx phylogcnists in the sense 

 of "the largest specialTzed part in an organization performing a particu- 

 lar function"; thus the respiratory organ of a vertebrate would be not 

 a lung cell, but the whole complex of lung cells. And it is well to 

 define the various degrees of structural parts as closely as possible, in 

 order to compare in^'ditterent animals only such parts as relatively 

 correspond. 




214 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEJIY OF [April, 



dure of tho phylogenist. A eharactcr which leads far back into the 

 ancestry is the guiding line in interpretation of descent. If, 

 through tlie continuous change which a race of organisms undergoes 

 during ihe process of evolution, a particular part becomes much less 

 rapidly changed than the othere, that part certainly represents the 

 ancestral character most fully, and for the phylogenist its persis- 

 tcucc or conservatism is the criterion of its morphological value. A 

 character which persists through a very long racial period miust do 

 so by \'irtue of being of particular value for the economy of the 

 organization, or for the perpetuation of the race. Structures of 

 less value are more readily modified, or substituted, or even lost. 



It is then clear that the first step to take in determining the char- 

 actei"s on Avhich classification should be based, is to find out the rela- 

 tive stability or conservatism of these cliaracters, at the same lime 

 recalling that no characters should be neglected in the examination, 

 but that they be ascribed value in the order of their conservatism. 



The ever-recurring problem to the classifier is that of determin- 

 ing the uiterrclationships of, e. g. , these organisms, A , B and C, 

 when A agrees with B in character d, but differs from B in charac- 

 ter e, while agreeing with C in character c but differing from C in 

 character d: is the value of character d of greater or less value 

 here than that of character e f The answer may be a purely arbi- 

 trary one, such as would best suit the classifier's preconceived views; 

 or it may be made less arbitrary and more logically precise by the 

 application of the principle of conservatism as denoting value. 



The application of this principle would seem at fii"st sight very 

 simple, but in practice it has been found very difficvdt. For in a 

 racial progress, as Kleincnberg has shown so well for tlie individual 

 development, one organ may become gradually substitute<l for 

 another, so that it is difficult to decide at what jwint the first 

 disa|)pears and the second takes its place. A ca.«e in point is the 

 substitution of one kidney system for an earlier one, and of a third 

 for the second, in the evolution of the Vertebrates. In this case 

 a jH'i-sistencc of the first kidney (pronejihros) is found even when 

 the second kidney (mesonephros) has been substituted in its place, 

 and even in the orgivnizatiou showing the substituting thinl kidney 

 (mefancphros) a small jtortion of tlie first is still retained. The 

 case becomes more <li/ticult to interpret when not separately arising 

 parts succeeil each other, but when in the progress of the race 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 215 



from an early ancestral organ of diffuse arrangement one part 

 changes into one set of organs, another part into another set. Thus 

 from the gastrovascular system of a simpler Cnidarian with, e. g., 

 a structure like Hydra, are found in higher forms developing intes- 

 tine and gonads (e. r/., Turbellaria). In all such cases where the 

 substitution of parts is gradual, it is obviously difficult to determine 

 where one organ ends and another begins, and hence to determine 

 how far back into the phylogeny an organ extends. And the sub- 

 stitution is generally gradual, so that the new organ either arises 

 from a part of the first, or the first becomes gradually moulded over 

 to form the new; much more rarely is the first completely lost 

 (ontogenetic development of the Diptera). It is not probable that 

 a part in any case is completely lost without first aiding in the forma- 

 tion of another part ; and this is the more true when we consider 

 that accidental mutilations are probably not inherited. And further, 

 it must be borne in mind that a character which is essentially cou- 

 sei-vative throughout one group may be variable in another : thus 

 the external cuticle is comparatively uniform in structure throughout 

 the Nematoda, but very variable in the Gordiacea (in some species 

 of which it differs even in the two sexes). 



A word may be said just here as to the value for classification of 

 the statistical study of individual variation. The examination of 

 the relative amount of variation in different parts of the same 

 species shows of course which are most and least variable. It shows 

 also that in some species there is less general variation than 

 in others. The modern school of statistical variation has not 

 brought to light any new points of view, but it has the advan- 

 tage of deriving its statistics from a large number of individ- 

 uals, and of reproducing these statistics in concise mathematical 

 forms. Before its oncoming observers contented themselves with 

 such loose expressions as ' ' very variable " " slightly variable, ' ' 

 etc. The accurate recording of individual variations is the scien- 

 tific method of showing which parts are most conservative, and a 

 character (e. g., number of joints in an antenna) which has been 

 shown to be very variable cannot be regarded as of much value ; 

 that is to say, such a character should be considered of little value 

 in the diagnosis of the species. Yet in closely related species such 

 a character may be eminently stable, so that in general no deduc- 

 tions can be drawn from these variation statistics to species other 




216 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



thau those on which they were determined ; they may be interpreted 

 to show the mathematically probable further course of development 

 of this species, but they do not show anything with regard to other 

 species. 



In one way this statistical study of variation may be of gi-eat 

 service, namely, in regard to the distinguishing of ' ' varieties ' ' or 

 ' ' races " of a species. If the degree of variation between the 

 indiAaduals in one and the same portion of the area of distribution 

 of a sjjecies be fully as great as the degree of variation between 

 the individuals at the most separated points of this area of distribu- 

 tion, then it is not permissible to speak of " varieties" within such 

 a species. Or, conversely, it is only allowable to distinguish 

 " varieties," when in a portion A of the geographical area of a 

 species the individuals show a different average of vai-iatiou thau 

 iu a portion B. 



Daveujiort'^ has pointed out that the plotting of variation curves 

 affords a criterion by whicli varieties may be distinguished from 

 sj)ecies, thus determining the indices of divergence — " if cither of 

 these indices is less thau a certain number we have varieties ; if 

 above that number, sjiecies." But even with this method it is 

 necessary to select a particular character as the " chief differ- 

 ential," and it is just with regard to this jjoLnt that there is as yet 

 no mathematical precision, and hence thb method does not furnish 

 a " precise criteriou," though it is certainly a .step in the right 

 direction. 



(c) The ComponenU of the Organization that are of Most 

 Importance in Phxjlogemj. 



We have seen that the organization as a whole nuist ))e considered. 

 The whole, however, can be understood only In- synthetically con- 

 sidering the parts of which it is compo.sed. These part.* are of very 

 different relative values, from the protoplasmic alveoli or microsome 

 on the one hand, to the organ, organ system and general body 

 plan, on the other. This leads us to the question, wliich categorj- of 

 parts should be considered in determining piiyletic relationship ? 

 Is it immaterial whether we ba.se the classification upon cell structure, 

 upon tissue structure, upon organ .-iructure, or uik>u arrangement of 

 the organs ? Or are there good rea,«ons for using as the bat is of 

 examination a particular category of parts ? 



15 .'j^ Precise Criterion of Species,'' Science, N. S. VII, "So. 177, 1898. 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 217 



To commence with llie smallest perceptible parts of the organiza- 

 tion, the components of the cell. A classiticatiou limited fo these 

 would represent the facts of cellular structure, and might be 

 based upon the finer cytoplasmic structure, upon the number and 

 nature of centrosomes or chromosomes, etc. But it is clear that 

 such a classification, even if it could be consequently perfected, 

 would be no classification of the organization as a whole, for it 

 would neglect the structure and grouping of the more complex 

 parts of the body. In thus affording no representation of the 

 whole organization, it would be contrary to the conclusion that thd 

 organization (organism) as a whole mast be considered, and hence 

 woidd not be allowable.'" The same argument holds also for a 

 classification based upon kinds of tissues. These two possible 

 modes of classification need not confuse the phylogenist, for they 

 are logically incorrect. 



There now arises the more difficult question. What particular 

 category of the more complex parts of the organization should be 

 considered ? Under these are the organs (as this term is generally 

 used), the organ systems and the larger divisions of the body, such 

 as antimeres, metameres, right and left side, etc. These being the 

 larger structural complexes, their facts of structure show the organi- 

 zation as a whole, and hence on them the classification must be 

 made. But should the facts of body plan, such as radiality or 

 metamerism, be ascribed greater value than the facts of the organs 

 which compose them ? Or otherwise expressed, is structure or 

 arrangement of the parts to be first considered ? The answer to 

 this must be empirically determined, and by determining which of 

 the two is the more conservative, the structure of the organ or its 

 spatial relations in the whole organization. 



A little reflection upon the facts of comparative anatomy shows 

 that " body plan " is generally very far from conservative. For, 

 in the first place, different body plans or modes of arrangement of 

 the parts are frequently found in different parts of the same organ- 

 ism. Thus in some Cestoda the scolex is more or less radial with 

 regard to the arrangement of its parts, while each proglottid of the 

 trunk may be bilaterally symmetrical (^Dipylidiimi) . In the 



f " Necessarily the Metazoa only are meant, for with the Protozoa there 

 can be no other than a celhilar classification ; yet. even in these, the 

 orsanization as a whole must be cousidered. 




218 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



Ediiiiodermata there is a geueral radiate plau of the larger parts 

 (autimeres;, but each antimere may be bilaterally symmetrical, 

 and the iutestiue, imlike the other organs, is not rayed. In the 

 Antliozoa there is at once bilateral symmetry and radiality. In the 

 Turbellaria are forms, which, in respect to the intestinal branches, 

 are more or less clearly radial, and at the same time, with regard 

 to the excretory and genital systems, more or less bilaterally sym- 

 metrical ; and the Trematoda have a radial arrangement of certain 

 organs, an unpaired (monaxomc) and bilaterally symmetrical 

 arrangement of others. The metamerism of the Articulata does 

 not extend to the intestine ; and in the Gasteropoda a true bilateral 

 symmetry may be found in the parts enclosed witliin the foot, while 

 such symmetry is to great extent obliterated in the spirally \^ound 

 superior portion of the body. There is, in fact, no animal known 

 in which all the parts are perfectly bilaterally spnmetrical, or all 

 perfectly metameric, and only in certain Cuidaria does there seem 

 to be perfect radial symmetry. " The facts being so, we are not 

 justified in considering as of much value the plan of arrangement 

 (if the parts, or what is known as the " body plau." And an- 

 other well-known illustration beai-s this out. Throughout the group 

 of the Platodes (comprising the Turbellaria, Cestoda and Trema- 

 toda) there is a uniform type of excretory organs ( protoncphridia) ; 

 but the external opening oi these organs may be very differontly 

 situated in different organisms, and in closely relatetl forms (of the 

 Trematoda) these organs may be paired or unpaircil. 



There is a further series of facts to show that the relative posi- 

 tions of parts may be very different in closely related organisms ; 

 thus, the mouth opening and the genital apertures in the Turl>el- 

 laria ; the mouth opening sometimes on the right, sometimes on 

 the left side in the Gasteropoda (even in different inrlividuals of 

 the same species) ; the position of the abdominal neiTe ganglia in 

 the Diptera, etc. 



Such facts, which any comparative anatomist can multiply, show 

 that the general plau of arrangement of the parts is usually far 

 from conservative, and hence, judged by the criterion oi degree of 

 conservatism, is of little value for determining broader phyletic 



" Many of the Protozoa which were first regarded as of a perfect radial 

 type, have more recently been shown to be asymmetrical in some 

 respects. 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 219 



relationships. The bod}- plan is easOy influenced by the mode of 

 life, as demonstrated by Lang and others; Lang has shown that 

 radiality and sessility are often associated, a creeping motion 

 and bilateral symmetry. Perhaps such a relation would be better 

 expressed in the statement: the position of the mouth opening is 

 determined by the mode of life, and the relative arrangements of 

 the other parts become modified by change in its position. And 

 there is another relation, also referable to the mode of life, namely, 

 modifications of the arrangements of parts caused by the develop- 

 ment of firm skeletal structures, as the shell in the Mollusca. 



In general, then, we may conclude that the modes of arrangement 

 of the parts of the organization, which are known as radial and 

 bilateral symmetry, the relation of dorsum to venter, etc., are 

 characters of small degree of conservatism. But it is diflicult to 

 decide on the morphological value of metameric arrangement. For 

 metamerism cannot be explained, as other modes of arrangement 

 mav be more or less satisfactorily, by the mode of life, but would 

 rather appear to be referable to inti"insic growth methods ; and it 

 also does not become readily changed by variation in mode of life. 

 Metamerism is also in no way a function of comparative size or 

 length of the body, but would seem to be the consequence of 

 primarilv the mode of formation of the mesoderm (E. Meyer). 

 IMetamerism is more conservative than other body plans, and so 

 must be given a greater value in classification. Thus the group of 

 the Articulata is much better founded than the earlier postulated 

 group of the Radiata, for it is based upon a more conservative 

 mode of arrangement of the parts. And as generally lield, meta- 

 merism of the inner parts is of nmch more morphological value 

 than melamerism of the tegumentary structures, on account of the 

 greater conservatism of the former. 



The parts of the organization which furnish the best basis for 

 classification are the organs, as this term is generally used. These 

 parts may not reflect so fully the organization as a whole as do 

 larger parts which they compose, such as antimere, metamere, 

 right and left sides, head and trunk, etc. ; but comparative 

 anatomy has shown that they are, on the whole, more conservative, 

 and on this account they are to be preferred. Their study, unlike 

 study of cell or tissue components, gives a synthetic view of the 

 whole organization. 




220 PEOCEEDIXGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



The pliylogenist has then to iise what are generally called 

 ' ' organs ' ' as the basis of his comparisons. And he has lo deter- 

 mine by comparison which of the organs are the most conservative, 

 and to grant them morphological value in direct proportion to their 

 degree of conservatism. This must be done by a synthetic group- 

 ing of the facts, without any regard as to which organs are most 

 convenient of study. He must also constantly bear in mind that 

 an organ eminently conservative in one group may be variable in 

 another. Degree of conservatism can be determined only by very 

 broad and extended comparisons, and Is to be gauged by the 

 measure of change accompanying change of habit. 



The great difficidty in putting this generally accepted princi- 

 ple in practice is the difficulty in determining whether the organs 

 compared are homologous. Thus neiihridia are organs of a 

 certain function, but they are not of the same kind, not homolo- 

 gous, in all animal groups. Therefore they are not very con- 

 servative organs, even though they are present in nuiny groups 

 of animals. This is not, however, the place to discuss the organs in 

 detail with regard to their relative morphological values : that would 

 necessitate the reviewal of an enormous nui.--s of facts. But it may 

 be allowable to point out briefly those organs which seem of most 

 impoitance in phylogeny. Omitting the intestinal organ, which 

 is very readily modified by change of mode of life (as present in 

 the female but absent in the male of Rotatoria), we find two 

 organs of general occurrence in the ]^Ietazoa, the reproductive and 

 the nervous systems. These are jiliyletically not as old as the body 

 layers (ectoderm and entoderm), but both are found from the 

 Cnidaria npward, and with fewer modifications than the bodv 

 layers. Even extreme endoparasitism, the severest of all condi- 

 tions, does not lead to the complete suppression of the.se organs. It 

 cannot be stated that either of them is strictly homologous 

 throughout in all Meta/.oa, for there is good evidence of substitu- 

 tion here, though to much less extent jwrhaps than in other organs. 

 On the whole the nervous system, its central ganglionic ])ortion, 

 remains very conservative ; and so does the central, gomulal por- 

 tion of the reproductive system. The.se two are the most conserva- 

 tive of all organs, and their structure should receive fii-st considera- 

 tion in phyletic cla.-'sification. The mu.-'cuiar system i.s as old as the 

 nervous system, muscle and nerve are synchronous, but it is well 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 221 



kuowu that the muscular system is very easily modified by change 

 of habit. In the third rank would fall the organs known as 

 nephridia or kidneys. The vascular, respiratory, locomotory, 

 special sensory, intestinal, tegumentary and skeletal organs are all 

 of less morphological value thau these three for the determination 

 of far-reachiug relationships. 



{d) The Mode of Treatment of the Parts. 



The parts of the organization that should furnish the basis for 

 morphological study leading to classification, we have seen, are 

 those generally termed organs, and not larger complexes of these 

 organs nor yet smaller parts of them. Broadly speaking, the 

 organ is an anatomical unit in the consideration of the organism. 

 And we have seen that it is necessary to fix upon certain parts for 

 primary treatment, on account of the impossibility of mentally 

 grasping the organization in its entirety. By examining in succes- 

 sion these components a synthetic concept of the whole organization 

 may be gained. And all the parts must be studied — that is, the 

 organization as a whole must be understood — before we can deter- 

 mine which of these parts are of most value for determining the 

 phyletic aflinities of that particular organization. 



The mode of treatment of these organs is to compare those of 

 different organisms, comparing together only those which evi- 

 dently correspond auatomically. The more conservative organs 

 would be the basis for defining larger groups, the successively less 

 conservative for defining successively smaller groups ("small" 

 being used in the sense of " closely related"). This is a well- 

 recognized principle. 



But great divergence of opinion is found in regard to the point of 

 the mode of considering the organ, that is, which of its character- 

 istics should be employed ; and unless there be some logical basis in 

 this treatment, the classification will be inconsequent and erroneous. 



An organ may be considered with regard to any of the following 

 characteristics: color, consistency, volume, shape, structure, 

 differentiation of its parts, position with regard to other organs, 

 and number. The guiding principles in determining which should 

 be employed as the basis of treatment are two, the degree of con- 

 servatism of the characteristic and the degree in which the charac- 

 teristic represents the organ as a whole. Judged in this way, the 




222 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



characteristics of color aud comistency are found to he of .small 

 value. Number is iu strict sense uot a characteristic of an 

 organ, but duplication of organs is a cliai'acteristic of the general 

 plau, as iu bilaterally symmetrical forms where certain organs 

 are paired, iu metameric forms where they are serially duplicated, 

 in radiate forms where they are antimerically duplicated. Some- 

 times an organ is excessively duplicated without anj' corresponding 

 duplication of the body plan (e. jr., testes within one proglottid of 

 a Ce.^tode). The relation that the number bears to the larger 

 divisions of the organization must be determined, iu order for us 

 to conclude whether the two correspond ; for when number of 

 organs and number of larger body parts con-espond, the number 

 would have more significance for the comjjrehension of the whole 

 organization than if there were no such corrcs])oudeuce. Number 

 is a characteristic which must always be carefully considered, for 

 the relative degrees of duplication of organs aud of their concentra- 

 tion or concrescence are of great importance iu estimating the 

 affinity of the organism to its allies. 



The po-nt ion of an organ with regard to the other organs is also 

 a characteristic to be carefully considered, though perhaps it has 

 uot the same value as number ; thus whether the central nervous 

 system lies above or below the iutcstine or heart, and whether the 

 skeleton is external or internal. For if variations in the position 

 of an organ cannot be readily explained by change iu mode of 

 life, it is probably the ca.<e that more conservative intrinsic growth 

 energies are the occasion, ami the hitter should be ascribed great 

 importance until the contrary be proved. It is just these phe- 

 nomena, whicli .seem most inexplicable, that should serve as warning 

 signals not to proceed further until many explanations for them 

 have been tested. Why the genital orifices in certain Rhabdocadida 

 are near the anterior end, iu others near the po.-teridv end of the 

 I)(idy, we do not yet undei'stand, and it is very difficult to give a 

 good reason for the shifting of such imporlaikt structures. But 

 until it is proved that the shifting is due to .-ome trivial cau.se, we 

 have no right tn dis'-egard in classification such differences of ]x»si- 

 tion. Again, siicii an apparently trivial characteristic as the |>o.si- 

 tion of the anus: in mo.st freely motile Meta/.oa it is ventral, in 

 the Entomostraca and the Rotatoria it is dorsal. The dorsal position 

 in these two groups has beeu given no particular morphological 




1902.] XATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 223 



importance, as far as I can recall ; Ijut without wisliiug to preju- 

 dice the question it may be askeil, is this dorsal position to be 

 explained simply as due to peculiarities in the external skeleton ? 

 If it cannot be so explained, then it is a characteristic which 

 should receive more attention than it has heretofore. The pro- 

 boscis of an Echlnorhynchm is morphologically a part of the body 

 wall, that of a Turbellariau a fold of the pharynx alone; this 

 difference of position is sufficient to disassociate these structures, even 

 though they should agree closely in anatomical details, and here, 

 then, relative position would be of more value than structural 

 detail of the organ itself. The relative position of internal organs, 

 which are not immediately exposed to change in external environ- 

 ment, is a characteristic which must receive careful consideration. 

 The other characteristics of an organ, form and differentiation 

 of its parts, are especially important. The general form is of more 

 importance for phylogeuy than its minute histological structure, and 

 its grosser than its finer structure. This point has been well ex- 

 pressed by E. B. Wilson:'* " The nephrostome is a uephrostome 

 all the same whether it consist of one cell, two cells, or many 

 cells. Its form and fimction are both independent of the number 

 of component cells. Cells multiply, but the orgau remains the 

 same throughout. So far as homologies are concerned, the existence 

 of cells may be ignored." And to consider the uephridia of 

 Turbellaria, Nemertini and Annelida. The nephridia of the firet 

 two mentioned groups ai'e rightly considered to be of essentially 

 the same type and different from the nephridia of Annelida, since 

 they consist of continuous longitudinal ducts with numerous lateral 

 branches, while a nephridium of an Annelid is essentially a single, 

 imbranched tube ; we cannot say there is a sharp distinction 

 between the uemertean and the turbellarian type, because the 

 terminal end of a branch in the former is multicellular, in the 

 latter unicellular. Similarly, in certain Nematoda the intestinal 

 lumen is intercellular, in others intracellular; but this histological 

 difference should not lead us to doubt the correspondence of these 

 intestines. In regard to the uephridia of Nematoda, there is still 

 reasonable doubt whether they should be considered comparable to 

 ihe protonephridia of Turbellaria; but this doubt is based upon 



'* The Emhryological Criterion of Homology, Woods HoU Lectures, 



189G. 




224: PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [--^Pril, 



their general anatomy (lack of lateral branches), not upon the 

 fact that in the one case they are unicellular and in the other mul- 

 ticellular. In other words, in considering the homologies of organs 

 one should not look for cell nuclei. The grosser differentiations of 

 an organ are of the first importance in phyletic classification. A 

 compound eve of an Arachnid is essentially a single lens in con- 

 junction with retinal cells arranged iu retinulte ; and we characterize 

 it so in comparison with the compound eyes of insects or crusta- 

 ceans, and need 'not define it further in terms of finer structure of 

 rhabdomes of nerve endings. The fingers on the hand of a urodcle 

 may be compared with those of a mammal, because of their essen- 

 tial similarity and corresponding relations to the fore-limb, tliough 

 in the one the skeletal rays are cartilaginous and iu the other 

 osseous. The method should be in general exactly that by which 

 an anatomist examines any ])art — first, a careful examination of 

 the whole with the naked eye, then of a part with a low degree of 

 magnification, then of smaller parts with greater magnification — 

 but with this difference, that the more minute the examination 

 becomes the less general value the parts have for the purposes of 

 phylogeny. 



To summarize, all characteristics of an organ liave value for the 

 phylogenist, except the more superficial ones of color and consist- 

 ency. Those characteristics which most completely represent the 

 organ as a whole are the ones of most importance, and minute 

 details of structiu-e may lead to erroneous conclusions witli regard 

 to homologies. Degree of conservatism is also a criterion of the 

 value of a characteristic. Broader homologies must be based upon 

 the relations to the rest of the organization, and ujwn the grosser 

 differentiations. 



VII. Comparison ok the Methods of E.mbryology and 

 Comparative Anatomy in Detekminino Homologies. 



The organism is to be classified at the end of its development, 

 for reasons given in section III. But so far there has been no 

 discussion as to whether for determining homologies the orgjiuism 

 should be considered at this stage alone, or whether in previous 

 stages al.so. The question is, is the determination of homologies to be 

 made on the data of comparative anatomy or of comparative embry- 

 ology, or ujwn both '! In other words, are homologies to be drawn 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 225 



from essential similarity of adult structure, or of development ? As 

 to which of these methods is the more correct, has been and prob- 

 ably will continue to be a question of dispute. The comparative 

 anatomists maintain one side, the enibrj-ologists another ; and 

 I^robably because the former are less conversant with the facts of 

 embryology, and the latter with the facts of adult structure. Those 

 who are at the same time comparative anatomists and embryolo- 

 gists have in general taken more of a middle course. 



The argument for the embryological method is mainly based 

 upon the hypothesis that the ontogeny is a more or less true parallel 

 to or repetition of the phylogeny. The strength of the embryo- 

 logical method depends mainly upon the strength of this hypothesis, 

 so that we have first to examine its correctness. This is the basis 

 of the embryological method in the study of phylogeny, and there- 

 fore in the search for homologies, using the term ' ' homology ' ' in 

 the sense of " homophyly." Certain writers have been more 

 cautious, considering homology to depend ujiou corresponding onto- 

 genetic mode of development, whether the ontogenetic correspond to 

 the phylogeuetic or not. But in assuming that the ontogenetic 

 development may not correspond to the phylogeuetic, they have no 

 basis for assuming that essential ontogenefic agreement denotes ho- 

 mology, if homology be used in the sense of homophyly. 



(a) Hypothesis of the Correspondence of Ontogeny and Phylogeny. 



It is not my purpose to give a historical sketch of this hypothe- 

 sis and of the many opinions which have been expressed with 

 regard to it, but merely to state briefly the tenets, and then to 

 examine them critically for our present purpose. 



This hypothesis is an old one, going back to the eighteenth cen- 

 tury, if not indeed to the seventeenth, and as von Baer expresses 

 it, is " mehr eine Entwickelungsstufe der Wissenschaft als das 

 Eigenthum eines einzelneu Mannes. " It was held in the early 

 statement of it, that a higher form in its development passes succes- 

 sively through lower animal forms — i. e., that the ontogeny is a 

 relatively exact repetition of the phylogeny. The first logical criti- 

 cism of the hypothesis thus stated was made by von Baer,'' who 

 postulated the following laws of the development of the individ- 



" Entwkkslungageschkhie der Thiere, 1838. 

 15 




226 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



ual : " ( 1 ) Dass das Gemeiusame einer grossern Thiergruppe 

 sich friiher im Eiiihryo bildet, als das Besoudere. (2) Ails deni 

 AJlgemeinsteu der Forinverhiiltuisse bildet sich das weuiger 

 Allgemeiue uud so fort, bis eudlicli das 8pecialiste auftritt. (3) 

 Jeder Embryo einer bestirumten Thierform, austatt die audereu 

 bestinimteu Formeu zu durchlaiifeu, scheidet siob vielmehr von 

 ilmeu. (4) Im Grimde i.st also nie der Embryo einer lioliern 

 Thierform einer anderen Thiei'form gleich, sonderu nur seinem 

 Embryo." He objects to the hypothesis that no adult animal 

 has a yolk sack ; that none is surrounded by embryonic fluids ; 

 that it is not the case that an embryo of a higher animal in 

 each ontogenetic stage corresponds in every point with an adult 

 individual of a lower species; that it is not the case that iu the 

 ontogeny of a lower form structural relations do not occur which 

 are found in the adult of a higher form ; and that parts Mhieli 

 are characteristic of only the highest forms do not appear latest 

 in the ontogeny. He recognizes that there are indeed many cor- 

 respondences between ontogenetic stages of higher and adult 

 stages of lower forms, but contends that it is " noch uicht erwei- 

 sen, dass jeder Embryo einer hohern Thierform allmiihlig die uie- 

 deren Thierformen durchliiufo, vielmehr scheint sich der Typus 

 jedes Tliiers gleich anfangs im Embryo zu fixireu uud die gauze 

 Entwickeluug zu beherrscheu." Auy one who reads carefully 

 this classic work will find there staled, very acutely and logically, 

 most [of the objections, generally supposed to be of nnich more 

 modern dale, to the theory. 



Fritz Muller'" held that the theory is in the main correct, but 

 pointed out that phylogenetic traces may become more or less 

 obliterated in the ontogeny; he held, accordingly, that the lack of 

 exact correspondence is due to embryos adapting themselves to new 

 modes of life. Haeckel has developed the theory most thoroughly; 

 and has consequently used it most iu the dctermiiuition of pliylog- 

 euies. He terms the theory the " biogeuel inches Grundgcsetz, " 

 and states it: " Die Ontogenie { Keimesgeschichte ) ist einc kurze 

 NViederlioluug der Phylogenie (Stamniesgeschichtc).'" He also in- 

 troduced the terms " palingenesis" and " ceuogenesis, " and state.*: 

 "Die Phylogenesis ist die mechauische Ui^saclie der Ontogenesis." 

 Thus Haeckel's [losition iu regard to tins hypothesis is iu .some 



"^ Fur Daruin, 18 J4. 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 227 



respects a return to the opinion that was dominaut l^efore the time 

 of von Baer. 



Hatschek"' gives a brief but able consideration of this hypothesis : 

 " Die Ergebuisse der vergleichendeu Outogenie liabeu stets uur den 

 Werth von Wahrscheinlichkeitsschlussen, genau in demselben Grade 

 wie die der vergleichendeu Auatomie. Die relative Sielierlieit hangt 

 in beideu Fallen uur von der Meuge der Praemissen und von der 



Scharfe des Schliessens ab Die Methode der vergleichendeu 



Outogenie ist eine Erweiterung der vergleichend anatomischen 

 Methode (Festellimg von Homologie und Analogic) durch An wen- 

 dung derselben auf Formenreihen Da der iudividuelle 



Organismus niclit durch eiueu einzigen Foriuzustand, sonderu durch 

 eine Formenreihe reprasentirt ist, die er wiihreud seines individu- 

 ellen Lebens durchlauft, so kanu es auch nicht geniigen, allein die 

 Endformen zu vergleichen, sonderu es muss die gauze Formenreihe 

 beriicksichtigt werden. ' ' He concludes also that when a larval or 

 embryonic form is characteristic for a large group, we are only 

 justified in coucludiug that the ancestor of such a group possessed 

 also this larval or embryonic form ; and only when the latter shows 

 great correspondence with the adult stages of lower forms can it be 

 said with great probability fo correspond 1o a similar ancestral 

 form. 



As the biogenetic law is generally held lo-day, it assumes that 

 Ihe stages of the individual do not repeat but only to greater or 

 lesser degree parallel the stages of the race: the correspondence is 

 not one of repetition but of parallelism. And in each particidar 

 case the palingenesis must be distinguished from the cenogeuesis. 

 The possibility of error is in proportion to the difficulty of making 

 this distinction. 



(6) On the Application of this Hypothesis. 



On the principle that the organization should be considered as a 

 whole, there is uo a priori reason for disregarding the various stages 

 of the organization. AVith von Baer we may say that the indi- 

 vidual development consists in a progress from the more general to 

 the more special, and the further the individual of one race de- 

 velops the more it diverges accordingly from individuals of other 

 races. The biogenetic law is an assumption, aud jjut into practice 

 -' Lehrhuch der Zoologie, 1888. 




228 PEOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



it may become & circulw vitlosm ; but at the same time the maiu 

 principle of comparative anatomy is also a postulate, namely, that 

 essential agreement of adult structure denotes phyletic relationship. 

 When the conclusions from the embryologieal basis do not agree 

 with those from the anatomical, how is the decision to be made ? 



In the fii-st place, it is evident that the adult stages of organisms 

 do represent phyletic stages, while in many cases ontogentic stages 

 certainly do not. There can also be no doubt that the characters 

 of the adult become " segregated " (Lankester) or " accelerated " 

 (Cope) gradually further back into the ontogeny, as the racial pro- 

 gress coniinues, and so in the course of time would modify more and 

 more the ontogeny as a record of the phylogeny. Also the sequence 

 in the formation of the organs of the individual need not be the 

 same as their sequence in the racial develoimient ; a point already 

 made by von Baer, and to-tlay particularly insisted upon by Keibel 

 and others. 



In the second place, the indivichial must be classified at its ma- 

 ture stage in order to show its full degree of racial development. 

 This principle, therefore, demands that the organization should be 

 primarily cdnsiderod at that stage. Judged from this iioint of view, 

 any classification based entirely upon the mode of cleavage of the 

 ovum or upon the occurrence of a certain kind of larva is incor- 

 rect, because it would represent the organism before i^t had I'eachcd 

 its full specialization. Here come such classifications as that given 

 by Friedrich Brauer for the Diptera (according to the position of 

 the split in the shell of tlie pupa), and that whicii has led to the 

 formation of the group of the Trochozoa. 



Thirdly, we have to consider on what the correspmdence of the 

 ontogeny to the phylogeny rests. The facts of c<)mparativc anat- 

 omy show that the groups of the Annelida and Mollusca are phy- 

 letically connected. The careful stu<lies of the cell lineage <>f tyjws 

 of these two groups have shown a surprising and wholly unexix'cted 

 degree of correspondence in their mode of cleavage, up to the 

 time of the appearance of the lar\-al organs; while from another 

 standpoint the larval types of both show close structural simi- 

 larity. This is sufficient as a case for examination, (hough a 

 inuiiber of others would suffice equally well. Now, docs this cor- 

 respondence of the ontogeny to the phylogeny deixsnd upon 

 the individual inheriting the successive preceding stages of the 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 229 



race, or upon the growth-energies of the race being essentially the 

 sum total of the growth-energies of the individuals which compose 

 it ? Evidently the latter, with the reservation that growth- 

 energies are directed to the development of structure immediately 

 in view, ami with change of habit become correspondingly modi- 

 fied. If at a certain stage the individual is pelagic and later 

 sessile, the growth-energies are first directed to the formation of the 

 structures necessary for the lialjits of the pelagic period, later to the 

 formation of those for the sessile condition. If the pelagic habit 

 became lost, the growth-energies from the first become directed 

 toward the development of structures essential for the sessile state."' 

 There is here a continual adaptation to new conditions of life, 

 restricted by the line of direction held by these energies in pre- 

 ceding ontogenies, the restriction more or less dii-ectly diminishing 

 according as the preceding ontogeny is far removed, and according 

 to the degree of plasticity of the organization. 



Obviously, in regard to the Annelida and MolliLsca, we may 

 conclude either that their cell lineage is so closely correspondent 

 because of their close genetic affinity (there not having been time 

 for a great difference to arise), or because the cell lineage in both 

 is followed by a more or less similar larval stage. In the former 

 view genetic affinity is postulated, in the latter convergence of 

 cleavage on account of the similarity in the larvse. As to the 

 larvaj, these may be alike because oi the genetic affinity of the two 

 groups, or because they lead a corresponding mode of life and are 

 formed at an equally early period. At every point in this discus- 

 sion of embryonic and larval homologies we find the possibility of 

 two divergent opinions. The pros and cons of the two positions 

 have been more or less fully discussed by the cell liueagists, and it 

 is not for me to enter into questions concerning the homologies of 

 blastomeres. It is sufficient to state here that the cell lineagi.sts 

 have more or less divided opinions on these points, as can be seen 

 by an examination of the papers of E. B. Wilson (different 

 opinions expressed in successive studies), Conklin, Mead, Tread- 

 well, Lillie, Eisig, Heath, and others. 



One point may be made here. If the biogenetic hypothesis is 



^' This is necessarily not an exact statement of the facts. Exactly 

 stated, the growth-energies are i»i??!f(Ziai<;Zi/ directed to the establishment 

 of the next following stage. Yet. certainly all the energies are directed 

 toward the establishment of the ultimate structural condition. 




230 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



true, then iu general the earlier the stage of the outogeuy the 

 broader should be the homologies to be determined from it. But 

 this not only does not accord with the facts (as in the case of 

 embryonic structures which could not have been represented in 

 any adult form), but would lead to the absurdity of homologizing 

 all ova —an absurdity because the egg of a mammal is as much a 

 mammal as the adult, and the egg of an arachnid equally well an 

 arachnid. Ova of different organisms are more or less alike, 

 because they all represent single cells with generalized potenti- 

 alities, and hence usually not great structural differentiations; 

 and not because they represent a repetition of a protozoan ances- 

 tor. Sexual reproduction, as clearly shown by Richard Hert- 

 wig, is characterized as reproduction by means of germ cells, 

 whether the germ cell be fertilized or not (parthenogenesis) ; and 

 since sexual reproduction is found in all ^letazoa, the beginning of 

 each metazoan individual is a single cell (or a union of two cells)."' 

 And the gradual ontogenetic differentiation of the organism being 

 accompanied by cell division, each metazoan must have a two-cell, 

 a four-cell stage, etc. ; in the course of the further differentiation these 

 must become arranged into layers, and there must be folding of tlie.<e 

 layers. Thus agreement Ln the early ontogeny at least is directly re- 

 ferable to reproduction by means of germ cells, and to the develop- 

 ment of these cells proceeding by division ; this is the immediate 

 explanation, and much more circuitous is the theory that in the phy- 

 logeny there followed upon the unicellular condition a parvicelhdar, 

 and upon that a mujticelkdar. Thus the earliest of the processes of 

 the ontogeny, which on the assumption of iho liiogenetic theory 

 should show the broadest homologies, are the very ones which show 

 homologies least clearly. The ovum of a mammal is a mammal 

 and not a jirotozoan ; and there is no adult protozoan known 

 which is structurally similar to the ovum of any known metazoan- 

 In most cases the cy(o[ilasniic differentiation of a jjrotozoan is nuich 

 greater than that of an ovum of a metaz<ian, yet the metazoan is 

 higher in the phyletic scale. 



Thus the organism represents in its ontogeny merely conditions 

 preparatory and subservient to the perfected, terminal stage. The 



" Of course in the case of a protozoan the single cell is at once soma 

 and germ plasm, and is not to be compared to the germ cell alone of 

 Metazoa. 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 231 



structural conditions of this stage control, more especially where 

 the ontogeny is without metamorphosis, the nature of the condi- 

 tions that precede it. ^letamorphosis and larval conditions have 

 probably been secondarily acquired, and direct development is the 

 more primitive; for metamorphosis is a result of change of habit 

 at different periods, and such change of habit is not as primitive as 

 a habit continuous through the life of the individual, since it is 

 more complex. It will, of course, be understood that in the case 

 of certain phyla, such as the Annelida, I grant that the larval 

 type of development may be primitive, and that forms which do 

 not show it have lost it ; but that it could not have been primitive 

 for the ancestors of the Annelida. There is also good reason to 

 conclude that the larv£e of different phyla of organisms may be 

 alike, because they are ontogenetic forms of essentially the same 

 mode of life, and because their organs are comparatively few in 

 number and at an early stage of specialization. The earlier the 

 stage of the ontogeny, the greater in general should be the agree- 

 ments in structure, not because the homologies are more comprehen- 

 sive at that time, but because there are fewer stnictural parts to 

 show differences. 



Thus far we have criticised the application of the biogenetic 

 theory to the determination of homology. These criticisms might 

 be multiijlied and examined more in detail; and they are objec- 

 tions which have been made before, though not from the standpoint 

 of the necessity of classifying the organism at its terminal stage. 



Now we have to consider in what respects the study of onto- 

 genetic conditions is necessary in the search for homologies. 

 Homology is a likeness of descent, is homophyly, whether it be 

 based upon adult or embryonic structure, provided that there is a 

 good basis employed in its determination. It is an erroneous posi- 

 tion to hold that the adult anatomy alone is sufficient for deter- 

 mining all homologies; it is equally erroneous to hold tliat homo- 

 logies can be determined on the basis of similarity in ontogenetic 

 formation alone. Whenever a structure is greatly degenerate in 

 the adult condition, a study of its preceding ontogenetic stages is 

 often the only guide we have as to its homologies."* Then in organ- 



°* Often, however, a highly degenerate structure can be explained by 

 comparative anatomy as well as by embryology. Thus the pineal glaud 

 of a bird and the pineal eye of certain reptiles. 




232 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



isms which are isolated at the present time, whose more immediate 

 relatives have become extinct, it is particularly necessary to know 

 the organization at all its periods. 



In conclusion, we have 1o bear in mind that of first im})ortauce 

 in classification is the terminal, perfected stage of the organism, 

 since this ontogenetic stage is also an actual phylogenetic stage. 

 The further removed from this stage the further from actual 

 phyletic conditions, and therefore the greater chance of error in 

 interpretation. The correspondences between the ontogeny and the 

 ph}-logeny are not repetitions but parallels, and in many cases 

 parallels that are so imperfect that it is always necessary to decide 

 what is palingenetic and what cenogenetic. The decision in regard 

 to this point is necessarily more arbitrary and subjective than a 

 decision upon similarities of adidt structure ; for the embiyological 

 method, in addition to assuming in common with comparative 

 anatomy that essential similarity of structure and position denotes 

 homology, has also to assume as correct that the coui-se of the onto- 

 geny is more or less similar to that of the jihylogeuy. Comparative 

 anatomy Ls not obliged to make this assumption, and so has one 

 premise less. In this conclusion we do not diminish the value of 

 comparative embryology, but only restrict tlie a]iplication of its 

 facts. Comparative embryology has been fully as proiluctive as 

 comparative anatomy in establishing working hypotheses, the value 

 of which for research is indisputal>le. But it is, in the main, from 

 comjjarative anatomy that the phylogeuy is to lie determined ; and 

 from comparative embryology an uudei-staudiug of the growth- 

 energies, and therefore a more conijilote comprehension of the adult 

 structures. And it is the logical method to investigate all the 

 series of forms of the organism, so as to reach the most comprehen- 

 sive concept of the organization as a whole. 




1902.] NATURAL SCIE.^-CE^ OF PHILADELPHIA. 



233 



ON THE LOCALITIES OF A. ADAMS' JAPANESE HELICIDJE. 

 BY HENRY A. PILSBRY. 



The paper by Dr. Artlnir Adams ou tlie species of Helicidifi 

 found m .Japau,' published iu 1868, would have formed a founda- 

 tion for subsequent faunistic work if the species had been recog- 

 nizably defined. As it is, that production has been the chilf 

 difficulty with which recent investigators have had to contend. 



Tlie numerous new species descriljed by Adams are so inad- 

 equately defined that it is well-nigh impossible to recognize them 

 without specimens fr,.m the original localities to compare with his 

 descriptions, ./bid here another obstacle is met, for a part of his 

 localities are out-of-the-way places, not indicated ou ordmary 

 maps, some of them even nameless iu Hasse.istein's magnificent 

 folio atlas of Japan. 



Some little assistance is afforded by Adams' Tvaveh;- an innocu- 

 ous book written in a bread-and-butfer-miss style aud sin<.idarly 

 free from information, useful or otherwise. My colleague Mr 

 Benjamin .Smith Lyman, has rendered indispensal^le assistance by 

 translating names from Japanese maps and various kind sugo-estions 

 Finally, I am indebted to the Hydrographic Department of H 

 M. Admiralty for information from the log of the "Action," 

 fixing the location of certain places. 



From these and other sources of information I have (raced all of 

 the localities where Adams co llected land snails. In the accouut 



(June.TsHSr'^ ^"^^'"'^ '^ ^"""'"^ ^''^"'^ ^'"'- *^' ^' I'P' ^^9^ 

 - 2VaBf?sjf « mituralist in Japan and Manchuria, by Artliur Adams 



F.L.S., Staff-Sui-geon R. N. Loudou : Hursl and Blackett 1870 ' 



Adams was surgeon of If. M. S. " Actieon," of the Hyd roaranhic Sm- 



vey. The "ActiBon" after passin- throim-h Corea sfriU sk .?l t 



mmmmm 



Adams as surgeon of H M S ■• Snmnrtn„." , F • • ,^\- ^ '^'"'^ '^^f<"'e. 

 islands of the^RiXiu"cin'e'anlco",^rc?l, sot^ ^^^^^r '''''''''"' 




234 PKOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [A.pril, 



following these type localities are located, and a li^t of species from 

 each of them compiled from Adams' paper, is given. In square 

 brackets some critical notes find place. For greater convenience I 

 have dealt with all of Adams' localities, those well known with the 

 others. 



It may be as well to say that A. Adams' identifications of land 

 shells are often open to doubt. 



RiFUNSIRI. 



Kebun-shiri is a small, rugged island, west of the north end of 

 Yesso, near and southeast of Rishiri. The " Actteou " was there 

 September 15, 1859. So far as I know no naturalist has visited 

 the island since. 



Limax vartans A. Ad. 



Helix ( Canuena) mimiida A. Ad. 



RiSIKI. 



A snow-capped volcanic peak. 



Limax varians A. Ad. 



Helix ( Canuena) editha A. Ad. 



Hakodadi. 



Hakodate, Prov. Ojima, Yesso. 



Limax varians A. Ad. 



Succinea laufa Gld. 



Helix (Aeu^sta') Iceta Gld. [= Eulota {Mastiffeulota) gainesi var. 

 hakodaiemu Pils.]. 



Helix {Canuena) pyrrhozona Ph. \=z Eulota (Cathaica) fasciola 

 Drap., sole record of the species from Japan, and requiring con- 

 firmatory evidence]. 



Helix {Patula) paupera Gld. [= Pyramidula pauper Gld.]. 



Hyalina ( Conulus) labilia Gld. 



Matsumai. 



At the southern point of Yesso, Province Ojima ; otherwise known 

 as Fukuyama. 



Helix (Acusta) lata Gld. [see above]. 



Helix {Fruticicola) japonica Pfr. [only record extant of Gane- 

 aella japonica from Yesso]. 



Helix (Paiula) paupera Gld. 



Hyalina {Conulus) tenera A. Ad. 



Also, Blanfordia bensoni A. Ad. 




1902.] natural sciences of philadelphia. 235 



Tabu-sima. 



Tabu-shima or Tobi-shima is a small island off Ugo Province, 

 lying near the west coast of Nippon, about eighty miles northeast 

 of Sado Island. In liis Travels, p. 257, Adams writes of it as 

 " a small island about thirty miles from Niegata in Nipixtn " ; but 

 it is nearer eighty miles from Niigata. The name appears on some 

 maps as Tobi-shima or Tabo-shima. It is nearly opposite the peak 

 Tshio-kai-san, on the mainland of Nippon. The following species 

 are recorded : 



Philomycus bilineatus Bs. 



Helix (Canuena) qucesita Dh. [^Eidota (Euhadra) quwsilci]. 



Helix (Fruticicola) japonica Pfr. [_Ganesella]. 



Helix (^Fruticicola) patruelis A. Ad. [=Ganesella tabuensis 

 Ancey] . 



Helix {Pledotropis) ciliosa Pfr. [probably an error]. 



Helix {Pledolropis') conella A. Ad. 



Hyalina ( Conulus') incerta A. Ad. 



Clausilia martensi Herkl. 



This place is also type locality of Helicina japonica A. Ad. 



AWA-SIMA. 



Awo-shima on Hassensteiu's map. An islet northeast of Sado. 

 It is not mentioned in Adams' Travels. It is off the north end of 

 Echigo Province. 



Heliv (^Pledoiropis) ciliosa Pfr. [probably an error] . 



Helix (^Pledotropis) setocinda A. Ad. 



Helix (^Pledotropis) scabricala A. Ad. 



Clausilia pluviatilis Bs. [doubtless an error] . 



Clausilia valida Pfr. [doubtless an error] . 



Clausilia stimpsoni A. Ad. 



Sado. 



The largest island on the west coast of Nipjjon, in 38° N. lat. , 

 mentioned in Travels, p. 259. 

 Helix (^Aciista) sieboldiana Pfr. 

 Helix ( Camcena) qucesita Desh. 

 Helix (Pledotropis) setocinda A. Ad. 

 Also type locality of Blanfordia japonica A. Ad. 




236 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [-A-pril, 



Dagalet Island. 



Now kuown as Matsu-shima. A small and little-kuowu island 

 in the Sea of Japan, east of Corea. See Travels, p. 174. Adams 

 visited the island, which is inhabited or at least used as a HallotL'!- 

 fishing station by Coreaus, on the 28th of June, 1859. It is 

 densely wooded, with a central peak 4,000 feet high. In the 

 Travels, p. 178, a slug " with the mantle covering the whole of its 

 back" (probably P/u7o»ii/ci(.3) and a Zua (Cochlicopa) are men- 

 tioned. In the paper on Japanese Helicida; only two species 

 are given : 



Helix [Canuena) luchuana Sowh. [?]. 



Helix (Patula) elatior A. Ad. 



It is the only locality for the latter species. The identification of 

 H luhuana is doubtful. 



Tsu-sima. 



Tsushima, in the Corean Strait, is a locality ])rolific in land 

 snails. Adams reports the following : 



Helix (^Acuda'} sieboldiana Pfr.. 



Helix ( Cnmcena) orientalis A. and K. [The siieeimens recorded 

 were probably E. luhuana tswhimana ]\Illdff.]. 



Helix (Plectotropis) ciliosa Pfr. [?]. 



Helix (Plecfotropis) sqitarrosa Gld. [??]. 



Helix {Pleclotropis) trochvla A. Ad. 



Hyalina'i nitida Mill, ["iily record from Ja])un. Probably 

 wrong]. 



Hyaliiia (Jlicrocystis) rejeefa Pfr. [only record from dapaii. 

 Probably wrong]. 



Hyalina (Co7iulus) stenogyra X. Ad. [A'a^'e/Za]. 



Clausilia sieboldi Pfr. 



Clausilia stimpnoni A. Ad. 



Nangasaki (Nacv-saki). 



In addition to the .«pecie.s given below, Adams states in his 

 Travels that he got Hadra peliomphala, Satnima japonica and 

 Acusta sieboldiana at Naga.saki (p. 268). The first two are im- 

 probable. 



Helix (^Acusta) conispira Pfr. 




1902.] NATURAL SCIEN'CES OF PHILADELPHIA. 237 



Helix ( Gamwna) orientalis A. aud R. [What he found was 

 probably E. luhuana']. 



Helix {Frutlckola) genulabris Mart. \= E. similaris var.]. 



SiMONOSEKI. 



A town of Nagato Province, on the strait of the same name. 

 Hassenstein prefers the name Akamagasheki. 



Heli.v (Friiticicola) stimpsoni Pfr. [= Eiilota similaris var.]. 



^lososEKi. 



A village at the uorlhern point of the Province Bnzen, Kyushu, 

 on the Strait of Simouoseki, and spelled ' ' Mosi ' ' on some maps. 

 It is the " Moji " of Hassenstein" s folio map of 1885. 



Helix (Acusta) sieboldiana Pfr. 



Helix (Cmiuena) peliomphala Pfr. [probably E. callizona 

 maritima G. and P.]. 



Helix (Canmna) orientalis A. and R. [probably £. luhuana 

 Sovvb.]. 



Helix (Frutieicola) commoda A. Ad. 



Helix {Fridicicola) despccta A. Ad. 



Ht/alina (^Coauhvs} phyllophila A. Ad. 



Clausilia lirulata A. Ad. 



Tanabe. 



On the southern coast of Province Kii, near the entrance of Kii 

 channel. Only the last species has been recognized by later 

 authors. The first Uxo belong to Ganesella. 



Helix (Fndicicokt) peculiaris A. Ad. 



Helix (Fruticicola) gibbosa A. Ad. 



Clausilia plicilabris A. Ad. [= C. aurantiaca var.] 



Tago. 



The location of this place caused me some trouble, from the 

 conflicting data given by Adams. In one place he speaks of Tago, 

 on the shores of the Inland Sea, while again he writes,' " not far 

 from Tatiyama is a snug little harbour called Tago."' 



On application to the Hydrographic Department of the British 

 Admiralty, I learned that ' ' The ' Actseon ' spent some time in 



' Tratels of a Naturalist in Japan and Mancfiuria, p. 311. 




238 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



Tago Bay, Suruga Gulf, in September, 1861, aud there is no 

 doubt that this is the place referred to, lat. 34° 48' N., long. 138° 

 45' E." 



The following species were obtained ; only the first two have been 

 recognized with certainty by subsequent author's : 



Helix ( Camcena') jieliomphah Pfr. 



Helix (^Camwna) myomphala ]\Iart. [^Ganesella m.]. 



Helix {Fruticicola) textrina Hens, [certainly an error]. 



Helir {Frutimcola) sphinctostoma A. Ad. \_Ga)iesella\. 



Helix (Fruticicola) collinsoni A. Ad. 



Helix {Fruticicola) concinna A. Ad. 



Hyulina ( Conuliw) acutangula A. Ad. 



Claimlia gouldi A. Ad. 



Clausilia spreta A. Ad. 



In the Travels Adams mentions finding ' ' thousands of Realia ' ' 

 (p. 312). 



SlJIOD.\. 



At the southern end of the peninsula formed by the Proviuce 

 Izu, and notable as being the place first set apart for the use of 

 Americans, at the time of Commodore Perry's visit to Japan. 



Helix (Camwna) qucesita Dh. 



Helix (Camcena) sbnodce Jay.* 



Helix (Fruticicola) similaris F^r. 



Takano-sima and Okino-Sima. 



Takauo-shima and Okino-shima have been two of the most 

 problematic of Adams' localities, as the places to be found under 

 these names on Occideutal maps are not those visited by the 

 "Actseon." The first clue I had to their true location was from 

 the Travels, p. 3011, where Adams states that " on the east eoa.st 

 of Nippon and not far from Taiiyaina are two small i.-ilets named 

 Takano-Sima and Okino-Sima" 



Ou ordinary maps the.*e islets are not even indicated. Has.'ien- 

 steiu, on sheet I^' of the folio atlas, maps them luinulely, but 

 without names. Referring lo a large-scale Japanese atlas in 47 

 sheets, I found the islels were duly indicated, and tlie names when 



•Adams gives //. lierklotsi Marlens as a synonym of simoda. which is 

 far from beius the case. 




1902.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



239 



translated^ proved I hem to be the islands of Adams. Uuder the 

 circumstances I have thought it uot superfluous to give a sketch-map 



of so much of the southern end of Awa Province" as is necessary 

 to show the location of these type localities. At Taka-uo-shima 

 (" Island of Taka ") only one terrestrial species was taken, Pliilo- 

 mycua billneatus Bens., probably = P. confusus Ckll. 



Oki-no-shima, or as A. Adams, from some erroneous notion, 

 transposes it in some places, " Kino-0-Sima, " lies west of Taka- 

 no-shima. The following species are recorded, only the first one 

 having been recognized by recent students of Japanese snails : 



Helix {Fruticicola) similar is Fer. 



Helix (Frutieicola) erasj)edocheila A. Ad. 



Helix (Frutieicola) proba A. Ad. 



Helix (Plectotroj}i3) squarrosa Gld. [probably Plectotropis 

 vulgivaga'\. 



Hyalina ? electrina Gld. [probably an error] . 



Clamilia stenospira A. Ad. 



Clausilia proba A. Ad. 



Claudlia innguis A. Ad. 



In the Travels, p. 310, Adams mentions taking Helix simodce 

 and a little Bu/imulus, and on the next page records Peronia 

 tongana from this place. 



* Mr. Benjamin Smith Lymau, formerly of the Pennsylvania!! and 

 Japanese Geological Surveys, was so good as to translate these as well 

 as many other Japanese place-names. 



'' It may be needless to mention that there are two provinces called 

 Awa : — that intended here, lymg east of the entrance to Tokyo Bay, 

 and another in the eastern part of Shikoku Island. 




240 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



ArPEXDIX. 



Although uot properly coming within the scope of thi^; wrilinp;, it 

 may be useful to list A. Adams' species from the Russian ^lari- 

 time Province and Saghaliu Island ; the latter especially, from being 

 adjacent to Yesso, is of interest to Japanese zoologists. In the 

 Travels Adams mentions finding Acusta lata at Sio-wu-hu Bay, on 

 the Mauchurian coast. I am disposed to think what he found was 

 some allied form, uot ihe Yesso species. 



Olga Bay. 



On the mainland of A^ia, west from Yesso. 



Succineu 2}utris L. [?]. 



Helix (Camcena) pyrrhozona Ph. [= Eulotu (Cathalea) fasciola 

 Drap.]. 



Helix ( Camcena) simodce Jay. [no doubt an erroneous identifica- 

 tion] . 



Helix (^Patula) paupera Gld. 



Vladimir Bay. 



Near Olga Bay, also iu the Maritime Province, on the mainland. 



Suceinea lauta Gld. 



Succiiiea putris h. [?]. 



Helix ( CaitKBna) simodie Jay. ['?] . 



Helix (^ Camcena) pyrrhozo7ia Ph. [^= E. fu^cio/a I)ra[>.]. 



Helix ( Camcena) eclitha A. Ad. 



Helix {Patida) depressa A. Ad. 



Hycdina (Pseudohyalina ) miniiscnla Binn. 



Hyalina (Conulus ) pupula Gld. 



Near Cape Notoro. 



The southern c«pe of Saghalin Island. 

 Helix ( Camcena) serotina A. Ad. 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 241 



OBSERVATIONS UPON 6ALE0PITHECUS VOLANS. 

 BY HENRY C. CHAPMAN, M. D. 



Scattered through the works of Cuvier, Meckel, Oweo, Schre- 

 ber, Waguer, Huxley, aud other anatomists, are to be found here 

 and there more or less brief notices upon the anatomy of Galeo- 

 pithecus. So far, however, as known to the author, the onlj' 

 accoimt of this interesting animal approaching the character of a 

 monograph is the admirable work of Leche,' which leaves subse- 

 quent anatomists but little more to do than confirm, or at best 

 extend, his observations. 



The opportunity having been recently afforded the author of 

 acquiring a specimen of Galeopithecus, it is hoped, in view of the 

 scant literature of the subject and the conflicting opinions still held 

 by zoologists as to the nature of this animal, that the results of its 

 dissection as well as some reflections upon its natural affinities may 

 prove acceptable. 



The specimen, a male measuring 6.4 cent. (16 inches) from the 

 snout to the root of the jtail, was obtained from Sarawak, in the 

 Baram district, Borneo. The specimen had been pi-eserved in spirit 

 for a long time, but unfortunately was not in a sufficiently good state 

 of preservation to admit of thorough dissection. It is hoped, how- 

 ever, that the disposition of the parts was sufficiently made out to 

 permit of comparison with the results obtained by Leche and other 

 anatomists. The author has also had the opportunity more recently 

 of examining the viscera of a male Galeopithecus obtained in 

 Sumatra by the distinguished travelers, Mr. Alfred C. Harrison, 

 Jr. , and Dr. H. N. Hiller, and presented by them to the Academy, 

 which did not differ essentially, however, from those of the Borneo 

 iijjecimen. 



Skeleton. 



As the skeleton of Galeopithecus has often been described, atten- 

 tion will be directed only to those peculiarities which sei-ve to show its 



' Ueber die Saugethiergattung Galeopithecus, Kongliga Svenska Vetens- 

 kaps-Akademiens Handlingar, 1884-1885. 



16 




242 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



relation to the other forms of mammalian life with which it has 

 been affiliated, and the same plan will be jjursued in the aecomit of 

 the remaining organs. 



Among such peculiax-ilies, as regards the skull, may be mentioned 

 the presence in Galeopithecus of the foramen transmitting the supra- 

 orbital nerve and artery, the division of the lachrymal bone into 

 facial and orbital portions, and the interorbital situation of the 

 lachrymal canal. In these respects Galeopithecus agrees closely with 

 the insectivorous Tupaia. On the other hand, in the formation of the 

 tympanic bulla and in the condyle of the jaw being situated at 

 nearly the same level as the teeth, Galeopithecus agrees with bats, 

 Chiromys, as well as certain insectivores. In regard to the vertebral 

 column, Galeopithecus differs from both Insectivora and Chiroptera 

 in the presence of spinous processes and a jiubic symphisis, and in 

 the absence of a ridge on the sacrum and a keel on the sternum. 

 It is an interesting fact that the sacrum, according to Leche," de- 

 velops caudad — that is to say, ossifies at the expense of the tail, 

 the reverse of which obtains in other mammals. In the presence 

 of an epicoracoid cartilage lying between the clavicle and first rib, 

 and in the epicoracoid clement being united with the clavicle, and 

 in the elongated character of the scapula, Galeopithecus and Ptero- 

 pus agree. In the splitting of the coracoid into two distinct \^vo- 

 cesses, doi-sal and ventral, the latter the homologue of the coracoid 

 in other mammals, Galeopithecus presents, however, a peculiarity 

 not found in lemui-s, insectivores or bats, except in Pipestrellu-->, in 

 which bat the coracoid, according to Flower,' is sometimes forked. 

 It is worthy of mention that in both Galea]) ithecus and Pteropus 

 the humerus and radius are of the same length in the young ani- 

 mal, the radius liecoming the larger of the two bones only as 

 development advances. 



Patagium and Muscular System. 



One of the most striking features in the organization of Galeo- 

 pithecus is its patagium, or the duplicature of the skin that extends 

 from the upper extremity to the head (propatagium), from the 

 tiimk to both extremities (palatopatagium), an<l from the lower 

 extremity to the tail (uropalagium), covering the whole animal 



' Op. cit., p. 9. 



' Osteology of the Mammalia, 1870, p. 227. 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 243 



like a cloak. While asleep, wliicli is usually diurnal, Galeojnthe- 

 cus, so enveloped, hangs head downward, suspended by its hind 

 claws from the branches of a tree, and in that position strikin.aly 

 resembles Pteropus when in Ihe same condition. The patagiiuu of 

 Galeopithecw is not a mere cutaneous expansion or parachute which 

 serves to break the fall when the animal descends from higher to 

 lower levels, but being supplied with muscles and nerves it enables 

 the animal (to some extent at least) to fly and to guide itself. That 

 most competent observer, WaUace, writes: "Once, in a bright 

 twilight, I saw one of these animals run up a trunk in a rather open 

 place, and then glide obliquely through the air to another tree, on 

 which it alighted near its base, and immediately began to ascend. 

 I paced the distance from the one tree to the other, and foiuid it to 

 be seventy yards; and the amoimt of descent I estimated at not 

 more than thirty-five or forty feet, or less than one in five."^ 



While FropUhteus among lemurs, Petaurus among marsupials, 

 and Fteromys and Anomalurus among rodents, are also provided 

 with a patagimn, the latter differs in all these animals from that of 

 Galeopithecus in being much less developed, supplied with a different 

 set of muscles and nerves, and is more hairy. The patagium of the 

 above-mentioned animals is therefore not homologous with that of 

 Galeopithecus, but rather analogous. On the other hand, the 

 patagium of the Chiroptera in bemg as extensively developed and 

 supplied by the same muscles and nerves is homologous with that of 

 Galeopithecus, even though the calcar or elongated bone or cartilage 

 attached to the inner side of the ankle-joint, which supports the 

 patagium in the Chiroptera, is absent in Galeopithecus. 



While the scope of this communication does not admit of a 

 detailed account of the muscles and nerves of the patagium of 

 Galeoj)ithecus and allied forms, the following may be cited as illus- 

 trations, among others, of how closely the patagium of Galeopi- 

 thecus resembles that of bats and differs from that of marsupials, 

 lemurs and rodents. It has been shown by Leche^ that while 

 the disposition and nerve supply of the Platysma myoides is the 

 same in Galeopithecus and Chiroptera, in Pteromys the muscle is 

 absent. Further, it appears that the occipito-pollicaris or the 

 muscle extending in Chiroptera fro m the occipital bone to the termi- 



* Malay Archipelago, 1869, p. 145 



* Op. cit., pp. 14-18. 




244 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



nal phalanx of the pollex/ aucl the jugalis propatagii exteudiug iu 

 Galeopithecus from the external auditory meatus and malar boue 

 to the finger and palatopatagium are homologous and are supplied 

 by the same ner\'e, the facial. The coraco and humero-cutaueous 

 muscles, among others, agree essentially in their disposition in 

 Galeopithecus and Chiroptera. Fui'ther, the striking fold in the 

 palatopatagium of Galeopithecus, extending to tlie ventral surface 

 of the elbow, is an equally characteristic feature in the patagium of 

 the Chiroptera. It was absent, however, in the two specimens 

 of Pterop'us frugivorous dissected by the author. It should be men- 

 tioned, however, that in the uropatagium of the Chiroptera mus- 

 cles are present that are absent in that of Galeopithecus, such as 

 the cutaueo, pubic, ischio and femoro-cutancous. Ou the other 

 hand, in Petuurm, the muscidar fibres of the patagium are so little 

 differentiated that they cannot be homologized with those of Galeo- 

 jyithecus or Chiroptera, while in Pteromys nuiscles are present in its 

 patagium that have no homology in Galeopithecus or Chiroptera.' 



Such being the relation of the patagium of lenuu-s, marsupials 

 and rodents to that of Galeopithecus and bats, it is readily con- 

 ceivable how, on the theory of descent, the patagium of Pterojnis 

 might be derived from that of Galeopithecus by the simple exten- 

 sion of the upjier extremity, supposing that such extension was of 

 advantage in the struggle for life, and that the variation, however 

 acquired, was intensified in successive generations. While it does 

 not necessarily follow that because two anhnals found in the same 

 part of the world and jjrovided with the same kind of patagium 

 and having similar habits should be genetically related, it seems 

 more probable that Ptei'opvs, the more specialized animal, should 

 have descended from Galeopithecus, the more generalized one, than 

 that the two animals shoidd have acquired sucli characteristic sti-uc- 

 tures and habits independently of each other. 



In regard to the nuiscles of the head and neck, it may be men- 

 tioned that the part of the trapezia* arising from tlie head and 

 neck in lemurs and insectivores is ab.seut in Galeopithecus and 

 bats. The insertion of tlie teres major is quite distinct from that 

 of the latissimus dorsi in Galeopithecus and Chiroi)tera, the action 

 of the former muscle being to reinforce that of the subscapu- 



' jMrtciilester. Myolotjy of the ChcirojUtra, Phil. Trans., 1872, p. 128. 

 ' JIacalister, oji. rit., pp. 14-21. 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 245 



laris which is very large. The flexor sublimus digitoriuu aud 

 pahnaris longus act together iu Galeopithecus and Chiroptera, as is 

 also the case in the hedgehog. The phalanges supporting the 

 claws in Galeopithecu-s are supplied by the extensor digitorum com- 

 munis and extensor pollicis longus, the middle and first phalanges 

 by the extensor digiti secnudas, indicis, and pollicis brevis. The 

 origin of the psoas major is shorter in Galeopithecus and Pteropus 

 than in insectivores and lemurs. The disposition of the tensor 

 fasciae latre, glutseus maximius, and femoro-coccygus muscles are 

 the same in Galeopithecus, Chiroptera aud Chry-sochlori-s among the 

 Insectivora. The sartorius, though present in Galeojiitheciis, 

 Tupaia and lemurs, is absent in Chiroptera, and the gracilis, while 

 double iu Galeopithecus and some Insectivora, is single in Chirop- 

 tera. The biceps is rudimentary in Galeopithecus aud aljseut 

 altogether in Chiroptera. The soleus aud plantaris are absent iu 

 Galeopithecus aud Chiroptera, though lioth these muscles are pres- 

 ent in Lemuroidea. The plantarLs is, however, absent in Tupaia. 

 An extensor brevis digiti quinti appears to be present in Galeopithe- 

 cus, as is also the case in the Chiroptera, and Lons gracilis among 

 the Lemuroidea. 



Nervous System. 



The brain of Galeopithecus having been described and figured by 

 GervaLs* and Leche,'-' the author has but little to add to their 

 descriptions. The most striking feature externally in the bram of 

 the specimen examined by the author, as also noticed by the ob- 

 servei^s just mentioned, is the almost complete absence of the occipi- 

 tal and temporal lobes, they being so little developed that only the 

 anterior part of the nates are covered by the hemispheres. Tlie 

 olfactory lobes are well developed, and but slightly covered by the 

 cerebral hemispheres; their slender tracts expand posteriorily into 

 the hippocampal uncinated gyrus. On the lateral surface of the 

 brain the hippocampal gyrus is separated from the rest of the brain 

 by a deep sulcus, from the anterior end of which proceeds upward 

 a fissure, the so-called principal fissure (Pausch). The dorsal 

 surface of the brain is furrowed by two parallel sulci, the external 

 one very deep, corresponding, probably, to the inteiiiarietal 

 sidcus, the internal much more superficial. 



'Joxirnal de Zoolofjie, T. 1, 1872, p. 445, PI. 31, fig. 5. 

 « Op. cit., p. 48, fig. 29-33. 




246 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



Ou the mesial surface a well-marked calloso-margiual sulcus is 

 present, wliict comes to the surface and furrows the hemisphere as 

 the cross sulcus between its anterior and middle thirds. A small cor- 

 pus callosum with its genu, the sei^tum lucidum and fornix, a ventri- 

 cle containing a thalamus opticus and corpus striatum, an anterior 

 and middle commissure were present, the latter being very much 

 developed. The nates are larger than the testes. The pons varolii 

 isjsmall. The vermis is large, but little separated from the lateral 

 lobes. The floculi are large and lodged in fossie of the periotic 

 bones. The brain of Galeopithecus differs from that of all other 

 mammals in its hemispheres being so small, and \et at tlie same 

 time being so deeply furrowed. In comparison with that of 

 affiliated animals, the brain of Galeopithecus is less developed than 

 that of lemurs, but more so than that of insectivores. There are, 

 for example, sulci present in the brain of the lemurs that are 

 entirely absent in that of Galeopithecus nnd vice versa. The corpus 

 callosum is much more developed in the brain of the former than 

 in that of the latter. On the other hand, the iiumlior and depth 

 of the sulci in the brain of Galeopithecus are far greater than in 

 tlie brain of any insectivore. Indeed, sulci are absent in even 

 large insectivorous brains like those of Tupaia, L'hyncocyon, while 

 the corjjora quadrigemina are uncovered in the latter. Of the 

 mammals with which Galeopithecus has been affiliated it resembles, 

 as rcgarrl cerebral characters at least, the Chiroptera most, the num- 

 ber and disposition of the sulci being the same in the brain of the 

 latter as in that of Galeopithecus, though not so deep. Ou the 

 other hand, the olfactory lobes and corpora quadrigemina are 

 completely covered by the hemispheres in the brain of Pteropus, 

 for example, and the corpus callosum is much more develojjed than 

 in the brain of Galeopithecus. Tlie brain of Galeopithecus is 

 neither that of a lemur, insectivore nor bat, resembling, however, 

 that of the latter more closely than that of either the other two, 

 standing, indeed, somewhat midway between the lusectivora on the 

 one hand and Chiroptera on the other. 



The distribution of the nerves having been thorougldy described 

 by Leche,'" the author will not dwell upon this part of the economy, 

 but will merely call attention to one or two jwints of special inter- 

 est. The facial and third cervical nerves supply the nnisclcs of the 



"• Op. cit., pp. 52-55. 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 247 



jiropatagium ; the spinal accessory supplies the sterno cleido mastoid, 

 levator claviculse and trapezius muscles; the axillary branch of the 

 brachial plexus, muscular fibres of the plagiopatagium ; the 

 internal cutaneous nerve, the humero and coraco-cutaneous mus- 

 cles; a branch of the brachial plexus gives off at the distal inser- 

 tion of tlie latissimns dorsi muscle the radial nerve, and below 

 divides into the median and ubiar nerves. The median nerve 

 perforate.* the supracondyloid foramen and supplies thumb, index, 

 middle and inner side of ring finger ; the ulnar nerve, the outer 

 side of the ring and little fingers and the muscular fibres of the 

 plagiopatagium. The lumbo sacral plexus is situated nearer the 

 tail than in most mammals, the last lumbar nerve supplying the 

 obturator cruralis and ischiadus muscles instead of the nerve emerg- 

 ing in front of the last two lumbar vertebrse as is usual. The 

 cruralis nerve supplies the plagiopatagium; the ischiadic supplies 

 the lu'opafagimn. 



Alimentary Canal, etc. 



The palatal gum is ridged, as in the lemurs. Parotid and 

 submaxillary glands were present, but so small as to readily escape 

 notice. The ducts are, however, proportionally large ; that of the 

 parotid gland crossed the masseter muscle and was more than 

 25 mm. (1 inch) long; that of the submaxillary gland opened into 

 the mouth far forward, and was almost as long as the diict of 

 sterno. 



The teeth of Galeopithecus have been described by Owen," 

 De BlainviUe,'^ and others, and the relation of the deciduous to the 

 permanent teeth more particidarly by Leche. " One of the most 

 interesting facts established by the latter observer is that the teeth 

 erupt late, so that the deciduous teeth and all the molar teeth 

 (except, perhaps, the upper third) are in use at the same time. 

 The most remarkable feature, however, in the dentition of Galeo- 

 pithecus is the well-known comb-like form presented by the crown of 

 the fii-st two incisors of the lower jaw, due to the deep extension of 

 the marginal notches upon the crown, and in resjject to the extent 

 to which this furrowing of the crown is carried unique in mammals. 



" Odontography, 1840-1845, p. 433. 

 '■'' Osteographie. 1841, p. 42. 

 13 Op. cit., pp. 56-01. 




248 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



Each of tliese broad comb-like teeth is implanted by a single conical 

 fang excavated by a pulp cavity which di\'ides into as many 

 canals as there are divisions of the crown, each canal passing up 

 the latter to its extremity. What particular pui-jjose these comblike 

 incisors subserve in Galeopithecus is difficult even to imagine. It 

 is very imlikely that, as has been suggested, the animal iLses them 

 to clean its skin. It is far more probable that ihe peculiar form of 

 these teeth depend in some way upon the nature of the food, which 

 consists of leaves, remains of the latter being found between the 

 teeth, on the tongue and in the oesophagus, and that they have been 

 gradually developed from the tooth of some ancestor in which a 

 slight furrowing of the crown existed and which, being of advan- 

 tage, was gradually intensified in its posterity. In supjiort of 

 such a view it may be mentioned that there is a slight indication of 

 furrowing of the crown in the incisoi-s of the lower jaw in Hyrax, 

 Indri, Tujjaia, Rhyneocyon, Desmodtis and Diphylla among C'hirop- 

 tera. Another interesting peculiarity in regard to the dentition of 

 Galeopitliecus is the fact of the outer incisor of tlie upper jaw 

 having two roots, which is also the case not unfrequently in Petro- 

 dromus and in certain species of Erinaceus. The canine of the 

 upper jaw in Galeopithecus are likewise provided with two roots, as 

 was the casein the extinct Jura.ssic nmnunais, Pantotheria,^' another 

 illustration of the affiliation of Galeopithecus with extinct mamma- 

 lian forms. 



The tongue is dented at the end, the dents supporting round 

 papillse. This pectinated condition of the end of the tongue may 

 possibly be correlated in some way with that of the lower incisor 

 teeth. The imder surface of the tongue is deeply grooved. Two 

 large circuravaUate papellse and foliate papUlje at the sides of the 

 tongue are also present. There is only a slight indication of tlie 

 under tongue, so prominent a feature in lemurs, which Is present 

 also in Tupaia, but entirely ab.seut in Chiroptera. 



The stomach (Plate XII) is very nuieh elongated and drawn 

 out, i-esembling that of Pteropu-s. The mucous membrane of the 

 cardiac part is smootli. That of the pjdoric part lying toward the 

 cardia Ls thrown into deep folds, wliich ran parallel with the long 

 axis of the stomach, while the remaining part of the pyloric mucous 

 membrane is smooth again. The small intestine preser\-es about the 



"Marsb, Amer. Journal Arts and Sciences, Vol. 20, p. 289, 1880. 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 249 



same diameter throughout its whole txteut. Villi are present aud 

 there is an ileo csecal valve. A tapeworm was found in the small 

 intestine, but in such a disorganized condition as not to admit of 

 identification. The cfecum is long and capacious aud puckered up, 

 the miLscidar fibres being gathered together into three well-marked 

 wide bands. A long aud capacious crecum is found as well known 

 in lemurs, and though less well developed in certain insectivores 

 as MacroseeUdes and Rlujncocyon. A CEECum is also present in some 

 species of Tupaia and absent iu others. While usually absent in 

 Chiroptera, it is nevertheless found in a rudimentary condition in 

 certain species of Rhinoiwma and Megaderma. The csecum of 

 Galeopithecus agrees with that of the lemur more than with that of 

 either Insectivora or Chiroptera in being constricted into jiockets or 

 cells. The large intestine, larger than the small one as obtains in 

 certain Herbivora, may be divided somewhat arbitrarily into three 

 parts, distinguished by the disposition of the muscular fibres aud 

 the character of the mucous membrane, the first part consisting of 

 about one-seventh, the second of two-sevenths, aud the thii'd part 

 of four-sevenths of the entire length of the gut. Peyer's patches 

 are found throughout the long intestine, as is also the case in Eden- 

 tata, Rodentia and Insectivora. The length of the alimentary 

 canal (including the oesophagus) and parts of the same apjsear to 

 vary considerably as shown by the following resume, the difference 

 being due possibly to the age of the animal examined : 



Leche'5 Borneo Sumatra Owen'' 



specimen. specimen. specimen, specimen. 



mm. in. mm. in. mm. in. mm. in. 



Length of animal 400 = IG 375 = 15 350 = U 400 = 16 



Length of stomach 58 = 2.3 100= 4 75= 3 



S. int 450 = 18 650 = 26 550 = 22 1,300 = 52 



L. int ■ 470 = 18.8 1,000 = 40 800 = 32 2,275 = 91 



Ciecum 74 = 2.8 225 = 9 175 = 7 25 = 1 



Ratio of length of animal to 



length of alimentary canal . 1 to 2.9 1 to 5.5 1 to 4.8 1 to 9.2 



According to Cuvier," the length of the alimentary canal is 

 about three times the length of the animal. This estimate agrees 

 more closely with the results obtained by Leche and the author than 

 those of Huxley,'* who states that the alimentary canal is six 



'5 Op. eit., p. 63. 



^^Anat. of Vertebrates, 1868, Vol. Ill, p. 430. 



" Anatomie Comparee, 2cl Ed.. 1835, Tome 4, 2d Partie, p. 185. 



^^ Anatomy of Vertebrated Animals, 1872, p. 383. 




250 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



times the length of the auimal, which is not the cme iu any of the 

 first three animals examined. The total length of the alimentary 

 canal in Owen's specimen, not coimting the oesophagus and stomach, 

 exceeds so much that of the other three as to give the impression 

 that possibly Owen's figures are erroneous, due, possibly, to a tj-jJO- 

 graphical error or otherwise. The difference in the length of the 

 csecum in the foui- specimens is very noticealjle, that of Leche's 

 specimen being nearly three times as long as that of Owen's, and 

 those of the Sumatra and Borneo specimens seven and nine times 

 as long respectively. Tlie capacity of the cascum has been stated 

 as being erjual to that of the stomach. While such was no doubt 

 the case in Leche's specimen, iu both the Smnatra and Borneo 

 specimens the capacity of the cajcum was greater than that of the 

 stomach. In the case of two lemurs recently dissected by the 

 author, witli tlie view of comparing the structure of the lemur with 

 that of Galeopithecus, iu one, Lemur alhijroiis, measuring from the 

 snout to the root of the tail 38.7 cent. (15.5 in.), the ctecum 

 measured 17.5 mm. (7 in.) and in the other, Loris iardigradus, 

 37.5 cent. (15 iu. ) long, the crecmn measured 5 cent. (2 in.). 

 The liver is divided into two halves, the riglit lialf being the 

 largest, and subdivided into three lobes. The gall-bladder is small 

 and elongated. The ductus choledochus euters tlie small intestine 

 50 mm. (2 in. ) from tlie pyloric orifice. The pancreas lying in 

 the mesentery is flattened and much branched. Its duct enters the 

 intestine 20 mm. (| in.) from the orifice of tlie cliolcdochus. The 

 spleen attaclied to the cardiac part of the stomach by the gastro- 

 splenic ligament is triangidar in form and presents at the anterior 

 ]Mrt of its median surface a small but well-defined process. 



Respiratory and Circulatory 0rgax.s. 



PLATE X. 



The posterior uares are narrow. The larynx does not present 

 anything of especial interest. The trachea was 100 mm. (4iu.) 

 long, and its rings were complete. The lungs are undivided ; the 

 right lung is slightly larger than the left. Tiiere are three vena 

 cavse, two superior and one inferior. The left superior cava 

 passing l)ehind the heart to empty into the right auricle. A simi- 

 lar disjjosition obtains also in certain Insectivora and Chiroptera, 

 but not in Lcmurnidea there l)eing but one superior vena cava iu 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 251 



the latter. There are three arteries given off from the arch of 

 the aorta, a left subclavian, left carotid and an innominate, the 

 latler dividing into right carotid and right subclavian, the disposi- 

 tion of the great blood vessels being the same, therefore, as in man. 

 In lemurs, the innominate gives off the right subcla\'iau and both 

 carotids ; in the hedgehog among the insectivores the arch of the 

 aorta gives off two vessels, each of which subdivides into subclavian 

 and carotid, while in the bats the vessel subdividing into the two 

 carotids arises from the arch sepai-ately from the subclavians. 



Genito-Urinary Organs. 



PLATE XI. 



The right kidney lies higher, that is nearer head than the left ; 

 only one IMalpighiau pyramid is present. There was nothing excep- 

 tional in the ureters and bladder. The scrotum is well developed 

 and contained the testicle and epidydimis. There was nothing 

 peculiar about the vas deferentia. The spermatic vesicles, per- 

 fectly distinct, were large, extending beyond the base of the blad- 

 der. The prostate gland was also much developed, and embraced 

 the dorsal surface of the urethra. The Cowper's glands were also 

 large. The penis is pendent, and there appeared to be two suspen- 

 sory ligaments. The gland is surrounded hj a circular hump con- 

 sisting of connective tissue, and apparently not connected in any 

 way with the corpora cavernosa. 



The author not having had the opportunity of dissecting a female 

 GaleojnthecKS cannot give any account of the female generative 

 apparatus, and must therefore limit himself to offering a resume of 

 the observations made by Leche upon that part of its economy. 

 According to that author," there is nothing especially noticeable 

 about the ovaries, except that they are enclosed like the hedgehog in 

 wide-mouth peritoneal sacs, their diaphragmatic ligament extending 

 to the posterior surface of the diaphragm. The uterus, however, 

 is bifid, and the two uteri open by distinct openings into the 

 vagina, in which respect GaleopUheeus agrees with Chiroptera and 

 differs from Insectivora. Among the latter it is said that in 

 Tupaia nana there is a slight indication of a double uterus. The 

 external generative organs resemble, however, those of the lemurs, 



i» Op. cit., p. 68. 




252 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



the clitoris beiug concealed by a circular fold of iutegumeut, as 

 obtains also iu Chiromys.'" The teats are pectoral in positiou, aud 

 there are two j)airs. One young only is born at birth, as obtains 

 also in Chiroptera. The placenta is said by Gervais"' to be dis- 

 coid. If such is the case, then Galeopithecus agrees iu the charac- 

 ter of its placentation with the Chiroptera and Tnsectivora, aud not 

 with the Leniuroidea, the placenta in the latter (Propitheeus 

 diadema, Lemur rufipes) being diffuse. '■ 



From the above observations it appears that Galeopitheeics 

 agrees as regards its organization in some respects with the Lemuroi- 

 dea, iu others with the Insectivora and in others with the Chiroptera, 

 and yet again differing iu many respects from all three."' Consid- 

 erable difference of opinion has, therefore, prevailed in the past 

 and still prevails among systematists as to which of these three orders 

 of mammals Galeopithecus should be referred to, or whether it 

 should be regarded as the sole representative of a fourth distinct 

 order of mammals, Graleopithecidse. The species of Galeopithecus 

 upon the study of which this communication was based was called 

 by Liuupeus"* Lemur volans, a name indicating perfectly the view 

 of the great naturalist as to its natural affinities. Pallas," who 

 was among the first to describe Galeopithecus, while admitting that 

 it resembled in some respects the Lemuroidca, considered it as 

 being equally closely related to the Chiroptera. To the latter 

 order of mammals it was referred by Cuvier.-" In moderu times 

 Galeopithecus has been usually regarded as being an aberrant form 

 of Insectivora, that view being held more particularly by the 

 English anatomists, such as Huxley," Flower and Lyddeker.** 

 Notwithstanding the difference of opinion as to the nature of 

 Galeojydhecus held by the above anatomists and othere, all agree 



™II. C. Chapman, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sciences, 1900, p. 423. 



" Op. cit., p. 448. 



''"' Win. Turner, Comparative Anatomy of the Plapenta, 1876, p. 57 ; A 

 Milne-Edwards et Grandidier, Madagascar Afammif'ercs, T. 1, 1875, p. 

 283. 



-' For a resume of these agreements and disagreements, see Leche, 

 op. cit., pp. 72-74. 



'• iSystema Naturm, 1758. Tomus 1, p. 30. 



" Galeopithecii» Volans C'amclUi Descriplus, Acta Acad. Scient. Imper- 

 ialis Petropolitanse, 1780, p. 208. 



"^Regne Animid. 1817, Tome I, p. 30, 



"Anatomy of Vertebratcd Animals, 1873, p. 383. 



" Mammals Living and Extinct, 1801, p. 615. 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 253 



that Tvhile Galeopithecus may resemble or differ from Lemuroidea, 

 Rodentia, Insectivora or Chiroptera, nevertheless it presents so 

 many peculiarities in its organization that it stands by itself. No 

 -one doubts that a Petauris is a mai-supial, a Pteromys a rodent, a 

 Propithecus a lemur, a Pteropus a bat, even though they all are 

 provided with a patagium resembling more or less that of Galeopi- 

 thecus, by means of which they fly or dart through the air. 

 Galeopithecus, however, stands alone ; it is sui generis. To no 

 order can it be referred imless to some hypothetical extinct one, 

 fossil remains of which have not yet been discovered. The most 

 plausible view as yet advanced as to the affinities of Galeopithecus 

 with the mammals with which it has been usually associated is to 

 suppose with Leche"' that there once existed, in remote Mesozoic 

 times, an order of mammals of imgulate character from which 

 have descended Galeopithecus, the Chiroptera, Lemuroidea and 

 lusectivora. Certain facts otherwise ditficult to explam become 

 then intelligible. For example, if the lemurs of the present day 

 have descended from Eoceue lemurs like Adapis, Anaptomor- 

 j)horis, Tomitherum, Hijopsodus, Notharctus,^, generalized forms 

 combining ungulate with quadrumanous charactei"s, certain peculi- 

 arities of their alimentary canal and their uon-deciduou.s diifuse 

 placenta may lie explained as being due to inheritance from remote 

 ungulate ancestors. Further, the fact that the condyle of the jaw 

 is situated nearly on a line with the teeth in Galeopithecus, Chiro- 

 mys, in certain lusectivora and Chiroptera, as in the Dijjlocynodon 

 and kindred mammals, the Pantotheria of Jurassic times^' points to 

 the same conclusion. Accepting the above hypotheses as pro\'ision- 

 ally correct, it follows that the herbivoroas character of the alimen- 

 tary canal of Galeopithecus is due to inheritance from an imgidate 

 ancestor, whereas its patagiimi has been acquired in some unknown 

 way through adaptation. Were it not for the combination of the 

 above characters, Galeopithecus would have become long since ex- 

 tinct in the struggle for life with its contemporaries, the lemurs, 

 iusectivores and bats. 



It appears, at least in the judgment of the author, that Galeopi- 



=• Op. cif., p. 78. 



»» Cuvier, Ouemens Fossiles, 1835, T. 5, p. 460 ; Leidr, Beport U. S. 

 Geo!. Survey, 1873, pp. 75, 86 ; Cope, U. S. Gtol. Sitrvei/' Vol. Ill, 18S4, 

 pp. 233-235. 



"Marsh, Op. cif., p. 335. 




254 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



thecus cannot be regarded as being either a lemur, Lusectivore or 

 bat, but that it stands alone, the sole representative of an ancient 

 order, Galeopithecidse, as Hyrax does of Hyracoidea. While 

 Galeopithecus is but remotely related to the Lemuroidea and lusec- 

 tivora, it is so closely related to Chiroptera, more particularly iu 

 regard to the structm-e of its jiatagium, brain, alimentary canal, 

 genito-urinary apparatus, placenta, etc., that there can be but little 

 doubt that the Chiroptera are (he descendants of Galeopithecus, or 

 more probably that both are the descendants »i a Galeopitheous- 

 like ancestor. 



1 



i 




1902.] natural sciences of philadelphia. 255 



May 6. 

 Mr. Arthur Erwin Brown, Vice-President, in the Chair. 



Seventeen persons present. 



Papers imder the following titles were presented for publication : 

 " Absorption and Secretion in the Digestive System of the Land 



Isopods," by John Raymond ilurlin. 



" Additions to the Japanese Land Snail Fauna, VI," by Henry 



A. PUsbry. 



The Chair having announced the death, on the 2d iust. , of 

 Uselma C. Smith, the following minute was unanimously adopted : 



The Academy has heard with profound regret of the sudden 

 death of its member, Uselma C. Sjiith, whose devotion to the 

 welfare of the society was manifested for more than ten years by 

 an intelligent and accurate attention to its fiuaucial interests as 

 member of the Covmcil, the Finance Committee and the Com- 

 mittee on Accoimts, while his generous encouragement of and cooper- 

 ation in the scientific work of his associates caused him to be held 

 in affectionate esteem. The Academy tenders its heartfelt sympa- 

 thy to his widow and children in their irreparable bereavement. 



May 13. 



Mr. Arthur Erwin Brown, Vice-President, in the Chair. 



Eleven persons present. 



A paper entitled ' ' Descriptions of Two Species of Extinct Tor- 

 toises, one xsew," by O. P. Hay, was presented for publication. 



May 20. 

 Mr. Arthur Erwin Brown, Vice-President, in the Chair. 



Ten persons present. 



A paper entitled " Twenty New American Bats," by Gerrit S. 

 Bliller, Jr., was presented for publication. 




256 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[May, 



May 27. 

 Mr. Arthur Erwin Browx, Vice-President, in tlie Chair. 

 Seventeen persons present. 



Papers under the following titles were presented for publication : 

 " The ilollusca of the Mount Mitchell Region,'" by Henry A. 

 Pilsbry and Bryant Walker. 



' ' Synopsis of the American Martens, ' ' by Samuel N. Ehoads. 



The deaths of Ferdinand J. Dreer, a member, on the 25th inst. , 

 and of Henri Filhol, a correspondent, were announced. 



A Peculiar Hellozoan. — Mr. Howard Crawley remarked that 

 the heliozoan here figured was found on Augast 8, 1900, in water 

 taken from a stagnant, spring-fed pool, near Wyncote, Pa. 



The animal was almost perfectly spherical and showed no altera- 

 tion in form :vhile under observation. Its diameter was about 90 

 microns. Around the central part of the l^ody there was an irregu- 

 lar whorl of large alveoli, and, in addition, a number of elements 

 which ma}' have been either small alveoli or largo colorless granules. 

 There was no distinction between cortex and medidla, the whorl of 

 alveoli lying in a cj'toplasmic matrix, uniform throughout. This 

 matrix was colorless and granular, and closely resembled the 

 eudosarc of an Atmrha. AVithin it was a diatom which still showed 

 a little colored substance, and a number of more or less completely 

 digested plant spores. 



Occupying a slightly excentric 

 position wa.s a large vesicle, 

 having the form of an ellipsoid. 

 The contents of this vesicle were 

 perfectly homogeneous under a 

 magnittcation of 370 diameters, 

 and (if a very pale-green color. 

 It was probal)ly a foo(l-l)all. 



Fri)in the surface of the ani- 

 mal arose a number of minute 

 l)rotopla.smic processe.s. These 

 occurred in clusters, which were 

 se]>arated from each other by 

 ai)proxiniately the same distance 

 a.s that which ordinarily .sepa- 

 rates the typical heliozoan pseudo])odia. It was further to be 

 observed that at the points from which these dusters arose there 

 were breaks in the continuity of the animal's cimtour, .such a.s 

 those which are .«cen at the point where a pseu(lo])odium arises. 

 T\v<i cniiditiKiis which these clustei-s presented are illustrated in 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 257 



the figure. _Iu the one case, the processes were stitf, straight and 

 motionless; m the other, they exhibited lashing movements, each 

 separate process acting independently of the others of the same 

 ckLster. These two conditions passed readily the one into the 

 other, the processes of a given cliu^ter being at one moment 

 motionless and the next m motion. In the figure, these two con- 

 di ions are shown as occurring alternately, but this division is purely 



In addition to these two, a third condition was observed It 

 frequent intervals the processes of a number of clusters became 

 animated by a common impulse and exliibited a ciliary movement 

 Ail the processes of perhaps one hemisphere of the protozoan lashed 

 or beat vigorously in the same direction, causing a rapid rotation of 

 ttie body and a progression from one place to another This 

 phenomenon was seen a nimiber of times, and in each case the 

 activity appeared to involve the processes of only one side of the 

 body at once. It was impossible, however, to determine whether or 

 not this was always the .same side. 



The presence within this animal of a partly digested .liatom 

 seenis o warrant regarding it as belonging fo the Rhizopoda 

 (barcodma J. The _ spherical form and alveolar protoplasm furnish 

 reasons for considering it a heliozoan. Of the several genera of 

 fresh-water Heliozoa, it comes closest to Actinophnjs. The sicruifi- 

 cation ot the curious phenomena observed is problematical, hnt the 

 observation appears to be worthy of record in that it slu.ws the 

 readiness witli which pseudopodia and fiagella may change into each 



Mr. G. B. Boulenger, of London, was elected a correspondent. 

 The following were ordered to be printed : 



17 




258 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [May, 



DESCRIPTIONS OF SOME NEW P0LYN0ID5:, WITH A LIST OF OTHER 

 POLYCH^TA FROM NORTH GREENLAND WATERS. 



BY J. PERCY MOORE. 



The Polychseta of ihe Arctic regions have been so thorouglily 

 studied and described by a host of able Scandinavian, Dutch, 

 German, English and other European zoologists that tlie fauna 

 ranks as one of the best known in the world. Although the shores 

 of Greenland have been repeatedly ransacked, especially by the 

 zoologists attached to various e.xploring expeditions, the waters 

 washing the north and northwest borders of that island have been 

 searched much le-ss thoroughly than those to the south and east. 



From the standpoint of geographical distribution it has, there- 

 fore, seemed desirable to publish a list of the species contained in 

 three small collections from this region which I have recently had 

 the opportunity of studying. The first consists mainly of well- 

 known species of Polynoida; collected by Dr. Benjamin Sharp, in 

 the shallow waters of McCormick Bay, in July, 18itl, while a 

 member of tlie jiarty accompanying Lieutenant Peary lo Green- 

 land. The second embodies the results of a few dredge hauls, also 

 in McCormick Bay, made by the Peary Relief Expedition, under 

 the command of Prof. Angelo Heilpriu, in August of the following 

 year. This collection is remarkable from the circumstance tlial, 

 while it contains but twelve species, eleven of which are Polynoida;, 

 four are well characterized new forms. It indicates the richnes.s of 

 the polynoid fauna at this particular spot, and recalls the results of 

 Hensen's study of the annelids of the Norwegian North Atlantic 

 Expedition to the regions about Spitzbergen and Nova Zembla. In 

 the foUowing list this collection is indicated by the letters P. R. E. 

 These two collections belong to the Academy of Natural Sciences 

 of Philadelphia. The third collection was made under the direc- 

 tion of Prof. Ortmann of the Princeton University Exi>edition to 

 North Greenland in July and August, 189H. It is more extensive, 

 both in the number of si^ecies represented and in the extent of ter- 

 ritory covered, which overlaps McCormick Bay, Itoth north and 




Ifl02.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 259 



south, aud extends from Godhavn to Cape Sabine, though few col- 

 lecting stations were made south of Cape York. Some thirty species 

 are comprised iu this collection, mostly of forms well known from 

 more southern waters; but several of them haye not been previously 

 recorded from North Greenland. None of the species are new, but 

 it is noteworthy that several of the polynoids differ materially from 

 the more typical representatives of I heir species which occur on the 

 coasts of North America, of Norway, Scotland, etc. Although one 

 cannot safely draw general conclusions from the small amount of 

 material at hand, there seems to be a tendency for the elytra to 

 become rougher and more spinous. In the list of localities, the 

 numerals preceded by the letter O. indicate the dredging stations of 

 this expedition. The collections of the Academy also include the 

 few Polychsela remaining of those brought back from southern 

 Greenland by Dr. Hayes iu 18(i0-fil, a list of which was published 

 by Stimpson in the Proceedings of the Academy of Natural Sciences 

 of Philadelphia for 1863. These also are enumerated in the fol- 

 lowing list. 



Gattyana cirrosa (Pallas) Mcintosh. 



The elytra are rougher than those figured by ^Malmgren and 

 Mcintosh, the numerous papillse being rough, horny, and spinous 

 at the tip. The specimens from Caj^e York are covered with the 

 " ochreous deposit" mentioned by Mcintosh, which appeare to be 

 derived from the bottom soil. McCormick Bay, P. R. E. ; Barden 

 Bay, O. 45, 10-40 fath. ; Cape York, O. 34, 10 fath. 



Gattyana amondseni (JIalmg.) Mcintosh. 



JlcCormick Bay, Dr. Benjamin Sharp ; Payer Harbor, 0.17 

 16 fath. 



Gattyana senta sp. nov. 



This species has the broad, thick-set form oi Harmothoe imbricata, 

 but is more depressed. Owing to the very spiny eMra and the 

 dense bundles of dorsal bristles it presents a remarkably shaggy 

 aspect. The type specimen is 22 mm. long, exclusive of the ceph- 

 alic and caudal appendages, and has a maxinmm width between 

 the tips of the longest setse of 8.5 mm., of which the body itself 

 forms about two-fifths. There are thirty-six setigerous somites. 

 As viewed from below the body, exclasive of the parapodia, in- 

 creases in breadth to X, from which it decreases very gradually to 




260 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Mav, 



XXX, and more raivdly to the anal .somite. Tlie fifteen pairs of 

 elytra are borne on the same somites a.s in ■ Harmothoii imbricata and 

 allied forms. 



The head (prostomium) is about two-thirds a.s long a^ broad, with 

 the greatest width at about the middle. Anteriorly it is divided 

 into two broadly rounded lobes by a median fissure which reaches 

 as far a.s the posterior eyes; laterally it is strongly and jwsteriorly 

 slightly convex, but normally the posterior margin is concealed by 

 a median nuchal lobe of the succeeding somite. There are no 

 anteriorly produced cephalic peaks. 



Eyes, two pairs, conspicuous, black, circular, the posterior only 

 visible from the dorsum. The anterior the larger, and situated on 

 the veutro-lateral faces of the head about their own diameter from 

 the anterior margin. The posterior dorsjil close to the nuchal 

 margin and sejjarated by an interval of four times their diameter. 



Exclusive of its ba.^, which arises from the frontal fissure, the 

 median tentacle has a length of about two and one-half times the 

 width of the head, with a sublerminal enlargement and a filamen- 

 tous tip of about one-fifth its length. Except on the latter it bears 

 rather long scattered cilia. The lateral tentacles arise from short 

 and slender ceratoi)hores from the anterior surface of the licad at a 

 lower level than the median tentacle, but, in the absence of ante- 

 rior peaks, not very sharply demarcated from the cephalic lobes. 

 Their diameter is about two-tliirds, and length slightly more than 

 one-half of the median tentacle. They are slender and taper con- 

 tinuously from ba.^e to a])ex, which is tipped by a delicate filament. 

 A very few cilia similar to those on the meilian tentacle arc present. 

 Palps robast, with a basal diameter of rather more than one half 

 (he width of the head and a length about e(jual to the me<lian 

 tentacle. They taper rapidly, but not uniforndy, to the acute tip, 

 which bears a short filiform appenrlage. Xunieroiis short, truncate 

 cilia are home on five iongitudiiuil lines, of .wiiich two are nearer 

 together on the medial aspect and the others respectively dorsal, 

 external and ventral. Tcntacula'- cirri similar to the notoj)odial 

 cirri, ciliated like the meilian tentacle; the doi-sal is slightly the 

 longer. 



Somite I is very narrow dorsjdly, but bears an uniL<ually promi- 

 nent median lobe which overlaps the head between the posterior 

 eyes. The nephridial paj)ilhe become distinct mi IX. and condnue 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 261 



fo the posterior eud. They are short and directed doread. Anal 

 cirri, one pair, similar to dorsal cirri, l)ut more slender. 



lu the typical parapodimu (PI. XIII, fig. 1) the ueuropodium and 

 uotopodium are distinctly separated ; the former is much the larger 

 and angular in outline, whereas the latter is rounded. Both termi- 

 nate in acicular lobes, of wliich the neuropodial is the longer. The 

 acicula are remarkable for the unusual length of the free, project- 

 ing end, which in the ease of the neuropodial equals one-third of 

 the length of the longest setae, and is slender and curved. 



The dorsal cirri spring from conspicuous cylindrical bases. They 

 are larger than the median tentacle, with less of a subterminal 

 enlargement and shorter (ilameutous tip. The numerous cilia are 

 of two kinds ; the largest have a length of two to three times the 

 diameter of the cirrus, have a uniform diameter and are confined 

 to the distal half, excluding the filamentous tip which bears no 

 cilia ; the smaller cues are enlarged at the eud and are more widely 

 distributed proximally. The ventral cirri are about one-fourth of 

 the length of the dorsal, slender, awl-shaped, and bear a very few 

 short clavate cilia. 



The first elytra are circular and fixed nearly at the middle ; the 

 next succeeding ones ovoid, with a slight anterior emargination at 

 the point of contact with the preceding peduncle; at the middle of 

 the body they are reniform, while posteriori}- they again approach 

 the circular form. They are loosely attached aud easily displaced 

 and are of a soft membranous texture, with very hard horny 

 spines (PL XIII, fig. 2). Around the entire uncovered margin is 

 a fringe of I'ather widely separated cilia which become elongated 

 externally. With the exception of a small antero-internal margin 

 the entire surface is spinose, the spines as usual increasing in size 

 and complexity and decreasing in number from the anterior and 

 internal toward the posterior and external border. The first are 

 merely low cones. They, are succeeded by others with bifid sum- 

 mits which soon become larger. Passing obliquely across the middle 

 of the scale in its longest direction Ls a broad band of prominent 

 bifid spines, the apices of many of which are again divided. Most 

 of the spines ou the posterior half have, on the other hand, a quite 

 distinct character. Here they are more remotely distrilnited and 

 are mostly trifid, with broad bases and each limb usually bifid at the 

 tip. Nuniei-ous other forms occur. Some have a central spine aris- 




262 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



ing from the middle of the three diverging ones, others expand into 

 au irregular disk, from which project from four to seven points 

 of different sizes and shapes. But the most remarkable spines are 

 those which protect the extreme posterior and external border of 

 the scale. These are very large and tree-like in form, and most 

 frequently branch in a fimdamentally trifid, ternate plan, though 

 some of the branches may be bifid or even simple. The final 

 divisions are always acutely pointed. \ 



Set£e of the dorsal and ventral fascicles are of approximately equal 

 length and thickness. The former are somewhat stouter basally, but 

 the latter are terminally, and their apices form a nearly regular out- 

 line, beyond which only one or two of the dorsalmost neuropodial setae 

 project. The very numerous notopodial sette are arranged in many 

 rows and radiate in all directions, but chiefly laterad aud caudad, 

 overlapping the following parapodium. Their form is characier- 

 i.stic. The anterior dorsalmost ones (PI. XIII, fig. 3) are short, 

 stout and strongly curved. They are about two-thirds free, with 

 the inserted part suddenh' contracted and narrow, and the thickest 

 region at al)out the middle of the free portion. Tlicre is a very 

 •extensive spinous region, in which the rows of capillary spines are 

 rather clo.se and long. The short, smooth end, which is equal in 

 length to the space of three or four of the terminal rows of spines, 

 is peculiar in having an abruptly recurved or hooked tip (PI. XIII, 

 fig. 6). Toward the ventral end of the anterior row the setie 

 ll)ecome less curved, more slender and the terminal hook less abnipt. 



Posteriorly the setre of succeeding rows become much longer, 

 relatively more slender, and almost straight. A typic4il one is 

 exhibited in PI. XIII, fig. 4. Such setse, wliich are very numer- 

 ous, have the following characteristics: They are slender and ta|K'r 

 regularlv from the thickest ]ioint in the jiroximal third to the acute 

 tip, wliich is slightly curved and sometimes suggests the hook of the 

 dorsal setse by the faiutest indication of a recurvature. The spiuoas 

 region is less extensive than on tiie dorsalmost seltr, :uid the spines 

 are exce.<sively fine, except toward the free end, whei\> the else- 

 where very close long rows become broken up into short detached 

 j)lale«, which alteriuite on the opposite sides of tl»e seta. Proxi- 

 mally they again become irregular. In some ca.<ei' the.*e spinous 

 rows actually encircle the setae, but usually there are two iiitervak 

 ■on opposite margins, that on the concave side being occupied by a 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 263 



distinct longitudinal groove in which short transverse ctenoid plates 

 are situated. The non-spinous basal portions of these setse and 

 the smooth interval on the convex border are covered with numer- 

 ous minute granulations (PI. XIII, fig. 8) which become less 

 numerous and finally disappear distally. 



The neuropodial setse (PI. XIII, figs. 9-13) are less character- 

 istic. They are arranged in eight or nine horizontal rows and are 

 less numerous and rather stouter than the notopodials, notably at 

 the distal end, where their enlarged spinous portions contrast con- 

 spicuously with the attenuate tips of the former. From ventral to 

 dorsal the spinous tips increase in length much more rapidly than 

 the entire free portion of the setoe, these regions being as one to five 

 or six in the ventral, and as one to three in the dorsal. The num- 

 ber of spinous rows is large, but varies only from twenty-three in 

 the ventral to twenty-seven iu the most dorsal. Distally the teeth 

 are coarse and the rows rather widely separated, proximally they 

 are fine and the rows crowded. The smooth tips are rather long, 

 without accessory processes aud ou typical setie strongly hooked and 

 sharp -pointed. Probably as a result of wear, the tips of the prom- 

 inent dorsal neuropodial set£e are blunt. Ou the second and third 

 paraporlia the neuropodial setse are intermediate in form between 

 the typical neurojiodial and notopodial setse just described; their 

 tips are straight and slender, aud the spines very long and few in 

 number. The first foot bears a tuft of four or five of the noto- 

 podial type. At the posterior end the seta show modifications from 

 the type similar to the anterior. 



Pigment, if originally present, has aliaost entirely disappeared. 

 A general pale-yellow hue results from the dull yellow of the spines 

 on the elytra, the hay color of the notopodial, aud the rich amber 

 of the neuropodial setse. 



Two specimens. McCormick Bay, P. R. E. 



Gattyana oiliata sp. nov. 



In ventral aspect the body is rather slender and nearly linear, 

 and tapers very gently from about X to the posterior end. Dor- 

 sally it is strongly convex. The type consists of two imperfect 

 individuals, one consisting of twenty-one anterior somites, the 

 other of thirteen posterior somites, together constituting nearly the 

 total number. These measure respectively 30 and 12 mm. long, 

 so that length of a complete example of this size would probably be 




264 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



about 45 mm. The width of the body alone at X Ls 4.8 mm., 

 to the ends of the parapodia 11 mm., and to the tips of the setse 

 1()..5 mm. Apparently tlie elytra number fifteen pairs, borne on 

 the iLsual somites. Segmental papiJlse begin on Y and soon become 

 long and slender, but instead of pointing freely caudad, as in 

 Hannotho'e imbricata and allied forms, they are directed dorsad 

 between the bases of the parapodia. 



The head is broad, its length being about three-fourths of its 

 greatest width, which is about one-third of its length from the an- 

 tei'ior end. Its lateral margin is almost angiUated; the anteriqr 

 fissure is deep and wide, and the ceratophore of the median tentacle 

 occupies it in such a way as to give the impression of ha\ang 

 pushed apart the two lobes of the head. These lobes are rounded 

 anteriorly and have no distinctly produced peaks. 



The eyes are black, circular and widely separated. Those of the 

 posterior pair are less than their own diameter from the posterior 

 margin of the head and so far apart as to be partly laterad in posi- 

 tion. The anterior are slightly larger, separated from the extreme 

 anterior margin by less than their own diameter, and latero-ventral 

 in position. 



Median tentacle absent, its ceratophore of large size and marked 

 by a conspicuous chocolate-colored baud. Lateral tentacles ari.^e at 

 a level (juite Ixlow the doi-sal surface of the head lobes and partly 

 overlapped by the ceratophore of the median tentacle. They have 

 a length of about one and two-thirds the width of the head, are 

 sleuder and tajwring, with a brown jtigmcuted sul)terminal enlarge- 

 ment and a rather long filiform tip. The .single palpus remaining 

 on the tyiie specimen is an elongated, almost whip-like structure 

 eight times as long as the head. It bears a single line of cilia on 

 the medial side, while much shorter clavate cilia are scattered over 

 the general surface. Its cuticle is remarkably iridescent, a condi- 

 tion not found elsewhere in this worm. Frontal ridge broad and 

 low. The tentacular cirri are missing. 



Typical parapodia are long and slender, the neurdpodium promi- 

 nent and bearing near its ba.se the small lobe-like notopodium. The 

 doi-sal border of the former is straight and slopes gently downward, 

 to pass without angulation into the dorsal edge of tlie acicular lobe, 

 the base of wliich is met abruptly by the sharply uplunuMl ventral 

 margin. The aciculum projects but slightly. 




1902] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 265 



The uotopodiiim is merely a dorso-anterior lobe supported by a 

 sleuder aciculuni, which lies close to the neuropodial aciculum, but 

 termiuates far short of it. The large base of the dorsal cirrus, 

 with its double wiug-like lobes, further overshadows the notopodium. 

 The cirrus itself has the usual form and bears numerous slender 

 cilia, which, ou the dorsal side, have a length nearly equal to the 

 diameter of the cirrus and about four times that length veutraUy. 

 The ventral cirrus is about one-fifth the length of the doi"sal. The 

 firel ventral cirriLs (somite II) is, however, as usual larger and 

 formed like the doreal cirri; moreover, its ventral surface bears 

 numerous truncate cilia as long as one-half its diameter. 



Although few in number and arranged in only eight very definite 

 rows, the neuropodial setae, because of their large size and rich 

 golden color, are very conspicuous. They inci-ease in length to the 

 sixth row, but their spinous ends continue to elongate to the most 

 dorsal (8th) row. All are stout and have abruptly enlarged ends 

 (PI. XIII, figs. 17-19) with long, slightly cun-ed, and rather 

 bkmt-poiuted, smooth tips. The spinous region is remarkably 

 short, parlicularly on the most ventral set», which bear only four 

 paire of coarse teeth and seldom a trace of lateral fringes. The 

 middle seta; have six or seven pairs of such spines with short 

 lateral fringes, and the dorsal setse as many as fifteen or twenty 

 rows of spines, of which the basal ones are very fine. The smooth 

 tips of (he.'e doreal se(£e are relatively and absolutelv shorter as well 

 as more slender. 



The notopodial setse (PI. XIII, figs. 14-16) are of a pale hay 

 color and rather lustreless. They are extremely numerous and 

 arranged in many nearly horizontal ranks, from which they spread 

 fan-like in a nearly horizontal plane outward and slighth- back- 

 ward, so that these worms present none of that shaggy appearance 

 which characterizes some Polyuoida. These sette are so long, so 

 numerous and keep so weU together, that the parapodiaare scarcely 

 visible from above. This species is distinguished from other species 

 of the geuiLS by the fact that all of the notopodial seta°, without 

 exception, bear long capillary tips. The longer middle and ven- 

 tral setse are spinous for about oue-lhird of their exposed length 

 and become excessively slender toward the gently curved tip, which 

 bears a smooth, tapering and flexible filament about one-fourth of 

 the length of the spinous portion. The very numerous rows of fine 




■266 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [^lay, 



spines are about equidistant fur the entire length, but increase in 

 height to near the tip where they again diminish. The bristles pre- 

 sent a very strongly serrated profile, especially at the point where 

 the tapering shaft has a diameter less than the height of the pro- 

 jecting spines. The dorsalmost and ventralmost sette are shorter 

 and bear much shorter capillary tips ; the former are also strongly 

 curved and the latter straight and very slender. 



Somite I has the parapodium supported by a single stout acieulum 

 which passes between the bases of the dorsal and ventral tentacular 

 cirri. It bears a tuft of four or five notopodial cirri of the extreme 

 dorsal pattern. II liears a nearly normal tuft of nolopodial and a 

 small group of long-spined and slender neuropodial set;p. 



A single elytron (the right one of somite VIIj was found in ntu 

 on the type specimen, and is represented on PI. XIV, fig. 20. It 

 is narrow and strongly reniforin, with the external half broader than 

 the internal. Close to the anterior emargination, but rather to its 

 external side, is the area of attachment. Closely placed cilia 

 e.xtend all around the posterior and external margin and increase 

 in size ai.d fretjuency from within outward, while lierc and there 

 one or two of the larger cilia arc replaced by nnich smaller ones. 

 Coarser cilia arc scattered sparingly over the greater part of (he 

 postero-external region, and, like the marginal ones, are longer 

 externally. 



With the exception of a very narrow antero-intcrnal marginal 

 area the entire surface bears numerous horny pa])illte which, as 

 usual, increase in size slightly, but decrease in number toward 

 the |>osterior margin. In this ca.se the papilla? or spines are of 

 largest size and most numerous in a narrow area along the middle 

 of the scale. Along this area their summits are distinctly thick- 

 ened and bispiuose. A line of tall, slcinlcr cylindrical ones with 

 prominent bifid tips runs from the point of attachment of the scale 

 to the outer margin, and a few similar ones are scattered elsewhere. 

 Just in front of the posterior nnirgin is a rowof seven prominent 

 conical papilhe with broad ba-scs and truncate roughened summits. 

 These are also covered with a horny cuticle, but appear to be softer 

 than the small spines and papilla;, like which they are of a pale- 

 brown color. 



Three specimens. McCormick Bay, P. R. 11 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 267 



Lagisoa multisetosa sp. nov. 



Like other species of Laglsca this is slender, ^vith the widest part 

 of the body far forward at somite VI, behind which it diminishes 

 gently, while the anterior end is broadly rounded. The type speci- 

 men consists of the twenty anterior somites and measures 11 mm. 

 in length, 3.2 mm. in width of body at VI, 5.3 mm. to tips of 

 fee) , and 8 mm. to tips of the setse at the same place. It will be 

 observed that the parapodia are here relatively short. 



The head is three-fourths as long as wide, with a gently convex 

 posterior border, lateral margins prominently bulged at the middle, 

 and the anterior fissure deep, with a narrow furrow continuing it 

 back to about the middle of the head. The two halves of the 

 head are produced forward around the base of the middle tentacle, 

 and the prominent peaks in which their outer sides end are widely 

 separated from the latter. The frontal ridge is strong and high. 



The posterior eyes are situated close to the posterior margin of 

 the head and sejiarated by four times their diameter. They are 

 black, circular and look upward and slightly outward. The ante- 

 rior eyes are of the same shape and color, but about twice the size 

 of the posterior. They are situated relatively far back, not more 

 than their own diameter in advance of the posterior pair, but on 

 the veutro-lateral surface, though they may be seen through the 

 tissue of the head from above. 



Of the cephalic appendages the median tentacle is absent, but its 

 deep chocolate-colored base remains. The lateral tentacles have a 

 length about equal to the width of the head, and are slender and 

 tapering, the distal half being filiform. They arise entirely below 

 the level of the median tentacle and their bases aie almost in con- 

 tact in the median line. The palps are about two and one-half 

 times the length of the lateral tentacles, taper to a very acute tip, 

 and bear two dorsal lines of very small cilia, with a few of the 

 same kind scattered over the surface. The dorsal tentacular cirrus 

 about equals the palp in length ; the ventral is slightly shorter. 

 Both taper from the base to a very slight subterminal enlargement 

 bearing a short terminal filament. Short truncate cilia are spar- 

 ingly scattered over the surface, being rather more numeroas just 

 below the subterminal enlargement. 



Although the setse are long the parapodia themselves are short, 

 the tenth, for example, being somewhat less than one-half the width 




268 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [^laj', 



of the body. In shape the foot is easily distinguished from that of 

 Lagisca rarigpina by the much smaller uotopodium. The neuro- 

 jiodium is broad, with a prominent acicular lobe, from tlie end of 

 wliieh, above the projecting aciculiuu, is produced a long, slender, 

 tentacle-like process, quite as loug as the lobe itself. The noto- 

 podial acicular lobe bear.s no such process, and is nnich shorter. 

 The dorsal cirri resemble the tentacular cirri, except for the longer 

 filiform tips and longer, more numerous and clavate cilia, ^'eu- 

 tral cirri slender, reaching nearly to the end of the neuropodial 

 acicular lobe and bearing a few \ery short, nearly globoid cilia. 



Only the anterior elytra are present, and these have the normal 

 arrangement as far as the tenth pair on somite XIX. The first is 

 circular, five or six succeeding paii-s (PL XIV, fig. 29) reniform, 

 and the others ovate-renifoi"m. They are thin, membranous, 

 translucent and fairly adherent. The area of attachment is small, 

 elliptical and very much nearer to the anterior and external borders 

 than to the posterior and internal. A rather wide and clearly defined 

 area internal to the hilum and along the anterior border is en- 

 tirely free from spines. Anteriorly and internally the spines are 

 low and nipple-shajied, but over most of the surface are sharply 

 conical, becoming elevated and acute in certain regions, notably ii 

 a broad irregular band which passes across the middle of the scale 

 in its long direction. Enlarged spines are also scattered singly or 

 in groups here and there over the surface toward tlie posterior and 

 external borders. Twelve or fifteen prominent soft papilla; (PI. 

 XIV, fig. 31 ) of various heights and witli rounded summits ajijx-ar 

 just in advance of the posterior margin, and a few similar ones on 

 other parts of the surface. Marginal cilia ajipear to be absent, liut 

 a few large ones are scattered over the surface in the external third. 

 On the first scale soft papillae extend more than half-way around 

 the margin, and an area of particularly .strong spines occurs above 

 the area of attacliment. 



The neuropodial setse (PI. XIV, figs. 32-34) are loug and slen- 

 der, with very long and but slightly enlarged spinous regions. The 

 smooth tips are very short; tiie principal point rather strongly 

 curved, but not hooked; the accessory process far DUt, running first 

 parallel to the principal point and then diverging fmm it, very 

 slender, sharp-pointed and h)ng. Tiie.se setse are very fragile and 

 but few are found wiili the tips intact. The spines are long and 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 269 



fine, except at the base. The number of rows varies from nhieteen 

 on the most ventral setffi to twenty-four or twenty-five on the middle 

 nnd thirty-one on the most dorsal. The neuropodial set re arc 

 arranged in numerous rows, there being at least twelve subacicular 

 and six supraacicular series. 



The notopodial seta; (PL XIV, figs. 35, 36) are also rather long 

 and slender, gently and regularly curved and tapering to the rather 

 acute points. As usual in Lagisca, the rows of spines are long, 

 numerous and close, the spines themselves being fine and a few in 

 the middle of each row enlarged. 



The neuropodial selfe of II differ very little from the normal types 

 in typical parapodia, except for their smaller size and longer spines. 

 I bears no ueuropodials, and in the specimen examined only two 

 notopodials, which have the characteristic form. 



The elytra are pale mottled l)rown, the seta; all a pale but glisten- 

 ing hay color. The dorsum of the body is light brown, with a 

 yellowish line across the anterior end of each somite and the ante- 

 rior somites each with a median spot of dark brown. The bases of 

 the parapodia are pale yellowish, the cirri white with dark rings 

 above and below the enlargement. The head is light-colored and 

 iridescent with brown cloudings, the base of the tentacles choco- 

 late color, and the palps buff. The under surface of the body is 

 pale and iridescent. 



One specimen. McCormick Bay, P. R. E. 



Lagisca rarispina (Sars) Malmg. 



The anterior pair of eyes is borne on the anterior face of 

 prominently outstanding lobes, which give to the head a very char- 

 acteristic form not sliown in any of the published figures. These 

 ocular lobes are situated slightly posterior to the middle of the 

 head, which is very nuich narrower anterior than posterior of them. 

 A specimen 12 mm. long has only seven somites posterior to the 

 last elytraphore, whereas one of 43 mm. has fifteen. 



ISIcCormick Bay, Dr. Benjamin Sharp; Northumberland Island, 

 O. 11, lO-l") fath. ; Olridir Bay, O. 29 and 49, 7-25 fath. 



Actinoe sarsi Kiiib. 



McCormick Bay, P. R. E. ; Granville Bay, O. 39, 30-40 fath. ; 

 Olridir Bay, O. 49, 15-20 fath. 




270 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



Harmothoe imbricata (Linn.) Malmg. 



This species occurs in considerable numbers and from many 

 localities, most abundantly in material gathered in shallow water. 

 The examples from McCormick Bay are of large size, and the setae 

 are nearly black instead of the usual rich amber color; the elytra 

 also are marked with nearly black spots. Many varieties, both in 

 color and structural features, are represented. The elytra vary 

 from those without any trace either of horny papillae or soft mar- 

 ginal papillae, to very rough ones with numerous hard prominences 

 easily visible under a magnification of five diameters and soft 

 papillae so close together that they crowd one another in the mar- 

 ginal rank. 



McCormick Bay, Dr. Sharp; Godhavu, Dr. Hayes, Godhavn, O. 

 2, 8 fath. ; Saunders Island, O. S), 5-10 fath. ; Barden Bay, O. 45, 

 10-40 fath. ; Orlidir Bay, O. 49, 15-20 fath. ; Robertson Bay, 

 0. 52, 5-15 fath. ; Foufke Fjord, 0. 54, 5 fath. ; Sarkak, O. 57, 

 9 fath. 



Harmothoe (Laenilla) glabra (Malmg.). 



McC-ormick Bay, P. R. E. and Dr. Sharp; Northumberland 

 Island, O. 11, 10-15 fath. ; Barden Bay, 0. 45, 10-40 fath. 



Harmothoe (Evanei impar (Johnston). 



The single specimen from McCormick Bay is typical. In this 

 the soft marginal papillae have the rounded form shown by ^lalm- 

 gren, not the truncate and lobulated appearance of Mcintosh's 

 figures. The hard papillae are mostly elevated and divided at the 

 summit into two short, blunt divergent proce.<ses. The other speci- 

 mens are referred doubtfully to this s[x;cies, from typical examples 

 of which they differ in the following details: The median and 

 lateral tentacles and the tcnlacuhir cirri have the tapering and 

 filamentous portion relatively longer than in Mcintosh's figure; the 

 scales are rougher, with sj)inous-tipi)ed horny papillae and few 

 cilia, of which the longer ones have bulbous emls ; four cxamiiles 

 lack the large, soft papilla; altogether, while the fifth one bears a 

 single minute one on one scale only ; (he neuroiwdial setae have (he 

 spinous (ip longer and the accessory process nearer to the extreme 

 end. 



McCormick Bay, Dr. Sharp; Saunders Island, O. 9, 5-10 fath. ; 

 OlridirBav, O. 49, l.-)-20 fath. 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 271 



Harmothoe (Eunoa) nodosa (Sars) Jlalmg. 



Two examples approach nearer to Eunoa cerafedi in many 

 respects. The distinctness of these two species has been already 

 called in question, but is generally upheld by the highest authori- 

 ties. The scales exhibit the dense external ciliation of E. nodosa, 

 but are rougher even than rerstedi. The large papillje are spinous 

 at the apex, and many even of the smaller ones, especially toward 

 the outer margin, bear a number of conical or bifid divergent 

 spines. Around the posterior margin, and more or less elsewhere, 

 many of the papillse become low, rounded and mound-shaped, and 

 bear numerous small spinas in clnsters. Anteriorly the rouo-hness 

 of the scales increases and a detached scale, which, being circular, 

 is regarded as the firet, bears around its entire margin a narrow 

 band of large, irregularly globoid bosses, produced into numerous 

 processes, each of which bears a tuft of spines at its summit. A 

 smaller group occui-s at the middle of the scale and papilljs of 

 smaller size are scattered between. All of these papilla; are hard 

 and horny and supported on horny basal plales of various and 

 irregular shapes. 



The ventral setoe have the form figured by IMcIntosh, and the 

 doi-sal also resemble his figure of E. nodosa, except that the short 

 tips ai-e sculptured in much the fa.shion of the smaller notopodial 

 setse of Rarmothoe tnmcata. They resemble the apex of the green 

 fruit of Lireodendron or a winter leaf-bud, but are less reo-ular 

 and the smaller ventral on&s especially have fewer scales or rido-es. 

 The ventral setse of II resemble Mcintosh's figures of (rrstedi 

 rather than nodosa. 



Several discrepancies appear in the published accounts of the 

 species of Eunoa. JIalmgreu figures the smooth tips of the noto- 

 podial setse of nodosa as the longer of the two species ; Mcintosh 

 both describes and figures the reverse, but neither indicates the 

 sculpturing. Mcintosh in one place' (p. 292) describes segmental 

 papillre in Eunoa, in two other places (pp. 291 and 293 ) he states 

 that they are absent. In these specimens they are nearly as well 

 developed as in Harmothoe imbrieata, for example. 



The head and its appendages conform almost exactly to Mc- 

 intosh's figure. The anterior eyes are quite dorsal in position, .situ- 



' Monograph of British Annelida, Part II. 




272 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF May, 



ated well posterior aud hut little farther separated than the posterior 

 pair. 



lu many respects these specimens resemble the figures of Har- 

 mothoe scabm (Oersted), especially those of the scales given by 

 Wire'n.- The anterior elytra of Polijnoa {Harmotho'e) idandiea 

 Heusen also approach the character of these, but the entire absence 

 of those belonging to the posterior region renders it impossible to 

 determine if they possess the peculiar ragged appendages present 

 in Hansen's species, in which also the first elytron is reniform. 



McCormick Bay, P. R. E. 



Harmothoe (Eunoa) trunoata sp- nov. 



This well-marked species is known only from a single imperfect 

 specimen, consisting of the head with twenty-four somites. The 

 elytra, dorsal cirri, all but one tentacular cirrus and the tentacles 

 are missing. Viewed from beneath the body is truncate anteriorly, 

 widest at Y or VI, and with nearly parallel sides, narrowing very 

 gently posteriorly. The third and fourth somites together form a 

 broad swollen area which bounds the mouth posteriorly. Rather 

 prominent but short, projecting uephridial papilUe begin at VI, 

 and continue to XXIV at least. Scars for the attachment of 

 elytra are present on the usual somites back to XXIII. 



The head is slightly broader than long, with a well-marked 

 median anterior fissure and slightly produced, obtusely pointed 

 peaks. A small posterior nuchal lobe is inseparably connected with 

 the head, but by analogy probably belongs to the following soinite. 

 The two paii-s of eyes are black, circular and of equal size. The 

 posterior are close to the posterior margin, and are separated by a 

 si)acc of five times their diameter. The anterior are placed later- 

 ally on the widest region of the head, and distant about twice tluir 

 diameter from the tips of the cephalic i>eaks. Tiicre is notlung 

 peculiar in the place of origin of the teuUides. The [.alpi are 

 about five times the length of the head, with a swollen basal half, 

 a slender distal half and a short terminal filafiient. 



In the tvpical foot the ncuropodium luis nearly straight outlines 

 (erminating at a nearly right angle, with a projecting acicular lobe. 

 The acicuium i)rojects but little and its end is suddeuy contractc<l 

 in a peculiar way. The notoiKxlium lies a little t o the anterior of 



» Vtga-Expeditioneiia Velenikapliga lakltaseUcr, II. 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 273 



the plane of the ueuropodium, but scarcely overlaps it. Its acicu- 

 lum projects farther than the neuropodial, like which it is suddenly 

 narrowed at the end. 



The neuropodial sette (PI. XIV, figs. 21, 22) are grouped in 

 eight rows, of which five are ventral, two dorsal and one opposite 

 to the aciculuiu. They are of large size, the longest doi-sal ones 

 about equaling the longest notopodials in length. Like the latter 

 they are stout. The spinous portion is relatively short, but there 

 is the usual increase in length dorsad. On a typical seta from the 

 middle of a bundle the five or six terminal pairs of spines are of 

 large size, little or not at all divided and with uo lateral fringes. 

 They rapidly diminish in size and become finely ctenoid as the 

 fringes appear, and soon become continuous with the latter. Prox- 

 imally the spines become very fine and the rows crowded. Ou the 

 dorsalmost set£e the niuuber of fine rows increa.«es and the transition 

 from the coai-se to fine is much more gradual. The nmiiber of 

 spinous rows is about fourteen in the ventral, nineteen ou the mid- 

 dle and thirty on the doi-sal set£e. On all of the neuropodial setse 

 the smooth tip is long, simple, strongly hooked and sharp-pointed. 

 On the ventral setse it nearly equals in length the spinous region and 

 even on the doi"sal ones is about one-third as long. 



The largest of the notopodial setre (PI. XIV, figs. 23 and 25) 

 are remarkable for their size and truncate ends. They are long, 

 stout, slightly curved and bear for fully one-half of their exposed 

 portions numerous close and long row's of excessively fine teeth, 

 which are frequently worn away over considerable areas. Except 

 near the tip they extend nearly around the shaft. The tip has a 

 peculiar frayed-out appearance, as though the fibres of the setre 

 had separated and spread apart. The peripheral layer is a whorl 

 of elongated scales surrounding a fibrous bundle, from the midst of 

 which a central point appeal's more prominently. Around the base 

 of these scales is a very dense fringed whorl. The very large set* 

 are few in number, not more than eight or ten in a bundle. 



The most usual form of the seta tip is shown in fig. 27. In such 

 the outer scales embrace the central style more closely, so that a 

 rough, blunt point is formed. Somewhat similar are the tips of 

 the strongly curved antero-dorsal setse (PI. XIV, figs. 24 and 26), 

 but these have very short scales. The slender, sharp-pointed an- 

 terior ventral setis (PI. XIV, fig. 28) approach more nearly the 

 18 




274 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [MaV, 



usual type of notopodial setse foimd among the polynoids, but eveu 

 these have the points somewhat divided. On the extreme anterior 

 feet all of the dorsal setre are blimt pointed, having much the 

 appearance of the conventional architectural pineapple. The first 

 foot bears a group of five or six setre of tliis tyj)e and no neuro- 

 podials. The ueuropodials of the second foot are slender, tapering 

 and provided with very long spines. 



One specimen. McCormick Bay, P. R. E. 

 Melaenis loveni JIalmg. 



McCormick Bay, Dr. Sharp ; one specimen. 



Pholoe minuta (Fabr.) Malmg. 



Godhavn Harbor, O. 2, 8 fath. 

 Phyllodooe oitriua Malmg. 



Northumberland Island, 0. 11, 10-15 fath. ; one specimen. 



Phyllodooe greenlandioa Oersted. 



Barden Bay, U. 45, 10-40 fath. ?ome fine examples, the largest 

 measuring 390 mm. 

 Phyllodooe mucosa Oersted. 



Foidke Fjord, O. 54, 5 fath. Three specimens, all of which 

 exceed Oersted's original examples in length. The largest measures 

 94 mm. 

 Autolytus longisetosus Oersted. 



Cape Chalon, O. 25, surface. 

 Nereis pelagica Linn. 



Godhavn, Dr. Hayes. 



Nereis zonata Malmg. 



Granville Bay, O. 39, 30-40 fath. ; one sjx'cimeu. 

 Lumbrioonereis sp. 



McCormick Bay, P. R. E., 10 fath. A fragment of a large 

 individual of an undetermined species. 

 Northia conohylega iSars) Johnson. 



This species nuist be extremely abundant at some points, as at 

 Olridir and Granville Bays. The characteristic tube.< are flattene<l 

 and of an elongated rectangular form, mea.suring up to 80 mm. 

 long, 10-12 mm. wide and 3 nun. thick. The lumen i.s about 

 twice as wide as high, and is completely fiile<l by the worm. Judg- 

 ing from the fact that attached tubes of Spirorhv>, Serpula, 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 275 



together with bryozoans, timicates and hydroids are confined 

 chiefly to one side, it is probalile that they are fixed to the bottom, 

 resting on one of the flat s-urfaces. The material of which they 

 are composed differs with the character of the bottom. Those from 

 Olridir Bay are uniformly formed of coarse grains of red, black, 

 yellow and colorless sand, with here and there a small lamellibrauch 

 shell or a fragment of a larger one. The Granville Bay examples, 

 on tlie other hand, are composed of flattened pieces of black or 

 occasionally gray shale, with numerous large pieces or even entire 

 shells, bits of sea urchin tests, etc. Many of the bits of shell are 

 very thiu and translucent (like Anomia), permitting the form of 

 the worm to be distinctly seen. In many cases the fragments (jf 

 shale are as much as 15 mm. in diameter, and the pieces of shell 

 are still larger. 



Granville Bay, O. 39, 30-40 fath., and O. 40, 20-30 fath. ; 

 Olridir Bay, O. 49, 15-20 fath. 



Scalibregma inflatum var. corethura Mich. 

 Whale Sound, O. 41, surface. 



Flabelligera affinis Sars. 



Cape Y(n-k, (_). 34, 10 fath. 



Flabelligera infundibularum Johnsou. 



This species, recently described by H. P. Johnson from the Puget 

 Sound region, is represented by one specimen which differs slightly 

 from the Pacific coast examples. The capillary sette have a greater 

 number of cross nodes, the infundibular sette appear to be some- 

 what shorter, and the stalked sense organs have a different form, 

 which, however, is probably merely the result of a different state 

 of preservation. 



McCormick Bay, Dr. Sharp. 



Axiothea catenata Malmg. 



Barden Bay, O. 45, 10-40 fath. 

 Cistenides granulata (Linu.) Malmg. 



Godhavn Harbor, 0. 2, 8 fath., and O. 3, beach; Sarkak, O. 

 57, y fath. 



Cistenides hyperborea .Malmg. 



Barden Bay, 0. 45, 10-40 fath. 




276 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [^lav, 



Amphitrite cirrata Miiller. 



Barden Bay, O. 45, 10-40 fath. A few tubes of an Amphitrite 

 were also dredged at Foulke Fjord, O. 12, 35 fatli. 



Nicolea arotioa Malmg. 



Very abundautly represented in tlie collections from Northum- 

 berland Island. ^lelville Bay, O. 6 ; Northumberland Island, (). 

 11, 10-15 fath. 



Scione lobata Malmg. 



tirauville Bay, O. 39, 30-40 fath. ; Barden Bay, O. 45, 10-40 

 fath. 

 Axionice flexuosa (Grube) Malmg. 



Saunders Island, O. II, 5-10 fath. ; Granville Bay, O. 39, 30-40 

 fath. 

 Ttelepus circinnatus (Fabr.) Malmg. 



Next to Harmothoe imbricata, this species occurs most fiei|ii<'iitly 

 in the collections of I)r. Ortmanu. It is not represented in the 

 material from JlcCormick Bay. 



Ciodhavn, Dr. Haye^; Godhavii Harbor, O. 2, 8 fath. ; off ("ape 

 Chalou, O. 27, 35 fath. ; Foulke Fjord, O. 32, 14 fath. ; Gran • 

 ville Bay, O. 39, 30-40 fath.; Olridir Bay, O. 49, 15-20 fath., 

 Robeitsou Bay, O. 51, 35-40 fath. ; Karnah, O. 50, 30-40 fath. 



Chone infundibuliformis Kriiyer. 

 Olridir Bay, (). 29, 7-25 fath. 



Serpula sp. 



Tubes of a small Serpula were found attached to the tubes of 

 Northia conchylega from Olridir Bay and other places. 



Spirorbis granulatna (Linn.) MOrch. 



Found only attached to the tubes of Northia conchylega and 

 Thelepm circinnatus, and esj^cially abundant on the former in 

 (Olridir Bay. A number of examples were, noticed in which the 

 last turn of the tube w:is elevated and free. The thick tulte is 

 sometimes marked with one, sometimes with two, longitudinal angu- 

 lar ridges; these l)ecome quite evident in young individuals of 

 .5 mm. diameter. 



Foulke Fjord, (). 32, 14 fath.; Granville Bay, (J. 39, 30-40 

 fath. : Olridir Bav, O. 49, 15-2(1 fath. 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PniLAUELPHIA. 277 



Spirorbis verruca (Fabr.) Morch. 



Found only with the last, than which it is less common, attached 

 (o the tubes of Northia. Specimens measuring 7 to 8 mm. across 

 the spiral were found. 



Spirorbis spirillum (Linn.) Morch. 



In addition to the topical open spiral form there have been re- 

 ferred to this species numerous examples which, while having, so 

 far as could be determined, identical characters of setre, operculum, 

 etc. , have the tube usually coiled in a flat spiral of smaller size 

 and less pellucid character. This form occurs abundantly iu com- 

 paratively shallow waters, attached in the manner of Spirorbis 

 borealis, from which the tube is distinguished at ouce by the reverse 

 direction of its coil, to Laminaria and other resistant thalloid alga;. 

 When attached to a clean surface of the alga the plane of the spiral 

 is always perfectly flat ; when, however, as frequently occurs, the 

 annelid is associated with an incrusting growth of bryozoans, the 

 coil of the former immediately becomes elevated and open, approach- 

 ing the typical form which is found in deeper waters a.«sociated 

 with hydroids and branching bry(«oaus. As noted by Jliehaelseu, 

 this species reaches a much larger size than has been recorded by 

 Leviusen and other students of Arctic Polychseta. One of the 

 largest examples, occurring in the collections from Olridir Bay, 

 measures j8.5 mm. in height of the spiral. The typical form is 

 represented from the following localities: South of Cape Alexan- 

 de-, O. 26, 27 fath. ; Olridir Bay, O. 49, 15-20 fath. ; Karnah, 

 O. 50, 30-40 fath. ; Robertson Bay, O. 51, 35-40 fath. The flat 

 form occurs as follows: Upernavik, (). 4, 5-10 fath.; Saimders 

 Island, O. 9, 5-10 fath. ; Northumberland Island, O. 11, 10-15 

 fath. ; Robertson Bay, O. 51, 5-15 fath. ; Foulke Fjord, O. 54, 

 5 fath. 



Spirorbis vitreus (Fabr.) Morch. 



A single example attached to the tube of a Northia conchylega 

 from Foulke Fjord, O. 39, 14 fath. 




278 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



EXPLANATIOX OF PLA.TES XIII AND XIV. 

 Plate XIII. — Oattyana senta : 



Fig. 1. — Outline of the right parapodium, without seXx, of X ; posterior 

 aspect. X 14. 



Fig. 2.— Right elytron of XIII. X 14. 



Figs. 3-.5. — Dorsal, midille and ventral notopodial setse, respectively, 

 from the left parapodium of X. 12 mm. have heen cut out of the drawing 

 of the middle set;v to permit of its being shown entire on the same scale 

 as the others. X 75. 



Fig. 6.— Tip of dorsal notopodial ; left, X. X 335. 



Figs. 7 and 8. — Tip and basal portion of middle notopodial, respec- 

 tively ; left, X. X 335. 



Figs. 0-11. — Tips of ventral, middle and dorsal neuropodial selte, 

 respectively, from the left parapodium of X. X 75. 



Figs. 12 and 13. — Extreme tips of the ventral and middle setae shown 

 in figs. 9 and 10 respectively. X 335. 



Giittyann ciliatn : 



Figs. 14 and 15. — A dorsal and a middle notopodial seta from X. x 

 75. 



Fig. 16. — A portion of a typical notopodial seta. X 335. 



Figs. 17-19.— Tijis of ventral, middle and dorsal neuropodial set;t, 

 respectively, from X. X 75. 



Plate XIV, fig. 20.— .\. typical elytron of Gattyana cUiuta. VII, 

 right. X 14. 



IlarmotJioe (rxmcala. — All set* are from the right foot of X : 



Fig. 21. — Typical middle neuropodial. X 75. 



Fig. 22. — A portion of the same seta. X 33.}. 



Fig. 23. — A large middle notopodial. X 75. 



Fig. 24. — A dorsal notopodial, entire. X 75. 



Fig. 25. — Til) "fa large middle notopodial. X 335. 



Figs. 26-28. — Smaller dorsal, middle and ventral i^otopodials respec- 

 tively. X 335. 



Larjiaca miiltisttosa. — All setre are from the right parapodium of X ; 



Fig. 29. — A typical anterior elytron, x 14. 



Fig. 30. — A small portion of the middle of the dorsal surface of the 

 same! x 75. 



Fig. 31. — A small portion of the jiosterior margin of the same, X 75. 



Fig. 32, <i. b and t. — Ventral, middle and dorsal neuropodials. X 75. 



Figs. 33 and 34. — Tips of ventral and dorsal neuropodials. X 835. 



Fig. 35. — A middle notopodial. X 73. 



Fig. 36.— Tip of the same. X 335. 



t 



I 



r 




1902.] NATURAL SCIEXCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 279 



THE CLASSIFICATION OF THE ALEYEODIDa:. 

 BY T. D. A. COCKERELL. 



The American species of this homopterous family have l)eeu 

 well treated by Quaintauce (Tech. Bull., 8, Div. Ent., Dep. 

 Agric. , 1900); ia the followiug essay an attempt is made to 

 classify aud catalogue the species of the world. 



ALEYRODID^ Westwood, 1840. 



Adults of both sexes with two pairs of wiugs, which are roimded 

 apically aud a})pear more or less mealy ; the edges of the wiugs are 

 ornamented with a distinct scidpture or little bunches of bristles. 

 Anteunaj simple in form, seven-jointed ; first two joints short and 

 stout. Legs six, all well developed. Eyes often constricted in the 

 middle, or even completely di\'ided. Tarsi with two claws. Size 

 always small. 



Eg(i elliptical, with a short peduncle (fig. 9). 



Larva oval, with short, stout legs. 



Pupa quiescent, oval, often with a waxy fringe. Margin vari- 

 ously sculptured (figs. 4, 5, 6). Abdomen sometimes with large 

 secretory pores (fig. 4). On the dorsal surface of the abdomen is 

 an orifice, known as the vasiform orifice, provided with a more or 

 less rounded flap, the operculum, and a usually elongate narrow 

 two-jointed structure, the lingua (fig. 3). 

 Adult with the median vein of wings forked ; pupa with the lingua 



large, Aleurodicus. 



Adidt with the median vein of wings not forked ; pupa with the 



lingua usually small, Aleyrode.s. 



ALEURODICUS Douglas. 



Aleurodicus Douglas, Ent. Mo. Mag., Ser. II, Vol. 3 (1892), p. 33. 



All the species belong to the warmer parts of America, except A. 

 holmesii from Fiji, which was, I suspect, introduced from America 

 with the Psidium on which it feeds. The adults are easily recog- 

 nized by the venation of the wiugs (fig. 1), although Aleyrodes 




280 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[:^Iay, 



often lias a fold which simulates a branch. The submedian vein 

 has usually been considered a branch of the median, but it appears 

 to have in every case a separate origin. The pupa of Akttndicus 

 is rather easily recognized by its large lingua, and the nearly uni- 

 versal possession of very large secretory pores along the sides of the 

 abdomen. The margin of the pupa is often provided with hairs at 

 rather distant intervals. 



1. cocois (Curtis). 



2. anome Morgan. 



3. dxigesii Ckll. 



4. iridescens Ckll. 



5. mirabiliB (Ckll.), figs. .3, 4. 



6. minimus Quaint. 



7. ornatus Ck\l., fig. 1. 



8. pulvinatus (^lask. ). 



9. alliadmus (Quaint. ). 



10. per-seiE (Quaint. ). 



1 1 . holmnii (Mask. ). 



12. jamaicemis n. sp., fig. 2. 



Aleurodiciis jamaicensii was collected by the writer at Kingston, 

 Jamaica, in 1893. The pupa is small (hardly li mm. long), with 

 vertical walls, margin resembling that of pulvinatus ; color hi-ight 

 yellow, with a brownish dorsal cloud, and a diamond-shaped black 

 patch just anterior to the vasiform orifice. Other characters are 

 shown in fig. 2. 



siil,^-. DIALEUHODICUS n. siit«. 



l'ii|)a without any profuse secretion or wax rods ; no large secre- 

 tory pores; adult with short spotted wings, the branch of the 

 median vein more basal than usual. Type Aleurodicus cocherelli 

 Quaintance, from Brazil. 



ALEYRODES Latmll. 



Aleyrodcs Latreille, Hist. Nat. CrustacfSs et Insectes, Vol. XII 

 (1804), p. 347. 



Type A. proletella (L.). 



The species average smaller than Aleurodicus and the median 

 vein is not forked. The pupio often have a lateral fringe of waxy 

 rods or ribbons. As at present understood, the genus is cosmo- 

 politan. 



1. aeeris (Baer. ). 



2. avellance Sign. 



3. brassiac Walk. 



4. caprem -Sign. 



(1) Pal.barctic Species. 



o. ca)pini Koch, 

 (i. dubia Hegeer. 

 7. fragariiK Sign. 



8. fraxihi Sign. 




1902.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



281 



9. immacuhila Hegeer. 



10. jeUnckli Fraueuf. 



11. lonieerce Walk. 



12. phillyrea Halid. 



13. prenanthig (Schr.^. 



14. prolefella (L.). 



15. quercOs Sign. 



16. rihium Dougl. 



17. ruhi Sign. 



18. rubicola Dougl. 



19. gjnneie Dougl. 



20. vacclnit Kunow. 



21. xylodei Westhoff. 



22. lauri S'lsu. 



(2) Ethiopian Species. 



23. aspamgi Ijev:ig. (Natal.) 24. bergiiSigu. (jNIauritius. ) 



(3) Oriental Species. 



(4) Ar.«TRALASIAN SpECIES. 



34. sacchari ]\Iask. F. 



35. lecanioides (^lask.). 

 Syn. papillifer Mask. 



36. «,«p/f«u' Mask. N. 



37. aMrea(Mask.). N. 

 Syn. melicyti Mask. 



38. fagi :Mask. N. 



39. simplex Mask. X. 



40. banksiw Mask. A. 



41 . cerata Mask. N. 



42. comata Mask. F. 



N. 43. croceafa Mask. A. 



44. decipiens Mask. A. 



45. fodiem jMask. N. 



46. liirsuta Mask. A. 



47. limbata Mask. A. 



48. nigra ^lask. A. 



49. stijphelice^Lask. A. 



50. T-signata Mask. A. 



Those marker! A. are from Australia; X., from New Zealand, 

 and F., from Fiji. 



(5) Neotropical Species. 



51. phalmwides Blanch. 



52. tinceoides Blanch. 



53. aepim Goeldi. B. 



54. filicum Goeldi. B. 



55. cochereUi Vou Ihr. 



56. fioccosa Mask. J. 



57. fumipennis Hempel. 



58. goyabce Goeldi. B. 



B. 



B. 




282 PROCEEDING 



59. horrida Henipel. B. 



60. parva Hempel. B. 



61. stellata Mask. J. 



62. tracheifer Quaint. M. 



63. vaj>orariornm Westw. 



67. strnthanthi Hempel. B. 



A. vaporariorum occurs in hothouses iu Europe and the United 

 States, but is supposed to have originated in Brazil. In the above 

 list, B. = Brazil, M. ^Mexico, J. = Jamaica. 



(6) Neakctic Species. 



68. 

 69. 

 70. 

 71. 

 72. 

 73. 

 74. 



75. 

 76. 



77. 

 78. 

 79. 

 80. 

 81. 

 82. 



abnormk Quaint. 

 ubittilonea Hald. 

 (icackf Quaint. 

 asanimis Shimer. 

 aureocinda Ckll. 

 berbericola Ckll. Fig. 

 c'ltri R. and H. (prob 



trod, from China). 

 corni Hald. 

 coronata (Quaint. 

 perileuca Ckll. 

 melanops Ckll. 

 eri()ero)iti.i Mask. 

 Jitclii Quaint. 

 floridensis Quaint. 

 forbesii Ashni. 

 Svn. aceru Forbes. 



83. geltdinom Ckll. Figs. 5, 9. 



84. graminicola Quaint. 



85. incompicua Quaint. 



86. mori Quaint. 



87. mori arizonensk Ckll. 

 8. 88. nephrolqndii Quaint. 



ill- 89. nicotiana ilask. 



90. pergandei Quaint. 



91. 2>(umosa Quaint. 



92. pyrolcv G. and B. 



93. queretii'-aqiuiticce Quaint. 



94. rolj'sii Quahit. 



95. nibonnn Ckll. 



96. fpimoidrs Quaint. 



97. i'ana6i7w Quaint. Fig. 7. 



98. inttata Quaint. 



A. mori arizoneiuis is the form on Citrus in Arizona, described 

 iu Science Gossip, 1900, p. 366. 



Sulv. ASTEKOCHITON MaskeU. 



AsterocJiiton Maskell, Traus. Xew Zi-alaud Inst, for 1878, Vol. XT, 

 p. 214. 



Type A. aurea. Adult with second joint of antenn» nnich 

 longer than first; pupa broad, with four radiating bands of circu- 

 lar markings; vasiform orifice elongate. A. leeanioidcs, descrilied 

 also under Asterochiton, does not belong to the subgenus as here 

 defined. 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 283 



Subg, DIALETJEODES u. subg. 



Type ^. citri; also iucludes .4. eugenicB and A. aurantii. Adult 

 with second joint of anteunK much longer than first ; eyes not com- 

 pletely divided; male abdomen with a large ventral waxy tuft on 

 emerging from pupa. Pupa not fringed; vasiform orifice broad, 

 lingua short; three radiating grooves, one posterior and two antero- 

 lateral, terminating peripherally in a star-shaped opening. 



i^ubg. TRIALEUEODES n. subg. 

 Type A. pergandei. This name is proposed for an American 

 series (including pergandei, variabilis, Jitchi, ruhonan, vittata, 

 erigerotdis, etc.) in which the apical segment of the lingua is 

 strongly crenidated. The posterior end of the vasiform orifice is 

 often bifid. 



Subg, TETRALEUEODES u. subg. 



Type ^4. perileuca. Pupa extremely denize, black, with a fringe 

 of radiating waxy ribbons. Vasiform orifice shovel-shajied. 

 Margin of pupa very regularly and strongly beaded; dorsum 

 keeled. Includes also A. melanops. Occurs on the upper side of 

 leaves of Quercus. Southern California and Texas. 



EXPLANATION OF PLATE XV. 



Fia;. 1. — Aleurodkus ornatus (imago). — A. Venation of upper wing. 

 B. Claw. C. Margin of wing. 



Fig. '2.-~Aleurodicits jamaicensis. — A. Vasiform orifice, etc. B. mar- 

 gin of pupa. C. Side view of pupa. D. Aljdomiual pore. 



Fig. 3. — Aleurodicus mirabilis. — Diagram of vasiform orifice, etc. 



Fig. 4. — Aleurodicus mirabilis. — A. rupa, sliowiug involuted margin. 

 B. Edge of pupa ^involuted). C. Abdominal pore. 



Fig. 3. — Aleyrodes gelalinosa. — Margin of pupa. 



Fig. 6. — Aleyrodes vmsonioides. — Margin of pupa. 



Fig. 7. — Aleyrodes varinbilis. — Vasiform orifice, etc. 



Fig. 8. — Aleyrodes berbericola. —A. Margin of pupa. B. Margin of 

 wiug. 



Fig. 9. — Aleyrodes gelatinosa. — Egg from body of female. 




284 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [^^^y. 



ABSORPTION AND SECRETION IN THE DIGESTIVE SYSTEM OF 

 THE LAND ISOPODS.' 



BY JOHN RAYMOND MLKLIX, PH.D. 



T. Introduction. 

 II. JIaterial and metliods. 



III. Description of the disjestive system. 



1. Gross structure, (1) The intestine ; (3) Glands. 



2. Microscopical structure. (1) Growth of the intestine ; 



(3) Orii^in of the typhlosole ; (3) Syncytium — i. C'ylo- 

 phism, b. Xucleus, (na) Form, {hh) Siructure ; (4) Moult- 

 injr — 11. Chanjies in the cells incident to moulting. 



3. Summary of structure. 



IV. Feeding e.Kperiments, 1. Effects of starvation. 



V. Absorption of jiroteids. Table I, giving changes in the cells ; 



Table II, jirecipitation of proteids. 

 VI. Function of the typhlosole. 



VII. Absorjitiou of carbohydrates. 



VIII. Absorption of fats. 



IX. Secretion in the hepatopancreas — a. Relation of secretion to feed- 

 ing. 

 X. Summary and conclusions. 



I. Introduction. 



W'liile the teuduiicy at this day is to approach phy.-ii 'logical 

 ■ problems chiefly froni the experimental aud the chemical standpoints, 

 there is yet need of inaiiy inorpliological observations to siipplcinent 

 these more ultimate researches. Tiie chemical liistory of the trans- 

 formation of foods into tissues has advanced considerably beyond 

 the niiirplioloLrical history, because tiiitil recently no means has been 

 at hand for identifying tliem by morphological methoils. Such 

 determination has been begun by Fischer (1)^ in his studies on the 

 effects of fixing fluids on various proteid bodies and their deriva- 

 tives. 



Proteid foods liavc often been traced to the intestinal absorbing 

 cells, and have been identiKed in the blood of many animals after 

 having traversed the cells; but their course in pa.ssing tiirough the 

 intestibal epithelimn and their relation to the varioni> cell constitu- 

 ents have been little known. With the hope of throwing some 



'Contribution from the Zoological Lalioratory of the University of 

 Pennsylvania. 



'Numerals in parenthesis refer to bibliographical list at the end of 

 the paper. 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 285 



light ou these aud kindred problems:, the present study was under- 

 taken at the suggestion of Prof. E. G. Conklin, iu the Zoological 

 Laboratory of the University of Pennsylvania. 



It is a pleasure to express at the outset my gratitude to Prof. 

 Conklin, both for turning over to me a subject ou which he had 

 made many observations and for rendering great assistance by 

 suggestion and direction throughout the course of the work. 



II. Material and ^Methods. 



Several features combine to make the digestive organs of the land 

 isopods especially favorable for a study of this kind. The digestive 

 glands are simple tulies made up of a single-layered epithelium, 

 which is bathed by the coelomic fluid. I rom this the cells derive 

 directly the substances elaborated into the ferments; and the secretion 

 discharged at their luniinal surface is poured into the anterior end 

 of the intestine, where it is mixed with the food, partially at least, 

 as it enters. Tliat portion of tlie intestine which performs an ab- 

 sorptive function likewise possesses a single-layered epithelium 

 composed of very lai'ge cells. Without going into details here, it 

 is enough to say that the size of the cells is equaled, sof ar as is 

 known to the writer, by those of a similar absorbing organ of only 

 one other animal, the larva of Pit/clioptera contaminata (2). In a 

 word, the plan of organization which is shared by the digestive sys- 

 tem of all Arthropoda, has here been carried (Hit witli diagram- 

 matic simplicity. 



Whether we regard the organization of the intestine as an adap- 

 tation to the mode of life or the feeding habits as an adaptation to 

 the organization, there is plainly a very nice relation between the 

 two. Microscopical examination of the intestinal contents shows 

 that in proportion to the quantity of digestible matter a very large 

 part is wholly indigestible. Bits of dead leaves, wood fibres aud 

 various other masses of thick- walled vegetable cells, some clearer, thin- 

 walled cells, which I take for hyphal cells of fungi, are among the most 

 commonly observed substances.'' In addition there are iu the intes- 

 tine numerous crystalline bodies, doubtless of an inorganic nature, 

 the skeletal remains of insects, and micro-organisms. But the 



' I have frequently seen pill-bugs eating edible mushrooms and have 

 oliserved that they shun poisouous species. 




286 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [^laV, 



scanty proteid content of such food is compensated for by the very 

 efficient absorbing surface. 



Judged by the number of pellets of waste, the quantity of food 

 eaten seems prodigious. An animal kept in a clean dish on a 

 piece of moist bark will cast from twenty to fifty in twenty-four 

 houi-s. The number is about the same for all the species. Brought 

 fresh from the natural state and deprived of food the number cast 

 in a single night (about fifteen hours) averages, for a large number 

 of counts, between five and six ; in the next tweniy-four houi-s the 

 average number decreases to three. (This decrease is explained by 

 the fact that only the anterior half of the " mid-gut" is provided 

 with strong musculature. In the absence of muscles strong enough 

 to empty the posterior portion, aud with no fresh food to crowd 

 back the remainder, its progress is very much slower ; some of it, 

 indeed, may lodge just anterior to the sphincter for as long as two 

 or three weeks, where it may be recognized lis a little black nia.ss in 

 the region under the first abdominal segments. ) The anterior por- 

 tion is emptied, as can be seen by holding the animal up to the 

 light, during the first night. Hince then five or six pellets repre- 

 sent the contents of the anterior half of the " mid-gut," the animal 

 must eat, in the course of twenty-four hours, an amount which fills 

 the intestine from two to four times. 



The several indigenous species of terre.strial isopods ai"e equally 

 favorable. Those which I have used are Porcellio ^pinieoniis, 

 Porcellio scaber, Onincwi a-selltts, Phlloscia vittata aud Cilifticui 

 convexity. 



A reserve stock of animals, renewed from time tx) time, has been 

 kept in the Univer.>^ity Vivarium surrounded by the natural objects 

 among which they were foimd — bits of bark, dead leaves, etc. 

 Placed in large glass evaporating dishes, covered with a glass plate, 

 on the under side of which was kept moist filter-j)aiH;r for preserving 

 the ])ri)|)(r humidity of the atmosphere, the animals behaved in 

 every respect :is in the natural state. lu the fwding ex|X'riments, 

 to be described later, it was necessary fii-st to empty the intestine of 

 all food. The metlind coiumouly employed for thig was merely to 

 isolate animals in dishes covered as above described and cleaned 

 once or twice claily. Xo difficulty was exjierienced in keeping the 

 animals alive in this way so long as star^•atiou was not too pro- 

 longed, provided only the atmosphere was kept moist by daily 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 287 



renewal of water in the filter-paper, aud care was takeu to leave uo 

 large drops of water iu the bottom of the dish.' 



Several observers have remarked the prolonged starvation which 

 the isopods can withstand (Ide (3), Conklin (4), McMurrich (5), 

 Schonichen (6) ). No attempt has been made here to determine the 

 ultra- maximum time; but iu the couree of the study an isolated ani- 

 mal has frequently been starved for more than a mouth. When 

 several are starved together iu the same dish, the time of absolute 

 deprivation seldom reaches a mouth ; some are sure to moult, or to 

 become greatly weakened, or to die from some cause, when the legs 

 and soft parts are then eaten by the others. While this does not 

 necessarily terminate the fast for all, it does make impossible that 

 determination of the fasting period which is often desirable. The 

 only way to obtain this datum with certainty is to isolate the animals. 

 For this purpose small flat-bottomed vessels of various dimensions, 

 preferably all of the same height, so that they could be covered with 

 the same sheet of glass and filter-paper, have been employed. 



Various methods of removing the intestine have been tried. 



*Tlie latter precaution was necessary to guard against drowning. 

 When by cliance the breathing appendages are covered witli water, if 

 the animal is m its natural habitat or on filter-paper or other object 

 which will take up the water readily, it very rapidly frees itself by 

 dipping the abdomen, just as one might remove an extra drop of ink 

 from a fountain pen by touching it to an absorbing surface. Kept on 

 clean glass, however, the drop is not always removed, and the animal 

 may die from suffocation or over-exertion, or both. 



A greater difficulty was experienced in cases of prolonged starvation 

 -from cannibalism. Although in the main vegetable fee<lers, or scavengers 

 at most, and particularly inotfensive toward other species of animals, 

 these Crustacea will eat one another, if driven by hunger to this extremity. 

 While some signs of offensive attack have been seen, such as a vigorous 

 nip by one animal at the dorsum of another, plainly sufficient to inflict 

 considerable pam, it would be unsafe to regard an act of this kind as a 

 deliberate attempt to kill. Moreover, very young animals have been 

 kept alive in the same dishes wuh adults through a month or six weeks 

 of starvation. Individuals isolated in small stender dishes have often 

 been seen to moult aud to survive the ordeal just as in the state of 

 nature. But if one moult (Sec. lii, (-1) ) in a dish with other starving ani- 

 mals or IS greatly weakened by its efforts to remove a drop of water, it 

 may fall an easy victim to the hunger of its starving companions. Tlie 

 cannibalism to, be guarded against is, therefore, of an accidental sort, 

 and arises from an instinct to keep the intestine full. The same instinct 

 prompts the animal in similar circumstances to eat anything it can 

 swallow, although it is not intended by this to imply that no choice is 

 exercised in the selection of its natural food., ilention will be made in a 

 later section of the care necessary to induce animals which have been 

 fasting a long time to eat the pure foods with which it is desirable to feed 

 them. 




288 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [^lav, 



Dissecting under fluids iu the ordinary manner is uot satL*factory 

 because of the small size of tlie animals. McMurrich's (5) method 

 of placing the animal in the killing fluid, and with a needle in each 

 end pulling him asunder; or that emploved^by Conklin (4) of first 

 removing the head, and then pulling out the intestine by catching 

 the tail segment with a pair of forceps, is much more rapid. In 

 either case the intestine breaks at the junction of tlie anterior por- 

 tion, or stomach, with the middle portion, or " mid -gut." For 

 obtaining the intestine and the glands with their connection pre- 

 served, the posterior one or two segments are cut off with scissors 

 and the organs removed by pulling on the one or two anterior seg- 

 ments with forceps. The whole mass is easilv handled, and the 

 normal relation is preserved through all the fluids. I have usually 

 dissected off the harder chitiuous parts of the head in oil just 

 before embeddiua:. 



It has been necessary to give special attention to the means and 

 methods of fixation. As will appear more clearly later, the form 

 and relation of the cellular constituents depend upon the direction 

 of penetration of the killing fluid, as well as upon the strength of 

 the fluid employed. By the usual method of plunging the organs 

 directly into the killing fluid the penetration is, of course, from the 

 cielomic toward the luminal side of the cell. For the purpose of 

 obtaining penetration from the luminal toward tlie coelomic side of 

 tlie intestinal cells an hypodermic syringe was tilled with killing 

 fluid, and the needle, made blunt by turning back the jwint, was 

 inserted through the mouth into the anterior jwrtion of the mid- 

 gut. Then the i)()sterior segment having been cut off as before to 

 free the posterior attachment of the intestine, all the segments back 

 of the second thoracic were slipped off together by holding the 

 anterior end with one pair of forceps and pulling with another. In 

 a few cases I was able to obtain a fairly gootl injection by inserting 

 the needle after extracting the intestine; but since it always suffers 

 more or le.«s from handling, antl it is always ditticult to insert a 

 needle into a collap.<ed intestine without tearing it, the former proved 

 the safer if the more crael method. 



The following killing fluids have been used : c, ninety-five i>er 

 cent, alcohol; b, saturated a<iue(ius solution of corrosive sul)limale; 

 f, the .<anie with addition of two per cent, acetic acid; d, picroacetic 

 after Lee, and e, after Conklin; /, Zenker's fluid; g, picro-fornialiu; 

 h, formo-alcohol ; i, osniic acetic; J osmic-bichromate (Altmaiin's); 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 989 



the slide Thp Klnn,i „ tmcKness, the other end resting on 



n>al a t';e form of a I^" droV^Tf '''''A '"^ '^'^^'^P''''^^^' -- 

 cover-gla., w." cWn fnde/b^eSik'lS"' F° ''' '''' '' '^^ 

 dozen animals, accordin.. ^o LL. ' ■ -^,™°' °"^ *° '"•<> 



tinn Ti,„ ^1 ■ . ^. '"■-""«" ^^ater as water was ost by evanon 



tioned. stained and mounted ^n the ^ ^ ''"Self •"" "" 

 ivluch most reliance has been i.laced ^ZTJlT' . v'**'"' "P°" 

 Heidenhain, Flemmin<.-s (Hn le h! "o°-li«'matoxylin, Biondi- 



ac.id-fuchsin;-picrL iL r' The Sfof ';t/""\^ 



parts will be mentioned from time to time " °" '^'' """""^ 



III. Description of the Digestive System. 

 1. Crfo.ss Structure. 



nzed:JAe anterior, consisting of the oesophaguf and L^ 



t mach (ka^...a,en,poehe>nala.atrice); J^niMle ("'mfd " >' 



^«^e...e .,,,,), m which three divisions will be re ognizedf all 




290 PEOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [MaX, 



the posterior or reotuni. (July the middle intestine concerns us in 

 this paper. Its anterior portion is of slightly larger diameter than 

 the posterior (fig. 1). The lateral walls are perfectly straight; 



^nf ----- 



Sph 



PostSph 

 Rec 



Fiff. 1. — Oniscus aitcU'ii (m:\\f, 12 iiini.) X 10. — (Tn this and follow- 

 ing tiijiires nun. relVrs to the Icnijlh of tin; animal, inciisiiriii;; from the 

 anterior margin of tlie head of tlic segment lo llie'cnd of tlie uropods. ) 

 Slightly diagrammatic drawinft to show relation of the digestive organs. 

 Ant., Med., Post., anterior, median and posterior itorlions of tlie "mid- 

 gut "; Mus., muscular coat of inlestine, sliown only at extreme anterior 

 ecd of "midgut"; lypli., typlilosole ; Hep., liepatopancreas ; Tet., 

 testis; licc.S., receptacle of sperm; Vai>., va.s deferens ; Sp/t., sphincter 

 muscle; Pott Sph., post-spbincter ; Jiec, rectum. 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 291 



the transition from the anterior larger to the posterior smaller por- 

 tion is very gradual. The only break in the uniformity of the 

 wall back to the sphincter is a dorsal longitudinal furrow, bounded 

 by two slightly projecting ridges, which exteuds from the extreme 

 anterior end of the "mid-gut" to a point opposite the junction of 

 the fifth and sixth thoracic segments. At the anterior end of its 

 posterior third tlie structure thus presented widens out so that, as 

 Ide (3) says, "it terminates like a spatula." The furrow is due to 

 an infolding of the epithelium along the mid-dor.?al line (fig. 3), 

 which then spreads out laterally within the lumen, fitting into or 

 covering the secondary grooves formed by the projecting ridges. 

 Following Conkliu (see Sec. vi), I shall call the entire structure, 

 grooves and ridges, the typhlosole. The "mid-gut" is uniform 

 in size from the posterior end of the typhlosole to the region 

 of the fourth abdominal segment. Here it is considerably con- 

 stricted by a strong sphincter muscle pinching off, so to speak, a 

 small posterior portion of the " mid-gut," which has already 

 been spoken of as the post-sphincter, and which moulds the pellets 

 of waste before they are ejected. The typhlosole and sphincter 

 mark off three convenient subdivisions of the "mid-gut": the 

 anterior, containing the typhlosole and reaching to its posterior end ; 

 the median, from the end of the typhlosole to the sphincter muscle, 

 and the posterior, including that portion covered by the sphincter, 

 and the post-sphincter ])ortiou as far as the rectum. 



2. Glands. — Huet (7) has described for Ligia a pair of salivary 

 glands lying on the posterior ventral wall of the oesophagus and 

 opening by an extremely narrow aperture into this portion of the 

 canal. He has demonstrated that they are salivary glands by dis- 

 secting them out in alcohol (\vhich does not destroy diastase) and 

 placing potato starch in a watery extract. Dextrose was detected 

 after twenty-four hours. Ide (3) considers these glands as cutaneous 

 appendages, disputing their connection with the oesophagus, 

 although admitting that they may be concerned in digestion. On 

 account of their very small size and the uncertainty of their morpho- 

 logical nature, no attention has been given them in this study. 



The only other digestive gland vith which we have to do in the 

 isopods is the hepatopancreas. It consists, in the forms studied, 

 of two pairs of blind tubes, placed a pair on each side of the intes- 

 tine, into which they open, at the anterior end, by a 1-shaped 




292 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



aperture. The two tubes ou the same side unite into a transverse 

 canal which joins that of the other side at the aperture. The 

 tubes extend almost the entire length of the body ca\'ity, their 

 tapering blind ends reaching into the abdominal segments (fig. 1 j. 

 It is to Weber (37) that we owe the recognition of the mixed na- 

 ture of this gland and the application to it of the name hepato- 

 pancreas, introduced by Krukenburg (24) for the analogous organ 

 of fishes. 



2. Microscopic Structure of Intestine. 



The wall of the " mid-gut," as of the other divisions of the 

 intestine, is made up of four coats which have been recognized by 

 all the later writers. Beginning with the outer or ca?lomic side, these 

 are the muscular coat, the basement membrane, the epithelium and the 

 intima or chitinous lining. The muscular coat has been fully de- 

 scribed by Idc (•!) and Schonichen (6). It consists of two layers, 

 an outer longitudinal and an inner circular. Over the anterior 

 portion of the " mid-gut " (/. e., as far back as I lie lyphlo.«ole ex- 

 tends^ the outer is imposed upim the inner; posterior to this both 

 layers thin out so that the fibres are quite widely separated from 

 one another, each one rimning in (he groove between adjacent 

 rows of cells. Tlioy also fuse together and anastomose freely, so 

 that a muscular network is formed, through the meshes of which 

 the cells project. The sphincter, according to Ide, is an additional 

 layer lying outside the Iringitudinal and constituting a second circu- 

 lar one. The inner circular layer is very much reduced at this 

 place, so that only a few fibres appear. 



Tiie other coats, as McMurrich has indicated, properly belong to 

 the ei)ithelium. Both the biu^enient membrane and the chitinous 

 lining are formed by the epithelial cells. The former is a smooth 

 membrane of uniform thickness which accommodates itself to all 

 the irregularities of the outer surface, dipping into the dorsal fur- 

 row and keeping closely applied to the cells. We have already men- 

 tioned the very large size of the epithelial cells. As Ide observed, 

 (hey are often to be seen with the naked eye? They are repre- 

 sented in fig. 1 for Oniscus asellus, 12 mm. long, magnified just ten 

 diameters. Those in the median portion of the " mid-gut " are most 

 e!i.«ily seen, because only partly covered with nuisde. Their ends, 

 projecting freely into the ca-lome, apj>ear a.'^ little mound.* on the 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 293 



contour line. Another striking feature of the epithelium is the 

 rectangular arrangement of the cells in longitudinal and transveree 

 rows. ^ One exception occurs at the posterior end of the typhlosole, 

 at which point the longitudinal rows converge, so as to form, as 

 Schonichen says, " parallel parabolas, making a picture in optical 

 section not unlike a longitudinal section through a vegetative 

 point." While the rows elsewhere are rectilinear, they are not 

 often continuous from one end of the " mid -gut " to the other. 

 I have often seen longitudinal rows which terminate some distance 

 from the end. Discontinuous transverse rows have also been seen. 

 Ide's fig. 19 shows these features, whicli are supported further by 

 his statement that only the median two ventral rows can be followed 

 uninterruptedly from the anterior to the posterior end. 



(1) Growth of Intestine. 



At first sight the number of rows of cells appears definite and 

 constant enough that one might name the cells as city blocks are 

 named, and might even And cell homology between different indi- 

 viduals. This character has been mentioned by all the authors since 

 Lereboullet (8) (Huet, Ide, Conklin, McMurrich, Schonichen) 

 and McAlurnch has attempted to show that the number is constant 

 throughout the life of an individual. McMurrich' s attempt is 

 based on the non-occurrence of cell division. No observer except 

 I^ee (9), who regarded certain deformed nuclei stretching from one 

 cell to another as remains of the spindle (fmeau de regression) has 

 seen any sign of mitosis, and McMurrich says: " I have never been 

 able to satisfy myself that normal amitosis actually occui-s " He 

 seemed to be justified, therefore, in the attempt (which by his 

 own_ confession is not wholly successful) to show that growth of 

 the mtestme takes place by enlargement of the cells rather than by 

 multiplication. •' 



Amitosis. -In young individuals amitosis is by no means rare 

 l^ig. 2, A, B aud C, show some of the stages which are easily 

 found at this tune. Fig. 2, A, is a longitudinal section exhibiting 

 the rotative sizes of cells whose nuclei have just divided, aud of 

 hose recently constricted off. Conklin {I.e.) has rightly interpreted 

 this constriction of the cells, aud has figured what he regards as an 

 amitotic division. It would appear from fig. A and fig B (which 

 IS a horizontal section showing division in the transverse direction) 

 that the nuclei may completely divide and move some distance 

 apart before constriction of the cytoplasm takes place. From 

 oue or two observations made on very young porcellios in proces.^^ 

 of moulting, I am led to think that the constriction may even be 




294 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[May, 



postponed until the next moult of the intestinal lining. The old 

 intima evidently would present considerable resistance to the forma- 

 tion of a furrow, which is always to be seen in the iutinia between 



Fig. 2. — A, longitudinal section of intestine of a young Poreellio 

 (3 mm.); B, transverse section of the same ; C. optical section of intes 

 tinal cells of young Porcellio (1.8 mm.) immediately after moult of 

 the posterior half. All these figures illustrate growth of the intestine by 

 amitosis. A and B X 280, C"x 600, nuclei in C show post-mortem 

 changes. 



cells. Moreover, there is nothing to indicate that the nuclei repre- 

 sented a.s already separate in these figures (.4 and B) have not 

 been so for a considerable time, while the freiiuent occurrence of 

 two niu-leated cells, with no other sign of division, would speak 

 strongly for this. 



Several autliore have reported cells with two or three nuclei, and 

 Carnoy (10) Knds a.s many as ten to thirty nuclei in the iutestiual 

 cells of Cirolana. So large a number is due, I have abundant reason 

 to believe, to fragmentation of tlie nuclei, not to amitosis, as Car- 

 ney states (?. c. ). Schonichen discredits ^IcMurrich's evidence 

 (to the same effect as my own), holding that tiie fragmented nuclei 

 res( Ive on focusing cjirefuUy into the nuclei of the muscle fibres. 

 He evidently has not ."ecn the phenomenon rei)orteil by McMurrich. 

 Space does not permit an account of the un<|uesliomible ca.*es of 

 ft-agmenlation which I have seen. A whole plate of figures might 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 29-5 



be given of cells coutainiug from a dozeu to twenty-five fragments 

 ot the nucleus No explanation of the phenomenon can be%iven 

 at present further than to say that there are manv reasons to regard 

 99?) 1'''''''°'°^""''' °'" " degenerative" in Lowit's sense (see page 



I have found the intestine of a young ^o/wZ/Zo, l.S mm. in 



eugth which had recently moulted the posterior half (8ec. iii (4) ) 



to be hlerallv filled with amitotic division, both longitudinal and 



ransverse, throughout its length (fig. 2, C). Man," nuclei were 



o process ot divisu^n ; those already separated were approximatelv 



lialt the volume of others not yet beginning to constrict. Tilers 



can be no doubt that the large number of divisions was correlated 



with the increase in size of the intestine immediatelv following the 



moult. It .seems equally plain that two nucleated cells which are 



larger than adjacent ones, as in fig. 2, A, may repre-sent precocious 



nuclear divisions, the constriction which will divide the cell beiu- 



deterred to the next moult, when the luminal end of the cell will 



be_free to cover the new furrow, as well as the old surface, with 



It is evident that amitosis has been ..een in the Lsopod intestine 

 by a number of observers. Carnoy ( ] ) claims to have seen ' ' the 

 constriction of the nucleus in the epithelium of the intestine of the 

 Crus acea, e cj Oniscus asellus, Licjia, Armadillo (isellu.^, Idotea, 

 Ctrolana, etc He figures amitosis in the testicle cells of the 

 Lsopod, and says these represent exactly what is to be seen in the 

 nuclei of intestinal cells, so far as the phenomena of division are con- 

 cerned It Ls possible, however, that Carnoy, as Mc.Murrich and 

 bchonichen think, may have mistaken distortions of the nucleus for 

 amitosis. Indeed, V. Bambeke (11) refers to one of the figures given 

 by Larnoy as a deformed nucleus. Ziegler and voni Eafh ( 12 ) say 

 that the -mid-gut" of Onkcus, PorceUio, Cymothoa v^mXAnilocm 

 show amitotic nuclear divisions with special clearness and very 

 abundantly ("besonders deutlich und recht hiiufig"); but as will 

 be seen under the subject of the nuclei,, later, and L was recog- 

 nized by Schonichen, it appeai-s probable that thev, too, coufn-ed 

 with amitosis certain dLstortious of the nucleus. " Conklin ^avs 

 speaking of elongated nuclei extending into two cells, " some "of 

 these, i am convinced, are amitotic divisions of the nucleus " Since 

 these ohservations have been called in question bv McMurrich on the 

 basis of the very frequent misjudgmeut of irregularlv shaped nuclei, 

 It has seemed worth while communicating mv own observations In 

 coucliusion, I niay say there is no possible doubt that amitosis does 

 actually occur in the growing intestine, nor any doubt that it has 

 here the .same significance which Freuzel (1.3) ascribes to the phe- 

 nomenon m the mid-gut of Astacm and other decapods, namely, a 

 tuie cell multiplication (" nicht einzig und allein eine Kernvermeh- 

 nmg, sondern ebensowolil auch eine wahre Zellvermehrung " p ,5.59) 




■296 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[May, 



In other words, it is a " regenerative " as distinguished from a de- 

 geuerative process. Lowit (14) distinguishes between these two iu 

 the following: " Die ei-ste fiihrt nach meiue Auffassung zur Jseubil- 

 dung von Kern und ZelJe, die let/.lere kann rait sekretoriseheu uud 

 assirailatorischen Yorgangen ini Zellleibe zusainmenhaugen uud 

 durfte wahrscheinlich in vieleu Fallen der ausdruck eiues bevor- 

 stehendeu Kern imd Zelltodes sein." 



(2) Origin of the Ti/phloiole. — Iu specimens of Force llio spin - 

 icornis 1.8-2 mm. long I have been able to follow the origin of the 

 Ivphlosole. This structure, as we have seen, is but an infolding of 

 the mid-dorsal wall of the " mid-gut," accompanied by a secondary 



Fig. 3. — Transverse sections of eiiiply intestine of a young I'orccUio 

 (1.8 mm.). X 180. A. At extreme aiilerior end of the "mid-gut"; II. 

 Si.\th section (.04 mm.) posterior to ^1.; Typh.Ev. Primary evagination 

 iu formation of the tyiililosole ; Typk.lnv. Secondary invagination of 

 median two rows of cells whicli form the nnddle portiou of the tyiihlo- 

 sole. 



outfolding on either side which appears as a ridge; but it is so 

 <lefinite iu form as to be jjlaiuly a specializsition as well, and my 

 observations show that its development is a progre.^sive one. 

 Cro.ss sections of the anterior portion of the " mid-gut" in ani- 

 mals just hatched show a perfectly uuifonn unfolded wall, the 

 lyphlosole uot yet to be .seen. Iu fig. 3, A, of a s])ccinien 1.8 

 mm. long (taken iu February and therefore probably several 

 months old), the section is from the extreme uuterior eud ; the next 

 (tig. ."J, B) is only si. X sections (about. 04 mm.) farliicr back. The 

 latter shows tiie earlier stage. The mid-dorsal portion of the wall 

 is bulged out over a considerable extent of the circumference. The 

 cells composing the ijulged jwrtiou are very ojk'U iu structure, like 




1902.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



29/ 



those found in the extreme posterior end of the adult typhlosole. 

 They are hirger in all dimensions than those in the rest of the wall, 

 so that the effect is such as would be produced by swelling. Since I 

 have found the structure identically the same in five different 

 individuals of the same age, killed in three different fluids, it seems 

 certain that the s\velliug is normal and due to some intrinsic growth 

 energy. Fig. 3, A, shows that the evagiuated or liulged portion 

 on the dorsal side is but preliminary to an invagination of the 

 median two cells whereby the mature form of the typhlosole is 

 apj)roached. These cells liave only to grow farther into the lumen 

 and to expand laterally, so as to cover or fill the inner grooves 

 formed at the sides, in order to attain the adult form. The invag- 

 ination may involve more than these two cells; the stalks separate 

 at their bases later, as shown in fig. 4, A, so that the division 

 between these and the next cells must be purely arbitrary. 



In the anterior portion the cells rapidly recover from the swell- 

 ing which is so plain a feature at the first evaginatiou (figs. 3 and 

 4), while in the posterior portion they retain this loose structure 

 permanently (fig. 4). Here also the middle cells are not turned 



Pig. 4. — Transverse sections intestine of young Oniacus (4.4 mm) x 

 270: A, tlirougli anterior portion of tlie typlilosole ; JB, througli posterior 

 end of the typlilosole, same magnifleation ; Oh., channel for passage of 

 secretion or liquid food ; Cg., coagulum of secretion of hepatopancreas. 

 B shows the etfects of killing fluids on the large cells of the tN'phlosole. 



in .so far, while the lateral extension at their luminal border is 

 rather wider than it is farther anterior. The posterior portion of 

 which we have been speaking is the spatula-like enlargement men- 




298 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [^lajj 



tioned on page 291). It will appear evident from figs. 4, A and 

 B, that six rows of cells, counting by the nuclei, are involved in 

 the typhlosole. 



(o) Syncytium. 



The very large cells which compose the adult " mid-gut" were 

 recognized by Huet to be without distinct parietal walls, but to be 

 bounded by rows of fibres. Ide figures cell walls for Onisciis 

 murariws, and thinks Huet was in error or overlooked them. 

 Almost simultaneously Mc^Turrich and Schonichen put forward the 

 view that the epithelium is in reality a syncytium, the walls being 

 replaced by fibres which run from the intima to the basement 

 membrane. Both authors show that what Ide saw is undoubtedly 

 the chitinous lining, dipping in between the anterior cells on the 

 lumiual side and the basement membrane, which has a similar 

 relation to the coelomic side of the median cells. The syncytial 

 nature they argue farther from the facts that the cells cannot be 

 separated by maceration in pota.sh (a thing which Ide claims to 

 have accomplished) ; that neither silver nitrate nor other stains 

 differentiate cell walls ; and finally, that the nuclei may be squeezed 

 through from one cell into another. Ryder and Pennington (15), 

 who described these movements of nuclei as a natural phenomenon 

 (see page 304), figure cell walls, but do not state what becomes 

 of them when the nuclei pass through. Conkliu, in showing that 

 the changes of position on the part of the nuclei are due en- 

 tirely to rough treatment, says : ' ' The parietal wall* are so thin 

 that they cannot be distinguished." My own observations confirm 

 those of the later writers. In the majority of cases of adult intes- 

 tines where I have looked for them, no sign of a wall is to be seen. 

 Figs. 15 and 1(5 represent the cytoplasm as perfectly continuous 

 from one cell to another. 



We have alreaily spoken of the grooves which .separate the ante- 

 rior cells on the luminal side. On account of these grooves the inter- 

 cellular fibres are sjiorter than the cell axes. The same is true for 

 the ci'Us (if the mcdiaTi ])ortii)ii and for those of fhp transitional re- 

 gion, but for a slightly different reason. AVliile the intima does not 

 dip in between the median cells, the latter project into the ca-l'ime 

 at their centres more than at the edges (fig. 12). The cells in the 

 transition regiim immediately posterior to the typhlosole show an 

 iuternieiliate condition ; the intima does not dip in so deeply l)etween 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 299 



tlie cells as iu the anterior (fig. 21), and the cells do not project so 

 far into the coelome as in the median portion. The intercelliilar 

 fibres consequently are again shorter than the cell axis. 



Inside the cells, as has often been described, occur other fibres 

 taking the same course from the intima to the basement membrane. 

 Their disposition is varied, sometimes in bundles, as in fig. 4, or 

 singly, as in fig. 9. Again they may be strong throughout their 

 length, as in fig. 4 (usually so iu the typhlosole), or may thin out 

 at one end, as in fig. 9. In sections they cannot often be followed 

 continuously from intima to basement membrane because their course 

 is not often straight. They are more frequently straight in the 

 typhlosole where they are thicker than elsewhere (figs, o and 4). 

 Where the fibres approach the intima or basement membrane they 

 are parallel and nearly always straight. This gives the so-called 

 " striated " border which has so often been described for the " mid- 

 gut " of isopods (Lereboullet, Leydig (16), Huet, Ide, McMurrich, 

 Conklin, Sehonichen). The great regularity of the fibres along the 

 intima is due to a thickening of them for a short distance in, thereby 

 producing what Sehonichen calls the " Biilkchenzcme." Both Mc- 

 Murrich and Sehonichen regard this thickening as due to a deposition 

 of chitin on the fibres, basing their conclusion on a refractive index 

 in the fresh condition, and on a staining reaction in the preserved 

 material, similar to that of the inner border of the intima. Practi- 

 cally all autlioi-s agree that the thickened ends are continuous with 

 the iutra-celUilar fibres. I shall designate this zone of thickened fibres 

 by the term palisade, hj which I would emphasize merely the parallel 

 arrangemcjit of the fibres at their ends. Very often the spaces 

 between the thickened ends are empty of cytoplasm, which of 

 course strengthens the impression of a separate zone. This zone 

 does not have definite limits, as can be seen iu starved cells, where 

 it may extend into the cell as far as the nucleus. In such a case 

 the only difference discernible in the course of the fibres is that they 

 are slightly tliicker at the luminal end. Again, as may be seen in 

 figs. 9 and 11, the cytoplasm fills the intervals between the fibres all 

 the way to the intima. Thus the width of the zone may vary from 

 nil to more than half the thickness of the cell, according, as we 

 shall see, to the physiological condition of the cell. 



Mc^Iurrich speaks of the brittleness of the fibres, inferring this 

 property from their cleavage in sections. Conklin calls attention 




300 PR0CEEDIXG3 OF THE ACADEMY OF [Majj 



also to the fact that they sometimes curl at the eud when cut, and 

 are thf.refore elastic. I have seen both of these effects, and would 

 add merely that I have seen them in the intercellular fibres and 

 those of the typhlosole more commonly than elsewhere. 



Ide regarded the fibres as mere thickenings of the cytoplasmic 

 reticulum, a ^•iew in perfect consistency wilh the reticular theory to 

 which he holds. McMurrich does not agree that they are mere 

 thickenings, and insists that they are entirely independent of the 

 reticulum. McMurrich is quite right in affirming this indepen- 

 dence, as many of ray figures will show; nevertheless, it is true, as he 

 discerns, that the fibres are cytoplasmic producls. The only excep- 

 tion I woiUd take to his view is with reference to their origin. He 

 states that " in very young specimens of Poreellio and Arma- 

 diUidium no trace of the fibres is to be discovered; and in a speci- 

 men of Oniscus measuring only 4 mm. in length they are but 

 slightly develo})ed, j)rojecling into the cytoplasm from the basement 

 membrane [from which they develop] but a short distance." Un- 

 fortunately McMurrich does not state how large his " very young 

 specimens ' ' were. In the youngest specimens of Porcel/iu which I 

 have .sectioned (less than 1.8 mm. in length) the fibres are already 

 very evident, although as is to be expected not so strongly developed 

 as in the larger specimens (figs. 2 and 3). I have also spctioucd the 

 intestine of an Omwciw measuring only 1.8 mm., and find the fibres 

 stretching all the ivay through the cell. I cannot say how early the 

 fibres arise, for these were the youngest individuals to l)o had in the 

 fall of the year. Uu(|uestionably Mcl\[urrii'li saw fibres which were 

 cut oiiliquely and which appeared not to extend all iho way through 

 the cell. The figure to which he refers is evidently from a moulting 

 animal (see fig. 8, page 309). There does not appear to bo very 

 good reason for inferring the origin of the fibres /roift the basement 

 membrane merely because they can be traced (o the membrane. 

 JNIy figs. 11, Ji, and 12 exhibit complete continuity between base- 

 ment membrane and fibres. A safer conclusion from the facts 

 would be that the fibres and membrane are both formed by the 

 cytoplasm and may be formed in continuity. This would account 

 for the appearance of a cell menioraue in fig. 12. 



a. Cytoplasm. 



The earliest observers saw iu tlicse cells the fibrillar structure of the 

 cytoplasm only. Leydig (17) states that what he described in former 




1902.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



301 



papers witli lower powers as lines (" dickeu granularen streifig 

 erscheinenden Zone " ), he now makes out lo be a " fadiges Balkeu- 

 werk desseu eiuzelue Saulchea ausserdem nieht glaUraodig siud 

 sondern seitlicheu Zackeu habeu, durch deren gegenseilige Verbiu- 

 dungen ein zartes nelziges Weseu zwisclien ilinea eutsteht." Ide 

 says, "The partisans of' the fibrillar structure of protoplasm as 

 opposed to the reticulated may see here an object very favorable to 

 their thesis" (I. c, p. 158). He recognized, however, as did 

 Leydig, the falsity of such a view, and both authoi-s commit them- 

 selves to the reticular structure. 



Later writers also have described this structure more or less 

 explicitly. Mc^Iurrich says : ' ' The cytoplasm in young specimens 

 has a uniform finely reticulated structure, but this is replaced in the 

 adult by a much less imiform arrangement." Couklin says, in 

 speaking of the disappearance of the nuclear membrane: "The 

 cyto-reticulum is continued into the nucleus," etc. Schonichen 

 finally accepts This~structure also, and Hardy (18) figures a "net" 

 structure for the fixed cells of Oniscus. 





Sr.r-i 1-.' M>.i--« 





Fiji. 5. — Optical seclions of: A, cytoplasm ; and B, nucleus of median 

 absorbing cells of Porcellio, showing alveolar structure. Drawn with 

 camera lucida from fresh cells, X 935. 



None of the authors named seems to have studied the fresh cells. 

 If a fresh Intestine be mounted in blood (see page 289). and one at- 

 tempts io draw the structure as it may then be seen with high powers, 

 he will soon be convinced that the reticular is not the true structure. 

 In all cases I have bv this method found the structure to be alveo- 




302 PROCEEUINGS OF TBE ACADEMY OF [May, 



lar (fig.-^. 5, 6, 11)/ This structure was observed iu the fresh cell 

 long before finding a fixation whicli preserves it. Subsequeutly, 



Mhs 



# 



■» • .•'-'i'-V-V-'.. , 



Alb_ 

 Of 



Fisr. 6. — Cell fiom inediaii portion of the "mid-gut " of Onisctis nsel- 

 lu/i, tixeil in 1 per conl. platinic chloriik- 15 piirts, 1 per cent, osmic 

 acid 4 parts, sixteen liours after feeding, and stained in iron luematoxy- 

 lin. Drawn witli camera lucida, X 600. The alveolar slrueture of the 

 cytoplasm is preserved. The shaded portion below the nucleus indi- 

 cates an artifact jiroduced by unilateral penetration of the killing fluid 

 (see page 306). The alternation of fibres and alveoles is shown. Alb. 

 Or., alburaose granules ; Int., intima ; Mm., muscle. 



by examining very carefully with high powers sections from an in- 



^It is possible that even this structure is due to "sub-mortem" 

 changes, as Hardy indicates. I have made many attempts to discover 

 the alveolar structure iu the gut of very young, transparent animals 

 while still living ; but without success. Nevertheless it would be jtre- 

 matuie to conclude from Hardy's studies on artificially prepared colloids 

 alone that there is no formed slruelure in the living protoida.«m. Should 

 this be shown in time, we should then necessarily conclude that the co- 

 agulation incident to the "sub-mortem " changes is practically instan- 

 taneous, since the structure sliown in Fig. 5, can be seen a» soon as the 

 preparation can be made (within one-half minute from the removal of 

 the intestine). Pending further studies on this subject, I refrain from 

 calling this alveolar structure, living. 



It should be said that this paper was in press before Hardy's very sug- 

 gestive one on "Structure of Cell Protoplasm " was seen. " 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 303 



te.stine fixed in Hermaim's without acetic, I found the alveole.s well 

 preserved (figs. 11, A, 12, etc.).''' 



Two obstacles appear to stand in the way of recognizing the alve- 

 olar structure by ordinary methods. In the first place, the inter- 

 alveolar substance, concerning which more will be said later, precipi- 

 tates in the fcjrm of granule-s in the interstices between the alveoles, 

 so as to look much like the nodes of a reticulum. In the second 

 place, the contents of the alveoles precipitate also as fine granules on 

 the alveolar walls. So that after sublimate-acetic fixation, for 

 instanci", the effect is precisely what one would expect from a retic- 

 ular structure. The best conditions, therefore, for observing the 

 true cytoplasmic structure would be where the interalveolar substance 

 is less abundant, and the contents of the alveoles is slightly or not 

 at all precipitated. Fig. (i repre.sents such a place; Fig. 7, A, is 

 also favorable in places (e. g., centre near the toj)). In the former 

 figure the alveoles^-e represented by continuous lines as they should 

 be ; but for representing the combhied effect of alveoles and granular 

 substance, it has been necessary in the interest of simple drawings 

 to adopt the conventional method seen in all the other figures. In 

 fig. 6 it will be seen that the fibres have a very definite relation to 

 the alveoles ; often in this intestine, and in many othei-s, the alve- 

 oles are plainly between fibres, and the fibres between alveoles as 

 represented. This structure is easily seen in the free ends of the 

 median cells of a fresh intestine mounted in blood. It is easy to 

 underetand how Ide and later writers should have mistaken this 

 arrangement for the reticular, and should have suppo.sed that the 

 fibres are joined by trabeculse. Ide seems to have recognized the 

 independence of the fibres, where he says: " Sf it were shown that 



* The fluid was suggested to me by Misses Foote and Strobel (19), who 

 were able to preserve the alveolar structure (hyaline globules) of the 

 eggs of AUobophora fatida iu it much better than in an}' other fluid. 

 Their photographs of the living egg and of the structure as preserved 

 by this fixation, which I have been permitted to see, are very convinc- 

 ing. Use had been made of this fluid to some extent early in the study, 

 but as the nucleus appeared not to be so well preserved as with other 

 fluids, it was set aside temporarily ; more recently it was employed 

 throughout a series of physiological stages, with results far more satis- 

 factory for many purposes than were obtained witli any other fluid. 

 However, the alveolar structure has been met, occasionally very well 

 preserved, after Hermann's, Flemming's, picro-formalin, and sublimate 

 acetic (fig. 10, B). Ordinarily with these and all other fluids, except 

 the platinic-chloride and osmic acid mixture, the structure appears to be 

 reticular. 




304 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [MaV , 



ill ccrtiiin cells strongly differentiated and old, such as tliose with 

 wliich we are dealing, there exist fibres without connections, nothing 

 would stand in the way of admitting that certain trabeculoe break 

 their bonds and are isolated," etc. (^. c, p. 158). The apparent 

 connection of fibres with reticulum is due to bad fixation. Sub- 

 limate-acetic, Hermann's, usually Flcmming's, and a number of 

 other much trusted fiaids produce a similar effect ; but it is not the 

 picture one gets in the fresli cell, the structure of which is not 

 difficult to determine. 



The alveoles measure on the averagee 'Iij. in diamter in all ages- 

 Between them in the fresh cell is a substance in which T have uot 

 been able with a A immersion to recognize granules or any other 

 formed elemeuts. Granules do appear at times about the uucleu'', 

 Ijut these have no part in the ground struclure. With nearly all 

 fixations, except ])Os^ibly alcohol and fornio-alcohol, tlie homcigcneous 

 iuteralveolar substance precipitates in the form of line granules 

 visible witli the immersion lens. 



b. Nucleus. 



Ml. Form. — The iiucleas of the " in id -gut " cells has been tlie 

 object of several investigations within the period of modern tcch- 

 ni<|ue. In 1885 Carnoy probably mistook some unnatural forms 

 of the nucleus for stages of amit(jsis. In 1887 v. Bambeke de- 

 scribed many of these unnatural forms in the " mid-gut " cells of 

 Oitiic as and other isopods, wiiich may be produced artificially. His 

 method was to examine the intestine in blood of the animals, either 

 with or without the addition of methyl green. F(n- permanent 

 preparations he fixed in osmic acid, stained with methyl green, and 

 mountetl in glycerine. He recognized clearly that the irregular 

 forms, frequently found in such preparations, were due to some 

 mechanical disturbance. 



Ziegler and vom Rath, like ("arnoy, doubtless erred in supiiosing 

 the elongated nuclei to be in process of division. Ryder and Pen- 

 nington, overlooking v. Bambeke's paper, described elongated 

 nuclei stretching from one cell to another as a form of non-sexual 

 conjugation of nuclei. ^Vll subsequent writers have recognized that 

 for the most part these deformations are due to mechanical cau.ses 

 incident to preparation of tlie intestine for study. Schimkewit.'ch 

 (20), in calling attention to this error, says: " Bei Bearbeitung 




1902.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



305 



mit Perenyischer Flussigkeit erhielt ich mit Leichtigkeit alle jeue 

 Figuren, welche diese Autoren abbikleu. ' ' Conklin showed that, by 

 pressing a particular part of the intestinal wall with a pencil point, 

 all the nuclei in this region were caused to stretch out in a radial man- 

 ner from the place pressed. McMurrich distinguished between irregu- 

 lar forms found after rough treatment, and those which he regarded 

 as natural. Schonichen declares that he never found any but 

 spherical nuclei in well-preserved intestines. 



McMurrich and Conklin thought the nucleus might be more or 

 less amoeboid in life, like those described by Korsehelt (21) for the 

 egg-cell of Dytkcus, and that not all the processes found in carefully 

 mounted intestines were abnormal, but might be an index of the 

 physiological condition. The processes stretching toward the lumeu 



B 



Si&d4i^ 











\:j-v:'::w 





Fig. 7.— Cells X 600 from "mid-gnt " of PorceUio, showing artifiicts 

 produced by injection of fixinp: fluids into the lumen of the intestine and 

 consequent unilateral penetration by the fluid. A, injected with Her- 

 mann s fluid ; B. with picro-acetic (after Bolles Lee)." The nuclei ex- 

 hibit "amoeboid" processes. 



in fixed preparations were regarded as specializations for receiving 

 food from that direction. For a time this seemed to me to be 

 the state of affairs, and a number of sketches were made represent- 

 ing what seemed to be the escape of nuclear substance also from the 

 processes toward the lumen. Processes of greater or less size were 

 found on this side after all fixations, and it appeared that they 

 must therefore be normal ; yet I could not see them in fresh cells 

 of any physiological condition. Finally, at Prof. Conklin' s sug- 

 20 




306 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



gestion, several intestines were injected with killing fluid, to see if 

 penetration of fluid from the lumen would cause processes toward 

 the coelome. The result is shown in fig. 7, A and B. Nothing 

 could be more convincing. The processes of the nucleus, and in 

 large measure all deviations from the spherical, or at least regularly 

 curvilinear outline, are to be regarded as due to fixation. The 

 latter are the forms found in the living cell, and they are the only 

 ones considered in this paper to be perfectly normal. 



bb. Structure. — Several authors have described more or less 

 minutely the structure of the nucleus in fixed material. In adidt 

 cells after fixation it is filled with large granules of chi'omatin, be- 

 tween which are traces of linin. From one to many nucleoli are 

 alwavs more or less distinct. In young cells the chromatin is not so 

 abundant, as IMcMurrich figures, and as may be seen from figs. 2 

 and 3. With neutral fixation* like formo-alcohol, oxychromatin 

 may be distinguished. 



v. Bambeke seems to be the only author who has hitherto studied 

 the nucleus in fresh material. From evidence furnished by the 

 distorted nuclei, he says: " L'l^tude des uoyeaux ^trirfe permet de 

 conclure a une consistauce visqueuse des parlies constituantes du 

 noyau, notammueut des filaments nucleolaire et de la substance 

 intermediaire ; les nucleoles (nucleoles plasnia(ique) presen lent une 

 cousislance plus forte et rcsisteut d'avantage aux ciiuses de deforma- 

 tion ;' ' and again, ' ' La maniere d' etre des filaments dans les noyaux 

 e^rires semble indiquer que dans le noyau intact ils sont jielotoiinfe 

 et uon di.sposes en reticulum." All oilier authoi-s who have 

 observed the deformed nuclei have drawn similar conclusions with 

 reference to its consistency. 



As may be observed from fig. 5, I have found the structure of 

 the fresh nucleus plainly alveolar, like that of the cytoplasm, 

 except that the alveoles are larger. The relative size may be seen 

 in figs. 5, A and B. Both are drawn at the same magnification, 

 the cell in ^1 being much smaller than that from which the nucleus 

 in B is taken. The alveolar structure may by chance be preserved 

 by over-fixation, e. <7., " osmication," to use "Bolles Lee's lenu. 

 lu neither the fresh nor this over-fixed condition are granules to be 

 seen; but Ihey arc iirought out sharply by nearly all fixations when 

 the action is not so powerful. I see no way to account for the over- 

 fixed alveoles on any other hypothesis than that of Fischer, who 




1002.] NATURAL SCIENX'ES OF PHILADELPHIA. 307 



regards the chromatin as a more or less complete solution of nuclein 

 bodies, which are precipitated ordinarily in the form of granules by 

 fixing fluids. If the chromatin is already in the form of alyeoles 

 oyer-tixatiou might result from too rapid action of the fluid on the 

 periphery of the alyeole, j.reyenting a deeper penetration, and con- 

 sequently preventing ccmplele precipitation in the form of a granule 

 The '' skein-like " arrangement (pelotonee) of the chromatin of v 

 Bambeke would thus be accounted for. Certainly the " o^mi- 

 cated" nuclei look a. if such a partial precipitation had taken 

 place. How to regard the strands which appear in distorted 

 nuclei (Fig. 7, A), whether as the mere elongation of alyeoles or 

 as due to rupture with escape of chromatin contents, I am wholly 

 undecided. I hope to make this and related subjects the object of a 

 special study. 



(4) Moulting. 



We have no^v considered the normal cellular structure common 

 to all physiological conditions, except those incident to the sheddin.. 

 and renewal of the lining. Early in the course of this study it 

 became necessary to separate clearly the changes occurring in the 

 cell durmg these processes from those connected with the phe- 

 nomena of absorption of foods. It is well kno^Ti that the land 

 isopods moult frequently durmg the spring and smnmer. Kept in 

 the Vivarimn and Laboratory at temperatures correspondmc. to 

 these seasons, the moults take place in a perfectly normal mamer 

 even m winter, and may easily be observed. It is well known too 

 that the test of the isopo,l is cast in two pieces. The posterio; 

 piece, which comes off first, reaches to the anterior border of the 

 fafth thoracic segment. One or two days may intervene before the 

 anterior piece is shed. ' 



' In two cases observed in February, of which I kpnt r.or»ft,i 

 nor K,i „, °Z,l-;,mi£j[^,lS T^^ 




308 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF pMay, 



It is said that the lining of the ' ' mid-gut ' ' comes out when the 

 posterior half of the test is shed (Schonichen), and this I have seen 

 in a number of cases. Sometimes, however, the lining is not to be 

 found with the posterior half, but remains in the lumen attached, 

 it may be, at some point. The habit of eating the posterior test 

 (see note 7) may possibly be concerned with detaching the lining 

 in such cases. The lining begins to break loose from the epithelial 

 cells before there is any apparent sign of the external moult. Fig. 

 8, from an animal in the act of casting its intestinal lining, pre- 

 sents an appearance in striking contrast with that seen in other 

 physiological conditions. The fibres are wholly wanting on the 

 luminal side of the nucleus, and the cytoplasm has a imiformly 

 granular aspect ; the alveolar structure is almost entirely masked by 

 the granules, so that only rarely does one get a glimpse of it even with 

 high powers. The palisade at the luminal edge is not to be seen. 

 Schonichen has observed this disappearance and concludes that the 

 chitinized ends of the fibres (Biilkchen) function in breaking loose 

 the iatima, in the way the " little hairs " described by Braun (22) 

 are said to do for Astacus. He has not, however, noticed the differ- 

 ence between the two cases, namely : that in Astaciw the little hairs 

 are to be seen in the test both during the shedding and after it has 

 taken place, whereas in the isopods the fibres wholly disajipear. 

 The disappearance of the fibres is too complete to be accounted for 

 by the mere masking of the alveolar structure by means of gran- 

 ules. This is in strong contrast with a ca.<e of ma.sking which 

 occurs when the end of the cell is filled with small granules, refer- 

 able to the process of food absorption (fig. 11, B). The thick- 

 ened portion of the fibres does not disa])pear in such masking; 

 they may even appear more sharply defined than where such 

 granules are not present (fig. 11, .4). At a later stage in the 

 process of moulting, fibres, very much finer than those whicli still 

 exist unaffected by the moult in the ccelomic side, can be traced 

 in the liuninal side afler the new intima has attained some thick- 

 ness. The fine fibres do not po.ssess the strong affinity for stauis 

 which they have later. From the foregoing facts it is only reason- 

 able to suppose that the fibres in the luminal side of the cell con- 

 tribute to the formation of the substance by whose transformatiou 

 the new intima is formed ; and that their disappearance at the time 

 of moulting is due to some process of dissolution, the fluid thus 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 309 



formed precipitating La the form of granules which, as we have 

 said, mask the tnie structure of the cytoplasm. On this hypothesis 

 an explanation Is readily afforded for the varying strength of the 

 palisade in different individuals. When very strong — i. e., com- 

 posed of thick fibres from the intervals between which the cyto- 

 plasm has withdrawn^ the very evident "striated border" 

 described by so many authors is present. In such cases we may 

 suppose the animal to be approaching a moult. When the palisade 

 is scarcely \'isible (fig. 11, ^1) a moult has probably occurred 

 shortly before feeding. 



In the case of moulting figured (fig. 8) the intestine was taken 



Fig. 8. — Median cell X 600 from iutestine of Oniscus asellua, fixed in 

 sublimate acetic immediately after moulting the chitinous iutima. The 

 lower part of the cell is filled with chitinogenous substance in granular 

 form. All fibres have disappeared from this side of the cell. Intima is 

 very thin. 



forty-two hours after feeding. The quantity of food in granular 



form on the luminal side of the intestinal cell at this time is usually 



small, and when it does occur the granules can be distinguished 



from those of the chitinogenous substance. The latter are smaller, 



nearly uniform in size, equally distributed and very abundant. 



While I have not been able to trace all the steps in this process, it 



seems probable that there is here a dissolution of fibras in some 



points like that described by Mathews (23) for the zymogen of the 



pancreas of many vertebrates.* The new intima is laid down by 



some process of hardening of the chitinogenous substance. 



' To any one familiar with Mathews' paper the diiference will be 

 obvious. The zymogen granules he derives directly from the fibres, 

 which are traceable in some cases to the chromatin. Granules may 

 occur here previous to precipitation by the killing fluids. 




310 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [i^lav, 



While McMurrich declares the iutima to be impermeable, both 

 Conklhi and Schonichen speak for the existence of pores through 

 which food may pass. These are best seen iu the fresh iutestiue. 

 When the iutima is found with the posterior half of the test, one 

 has only to mount it in water to demonstrate clearly the pores in 

 all parts. They are a little more numerous per unit area of sur- 

 face iu the median than in tlie anterior portion. Owing to the 

 relatively uniform structure of the chitin and its high refractive 

 index, it is difficult to make out more than little pits at the sur- 

 face, i. e., the luminal end of the pores. In sections made from a 

 fresh intestine with a freezing microtome and mounted in gum- 

 arabic I chanced to get an oblique view of the pores, which supplied 

 the direct evidence that they actually perforate the iutima. One 

 can in this way measure both their length and diamete?-. The 

 former corresponds, of course, to the thickness of the iutima, and 

 avarages iu the anterior portion for several individuals 1.6,", in the 

 median portion 2.4/i. The average diameter of the pores for a 

 number of intestines was .5/^. 



3. Summary of Structure. 



We have now considered the complete structure concerued directly 

 in the absorption of food, and have noted the changes in the cells 

 due to the process of moulting. To recapitulate, the apparatus 

 consists of an epithelium of large cells covered by a thin basement 

 membrane, which alone intervenes between the cell body and the 

 coelome, and lined by a porous layer of chitin. On the mid-dorsal 

 wall of the anterior portion of the epithelium six longitudinal rows 

 of cells participate iu the formation of a typlilosole. The cells have 

 no parietal limiting membraues, but are separated quite distinctly 

 from each other by intercellular siii)porting fibres. The cytoplasm 

 is alveolar. Between the alveoles course the intracellular fibres 

 from the intima to the basement membrane. Each cell contains a 

 large spherical nucleus alveolar iu structure in the fresh conilitiou, 

 tilletl with large granules of chromatin in the' "perfectly" fixed 

 condition. At the luminal side of the cell (he intracellular fibres 

 are parallel and are thickened so as to iornx a more or less rigid 

 palisade, from the intervals of which cytoplasm may be excluded. 

 The thickened ends of intracellular fibres serve, firstly, to preserve 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 311 



au opeu structure on tlie free margin of the cells, and, secondly, to 

 furnish some substance essential t(5 the formation of the intima. ' 



IV. Feeding Experijients. 



We come now to the main purpose of this paper, namely: to con- 

 sider the cellular phenomena during the absorption of foods. We 

 shall take up in order the changes to be observed in the cell during 

 the process of absorbing (a) proteid and (6) fatty foods, reserving 

 for later consideration the changes effected within 'the lumen by the 

 digestive fluids under the subject of secretion in the hepatopancrea?. 



It will be necessary to mention briefly the methods of feeding. 

 Animals were starved for various lengths of time, then allowed to 

 eat fresh raw beef for ten minutes, after which they were isolated 

 and killed at successive intervals. Table I (which appears at the 

 end of the pajjer) is arranged with reference to the number of hoiu-s 

 after feeding at which the intestines were fixed. Other foods con- 

 taining proteid, such as raw and cooked oatmeal, bread, white of 

 egg and other meats, were used for control and comparison, but by 

 far the larger number were fed finely-chopped raw beef. For uni- 

 formity only those which were fed on beef are mentioned in the 

 table." 



( 1 ) Effects of Starvation. 



In examining cells after feeding, two factors are to be carefully 

 separated, namely : the effect of previous starvation, and the change 

 produced by the food. It will be necessary now to make mention 



tiZX ^Thn'^'',Tf,^''^ *° ^% '''^^y°J^^^^^^<^<^mm^U to feed coiT 

 wonr^w I "^' ''^^^"'y '^'"''' l^rouglit from a dark room directly to a 

 well.hgb eel one. none would eat unless protected from the lieht by an 



iT thrii.'iirf""" ''"P T !^" '' '^."'^'^ ■^'''"^'•- On -he o.he, haX U kep° 

 Irl -^ °J ""^""^ '^'^y^ ""^ ""'™='l became accustomed to the 

 greater intensity, and would usually eat at once. Even these wouW eat 

 T.^^TvT'^'l f the food were sbread on the under,: ie of an objec' 

 as a box-hd, and this placed at an angle so that the animal's body was 

 suspended Again, if they were allowed to find the food hithe com-srof 



vZ ::^,r n"°^'' "^'^ '^■'^"''' °^ '^«''°S continuously weVe improved 

 Even w th hese precautions the only way to be sure of the time was to 

 wach the individual and keep notb by some mark, such a a son? of 

 asphalt-cement or India-ink on the dorsum. Ten minutes continuous 

 eating was found to be a good average meal of be V Memion Irs 



ta US t^8 food "if '.ft' ?' '".""^ '^"'"""°" ■" ^•^"^'^ '•^'^ land'sopod Ob 

 ains Its food If after long starvation one were allowed to fill the intes- 

 tine entirely full the result was sometimes fatal ; although after a shorter 



keoTanvetdlfi'-t",'''' '""^" '''''' *"'-°™ ^^« "^'"^'^l stati:;hey eoukl be 

 Kept alive indefinitely on a constant meat diet. 




312 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



of the effects of the former. Inspection of fig. 7, A, shows that 

 the fluid contents of the cell are free to move from one part of the 

 cell to the other. Some of it is seen here coagulated on the coelo- 

 mic side of the nucleus. The alveoles in the knver part of this cell 

 were uncommonly distinct. Comparison of this figure with 9 shows 





■-•• •••;'/-..V7v:5;w:V>-v 



V 



Fig. 9. — Median intestinal alisorl)ing cell X 'iOO from PorecUio scaber, 

 taken from natural environment. Intestine fixed in Hermann's tluid by 

 simultaneous injeetion and inunersion. Alh.Gr., albumose granules. 



that the quantity of granular substance is considerably reduced in 

 the former. The former is from an animal starv'ed twenty-four 

 days, the latter from one taken fresh from the natural environment. 

 In the coelomicend of the median intestinal cells of animals starved 

 a considerable time (e. g., three weeks), one often finds vacuoles. 

 Again, great extension of the spaces which occur in the palisade next 

 tlie lumen may be seen. The.se also are confined mainly to the 

 median cells, and the effect is due merely to a ivithdrawal of cyto- 

 plasm from the luminal towanl the coelomic side (fig. 12). 



V. Absoritiox of Proteids. 



Let us now examine some cells from intestines fixed at different 

 intervals after eating. Fig. 10, B, shows several cells from the 




1902.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



313 



intestine of au animal which had been starved eleven days and then 

 killed four hours after feeding (No. 7 of table). Besides ihe usual 

 alveolar structure and the interalveolar substance, are to be seen 

 definite aggregations of fine grannies. These masse.s may be at 

 almost any position in the cell, though rarely at an extreme distance 

 from the nucleus. The cell on the extreme right of Fig. 10, B, 

 is cut jiL*t to one side of the nucleus and in a plane in which the 

 granular substance is specially aggregated — a very common 



1^'^'iW^:' ■' ■ '3., .- 



2'. 



Fig. 10. — Sections X 270 from "mid-gut" of: A. Oniscus asellns, 16 

 hours after feeding witli raw beef, tixed in Fleuiraing's tiuid ; B, Porcel- 

 lio scabir, 4 hours after feeding with raw beef, fixed in 1 percent, platinic 

 cliloride 15 parts., 1 per cent, osmic acid 4 parts ; Zijin. Or., zymogen 

 granules appearing about the nucleus. 



arrangement. Often the masses are in actual contact with the 

 nucleiLs. When the nuclei are broken or shrunken, granules indis- 

 tinguishable from these are found about the nucleus or op^xisite the 

 break. There seems good reason, therefore, to state that this sub- 

 stance is being given out by the nucleus. I cannot satisfy myself, 

 however, that the nuclear membrane disappears or that the nucleus 

 suffers any visible change in the process. Fig. 10, A (No. 20 of 

 table), shows aggregations which are decidedly more definite. Figs. 

 11, A and B (Nos. 8 and 21 of table),'" exhibit some variations in 

 the form of these masses. All the figures thus far referred to are 



'"Tables I and II follow at end of paper. 




314 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Maj, 



of the auterior cells. In the cokimu of the table devoted to these 

 cells, wherever ' ' small granules in masses ' ' are mentioned, refer- 

 ence is made to the substance here spoken of. It will be observed 

 from this column also that in all fixations, except those which 

 blacken the cell contents, the granules are yellowish or brownish 

 even after staining. With the osmic fixations they are always 

 black. After such fixations they lake the stains used. The median 

 cells have not, up to sixteen lioui-s after feeding, imdergoue visible 

 change. 



x^'-'^-- 





itMvv.- -. ,^ i . 





my^' 



Fig. 11. — Cells X 6(10 IVom anterior portion of "mid-gut" of Porcelho 

 scaber : A, 8 hours after iL-cding ; B, 18 hours after feeding, hotli fixed 

 in 1 per cent, platinic chloride 15 parts, 1 per cent, osmic acid 4 parts. 

 Alb. Gr., albumose granules ; Zym. Gr., zymogen granules. 



In figs. 11, .4 and B, are seen numerous other larger and deeper 

 staining granules scattered in the finely granular substance of which 

 we have just been sjjcaking. In fig. A particuhirly they seem to be 

 quite definitely aggregated with reference to this substance. The 

 small granules come from the nucleus, and there can be no doubt 

 as to the origin of the large ones. Fig. B contains the sjime kind 

 of granules in the lumeu of the intestine, mixed with the coagulum 

 which represents the secretion of the hepatopancreas. Since fhe 

 food is almost pure proteid, and we know from the re.«earches of 

 Huet that the secretion of the "liver" is capable of changing 

 proteid to " jx-ptonc " (albumose), we may presume that some 

 product in this process may be found here. Fischer's researches 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 315 



on the effects of different killiug fluids on proteid bodies enable us 

 to decide this question v.ith a liigh degree of probability. He 

 classes albumoses among the " GranuL-rbildner "-that is to say 

 they are precipitated in the form of granules insoluble in water by 

 tannm, chromic acid, sublimate, platiuic-chloride, formal- 

 dehyde, osmic-acetic, Flemming's and Hermann's mixtures; and 

 they are precipitated in the form of granules soluble in water by 

 alcoho , acetone, picric acid, picric acid-alcohol, picric-sulphuric 

 acid {loc. cit., p. 33). The fixation method of determining the 

 presence of albumose would then be: (a) Precipitaliou with some 

 one of each of the two cla.^ses of fixaliyes (Fischer recommends 

 osniic-acetic and Hermann's for the first, and alcohol and picric 

 acid for the second); (i) washing both in water; (c) staining 

 witli some dye which ha.s a strong affinity for albumose (Fischer 

 recommends Altmaun's acid-fuchsiue-picric-alcohol). If albu- 

 mose is present it will be found in the fii^t case, and will be washed 

 out in the second. Figs. 1 and 2, Plate XVI, are from the same 

 region of two intestines fixed twenty-four houi-s after feeding the 

 former in Hermann's fluid, the latter in alcohol; both were washed 

 a long time m water (the former twenty-four hours, the latter 

 fafteen) ; they were carried through the same reagents together, and 

 fanally stained in precisely the same manner, namely, in 15 per 

 cent, acid-fuchsine in aniline water for fiye minutes at 54° C 

 then differentiated in picric-alcohol. (The effect of the picric- 

 alcohol cannot be shown in the figure.) Figs. 3 and 4, Plate 

 XVI, are from intestines treated as aboye after fifty hours from 

 time of feeding. 



In order to test Fischer's results more fidly, I haye performed a 

 number of experiments similar to hLs on proteids obtained directly 

 from Grubler's Laboratorium in Dresden. A summary of these 

 experiments is giyen in Table II. It will be seen that my results 

 confirm Fischer's in most respects essential to the precipitation of 

 albumose. There is but one noteworthy difference, namely that 

 whereas Fischer obtained from Grubler's hemialbumose " (prot- 

 albumose) a granular precipitate essentially like that from deutero- 

 albumose, I find only coagulum by HgC'l,. " 



Peptone (depur. sice, aus Fibrine, Griibler) seems to be a mix- 

 ture of albumoses and true peptones. It i.. altogether likely that 



" Several other fluids gave the same. ' ' 




316 PEOCEEDIXGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [M!ay, 



such a mixture occurs in the cells during absorptiou. I was unable 

 to get a precipitate of the true peptones, after the removal of albu- 

 moses by (NHJ^SO^, even by the strongest fluids (HgCl,, Flem- 

 ruiug's fluid, 1 per cent, chromic acid), which also is in agreement 

 with Fischer. We may safely conclude that the large granules 

 above mentioned contain alliumose, and as such they will be desig- 

 nated hereafter. '- 



The exact nature of the finely granular substance, pre'V'iously 

 mentioned as coming from the nucleus, may now be considered. 

 The very strong evidence that it is derived from the nucleus, and 

 the fact that it is associated with albumose granules in the cell, both 

 speak for a substance elaborated for the purpose of acting on the 

 food. Fig. 14, sixteen houi-s after feeding, from a fresh intestine 

 stained fifteen minutes in dilute Bismarck-brown, shows mas.ses of 

 granule.s about the nucleus. The appearance is .strongly suggestive 

 of zjTnogeuesis (see tigs. 20 and 21). Granules are very often 

 seen about the nucleus in fresh intestines not pre\'iously stained, 

 such as in %. 1 4, and are not therefore to be ascribed to the effect of 

 the fluid used. Since proteids can enter the cell only in the form 

 of solutions, we can scarcely suppose that we are dealing with any 

 stage of tlie food. If we may speak of the substance tentatively 

 as zymogen, what further evidence have we that it is destined for 

 ferment action ? When the lumen of the intestine contains secre- 

 tion from the hepatopancreas, as is always the case when this body 

 appears in the cells in large quantity, it is difficult to be certain 

 whether or not these granules are poured out to mix with the secre- 

 tion. If the quantity in the cell is great it is sometimes found on the 

 luminal side; but the definite aggregations, which occur most often 

 near the nucleus, are not found here, nor does one ever see distinct 

 evidence of a streaming through the intima. Now, considering that 

 inter-alveolar substance, witli which lliis is to be clas.sed, is capable 

 of being moved by tlie killing fluids, and that the penetration in the 

 cases mentioned is toward the lumen, it should be found on tiiat 

 side in greater (pianlity if it is destined for action in the lumen. 

 Notwitiistanding this evidence, however, and t he' further fact I liat, 

 although it is plainly different from the "liver" zymogen, no 

 secretion different from that of the " liver" can be distinguished 



" It will be nndcrstood, of course, that the granule is in realitj- a com- 

 pound of albumose with the precipitating lluid. 




]902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 317 



in the knneo, I ^-oukl not go so far as to say that it m.nj .ot escape 

 from the cell. The structure of the cell plainly adn.its this possi- 

 bility. A 1 we cau say at present is that where we might expect 

 evidence of its passage into the lumen, no evidence is obtained 



To sum up the evidence thus far: The granules as such come 

 from the nucleus; they are associated with food (albumose) in the 

 cytoplasm; they stain only with difficulty; finally, there is no clear 

 evidence that they escape from the cell. All these indicate an 

 mtraceHular ferment. If it is such we should expect that it ,vould 

 appear m the cell before the food does, or even before feeding 

 tig. 10, B, four houi-s after feeding, contains no albumose; It 

 rare y appears m the cell earlier than the eighth ],our after feeding 

 lu the table. No. 3 is one of several intestines from animals starved 

 two weeks and not fed before killing; small granules were foimd in 

 considerable number which do not take the Biondi-Heidenhain 

 stain. Again, McMurrich reports for starved specimens of 

 Armadilhdium some yellowish granules (which he regards as disiu 

 tegration products apparently identical with these). Finallv if 

 It IS an intracellular ferment it should be found in alUh,ovh\n<r 

 cells. The definite aggregations of granules which are found in 

 the anterior cells are seldom met with in the cells of the median 

 part^ Ho^vever, No. 44 of the table, killed in sublimate, stained 

 in Biondi-Heidenhain, exhibited in these cells "small poorly 

 stainmg granules on the ccelomic side" (also Nos. 13 and 18) 

 In neither of these cases are the granules in masses; they are scat' 

 tered all through the co^lomic end of the cell. While," therefore 

 the granules are abundant and definitely aggregated in all staged 

 of absorption only m the anterior cells (see Table I), they do occur 

 m all absorbing cells. There is evidence, which I shali consider 

 presently, that some of the small granules of feeble staining capacity 

 may represent a stage in the transformation of the food itself 



From eight hours onward to one hundred and twenty hours after 

 eeding albiunose granules may be found in greater or less quantity 

 in all he cells. The amount met with in any particular cell will 

 depend upon the accidents of its formation in the lumen The 

 coui-se It takes, once in the cell, seems to have no distinct reference 

 o the organization of the cell, except so far as that may influence 

 t mechanical y. Fig. 2, Plate XVI, twenty-four hours, and Fig 9 

 fresh, show the granules arranged in rows, following in a general 




318 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



p\Iay, 



way the coui-se of the fibres. lu these cases the albumose is phiiuly 

 uot influenced by the nucleus. If absorption goes on continually 

 for some time a mass of granules will be found after fixing, on the 

 co?lomic .side of the nucleus (Figs. 12, sixteen houi-s, and 4, 

 Plate XYI, fifty hours). 





m 



.■ » '.Tr • « . 



i 





rJ^~.Pn/ 



Fig. 12. — Absorbing cell X COO from median portion of "mid-gut" of 

 Oniscus aseUiis, 16 hours after feeding, fixed with Hermann's fluid. 

 Intima i.s torn off. Alb. Gr., albumose granules ; Pul., palisade ; Inter./., 

 intercellular fibre, showing continuity with the basement membrane. 



It has been shown by Fischer (I. c, p. 36 et seq.") that the size of 

 the granules of albumose depends upon the strength of the solution, 

 and upon the .strength — i.e. , precipitating power — of the killing fluid. 

 Thus he finds the average diameter of the granules precipitated by 

 Altniann's osmic-bichronsate mixture from a 10 per cent, solution is 

 l/i to 3,a; from a 3 per cent, solution, .7," to l.ou ; from 1 per cent., 

 .5,'i to .7,". Again, the average diameter from a 10 per cent, solu- 

 tion precipitated by Flemming's fluid is .7fi to l/i; by Hermann's, 

 .7.'x (fairly uniform); by 1 per cent, platinic-chloride, .7/x to l/x; 

 by 7 percent, sublimate, .4/ji to l;i and smaller. Tho.se represented 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 319 



ill fiffs. 8 and 9, Plate XVI, and in many other cells of the same 

 intestine, measure from . 5/i to 2,u ; they were precipitated with picro- 

 acetic." The granules in fig. 12 and several other cells of the 

 same intestine measure from .5;x to 1.5,a; they were precipitated 

 with Hermann's fluid. It is not important to attempt au exact 

 deteriuiuatiou of the strength in which the albumose may exist in 

 the cells; but the above figures indicate that it may be as strong as 

 a 10 per cent, solution, making allowauce for the fact that Fischer's 

 measurements w^ere made for pure solutions, whereas in the cells 

 they are of course mixed with other iuteralveolar substances. 

 Fischer notes that albumose in mixture with au albumen precipi- 

 tates larger granules than from pure solutions. He also observes 

 that precipitated from such mixtures they are not uniformly dis- 

 tributed through the coagulum of the albumen, but are collected 

 into small and large nests (" Anhaufung in Nesteru "). Figs. 8 

 and 9, Plate XVI, and others show this arrangement. 



A 





••• • *•• 

 • • • • 



Pig. 13. — Granules of Peptone (dcpur. sice, aus Pibrine), (Gtiibler) X 

 925. ^1, 2.5 per cent. ; B. 5 per cent, solution precipitated ou cover-glasses 

 bv Chromic acid (1 per cent.), stained in Iron-Hromatoxylin. See Table 

 If, Nos. (5) and (6). 



The occurrence of little spaces about each granule of albumose 

 in a coagulum of albumen, which Fischer has figured (Z. c. Taf., 

 figs. 2, 3, 4), is confirmed also by my figs. 6, 8 and 9, Plate XVI. 

 This fact enables one to determine with clearness the relation of the 

 granule to the alveolar structure of the cytoplasm. Thus, if the 

 granule were precipitated tvithin the alveole, and the structure were 



•'Picroacetic is said by Fischer to precipitate albumose in a soluble 

 form. I find this to be true if the tixation is followed by washing with 

 water, but if followed witli 70 per cent, alcohol the granules are not 

 dissolved in this or subsequent fluids. The same is true of picro-sul- 

 phuric. 




320 



PKOCEEDIXGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[May, 



not destroyed by the fixation, the space should correspond to the 

 neighboring alveoles in size — i. e., in such cells as that represented 

 in fig. 6, where the alveolas are so evident, the granule would be 

 plainly seen encased by the alveolar wall. Such an appearance is 

 seldom met with — indeed, the granule is often larger than the alveole 

 (figs. 9, 11, B, 9, Plate XVI). Again, in favorable place.« (figs. 6, 

 8, Plate XVI), the alveolar walls can be seen intersecting the space 

 about the granule.'* The space does not correspond, therefore, to an 

 alveole, but represents the area in the intei-alveolar substance mflu- 

 enced bj' the killing fluid to form a single granule. It appears, 

 therefore, that the soluble food is independent of the cytoplasmic 

 structure. 



Fig. 14. — Outline drawing (with camera x 5)0) of an optical section of 

 anterior cells, "mid-gut" of Oniscus ascllus, fed with raw beef; intes- 

 tine mounted in blood and stained 15 minutes in dilute Bismarck brown 

 (1 : 20,000) IG hrs. after feeding. The granules aliout the nucleus take 

 the stain and appear to be coming from the nucleus. This is precisely 

 the appearance of zymogenesis in the hepatopancreas when treated in 

 the same manner (tigs. 20 and 21). 



Ha\-ing distinguished the albumose granules from the rest of tlie 

 cell contents, we may inquire whether further chemical stages of the 

 food appear in the fixed and stained sections in a form distinguish- 

 able by the microscope. It was mentioned farther back (p. 317) 

 that evidence might be found for regarding some small granules 

 of feeble staining capacity jis a stage in the transformation of food. 

 In the first place, it must be stated that the digestion of the food 

 (raw beef) is pancreatic (i. e., alkaline") Qsee Sec. ix, a); and 



"Cf. Hardy's figures, loc. cit. 



"This we have on strong comparative evidence also. Thus Plateau 

 (24) demonstrated (a) that the reaction in the crop of the Carabidse and 

 Dytiscida' may be neutral before feeding, but is always alkaline after ; 

 (6) that the reaction in the "mid-gut " of the carnivorous chilopod Litho- 

 biu» is alkaline, in that of the herbivorous diplopod Julus may be acid. 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 321 



according to Neumeister' s (27) scheme, the first bodies chemically 

 recognizable in the tryptic digestion of proteids are deutero-albu- 

 moses. Now, deutero-albumoses , according to Fischer and this study, 

 behave as we have described under the general name albumose (see 

 p. 315). If granules appear before albumose is formed, therefore, 

 it is not probable (hat they represent food. May those in question, 

 however, not be albumose in a weaker solution, seeing that the 

 size of the granules depends upon the strength of the solution ? In 

 answer to this question two facts may be mentioned: (a) whereas 

 albumose granules take stanis readily, these granules stain with 

 difficidty; (6) where only a small number of albumose granules 

 are present they are usually very much larger than these (figs. 8 

 and 9, Plate XVI). If, then, any of the granules designated as 

 "small and poor-staining" (see Table I) are food, they must 

 represent a stage following albumose. Fischer has found the 

 true peptone (in Kiihne's sense) very difficult to precipitate, and 

 I have been imable to get any precipitate at all with killing 

 fluids from the filtrate after treating Griibler's preparations of albu- 

 moses with (NH<)jSO,. If the true peptone were precipitated in the 

 cell, the granules would in all probability be very small, and Fischer 

 finds them also very difficult to stain (wenig tinctionsfiihig). Both 

 these properties are exhibited by the granules in question. It is 

 possible, therefore, that some of the small non-stained granules 

 occm-ring with the albumose, or after albumose may be expected to 

 have been formed, are true peptone. Granting this, however, we 

 should still have to account for a, the appearance of the granules 

 of this description in the starving cells, and b, the origin of many 

 granules found in the living cells and in the fixed material imme- 

 diately about the nucleus. The ferment h^-pothesis is still necessary 

 to accoimt for both these facts. 



The attention of the reader will have been arrested bv the densely 

 staining mass represented in figs. 6 (text) and 8, Plate X^'I, lying 

 on the luminal side of the nucleus and extending toward the lumen. 

 It will be seen to consist of densely staining strands (fig. 8), matted 



Iloppe-Seyler (35) found llie action of the "liver" ferment of the cray- 

 fish Astacus fiiiciutiiis to be pancreatic and not peptic, altliough the 

 reaction was sliglitly acid. Krukenburg (26) has shown the same to be 

 true also of several Brachyura. Fnially, the general adoption of the 

 name liepatopaucreas for the digestive gland of the Arthropoda was in 

 recognition of the pancreatic nature of its secretion. 



•Jl 




322 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [JMaV, 



together and enclosing some albumose granules. In fig. 6 it con- 

 sists, for the most jiart, of a homogeneous deeply staining mass 

 enclosing a few granules. For a time I regarded these masses as 

 the food, and the strands stretching toward the lumen as direct 

 evidence that substances were being taken up by the nucleus. 

 In such cases as that shown iu fig. 8, Plate XVI, which are 

 numerous with varioiLS fixations, there seemed to be good reason 

 for thinking that the substance of this mass is passing iuto or 

 from a granular form, under the influence of the nucleus. 

 Where, as in this cell, the nucleus lies far out in the cwlomie 

 end, the mass seemed to be crowding it in that direction. A 

 number of considerations have led me to abandon this view. In 

 the first place, it was evident from Fischer's results that the food, 

 when it enters the cell, ought to appear, according to Neiuneister's 

 scheme, in the fonn of granules, not as a heterogeneous mass; 

 secondly, when the origin of the fine granules was traced to the 

 nucleus, another constituent of the mass was accounted for; thirdly, 

 when the alveolar structure was made out with certainty, the 

 homogeneous constituent was seen to be interalveolar in position. 

 In such cases as fig. 6, where the alveoles are particularly distinct, 

 the strands are not to be distinguished from the fibres except by their 

 extent. Not until the injection experiments, mentioned on p. 306, 

 were tried was it possible to account for the position of the mass 

 with reference lo the nucleus. Fig. 8, Plate XVI, is from an in- 

 testine killed in the ordinary way by penetration from the ca?lomic 

 side ; fig. 7, A, is from one which was injected with the killing fluid. 

 Since we know that the interalveolar substance, lo which all of the 

 constituents of this ma.ss belong, is free to move about in the cell, 

 it is clear that the position of the ma.«s is referable to the purely 

 mechanical effects of peueti'atiou of the killing fluid. The nucleus 

 acts as an obstruction to the streaming set up by the fluid ; and in 

 some cases a kind of eddy of the interalveolar substance is formed 

 behind it. In other cases the mass projects beyond the nucleus; 

 here it is possible that the interalveolar substances have been 

 checked by reaching the limit of concentration allowed by the 

 .spaces, and have been "fixed" in tliat position. Only by some 

 such supposition can I explain the remarkably straight edge pre- 

 sented by the mass on the side from which it came (figs. (5 and 8, 

 Plate XVI). .Still a further evidence that the mass is wholly artifact 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 323 



is that it occurs with clearness only in the elongated cells, whose free 

 ends are unprotected by a layer of muscle. We must conclude, 

 therefore, that what in the first instance appeared to be so clear a 

 case of cellular individuality in absorption, turns out to be only an 

 artificial massing; together of several of the cell constituents. 



To return to the albumose, we have seen that it accumulates on 

 the ccelomic side of the cell. It may be in contact with the base- 

 ment membrane, and practically fill the whole coelomic end. The 

 next subject to consider is its fate. It has long been known for 

 mammals that neither albumose nor peptone occurs in the circu- 

 lation ; in other words, the peptone is changed back to proteid 

 before it reaches the blood stream. We might expect that such 

 would be the case here also. The morphological support for this view 

 is positive, so far as it goes. In extracting and fi.xing intestines 

 some of the coelomic fluid is invariably found precipitated on the 

 outer surface ; and in studying whole intestines, I have had occasion 

 to precipitate large quautities of the coelomic fluid on the slide : 

 in no case have I seen albumose granules in the coagulum. 



In several intestines the coelomic end of the median cells was filled 

 with a precipitate which might be described as mottled in appear- 

 ance. There were no definite granules (Table I, Nos. 31 and 45), 

 nor could the formation be described as a coagulum. Inasmuch as 

 both these cases occur a considerable time after feeding, forty-two 

 and one hundred and twenty hours respectively, we may suppose that 

 the stage of the food represented is beyond albumose. Whether, 

 however, the mottled precipitate is an imperfect granule formation, 

 and this, instead of the small non- staining granules, represents the 

 true peptone, or represents an intermediate stage in the inverse 

 process toward albumen, I cannot say. In either case we would 

 have good evidence that the food undergoes some change inside the 

 cell. The intracellular ferment or ferments (for the zymogen gran- 

 ules may be of a complex nature) may be concerned in this change, 

 in which ca.se its association with albumose granules would be ex- 

 plained. 



VI. Function of the Typhlosole. 



We may properly discuss here the function of the infolded groove 

 of cells which has been spoken of as typhlosole. The first mention 

 of this structure which I have found in the literature is by Brand 

 and Ratzeburg (28), where it is spoken of as a " furche "in which 




324 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



the anterior part of the heart lies. Lereboullet (loc. cit.) described 

 it as well as could be expected with the magnifying powers at his 

 command, and recognized that it must be of some considerable sig- 

 nificance in the function of the intestine. He says: "On ne 

 saurait admettre que les rigoles soient destinees a augmenter 

 I'ampleur de 1' intestine; leur etroiteness et leur etendue liiuitee 

 sembleut contraires a cette opinion. Je ne crois pas qu'on puisse 

 les regarder comme des organes particuliers de secretion ou d' ab- 

 sorption " (foe. cit, p. 91). 



" Le seul usage probable de ces rigoles me parait ctre de recevoir 

 une portion de la bile pour la conduire dans li; milieu de 1' intestine, 

 afiu que ce li<juide se trouve repartir d'une maniere plus unifornie 

 dans toute I'c^tendue du ventricide chylifique. En effet quoique les 

 rigoles ne se coutinuent pas directment avec las deux embouchures 

 des utricules biliaires cepeudant on comprend que dans les mouve- 

 ments de contraction de I'estomac, une partie de la bile puisse 

 s'^couler par ces cauaux. On remarquera d'ailleurs que le ventri- 

 cide chylifique est presque toujours entiferement reinpli d' aliments, 

 en sorte que la bile pent eprouver de la difficidt6 a se parter jvisqu' 

 u I'extreniite de ce long boyau " (p. 92). 



Ide says: "Nous n'avons recueille aucune donn6e positive au 

 sujet de la fonctiou de la bande dorsale. On peut dire sans heresie 

 que cette production augmentc la surface d' absorption de 1' intestine; 

 nous avons constate en cffct, que les aliments au moins la partie la 

 mieux trituree penetrant dans les deux rainures qui longent la 

 baud" (loc. cit., p. 189). 



Conklin was the first, so far as I am aware, to apply the term 

 typhlosole to this structure. By analogy with other invertebrate 

 intestines, this name implies that the function of it is to increase 

 the absorbing surface. Schonichen finally ascribes to the structure 

 a possible secretory or excretory function, and supfwrts this view 

 by the fact that the dorsal blood-vessel breaks up into a plexus at 

 the place where the " Kinnen-apparat " ends. 



The observations with reference to the fmiction of the typhlosole 

 made in the course of this study are as follows : in the first place, 

 the cells of the typhlosole are looser in structure than tlic other cells 

 of the intestine (see p. 297). On this account they are very ]iro- 

 foundly affected by the killing fluid. When artifacts do not occur 

 in any other |)art of the intestine, it is a common thing to find the 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. o25 



typhlo.sole greatly ruptured (figs. 4, B, and Plate XVI, fig. 9). As 

 will be seen from the same figures, the killing fluids act most power- 

 fully on the intumed cells, just where the two streams of fluid, sep- 

 arated by the descending strip of muscle, are somewhat concentrated 

 in their action. Often with sublimate-acetic and other very powerful 

 reagents the upturned cells present horizontal " streams" of coagu- 

 lated substance, which seerns to indicate a movement of the cell con- 

 tents toward the outside groove. I mention these artifacts because I 

 was led by them at firet to ascribe a special absorbing function to 

 these cells. 



Fig. 9, Plate XVI, represents albumose granules fixed in the course 

 of passing through the cells of the typhlosole. We have then direct 

 e^^dence that these cells share the functions of the others in the 

 anterior end of the intestine, and confirmation of the view, expressed 

 explicitly by Ide and implicitly by Conklin, that the infolding is 

 for the purpose of increasing the absorbing surface. The quantity 

 of both kinds of granules, however, is small as compared with that 

 foimd in other cells. This may be due to the fact that in artificially 

 fed animals the intestine was not gorged to the same degree of full - 

 ness which is common in the natural conditions. On the other 

 hand, the fact that liquid food or secretion, or both, are often 

 found in the grooves of the typhlosole in such intestines would 

 indicate that these are not so highy specialized in these functions as 

 the others, and would lend weight to the view expressed by Lere- 

 boullet that the furrows pro^^de a means for the more ready passage 

 of the secretion to the middle of the intestine, insuring thereby a 

 more uniform mixture of the food and secretion. The. direct evi- 

 dence (exhibited in Table I) that the secretion is being poured into 

 the intestine as long as forty-eight hours after feeding, and the facts, 

 further: that under natural conditions the anterior end is often 

 clogged up with bits of dry food ; that in a freshly dissected animal 

 whose intestine is full, the inner grooves are seen to stand up above 

 the surface of the remainder of the intestinal wall, as if filled with 

 something — plainly not solid food; that the character of the food, 

 consisting as it does of substances often very difficult of penetration 

 by the digestive fluids, requires the most thorough distribution of the 

 secretion (which could scarcely be insured at the time of entering 

 the intestine) ; and, fiuallj', that the form of the typlilosole, narrow 

 in front and widening behind, so that the grooves may permit the 




326 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [jVIay, 



escape of the fluid secretion all along the line, and viud do so at 

 the extreme posterior end (figs. 3, 4), is such as the distribution of 

 the secretion would require — all these considerations seem to the 

 writer to constitute a strong chain of e%'idence that Lereboullet' s 

 view is the correct one, namely, that it is the primary purpose of this 

 stracture to distribute the seci'etion. That it did not develop on the 

 ventral side in direct connection with the opening of the glands, in- 

 stead of on the doreal side, is remarkable. Certainly, this would 

 seem to be the more natural position for a structure concerned in 

 the distribution of a secretion which enters on the ventral side; 

 because it would be the more certain of finding its way into the 

 channels if they occurred on this side. •' Nevertheless," as Lere- 

 boullet says, " one can midei*staud that in the movements of con- 

 traction of the stomach a part of the secretion (bile) may flow by 

 these canals." 



VII. Absorption of Carbohydratpb. 



This class of food substances is not at all favorable for a study of 

 absorption by morpliological methods. It is evident that none of 

 the reagents ordinarily employed as fixatives act on carbohydrates 

 in solution so as to render them visible to the microscojie. A 

 •word on the digestion of starches, however, may not be without 

 interest in this connection. Huet has found that the salivary glands 

 (whicli Ide calls cutaneous glands) of ifV/Za produce diastase, and 

 it is evidently to the secretion of this organ rather than to that 

 of the hei)atopancreas that he would ascribe the diastatic action 

 in the intestine.'" No effort has been made to confirm either 

 Huet's or Ide's conception of the nature of the glands in question. 

 It seems unlikely that a gland so small could liave much to do 

 with the action which we iiavc now to describe. 



Starved animals were fed on various kinds of starch, — cold-boiled 

 potato, corn starch, dry broad, etc. The former proved to beesjie- 

 cially palatable for some very large specimens of Oiii'icm which 

 happened to be on. hand at the time. They were allowed to eat 

 freely of it for half an hour, in which time the intestine was com- 

 pletely filled. Twenty-four hours after they were killed, and the 

 whole intestine subjected to Moore's test for sugar. Splendid 



"Sincf he found the diastatic action of the "liver" secretion of Ligia 

 only slight. 




1902.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



327 



reactions for dextrose were obtained iu a number of cases. Inas- 

 much as an effort was being made at the time to locate the dextrose 

 iu the cells, the other ordinary tests which require an alkali and 

 heat were of necessity excluded. However, the reaction was con- 

 trolled by trying intestines from animals known not to have eaten 

 starch; and no indication of dextrose was obtained. Intestines 

 were tested again fifty hours after feeding; and good indications 

 were obtained. 



Intestines like the above were tested also with iodine both twenty- 

 four and fifty hours after feeding. In several cases the median 

 arched cells gave a ' ' port-wine ' ' color at their free ends, indicative 

 of either dextrine or glycogen, with the presumption in favor of 

 glycogen. 



VIII. Absorptiox of Fats. • 



In studying the absorption of fats the same feeding methods have 

 been followed as for the absorption of proteids. Animals were 

 isolated and starved from four to ten days, then fed with butter. 





^!>,.«i: ■\Vif.|;.|>\;, 





■P^^^mSM^i^i^'' 



Fig. 15. — Section involving parts of two cells X 600 fioin anterior por- 

 tion, "mid-gut " of Porcellio scaber, fed with butter, and fixed after 8 hrs. 

 in 1 per cent. Platmic chloride 15 pts., 1 per cent. Osmic acid 4 pts. All 

 black granules outside the nucleus are fat. F.gl., fat globule encased 

 by spherical film ; Mus., muscle, circular layer inside, longitudinal 

 fibres'outside ; Nuc, nucleus. 



beef Jsuet or olive oil (the latter mixed with boiled potato, lo enable 

 the' annual to grasp the food with the mandibles), all of which gave 




328 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [MaV, 



good results. As might be expected from the habits of laud 

 isopods, not all of the fat taken from a pure diet of this kiud iu 

 the course of ten minutes' continuoas feeding is absorbed. Pellets 

 of waste containing a large proportion of fat were found forty-eight 

 and seventy-five hours after feeding. But enough (if the fat is 

 absorbed, as may be seen from the figures, both to demonstrate the 

 fat-digesliug power of the liepalopancreas ferment and to follow the 

 fat through the absorbing cells. Animals live indeiiuitely after 

 eating the above-mentioned foods, and have been seen to eat the 

 same repeatedly. 



The digestion of pure fat, like that of pure proteids, is rather slow 

 as compared with the action iu mammals. At eight hours after 

 feeding fatty globules may be seen in the epithelimu of fresh intes- 

 tines without the asjencv of stains. Fiij. 15 shows an anterior intes- 



;^7:fev.: 







Fig. IG.— Section involving jiarts of two cells X (iOll tVoni intermediate 

 portion, " mid-frut " of Porcellio sjn'nicornis, fed with butter; intestine 

 fi.\ed after 12 lirs. as in tig. 1.5. All black granules outside the nucleus 

 are fat. Int., inlinia ; Pal., palisade. 



tinal cell from an animal fed with butter for fifteen minutes, the 

 intestine fixed after eight houi^* in Hermaini's fluid without acetic 

 acid. The sections were stained in iron-ha;matoxylin. The 

 size of the globul&s varies greatly, the larger ones being doid)l- 

 less due to the fusion of several small ones. It will be seen also 

 that no large globules are found near the free luminal edge of the 

 cell, but tliat in general there is an iucrea.^e in size with the distance 

 from thi.s edge. This is t^i^ical of the appearance presented by all 

 ab.=orbing cells at an early s-tage in the absoqitinn. Later, as is 

 shown in fig. Ki (12 hrs. ), there is not so much tlifference iu size. 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 329 



From twelve hours after feeding ouward, just as in the proteid 

 absorption, the food is asuaUy aggregated mainly on the coelomic 

 side of the cell (figs. 17, 16 hrs. ; 19, 115 hrs. ), although as in figs. 

 18 (50 hrs.) and 10, Plate XVI, (24 hrs.) it may be still widely 



"'''.■••:''■•••■ ■'.•.••..••" /. 









Fisr. 17. — Section of cell X fiUO from median portion, "mid-gut" of 

 Porcellio scaber, fed with butter ; intestine IJxed after 16 hrs. as in fig. 

 15. All black granules outside the nucleus are fat. Nucl., nucleolus : 

 the chromatin is precipitated in short radiating strands immediately about 

 its periphery. 



scattered through the cell at a much later period. The difference 

 here is due in part to the different kinds of fat used — butter in figs. 

 15, 16 and 17, beef suet in 19 and olive oil in 10, Plate XVI — and 

 in part to the difference in form of the cells in anterior (15), in- 

 termediate (16) and median (18) portions of the " mid-gut."" 



Just as in the absorption of proleids, the passage of food through 

 the median cell is facilitated by the relatively easy exit from the cell 

 into the coelome, while from the anterior cells the passage is hin- 

 dered by the investing muscle layer. Consequently at any given 

 time after the digested product has reached all the cells, the median 



" The position of the fat in the cell is not affected by the direction of 

 penetration of the killing fluid, as may be seen from the fact that fig. 18 

 is from an intestine injected from tlie posterior end with Hermann's 

 fluid. There has been no movement of the fat on account of penetration 

 from within. 




330 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [^^ay, 



cells show a more advanced stage of absorption. Here also the 

 amount of food found at any given time in any particular cell is 

 dependent on the accidents of position, of form and of digestive 

 action in the lumen. 



The relation of the fat globules to the cj'toplasmic structure is 

 again interalveolar (figs. 18 and 19, A"). In both these figures 





\..r :- -' 



Fig. 18. — Section of cell X 600 from median portion, "mid-sut" of 

 Porcellio scaber, fed witli butler; intestine fixed after 50 lirs. in Her- 

 niiinn's fluid by injection from the posterior end. Nucleus is imper- 

 fectly fixed, and cytoplasm is slichtly diagrammatic. Fat globules 

 seldom inside alveoles. Pal., palisade ; intiina torn oil". 



fat globules appear to have penetrated the nucleus. This appear- 

 ance is due in the former to imperfect fixation, the chromatin not 

 being all precipitated (see section on structure of the nucleus) ; in 

 the latter the globules are in reality above, i. e., at a higher focus 

 than the nucleus. Xo fat granides are ever found in the nucleus. 



This last statement may fairly raise the question of the identifica- 

 tion of fat globiUes. In sections from intestines treated with osmic 

 acid and stained in iron-hfematoxylin (fig. 18) how, it may be 

 asked, are blackened fat globules to be distinguished from stained 

 chromatin granides ? Or, more broadly considered, can the fat be 

 «listiiigiiishetl at all by color reactions ? This question is iiuj)ortant 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 331 



because upon its answer depends, largely, the physiological inter- 

 pretation of the facts here presented. 



In the first place, it should be said that the choice of irou- 

 hsematosylin stain for the study of fat absorption was for the sake 

 of very decided advantages from the morphological standpoint. 

 The demonstration of the alveolar structure of the cytoplasm, for 

 example, is much more satisfactory with this stain than with any 

 other I have used. Fat globules may be quite clearly distinguished 

 from other granules, black after osmic acid and iron-hsematoxy- 

 lin, by merely deslaining to a considerable degree with the 1 per 

 cent, iron-alum .solution. Blackened deeply by osmic acid, they 

 retain their color after other granules blackened only by the stain 



3 Z««e_r-T^. V7. 



Fig. 19. — Sections of two cells X 600 from median portion, "mid- 

 gut" oi Porcellio scaber, fed with beef suet ; intestine fixed after 115 hrs. 

 in Flemming's fluid. Bl.c;/., blood coagulum ; Bm., basement mem- 

 brane ; Leuc, leucocytes containing fat. All black globules outside the 

 nucleus are fat. 



lose the color. This is the case in fig. 18; the black color in the fat 

 granules is due solely to the osmic reaction. 



Secondly, with acid fuchsine stain it is an easy matter to dis- 

 tinguish granules from fat globules. In fig. 10, Plate XVI, they 

 are shown retaining the osmic color, while all the other cell parts 

 are red. The nuclei which are not shown in these two cells were 

 also red. Figs. 17 and 19 likewise are from sections stained in 

 acid fuchsine ; the fat globules were all black, the nuclei red. It 

 has been seen (p. 315) that albumose granides take the acid fuchsine 

 in aniline water even after an osmic fixation. It is consequently 

 easy also to dislinguish the fat globules from albumose granules. 

 The food was pure fat or fat and carbohydrates mainly, and sec- 

 tions treated in the same manner as those in which albumose was 




332 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



demonstrated by this stain (namely, two to three minutes in a 7-15 

 per cent, solution in aniline water) always exhibit the blackened 

 granules only. In fig. 10, Plate XVI, some smaU red granules are 

 seen near the free edge of the cell ; the.se may be due to the small 

 amount of proteid in the boiled potato with which the olive oil w-as 

 mixed, or may represent small globules composed in part only of fat. 

 Thirdly, the final test of fats is always the action of fal solvent 

 — ether, xylol, benzole, etc. After most fixations, as is well 

 known, fat is easily dissolved out by prolonged Immersion in xylol or 

 ether. 



Thus the intestine from an animal knowu to have eaten only fat 

 after a starvation of one week was fixed after twenty-one hours, 

 first in 1 per cent, platinic chloride, washed in water and carried 

 through the alcohols in the usual way to harden. Instead of im- 

 bedding at once, it was subjected to the solvent action of xylol for 

 forty-eight houre. On sectioning and staining in acid-fuclisiue no 

 blackened globules were found in any of the cells. 



But after osmic acid fixations the authorities are not agreed as to 

 the solubility of fats in the ordinary solvents. Heidenhain (29) 

 argued that certain black granules in the absorbing cells of mam- 

 malian villi anil in the lym])h corpuscles were not fat because they 

 (lid not dissolve in xylol and ether, and- on this fact he based cer- 

 tain far-reaching conclusions. Altmann (30), however, and Moore 

 in Schafer's Text-book of Physiology (Vol. I, p. 458, note 5), -state 

 that prolonged treatment with (jsmic acid tends to render fat in- 

 soluble. This I can confirm from the following experiment con- 

 cerning fat globules in cells : 



Intestines from animals which ate butter for eight minutes after 

 a starvation of one week, fixed in Hermann's fluid without acetic 

 acid after .sixteen houi-s and treated with xylol, exhiliit abundant 

 blackened granules. In one ca.se (tig. 18) the intestine was fixed in 

 Hermann's fluid, and after the sections were mounted one of the 

 slides of the .-icries was sketched with the camera while ni oil of 

 cedar in j)reparation for balsam. The position of every globule in 

 the cell was noted. It was then placed in ether over night (fifteen 

 houi-s) and was again examined in oil of cedar, ^o change in the 

 globules had taken place. The slide was then placed in benzole for 

 four or five hours and again carefully examined ; no globules had 

 dissolved, although the color had faded noticeably. There is no 

 possibility of confusion with albumo.-ie granules in this case, a.s the 

 animal was carefully isolated for nine days before feeding and wa.s 

 then allowed to eat onlv butter for ten minutes. It was killed and 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 333 



the intestine was fixed after fifty hours, when many globules are 

 still to be seen in other slides of the series. 



The first experiment mentioned above furnishes additional proof 

 that the globules found in the cells are fat. Since there can be no 

 question about the identity of the globules in the second experiment, 

 it shows that osmium-fixed fat globules are practically insoluble in 

 ordinary fat solvents. This is not true of fat outside the cells — 

 that is, while stiU in the lumen. 



Sections of iutesline of an animal fed for twenty minutes on 

 butter and fixed after seveuty-five hours in Flemmiug's fluid with- 

 out acetic acid, were mounted and stained in acid-fuchsine in the 

 usual way. Instead of mounting in thick balsam, a large amount 

 of oil and a little balsam were placed on the section. The next 

 day the fat, densely blackened and enclosed by the epithelial wall, 

 was seen to be diffusing out, and in a week it was entirely dis- 

 solved by the excess of cedar oil. The cells of the epithelium, 

 however, still contained abimdant globides blackened by the osmic 

 acid. 



That the globules last mentioned did not dissolve may be ex- 

 plained b}' supposing the fat inside the cell to be mixed with some 

 coagulable substance. 



Butter spread on a cover-glass and treated with Hermann's fluid 

 for fifteen hours, then with ether (after dehydration), leaves a 

 coagidatcd residue which retains its black color for more than two 

 days Ln the solvent. Again, in teasing out in Hermann's fluid an 

 intestine which had been tilled with olive oil, it was observed that 

 the oil, mixed with the secretion of the hepatopaucreas, on escaping 

 in the form of globules, took a brownish color at the periphery and 

 the densely black color withm. The brown color may have been 

 due to fatty acid or to a film of the coagulated secretion. 



Finally, as Altmann has observed, decomposition products or 

 other diluting substances are probably responsible for the different 

 degrees of intensity with which the osmium-blackening occurs or 

 remains after treatment with solution agents (loe. cit., p. 98). It 

 is scarcely possible to suppose that the globules of fat inside the cell 

 are wholly immixed with the albuminous fliud contents of the cell, 

 or with the immediate products of digestion. 



The whole evidence for fat in the cells may be summarized as 

 follows: (a) Oily globules are seen in the cells of fresh intestines 

 from animals fed with fat; (6) these globules are dissolved by 

 xylol after fixation in PtCl, (and certain other reagents — HgClj, 




334 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



chromic acid, etc. ) ; (c) they slain densely black after all osmic 

 fixations; {d) they retain this color after staining with acid-fuchsine 

 in aniline water, and are thus distinguished from albumose gran- 

 ules ; (e) they retain the black color after iron-hsematoxylin and 

 destaining with iron-alum, and are thus distinguished from chroma- 

 tin granules, so that the granules inside the nucleus, which physically 

 very much resemble the blackened granules in such preparations, 

 are never oily in nature — in other words, the fat does not penetrate 

 into the nucleus in appreciable quantities; (/) the insolubility of 

 these granules in xylol and ether cannot be taken as an indication 

 that they are not composed in part at least of fat, for, as Altmann 

 observes, the solubility depends on the purity of the fat. Finally, 

 the insolubility of globules in such cases may be due lo admixture 

 with some albuminous fluid which precipitates in the formation of 

 the globule and constitutes its insoluble portion. 



Granting now that the globules found in the absorbing cells after 

 feeding with pure fats are really fatty in nature, it may be inquired 

 how they came there, whether they are absorbed as such or whether 

 they were synthesized from chemical products of digestion. In 

 short, for which theory of fat absorption — the emulsion or the solu- 

 tion theory — do the facts spejik '? Without going into a history 

 of this controverted question here, it may be pointed out, by way of 

 introduction to the interpretation of what follows, that the mori)ho- 

 logical evidence is scarcely crucial evidence in point. For, on the 

 one hand, it is claimed by the adherents of the solution theory that 

 if fat globules are not demonstrable in the luminal border of the 

 cell, but oidy after a portion of tlic cell has been travci'scd, then 

 fat did not enter the cell as such, but has been .synthesized some- 

 where in its cour.se since entering. Tlie enud.«ionists, on tlie other 

 hand, say it is just jis reasonable to suppose that the emulsion parti- 

 cles are so small that at the time they enter the cell they cannot be 

 seen with the highest jiowei-s of the microscope, and become visible 

 only when a number of them have fused together, as they 

 plainly do. 



The iso]wd, bccaiLse of its small size, is not favorable for a 

 chemical study of digestion. Consecjuently I have not attempted to 

 supplement the morphological study by that means. Nevertheless, 

 it seems worth while pointing out that the appearance here pre- 

 sented Is ail tliat is rc(iuircd by the solutionist.* for morphologica 




1902.J NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 335 



support to their view ; while it is difficult to reconcile it with the 

 emulsion view. Pfliiger (31) has used Heidenhaiu's figures to show 

 that fat does not appear in the striated border of mammalian epithelial 

 cells, and he declares, quoting Funke (32 ) and Will (33 J, that it has 

 never been so demonstrated except by KoUiker (34), who, as Pfliiger 

 says, wanted to see fat particles to substantiate his theory that the strife 

 are pores. My own observations on this point in the isopods were 

 begun with the purpose, primarily, of demonstrating the pores in 

 the chitinous lining (see p. 310). It was hoped that if fat is 

 absorbed in the form of emulsion, it would blacken densely in the 

 intima after osmic acid. Consequently particular attention has 

 been given to this point. About twenty-five intestines from ani- 

 mals in all stages of digestion, from four hours to 14.5 hours after 

 feeding, have been sectioned and each one examined carefully with 

 this point in view. In no case have I seen a single cell whose 

 intima contained demonstrable fat globules. (Note that in fig. 10, 

 Plate XVI, the intima is stained with acid-fuchsiue. ) It has been 

 previously mentioned that the globules on the luminal side of the 

 cell are always small in size, while they increase gradually farther 

 up the cell. This is manifestly what is required by the solution 

 theory, as has been recognized by Funke, Will, Altmanu, Krehl (35), 

 Pfliiger and others. If fat enters the cell in the form of fatty acid 

 and glycerine, or soap and glycerine, and these are then s}Tithesized 

 into neutral fats under the influeuce of the cell, the neutral fat 

 would naturally appear first in small globules at the luminal edge, 

 and these would iflcrease in size or in number, or both, the more 

 the products of digestion were brought under the s\'uthesiziug action. 



It cannot be denied, as urged by Heideuhaiu and others, 

 that if fat did enter the cell in the form of a fine emulsion, and 

 were then to fuse into larger globules, the same appearance might 

 be presented; but there is no assignable reason then why larger 

 globules are not formed in the membrane (intima of isopods) or 

 on the luminal side of the cell. In line with Will's results, it may 

 be remarked further that beef suet does not melt at the tempei'ature 

 of the isopod body (about 25° C. ), and cannot therefore be emul- 

 sified. Hence the globules in fig. 19 must result from synthesis. 



On the question of what effects the reverse action — the synthesis 

 of the products of digestion into neutral fats — I can do little more 

 than conjecture with others. Until recently no attempt has been 




336 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



made to seek out this agency further than to ascribe it to the epithelial 

 cells (see Moore's review of the subject in Schiifer's Text-book oj 

 Physiology, Vol. I, p. 452). 



Recently, however, Kastle and Loevenhart (36) have showu that 

 the ferment lipase extracted from the pancreas of the hog has the 

 power of bringing about the synthesis of elhel-butyrate from ethyl- 

 alcohol and butyric acid — a reaction evidently equivalent to the 

 S}Ti thesis of pal matin or stearin from glycerine and palmitic acid or 

 stearic acid. 



In considering the fate of albumose in digestion of proteids (see 

 p. 317), I have ventured to ascribe a ferment nature to certain gran- 

 ules derived from the nucleus. It may be conjectured that some of 

 these granules represent a ferment which has a fat-svnthesizing 

 action. 



Prof. Jloore, in Schiifer's Text- book (Vol. I, p. 457), says it is 

 agreed by all authors that " fat passes from the epithelium .... 

 in the form of an emulsion," and my acquaintance with the litera- 

 ture confirms this statement. I have found nowhere any intimation 

 that the fat does not pa.ss out of the cells as such. Even Levin (37), 

 who maintains that the water-soluble products of fat digestion in the 

 dog are taken up by the lymph cells only, and are by them conveyed 

 directly to the lacteals, while the epithelial cells are stimulated by the 

 bile and pancreatic juice to take up the fat itself, leaves the infer- 

 ence that the fat reaches the lacteal in the form of an emulsion. 

 The evidence for this very general o[)inion is ])laiiily that fat is always 

 found in the form of globules on the way from cell to lacteal, either 

 in the parenchyma cells of the xnllus or in the lymph cells. Hei- 

 denhaiu, Schiifer (38), Levin and many others have figured fat in 

 transit in this form, and the veiy name of the vessel which receives 

 the fat is witue.<s to the multitudinous ob.servations that the fat 

 reaches it in the form of tiny globules or an cnuilsion. 



Does it, however, follow that because the fat reaches the lacteal 

 as an emulsion or is found on its way thereto in this form, that it 

 therefore leaves the cell as such ? Does not the very physiological 

 reason for the spliiiiug of fats into fatty acids "and glycerine pre- 

 clude the possibilily of its pa-ssatre through the basement membrane, 

 uuiei-s we assume with Briicke (3!l) that there are discrete channels 

 foi- the passage of the food to the lacteal? If it is tnie, as Moore inti- 

 mates, that fat leaves the cell as sucli, then it ought to be preserved 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 337 



in the basement membraue by the osmic reagents. I have exam- 

 iued carefully all my preparations with the hope of finding some 

 such evidence, but have not found a single cell in an intestine 

 known to have contained fat which presented the expected appear- 

 ance. In one or two cases where the animal was fed with raw beef, 

 in which there may have been a slight trace of fat, the basement 

 membrane was found filled with small granules which blackened 

 densely with osmic fixations ; but as judged by the number of glob- 

 ules in the cells after a full meal of fat, there were entirely too 

 many of these for the small quantity of fat which it is possible to 

 suppose may have been contained in the beef, since particular care 

 was being exercised at the time to feed with lean meat free from 

 fat. Moreover, the cells presented coincidentally with these glob- 

 ules fragmented nuclei, — probably a sign of degeneration (see 

 p. 294). 



It is significant that while I was confidently expecting to find fat 

 globules in the basement membrane, none of the drawings made at 

 that time and reproduced here shows blackened globules even in 

 contact with the membrane, while some of them (fig. 18) show a 

 gradation in size downward from the region of the nucleus to the 

 basement membrane. At this time — sixteen hours after feeding — 

 fat was passing through the membrane, probably in small quantity 

 only, but in fig. 19, A and £, both from the same intestine, 115 

 hours after feeding, it must have been passing in considerable quan- 

 tity. In B of the last figure, fat globules are seen lying against 

 the membrane on the outside of the cell ; but here, it must be said, 

 the blood was precipitated on the intestine by removing the dorsum 

 and fixing the intestine in situ. Only in such cases have I found 

 fat globules immediately against the membrane in the coagulum 

 outside the cell. This coagulum is often found in this position even 

 on intestines fixed after removal from the body. The morphologi- 

 cal evidence, therefore, is against the passage of fat through the 

 membrane as fat. The conclusion must be that it is again split up 

 in the cell and resynthesized in the coelomic fluid.'** 



The same figure shows several leucocytes containing fat globides. 

 Their position along the membrane cannot, of course, be taken 

 to indicate a special agency in removing the fat from the cell, for 



^* Shortly after reaching this conclusion I received Loevenhart's (40) 

 paper, setting forth the same view from very different considerations. 




338 rROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Ma)', 



they are plainly subject to the physical action of the fixing fluid. 

 The fat globules are inside the cells, however, and this must be 

 accepted as evidence of their ability either to appropriate fal in 

 their own metabolism, or to transport it in the metabolism of the 

 body. I have seen nothing which would enable one to decide 

 whetlicr this action is anabolic or katabolic. 



IX. Secretion ix the Hepatopanceeas. 



Weber (41), who first accurately described the hepatopancreas, re- 

 cognized in its walls four distiDct layers : The serous membrane outer- 

 most, the muscular between this and the basement membrane, and 

 finally the epithelial layer. While it is the last named only with 



/• g^.. ;■■■■■■'■, •• ,•.;• 

 ■ '■• ■ •••«^ ■■"■■ • ■*' ■ ^ " 



■ • * *^:-:, ■ i '-^ '.' -v'"' 





■•;>-t:--. ":, '■ ^■■■' 





/ 





.^ym's 



Fist. 20. — Section of a single tut)e of llie hepatopancreas of PorcelUo 

 seaber X 120, sliowiiig discliarge of secretion by fragmentation and by 

 rupture of tlie cell membrane. Frag., fragments of cell passing into the 

 lumen; ^f zijm., mature zymogen passing into tlie lumen l)y rupture of 

 tlie cell membrane ; T.zym., zymogen in a young secreting cell ; Zym'g., 

 zymogenesis in a j'oung cell ; Nuc, nucleus of a mature cell. 



which we are specially concerned here, it may be mentioned iu pass- 

 ing that Weber's explanation of the form of the tubes by the 

 arrangement of the muscles is important as bearing on the dis- 

 charge of the secretion into the intestine (fig. 1). He shows in 

 his figure that the spiral twist which the tube appears to have 




1902.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



339 



undergone is due to the collection of muscle fibres into a more or 

 less distinct band which takes a spii'al course. Manifestly the peris- 

 taltic wave, beginning at the distal end and proceeding with greatest 

 vigor along this band, will be more effective for producing a uni- 

 form and constant motion of the fluid contents than would the 

 successive contractions of many separate bands. 



The epithelium in the average physiological condition is com- 

 posed, morphologically speaking, of two kinds of cells, namely, tall 

 conicill cells which project well Luto the lumen (often, indeed, 





Fig.' 31. — Section of single tube of the hepatopancreas of PorcelUo 

 seaber X 120, showing discharge of secretion by fragmentation of the 

 cells. The cell a is represented with higher magmflcatiou in fig. 23. 



almost meeting each other so as to obliterate the lumen) and, 

 between these, lower cells which project less — often not at all (fig. 

 20). At both extreme ends of the tube the two forms of cells 

 merge into one another and thereby constitute a uniform epithelium 

 which, at the distal end, terminates in a proliferating mass of 

 indifferent cells, and, at the proximal, passes over into the 

 epithelium lining the grinding stomach. The cells of the hepato- 

 pancreas reveal a ground structure in some points like that of the 




340 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[May, 



intestinal cells. Examined fresh, large oily-lookLag globules are 

 always to be found in the projecting cells, which, after most fixa- 

 tions, are represented by mere vacuoles. These increase in size 

 from the base toward the apex, and often quite completely occupy 

 the apical end, displacing the ground structure itself (fig. 22). 

 Between the vacuoles, in well fixed cells, are to be seen small alve- 

 oles which, if the vacuoles be large and close together, are more or 

 less distorted by the pressure. Between the alveoles and covering 

 them, often so densely as to obscure them, are tiny granules repre- 

 seuiiuu- iuteralveolar substance and alveolar conleuts. After some 



,/^-' 



mwmM^^£^ 



Zytn 



Fig. 32. — Cell a of fig 21 x 600. Escape of the secretion by rupture 

 of the niemhianc at the free end of the cell. Vac, vacuoles from which 

 the globules of zymogen have been dissolved by the fixing fltiid and 

 other reagents ; Zijm., zymogen granules disintegrating. 



fixations, notablj' those containing sublimate, the cells appear to 

 have a coarse fibrOlar structure ; but as this is not to be seen either 

 in the fresh cell or after Hermann's, Flemmiug's, or Hermann's 

 without, acetic, it has been regarded here as an artifact similar to that 

 produced in the intestinal cells." 



''Frenzel (46) sees a fibrillar structure in the "liver" cell of the 

 marine isopods, relying on picro-sulphuric fixation. He does not, how- 

 ever, figure this for Onisctis murarius, on which he used osmic acid. 




1902.] NATURAL SCIEKCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 341 



Each secreting cell has one or two, rarely three, nuclei. When 

 there are two, which is by far the most common number, they are 

 most often abreast of each other, at the same height from the base 

 and at equal distances from the lateral walls (fig. 23). The form 



Fig. 23. — Section of a mature fell, X 600, of the bcpatopaucreas of 



Oniscus asellus, only uioderatelj- filled witli zymogen. The gradation in 



size of the granules from base to apex of the cell is well seen here. 



Fixation, Flemming's fluid. Observe a space about each of the larger 



■ globules. Compare fig. 15. 



of the nuclei in the fresh condition is ellipsoidal or siDherical. 

 After several fixations it may present processes of various size and 

 extent, but these again are to be ascribed to the imilateral peneti-a- 

 tion of the fluids (p. 305).'° 



^"Prenant (43) has mentioned such processes toward the base of the 

 cell as occurriug after Flemming's fixation, and has interpreted them as 

 analogous to those which were described by Conkliu in the intestinal cells; 

 also to those described by Korschelt for the nuclei of silk glands of the 

 Lepidoptera and of the egg cells of Dytiscus. The fact that the pro- 

 cesses are turned toward the source of nourishment and opposite the 

 direction of penetration lends some probability to Prenant's view, 

 whereas, in line with the results obtained by injection into the lumen of 

 the intestine, one would expect the processes in this case to extend 

 toward the lumen if caused artificially. In the absence of positive evi- 

 dence from the experiment of injecting into the lumen of the hepatopan- 

 creas, which is very difficult on account of the small size of the tubes, it 

 might be urged further in explanation of Prenant's observation, first, 

 that Flemming's fluid is known to cause processes in the nuclei of the 

 intestinal cells ; secondly, that occasionally in these cells processes are 




342 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [MaV, 



The constituent which gives character to the cells under considera- 

 tion is the zymogen (figs. 20-23). In the fresh condition it is 

 always seen as a dense mass of spherical yellowish granules sur- 

 rounding the nuclei of the smaller cells. They are but rarely seen 

 in the tall cells, the most obvious constituent of these being, as we 

 have observed above, the oily-looking globules. On this account 

 Weber called the smaller the " ferment cells, " as opposed to the 

 larger or "liver cells." Kosenstadt (44) for Asellus, Giard and 

 Bonnier (45) for the parasitic Isopods and Frenzel (46) for the 

 marine forms, as well as for Oniseus vmrariiis, do not admit this 

 distinction made by Weber. Claus says they are only extremes 

 of the same kinds of cells, in no way to be distinguished. Frenzel 

 regards the smaller as young cells and the larger merely as a later 

 or older phase. He concludes, therefore, that the isopods arc to be 

 classed with the Phrouimidie, in that they produce both ferment and 

 fat in the same cell, as over against the decapods, the Gammaridje 

 and Caprellida;, which produced these in separate cells. Ide is in- 

 clined to adopt the view of Weber, ily results confirm Frenzel, 

 as will appear in the following discussion. 



The beha\'ior of the zymogen granules with reference to reagents 

 is as follows. As was observed by Huet, I hey are speedily dissolved 

 out by both water and alcohol. Reference to Table I, where are 

 brought together data from a long series of different physiological 

 conditions, shows that they are not preserved by alcohol (Nos. 24, 

 36, 38), only partially by picro-acetic (29, 43), and sometimes not 

 by sublimate (28, 31), nor by sublimate-acetic (3, 9, 11, 13, 22, 

 41, 42, 44), nor formo-alcohol (32). They are always preserved 

 by Flemming's, Hermann's and Hermann's without aectic (also 

 osmic-acetic and osniium-bicliromate, Altmanu's). It will be seen 

 also from the table that they are sometuncs preserved in the small 

 cells and not in the large ones (Nos. 11, 13, etc.), sometimes 

 again in both kinds of cells, where they appear precisely alike (Nos. 

 15, 18, 26, etc.). With the osmic fi.xations, particularly the 

 platiuic-chloride-osmic acid mixture, they behave a little differently 

 in the two kinds of cells. The densely aggregated granules about 

 the nuclei of the small cells come through the stains wholly un- 

 seen extending opposite to the direction of penetration, while they are 

 also occnsionally seen in the cells of the hepalopancreas, extending to- 

 ward the lumen after fixation ; tliirdly, as was remarked in the begin- 

 ninK, nuclei in the fresh condition are remilarlv curvilinear. 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 343 



affected, exhibiting a browu color, plainly the characteristic osmic 

 color. Those in the base of the large cells, on the other hand, take 

 the stains. Thus in Nos. 21, 25, etc., slaiued iu irou-hsema- 

 loxylin, they appear brown and black respectively, while in No. 35, 

 stained in acid-fuchsine, brown and red. After picro-formalin 

 also (No. 16) those in the large cells stain red in Biondi-Heiden- 

 hain, while those in the small cells remain unstained. 



In Nos. 1 and 2 there is a complete transition from one color to 

 the other, some retaining no stain, others retaining only a light 

 shade or onlj^ a jjeripheral ring of black, still others holding it 

 densely. Moreover, the transition does not stop at granules of the 

 same size ; among those in the large cells which hold the slain most 

 tenaciously there is a perfect gradation from small granules to large 

 globular masses (fig. 20). The latter correspond to the contents of 

 the vacuoles mentioned above (fig. 22). We have evidence, 

 therefore, that the two kinds of cells are, as Frenzel holds, but the 

 young and mature phases of the same kind. Our evidence goes a 

 step farther. Frenzel found both zymogen granules and fat globules 

 in the same cell, and from this concluded that all the cells produce 

 both, the ferment during the early life and fat later. Now we 

 have been able to trace a complete transition from the zymogen 

 granules to the large globules, merely by securing a good fixation for 

 all the cell constituents. The indication is, therefore, that we have 

 to do not with two distinct products, but with different stages in the 

 formation of a single product. 



Before going farther with the present discussion it will be neces- 

 sary to present the changes which the cells undergo in secretion. 

 Fig. 21 represents a cross-section of No. 10 (Table I) preserved 

 twelve hours after feeding — this following a fast of eleven days. 

 In this case the large globules are not preserved, only their vacuoles 

 being seen. At the bottom of the cells are masses of zymogen 

 granules, some of which are becoming less distinct in outline, others 

 are represented merely by a dense mass of small granules. Fig. 

 20 (No. 20), sixteen hours, after a fast of twenty-one days, shows 

 the large globules preserved. In the former case, as well as in the 

 latter, the ends of some cells have broken down and are undergoing 

 a process of disintegration. Sometimes the whole end of the cell is 

 involved in this destruction, or the end may break up into large or 

 small fragments, or finally break off as a whole, and the larger or 

 smaller pieces are then found in the lumen as far down as the canal 




344 PROCEEDrSGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [MaV, 



which leads to the intestine, where they may lodge for a time and 

 temporarily block the passage. In other cases still the globules 

 only seem to be set free ; while the small zymogen granules seldom 

 come near the discharging end. The nuclei are not lost, nor is any 

 part of the cytoplasm below them.'" 



After complete discharge the cells diminish rapidly in height 

 until they are quite flat. Even at this size they are easily to be 

 distingui.«hed from young cells, which may as yet be no taDer than 

 they, by the absence of small zymogen granules about the nucleus, 

 by the shape of the globules or globular spaces, and by a thickening 

 of the free edge (when Ihis is not lost). The last two effects are 

 caused by a retraction, as if the cells were elastic. A\'hen dis- 

 charged the spaces occupied by many of the globules are obliterated, 

 and a thickening or moving together at the free edge occurs, form- 

 ing a layer which always stains densely (fig. 21) (this is the thick- 

 ening just mentioned). Those globules which are not discharged 

 suffer a change of form by compression, so that they are always 

 laterally elongated. I have not so far been able to follow the fate 

 of the discharging cells further than this, or to obtain further evi- 

 dence that they are completely destroyed and replaced by new cells. 



It will be observed from the table that di.schargiug cells may 

 occur at any interval after a single meal up to 124 hours (No. 44), 

 although there is a marked decrease in the number after forty- 

 eight hours, and in some c;i.ses hardly any are to be found at ninety 

 hours (Nos. 40, 41, 42). 



In a single case (41) some of the young cells seem to be dis- 

 charging a fluid substance ; but as the ti.\alion is one which does not 

 always preserve the zymogen, and it has not been confii-med by any 

 perfectly trustwortliy fixation, no account has been taken of it here. 



By whatever process the discharge takes place — fragmentation, 

 dissolution, or mere evacuation — in every case there issues the fluid 

 whose precipitate gives the characteristic coaguhmi. Fig. 20 shows 

 some of the globules maintaining their identity for a time, but 

 sooner or later dissohnng. They are not the only source of the 

 flui<l, for, ixs in fig. 22, which contains a very abundant interalveolar 

 sul)>lance, this sis wtU as the alveoles of the cells contribute to its 

 formation. As we have already obsen'ed, small zymogen granules, 



"'In one or Iwo cases of excessive feedinir. where tlie cells become 

 enormously gorged with a .siitjstance wliicli stains blue in Biondi-llei- 

 denhain, after Zenker and sublimate, the nurlei may be displaced and 

 lost in broken-oir fragments (Xos. 14 and 46, table). 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 345 



which are readily distinguished by color, do not contribute directly. 

 Some of these appear to dissolve without being confined to a glolnile 

 (as in the bottom of fig. 15), to be added to the ioteralveolar sub- 

 stance which precipitates in the form of very fine granules. Close 

 comparison of this with the precipitate from the globules, as well 

 as close scrutiny of the precipitate found in the lumen, fails to 

 reveal any difference corresponding to granules and globules. 



It would be unwise to attempt, from the facts thus far reached, 

 to show that there is no chemical difference between the various cell 

 constituents which ultimately share in the formation of the secre- 

 tion, or still more that no corresponding differences are retained 

 throughout the existence of the secretion. There is every reason 

 for thinking that the secretion is far from simple in nature. So far 

 as they bear on the occurrence of fat, however, the facts just re- 

 hearsed seem to speak very positively. Both ^^^eber and Frenzel 

 base their assertion that the globules contain fat on the osmic reac- 

 tion and on the action of fat solvents (ether). Nothing is here urged 

 against the facts alleged by these authors. What seems fatal against 

 concluding therefrom that the substance in question is pure fat is 

 that, as we have seen, it is never represented in the coagulum of 

 the secretion by globular spaces such as fat ought to leave, and 

 such as it always does leave when dissolved after fixation. The 

 globular masses which sometimes come out of the cell as such, and 

 do exist in the fresh secretion as oily-looking drops, invariably, so 

 far as my observation goes, precipitate as a dense coagulum, not to 

 be distinguished from the remainder of the secretion. What then 

 is the nature of the globides '? Aside from their oily appearance, 

 nothing occurs in the literature reviewed which throws much light 

 on their nature as they are to be seen in the fresh condition. Suffi- 

 cient prominence has not been given either to the fact that in this 

 condition they are to be seen in all sizes. They are usually much 

 clearer looking than the zymogen granules, but even in this respect 

 the limits are not sharp. Frenzel mentions the fact that the oil 

 globules in lone, Gyge, Idotea hectica and Sphceroma have almost 

 always a definite color, " namely, in the first three greenish-yellow 

 (wie das Secret), in the least one a brownish-yellow." 



The conclusion which appears very evident from the foregoing is 

 this: zymogen granules are merely young stages of the large glob- 

 ules or, conversely stated, the globules are but a matured state of 

 the zymogen granules. The difference as to form, color, behavior 




346 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEM'X OF [May, 



toward fixing fluids and staining capacity is due to a differ- 

 ence in purity. The granules, densely packed about the nuclei 

 of the young cells, are in a nascent state, consisting of a pure 

 ferment-foruiiug substance. In the larger cells — that is, as the 

 young cells mature — the zymogen takes up fatty substance from the 

 cytoplasm, and this dilutes the ferment-forming body, at the same 

 time rendering it more soluble in certain reagents and improving its 

 capacity for certain stains. 



a. — Relation of Secretion to Feeding. 



The column of Table I headed " Secretion in liunen " exhibits 

 the relation of the quantity of secretion in the lumen and its pas- 

 sage into the intestine to the stages of absorption of proteids (raw 

 meat) exhibited in the last columns. Owing to the method of 

 removing from the animal the intestine and hepatopancreas, by 

 which their connection is often broken, the later datum wa.s not in 

 all cases to be had. It will be seen, however, that beginning with 

 fresh condition — that is, animals taken quite at random from the 

 natural habitat— and passing through the starved condition (Xo. 3) 

 up to 124 hours after feeding, and to an animal kept a whole week 

 on raw meat, there is almost always an " abmidance" of the secre- 

 tion in the lumen. In a few cases, as No. 3 (starved) and 42 

 (ninety-eight houre after feeding), the quantity in the proximal end 

 of the tube is small. There is no very marked decline, although it 

 might well be expected in the course of another day or two of fasting. 



The chemical reaction of the secretion, as determined by leasing 

 the "liver" on litmus paper, is slightly alkaline for animals taken 

 from the natural slate. The staining aflinity of the secretion seems 

 to vary. Thus in 13 and 22, both of Oniscus, starved twenty-one 

 days and killed sixteen and twenty hours respectively after eating 

 in the same fluid and treated j)reci.sely alike (stained in Bioudi- 

 Heidenhain), in the one case the secretion takes the methyl green, 

 in the other the i)la.«ma ?sain and ct)nies out red. A number of 

 such intestines have been seen, and both colors have been seen in 

 the some intestine. If the staining is a chemical reaction, and there 

 seems to be no doubt of it in this ca.se, we nuist conclude that the 

 reaction of the sccreli'm must vary fwm acid to alkaline (as deter- 

 niinai by Biondi-Heidenhain stain as an indicator). Kot enough 

 cases have been noted to establish any cycle of such change, or to 

 relate it in any way with the quantity or kind of f(«id. It is inter- 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 347 



esting, in this connection, to note that Krukenburg (26) has found 

 a similar difference for Cuvcinas mcenas. 



Huet lias shown that the secretion of the hepatopancreas acts on 

 the proteids (muscular fibre and albuminoids generally, white of 

 egg, coagulated protoplasm of vegetable cells, etc. ) in PorceUio 

 scaber and kevis ; on starch very slightly in the case of lAgia ; wliile 

 on fats he obtained only negative results (slightly emulsifies oil of 

 olives). He concludes that the secretion is " not a true bile." 



It has been seen in the section on the absorption of proteid that 

 albumose appears in the intestinal cells in eight hours (in one case 

 it was detected in four hours) after feeding. No attempt has been 

 made to establish ultra-miuimum time for the appearance of dex- 

 trose in the intestine after feeding with starch. The least time 

 noted was twenty-four hours. There is good evidence that the 

 ' ' liver ' ' secretion accomplishes the hydrolisis of fat. We may 

 conclude that the secretion of the hepatopancreas contains ferments 

 which act on all classes of foods. 



X. Summary and Conclusions. 



1. The apparatus concerned in the absorption of foods and the 

 production of secretion in the laud isopods consists essentially of 

 simple tubes, the intestine aud hepatopancreas, bathed and separated 

 by the blood. 



2. That part of the intestinal wall concerned in absorption is a 

 single-layered epithelium comj^osed of very large cells. That part 

 of the hepatopancreas concerned directly in the formation of secre- 

 tion is a single-layered epithelium, composed of smaller, young cells 

 and larger, maturing or matured cells. 



3. The intestine in the freshly hatched individual, a simple 

 tube, grows by amitosis, especially at the time of moulting, as well 

 as by enlargement of the cells. In ttie mid-dorsal line of the an- 

 terior portion a folding of the wall occurs later, giving rise to a 

 structure which we have called, after Conklin, the lyphlosole. The 

 typhlosole arises in PorceUio spinicornis by a primary evagination 

 of the median six longitudinal rows of cells; there is then a sec- 

 ondary invagination of the median two rows, which project into the 

 lumen and extend laterally by their free margin so as to cover the 

 lateral inner grooves formed at the sides, thereby cutting off, except 

 at the posterior end of the tyj)hlosole, two channels, more or less 

 completely separated from the remainder of the lumen. 




348 PEOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [MaV, 



4. The intestinal epithelium is a syucytiuni, the cytoplasm 

 being continuous from one cell to another. Intercellular fibres, 

 together with furrows in the basement membrane and iutinia, serve 

 to mark off the cells distinctly. 



5. The cytoplasm of the intestinal cells is alveolar in structure. 

 Between the alveoles Ls a homogeneous substance which ])recipitates 

 as a finely granular coagulum. Intracellular fibres run between 

 the alveoles; at the luminal side of the cell they are parallel and 

 are greatly thickened so as to form a palisade from the intervals in 

 which the cytoplasm may be excluded. 



6. The nucleus of the intestinal epithelial cells is normally 

 spherical in all physiological conditions ; it is alveolar in structm-e 

 in the fresh condition, and contains in "perfectly" fixed material 

 numerous large granules of chromatin. 



7. In the moult of the chitiuous lining of the intestines the 

 coelomic side of the epithelial cell rarely suffers any change. The 

 luminal side undergoes the following changes : the thickened ends 

 of the fibres disappear; the alveolar structure at the same time 

 becomes concealed by a fluid substance which precipitates in killing 

 fluids in the form of fine granules. The new chitin is i>robably 

 formed by some process of hardening this .«ubstance. After the 

 new lining begins to appear, delicate fibres are seen on the luminal 

 side of the cell. The strength of the palisade on the luminal side 

 varies directly with the time from the last moult. 



8. The land isopods after a period of starvation will eat various 

 kinds of jiure foods. 



9. Starving for a considerable time (three weeks) produces the 

 following changes in the inte-stinal cells: the interalvcohir substance 

 is reduced in quantity; the cytoplasm may withdraw fram the 

 luminal side, leaving elongated spaces between the fibres ; vacuola- 

 tions may appear else^rherc in tlie cytoplasm. 



10. After feeding a starved animal for ten minutes ou finely 

 chopped raw beef, before any food Is visible in the cells, definite 

 ma.sses of fine granules appear about the nucleus. Some of these 

 at least come from the nucleus. They increase in number up to 

 thirty hours after feeding. We have designated this granular 

 substance as an intracellular ferment. 



11. Eight houi-s after feeding a star\*ed animal with finely 

 chopped raw beef, alI)umose appears in the intestinal cells. The 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 349 



course of the albumose through the cells is uninfluenced by the cell 

 structure, except in a purely roechanical way. In traversing the 

 cell it behaves independently of the cytoplasmic structure. Albu- 

 mose may accumulate on the coelomic side of the cell from sixteen 

 hours onward after feeding. Judging by the size of the granules 

 formed by precipitation with killing fluids, albumose may exist in 

 the cell in as great as a 10 per cent, solution. Albumose has not 

 been found in the coelomic fluid. It is probable that the intra- 

 cellular ferment is concerned in the change of food from the 

 albumose stage to a later stage of the hydrolisis (peptone) or to a 

 stage in the inverse process toward albumen. 



12. The cells of the typhlosole absorb soluble foods. The 

 primary purpose of the structure, however, is to provide channels 

 through which the secretion of the hepalopancreas may flow, un- 

 obstructed by solid food, to the median portion of the intestine. 



13. Dextrose is found in the intestines of animals which have 

 been starved, fed on potal o starch, then kUled in twenty-four hours 

 from the time of feeding. 



14. Microscopical study of the absorption of fats indicates : (a) 

 That this class of foods is hydrolized by the digestive secretion of 

 the heatopancreas ; (b) that they are absorbed in the form of cleav- 

 age products, and (c) are at least partially STOthesized into neutral 

 fats under the influence of ferment action inside the cell; (d) they 

 leave the cell not as discrete fat particles, but probably in the form 

 of cleavage products; (e) they appear in the blood coagulum and in 

 the blood corjjuscles as neutral fats, reducing osmic acid and not 

 staining with acid-fuchsine. 



15. The hepatopaucreas contains but one kind of secreting cells. 

 In a young stage these cells contain zymogen granules in nascent 

 condition, densely massed about the nuclei; as the cells mature the 

 zymogen granules take up from the cytoplasm fatty substance, 

 whereby they become larger, looser in structure, more soluble in 

 many fixing fluids and more receptive of certain stains. The fer- 

 ment thus matured is set free into the lumen by (a) fragmentation 

 of the cell, (b) dissolution of the cell, (c) evacuation from the 

 cell. 



16. The secretion of the hepatopaucreas thus elaborated con- 

 tains ferments which act on the three classes of foods — proteids, 

 carbohydrates and fats. 




350 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[May, 





• tn 



i 8 g_ 



, C3 



^ s c5 



O o 2 



QQ 



~ & it 



fe = 



cs 





c 



a to 



c r: c^ 



kI. 55 



s 



03 



C3-; 

 S >» 







OS 5 S 



<u 



^S 



<;.s 



5 o 



It 



"Co 



c 

 a 



X .a 



?i to ^ 



c! C O 



s u S 



si 



§o 



g 3 



•S* 



•5" 



^ £ £ e 



•r S — 3 

 c,x o a 



•ON 




1902.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



351 



=5^ 



I "1 



<s ^ " 



cs c 



bljCg 



CCS 



a 



: ai ;^ 



cj o X 











i J ft 



r" .2: ~ • 



. .5 



.£ ^ 



1 = m « 





5 Q 



ss 





P o 



.:: CO 




352 



PEOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Maj, 



n 



•OX 




1902.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 



353 



^ fci) 



■a 

 c 



o 



a 



03 rr — 

 flj I— I ^ 



g 8 



02 



3 n . 



O Ph 



= 8 g 



s3 ^ 3 



-e o o 



^ CO 



Oil 







•= 8 



" — s ^ 



- c S 



OS 





5 s'^ 



3 " 



2 § s 



. > 







cc s i: 



r a ^ 



c3 O 



cc 'z 



>-.~ ^ 



83 



a 



3 



o . 



a 

 O 



too 

 53 



a 



o 



_< QQ 



bOaJ 



^1 



C r3 



•a o 



c t 



o _5 



be.;: .2 

 P-o .5 



-gill 



^ o 



<S:5 



so 



!« -'^.=1 



^ a - 



C3.X 



S t 



&' 





=3 z 



3S 



3 

 02 



c3 



PU 



C3 



23 




354 



PKOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[May, 




190 .] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 355 



o -; 



^?^0 O ScMrt C fees O 



tn 



m'3 2 



S C; i^ ^ • — ^-^ ~ ^ ^ o tn ^ S 



- w-;:^4 5 S S 2 .= go j- u => H i - ? 



■^Xl 5)3 -;: e^g M 



^^ S. ^ 



&. f^ fe ,7 3 



o " _:: 



S?--:^:5 -2 fe O ;. =:So ta Z'^ 



3 r! ?; bO 



= 6 S 



0-2 



a.- 



<i — < 



> — — 



« ^ 



a a *rr^bo — fcD t; 



-- -Ja -oa - 



o a ut-s --a o 



■-r^™ a > aoo .^o a 



OS" 5 5 oS=*> ^=^ = 



X , _- m 



^a'lJ a.' fcfifc/i '^"^ 



p ;g i2 a ►« tc "= =\^ 3 



" " '" ° ■- .S o P t" 



— a o t, o 



j" "3 





m 




356 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[May, 




1902.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



357 




"358 proceedings of the academy of [may, 



Bibliography." 



(1) Fischer, A. Fixiruug, Farbung und Ban des Piotoplasnias, Jeua, 



1899. 



(2) Van Gkhuchten. La Cellule, VI, 1890. 



(3) IDE, M. La Cellule, VIII, 1892, p. 99. 



(4) CONKI-IN, E. G. Amer. Xat'l, Jan., 1897. p. 66. 



(5) McMoKUiCH, J. P. Jourii. Morph., XIV, 1897, p. 83. 

 (6> ScHiiNicHEN, W. Zeilschr. f. wis. Zool., 1898, p. 143. 



(7) Ili-ET, L. Journ. d. I'Anat. et do la Pbvs., XIX, 1883, p. 241. 



(8) Leukboullet, a. Mem. sur les ciustacus de la famiUe Cloportides, 



etc., Strassburg, 1853. 



(9) Lee, A. Bolles. La Cellule, XI, 189.'5, p. 37. 



(10) Carnoy. La Cellule, I, 188.5, p. 100. 



(11) Von Bamheke, C. II. Arcbiv. de Bioloirie, VH, 1887, p. 349. 



(12) Zieglek, II. E., uud vom Rath, O. Biol. Cenlrlbl., XI, 1891, 



p. 744. 



(13) Fkenzel, .7. Biol. Centilbl., XI, 1891, p. 558. 



(14) LOwiT, M. Biol. Centilbl., XI, p. 513, 1891. 



(15) Rydek, J. A., and Pennincton, Mary E. Anat. Anz., IX, No. 



24-25, p. 759. 



(16) Leydig, Fr. Arch. f. Auat., Pliysiol., Jahrg. 1855, p. 376. 



(17) Leydig, Fr. Zeitscbr. f. wiss. Zool., XXX, Siippl., 1878, p. 225. 



(18) Hardy, W. B. .lourn. Pbvsiol., XXIV, 1899, ji. 158. 



(19) Foote and Strobei.l. Journ. :M<)ri)b., 1!)00, XVI, p. 517. 



(20) ScHiMKEWiT.scn. Biol. Centrlbl., XVI, 1896, p. 177. 



(21) Kohschelt, E. Sitzungsbr. Ges. Nat. Fr., Berlin, 1887, No. 7. 



(22) Braun, il. Arbeit aus Zool -Zoot. Inst, "Wiirzburg, 11, 1875. 



(23) Mathews, A. E. Journ. ol'Moipb., XV. Supiil., p. 172. 



(24) Pi.ATEAf, F. Mem. de TAcademie rovale de Belgique, 42, 1878. 



(25) IIoi-i-e-Seyi.er. Pfliiger's -Vrchiv., XIV, 1877, p. 395. 



(26; KuiKENiirKo. Uuters. aus dem phj's. Instilut, Heidelberg, II, 

 I If. 3, p. 201. 



(27) Nel'.meister. Lehrbucb der pbvsiologiscben Chemie, 1893, p. 200 



(28) Brand und Hatzehuro. Jledieiniscbc Zoolo^ie, II, 1833. 



(29) Heidenhain, J. Arch. f. ges. Phvs., XLIII, Suppl. 



(30) Ai.tmann, K. Arch. f. Anat. u. Physiol., Anat. Ablh., 1889, Suppl. 



(31) PKLt'oER. Arch. f. ges. Pbvs., L.X'XXII. 1900, ].. 303. 



(32) Ft;NKE. Zeitsciir. f. wi.-is. Zo.il., VII, 18.")5, p. 315. 



(33) Will. Arch. f. ges. Phys., XX, 1879, p. 255. 



(34) KoLLiKER. Haudbuch tier Gewebelehre, 1863, p. 447. 



(35) Krehl. Archiv. f. Anat. u. Phys., Anat. Abth , Suppl., 1890, 



p. 97. 



(36) Kastle and Loevenhart. Amer. Cliein. Journ., Dec, 1900. 



(37) Levin. Archiv. f. ges. Phys.. LXIII, p 171. 



(38) ScHAKEU, E. A. Internal". Jlonatschr. f. Anal. u. Hist., Leipzig, 



II. 1885, p. 6. 



(39) Biit'CKE. Dinkschrit'ten d. Acad. d. wiss. "Wien, VI, 1854, p. 99. 



(40) LoEVENiiART, A. S. AuuT. Journ. of Plivsiol., VI, 1902. p. 331. 



(41) Weheu, Max. • Arch. f. mikr. Anat., XVII, !>. 385. 



(42) Prknant, A. Coinptes Hendus, IV, ]>. 147.- 



(43) KoR.scin:i,T. E. Arcli. f. mikr. Anat., XLVII, Ilf. 3, 1896. 



(44) UosE.VsTADT. Biol. Centrlbl., VIII, 1888, p. 452. 



(45; GiAiiD el Bonnier. Contributions a I'elude des bopyriens, 



Traveaux de I'inst. zool. de Lille, 1887. 

 (46) Frenzel, JiiH. Mitth. au.s der Zool. Sla. Neap , V, 1884, p. 50. 



" Only works actually consulted are mentioned. 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 359 



EXPLANATION OF PLATE XVI. 



Ali figures drawn by the aid of the camera lucida X 600. 



Fig. 1. — Median cell from intestine of Poreellio scaber, fed with raw 

 beef; intestine fixed after 24 hrs. in Hermann's fluid (24 lirs.) and 

 ■washed in water for 24 hrs. Sections stained in 15 per cent, acid- 

 fuchsine in aniline water. Alb. Or., albumose grannies. 



Fig. 2. — Median cell from intestine of Poreellio scaber, fed with raw 

 beef; intestine fixed after 24 hrs. in 95 per cent, alcohol (24 hrs.), 

 washed in lower grades and finally in water 15 hrs. Sections stained in 

 15 per cent, acid-fuchsine in aniline water. Albumose granules washed 

 out. Nucleus shows effects of unilateral penetration of the fixing fluid. 



Fig. 3. — Median cell from iutestine of Poreellio scaber, fed with raw 

 beef; intestine fixed after 50 hrs. in Hermann's fluid (24 hrs.), and 

 washed in water 24 hrs. Alb. Gr., albumose granules. 



Fig. 4. — Median cell from intestine of Poreellio scaber, fed with raw 

 beef; intestine fixed after 50 hrs. in 95 per cent, alcohol (24 hrs.), and 

 washed in water 15 hrs. Albumose granules washed out. The nucleus 

 is distorted by the fixation. The mass which occupied the concavity of 

 the nucleus previous to washing may have contained albumose. Com- 

 pare fig. 3. 



Fig. 5. — Two per cent, peptone (depur. sice, aus Fibrine, Griibler) 

 precipitated on cover-glass with Flemming's strong fluid. Washed in 

 running water 6 hrs. Stained in 7 per cent, acid-fuchsine. 



Fig. 6. — Two per cent, serumalbumen and 2 per cent, deuteroalbumose 

 (Griibler) (equal parts) precipitated on cover-glass by Hermann's fluid, 

 washed in running water (i hrs., and stained in 7 per cent, acid-fuchsine 

 in aniline water. Cg., coagulum of albumen ; Alb. Or., albumose gran- 

 ules. 



Fig. 7. — Two per cent, serumalbumen precipitated by 1 per cent. HgClj 

 and washed in running water 6 hrs.; then impregnated with 1 per cent. 

 Deuteroalbumose 2 hrs. and again precipitated by Flemming's fluid (24 

 hrs.), and stained in 7 per cent, acid-fuchsine in aniline water. Cg., 

 coagulum of albumen ; Alb. Or., albumose granules. 



Fig. 8. — Median cell from "mid-gut " of Oniscus asellus, fed with raw 

 beef; intestine fixed after 20 hrs. in sublimate-acetic. Sections stained 

 in Biondi-Hiedenhain. Art., artifact caused bj- unilateral penetration of 

 the fixing fluid (see p. 305); Alb. Gr., albumose granules. 



Fig. 9. — Median portion of the typhlosole from intestine of Poreellio 

 spinicornis, fed with raw beef; intestine fixed after 24 hrs. in sublimate- 

 acetic. Alb. Or., albumose granules. 



Fig. 10. — Two anterior cells from intestine of PorccKto scaber, fed with 

 olive oil and fixed after 24 hrs. in 1 per cent, platinic chloride 15 pts., 1 

 per cent, osmic acid 4 pts. Sections stained in 10 per cent, acid-fuchsine. 

 All black granules are fat. 




360 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEIIY OF fMay, 



ADDITIONS TO THE JAPANESE LAND SNAIL FAUNA.-VI. 

 BY HEXRY A. PILSBRT. 



The present communication consists chiefly of detailed descrip- 

 tions of species brietly defined in footnotes to my Catalorjue of the 

 Clausiliidie of the Japanese Empire,^ although a number of new 

 species, not enumerated therein, are now defined. The discovery 

 of all of those forms we owe to the continued exertions of Mr. Y. 

 Hirase, of Kyoto, Japan. 



Section MEGALOPH J.DUSA Boeltger. 



Claasilia mitsakarii Pilsbry. 



Pilsbry, these Proceedings for 1901, p. 648, footnote No. 2 (March 

 1, 1902). 



Shell rimate, fusiform, short and obtuse at the ends, somewhat 

 Bulimimus-shaped ; purplish-brown under a thin cuticle, which lias 

 been almost entirely lost in tlie type sj>ecimeus. Surface dull, 

 finely striate, everywliere extensively eroded by the joint action of 

 free carbonic acid and mechanical wear. Spire tapering to the 

 very obtuse apex. Whorls 8^ to 8f , slightly convex, the latter half 

 of the last whorl conipressed, tapering. Aperture but slightly 

 oblique, fleshy-brown within, oval or ovate. Peristome reflexed, 

 flesh-colored, the upper margin adnatc for a short distance. Supe- 

 rior lamella oblique, not reaching the margin, continuous within 

 with the spiral lamella, which extends to a latero-venlral posi- 

 tion. Inferior lamella retreating, dbtinctly truncate at its base, 

 giving off a branch toward the superior lamella, strong, but 

 slightly curved and obliquely ascending within, penetrating deeper 

 than the superior lamella, to the ventral side. Subcolumellar 

 lamella barely emerging. Principal plica short, • latero-dorsal. 



' In all cases the descriptions have been drawn from the original 

 specimens defined in ihe footnotes of lliat catalogue, though in some 

 cases additional material has also been studied in connection with the 

 types. 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 361 



About 8 short, almost tiiberculiform palatal plicse stand in a lateral 

 position, the upper and lower ones being a little larger. 



Length 28i, diam. 8^, length of aperture 9 mm. 



Length 28f , diam. 7J, length of aperture 8J mm. 



Length 29, diam. 8, length of apertui-e 8J mm. 



C'lausilium long and narrow, parallel-sided, tapering and thin at 

 the distal end, moderately excised on the columellar side of the 

 filament. 



Tomisato, Kii. Types No. 82,468, A. N. S. P., from No. 762 

 of Mr. Hirase's collection. 



In this species the spire is shorter, thicker and more obtuse than 

 in any form of C. martensi which has come under my observation. 

 It is also smaller, with fewer whorls. 



In the type specimens there remains very little cuticle, and what 

 there is is extensively, minutely pitted and of a yellow or golden 

 color around the pits. 



Named in honor of the well-known Japanese zoologist. It will 

 be figured in connection with a review of the section Megalo- 

 phcBchisa. 



Clausilia duoalis var. decapitata n. v. 



Much smaller than the typical ducalis or var. dorcas, base more 

 tapering. Early whorls lost in the adult stage, onlj' 7 to 7^ remain- 

 ing, the simimit being thus very blunt. The surface is dull, finely 

 and weakly striate, more deeply so on the base. Palatal plicte 4, 

 the upper long ; no lower palatal plica. 



Length 25, diam. 6 mm. 



Length 22-|, diam. 6J mm. 



Kashima, Harima. Types No. 83,239, A. N. S. P., from No. 

 913a of Mr. Hirase's collection. 



Section HEMIPH^DUSA Boettger. 



Group of C. sublunellata. 



^Ollendorff, Journ. Asiatic See. of Bengal, LIV, pt. 3, p. 63 (1885). 

 Pilsbry, these Proceedings for 1901, pp. 477, 649. 



This group was origmally defined from species collected in the 

 region of Nikko and Lake Chusenji, in Province Shimotsuke. 

 Mr. Hirase's researches have now brought to light species far to the 

 southward, in Kii Province, and extending its range northward to 




362 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF Plav, 



the southern part of Yesso. So far as present information goes, no 

 species of the group occui's in Shikoku, southweslem Nippon or 

 Kyushu. It seems to be a group of middle and northern Nippon. 

 The most important structural peculiarities of the group are the ab- 

 sence of any pronounced emargination or excision of the clausiliimi 

 on the columellar side of the filament, and the lack of a lower pala- 

 tal plica. All the species are pale-colored. 



Most of the species defined by von Mollendorff have not been 

 figured, and were apparently described from very few specimens. 

 In studying them I have found the table opposite, compiled from 

 the original diagnoses, a useful aid ;'-' ami its publication may assist 

 others. 

 Clausilia heteroptyx n sp. ri. XVIII, figs. 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22. 



Shell rimate, stoutlv fusiform, solid, light yellow, ihe cuticle 

 partly worn off, somewhat glossy, lightly striate, a little more 

 strongly so just behind the lip. Spire rather thick, regularly taper- 

 ing, not attenuated, the apex obtuse. Whorls 9, but slightly con- 

 vex, the last flattened, rounded beneath. Aperture but slightly 

 oblique, ovate, the jieristome continuous, appressed to the preceding 

 whorl above, expanded and reflexed. Superior lamella oblique, 

 rather high, continuous with the spiral lamella, which penetrates 

 to about the middle of the ventral side. Inferior lamella forming 

 a distinct though obtuse fold on the columella, somewhat thickened 

 and bifurcate within, rather straightly ascending and thickened 

 within tlie dorsal side, penetrating further than the spiral lamella. 

 Subcoluniellar lamella slightly immersed, the end visible in a front 

 or oblique view, but not extending upon the lip. Principal plica 

 not quite a half whorl long, the lower end visible deep in the throat, 

 extending inward past a lateral j^sition. Lunella straight and 

 narrow, one or two short, oblirpic palatal plicre above it. 



Length 26.5, diam. 6.6, length of ajwrture 7.8 mm. 



Length 25.2, diam. 6.5, length of aperture 7.2 nun. 



Length 24, diam. 6.5, length of ajjcrture 7 mm. 



Clausilium not much curved, long, narrow and parallel-sideil, the 

 palatal side somewhat thickened, apex ratlier "ncununate; there i.< 

 no noticeable excision or etuargiuation near the filament ( PI. 

 XVIII, figs. 21, 22). 



' The model is that of Prof, von Martens, used very successfully by 

 bim iu the land moUusks of the Biologia Centrali Americana. 




1902.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



363 



si 



P 



[a I' 

 or? Q 



S5- 



2 o 



£65- 





■ p 



■■.z I 





*? ^ ft> ft 

 " □•■ So 

 M o ^ 2. c 



P 2 ^^ ^ — ^ 



(R m c o z: j-i 



j3 rtt t 



Ol >— ^ c- W) Q,^ 



(B O fD JO ■" — 



* - '"' Port) 



- tr — «. P o 



o P p rijr c 



i-< "< T_ ^^ 



»-:K-a? 



rt <^ t» 2 ?^ 



CD H> *-> •^■ 





OS 1-* 1—-^ 11 ts 





Sit. X .-.■ 



So^- 





•-t <:> a a ^; 



CO p — ." ~-( 



o 5 05 • o 



?3 



lo ^-- & 





?5?r' 



« 5 o c 





S.5* 



P^.O o' 



■ •-" z: ^ o 



p r p c 



(6 » o o p :::;« 



C3. C O H -3 ' 



o o 



2.2 

 » o 



B 



sS ° s 



<S.Spmcr-§^ 



CO ^■<t"3 o 



■ mil? 



gSB' 



3 *" i ° rs 



iZ oi 



(C S Q A 



it 





B 



z'.o 



m 





Ld-b 



">2 



5'"- 



B t> ? 





P 00 tJ* 



.15 •< 





•g.5- 



o2. 



O QjO Z.--. B 

 S "B £ X ^ w 



■a == S-p o 

 SB B c -^ 



o o (t '"B " 

 P«»B'gg 



'I re 1 ° "^ 



•gn'O-B 



£.0 —1-3 



o -- o 

 ( 'CR P 



" 2 B^ 



• Bag 



•a'S 



^-.^ 2 

 o » 2 



Bt — O o CO c » 



t-l 



s 



^ 



;k 





is: 



g 



B 



*^^ 





X 





;^ 



^ 



CO tjfi 



Bai" 

 BSo 




364 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



Tomisalo, Kii. Types No. 82,485, A. N. S. P., from No. 764a 

 of Mr. Hirase's collection. It occurs also at Nachi, Kii. 



This species is related to C. sublunellata and C. opeas, both 

 desci'ibed by Dr. yon ilollcndorff from the mountains around 

 Nikko, Prey. Shimotsuke. Compared with the description of C. 

 suhlunell'da, the present species is less slender, with fewer whorls 

 and a larger aperture. C. opeas is a smaller and much more 

 slender species, with much smaller aperture. 



A remarkable variation occurs in one of the specimens of the 

 type lot opened, which has two short palatal folds aboye, not con- 

 nected with the lunella (fig. 19). 



In a specimen from Naclii opened, the single upper palatal fold 

 is connected with the lunella (fig. 18). This specimen meiusures, 

 length 27, diam. 6.8 nun., and has nearly 10 whorls. 



Clausilia subulina var. leucopeas nov. I'l. XVIII, figs. 28, 29, 30, 'i\, 32. 



iShcll rimate, fusiform or somewliat cylLndric, whitish-corueous or 

 greenish -corneous, densely and finely but sharply strkite, glossy. 

 Spire tapering and attenuated aboye, though rather large at the 

 summit. Apex obtuse. Whorls 10, convex, the last somewhat 

 flattened, not more coarsely striate. Aperture somewhat obli(iuc, 

 piriform, the peristome continuous, very shortly free above, a little 

 notched at the position of the superior lamella; white, reflexed and 

 a little thickened within. Superior lamella rather strong, obli»]ue, 

 continuous with the spiral lamella, which extends inward to the 

 middle of the ventral side. Inferior lamella receding, inconspicuous 

 in a front view or forming a .slight colunicllar folil ; thickened and 

 rather straightly ascending within, penetrating as far as or a little 

 further than the spiral lamella. Subcolumellar lamella usually 

 emerging to the lip-edge (fig. 30), but sometimes inuuersed (fig. 

 29). Principal plica strong, visible deep in the throat, extending 

 to a latero-ventral position. Below it there is a short, obiicjuc upper 

 jialatal plica, weakly connected with, or almost sejmrated from, the 

 rather narrow lunella, which is stronger below than above (and 

 sometimes reduced or almost wliolly wanting). ' 



Ijength 15.7, diam. 3.8, length of aperture 3.5 mm. 



Length 16, diam. 3.2, length of aperture 3.5 nmi. 



Length 14, diam. 3.3, length of aperture 3.3 nun. 



Clausilium (PI. XVIII, figs. 31, 32) long and parallel-sided, 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 365 



tapering-rounded and thin at the apex, hardly excised on tlie colu- 

 mellar side of the filament. 



Ikoma, Kii. Types No. 82,484, A. N. S. P., from Xo. 7666 

 of Mr. Hirase's collection. iVIso Tomisato, Kii, No. 766a, and 

 Samotonaka-mura, Kii, No. 766e (Mr. Hirase). 



This form seems to be related to C. suhulina Mlldff. , an im- 

 figured species described from Lake Chusenji in Shimotsuke Prov- 

 ince, west of beautiful Nikko. It is apparently somewhat less 

 slender than that, not especially rugose striate on the last whorl, 

 with a better developed lunella. I have not seen C. suhulina. 



Old specimens become dull and opaque, and lose much of the 

 fine striatiou by wear. Some of the shells from Tomisato are of 

 a light brown tint, others being whitish -corneous like the types. In 

 two specimens opened from Ikoma (No. 769) the luuella is so 

 weak as to be hardly perceptible. The indistinct vestige would not 

 be noticed in these shells were it not better developed in others of 

 the species. It is apparently au abundant shell in the Province Kii. 



Clausilia sericina var. rhopalia Pilsbry. PI. XVIII, figs. 23, 24, 25, 26, 27. 

 Pilsbiy, these Proceedings for 1901, p. 624 (February 6, 1902). 



Figures are here given of the types of this subspecies, not 

 hitherto figured. It is a larger and stouter shell than C. mhulina 

 var. leucopeas, and the inferior lamella forms a more or less prom- 

 inent columellar fold. It is from ]\Iikuriya, Suruga. 



Compared with the description of C. sericina Mlldff. , from Lake 

 Chusenji, these specimens differ in the emerging inferior lamella 

 and the palatal armature, which, if von ]M Ollendorff's description 

 is correct, must be quite different, as he states, after mentioning the 

 deeply placed principal plica, that it has two palatal plicte, the 

 upper short, second punctiform or obsolete, the lower and the luuella 

 wanting. In rhopalia there is a single short upper palatal plica 

 and a long, narrow hmella. In external contour the two forms 

 agree. 



The type of C. sericina was iu the Hungerford collection, aud its 

 present location is unknown to me. 



Group of C. validiuscula. 

 Clausilia oarystoma Mlldff. PI XVII, figs. 1, 2. 



MoUendortr. .Jouru. Asiat. Soc. Bengal, LI, pt. 2, p. 6, PI. 1, flo-. 5 

 (1882); LIV, pt. 2, p. 05 (1885). 



Specimens before me from Kobe, Setsu, the type locality, agree 




366 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



well with ilolleudorff' s description and figure, except in having 10 

 whorls instead of 9, and in being a trifle larger. The very short 

 luuella is connected with the lower palatal plica in the specimen 

 figured (figs. 1, 2), but in another it is a short fold exactly as 

 figured for var. jayi (PI. XYII, fig. 3). The figured shell meas- 

 ures length 15, diam. 3.7 mm. The spiral and inferior lamellse 

 are of equal length, reaching past the ventral side to a lateral posi- 

 tion on the left side. 



The species is somewhat remarkable for the nearly ventral posi- 

 tion of the palatal plicre, a point which von MoUendorff ha.s empha- 

 sized. They are placed quite as in TyrannopJuedusa, while in 

 HeniipluEdusa these plicte are generally lateral or latero-doi"sal. 

 The long spiral lamella is also a Tyranuoi)hsedu.-iau character. 



The clausilium is narrow, parallel-sided, rather straight, notice- 

 ablv oblic|ue at the distal end (but not thickened there as it is in 

 Tiininnoph(cdusa), and excised on the coluniollar side near the 

 filaraout. It is like that of var. jayi. 



C. canjodoma is known only from Kobe, Setsu. The specimen 

 figured was sent by the late Mr. B. Schmacker (No. ()0,378, 

 A. N. S. P. ). 



Gtausilia caryostoma var. jayi nov. PI. XVII, figs. 3, 4, 5, 6. 



Shell rimate, fusiform, moderately attenuated above, glossy, 

 brown, distinctly and finely striate, a little more coareely so on the 

 latter part of the last whorl. Whorls 10, moderately convex, the 

 last flattened and tapering. Aperture ovate-trapezoidal, the brown- 

 tinted peristome continuoas, reflexed and thickened, shortly free 

 and not emargiuate above. Superior lamella ratlier small, oblique, 

 slender, marginal, continuous with the spiral lamella, which pene- 

 trates 'in\\ar<\ past the ventral side. Inferior lamella receding, in- 

 conspicuous in a front view, rather low and obliquely siscending 

 within, as long as the spiral lamella. Subcolumellar lamella vary- 

 ing from immereed to weakly emerging. Principal plica very long, 

 extending from a. ventral jwsition above the siuulus nearly to the 

 lip. Palatal plica; three, nearly ventral, the upper and lower long, 

 the intermediate one short and small. 



Length 13, diam. 2.9, length of aperture 3 mm. 



Length 12, diam. 2.8, length of ajjcrture 2.8 mm. 



Clausilium (PI. XVII, figs. 4, o) narrow, a little obliquely 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 367 



tapering at the apex, deeply excised ou the cohimellar side of the 

 filament. 



Jo, Kii. TriDes No. 82,476, A. N. S. P., from No. 770c of 

 Mr. Hirase's collection. Also Yamaguchi, Tajiraa. 



This form differs from C. caryostoma chiefly in being smaller, less 

 coarsely striate and more slender, with a larger aperture. Named 

 for Dr. John C. Jay, author of one of the earliest papers on 

 Japanese shells. 



Clausilia gracise Pilsbry. PI. XVII, figs. 7, 8, 9, 10, 11. 



Shell very small, slenderly fusiform, pale brown, finely striate, a 

 little more coarsely so on the back of the last whorl. Upper half 

 strongly attenuated, penultimate whorl somewhat swollen, latter 

 half of the last whorl compressed and tapering, the position of the 

 principal plica marked by a shallow but distinct sulcus. Whorls 9, 

 the first rather globose, the rest moderately convex. Aperture 

 slightly oblique, ovate-piriform, tlie peristome continuous, shortly 

 free above, reflexed, and strongly thickened within. Superior 

 lamella small and vertical, continuous with the spiral lamella, which 

 ascends past the middle of the ventral margin. Inferior lamella 

 receding, inconspicuoas in a frimt view, but seen to form a distinct 

 fold when \'iewed obliquely in the aperture; straightly and 

 obliquely ascending within, penetrating as far as the spiral lamella. 

 Subcolumellar lamella deeply immersed. Principal plica long and 

 strong, extending from a latero- ventral position nearly to the lip. 

 There are ttvo long, strong and oblique lateral palatal plicce, with a 

 strong, short lunella between them, not connected with eitlier. 



Length 9.3, diam. 2.2 mm. 



Length 7.7, diam. 2 mm. 



The clausilium is narrow and pai'allel-sided, tapering at the 

 distal end, and abruptly, deeply excised on the columellar side of 

 the filament (figs. 7, 8). 



Nachi, Kii. Types No. 82,458, A. N. S. P., from No. 794 of 

 Mr. Hirase's collection. 



This species shares with C. hirasei and C. euholostoma the dis- 

 tinction of being one of the smallest known from Japan. It is not 

 closely related to any of the described forms, standing nearer C. 

 aulacophora, C. pigra and C. tosana than to other species now 

 known. It is much smaller than C. caryostoma or the yarieij jayi. 




368 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Maj, 



Tlie dimiuulive stature together with the several characters itali- 

 cized above readily distinguish the species. Some specimeus taper 

 more slowly aud regularly thau others, as Ihe figures show. 



Group of C. aulacophora. 



This group passes into the group of C. validiuscula by such an 

 easy transition that it is ratlier difficult to draw a line between 

 them, although ty|5ical forms are so different. lu the latter group 

 there are several palatal plicae standing between the upper and lower 

 ones, while in the former these plicte are united, and thereby trans- 

 formed into a lunella. 



Clausilia pigra n- sp. PI. XXI, figs. 73, 74. 



SheU rimate, rather slenderly fusiform, strongly attenuated above, 

 light reddish-brown, finely striate (or smooth by wearing or erosion 

 of the surface in some specimens). Spire very slemlcr above, the 

 first whorl rather globose, several whorls following not increasing in 

 diameter (but in eroded individuals it is acute aud tapering). 

 Whorls 10 to 10^, convex, Ihe last compres.sed laterally, tapering; 

 becominc/ free for a short distance in front, and grooved above the 

 position of the superior lamella. Aperture piriform, subvertical, 

 the distinct sinulus retracted. Peristome continuous, white, 

 reflexed and thickened, sinuous above. Superior lamella marginal, 

 rather i<mall, sul)verticii], continuous with the spiral lamella, wliich 

 penetrates past the ventral side. Inferior lamella inuner.sed, deeply 

 receding, tliick, straightened, branching and obliquely ascending 

 within, penetrating as far as or less deeply than the spiral lamella. 

 Subcohuiiellar lamella deeply immersed. Principal plica long, 

 extending from the ventral side nearly to the aperture. Upper and 

 lower palatal plica^ are connected by a straight lunella, forming a 

 barrier shaped like the letter I, and exactly lateral in position. 



Length 15.5, diain. 3.3, length of aperture 3.4 mm. 



Tjcngth 14, diam. 8.3, length of aperture 3 mm. 



Length 15, diam. 3, length of aperture 3 mm. 



Clausilium narrow and parallel-sided, abruptly aud deeply excised 

 on the columcllar side (jf the filament. 



Kashima, Ilarima. Types No. 82,455, A. N. S. P., from No. 

 C06c of Mr. Hirase's collection. 



By the shape of the ajierture and the forwardly built, shortly 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 369 



free last whorl, this species is related to C. tosana PUs. ; but it 

 differs from tosana in the more deeply penetrating lamellae and 

 principal plica, the distinct lunella connecting the two palatal plicje 

 I-like, and the larger size of the less slender shell. ^loreover, the 

 clausUium is deeply excised on the columellar side near the filament, 

 as in C harimensU, while in tosana it merely tapers there. 



C. pigra is probably not closely related to C. aulacophora, 

 although by parallel evolution it has attained the same type of 

 palatal armature. 



xVt Nametoko, lyo, on Shikoku Island, a form of C. tosana occui"s 

 in which there is an imperfect lunella in place of the intermediate 

 palatal plicK, at least in some specimens (No. 82,288, A. N. S. P., 

 from Mr. Hirase's No. 5506). 



Group of C. awajiensis. 



Two remarkable additions are made to this group in C. agna and 

 C. caloptyx, the first very glossy and smooth, the second beautifully 

 sculptured with strong riblets. 



Clausilia subignobilis Pilsbry. PI. XIX, figs. 33, 34, 33,36. 



Thfse Frocicdinijs for 1901, LIII, p. 655, footnote Xo. 9 (March 1, 

 1902). 



Shell fusiform, attenuated above, very pale reddish-brown or 

 gray-brown, somewhat glossy, finely striate, on the last half of the 

 last whorl more coareely so. Aperture trapezoidal-ovate, slightly 

 oblique. Peristome well expanded, continuous, shortly free and 

 concave or notched above. Superior lamella small, marginal, dis- 

 connected from or barely connected with the spiral lamella, which 

 penetrates barely to the ventral side. Inferior lamella deeply 

 receding, slender and vertically ascending within, about as long as 

 the spiral lamella. Subcoluraellar lamella emerging to the lip-edge, 

 and boimded by grooves. Pruicipal plica short, latei'al, the hmella 

 bow-shaped, its upper and lower ends bending strongly inward. 



Length 15.2, diam. 3.5 mm. 



Length 13, diam. 3.1 mm. 



ClausUium narrow, parallel-sided, rounded at the apex, .some- 

 what excised on the columellar side of the filament. 



Hirado, Hizen, in western Kyushu. Types No. 82,954, A. N. 

 S. P., from No. 733 of Mr. Hirase's collection. 



Close to C. shikokuensis, in which, however, the spiral and infe- 

 24 




370 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF ["May, 



rior lainellfe are longer, the priucipal plica longer and stronger, the 

 siibcolumellar lamella is immersed, and the limella is strictly lateral. 

 In C suhignohilis the subcolumeUar lamella emerges strongly, and 

 the lunella is somewhat dorso-lateral. Mr. E. R. Sykes, who kindly 

 compared it with the type of his C. ignohilis, now in the British 

 Museum, writes that ignobllu is "a yellower shell with more 

 cylindrical and larger earlier whorls, more like C. ischna and C. 

 iotaptyx." Moreover, if the fieure of G. ignobilis Ls correct, the 

 lunella is lateral, not dorso-lateral, as it is in suhignohilis. 



The three species, C. ignohilis, C. shikokuensis and C. sith- 

 ignobilis, agree in the shape of the luuella, and are evidently 

 closely related. 



Clausilia tantilla PUsbry. PI. XIX, figs. 43, 44. 



These Proceedings for 1901, LIII, p. 655, footnote No. 10 (March 1, 



1902). 



Shell very small, fusiform, attenuated above, tlie last three whorls 

 rather large; dull reddish-brown or gray, without cuticle in adult 

 shells; striate, but worn smoothish, the last whorl more coai"sely 

 striate behind. Whorls 8^, the first rather large, last compressed. 

 Aperture slightly oblique, trapezoidal-ovate. Peristome reflexed 

 a)nd thickened, continuous, very shortly free above. Superior 

 lamella small, abruptly lower where it joins the low spiral lamella. 

 Infeiior lamella receding, vertically ascending within. Sub- 

 columeUar lamella usually wholly immersed (but in one specimen of 

 five emerging weakly to the liji-edgc). Principal plica dorsal 

 and lateral. Ujiper palatal plica short, a straight oblique, lateral 

 lunella joining it in the middle. No lower palatal plica. 



Length 9.5, diam. 2.5 mm. 



Length 8.3, diam. 2.2 mm. 



Goto, Hizen. Types No. 83,023, A. N. S. P., from No. 813 

 of Mr. Hirase's collection. The locality was erroneously given 

 " Goto, Uzen," in a former communication. 



A very small form, differing from other known species of tlic 

 group of C. awajiensis in the straight lunella, which does not 

 curve inward below, and in the diminutive size of the shell. 



Clausilia bigeneris Pllsbry. PI. XIX, figs. 37, 38. 



These Proceedings for 1901, LIII, p. 656, footnote No. 12 (March 1, 

 1902). 



Shell fusiform, moderately solid, pale reddi.sh-brown, apparently 




1902.] STATURAL SCIEXCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 371 



deprived of cuticle; surface lustreless, weakly striate: acutely 

 tapering above to a small aud rather acute a-pex. '\^^lorls 10, 

 moderately convex, the last compressed. Aperture shortly ovate, 

 but slightly oblique. Peristome continuous, shortly free above, 

 moderately thick and broadly flaring, reflexed, excavated at the 

 sinulus. Superior lamella marginal, subvertical, continuous with 

 the spiral lamella, which penetrates to the middle of the ventral 

 side. Inferior lamella deeply receding, subvertical within the last 

 whorl, a little thickened below, not extending inward as far as the 

 superior lamella. Subcolmuellar lamella deeply immersed. Prin- 

 cipal plica strong, approaching the lip, extending slightly past the 

 middle of the lateral position. Upper palatal plica short, oblique, 

 slightly disconnected from (he lunella. Luuella doi-so-lateral, 

 straight above, curving far inward below. 

 Length 14.3, diam. 3.5 mm. 

 Clausilium narrow, rounded at the apex. 



Goto, Hizen. TjT)es No. 82,956, A. N. S. P., from No. 818 

 of ]\Ir. Hirase's collection. The locality was incorrectly given as 

 Goto, Uzen, in my preliminary description. 



This species recalls C. suhauraniiaca somewhat. The lip is 

 unusually developed. The slight notch between the limella and 

 the short upper palatal plica is luilike the allied species, and re- 

 minded me at tirst of some species of the group of C. stiblunellata, 

 but the strong inward bend of the lower end of the limella shows 

 clearly that it belongs to the group of C. mvajiensis. 

 Clausilia agna n. sp. PI. XIX, figs. 39, 40, 41, 42. 



Shell fusiform, moderately solid, the penultimate whorl widest, 

 preceding aud last whorls a little narrower, those above tapering to 

 a somewhat obtuse apex. Brownish-yellow, somewhat transparent. 

 Surface brilliantly glossy, as though varnished, showing some faint 

 growth wrinkles under a lens. Whorls 7-8, moderately convex, 

 the suture often appearing mai^ined by transparence. Last whorl 

 not differently scidptured. Aperture subvertical, squarish-ovate. 

 Peristome expanded and narrowly reflexed, hardly thickened, the 

 ujiper margin adnate or barely free from the {)receding whorl. 

 Superior lamella compressed, marginal, continuous with the spiral 

 lamella, which does not reach quite to the middle of the ventral 

 side. Inferior lamella deeply receding, a little thickened near its 

 lower end, straightly ascending, not penetrating as deeply as the 




372 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF PlaV, 



spiral lamella. Subcolumellar lamella weakly emerging. Principal 

 plica short, visible within the mouth, extending inward past the 

 lunella. Upper palatal plica very short, connected with a rather 

 low, nearly .straight, slightly dorso-latei'al lunella, the lower end of 

 which curves abruptly inward. 



Length 10.2, diam. 2.5 mm.; whorls 7f. 



Length 8.(i, diam. 2.3 mm. ; whorls 6J. 



Clausilium (PI. XIX, figs. 39, 40) parallel-sided, nearly straight, 

 rounded apicaUy, deeply excised on the columellar side of the 

 filament. 



Yakushima, Osumi. Types No. 82,959, A. X. S. P., from Xo. 

 fi68c of Mr. Hirase's collection. 



This sjjecies resembles Zaptyx in texture and general structiu'e, as 

 well as in the form of the clausilium, but it differs in wanting the 

 sutural plicje and the accessory lameUte of that group. It is 

 remarkable for the varnish-like gloss of the sui-face. 



Clausilia caloptyx n. sp. IM. XIX, figs. 4o, 46, 47, 48. 



Very small, fusiform, pale corneous-brown, solid and strong, 

 rather rapidly tapering above to a rather obtuse apex. Surface 

 regularli/ sculptured rcith strong, straight ribs, very coarse for so 

 small a shell. A\'horls 7^,'convex, the last somewhat compressed, 

 with the ribs a little more separated. Aperture squarish-ovate. 

 Peristome white, continuous, reflexed, thickened within, very 

 shortly free above, notched at the position of the sujxirior lamella. 

 Superior lamella marginal, compressed, subvertical, continuous with 

 the spiral himella, which penetrates scarcely to the ventral side. 

 Inferior lamella receding, invisible in a front view, but appearing 

 as a strong, deeply jilaced fold in an oblique view in the aperture ; 

 straightlv a.scending within, not i>enctratiug quite .so deeply as the 

 spiral lamella. Subcolumellar lamella emerging. Principal plica 

 short, extending from near the lip to a lateral [wsitiou. Upjwr 

 palatal plica very short, connected with the ratlier weak luuelln, 

 which curves inward at its lower end, and is dorso-lateral in jwsi- 

 tion. Length G.8, diam. L9 mm. ; whorls 7^". 



Length 7, diam. 2 mm. ; whorls 7^. 



Length X, diam. 2.4 mm.; whorls 8 (larger form; sec below). 



Clausilium (PI. XIX, figs. 45, 40) parallel-sided, the distal 

 third straightened, the rest strongly curved ; distal end slightly 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPniA. 37? 



oblique and a little thickened ; columellar side excised near the 

 filament. 



Yaku-shima, Osumi. Types No. 82,958, A. N. S. P., from No. 

 894 of Mr. Hirase's collection. 



Very distinct from any known Japanese or Riukiuan species. 

 The strength and coarseness of the sculpture is remarkable in so 

 small a shell. The lamellae and plica3 penetrate less deeply than 

 usual. 



One specimen (PI. XIX, fig. 49) is larger and more obese than 

 the others of the type lot, but it agrees in other characters. 



The ribs are shown a little too much spaced on the last whorl of 

 fig. 48. 



Group of C. aulacopoma. 



Shell similar to that of the group of C. atvajiensis, except that a 

 nodule-like lower palatal plica is developed inward from the termi- 

 nation of the lunella. Clausilium strongly curved, channeled on 

 the outside at the apex. 



The single species at present composing this group is strongly 

 individualized by the peculiar modification of the clausilium. 



Clausilia aulacopoma Pilsbry. Pl. XVII, figs. 12, 13, U, 15, 16. 



These Proceedings for 1901, LIII, p. 656, footnote Ko. 11 (March 1, 

 1902). 



Shell fusiform, strongly attenuated above, brown, the surface 



lustreless, finely and weakly striate, more strongly so on (he back 



of the last whorl. Whorls about 9^, convex, the apex small. 



Aperture trapezoidal-ovate, a little oblique. Peristome reflexed 



and thickened. Sinulus distinct and slightly retracted. Superior 



lamella marginal, small and low, continuous with the spiral lamella, 



which j)enetrates to the middle of the ventral side. Inferior 



lamella deeply receding, straightly ascending within the last whorl, 



distinctly thickened and a little sinuous near its lower end, a little 



shorter within than the spiral lamella. Subcolumellar lamella 



emerging to the lip-edge, though sometimes but weakly, and 



bounded by grooves. Principal plica extending from the dorsal 



nearly to the ventral side. Upper palatal plica short, united in the 



middle to the strong oblique, latere -dorsal lunella, which is straight 



above and curves inward below, its inner end being contiguous to 



a strong short, nodide-like lower fialatal plica. 




374 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



Length 13.5, diam. 3 mm. 



Length 12.5, diam. 2.7 mm. 



Length 12, diam. 3 mm. 



Claasilium (PI. XVII, figs. 13, 14) rather narrow and parallel- 

 sided, very strongly curved, pinched into a channel or spout at the 

 apex, aliruptly and deeply emarglnate on the columellar side of the 

 filament. 



Hirado, Hizen, in western Kyushu. Types No. 82,980, A. N. 

 S. P., from No. 733& of Mr. Hira.«e's collection. 



There is some variation in the degree of apical attenuation and 

 in the emphasis of the subcolumellar lamella. Fig. 16 represents 

 the type. Some specimens, as that drawn in fig. 12, are more 

 swollen. The shell resembles sf)ecies of the group of C. awajieiisis 

 in most of its characters, except for the nodule-like lower palatal 

 plica, but it is very distinct in the specialization of the clausUium, 

 which is channeled apically, much as in C crenilabium, the channel 

 apparently fitting over the lower palatal plica. 



Section TYRANNOPH^DUSA Pilsbry. 

 Group of C. mikado. 



The forms described and illustrated below complete the illustra- 

 tion and description of the species and varieties now known of this 

 section. 

 Clansilia aorantiaca Boettger. PI. XX, figs. 50, 51, 52, 53, 54. 



Bocttger, Clausilienstudieu, p. 08 (1877); Syst. Verz., p. 57 (1878); 



Jahrb. d. D. Malak. Ges., V, p. 101, PI. 4, 'fig. 5. 

 Kobelt, Fauna Moll. Extramar. Jap., p. 95, PI. 9, fig. 11 (1879). 



This species was described from the " interior of Nippon " from 

 specimens collected by Rein. Probably the types came from some 

 province near the eastern end of the Inland Sea. 



The shell is very solid for its size, fu.siform, moderately attenu- 

 ated above, the early whorls (juite small. The subventral lunella is 

 straight, connecting the two palatal plica; like the letter I, but it is 

 usually i)laced obliquely, crossing ihe line of the external strife. 

 The superior lamella is continuous with the spiral lamella, wliich 

 penetrates inward across the ventral side to a point further inward 

 than above the siuulus. The inferior lamella is e(iually long. The 

 subcolumellar lamella typically emerges to the lip-edge. The shell 

 usually is more or less orange-tinted brownish in color. 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 375 



Specimens from Kobe, Setsu (B. Schmacker), are gray -brown 

 or reddish -brown, worn, with 8^10 whorls, and are about 13 mm. 

 long. The subcoliuiiellar lamella emerges. 



Nohaia, Yamato. Specimens measure from 12.3 s 3.3 imii. with 

 9 J whorls, to 14 X 3 mm. with 10 whorls. The subcolumellar 

 lamella emerges. 



Aiga, Kii. Glossy, orange-brown, transparent enough to show 

 the lunella and plicse through; whorls 9^10J; length Hi— 

 13^ mm. Subcolumellar lamella emerging. 



Nachi, Kii (fig. 51). Brownish dark-red, opaque. Whorls 10 

 to 11; length 12J to 14 mm. The subcolumellar lamella emerges 

 weakly or is immersed. 



Kurozu, Kii. Whorls 10, length 12^13 mm. The subcolumel- 

 lar lamella emerges slightly or is immersed. 



Ikari, Awaji (fig. 50). Color and texture as in last. Whorls 

 10; length 13-14 mm. The subcolumellar lamella emerges. 



Suimura, Awa, Shikoku (figs. 52, 53). Rather light chestnut- 

 brown, some specimens showing the lunella and plicte through. 

 Length 12-15 mm. The subcolumellar lamella emerges. 



Obi, Huga. The shells are gray-brown or reddish-brown, and 

 measure 13 mm. long, 3 wide, with 10 whorls. The connection 

 between the superior and spiral lamellae is very low, almost inter- 

 rupted, and the lunella is somewhat arcuate. The subcolumellar 

 lamella emerges weakly. The clausilium of a specimen from this 

 locality is figured (fig. 54). 



Clausilia aurantiaoa var. erberi Bttg. PI. XX, figs. 55, 56, 57, 58, 59, GO. 



Boettger, Syst. Verz., p 57. 



Moellendoiff, J. A. S. B., LIV, pt. 3, No. 1, p. 65. 

 C. a. minor Mlklflf., Jouru. Asiatic See. Bengal, LI, pt. 2, No. 1, p. 

 9 (July, 1882); types from Nara, Yamato. 



Smaller and somewhat more slender than C. aurantiaca, the sub- 

 columellar lamella immersed ; lip narrower ; lunella not quite reach- 

 ing the upper palatal plica. 



This small form is usually fairly distinguishable from the tj'pical 

 aurantiaca. It extends from Harima to Yamato or Kii, specimens 

 being before me from the following localities : 



Tomisato, Kii. Whorls 8-9; length 10-lU mm. The sub- 

 columellar lamella barely emerges. It is not typical erberi. Per- 

 haps referable rather to aurantiaca proper. 




376 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



Gojo, Yamato. Length 10 J, diam. 2 mm. ; wliorls 9^. Sub- 

 columellar lamella immersed. 



Nara, Yamato. Length 9^, diam. 2 mm. ; whorls 9. Sub- 

 columeUar lamella immersed (PL XX, fig. 55, the palatal arma- 

 ture represented as though showing through, but the shell is 

 opaque). This and the preceding are typical erberi. 



Chikubu-shima, an Lslaud in Lake Biwa, Omi (fig. 56). 

 Length varying from 10 to 12| mm. ; whorls 9-10. The sub- 

 col umellar lamella is immei'sed. Though some specimens are ralher 

 large, their characters are otherwise as in the smaller ones with 

 them. The shell figured in outline Ls 10.3 mm. long. 



Kashima, Harima (PL XX, figs. 57-60). Glossy, hand.«onie 

 specimens, lOi to Hi mm. long, with 10 to lOt whorls. The 

 subcolumellar lamella is immersed; the palatal plicoe are long, but 

 the luueUa is veiy short in some examples (fig. 59), while in others 

 it is as long as in shells from Yamato. 



Clausilia aurantiaoa var. plicilabris (A. Adams). PI. XX, figs. 61, 62, 63. 



C. plicilabris A. Ad., Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist. (4 ser.), I, 1868, p. 

 469. Pfr., Monogr., VIII, p. 476. Kobelt, Fauna MoU. Extra- 

 mar. Jap., p. 98. 



C. aurnntiaca var. hypoptycliia Pilsbry, these Proceedings for 1901, 

 p. 052, footnote No. 7. 



Shell fusiform, m(xlerately swollen, distinctly attenuated above, 

 slender near the ajx'x; whitish under a pale-brown cuticle, all of 

 the specimens seen being more or less eroded on the surface. 

 Gosely striate. Whorls about 10 J, the last one tapering. Aper- 

 ture jiiriforin. Peristome pale brown or dirty white, thick and 

 somewhat broadly reflexed, crossed by several unequal folds in the 

 mbcolumellar region. Superior lamella rather strong, becoming low 

 within, barely continuous with or disconnected from the spiral 

 lamella, which peneti-ates just past the ventral side. Inferior 

 lamella very deeply receding, nearly as long within as the spiral 

 lamella. Subcolumellar lamella emerging to the lip-edge, accom- 

 panied by one or several accessory folds. Luueilu joining the 

 lower palatal fold near its inner end, scarcely connected with the 

 upj)er palatal fold. 



Length 15, diam. 3.4 mm. 



Length 13.7, diam. 3.3 mm. 



Length 16, diam. 3.3 mm. 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 377 



Kashima, an island near Tanabe, Kii. No. 82,459, A. N. S. 

 P., from ISTo. 782 of Mr. Hirase's collection. 



As in other Tyrannophcedusce of the tj-pical group, there is a slight 

 depression behind the outer and basal lips. It is more slender 

 above and more swollen below than C. orthairada Pils. 



Further study of Adams' description convinces me that the form 

 I named C. aurantlaca var. hypopfychia can be nothing else than 

 C. pllcilahris A. Ad., described from Tanabe, Kii, the descrip- 

 tion of which, so far as it goes, agrees exactly with the shells sent 

 by Mr. Hirase. By " lunella inconspicua " Adams merely meant 

 that it was not visible through the shell. 



The degree of plication of the subcolumellar region varies within 

 wide limits, as I have shown to be the case in several other species 

 of Tyrannophcedusa. 



I do not give the name pllcilahris precedence over aurantiaca, 

 because the description published by Adams was not sufficient for 

 the recognition of the species until specimens from the type locality 

 came to hand. 



One specimen which was sent with v. j)licilabris (PI. XX, figs. 

 64, 65) is much larger than the others, measuring, length 19, 

 diam. 3.8 mm. It is densely and sharply striate, and has 13 

 whorls. This may perhaps prove, when more material is received, 

 to be a distinct species. It is No. 83,134, A. N. S. P. 



Ghroup of C. bilabraia. 



Clansilia dalli Pilsbry. PI. XXI, figs. 75, 76, 77. 



Tnese Proceedings for 1901, LIU. p. 656, footnote No. 13 (March 1, 

 1903). 



Shell many whorled, awl-shaped, the upper half much attenuated, 



Imver half obese, pale brown, rather thin, scarcely glossy, all the 



specimens having the cuticle slightly worn below, wanting above; 



finely striate, more coarsely so on the back of the last whorl. 



Whorls 14^ to 15J, moderately convex, the first whorl rather 



globose, next 5 or 6 whorLs scarcely increasing in diameter, those 



following enlarging slowl)^, Ihe last three whorls forming about 



half the length of the shell, the penultimate whorl widest, last 



whorl narrower, compressed. Aperture trapezoidal -ovate, slightly 



oblique. Peristome continuous, thickened and reflexed, white, the 



right margin crossed by a single fold (the subcolumellar, fig. 76) 




378 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



or having a group of folds in Ihat region (fig. 77). Superior 

 lamella oblique, attaining the margin, rather widely separated from 

 the spiral lamella. Spii'al lamella contiaued inward to a poiut 

 above the sinulus. Inferior lamella deeply receding, though often 

 continued to the lip-edge, obliquely and straightly ascending within, 

 and continued inward a little beyond the termination of the spiral 

 lamella. Subcolumellar lamella emerging to the lip-edge, and 

 usually bounded by grooves. The principal plica is about a half- 

 whorl long, extending from a doreal to a ventral position. The 

 luuella is strong, latere- ventral, its upper end curving inward, lower 

 end united to the lower palatal plica at or near its inner end. 



Length 19, diam. 4.1, diam. of second whorl 1 mm. 



Length 17, diam. 3.8, diam. of second whorl .8 mm. 



Clausilium narrow, oblique at the distal end, thickened along 

 the columellar margin and distally, as usual in Tyrannophcediisa. 



Tairiuji, Awa, Shikoku Island. Types No. 82,9-57, A. X. S. P., 

 fi-om No. 819 of Mr. Hirase's collection. 



This peculiar species resembles C. mikado Pils. in its much 

 attenuated, concave-sided spire, which is more slender than that of 

 C. iotaptyx Pils. It stands between iotapttjx and mikado in the 

 number of whorls. The aperture is formed about as in C. iotaptyx, 

 not being built forward as in C. mikado. From both of the 

 species named it differs in palatal armature, the lunella being like 

 that of C. bllabrata Smith. The spire is api)arently not subject to 

 self-amputation, the apex being entire in the six specimens before 

 me. The claasilium is of the shape usual in Tyrannophwdusa. 



C. dalli is named for the Honorary Curator of the Department 

 of Mollusks of the U. S. National ]\Iuseum. 



Section EUPIIiEDUSA Boettger. 

 Clausula holotrema Pilsbry. PI. XXI, fig. 72. 



PUsbrv, these Proceedings for 1901, p. 654, footnote No. 8 (March 

 1, 1902). 



Shell rimate, fasiform, the upper third rapidly tapering to a 

 minute apex ; vinoits brown, with a wide corneous zone below the su- 

 urea, which is largely covered with whitish papery cuticle (like that 

 of Helicostyla) ; some interrupted spiral lines of the same apj)ear- 

 ing upon the dark color, and oblique streaks on some earlier whorls. 

 The base of the last whorl is pale-corneous. Surface somewhat 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 379 



glossy, evenly thread-striate obliquely. \\"liorls a trifle over 8, 

 convex, the last well rounded beneath. Aperture inde, oval, 

 vertical, the peristome expanded, subreflexed, somewhat thickened 

 within, continuous, in contact wilh the preceding whorl above. 

 Superior lamella luholly ivanting, the spiral lamella arising far 

 within. Inferior lamella forming a small and deeply-placed but 

 prominent subhorizontal fold. Subcolumellar lamella deeply 

 immersed. Principal plica short, dorso-lateral. Moderately long 

 upper and lower palatal plicae are develo{>ed (but apparently no 

 luuella). 



Length 12, diam. 3.1, length of aperture 3.2 mm. 



K^achi, Kii. Tyivi No. 82,454, A. N. S. P., from No. 789 of 

 Mr. Hirase's collection. 



A single specimen of this remarkable Enph(edu.sa was sent by 

 Mr. Hirase, wilh the remark that it seemed different from any other 

 species. It stands in the middle between the " group of C. hun- 

 gerfordiana" and that of C. euholostoma, as defined in my last 

 paper upon this topic. Both of these groups have the superior 

 lamella absent or vestigial, represented by a slight thickening of 

 the peristome, and there is more or less whitish, papery cuticle, in 

 streaks and spiral lines. C. holotrema resembles C. hungerfordiana 

 in the palatal armature, but is more like euholostoma in the 

 squarLsh-oval, not in the least piriform shape of the aperture. 

 The dark, wide, wine-brown belt, contrasting with the corneous, 

 white-variegated band above, makes it a conspicuous species. This 

 belt terminates short of the outer lip, as shown by transparence in 

 the figure. The single specimen received has not been opened, but 

 this is the less essential because the palatal folds show through the 

 thin shell. 



Section STEREOPH^DUSA Boettger. 

 Group of C. una. 



Similar in general characters to the group of C. japonica, but 

 with the right margin of the lip plicate, and ha\'ing a short hmella 

 developed in couuectiou with the lower palatal plica ; no interme- 

 diate palatal plicoe. 




380 PE0CEEDING8 OF THE ACADEMY OF [M'lV, 



Clansilia una Pilsbry. PI. XXI, figs. 66, 67, 68, 69. 



These Proceedings for 1901, LIII, p. 656, footnote No. 14 (Slarch 1, 

 1903). 



Shell regular!}' tapering above, attenuated near the apex, very 

 solid and strong, pale yellowish, slightly glossy, regularly, closely 

 striate, the striation becoming much coarser on the back of the 

 last whorl. "Whorls 11^ to 12, moderately convex, the penulti- 

 mate widest. Apical whorl globose, the next 2 or 3 whorls hardly 

 increasing in diameter, last whorl a little compressed. Aperture 

 ovate, hardly oblique. Peristome thickened and reflexed, continu- 

 ous, shortly free above, a little notched or emarginate at the position 

 of the superior lamella, the entire upper ajid right margins closely 

 and deeply plicate. Superior lamella slender, .subvertical, mar- 

 ginal, continuous within with the spiral lamella, which is high 

 laterally, and continues inward to a point above the sinulus. In- 

 ferior lamella bifid, appearing as a double fold below, ascending in 

 a wide spiral, and continued inward as far as the spiral lamella. 

 Subcolumellar lamella emerging to the lip-edge. Principal plica 

 over a half-whorl long, visible deep in the throat and extending 

 inward to the ventral side. There is a small upper palatal jilica, 

 lateral in position and converging inward toward the principal 

 plica, and a imich longer, arcuate, lower palatal plica, from the 

 middle of which a very short, rudimentary lunella arises. 



Length 23, diam. 5.3 mm. 



Length 21.5, diam. 5.2 mm. 

 Clausilium (PI. XXI, figs. 6S, 69) broad distally, irregvdarly 

 rouniled and strongly thickened at the apex, somewhat emarginate 

 on the columellar side of the filament. 



Goto, Hizen. Types No. 82,i)55, A. N. S. P., from Xo. 816 

 of Mr. Hii-ase's collection. The habitat " Goto, Uzen," given iu 

 my preliminary note, was erroneous. 



Clearly a Slereophmdma by its clausilium, strongly spiral inferior 

 lamella and palatal armature, yet unitjue in that section by the 

 beautiful plication of the right margin of the peristome. No other 

 species from Japan proper has such sculpture, a few forms of 

 TyrannopJuvdusa alone having it much less developed and confined 

 to the subcolumellar region ; but in the section Ltichuphwdusa of 

 the Riukiu Islands similar interlainollar plication exists. The 

 double fold of the inferior lamella is also a rare structure, but it 

 occurs in CI. excellens Fir., also a Riukiuan species. 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 381 



Group of C. entosjnra. 

 Clansilia daemonorum n. sp. PI. XXI, figs. 70, 71. 



Shell small, fusiform, ratlier thin, finely substriate, the latter part 

 of the last whorl more coarsel_y so ; glossy. Early whorls lost in 

 the specimens described; the last whorl is laterally compressed, 

 flattened, the base convex, full and somewhat sack-like. Aperture 

 oblique, irregularly ovate, the peristome continuous, very shortly 

 free above. Superior lamella small, marginal, short, not continuous 

 with the spiral lamella. Inferior lamella receding, becoming very 

 high and approaching the superior lamella in the throat ; and 

 within the last whorl it ascends in a broad spiral curve. Subcolu- 

 mellar lamella emerging to the lip-edge. Principal plica rather 

 short. Limella rather short and arcuate. Clausilium unknown. 



Length of specimen with 4|- whorls remaining, 8.2, diam. 2 mm. 



Length of specimen with 4^ whorLs remaining, 7.8, diam. 

 2.2 mm. 



Kikaiga-shima, Osliima group. Types No. 82,981, A. N. S. P., 

 from No. 874 of Mr. Hirase's collection. 



A fossil of the land-shell bed. It has the form, size and surface 

 of a Zaptt/.r, but is milike that group in the widely spiral ascent of 

 the inferior lamella within. Whether the species is allied to C. en- 

 tosjnra, which I have placed in Stereophoedusa, or Ls an Euphredusa 

 I am not prepared to say in the absence of the clausilium ; for it 

 has something in common with both groups — the spiral inferior 

 lamella approaching the superior in the throat, the superior 

 lamella not connected with the spiral, etc. ; but provisionally, and 

 merely to put it somewhere, I refer the species to the group of 

 C. entospira. 



EXPLANATION OF PLATES XVII— XXI. 



Plate XVII, Figs. 1, 3. — Glamilia caryostoma MlIdfF. Kobe, Setsu. 



Figs. 3, 4, 5, C. — C caryostoma Ya.v. jayiViXs. Jo, Kii. 



Figs. 7, 8, 9, 10, 11.— C. yraciai Pils. Nachi, Kii. 



Figs. 13, 13, 14, 15, 16. — C. aulacopoma Pils. Hirado, Hizen. 



Plate XVIII, Figs. 17, 20, 21, 22.— C. hcteropiyx Pils. Type. 

 Tomisalo, Kii. 



Fig. 18. — C. hetevoptyx Pils. Nachi, Kii. 



Fig. 19. — C hcteropiyx Pils. Tomisato, Kii. 



Pigs. 33, 34, 25, 26, 37. — C. sericina var. rhopaUa Pils. Mikuriya, 

 Suruga. 



Figs. 38, 29, 30. — C. siibulina var. leucopcas Pils. Ikoma, Kii. 



Figs. 31, 33. — C. subulina var. leucopeas Pils. Samotonaka-mura, Kii. 




382 TKOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



Plate XIX, Pigs. 33, 34, 35, 36.— C. suhiynoUUs Pils. Hirado, Hizen. 



Figs. 37, 38. — G. bUjeneris Pils. Goto, Hizen. 



Figs. 39, 40, 41, 42. — C. agna Pils. Yaku-shima, Osumi. 



Figs. 43, 44.— C. tantilla Pils. Goto, Hizen. 



Figs. 4.5, 46, 47, 48. — O. caloptyx Pils. Yaku-sbima, Osumi. 



Fig. 49. — C. caloptyx Pils., an obese form from the same locality. 



Plate XX, Fig. 50. — C uurantiaca Bttg. Ikari, Awaji. 



Fig. 51. — G. aurantiaca Bttg. Nachi, Kii. 



Figs. 53, 53. — G. aurantiaca Bttg. Suimura, Awa (Shikoku). 



Fig. 54. — C. aurantiaca Bttg. Clausilium of a specimen from Obi, 

 Huga. 



Fig. 55. — G. aurantiaca var. crheri Bttg. Nara, Yamato. The shell 

 is opaque, the palatal armature being represented diagrammatically in 

 this figure. 



Fig. 56. — G. aurantiaca vox. erberi Bttg. Chikubu-shima, Omi. 



Figs. 57, 58, 59, 60. — G. aurantiaca var. erberi Bttg. Kashima, Harima. 



Figs. 61, 62, 63. — G. aurantiaca var. plicilabris A. Ad. Kashima, 

 nearTanabe. Kii. 



Pigs. 64, 65. — C aurantiaca var. plicilabris A. Ad. Large form from 

 the same locality. 



Plate XXI, Figs. 66, 67, 68, 69.— C. una Pils. Goto, Ilizcn. 



Figs. 70, 71. — G. damonoj-u7n PWs. Kikaiga-shima, Oshima group. 



Fig. 72.-0'. holotrema Pils. Nachi, Kii. 



Figs. 73, 74.— C. pigra Pils. Kasliiina, Harima. 



Figs. 75, 76, 77.— C. dalli PjIs. Tairiuji, Awa (Shikoku). 




1902.] KAITJEAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 383 



DESCEIPTIONS OF TWO SPECIES OF EXTIKCT TORTOISES, ONE NEW. 



BY O. P. HAY. 



Testudo atasoossB sp. uov. 



.■^ In the coUectiou of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Phila- 

 delphia the writer has found certain bones which belong apparently 

 to an undescribed species of the genus Testudo. These bones are 

 accompanied by a label to this effect: " Miocene, E. W. IMamock, 

 Atascosa county, Texas. ' ' How this material came to the Acad- 

 emy there is no record. Mr. Witmer Stone has suggested that it 

 may have been derived from Dr. Leidy's collection ; we know 

 also that Mr. Mamock collected in Texas for Prof. Cope, but 

 beyond this there is no indication that these bones were ever in the 

 hands of either Prof. Cope or Dr. Leidy. 



These remains consist of the left half of the anterior lobe of the 

 plastron and Ihe greater portion of the left side of the hinder lobe. 

 Figures of these parts are here presented. 



Fiff. 2. 



Fig. 1. 



The species has been one of considerable size. The xiphiplas- 

 tron has had a length of about 110 mm. ; the whole posterior lobe 

 a length approximately of 120 mm. The anterior lobe has had 

 about the same length. We may perhaps safely estimate 200 mm. 




384 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[^lay, 



for the length of the bridge, thus making the plastrou 440 mm. 

 long. 



The anterior lobe (fig. 1) has been close to 200 mm. in width. 

 The interclavicle, or entoplastron, has had a width of 100 mm. ; its 

 length has probably been about 80 mm., Ijut its hinder border is 

 missing. The gular scutes encroach on its anterior border. A 

 broad rounded lip has projected beyond the gulo-humeral sulci' 

 about 28 mm. It has had a width of 80 ram., and Ls not notched in 

 front. The whole border of the anterior lobe is acute, througli the 

 beveling off of the ujipcr .side. Fig. 2 is a section through the lip 



l 



Fia;. 4. 



Fi<'. 5. 



iMg. J. 



at the midline, and shows this beveling. The greate.st thickness at 

 the lip is 2;^ mm. ; at a point halfway to the axillary notch this 

 thickness has been reduced only to 21 mm.; near the notch it is 

 about 10 mm. Superiorly the lip extends back about oO mm. 

 From the .summit of the li|) two ridges, with a shallow valley 

 between them, run toward the axillary notch, diverging gently. 

 There has evidently been no tiioracic excavation beneath the lip 

 behind. Such an excavation is found in T. htticuudaia, T. hexa,- 

 gonata and in (he living 2'. polyphemus. 



The posterior lobe Tfig. 3) has been broadly notched behind, the 

 notch having a width of about 90 mm. and a depth of .').■) mm. 

 The terminal lobules are directed outward and upward, somewhat 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 385 



earlike, somewhat as lliey are iu T. poli/phemug, but not so narrow 

 as they are in the latter. From the midline behind, the border is 

 acute around the lobides and as far forward as about 35 mm. be- 

 hind the hypo-xiphiplastral suture. Here it rather suddenly be- 

 comes broadly rounded, as shown by the ci'oss-section (fig. 4). At 

 the sutui'e mentioned the thickness of the bone is 30 mm. The 

 wall thus formed continues backward, descending somewhat, and 

 meets the midline 15 mm. or more in front of the bottom of the 

 notch. Fig. 5 represents a section through one of tlie lobules in a 

 direction from its tip toward the centre of the hinder lobe. The 

 greatest thickness is 22 mm. 



The femoro-anal sulcus runs from the midline outward, so as to 

 make the outer end of the anal scute somewhat wider than the 

 mesial end. Anlero-posteriorly, at the middle of its width, the 

 scute is 40 mm. long. 



It is probable that the deposits in which this tortoise was found 

 belong to the Pliocene. 

 Terrapene eurypygia (Cope). 



This species was described by Prof. Cope in 18fi9 (Trans. Amer. 

 Philos. Soc, XIV, new serie-9, p. 124), the type specimen being a 

 small portion of the rear of the carapace. It was regarded as distinct 

 from the common Terrapene of the region on account of the appar- 

 ently greater width of the vertebral scutes. This seemed to be 

 indicated by the contact of the last vertebral with the ninth mar- 

 ginal scute. Xo figure was made of the specimen, and nothing 

 in addition was afterward published. The type has been examined 

 by the writer. 



In 1899 {Jour. Pliila. Acad., XI, pp. 193-207) Prof. Cope 

 described various remains of the vertebrates which had been col- 

 lected by IMessi-s. Dixon and ]Mercer iu the Port Kennedy cave. 

 Among other things there were three tortoises found, viz., Cleinmys 

 inaculpta, C. percrassa and To.va»2}is (Terrapene) anf/uillidata. 

 There belonged to the collection, however, another box-torloise 

 which was not mentioned by Cope, and was perhaps not seen by 

 him. Through the kindness of the management of the Academy 

 this has been put in my hands for examination. These remains 

 consist of almost the whole of the plastron and of various frag- 

 ments of the carapace and the right humerus. 



An examination of these bones showed that they belonged either 

 25 




386 PKOCEEDINGB OK THK ACADEMY OF [^^7'^ 



to Terrapene Carolina or to a ^^'^^^f^^jf^,^,! J^ 

 soon observed that the ninth -^^^^^ Cope's CiMudo 

 last vertebral (fig. 6), a ---!^^'^ ^^'C ^.Luci, one 



of the portions of the Poit Kenne j P ^^^ ^.^^.^^ ^^ 



tbe right margm of the -^ ^V e .^^e "helher or not the new 

 the hinge. The question ^^^^^, ^ the species. 

 Hiaterial confirms Cope's v.e. of ^'^^^^'^^ ^.^,^,,,„.,, ,eutes is 

 The unusual width of tlie 'T^^^^y^,, Kennedy speci- 

 proved by Cope's type ^^ ^^^^^ ,, the carapace pre- 

 nien. Belonging to the latter i. a tiagme 



Fitr. I". 



first vertebral does not u^uaii) oui- ,.,,.( „Kvi1 reaches over 



42 mm. w.ite. p,„, Kcmo.ly ,|«i...on 



A ooiii|«t»» "f llH^ l.la." ' ,i„, a,.41 ivas aim™! "O.-y. 



m»te i( cvi*«l that U.» I-"""' '' "" ■ ' ''' „ „,i„, „«te. 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 387 



tiou of liypoplast and xiphiplast, is in T. Carolina 5 mm. thick; in 

 T. eurypyfjia, 7 mm. thick. This border is also wider in the latter 

 species than in any specimens of the living species at hand. 



No doubt all or nearly all the characters appealed to for the 

 separation of Cope's species are more or less variable, but it appears 

 unlikely that there should be so many deviations from the normal 

 in one or two specimens. An examination of eighteen siJecimeus 

 of T. Carolina revealed the fact that in one the fifth vertebral was 

 in contact with the ninth marginal oa both sides, while in another 

 specimen these scutes were in contact on one side. In both cases. 



Fis. 7. 



however, some of the scutes in the region were somewhat abnormal 

 in their development. Leaving this out of view, we have the con- 

 tact in about eight and one-third per cent, of cases. It appears 

 unlikely that the only two specimens that we have of the fossil 

 species would belong among this small minority. 



In the Port Kennedy specimen the anterior lobe is 51 mm. long, 

 :aud 68 mm. wide at the hinge. In front of the hiuge the width 

 increases to 72 mm. The posterior lobe has had a length of at 

 least 80 mm. 



Fig. 6 presents a view of the fragment of the rear of the plas- 

 tron of the Port Kennedy specimen, the interrujited lines having 

 been added in order to show the j)osition of the fragment. The 




388 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [^laV, 



crossing of the sulci on the upper portiou of the drawiug iudiaites 

 the presence of a small scute cut off from the fifth vertebral a 

 slight abnormality. In fig. 6 the peripherals are numbered, but 

 not the marginal scutes. The uinth scute is the one lymg pia-tly 

 on the ninth peripheral and partly on the tenth. In both figures 

 the bony sutures are represented by zigzag lines, «lule the sulci 

 between the scutes are shown Ijy dotted lines. 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENX'ES OF PHILADELPHIA. 389 



TWENTY NEW AMERICAN BATS. 

 BY GEERIT S. JULLER, JR. 



This paper, published here by permission of the Secretary of the 

 Smithsonian Institution, contains descriptions of twenty new 

 American bats, the ty|5es of nineteen of which are in the United 

 States National Museum. Six of these belong to the series of 

 IMexican bats in the Biological Suryey collection, Idndly placed at 

 my disposal, together with those in his private collection, by Dr. C. 

 Hart Merriam. 



Antrozous minor sp. nov. 



Type.— Ad\\]i (skin and skull), Xo. 79,096, United States 

 National Museum (Biological Suryey collection). Collected at 

 Comoudu, Lower California, ilexico, September 20, 1895, by J. 

 E. McLellan. 



Characters. — Color as in the large Antrozous paeifimts or slightly 

 darker ; size rather less than that of the small A. pallidus. 



Color. — Dorsal surface buff, eyerywhere washed with wood- 

 brown, but particularly on region behind shoulders. Tender parts 

 clear buff, paler than that of back and fading to cream-buff on 

 middle of belly. Ears and membranes dark brown. 



Skull and Teeth. — Skull narrower than that of the other species, 

 the difference particularly noticeable in the posterior region of the 

 braincase. Crown of upper premolar and of first and second upper 

 molars much shorter in proportion to their width than in A. palli- 

 dum and A. piacificus. The lower molars are uniformly smaller than 

 those of A. pallidus, but not different in form. 



Measurements. — External measurements of type: Total length, 

 93; tail, 35; tibia, 20; foot, 10 (9); forearm, 48; thumb, 9.6; 

 second digit, 40; third digit, 80; fourth digit, 68; fifth digit, 63; 

 ear from meatus, 23; ear from crown, 19; width of ear, 16; 

 tragus, 11.4. 



Cranial measurements of an adidt male from the tj-pe locality 




o90 PROCEEDIXGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [^Tay, 



(No. 96,491): Greatest length, 19 (21);' basal length, 17.6 

 (19); basilar length, 14 (15.4); interorbital constriction, 4 (4.6); 

 zygomatic breadth, 11 (12.8); mastoid breadth, 9 (10); breadth 

 of brain case above roots of zygomata, 8.6 (9); mandible, 13 

 (14.8); maxillary toothrow (exclusive of incisors), 6.8 (8); man- 

 dibular toothrow (exclusive of incisors), 7.6 (8). 



Specimens Examined. — Five (four skins), all from the type 

 locality. 



Remarh. — Antrozous minor is a well-marked local species, com- 

 binmg the dark color of A. paeijicus and the small size of A. 

 pallidm with a peculiar form of the molar teeth. 

 Pipistrellus oinnamomeus sp. nov. 



Type.— Adult female (skin and skull). No. 100,231, Uuifed 

 States National Museum (Biological Survey collection). Collected 

 at Montechristo, Tabasco, Mexico, May 4, 1900, by E. W. Nel- 

 son and E. A. Goldman. Original number, 14,136. 



Characters. — Largest known American Pipi^trellm ; forearm, 37; 

 greatest length of skull, 15. Ear shorter than that of P. sub- 

 flavHS, but much narrower. Color uuiform cinnamon throughout, 

 the individual hairs of the back with practically no trace of tri- 

 color markings. 



Ears. — The ear resembles that of Pipistrellus subflavus in general 

 form, but it is shorter and very much narrower. Tragus straight, 

 much like that of P. subfiamis, but narrower. 



Fur, Membranes, etc. — The fur Ls shorter and le.ss woolly than 

 that of P. subflavus, and it lacks the abundant sprinkling of long 

 hairs characleristic of the latter. At middle of back the hairs 

 forming the body of the fur are about 5 mm. in length. Inter- 

 spersed with these are othere 1-2 nun. longer, but quite uunotice- 

 able except on close examination. In distribution of fur, as well as 

 in other characters of external form, Pipistrellua cinnamomeua 

 appears to be identical with P. subflnvus. 



Color. — Fur everywhere cinnamon, slightly more yellow than 



that of Ridgway, particularly on the under parts. The individual 



hairs are dark slate color at base, but this does not api>ear at surface 



unless fur is disarranged. In favorable lights the cinnamon of the 



'hail's on the back may be seen to become lighter as it approaches 



^Measurements in parentheses are those of an adult female Antrozous 

 2)allidus from Silver City, New Mexico (No. 00,110). 




1902.] NATUKAL SCIENCES OF nilLADELPHlA. 391 



the dark basal area, thus dislantly suggesting a tricolor pattern. 

 Eai"s and membranes brown, the free edge of the wing apparently 

 lighter, but this is perhaps due to some irregidarily in drying. 



Skull. — The skull is much larger than that of Plpistrellus mb- 

 flavus, in this respect slightly exceeding that of Myotis lucifurju-". 

 In form it is longer ami narrower than in the other American 

 species of Plpistrellus, a difference which is particularly noticeable 

 in the rostrum and palate. Thus, while the length of the bony 

 palate is 1.4 mm. greater than in a fuUy adult P. subjiavm, the 

 width between middle molars is no more and the distance between 

 roots of upper incisors is probably a little less than in the smaller 

 species. Lachrymal foramen large, its centre over posterior root of 

 large premolar ; distance from its lower edge to rim of alveolus less 

 than width of large premolar measured along ciugulum. In 

 P. iubjlavus this distance is distinctly greater than width of tooth. 

 Bony palate more produced behind line of last molar than in the 

 allied species, the median projection large and well developed. 

 Audital bulhc of same relative size as in P. subjiavus. 



Teeth. — Aside from their much greater size, the teeth do not differ 

 uolably from those of Pipktrellus subjJavus. Inner upper incisor 

 distinctly smaller than outer, not approximately equal to it as is 

 the case in P. subfiavus. First upper premolar as large as outer 

 incisor, .slightly internal to toothrow, but plainly visible from outer 

 side. First and second upper molars with a distinctly indicated 

 hypocone, no trace of which is present in P. subjiavm. Lower 

 incisors crowded into a continuous row between the canines, the 

 crown of the outermost subterete. Other mandibular teeth essen- 

 tially as in P. subflavus, except for their greater size. 



3Ieasurements. — External measurements of t}'pe: Total length, 

 09; tail, 44; tibia, 15.4; foot, 9.6 (8); forearm, 37; thumb, 

 6.8; second finger, 35; third fingei", 63; fourth finger, 53; fifth 

 finger, 47; ear from meatus, 11.4; ear from crown, 9; width of 

 ear, 7. 



Cranial measurements of type: Greatest length, 15 (13);" basal 

 length, 14 (12); basilar length, 11.6 (9.8); palatal length 

 (median, but posterior spine not included), 6 (4.8); width of 

 palate between middle molars, 3 (3) ; interorbital constriction, 



^ Measuremeuts in parentheses are those of an adult Pipistrtllus sub- 

 flavus from Raleigh, N. C. (Xo, 36,655). 




392 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [^lav, 



4 '(3. 8); zygomatic breatllh, 9 (8); breadth of braincai^e above 

 roots of zygomata, 7.2 (6.4); mandible, 11.4 (9.8) ; maxillary 

 toothrow (exclusive of incisors), 5.8 (4.6); mandibular toothrow 

 (exclusive of incisors), 6 (4.6). 



Specimens Examined. — One, llie lype. 



Eemarhs. — This bat differs so widely from the other known 

 American species of Pipistrellus as to need no special comparisons. 

 Superficially it has much the appearance of au unusually red 

 Myolis lucifiiffus, and only on examination of the tcelh do the 

 auimal's true rclation.«hips become apparent. 



A few individuals were found in au unoccupied house on the ed ge 

 of the town of IMontcchrislo. Apparently the species was uncom- 

 mon. 

 Dasypterus floridanus sp. nov. 



Tfyjc— Adult female fsldn and skull), Xo. 111,379, United 

 States National jMuseum. Collected at Lake Kissimmee, Fla., 

 March 28, 1901, by Dr. Edgar A. Mearns. Original number, 

 5,18.3. 



Characters. — Color as in the large Dasypterus intermedim (H. 

 Allen) and the small D. xantJwnts (Thomas) ; size intermediate 

 between these extremes. 



Measurements. — External measurements of lype: Total length, 

 129; tail. 52; tibia, 20; foot, 9 (8.4); forearm, 49; thumb, 10; 

 second digit, 61 ; third digit, 98 ; fourth digit, 80 ; fifth digit, 65 ; 

 ear from meatus, 17: ear from crown, 11 ; width of ear, 11. 



Cranial measurements of type: Greatest length, 18 (19.8) ;' basal 

 length, 16.2 (17.6); basilar length, 13.6 (14); median palatal 

 length, 6 (6.4); interorbital constriction, 5 (5); zygomatic 

 breadth, 13 (14); ma.«toid breadth, 10 (11); mandible, 14.8 

 (15); |_maxillary toothrow (exclu.«ive of incisor), 6.8 (7); man- 

 dibular toothrow (exclusive of incisors), 7.8 (8). 



Specimens E.ramined. — Eleven, from the following localities: 

 Florida — Davenport, 1 (skin) ; Kissimmee, 3 (skins) ; IMullct 

 Lake, 1; Old Town, 2 (skius) ; Louisiana — Lafayette, 2; Honma, 

 2 (1 skin). 



Jiemarh. — Dasypterus floridanus differe from D. intermedim in 

 the', same manner as the Lower Californian D. xanthinus 



'Measurements in paTciitlieses are those of an adult topotype of 

 Dasypterus intermedins (Xo. 1,439). 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 393 



(Thomas), but to a mucli less degree. Indeed, it is probable that 

 it iutergrades with the Texan animal. The three specimens col- 

 lected at Kissimmee by Dr. Mearns, taken in conneetiou with those 

 whicli I examined in 1897, show such constant differences from 

 D. iniermedius that it now seems best to recognize the Anstro- 

 riparian race by name. More detailed measurements of the two 

 forms will be found in North American Fauna, Ko. 13, p. 117. 



NYCTINOMOPS geo. nov. {iloloBsidx.) 



Type. —Nydinomus femorosaceiis Merriam. 



Characters. — Externally like Nyctinomus. Skull similar to that 

 of Promops, except that the premaxillaries are separated in front 

 by a very narrow space. Teeth as in Nyctinomus, but upper 

 incisors parallel, the two occasioualh' in contact with each other. 



Remarks. — Although intermediate between Nyctinomus and 

 Promops, the group of species of which N. femorosaccu^ is typical 

 forms a very natural genus. Its members have usually been 

 referred to Nyctinomus, but Dr. J. A. Allen* has recently placed 

 two forms {dej^ressus aud affinis) in Promops. In those thus far 

 known there are only four lowei' incisors. I have examined the 

 following species: Nyctinomops femorosaccus (Jlerriam), N. yuca- 

 tanicus sp. nov., N. aurispinosus (Peale), N. laticaudatns (E. 

 Geoffroy), N. orthotis (H. ^\llen), N. depressus (Ward), N. 

 affinis (J. A. Allen) and N. macrotis (Gray). It is probable that 

 Nyctinomus megalotis Dobson is also a member of this genus. 

 Nyctinomops yucatanicus sp. nov. 



Tjipe.— Adult female (skin and skull), K"o. 108,166, United 

 States National Museum (Biological Survey collection). Collected 

 at Chichen Itza, Yucatan, February 9, 1901, by E. W. Nelson 

 and E. A. Goldman. Original number, 14,521. 



Characters — Size aud general appearance as in N. europs, but ear 

 larger and with better developed keel, nearly as in N. femorosaccus. 

 Skidl slightly larger than that of N. europs, the rostrum longer 

 aud iuterorbital region more nearly cylindrical. Teeth as in 

 N. europs, but larger. 



Ears. — The ear agrees in all details of form with that of Nycti- 

 nomops femorosaccus, due allowance being made for its smaller size. 

 The keel, however, may be a little less developed, though its 



*BuU. Ainer. litis. Kat. Hist., XIII, p. 91, May 13, 1900. 




394 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



appearance may have been sliglnly altered by drying. It is quite 

 different in form from that of X. earops, and not thickened at the 

 edge as in ^Y. laticuudatus. Autitragus large, in form exactly like 

 that of N. femorosacnis, therefore higher in proportion to its width 

 than in iV. latieaudatus and JV. europs. Tragus as in X. J'emoro- 

 saceiis. 



Color. — Dorsal surface uniform vandyke-browu, tlie haii-s whitish 

 at base, but not sharply bicolor. In certain lights the extreme 

 lips of the hairs show a faint wash of wood-brown, and in othei-s 

 there is a strong sheen of bluish ecru-drab. Under parts like 

 back, but strongly tinged with wood-brown. Ears and membranes 

 dark brown. 



Skull. — The skull is intermediate in size between that of Ntjeti- 

 nomops europs and the larger N. latieaudatus and iV. femorosaccm. 

 In form it shares to a certain extent the shortening of the rostrum 

 that characterizes the Brazilian species, but this peculiarity is not 

 carried a,s far, nor is the cylindric contour of the interorbital region 

 noticeably impaired. The orifice of the anterior nares Is more 

 tubular than in N. europs, but less so than in N. Jemorosaccus. 



Teeth. — The teeth agree in all respects with those of Kyctiuomops 

 europs except tiiat the upper incisors are larger and more closely set. 



Mea.mrements. — External measurements of type: Total length, 

 98; tail, 42; tibia, 12.4; foot, 9 (7.8); forearm, 42; thumb, 8; 

 second finger, 40 ; third finger, 81 ; fourth finger, (.iO ; fifth finger, 

 42; ear from meatus, 15; ear from crown, 11.(5; width of car, 

 17; tragus, 1.8. 



Cranial measurements of type: Greatest length, 17.2 (1G.6);' 

 basal length, 15 (14.8); ba.si]ar length (to posterior edge of pala- 

 tal emargination), 13 (12.4); interorbital constrictiou, 3.4 (3.4); 

 zygomatic breadth, 10 (9.4); greatest breadth of braincai^e above 

 roots of zygomata, 8.8 (8); mandible, 12.4 (11.4); maxillary 

 toothrow (exclusive of incisoi-s), 6.4 (6.2); mandibular toothrow 

 (exclusive of inci-sors), 7 (6.8)." 



Specimens E.vamined. — Twelve, all from the type locality. 



'Measurements in parentheses are those of a paratype of Nyctinomopt 

 europx (?, Xo. 101, ."iOS). 



'Some of tlie mciisurements of a skull of Xyctinomops femoroxicfus 

 from Fort I luacluicii, Arizona (No. S(i,o;!8) are: Greatest length, 19; 

 liasal lenglh, 17; zygomatic breadth, 10; maxillary toothrow Cexcliisive 

 of incisors), 7.G. 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 395 



Remarks. — Although Nyctinomops yueatanicus is in mauy respects 

 intermediate between tlie small N. europs and the larger N. lati- 

 caudatm and N. femorosaccus, it is a very distinct species. Its 

 relationships are evidently with the larger forms, though super- 

 ficially it bears a close resemblance to N. euroj^s. 



]Mr. Nelson and ilr. Goldman secured the specimens in crevices 

 of the ruins at Chichen, Itza. A bat which ihey supposed to be 

 the same was sten at Tunkas and Jlerida. 

 Molossus nigricans sp. nov. 



Type.— XiMt male (skin and skull), Xo. 90,941, United States 

 National ^Museum (Biological Survey collection). Collected at 

 Acaponeta, Tepic, ^lexico, August 2, 1897, by E. W. Nelson and 

 E. A. Goldman. Original number, 11,433. 



Characters. — Slightly larger than Molossus rufiis from Paraguay; 

 color blackish-brown, the shoulders frequently though not invari- 

 ably grayish. Red phase uncommon, brighter than I hat of J/. 

 rufus, but apparently less so than in M. pretiosus. 



Color. — Type: Upper parts a uniform very dark seal-brown, 

 interrupted on shouldei-s by a crescentic area of broccoli-brown 

 about 10 mm. in width. This lighter color appeal's again as an 

 ill-defiued wash on head between ears. Under parts like back, 

 but everywhere lightened by a wash of broccoli-brown, this most 

 conspicuous on throat. Ears and membranes an indefinite blackish- 

 brown. Red phase: The few specimens in the red phase have 

 been immersed in alcohol for ten years and are therefore not to be 

 trusted as regards color. They are now a uniform lawny, rather 

 less bright than 3L jiretiosus in the same pelage. 



Variation in color, as shown by the skins in the dark phase, is 

 slight, and such as occui"s is mostly a mere darkening of the general 

 tint and the partial or complete obliteration of the shoulder cres- 

 cent. In the majority of specimens, indeed, this crescent is absent. 



Skull and Teeth. — The skull is about the same size as that of 

 Molossu-i rufus, but the rostrum is hea\-ier and the interpterywoid 

 space and the palate are wider. On the other hand, the sagittal 

 and lambdoid crests appear never to reach the extreme development 

 seen in BIolossus. rufus. 



Teeth as in Molossus rufus, but distinctly heavier throughout. 



Measurements. — External measurements of type: Total length, 

 145; tall, 53; tibia, 18.6; fool, 12 (11); forearm, 52.6; thumb, 




396 PEOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [i^Iav, 



9; second finger, 48; third finger, 100; fourth finger, 80; fifth 

 finger, 51. 



Cranial measui'emenls of type: Greatest length, 23.6 ('23) ;' basal 

 length, 19.8 (20); basilar lenglli, 17.4 (17.4); median palatal 

 length, 7.2 (7.2); interorbital constriction, 4.8 (4.2); zygomatic 

 breadth, 15.2 (14); breadth of braiucase above roots of zygo- 

 mata, 11.4 (11); greatest height of sagittal crest, 2.2 (3); man- 

 dible, 17 (16.6); maxillary toolhrow (exclusive of incisors), 8.8 

 (8); mandibular toothrow (exclusive of incisors), 10 (9). 



Specimens Examined. — -Forty-six, from the following localities in 

 Mexico : Chiapas — Huehuetan, 1, Tonila, 1 ; Colima — City of 

 Colima, 17; Jalisco — Teuchitlan, 1; Oaxaca— Llano Grande, 1, 

 Tehuautepec City, 2(1 skin) ; Tamaulipas — Alta ]Mira, 1 ; Tepic 

 — Acaponeta, 8 (3 skins) ; Tuxtla — San Andres, 1 (skin) ; Yera 

 Cruz — Catemaeo, 7(3 skins) ; Yucatan — Chichen Itza, 7 (skins). 



Remarks. — That this bat is numerous in parts of Mexico is shown 

 by the following extract from the collectors' field notes : ' ' Common 

 about the houses in Acaponeta. Du.nng the day they conceal them- 

 selves under the tiles of roofs. One man told us that he had killed 

 over three hundred of them shortly before our arrival while at 

 work on his roof. ' ' 



Molossus pretiosus sp. nov. 



1901. Molossus rnfas Robinson and Lvou, Proc. U. S. Nat. Miis., 

 XXIV, p. 156, October 3, 1901. 



Type. — Adult male (skin and skull), Xo. 102,761, United 

 States National Museum. Collected at La Guaira, Venezuela, 

 July 13, 1900, In- Wirt Robinson and M. \\ . Lyon, Jr. Original 

 number, 106. 



Characters. — Distinctly smaller than Molossus rufus from Para- 

 guay ; color rich dark reddish-brown, the shouldei-s frequently 

 though not invariably chestnut. Ked phase common, much 

 brighter than in Molossus riifiis. 



Color. — Type: Upper parts seal-brown, .somewhat more tinged 

 with red than that of Ridgway. Shoulders washed with rufous. 

 Under parts like bact, but not as dark, and even more tinged with 

 red. Chest sprinkled with whitish hairs. Ears .and merabraues 

 blackish. 



' Measurements in parentheses are those of an adult male Jlolostus rufui 

 from Sapucay, Paraguay. 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 397 



There is much variatiou iu color, as pointed out by Kobinson 

 and Lyon. The young and a few adults are practically black. In 

 others the rufous is more conspicuous than iu the type, sometimes 

 invading the entire pelage to the exclusion of the dark browu. In 

 the completely red specimens the exact shade varies from burnt 

 umber to a rather dark tawny. 



Skull and Teeth. — The skull and teeth are much smaller than iu 

 true Molossus rufus, but I can detect no tangible difference in form, 

 beyond the rather less development of the sagittal aud lambdoid 

 crests. 



Measurements. — External measui-emeuts of type: Total length, 

 123; tail, 44; tibia, 18; foot, 11.4 (10.8); forearm, 45.4; thumb, 

 8.2; second finger, 42; third finger, 90; fourth finger, 70; fifth 

 finger, 47. 



Cranial measurements of type: Greatest length, 21 (23);*' basal 

 length, 18 (20); basilar length, 16 (17.4); median palatal length, 

 7 (7.2); interorbital constriction, '4 (4.2); zygomatic breadth, 13 

 (14) ; breadth of braincase above roots of zygomata, 10.6 (11.4) ; 

 greatest height of sagittal crest, 1.8 (3) ; mandible, (16.6) ; max- 

 illary toothrow (exclusive of incisors), 8 (8) ; mandibular toothrow 

 (exclusive of incisors), 8.8 (9). 



Speeimens E.vammed. — Seventy-one (44 skins), all from the 

 vicinity of La Guaira. 



Remarks. — Specimens from Sapucay, Paraguay, essentially 

 topotypes of Molossus riifus, which have been received within the 

 past few months, show that the bat from northern South America is 

 an easily recognizable form. The Paraguay skins are all a imi- 

 fonu reddish-brown, very near the raw umber of Kidgway. They 

 are very uniform in color and show no tendency toivard the bright 

 tints of 2I0I0SSUS pretiosus in the corresponding phase. Neither is 

 there any suggestion of a black pha.se. As far as can be deter- 

 mined from tlie material now at hand, we have a large southern 

 form, true Molossus rufus, which apparently lacks the black phase 

 and in which the red phase is very dull ; a large northern form, 

 M. nigricans, iu which the red phase is rare, and a small form, 

 intermediate in range, with both phases of pelage well devel- 

 oped aud characterized by great richness of color. 



'Measurements in parentheses are those of an adult male Molossus 



rufus from Sapucay, Paraguay. 




398 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



Nyotinomus antillularum sp. nor. 



Type. — Adult male (in alcohol), No. 113,188, United States 

 National MiLseum. Collected at Roseau, Dominica, W. I., 

 August 5, 1901, by H. Selwyu Branch. 



Characters. — In general similar to the common Nyeii7io7nus of 

 the Greater Antilles, but size even less, the lengtli of forearm (in 

 sixteen specimens) ranging from 36.5 mm. to 38.5 mm. 



Form, Color, etc. — In color and external form this species shows 

 no peculiarities as compared with the common representative of the 

 Nyctinomus brasiiiensis group, occurring in Cuba, Jamaica and 

 Porto Rico. As in the latter, the ears are relatively smaller than 

 those of the continental members of the genus, extending, when 

 laid forward, just to ucstril instead of distinctly beyond end of 

 muzzle. The usual brown and red color phases are represented, 

 but as all but two of the specimens at hand have been preserved in 

 alcohol no exact comparison can be made. 



Skull and Teeth. — The skuU and teeth do not differ ajiprecialily 

 from those of Cuban specimens of the larger AVest Indian form. 

 The first lower premolar is very minute and without distinct 

 ciugidum. 



Measurements. — External measurements of type: Total length, 

 S3; tail, 30; tibia, 12; foot, 6.0 (6); forearm, 47.4; thumb, 7; 

 second finger, 38 ; third finger, 70 ; fourth finger, 58 ; fifth finger, 

 40; ear from meatus, 15; ear from crown, 11.4; width of ear, 15. 



Cranial measurements of type: Greatest length, 16; basal 

 length, 14.8; basilar length, 12; median palatal length, 6; iuter- 

 (irbital con.strictiou, 3.8; zygomatic breadth, 9; breadth of brain- 

 case above roots of zygomata, 8 ; man(lil)lo, 1 1 ; maxillary toothrow 

 (exclusive of incisors), 5.8; mandibular tootliniw (exclusive of 

 incisors) 6. 



Specimens E.vamined. — Twenty-one, from the following islands: 

 Dominica, 2; Mont.serrat, 1; St. Kitts, 6 (2 skins); St. Lucia, 

 11; Tobago, 1. 

 Natalus major sp. nov. 



Type. — Adult male (in alcohol). No. 101,395, United States 

 National Maseum. Collected near Savaueta, Sau Domingo, W. I., 

 by W. M. Gabb. 



Characters. — Like Xatalus stra7)iineiis, but nmch larger: Fore- 

 arm, 42; longest finger, 80; greatest length of skull, 18. 




ly02.J NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 399 



External i^orm.— Except for its greater size, Natalus major so 

 closely resembles specimens of N. stramineus from Dominica as to 

 require no detailed description. 



Shdl and Teeth. — While the skull resembles that of X. stramin- 

 eus in form it is readily distinguished by its larger size and heavier 

 .structure. The braincase in particular is greatly inflated as com- 

 pared with that of the smaller species. Rostrum with sides nearly 

 parallel. The teeth are similar in form to those of X. stramineus. 



Measurements. — External measurements of the type and of an 

 adult female from the type locality: Total length, c?' HO, 9 116; 

 head and body, d" 49, ? 5-3; tail, J 61, ? 63; tibia, d 22.4, 

 ? 23; foot, d" 9 (7.6), ?9.8 (8); forearm, c? 42, 9 43; thumb, 

 c? 6, 9 6 ; second digit, d 44, ? 43 ; third digit, c? 80, 9 82 ; 

 fourth digit, d' 61, 9 62; fifth digit, d 57, 9 58; ear from 

 meatus, d 15, 9 16.6; ear from crown, d 12, 9 12. 



Cranial measurements of type: Greatest length, 18 (17),' basal 

 length, 16.4 (15.6); basilar length, 14.6.(14); median palatal 

 length, 9.8 (8.8); breadth of rostrum at base of canines, 4.4 

 (3.6); iuterorbilal constriction, 3.6 (3.2); zygomatic breadth, 

 9.6 (9); greatest breadth of braincase, 9 (7.8); inaudible, 14 

 (13); maxillary toothrow (exclusive of incisors), 8 (7.8) ; man- 

 dibular loothrow (exclusive of incisors), 8.4 (7 8). 



Specimens E.ramined.— Two, both from the tj'pe locality. 



Bemarks.—Xatalus major has been compared with eighteen spe- 

 cimens of X. stramineus from the island of Dominica. None of 

 the latter at all closely approaches it in size. 

 Natalus mexioanus sp. nov. 



Type. — Adult female (in alcohol), No. 96,496, United States 

 National IMuseum (Biological Survey collection). Collected at 

 yanta Anita, Lower California, Mexico, in July or August, 1897, 

 by J. F. Abbott. 



Characters.- Smaller than Xatalus stramineus ; skull with ros- 

 trum more tapering anteriorly. 



.\Color. — In color as in other external charactei-s Xatalus mexi- 

 canus apparently does not differ from X. stramineus. The only 

 specimens of the latter that I have seen are, however, preserved 

 in alcohol. Two well-defined color phases occur, a yellow and a 



'Measurements iu parentheses are those of an aduit male X. stramin- 

 euK from the island of Dominica (No. 113,630). 




400 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF piav, 



brown. lu the former (represented by the type) the fur is every- 

 where ochraceous, that of the under parts uniform from base to tip 

 of hairs, that of the back slightly washed with clay color. In 

 the brown jihase the fur is broccoli-brown, somewhat paler beneath 

 the surface and on the under parts. All shades of iutergradatiou 

 between the two phases may be found in any series of specimens. 



Skull and Teeth. — In general form the skull is like that of 

 X. stramhiens, but the biaincase is smaller and the anterior part of 

 the rostrum is more tapering, differences readily appreciable ou 

 comparison. 



Measurefinents. — External measurements of type: Total length, 

 95; tail, 53; tibia, 19; foot, 7.6 (7); forearm, 35.4; thumb, 

 5; second finger, 37; third finger, 77; fourth finger, of!: fifth 

 finger, 57; ear from meatus, 14; ear from crown, 12. 



Cranial measurements of type: Cireatest length, IG (17);'" 

 basal length, 14 (15.6); basilar length, 13 (14); zygomatic 

 breadth, 8 (9); interorbital constriction, 3 (3.2); greatest breadth 

 of braincase above roots of zygomata, 7.6 (7.8); mandible, 12 

 (13); maxillary tonthrow (exclusive of incisors), 7 (7.8); man- 

 dibular toothrow (exclusive of incisors), 7 (7.8). 



Specimens Examined. — One hundred and seven, from the follow- 

 ing localities in Mexico: Campeche — Apazote, 1 (skin); Durango 

 — Chacala, 25; Jalisco — Ameca, 17; Itzatlan, 1 (skin); Lower 

 California — San Jose del Cabo, 3 ; .Santa Anita, 2 ; Sinaloa — near 

 Mazatlan, 1; Plomasas, 9; Eosario, 42 (7 skins); Tuxtla — San 

 Andres, 4 (1 skin); Vera Cruz — Mirador, 2. 



Remarks. — Natalus mexicanus differs from its South American 

 representative in the same characters and to about the same extent 

 as Dei'monotxis fulmis and Chilonycteris mexicanus. In all three 

 cases intei'gradatiou probably takes place between the large southern 

 form and the smaller northern one. 



Chilonycteris portoricensis sp. nov. 



Type — Adult female (skin and skull). No. 102,358, United 



States National ^[useum Collected in cave" near Pueblo Viejo, 



Porto Rico, W. I., March 19, 1900, by L. Stejueger and C. W. 



Richmond. 



'"Measurements in parentheses are those of au adult male Xatalnn 

 stramineus from the island of Dominica (No. 113,605). 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 401 



Characters.— Similai- to the Cuban Chilonyderis booth! Guufl- 

 lacli, but with smaller ears. 



Color. — Upper pai-ts i-ather dark brown, the exact shade inter- 

 mediate between the hiiir-brown and bistre of RidL^way. Under 

 parts broccoli-brown washed with ecru-drab, particularly on 

 throat. Wings and ears an indefinite blackish -brown. 



Skull and Teeth. — The skull and teeth resemble those of Chilo- 

 nyderis boothi in all respects. From that of the Jamaican C. par- 

 nellii the skull is similarly indistinguishable, but the teeth differ 

 notably in the greater size of the second lower premolar. This 

 tooth, crowded quite out of the toothrow in C. parnellii, so that the 

 first and third premolars come fully in contact, is, in C. boothi and 

 C. portoricensis, so placed as to separate the first and third by a 

 distinct space readily noticeable when the toothrow is viewed from 

 the outer side. This character, though apparently trivial, is per- 

 fectly constant in a series of seven specimens from Porto Kico, four 

 from Cuba, and two from Jamaica. 



Measurements. — External measurements of type: Total length 

 (skiu), 92; tail (skin), 22; tibia, 18.8; foot, 10 (9); forearm, 

 51.4; thumb, 8; .second finger, 42 ; third finger, 85; fourth finger, 

 58 ; fifth finger, 58 ; ear from meatus, 20. 



Cranial measurements of type: Greatest length, 20; basal 

 length, 18.fi; basilar length, 17; iuterorbital constrict ion, 4; lach- 

 rymal breadth, 7.4; zygomatic breadth, 11; mandible, 15; maxil- 

 lary toothrow (exclusive of incisors;, 8.8; mandibular toothrow 

 (exclusive of incisors), 9. 



BemariiS. — The forms of the Chilonyderis parnellii group from 

 Cuba, Jamaica and Porto Rico may be distinguished by the follow- 

 ing key : 



First lower premolar in contact with third, the second crowded out 



of toothrow on lingual side, C. parnellii. 



First lower premolar not in contact with third, the second in tooth- 

 row, though usually displaced toward lingual side : 



Ear from meatus 23-24 mm., C. boothi. 



Ear from meatus 19-21 mm., .... C. portoricensis. 



Chilonycteris mexicana sp. nov. 



Type.— Aduk male (skin and skull). No. 89,277, United States 

 National jMuseum (Biological Survey collection). Collected at 

 26 




402 PKOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



San Bias, Tepic, Mexico, June 9, 1897, by E. W. Nelson and E. 

 A. Goldman. Original nnmber, 11,132. 



Characters. — Similar to Chilonycteris rubiginosa, but .■-ize smaller 

 and color (in brown jjhase) much less dark. 



Color. — Browii plia>e, represented by the type: Dorsal surface a 

 uniform brown, most closely resembling the broccoli-brown of Kidg- 

 way, but darker and with a mixture of both hair-brown and drab. 

 The individual hairs are nearly uniform throughout their length, 

 though the bases are faintly darker and the tips lighter. Uuder 

 parts wood-brown, nuieh lighter than Kidgway's Plate III, fig. 19, 

 the hairs distinctly dark slaly-brown at base. Ears and membranes 

 brown, somewhat darker than body. 



Yellow phase: Entire body and head tawny-oehraccous, the hail's 

 of the upper parts uniform, those of Ihe belly dull brown at ba,se. 



Skull and Teeth. — Except for their .smaller size, Ihe skull and 

 teeth do not differ appreciably from those of Chilonycteris rubigi- 

 nosa. 



Measurements. — External measurements of type: Tolal length, 

 82; tail, 20; tibia, 19.4; foot, 11.6 (10); forearm, 54; thnnd), 

 Y; second finger, 45; third finger, 90; fourth finger, 71; fifth 

 finger, 67; ear from meatas, 21. 



Cranial measurements of type: Greatest length, 20 (22) ;" ba.-;al 

 length, 19 ( — ); basilar length, 17 (19); interorbital cousli"icliou, 

 4.4 (4.4); lachrymal breadth, 7..H (8.6); zygomatic breadth, 11.8 

 (13); mandible, 15 (17); maxillary toothrow (exclusive of in- 

 cisoi's), 9 (10); man<libular toothrow (exclu.sive of incisors), 

 9.4(11). 



Specimens Examined. — Ninety -four (9 skins), from the following 

 localities iu Mexico: Colima — Hacienda Magdalena, near t'ity of 

 C'olima, 14; Durango — Chacala, 8; Jalisco- -Anicca, 5, Bolaiios, 

 4 (1 skinj, near Omettsijec, 3; Morelos (exact locjility not known), 

 4; Oaxaca — Hnilotei)cc, 1 (skin); Tepic — San Bias, 55 (7 skins). 



Re)narlcs. — The large Chilonycteris rubiginom is represented in 

 the I^atioual Maseum collection by three specimens, one from 

 Choutales, Nicaragua, and two from the island of Trinidad. They 

 agree very clo.sely iu size, forearm (il-(i2 nnn., ami are not ap- 

 proached by any of the ninety-four specimens of C. mexicana. 

 Thev are also much darker in color. 



" Measurements in pareuthcscs are those of an adult ChilonycUrU 

 Tubiginuta from Cbuntales, Nicaragua (No. 37,515). 




1902.] N4TDEAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 403 



At San Bias Chilonyderis mexicana was very common in a small 

 narrow cave which extended like a deep crevice into the base of the 

 cliff on the hillside facing the town. 



Mormoops tumidioeps sp. nov. 



Type. — Adult male (in alcohol), No. 5,581, collection of Dr. C. 

 Hart ^lerriam. Collected in the Point Gourde Caves, Trinidad, 

 1889, by Sir William Robinson. 



Characters. — Externally similar to Mormoops megalophylla; skull 

 larger and more swollen than that of the Mexican animal. 



Color and other External Features. — After many years' immer- 

 sion in alcohol the specimen presents no external characters to dis- 

 tiuguish it from Mormoops megalophylla. 



Skull and Teeth. — The skull differs from that of Mormoops 

 megalophylla in greater size, due to increased breadth of both ros- 

 trum and braincase, though particularly of the latter. There is no 

 other evident difference in form. Teeth as in M. megalojyhylla 

 except that the pi'emolars both above and below are slightly larger, 

 a difference which may readily prove to be no more than indi- 

 vidual. 



Measurements. — External measurements of type: Total length, 

 92; tail, 2(3; tibia, 22; foot, 11 (10.4); forearm, 55; thumb, 7; 

 second digit, 50; third digit, 102; fourth digit, 73; fifth digit, 

 65; ear from meatus, 14; ear fronu crown, 8. 



Cranial measurements of type: Greatest length, 15 (14.6) ;'^ basal 

 length, 15 (14.6); basilar length, 13.2 (13); niedian palatal 

 length, 8.6 (8.4); ]ea.st interorbital breadth, 5.6 (5); lachrymal 

 breadth, 7.4 (7); zygomatic breadth, 9.8 (9.2); mastoid breadth, 

 9.2 (8.6); greatest breadth of braincase, 10 (8.8); mandible, 13 

 (12.8); maxillary toothrow (exclusive of incisors), 8.2(8); 

 mandibidar toothrow (exclasive of incisors), 8.8 (8.4). 

 Specimens E-vamined. — One, the type. 



Remarks. — The differences between Morm.oops megalophylla and 

 M. tumidieeps are of the same kind and extent as those separating 

 Natalus mexicanus from iV. straminens and Chilonycteris me.ricana 

 from C. rubiginosa. The Trinidad Mormoo2)s is very different 

 from the small M. intermedius of Cura9ao. 



" Measurements in pareiitlieses are those of an adult male Mormoops 

 megalopJiylla from Tampico, Mexico (No. 60,378). 




404 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF Play, 



Dermanura rava sp. nov. 



%>e.— Adult d' (skin and skuU), No. llo,3.38, United States 

 National MiL«eum. Collected at San Javier, northern Ecuador, 

 August 10, 1900, by G. Fleming. Original number, 12. 



Characters. — ^Smaller than Dermanura cinerea and D. tolteca and 

 color much paler; ear with narrow whitish border. Skull smaller 

 than that of D. tolteca, the palatine foramina much more numerous. 



Color. — General color a light yellowish-brown, intermediate 

 between the cream -buff and clay color of Ridgway, the upper 

 parts, especially the region behind shoulders, washed with broccoli- 

 brown. Face vrith four ill-defiued whitish stripes. Ears and 

 membranes light brown, the former distinctly edged with whitish. 



Skull. — Except for its noticeably smaller size, the skull does not 

 differ from that of D. tolteca Ln general appearance. It is distin- 

 guishable, however, by the number of small foramina in the palate, 

 which persist as two conspicuous rows of small pcrfoiations even 

 in very old individuals. 



Teeth. — The teeth are similar to those of Dermanura tolteca, 

 except that they arc uniformly smaller. 



Measuretnents. — External measurements of type (from well-made 

 skin): Head and body, .55; tibia, 14; foot, 9.ti (8.(i); forearm, 

 36; thumb, 10; second digit, 32; third digit, 82; fourth digit, G2; 

 fifth digit, 59; ear from meatus (cstunated), 14; uo.seleaf from 

 margin of lip (dry), 10. 



Cranial measurements of type: Greatest length, 20 ('22.4);'''' 

 basal length, 17 (20); basilar length, 15 (17); median palatal 

 length, 9 (10); zygomatic breadth, 12 (13); mastoid breadth, 11 

 (12 J ; iuterorbitid constriction, 5 (6); mandible, 13 (14.()); 

 maxillary tootlirow (exclusive of incisors), 7 (7.4); mandibular 

 toothrow (exclusive of incisors), 7 (7.4). 



Specimens Examined. — Ten, from the following localities in 

 northern Ecuador: Sail Javier, 2 ;' Corondelet, 4; Pambilar, 4. 



Remarks. — The series of ten specimens shows very little indi- 

 vidual variation. In two skins from Corondelet the color is less 

 yellow and more gray than iu the othei-s, a difference probably due 

 • to dichromatism. 



" Measurements in parentheses are those of an adult male Dermanura 

 tolteca from Tetela del Vulcan, Morelos, Mexico (No. 52,051). 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 405 



Dermanura phaeotis sp. nov. 



Type. — Adultfemale (skiaaudskiillj, Xo. 108,176, Uuited States 

 National Museum (Biological Survey collectiou). Collected at 

 Chicheu Itza, Yucalau, February 10, 1901, by E. W. Xelson and 

 E. A. Goldman. Original number, 14,537. 



Characters. —Size and color as in Dermanura rava, but ears 

 much darker and without the whitish border. Skull with broader, 

 flatter rostrum than in the South American form. 



Form, Color, etc. — In general appearance this bat so closely 

 resembles Dermanura rava that no sijecial description is necessary. 



Ears. — In form the ears are similar to those of Dermanura rava, 

 but they appear to be slightly larger, and in color they are a uni- 

 form darker brown, \\'itliout trace of the whitish edging. 



Skull and Teeth. —The skull closely resembles that of Dermanura 

 rava, but the rostrum is broader and flatter and the median back- 

 ward extension of the bony palate is wider. Molar teeth appar- 

 ently a little narrower than in the related species. 



Measurements. — External measurements of type: Tibia, 14; 

 foot, 9 (8); forearm, .37; thumb, 9.(); second digit, 31 ; third digit, 

 78 ; fourth digit, 62 ; fifth digit, 57. 



Cranial n\easurements of type: Greatest lenglh, 19; zygomatic 

 breadth, 11.6; mastoid breadth, 10. 



Specimens Examined. — One, the type. 



Jiemarks. — Dermanura pha'otis is closely related to D. rava, but 

 its characters are not closely approached by any of the ten speci- 

 mens of the latter. 



Vampyrops fumosus sp. nov. 



Type. — Adult female (skin and skull). No. 105,530, United 

 States National Museum. Collected on the Puras river, Brazil, 

 March 24, 1901, by J. B. Steere. Original number, 24. 



Characters. — Related to Vampyrops infuscus Peters and V. dor- 

 salis Thomas, but size larger and color paler than in either. Face 

 stripes barely indicated. Dorsal line present, but very faint. 



Color. — General color broccoli-brown, slightly darker on bead 

 and nape, slightly paler on shoulders and sides of neck, the under 

 parts washed with ecru-drab. From noseleaf to ear can be traced 

 a faint pale stripe, not different in color from the surrounding parts. 

 Dorsal line whitish, extending from neck to rump. It is plainly 

 visible when the fur is smooth, but a slight disari-angement of the 




406 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [^laV, 



hairs causes it to disappear. Ears and membranes brown, not as 

 dark as in Vampyrops vittatus, the only large species at hand. 



SJcuU and Teeth. — The skull is considerably smaller than that of 

 Vampyrops vittatus, but nnt noticeably different in form, except 

 that the intero'-bital region is narrower and more distinctly concave. 

 Anterior nares a little mo'-e produced backward (han in the larger 

 species. 



Teeth as in V. vittatus, bul uniionnly much smaller, (he outer 

 upper incisors excepted. These are actually as well as relatively 

 larger than in the larger animal. 



Measurements. — External nieasuremenls of type (from skin) : 

 Head and body, 70; tibia, 24; foot, 13 (12); forearm, 5() ; 

 thumb, 17; second digit, 40; third digit, loO; fourth digh, 93; 

 fifth digit, cSS ; ear from meatus. If); width of ear, 11.4. 



Cranial measurements of type: Greatest length, — (30) ;" basal 

 length, — (28); ba.^ilar length, — (24.4); median palatal 

 length, 16 (16.6); interorbital constriction, 7 (7.6); zygomatic 

 breadth, 18 (19); mastoid breadth, — (16); breadth of palate 

 between middle molars, 8 (8.4) ; mandible, 21.8 (22.4) ; maxillary 

 toothrow (exclusive of incisors), 12 (12.0); front of canine to 

 back of second molar, 11.6 (12); mandibular lootlirow (exclusive 

 of incisoj-s), 18 (13.4).'' 



Specimen E.ramlncd. — One, the type. 



Remarks. — This species is readily distinguishable from Vampyrops 

 vittatus by its smaller size, lighter color, and by the faintness of the 

 face markings and dorsal line. In size it approaches V. redfinus 

 and V. infuspHs, though it is larger than either ; forearm, .5(5, as 

 opposed to 41 in T'; reciflnus and 52 in V. infmcus. FrDm the 

 latter it differs in the presence of the white tlorsal line. The upper 

 incisore probably show the firet suggestion of the form found iu 

 Vampyrops zarhinus and ■ V. recifimis, a,s the middle pair are 

 smaller than in V. vittatus. They are, however, practically iu 

 contact with each other, though with a lens a slight space between 

 them can be detected. 



" ^Iciisurements in parentheses are those of an aduH female Vampyropt 

 mtititua from Valparaiso, Santa Marta roirioii, Colombia (No. 15,101, 

 Am. 5Ius. Nat Ilist.), kindly loaned by Dr. J. A. Allen. 



'^Some of the cranial measurements of the type of V. reeifinus given 

 bj' Thomas (Ann. and Mag. Nat. Ilist., 7th scr., VIII, p. 192, Septem- 

 ber, 1901) are as follows : Greatest length, 24 ; basal length, 19 ; front of 

 canine to l)ack ot second molar, 8.4. 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 407 



Stenoderma luoiae sp. nov. 



Tj/pc— Adult female (in alcohol), No. 110,921, United States 

 National Museum. Collected on Santa Lucia Island, West Indies, 

 Febmary 4, 1901, by H. Selwyn Branch. 



Characters. — Larger than Stenoderma nichollsi of Dominica, its 

 nearest geographical ally, and inner upper incisors more noticeably 

 bifid. Much smaller than S. viontserratense, and with a distinct 

 white shoulder spot. 



Color. — After a year's immersion in alcohol the color of the fur 

 is a uniform clay color, that of the back, limbs and membranes 

 strongly washed ^vith wood-brown, that of the under parts some- 

 what lightened by faintly paler hair-tips. A small but very dis- 

 tinct whitish spot on shoulder at pfiint where membrane joins body. 

 Ears and noseleaf light-brown. ^lembranes dark-brown through- 

 out, except that the antebrachiuni has a distinct pale border extend- 

 ing from base of thumb halfway to shoulder. Bones of fingers 

 and distal half of forearm much lighter than membrane. 



Ears, Membranes, etc. — The ears, membranes and external 

 features in general are as in a topotype of S. nicholki. 



Skull. — The skull is distinctly larger than that of Slenodernut 

 nichollsi, but of essentially the same form throughout. 



Teeth much more robust than those of iS. nichollsi. The inner 

 upper incisor is very distinctly bifid, in this respect differing nota- 

 bly from that of the related species. Crowns of first and second 

 molars rather broader relatively to their length than in S. nichollsi. 

 Posterior molar minute, its area scarcely more than half that of 

 middle incisor. Second lower molar with outline of crown more 

 nearly square than in S. nichollsi. 



Measurements. — External measurements of type: Head and 

 body, 65 (53);" tibia, 19 (16.4); foot, 12.6 (12); foot without 

 claws, 12 (11); forearm, 47 (44); thumb, 15 (11.6); second 

 finger, 41 (36); third finger, 110 (96); fourth finger, 76 (70); 

 fifth finger, 71 (6G) ; ear from meatus, 18 (18) ; ear from crown, 

 14 (18.6); width of ear, 14 (14). 



Cranial measurements of type: Greatest length, 23 (20.4) ; basal 

 length, 20 (17); basilar length, 17 (15); interorbital constriction, 

 6 (5.4) ; zygomatic breadth, 15 (13.6) ; mastoid breadth, 12 (11) ; 

 breadth of palate between middle molars, 4.4 (3.6); mandible, 



'* Measurements in parentheses are those of an adult male S. nichollsi. 




408 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [iVIaV, 



13.4 (12); maxillary toothrow (exclu^ve of incisors), 7.6 (6.4); 

 front of canine to back of second molar, 7.2 (6); mandibular 

 toothrow (exclusive of incisors), 8 (6.8). 



Specimens Examined. — Four, all from the type localit}'. 



Reinarks. — Stenodemia lucioe is readily distiugui-ihable from <S'. 

 montserratense by ils smaller size and white-spotted shoulder, and 

 from S. nichollsi by its larger size, heavier teeth, and distinctly 

 bifid inner upper incisors. 



Hemiderma tricolor .=p. nov. 



Ti/pe.— Adult ? (skin and skull), No. 114,005, United States 

 National ]\[iisouni. Collecled in cave at Sapucay, Paraguay, 

 December .j, IDOlj by William Foster. Original number, -589. 



Characters. — Size and general appearance as in Hemiderma per- 

 spiciHatnm, but fur longer and more silky in texture and the three 

 color bauds on the hairs of back strongly contrasted. 



Color. —Hairs of dorsal surface with three sharply defined color 

 bands. Beginning at base these are (a) hair-lirown, much darker 

 lliau that of Kidgway, 4 mm. ; (6) grayish-white, 5 mm. ; and 

 (c) hair-brown like that of base, 2 mm. The extreme tips show a 

 faint silvery-gray wash which varies in intensity according to light. 

 As the fur is loose and silky in texture aud everywhere glossy and 

 variable with light the combination of colors is diflicult to describe. 

 On crown of head, sides of neck aud region between aud imme- 

 diately behind shoulders the gra}ish-white appears cons]5icuously at 

 surface, but elsewhere the hair-brown is in excess. The slightest 

 disarrangement of the hairs brings the light band prominently into 

 view. The color pattern of the l)ack may be traced across under 

 surface of neck, thougii nuich dulled. On chest and belly the basal 

 area is a dull brownish slate color, succeeded by a narrow silvery- 

 grayish band and a still narrower terminal strip of broccoli-brown. 

 The extreme tips have the same gloss as those of the back, but 

 the general color is broccoli-bro\vn. 



Skull and Teeth. — The skull and teeth do not differ appreciably 

 from those of Hemiderma per.*picillatuiii. 



Measurements. — External measurements of type : Head and body, 

 68;" tibia, 16.4; foot, 13 (11); forearm, 42; thund), 13; second 

 finger, 32; tiiird finger, 91; fourth finger, 6-5; fifth finger, 66; 

 ear from meatus, 20. 



" From fresh specimen, by collector. 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 409 



Cranial measurements of type: Greatest length, 22.4; basal 

 length, 19.6; basilar length, 17.6; interorbital constriction, 5.6; 

 mastoid breadth, 10. .S; mandible, 15; maxillary toothrow (exclu- 

 sive of incisors), 7.4; mandibular toothrow (exclusive of in- 

 cisors), 8. 



Specimens Examined. — Six, all from the type locality. 



Remarks. — Adults are very uniform in coloration, the five speci- 

 mens showing no variations worthy of note. A half-grown young 

 is dark sooty brown above, ilull slaty behjw. The tricolored pat- 

 tern of the hairs of the back is nearly as distinct as in the adults, 

 and much more so than in Henideri/ia perq)icillatH<n. 



Brachyphylla nana sp. nor. 



3V/}e.— Skull No. 103,828, United States National Museum. 

 Collected at El Guama, Cuba, March 10, 1900, by William Palmer 

 and .J. H. Riley. Original number, 108. 



Characters. — External characters not known. Skull much smaller 

 than that of any other described member of the genus, its basal 

 length only 22 mm. 



Skull. — In general form thi' skull closely resembles that of true 

 Bru'ihtjphylla cavernarum from the island of St. Vincent, but the 

 interorbital region is less rounded and the interpterygoid fossa 

 extends forward to within 1 mm. of po.sterior outline of palate. 



Teeth. — The only teeth preserved are the anterior maxillary 

 miliars. These differ xerv conspicuously from the corresponding 

 teeth of B. cavernarum in their much smaller size and in the rela- 

 tively greater breadth of the palatal side of the crown. 



Measurements. — -Basal length, 22 (28);" basilar length, 21.6 

 (25); median palatal length, 10.4 (14); z_ygomatic breadth, 14.6 

 (17.4); breadth of braincase above roots of zygomata, 12 (13); 

 interorbital constriction, 6 (6.8) ; lachrymal breadth, 8.4 (9) ; 

 distance between outer edges of anterior upper molars, 9.8 (11); 

 distance between inner edges of anterior upper molars, 5 (5.6) ; 

 maxillary toothrow (alveoli, exclusive of incisors ), 9 (11); crown 

 of tirst upper molar, 3 x 2.6 (3.4 x 2.8). 



Specimen Examined.- -One, the type. 



Remarks. — The single skull on which this species is based was 

 found in a pellet of the Cuban barn owl. This and other 



'" Measurements in parentheses are those of a topotype of Braehyphylla 



cavernarum (^, No. 106,085). 




410 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



pellets of the same birds contained remains of Artibeuis, Phyl- 

 lonyderis jweyi and Mas alexandrimt^s. 

 Monophyllus cubanus sp. nov. 



Type.— \du\t male (skin and skull), No. 113, (>74, United 

 States National ^Maseum. Collected at Bavacoa, eastern Cuba, 

 Feb'uary 6, 1902, by William Palmer. Oriirinal number, 645. 



Characters. — Nearest the Jamaican Monoplvjllus redmanl, but 

 size less and skull with nunower rostrum and less deep jwsterior 

 portion of mandible. 



Color. — Upper parts broccoli-brown, rather darker than Ridg- 

 way's Plate III, No. 15, except in region across shoulders. Be- 

 neath ecru-drab, much tinged with dull brown. In some skins the 

 brown of the upper parts approaches prouts-brown. Ears and 

 membranes blackish. 



Skull and Teeth. — The skull resembles that of Monophyllus red- 

 mani in general appearance, but the rostrum is much more slender, 

 a character equally noticeable whether viewed from above or below. 



Zygomata similar in form to those of M. redmani, but more 

 lightly built. Mandible more slender than that of M. redmani, 

 the difference particularly noticeable in the posterior jiortion, where 

 depth at a jioint midway from coronoid process to condyle is much 

 less relatively to distance between these points than in the JamaicJin 

 animal. 



Teeth as in Monophyllus redmani. 



Mea.virement.i. — External mea.surements of type: Total length, 

 67; tail, 8; tibia, 16; foot, 11 (10); forearm, 38.fi; tluimb, 11; 

 second finger, 35; third finger, 80; fourth finger, 57; fifth finger, 

 50; ear from meatus, 13; ear from crown, 11.4; width of ear, 7.6. 



Cranial measurements of type: Greatest length, 21.4 (22.4);" 

 basal length, 20 (21.4); basilar length, 18 (19.4); zygomatic 

 breadth, 9. (J (10); least iuterorbital breadth, 4 (4); breadth of 

 rostrum at space between premolars, 3.2 (4); greatest breadth of 

 bi-aincase, 9 (9); maxillary toothrow ^exclusive of incisors), 8 

 (8.6); mandible, 14 (15 4); mandibular toothrow (exclusive of 

 incisors), 8.4 (9). ■ 



Specimens Examined. — Fifty-six (9 skins), all from the type 

 locality. 



"Measurements in parentheses are those of an adult male Monophyllus 

 redmani from Kingston, Jamaica (No. 64,480). 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 411 



Remarks. — Monophyllus cubanus is readily Jistingiiishable from 

 -1/. redmani by its small size aud lightly built skull. In the general 

 form of both skull aud teeth it is, however, more closely related 

 to the large Jamaican species tluin to the smaller members of the 

 genus. 



Monophyllus luciae sp. nov. 



%}e.— Adult male (in alcohol), No. 106,095, United States 

 National Museum. Collected on Santa Lucia Island, West ladies, 

 February 4, 1901, by H. Selwyn Branch. 



Characters. — Most nearly resembling Monophjllas plethodoii of 

 Barbados, but larger aud with less crowded teeth. 



Color. — After about a year's immersion in ram the specimens are 

 rather darker and more tinged with red than in Monophijllm 

 cubanus, but this character may be the result of the action of the 

 preservative fluid. 



Skull and Teeth. — In general form the skull agrees with that of 

 Monophyllm plethodon, and differs from that of M. redmani and 

 M. cubanus in the large, inflated braincase, broad interorbital 

 region and short rostrum. The zygomatic arches are strong and 

 well developed, more so, apparently, than in M. plethodon. Ros- 

 trum broader than in the Barbados species. 



Teeth as in Monophijllm plethodon, except that the first upper 

 premolar is separated from tlie canine and also from the second 

 premolar by a narrow space, of much less extent, however, than in 

 the other members of the genus. 



Measurements. — External measurements of t}'pe : Total length, 

 80; tail, 15; tibia, 19; foot, 11 (10); forearm, 42; thumb, 11; 

 second finger, .35 ; third finger, 88 ; fourth finger, Ho ; fifth finger, 

 55; ear from meatus, 15; ear from crown, 11; width of ear, 10.4. 



Cranial measurements of type: Greatest length, 24 (21.6);-" 

 ba.sal length, 22 (19.4); basilar length, 19.6 (17.8); zygomatic 

 breadth, 10 (9.8); least interorbital breadth, 4.4 (4.6); breadth 

 of ro.strum at space between premolars, 4.6 ( — ); greatest 

 breadth of braincase, 9.8 (9.8); maxillary toothrow (exclusive of 



^"Measurements iu parentheses are those of the type of Monophyllus 

 plethodon. 




412 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF PlaV, 



incisors), 8 (7.2); maDdihle, 15 (14); maudibular toolhi-ow (ex- 

 clusive of incisors), 8.4 (7.8). 



Specimens Examined. — Sixteen, all from the type locality. 



Remarks. — As might be exj)ected, the Monophyllm of Santa 

 Lucia is nearly related to that of Barbados. Its larger size and 

 less crowded teeth readilv dL«tiusuish it. 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 413 



THE MOLLUSCA OF THE MT. MITCHELL REGION, NORTH CAROLINA. 

 BY BPvYAXT WALKER AND HENRY A. PILSBRY. 



This report is based iipou niaferial collected by ]\Iessrs. James H. 

 Fe.'Tiss and Bryant Walker in the summer of ISJOl. 



The results of the " Pentadelphiau " expedition of 1899 to the 

 Great Smoky mountains' demonstrated the fact that these moun- 

 tains, notably in their higher portions, possessed a fauna peculiar 

 to themselves and quite distinct from that of Roan Mountain 

 ■which lies about seventy-five miles to the northeast. And in 

 connection with this, it was stated that " the mountain region 

 between the Nolachucky and Clingman's Dome is wholly unknown 

 malacologically. ' ' 



The expedition of 1901 «as undertaken primarily for the pur- 

 pose of exploring Mt. Mitchell, the highest peak of the Appa- 

 lachian range, with an altitude of 6,711 feet, of whose fauua 

 nothing was known except a few species collected by Hemphill in a 

 hurried visit nearly twenty years before, and incidentally to deter- 

 mine, if jiossible, whether the valley of the French Broad river, 

 which here breaks through the mountains, is the dividing line 

 between the Roan antl Great Smoky faunas. 



The party consisted of ^lessrs. Ferriss and Walker and two 

 ladies. Leaving the railroad at Paint Rock, N. C. , a little station 

 on the French Broad river just over the line from Tennessee, alti- 

 tude about 1,200 feet, two days were spent in exploring the banks 

 on both sides of the river. 



From there the route lay almost due south for ten mountam miles 

 to Bluff mountain, which is the highest of the range lying south 

 of the river for a consldei'able distance. It took the wretched 

 crowbaits which hauled the camp equipage in a wagon that weighed 

 more than the load, all hands pushing up the steep grades, nearly 

 all day to reach Baker's, an old lumber camp, which marked the 

 end of wagon travel. Here camp was made, and the next morn- 



' Vide these Proceeding/, 1900, p. 110. 




414 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [^lav, 



ing the party " loled " themselves aud their luggage to the summit. 

 Bluff mountain derives its uame from the loog, narrow plateau 

 nearly three-quarters of a mile in length which forms its top, the 

 highest point of which is about 4,700 feet abo\'e the sea. The 

 State line between Tennessee and Korth Carolina cro.sses its western 

 extremity. The forest here is eutirely of hard wood, and the 

 greater part of the plateau is covered by high trees. Host of the 

 underbrush has been cleared off from the summit, which is fre- 

 quently used for camp meetings and other public gatherings. iNlost 

 of the collecting here was done along the sides of the cove on the 

 Tennessee side, where Wolf creek heads. The southern exposures, 

 as usual, were too dry for satisfactory work. 



Three days were sufficient to satisfy the party that the fauna was 

 substantially that of the cove region, and that the mountain was 

 too low for the development of any special fauna, such as had been 

 foimd on the higher summits both to the north and the south. 

 Aud, as the mountains immediately north of the river offered no 

 better prospect, it was decided to return to Paint Rock aud proceed 

 directly to Mt. Mitchell. 



From Black ^Mountain station on the Southern Railroad, the 

 journey was made by wagou to Tyson's, au aucieiit inn at the foot 

 of the Black Moimtain range. Here the baggage was loaded on 

 horses for the ten-mile climb to the summit of ]\It. ]\litcholl. The 

 roa<l followed up tiie course of one of the branches of the North 

 Fork c f the Swannanoa river to its headwaters, from which a 

 shar]) ascent leads to the top of the ridge at Patton's Knob, at an 

 elevation of (),000 feet. From there the trail leads nearly due 

 north aniuml I'otato Top, directly over Clingman's Peak (Mt. 

 Gibbs on the map of the Topographical .Survey), which is only a 

 few feet lower than Mitchell, and where FerrLss " drew the fii-st 

 blood" by tindiug the long-sought Vitrea clingmani under a log 

 beside the trail, and then winding around the Hallbaeh, and across 

 Wilson's (Jap on up to ]\Iitchell. Here the summit is a small 

 " bald," in the centre of which is the grave- aud monument of 

 Prof. Flislia ^Mitchell, who lost his life while exploring this moun- 

 tain m l8o7. Camp was pitched just beyond the summit, at the 

 head of a grassy slope aud near a fine spring of the purest water. 

 The forest extends clear to the lop of Mitchell, and in some places 

 the tops of trees have been cut off to allow a view from the 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 415 



" bald" wliich crowns the summit. It is almost wholly spruce 

 and balsam, a few birches being found here and there. Open 

 places are quite fre(|ueut, and are often covered with a dense growth 

 of the hellebore, the favorite food of Pulygyra andrewsce. The 

 ground is saturated with moisture and the rocks and fallen trees are 

 covered wi(h thick moss, which needs only to be sat upon to remind 

 one of a sponge. 



Twa days were spent exploring the upper slopes of the moun- 

 tain. Then Ferriss, with one of the guides, left on a three days' 

 trip, following the Black Mountain chain to the north, along which 

 five great peaks ^e.re to be seen ranging from 6,300 to 6,600 feet, 

 and which seemed from the camp to be higher even than Mitchell 

 itself. Following bear tracks along the ridge, he went as far north 

 , as the fourth peak (Cattail), from which he descended along 

 Cattail branch to the Caney river, and thence up through "Wil- 

 son's Cove to Mitchell, stopping for a short time at Meadow Cove. 

 Two days were spent by the parly in Wilson's Cove, which is 

 heavily timbered with great basswoods and buckeyes, and most of 

 the material was collected there. An attempt to follow down the 

 northeast slope of the mountain along the headwaters of Rock 

 creek, a tributary of the Toe river, was blocked by a high fall in 

 the creek and was also conchologically a failure. 



After spending a week on Mitchell, the party returned to Pa(- 

 ton's Knob. Here Walker left to return home, and Ferriss con- 

 tinued the work alone. He explored Potato Top (6,600 feet), 

 and crossing the gap which separates the headwaters of the Swau- 

 nanoa river from those of the Toe, ascended the Pinnacle of the 

 Blue ridge (alt. 5,600 feet), reaching the headwaters of the South 

 Toe river on its easterly slope. 



Returning again to Patton's Knob, he followed along the ridge 

 to the west, camping at Balsam Gap, between the Ivy and Swan- 

 nauoa rivers (all. 5,000 feet). " Here the spruce forest ceases 

 and the buckeyes and beeches set in." From this camp he went 

 down the west slope of the gap to the Ivy river. Leaving the gap, 

 he continued south along the ridge of the Great Craggy mountains 

 as far as Big Craggy, where he camped until he was literally 

 drowned out by the great storm of August 12 to 19. It rained 

 almost continually while on Craggy, so that but little coUectmg was 

 done. But he got down into Bee Tree Cove on the west side while 




416 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



there. " Timber was scarce ou the tops of the Cra£rgies. There 

 ■was much pasture, and some of the red rhododendron. Wide 

 ' balds,' but exceedingly rocky, the most mountainlike of anything 

 I have seen " (J. H. F.). After the return from Craggy, the 

 remainder of the time was spent in exploring Tyson's Cove. 



The Fauna. 



So far as the material before us affords a ba.^is of judgment, it 

 goes 1o show : 



First. — That the French Broad river i.s not in itself the dividing 

 line between the Koan and Smoky faunas. 



Second. — That in all probability there is no sharp line of de- 

 markation anywhere. But that in the intermediate region lying 

 between these faunal centres, the speci&s peculiar to each mingle to 

 a greater or less extent, according as they find acceptable condi- 

 tions of environment. 



Third. — That in tlie French Broad river region the?e are a 

 number of peculiar forms which tend to show that it has, at least, 

 .some of the characteristics of a distinct faunal area. 



Thus, in the species which inhabit the lower levels between the 

 mountains, and whicii may be considered as the cove fauna, we find 

 that the great majority are species common in the Appalachian 

 range along its whole extent. Occasionally, however, in these, 

 such as Polygyra tridentuta and Pyramidula altermda, locid races 

 are developed, wliich are eiiiiiieiitly characteristic of ilie different 

 regions. 



In addition to these species of general occurrence, we find others 

 which are apparently restricted to narrower limits and which, with 

 tlie local races above mentioned, give these areas the ]H'culiar 

 features, wliich taken in connection with the .still more differenti- 

 ated elements occupying the higher levels, justify their separation 

 as distinct faunas, or rather faunulas. 



Taking the whole region from Roan to the Great Smoky moun- 

 tains into consideration, however, we find that .so far as the cove 

 species are concerned, the differences are not so great as Ihey 

 appear at first sight, and that in reality they are comparatively 

 small though sufficiently well marked. The only s])ecies peculiar 

 to the coves around T{i.>an are the large and small forms of Polygiint 

 tridentiiUt, Pyrumidula bryanti, Polygyra »ubp<il/iaki and Onijjha- 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 417 



Una rugeli. Of these, the first three are found as far south, at 

 least, as the French Broad, and the last two are offshoots from 

 the summit fauna slightly modified by more favorable conditions of 

 enviroument. lu the same way, of the species inhabiting the coves 

 of the Smoky moimtains, only Polygyra chridyi, P. depilata,^ 

 Pyramidula altcrnata costata, Omphalina fuliginosa ])olita, Ompha- 

 lina lavigata latlor and perlcevis, Zonitoides patuloides and Punetum 

 blandianum have not as yet been found to range far enough to the 

 north to mingle with the southern extension of the Roan species. 

 Polygyra chilhoweensis, P. pilula, P. monodon cinda and Strobilops 

 labyrinthica strebeli extend at least as far north as the French 

 Broad river, and some of them much further.' 



Thus we find a large proportion of what were supposed to be the 

 characteristic cove species of Ihese two regions mingled together in 

 the valley of the French Broad. 



On the other hand, just as there are some species peculiar to each 

 of these regions, so we find in the coves tributary to the French 

 Broad drainage a few characteristic forms, which seem to be 

 (without exception) lacking in the coves both to the north and the 

 south. 



From Bluff mountain to jNIitchell, throughout this region, there 

 appears a peculiar form of Polygyra andrewscB, which is inter- 

 mediate in size and shape between the typical andreiusm of Roan 

 and Mitchell, and the larger variety normalis, which inhabits the 

 coves from Roan to the Little Tennessee river, and is decidedly 

 characteristic of the French Broad I'egion. It extends, however, 

 north into the lower coves of the Roan region. 



The beautiful and long-lost Pyramidula alternata mordax is 

 apparently restricted to a small portion of this area. 



The almost total absence of typical Gastrodonta gularis, so abun- 

 dant in Roan and in the Smoky mountains, and its replacement by 

 two j)eculiar forms, var. theloides A. D. Brown and var. deciissaia 

 P. and v., is also another striking feature of this region. Again, 

 we find iu the French Broad valley a number of species, mostly 

 common and widespread, which are found in the Roan region, but 



^The "P. depilata" collected at Johnson City, Tenn., by Rhoads (P. 

 A. N. S. P., 1896, p. 493) is P. stenotrema nuda. {Vide these P'oceed- 

 ings, 1900, p. 129.) 



'^ P. chilhoweensis, Campbell Co., Tenn. (Wetherby), and Carysville. 

 Campbell Co., Tenn. (Walker and Clapp coll.). 



27 




418 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



which seem to be missing iu the coves of the Smoky mountains. 



Such are : 



Pohjgyra inflecta. Polygyra clausa. 



Polyrjyra sayii. Vitrea hammonis. 



Polygyra altwpira. Omphalina fuliginosa. 



Polygyra profunda. 



Several of these species have a range along the Cumberland 

 plateau considerably further south. But the assiduous collecting 

 of Ferriss and others during several years has wholly failed to 

 discover them in the coves of the Great Smoky range. Whether 

 the valley of the French Broad is practically the southern limit of 

 the range of these species along the main chain of the Appalachians 

 is not known, as the region south of Bluff mountain is as yet 

 wholly unexplored. But, from the comparatively few specimens 

 found iu 1901, it would seem to be a fair inference that such was 

 the case. 



Taking aU these factors into consideration, we would say (hat as 

 a whole, the cove fauna of the French Broad valley is more closely 

 related to that of the Koan region than to that of the Great Smoky 

 mountains. 



The same general fact appears also when the fauna of the higher 

 elevations is considered. 

 • The characteristic species of the Roan summit fauna are : 



Pohfjyra andrewsce (typical). Ga-itrodonta capsclla placentula. 



Polygyra wheatleyi. Gastrodonta gularis. 



Polygyra f^bpcUiata. Gnstrodouln wcrra. 



Polygyra aliisi^ira. Gastrodonta aiidrewso'. 



Omphalina riigeli. Ga-strodoutu ecelaxls. 



Omphalina subplana. Gadrodonta lamellidens. 



Vitrinizonite^ latisdnnts. Philomycus ivelherbyi. 



Vitrea sculptilis. Philomycus hemphilli. 



Vitrea carolinenm. Suceinea ovalis. 



Gastrodonta capsella. 



Of these, 



Polygyra wheatleyi. Vitrea carolinenm. 



Omphalina subplana, Gadrodonta gularis (in its vari- 



Vitrinizonites lalissimm. ous forms). 



Vitrea sculptilis. Gastrodonta acerra. 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 419 



Gastrodonta capsella. Philomyciis hemphlllii. 



Gastrodonta capsella plaeentula. Sucdnea oralis, 

 Gastrodonta lamellidens. 



are all toiind on the summits of the Smoky mountains and nearly 

 all of Ihem on Mitchell or Bluff mountain. 



Of the remainder, Polygyra andrewsce is the characteristic species 

 of ]\It. ]\Iitchell, and Pohjfjyra altUpira and Gastrodonta andrewsw 

 were found generaUy distributed in the French Broad region, so 

 that Polygyra subpalliata, Omphalina rugeli, Gastrodonta ccelaxis 

 and Philomyeus ivetherbyi are really the only species peculiar to the 

 Eoan summit. 



Upon the higher levels of the Smoky mountains, on the other 

 hand, we find a larger number of peculiar species which do not 

 seem to extend so far north as the French Broad. These are : 



Polygyra ferrissii. Omphalina andreivscB montivaga. 



Polygyra clarkii. Vitrinizonites lasitismus. 



Vitrea petrophila. Vitrinizonites uvidermis. 

 Vitrea pentadelphia. 



The apparent poverty of the higher peaks of the French Broad 

 region in peculiar species was both a surprise and a disappointment. 

 The probability that j\It. ilitchell, the giant of them all, would at 

 least furnish a rival to the beautiful Polygyra fei-rUsii seemed so 

 great, that the failure to find one was scarcely compensated by the 

 rediscovery of the rare little Vitrea clingmani Dall. This seems 

 to be the only species peculiar to IMt. Mitchell, and the expedition 

 felt like engraving on its highest pinnacle the old proverb : "monies 

 parturiunt, nascitur ridiculus mus." 



The following list of all the species known from the mountain 

 region lying between Roan mountain and the Little Tennessee river 

 will show the general range of each species in the three districts 

 that have been exi^lored, upon which the foregoing remarks have 

 been based : 




420 proceedings of the academy of 



Comparative List. 

 R. =Roaii ; F. = French Broad ; S. = Smoky, 



[May, 



Helicina 'occulta 



Polygyra iridentata 



tridentata temiesseensis. 



frauduleiita 



rugeli 



inflecta 



profunda 



iuyii 



c?iilhoweensis 



albolahris 



albolabris major 



exoleta 



ferrisM 



suhpaUiata 



paUiata 



appressa perigrapta 



clarkii 



andrewaoB 



andrewam normalis 



andreicsm aUivaga 



andretesm intermedia . . . 



thyroides 



clnnsit 



wheatUyi 



christyi 



edwardsi 



edwardsi magnifumoaa. . 



stenotrema 



depilata 



Idrsiita 



pilula 



altiapira 



monodon cincta 



Strobilops labyrinthica stre- 



beli 



Bifidaria eontraeta 



pentodon 



Vertigo bollesiann 



Gochlicopa lubrira 



Circinaria concata 



Omphalina kopnodes 



fuUginoaa 



Ompluilina fuUginoaa polita. 



liBvigata 



laevigata laiior 



Imvigata pterlaevia 



rugeli 



aubplana 



andrewam 



andreioam montivaga. . . . 

 Vitrinizonitea latiaaimns . . . . 



latisaimua uvidirmis. . . . 

 Vitrea fiammonis 



wheatleyi 



clingmani 



pctrophtla pentadelphia. 



indentata 



rhoadai 



aculptilia 



Caroline naia 



earoUnenaia loetherbyi. . . 



fcrrea 



approxima 



icanattai 



KuconuUia atcrkii 



fulvua? 



cherainua 



Zonitoides arboreua 



patuloidea 



minuaculua 



milium 



clliottii 



Gaatrodonta intertexta 



xi 



accrra 



demisaa 



cerinoidea f 



ligera 



gularis 



gularis lawa 



gularia thcloidea. . 

 gularia decusaata . 

 gularia cuspidata . 



auppreasa 



ctelaxia 



* P. clauaa was not found in Smoky mountains. It occurs, however, 

 at Hayesville, N. C. 



'This species also occurs at Lickstonc mountain, near Waynesville, 

 N. C. 



'Cited by Wethcrljy. We have seen no specimens, and it is quite 

 probable that the identification is erroneous as the group had not been 

 differentiated when Wetherby's list was published. 



'These species were cited by Wetherby in 1881. As they are not 

 included in his later ]iaper (1894), it is probable that he Tound that bis 

 former identification was erroneous. 




1902.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



421 



Gastrodonta interna. . . 



andrewsm 



multide ntata 



lamellidens 



clappi 



walkeri 



significanaf 



capsella 



eapsella placentula . 

 AgrioUmax campestris. . 

 Fhilomycus carolinensis 



loetherbyi 



hemphilH , 



Pyramidula alternata 



alternata fergusoni f . . . . x 



alternata costata 



alternata mordax 



perspectiva 



iryanti 



Helicodiscua lineatus 



Panctiim pygmceum 



blandianum 



Sp7tyradium edentulum.. . . 



Succinea avails 



Carychium exiguum 



List of Species. 



HELICINID^. 

 Helicina occulta Say. 



Wilson's Cove, Mt. jMitchell. A few large specimeiis, diam. 7^ to 

 8 mm., were found imder the dead leaves around the roots of the 

 basswoods and buckeyes ; all were of the uniform deep reddish-yellow 

 color characteristic of the species from other localities. There was 

 no apparent tendency to the great variation in color noted by Weth- 

 erby in the Roan moimtain specimens. 



HELICID^. 

 Polygyra tridentata (Say). 



With the exception of the large variety found at Paint Rock 

 mentioned below, this species, which was found nearly everj-where, 

 shows but slight variation from a common type, which seems 

 decidedly characteristic of the whole region from Roan to the 

 Smoky mountains. It is usually rather small, varying from 12i 

 to 14 mm. in diameter at Roan to 17 to ISJ at Bluff mountain. 



The size seems to increase quite regularly from the nortli to the 

 south, specimens from Cat-tail (14 to 15) being smaller Ihan 

 those from Wilson's Cove (13f to 15J), while these are decidedly 

 smaller than those from Paint Rock and Bluff mountain. This 

 race, for it hardly seems to be sufficiently differentiated to be entitled 



* Specimens from Roan before us belong to tbe smootb form herein- 

 after mentioned, but are not typical fergusoni. Wetherby's specimens 

 were probably the same. 




422 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF ' [May, 



to''varietal rank, is characterized by closely coiled whorls and 

 usually rather high spire, in this respect showing some approach to 

 P. fraudulenta. But the aperture is usually quite typical in the 

 position and shape of the lip teeth. Occasional specimens exhibit 

 a slight tendency to " dishing" of the upper portion of the lip, 

 but in such instances the deepest conca^^ty of the lip is between 

 the labial teeth rather tliau opposite the uuper tooth, as in fraudu- 

 lenta, nor is there any rounding out of the upper lip so character- 

 istic of that species. The shell is usually of a deep reddish horn 

 color, with a rose-tinted lip, and closely aad rather heavily striate. 

 Wetherby (Joum. Cin. Soc. N. H., 1894, p. 211) has called at- 

 tention to this form as peculiar to the TJoan region, and the material 

 before us shows that it extends through this whole region with but 

 slight variation except in size. The "buttressed" lower toolh 

 developed in the Smoky mountains" seem* peculiar to that region, 

 as no tendency in that direction aptiears in any of the shells col- 

 lected in the French Broad drainage. Three of five specimens 

 from Bluff mountain have an luiusually heavy wide flat white lip, 

 which sensibly diminishes the aperture. In addition to the locali- 

 ties already mentioned, Ferriss reports it from Tyson's Cove, 

 Meadow Cove, Ivy river. Toe river and Bee Tree creek. 



Polygyra tridentata tennesseensis ». v. 



At the foot of the high bluffs which line the south side of the 

 French Broad river below Paint Rock, just over the line in Ten- 

 nessee, there occurred a very distinct form of P. trideniata, char- 

 acterized by its large size, depressed complanata-Wka form, but 

 closely and regularly striated. The lip is that of the typical 

 tridentata, with rather small marginal teeth. Of twenty specimens 

 the snmllcsl was 19 and the largest 24 mm. in diani., the average 

 being 'I'lh- Only two were less than 21. This form is probably 

 the same as that mentioned by Wetherby'" from Braden mountain, 

 Campbell county, Teun., and is the same described by Cla])p" from 

 Oakdale, .Morgan county, and Concord, Kuox county, Tenu. It 

 is also the same form found at Elizabethton, Tenn., and errone- 

 ously by one of us referred to var. complanata." The Elizabethton 



» Vide these Proc, 1900, p. 117. 

 sojourn. Cincinnnti Soc. JV. H., 1904, p. 212. 

 " These Proceedings for 1900, p. 117. 

 "Nautilus, XII, 120. 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 423 



examples are lighter iu color than the Paint Rock specimens and 

 rather smaller, being from 19^ to 21 J mm. in diameter, in this 

 respect resembling the Morgan county shells, described by Clapp. 

 Polygyra fraudulenta Pilsbry. 



Meadow Cove, a single typical example, diameter 1.5 mm. 



Polygyra rugeli (Shuttl.)- 



Of general occurrence, but not so abimdant as iu the Great 

 Smoky mountains. At Paint Rock, south side, where it occurred 

 with P. tridentata tennesseensis, the specimens were uniformly 

 large, 1.3^ to 14^ mm. in diameter. Another lot from the same 

 side, collected later by one of the guidas, but probably further 

 down the river, were smaller, 11 to 12|- mm. Similar specimens 

 ■were foxmd at Paint Rock creek, on the north side of the river. 

 This seems to be the prevailing size throughout the French 

 Broad region, and only occasional specimens from Bluff mountain, 

 Tyson's Cove and AVilson's Cove exceeded 1.3 mm. in diameter. 

 Ferriss found a few si)ecimens also at Meadow Cove, Ivy river, 

 Toe river and Bee Tree creek. 



Polygyra inflecta (Say). 



At Paint Rock, on the south side of the river, all tlie specimens 

 •were small, 9 to 9^ mm. iu <l;ameter, with the whole shell more or 

 less tinged with pink and frequently the lip as well. 



In the coves around ]\[itchell, Cat-tail, Tyson's and Wilson's, 

 all the sjjecimens were albinos and quite large, 1^^ to 14 mm. in 

 diameter. Not a single normally colored individual was found in 

 any of these localities. While occasional albino examples are not 

 uncommon in nearly all the American Helicidte, this occurrence of 

 a race whoUy albino inhabiting a large extent of territory is quite 

 without precedent. Why this one sjjeeies should be affected iu this 

 way is difficult to understand. None of the other species in the 

 district exhibited any tendency to albinism to any greater extent 

 than is likely to occur anywhere. It forms one of the striking 

 peculiarities of the JNIitchell faima, and is analogous to the occur- 

 rence of Polygyra suhpalliata at Roan, which is always of the same 

 pale -green color. 



Polygyra profunda (Say). 



Paint Rock, south side, two specimens only; evidently scarce. 




424 PROCEEDIKGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



Polygyra sayii (Binn.). 



Paint Rock, south side, and Wilson's Cove, a few sj>ecimens with 

 no sj^ecial characteristics. 



Polygyra chilhoweensis (Lewis). 



Paint Rock creek, on the north side of the river. Two speci- 

 mens only. This extends the range of this species considerably 

 farther north than has hitherto been recorded." 



Along the Cumberland plateau it has, however, a range consid- 

 erably farther north, having been found in Campbell county by 

 Wetherby." Similar specimens are now in the collections of G. 

 H. Clapp and Bryant Walker. It seems probable that the French 

 Broad valley is about the northern limit of the range of this 

 species along the Appalachians. 



Polygyra albolabris (Say). 



This species occurred only at Paint Rock, on the north side of the 

 river, where it is apparently quite abundant. All the specimens 

 are more or less deeply tinged with rose and one is obscurely 

 banded below the suture. They are very similar to the Cade's Cove 

 examples mentioned in the report on the " Pentadelphiau " ex- 

 pedition. 

 Polygyra exoleta (Binn.). 



Paint Rock, .south side, two specimens. Cat-tail branch, one 

 example. 



Polygyra palliata (Say). 



Paint Rock, south side, four specimens, 22 to 24 mm. in diam- 

 eter; quite typical. 



Polygyra appressa perigrapta Pilsbry. 



Paint Rock, on both sides of the river, Bluff mountain and 

 Wilson's Cove. Isoticeably smaller and more compres.sed than 

 those from the Smoky mountains. Of fifteen specimens from 

 these localities, the smallest was 15-J^ nmi. in diameter, the largest 

 17^, average 16| mm., while those from the Smoky region range 



'^ In the J. II. Tliompson collection, now iu the .possession of one of 

 us, are two specimens labeled " Hoan Mt. ex auctoro." As the species 

 is not cited by Wetherby from Uoan and there are no specimens from 

 that locality in the Lewis collection, now owned by Mr. G. H. Clapp, it 

 seeros probable that there is some mistake in regard to the Thompson 

 shells 



^*Jour. C. S. N. n., 1894, p. 212. 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 425 



from 19 to 21i mm. and are iu every way larger and finer speci- 

 mens. 



Polygyra andrewsae (W. G. Binn.). 



The typical form of this fine species was quite abundant all 

 along the ridge from Clmgman Peak to Mt. Mitchell. It is partial 

 to the hellebore ( Veratnun viride) which grows rankly in the open 

 spaces, and was usually found either roosting beneath the large 

 leaves or hidden in the grass around the roots. The shells are 

 exceedingly fragile and were often crushed between the fingers in 

 the slight pressure occasioned by lifting them from their hiding- 

 places. They are uniformly of a dark olive-green color, with a 

 thin, narrow, concave lip. Of sixty-five specimens the largest was 

 27|- mm. in diameter, the smallest 22|-, average 24t%. Compared 

 with Roan mountain specimens they differ only in size, being on 

 the average slightly larger. Of thirty-nine Roan specimens the 

 smallest was 19, the largest 22 1%. The shells from both localities 

 are alike in the extreme fragility, narrow lip and shape. Ajid in 

 both places this form is found only on the highest parts of the 

 mountain. 

 Polygyra andrewsae normalis Pilsbry. 



This form is purely a cove dweller and is rarely found at an 

 elevation of more than 5,000 feet. From 1,200 to 4,000 is about 

 its usual range. It occurred sparingly on both sides of the river 

 at Paint Rock (alt. 1,200 feet), and on Bluff mountain as far up 

 as Baker's (alt. 3,000 feet). These specunens were of the usual 

 type and varied from 35J to 37^ iu diameter. 



It also occurred at Tyson's Cove (alt. 4,000 feet). Meadow Cove 

 and Wilson's Cove (alt. 3,500 feet). Those from Wilson's were 

 the largest yet seen. Of thirty-seven specimens, the largest was 

 AQ\ mm. in diameter, the smallest 34, average 37|-. They vary con- 

 siderably iu shape, frequently becoming subconical as shown by the 

 following measurements: 37^ x 32, 41^ x 35J, 39 J x 35 and 

 38J X 28J. Occasional pale-green albinos occurred. 



Polygyra andrewsae intermedia n. subsp. 



Throughout this region, occupying the higher levels from 3, 500 

 to 5,000 feet, and thus ranging above the var. normalis, but below 

 the typical andreivsce, was found a well-marked race which cannot 

 be satisfactorily assigned to any of the recognized varieties. It is 




426 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



intermediate between the typical form characteristic of the higher 

 altitudes of Roan and Mitchell and subsp. altivaga, which similarly 

 occupies the summits of the Smoky mountains. In texture, sculp- 

 ture, color and character of the peristome it is nearer to altivaga, 

 but in shape is more like the typical andrewsoe. On the whole, 

 however, it is more nearly related to the former. It may be char- 

 acterized as typical in shape, but larger, with a stronger, thicker 

 shell, closely and regularly striate, lighter in color being usually 

 with a strong j-ellowish tinge, frequently pale green, and occa- 

 sionally tinged with red ; the lif) is decidedly different from the 

 typical andrewsce, being broader and flatly reflected ; in many cases 

 the reflected portion is decidedly convex, being rolled back so that 

 the center of the face of the peristome projects beyond the outer 

 edge. Compared with var. altivaga it is decidedly less globose, 

 being wider in proportion to its height. The aperture also is propor- 

 tionately wider than in altivaga. 



It was first met with on Bluff mountain at Baker's, and ranged 

 from there to the summit. Of eight specimens, the largest was 

 30^ mm. in diameter, the smallest 2fiJ, average 28| mm. The 

 largest example compared with a Thunderhead specimen of the 

 same diameter, .'5()i mm., wdl show the following difference in height 

 and breadth which is characteristic of the race : 



nam. Total Alt. Alt. of Axis. 



Bluff mountain (intermedia), . . 30i 22 loj 



Thimderhead {altivaga), . . . 3oi 22 wl 



Potato Top (4,000 feet), six specimens, largest 30 x 20J, 

 smallest 2fiJ x 20, average 28i mm. 



Vance's branch. North fork of the Swauanoa river, two speci- 

 mens, rather heavier than usual, 26 x 20 and 26J x 20 mm. 



Bee Tree creek, Craggy mountains (alt. 3,500 feet), three 

 specimens similar to those from Vance's branch. Shells as thick 

 as those of subsp. noiinalis. These specimens are very close to 

 subsp. altivaga, and have the notch at the upjwr end of the j)eris- 

 tome as in that form. They measure 25, 27 and 27J mm. in 

 diameter. One of them is decidedly reddlsli horu-colored. On 

 Craggy, Ferriss found intermedia all along from 4,500 to 6,000 

 feet. He remarks that its habits are similar to those of Polygyra 

 exoleta and solitary. 



Two specimens from Balsam Gap, Ivy river (alt. 3,500 feet), 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 427 



^e more nearly allied to the typical form, both in texture and the 



refletd T" ""TT' """^ '" '''' ^"^°^P'^ ^^^ - decidedly 

 reflexed, and m the other the whole shell is strongly tinged with red. 



The, 2oJ and 26* mm. in diameter. There is no eyi- 



dence of any tendency to bands, nor to the deyelopment of a parie- 

 tal tooth so characteristic of altivaga, in any of these specimens 

 rh.s fom extends as far north as Eoan mo.mfain. Four speci- 



TrT?" M /T """f '" ""■ ^- '^*^^'°° ^- ^^ '^-^-^ "« -- ordi- 

 TL -f! ,r' T^ '' '''°'^' '^''^' ^^"'^'^^'^1 «^- co^^-ex lip, and 



26 X 19?t? T; °" '*''"■• ''''^•^ "^^^"'-^ 2' i - 23, 27i X 22, 

 ^b X 19j, 2. J X 21 mm., and approach yar. altivaffa yeiy closely. 

 Polygyra thyroides (Say). 



Paint Eock, north side; Tyson's and Wilson's CWes. Scarce. 



Polygyra clausa (Say). 



Two specimens only at Paint Eock, on the south side of the river. 

 Polygryra wheatleyi (Bland). 



This species was found nearly eyerywhere and usually in abund- 

 ance^ There IS no apparent tendency to develop a smaller race on 

 the higher portions of Mitchell as on the peaks of the Smoky 

 rrrvT',''''"'"^. three-fourths of the specimens from Mitcheil 

 ami Ca -tail were edentate, while those from Bluff mountain were 

 all dentate and with the outer margin of the lip dark colored 



Mit^h ,7" , r '? '' '' ""• '" '"^'"^*-' -^^"« "-- from 

 Mitchell and Cat-tail averaged larger, running from 14+ to 16 



Fernss^found It also at Paint Eock, Tyson's, Wilson's, Meadow 

 U)ve, Great Craggy, Bee Tree Cove and Toe river, 

 ^olygyra stenotrema (Fer.). 



Common on both sides of the river at Pamt Eock. One only 

 from ^\ ilson s Cove. All these have a rather wide lip notch 

 otherwise (ypical. ^ "jllu, 



Polygyra altispira PUsbry. 



Potygyra Mr^ta altispira Pilsbry, Nautilus, VII, p. 141 (April. 



This species was first noticed in 1881, by Mr. A. G Wetherbv 

 as a variety of the widespread P. hirsuta Say. Compared wiih 




428 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



P. hirsuta it differs in the following respects : P. altispira is more 

 elevated, the spire being conical, witli an additional whorl ; the 

 notch in the basal lip is wider, witli a well-developed tooth on each 

 side in place of an even edge, and the ' ' fulcrum ' ' is much 

 smaller. These differences are constant in a large series of each 

 examined and, in the absence of intermediate forms, warrant us in 

 giving altispira sjoecific rank. P. altispira is usually larger than 

 the other species. It is densely hirsute or bristly above and below, 

 the bristles erect and standing about as close as in P. hirsuta. 



P. depilaia of the Great Smoky range differs from P. altispira 

 chiefly in the shallower notch of the basal lip and the totally diverse 

 character of the surface. 



Mt. Mitchell, mostly large, 6^ x 9 to 9x11 mm., spire lower 

 than in Roan mountain types. Many of the lots are larger shells 

 than at Roan mountain, with the spire less raised. 



P. altispira seems to range along the eastern slope of tlic moun- 

 tains as far south at least as Swain and Jackson counties, where a 

 small form occurs at Balsam mountain and elsewhere. Tlie region 

 lying between AshcNnlle and these counties is wholly unknown 

 conchologically. Balsam moimtain, 5h whorls, diam. fully 8 mm. 

 Smallest from Jackson county, 5J whorls, diam. 7 mm. As small 

 as hirsuta, but have the wide notch, small fulcrum and rather harsh 

 or stiff pile of altispira. The character of the bristles sepai-ates 

 this small form from magnifumma. 



P. altispira was not found at Paint Rock, where it is apparently 

 replaced by P. pilula ; but nearly everywhere else it was found in 

 considerable abundance. The localities comprise Bluff mountain, 

 Mitchell, Cat-tail, Wilson's, Meadow Cove, Tyson's, Ivy river and 

 Bee Tree Cove. 



Polygyra pilula Pilsbry. 



Polygyra hirsuta pilula Pilsbry, Proc. A. X. S. Phila., 1900, p. 182. 



Paint Rock, on both sides of the river. This species was origi- 

 nally described as a variety of Polygyra hirsuta. lis occurrence at 

 Paint Rock was quite imexpected, and gives it a much more e.v- 

 tended range than was anticipated when firet noticed. This fact 

 and the evident stability of its peculiar characteristics, a.s shown by 

 the sj)ecimens before us, without any apparent tendency to merge 

 into the typical hirsuta, justify us in according to it specific rank. 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 429 



Polygyra monodou oinota (Lewis). 



Paint Rock, south side, ooe specimen, with the umbilicus some- 

 what smaller thau in the tx-^ies. 



Bluff mountain, two specimens, with umbilicus almost closed. 

 The occurrence of this species in the French Broad valley, far 

 north of any previous records, was one of the surprises furnished by 

 the collection of 1901. 



PUPID^. 

 fitrobilops labyrinthioa strebeli (I'fr.). 



Helix strebeli Pfr., Malak. Blatt., VIII, 71, t. 1., figs. 5-8 (1861). 

 Paint Rock, south side, a single specimen only. This Ls much 

 farther north than previously recorded and, like the preceding 

 species, is a striking example of the mingling in the French Broad 

 valley of the southern species with those coming from the north 



ACHATINID^. 



CocUicopa lubrioa (MiiU.). 



Potato Top, where Ferriss found typical examples, is the only 

 locality represented in the present collection. Walker found it, 

 however, several yeare previously on Town mountain near Ashe- 

 ville. 



CIRCINARIID^. 

 Ciroinaria concava (Say). 



Paint Rock, on both sides of the river; Bluff mountain, Wil- 

 son's, Tyson's, Cat-tail and Ivy river. 



Common everjnvhere and of good size, ranging from 17 J to 21f 

 mm. in diameter. 



ZONITID^. 



Omphalina faliginosa (Griff.). 



Typical specimens were found on both sides of the river at Paint 

 Rock. 

 Omphalina laevigata (Kaf. Beck). 



One mature specimen, 19 x 13i mm., and several immature ones 

 were taken on the north side of the river at Paint Rock. 



Ompbalina subplana (Binney). 



This was one of the most abundant species, both at Bluff moun- 

 tain and i\It. Mitchell. Very large fine specimens were found on 




430 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF Plaj, 



the south side of the rivei' at Paint Rock, frequently reaching 22 

 and 23 mm. in diameter. Both liere and at Bluff mountain a 

 peculiar form was found with more convex base, not excavated 

 around the umbilicus, and approaching 0. ritgeli W. G. B. JNIany 

 of the specimens from these localities were quite green. Found 

 also at Tyson's, Potato Top, Ivy river, Toe river, Wilson's and 

 Cat-tail. 



Omphalina andrewsse Pilsbry. 



Very rare, apparently at about the extreme of its northern 

 range, but quite typical. ]\It. Mitchell, 2; Wilson's,!; Potato Top> 



2, and Tyson's, 1. 



Vitrinizonites latissimus (Lewis). 



This species, which was not uncommon on Jit. ]\Iitchcll, wa.s 

 found only sparingly at other localities. Those from Bluff moun- 

 tain were considerably larger than those from Mitchell, reaching 

 19 J mm. in diameter. It occurred also at Paiut Rock, south side; 

 Tyson's, Wilson's, Meadow Cove and Bee Tree creek. 



Vitrea carolinensiB (Ckll.). 



Vitrea caroUnensit Ckll., Nautilus, XII, p. 120. 



Zoiiites carolineiisis Ckll., Binney, Bull. M. C. Z., XXII, p. 107, PI. 

 Ill, fig. 7. 



The type specimens as described by Cockerell have 5 whorls with 



a maximum diameter of 10 mm. This form occurred iu 1901 only 



at Paint Rock. It is not found in the Great Smoky mountains, 



and from present information it seems to be a rare form of very 



limited distribution. 



Vitrea caroUnensis wetherbyi Ckll. 

 Nautilus, XIV, p. 45 (1901). 



Paiut Rock, Bluff mountain, Tyson's, Wilson's, 'Mt. Mitchell, 

 Cat-tail, Pinnacle of the Blue ridge, Toe river and Potato Top. 



In the report of the expedition of 1899 the specimens of V. 

 caroUnensk were found to belong to a small race, ranging from 5J 

 to 7 mm. in diamctor. Cockerell has since distinguished it under 

 the above variital name. With the exception of "sonic from Paint 

 Rock, all the specimens collected in 1901 belong to this smaller 

 variety, which, though not found anywhere in abundance, occurred 

 in nearly every locjvlity. It is iutennediate between typical V. 

 earolinensis and ]''. indentuta^ 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 431 



Vitrea sculptilis (Bid.). 



A single specimen, diameter 8i mm. , was taken on Bluff moun- 

 tain. 

 Vitrea hammonis (Sirom.). PI. XXIII, figs. 10, u, 12. 



Paint Kock, south side, one specimen. The shell figured for 

 comparison ■with the following species is from IMohawk, N. Y. 



Vitrea olingmani Call. PI. XXIII, flgs. 1, 2, 3. 



ZoiiUes irheaileyi W. G. Binney, Man. Am. Land Shells, 223. 

 Vitrea toheatlcyi clivgmani Dai), Nautilus, XI, 100 (1890). 

 Vitrea clingmini Dall, Proc. A. N. S. P., 1900, p. 150, fig. 



As stated in Dall's description cited above, the tyjjes of this rare 

 species were taken by Hemphill at or near Clingman's Peak, or Mt. 

 Gibbs according to the map of the Topographical Survey. The first 

 specimens in 1 901 were found on Jit. Cliugman, beside the trail just 

 north of the summit. Four specimens were found under one log a 

 short distance below the summit of Mt. Mitchell on the northeast 

 side. It is evidently rare on Mitchell, as most careful search failed 

 to bring any more to light. A single specimen was taken on Wil- 

 son's Cove and another on Cat-tail. 



Fen'iss found it in some greater quantity on Potato Top, but it 

 appears to be rare even there. 



V. clingviani is peculiar to Black mountain range. It is one of 

 the largest of the Yitreas and, once seen, is easily recognized. The 

 animal is dark bluish-black, and when alive the whole shell 

 appears black ; in this respect it reminds one of Zonitoides nitidus 

 Miill. When cleaned the shell varies from a yellow to reddish 

 hom -color, but occasional specimens are tinged with green as stated 

 in Dr. Ball's description. 



Vitrea approxima W. and P., n. sp. PI. XXIII, figs. 7, 8, 9. 



Shell about the size and .shape of V. hammonis; glossy, smoky 

 greenish horn-color, tinged with pink above ; umbilicus roimd and 

 deep; slightly convex above, whorls 4^, regularly increasing, sur- 

 face sculptured above with irregularly spaced radial grooves similar 

 to those of V. hammonis, but less crowded and with microscopic 

 revolving impressed lines; aperture transversely rounded-lunate. 

 Alt. 2, greater diam. 4i mm. 



Two specimens only of this species, which cannot be satisfactorily 

 assimilated with any of the described species, were taken in Wil- 

 son's Cove, Mt. Mitchell. It is closely related to V. hammonis in 




432 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



shape, aud Lu the regularly increasing whorls, but differs in color, 

 in the less crowded sculpture of radial grooves, the presence of 

 microscopic revolving sculpture, which is absent in hammonis, and 

 in having nearly a whorl additional. In the examination of these 

 forms for the revolving sculpture a compound lens of at least 100 

 diameters Ls necessary for satisfactory results. V. luheatleyi and V. 

 2)etrophila pentadelphia, which have similar sculpture, differ in 

 having a more open umbilicus and in the rapid enlargement of the 

 last whorl. It differs from V. rhoadsi by the smooth base (F. 

 rhoadsi being radially grooved beneath), the closer radial grooves, 

 wider umbilicus, aud in color. 

 Vitrea vanattai P. aud W,, n. sp. PI. XXIII, figs. 4. 5, C. 



Shell rather narrowly umbilicate (the umbilicus about one-sixth 

 the diameter of the shell), depressed, tliin, honey-yellow and trans- 

 lucent. Sculpture of many deeply impre-'sed, irregularly spaced 

 radial grooves, much less conspicuous beucath, aud very fine, 

 rather faint, close spiral lines. AVhorls 5, slowly increasing, the 

 last much wider. Aperture oblique, broadly lunate, the peristome 

 simple aud thin as u.sual. Alt. hardly 2, diam. 4.5 mm. 

 Mt. Mitchell, two adult specimens and one young. 

 This species belongs to the same group as the preceding, from 

 which it differs in color, the more depressed body-whorl, less 

 crowded and deeper radial grooves, which are more distinct 

 beneath, in having a half-whorl more aud a wider umbilicus. In 

 V. hammonis the .sculpture is much closer, the grooves of V. 

 vanattai resembling those of the species of the section Glyphyalinia. 

 It resembles V. clingmani, but with the same number of whorls 

 the shell is much smaller, and the shape of the aperture differs 

 somewhat. 



It is named for Mr. Edward G. Vanatta, in recognition of his 

 long and careful work upon the smaller Zonitidte of the collection 

 of the Academy. 



The group of T'. liammonis, clingmani, approxima and vanattai 

 consists of species similar in general form and in the coarser sculp- 

 ture. V. hammonis differs from all the others by the smaller 

 number of whorls and less depressed contour ; V. clingmani, with 

 the same number of whorls as the following species, is conspicuously 

 larger. V. approxima and V. vanaitai have about the same uum 

 ber of whorb, but the former Ls greenish, less deeply sculptured, 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 433 



and with a narrower umbilicus than V. vanattai, which is yellow 

 and less fragile. 



V. clbujmani was ilrawn on a smaller scale than the other species 

 on the plate. 



Zonitoides arboreus (Say). 



Paint Kock, on both sides of the river, Bluff mountain ; ilitchell, 

 Cat-tail, Wilson's, Tyson's, Potato Top and Ivy river. In Tyson's 

 Cove this species was found in great abundance. It was also com- 

 mon on Potato Top. Elsewhere it seemed to be comparatively rare. 



In addition to the more obvious differences between this .species 

 and Vitrea hammonis, Z. arboreus under a glass of high power will 

 be found to have the surface covered with numerous very fine, 

 impressed revolving lines which are lacking in hairvmonis. 

 Zonitoides elliottii (Redfield). 



Common at Paint Rock, on both sides of the river, and at 

 Tyson's. A few were also taken on Bluff mountain and a single 

 specimen in Wilson's Cove, Mt. ilitchell. 

 Gastrodonta intertexta (Bioii.). 



Not taken in 1901. It occurs, however, at Asheville, where it 

 was found by Walker on a previous visit. 

 Gastrodonta acerra (Lewis). 



Paint Rock, Mt. ^Mitchell, Cat-tail, Tyson's, Potato Top, 

 ]\Ieadow Cove, Ivy river and Toe river. 



Apparently not as abundant in this region as it is either at Roan 

 or in the Smoky mountains. It was more numerous in tlio Mt. 

 Jlitchell region thau around Paint Rock and Bluff moimtain. As 

 usual in any considerable suite of specimens, there is considerable 

 variation in the height of the spire. Those from Cat-tail were 

 unusually fine, the largest examples of the two forms measuring 

 17-^ X 14 and l(i| x Hi mm. 

 Gastrodonta demissa (Biun.). 



Xot taken in 1901. It has been found on Town moimtain, near 

 Asheville, by Walker. 

 Gastrodonta suppressa (Say). 



This species did not occur in the collection of 1901. It has, 

 ho^\ever, been found at Asheville, on Town mountain (coll. 

 Walker). It was also found at Spencer's Cabin on Thunderhead in 

 1 899, but was overlooked at the time of making the report. 

 58 




434 PEOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [MaV, 



Gastrodouta gularis (Say). 



At Paint Rock, on the uortli side of the river, a form of this 

 species was taken n-hich is like the depressed examples from Hayes- 

 \'illc, X. C, mentioned in the report of the Pentadelphian expedi- 

 tion. Aside from this lot, no specimens were taken agreeing with 

 the form of gularis almost everywhere prevailing in the Great 

 Smoky mountains.'^ lu its place, three well-marked subspecies of 

 gularis occurred. 



Gastrodonta gularis theloides A. D. Brown, n. subsp. PI. XXV, flgs. l, 2, 3, i. 



Shell glossy, yellow, perforate, with moderately raised, dome- 

 shaped spire, composed of 7i to 8 narrow, closely coiled whorls ; the 

 last hardly regular at the periphery in adult shells ; rather strongly 

 striate above, nearly .smooth beneath, with faint traces of spiral 

 strite near the umbilicas, where the base is rather conspicuously 

 excavated. Aperture somewhat triangular, the sloping basal lip 

 being straight. The jieristome is acute, strengthened within by a 

 rather wide, loiv callous Hm. Adult shells are without teeth or 

 lamime. Alt. 4i— 5, diam. 7i-8 mm. 



Yoimg shells (5 to (> mm. diam , PL XXV, fig. 4) are nearly 

 discoidal, with the umbilicus as wide as in adults, base glossy, 

 sculptured like the adult shells, the aperture armed within with two 

 long strong lamellte, the summit of the outer one ciu'ving toward 

 the inner; there is also, in early stages, a smaller lamella peri- 

 pheral in position. 



" North Carolina " (A. D. Brown coll., Xo. r)(),!)14 A. X. 8.); 

 Black mountains, X. C. (Henry Hemphill); al)undaut on Bluff 

 mountain; a few only at ]\Ieado\v Cove, Wilson's and Ml. 

 Mitchell. 



Fig. 3 is from one of A. D. Brown'.s specimens; figs. 1, '2, 4 

 are from Bluff mountain shells, collected by Walker. 



This race was recognized by A. D. Brown many yeai-s ago and 

 named in his collection (now in coll. A. X. 8. P.), but it seems 

 never to have been characterized by him. ^'arious corresjxindeuts 

 in America and Enghmd have submitted similar shells to oue of 

 as, and had ihem so named ; owing to the desire fo avoid overload- 

 ing the nomenclature of a difficult group, tlie name has not hitherto 

 beep published. 



'■' Vide these Proceedings for 1900, pp. 142, 143. 




1902.] NATUEAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 435 



The specimeus now broug-ht to light denioustrate the necessity of 

 recognizing the race. It differs from G. g. lawce (W. G. B. ) in 

 the much narrower umbilicus ; from G. gidaris of the Great Smoky 

 moimtains in being toothless in the adult stage, and with a more 

 excavated base and straighter basal lip. No adult shell, in a large 

 number examined, jjossessed internal laminte. 



Gastrodonta gularis lawae (W. G. B.). PI. XXV, figs. 10, 11, 12. 



Zonifes placentuhis (Sliuttl.), W. G. Binney, Terr. JIoll. U. S , V., p. 



124, fig. 44, PI. Ill, f. L. (dentition) and remarks, but not the 



description (1878). 

 Zonites lasmodon var.'? W. G. Binuey, Ann. N. Y. Acad. Sci., I, 



pp. .358-303, PI. 15, f. e. (1879). 

 Zonites latci \V. G. Biniiev, 1st Supplement to Terr. Moll., V, p. 



142, PI. 2 (reprint of PI. 15, Ann. N. Y. Acad. Sci., I), fig. e 



(1883). Manual of Amer. Land Shells, p. 321, fig. 235. 



The shell is yellow, glossy, with moderately elevated, dome-like 

 spire, composed of 8 closely coiled whorls; surface rather closely 

 wrinkle-striate, the striae strongest near the suture, iveaker below, 

 where a few faint spiral striae may be traced. Last whorl rounded, 

 hardly angular, even in front. Umbilicus wide, open, deep and 

 well-like, the bases of the firet whorls visible in its depth. Aper- 

 ture small, irregularly lunate ; peristome acute, strengthened within 

 by a rather thin, diffused white callus, which becomes heavier 

 within the columellar margin, making a slight convexity or low 

 boss near the axis. Columellar margin somewhat straightened. 

 Alt. 4.7, diam. 7.8 mm., width of umbilicus 1.3 mm. 



The above description and figures 10-12 represent the type shell, 

 which differs from most other specimens in being without iiiterual 

 lamellffi. Binney (Supplement, p. 143) mentions that "there is a 

 variety in which is a heavy internal callous or plate-like teeth within 

 the aperture, " and this (PI. XXV, figs. 14, 15, 1(3, 17) is certainly 

 the prevalent form in the localities collected at in 1901. These den- 

 tate specimens have the long, strong, arching basal lamella of G. 

 gularis cuspidata. Whether the lamina-bearing form will eventu- 

 ally be separated from the toothless typical form remains for future 

 investigation, the material now available being insufficient for a 

 decision. 



This race has not hitherto been defined, although Binney has 

 figured it in three publications. The figures, however, were not 

 good, and on account of its association with the very different 

 G. placentula (Shuttl. ), it has not been generally recognized by 




436 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



studeuts of our laud suails. The toothless form occurs iu Monroe 

 county, Tenu., where it was collected by Miss Annie Law, together 

 with specimens provided with internal lamiure. These were dis- 

 tributed to Mr. Binney, Dr. James Lewis, and probably others. 

 The Lewis collection was sold, and there are specimens from this 

 source iu the collections of George H. Clapp, G. K. Gude, the 

 Academy of Natural Sciences, and perhaps othei-s. The toothless 

 specimen illustrated in figs. 10-12 is No. 294 of the Binney and 

 Bland collection, American Museum of Natural History, kindly 

 lent by Mr. L. P. Gratacap. It is the individual figured by 

 Binney, referred to at the head of this account. 



The form was given specific rank by Mr. Biuucy, but in our 

 opinion it is merely a subspecies of the variable G. fjularis, distin- 

 guished by the wider umbilicus, and the ab.sence of teeth in some 

 adult specimens. G. gularin theloides differs from laioan by its 

 very small umbilicus. In G. lasmodon the umbilicus is still wider. 

 The size of the umbilicus varies a good deal in the North Carolina 

 specimens. Thus in specimens from Paint Rock, measuring 8 mm. 

 diam., the umbilicus is from 1 to 1.7 mm. wide. 



The young shells are always toothed (PI. XXV, figs. 14, 15), 

 there being a long outer lamella, a shorter ba.so-columellar, and iu 

 early stages a small supra-peripheral jjlait. The umbilicus is broad 

 and the periphery situated liii,di on tlie last whorl. The sliell 

 figured measures 5 mm. diam. 



It is quite eonnuon on both sides of the river at Paint Kock. 

 Two only on Bluff mountain. 



Gastrodonta gularis deoussata Pilsbry and Vauatt;i. n. siibsp. I'l. X.W. ligs. .'>, 6, 7 



M. '.I, l:i. 



Shell somewhat dull, brownish, narrowly umbiticate, with moder- 

 ate or iiigh, dome-shaped spire, composed of 8 fiat whorls, the la^t 

 angular at the periphery. Closely, sharply and strongly striate 

 above, less so beneath, where there ai'c usually traces of spiral striw 

 near the perijjhcry. .Vporture lunate, peristome thin and acute, 

 armed within with a blunt toolii on the middle of the columelhi, 

 and a high, .*hort, erect lamella within the outer-ba^al margin. 

 Alt. 5. -5, diam. 7.H mm. Alt. T), diam. S.2 mm. 



Young shells (PI. XXV, figs. H, 13, diam. (j mm.) are bicon- 

 vex, depressed, acutely angular or carinate, more strongly striate 

 beneath than adults, and with llie .stria; on the outca- half nf tJie 




1902.J NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 437 



base decussated by many impressed spirals (fi?. »;. The iuferual 

 lamella are long, as iu the young of other forms of the gularis 

 group. 



Most abundant on Mt. Mitchell, the type locality. Found al^o 

 at Tyson's, Wilson's, Potato Top, Cat-tail, lyy "riyer. Bee Tree 

 Coye and Bluff mountain. 



This yariety was first recognized seyeral years ac^o by Mr 

 \anatta and one of (he present writers, among' specimens collected 

 by Mr. Hemphill, labeled " Black Mis., N. C." The specimens 

 were found with G. gularis theloides. On account of the small 

 number of specimens (two adult and one young), it was not defined 

 at that time. The abundant material taken in 1901 places the 

 subspecies upon a secure basis. It diffei-s from G. gularis and (he 

 racial forms subordinated to that species in the strong sculpture 

 comparatiyely dull surface, the decussation and acute c^arination of 

 the young shells, and the short, high, erect lamella of the adult 

 stage. Compared with G. columella Pils., the yar. decussata is seen ' 

 to differ in the closer and flat whorls of the spire, flattened instead 

 ot swollen base, carinate periphery, etc. Young shells resemble 

 G. intertexta iu sculpture. 

 Gastrodonta interna (Say). 



Common on both sides of the river at Paint Rock and at Tyson's 

 A few were also taken on Potato Top, Cat-tail and in Bee Tree 

 Coye. 



Gastrodonta andrewsae (W. G. Binney). 



^'ery abundant on Potato Top and not uncommon on Mt 

 Mitchell and Bluff mountain. A few were also taken on Cat-tail 

 and at Bee Tree Cove, Toe riyer and at Paint Rock, on the south 

 side of the riyer. One specimen from this last locality has the 

 teeth fused together, forming a continuous rib across the" cayity of 

 the shell as in G. lamellidens. 

 Gastrodonta lamellidens Pilsbry. 



A single .specimen was taken on Bluff mountain, and another on 

 the foe riyer side of the Pinnacle of the Blue ridge. 



PHILOMYOID^. 

 Philomyous oarolinensis (Bo.sc.). 



Xot so abundant as in the Great Smoky mountains. A few only 

 were seen on Bluff mountain and Mt. ^Mitchell. 




438 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [ilay, 



PMlomycus hemphilli (W. G. Binuey). 



j^Conunoii ou ~Sh. Mitchell, which is the type locality. 



ENDODONTID-ffi. 

 Fyramidula alternata (Say). 



The typical form occurred ouly at Paiut Rock, on Ijotli sides^of 

 the river. Those from ihe north .side have the ribs much heavier 

 and farther apart than those from the south side. 



At Tyson's, Wilson's and Ivy river were found smoother, lirighter 

 forms, approaching /e)'(/((so)ii Bid. .somewhat, especially iu the gloss, 

 but with the ribs more prominent. The spiral sculpture is well 

 developed, the spiral lines Ijeing unusually prominent. This'micro- 

 sculpture, however, is practically the same iu monlax. I'eriphcry 

 rounded. This is a race of the region, unlike the Great Smoky 

 forms and the antithesis of mordax. This form, according to 

 Wetherby'" (who refers it to var. fergusoni), is the only form of 

 alternata found at Koau mountain. Koan specimens, however, 

 though more lightly ribbed than those from Mitchell, are nearer to 

 them than to the typical fergusoni. The same form aLso occurs at 

 Elizabethtou, Teun., and Scott county, Va, In the latter locality 

 it is said to be " found only on trees high up on the mountains " 

 (G. H. Clapp). This tree-climbiug habit is also noticed by 

 Wetherby, but v.as not observed by any of the party in I'JOl. 



Pyramidula alternata mordax (Sbuttleworih). 



In 1852, Shuttleworth" described his Helix mordax from speci- 

 mens collected by Kugel in the mountains of North Carolina. Tiie 

 original description was reprinted by W. G Biuney in Terr. Moll., 

 Ill, p. 19, but by a clerical error the dimensions of Zonites placen- 

 tula, which was described at the same lime, were included in the 

 description of mordax. Shuttleworth's description may l)e trans- 

 lated as follows : 



" Shell widely and jicrsjiectively umbilicated, depressed, sub- 

 lenticular, carinate, thin, yellow horn-color, ornamented with inter- 

 rupted red streaks in bands, beautifully sculptured with strong 

 flexuose ribs above aud below; whorls o^, flat; aperture very 

 obli(jue, angularly cresccutic, oval ; j)eristome simple, acute. 

 Greater diam. 18, lesser Ifi, height 6 mm. 



^^Jour. Ciiieinniiti Soe. N. II., 1894, p. T.l. 

 " Hern. Mittkeil.. 1853, 195. 




1902.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



4:»J 



" Hab. in the mouutaiu? of Xorth Carolina; more than 12 speci- 

 mens taken by Rugel. 



" Obs. very close to H. alternaia, bnt distinguished by the 

 stronger ribs which are 1 mni. apart. U. cumberlandiana Lea 

 (perhaps a wholly abnormal form ) in which the carina is simila;', 

 differs (according to the figure) in haviris: the .^hcll only lightly striate, 

 not cost ate." 



3Iany attempts to identify this form have been made bv Binnev 

 and others, but, as stated by one of us,^' the shells usually labeled 

 morda.v are referable to another strongly ribbed form of altematn, 

 and do not fulfill the requirements of Shuttleworth's diagnosis given 

 above. 



As this was the only species of land snail belonging to the East- 

 ern fauna that had not been satisfactorily determined, the discovery 

 by Mr. Ferriss of specimens agreeing almost exactly with the orig- 

 inal description of mordax is a matter of great interest. These 

 specimens were found in Tyson's Cove (alt. 4,000 feet), which lies 

 between the Great Craggy mountains and the Pinnacle of the Blue 

 Ridge and at the southern extremity of the Black moimtaiu chain, 

 and in Bee Tree Cove (alt. 3,500 feet), which lies just west of the 

 Great Craggy mountains. As both Tyson's and Patton's Knob 

 were well-known resorts long before the Civil War, it is quite likely 

 that this is the original locality. Of course this is a mere supposi- 

 tion, but the fact that the form has never been found elsewhere, 

 and that in Shuttleworth's time the locality was one of the few 

 accessible to the ordinary traveler, would seem to render it quite 

 probable. 



There would seem to be no question Ijut these shells are the long- 

 lost mordax. They agree exactly with Shuttleworth's description 

 in having heavy ribs, fully a millimeter apart at the periphery, and 

 which extend on the under side into the umbilicus. The carina is 



'8 Nautilus, XV, p. ' 




440 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [-^1"}', 



■neirdeveloped, though rather more rounded thau in vur. carimtin 

 Pils., but llie under side just lielow the carina is distinctly concave, 

 as in Pyramidula bryanti. This disappears somewhat in full-grown 

 s])ecimens toward the aperture, but is always evident ou the tirst 

 two-thirds of the last whorl, and is particularly marked in the 

 young shells. The micro-sculpture is well developed, consisting of 

 very fine irregular lines of growth between the ribs, which are cut 

 transversely by numerous fine revolving lines. The only difference 

 observable in these shells is that of size. Of our specimens 

 none equals the dimensions given by Shuttleworlh. Our largest 

 example has a greater diameter of 17i, lesser 15, with an altitude 

 from Ihe base of 6| mm. If Shuttleworth's types measured only 

 6 mm. from the basal lip, they are more lenticular thau auy form 

 of ulternata yet known, and the true mordax yet remains to be dis- 

 covered. It is probable, however, that Shuttleworth followed Pfeiffer 

 in measuring the height from the base of the axis. 



The form here figured as P. a. mordax seems to be confined to a 

 particular zone on the mountainside, and does not appear to mix with 

 the smooth form of alternata. " It has the same habits as the com- 

 mon form, around old basswood and tulip tree logs, but the two 

 were never together. Mordax dwelt in the tulip tree belt, and 

 the common form was both above and below, but never in that 

 belt" (J. H. F.). 



Pyramidula perspectiva (Say). 



Paint Kock, on both sides of the river, fairly abundant; scarce 

 iu Wilson's Cove, and a single specimen only from Cat-tail. 

 Pyramidula bryanti (Harper). 



The original description of Harper'" is not as full in detail as 

 could be desired. Wetherby's observations™ are far more exact 

 and give a better idea of the specific characters. As he states, 

 " the whorls are heavily ribbed above and below, the rib termi- 

 ualing at a sharp angle on the upper and under outer edges of the 

 body whorl, leaving a concave space l)etweeu, which is comjiara- 

 lively smooth." In occassional .specimens, however, toward the 

 aperture the ribs, in a le.<s developed form, are carried acro.s* from 

 one carina to the other. The types came from Mitchell county, 

 N. C. , and probably from Koan mountain. At any rate, Koau 

 mountain specimens are quite tyj)ical iu every respect. Typical 



^''Jour. Cincinnati Soc. N. II., 1881, p. 258. 



^Jour. Cincinnati Soc. A". H., 1831, p. 338. Reprint, p. 7. 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 441 



examples were foimd uot uucommou at Paint Rock, on the south 

 side of the river, and specimens nearly so, differing, however, in the 

 less acute development of the lower carina, occurred in Wilson's 

 and Tvsou's Coves. 



On Cat-tail and Potato Top and in Bee Tree Cove, the specimens 

 have both the keels less acute, and are more striate Ijelow the per- 

 iphery. This form is intermediate between the typical bryanti and 

 the Mt. Mitchell form which has the characteristics of a well- 

 marked subspecies, the base being regularly costulate, the keels 

 blunt and the intereariual concavity nearly obsolete, much as in 

 perspcdim. Young shells, however, are less specialized and resem- 

 ble the intermediate form mentioned above. But the infernal 

 columellar tubercle, exceedingly constant in pers])ectiva, is wholly 

 wanting. It is a peripheral form, probably at the geographic con- 

 fines of the range of hryanti. 



SUCCINEID^. 

 Succinea ovalis Say. 



A single young specimen was taken at Paint Kock, on the south 

 side of the river, and two examples of the thin mountain form were 

 found in the gap between ^It. IMitcliell and Clingman's Peak. 



The form here referred to is that commonly known as S. ohllqua 

 Say. Say described Succinea oralis'^ in 1817 and iS'. ohllqua in 

 1824.^" Gould in 1841" referred the form commonly known as ovalis 

 to Say's ovalis of 1817. Say's types of ovalis are in the collection 

 of the Academy and belong to the form usually known as ohllqua. 

 This being so, oralis has priority and must consequently be used, 

 ohllqua falling into the svuouymy. The use of ohllqua for Say's 

 species was inaugurated arbitrarily by Dr. Amos Binney" in an 

 " attempt to reconcile the differences " in the use of the names by 

 retaining ovalis for Gould's species and applying to " I\Ir. Say's 

 species his second name ohllqua." This, of cour.se, he had no right 



to do. 



AMNICOLID^. 

 Pomatiopsis lapidaria (Say). 



A pale-green form of this species, rather more slender than the 

 common northern form, was taken at Paint Rock, on the south side 

 of the river. 



" J. A. iV: S. p., I, 15 (1817). 

 ^■Long's Exped., II, 260 {ISU). 

 *■' Invert. Mass., 194. 

 " Terr. Moll., II, 64. 




442 PEOCEEDIXGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May> 



FLEUROOERIDuS]. 

 Goniobasis proxima symmetrica (llalJ.)- 



Paiut Rock creek, X. C. This was the only species of fluviaiile 

 mollusk found during ihe trip. 



No indications whatever of Uuiouidie or PleuroceridiB were found 

 in the French Bi'oad at Paiut Rock. 



EXPLANATION OF PLATES XXIV AND XXV. 



[Ekrata. — Refereuccs to "Plate XXIII" on pages 431 and 4o2 

 should read Plate XA'/F.] 



Plate XXIV, Figs. 1, 2, Z.— Vitrea dingmani Dall. Potato Top, 

 Black Mts., N. C. No. 83,363 A. N. S. P. 



Fi>;-s. 4, T), Q. — Vitrea mnattai P. and W. lit. Mitchell, N. C. No. 

 83.2til A. N. S. P. 



Figs. 7, 8, d.— Vitrea npproxima W. and P. Ml. -Mitchell, N. C. No. 

 83,3(30 A. N. S. P. 



Figs. 10, 11. 13. — Vitrea hammonis (Strom). Moliawk, N. Y. No. 

 53 A. N. S. P. 



Plate XXV, Figs. 1, 3. — Gastrodonta gularis theloid.es (A. D. B.). 

 Bluff Mt., N. C. No. 83,3fi3 A. N. S. P. 



Fig. ?: — 0. (J. thcloides. Aperture of a specimen fVoni A. I). Brown's 

 collection. No. 5(i,914 A. N. S. P. 



Fig. 4. — G. q. thcloides. Basal view of a young shell liom Bluff Mt., 

 N. C. No. 83,203 A. N. S. P. 



Figs. 5, 6, 7. — G. ij. decussata P. and V. Three views of the tvpe, ^It. 

 Mitchell, N. C. No. 83,265 A. N. S. P. 



Fii;-. 8. — G. 'J. decnsMta. Much enlarged view of a segment of the 

 hase'ofa young specimen from Bluli" Mt., N. C. No. 63,3()4 A. N. S. P. 



Fig. 9. — G. y. (ifciissiita. Another specimen from the type lot, Ml. 

 Mitchell. No. 83,205 A. N. S. P. 



Figs. 10, 11, 12.— G. g. Imcte (AV. G. B.). Three views of the type 

 specimen. Diani. 8 mm. No. 294 of tlie "Binney and Bland Collec- 

 tion," American -Museum of Natural Historv, N. Y. 



Fig. 13. — G. g. decussata. Young shell from Bluff Mt., N. C. Same 

 specimen shown in fig. 8. 



Figs. 14, 15. — G. g. lawa. Young shell from North side of the French 

 Broad river at Paint Rock, N. C. No. 83,206 A. N. S. P. 



Figs. 16, 17. — G. g. lawa. Adult shell of the laminate form. North 

 side French Broad river, Paint Rock, N. C. No. 83,206 A. N. S. P. 




1902.] XATl-RAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 443 



SYNOPSIS OF THE AMEEICAN MARTENS. 

 BY SAMUEL N. EH0AD3. 



The results summarized in the following paper are based on a 

 rather extended examination of skins and skidls of Mustela 

 americana from representative localities throughout its \yide range, 

 from the northern United States to the treeless regions of the Arctic 

 zone. This study was primarily begun to determine the status of 

 the southeastern marten, in connection with my recent woi'k on the 

 mammals of Pennsylvania and New Jersey. It has resulted in 

 classing the southeastern animal as the most depauperate and light- 

 colored representative of the group, and belonging more strictly to 

 the type which Turton named from pale examples probably obtained 

 from southeastern or central Canada. For purposes of nomencla- 

 ture I have restricted typical americana to this region, making the 

 east and west coast forms and the northern race, described by later 

 authors, of subsppcific value. Owing to the wide variation of 

 color in this animal — skins from such widely separated habilats as 

 the Pacific and Atlantic coasts at the same latitude being often 

 found alike , and apparent dark or light races well known to the fiu- 

 trade coming from isolated localities not correlated with fauual and 

 floral environment in the zoogeographic sense — I have made such 

 characters of siibsidian- value to those of size and relative propor- 

 tion in body, tail and foot measurements, in the character of pelage, 

 and, above all, to cranial characters. As the latter have been 

 largely made the basis of the examinations of Brandt, Baird, 

 Gray, Coues and Allen, the chief monographers of the group, my 

 own remarks will be the more pertinent fn^m this standpoint. 



The number of American specimens of skins and skulls upon 

 flhich I have based these studies has been much larger than ever 

 before brought together. They may be roughly listed as follows : 

 Pennsylvania and Maine, 15; Quebec, 1; Ontario, S; Xorth 

 Labrador, 4; Xew Brunswick, 3 3; Colorado, 6; Mackenzie prov. , 

 X.W.T. ^= Great Slave lake to Mackenzie bay, 26; Alaska, 7; 

 British Columbia, Rocky mountains, 2 ; Cascade mountains, 

 Washington, 30. For the use of this fine series I am indebted to 




444 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [MttV, 



tlie officers of the American Museum of Natural Historj', Field 

 Columljian Museum, U. S. National Museum, Museum of Com- 

 parative Zoology and the Academy of Natural Sciences, Phila- 

 delphia. 



Only skulls of the oldest adult males have been iLsed in the com- 

 parative cranial diagnoses and measurements, viz., those iu which 

 the upper cranial sutures have so disappeared that the nasals are 

 indistinguishable from the premaxillaries. I am aware that Dr. 

 J. A. Allen has long ago {Bull. U. S. Geol. Sur. Territ., 187(1, 

 Vol. 3, pp. 328-330) arrived at the same conclusions that I have 

 reached concerning the small size of southern American martens 

 by an independent iuvestigatiou, iu part, of the same specimens. 

 But his researches were chiefly directed to a consideration of the 

 differences between the American and Old World martens, and did 

 not include specimens from Labrador and the Cascade niouulaius. 

 I have been fortunate in securing several specimens, from the U. 

 S. National iluseum and the Academy of Natural Sciences, of Old 

 AVorld martens typical of M. foina, M. maries and 31. zibellina, 

 and am thus enabled to discuss their relationships with those of 

 America. A series of thirty skulls from Kamschatka merit special 

 mention. 



As I now uudeistand their relationships, the North American 

 martens consist of three species and three subspecies, viz., the 

 South Canadian marten, Mustela americana Turton ; the Arctic 

 niarleu, M. a. actuosa Osgood ; the British Columbia marten, M. a. 

 abietinoides (Gray) ; the Labrador marten, M. a. brumalk 

 (Bangs); the Newfoundland marten, M. nb-aia Bangs; the Cas- 

 cade mountain marten, M. caurina ]Merriam, and the Rocky 

 mountain marten, M. c. origenes Rhoads. 



Mustela americana Turton. South Canadian .Marten. 



1802. lMitsUla'\ amcricanus Turton, Liuuxus, Syst. Naturse, Vol. I, 

 p. 60. 



1819. Musli'la vulpina Kafjiiesquc, American Jour. Science, 1819, p. 

 82. (Upper Jlissouri river = J/ americann with white-tipped tail.) 



1820. Mustela leucopus Kuhl, Beitriige Zoolo^ic, p. 74. ("In 

 Canada "=M. americana witli wliile-tippeil feet.) 



1823. Mustela liuro F. Cuvicr, Diction. Sci. Xaturelles. Vol. 29, p. 



256. (Ucstricled types from tlie habitat of the Huron Indians, 



fide Milhert, viz., reiriou cast and south of Georgian bay, west 



peninsula iif Ontario^,!/, americana typicus, pale form ("blond 



clair "). 



Type Localitij. — Turton says his M. americanus " inhabits North 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 445 



America." Uudoiibtedly his material was based ou specimens 

 from eastern Canada or the northeastern United States. He describes 

 a light tawny, white-headed forai, which applies more distinctively 

 to the martens of southeastern Canada and the eastern United 

 States as contrasted with those from farther north or from New 

 Brunswick and Labrador. On this basis and to more intelligently 

 map out the distuibulion of the subspecies already described 

 without overturning names recently pi-oposed, I restrict the type 

 locality of amencana to the region occupied by the small pale mar- 

 tens of southern Canada and the northern United States. The 

 type specimens on which Turtou based his species probably came 

 from Ontario or Quebec through the Hudson Bay Company. 



Faimal Distribution. — The habitat of Mmtela amerieana ameri- 

 carta is restricted to the forested areas enclosed by the following 

 localities: Hudson bay, Northeast territory (of Labrador), 

 Quebec, Nova Scotia, Massachusetts, northern Pennsylvania, south 

 in the mountains to Colorad:), Utah, eastern Oregon and Washmg- 

 ton, eastern British Columljia, Alberta, Saskatchewan and southern 

 Kewaliu, south of latitude •')")°. 



Description of Species. — Smallest and palest of the American 

 martens. Pelage relatively short. Colors most variable of the 

 group, ranging from white-headed, yellow-bodied individuals to 

 blackish -brown ones. Color of throat and breast patch varying 

 from white to pale-orange, sometimes reaching from chin to ster- 

 num and from base of ears to insertion of forelegs, sometimes con- 

 fined to a stripe or scattered spots across lower neck. These remarks 

 in part apply to all our martens. The distinguishing color char- 

 acteristics of typical amerieana may be stated to be the average 

 paleness and yellowness of outer fur and the clear ash of basal 

 under fur, as contrasted with all other races, and in the strongly 

 contrasting colors of the fore parts with the hinder parts. The 

 upper head, ears and neck are generally a pale drab-<gray (Ridg- 

 ivay's Nomenclature of Colors), this often reaching half-way down 

 the back ; the lower back, thighs and rump are tinged with an 

 unnamed shade of color combining pale-orange, rufous and yellow 

 in an indescribable combination noi found in other geographic 

 races. This whole area is sparingly tipped with black. The bases 

 of hairs are pale smoke-gray. The darker parts of fore and hind 

 feet and legs and tail-brush are blackish seal brown. Certain areas 




446 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [^ayj 



within the range of M. americana americana above given furnish 

 martens whose average pelts are so dark as to give tliem a standard 

 market value much above skins from the surrounding country. 

 Such a region is the upper Nipigou territory of Ontario westward 

 toward the Lake of the Woods. The local climatic conditions of 

 this rocky, saturated and densely wooded area are responsible for 

 this. It is too local, however, to warrant a further subdi\'ision. 

 Respecting the cranial characters, upon which I have primarily 

 based my examinations of this perplexing group, I begin by con- 

 sidering Gray's fundamental separation of the New World niarleus 

 from 31. mm-te«, foina and zibellina on the size and shape of the 

 last upper tubercular molar. In americana this is slated by him, 

 and in measure amplified by Goues and Allen, to be different, in 

 its hour-glass shape and greater size of the inner bulb as compared 

 with the outer. In americana this tooth has but sliglit constriction, 

 with resulliug rectangular shape, owing to the relative equality in 

 size of the inner and outer bulbs. A very carefid examination of 

 the largo series of American martens shows that the specific separa- 

 tion from Old \\'orld forms on this basis is fully warranted. Tt is 

 further em ihasized by the character of the second lower true molar, 

 which in all the exotic forms has a strongly cliaracterizcd inner 

 ciLsp, as asserted by Allen. In americana, Allen .says, this is " not 

 found," or " only in a very rudimentary condition." I have found 

 it, however, in a more or le.ss rudimentary condition in all typical 

 americana skulls, except those so very old that it IkuI l)een worn 

 away. In rare instances this cusp is almost as well developed, pro- 

 portionately to the smaller and narrower character of americana 

 molars, as in martes. On this account its diagnostic value is le.ss 

 than that of the last upper nmlar. These remarks apply equally 

 to all marten skulls I have examined taken east and north of the 

 Ga.scade mountains, from Xulato, Alaska, to the coast of Maine. 

 But when skulls from the Cascade mountain region and the Pacific 

 coast are examined an intermediate condition is immediately 

 noticeaiilc. The shape of posterior upper molar corresponds niore 

 clcsely to tliat of the Old World forms, as also .does the flat, 

 rouniled cranium and its broad, zygomatic width as compared with 

 its length. In these combined respects it resembles the European 

 beech marten, M. foirM, more closely than it does the martens of 

 the Rocky mountains and eastern Gauada. Regarding the cranial 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 447 



relations of tlie Asiatic sable, J/. zibeUina, to our West Americau 

 martens, nothing seems to have been published. Brandt, who 

 made a critical monograph on these subjects, seems not to have 

 had any skulls of zlbelJina. Neittier did Baird, C'oues, or Allen. 

 Brandt (Beitr. Kennt. Saugeth. Russl., 1855) finds no differences 

 between the external characters of the Asiatic and West American 

 martens, the "sables" of the " Ivischuaja Tunguska occupying 

 an intermediate position between the dark Asiatic and yellow 

 American sables." 



A fine series of sable skulls from Kamschatka, representing 

 thirty-two specimens of the Old World zibeUina, correspond 

 exactly with the good figure of zibeUina in Blainville's Osteo- 

 f/raphie. Comparing these with American martens we find 

 them larger than the largest skulls from Alaska, Mackenzie and 

 Labrador, six old males averaging 82 mm. in basilar length and 

 53 mm. in zygomatic expansion. In the largest Alaskan example 

 the basilar length is 80 mm. A specimen from Peel's river, IMac- 

 kenzie territory, the largest in my American series, is 82 mm. 

 long, while the largest Kamschatkac skull is 85 mm. long. 

 In both size and proportions, however, these crania of zibeUina are 

 remarkably like actuosa of Alaska and brwnalis of Labrador. 

 But when the dental characters are examined there is a distinct 

 separation between them, l)ased, as above mentioned, on the great 

 size and peculiar asymmetric saddle shape of the upper posterior 

 griuder of zibeUina as contrasted with the rectangular, transversely 

 elongate shape of that tooth in americana. The distinction of 

 relative size and the inner tuberculation of the lower sectorial in 

 these Kamschatkan skulls is also a decided feature as contrasted 

 with their nearest geographic allies in America. Comparing these 

 zibeUbia skulk with three Swedish skulls, typical of marte-s, the 

 close specific relationship between these two is emphasized in everv 

 character examined. On the other hand, foina specimens from 

 Germany are very distinct in cranial features. 



In foina we have a very short, broad and flattened skull, wholly 

 lacking any sagittal ridge on the occipital crest, even in old age. 

 The frontal constriction is relatively uupronouuced. The posterior 

 upper grinder is more rectangular in shape than in the martes 

 group, and owing to the short rostrum the premolar teeth overlap 

 at base instead of being separated by short diastemte. In respect 




448 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEJtY OF [May, 



of the size .lud shape of the craoium, foimt is far more distinct 

 from martes aud zihellina tliau the latter are from auy American 

 form excejjt caurina. It is iuteresliug to note iu this coiinectiou 

 that caurina resembles foina very closely in the small size aud 

 shape of its audital bullse aud the breadth aud flatness of the 

 brain-case, but in respect of the sagittal crest, frontal constriction 

 and character of the teeth, caurina is closer to zibellina. Its 

 homologies connect it far more closely with the Eurasian thau the 

 American type of marteu, and would indicate a closer genesis from 

 the Old World martens than from those of the New World. As 

 it does not appear to intergrade with the latter, I am induced to 

 consider it au isolated member of the martes-zibelUna group. This 

 peculiarity is not without precedent in the Asiatic character of other 

 animals found in the ha1)ital of caurina. 



Meaiiwements. — Average of sis adult males from Elaine, Penu- 

 sylvania aud the Adirondacks: Total length, 57.5 mm.; tail 

 vertebrae, 175 nnn. ; hind foot, ^2 mm. Skulls ditto: Basilar 

 length (from inferior lip of foramen maguuui to posterior base of 

 upper median i.nci.«ors), 70.5 mm.; postorbital constriction, 

 16.0 nun. ; zygomatic expansion, 44 mm. 



MuBtela amerioana brumalis (Bangs). Labrador Marten. 



1893. Mustela brumalis Bangs, American Natunilist, Vol. 32, p. oOJ. 



Type Locality. — Okak, Labrador. 



Faunal Didribuiion. — Humid coast region of northeastern 

 Labrador, Ungava bay to Straits of Belle Isle. lutergrading 

 westwardly into actuosa, southwardly iuto americana. 



Description of Species. — Mr. Bangs' description of this race was 

 ba.«ed on three skulls, presumably of males, no skins being obtained. 

 Since then he has obtained skins, two of which, au adult male and 

 female, have been sent to me for examination. The character of 

 the skull of brumalis as compared witli that of americana from 

 Maine is certainly conspicuous for greater size, i)ut the relative 

 proportions when compared with specimens from Maine of same age 

 and sex are not so marked as described by Bangs. , I note that the 

 .<kul1s of brnmalU are surprisingly identical in size and i)ropnrtious 

 with those of actuosa from the Mackenzie riwr district au<l Alaska, 

 as shown by the fine series loaned by the U. S. National Mu-seuni. 

 This is referred to liy Osgood In his description of aduosa, but the 




1902.] SATDEAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 449 



skull of brumaUs figured by him is smaller than the largest speci- 

 men I have, so that the differences Osgood seeks to draw between 

 the two in this regard are much less than would appear. The 

 relative size of the audital bullaa in aduusa and brumalis, where 

 skulls of same size are compared, is,so nearly the same as to make 

 them of no diagnostic value, and the heaviness of dentition falls 

 imder the same restrictions. Taking these two races of americana 

 and contrasting them therewith, the Pennsylvania and Maine speci- 

 mens show an extreme diminution of size, being about 10 mm. 

 shorter and relatively somewhat narrower than the northern races ; 

 but we are unable to make these differences in size, great as they 

 appear, of specific value, for the martens from the north shore of 

 Lake Superior and from Tobique and Trousers lake, Isew Bruns- 

 wick, are plainly intermediate and connectant in cranial characters, 

 measuring only 5 to 6 mm. shorter than the largest skulls of aetuosa 

 and brumalis. No doubt skulls from western Labrador and Kee- 

 watin would complete the chain of gradation thus indicated. It 

 may be remarked that the development of sagittal crest in aetuosa 

 and brumalis, and the posterior angularity and expansion of their 

 zygomre, are more or less in excess of any specimens of the southern 

 animal ; but an examination of the cuspidation, size and outline of 

 the teeth in all the forms except caurina shows that so-called differ- 

 ences are confined to individual variation, as proved bv the 

 unusually large series of crania now in hand. In color, brumalU is 

 separable from any other eastern interior form on account of its 

 dark shades. In the male specimen from Okak there is a close re- 

 .semblance to the specimen from Sullivan county, Penna. , both in tint 

 and pattern of coloration, the difference consisting almost solelv in 

 the greater length of the coarser long hairs of the over fur. These 

 are also blacker and the median (.subapical) shade of upper back, 

 sides and rump is less fulvous. The color of the under fur is a 

 shade darker ash than that of the Pennsylvania specimens. In the 

 female Okak specimen the whole body colors are much darker than 

 in the male, being a blackish chocolate, and the fulvous cast of 

 under fur seen in the male is replaced by a cinnamon or bistre 

 shade in the female. In both, the head is lighter than the body. 

 As compared -with aetuosa the Labrador form is nnicli darker, 

 Mackenzie river aetuosa being characterized from all others bv the 

 contrast of their light- hued sides and heads with the darkly con- 

 29 




450 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [^lay, 



trasted brown-black of the median dorsal area. Au average of 

 the aduotta series would class as " pale " iu the furrier's uomeucla- 

 ture, while hrimialis would class as " dark." On the other hand, 

 aduosa is of a very different sort of " pale" from typical ameri- 

 cana, such as we find in New Brunswick and Elaine. These latter 

 are termed ' ' canaries ' ' by the furriers and are distinguished from 

 the adiwsa type by the pale-orange, buffy or ochraceous suffusion 

 of back and sides, some of them assuming a pecidiar golden hue. 

 All these pale color conditions of the southern animal, more on 

 account of tint than paleness, detract materially from their com- 

 mercial value as compared with those pale skins whii-h are typical 

 of the interior Arctic martens. 



Measuremeiits of bnancdh. — Total length of c?, 680 mm. ; tail 

 vertebrie, 195 mm. ; hind foot, 115 mm. : of ?, 585, 179, 91 mm. : 

 both specimens from Lance Au Loup. Skull measui-ements of four 

 adult males average: Basilar length, 79 mui. ; interorbital constric- 

 tion, 16 mm. ; zygomatic expansion, 52 mm. 

 Mustela americana aotuosa Osgood. Arctic or Alaska Marten. 



1900. Mustela americana actuosa Osgood, North American Fauna, 

 No. 19, p. 43. 



Type Locality. — Fort Yukon, Alaska. 



Faunal Distribution. — British America, north of latitude 55° to 

 Barren Grounds; east to western Laltrador jieninsula (Northeast 

 Territory) ; west to Coast Ranges of British Columbia aud -Vlaska; 

 south iu Rocky mountains almost to northern boundary of the 

 United States. 



Description of Species. — Osgood, the describer of this race, has 

 correctly characterized it iu his original description and figure as 

 compared with americana typicus, but, as previously stated, he has 

 emphasized too strongly the distinctions between it and brtimaUs, as 

 now evidenced by the additional skulls of brumalis secured liy Mr. 

 Bangs. 



Osgood's description of color charactei's of type may be quoted 

 in part as follows : ' ' Posterior half of upper parts pale ochraceous- 

 buff, .shoulders and anterior ])art of upper parts gradually be- 

 coming grayish ; entire ujjper parls excejjt head overlaid with 

 coarse brown hairs; head, including cheeks and lliroat, pale 

 grayish-white, lightly mi.xed with brown, especially on nose and 

 chin ; inside aud edges of ears whitish ; outside and bases of ears 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 451 



browu. Under parts similar to upper parts, but darker and more 

 brownish ou chest." This descriptiou is taken from a lighter indi- 

 vidual with more ochraceous cast than the average. Several of the 

 Peel's river .specimens have scarcely any ochraceous cast, but rather 

 a drab-brown tinge ; but even in these the grayness and clearnes.s of 

 the brown from the "canary" shade of typical southeru ameri- 

 cana is very noticeable. For a fuller disctissiou of these differences 

 see under J/, amerieana bmmalis above, where the cranial charac- 

 tei-s of both forms are also discussed at leugth. Also, see remarks 

 under M. amerieana typ'mus. 



Measurements. — Aveinge of tight selected old adults, males, 

 measured in flesh : Total length, 671 mm. ; tail verlebrre, 204 mm.'; 

 hind-foot, 109 mm.; ear height, 40 mm. Skull measurements 

 (average of six adult males) : Basilar length, 80 mm. ; interorbital 

 constriction, 16 mm.; zygomatic expansion, .51 mm. In the type 

 of aciuosa the occipito-nasal leugth is given by Osgooci as 85 mm., 

 and the zygomatic expansion 55 mm. This is larger than auv of 

 the rest of the large series belonging to the U. S. National Museum. 



Mustela amerieana abietinoides (Gray). British Columbia Marten. 



1865. IMarles amerieana] var. 1, abietinoides Gray, Proc. Zool Soc 

 J-jOnclou, p. 106. '* 



Tupe Loeality.—" Rocky Mountains ( Drummoud and Lord)," 

 Gray. As Gray's abietinoides thus included two distinct species, 

 one of which was undoubtedly caurina (collected by Lord), I have 

 now restricted it to the Rocky mountain specimens taken by Drum- 

 mou.l. Drummond's itinerary, as given by Richardson" {Fauna 

 Boreali Amerieana, Vol. I, p. xvi), shows that he did not collect 

 specuneus west of the Selkirk Range, hence not within the rau-e 

 of caurina. The description of abietinoides by Gray evideuth- 

 refers to dark specimens characteristic of the humid environment of 

 the Selkirks, into which Drummond says he penetrated just before 

 his i-ecall home. The marten of the main arid chain of the 

 Rockies is evidently a lighter colored animal. On these considera- 

 tions I have seen fit to define the restricted type locality of abieti- 

 noides to the edge of the humid western slope of the Rocky moun- 

 tains, somewhere between Kicking Horse pass and the Columbia 

 nver. It is siguificaut that this is also the eastern limit of the 

 ''Abies" mertensiana or Western hemlock, after which Gray 

 named his so-called "variety" abietenoides, prohMv ou account 




452 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



of notes made by Drummoud or Lord as; to tbe habitat of the type 

 specitaens of this marten. 



Faunal Disirihidlon. — Humid interior region of British Cohim- 

 bia, peculiar to the Selkirk and Gold Ranges. 



Description of Species. — Gray's description reads: "Black- 

 brown; ears pale, head grizzled with white hail's, more or less gray; 

 throat yellow or yellow-spotted ; throat spot large or broken up into 

 small spots ; tbe head sometimes witli only a tavr gi'ay hairs, and 

 the tliroat with only a few distinct small spots." A specimen sent 

 to me from Vernon, British Columbia, by W. C. Pound, a taxi- 

 dermist with whom I became acquainted while in that place in 

 1892, is of especial interest in this connection. It was taken 

 November 22, 1892, and no doubt was brought to Mr. Pound b_v 

 an Indian traj^per whom he dealt with, living in the Gold Range 

 above Vernon. Such, at least, was the source of his supplies of 

 larger game and furs during my residence there. The skull and 

 skin of this specimen indicate it to be an adult, but not very aged, 

 female. The naso-premaxillary sutures are not ■\\holly obliterated, 

 as in over-aged specimens, but the occipital crest is that of a fully 

 matured marten, perhaps three or four years old. The color of this 

 specimen answers exactly Gray's description of " black-brown." 

 In this respect it is instantly distinguished from all other of the 

 specimens of marten I have before me, both by the quality and depth 

 as well as the uniformity of its coloration. In terms of Bidgivay's 

 Nomenclature of Colors, this specimen is seal-brown throughout, 

 both above and below, with exception of the sides of the liead, the 

 interior of ears and a small irregidar throat patch. The shade of 

 tins seal-brown is blackest on tail, feet, legs and middle back. On 

 sides, under parts, neck and head it is more of a vandykc-brown, 

 but nowhere liuffy, ochraceous or orange, as in all other malleus I 

 have examined.' A cheek patch between ear and eye and the 

 insides ami margins of ears are grayish-drab, lint the rest of head 

 above and below is not noticeably paler than neck as in all others 

 of the americana group found ea.st of the Rocky mountains. Scat- 

 tered white hairs arc noticeable among the dark bmly pelage above 

 and below, being more numerous about head, neck and breast. 

 Tlie narrow, irregular (hroat patch reaches from angle of lower jaw 



' The Newfoundland species, J/, atrata, which I have not seen, is prob- 

 nlily another exception. 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 45.3 



to near base of neck, being about two inches long and three- 

 quarters of an inch broad in the widest part Its color is ochrace- 

 ous-buff. Tlie fullness, density and length of pelage is noticeable, 

 and the slight contrast in color of the basal portion of the fur with 

 that of the apical half is unique, so far as I have examined speci- 

 mens. In even the darkest Labrador skins of bmmalis, the triple- 

 zoned color pattern typical of marten fur is quite as marked as in 

 lighter-hued races ; but, in abietinoides, as illastrated by this Gold 

 Range specimen, the subapical or intermediate color zone of the 

 individual hairs is absent and their dark apices merge insensibly 

 into the more ashy-brown of their bases. Taken as a" sample, this 

 skin would seem to me to indicate that the Selkirk mountain animal 

 furnishes one of the most desirable marten pelts, from the furrier's 

 standpoint, that can be found in Jforth America. 



The skull of this specimen, as well as that of another, sexed 

 female, from the same locality, show, in comparison with femfile 

 skulls of same age from the .Mackenzie river regions, that abieli- 

 noides is not only specifically identical with M. a. aetuosa, but Uiat 

 it is only slightly smaller in size, being intermediate in the latter 

 feature between M. americana of Lake Sujierior and Arctic exam- 

 ples of aduosa. As regards coloration, abietinoides is farther 

 removed from actuom than any other race of the americana group. 

 It is allied most closely, as regards color pattern, with its geo- 

 graphic ally, origenes of the main Rocky mountain chain. The 

 teeth, audital bullae and the proportions and configuration of skull 

 in abietinoides are precisely as in the americana, as contrasted with 

 the caurina type of cranium. 



Prof. Oldfield Thomas, who examined for me the Drummond 

 and Lord specimens of Mustela in the Briii.-h :Museum which formed 

 the basis of Gray's abietinoides, agrees with me that the Drummond 

 specimens should be considered the types in a determination as to the 

 status of this name. As the use by Gray of one or more speci- 

 mens, probably taken by Lord in the habitat of caurina, further 

 necessitates this division, the natural course, as already somewhat 

 explained under remarks on " type locality," has been to retain 

 caurina for these and restrict abietinoides to the very di.stinct race 

 of a??iencana iuhabiliug the hemlock and cedar (Tsuga et Thuja) 

 forests of the western offshoots of the British Columbia Rockies. 

 Prof. Thomas states that a Drunnnond .specimen in the British 




454 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



Museum is less dark than some of the Lord specimens. Unless the 

 exact locality were given, it is not improbable that some of Diura- 

 mond's specimens (if there were many) iiiay have come from locali- 

 ties iu the eastern Rockies, ^vhere that naturalist did most of his 

 colled iug. In such a case the question would seem to be compli- 

 cated Ijy specimens of origenes, which is almost undoubtedly the 

 race found on the headwaters of the Red Deer river in the Rurcell 

 Range, where Drunniioud wintered. But the gist of the matter> 

 shorn of these complications, is Gray's desire to designate by name 

 a dark American marten found in the Rocky mountains by 

 Drummoud. As no special type from a serie.* of British Columbia 

 specimens was designated by Gray, aud as a special type or race 

 agreeing with his description has beeu foimd to live in the habitat 

 designated, it is within our province here to give it fixity by 

 restriction and elimination, rather thau ignore or reject it as a 

 nomeuclatural enigma. It may be added that au examination of 

 J. K. Lord's itinerary shows that it is very unlikely he secured any 

 specimens from the habitat of abietinoides as I have restricted it. 

 His operations with the Boimdary Commission in the Rocky moun- 

 tains lay entirely south of the Selkirk and Gold Ranges. 



Measurements. — Made by collector from specimen No. 633, Coll. 

 of S. N. Rhoads, ?, Gold Range, near Vernon, B. C, by W. C. 

 Pound; taken November 22, 1892: Total length, 584 mm.; tail 

 verlebrre, 178 mm. ; hind foot (dry measurement), 87 mm. 

 Skull (of same specimen): Basilar length, 70 mm.; zygomatic 

 expansion, 43 mm.; postorbital constriction of fi'ontals, 17 mm. 

 jMeasurcmeuts of the male, judging by analogy of the sexual differ- 

 ences in other races, would nearly equal those given for actuosa and 

 brumali.8. 



Mustela atrata Bangs. Nen foundland Marteu. 



1897. iluatela atrata Bangs, American Naturalist, Vol. 31, p. 1C2. 



Type Locality. — Bay St. George, Newfoundland. 



Faunal Diitrihulion. — Newfoundland. 



Description of Species. — I have seen no .«j>ecimens of this form, 

 which seems nearly related iu size aud color, etc., to the dark mar- 

 tens of the northern Rocky mountains. As it is confined to the 

 island, it is cousidorod by ^[r. Bangs, its dcscriber, as a distinct 

 species, on gcograi>liic rather thau anatomical grounds. Its aHini- 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 455 



ties with americana, however, judging by the original descrip- 

 tion, are cranially much closer than to those of brumalis, actuosa, 

 etc. 



In such a case it would seem preferable to make exception to the 

 arbitrary ruling of specific recognition (as contrasted with racial 

 separation), based primarily on geographic isolation. The sub- 

 specific differences of atrata, from the standpoint of coloration alone, 

 appear to merit its separability from typical americana. 



The color of atrata is said by Bangs to be " Deep chocolate, 

 becoming black on back, head, arms, legs, rump and tail ; a few 

 white hairs scattered along back ; chest and under side of ueck 

 irregularly blotched with orange ; a median line of orange on belly ; 

 ears black, narrowly bordered all round with dull white." This 

 indicates a much blacker and more orange-spotted animal than any 

 other marten known to me except a specimen from near Vernon, 

 British Columbia, in the interior region west of the Selkirk Range. 

 In this last specimen, howerer, the orange spot is small, and does 

 not extend below the base of neck. Bangs says further : ' ' Skull 

 about the size of or larger than that of M. americana; rostrum 

 narrow, audital bulke much larger and deeper than in M. amtn- 

 cana . . . . ; dentition rather weaker throughout, with greater 

 spaces between premolar teeth than that of M. americana. Unfor- 

 tunately, the skulls as well as the type skins were from females. 

 But as other skulls, probably from males, were examined by him, it 

 is likely his diagnosis includes them, showing the close affinity of 

 atrata to typical americana from New Brunswick. 



Measurements. — Fide Bangs from two females, types : Average 

 total length, 550 mm. ; tail vertebrae, 185 mm. ; hind foot, 

 88 mm. ; ear from notch, 42 mm. Skull of type : Basilar length, 

 69.2; zygomatic expansion, 42 mm. 



Uustela oaurina Merriam. Pacific Marten. 



1890. Mustela caurina Merriam, North American Fauna, No. 4, p. 27. 

 1865. Maries americana, var. 1, abietinoides Gray (in part ; referring 

 to J. K. Lord's specimens), Proc. Zool. Soc. Lend., p. 106. 



Type Locality. — Near Gray's Harbor, Chehalis county, Wash- 

 ington. 



Bannal Distribution. — Humid coast and Cascade moimlain 

 region of western Uuited States, British Columbia and probably 

 southern Alaska, from northern California northward, east to sum- 




456 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF ['Slay, 



mit of Cascade Range. Geographic connection with M. c. origenes 

 problematic. 



Description of Species. — The Cascade mountain marten, as illus- 

 trated by a very large series of skulls in my collection from Lake 

 Kichelos, Kittitas count}-, Wasliiuglon, taken at elevations of 

 8,000 to 10,000 feel, shows cranial characters so different from 

 any of the other American martens as to suggest a distinct species. 

 It is significant, also, to note that their departure from the Mustela 

 amerkana type is in the direction of the Old World species, as 

 originally observed by Brandt and IMerriam and confirmed by the 

 exceptional series in my hands. 



As compared with skulls of M. a. actuosa from Mackenzie, B. 

 A., and M. americana from north of Lake Superior (with the 

 latter of which they correspond almost exactly in length), the 

 following differences are prominently noticeable : The skull of 

 caurina viewed from above is greatly broadened and flattened; the 

 zygomatic breadth in an old male from Lake Kichelos is to the 

 basilar length as 52 to 74; in a male skull of similar age and 

 sagittal development from Lake Superior these proportions are as 

 47 to 74, the skulls in each case being the same length. In ihe 

 largest skull from the Mackenzie river the zygomatic breadtli only 

 exceeds that of (he largest AVashington specimen hy 1 millimeter, 

 but its basilar length exceeds the latter by (J mm. In conformity 

 to this relative shortening and widening, caurina has a markedly 

 wide brain-case and interorbital region, the postorbital processes 

 being widely and bluntly developed and the frontals abiiiptly con- 

 stricted behind them, so that while this constriction is as narrow a.s 

 in actuosa, the greatest supraorbital width is 1 mm. greater than in 

 the largest actuosa skull. The lowness or flatness of the cranium is 

 also marked. In the skulls already alluded to, caurina has a maxi- 

 mum height from the audital bulla; to crest of occiput of 2!( mm., 

 while actuosa is .32 mm. high. Viewed from below, the audital 

 bulliB of caurina are instantly seen to be very small a.s compared 

 with americana of same sized skull. They are also of a different 

 shape, being flat, shortened and squared anteriorly, -forming a sort 

 of retangular outline, whereas americana and actuosa are more 

 triangular, tumid and elongate. The last ujijier molar presents 

 differ<>nces from all americana forms quite as radical and strangelp' 

 similar to those claimed by authors as warranting the specific sep- 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHIEADELPHIA. 457 



aratiou of ihe americanu group from the Old A^'orl(l martens. lu 

 all the adult reijreseufalives of caurina I have examined, this tooth 

 is analogous in character to that of specimens labeled marte-s and 

 foina in the collection of the Academy of Xalural Sciences, and also 

 to Blainville's superb figure of zihelUna in Plate 7 of the Osteo- 

 fjraphie. The character alhided to is the relatively large size of 

 this molar and the wide expansion of its inner bulb or saddle as 

 contrasted with the exterior section of the same, giving the tooth a 

 rounded, emarginate, triangular sliape as contrasted with the 

 narrow, rectangular latei-al elongation characteristic of the ameri- 

 cana series. In the latter the ratio of greatest breadth to length of 

 tooth is as 5 to 8, in caurina it is as 7 to 9. In a specimen labeled 

 martes from Europe this ratio is 7^ to 9, the numbei-s in all three 

 cases being actual millimeter dimensions of the teeth. Another 

 character in this tooth common to caurina, zibellina and martes is 

 the tendency to a double median tuberculation of the inner bulb, 

 instead of the single elongate tubercle always found in americana 

 typicns and its races. This is clearly resultant from the greater 

 width of the inner bulb in caurina and its Old WoiM allies, thus 

 allowing room for subdivision of the tubercle. A further analogy 

 between caurina and the Eurasian, as contrasted with the American 

 type of dentition, is seen in the large lower sectorial. In the 

 former this tootli is much wider and heavier than in the americana 

 group and the inner median tubercle is strongly developed. In 

 americana it is generally rudimentary, but not always so. 



Some of these characters are pointed out by Dr. Merriam in his 

 original description of caurina, but his statement that the inner 

 cusp of the lower sectorial is wanting in male caurina is disproved 

 by my large seri&s. The skulls of Merriam' s types were not fully 

 adult, however. 



In color, caurina is a richer brown than any of the americana 

 group, more inclining to cinnamon in upper body color. This 

 shade is more uniform throughout the entire length of upper parts 

 to head, which is not so distinctly lighter in color as in all other 

 average East American martens. The head Is an almost uniform 

 shade of pale Mars-brown, not lightening on cheeks and ears as in 

 eastern americana types. A marked difference peculiar to caurina 

 is found in the extensive area and rich tint of the dark orange-bufl 

 throat and breast patches. This area begins at the angles of the 




458 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



jaw, reaches up along sides of ueck to aud including inner 

 base of forelegs, and stretches by spotted interruptions almost to 

 vent, the main body of color terminating on lower breast. The 

 rich coloring and great size of this pattern seem constant in a 

 series of Cascade mountain skins Isefore me. A tendency to scat- 

 tered long silvery hairs through the upper pelage is noticeable as 

 contrasted with americana. This feature is also in the direction of 

 zibelliiia. 



In external character the relative length of the tail of caurina 

 is greater than in any other form of American marten except 

 orir/enes. This in a comparison made with my series of Lake 

 Kichelos skins, which were measured in the flesh by collector, Mr. 

 Allan Rupert. It appears likely, however, that his measurements 

 included jjart of the brusli of tail, as the measurement of the dry 

 specimens now seems to indicate. Allowing for this, liowever, the 

 caurina specimens indicate a long-tailed marten, as tlie average 

 below given of six old males indicates. See further discussion of 

 cranial characters under M. americana typicus. 



McasuremenU. — Total length, fiT/) mm. ; tail, 270 nun. ; hind- 

 foot, 90 mm. Deducting from this .50 mm., tlie length of the body 

 of tail pencil, leaves the total length 625 mm., and the tail vertebrse 

 220 mm., which is nuich greater relatively and absolutely tlian in 

 other American martens whose size exceeds caurina. The length of 

 the body, skull and hind foot are nearly identical with the medium- 

 sized martens of southern Canada. It is to be regretted that Dr. 

 Merriam gave no body measurements of his types of caurina. 

 Skull measurements (average of six old males) : Basilar length, 

 74 mm.; zygomatic expansion, 51; inlerorbital cons^trictioii, 15. 

 For relative dimensions of teeth, see above under description of 

 species. 



MuBtela caurina origenes- subsp. nov. Kocky Mouataiii Marten. 



Type, No. 112,170, young adult ?, collection of U. S. National 

 Museum, from " Marviue Mountain " (Garfield county ?), Colo. 

 Collected by Ernest T. Seton (E. SetouThomp.son), September 

 16, 1901. 



Faunal Diitribution. — Southern Rocky mountain region; higher 

 ranges of New ^lexico (?) northward; probably replaced in tlie 



' From the Greek, meaning "a mountain race." 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 459 



Canada Rockies by a race of americana. Geographic coniiectiou 

 with caufina problematical. 



Description of Subsj^ecies. — Strikingly different from all other 

 American martens except caurina in the absence of the light- 

 colored cheek patches. Head relatively darker, as compared \vith 

 upper body colors, than in caurina; ears lacking a white border or 

 inner lining cf white hairs. Gular and pectoral patch extensive, 

 wide, connected by interrupted streaks along median abdominal line 

 with well-defined narrow jire -ventral area of similar color. Color of 

 gular jiatch a peculiar buffy-orange, as iu caurina, lightening some- 

 what at armpits. Entire upper parts, including head, ears, legs 

 and sides, and lightening somewhat on belly, " wood-brown," the 

 longer, darker hairs of middle back and rump being " broccoli- 

 brown," and the brush of tail and soles of feet " clove-brown." 

 Ears edged with ochraceous-buff. Tail relatively long, as in 

 caurina. The coucolor ajjpearance of origenes viewed from above 

 is even more striking than in caurina, the whole of head, excepting 

 the ear-margins, being quite as dark as the neck and shoulders and 

 these not uoticeablv darker than the back. The under parts show 

 precisely the same color and pattern characters which distinguish 

 cavrina from americana. Indeed, it was these, together with the 

 characters of the skull, which upset my previous ideas (based on 

 geographic reasons) that origenes was a race of americana. For- 

 tunately there are five skins and three skulls of Colorado martens 

 at hand, and' these all show with remarkable uniformity the con- 

 stancy of the characters of type as above given. It is to be 

 regretted that no skin with skull of an adult male is available. 

 An adult male skin, topotype, also collected by Mr. Seton the last 

 of August, and a female collected on the Great Divide in Boulder 

 county, fit the above description exactly. The skull of two 

 females, one from Boulder county, the other the type, are not 

 enough matured to give the maximum measurements, but the skull 

 of an old adult female from North Park fnrnishes these, showing 

 origenes to be of the same size and proportions as caurina of the 

 same sex. Coming to an examination of the teeth our surmises, 

 based on external characters, are so completely verified that any 

 zoogeographic preconceptions we maj^ have had as to affinity of 

 origenes with americana ire sw'ept aw^ay. The peculiar saddle- 

 shaped upper posterior grinder of origenes, with its widely flaring 




■160 PROCEEDOGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [ilaV, 



iuner flaoge, aud the relatively small, flalteued uud reetaugular 

 aiidital bullae declare its affinities to be wiili caurina aud not with 

 americana. It is a pale race of cmirina, seemingly out of place iu 

 its zoogeographic status, and presenting a puzzliug thought as to 

 the relationships of the animal liviug on the main chain of the 

 Rockies in British Columbia, which our present knowledge of 

 abietinoides certainly indicates should be an ally of americana. 

 Should ihe marten of the uortheru arid Rockies prave to be au 

 americaiin form, as we would naturally predict, at what poiul then 

 shall we look for the geographic gap which separates it from 

 origenes and where the bridge which couuects origenes with its 

 kinsman caurina of the Pacific slope ? These are problems for the 

 " next reviewer." 



3Ieasureinents of Type. — ? (recorded by collector): Total 

 length, 612 mm. ; tail vertebrie, 210 mm. ; hind foot, 76 mm. 

 ISIeasurements of an adult male skin, lojiotype, collected by Setou 

 (from dry specimen): Total length, 676 mm.; tail, 2o0 nnu. ; 

 hind fool, 85 mm. Skull (of ? type) : Basilar length, 65 mm. ; 

 zygomatic expansion, 40 mm. ^[easurements of an old adult ? skull 

 from North Park, Xo. 13,985, Coll. Amer. ]*Ius. Xat. Hist., N. 

 Y. : Basilar length, 65 nun. ; zygomatic expansion, 43 mm. ; post- 

 orbital constriction of frontals, 14 nun. 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 461 



two fungous diseases of the white cedar. 



by john w. harshbeeger, ph.d. 



Prefatory Remarks. 



The white cedar is a stately tree .seventy to eighty feet iu height, 

 and one to four feet in diameter. It lives in the cold sphagnum 

 swamps of the Atlantic and Gulf coast plains, where frequently 

 the bases of the tree are flooded with water. In New Jersey, and 

 in the North generally, it forms an almost pure growth. It is 

 associated in the South with the bald cypress, Taxodium. Ex- 

 tending from southern Maine along the coast to northern Florida 

 and then westward to the Pearl river in Mississippi, it never is 

 met with far inland, being confined almost entirely' to the coastal 

 plains. ■ 



The tree is not subject to any very serious di.sease. It is remark- 

 ably exempt from both insect and fungal enemies, and conse- 

 quently it should be looked uj^on as a jn-omising tree for future 

 sj'Stematic forestry in the eastern United States. It gives value to 

 lands that without it would be useless. Sydow^ gives nineteen 

 species of fungi living on Cupresms thyoides. To this number one 

 additional fungus should be added, viz., Gymnosporangium Ellisii 

 Berk. Of these, ten species are found growing on the leaves, 

 causing no material injury to them, as the fungi are iisually found 

 on dead leaves. Five fungi are confined to the branches, one is 

 found on the trunk, two grow oh the bark, two are found on the 

 wood and one fungus, Gymnosporangium biseptatum, occurs on 

 both leaves and branches. The majority of these fungi are sapro- 

 Ijhytes living on the dead parts of the white cedar. Only two 

 fungi may be called disease-producing, viz., Gymnosporangium 

 biseptatum YXWa omA Gymnosporangium Ellisii (Berk.) Fallow. 



The latter species, Gymnospiorangium Ellisii, was first described by 



' Sydow, Index Universalis ct Locupletissimus Nominum Plantarum 

 Hospitium Specicrximque Omnium Futigorum, 1898, p. 375. 




462 PKOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [^^''.V) 



Berkeley' as Podisoma Ellisii. Farlow' tiausfened tlie species to 

 the genus Gymnosporangium, and gave somewhat in detail the ex- 

 ternal appearance of the witches' brooms caused by the growth of 

 the fuugiLs. It causes a fasciation of the smaller branches of the 

 white cedar, Avhich become more or less fan-shaped brooms. The 

 external portion of the fungus is smaller and less gelatinous than 

 in any other species of the genus. Sargent, in the Silca of Xorth 

 America, enumerates in a footnote (X, p. 100) the more important 

 fungi that live on the true cedars, mentiouiug GyiiDiospomngium 

 Ellisii (Berk. ) Farlow and the following parasitic plant, G. bisep- 

 tatum Ellis, as of most importance from a pathological standpoint. 



Historical. 

 The fungus Gymiiosj)Ofangium biseptatiim was first described by 

 Ellis' in the following words : ' ' On branches of white cedar. 

 Appearing in April, bureting through the epidermis iu little 

 reddish chestnut- colored velvet-like patches which, about the middle 

 of May, pass into the tremelloid state, swelling out into gelatinous 

 masses the size of large peas; not so distinctly foliaceous as in 

 G. juniperi. Spores long jjedicellate, mostly biseptate." . Ellis, 

 also in this place, referred to the appearance of the swellings pro- 

 duced by the fuuga-. Fai'low^ studied and described the fungus iu 

 a more thorough manner, but lib account has largely to do with 

 the botanical characters of the plant, the external appearance of 

 the swellings and the variation of the spores. He referred in a 

 casual manner to the fact that " the mycelium is found principally 

 in the region of ihe cambium." Sorauer" described somewhat 

 carefully in detail the life-history of the Gymnosporaugia and their 

 corresponding Rojstelia. As the basis of his remarks, he took 

 Gymiiuiqyorangium fw^cuiii and Kvcdelia cancdlaia, desciibed the 

 botanical eha-'aclers of both the teleutosporic stage and the a-cidio- 

 sporic stage, and referred briefly to the other common si>ecies of the 

 genus, viz. , Gymnosporangium clavariajorme, G. conicum, G. mac- 

 ropiis, G. biieptatum, G. tremelloides, G. Elli<ii. AViiridc' inves- 



» Berkeley. Grecillea, III, p. 56. 



' Faklow, Bulletin Busscy Inslitiite, If, p. 220 : Tlie (.iymuosiioruugia 

 or Cedar Appli's of the United States, 1880. 



'Elms, BulUtia Tcirey Botanical Club, 1874, V, p. 40. 



' Farlow, The Gvniuusporaiigia, etc., )ip. 19-2 t. 



"iJORAUER, I'jhiHzeiilaituUititen, ISS'i, II, j.p. 23J-230, laf. X. 



' WuRSLE, Aaatomische riilersuchung der durcli Gyuwlo^porangien• 

 Arten liervorgerufenen Mifsbilduiigeii. " luauirural Dissertation." Bot- 

 anisehes Centralblatt, 1894, LX, pp. 280-233. 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 463 



tigated more particularly the pathological symptoms produced in 

 the host plants by the European species of GymnosjwraiKjlum, 

 viz., 0. juniperiimm, G. clavarmforme, G. sabince, and in a gen- 

 eral waj', with imperfect material at his disposal, the pathology 

 of the American species of Gymnosporangiuin, viz., G. Ellisii, G. 

 biseptatum, G. clavipes, G. macropus. He investigated the changes 

 produced in the bast, the cortex and the wood of Juniperm nana 

 and J. communis by Gymnosporangium junipierhmm (^conicum); of 

 J. eommunis by G. clavarueforme ; of J. sab hut by G. sabince. 

 He investigated in a most general manner the disease conditions 

 induced by the American species of this genus of fungi. Hartig* 

 described the botanical characters of the following species of Gipn- 

 nosporancjium : G. contemn {juniperimim), G. elavariiejorme, G. 

 sabince {fusmm), G. tremelloldes. Frank" described in a general 

 way the botany and pathology of Gymnosporanriium fusmm, 

 G. confusum, G. elavariwforme, G. conicum, G. Ellisii, G. maero- 

 ptis, G. biseptatum, G. clavipes, G. globosum, G. nidus-avis, 

 G. Cunninrjhamianum. Plowright'" obtained some unexpected 

 results by cultures made with the teleutospores and secidiospores of 

 the three European species of Gymnosporangia, viz., G. clavarice- 

 forme, G. conicum, G. Juscum, enlarging materially the list of 

 plants upon which the Rosstelia of these plants are found. Thax- 

 ter, " by numerous culture experiments, succeeded in most cases in 

 working out the life-histories of the American species of the genus 

 Gymnosporangium, by connecting the recidial stage on rosaceous 

 plants with the teleutosporic stage on various coniferous trees. Sau- 

 ford'' studied the structure of the twigs of the red cedar with refer- 

 ence to the formation of the cedar apple. He made a detailed 

 microscopic study of the cedar apple swelling, the spores and the 

 spore-bearing filaments. A brief mention of these articles is 

 sufficient to draw attention to the fact that veiy little work has 

 been ilone on the pathological conditions produced by the American 

 species of Gymnosp>orangi%mi. 



* Hartig, The Diseases of Trees (English translation), 1894, p. 157. 



' Frank, Die Pilzparasitaren Erankheileii der Pflanzen, 1890, II, pp. 

 17(5-184. 



'"Plowright. British Heterrecious Uredines, Jourii. Linn. Soc. Bot., 

 1888. XXiy, p. 93. 



" TiiAXTER, Bot. Gaz., 1889, XIV, ]). 163 ; Conn. State Expcr. Stat. 

 Report, 1891, p. 161. 



i'Sanford, Annals of Botany, 1887, I, p. 363. 




464 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [^lay, 



The attention of the writer was drawn to the swellings a year or 

 two ago, while botanizing in the coastal plain of New Jersey. 

 Specimens of the swellings caused by the two fungi were collected 

 in a cedar swamp at Island Heights Junction, N. J. Bolh the 

 fanlike growth of the yoimger branches and the larger knotty 

 growths on the older branches and the trunk of the trees were met 

 with in this cedar swamp. The large knob-like swellings, a foot or 

 more in diameter, girdling the trunk of large trees, were seen in a 

 cedar swamp at Newfield, N. J. 



Methods. 



Sections of the swellings caused by Gymiiosporangmm biaeptatum 

 were made bj' means of a plane. The smaller sections were 

 mounted in the u.«aal way on slides, and the larger sections were 

 mounted on window glass with thinner pieces of white glass as 

 covers, and these preparations were then placed over a steam radia- 

 tor until the balsam was perfectly dry and hard. The covers were 

 kept in place during the drying by spring-clip clothes pins, which 

 suited the purpose admirably. Bismarck-brown, aniline-green and 

 an admixture of acid-fuchsin and methyl-green were used with 

 satisfactory results in the demarcation of the tissues. 



Appeaeaxce of the Swellings. 



The swellings i)roduced by Gymno?pora)tgium biseptatum Ellis are 

 quite characteristic. The disease may appear on trees which are 

 fi-om five to six feet high, with stem about an inch in diameter. 

 In these young trees the swelling surrounds the whole stem, being 

 about three inches long and ai)proximately si)indle-sliaped (Pis. 

 XXII, XXIII, figs. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5). The bark is deeply fissured 

 by longitudinal cracks, which are also somewhat wrinkled at the 

 bottom (fig. .3). Ill a stem three-eigliths inch diameter, the wood 

 involved is quite sound, although in dried sjjecimens of a more 

 decided yellow color than the wood of tiie stem below, which is 

 whitish in color. As the myccUum of the fungus Is perennial, the.se 

 club-shaped enlargements keep constantly increasing in length and 

 diameter from vear to year. In another somewhat larger s])ecimen 

 studied, the burl reaches a diameter of an inch and a half and is 

 about six Indies long. The fissures become much deejier, due to 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 405 



the abnormal formatiou of tlie cork, imtil on one side of the stem 

 the barky ridge is one-half iuch high, the groove being correspond- 

 ingly deep. These ridges of bark covered with small lichens give 

 to the swelling an extremely rough, cancer-like appearance (fig. 5). 

 The wood assumes a brownish aspect and the annual rings, as seen 

 by the naked eye, are more or less wavy. Occasionally the mal- 

 formation appears as an enlarged excrescence. It would seem that 

 this excrescence began its growth upon a yoimg lateral branch, 

 which afterward ceased its elongation and was covered up by the 

 enlarging fungus-infested mass of wood. The burls are about three 

 inches long and about two inclies wide, with the bark fissured into 

 deep grooves with rather broad corky flakes. The wood to the 

 naked eye resembles in appearance the well-known curly or bird's- 

 eye maple. In another specimen examined, the swelling seven 

 inches long involves the main stem and one of its branches, so that 

 the swelling, which is fissured in the characteristic way and two 

 inches in diameter, may he said to have forked. 



The swellings produced by Gymnosporangium Ellisii Berk, are 

 confined to the smaller twigs and branches. Near the summit of 

 young white cedar trees where the branches grow upward, and are 

 thus more or less crowded together, all of these branches may be 

 involved (fig. 8). The result is the formation of fan -shaped mas& 

 of swellings, which assume a fasciculate character when closely 

 crowded. The trees attacked by it may, therefore, be recognized, 

 even at a considerable distance by the peculiar distortions, which 

 consist in a dense fasciculation of the smaller brandies in different 

 parts of the tree, so that, viewed from a distance, one sees closely 

 branching tufts of a corymbose outline, which appear to terminate 

 some of the branches (fig. 8). On one lateral branch of white 

 cedar, one-half inch in diameter, twelve smaller branches were all 

 massed together into a witches' broom. The external appearance 

 of the bark on these branches is somewhat different from that 

 described for G. biseptatum. Here the bark is fissured transversely. 

 With a few longitudinally directed cracks the reddish-brown bark 

 is thus divided into a number of plates, rectangular in shape 

 (fig. 8). The smaller tsvigs are not thus affected, but instead have 

 a somewhat rugose conlinuous surface. One or two of the branches 

 involved by the fungus are dead. The swellings differ also from 

 those formed by the preceding fungal species in tapering gradually 

 30 




466 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF PlaV, 



from ilie basal eud of the twig, where the swelling is largest, toward 

 the distal end, where the growth merges with the normal diameter 

 of the lirauch (fig. 8). The abnormalities on the lateral branches 

 of two other young trees of wliite cedar are marked, because the 

 secondary branches have increased considerably in number and 

 have assumed a fasligiate habil, radiating upward and outward 

 from an approximately common point. As many as twenty small 

 branches, all about six inches long, are to be counted in a single 

 fastigiation (fig. 8). The surface of the bark in these specimens 

 is raised into vesicular roughenings, which conditioii seems to 

 precede the fonnatinu of the rectangular plates of bark by some 

 interval of time. 



Normal Stem Structure of White Cedar. 



According to Prof. Sargent," "the wood of Citpreitsm ilnjoldes 

 is light, sofi, not strong, close-grained, ea.sily worked, slightly 

 fragrant, and very dui'able in contact with the soil. It seasons 

 rapidly and perfectly withnut warping or cheeking ; it is light- 

 brown tinged with red, with thin lighter-colored sap-wood, but 

 grows darker with exposure, and contains dark-colored, conspicu- 

 ous narrow bands of small summer-cells, and numerous obscure 

 medullary rays. The specific gravity of the absolutely dry wood 

 is 0.8o'i2, a cubic foot weighing 20.70 pounds." 



The sections, made with a hand-plane, were stained with three 

 different stains, viz., methyl -green, Bismarck -brown and a mixture 

 of methyl -green and acid-fuchsin used as a double stain. The 

 histological details of the stem in an uudisea.scd slate are as follows: 

 The pith of a twenty-one-year-old stem with wood three-eighths 

 inch diameter is almost entirely absent. Its place is filled by the 

 closely aggregated spiral trachese which compose the region known 

 as the protoxylem. From this small contracted protoxylom radi- 

 ate toward the cortex the primary medullary rays and the wetlges 

 of xylem. The medullary rays are numerous, but obscure. They 

 consist in the cross-section of but a single row of thin-walled 

 parenchyma cells which are six times longer tlmn broad. The 

 wedges of wood are narrow, their radial limits being defined by the 

 medullary rays. The following table shows the variation in the size 

 of the annual rings, as determined hy a count under the microscope 



'■' Sargent, Silm of North America, X, p. U3. 




1902.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



467 



•of the uuniber of tracheids in a single radial line, proceeding from 

 the cambium to the pith. 



The striking feature in this enumeration 



Table I. 



of the tracheids is the uuiformitv of the growth ( fig. 9). The 

 diameter of the lumen and the thickness of the cell wall in nearly 

 all of the tracheids of the spring and summer wood is very nearly 

 the same in all of the annual rings of wood. This, and the fact 

 that the annual rings are not clearly delimited by the naked eye, 

 and in some cases even with the microscope, argues for au ex- 

 tremely uniform rate of growth. A uniform rate of growth pre- 

 supposes environmental conditions of little variation. 



The factors which influence the growth of the tree and the 

 formation of the wood are, therefore, fairly constant during the 

 growing season, and it is not until near the time of the cessation of 

 growth that a few tracheids of thick walls and narrow lumen are 

 laid down as autunm wood. We would expect just such influ- 

 encing environmental conditions in a sphagnum bog. 




468 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [jMay, 



COXDITIONS IXFLUEXCIXG THE GrOWTH OF WhITE CeDAR 



AND ITS Parasitic Fuxgi. 



The temperature of sphaguum hogs is well known to be low, and 

 the ex2ire#siou cold bags is frequently met with in the descriptions 

 in the manuals. European students of bogs consider the low 

 temperature as due to evaporation from the surface of the sphag- 

 num which grows in the bogs, but this seems altogether inadequate 

 to explaiLi the jjhenomenon. Gauoug" supposes it to be due rather 

 to a persistence of the winter cold, which in such a non-conducting 

 mass would last through the summer. In this explanation the 

 writer entirely agrees with Prof. Ganong, although in New Jersey 

 the winter cold does not persist throughout the entire summer: 

 One ivould expect this from the more southeru position of New 

 Jersey, as compared with the northern latitude of New Brunswick, 

 there being a difference of six degrees of latitude between the two 

 stations. The difference in latitude hardly expres.«cs the difference 

 in climate, because of the exposure of New Brunswick to the 

 descending polar currents. "It is easy to test these two hypo- 

 theses ; for if the former be true there should bo little change in the 

 temperature conditions after the summer average is once attained, or 

 even the bog might be somewhat lower in temperature when the 

 season is hottest, and hence evaporation most active ; if the latter 

 be true the bog should steadily rise in temperature through the 

 summer." Ganong took the temfjerature of the bogs studied by 

 him and found that there was a perceptible rise of temperature 

 during the summer, the temperature rising in two months an aver- 

 age of 2° at one foot under the surface. The same author found 

 on July 1, near the centre of the bog observed by him, sheets of 

 ice si.K to eight inches thick and several feet sfpiare about a foot 

 under the surface. 



All of these facts are of interest in connection with the character 

 of growth of the white cedar. The j>ersistence of the uniform 

 temperature, i.e., the slow heating up of the soil and water of the 

 swamps, regulates to a reinarkable degree the character of the 

 annual rings of wood. AVith rapid growth in the wet spring, 

 ordinary dicotyledonous trees, as a rule, have well-defined spring 

 elements with usually wide open lumen. As the sunnner ailvances 



"Ganoxg, Upon Raised Pent Bogs in tlic Province of New Bruns- 

 wick, Transactions of I he Royal Society of Canada, 2(1 Ser., Ill, p. 101. 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENX'ES OF PHILADELPHIA. 4fi9 



aud tlie soil becomes drier ami warmer, the xylem elements bee 

 thicker walled and the Inmen smaller, forming the so-called autumn 

 xylem. "Where the spring growth is delayed until growth fairly 

 commences and where the soil and ground water temperature remain 

 almost constant, the tracheids approach a uniform thickness and 

 size. The annual rings are consequently not well characlerized, 

 aud it requires in many cases a microscopic examination to deter- 

 mine the limits of the rings of wood annually laid down. We have 

 in the white cedar, Oupressus thyoides, of the New Jersey bogs an 

 exemplification of this character of ill-defined annual rings due to 

 the influence of the uniform condition of growth. The question 

 may be asked at this point. Why this digression ? The answer is, 

 the whole question of growth has a very important bearing on the 

 entrance, growth and spread of the fungi which cause the disease 

 conditions about to be described. 



It may be well here to preface the discussion of the diseases j)ro- 

 duced by the two species of Gymuosporangia by referring to a case 

 described by Ward'" which is apropos. The larch disease is due 

 to the ravages of a fungus, Dagyseijpha Willkommii, the hyphoe of 

 which obtain access by wounds to the sieve tubes and the cambium 

 of the stem, finally producing a cankerous malformation. The 

 larch fungus is to be found on trees in their alpine home, but there 

 it does very little damage and never becohies epidemic except in 

 sheltered regions near lakes and in other damp situations. ' ' How 

 then are we to explain the extensive ravages of the Larch disease over 

 the whole of Europe during the latter half of this century ?'' Ward 

 asks. " In its mountain home the Larch loses its leaves in Septem- 

 ber and remains quiescent through the intensely cold winter until 

 j\Iay. Then come the short spring aud rapid passage to summer, 

 and the Larch buds open with remarkable celerity when they do 

 begin — i.e., when the roots are thoroughly awakened to activity. 

 Hence the tender period of young foliage is reduced to a minimum, 

 and any agencies which can only injure the young leaves and the 

 shoots in the tender stage must do their work in a few days, or the 

 opportunity is gone aud the tree passes forthwith into its summer 

 state. In the plains, on the contrary, the Larch begins to open 

 at varying dates from ]March to ]\Iay, aud during the tardy sjsring 

 encounters all kinds of vicissitudes in the way of frosts and cold 



"Ward, Diseases in Plants, 1901. p. 153. 




470 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF ['^iay, 



wiucls folk)\viug ou warm clay.s which have started the root action — 

 for we must bear iu miud that the roots are more easily awakened 

 after our warmer winters tlian is safe for the tree. It amounts to 

 this, therefore, that iu the phiius the long-coutiuued period of folia- 

 tion allows insects, frost, winds, etc. , some six weeks or two months 

 in which to injure the slowly sprouting tender shoots, whereas in 

 the moimtain heights they have only a fortnight or so in which to 

 do such damage. ' ' 



^lay we not have a parallel case in the retarding influence of the 

 conditions which surround the white cedar in its boggy home, and 

 which influence is reflected in the structure of the annual rings of 

 wood already alluded to and the development of the disease about 

 to be described ? 



Additioxal Facts Coxcerxixg the Xoemal Structure 

 OF White Cedar Stems. 



Before beginning the pathological description, it may i)e well to 

 say a few more words concerning the normal structure of the stem. 

 The woody tracheids are elongated and marked with bordered pits 

 in their radial walls. The bordered pits are large and well defined, 

 both iu the radial longitudinal section and iu the transverse section. 

 Resin canals (fig. 11 _) are entirely absent from the wood, and in 

 this the general resemblance of the xylem of the white ceilar to 

 that of the pine ceases. The alisence of a well-defiued jiith in 

 Cupressun thyoides is also noteworthy. The phhvm or bast re<rion of 

 a twenty-one-year-old stem consists of alternate concentric rings of 

 hard and soft bast. The hard bast consists of bast fibres witli thick 

 chromophobic'* walls and obsolete lumen. The ba.-;t fil>res are 

 arranged in a single layer of cells in each of the annual rings of 

 bast tlemeuts. Alternating with these are the soft ba.st layers, the 

 layer latest formed being found next to the woo<l cambium. 

 Jlumerous large cii'cular and elliptical resin canals are found in the 

 phloem region, breaking the continuity of the rings of hard and 

 soft bast (fig. 11). 



A stem forty-one yeai"s old shows essentially the same structure 

 with some differences in the cortical region. The same uniformity 

 in the size of all the tracheids is noticeable, there being no sharp 



"A term proposed liy Montiromery to descrilje llie walls and proto- 

 plasm of cells that are refractory to stains. 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 471 



delimitatiou of the anniuil rings of wood. An enumeration of the 

 tracheids iu a single row from pith to cortex is here given, as an 

 expression of the relative size of each annual ring. The wood of 

 the stem from which the enumeration is made is one inch diameter. 



Table II. 



The tracheids of the first three years of growth are more rounded 




472 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEJIY OF [^lay, 



iu contour and their walls are thicker thau those of subsequent 

 years. 



The phloem of a forly-oue-year-old stem differs materially from 

 that of a twenty-one-year-old stem in the absence of strongly 

 marked layers of bast fibres. Bast fibres are present, but they are 

 not in continuous lavcrs. Even with the high power, it is difficult 

 to trace their continuity. The resin canals occupy a definite area, 

 viz., midway iu the phloem. The medullary rays of the phloem 

 are continuous with those of the xylem, running out to the active 

 cork cambium (fig. 12). True cortical parenchyma is entirely 

 absent from such stems. The cork is in several well-marked zones 

 or bands. These bands are separated from each other by the sev- 

 eral layers of cork cambium. Seven well-niarked layer's of cork 

 cambium are met with in this forty-one-year-old stem. The outer 

 one is about to be pushed off Ijy the sixth layer of cork. The 

 innermost cork cambium lies against the outer rows of plilam cells. 

 Several old functiouless resin canals are included in the mass of 

 dead exfoliating bark. They are conspicuous as rounded or ellipti- 

 cal holes iu the mass of cork cells. The external aj)pearancc of 

 the bark of large trees is smooth than otherwise. It is usually from 

 three-quarters of an iiicli to nearly an inch in thickness, light 

 reddish -brown, and divided irregularly into narrow, fiat connected 

 ridges, which are often sjiirally twisted around the stem, and separ- 

 ated into elongated loose or olosely appressed plate-like fibrous 

 scales. 



rATlIOEOfilCAL COSSIDERATIOXS. 



The pathological conditions which are followed by the striking 

 increase in the size of the stems are of long duration, iis evidenced 

 by a micro.scopic examination of the swellings. The fight for 

 supremacy, if such it may be called, is a long-drawn-out one. A 

 section was made acroi?s the smallest stem canker which comj)letely 

 girdled the whole stem. It was found upon examining the abnor- 

 mality that the same annual ring is not of a uniform thickness 

 throughout, being thinner in some parts than in others. The rings 

 are clearly much thicker than those of the normal stem. Sixteen 

 rings in all were counted iu the region of the canker. This in- 

 creased width of the rings is due to an increa.se iji the number of 

 traclieids produced by the cambium. These tracheids, as well as 




1902.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF THILADELPHIA. 



473 



the cells of the mechillarv rays, are usuall}' of a greater diameter 

 than the normal, ^yhich also accounts for the greater width of the 

 rings formed at the canker. These obsei'vations agree with those of 

 Anderson" upon the canker growth produced by Dasyscypha resin- 

 aria. The medidlary rays of the swollen areas of (he stem seem 

 to increase somewhat in diameter. This increase of diameter is not 

 due to the increase in the number of parallel rows of cells, but is 

 due to the increase in diameter of the single row of parenchj-ma 

 cells which is met with in the normal cross-section. These cells 

 stain more deeply than the normal cells because of the granular 

 contents. Further reference to this change of content in the 

 medullary ray cells of diseased sections of the stem will be made 

 with a description of the longitudinal section of the diseased 

 regions. 



If a number of tracheids in the annual rings of the swollen area 

 of the sixteen years of growth be compared with the table disi)lay- 

 ing the number of tracheids in the annual rings of twenty-one 

 years' growth, a wide difference is at once observable. Tlie num- 

 ber of tracheids in the abnormal growth is clearly gi'ealer than in 

 the normal one. 



Table III. 



" Anderson, Alexander P., Dasj-scypha resinaria causing canker 

 growth on Abies balsamea in Minnesota, BulUtin of the Torrey 



Botanical Club, XXIX, pp. 23-34. 




474 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



One of the most frequent results of the action of fungi is that 

 of a stimuhis given to cell di\-ision. Mention in this connection 

 must be made of the swellings on the stems of silver firs, whose 

 cortical tissues arc infested by yEcidium ehdinum ; the increased 

 growth of the cowberry through the atlack of Mclamqiora 

 (Calyptospora) Gceppertiana ;^^ of the larch through the influence of 

 Peziza (Helotium) Willlcon.viii.^^ Still more frequently the infested 

 parts are stimulated to disjilay abnormal growths. Flowers and 

 fruits of various species of plants are transformed in a most 

 peculiar manner by fungi belonging to the genus Exoaseus. The 

 disease of the silver fir, howes'er, caused by ^Ecidium (Perider- 

 mium) elaihitim is the most appi'opriate one to compare with the 

 canker knobs produced on the white cedar by GymnonporiaH/iuin 

 hi-ieptatiun. The mycelium of this fungus, according to Hartig, is 

 perennial in the cortical and bast tissues of the stem, and even 

 penetrates the cambium and the wood. M'ith the spread of tlie 

 mycelium, the swellings or canker spots increase in size, and if 

 present on the stem of a vigorous tree, they may attain to large 

 dimensions. At such places the tissues of the cortex and bast 

 become fissured and dry up here and there, as far as the wood, 

 giving the whole exterior of the swelling a rough, shaggy appear- 

 ance. The swellings resemble much in external character tho.se 

 described by the writer as occurring on the white cedar in Xew 

 Jersey. Anderson'" describes the changes produced in the cortex 

 of Abies bahamea by Dasyscijpha reslnaria in the following quota- 

 tion from his paper: " In Ihe bark of the canker, the periderm as 

 well as the primary cortex, and outer layers of the secondaiy 

 cortex, are verj' soon cut off by the formation of a new phellogeii 

 layer. This causes the death of the cut-off layers of the bark, 

 which dry up sooner than in the normal. The resiu canals are also 

 cut off and disturbed, and their re.^in contents begin to diffuse into 

 the surrounding tissues, but mostly collect in the resin vesicles or 

 ' blistei*s,' which are also formed sooner in the primary cortex of 

 the canker than in the normal bark. The resin of the canker 

 vesicles is forced out by the increased pressure'on the vesicle, by 

 the shrinkage of the surrounding dead layers of the bark, cut off by 



I* Hartig, Text-Book of the Diseases of Trees, 1804, p. 101. 

 '•' Hartig, loe. cit., p. 120. 

 '"Anderson, loc. cit., p. 29. 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPEIA. 475 



the new phellogen. The resin Ihus forced ont runs down the 

 trunk of 1 he tree, the more volatile substances evaporating, lea^-iug the 

 solid resin, which hardens and giv'es the trunk a glazed appearance 

 easily seen at some distance from the tree." Peziza (Dasy--icypha) 

 WiUkommll and jEcidium (Peridermium) elatinum caii.se similarly 

 an iucreased growth of the cortex. In summer the growth of the 

 mycelium of the former ceases and an unusually broad layer of 

 cork is formed, for the protection of the tree, along the boundary 

 between the sound and diseased tissues. Year by year the canker 

 Sf)0t enlarges and the conflict ))etweeu parasite and host plant may 

 remain long undecided. Hartig found in the Tyrol larches still 

 alive with blisters of a hundred years' standing. The second fun- 

 gus, whose mycelium stimulates giowth in a very marked manuei', 

 is perennial in the cortical aud bast tissues of the stem, and even 

 penetrates the cambium aud the wood. The influence of the 

 fungus is to induce the increaserl formation of the wood, but espe- 

 cially the more vigorous development of the cortex. 



This account with reference to the increased activity of the 

 phellogen (cork cambium), due to the fungi mentioned, descrilies 

 in a fairly accurate manner the method of augmented growth in the 

 white cedar caused by Gymiiosporanr/ium hiseptalum. Four suc- 

 cessive cork cambial layers have been developed in this sixteen- 

 year-old stem, with the possibilit}' of more that have been exfoliated. 

 The newest phellogen has developed inside the phkem, cutting 

 off from the more internal layers three concentric layere of hard 

 bast. Not only has the hard bast been cut off from the inside of 

 the stem, but also the rosin canals, with, however, only a slight 

 exudation of resin, the corky flakes remaining almost quite dry. 

 The three outer cork cambia have only affected the primary cortex, 

 and between these layers of phellogen the resin canals have ex- 

 panded to their widest diameter. The layers of cork cambium 

 take a somewhat sinuous coui'se in running around the stem, so that 

 they apparently loop in and out among the rapidly dying cells. 



The hyphte of the fungus live apparently in the cells of the 

 wood cambium and those of the phlcem recently cut off from the 

 cambium. This is evidenced by a study of the cells. The hyphse 

 in cross-section occupy the lumen of the cells, for, in addition to the 

 cellulose cell wall of the host, there are rounded or elliptical rings 

 tilled with granular matter (figs. 18, 19). These rings are the 




476 PEOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF L^^'*.^' 



trausversely or obliquely cut hyi)li» which, by their presence, stimu- 

 late the cambium to increased activity. With the exceptiou of 

 these there seems to be no other attributable cause for the foimatiou 

 of the sv.'clliugs, because the wood at this stage of the disease is free 

 fi'om all appearance of disintegration. It is, however, otherwise 

 when the disease has progressed for some yeai-s. One remarks this 

 on studying the sections of a canker that has progressed in develop- 

 ment for some ten or more years. In all of the larger swellings 

 studied by the writer, the cambium had been killed in a number of 

 places. The dead spots vary in size in different cankers, but they 

 seldom become confluent by extending completely around the stem 

 or Ijranch. When they meet so as to girdle the .stem, the stem 

 dies. More often the dead area is f-njall, remaining about the .'ame 

 size for a number of years. The living camlnum makes an effort to 

 repair the damage, but this i1 is not able completely to do on 

 account of the presence of the mycelium in the tissues. A cavity 

 or pocket finally results at the dead spot with the increase in num- 

 ber of the annual rings (fig. 14). As with the disease of Abies 

 balmmea descrilied by Anderson, often several such cavities are 

 formed when tlie cambium has been killed at more than one spot, 

 and these cavities or pockets contain hardened resin. In the while 

 cedar a comparatively small amount of .'•esin collects, but in Abies 

 huhamea the ainuuiit is (luite considerable. In stems of white 

 cedar that have iieuii long diseased and that are dead above the 

 swelling the brown bark cracks off, exposing the wood, the exter- 

 nal surface of which is ventricose (fig. 14). The sap-wood of 

 such badly diseased swellings has become j)orous, partly rotten and 

 divided uj) into plates by the pores, the cracks or the fissures that 

 abound. The heart-wood is still firm. Under the microscope this 

 breaking down of the sap-wood does not seem to follow an absorj)- 

 tiou of the middle lamella of the cell wall l>y ferment action, but is 

 due to a springing free of the lignificd portion of the cell wall. 

 Later the walls seem to break across and pieces of lignified cell 

 wall, some U-shaped, some Y-shajJcd, liang free along the edges of 

 the fissures thus formed. Here the disease has progressed to it-s 

 fullest extent (fig. 32). 



Tlie liyph:v from the point of infection grow through the cortex 

 and then spread vertically up and down through the jthlaMu. By 

 the second year they have established themselves in the caml)iun) 




1902.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



477 



and iu its immediate neighborhood (fig. 18). The pathological 

 conditions set up by these hyphse have been described, but'in^addi- 

 tion to the increase of the bast and the wood, we have an increase 

 in the number of cells iu tlie cortex and the bark. The course of 

 the hyphsB and their distribution throughout the swellings will be 

 described more in detail. A brief mention at this point suffices to 

 draw attention to them. 



The Plugc;ed Tracheids. 



The wood of the abnormal regions of the stem shows iu addition 

 to the hyphse brown-colored spots which are absent in stems of 

 normal proportions. Without discussing at this juncture the nature 

 and significance of these brown spots, which are due to the plug- 

 ging of the tracheids, it is appropriate to discuss the distribution of 

 the spots throughout the diseased regions of the stems. Plugged 

 tracheids are fouud in the swellings with sixteen rings of growth, 

 beginning with the fourth annual ring of wood. Here they are 

 seen iu the spring wood. Counting the number of such plugged 

 tracheids in a half-circle of the fourth annual ring of wood and in 

 tlie rings of successive years of the same stem, we obtain the follow- 

 ing numerical statement : 



Table IV. 



An inspection of the table shows that in small swellings the 




478 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [^II}', 



plugged traclieids are coufined almost entirely to the summer wood, 

 and occur iu lai-gest number in the first six or eight years of 

 growth. Very few are found in tlie annual rings subsequeut to the 

 ninth. 



Older stem caukers .show these plugged tracheids more plentifully 

 from I he first annual ring of wood laid down to the last one (figs. 

 16, 17). The larger excrescences have them in greatest number. 

 The smaller excrescences are without them. At the point, how- 

 ever, where the tissues of the swellings join the main portion of 

 the stem, these plugged ti-acheids are so numei'ous that they form 

 well-marked concentric baud-'. The following statement roughly 

 expresses the position and abundance of the plugged tracheids in 

 the several annual rings of a swelling witli well-marked excres- 

 cences. 



Second Year Wood. Summer. Abundant, forming a compact 

 . circular zone. 



Third Year ]]'<iod. Spring. Abundant, forming a locjse zime. 



Fourth i'ear M'ood. Summer. Sparse, except cue area where 

 the jilugged tracheids are closely aggregateil together. At this 

 point till' ring is much narrower, taking a U-shaped l)Ciid inward. 

 The autunui wood here is wanting. The fourlli annual ring is, 

 therefore, continuous except at this one point, where it becomes 

 l)eut inward. Instead of the fifth year wooil following this in- 

 dented porlion of the fourth year wood, it fills uj) the indented area 

 with adilitional tracheids, so that at Ihe end of the fifth year llie 

 course of the autumn wood again conforms to a circular outline. 



Fifth Year Wood. Atitunni. S[)arse. 



Si.rth Year Wood. Late summer. Plenliful. 



Scvodh Year Wood. Summer. Autumn. A few pluggetl 

 tracheids are found in the summer wood. ^lore are met with iu 

 the aulunm wood. 



Eighth Year Wood. Late spring. The i)luggcd traclieids are 

 very abundant and in a definite circular zone. — Summer. Abun- 

 dant in two circular zones. Late summer. Scattered. 



.Xinth Year Wood. Summer. Very few, "but tlic plugged 

 tracheids apparently become brown lines cotermiuous with the 

 nu'ilullary rays. 



Tinlh Year Wood. Autumn. .Vl)undant and occupying in a 

 circular zone the region of the autumn wood. The same brown 

 lines are traceable running out to the cortex. 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 479 



Eleventh Year Wood. Late summer. Plentiful in a detiuite 

 zone. A fe^r in the autumn wood. 



Twelfth Year Wood. Spring. In a definite zonal band, two or 

 three tracheids deep. A few in the summer wood. A ring of scat- 

 tered tracheids at the beginning of the autumn wood. 



Thirteenth Year Wood. Whole year. Here the small excres- 

 cence began its growth. It is limited on both sides by dead tissue. 

 The plugged tracheids form several circular zones both in the spring 

 and summer woods. Thiee well-marked circular zones of plugged 

 tracheids are clearly distinguishable, forming with their aggregation 

 an almost continuous area involving most of the tracheids of the 

 spring and early summer woods. Beyond the area with the largest 

 number of these plugged tracheids occurs the small excrescence 

 which has grown over the adjacent bark at the dead areas, pro- 

 ducing a characteristic fissure. The disposition of these plugged 

 elements in concentric rings in the several annual cylinders of wood 

 is somewhat analogous to the disposition of the resin canals in A lies 

 bahamea, diseased by Dasy-icypha resinaria, as described by Ander- 

 son. This botanist finds that these are arranged in circular rows 

 and in all cases follow the development of the above-mentioned 

 fungus. According to the same author, Not! berg produced these 

 resin canals experimentally in the wood and branches of Abies 

 pedinala by fracturing the branches. The characleristic canal 

 chains were formed in the wood near the fracture three months 

 after the wound had been made.'' 



The phla?m and cortex regions of the swollen areas are remark- 

 aljle for the increase in the numljer of elements. The cork, hard 

 and soft bast, representing the previous activity of the cambial 

 layers, are piLshed off more rapidly than iu a normal uudiseased 

 area (figs. 13, 14). New layers of hard and soft bast are formed 

 constantly by (he wood candjium, and the noteworthy features of 

 such phkem is that the bast fibres do not form so continuous a circle 

 of growth, but are isolated in patches. The cells of the soft bast 

 are more irregular in outline (fig. 13). The resin canals in such 

 cro.ss-seclions are also more inconstant iu outline. .Some of them 

 are large and of irregular shape ; others are circular and small. 

 The resin canals in the normal slate are, as a rule (not always), 

 elliptical in cross- section. Where the cortex of the excrescence 



-'Anderson, loc. cit., p. 31. 




480 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



meets that of the uumodified stern it is imich reduced in width, 

 and there are no cortical cells where, by the folding ovei' of the 

 swelling, forceful compression occui-s. The bast fibres in transverse 

 section are, as a rule, rectangular with rounded cornel's. The lumen 

 has almost completely disappeared. In unstained mounts these 

 elements have the luster of German silver. These fibres are more 

 continuous in some places than in others. Their continuity is only 

 broken by the cortical medullary rays. 



Longitudinal sections of two swellings were studied. The swell- 

 ings used to make the sections may be described as follows: The 

 first one forms a burl-like outgrowth on one of the smaller lateral 

 branches which had growTi through the activity of the fungus very 

 considerably in size, the end being rounded and clubbed. The 

 other swelling represents a malformation of the main stem and a 

 branch, ,a section of which is in general Y-shaped. Tlie thicker 

 part of the swelling represents the stem of the Y. These sections 

 were stained with methyl-green. The normal tracheids are chromo- 

 phobic. The bordered pits are well marked in all of the tracheids. 



The plugged tracheids mentioned in the consideration of tlie 

 transvei-se sections are well marked. They stain in general of a 

 dark -green color, and the lumen seems to be enlarged and filled 

 with granular contents. The ends of such tracheids are more rounded 

 than the ends of normal ones. The cell-limien is larger. The 

 wall is more wavy and the course of the elements more irregular. 

 In some of these plugged tracheids the contents seem to be more or 

 less granular. These become dark-green in color by the use of the 

 methyl-green. That these longitudinally directed plugged tracheids 

 correspond to the brown spot referred to in the tlescription of the 

 several cro.ss-sections is easily demonstrated by observing iheir coui-se 

 in the sections of lateral branches foimd iu the longitudinal sections 

 of the swellings. It is observable that the longitudinally directetl 

 tracheids filled with granular matter take a sharp bend and run 

 into the branch, where they are seen iu transverse section. Tlie 

 medullary ray cells also of such sections become deeply stained 

 when metliyl-green is applied. Tangential sections of tiie swellings 

 show the medullary ray cells stretching acros.s the tracheids in a 

 gridiron fa.shion. The parencliynia cells of the medullary rays 

 are long compared to their diameter. The ratio of .J to 1 will 

 express in an approximate manner the reliUive length and diame- 

 ter of such parenchyma cells. 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 481 



Contents of PLuciGED Tracheids and Filled Medullary 



Ray Cells. 



The Unverdorben-Frauchinioiit reaction with copper acetate was 

 ased as a special reageut to determine the presence or absence of 

 resins and terpenes." It was thought that the material plugging the 

 tracheids and filling some of the medullary ray cells might be of a 

 resinous nature. The reaction is indecisive as to the material in 

 the tracheids. An emerald-green color is produced by the copper 

 acetate in the area of wood most affected by the fuugus and where 

 the active formation of the wood and bast took place. This green 

 color is confined to the newly formed sap-wood and to the immediate 

 neighborhood of the most active mycelial growth. The appearance 

 of the emerald-green color indicates the presence of resin, and, in 

 fact, in thin longitudinal sections of the wood of the stem at the 

 swelliug there is found a granular matter which stains a malachite- 

 green. This material, which reacts to the copper acetate, occurs as 

 a peripheral layer about the brownisli matrix in the center of the 

 filled medullary ray cells and the plugged tracheids, and this is 

 most pronounced where the influence of the fungous parasite seems 

 1o be most marked. In some cases the green color indicates that 

 whole medullary ray cells contain a resinous material. The con- 

 tents of the resin canal cells of the phloem and of the cortex react 

 to the copper acetale, and the dried resin which occurs on the surface 

 of and in the fissures of the bark becomes of a siriking malachite- 

 green color. These latter reactions confirm the Unverdorben- 

 Frauchimont test. The green color imparted to the wood is con- 

 fined to patches and is not generally distributed. The brown 

 material in general of the plugged tracheids and medullary ray 

 cells is not influenced by the copper acelate. That this reaction 

 seems to indicate the presence of I'esin in the most diseased areas 

 and another fundamentally different substance is indicated by the 

 fact that adjoining cells will have their contents colored emerald- 

 green, while others will remain uniformly uncolored. In a trans- 

 verse section of the area of wood stained green, the contents of 

 the plugged tracheids (figs. 16, 17) still retain their brownish- 

 yellow color. Notwithstanding these facts, one point seems to be 

 <lefinitely settled, viz., that the presence of the mycelium in the 



" ZiMMERMANN-HuMPHREY, Botanical Microtecliniquc, pp. 90, 91. 

 3t 




482 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



sap-wood and cambium leads to the accumidatiou of lesiu, a 

 bj'owuish-yellow material which appeare to be fungus gamboge, as 

 indicated by the following test : A .-solution of ferric-cliloride coloi-s 

 fimgus gamboge olive-green or blackish-brown, and in the sections 

 of white cedar so treated a decidedly blackish-brown color is 

 obtained. The material in the tracheids is, therefore, named 

 tentatively fungus gamboge. Besides this material, which seems to 

 form the matrix, there are numerous small rounded grains which 

 plentifully fill the medullary ray cells. These granules stain brown 

 when iodine solution is used, green when methyl-green is used, and 

 brown when BLsmarck-brown is applied. The substances which 

 then collect in the diseased stems of white cedar through the meta- 

 bolic changes stimulated by the fungus mycelium are tentatively 

 the following: Proteid bodies, in small rounded granules; resin, 

 which is confined to the area^ of stem undergoing the most rapid 

 histologic changes; fungus gamboge, which with the other materials 

 referred to fills the medullary ray cells and plugs the tracheids. 

 Besides these, there are amorplious masses of substance in some 

 of the medullary ray cells. These in the natural state are yellowish 

 in color. When the sections are stained with methyl-green, these 

 masses become green in color. It is impossible to state at this 

 time what these amorphous masses really are. 



With strong iodine solution the walls of the tracheids color a 

 deep brownish-yellow, and this reaction is marked in both the longi- 

 tudinal aud tlie transverse sections. 



The Mycelium of Gyjixosporaxgium biseitatl.m. 



A study of the mycelium yields some interesting results. ThcA* 

 results become of importance when a comparison of the mycelia of 

 the different si^ecies of Gymno'«])orangmm is made with reference to 

 their growth an duration. Farlow^' briefly sketches the character 

 of the mycelium in the American species studied by him. " Tlie 

 mycelium does not differ much from that commonly found in the 

 other Urcfliuere. It is irregiUar, mucli branched and cross parti- 

 tions are ratJier numerous. Unlike, however, the mycelium of 

 some of the Pucciniie, that of the species of the present genu.? is 

 limited in extent, and is not found throughout the whole of llie 



^' F.YRLOW, The Gymnosporangi'i or Cedar Apples of the United Stutet, 

 1880, p. 10. 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 483 



plant on which it is growing, but is confined to certain portions of 

 the stems or leaves. The myceliuai of most of the species is per- 

 ennial — that is, the mycelium which has produced a crop of spores 

 (figs. 29, 30) one year, will the next year, under ordinary circum- 

 stances, produce another crop in or near the same place." The 

 explanation of tlie difference in the character of the different 

 abnormal growths produced by the various species 'of Gymno- 

 sporangia is to be sought in the amount and extent of the mvcelium, 

 the rapidity of its growth and its duration. We have in a rapidly 

 growmg annual species, viz., G. maeropus, a large, rather spongy 

 excrescence, which shrivels in drying. The excrescence is more 

 dense in the perennial species of slower growth, viz., G. (jlohosum. 

 The mycelium of G. hkeptatum, according to Farlow, is compara- 

 tively limited in amount, and does not increase rapidly, and in 

 consequence the formation of the annual wood layers is not pre- 

 vented, nor the nutrition of the branches above much interfered 

 with. The mycelium, as described by Farlow, is found principallv in 

 the region of the cambium, and acts rather as a stimulant than as 

 a destructive agent. There is in G. Ellisii a more luxuriant and 

 rapidly growing mycelium, which extends along the smaller 

 branches and is abundant enough to interfere with the nutrition of 

 the infected branches. The consequence is that the branches above 

 become shoit and stubby, and at length densely fasciated. The 

 branch below the fungus remains normal in character, so that in- 

 stead of a nodose swelling we have a tuft of short branches borne 

 on the end of a normal branch."* 



With this brief resume' of the character of the mycelium in the 

 ilifferent species of Gymnosporanffium living in the wood of con- 

 iferous trees, it is important to make a more detailed study of the 

 character of the mycelium and its relation to the cells of the host 

 in Gynmosporangium biseptutum. Very little of a definite charac- 

 ter can be ascertained by a study of the transverse section of the 

 diseased wood of the white cedar. Here and there the cut ends 

 of the hyphse are seen, and occasionally the knuckle-like fiortion 

 of one that is bent is seen in the cross-section (figs. 18, 19). The 

 hyphpe, which aie instrumental in stimulating the production of 

 additional wood and bast, live in the cells of the wood cambium. 

 This is evidenced by a study of the cells. The hyphije in cross- 



'-• See ante. 




484 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



section appareutly occupy the liimeu of the cells, for, in addition to 

 the cellulose cell wall of the host, thej-e are rounded or elliptical 

 rings filled with granular matter. The difficulty of clearly tracing 

 the hyph;e in a crofs-seetiou is almost entirely removed by careful 

 study of longitudinal sections. Such longitudinal sections i-eveal 

 the following distribution of the hypha3 and their relation to the 

 cells of the host : 



The hyphte are of a brown coLjr, and can easily be traced by 

 means of the contrast which this color affords to the colorless 

 iracheids and to the medullary ray cells which have stained a 

 bright-green color with methyl-green. The mycelium is not abun- 

 dant, and if we imagine the host cells to be macerated away, leav- 

 ing the mycelium, it would form a reticulum of large open meshes 

 much in appearance like a coai-se fish -net, only not so regular (fig 

 22). The hyphre are variously curved, gnarled or knuckled (fig. 

 22). Their course is somewhat sinuous, or an undulate one, 

 although in many cases the larger hyphal strands are perfectly 

 straight. They occur in all parts of the wood of the swelling, and 

 are associated in general with the plugged tracheids and the en- 

 larged medullar}' rays, which contain the yellowish granular matter 

 to which reference has ali'eady been made. The ])lugging of some 

 of the tracheids in the several annual rings of wood with yellowish 

 granular material and the enlargement and filling up of the medid- 

 lary ray cells seems to be correlated with the presence of the my- 

 celium. The tracheids and medullary ray cells distant from the 

 strands of the mycelium are without these evidences of nutritive 

 changes, followed by the filling of the cell cavity by the granular 

 waste, or i-eserve (?) products. The hypha; are marked by numer- 

 ous transverse partition walls, and these are sufficient to indicate 

 that the fungus belongs to the higher series of fungal types. iSorae 

 of these hyphal cells are long and cylindrical. Others are shorter 

 and more cheese-box-like in form. 



Kei.ation <ii' IIypii.t; t(i Ho.st Cell.s. 



The iiyphre grow into and through the medullary ray colls, and 

 ii is through these cells that the uiycelium maintains its continuity 

 from annual wood ring to annual wood ring. It is this growth 

 through the medullary rays that accounts for the perennial habit of 

 the fungus. At best the growth of the fungus is a slow one, as the 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 485 



hypliEB arc nowhere abundant, and where tliev do occur they seem 

 to grow with the tracheids. The evidence of intracellular growth is 

 clear. -■' In one set of medullary ray cells a hypha is found which 

 forms an enlargement against a transverse partition wall before 

 penetrating it by secretion of a ferment Tfig. 22). Fortunately 

 for clearness of observation, the end walls of two adjoining cells 

 are slight!}^ separated, leaving a lens-like intercellular space (fig. 

 23). Through this space the hypha, contracted to a narrow thread- 

 like bridge, is seen to pa.ss, enlarging again on the other side (fig. 

 23 ). The hypha \vhich thus penetrates the cell wall passes to 

 the other end of the same medullary cell, where it enlarges into a 

 knob-like extremity (fig. 23). It, however, gives rise to a branch 

 in the midtlle of the medullary ray cell. This branch grows out 

 transversely by means of a bordered pit into the lumen of a wood 

 tracheid, through which it runs to the next medullary ray lying 

 parallel to the firet. Here a new branch is found at right angles 

 to its former course through the tracheid, which enters a medullarv 

 ray cell. This branch in turn produces another one at right angles 

 to itself, and this again another one which runs into new medullary 

 ray cells. The description of the course of this hypha, which is 

 clearly traceable in the longitudinal section of the swollen stem, 

 epitomizes the course of practically all of the hyphse studied in the 

 several longitudinal sections. The hyphse enter the longitudinally 

 directed wood tracheids through the path of least resistance, viz., 

 through the membrane of the bordered pit (figs. 24, 24a, 25, 26). 

 In several instances this mode of exit and entrance is clearly trace- 

 able in the sections. By following the course of a hypha through 

 the lumen of a tracheid it is found suddenly to dip down at the 

 pointed extremity of the tracheid, opposite to the la.st bordered pit, 

 and after disappearing from focus it again apj^ears in another 

 tracheid. By carefully focusing it is demonstrated that the hypha 

 passes through the bordered pit, and after taking a U-shaped 

 bend it appears again on the original level in another tracheid (fig. 

 22). 



The mycelium does not show any relatiousliip to the nuclei of 

 the host cells, such as has been demonstrated to be the case with the 



-^ Farlow found in G. macropus the mycelium in tae leaves where 

 thei'e are haustoria [sic] which enter the parenchymatous cells. The 

 fact that the mycelium grows in the leaves and not in the stem may 

 account for this difference in srowtli. 




486 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



hyphse of endotropic mycorhiza. Groom'-*' ami Magnus-' have both 

 worked upon this problem, and both botanists have shown that iu 

 the case of the hvphfe of mycorhiza fungi they enter a cell because 

 they are attracted thither by a chemotropically active substance 

 and grow toward the nucleus, because that substance is present 

 there in optimum proportions. These investigators conclude that 

 the chemotropically active substance attracts tlie hyphte and is 

 manufactured in the cell infected, and particularly in the vicinity 

 of the nucleus of that cell. No clearly defined relationship of this 

 kind is discoverable iu the medullary ray cells of the white cedar. 

 The hyphse riiu straight through many of the cells witliout devi- 

 ating from their course. 



This distribution of the mycelium in O. hUeplatum seems to be 

 similar to the distribution of jiyplue iu G. Ellidi as described by 

 Farlow. The mycelium of this species, according to t'arlow, is of 

 rather large size and in cross-sections of the stem is .seen to follow 

 the medullary rays, sometimes extending nearly to the center of 

 the stem, and occasionally forming partial circles between the 

 annual rings. The greater part of tlie mycelium in G. Ellisli, 

 according to Farlow, is fomid near the camliium, it collects 

 in ma.sses in the bark to form the sporifcrous bodies which originate 

 at some little distance beneath the surface. 



jMycelium OF Gymnosporaxgil'.m Ellisii. 



The mycelium of Gymnosporanffium EUini Ls more copious than 

 that of G. hhseptatum, and its activity seems to be more marked 

 in producing pathological changes in the tissues of the host. It 

 may be traced in both radial and tangential longitudinal .sections to 

 the best advantage. The development of the hypluc of tlie my- 

 celium in the sections studied by the writer is in a longitudinal 

 rather than in a tran.sver.se direction (fig. 24). The main hyphte 

 of the mycelium are longitudinal ones, and tiie.-^ anastonio.*e with 

 each otlier by the formation of short hyphje developed at right 

 angles to the longitudinal ones. The course of the main hvplue is 

 appr<«imately a straight one, although of necessity there is .some 



''Groom, On Thismia Asera> (Beccari) and its Mycorhiza, Annals of 

 Botany. IX, pii. 327-300. 



-■ JIagncs, Weunkk, Studien an der endotropben Mycorhiza von 

 Neoitia nidus-avis L., Jahrbuchcr fur wiisenschaftliche Jiot., 19uO, p. 

 205. 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 487 



bending from a straight line as they run from tracheid to tracheid 

 (fig. 25). Some annual rings are noted for the considerable num- 

 ber of hyphse present. Others are marked by the small number 

 and weak development of the hyphse. The color of the hyplite 

 is an umber-brown, practically the same as that of the hyphte of 

 GpnnosporaiKjium hUeptatum. Occasiouall}' hyphfe in G. Ellisii cive 

 found that are yellowish-brown in color. The hyphal strands are 

 characterized b)' the well-marked transveree partitions, which are 

 evident even under the low power of the microscope. It may be 

 remarked here that the general course of the mycelium can be 

 clearly followed by the low power alone. The mycelium is more 

 abundant in the cortex and comparatively less abundant in the 

 x\-lera. Some peculiarities of structure of the hyphse of this 

 species easily differentiate it from G. biseptatum. The hyphte of 

 G. Ellisii form, as revealed by the high power of the microscoioe, 

 a somewhat irregular reticulum (fig. 24). These hyphse are char- 

 acterized by the presence of larger or smaller nodose or veutricose 

 hyphal cells (figs. 2.5, 26, 27), which are fovmd in considerable 

 numbers in the length of each hyphal strand. These swollen or 

 enlarged cells are found most frequently in the irregular intercellular 

 spaces, filled with brownish material produced b_y the pathological 

 changes induced in the host by the growth of the fimgus. Occa- 

 sionally these veutricose hyphal cells are found as lateral branches 

 of the main longitudinally directed hyphse. Their shajje may he 

 spherical, ellipsoidal, oblate-spheroidal, napiform or fusiform (figs. 

 2.5, 26, 27). They are of the same umber-brown color as the 

 other unenlarged hyphal cells, and are most numerous in the cor- 

 tical region and in the aforementioned pathological areas filled with 

 brown material. 



Relation of Hyphje of G. Ellisii to Host Cells. 



The course of the hyphse in the stem may be briefly described as 

 follows : The straight hypha runs through the lumeu of the 

 tracheid until it comes to a bordered pit which lies in the direction 

 of its growth (figs. 24, 24o). This bordered pit is entered, and by 

 a solution of the middle lamella of the cell wall at this poiut it 

 crosses to a neighboring tracheid, when it again takes a longitu- 

 dinal direction. Sometimes two or three tracheids are crossed by 

 the hypha before it again takes an up-and-down course (fig. 24). 




488 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [MaV, 



The liypha, as it passes through the area of the bordered pit, en- 

 larges to fill the space foriiied when the middle lamella of the cell 

 wall at this point is dissolved by ferment action (fig. 24a). The 

 h}'pha at this point, therefore, becomes in shape like a double 

 convex lens. Again, a hypha that runs in general longitudi- 

 nally in the tracheids may leave these and enter a medullary 

 ray cell, where it courses transversely, enlai-giug meanwhile in 

 the medullary ray cell and giving off short rounded branches 

 which may be called tentatively haustoria. A h)pha that enters 

 a tracheid in one direction may form two branches, one a short, 

 lateral, downward-directed branch that ends in one of the large 

 ventricose cells (fig. 27) to which reference has been made, and 

 another branch wliich runs to the end of the tracheid and leaves it 

 through a bordered pit to enter another tracheid. Another hyplia 

 rims lengthwise until it comes opposite to the pointed end of an- 

 other traclieid, where a row of five bordered pits is seen in trans- 

 verse section. For each of these bordered pits the longitudinal 

 hypha gives off a branch (figs. 24, 24((). Eacli branch thus 

 formed swells in the space of the bordered pit to form a lens like 

 enlargement before the braneli enters the contracted lumen at the 

 jjointed end of the other tracheid. All of these appearances are 

 illustrated in the annexed figures (figs. 24, 24a, 25, 26, 27, 28). 



The course of tlic hyphte in the areas of stem that have been trans- 

 formed pathologically into a broken-down mass of a brown color, 

 forming pockets throughout the wood, is more irregular. Here 

 the hyphic forming the mycelium bend and twist about, now form- 

 ing an enlarged ventricose hyphal cell, and again producing such a 

 swollen cell as the termination of a short lateral branch. Short 

 stubby branches are also formed in the course of these same 

 hypha?, consisting in most ca.ses of a single short cell. The hyphse 

 of these brown areas have also increased considerably in diameter, 

 being much thicker tliau those of the mycelium whicli grows in 

 the tracheids. The larger hyphse are found in the cleft-like inter- 

 cellular spaces and grow in and out between the dead and broken- 

 down cells, as well a.-: through the resin-like substance which fills 

 the pockets to which reference has been nuide above. 



The hyi)ii;ie in the smaller transverse sections of the diseased stem 

 are also clearly traceable. They are seen as purplisli-brown rings 

 in the lumen of tlie tracheids (figs. 20, 21). Several adjacent 




1902.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



489 



tracheids will have liyphse coursing through them, and oocasionally 

 two or three hyphse are met with in a single tracheidal cavil y. 

 ^^'here these hyphae, by branching, cross transversely other 

 tracheids, they are observed in cross-seclions of stem as short 

 threads, or as U-shaped or ^'-shaped elements of a purplish-brown 

 color. Whenever these hyphie in their branchinfc enter one of the 

 brown areas with cleft-like cavities, they grow through the Ijrown 

 mass, enlarging meanwhile in diameter, and grow out into the cleft, 

 where they branch and reliranch in an irregular manner, swelling 

 here and there into the nodose or ventricose cells referred to above 

 (fig. 27). Occasionally the hypha3 are found growing outward 

 through the medullary ray cells, but this seems to be the exception 

 rather than the rule. This fact affords another of the character.s of 

 the mycelium of G. Ellmi which differentiates it from that of G. 

 biseptatum, also found on the white cedar. 



The distribution of the tracheids containing the hyphse, disposed 

 as above described, is for a transverse section of stem seven years 

 of age, as given in the accompanying table. The number of 

 tracheids in which hyphaj are found is estimated for one-half of 

 each annual ring. The widest annual ring is that of the third 

 year, and this increased width is closely correlated with the diseased 

 condition of the stem for that year : 



Table V. 



The brown areas are by far the largest and almost confluent Lu 

 the third annual ring of wood, and therefore only four continuous 

 radial strips of healthy xylem are to be found in the growth of the 

 third year. The enumeration for the seventh year is incomplete, 




490 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [May, 



because the stem was dead along the radius of stem chosen for the 

 computation of the tracheids. 



The mycelium in the cortex is well marked. Tlie hyphse grow 

 both into and through the cortical cells, and are found in the larger 

 and smaller intercellular spaces. Their direction of growth is less 

 definite than in the wood, and they, therefore, form a complex of 

 twisted and curved hyplue which run apparently through the medio- 

 cortex in an indefinite manner. The rounded enlargements of the 

 hyphal cells above mentioned are also found. 



Pathological Coxditioxs of Steji Induced by the Myce- 

 lium OF G. Ellisii. 



The pathological condition of the stem of white cedar induced 

 by the parasite are very different from those produced by the 

 mycelium of G. biHeptatum. It may be stated at the outset tliat 

 the diseased conditions are much more severe when the mycelium 

 of G. Ellisii is the pathological agent, although the swellings 

 never become so large and globose as those formed by the stimu- 

 lating influence of the mycelium of 6. biseptatum. The witches' 

 broom-like character of the malformations caused by G. Ellisii 

 have already been described (figs. 6, 8). Observations in the field, 

 after part of this paper had been written, reveal some characteristic 

 features of the disea.se not mentioned then. The disease, except in 

 young trees, seems if it attacks older trees, to be confined to the .short 

 lateral branches of the trees, as they form a pure growth in the 

 cedar swamps of New Jersey. Sometimes all of the larger branches 

 from the lower part of a tree to the top Avill be fasciated. The 

 l)ranches live for a long time before death finally ensues, and they 

 cousequently have a gnarled and knotted appearance which gives to 

 a large tree badly diseased an un.-ightly appearance. Birds, such 

 as the fish crow, take advantage of the Haltened, closely crowded 

 condition of the brauchlets to build their nests under cover of the 

 dense and crowded mass of leaves which forms a cloi^ely set crown of 

 foliage (fig. 6j. Tlie pliotographs of di.sea.sed lateral brandies 

 (figs. 6, 8), one of \Wiieh supports a nest of the-fish crow, show the 

 general appearance of the disesise when it ha~ i)rogressed to the 

 point of nivolving the whole branch. 



lu the seven-year-old stem above described the wood is badly 

 broken down, and in place of the healthy tracheids there are irregu- 




1902.] NATUKAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 491 



lar wedge-shaped masses of a rich brown color, consistiug of the 

 broken-do\yu cells, a mass of hyphie and a yellowish-browu matrix 

 formed as a waste product by the host cells Ihat are attacked by 

 the fungal parasite. These masses of dead tissue proceed radiately 

 outward. Their inner side is more or less evenly rounded and 

 conforms to the general concentric arrangement of the annual 

 rings (fig. 31). Their outer edge is more or less irregular, as the 

 disease progresses by proceeding outward along the wedges of wood 

 Ijetween the medullary rays (fig. 31). These diseased areas may 

 become more or less confluent as the pathological tissue increases in 

 amoimt by the spread of the fungus antagonistic to the host (fig. 

 31). Where these wedge-shaped brown areas touch the cortex the 

 cortical cells become involved, assuming a darker, richer brown color 

 with the death of the cells attacked. As these brown patches 

 increase in size, the hyphre which have grown out into them keep 

 pace with the dissolution of the healthy tissues, until, as before 

 mentioned, they form a complex of consideralile extent. 



The breaking down of the tracheids begins much in the same 

 manner as in the disease of the white cedar induced by G. hisep- 

 tatum, but the final result is different. The same springing loose 

 of a part of the lignified cell wall is observable (fig. 32). When 

 two adjacent tracheids have been thus affected, the middle lamella 

 is dissolved away and a canty, two tracheids in diameter, is 

 formed. If three or four adjoining tracheids are involved, the 

 space becomes larger (fig. 33). These spaces are filled with a 

 lirown residual material, and by the confluence of a number of 

 smaller brown diseased areas the wedged-shaped diseased spots are 

 formed, which later become fissured by the appearance of crack-like 

 intercellular spaces. In older stems, the appearance of the diseased 

 brown areas and the increase in width of the annual wood-rings 

 seem to be correlated. The fifth and sixth annual rings in a stem 

 eleven years old seem to be most involved, and here, with the excep- 

 tion of one small unaffected patch of tissue, the brown tissue forms 

 a continuous baud of variable thickness and pathological appear- 

 ance about the stem. The spring wood of the sixth year here 

 seems to he most involved. From this ring arms of diseased wood 

 radiate out through the seventh, eighth, ninth, and on one side of 

 the stem to the cortex through the eleventh and last annual ring of 

 wood. An enumeration of the nimiber of tracheids in a radial row 




492 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[May, 



from tlie fifth outward is presented in tabular form, as showing the 

 variation and increase iu size of the several annual rings of wood 

 in the abnormally developed tissues of the stem. The variation iu 

 the size, shape and color of the tracheids is a peculiarity of the 

 twelve-year-old stem studied. These variations are most marked 

 in the fourth and the eighth annual rings. The tracheids of the 

 fourth annual ring of wood are thicker than the normal, and of a 

 decided yellow color. Those of the eighth annual ring are deciil- 

 edly variable in shape. Some of the tracheids are circular iu cross 

 section, others are elliptical, while others are rectangular and more 

 or less irregular. This departure from the normal structure of the 

 tracheids is directly traceable, the writer believes, to the stimulation 

 produced by the presence of the fungus in the tissues of the host 

 plant. 



Table VI. 



A comparison, however, of the width of the several annual rings 

 of older and yotmger .stems shows that the increase in the number 

 of tracheids is marked, especially in the immediate neighborhood of 

 the hyphie. There is, however, not that marked incroa.<e wliich is 

 noted for the stems abnormally swollen i\v the action of the myce- 

 lium of Gymnosporangium biseptatum. The same brown patches 

 of pathological tissue are seen in branches an inch and a ((uartcr in 

 diameter. Here, if the disease is confined more especially to the 

 smaller branches, the browu areas are more rounded and apjiear as 

 isolated brown specks when a cross-sectiou is made. The smaller 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 493 



brandies, if early infected, are more badly diseased, as evidenced by 

 the larger size and couflnent condition of the dead tissues, than the 

 heavier branches, if infection takes place after tlie branch has reached 

 considerable size. The wriier has no evidence that the disease 

 spreads down into the wood of the older portion of the branch 

 from the smaller branches by the longitudinal growth of the 

 hyphse, although it is within the range of probability that this 

 downward growth does take place. 



Concluding Remarks. 



That tlie metabolic activities of the cells invaded by the mycelia 

 of I he two parasites above described are changed from the normal 

 condition is proved by the accumulation of material iu the trach- 

 eids and medullary ray cells influenced by the presence of the 

 fungi. The nature of these accumulated substances has already 

 been discussed. Not only are the metabolic activities of the host 

 cells altered, but the cambium in which the mycelia lives is stimu- 

 lated to increased divisional activity, and this stimulation mav exert 

 itself to some distance. Towusend'-^ has shown that " the influence 

 of an irritation, due to cutting or other injur}-, is capable of acting 

 through a distance of several hundred millimeters." It would 

 seem, therefore, that jilauts that are victims to jarasitic fungi may 

 possibly be influenced as if they were woiuided. How this 

 increased activity of the host cells expresses itself in the increase 

 in the amount of wood and bast has already been discussed. It 

 appears that the fmigi perennate in the wood of the canker, form- 

 ing there a loose open reticulum, much like a coarse fish-net, and 

 that thev cause an alteration in the activities of the cells, obtaining: 

 for themselves thereby a suflicient amount of food for continued 

 slow growth. The hyphte which are instrumental iu the formation 

 of the swellings clearly reside iu the wood cambium and adjacent 

 soft bast cells, being able to draw upon the supplies of that part of 

 the mycelium which has lived longest in the stem. It appears 

 then that the mycelium of the wood was once as active as the 

 mycelium of the cambium, and that as the permanent tracheids and 

 medullary ray cells were formed the A>alls of the hyphiB increased 



^*TowNSEXD, The Correlation of Growth Under the lutiueuce of 

 Injuries, Annals of Botany, XI, pp. 509-532 (18a7). 




494 PKOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [^layj 



correspondingly in thickness, and maintained for some time a slow- 

 growth through tlie wood and medullavy ray cells. 



We have these changes iu the structure and metabolism of the 

 cells of white cedar paralleled by examples recorded by other 

 botanists. Halsted*' states that " one of the most striking instances 

 of starch localization is found iu the leaves of ordinary corn that 

 are iufested with the smut {Udilago maydis D.C. ). Pieces of 

 leaves that were more or less distorted by nodules and projections of 

 the smut-beariug tissue .... were placed iu the iodine, when 

 the bhie color began almost immediately (o appear iu the swollen 

 tissue." Again: " An interesting study iu this direction was 

 made of the cedar galls of Gi/)nno!<porangiu)n macropus Lk., where 

 the starch is packed away iu the enlarged host cells to their utmost 

 capacity, and thin sections through the centres of the large galls 

 display a neat fan -shaped appearance after they had been iu iodine 

 for a few minutes. The ordinary wood of the gall-bearing twigs 

 show with the same treatment only a small amount of starch " 

 Other cases of this influence of parasite upon host might be cited, 

 but the illustrations mentioned above sufficiently show that in most 

 instances the effect is a marked one, not only altering the chemical 

 nature of the cell (»uteuts, but also the activity of the process of 

 cell division with the formation of additional tissue elements. 



Tabular Cujii'arison of the Several Species of the 

 Genus Gymnospoeaxgiuji. 



In the table on pages 498-501 an attempt is made to present tlic 

 characters of the several species of the genus Gymiwsporanr/iuni, so 

 that a comparison of the structure of these fungi can readily be 

 made. 



Summary. 



1. The white cedar, Oupressm thyoides, Is a stately tree, ranging 

 from southerh Maine to northern Florida and westward to ^lissi.s- 

 sippi, and is not subject to any very serious disea.se. 



2. There are nineteen species of fungi that live, saprophytically 

 or parasitically, upon this tree. 



"'Halsted, Starch Distribution as Affected by Fungi, Bulletin of 

 the Torrey Botanical Club, XXV, p. 573. 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 495 



3. Only two species of fungi, viz., Gymnosporangium hisep- 

 tatum Ellis and G. Elllsii Berk., may be considered as serious 

 parilsiles. 



4. Historically these two funguses have been studied largely 

 from a morphologic standpoint, and not Irom a physiologic or his- 

 tologic point of view. 



5. Wornle and Tubeuf give the most satisfactory accounts of 

 the several known species of Gijmnosjjorangium aud the diseases 

 produced by them. 



6. The two diseases are prevalent in the cedar swamps of New 

 Jersey, where Cupressus thyoides makes an almost pure stand of 

 timber. 



7. Sections of the swellings caused by the fungi were made by 

 means of a hand-plane and stained with aniline-green, Bismarck- 

 bro\vu, and a double stain consisting of methyl-green and acid- 

 fuchsiu. 



8. The swellings produced by Gymnosporangium biseptatum a''e 

 usually nodose, increasing year by year, until they may be brain - 

 like in appearance and six to eight inches in diameter. 



9. Those produced by G. Ellisii are never so thick, but the 

 branches involved radiate out in a fan -like manner, assuming the 

 character and appearance of witches' brooms. 



10. The normal stem structure is described as a means of throw- 

 ing light upon the abnormal structures produced by the fungi. 



11. The stem structure in general is that common to other coni- 

 fers, but the resin canals are confined to the bast and cortex. 



12. The number of tracheids produced normally in a radial line 

 are set forth in tabular form, as an expression of the variation in 

 size of the several annual rings. 



13. The environmental conditions are shown to have considerable 

 influence in determining the spread of the diseases. 



14. Sphagnum bogs are cold because the winter cold persists well 

 on into the summer. 



15. This persistence of the winter cold retards the development 

 of the tree each year until summer is w'ell advanced, and this 

 retardation, it is thought, is reflected iu the uniformity in size of 

 the tracheids, there being little well-marked autumn wood. 




496 PEOCEEDIKGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



16. The retardation of growth, with the pe.'-sistence of the win- 

 ter's cold in the bog, also exerts an appreciable influence on the 

 growth of the parasitic fungi, which cause the canker-like swellings 

 on'lhe white cedav. 



17. It is assumed that the perennial habit and slow growth of 

 the mycelia are direct expressions of the inhibitory effect of the 

 cold environment. 



18. In considering the pathological trausfornialions, a compari- 

 son is instituted with the disease produced by Da^i/soypha reslharia 

 in Abies balsamea. 



19. By means of a table it is shown that the number of tracheids 

 in a swelling produced by one of the fungi is vastly greater than in 

 a normal stem of the same age. 



20. The increased activity of tlic phellogen is also a marked 

 feature of the disease due to Gymnonporanr/ium bkeptatum. 



21. Several additional well-marked layers of cork are laid down 

 as a result of this activity- of the cork cambium. 



22. As the disease progresses these cork layers begin to slough 

 off. 



2.3. The formation of the excrescences through the death of the 

 cambium in part, and the attempt made on the part of the host to 

 repair the damage are minutely described. 



24. Pathologic^al changes in the wood due to G. blseptatum result 

 in the plugging of the tracheids and the final cracking of the sap- 

 wood when the parasitic attack has been long maintained. 



25. The number of plugged tracheids is shown by an enumera- 

 tion to be extremely variable in the several annual rings of 

 wood. 



26. The material filling the plugged traclieids in the disease 

 caused by G. bL^eptatum is supposed to be fungus gamboge, from a 

 number of chemical reactions obtained for the purpose of deciding 

 this question. 



27. Re^in is also present in the most diseased areas, as deter- 

 mined by the copper acetate (I'nverdorben-Franchimont ) reaction. 



28. The mycelium of G. bUeptatum is described as a loose net. 

 The hyphse penetrate the wood, cambium and phlwm cells, spread- 

 ing longitudinally aud horizontally. 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 497 



29. The hyplue in giowiug from Iraclieid to tracheifl take advan- 

 tage of the bordered pits, the middle lamella of which disappears? 

 by ferment action. 



30. The relation of the hyphiB to the host cells is carefully 

 described. 



31. The mycelium of G. Ellisii is more copious than that of 

 6. biseptatum. It also grows through the cortex, bast and wood. 



32. The hyphaj of this fungus are characterized by the ventri- 

 cose swellings produced, and by the fact that they grow into the 

 intercellular spaces of the brown patches of diseased tissue formed 

 in the wood. 



33. The hyphie of G. Ellkii grow through the lumen of the 

 tracheids and from traclieid to Iracheid by means of the bordered 

 pits, much as in the other fungus described. 



34. The distribution of the tracheids containing hyphse is pre- 

 sented in tabular form. 



35. The pathological conditions induced by G. Ellisii are more 

 severe at first than those caused by G. biseptatum. 



36. Patches of diseased tissue are found in the stems of white 

 cedar as brown spots of a wedge sh.ape. These brown areas become 

 more or less confluent until they may involve the circumference of 

 the stem. Inio these brown jiatches the hyphie grow. 



37. An enumeration of the tracheids in the diseased branches is 

 also pres-ented in tabular form, as a means of comparing the size of 

 normal and diseased stems. 



38. The belief is expressed, in conclusion, that the fungi cause 

 marked metabolic changes in the stem, accompanied by the accumu- 

 lation of resins and other substances, products of increased cell 

 activity. 



39. A tabular comparison of the several species of the genus 

 Gyinnosporangium is presented to show the relationship of the 

 fungi studied to other species of wide distribution. 



40. The bibliography details the papers consulted in the prepara- 

 tion of this paper by the writer. 



H-3 




498 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[May, 




1902.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



499 




500 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[May, 



Name of Fun- Qymnospo- OymnoBpo- 

 gus. rangium con- rangium fus- 



icum D. C. I cum D. C. 

 {0.juniperin-{G. sabina 

 um Winter.) Winter.) 



Gymnospo-^Gymno spo- 

 rangium El- rangium clav- 

 Ztsii Berk. i ipes Cooke 

 and Peck. 



Teleutospores. 15-18,« diam., 15-33// diam., 10-16^ diam., '23-38 /i diam., 

 48-58^ long, 38-53^ long,, 75-190// long, | 40-60;/ long, 

 two-celled, two-celled, three to four- two-celled, 

 constricted at constricted at celled, some- constricted at 



Name of Rcbs- 

 telia. 



Intermediate 

 Hosts 



septum. 



Rastelia cor- 

 nuta (Gmel), 

 Fr. 



septum. 



times one] septum, 

 to five-celled. 



Bmstelia can- Rmstelia trans- 

 eeU(ita{3 acq.) formuns Ell. 

 Rebent. i 



Rosstelia au- 

 rantiaca Pk. 



G eo g ra phic 

 Distribution. 



Sorbus aucu- Crattegus oxy- Pirus malus, iPirusmalus, 

 acantha, \Pirus arbuii-' Pirus arbuH- 



paria, 



Sorbus aria, 



C'ydonia vul- 

 garis, 



Amelanchier 

 canadensis, 



Pirus malus, 

 etc. 



Pirus cominu-' folia. 



folia, 

 Amelanchier 

 canadensis. 



Massachu- 

 setts, New 

 York, South 

 Carolina, 

 Northern 

 and Central 

 Europe. 



M ass a c hu - Mas sa c hu - E. Massachu- 

 setts, Mary- setts, New' setts. New 

 land, Europe.] Jersey. York, New 



Jersej', Penn- 

 s y 1 V a n i a , 

 North and 

 South Caro- 

 lina. 




1902.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



501 




502 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



BlBLIOGIlAPHT. 



1865, Oersted. Botanische Zeitung, j). 291. 



1874, Ellis. Bulletin of the Toney Botanical Club, V, p. 40. 



1874-75, Berkeley. GreviUea, III, p. 5G. 



1877, KoKNiCKE. MykologiscLe Beitiiige, Hedwigia. XVI, p. 22. 



1880, Farlow. The Gymiiosiiorangia or Cedar Apples of the United 



States. Anniversary Memoirs of the Boston Societj- of Natural His 



tory, pp. 3-38, Pis. 1 and 2. 



1886, SoRAUER. llandbuch der Pflanzenkrankheiten, Zweiter Theil. 

 Die parasitiiren Kranklieiten. 



1887, Thaxter. On Certain Cultures of Gymnosporangiuni, with Notes 

 on RoEstelitr. Proc. Amer. Acad. Arts and Sci., XXII, p. 259. 



1887-1888, Sanford. Microscopical Anatomy of the Common Cedar 

 Apple (Gvmnosporangium macropus). Annals of Botany, I, pp. 

 26:^268, with PI. XHI. 



1888, Plowright. Experimental Observations on Certain British Het- 

 ertecious Urediues, The (4vmnosporangia. Journal Linnajan Society 

 of Botany, XXIV, pp. 93-100. 



188S, . Gymnosporangium macropus. Arkansas, Report of 



Experiment Station, pp. 127-130, tig. 3. 



1889, Thaxtek. Notes on Cultures of Gymnosporangium made in 1887 

 and 1888. Botanical Gazette, XIV, p. 163. 



1890, Thaxtek. Bust of Pears. Annual Report Connecticut Agricul- 

 tural Experiment Station (New Haven), 1890, p. 98. 



1891, Jones. Gvmnosporangium macropus on Apples. Vermont 

 Report, 1891, p. 133. 



1891, TiiAXTER. The Connecticut Species of Gymnosporangium. An- 

 nual Report Connecticut Asricultural Experiment Station, New 

 Haven, i)p. 101-165. Connecticut State Bulletin, 107, Ajiril, 1891, 

 p. 6. 



1892, Alwood. Gvmnosporangium macropus. Nature and Treatment. 

 Virginia Station Bulletin, 17, June, 1892, pp. 59-63. 



1893, TuREUK. Infeklionen mit Gj-mnosporangium Arten. Forstl. 

 Naturw. Zcitselir., p. 85. 



1894, Halsted. Gvmnosporangium macropus. New Jersey Station 

 Report, 1894, p. "324. 



1894, KixxEY. Gymnosporangium macropus. Rhode Island Station 



Report, 1894, {). 187, fig. 3. 

 1894, Hartig, tr. Somerville. Text-Book of the Diseases of Trees, 



pp. 51, 117, 157-104, 179. 



1894, WiiuNi.E. Anatomische Untersnchung der durch Gymnosporan- 

 gien-Arten lurvorgerufenen Missbildungen. Forstl. Naturw. 

 Zeilsehr. Inaugural Dissertation. Botanisches Centralblatt, 1894, 

 LX, iip. 280-283. 



1895, Taft. Gymnosporangium macropus. Michigan Station Bulletin, 

 121, April, 1895, p. 22. 



1895, TuKEi p. Pllanzenkrankheiten, pp. 396-415. 



1896. Fkaxk. Die Pilzparasitiiren Kranklieiten der Pflanzen, II, pp. 

 176-184. 



1896, Undeuwood and Earlk. The Distribution of the Sjiecies of 

 Gymnosiiorangium in the South. Botanical t3a/.ettc, XXII, p. 255. 



1897, EsGLEit niid Praxtl. Gvmnosporangium. Die naturlicben 

 Pflanzenfamilien, I Theil. 1 Abt.,«* pp. 50-53. 



1899, Czatek. Zur Biologie der holzbewohnenden Pilze. Ber. d. 

 deutsch. hot. Gesellsch.. XVII, p. Ififi. 



1900, II. vox ScHUEXK. A Disease of Taxodium distichum known as 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 503 



Peckiness. Eleventh Annual Report Missouri Botanical Garden, 



pp. 23-77, with six plates. 

 1900, H. VON ScHEENK. Two Diseases of the Red Cedar. U. S. Division 



of Vegetable Physiology and Pathology, Bulletin, 21, pp. 22, vrith 



seven plates. 

 1900, H. VON ScHKENK. Some Diseases of New England Conifers. 



U. S. Division of Vegetable Physiology and Pathology, Bulletin, 25, 



pp. 56. with fifteen plates. 

 1900, H. VON ScHiiENK. Fungous Diseases of Forest Trees. YearBoolv 



United States Department of Agriculture, 1900, pp. 199-210, Pis. 



XXI-XSV. 



1900, Shikai. Ueber der genetischen Zusainmenhang zwischen Rces- 

 telia Koraensis P. Ilenn. und Gymnosporaugium japonicum Sydow. 

 Zeitschrift fiir Pllanzenkrankheiten, X, pp. 1-5. 



1901, H. VON ScHRENK. A Disease of the Black Locust (Robinia 

 pseudacacia, L). Twelfth Annual Report Missouri Botanical Gar- 

 den, pp. 21-31, with three plates. 



1901, AVaud. Disease in Plants. London. 



1901, Atkinson. Studies of Some Shade Tree and Timber Destroying 

 Fungi. Cornell University Agricultural Experiment Station Bulle- 

 tin, 193, pp. 199-235, fig. 56. 



1902, Anderson. Dasyscypha resinaria causing Canker Growth on 

 Abies balsamea in Minnesota. Bulletin of the Torrey Botanical 

 Club, XXIX, pp. 23-34, with Plates 1 and 2. 



EXPLANATION OF PLATES XXII AND- XXIII. 



Figs. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5. — Abnormal swellings on the white cedar (Cupressus 

 thyoides) caused by mycelium of fungus, Gymnosporaugium biseptatum. 



Fig. 6. — Larger gnarled, diseased condition of the branches of white 

 cedar produced by G. Elliaii. 



Fig. 7. — Small swelling on twig of white cedar ])roduced by the 

 mycelium of G. biseptatum. 



Fig. 8. — Straight witches' broom produced by the perennial mycelium 

 of a fungus, Gymnosporangium Kllisii. 



Fig. 9. — Normal tracheids of wliite cedar in transverse section. 



Fig. 10. — Cambium and adjacent cells from a normal stem. 



Fig. 11. — Normal resin canal from bark of white cedar, showing resin. 



Fig. 12. — Medullary ray cells and tracheids from a small abnormal 

 swelHng, such as the photograph depicted in fig. 7. 



Fig. 13. — Diseased wood and excrescence on a young stem of white 

 cedar. 



Fig. 14. — Same section viewed entire. The depressed areas represent 

 spots where the cambium has been killed. 



Fig. 15. — Medullary ray cell from a longitudinal section, showing 

 appearance of brown contents. 



Fig. 16. — Tracheids filled with material under the stimulation of the 

 mycelium of G. biseptatum. 



Fig. 17. — Tracheids situated between two medullary ray cells, show- 

 ing those plugged with fungus gamboge. 



Fig. 18. — Cambial cells and outer wood tracheids, showing the 

 presence of hj'phae in cross-section. 



Fig. lO.^Tlie same much enlarged. 



Fig. 22. — Tracheids and medullary ray cells from the wood of white 

 cedar, showing the course of the horizontal and longitudinal hyphse. 



Fig. 23. — Medullary ray cells, illustrating the manner in which a 

 hypha penetrates the cell wall. 




504 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF Play, 



Fig. 24. — Section of stem diseased by the presence of fungus, Gymno- 

 sporangium ElUsii. The course of tlie hyphre from tracheid to tracheid 

 is shown. The Lyphse in several places are seen to grow through the 

 bordered pits. 



Fig. 24a. — Course of a hypha which grows through the bordered pits. 

 Notice that the hyphae become lens-shaped in the cavity of the bordered 

 pit. 6. MHisii. 



Fig. 25. — Hypha enlarged, showing the nodose or ventricose enlarge- 

 ment of the fungal cells. O. ElUsii. 



Fig. 26.— Details of hypha of G. ElUsii. 



Fig. 27.^The same from the wood. 



Fig. 28. — Bent and twisted hypha? growing in the brown areas of 

 broken-down tissue, as shown also in fig. 29. 



Fig. 29. — Spores (several forms) ot Gymnosporangium biseptattim 

 (after Tubeuf). 



Fig. 30. — Spores (uni- and multicellular) of 0. ElUsii (after Tubeuf). 



Fig. 31. — Transverse section of diseased white cedar stem, showing 

 the diseased brown areas in the wood which have become more or less 

 confluent. 



Fig. 32. — Tracheids from diseased wood of white cedar, showing the 

 sprung lignified cell wall. 



Fig. 33. — Commencement of brown wedge-shaped areas of diseased 

 tissue. Notice the abnormal size of the cells filled with granular matter. 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 505 



June 3. 

 Mr. Arthur Erwin Brown, Vice-President, in the Chair. 



Twelve persons present. 



The death of Greorge S. Schively, M.D. , a member, Sept. 28, 

 11101, was announced. 



Phijlogeny of the Species of Fulgur with Remarks on an Abnor- 

 mal Form of Fulgur canaliculatum, and Sexual Dimorphism in 

 Fulgur canca. — Mr. Burnett Smith communicated some prelim- 

 inary residts of a phylogenetic study of the genus Fulgur. The 

 ornamentation on the whorls shows that changes occur in going from 

 the protocouch to the adult whorl. In Fulgur the changes in orna- 

 mentation agree in general with those observed by the Countess 

 von Linden' in dealing with marine gastropods in general. As in 

 most gastropods where the early whorls can be studied, transveree 

 ridges occur fii-st, except in certain forms where acceleration has 

 taken place. These are followed by a spiral row of nodes or spines, 

 which in old age are apt to degenerate into a shoulder keel. ^lodi- 

 fications of these stages may occur, but they can usually be detected. 

 In the ^Miocene a tendency developed which resulted in the canal- 

 iculate division of Fulgur. This division is probably an offshoot 

 from the primitive non-canaliculate stock, of which F. carica is the 

 modern representative. On the following page is a rough scheme 

 showing the probable ancestry of the different races. 



The pyrum group .seems to have sprung from a Fulgur canalicu- 

 latum precursor which had transverse ridges on the whorl following 

 the protoconch. In fact there is a Pliocene shell in the Academv's 

 collection which tends toward fulfilling the requirements of this 

 precursor. In all the young shells of the recent F. canaliculatum 

 which I have examined, nodes occur on the whorl next to the pro- 

 toconch and the transverse ridges are absent. This is probably a 

 case of acceleration. In the non-caualiculate Fulgurs the recent 

 F. carica shows well all the stages of ornamentation, from whorls 

 with transverse ridges to whorls in which the spines degenerate into 

 a shoulder keel. In the Caloosahatchie Pliocene both canaliculate 

 and non- canaliculate divisions gave rise to smooth, bulbous^var- 



> Zeit. wiss. Zool., LXI, pp. 261-317. 




506 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMTf OF [JunC, 



ieties. Mr. Joseph Willcox' seems to consider that the bulbous J^. 



■ TV. IToflrner 2'>«e Institute, I-II, December, 1889. ii. 51. 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 507 



the oruameulalion it is more likely that F. contrarium was derived 

 from a precursor of F. pervermun, of which the modern spinose form 

 of that species is the living representative. F. contrarium would, 

 accordiui; to the speaker's judgment, be a side branch, and not in 

 the dirf«t line of ancestry. Some sinistral Miocene Fulgurs, after 

 losing- the primitive ornamentation, develop spines again on the 

 roun<led adult whorl, producing a form much like the modern typi- 

 cal F. perversum. A tendency similar to this has been noted in 

 Miocene dextral shells of the non -canaliculate division F. maximum. 



The abnormal specimen of Fulgur canaliculatum exhibited was 

 found on the beach at Longport, ?^ew Jersey, on March 18, 1902, 

 after a storm. Some accident occurring when the shell was young 

 has caused it to grow so that the shoulder angle, so characteristic 

 of the species, has disappeared, and we get a shell with a rounded 

 whorl much like Fulgur pyrum in appearance. The break in the 

 shoulder occurred on a whorl which possessed the nodes character- 

 istic of the earlier whorls of F. amallculatum. After the break 

 tliere is apjiareully an attempt to reproduce these nodes on the 

 rounded surface of the whorl. The faint spiral ridge which occurs 

 well over to the left on the last whorl has evidently been caused b}' 

 another accident. On examining the soft parts of this specimen it 

 appears to be identical with the normal male specimens, except that 

 the shoulder angle is not present on the mantle. 



On examining a normal male Fulgur caiialiculafum, it will be 

 seen that the backward folded penis lies directly under tlie shoulder 

 angle. In the abnormal specimen the penis, as well as the other 

 organs of the mantle cavity, all seem to be intact. The absence of 

 the shoulder angle does not seem to be connected in any way with 

 the uuderlj'ing reproductive organ. It is interesting to note that 

 the shoulder angle occure equally well developed in the female of 

 F. canaliculatum, though in this case it corresponds with no under- 

 lying organ. No peculiarity in the mantle edge or other soft parts 

 of this abnormal specimen, accounting for the change in shell form 

 and ornamentation which has occurred, had been discovered. 



During the past winter, while searching for the young shells of 

 our recent New Jersey Fulgurs, a series of J^. carica was obtained 

 which seems to exhibit sexual dimorphism. The adult males are all 

 smaller than the adult females. Both males and females have about 

 6i— 7 whorls, and show the adult characters of the swelling on the 

 branchial siphon and the degeneracy of the spines on the last 

 whorl. 



Accounting for the Depth of the Wyoming Buried Valley. — -Mr. 

 Benjamin Sjiitii Lyman spoke on certain geological features of 

 the Wyoming valley in Pennsylvania. It has long been matter for 

 speculation and serious practical inquiry how the ancient Susque- 

 hanna valley, buried under glacial rubbish near Wyoming and 




508 PEOCEEDINCJS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



Wilkes-Barre, could be at least 110 feet deeper than the apparently 

 lowest possible outlet of the same valley near Bloomsburg, and 

 ninety feet deeper than the one near Sunbnry, as pointed out by 

 Stale Geologist Lesley in the Pennsylvania .State Geoloirical Report 

 G 7, 1883, p. XV, and by Assistant Geologist Prof. l" C. White, 

 at p. 26. Later, in the Summary Final Report, Vol. Ill, Pt. I, 

 1895, p. 2019, Assistant Geologist A. D. W. Smith gives a still 

 greater depth recently found in the buried valley, at two miles 

 below Wilkes-Barre, namely, 220 feet below the present Blooms- 

 burg outlet, and 200 feet below the Sunbury one. The complete 

 understanding of the buried valley in question is of the weightiest 

 practical importance to the operators of the Wyoming anthracite 

 basin ; for the driving of coal mines unexpectedly into the glacial 

 rubbish full of water has repeatedly caused loss of life and prop- 

 erty, sometimes on a large scale. The consequent consciousness of 

 danger and uncertainty about its conditions exact great caution ; 

 and, perhaps, the guarding against unknown possibilities may occa- 

 sion great losses that might to some extent be avoided if only the 

 circumstances could be belter understood. Several theories have, 

 therefore, been devLsed iu explanation of the observed facts; but 

 none have proved to be at all satisfactory. It has, for example, 

 been suggested that the glacier itself, before retreating and leaving 

 the rubbish, may have scooped out the valley to that depth. But 

 Lesley and others have repeatedly pointed out how insignificant is 

 and must bo the erosive action of glaciers; and, furthermore, it 

 appears highly improliable that a glacier could not only scoop out 

 a deep valley, but carry the vast amount of eroded material over 

 the lip of the basin. In this case, too, that lip, near Blooinsburg, 

 is about twenty miles beyond the nearest point ever reached by the 

 glacier. In 188.3, Lesley, in the passage just cited, was momenta- 

 rily |KM-suaded that there was no escape from admitting that the 

 result had been accomplished by " subglacial erosion — rivers beneath 

 the ice sheet, charged with angular drift materials, plowing deep 

 valley-grooves in the softer coal measures." But in the .S'HJiiHinri/ 

 Final Report, Mr. Smith states that I^esley " now regards his 

 theory of subglacial erosion as wholly inadequate." Indeed, it 

 would be hard to conceive how subglacial rivers could have main- 

 tained an erosive current at .such a depth below the outlet of the 

 valley. Mr. Smith cites the opinion of " ai least one jirominent 

 mining engineer," that the buried valley " has no connected 

 channel, but that the deep places are formed by a series of pot 

 holes." It is true, pot holes arc a subordinate, glacial feature of 

 the buried valley, and extend below its bottom forty feet or more 

 into the coal measures, as described by Ashburuer in the State 

 Geological Report for 1885. But it is hardly conceivable that 

 excavations on so grand a scale, as hundreds of bore lioles have 

 shown the buried valley to be, should have been effected, like pot 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 509 



holes, by rapid cuneuts of water carryiuo; the materials com- 

 ruiuuted by means of swiftly whirling pebbles quite beyond the 

 limits of such enormousl}- large hollows. The immensity of the 

 currents required for such trenjendous action is wholly inadmissible. 

 It is hardly necessary to discuss the extrayagant idea that the 

 waters of the now buried yalley escaped lo the sea through some 

 originally deep subterranean creyice or channel, now hidden farther 

 than eyer out of sight by the glacial accumulations. The idea has 

 been resorted to merely from the absence of any other thoroughly 

 plausible explanation, in view of the evident impossibility of 

 hollowing out a valley and carrying off the excavated material 

 over a distant border two hundred feet higher than the bottom. 

 What seems, however, to be an extremely simple, natural and prob- 

 able solution of the problem has hitherto been apparently allo- 

 gether overlooked. The crumpling of the rock beds into folds by 

 the contraction of tin; earth's crust in cooling must necessarily 

 have been not a mere momentary movement, but in general an 

 extremely slow one, continuing for many ages, perhaps, to be sure, 

 intermittently, and may probably still be going on, even in some 

 very ancient l)asin?. A comparatively trivial amount of such 

 action in the couple of hundred thousand years since glacial times 

 woidd be anqile to effect the obser\'ed results. For, if the Wyo- 

 ming basin had thereby been depressed by only the wholly insig- 

 nificant average amount of half a foot in a thousand years, and 

 the rock saddles, or anticlinals, near Bloomsburg and Sunbury 

 elevated at the same rate, the whole ob.served residt would by this 

 time be accomplished, and the old glacial valley would be found, 

 as it is, a couple of hundred feet lower than those lowest present 

 outlets. A liberal allowance, too, can erisily be made for the 

 degree to which those outlets have been eroded since the glacial 

 action, and for the fact that they are not at the very summit of the 

 anticlinals. Yet the movement would be a trifling one. In fact, 

 the observed phenomena appear to be simply corroboration of what 

 might with the utmost reason have been expected to occur ; and the 

 explanation is not by any means an arbitrary supposition of 

 regional elevation or depression, conveniently imagined in order to 

 suit facts apparently difficult to elucidate. 



June 10. 

 Mr. Arthue Erwin Brown, Vice-President, in the Chair. 

 Ten persons present. 



Prof. Robert Collett, of the University of Christiania, was dele- 

 gated to represent the Academy at the meeting commemorating the 

 services of Niels Henrik Abel to mathematical science. 




510 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [July, 



June 17. 

 Mr. Benjamin Smith Lyman iu the Chair. 

 Seven persons present. 



June 24. 

 Mr. Arthur Erwin Brown, Vice-President, in the Chair. 



Six persons present. 



Mr. Alexander MacElwee and Mr. John Vinton Dahlgreu were 

 elected members. 



July 1. 

 Mr. Arthur Erwin Brown, Vice-President, iu the Chair. 

 Seven persons present. 



July 8. 

 Mr. Charles Morris in the Chair. 



Nine persons present. 



The deaths of R. S. McCombs, ^l.D., and Samuel K. Ashhnret, 

 ^r.D., were announced. 



July 15. 

 ^Ir. Arthur Erwin Brown, Vice-PresideuJ, iu the Chair. 



Six persons present. 



Southwestern Land SnaiU. — Dr. Pilsbky siwke of tlie land 

 mollu^ks collected by Mr. James H. Ferriss during February of 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. .511 



this year in Indiau Territory, Texas, New Mexico and Arizona, 

 m the Huachuea mountains, Conservatory canon, Ariz., li^'ino• 

 specimens of Helix levettei of Bland were taken. Thev have been 

 dissected by Mr. Vanatta, and prove to belong to the'genus A..h- 

 mimella, having the genitalia characteristic of that group The 

 following species were also taken in Arizona • 



Sonorella rowelli (Newc). Patagonia mountains and Sanford 

 '^omrella riramdcdmima Pils. Spring canon, Ft. Huachuea.' 

 Huacliuca mountains. 



Pyramidula striateUa T Anth. ). Huachuea mountains. 

 Vitreaindentata (Say). Conservatory canon, Huachuea moun- 

 tains and Patagonia mountains. 



'J Pynmidula" siriaom huachumna u. subsp. Conservatory 

 canon Huachuea mountains. Shell with the general contour of 

 typical sb-ignsa, liyid, fleshy -corneous, mottled with white, which 

 may predominate beneath: a narrow brown or purple- brovn belt 

 revolves a short distance below the subangular periphery. Nep - 

 onic whorls spirally striated. Umbilicus broadly open. ' AJt 10 

 diam. -in mm., width of umbilicus 7 mm 



Four or five shells out of about twenty-five collected are nearly 



mform corneous brown. The specimens were received alive, and 



berTr R r"?f 'J^^t the species is no Pyramid^da, but a mem - 



aJl "r^r .,^''^, P- '"-^aosa series of Helices constitutes 



aneiu gemusof Hehmla- having no affinity to the Patuloid snails, 



ra?p ;s VT T"" ^- '^f '^'"-'^ (S^y)' ^"th its northwestern dark 

 race, IS a true Pyramidula, m spite of its resemblance to some of 

 ine stngnsa group. 



»Jol?'p^r 'T^''J'--' ^^''- ^''"'' ^"^-^^ Pulimulusdecdbatus 

 MhZu T ^°^''P''-^ '•'"^'*«« (Pf'-O. and at Colorado City, 



Mitchell county, Tex., were found Polygyra texasiana (Moric.) 

 Pohjgyra texasemis Pils. and Succinea luteola Old ^ 



PilT mJ p'™ °* ^^%y;"' '^'e^^li'ile beuweeu P. ivdianorum 



riK and P. roemeri (Pfr. ), was taken in the Indian Territory • 



Polygyra indmnorum liodernia. Shell similar in contour to 



P. roemer,, but always imperforate, with no parietal tooth, the 



moie drHn"/r'fl'f'-^'' '"•'^ less thickened within, the surface 

 noie disinctly finely striate, and with only faint traces of spiral 

 St .''^■'^^'"'^ '^^ ^- ^ndtanorum in the structure of the lip, but 



umW al rL-'" ''^' ^'^ t''^^' ""'' '' '-'S^^^'-^y ^^r-te, and the 

 Zr vn I I^ ? .'s less sunken. P. divesta is a much more coarsely 

 and uonglv striate shell. Alt. 18, diam. 9 mm.; whorls 4*^ 

 AJt. ]<..:,, diam. 8.7 mm.; whorls 4^. 



A V ?'p ' '^''u^ '^omitvy, Indian Territory. Types No. 83,281, 

 V, , ' '^'^^Jected by Mr. James H. Ferriss, 1902 



^Hxl T^ ''""", °^ '^'^ ■-'""^' t'^l^^" by Mr. Ferriss measures 

 18* mm. diam., and the smallest 16 mm. There is thus but little 




512 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [AugUSt, 



variation in size at the type locality, which is farther north than 

 P. roemeri has been found. The average diameter of fourteen aflult 

 shells is 17.2 mm. 



July 22. 

 Mr. Akthitr Eewix Brown, Viee-Pre.*idenl, in the Chair. 

 Sis pel-sons present. 



AUGDST 19. 

 Mr. Arthur Erwis Brown, Vice-Presidout, in the Chair. 

 Seven persons present. 



Papers under the following titles were presented for publication : 



" On Some Living and Fossil Snails of tlie Genus Plivsa found 

 at Las Vegas, N. i[.," by Ada Springer. 



"Additions to the Japanese Land Snail Fauna — VII," by 

 Henry A. Pilsbry. 



" Descriptions of the Lycosidm and OxyopidiB of Philadelphia 

 and its Vicinity," by Thomas H. Montgomery, Jr. 



" The Development of Gonionema Murbacliii," by Henry Farn- 

 ham Perkins. 



The deaths of Dr. James G. Cooper and of Mr. P^dward B. 

 Edwards, members, were announced. 



The following were ordered to be i)riuted : 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 513 



ON SOME LIVING AND FOSSIL SNAILS OF THE GENUS PHYSA, FOUND 

 AT LAS VEGAS, NEW MEXICO. 



BY ADA SPRINGER. 



In tlie Pleistocene beds of the Arroyo Pecos at Las Vegas, N. 

 M., are found many fluviatile and terrestrial shells, including the 

 genera Physa, ZdmncEa, Planorbis, Ancylus, Pisidium, Sphccrium, 

 Pyramidula, Succinea, Helicodiscus, Zonitoides, Pwpa, Bifidaria, 

 Pupoides and Vallonia. 



None of the species, so far as known, are extinct, but some 

 {e.g., Sphoeriiim magnum Sterki MS.) do not appear to exist any 

 longer in the vicinity ; while others exhibit varietal characters which 

 seem to distinguish them more or less from their li\nug representa- 

 tives. The genus Physa is repre.?ented in those beds by very 

 numerous individuals, differing considerably in form, but appar- 

 ently all pertaining to a single species. This species has been 

 identified at the National Museum as Physa humerosa Gould, and 

 there is no reason to doubt the identity. The original description 

 of P. humerosa, kindly copied by Mr. C. T. iSimpson, is as follows: 



" Testa .subrhomboidea, wolidula, polita, albida ; spira acuta; 

 anfrac. 5, taliulatis ; apertura .V ad f long, testa; adequans, postice 

 rotundata; labro expanso; columella vix plicala, callo.sa, fere 

 perforata. 



" Long ^ ad iV poll. ; Lit. f poll. Found by Thomas H. 

 Webb and by W. P. Blake, in the Colorado desert and at Pecos 

 river. 



" The broadly tabulated whorls, and the acute, elevated spire 

 and foldless pillar clearly distinguish this species. It is like 

 P. tabulafa Gould, and the variety figured by Haldeman as P. aii- 

 cillaria (fig. 7), which he regards as a monstrosity; the deep 

 suture and the simple columella distinguish it from that species. ' ' 



The species was first j)ublished in Proc. Bust. Soe. JSlat, Hist. , 



Vol. V, p. 126, February, 1855. The National Museum possesses 



two shells from Colorado lake, received originally from Blake 



(Lea Collection), which are supposed to be cotypes. Mr. Simpson 



33 




514 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [AugUSl, 



has kindly made a drawing of one of these. Dr. R. E. C. Stearns' 

 has figured a number of specimens of Physa from tlie Colorado 

 desert ; these are variously referred to humerosa, mexicana, etc. 



It would appear that the original hmnerofa was described from 

 fossil or subfossil shells, such as are common in the Southwest in 

 certain localities ; and furthermore, that the specimens taken as 

 typical represented a rather extreme variation. 



In the series from the Arroyo Pecos Pleistocene, some shells 

 agree well with the original humerosa, but these pass by insensible 

 gradations into forms which agree witli what has been regarded at 

 the National Museum and by Dr. Stearns as P. mexicana Philippi. 

 "\\niether these latter are the genuine mexicana may only be deter- 

 mined when it is possible to study topotypes with the soft parts. 



It was also found that many shells from the Arroyo Pecos could 

 not be separated fjom the common Physa still living at Las VegaS) 

 though there were certain average differences between the living 

 and fossil series. The living species has recently been described by 

 Cran dal I - as P/i(/.s« rhomboidea. Part of Crandall's original ma- 

 terial came from Las Vegas; he says the species " is distinguished 

 by its robust appearance, deep sutures, constricted aperture and 

 umbilicus, which will be found in a large part of them. It is more 

 like P. solida Philippi than any other species." It has impressed 

 spiral lines like P. gyrina, etc. 



For purposes of comparison large numbers of P. rhomboidea 

 were collected from a pool in the Gallinas river at Las ^''egas. The 

 variation in this series, all from the same place, was very great, 

 and selected specimens would readily be taken for distinct species. 

 However, upon close comparisons, no difference could be found in 

 the soft parts. Externally, the animals were the same; internally, 

 there were some variations, as in the length of the oesophagus, but 

 these were not correlated with the differences in the shells, and were 

 clearly not of specific value. The teeth were of the same type 

 in all. 



In order to determine whether tiie teeth could be used in dis- 

 tinguishing AVestern species of Physa, I examided P. inrgata (iould, 

 collected by Mr. Cockerell in Salt river, Tempe, Ariz., and a spe- 

 cies identical with what has been regarded at the National Museum 



' Pror. U. S. Natl. Museum, XXIV, Pis. XXIII, XXIV. 

 ''Nautilus, August, lUul, p. 44. 




1902.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



515 



as P. lordi, collected by Mr. C. H. T. Townsead in the Organ 

 mountains, N. M. It was found that these differed materially from 

 one another and from P. rhomboidea, and also from P. gyrina as 



Number of 

 specimens. 

 60 



Number of 



specimens. 



180 



50 



20 



1.3 1.4 1.5 l.C 1.7 1.8 1.9 2.0 



Ratio of length to breadth (average 



of whole series 1.5). 

 P. humerosa, Arroyo Pecos (fossil), 



145 specimens. 



150 



90 



fiO 



I I 



rv 



1.4 1.5 1.6 1.7 l.S 1.9 2.0 2.1 2.2 



Ratio of length to breadth (average 

 of whole series 1.8). 



P. rhomboidea, Gallinas river (re- 

 cent), 445 specimens. 



Frequency polygons. 



Fiff. 1. 



Fig. 3., 



figured by F. C. Baker. The following table indicates the nature 

 of the differences : 



Lateral teeth with denticles of two sizes, long ones alternating with 



short, .^1 



Lateral teeth with long denticles, not obviously of two sizes, . " 2 




516 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [AugUSt, 



1. Lateral teetli with the louger denticles very long; median 



teeth broad, with the denticles in one transverse series, 



P. " lordi" (New Mexico). 



Lateral teeth with the larger denticles short, median teeth 



with the denticles in three groups, .... P. gyrltia. 



2. Lateral teeth with the denticles seven in number (counting 



the apical one), straight or nearly so; median teeth with 



the denticles in tliree groups, .... P. rhomboidea. 



Lateral teetli witli the denticles five in uumher, very oblique; 



median teeth witli the denticles rather long, in one group, 



P. virgata. 



Individual teelh of any species may vary from the normal type, 

 but it is easy to determine the normal character. 



Figs. ] and 2 show the frequency polygons for the fossil (^\rroyo 

 Pecos) and recent (Gallinas river) series, based on the relation of 

 the length of the shell (o the breatlth — the most obviously variable 

 character. Ii is found that the mode, or point of greatest fre- 

 quency, is the same in both, but the skew is toward greater breadth 

 in the fossils, toward narrowness in the recent shells. It is con- 

 cluded (hat all the shells belong to one species, which ha.s been 

 evolving from a broader to a narrower form, perhaps in consequence 

 of a decreasing salinity or ilow of the water. Plate XXVI .shows 

 a series of each tyjie, including all the recognizable variations. 



The work represented by this paper has been done in the biologi- 

 cal laboratory of the Xormal University of Xew Mexico, under the 

 direction of Mr. T. D. A. Cockerell, who has also revised the 

 manuscript. 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 517 



ADDITIONS TO THE JAPANESE LAND SNAIL FAUNA-NO. VII. 

 BY HENRY A. PILSBRY. 



The description of new forms, chiefly .supplied by 3Ir. Y. 

 Hirase, is herein continued. The results of a critical examination 

 of the species of Eiq)hcedusa and Pseudonenia also find place, 

 together with a list of additions and errata to the ' ' Catalogue of 

 Japanese Clausiliidre, " published in these Proceedings for 1901. 



Section HEMIPH^DUSA Bttg. 



Group of C. aublunellata. 



Clausilia paohyspira n. sp. PI. XXVII, figs. 5, 6, 7. 



Shell club-.shaped, the spire very thick, the apex large, obtuse; 

 thin; yellowish corneou,s-white ; closely and finely striate, the 

 striation not perceptibly coarser on the last whorl. Whorl.< 8 to 

 8J, moderately convex, the last strongly tapering. Aperture ear- 

 shaped, oblique, rather narrow, extending above in a large, 

 retracted sinulus. Peristome free and continuous, convex, very 

 thick, white, notched at the position of the superior lamella, on 

 the right side of which there is sometimes a low tooth. Superior 

 lamella marginal, vertical, continuous with the spiral lamella, 

 which ascends to a position above the superior lamella. Inferior 

 lamella deeply receding, forming a strong fold within the throat, 

 vertically ascending, thick below, giving off a branch in the inter- 

 lamellar area, which curves again towards and crosses the inferior 

 lamella above. Subcolumellar lamella emerging, bounded by 

 grooves. Principal plica arising near the peristome ami penetrating 

 past the middle of the right side. Upper palatal plica short, 

 joined in the middle by a narrow, nearly straight, rather weak 

 lunella, which becomes very weak below, but terminates in a small 

 nodule. 



Length 13, diam. .3.2 to 3.3 mm. 



Clausilium (PI. XXVII, fig. 7) narrow and parallel sided, sym- 

 metrically tapering to the obtuse apex. 




518 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [AugUSt, 



Miyai, Kii. Types Xo. 83,389, A. N. S. P., from No. 954 of 

 Mr. Hirase's collection. 



Very distiuct by its thick, club-like shape, peculiar aperture, the 

 curved branch of the inferior lamella, and tlie palatal structure. 

 It has the pale color and fine sculpture of other members of the 

 group. 

 Clausilia kurozuensis n. sp. PI. XXVII, figs. 1, 2, 3, 4. 



Shell fusiform, moderately tapering to an tmusually thick apex, 

 vei'y thin ; white or grayish-white, the sj>eciniens being wholly 

 denuded of cuticle; for the same reason, only faint traces of fine 

 striation are discernible on the worn surface. Whorls about 9, but 

 .sliglilly convex, the last tapering, somewhat compressed. Aperture 

 somewhat obli(iue, piriform, with a well-defined sinulus. Peri- 

 stome white, continuous, reflexcd and much thickened. Superior 

 lamella short, oblique, marginal, continuous with the spiral lamella, 

 which penetrates to the middle of the ventral side. Inferior 

 lamella receding, visible as a strong fold in an oblique view, giving 

 off a branch toward the superior lamella ; within it is a high, 

 obliquely ascending plate, thickened l)elow, penetrating inward 

 decidedly deeper than the spiral lamella. Subcoluniellar lamella 

 emerging, bounded by grooves, but hardly extending to the lip- 

 edge. Principal ])lica visible in the throat, extending inward to a 

 lateral jiosition, being about one-third of a whorl long. Palatal 

 plica; four, nearly equal, the upper one less oblique (fig. 4), or 

 the lower two may be quite small and nodule-like (fig. 2). 



Length 20, diam. 4.7 mm. 



Length 17.(>, diam. 4.2 mm. 



Clausilium (PI. XXVII, fig. 3) narrow and parallel-sided, 

 evenly tapering on both sides to the apex, tapering at the filament, 

 hut not excised there. 



Kunwu, Kii. Tyiics Xo. 83,390, A. X. S. P., from Xo. 934 of 

 Mr. Hirase's collection. 



By the palatal armature of some sjieciniens this might be placed 

 in the group of C. validiuscula ; the arniaturc of others comes 

 nearer that of C. sublunellatu. The pale color and ap])areutly 

 fine striation cause me to place the species in the latter grouj). The 

 specimens, though they have lost the origiiuil surface by erosion, 

 were collected alive. Probably some other locality or station will 

 supply unworn shells, and the color will be found to be pale yellow- 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 519 



ish or greenish. There is no evidence of coarser striation on the 

 back of tlie last whorl. 



The imiLSual thickness of the early whorls separates this form 

 from C. suhulina var. leucopeas and C. serieina var. rhopalia. 

 C. heteroptyx is a much larger species with different palatal arma- 

 ture. The unusual thiuness of the shell also distinguishes C. kuro- 

 zuensk, though this may be partly due to the worn condition of the 

 type specimens. 



Section STEREOPH^DUSA Bttg. 

 Clausilia plagioptyx n. sp. PI. XXVII, figs. 8, 9. 10. 



Shell solid, fusiform, much attenuated above, the first two whorls 

 being small and of about equal diameter, giving the shell an awl- 

 like shape ; light-brown, the first whorls whitish. Somewhat glossy, 

 closely and finely striate, the strite perceptibly more widely spaced 

 on the last whorl. Whorls 9|, moderately convex, the last one 

 somewhat compressed. Aperture rhombic-piriform ; peristome 

 reflexed, thickened, white or pale-brownish. Superior lamella 

 marginal, continuous with the spiral lamella, which jienetrates to 

 a point above the superior lamella. Inferior lamella ajiproachiug 

 the superior, and equally long inside. Subcolumellar lamella 

 emerging to the lip-edge. Principal plica lateral, about a half 

 whorl long. Palatal plicse four, the upper longest, converging 

 inward toward the principal plica, or parallel with it ; the second 

 and third either subequal and short, parallel to the upper plica, or 

 the third plica may be reduced to an elevated point. Lower plica 

 very obliquely descending, standing almost as a short, oblique 

 and straight lunella. 



Length 17, diam. 4 mm. 



Goto, Hizen. Types No. 82,644, A. N. S. P., from No. 817 

 of jNIr. Hirase's collection. 



This species is based upon specimens which I listed under 

 C. brevior as from " Goto, Uzen."' Upon oj^ening specimens I 

 find tliat the palatal structure differs in a very characteristic 

 manner. 



The exterior is almost exactly like C. brevior, but it is a less 

 swollen shell than most specimens of that species ; but while 

 C. brevior has a well-developed lower palatal plica about parallel 



' These Proceedings for 1901, p. 6.53. 




520 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [AugUSt, 



to those above it, in the present species that plica stands obliquely, 

 like a lunella, though not quite near enough to the vertical posi- 

 tion to be called a lunella. In C. addisoni I have shown a lunella 

 to exist, but in combination with a norinallj- develojaed lower 

 palatal plica. C. addisoni is distinguished externally from 

 C. plagioptyx by its st)-onger rib-striation. C. plagioptyx is a more 

 solid shell than either brevior or addisoni. 



The clausiliuin had fallen nut of the two specimens of this species 

 sent by Mr. Hirase. 



C. brevior, as I stated in a former pnper, is not known from south 

 or southwest of middle Hondo. It is a species of the region about 

 Tokyo. At this time we have no Stereopluvdusa of the brevior 

 type in southwesleru Hondo, Awaji, Shikoku or northern Kyiislm. 

 C. addisoni is found in Higo and Satsuma, iu southern, and 

 C. plagioptyx in Hizen, in western Kyuslni. 



Clausilia stereoma var. hexaptyx nov. 



Shell .-oinewhat laiger than stereoma, and thinner, much less 

 strong ; dark reddish-brown or pale .straw -yellow ; palatal plicse six, 

 the upper and lower long, curved, the intermediate ones strong 

 (as in Mtgalopliwdma') , though more or less une(jual. 



Length 24.4, diam. 7 mm. 



Length 24, diam. 7.1 mm. 



Lenerth 22.2, diam. G.8 ni.n. 



Length 23, diam. 6.5 mm. 



Yaku-jima, Osumi. Types Xo. 83,302, A. X. S. P., from 

 No. 070(4 of ^Ir. Hira.se's collection. 



Differs from the forms of stereoma already known by its strong 

 Megalophsedusoid palatal folds. The clausilium is like that of 

 C. stereoma. To what extent the forms of stereoma intergrade 

 remains to be determined. 



Clausilia oostoma Jlijllciidorir. PI. XXVII, flgs. 15, 16, 17, IS. 



C. ooitoma .Mlkltr., Jouiii. Asiat. See. Bengal, LI, pt. 2, p. 4, PI. I, 

 fig. 3 (1832). Pilsbry, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 19U0, p. cr.T. 



C. japoiiica var. surugas Pils., Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1900, p. 

 447, PI. 14, fig. 4, 



C. eurystoma var. brachijptyehia Mlldff., Nachrfchtsbl. d. d. malak. 

 Ges., 1901, p. 41. 



Hhell rather solid, club-shaped, the upper three-fiftlis of the 

 length tapering and somewhat attenuated, the outlines gently con- 

 cave above; ape.x rather large; white under a yellow cuticle. 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 521 



Surface glossy, densely striate, more or less worn above. Whorls 

 llh to 12, somewhat convex, the penultimate widest, convex, the 

 last whorl flattened laterally, convex below. Aperture piriform, 

 whitish within. Peristome thickened within and reflexed, white, 

 very shortly free, and usually a trifle notched over the superior 

 lamella. Superior lamella oblique and submarsinal, continuous 

 with the .spiral lamella, which penetrates to the middle of the ven- 

 tral side. Inferior lamella forming a conspicuous, subhorizontal 

 fold in the aperture, approaching the superior lamella, ascending 

 within with a broad spiral trend, and penetrating deeper than the 

 spiral lamella. Subcolumellar lamella emerging but not reaching 

 the lip-edge. Principal plica short, arising about the middle of the 

 dorsal side and extending past the middle of the right side, 

 scarcely or not deeper than the inner end of the upper palatal plica. 

 Palatal plicfe two or one, the upper plica strong, converging inward 

 to the princijial plica, the loiver plica iveak and low or wanting. 



Length 26, diam. 5.8 mm. 



Length 25, diam. 5 mm. 



Clausilium (PI. XXVII, figs. 15, 16) broad below the middle, 

 the distal fourth abruptly curved, nearly at a right angle with the 

 middle portion, tapering to a rather acute, thickened apex, the 

 palatal margin straight near the apex, and a trifle excised close to 

 it. Above, it tapers to the filament, and is not excised or emar- 

 ginate. 



Mikuriya, Suruga (Hirase ; types of C. j. mrxujw and C. e. 

 hrachypti/chia) . Hakone, Sagami (Hungerford; types of 

 C oostoma). 



This species has been the subject of several notices by Dr. 0. 

 von Molleudorff and myself, but it has not hitherto been ade- 

 quately illustrated. Figures are now supplied for comparison with 

 the related forms dadijlopoma and goniaponia. The above descrip- 

 tion and the figures are from the types of C. japonica var. sitrugce, 

 which is undoubtedly specifically identical with C. oostoma. 

 Clausilia oostoma vnr. dactylopoma I'ov. PI, XXVII, figs. 19,20. 



Specimens from Kashio, Awaji, are a little shorter, with 11 to 

 11^ whorls, and have the loiver palatal plica well developed. They 

 have the comparatively fine, even striation of the form from ]\Iiku- 

 riya, Suruga. 



Length 22-25.5, diam. 5.2 mm. 




•522 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [AugUst, 



ClausUium (PL XXVII, figs. 19, 20) witli the apex strongly 

 projectiug, finger-like, the palatal margin near it being strongly 

 excised and concave; and it is deeply excised on the palatal side of 

 the filament. 



This form approaches var. r/oniopoma, but differs in the fine stri- 

 ation, and somewhat in the shape of the clausilium. 



Clausilia oostoma vnr. goniopoma n- sp. PI. XXVII, figs. 11, 12, 13, It. 



Shell somewhat fusiform, the upper half tapering, attenuated, 

 lower half somewhat swollen ; dull light-yellow. Sculpture of rather 

 strong and separated folds or ribs, the upper whorls smoother, worn. 

 Apex small. Whorls 11 to llir, moderately convex, latter half of 

 the last conspicuously comjiressed. Aperture siibvertical, piriform, 

 the peristome white, continuous and somewhat thickened. Superior 

 lamella marginal, oblique, continuous with the spiral lamella, which 

 peuetrates to a point above the superior lamella. Inferior lamella 

 forming a strong, subhorizoutal fold, ai)proaching the superior 

 lamella; inside it ascends in a broad spiral, and penetrates deeper 

 than the spiral lamella. The subcolumellar lamella emerges. The 

 principal plica is short, rather weak and lateral. Palatal plicw two, 

 the ujjper of moderate size or small, the lower larger. 



Length 21, <liain. nearly 5 nun. 



Length 19.8, diam. 4.5 mm. ' 



Clausilimn (PI. XXVII, figs. 11, 12) very broad below, the 

 apical end bent at a right angle to the rest of the plate, thickened, 

 narrow and inucronate, excised and thin on the palatal side; above 

 it is a little excised on the columellar side of the filament. 



Wakayama, Kii. Types jSo. 83,281}, A. .N. S. P., from Xo. 

 926 of Mr. Hirase's collection. 



In general external shajjc, as well as in the lamella?, this form 

 resembles C. oostoma Mlldff. (sui-ugce Pils. ), but it differs in the 

 far coarser sculj)ture and in the peculiarly bent and attenuated 

 distal end of the clausilium. 



Whether the forms oostoma, dactylopoma and (joniopmnn are to be 

 regarded as distinct species or as subspecies remains a subject for 

 further investigation, as each is yet known from a single locality, 

 and is constant in its charactei's, so far as may be judged by the 

 material before me. The .salient characteristics of the three forms 

 may be succinctly tabulated thus: 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 523 



Lower palatal plica weak 

 or waiitins. Palatal side 



Surface rather finely striate : 



(-„„„, of the clausilutm .straisrht 



I oostoma ■{ i- . ,, , ,, • ° , 



I \ aistally. harcllr escisea, 



J coluniellar side not ex- 



I t cised near the filament. 



y^dactylopomaA Lower palatal plica well 



developed. Palatal side 



I of the clausilium deeply 



[ excised distally, the col- 



I uraellar side excised near 



Surface coarsely plicate : goniopoma J the filament. 



The shape of the clausiliimi is shown on the plate. In C. oos- 

 toma it is not quite so strongly curved as in the other forms, there is 

 only a .slight trace of the excavation on the palatal side of the 

 distal end, and there is no excision on the columellar side of the 

 filament. In dactylopoma there is a deep excision on the palatal 

 side of the distal end, which, however, passes gradually into the 

 broadly dilated palatal margin. The latter is hut slightly thick- 

 ened. The columellar side is deeply emarginate or excised at the 

 origin of the filament. In goniopoma the deep distal excision ter- 

 minates somewhat abruptly at the end of a wide thickened rib 

 which strengthens the rest of the palatal margin. The excision 

 near the filament is slightly less deep than in dactijlopoma. 



The excavation on the palatal side of the distal end of the clau- 

 silium when retracted fits over the lower palatal plica in all of these 

 forms. 



Section EUPII^DUSA Bttg. 



Euplicedusa is one of the most sharply defined of the numerous 

 sections into which Prof. Dr. Boettger divided the heterogeneous 

 group Phcedusa. At the time of the appearance of the classic 

 Claim lieiistudien but five Japanese species were known, jjlaced by 

 Boettger in two groups typified by Chinese species. The number 

 of Japanese species has now been more than doubled, and requires 

 the arrangement proposed in my Catalofjue, p 654. This arrange- 

 ment was based upon the following characters : 

 I. — Superior lamella present. 



a. — Lunella perfect, Group of C. jos. 



b. — Lunella incomplete or wanting, palatal plicae present. 



Group of C. shanghaiemis. 

 c. — Lunella and jialatal pliese wanting, 



Group of C. subgibbera. 




524 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [AugUst, 



II. — Superior lamella wanting, or represented by a slight thicken- 

 ing of the peristome only. No lunella ; 2 palalal plicce. 

 a. — Aperture piriform, . . Group of C. Iinnr/erfordiana. 

 b. — Aperture oval, hardly narrower above than below. 



Group of C. euholostoma. 



The groups are successively more aberrant in the order given 

 above, this phylum having its acme in the section Reiiiia. 



Two species, C auhgibbera and C expansilabrk, described by 

 Boettger from Rein's collection, are not known to me by specimens, 

 and their exact localities in Japan are unknown. All of ihe other 

 species are represented in the colleclion of the Academy, and are 

 described and figured in this paper and preceding ones of the series. 



Group of C. shanghaiemis. 



Key to Species. 



I. — Superior lamella high; inferior lamella forming a eo;(sp»e!(0!« 

 convex fold in a front view of the aperture; subcolumellar 

 lamella emerging; short ujjper and lower (lalalal plie.o, 

 but no trace of a lunella. Shell glom/, dark purplish 

 brown. 11.5 by 3 mm. Hachijo Island, Izu, . C. tnjoni. 

 II. — Superior lamella moderately developed; infei'ior lamella 

 forming a low, convex fold in a front view, approaching 

 close to the .superior ; shell rib-driate. 

 a. — Brown; length i;>-14 mm., . . . . C. digonopdjx. 

 a'. — Greenish -corneous; palatal plicre short, lunella incon- 

 spicuous, almost wanting; length 10 mm., C. comes. 

 III. — Superior lamella small or reduced to a low cord; inferior 

 lamella showing in front as a low fold, not converging 

 strongly toward the superior lamella; shell dull brown- 

 ish, finely striate, 

 a. ^-Suj)erior lamella small but distinct; spiral lamella high; 

 upper palatal plica long, connected in the middle with 

 a J-shaped lunella, which is weak in the middle, and 

 .strengthened below into a nodule, . . . . ('. t<iu. 

 a'. — Superior and spiral lamclhc reduced to a low cord; palatal 

 pliciE short. 

 b. — I^ength 13-1 (i, diam. 3-3..") mm."; ui)j)er and lower 

 palatal plic;e weakly connected by a low, imper- 

 fect lunella, visible a.s a whitish streak exter- 

 nally. Kyushu C. subacubis. 



b' . — Length 13.5, diam. 2.7 mm. ; small upper and lower 

 ^ » palatal plica", but no lunella. Yes.so, C. rowlandi. 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 525 



Clansilia subaculus n. sp. PI, XXVIII, 38, 39, 40. 



Clausilia aculus Benson, Boettger, Jahrbiicher d. deutschen malak 



Ges., V, 1878, p. 49, PI. 3, fig. 3o, b. Kobelt, Fauna moll. 



extrauiar. .Jap., p. 71, PI. 8, fig. 19. Not C. aculus Benson, cf. 



Boettger, .Jahrbiicher, VI, 1879, p. 108. 

 Clausilia proba A. Ad., Boettger, Jahrbiicher, VI, 1879, p. 108. 



Not C. proba A. Ad., Ann. Mag. N. H. (4), I, 1868, p. 471. 



Shell long-fusiform, the penullimate whorl widest, those above 

 regularly tapering, the spire slenrlei above, lateral outlines straight, 

 apex rather acute; color varying from yellowish-brown to pale 

 olive-brown. Surface glos.sy, distinctly and somewhat coarsely 

 striate, the last whorl more strongly so. Whorls about 10, rather 

 convex, the last shortly free in front. Aperture wide-piriform, the 

 upper margin a little sinuate. Peristome white, somewhat thick- 

 ened, expanded and narrowly reflexed. Superior lamella merely a 

 low cord terminating in a small thickening of the peristome, con- 

 tinuous within with the spiral lamella, which penetrates nearlv to 

 the middle of the ventral side. Inferior lamella receding, be- 

 coming high within, only moderately approaching the superior 

 lamella, and decidedly shorter inside than the spiral lamella. 

 Subcolurnellar lamella barely emerging. Principal plica chiefly 

 dorsal, being visible in the throat and extending to but hardly 

 past the middle of the right side. Upper palatal plica moderately 

 long, oblique, connected near its lower end with an arcuate lunella, 

 which is very low- or alinost interrupted in the middle, becomes 

 distinct again below, where it is recurved in a short lower palatal 

 plica. 



Length 1(5, diam. 3.5 mm. 



I/ength 1.3, diam. 3 mm. 



Clau.silium (PI. XXVIII, figs. 41, 42) strongly curved, wide 

 below, rounded and somewhat thickened al the apex, the margins 

 converging somewhat upward, rather deeply excised on the colu- 

 mellar side of the filament. 



Nagasaki, in western Kyushu. Types No. 60,372, A. N. S. P., 

 received from Mr. B. Schmacker. 



Prof. Dr. Boettger has already pointed out the differences 

 between this species and C. tau. The superior lamella in the 

 former is lower, a mere cord; the strialion is stronger, and the 

 upper palatal plica smaller. The palatal structui-es do not .shine 

 white through the shell so conspicuously as in C. ^iw. Inside, the 




526 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [AugUSt, 



spiral lamella is seen in C. subaculus to be much lower thau in 

 C. tau. This is well shown iu the views of the interior from 

 behind, fig. 39 (subacu/u^) and fig. 43 (tau). In both species the 

 subcolumellar lamella is noticeably dilated where it ptisses the lower 

 palatal plica, shown in Ihe same figures. C. digonoptyx is a more 

 strongly striate shell, with the inferior lamella much more closely 

 approaching the superior. 



This species was collected at Nagasaki in numbers by Prof. Dr. 

 J. J. Rein, and at tiret (1878) identified by Prof. Boettger as 

 C. acitlus of Benson, a species originally described from Chu^an. 

 Subsequently (1879) Boettger recognized that the Japanese form 

 was distinct from Benson's Chinese specie-s, but trusting to sup- 

 posedly authentic specimens labeled C. proha A. Ad. in Dohm's 

 collection, he substituted this name for the Nagasaki sjit-cies. This 

 determination, however, cannot stand, being contradicted by the 

 terms of A. Adams' diagnosis of C. proba. He describes that 

 shell as 5i lines (_11 mm.) long, with eight whorls, " lamella 

 supera valida, compressa," whereas the Nagasaki species under 

 discussion is larger, with about 10 whorls, and a remarkably low, 

 weak and inconsj)wiwus superior lamella, iloreover, the locality of 

 C. proba is far removed from Nagasaki, being in Awa pro\'ince, 

 east of the entrance of the Bay of Ycddo. Whatever C. proba 

 may prove to be, it is surely not closely related to ('. aeulus. 



Under these circimistances it becomes necessary to rename the 

 Nagasaki species ; and in so doing I have considered it best to give 

 a new description, in order that there may be in future no uncer- 

 tainty about the exact form intended. 



Clausilia rowlandi n. i-p. PI. XXVIII, figs. 28, 20, :!0. 



Shell fusiform- turrite, the spire slender, nearly straight-sided, 

 tapering to a small apex ; light-brown. Surface finely and rather 

 sharply striate. Whorls 10, rather strongly convex, especially 

 just below the suture, the last shortly free in frout. Aperture 

 narroivly piriform, the upper margin slightly sinuate at the jx).«ition 

 of the superior lamella, the well-marked sinujus a little retracted. 

 Peristome white, thickened, expanded and reflexed. Superior 

 lamella merely a small cord, terminating in a rather wide thicken- 

 ing of the margin of the peristome, continuous inside with the 

 spiral lamella, which penetrates nearly to the middle of the ventral 

 side. Inferior lamella receding, becoming high within, approach- 

 ing the supeiior lamella, shorter within than the spir.il lamella. 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 527 



Subcolumellar lamella immersed, visible in an oblique view in the 

 aperture. Principal plica visible in the throat, extending past the 

 middle of the right side. Upper and lorver palatal pllcw quite 

 small, no luuella between them. 



Length 13.5, diam. 2.7 mm. 



Clausilium wide below, somewhat thickened at the apex, but 

 angular there, almost raucronate, by reason of an excavation of the 

 palatal side, near the apex. The margins converge somewhat up- 

 ward, and it is excised on the columellar side of the filament. 



Ciarukawa, 10 miles from Sapporo, Ishikai'i, island of Yesso; 

 collected by Mr. Paul Rowland, and connnunicateii to me by Mr. 

 Addison Gulick. 



Similar to C. subaeuhis in the low, cord-like superior lamella 

 continuous with the spiral lamella, but conspicuously distinct by its 

 narrowly pear-shaped aperture, more slender contour, the reduction 

 of the palatal plicfe and the angular apex of the clausilium. 

 C. monelasmus, of Ojima province, Yesso, is a smaller species with 

 no superior lamella, there being only a marginal thickening of the 

 peristome in its place. 



The shape of the mouth readily distinguishes this from all 

 Japanese Euplufdiisce. The clausilium is also characteristic, no 

 other Japanese JHuphwdma having it subangular at the apex. It 

 is named for Mr. Paul Kowland, who found the specimens and sent 

 them to Mr. Addison Gulick. 



Clausilia tau Boettger. PI. XXVIII, figs. 36, 37, 43, «. 45. 



Boettgei-, Clausilienstiulien, p. 58, footnote (1877); Jahrb. d. il. 

 nialak. Ges., V, p. 46, PI. 3, fig. 2. Kobelt, Fauna moll, extramar. 

 Jap., p. 70, PI. 8, fig. 18. 



The shell is finely striate, becoming costulate-striate on the back 

 of the last whorl, as in C. subaculus. The aperture is widely piri- 

 form, the upper margin distinctly sinuate at the position of the 

 superior lamella. The sujierior lamella is small, but decidedly 

 higher than in C. subaculus. The principal plica is long, extend- 

 ing inward beyond the luuella. The upper palatal plica is quite 

 long, united in the middle with the lunella, which is low or inter- 

 rupted in the middle, and curves inward below, termiuating in a 

 nodular lower palatal plica. The whole structure, as seen from the 

 inside, has been aptly compared by Boettger to the Greek letter t. 

 The palatal folds show whitish on the outside. 



Length 12^-15^ mm., diam. 3-3^ mm. 




528 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [AugUSt, 



Kyoto (Rein, Hirase; type localily); Bhirono, Buzeii ; Gojo 

 and Nohara, Yamato; Takasaki, Kozuke (Y. Hirase); Yoko- 

 hama and Tokyo (F. Stearns, purchased). 



Clansilia digonoptyx Boettger. PI. XXVIII, figs. 31, 32, 33, 34, 35. 



Boetttrir. Clausilienstudien, p. 58, footuote (1877); JaliHi., V, p. 45, 

 PI. '3, flg. 1; PI. 4, fig. a. Kobelt, Fauna, p. 69, PI. 8. fig. 17. 



A more glossy shell than C. tau, finely rib-striaie, the superior 

 lamella higher than in C. tau, the inferior strongly converging 

 toward it in the throat. The upper palatal plica is shorter than in 

 C. tau, and united with a very low luuella, interrupted iu the 

 middle, and curving inward below iu a short lower palatal plica. 

 The plicae and lamella together form an arch or bow rather than a 

 T-shaped figure. It does not attain <|uite the size of C. tau, but 

 is larger than C. comes. The conspicuous api)ro.\-inia(ion of the 

 lamellse aud the rib-striation are its most striking features. The 

 consjiicuous striation unfortunately did not come out well in the re- 

 production of my figure 32. 



The types were collected by Kein, exact locality unknown. Mr. 

 ITira.-^e has sent specimens from the following localities: ^lanabe, 

 Hitachi; Takasaki, Kozuke; Yamagachi, Tajinia; Nishigo, Uzen. 



Section REIN I A Kobelt. 

 Clausilia variegata var. nakadai nov. 



Shell very much smaller than variegata or venoiica, length 7, 

 diam. 2 mm.; brownish, the upix;r whorls whitish or somewhat 

 buff streaked; wliorls tii. Sui)erior lamella short, widely separated 

 from the spiral lamella, the other lamella; as in var. nenioiica. 



Hachijo-jima, Izu. Types Ko. 83,2K9, A. N. S. P., from Xo. 

 942 of Mr. Ilira.'je's collection. 



Section PSEUDONENIA IJllg. 



So far as the Japanese species are concerned, it is difficult to see 

 any important difference between Pseudonenia aud Euphirdusa. 

 Each has a clau>ilium of the broad type, either rouiideil or .sjme- 

 wlial acuminate at the apex, and the lamelhc :tnd i>lic;e are of the 

 same tyjie in both .sections. The Japane^se forms referred to 

 P.^cudonrniii I would therefore place under Eupliadiuia, but jtend- 

 ing a general revision of the groui)s in iiucstioii, the generally 

 accepted arrangement is here retained. 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 529 



Clausilia sieboldi Pfr. 



C. .neboldtii Pfr., Proc. Zool. Soc, 1848, p. Ill; Monographia Hel- 

 Viv., II, p. 165; Conchylien Cabinet, Claiisilia, p. 100, PI. 11, figs. 

 10, 11. . i > . & 



C. sieboldi Pfr., Monogr., VIII, p. 520. Kobelt, Fauna moll, extra- 

 mar. Jap., p. 73, PI. 9, fig. 1. 



A specie.? collected by Siebold, and described by Pfeiffer as 

 corneous-brown, with 10 whorls, a deep, arcuate luuella, visible 

 outside through the shell, aud one moderate palatal plica. The 

 type measures 18 mm. long, 4 ^vide in the middle. 



Kobelt described and figured specimens taken by Dr. Rein at 

 Amakusa, aud between Hiugo and Bugo Hkingo ?). He gives 

 the color as " dunkel horubraun." " Die Priucipalfalte ist klein, 

 haufig gar nicht zu erkennen, die Mondfalte ist klein oder breit, 

 fast gerade, von der Priucipalfalte getrennl, und schicht imteu 

 einen Ast nach hinteu ; die Gaumenfalten fehlen oder es ist eiue 

 ganz kleine vorhanden, welche mit der IMondfalte zusammeuhiingt. ' ' 



The relation of this form to the next is a matter for further 

 investigation, with more material than is at present available. 



Clausilia sieboldi var. diptyx nov. PI. XXVIII, figs. 19, 20, 21. 



Shell fusiform or turreted, the greatest width being either near 

 the middle or at the last whorl ; the spire rapidly tapering above to 

 a rather .small, acute apex, the outlines of the terminal portion 

 straight. Dark purple-brown, fading to pale or yellowish -brown 

 above. Surface glossy, sculptured with strong, close rib-strife, 

 narrower than their intervals. Whorls 9|, convex, the last some- 

 what flattened laterally, convex beneath, showing a pale or yellow- 

 ish curved streak in the position of the lunella. Aperture ovate, 

 dark within ; peristome white, thickened withm, rather widely 

 reflexed, continuous, a little excavated at the sinulus. Superior 

 lamella rather small, thin, and short, not reaching to the lip-edge; 

 widely separated from the spiral lamella, which is a half whorl 

 long, penetrating to the middle of the ventral side. Inferior 

 lamella subhorizontal, thin, not extending upon the expanded lip, 

 ascending in a wide spiral within, penetrating as deeply as the 

 superior lamella. Subcolumellar lamella very deeply immersed. 

 Principal plica about a third of a whorl long, latero-dorsal. Upper 

 and lower palatal plicoe rather short, subparallel, the upper one 

 curved ; they are connected by a very low lunella, scarcely notice- 

 31 




530 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACABEMY OF [AugUSt, 



able, except for the absence of dark pigment in the shell wall at its 

 position. 



Length 19, diam. 4-4.3 mm. 



Length 18, diam. 4.3 mm. 



Length 16.3, diam. 4 mm. 



Clausilium (PI. XXVIII, figs. 22, 23) rather wide below, 

 strongly curved, the apex somewhat acuminate, a little thickened; 

 dilated on the palatal side ; deeply excised on the cohuneUar side 

 of the filament. 



Xippou or Hondo Island: Toyonishikami, Nagato, type locality. 

 Shikoku Island : Kashiwashima, Tosa. Kyushu Island : Yatsu- 

 shiro, prov. Higo, and Sasebo, Hizen (Y. Hirase). 



This widely distributed form apparently differs from C. deholdi 

 as defined by Pfeiffer and Kobelt by its dark color, isell developed 

 principal plica, two distinct palatal plicir, and the very low liinella. 

 It diffei^s from C. neniopsU by the le.*s approaching sujjerior and 

 inferior lameUse, the former widely separated from the spiral 

 lamella, the very deeply immersed subcolumellar lamella, and 

 other characters. 



The specimens figured (Xo. 79,137, A. X. S. P.) are from the 

 type locality in Xagato jirovinco, southwestern Xippon. Those 

 sent by Mr. Hirase from Kashiwashima, Tosa, and Sasebo, Hizen, 

 are similar. Specimens from Yatsushiro, Higo, are quite thin, 

 somewhat smaller, with 9 whorls and the spiral lamella approaches 

 near the sujjcrior lamella. Length 15-1()^, diam. 4 mm. 



Clausilia neniopsis u. sp. PI. XXVIII, figs. 21, 25, 2G, 27. * 



Shell fusiform, the penultimate whorl widest, the spire much 

 attenuated above, the apex minute, first two whorls of about the 

 same diameter, weakly convex, following whorls convex and 

 rather ra[)i<lly increasing, the last two whorls forming more than 

 half (he total length, last whorl compressed laterally. The last 

 two whorls are blackish purple-bro^\n or dull red, spire reddish, the 

 earlier two whorls nearly white. Surface somewhat glossy, sharply 

 and closely rib-striatc. Aperture ovate-jMriform, dark within. 

 Peristome continuous and free, rather broadly reflexed, somewhat 

 thickened, white on both face and reverse. Superior lamella mar- 

 ginal, vertical, thin, continuous with the spiral lamella which 

 penetrates past the ventral side. Inferior lamella prominent. 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 531 



penetrating as far. SubcolumeUar lamella either barely visible 



War pIT t"^ ^^T'- ^"^^'^-^ PHearathirat 

 lateral. Palatal plica" two, lateral, the upper curved « l^ttll 



furter inward than the straight, oblique loJerone No Let 

 Clausjhun. (PI. XXVIII, fig. 26, 27) very .strongl, urved 



a most xn a semicircle, w^ide, broadly rounded belofv tl erin: 



above, not excised at the filament. tapering 



Length 18, diam. 4 mm. ; length of aperture 4.6 mm 

 Oshima, Osumi. Types No. 83,305, A. N. S. P., from No. 932 



ot Mr. Hirase's collection. 



This species is some«-hat more slender and graceful than C sie- 

 hltlTn "^^^7^. K^-^"' -'1^ -ore attenuated earlv whoZ- 

 but It differs chiefly in the much closer approach of the inferior to' 

 the superior lamell. in the aperture, the continuity of the upe ior 

 with the spiral lamella, and the deeper penetration of bothCa 

 and inferior lamelL.. As in C. sieboldi, the position of th 

 * anting lunella is indicated by a pale area in the shell The 

 ausdium differs, being broadly rounded at the apex in (7 J^! 



Z V"f T;:*"' ™'"" °^^^ ^^^ fi^-->^t' -hile in CsieZi 

 var. d^pf,. the apex is angular and there is an abrupt exci ion on 

 the palatal side of the filament. ^ excuion on 



The converging lamella in the mouth remind one of Nenia .r 

 the allied genus Garnieria. 



Abbitions to anb Cokeections op the Catalogue op 

 Japanese Clausiliib^.^ 

 Section MEGALOPH^DUSA Bttg. 

 C. DucALis var. becapitata Pils. Ka^hima, Harima. 



Section HEMIPH^DUSA Bttg. 

 C. iNTEELAMELLARis V. Mart. (Cato/., p. 648). The locality 

 Kn-ishima, Kyushu, is given by Boettger, iyst vL, p. .^7 ^ 



C. STEicTALUNA var. EMEESA Ancey. Hitozashi 

 _ <-• AGNA Pils. Yakushima, Osumi. 



- See these Proceedings for 1901, pj,. 647-656^ ~ 




532 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [AugUSt, 



C CALOPTYX Pils. Yakusliima, Osumi. 

 C. PACHYSPIRA PUs. ]Miyai, Kii. 

 C. KUROzuENSis Pils. Kiu'ozu, Kii. 



Section TYRANNOPH^DUSA I'ils. 



C. AURAUTiACA var. PLiciLABRis A. Ad., Pils. Kashiiua, an 

 island near Tauabe, Kii. (Syn. : C. a. var. hypoptyehia Pils., 

 Catal., p. 652; C. pUcilabris A. Ad.) 



C. BILABRATA Siu. Fomis minor and inteijra are listed by Dr. 

 Boettger from KyiLshu. A synonym is C. hilahiata Sowerby, 

 Conch. Icon., XX, PI. 14, fig. 135. 



Section STEREOPH.£DUSA Bttg. 



C. PLAGIOPTYX Pils. Goto, Hizen. The locality " Goto, 

 TJzen," is to be deleted from the range given to C. hrevioi; i>. (553. 



C. OOSTOMA var. gosiopoma Pils. Wakayama, Kii. 

 [ C. OOSTOMA var. dactylopoma Pils. Ka.sliio, Awaji. 



C. stereoma var. hex.^^ptyx POs. Yakusliima, Osumi. 



C. D.a:MONORUM Pils. Kikaiga-shima, Osumi. 



Section PSEUDONENIA Bttg. 



C. siEBOLDi var. DiPTYX Pils. Southwestern Nippon, Shikoku 

 and Kyushu. 



C. NENioPsis Pils. Oshima, Osumi. 



Section EUPH.EDUSA Bttg. 



C. sdbaculus Pils. Nagasaki. This name replaces that of 

 C. acuius Bens., Catal., p. 054, for the Kyu.shu form. 

 C. ROWLANDi PiLs. Gnrukawa, near Sapporo, Yesso. 



Section REINIA Kobelt. 

 C. VARIEGATA vaf. NAKADAi Pils. Hachijo-jima, Izu. 



Species incerlce sedis. 

 C. LEWisn jVncey. Japan. 




1902.] natural" SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 533 



EXPLANATION OP PLATES XXVII AND XXVIII. 

 [Note. — All figures of corresponding parts are drawn to the same scale.] 



Plate XXVII, Figs. 1-3. — Clausilia kurozuensis. Kurozu, Kii. 



Fig. 4. — Diagram of palatal armature of another specimen. 



Figs. 5-7. — Ulausilia pachyspira. Miyai, Kii. 



Figs. 8, 9. — Clausilia plagioptyx. Goto Hizen. 



Fig. 10. — Clausilia plagiojjti/x. Palatal armature of another spe- 

 cimen. 



Figs. 11-14. — Clausilia oostovia var. goniopoma. Wakayama, Kii. 



Figs. 15-18. — Clausilia oostoma Mlldlf. (Type of C. japonica var. 

 surugm Pils. ) Mikuriya, Suruga. 



Figs. 19, 20. — Clausilia oostoma var. dactylopoma. Kashio, 

 Awaji. 



Plate XXVIII, Figs. \9-'i'i. — Clausilia sieholdi-<ra.r. diptyx. Toyon- 

 ishikami, Nagato. 

 Figs. 34-27. — Clausilia neniopsis. Oshima, (Jsuml. 

 Figs. 28-30. — Clausilia rowlandi. Garukawa, near Sapporo, Yesso. 

 Figs. 31-35. — Clausilia digonoptyx. Manabe, Hitachi. 

 Figs. 36, 37. — Clausilia tau. Clausilium of a specimen from Kyoto. 

 Figs. 38-42. — Clausilia subaculus. Nagasaki. 

 Figs. 43-45. — Clausilia tau. Nohara, Yamato. 




534 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [AugUSt, 



DESCKIPTIONS OF LYCOSIDa: AND OXYOPIDa; OF PHILADELPHIA 

 AND ITS VICINITY. 



BY THOJLiS H. MONTGOMERY, JR/ 



The present paper is based on a study of the following collections : 

 that Ln the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, a rich 

 collection made by IMr. Witmer Stone, which was the basis of the 

 first contribution on Pennsylvania Lycosidce, Mr. Stone's " Penn- 

 sylvania and New Jereey Spidere of the Family Lycosidce,"' a small 

 collection made by the Rev. Dr. H. C. McCook; and the author's 

 own collection, specimens mainly from West Chester, Pa., from 

 Philadelphia and its close vicinity. I would express my indebted- 

 ness to the Academy of Natural Sciences, and to my friend Mr. 

 Stone in particular, for the use of its collections. The greater 

 number of the sjjeciraens examined are from Philadelphia and 

 from Chester county, Pa., others from various parts of Pennsyl- 

 vania, from New Jersey, New York State and one from ISIaryland. 

 The present contribution probably does not include all the species 

 around Philadelphia, and nuich less all of Pennsylvania and New 

 Jersey. 



The figures repre.seu( the copulatory organs, drawn with.great care 

 in regard to the details, for these organs are undoubtedly of first 

 diagnostic importance. The epigyna are frequently difficult to see 

 clearly in all their parts; it is always necessary to denude them of 

 the hairs to make them more discernible, and in some cases to 

 dissect them away from the body and study them by transmitted 

 light. The other characters of importance are the arrangement of 

 the eyes (including the relative extent of the dorsal eye area), the 

 relative proportions of the dimensions of the ccphalothorax and its 

 form, the relative length of the legs, and the relative length of 

 the superior and inferior spinnerets. Form and dimensions of the 

 abdomen are of little value. Color is quite constant in some spe- 

 cies, but highly variable iu others, and Eometimes there is quite a 



'Contributions from the Zoological Laboratory of the University of 

 Pennsylviinia. 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 535 



marked sexual difference in the coloration. Only sexuaUy mature 

 individuals have been considered. 



It^is very difEcult to recognize the American species described 

 b> C. Koch and Walckenaer. I have examined Walckenaer's 

 descriptions very carefully, and believe that with the exception of a 

 veij tew forms, e.g., Lycosa carolmensis, his species must be 

 legarded as unrecognizable. Walckenaer based his descriptions on 

 the manuscript notes and drawings of Bosc and Abbot; these 

 drawings have never been edited, and until they are published 

 hey cannot rightly be granted anymore priority rights than an 

 unpublished description, unless we should grant manuscript 

 drawings the value of type specimens. It would be as incoZ 

 m face of the generally accepted rules of nomenclature, to name 

 pecies on the basis of unedited drawings as upon unedited descrip- 

 unHl'.. ' these drawings are of no decisive importance at all 



until they are published, and Walckenaer's meagre verbal descrip- 

 tions comprise all we know of his species. Hentz's descriptions 

 are on the w^hole still less ample than Koch's and Walckenaer's 

 but Hentz has given figures which, in the main, are good, so 

 hat a considerable number of his species may be regarded as 

 lecognizable. It is right to be very thorough in endeavoring to 

 i^eognize the species of a previous author, even when his descrip. 

 lions are very scant ; but when the description is so inprecise as to 

 apply to any one of several species occui-ring in the locality of the 

 specimens described, then the speci.. based upon such a description 

 must be considered unrecognizable and no further attention paid to 

 It. If his rule is not followed, our nomenclature would be based 

 upon a .ssueof guesswork probabilities, and but fo- the date of 

 the tenth edition of the Systema I^aturc^, we should logically seek 

 in some early source the names given by Adam. 



The works of the writers cited are arranged together in a list at 

 the end of the paper. 



Family LYCOSID^ 



Characters of the Family.— Amnem with one pair of luu. books 

 and unpaired tracheal spiracle; with three claws on the feet and 

 legs in order of length generally 4, 1, 3, 2, or 4, 1, 2, 3- eyes in 

 three rows, the first (most anterior) row of four small eyes the 

 second and thud each of two larger eyes. ' 




§36 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [xlugUSt, 



Key to the Herein Described Genera of Lycosidce. 



A, — Third eye-row nearly ou a line with the second. 



I. — Lateral eyes of the first row about equidistant from the 

 second row and the anterior edge of the cephalothorax, 



Ocyale. 



II. — Lateral eyes of the first row at least twice as far from the 



anterior edge of the cephalothorax as from the second 



row, Dofomedes. 



B. — Third eye-row not nearly ou a line with the second. 



I. — Superior spinnerets not longer than the inferior, dorsal eye 

 area usually considerably less than one-quarter the 

 length of the cephalothorax, legs usually well clothed 

 with hair, chelicera usually fully IJ times the length of 



the head in front Lycosa. 



II. — Superior spinnerets slightly longer than the inferior, dor- 

 sal eye area fully or nearly one-quarter the length of 

 the cephalothorax, leg-s slender with long spines and 

 few hairs, chelicera not longer than li times the height 



of the head in front Pardoga. 



IT I. — Superior spinnerets at least 1^ times as long as the inferior, 

 dorsal eye area less than one-quarter the length of the 

 cephalothorax, legs well clothed with hairs, chelicera 

 comparatively small, Pirata. 



Genus LYCOSA Latr. 



Following Simon, I have included in Lycosa, and not granted 

 separate rank, the genera Trochosa Koch, Arcfosa Koch and 

 Tarentula Ohl. and Thor. In the species here described it is im- 

 practicable to distinguish these genera, the interrelation of them is 

 so close and intermediate forms so difficult to classify. When 

 genera become more difficult to distinguish than the species which 

 compose them, it is clearest to adopt one comprehensive genas for 

 all. The following key will aid in distinguishing the sjiecies here 

 described : 



A. — Cephalothorax not more than 2.5 mm. in length, without a 

 distinct median light hand. 

 I. — Sternum nearly twice as long as broad, .... nigra. 



II. — Sternum nearly round, sub/afa. 



B. — Cephalothorax 2.7-4.t) mm. in length, with a distinct median 

 light band. 

 I. — Sides of cephalothorax brownish or yellowish, sternum not 

 darker than legs. 




1902.] NATURAL BUIEJSC'KS OP PHILAliliLfHlA. 537 



1. — Submarginal light band of cephalothorax very dis- 

 tinct, generally a dark annular mark on sternum, 



ocreata pulchra, 



2. — Submarginal light band of cephalothorax indistinct, 



no dark markings on sternum, . . . relucens. 



JI- — Sides of cephalothorax blackish or dark-brown, sternum 



darker than legs. 



1- — Sternum without hairs, under surface of coxce and 



abdomen black, seindchvalu. 



2. — Sternum with hairs, under surface of coxse and abdo- 

 men not black, 

 (a) — Legs comparatively thick, fourth leg not four 

 times the length of the cephalothorax, labium 

 deep black its entire length, . eharonoides. 

 (6) — Legs very slender, the fourth leg at least four 

 times the length of the cephalothorax, labium 

 lighter at its distal end. '•~- 



(1) — Legs distinctly banded, dorso-mediau 

 baud of cephalothorax constricted at its 



miflflle, stmiei. 



(2) — Legs not distinctly banded, dorso-median 

 band of cephalothorax not constricted 

 at its middle, .... vermmilis. 

 C — Length of cephalothorax 5 mm. or more. 



I- — Abdomen with a distinct broad dorso-median dark band 

 along its entire length. 

 1.— First leg thickest, not 2i times the length of the 



cephalothorax, ..." arenicola. 



2. — First leg not thicker than the othere, more than three 

 times the length of the cephalothorax. 



(a)— Sternum black, punctulata. 



(6)— Sternum yellow gndulata. 



II- — Abdomen above without a distinct broad dorso-median 

 dark band along its entire length. 

 1. — Venter light without dark markings, middle eves of 

 first row considerably larger than the lateral, " 



cinerea. 



2. — Venter dark or with dark markings, middle eyes of 



first row usually not larger than the lateral. " "^ 



(a) — Cephalothorax not distinctly banded, or with a 



median band much narrower than the eye 



area. 



(1) — Middle eyes of the first row smaller than 

 the lateral, .... carolinensis. 

 (2)— Middle eyes of the first row larger than 

 the lateral. 




538 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [AugUSt, 



(2a) — Three dark bands on the venter 

 converging toward the spin- 

 nerets, .... inlionesta. 

 (26) — Small dark spots ou the venter, no 

 dark bauds, . . . nidicola. 

 (2c) — A broad transvei-se dark band on 

 the venter behind the lung 

 books, . . . baltimoriana. 

 (6) — Cephalolhorax with a median light band as 

 broad anteriorly as the eye area. 

 (1) — Abdomen with a light dorso-median band 

 enclosing a shorter dark baud ante- 

 riorly, lepida. 



(2) — Abdomen above with a large black spot 

 or stripe at each antero-lateral margin. 

 (2a) — Posterior eyes largest, cephalo- 

 thorax with a jiair of black 

 longitudinal bands, nigraurata. 

 (26) — Eyes of second row largest, cephalo- 

 thorax without l)lack Itands. 

 (a) — Abdomen ))elo\v with a large 

 blackish mark, fii-st leg 

 not more tliau 2i times 

 the length of the ccphalo- 

 thorax, . . frondicola. 

 (i?) — Abdomen below usually 

 without a distinct black- 

 ish mark, first leg 2.9 

 times tlie length of the 

 cephalothorax, ])urcelli. 



1. Lyoo8a nigra (Stone). (PI. XXIX, fig. 1.) 



Pardosft nigra Stone, 1890. 



nee Lycosa funcrea IJcnlz, Banks, 1891. 



(2 ? ?, tj-pes, Stone Coll., from Chester county, Pa.) 

 Eycit. — First row shorter than the second, its middle eyes higher 

 and larger than the lateral ; eyes of second row largest, less than 

 their diameter apart; the third row widest, its eyes considerably 

 nearer to the second row than to each othei^ and placed upon 

 tubercles. Dorsal eye area about one-fifth the length of the 

 cephalothorax. All eyes relatively small. 



• Form. — Sternum about double as long as ^^-ide in one i-pecimen, 

 not quite .so long in the other. Cephalothorax highest at the level 

 of the dorsal groove. Chelicera fully IJ times as long as the head 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 539 



is high in front. Maxillae coniparatively long and slender. Legs 

 stout and short, without very long spines. 



Dimensions. — Length of eephalothorax 25 mm. 



Length of first leg 5.5 mm. 



Length of fourth leg 9 mm. 



Color.--" Cephalothorax smooth and shining, uniform black 

 with a reddish brown luster, no stripes whatever. Sternum and 

 coxfe similar, somewhat lighter. Abdomen black, indistinctly 

 mottled with olive brown or gray, without any distinct pattern, 

 though there is a more or less distinct light median stripe on the 

 anterior part reaching nearly to the middle. The sides of the 

 abdomen are black, thickly speckled with small gray dots. Be- 

 neath brownish, with uo distinct markings, ilandibles and palpi 

 shining dark reddish brown, front edge of cephalothorax, just below 

 the first row of eyes, yellowish. Legs, femur dark shining like the 

 cephalothorax, patella white; the first and second pairs have the 

 other joints entirely yellowish white, the third pair are similar 

 but with prominent black spines while the fourth pair have the 

 tarsus banded with brown at the ends " (Stone). 



Comparisons. — A typical Lycosa in form of legs, small space 

 occupied by the eye area, and shortness of the superior spinnerets ; 

 quite distinct from any other American species. 



2. Lycosa sublata n. sp. (PL XXIX, fig. 2.) 



(1 ?, type. Stone Coll., Sand BaiTens, Pt. Pleasant, N. J.) 



Eyes. — First row fully as broad as the second, lateral eyes 

 slighth' higher. Eyes of second row not quite their diameter 

 apart. Third row slightly wider than second, its eyes about the 

 same size as those of the second row, and about equidistant from 

 each other and from the second row. Dorsal eye area not one-fifth 

 the length of the cephalothorax, and the eyes relatively small. 



Form. — Head low and sloping on the sides, length of chelicera 

 more than twice the height of the head in front. Sternum very 

 slightly longer than broad, nearly round. Legs stout and rela- 

 tively short. 



Dimensions. — Length of cephalothorax, 2.5 mm. 



Length of abdomen, 2.5 mm. 



Length of first leg, 6.3 mm. 



Length of second leg, 5.9 mm. 




540 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [AugUSt, 



Length of third leg, 5.9 mm. 



Length of fourth leg, 9 mm. 



Color in Alcohol. — Cephalothorax clear reddish-brown, shining 

 and without hairs, a little lighter on the antero-doi-sal portion but 

 with no distinct median stripe; a narrow black marginal line; 

 forehead yellowish ; the second and third eyes on black tubercles. 

 Sternum with a brown margin, otherwise yellow like the inferior 

 surface of the coxae. Abdomen above dark greenish-b own, a nar- 

 row yellow median stripe pointed at each end on the anterior half 

 of the dorsimi, and on either side of it two rows of large yellow 

 spots converging toward the spinnerets ; sides dark greenish-brown 

 with numerous small yellow spots; venter yellow in front of and 

 around the lung books, this yellow area ending posteriorly in a 

 point anterior to the spinnerets, and to eitlier side of it greenish- 

 brown marbled with yellow. Epigynum reddish-brown. Chelicera 

 reddish-brown ; labium black with yellow distal end ; ma.rilhr yel- 

 low. Legs yellow, with distinct broad brown rings on all the joints 

 except the metatarsi. 



Comparisons. — This species has some resemblance to L. nigra 

 (Stone), but differs from the latter in epigynum, form of steruuni, 

 and coloration of abdomen and legs. The epigynum is compara- 

 tively small and simple, but evidently mature since it is distinctly 

 elevated and dark colored. 



3. Lyoosa ooreata pulchra n. subsp. (PI. XXIX, figs. 3, 4.) 



Lycosa ocreata Hentz, Keyserling, 1870. 

 ? Lycosa ocreata Hentz, Einerton, 1888. 

 Lycosa ocreata llt-ntz. Stone. 189(1. 

 1 Lycosa ocreata Hentz, Banks, 1H92. 



(Specimens from Philadelphia, York Furnace and Luzerne 

 county. Pa. ) 



Eyes. — First row narrower tJian the second, lateral eyes slighlly 

 larger and lower, middle eyes nearer to each other than to the 

 lateral. Eyes of second row largest, less than their diameter 

 apart. Eyes of third row circular, nearly as far from second row 

 as from each other. Dorsal eye area, less than one-quarter the 

 length of the cephalothorax. 



Form. — Cephalothorax rather narrow in outline. Length of 

 chelicera about 1^ times the height of the head in front. Sternum 

 considerably longer than broad, pointed behind. I>?gs slender, 

 rather scantily covered with bail's. 




1902.] NATURAL SCJENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 541 



Dimensions. — Length of cephalothorax, cf, 2.7 mm. ; ?, 

 3.3 mm. 



Length of abdomen, c?, 2.8 mm. ; 9, 5.3 mm. 



Length of first leg, d', 8.9 mm. ; ?, 9 mm. 



Length of second leg, c?, 8 ram. ; ?, 8.5 mm. 



Length of third leg, c?, 7.3 mm. ; ?, 8 mm. 



Length of fourth leg, c?, 10 mm. ; ?, 12.5 mm. 



Color in Life. — Cephalothorax in the ? with a broad buff 

 median band widest at the middle and extending from the ante- 

 rior eyes backward the whole length of the dorsum, and in it a 

 short, very narrow darker line between the posterior eyes and a 

 similar line at the dorsal groove ; on each side of this band a broad 

 dark -brown baud, nest a narrow buff line, then a submarginal 

 band, composed of a single row of dark -brown spots, finally a 

 narrow buff marginal line. Sternum pale yellow-brown with a 

 darker marking in the form of a closed curve, rounded anteriorly 

 and pointed posteriorly, the extreme margin of sternum being 

 browni?h-black. Abdomen above a grayish-buff, with, on the 

 anterior half, a median brown band pointed behind, there ending 

 at about the middle, and including a lighter baud ; to each side of 

 this a rather indi.-^tinct brown baud extending about to the middle, 

 and continued toward the spinnerets as a row of about five black 

 spots with pale spots between them ; sides of abdomen a lighter 

 ground color, with numerous short brown stripes poiutiug caudad 

 and a few dark-brown spots ; veuter grayish-white, with two pairs 

 of longitudinal rows of small brown spots converging toward spin- 

 nerets, the inner rows more pronounced in their anterior portions, 

 the outer rows in their posterior portions. Legs yellowish, darker 

 above, the pnlpi and ma.nlke the same color, the chelicera darker, 

 and the labium black. Superior spinnerets pale gray, the inferior 

 brown. 



In some females the dark stripes are lacking on the venter. 



The males are very similar in coloration, but darker, particularly 

 on the abdomen, and the tibia of the first leg is densely covered 

 with long black hairs, resembling the arrangement of bristles on 

 a test-tube cleaner. 



Comparisons. — I have made a new subspecies of this Pennsyl- 

 vania form on the ground of the absence, in all the numerous 

 specimens examined, of dark annulations on the legs. Hentz both 




542 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [AugUSt, 



described and figured for his L. ocreata dark marking-s on the legs. 

 His specimens were from North Carolina. L. rufa Keyserling is 

 not the ? of this species, as Keyserling suggested it might be. 

 4. Lyoosa reluoens n. sp. (PI. XXIX, figs. 5, 6.) 



(1 ?, 2 d'c?, types, Stone Coll., Germantown, Philadelphia.) 



Eyes. — First row straight, its eyes of equal size, narrower than 

 the second row. Eyes of second row largest, more than their 

 diameter apart. Third row widest, its eyes on black tubercles and 

 slightly nearer second row than each other. Doi-sal eye area about 

 oue-fifth the length of the cephalothoras. 



Form. — Cephalothorax pointed in front and rounded behind. 

 Chelicera not quite li times as long as the head is high in front. 

 Sternum a little longer than broad. Maxillae more than twice as 

 long as the labium. Legs stout. 



Dimensions. — Length of cephalothorax, d", 3.5 mm. ; ?, 

 3.4 mm. 



Length of abdomen, cf, 3 mm. ; 9, 3.2 mm. 



Length of first leg, cf, 12.2 mm. ; 9, 11 mm. 



Length of second leg, cf, 11.8 mm.; 9, 10.5 mm. 



Length of third leg, d, 10.1 mm.; 9, 10.3 mm. 



Length of fourth leg, c?, 16 mm. ; 9, 14.5 mm. 



Color in Alcohol. — Cephaloffiorax in the 9 light yellowish- 

 brown, eyes surrounded by black ; a yellow median band, as broad 

 as the space between the posterior eyes, extending from the second 

 eyes to the posterior end of the thorax ; extreme margin black. 

 Sternum yellowish. Abdomen above brownish and darker than the 

 cephalothorax, an indistinct black mark at each antero-latenil 

 angle, a black spot at the middle point of dorsum, and indistinct 

 blackish spots on tlie margins of the j)o.?terior doi-sum ; sides yel- 

 lowish-brown with darker spots ixisteriorly; venter lighter, yellow, 

 with obscure dark markings on the margins near the spinnerets. 

 Spinnerets yellow. Epigynum vcr}' pale reddish-brown. Chelicera 

 reddish -brown, with a darker line formed of blacki.*h liairs on the 

 anterior aspect of each. Labium and maxillc^ yellow. Legs pale 

 yellowish-brown without darker markings, palpi similarly colored. 



In the c? the coloration is darker. Cephalothorax chocolate- 

 brown ; jn one individual there pass from near the middle of each 

 side of the median light baud two radiating bands of the same 

 color to the more indistinct submarginal band, one of these radi- 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 543 



ating bands following the line of the cephalo-thoracic groove, the 

 other passing latero-caudad. Abdomen above in the brighter indi- 

 vidual (type) with a large black spot at each antero- lateral 

 margin, a black spot at the centre of the dorsum from which two 

 very narrow black lines pass forward and diverge, and on each 

 margin of the dorsum a row of about six smaller black spots, the 

 most posterior incompletely connected with those of the opi)osite 

 side by cross lines of minute black dots ; in the other c? these 

 markings are very indistinct. Sides and venter as in ?. Legs 

 and palpi darker than in $. 



Comparisons. — This form is quite similar in general appearance 

 lo L. verisimilis n. sp. ; both have also the line of hairs on the 

 anterior surface of the chelicera ; but the genitalia of the two are 

 quite different, and relucens has much stouter legs. 

 5. Lycosa sepulchralis n- sp. (PI. XXIX, fig. 7.) 



(1 9, type, author's collection, Woodland Cemetery, Phila- 

 delphia. ) 



Eyes. — First row very slightly broader than the second, its 

 middle eyes slightly higher and larger than the lateral. Eyes of 

 second row largest, more than their diameter apart. Third row 

 slightly wider than second, its eyes nearer to the second row than 

 to each other. Dorsal eye area only about one-sixth the length of 

 the cephalothorax. All eyes relatively small. 



Form. — Head rather low in front and its sides oblique. Cephalo- 

 thorax very broad in front, more than three-fifths its greatest 

 diameter, highest just behind the posterior eyes. Sternum longer 

 than broad. Chelicera massive, their length about twice the height 

 of the head in front. Legs short, tapering in diameter from 

 proximal to distal end. 



Dimensions. — Length of cephalothorax, 4.6 mm. 



Length of abdomen, 6.2 mm. 



Length of first leg, 12 mm. 



Length of second leg, 10.8 mm. 



Length of third leg, 10.4 mm. 



Length of fourth leg, 15 mm. 



Color in Life. — Cephalothorax black, a brown area surrounding 

 the eye region and superior part of sides of head and forehead, this 

 brown passing backwai-d as a median band as broad as the eye 

 area, constricted just anterior to the dorsal groove and forming a 




544 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [AugUSt, 



narrow line ou each side of this grove ; a narrow marginal line of 

 brown. Sternum jet-black and shining, without liairs. Abdomen 

 above brown, a slightly darker indistinct median band on the anterior 

 half, a deep-black spot at each autero-lateral margin, and on each 

 margin of the posterior half of the dorsum a row of five small 

 spots of white hairs, the corresponding ones of opposite sides con- 

 nected by transverse lines of black; sides finely marbled with 

 brown and gray, venter deep black including the epigynum and 

 tlie region in front of the lung slits, this black area converging 

 behind to the spinnerets and its lateral margins somewliat racemose. 

 Clielicera, labium and maxillce deep black and glistening as also 

 the under surface of the coxa; the chelicera with few hairs and 

 with a reddish promiuencs al the supero-lateral angle. Legs 

 shining reddish-brown except the coxse which are black above and 

 below, femora unhanded ; first legs unhanded and darker than the 

 others; distinct anuuhilions of brown aud black on the patellise, 

 tibiffi auil tarsi of tlie third and fourth legs, less distinct annula- 

 tions ou the second legs. Palpi blackish-brown. 



In alcohol the black on the venter .shows indistinct lines of 

 minute brown spots converging toward the spinnerets. 



Comparliom. —This species in the form of the head is somewliat 

 intermediate between Trochosa and Tarentula. It is very close to 

 lAjcosa {Tarentula) modesta (Keys.), from which it diffei-s: (1) 

 slightly in the form of the e])igynum; (2) in the middle eyes of 

 the fii-st row being much less than twice as large as the lateral, and 

 in that the eyes of the second row are separated from each other 

 by nearly their full diameter; (3) in the black color of the ster- 

 num and coxa; aud in different coloration of the dorsum of the 

 abdomen. It shows also close resemblances to L. charonoides n. sp. , 

 particularly in the shape of the logs and the coloration of the 

 superior surface of the abdomen; but the liead is nmch narrower 

 and its sides steeper in charonoides, and the two species differ in tlie 

 form of tlie epigynum and in the coloration of the lower parts. 

 6. Lyoosa charonoides n. sp. (PI. XXIX, Og. 8.) 



(1 5, Ivpc, author's collection, Woodlitud C€metery, Phila- 

 delphia, j 



jjj^e^. —First row narrower than the .>*coud, its lateral eyes very 

 slightly lower and a little smaller. Eyes of the second row about 

 U times their diameter apart. Third row widest, its eyes as larg 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 545 



as those of the second row, and about as far from them as from 

 each other. Doi"sal eye area less than one-fifth the length of the 

 cephalothorax. 



Form. — Chelicera not Ih times the lenglh of the head in front, 

 sides of head comparatively steep. Sternum longer than broad. 

 Legs stout and tapering. 



Dimensions. — Length of cephalothorax, 4.2 mm. 



Length of abdomen, 7 mm. 



Length of first leg, 12.5 mm. 



Length of second leg, 12 mm. 



Length of third leg, 12 mm. 



Length of fourth leg, 16 mm. 



Color in Life. — Cephalothorax with a narrow median stripe of 

 long buff hairs extending from the second row of eyes to the pos- 

 terior end of the thorax, its anterior two-fifths divided into two by 

 a black line; the remainder of the cephalothorax black with short 

 brown hairs, and a few scattered long buff hairs on the posterior 

 aspects of the sides. Sternum black with scattered long white 

 hairs. Abdomen aliove lighter than cephalothorax, very dark 

 chocolate-brown, a tuft of long buff hairs at the anterior dorso- 

 median edge and two very short stripes of similar hairs diverging 

 backward from this tuft, between them a median blackish mark 

 shaped like a spearhead and terminating in a point anterior to the 

 middle, and on the outer side of each buff stripe an indistinct 

 blackish baud; to either side of the mid-line a row of 4—5 minute 

 spots, each composed of a few thick snow-white hairs; sides paler 

 chocolate-brown, with numerous small white spots; venter buff 

 with two lines of blackish color, converging from the lung books 

 to the spinnerets, and two less distinct dark lines converging from 

 epigynum not as far back as the spinnerets, and numerous dark 

 small spots on the remainder of the veuter. Lung books yellow, 

 epigynal margins blackish, area around epigynum brown, spin- 

 nerets blackish-brown. Chelicera deep black, a nearly white 

 knoblike projection at the supero-lateral angle of each. Labium 

 deep black. Ma.xilke rufous-black like the under surface of the 

 coxa. Legs deep rufous-brown with white hairs and black spines, 

 femora a little lighter than the other joints. 



In alcohol the black of the thorax and sternum becomes a 

 35 




546 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [AugUSt, 



biwnish-black, and an indistinct broad, paler marginal baud 

 becomes apparent on the thorax. 



Comparisons.— Ci. L. sepulchralk n. sp. 

 7. Lycosa stonei n. sp. (PI. XXIX, figs. 9, 10.) 



(Types of c? and ? in author's collection, from Philadelphia; 

 numerous specimens from Philadelphia and its vicinity, and from 

 West Che-sfer, Pa.) 



£■ye,^— First row shorter than the second, its middle eyes shghtly 

 higher than the lateral. Eyes of second row largest, a little more 

 than their diameter apart. Third row widest, its eyes nearly equi- 

 distant from each other and from the .-econd row. Doi-sal eye area 

 nearly one-quarter the length of the cephalolhorax. 



jFo«u.— Chelicera fully U times as long as the head is high in 

 front. Sternum longer than wide, rather pointed behind. Supe- 

 rior spinnerets longer than the inferior. Legs long and slender, 

 with short hairs and long spines. Labium barely half the length 

 of the maxiUre and rather conically pointed at its distal end. 

 Cephalolhorax narrow, in front less than half its greatest traus- 

 vei-se diameter, highest at third pair of eyes. Sides of head steep. 



Diviemions. —\^n^i\\ of cephalothorax, c?, 3.1 mm.; ?, 



.3.1 mm. 



Length of abdomen, c?, 3 mm. ; ?, 3.5 mm. 



Length of first leg, d, 12.3 mm.; 9, 10.1 mm. 



Length of second leg, cf, H "'"i- ; 9.9-8 mm. 



Length of third leg, J*, 10.") mm. ; ?, 9 mm. 



Length of fourth leg, c?, 14.5 mm. ; 9, 14 mm. 



An unusually large 9 has a total length of 9.5 mm. 



cf Color in Lije.— Cephalothorax above glistening black, a 

 median grav stripe (composed of long gray hairs which rca.lily 

 rub off j commencing anteriorly between the posterior eyes, where 

 its width equals the distance between the.se eyes, and extcudiug 

 backward, usuallv with more or less of a middle constricti(.n, to 

 the posterior endof the thorax, where it is somewhat narrower; a 

 few similar light hairs around the middle eyes, and a narrow line 

 „f them at the extreme margin of the thorax. Slcmum deep 

 l>lack with a narrow marginal line of short gray hairs. Abdomen 

 • above black with a broad mclian band, almost the wi.lth of the 

 d.u-sum and iiroadcr than the thoracal ban.l, composed of long gray- 

 isii hairs an.l extending to the spinnereLs; sides black ; venter black 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 547 



but with grayif.li hairs, tliese most densely grouped ou the maroins 

 of the posterior half where they compose two grayish bands. 

 Lung books pale yellowisli-white. Spinnerets dark at base and light 

 at tips. Chelicera and labium deer, black, maxillce brownish-black. 

 Legs: First leg with the coxa, femur, palella and fibia deep black, 

 tarsus and metatarsus yellowish-brown, the tarsus with a black 

 ring at its proximal end, short black hairs hide the claws of the 

 metatarsus, the tibia thickly coyered with long black thick hairs 

 implanted on all sides, but most numerous dorsally and ventrally 

 each tibia thus resembling a black brush (but the" hairs relaliyely 

 not as long as in L. ocreata pulchra) ; second leg with the coxa 

 femur, patella and tibia black, tarsus yellowish -brown, with dark 

 rings at the ends and one in the middle, metatarsus yellowish- 

 brown ; third and fourth legs with the coxa aud femur deep black 

 the patella rufous-black, the tibia, tarsus and metatarsas yellowi-h- 

 brown with dark rings; the distal ends of all metatarsi black 

 Palpi black, except the tarsus, which is bnnvnish-blaek. 



In alcohol the dorso-median thoracic appears red, that of the 

 abdomen brownish. 



?. Color in Life.- Ccphalothomx black, a broad median band 

 composed of long giay-buff hairs (not nearly white as in the c? ) 

 extending from the posterior eyes to the posterior end of the 

 thorax, broadest anteriorly where it occupies the whole space 

 between the second and eyeu extends a little lateral to them fillino- 

 the space between the third eyes and with a slight constriction al 

 this pomt, enlarging slightly at middle aud here more or le«s 

 distinctly notched, narrower behind. To each side of this ban.l 

 the black color is hairless, but on the lower sides with rather 

 sparsely scattered white hairs, such hairs forming also a very 

 narrow marginal band. Si.les of head, forehead and clypeus rusty 

 black. Sternum a rusty dark-bro^vn with a narrow pale margin 

 Abdomen aboye at base, next to pedicel, with a transverse band of 

 black, and when the abdomen is yiewed strictly from the dorsum 

 each end of this band appears as a large black spot at an antero- 

 lateral margin, and in some iudiyiduals these spots are continuous 

 with those placed posteriorly; ground color of dorsum buff-brown 

 with large irregular spots of black on the margins couyergiu.^ 

 toward the spinnerets, two pairs of these spots on the anterior half 

 being particularly prominent, corresponding spots of opposite sides 




548 PROCEEDINGS OF TBE ACADEMY OF [AugUSt, 



transverselv connected by angular black lines each margined poste- 

 riorly with" a narrow line of white hairs, and at the middle pomt 

 of each black transverse line a black spot; on the anterior half of 

 the dorsum two small round spots, each black medially and white 

 laterally, placed close together near the midline. Sides of abdo- 

 men brownish with numerous small white spots. Tenter pale gray, 

 with small black spots converging more or less as curved hues 

 toward the spinnerets and variable in number and size. Lung 

 book-. p=ile yellowish-white and very distinct. Epigiinnm rusty 

 brovvn. Labium deep ferruginous, almost black; cheheera the 

 «ame color on their anterior but a little paler on their posterior 

 surface. 31axillcB pale yellowish-brown like the ventral surface of 

 the coxce. All the legs distinctly banded «ilh buff and black above 

 and below on all the joints except the metatarsi, which are 

 vellowish-brown. Palpi similarly colored. 



' In alcohol the buff markings and thoracal stripe in the ¥ change 

 to reddish, and tl.e black of the cephalothorax, except around the 

 eves, to a deep reddish-brown. 



■ Comparisons. - This beautiful small woodland species I take 

 pleasure in naming for my friend, Mr. Witmer Stone, who was 

 the first to monograph the Lyeosids of this vicinity. 



L donei shows a marked sexual difference in coloration, more 

 than auv other of the local forms, but as I have observed the 

 copulation and mating, tnere is no doubt of tl.e specific identity of 

 Iho males and females here descrilted. 



It is a very well-marked species, the thick brush of hairs on the 

 fii-st tibia of the d" being .shared only by the c? of L. ocreaia 

 while the epiirvnum is easily distinguished by the great breadth of 

 its median piece. lu the sleuderness and great length of the legs, 

 a.s well as in the size of the dor.^al eye area, it resembles Pardom, 

 but in all other characters is a typical Lycosa. 



8. Lyoosa verisimilis "■ sp- (I'l- X^I^, r.gs. ll, 12.) 



(19, type, Westchester, Pa. 1 &, type, I'hiladclphia ; author's 



collection"). 



Eyes —Fii-sl row shorter than second, the middle eyes sliglitl) 

 lai-er au<l higher aii.l ch.ser together than to the lateral ej-es. 

 Eves of second n.-.v circular and fully their diameter apart. Eyes 

 of third row oval and n- arer the narrower second row than each 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 549 



other. Eyes not black but clear iu color. Dorsal eye area a little 

 more than oue-sixth the length of the cephalothoras. 



Form. — Length of chelicera fully twice the height of the head 

 in fronr, a line of black hairs on the anterior face of each. Ster- 

 num distinctly longer than broad. Legs long and slender with 

 numerous fine hairs. Cephalothorax in front almost half its 

 greatest transverse diameter, highest at middle, sides of head 

 rather steep. 



Diinensiong. — Length of cephalothorax, (f, 3.2 mm. ; ?, 

 4.2 mm. 



Length of abdomen, cf, 2.8 mm. ; ?, 4. 1 mm. 



Length of fir.st leg, d^, 9.9 mm. ; ?, 12.5 mm. 



Length of second leg, c?, 9 mm. ; ?, 11.8 mm. 



Length of third leg, c?, 9 mm. ; ?, 12. 1 mm. 



Length of fourth leg, cf, 12.5 nun. ; ?, 16. 7 mm. 



?, Color in Alcohol. — Cephalothora.v very dark reddish-brown, 

 eye region black, a broad buff median stripe arising between the 

 posterior eyes, widest iu its anterior third and most anteriorly 

 containing a narrow black line, and extending caudad to the end 

 of the thorax; and there is a much narrower, interrupted sub- 

 marginal stripe. Stern%im dark reddish -brown, with a median 

 lighter line anteriorly. Abdomen above considerably lighter than 

 cephalothorax, broWn and buff as follows : a dark-brown spot at 

 each antero-lateral margin continued backward along the lateral 

 margin of the dorsum as a brown line anteriorly and a row of 

 brown dots posteriorly, between these brown margins a broad dark- 

 buff band which, on the posterior half, is broken into 4-5 trans- 

 verse buff arches separated by dark-brown aots, and in the anterior 

 half contains a spearhead-shaped black mark terminating in a 

 black spot just behind the middle of the dorsum ; sides dark-buff 

 with numerous brown spots; venter light buff with small black spots 

 arranged in a U-shape, the opening of the U directed cephalad 

 and its curve just anterior to the spinnerets, while the space en- 

 closed by it contains a few minute black dots. Epigynwn and 

 spinnerets dark reddish-brown ; lung hook and region anterior to 

 epigynum pale brownish. Chelicera dark reddish-brown, almost 

 black ; labium blackish at base and yellow at tip ; maxillcB reddish- 

 brown, a little lighter at the distal end. Leg.i with black spines 

 and short white hairs, reddish-brown and much lighter than the 




550 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [AugUSt, 



sides of the cephalothorax, with distinct auuulatious on all joints 

 except the metatarsi, the coxre beneath pale yellowish-brown. 

 Palpi colored like the legs. 



d^. Color in Alcohol. — Much like the 9. Ceplialothorax a 

 very dark reddish-brown, median baud clear reddish and broadest 

 in its anterior third, extending from middle eyes to posterior end 

 of thorax, in its anterior third divided by a median dark line 

 broadest anteriorly, long whitish hairs being present on each side 

 of this dark line; the median thoracal band is widest a little ante- 

 rior to the middle of the cephalothorax (where it is not (luite as 

 wide as the distance between the eyes of the third row), is there 

 constricted and narrower posterior to this constriction ; there is also 

 a rather indistinct broad submargiual band of reddish ; black bands 

 connect the eyes of the second and (hinl rows. Stenium as in ?. 

 Abdomen above dull brown witii a Ijroad pattern of lighter 

 yellowish-brown, this pattern broadest antcriorh', narrowing toward 

 the spinnerets and enclosing in its anterior half a dark(>r oval mark 

 with narrinv black border; sides dull l)ri>wn with paler stripiugs 

 vent rally; venter light reddish-brown, a line of indistinct small 

 dark spots on each margin, a median dark band extending from 

 the anterior edges of the lung books anteriorly to a distance of 

 one-fifth ihe loiiglli of the abdomen from the spinnerets posteriorly, 

 this median band concave anteriorly where it has a width equaling 

 the distance between the yellow lung books, and narrowed poste- 

 riorly where it ends bluntly, and to cither side of this band minute 

 yellov.ish spots. Vhelicera reddish-brown, lubiuin a little lighter 

 at tip, maxillce yellowish-brown like the coxcc. Legs clear reddish- 

 brown, without darker rings, metatarsi a little lighter. Palpi 

 colored like legs. 



Comparisons. — A (piite <listinct species, i-esembling superficially 

 the young of L. frondicola Em. 

 9. lyoosa arenicola Sciidder. (PI. XXIX. flg. l;i.) 



Lyconn uri niroln Scudder, 1877. 

 Lyeosa nidifei Mar.\, 1881. 

 l.ycosa iiidifet Mar.v, Everlon, 18?5. 

 Lycoia arenicola Scmlder. McCook, 1888. 

 LyKosa arenicola Scmlder, .Mar.x, 1889. 

 Lyeosa arenicola Scudder, Stone, 1890. 

 Lycota domtfex Hancock, 1899. 



(l^l>ecimens from Cajjc May and Pt. Plea.saut, X. J., in Stone 



Coll., Ijut no mature S'.) 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 551 



Eyes. — First row almost as bioad as the second, the centres of 

 the lateral eyes of the first row lateral lo the centres of the lateral 

 eyes of the second rows, middle eyes larger and slightly higher. 

 Eyes of second row largest, more than their diameter apart. Third 

 row widest, its eyes nearer to the second row than lo each other. 

 Dorsal eye area a little more than one-sixth the length of the 

 cephalothorax. 



Form. — Cephalothorax very high in front, its posterior declivity 

 very gradual and beginning anteriorly close lo the posterior eyes, 

 moderately sloping on the sides. Chelicera more than twice as long 

 as the head is high in front, and with an elongate protuberance at 

 the supero-lateral angle. Sternum longer than broad. Fir.-t leg 

 much thicker and stouter than the others. 



Dimensions of ?. — Length of cephalothorax, 10 mm. 



Length of abdomen, 11 nun. 



Length of first leg, 24 mm. 



Length of second leg, 23 mm. 



Length of third leg, 21 mm. 



Length of fourth leg, 27 mm. 



Colors in Alcohol, ? 9. — Cephalothorax above reddish-brown to 

 almost black, a lighter median band as broad anteriorly as the eye 

 area extending backward and constricted just anterior to the dorsal 

 groove, narrow around this groove, constricted more deeply jast 

 behind it and enlarging again to the posterior edge of the thorax ; 

 sides of the head sometimes as light as this band ; extreme margin 

 of thorax black. Sternum light -brown to blackish-brown. Abdo- 

 men above light to dark -brown, a median darker baud extending 

 the whole length of the dorsum, but most distinct on the posterior 

 part, its margins posteriorly deeply pectinate; sides yellowish-brown 

 dorso-posteriorly and with a black longitudinal band ventro- 

 anteriorly ; venter yeUowish-brown to blackish with a more or less 

 distinct darker area from epigynum to spinnerets, and a dark 

 semicircle around the spinnerets anteriorly. Epigynum reddish- 

 brown. Superior spinnerets lighter than the inferior. Chelicera 

 deep reddish-brown to black, a reddish prominence at the supeio- 

 lateral angle. Labium and maxillce reddish-brown with lighter 

 distal ends, labium somewhat darker than the maxillae. Legs: 

 First leg darker than second, black in some individuals ; second 

 pair darker above than third and fourth, without annulations, 




552 PROCEEDIXGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [AugUSt, 



distal ends of tarsi and metatarsi black. Palpi of the same color 

 as the posterior legs. 



Comparisons. — Easily distinguished from all others of the genus 

 by the great thickness of the fii-st legs. This is a character, united 

 with that of the great height of (he cephalothorax iu front, which 

 would seem to warrant the establishment of a new genus for it. 



10. Lycosa punotulata Hentz. (PI. XXIX, fig. 14.) 



Lycosa pu)ictulat(( Ilentz, 1841. 

 Lycosa punctulata Ilentz, Emertou, 188.5. 

 neo Lycosa punctidata Ilentz, Stone, 1890. 

 Lycosa puiictulata Ileutz, Marx, 1889. 



(2 mature ? 9, Pliiladelphia, autlior's collection. ) 



Eyes. — First row shorter than the second, lateral eyes slightly 

 larger and sightly lower. Second eyes almost their diameter apart, 

 slightly larger than third eyes. Third row sliglitly wider than 

 second, its eyes nearer second row tliau eacli other. Dorsal eye 

 area not one-Sfth the length of the cephalothorax. 



Form. — Cephalothorax comparatively slender, in front highest 

 and not quite one-half as wide as the greatest transverse diameter. 

 Sides of head steep. Ijcugth of chelicera about IJ limes the 

 height of head iu front. Sternum a little longer than broad. 

 Legs rather stout, thickly covered with short hairs. A prominence 

 on the supero-lateral angle of the chelicera. Superior spinnerets 

 about as long as the inferior. 



Dimensions. — Length of cephalothorax, 6.8 mm 



Length of abdomen, 9 mm. 



Ix^ngth of first leg. Id mm. 



Length of .second leg, 17.2 mm. 



Length of third leg, 16 mm. 



Length of fourth leg, 2.3 mm. 



Color iri Life. — Cephalnthora.v above pale chocolate-brown, two 

 broad, parallel black stripes on the dorsum, separated from each 

 other by about their own width, and extending from (and embrac- 

 ing) the second and third eyes to the posterior margin of the 

 thorax ; a narrow buff line between the .-iecohd eyes ; a narrow 

 black siibmarginal and a black marginal line on the thorax ; 

 region between the eyes blackish, and a narrow, short black 

 line on each side just ventral to the dorsal eyes. Slernuvi 

 bhuk with pale hairs. Abdomen above witli a broad dark-brown 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 553 



median baud extending the whole length of the dorsum, widest at 

 the middle and antenorly with a black edging on each margin of 

 it, on each side of this median band paler grayish-brown with a 

 rather indistinct large brownish sjiot at each autero-lateral margin ; 

 sides mottled with gray and reddish -brown ; venter with a trans- 

 verse row of three large black spots just Ijehiud the plane of the 

 epigynum, and a blackish area exieudiug from them and converg- 

 ing toward but not reaching the spinnerets, this -black area bor- 

 dered on each side by a line of contiguous buff dots; in the 

 other 9 the venter shows this blackish area in the same position, 

 and scattered assymmetrically upon and around it about 16 deep 

 black spots of varying size. Epiyyymvi black, region about it 

 yellowish. Spinnerets brown. Chelieera black, maxlllw and 

 labium dark reddish-browu like the ventral surface of the coxcb. 

 Legs light chocolate-brown without darker markings, the dorsal 

 surface of the coxai black. 



Comparisons. —K well-defined species, agreeing with Hentz's 

 description and figures. The specimens labeled by Stone " punc- 

 tulata ' ' and described as such by him are individuals of L. scutu- 

 lata in which the dorso-median baud of the abdomen is not notched 

 posteriorly. 



11. Lycosa scutulata Hentz. (PI. XXIX, figs. 15, IG.) 



Lycosa scutulata Hentz, 1841. 

 Lycosa scutulata Ilentz, Emertou, 1885. 

 Lycosa scutulata Hentz, Jlarx, 1880. 

 Lycosa scutulata Hentz, Stone, 1890. 

 Li/cosa 2)unrtulata Ilentz, Stone, 1890. 

 Lycosa scutulata Hentz, Banks, 1893. 



(Numerous specimens from Philadelphia, Chester county, York 

 Furnace, Pa. ; Pt. Pleasant, N. J. ) 



^7/e.s.— First row shorter ihan the second, the lateral eyes con- 

 siderably lower than the middle. Eyes of second row largest, less 

 than tlieir diameter apart. Third row widest, its eves nearer 

 second row than each other. Dorsal eye area about one-fifth the 

 length of the cephalothorax. 



i^orwj.— Cephalothorax narrow, in front not quite half its greatest 

 transverse diameter, highest at the posterior eyes. Sides of head 

 rather steep. Chelieera slightly more than IJ times as long as 

 the head is high in front. Sternum longer than broad. Legs long 

 and rather slender. 




554 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [AugUSt, 



Dimensions. — Length of cephalothorax, c?, 7 mm.; ?, 7.5 mm. 



Length of abdomen, c^, 8 mm. ; $,13 mm. 



Length of first leg, c?, 28 mm. ; ? , 25 mm. 



Length of second leg, c?, 25 mm. ; ?, 2-3 mm. 



Length of tliird leg, c?, 23 mm. ; ?, 20 mm. 



Length of fourth leg, d', 33 mm. ; 9, 31 mm. 



Color in Life, ?. Cephalothorax pale grayish-buff, a brown- 

 black broad band on each side of the mid-line enclosing in front 

 the eyes of the corresponding side and passing back to the end of 

 the thorax, the buff line enclosed by these stripes much narrower 

 than them and widest posteriorly; a narrow brown -black sub- 

 marginal line, and a black vertical stripe from each lateral eye of 

 the first row to the ventral margin of the head in front. Sternum 

 pale yellowish witli a darker margin. Abdomen above with a 

 black-brown broad median band exleuduig its whole length and 

 widest at the middle, this band generally enclosing two or three 

 oblique brown spots anteriorly and its margins indented by brown 

 more posteriorly (though in some individuals such indentations arc 

 not present), and margined on each side by a nai-rowcr buff band ; 

 sitles streaked black-brown and buff above, paler yellow with a 

 few dark spots below; venter grayish-white with one or two pairs 

 of narrow, longitudinal, slightly darker lines converging from the 

 lung books to the spinnerets. Spinnerets dark, epigijniim blackish, 

 lung books grayish-white. Cheliceru pale-brown with a reddish 

 prominence at the supero-lateral angle, and a line of darker haire 

 anteriorly. Labium a paler brown, and ma.viUw yellowish. Legs 

 pale-brown, darker below than above, metatarsi of all a little 

 darker, as also the distal ends of the tibia and tarsus of the fourth 

 pair. Palpi colored like legs. 



In alcohol tlie dark-colored stripes appear dark reddish-brown, 

 the legs reddish, and the buff and brown of the abdomen 

 yellowish. 



Color in Life, d'. — Similar to the 5 except in following points: 

 The anterior half of the medio-dorsal strijie Of the abdomen a deep 

 black; the first leg black on femur (almost whole extent ventraliy, 

 the distal half dorsally), patella, tibia and ju-oxiinal two-thirds of 

 the tarsas. 



Comparisons. — A clearly marked species, easily distinguished 




1902.] NATUKAL SClE.NCliS OF PHlLAUi-Ll'HlA. 555 



from L. punctulata, with which it lias sometimes been eonfounderl, 

 in both form and coloration. 



12. lyoosa oinerea (Fabr.) (PI. XXIX, figs. 17. 18). 



Araneus ciuereus Pabricius, 1793. 



Lycosa cinerea Fabr,, Emerton, 188o. 



Lf/cosa lynx Hahn, 1831. 



Li/rosa halodroma C. Koch, 1848. 



Arctosa cinerea Idem. 



Aretnsa lynx Idem. 



Trochosa cinerea Fabr., Mar.x, 1889. 



Trochosa cinerea (Fab.) Stone, 1890. 



Lycosa maritima Hentz, 1841. 



(Pt. Pleasant, Sea Isle, X. J.) 



Eyes. — First row as broad as the second, or the centres of its 

 lateral eyes more lateral than the centres of the lateral eyes of the 

 second row, its middle eyes from 1^ to 1^ times as large as the 

 lateral. Eyes of second row largest, not quite their diameter 

 apart, separated from the first row by the diameter of a lateral eye 

 of the latter. Third row widest, its eyes a little nearer second 

 row than each other. Dorsal eye area about one-fifth the length 

 of the cephalothora.x. 



Form. — Cephalothorax comparatively wide, its highest point a 

 little anterior to the dorsal groove. Head low in front, height of 

 forehead from the dorsal margins of the second eyes less than one- 

 half the length of the chelieera. Legs slender. Sternum longer 

 than wide. Epigynum very small, as also the tarsal joint of 

 the c? palpiLS. Spinnerets long. 



Dimensions (.specimens from Pt. Pleasant). — Length of cephalo- 

 thorax, c?, 6.5 mm. ; ?, 6.5 mm. 



Length of abdomen, c?, 6.6 mm. ; ?, 9.5 mm. 



Length of first leg, c?, 19 mm. ; 9, 20 mm. 



Length of second leg, c?, 18.8 mm. ; ?, 18 mm. 



Length of third leg, cT, 18.6 mm. ; ?, 18.8 mm. 



Length of fourth leg, (J*, 25.7 mm. ; 9, 25.5 mm. 



Dimensions of d" from Sea I.sle. — Length of cephalothorax, 

 5 mm. 



Length of abdomen, 5 mm. 



Length of first leg, 15 mm. 



Length of second leg, 14.8 mm. 



Lenth of third leg, 13.9 mm. 



Length of fourth leg, 20 mm. 




556 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [AugUSt, 



Color in Life (d^ from Sea Isle). — Cephalothorax marked intri- 

 cately witli white, jjray-brown and black, as follows : Head while 

 witli a short black line paj^sing downward and backwaid from each 

 posterior eye ; a broad doi-sal area of white margiueil with grayish- 

 brown and black in interdigilating patches; sides mainly white 

 interrupted with grayish-brown lines, the extreme margin blackish. 

 Sternum pale green. Abdomen with a medio-doi-sal stripe of gray 

 on the anterior half iutcrrnpledjy margined with black, and on 

 each side of the mid-line extending back to the spinnerets a row 

 of 6-7 white spots margined with black and brownish ; sides above 

 white with black spots, below entirely white ; venter immaculate 

 white, lung books faint yellow, spinnerets greenish-brown. Che- 

 licera black with long white hairs on the anterior .surface, and 

 a pale prominence at the supero lateral angle. Labium black. 

 MaxillcB pale brownish. Legs white with distinct brownish annula- 

 tions and blotches on all joints except upon the brownish metatarsi, 

 and more distinct above than below. Palpi colored like the legs, 

 but the tarsi blackish. The females are colorc<l like the males. 



Comparisons.— The form here described is very probably the 

 same as Hentz's Lycosa maritima. ^^'hether it exactly agrees with 

 the European L. cinerea I cannot decide from the descriptions of 

 the authors, and have not had opportunity to see for myself speci- 

 mens from Europe. If they should eventually prove not to be the 

 same then Hentz's name would be applicable. Banks (1891) 

 regards maritima Hcntz as a .-;ynonyni of cinerea (^Fabr. ). 



The single cf I obtained at Sea Isle differs from the cfrT' in the 

 Stone collection from Pt. Pleasant in its much smaller size, and in 

 that the first row of eyes is [)laced exactly U])on the front edge of the 

 head and not removed from it by a distance cijualing the diameter 

 of its smaller eyes. It is possible there may be two geographical 

 varieties on the New Jersey coast. 



13. Lyoosa carolinensis Walck. (PL XXIX, figs. 19. 20.) 



Lycosa turentula caroUnensi* Walckenaer (Bosc. MSS.), 1837. 

 Lycosn (Titreiittihi) CaroUucntis'! Bosc. M.S., Ilentz, 1841. 

 Lycosa carohiieiiHs Heiilz, Enicrton. li:*85. 

 Lycosa carolinensis Wiilck., Marx, 1889. 

 Lycosa carolinensis Walck., Stone, 18U0. 



(Specimens from Chester county, Pa., and I^ssex county, N. J.) 



Eyes. — First row almost as broad as the second, the lateral 



larger than the middle eyes and slightly lower. Eyes of second 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 557 



row largest, circular, not quite their diameter apart. Third row 

 wider than the second, the distance between its e^'es considerably 

 greater than the distance separating theru from the second row. 

 Dorsal eye area not more than one-sixth the length of the 

 cephalothorax. 



Form. — Cephalothorax highest at the posterior eyes, in front a 

 little more than one-half its greate.st transverse diameter. Sides of 

 the head steep. Chelicera less than twice the height of the head in 

 front, massive. Sternum longer than broad. Tjegs stout, thickly 

 covered with short hairs 



Dimensions. — Length of cephalothorax, cf, 11 mm.; 9, 

 12.5 mm. 



Length of abdomen, c?', !-• una. ; ?, 11 mm. 



Length of first leg, c?, 36 mm. ; ?, 35 mm. 



Length of second leg, c?, 33 mm. ; ?, 32 mm. 



Length of third leg, c?, 29 mm. ; ?, 30 mm. 



Length of fourth leg, cf, 40 mm. ; ?, 40 mm. 



Color in Alcohol, ?. — Cephalothorax above dark reddish-brown 

 without distinct markings, blackish around the eyes. Sternum 

 black. Abdomen above dull brown, a median darker (sometimes 

 indistinct) broad band on the anterior half, this band widest ante- 

 riorly and terminating bluntly at the middle ; sides above like the 

 dorsum, below yellowish-brown ; ^vllole venter behind the lung 

 books black, epigynum reddish-brown as the spinnerets. Chelicera 

 reddish-brown with black and orange hairs anteriorly and a bright 

 red prominence at the supero-lateval angle. Labium and maxilhe 

 black or deep reddish-brown with lighter tips. Legs dull reddish- 

 brown, ventral surface of the coxre black, and each joint with 

 darker ends. Palpi reddish-brown. 



Comparisons.— 'ih\s is one of the few of Walckenaer's species 

 which can be recognized with some certainty. 



14. Lycosa inhonesta (Keys.). (PI. XXIX, figs. 21, 22.) 



Tiirentula inltoiiesta Keyserling, 187fi. 



Tareiitula tlgriiKi McCook, 1878. (Not valid as a diagnosis.) 



Lyco»a vulpina Emerton, 1885. 



Lycosa tigrina (McCooli), Stone, 1890. 



Lycosa vulpina Emerton, Banks, 1892. 



(Several specimens of both sexes from Chester county. Pa. ; 1 ? 



from Vineland, N. J., labeled^in the handwriting of Dr. McCook, 



' ' Tarentula^tigrina, ' ' may be his type. ) 




558 pkoceedinXtS of the academy of [August, 



Eyes. — First row slightly wider thau the second, (he lateral eyes 

 slightly lower and slightly smaller. Eyes of the second row largest, 

 not (juite their diameter apart. Third row widest, its eyes circular 

 and farther from each other than from the second row. All eyes 

 very small for the size of the spider. Doi-sal eye area less than 

 one-.seveulh the length of the cephalothorax. 



Form. — Massive. Cephalothorax highest at the posterior eyes, 

 in front slightly more than one-half its greatest diameter. Sides of 

 head moderately oblique. Length of the chelicera more than 

 twice the height of the head in front. Sternum about a.s broad as 

 long. Legs stout, thickly covered with hairs. 



Dimensions. — Length of cephalothorax, c?, 9.2 mm.; ?, 

 12.8 mm. 



Length of abdomen, d', 8.8 mm. ; ?, 12 mm. 



Length of first leg, c^, 33 mm. ; ?, 32 mm. 



Length of second leg, J*, 31 mm. ; ?, 30.5 mm. 



Length of third leg, d, 29 mm. ; ?, 28 nun. 



lyjngth of fourth leg, c?, 35 mm. ; 9, 37 mm. 



Color in Alcohol, ?. — Cephalothora.r above deep blackish- 

 brown, in smaller individuals reddish-brown, a more or less distinct 

 paler, very narrow median stripe from the middle eyes to the dorsal 

 groove, a similar line on each side of the doi-sid groove joining 

 with its fellow to form an unpaired one posteriorly; there b also 

 an indistinct and broader light submarginal band. Sternum 

 blackish or deep brown. Abdomen above black in dark indi- 

 viduals, in light ones with a pale s[X)t at the anterior end of the 

 dorsum; sides somewhat lighter; venter blackish in very dark 

 individuals, yelliiwish-browu in lighter ones, with generally three 

 longitudinal black bands converging backward toward the sj)innerels 

 (each line sometimes a row of spots) and with small black spots. 

 Chelicera thickly covereil with black hairs. Lnhium and maxi/hc 

 black. Legs deep reddish-brown, blackish in dark individuals, in 

 lighter ones clearly annulated on all the joints except the metatarsi, 

 the.'e aiinulations indistinct but discernible in dark inilividuals; 

 ventral surface of cox:c black in dark individuals. Palpi colored 

 like the legs. 



• The d'd are coloreil like the lighter V +. In one d^ the black 

 stripes on the venter are very distinct, in another the venter shows 

 only sniall black spots on a yellowish -brown ground. 




1902.] 'natural sciences of Philadelphia. 559 



Comparisons. — These specimens agree so closely with Keyser- 

 liug's description that I have no hesitation in regarding McCook's 

 tigrina and Emerton's vulpina as synonyms of inhonesta. My 

 specimens do not agree with Keyserling's description exactly in the 

 form of the epigynum, but that organ shows considerable variation ; 

 Keyserling also states the length of the cephalothorax to be only 

 8.7 mm., and does not describe any light median thoracal baud. 

 But he adds: " In meiner Sammlung besitze ich mehrere Exem- 

 plare, die augeblich aus Brasilien stammen, ober vollstiindig mit 

 dieser Art iibereinstimmen, sie siud nur betriichtlich grosser und 

 haben ein ganz schmales !Mittelband iiber den vorderen Theil des 

 Cephalothorax, das von hellen Hiirchen gebildet wird und bis zur 

 zweiten Augenreihe reicht." 



This species is similar in general appearance to L. carolinensis, 

 its dark individuals particularly so, but they may be readily dis- 

 tinguished by the relative sizes of Ihe eyes of the first row. 



15. Lycosa nidicola Emerton. (PI. XXIX, figs. 23, 24.) 



Lijcoaa nidicola Emerton, 1885. 

 Lyco»a nidicola Emerlou, JIarx. 1889. 

 Lycofa nidicola Emerton, Stone, 1800. 

 I.ycosa nidicola Emerton, Banks, 1892. 

 Lycosa babingtoni Blackv.-., Banks, 1891. 



(Numerous specimens from Chester county, Lancaster county, 

 York county, Pa. ; Pt. Pleasant, N. J. ) 



Eyes. — First row nearly as broad as the second, straight or the 

 lateral eyes slightly higher, middle eyes decidedly larger. Eyes 

 of the second row largest, fully their diameter apart. Third row- 

 broadest, its eyes farther from each other than from the second 

 row. Dorsal eye area about one-sixth the length of the cephalo- 

 thorax. 



i^oj-)ii.— Cephalothorax in front not quite one-half its greatest 

 transverse diameter, highest at posterior eyes. Head oblique on 

 the sides. Length of chelicera about 1-| times the height of tlie 

 head in front. Sternum longer than broad. Legs stout, well 

 clothed with short hairs. 



Dimensions of specimens from Chester county, Pa. — Lengtli of 

 cephalothorax, c?, 6.8 mm. ; ?, 8.6 mm. 



Length of abdomen, c?, 5 mm. ; ?, 11 mm. 



Length of first leg, c?, 24 mm. ; ?, 24 mm. 



Length of second leg, rj, 21.5 mm. ; 9, 21.5 mm. 




560 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [AugUSt, 



Length of the third leg, c?, 20 mm. ; ?, 21.5 mm. 



Length of fourth leg, c?, 27 mm. ; ?, 29 mm. 



Dimensions of the largest of several ? ? in the McCook collec- 

 tion, from an unknown locality in Pennsylvania. — Length of 

 cephalothorax, 9.2 mm. 



Length of abdomen, 10.5 mm. 



Length of first leg, 24 mm. 



Length of second leg, 23 mm. 



Length of third leg, 22.5 mm. 



Length of fourth leg, 31 mm. 



Color in Life, ?. — Cephalothorax above black, a very narrow 

 brownish-buff' median band extending from the anterior to the 

 posterior eye-row, and continued as a somewhat broader band 

 backward to the end of the thorax ; a broader submarginal band 

 of the same color, and some scattered buff haii-s on the sides. 

 Sternum deep black. Abdomen above deep dusky-brown, but 

 not as dark as the cephalothorax, a black spot at each antero-lateral 

 margin, between these and bounding them a light V-shaped mark 

 with its apex directed cephalad, and diverging backward from the 

 limbs of this mark a .'^eries of indistinct small ligiit spot.s, some of 

 them connected by transvei-se lines of the same color; sides deep 

 blackish with numerous short streaks of buff-brown; venter pale 

 lirowu anterior to lung slits, margins of the latter and a spot at the 

 posterior edge of the epigynum black, behind the gill slits buff- 

 brown with numerous small black spots that become confluent at the 

 spinnerets, the larger of them arranged maiulv in three narrow 

 lines converging toward spinnerets. Margins of epigynum black. 

 Spinnerets reddish-brown. Chelicera brownisli-ldack, a rcil promi- 

 nence at tlie su| cro-Jateral angle. Labium and ma.rilla: black. 

 Legs brown wilii indistinct buff annulalions on the femora, patella? 

 and libi(e; ventral surface of coxte black. Palpi brown like the 

 legs, with very indistinct annulalions. 



The cfc? are colored very much like the + ?, but are somewhat 

 more distinctly marked. The ccphalothor<tx of one alcoliolic si;eci- 

 men has a siiort narrow buff band on each side parallel to the 

 median stripe and extending from the posterior eyes to the middle 

 -of the cephalothorax. The Mernum has .•sometimes a |ia]c median 

 line. The abdomen above dark brown witli a broad bhick nu-rlian 

 baud extending to behind the niidille, and a pair of marginal 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 561 



bands of the .same color extending to the spinnerets ; the spots on 

 the venler are often arranged very irregularly. 



Comparisons. — A well-marked species. Banks (1891) con- 

 sidei-s it to be .synonymic with L. babingtonl Blackw. I cannot 

 agree with this conclusion, for though the coloration of the two is 

 quite similar, babingtoni is described as having a thoracal length 

 of two-fifths of au inch (a little more than 10 mm.), whereas the 

 largest specimen I have seen of nidicola has a thoracal length of 

 only 9.2 mm. ; and in babingtoni the fourth leg is actually and 

 proportionately shorter. Emerton mentions 9 mm. as the length of 

 the cephalothorax in his specimens of nidicola, and pi'esumably this 

 is the measurement of his largest specimen. These are not great 

 differences, but it is necessary to examine Canadian specimens of 

 babingtoni before the identity of the two may be regarded as well 

 established. 



16. Lyoosa baltimoriana (Keys) (PI. XXIX, fig. 25). 



Turentida Baltimoriana Keyserling, 1876. 

 Tarentula baltimoriana Keys., Marx, 1889. 



(1 (^, Maryland, McCook Coll.) 



Eyes.— Fivst row slightly broader than the second, its lateral eyes 

 lower and less than half as large as its middle eyes. Eyes of 

 second row largest, not quite their diameter apart. Third row 

 broadest, its eyes farther from each other than from the second 

 row. Dorsal eye area less than one-sixth the length of the cephalo- 

 thorax. 



Form. — Cephalothorax low for its diameter, head Inroad in front, 

 and its sides rather oblique. Length of chelicera more than double 

 the height of the head in front. Sternum longer than broad. 

 Legs stout and hairy. 



Dimensions. — Length of cephalothorax, 9 mm. 



Length of abdomen, 7.5 mm. 



Length of first leg, 31 mm. 



Length of second leg, 28.5 mm. 



Length of third leg, 26 mm. 



Length of fourth leg, 33 mm. 



Color in Alcohol. — Cephalothorax I'eddish-brown, a narrow white 



median line in the eye area, a lighter reddish area from the eyes 



to the dorsal groove and from the latter in radiations to the 



sides, the reddish and the darker reddisli-brown there iutergrad- 



36 




562 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [AugUSt, 



ing, extreme margin black. Sternum black. Abdomen above 

 light -browu with grayish-white markings that form a large spot 

 at each antero-lateral angle, a pair of large spots just anterior 

 to the middle, and a series of four broad, zigzag arches across 

 the posterior dorsum ; the brown forms on the anterior half of 

 the dorsum a median band that ends posteriorly notched. Sides 

 gray, streaked posteriorly with oblique brown stripes. Venter 

 yellowish-gray, with a broad transvei'se baud of deep chocolate- 

 brown extending across its entire width and from the lung slits in 

 front almost to the spinnerets behind. SpinnereU yellowish-brown. 

 Chelicera deep reddish-brown with pale yellow hairs superiorly, the 

 supero-lateral prominence also deep reddish-brown. Labium black, 

 maxilke a little lighter. Legs clear reddish-brown, tarsi and meta- 

 tarsi of the first and second darker, patellfe of :dl legs dark-brown 

 beneath, coxae below nearly as dark as the patella;, indistinct dark 

 rings on the femora. 



Comparisons.^'nus specimen agrees perfectly with Keyserling's 

 description, except that it is a little larger. 



17. Lyoosa lepida (Keys.). (PI. XXIX, (igs. 2G, 27.) 



Tareniula lepida Keyserling, 1876. 

 Lycosa communis Emerlon, 1885. 

 Lyeosa communis Euierton. Miirx, 1889. 

 Tareniula lepida Keys., Murx, 1889. 

 Lycosa communis Emerlon, Stone, 1890. 

 Lycosa communis Emerlon, Banks, 1892. 

 ? Lycosa lenta Ilentz, 1841. 

 '! Lycosa erratica ilentz, 1841. 



(Numerous specimens from riiiladilphia, Chester county, York 

 Furnace, Pa. ; Pt. Pleasant, N. J. ) 



Eyes. — First row much shorter than the second, its lateral eyes 

 slightly lower. Eyes ot the second row more than their diameter 

 apart, not larger than those of the third row. Third i"ow widest, 

 its eyes nearer the second row than each other. Doi-sal eye area not 

 more than one-fifth the length of the cephalothorax. 



Form. — Cephalothorax narrow, in front less than (me-half its 

 greatest transverse. diameter, equally liigh at the middle and at the 

 third pair of eyes. Sternum longer than broad. Ciielicera mas- 

 sive, their lengtli nearly twice tlie height of the head in front. 

 Legs rather slender. 



Dimensions. — Length of cephalothorax, d*', ">.2 mm.; '» , 

 7 mm. 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 563 



Length of abdomeu, cf, 5.2 mm. ; ?, 8.5 mm. 



Length of first leg, c?', 19 mm. ; ?, 19 mm. 



Length of second leg, c?, 17 mm. ; 9, 18 mm. 



Length of third leg, c?, 16.5 mm.; ?, 17.2 mm. 



Length of fourth leg, cf, 23 mm. ; ?, 23.3 mm. 



These are dimensions of unusually large individuals. In the same 

 locality occur mature t ^ with a cephalothoracal length of only 

 5.5 mm. 



Color in Life, cT- — Cephalothorax above black, a grayish-brown 

 median band from the posterior eyes to Ihe end of the cephalo- 

 thorax, a broader marginal band of the same color dix-ided longi- 

 tudinally in its anterior half by a black strijje, the ventral margin 

 of the forehead and the space between the second eyes also gray ; 

 all these grayish markings are due to long hairs. Sternum nearly 

 black, covered with grayish-brown hairs. Abdomen black on its 

 anterior declivity, a broad light band extends on the dorsum from 

 the anterior enil nearly to the spinnerets where it ends in a point, 

 this band buff-brown anteriorly and nearly white at its posterior 

 end; in the anterior half of this band is a dark-brown mark edged 

 with black and terminating bluntly at the middle of the dorsum, and 

 on each side of the median light band is a row of large black spots; 

 the sides are buff above and gray below ; the venter nearly white 

 with two black stripes diverging from the spinnerets forward, and 

 each at its anterior end (just behind the lung slits) deflected 

 mediad at a right angle so as almost to meet its fellow of the oppo- 

 site side. Sjnnnerets reddish-brown, blackish at base. Chelicera 

 almost black, with buif hairs anteriorly and a light prominence at 

 the supero-lateral angle. Labium black. Maxillce brown. Legs 

 yellowish-brown with buff hairs on the femora, shorter white hairs 

 elsewhere, the latter thickly grouped on the tai-si and metatarsi of 

 the first and second legs. Palpi colored like legs. 



The ? ? are colored somewhat less brightly than the c?c?. The 

 coloration is quite variable in this species. Sometimes the dark 

 stripe included in the pale median band of the abdomen is lacking. 

 The coloration of the venter is particularly variable; in four 

 specimens the venter from the epigyuum to the spinnerets is en- 

 tirely black with no buff markings ; in four others there is a pair 

 of buff spots in the black ; two others have one large buff spot in 

 the venter; others have the black in the shape of a U on a light 

 ground. All these colorations are found in the same locality. 




564 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [AugUSt, 



Comparisons. — There are two of Hentz's species which may be 

 referred with considerable uncerlainty to this one, namely lenta and 

 eiTatiea ; but in my opinion his figures, and still more his descrip- 

 tions, give too inadequate a diagnosis (compare Banks, 1891). 

 18. Lycosa nigraurata o. sp. (PI. XXX, fig. 53.) 



(1 d^, type, Medford, Burlington county, N. J., Stone Coll.) 



Eyes. — First row shorter than the second, straight, its middle 

 eyes slightly larger. Eyes of second row fully their diameter 

 apart. Third row broadest, its eyes largest and considerably neai-er 

 the second row than each other. Dorsal eye area less than one- 

 sixth the length of the cephalothorax. 



Form. — Cephalothorax in front not quite one-half its greatest 

 tran.sverse diameter, highest behind the middle, rather low and flat. 

 Sides of head rather oblique. Chelicera about twice the length of 

 the height of the head in front. Sternum distinctly longer than 

 broad. Legs rather stout. 



Dimensions. — Length of cephalothorax, 5.3 mm. 



Length of abdomen, 5.3 mm. 



Lenglh of first leg, 18 mm. 



Length of second leg, !().() mm. 



Length of third leg, 16 mm. 



Length of fourth leg, 22 mm. 



Color in Alcohol. — Cephalothoru.r v.ith a dull orange, broad 

 juedian stripe extending from the second row of eyes to the poste- 

 rior end of the thora.x, constricted slightly just anterior to doi-sal 

 groove, widest around and narrowed behin<l this groove, and contain- 

 ing anteriorly a pair of elongate black spots ; on each side of this 

 median band a black .stripe extending from the posterior eye to the 

 cud of the thorax, narrowest anteriorly and its greater diameter 

 not equaling that of the median band ; a broad submarginal band 

 of dull orange, intcrrupled by bands of black radiating from the 

 black stripe; (•.xtrenic margin of thorax with alternating orange 

 and black ; forehead dull orange, a large black spot at the ventral 

 margin of each side of the head. Sternum i)ale yellowish-brown 

 with a narrow blackish margin. Abdomen above dark yollowish- 

 brown, a deej) black band arises at each antero-lateral margin and 

 is continued l»aok lo about the middle, and behind each of these 

 l)ands some small black s])o(s, one pair of which, about the middle 

 of the posterior half of the dorsum, is particularly prominent; 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADEl^HIA. 565 



sides lighter lliau tlie dorsum, finely mottled with buff and brown; 

 venter with a broad blackish area (its lateral margins deep black) 

 extending from just behind the lung book? to the spinnerets, the 

 region of the genital orifice deep brown, the limg hooks yellow. 

 Chelieera almost black, with a pale prominence at the supero -lateral 

 angle, and covered anteriorly with both black and yellow^ hairs. 

 Labium black proximally, yellow distally ; inaxillai yellowish. 

 Legs above pale reddish -brown, indistinct mottlings of blackish on 

 all the femora and on the fourth tibice, coste and femora of all 

 much paler below. Palpi like the legs, except that the tarsus is 

 almost black. 



Comparisons. — This species diSerg ivom purcelli n. sp., frondicola 

 Emerton, and kochii (Keyserliugj, to all of which it shows resem- 

 blances, in the posterior eyes being the largest, in ihe propor- 

 tionately and absolutely larger size of the palpal organ, and in the 

 black stripes on the cephalothorax. 

 19. Lycosa frondicola Emerton. (PI. XXX, figs. 28, 29.) 



Lycosa frondicola Emerton, 1885. 

 Lycosa frondicola Emerton, Marx, 1889. 

 Lycosa frondicola Emerton, Stone, 1890. 

 Lycosa frondicola Emerton, Banks, 1893, 



(Specimens from Philadelphia, Pa ; Pt. Pleasant, N. J. ) 



Eyes. — First row fully as broad as the second, the lateral eyes 

 slightly higher than the middle, the middle eyes approximated. 

 Eyes of second row largest, their diameter apart. Third row 

 broadest, its eyes nearer the second row than each other. Dorsal 

 eye area less than one-si.\th the length of the cephalothorax. 



Form. — Cephalothorax rather narrow, in front more than one- 

 half its greatest transverse diameter, flat above, highest between 

 the jiosterior eyes and the dorsal groove. Sides of head moder- 

 ately oblique. Chelieera massive, their length more than twice the 

 height of the head in front. Sternum longer than Ijroad. Legs 

 stout, thickly covered with short hairs. 



Dim.ensions. — Length of cei)halothorax, c?, 6.1 mm. ; ?, 

 6.2 mm. 



Length of abdomen, c?, 5.5 mm. ; 9,8 5 mm. 



Length of first leg, c?, 20 mm. ; ?, 15.5 mm. 



Length of second leg, cf, 17 mm.; ?, 14 mm. 



Length of third leg, c?, 16 mm. ; ?, 15 mm. 



Length of fourth leg, c?, 23 mm. ; 9,18 mm. 




566 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Auglist, 



Color in Alcohol, 9. — Cephalothorax dark reddish-brown, a 

 broad median baud of yellowish-brown (with white hairs) from 

 the posterior eyes to the posterior end of the thorax, a narrow 

 marginal line of white hairs, posterior eyes surrounded by black, 

 sometimes an indistinct light submargiual band. Abdomen .above 

 brown or yellowish-brown, a pair of small black sjjots on the ante- 

 rior third of the dorsum near the mid-liue, a large black spot at 

 each antero-lateral margin of the dorsum continued caudad as an 

 indistinct blackish band ; sides lighter brown ; venter yellowish 

 with a broad blackish area extending from the cpigynum to the 

 spinnerets and not sharply bounded laterally, and indistinct black- 

 ish spots in the lateral yellow area. Sternum reddish-brown with 

 black hairs. Chelicera black or reddish-black, with a black 

 prominence at the supero-lateral angle. Labium blackish. Md.v- 

 ilke blackish with yellow distal ends. Legs reddish-brown, with 

 no distinct darker markinas. Palpi colored like legs. 



The c?cJ' are colored similarly, but darker. The abdomen above 

 is more grayish, with the black markings more distinct. The legs 

 also are darker than in the 9, and with darker markings on the 

 femora. 



Comparison. — Compare I/ycoaa purcelli u . sp. 



20. Lycosa Purcelli n. sp. (PI. XXX, figs. 30, 31.) 



? Lycosa liochii Keyserling, Emerton, 1885. 

 Lycosa koc/tii Keyserlm<;, Stone, 1890. 

 Tarcntula kochii Keys., Marx, 1889 {in parte). 

 1 Lycosa kochi Keys., Banks, 1892. 

 uec Tarentula Kochii Keyserling, 187G. 



(Types ia Stone Coll., 9 from Pliiladel|)hia, o" from Ft. Pleasant, 

 N. J. ; other specimens from Philadelphia and Chester county. 

 Pa.; Waterford, :^^. J.) 



Eyes. — First row shorter than tlie second, lateral eyes slightly 

 lower, middle eyes nearer the lateral than each other; eyes of the 

 second row largest, about their diameter apart; third row broadest, 

 its eyes a little farther from each other than from the eyes of the 

 second row. Dorsal eve area about oue-sixtli the length of the 

 cephalothorax . 



Form. — Cephalothorax flattened above, highest behind the mid- 

 dle, in front nearly one-half its greatest transverse diameter. 

 Head low in front and its sides rather oblifjue Chelicera massive. 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 567 



their length more than twice the height of the head iu front. 

 Sternum distinctly longer thau broad. Legs comparatively stviiit. 



Dimemions ot types. — Length of cephalothorax, c?, 6 mm.; 9, 

 7 mm. 



Length of abdomen, cf, 5 mm. ; 9, 6.5 mm. 



Length of first leg, cf, 18 mm. ; 9, 20 mm. 



Length of second leg, cf, 17.3 mm. ; 9, 18 mm. 



Length of third leg, cf, 15 mm. ; 9, 17.5 mm. 



Length of fourth leg, c?, 21 mm. ; 9, 24.5 mm. 



The smallest mature 9 has the following dimensions : Cephalo- 

 thorax, 5.6 mm.; abdomen, 6 mm.; first leg, 16 mm.; second 

 leg, 14.5 mm. ; third leg, 14 aim. ; fourth leg, 20 mm. 



Color ill Life, dark ?. — Cephalothorax blackish-brown, with 

 paler brown hairs, these forming a broad median brown band 

 which becomes narrower posteriorly and extends from the eyes of 

 the second row to the posterior end of the thorax, at each .side of 

 its posterior portion (on the posterior declivity of the thorax) a 

 large triangular black sjiot; all the hairs are short except tho.se 

 between the eyes. Sternum nearly black, with brownish hairs. 

 Abdomen above b\iff-browu with no distinct pattern except a pair 

 of black spots at the anterior margin, and an indistinct blackish 

 line along the margins of the dorsum ; sides paler, yellowish-buff ; 

 venter rich buff with numerous small black spots, most abundant at 

 each lateral margin where they form an iudistinct longitudinal 

 stripe. Epigyiium black. Lung books yellowish. Chelicera, 

 labium and ma.rilke almost black with lighter tips. Legs ferrugi- 

 nous, the femora with buff aunulations, and all joints spareely 

 covered with pale brownish hairs ; ventral surface of the tarsi and 

 metatarsi of the fii'st and second pairs, and to less degree the meta- 

 tarsi of the third and fourth pairs, paler owing to scojJidas of very 

 short, whitish hail's. Paljii colored like legs. 



Color in Alcohol, 9 9. — Cephalothorax light to dark brownish- 

 yellow, the median band pale orange. Sternum and co.rce yellowish. 

 Abdomen above yellowish-brown, darker than the cephalo- 

 thorax, the black markings quite distinct ; sides mottled yellow and 

 brown ; venter brownLsh-yellow, a row of small brown spots on 

 either side, and in the middle either a dark area or a pair of rows 

 of small brown spots converging from the epigyuum to the spin- 

 nerets. Epigynum dark-brown. Chelicera reddish-brown, max- 




568 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [AugUSt, 



illcB aud labium lighter. Legs yellowisli-brown, without darker 

 markings or with them ou the femora only. 



Color ill Alcohol, cJc?. — Cephalothorax reddish-brown, the 

 extreme margin black, a broad reddish median band of the same 

 shape as in the ? , and in the region of the median groove radia- 

 tions of the same color from it to a broad submarginal band com- 

 posed of whitish hairs. Stermun reddish-brown, with darker 

 margin and black hairs. Abdomeii above brown, a black stripe on 

 either margin extending irom the anterior end to behind the 

 middle, and behind each of these stripes one or two dark spots; 

 sides brownish ; venter darker brown, lighter anterior to the lung 

 slits. Chelicera black. Lahium black at base only. MaxilUe 

 clear reddish-brown, like the coxk. Legs reddish-brown. Palpi 

 colored like the legs, (he tarsus darker. 



Comparisons. — This species is very similar to Lycosa kochii Keys, 

 in general coloration, dimensions and form. 1 have decided to 

 separate them on the ground of the differences in the form of the 

 epigynum. Keyserling's figure shows the epigynum rounded ante- 

 riorly, the swollen portion of the median ]>iece very large, and this 

 median portion willi a deep groove ou each side of it. In all the 

 specimens of purcelli, on the other hand, the epigynum is conically 

 pointed anteriorly, the swollen portion of the median piece is less 

 than half the length of this piece, there is not a deep groove all 

 around the median piece, and the marginal pieces are quite different 

 in form from those represented in Keyserling's figure. Emerton 

 has figured only a portion of the epigynum, so that I cannot decide 

 whether he described kochii or purcelli ; and Banks has not given 

 any description. 



In general coloration this species is very similar to L. j'rondicolu 

 Emerton, and some males of purcelli are as dark on the venter as 

 the males of frondicola. The epigyna aud c? palpi offer good 

 diagnostic differences, and the cephalothorax is more sleuder in 

 frondicola. 



I dedicate this species to my old friend. Dr. W. F. Purcell, of 

 the South African Museum, Capetown, who has written much of 

 importance on the morpliology and classification of different groups 

 of the Arachnida. 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 569 



Genus PAKDOSA C. Koch. 



The following key will aid in determining the species here 

 described : 



A. — Sternum darker than the coxse. 



I. — Light markings on the posterior half of the dorsam of 

 the abdomen usually distinct, c? palpus black on all the 



joints, nigropalpis. 



II. — Light markings on the posterior half of the doi-sum of 

 the abdomen indistinct, the patella of the cj" palpus 



white minima. 



B. — Sternimi not darker than the coxse. 



I. — jNIedian light band of the cephalothorax bordered by 



black bands, sdta. 



II. — ^Median light band of the cephalothorax not bordered 

 by black bands, solivaga 



21. Pardosa nigropalpis Emerton. (PI. XXX, flgs. 32-34.) 



Pm-dosa nif/ropalpis Enierton, 1885. 

 Pardosa nUjropalpis Emerton, Marx, 1889. 

 Pardosa nifjropialpis Emerton, Stone, 1890. 

 Pardosa niyropalpis Emerton, Banks, 1892. 



(Numerous specimens from Philadelphia, Chester county, Lan- 

 caster county. Pa. ; Pt. Pleasant, N. J. ) 



Exjes. — First row shorter than second, its lateral eyes slightly 

 higher. Eyes of the second row more than their diameter apart. 

 Third row broadest, its eyes slightly smaller than those of the 

 second row, and almost as far from each other as from the second 

 row. Dorsal eye area fully one-quarter the length of the cephalo- 

 thorax. 



iio>-»i. ^Cephalothorax in front less than one-half its greatest 

 transverse diameter, highest at the third pair of eyes, sides of the 

 head vertical. Chelicera barely as long as the head is high in 

 front, weak. Sternum distinctly longer than broad. Legs slender 

 with long spines and few hairs. Superior spinnerets longer than 

 the inferior. 



Dimensions. — Length of ceplialothorax, c?, 2.2 mm. ; ?, 

 2.4 mm. 



Length of abdomen, c?, 2.2 mm.; ?, 2.5 mm. 



Length of first leg, r?, 7 mm. ; ?, 8.2 mm. 



Length of second leg, d^, 6.6 mm. ; ?, 7.2 mm. 



Length of third leg, c^, 6.2 mm. ; ?, 7.2 mm. 



Length of fourth leg, d^, 10 mm. ; ?, 12.1 mm. 




570 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [AugUSt, 



Color in Life, ?. — Cephalothorax black, with a mediau brown 

 band that commences anteriorly at the posterior eyes and there k 

 nearly as broad as the eye area, is constricted a little before the 

 middle, enlarges again around the dorsal groove but is narrowed 

 behind it; there is a less distinct narrow submarginal brown baud 

 on the sides posteriorly, and brown on the sides of the head. 

 Sternum black with white hairs and a lighter median line. Abdo- 

 men above with a large black spot at each anfero-lateral margin, a 

 yellowLsh-brown broad median band on the anterior third continued 

 back to the spinnerets as a narrower and less distinct brown band, 

 aiKl on the sides of it black and bi-own mottlings; sides brown and 

 whitish ; venter blackish-browu behind the epigynum, Imifj books 

 bright yellow, epignnum black. Inferior spinnerets darker than 

 the superior. Chelicera and labium black with a brownish tinge, 

 maxilke lighter. Legs distinctly annulated brown and blacki.sh on 

 all joints, except the metatarsi Palpi colored like the legs. 



Color ill Alcohol, ?9. — Cephalothorax blackish, a broad sub- 

 marginal yellow band continuous posteriorly witii that of the other 

 side, median band yellow ; eye area dark, but forehead light. 

 Sternum in dark individuals black, in othei-s black with yellow 

 spots, or dark-brown with a yellow median line. Abdomen above 

 blackish-browu mottled with minute yellowish <lots, a yellow median 

 stripe (margined by black) on the anterior half and ending in a 

 point anterior to the middle, and behind it a scries of 5-6 trans- 

 verse, broad yellowish arches extending to the spinnerets, each 

 edged broadly with black anteriorly, and each containing a pair of 

 small black dots; in some individuals these arches are very dis- 

 tinct, in othei's barely apparent, and (hey are clearer on alcoliolic 

 than on living specimens ; sides streaked with brownish-yellow and 

 blackish; venter yellowish or browni.«h, sometimes with an indis- 

 tinct darker longitudinal band (or a pair of darker lines) behind 

 the epigynum. Lung books yellow. Epigynum yellowish witli 

 brownish-red margins. Spinnerets yellow. Legs yellow, banded 

 more or less distinctly with brown. 



Color in Alcohol, <S'^- — Like the 9, but darker. Cephalo- 

 thorax black, the yellowish median baud extending forward, some- 

 times little farther than the dorsal groove, sometimes nearly as far 

 as the posterior eyes, it is widest at its anterior end an<l constricted 

 a.* in the 2 ; an indistinct yellowish submarginal baud is sometimes 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 571 



present; forehead below the first row of eyes yellowish, or black 

 with two or three yellow spots. Sternum black. Abdomen above 

 blackish, patterned as in the ? ; sides blackish; venter as in 

 the ? . Legs as in the ? , except that the femora of the first pair 

 are blackish proximally on the anterior edge. Pal2)i black on all 

 the joints. 



Comparkons — A distinctly variable form, particularly in the 

 coloration of the abdomen and in the form of the epigynum, two 

 types of which 1 have figured. Females with the abdominal mark- 

 ings obscure are often difiicnlt 1o distinguish from females of 

 L. minima, though the males of the two are readily separated. It 

 is the most abundant local spec:e^ of the family. 



22. Pardosa minima (Keys.). (PI. XXX, figs. 35, 36.) 

 Lycosa minima Keyserling, 1876. 

 Pardosa albojxiteUa Emerton. 1885. 

 Lycosa minima Keyserliug, Marx, 1889. 

 Pardosa albopatella Emerton, Marx, 1889. 

 Pardosa al liopatella 'Emerlon, Stone, 1890. 

 Pirrlo.ta alhopatdla Emerton, Banks, 1892. 

 Pardosa minima Kej's., Banks, 1891. 



(A few specimens from Philadelphia and Luzerne county. Pa. ) 



Eyes. — First ro>v shorter than the second, its lateral eyes slightly 

 higher. Eyes of second row largest, more than 1|- times their 

 diameter apart. Third row a Utile broader than the second, its 

 eyes farther from each other than from the second row. Dorsal 

 eye area one-quarter the length of the cephalothorax. 



Form. — ('ephalothorax flattened above, highest at third pair of 

 eyes, in front not quite one-half its greatest transverse diameter, 

 sides of head steep. Chelicera weak, little longer than the head 

 is high in front. Sternum longer than broad. Legs slender with 

 rather long spines and few hairs. 



Dimensions. — Length of cephalothorax, c?, 2.3 mm.; ?, 

 2.4 mm. 



Length of abdomen, c?, 2.3 mm.; ?, 2.5 mm. 



Length of fir.st leg, cT, 7 mm. ; ?, 7 5 mm. 



Length of second leg, cf, 6.5 mm. ; ?, 6.6 mm. 



Length of third leg, d', 6.5 mm. ; 9, 6.7 mm. 



Length of fourth leg, cT, 10 mm. ; ?, 10.5 mm. 



Color in Alcohol, d'cT. — Cephalothorax black, a rather narrow, 

 pale median stripe arising behind the posterior eyes, broadest in 

 front of and narrowed behind the median groove; a submarginal 




572 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [AugUSt, 



broad baud of the same color, not extending to the head ; forehead 

 below the anterior eyes pale, with a black mark above each of the 

 chelicera. Sternum black, sometimes with a narrow median pale 

 stripe. Abdomen above gray, a yellow median band ending in a 

 point anterior to the middle, and very indistuict yellowish trans- 

 verse stripes behind it; sides gray; venter yellowish-brown, region 

 of genital orifice black and a black median line continuing back 

 from it to about the middle of the venter, and on each margin a 

 row of small black dots. Lung books aud spinnerets yellow. 

 Chelicera mainly black, labium black, ma.rilhp yellow. Legs; 

 First leg with the femur blackish above and belo\v and with yellow 

 distal end, the other joints yellow ; second leg with the femur 

 reddish-brown aud blackish on its anterior edge only, the other 

 joints yellow; third and fourth legs with the femora reddish-browa 

 and the other joints yellowish ; there is a dark spot on the upper 

 surface of each coxa, but no anuulations on the legs. Palpi 

 black, except that the patella is white, and the distal end of the 

 tarsus yellowish above. 



Color in Alcohol, ? ?. — Cephalothorax very dark reddish-brown, 

 black between the eyes, a yellowish mediaa stripe arising between 

 the posterior eyes (where it is broadest), constiicted anterior to and 

 narrowed behind the dorsal groove, and deutate laterally on the 

 sides of this groove; margiual line black, a broad subinarginal 

 liand of yellowish, forehead yellowish with a black spot above 

 each cheliceron. Sternum brownish -yellow with a pair of parallel 

 longitudinal black stripes on its anterior half, and a siugle median 

 one on the posterior half. Abdomen above dark greenish-gray 

 with minute yellow spots, a median band of yellow (margined on 

 each side by a narrow line of black) terminating in a point at or 

 before the middle, and behind it about four indistinct yellow trans- 

 verse arches; sides streaked with dark greenish and yellowish; 

 venter in one individual yellow with a marginal narrow line of black 

 on each side and an interrupted median line of black, while in 

 another individual the venter is blackish behind tlie lung slits. 

 Spinnerets yellow, epigynum orange with black margins. Cheli- 

 cera yellowish, inaxillw dark -brown, labium black. Legs reddish- 

 brown, distinctly annuiated with brown on all the joints except the 

 metatarsi. Palpi annuiated like tiie legs. 



Comparisons. — Compare P. nigropalpis Emerlon. 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 573 



23. Pardosa soita n. sp. (PI. XXX, figs. 37, 38.) 



(Types of cf and ? iu author's collection, from Pliiladelpliia ; 

 other specimens from the vicinity. ) 



Eyes. — The arrangement as iu P. nigropalpis. 



i^orw. ^Cephalothorax highest at the posterior eyes, flattened 

 above, in front not half its greatest transverse diameter. Sides of 

 head steep. Cheliccra about 1 J times as long as the head is high 

 in front. Sternum distinctly longer than broad. Legs slender, 

 with long spines and few hairs. 



Dimensions of (f. — Length of cephalothorax, 2 mm. 



Length of abdomen, 2 mm. 



Length of first leg, 7. 8 mm. 



Length of second leg, 7.2 mm. 



Length of third leg, 7 mm. 



Length of fourth leg, 10.3 mm. 



Color in Life, c?. — Cephalothorax black, with gray hairs 

 arranged as follows : A broad median band extending from the eye 

 area to the posterior end of the thorax aud as broad anteriorly as 

 the eye area, constricted just anterior to the dorsal groove and 

 narrowed behind it; quite a distinct broad marginal stripe of these 

 hairs; the hairs on the forehead almost white. Sternum densely 

 covered with long whitish hairs. Abdomen above with a black 

 spot at each antei'O-lateral margin and two smaller spots posteriorly 

 on a line with each of these, the remainder of the dorsum grayish ; 

 sides and venter nearly white. Chelicera brownish, maxillm and 

 labium lighter. Legs pale grayish-brown with indistinct aunula- 

 tions on the femora. Palpi with femur, patella aud tibia black 

 with whitish hairs, tarsus black with black hairs. 



Color in Alcohol, r^. — -The sides and venter of the abdomen are 

 clear yellow. The sternum clear yellow with a pair of indistinct 

 darker longitudinal lines. Paljn with femur and patella greenish- 

 yellow, tibia the same color but witli black hairs, tarsus black. 



Color in Alcohol, ?. — Cephalothorax as in ij'. Sternum clear 

 yellow with black spots on the lateral margins. Abdomen above 

 grayish-green with a yellow pattern very similar to that of P. nigro- 

 palpis, except that the median band is very broad anteriorly and 

 the yellow transverse arches relatively larger and distincter, and 

 that on each margin of the yellow pattern are two or three large 

 black spots ; venter yellow. Margins of epigynum reddish. Che- 




•574 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [AugUSt, 



licera yellow like Ihe forehead, maxiUiE yellow, labium brownish 

 with yellow tip. Lejs pale greenish -yellow, with indistinct anuu- 

 lations. Palpi colored like the legs. 



Comparisons. — This species is yery similar to P. nigropalpis ; the 

 diiferences in the copnlatory organs of the two are slight, but seita is 

 much lighter colored, is smaller, and the cephalothorax relatively 

 wider and shorter. 



It also closely resembles P. pallida Emerton, but differs from it 

 in the epigjTium and in the coloration {e.g., the shape of the median 

 cei)halotlioracic stripe, and the coloration of tlie abdominal yenter). 



24. Pardosa solivaga n. sp. (PI. XXX, fig. 39.) 



(2 ? ?, types. Stone Coll., York I'urnace, Pa. ) 



Eyes. — Fii"st row not as broad as the second, the lateral eyes 

 barely two-thirds tlie diameter of the middle ones, and placed a 

 liltle lower, eyes equidistant. Eyes of second row largest, about 

 their diameter apart, placed on brownish prominences. Third 

 row widest, its eyes also on brownish prominences and placed closer 

 ■ to the second row than to each other. All eyes relatiyely large and 

 of a light color. Doi-sal eye area a little less than one quarter the 

 length of the cephalothorax. 



Form. — Cephalothorax in front fully one-half its greatest trans- 

 verse diameter, highest just behind the middle. Head rather low 

 in front, its sides moderately oblique. Length of chelicera about 

 1^ times the height of the head in front. Sternum nearly as broad 

 as long. Legs rather slender, with moderately long spines and few 

 hairs. Superior spinnerets slightly longer than the inferior, 



Dimensiom. — Length of cephalothorax, 3.*J mm. 



Length of abdomen, 4 mm. 



Length of first leg, 12 mm. 



Length of second leg, 11.5 mm . 



Length of third leg, 11.3 mm. 



Length of fourth leg, 10 mm. 



Color in Alcohol. — Cephalothorax clear reddish-brown, the only 

 dark color being the prominences which bear tlie second and third 

 eyes ; a broad yellowish median stripe arises from the second 7-ow 

 of eyes, Is constricted in front of the median groove and narrowed 

 posterior to this groove; an indistinct submarginal broad yellowish 

 stripe is also present, and radiating areas of yellowish from it to 

 the middle of the meilian baud. Sternum vellowish wilii black 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 575 



hairs. Abdomen dull orange yellow above, with a brow'nish mark 

 at each antero-lateral margin prolonged backward as an indistinct 

 stripe, transverse lines of brown across the posterior half of the 

 dorsum, and two longitudinal lines of brown on the anterior half 

 meeting at a point in the middle; the sides streaked with dull 

 orange and buff ; venter paler yellow with small dark spots most 

 distinct and niunerous laterally and posteriorly. Epigynum reddish- 

 brown, apinneret'i pale yellow. Chelicera reddish -brown, maxilla 

 and labium yellow like the sternum. Legs clear reddish-brown, 

 with indistinct buff annulations on the femora and tibia. Palpi 

 colored like the legs. 



Comjxirisons. — This form resembles a Lycosa in relative stoutness 

 of the legs, in the comparative shortness of their spines, and in 

 the amount of hair upon them, and in comparative stoutness of 

 the chelicera ; the middle eyes of the first row are also decidedly 

 larger than the lateral. Apparently, however, it should be con- 

 sidered a Pardosa on account of the length of the legs, the greater 

 length of the superior spinnerets, and the comparatively long 

 extent of the dorsal eye area. 



Genus PIRATA Sund. 



The following key will help to distinguish the species here 

 described : 



A. — Cephalothorax not more than 1.8 mm. long, . . humicolus. 

 B. — Cephalothorax 2.2-2,8 mm. in length. 



I. — Femora usually annulaled, submarginal light stripe of 

 cephahtthorax very distinct, venter asually with longi- 

 tudinal rows of dark spots, liber. 



II. — Femora not banded, submarginal light stripe of cephalo- 

 thorax indistinct, venter without rows of dark spots. 

 l.^A large dark mark on the sides near the spinnerets, 



nigromamdatus. 

 2. — Xo large dark mark on the sides near the sj^innerets, 



elegans. 

 C. — Cephalothorax more than 3 mm. long. 



I. — Eyes of second row separated from the third row by about 



their diameter, marzi. 



II. — Eyes of second row separated from the third row by twice 

 their diameter, proeurstts. 



25. Pirata humicolus n. sp. (PI. XXX, figs. 40, 41.) 



(Types of c? and ?, and other specimens, author's collection, 

 Woodland Cemetery, Philadelphia. ) 




576 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [AugUSt, 



Eije^. — First row a little shorter than the second, the lateral eyes 

 slightly lower. Eyes of second row largest, nearly their diameter 

 apart. Third row widest, its eyes a little nearer the second row 

 than each other. Dorsal eye area about one-fifth the length of the 

 cephalolhorax. 



Form. — Superior spinnerets twice the lengtli of tlie inferior. 

 Cephalothorax in front one-third its greatest transverse diameter, 

 highest at the dorsal groove. Sides of head vertical. C'helicera 

 about IJ times as long as the head is high in front. Sternum 

 longer than broad. Legs rather stout. 



Dimensions. — Length of cephalothorax, cf, 1.7 mm., 9, 

 L8 mm. 



Length of abdomen, c?, L2 mm. ; ?, 2.3 mm. 



Length of first leg, ?, 4.8 mm. 



Length of second leg, $,4.3 mm. 



Length of third leg, ?, 4.2 mm. 



Length of fourth leg, ?, 6 1 mm. 



Color in Life, ?. — Cephalothorax black, a narrow white mar- 

 ginal line not extending as far forward as the plane of the posterior 

 eyes; from the posterior eyes two bi-ownLsh lines pass caudad, unite 

 at the dorsal groove, and are coutinued backward to the posterior 

 end of the thorax as one median band. Sternum shining 

 brownish-black. Abdomen above black, a rather irregular line of 

 5-6 white spots (the foremost two largest) on either side, and 

 indistinct transverse lines of white on the posterior dorsum ; venter 

 dark-gray owing to scattered white liairs on a black ground, a 

 narrow white semicircle around the anterior edge of the spinneret 

 prominence. C'helicera, maxilloe and labium almost black. Legs 

 pale-brownish, paler below, a black ring at the distal cutis of the 

 first and second femora. Palpi colored like the legs. 



Color in Alcohol, ??. — Cephalothorax greenbh-brown, at the 

 anterior end of the median groove a dark triangular mark from 

 the anterior end of which a narrow yellowish line, bordcret! on 

 each side by a brown line, passes to the second, eye row ; a narrow 

 yellow line arises on the lateral margin of the second eye row, 

 pas.ses around the lateral margin of the third eye ixjw, and it and 

 corresponding line of the opposite side converge caudad, border 

 tlic triangular dark spot, and unite liehind the latter as a narrow 

 }'ellow line which passes to the posterior end of the cephalothorax; 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 577 



eye region black ; a narrow marginal black line on the thorax, and 

 above it a broader subraarginal yellow band which is not continued 

 along the head ; there are also indistinct brownish-yellow markings 

 radiating from the median groove. Sternum pale yellowish-brown, 

 with a narrow dark margin and a median yellow stripe. Abdomen 

 above greenish or grayish-brown, a more or less distinct median 

 yellow band terminating in a point anterior to the middle, on each 

 side of it two lines of white spots extending to the spinnerets, the 

 more median line with 6-7 spots of which the most anterior is 

 largest and the more posterior connected by faint yellow cross lines 

 with those of the opposite side, while the more lateral line is placed 

 on the margin of the dorsum, sometimes only posteriorly, and the 

 white spots which compose it somewhat elongate. The sides are 

 greenish -brown or yellowish-brown. The venter from the lung slits 

 to a short distance in front of the spinnerets yellow, this yellow 

 sharply outlined laterally and posteriorly by the greenish-brown of 

 the sides ; sometimes there are one or more transverse lines of minute 

 dots just anterior to the spinnerets. Epigynum reddish-brown. 

 Spinnerets greenish or yellowish, the superior ones darker. 

 Chelicera dark reddish-brown, labium blackish-brown, maxllhe 

 yellowish. Legs greenish-brown with the coxse and proximal 

 portions of the femora yellow. Palpi greenish-brown, the proxi- 

 mal joint yellow. 



Color in Alcohol, c?. — Considerably darker than the 9. 

 Cephalothorax almost black, extreme marginal line yellow, no 

 siibmarginal light band. Sternum as in. the 9. Abdomen also as 

 in the ?, except that the venter is very dark by reason of closely 

 approximated, transverse dark lines. Chelicera black. Legs 

 yellow, the femora of the first and second blackish above and 

 below, the other joints of these legs lighter than the third and 

 fourth legs. Palpi with the femur blackish, tlie other joints 

 yellowish-brown. 



Comparisons. — -This species seems closely related to P. mimdus 

 Emerton; but the palpal organ of the c? is proportionately larger 

 in humicolus and shows some differences in details of structure, 

 and in humicolus the cephalothorax is not " gray, with a light 

 line near the edge of the thorax and several radiating hues, ' ' but 

 in the c? (and Emerton describes only the cT of minutus) is nearly 



37 




578 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [AugUSt, 



black in alcohol (probably deep black in life), the extreme margin 

 yellow, and with a pair of yellow lines on the dorsum. 



It differs also from another closely related species, P. exi(jua 

 (correctly exiguus) Banks, iu slightly greater size, in the structure 

 of the epigynum, and to some extent in coloration. 



26. Pirata liber n. sp. (PI. XXX, figs. 42, 43.) 

 1 Piraia piratica Clerck., Stone, 1890. 



(c?, ?, types, Philadelphia, author's collection ; numerous speci- 

 mens from Philadelphia and vicinity. ) 



Eyes. — First row nearly as broad as the second, its lateral eyes 

 slightly higher. Eyes of second row largest, about half their 

 diameter apart. Third row broadest, its eyes much nearer the 

 second row than each other. Dorsal eye area less than one-fifth 

 the length of the cephalothorax. 



Form. — Superior spinnerets nearly twice the length of the inferior. 

 Cephalothorax in front almost one-half its greatest transverse 

 diameter, flattened above and highest at middle. Sides of head 

 vertical. Chelicera about 1^ times the height of the head in 

 front. Sternum longer than liroail, its anterior margin straight. 

 Legs rather slender. 



Dimendons. — Length of cephalothorax, cf, 2.2 mm.; ?, 

 2.8 mm. 



length of abdomen, c?, 2.2 mm. ; 5, 2.8 nmi. 



length of first leg, 9, 7.5 mm. 



Length of second leg, ? , 6. 6 mm. 



length of third leg, 9, 7 mm. 



Length of fourth leg, 9, 9.3 mm. 



Color in Life, 9, type. — Cephalothorax longitudinally banded 

 brown and yellowish, as follows : A narrow yellow median baml 

 extending from between the second eyes in front to not (juile the 

 middle of the cephalothorax behind, and bordered on each side by 

 brown; two yellow lines starting at the lateral borders of the first 

 and second eye rows, and becoming thicker converging backward to 

 the sides of the dorsal groove, from whence they are continued back 

 as one median line to the end of the thorax, and each of these bi)r- 

 dered laterally by a brown band, the widest of all the bands, and 

 with deeply scalloped lateral margin ; lateral from the latter a 

 yellow band, then a narrower and shorter brown l)aii(l, then a .'till 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 579 



uaiTower yellow submaigiual Hue, finally a narrow black marginal 

 line. The eye region black. Sternum yellowish-brown with a 

 narrow brown margin, and a brown spearhead-shaped mark 

 (composed of two converging dark lines) with the point directed 

 caudad. Abdomen above blackish, a narrow brown median band 

 terminating in a point before the middle, a white line at each 

 antero-lateral margin of the dorsum, and small white spots on the 

 posterior two-thirds of the dorsum arranged in two lines of 5-6 

 spots each, the most posterior in each line largest ; sides brown 

 above, below yellowish-brown streaked with white hairs ; venter 

 with a broad brownish band extending the whole length and con- 

 taining indistinct darker dots. Lunrj books yellow. Spinnerets 

 brown. Chelicera, maxilkc and labium reddish-brown, the last 

 nearly black at (he base. Epigyn.um reddish-brown. Legs pale 

 yellowish-brown with indistinct darker annulations on Ihe femora, 

 patellfe and libise. 



Color in Alcohol, 9 ?. — The ground color of the dorsum of the 

 abdomen greenish-brown, a yellow median band ending in a point 

 at the middle, on each side a row of about five elongated yellow 

 spots, becoming confluent at the spinnerets with its fellow of the 

 opposite side, and more laterally on each side a row of 4-5 minute 

 yellow spots; venter yellowish with a median and two pairs of 

 lateral confluent dark spots which do not extend to the spinnerets, 

 the more metlian rows longer and curved. Legs more or less 

 distinctly banded. 



tlolor in Alcohol, c?c?. — Cephalothorax as in the ?, hut sternum 

 .''ometimes without dark lines. Abdomen as in the 9. Legs clear 

 reddish-brown, femora yellowish proximally and ventrally, femora 

 and libire indistinctly banded. Palpi reddish-brown, tarsi darker. 

 Coloration otherwise as in the 9. 



Comparisoiis. — This species differs from P. elegans Stone mark- 

 edly in the structure of the epigynum and in the annulations of 

 the legs. From the other most nearly related form, P. insularis 

 Ernertou, it differe in smaller size, in the coloration of the abdo- 

 men, and in the structure of the epig3'num. 

 27- Pirata nigromaoulatus n. sp. (PI. XXX, figs. 44,45.) 



(d', 9, types, Harvey's Lake, Luzerne county. Pa., Stone Coll. 

 everal other specimens collected at the same place.) 



E[ies. — First row neai-ly as broad as the second, ils lateral eves 




580 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Auglist, 



sliglitly larger and very slightly higher. Eyes of second row 

 largest, their diameter apart. Third row widest, its eyes nearer 

 the second row than each other. Dorsal eye area less tliau oue- 

 •luarter the leuglh of the cephalothoras. 



Form. — Superior spinnerets about If times the length of the 

 inferior. Cephalothorax iu front less than one-tl;ird its greatest 

 transver.^e diameter, higliest at the anterior edge of the median 

 groove. Chelicera about 1^ times the height of the head in front. 

 Sternum little longer than broad. Legs rather stout. 



Dimensions. — Length of cephalothorax, c?, 2.2 mm. ; ?, 

 2.8 mm. 



Length of abdomen, c?, 1.8 mm. ; ?, 3.3 mm. 

 Length of fii-st leg, 9, 7 mm. 

 Length of second leg, 9, 6.5 mm. 

 Length of tliird leg, 9, 6.4 mm. 

 Length of fourth leg, 9, 9.2 mm. 



Color in Alcohol, 9 9. — CephalolJwra.v reddish-brown, a narrow 

 buff band from between the second pair of eyes to the doreal 

 groove, a broader buff band on each side arising at the posterior 

 eye, with its fellow of the opposite side converging back to (lie 

 sides of the median groove, where I he three buff iiands unite and 

 pass caudad as one median band to the end of the thorax ; a 

 broader submarginal buff line is pressnt in some specimens, but in 

 most there is no trace of it; eye region black. Sternum yellowish, 

 its margins darker, usually a median broad light band bordereil 

 by narrow linas of darker. Abdomen pale yellowish-biowu'a 

 little darker above ; on the dorsum a lancct-sliaped yellmvish mark 

 bordered on each side by a brown line and ending in a point at 

 the middle, and with more or less distinctness about five tran.sverse 

 brown arches behind it and extending to the spinnerets wliere they 

 are smallest, and in some specimens lighter spots at the lateral ends 

 of these transvei"se markings; on eacli side, dose to the spinnerets, 

 a dark mark, sometimes black and very distinct, sometimes very 

 indistinct, and sometimes ventrally connected, with its fellow by a 

 transverse dark band just anlerior to the spinnerets; venter pale 

 yellowish-brown, liglitest in the mid-line but witliout markings. 

 Epigijnum blackish-red, gpinnerets like the venter. Chelicera pale 

 reddisli-browu ; mii.rilln and labium like the sternum. IjC(jg yellow 

 without darker annulalions, as are the palpi. 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 581 



Color in Alcohol, cf. — Cephalothorax as in the 9, butj darker 

 aud without a siibmarginal liglit stripe. Sternum darker than in 

 ?, brownish with a narrow median light stripe. Abdomen also 

 darker above, with the same general pattern but the light spots 

 larger and more conspicuous; sides brownisli streaked with yellow, 

 no dark spots near the spinnerets; venler brownish yellow. Legs 

 yellow, fenioni of the tii"st and second pairs deep brown abov'e and 

 below. Palpi yellow, femora deep brown. 



Comparisons. — Quite closely related to P. elegans Stone, but the 

 epigyna are quite different. The ? ? also show considerable 

 resemblance to those of P. liber, while the rj'c?' are readily distin- 

 guished both by color aud by the structure of the palpus ; but there 

 is a difference in the epigynum, the submarginal light thoracal 

 stripe is distinct in liber, which has generally dark markings on the 

 abdominal venter and lacks the large dark spot near I he spinnerets. 



28. Pirata elegans Stone. (PI. XXX, fig. -IB.) 

 Piraia elegans Stone, 1890. 



(4 ? ?, tj'pes, York county, Pa., Slone Coll.) 



Eyes. — Fii-st row shorter than the second, its lateral eyes lower 

 and slightly larger, its middle eyes approximated. Eyes of 

 second row largest, their diameter apart. Third row widest, its 

 eyes on slight tubercles (as are the second eyes) and nearer the 

 second row than each other. Dorsal eye area a little more than 

 one-fifth the length of the cephalothorax. 



Form. — Superior spinnerets double the length of the inferior. 

 Cephalothorax flattened above, highest at the posterior eyes, in front 

 not more than one-third its greatest transverse diameter. Chelicera 

 rather weak, their length not much more than IJ times the height 

 of the head in front. Sternum distinctly longer than broad. 

 Legs rather stout. 



Dimensions. — Length of cephalothorax, 2.5 mm. 



Length of abdomen, 3 mm. 



Length of fii-st leg, 6 mm. 



Length of second leg, 5. 5 mm. 



Length of third leg, 6 mm. 



Length of fourth leg, 9.3 ram. 



Color in Alcohol. — Cephalothorax clear reddish-brown, an inter- 

 rupted narrow blackish submarginal stripe just above the yellow- 

 margin, aud fine black lines radiating from the dorsal groove; a 




582 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [AugUSl, 



buff median band, narrowest at the posterior edge of the thorax, 

 enlarging from the median groove forward, and reaching ante- 

 riorly in the mid-line to in front of the posterior eyes and on the 

 sides to the first eye row, this liuff band divided into three ante- 

 riorly by two darker lines which converge from the posterior eyes 

 to the dorsal groove ; on each side is a black line from the second 

 to the third eyes. Sternum yellowish with narrow black margin, 

 and sometimes two broader, rather indistinct darker longitudinal 

 bands. Abdomen above dark yellowish-brown, variable in color; 

 in two specimens marbled with yellow and brown on the anterior 

 part of the doreum, in the third with three pairs of black spots, 

 in the fourth with a broad yellow median band on the anterior half 

 narrowing suddenly just behind the middle and continuing to the 

 spinnerets, while the posterior half of the dorsum has a few trans- 

 verse yellow and lirown lines ; sides brownish or yellowish ; venter 

 yellowish, lighter than the sides, without distinct spots but witli an 

 indistinct dark mark behind the epigyuum. Epigijnum reddish- 

 brown. Chelicera light reddish -brown. Labium and maxillw 

 yellowish-brown. Lerjs and palpi pale yellowish-brown. 

 ('omparl''on. — See P. nigromaculatus. 



29. Pirata marxi Stone. (PI. XXX, fig. 17.) 

 Pirata marxi Stone, 1890. 



(1 ?, type, York comity, Pa., Stone Coll.) 



Eyes. — First row fully as broad as the second, its lateral eyes 

 higher. Kyes of second I'ow largest, about tlieir diameter apart. 

 Tiiird row Ijroadest, its eyes much nearer the second row than each 

 other. Dorsal eye area loss than one-sixth the length of the coph- 

 alothorax. 



Form. — .Superior spinnerets fully double the length of the inferior. 

 Cephalothorax in front about one-half its greatest diameter, highest 

 about the middle. Chelicera about 1| times as long as the head 

 is high in front. Sternum longer than broatl. Legs rather stout. 



Dimemioua. — Length of cephalothorax, .3.4 mm. 



Length of abdomen, 4.5 mm. 



Length of first leg, 11.5 mm. 



Length of second leg, 11 mm. 



Length of fourth leg, 14 mm. 



Color ill Alcohol. — Ceplutlothorax dear ix>dilish-brown, a yellow- 

 ish submarginal band not extending to the head, a narrow buff 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 583 



median band from the middle eye? to the dorsal groove and on 

 each side of the posterior half of it a yellowish area. Sternum 

 light reddish-brown, with a darker brown margin from which 

 pointed lines radiate centrad. Abdomen above with a yellowish 

 band attenuating from in front to the spinnerets, its posterior half 

 segmented by brownish transverse lines, in the anterior half of this 

 band a narrower band ending in a point at its middle and darkest 

 laterally ; to each side of the median band a brownish band flecked 

 anteriorly with small yellow spots, and containing in its posterior 

 half a row of 4-5 larger yellowish spots. Sides yellowish, marbled 

 and streaked with brown posteriorly. Venter yellow, just behind 

 the epigynum two, posteriorly slightly converging, rows of four 

 small brown spots, the length of each row not much more than the 

 width of the epigynum. Epigynum reddish-brown, and the region 

 in front of it is darker than the region behind it. Spinnerets 

 yellowish-brown. Chelicera reddish -brown. Maxilhe brownish, 

 the labium is the same color at the tip but blackish at the base. 

 Legs reddish-brown, as are the palpi. 



Comparisons. — This form comes nearest Pirata piraticus Clerck., 

 the coloration and size of the two are quite similar (judging from 

 Emerton's description), but the epigyna are different (compare 

 Emertou's fig. 7b, PI. XLVIII). 



30. Pirata prooursus n. sp. (PI. XXX, fig. 48.) 



(2 ??, types. Stone Coll., Harvey's Lake, Luzerne county, 

 Pa.) 



Eyes. — First row about straight, nearly as long as the second. 

 Eyes of the second about 1^ times their diameter apart. Third 

 row widest, its eyes nearly as large as those of the second row, and 

 considerably nearer the second row than each other. Dorsal eye 

 area less than one-cpiarter the length of the cephalothorax. 



Form. — Superior spinnerets about double the length of the infer- 

 ior. Cephalothorax broad, in front about one-half its greatest 

 diameter, highest at the posterior eyes, its posterior declivity grad- 

 ual. Sides of head steep. Length of chelicera about IJ times 

 the height of the head in front. Sternum a little longer than broad, 

 its anterior margin slightly concave. Legs slender. 



Dimensions. — Length of cephalothorax, 3.6 mm. 



Length of abdomen, 4 mm. 



Length of first leg, 1L2 mm. 




584 PEOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [AugUSt, 



Length of second leg, 10 mm. 



Length of third leg, 11.2 mm. 



Length of fourth leg, 16 mm. 



Color in Alcohol. — Cephalothorax dark reddish-browu, eye 

 region black with whitish hairs; an indistinctly banded, broad, 

 lighter median band extends from the middle row of eyes back- 

 ward to the end of the thorax, it is as broad anteriorly as the 

 eye area, constricted in front of and again behind the median 

 groove, and narrowed in its posterior portion ; the forehead is lighter 

 than this band; the extreme margin of the thorax is blackish. 

 Sternum dark reddish-brown. Abdomen above rather iudistincily 

 marked with blackish and dark buff, as follows : a narrow buff 

 median band anteriorly, to each side of it a narrower buff baud, 

 all these ou the posterior dorsum breaking into large, ill-deliued 

 buff spots that reach to the spinnerets ; at each antero-lateral mar- 

 gin of the dorsum a black spot ; sides brownish, streaked longitudi- 

 nally with narrow buff lines ; venter yeUowish-brown and quite 

 sharply delimited from the color of the sides, without distinct mark- 

 ings. Epigynum dark reddish-brown and yellow. SpinnereU 

 yellowish, the superior ones darker. Chclicera clear reddish- 

 brown, labium and maxilla lighter. Legs reddish-brown, distinctly 

 mottled and annulated with buff on all the joints. Palpi colored 

 like the legs. 



Compariso7is. — This form is well marked by three peenliar 

 features — the structure of the epigynura, the equality in length of 

 the first and third legs (unique, to my knowledge, in tliis family), 

 and in that the posterior eyes are almost as large as the middle ones. 

 In the length of the legs it resembles a Pardo.ia, as also in the wide 

 separation of the eyes of the second row. I have decided to class 

 it as a Pirata on the ground of the great length of the superior 

 spinnerets, of the rather close approximation of the second and 

 third rows of eyes, and of the hairiness of the legs. 



Genus OCYALE Sav. and Aud. (PI. XXX, fig. 49.) 

 31. Ooyale nndata (Ilentz). 



Micrommata nudata Hentz, 1841. 



1 Micrommata scrrata Hentz, 1841. 



nee Micrommata earolinensis Hentz, 1841. 



Ocyale undata Emerton, 1885. 



Ocyale undata Hentz, Marx, 1889. 



Ocyale undata (Hentz), Stone. 1890. 



Ocyale undata Heulz, Banks, 1892. 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 585 



(Numerous specimens, but no matiu-e J'J*, from Philadelphia 

 and Chester county, Pa. ) 



£ijes. — First row broader than the second by more than the 

 diameter of one of its eyes, lateral eyes larger and a little higher. 

 Eyes f)f second row about their diameter apart. Third row 

 broadest, its eyes a little larger than those of the second row, about 

 their diameter behind that row, and placed on tubercles. Dorsal 

 eye area about one-sixth the length of the cephalothorax. 



Form,. — Cephalothorax broad and flat, highest at the posterior 

 eyes, in front more than one-half its greatest transverse diameter. 



Length of chelicera about If times the height of the head in 

 front. Sternum nearly as long as broad, nearly straight in front, 

 pointed behind. Legs slender. Superior spinnerets twice the 

 length of the inferior. 



Dimensions, ?. — Length of cephalothorax, 5.5 mm. 



Length of abdomen, 8.5 mm. 



Length of first leg, 24.5 mm. 



Length of second leg, 24.5 mm. 



Length of third leg, 20 mm. 



Length of fourth leg, 24 nmi. 



Color in Life, ?. — Cephalothorax above brownish-yellow, with 

 a broad brown median stripe from the posterior eyes to the end of 

 the thorax, an interrupted brown submargiual stripe ou each side, 

 extreme margin of head brown ; all these brown areas are due to 

 the absence of hairs upon them, the yellowish-brown to the presence 

 of hairs which are longest on the sides of the head ; posterior eyes 

 on black tubercles. Sternum light yellowish-brown, margins a 

 little darker. Abdomen above with a pale and indistinctly boimded 

 reddish-brown stripe, which is nearly as broad as the dorsum, 

 extends its entire length, and is scalloped along its posterior half ; 

 bounding each side of the anterior third of this stripe is a narrow 

 yellow stripe, and on the posterior half of the doi"sum on each side 

 a row of five yellow spots (in a line with these yellow stripes), 

 of which the most anterior are elongated and largest ; in the 

 median line of the anterior half of the broad reddish-brown dor- 

 sal stiipe is a slightly darker brown stripe, also bordered anteriorly 

 with narrow yellow lines, and with a row of five yellow spots 

 behind each of these lines. The sides are indistinctly streaked with 

 yellow and brown. The venter pale yellowish-brown, with a 




586 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [AugUSt, 



rather indistinct, broad, darker median stripe containing a nar- 

 rower light one. Spinnerets brown. Epigynum black. Lung 

 boolcs yellow. Chelicera pale reddish-brown. Maxilkv and labium 

 pale brown, the latter with darker base. Legs reddish-brown with 

 buff hairs and black sjjines, but no distinct annulations. Palpi 

 colored like the legs. 



Comparisons. — ^Hentz's Micrommata carolinensis cannot be con- 

 sidered a sjnionym of undata, as Emerton and Marx have done, 

 since Hentz placed carolinensis in the tribe of the BiarcuaUe, in 

 which the " upper and lower rows of eyes [are] bent and opposed." 



Genus DOLOMEDES Latr. 



The following key wiU help to distinguish the species here 

 described, but the structure of the copulatory organs is the only 

 sure diagnostic character; there is one ? of what is probably 

 D. sexpunctatits Hcnlz in the 8tone collection, but I have not 

 included it since it is not mature : 



A. — Posterior portion of the abdomen with transverse yellow 



markings of the shape of a W, urinator. 



B. — Posterior portion of the abdomen not so marked, . idoneus. 



32. Dolomedes urinator Hentz. (PI XXX, flg. 50.) 



Dolomedes urinntor Ilcntz, 1841. 

 1 Dolomedes ten ebnisjiK Hentz, Enicrton, 1885. 

 Dolomedes urinator Hentz, Marx, 1880. 

 Dolomedes tenebrosus Hentz, Stone, 1890. 

 '! Dolomedes urinator Hentz, Bunks, 1892. 



(??, but no c?c?, from Philadelphia, Chester county, Bucks 

 county, Lancaster county, York Furnace, Pa. ) 



Eyes. — First row broader than the second by less than the 

 diameter of one of its lateral eyes, lateral eyes slightly larger and 

 higher. Eyes of the second row slightly more than their diame- 

 ter apart. Third row broader tliaii first, its eyes fully a.s large as 

 the eyes of the second row. 



Form. — ("ephalothorax flat and broad, rounded, its greatest 

 diameter cquahng the length from the tliird eye row backward, in 

 front more than one-half its greatest trausvei-se diameter, highest 

 behind the middle. Chelicera less than twice the heiglit of the 

 head in front. Logs slender. Sternum brojider than long. 



Dimetmons. — Length of cephalothorax, 10.5 mm. 



Length of abdomen, 14 ram. 



Lengtli of first leg, 42 mm. 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENX'ES OF PHILADELPHIA. 587 



Leugtli of second leg, 43 mm. 



Length of third leg, 40 mm. 



Length of fourth leg, 43 mm. 



Color in Alcohol. — Cephalothorax brown or deep reddish-browu, 

 a jjair of wedge-shaped black spots close together just in front of 

 the median groove, a narrow pale median line between tlese which 

 is sometimes continued forward as far as the plane of the posterior 

 eyes, and generally backward around the median groove to the 

 posterior end of the thorax ; on each side a curved yellow line 

 extends from the posterior eye backward to the wedge-shaped spot 

 of the corresponding side, the space enclosed by these two lines 

 being oval and widest behind and redder than tlie rest of the 

 cephalothorax ; the extreme margin of the thorax black, on each 

 side a more or less distinct, broad, yellowish submarginal band, 

 sometimes broken into large spots, and with yellow bands radiating 

 from it to the median groove ; a small black mark at the posterior 

 margin of each posterior eye. Sternum yellowish or reddish- 

 brown, with either a lighter median line or a triangular lighter 

 area. Abdomen above deep brown, with yellowish and blackish 

 markings as follows: A rather broad yellowish median stripe 

 extending to about the middle, enlarged at its middle and forked 

 at its posterior end, a pair of narrow and short lines of the same 

 color connecting with it at an angle on each side, and all these 

 edged laterally with black ; on the posterior half of the dorsum 

 transverse yellow markings, each edged anteriorly with black, of 

 angular form and with the convexity directed forward, or more or 

 less of the shape of a W ; they are 4-6 in number and the more 

 anterior ones are wider. In sj)ecimens from West Chester the 

 whole dorsum is much darker, the yellow and black markings very 

 obscure, while on the posterior half are 4-5 pairs of small while 

 spots. Sides of the abdomen brownish. Venter with a yellowish 

 or yellowish -brown mark extending in front from the lung slits, 

 where it is as broad as these, backward to the spinnerets where it 

 is much narrower, this light area banded on each side by a row of 

 minute blackish dots, and sometimes containing narrow dark lines. 



Epigynum reddish-brown, the region in front of it yellowish. 

 Chelicera dark reddish-brown, mazUke and labium of the same 

 color, but their distal ends yellow. Legs brownish below ; above 

 darker reddish-brown with liuff markings on the femora and more 




588 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [AugUSt, 



obscui'e ring.< on the other joints, the distal ends of the tibia; aud 

 tarsi black. Palpi amiulated buff and reddish-brown. 



Comparisons. — Of all the species of Dolomedes described by 

 Hentz D. urinator is most similar to this one. It agrees with his 

 fig. 3, PI. XVI, in the eyes and the general coloration, but his 

 description is verj' meagre. Whether the foi"m described by Einer- 

 ton is te7)ebrosus Hentz I cannot decide from his description, aud 

 Emerton's figure of the epigynum (9c, PI. XLIX) shows differ- 

 ences from the species described by me. 

 33. Dolomedes idoneus n. sp. (PI. XXX, fig. 51.) 



(?, type, Westchester, Pa., author's collection ; another mature 

 ? from Harvey's Lake, Luzerne county, Pa., Stone Coll.) 



Eyeg. — First row broader than the second by about half the diam- 

 eter of one of its lateral eyes which are slightly higher and slightly 

 smaller. Eyes of the second row not quite their diameter apart. 

 Third row widest, its eyes about as large as tho.se of the second row. 



Form. — Cephalothorax much of the same form as in urinalor. 

 Chelicera massive, their length less than twice the height of the 

 head in front. Legs stouter than in urinator. Sternum a little 

 longer than broad. 



Dimensions. — Length of cephalothorax, 10.2 mm. 



Length of abdomen, 12.5 mm. 



Length of first leg, 40 mm. 



Length of second leg, 39.2 mm. 



Length of third leg, 37 mm. 



Length of fourth leg, 41 mm. 



Color in Alcohol, type. — Cephalothorax rei\(k\s\\-\iYO\<n, its mark- 

 ings very similar to those of D. urinator, but no black mark at the 

 posterior ej'es, and the wedge-shaped marks just in front of the 

 dorsal groove very indistinct. Sternum yellowish with l)lackish 

 margin. Abdomen above yellow and brownish-black, the yellow 

 forming a median stripe on the anterior third of the dorsum ending 

 posteriorly in a blunt point, a large spot on the middle, irregular 

 arches on the sides of the dorsum, and a median row of indistinct 

 spots on the posterior doi"sum ; sides dark-lmnvnish, somewhat 

 streaked with yellowish ; venter behind the lung .slits brown, lighter 

 than the sides, with two parallel dark lines on each side of the 

 raid-line. Epifjunum black, except the large rounded part which 

 is bright red. Lung books paler than the venter. Chelicera deep 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 589 



black, labium aud maxilkr black basally but yellowish distally. 

 Legs distinctly marked and anuulated with deep reddish-brown and 

 yellowish on all the joints except the metatarsi, which are black- 

 ish. The palpi are coJored like the legs. 



Comparisons. — This form differs mai'kedly in the epigjTium 

 from the form here described as uvinator, but is otherwise very 

 similar. 



I have been obliged to describe it as a new species, though Ihe 

 same form may have been previously described, for the following 

 reasons: of the described American larger species of Dolomedes, 

 those of Walckenaer and C. Koch are altogether insufficiently 

 characterized. Of Hentz's species, tenax and hastulatus are ex- 

 cluded by the character of their eyes, and aexpunctatus by its 

 smaller size and very different coloration, and scriptus, albineus 

 and lanceolatus by their different coloration. There remains 

 D. tenehrosfiis, Hentz's full description of which is as follows: 

 " Livid brown; abdomen aud ce})halothorax varied with blackish 

 angular markings; feet annulated with blackish; frequently meas- 

 uring over four inches from the extremity of the first pair of legs 

 to that of the fourth pair; male with legs 1, 2, 4, 3." This form 

 may be identical with my idoneus, but Hentz's description charac- 

 terizes no better than do any of Walckenaer' s, and Hentz's figure 

 of the eyes (fig. 12, PL XIX) does not agree with the eye 

 arrangement in idoneus; and further, Henlz states \ha.iieiiebrosus 

 " does not seek the vicinity of water, near which it was never 

 seen, but dwells generally in elevated dr}' places," while both 

 specimens of idoneus were found near water. Hentz's description 

 is not adequate in this genus where the structure of the copulatory 

 organs is a necessary diagnostic, and it is best to regard tenebrosus 

 as insufficiently characterized, to drop the name, and thus avoid 

 future futile attempts to recognize it. 



D. idoneus is readily distinguished in its epigyuum from the form 

 described by Emerton as "D. tenebrosus Hentz," yet Hentz's de- 

 scription applies equally well to Emerton' s specimens as to those of 

 idoneus. 



Banks slates of D. scriptus Hentz : ' ' What has been taken as 

 D. tenebrosus Hentz is this species. What I feel sure is D. scriptus 

 H. has the epigyuum as figured by Emerton for Z>. tenebrosus and 

 very similar to that of D. scajndaris as figured by Iveyserling. 




•590 PEOCEEDIXGS OF THE ACADEJIY OF [AugUSt, 



D. lenebrosits H. has a iiiucli broafler epigynum aiul a liroad sep- 

 tum, which does not, however, cover the cavity." I do not 

 understand how we may feel confident of ever identifying fe»e- 

 brosm, and Keyserling's figiu-e of the epigynum of scapularu is 

 quite different from mine of idoneus. 



Family OXYOPID^E. 



Characters of the Famibj. — The same charactci's as in the Lyco- 



sidce, except that the eyes are arranged in three rows or four rows, 



2. 2. 4., or 2. 2. 2. 2. The eyes of the first row are never 



largest. 



Genus OXYOPES Latr. 



34. Oxyopes salticus Hentz. (PI. XXX. fig. 52.) 



Oxyopes salticus Hentz, 1841. 

 Oxyopes gracilis Keyserling, 1876. 

 Oxyopes saltiois Hentz, Marx, 1889. 

 Oxyopes astutus Hentz, Banks, 1891. 



(2 mature ? ? from Philadelphia, Pa., author's collection.) 



Eyes. — Eyes of the first row smallest, more than their diameter 

 apart, much nearer the second row than to the edge of the fore- 

 head, removed le.«s than their diameter from the second row. Eyes 

 of second row largest, separated 1^ times their diameter. Third 

 row broadest, ils eyes separated by less than tiieir diameter from 

 the second row. Fourth row slightly broader than the second, 

 its eyes about double their diameter apart. Tlie eyes of the 

 second, third and fourlh rows on black tubercles. 



Form. — Cephalothorax broad and short but high, highest at the 

 middle, in front more than one-half its greatest transverse diame- 

 ter. Length of the chelicera not quite the height of the head in 

 front. Sternum longer than broad. Superior and inferior spin- 

 nerets of equal length. Legs slender with very long spines. 



Dimensions. — Length of cephalothorax, "2.9 mm. 



I^ength of abdomen, 3 mm. 



Length of first leg, 10.4 nun. 



Ijength of .second leg, 9.5 mm. 



IjCngth of third leg, 9.7 nun. 



Ix'ugth of fourth leg, 9 mm. 



Color in Alcohol. — Cephalothorax above light yoliow, two 

 blackish-brown stripes arise at the posterior eyes and pa.<s caudad 

 and unite at the very indistinct median groove, and a pair of 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 591 



similarly colored broader stripes arise at the third pair of eyes aud, 

 arching backward on the sides, unite dorsally behind the median 

 groove ; all these stripes composed of hairs which readily rub off, 

 the thorax elsewhere being hairless ; from each eye of the first row 

 a narrow black stripe passes ventrad across the forehead and 

 nearly to the end of the chelicera ; there are two small black spots 

 and, most dorsally, a short black sli-ipe on each lateral margin of 

 the head ; the region between the second and third eye rows is 

 blackish. Sternum yellow with blackish spots on the margins. 

 Abdomen above with a broad lancet-shaped mark, margioed (espe- 

 cially posteriorly) by black, ending pointed at the middle of the 

 dorsum, this stripe is surrounded on each side by a narrower clear 

 yellow band, these two yellow bands joining just behind the middle 

 and continuing back to the spinnerets as a single median line, and 

 this median yellow line is margined on each side by a blackish 

 stripe ; the remainder of the dorsum is yellow or yellowish-brown. 

 Sides of the abdomen streaked with black lines which continue 

 backward to the spinnerets, but do not extend anteriorly beyond 

 the transverse plane of the epigynum. Venter pale yellow or 

 orange, a longitudinal median black mark (with lighter centre) 

 in one specimen, in the other a pair of short parallel longitudinal 

 black stripes, in neither specimen do these black markings extend 

 along the whole extent of the venter behind the epigynum. 

 Epigynum nearly black. Chelicera and maxillw pale yellow like 

 the sternum, labium darker. Legs pale greenish -yellow with black 

 spines, the ventral surface of femora I-III with a longitudinal 

 black line. Palpi colored like the legs, but with no black stripe. 



LiTERATDRE CiTED. 



189ta. Banks, N. Notes on some Spiders described by Heutz. Ento- 



molog. Ne%os. Philadelpiiia. 3. 

 18916. Idem. Synouymical Notes iu Spiders. IMd. 

 1893. Idem. The Spider Fauna of the Upper Cayuga Lalie Basin. 



Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Philadelphia. 

 1846. Blackwall, J. Notice of Spiders captured by Professor Potter 



in Canada. Ann. and Marj. Nat. HiU. XVII. 

 1757. Clerck, C. Sveuska Spiiidlar. Aranea sueeici. 

 1885. Emerton, J. H. New England Lycosida;. Trans. Con. Acad. 8. 

 1895. Idem. Canadian Spiders. Ibid, 9. 

 1775. Fabricids, J. C. Systema entomologica, etc. 

 1831-1834. Hahn, C. W. Die Arachnidela getreu nach der Natur 



abgebildet uud beschriebea. 

 1899. Hancock, J. L. The Castle-building Spider (Lycosa Domifex). 



Entomol. News. Philadelphia, 10. 

 1841. Hentz, N. M. Descriptions and Figures of the Araneides of the 



United States. Boston Journ. Nat. Hist. 4 




592 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [AugUSt, 



1876 Kbtseiiling, E. Ueber amerikanische Spinnenarten tier Untei- 



ordnung Citigradffi. Verh. zool.-bot. Oes. Wien. 

 1836-1848. Koch, C. Die Arachniden. 



1881 Maex. On some new tube-constructing Spiders. Amer. Jyat. 

 1889. Idem. Catalogue of the described Aranea; of Temperate North 



America. Proc. ^^at. Mm. Washington. 13. 

 1878. McCooK H. C. Trans. Amer. Ent. Soc. VII. 

 1877. ScDDDER, S. H. The tubeconstructmg Ground Spider ot JNan- 



tucliet. Psyche. II. m o r> • 



1876 Simon, E. Les Arachnides de France, T. 3. l^aris. 

 1890 Stone, W. Pennsylvania and New .lersey Spiders ot the t amily 



Lycosida;. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Philadelphia. 

 1875. Thorell, T. Notice on some Spiders from Labrador. Proc. 



Boston Soc. Nat. Hist. 17. „ , r < 



1837. Walckenakr, M. lb Baron. Histoire naturelle des Insectes, 



Aptires. (Suites a BufiFou.) Paris. 



Explanation op Plates XXIX and XXX. 



All the figures are drawn with the aid of (he camera lucida and reduced 

 one-half. All the figures of S' P^lpi ^xhtbit the right palpt 

 from the ventral surface, and in most of them 

 the hairs have been omitted. 

 Plate XXIX, Fig, \.—Lycosa nigra (Stone), type, eplgynum. 

 Fio- i.—Lvcosa sublata a. sp., type, epigynum. 

 Figs. 3. A.—Lycosa ocreata pulchra n. subsp., types, epigynum, 



r? palpus. . _ , 



Fin-s 5 i.—Lycosa relucens n. sp., types, epigynum, c? palpus. 

 p'iS 7 —Lycosa sepulchralis n. sp., type, epigynum. 

 Ficr 8 —Lycosa charouoides n. sp., type, epigynum. 

 Fi?8. 9, \(>.— Lycosa stonei n. sp., epigynum, (j^ palpus. 

 Figs. 11, 12.— Lycosa terisimiUs n. sp., types, epigynum, cf palpus. 

 pi(r \Z.'— Lycosa arenicola Scud., eiiigynum. 

 KiS 14 —Lycosa pnnctulata Ilentz, epigynum. 

 Fics ir. 16— Lycosa scutulata Ilentz, epigynum, d' palpus'. 

 Fies' 17 18.— Li/cosa cinerea (Fnbr.), epigynum, J' paipus 

 Fil,' 19 20—lAjcosa caroUnensis Walck., epigynum, d^ palpus. 

 FiSs' 21, 22— Lycosa inhonesta (Keys.), epigynum, .^' palpus. 

 Figs 38 34 —Lycosa nidicola Emerton, epigynum, (f palpus. 

 FiS 2a.— Lycosa baltimoriana (Keys.), S'' palpus. 

 Figs. 26, 21.— Lycosa lepida (Keys.), epigynum, J' palpus. 

 Plate°XXX, Figs. 28, 29.— Lycosa frondicola Emerton, epigynum, cj' 



Figs io Sh-Lycosa purcelli n. sp., epigynum, (^palpus. 

 Fits 32-34 —Pardoaa nigropalpis Em., epigyna, ci palpus. 

 Fils' 35, Z^.-Pardosa minima (Keys.), epigynum, rf palpus. 

 Figs 37, Z%.—Pardosa scita n. sp., types, epigynum, cT' palpus. 

 Fie 39.— ParrfoM solixaga n. sp., type, epigynum. „ ,„„„ 



Fies 40 41 -Pirata humicoUis n. sp., types, epigynum, c? palpus. 

 Fies' 42 i-^.-Pirata liber n. sp.. types, epigynum, <f_ palpus. 

 Figs! 44! 45 —iHrata nigromaculatna n. sp., types, epig. cT palpus. 

 pi„ 46.— Arn<a elegans Stone, type, epigynum. 

 Pig Yl.— Pirata marxi Stone, type, epigynum. 

 pjjT 4% —I^rata procursus n. pp., type, ejiigynum. 

 Fig. A^.—Ocyalc undata (Ilent/.), epigynum. 

 Fig 50.—I)olo7nedes urinator Ilentz, epigynum. 

 Fig fil.—Dolomed,s idoneus n. p|)., epigynum. 

 Ti'r. 52.— Oxyope8 saltieui Ilentz, epigynum. 

 Fig. bZ.—Lj/cota nigraurata n. sp., cT palpus. 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



593 



September 16. 

 Mr. Arthur Erwin Brown, Vice-President, in the Chair. 

 Ten persons present. 



ty wl aXh' ■'°"'""' «'""<M«™-"- A„ct.v 



" Notes on an Ant," by Adele M. Fielde. 

 Pristiloma idahoense n. sp. 



coSs,^'3^:iL£'':St t f ^'i ^°^ TT'^' ^<^"°-^ 



near the snfnJ wi i ^ ^ °' ^'^''^* growth-lines, stronger 



thr,2r t'robt i^rtix^^^^^ ^--asinT 



beneath, only slightly LSd .fft, P^"P^fO% very convex 



collected by Rev. E.H. Ashmun SSl ' °''' ^"•' "=^^°' 



189? ?:^-^^:'lt^^,f t'^Srt"^'^' by the speaker in 

 with /^ lansin,i ^dR.r^ica'-u2dZT ^l^' ^^^ 

 mg more and narrower whorls, a hi^^her peri Zv .i '" ^'^^■ 



The death of Willia.n N. Lockington, a member, was announced. 




594 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Sept., 



September 28. 

 Mr. Arthur Erwin Brown, Vice-President, in the Chair. 



Ten persons present. 



The death of Rudolf Yirchow, a correspondent, was announced. 



September 30. 

 Mr. Arthur Erwin Brows, Vice-President, in the Chair. 



Seven persons present. 



A paper entitled " Contributions toward a l^nowledge of the 

 Orthoptera of Japan, T— Acridida;," by James A. G. Rehn, was 

 presented for publication. 



The following were ordered to be printed : 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 



595 



ON THE OENHS PHRYKOTETXIX Olo.e. (HALBEMAN.LLA Auet., 

 BY JAMES A. G. KEHN. 



The genus Phrynotettix was erected in 1S79 „„ .j,^ « 

 specimen from the Pecos river Texas Tn nl" m ^'"■' °^ ^ 



been entirely disregarded since, nearly all autho?^ -^ °^ ^'/ 

 erence to Saussure's later name HaM^^l. Th LS^a?/ 

 of Phrynoiettlv is clearly reco-^nizable anrrfl, \''''^'''''\ %"^e 



PHRYNOTETTIX Glover. 

 P'^ynotem. Glover, Illustr. N. Amer. Entom., Onh., P, VI fi. 35' 



Type -Phrynotettix vermculatus Gloyer = En]nnn;n. , a • 

 ve««w Haldemau. J^pnippigera tnhwa- 



Key to Sjtedes {based on females). 



'^■"'''Sr'ltSS^lSd^^^T-^^' ^-'^^ costa not mark- 

 by 'a definite Sot 2 ia"\T^"^^'.'™^^ ^■-''^-■'" 

 ««— Pronolum of female 00^,70,™;' /f"^«^'^«*'-* (Haldemanj. 

 stricted dorsad anTtS^^^^^^^^ ^'^l^ considerably con- 

 low Gallons carina, P'^'''^®'' *'°'" fastigunn by a single 

 taosoHus n. sji. 




596 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Sept., 



Phrynotettix tshivavensis (Haldenmn). 



Ephippiqira ishivuvensis^ Ilaldemau, Stsinsbury's Exped. to the 



Great 'Salt Lake, p. 371, PI. X, fig. 3, 1853. (Chihuahua 

 Ephippigera tsdiiraveiisis Walker, Cat. Derm. Salt. Brit. Mus., Ill, 



p. 545, 1870. (Utah.) ^ _ ^ ^ ,. 



Pkrynoteitix verrvcuhita Glover. Illust. N. Amer. Entoiu., Orth., 



PI VI. fig. 25, 1872. (Pecos River, Texas.) 

 Eremohia magna Thomas, Kept. U. S. Geogr. Sury. West 100th 



Merid , V p. 880, PI. XLIII, fig. 5, 1875. (Lower Arizona.) 

 nialilmanelht] Tschivavensis Saussure, Addit. Prodr. Q'^dipodiorum, 



p. 1.53, 1888. ^^ „ „., „, 



Ealdtmanella robiista Bruner, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XII. p. 81, 



1890. (Southern Arizona.) 

 Eahlemannia ischicavensii Townsend, Insect Life, VI, p. oi, io»o. 



(Las Cruces, New Mexico.) „ , t^ rw .i » tt a 



[HaUUmaneUa'] tschivavensis Scudder, Catal. Descr. Orthopt. U. a. 



and Can., p. 44, 1900. , „ „ r. 



Haldemunella verruculata Scudder and Cockerell, Proc. Davenport 



Acad. Sci., IX, p. 39, 1903. (Organ Mountains, New Mexico.) 



Distribution. — Pre\-iously recorded from Chihuahua, Pecos 

 river, Tex. ; lower and southern Arizona, La Cucva, Organ moun- 

 tains, and Las Cruces iu New jMexico, besides a record pulilLshed 

 by Riley of one immature specimen from the Argus mountains, 

 Inyo county, Cal., the latter specimen bein<j now before me. The 

 record from Utah, given by AValkcr and generaUy followed, 

 is no doubt erroneous. Walker had no material himself, and the 

 original specimen described by Haldeman came from Chihuahua. 

 The locality Utah was probably assumed from the title of the 

 work in whicli Ilaldcman published. 



The series examined includes the following localities: El Pa.<o, 

 Tex., March .31, 1902, and Alamogordo, Otero county, N. M., May 

 13, 15)02 (Viereck and Kehn); Lake Valley, Sierra county, 

 N. M. (Cope); Shovel Mount, Burnet county, Tex., July 31, 

 1901 (F. G. Schaupp). 



Synonymy.— An examination of the published figures and de- 

 scriptions of the forms which I have included under this species 

 will show that they are identical, the slight differences which are 

 jipparciit being mainly in the figures, and can be accounted for 

 by the fact that several of them lack a considerable ])orlion of the 

 detail of tlie in.-^ect. The original figure by Haldeman is very 

 goo<i, in fact the best published, and Bruncr's lyi>es of robusta 



' In the original form of the species naldenian introduced In the first 

 syllable the flebrew letter rrsh, lo give the proper sound to the Latin- 

 ized u luic Walker translated it scli, but sh is sullicient. 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 597 



(two of which I have examined) exactly fit it except for one 

 trifling character, whicli the series examined shows to be a very 

 variable one, namely, the obtuse-angulate or rotundate character 

 of the caudal angle of the lateral lobes of the prouotum. Colora- 

 tion appears to bear absolutely no weight as a diagnostic char- 

 acter, and is only of interest in that the males are deeper and more 

 richly colored than the females. 



Some measurements of the pronotum, in comparison with that of 

 the new species, may be of interest : 



Females. Length. width^' 



P. iihivavensis : 



Chihuahua (^from Haldeman), ... 14 mm. 9 mm. 



Lower Arizona (from Thomas), . . 18.7 " 12.5 " 



Southern Arizona (from Bruuer), . . 22 " 15 " 



Lake Valley, N. M., ..... 20 5 " 13 " 



AJamogordo, N. M., 23 " 15 " 



P. taosanus : 



Taos Valley, N. M. (type), ... 17. " 12.5" 



Phrynotettix taosanus n. sp. 



Type. — 'i ; Taos Valley, Taos county, N. M., June, 1883. 

 Collection of the U. S. jSTational Museum. 



The most important differential characters are given in the key 

 of the species. The median carina of the melazoua is also very 

 apparent, while in tshivavensls it is obsolete ;- the transverse sulci 

 are also more arcuate in iaosana, and the central portion of the 

 caudal region of the prozona more tuberoulate. 



Body short and broad. Head with the vertex about equally 

 long as broad (decidedly broader than long in females of tshiva- 

 venaisj, median carina distinct and extending to the tip of the 

 fastigium; frontal costa compressed above and separated from 

 the fastigium by a distinct rugose carina, below the ocellus strongly 

 compressed and obsolete, sidcate throughout; eyes rather small, 

 very much shorter than the infraocular geute. Prouotum rather 

 short, broad and cordiform in outline, the surface heavily rugose 

 as characteristic of the genas, cephalic border subarcuate, the 

 lateral carina strongly constricted cephalad, the caudal margins 

 straight ; median carina distinct but most developed on the meta- 



- In immature specimens tliis carina is very distiuct, but the type of 

 taosana is a fully adult female, and the presence of a distinct median 

 carina cannot be laid to immaturity. 




598 PROCEEDINGS OK THE ACADEMY OF [Sept., 



zona, the central regiou of the jirozoua heavily tuberculale, llie 

 posterior portion strongly developed ; trausvei-se sulci arcuate, 

 particularly the second and third ; lateral lobes with the ventro- 

 caudal angle obtuse-angulate, the central portion of the lobe 

 liearing a considerable depression which extends caudad and dorsad 

 from the ventre -cephalic angle. Tegmina not exceeding the tip 

 of the prouotum in length, the reticulations veiy close (in ishiva- 

 voisis these are much coai"ser aud the principal veins are more 

 apparent). Abdomen not exceeding the hind femora in k-ngtli, 

 the dorsal aspect keeled. 



General color reddish-brown, the exernal faces of the femora 

 marked with ochraceous. 



MeasuremenU. 



Total length, 34.5 mm. 



Ivength of pronotuiu, 17 " 



Greatest width of prouotum 12.5 " 



Visible length of tegmina 7.5 " 



Ijenglh of hind femora lo 



Specimens Examined. — One, the ty[H'. 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 599 



NOTES ON AN ANT. 

 BY ADELE M. FIELDE. 



There is no regeneration of the antennae. —A queeu of Stenainma 

 fulvum piceuni^ deprived of her antennEe in July, 1901, lived iu 

 one of my artificial nests with workers and other queens until 

 January 5, 1902, and gave uo indication of regenerating the lost 

 organs. Of the manj^ ants whose antennas were wholly or par- 

 tially excised by me in 1901, in the experiments made upon the 

 ants' sense of smell," some lived several months, but none ever 

 showed sign of regenerating any excised part. 



Ability to live in isolation. — On the 27th of August, 1900, I 

 took three workers from an apple-core lying by the roadside and 

 segregated them in a Petri cell, from which they were never re- 

 moved. One died February 23, 1902; one died March 1, 1902, 

 and one is still living, September, 1902, the survivor having lived 

 alone more than six months. She busies herself with the inert 

 young that I lend to her and reclaim before they hatch, and she 

 appears to be healthy and happy. She is wholly lame, and 

 evinces no desire to leave her cell when I take off its cover; but 

 she seems to enjoy disporting herself upon my hand, or upon the 

 hand of another person, where she will voluntarily stay for long 

 periods. She appears to have, concerning human hands, unex- 

 plained preferences which do not depend on acquaintance, tem- 

 perature or race. 



Familiarity u'lih the nest-aura does not reconcile aliens. — Two of 

 my small nests,' one containing ants of the C colony, the other 

 containing ants of the G colony, Iiave stood in juxtaposition one 

 year, and have been cleaned weekly with the same appliances, but 



' The writer is in her third year of study of this ant. It is the species 

 under consideration in this paper iu every case, unless another species is 

 named. 



2 "Further Study of an Ant," Proceedings of the Academy of Sciences 

 of Philadelphia, October, 1901. 

 " ■* " Portable Ant Nests," Biolor/ieal Bulletin, Vol. 3, No. 3, 1900. 




600 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Sept., 



the inmates of the two nests continue to fight each other on meet- 

 ing, as they did when first taken from their natural nests. 



Kings. — The kinc/s have the didiiictive odor of their blood rela- 

 tione. — July, 1902, I isolated, each in a Petri cell, eight deiilated 

 queens, more than one year old, and representing two corarauuities. 

 Into each of the cells I introduced, one at a time, several kings, 

 but a few days or few weeks old, and with no previous association 

 with any of these queens. In every case the queen was at once 

 friendly, and continued for many days to be friendly, with all 

 kings of her own colony, but was so hostile to kings of any alien 

 colony that slie avoided or killed every alien king introduced. 

 She must have recognized colony odor in these kings. The kings 

 appear to be deficient in the sense of smell. They at, times, espe- 

 cially in the light, and on warm days, become wildly amorous 

 upon contact of tlie head with a queen, a worker or another king, 

 regardless of the lineage of either. The kings are not clever, never 

 follow a trail, never take part in the care of the young, and are at 

 all times dependent. They can lap food for themselves; but I have 

 seen so many as three kings feeding at the same time from the 

 mouth of one worker, while other kings stood aiouud as if waiting 

 their turn to be fed. 



Queens. — It may be .said of the (jueeus that while virgin the)' 

 manifest marked preference or dislike toward certain kings. 

 Having once mated they aflerwai'd permit no close approach of an 

 alien king. They condone the stupidity of kings of their own 

 lineage, and tolerate from them attentions to which no response is 

 conceded. 



It has been affirmed that workers remove the wings from fer- 

 tilized queens. That a queen may drop her wings witliout jissist- 

 ance was shown by two living in my nests. Both were hatched on 

 August 5, 1902, from pup:c taken by me from tlie natural nest on 

 August 3, and they both nuitcd in captivity on August 22, when 

 seventeen days old, with kings a few days old, and of their own 

 colony. As soon as they had mated I again isolated each, and 

 each dropped her wings within a few days upoii the floor of her 

 solitary cell. 



/'A (|ueen may defer mating for a year at least, and then mate 

 with a king a year younger than herself, and may, later on, begin 

 the laying of eggs. Light and warmth apjiear to be required for 




1902.] NATORAL SCIKiVCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 601 



stimulation of the king and queen to mating, and it may be tliat 

 queens hatched late in summer do not mate until tlie next succeed- 

 ing summer. A winged queen taken by me from the natural nest 

 of the C colony, August 22, 1901, had no opportunity to mate 

 until September 24, when I put into the artificial nest where she 

 lived several kings of the II colony, just taken from the ground. 

 These kings all died within a few days, and the queen probably did 

 not mate during 1901, as slie retained her wings and laid no eggs 

 throughout the winter of 1901-1902. She had no association with 

 any king between September, 1901, and July 6, 1902, when I put 

 into the Petri cell where she was then isolated a king of her own 

 colony, five days old. She at once seized him gently by a wing, 

 and presently licked him from end to end. She could not have 

 mated earlier than .July 6, and may not have mated until August, 

 when I put other kings and also workers, all of her own colonv, 

 into her cell: On August 20, 1902, she lost her wings, having 

 worn them a year or more. She laid her first egg on August 24, 

 four days after losing her wings. 



Another winged queen, also taken from the natural nest of the 

 C colony on August 22, 1901, had no opportunity to mate until 

 .September 21, when I put into her habitation two kings of her 

 own colony. She probably did not mate with either of them, for 

 she retained her wings and laid no eggs throughout the winter of 

 1901-1902. There were no males in the nest where she lived from 

 September, 1901, to July 13, 1902. On the latter date, after 

 she had been isolated one month, I put into the Petri cell where 

 she then lived a king of her own colony, and several workers. 

 The king was but four days old, but may have mated immediately 

 with the still winged queen. She lost her wings on the; 10th of 

 August, having worn them nearly a year since her capture. On 

 the 14th of August she laid lier first egg, and on the 20th she had 

 eight eggs. 



Memory. — Have the ants an intellectual meraorv ? 



Experiment a. — In one of my artificial nests were four deiilated 

 queens of the C colony, taken by me from their natural nest near 

 Wood's Hole, Mass., September 7, 1900, with workers. On the 

 23d of September, 1901, I put into this nest some pupre of Formica 

 fusca subsericea, and five days later one of these pupse hatched, 

 and was permitted to live with the resident Stenammas. The 




602 PEOCEEDIXGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Sept., 



Formica was somewhat larger than eitlier of the Stenamnia queens, 

 and was very active. She remained in association, at times, with 

 these queens imtil November 28, a period of two mouths, and was 

 then finally removed from their nest. Five and a half months 

 later. May 11, 1902, I put the four queens into a clean Petri cell, 

 and introduced to their cell a Formica fiisca subsericea from Cen- 

 tral Park, New York City. The introduced Formica exhibited 

 great fear in the presence of the Stenamma queens, and made 

 energetic efforts to escape from the cell ; but the queens showed 

 neither fear nor dislike of the Formica, and never opened their 

 mandibles when I forced the Formica to touch them. Tlie fears of 

 the Formica gradually subsided, and after two weeks' residence 

 she would touch auteun;e with the queens in most friendly fashion. 

 The Formica was thereafter often huddled with the queens, and she 

 lived with them until May 31, 1902, when the four queens were 

 killed by an accident. The Formica survived and I put her into a 

 similar cell with C colony queens that had never fostered a For- 

 mica. These queens separately and together attacked the Formica 

 and killed her after two days' persecution. It is possible that the 

 odor of the Formica remained in the nest inhabited by the four 

 Stenamma queens, and that they had not to exercise memory in 

 the case. But the odor of the AVood's Hole Formica and that of 

 the Central Park Formica was not identical, for I put Formica 

 fmca mbsericea of these two places together and fomid that they 

 fought each other to the death. 



Experiment b. — On the 22d of August, 1901, I sequestered 

 pupie and larvie from the natural nest of the C colony, and then 

 segregated ants hatched therefrom between September 4 and Sep- 

 tember 10. These segregated ants had no association with any 

 other ant. On the 26th of September a large Formica fii.icu •sub- 

 sericea hatched out from a pupa that I had put into their cell three 

 days earlier, and it was kindly cared for by the little Stenammas, 

 although it wa« four or five time,* their size. On the 6th of Octo- 

 ber, the Stenammas being about one month old and the Formica 

 ten days old, I separated them, putting the Stenammas into one 

 clean Petri cell and the Formica into another. The inhabited cells 

 were respectively cleaned once a week,* and were cleaned seven 



*The cells were cleaned, after temporarily removing the ants to 

 another clean cell, by washing the cell and its enclosed sponge with 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 603 



times. On the 24tli of November, after fifty days of separation, I 

 put the Stenammas, now only two in number, into a clean cell, and 

 introduced the Formica. The Formica was in as complete a panic 

 as could have been one of its kind that had never seen a Stenamraa. 

 She ran from the Stenammas, snapped at them wheu forced into 

 proximity, and gave starts of terror wheu coming inailvertently 

 into touch with them. The Stenammas, on the contrar)-, showed 

 neither fear nor dislike of the big foster-child that had been 

 returned to them. The fear manifested by the Formica gradually 

 diminished, and after about two weeks together the Formica would 

 voluntarih' approach aud touch antennce with the Stenammas. 



1 then took two Stenammas of the same size aud lineage as these 

 fostering ants, placed them in conditions in all respects similar, and 

 introduced this same Formica to their cell. The Steiuimmas at 

 once attacked the Formica, and would have slain her had I not 

 intervened. I then returned her to the fostering ants, and left her 

 with them one week longer. 



I then repeated the separation of the two Stenammas aud the 

 Formica, again keeping them apart fifty days, and likewise clean- 

 ing the two cells once a week. On February 5, 1902, I again 

 reunited the three ants, and this time found that the memory of 

 each species for the other ajjpeared to be perfect. There was no 

 manifestation of fear nor repulsion on either side. Perhaps the 

 increased age of the Formica, or her longer residence with the 

 Stenammas previous to the second test enabled her to better remem- 

 ber them. She died a natural death the 10th of February. 



In order to ascertain the existence of fighting qualities in these 

 two Stenammas, I put inio their cell aliens of their own species 

 and found that they retained the habitual aversion of their kind 

 toward strangers. 



On the 11th of June, 1902, the same two Stenammas, then 

 much engrossed in the care of pupse, fiercely attacked Wood's 

 Hole Formica fmca subsericea that I introduced into their cell. 

 This Formica was not of the same colony as the one that they had 

 fostered. 



These two Stenammas seem to have remembered for fifty days 



soap in hot water, soaking in boiling water, and rinsing in running 

 water. A full description of the cells used in these experiments may be 

 found in "A Study of an Ant," Pi'oceedings of the Academy of Natural 

 Sciences of Philadelphia, July, 1901. 




604 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Sept., 



an aut of a different subfamily from themselves. They had never 

 met any other aut of that subfamily. 



Experiment c. — On the 23d of September, 1901, I pui into an 

 artiKcial nest containing queens and workere of the C colony some 

 pupae of Formica fu-ica subserieea, and on the 2!(th of September 

 one of these pupae hatched, and continued to reside with the 

 Steuammas. On the 20th of October I removed the Formica to a 

 Petri cell, which was cleaned weekly, and I kept her there until 

 November 24, thirty-five day.s, when I introduced to her cell two 

 queens and four major workei-s from the nest in which she had 

 been hatched. The Formica exhibited great fear, as these ants 

 usually do when brought into the presence of Slenaramas ; but the 

 Stenammas appeared to be wholly friendly to the Formica. If is 

 possible that the Stenammas have a better memory than have tlic 

 Formicas, or it may be that her odor had continued to be manifest 

 in the nest of the Stenammas, modifying their action in regard to 

 their former associate. 



These Stenammas are very disen'miijatinr/ concerning the odor of 

 all ants introduced into their habitation, whether it be of their own or 

 other maternal lineage. — An e.xample of the persistent aversion of 

 these ants toward the odor of an alien communily was given by the 

 residents in two of my artificial nests. In nest j\I, ants of the C 

 colony, captured September 7, 1 900, had reared during the summer 

 of 1901 pupjB introduced from the E colony, and had also reared 

 from the pupa-stage two Formica fnsca subsericea. The fostered 

 \vorkers of the E colony remained in the nest; the two Formicas 

 were removed December 1, 1901. On the 6th of June, 1902, I 

 took all the ants, including queens and workers, in this nest and put 

 them into a similar artificial nest inhabited by queens an<l workers 

 of the C colony that had had no association with other ants since 

 their capture from the natural nest, xVugust 22, 1901. There was 

 instant battle between the residents and the introduced ants, and 

 the fighting continued during the three following weeks, until all 

 tlie ants reared from the E colony pup.T had been exterminated. 



In other nests, where no ants of alien lineage had been roared, 

 ants of the C colony immediately atfilated after two years of sepa- 

 ration. Thai the colony odor and not personal acquaintance deter- 

 mines this affiliation may be illuslrate<l by a single t'xample. 



On August 14, 1902, I lunl an arlificial nest where were many 




1002.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 605 



queens aud workers with inert young, all taken from tlie natural 

 nest of the C colony, aud established in my nest on the 7th of the 

 preceding June. Into this nest I then introduced a young worker, 

 the offspring of a C colony queen and an E colony king, whose 

 whole existence had been passed in an artificial nest that had been 

 established by me August 22, 1901. The inmates of this nest had 

 never since its establishment associated with outside ants, nor enter- 

 tained alien offspring. The young ant was amicably received in 

 the nest into which she was introduced, and was not once nabbed 

 during the succeeding half -hour, while she moved about fearlessly 

 among the hundreds of residents. Her having had an alien father 

 did not make her less acceptable to her mother's blood-relations. 



The male parent does not influence the odor of the progeny. — Ants 

 reared from pupre segregated before hatching, never having asso- 

 ciated in any wise with other ants, and having their own odor as 

 their sole criterion, manifestly find that criterion duplicated in the 

 odor of ants of about their own age, when these ants are of the 

 same lineage as themselves on the maternal side, regardless of their 

 paternity. The hereditary odor descends through the mother, aud 

 is unaffected by the father, whether he be of the same lineage as 

 the mother or of an alien colony. The mother alone determines 

 the intrinsic odor of her progeny. 



In August, 1901, I arranged eight new artificial nests, for the 

 rearing of ants having a recorded parentage. Into four of these 

 nests I put virgin queens of the C colony with kings of the C 

 colony ; and into four of the nests I put virgin queens of the C 

 colony and kings of either the E or the H colony. About fifty 

 workers of the C colony were put into each nest to act as uurses to 

 the expected young. During the ensuing year young was pro- 

 duced in all of these nests, aud with these young ants I made ex- 

 periments, as recorded below, during the year 1902. The ants 

 used in the experiments were, unless otherwise indicated, hatched 

 from pupte that had been removed from the uest several days before 

 hatching, isolated or segregated in a clean Petri cell, and never 

 brought into association with any other aut previous to the time of 

 use in the experiment. Such auts had, then, no criterion of cor- 

 rect odor, other than that of their own bodies. 



Experiment a. — May 5. Into a clean Petri cell I put a worker 

 twenty-five days old, the offspring of a C colony queen aud an E 




60(5 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Sept., 



colon)- king. With this worker I put another, fif(ecii days old, 

 whose parents were both of the C colony. The two affiliated at 

 once. 



Kvperiment b. — May 10. Into a Petri cell occupied by three 

 workers, from seven to twelve days old, the progeny of a C colony 

 queen and an H colony king, I introduced one by one three 

 workers, from two to twelve days old, the progeny of a C colony 

 queen and a C colony king. The affiliation was in each case 

 immediate. They behaved toward each other as if they had 

 always been associated. I then put the sis young ants into an 

 artificial nest inhabited by queens and workers of the C colony, 

 and tliey were adopted without examination. 



Experiment d. — June 11. Into a Petri cell occupied by five 

 workei-s, from two to five weeks old, the progeny of a C colony 

 f[ueen and a C colony king, and engaged in the care of introduced 

 larvte, 1 put a worker a few days old, the offspring of a C colony 

 queen and an E colony king. The callow was adopted into the 

 group without objection of any sort. 



Experiment e. — June 11. Into a Petri cell occupied by six 

 workers, between one and three months old, the progeny of a C 

 colony queen and a C colony king, and engrossed in the care of intro- 

 duced larvjE, I put a callow a few days old, the offspring of a 

 C colony queen and an II colony king. The callow was immedi- 

 ately accepted by the residents. 



Experiment f. — August 5. Into a Petri cell I put a callow two 

 days old, the offspring of C colony parents, and hatched in one of 

 my artificial nests that had been established just one year. Witli 

 this callow I put one of about the same age hatclied in the ances- 

 tral wild uc-t of tiic same colony. The two callows instantly affi- 

 liated, thougli thev must have had different fathers. 



The following experiments .show not only tiiat tlic mother alone 

 determines the intrinsic odor of her offspring, l)ut, that tlie heredi- 

 tary odor is modified by the age of tlie ant. As in the foregf)ing 

 experiments, the workers first i)Iacod in (lie Petri cells are those 

 sequestered while in the pupa stage, iiaving no ac<iuaiiitance with 

 any ant other than those of their own segregated group of workers. 



Krperimcnl rj. — February 2.3. Into a Petri cell occupied by two 

 workers about one month old, the progeny of a C colony (jueen 

 and a C colony king, I put two large and ilarkoilored workers 




1902.] NATUEAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 607 



taken from the ancestral nest in the preceding August. Each of 

 the two residents instantly attacked an introduced adult, and used 

 their stings with such violence that 1 removed the adults through 

 fear of endangering the lives of the junior ants. I then introduced 

 two other workers, also of the C colony, but less deeply colored 

 than those I had removed. The two parties avoided each other, 

 always associating by twos during several hours ; but within a day 

 they were huddled in one group. Three days later I put the four 

 into a C colony nest, and they were all amicably received there. 

 There was difference of odor, perceived at the first meeting, 

 although all the ants were of the same colony. 



Experiment h. — May 9. Into a clean Petri cell I put five workers, 

 from twelve to fourteen days old, the progeny of a C colony queen 

 and an E colony king. With them I put five workers, four of 

 them from twelve to twenty-five days old, one of them sixty-tive 

 days old, the progeny of a C colony queen and a C colonj' king. 

 The two groups had each been segregated from the pupa stage of 

 existence. All the nine ants that were less than twenty-six days 

 old affiliated quickly. The oldest ant was repeatedly attacked by 

 the ants that had not previously been associated with her, and was 

 dragged unresisting from the group and cast down on the opposite side 

 of the cell. After being tluis ostracized for about three days she was 

 received into full fellowship. As this ant had the same parentage 

 and had spent all her life in segregation with the four younger ants 

 that were at once accepted into fidl fellowship, her age appears to 

 be the sole cause of her having been differently treated, and indi- 

 cates a different odor due solely thereto. 



Experiment i. — June 14. Into a Petri cell occupied by three 

 workers, ten days old, the progeny of a C colony queen and an 

 E colony king, and engaged in the care of introduced larvae, 

 I put a worker, also ten days old, the offspring of a C col- 

 ony queen and a C colon_y king. There was instant affiliation. 

 I then introduced one by one ants of about the same age, but of 

 divei-se paternity, the mothers all being of the C colony, and all 

 were amicably received, and were permitted to at once join in the 

 care of the larvre. When the group numbered ten, I added from 

 a nest of the C colony a queen and an adult worker. Both were 

 at once attacked and dragged away to the side of the cell opposite 

 the larvse. The queen was soonest tolerated, and within a day or 




608 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Sept., 



two was permitted to join the group ; but the adult worker was 

 ostracized for eight or nine days. 



Experiment j. — June 16. Into a Petri cell occupied by two 

 minims ten days old, the progeny of a C colony queen and a C 

 colony king, and engaged in the care of inert young, I put two 

 major workers from an artificial nest of the C colony. The majors 

 were much older and stronger than the two resident ants, but they 

 submitted to being repeatedlj' dragged by the minims away from 

 the nursery, and they were not allowed to join in the care of the 

 young until after many days, one being ostracized until June 30, 

 the other until July 4. 



Experiment k. — July 27. Into a Petri cell containing four 

 workere, each twenty-three days old, the progeny of a C colony 

 queen and a C colony king, and engaged in the care of introduced 

 pupae, I put, one by one, five young ants, just taken from the 

 natural nest of the C colony. Every one of these introduced ants 

 was dragged to the side of the cell opposite the nursery, and were 

 there cast down. If I lifted (he cover of the cell they were 

 dragged outside it. 



I then chose callows from the natural nest, and likewise intro- 

 duced them one by one into this cell. All were received without 

 sign of dislike. In a few hours or days all the ants were groui)ed 

 together about the pupte. 



Experiment I. — On the 22d of August, IflOl, I .segregated pupae 

 that hutched between August 27 and September 1, and I segregated 

 the callows as soon as hatched, so that 1 hey never associated with 

 other ants. On the 25th of tlie following December, the ants 

 being then four months old and fuUj- colored, I [lUt into their Petri 

 cell a queen of their colony taken while still winged, and at the 

 time when these ants were taken as pupie from the ancestral nest. 

 This <iueen had since been kept in an artificial uc.--t, with no other 

 inmates than queens and workers of her own colony. The seques- 

 tered ants at once attacked and dragged the queen, but did not 

 maim nor kill her. They continued to drag her away from the 

 inert younp and to ostracize her for about ten days, and then they 

 gradually accepted her company. This indicates (hat no vast 

 amount of time, perhaps not more than some forty or fifty days, 

 are required for modilicatiou of the odor of the individual ant. 



Other experiments invariably brought similar result. Whenever 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 609 



ants are hatched from sequestered pupss, and reared without associa- 

 tion with older ants, they always drag old ants of their own line- 

 age away from the inert young, and sometimes refuse for many days 

 to tolerate them near the nursery. The workers, on the other 

 hand, never drag younger ants of their own maternal lineage away 

 from the nursery, nor do they retaliate when the callows attack 

 them. I have seen a very small pale callow tyrannize over a large 

 deeply-colored adult for consecutive weeks. 



A cause for the hostility of one colony to another of the same spe- 

 cies and variety is a difference of odor, coincident with difference oj 

 age in the individuals composiag the colony. 



A queen, after mating, may settle in new ground, deposit her 

 eggs, rear from them her progeny, and herself determine the in- 

 herent hereditary odor of the colony, which will be the same for all 

 ants of that queen's lineage hatched at about the same time. 

 Such progeny may be separated and kept segregated in sections for 

 long periods, and the individuals of any section will at once affili- 

 ate wifh those of any other section on reunion. The pupce may 

 be segregated, and the subsequent affiliation of the ants produced 

 therefrom will be equally complete, whether a queen be included 

 in each division or not. The progeny of sister queens of the same 

 age will instantly affiliate with each other or veith the aunt-queen, 

 provided that the segregation of each division has been perfectly 

 maintained, and that there is little difference in the age of the 

 auls. 



Attacks made upon ants of the same lineage, when such are intro- 

 duced into a segregated group, are more or less violent in proportion 

 to difference of age between the residents and the introduced mem- 

 bers. 



A group may rear successive broods, in successive seasons, from 

 the eggs of the same queen, and these broods will from their 

 earliest days to their latest recognize the odor of all the kindred 

 with which they were associated during the first few days of active 

 existence. Their standard of compatibility is then formed, and 

 they will defend nest and j'oung against the approach of all ants 

 whose odor disagrees with that standard. It follows that ants in a 

 nest containing queens and workers many years old would have a 

 different standard from that of any more lately established nest, 

 even though all were of the same lineage. This explains the fact 

 39 




610 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Sept., 



that colonies apparently alike, and with nest-exits but a few feet 

 apart, sometimes show bitterest hostility to one another. It also 

 explains the fact that anls taken from the extremes of an ant-domain 

 fifty yards in diameter, and kept apart for two yeai-s, amicably 

 reunite, provided that no young has hatched in either segregated 

 group. It furnish&s also explanation of the higlily variable 

 behavior of the ants of the same lineage toward one another when 

 brought together after segregation ; and it enables one knowing the 

 exact conditions to accurately prophesy what a given ant will do 

 on meeting another given ant of her own lineage. 



In the following experiments, which are but a few examples from 

 among many made by me in the summer of 1902 for the purpose 

 of ascertaining the cause of hostility between colonies of the same 

 species, all the ants were of the C colony, much used by me 

 because of easy access to its populous natural nest. 



For the ants a year or more old, I used queens and workers of 

 this colony that were captured by me on August 22, 1901, and 

 that have since been kept by me in small artificial nests, where no 

 pupa has been allowed to hatch, and to which no ant has ever been 

 introduced from outside. 



'\\nien the ants did not differ in size or color sufficiently for me 

 to thereby distinguish them, I marked those that 1 desired to 

 observe.' 



The ants depended upon to show the feeling of their kind toward 

 such as were introduced, Avere all engaged in the care of inert 

 young in Petri cells, where they liad been for some days or weeks 

 established as a family group. When I was about to use any such 

 cell in experiment, 1 sometime-s introduced an ant of an alien 

 colony in order to ascertain the presence of fighters among the 

 residents of the cell. Such aliens were always removed before the 

 experiment. 



Tlie ants could not carry intruders outside the cell, unless I lifted 

 its cover. 1 therefore considered, in these experiments, the seizing 

 and dragging of any ant away from the larva: pile and across the 



'I mark the ants upon the top of the abdomen using dried varnish, 

 into whicli walei-color paint has been nibbed before drying. The var- 

 nish is softened for immediate use by a droj) of chloroform. The ant is 

 jiently field by the head until the chloroform lias evaporated from the 

 dab lipon lier abdomen. This marlc often remains upon an ant several 

 weeks, and does not appear to influence her action nor that of her 

 associates in the exjierinieni. 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 611 



cell as equivalent to the casting out of that ant from the nest. I 

 sometimes lifted tlie cover and allowed the resident ant to carry an 

 intruder outside it. The Petri cells permitted more close and con- 

 stant observation of the ants concerned than would have been pos- 

 sible in any other residence. 



Experiment m. — On August 25, into a cell containing forty 

 workers, hatched between July 4 and July 16 from pupae previ- 

 ously segregated, 1 put one by one three workers, each twenty days 

 old, also hatched from sequestered pupae, and also segregated to 

 the time of the experiment. The introduced ants were all accepted 

 without examination or attention. 



I then put in a queen, captured June 7, and since deiilated. 

 She undertook at once to sort the resident workers, and to carry 

 some of thera out of the cell. She was attacked by a resident and 

 I removed her. 



I then put in an ant over one year old. She was seized and 

 dragged across the cell, and this was repeated three times on her 

 approach to the young, after which I removed her. 



I then put in another ant over a year old. Five residents 

 attacked her at once and so violently that I rescued and removed 

 her. 



I then put in a queen one year old. She was seized and dragged 

 across the cell and I removed her. 



I then put in another queen of the same age and she was treated 

 likewise. 



Experiment n. — On August 25, into a cell containing fourteen 

 workers, all hatched on August 5 from segregated pupae, I put a 

 marked ant less than Ihirly days older than the residents. She 

 was accepted without examination. I then put in a queen hatched 

 on the same day as were these residents, and since mated and 

 deiilated. She was instaully a(fcepted into the ant-group. 



I removed her, and put in a queen one year old. She was three 

 times dragged by two residents away from the youug and across the 

 cell, and I took her out. This queen had mated with a king of 

 an alien colony, and had since reared progeny. 



I then put in another queen, a year old, who had mated with a 

 king of her own colony, and had since reared progeny. She was 

 likewise attacked aud dragged. 



I put in adults of various ages, all more than a month older 




612 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Sept., 



than these ants, and all were attacked. In these attacks on older 

 outsidtirs the marked ant was active. She had never before met 

 old ants. 



Experiment o. — On August 25, into a cell where there was a 

 queen who was hatched on August 5 among segregated pupa, and 

 who was isolated soon after hatching, I put seven workers all 

 under three days old. The eight ants at once snuggled together. 



Experiment p. — On August 26, into a cell containing fifteen 

 workei-s, all hatched from segregated pupae on August 5, I put a 

 deiilated queen, also hatched on August 5. The workers at once 

 accepted the queen. As these ants had never before seen a queen, 

 they must have been guided in their acceptance of her by smell 

 rather than by feeling. Feeling would have surely revealed a 

 difference between tlie conformation of the newcomer and that of 

 their habitual associates. 



After half an hour I removed this young queen, and put in a 

 queen one year old. She was instantly seized and dragged across 

 the cell. 



I took her out and ])ut in a worker more than one year old. She 

 was violently attacked and I removed her. 



I then jiut ill an ant only a few days older than the residents. 

 She was at once allowed to join in the care of the larvoe. 



I then put in another deiilated queen, also hatched on August 5, 

 but since associated with older ants. She was nabbed and pulled, 

 but was afterward licked, and in fifteen minutes was snuggled. 



I took her out an<l put in another queen one year old. She was 

 attacked and dragged across ttie cell three times before I took her 

 out. 



I then put in a worker about forty daj'S older than the residents, 

 but who had always been segregated with ants of her own age. 

 She was attacked and dragged. 



Experiment q. — On August 26, into cell A, containing many 

 workers that had hatched August 7 from jiupte segregated August 

 3, and that had never since August 8 been protccteil from daylight, 

 I put several workers that were also hatched on August 7 from 

 pupiB segregated August 3 in cell B, and that had always been kept 

 in darkness. Tiicy affiliated instantly, and without mutual attention. 

 I likewise put into cell B .several workers from cell A, with the 

 same result. 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 613 



At a later date, ants that had passed their whole pupa-stage in 

 the light affiliated with those of the same age that liad passed their 

 whole pupa-stage iu darkness, and vice versa. 



Experiment r. — On August 27 I put into a clean cell three 

 queens, one captured, deiilaled, September 7, 1900; one captured 

 winged, August 22, 1901, and one captured, winged, June 7, 1902. 

 All were dealated at date. These queens had all at some time 

 associafed with queens older and younger than themselves, and 

 they at once associated amicably with each other. 



1 then removed from the cell the youngest of the three queens, 

 and introduced one of exactly the same age as was she, but who 

 had, during her (wenty-two days of life, had no association with 

 any ant older than herself. This young dealated queen constantly 

 fled from the two older queens, and refused during two days to be 

 driven or cajoled into touch with Ihem. Meantime Ihey snuggled 

 each other voluntarily, though they had never before met. 



Experiment s. — On August 28, into a cell containing a score of 

 workers, hatched Augast 5 from pupae sequestered August 3, I 

 put, one by one, three workere of the same size and color as these 

 resident ants, but twenty -one months older, having been hatched 

 between the 13th and the 21st of November, 1900. Each of the 

 visitors was seized and dragged. 



I took them out, and put into the cell, one by one, three 

 workers, thirty-seven days old, and of the same size and color as 

 the resident ants. Each of these visitors was received without 

 seizure or nabbing. 



I then took them out and put in a queen hatched August 5. 

 She was at once accepted. I removed her and put in a dealated 

 queen hatched in June. This queen was nabbed, but she imme- 

 diately set herself to the regulation of her new family, and she 

 successively picked up and carried across the cell seven young ants. 

 As fast as she brought the ants from the ant-group at the larvse- 

 pile I removed them from tlie cell, and in half an hour she had 

 settled in the midst of a serene family, where she appeared to be 

 wholly acceptable. 



I then took her out, and without returning the rejected workers, 

 I put in a queen a year old. This queen was attacked \vith great 

 violence by several residents together, and I removed her from the 

 cell. 




614 PEOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Sept., 



I then put in a queen that had lived in one of my artificial nests 

 since September 7, 1900. She was likewise violently attacked, and 

 I removed her. 



Large and small worker.?, a year or more old, also met with hos- 

 tile treatment. 



The results from these and all other experiments recently made 

 by me coincide with my observations during three years' study of 

 this species, and confirm m_y \'iew that the cause of that diversity of 

 odor which characterizes diverse commimities lies in the difference 

 in the relative ages of the commimities. The queen transmits her 

 individual odor to her progeny, and it is probable, though not 

 proven, that in successive seasons the odor of the progeny varies 

 with the age of the producing queen, the odor being a product of 

 metabolism. 



Effects of light and color upon the ant. — The haste with which 

 the wild ants catch up their inert young and scurry into darkness 

 whenever their nests are uncovered indicates great sensitivity to light. 

 In the summers of 1901 and 1902 I reared ants from the larva;, 

 letting them pass the whole pupa-stage iu full daylight, both with 

 and without ant-nurses, and I found that the ants thus i-eared had 

 the same color and the same activities as had their congenei-s simul- 

 taneoiL^ly reared in darkness. 



Sir John Lubbock^ ha-s shown that the rays from which his ants 

 withdrew were the ultra-violet, and Forel" has proven that his ants 

 perceived these rays through the eyes. Accepting the results 

 attained by these eminent myrmecologists, I undertook to give my 

 ants opportunity for healthful living and for their ordinary domes- 

 tic occupations iu my glass ne.st.<, and at the same time to impel 

 them to deliberate choice among the seven primary colors or some 

 combination of the.<e colors. I therefore established newly caj)- 

 tured queens, workei*s and inert young iu three .sorts of dwellings, 

 where my earlier experiments had shown that they could live com- 

 fortably for long periods. I used the maze which is minutely 

 described in my paper, " Further Study of an Ant," and which is 

 here represented iu the drawing marked JI ; a jwrUible four-roomed 

 nest, made for these experiments, and represented in the drawing 



"Ants, Bees and Wasps, pp. 211 to 217, Applelon & Co., New York, 

 1903. 



' Experiences et remarques critiques sur tcs sensations des Inseetes. 

 Dfeuxieme partie, pp. 10-24. Conio, 1900. 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 615 



marked N, and a score or two of Petri cells about teu centimeters 

 broad andone centimeter deep. All these habitations contained 

 flakes of sponge saturated with clean water, and were suitably 

 supplied with morsels of food for the ants. In none of their resi- 

 dences did I ever disturb the ants oftener than twice in a single 

 day by any alteration of their eDvironment. 



I put papers of vivid colors under the transparent glass flooi-s of 

 these habitations, offering always a choice between colors. In the 

 maze four colors were presented ; in the uest, three ; in the Petri 

 cells, two. During two mouths of experimentatiou in this line 

 the auts never moved their young, nor themselves congregated 

 upon one color in preference to another, nor did they in conse- 

 quence of a change in the color of their floor, or of an interchange 

 between black and white, ever remove from any spot upou which 

 they had congregated. They gave no sign of regarding any 

 quality in their floor other than its opacity, and the most vivid 

 reds, greens and blues displayed there in full daylight failed either 

 to entice or to agitate them. 



Their behavior was very different when colored glass was used 

 for transmitting the light that entered their abodes. In all cases 

 diffused, not direct, sunlight was used in these experiments. The 

 walls as well as the roof of the dwelling were transparent, and the 

 superimposed colored panes extended two inches beyond the walls, 

 so that the chosen light entered from every quarter except through 

 the floor, which was always opaque white. This made the condi- 

 tions nearly equal throughout the abode. The dwellings were 

 placed upon a large table where the summer temperature was the 

 same on all sides, and the diffused light from a large north window 

 gave fairly equal illumination over the whole." 



The ants were not affected by the Intensity of the illumination from 

 rays of longer wave-lemjth than violet. — I repeatedly interchanged 

 the panes over a Petri cell, one-half of which was covered by a 

 pane that shut out all rays except a few red ones, and the other 

 half by a pane transmitting much red light. During a residence 

 of several weeks in this cell the ants showed no preference for the 

 less intense light. 



I also covered one-half of a cell with a colorless pane, and the 



'* These experiments were made at the Marine Biological Laboratory 

 at Wood's Hole, Mass., in June, July, August and September, 1903. 




616 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Sept., 



other haK of tbe cell with a dark-violet pane transmitting, a-s 

 shown by the spectroscope, all the coloi-s of the spectrum. I could 

 scarcely discern the ants through the violet pane. But during a 

 residence of several weeks in this cell the anls, after two removals 

 from the colorless to the violet side, remained for many consecutive 

 days under the transj)areut glass, and I repeatedly interchanged the 

 two panes without causing the ants to remove from imder the one 

 or the other. 



The same indifference to the intensity of illumination was show'n 

 by ants placed in cells covered one-half with a double layer, the 

 other half with a single layer of green glass ; one-half with a 

 double layer, the other half with a single layer of yellow glass : or 

 one-half with a double layer, the other half with a single layer of 

 blue gliiss. The relative proportions of the primary colors, from 

 red to indigo, transmitted by the various colored panes varied 

 greatly, as the spectroscope showed. But the ants apparently 

 disregarded these proportions, and were hasty or deliberate in their 

 action in direct ratio to the number of rays from the violet end of 

 the spectrum. 



It is probable that ultra-violet rays were transmitted with the 

 violet ones in all of my exjieriments. 



It must be constantly borne in mind that the ants are inslinc- 

 tively photophob. They always take shelter under an opaque 

 covering when a choice is offered between darkness and any rays of 

 light, even pure red. 



M. 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 617 



Experhnent 1. — June 8. I put into the maze four queens, fifty 

 adult workers and a half-teaspoouful of larvse, and covered the 

 maze with colored panes, each covering one-quarter of the maze, 

 from side to centre. Under the spectroscope the panes showed the 

 light transmitted to be as follows : 



The red pane transmitted only red rays. 



The orange pane transmitted red, orange, yellow, green, blue. 



The green pane transmitted orange, yellow, green, blue, indigo. 



The indigo pane transmitted yellow, green, blue, indigo, violet. 



The ants spent thirty-eight days in the maze, and during that 

 time made fifty settlements therein. Their first settlemant, made 

 by gathering the scattered larvse and forming a single group 

 including all the queens and workers, was under the 'red pane. I 

 then placed the indigo pane over the group, interchanging it with 

 the red, and the ants at once removed from under the indigo pane, 

 and again grouped themselves under the red. Whenever I put the 

 indigo pane over them they sooner or later removed from its light 

 and settled under another pane, the "total result being that they 

 settled twenty-nine times under the reil pane, ten times under the 

 orange pane and eleven times under the green pane. Not once 

 did they move from under the red, orange or green pane to the 

 indigo. In removing, they as often settled on the side opposite as 

 upon a side adjoining their last place of sojourn. All other condi- 

 tions remained unchanged, making it certain that their removal 

 was due solely to the interchange of the panes. 



Their earliest removals from imder the indigo pane were made 

 in manifest haste, and were all made within a few minutes after I 

 had interchanged the panes. But their haste gradually diminished, 

 and on July 2, after the thirty-sixth removal, they remained 

 several hours under the indigo jjane before removmg to orange. I 

 changed the panes again at 6 o'clock P.M., putting them under 

 indigo, and they passed the whole of July 3 under that pane, 

 before removing to red on July 4. Their aversion to the violet 

 rays, the only rays transmitted by the indigo pane that were not 

 also transmitted by another pane, appeared to have then subsided, 

 for they spent six whole days, from July 11 to July 16, inclusive, 

 under the indigo pane. They appeared to have learned that it 

 furnished a safe shelter for them. 




fil8 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Sept., 



N. 



Experiment 2. — Using the artificial nest represented in the draw- 

 ing, N, I put in, on June 9, five queens, thirty workers, and a 

 teaspoonful of larvse, all taken from a wild nest on the preceding 

 day. The food-room was roofed with colorless glass, was used by 

 the ants .solely as a feeding place, and docs not otherwise enter into 

 the experiment. Over each of the three other rooms I placed a 

 pane of colored glass- 

 Red, transmitting red rays only. 



Yellow, transmitting red, orange, yellow, green, blue, indigo. 



Blue, transmitting orange, yellow, green, blue, indigo, violet. 



In 14 trials, occupying 14 days, the ants always removed from 

 under the blue pane, whenever it was placed over them, and took 

 shelter in another room. They removed 8 times to red, and 6 

 times to yellow. 



In this experiment they always departed from the room to which 

 violet rays were admitted, and settled in one of the two other 

 rooms. 



In order to secure an expression from the ants concerning partic- 

 ular colors I used Petri cells, offering a ch ice between only two 

 panes. 1 made each test with newly captured ants, including one 

 or more queens, ten or more workers, and some inert young. 



Experiment 3. — Time, 40 days. 



Red pane, transmitting red rays only. 



Treble orange pane, transmitting red, green. 



The ants showed no preference for either side of the cell. The 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 619 



panes were many times interchanged, but the interchange never 

 caused their removal to the other side of the cell. The red and 

 green rays were evidently as acceptable to them as were the red 

 rays alone. 



Experiment 4^. — Time, 53 days. 



Yellow pane, transmitting red, orange, yellow, green, blue, 

 indigo. 



Green pane, transmitting orange, yellow, green, blue, indigo. 



The ants stayed indifferently through consecutive days under 

 either pane, never removing from one side of the cell to the other 

 on account of an interchange of the panes. They have therefore 

 no preference for the red rays transmitted by the yellow pane. 



Experiment 5. — Time, 50 days. 



Red pane, transmitting red only. 



Yellow pane, transmitting red, orange, yellow, green, blue, indigo. 



The ants removed five times from under the yellow pane to the 

 red ; but were dilatory in their removals. They once waited three 

 days, once four days, and once seven days, before removing. 



Experiment 6. — Time, 20 days. 



Yellow pane, transmitting red, orange, yellow, green, blue, indigo. 



Blue pane, transmitting orange, yellow, green, blue, indigo, 

 violet. 



The ants always removed from under the blue pane within a few 

 minutes after it was put over them. I interchanged the panes once 

 or twice a day. In the first ten days they removed 20 times to the 

 yellow side. The cause of the movement must have been either 

 preference for the red or avoidance of the violet, and that the latter 

 was the cause is indicated by Experiment 4. . 



Experiment 7. — Tin)e, 21 days. 



Indigo pane, transmitting yellow, green, blue, iudigo, violet. 



Violet pane, transmitting red, orange, yellow, green, blue, indigo, 

 violet. 



The ants removed five times from under the violet pane to the 

 indigo side of the cell, but their movements were dilatory, and they 

 staj'ed, toward the end of their sojourn, six consecutive days under 

 the indigo pane, and (hen six consecutive days under the violet 

 pane. This indicates lack of preference for the red and orange 

 rays transmitted by the violet pane. The violet pane transmitted 

 more of the violet rays than did the indigo pane. 




620 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Sept., 



Experiment S. — Time, 21 days. 



Blue pane, transmitting orange, yellow, green, blue, indigo, 

 violet. 



Colorless pane, transmitting red, orange, yellow, green, blue, 

 indigo, violet. 



The ants showed indifference concerning the two sides of the cell. 

 They at fir.^l remained four days under the colorless pane, and wlien 

 I then interchanged the panes, they remained ten consecutive days 

 imder the blue. I then reversed the panes again, and they 

 remained imder the colorless pane to the end of the test, seven 

 days. 



This indicates that the red rays transmitted by the colorless pane 

 presented no definite attraction to them. 



Experiment 9. — Time, 31 days. 



Yellow pane doubled, transmitting red, orange, yellow, green, 

 blue, indigo. 



Green pane doubled, transmitting yellow, green, blue, indigo. 



A daily interchange of the panes caused no removal of (he ants. 

 The red and orange transmitted on the yellow side did not attract 

 them. 



Experiment 10. — Time, 50 days. 



Blue pane, transmitting orange, yellow, green, blue, indigo, 

 violet. 



Double indigo pane, transmitting yellow, green, blue, indigo, 

 violet. 



The ants stivyed consecutive days on each side, and never 

 removed on account of an interchange of the panes. They have 

 not, therefore, a preference for the orange rays transmitted by the 

 blue ^ane. 



Experiment 11. — Time, 20 days. 



Treble orange, transmitting red and green. 



Double green, transmitting yellow, green, blue, indigo. 



After tiirce dilatory removals to the orange side, the ants became 

 indifferent to their location in the cell. 



Experiment IS. — Time, 80 days. 



Treble orange, transmitting red, green. 



Single orange, transmitting red, orange, yellow, green, blue. 



The ants stayed indifferently under either pane, and never moved 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 621 



on account of interchanges of the panes. This indicates no prefer- 

 ence for orange, yellow and blue ray.s. 



Experiment 13.— Time, 45 days. 



Double orange, transmitting red, orange, yellow, green. 



Double green, transmitting yellow, green, blue, indigo. 



The ants moved once to orange on account of interchange in the 

 panes. The green side presented so little of blue and indigo under 

 the spectroscope as to make the presence of those rays doubtful. 

 The ants did not seek the red rays. 



Experiment 14-. — Time, 43 days. 



Double orange, transmitting red, orange, yellow, green. 



Single green, transmitting orange, yellow, green, blue, iudigo. 



The ants removed twice from green to double orange. This 

 may indicate preference for red, or avoidance of the blue and 

 indigo. The removals were dilatory, and the ants quickly became 

 indifferent to the rays. 



Experiment 15. — Time, 35 days. 



Double orange, transmitting red, orange, yellow, green. 



Yellow pane, transmitting red, orange, yellow, green, blue, 

 indigo. 



The action of the ants was the same as in the last experiment, 

 and showed that the cause of the removals was not a preference for 

 red, but an avoidance of the blue and indigo. 



Experiment 16. — Time, 50 days. 



Single. orange, transmitting red, orange, yellow, green, blue. 



Double green, transmitting yellow, green, blue, indigo. 



The ants remained for consecutive days under each pane, and 

 never removed on account of interchange of the panes. They 

 have not, then, a preference for the red and orange transmitted by 

 the orange pane. 



Experiment 18. — Time, 43 days. 



Single orange pane, transmitting red, orange, yellow, green, blue. 



Single green pane, transmitting orange, yellow, green, blue, 

 indigo. 



The ants stayed consecutive days under each pane. I sometimes 

 interchanged the panes twice a day, but such interchange never 

 caused a change of location of the ant-group. The ants have not, 

 then, a preference for red or for indigo. 




622 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Sept., 



Experhnent 19. — Time, 22 days. 



Single orancre pane, transmitting red, orange, yellow, green, blue. 



Single yellow pane, tran.sniitting red, orange, yellow, green, 

 blue, indigo. 



The ants moved once to the orange side, and afterward stayed 

 conseculive days under each pane. Interchanges of the panes 

 never caused a removal of the ant-group. The ants have, then, 

 but slight dislike for the indigo rays, the only rays in which the 

 sides of the cell differed. 



Experiment 20. — Time, 65 days. 



Orange pane, transmitting red, orange, yellow, green, blue. 



Violet pane, transmitting red, orange, yellow, green, blue, indigo, 

 violet. 



The ants removed hastily from imder the violet as often as inter- 

 change of the panes was made, one or twice a day, for about 

 twenty days. Thereafter they became indifferent to the violet 

 rays. Their action indicates instinctive fear of the short wave- 

 length rays, a fear that subsides with experience. 



Experiment 21. — Time, 50 days. 



Green pane, transmitting orange, yellow, green, blue, indigo. 



Blue pane, transmitting orange, yellow, green, blue, indigo, 

 violet. 



The ants withdrew in haste from under the blue pane. 1 

 interchanged the glasses once or twice a day, and their removal 

 from under the blue pane was speedily njade, until about twenty 

 days had elapsed, when they became dilatory in their removals 

 and remained sometimes .several days under the blue pane. 



Experiment 22. — Time, 40 days. 



Green pane, transmitting orange, yellow, green, blue, indigo. 



Violet pane, transmitting red, orange, yellow, green, blue, indigo, 

 violet. 



The ants removed from under the violet pane and settled under 

 the green pane as often as I interchanged the panes, once or twice 

 a day, up to the tweiity-Kfth day, when they became dilatory and 

 manifested increasing indifference to their roofing. The red rays 

 did not neutralize the effect of the violet ones. 



An analysis of the results of the.se experiments shows that the 

 ants manifested no lii<ing for any of the rays of light. If oblige<l 

 to stay in light rays of some sort, the rays of longer wave-length 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 623 



are preferred to those of shorter wave-length. Dividing the 

 spectrum, as we know it, into red, green and violet, we might say 

 that to the ants' eyes red and green are most like the darkness 

 that they prefer, and that violet is to them most luminous; or that 

 the red and green are less visible to them than is the violet. In this 

 regard the eyes of the ant appear to be the reverse of our own. 



Our eyes perceive in the spectrum three fundamental colors — red, 

 green and violet. The eyes of the ant may perceive there only 

 two fundamental colors — one made up of the red and green rays, 

 the other of the violet and ultra-violet rays. 



After the experiments above recorded were completed, I put five 

 queens and about three hundred workers, from a colony freshly 

 brought from its natural nest, into each of five similar artificial 

 nests, having opaque floors and walls and colorless glass roofs. 

 The first nest I covered with cardboard, making its interior dark. 

 The second I covered with panes transmitting only red and green 

 rays, and in this the ants disposed themselves through the compart- 

 ments in about the same way as did those in the fii-sl, the dark, 

 nest. Over the third I put panes transmitting yellow, green, blue 

 and indigo rays, and in this the ants disposed themselves with 

 considerable regard to the shade afforded by the sides and partitions 

 of the nest. Over the fourth I put panes transmitting only the 

 rays at the vfolet end of the spectrum, and in this nest the ants 

 disposed themselves with the same manifest effort to avoid the light 

 as they did in the fifth nest, which was covered with colorless glass. 

 Interchanging the panes caused the ants to rearrange themselves 

 in accordance with the above scheme of relationship to the light. 



Bearing in mind the fact that the ants showed no preference for 

 red alone over the red and green (Experiment 3), it appears that 

 the eye of the ant is not well adapted to the reception of light-rays 

 whose wave-length is longer than in the violet rays ; that it receives 

 blue and indigo more perfectly than red, orange, yellow and 

 green ; and that there is a sudden increase of luminosity in the 

 light-rays at that point in the spectrum where violet begins for our 

 eyes. 



The ants may discern colors, and yet have no preferences among 

 the colors discerned. Color is determined by the wave-length in 

 the light-ray, and since the ants discriminate between rays of 

 different wave-lengths, they probably perceive color in the rays. 




624 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Sept., 



Sensitivity to the length of the wave indicates perception of color. 

 They certainly discern white. Last year, when some of my Sten- 

 ammas were intent upon the carrying of white pupse through the 

 maze into their nest, I dropped among the pupae a few bits of white 

 cord, cut to the size of the pupte, and several ants picked up and 

 carried bits of the cord a part of the way to the nest. They must 

 have been deceived by the color, and must have lifted the bits of 

 cord without smelling them, and on account of their color alone. 



All my experiments emphasized the fact that the ants gradually 

 lost their fear of the light, or of any modifications of it to which 

 they were long exposed. 



Ants hatched in the light, or hatched under violet or blue glass, 

 and ants hatched in darkness and but a day or two old, all behaved 

 under the colored panes exactly as did adult ants taken from the 

 natural nests, showing that the withdrawal from light is instinc- 

 tive, and that the instinct manifests itself from the beginning of 

 the active life of the ant. I sequestered jiupre, and then segregated 

 the ants hatched therefrom, and found that these ants, that had 

 never associated with any other ants than those who had, like 

 themselves, always lived in a Petri cell, behaved the same in 

 regard to light-rays as did ants from the wild nests. The ant 

 behavior in regard to light-rays is not the result of instruction 

 from nor imitation of experienced ciders. ' 



I also repeated many of the experiments with ants five, ten and 

 twenty days old, as well as with ants a few months old, reared in 

 artificial nests, and found that thi? instinct prevailed at all ages, 

 and over any sort of rearing. There was, however, a difference in 

 the times within which ants of different ages become accustomed 

 to the light-rays. The younger the ants the more quickly they 

 ceased to move to the opposite side of the cell when I interchanged 

 the panes. 



The action of the ants when without inert young was e,s.sentially 

 the same as when they had the care of eggs, larva; and pupse. 

 The advantage gained in the experiments by the presence of the 

 young was that the ants then reacted more six-cdily and definitely 

 to the light-rays. The ants always grouped themselves upon or 

 near the young, and there was so little of straggling that it seemed 

 u-seless to count the few stragglere when reckoning results. The 

 behavior of the ants toward the light-rays was the same whether 

 queens were or were not present. 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 625 



The withdrawal of the auts from the violet rays may have 

 psychological relation to rain, or to some form of water. Four 

 times when I put ants into cells of which one-half was covered with 

 blue glass, the ants caught up their inert young and piled it all 

 ou top of the food enclosed in the cell, as if to raise the young out 

 of the wet. This action on their part was so extraordinary as 

 to cause me to make record of it. The anls living in my other 

 Petri cells during the past two years have always assembled the 

 young on the side of the cell opposite the food, and have in uo 

 case laid live larvie or pupa; on the food-pile. 



The plasticity of the ants is remarkably shown in their gradu- 

 ally learning to stay where they were never disturbed by me, under 

 rays from which their instincts at first withdrew them. 



40 




626 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



October 7. 

 IVIr. Arthur Erwin Brown, Vice- President, in the Chair. 



Eight persons present. 



A paper entitled "Three Xew American Bats," hv James A. 

 G. Relni, was presented for publication. 



The deaths of Major J. W. Powell, a correspondent, and of 

 Charles H. Hutchinson, a member, were announced. 



October 14. 

 The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M. D. , in the Chair. 



Twelve jiereons present. 



A paper entitled " Additional Observations on the Strand Fioi'a 

 of New ,lei-sey," l\v John \V. Ilarshberger, Pb.D., was presented 

 for publication. 



October 21. 

 Mr. Charles Morrls in the Chair. 



Eleven pei-sous present. 



A paper entitled "A Collection of Bird.s from Sumatra, obtained 

 by Alfred ('. Harrison, Jr.. and Dr. II. M Ilillcr," by Witmcr 

 Stone, was presented for publication. 




1902.] natural sciences of philadelphia. 627 



October 28. 

 Mr. Arthitr Erwin Brown, Vice-President, iu the Chair. 



Twenly-three persons present. 



Papers under the following titles were presented for publication : 



" A List of the Reptiles and Batrachians iu the Harrison -Hiller 

 Collection from Sumatra," by Arthur Erwin Brown. 



" Studies on the Habits of Spiders, particularly those of the 

 Mating Period," by Thomas H. Montgomery, Ph.D. 



" Birds of the Seskiyou Mountains, California: A Problem in 

 Distribution," by M.alcolm P. Anderson and Joseph Grinnell. 



In compliance with the recommendation of the Committee on 

 the Hayden j\Iemorial Geological Award, the medal was conferred 

 on Sir A.rchibald Geikie, D.Sc, LL.D., late Director -General 

 of the Geological Survey of Great Britain and Ireland. 



Archibald Geikie was born iu Edinburgh, the 28th of Decem- 

 ber, 183.5, the youngest son of James Stuart Geikie. He was 

 educated in the schools of his native city and, after graduation 

 from the University of Edinburgh, he entered the Geological Sur- 

 vey of Scotland at the age of Iwent}' years. Three yeare later, in 

 1858, he published his first book, entitled The Story of a Boulder ; 

 or Gleanings from the Note-Book of a Field Geologist. The 

 work of the Geological Survey was largely confined to mapping, 

 the first general geological map of Scotland being published in 1862. 



While this map was issued under the direction of Sir Roderick 

 I. Murchisou, a large part of the work was contributed by Geikie. 

 In 1867, at the age of thirty-two, Geikie was appointed Director 

 of the Geological Survey of Scotland. All succeeding maps of 

 the survey of Scotland were issued under his supervision, many of 

 them being prepared by hmiself. Somewhat before this period he 

 had begun to publish papers on physiographic geology, his work on 

 The Scenery of Scotland, Viewed in Connection tvith Its Physical 

 Geology, appearing in 1865. Subsequent papers deal with the 

 effects of glaciation, modern denudation and other physiographic 

 processes. In 1871 he was elected Murchison Professor of Geology 

 and Mineralogy in the University of Edinburgh. The methods of 

 geological surveying were carefully cidtivated by Geikie, the results 

 of his experience being given to the w-orld in his Outlines of Field 

 Geology (1876), which has gone through five editions, the last 

 appearing in 1900. 



In the year 1882, after serving on the (xeological Survey of 




-^28 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



Scotland for twenty-seven years, during fifteen of which he was 

 Director, he was appointed Director-General of the Geological 

 Survey of Great Britain and Ireland and Director of the Museum 

 of Practical Geology, Jermyn street, London, which positions he 

 held until his resignation from the Survey in 1 901 . He was 

 knighted in 1891. 



In 1879 he was selected to write the article on Geology for the 

 Enbycloprndia Britannica, 9th ed. His Text-Book of Geology, 

 generally recognized to be the best presentation of the subject in 

 any language, was issued in 18<S2, the second edition in 188.") and a 

 third edition in 1893. His most important piece of research 

 work, The Ancient Volcanoes of Great Briiain, was published in 

 1897. 



The following were ordered to be [)rinted : 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 629 



CONTRIBUTIONS TOWARD A KNOWLEDGE OF THE ORTHOPTERA 

 OF JAPAN AND KOREA, I.-ACRIDID^ 



BY JAMES A. G. REHX. 



The specimeus which form the basis of lhi# contribution are con- 

 tained ^in the collection of the Academy, and are principally from 

 three sources : 



1. A series presented by Dr. H. C. Wood, simply labeled 

 Japan, but in all probabilit}' from Yeso, as all the forn<s show 

 Siberian affinities. 



2. An excellent series from Kioto, purchased by the Academy 

 ■from Mr. Y. Hirase. 



3. A small series from Yokohama, contained in the Rehn Col- 

 lection. 



Family ACRIDID.^E. 



Subfamily Acrydiinse [Tettigince Auct.) 

 Aorydium japonicum (Bolivar). 



1889. Tlettix'] japonicus Bolivar, Ann. See. Ent. de Belgique, 

 XXXI, p. 263. 



Four specimens, 3 males, 1 nymph. 



Japan. Dr. H. C. Wood. 



Sublaniily Aoridinse {Truxalince Auct.). 

 Acrida nasuta (LiniiEeus). 



1758. [Gryllus] {Acrida) nasutus Linnaeus, Syst. Nat., X ed., p. 437. 



Fifty-six specimens, 25 males, 28 females, 3 nymphs. 



Chemulpo, Korea. Dr. W. H. Jones (7). 



Japan. Dr. H. C. Wood (7). 



Yokohama, Japan. Rev. H. Loomis (7). Rehn Collection. 



Kioto, Japan. Y. Hirase (35), Nos. 14 and 15. 



Both extreme color phases of this species are represented iu the 

 series, with many intermediates exhibiting a complete transition 

 from the uniform green to the ochraceous and umber fonn. 

 Paraplenrus fastigfiatus n. sp. 



Types, d' and ?, Japan. Dr. H. C. Wood. 



Allied to P. alliaee^cs (Germar), but differing in the greater ex- 




630 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



tension of the preocular portion of the liead (tlius producing an 

 extended frontal costa and triangularly acuminate fastigium), and 

 in the lesser development of the mcdiastiiie and scapular area of 

 tlie tegmina. No relationship exists with P. fasciatus Brunner,' 

 which approaches Duronia in possessing partial lateral carinie. 



c?. — Head with the vertex tumid, a slight longitudinal sulcus 

 being presenl ; fastigium considerably produced, excavated, apex 

 narrowly truncate, the lateral carina; well marked, only a trace 

 bping visible of the median carina; frontal costa constricted below 

 the ocellus, strongly expanded ventrad, sulcate throughout the 

 entire length, punctate in the dorsal portion; eyes rather promi- 

 nent, ovate; antennae slightly depressed, twice as long as the head 

 and pronotum. Pronotum subcylindrical, cephalic border sub- 

 truncate, caudal rotundate, median carina distinct, cut a'out the 

 middle by the transverse sulcus; lateral lobes equally long as 

 broad, the ventral margin deeply sinuate cephalad. Tegniina 

 rather elongate, exlen<ling a considerable distance beyond both the 

 abdomhial apex and the hind femora; mediasliue and scapular 

 areas elongate, not dilated. Mesosterual lobes separated by an 

 interspace much longer than broad; metasternal lobes almost con- 

 fluent. Subgenital plate acuminate, possessing a distinct keel on 

 the dorsal surface. Posterior femora slender, genicular lobes 

 rotund-angulate; tibire not equaling the femora, bearing twelve 

 spines on the external margin, ten to eleven .>i[)ines on the internal 

 margins. 



?. — Head with the fastigium rather broad, obtuse-angulate, the 

 apex narrowly truncate, excavated but with no trace of a median 

 carina; frontal costa c<jnstricled below the ocellus, moderately 

 expanded ventrad, shallowly sulcate throughout the entire length, 

 punctate dorsad; eyes of medium size, ovate; antennoe .<lightly 

 longer than head and pronotum. Tegmina .slightly exceeding the 

 aj)ex of the abdomen. Jlesostemal lobes separated by an inter- 

 space subquadrato in outline; meta.sterual lobes considerably sep- 

 arated by a rectangular interspace. Posterior tibite with ten to 

 eleveu spines on the external and eleven spines on the internal 

 margins. 



Genenvl color (specimens taken from spirits and dried) dull 

 yellowish -brown; po.stocular streak blackish, this str^k extending 



'Ret. Sy»t. Orthopl., p. 127. 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 631 



to the middle of the tegmina, in scapular area of the latter 

 whitish; genicular arches and the tips of the spines on the poste- 

 rior femora black 



Measurements. _ p 



Length of head and body 20 mm. 29 mm. 



Length of pronotum, 4 " 5 " 



Length of legmina, 18 " 22 " 



Length of hind femora, 13.5" 16 " 



Total number of specimens examined 4, 2 males and 2 females. 



Chrysoohraon japonicus Bolivar. 



1898. Ghrysochraon japonicus Bolivar, Aun. Mus. Civ. Stor. Nat. 

 Geneva, XXXIX, p. 83. 



Two specimens, c? and ? . 



Japan. Dr. H. C. Wood. 



Chorthippus^ latipennis (Bolivar). 



1898. Stenohothrus latipennis Bolivar, Ann. Mus. Civ. Stor. Nat- 

 Genova, XXXIX, p. 83. 



Eighteen specimens, 4 males, 13 females, 1 nymph. 



Kioto, Japan. Y. Hirase (9), No. 17. 



Japan. Dr. H. C. Wood (9). 



This species was described from Korea and Yamada, Hondo, tlie 



latter locality being on the east coast not very far from Kioto. 



Aiolopus' tamulus (Fabrieius). 



1798. [OryUtts] Tamulus Fnhricms, Entom. Syst., Suppl., p. 195. 



One female. 



Kioto, Japan. Y. Hirase. 



As already pointed out by Brunner,* this name far antedates 

 tficoloripes Burmeister. 



Mecostethus magister n. sp. 



Type, c?. 



Japan. Dr. H. C. Wood. 



This species appears to be closely related to the North American 

 M. lineatus (Scudder), but differs in the greater size, the more 

 sharply defined and constricted frontal costa, the comparatively 



2 This name, used by Fieber (Lotos, III, p. 100. May, 1853), should 

 replace Stenoboihriis Fischer on the grouads of prioriiy. 



' As in the case of Chorthippus, this name has priority over Epacromia 

 Fischer. 



* Be vision du Syst. Orthopt., p. 128. 




632 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



shorter wiugs, and in the cannation of the ventral surface of the 

 subgenilal plate. No relationship appears to exist with the Euro- 

 pean Mi'codethus grossus (Linn.). 



Head moderately prominent, tlie frontal costa forming a very 

 marked angle at the junclion with the fastigium ; fastigiuni jjro- 

 duced, the median and lateral carinne well marked, and all termi- 

 nating at tlie narrowly truncate apex ; frontal costa slightly expand- 

 ing ventrad, sulcata throughout, the margins] slightly constricted at 

 the ocellus; eyes large, ovoid, moderately prominent; anteunse 

 depressed, very much longer than head and pronotum. Prouotum 

 rugulose ; cephalic margin truncate, caudal margin obtuse-augulate, 

 lateral carina; apparent only on the cephalic margin of the prozona, 

 median carina well developed, uniform, severed by the transverse 

 sulcus which crosses slightly caudal to the middle; lateral lobes 

 with the ventro-cephalic angle rounded, tegmina exceeding the 

 caudal femora. Mesosternal lobes separated by a space sub- 

 quadrate in outline; metasternal lobes very narrowly separated 

 caudad. 8ubgenital plate strongly produced, the caudal portion 

 subhastate in outline, bearing a marked longitudinally disposed 

 caiina on the ventral surface. Caudal femora slender, genicular 

 lobes rounded ; tibite almost equaling the femora in length, bearing 

 12-13 spines on the margins. 



Color (specimen from spirits). — General tint dull grayish -brown, 

 eyes, postocular streak and lateral lobes of tiio pronotum reddish- 

 brown. Ulnar area and extremity of the tegmina blackish, this color 

 also suffusing the genicular region of the caudal femora and tibia; 

 as well as the distal extremities of the latter. Scapular area of the 

 tegmina whitisli. 



^fea.mremetlU. 



Length i>f licad and body 28. .j mm. 



Length of pronotum, 6.5 " 



Length of tegmina 27 " 



Length of hind femora lit 



Subfaiiiilv CEdipodinae. 



(Edaleus nigrofasoiatas (DeGeer). 



1773. Aerndiiim nigrofntciaUim DeGeer, Mem. Ins., Ill, p. 493, PI. 

 .41. fig. 5. 



A series of 90 specimens of tiiis very variable species. The 

 following locjililies and sources were repre.aented in the series: 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 633 



Japan. Dr. H. C. Wood (4). 



Yokohama, Japan. Rev. H. Loomis (30), Rehn Collectiou. 



Kioto, Japan. Y. Hirase (54), Nos. 10 and 23. 



Chemulpo, Korea. Dr. W. H. Jones (2). 



With the exten.sive series examined ample opportunity was pre- 

 sented for studying the range of variation exhibited by this species. 

 Several of the types would be regarded as distinct, if it were not 

 that the extremes and intermediates occurred in the same locality. 

 The variations have been studied under two heads — structure and 

 coloration. 



Structure. 



The most peculiar and the most unusual structural form of this 

 species is that in which the cephalic portion of the dorsal aspect of 

 the pronotum is strongly inflated or bullate. Four specimens in 

 the .series illustrate this singular phase, between which and the 

 normal condition no intermediates were examined. Kioto and 

 Yokohama were the localities represented in the four specimens. 



The other great structural difference is in the median carina of 

 the pronotum. In the majority of cases it is straight or very 

 slightly arcuate, with a slight incision at the transverse s ulcus ; in 

 some cases it is much more arcuate on the prozona than in the 

 metazona; in a few (7) it is highly arched, not notched by the 

 transverse sulcus. The specimens belonging in the latter category 

 are all from Yokohama. 



Examples of this species are found both subbrachypterous and 

 macropterous. 



Coloration. 



The two general types of coloration, the brown and green, as 

 pointed out by Saussure, are present in the series, many representa- 

 tives of each, and a great number of intermediates showing what a 

 wide range this broadly diffused species has in thei color scheme. 



The extreme green phase has the base color of the head, prono- 

 tum and dorsal aspects of the closed tegmina and ca udal femora, 

 as well as portions of the pleurae rich grass green, the lateral por- 

 tions of the tegmina basally of a chocolate tint marbled with 

 cream, the overlying tint being grouped into transverse bars 

 anteriorly. 



The extreme brown phase is of a general dull umber tint, the 




634 PROCKEDING8 OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



maculalions of the tegmina and posterior femora (these parts being 

 uniform in the green phase) being brownish-black. 



Between these two extremes are found many intermediates repre- 

 senting almost imperceptible gradations. Many individuals show- 

 variations which are individual or restricted to a comparatively few 

 examples. The most important of these appear to be worthy 

 of note. 



The presence of four converging light lines on the pronotuin 

 somewhat in the form of a cross These lines are present only in 

 the brown phase, or closely related intermediates, and in some 

 specimens are strongly marked, but as a rule are but faintly so. In 

 DeGeer's original figure of this species (PI. XLI, fig. 5) this 

 pattern of coloration is represented, though in rather a crude 

 manner. The blending of the chocolate marbling on the lateral 

 portions of the tegmina to form transverse bars is also a noticeable 

 character. This latter phase is mainly found in the green type. 



(Edaleus infernalis Saussure. 



18SI. Oildaleus] infernalis Saussure, Prodromus CEiiipodiorura. |i. 

 116. 



Three specimens, 1 c? (?), ^ females. 

 Japan. No further data. 

 Kioto, Japan. Y. Hirase. 



One specimen is apparently a male, but the tip of the abdomen 

 is missinir. 



Paohytylus migratorias (Linnitus). 



IToS. [Grylliis] {Locusta) migratorius Linnaeus, Syst. Nat., X ed., 

 p. 433. 



One female. 



Chemulpo, Korea. Dr. W. H. .Jones. 



Pachytylns oinerasoens (Fabriiiu?). 



179;J. [Gri/llns] ciaerascens Fabricius, Ent. Syst., II, p. 59. 



Three specimens, 1 male, 2 females 

 C'hemulpo, Korea. Dr. \V. H. Jones (2). 

 Chefoo, China. Dr. W. H. Jones (1). 



Trilophidia annnlata japonioa Saussure. 



188S. Trlil'iphidiii annulata] var.Japont'ea Saussure, Addit. Prodr. 

 (Kdipi)ilioruin, p. 54. 



Four specimens, 2 males, 2 females. 

 Kioto, Japan. Y. Hirase, No. 28. 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. fi35 



Subfamily Pyrgomorphinse. 

 Atractomorpha bedeli Bolivar. 



1884. Aifdctoinorplia Bedeli Bolivar, Monografia de \o> Pirgomor- 

 finos, p. 09. 



Thirty-two specimens, 9 male?, 20 females, 3 uymphs. 



Japau. Dr. H. C. Wood (3). 



Yokohama, Japan. Rev. H. Loomis (2). Rehn CoUectiou. 



Kioto, Japan. Y. Hirase (27), Nos. 20 and 21. 



One specimen from Kioto differs from the usual form in having 

 the whole superior aspect of the insect speckled with blackish- 

 brown instead of being imiform greenish. In the males the supe- 

 rior surface of the abdomen is bright carmine. 



Subfamily Locustinse {Acridiinm Auct.). 

 Oxya velox (Fabricius). 



1798. ^Gryllus'] velox Fabricius, Entom. Syst., II, p. 60. 

 Nineteen specimens, 10 male,-, 9 females. 

 Kioto, Japan. Y. Hirase. Xos. 18 and 19 (part). 

 As noticed by Brunner, ' this species, which iLsually passes us 

 hyla Serville, should bear the name given above. 



Oxya vicina Brunner. 



18!)3. Olxya'\ vicina Bruuuer. Rev. du Syst. des Orthoptercs, p. 152. 



Thirty -one specimens, 16 males, 15 females. 



Yokohama, Japan. Rev. H. Loomis (4), Rehn Collection. 



Kioto, Japan. Y. Hirase (27), Nos. 18 and 19 (part). 



This species is very closely allied to 0. velox, but differs in 

 several characters which, while not striking, are sufficient to differ- 

 entiate it with little trouble. 



As ]5runner has simply given a key and a brief description of 

 this species, the notes made after a comparative examination with 

 specimens of 0. velox may be of interest. 



The ventral surface of the last segment of the abdomen iu the 

 female of vicina is longitudinally bicarinate for the greater part of 

 its length; in velox this is smooth. The basal portion of the 

 mediastiue area of the legmina in the female of vicina Ls moder- 

 ately expanded, the margin gently rounded ; in velox this section is 

 but slightly <uore developed, but the greatest depth is caudal and 

 not median, while the margin is abruptly excavated posteriorly, 

 quite different from the gentle curve of vicina. 



' Revision du Syst. des Orthopteres, p. 152. 




63fi PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



The tegmina in velox always exceeds the caudal femora in length, 

 while in vieina they do not equal it. This is apparently the only 

 method of distinguishing the males of the two species. 



Another rather interestmg character noticed is that in velox the 

 dorsal aspect of the proaotum is uniform wood-brown, while in 

 vidua it is greenish in all the specimens examined but one. Fab- 

 ricius with little doubt had velox as restricted by Brunner, as his 

 description particularly mentions the brown surface of the pro- 

 uotum. 



Locusta' japonioa (Bolivar). 



1899. Ai'ridium Japoriienm Bolivar, Ann. Mus. Civ. Stor. Nat. 

 Genova, XXXIX. p. 98. 



Twenty-four specimens, 15 males, 9 females. 



Japan. Dr. H. C. Wood (1). 



Yokohama, Japan. Kev. H. Loomis (23), Rehn Collection. 



This species posse.sses a dull, uniformly colored phase of which 

 three representatives are in the series examined. 



Burr' erroneously credits this species to Burmeister, probai>ly 

 through a slip of the pen. 



Coptaora fffidata (Serville)? 



1839. Acridium. fcedatum Serville, Ortliopteres, p. 662. 



Six specimens, 1 male, o females. 



Japan. Dr. II. C. Wood. 



As these specimens liave been im]nersod for a considerable time 

 in spirits, little can be determined on comparison with Serville's 

 description. It is mainly by the elimination of C. pnrmorna 

 Slal, of which cijaiwplera Stal and annulipes Bolivar appear to be 

 .synonyms,* and which possesses a nou-sulcate frontal costa, that 

 we arrive at some idea of the relationship of the specimens. Ser- 

 ville's species has been recorded from Java, Burma and Cambodia. 



Fodisma dairisama Scudder? 



1897. Podisma dairisama ScuJdcr, Proc. V. 8. Nat. Mus., X.\, p. 

 \U. 



Three males. 



Japan. Dr. H. ('. Wood. 



These specimens, while api)areutly referable to this species, differ 



'' For tlie use of Lociistn in tliis connection see Rclin, J£nt. News, XIII, 

 !>. Wi. 

 ■ Kul. Month. Magm., XXXIV, p. 29. 

 " Vide. Brunner, HeeMon du Syit. dei Orthopt., pp. 159-160. 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 637 



in the very short tegmina, which are in no case half as long as 

 the tegmina, and in the quadrate interspace between the raesoster- 

 nal lobes and excavated blunt tips to the cerci. Kegarding the 

 latter Seudder says (antea, p. 115) " blunt-tipped," but the 

 figure (PI. VIII, fig. 7) gives no idea of the character of the 

 apex as iound in the specimens here examined. 



Podiama mikado (Bolivari. 



1891. Pezotettix Mikado Bolivar, Anales See. Espaii. Hist. Nat., 

 XIX, cuad. 3, p. 333. 



Eight specimens, 1 male, 4 females, 3 nymphs. 



Japan. Dr. H. C. AVood. 



This species was originally described from the female alone, and 

 on comparing the description with my specimens it seems that they 

 are identical. In the general form of the subgenital plate the male 

 agrees with Podisma as restricted by Seudder,' but in the caudal 

 extension • of the pronotum it agiees with Eupodkma Seudder, '" 

 which has for its type Podisma primnoa Fischer do Waldheira, 

 from Transbaicalia and the Amur region of eastern Siberia. 



As the male has never been described, a few notes on the ab- 

 dominal appendages may be of interest. 



Supra-anal plate obtuse-angulate at the apex, with a median 

 shallow sulcus which is centrally constricted. Cferci tapering in 

 the basal two-thirds, but apically expanded and excavated, the 

 terminal portion slightly depressed. Furcula rounded, scarcely 

 perceptible lobes. Subgenital plate very bi-oad basally, with an 

 acuminate subapical process ; margin circular, entire. 



Eyprepoonemis plorans (Cbarpentier). 



1835. Oryllug plorans Cliarpentier. Hers EntouioIogiciB, p. 134. 

 Five females. 

 Yokohama, Japan. Rev. H. I;Oomis. Kehn Collection. 



'•• Proe. U. 8. Nat. Mus., XX, pp. 12 and 111. 

 '"Ibid., pp. 12, 112 and 117. 




63S PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Ocl. , 



THEEE NEW AMERICAN BATS. 

 BY JAMES A. G. REHN. 



Artibeus hercules n. si>. 



Type.^^o. 5,785, Collectioa of the Academy of Natunil Science* 

 of Philadelphia. 



Eastern Peru. Collected by John Hauxwell. Presented by 

 E. D. Cope. 



General Characters. — Allied to .,1. planirostris (Spix). but 

 differing in the larger size, the much larger foot and in nuraerou.-^ 

 dental characters. 



Size. — This form is much larger than A. planirostris, its only 

 ally. The foot averages at least two and a half millin)eters longer, 

 the forearm exhibits over five niillimetei's difference, and the tibia 

 and metacarpus of the third finger are also more extensive, the 

 former averaging three millimeters and the latter over six milli- 

 meters difference. 



Foot. — The foot is very slender, in fact no wider llian in ,1. 

 planirostris, though averaging over two millimeters longer. The 

 foot of planiro.itvis is heavy and broad, the basal portion being 

 the same length as in hercules, the difference in the latter being 

 wholly in the leuglh of the toes. 



Color. — These specimens have been in alcohol for a number of 

 years, and a.-; a result the exact color of the membranes and fur 

 cannot be ascertained They appear much darker than in plani- 

 rostris, but this is in all probability due to the preserving fluid. 



S.'citll — The single skull of A. hercules examined is that of a 

 paralype and lacks the cranial portion. The anterior .section of 

 the skull is, as in accordance with the general characters, mucii 

 larger and heavier, the palate being comparatively wider. The 

 mandible has the coronoid process with a forward trend, which is 

 not noticed in ,1. planiroslri-s. 



Teeth. — Second upper premolar subquadrate in ba.sal outline, 

 (juite different from the subpyriform tooth of ^i. planirostris, the 

 internal node well developed and forming a conspicuous cusp. 




1902.] 



JfATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



639 



First upper molar broad, deep, the anterior inner angle more devel- 

 oped than in A. planirostris, which species has this portion 

 rounded. Second lower premolar very heavy and broad, the poste • 

 rior internal border with the dentate ridge low. First lower molar 

 subquadrale in outline. 



Remarks. — This species is quile distinct from A. planirostris 

 (Spix), the only species to which it is at all closely related, The 

 large size and rather peculiar dentition will immediately distin- 

 guish it. 



Comparative measurements. 



A. hereules. 



Length of forearm, 



Length of tibia, 



Length of foot, .... 18 



Length of metacarp . (3d finger) 61 . 5 



Length of ear 20 



No. 5,785, 



Eastern 



Peru. 



65.2 mm. 

 24 " 



Average 



of two 



specimens. 



65.1 mm. 

 24.5 " 

 18.5 " 



61.2 " 

 20.5 " 



A. planiros- 

 tris. 

 Cbapada, 

 Brazil. 

 Average 

 of two 

 .specunens 



60 mm . 



21.5 " 



16 



55 



20 



Skull. 



Length of upper tooth row. 

 Width across first molar, . 

 Length of lower tooth row. 



A. hereules. 

 No. 5,786. 



12 mm. 



14.5 " 

 12.5 " 



[. planirostrin 

 No. 4. 877. 



10.5 mm. 



13 



11 



Artibeus parvipes n. sp. 



Type. — No. 5,494, Collection of the Academy of Natural Sciences 

 of Philadelphia. 



Santiago de Cuba, Cuba, March 15, 1892. Male. CoUecled 

 and presented by Dr. Benjamin Sharp. 



General Characters. — Allied to the Jamaican A. jamaicensis 

 Leach, but differing in the smaller forearm and tibia, aud the 

 narrower and lighter built foot. 



Distribution . — Specimens from Santiago province, Cuba, are all 

 that have been examined. 



Size. — General size apparently the same as jamaicensis, but the 

 forearm and tibia are constantly smaller. The forearms of six 

 specimens average 53.7 mm., against 58.3 mm. in six specimens 




640 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



oi jamaieeiuis. The tibiae average 20.8 against 21.!* mm. in the 

 same series. 



Foot. — ^The foot is narrower and lightly built throughout, while 

 in javiaieen-ns the foot is heavier and each toe is indi\'idually 

 broader. 



Color. — Apparently the same as jamaicensis, but no skins liave 

 been examined. 



Skull. — Identical with A. jamaicensis, but very slightly smaller. 



Teeth. — The second upper premolar is broader and with a heavier 

 internal .shoulder, the teeth being actually broailer than jamaicen'iii, 

 though the latter possesses a slightly larger skull. 



Remarkf. — This form is easily separated from the Jamaican 

 animal by the lighter, slenderer foot and the shorter forearm. 



Specimens Examined. — Seven alcoholic specimens. 



Santiago de Cuba. One (t)T3e). The Academy of Natural 

 Sciences of Philadelphia. 



!Mt. Magota, Santiago I'rov., Cuba. Six. The Academy of 

 Natural Sciences of Philadelplna. 



Comparative m eamrenteuts. 



jamaicensis. parvipis. 



No. 5,7a5, Type No. 5. 404, 



A. N. S. Philii. A. N. S. Pliila. 



Port Anlonio, Santiago de 



Jamaica. Cuba. 



Length of forearm .58 mm. 52.5 mm. 



Length of tibia 23.5 " 21.5 " 



Length of foot 15 " 14 



Length of ear 18.5 " 1d.5 " 



A short time ago Dr. J. I'ercy Moore, of tiie University of 

 Pennsylvania, submitted to me an alcoholic s|jecinien of a species 

 of Nticlinomu-i from tlie Baiiamas. A ha.<ty examination and com- 

 parison with available nuiterial revealed tiie fact that it represented 

 a distinct form. Later, after speaking to Mr. (j. S. Miller, Jr., 

 of the U. S. National Mu.seuni, regarding the auiinal, he kindly 

 turned over to me a series of skins of this species from Little Abaco, 

 which had been submitted to him by tlie British Mu.seuni. A 

 stt'ica of Cuban s|)ecimcns were aist) forwarded which greatly facili- 

 tated compari.<on. 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 641 



Nyctinomus bahamensis n. sp. 



Tijpe. — Collection of the School of Biology, University of Penu- 

 sylvania. Governor's Harbor, Eleuthera, Bahamas, November 

 18, 1890. ]Male. CoUecterl by Dr. J. Percy Moore. 



General Characters. — Closely allied to the Cuban form of the 

 brasiliensis grouiD, but differing in the larger size, in the shallower 

 central emargination of the nose-pad, and the more grayish gen- 

 eral coloration. 



DUtrlbatioii. — Specimens have been examined from Eleuthera 

 and Little Abaco, Bahamas. 



She. — Apparently intermediate between cynocephalus from the 

 mainland and the ('uban form of the brasiliensis group. The fore- 

 arm is constantly longei" than that of the (!uban form, which 

 discrepancv also applies to the tail. 



Head. — -The nose-pad of bahamensis has the upper line almost 

 straight, the central emargination being very shallow; in the 

 Cuban form the emargination is much deeper and more rotundate. 



Color. — Upper parts broccoli-brown, drab-gray below. The 

 Cuban form is Prout's brown above, below drab. 



Skull. — Exactly as in the Cuban form. 



Remarks. — This form may be readily differentiated from the 

 Cuban form by the length of the forearm, while the coloration on 

 actual comparison is fairly distinctive. 



Sjieeiinens Examined — One alcoholic specimen and six skins. 



Eleuthera. One ale (type). University of Pennsylvania. 



Little Abaco. Six skins. British Museum. 



Comparative measurements. 



El Guamo, Cuba. Little Abaco, Bahamas. 



No. 10:!,77e, No. 31, 



U. S. N. M. Coll. J. L. Bonhote. 

 Total length, ... 85 mm. 91 mm. 



Length of forearm, . 36 " 42 " 



length of tail, . . 29 " 36 " 



41 




642 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Ocl., 



ADDITIONAL OBSERVATIONS ON THE STRIND FLOSi OF NEW JERSEY. 

 BY JOHN W. HARSHBERGER, PH.D. 



The writer presented at some length in the Proceedings for 1900 

 (pp. 623-671) au " Ecological Study of the New Jersey Strand 

 Flora " The supplomenlary study which is given here represents 

 the material collected in a field study since the publication of the 

 aforementioned brochure. The notes are arranged under several 

 subheads, but, when taken together, they throw additional light 

 upon a region of ecologic interest. 



The Strand at Holly Beach. 



Holly Beach, situated one mile beyond Wildwood, was visited a 

 second lime in August, 1901, for a more extended survey. The 

 beach along the sea front is flat, as at Wildwood, without a sea- 

 dune. The driftwood area in 1901 was very extensive. The tree 

 formation, which is dense at Wildwood, gradually decreases in 

 extent until it disappears at the edge of an extensive salt meadow. 

 Along the edge of the grass-covered meadows, the gra.ss of which 

 was being cut for hay, were found an abundance of the rose mal- 

 low, JJiblncAis moscheutiis L. , Kodelctzkya virginka Cli'ay, Cassia 

 chaimvcrUla L. and A-clepia-i incarnala L. Vephiilanthun occiden- 

 tali» L. was Doticed in the thicket growth. The meadow was 

 .sufficiently high in many })laces to enable the farmer to cultivate 

 Indian corn, which grew normally in such unusual surroundings. 



Forest at Wildwood. 



The trees of this forest seem to have reached maturity and 

 are on the decline. This is without doubt due to the removal of 

 the undergrowth from aliuut the trunks of the dominant trees. 

 The soil dries out more (juickly under such altered conditions, 

 the wind has better chance to i-each the trees and to circulate 

 about them, producing an increased transpiration which proves 

 deadly to the maturcr arborescent species thai had established a 

 balance between the absorption of water by the roots and the 




1902] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 643 



transpiralioQ of water from the leaves. As an indication of this, 

 the tops of many of the trees have died. " Before Columbus," 

 a cedar mentioned in the first paper, has been injured by the 

 disturbance of this nice balance. "Elliptical" is dead. 

 " United We Stand " is a fanciful name given to two united holly 

 trees. " The Union " is a growth where a cedar and a holh' tree 

 have been joined by an ancient natural approach grafting. 



The Strand at Sea Side Park. 



Observation at this place on the New Jersey shore was conducted 

 in 1901, from Augu>t 24 to September 2. Kndeletzkya virginiea 

 A. Gray was abundant in the converted salt meadow. It opens its 

 flower.* for insect pollination early in the morning before 9 o'clock, 

 and closes them about 1 o'clock; for by 2 o'clock the flowers are 

 closed lightly. Hibiscus moncheutos L. opens its flowers just after 

 sunrise, and the flowers remain open until about sundown, when the 

 petals begin to roll together. As will be shown in a subsequent paper, 

 this [)Iant shows mutation, and in many respects corroborates the 

 statements of DeVries on the origin of species by mutation.'. The 

 changes produced in the flora by the grading operations on the 

 upper end of the strand are most marked. E'-hinoehloa crus-galli 

 (L. ) Beauv. (^Panicum cniJi-ga/li L. var. kkpidum)- was abun- 

 dant, and associated with this grass in the graded areas of sand 

 Spnrtina polystarJu/a (Michx. ) L. , Spartina patetis (Ait.) Muhl. ; 

 while as a newly introduced weed, Linarla linaria (L. ) Karst. 

 {Liaaria vulgaris Mill.) grew in association with one of the sand 

 grasses, Sleglingia purpurea (Walt.) K.unlze (Tricusphi purpurea 

 A. Gray). Mollugo vertie.illata L. was found along the railroad 

 in abundance in 1901 and in the dune complex in 1902. Wherever 

 the areas burned over annually were left undisturbed in 1901, 

 there Rhu-s cnpaUina L. grew with the utmost vigor, and this was 

 accentuated in 1902 upon a return to the beach after an absence 

 of a twelvemonth. 



The Hibiscus society mentioned in the previous report of the 

 strand at Sea Side Park was found in 1901 to be encroached upon 

 by Rfnf< copallinn L. and Scirpua debilis L. , so that an admixture of 

 these plants took the place of the pure growth of the rose mallow. 



'DeVries. D'e MiUationstheorie. 



^ Names after Britton, Manual of the Flora of the U. S. and Canada. 




644 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Oct., 



The following plants were iioteil upon the beach along Baruegat 

 Bay, near the Island Beach Life Saving Station, in 1901, viz., 

 Mollugo veHwillata Li. , Echinoehloa crus-galli (L. ) Beauv. {Pani- 

 cum, crus-galH var. hispiduni), Cyperus strigosus L. and Erechtites 

 hieracifolia (L ) Raf. Wherever the wind acts with its full trans- 

 porting power in the dune complex, the dunes of which are 

 held in place by Myrica cerifera L., Ammophila arenaria (L. ) 

 Link, Uudsoiiia iomentosa Nutt., Primus mariiima Wang and 



Fig. 1. 

 k. Myica cerifera L. ; f. TJurisunia tomentota Nutt. ; t. Pure sand. ; 

 u. Sulidayo senijiervirensL. ; w. Ammophila arenarin (L.) Link. 



Rlnis radicaiu L , there the sand is scooped out and carried away 

 with the forinaiiou of a dune hollow, into the bottom of which the 

 ground water rises by seepage The steps in this process can be 

 followed at South Sea Side Park. A dune valley, which has not 

 been brought down lo the level of the ground water, may consist 

 of- pure sand bottom and sides without vegetation, or. if plants be 

 present, they aie confined to the area of drifted sand and not to 

 the area that is wind-swept. In such a hollow, the drifted sand 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 645 



supports, as shovvn in fig. 1, three characler plants, viz., Myrica 

 cerifera L., Suiidago sempervirens L. and Hudsonia tom-iitosa 

 Nutt. The sides of the irregular basin not wind-swept support the 

 marram grass, Ammophila arenaria (L. ) Link, Solidngo nemper- 

 virens L., Hitdsonia tomentosa Nutt., and an occasional clump of 

 wax-berry, Myrica cerifera L. If the sand is still farther trans- 

 ported by the wind, there remain hillocks of dry sand in the center 

 of a level damp stretch on ihti level of the ground water Some- 

 times the bottom of the hollow forms a level trough of wet sand, 

 surrounded by sun-dried sand on all sides. Such a hollow, illus- 



u. Snlidfigo sempervirens L. 

 nirgaiuin L. ; I. Pure sand. 



Fig. 3. 



V. Scirpus debilis Pursh ; x. Panicum 



trated in the accompanj-ing figure (fig. 2), is tenanted by three 

 character plants. The wet sand supports a continuous growth of 

 Scirpus debilis L. ; the side of the dune trough, Panicum virgntum 

 L., a grass which may be called a tussock grass, because it 

 does not form a eonliQ>ious turf, but grows in clumps more or less 

 isolated from each other. In the higher drier sand of the depres- 

 sion, before the slopes of the dunes of the dune complex; are 

 reached, there grows a character plant, Solidago se'npervirens L. 

 We have, therefore, a replacement of the original dune occupants, 




646 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Oct., 



viz., AnmopMla arevaria (L. ) Link, Hudsonia tomentona Nult., 

 Myrica Cfrijera L. etc., by three plants, Seirpus debilis L. , Pani- 

 cum virgatum L. and Solidayn sempevfiretis L. If this process is 

 carried still farther, (hen we have a large number of marsh-loving 

 species appearing in the wet sand of the basin-shaped or elongated 

 depression. The following figure (fig. 3) shows such a dune val- 



y. Typlia IntifoUa L. ; t. Pure sand ; z. Srirput debilin Pursli. ; u. S^oli- 

 dogo sei/ipervirensl.. ; 7.7.. Kiithiimiu curoliniaun (L,. i GTeene ; k. Myrica 

 cerifera L. ; h. Ci/perus nutiuUii Etlily ; w. Ainmophila areuarid (L.) 

 Link ; (1. Juncun sp. 



ley, the boltom of which is wet by the sespage of the ground wafer 

 through the .«and. The lower damp, marshy places arc covered 

 with a growth of Scirpiis debilU L., from which arises Typha 

 lat!f(dia 1.1. and a tall .sedge, Sclrjni.^ xii/ralicitK L. The higher si ill 

 damp areas sujiport Ci/j)eiu.i miilallii Eddy and Jttiicu.s sp., although 

 these two plants are, as a rule, not found in association. The 

 islands, or knc)lls of sand, which remain in (he marshy area are 

 held in tilu by Myrica vrijitra L., Aiiimojthita arenarin (L. ) Link 

 and Solidago senipervireiis L. These three plants grow together 

 side by side. Enlh'unia rnrnliiiianu (L. ) Greene {ISolidngo tenui- 

 folia I'ursh. ) is found where ihe sand is damp. The sand marsh is 




1902.] 



NATUKaL sciences of PHILAnELPHIA. 



647 



fringed directly with Ammnphila arenaria (L. ) Link, Solidago 

 sempfrvirens L. and an occasional Munca hcrry, while outside of 

 these the slopes of the dunes are wind-swept and destitute of 

 vegetation. In the degradation of a dune and the formation 

 of a wind-swept hollow, we have a succession of societies which are 

 approaching the ultimate state, that cf a mesophylic thicket. The 

 transition, noticed in the dune complex at Sea Side Park, is from 

 an intensely xerophytic association of species to marsh-dwelling 

 xerophytes, and from these in turn to xerophytic shrubs and trees 

 culminating in a mesophylic thicket filling the extent of the original 

 dune valley. 



The annexed figure (fig. 4) illustrates a xerophytic marsh associa- 



¥is. 4. 



a. (ixycorciis mncrnenrpvs {^KW.) Vers. \ b. Vaccinium corymbosumh. 

 ami Giiylumtdcia rcsi/nixii (Ait.) T. & G. ; c. Punicum virr/ntii/n L. ; 

 (1. Jiinnin s\i. ; e. Ditixeni rofuiiclifntiH L. : f. Iliidnunia nimeiitosa Nult.; 

 g. /.i/aipudii/m ciirolinidin/m L. ; Ii. Pugnina ojihioyUnoiiiides (U.) Tver. ; 

 i. Jlix yliilira (L.) .\. Gmy ; j. Jlex op -ni. Ail. : k, Myrica rerif-ra L. ; 

 1. Jniii)>trus virqiiiiinin \j. : ni. Fiiim^ ri'jidd M.\\\.; n. h.rosera filiformia 

 Rat'. ; o. (^ne ciix viintir (Maisli) Sarg. ; p. Anrirnpnfjiia •cirijin'Ciis L. ; 

 q. Kiilniiit iiiir/nslifvha L. ; r. Chammcypiiris thyoides ^L.) B. S. P. ; 

 9. Acer riibrum L. 



tion in the transverse dune complex at Sea Side Park, surrounded 




648 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



hy the encroaching army of shrubs and Irees of xerophytic habit 

 in the stage before the culminating one, the mesophylic thicket. 

 The mesophytic thicket at South Sea Side Park occupies from what 

 has gone before the hollows, or rounded depressions in tlie dune 

 complex, and in its simplest raake-np consists of the two following 

 associations of species: One thicket examined consists of Piiius 

 rigida Mill., Saasafras sassafras (L. ) Karst., Vaceinium corymbo- 

 sum L. , Juniperus virginiana L. , Chain(r.cyparis thjoides (L. ) B. 

 S. P. and Mijriea cerifera L.. Another hollow contains Ikx 

 opaca Ait., Juniperus virginiana L. , Prunus marilima Wang, 

 while, as an undergrowth, a.ssociated together, are Rhus radlcans 

 L. and Solidago sempervirens L. 



Either before the final condition is reached, or after such thickets 

 have been formed, the original condition of the dune complex may 

 be restored by the drifting in of the sand into the depression, result- 

 ing in a destruction of the long-established plant societies. Such 

 vicissitudes iu the life history of plant societies are not common, 

 although examples are found occasionally on the New Jersey 

 strand. As a rule, before the final culmination of dune hollow 

 history is reached, the elevated sand hills surrounding it are cap- 

 tured by sand-binding plants, such as Ammophila arenaria (L. ) 

 Link, but especially ILulionia tomentosa Nutt., which forms 

 heaths about the depression, effectuallj' preventing the transport 

 of the sand and its deposition in the basin-shaped valleys adjoin- 

 ing. In case the sand is transported, it begins to till up the dune 

 valley through the action of the oceanic flotsam and jotsam. 

 The accumulatiou of such material iu the storm-washed waterways 

 between the dunes has gone on for ages. Before the advent of 

 civilized man, the material washed ashore consisted of the trunks 

 and limbs of trees, seaweed, leaves and the floatable objects cai-ried 

 to sea by the rivers. Since the occn])ation of the shore by white 

 men, the flotsam and jetsam consists of a remarkable collect ion of 

 nondescript rubbish, such as ship timbers, chips of wood, broken 

 boards, spars of boats, sides of ro'vboats, old cols, matlrcs.<es, 

 bottles, and, in fact, anything and everything used by man that is 

 floatable and can stand the action of salt water for months at a 

 time. 



The piling uj) of such rubbish in the dune complex acts as an 

 effective means of binding the sand and preventing its drifliog. 




1002.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. ti49 



Soon about such objects the sand begins to form a dune, which 

 grows larger and higher as the seasons pass until it is covered by 

 the marram grass which binds it. A new washway may be made 

 around this newly formed dune and the drift of previous years 

 may be uncovered. The writer believes that if a trench were dug 

 for a mile or two along the beacb and paralleling the ocean, a dis- 

 tinct stratum of rubbish would be revealed, if the excavation was 

 made deep enough to reach the level above the ground water. 



The presence of so much wood undergoing decay accounts for 

 the growth of the fungi found by the writer growing in the 

 pure (?) sand of the dune complex. Astrcrws stellatu.s is common. 

 TliKlephora terrestris Ft. is found growing about the stems of Hud- 

 sonia tomentosa Nutt. The puffball, Lycoperdon turneri E. aud E., 

 was found associated with these, while Clitocybe trullmda Ellis, 

 found with largely developed base and small pileus, indicates, 

 according to Prof. Peck who identified it, something unusual in the 

 conditions of growth. Fuliffo (j-Ethalium) septica Gmel., a myxo- 

 ruycele, is found commonly attached to decaying driftwood. 



Several new plants were found in 1902 growing in close con- 

 tiguity with the objects drifted in through the oceanic spillways. 

 Arieink'M delleriana Bess., reported previou.sly from eastern Mas- 

 sachusetts and Sandy Hook, was found. Rumex acetosella L. and 

 Helianthus sp. were also collected iu such situations. Only one 

 conclusion can be drawn from their presence, namely, that their 

 seeds were washed ashore with the rubbish mentioned. 



The thicket formation on the strand a mile below the Island 

 Beach Life Saving Stalion perceptibly narrows its width. At the 

 Island Beach Life Saving Station it forms a broad baud of vegeta- 

 tion, but below this point it is nowhere over a hundred yards wide 

 and is confined to the more sheltered bay side of Barnegat pen- 

 insula. Between the thicket formation and the narrow forest, 

 the dune complex forms the dominant feature of the landscape, 

 except where a slue or thoroughfare enters the beach from the bay 

 side. At one place the strand is so narrow where this slue extends, 

 that during heavy storms in winter the ocean and bay meet, cutting 

 the strand into islands more or less separated from each other. 

 Scirpus lacustrk L is the character plant along the edge of this 

 slue, and where the slue becomes a marsh thi.s plant forms pure 

 societies. Where the ground becomes firmer, social groups of 




650 PKOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



HihUcm moscheutos L. hold sway, while on the higher grouud 

 along ihe borders BaccharU halimijolla L. , Rhus copallina L. ami 

 Myrica eerifera L. occur. 



The importance of these slues and the corresponding channels or 

 spillways cut into the dune complex during the heavy storms of 

 winter, when bay and ocean may be said to unite, is evident upon 

 careful consideration. Barnegat Bay and many similar ones along 

 the Jersey coast are practically free from aquatic vegetation, such 

 as Zoitera marina L., Fuciis vemulonis L., Va/lisneria spiralis L. , 

 etc., which may contribute material to fill up the bay with vegetal 

 detritus. The water in physical constitution oscillates between two 

 extremes, salt and fresh. If the barrier between the sea and the 

 lagoon is at times closed, so that the water in the bays becomes 

 fresh, the result is that plants which are especially adapted to the 

 production of salt marshes are killed by the fresh waters, while the 

 occasional invasion of salt water during storms by way of the dune 

 hollows and stronger tides through the inlets destroys the fresh- 

 water plants, which might otherwise establish a swamp of their 

 species. By these alternations some of the largest bays have been 

 kept open, although in many places shallow in the extreme. 

 Riippiu maritima L., as it grows in Barnegat Bay, seems to be the 

 only species which has succeeded in adapting itself to such fluctu- 

 ating conditions. Tt has been referred to as the character plant of 

 the shallower waters of that bay, and with the consideration of 

 the above facts its probable future role in preparing the way for 

 other adaptive hydrophytes becomes evident. 



LuDLAM .\M) Seven ]\Iri.E Beaches. 



Strictly speaking, a beach is that part of a shore between high 

 and low water, but in New Jer.-;ey the term is api)lied to what are 

 really sea islands. Ludlam Beach, on which Sea Isle City is 

 located, extends from Corson's Inlet to Townseud's Inlet. Except 

 at a point below Sea Isle City, the beach is almost on a level, and 

 during a violent storm it is likely to be entirely submerged, espe- 

 cially at high tide. The dunes that exist below the ■(own are much 

 cut up. Amiiioplvla arenaria (L. ) Link dominates the fore- 

 ground along the beach. The Jlyrica thicket exists on the dune 

 complex associated with Baccharis luilimiJoUa L. and RhxM radi- 

 ear.Jf L. The highest dunes on Ludlam Beach, at Life Saving 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 651 



Station liJo. 34, have a few cedars and stand some distance back 

 from the ocean front, and this disposition of dunes is most marked 

 at Townsend's Inlet, where they encroach on the extensive salt 

 meadows. 



Crossing Townsend's Inlet, Seven-Mile Beach is reached with 

 the highest sea dunes on the whole New Jersey coast. This beach, 

 settled upon in 1788,' was not investigated ecologically prior to 

 the summer of 1901. A description of the flora was not incor- 

 porated, therefore, in my paper published in 1900. Passing 

 Avalon, the higliesi dunes (forty-two feet ) are found close to the 

 sea front. The dunes are held in place by Ammoplula arewiria 

 (L. ) Link, and whei-e llie dune has encroached on the forest an 

 occasional dead tree may be seen sticking out from the dune sur- 

 face. Beyond Piermont, the district of Seven-Mile Beach studied 

 by the writer is reached. The dunes fronting the ocean half-way 

 between Stone Harbor and Piermont are rounded knolls about six 

 to ten feet high covered with marram grass, Ammophila areiiaria 

 (L. ) Link. The beach at low tide is extremely flat, and by the 

 appearance of the sand may be divided into three zonal areas: (1) 

 The firm, hard beach covered at high tide with salt water; (2) a 

 higher beach with dry, loose, drified sand held in place by drift- 

 wood; (3) the wet beach filled at high tide by pools of water. 

 The two latter areas comprise the middle beach of my previous 

 paper. The upper beach is characterized by scattered patches of 

 sea blite, Cakile edentula (Bigel. ) Hook, and Animodevia peploides 

 (L. ) Kupr , which forms rounded annual or temi)orary dunes. 

 Here and there channels have been cut into the low dunes 

 which are hardly worthy of the name, so that at high water 

 the tide runs back to the meadows behind. Several of these cuts 

 occur meeting marshy places behind, surrounded by dunes on the 

 seaward side of the railroad. On the exposed sand of these depres- 

 sions Portulaca oleracea L. grows, and on their edge creeps Stro- 

 plwsitjles helvola (L. ) Britton. Just before the channel joins the 

 marshy areas a large amphitheatre of barren wet sand is found, 

 fringed by Seirpus lacustris L , Atriplex arenaria Nott., Sa/iconiia 

 herbacea L., Portulaca oleracea L., outside of which character 

 plants in concentric circles, Strophostyles heluola (L. ) Britton, 



' The liouse built then stood in Piermont, at Second avenue and Thirty- 

 first street. 




652 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



Pluehea camphorata (L. ) D.C., Cenehrw tribuloides L., Euphor- 

 bia prthjgonifid'm L., Xanthiuiii caiiadfiise Mill. This society may 

 be said to be domiuated by Strophostijles helvola (L. ) Briilon. In 

 the standing water grows in hammocky places Spartina stricfa 

 (Ait.) Kolh. These hammocks catch the blowing ?and and are 

 destined to become dune islands. Such a dune island in the midst 

 of a marsh was covered by Spartina patens (Ait.) Muhl., killed on 

 one side by the sand blast. 



Nearer Piermont, the physiography of the beach changes and 

 the marked feature of this region is the height of the dunes and 

 the absence of marshes and pools of water in the dune complex. 

 The sea beach here is flat and about one hundred feet wide. The 

 same zonal areas of lower and middle beach are present. The 

 upper beach facing the dunes is flat and covered by Sakola tali 

 L., Cakile edenhda (Bigel) Hook and Xauthlum canadense Mill. 

 The frontal dune is ten feet high, sloping on the windward or 

 land side. Upon it grow Ammophila arenaria (L ) Link., Cen- 

 ehrus tribuloides L , Sier/lingia purpurea (Walt ) Kuntze. The 

 Myrica zone is absent in the hollows back of this dune. Its place 

 is taken by the social groups of S'rophoniyles helvola (L. ) Britton 

 which forms dark-green mats. In the deeper hollows, Genirdia 

 maritima Raf. and Euphorbia pohjrjonifolia L may be called char- 

 acter plants. The dune complex is undulating with rising bills of 

 sand, covered on the seaward side by Sli-opho'lyle-i and on the land- 

 ward slope are Sdidnqn acmpcrvirem L. and occasional clumps of 

 Myrica cerifera L. , not dominant; CEnothera humifHsa Nutt., 

 Baccharis halimi folia L. and Jndropogon virginicu4 L. Across 

 the area eonlroUed by these herbaceous plants, the barren wind- 

 swept zone is reached upon which no vegetation grows except the 

 marram grass, Ammophila aretiaria (L. ) Link, an occasional red 

 cedar, and as rare plants, Phytolaca derandra L. and Euphorbia 

 polygoiiifolia L. Dead trees stand up out of the sand over this 

 zone, which is about fix hundred feet wide. The liigh dunes 

 (40-.j0 feel) are reached by gradual ascent after crossing the area 

 devastated of ils trees by the drifting in of the sand. These high 

 dunes are aVirupt on the landward skle, where they encroach on the 

 dense dcciduoas forest behind. This forest seems doomed to extinc- 

 tion, if the past history of these dunes is followed in the dead trees 

 of the wind-swept area. Not many years ago this forest wjus 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 653 



Bome five hundred feet wider than at present, and by the relentless, 

 unrestrained activity of the drifting sand it has been slowly, but 

 surely, engulfed. It is a peculiar scene from the top of this dune : 

 on the land side there is a dense mass of dark-green foliage, beyond 

 which there is the broad expanse of green salt meadows wiih their 

 bays and thoroughfares.* The sand which has formed ihese dunes 

 comes fresh from the great ocean mill, ascends the surface of the 

 dune and falls over its crest into Ihe forest. When a stiff breeze is 

 blowing it skims along like drifting snow, sufficiently strong to 

 lacerate the skin, trimming the tops of the trees as flat as though 

 shorn with shears The writer is of the opinion that the shapes of 

 the ti-ees along our coast is due more to the sand blast than to the 

 direct action of the wind. 



Gifford" describes the formation of these dunes: " If the forests 

 are what cause the dunes, by preventing the west wind from blowing 

 back the sand, how did the forests form ? Single trees here and 

 Ibere, or groups of trees, whieii are clean underneath, so that the 

 west wind sweeps through without serious interruption, do not cause 

 the formation of dunes. In the course of time, however, a thicket 

 forms under these trees. They become covered with grapevines, 

 Virginia creepers and greenbriers. The birds and the wind scat- 

 ter the seeds of many sorts of shrubs and bushes, such as Pruiius 

 marii'imri, sweet gale, Bucr.haris lialiiinfoUa, flc, until a dense 

 forest is formed through which the west wind cannot penetrate, the 

 consequence of which, in the course of time, is a dune, which in 

 turn finally enyulfs and kills the forest that had caused it " The 

 forest which is being destroyed consists of the red cedar, Juniperus 

 virginiana L., holly, Ilex opaca Ait., black gum, Nij-'sa sylnatica 

 Marsh, wild cherry, Prun us seroUna Hhvh., Qaercux li/rata Walt., 

 hackberry, Cellk oceideidalis L. , willow oak, Quercus phellos L., 

 swamp maple, Acer rubrum L., persimmon, Diospyros virginiana 

 L. , pitch pine, Pinuft rigida Mill., red mulberry. Moras rubra T,., 

 while as lianes may be mentioned Parthenocissus ( Ampelopsis) 

 quinquejolia (L. ) Planch., Vitis labrwca L., Vili< (BSliuttlis 

 Michx , Tecoma radicnns (L. ) D. C , which reminds one of the 

 dunes of the seashore of eastern Virginia, where the trumpet 



* A thoriiiio;hfare is a waterway or channel from one bay to another 

 along ilie New Jersey coast. 



'GiPFoKD, Aunuitl liep. tilate Geologist of New Jersey, 18!)9, "Report 

 on Forests," p. aol. 




654 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Oct., 



creeper abounds and Sniilax rotundifoUa L. As the sand blowt< 

 in about I he trees, these lianes are covered up with the trees until 

 the top- of the trees only are exposed. The lianes then take root 

 and spread out in all directions circumferenliallj- a distance of 

 many feet from the tree which, now dead, formerly supjwrted 

 them. The lianes, therefore, began their life-history on the lower 

 level ground and conclude their growth on the surface of the sand 

 dune fifty feet above where they first took root — veritable vegetal 

 Jacks-aud-the-Bean Slalk. This curious biologic feature, never 

 before mentioned, to the knowledge of the writer, in connection with 

 the life-history of a sand dune, is exemplified on all of the higher 

 sand hills at Piermont. 





,* 





"1^ 



l=-^ ■= ~ - °ooo 



—-___=• OoOO 



M K 



r,' 





^T1\U 



^■^^^^ 



- ^-^VoZolp % 







EE DD 



vVay^. 







t^,/ 



000 



■''Hllk 







^'^ 



^\^ 



v-^ 





%^^''k{^l^^\^ 



■i,^\ 



Fig. 5. 

 A A. Znnc o( HihtDrus 7noschcutHS Ij., Panicum virgatutrilj. : UI5. Zouc 

 nC DixtirJilis spicfita (L.) Grociif. iiiHlurc ; CO. Zone ol Diilir/ilin 'Picita 

 (L.) Ciri'cne, less iniiture; DD. Zone of .SVi (iVor/.iV; lurbnct'i L., Sahcor- 

 Ilia liiijeltitii Torr., Spnrtina paieiis (Ait.) Miilil.. Litnoiiium c-irolini- 

 anum (Willi.) Britlon. ; EE. Zone of Spaiiiita iln'eta (Ait.) Roth. 



On the ground in the forest the botanist finds MHchclla repais L., 

 Rhils radicans L. , etc. Crossing the railroad, which runs through 




1902.] NATOEAL SCIENOES OF PHILADELPHIA. 655 



the forest at this place, a strip of higher ground ruus ont some 

 distance upon the meadow. The tension lines are well demarcated 

 here. Juniperus virginiana L. is the only tree which borders 

 directly the sail marsh. A rounded dune occurs on the edge of the 

 marsh. From it a closer pro-pect of the salt marsh is to be had. 

 Juniperus virginiana L., Rhus glabra L. , Myrica cerifera L. , 

 Sassafras sassnfras (L. ) Karst., Ilex opaca Ait., Rhus radicans L., 

 with the climbing Willoughhcea scandens (L. ) Kunlze form the 

 vegetal covering of this eminence. The outer zone of the salt 

 marsh is characterized by the presence of Hibvicus mo-cheutos L. 

 On the marsh proper occurs in several well-marked zones Dis- 

 tichlis maritima (L. ) Greene in the more elevated portions, while 

 Salicornia herbacea L., S. bigelovii Torr., Sjiartlna paien-f (Ait.) 

 Muhl., and Limotiium carolinianum (Wall.) Britton grow in the 

 wetter areas. Along the edge of the thoroughfare* ihrougli which 

 the tidal water circulates is found a pure association of S//artina 

 striata (Ait.) Roth. The accompanying figure (fig. 5) shows the 

 zonal distribution of the salt-marsh plants on Seven-Mile Beach. 

 Near the outer edge of the marsh Ilydrocotyle umbellida L. is 

 found, while on exposed sand slopes Opuntia opuntia (L. ) Coult. 

 is at home with a rose and a willow forming nearby thickets. 



Comparison of the Dunes at Piermont and at Sea Side 



Park. 



The dune formation of the New Jersey coast, as previously men- 

 tioned, reaches its culmination at Piermont, where sand hills forty 

 to fifty feet high are met with. The western slope of the 

 dunes at Piermont are precipitous, while the eastern slope (a 

 gradual incline) grades off into the lower dunes of the dune com- 

 plex. The dunes at Sea Side Park range in elevation from ten to 

 twenty feet, and the eastward or seaward slope is much the 

 steepest. The causes which have brought about this difference are 

 the following: The wave-made embankments on the sandy beaches 

 differ in their form and in the conditions of their construction from 

 ihose which are made up of pebbles.' The sand, owing to the 

 fineness of its grains, is easily blown about by the wind. When 

 ihe tide retires, a broad expanse of this material is left for some 

 hours exposed to the sun. The surface dries, and the gales from 



" Also spelled thorofare. 



' Cf. Shai.ek, Sea and Land, pp. 49-51. 




656 PROLIiEDlNCiS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



the sea sweep the pai tides up the slope until they arrive at the 

 crest wall, where they are caught iu Ihe tangle of beach grasses 

 and other plants, anrl are prolected from the currents of air. 

 When tlie movement of sand is most rapid, it may bury these 

 plants out of siirht, but most of Ihem are tolerant of this covering 

 of sand, and quickly grow upward and make a new entanglement 

 for the moving sand. Such plants are Ammophila arenaria (L.) 

 Link, Primus ma.ritima Wang, and others previously described. 

 In this manner, the crest of the beach grows upward and the lee 

 slope of the sand hill is always the steepest one. The dunes of 

 the New Jersey coast ai'e not so marked as some in other parts of 

 the world (as, for example, at Eccles, in England, where one of 

 these dunes in the last century invaded the village and buried the 

 dwellings and the ])arish church so that even the top of tlie spire 

 was hidden) for the reiu^on that the prevailing winds of New 

 Jersey are from the west ; and the sand swept up from the sea- 

 margin by the ocean .'^tornis and easterly breezes is, to a great 

 extent, carried back by the off-shore winds. Even these dunes 

 would have a precarious existence were it not for the fact that the 

 vegetation, generally (juite luxuriant, holds the .=and in place. The 

 prevalent west winds and the absence of protecting trees account 

 for the character of tne dunes at Sea Side Park, where the frontal 

 dune slopes gradually up from the windward or landward side to 

 the crest of the dune, the leeward or ocean side being quite steep 

 and declivitous. 



At Picrmont, on the contrary, the western or windward slope of 

 the dune is the steepest. Here a forest, formerly five hundred feet 

 wider, is being engulfed by the drifting sand. The sand, carried 

 by eddies of the prevailing western winds, but more especially by 

 the winds of ocean storms, ascends the surface of the dune and 

 falls over its crest into the forest. When a stiff breeze is blowing, 

 the sand skims along like drifting snow sufficicnily strong to decor- 

 ticate trees. The forest, choked with undergrowth composed of 

 climbing plants and shrubs, as previously mentioned, prevents the 

 access of the western breezes that are prevalent and which are 

 inimical to dune upbuilding, and the sand, therefore, moves relent- 

 lessly carried by the eastern winds that now and then blow upon 

 the forest that engendered the dune. The presence of this forest, 

 therefore, explains the peculiarities of the dune formation at Pier- 

 mont, ai contrasted with that at Sea Side Park. 




1902.] natural sciences of philadelphia. 



The Absecon (Atlantic City) Beach Strand. 



657 



Dr. Thomas S. Githeiis has furnished me with the results of 

 some observations upon the flora of Absecon Beach. The coast in 

 the neighborhood of Atlantic City is occupied largely by human 

 habitations, so that the flora has been modified except at several 

 places about two to four miles south of Absecon Inlet. The geog- 

 raphy of the island may be shown by the accompanying diagrams 

 in fig. 6. 



Abeecon Beach 



Pig. 6. 

 The upper figure is an outline map of Absecon Beacli witli tlie eco- 

 logic lines A, B, C, D drawn across it. The lower figure represents 

 cross-sections of the beach along the lines A, B, C, D, and shows the 

 relative elevations along each line. The letters and numerals designate 

 ditferent zonal areas, where the plants designated by similar numerals 

 are referred to the several zones iu the accompanying list, made by Dr. 

 Thomas S. Githens. 



The region, botanically considered, has been divided by Dr. 

 Githens in his notes' as follows : 

 Area I. — Beach. 



Zone (a) — Tide Beach. 



Zone (6) — Second Beach. 



* These notes confirm the observations of the writer, published in the 

 Proceedings of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia for 1900, 

 but the terminology is somewhat different. 



43 




658 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



Area II. — Low Dunes. 

 Area III. — High Dunes. 



Zone («) — Juniper Thickets. 



Zone (b) — Myrica Thickets. 



Zone (c) — Hudsonia Formation (bare places). 



Zone (d) —Ilex Thicket. 



Zone (e) — Border of Marsh. 

 Area IV. — Sand Flats (always damp). 

 Area V. — Marsh. 



Zone (a) — Drier Mai-sh. 



Zone (6) — Boggy Marsh. 



Zone (c)— Tidal Flats. 



Zone (d) — Lakes and Thoroughfares. 



Zone (e) — Thoroughfare Borders. 

 Area VI. — Island. 



Zone (a) — IMarsh Border. 



Zone (b) — Treeless Space. 



Zone (c) — Wood. 



Zone {d) — Back Marsh Border. 

 Area VII. — Made Land. 



It will be observed that the author of Ihe noles confuses botani 

 cal and physiographic features. The classification should be either 

 based on the floral make-up of the region, or be arranged accord- 

 ing to its physiography. Thus, for example, this botanist has 

 juniper thickets and dry marsh and boggy marsh zones. Barring 

 these inadvertencies the classification of areas is a natural one. 

 Tlic first beach, according to Dr. Githens, supports no j)lants except 

 occasionally Cakile edentula (Bigel.) Hook. The outer (Low 

 Dune) is held in place by the character grass ( Ammophlla arenaria 

 (L. ) Link). The outer edge of ti>e dune complex (Second Beach) 

 is occupied by the Atlantic City and Longport Railroad, but in 

 ])lace3 Calcile edenhila (Bigel.) Hook., Ammophila arenaria (L ) 

 Link, Cenchnis tribidoides L. , Salsola kali L. are found. The 

 captured dunes (High Dunes of the classification) are covered 

 with thicket.* of Jiinipenui virginiana L. and Myricn cerifcra L., 

 iulersper.sed with bare spaces on vihich Hudsonia tomentosa Nutt. , 

 as a character plant, grows. Prunus maritima Wang, and P. 

 virginiana Ij. grow in all the sheltered places. The landward 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 659 



slope is characterized by the presence of holly, Ilex opaca Ait., the 

 height of the dune being determined by the height of the protect- 

 ing trees, i.e., twenty-five feet. The island is about two miles 

 long, and is set in the middle of the marsh about half a mile 

 inland from the high dunes. It is covered mainly by pine and 

 oak trees which are quite large on its highest parts. Inside of this 

 marsh island there is a comparatively dry marsh, in which all 

 plants except grasses, rushes and sedges do better than in the 

 larger marsh outside. At the ends of this island in the marsh, 

 and on the landward side, are low-lying sandy plains, low enough to 

 be saturated at high tide with salt w'ater and which support 

 a characteristic growth of Buda and similar succulent species. 

 In the list, which is rather cumbersome, the numbers refer to 

 the areas marked on the map represented in fig. 6, and the 

 lower-case letters of the alphabet refer to the zones into which 

 the several areas are divided. The plants, therefore, in the list 

 occur in the areas and zones designated. A dagger (^f ) signifies 

 that the plant is represented in the herbarium of Dr. Githens. 

 The plants in the list are named according to the sixth edition of 

 Gray's Manual, but for convenience of reference the writer, who 

 has edited the notes of Dr. Githens, has added the names found in 

 Britton's Manual of th^ North United States and Canada. The 

 orders follow the sequence of Engler and Prautl's Die Naturlichen 

 Pflanzenfamilien. The plants not given in the list published in 

 "An Ecological Study of the New Jersey Strand Flora'" are 

 designated hy an asterisk. 



The commingling of the [plants of different zones may be repre- 

 .sented as follows : 



II to la and 16. 



III to II and 16. 



V to IV. 



Ille to IV and V. 



VI to Ve. 

 YId to V. 



List of Species and^Zones Occupied by^Them. 



Vic. Pinus ri(;ida'j\Iill. 



Ilia. Juniperm virginiana L. 



' Proc. Acad. Xai. Sci. Phila., 1900, pp. 661-671. 




660 PROCEKDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



Va. Typha latifolia L. 



Vo. Typha angui^tifolia L. 



Ydf. Ruppia maritima L. 



Yd. Zodera marina L. 



II. Ammophila arundinacea Hast. {Ammophila aren- 



aria (L. ) Link). 



I, II, IVf . Cenchrvs trihuloides L. 



Vaf. Panicum crus-galli L. (Echinochloa crusgalli (L. ) 

 Beaiiv. ). 



Vaf. Panicum proliferum Lam. 



*Vaf. Panioum sanguinale L. {Syntherisma sanguinalis 

 (L.) Nash). 



Vaf. Panicum virgakim L. 



*Vf . Sftaria glauca Beauv. 



V. Spariina cyvosuroides [L.] Willcl. 



Vf. C'are;» straminea Willd. 



Vf . Cyperus mdtallii Torr. [Eddy] . 

 *Vf. Cyperus ovu la ris Ton-. [(Michx. ) Torr.]. 



*Vf . Cyperus speciosus Vahl. 



Vf . Fimbrygtylis spadicea Valil . 



Vf . Scirpus marifiinus L. 



Vf. Scirpus ptmgens Yahl. (^S..americamis Vers.). 



V. Jun<nia biifonius L. 



Vf. Juncus canadensis J. Gay. 



Vf. Jtincus dichotomus Ell. 



Vf . Juncus gerardi Loisel. 



V. Juncus scirpoides Lam. 



Vf. Juncus tentiis Willd. 



Ilia. Commelyna sp. 



*VIc. Oakesia sessilifolia Watson ( Uvularia sessilifolia 

 L.). 



Hid. Polygonatum giganteum Diclr. (P. commutaium 

 (R. andS.) Dietr.). 



*III, Vlf . Smilax glauca Walt. 



III, Vlf. Smilax roiundifolia L. 

 Vaf. Iris versicolor L. 



Vaf. Spiranthes cernua Richaril (Gyrostachys cernua 



(L.) Kuntze). 



Ill 6. 3Iyrica cerifera L. 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHfA. 661 



Vie. Quercus alba L. 



Vic. Quercus falcata Michs. (Q. (Zigiitato (Marsh), Sud- 



■wortla). 

 *VIc. Quercus tinetoria Gray ( Q. velutina Lam. ) . 



Vic. Quercus ilicijolia Wang. {Q. nana (Marsh) Sar- 



gent). 

 *VII. Polygonum acre H. B. K. (^P. j)unetatum Ell.). 



VII. Polygonum incarnatum Waison [Ell.]. 



=^VII. Polygonum persicaria L. 



Illcf. Polygonum ramossissimum Michx. 



*IIIe, IV. Polygonella ai-ticulata Meisn. [L.]. 

 *VII. Bumex aeetosella L. 



*VII. Rumex crispus L.' 



*Vet. Atrip lex patulum L. var. hadata Gmv (^A. hastata 



L.). 

 VII. Chenopodium album L. 



*VIIf. Chenopodium ambrosioides L. 



*VIIf . Chenopodium anthelminthicum Gray. 



Vif . Salicornia ambigua Michx. 



V6f . Salicornia herbacea L. 



V6f. Salicoi'nia mucronata Ji]ge\. {S. Bigelovii Torr.). 



Ila and b. Salsola kali L. 



Vef. Suceda linearis Moq. {Dondia americana (Pers. ). 



Britton). 

 *VII. Amaranthm panieulalus L. (J., hybridus panicu- 



latus (L. ) Uline and Gray). 

 VII. Amaranthwi retrofle.ms 1 ,. 



VII. Mollugo verticillata L. 



Illaj. Arenaria lateriflora L. (^Mcchringia lateriflora (L. ) 



Fenzl.). 

 IVf. Arenaria pejjloides 1j. {Ammodenia peploides (L. ) 



Rupr. ). 

 IVf. Buda marina Dumont {Tissa marina (L.) Brit- 



ton). 

 IV. Sagina decumbens Torr. and Gray. 



*IIIdt- Silene stellata Ait. 



VII. Portulaca oleracea L. 



*VIcf. Aquilegia canadensis L. 



Vat. Bannnculus cymbalaria Pursh. {Oxygraphis eym- 



balaria (Pursh.) Prantl). 




662 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Oct., 



Jf nif. Sassafras officinalis Nees {S. sassafras (L. ) Karst). 



I, II. Cakile americana Nutl. ( C. edentula (Bigel. ) 



Hook.). 



*VIIf. Cardamine hirsuta L. 



Ilia, Illdf. Geum album Gmel. (C. canadense J&cq.). 



*III6. Pyriis arbutifolia L. f. (Aronia arbutifolia (L. ) 

 Ell. ) 



III. Prunus maritima Wang. 



*III. Prunus serotinu Ehrh. 



*III. Prunus virginiana L, 



Hie, Vlrff. Rosa Carolina L. 



VI6f. Rubus canadensis L. 



*VIc. Amphicarpma monoica 2init. {Falcata comosa (Li.) 

 Kuntze). 



Vlaf . Cassia chamacrista L. 



*VIaf . Cassia niclitans L. 



*VIct. Dehmodlum canadense D. C. {Meibomia canescena 

 (L. ) Kuntze). 



Vic. Desmodium panietilatum D. C {Meibomia panicu- 

 lata (L. ) Kuntze). 



Ill, Vlf. Strop hosty les angulnsa 'Ell. (/S. /lefoo/a (L. )Britton). 



*IV. Trifoliuin arvense L. 



*VII. TrifoUum hijbridum L. 



*VII. Geranium earolinianum L. 



Illdf. Geranium roberlianum L. 



*Vaf. Linum virginianum L. 



*Vaf . Pohjgala cruciata L. 



II, IIIc. Euphorbia polygonifolla L. 

 Illef. Rhus copallinu L. 



Illa, VI. Rhus radicaiis L. 



IIW. Ilex opaca Ait. 



*VId. Celastrus scandens L. 



*VIc. Euonymus amerieanus I... 



TIT, Vlf. Ampelnpsis quinquefolia Miciix.. i^Parthenocissus 

 qninquffolin (L. ) I'lancli.). 



III, Vitis (estivalis Mich.K. 

 III. Vilij< labrui/ca L. 

 VWf. //i6i-fciw mofcheulos L. 



VIrft- Koslelehhja virginica [L.] Gmy. 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 663 



Vo. Hypericum mutiluin L. 



*IIIcf. Helianthemum canadense [L.] Michx. 



Illcf. Sudsonia tomentosa Nutt. 



Ule. Lechea minor var. marititna Gray {Lechea mari- 



tima Leggett). 



VI6. Opuntia vulgaris Mill. ( Opuntia opuntia (L. ) 



Coult.). 



*IV. Ludivigia palustris Ell. (^Isnardia palustris L. ) . 



Vllf. (Enothera biennis L. 



Vaf. (Eaothera pumila L. {Kneiffia pumila (L. ) 

 Spach.). 



Vf. Discopleura capillacea D. C. {Ptilimnium eapilla- 

 cettm (Michx. ) Hollick). 



IJld. Osmorrhiza sp. 



Vie. Chimaphila maeulata [L.] Pursh. 



*VIe. Gaultheria procumbens L. 



Illf. Vaecinium corymbosum L. 



Vof. Statice limonium L. {lAmonium carolinianum 

 (Walt.) Briltoa). 



Ilia, III6. Trientalis americana Pureh. 



Vaf. Samnlus vulerandi L. (S. jioribundus H. B. K. ). 



Va. Sabbatia stellaris Pursh. 



*VII. Apocynum eannabinum L. 



*VI6. AsrAepias tuberosa L. 



Illef . Ascli-pias incarnata L. 



Illef. Calystegia sepium L. (^Convolvulris sepium L. ). 



Illef . Cuscida gronovii Willd. 



*VII. Ipomoea purpurea Jja.Ta. [(L. )Roth]. 



Ille. Verbena hastata L. 



*IIIef . Lycopus virginicus L. 



Illef. Monarda punctata L. 



Ille. Teucrium canadense L. 



*VII. Trichostema dichotomus L. 



VII. Datura sp. 



*VIIf. Solanum dulcamara L. 



Vllf. Solanum nigrum L. 



Vaf. Gerardia maritima Eof. 



Vof. Gerardia purpurea L. 



Hie, Vaf. I/inaria canadensis [L.] Diimont. 




664 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 665 



*VIcf. Solidago puberula Nutt. 



Vaf . Solidago sempervirens L. 



Vaf. Solidago tenuifoHa Pursb. (EutJiamia caroliniana 



(L. ) Greene). 

 *VII. Sonchus oleraeeus L. 



Vllf . Xanthium strumarium L. 



Additional List of New Jersey Strand Plants. 



The data for the following list was obtained from two sources : 

 (1) The collections made by the writer since 1900 on the New 

 Jersey coast, and (2) the names on the sheets in the herbarium of 

 the late J. Bernard Brintou, M.D., now at Biological Hall, Uni- 

 versity of Pennsylvania. Those collected by the writer are 

 unmarked, while those plants collected by Dr. Brintou are marked 

 by an asterisk. The orders are arranged according to the system 

 of Engler and Prautl. 



Fungi. 



Fuligo (^Ihali'um) septica Gmel. Sea Side Park. 

 Qymnosporangium Ellisii Berk, (on white cedar). South Sea 



Side Park. 

 Thelephora terrestris Fr. Sea Side Park. 

 Clitocybe trulikata Ellis. Sea Side Park. 

 Polyporus versicolor Fr. South Sea Side Park. 

 AstrcBus stellatus. Sea Side Park. 

 Lycoperdon turneri E. and E. Sea Side Park. 



Musci. 

 Polytrichum commune L. Island Beach Life Saving Station. 



OpHIOGLOS8ACE.ffi. 



^•Botrychium disseclum Spreng. Ocean Beach. 

 *Bolrychium ohliquum Muhl. (5. lunarioides var. obliquum,). 

 Ocean Beach, Cape May. 



Lycopodiace^e. 

 Jjycopodixim carolinianum L. Island Beach Life Saving Station. 




666 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct. , 



CONIFEK^. 



Chamcecyparis thyoides (L. ) B. S. P. (C spharoidea Spach.). 

 Island Beach Life Saving Station. 



Typhace.^:. 



■^■•Typha angitstifolia L. Cape May. 



Geaminejb. 



*Andropogon furoat'us Mulil. Anglesea. 

 *Elymus canadensis L. Anglesea. 

 *PanuM>ii dichotomum L. Ocean Beach. 



Cyperace^. 



* Carex muhlenbergii Schk. Anglesea. 



*Garex festucacea Willd. (C straminea vur. hrevior Dewey). 

 Avalon. 



*Cyperus Jiliculmis Vahl. Atlantic City. 



*Cyperus cylindrieus (Ell. ) Britton ( G. Torreyi Britton). Angle- 

 sea. 



^Eleochark pahuitris glaucescens (Willd.) A. Gray. Anglesea. 



*Eleocharis rostellata Ton-. Cape May. 

 Scirpm sylvaiicus L. 



*StenophyUm capillaris (L. ) Britton {FimbrystylU capillars A. 

 Gray). Anglesea. 



Lemnace^s:. 



Lemna minor Ij. Wildwood. 



Iridace.*:. 



Tf-is versicolor L. Sea Side Park. 



Orchidace.*;. 



Pogonia ophioglossoides (L. ) Ker. Sea Side Park. 



FAGACE.a:. 



Quercus alba L. ^Yild^vood. 



Ulmaceje. 

 Celtis occidentalis L. Piermout. 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 667 



MORACE^. 



Morus rubra L. Piermont. 



Broussonetia papyrifera (L. ) Vent. Sea Side Park, Piermont. 



POLYGONACE^. 



*Rumex pafientia L. Avalon. 

 ^Rumex verlicillatus L. 



Phytolaccace^. 

 Phytolacca decandra L. Piermont. 



AlZOACEiE. 



Mollugo verticillata L. Sea Side Park, Piermont. 



PoRTULACACEiE. 



Portulaca oleraeea L. Stone Harbor. 



Crucifer^. 

 Lepidium virginieum L. Sea Side Park. 



RoSACEiE. 



*Oeum canadense Jacq. ( G. album Gmel. ). 

 Pynis mahis L. Sea Side Park (planted). 

 *Rubus villosus Ait. Anglesea. 



LEGUMINOSiE. 



*Bradburya virginiana (L. ) Kuntze ( Ceiitrosenia virginianum 

 Benth. ). Anglesea — the only station in New Jersey. 

 Gleditschia triacantlios L. Sea Side Park. 



Stropho4yles umbtllata (Muhl.) Britton (S. peduncularis Ell.). 

 Sea Side Park. 



iLICACEiE. 



Ilex glabra (L. ) A. Gray. Sea Side Park. 



ACERACE.^;. 



Acer saccharinum L. {Acer dasycarjnim Ehrb. ). Sea Side Park 

 (planted). 




6<i8 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



HvPERICACEiE. 



-Hypericum, adpressum Bart. Cape May. 



ClSTACE^. 



'^Lechea racemulosa Michx. Barnegat. 



Cactace.e. 



Opuntin TOijfom ]\Iill. (O. opuntia (Jj.) Coult. ). Sea Side 

 Park, Pierraont. 



Onageace^. 



Onagra biennis (L. ) Scop. {CEaothera biennis L. ). South 

 Sea Side Park. 



ERICACE.E. 



Azalea viscosa L. South Sea Side Park. 

 *Chimaphila maciilata (L. ) Pursh. Anglesea. 

 Clethra alnifolia L. South Sea Side Park. 

 Gayhisaaeia resinosa [(Ait.)] T. & G. 



CUSCUTACE/E. 



Ciiseuta Gronovii Willd. Sea Side Park. 

 Labiate. 



*K(ellia verticelMa (Michx.) Kuntze {Pycnanthemurn Torryei 

 Benth. ). Ocean Beach. 

 Mentha spicata L. {Mentha viridls L. ). South Sea Side Park. 



SOLANACE.E. 



*Solanum. nigrum L. Atlantic City. 



SCROPHI'LARIACE.E. 



*Gerardia tenuifolia Vahl. Cape Ann, Mass. 

 Linaria canadensis (L. ) Dumont. Sea Side Park. 



BlGNONIACE.E. 



Tecoma radicans (L. ) D. C. Piermont. 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 669 



RUBIACE/E. 



'^Cephalanthus occidentalis L. Anglesea. 



* Galium pilosum Ait. Anglesea. 



* Galium trifidum L. Cape May. 

 Mitchella repens L. Wildwood. 



Composite. 



^Aster multijloi-us Ail. Anglesea. 



* Aster nova belgii L. var. litoreus A. Gray. Avalon. 



* Aster patens L. Ocean Beach. 

 *Aster sureulosus Michx. Ocean Beach. 



^Dcellinge.ria umbellata (Mill.) Nees. (Aster umbellatus Mill.). 

 Ocean Beach. 



Eupatorium perfoliatum L. South Sea Side Park. 



Euthamia caroliniana (L. ) Greene {Solidago tenuifolius Pursh. ). 

 Sea Side Park. 



Helenkim autumnale L. Sea Side Park. 



Helianthns sp. Sea Side Park. 

 ■^Hleraeium scabrum Michx. Anglesea. 



Lactuoa scariola L. South Sea Side Park. 

 ^Radbeckla hirta L. Anglesea. 



Solidago puberula Nutt. South Sea Side Park. 




670 PROCEEDINGS OF TEE ACADEMY OF [Oot., 



A COLLECTION OF BIRDS FROM SUMATRA, OBTAINED BY ALFRED C 

 HARBISON, JR., AND DR. H. M. HILLER. 



BY WITMER STONE. 



The present paper is based upou a collection of bird skins col- 

 lected on the Island of Sumatra by ]\[r. Alfred C. Harrison, Jr., 

 and Dr. H. M. Hill^r, and presented by them to the Academy of 

 Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. The collection, representing 138 

 species, is the most extensive ever brought to America from this 

 island and adds materially to our knowledge of the distribulion and 

 relationship of a number of species. 



Collecting was carried on at three different points: (1) At Batu 

 Sangkar, Tanah Datar, in the highlands east of Padang, at from 

 1,500 to 3,000 feel elevation, during August and September, 

 1901; (2) at Goenong Soegi, in the Lampong district of south- 

 eastern Sumatra, at an elevation of less than ftOO feet, during Octo- 

 ber and November, I'JOl, and (3) in the vicinity of Padang. No 

 further data accompanies the specimens, but the collectors infonn 

 me that the apparent presence of a species exclusively at one 

 locality, as shown by the specimens, does not necessarily indicate 

 its absence from another, as species well represented in the Padang 

 collection were in some instances pas.seil by in Lampong. In conse- 

 quence of this the fact that of 94 species obtained in Lampong and 

 59 in Padang, only 33 were secured in both places loses mucn of its 

 significance. Moreover, upon comparing the published lists of Su- 

 matra birds we find that the Marquis of Tweeddale's report, based 

 upon a Lampong collection (/6m 1877), contains 81 species not 

 found in the present series, wliile our material includes 35 not men- 

 tioned by Tweeddale. 



While information is still inadequate to form generalizations 

 upon the details of the distribution of birds on the fsland, it would 

 seem that the majority of the species range from the lower Jlalay 

 peninsula throughout Sumatra and many into Java without mate- 

 rial differentiation ; and a comparison of the combined lists from 

 Deli, in the northwestern oxlrcmitv of the island, with those of 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 671 



Lampong, in the southeastern comer, show that the niajority'of the 

 species occur at both points. In fact, the high mountains of the 

 south-central part of Sumatra seem to be the only region where a 

 conspicuously different avifauna exists. The materials are, how- 

 ever, far too limited to warrant any positive statements on the 

 matter. 



In the following list the material in collection of the Academy 

 has been used for comparison, and also several skins loaned by 

 the U. S. National Museum, through Dr. C. W. Richmond, for 

 which the author expresses his thanks. All references given below 

 have been verified except a few which are marked with an asterisk. 



Asaroornis scatalata (S. Miill.). 



Anas scutulata S. Miiller, Verh. Land en Volkenk., p. 159, 1839^i4. 

 Java. 



Two specimens from Ijampong have the head, rump and breast 

 white, and white feathers in the wing. The breast has also a 

 strong rusty suffusion and some black feathers scattered here and 

 there. 



Bubulcua ooromandus (Bodd.). 



Cancroma coromanda Boddaert, Tabl. PI. Enl., p. 54, 1783. 



Three specimens from the highlands of Padang. 



Amaurornis phoenioura (Forster). 



Rallus phcenicurus Forster, Zool. Ind., p. 19, PI. IX, 1781. Ceylon. 

 One example from the Padang highlands. 



Aotitis hypoleuoa (Linn.). 



Tringa hypoleucon, LiuniEus, Syst. Nat., X, p. 149, 1758. 



Four specimens from Lampong. 



Charadrius dominious fulvus (Gm). 



Charadrius fulvus Gmelin, Syst. Nat., I, p. 687, 1788. Tahiti. 

 Four specimens from the highlands of Padang. 



Caloperdix ooulea sumatrana (Grant). 



Oaloperdix sumatrana Grant. Bull. Brit. Ora. Chib, No. U (Nov. 1, 

 189:3), Ibis, 1893, p. 118. Sumatra and Java. 



Two adults and two downy young from the highlands of Padang. 



Argusianua argus (Linn.). 



Phasianus argus Linnsus, Syst. Nat. (XII), I, p. 272. 1766. Tar- 

 tary. 



One male from Lampong. 




672 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct. 



Gallns gallus (Linn ). 



Phaaiamis gallus Linnfeus, Syst. Nat. (X), p. 158, 1758. India Ori- 

 entale. 



One from Lampong and another from the Padang highlands. 



Carpophaga aenea (Linn.). 



Columba cenea Linntieus, Syst. Nat. (XII), I, p. 283, 1766. Moluccas. 

 One specimen, Lampoug. 



Treron nlpalensis (Hodgs.). 



Toria Nipalensis Hodgson, Asiat. Res. XIX, p. 164, PI. IX, 1836. 

 Nepal. 



Two examples from the Padang highlands. 



Osmotreron vernans (Linn.). 



Columba vernans Linnaeus, Mantissa, p. 526, 1771. Pliilippines. 



One from Padang and four from the highlands to the east. 



Treron griseicapilla Schleg., N. T. D., I, p. 7'0 (1863), from 

 Sumatra, is separated mainly on accoimt of the grajTiess of the 

 head, but this seems to be a phase of plumage probably due to age. 



Osmotreron olax (Temm.). 



Columba olax Temmincls, PI. Col., 241, 18-23. Sumatra. 

 Five specimens from Lampong. 



Osmotreron fulvlooUis (Wagl.). 



Columba fuIeicolUs Wagler, Syst. Av. Columba, Species 8, 1827. 

 Pliilip])ines. 



One male from Lampong. 



Turtnr tigrinns (Temm.) 



Columba tiyrina Teniniinck and Knip Pigeons, I, PI. 43, 1808-11. 

 China and Soutli Sea Islands. 



Two specimens from Lampong and one from the Padang high- 

 lands. 



Tnrtnr tnrtur (Linn.). 



Columba turtur Linnfeus, Syst. Nat. (X), 165, 1758. 

 One specimen from Psulang, very litrlit in color; no doubt a 

 domesticated bird. 



Hiorohieraz fringiUarins (Drapiez). 



Drapiez, Diet. Class. d'Hist. Nat., VI, p. 412, PI. V, 1824* 



Three specimens from Padang and two from the adjacent high- 

 lands. 




1902.] NATURAL SCIEKCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 67-3 



£lanii8 hypoleucus Gould. 



Elanua hypoleucm Gould, P. Z. S , 1859, p. 127. Celebes. 

 Two .specimen.* from the highlands of Padang are probably refer- 

 able to this species. The original descriptioa gives the uuder-wiag 

 coverts as pure vhite, l)ut in these examples the ends of the longest 

 of these feathers near the edge of the wing are clouded with slaty 

 black. The wing measurements are : 



Ketupa ketupa (Horsf.). 



Strix ketupa Horsfield, Traus. Linn. See, XIII, p. 141, 1831. Java. 

 One example from I'adang and two from Lampong. 



Huhua orieutalls sumatrana (Raffl.). 



Strix Kumati-ana Ralfles, Trans. Linn. See, XIII, p. 279, 1822. 

 Sumaira. 



Two specimens from the highlands of Padang. 



Raffles described a young bird, but both Schlegel and Hartert 

 consider the Sumatra form distinct from H. orientalis Horsf. of 

 Java, and this name must therefore be adopted. 



Psittinus incertus (Shaw). 



Psittacus incertus Sbaw, Nat. Misc., PI. 760, 1790. Cage speci- 

 men, supposed to have come from India. 



Four examples from Lampong. 



Lorioulus galgulus (Linn.). 



Fsittac'is (jalgulus Linnajus, Syst. Nat., I (XII ed.), p. 150, 1766. 

 India. 



Two from Padang and one each from the highlands and from 

 Lampong. 



Falaeornis longioauda (Bodd.). 



Psittacus longicaudus Boddaert, Tabl. PI. Enl., p. 53, 1783. Ma- 

 lacca. 



Four specimens from Lampong. 



Eurystomus calonyz " Hodgs.," Sharpe. 



Coracius calonys " Hodgs.," Sharpe, P. Z. S., 1890, p. 551. Hima- 

 layan Terai. 



Three specimens from Padang and one from Lampong district. 

 These birds seem in some respects mtermedlate between the figures 

 given on PI. II, Vol. XVII of the Catalogue of Birds, representing 

 E. orientalis and E. calonyx, but are closer to the latter. None 

 of them have the terminal part of the tail plain black as shown in 

 the figure of orientalis, but, on the contrary, the outer webs are 

 48 




674 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



Strongly shaded with pur}ilish-blue almost to their tip;'. At the 

 base is an area of greenish-blue of greater or less extent, some- 

 times suffusing the inner web nearly to the tip, and in other exam- 

 ples almost entirely concealed at the extreme base of the feather. 

 Compared with other material before me, these specimens agree well 

 with one from Siam, but differ markedly from a Philippine speci- 

 men in the much smaller bill and in color pattern, the latter 

 matching Sharpe's figure of orimtalis exactly. Sharpe credits 

 both forms to Borneo, calonyx being a winter visitor, and it is pos- 

 sible this is also the case in Sumatra. 



Pelargopsis capensis (Linn.). 



Alcedo capensis Linnajus, Syst. Nat. (XII), 1766, p. 180. "Cape of 

 Good Hope " prob.=Java. 

 Four specimens from Lampong. 



The unfortunate complication of names which exists in this group 

 has given rise to a great diversity of treatment by different authors. 

 The facts in case are briefly as follows: Linnreus (1758) gave the 

 name capemis to a kingfisher described by Brisson from the Cape 

 of Good Hope, but which we now know must have come from the 



Malay region. 



Boddaert (1783) proposed the name javana for the bird figured 

 by Daubenton (PI. Enl., 757) a.s from Java, but which we now 

 know is the Boruean species. 



Gmeliu (1788) based a name leucoeephala on the .same plate. 



Pearson (1841) described a species gurial from Bengal. 



In the light of our pre.-eut knowledge it is possible to fix the 

 name irti-ana upon the bird from Borneo (cf. Hartert, Nov. Zool., 

 IX, p. 202), and the other two names upon races of a closely 

 allied group found from India to Java. The name gurial with a 

 definite" type locality is easily disposed of, which leaves capeiuU 

 Linn, for one of the remaining races. 



Sharpe (1870) was the first to designate these by name, pro- 

 jKJsing florc-nana for the bird from Flores, burmanica for the 

 Burmah form, and malaecensk for that of the Malay peninsula. 

 At the same time he slates that he considers Brisson's description, 

 upon which Liun.xus' name capensU was mainly based, to apply 

 to the Javan bird, but that Daubenton' s plate, al.-o quoted by 

 Linnifius, represents his floredana. Subsequently ( Cat lids. Brit. 

 Jifm., XVll, p. 10(5) he considers Daubcntou's plate to have been 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. fi75 



based upon Brisson, which seems to fix capensis more firmly thau 

 ever upon the Javan bird. Sharpe did not adopt the name capen- 

 sis solely because of the incongruity, and so proposed the name 

 fraseri for it (1870). The adoption of capensis is, I think, 

 inevitable. Hartert (Nov. ZooL; IX, p. 202) claims that all the 

 blue and green-backed species of Pelargopsi.s should be treated as 

 subspecies of one widely spread group, which plan seems to sim- 

 plify the matter materially, though the name Pelargopsis capeiisis 

 javana for a Borncan bird will not meet with much favor from 

 those who still believe in the propriety of ignoring names which 

 are geographically misleading. 



Alcedo meninting Horsf. 



Alcedo meninting Ilorsfiekl, Trans. Linn. Soc, XIII, p. 173, 1821. 

 Java. 



Two male.*^ from Lampong and a female from the Padang high- 

 lands. 



Aloedo enryzonia Temm. 



Alcedo euryzonia Temminck, Plancli. Col., text to livr. 86, 1830. 

 One male from Padang. 



Ceyx rufidorsa Strickl. 



Ceyx rufidorsa Strickland, P. Z. S., 1846, p. 99. Malacca. 



One example from Lampong. 



Sharpe renames this bird euerythra (^ Cat. Birds, XVII, 

 p. 179) on the ground that Strickland's specimen is intermediate 

 between this and iridacUjla. 



Caroineutes pulohellns (Horsf.). 



Dacelo pulchella Horsfield, Trans. Linn. Soc, XIII, p. 175, 1821. 

 Java. 



' ' Five males and three females, representing all the localities. 



Halcyon conoreta (Temm.). 



Dacelo concreta Temminck, PI. Col., IV, PI. 346, 1835. 



Male and female from the highlands of Padang. 



Halcyon ohloris (Bodd.). 



Alcedo chloris Boddaert, Tabl. PI. Enl., p. 49, 1783. 



Five specimens from the Padang highlands. One of these 



(No. 38,928, Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila.) has the black on the ear 



coverts and collar replaced almost entirely by green, while the 



wings are brighter blue. This would seem to be the subspecies 




676 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



armstrongi Sharpe {Cat. Birds Brit. Miis., XVII, p. ^^77), but it 

 is unlikely that two forms would occur together unless one was a 

 migrant, and it is possible that the peculiarities shown by this 

 specimen may have something to do with season or age. 



Buoeros rhinoceros Liu'i- , ,. 



Buceros rUnoceros Linua^us, Syst. Nat, (X). I, p. 104, 1 -oS. ludu. 



One male from the highlands of Padang. 



Anthracoceros oonvexus iTemm.). ^ 



Buetros convexus Temminck, PI. Col., PL 5^0. I'*- 

 Five specimens fron. Lampong and one from the Padang high- 



^^ One of the males has the casque laterally swoUe.i anteriorly to a 



width of nearly two inches, so that it overhangs the b.U on either 



side. 



Anthracooeros malayanus (Raffl). 



Buceros malayanus Raffl., Trans. Linn. Soc, Mil. l'- ^9~, 1832. 

 Malacca. 

 One male from Lampong. 



Hhvtidooeros undulatus (Shaw). » ,„,, u . :„ 



' Buceros uuaulatus Shaw, Gen. Zool., VIII. p. ^6. 1811. Batavia. 

 One specimen from Lampong .vhich has the base of the bill only 



slightly wrinkled, but wilh the black throat bar present; wmg 



measures 19 inches. 



Xerops sumatranus Raffl- . -q„, 



Merops sumatranns Raffles, Trans. Linn. Soc, MH, I-- ->•*• i»^'- 

 Sumatra. 

 One young bird from Padang. 



""l^fS>^ Li„n.us. syst. Xa,. (XIII cU., I, ... 1«3, 1787. 

 Philippines. 

 Three examples from Padang and one from Lampong. 

 There seems to be considerable variation in the amount of blue 

 above. No. 38,8.^2 being quite blue on the crown and w.th scat- 

 tered'blue feathers on the back. 



Aloemerops amiote (Temm.). ,„,„„, 



iferops amieta Temminck, I'l. Col., IV., PI. 310, 182J. 

 Four specimens from the Padang highlands and one from Lam- 

 pong No 38 918 is molting, probably from the Juvenal plumage. 




1902.] XATUKAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. H77 



and shows the new bright-colored fealhere comiiig in on the throat. 

 The black bands on the end of tlie tail are not well defined and 

 the belly i.? buff. 



My frieud, Dr. C. W. Richmond, has pointed out to me that the 

 name Nyctiornu usually applied to lliis genus is antedated bv 

 Nydornis Xitzsch ( Ptenjhxjraphiw Avium Halle, 1833, p. 21 = 

 Nydiblus We\\\. ) , consequently we must adopt Geoffrey's name as 

 above. 



Caprimulgus affinis Horsf. 



Ciiprimulgus affinis Ilorsflekl, Trans. Linii. Soc, Xtll, p. 143, 1821. 

 Java. 



Oue specimen from Padang. 



Maoropteryx oomata (Temm.). 



Oi/pseUis comatus Teraminck, PI. Col., PI. 268, 1834. Sumatra. 

 Four specimens from Lampong. 



Maoropteryx longipennls (Rafin.). 



Hirundo longipennis Rafinesque, Bull. Soc. Philom., Ill, p. 153, 

 1804.* 



Three examples from Padang. 



Pjrrotrogon duvauoeli (Temm.). 



Trogon duvaucdi Temminck, PI. Col., 291, 18ii4. 

 Three specimens from Lampong. 



Pyrotrogon diardi negleotus Forbes and Robinson. 



Troqoii diardii neglectus Forbes and Robinson, Biill. -Liverpool 

 Museum, II, p. 3'l (1899). 



One example from Lampong. Though I have been unable to 

 oxjnsult the above refeience I follow Hartert in adopting this name 

 for the Siimatran bird. 



Snrnioulus lugubris (Horsf.). 



Cucidus lugubris HorsfieUl, Trans. Linn. Soc, XIII, p. 179, 18J1. 

 Java. 



Two specimens from Lampong, which have the tail near! 3' square. 



Hierocoooyx fugax (Horsf. K 



C'uculus fugax Horstield, Trans. Linn. Soc, XIII. p. 178, 18il. Java. 

 One specimen from the highlands of Padang. 

 Cnonlus intermedius Vahl. 



Caculus intermedius Vahl, Skriv. af Xatur. Selsk., IV, 58, 1797. 

 Tranquebaria. 



Three specimens from Lampong. 



The synonymy of this species as given in the British Museum 




678 PROCEEDINGS OF TdE ACADEMY OF [Oct. 



Gataloque of Birds, Vol. XIX, is very extensive, aud it is prob- 

 able that several forms are coufused, but I have not the malerial 

 at hand to warrant the consideration of this point. 



Chaloococcyx xanthorhynclius (Horsf.). 



C'uculas xanthorhynchua Horsfleld, Trans. Linn. Soc, XLII, p. 179. 

 isal. Java. 

 One adult male from Lampoug. 



Caoomantis merulinus (Scop.). 



Cuculm merulinua Scopoli, Del. Flor. ct Faun. Insubr., II, \>. 89. 

 17S6. India. 

 One immature specimen from Padang and another from Lam- 

 poug, the latter beiug much more rufous above. It is probable 

 that several forms are merged under this species in the Bnluh 

 Museum Catalogue which should be entitled to recognition. 



Centropns javanioas (Dum.). 



Ceiiiroptis java/ricus BamonX, Dkt. Sci. Nat., XI, p. 144, 1S18.* 



One example from the highlands of Padang. 



Centropus sinensis (Steph.). 



Polophilus sinensis Stephens, Gen. Zool., IX, p. 51, 181-'). Cliina. 

 Three specimens from Lampong and one from the highlands of 

 Padang. 



Zanolostomns javanicus (Horsf.). 



Phcenicophauit Javanicus Horsfleld, Trans. Linn. Soc, XIII. p. 178. 

 182i: Java. 

 One example from Lampong. 



Ehinortta ohlorophaea (Kaffl.). 



Curttlus Morophxus Raffles, Tran,*. Linn. Soc. XIII, p. 288, 1822. 

 SHraatra. 

 Two male specimens from Padang, one from the highlaud.s and 

 one from near the coast, and a female specimen from Lanipoag. 



Rhopodytes elongatus iS. MiiU.). 



Pha:nicophnvn elongatus S. Mull., Tijdsclir. Nat. (iescli., p. 342, 

 18 i5. Sumatra. 

 Four specimens from the highlands >f Padaug, four from lh.> 

 coiist and one from Lampong. 



tJroooocyx erythrognathns (Hani.). 



Phitnieophxus trylhrognathu* Ilarllaub, Verz. >Ius. Breni., 1844. 

 p. 95.* 

 One example from the highland.' of Padang aii<l two fnmi 



liampong. 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 67^ 



Calorhamphus hayi (J. E. Gray). 



Bueco hayi 3. E. Gray, Zool. Misc., p. 33, 1832. Molucca. 

 Four examples from Padang and one from Lainpong. 



Chotorhea chrysopogon (Temm.). 



Bucco chrysopogoii Temm,, PI. Col., Ill, 1834, p. 285. 



Ten specimens from the highlands of Padang. 



Cyanops oorti (S. Muller). 



Bucco oorti S. Miill., Tijdschr., Nat. Gesch., II, p. 341, PI. 8, fig. 4, 

 1835. Sumatra. 



Male and female from the highlands of Padang. 



Cyanops mystaoophanes (Temm.). 



Bucco mi/slacophanesTeuxm.. PI. Col., Ill, p. 315, 1834. 

 ', One young individual from Lainpong. 



Mesobnooo dnvauceli (Less.). 



Bucco duvauceli Less., Traite, p. 164, 1831. Sumatra. 



Two from the highlands of Padang and one from Lampong. 



Xantholsema hsemacephala (Miill.). 



Bucco hcemaceplialus P. L. S., Muller, Syst. Nat. Anhang, p. 88, 

 177(5. Philippines. 



One specimen from Padang and two from the highlands of the 

 same province. 



Geoinns pnniceus observandus Uart. 



Gecinua puniceus observandus Hartert, Nov. Zool., Ill, p. 543, 1896. 



Sumatra. 



One specimen from Lampong. 



Chiysophlegma mentale humii (Hargitt). 



Ohrysophlegma humii Hargitt, Ibis, 1889, p. 231. jNIalacca. * 

 Three males from the highlands of Padang and three females 

 from Lampong. 



Chiysophlegma miniatum malaooense (Lath.). 



J'ieus malaccensis Latham, Ind. Orn., I, p. 241, 1790. Malacca. 

 One example from the highlands of Padang. 



Tungipious moluooensis (Gm.). 



Picus moluccensis Gmeliu, Syst. Nat., I, p. 439, 1788. Moluccas. 

 Three specimens from Lampong and one from the Padang 

 highlands. 




680 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



Meiglyptes grammithorax (Mahl.). 



Phmopicns grammithorax Mahlberb, Picidas, II, p. 13, PI. XLVIII, 

 figs. 4 and 5, 18t>2. Malay Peninsula and Sunda Islands. 



Two examples from Lampong. 



Ueiglyptes tukki (Less.). 



Piais tukki Lesson, Rev. Zool., 1839, p. 167. Sumatra. 



Two specimens from Lampong. 



Mioropternus brachyurus (VleiU.). 



li<-us hnic/ii/iiriis Vieillot, Nov, Diet, d'llist. Nat., XXVI, p. 10?., 

 1818. Java. 



One example from the highlands of Padaug. In the Catalogue 

 of Birds Mr. Salvadori makes this a subspecies of M. phceoceps 

 Blyth, published in 1845! 



Tiga javanensis (I.jung). 



Pinisjacdnoisis Ljung, Mem. Ac. Roy. Slockh., 1797, p. 134. Jav». 

 Four specimens from the highlands of Padang. 



Xylolepes validus (Temm.). 



Picus validus Temm., PI. Col., IV, 378 J', 402 ^ , 1835. 



Two young birds from Lampong. 



Thriponax javanensis (Horsf.). 



Pirus javanenna Ilorsfield, Trans. Linn. Soc, XIII, p 175, 1821. 

 .Tava. 



Three from Lampong. 



CalyptomEena viridis Ralll. 



Calyptonueiui viridis Raffles, Trans. Linn. Soc, XIII, p. 295, 1822. 

 Sumatra. 



Four specimens from Lampong. 



Enrylaimus javanious Uorsf. 



Hurylaimus javanious Ilorsfield, Trans. Linn. Soc, XIII, p. 170, 

 1821. Java. 



One specimen from Lampong. 



Corydon snmatranns (Rafll.). 



Coraeias sumatranus Raffles, Trans. Linn. Soc, XIII, p. 303, 1822. 

 Sumatra. 



' Seven specimens from Lampong. 



Cymborhynchns macrorhynchos lemnisoatns RaOI. 



Eurylaimus Umuiacatut Raffles, Trans. Linn. Soc, XIII, p. 296, 

 182:i. Sumatra. 



Seven specimens rrprp.epnling all throe localitins. 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. H81 



Encichla boschi (MiiU.'and Schl.). 



Pitta boschii Miiller and Scblegel, Verb. Zool., Pitta, p. 10, t. 1, 

 1839-1844. Sumatra. 



Three males and a female from Lampong. 



Sharpe's description of this bird in Vol. XIV of the Catalogue 

 of Birds, p. 447, fails 1o mention the bars of black on the breast. 

 As a matter of fact, each feather is banded with black, orange 

 and purple, always in this order, there being several bands of 

 each, though the orange bauds are obsolete toward the base of some 

 feathers. 



Hirundo rustioa ^tturalis (Scop.). 



Hiriindo guUuralis Scoiioli, Del Flor et Faun Insubr., II, p. 9l), 1786. 



Three specimens from Lampong. 



Hirundo javanioa Spanm. 



Hirundo javanica ?)X>9.Yr'ma.n, Mus. Carls., II, PI. 100, 1789. Java. 

 One from the Padang highlands and one from Lampong. 



Terpsiphone affinis ("Hay," Blyth). 



Tchitrea affinis "Hay." Bl)nb, .lour. As. Soc. Bengal, XV, p. 393. 

 Malay Peninsula. 



Two adults from Lampong. 



Terpsiphone inoei (Gould). 



Muscipeta incei Goukl, Birds of Asia, Pt. 4. Nov., 1852, 

 A pair of adults from Lampong. I am not at all satisfied that 

 the relationship of the birds of this geniLs is properly understood. 

 The seasonal plumages and those due to age seem so complicated 

 lliat it is quite possible that more of the current species will have 

 to be relegated to synonymy. 



Siphia cantatrix (Temm.K 



3/uscifapa cantatrix Teniminck, PI. Col., Ill, PI. 236 ( $ ). 

 Aluscicapa elegans Temnunck, PI. Col., Ill, PI. 596 (J^j. 



Three specimens from Lampong. 



As the plate of the female was obviously issued long before that 

 of the male, although now bound in the same volume, I see no 

 course but to adopt the name based upon the_former. 



Artamides snmatrensis (S. Miill.). 



Ceblepyris sumatrenms S. Miiller, Verb. Nat. Geschied. Laud und 

 Volken, p. 190.* 



Two females and one male from Lampong and a female from 

 Padane:. 




''82 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



Fericrocotns xanthogaster (Raffl.). 



Lanius xanthogaster RaflSes, Trans. Linn. Soc, XIII, p. 309, 1822. 

 Sumatra. 



One male from the higlilaads of Padang. 

 Lalage dozninica (Mull.). 



Tardus dominicus P. L. S. Miiller, Syst. Nat. Anhang., p. 145, 1776. 



" St. Domingo." 

 = Tardus terat Boddacrt, Tabl. PI. Enl., p. 17, 1783. 



Two specimens, cue from Lampoug and one from Padang. 



lalage oulminata (Hay). 



Ceblepyris culminatus A. Hay, Madr. Jour., XIII, p. 1.57. Malacca. 



A female from Padang. 



Chloropsis zosterops Vigors. 



VHoT02>sis zosterops Vigors, App. 3Icm. Life of Raffles, p. 674. 

 Sumatra. 



Four specimens, three from Lampong and one from the highland 



of Padang, all males. 



Chloropsis media (6p.). 



I'Jiyllornis Tttedia "iliill." Bp., Consp., I, p. 396. 18o0. Sumatra. 

 Two males and a female from Padang highlanils. 



Chloropsis icterooephala (Less.). 



Phyllor/iis icteroccphalus Lesson, Rev. Zool., 1840, p. 164. Sumatra, 

 Horueo and India. 



Two males and a female from Lampong. 



Chloropsis cyanopogon (Temm.). 



PliyUoruis cyanopogon Temm., PI. Col., .512, tig. 1. 



Two from Lampoug, one from Padang. 



Irena criniger Sharpe. 



Irena criniger Sharpe, Cat. Birds Brit. Mus.. Ill, p. 267. Sumatra 

 and Borneo. 



Thirteen s[X2cimens from Padang highlands and the Lampong 

 district, both males and females. 



One specimen (No. o<S,!;tG6, Acad. Nat. 8ci. Phila. ) from the 

 Padang region diffci's from the series of females in iiaving the 

 plumage much bluer with little of the green cast, the tail and edge 

 of the wings csjx'ciall)- being dark-blue. This may be a yoimg 

 male, but it shows no signs of the black or euameled-bhie feathers 

 of the adult. 




1902.] XATUKAL SCIKNCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 683 



Enptilotus entilotus (Jard. and Selby). 



Brachypus eutilotua Jard. aud Selby, 111. Ornilh., IV (n. s.), PI. 

 III. Singapore. 



One specimen from Lampong. 



Miorotarsus melanoleuous Eyt. 



Mierotirsus meHnolev cus Eytou, P. Z. S., 1839, p. Wi. Malay 

 region. 



One example from Lampong. 



Miorotarsus melanooephalns tOm,). 



Laniiis melunocephalus Gmeliu., Syst. Xat., I, p. 309, 1788. Sand- 

 wich Islands. 



Two specimens from Lampong and five from the Padaug high- 

 lands. 



Criniger phaeooephalus (Hartl.). 



Jxos (I'l-ichixos Less.) phcBOcephalus Hartlaub, Rev. Zool., 1844, 

 p. 401. Malacca. 



Six specimens from Lampong. 



Tricliolestes criniger (Blyth). 



Brachypodins (?) criniger BlylU, .Jour. As. See. Bengal, XIV, p. 

 577. Malacca. 



One from Padang. 



Traohycomus ochrooeplialus (Gm.). 



Tardus ochroeephalus Gmelin, Syst. Xat., I, p. 831. Ceylon and 

 Java. 



Four from the Padang highlands and two from Lampong. 

 Pycnonotus simplex Les?. 



Picnoiiotus simplex Lesson, Rev. Zool., 1839, p. 167. Sumatra. 



Four from Lampong aud one each trom Padang and the adja- 

 cent highlands. Three of these specimens are smaller and some- 

 what lighter than the others, but not appreciably different in other 

 respecls. They are possibly distinct. 



Pycnonotus analis (Horsf.). 



'Tardus analis Horsfield, Trans. Linn. Soc, XIII, p. 147, 1831. Java. 

 Two from Lampong, five from the Padang highlands, and one 

 from the coast. 



Pycnonotus plumosus'Blytb. 



Pycnnnoius plumosus Blytb, Jour. As. Soc. Bengal, XIV. p. 567. 

 Malacca. 



Two from Lamjjong. 




684 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [< )cl. . 



Rabigula dispar (Horsf.). 



Turdtts dispar Ilorsfield, Trans. Linn. Sor.. XIII, p. 150, 18'21. 

 Java. 



Two from Lampong and two from the Padang highlands. 



Copsyohus saularis musicus (Raffl.). 



Liinivs musir'ix Raffles, Trans. Linn. See., XIII, p. 307, 18i'3. 

 Sumatra? 



Two from the Padaug highlands and ouc from Lampong. 



Raffle* states that this is the " Tardus mindanensis of Gmelin 

 and tlie Graculn saularM of Liunseu.*, now witli more propriety 

 I)Iaced in the genus Lanius. It is one of the few singing birds of 

 India." Whether this name is not a pure synonym of satilark is 

 an open question; though Raffles probably liad the Sumatran bird 

 in mind he does not say so, nor is his diagnosis sufficient to iden- 

 tify it. 



Our specimens show considerable variation, one having only four 

 black feathers in the tail, and the next pair white for a space of 

 one inch. This bird exactly matches a Siam example in the 

 Academy collection. From the material at hand this race docs 

 not .«eem very well defined. 

 Cittooinola macrarus suavis (SclatcrV 



Copnychus suavis ScHler, P. Z. S., 1861, p. 18"). Horneo. 



Five specimens from Lampong. 



Sharpe (Cat. liird.-', VII, p. 88) states that the name C. maerurus 

 should not be used, as it is not identifiable ; the while ou(er tail 

 feathers of Latham's plate would indicate the Rornean bird, while 

 the type locality, " Pulo Condore," would almost certainly yield 

 true " tricolor." The present series from Sumatra shows much 

 variation in the extent of white on the outer tail feathers. In one 

 it is 1^ in., measured along the mid-riii, and in anoilior 2^. 



Hydrocichla rnficapilla Temm. 



Knieurus ruficapUlus Temminck, PI. Col., Ill, PI. 534, 1833. 

 Three specimens from the Padang highlands. 



Hydrocichla velata Tcmm. 



Enicurutvdalus iGmmmck, PI. Col., Ill, P). 100, 1(523. 

 One from the Padang highlands. 

 Hydrocichla frontalis Hlyib. 



Enuurut fronlalis Blylh, Jour. As. Sor. Benp:il. XVI. p. l.'ift. 1847. 

 Miilay Peninsula. 



Three specimens from I>ampong. 




1902.] NATUKAL iSC'IKNCJiS OF PHILAUELl'UlA. 685 



Garrnlax bicolor Ilartl. 



Oarrulax bicolor " S. Miill." Hartlaub, Rev. Zool., 1844, p. 403. 

 Sumatra. 



Oue from the Padang highlands. 



Ehinocichla mitrata (Mull ). 



Timalia mitrata S. Miiller, Tijdschr, Nat. Gesch., 1835, p. 345, PI. 5, 

 fig. 3. Java. 



Six specimens from the Padang highlands. 



Mixornis gularis (Rafll.). 



Mutacilla gularis Raffles, Tiaus. Linn. Soc, XIII, p. 312, 1822. 

 Sumatra. 



Seven, specimens from Lampong. 



Mixornis erytliroptera (Blyth). 



Timalia erythroptera Bljtli, Jour. As. Soc. Bengal. XI, p. 794, 1842. 

 Malay region. 



One specimen from Lampong. 



Macronns ptilosus Jard. and Selby. 



Macroiius ptilosus Jardine and Selby, 111. Ornith., PI. 150, 1835. 

 Java and Sumatra. 



Three specimens from Lampong. 



Trichastoma buttikoferi Vorderm. 



2'richostoma Biatikoferi Vorderman, Nat. Tijdschr. Ned. Indie, 

 189a, p. 230. Lampong, Sumatra (Ref. from Biittikofer). 



One specimen from the Lampong district which agrees exactly 

 with the description of Vorderman' s hitherto unique bird. The 

 present specimen (No. 39,204, Coll. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. ) 

 measures: wing 70 mm., tail 54, tarsus 27, culmen 15. The 

 "narrow black edgings" to the feathers of the crown, while 

 clearly apparent, are really an optical effect produced by the 

 loose-vaned feathers lying over one another. 



In Mr. Biitlikofer's excellent paper in Notes from the Leyden 

 Museum, XVII, p. 65, 1895, I am unable to appreciate the impor- 

 tance of the character upon which he bases his primary division of 

 the genus Trichastoma (p. 87), i.e., the presence or absence of 

 " concealed white longitudinal shaft streaks on the feathers of the 

 back and rump." 



The specimen above mentioned has the basal portion of the 

 shafts of these feathers white, yet it is placed in the section with 

 no white concealed streaks ; while the type of T. celebeii.se Strick- 

 land, which is now l)efore me (No. 17,370, Coll. Acad. Nat. Sci. 




686 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct. . 



Phila. ), seems to show less of these white sliafts than floes T- 

 butiikoferi, yet it falls iu the other division. 



Malacopteron erylhrote of Sharpe I had already decided to be 

 congeneric with T. huttikoferi before consulting ^fr. Biittikofer's 

 paper, and I find he has reached the same conclusion, regarding it 

 as a synonym of Trichastoma pyrrhogenijs Temm., which it evi- 

 dently is. There may be some question, however, as to the geo- 

 graphic distribution of the species, as our two specimens are labeled 

 Sumatra. 



On p. 84 of Mr. Biittikofer's paper he refers Brachi/pteryx 

 polyogenys Sirickl. with a query to Anuropsis malaccensU (Ilartl. ). 

 With Strickland's type before me I have no hesitation in confirm- 

 ing this identification. Another of Strickland's types, also in the 

 Academy's collection, brings to light a curious error which has been 

 perpetuated in all the works on the Timaliw, and which involves a 

 change in the name of the well-known li hinomyms peetoralis. 

 Among the many type specimens secured for the Academy by Dr. 

 Thomas B. Wil.^on is the original of Napothera umbratilis 

 " Temm." Strickland {Co7it. Orn., 1849, p. 128, PI. 31). This 

 name being quoted by Sharpe, Oates and Biittikofer as a synonym 

 of Triehadoma roslratum Blyth, I made an examination of the 

 Strickland specimen, regarding it as typical of the genus Tricha- 

 stoma, but soon became convinced that it had nothing whatever to 

 do with the latter, and subsequently, with the aid of Dr. C. W. 

 ■Richmond, it was identified as Rhinomyias peetoralis Salvad.! 



Strickland's name having many years' priority must be adopted, 

 and the species will then stand ds liliinomyias timbratllin (Sirickl.). 



Dr. Richmond has sent me for comparison some specimens of 



Rhinomyicw from the U. S. National ^luseum collection, collected in 



Linga and Maudalar Islands, Western Sumatra, which he had 



identified as " R. peetoralis." These, however, differ from the 



type of R. iimbratitii, of which peetoralis becomes a synonym, and 



seem worthy of separation as a distinct race, for whicii I would 



propose the name of 



RhinomTias umbratilis riohmondi subsp. nov. 



Type 170,8 0, U. S. ^■at. Mns.. Miinsalar Island, wtsl coatt ol 

 Sumatra, March 12, 1902. Dr. W. L. Abbott. 



Sii* and proportions apparently similar to R. umbratilis {= pee- 

 toralis Auct. ;. Coloration similar, but of a decided olivaccou> 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 687 



cast, which color is eiilirely lacking from the type specimen of 

 R. umhratilis. Nearly uniform olive-brown above (intermediate 

 between mummy-brown and olive of Ridgway's Nomenclature of 

 Colors), edges of wings and tail more tawny; sides of the face and 

 neck like the back, lores whitish and feathers behind the eye dis- 

 tinctly grayish. Below pure white, sides of body under the wings 

 pale olive, and a pronounced pectoral band of olive-brown darkest 

 at the sides. "Bill black. Iris brown. Feet purplish-fleshy" 

 (Abbott). 



Length (in flesh) 6f inches =162 mm. ; wing, 74 mm. ; tar- 

 sus?, 18 mm. 



Another specimen, obtained by Dr. Abbott on Linga Island, 

 July 14, 1899, is essentially similar, and from both of them the 

 type of R. umhratilis differs in ils distinctly tawny-brown coloration. 



Prinia olivaoea (RafB.). 



Mo aeilla olivacea'RuM.es, Trans. Linn. Soc, XIII, p. 313, 1833. 



Two specimens from Lampong. 



In his description of this bird in the Catalogue of Birds, Dr. 

 Sharpe slates that the head of the adult is brown, and again that 

 in the young or winter plumage the head is " brown, not gray." 

 The specimens before me, which I take to be adult, have the head 

 distinctly gray all around in contrast to the olive back, throat 

 pure while and a broad gray collar joinmg the gray of the sides 

 of the neck and separating the white throat from the yellow abdo- 

 men. Two other examples from Java, kindly loaned by the U. S. 

 National Museum, have the appearance of being young birds in 

 Juvenal plumage, with shorter biils and duller coloration. Head 

 uniform olive-brown like the back, lores and stripe to the top of 

 the eye white. 

 Orthotomns oineraoens Blyth. 



Orthotomiis cineraceus Blyth, Jour. As. Soc. Bengal, XIV, p. 589, 

 1845. Malacca. 



A male and female from Lampong. 



Ortliotomus atrigulans Temm. 



Orthotomus atrigularis Temminck, PI. Col., Ill, text to livr. 101. 

 183(5. 



One female from Padang. 



Lanias superciliosns Lath. 



Laiiius supercUiosus Latham, Ind. Orn. Suppl., p. 30, No. 14, 1801.* 

 One adult male from Lampong. 




688 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OK [Oct., 



Lanius tigrinus Drapiez. 



Lanius tigrinus Brapiez, Diet. Class. Hist. Nat., XIII, p. 523, 1828.* 

 Two specimens from Padang and one from Lampong, represent- 

 ing young and adult in winter plumage. 



Artamas lencorhynohas (Linn.). 



Lanius leucorliynchua Linnaeus, Mantissa, p. 524, 1771. Manilla. 

 OcypUrus Uucogastcr Valenc , Mem. Mus. d'Hist. Nat., VI, p. 21, 

 1820. 



One from the highlands of Padang, two from the coa.st and two 



from Lampong. 



Dicaeum samatrannm Cab. 



Dicaum sumatranum Cabanis, Jour, fiir Orn., 1878, p. 101. Sum- 

 atra. 



One from the Padang highlands. 



Anthreptes malaoensis (Scop.). 



Certhii malacensia Scopoli, Del Flor. et Faun. Insuljr., II, p. 91, 

 1780. Malacca. 



Two specimens from the Padang highlands and four from 

 Ijampong. 



Cinnyris brasiliana (Gm.). 



Certhia braniliana Gmel., Syst. Nat, I, p. 474, 1788. " Brazil." 

 Nectarinia hasaeliii Temm., PI. Col., 37^, 1825. 



One from Lampong. 



Hotaoilla boanila melanope (Pall.). 



Motncilla Melanope Pallas, Ueis. Russ. Reicbs, III, App., p. 09G, 

 1770. Dauuria. 



One from Padang and another from the adjacent highlands. 



Anthns rufnlns malayensis (Kyt.). 



Aitthitu iiuttai/c/isis Eyiou, P. Z. S., 1839, p. 104. Malay region. 

 One specimen from the highlands of Padang and one from the 

 coast. 



Phyllopnenste borealis (Bias). 



PhyllopiKuate borealis Ulasius, Naumannia, 1858, p. 313. 



One specimen from Lampang. 



Drolonoha lencogastra (BIyili). 



\miidina leucogaslra Blylh, Jour. A.S. Soc. Bengal, XV, 2H(5, 1840. 

 Malay region. 



Three adults from Lani|)oug. 




Prolonoha leucogastroides (Moore). 



^««M leucogastroides Moore rnt»i„ 

 Huseum, 11, p. gjo, 1856 Java ^"' ^''''^' ^^^' I-^d.. Cdup 



Mnnia pnnotulata nisoria (Temm.). 



Munia nisoria Temminck PI Oni ttt b, ... 



Mnnia maja (Linn.). 



Zm-^ «ai« Linnsus, Syst. Nat., I p 301 i7fifi ..■ ^ 



Ploceus megarhynohus Hume. 



'1^S;:X^^-^^^^^r.y .ea.e., 18.. p, 153 a.. .00 



but I cannot see thi HoC^f-.-^rrbS^^ " ^°'^-^-" ^'••^^'• 

 status so far as nomenclature I- * "^ . '^"^'""^ ^^^^ any 



considered. Eliminatin-. the«e retrln \P ^escnp.iou, can be 



is that of Hume, as give! abZ "' "' "^^' -- --'able 



Oriolus maoulatus Vieill. 



OrW«« maculatus Vieillot Kn,- n- . ,,„ 



Java. '"^'"°'' ^o^- Diet. d'Hist. Nat., XIII, p. 194 



Five specunens from the highlands of Padang. 

 Onolus xanthonotns Horsf. 



oriolus Xa^aonotus HorsfleM, Trans. Linn. Soc.. XIII, p. ,,, 

 Two males and a female from Lampong. 

 Buchanga cineracea Horsf. 



«« cineraeeus HorsflelC, Trans. Linn. Soc, XIH. p. 1,, 1831 

 Six specimens from the Padang highlands. 

 Chaptia malayensis " Hay ■■ BIyth. 



Chaptia malayensis " Hav " P.l,-ti t 

 P- 394. Malacca. ^ ■' '^' J''"^- ^siat. Soc. Bengal, XV^. 



One from Padang. 

 44 




690 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



DissemuTus platurus (Vieill.). 



Dicrurus platunia Vieillot, Nov. Diet. d'Hist. Nat. IX, 1817, p. 588. 

 Malabar ? 



Two specimens from Lampoug aud two from the highlands of 

 Padang. 



It does not seem clear just where Vieillot's bird came from, but 

 from what material I have examined, it woidd seem that the birds 

 of Java, Sumatra and Borneo are identical, aud that the names 

 malayensis Blyth and brachijphorm Bp. are consequently synonyms 

 of the above. 



Eulabes javanensis (Osbeck). 



Oorviis javanensis Osbeck, Voyage [English Trausl.], ji. 157, 1771. 



Six specimens from Lampong. 



I fail to see how this species can be cited from Osbeck's original 

 work which dales from 1757. In the German translation (1765) 

 the name is changed to C. religiosa Linn., but in the English trans- 

 lation (1771) the original name is restored, consequently, innsmuch 

 as Linnaeus' name seems applicable to the Indian bird, we can use 

 javanensis Osbeck, 1771, for this one. 



Lamprooorax chalybea (HorsC). 



Tardus chalyieus Ilorsfield, Trans. Linn. Soc, XIII, p. 148, 1831. 

 Java. 



Two examples from Ihe Padang highlands and five from Lam- 

 pong. 



This species is described under three different names in the same 

 volume of the lAnnaan Transactions. On the same page as the 

 above Hoi-sfield describes the female as Tardus drigalus, but in 

 accordance with the A. 0. U. code, we should give precedence to 

 the name based on the male, even though the other stands first. 



Sturnopastor jalla (Horsf.). 



Pastor j alia Horsfield, Trans. Linn. Soc, XIII, p. 155, 1821. Java. 



Three specimens from Lampong. 



Corvns maororhynchoB Wagl. 



Corciis Macrorhynchos Wagler, Syst. Av. Corvus, 8p. 3. Sumatra 

 and Java. 



Two specimens from Lampong, just completing the post-juvenal 



molt. 




1902.] ^^^^^^^ ^^^^^^^ ^^ PHILADELPHIA. 691 



Dendrooitta occipitalis (Jimi.). 



^S^r;. ''''^''^^'^ ^«"-. Tijdschr. Kat. Geach., 1835, p. 343, PL 

 Three specimens from theTadang highlands. 

 Platylophns coroaatns (Raffl.). 



'■'S.Z""^- ""«<•• T»n.. 1,... s„o., an. p. ,„., ,.,,. 



Platysmurus leuoopterus (Temm.). 



(?te;.c.p« leucopurm Temminck, PI Col 055 

 Jive specimens from Lampong and one' from the highlands of 




692 proceedings of the academy of [nov., 



November 4. 



Mr. Arthur Erwin Brown, Vice-President, iu the Chair. 



Thirty-one persons present. 



A paper entitled " Synopsis of the Carditacea and of the Ameri- 

 can Species," by AVilliam Healy Dall, was presented for publica- 

 tion. 



November 11. 

 The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M. D. , iu the Chair. 



Fifteen persons present. 



A paper entitled " Noles on the Orthoptera of New Mexico and 

 Western Te.xas," by James A. G. Rehn, was presented for publi- 

 cation. 



The deaths of Thomas C. Price and Dr. Frederick Packard, 

 members, were announced. 



NOVE.MBER 18. 



Mr. Arthur Erwin Brown, Vice-President, in the Chair. 



Fourteen persons present. 



A paper entitled " Hymenoptera from Southern California and 

 New Mexico, with Description of a New Species," by H. Viereck, 

 was presented for publication. 



November 25. 

 The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M.D., iu ihe Chair. 



. Twenty-six persons present. 

 Herman Y. Wolf and Lilian V. Sampson were elected members. 

 The following were ordered to be printed : 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 693 



A LIST OF THE REPTILES AND BATRACHIANS IN THE HARKISON- 

 HILLES COLLECTION FROM SUMATRA. 



BY ARTHUR ERWIN BROWN. 



The reptiles and batrachians collected in Sumatra iu 1901 by 

 Mr. Alfred Harrison, Jr., and Dr. H. M. Hiller, through the 

 generosity of these gentlemen are now the property of the Academy. 

 They were obtained at Goenong Soegi, Lampong Dwtrict, below 

 the elevation of 500 feet; and at Batu Sangkar, Tanah Datar, in 

 the forest region of Padang, between 1,500 and 3,000 feet. In 

 the following list of the species represented, these localities are 

 respectively indicated by the letters L. and P. 



REPTILIA. 



Chelonia. 



Trionyx subplanus Geofl. L., P. 



Trionyx oartilagineus (Bodd.). L. 



Lacertilia. 



Hemidactylus frenatus (ScW. ). P. 



Draoo volans L. P. 



In both of the specimens, c? and 9, the color is very dark- 

 brown, so dark as to render all markings obscure. The ventral 

 surface and under side of the wing membranes have a purplish 

 tinge, wi(h black spots on the latter which tend to run together 

 transversely. In all detaUs of scutellation they correspond to 

 undoubted specimens of the present species. 



Draco fimbriatus Kuhl. P. 



Draco haematopogon Gray. P. 



Calotes cristatellus (Kuhl.)- L., P. 



Varanus salvator (Laur.). L., P. 



In No. 15,032, 380 mm. long, the ventral scales are perfectly 

 smooth. In No. 14,492, 440 mm. long, they begin to show faint 

 keels. 

 Tachydromus sexlineatns Daud. P. 




694 peoceedings of the academy of [nov., 



Ophidia. 



Tropidonotus trianguligerus Bole. L., P. 



In seveu specinieus which present the scutellation of this 

 species, there is considerable variation in color. No. 15,040, from 

 Goenong Soegi, has the general color dark olive and the spaces 

 between the black lateral blotches are colored like the back. This 

 specimen has the postoculars | and the temporals i-3. 



Tropidonotus ohrysargus Schl. P. 



Macropisthodon rhodomelus (Boie). L. 



Macropistliodon flaviceps (D- and B.). L. 



Zaocys oarinatus (Gunth.). L. 



Zamenis korros (Schl.). L. 



Dendrophis pictus (Gm.). L., P. 



Dendrelaphis caudolineatus (Gray). P. 



Calamaria leucocephala !>■ and B. P. 



The single specimen of this species is blackish above, yellowish 

 beneath, a broad band of the light ventral color extending across 

 the nape and the parietals. 

 Psammodynastes pulverulentus (Boie). L- 



(Jompared with Boruean examples, this specimen has the ventral 

 surface thickly speckled with black, forming four quite regular 

 series in longitudinal lines. 



Dryophis prasinus Boie. L. 



Dryophis fasoiolatus (Fiseh.). P 



Chrysopelea ornata (Shaw). . P. 



No. 15,000 has each .scale with a conspicuous yellow spot. Ven- 

 trals black-edged. 



Flatnrus latioaudatus (L.). L. 



BATRACHIA. 



ECAUDATA. 



Bana tigrina Caud. - p. 



Kana erythrsea (Schl.). p. 



Eana chalconota (Schl.) p. 



Callula baleata (MiiU). - p. 



No. 14,i)Sl is a Callula, a genus which, as far as I am aware, has 

 not heretofore been reported from Sumatra. In the absence of 

 spticimens for coiiiparist^n, 1 sec no reason to separate it from 

 G. baleata, which occurs in Java. 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. H95 



Bufo asper Graven. P. 



Three of the four specimens show red on the throat, and in one 

 of them it extends over the sides of the body. 



Megalophrys montana (Kuhl.). P. 



This specimen has the supraorbital and nasal appendages well 



developed, and may be the form known as M. ncmda Schl., which 



is very doubtfully distinct. The fingers are very slightly webbed. 




696 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Nov., 



SYNOPSIS OF THE CAEDITACEA AND OF THE AMERICAN SPECIES. 

 BY WILLIAM HEALEY DALL. 



" This paper is in coutinuatiou of the series of similar synopses of 

 groups of bivalve shells which the writer has prepared during the 

 last few years, including the Leptonacea, Tellinacea, Veneracea, 

 Lucinacea, Cardiacea, etc. The present paper contains a summary 

 of the groups included in the Carditidce and the Condylocardiidm, 

 and of the species reported to inhabit the Atlantic and Pacific 

 coasts of America. Doubtless with a better exploration of the 

 tropical and South American waters some additions may be ex- 

 pected to the list. 



The group is intimately related lo the CragsatellitldcE, Astartidic 

 and Chamida, as shown by its paleontologic history, anatomy and 

 development. There are no siphons, the border of the mantle is 

 pierced for the excurrent orifice, while the iucurrent orifice may or 

 may not be complete, but in most cases seems to be formed by the 

 apposition rather than the organic connection, ventrally, of the 

 edges of the mantle. The gilLs are coai-sely reticular and usually 

 united behind the foot. In many, if not all, cases (ho young are 

 developed within the body cavity of the mother and retained there 

 imlil some progress in secreting the nepionic shell has been made, in 

 addition to the completion of the prodissoconch. This incubation 

 in one group takes place in the atrium of the ovary, in another in 

 a specially d'eveloped fold of the ventral part of the mantle lobes 

 which secretes and lines a shelly marsui)iuMi which is absent in the 

 shells of male individuals. 



Tiie species arc iLsualiy sedentary, and mostly .«ecrete a byssus by 

 which they fix themselves when young, and in one large group this 

 condition continues through life. The sculpture is predominantly 

 radial and often strong, the periostraciiin conspicuous and fre- 

 (luenlly pilose; the valves, except in aby.<.<al and minute species, 

 are usually solid and heavy and their margins strongly crenate. 

 The ligament in the Carditidce is strong and wlioUy external; in 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. G97 



the Condylocardiidw the resilium is immersed and the ligament 

 feeble or obsolete. 



The hinge-formula, when fully developed, as in Carditamera, 

 '^ R 10 10101 10 ' ^^^^ '° n^^iy forms the laterals are obsolete and the 

 distal cardinals very feeble, coalescent with valve-margin or nymph, 

 and hardly to be made out, so that in such forms as Venericardia 

 the formula may be reduced to ^ !?,!?,'' !!■ The hinge has never 

 more than two left cardinals, the posterior one invariably long- 

 drawQ-out, a characteristic feature of tlie family, while the Vene- 

 ridce never have less than three left cardinals, so that convergent 

 forms may readily be referred to their proper family. The teeth 

 are usually finely striated. It is evident that with part of the hinge 

 armature so liable to degeneration too much stre.ss in classification 

 must not be laid on such mutable features, and as a matter of fact 

 the generally accepted subgeneric and sectional groups are chiefly 

 based on external form, a character which proves unexpectedly 

 constant when the groups are traced back through the line of their 

 fossil progenitors. 



The lunule is usually small, or even obsolete, and frequently 

 unequal])' distributed between the valves, but when present is 

 usually circumscribed by a deep, narrow sulcus, the termination of 

 which on the inner left hinge-margin is frequently marked by a 

 small but distinct pustule received into a dimple in the opposite 

 valve ; this pustule may or may not coincide with the left anterior 

 lateral lamina. In Berjuma the sulcus is so extended by the torsion 

 of the hinge as to become tubular, though this perforation is prob- 

 ably closed by an organic plug iu the living shell. The escutcheon 

 is frequently linear or obsolete; when present it is usually limited 

 by a ridge or keel. The pallia! Hue is almost invariably entire, 

 but in Cardiocardita ajar there is a broad posterior scar in front of 

 the posterior adductor which simulates an indentation of the line 

 and is probably caased .by some enlargement of the siphonal 

 muscles. 



The valves are usually white w'ithia aud the color of the exterior 

 is dull, except in a few tropical species. 



The group is of ancient origin and has Mesozoic represeatatives, 

 but only those of Tertiary and Recent hoi'izous will be considered 

 here. 




698 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [NoV. > 



The liviug species are largely shallow water forms, especially 

 the byssiferous types, but some of the minute species occur at con- 

 siderable depths; the Arctic type, Cyclocardla, occurs in 822 

 fathoms (1,707 meters), and Calyptogena in 322 fathoms (669 

 meters). 



In America Cardita s.s. and Veneideardia s.s. , Miodon, Calyp- 

 togena, Mllneria and Carditella are restricted to the Pacific coast ; 

 while Pleiiromeris and Pteromeris are known, so far, only from the 

 Atlantic. The Pacific coast has twenty -seven and the Atlantic 

 coast only twelve species of Carditacea. Carditamera with seven 

 and Cyclocardla with fifteen being the most prolific in species. 



Of those enumerated in this paper seven are new. It seems that 

 the world mustei-s, as a whole, only about sixty species; the two 

 Americas thirty-nine, and the Pacific coast nearly half of all that 

 are known. 



The Carditacea are divided into Carditldm, with the ligament 

 and resiliura external and united, and Condylocardiidce, with the 

 resilinni iinnier.sed and the hinge in a more or less permanently 

 imperfectly developed state. 



The Carditidif comprise two subfamilies: Ctrrdiiiuce, with the 

 mareupium dorsal, or superior, and not reflected in the structure of 

 the valves; and Thecalibue, with the marsupium ventral, or infe- 

 rior, and j)rotected by an infolding or indentation of the inner 

 shelly layer of the valves. The subdivi?ious of these groups are as 

 follows : 



Subfamily CARDITINJE. 

 Oenus CABDITA (Bruguiire, 1792), Lamarck, 1799. 



Type Chama cali/culata Linne' (+ Mytilicardita Anton, 1839; 

 Mytilicardia Herrm., 1847). 



Valves elongate-quadrate, strongly radially ribbed, very inequi- 

 lateral and with a narrow byssal gape. 



Section Cardita s.s. 



Hinge with two left and three right cardinals, the laterals ob.so 

 lete in the adult. 



Section Oarditamera Conrad, 1838. 

 Type Cardita arata Conrad. 

 Valves with the laterals well developed in tiie adult, the right 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 699 



anterior cardinal often obsolete. Lazaria Gray, 1854, and Lasa- 

 riella Sacco, 1899, are synonymous. 



Section Glans Megerle, 1811. 



Type C. trapezia Linue. 



Valves short, quadrate, convex ; shell small ; the posterior right 

 cardinal often obsolete. 



Subgenus BEGUINA BoUen, 179S. 



Type Chama phrenetica Born, 1780. 



Shell large, mytiliform, subconipressed, with feeble, radial sculp- 

 ture, the umbones terminal, the hinge arcuate and drawn out, the 

 lunule tubular, the posterior cardinals much elongated, the laterals 

 absent. Azarella Gray, 1854, is synonymous. A single Indo- 

 Pacific species is known. 



Genus VENERICAKDIA Lamarck, ISOl. 



Type V. imbricata Lamarck, Parisian Eocene. 



Shell rounded-trigonal, strongly radially ribbed, lunule minute 

 and deep, escutcheon linear, the hinge with two transversely 

 striated cardinals in the left and three in the right valve, a sub- 

 hmular pustule sometimes present in the left valve, bat the laterals 

 absent or obsolete. 



Megacardita Sacco, 1899, is synonymous. 



Subgenus CARDIOCARDITA Anion, 1839. 



Type Cardita ajar Bruguiere. 



Hinge like Venericardia s.s., pallial line with a broad scar in 

 front of the posterior adductor scar; Agaria (ilray, 1847; Acti- 

 nobohis Morch, 1853, and Azaria Tryou, 1872, are synonymous. 



Subgenus COSSMANNELLA Mayer Eymar, 1897. 



Type Cardita cegyptiaca Fraas, Eocene. 



Shell elongate-oval, the cardinal teeth feeble, the ribs slender 

 and distant, the paUial line entire. 



Subgenus CARDITES Link, 1S07. 



Type Cardita antiquata Linne (sp. ) ^ C. sulcata Bruguiere. 

 Shell like Venericardia s.s., but the anterior right cardinal 

 absent, the laterals obsoleie. 




700 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Nov., 



Section Cardites s.s. 

 Shell with external coloration, frequenting the warmer seas. 

 Section Cyclocardia Conrad, 1867. 



Type Cardita borealis Conrad. 



Shell white, with a nide periostracum ; frequenting the boreal 

 seas or cold abysses. Arcturm (Jray, 1839, not Cuvier, 1829 ; 

 Adiiiobolus Morse, 1869, and Scalaricardita Sacco, 1899, are syn- 

 onymous. 



Subgenus PLETJKOMEEIS Conrad, 1S67. 



Type Cardita tridentata Say, not Reeve. 



Shell small, subtriangular, subequilateral, the hinge like Veneri- 

 cardia, but the anterior and posterior right cardinals feeble, the 

 left valve with feeble anterior and posterior laterals. 



Subgenus PTEROMERIS Conrad, 1862. 



Type Astarte perplana Conrad. 



Shell small, high, oblique, with narrow iimboue^, radial ribbing, 

 a well-marked Inuule aud escutcheon, the hinge as in Cardites. 

 Coripia De Gregorio, 1885, is synonymous. 



Subgenu.s MIODON Carpenter, 18G4 (not of Sandberger, 1870). 



Type M. prolongatus Carpenter. 



Shell not very different from Pteromerii, but not compressed, 

 an<l with the posterior (instead of the anterior) right cardinal 

 absent aud a posterior right and anterior left lateral developed 

 feebly. 



Subgenus NEOCARDIA Sonerby, 1892. 



Type N. angidata Sowerby, South Africa. 



Shell small, wing-shaped, resembling Pteromeri^. Hinge as in 

 Cardites except that long posterior laterals are said to be present, 

 with no anterior laterals, the cardinals diminutive. 



Genus CALYPTOGENA DaU, ln91. 



Ty])e C. pacifica Dall. Pliocene and Recent. 



Shell large, oblong, chalky, with only faint concentric sculpture, 

 a well-marked escutcheon, but no luiiulc, the iinier margins 

 smooth, an anterior lateral in each valve ; hinge formula j^ 'Q^^^^]■ 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 701 



Subfamily THBOALIIN^. 

 Genus THECALIA H. and A. Adams, 1S57. 



Type T. concamerata Bruguiere (sp. ), South Africa. 



Shell like a small Cardltamera externally ; the female has in each 

 valve a funicular infold of the inner layer of the shell to serve as 

 a marsupium, which, when the valves are closed, is completely 

 internal ; the male only a small byssal gape in the same region. 

 Hinge with two cardinals in each valve, the posterior right cardinal 

 absent, the middle right cardinal large and produced behind ; there 

 is an anterior lateral in each valve. The eggs are discharged into 

 the marsupium, which is lined by a fold of the mantle, and remain 

 there until the young shells are well advanced beyond the prodis- 

 soconch stage. 



Genus MILNERIA DaU. 1S51. 



Type Ceropsis minima Dal], 1S71. Recent. California. 



Shell very small and trapezoidal, flattened on the ventral side; 

 the female with a dome-like indentation of the ventral margins of 

 the valves, which is closed below only by a fold of the mantle and 

 not included within the closed valves ; hinge with two left and three 

 right cardinals, the posterior left lateral, posterior and anterior 

 right cardinals minute and recognizable only in the best-developed 

 specimens, which have the formula _ q'^qioi • "^^^^ male is bys.si- 

 ferous and the species habitually nestles on flat surfaces, particu- 

 larly the backs of Haliot'is shells. 



The name Ceropsis being preoccupied since 1)S.39 in Coleoptera 

 by Solier, it was replaced by Milneria. The young are incubated 

 as in Thecalia. 



Cabralia {Schmitzii) Boehm, 1899, from the Miocene of the 

 Azores, was referred to the Carditidce, but appears to belong in the 

 Venerida near Venerupii, its hardly sinuated pallial line being 

 paralleled in Chione, etc. 



Family CONDYLOCARDIID.ffi. 

 Genus EEYCINELLA Conrad, 18-15. 



Type E. oi'a^is Conrad (not of S. ^Yood). IMioceue of Virginia. 



Shell small, oval, radially sculptured, with the ligament external ; 



the resilium internal and placed medially between two cardinals in 




702 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Nov. , 



each valve, the lateral edges of the chondrophore slightly raised, 

 so as to resemble ia some specimens two feeble cardinals ; feeble 

 elongate posterior right and anterior left laterals fit into grooves in 

 the opposite valve margins; the inner ventral margins crenidate. 



Subgenus CARDITELLA E. A. Smith, 18H1. 



Type G. pallida Smith. IVIagellan Straits. 



Valve trigonal, with strong radial sculpture with two cardinals in 

 each valve, of which the right posterior is ill defined, the resiliuin 

 sunken behind tKe two developed cardinals ; the ligament is feeble, 

 but there is a developed anterior and posterior lateral in each valve. 



Subgenus CARDITOPSIS E. A. Smith, 18S1. 



Type G. flabclhun Reeve. Chile. 



Like Garditella except that the ligament is obsolete and the re- 

 silium sunken between the beaks as in Enjcinella. 



Genus CONDYLOCARDIA Bernard, 1897. 



Type G. pauliana Bernard. Atlantic Islands. 



Shell minute, with conspicuous prodissocoiich, the hinge teeth 

 only partiallj' de%'eloped out of the uepionic state, so that it is 

 difficult to decide what portions of a continuous lamina should be 

 regarded as cardinal or lateral; subject to this caveat, the formula 

 of the hinge of the type species is r o oiroio i ' ^^^^° compared 

 with gjfoijTQ-J. which is the formula of Eryeinella, the relationship 

 is fairly evident; the sculpture is variable in the different species, 

 but predominantly radial as a rule, the animal viviparous, another 

 link with the Garditidce. 



E.\.ST American Species. 



Cardita (Carditamera) gracilis Shuttleworth, 185G. 



Blanquilla, Torluga and Margarita Islands, Dautzenbcrg ; Porto 

 Rico, Blauiier; Virgin Islands, St. Thomas, Swift; Tampa Bay, 

 Florida, Coll. U. S. N. Mus., 54,141. 



This is a small and delicate representative of G. arata of the 

 Florida Pliocene. 

 Cariita (Carditamera) floridana Conrad, 1838. 



Cape Canaveral on the east coast of Florida, thence south ami 

 west through the Gulf of ^Mexico to Yucatan, in shallow water. 




1902.] NATUEAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 703 



Cardita gihbosa Reeve, 1843, is synonymous. Courad, in 1832, 

 figured an East Indian species on the strength of a valve said to 

 come from Tampa Bay, which he identified with Sowerby's C. in- 

 crassata, and which was renamed G. eonradi by Shuttleworth in 

 1856. This has been referred by Tryon, in 1872, to Tampa Bay, 

 but the species was undoubtedly exotic and should be expunged 

 from American lists. 



? Cardita (Carditamera) peotunoulus BruguiSre, 1792. 



Gulf of Paria, Guppy; South America, Hanley; Madagascar, 

 Reeve (?). 



I feel some doubt as to the species thus named by Guppy, having 

 seen no specimens. Lister's shell so named by Bruguiere may have 

 been a large specimen of C. gracilh. The shell figured under this 

 name by Reeve is almost certainly the West American C. affinis 

 Broderip, and his locality erroneous. 



'Cardita (Carditamera) minima Guppy, 1867. 



West Indies ; Trinidad ? Guppy. Also Pliocene. 



A small, apparently immature species from Matura, Trinidad, 

 is listed by Guppy in 1867 and 1874 among his Pliocene species, 

 and noted as occurring also iu the Recent state. These might well 

 be the young of C. gracilis. 

 Cardita (Glans) dominguensis Orbigny, 1853. 



Cuba and St. Domingo, Orbigny; Cape Hatteras, N. C, and 

 southwai'd to Florida and the Gulf of Mexico, in 36 to 124 fathoms; 

 U. S. Fish Commission steamer ' ' Albatross. ' ' 



Readily recognizable by its squarish form with bright and vari- 

 able yellow, red and brown coloration in the southern part of its 

 range. 

 Venericardia (Cyclooardia) borealis Conrad, 1831. 



Ashe Inlet, Hudson Strait, R. Bell ; Labrador, Stearns, in 3 to 

 10 fathoms ; and southward in gradually increasing depths of water, 

 as the surface grows warmer, to the vicinity of Cape Hatteras, 

 where it has been found living to the depth of 250 fathoms, and 

 dead valves to 435 fathoms ; the latter may, however, have been 

 disgorged by fishes after the digestion of the soft parts. 



This species has been referred to Say's V. granulata, a Miocene 

 form which is smaller, more ventricose and less oblique, with fewer 

 ribs. It is, in part, the Arcturus rudis of Humjjhrey (MS.), 




704 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Nov., 



accordiug to Gray, in 1839, and the Cardita vestiki of Deshayes, 

 in 1852. The young are attached to stones in shallow ^vatev by a 

 slender byssal thread, but the shells do not gape and the adults 

 form no byssus. The females are viviparous, containing a multi- 

 tude of young at the proper season, which are retained wilhiu the 

 mother until the adult type of sculpture succeeds the smooth pro- 

 dissoconch. 



The type is elevated, oblique, rather convex, with the body of 

 the valves suborbicular, covered by a pilose periostracum on which 

 small hairs are arranged in radiating lines. There are from fifteen 

 to tweuty-one low radial ribs, which in the young are usually 

 more or less beaded. This species has not been reported from 

 Greenland or Spitsbergen. The average temperature for seventj-- 

 four localities where it was found living was 53.35° F. , the lowest 

 38°, and the highest 59° F. 



Venerioardia borealis var. novangliae Morse, 1809. 



Newfoundland to Cape Cod, sparingly, with the typical form. 



All the Cyclocardias have a normal and a more elongated form 

 which is usually more compressed. After the examination of a 

 very lai'ge series, I find no other characters by which this variety 

 may be separated from the type, those mentioned by Prof. Morse 

 in his diagnosis being inconstant. The tendency is, however, for 

 the number of ribs in the variety to be slightly less than in the tyi^e. 



Venerioardia (Cyclooardia) procera Gould, 1850. 



Off the mouth of the Rio Xegro, Argentina; AVilkes Exploring 

 Expedition. 



llemarkably like V. borealis, but more coinpres.'^cd, aud with 

 about 15 ribs. It should be compared with V. coniijre.ssu Keeve, 

 1843. 



Venericardia (Cyclooardia) armiUa DaU, 1902. 



Between the Mississippi delta and Cedar Keys, Fla. , in 24 to 

 19(i fathoms, nuid and .siud, the bottom temperature 52° to (i6° 

 F. ; U. S. Fish Commission steamer " Albatros.s. '"' 



Small, convex, elevated, with 17-21 rather sparsely beaded ribs, 

 with subequal, cross striated channels, and a smooth luuule of mod- 

 erate size. It is much more elegantly sculptured than the youug 

 of V. horealk of the same diameter. 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 705 



Venericardia (Cyclooardia) moniliata Ball, 1902. 



EasI of Rio Janeiro, in 59 fathoms, mud, bottom temperature 

 57° F. ; U. S. Fisk Commission steamer " Albatro.ss." . 



Small, with rather large, distinctly limited, smooth lunule and 

 escutcheon, and about 24 slender, closely beaded radial ribs, with 

 subequal striated interspaces. 



Venericardia (Pleuromeris) tridentata Say, 1S26. 



Off Cape Hatteras, X. C, and southward to Florida and the 

 Gulf of Mexico, in 36 to 124 fathoms. 



This is not the species figured by Keeve in 1843 under this 

 name. The latter is an exotic. The present species is also found 

 fossU in the Miocene and Pliocene Tertiary marls of the Atlantic 

 coast. 



Venericardia (Pteromeris) perplana Conrad, 1841. 



Cape Hattera.s, N. C, and southward to Florida and the Gulf 

 of 3Iexico, from near low water to 52 fathoms. Also Upper 

 Miocene and Pliocene of the Carolinas. 



Small, oblique, wing-shaped, compressed and radially ribbed; 

 sometimes rather bright -colored and always variable. V. obliqtia 

 Bush, 1885, is synonymous, and Conrad, after describing the fossil 

 as a Cardita, put it, in 1845, in the genus A.st(}rte, and, because of 

 an earlier Astade perplana, changed the specific name to radians. 

 A year later he named the recent shell from Tampa Bay Astarte 

 flabelia. A shorter, more feebly sculptured form from the York- 

 town and Duplin Miocene he named Cardita abbreviate, but this 

 while the ruling form in the earlier beds is gradually supplanted 

 by V. ]}erplana, and 1 have not seen it in the Recent slate. 



Carditopsis smithii Dall, 1896. 



Bermuda. 



This is figured under the name of Cardita dominguensis Orbiguy 

 in the list of marine mollusks added to the fauna of the Bermudas 

 by Verrill and Bush in Trans. Conn. Acad. Sci., X, p. 517, PI. 

 LXIII, figs. 6, 7, 8, 1900. It is a minute brownish shell, subtri- 

 gonal in shape, with beaded radial sculpture and an internal 

 rcsilium. No species of Cardita or Venericardia has as yet been 

 identified from Bermuda. 



4.-) 




706 proceedings of the academy of [xov. , 



Notes. 



I have not been able to find in the literature the Cardita minima 

 of Sowerbv, to which Guppy refers' a Recent and Pliocene form 

 from Trinidad. The Cardita " affinis Shiittleworth " of Morch's 

 Poulsen catalogue, from the West Indies, is probably due to a 

 momentary mental confusion between C. gracilis Shuttleworth and 

 C. affinis of the Pacific coast. At any rate, I have not been able 

 to discover any .«uch species in the literature. Cardita dactylus 

 Biuguiere and C. cardiloidea Blainville, from the Antilles, belong 

 to Coralliophaga. Cardita incrassata Conrad is exotic, and Car- 

 dita ovata C. B. Adams, 1845, is Vemis pygmcea Lamarck, as I 

 have proved by an examination of the types at Amhei-st. I 

 regard the Jlioceue Venericardia granulata Say, lo which Conrad's 

 V. borealis has been referred by Verrill and Bush, as sufficiently 

 dbtinct. Cardita ardica Bruguiere is referable to Saxieava. 



AVest American Speciis. 

 Cardita Grayi Dall, 1902. 



Cape .St. Lucas, the Gulf of California and south lo Panama 

 and the Galapagos Islands. 



Trapezoidal and iuflaled, this is a very recognizable species. The 

 Cardita incrassata cited by Carpenter in 1864 from the Galapagos 

 Islands is probably, this species. It is Cardita crassa Gray in 

 Beecheji's Voiinge, 1839, but not of Lamarck, 1819. 

 Cardita (laticostata) Sowerby,' 1832. 



Guaymas, Mexico, and south to Panama and Guayaquil. 



This shell has the asjwct of C. floridana, but the hinge is desti- 

 tute of lateral teeth, unless we regard the hmular pustule as a 

 tooth. C. tricolor Sowerby, 1832, is a color variety, and C. 

 angisulcata Reeve, 1843, has been claimed by Tryon, 1872, to be 

 only a variety with Hatter ribs and narrower channels. Cardita 

 turgida Valenciennes, 1846, not Lamarck, 1819, is synonymous, 

 according lo Carpenter. 



Cardita (Carditameral affinis Sowerby. IS,"!!. 



^largarita Hay on the west coast of Ixiwer California, the Gulf 

 of California, and southward to Panama. 



Ijarge, elongate, with small cardinal teeth; the norlheni sijeci. 



' Not Cardita laticostata Puscb, 1837. 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHLi. 707 



mens darker colored and larger, forming the variety named Lazaria 

 caiifornka by Deshayes in 1852. The ribbing is relatively 

 stronger in the young, and in the adult is often obsolete anteriorly. 

 The animals adhere by a strong byssus and, when crowded, the 

 anterior end is arcuate and attenuated ; but when growing freely 

 this is much less marked. A specimen has been figured by Reeve 

 for C. pectunculus Brug. 

 Cardita (Carditamera) radiata Sowerby, 1852. 



Punta Arenas, Costa Rica, to Panama Bay and Guayaquil, in 6 

 to 12 fathoms. 



Very similar to C. affinis, but with a very different hinge and 

 more checkered coloration. The lunule is also larger and wider 

 than in that species. C. arcella Valenciennes, 1846, figured on 

 the plates of the Voyage of the Vemis, but never described, may, 

 perhaps, have been intended for this species. 

 Cardita (Carditamera) subquadrata Carpenter, 1865. 



Skidegate Channel, Queen Charlotte Islands, in 20 fathoms, 

 Newcombe ; Straits of Fuca and southward to the Santa Barbara 

 Channel and Todos Santos Bay, Lower California. 



Small, solid, subquadrate, speckled with brown. The soft parts 

 are yellow with brown spots on the mantle edge, 

 Cardita (Glans) sulcosa Call. 1902. 



Panama Bay, in 1 8 to 30 fathoms, sand ; U. S. Fish Commission 

 steamer " Albatross." 



Small, quadrate, variegated in color, with a deep sulcus in the 

 posterior end which emarginates the border of the sheD. 

 Cardita (Glans) naviformis Reeve, 1843. 



Valparaiso, Chile, in 25 fathoms, sandy mud, Cuming. 



Small, rectangular, very inequilateral, the beaks almost terminal, 

 the posterior end squarely truncate, with 12-15 scaly ribs. 

 Venericardia crassicostata Sowerby, 1825. 



Gulf of California and southward to the Galapagos Islands. 



This fine, variably colored species is Cardita flammea Michelin, 

 1830, C. tumida and varia of Broderip, 1832. The differences are 

 merely of color, the form being very uniform. The Cardita 

 crassicosta of Lamarck is a typical Cardita, but if the name given 

 by Sowerby in the Tankerville catalogue be thought too close, 

 Michelin's name must be adojited. 




708 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Nov., 



Venerioardia Cuvieri Broderip, 1832. 



Gulf of Fonseca, iu 11 fathoms, 7 miles off shore, Cuming; 

 and south to Panama. 



C. michelini Valenciennes, 1846, is synonymous. This fine 

 species with heavy crenate ribs can hardly be mistaken for any 

 other. It appears to be exceptionally rare. 



Venerioardia iCyclocardiai spuroa Sowerby, li>32. 



Iquique, Peru, and southward to the west coast of Patagonia, 

 iu 61 fathoms, bottom temperature 54° F. 



An inflated I'otund species with about 20 narrow beaded ribs, 

 with wider interspaces and covered with an olivaceous gray perios- 

 tracuni. 



Venerioardia (Cyclocardia) velutina Smith, ISSI. 



Port Rosario and Wolsey anchorage, 17 to 30 fathoms, sand and 

 rock, Smith ; west coast of Patagonia and Magellan Straits, in 77 

 to 369 fathoms, mud, bottom temperature 46° to 48° F. ; U. S. 

 Fish Commission steamer "Albatross." 



Much like Y. spurca, but a thinner and lighter shell more deli- 

 cately sculptured, with a larger and longer lunule and a very much 

 more delicate hinge. It has about 20 ribs. 



Venerioardia (Cyolooardial oompressa Reeve, 1S43. 



Valparaiso, Chile; Portland Bay, West Patagonia, and in 20 

 fathoms, stony and shelly bottom, Boija Bay, Smith. 



I have not seen this species, but from the figures it must be close 

 to Ciould's V. procera, and if the species extends in the cold water 

 on both coasts of the southern part of South America, as some 

 other.< do, they may be identical, and iu that ca.se Reeve's name 

 has precedence. 



Venerioardia (Cyclooardia) barbarensis Stearns, 1890. 



Station 2,840, in the Santa Barbara Channel, in green mud, at 

 the depth of 276 fathoms, and at Station 2,909, in 20-5 fathoms, 

 bottom temperature 45.2° F. ; XJ. S. Fish Commissiou steamer 

 " Albatross." 



- Shell very thin and delicate, with about twenty low ribs, slightly 

 granular iu the young and becoming obsolete distally in the adult, 

 the lunule small and obscure. 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. (09 



Venerioardia (Cyolocardia) ventrioosa Gould, 1850. 



Puget Sound, U. S. Exploring Expedition ; Vancouver Island 

 (Newcombe), and southward to Los Coronados Islands off Lower 

 California, living in 31 to 252 fathoms, soft bottom, temperature 

 43 2° to 58° F. 



A small, plump, rounded species, with 20-21 low, broad, radial 

 ribs, with shallow narrower interspaces, crossed by Hattish narrow 

 concentric ridges, recalling basket-work, and covered by a gray or 

 yellowish -brown velvety periostracum, the hairs of which are 

 disposed in radial lines. Gould's types comprised two species, of 

 which one which he figured is selected to carry his name. The other, 

 represented by a single specimen, was unfortunately figured as his 

 type in Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XIII, Plate XVI, figs. 5 and 

 6, in 1890. It was not until this revision was undertaken that the 

 discrepancy was observed. Gould's diagnosis refers parljy to each 

 species. 

 Venerioardia (ventrioosa var.?) Gouldii Ball. 



Station 2,923, in 822 fathoms, mud, off San Diego, Cal., bottom 

 temperature 39° F. ; U. S. Fish Commission steamer " Albatross." 



Shell ovate, subcompressed, with 23 ribs, sculpture sinnlar to 

 that of V. ventricosa but feebler, with concentric ridges only in 

 front of the low beaks, and the color paler, the lunule much 

 smaller, and the lunular cardinals thin and feeble. The animal 

 was alive when dredged and appears, from the dried remains, to 

 have had a much smaller foot than V. ventricosa. 

 Venerioardia (Cyolocardia) stearnsii Dall, 1902. 



Puget Sound, with V. ventricosa, U. S. Exploring Expedition 

 under Wilkes. 



Shell short, plump, strong, with very high prosogyrate beaks 

 and about 19 strong, rudely nodulous radial ribs with narrower 

 interspaces and a dark-brown pilose periostracum. It has been 

 figured as mentioned under V. ventricosa, having been erroneously 

 taken as the type of that species by the writer. It .is a much 

 shorter and higher shell with a very small deeply impressed luimle 

 and strong hinge, in which the lunular pustule in the left valve is 

 conspicuous. 



Venerioardia (Cyolooardia) monilioosta Gabb, 1861. 

 Pleistocene of Santa Barbara, Cal., Jewett. 

 This resembles V. ventricosa Gould, but is more compressed, very 




710 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADESIY OF [Nov. , 



much more equilateral, ami lias the luuule aud Ihe interspaces 

 between the ribs deeper, and the latter more channeled. It has 

 17-18 ribs crossed by rounded concentric ridges with the radial 

 channels sharply cross-striated. There are also marked differences 

 in the hinge, which is much more delicate than in V. ventrieosa. 

 It has not yet been reported living, but is noted here because it has 

 been united with some of the recent species by Gabb and Cooper. 



Venerioardia (Cyclooardia) incisa fall, 1902. 



Aleutian region, from Unalashka to the Semidi Islands, in (> to 75 

 fathoms, sand or mud, Dall. 



Shell small, with a j)olished yellowish-olive periostracum, with 

 18-20 flat radial ribs separated by linear incised sulci, and crossed 

 by similar concentric sulci ; interior white, often with a yellow flush 

 in the cavity of the valves. 

 Tenericardia (Cyclooardia) alaskana Dall. 



Arctic Ocean, north of Bering Strait, from Point Barrow south 

 to the Strait and Bering Sea, the south coast of the Okhotsk Sea, 

 the Aleutian Islands, and eastward and southward along the Alaskan 

 coast as far as the harbor of Sitka, in deptlis var}'iiig from 7 to 

 313 fathoms, with a bottom temperature from 35° to 4G.2° F. 

 Also North Japan, in 4-7 fathoms 



This species is that which from the Pacific has usually been 

 named V. horealk Conrad, and I can only ascribe the long accept- 

 ance of this determination, made by Dr. Carpenter, to the absence 

 of a good series of the Eastern shell. After comparing them no 

 one can hesitate to separate them specifically. TliL're is a distance 

 of several tiiou-sand miles between their nearest points of approacii 

 to each other in range, as far as known. lu a general way, until 

 Dr. Stearns looked into the matter in 1890, all the Pacific Cy- 

 clocardias were lumped together under the name of horealk Conrad. 



The present species is ovate, compressed, with 23-25 uniform and 

 elegant radial ribs with narrower interspaces, distinct to the margin 

 of the shell and covered witli a dark yellow-brown velvety perios- 

 tracum, the hairs in clo.«e radial lines. The ribs are slightly granu- 

 lar near the low beaks; the lunulc narrow and long. The hinge is 

 solid, with the right anterior and posterior cardinals nearly obso- 

 lete ; the interior is chalky wJiite and is figured in the Proc. U. S. 

 Nat. Mus., XIII, PI. XVI, fig. 8, under the name of C borealU. 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 711 



It attains a height of 35, a length of 39, and a diameter of 

 16 mm. The animal is vi^^parous and incubates an enormous 

 number of young shells until the adult sculpture is fairly iuiliated. 

 The brood is fully ripe in August in the Arctic 8ea, and about June 

 1 in the Aleutian Islands. The variability of the shell is chiefly in 

 outline, some specimens being longer than others. 



Venerioardia (Cyclooardia) rudis Gray, 1839. 



Off the Sea Horse Islands, between Point Barrow and ley Cape, 

 in 23 fathoms, E. E. Smith ; south through Bering Strait and Sea, 

 among the Aleutian Islands, and eastward to Kadiak, in 10 to 60 

 fathoms, bottom temperature 35° to 45° F., Dall. 



Shell squarish, compressed, with high, almost posterior beaks; 

 the lunular region deeply indented ; the hinge broad and massive ; 

 the interior white or more or less tinted with livid purple; sculpture 

 of 12-1(5 low radial ribs, distally obsolete, with narrower .shallow 

 interspaces, with no granulations, covered by a smooth horny brown 

 periostracum, often rude and eroded; height 29, length 31, diame- 

 ter 16 mm. 



Gray, in his description of the shells of Beechey's voyage to the 

 Pacific and Bering Strait, cites Arcturus rudis Humphrey, MS., 

 as a synonym of the Pacific shells which he identifies with Cardita 

 borealls Conrad. As this is the only name associiited v;ith the 

 Bering Strait shells except borealls, and it is evident that Gray 

 recognized only one species among them, I have revived the name 

 for the ruder form of the two known to inhabit that region. In 

 well-developed specimens the hinge plate is relatively almost as 

 broad and heavy as in F. planicosta Lam. It is easily distin- 

 guished from V. alaskana by the fewer ribs, smooth periostracum, 

 and prominent beaks with the resulting broad hinge plate. 



Venerioardia (Miodon) prolongatus Carpenter, 18G1. 



Middleton Island, Alaska, in Lat. 59° 35' N., in 12 fathoms, 

 gravel, and south to iSTeeah Bay at the entrance to the Straits of 

 Fuca. 



A small, elevated shell, of pale gray color, .ind very much the . 

 sculpture of V. incisa. It is notable for its prominent beaks and 

 oblique form and was figured in the Proc. U. S. Nat. Mm., XIII, 

 PI. XVI, figs. 7 and 9, in 1890. Like the other species, it is 

 viviparous. 




712 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [NoV., 



Calyptogena pacifica r>aU, 1891. 



Clareuce Strait, Alaska, in 322 fathoms, muddy bottom, tem- 

 perature 42.4° F. ; U. 8. Fish Commission steamer " Albatross." 

 Also fossil in the Pliocene of Los Angeles, Cal. 



An oblong, heavy, dull and chalky shell with no radial scidpture 

 and with a grayish-green periostracum over a nearly smooth 

 surface. 



Milneria minima Ball, 1871. 



ilouterey, Cal., south to Cerros Island, Lower California, usually 

 nestling on the backs of the shells of Haliotis. 



Originally described as Ceropsis minima, the generic name being 

 preoccupied, was changed to Milneria in 1881. A minute, tra- 

 pezoidal white shell, of which the females have a dome-shaped 

 indentation on the ventral surface lined and closed by an extension 

 of the mantle, in which the young are incubated. It is figured 

 in Proe. U. S. Nat. J/(«., Ylil, PI. XXIV, figs. 4 to 7, and also 

 in Fischer's J/anua/. 



Carditella pallida E. A. Smith, 1891. 



Port Ro.<urio, Western Patagonia, in 2 to 30 fathoms. 



A small fau-shaiied whitish shell with an internal resilium and 

 12 to 15 strong radial ribs. There is a .small external ligament. 



Carditella semen Reeve, 1813. 



Off ]\rexillones, Atacama Desert, Bolivia, in three fathoms, 

 Cuming. 



Ovate, olive-brown, with flatti^h ribs, very minute. 



Carditella tegulata Reeve, 1843. 



^'alj)arai.■^o, Chile, in 2.") fathoms, Cuming. 



Said by Smith to differ from C. pallida by being more inequi- 

 lateral, less triangular and litts ouly twelve ribs. It is certainly 

 very closel\' allied. 



Carditopsis flabellum Reeve, 1S43. 



\'alparai.<o, Chile, Cuming ; and the western part of the Straits 

 of Magellan, in (jl fathoms, bottom temperature 47.9°; U. S. Fish 

 Commission steamer " Albatross." 



Differs from C. pallida by the greater delicacy of the lateral 

 teeth, a larger resilium, and the absence of any external ligament, 

 according to Smith. 




1902.] natural sciences of philadelphia. 713 



Notes. 



Cardita nodulosa Lamarck is a Japanese species, but on Valen- 

 ciennes' plates of the Voyage of the Venus, 1846, according lo 

 Carpenter, a West American species, probably G. affinis Sowerby, 

 1832, is so named by Valenciennes. In this citation and Carpen- 

 ter's reprint by the Smithsonian Institution the name is misprinted 

 modulosa, both in text and index. In Carpenter's Report to the 

 British Association, 1864, p. 287, a, " Cardita inerassatus VieiHet " 

 is cited from the Proceedings of the Zoological Soc'ietij for 18-52, p. 

 157. No such species occurs in the locality mentioned, or any- 

 where in the P. Z. S., or elsewhere that I have been able to 

 discover. It is, perhaps, a case of misplacement of an index slip 

 in the original MS. C. incrassata Conrad is said to be a variety 

 of C. antiquata, and is not West American. 



Descriptions of New Species. 

 Venerioardia (Cyolocardia) armilla u. sp. 



Shell small, rounded, moderately inflated, nearly equilateral, 

 white with a pale brownish periostracum ; sculjiture of from 17 to 

 21 well-marked, rounded ribs with subequal interspaces ; these ribs 

 are beaded with rounded or ovate nodules and continue to the ven- 

 tral margin of the valves, the interspaces are conspicuously cross- 

 striated; beaks full, elevated, proaogyrate, with a small, slightly 

 impressed smooth cordate lunule and very narrow escutcheon ; inner 

 margins strongly crenate. Height 9, length 8, diameter 6 mm. 



U. S. Fish Commission stations 2,399, 2,400 and 2,407, in the 

 northern pai-t of the Gulf of Mexico between the Mississippi delta 

 and Cedar Keys, in 24 to 196 fathoms, bottom temperature 51° to 

 66° F. U. S. Nat. Mus., No. 93,370. 

 Venericardia (Cyclocardia) moniliata n. sp. 



Shell small, rounded, moderately inflated, nearly equilateral, 

 white, with 20 to 24 radial narrow ribs with wider, cross-striated 

 interspaces; the ribs are sculptured with fine, small, sharp, close-set 

 tubercles, the beaks small, nearly erect, the lunule lanceolate and 

 smooth, the escutcheon similar but longer; internal margins 

 minutely crenate; there is a distinct lateral and socket in each 

 valve, the anterior lateral being in the left valve. Height and 

 length 6.5, diameter 4 mm. 




714 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF i NoV. , 



Off Rio .laneiro, Brazil, in 59 fathoms, bottom temperature 

 57° F. U. S. Nat. Mus., No. 96,132. 

 Venericardia (Cyclocardia) Gouldii n. sp. 



Shell thiu, ovate, inequilateral, moderately inflated with about 

 23 low, broad, rounded ribs with much narrower shallow interspaces, 

 the anterior ribs slightly crenulated by fine transverse ridges, the 

 ribs behind the umbones nearly smooth, covered b}' a yellowish - 

 brown periostracum; lunule very small and impressed, escutcheon 

 linear; inner margin crenulated below, hinge plate delicate, nar- 

 row, without marked laterals. Height 13.5, length 16.5, diame- 

 ter 8 mm., the beaks somewhat eroded. 



This species may possibly be a variety of V. ventrieosa, corre- 

 sponding in its relation to that species with V. novanglim Morse, in 

 its relation to V. horealis. But the probabilities are against it. 

 The measurements of the two most related and geographically most 

 adjacent forms are as follows : 



V. ventrieosa, height 17.5, length 19, diameter 15.5 mm. 



V. stearmii, height 14.5, length 13.5, diameter 11 mm. 



Only one, a li\'ing specimen, of V. Gouldii was obtained at a 

 depth of 822 fathoms, off San Diego, Cal. U. S. Nat. Mus., No. 

 109,270. 



Venericardia (Cyclooardia) incisa n. sp. 



Shell small, polished, with a smooth lively olive-green perios- 

 tracum over 18 to 20 flat radial ribs separated by linear incised 

 sulci and crossed by similar concentric sulci, about as distant as 

 the ribs are wide, lunule almost obsolete, no escutcheon visible ; 

 beaks moderately high, somewhat anterior ; hinge delicate, internal 

 margins strongly crenate ; siphonal end of the valves usually over- 

 grown by a commensal minute hydroid; height 10, length 9.5, 

 diameter 5.3 mm. 



Numerous specimens were obtained at different localities. The 

 types were compared with the Carditas in most of the Museums of 

 Northern Europe and appeared distinct. Type from Uualashka 

 in 16 fathoms. U. S. Nat. Mus., No. 109,267. " 



Venericardia (Cyclooardia) stearnsii Doll. 



Venericardia ventrieosa Gould, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XIII, \t. 216, 

 1800, ex parte; ami PI. XVI, figs. 5, 6. 



Puget Sound. " ' '.' 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 715 



Venerioardia (Cyolocardia) alaskana Ball. 



Venericardia borealis Conrad, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mns. XIII, p. 218, 

 1890, ex parte ; and PL XVI. fig. 8. 



Bering Sea. 



Cardita (Glans) sulcosa n. sp. 



Shell small, trapezoidal, with small elevated prosogyrate beaks, 

 the lunule small and deeply impressed, escutcheon linear; from 

 the beaks a wide and shallow sulcus extends to the lower posterior 

 margin which it distinctly emargiuales; sculpture of about 23 flat- 

 topped ribs with much narrower channeled interspaces ; the ribs 

 are crossed by concentric elevated ridge.'*, thus producing annulalions 

 which are more conspicuous on the sides than at the top of the ribs ; 

 the coloration is of dark -brown, red -brown and white, more or less 

 articulated on the ribs ; interior white, the margins strongly crenu- 

 lated. Height 7.5, length 8.5, diameter 6.5 mm. 



The only form with which this might be confused is the young 

 of C. cuvieri, which is less quadrate and has coarser sculpture and 

 fewer ribs. 



Bibliography. 



For the majority of the citations in the text, reference may be had to 

 the bibliographical list in the synopsis of the Lucinacea, P)'oc. U. S. 

 Nat. Muwum, XXIII, pp. 781-784, but for those especially important for 

 the Carditacea the following list is oifered : 



179a. Bruguieke, Encyclopedic Methodique, I, p. 401. 



1801. Lamarck, Systeme des Animaux sans Vert^bres, p. 123. 



1807. Link, Beschrcibung der Rostock Sammlung, p. 153. 



1834. Blainville, Dictionnaire des Sciences Naturelles, XXXII, p. 



326. 

 1832. Broderip, Proceedings of the Zoological Society of London, pp. 



55-56. 

 1832. SowERBY, Proceedings of the Zoological Society of London, pp. 



194-195. 



1838. Conrad, Fossils of the Medial Tertiary, p. 11. 



18.39. Anton, Verzeichniss der Couchyliensammlung, p. 10. 



1839. Gray, Zoology of Beechey's Voyage to the Pacific, Mollusca, p. 



152. 



1840. Gray, Synopsis of the Contents of the British Museum. 



1841. Conrad, American Journal of Science, XLI, p. 347. 

 1843. Reeve, Conchologica Iconica, I, Monograph of Cardita. 

 1845. Conrad, Fossils of the Medial Tertiary, p. 74. 



1847. Gray, Proceedings of the Zoological Society of London, p. 194. 



1852. Deshayes, Proceedings of the Zoological Society of London, pp. 



100-103. 



1853. MoRCH, Catalogus Conchyliorum .... comes de Yoldi, II, pp. 



37-8. 



1854. Gray, Annals and Magazine of Natural History, XIV, p. 23. 

 1857. H. AND A. Adams, Genera of Recent Mollusca, II, pp. 486-488 




716 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [NoV., 



1863. Conrad, Proceedings Academy of Nat. Sciences of Philadelphia 



for 1862, p. 578. 



1864. Carpenter, Supplementary Report to the British Association, 



1863, p. 643 ; and Annals and Magazine of Nat. History, Sd 

 series, XIV, p. 434. 



1866. CoNR.^D, Checklist of Eocene Fossils of North America, p. 5. 



1867. Conrad, American Journal of Conchology, III, pp. 13, 191. 



1869. Morse, Annual Report Peahody Academy of Sciences, Salem, 



Mass., p. 76. 



1870. Sandberger, Land und Siisswasser Conchylien der Vorwelt, p. 



35. 



1871. Dall, American Journal of Conchologj', VII, p. 153. 



1873. Tryon, Proceedings of Academy of Natural Sciences of Phila- 

 delphia, pp. 349-358. 



1881. Dall, American Naturalist, p. 718. 



1881. E. A. Smith, Proceedings of the Zoological Society of London, 

 p. 42. 



1885. Dall, Proceedinss U. S. National Museum, VIII, p. 549. 



1885. DeGeegorio, Bollettino Societa Malacologicaltaliano, X, p. 153. 



1890. Stearns, Proceedings U. S. Nat. Museum, XIII, pp. 314-320. 



1891. Dall, Proceedings U. S. Nat. Museum, XIV, p. 189. 

 1893. SowKRBY, Marine Shells of South Africa, p. 63. 



1895. Dall, Proceedings U. S. Nat. Museum, XVII, p. 713. 



1896. Dall, State University of Iowa, Natural History Bulletin, II, p. 



16. 



1896. Bernard, Bulletin Musde d'Histoire Naturelle a Paris, IL 



1897. Bernard, Journal de Conchyliologie, XLIV, p. 197. 

 1897. Mayer Eymar, Journal de Conchyliologie, XLIV, p. 367. 

 1899. BOEHM, Verhandlung. d. deutschen geol. Gesellschaft, Vol.50, p. 



37. 

 1899. Sacco, Bollettino dei Musei de Zoologia, Universita di Torino, 

 XIV, No. 349, pp. 111-113 (May); and Moll, dei terrene terziare 

 del Piemonte e della Liguria, XXVII, pp. 5-33 (September). 




1902.] NATUEAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 717 



NOTES ON THE OKTHOPTERA OF NEW MEXICO AND WESTERN TEXAS 

 BY JAMES A. G. EEHN. 



The great part of the material on which this study is based was 

 collected for the Academy in the spring and early summer of 1902 

 by !Mr. H. L. Viereck and the author. All specimens from Ysleta 

 and El Paso, Tex., and Alamogordo, Cloudcroft and HighrolJs, 

 N. M., were thus collected. A general geographical and biotic 

 study of the localities in the Sacramento mountain region, New 

 Mexico, will be published later in these Proceedings. 



Specimens belonging to the United Slates National Museum were 

 examined in conjunction with the Academy material, and such 

 specimens are designated in this paper by the initials of that insti- 

 tution. The loan of this material was secured through the kind- 

 ness of Mr. ^Y. H. Ashmead. The fine recent work by Messrs. 

 Scudder and CockerelP on the Orthoptera of New Mexico has 

 proven of great value in studying this collection. 



Family BLATTID^. 

 HomoBOgamia subdiaphana Scudder. 



Ten males, one female. 



Alamogordo, Otero county, N. ]M. April 11, May 5 and June 

 6 and 7, 1902. 



Highrolls, Otero county, N. ^M. June 8, 1902. 



As (he female of this species has not been described I append a 

 short description : 



Form ovate, the abdomen very broad. Pronotum similar to that 

 of the male in general outline. Supraanal plate transverse, the 

 posterior margin rounded and centrally emargiuate. 



General color wood-brown, edged on the pro- and mesonotum 

 with ochraceous. Pro-, meso- and metanotum centrally ornamented 

 with blotches of ochraceous, the penultimate abdominal segment 

 bearing lateral blotches of the same tint. 



' Proc. Davenport Acad. ScL, IX, pp. 1-60, 1903. 




718 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Nov., 



ifeamirements. 



Total length, 11.5 mm. 



Length of pronotum, 4 " 



Width of pronotum, 6 " 



Width of abdomen, 8 " 



The first specimen of this species secured was taken while flitting 

 along a roadside through mesquite (Prosopis) and grease wood 

 (Larrea) brush. Several spet.-imens were subsequently taken near 

 the same spot, but the remainder were all taken at light. 



Family MANTID^. 

 Litaneutria minor (Scudder). 

 One immature specimen. 

 Alamogordo, Otero county, N. M. May 1, 1H02. 



Family PHASMID^. 

 Diapheromera sp. 



One immature specimen. 



Alamogordo, Otero county, N. M. April 23, 1902. ; 



Family ACRIDID.ffl. 

 Subfamily Acrydiinse. 

 Paratettix tolteous (Saussure). 

 Male aud female. 



Highrolls, Otero county, N. M. May 2!) and 31, 1902. 

 Tettigidea lateralis (Say). 

 One female. 



Sacramento mountains, N. M., 5,000 feet elevation. October 

 4, collected by C. H. T. Townsend (U. S. N. M.). 



Subfamily Aoridinse. 

 Opeia obscura (Thomas). 



Two females. 



Sacramento mountains, N. M., 6,000 feet elevation. October 2, 

 C. H. T. Towusend (U. S. N. M.). 

 Cordillacris= occipitalis (Thomas). 



One female. 



Alamogordo, Otero counly, N. M. Apnl 9, 1902. 



'For use of this namL- in )ilace vf Alp/ta Brunatr, see Rehn, Canad 

 Ent., XXXI II, p. 271. 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 719 



Orphulella salina Scudder. 



One female. 



Sacramento mountains, N. M. , 5,000 feet elevation. October 

 4, C. H. T. Townsend (U. S. N. M.). 



Gomphooerus olavatus Thomas. 

 One male. 

 Cloudcroft, Otero county, N. M. May 24, 1902. 



Psoloessa maoulipennia Scudder. 



Three males. 



Alamogordo, Otero county, N. M. May 8 and 30, ] 902. 



One male. 



La Cueva, Organ mountains. Donna Ana county, N. M., about 

 5,300 feel elevation. August 30, C. H. T. Townsend. 

 Psoloessa ferruginea Scudder. 



Two males. 



Alamogordo, Otero county, N. M. T^Iay 5 and 30, 1902. 



Stirapleura pusilla Scudder. 



Four males, eight females. 



Alamogordo, Otero county, N. M. April 14, 24 and 26, May 

 9 and 30, 1902. 



Highrolls, Otero county, N. M. June 3 and 11, 1902. 

 Stirapleura mescalero n. sp. 



Type; ?. 



Highrolls, Otero county, N. M. June 9, 1902. 



A.llied to S. tennicarina and pusilla Scudder, but differing fiom 

 the former in the non-sulcate frontal costa, the carinate vertex, 

 rectangulate fastigium and the shorter wings, and from Ihe latter 

 in the non-sulcate frontal costa, the carinate vertex, the sub- 

 trigonal lateral foveohe and (he shallower mesosternal lobes. 



Form rather heavily built. Head with the vertex slightly tumes- 

 cent and bearing a marked median carina ; fastigium subelliptical 

 and considerably excavated, the margins well raised and rectangu- 

 late anteriorly, the carina of the vertex being continued forward . 

 over the greater portion of the fastigium; lateral foveoloe sub- 

 trigonal, the antero-superior angle being subob.solete ; frontal costa 

 strongly constricted superiorly and also to a slight degree above the 

 ocellus, lateral margins expanding inferiorly and becoming obsolete, 

 the entire length plane and non-sulcate, the .section inferior to the 




720 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Nov., 



ocellus being rather heavily punctate; eyes subovate, but slightly 

 longer than the infraocular portion of the gente; antennoe not 

 equaling head and pronotum in length. Pronotum moderately 

 constricted mesially, the lateral carinse being considerably expanded 

 both anteriorly and posteriorly ; median carina distinct, cut very 

 slightly before the middle; posterior margin of the pronotum 

 obtuse-angulate, the apex well rounded; lateral lobes subequal in 

 Avidth, the lower margin sinuate anteriorly, the surface fineU' granu- 

 late. Tegmiua slightly exceeding the abdomen in length. Meso- 

 sternal lobes rather deep, considerably deeper than half the width 

 of the interspace. 



General color reddish-brown, the sides of the head, upper por- 

 tions of the lateral lobes of (he pronotum, pleurse and V markings 

 on the upper surface of the hind femora much darker in intensity 

 than the general upper surface. Lower surface pale yellowish. 

 Tegmina with traces of quadrate maculations in the distal half. 



Measurements. 



Length of head and body, 24.5 mm. 



Length of pronotum, 4 " 



Length of tegmina, 15.5 " 



Length of hind femora, 12.5 " 



Subfamily CEdipodinse. 

 Arphia teporata Scudder. 



Twenty-one males, nine females. 



Alamogordo, Otero county, X. ^I. April 30, 3Iay 4, .5, 6, 8, 

 9, 12 and 16, 1902. 



Highrolls, Otero county, N. M. May 29, June 2, 3, 12 and 

 13, l!)i)2. 

 EnooptolopUus costalis (Scudder). 



One male. 



Vslcta, El Paso county, Tex. April 2, 1902. 



Encoptolophus parvus Scudder. 



Twenty-four males, twenty-five females. 



Sacramento mountains, N. M., 6,500 feet elevation. C. Tf. T. 

 Townsend (U. S. X. M.). 



Hippisons oorallipes (Haldeman). 



Three males, four females, one immature. 



Highrolls, Otero county, X. M. May 29, June 1 and 2, 1 902. 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 721 



Hippiscus zapotecus (Saussure). 



One male, three females. 



Highrolls, Otero county, N. M. June il, 1902. 

 This species is very closely related to H. corallipes and quite 

 difficult to separate. 



Hippiscus pumilus Scudder. 



Fourteen males, one female. 



Cloudcroft, Otero county, N. M. May 21, 22, 23 and 24, 1902. 



Only previous New ^Mexican record from Taos Valley, northern 

 New Mexico. 

 Tropidolophus formosus (Say). 



One female. 



Lunas Well, Sacramento moimtains, N. ]M. September 29, C 

 H. T. Towuseud (U. S. N. M.). 

 Dissosteira Carolina (Linnaus). 



One male, two females. 



Sacramento mountains, N. M., 5,000-6,500 feet elevation^ 

 October 3 ami 4, C. H. T. Townsend (U. S. N. M.). 



Lactista boscanus ». sp. 



Type ; female. 



Ysleta, El Paso county, Tex. AprH 2, 1902. 



Apparently allied to L. pellepidm Saussure, but differing in the 

 lineato-rugose pronotura, the acute-angulate posterior process of the 

 prouotum, and in the hyaline and unclouded margin of the apex 

 of the wing. 



General form deep, compressed. Head with the fastigium broad 

 and very shallow, the margins but slightly elevated, anteriorly trun- 

 cate ; vertex rugose and bearing a central carina, which extends a 

 considerable distance forward ou the fastigium ; frontal costa rather 

 broad, expanded above the ocellus, non-sulcate, hea\nly punctate ; 

 eyes ovate, about equal to the infraocular portion of the gense. Pro- 

 uotum with the metazone liueato-rugose, the lateral lobes with com- 

 paratively slight rugosities; luediau carina low, most elevated ou 

 the prozona, the transverse sulcus well marked ; posterior angle 

 acute, the margin subconcave; posterior angle of the lateral lobes 

 rotuudate. Tegmina elongate, the costal field strongly developed 

 basally. Posterior femora robust, the lower carina well developed 

 but not strongly arched ; posterior tibise shorter than the femora. 

 4'i 




722 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Nov. , 



General color dull ashy-browu, dirty yellowish beneath; limbs 

 and eyes s^uffused with reddish brown; antenna^ dull brownish, finely 

 punctate with a darker tint. Tegmina with faint traces of basal, 

 median and pre-apical bands. Wings with the disk pale yellowish, 

 the fuscous band rather broad, involving the posterior margin and 

 sending out a rather broad but short humeral spur; apex hyaline, 

 the nervures fuscous, the margins unclouded except the costal por- 

 tion. Posterior tibire grayish-blue, with a dull glaucous pre-geni- 

 cular annulus ; spines basally glaucous, terminally black. 



Measuremeiits. 



Length of head aud body, 21 mm. 



Length of prouotum, 6 " 



Length of tegmina, 22 " 



Length of hind femora, 12.5 " 



Mestobregma asperum (Scudder). 



Twenty-four males, twenty-tive females. 

 4 Sacramento mountains, N. M., 6,500 feet elevation. October, 

 C. H. T. Townsend (U. S. N. M.).' 

 Trimerotropis melanoptera McNeill. 



Two mak>. 



Sacramento mountains, N. M. , 6, 500 feet elevation. October 3, 

 C. H. T. Townsend (U. S. X. M.;. 



Only previous record is the type locality — Silver City (Bruner). 



Trimerotropis vinonlata Scudder. 



Seventy-five males, fifty females. 



Sacramento mountains, X. M., 6,000-6,500 feet elevation. 

 October 2 and 3, C. H. T. Townsend (U. S. N. M.). 



Alamogordo, Otero county, X. M. April 9-30, May 1-16, 

 June 7 and 9, 1902. 



Ilighrolls. Otero county, X. M. May 29. 31, June 2 and 11, 

 1902. 



Cloudcroft, Otero county, X. M. June 18, 1902. 



El Paso, Te.K. April 5 and 6, 1902. 

 Circotettiz undulatus (Thomas). 



Six males, twenty-four females. 



Cloudcroft, Otero county, X. 'SL June 16-20, 1902. 



Beulab, San Miguel county, X. M. August 17, 1901. Dr. 

 Henry Skinner. 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 723 



Heliastus aridus (Bruner). 



Forty-one males, nineteen females. 



Alamogordo, Otero county, N. M. April lO-Way 16, 1902. 



Highrolls, Otero county, N. M. May 31, 1902. 



Ysleta, El Paso county, Tex. April 2, 1902. 



This species exhibits an enormous range of color variation, vary- 

 ing from an extreme rusty form with a bluish cast to the tegmina, 

 to a dull bluish-black form with an ashy suffusion on the head. 

 Some specimens have the hind femora, wings and pronotum with 

 strong maculations, while others are almost immaculate. 



When at rest on the Larrea. and mesquite plains this species is 

 very hard to detect, and is frequently unnoticed imtil it is almost 

 trampled under foot. The habitat of this species appears to be a 

 purely desert one. 

 Braohystola magna (Girard). 



One male, two females. 



Organ mountains. Donna Ana county, N. M. September 27, 

 C. H. T. Townsend (U. S. N. M.). 



Sacramento mountains, N. M., 6,500 feet elevation. October 

 3, C. H. T. Townsend (U. S. N. M.). 

 Phrynotettix' tshivavensis (Haldeman). 



One male and one female. 



Alamogordo, Otero county, N. M. May 13, 1902. 



El Paso, Tex. March 31, 1902. 



Subfamily Locustinse. 

 Campylacantha vegana Scudder and Cockerell. 



One female. 



Las Vegas, N. M. August, T. D. A. Cockerell. 



^oloplus elegans Scudder. 



One male and one female. 



Mesilla valley. Donna Ana county, N. M. October 8, C. H. 

 T. Townsend (U. S. N. M.). 



.Soloplus crassus Scudder. 



One female. 



White Sands, between the Sacramento and San Andreas moun- 

 tains, N. M. September 30, C. H. T. Townsend (U. S. N. M.). 



' For use of this name in place of Maldemanella see Rehn, Proe. Acad. 

 Nat. Set. Phila., 1902, p. 595. 




724 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Nov., 



Melanoplus lakinus (Scudder). 



One male. 



Sacramento mountains, N. M., 6,500 feet elevation. October 

 3, C. H. T. Townsend (U. S. N. M.). 

 Melanoplus atlanis (Riley). 



Two males, three females. 



Sacramento mountains, N. M., 6,500 feet elevation. October 



3, C. H. T. Townsend (U. S. N. M.). 

 Melanoplus altitudinum (Scudder). 



Three females. 



Qoudcroft, Otero county, N. M. May 22 and 26, June 17, 

 1902. 

 Melanoplus sapellanus .'Scudder. 



One female. 



Top of Las Vegas range, San Miguel county, N. M. June 28, 

 1902, H. L. Viereck. 

 Melanoplus femur-rubrum (DeGeer). 



Two males, six females. 



Sacramento mountains, N. M., 5,000 feet elevation. October 



4, C. H. T. Townsend (U. S. N. M.). 

 Melanoplus oorpulentus Scudder. 



Fourteen niale.s, ten females. 



Sacramento mountains, jS'. M., 6,500 feet elevation. October 2 

 and 3, C. H. T. Townsend (U. S. N. M.). 



On comparison with ^lexican specimens in the collection of the 

 Academy these prove indistinguishable. 

 Melanoplus bivittatus (Say). 



Two females. 



Sacramento mountains, X. M., 6,500 feet elevation. October 3, 

 C. H. T. Townsend (U. S. N. M.). 



Melanoplus thomasi Scudder. 



Two males, five females. 



Sacramento mountains, N. M., 5,000 feet elevation. October 

 4, C. H. T. Townsend (U. S. N. M.). 



This species was recorded from Tularosa only by Scudder and 

 Cockerell (/Voc. Davenport Acad. Sci. , IX, p. 51), and the locality 

 given above is probably not very far distant from Tularosa, which 

 latter lies about twenty miles to the north of Alamogordo. 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 725 



Saotylotam variegatam (Scudder). 

 One female. 



Lunas Well, Sacramento mountains, N. M. September 29, C. 

 H. T. Townsend (U. S. N. M.). 



The collection of the United States National Museum also con- 

 tains specimens from Ojo Caliente, Rio Arriba county, IS^. M., and 

 Huachuca, Cochise county, Ariz. 



On a comparison of this species with D. picfuni (Thomas), it will 

 be seen that practically the only important diagnostic character is 

 the shape of the tegmina. 

 a. — Tegmina elongate-ovate, at least twice as long as broad, 



pictum (Thomas). 

 aa. — -Tegmina ovate, not more than half as long again as broad, 



variegatum (Scudder). 



Family TBTTIGONID.ffi. 

 Ceuthophilus uniformis Scudder. 



One male and one female. 



Beulah, San Miguel county, N. M. July 10, 1902, T. D. A. 

 Cockerell. 



Ceuthophilus pallidus Thomas. 



Eighteen males, nineteen females. 



Cloudcroft, Otero county, N. M. May 21, 23 and 26, June 

 19, 1902. 



Udeopsylla viereoki n. sp. 



Type; male (?). 



Cloudcroft, Otero county, N. M. May 27, 1902, H. L. Viereck. 



Differing from both previously known species of the genus in the 

 smooth upper surface of the anterior tibiaa and the abbreviate 

 character of the posterior tibise, which latter are shorter than the 

 femora. This specimen was found dead and is rather badly mutil- 

 ated, the extremity of the abdomen, the palpi, the median limbs, 

 the labrum and clypeus, antenna and the apical joints of the tarsi 

 being badly damaged or gone. 



I take great pleasure in dedicJvHng this rather striking form to 

 my friend and fellow-worker, Mr. H. L. Viereck, to whose tireless 

 energy and perseverance the large entomological collection of the 

 Alamogordo and Cloudcroft regions is entirely due. 



General form heavy and obese. Head with the vertex bul very 




726 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [NoV. , 



slightly raised ; eyes subtrigonal, flat. Pronotum broad, the ante- 

 rior margin slightly emarginate centrally, truncate posteriorly. 

 Metanotum deep, exceeding the mesonotum in lateral depth. 

 Abdomen compressed, subcaiinate superiorly. Anterior femora 

 with a well-developed inferior median sulcus, the inner margin 

 bearing one large and two small sj)ines on the distal section ; tibiae 

 flat above, heavily punctate and unarmed, below subsulcate and 

 with three pair of spines, spurs four in number, the anterior external 

 one very short and blunt. Posterior femora stout, the lower sulcus 

 deep, the margins strongly beset with innumerable small teeth, the 

 internal margin bearing the greatest number ; tibiae slightly bowed, 

 the superior sui-face flat, with four to five pair of spines of the 

 first and a few irregularly scattered spines of the second order, 

 distal portion of the inferior surface with six recumbent spines, the 

 upper pair of spurs slightly the longer. 



General color ochraceous, suffused above with reddish-brown, the 

 segments with their posterior borders blackish. 



Meamtrements. 



Length of head and body (approximately), .... 23 mm. 



Length of pronotum, 9 " 



Breadth of pronotum 10.2 " 



Length of hind femur, 19 " 



Length of hind tibia 17 " 



Family GRYLLID^. 



Subfamily Gryllinse. 

 Gryllos integer Scudder. 



Four males, four females. 



HighroUs, Otero county, N. M. May 31, June 2, 11, 13, 1902. 



Gryllus alogas n. sp. 



Type: 9; Albuquerque, Bernalillo county, N. M., 1902. 

 Collected by T. D. A. Cockerell. 



Apparently allied to G. armatm Scudder,* but differing in the 

 shape of the anterior and lateral margins of the pronotum, and in 

 the different proportions of the calcaria of the hind tibiae, as well 

 as the coloration. No relationship exists with G. personatus 

 XJhler,' or with mexidxinus Saussure.' 



* Psyche, IX, p. 293. 



^Proc. Ent. Soc. Phila., II, p. 547. 



*Mm. Sci. ilex., Orthopt.. p. 402. 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 727 



Size rather small and form comparatively slender. Head mod- 

 erately large, slightly tumid, both on the occiput and genae ; vertex 

 declinate, broad and flattened ; eyes oval. Pronotum about once 

 and a half as broad as long, emarginate anteriorly, the posterior 

 border slightly arcuate; lateral margins tumid, surface obscurely 

 punctulate ; lateral lobes shallow, the anterior angle obtu.se, the 

 lower margin sloping upward and backward to t he rounded poste- 

 rior angle. Tegmina moderately long, not much more than twice as 

 long as the pronotum, the mediastinal view with three branches. 

 Anterior and median limbs rather slight, compressed. Posterior 

 femora moderately heavy; rather attenuate apically; tibias two- 

 thirds as long as the femora, armed with (5-8 spines on each margin, 

 the upper inner calcar distinctly shorter than the intermediate 

 one. Ovijwsitor reaching to the apex of the outstretched meta- 

 tarsus. 



General color blackish-brown, the infraocular portion of the 

 gense and the humeral angle of (he tegmina ochraeeous, the veins 

 of the mediastinal area being of the same color. Posterior femora 

 orange-red, becoming dull-brownish posteriorly. 



Measurements. 



Length of head and body, 17.5 mm. 



Length of pronotum, 4 " 



Length of tegmina, 9 " 



Length of hind femora, 11 " 



Length of ovipositor, 15 " 



Miogryllus lineatus (Seudder)? 



One immature male. 



Alamogordo, Otero county, N. M. April 25, 1902. 



This specimen is very questionably assigned to this species, and a 

 number of characters show considerable difference from the descrip- 

 tion. Considering the apparently immature condition of the speci- 

 men I ihiuk this the best course to adopt. 



Subfamily CEcanthinae. 

 (Ecanthus sp. 



One immature female. 



Alamogordo, Otero county, N. M. June 9, 1902. 



This species is in all probability undescribed and shows closest 

 relationship with CE. niveiis and augusiipennis. 




728 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [NoV., 



HYMENOPTEEA FROM SOUTHEBN CALIFORNIA AND NEW MEXICO, 

 WITH DESCRIPTIONS OF NEW SPECIES. 



BY H. VIERECK. 



This paper is tlie result of a study of material collected iu the 

 year 1901 aud received for ideatiiicalioa from Prof. Cockerell. 

 Unless otherwise staled, he is the collector of the specimens under 

 consideration. 



Helissodes montana Cress. 



Three ??, 10 to 12 mm. in length. The abdominal fascise 

 vary from ochreous to whitish. 



San Pedro, July 4, 11. 



Specimens ia the Coll. Am. Ent. Society represent the originals 

 only and are from " CJolorado " and "New Mexico" (Cresson 

 Coll.). . 



One cf, La Jolla, August, has the dorsum of thorax covered 

 with an ochraceous pubescence. The clypeus is all yellow, a black 

 dot on each side. 

 Diadasia rinconis opuntiae Ckll. (Det. CklL). 



San IVdro, July 27, at flowers of Opuniia. 



Diadasia australis Cress. 



One d', San Bernardino, July 6, on sunflower. Specimens in 

 Coll. Am. Ent. Society repre.?ent only " Colorado" and "Texas." 

 Nomada formula n. sp. 



Black, marked with yellow ; apex of wings cloudy ; raetatliorax 

 with a bare, satiny, triangular area. 



?. — Length 8 mm. Labrum closely indistinctly punctured. 

 Clypeus closely punctured, the yellow area above clypeus and the 

 yellow area.s on the sides of the face more distinctly" punctured, the 

 punctures a little wider apart. The black part of the head closely 

 distinctly punctured. Cheeks dullish, indistinctly sculptured. Head 

 covered with a fine silvery pubescence, not so heavy as to obscure any 

 characters. First joint of flagellum at least one-fourth longer than 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 729 



the second. Pronotum punctured on the anterior margin. Dorsu- 

 lum sub-opaque, closeh' punctured. Tubercles apparently impuuc- 

 tale. Tegulse with well-separated punctures. Mesopleurje punctured 

 much like dorsulum. Scutellum with a median longitudinal impres- 

 sion, covered with shallow punctures. The parts of the posterior face 

 of metathorax adjoining the area covered with a thin whitish ap- 

 pressed sort of pubescence. The rest of tlie thorax and the greater 

 part of the legs covered with pubescence similar to that on the 

 head. The pubescence on the inner sides of tlie tarsi of a pale 

 golden tint. Wings hj'aline, apical and marginal cell smoky, 

 stigma pale brown, nervures dark brown, transverse median ner- 

 vure interstitial. Abdomen fintily closely punctured, covered with 

 whitish pubescence in the same degree as the head and thorax, 

 apical dorsal segment silvery. 



Black; labrum, clypeus, base of mandibles, supraclypeal mark, 

 lateral face marks which border the eye extending nearly to the 

 top and over to the insertion of antennae, apical dot on scape, pro- 

 notum, tubercles, tegulse, a dot below, an almost rectangular mark 

 below this on the mesopleurie, a dot on scutellum at each corner of 

 sculellum, the scutellum, postscutellum, a spot on each side on the 

 under side of mesothorax, the fom- posterior coxse in front, an 

 apical mark on all femora, the tibi;e chiefly on the outside, the 

 tarsi in front, an almost even band bn the first segment separated 

 from the apex by a narrower brown band, second segment with an 

 emarginate band, third, fourth and fifth segments with regular 

 bands, yellow. Flagellum beneath light brown, above dark brown. 

 The four anterior legs with their coxae, femora and tibiae in part tes- 

 taceous to almost ferruginous. 



Type, Coll. Acad. Nat. Sci. Philadelphia. 



Type locality, San Pedro, Cal., July 11. 



One ?. This comes near ??iorfe.sto, but is distinguished at once 

 by the character in the diagnosis. Cotype, one ?, same place 

 and date as the type. 



Sphecodes mandibularis Cress. 



One ?, San Pedro, July 11 (T. D. A. (bckerell). 



Previously recorded from Texas (Belfrage); Ottawa, Can. 

 (Harrington) ; Carlinville, 111. (Robertson) ; Mesilla valley, 

 N. M. (Cockerell). 




730 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [NoV., 



CoUetes califorhious Prov. 



Two c?(?, La Jolla, August. 



Provanclier's descripliou is very brief, but this is doubtless the 

 species he had before him; a fuller descripliou is submitted. 



c?. — Length 8 mm. All of face below antennse hidden by a 

 long white pubescence. Above the autennse the face is closely 

 punctured, opaque, the pubescence sparser, yellowish. Cheeks 

 with whitish pubescence, space between eyes and base of mandibles 

 a little less than width of the latter at base, labrum polished, 

 divided into five ridges, the one in the middle broadesi, with a dent 

 near its base. First joint of flagellum apparently a little shorter 

 than the second. Dorsulum closely punctured, opaque, shiuy in front, 

 the punctures a little larger than those on top of head. Pubescence 

 on dorsum of thorax the same color as that on top of the head. 

 Mesopleurffi as closely punctured as possible without being confluent, 

 punctures about the same size as those on dorsulum, pubescence 

 white like on the cheeks. Disk of metathora.x divided into about 

 eight deep, shining, squan; pits, by narrow longitudinal ridges. En- 

 closed space on posterior face of metathorax not exactly smooth nor 

 highly polished, triangular in shape and wider at base than long. 

 The adjoining areas indistinctly sculptured, subopaque. Legs 

 covered with loose white hairs. Wings perfectly clear, the ner- 

 vures and stigma dark brown. First recurrent nervure received in 

 about the middle of the second submarginal cell, the same cell 

 about three-fourths as long on the radius as on the cubitus. Trans- 

 verse median nervure interstitial, curved out. Abdomen subopaque, 

 closely finely punctured. The first segment with loose hairs, those 

 on remaining segments sparser. All the segments, except the 

 apical, with an apical distinct fascia of appre.ssed pubescence. On 

 top of the abdomen the pubescence is pale yellowish, to the sides 

 whitish. The apical segment is covered with a fine appressed, 

 whitish pubescence. 



Black; spurs white, claws dark brown. 



The other specimen has the pube.scencc above, .whiter, and the 

 dent on the middle ridge of labrum continued into a longitudinal 

 fovea; otherwise identical. 



Ceratina dnpla Say. 



One 5, 5 mm. in length. Alpine Tavern, Mt. Ixiwe, August 12. 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 731 



Spllamena fozii Ckll. 



One 9, San Pedro, July 16 (W. P. and T. D. A. Cockerell). 



The only other record, that of the unique type, is Santa Fe, 

 N. M. (T." D. A. Cockerell). 



Stigmus fulvipes Fox. 



Three ? ? found burrowing in a sandbank at San Pedro, July 6 

 (W. P. and T. D. A. Cockerell). Only the unique type from 

 Los Angeles, Cal. {T>. W. CoquiUet), was heretofore known. 



Notogonia nigripennis oocidentalis n. subsp. 



5. — Length 16 mm. Differs from the typical form by the 

 smoother sculpture and short longitudinal impressed line on each 

 side of doi-sulum, by the duller and more finely sculptured scutel- 

 lum and by the medial longitudinal impression of the postscutellum. 

 The flagellum is approximately as long as head and thorax. The 

 flagellum of JV. cequalis is distinctly longer than the head and 

 thorax, measuring 10 mm. in the type (?) and consequently 

 2 mm. longer than length of head and thorax (8 mm.). 



The only specimen of N. nigripennis heretofore recorded is the 

 unique type in Coll. Am. Ent. Society, from " New York." This 

 is a most interesting find, and shows how little we know of the dis- 

 tribution of certain species. 



Euoerceris insignis Prov. 



Eucerceris insignis Prov. Add., Hym. Queb., p, 418, 1888 (^f not 9 )• 

 Cerceris provancheri D. T., Wien. Ent. Zeit., IX, 1890, p. 204. 



One cf , La JoUa, August, at flowers of Erigonum fasciculaium. 



It is evident from Provancher's description that he described a c? 



and not a 9. 



Cerceris oookerelli n. sp. 



Entire tegument strongly, more or less closely punctured. 



d'.— Length 7.5 mm. Clypeus dullish with small punctures and 

 large, close, somewhat indistinct punctures, the rest of the face 

 below the insertion of antennse with large, rather indistinct punc- 

 tures more separated than on clypeus, the spaces between the punc- 

 tures minutely punctate ; area in the middle of the face broad, flat 

 anteriorly, abruptly and decidedly keeled posteriorly between the 

 insertion of antennse, the face below antennse covered with a close, 

 fine, silvery pubescence and sparser longer hairs, head above the 

 antennse with strong, separated punctures, the space between them 




732 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Nov., 



polished. Space between posterior ocelli a little less ihau that 

 betweeu them and nearest eye margin, cheeks with deep separate 

 punctures, not as strong as on top of head, the space betweeu the 

 punctures rather opaque, minutely puncluied. The head and cheeks 

 with tine long hail's. First joint of the flagellum about one and a 

 half times as long as the second. Pronotum, dorsulura and scutel- 

 lum covered with large, distinct, separated punctures, the space sep- 

 arating them polished, postseutellum sparsely punctured, shining, 

 mesopleui-ae slrongly and coarsely punctured. Enclosed space of 

 metanolum triangular with longitudinal sulcse medially, |X)lished 

 transverse strise radiating to each side of anterior half of sulcus, the 

 rest of the metauotum deeply, almost confluently punctured and 

 shining, mesopleurae punctured, becoming impuuctate near the 

 suture ; from the base of the metapleurse rise two oblique raised 

 lines, joining to form an acute angle, the apex pointed forward; the 

 margins of the melapleune make this a triangle, with the base in- 

 curved anteriorly. Entire thorax pilose like the head around the 

 ocelli, legs ciliate and more or less distinctly covered with a fine 

 appressed pubescence. Wings subhyaline, nervures at base reddish, 

 nervures and stigma brown, apical cell especially iufuscated. 

 First segment of abdomen with a small polished triangular impres- 

 sion, abdomen dorsally uniformly sculptured, with deep separated 

 punctures, shining. Pygidial area practically oblong, strongly 

 margined, deeply jmnctured, shining, covered with sparse hairs. 

 The abdomen sericeous, all the dorsal segments distinctly pilose. 



Black ; base of mandibles, all of the face below the insertion of 

 antenna?, a short distance above bordering on the eyes, front of 

 scape, interrupted band ou pronotum, tegulaj, spot on mesopleurae, 

 two spcts on scutellum, postseutellum, apical third of femora, pos- 

 terior trochanters, tibia; except apical spot on posterior ones, first 

 joint of tarsi, two spots ou first dorsal segment almost united, a liand 

 on first dorsal segment almost united, a band on all the other dorsal 

 segments (except apical) narrow medially and lateral spots ou 

 ventral segment,s three, four and five, yellow. Flagellum beneath 

 orange, apical tarsal joints more or less testaceous. 



Related to C. in-iolita Cress. , from which it is distinguished l)y its 

 uniformly different sculpture. 



Type locality, La JoUa, Cal., August, 1901 (T. D. A. Cock- 

 erell). 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 733 



Type, Coll. Acad. Nat. Sci. Philadelphia. Cotype, one cf, same 

 place and date. 



Philanthus crabroniformis Sm. 



Philanthus crabroniformis Sm., Cat. Hym Brit. Mus., IV, 474, 



1856. c?. 

 Philanthus multimaculaius Cam., Biol. Cent. Am. Hym., II, 133, 



1801, g'. 

 Philanthus anna Dun., Ent. News, VIII. 68, 1897 (r? not ? ). 

 Philanthus cleonm Dun., Can. Ent., XXX, 152, 1898, ?. 



One d", La Jolla, August. Two c?c?, San Pedro, July 10. A 

 variable species, but distinguished from its relatives by the produced 

 front of male, the sparse deep punctures of dorsum and the closer 

 deep punctures of abdomen common to both sexes. In the male 

 the front has a medial longitudinal impression, or is smooth, or with 

 a slightly raised line ; an analogous variation appears in the front 

 of the ?, the color pattern is also variable, more elaborate or less 

 than the pattern described by Smith. This species is recorded 

 from Colorado, Washington, New Mexico, California (type local- 

 ity), Oregon and Montana. The Colorado specimens are the more 

 strongly colored. 



Philanthus pacificus Cress. 



Two dd', San Pedro, Cal., July 9. 



Diploplectron brunneipes Cress. 



One ?, identical in size, structure and sculpture with the type 

 from Nevada ; it differs in color of the prothorax which is black, 

 and in the darker autennis, tegulie and legs ; the abdomen is black 

 with exception of the apex of pygidium. 



San Pedro, July 11. 



Mygnimia nstulata Dahlb. 



One cP, La Jolla, August. 

 Cryptooheilns flammipennis Sm. 



Two 9 9, San Pedro, July 27. Another ? in Coll. Am. Ent. 

 Soc. from Palo Alto, 1891 (Leland Stanford, Jr., Univ.). 



Hemipogonius subopaous Cress. 



One 9, San Pedro, July 28 (A. Springer). Pennsylvania is 

 the only locality so far known for this species represented by the 

 uniqui! types 9 and c?. It seems quite strange that it should be 

 found on the Pacific coast. A careful comparison reveals no 

 specific difference between this specimen and the type : the wings 




734 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [NoV., 



are merely darker with a stronger violaceous reflection. One c? 

 at the same place and time (T. D. A. Cockerell). 

 Agenia aocepta Cre.'s. 



One ?, La Jolla, August. Wings uniformly fuscous, apical 

 bordei" paler. Specimens from Atco, N. J., June, 1897 (C. W. 

 Johnson), Dakota, Texas, Las Cruces, N.M., October 19, found 

 dead (Ckll. ), have wings mottled as in the type from Georgia. 



Agenia enphorbiae n. sp. 



d^. — Length 4 mm. Head apparently impunctate, opaque, face 

 below antennae covered with appressed silvery pubescence, space 

 between posterior ocelli a little less than that between them and 

 nearest eye-margin, first joint of flagellum as long as or a little 

 shorter than the second. Thorax dull, covered with very fine sil- 

 very pubescence, apparent only in certain lights. Wings almost 

 uniformly darkened, pale brown, uervures and stigma dark brown 

 Abdomen shining, somewhat compressed, covered with a finer and 

 less apparent pubescence than the thorax. First segment not dis- 

 tinctly jietiolate, about twice as long us broad at apex. Legs very 

 finely sericeous. Second submargiual cell along the cubitus a little 

 longer than the first. 



Black, tibiffi and tarsi brownish. .V])ical dorsal segment with a 

 white spot. 



Type, Coll. Acad. Nat. Sci. Philadelphia. 



Type locality, San Pedro, Cal. Kelated to A. petiolatujs Cress., 

 from Illinois, but smaller and without a distinctly petiolate first 

 abdominal segment. 



One c?, July 27, on EupJioi'bia. 



Anoplias (Pompilinas) padrinus n. sp. 



d^. — Length 4.5 mm. Head impunciate, suhopaque, face below 

 antenna; covered with appressed silvery pubescence, on the rest of 

 the head the pubescence is so fine as to be almost invisible. Space 

 between posterior ocelli about e(iual to that between them anrl near- 

 est eye-margin, first joint of flagellum di.stiuctly shorter tiiau the 

 second. The entire tegument has a bluish sheen to'it, the thorax is 

 covered with a very fine silvery ])ube.-;ccnce apparent only in cer- 

 tain lights, on the under side and on the coxae it is heaviest. A 

 faint furrow down the middle of the metathorax. Abdomen pol- 

 ished, slightly dull, with a very fine pubescence. Legs silvery 




1902.] KATUEAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 735 



sericeous. Second submarginal cell almost narrowed to a point on 

 the cubitus. Wiugs smoky, bluish and iridescent in certain lights. 

 Black with a bluish cast. The legs black. 



Type, Coll. Acad. Nat. Sci. Philadelphia. 



Type locality, Sau Pedro, Cal. 



One c?, July 27, on Euphorbia. Much like A. cylindricus 

 Cress., but that is duller and has a petiolate submarginal cell. 

 Anoplius (Pompilinus) marginatus Say. 



One d\ San Pedro, -July 11. 

 Pedinaspis planatus Fox. 



Two c?c?, La Jolla, xVugust. First record of the c?. Aside 

 from the ordinary sexual characters this is just like the female. 

 Vespa oocidentalis Cress. 



La Jolla, August. One ? . 

 Anoistrocerus halophila n. sp. 



Clypeus finely, head and thorax above closely, coarsely punc- 

 tured. Sides of metathorax produced, but not into a sharp point. 

 Black on second abdominal segment hour-glass pattern. 



d'. — Length, 9 mm. Clypeus bidentate, sparsely punctured, 

 slightly produced ;icross the middle, with sparse rather long slender 

 hairs. Front and vertex with close coarse punctures, dull pilose, 

 space between po.sterior ocelli a little larger than that between 

 them and nearest eye-margin, head posteriorly bounded by a strong 

 margin which joins the malar space close to the margin of the 

 eye. First joint of flagellum about one and a half times as long 

 as the second. Angles of the pronotum, produced though not 

 sharply. Pronotum, mesonotum and dorsulum almost uniformly, 

 coarsely and closely punctured, pilose like head, the dorsulum with 

 a median impressed line anteriorly ; tegulie shining, sparsely punc- 

 tured, me.sopleur8e more closely punctured and less distinctly than 

 mesonotum, pilose, metapleune rugulose dull, the middle of the 

 margin produced into a short blunt tooth. The posterior face or 

 basin of metathorax enclosed by well-defined margins laterally, 

 roughened, dullish, a median raised line extending up three-fourth.s 

 its height, and diverging into two raised lines before the upper 

 margin of the basin. Tarsal claws cleft. Wings subfuscous, 

 marginal cell and an apical margin near the marginal cell deeply 

 clouded, nervures of basal half of wing and stigma yellowish 




736 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Nov., 



ferruginous to ferruginous, nervures of apical half dark brown, 

 second submarginal cell narrowed about one-half on the radial ner- 

 vure, the third hardly narrower on the radial than on the cubital 

 nervure. Punctures of first dorsal segment coarser and closer than 

 on the others, a median longitudinal line on the sides and apicallj', 

 face of truncation shining, sparsely punctured. The succeeding 

 dorsal segments becoming almost smooth basally, finely punctured 

 before the maculated border, the latter distinctly closely punctuj-ed. 



Black ; mandibles except base and apex, clypeus, a short line 

 bordering eyes below emargination, a spot between antenna;, front 

 of scape, a small spot behind the eyes, a broad line on pronotum, a 

 spot on meso])leurfe, greater part of tegukc, a spot on each side of 

 scutellum, a line on postscutellum, tibia, tarsi, part of femora, an 

 apical band on first dorsal segment dilated at the sides, an apical 

 band on second dorsal segment and a cuneiform mark extending 

 in obliquely from the lateral border of the apical band, second ven 

 tral segment with an undulated apical baud, separated narrowly 

 from a large blotch which lakes up nearly all the area, the other 

 segments (apical one excepted) with an apical band, yellow. 

 Hook and part of the eighth, ninth and tenth joints of the flagol- 

 lum ferruginous, apical tarsal joints and claws more or l&ss darkened. 



Type, Coll. Acad. Nat. Sci. Philadelphia. 



Type locality, San Pedro, Cal. 



Type and one paratype July 9, another paratype July 27. One, 

 La Jolla, August. Tlie La Jolla specimen has a yellow line on 

 the lateral margin of metathorax. Allied to A. sulphureus Sauss., 

 but distinct by tlie closely arranged punctuation of head and thorax 

 and the more opaque appearance of these parts. 



Odynerus rufobasilaris Ashm. 



One ?, Alpine Tavern, Mt. Lowe, altitude 5,000 feel, August 

 12, on flowers of Eriogoimm polij'oliuin. Beside the characters 

 given in (he original description this species has the lateral angles 

 of the metathorax produced into two long, sharp points. 



Tetraohrysis nortoni Aar. 



One 9, San Pedro, July 11. 



Elis plumipes Dru. 



One ?, two cTc?, Coronado, July 31. 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 737 



Photopsis unioolor Cress. 



La JoUa, August. One c?. An interesting variation, having 

 the posterior half of thorax and the legs blackish. This is the 

 first time the species is recorded from any definite locality. 

 Photopsis lingulatns n. sp. 



Allied to albicinda, but distinct by the more sparsely haired 

 abdomen and the almost impunctate second abdominal segment. 



Length, c?, 11.5 mm. Clypeus truncate, the truncation slightly 

 rounded. Mandibles obliquely truncate, slightly notched near the 

 middle of the inferior edge, the trimcation Iridenlate, the apical 

 tooth strongest, the middle one weakest, front with a median fur- 

 row extending down from the anterior ocellus to between the inser- 

 tion of antenute, front almost smooth, polished like the rest of the 

 head, which has shallow, indistinct punctures. Space between 

 posterior ocelli greater than that between them and the anterior 

 ocellus and greater than the space between them and nearest eye- 

 margin. Lower margin of eyes almost contiguous with the mser- 

 tion of mandibles. First joint of flagellum about three-fourlhs the 

 length of the second. Prothorax rather coai-sely reticulated, ouly 

 on the sides is there a small area almost smooth. Mesonotum with 

 deep, good-sized, separated punctures; parapsidal groove distinct, 

 deep, extending back almost to the posterior margin. The lateral 

 furrows merelj- indicated by faint lines. Scutellum convex, with 

 shallow, almost confluent punctures; postscutelluiu dullish in con- 

 trast to the other parts of the thorax which are shining, sculpture 

 indefinite. Disk of melathorax with a broad almost quadrate 

 polished area, the rest of the metathorax, excepting the greater jjart 

 of the metapleurse, very distinctly netted, the meshes lai'ge, ihe 

 pits shining. Mesopleura; bulged outward along the middle, the 

 bulged surface irregularly reticulated, bounded by an irregular 

 ridge formed by the termination of the reticulation. The depressed 

 portion of the mesopleura; with shallow punctures on the greater 

 part, partly smooth, me.sopleune below with a few obscure punc- 

 tures, above smooth and shining. Petiole not strongly convex, 

 about twice as long as broad at apex, shining, roughened on the 

 basal half, with a few indistinct punctures on the apical half. 

 Second segment polished dorsad, the punctures are fine and well sejD- 

 arated or sparse. Ventrad the punctures are seemingly stronger, 

 on the basal half no distinct punctures. Eest of the segments 

 47 




738 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [NoV., 



finely sculptured to polished ou basal half, the apical half haity, a 

 small puncture seems to be at the base of eacli hair. Ou the basal 

 two-thirds of the third segmeut in the middle there is a curious 

 area like a transverse half of an ellipse, with the rounded portion 

 pointed toward the apex of the segmeut, this has a subtle surface, 

 neither shiniug nor exactly dull, with an opalescent cast. A fur- 

 row of grayish felt-like pubescence close to the margin of the second 

 dorsal segmeut. There is no furrow with felt -like pubescence 

 ou the second ventral segment. The wings have the third sub- 

 marginal cell very faintly indicated, except at the lower corner, 

 where it is altogether erased, not a trace of a second recurrent 

 nervure. The insect is almost uniformly covered with a moder- 

 ately abundant fine, loug, pale pubescence, that ou the abdomen 

 sparsest, pubescence of dorsulum stronger, shorter, of a golden tint. 



Rather brownish testaceous; space between ocelli, tips of the 

 mandibles, and parts of the femora almost black. Flagellum 

 brownish. Tibiie and tarsi very pale brownish. Stigma very dark 

 brown, nervures smoky testaceous. 



Type, Coll. Acad. Nat. Sci. Philadelphia. 



Type_locality, La Jolla, Cal. 



One c?, August. 



ODONTOPHOTOPSIS n. g. 



Erected for the reception of tliose species having the anterior 

 margin of the mesosternum armed with two processes. 

 Type, Odonlophotopsis exogyrus n. sp. 



Odontophotopsis exogyrus "■ sp. 



Process of mesosternum in the shai» of a broad projection 

 pointed straight down, having the appearance of being bidentate, 

 one tooth sharper than tlie other. 



Length, c?, 12.5 mm. C'lypeus concave, polished. The entire 

 h4!ad almost uniformly covered with well-separated medium punc- 

 tures, an indistinct furrow extends from the anterior ocellus to be- 

 tween the insertion of antenna;. Posterior ocelli more than twice as 

 far apart as they are distant from the anterior one, the distance 

 between the posterior ocelli less than that between thein and nearest 

 cve-raargin. Lower margin of eyes almost contiguous with insertion 



mandibles. Mandibles strong, decidedly curved, with a strong 

 uperior and inferior margin, deeply emarginate on the lower mar- 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 739 



gin, the emargiuatiou extending in, one-half of the width, the part 

 of the mandible beyond this narrow, oblique, strongly margined. 

 First joint of flagelliim about three-fourths the length of the second. 

 Prothorax rugose. Dorsulum with strong separated punctures, the 

 furrows of about the same degree, none strong, merely impressed 

 lines, starting about one-third the distance from the anterior mar- 

 gin of the dorsulum and extending back to the posterior margin. 

 Scutellum large, coarsely sculptured, postscutellum indistinctly sculp- 

 tured, propleurte rough above, smooth below, mesopleur;ie with in- 

 distinct shallow puncluves on ttie depressed part, the bulged part 

 reticulated but not margined, on the posterior border smooth and 

 polished. Disk of metathorax with an oblong area bisected by 

 a longitudinal ridge. An almost triangular area to each side 

 of the enclosure, the rest of the metathorax except the lower half 

 of raetapleuraj reticulated, the meshes on the posterior face largest, 

 the lower half of metapleura deeply depi-essed, making a channel 

 which is smooth and shining. A meilian raised line extends 

 from ihe deepest part of the impression back almost to the poste- 

 rior coxsR, where it helps to make a narrow channel, which is 

 thus separated from the nigose area adjoining the coxas. Third 

 suljiuarginal cell entirely obliterated, as is the second recur- 

 rent nervure. Petiole nearly twice as long as broad at apex, con- 

 vex but not strongly so, punctures rather shallow, not sharply 

 ilefined, rather close together near the margins, more separated 

 above, second segment polished, the pimctures distinctl}' finer than 

 those on the first, a long line with felt-like golden pubescence 

 extending along the dorsal segment near the margin ; on the ventral 

 segment this line is shortened almost to a spot. The rest of the 

 segments very finely punctured. 



Covered in greater part with a golden pubescence ; the pubescence 

 of the metathorax, sides of thorax and the first segment pale, 

 .silvery. 



Testaceous; flagellum l)rownish, legs paler than rest of the 

 insect. Stigma deep brown, nervures much paler, the membrane 

 slightly, uniformly clouded. 



Type, Coll. Acail. Nal. Sci. Philadelphia. 



Type locality. La JoUa, Cal. 



Two i^S', taken in August. In the paratype there is a very 

 faint indication of a third transverse cubitus. 




740 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [XoV., 



Odontopliotopsis clandestinus n. sp. 



]Me.?ostemum with the processes of a quadrate character flattened, 

 with the anterior margin pointing inward and forward, the poste- 

 rior margin backward and outward. The lower margin slightly 

 emarginate. 



Length, (3', 9 mm. Head covered w'ith closely arranged deep 

 punctures, closer between anterior ocellus and the insertion of an- 

 tenniB than elsewhere. Posterior ocelli about twice as far apart as 

 they are distant from the anterior one, the distance between the 

 posterior ocelli about equal to the distance between them and the 

 nearest eye-margin. Lower margins of eyes almost contiguous 

 with the base of mandibles. The mandibles not so strong, more 

 gently curved, having a superior and inferior margin, the lower 

 margin strongly notched. First joint of flagellum about three- 

 fourths the length of the second. Prothorax witli contiguous 

 punctures almost rugose, tlic punctures more distinct dorsally than 

 on the sides. Dorsuluni with almost contiguous coarse punctures, 

 the middle pair of furrows deeper than the lateral pair, the latter a 

 shining line. Scutellum and postscutellum opaque, roughened, not 

 distinctly sculptured. Proplcurre closely jjunctured. jMesopleura; 

 depressed about one-half from front to back, the depressed part 

 almost impunctate below, closely punctured above, the bulged i)art 

 of mesopleura; covered with closely arranged shallow punctures, 

 the face directed backward and outward, shining, almost impunc- 

 tate. Metathorax with a somewhat oblong enclosure extending to 

 base of disk. This area is about one and a half times as Jong as 

 wide, a little broader at apex than at base, also not square at apex. 

 The shining surface is bisected by a longitudinal raised line, on 

 each side of this area is a triangular area with one side on the base 

 of the metathorax. The rest of the disk is covered with moder- 

 ately large, almost hexagonal or round, shallow pits. The sides of 

 the metathorax liave one-half deeply depressed, almost a broad 

 channel, which is in g;-eater part shining and without sculpture, 

 the rest of the side is closely reticulated. AVings somewhat yellow- 

 ish hyaline, stigma brown, nervures paler, a pale-brown stain on 

 the lower half of the wings. A short stump of a vein extends 

 beyond the insertion of the second transverse cubitus on the cubital 

 >>er\iire. Third submarginal cell outlined by faint nervures, which 

 are not continuous; a very faint line extending half-way up to the 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 741 



cubitus stands for the second recurrent nervure. Petiole of abdo- 

 men a little less than twice as long, as broad at apex, convex but not 

 strongly, on the disk the punctures are distinct, rather deep, large 

 and separated. The sides of the petiole are rather moderately 

 rugulose ; second segment shining, punctured, the punctures closer 

 together on the sides than on the disk and not as large as those on 

 the disk of the first segment or petiole, the rest of the dorsal seg- 

 ments finely punctured on the apical half, second ventral segment 

 more coarsely and closely punctured than the second dorsal segment. 

 In the middle of Ihe base of the exposed portion of the third dorsal 

 segment is visible an area with a subtle surface, in outline like a 

 U. The second dorsal segment has a lateral line appressed-like 

 pubescence near the margin silvery, in some lights of a dirty ap- 

 pearance; on the second ventral segment is a similar line, but less 

 than one-half the length of the one on the dorsal segment. The 

 entire insect is almost uniformly covered with a moderate amount 

 of long, fine, while, erect pubescence ; that on the dorsulum and 

 margins of the segments is shorter and lies rather close. 



Brownish testaceous; legs pale testaceous, antenuje dull, dirty 

 testaceous, tips of the mandibles dark brown. 



Type, Coll. Acad. Nat. Sci. Philadelphia. 



Type locality, IMesilla, N. M. 



One c?, taken at light, July 31 (T. D. A. Cockerell). In the 

 shape of the mesosternal process this species comes close to the type 

 of the genus, but it is quite different in many respects. 



Odontophotopsis suooineus n. sp. 



Process of mesosternum a sharp tooth, in outline an acute angle. 

 The tooth is short, as in mellicausus and brevicornis, but sharper. 



Length, c?, 7.5 mm. Clypeus slightly concave, shining. Head 

 polished, punctures small and sparse. Instead of a furrow running 

 from the anterior ocellus to between the insertion of the antennae 

 there is a dent a short distance below the anterior ocellus, and from 

 this a rather indistinct impressed line appears to extend to the 

 margin of the clypeus. Hardly any space between the base of 

 mandibles and the lower margin of e3'es. Posterior ocelli about 

 twice as far apart as they are distant from the anterior ocellus, the 

 space between the posterior pair distinctly less than that between them 

 and nearest margin of the eyes. First joint of flagellum a trifle 

 shorter than the second. INIandibles not so strong, gently curved, 




742 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Xov. 



a distinct superior auil inferior margin, the latter emarginate, but 

 not very deep])'. Prothorax rugulose, a small tuft of appressed 

 hairs on each side of the prouotum. Dorsulum shining, the punc- 

 tures indistinctly outlined, well separated. Parapsidal grooves 

 almost absent, only one pair faintly apparent. The greater part of 

 the anterior half of mesopleurje depressed, shining, almost impuuc- 

 tate, the bidged part reticulated, its posterior border shining and 

 almost impimctate. Scutelluni and postscutellum closely sculp- 

 tured, opaque. The enclosed area on metauotum shining, almost 

 twice as long as broad at base, parallel-sided, bisected by a raised 

 line, the rest of the metanotum reticulated, the meshes large and of 

 irregular outline, the sides of the metathorax channeled, smooth, 

 shining and reticulated in parts. Wings slightly smoky, stigma 

 light brown, nervures paler, third submarginal cell practically 

 absent, a short stumj) of a vein on the radius is all there is of the 

 third transverse cubitus, a stump, a continuation of the cubitus, 

 extends a short distance beyond the insertion of the second trans- 

 verse cubitus. First segment of abdomen about twice as long as 

 broad at apex, convex but not strongly, shining, sparsely punc- 

 tured with poorly defined punctures, the sides closelj' punctured or 

 rugose. Second segment polished, the punctures ou it very fine 

 and widely separated. The rest of the segments very finely sculp- 

 tured, finely punctured near the apex. The area on the third 

 dorsal segment is highly polished and extends to the punctured 

 margin of the segment, the high polish is confined to a deltoid 

 anterior portion of the area, in back of which is a transverse band 

 of a more subtle character or between polished and opaque, at the 

 base of the segment this area is about one-third as wide as the 

 entire width of the segment. The second dorsal segment has a 

 line of appre.ssed silvery pubescence near the margin, and about 

 half as long as the margin, but ctjually removed from base and apex, 

 the representative of this line on the second ventral segment is 

 about one fourth the length of that on the dorsal segment. The 

 pubescence is erect, long and tine silvery to pale golden and almost 

 equally moderately distributed. 



Brownish testaceous, like some specimens of amber. Posterior 

 legs pale to dark brown, anterior legs whitish-brown. Flagellum 

 dark brown, mandibles tipped witii deep brown. 



Type, Coll. Acad. Nat. Sci. Philadelphia. 



Type locality. La Jolla, Cal. 




1902.] NATUKAL 8CIEJSCi;S OF PHILAUiiLmiA. 743 



. ^T° "^ J .^"»"*'- I'^ ^^e paratype the enclosure of metanotum 

 IS not .od^tmctly marked and , no re quadrate and the enclosure 

 ot the third segment is uniformly subtle. 



Spliaeroplithalma harpalyce Fox. 



One ?, La Jolla, August. 

 Sphaerophthalma paoifioa Cress. 



Three ? 9 La Jolla, August, and San Pedro, July 10. Two 

 ^c^ San Pedro July 25; La JoUa, August. This is the first record 

 01 the cf. In shape and color it is much like the ?. There can 

 be no mistake about its identity. The wings are almost black 




"44 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Dec. 



December"2 

 The President, Sajiuel G. Dixon, M.D in the Giair. 

 Seventeen persons present. 



December 9. 

 Mr. Arthur Erwin Brown. Vice-President, in the Cliair. 

 Seven persons pre-sent. 



December 16. 

 J. Cheston Morris, M.D., in the Chair. 



Eleven persons present. 



A paper entitled " Five New Species of Trachilomonas, " by 

 T. Chalkley Palmer, was presented for publication. 



Minerals from Santiago Providence, Cuba. — Mr. S. IIarbert 

 Hamilton exhibited some of the minerals met with during his 

 recent explorations of portions of Cuba, and described the manner 

 of their occurrence. He called attention to increments of raise 

 shown by the southern coast of Cuba from Maysi to Santiago de 

 <'uba (Puerto de Cuba). All along this coast are to be seen 

 remains of from three to five terraces, and around the harbor of 

 Santiago de Cuba are a series of amphitheatre-like benches, which, 

 with the Sierra Maestre, give a very peculiar and picturesque effect 

 to the landscape. These benches are fo.ssiliferous, but the shells are 

 iisuallv only re])rcsented by ciusts. 



This part of Cuba has un<{ue.<tionably suffered an'extensive sub- 

 sidence, possibly about the beginning of Tertiary time. The 

 peculiar shape of Santiago 15ay is to l)e accounted for as an old 

 valley, which the sinking of the laud has allowed the sea to 

 encroach upon. Since its submergence this portion of Cuba has 

 gradually been raising; the raised beaches attesting to the incre- 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 745 



meiits of raise. It is believed that the floor of the bay is rising 

 to-day, as it is only by constant dredging that it is possible for 

 vessels of moderate draught to come to the dock, many of the 

 larger steamers having to discharge their cargoes in the bay. It is 

 said that formerly any vessel could dock without difficulty. 



The coral rock of the seashore is being carved into huge sea 

 caves, one of the most prominent being under the old Morro Castle 

 at the entrance lo the harbor. Further up the coast are two large 



Stalactite sliowiug cup method of growth. 



caves, or rather, a series of eaves, that are now above tide and a 

 considerable distance inland. They are known as Cuevas de 

 Caribi.ss, and are within a few miles of the bay of Aserradero, 

 where lies the wreck of the " Viscaya," adjacent to a cocoauut 

 grove, a few huts of fishermeu and charcoal burners and the ruins 

 of a diminutive Spanish fort. The caves were evidently originally 

 carved out by sea action, just as the one under Morro is being 

 formed to-day. They present another proof of the raise of this 

 coast. Thev are now tenanted bv millions of cave bats, Artibeus 




746 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Dec, 



parvipcs Reliu, ami Brachyphylla nana, whose guano was once 

 exported, buL is now imtouched. It is stated that aboriginal 

 remains have been found in them, but several days of excavation 

 with five assistants yielded no return. It may be that further 

 excavation would be more productive. 



lu these caves, in the Ckievas de Guano particularly, occur the 

 most beautiful stalactites and stalagmites. They are not of the 

 yellowish tinge so common in our limestone caverns, but of a snowy 

 whiteness. When seen by the light of torches, wet, and covered 

 with little shimmering crystals, they present a very beautiful appear- 

 ance as they stand out from the black gloom of the cave. One 

 huge growth, fancifully called the "Elephant's Head" by his 

 companions, was successfully photographed by Capt. Jos. Priest. 

 A stalagmite known as the " (irandificencia Casa Blauca " (the 

 glorious white house) was removed with partial success and is now 

 in the American Museum of Natural History. Their manner of 

 growth was somewhat peculiar. Numerous little cups are formed 

 from a quarter to a half -inch in size, arranged with the bowl 

 upward, and lined with small crystals. As the water-carrying 

 calcium bicarbonate slowly trickled from the roof, it was caught by 

 the cups on the stalagniites and stalactites and gradually clianged 

 to the normal carbonate.- This is an adaptation of inorganic econ- 

 omy he had not seen previously recorded. Several hundreds of 

 pounds of these cave-growths were transported with danger and 

 difficulty to Santiago and brought nonh.' 



On an extension of the Ferro-Carri! y Almacenes de Santiago that 

 goes from Santiago de Cuba to Alto do Songo are the manganese mines 

 of Ponupo owned by the Ponupo Mining and Transportation Com- 

 pany. The ore is a loose amorphous pyrohisite mined in open cuts and 

 washed before shipping. The deposits seem to be enormous, but he 

 had not explored nnich more than in the immediate vicinity of the 

 works. The mineral is said never to have been found crystallized, 

 but usually occurs in the amorphous condition in nodules, and some- 

 times in beautiful stalactitic masses called " Flor de ^langanese. 

 He was permitted to bring away the best examples of this interest- 

 ing mineral, which, had been conserved in the company's offices. 

 Associated with the mahgane.se are remains of a limestone forma- 

 tion containing oxide of manganese and a fossil which Mr. 

 Vaughan has referred to the Eocene as Ohitoides forbesii. It is 

 possible that the manganese oxide may have been precipitated in 



' Since the above was written it has been noticed that some of the 

 stalactites brought l)ack have grndiiaHy assnmcd a darker sliade. This 

 is doubtless to be accounted for by the o.xidation of salts of the heavy 

 metals, which wliile in tlie subterranean chanil)ers had but a deficient 

 supply of oxygen. Call, (COj), = CaCO, + H/) -f CO,. Being now 

 removed from tlie cave atmosphere, oxidation of llie trace of iron lias 

 occurred. 




1902.] NATURAL SCIE>XES OF PHILADELPHIA. 747 



In'Jl'ril^eT,' >J^""' ''^'\f™inifer dwelt, just as the dredg- 

 found it in <I ^''"'^'"^Z ^-^f "^^<^^- f'eep sea explorers have 



have kr^pfv rt 1 °''''? /™l^^«"e, which tropical conditions 

 traUni the^binolT f '°'"^''' bicarbonate of ciicium, concen- 

 deposi "^ manganese as the present pyrolusite ore 



As\lPL%wT^''' f""'' ''^'^''r^'''''' ^°bre were opened, 

 and he si nf. •■ "' -1 T'^ "" '''''•^' ^""''^ ^^^'^ '"'■'^'^d from them, 

 fee" The tt.r """'l '°. extend vertically for twelve hundred 

 reel ihe b eakmg out of the " Ten Years' AVar " put an end 

 ^ the working From 1867 to 1901 nothing was done The 

 workings are said to be the largest in the work! This is to div 



u Idts 2 Y *'' ^""?r?^ °^ ^°°^ °^ -""-' .nachin^^rv, huj.^ 

 t, np)^^ aufl. domps With innumerable abandoned shafts and 

 tunnels Owing to the dilapidated and extensive nature of tl e 

 Cobre deposits, a detailed studv of d.em was impo." ble The 

 principal copperiferous ;veins se«n to perpendicula ly cu a «lnle 

 whose dip IS 70° strike ft '>no \v ,-,t -^ ' 



occur -.rlriinn. V^ l^ 7 • ; ; ^^ ^°'^''^ "^any offslioots 



°him ;crseem^ " " complexity. The ore at present mined and 

 e^te 7 ^' •■'^ :']^'.T^'' '"'-^^"'•'^ °f o-^ifle, caibonate and 



ilZ\ ■ .., P|'f'\ ^"Ipl^'f'es exist further down as they were 



place oSet i """"• •.^™"'' T' '^'-'^l-P.vrite were found in 

 place. Uxide of iron, pyrite, crystals of quartz of peculiar habit 

 ox.de of copper an.l other minerals forming a go san are nie^ 

 with, but not m good specimens. The water now filling ' the mines 

 :s highly charged with chalcanthite and melanterite, rode pZts 

 are in operation removing the copper from solution. Chalcantlit; 

 and brochanlite are often found deposited in unexposed pw' 

 A m, e or so upstream from the village, on the Rio c4re there 

 IS an interesting mineral occurrence. Here a pyritiferous dike Jr 

 vem cuts a calcareous rock. The pyrite is oxidized to °Sp a e o 

 .ron and the iron precipitated as hydroxide by vegetable matter 

 producing m the reaction sulphuric "acid. Thil in'actint oftl; 

 calcium compounds has produced gypsum. The ™m thus 

 formed is not crystallized in the usi^l shapes, but by a multiple 

 growth along certain axis, produces unusual f^nns anVcoTZ! 

 tions. In many instances the crystalline masses are of limnid 

 pureness, free from mclnsions. ^Again the mde u es in tSr 

 airangement seem to include as much foreign matter as possible. 



In the valley of the Han Juan, near the hill famous in history 

 Which IS a coarse conglomerate gravel, are deposits of clav which 

 yield a rather inferior brick. Here are also deposits of sand an 



Sis w'l/V^^Tr'"'-'^'/'^ ''^'''' '' ^'^ experimental w^lls 

 put down by Mr. LaBe le prehminary to operations on the new 

 Santiago waterworks indicated. This sand and gravel is mostly 

 too coarse for building. The valley of the San Juan was ivirn ly 




748 PEOCEEDIJfGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



much deeper and has been filled since this portion of the island 

 sunk. The same phenomenon is illustrated on the Santa Ynase 

 road north of the town. 



At Dos Bocas a dark -gray rock has been quarried for road 

 metal. It is probably a tine-grained trap. Dip? 30° to S. W. 



The strata exposed in the magnificent gorge of the Rio Guanini- 

 cum near Santa Ana is in some places suitable for building. The 

 new schoolhouse at Santiago and the piers of the Cuba companies 

 railroad bridge are of this stone. Dip 20° S.E. There appears, 

 however, to be a dearth of good building material iu this district. 



Some local mining men iu Santiago de Cuba, who had visited the 

 summit of the Gran Piedra, 3,700' A.T. , suggested that it showed 

 signs of former local glaciei's. In company with Captains Erwiu 

 and Priest the ascent was made with some hardship, owing to 

 inclement weather. The summit is composed of two huge granite- 

 like masses worn very smooth, suggesting possible ice action, but 

 there were no scratches to be seen or anything to indicate moranic 

 njaterial. The evidence obtained wa.s purely negative, but owing 

 to the incessant rain and rank plant-growth chances for observation 

 were limited. 



An atlenipt to ascend the Pico Tarquino failed. A height of 

 5,875 ' A.T. was attained, but owing to the severe meteorological 

 conditions, lack of suitable companions and supplies, at the end of 

 several days it was necessary, on account of the illness of his 

 companions, to abandon collections and return as best they could. 

 The mountain, consisting of three peaks ai)parenlly, are heavily 

 wooded. The speaker was only able to observe that tree ferns do 

 not occur below about 1,000' A.T., and that considerably above 

 this altitude two species of snail, Uelirina pulchra and Pleurodonie 

 bai/amensis, occur, which are not found at lower levels. 



Mt. Magota, 850' A.T. , was also ascended. The start was made 

 from Santa Ana through an interesting primeval forest. The 

 niDunlaiu is capped by a limestone mesa about 350' thick. The 

 to[) is only to he attained by a narrow cleft which would not have 

 been found but for the assistance of the Cuban guide. The lime- 

 stone top hits been carved by the elements into holes and pinnacles 

 of exceeding sharpness so as to make passage of its smnmit danger- 

 ous and difficult. This annoying structure of rock is known as 

 " dent de Perro " (teeth of the dog), and is certainly well named. 



In this rock are caves where General .Maceo dwelt under Span- 

 ish regime. Surroumled by sisal aiul other thorny plants this 

 jilacc nuist have been impregnable. The caves are now given over 

 to bals and an occasional brigand. Fine-examples r f Pleuradonte 

 marginella roatrata Pfr. and Ziichrysia ^^roboscidea Pfr. were here 

 obtained, but the mountain is overrun with a S{)ecies of iguana 

 which feeds on the snails. 



Near Magota mountain is a good indication of copjier which has 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 749 



never been touched. The new railroad will make it available. 

 In connection with copper and the supposed indication which the 

 presence of certain plants are said to give of the existence of 

 metals, it may be mentioned that only here and at Cobre had he 

 met with the cycad Zaniia It may only be a coincidence. 



While in Cobre he received specimens of chromite said to have 

 come from the neighborhood of Holguine. The deposit was not 



seen 



The speaker said in conclusion that he desired to return thanks 

 for the courtesies he had received from the many Americans and 

 natives he had met while collecting and studying on the island. 



December 23. 

 Mr. Arthur Erwin Brown, Vice-President, in the Chair. 

 Ten persons present. 



A paper entitled ' ' On the Terrestrial Vertebrates of Portions of 

 Southern New Mexico and Western Texas," by Witmer Stone and 

 James A. G. Rehu, was presented for publication. 



December 30. 



The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M.D., in the Chair. 



Thirty-six persons present. 



The following were ordered to be printed : 




750 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Dec, 



THE DEVELOPMENT OF GONIONEMA MURBACHII. 



BY HENRY FARNHAM PERKINS. 



Gonionemus A. Agassiz, 1863, Contrib. Nat. Hist. U. S., IV, p. 350. 



From -/uvio, angled, and vrj/ia, thread, "kneed tentacles." 

 Gonynema Haeckel, 1879, System der Medusen. 

 Gonionemus Murbach, 1895, Journal Morph., XI, 8. 

 Gonionemus Murbachii Mayer, 1901, Brooklyn Inst. Sci. Bui., I, 1. 

 Gonionema A. Agassiz, MSS. 

 Ilonionema Murbachii Perkins, Johns Hopkins Un. Cir., !May, 1903. 



Introductiox. 



The genus Gonionema was established by Dr. Alexander Agassiz 

 to inchide a inedu.sa which he discovered in 1862 in the Gulf of 

 Georgia, Washington Territory. Its most striking character, ana- 

 tomically, is the peculiar form of the tenlacles, ^yhich are bent at 

 an angle near the tip, and at the angle bear a sucking organ by 

 means of which the medusa makes itself fast to any favorable 

 object. This peculiarity in the form of the tenlacles suggested to 

 Agassiz the name which he proposed. The form of the name 

 which is now used is that which Dr. Agassiz offers in correction of 

 the original one, which was in error as to its ending. 



For a long time the Gulf of Georgia was the only locality from 

 which this genus was described. In 1894, however, another 

 habitat was discovered far distant, at Woods Hole, ^Massachusetts. 

 Since then members of the genus have been found at the widely 

 .separated loaiilities of the Fiji Islands and Alaska. A closely 

 allied genus has been described from the coast of Brazil aud from 

 the Bahamas. flayer says that he foinid a new species of 

 Gonionema (" aphrodite" ) in the Baliamas, i)Ut as a matter of 

 fact this mcdu.sa po-ssesses rather the characters of the Glindiada;, 

 two distinct kinds of tentacles and papilliform gonads. 



The history of the Woods Hole Gonionema is interesting. In 

 spite of the fact that the " eel-pond '" at the centre of the village of 

 Woods Hole, a small body of water connected with ihe outer 

 haibor by a narrow inlet, is easy of access to collectors, and that 

 numerous studculs of jelly-fishes had investigated the waters around 




U'02.] NATURAL SCIEKCES OF PHILADKLPUIA. 751 



Woods Hole summer after summer for a number of years, Goni- 

 onema was uever found in the Atlantic Ocean until 1894. During 

 that sunmier a number of specimens were taken from the eel-pond, 

 the creature having made an astonishingly sudden appearance upon 

 the scene. It seems incredible that Gonionema could have been 

 living in this small body of water for any time previoasly, or at 

 any rate that any number of individuaJs had been there. ]5ut the 

 jelly-fish at once secured a good " foothold," and since the fir.st 

 summer it has been very plentiful ; its numbers remain undimin- 

 ished by the wholesale raids of collectors, in spite of the keen 

 anxiety of some of those interested in it. During the summer of 

 1894, when Gonionema was first found at Woods Hole, Prof. AV. 

 K. Brooks secured a number of specimens and made drawings 

 both from live meduste and from sections of preserved material. 

 Some of these drawings, PI. XXXHI, figs. 21, 22, PL XXXIV, 

 fig. 25, are now published, with Dr. Brooks' generous permission, 

 for the first time. 



The first printed account of the AVoods Hole species of Goni- 

 onema, since recognized as distinct from the G. vertens oi Agassiz, 

 was published in 189.5 by Dr. L. ]MurI)ach.' In several instances 

 the .species has been mentioned as identical with G. vertens, and it 

 was not until 1901 that the specific name Murhaehii was bestowed 

 upon it by Dr. A. G. flayer. 



The work which I have done on the life-hisloiy of this form was 

 originally undertaken and nas since been prosecuted with Dr. Jlur- 

 bach's kind encouragement, and I have received from him manv 

 favors in the wa}- of material and helpful suggestions. The 

 research has been carried on during 1900 and 1901 at the 

 U. S. Fish Commission Laboratory, \\-here I have had the threat 

 privilege of working during the summer, and under the direction 

 of Prof. W. K. Brooks at the Biological Laboratory of the Johns 

 Hopkins L^uiversity. I wish to acknowledge mv obligations to 

 Dr. Bumpus, Dr. H. M. Smith and Dr. Whitman for courtesies 

 which they have extended to me in my work. 



XOTE ox THE OXTOGEXY OF THE " TkACHOMEDU.S.E. " 



According to Ilaeckel's classification Gonionema falls into his 

 third order, the " Trachomedusse. " Ilaeckel characterized this 



' L MuEBACH, 1895, " Preliminary JSTote on the Life-Historv of Gonio- 

 ntm\i3," Journal of Morphology, X[, 3. 




752 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Dec, 



order as follows: " Development, hypogenesis (not metagenesis), 

 but usually with metamorphosis." Subsequent research into the 

 life-history of this group has shown that each clause of this state- 

 ment is open to emendation. In the first place, the " usually " is 

 superfluous. The exceptions which Haeckel supposed to exist and 

 which caused him to say " usually with metamorphosis " have been 

 shown to be no exceptions, but cases of somewhat easily misunder- 

 stood metamorphosis. Such, for example, was the case of Liriope, 

 which has been studied by Metschuikoff' and Brooks.' The 

 larva is a true hydra, although its free swimming mode of life and 

 its superficial aspect caused it to be mistaken, formerly, for a 

 gonosome. ^ly study of a jelly-fish which Haeckel includes in 

 his order " Trachomedusse " leads to the conclusion that the first 

 part of Haeckel's statement also requires revision, and that meta- 

 genesis does occur among medusre of this order. Although there 

 may be different interpretations of the terms ' ' metagenesis ' ' and 

 "hypogenesis," the following notion of the process of alternation 

 of generations may be safely accepted as that wliich is generally 

 held by students of this group. The production by a larva of 

 offspring unlike itself, and its own ultimate death without 

 undergoing metamorphosis, are frequent accompaniments of the 

 intermediate as of the primary process of multiplication ; but they 

 are by no means ei;sential to the process of metagenesis or alterna- 

 tion of generations. Creatures which multiply sexually at one 

 point of their life-history, and at another point non-sexually by 

 budding or fission, are said to have a metageuetic development. In 

 Gonionema a large number of adult individuals are produced from 

 a single egg through an intermediate process of multiplication (lexl- 

 figs. 2-10); buds are developed upon the body of the hydra-like 

 larva, become detached and, beginning as plauulie, follow exactly 

 the same course of development as the sexually produced parent. 

 Both parent and offs])ring later change into fully developed medusae. 

 Gonioaema has, then, a metageuetic form of development. It is, 

 of course, a mistake to regard the mere presence of a hydrula stage 

 enough to constitute alternation of generations (Murbach, 189.T, 

 p. 4Sttj). 



These emendations of Haeckel's description of the order add 



' Metschsikoff, Embryologisehe Studien an Medusen, 1886. 

 ' Brooks, Life-IlUtory of the Ilydromedusce, 1886. 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 753 



evidence to that already put forward by Brooks (188C, p. 300), 

 and others, to show that the hard and fast lines drawn by Haeckel 

 and the Hertwigs separating the " Trachilinse " and the " Lepto- 

 linse, " on the ground of anatomical differences or developmental 

 features, are not borne out by the facts. The Hertwigs (1878) 

 hold that " the marginal sense organs (Gehororgane) alone furnish 

 characteristics which enable us in every case to distinguish the 

 TrachomediLS£e (Trachomedusre and Narcomedusse of Haeckel) 

 from the Vesiculatae (Campauularian medusse) without knowledge 

 of their development." Dr. Brooks has, however, described a 

 species of Laodice which unites in its anatomical features the char- 

 acters of both the Leptolinte and the Tracliylinfe, having the ocelli 

 of the former order and the chitinous gouangium containing medusa 

 buds,* while Prof. Brooks has demonstrated (1886) that it also 

 possesses the true endoderraal sense clubs of the Trachylinoe. 



It may be that the present record of observations on Gonionema 

 will^be of interest as contributing some new points to the present 

 meagre knowledge of the manifold forms and types which are 

 exhibited iu the developmental processes of this great group. 



Gonosome. 



Gonionema is a very attractive feature of the Woods Hole 

 fauna. Its exquisite glassy umbrella, marked with a cross of yel- 

 low or brown by the four radial canals and the gonads, a brilliant 

 row of closely set spots of gleaming phosphorescent green outlining 

 its edge, a fringe of delicate streaming tentacles strung with bead- 

 like clusters of thread cells, are all more or less familiar to many 

 American biologists (PI. XXXI, fig. 1). 



On cloudy days or toward nightfall the medusa is very active, 

 swimming upward to the top of the water and then floating back 

 to the bottom. In swimming it propels itself upward with rhyth- 

 mic pulsations of the bell-margin, the tentacles shortened and the 

 bell very convex (PI. XXXI, fig. 2). Upon reaching the surface 

 the creature keels over almost instantly, and floats downward with 

 bell relaxed and inverted and the tentacles extended far out hori- 

 zontally iu a wide snare of stinging threads which carries certain 

 destruction to creatures even larger than the jelly-fish itself (fig. 



< Agassiz, 1865, p. 125. 

 48 




754 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Dec, 



1). Gonionema continues tliis fishing, with little respite, all day 

 long in cloudy wealher. Occasionally it fastens itself to a blade 

 of eel-grass or some other object near the bottom (PI. XXXI, fig. 

 3), or stops midway in its course with tentacles extended, as in 

 my figure (1). In this position it is well-nigh invisible, but a 

 deadly foe to small fish or cnistaceans which cross its path. 



Gonads. 



In the mature Gonionema the sexual organs are " frill-like lobes, 

 passing from one side to the other of the chimiferous canal" ( Agassiz, 

 1865). Their form and position are shown in PI. XXXI, fig?. 3, 

 4 and 5. The free edge of the ribbon of tissue is thickened and 

 rounded, and is bent backward and forward across the radial 

 canal. The color of the gonads has been supposed to afford means 

 of discriminating between the sexes, the males differing from the 

 females in the brighter yellow of the gonadial tissue. But this 

 distinction does not hold, and it is necessary to examine the indi- 

 vidual medusfe with a lens in order to separate the sexes. The 

 ovarian eggs, enclosed in the ectoderm of the gonads in the female, 

 give them a granular appearance as contrasted with the more 

 homogeneous and translucent tissue of the male. When a large 

 number of the jelly-fish are separated into two vessels, one contain- 

 ing the males and the other the females, the general color tone 

 of the males is brighter and more lively than that of the females, 

 but the specimens in each dish range all the way from light straw- 

 color uj) through orange, ochre, sienna, to dark brown. 



Embryology. 



It is my purpose to give in outline the main points in the early 

 part of the life-history of Gonionema. I have not discovered that 

 this genus exhibits any notable peculiarities in the development of 

 the egg, and I shall therefore lay the greater emphasis upon certain 

 features of the later developmental stages, which have more signifi- 

 cance in so far as they are less familiar. 



^4. Dehiscence. — The eggs are imbedded in the ectodermal tissue 

 of the gonad as iu a gelatinous matrix (PI. XXXI, fig. 5). The 

 round thickened edge of the ribbon contains the riper eggs, but the 

 thinner portion is well packed with maturing ova. Dehiscence takes 

 place by the breaking down of the superficial ectodermal invest- 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 755 



ment of Ihe gonad and the liberation of the eggs or spermatozoa 

 imbedded in its substance. The contractions of the umbrella in 

 swimming put a strain upon the subumbral walls and help to rup- 

 ture the epithelium of the gonads. What the cytological change is 

 which precedes the extrusion of the sexual elements or the nature of 

 the causes which effect this change are matters of uucerlainty. 

 We know only that these conditions can be artificially induced by- 

 means to be mentioned presently. The process of dehiscence occu- 

 pies only a very few moments. ]Most of the eggs which are ready 

 for fertilization are extruded all at once, coming out of the bell- 

 cavity in a cloud at each contraction of the marginal ring. Two 

 or three minutes after dehiscence begins only a few belated eggs 

 remain to be loosened from the gonads and expelled from the 

 subumbral cavity one at a time. PI. XXXI, fig. 5, is drawn 

 from a sketch of a medusa in the act of spawning. The specimen 

 was held inverted under the microscope in a watch-glass. 

 Althousrh not free to swim it went through the motions, contract- 

 ing the bell rhythmically. In this way the softened ectodermal 

 tissue of the gonads was ruptured and the eggs expelled. Little 

 round pits are left I'y the eggs, like bullet-molds. 



The earliest date at which fertile medusa; have been found was 

 the first of July ; the latest, the last week of September. The 

 period of maximum sexual activity is from Ihe middle of July to 

 the middle of August. 



B. Periodicity. — As stated by Murbach (1895), the eggs of 

 Ooino7ie>na are deposited with great regularity. During the earlier 

 part of the summer dehiscence takes place at about 8 P.M., but 

 later in the season, when dusk comes earlier, the medusae sjDawa 

 at 7 or even as early as a quarter past 6. Extrusion of the eggs 

 may be artificially induced. lu this respect Gonionema differs 

 markedly from some other marine animals which exhibit equal 

 definiteness in the spawning time. Dr. ]\Iurbach found that after 

 the medusfe had been shut up in a dark place for an hour, even dur- 

 ing the daytime, they would deposit eggs and sperm. jMy experi- 

 ments show that this is more likely to be the case in the afternoon 

 than earlier in the day; before 2 o'clock in the afternoon, an hour 

 in the dark would sometimes bring about a deposition of a small 

 number of eggs, and if the period was lengthened to an hour and 

 a half, a slightly larger number of eggs were found in the water. 




756 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



But after 2 o'clock the hour's shutting away from the light brought 

 about an apparently normal spawning. I found that the with- 

 drawal of light brings about surprisingly definite results. The 

 condition of the tissues arriyes at the point requisite for the release 

 of the eggs almost on the minute. This constancy is not appre- 

 ciably affected by moderate changes in the temperature. A large 

 number of experiments and obseryations haye been made to educe 

 the exact time of stimulation (if we may so speak of an influence 

 ■which seems to be purely uegatiye) and the results are summarized 

 in the following table. Record was kept of experiments carried 

 on during the whole of the fertile season, partly in one summer, 

 paitly in the next. The stimulation-time varies somewhat with 

 the season ; the table gives tbe results obtained during the last week 

 in July, when the eggs were being discharged in the greatest 

 numbers. 



Before 2 P.M. small number eggs laid after 90 minutes' darkening. 



2-3 " almost normal no. '' " " 75 " " 



3-4 " fully " " " " " 65 



4-5 " " " '■ " " " 60 



5_r, " ' " " " " " 60 " 



C-7 " " " '■ ■' " " 50 " " 



At 8 " eggs laid normally, without artiticial darkening. 



As the hour approached the normal lime for the deposition of the 

 eggs, the precision with which they were discharged became more 

 and more marked. Between 4 and 7 P.M. the lime of darkening 

 necessary to produce spawning does not vary more than four minutes 

 on either side of the hour. 



Some experiments were tried with a view to inhibiting the normal 

 deposition of eggs, or at least of hindering it, by keeping the eggs 

 in strong artificial light. The results were not conclusive, as the 

 electric lights in the laboratory were not in use until after dusk, 

 when part of the stimulus had already been received. The experi- 

 ments showed a certain degree of retarding of the process of spawn- 

 inw as a result of the strong illumination. It would be interesting 

 to determine whether the use of stronger light, applied at the 

 commencement of evening dusk, would result in complete inhibi- 

 tion of the process.* 



^ Subsequent experiments show tliat brilliant illumination has a stupe- 

 fying elTect on medusir, inhibiting contraction of ilie bell and almost 

 preventing spawning, though not altogether or in all instances. 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 757 



_ It is evident from the above slatements that Gonionema is exceed- 

 ingly sensitive to external conditions. Iv^ot all cojlenterates are 

 affected m the same degree, and some are apparentJv not affected 

 at all by changes m illumination. Some medusae always lay their 

 eggs early m the morning, while others of nearlv related genera 

 choose the evening or night. Experiments carried on bv Wilson 

 and Donaldson under Prof. Brooks' direction, at Beaufort N C 

 showed that in the case of Bemlla and some sea anemones, at anv 

 rate, changes m light and temperature did not affect the precision 

 with which the regular physiological processes took place. It is 

 well known that a great many marine animals show more or less 

 definiteuess in the habit of spawning. Metschnikoff gives a table" 

 showing the time of spawning of a large number of different creuera 

 of jelly-fishes. In other groups the same tendencv is manifest 

 Ihis phenomenon is probably the result of the working of natural 

 selection, the habit of laying the eggs at a certain definite time 

 having proved of value to the different species. The fact that in 

 some forms this precision of periodicity is not dependent upon 

 external influences, while in othe.^ there is manifest a marked 

 degree of sensitiveness to such stimula, seems to me to indicate 

 that the tendency has been arrived at bv different processes 

 and may be due to quite different requirements in the various 

 creatures. 



But to return to the dehiscence of Goyiionema : not aU the e<r.< 

 by any means, which the ovaries contain are liberated at one time' 

 Medusae have been seen to deposit eggs every night for a week, and 

 while specimens kept in captivity are not verv reliable in drawin- 

 inferences as to natural processes, this period of sexual activity 

 would ,t would seem, be more likely to be shortened than other- 

 wise by the unnatural conditions. After the first three or four 

 days on which spawning took place, a small number of ova were 

 left in the gonads, and on the three successive evenings these were 

 extruded a few at a time. Late in the summer the specimens 

 taken are usually devoid of sexual products, and the gonads small 

 and shriveled. 



a Efjg.Envelope.~ln freshly laid eggs the polar bodies are 

 only rarely to be found. They are normallv given off and lost in 

 the gonads prev imisJojIehiscence^_^efor^fer^^ the eggs ■ 




758 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Dec, 



float in a cloud through the water, each one surrounded by a very 

 soft thick gelatinous envelope. If the egg is not fertilized the 

 surrounding mass of semi-fluid jelly slowly shrinks up and the 

 increased specific gravity causes the egg to sink to the bottom. 

 Blister-like vacuoles appear in its substance, puffing out the jelly, 

 and in the course of several days the protoplasm becomes disinte- 

 grated and the egg goes to pieces. 



When fertilization takes place, the shrinking of the egg-envelope 

 is more immediate and greater in degree, so that the egg sinks at 

 once and sticks to the bottom by means of the \'iscid substance 

 surrounding it. 



Methods. — It may be well to digress at this point in order to 

 mention some of the methods employed in the preparation of 

 material. The adhesive property above referred to is of great 

 assistance in making mounts of the segmenting eggs, as they may 

 be allowed to settle on glass slides, which are afterward run up 

 through all the reagents, without danger of washing off. For sec- 

 tioning, the best Avay of securing the eggs was found to be by 

 stirring about in the water with a camel' s-hair brush and preventing 

 them from gluing themselves down to the bottom of the di.eli. Tliey 

 would then stick together in masses, and being protected from too 

 much pressure by the gelatinous covering, they were found to seg- 

 ment normally. The bunches of eggs were large enougti to see 

 with the unaided eye, and could be easily transferred to tlie killing 

 fluid, and afterward stained and cut. 



The best reagents that W'ere used for killing were corrosive-acetic, 

 three per cent, glacial-acetic in saturate solution of bichloride of 

 mercury, and the full strength (forty per cent.) solution of forma- 

 lin. Corrosive-acetic was satisfactory for most jnirposes, both 

 segmenting eggs and adult medusoe being fi.xcd in this mixtu'-e. 

 They were inunersed for from one to ten minutes, according to the 

 bulk of the tissues. Pure (forty per cent. ) formalin was u.sed 

 very successfully for the younger stages, giving good cytological 

 fixation of segmenting eggs and of larva3. Fifteen to forty 

 seconds is sutflcient to fix the tissues thoroughly. lu working with 

 Gonionema I have experienced none of the difficulty that seems to 

 be met with in other civlenterates in getting uniform results with 

 formalin material. I have used this reagent, both for fixation and 

 for permanent preservation, with the best results. For narcotizing 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 759 



the larvse and adult medusse, I find menthol crystals the most con- 

 venient and rapid chemical to use. 



It may be well to mention the method of keeping Gonionema 

 alive in the laboratory. Running water is not desirable, and it is 

 of no benefit to either medusse or larvfe to change the water fre- 

 quently, as I have learned after much laborious effort to keep the 

 specimens alive in this manner. Balanced aquaria furnish the best 

 environment for these creatures. I succeeded in keeping a large 

 number of hirvre in healthy growing condition for six months in 

 aquarium jars in the laboratory. The quantity of water was kept 

 constant by adding fresh water to make up for the loss by evapora- 

 tion. Food was ^furnished in the form of protozoans and other 

 microscopic organisms. Oxidation was secured by means of large 

 quantities of diatoms which were reared for the purpose. Cultures 

 were made from the scrapings of eel-grass, etc., and the diatoms 

 which accumulated from them, collecting in clumps on the bottom 

 of the dish, were scraped into the water with the larvse. At the 

 end of January, the polyps, which came from eggs laid the pre- 

 ceding August, died without undergoing metamorphosis. Their 

 death was probably due to a lack of food supply sufficient for the 

 requirements of their growing tissues. 



D. Segmentation. — The egg is spherical, averaging .07 mm. in 

 diameter. It consists of yellowish, rather cloud}' protoplasm, 

 sufficiently transparent to permit one to observe the more conspicu- 

 ous changes which take place in the substance of the living egg. 



Segmentation is total and equal, of the type which is designated 

 by Meischnikoff as " durschneidende Furchung." The cleavage- 

 furrow appears at one side of the egg first and cuts through its 

 substance until it reaches the opposite side, dividing it into two 

 hemispheres (PI. XXXI, fig. 6). The point at which the furrow 

 starts is that nearest the nucleus, which lies eccentrical!}' in tlie 

 granular substance of the egg. The first indication of the furrow 

 is a shallow groove, which deepens rapidly and at the same time 

 lengthens so as to embrace the egg meridianally. The furrow is 

 finally completed, superficially, a short time before it has entirely 

 separated the egg into two distinct halves. The last point to be 

 cut off corresponds in position almost exactly with the nucleus, but 

 on the opposite side of the egg. The first cleavage is completed 

 one hour after fertilization. The two daughter-nuclei now lie at 




760 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Dec, 



tlie plane of fissioH, and at llie same distance from the surface of 

 the egg as the original nucleus. The second furrow normally starts 

 on the same point of the surface as the first, and again divides the 

 egg meridianallv in a plane at right angles to the first. Sometimes 

 the second furrow starts irregularl}-, at a point around the egg 

 from the origin of Ihe first furrow. One of the hemispheres is 

 thus divided before the other, as in fig. 7. Fifty minutes elapses 

 between the completion of the first and second furrows. Succes- 

 sive segmentations come in at intervals of forty-five to fifty minutes. 



With the eight-cell stage rotation of the blastomeres occurs. The 

 four upper cells turn through an angle of 45° upon the lower ones, 

 so that they come to lie in the valleys between the lower ones, 

 instead of being superimposed upon them. Segmentation continues 

 until a hollow blastula (PI. XXXI, fig. 8) is produced, a layer of 

 thick cells surrounding a small cleavage cavity. The cells are of 

 uniform thickness, and their outer ends give rise to cilia which 

 drive the egg round and round by their motion within the mem- 

 brane, sometimes in one dii'ection, sometimes in the opposite. 



During this stage the formation of the endoderm takes place. The 

 inner ends of the blastomeres are delaminated, the process going 

 on at an e(pial rate on all sides, until a uniform layer of endoderm 

 cells lies within the ectodermal layer (PI. XXXI, fig. 9). By 

 increase in size of these eudoderma! 'cells the cavity of the egg 

 comes to be entirely obliterated. During tlie subsequent life- 

 history of the larva no cavity exisis witliin the body until after 

 several marked changes have taken place. 



The Planula. 



Bv the rupture of the egg membrane the nearly spherical 

 ciliated larva makes its escape, and starts upon the stage in which 

 it is a swimming planula (PI. XXXI, fig. 10). Its shajje soon 

 changes, becoming narrower and longer at one pole than the other ; 

 this narrower pole is to be the future oral extremity of the larva. 

 The cilia serve to proi)el the planula in a slow rotating progression 

 through the water, usually not far fronS the bottoni. The larger 

 end is directed forward in swimming. The time at which the 

 planula appears Is in the morning, about twelve hours after the 

 egg was fertilized. The length of the larva is now between . 1 

 and .15 mm. (PI. XXXI, fig. 10). This condition pei-sists for a 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 761 



varying time. Toward the end of this time the first indications of 

 a ccelenteric cavity apjiear in the arrangement ot the cells at the 

 posterior end of the swimming larva (PI. XXXI, fig. 11, P). 

 Their inner margins come to lie in a straight line, following the 

 long asis of the larva (PI. XXXI, fig. 11, C). This process is 

 better understood when we notice that in changing its shape from 

 the spherical morula to the elongated planula the larva also under- 

 went a slight rearrangement of its cells. The endoderm was first 

 formed as a spherical mass, and its cells were all conical, radiating 

 from the centre to the surface. But as elongation took place in 

 the formation of the planida, the cells were stretched out into a 

 cylinder and their inner ends overlapped irregularly, as is shown 

 at the anterior end (^) of fig. 11. ■ When the coelenteron begins 

 to be developed, the inner ends of these upper endodermal cells 

 change their position somewhat and, as above stated, meet along a 

 continuous line. At the same time a change is to be noticed in the 

 cells at the surface of the oral pole. The cell walls at this point 

 become less distinct (PI. XXXI, fig. 11, 0), and finally a disin- 

 tegration of the boundaries leaves the tissue an undifferentiated 

 layer of protoplasm. Before separation of the tissue to form the 

 definitive ccelenteric cavity, the larva stops swimming, loses its cilia, 

 and settles down upon the bottom. The larger end, which was 

 directed forward in swimming, is downward. Between the free- 

 swimming stage and the sessile hydi-a-stage there frequently, 

 though not always, intervenes a condition which reminds one of a 

 minute plauarian in its shape and movements. The planula settles 

 down upon the bottom and slowly glides along by a rhythmic wave- 

 )ike progression. This condition seems to take the place of the last 

 part of the ordinary and evidently more normal free-swimming 

 stage, and is perhaps due to the unfavorable conditions of the 

 laboratory. This condition is not at all like the pathological 

 plasmodial forms to be mentioned below. Its changes in shape are 

 slight, and ils manner of movement rather a glide than a proto- 

 plasmic flowing None of the defiuiteness of structure is lost, and 

 these larvse transform into hydras as soon as those whicli change 

 directly from the free-swimming planulre. It is, then, not a 

 pheuonaenon of degeneration, nor, on the other hand, an essential 

 phase in the life of the animal, but rather an intermediate and 

 probably accidental condition. 




762 proceedings of the academy of [dec., 



The Hydra. 



As soon as the planula-stage has giveu place to the settled hydra- 

 stage the coelenteron becomes complete. The mouth appears at the 

 free end where the tissue has previously showed indications of dis- 

 integration, al the end of the axial line formed by the endodermal 

 cells. At fii-st the mouth is visible only when the specimens are 

 killed and cleared or sectioned. Soon, however, it becomes large 

 enough to see in the live animal by focussing down from above with 

 a high-power lens. It then appears as a minute pit in the ecto- 

 derm. The ccelenteron is more distinct at the upper end than 

 below, where it disappears into the loosely constituted cell-mass of 

 the interior. The definite cavity of the ccelenteron is .somewhat 

 later in making its appearance. When finally established it is 

 lined with a thick layer of columnar endodermal epithelium. At 

 its bottom it flares out in following the contour of the body -wall, 

 as it appears in PI. XXXII, fig. 15, which shows a late stage, 

 but the same condition of the coelenteron as exists in the newly 

 transformed larva. The figure also shows a thickened core of 

 endoderm which projects upward into the ccelenteron as a gastric 

 peduncle. This conical mass of cells develops during the latter 

 part of the hydra-stage. 



A. Tentacle-?. — In the later transformation of the developing 

 Gonionema no definitely determinate periods separate the times of 

 active change. The development time is variable, depending upon 

 external conditions of food, temperature, etc. In an average 

 larva, however, the first tentacles make their appearance during the 

 third week after the fertilization of the egg, or a week after the 

 larva becomes attached. Two tentacles appear opposite one another 

 at a level about one-quarter of the distance from the upper pole of 

 the hydra (PI. XXXII, fig. 12). They are knob-like when they 

 appear, but grow rapidly to a considerable length, the few endo- 

 dermal cells which form the core of each tentacle increasing in 

 number. Fig. 12 shows a vertical .section of a Iwo-tcntacled polyp 

 of the fifth week. The manner of origin of the tentacles will be 

 described in the section on the origin of tentacles under ' ' The 

 Medusa." 



The second pair of tentacles (PI. XXXII, fig. 14) appear soou 

 after the first, and by their rapid growth soou become as large as 

 the first pair, from which they are then no longer distinguishable. 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 763 



Irregularilies are common in the appearance of the tentacles of the 

 polyp, as in the adult. It frequently happens that only one of the 

 second pair ever makes its appearance. Or one may be slow in 

 arising, and always remain smaller than the other. On the other 

 hand, an abuormallv large number are freijuently rleveloped, indi- 

 viduals with five or six being not uncommonly found (PL XXXII, 

 fig. 13). 



B. Form, of Cceknteron. — The appearance of the tentacles is 

 accompanied by alterations in the form of the ca'lenteric cavity. 

 The rapid growth of the cells at the points where the tentacles arise 

 and the outpushing of the tissue in the process seem to affect the 

 contour of the body -wall 

 over a considerable area, so 

 that diverticula of the ccelen- 

 teron and of the mouth 

 extend in the direction of 

 each of the tentacles. A 

 stellate arrangement results, 

 the mouth being in the 

 form of a cross. This cor- 

 responds exactly with the 

 condition in the medusa, 

 especially in young speci- 

 mens (PI. XXXIII, fig. 

 19), in which the twisting 

 which in older individuals 

 obscures somewhat the true 

 relation of parts has not yet 

 taken place. In the three- 

 or five-tentacled hydra the number and arrangement of the oral 

 lobes corresponds with the number and arrangement of the tenta- 

 cles. Fig. 13, PI. XXXII, represents a polyp with five radial parts, 

 in which one lobe of the mouth is bifurcated. This condition is 

 very similar to that frequently met with in adult meduste (text fig. 

 1). The whole aspect of the hypostome of the Gonionema polyp 

 is very similar to that of the manubrium of the young medusa. 

 The ectoderm at the edges of the mouth becomes thickened and 

 armed with nematocysts, which have by this time made their ap- 

 pearance, in a manner to be described later, over a large part of 



Fig. 1. 

 Aliuormal five-parted medusa, sliow- 

 mg agreement in plan between oral lobes 

 and radial canals. 




764 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC. , 



the body of the hydra. Below the mouth the hypostome becomes 

 narrow and tubular and distinct from the rest of the body, a decided 

 angle separating them at the level of the tentacles. 



Habits. 



One of the most striking habits of the adult jelly-fkh is its pre- 

 hensile propensity. The adhesive organ at the "knee" of the 

 tentacle is composed of long sleuder glandular cells, packed into a 

 thick cushion which is inclosed within a strongly muscular rim or 

 collar (PI. XXXIII, fig. 20). This organ is located on the aboral 

 side of the tentacle. When at rest the jelly-fish lies on the bottom 

 with inverted bell, the tentacles widely extended horizontally and 

 attached to the bottom by means of the combined cement glaud 

 and vacuum cup near the tip (PI. XXXI, fig. 3). How this habit 

 of inverting itself could have come to be acquired primarily by the 

 adult medusa it is hard to see. But if, as I shall give my rea-sous 

 for believing, the medu.sa arises by direct metamorphosis from the 

 hydra, the habits of the hydra would naturally be more or less per- 

 manent in the adult. It may be that this particular habit is more 

 likely to be first acquired by the larva thau by the adult. The 

 tentacles of the hydra reach a relative length greater than in the 

 case of any other known hydroid polyp. They frequently stretch 

 out in the water for a distance three or four times the height of 

 the polyp. Fig. 14, PI. XXXII, shows a hydra with the tentacles 

 fully extended, their tips touching the ground in the characteristic 

 attitude. The drooping of the tentacles is evidently caused by their 

 extraordinary length, and is almost as unusual an occurrence among 

 the hydromedusse. At the points where the tips of the tentacles 

 come in contact with the bottom they spread out .somewhat, forming 

 a .sole-like surface which is closely applied to whatever object the 

 polyp is settled upon (PI. XXXII, tig. 14). This smearing out 

 of the tentacle tips is like that which occui-s in live specimens of 

 hydra held between slide and cover-glass for examination. Both 

 polyp and medusa remain when at rest with the mouth expanded, 

 the manubrium stretching upward, the tentacles widely extended 

 and droopiug to the bottom. When an animal swims against one of 

 the tentacles, the reactions are much the same in the polyp as in the 

 adult. The feeding habits of Gonionema have been described at 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 765 



length by Yerkes.' His account would apply almost as well to the 

 process in the hydra. The tentacle which comes in contact with the 

 prey is contracted with a suddeuness and vigor which belies the ap- 

 parent inertia of the moment before. The victim is seen to be firmly 

 spitted on the microscopic lances of the nematocysts, and it is evident 

 that the first thing that happened when the animal touched the 

 tentacle was the discharge of all the thread cells iu that region. 

 The tentacle in contracting carries the food, protozoan or minute 

 worm, or whatever, toward the mouth. The long manubrium then 

 moves about slightly as if in search of the morsel. Finally the 

 tentacle places the food directly upon the mouth (PI. XXXII, fig. 

 16), which proceeds to turn itself over the object and work it down- 

 ward until it vanishes into the gastric pouch of the polyp. 



Degeneration Phenomena.' 



For some reason or othei', not understood at present, the larvae 

 in one of my aquarium jars began when three months old to 

 exhibit most singular forms and activities. All appearance of the 

 hydra form was lost, ectoderm and endoderm becoming indistin- 

 guishable and cell outlines dissolved. The larva in this condition 

 had very much the appearance of an amoeba. The specimens 

 slumped down on the bottom of the aquarium in a shapeless mass, 

 and by protoplasmic flowing changed their shape through an end- 

 less variety of forms, moving slowly from point to point. Thin 

 pseiidopodia were sent out, aloug which the substance of the organ- 

 ism flowed, and by the breaking of the connecting isthmus divided 

 into two. Th(! fragments became smaller and smaller until no 

 longer recognizable. These abnormal larvse remained alive for six 

 weeks, after which no trace of them was to be seen. 



Budding in the Larv^ — Metagenesis.' 



Contrary to Haeckel's statement that in the group of jelly-fish 

 which he calls the " Trachomedusss " metagenesis does not occur, in 



' R. M. Yekkes, "The Sensory Reactious of Gonionemus," Am. Journ. 



Physiology, Februar}', 1902. 



' More fully described iu the Biological Bulletin of the Marine Biologi- 

 cal Laboratory, Woods Uole, August, 1902. 



" All earlier draft of this section appeared in the Johns Eopkins Univer- 

 sity Circulars, June, 1902. 




766 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Dec, 



Gonionema, which falls into that group, this process does take 

 place. By a form of non-sexual multiplication different from any 

 which has previously been described for any member of the hydro- 

 medusre, an intermediate process of reproduction is introduced into 

 the life-history of Gonionema, whereby a large number of adulls 

 are produced from a single egg. Asexual multiplication in the 

 larvae of Scyphomedusre has been known since 1841, when Bars saw 

 and described the formation of buds iu a scyphistoma of uncertain 

 identity, but probably either an Aurelia or a Cyanea. Since that 

 time several analogous cases have been made known. The scy- 

 phistoma larvfe of Cassiopea, for example, were found producing 

 eggs in large numbers by Bigelow (1900), who gives a detailed 

 account of the method of budding in a monograph on this Rhizo- 

 stome. It may be further stated that in general the non -sexual 

 process of production of buds by the larvoe is an importaut 

 method of multiplication among the Discomedusse. The buds 

 usually develop, after detachment from the parent polyp, into a 

 second generation of scypliistomas, identical iu form and fate with 

 the original ones. Buds may arise on the body of the scyphistoma, 

 or upon stolons from its base, and either singly or several at a 

 time. In Cotylorhiza the buds develop so rjipidly and remain 

 attached so long that large clusters accumulate about the base of 

 the scyphistoma. According to some authors, Goette for example, 

 the distal end' of the bud in Aurelia and Cyanea is destined to 

 become the oral end of the detached larva, developing mouth and 

 tentacles. Friedemann, on the other hand, says" that in Aurelia he 

 has found the opposite condition, the mouth being invariably devel- 

 oped at the attached end of the bud. This is the common relation 

 in other forms. 



In Cunina, which fulls into Ilaeckel's order the " Narcome- 

 dus£e," the ciliated tentacled larva multiplies by buds produced 

 from an aboral stolon. These buds are not detached until mouth, 

 digestive cavity and tentacles arc well developed. Several are pro- 

 duced simultaneously, and are attached to the parent by the oral 

 extremity. The description of this remarkable process is given 

 by Prof. W. K. Brooks in The Life-IIidory of the IlydromedasoB 

 (1886). 



"o Postembryonal Entw. von Aurelia aurita, Zeilteh. f. n. Zoologie, 

 LXxKI, 2, 1902. 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 767 



It is my purpose in this section to give an account of a process of 

 budding in a medusa very different from Cunuia, one in which 

 the asexual muhiplication takes place very differently. lu Gonio- 

 nema the buds are produced in a manner which reminds one very 

 strongly of the similar process in Cassiopea. 



lu the coui-se of my general study of the development of 

 Gonionema I came upon the budding larva (text figs. 2-10). From 

 a lot of eggs obtained at Woods Hole, in August, 1901, a large 

 number of polyps developed and were kept alive in a balanced 

 aquarium for several months. This lot was left at Woods Hole in 

 as nearly natural conditions as possible until the last of November. 

 The water was kept fresh by frequently renewed supplies of dia- 

 toms and ulva, and occasionally changed by carefully adding a 

 quantity taken from the natural habitat of the medusa in the eel- 



Fig. 2. 

 Five moutlis old polyp witli bud just forming. 



pond. A low temperafure was maintained. When these larvse 

 were received from Woods Hole C November 28) they were appar- 

 ently thriving well. They had all settled upon the Minot watch- 

 glasses which had been placed in the bottoms of the dishes. These 

 were easily removed without disturbing their contents. The watch- 

 glasses were numbered and the positions of the polyps carefully 

 noted aud mapped. Successive examinations showed that the 

 number of polyps was increasing, and on December 3 it was seen 

 that one or two of the largest specimens had rounded knob-like 

 bodies upon them; these were at once recognized as buds. The 

 specimens were examined as frequently as it was thought safe to 

 remove them from the jar, and camera drawings were made of the 

 growing buds. Observations were made of the differeqt stages in 

 the development of fourteen buds ; their phases agreed in all the 

 main particulars. 




768 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [Dec, 



The first indication of the appearance of a bud upon any indi- 

 vidual polyp was a rounded eminence upon the hydrocaulus (fig. 

 2 ) . It was usually located at a level about half-way between the 

 base of the polyp and the ring of tentacles, as in the figure, and 

 iuterradially — i.e., at the end of a radius which bisects the angle 

 between two tentacles (fig. 6). Never more than a single bud 

 appeared at one time uj)on any polyp. 



All three body-layers — ectoderm, endoderm and mesogloea — of 

 the parent are involved in Ihe formation of the bud. The cells 

 of both ectoderm and endoderm multiply rapidly in the region 

 of the wall of the polyp where the bud is about to be formed. 

 The endoderm pushes out as a I'ouuded protuberance, covered 

 by the ectoderm in a layer of constant thickness (fig. 3). A 



Fig. 3. Fig. 4. 



Same bud eight hours old. Bud one day old. 



thin supporting lamella of mesogloea lies between the two. As 

 the bud increases in size it bulges out at its ba,se, around the 

 stalk which connects it with the polyp, and it also develops rapidly 

 at the tip of the free end. In this way it becomes pear-shaped 

 (fig. 4). As the drawings indicate, the ectoderm is of the same 

 thickness in the bud as in the parent (rig. 3). Indeed, so nicely 

 regulated is the rate of growth of the two tissue-layei-s that the 

 thickness of the ectoderm does not change appreciably during the 

 entire growth of the bud, previous to its detachment. The cells of 

 the endoderm arc irregular, loo.sely couslituled and coai"sely granu- 

 lar, and their walls are hardly discernible. No cavity exists in 

 the bud until considerably later. The endoderm of- the bud now 

 becomes separated from that of tlie parent, by the constriction of the 

 ectoderm and the cutting off of the core of endoderm whicii filled 

 it. Its appearance is as represented in fig. ."), an isthmus of clear 

 elastic ectodermal tissue uniting the bud to the parent. By rapid 




1902.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



769 



centrifugal growth the bud becomes sausage-shaped, and as long 

 as the diameter of the polyp (fig. 6). Soon after the bud reaches 

 the stage shown in this figure, it becomes detached from the polyp. 



Fig. 5. 

 Bud three days old. En- 

 doderm isolated from that 

 of parent by constriction of 

 ectoderm. 



Fig. 6. 



Bud four days old. Ready for de- 

 tachment. Showing interradial posi- 

 tion. 



In only one instance was I so fortunate as to see this process 

 taking place. In this individual the bud was drawn out into a 

 long finger-like body, its distal end drooping almost to the ground. 

 Soon the ectodermal isthmus began to stretch out and dwindle in 

 diameter, until it was merely a thin stem of transparent protoplasm 

 (fig. 7). The bud seemed to be reaching out and trying to free 



Fig. 7. 

 Another individual. Bud in 

 process of detachment, showing 

 elongated ectodermal isthmus. 



Fig. 8 

 Same bud fifteen minutes later. 

 Bud settling down on distal end. 



itself from the limitations of its connection with the parent. This 

 stretching of the isthmus was brought about by constriction of the 

 tubular ectoderm, as by circular muscle fibres. When this stretch- 

 49 




"70 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Dec, 



ing had gone on imtil the isthmus was a quarter as long as the 

 entire bud (fig. 7), it began to grow still thinner at its middle, 

 and finally, just half an hour after it first began to stretch out, it 

 broke in two and the bud fell away from the parent (fig. 8). The 

 two ends of the connecting stalk shrank back into the tissues of the 

 bud and of the parent, appearing for a time as minute points of 

 protoplasm, as in the drawing. After separation from the polyp 

 this particular bud settled down at once upon the previously free 

 or distal end, and began an independent existence (fig. 9). Other 



Fig. 9. 

 Detached larva, just settled 

 down, three days after detach- 

 ment. 



Fig. 10. 

 The same four days later, 

 ectoderm thickened. 



Basal 



observations, however, indicate that the u.sual course of develop- 

 ment IS slightly at variance with this instance, and that it includes 

 a motile jjeriod of from three to four days, intervening between 

 the detachment of the bud and its settling do«Ti as a hydra. A 

 bud which was growing upon the body-wall one day would be gone 

 the next, and for some time could not be found. Then it would 

 suddenly apjiear in some previously vacant spot, at a distance from 

 the polyp, perhaps in an entirely different watch-glii.ss on the 

 bottom of the aquarium, with its tentacles just beginning to 

 appear. In one case the bud was drawn and measured when it 

 seemed to have reached its full size and to be ready to drop off. 

 This was done one evening, and the next morning "no bud was to 

 be seen upon the parent polyp. Three days afterward a small 

 polyp was found upon a .sp(jt which certainly had been unoccupied 

 up to that time, according to diagrams made at short intervals. 

 This was a larva like that in fig. 10. It was measured, and 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 771 



although somewhat different in shape, as nearly as one could esti- 

 mate its bulk, it corresponded exactlj' with the bud which had dis- 

 appeared. Similar observations were so numerous that it seems 

 unavoidable to consider the motile form a normal phase in the 

 non-sexual as in the sexual process of multiplication. The precise 

 nature of this intermediate condition is not yet determined. It 

 seems probable that it is a creeping unciliated form, although my 

 first conjecture, that it was a ciliated planula, has not yet been 

 proven erroneous." This peculiar phase is an interesting case of 

 reversion in the non-sexually developed larva to a condition earlier, 

 in point of ontogenetic order, than that of the parent at the time 

 of budding. 



The subsequent history of the bud has been definitely followed. 

 After settling down upon the boltom it repeats the changes which 

 occur in the sexually produced polyp. The newly arisen larva 

 (fig. 9) loses its planula shape, becoming shorter and thicker, espe- 

 cially at the base, on account of the plastic character of the tissues 

 (fig. 10). It has now secured a firm hold upon the bottom, being 

 so closely applied that it is quite hard to dislodge it. The cells 

 at the base increase in thickness until they form a columnar epithe- 

 lium. After the first day a slight pit indicates the point at which 

 the coelenteron is to open externally. This process, as observed in 

 a number of cases, is exactly the same as in the sexually produced 

 polyp. The tentacles also make their appearance in the same 

 manner as described for the hydra which developed from the egg. 



The length of time required for the complete development of a 

 bud, from its first appearance on the hydrocaulus of the parent as 

 a simple knob until the completion of the formation of the coelente- 

 ron and the appearance of the tentacles, is from ten to fourteen 

 days: (a) the first period, including as far as the detachment of 

 the bud, 5 days; (b) motile form, 2 to 4 days; (c) from attach- 

 ment to appearance of tentacles, 3 to 5 days. These periods refer, 

 of course, to specimens in captivity. 



PI. XXXI [, fig. 17, shows a specimen from an entirely different 

 lot of polyps from those which exhibited the budding phenomena 

 shown in the text figures. This polyp was killed when 2.3 days old. 

 It may not be a normal individual, but as it shows a tendency to 

 divide transversely it seems worth while to call attention to it. The 



" Perkins, loc. cit. 




772 PKOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Dec, 



coelenteron has completely divided iuto two, and the endodermal 

 wall of the pouch has grown in as a solid partition between the two 

 new pouches. The aboral portion of the bod\', or hydrocaulus, is 

 seen to be considerably longer than is usually the. csise. It is 

 interesting to compare, in this connection, Dr. Murbach's account'^ 

 of the transverse fission of Hijpolijtm. 



Transformation of the Polyp. 



Up to the present time all efforts to secure sj)tciinens of the 

 larval Gonionema in their natural habitat have been welluigh 

 fruitless. Although the eggs are laid in euormou.s numbers during 

 four to six weeks of tlie summer, and even when kept in the 

 laboratory a large proportion develop, it has yet been impossible to 

 find the polyps in the eel-pond where the medusas are so plentiful. 

 Many sjseculations have been hazarded as to the coudiliou in which 

 the larvoe pass the cold mouths of winter, and no small energy and 

 time have been expended in attempting to get at the secret. And 

 yet I am much more ready to believe that the difliculty has been 

 with our methods of searcii than that any extraordinary trans- 

 formation in form or change in habitat sliould render the success of 

 such search impossible. This seems the more likely from the fact 

 that during the summer when the medasa} are laying their eggs 

 most plentifully, and within a few days after an egg is laid it has 

 developed into a fixed polyp with tentacles, the extreme minute- 

 ness of size and transparency of substance of the polyps hide them 

 completely ; and yet they must be present in great numbers on the 

 stones and in the mud at the bottom of the eel-pond. Very few 

 specimens have been found, although careful search has been made 

 by others than myself. It is quite out of the (juestiou to suppose 

 that the larvte which develop into the medusae appearing each 

 year in great numbers in the eel-pond, have undergone their triiii.'*- 

 formatiou in deep water, having been swept out to sea from their 

 birthplace. In such case the adults would appear in much wider 

 range of habitat — in some of the bays and inlets of -the coast where 

 the conditions seem almost the .same ;us in the eel-pond. The fact 

 is that only a few stragglers are ever found in the vicinity, not 



" L. McRBACa, Hydroids from Wood's Hole," Quarterly Journal, Vol. 

 XLII, Pt. 3. 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 773 



more Ihaii would be swept out of the shallow water by the tide. 

 Not only these considerations, but all the other indications seem to 

 point to a direct transformation of the polyp to the adult gonosome 

 without leaving the eel-pond. The habit of the polyp of resting 

 with tentacles extended and adhering to the bottom, the feeding 

 reactions, the form of coelenteron, manubrium and oral opening, 

 the manner of origin of the tentacles, all resemble the correspond- 

 ing conditions in the adult so closely that it is easy to regard this as 

 the most likely theory. May it not be that the same type of 

 metamorphosis as that which lakes place in Liriope (Brooks, 1895) 

 is passed through in this genus as well ? In Liriope the coelente- 

 ron is transformed into the system of chimiferous tubules by the 

 growth of fusion areas which unite the upper and lower walls of 

 the cavity, except where they are to be left separate along the lines 

 of the canals. PI. XXXII, fig. 18, is a camera drawing of a 

 twelvp-tentacled gonosome of Gonionema, which has very much 

 the appearance of the newly metamorphosed Liriope." The trans- 

 formations which are necessary to bring about the adult from the 

 larval form are a change in the coelenteron to a system of tubes; 

 the centralizing of the diffuse nervous system to form the two 

 nerve-rings; the appearance of new tentacles provided with adhe- 

 sive disks, and of tentacles modified to the form of sense-organs, 

 from the expanded tentacular ring; and the growth of the velum. 

 The relative size of the fully developed polyp and the youngest 

 medusa offers no contradiction to such a conception of direct meta- 

 morphosis; if the polyp grows as rapidly in ihe natural environ- 

 ment of the eel-pond as in the laboratory, even allowing for a long 

 period of absolute quiescence during the cold weather, ihe discrcf)- 

 ancy in size is easily accounted for. 



Youngest Medus.e — Arrangement of Tentacles and 

 Sense-Organs. 



During the last of June, 1900, a number of very small speci 

 mens of Gonionema were taken in a tow net at the surface of the 

 eel-pond. Several of these had sixteen tentacles, some had twelve, 

 one had only eight. A careful study of these very young and 

 evidently recently metamorphosed gonosomes has brought out some 

 exceedingly interesting points. 



"Brooks, 1893, PI. 41 ; Haeckel, Die Musselqualle/i, PI. 12. 




774 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



Hargitt, in his paper, Variations Among Hydromedtisce, discusses 

 the arrangement of tentacles in Gonionema. He approaches the 

 question as a student of variations, and unfortunately lacks the 

 young material from which I have found it possible to educe very 

 definite rules in ihe arrangement of marginal organs and their 

 order of appearance. As a natural result Hargitt comes to the 

 conclusion that so much irregularity occurs as to render it impos- 

 sible to discover any definite order of appearance or ultimate 

 arrangement in these organs. It is true that the abnormal speci- 

 mens which he studied most closely do show very little regularity, 

 as would indeed be expected. But in normal individuals quite a 

 remarkable degree of precision is manifest in the position and order 

 of appearance of tentacles and sense-organs, with reference to each 

 other and with reference also to previously arisen organs of the 

 same kind. This is particularly true in the younger stages. 



If we examine the eight-tentacled medusa the following points 

 are noticeable: First, the tentacles are evidently of two cycles, 

 in order of appearance. The four at the ends of the radial canals, 

 or the peiradials, are equal in size, aud larger than the four 

 interradiab, which are also of eijual size. These tentacles arc 

 very similar in appearance and structure to the larval tentacles, and 

 there seems little reason why the larger perradials may not be the 

 permanent larval tentacles." 



Second, the sense-organs are four in number and placed in defi- 

 nite positions, relative to the tentacles. If we look at the bell- 

 margin from the oral side, the newly arisen tentaclas in the four 

 quadrants have apparently crowded in between the sen.se-organ and 

 the perradial tentacle, which comes before it :is the hands of a 

 watch go. Fig. 11 shows this stage, and is made from a camera 

 drawing of the eight-tentacled medusa. The relation which 

 is here exhibited in the youngest stage of the free-swimming 

 gonosome is the same throughout the growth of the medusa : 

 wherever a rudimentary or neioly arisen tentacle lies on the bell- 

 margin, it will alivays, normally, be found to lie jiist in front of a 

 neidy arisen aetuse-organ, atid jud after a larger tentacle, i.e., one of 

 an earlier cycle. 



Much has been written to sliow that cojlenterates, and especially 



"This conclusion is strengthened by work done since this paper was 

 written. 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 775 



members of the hydrozoa, show bilateral symmetrj', either in the 

 normal condition or when they depart from the normal form and 

 may be supposed to revert to a more primitive type (jNIayer, 1901, 

 e.g.). Gonionema shows a very different plan from that of 

 bilateral symmetry. It is rather a certain sort of radial symmetry 

 which has nothing bilateral about it — one in which the radial parts 

 correspond exactly to each other, and are superimposable, but none 

 of which is the reflected image of any other. I shall call this rela- 

 tion one of cyclic symmet)~y. With reference to the order of ap- 

 pearance of the marginal organs I shall speak of cyclic sequence. 



Fig. 11. 



These terms were suggested by Prof. ^lorley, of the mathematical 

 department of Johns Hopkins University. 



New tentacles make their appearance four at a time, or, so to 

 speak, in quartets; they are 90° apart, so that they occupy iden- 

 tical positions in the four quadrants of the marginal ring. But 

 while the tentacles, and the sense-organs as well, appear to rise in 

 fours, the condition in the larva, and in frequent instances among 

 the adults, indicates that a paired origin is more primitive and 

 fundamental. It is the rule in the early larvae that two tentacles 

 appear opposite to one another (PI. XXXII, fig. 12), and later 




776 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Dec, 



the second pair of the quartette. It often happens that in the 

 adult medusa two members of a quartette, in opposite quadrants, 

 are retarded in making their appearance. In Aurelia Claus 

 established the theory that while the larval tentacles seem to come 

 in fours after the earliest stage, the first four teutacles appear first 

 two, then two more, as is the case in Gonionema {v. Glaus, 

 1892). Goetle (1887) has examined a great number of specimens 

 of the younger stages of Aurelia, and has come to the same gen- 

 eral conclusion as Claus with regard to the primitive paired condi- 

 tion and the significance of tliis in the philogeny. Haeckel 

 (1881), however, regards the appearance of two tentacles in 

 advance of the second two as an accidental and insignificant occur- 

 rence; he takes four for the primary number. While this tendency 

 to a paired origin of the tentacles disappears after the earliest 

 stages in Aurelia, Gonionema exhibits this tendency in frequent 

 instances during the whole life of the animal. Its occurrence in 

 the appearance of the .^euse-organs is of the same significance, 

 because, as will be pointed out below, these organs are modified 

 tentacles. PI. XXXIII, fig. 19, shows this condition in the sense- 

 organs, quadrants A and C having five, while in quadrants B and 

 D only four are developed. It is true that other variations than 

 these do occur in the appearance of the tentacles and sense- 

 organs in the adult, and of the tentacles of the larva. Polyps 

 with three, five or six tentacles are not uncommon (PI. XXXII, 

 fig. 13). It is noticeable that departures from the normal number 

 correspond very closely in poly])s and adults. This would be 

 expected from the evidence that the larval tentacles are permanent, 

 and that they determine the position of the four radial canals in 

 the normal me(lu.sa, or of the three, five or six in aberrant speci- 

 mens. This inference seems a likely one from the fact that in the 

 adult medusjE the tentacles which, from their larger size, are pre- 

 sumably of the first cycle are always, normally, located at the ends 

 of the radial canals. The inference is that five-parted medusa 

 were five-tentacled polyps. This is borne out by comparison of the 

 relative numbers of each kind of variation among medusiE and 

 among polyps. Ilargitt (1001) has tabulated the number of 

 mcdusie that have come under his notice having three, five and six 

 radial canals; and he finds thai about five per cent, are irregular 

 in this regard, i.e., vary from the normal four-parted condition. 




1902.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



777 



While I have not had a great number of specimens of the polyps 

 from which (o compute averages, my counts show quite a striking 

 similarity lo those which are given by Dr. Hargitt for the adults. 



Among all the varieties of geometrical figures which appear in 

 the arrangement of parts among the various orders of coelenterates, 

 there is none, so far as I can find, which is at all comparable with 

 that which appears in the arrangement of tentacles and sense- 

 organs in Oonionema. The only suggestion of such a plan of 

 arrangement as this is given in a paper on the later development of 

 Aiirelia, by Friedemann (1902). In the course of the paper this 

 author describes the origin of the eight teutacles which follow the 

 first eight. Four of these appear at once, the other four later. In 

 the appearance of the first four, two possibilities arise, according to 

 Friedemann. Either the four arise in bilaterally symmetrical 



Fig. 13. Fig. 13. 



positions in the four quadrants, the two halves of the tentacle-ring 

 being reflected images one of the other, and the new tentacles ap- 

 pearing one on either side of the two opposite perradial tentacles 

 (fig. 12) ; or else they appear in identical positions in the four 

 quadrants, one appearing next in front of each perradial tentacle, 

 as the hands of a watch move (fig. 13). Friedemann's figures do 

 not make it clear that he actually found specimens in exactly this 

 stage. It appears more probable that he interpreted older stages 

 by this theory. But it may easily be true that in other groups 

 than that to which Gonionema belongs the tentacles originate 

 according to a plan of cyclic symmetry, or that such a condition 

 sometimes appears, irregularly, as may be the case in Aurelia. In 

 Gonionema the rule holds with remarkable constancy. 




778 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



From a study of successive stages of growing raedusse the follow- 

 ing table is compiled to show the relation in time of appeai'anee of 

 tentacles and sense-organs. The numbers in brackets in the column 

 of sense-organs indicate half-quartettes, the corresponding pair in 

 each case having been delayed in appearance. Since the sense- 

 organs are only half as numerous as the tentacles, they appeal- 

 with half the rapidity, and are therefore more frequently found in 



Tentacles. 

 f 3 



Larval 



12 

 16 

 26' 

 24' 

 Adult- 28' 

 32' 



Sense-Organs. 

 ... (2) 

 ... 4 

 ... (G) 

 ... 8 

 ...(10) 

 , .. 13 

 ...(14) 

 ,.. 16 

 ...(18) V 



36 

 40 



44 

 48' 



. 20 

 .(22) 

 . 24 



this condition of incomplete quartettes. That is, if a jelly-fish 

 were killed when the tentacles and sense-organs were in the 

 precise stage indicated by the line a b, for instance, the fifth 

 quartette of sen.se-organs would be found only half formed— five 

 sense-organs appearing in two opposite quadrants, and only four in 

 the other two. This is just the condition which exists in the speci- 

 men shown m PI. XXXII, fig. 19. The numbers inrlicating the 

 sense-organs are put at the intervals between tho.se indicating ten- 

 tacles, to show that while the eight tentacles between the eight- 

 tentacled and the sixteen-lentacled stages, for instance, are appear- 

 ing, the four sense-organs which make up the second (piadnint arc 

 appearing. 



Another rule is followed by the marginal organs in their order of 




1902.]' NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 779 



appearance. Each new lentacle arises not only just iu front of a 

 sense-organ, but in a definite relation to the older tentacles. And 

 the same thing is true for the seuse-organs. It is therefore possible, 



Fig. 14. 



from a study of successive stages, to predict where each new quar- 

 tette ot tentacles or sense-organs will arise. The diagranLs shown 



Fin. 15. 



iu the test-figures are from camera drawings of mounted whole 

 medusae. If we examine text-figure 14 we see that T. (tentacle) 




7 so PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Dcc. . 



Ill follows T. I; and text-figure 15 shows T. IV following T. II. 



I 



Fig. 16. 

 Thus T. Ill and T. IV form a series, arising in correspoudiiig 



I 



Fis. 17. 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 781 



}X)sitions in the quadrant relative to the tentacles already present.'* 

 The next series consists of four tentacles in each quadrant, T.V. 



Fig. 18. 

 to T. VIII. This brings us to the thirty-two-tentacled stage (text- 

 figures 16 and 17). In this it will be seen that T. V follows T. 1, 



Fig. 19. 



T. VI follows T. II, T. VII follows T. Ill, T. VIII follows 

 T. IV, i.e., four numbers intervening in each case The next 



■*By "series" is not meant "cycle," with the idea of simultaneous 

 appearance ; the notion is one of relative position simply. 




782 PROCKEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Dec, 



series comprises T. IX to T. XVI, which follow the same plan in 

 order of appearance, T. IX following T. I, etc., eight numbers 

 intervening id each case (fig. 18). 



While this may seem more like a fanciful exercise of the imagina- 

 tion than an actual condition in nature, the truth is that the larger 

 the number of specimens in which one tests the arrangement of the 

 marginal organs by this rule, the more will one be convinced of 

 the remarkably constant adherence to it. Given a specimen with, 

 say, twenty -eight tentacles, such as that represented ' in fig. 19 — 

 this is a drawing of a specimen of Olindia.s from the Bahamas, a 



Fig. 20. 



genus which follows the same' rule in the order of appearance ot 

 the tentacles as Gonionema — the sense-organs are not so numerous 

 in OUndiwt. In this specimen the most recently arisen tentacle in 

 each quadrant is evidently the one numbered VII. lying just after 

 each perradial tentacle. Then, if the rule which we have educed 

 applies in this case, we should expect to find the eighth tentacle in 

 each quadrant arising in a corresponding po.sitiou with relation to 

 the interradial tentacle. 



And such we find to be the case. Fig. 20 shows a slightly older 

 specimen of the .'^arae species iu which^ we plaiuly see the eighth 

 tentacle in each quadrant lying in its appointed place ( VIIIV 




1902.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



783 



It would be singular indeed if (here were no exceptions at all to 

 this general rule. Man}' variations from the regular cyclic sym- 

 metry do occur, but only as many as would be expected from the 

 marked tendency to variability in all parts of the medusa. These 

 variations no more obscure the normal definiteness of plan than the 

 occurrence of six or seven-rayed star-fish obscure the normal penta- 

 merous form in echinoderms. Text-figure 21 shows an irregular 

 condition, the, fourth tentacle in each quadrant having arisen 

 aberrantly, following instead of preceding the first sense-organ (1). 



Fig. 21. 



In PI. XXXIII, fig. 19, one of the latest ari.sen quartette had 

 not put in its appearance (see arrow in quadrant A). In the 

 older specimens, the number of irregularities increases. It seems to 

 me that the bell-margin increases in extent subsequent to and as a 

 consequence of the increase in the number of tentacles, rather than 

 that the tentacles arise, haphazard, wnerever there is space enough 

 on the margin to accommodate them (Hargitt, 1901). Certain it 

 is that the most crowded part of the bell-margin at any particular 

 moment is that from which new tentacles are in the process of 

 arising. 




784 proceedings of the academy of [dec, 



Histogenesis of Marginal Organs. 



A. — In the larva. — The similarity in the appearance of the ten- 

 tacle-rudiment in polyp and in gonosome make it desirable to 

 describe both in the same connection. The account of the origin 

 of the tentacles in the polyp was therefore reserved for this section. 

 At first the larval tentacle is merely a small round knob, externally, 

 and internally it is made up of a core of two or three eudodermal 

 cells. When the tentacles make their appearance the body wall of 

 the polyp is made up of the double layer of cells,' the ectoderm and 

 endoderm, separated by the thin supporting lamella of mesogloea. 

 These three layers are pushed out somewhat in the growth of the 

 tentacle, the region of greatest activity being the endodermal 

 layer, where the core of the tentacle is formed by a rapid out- 

 growth of the cells of the body wall, accompanied by multiplication 

 of these same cells. After some weeks the cavity of the crelen- 

 teron becomes drawn out in a diverticulum in the tlirection of the 

 axis of the tentacle, so that the upper part of the gastric cavity 

 becomes stellate in cross section. PI. XXXII, tig. 15, show.s this 

 condition in a five-months' -old polyp. This cavity docs not reach 

 out into the tentacle itself in any of the specimens which I studied, 

 but may do so before metamorphosis takes place. During the 

 whole of larval life, the tentacle is made up of a core of endoder- 

 mal cells in a single row, as is the case in hydra. Fig. 1 1 shows 

 the first pair of tentacles oi\\y developed, and the cell-layers are 

 seen as described. The endoderm cells are filled with a loose pro- 

 toplasmic mass (PI. XXXIV, fig. 24, End. ) and the nucleus is 

 conspicuiius. The condition which is seen in an adult tentacle 

 with several cells of endoderm surrounding the central cavity (fig. 

 23) is easily derivable from the larval condition by longitudinal 

 fission of the endodermal cells, repeated until a cross-section of a 

 tentacle cuts several cells (PI. XXXIV, fig. 25). 



B. — In the Adult. — The regularity with which the tentacles and 

 sense-organs make their appearance in the adult, as previously 

 described, makes it possible to locate with comparative certainty the 

 beginning of one of these organs upon the bell-margin. PI. 

 XXXIV, fig. 24, is from a section of a medusa, cut horizontally 

 at the point of origin of one of the tentacles. The figure shows 

 the a.six!ct at the level of the tentacle, somewhat above the velum. 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 785 



Both cell-layers are seen to be concerued iu the formation of the 

 new tentacle. The endoderm (End.) is pushed out from the 

 region of the circular canal, and has the shape of a solid plug of 

 tissue composed of a few cells arranged radially about a central 

 axis (T.R.). The nuclei are at the inner ends of the cells. Out- 

 side of this endodermal core is the ectoderm (Ect. ) which is, in the 

 region of the bell-margin, of the character of gelatinous tissue, 

 containing large numbers of rudimentary nematocysts. These 

 inclusions and the nuclei of the cells are more numerous at the 

 point where the tentacle is to appear than elsewhere. In the 

 medusa, as in the polyp, the greatest activity in the formation of 

 a new tentacle is manifested by the endoderm. According to 

 Allman,"* in some hydroids {Campanularia Johnston!,, for example) 

 the first indicaton of tentacle formation is the thickening of the 

 ectoderm at the point where the tentacle is to appear. This is con- 

 trary to the condition which we have in Gonionema. 



But to continue our description : along with the growth of the 

 endodermal process, which is to be the core of the tentacle, the 

 ectoderm also increases rapidly and constitutes an investment which 

 contains within it numerous nematocysts and concretions which were 

 scattered throughout the ectoderm at the margin of the umbrella. 

 After the tentacle has grown out for a little distance beyond the 

 bell -margin the cells on the upper or aboral surface become modi- 

 fied to form an adhesive organ (PI. XXXIII, figs. 20 and 21). 

 The cells over a disk-shaped area become elongated until they have 

 the form of a thick pad (PI. XXXIII, fig. 21). The tissue im- 

 mediately around the pad grows out in a flange so that the organ 

 becomes a vacuum-cup strongly muscular around the edge. After 

 the tentacle has grown out to a length of six to eight millimeters 

 and has increased in diameter cons-iderably, the cavity of the circu- 

 lar canal is drawn out into it. The endodermal cells, arranged 

 radially about the central axis, thicken until they are forced away 

 from the centre, and a tubular cavity is left (PI. XXXIII, fig. 

 21). As this process takes place first at the proximal end of the 

 tentacle, within the tissue of the bell-margin, the cavity of the 

 circular canal is carried out along the axis of the tentacle toward 

 the tip. In this way the tentacle, which was originally imperforate 

 as in the polyp, becomes hollow. 



'* Ai-LMAN, Monograph on the Tubularian Hydroids. 

 50 




786 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC. , 



C. — Seme-organs. — The origin of the sense-orgaus is very simi- 

 lar to that of the tentacles (PI. XXXIV, figs. 24 and 25). In 

 fact, it seems clear from a study of these processes in Gronionema 

 that the sense-organs must necessarily be regarded as modified ten- 

 tacles. In the case of these sensory clubs (PI. XXXIV, fig. 25, 

 S. C. ), the endodermal tissue (End. ) of the circular canal grows 

 down in a plug into the ectodermal tissue {Ect. ) of the bell-margin. 



This latter becomes closely applied to the outside of the plug, as 

 a thin investing epithelium, and it also spreads out in a thin lamella 

 over the inner surface of the capsule which appears in the ectoderm 

 in front of the developing club. PI. XXXIV, fig. 25, is a draw- 

 ing by Prof. Brooks from a section cut transversely across the bell- 

 margin, showing the early stage in the formation of a sense-organ. 

 I have not been able to demonstrate the presence of sensory hairs 

 in the cavity of the capsule. The cells at the tip of the club soon 

 begin to secrete the solid concretion which later attains a considerable 

 size. The concretion is invested with a Ihiu membranous ectoder- 

 mal covering. In Gonionema the concretions correspond witli the 

 composition wliich has been given for similar structures in other 

 medusje — a calcium salt deposit in an organic matrix. Thus it 

 is seen that both tentacle and sense-organ consist of an endodermal 

 core which appears as a plug of tissue growing out froTu the lining 

 of the circular canal. In each case this core becmnas invested 

 with a tunic of ectoderm which remains associated with it. 



Ne.matocysts. 



In the hydra-stage the earliest appearance of nematocysts was as 

 interstitial cells arising from either tissue-layer. Their growth in 

 Gonionema is nuich the same as in Cordylophora lacmstris as de- 

 scribed by ^lorgenstern (1901). They are carried out on the 

 tentacles by migration along with the ectodermal layer in whicli 

 they are set. The extreme attenuation of the tentacle as it is 

 when fully extended (fig. 14) gives an admirable chance to study 

 the cell-elements, especially the nematocysts. The tentacle appears 

 as a delicate rod of tmnslucent substance, partitioned off at inter- 

 vals by the transverse walls of the endoderm cells, and studded 

 along its length with numerous glistening beadlike bodies, the 

 nematocysts. Above each of these thread cells a palpocil projects 

 like a thorn (PI. XXXIV, tig. 26). The capsule has an unusual 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 787 



form, loug and bean-shaped (PL XXXIV, fig. 27). Examina- 

 tion with a high-power objective, focussing down into the water 

 upon the extended tentacle, shows with considerable distinctness a 

 ganglion cell of glistening highly refractive appearance, lying close 

 to each nematocyst (PL XXXIV, fig. 27, g.c. ). In every case this 

 ganglion cell is situated distal to the thread-capsule, toward the free 

 end of the tentacle (PI. XXXIV, fig. 26). A thin strand of ner- 

 vous tissue runs in each direction from the ganglion cell, toward the 

 nematocyst proximally, toward the free tip of the tentacle distally. 

 It is visible for only a short distance, however, soon vanishing into 

 the ectodermal tissue, and none of its branches or terminations are 

 to be traced. It evidently innervates the nettling capsule, near the 

 base of which it can be seen. 



In the gonosome the nematocysts are carried out onto the ecto- 

 derm of the growing tentacle in situ, as in the larva. Further 

 growth in the extent of the ectoderm is brought about in two ways : 

 By multiplication of the cells already incorporated in the epithelium 

 of the tentacle, and by immigration of the cells from the think ecto- 

 dermal pad at the base. The tissue composing the pad is peculiar 

 in character. The cell-walls are almost or quite obliterated, and 

 the gelatinous substance contains the cell-products already men- 

 tioned. In this whole group of medusae the older tentacles are left 

 stranded, as it were, by the grov/th of the margin of the umbrella 

 beyond their point of origin. As they are in this way carried up 

 on to the exumbral surface of the medusa, the pad of ectodermal 

 tissue grows so as to fill the space between the base of the tentacle 

 and the bell-margin, forming a round cushion of hard tissue. In 

 sections cut through this tentacle-pad (PI. XXXIII, figs. 22 and 

 23) it is seen that the concretions which lie toward the bell-margin 

 are more dense and homogeneous ; that further inward they are 

 somewhat less solid in appearance, spaces appearing within their 

 outer walls ; and that at the side nearest the circular canal there 

 are great numbers of nettling cells in various stages of formation. 

 All gradations are present between the solid concretion and the 

 nettling cell (PL XXXIII, fig. 22). Fig. 22 was drawn by Prof. 

 Brooks to show this condition in Gonionema. At the inner margin 

 of the ectodermal pad the nematocysts lie closely packed together 

 (fig. 22). From this breeding place they work their way out on 

 to the tentacle along which they migrate until they reach a spot 




788 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [DcC. , 



where they are needed. In young tentacles which are still elon- 

 gating the nematoeysts are carried out with the ectoderm as it 

 becomes applied to the tentacle base. But after a certain time the 

 tentacle increases only very slowly in length and additional nettling 

 cells are needed to keep up with the increase in diameter. This 

 migration of nematoeysts has I)een seen and described by Mur- 

 bach." After the capsules have become established, the ectodermal 

 covering becomes modified to form the cnidocil (PI. XXXTV, fig. 

 27). The nerve connection in the cnidocil is developed at an 

 early stage. 



Sexual Organs. 



In minute specimens of the adult gonosome the gonads are fre- 

 quently found in their first stage of development. They appear as 

 outgrowths of the ectodermal covering of the radial canals, at first 

 in the form of a ridge projecting downward from the radial canal 

 into the subumbrella at a point two-fifths of the distance from the 

 lop of the bell to the margin. The rudimentary ribbon of gona- 

 dial tissue elongates in both directions from the point at which it 

 started. Text-figure 20 shows the condition in Olindias, in which it 

 is similar at first to that in Gonionetna. The gonad thus becomes an 

 elongated I'idge of tissue which finally reaches to the extremities of 

 the radial chimiferous tubes, and increases in depth until it hangs 

 down like a ribbon into the subumbrella. Early in its development 

 the ribbon is somewhat sinuous, and as the medusa attains greater 

 diameter the convolutions become more and more umnerous, and 

 farther extended on cither side of the radial canal, until ultimately 

 the folds are packed tightly together in a solid band of tissue, 

 which at the time of maturity is extended with sexual elements. 

 The process of formation of the .sexual organs is identical in the 

 two sexes; it is impossible to tell whether a gi%'eD individual is 

 male or female until the sexual products begin to mature. 



Summary. 



1. Observations on the development of Gonionema indicate that 

 Ilaeckel's sharp distiuclions between jelly-fishes which he groups in 



" L. MoRBACH, 1894, Beitratte zur Kenntuis der Anatomie u. Entwick. 

 der Nesselorgane der Hydroiden. Archiv. f. Naturg., 60. 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 789 



his orders " Trachomedusre " and " Leptomedusse " are not justi- 

 fied. 



2. Dehiscence occurs in Gonionema with precise periodicity, and 

 is definitely affected by changes in light. 



3. Segmentation is total and equal ; endoderm is formed by 

 delamination of the blastomeres ; a solid morula results. 



4. A planula stage occurs, and later a hydra stage, in which the 

 polyp develops first two tentacles, later a second pair. 



5. Youngest meduste and oldest polyps show marked homologies ; 

 direct metamorphosis is suggested. 



6. Peculiar ])athological phenomena occur, the larva living for 

 weeks in the form of a plasmodium, with amcebiform activities. 



7. Alternation of generations occurs. A non-sexual form of 

 multiplication appeare, during larval life ; buds are produced which 

 are detached as planulre and go through the same changes as the 

 parent. 



8. The order and arrangement of tentacles in the gonosome 

 follows a definite plan of cyclic sequence, producing a figure which 

 is cyclically, not bilaterally, symmetrical. Tentacles and sense- 

 organs appear at determinate points on the bell margin. 



9. Histogenesis of tentacles and sense-organs shows their 

 homology 



10. The origin of nematocysts from the ectodermal pad at the 

 base of the tentacle is described. 



11. Gonads arise as enlargements by proliferation of the ecto- 

 dermal subumbral epithelium of the radial canal. 



DESCRIPTION OF PLATES XXXI-XXXIV. 



Tfie figures, except those otherwise noted, have been, drawn by the author. 



Plate XXXI, Fig. l.^Adult Oonionema in resting attitude ; floating 

 after a period of active swimming. 2/1. 



Fig. 3. — Medusa in act of swimming ; bell contracted, tentacles 

 drawn up at the end of a forward impulse. Pliotographed 

 from life. 1/1. 



Fig. 3. — Photograph of medusa inverted and clinging to the 

 bottom. 



Fig. 4. — One radial canal from ripe male, showing gonad, e, cir- 

 cular canal ; r, radial canal. 8/1. 



Fig. 5.— Gonad of female, during dehiscence. 20/1. 



Fig. 6. — Kgg during first segmentation ; cleavage furrow half 

 compreted. 570/1. 



Fig. 7. — Egg during second segmentation, left hemisphere com- 

 pletely divided, right hemisphere in process of dividing. 




790 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC. , 



Fig. 8. — Hollow blastula seven hours after fertilization. Optical 



section of live egg. 

 Fig. 9. — Two-layered blastula, endoderm having arisen by delam 



ination. 

 Fig. 10. — Young planula larva. P, posterior end, A, anterior end. 



675/1. 

 Fig. 11. — Planula larva; posterior end enlarged; endodermal 



cells at posterior end arranged along the axis ot the larva, 



marking line of future calenteron, C. 



Plate XXXII, Fig. 13. — Two-tentacled polyp, in section ; four weeks 

 old. Ec. thickened basal ectoderm. 



Fig. 13. — Polyp, four mouths old, with five tentacles and five oral 

 lobes, lying in the same vertical planes. 



Fig. 14.— Polyp, five months old ; in typical resting attitude, ten- 

 tacles, expanded 2 mm. 



Fig. 15. — Five-tentacled polyp, showing form of creleuteron and 

 formation of bud. 



Fig. 16. — Polyp feeding upon a worm. 



Fig. 17. — Larva tweutytliree days old, exhibiting transverse 

 fission of coelenteron and elongated hydrocaulus. 



Fig. 18. — Young medusa with twelve tentacles and four sense 

 organs ; showing spherical shape and constricted bell-mar- 

 gin. 



Plate XXXIII, Fig. 19. — Thirty-two-teutacled medusa with fourteen 

 sense organs. Seventh and eighth tentacles have appeared 

 in each quadrant except quadrant A, wliere eighth is lack- 

 ing. Four sense organs have appeared in quadrants B and 

 D, five in quadrants A and C. 



Fig. 20. — Tentacle-tip of medusa, showing rings of nematocysts, 

 angle of tentacle, and adhesive organ on aboral side. 



Fig. 21. — Cross section of adhesive organ. G. C, gland cells com- 

 posing cement gland ; M.F., muscular flange. 500/1, 

 drawn by W. K. Brooks. 



Fig. 22. — Ectodermal pad at base of tentacle. E.P., ectodermal 

 pad; 7'., tentacle ; il.. mesoglcea. Radial vertical section. 

 Drawn by W. K. Brooks. 



Fig. 23. — Transverse section, at bell margin, of base of tentacle, 

 showing tentacle pad, C.P. 



Plate XXXIV, Fig. 24. — Horizontal section of bell margin at level 

 of rudiment of tentacle, T.R.; N, rudimentary nematocysts ; 

 N.lt., nerve ring; T, tentacle ; C.C., circular canal. 



Fig. 25. — Radial transverse section of bell, at point of origin of 

 sense organ, S. C, showing endodermal origin ; Cups., 

 sensory capsule, surrounded by ectoderm ; V., velum. 

 Drawn by AV. K. Brooks. 



Fig. 26. — Tentacle tip of larva from above. 500/1. 



Fig. 27.— Nemaiocyst in detail, showing cnidocil, Cn.; ganglion 

 cell. 2000/1. 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 791 



FIVE NEW SPECIES OF TRACHELOMONAS. 

 BY T. CHALKLEY PALMER. 



American forms of the genus Trachehmonas ( Ehr. ) Steiu, 

 (hough apparently not infrequent or wanting iu variety, seem not 

 to have been studied with any great degree of enthusiasm. The 

 number of I'ecognized species is small. Moreover, it is somewhat 

 doubtful if known forms have been quile adequately distinguished 

 and characterized. Since the days of Ehrenberg, also, the chemi- 

 cal constitution of the shells of Trachelomonas ha-s been the theme 

 of a continued, though desultory, discussion. 



No attempt will be made, in this preliminary paper, to deal with 

 the genus as a whole, or to discuss the values of characters relied 

 upon for specific diagnosis. It will suffice for present purposes to 

 take Trachelomonas as established by Ehrenberg, together with the 

 same author's genera, Lagenella, Cfudotyphla and Chcdoglena a.-< 

 constituting one genus, the Trachelomonas of Stein and of most 

 subsequent authorities. Neither is it necessary to enter here at 

 length into the subject of the constitution of the lorica. Thi.s 

 matter is, indeed, by no means simple; and certainly, it is not one 

 capable of being decided, as to every species, by a few rough 

 chemical tests upon the shells of one or two forms. The shells of 

 Cha'totyphla and Chcctoglena were supposed by Ehrenberg to be 

 silicious. On the other hand later investigators have found it 

 possible to dissolve, wholly or in part, the shells of certain of these 

 forms in acids. I have no notion of calling in question the correct- 

 ness of any of these observations at present. 



The lorica, however, in each of the five species now to be de- 

 scribed is completely siliciiied. If this had not been the case, the 

 following descriptions would not have been written now and iu this 

 form; for these five were selected from among about twenty, all 

 appearing iu a preparation of diatoms that had been strongly boiled 

 for some time in a large volume of concentrated nitric acid, to 

 which had been added, from time to time, small pieces of potassium 

 chlorate. Moreover, subsequent experiments showed that the 




792 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



original materia) yielded the same shell?, intact in every least 

 feature, after long boiling in a mixture of equal parts of concen- 

 trated sulphuric acid and bichromate of potash. Other portions of 

 the material were acted upon by both solutions in turn. Last of 

 all the shells, after these processes, were niouuled on a thin cover- 

 glass, and this glass, supported on platinum, was brousht to a low 

 red heat, with incipient softening, and kept there for fifteen 

 minutes. The loricae emerged unaltered from this ordeal, in no 

 way differing in this respect from the frustules of diatoms accom- 

 panying them. Whatever may be the case with other forms, there- 

 fore, the loricse here described are neither chitinous nor calcareous 

 but silicious. The material from which these forms were obtained 

 came from Ancora, N. J. It was pointed out to the writer by Mr. 

 C. S. Boyer, in the spring of 1897. It is in form of a grayish, 

 paper-like film, and it completely covered many acres of boggy 

 ground. It is made up mostly of the frustules of Eunoiia pedinalis 

 Kg., lined with the dead endoplasm and varni.shed over with 

 coleoderm. This diatonl, during the colder months, thrives enor- 

 mously in the flooded cranberry bogs, and dies in. situ when the 

 water is drained off for the growing season. lu addition to the 

 Eunotia, the gathering contains the remains of various rhizopods, 

 besides spicules of indeterminate origin, miscellaneous diatoms and 

 Trachelomonaa. 



It is recognized that complete descriptions of the following species 

 must include an account of the protoplasmic contents of the 

 loricw. This cannot be given here, for the reason that the organ- 

 isms were long since dead and shrunken. Portions of the gather- 

 ing were, however, macerated with water, and in some of the 

 numerous forms enough was seen of the contents to indicate that 

 the body of the living animal contained a quantity of deep-green 

 chlorophyll, a part of which still survived. A final decision as to 

 the allegiance of these forms must, undoubtedly, await a study of 

 them in their living slate. But the whole structure of the hard 

 parts points to Traclielomonas, and the name is given with some 

 confidence 



Measurements are observed maxima in all ca.<es. The total size 

 will vary downward in different specimens of a given species, and 

 with it, mostly to a corresponding degree, the dimensions of salient 

 features. 




1902.] KATUEAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 793 



Trachelomonas vestita n. sp. PI. XXXV, figs, l and 2. 



Lorica a sphere, opaque iu air, with a prolonged, ueck-like aper- 

 ture. Walls of sphere complex, greatly thickened by a complete 

 layer of radiating, closely compacted silicious rods or spicules. 

 General surface of spicular coating showing numerous rounded and 

 confluent terminations, with often a few more prolonged and some- 

 what spine-like. Neck transparent, finely striated longitudinally, 

 flaring, with rounded, everted and somewhat reverted, finely fluted 

 lip. 



Diameter, including spicules, 25 /u. 



Length of spicules, 2.5 /i. 



Length of neck beyond spicules, 6.5 ii. 



Diameter of lip, 7 /i. 



Bogs, Ancora, N. ,] 



Mounted in air the lorica shows yellowish-brown by transmitted 

 light, bluish-green with a brown edge with spot-lens, and white on 

 dark background with reflected light. In Canada balsam, colorless' 

 and with a conspicuous .spicular halo. 



Traohelomouas spioulifera n- sp PI. XXXV, fig. 4. 



Lorica spherical. Wall thickened by a layer of radiating, 

 compacted silicious spicules, less long than in T. vestita. Surface 

 of spicular coaling showing round, evenly sown, mostly isolated 

 grains, the terminations of spiculas. Aperture small, situated in a 

 hyaline, nearly flat, crater-like area, with an upward-sloping, 

 hyaline edge, which is circular or generally irregularly polygonal. 



Diameter of sphere, 25 sj.. 



Diameter of crater, 7 ^^_ 



Length of spicules, 1.25 ;u. 



Bogs, Ancora, N. J. 



Mounted in air the lorica is slightly tinted with chocolate by 

 transmitted light, light bluish-green with spot-lens, and nearly 

 white on dark background with reflected light. In Canada balsam, 

 colorless and with a spicular halo. 

 Traohelomonas vermiculosa n. sp. PI. XXXV, fig. 3. 



Lorica nearly spherical. Walls somewhat thin, general surface 

 nearly smooth, at maturity adorned with high, rounded, isolated 



' Color-effects with these silicious loriciE are no doubt due to refraction, 

 interference, etc., and are serviceable or significant in specific diagnosis 

 only to a very limited extent. ° 




794 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Dec, 



vermiform ridges. Aperture quite small, without crater-like area, 

 the edge slightly raised, smooth aad rouuded. 



Diameter of sphere 23 ,u. 



Height of surface ridges, 2 /x. 



Diameter of aperture at top, . 2. 5 ,a. 



Bogs, Aneora, N.J . 



Mounted iu air the lorica has a purplish tinge with transmitted 

 light, is purple to yellow with spot-lens, and sometimes violet with 

 top illumination. In Canada balsam, colorless. 

 Trachelomonas spinosa n sp. PI. XXXV, fig. c. 



Lorica spherical, with long, slim neck. Walls transparent, some- 

 what granulate ; spines about 10, hollow, nearly straight, slender, 

 evenly tapering, distributed symmetrically. Neck with a strength- 

 ening ring of silica near the top. Aperture small. 



Diameter of sphere, 13 /i. 



Length of neck, 7 /'. 



Greatest length of spines, 1 2 /i. 



Bogs, Aneora, N. J. 



Mounted in air, the lorica is nearly colorless by transmitted light, 

 shining purple to \'iolet with spot-lens and with top illumination on 

 dark background. In Canada balsam, colorless and very faint. 

 Trachelomonas minor n. sp. PI. XXXV, fig. .i. 



Lorica spherical, with long, slim neck and one very long caudal 

 spine. Walls transparent, surface showing a few isolated granules. 

 Neck cylindrical, with capillary tube. Caudal spine nearly 

 straight, or somewhat bent or spirally twisted, hollow. 



Diameter of sphere 't /i. 



Length of neck, 5 ,y. 



Length of spine 17 /j. 



Bogs, Aneora, N. J. 



^Mounted in air or in Canada balsam the lorica gives color- 

 effcctii like tho.se of T. spinosa. 



Of the above, T. spiculifera ami T. .•<pinoMi are fairly plentiful 

 in the Aneora diatomaceous gathering, while T. vestita is not so 

 abundant and T. minor may be called scarce. T. vermiculosa is 

 about as plentiful as T. vestita. All five, however, are represented 

 by numerous specimens, and a great many of each were studied 

 with care. No wide variations from the types, as above given. 




] Q09 1 

 ^"-J XATCEAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 795 



were found in any of ihe five species, except in point of size as 

 already menfoned, and to a minor degree in perfeclion of develop- 

 ment, (hough not in characler, of the surface markings. In par- 

 ticular, tliere seems to be no tendency toward inter<rradation in case 

 Of any of (hose here described, or among the othe!!- verv numerous 

 Kinds, to be described in a future communication, which accom- 

 pany them in this remarkable gathering. 



In addition to the numerous forms from Ancora, X. J., othe.^ 

 equally sihc.ous, but quite distinct specifically, have been detected 

 m small numbers among diatomaceous material from boos and 

 ponds over a wide range of country. All these are being" made 

 he subject of a careful .^ttidy, the results of which are (o be ^t 

 forta in a future paper. Unmounted fresh material, preserved in 

 formalin, which from its origin may be supposed to contain those 

 organisms, is greatly desired by the writer 



EXPLANATIOX OF PLATE XXXV. 



The figures are drawn to a uniform scale, an enlargement of 

 1200 diameters. 



Fig- ^—Trachelomonas ■eestita n. sp 



Fi^' ~<~%7nJfr''°''"' ''*^*'*''" "Pti'^al m<'<Jian section. 



^JS- i—jrachelomonaa spiculifera n sp 

 v°' ^■~''^'"^^'''^^c"ionas minor n. sp. 

 rig. G.—2riichelomonas gpinosa n. sp. 




796 PROCEEDINGS OF TDE ACADEMY OF [Dec, 



The following reports were ordered to be printed : 



REPORT OF THE RECORDING SECRETARY. 



Forty-.<ix meetings have been held during the year, with an 

 average altendance of fourteen persons. Si.x weeks in midsummer 

 were witliout a meeting because of the lack of a quorum. Verbal 

 communications were made by Messrs. Lyman, Woolman, A. E. 

 Brown, Harshberger, Pilsbry, Chapman, Jlurlin, Goldsmith, 

 Crawley, Calvert, Montgomery, Shulz, IMorris, Conklin, Mills, 

 Stone, Moore, Keely, Bradner, Rhoads, Kraemer, H. Fox, Bur- 

 nett Smith and Dr. Ida Keller. 



Fifty-iive papers have been presented for publication and acted 

 on by the Publication Committee, as follows: Henry A. Pilsbry, 7; 

 James A. G. Rehn, 7; Arthur E. Brown, 3; John W. Harsh- 

 berger, 3; Thomas H. Montgomery, Jr., 3; S. N. Rhoads, 2; 

 Howard Crawley, 2; J. Percy Moore, 2; Gerrit S. Miller, Jr., 2; 

 Benjamin Smith Lyman, 1 ; G. K. Gude, 1 ; Ralph V. Cham- 

 berlain, 1 ; Thomas Meehau, 1 ; F. E. Blaisdcli, 1 ; William J. 

 Fox, 1 ; Albert M. Reese, 1 ; Edwin G. Conklin, 1 ; Clarence B. 

 Moore, 1 ; AVitmer Stone, 1 ; Witmer Stone and James A. G. 

 Rchn, 1; Henry C. Chapman, 1; T. D. A. Cockerell, 1; John 

 Raymond Jlurlin, 1 ; Henry Kraemer, 1 ; O. P. Hay, 1 ; Henry 

 A. Pilsbry and Bryant Walker, 1 ; II. Carlton Ba.stian, 1 ; Ada 

 Springer, 1 ; Henry F. Perkins, 1 ; Adcle M. Fielde, 1 ; Malcolm 

 P. Auderson and Joseph Grinnell, 1 ; William H. Dall, 1 ; H. 

 Viereck, 1. 



Forty-five of these have been j)ublished as papers in the Pro- 

 ceedings, two in the Journal, one has appeared as the report of a 

 verbal communication, one was withdrawn, two were returned to the 

 authors, two are in course of publication and two are held over 

 until next year. 



Since the last report there have been published of the Proceed- 

 ings 907 pages and 41 plates; of the Journal, 358 pages and fi 

 plates; of the Manual of Conchology, 305 pages and 39 plates; of 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 797 



the Transactions of the American Entomological Society (the EdIo- 

 mological Section of the Academy), 367 pages and 9 plates, and 

 of the Entomological News, 334 pages and 15 plates, making a 

 total of 2271 pages and 110 plates issued by the Academy during 

 the year. 



We are indebted to I\lr. Clarence B. Moore for the publication of 

 the second part of the twelfth volume of the quarto Journal, the 

 entire expense of printing and illustration having been defrayed 

 by him. 



The statistics of distribution remain the same as last year. 



It is much to be regretted that the biographical memoir of our 

 esteemed Vice-President, Thomas Meehan, the preparation of 

 which had been provided for by the Academy as stated in the last 

 annual report, has not yet been presented for publication. 



Twenty members and one correspondent have been, elected. The 

 deaths of eighteen members and five correspondents have beeu 

 announced. Seven members have been omitted from the roll 

 because of non-payment of dues, and the following have resigned : 

 Henry Leffman, Harry G. Parker, John H. Packard, Charles L. 

 Phillips, Henry Erben, Miss E. W. Lowber, Theodore P. Matthews 

 and Hampton L. Carson. 



The Hayden Memorial Medal has been voted to Sir Archibald 

 Geikie, D.Sc, LL. D., late Director-General of the Geological 

 Survey of Great Britain and Ireland, and has been transmitted to 

 him through H.B.M Consul in Philadelphia. This is the first 

 time that the gold medal has been awarded, it having heretofore 

 been struck annually in bronze and accompanied by a grant of the 

 balance of interest arising from the fund. The modification has 

 been made in the deed of gift by the founder of the award, Mrs. 

 Ferdinand V. Hayden. 



The cornerstone of the building formerly occupied by the Acad- 

 emy at the corner of Broad and Sansom streets, exposed during the 

 demolition of the edifice, was received with its contents from the 

 contractor, Mr. John Griffith, .Jr., who received the thanks of the 

 society. The contents of the interesting relic were found to cor- 

 respond with the list recorded in the minutes of the meeting of 

 May 25, 1839. 



A resolution was adopted in January urging on the National 

 Congress the propriety of erecting in Washington a memorial to 

 the late Prof. Spencer F. Baird. 




798 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Dec, 



Mr. Stewardson Brown was appointed the Academy's represen- 

 tative to the proposed International Conference on Plant Breeding 

 and Hybridization. 



The Council Room and Lecture Hall continue to be used by 

 several societies whose objects are in harmony with those of the 

 Academy. 



Edwakd J. Nolan, 



Recording Seeretai-y. 



REPORT OF THE CORRESPONDING SECRETARY. 



During the year the roll of Correspondents has been revised. 

 There have been stricken from the list of living the names of 

 twenty-six persons whose decease has been ascertained. Direct 

 responses to commxinications have been received from 132 Corre- 

 spondents, and the addresses of sixty-nine more have beeb verified 

 or corrected from other sources. There remain on the rolls the 

 names of eighty-one persons whom the postal authorities have 

 failed to find at the addresses indicated. A list of the last has been 

 posted on the bulletin-board with the request that the Corresponding 

 Secretary be advised by members having information «]iich may 

 a.ssist in tracing any of those whose names appear. 



There have been announced the deaths of the following : Carlos 

 Berg, Henri Filhol, Alpheus Hyatt, John Wesley Powell and 

 Rudolph Virchow. 



Mr, George A. Boulenger, of the British Museum, has been 

 elected a Correspondent. 



It is desired to emphasize the importance of requiring a higli 

 standard of scientific productiveness as an invariable prerequisite 

 to election as Correspondent of the Academy. 



Responding to a circular letter of request seventy-six Correspon- 

 dents have contributed and others have promised to contribute, to a 

 collection of photographs and biographical sketches which is being 

 formed. It is hoped that the representation of living correspon- 

 dents will be completed during the ensuing year. 



Copies of the Annual Reports were sent to all Corre.'pondents 

 whose addresses could be verifietl, and were acknowledged appre- 

 ciatively by many. 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 799 



Upon the invitation of the Senate of the University of Chris- 

 tiana to send a delegate to the meeting held to honor the memory 

 of Niels Henrik Abel on the 100th anniversary of his birth, Prof. 

 Robert Collet t, a Correspondent, was appointed as the Academy's 

 representative. 



In lieu of sending delegates an address was forwarded to be read 

 at the jubilee meeting of Prof. Albert Gaudry, held in Paris, and 

 letters of sympathy to be read at the Boston meeting memorial to 

 Prof. Alpheus Hyatt, and at the fimeral services of Prof. Lacaze- 

 Duthiers. 



The statistics of the correspondence for the fiscal year are given 

 in the following table : 



Communications Received. 



Acknowledgments of the Academy's publications, . . . 177 



Notices transmitting publications, 66 



Requests for exchanges and deficiencies, 10 



Invitations to participate in meetings, etc., 6 



Circulars concerning the administration of scientific institu- 

 tions, research funds, etc., 4 



Notices of the deaths of scientific men, 5 



Photographs from correspondents, 76 



Letters from correspondents, 48 



Miscellaneous letters, requests for information, etc., ... 12 



Total communications received from 158 institutions and 104 



individuals, 399 



Communications Forwarded. 



Acknowledgments of gifts to the Library, 667 



Acknowledgments of gifts to the Museum, ...... 84 



Acknowledgments of photographs, 76 



Copies of Circular letter, 132 



Copies of Annual Reports, 173 



Notices of election and correspondent's diplomas, .... 3 



Address, resolutions, letters of congratulation and condolence, 4 



Letters to correspondents, 14 



Letters on miscellaneous topics, 21 



Total forwarded, . , 1174 



Respectfully submitted, 



J. Percy Moore, 

 Corresponding Secretary. 




800 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



REPORT OF THE LIBRARIAN. 



The additions to the Library during the past year have amounted 

 to 6,086. They were received from the following sources: 



Societies, .... 2,259 

 L V. Williamson Fund, 1,158 



Editoi-s, ....... 765 



General Fund 683 



Meigs Fund, .... 299 



A.uthors, 211 



U. S. Dep' t of the Interior, 1 78 



James L. Penny packer, . 164 



U. S. Dep. of Agriculture, 86 



Wilson Fund, .... 35 

 Geological Surv. of Sweden, 34 

 Ministry of Public Works, 



France, . . - . 15 

 East Indian Government, 15 

 Geolog'l Surv. of Russia, 13 

 U. S. Department of State, 11 

 Greological Survey of Bel- 

 gium 11 



Observatory of Manila, . 1 1 

 Pennsylvania State Li- 

 brary, 10 



(Geological Survey of India, 9 



Mexican Government, . 8 



Henry A. Pilsbry, . . 8 

 Trustees of the British 



MiL-icum, 8 



Department of Agricul- 

 ture, Cape of Good 



Hope, ■ . 7 



Greological Survey of New 



South Wales, ... 6 

 Geological Survey of Fin- 

 land 6 



Messrs. Pilsbry and John- 

 sou, 5 



Department of Mines, 



Victoria, 4 



Conchological Section of 



the Academy, ... 4 

 U.S.Com.of Fish and Fisheries 3 

 U.S. Coast and Geodetic Surv., 3 

 Geological Survey of 



Canada 3 



Bernice Panahi Museum, 3 



Library of Congress, . . 2 



Dr. W. W. Keen. ... 2 



Special Exchange, ... 2 



Bergen ^Nlu.seum, ... 2 



Dr. H. C. Chapman, . . 2 



Home See's Office, Quec I isl., 2 



Mrs. C. B. Aaron, . . 2 

 Illinois State Bureau of 



Labor, 2 



Indian Museum, ... 2 

 Geological Survey of New 



Jersey, 2 



Dr. S. G. Di.Kon, ... 2 

 Due de Loubat, ... 2 

 U. S. Treasury Dep., . 1 

 U. S. Department of War, 1 

 United Stales Civil Ser- 

 vice Commission, ■ . . 1 

 Surgeon-General's Office, 1 

 Chicago Library Club, 1 

 Angelo Heil prill, ... 1 

 Dr. William Osier, . . 1 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES 



Commission of Inland 



Fisheries and Game, 



Massachusetts, ... 1 



Norwegian Government, . 1 

 Surveyor-General's Office, 



Naial, 1 



Department of Mines, 



Nova Scotia 1 



(Jeological Survey of 



Portugal, 1 



Edward J. Nolan, . . 1 



Instituto Geologico de 



Mexico, 1 



Benthara Trustees, Kew 



Gardens, 1 



Morrio Jastrow, Jr., . . 1 



Department of Marine 



and Fisheries, Canada, 1 



Kommission zur wissen- 



OF PHILADELPHIA. 



schaft. Untersuchungen 

 der deutschen IMeere iu 

 Kiel., Ab. Helgoland, . 



Geological Survey of 

 Washington, . . . . 



Council of tiie Fritjof 

 Nansen Fund for the 

 Advancement of Sci- 

 ence 



Danish Government, 



Bureau of American 

 Ethnology, . 



Bryant Walker, . 



Geological Survey 

 Louisiana, 



T. Guilford Smith, 



Geological Survey of Iowa, 



Witnier Stone 



f 



801 



1 

 1 



They were distributed to the several departments of the Library 

 as follows: 



Journals, 4,672 



Geology, 428 



Botany, 178 



General Natural History, 123 



Conchology, .... 89 



Entomology, .... 75 



Voyages and Travels . . 64 



Agriculture 55 



Amhropology, .... 50 



Geography, 50 



Anatomy and Physiology, 48 



Mammalogy 38 



Ornithology, 

 Herpetology, 

 Physical Sciences, 

 Icthyology, . 

 Encyclopedias, . 

 Medicine, 

 Miscellaneous, . 

 Mineralogy, . 

 Bibliograpliy, . 

 Helminthology, 

 Philology, 

 Mathematics, 



37 

 35 

 ..32 

 23 

 19 

 17 

 16 

 12 

 11 

 11 

 2 



1 



Of these 4,960 were pamphlets and parts of periodicals, 960 were 

 volumes and 166 were maps and sheets. 



We are also indebted to Dr. William P. Wilson for a collection 



.51 




802 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



of 617 Muybridge plates illustrating animal motion. They will 

 fill six portfolios and go far toward the completion of the Academy's 

 collection of these interesting plates, of which previously there 

 were but 103 in the Library. 



Four hundred and ninety-eight volumes have been bound. 



A death-mask of Dr. Joseph Leidy, whose memory is held in 

 deserved esteem, has been presented by his nephew. Dr. Joseph 

 Leidy, Jr. 



The decrease in the number of volumes bound and the slight 

 falhng off of receipts from those reported last year are consequent 

 on the absence of the Librarian from May until October, four 

 months' vacation having been kindly granted him by the Council 

 for the improvement of his health, an end which was measurably 

 secured by a prolonged stay in Italy. He has great pleasure in 

 acknowledging his obligation to his assistant, Mr. William J. Fox, 

 who during that period performed the routine work of the Library 

 and also acted as Recording Secretary most acceptably. 



All of which is respectfully submitted, 



Edward J. Nolan, 



Librarian. 



REPORT OF THE CURATORS. 



The year just past has been one of prosperity. While the soci- 

 ety''s income is small compared with that of many other institutions 

 of like character, the increase in its scientific collection.? has been 

 large, and the results obtained in original research have been the 

 most extensive in its history. 



The buildings and the collections in the care of the Curators 

 have been kept in excellent condition during the year, while many 

 improvements have been effected. 



Additional space has been provided for the Entomological depart- 

 ment by enclosing anotlier section of tlie first floor of the old 

 Museum. The taxidermist's quarters in the new wing have been 

 partitioned off from the rest of the basement and heated. 



An enlarged system of steam pipes, covered with magnesia, has 

 been introduced in the old building. 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 803 



Five new plate-glass and mahogany cases have been placed in 

 the Museum during the year, one large case for birds and two for 

 mammals, while Mr. Clarence B. Moore has added two for the 

 accommodation of the archfeological material obtained by him in 

 northwestern Florida. A number of moth-proof storage cases of 

 various kinds have been provided for the rapidly increasing study 

 series of birds, mammals and insects. 



The Museum staff was further increased at the beginning of the 

 year by securing the services of Dr. J. Percy Moore and Mr. C. 

 W. Johnson as assistants to the Curators. Dr. Moore has taken 

 charge of the Helminthological collection and has identified and 

 catalogued all of the material in the Museum. During the sum- 

 mer, when on leave of absence at Woods Hole, he made valuable 

 collections in this department for the Academy. 



Mr. Johnson, besides the care of the Is-aac Lea Collection of 

 Eocene Mollusca, which he has continued as heretofore, has been 

 able to rearrange, identify and label the entire series of American 

 Cretaceous invertebrates. The types identified number upward of 

 400. The additions to the Lea collection for the year number 730 

 trays. 



In the care an<l arrangement of the various study collections 

 important work has been accomplished, the details of which will be 

 found in the reports of the several sections- -that on the Conchologi- 

 cal collections by Dr. Pilsbry ; the Ornithological by Mr. Stone ; 

 the Botanical by Mr. Stewardson Brown, and the Entomological 

 by Dr. Skinner. 



In the rearrangement of the Museum the most notable work has 

 been the installation of nearly one-half of the mounted birds in the 

 eases provided for them in the new building. The specimens have 

 been carefully examined by the taxidermist and labeled and 

 arranged by Mr. Stone. Almost all the water-birds and the 

 greater part of the Galliuacere have been transferred, and the floor 

 will be ready for opening in the spring. 



Rearrangement of the mounted mammals has been made neces- 

 sary by the addition of new cases, and the moose and other exposed 

 specimens have been placed under glass. Several attractive 

 mounts have been prepared during the year, notably the groups of 

 Siamangs collected and presented by Mr. Alfred C. Harrison, Jr., 

 and Dr. H. M. Hiller. 




804 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC. , 



The alcoholic material has been examined, and a large number 

 of specimens have been catalogued and sj'stematically arranged. 



In the Department of Archreology, Mr. Clarence B. Moore has 

 added many valuable specimens to his collection and has personally 

 superintended their arrangement and labeling, while Miss H. N. 

 Wardle has made important progress in cataloguing the Haldeman 

 collection. 



The additions to the collections during the year have been of 

 importance, as may be seen from the appended list. Most note- 

 worthy were the valuable series of vertebrates and insects col- 

 lected in Sumatra by Mr. Alfred C. Harrison, Jr., and Dr. H. 

 M. Hiller and generously presented by them to the Academy. 

 Reports on these collections have already been published or pre- 

 pared for publication, covering the mammals, birds, reptiles and 

 fLshes. 



Another important gift was a collection of 2,000 plants from the 

 western United States received from Mr. Benjamin H. Smith, 

 while Alfred C. Harrison, Jr., Clarence B. Moore, Samuel F. 

 Houston, John Carter, Charles H. Cramp, James D. Winsor and 

 Beulah M. Rhoads, members of the Academy, have secured through 

 purchase a valuable series of birds from the Galapagos Islands. 



From its general fund the Academy has also been enabled to 

 purchase the Rhoads Collection of North American Mammals, com- 

 prising some 4,000 skins and skulls which fill an important gap in 

 the Museum, and places the mammal collection on an excellent 

 basis. 



Many valuable specimens of mammals, birds and rejitiles have 

 been received during the year from the Zoological Society of Phila- 

 delphia, and Dr. H. ('. Chapman has presented a beautifully pre- 

 pared set of marine invertebrates obtained from the Zoological 

 Station at Naples. 



During the spring Me.?srs. H. L. Vierock and J. A. G. Reha 

 visited southern New Mexico under direction of the Academy, and 

 secured valuable collections of insects and plants and many verte- 

 brates. 



The Consers-ator of the Wiiriam S. Vans Collections, Mr. Theo- 

 dore D. Rand, regrets that owing to illness he has not been able to 

 give Its much time to his duties as heretofore. With the assi.slance 

 of Mr. George Vaux, Jr., such desirable specimens as came to his 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 805 



notice have been purchased. Amoug them may be specially 

 meationed a specimen of the water-enclosing chalcedony from 

 Brazil, enclosed in a gangiie of igneous rock, and two remarkablj' 

 fine crystals of epidote from Prince of Wales Island, Alaska. 



Besides the services rendered by the salaried Museum Staff, the 

 Curators would express their indebtedness to Messrs. Theodore D. 

 Kand, Lewis Woolnian, Philip P. Calvert and Charles Liebeck for 

 aid in various departments, and to the students of the Jessup Fund, 

 Messrs. E. G. Vanatla, J. A. G. Rehn, H. L. Yiereck and Miss 

 H. N. Wardle. 



A large number of specialists have visited the Academy during 

 the year for the purpose of studying the collections and material 

 has been loaned to the following: J. Dwight, Jr., G. 8. 

 Miller, Jr., William Brewster, W. B. Scott, H. F. Osborn, W. 

 T. Hornaday, T. Waylaud Vaughan, J. N. Rose, M. W. Lyon, 

 J. W. Gidley, Robert Ridgway,^W. H. Call, C. D. Beadle, H. 

 C. Oberholser, B. G. Wilder, W. B. Clarke, F. A. Lucas, C. W. 

 Richmond. 



REPORTS OF THE SECTIONS. 

 Biological and Microscopical Section. 



The regular monthly meetings of the Section have been held with 

 an attendance larger than that of last year. Several new members 

 have been admitted. 



Numerous comnuuiications were made as follows : By Mr. John 

 W. Palmer upon malarial fever in the Philippines and upon collec- 

 tions of diatoms made in the same locality; by Dr. T. S. Stewart 

 upon smallpox and bacteria; by Dr. J. Chestou Morris upon var- 

 ious pathological subjects, including Texas fever and vaccine virus ; 

 by Mr. John A. Shulze upon mounted specimens of diatoms; by 

 Mr. T. C. Palmer on Tracheloinonas ; Mr. Silas L. Schumo on 

 Mosses ; Mr. Hugo Bilgram and Mr. Harold Wingate on Myxo- 

 mycetes; Mr. Lewis AVoolman on microscopic organisms in recent 

 artesian well borings, and Mr. William B. Davis and Mr. C. S. 

 Boyer on diatoms. 




806 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



[Dec, 



The Conservator reports as au addition to the collection a set of 

 microscopic slides illustrating the structure of the placenta in Mar- 

 supials, presented by Dr. Chajiman. 



It has been proposed to hold extra meetinirs upon certain stated 

 evenings during the year, for informal discussion aud for the 

 exhibition of microscopical slides. 



The following officers have been elected : 



Director, 

 Vice- Director, 

 Recorder, 



Corresponding Secretary, 

 Conservator, . 

 Treasurer, 



J. Chest on Jlorris, 

 T. Chalkley Palmer. 

 Charles S. Boyer. 

 Silas S. Schumo. 

 F. J. Keeley. 

 Lewis Woolman. 



:\[.D. 



CoNCHOLOCilCAL SECTION. 



The growth of the collection of mollusks during the year has been 

 satisfactory, although no single large accession has been received. 

 A list of those giving specimens will be fouud in connection with 

 the Additions to the Museum. The chief gifts in point of extent 

 were the series of Japanese mollusks sent by Mr. Y. Hirase, 

 Zanzibar species from Sir Charles J^liot, and Carolinian land snails 

 from Mr. J. H. Ferris.s. The greater portion of the material has 

 been studied and the work on a large part of it is embodied in 

 papers published in the Proceedings of the Academy. 



The completion of the monograph on Bulimulidsc has rendered 

 po.ssible the arrangement of that group in the Museum, where two 

 double table-case.< now contain the exhibition .«eries. The work of 

 identifying and monographing the Urocopiidaj is in progress. The 

 Manual of Conchology has been issued during the year, as hitherto. 



The following officers were elected to serve for the ensuing year : 

 Director, .... Charles W. Johnson. 



Vice- Director, . . 

 Corresponding Secretary, 

 Treasurer, 

 I4brarian, . 

 Conservator, . 



John Ford. 

 E. G. Vanatta. 

 S. Raymond Koberts. 

 Edward J. Xolan. 

 Henry A. Pilsbry. 




1902.] natural sciences of philadelphia. 



Entomological Section. 



807 



The Recorder reports that the meetings of the Section, at which 

 interesting communications were made, have been well attended 

 during the year. One member and one associate were elected. 

 The Entomological News, the journal published by the Section, has 

 been continued, 334 pages and 15 plates having been issued. The 

 collections have been useful to our own students, and a number of 

 investigators from other scientific institutions have visited the 

 Academy to study them. Over 37,000 specimens have been added 

 during the year, 25,000 having been collected by an expedition 

 sent out by the Academy. Many species new to science have been 

 described by the members of the Section and a few have been sent 

 to specialists elsewhere for study and description. The collections 

 are in a good state of preservation and improved boxes and cabinets 

 have been added. Additional floor space has been granted and 

 enclosed by the Academy to provide for the growth of the Section. 

 At the annual meeting, held December 18, the following were 

 elected to serve as otficers during the year 1903: 



Director, 

 Vice-Director, 

 Treasurer, . 



Recorder and Conservator, 

 Secretary, . 

 Publication Committee, . 



Philip Laurent. 

 H. W. Wenzel. 

 E. T. Cresson. 

 Henry Skinner. 

 C. W. Johnson. 

 C. W. Johnson, 

 J. H. Ridings. 



Botanical Section. 



Accessions to the herbarium fully up to those of former years 

 are reported. About 6,000 specimens, principally North American, 

 have been received, the greater number being donations. 



The most important of these is a collection of Western American 

 plants, consisting of 1,925 species and numbering considerably over 

 2,000 mounted sheets, representing most of the characteristic genera 

 and a large number of the species of the Rocky Mountain region, 

 presented by Mr. Benjamin H. Smith, the collection having been 

 made by him some years ago while living in that district. It com- 

 prises, besides plants of his own collecting, those of Pringle, 




808 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Dec, 



Suksdorf, Howell and others, many of the sheets being annotated 

 by the late Dr. Porter, thus adding considerably to their interest 

 and value. The collection includes a number of species and 

 several genera not before represented in the herbarium. 



A collection of 430 California and Oregon plants, made by Mr. 

 H. E. Brown, was presented by the Conservator. 



A collection of about 800 North American plants was presented 

 early in the year by Mr. William M. Canby. They represent nearly 

 all regions from the east coast to the west, including Georgia, 

 Florida, the Gulf States and part of Mexico. The collection con- 

 tains a number of recently named species, notably of Cratcegm, not 

 already contained in the herbarium. 



A collection of about 100 sjiecimens, of similar range of locali- 

 ties, was presented by Prof. Charles S. Williamson. 



Smaller collections have been presented by Prof. E. A. Garratt, 

 from British Columbia ; by C. F. Saunders, from Vermont, and by 

 E. G. Vanatta, from Maryland. 



An interesting collection of about 130 specimens, made in the 

 vicinity of Sandwich Bay, Labrador, during the past summer, was 

 presented by Dr. Amos I*. Brown. 



A collection of West Indian plantn, presented by Dr. John W. 

 Harshberger, was collected by him in Jamaica, Haiti and Santo 

 Domingo in 1 901 . 



Messrs. James A. G. Kehn and H. L. Yiereck, of the Academy's 

 expedition to southwestern Texas and New jMcxico, early in the 

 year, brought back a good series of about 2,000 specimens of the 

 plants of that region. The collection is particularly rich in the 

 Cadi, of which most excellent examples were obtained. It adds a 

 number of desirable forms to the collection, and when thorouglily 

 studied will probably add several species to science. 



The collections purcha.sed by the Academy include about 900 

 specimens of California plants received from Mr. A. A. Heller, 

 made by himself and Mr. 11. E. Brown during the past season ; 

 540 West Australian plants from Dr. Pritzel, and about 350 

 Canary Island plants from Dr. Bornmiiller. 



Most of these specimens have been mounted and consolidated 

 with the general collection, and the others will be similarly arranged 

 at as early a date as possible. 



The work of arranging the C. W. Short Herbarium has pro- 




1902.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



809 



gressed satisfactorily diii-ing the year, about 15,000 sheet.? having 

 been mounted, completing the work through the Scrophulariacese. 

 These specimens have been incorporated in the general collections, 

 thus in many instances crowding the cases, so that additional room 

 is required. 



The local herbarium of the Philadelphia Botanical Club has 

 been enriched by donations from its members aggregating about 

 500 specimens. 



The meetings of the Section, at which a number of communica- 

 tions of scientific interest have been presented, have been held 

 ■ regularly during the year. 



At the meeting held December 8, 1902, the following were 

 elected to serve as officers for the ensuing year : 



Director; ..... Benjamin H. Smith. 



Vice-Director, .... Joseph Crawford. 



Recorder, .... Dr. Ida A. Keller. 



Corresponding Secretary, . . John T. Pennypacker. 



Treasurer and Conservator, . Stewardson Brown. 



MiNERALOGICAL AND GEOLOGICAL SECTION. 



The Director reports that nine meetings were held, with an aver- 

 age attendance of eight members. Six field meetings were held, 

 at which the attendance was large. Some of the specimens col- 

 lected were given to the Academy. 



The oflScers elected for the ensuing year are as follows : 

 Director, ..... Theodore D. Eand. 



Vice-Director, 

 Treasurer, 

 Conservator, 

 Recorder, . 



Benjamin Smith Lyman. 

 Emma Walter. 

 F. J. Keeley. 

 Charles Schaffer, M.D. 



Ornithological Section. 



During the past year the Conservator has completed the arrange- 

 ment of the mounted birds on the new ornithological floor, .so far 

 as the case-room will permit. The four large cases and three small 

 ones now in place cover about 900 square feet of floor space and 

 accommodate almost all of the water-birds and the majority of 




810 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC. , 



the Gallinacese, oi approximately half of the mounted collection, so 

 far as space occupierl is concerned. 



The specimens transferred during the year have all been labelled 

 and have been carefully examined by the taxidermist, while the 

 entire series has been rearranged to bring it into systematic 

 sequence. 



Several old horizontal cases have been renovated and placed on 

 the ornithological floor for the accommodation of a special collec- 

 tion, prepared for exhibition by the Conservator, illustrating the 

 structure and molt of birds. 



The opening of this department to the public, unavoidably post- 

 poned, will take place early in the coming year. 



Two additional large wooden storage cases and sixteen tin cases 

 were provided for the accommodation of the rapidly increasing 

 study collection of skins, and much important work has been 

 accomplished in transferring the specimens to the new cases and in 

 properly labelling the trays to aid in their examination. For this, 

 as well as aid in cataloguing the cDlleclion, the Conservator 'is 

 much indebted to Mr. J. A. G. Rehn. 



Several valuable additions have been made to the collection of 

 birds during the year, notably the beautiful series of specimens 

 from Sumatra, collected and presented by Mr. Alfred C. Harri- 

 son, Jr., and Dr. H. M. Ililler, containing many forms new to 

 the colleclion. 



A collection of the birds of the ( ialapagos Islands was pur- 

 chased through subscriptions by members of the Academy. Tliis 

 material fills an important gap in our collection, as the Academy 

 previously possessed no specimens from this region. An interesting 

 series of New Mexican birds was collected liy Mr. Ilclm while on 

 the expedition .sent out by the Academy in the spring, and many 

 other specimens were received through gift or ])urchii.se. 



The Delaware Valley Ornithological (!lub and the Pennsylvania 

 Audubon Society have continued to hold their meetings in the 

 Academy, and have done nnich to stimulate ornithological study. 

 By invitation the American Ornilhologists' Union has arranged to 

 hold its twenty-first Congress at the Academy in November, 1 903. 



Many visiting ornithologists have made use of the collections 

 duriug the year, and considerable aid ha.s been given to workers in 

 other institutions. 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 811 



At the annual meeting of the Section, December 18, 1902, the 

 following officers were chosen for fhe ensuing year: 



Director, . 



Vice-Director, . 



Secretary, . 



Recorder, . 



Treasurer and Conservator, 



Spencer Trotter, M.D. 

 George Spencer Morris. 

 William A. Shryock. 

 Slewardson Brown. 

 Witmer Stone. 



The election of Officers, Councilors and ISIembers of the Com- 

 mittee on Accounts to serve during 1903 was held with the follow- 

 ing result : 



President, 

 Vice-Presidents, 



Recording Secretary, 



Corresponding Secretary, 



Treasurer, 



Librarian, 



Curators, .... 



Councilors to serve three years, 



Committee on Accounts, 



Samuel G. Dixon, M.D. 



Arthur Erwiu Brown, 

 Edwin G. Couklin, Ph. D. 

 Edward J. Nolan, M.D. 

 J. Percy Moore, Ph.D. 

 George Vans, Jr. 

 Edward J. Nolan, M D. 

 Henry C. Chapman, M. D. , 

 Arthur Erwin Brown, 

 Samuel G. Dixon, M.D., 

 Henry A. Pilsbry, D.Sc. 

 Thomas A. Robinson, 

 Charles H. Cramp, 

 Charles Morris, 

 Isaac J. Wistar. 

 Charles Morris, 

 William L. Baily, 

 Harold Wiugate, 

 Lewis Woolman, 

 Philip P. Calvert, Ph.D. 



Councilors to serve unexpired term 

 OF two years, . 



Edwin S. Disou, 

 Thomas H. Fen ton, M.D. 




812 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



[Dec, 



COUNCIL FOE 1903. 



Ex-officio. — Samuel G. Dixou, M.D., Artliur Erwiii Brown, 

 Edwin G. Conklin, Ph.D., Edward J. Nolan, M.D., J. Percy 

 Moore, Ph.D., George Vaux, Jr., Henry A. Pilsbry, D.Sc, 

 Henry C. Chapman, M.D. 



To serve Three Years. — Thomas A. Robinson, Charles H. Cramp, 

 Charles Morris, Isaac J. "W^istar. 



To serve Two Years. — John Cadwalader, William Sellers, Edwin 

 S. Dixon, Thomas H. Fenton, M.D. 



To serve One Fear. -^Charles Schaffer, M.D., Dr. C Newlin 

 Peirce, Theodore D. Kand, Philip P. Calvert, Ph. D. 



Curator of Mollusca, 

 Assistant Librarian, 

 Assistants to the Curators, 



Taxidermist, 



Jessnp Fund Students, . 



Henry A. Pilsbry, D Sc. 

 William J. Fox. " 

 Witmer Stone, 

 Henry Skinner, M.D. , 

 Stewardsou Brown, 

 J. Percy Moore, Ph.D., 

 Edward G. Vanatta, 

 Henry W. Fowler, 

 J. A. G. Rehn. 

 David McCadden. 



J A. G. Rehn, 

 Raymond Winter, 

 Harriet Newell Wardle. 



Janitors, 



Charles Clappier, 

 John Jlcllheuny, 

 Daniel Heckler. 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 813 



ELECTIONS DURING 1902. 



MEMBERS. 



January 28. — J. Chester Bradley, Marian G. Nimlet, Alfred C. 

 Harrison, Jr., H. M. Hiller, Judsou Daland, M. D , Owen >S. 

 Paxson, Frederick Ehrenfeld, Burnett Smith. 



February 25. — J. R. Murliu, Ph.D., A. F. K. Krout, James 

 A. Nelson, A. B. Gordon-Davis. 



March 25. — TVIadeliue Dahlgren. 



April ^5.— Edwin C. Jellett, Frederick A. Packard, M.D., 

 Robert Coleman Baues. 



June 2Jf. — Alexander MacElwee, John Vinton Dahlgren. 



November 25. — Herman T. Wolf, Lilian Y. Sampson. 



CORRESPONDENT. 



May 27. — G. A. Boulenger, of Loudon. 




814 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



ADDITIONS TO MUSEUM. 



Mammals. 



E. O. Austin. Two Varyiug Hares, Lepus americanus ■oirginianug, 

 skins and skulls, Potter county. Pa. 



C. M. Barber. Skull of fietal Puma, Felia oregonus hippolestes ; skin 

 and skull oi Peroynatlnn sp. and three alcoholic mammals. 



Arthur Erwin Brown. Two skins of black Prairie Dog, C'ynomys, 

 and skull of Antelope, Antilocapra, Pecos, Texas. 



Hen'Ey C. Chapman, M.D. Galcopithecns volant, dissected, in alco- 

 hol ; two young Arniadillos. 



Jonathan Cope. Fragment of Walrus jaw. 



J. G. DiLLEN. Star-nosed Mole, Condylura cristata, Pennsylvania, 

 skin. 



G. P. Priant. Patorius cicognani, skin, Scranton, Pa. 



J. F. Jones. Eight-legged Puppy. 



Alfred C. Harrison, Jr., and Dr. H. M. Hillbr. Collection of 

 sixty-three specimens of mammals from Sumatra. 



George W. Melville. Mounted head and skull of Pacific Walrus, 

 Odobemts obesus. 



J. Percy Moore. Five specimens of Bats from Jamaica, including 

 Glossophaga soricina antillarum. 



PcRCnAsED. Rhoads collection of North American mammals. Skins, 

 skulls and skeletons numbering about 4300 specimens. 



Four skins and skulls of Grizzly Bear and skin of Conepatua from Chi" 

 huahua, Mexico ; series of mammal skins collected at Pt. Barrow, 

 Alaska, by E. A. >lcllhennj' ; twelve bats from Cuba. 



J. A. G. Rehn. Ten skins of Pennsj'lvania mammals. 



J. A. G. Reun and H. L. Viereck. (Collected on Academy Expe- 

 dition to New Mexico.) Forty-six skins and skulls of small mammals. 



S. N. Rhoads. Six Meadow Mice, Microtus pennnylvankua, in alcoliol, 

 and skull of Muskrat, Fiber zibei/ticus. 



Wither Stone. Four skins and skulls of Barren Ground Caribou, 

 two adults and two young, Rangifer arciicus, Pt. Barrow, Alaska. 



U. S. National Museum. (In exchange.) Nineteen mammals (skins, 

 skulls and alcoholic), mainly from the Malay region. 



Geohge Vaux, Jr. Skull of Black Bear, Ursus americanus, British 

 Columbia. 



H. L. Viereck. Incomplete skeleton of Cat. 



O'.iVEK Wheleu. Three skins of Pika, Ochotona cuppit, and a Chip- 

 munk, Tamias, Glacier, B. C. 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 815 



Lieut. H. L. Willoughbt. Skin and skeleton of Manatee, Triche- 

 chua latifostris (for mounting), Florida. 



Lewis Woolman. Two young moles, Scalops aquatieus, alcoholic, 

 New Jersey. 



Zoological Society of Philadelphia. Specimens prepared as 

 indicated : Mounted : Nilgliai, Boselaphus tragocamelua. To be mounted : 

 Axis Deer, Cervus axis ; European Otter (male), Lutra Intra ; Mongoose 

 Lemur, Lemur mongoz ; Chimpanzee, Anthropopitheeus troglodytes. 

 Skin and skulls : Brush-tailed Wallaby, Petrogale penicillata ; South 

 American Opossum, DUielpMs cinerea (no skull); Nine-banded Arma- 

 dillo, 2'atu 7iovemcinctum ; Burchell's Zebra, Equus hurchelli ; Stanley's 

 Chevrotain, Tragulus stanhyanus ; two Arizona Cottontails, Lepus 

 arizoncB minor ; two European Hares, Lepus europaus ; Gopher, Crato- 

 geomys castanops ; Gray "Wood Rat, Neotoma mieropus caneseens ; 

 Agouti, Dasyprocta istlimica ; Price's Chipmunk, Tamias pricei ; Alger- 

 ian Hedgehog Erinaceus algerus ; Two Black -footed Raccoons, Procyon 

 Uernandezii ; European Otter (female), Lutra Intra; Great-eared Pox, 

 Otocyon megalotis ; Black-backed Jackall, C'anis mesomelas ; Japanese 

 Macaque, Macacus fuscatus; Mona Monkey, Cercopithecus mona ; 

 White-crowned Mangaby, Cercocehus athiops ; Hocheur Monkey, Cerco- 

 pithecus nictitans ; Dwarf Lemur, Microeebus coquereli ; Black Lemur, 

 Lemur macaco. Skeletons: Rufous-necked Wallaby, Z/aJaTOatorua rufi- 

 collis ; Great Kangaroo, Macropus giganteus. Skulls . Hamadryas 

 Baboon, Papio Jiamadryas ; Japanese Deer, Cerms sika ; Prehensile- 

 tailed Porcupine, Coeiula prehensilis ; Japanese Monkey, Macacus fus- 

 catus. Alcoholic : five Bats from Pecos, Texas. 



BiKDS. 



Col. G. S. Anderson. Eight bird skins from the Philippines. 



R. L. Blankenberg. Ostrich egg. 



C. B. Clement. Pied-billed Grebe, Podiiymbus podiceps. 



Delaware Valley Ornithological Club. Two nests and eggs of 

 Pennsylvania birds for the D. V. O C. collection. 



O. G. DiEHL. Specimen of Australian Paraquet, Callopsitlacus novm- 

 hollandia (mounted). 



C. H. GuiLBERT. Jlockingbird, Mimus polygloitos. 



Alfred C. Harrison and Dr. IL M. Hiller. Collection of four 

 hundred and forty bird skins from Sumatra. 



Mr. and Mrs. T. R. Hill. Two skins of Canada Grouse, Canacliiles 

 canadensis, Alaska 



Purchased. Seven bird skins from Chihuahua, Mexico ; forty bird 

 skins from Colorado, Texas, etc. 



Purchased by Subscription. Collection of bird skins from the 

 Galapagos Islands. 



J. A. G. Rehn. Skin of Meadow Lark, Sturnella magna. 



J. A. G. Rehn and H. L. Viereck. (Collected on Academy Expe- 




816 PKOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Dec, 



dition to New Mexico ) One hundred and twenty-one skins of birds 

 and three nests. 



S. N. Rhoads. Collection of Florida bird skins and several specimens 

 of Micropus from Mexico. 



Mrs. Charles Schaffer. Skins of "Water Ousel, Cinclus jneiicanus, 

 and Jay, Cyanocilta atelleri. 



L. I. Smith, Jr. Skin of Night Heron, Nyctieorai n. ncBvius, Dela- 

 ware county, Pa. 



RosEALLA Stuart. Skin of Robin, 3ferula migratoria (verj' old cage 

 bird). 



C. C. Taylor. Skin of Franklin's Grouse, Dendrogapus frnnklini. 



H. L. ViERECK. Nine skins of Pennsylvania and Virginia birds. 



Zoological Society of Pennsylvania. Specimens prepared as 

 follows : Skeletons ; Myeteria americana, Coscorobu coscoroba, Pelecaiius 

 crispus. Skull and sternum : Cormorant, Phalacroforax sp. Skins : 

 Two Heleodytes brumieicapillus, Dissemiirus paradisceu», Cotinga cineta, 

 Tanagra abbas, Conurus paiagonus, Pauxi pauxi, Carpodacus purpureus 

 (abnormal). Nest and eggs : Heleodytes brunneicapillus. 



Reptiles and Batrachians. 



C. M. Barber. Two reptiles from Chihuahua, Mexico. 



Arthur Erwin Brown. Three specimens of Coluber subocnlaris, 

 and one Ophibolus attenuatus type. Collection of two hundred and 

 twenty-one reptiles mainly from Western Texas. 



Dr. H. C. Chapman. Soft-shelled Turtle from Cooper's Creek, N. J. 



Dr. S. G. Dixon. Toad, Bufo lentiginosus amerieanus, British Colum- 

 bia. 



Alfred C. Harrison, Jr., and Dr. H. M. IIiller. C'Dllection of 

 reptiles from Sumatra. 



Joseph L. Hicks. Gecko, Jamaica. 



Dr. William E. Hughes. Small collection of reptiles from Chihua- 

 hua, Mexico. 



Dr. W. H. Jones' Estate. Several reptiles from various localities. 



WiTMEH Stone, and J. A. 6. Rehn. Several reptiles from New 

 Jersey. (Collected for the Academy.) 



Witmer Stone. Muhlenberg's Turtle, Chelopus muhlenbergi, Pean- 

 sylvania, and Green Snake, Cyclophis cestivis. New Jersey. 



I. A. Sweigart. Stuffed Alligator, skin of Rattlesnake. 



L. H. T. Townsend, and C. M. Barber. Two Turtles, Nieoria, 

 rubida, Colina, Mexico. 



Lieut. H. L. Willouohby. Young Crocodile, C. amerieanus. 



Dr. H. C. Wood. Small series of reptiles from Egypt. 



Zoological Society of Philadelphia. Crocodile, C. amerieanus ; 

 two snake-eating Cobras, Naja bungara ; Madagascar Boa, lioa mada- 

 gascu.riensis ; Varanus niloticus ; lhre« Emyda granosa. 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 817 



Fishes. 



J. Cope. Cottus ictalops, Chester county, Pa. 



Alfked. C. Harrison, Jr., and Dr. H. M. Hiller. Large collec- 

 tion of Sumatran fislies. 



Dr. W. H. Jones' Estate. Several small fishes from Pacific islands. 

 David McCadden. Several Atlantic coast fishes. 

 Frank Smith. Cephalacanthui volans, New Jersey. 

 I. A. SwEiGART. Garcharius ohscums, stutfed. 



Insects. 



Academy Expedition to Texas and New Mexico. Twenty-five 

 thousand insects. 



O. W. Barrett. Eight Orthoptera from Porto Rico. 



Dr. a. Borelli. Sixt3--one Orthoptera from Paraguay. 



J. C. Bradley. Two hundred and thirty-eight insects, various orders. 



Dr. p. p. Calvert. Eighteen Odonata from United States. 



Dr. D. M. Castle. Twenty-four Coleoptera from the United States. 



T. D. a. Cockerell. One hundred and eighty-seven insects from 

 New Mexico. 



Ldcy V. Crawley. One Orthopter. 



E. T. Cresson. Two hundred and fifty Hymenoptera from Brazil. 



Dr. S. G. Dixon. Four insects from British America. 



S. N. Dunning. Five thousand four hundred and forty Hymenoptera 

 from United States. 



Dr. Philip Fischelis. Ten Solpugida; from Russia. 



W. J. Fox. Fourteen Hymenoptera from Brazil. 



George France. Three Lepidoptera from United States. 



A. C. Harrison, Jr., and Dr. H. M. Hiller. One thousand five 

 hundred insects from Sumatra. 



S. H. Hamilton. Forty-three insects from Cuba. Purchased. 



Morgan Hebard. One Lepidopter from Colorado. 



Y. Hirase. Five hundred Orthoptera from Japan. Purchased. 



Dr. AV. E. Hughes. Forty-two Coleoptera and Orthoptera from 

 Mexico. 



C. "W. Johnson. Seventy Diptera from United States. 



Dr. "W. H. Jones. One hundred and eighty insects from Corea. 



Warren Knaus. Eighteen Coleoptera from Kansas. 



L. W. Mekgel. Sixteen Lepidoptera (exotic). 



H. H. Newcomb. Four Lepidoptera from Mt. Katahdin, Maine. 



E. J. Nolan, M.D. Two insects from Italy. 



O. E. Poling. Forty -two Heterocera from Western United States. 



J. A. G. Rehn One hundred and eighty-four Orthoptera from 

 United States. 



S. N. Rhoads. One thousand two hundred and seventy-four insects 

 from Florida, Cuba and Mexico. 

 53 




818 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Dea , 



Wirt Robinson. Twenty-five Coleoptcra and Lepidopteia from 

 Jamaica, W. I. 



Henry Skinner. One hundred and ninety insects, including one 

 hundred and twelve Lepidoptera from Thibet. 



C. S. Small WOOD. Seventy Lepidoptera and Orthoptera from 

 Florida. 



J. B. Smith. Eight Heterocera from United States. 



K. Stoddard. One Lepidopter from Pennsylvania. 



W. Stone. Five Hymenoptera from Philadelphia. 



Mrs. Charles Schaeffer. Three Lepidoptera from British Colum- 

 bia. 



H. E. Summers. Thirty-one Hemiptera from United States. 



Lancaster Thomas. Four insects from North Carolina. 



C. H. T TowNSEND. Twenty Orthoptera from Colima, Mexico. 



E. G. Vanatta. Thirteen insects from Pennsylvania. 



H. L. ViERECK. Two Inuidred and thirty-five insects from United 

 States. 



H. W. Wenzel. Eleven Hymenoptera from North Carolina. 



.Joseph Willcox. Sixty Coleoptera from North Carolina. 



Dr. H. C. Wood. Sixty-six Coleoptera from Africa. 



Zoological Society of Philadelphia. Four Scolopendra and 

 insects. 



F. S. ScHAUPP. One luindred and fifty-nine Orthoptera from Texas. 

 WiT.MEK Stone and J. A. G. Rehn. Five hundred insects from New 



Jersey Pine Barrens. 



Purchased from E. J. Oslaii. Two hundred and two insects from 

 Arizona and New Mexico. 



Recent Moi.lusca. 



LuciEN Alexander. Two species of bivalves from Daytona, Fla. 



John. A. Allen. Four species of shells from Delaware and Penn- 

 sylvania. 



Rev. E. a. Ashmcn. Ninety trays of laud shells from Arizima and 

 New Mexico. 



C. F. Baker. Seven species of North American laud and marine 

 shells. 



Dr. Fred Baker. Two species of Truneatcllu from California. 



F. C. Baker. Two species of Planorbis from Maine and Wisconsin. 



JIrs. Bea.man. One species of Sistrum. 



A. C. BiLLUPS. Twenty -three si)ecies of shells from Indiana. 



DwiGiiT Blaney. Three species of Vertifjo from Maine. 



H. C. BouDicN. Three species of Unio from Canada. 



Botanical Section. One shell from Surinam. 



F. W. Bryant. Co-types of Glyptostoma newberryanum deprcssum 

 Bryant. 



Miss Mabel Buck. Twelve species of marine shells from Barbadoes. 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 819 



J. L. Bock. Bonis oblongus Miill., from Barbadoes. 



Jacob B. Butler. One species of MoUusca taken from Rockflsb. 



Fked L. Button. Fifteen species of Nortli American laad and 

 marine shells. 



Dr. H. C. Chapman. Twenty-nine jars of Cephalopoda, etc., from 

 Naples. 



George H. Clapp. Twenty-eight species of shells from America and 

 Japan. 



T. D. A. Cockerell. Ten species of bind shells from New ifexico. 



T. D. A. Cockerell aud Miss Mary Cooper. Two species of shells 

 from New Mexico. 



O. CoLLETT. Amphidromus albizoniitus simoni 3c>\\s%., from Ceylon. 



Prop. E. D. Cope Estate. Twenty -three species of Mollusca. 



Mrs. Annie P. Cope. Thirty-uine species of Indo-Pacitic shells. 



O. A. Crandall. One species of Physa from Tennessee. 



Prof. W. H. Dall. Nine species of North American Venericardia. 



L. E. Daniels. Two species oi Polyyyra from Indiana. 



James M. Delaney. Three species of Japanese marine shells. 



Binney W. Earl. Two species of land and fresh-water shells from 

 Burlington, N. J. 



J. II. Ferriss. Ninety species of land shells. North Carolina, Arkan- 

 sas, etc. 



John Ford. Naniiia oomplanata Mt., from Borneo. 



R. C. McGregor. Two species of land shells from Washington. 



George W. Griffith. Vilrea cellaria Miill., from Wilmington, Del. 



G. K. GuDE. Six species of land shells trom India and Japan. 



A. Gulick. Eulota cavicollis Pils., from Teje, Omi, Japan. 



Mrs. W. H. Harned. Two species of bivalves from Holland. 



Alfred C. Harrison aud Dr. H. M. IIiller. One species of 

 AmpuUaria from Sumatra. 



Dr. J. W. Harshbergek. Mytilns from New Jersey. 



Prof. Angelo Heilprin. Thirty-six species of mollusks from Mar- 

 tmiquo and St. Kitts. 



J. B. Henderson, Jr. Three species of Urocoptidce from Haiti. 



y. Hirase. Three hundred and thirty-one species of Japanese laud 

 shells. 



O. P. Jenkins. Three jars of slugs in alcohol from California. 



C. W. Johnson. Three species of marine shells from Florida. 



F. W. Kelsey. Three species of marine Gastropoda from California. 

 Dr. R. J. Kirkland. Acanthimda harpa in alcohol from Michigan. 

 William A. Marsh. One species of Quadrula from Tennessee. 



D. N. McCadden. One Loliyo in alcohol from Stoue Harbor, N. .1. 

 Clarence B. Moore. Two hundred and twenty-one trays of marine 



shells from western Florida. 



P. W. Moore. Vitrinizonites latimmus in alcohol fioiu Blowing 

 Rock, N. C. 




820 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



Dr. E. J. Nolan. Tea trays and two jars of laud sludls from Italy. 

 Ida S. Oldrotd. Two species of marine shells from California. 



C. R. Okcutt. Eight trays of Piqndce (rem California. 



Dr. CHARLE.S Penrose. Nine species of land shells from Idaho. 



H. A. PiLSBRY. Eighteen trays of shells from New Ireland and 

 Tennessee. 



Sadie F. Price. Three species oi Polygyra from Kentucky. 



PuRCH.\sED. Two hundred and fort\--six trays and eight jars of alco- 

 holic mollusks from Cuba, Mexico, East Indies, etc. 



JouN Ramie. Veronicella gilsoni Coll., from Fiji Islands. 



J. A. G. Rehn and H. L. Viereck. Twenty-four trays and one jar 

 of land shells from New Mexico and Texas. 



8. N. Rhoads. Eight species of land and fresh-water shells from 

 Massachusetts and Pennsylvania. 



John Ritchie, Jr. Chelidonura Mrundo Mart., from Upper Congo. 



S. Raymond Roberts. Six species of marine shells. 



E. W. Roper. Vertigo gouldi Binn., from Massachusetts. 



Rev. J. RowELL. Sixteen species of shells from California and Africa. 

 Mrs. T. E. Ruggx-es. Seven species of marine shells. 



F. A. Sampson. Polygyr'a mooreana W. G. B., from Texas. 



H. E. Sargent. PomatiopsU lapidaria Say, from North Carolina. 

 Silas L. Schumo and U. C. S.mith. Eleven species of Jamaican land 

 shells. 

 Db. B. Sh.\rp. Chiton apiculatua Say, from Nantucket, Mass. 

 CHARLEfe Simpson. Auricula pellucens'^Df.e., from S. Florida. 

 Burnett Smith. Eighteen species of American shells. 



G. W. H. SoKLNER. Seven jars and two trays of MoUusca from Wash- 

 ington, D. C. 



B. Strubell. Twenty species of land shells from the Molucca Islands. 

 E. R. Sykes. Two species of Eulima from England. 



D. Thaanu.m. Fifty species of marine shells from Pacific Islands. 



U. S. National Museum in Exchange. One specimen of Oaza 

 superba Dall, from the Gulf of Mexico. 



E. G. Vanatta. Four species of bivalves from Chestertown, Md. 

 T. Van Hynino. Polygyra muUiltneata Say, from Iowa. 



Henry Viereck. Eight jars of land shells in alcohol from Pennsyl- 

 vania and New Jersey. 



H VON Ihekino. Three species of South American land shells. 



Bry'ant Walker. Forty-flve species of American land and fresh- 

 water shells. 



H. W. Wenzel. Seven species of shells from New Jersey. 



Joseph Willcox. Fourteen species of land and fresh-water shells 

 from North Caralina. Suite of thirty one specimens of Cypraa exan- 

 thema (No. 72152-4). 



Dr. Harold Bacon Wood. Four species of land and marine shells 

 from ^lexico. 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



821 



L. WOOLMAN. Three species of North American shells. 

 S. YosmwAEA. Thirteen trays and eight jars of alcoholic land shells 

 from Ogasawara-jima. 



Worms. 



Rev. E. H. Ashmun. Larval trematodes. 



T. D. A. CocKERELL. Nephclopsis and Eysobdella ; five bottles of 

 Polyc?t(Bta. 



Sir Charles Elliot. Larval trematodes. 



S. H. Hamilton. Pheretima. 



Alfred Harrisox, Jr., and Dr. H. M. Hiller. Six bottles of Plan- 

 arians. 



Dr. H. p. Johnson. Three species of Californian Polychmta. 



Estate of Dr. W. H. Jones. Eighteen bottles of Polychmta. 



Prof. W. G. Libbey and A. Ortmann. Thirty-nine bottles of 

 Greenland Polychata. 



J. Percy Moore. Twenty-nine bottles of Planarians and leeches from 

 Patagonia ; three hundred and nineteen bottles of Polychmta, Massa- 

 chusetts. (Collected for the Academy.) 



Dr. Charles B. Penrose. Cysticerci of Tmnia marginata. 



J. A. G. Rehn and H. L. Viereck. (Academy Expedition to New 

 Mexico.) Three bottles of Oucullarius from Phrynosoma. 



S. N. Rhoads. Filaria from Skunk. 



Dr. Benjamin Sharp. Thirty-three bottles of worms chieily Euro- 

 pean. 



Dr. H. Skinner. Erpobdella punctata. 



George W. N. Soelner. Rhynchodesmus terrestris. 



Burnett Smith. Lcpidonotus squamatus. 



L. I Smith, Jr. Filaria from Night Heron. 



Witmer Stone. Six bottles of Planarians and leeches. 



E. G. Vanatta. Uelodriliis. 



Prof. A. E. Vereill. Seven bottles of Oligoehmta, Bermuda. 



Zoological Society of Philadelphia. Nine bottles of round and 

 tape worms. 



Other Invertebrates. 



Dr. H. C. Chapman. Twenty jars of alcoholic invertebrates from 

 Naples, and Bar Harbor, Maine. 



Dr. S. G. Dixon. Fan coral Acropora muricata, Jamaica. 



Alfred C. Harrison, Jr., and Dr. H. M. Hiller. Several crabs 

 from Sumatra. 



Dr. W. H. Jones Estate. Several bottles of invertebrates from var- 

 ious localities. 



David McCadden. Jelly fish, Stone Harbor, N. J. 



Ida S. Oldroyd. Laqueus californicns, San Pedro Bay 




822 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



H. A. PiLSBRY. One milliped from Cades Cove. 



Purchased. One Crab, Cuba, 



S. N. Ehoads. Several alcoholic invertebrates, various localities. 



Joseph Willcox. Cambarus from Blowing Rock, N. C. 



Veetebeate Fossils. 

 Pdrch.\sed. Eleven specimens of fossil fishes. 



Invebtebeate Fossils. 



John A. Allen. Pvlyyyi-a, Wounded Knee, South Dakota. 



Rev. Le.\nder T. Chambeklain, D.D. Additions to the Isaac Lea 

 Collection of Eocene mollusks. Seven hundred and thirtj- trays. 



Dr. S. G. Dixon. Brachiopods from Islesboro, Maine, and series of 

 Trilobites from British Columbia. 



Geoege C. Gillespie. Baculites ovatus. 



C. J. Hathaway'. Specimens of fossils from Moosehead Lake, Me. 



John Torpey. Five specimens of fossils. 



Fossil Plants. 

 Geological Section. Slab of Fern impressions. 



Minerals. 



E. Goldsmith. Several minerals and rocks from Pennsj'Ivania and 

 Colorado. 

 Mohawk Mining Co. Jlobawkite, Michigan. 



Archaeology- and Ethnology. 



Clarence B. Mooke. Cast of skull of "Pithecanthropus," Java. 

 Many additions to the Moore Collection. 



Purchased. Several Indian utensils, Western Te.xas ; Jilexicau neck 

 lace with onyx pendant. 



Charles and Theodoke Town. Whip made from vegetable fibre, 

 Jamaica. 



Plants. 



Amos P. Brown, Ph.D. One hundred and thirty siMJCimens from 

 Labrador. 



Stewardson Brown. Four hundred and thirty specimens from Cali- 

 fornia and Oregon, tliree hundred and fifty specimens from Pennsyl- 

 van-a and Xew Jersey. 



J. L. Buck. Fruit of Aristolochia ringens Vahl. 




1902.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 838 



William M. Caxby. Eight hundred specimens principally from the 

 south and west, and eight specimens of C'ratcegtis. 



Samuel G. Dixox, M.D. Specimen of Pimis edulis Engelm, from the 

 Yellowstone. 



T. W. Edmoxdsox. Fifty-three specimens from Ontario, Canada. 



William J. Fox. Fourteen specimens from the old world, and 

 twenty-one specimens from North America. 



E. A. Gaeeatt. Fifty specimens from British Columbia. 



John W. Haeshbergee, Ph.D. One hundred and twenty specimens 

 from Jamaica, Haiti and Santo Domingo. 



Purchased. Xine hundred Californian plants collected by Heller 

 and Brown, five hundred and fortj' W. Australian plants collected by 

 Dr. Pritzel and three hundred and fifty plants from Canary Islands col- 

 lected by Dr. Bornmiiller. 



J. A. G. Rehn and H. L. Viereck. Two thousand specimens from 

 New Mexico (collected for the Academy). 



Charles F. Saunders. Seventy-five specimens principally from 

 Vermont and North Carolina. 



Benjamin H. Smith. Two thousand specimens from the Rocky 

 Mountain region, and specimen oi Heterotoma lobelioides Zucc. 



E. S. Steele. Specimen oi Lacinaria pilosa Ait. 



CuRWEN Stoddaet, Jr. Specimen of Kalrexiteria paniculata Laxm. 



E. G. Vanatta. One hundred specimens from Pennsylvania and 

 Maryland. 



Charles S. Williamson. One hundred specimens from various parts 

 of the Eastern United States. 




824 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[De 



INDEX TO SPECIES, ETC., DESCRIBED AND REFERRED 

 TO IN THE PROCEEDINGS FOR 1902, 



Species described as new are indicated by heavy-faced, synonyms by 

 italic numerals. 



Abies balsamea 474, 476, 479 



pectinata 479 



Ablabes flaviceps 178 



tricolor 180 



Acer dasj'carpum 667 



rubrum 647, 653 



saccharinum 667 



Achillea millefolium 664 



Acrida nasuta 629 



Acridida; 639, 718 



Acridiinfe 635 



Acridina; 629, 718 



Acridium fcEdatiim 636 



japonicum 636 



Acrydiinffi 629, 718 



Acrydium japonicum 629 



nisrofasciatum 633 



Actino'bolus 699, 700 



Actinoe sarsi 269 



Aclinoplirys 257 



Actitis liypoleuca 671 



Acusta la'ta 240 



sieboldiana 236 



Adapis 253 



jEcidium elatinum 473 



(Peridermium) elatinum 



474, 475 



Aello 160, 161 



cuvieri 260, 161, 16S 



jEoloplus crassus 723 



elegans 723 



Agaria 699 



Agenia accepta 734 



euphorbise : . . . 734 



petiolatus 734 



Agriolimax campestris 421 



Aiolopus tamulus 031 



Alcedo capensis 674 



chloris 675 



euryzouia 675 



meninting 075 



Alcemerops amicta 676 



Aleurodicus 279, 280 



altissimus 280 



anonse 280 



cockerelli 380 



cocois 280 



dugesii 280 



holmesii... 379, 280 



iridescens 280 



jamaicensis 280 



minimus 280 



mirabilis 380 



ornatus 380 



persea; 280 



pulvinatus 280 



Aleyrodes 279, 280 



abnorrais 282 



abutilonea 283 



acaciiB 283 



aceris 280, SS2 



at'pim 281 



asarumis 3'<3 



aspargi 281 



asplenii 281 



aurantii 281, 283 



aurea 281 



aureocincta 282 



avellanse 280 



banksiaj 281 



barodensis 281 



berbericola 282 



bergii 381 



brassiea: 280 



caprea; - 280 



carpini 280 



cerata 281 



citri 292, 283 



cockerelli 281 



comata 281 



corni 282 



coronata 282 




1902.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



825 



Aleyrodes cotesii 281 



fioceata 281 



decipiens 281 



dubia 280 



erigerontis 282, 283 



euffenife 281, 283 



fagi 281 



tilicum 281 



fltchi 282, 283 



floccosa 281 



floridensis 282 



fodiens 281 



forbesii 282 



fragrarise 280 



fraxini 280 



fnmipennis 281 



gelatinosa 283 



jrossypii 281 



goyaboe 281 



graminicola 282 



liirsuta 281 



horrida 282 



immaculata 281 



inconspicua 282 



ielenekii 2S1 



'lacerdiB 282 



lactea 281 



lauri 381 



lecanioides 281 



limbata 281 



lonicerte 281 



longicornls 281 



melanops 282, 283 



melicyti 2S1 



mori 282 



inori arizouensis 283 



nephrolepidis 383 



nicotiana; 283, 283 



nigra 281 



iiubilans 281 



papillifer 2S1 



parva 283 



pergandei 283 



perileuca 382, 283 



pbaUienoides 281 



phillyrea 281 



piperis 281 



plumosa 283 



prenanthis 281 



proletella 280, 281 



pyrola: 283 



quercus 281 



quercus-aquaticiB 282 



rolfsii 282 



ribium 281 



rubi 281 



rubicola 281 



ruborum 283, 283 



Aleyrodes sacchari 281 



simplex 281 



spiraeie 281 



spirgeoides 283 



stellata 382 



! struthanthi 282 



styphelia; 281 



T-signata 381 



tinffioides 381 



tracheifer 282 



vaccinii 381 



vaporariorum 282 



variabilis 282, 283 



vinsonioides 282 



vittata 383, 283 



xylostei 281 



youngi 283 



Aleyrodidaj 279 



Allobopliora fcetida 303 



Alpha 718 



Alycceus biexcisus 26 



reinhardtii 26 



Amadina leucogastra CSS 



Amaranthus hybridus panicu- 



latus 661 



paniculatus 661 



retroflexus 661 



phcenicura 671 



Amblystoma 88 



Ambrosia artemesifefolia 664 



trifida 664 



Amelanchier canadensis . .500, 501 



Ammodenia peploides... 651, 661 



Ammophila arenaria, 644-653, 656 



658, 660 



arundinacea 660 



Amnicolid® 131 



Amceba 356 



Ampelopsis qninquefolia 663 



Amphicarpaea monoica 662 



Amphitrite cirrata 276 



Anaptomorphoris 253 



Anas scutulata 671 



Ancistrocerus halophila 735 



sulphureus 736 



Ancylus 513 



Andropogon furcatus 666 



virginicus 647, 653 



Anethops 39 



occideutalis 40 



Anilocra 295 



Anoplius cylindricus. ....... 735 



(Pompilinus) marginatus. 735 



(Pompilinus) padrinus. . . 734 



AntLemis cotula 664 



Anthracoceros convexus 676 



malayanus 676 



Anthreptes malacensis 688 




826 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



Anthus malayensis 6S8 



rufulus malayensis 688 



Antrozous minor 389, 390 



pacificus 389, 890 



pallidas 389, 390 



Anuropsis malaccensis 686 



Apis mellifera 35 



Apocynum cannabinum 663 



Aquilegia canadensis 661 



Araueus cinereus 555 



Arctogale Icucotis 136 



Arctogalidia iuornata 156, 157 



leucotis 157 



simplex 143, 156 



Arctosa 536 



cinerea 555 



Arcturus 700 



rudis 703, 711 



Arenaria peploides G61 



Argusianus argus 671 



Armadillidium 300, 317 



Armadillo asellus 295 



Aronia arbiitifolia 662 



Arphia teporata 720 



Artamides sumatrensis 681 



AUamus leucorliynchus 688 



Artemisia stelleriana 649 



Artibeus hercules 638 



iamaiceiisis 639, 640 



parvipes 638, 745 



plauirostris 638, 039 



Asarcornis scutulata 671 



Asclepias iucarnata 642, 663 



tuberosa 663 



Asellus 342 



Ashmunella 511 



Astacus 295, 308 



fluviatilis 321 



Astarte 705 



flabella 705 



perplana 700, 705 



radians 705 



Astartidu' 696 



Aster diflusns 664 



laterirtorus 664 



multidorus 669 



nova belgii var. litoreus . . 669 



patcus 669 



subulatus 664 



surculosus 669 



tenuifolius 664 



umbellatus 669 



Asterochilon 282 



lecanioides 282 



Astrsus stellatus 649, 665 



AtrjK-loniorpha bedeli 635 



Alriplex arenaria Oil 



hastata 661 



Atriplex patulum var. hasta- 



tum 661 



Aurelia 766, 776, 777 



Autolj'tus lougisetosus 274 



Axioiiiea cateuata 275 



Axiouice flexuosa 276 



Azalea viscosa 668 



Azarella Gd9 



Azaria 6^9 



Baccharis halimifolia, 650, 652, 653, 



664 



Beguina 697,698 



Bellia borneeusis 175 



Belogona Euadenia 511 



BemTjidium anguliferum 73 



affine 72 



assimile 73 



bifasciatum 72 



couciunum 73, 78 



dubitaus 72 



falsum 76 



fuchsii 77 



humboldtensis 74 



obscuripenne 74 



4-maculatum 72 



sulcatum 71, 73 



suspectum 70, 76 



vandykei 75 



variegatum 71 



vile 72 



Bidens bipinnata 664 



Bifidaria 513 



contracta 420 



pentodon 420 



Bithynia striatula 121 



striatula var. japonica.... 121 



Blanfordia bensoiii 26, 234 



japonica 26, 27, 235 



japonica var. simplex .... 26 



BlattidK 717 



Bombus americauorum var. 



pallidus 35 



fervidus 35 



pennsylvanicus 35 



Bonellia 205 



Bothropolys 39, 42 



bipunctatus ^3 



multidentatus iS 



nobilis JfS 



xanti 42 



Botrychium dissectuni 665 



obli(iuum 665 



J Brachyphylla cavernarum. . . . 409 



nana 409, 745 



Bracliypodius (?) criniger GSS 



imniaculatus 6SS 



Brachypteryx polyogenys .... 686 

 i Bracliypus eutilotus 6SS 




1902.] 



NATUEAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



827 



Brachystola magna 



Bradburva virginiana 



Brad ycebus 138, 



Broussonetia papyrifera 



Bubulcus eoromandus 



Bucco chr3-sopogon 



duvauceli 



hseraacephalus 



bayi 



mysticophanes 



oorti 



Buceros convexus 



malaj'anus 



rbinoceros 



undulatus 



Bucbanga cineracea 



Buda 



marina 



Bufo asper 183, 



biporcatus 



divergens 



melanostictus 



Bulimulus dealbatus pasonis. . 



sp 



Bunganis fasciatus 



flaviceps 



Cabralia (Scbmitzii) 



Cacomantis merulinus 



Cakile americana 



edentula 651. C5a, 658, 



Calamaria flaviceps 



leucocepbala 



vermiformis 



Callula baleata 



C'aloperdix oculea sumatrana. 



sumatrana 



Calopbrynws pleurostigma. . . . 



Calorbampbus bayi 



Calotes cristatellus 177, 



mohiccauus 



Calyptogena 61)8, 



pacifica 700, 



Calyptomoeiia viridis 



Calystegia sepiuin 



Campaiiubiria Jobnstoni 



Campylaeautba vegana 



Cancroma coromanda 



Caprimulgus affiuis 



Carapa giiianensis . . .122, 123, 



moluccensis 123, 



nicaraguensis 



procera 122, 



surinamensis 



Carcinas msenas 



Carcineutes pulcbellus 



Oardamine birsuta 



Cardiocardita ajar 



723 



607 

 l.iS 

 607 

 671 

 679 

 679 

 G79 

 679 

 079 

 679 

 676 

 676 

 676 

 676 

 689 

 659 

 661 

 695 

 183 

 183 

 183 

 511 

 239 

 181 

 181 

 701 

 678 

 602 

 662 

 180 

 094 

 180 

 694 

 671 

 671 

 183 

 679 

 693 

 177 

 700 

 712 

 (iSO 

 063 

 785 

 723 

 67i 

 677 

 124, 

 125 

 125 

 122 

 124 

 122 

 347 

 675 

 003 

 697 



Oardita 698, 705, 707 



abbreviata 705 



a-gyptiaca 699 



affinis 703. 706, 707. 713 



(Carditamera) atflnis 706 



ajar 699 



angisulcata 706 



antiquata 699, 713 



arata 698, 702 



arcella. . 707 



arctica 700 



borealis 700. 711 



conradi 703 



crassa 706 



crassicosta 707 



cuvieri 715 



dactylus . . 700 



dominguensis 706 



(Glans) dominguensis. . . . 703 



flammea 707 



floridana 700 



(Carditamera) floridana . . 702 



gibbosa 703 



gracilis 703, 706 



(Carditamera) gracilis. . . . 702 



Grayi 706 



incrassata 703, 706, 713 



laticostata 706 



micbelini 70S 



minima 706 



(Carditamera) minima . . .' 703 



(Glans) uaviformis 707 



nodulosa 713 



ovata 706 



pectunculus 707 



(Carditamera) pectuneulus 703 

 (Carditamera) radiata .... 707 



sulcata 699 



(Glans) sulcosa 707, 715 



(Carditamera)subquadrata 707 



tricolor 706 



tumida 707 



turgida 706 



varia 707 



vestita 704 



Carditacea 696-716 



Carditamera 097,698, 701 



Carditella 698, 703 



pallida 70J, 713 



semen 712 



tegulata 713 



Cardites 699, 700 



Carditid* 096, 698, 702 



Carditinffi 698 



Carditopsis 703 



flabellum 702, 712 



smitbii 705 



Carduus spinossissinius 664 




828 



PKOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



Carex festucacea 666 



mublenbergii 666 



stiaminea 660, 666 



straminea var. brevior. . . . 666 



Carpophaga senea 672 



Carycbium exiguum 421 



Cassia chaniEecbrista 042, 662 



nictitans 662 



Cassiopea 766, 767 



Ceblepyris culminatus 6S2 



sumatrensis 6Si 



Celastriis scandens 662 



Celtis occidental is 653, 666 



Cencbrustribuloides. .652, 658, 660 



Centropus javanicus 678 



sinensis 678 



Centrosema yirgiuianum 667 



Centurio 161 



Ceuturioniuse 161 



Cephalanthus occidentalis.642, 669 



Ceratina dupla 730 



Cerceris cockerelli 731 



insolita 733 



provancheri 731 



Ceropsis minima 701, 712 



Certhia brasiliana 6SS 



malacensis GSS 



Cervidfe 305 



Cervus equinus 133 



javanicus 128, 131 



Ceutopliilus pallidus 725 



uniformis 725 



Ceyx euery thra 675 



' . rufidorsa 675 



tridactyla 675 



Chajtoglena 791 



Ch.-etoty pbla 791 



Chalcoecyx xantliorhynchus. . 678 



Cbama calyculata 69S 



phrciietica 699 



trapezia 699 



Chamaicyparis thj'oides. . .647, 666 



CliamidiE 696 



Cliaptia malayensis 689 



Cbarailrius dominicus fulvus. . 671 



fiilvus 671 



Chenopodium album 661 



anil)rosioides 661 



authclniinthicum 661 



Chilonyctcris 161, 163 



bootlii 401 



mexicana...400, 401. 402, 403 



l)ainellii 401 



poitoricensis 400, 401 



rubiginosa 402, 403 



Chiniaphila maculata 663, 668 



Chione 701 



Chiroinys 253, 253 



Cbloropsis cyauopogon 683 



icleiocephala 683 



media 683 



zosterops 683 



Chone infundibuliformis 376 



Cliorthippus latipennis 631 



Chotorhea chrysopogon 679 



Chrysochloris 245 



Chrysochraon japoniciis 631 



Chrysopelea ornata 181, 694 



Chrysopblegma liumii 679 



mentale humii 679 



minialum malacceusu 679 



Cilisticus convexus 286 



Oinnyris brasiliana 688 



Circinaria concava 420, 439 



Circotettix undulatus 733 



Cirolana 394, 295 



Cistenides granulala 275 



liyperborea 275 



Cistudo eurypygia 386, 387 



Citrus ; 282 



Ciltocincla macrurus 684 



macrurus suavis 684 



tricolor 684 



Clausilia aculus 6^5, 526, 582 



addisoni 520 



agna 309, 371. 531 



aulacophora 367-369 



aulacopoma 373 



aurantiaca 374, 377 



aurantiaca var 337 



aurantiaca var. erberi. 375, 376 

 aurantiaca var. Iivpoi)tv- 



chia S7G. 377, .533 



aurantiaca var. plicilabris, 376, 



533 



awajiensis, 369-371, 373, 374 



bigeueris 370 



bilabiata 533 



bdabrata 377,378, 533 



brevior 519, .533 



caloptyx 369, 372, 533 



cary stoma 36.5-367 



carystoma var. jayi.. .366, 367 



comes 524 



creuilabium 374 



daclylopoma 521-523 



d;emonorum 381. 533 



dalli 377, 378 



digonoptyx 524, 526. 528 



dorcas T 361 



ducalis 361 



ducalis var.decapitnta. 361,531 



entospira 881 



euliolostoma 867. 379, 524 



eurystoma var. brachj'p- 

 tychia o30. 521 




1902.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



829 



Clausilia excelleus 380 



expansilabiis 524 



goniopoma 581, 522, 533 



gouldl 238 



gracioe 3(i7 



harimensis 3fi9 



heteroptyx 362, 519 



hirasei 367 



liolotrema 378, 379 



huugertordiana 379, 524 



ignobilis 370 



luteilamellaris 531 



iotaptyx 370, 878 



ischna 370 



japonica 379 



iaponica var. surugiE. .520, 521 



■jos 7 523 



kurozuensis 518, 519, 532 



lewisii 532 



lirulata 237 



marteiisi 235 



micropeas 363 



mikado 374, 378 



initsukurii 360 



monelasmus 527 



neniopsis 530-532 



nesiotica 528 



oostoma 520-523 



oostoma var dactylopo- 



ma "..521, 532 



oostoma var. goniopoma, 522, 



532 



opeas 363, 364 



ortliatracla 377 



pachvspira 517, 532 



pigra 367, 368, 369 



pmguis 239 



plagioptyx 519, 520, 532 



platydera 531 



plici"lal)ris ...237, SIG, 377, 532 



pluviatilis .. .. 235 



proba 239, 525, 526 



rowlandi 524, 526, 533 



sericina 363, 365 



sericina var. minor 363 



sericina var. rliopalia, 365, 519 



shanghaiensis 523, 524 



sliiko'^kueusis 369, 370 



sieboldi, 236, 529, 529. 530, 531 

 sieboldi var. diptyx, 529, 531, 



533 



.sieboldtii 529 



spreta 238 



stenospira 239 



stereoma 520 



stereoma var. hexaptyx, 520, 



532 

 stimpsoni 235, 236 



Clausilia strictaluna var. 



emersa 531 



subaculus, 524, 525-527, 532 



subaurantiaca 371 



subgibbera 523,524 



siibignobilis 369, 376 



sublunellata, 361, 363, 364, 371, 

 517, 518 



subulina 363, 365 



subulina var. leucopeas, 364, 

 519 



tantilla 370 



tau 524-528 



tosana , 367-869 



tryoni 524 



una 379, 380 



valida 235 



validiuscula 365, 518 



variegata 528 



variegata var. uakadai. 528. 

 532 



Clemmys insculpta 885 



percrassa 385 



Clethra alnifolia 668 



C'litocybe trnllisata 649, 665 



Cnicus liorridulus 664 



Coccidium schubergii 7 



Cocblicopa lubrica 420, 429 



Colletes californicus 730 



Coluber melanurus 179 



oxycepUalus 179 



Columba a;nea 67S 



fulvicollis 612 



tignua 672 



turtur 672 



vernans 672 



Commelyna sp 600 



Coudylocardia 702 



pauliaua ... 702 



Condylocardiida;, 696. 697, 698, 701 



Condylophora lacustris 786 



Con voluta 195 



Convolvulus sepium 663 



Copsycbus suavis 6S^ 



saularis musicus 684 



Coptacra anuulipes 636 



cyanoptera 636 



foedata 636 



pra;morsa 636 



Coracius calonyx 673 



sumatranus 6S0 



Coralliopbaga 706 



Cordillacris occipitalis 718 



Coripia 700 



Corvus javanensis 690 



macrorbynchos 690 



religiosa 690 



Corydon sumatranus 680 




830 



PROCBEDING6 OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[De«., 



.500, 



Cossmannella 



Cotylorhiza 



CrassatellitidsD 



Cratiegus coccinea . . . 



Douglasii 



grandiflora 



nigra 



oxyacantha 



sauguiuea 



tomentosa 



Criniger phffiocephalus 



Cryptocheilus flammipennis . . 

 Cryptops 



postica 



Cuculns chlorophiBUS 



fugax 



intermedius 



Uigubris 



meruhnus 



xanthorhynchus 



Cuniua 766, 



Cupressus thyoides, 401, 466, 

 470, 494, i'3r,. 498, 



Cuscuta gronovii 663, 



Cj'anea 



Cyanops mysticophanes 



oorti 



Cyclemys dlioi- 



platynola 



Cyclocaidia 698, 



borcalis 



Cyclophoius kikaiensis 



turgidus 



Cydouia 



Cydonia vulgaris 



Cyliudrophis rut'us 



CymbnrliN'aclius macro rliyn- 



elms lemniscatus 



Cymolhoa 



Cynoinenis tittajchcilus 



C\-perus rylindricus 



filifulmis 



iuutallii 640, 



ovularis 



speciosus 



strigosvis 



Torreyi 



Cypselus comatus 



Dacelo concreta 



pulchella 



Daclylophorus 



Dactj'lotum pictuiu : . . 



variegatum 



Dasypterus iloridanus 



inlennedius 392, 



xauthiniis 



Dasyscyplia resinaria ....473, 

 479, 



699 

 766 

 696 

 501 

 501 

 501 

 501 

 501 

 501 

 501 

 683 

 733 

 39 



4i 

 67S 

 G77 

 677 

 677 

 078 

 67S 

 767 

 469 

 499 

 668 

 766 

 679 

 679 

 176 

 175 

 700 

 710 

 27 



37 

 501 

 500 

 178 



680 

 295 

 136 

 666 

 600 

 COO 

 060 

 660 

 044 

 066 

 677 

 675 

 675 

 18 

 725 

 725 



392 

 393 

 392 



474, 

 496 



Dasyscyplia Willkommii 



Datura sp 



Dendrelaphis caudoliueatiis 

 180, 



Dendrocitta occipitalis 



Dendrophis foi'mosus 



pictus 179, 



Dermauura cinerea 



phajotis 



rava 404, 



tolteca 



Dermouotus 161, 



fulvus 



Desmodium canadense 



paniculatuui 



Desiiiodus 



Diadasia australis 



rincoiiis opuntice 



DialeurodL'S 



Dialeurodicus 



Diapheromera sp 



DictEum sumatranum 



Dicrunis plalurus 



Dinodon semicarinatus 



Diodia virgiiiiaua 



Diospyros virgiuiana 



Diphylla 



Diploi-y uodon 



Diplonimatina cassa 



kiiensis 



kobelti 28, 



kobelti var. ampla 



nippoucnsis 



pudica 



teiiuiplica 



DiploplectrDii l)ruuneipes .... 

 Dipsadoiuori)lius cynodori . . . . 



dcndrophilus 



Discomedusic 



Discopleura capillacea 



Dissemurus bracliyphorus .... 



inalayensis 



platurus 



DissostC'ira Carolina 



Distichlis maritima 



spicata 



Da'Uingeria umbellata 



Dolomedes 536, 



albincus 



hastulatus 



idoneus 580, 588, 589, 



scapularis '... 589, 



scriptus 



scxpunctatus 



tenax 



tenebrosus . .586, 588, 589, 



urinator 586, 



Dondia americana 



.469 

 663 



694 

 691 

 180 

 694 

 404 

 405 

 405 

 404 

 102 

 400 

 662 

 062 

 248 

 728 

 728 

 283 

 280 

 718 

 688 

 600 

 185 

 604 

 653 

 248 

 253 

 28 

 28 

 29 

 28 

 28 

 28 

 28 

 733 

 180 

 180 

 760 

 603 

 690 

 690 

 690 

 721 

 655 

 654 

 609 

 586 

 589 

 589 

 590 

 590 

 589 

 589 

 589 

 590 

 588 

 661 




1902.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



831 



Draco flmbriatus 693 



bismatopogon 693 



quiuquet'asciatus 176 



volans 176, 693 



Drosera roUindifolia 647 



Dryocalamus tnlineatus 179 



tristrigatus 179 



Dryophis tasciolatus 694 



prasinus 181, 694 



Duronia 630 



Dytiscus 305, 341 



Echinochloa crus-galli. . .643, 644, 



660 

 Echinoniera hispida. . .4, 10, 12, 18 



Echiuorbynclius 223 



Eclipta alba 664 



Edoiius cineraceus 6S9 



Eisenia foetida 84 



Elanus hj'poleucos 673 



Eleocharis palustris glauces- 



cens 666 



rostellata 666 



Elis plumipes 736 



Elymus canadensis 666 



Enchytrreus albidus 81, 82 



maiinus 80, 82 



Encoptolophus costalis 720 



parvus 720 



Euhydrina valakadien 181 



Enicurus frontalis 6S4 



ruficapillus 684 



velatus 6S4 



Epacromia 631 



Ephippigera 59d 



tshivavensis 595, 596 



Erechtites hieracifolia 644, 664 



Eremobia 595 



magna 595 



Eremops 39 



Erigeron canadense 664 



Erinaceus 218 



Erosera flliformis 647 



Erycinella 701, 702 



avails 701 



Eucerceris insignis 731 



Eucichla boschi 681 



Eucouulus cliersinus 420 



fulvus? 420 



sterkii 420 



Eudrilus eugiuie 84 



Eulabes javanensis 690 



Eulota callizona maritimi .... 237 



fasciola 240 



(Cathaica) fasciola ...234, 240 

 (Mastigeulota) gainesivar. 



hakodatensis 234 



luhuana 237, 238 



luhuana tsushimana 236 



Eulota (Euliadra) qunesita 235 



similaris var 237 



vulgivaga var. laux 32 



senckenbergiaua var. 



awaensis 31 



Eumeces marginatus 185 



Eunoa 271 



nodosa 271 



(vrstedi 271 



Eunotia peclinalis 792 



Euonymus aniericanus 662 



Eupatorium perfoliatum 669 



teucrifolium 604 



verbenaefolium 664 



Euphredusa, 378, 379, 381, 523, 527, 



528 

 Euphorbia polygonifolia. .652, 662 



Euptilotus eutilotus 683 



Eurylaimus javanicus 680 



lemniscatus GSO 



Eurystonus calonyx 673, 674 



orientalis 673, 674 



Euthamia caroliniaua.646, 665, 669 



Exoascus 474 



Ej'prepocnemis plorans 637 



Falcata comosa 662 



Fametesta 30 



Felis bengaleusis 136 



Fimbrystylis capillaris 606 



spadicea 660 



Flabelligera aflinis 275 



int'undibularum 275 



Formica fusca subsericea, 602-604 



Fossarulus 121 



Fucus vesiculosus 650 



Fulgur 505 



canaliculatum 505, .506, .507 



carica 505, ,506, 507 



contrariura 506, 507 



corouatum 500 



maximum 506, 507 



perversum 507 



pyrum 505, 506. 507 



rapum 506 



striatum 506 



Fuligo (^tlialium) septica. . 649, 



665 



Funambiilus insignis 133 



insignis diversus 133 



Galeopithecus 135 



macrurus 135 



marmoratus 135 



philippensis 135 



rufus 135 



temmincki 135 



ternatensis 135 



undatus 135 



variegatus 135 




832 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



Galeopithecus volans..l3.j, 241-254 [ 



Galium circa-zans 664 



pilosum G64, 669 



trifidum 669 ! 



Gallus iiallus 672 



Ganeseila japouica 234 



myomphala 238 



tabuensis 285 



Garrulax bicolor 685 i 



Gastrodouta acerra.. .418, 420, 438 j 

 andrewsse. ..418, 419, 421, 437 | 



capsella 418, 419, 421 



capsella placentella . .418, 419, 

 421 



cerinoidea ? 420 



clappi 421 



coelaxis 418-420 



collisella 487 ; 



demissa 420, 483 



sularis. .417, 418, 420, 484, 435, 

 437 I 



gularis cuspklata 420, 435 I 



gularis var. decussala, 417, 420, 

 436 



gularis lawa; 420, 435 



gularis theloides 417, 420, 



434, 436, 437 



interna . . .421, 437 



intertexta 420, 433, 437 



lamellidens 418,419, 437 



lasmodou 436 



ligera 420 



multidentata 421 



phicentula 435 



significans ? 421 



suppressa 420, 433 



walkeri 421 



Gattyana amoudseui 259 



ciliata 263 



ciiTosa 259 



senta 259 



Gaultheria procumbens 663 



Gaylussaoia resinosa 647, 668 



Gecinuspuniceusobson'andus. 679 



Gecko monarchus 176 



stentor 176 



Geliyra inlermedia 183 



inutilata 176 



Geoemyda spinosa 176 



Geranium carolinianum 662 , 



robertianum 662 



Gerardia marilima 652, 663 



purpurea 663 



tcnuifolia 668 



Geum album 662 



canadense 662, 667 



Glans 699 



Olaucopis leucopterus 691 \ 



Glaucopis occipitalis. . ., 691 



Gleditschia triacanthos 667 



Globigerina 194 



Glossopbaga elougata 38 



longirostris 38 



soriciua 38 



soricina antillarum 37 



Glypliyalinia 432 



Gnaphalium obtusifolium 664 



polycephalum 664 



purpureum 664 



Gomphocerus clavatus 719 



Gonatodes kendali 176 



Goniobasis plicifera 119, 120 



proxima symmetrica 442 



Goniouema 750-790 



"aphrodite " 7.50 



murbacbii 750-790 



Goniouemus 750, 751 



Gouynema 750 



Gonvoeephalus liogaster 176 



Gordius '. '. . . 200 



Gracula saularis 684 



GrylHda; 726 



Grvllime 726 



Gryllus alogus 726 



armatus 726 



ciuerascens 634 



integer 726 



mexicauus 726 



(Locusta) migratorius. . . . 63i 



(Acrida) uasutus 629 



persoualus 726 



plorans 637 



'J'amulus 631 



velox 633 



Gygc 345 



Gymuodactylus marmoralus.. 176 



Gymnopus leucoceplialus 136 



Gymnosporangium 462 



biseptatum, 461-474, 475, 482, 



483, 486, 487, 489-402, 495, 



496, 497, 499, 501 



clavariceforme, 462, 463, 499, 



.501 



clavipes 463, 498, 500 



confusum 463 



conicum 462, 463, 498, .500 



conicum (juniperinum). . . 403 



Cunninghamianum 463 



Ellisii, 461-463, 465, 483, 486, 

 487, 489, 490. 495-498, 500, 668 



fuscum 462, 463, 498, 500 



globosum,. . .463, 483, 499, 501 



juniperi 462 



junipcrium 463 



macropus, 462, 463, 483, 485, 

 494, 499, 501 




1902.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



833 



Gymnosporangium nidus-avis. 



403, 499, 501 



sabiniB 463 



sabmse (fuscum) 463 



treraelloides 463, 463 



Hyrostacliys cernua 660 



Hadra peliomphala 236 



Halcyon arrastrougi 676 



chloris 675 



eoncreta 675 



Haldemanella 595 



robusta 595 



tshivavensis 595 



verruculata 596 



Haldemannia tschivavensis. . . 595 



Haldmanella 595 



tschivavensis 595 



Halodrilus littoralis S3 



Harniothoe glabra 273 



(Lxnilla) glabra 270 



imbricata, 359, 260, 264, 270, 

 371, 276 



(Evane) impar 270 



(Eunoa) nodosa 371 



trnncata 871 



( Eunoa) truncata 272 



Hedeia Helix 34 



Helenium autumnale 669 



Helianthenium canadense 663 



Helianthus giganteus 664 



sp 649, 669 



Heliastus aridus 723 



Helicina 25 



capsula 25 



hirasei 25 



japonica 233 



occulla 420, 431 



ogasawarana . 35 



pulchra 748 



yoshiwarana 26 



yoshiwarana var. arata ... 36 

 yoshiwarana var. niicro- 



theca 36 



Helicodiscus 513 



lineatus 431 



Hcli.x; alternata 439 



(Plectotropis) ciliosa. .235, 336 

 (Fruticicola) collinsoni. . . 338 

 (Fruticicola) commoda... 337 

 (Fruticicola) coucinna. . . . 338 



(Plectotropis) conella 235 



(Acusta) conispira 236 



(Fruticicola) craspedoche- 



ila 339 



cumberlandiana 439 



(Patula) depressa 340 



(Fruticicola) despecta 337 



(Camsena) editha 334,340 



53 



Helix (Patula) elatior 336 



(Fruticicola) genulabris.. 237 

 (Fruticicola) gibbosa .... 287 



herklotsi 238 



(Fruticicola) japonica, 384, 235 



(Acusta) Iseta 234 



levettei 511 



(Camana) luchuana 336 



luhuana ♦ 236 



(Camsena) niyomphala. . . 338 



operculina 30 



(Carufena) orientalis 336, 237 

 (Fruticicola) patruelis. . . . 335 



(Patula) paupera 334, 240 



(Fruticicola) peculiaris. . . 337 



(Camcena) peliomphala, 337, 



338 



(Fruticicola) proba 339 



(Conulus) pupula 340 



(CaniEena) pyrrhozona, 234, 



240 



(CamaBua) qusesita. . . .235, 238 



(Plectotropis) scabricula. . 235 



(Camsena) serotina 240 



(Plectotropis) setocincta. . 335 

 (Acusta) sieboldiana, 335-337 

 (Fruticicola) similaris, 338, 339 



simodiB 339 



(C'am:ena) simods 238, 240 



(Fruticicola) sphinctosto- 



ma 338 



(Plectotropis) squarrosa, 336, 



239 



(Fruticicola) stimpsoni. . . 237 



strebeli 429 



(Fruticicola) textrina 238 



(Plectotropis) trochula... 236 



Helodrillus 80. 84 



Hemidactylusfrenatus, 176, 183, 693 



marmoratus 184 



platyurus 176 



Hemiderma perspicillatum, 408, 



409 



tricolor 408 



Hemiphadusa 361, 366, 517 



Hemipogonius subopacus 733 



Hibiscus moscheulos, 643, 643, 650, 

 654, 655, 063 



Hieracium gronovii 664 



scabrum 669 



Hierococcyx fugax 677 



Hippiscus corallipes 730, 731 



pumilis 721 



zapotecus 731 



Hirasea 30 



acutissima 30 



biconcava 30 



euthcca 30 




834 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec. 



Hirasea h vpolia 30 



mirabllis 30, 31 



nesiotica 30 



fiperculina 30 



sinuosa 30 



Hirundo javanica 681 



longipennis 677 



gutluralis 6S1 



rustica gi^^turalis 681 



Holospira roemeri 511 



Homoeogamiasiibdiapliaiia. . . . 717 

 Hudsonia tomentosa, 644-648, 658. 



663 



Hubua orientalis 673 



orientalis sumatraiia 673 



Hyalina (Conulus)acutangula. 238 



? electrina 239 



(ConuUis) incerta 235 



(Conulus) hibilis 234 



(Pseudohyalina) luinus- 



cula 240 



•? nilida 336 



(Conulus) pbyllophila. . . . 237 



(Microcystis) rejecia 236 



(ConuUis) stenogyra 236 



(Conulus) teneia." 234 



Hydra 195, 201, 215 



Hydrocielila frontalis 684 



ruticapilla 6S4 



velata 684 



Hydrocolyle umbellata 655 



Hylobates hoolock 159 



lar 159 



Hyopsodus 253 



Hypancistrocerus 53, 54 



Hypericum adpressum 668 



niutilum 663 



Hypolylus 773 



Hypsirbiua doriae 180 



enhvdris 180 



Hyrax.." 248, 254 



Idotea 295 



hectica 345 



Hex glabra 647, 667 



opaca, 647, 653, 655, 658, 659, 

 662 



Indri 248 



lone 345 



Iponijea purpurea 663 



Irena criniger 682 



Iris versicolor 660, 666 



Isnardiii palustris 663 



Iva frutescens 664 



Ixos (Trichixos) pb:cocephalus 683 



.lapalura nigrilabris 177 



polyconata 184 



.Tulus ...". 4, 320 



Juncus bufonius 660 



Juncus canadensis 660 



dichotomus 660 



gerardi 660 



scirpoides 660 



sp 646, 647 



tenuis 660 



Juniperus communis. .463, 498, 499 



nana 463, 498 



oxycedrus 498 



sabina 463 



Tirginiaua, 498, 499, 647, 648, 

 653, 655, 658. 6.59 



K«llia verlicellata 668 



Kaliella ogasawarana 31 



Kalmia augHstifolia 647 



Ketupa ketupa 673 



Kneiffla pumila 663 



Kosteletzkya virginica, 642, 643, 



662 



Kuhnia eupatorioides 664 



Lachesis tlavoviridis 185 



sumatranus 182 



wagleri 181 



Lacinaria cylindracea 664 



Lactista boscanus 721 



pellepidus 721 



Lactuca scariola 669 



Lagenella 791 



Lagisca multisetosa 267 



^rarispina 268, 269 



Lalage culminata 682 



domiuica 682 



Larainaria 277 



Lamprocorax cbalybea 690 



Lanius coronatus 691 



leucorhynchus 6SS 



musicus 6Si 



superciliosus 687 



tigrinus 688 



xantliogaster 6Sil 



Laodice. 753 



Lazaria 690 



californica 707 



Lazariella 699 



Lechea niaritiina 663 



minor v;ir. maritima 663 



racemulosa 668 



Lcmna minor 666 



Lemur albifrons 250 



gracilis 137 



rufipes 252 



lardigradus 137, 139 



volans 135, 252 



Le])idiuru virginicum 667 



Leittilon canadensc 664 



Liatris graiuinifolia 684 



Libocecirus dccurrens 499 



Ligia 291, 295, 326, 347 




1902.] 



NATUKAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



835 



Limas varians 234 



Limnffia 513 



Limonium carolinianum, G54, 056, 



663 



Limulns 189 



Linaria canadensis 603, 668 



liuaria 643 



vulgaris 043 



Liuum peienne 36 



virginianum 663 



Liriope 753, 773 



Litaneutra minor 718 



Lithobius 4, 39, 320 



bipunt-tatus 42 



monticola 42 



multideutatus 43 



perinuudus 42 



ruijosus 42 



xanti 39, 42 



Lobelia cardinalis 35, 36 



fulgens 36 



syphilitica 35, 36 



Lobostoma IGO, 163 



cinnamomeum 161, 165 



megalophylla 161 



Lobostomiuai ... 101 



Locusta japonica 030 



Lucustiua; 035, 723 



Loiiculus galgulus 673 



Loris 137, 138, 13S 



gracilis 137, 138, 245 



tardigradus 138, 250 



Loxia niaja 6S9 



Luchupliredusa 380 



Ludwigia palustris 663 



Lumbriconereis sp 274 i 



Lycoperdon turneri 049, 605 



Lycopodiuiu carolinianum, 047, 605 



Lycopus virginicus 663 



Lycosa 536 



arenicola 537, 550 



babingtoni 559, 561 



baltimoriana 538, 501 



carolineusis. .535, 537, 556, 559 

 (Tarentula) Carolineusis. . 556 



cbaronoides 537, 544 



cinerea 537, 555 



communis 663 



domit'ex 550 



erratica 562, 564 



froudicola.. . .588, 550, 565, 568 



funerea 53S 



balodroma 555 



inhonesta 538, 557, 559 



kochi 566 



kochii 565, 666, 568 



lenta 562, 564 



lepida 538, 562 



Lycosa lynx 555 



maritima 665, 556 



(Tarentula) modesta 544 



nidicola 538, 559, 561 



nidifex 550 



nigra 536, 538, 540 



uigraurata 538, 564 



ocreata 540, .543, 548 



ocreata pulchra. .537. 540, 547 

 punctulata. . .537, 553, 553, 555 



purcelli 538, 565, 566, 568 



relucens 537, 542 



scutulata 587, 553 



sepulchralis 537, 543, 546 



stonei 537, 546 



sublata 536, 539 



tigrina 557, 559 



verismiilis. ...... .537, 543, 548 



vulpina 557, 559 



Lycosidse 534, 535 



Lygosoma nitens 178 



pellopleurum 185 



Mabuia multifasclata 177 



rudis 178 



rugifera 177 



Macacus cynomolgus 158 



Macrobiotus 189 



Macronus ptilosus 685 



Macropisthodon flaviceps 694 



rhodomelas 694 



Macropteryx comata 677 



lougipeuuis 677 



Macroscelides 249 



Macucus cynomolgus 143 



Mainatus javensis 690 



Malacopteron erythrote 680 



IVIandariua exoptata var. ob- 



tusa 29 



mandarina var. hahaji- 



mana 29 



ruscheubergeriana 35 



Manis javanica 143 



Mauticioe 718 



Martes americana var. abieti- 



noides ^55 



Mecostethus magister 631 



Megacardita 699 



Megalophiedusa 300 



Megalophrys montaua 095 



Meibomia canesceus 062 



paniculatum 662 



Megaderma 349 



Meiglyptes grammithorax .... 680 



tukki 080 



Melienis loveni 374 



Melamspora (Calj'ptospora) 



Gceppertiaua 474 



Melania ambidextra 130 




836 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



Melania biwa; 120 



boninensis 120, 121 



caucellata 120 



decussata 120 



hakodadiensis 121 



hidacliiensis 120 



japonica 120 



libertina 119, 120, 121 



liberima var. latifusus. . . . 120 



libertina var. plicosa 120 



multigranosa 119, 120 



niponica 119 



plicosa 120 



reiniaua 119, 120 



reiniana var hidachiensis . 119 



retifera 121 



tenuisulcata 120 



Melanoplus altitudinum 724 



atlanis 724 



bivittatus 724 



corpulentus 724 



femur-rubrum 724 



lakinus 724 



sapellanus 724 



thomasi 724 



Melia azedarach 122 



MeliacesE 122, 123 



Melissodes montana 728 



Meminna indica 131 



Mentha spicata (iOS 



viridis 668 



Merops amicta 676 



philippinus 076 



siimatranus 076 



Jlesobucco du vauceli 679 



Mestobregma asiierum 722 



Mierohierax friugillarius 672 



^[icroliyla ornata 186 



undulata 186 



Micrommala carolinensis 55^ 



serrata 58^ 



undata 58^ 



Micropternus brachyurus 680 



phtEocops 680 



Miorostomum 195 



Microtursus imniaculatus 683 



melanoleiicus 683 



Milneria 698, 701, 712 



minima 712 



Miodon 098, 700 



prolongatus 700 



Miogrvllus lineatus 727 



Mitchellia repens 654, 604, 669 



Mixornis erythroptera 685 



gularis 685 



Mdlge pvrrhogasler ensicauda. 186 

 Mollugo'verticillata. .643, 644, G61, 



067 



Molossus nigricans 395, 397 



pretiosus 395, 396, 397 



rufus 395, J9G, 397 



Monarda punctata 063 



Mouocj'stis ascidiae 7 



sipunculi 5 



Monophylluscubanus ...410, 411 



luciffi 411 



plethodon 411 



redmani 410 



Mormoops 160, 161, 162 



hlainvillii./6(?-162. 165-108, 172 



blainvillii cinuamomea . . 162, 



l(i3, 165, 172 



intermedia 161, 170, 172 



intermedius 403 



megalophylla ...161, 162, 165, 

 160, 160, 172, 403 

 megalophylla intermedia, 



162, 109, 170 

 megalophylla senicula.lC2, 172 

 tumidiceps 403 



Mormopes 161 



Mormops 160, 161 



blainvillii 163. 165, 166 



megalophylla, IGG, 167, 169, 170 



Morus rubra 653, 667 



Jtosclius fulviventer 132 



iavanicus 128, 131, 132 



kanchil 128, 180 



raennina 131 



napu 1S7, 131 



pelandoc 132 



stanleyanus 131 



Motacilla boarula melanope . . 688 



gularis 685 



Melanope 688 



oli vacea 687 



Munia leucogastroides 689 



maja 689 



nisoria 689 



punctulata nisoria 689 



Mus ale.xandrinus 132 



flrmus 148, 155, 156 



fremens 143, 154, 155 



integer 155, 156 



lingensis 143, 154 



niiilleri 156 



sp 154 



surifer 154 



vociferans 155 



MuBcicapa cantatri.v. . . : 681 



elegans 681 



Muscipeta incei 681 



Mustela abietinoides, 451, 453, 454, 



460 



actuosa 448-451, 454, 456 



americana 443-460 




1902.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



837 



Mustela americana americana. 



445, 446 



americana abietinoides . . . 444, 



451 



americana brumalis . .444, 448, 



451 



americana actuosa . . .444, 450, 



453, 456 



americana typi«us . . .444. 450, 



451, 457, 458 



americanus m 



strata 444, 452, 454, 455 



brumalis 447-450, 453. 454 



caurina. .444, 448, 453, 4o5-4(i0 



caurina origeues, 444, 453. 454, 



456, 458, 459 



foina 444, 446, 447, 449 



huro JtJfJf 



leucopus JfJfJi. 



martes 444, 446, 447, 457 



vulpina Jt^tk 



zibellina ... .444, 446, 447, 448, 

 457, 458 



Mygnimia ustulata 733 



Myotis lucifugus 391, 392 



Myrica cerifera . .644-647, 650, 652, 

 655, 658, 660 



Mytilicardia 69c? 



Mytilicardita 69S 



Nabalus albus 664 



Naia naia 181 



Naunosciurus exilis 154 



melanotis 153, 154 



pulclier 153, 154 



wliitebeadi 153 



Napotbera umbratilis 686 



Narcomedusfe 766 



Natalus major 398, 399 



mexicaniis 399, 400, 403 



stramiueus. ..398, 399, 400, 403 



Nectarinia basseltii 6SS 



Neocardia 700 



angulata 700 



Nereis pelagica 274 



zonata 274 



Nesopupa dedecora 31 



Nicolea arctica 276 



Noctilionina 161 



Nomada formula 728 



modesta 739 



Northia concbylega . .274, 276, 277 



Notbarctus 253 



Notogonia isqualis 731 



nigripenuis 731 



nigripennis occidentalis. . . 731 



Nyctibius 677 



Nycticebus 130, 138 



bengalensis 1^1 



Nycticebus cinereus HI 



coucang 137, 138, 140 



coucaug billeri 139 



coucang javanicus. . . .1.39, 140 

 coucang malaianus. . .139, 141 



coucang natunie 139, 140 



javanicus IW 



menageusis 138 



tardigradus 137, HO 



Nyctinomops 393 



afflnis 393 



aurispinosus 393 



depressus 393 



femorosaccus 393, 394 



laticaudatus 393-395 



macrotis 393 



orthotis 393 



yucatanicus 393-395 



Nyctinomus 393 



antillularum 398 



babamcnsis 641 



brasiliensis 398, 641 



cynocepbalus 641 



eiirops 393, 394, 395 



megalotis 393 



Nyctioi'uis 677 



Nyctornis 677 



Nyssa sylvatica 653 



Oakesia sessilifolia 660 



Obitodes forbesii 746 



Ocyale 536, 584 



undata 584 



Ocypterus leucogaster dSS 



Odoatophotopsis 738 



brevicornis 741 



clandestinus 740 



exogyrus 738 



mellicausus 741 



succineus 741 



Odynerus abdominalis . . . .48, 68 

 (Hypaucistrocerus) ad- 

 vena 53, 54 



(Stenaucistrocerus) api- 



cipennis 44, 67 



(Stenaucistrocerus) area- 



tus 47, 68 



(Stenaucistrocerus) atri- 



pes 51, 69 



brevithorax 63 



(Odynerus) chapadae. .64. 69 

 (Ancistrocerus?) conjunc- 



tus 52, 69 



cordatus 57, 68 



(Odynerus) corumboe, 63, 69 



coxalis 54, 68 



(Stenancistrocerus) con vo- 

 lutus 45, 67 




838 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEilY OF 



[Dec, 



Odynerus (Stenancistrocerus) 



dentifiirmis 48, 68 



dorsonotatus 58, 68 



(Ancistrocerus) fulvima- 



culus 49, 68 



(Stenodynenis) griseus 



66, 69 



Herbertii 56, 69 



inusitatus 61, 69 



longicornis 59, 69 



nasidens 63 



priBcox 63 



(Hypancistrocerus) re- 



flexus 53, 69 



relativus 63, 69 



(Ancistrocerus) nifimacu- 



lus 50, 68 



rufobasilaris T36 



rufosuffusus 62, 69 



(Odynerus) sericeus. . .65, 69 

 (Stenodvnerus) serratus 



65, 69 



striatus 60, 69 



(Stenodynerus) subapica- 



lis 67, 69 



(Stenancistrocerus) sutfu- 



sus 46, 67 



(Ecanthina; 727 



CEcanthus angustipennis 737 



niveus 737 



sp 727 



fEdaleus infernalis 634 



nigrofasciatus 632 



(Kdipocliute 632, 720 



CEnothera biennis 663, 668 



humifusa 652 



piimila 663 



Olindias 782, 788 



Omplialina andrewste 420, 430 



andrcwsjE montiva5a.419, 420 



fuliginosa 418, 420, 429 



fuliginosa polita 417, 420 



kopnoides 420 



laevigata 420, 429 



loevlgata latior 417, 420 



perlsevis 417, 420 



rugeli 417-420, 430 



suiiplana 418, 420, 429 



Onagra biennis 668 



Oniscus, 297, 300, 301, 304, 326, 346, 



350 



asellus. .286, 290, 292, 295, 302, 



313, 316. 320, 341 



murarius 298, 340, 342 



Onychoelifeta windlei 84 



dpeia obscura 718 



Opisthemega crassipes .;/ 



postica }l 



Opisthemega spinicauda 4Jl 



Opuntia opuntia 655, 663, 668 



vulgaris 663, 668 



Oriolus maculatus 689 



xanthonotus 689 



Orpluilella salina 719 



Ortliotomus atrigularis 687 



cineraceus 687 



Osmorrhiza sp 663 



Osmotreron fulvicollis 672 



vernans 672 



Oxya liyla 635 



velox 635, 636 



vicina 635 



Oxycoccus maorocarpus 647 



Oxygrapliis cymbularia 661 



Oxyopes 590 



saitieus 590 



Oxyopidse 590 



Oxyopus astutus 590 



" gracilis 590 



Pachytylus cinerascens 634 



migratorius 634 



PaliBoruis longicauda 673 



Paludina abbreviata 116, 216 



histrica 116, IIS 



ingallsiana 115, IIS 



iaponica 116 



l*ta 116, 117 



nialleata 116, lie 



nitens 116, US 



oxytropis 115, 117 



oxytropus var. japonica . . 117 

 oxytropus var. sclateri . . . 117 



pyramidata 115 



sclateri 118 



stelmaphora IIG 



Panicum crus-galli 060 



crus-galli var. liispidum 



643, 644 



dichotomuin 6l)C 



proliferum 660 



sanguiuale 660 



virgatum, 645, 646, 647, 654, (160 



Pantntheria 248, 253 



Parapleurus alliaceus 029 



fastigiatus 629, 630 



Paratettix toltecus 718 



Pardosa 536, 569 



albopatella 571 



ininiwa 569, 571 



nigra 5S8 



nigropalpis. .569, 572, 573, 574 



pallida 574 



scita 569,573 



solivaga 569, 574 



ParthenocissHS ({ulDquefolia. . 662 




1902.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



839 



Partheiiocissus (Ampelopsis) 



quinquefolia 653 



Pastor jalla 690 



Pedinaspis planatus 735 



Pelargopsis burmauica 674 



oapensis 674, 075 



floresiana 674 



fraseri 675 



gurial 674 



javana 074, 675 



leucocephala 674 



malaccensis 674 



Pelophilus siaensis 67S 



Pt'titastomum 189 



Perichieta bermudensis ... .80, 83 



dyeri 83 



taprobante 83 



Pericrocotus xantliogaster .... 682 



Peronia tongana 239 



Petaurus. . .' 243, 253 



Petrodromus 248 



Petromyzon brauchialis. . . .85, 106 



dorsatus 85 



maiiuus 100 



plaueri 85, 90 



Peziza (Dasyscypha) Will- 



kommii 475 



(Helotium) Willkommii. . 474 



Pezotettix Mikado 6S7 



Phsdusa 523 



PhiEopicus grammithorax .... 6S0 



Phasianus argus 671 



gallus 67S 



Phas'midie 718 



Plieietima hawayana SO 



rodericensis 83 



schmardse 83 



Plulanthus anua 755 



cleoiuiB 733 



crabrouifovinis 733 



multimaculatiis 733 



pacificus 733 



Philomyeus bilineatus 235, 239 



carolinensis 421, 437 



coiifusus 239 



lieiiipliilli. . . .418, 419, 421, 438 



wetherbyi 418, 419, 421 



Philoscia vittata 286 



Phoeniophoeus erythrognatbus. 67S 



Phceuicopliaus elongatus 67S 



Javanicus 67S 



Pholoii miuuta 274 



Pbotopsis albicincta 737 



liugulatus 737 



uuicolor 737 



Phry notettix 595 



taosanus 595, 597 



tsbivavensis.595, 596, 597, 723 



Phiynotetlix verruculatus.595, 



Phj'llodoce citriaa 



greenlandica 



mucosa 



Pbyllopneuste borealis 



Phylloruis C3'anopogon 



ieterocephalus 



media 



Pliyllostomatidce 



Physa 513, 



ancillai'ia 



gyriaa 514, 515, 



huraerosa 513 



lordi 515, 



mexicaua 



rhomboidea 514, 515, 



solida 



tabulata 



virgata 514, 



Phytolaca decandia 652, 



Picnonotus simplex 



Pious bracliyurus 



javanensis 



malaccensis 



molucceusis 



tukki 



validus 



Pinus rigida 647, 648, 658, 



Pipestrellus 



Pipistiellus cinnamomeus .... 



subflavus 390, 



tenuis 



Pirata 536, 



elegans 575, 579, 



exigua 



exiguus 



Uumicolus 575, 



insularis 



liber 575, 578, 



luarxi 575, 



minutus 



nigromaculatus. .575, 579, 



piratica 



piraticus 



procuisus 575, 



Pirus americaua 



arbutifolia 500, 



communis 600, 



coronaria 



malus 500, 



Pisidium 



Pitta boschii 



Planorbls 



Plautago major 



Platurus laticaudatus 



Platylophus coronatus 



Platysma myoides 



Platysmurus leucopteras 



596 

 274 

 274 

 274 

 688 

 6S2 

 6S2 

 6S2 

 161 

 514 

 513 

 516 

 -515 

 516 

 514 

 516 

 514 

 513 

 516 

 667 

 6S3 

 6S0 

 6S0 

 679 

 679 

 680 

 680 

 659 

 242 

 390 

 391 

 136 

 575 

 581 

 578 

 578 

 .577 

 579 

 581 

 583 

 577 

 582 

 57S 

 .583 

 583 

 501 

 .501 

 501 

 501 

 , 501 

 513 

 6S1 

 513 

 664 

 694 

 691 

 243 

 691 




840 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



Plectotio])is vulvivaga 



Pleurodonte bayamensis 



marginella rostrata 



Pleuromeris G98, 



Ploceus atiigula 



megarhynchus 



Pluchea camphorata 651, 



Podisma dairisama 



mikado 



primnoa 



Podisoma EUisii 



Pogonia ophioglossoides . .047, 

 Polydontophis gemiuatus . . . . 



Polygala cruciata 



Polvgonatnni commutatum. . . 



Polygonella articulata 



Polygonum acre 



incarnatum 



persicaria 



ramossissimum 



Polygvia albolabris . .420, 424, 



albolabris major 



altispira .... ."418-420. 427, 



andrewsfc.. .415, 417-420, 



andrewsse altivaga .. .420, 



andrewsa; intermedia .... 



425, 

 andrewsffi normalis. . .420, 



appressa perigrapta ..420, 

 ciiilboweensis. . . .417, 420, 



christvi 417, 



clarki'i 419, 



clausa 418, 420, 



depilata 417, 420, 



cdwardsi 



edwardsi maguifumosa . . . 



exolcta 420, 424, 



ferrissii 419, 



I'rauduleuta 420, 



hirsuta 420, 427, 



liirsufa altispira 



!ii?-.«iuta piliila 



iiidianonim 



indianonim liodcrma 



intlecta 418, 420, 



magnil'umosa 



monodon cincta. .417, 420, 



normalis 



Iialliata 420, 



lillula 417, 420 



profunda 418, 420, 



rocuirri 



rugeli 420, 



sayii 418, 420, 



239 

 748 

 748 

 700 

 689 

 089 

 004 

 036 

 037 

 037 

 462 

 006 

 178 

 602 

 660 

 660 

 661 

 661 

 661 

 661 

 061 

 427 

 420 

 428 

 42.5, 

 420 

 420, 

 427 

 420, 

 420 

 425, 

 426 

 424 

 424 

 420 

 420 

 427 

 428 

 420 

 420 

 426 

 420 

 421 

 428 

 427 

 4CS 

 511 

 511 

 423 

 428 

 429 

 417 

 424 

 428 

 423 

 511 

 423 

 424 



Polygyra steuotrema 420, 427 



stenotrema nuda ■. . . 417 



subpalliata..410, 418, 420, 423 



texasensis 511 



texasiana 511 



thyroides 420, 427 



tridentata...410, 420,421, 422 



tridentata var. complanta . 422 



tridentata tennesseensis. . 420, 



422, 423 



-n-heatlcyi 418, 420, 427 



Polynoa (Ilarmolhoe) island- 



"ica 272 



Polypetades viridis 1S5 



Polyporus versicolor 065 



Polytriebum commune 665 



Pomatiopsis liirasei 27 



laiiidaria 441 



Poutodrilus arena; 82 



Porcellia 295, 300, 305, 350 



laivis 347 



scaber. .286, 312. 314. 327, 329, 



330, 331, 338, 339, 347 



spinicornis . .286, 296, 328, 347 



Porospora gigantea 18 



Portulaea oleracea 651 , 601 



Portulacca oleracea 607 



Prenantbcs alba 664 



Prinia olivacea 687 



Pristiloma arctica 593 



idahoense 593 



lansingi 593 



Promops 393 



aflSnis 393 



depressus 393 



Propithecus 243 



diadema 252 



Prunus maritima . . . .644, 048, 653, 

 656, 658, 002 



serotina 653, 002 



virpiniana 058, 602 



Psammodvnastes pictus 182 



pvilvcnilentus 180, 181, 694 



Pscudonenia 528 



Ptcudopliyllus brullei 21 



harrisoni 21 



neriifolius 21 



Psiltacus galguhis 673 



longicaudus S73 



Psitlinus incertiis 073 



Psoltrssa ferruginea. . ._. 719 



maculipcnnis 719 



Pteromeris 698 



Pteroinys 243, 244, 253 



Ptcronolus 161 



Pteropus 242-254 



frngivorous 244 



litlircheihis 756 




1902.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



841 



Pteropus vampyrus 136, 143 



Ptilimnium capillaceum 603 



Ptychoptera coiitaminata 285 



Punctum blaudianum 417, 421 



py gmieuiii 421 



Pupa.".". 513 



Pupoide.s ,513 



Putorius nudipes 130 



Pycnanthemum Torrevi 608 



Pycuonotu.s analis . . . ' 683 



plumosus 083 



simplex 683 



Pyramidula 513 



alternata 416, 421, 438-440 



alternata costata 417, 421 



alternata i'ergusoni? 421 



alternata mordax, 417, 421, 438, 

 439, 440 



bryanti 416, 421, 440, 441 



fergusoui 438 



pauper 234 



perspectiva 421, 440, 441 



striatella 51 1 



strigosa liuacliucana 511 



Pyrgomorphinfe 035 



Pyrotrogon diardi neglcctus . . 077 



duvauceli 677 



Pyrus arbutifolia 663 



mains 667 



Python reticulatus 178 



Quercus 283 



alba 661, 606 



digitata 001 



fakata 661 



lieterophylla 33, 34 



ilicifolia.' 661 



lyrata 653 



minor 647 



nana 661 



palustris 33, 34 



palnstris-irabricaria 33 



pliellos 33, 653 



tiuctoria 661 



velutina 601 



Rallus phceuicnrus 071 



Rana clialconota 694 



erythrsea 182, 694 



everetti 182 



glandulosa 182 



gracilis ISo 



macrodon 182 



tigrina 183, 694 



Ranunculus cymbalaria 061 



Ratnla affinis 134, 149, 1.50 



bicolor 147, 148, 149, 150 



bicolor hypoleuca 134 



hypoleuca 149, 151 



nielanopepla 148, 150 



Ratufa uotabilis 143, 150, 151 



palliata 147, 149 



pyrsonota 150 



Reinia 524, 538 



Reuilla 757 



Rhacophorus maculatus 183 



viridis 185 



Rhinociclila mitrata 685 



Rhiuomyias jiectoralis 686 



Rhinopoma 249 



Rliinorlhia chlorophiBa 678 



Rhinosciurus laticadatus. .143, 154 



Rhopodvtes elongatus 678 



Rhus co"palliua 643, 650, 663 



glabra 655 



radicaus 644, 648, 650, 654, 655, 

 662 



Rhyncocyon 246, 248, 249 



Rhyuomyias umbratilis. . .686. 687 



umbratilis richmoudi 686 



Rhytidoceros undulatus 676 



Ra'stelia aurantiaca 500 



botryapites 501 



caucelhxta 462, 500 



cornuta 500 



lacerata 501 



nidus 501 



pyrata 501 



trausfonnans 500 



Rosa Carolina 662 



Rubigula dispar 684 



Rubus canadensis 662 



villosus 667 



Rudbeckia hirta 669 



Rumex acetosella 649, 661 



crispus 661 



patientia 667 



verticillatus 667 



Ruppia maritima 650, 660 



Rusa unicolor equinus 132 



Sabbatia stellaris 663 



Sagiua decumbens 661 



Sagitta 189 



Salicornia ambigua 661 



Bigelovii 654, 655, 601 



herbacea 651, 654, 655, 661 



mucronata 661 



Salsola kali 652, 658, 661 



Sambucus canadensis 664 



Samolis floribundus . . 603 



valerandi 663 



Sassafras sassafras ...648, 655, 663 



Satsuma japonica 236 



Saxicava 706 



Scalaricardita ~oo 



Scalibregma inflatum var. core- 



thura 375 



Schneideria 13 




842 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



Scioue lobata 370 



Scirpus araeiicanus 660 



debilis 643, 645. 646 



lacustiis 649, 651 



maritimus 660 



pungeus 660 



sylv'aticus 646, 006 



Sciurus afflnis 13^ 



albiceps 151 



hiimei 153 



hypoleucos 134, 1^9 



insignis ISS 



melanops 151 



iiotatus 143 



prevostii 151 



prevostii bangkanus 133 



prevostii harrisoni 132 



prevostii raftlesii 133 



Rafflesii 133 



tenuis 143, 151 



vittatus 133, 151 



Scolia dubia 35 



Scyphomcdusae 766 



Sedum sjk ctabile 35 



Semnopithecus femoralis 159 



maurus 141, 143, 158. 159 



melaloplios 141 



mitratus 141 



swnatrauus 159 



Sericocarpiis asteroides 664 



con vzoides 664 



Serpula'sp 370 



Setaria glauca 600 



Siamanga 143 



Sicyos aiigulatus 004 



Sieglingia purpurea 043, 652 



Silene slellata 661 



Simia inaura i^/ 



mclaloi>lios 141 



syndactyla l.',S 



Siniotes octoliueatus 180 



Sipliia cantatrix 681 



Smilax glauca 660 



rotuudifolia 054, 660 



Solanuiu dulcamara 063 



nigrum 663, 068 



Solidago odora 604 



puberula 605, 669 



seinpervireas.044-648, 653, 005 



tenuifolia 040, 065 



tfuuifolius 609 



Sonchus oleraceus 665 



Sonorella granulatissima 511 



rowelli 511 



Sorbu> aria 500 



aucuparia 500 



Spartina cynosuroides 660 



patens 652-655 



Spartina polystachya 643 



striata . ." ". . .653, 654, 655 



Spbairium 513 



magnum 513 



Spliieroma 345 



Spha;rophtbalraa harpalyce. . . 743 



pacifica 743 



Spbecodes mandibularis 729 



Sphyradium edentulum 431 



Spilomena foxii 731 



Spirautlies cernua 000 



Spirorbis borealis 277 



granulatus 276 



spirillum 277 



verruca 377 



vitreus 377 



Statice limonium 663 



Stenanima fiilvum piceum. 599-625 



Stenobotlirus latipenuis GSl 



Stenoderma lucia; 407, 408 



montserratense 407, 408 



nichoUsi 407, 408 



Stenophora juli 4, 8, 12, 14 



Stenopbyllus capillaris 666 



Stenops." , 1S8 



Stenotrema birsutum 427 



Stcreopbtedusa. ..379-381, 519, 520 



Slicbospora 18 



Sligmus fulvipes 731 



Stirapleura mescalero 719 



pusilla 719 



tenuicarina 719 



Strix ketupa 67S 



sumatrana 673 



Strobilops labyrinthica stre- 



beli 417, 430, 429 



Strophostyles angulosa 662 



holvola 651, 652, 662 



]ieduiioularis 607 



umbcllata 667 



Sturnopaslor jalla 690 



Suieda linearis 661 



Succinea 513 



lauta 234, 240 



liiteola 511 



obliqua 441 



ovalis 418. 419, 421, 441 



|)Utris 240 



Surniculiis lugubris 677 



Sus barbatus 147 



longirostris 147 



oi ".....147, 147 



vittatus 127, 143, 147 



Symmorphus 52 



Sytnphalaugus 142 



syndactylus 142 



Syntherisma sanguinalis 660 



Taclivdromus sexlinealU9.177, 693 




1902.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



843 



Tachydromus smaragdinus 184 



Taphozoi 161 



Tardigradiis 137, 138 



coucaug 1^1 



Tarentula S44 



baltimoriana 561 



inhonesta 557 



kochii 566 



lepida 562 



tigrina 557 



Taxodium 461 



Tecoma radicans 653, 668 



Terpsiphone incei 681 



Terrapene Carolina 386, 387 



eurypygia 385 



Testudo 383 



atascosiE 383 



hexagonata 384 



laticaudata 384 



polyphemus 384, 385 



Tetrachrysis noitoni 736 



Tetraleurodes 283 



Tettigidea lateralis 718 



Tettigina' 629 



TettigonidiE 725 



Tettixjaponicus 629 



Teucrium canadense 663 



Tlieatops 39 



californiensis 41 



crassipes 41 



posticus 41 



spinicaiuUis 41 



Tliecalia 701 



concamerata 701 



Thecali:u» 608, 701 



Thelepus circiunatus 270 



Thelephora terrestris 649, 665 



Thriponax javanensis 680 



Tiga jaTanensis 680 



Timalia erythroptera GS5 



mitrata 6S5 



Tissa marina 661 



Tomichia japonica 27 



Tomitherium 253 



Toria Nipalensis 673 



Toxaspis (Terrapene) anguil- 



lulata ". . . . 385 



Trachelomonas 791-795 



minor 794 



spiculifera 793, 794 



spinosa 794 



vermiculosa 793, 794 



vestita 793, 794 



Trachomedusoe 751 



Trachvcomus ochroceplialus. . 683 



Traguhis 128 



bunguranensis 146, 147 



fulviventer 131, 133 



Tragulns fuscatus 131 



javanicus 128-132, 143 



kanchil 128, 131 



malacceusis 132 



meminna 128, 130, 131 



ruimenoides 132 



napu 127-130, 143-145 



nigricans 132 



nigricollis 145, 146 



pelandoc....l29, 130, 131, 132 

 pretiosus ...143, 144. 145, 146 



stanleyanus 128,130, 131 



Trerou griseicapilla 672 



nipalensis 672 



Trialeurodes 283 



Trichastoma buttikoferi ..685, 686 



celebense 685 



dicbotomus 663 



pyrrbogenys 686 



rostratum 686 



Tricholestes criniger 683 



Tricuspis purpurea 643 



Tricntalis aniericana ._ 668 



Trifolium arvense .' 662 



bybriduui 662 



Trilopbidia annulata japonica . 634 

 Trimerotropis melanoptera.... . 722 



vinculata 722 



Tringa bypoleucos 671 



Trionyx cartilagineus 693 



subplanus 176, 693 



Trochilus colubris 35 



Trocbosa 536, 544 



cinerea 555, 556 



Trogon diardii neglectus 677 



duvauceli 677 



Tropidolophus formosus 721 



Tropidonotus cbrj'sargus 694 



triauguligerus 178, 694 



Tropidophorus brookii 178 



Truxalins 629 



Tupaia 245, 246, 248, 249 



terruginea 158 



malaccana 143, 157 



nana 251 



phseura 157, 158 



tana 134, 143 



Turdus analis 6S3 



cbalybeus 690 



dispar 684 



dominicus 682 



mindanensis 684 



oclirocepbalus 683 



strigatus 690 



terat GS2 



Turtur tigrinus 672 



turtuf 673 



Typba angustifolia 660, 666 




844 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec. 



Typha latifolia G46, 660 



Tyrannophfedusa, 366, 375, 377, 

 378, 380 



Udeopsylla vierecki 725 



Urococc}-x erythroguathus. . . . 678 

 Urolonciia leucogastra. . . .688, 689 



Ustilago maydis 494 



Uvularia sessihfolia 660 



Vaccinium corymbosum, 647, 648, 



663 



Vallisneria spiralis 650 



Yallonia 513 



Vampyrops dorsalis 405 



fumosus 405 



infuscus 405, 406 



recifinus 406 



vittatus 406 



zarhinus 406 



Varanus dumerili 177 



heterophilis 177 



salvator 177, 693 



Venerieaidia 697-699, 705 



(Cyclocardia) alaskana. 710, 

 711, 715 

 (Cyclocardia) armilla, 704,713 

 (C^'clocardia) barbarensis 708 

 borealis, 704, 706, 710. 714, 715 

 borealis var. novauglia'. . . 704 

 (Cyclocardia) borealis. .. . 703 



cninpressa 704 



(Cyclocardia) compressa.. 708 



crassicostata 707 



Cuvieri 708 



(Cvclocardia) Gouldii.709,714 



griiiiulata 703, 706 



imbricata 699 



incisa 711 



(Cyclocardia) incisa. .710, 714 



(Cjxlocardia) moniliata, 705, 



713 



(Cyclocardia) mouilicosta. 709 



novangliifi 714 



obliqua 70o 



(Pteromeris) perplana. . . . 705 



plaiiicosta 711 



pnicera 708 



(Cvclocardia) procera.... 704 

 (>fiodon) prolongatus .... 711 



(Cyclocardia) rudis 711 



(Cyclocardia) spurca 708 



(Cyclocardia) stearnsii, 709, 



714 



(Plcuronicris) tridentata.. 705 



(Cyclocardia) veUuina. ... 708 



ventricosa 714, 71^ 



CCvcloCiirdia) ventricosa, 709, 



710 



VeneridsE 697 



Yenerupis 701 



Venus pygmsa 700 



Verbena hastata G63 



Vertigo bollesiana 420 



Vespa occidentalis 735 



Vespertilio soriciuus 37 



tenuis 13G 



vampyrus 136 



Viburnum dentatum 664 



Vitis aestivalis 653, 662 



labriisca 653, 662 



Vitrea approxima 420, 431, 432 



carolinensis 418, 420, 430 



carolinensis wetherbvi, 420, 



430 



clingmani, 414, 419, 420, 431, 



432, 433 



ferrea 420 



hammonis... .418, 420, 431-433 



indentata 420, 430, 511 



pentadelphia 419 



petrophila 419 



petrophila pentadelphia, 420, 

 432 



rhoadsi 420, 432 



sculptilis.. 418. 420, 431 



vanattai 430, 432. 433 



wheatleyi 420, 432 



wheatleyi clingmani 451 



Vitriuizonites latissimus, 418-420, 



430 



latissimus uvidermis 420 



uvividermis 419 



Viverra tanglunga 143, 156 



Vivipara sclateri 116 



Viviparidie 115 



Viviparus histricns 118 



japonicus 117, 118 



japonicus var. iwakawa. . . 117 



malleatus 116, 117 



sclateri 118 



stelmaphora 116, 117 



Walsuria piscidia 122 



Wilbiughbiua scandens 6.55 



Xanthium canadense 6.52 



stnimarium 665 



Xantliuhtma liieuiaccphala. . . . 679 



Xenelapliis hexa^onotus 179 



Xenopeltis unicolor 178 



Xy locarpus 122, 123 



granatum 125 



Xylocopa virginica. ." 35 



Xylolepes vaTidus 680 



Yiingipicus moluccensis 679 



ZacUrysia iiroboscidea 748 



Zaiuenis korros 694 



Zamia 749 



Zanclostonuis javanicus 678 




1902.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



845 



Zaocys carinatus 694 



Zaptyx 373, 381 



Zonites carolinensis JfSO 



lasmodon var ''. ^35 



lawi ifSo 



placentula 438 



placentulus ^55 



wheatleyi \si 



Zonitoides 513 



arboreus 420, 433 



elliottii 420, 433 



milium 420 



minusculus 420 



nitidus 431 



patuloides 417, 420 



Zostera marina 650, 660 




846 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



GENERAL INDEX, 



1902. 



Additions to tlie Jluseum, 814. 



iinderson, Malcolm P., and .Joseph 

 Grinuell. Birds of the Seskij'ou 

 Mountains, California. A prob- 

 lem in distribution, 627, (volume 

 for 1903). 



Ashhurst, Samuel K., announce- 

 ment of death of, 510. 



Bern, Carlos, announcement of 

 death of, 114. 



Biological and Microscopical Sec- 

 tion, report of the, 805. 



Bhiisdcll, F. E. The frons in 

 Bemhidium, with description of 

 new si)ecies (Plate III), 23, 70. 



Botanical Section, rejiortofthe, 807. 



Brown, Arthur Erwin. A collec- 

 tion of reptiles and batrachians 

 from Borneo and tlie Loo Choo 

 Islands, 1, 175. A list of re|)tiles 

 and batrachians in the Harrisou- 

 Hdler collection from Sumatra, 

 627, 693. 



Chamberlin, Ralph V. A new 

 genus and tliree new species of 

 Chilopods. 1, 39. 



Cliapman, Henry C, 51. D. Ob- 

 servations on Galeopithecus vo- 

 lans (Plates X, XI, XII). 174, 

 241. 



Cockerell, T. D. A. The classifi- 

 cation of the Aleyrodidae (Plate 

 XV), 174, 279. 



Collett, Robert, appointment as 

 Academy's representative at 

 Niels Ilenrik Abels Commem- 

 onition, 509. 



Concliological Section, report of 

 the. 800. 



Conklin, Edwin G. Karyokinesis 

 and Cytokinesis in tlie matura- 

 tion, fertilization and cleavage 

 of Crepidula and other Gastro- 

 pods, 24, 113, (Journal XII, 1). 



Cooper, James G., M.D., an- 

 nouncement of death of, 512. 



Corresponding Secretary, report 

 01, 798. 



Council for 1903, 812. 



Crawley, Howard. The progres- 

 sive movement of Gregarines 

 (Plates I, II), 1, 4. A peculiar 

 Ilelizoan, 256. 



Cresson, Caleb C, announcement 

 of death of, 2. 



Curators, report of the, 802. 



Dall, William Healy. Synopsis of 

 the Carditacea and of the Amer- 

 ican species, 693, 096. 



Edwards, Edward B., announce- 

 ment of death of, 512. 



Elections during 1902, S13. 



Entomological Section, report of 

 the, 807. 



Fielde, Adele M. Notes on an 

 ant, 593, 599. 



Fox, William J. Contributions to 

 a knowledge of the Ilymenop- 

 tera of Brazil, No. 8, Eumen- 

 ida;, continued (genus Ody- 

 nerus), 23, 44. 



Giekie, Sir Archibald, reception of 

 Hayden Memorial (Geological 

 award, 027. Biographical no- 

 tice, 627. 



General Index, 846. 



Hamilton, S. Harbert. Jlinerals 

 from Santiago Providence, Cuba, 

 744. 



Harshberger, John W. , Ph. I). The 

 germination of the seeds of Car- 

 apa guianensis Aubl., 113, 122. 

 Two diseases of the white cedar 

 (Plates XXII. XXIII), 173, 461. 

 Additional observations on the 

 strand flora of New Jersey, 626, 

 642. 

 Hay, O. P. Descriptions of two 




1902.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



847 



species of extinct tortoises, one 

 new, 255, 383. 



Eayden Memorial Geological 

 Award, conferring of, 637. 



Index to Genera, etc., 824. 



Lewis, Francis M'., M.D., an- 

 nouncement of death of, 113. 



Librarian, report of the, 800. 



Lockington, "William X., announce 

 ment of death of, 593. 



Lyman, Benjamin Smith. Ac- 

 counting for the depth of the 

 Wyomins Buried Valley. 507. 



McCbmbs, R. S., M.D., announce- 

 ment of death of, 510. 



Meehan, Thomas. Contributions 

 to the life-histories of plants, 2, 

 33. 



Jliller, Gerrit S., Jr. Mammals 

 collected by Dr. VT. L. Abbott 

 in the region of the Indrasiri 

 river, Sumatra, 114, 143. Twenty 

 new American bats. 255, 389. 



Mills, Charles K. The Xeurofl- 

 brillary theory and its bearings 

 upon localization of function in 

 the nervous system, 113. 



Mineralogical a"nd Geological Sec- 

 tion, report of the, 809^ 



Montgomery, Thomas H., Jr. On 

 Phylogenetic classification, 173, 

 187. Descriptions of the Lvcos- 

 idse and Osyopidte of Philadel- 

 phia and its vicinity (Plates 

 XXIX, XXX), 512, 534. Studies 

 of the habils of spiders, particu- 

 larly those of the mating period, 

 627," (volume for 1903). 



Moore, Clarence B, Certain abor- 

 iginal remains of the northwest 

 Florida coast. Part II, 24 (Jour- 

 nal XII, 2). 

 Moore, J. Percy. Some Bermuda 

 Oligochseta, with a description of 

 a new species, 24, 80. Descrip- 

 tions of some new Polynoidje, 

 with a list of other Poiychana 

 from north Greenland "waters 

 (Plates XIII, XIV), 174, 258. 

 Report of Corresponding Secre- 

 tary, 798. 

 Murlin, John Raymond. Absorp- 

 tion and secretion in the diges- 

 tive system of the laud Isopods 

 (Plate XVI), 255, 284. 

 Xolan, Edward J., 3LD. Report 

 of Recording Secretary, 796. 

 Report of Librarian, 800) 



Officers, Councilors and Commit- 

 tee on Accounts for 1903, 811. 

 Ornithological Section, report of 



the, 809. 

 Packard, Frederick, M.D., an- 

 nouncement of death of, 692. 

 Palmer, T. Chalkley. Five new 

 species of ^Frachelomonas (Plate 

 XXXV), 744, 791. 

 Perkins, Henry Farnham. The 

 development of Gonioneina Mur- 

 bachii (Plates XXXI, XXXH, 

 XXXin, XXXIV), 512, 750. 

 Pilsbry, Henry A. Xew laud 

 moliusca from Japan and the 

 Bonin Islands, 2, 25. Revision 

 of the Japanese Viviparidse, with 

 notes on Melania and Bithvnia 

 (Plate IX), 113, 115. On" the 

 localities of A. Adams' Japanese 

 ! Helicids, 173, 233. Additions to 

 ; the Japanese land snail fauna, VI 

 (Plates XVII, XVIII, XIX .XX, 

 I XXI), 255, 360. Southwestern 

 land snails, 510. Additions to 

 the Japanese land snail fauna, 

 VII (Plates XXVn, XXVIII), 

 512, 517. New land moliusca 

 from Idaho. 593. 

 Pilsbry, Henry A., and Bryant 

 Walker. The moliusca of" the 

 Jlount Mitchell region (Plates 

 XXIV, XXV), 256, 413. ■ 

 Powell, J. W., announcement of 



death of, 626. 

 Price, Thomas C, announcement 



of death of, 692. 

 Recording Secretary, report of, 



796. 

 Reese, Albert M. Structure and 

 development ot the thyroid a;land 

 in Petromvzon (Plates IV, V, 

 VI, VII), 24, 85. 

 Rehn, James A. G. A new species 

 of the Orthopterous genus Pseu- 

 dojihyllus from SuimUra, 2. 21. 

 A new bat of the genus Glosso- 

 phaga, 23, 37. A revision of the 

 genus Mormoops, 160, 173. On 

 the genus Phrynotettix Glover 

 (Ilaldemanella "Auct.), 593, .595. 

 Contributions toward a knowl- 

 edge of the Orthoptera of Japan, 

 I, Acridids, 594, 629. Three 

 new American bats, 626, 638. 

 Xotes on the Orthoptera of X^ew 

 Mexico and western Texas, 693, 

 717. 




848 PROC. OF ACAD. OF NAT. SCIENCES OF PHILADA. [Dec, 1902. 



Rhoads, Samuel N. Synopsis of 

 the American Martens, 256, 443. 



Roberts, Charles, announcement 

 of death of, 3. 



Schively, George S., M.D., an- 

 nouncement of death of, 505. 



Sections, report of the, 805. 



Smith, Burnett. Phylogeny of the 

 species of Fulgur with remarks 

 on an abnormal form of Fulgur 

 canaliculatum, and sexual dimor- 

 phism in Fulgur carica, 505. 



Smith, Uselma C, announcement 

 of death of, 255. 



Sower, Charles 6., announcement 



^ of death of, 173. 



Springer, Ada. On some living 

 and fossil snails of the genus 

 Physa, found at Las Vegas, New 

 Mexico, 513, 513. 



Standing Comm'ttees, 1902, 1. 



Stone, Witmer. A collection of 

 birds from Sumatra, obtained hy 

 Alfred C. Harrison, .Tr., and Dr. 

 H. M. Hiller, 626, G70. 



Stone, Witmer, and J. A. G, Rehn. 

 A collection of mammals from 

 Sumatra, with a review of the 

 genera Tardigradus and Tragu- 

 lus, 114, 127. On the Terrestrial 

 Vertebrata of portions of south- 

 ern New Mexico and western 

 Texas. 749, (volume tor 1903). 



Viereck, H. Hymeuoptera from 

 southern California and New 

 Mexico, with description of new 

 species, 692. 728. 



Yirchow, Rudolf, announcement 

 of death of, 594. 




PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1902. 



PLATE I. 



CRAWLEY. MOVEMENT OF GREGARINES. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI, PHILA. 1902. 



PLATE ri. 



/O 



^ 



/, 





JZ 



TJ 



yj 



/f 



P: 



CRAWLEY. MOVEMENT OF GREGARINES. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1902. 



PLATE III. 



BLAISDELL. FRONS IN BEMBIDIUM. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1902. 



PLATE IV. 



REESE. THYROID GLAND IN PETROMYZON. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1902. 



PLATE V. 



, ' V.CjC. 



1 I^J \ V.A.4 «AJ 



'•^ VCO p»,R ^t 





\ 



0. 



REESE. THYROID GLAND IN PETROMYZON. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCL PHILA. 1902. 



PLATE VI. 



REESE. THYROID GLAND IN PETROMYZON. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1902. 



PLATE VII. 



^^^PHE 



O.L. RS. M. 





lOb 



REESE. THYROID GLAND IN PETROMYZ 



'ZON. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1902. 



PLATE VIII 



HARSHBERGER. GERMINATION OF CARAPA. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1902. 



PLATE IX. 



FILSBRY. MOLLUSKS OF JAPAN AND THE BONIN ISLANDS. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1902. 



PLATE X. 



CHAPMAN ON GALEOPITHECUS. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1902. 



PLATE XI. 



xs- 



CHAPMAN ON GALEOPITHECUS. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1902. 



PLATE XII. 



iffiiii 



S's?' 



CHAPMAN ON GALEOPITHECUS. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SC:. PHILA. -1902. 



PLATE Xni. 



V-.ri Vj 



?■> 



M^ 



1 



^./ 



v/ 



^ 







MOORE. NEW POLYNOIDyE. 





PROC ACAD. NAT, SCI. PHILA. 1902. 



PLATE .XI^^ 













MOORE. NEW POLYNOID/E. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCr. PHILA. 1902. 



PLATE XV. 



HIMJUW 



D. 





\^ 



\ 



^- 



A 



COCKERELL. CLASSIFICATION OF ALEYRODID/E. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1902. 



PLATE A VI 



10 



AlB.Cr. 





• • • • •#* I -\ • ' 



V •* 



Art. 









•f / 



Alb.Gr/ 



• •• • i»«* 



♦•. •• •* 



'.Alb.Gr. 



'■^'•iit/j: ' ' 



v/ 





Alt.Gr. 





MURLIN. DIGESTIVE SYSTEM OF ISOPODS. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1902. 



h 



c 



i * "^4 



r 



J 







\ I 



M 



(^ 



¥ 



/lO 



PLATE XVri. 



I ^^^^ 



14 



H 



PILSBRY. JAPANESE LAND SNAILS. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1902. 



PLATE XVIII. 



PILSBRY. JAPANESE LAND SNAILS. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1902, 



PLATE XIX. 



PILSBRY. JAPANESE LAND SNAILS. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1903. 



PLATE XX. 



PILSBRY. JAPANESE LAND SNAILS. 





PROC, ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1902 



PLATE XXI. 



PILSBRY. JAPANESE LAND SNAILS. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1902. 



PLATE XXII. 



HARSHBERGER. DISEASES OF WHITE CEDAR. 





PROC. ACAD NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1902. 



PLATE XXni. 



HARSHBERGER. DISEASES OF WHITE CEDAR. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1902. 



PLATE XXIV. 



WALKER AND PILSBRY. MT. MITCHELL MOLLUSCA. 





PROC. AfAD NAT SC! PHILA. 1902, 



PLATE XXV 



WALKER AND PILSBRY. MT. MITCHELL MOLLUSCA. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA 1902. 



PLATE XXVI 



^ *» * ^> if ^ (J 



I # # # # ^ ♦ 



SPRINGER. LIVING AND FOSSIL PHYSyE. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1902, 



PLATE XXVII. 



PILSBRY, NEW JAPANESE MOLLUSCA. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1902. 



PLATE .XXVIII. 



PILSBRY. NEW JAPANESE MOLLUSCA. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1902. 



PLATE XXIX. 



MONTGOMERY. LYCOSJD^ AND OXYOPID^. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1902. 



PLATE XXX. 



MONTGOMERY. LYCOSID^ AND OXYOPID^, 






PROC. ACAD NAT SCI. PHILA. 1902. 



y 







7 



))r 



10 



PERKINS. 




PLATE XXXI, 





■-* 'jr 



>^' 



NIONEMA MURBACHII. 






PROC ACAD NAT SCI^ PHILA. 1902. 



16 



PERKINS. O 




PLATE XXXII 



_14 



I 





u 



lONEMA MURBACHII- 






PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1902. 







PERKINS Gi 




PLATE XXXIII 



J" 



^■■t'Sr 





J"U 



lONEMA MURBACHll- 





PROC ACAD NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1902. 



PLATE XXXIV. 



\ 







^N 



-MP.. 



WoA •(«;!• 25 



PERKINS. GONIONEMA MURBACHll. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1902. 



PLATE XXXV. 



PALMER ON TRACHEL0M0NA5. 







QH Academy of Natural Sciences 

 X of Philadelphia 

 j^2 Proceedings 



(if 



& Medical 

 Stri«li 



PLEASE DO NOT REMOVE 

 CARDS OR SLIPS FROM THIS POCKET 



UNIVERSITY OF TORONTO LIBRARY 



<;TOR*^^^ 





