H (iHi)t'l"=i"i»"'tM''l 



i'i!l!!lHI':!!H':!iiniiV:^ 



llliltilUIIHt 



il))!OH iitji i;l»tiilili)U.M)HJHiuiuv)tultilliiiii:;.' - 



' ■'•'■'■'■' U!l!HillH(:41HimiUWi»ltl"'l 



)litl-!ti«ltHI4W41t«l!imiil) III 



4Uu;4f;.;«iwwn,wit(iiju;(:.-.\ 



it«iuHmiii4 



lii))il!!iinii:t!l)4 -:4WUfit«! 4n;iiUi-ii«imuii; 



UjlltJ I ill 1:41 141)414114 Hit!, U-IHttti»M444UM4'aUJHm 111 i.-.' 



( ll!14il4Uliililllj4i;U l4|<4llHt41)i4l44l!4r44aiU|ui|ltll 



U litllil»!lllUHI4UUilllIl)llllllnll4U41lll:lll444i(;itlllu 



411 1444114 111 UH<Ui41HlHlU14Ui 4; 



4414414)4)44 t44l4414441444It4;i;44 U4U44+ 



4JiW44444!|tii»ll41)44)l«44144m444it 



,. ,. |Ui»;!4ftl»l4lH4l(Wit4itli4l44i4444;4i 



141 II4(h|4n44uilU41i; )l<44i44;44144l4t44,l'» 

 ...IT.IJ [ .T 



,.-,,,;4P<U!l41i44144lllll44«414444 



.i(jUl|i44)4t4lUU)4l44l44l44l44444U. 



ltl(Ult4l4ilt444!14M444 144)441114114 144 li4 



mi <ii4;uHf4(!iU44i444ii[4iiii4ii4U4U4 



:P 



t44(441t41IUUlUtU:U44^ 

 , . _ . , ^ , 14h44444m4lH:44B4mU4 

 .liMlUUit4iui44tvUlUI4<4U4U44<. 

 )|4ll4ll4)l(iliJ<i4<T4lU(4U4UMtUt. 

 |14lt4lillilll4(i4il4)4444i4444i44144U4 

 U4l4llili:i)44iUli!4i4»li44't4444i4444' 

 --t4l4444l<44MIII4)|4>l(wiu;44l4l44t4. 

 "U|l(MtU< 4)44)4)141 li44>44!4)44V 

 J 4m4ill)UIIUU4llHWJ. 



iitiitW4)il444ll<44:44:i4:u 



.. lUJl]il!IH14l;4l4!!U!»14U4 



n tniUiiijiiiliiiiiiii ui'.Kti.. 



ilSiiiu) 4il4i<iii!44iti:u'.:iii4 

 liiimjuuinuiiliinuuiar ■ 

 (tiii:t)Ui)>i4ii!iii4Hi::u;ii 

 4)t!liiiiiai!iiitii4i4^i!i!iui 



,lU(Uilillll«44ti.' 1 .4S1I.J11 



imnijii!i)ili4iitiurun)M5'f)Uia 

 -iHliM)iini(liUl)ti;it:ii'iiiniii4 



lil l!(lniIII)!4llllliUHI!lllUll4l 



)l)aiiiitiiiiiiuuiit:iu4iuH<4i 



liH[ltlltlilll.illtI!4tUmiit(l!ilMlTS 



.J(Hiii|:<iittmiittui!;!Utiui:ii!ii If 

 II ihuiilmiiiijiiuiiuiitiuiiiiiui: I'l- 

 .»! tWiltlKIUinmniHIHrirmilH;!::!:;;:! 

 Uj l|l!Jli!m«il»!mi!HHlillttlKl!::uui::, 

 •41 Hli(imi!«f|liruirnir!m!in:'.!.i:;;rt;i 



iHiii 



nilliiilliiiiitiiiriii'ii 



, IturiHiiuiiuir! 



;niill!nimtilimiiii!:im;imi!iui,!' 

 liiiiiuitiiliiniimattiMiuiinuniiK- 

 ■)liiiimii!Utiiitu:iiuiuiiinin!iiH-i 

 - niii|tl!iiili>fU!mi!iu::4!i!iurai: 

 ■■■•| tlitiiiiiiUiiiKiiiiuuiiuiiriu- 

 liiiiiHiiiisitiiltimmnKimii- 



.iiiii!itii:itU!iiinnuut!!U!iir 

 itdiuntiuiiuri'.niiWMHi!' 



itiUhiiiiiti 



1 tUllttl!(lM!Itni 



1 ttuiiuiitrmir' 

 imi|il;i!himh'.ti 



: illttilltlMl! 



iSiji!!!! 



niiiiiiii.... 



tint iiiiiiirii 

 liiiii.'K'iiirit , 

 jjjHinil! !tn!!!!!' 



11 I llliitt 



Itll 



Jill. ;l!lll!luilii-.,;i.i.":ii: 



iHliiituuntrntitttii HI! '.(!;,-„,.„ 

 ■■ iiimitiiuiiiittiit'itiiiFt'ffW' 



I 11 tttlU!tlltmtt!!l!r>f'!!!! 



Ill I iiitrtitmiitiimiii!:! 



tllll intlllllUItllll'llrli 

 llllHniliillt! M'l"!' 

 I lUll!lltllllllii!llin 

 llliitllttltiiiusifrcii 

 llltl!l!l:t-!ttt!l!!l!r:M 



I kin lidiitii'!"!! 

 nlfiH!tiiitilit'.iri!i; 



|fll lUllll'lliMI'.' 



iUIiUiiiUuiiiuuiiKiiinifiUiii^na 



Univ.of 

 Toronto 

 Library 



Miii' 







PROCEEDINGS 



OF THE 



Academy of Natural Sciences 



OF 



PHILADELPHIA 



VOLUME LXUl 



1911 



PHILADELPHIA : /. 



THE ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES 

 LOGAN SQUARE 

 1911-1912 




<?^ 



/ 



^j?. 



The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, 



February 2, 1911. 



I hereby certify that printed copies of the Proceedings for 1911 were 

 mailed as follows: — 



Pages 1-16... March 16, 1911. 



17-160 :.;. April 6, 1911. 



161-232 : May 24, 1911. 



233-312 June 15, 1911. 



313-360 June 22, 1911. 



361-424 July 27, 1911. 



425-456 August 15, 1911. 



457-472 September 11, 1911. 



473-488 October 3, 1911. 



489-492 October 11, 1911. 



493-508 October 28, 1911. 



509-524 November 6, 1911. 



525-588 January 26, 1912. 



EDWARD J. NOLAN, M.D., 



Recording Secretary. 



PUBLICATION committee: 



Henry Skinner, M.D., Witmer Stone, A.M., 



Henry A. Pilsbry, Sc.D., William J. Fox, 



Edward J. Nolan, M.D. 



The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M.D., LL.D., ex-officio. 



EDITOR: Edward J. Nolan, M.D. 




CONTENTS. 



For Announcements, Reports, etc., see General Index. 



PAGE 



Banks, Nathan. Some Arachnida from North Carolina 



Plates XXXIV, XXXV 440 



Berry, S. S. A note on the genus Lolliguncula. Plate VI 100 



A new Californian Chiton. Plate XL 487 



Brown, Amos P., Ph.D. New Cycads and Conifers from the 



Trias of Pennsylvania. Plates I-V 17 



Variations in some Jamaican species of Pleurodonte. 



Plates VII-XI 117 



The Formation of Ripple-marks, Tracks and Trails. Plates 



XLI, XLII 536 



Brown, Amos P., Ph.D., and Henry A. Pilsbry, Sc.D. 

 Fauna of the Gatun Formation, Isthmus of Panama. 



Plates XXII-XXIX 336 



Chamberlin, Ralph V. The Ethno-Botany of the Gosiute 



Indians 24 



Crawley, Howard. Observations on Sarcocystis Rileyi 



(Stiles) . Plate XXXVI 457 



Fowler, Henry W. The Fishes of Delaware 3 



A new Flat Fish from New Jersey 200 



Notes on Clupeoid Fishes 24 



Some Fishes from Venezuela 419 



New Fresh-water Fishes from Western Ecuador 493 



Notes on Salmonoid and related Fishes 551 



Keeley, F. J. Micro-Spectroscopic Observations 106 



MTndoo, Norman Eugene, Ph.D. The Lyriform Organs 



and Tactile Hairs of Araneads. Plates XXX-XXXIII .. 375 

 Moore, J. Percy. The Polychsetous Annelids dredged by the 

 U. S. S. "Albatross" off the Coast of Southern California 

 in 1904. Ill: Euphrosynidse to Goniadidae. Plates 

 XV-XXI 234 




IV CONTENTS. 



PAGE 



PiLSBRY, Henry A., Sc.D. Scaphopoda of the Jamaican 



Oligocene and Costa Rican Pliocene 165 



Remarks on new Cirripedes 170 



A new Ecphora of the Chesapeake Miocene 438 



Notes on the Anatomy and Classification of the genera 

 Omphalina and Mesomphix. Plates XXXVII, 



XXXVIII, XXXIX 469 



A new East Indian Euciroa „ 523 



Notes on some Pleurotomariidse of the Cretaceous of New 



Jersey 531 



PiLSBRY, Henry A,, Sc.D., and A. P. Brown, Ph.D. The 

 Land MoUusca of Montego Bay, Jamaica; with notes 

 on the Land MoUusca of the Kingston Region. Plate 

 XLIII 572 



PiLSBRY, Henry A., Sc.D., and James H. Ferris. MoUusca 

 of the Southwestern States. V: The Grand Canyon 

 and Northern Arizona. Plates XII-XIV 174 



Rehn, James A. G. Records and descriptions of African 



Mantidae and Phasmidse (Orthoptera) 319 



Stone, Witmer, A.M. On sqpie Collections of Reptiles and 



Batrachians from the western United States 222 



Tucker, Henry, M.D. Scale Variations in Stilosoma exten- 



uatum (A. E. Brown) 549 



Vanatta, E. G. MoUusca of Arkansas, Louisiana and 



Mississippi 525 




PROCEEDINGS 



OF THK 



ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES 



OP 



PHILADELPHIA. 



1911. 



January 3. 

 Henry Skinner, M.D., in the Chair. 



Thirty-seven persons present. 



Mr. James A. G. Rehx made a conununication on the Hebard 

 Academy Expeditions to the western United States, 1909 and 1910. 

 (No abstract.) 



January 17. 

 Philip P. Calvert, Ph.D., in the Chair. 



Thirteen persons present. 



The reception of a paper entitled "The Fishes of Delaware," by 

 Henry W. Fowler (January 14), was reported. 



Henry A. Pilsbry, Sc.D., made a communication on the natural 

 history of the Mexican boundary, embodying an account of his expe- 

 dition of the summer and fall of 1910, with special reference to a 

 knowledge of the molluscan fauna. (No abstract.) 

 1 




PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



The following were elected members: 



Thomas G. Ashton, M.D., 



Lynford Biddle, 



Francis E. Bond, 



William J. Conlen, 



David E. Dallam, 



G. L. S. Jamison, M.D., 



Wilmer Krusen, M.D., 



Bertram Lippincott, 



Parke Longnecker, 



Collier F. Martin, M.D., 



W. S. Newcomett, M.D., 



George W. Norris, M.D., 



William Pepper, M.D., 



E. HoUingsworth Siter, M.D., 



Charles Stewart Wurts. 



Walter Rothschild, Ph.D., was elected a Correspondent. 



The folloAving were ordered to be printed : 




1911.1 NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 



THE FISHES OF DELAWARE. 



BY HENRY W. FOWLER. 



The waters of the State of Delaware may well be included in the 

 marine fauna known as the Virginian, which is not essentially different 

 from that of New Jersey. The extent of sea-coast is comparatively 

 short, about 23 mUes, and from this little positive information has yet 

 been obtained. Several years ago the deep-sea pound established 

 off Dewey Beach was abandoned, so that no important fish industry 

 is carried on at present. Many of the off-shore fishes are said to have 

 been taken in the pound, and some of them quite frequently. 



The surf fauna along the beaches, which are usually moderately 

 inclined and easily seined in many places, furnishes schools of smaller 

 fishes, such as Mugil, Trachinotus and Menticirrhus. Crustacea, such 

 as Ocypode albicans, Callinectes sapidus, Ovalipes ocellatus and Emerita 

 talpoida, are abundant and often constitute the food of many fishes. 



The bays present peculiarities in their tides. The greatly larger 

 area of Delaware Bay has a broad outlet to the sea with the usual 

 tidal, allowing a great influx of marine forms, most of which ascend 

 to Ship John Light or Bombay Hook Point. On the other hand, 

 though both Indian River and Rehoboth Bays are salt water, they 

 have little or no tides, as the only channel of egress to the sea is the 

 Indian River Inlet, which being very narrow allows only a compara- 

 tively small escape and inflow of water. However, marine fishes 

 enter these bays by this passage, and sometimes in numbers. Uca 

 ranges along the salt and brackish marshes as far north as Armstrong's 

 Creek in Newcastle County. Prawns, like Palcemonetes vulgaris, occur 

 almost everywhere. 



The fresh-water fauna may be divided into a tidal and an above- 

 tidal region, of which the latter may again be divided into a lowland 

 and an upland region. The first of these is largely homogeneous 

 throughout the drainage of both the Delaware and Chesapeake Bays. 

 Acipenser sturio, Lepisosteus, Pomolohus pseudoharengus, Alosa, 

 Osmerus, Ameiurus catus, Fundvlus heteroclitus macrolepidotus, 

 Tylosurus, Roccus and Morone are characteristic. Apeltes quadracus, 

 not yet taken in the State, may also occur, likewise Dorosoma cepedi- 

 anum. Palcemonetes vidgaris is the most abundant crustacean. 




4 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



The lowland region above tide has comparatively few forms charac- 

 teristic. They are Notropis chalybceus, Erimyzon, Ameiunis natalis 

 prosthistius, Esox, Umbra, Gamhusia, Aphredoderus, Enneacanthus, 

 Mesogonistius and Boleichthys. Though Acantharchus pomotis has 

 not yet been obtained in Delaware, it may occur in this region. An 

 interesting condition is presented along the basin of Laurel Creek 

 above Laurel, where there is still a cypress swamp of moderate extent. 

 The water in these fresh lowland streams is mostly dark, though less 

 deeply stained than the costal or pine-woods streams in New Jersey. 

 The fishes are also less darkly colored, though locally some are quite 

 smutty. But little sphagnum has been noted, and I have not seen 

 any submerged beds. Palmmonetes vulgaris is every^-here the most 

 abundant crustacean. Rana clamata, R. pipiens and R. palustris are 

 abundant amphibians, and Matrix, Kinosternon, Sternothcerus and 

 Chrysemys the most common reptiles I met with along the streams. 



The upland region, comprised mainly in the bed of Christiana Creek, 

 in the upper part of New Castle County, and therefore of compara- 

 tively small area, agrees largely with the rest of its extent in the 

 adjoining portions of Chester and Delaware Counties in Pennsylvania. 

 Many of these streams are quite rocky. Hybognathus, Pimephales, 

 Semotilus, Ahramis, Notropis, Rhinichthys, Catostomus commersonnii, 

 Erimyzon, Ameiurus nebidosus, Schilbeodes, Esox, Fundulus diaphanus, 

 Lepomis, Eupomotis, Boleosoma and Perca are characteristic. I have 

 not found Rhinichthys cataractce, Exoglossum moxillingua, Catostomus 

 nigricans or Cottus gracilis within the limits of the State, though they 

 all occur in the Brandywine basin just over the Pennsylvania line. 



Certain catodromous fishes, like the eels, and the anadromous 

 lampreys and clupeoids may be met with in many fresh waters, 

 though their true homes are in the sea. Fresh-water forms of wide 

 distribution, like Abramis, Esox, Umbra, Eupomotis and Perca, are 

 interesting, as they 'often range down close to the sea. 



The present account is offered, although very little has yet been 

 published on this interesting fish-fauna, and though necessaril}' pre- 

 liminary, in the hope that it will be of use in the study of geogi-aphical 

 distribution. The few scattered records or notes relating to the fishes 

 of this State which have been published are included as foot-notes. 

 For these reasons I have visited a number of localities, at the same 

 time making collections and studies. All such materials obtained 

 have been placed in the collections of The Academy of Natural Sciences 

 of Philadelphia. I am especially indebted to Mr. A. D. Poole, Presi- 

 dent of the Delaware Game Protective Association, for the grant of a 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 5 



permit to collect fishes in Delaware and for enabling me to secure 

 some valuable collections from Wilmington. I am also under obliga- 

 tions in many ways, either for notes or contributions of specimens, 

 to Dr. R. J. PhiUips, Mr. S. N. Rhoads, Mr. T. D. Keim, Mr. C. J. 

 Pennock, Dr. Herman Burgin, Mr. H. L. Mather, Jr., Mr. B. W. Grif- 

 fiths, and others. A number of the more common market fishes have 

 also been examined, though none of these were preserved. 



Myxine glutinosa Linnseus. 



Only known from off-shore by Smith and Kendall's record.^ 



Petromyzon marinus Linnseus. "Lamprey." 



I found a small one in the White Clay Creek near Thompson, April 

 9, 1910, which was not preserved. Mostly taken in the spring, in 

 tidal waters and ascending streams wath direct communication to 

 the sea. Mr. Poole says they formerly ascended Mill Creek near 

 Wilmington. 



Eulamia milberti (MUller and Henle). "Shark." 



One small example taken at Dewe}'- Beach, Sussex County, October 

 12, 1910. 



Sphyrna zygsena (Linnaeus). " Hammer-head Shark." 



Although I have no examples, it undoubtedly occiu-s about Reho- 

 both, where Mr. Charles Jaeger says he saw a number of small examples, 

 the largest not over 3 feet in length, in September several years ago. 



Squatina squatina (Linnaius). "Lizard Fish." 



Greatly detested by the fishermen, who say it has been common at 

 times off Dewey Beach, many having been taken in the pound. Sev- 

 eral years ago they were also said to have been very abundant south- 

 ward, as at Ocean City and Chincoteague, sometimes greatly annoying 

 the sturgeon fishermen by being gilled in their nets. A stuffed example 

 in the Academy was evidently secured at Lewes some years ago.^ 



Manta birostris (Walbaum). 



Twice described^ from the entrance to Delaware Bay. No examples 

 from Delaware in the Academy. 



I have a number of egg-cases, empty, collected recently on Dewey 

 and Rehoboth Beaches, which probably belong to Raja ocellata and 

 R. eglanteria, both of which are said to be abundant in the region. 



» Rep. U. S. F. Com., 1896 (1898), p. 169. 



* Squatina dumerili in Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1875, p. 510, from A. 

 Purvis, in list of donations to the Museum. 



^ Cephalopterus vampyrus Mitchill, Ann. Lye. Nat. Hist. N. Y., 1, 1824, p. 23, 

 PI. 2, fig. 1. Cephaloptera gioma Le Sueur, Joum. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., IV, 

 1824, p. 115, PI. 16, figs. 1-4. 




6 PROCKEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



Acipenser sturio Linnaeus. " Sturgeon." 



Reported from Delaware City by Ryder/ where it was formerly 

 abundant and the object of extensive fisheries, though now said to be 

 scarce. The occasional large sturgeon still to be seen in Philadelphia 

 markets is usually now captured further down the coast. I recently 

 picked up a large dorsal scute on Dewey Beach. 

 Aoipenser brevirostrum Le Sueur. 



Included on Ryder's authority.^ He notes^ from Delaware City. 



Lepisosteus OSSeus (Linnaeus). " Gar Pike." 



Described many years ago from a stuffed example still in the Acad- 

 emy, probably from Bombay Hook.^ Mr. Rhoads secured heads at 

 Seaford and in the Indian River about 3 miles below Millsboro. 



Fomolobus pseudoharengus (Wilson). "Branch Herring." 



Ascends fresh-water streams and such waters above tide as have 

 direct communication with the sea. Though no examples in the 

 Academy from Delaware, I have examined examples at Wilmington. 

 In many places very abundant in the spring runs, great numbers 

 being captured in the Indian River to Millsboro, Laurel Creek to 

 Laurel, Mispillion Creek to Milford, Delaware City and the canal at 

 St. Georges. ' P. mediocris appears at the fisheries earlier and P. 

 cestivalis comes much later, and though I have not obtained either, 

 both doubtless occur in most tidal waters. 



Alosa sapidissima (Wilson). "Shad." 



This far-famed food-fish is taken in numbers in most of the larger 

 tidal waters during the spring run/ though not running into the 

 smaller fresh waters so far as the branch herring. I have seen market 

 examples at Wilmington. Young in the Academy from Fort Delaware. 



Brevoortia tyrannus (Latrobe). " Menhaden." 



Common along the coast '^ and in Delaware Bay. Sometimes 

 ascends the Delaware nearly to Philadelphia. Young in the Academy 

 from Fort Delaware. 



Anchovia mitohilli (Valenciennes). 



jVIany from Fort Delaware, obtained by Dr. C. Arrott, are in the 

 collection. 



* Bull. U. S. F. Com., VIII, 1888 (1890), p. 240. 



* Lepidosteus crassus Cope, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1865, p. 86. 



' Forest and Stream, VI, February 10, 1876, p. 6. A few in January and 

 February at Bombay Hook. 



'' L. c, V, November 11, 1875, p. 230. Great nimabers chased ashore by 

 bluefish. 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 7 



Salmo salar Linnseus. " Salmon." 



Introduced in the Delaware River, and Harmsworth mentions 

 subsequently that they had been taken one season in most shad 

 fisheries from Fort Delaware to the Water Gap.® I have no recent 

 information and never saw an example. 



Salvelinns fontinalis (Mitchill). "Brook Trout." 



Several streams in Kent County were reported, some years ago, 

 as having been stocked with brook trout. ^ Though apparently rare 

 or entirely absent in suitable localities at present, it is likely to have 

 been indigenous perhaps in some streams in the northern portions of 

 Newcastle County in early times. No examples. 

 Osmerus mordax (Mitchill). "Smelt." 



Recorded many years ago from the Brandywine Creek at Wil- 

 mington.^" No examples. 



Angailla ohrisypa Rafinesque. " Eel." 



Abundant in almost aU waters. Many have been taken about Lewes, 

 and in Indian River Bay quite an eel-pot industry is carried on, though 

 the eels taken in these pots are all rather small or of moderate size. 

 My examples from MispUlion Creek, Milford, Brown's Branch near 

 Harrington, Armstrong's Creek, Newcastle and Wilmington. 



Leptocephalus conger (Linnaeus). 



No examples. Reported about the breakwater at Lewes, where !Mr. 

 F. J. Keeley secured one of 15^ pounds. 

 Hybog^athns nuohalis regius (Girard). 



A few from the Brandywine Creek near Wilmington. 

 Pimephales notatus (Rafinesque). 



No examples. Said" to range from the "St. Lawrence River to 

 Delaware." 



Semotilus buUaris (Rafinesque). "Fall Fish." 



Abundant in the Christiana Creek basin. Dr. Phillips has found 

 it in Burrow's Run, the Red Clay Creek throughout its course, Mill 

 Creek near Hockessin, and the White Clay Creek near its mouth. My 

 examples from near Holly Oak in a small run, and the Brandywine 

 basin near Wilmington. 

 Semotilus atromaculatus (Mitchill). 



Abundant in the Christiana upland basin. Dr. Phillips has found 



* Forest and Stream, XLIV, June 8, 1895, p. 464. 



• L. c, XXIX, December 1, 1887, p. 369. 



*" Osmerus viridescens Norris, Am. Angler's Book, 1864, p. 263. Forest and 

 Stream, XI, December 5, 1878, p. 361. 



" Blatchley, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1885, p. 64. 




8 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



it in Mill Creek near Hockessin and Burrow's Run, in Newcastle County. 

 I have examined examples from near Wilmington. 



Abramis orysoleuoas (Mitchill). "Roach. Bitter Head." 



Found in almost all sluggish or stUl waters. Dr. Phillips secured it 

 in the Red Clay Creek near the State line. I have examined very 

 many examples from Naaman's Creek, Wilmington, Newcastle, Arm- 

 strong's Creek, White Clay Creek near Newark, Mispillion Creek near 

 Milford, and Laurel Creek at Laurel. 

 Notropis bifrenatus (Cope). 



I have found a few in the Brandjnvine Creek near Wilmington. 

 Notropis procne (Cope). 



Found abundant in Laurel Creek tidal near Laurel and the Chop- 

 tank headwaters near Marydel. 

 Notropis hudsouius amarns (Girard). 



Very abundant in the Brandywine at Wilmington, near where I have 

 secured many examples. 



Notropis whipplii analostauus (Girard). 



The most abundant cyprinoid in the Christiana basin. Very many 

 examples from Wilmington, the White Clay Creek near Newark and 

 Naaman's Creek. 



Notropis cornutns (Mitchill). " Red Fin." 



Many examples examined from Naaman's Creek, Shellpot Run, 

 Wilmington, White Clay Creek at Newark, Laurel Creek tidal near 

 Laurel, and the Choptank headwaters near Marydel. 



Notropis ohalybaeus (Cope). 



Abundant in lowland streams, especially in rather sluggish water. 

 Many examples from Millsboro, Milford, Laurel and Marydel. 



Notropis photogenis amoenus (Abbott). 

 A few small examples from the Choptank headwaters near Marydel- 



Sbiniohtbys atronasus (Mitchill). " Black-nosed Dace." 



Abundant in all upland brooks and streams. I found it in the 

 Brandywine at Wilmington, Naaman's Creek, run near Holly Oak, 

 Silversides, Shellpot Run and the White Clay Creek near Newark. 



Cyprinus carpio Linnaeus. "Carp." 



Introduced in many waters. I have examined numbers of examples," 

 finding several of the well-known varieties, not only market specimens, 

 but many taken near Wilmington, and others at Millsboro. At the 

 latter place some of the examples were at least 2 feet long. 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



Catostomns oommersonnii (Lac^pfcde). "Sucker." 



Very abundant in the Christiana basin, and valued as a food-fish 

 chiefly in cold weather. Dr. Phillips found it in the Red Clay Creek 

 below Ashland and in Burrow's Run. Very many examples, of all 

 ages, examined, from Silversides, Naaman's Creek, Shellpot Run 

 and Wilmington. 



Erimyzon sucetta oblongns (Mitchill). "Mullet." 



Common in almost all streams, and the young often associated with 

 young roach and Notropis chahjbceus, characteristic of quiet lowland 

 waters. Many examples of all ages examined from Wilmington, 

 Millsboro, Milford, Laurel and Marydel. Though rather dark in 

 color, like other small fish from dark lowland waters, none shoAved 

 such intense melanism of similar fishes found in the deeply stained 

 cedar streams of the New Jersey lowlands. 



Ameiur us oatus (Linnaeus). " White Catfish." 



A valued food-fish, and in some places reaching a good size. Said 

 to be common at Delaware City, Slaughter Beach, Lewes and Indian 

 River Bay. Cope found it in Mispillion Creek. Dr. Burgin has 

 secured it at Ship John Light, off the jetty at St. Georges and at 

 Delaware City. My examples from Wilmington and Laurel. 



Ameiurus natalis prosthistius (Cope). "Catfish. Black Catfish." 



I have 3 large examples secured in the Indian River at Millsboro 

 on October 14, 1910. This is quite interesting as being the first 

 instance of the species being known from the peninsula. It appears 

 to be frequent in this region, as a number of others were also secured 

 by the fishermen. 



Ameiurus nebulOBUS (Le Sueur). "Catfish. Yellow Catfish." 



Abundant in almost all waters, especially in the Brandywine and 

 Christiana Creeks. I have examined examples from Naaman's Creek, 

 Wilmington and Armstrong's Creek. This species was described once 

 from Mispillion Creek.^^ 



Schilbeodes gyrinus (Mitchill). 



One labeled "Delaware" was obtained many years ago from Dr. 

 Pickering. 



Esox americanus (Gmelin). "Pike." 



Valued as a food-fish, though less so than the next, as it does not 

 reach so large a size. Many examples examined from Naaman's 

 Creek, near Chippewa, Armstrong's Creek, Wilmington, Delaware 



" Amiurus mispilliensis Cope, Proc. Am. Philos. Soc, Phila., XI, 1870, p. 486. 




10 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



City, Brown's Branch near Harrington, and the Choptank headwaters 

 near Marydel. 



Esoz reticulatus Le Sueur. " Pickerel." 



One of the most vakied food-fishes, though its game qualities are 

 generally best exhibited after it has been hauled into the boat. Dr. 

 Phillips found it in fresh water near Rehoboth, and it is also said to 

 have been abundant in the canal at St. Georges. Many examples 

 from Millsboro, Milford, Brown's Branch near Harrington, Laurel 

 and Marydel, were examined. 



Umbra pygmsea (De Kay). " Mud Minnow." 



A seclusive little fish, often found buried in the muddy bottoms of 

 little pools, or in quiet weedy or choked-up coves, always in fresh 

 water. Dr. Phillips found it in fresh water near Rehoboth and 

 Dr. Burgin has taken it in Bellevue Creek and near Bombay Hook. 

 My numerous examples from Newcastle, Delaware City, Rehoboth, 

 Brown's Branch near Harrington, and Laurel. 

 Fundulus heteroclitus maorolepidotus (Walbaum). 



Abundant in almost all tidal waters as well as the costal salt ponds 

 and ditches, where in many places they swarm by the thousand. 

 My examples from Naaman's Creek, Holly Oak, Claymont, State Road, 

 Armstrong's Creek, Red Lion Creek, Delaware City and Rehoboth. 

 Doubtless F. majalis is abundant, as reported, about Lewes and 

 Rehoboth in salt water, though I have no examples. 



F»ndulu« diaphanus (Le Sueur). 



I have not found this species out of fresh water, though it ranges 

 down close to the ocean. Abundant in Naaman's Creek, Wilmington, 

 Delaware City, Rebohoth and Laurel, where I have obtained many 

 examples. 

 Cyprinodon variegatui Lac^pfede. 



Abundant about Lewes and Rehoboth. It enters fresh Avater near 

 the sea, though usually not beyond the reach of tide. My examples 

 collected by Dr. Phillips at Rehoboth. 



Gambusia gracilis (Heckel). 



This little fish has been credited with ranging as far north as Dela- 

 ware, on the Atlantic coast of the United States, for some years past.^^ 

 I have been unable, however, to locate the original source of this 

 information, as well as the exact locality in the State where the fish 

 was obtained or observed. I have recently shown" that it also ranges 



" Gambusia afjinis Jordan and Evermann, BuU. U. S. Nat. Mus., No. 47, I, 

 1896, p. 680. 



" Science, XXVI, November 8, 1907, p. 639. 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 11 



into the opposed regions of New Jersey along the southern part of 

 Delaware Bay, where it was found to be very abundant in several 

 streams. It is likewise very abundant in the fresh reaches of the 

 Indian River about Millsboro, where it was first discovered by Mr. 

 T. D. Keim and myself October 13, 1910. We secured many speci- 

 mens, and found it distributed well above the dams almost everywhere. 

 We also found but a single example in Mispillion Creek above the first 

 dam at Milford, on October 15, 1910, which is evidently the most 

 northern part of the State where it has yet been noted. As yet it has 

 only been found by us in fresh water. 



Tylosurus marinus (Walbaum). "Bill Fish." 



Ascends almost all waters in their tidal regions. Dr. Burgin found 

 it near St. Georges, the creek at St. Augustine, Mahon Beach and 

 Little Creek Hundred. Mr. Poole has found it in Rehoboth Bay. 

 It has been reported at Lewes and Delaware City. I have no examples, 

 and only examined a few in the markets. 



Eirtlandia vagrans (Goode and Bean). 



Reported from Cape Henlopen by Smith and Kendall, ^^ who thought 

 this the most northern locality for the species at that time, though 

 Bean had recorded it as early as 1888 from Great Egg Harbor Bay in 

 New Jersey. 



Menidia menidia notata (Mitchill). 



Abundant along the coast, and reported at Lewes, Rehoboth and 

 Indian River Bays. Though I have no preserved examples, I saw a 

 small school at Dewey Beach during the past fall. 



Mugil oephalus Linnseus. " Fat-back. Jumping Mullet." 



Abundant along the coast in the fall. A good food-fish and mtoy 

 taken in nets for market. I saw over 600, taken in a single sweep of 

 the seine at Dewey Beach, on October 12, 1910. 



Mugil ourema Valenciennes. " Fat-back." 



Very abundant at Dewey and Rehoboth Beaches, and though we 

 seined a great number on October 12, 1910, they were exclusively 

 this species, and all were quite small. 



Gasterosteas aouleatus Linna:us. 



Included on Bean's Wilmington record.'® 



'* Kirtlandia laciniata Smith and Kendall, Rep. U. S. F. Com., XXIII, 1896 

 (1898), p. 170. 



1" Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., Ill, 1880, p. 77. 




12 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



Syngnathus fuscus Storer. 



Mr. Pennock secured an example, also of the following species, from 

 below Millsboro in 1905. Both species were known at Lewes. 

 Hippocampas hudsonius De Kay. 

 Scomber soombrus Linnaeus. "Mackerel." 



No examples. A few reported off I^ewes every season by the 

 fishermen.^ ^ 



aohinotus carolinus (Linnaeus). ■' Pompano." 



Found very abundant in the surf at Rehoboth and Dewey Beaches, 

 of rather small size, and associated sometimes with Mugil curema, 

 during the past October. 



Pomatomus saltatrix (Linnaeus). " Blue Fish. Snapping Mackerel." 



Abundant at Dewey and Rehoboth Beaches, Lewes and along the 

 shores of Delaware Bay, appearing irregularly in warm weather. 

 Fishermen report them as high up the Delaware as Delaware City and 

 Newcastle, but these said to be young. I have a small one from 

 Dewey Beach. 



Poronotus triaoanthus (Peck). " Butter Fish." 



I found an example about 10 inches long at Dewey Beach during 

 the past October. Said to be common at Lewes and in Rehoboth Bay. 

 Aphredoderus sayanus (Gilliams). 



Found abundantly in dark secluded waters, usually in quiet choked- 

 up streams, pools or weedy places. All my examples from fresh- 

 water above tide, in the Indian River at Millsboro, Brown's Branch 

 near Harrington and the Choptank headwaters near Marydel. 



Enneacanthus gloriosus (Holbrook). 



Very abundant in similar waters in which the preceding species 

 occurs. Many examples from Millsboro, Milford, Laurel, Marydel 

 and Delaware City. 

 Mesogonistins chsBtodon (Baird). 



This small fish, perhaps the most strikingly handsome of all our 

 fresh-water species, prefers stUl, quiet, w^eedy w^aters, especially in such 

 localities as are productive of Ceratophyllum and other luxuriant 

 aquatic plants. Very abundant in many localities. My specimens 

 from Millsboro, Milford and Laurel. 



LepomisauritUS (Linnaeus). " Long-eared Sunfish. Red-belly." 



Abundant in the upper reaches of fresh waters, especially the more 



" Forest and Stream, IV, May 13, 1875, p. 217. About 50 miles east of the 

 breakwater. 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 13 



upland streams, such as the Christiana basin. It does not apparently 

 descend so far below and into the tidals as the next species. Many 

 examples examined from the Brandywine basin at Wilmington and 

 the White Clay Creek at Newark. Dr. Burgin says it was abundant 

 several years ago in the canal at St. Georges. 



Eupomotis gibbosus (Linnaeus). " Sunfish. Yellow-belly." 



Common in most all fresh waters and approaching near to the lower 

 tidals, though I have not seen any from salt or brackish water. Many 

 examples examined from Naaman's Creek, Holly Oak, Shellpot Run, 

 Wilmington, Armstrong's Creek, Delaware City, Millsboro and 3 miles 

 below in the Indian River, Milford, Laurel and Marydel. 



Uioropterus dolomieu Lac^pfede. " Small-mouth Bass." 



Introduced in fresh water on account of its excellent game and 

 food qualities. My specimens from Wilmington. 



Mioropterus salmoides (Lac^pfede). "Large-mouth Bass." 



Introduced like the preceding, and though attaining a larger size 

 and valued as food, it is usually less esteemed by anglers. I have 

 examined a number of large examples at Millsboro. 



Peroa flavescens (Mitchill). "Ring Perch." 



Usually abundant in fresh tidal regions. Dr. Phillips found it 

 common in the canal at St. Georges, and I found it in Naaman's Creek, 

 Armstrong's Creek and Laurel Creek at Laurel, though almost all these 

 examples were small or of moderate size. 

 BoIeoBoma nigrum olmstedi (Storer). 



Usually found in clear shallow water, preferably on sandy or gravelly 

 bottoms, though often among weeds. Very abundant in the Chris- 

 tiana basin. I have examined many examples, those obtained by 

 Cope in "Sussex County" and Dr. Arrott at Fort Delaware, besides 

 those I secured myself in Naaman's Creek, the Brandywine basin at 

 Wilmington, the White Clay Creek near Newark, and the Choptank 

 headwaters near Marydel. All my examples were obtained above 

 tide. 

 Boleiohtbys fasiformis (Girard). 



Abundant in almost all lowland fresh waters, at least above tide. 

 It is rather seclusive, and to be found usually associated with Erimyzon, 

 Aphredoderus, Enneacanthus, Mesogonistius and similar fishes. Many 

 examples, besides those Cope obtained in Sussex County, examined, 

 from the Mispillion Creek at Milford and Laurel Creek at Laurel. 



Bocoas lineatus (Bloch). " Striped Bass." 



Large examples are sometimes captured during the spring in shad- 




14 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



nets along the Delaware. I saw an example of about 17 pounds 

 weight at Lewes in 1907. Dr. PhilHps says it is reported from the 

 Indian River at Cedar Grove Park and the upper end of Rehoboth Bay. 



Morone americana (Gmelin). " Black Perch." 



Common in most fresh or brackish tidals and also in salt water. 

 Dr. Phillips found it in a fresh pond near Rehoboth. Dr. Burgin 

 notes it off the jetty at St. Georges in 1895. I have examined examples 

 at Lewes and Millsboro, the latter of quite dark or dusky coloration 

 apparently well gaining the appropriate local vernacular. 



Centropristis striatus (Linnaeus). "Sea Bass." 



A valued and abundant food-fish along the coast.** entering Dela- 

 ware Bay. I have only examined market examples of this species, 

 and also a few of the next. 



Stenotomus chrysops (Linnaeus). " Porgy." 



Abundant along the coast*" and enters Delaware Bay, 

 Archosargus probatocephalus (Walbauoi). 



Apparently scarce, though a valued food-fish.^" Dr. Burgin reports 

 a few at Ship John Light in 1885. No examples. 



Cynosoion regalis (Schneider). " Yellow-finned Trout." 



An abundant food-fish along the coast and in Delaware Bay, above 

 which it is said to ascend sometimes to Delaware City and the mouth 

 of Christiana Creek. Dr. Burgin reports a few at Ship John in 1885. 

 Abundant in Indian River and Rehoboth Bays and at Lewes, though 

 most of the larger ones from off shore. I have seen a number of 

 market examples. 



Cynosoion nebulosas (Cuvier). "Spotted Trout." 



Distributed like the last, though usually less abundant and appar- 

 ently not wandering so far from the sea.^* Said to reach a large size 

 off shore, about Lewes, and in Rohoboth and Indian River Bays. 

 I have only seen a few market examples. 



Micropogon undulatus (Linnaeus). " Crocus." 



An abundant costal food-fish, entering Delaware Bay, and also 

 said to be common at Lewes and in Rehoboth Bay. I have seen some 

 adult market examples. 



>8 Forest and Stream, XVII, August 11, 1881, p. 31. Oflf Indian River. L. c. 

 XXXIV, AprU 17, 1890, p. 250. Off Cape Henlopen. 



»» L. c, LIX, July 12, 1902, p. 29. Banks 10 to 12 miles east of the breakwater. 



^ L. c, X, February 7, 1878, p. 6. Breakwater. L. c, XX, June 28, 1883, 

 p. 429. Breakwater. L. c, XXII, June 5, 1884, p. 367. Breakwater. 

 _» L. c, LIX, July 12, 1902, p. 29. Banks 10 to 12 miles east of the breakwater. 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 15 



Menticirrhus saxatilis (Schneider). 



An abundant food-fish along the coast and entering Delaware Bay. 

 I secured it at Rehoboth Beach in October. 

 Menticirrhus littoralis (Holbrook). 



Three small examples were seined in the surf at Rehoboth Beach 

 on October 12, 1910. This is the most northern locality at which the 

 species has been taken on the Atlantic coast of the United States. 



Tantoga onitis (Linnaeus). "Black Fish." 



No examples. Reported about the breakwater at Lewes,^ according 

 to Dr. Phillips. 

 Balistes oarolinensis Gmelin. 



One angled at the Lewes breakwater about 1890 by Mr. F. J. Keeley. 

 It was not preserved. 

 Prionotus oarolinus (Linnteus). "Sea Robin." 



Young from Rehoboth and Dewey Beaches. 



Paralichthys dentatus (Linnaeus). "Flounder." 



Abundant along the coast and in Delaware Bay in warm weather. 

 I have examined market examples. 

 Fsendopleuroneotes americanus (Walbaum). "Winter Flounder." 



Distributed like the last, and remains aU the year. Many angled 

 in cold weather in Indian River, Rehoboth and Delaw^are Bays. I 

 have seen a few market specimens. 



Aohirus fasciatus Lac^pfede. "Hog Choke." 



Found in most tidal and salt waters. Said to be abundant in 

 Rehoboth and Indian River Bays, and about Lewes. Also small ones 

 occasional at Delaware City. Mr. Rhoads secured, in 1903, an example 

 now in the Academy, three miles below Millsboro. 



Zoarces anguillaris (Peck). 



Said to range from "Delaware to Labrador."^^ No examples. 



Ammodytes americanus De Kay. "Sand Eel." 



Found abundant on Rehoboth and Dewey Beaches during last 

 October. Also reported previously as common at Lewes. Many 

 examples in the collection. 



Gadus oallarias (Linnaeus). " Codfish." 



Reported common in cold weather off the coast. I have examined 

 market examples. Mr. H. Walker Hand says the first cod known to 



»* Forest and Stream, XXII, June 5, 1884, p. 367, breakwater. 



" Jordan and Evermann, Bull U. S. Nat. Mus., No. 47, III, 189S, p. 2457. 




16 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



him from Delaware Bay was captured last spring between Dead Man 

 Shoal and Fourteen Foot Bank. 



Urophycis regius (Walbaum). 



Dr. Phillips caught 3 on May 18, 1908, at Rehoboth, where they 

 were locally called "tomcod." These specimens were not preserved. 

 Uerluocius bilinearis (Mitchill). "Whiting." 



Found off the coast in cold weather. I have examined a number 

 of market examples. Said to be an abundant fish at times and 

 valued as food. 



Lophius pisoatorius Linnaus. "Goose Fish." 



Abundant in Delaware Bay, according to the fishermen who know 

 it at Lewes and Rehoboth. I have examined a Delaware Bay example 

 now in the Academy. 



Besides the foregoing, many other marine species are taken, and 

 some very abundantly. Quite a number have been reported to me by 

 various anglers, fishermen or amateur naturalists, and as all have either 

 been found in New Jersey or the coast of Worcester County, Mary- 

 land, it is almost inevitable that they will be added to the fauna of 

 the State. Such species are : Carcharias littoralis, Galeocerdo tigrinus, 

 Mustelus mustelus, Alopias vulpes, Evlamia ohscura, Squalus acanthias, 

 Pristis pectinatus, Raja erinacea, R. Icevis, Dasyatis ceniroura, D. say, 

 Myliohatis freminvillii, Rhinoptera honasus, Opisthonema oglinum. 

 Synodus foetens, Felichthys marintts, Seriola zonata, Caranx hippos, 

 Selene vomer, Seserinus paru, Epinephelus rnorio, Orthopristis chrys- 

 opterus, Lagodon rhomboides, Bairdiella chrysura, Scicenops ocellatus, 

 Leiostomus xanthurus, Pogonias cromis, Alutera schoepfi, Chcetodipterus 

 faber, Chilomycterus schcepfii, Diodon hystrix, Lagocephalus Icevigatus, 

 Spheroides macidatus, Mola mala, Echeneis naucrates, Rissola marginata, 

 Hippoglossus hippoglossus and Melanogrammus cegli finis. 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 17 



NEW CYCAD8 AND CONIFERS FROM THE TRIAS OF PENNSYLVANIA. 

 BY AMOS P. BROWN. 



The Museum of The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia 

 has recently received a number of plant fossils from the Trias of Penn- 

 sylvania, the gift of Mr. George Velder, of Bucks County. They come 

 from a small local quarry, worked from time to time to supply stone for 

 road metal. The quarry is located in the Norristown Shales of Lyman,* 

 the lowermost member of his " New Red," with which is to be correlated 

 the Stockton of Kummel.^ The stone in which the impressions are found 

 is a thin-bedded, dark, shaly sandstone, with numerous small mica 

 flakes, and sufficiently fine-grained to take a good impression of the 

 plants. These are in such good condition that they were evidently 

 imbedded in the mud when fresh; the flexuous character of some of 

 the species is perfectly reproduced, indicating that the mud inVhich 

 the impressions were made was very soft. In some of these impressions 

 a coaly deposit has replaced the cellulose; in others the impression 

 shows a rusty deposit, indicating that a certain amount of pyrites was 

 reduced by the vegetable matter after the plant was imbedded, which 

 has become oxidized to limonite, as the rock has been brought to the 

 surface again by erosion. On the specimens thus far studied, two 

 species of Cycadales and four Coniferae are represented, of wliich four 

 are new to science, two Cycadacese and two Pinacese, 



Class CYCADALES. 

 Family OYOADAOEA. 

 Podozamites formosus sp. nov. Plate I. 



Rachis rather stout, varying in diameter from 5 mm. to 2.5 mm. in a 

 length of 450 mm., marked near the edges of the upper side by the 

 scars of attachment of the leaflets, of which there are 35 on each side 

 in this distance of 450 mm. Leaflets rather distantly spaced on the 

 rachis, extending about at right angles to it, and the basal leaflets 

 somewhat reflexed ; alternate to sub-opposite, nearly sessile ; attached 



1 Summary Final Report, Geol. Surv. Pa., Ill, Part 2, 1895. 

 ' Ann. Rep. State Geol. Surv. New Jersey, 1896. 

 2 




18 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



at intervals of 11 to 13 mm. by the contracted base. Form of leaflets 

 linear, parallel-sided, with the margin thickened and reflexed and 

 the apex obtuse and rounded, rather suddenly contracted at the base 

 where they are attached to the rachis. The length of the leaflets is 

 about 90 mm., width 10 to 11 mm. They are deciduous, leaving an 

 elongated scar measuring 3 mm. longitudinally by 1 mm. transversely 

 on the rachis when they fall; the middle of the scar is marked by a 

 circular spot where the vessels emerge. Fragments of the bare rachis 

 occur marked with the leaf scars and the individual detached leaflets 

 are found on some slabs. The leaflets are strongly parallel nerved, 

 the nerves radiating from the point of attachment to the rachis and 

 branching dichotomously until beyond the contracted base of the 

 leaflet, from which point they are simple and paralled to the end. 

 Those leaflets towards the basal end of the rachis are variously split 

 at the ends along the veins, or the ends of the leaflets are variously 

 divided into two or three lobes with rounded ends and parallel 

 margins, probably due to erosion or perhaps to cutting by insects. 

 The leaflets must have been rather thick, for they leave behind a 

 distinct coaly film, and in some cases the rachis impression shows a 

 still heavier film of coal. Owing to the linear form of the leaflet and 

 the obtuse apex, there seems to be no contraction of the nerves at 

 this point. 

 Zamites velderi sp. nov. Plate II. 



Rachis slender, about 1.5 mm. in diameter, having about 30 leaflets 

 on each side in a length of 150 mm. Leaflets alternate to sub-opposite, 

 sessile; nearly touching at their bases; inserted on the upper side of 

 the rachis by the contracted base, which expands abruptly from the 

 point of attachment to somewhat more than the normal average width 

 of the leaflet, making the base slightly eared; the leaflets point out- 

 ward and forward from the rachis at an angle of 65°. Form of the 

 leaflets linear, parallel margined above the expanded base, and rounded 

 and obtuse at the apex; length 40 to 50 mm., becoming shorter 

 towards the base of the rachis ; width 3.5 to 4.5 mm. ; the edges of the 

 leaflet reflexed and thickened. The leaflets are parallel-nerved, the 

 nerves radiating from the point of attachment to the rachis, but their 

 mode of forking is not well preserved and does not appear to be 

 dichotomous; nerves fine, about six in 1 mm. 



The attachment of the leaflets is at the upper side of the rachis, by a 

 sharply contracted base, and the expanded, eared bases overlap the 

 rachis somewhat, as well as being in contact with each other, but there 

 is no evidence on the one specimen of this species that the leaflets are 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 19 



deciduous, nor were detached leaflets of this species observed on other 

 slabs. The specimen shows the upper part of a leaf, near the apex, 

 but 20 to 30 mm. of this end is broken off. The leaflets become shorter 

 near the apex, one of the last preserved on the specimen, and very 

 near the apex, is 28 mm. long. 



Class CONIFERALES. 



Faimly PINAOE^ 

 Palissya diffusa (Emmons). Plate III. 



This species is represented by several slabs showing parts of branches, 

 one with a length of stem of 200 mm. showing the two sides of the 

 branch on two slabs. The branches on this stem are 6 to 7 on a side 

 in a length of 200 mm.; they attain a length of 130 mm. and the 

 ultimate branchlets extend about 20 mm. on each side of the branches. 

 Some coaly matter along the main stem indicates from its thickness a 

 considerable density for the woody stem. The leaves are crowded on 

 the branches, linear oblong, obtuse at the apex and about 1 by 3 mm. 

 They point forward at an angle of 45° and the branchlets are about 

 4 mm. wide. One of the smaller specimens is figured in Plate III. 



Falissya obtusa sp. nov. Plate IV. 



Small branches varying in thickness from 4.5 to 2 mm. in different 

 specimens; ultimate branchlets simple, very slender, terminations 

 flexuous, branchlets up to 100 mm. long, alternately attached to the 

 small branch. Leaves spreading laterally, apparently two-ranked, 

 rather widely spaced; about 30 on a side in a distance of 80 mm.; 

 they are inserted subalternately, nearly oppositely, on the ultimate 

 branchlets, attached by a short petiole, nearly sessile. The form of 

 the leaf is linear, sharply contracted at the base and obtuse at the apex, 

 which latter character distinguishes this species from P. sphenolepis 

 (Fr. Braun). Their size is 7 mm. in length by 1.5 mm. in width, the 

 midrib is generally distinct. The ultimate branchlets are deciduous, 

 at least in part, as is the case with our living Taxodium distichum (L.) 

 which this species recalls. 



This species appears upon a number of slabs, all representing ter- 

 minal or lateral twigs of a branch; those showing definitely a termina- 

 tion are very flexuous and fernlike. The largest specimen shows 

 parts of a branch 300 mm. long and the spreading branches from the 

 main stem are 300 mm. across; parts of adjacent branches cover the 

 slab as though a limb of considerable size had been imbedded at one 

 time. Upon one of these twigs the side branchlets are simple in that 




20 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



portion towards the trunk of the tree, about 70 to 100 nun. long; these 

 are succeeded towards the apex by compound branchlets 150 to 200 mm. 

 long, the little ultimate branchlets upon which are 20 to 30 mm. long. 

 The entire branch evidently expands from the base and tapers again 

 towards the apex recalling the frond of a fern, as is the case with our 

 "cedar" or arbor vitse of the Pacific coast, Thuya plicata D. Don. 



Cheirolepis muensteri (Schenk). 



This species is represented by some small portions of branches on 

 two of the slabs. While the preservation is very perfect and the char- 

 acters well shown, the surfaces of the specimens exposed are small in 

 each case. The best one shows a portion of a branch with 8 complete 

 ultimate branchlets on one side and fragments of the ultimate branch- 

 lets on the opposite side. These ultimate branchlets are 18-20 mm. 

 long, very thin and flexuous, and tapering from a Httle over 2 mm. to 

 a point. They are densely leafy, the scale-like leaves being about 

 2 mm. long and pointing forward at a sharp angle, closely crowded 

 and decurrent at the base. The tip of the leaf is acuminate, pointing 

 forward as a spine; the midrib is pronounced. The best specimen is 

 on a slab with Palissya obtusa. The tapering of the ultimate branch- 

 lets is due to the leaves' becoming smaller and more closely appressed 

 to the axis of the branchlet towards the tip. 



Cbeirolepis latus sp. nov. Plate V. 



This species is represented on two slabs, one specimen showing the 

 terminal part of a branch. On this specimen the branchlets near the 

 trunk end are 80 mm. long and 25 mm. wide; ovate lanceolate in 

 outline and they stand at 90° from the stem; towards the terminal 

 part they stand at an angle of 80° and they are 60 mm. long, tapering 

 from 15 mm. wide at the base to a point, at the apex of the branchlets, 

 making them linear lanceolate in outline. The branchlets are nearly 

 opposite upon the stem, or sometimes more nearly alternate ; they are 

 deciduous, leaving a scar projecting where they fall. The main stem 

 is marked by strong, acutely pointed scales or leaves, covering these 

 points of attachment of the branchlets; these scales often become 

 reflexed after the branchlets fall and produce the appearance of hooks 

 pointing backward on the stem. The ultimate branchlets are two 

 ranked upon the larger branchlets from the stem above described; 

 they are arranged sub-alternately to nearly oppositely, but they are 

 never truly opposite; they are covered with densely crowded leaves 

 which are spirally arranged in four ranks, closely appressed and^ scale- 

 like, apparently decurrent at the base. 




1911.] natural sciences of philadelphia. 21 



Explanation of Plates I-V. 



Plate I. — -Portion of leaf of Podozamites formosus sp. nov. Natural size. 



Plate II. — Leaf of Zamites velderi sp. nov. Natural size. 



Plate III. — Portion of small branch of Palissya diffusa (Emmons). Natural 

 size. 



Plate IV. — Small branches, bearing ultimate branchlets, of Palissya obtusa 

 sp. nov. Natural size. 



Plate V. — Branch of Cheirolepis latus sp. nov., showing the varying shape of 

 branchlets and the scars left by the fall of former branchlets. Natural size. 




22 proceedings of the academy op [feb., 



February 7. 

 The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M.D., LL.D., in the Chair. 



Forty-five persons present. 



The receipt of papers under the following titles was reported : 

 "New Cycads and Conifers from the Trias of Pennsylvania/' by 



Amos P. Brown (January 18). 



"The Ethno-Botany of the Gosiute Indians/' by Ralph V. Chamber- 



lin (February 6). 



The deaths of Frank Haseltine, July 18, 1910, and of William T 

 Biddle, August 11, 1910, members, were announced. 



The meeting was held in conjunction with the Biological and Micro- 

 scopical Section. 



Mr. Frank J. Keeley gave a summary of the work accomplished 

 by means of the micro-spectroscope. (See paper.) 



Dr. Herbert Fox exhibited specimens of sputum showing the 

 human type of tubercle bacilh, section of a lung of a guinea-pig showing 

 bovine bacilli in a histologic tubercle, an avian tuberculoma with 

 tubercle bacilli in the epithelioid cells, the Trypanosoma lewisi in the 

 blood of a rat, and two forms of the malaria of birds, Proteosoma and 

 Halteridium, showing their relations to the nucleus of the red blood-cell. 

 The first three sections were from the Laboratory of the Pennsylvania 

 Department of Health, the last three from the Laboratory of Com- 

 parative Pathology of the Philadelphia Zoological Society. 



Mr. W. H. Van Sickle spoke of carniverous plants, with illustrative 

 specimens. (No abstract.) 



Mr. Hugo Bilgram referred to the moulting of caterpillars involving 

 the duplication of organs and called attention to illustrative prepara- 

 tions. ^^1 



Mr. Charles S. Boyer exhibited sections of Selenite and Leucite. 



Dr. D. E. Owen showed specimens of Ishnia nervosa, a diatom 

 from the coast of Maine, not before reported from that locality. 



Dr. Thomas S. Stewart exhibited preparations of the blood of a 

 leucsemic patient, the fly and larva of the Congo blood-sucker, and 

 specimens of hydroids. 




1911.] natural sciences of philadelphia. 23 



February 21. 

 Mr. Witmer Stone in the Chair. 



Forty persons present. 



The Publication Committee reported the receipt of papers under 

 the following titles : 



" Micro-Spectroscopic Observations/' by Frank J. Keeley (Feb- 

 ruary 14). 



"Variations in some Jamaican Species of Pleurodonta/' by Amos 

 P. Brown (February 16). 



Dr. Henry Skinner made a communication on some of the 

 world's interesting butterflies. (No abstract.) 



The following were elected members : 

 Mrs. Arthur Biddle. 

 Alexander Brown. 

 William H. Rau. 

 Edward A. Schumann, M.D. 

 Alexander A. Uhle, M.D. 



The following were ordered to be printed : 




24 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



THE ETHNO-BOTANY OF THE GOSIUTE INDIANS. 



BY RALPH V. CHAMBERLIN. 



The home of the Gosiute Indians was formerly all of the generally- 

 desert territory bordering the Great Salt Lake on the south and 

 extending westward into eastern Nevada. To the passing traveller 

 this whole region, before certain favored portions were reclaimed by 

 irrigation, appeared so utterly desolate and uninviting that he must 

 have wondered that any human being should be found there excepting 

 from direst necessity. Yet to the Gosiute this still is, as it long has 

 been, home and native land, and he loves it with a love as ardent as 

 ever burned in the breast of patriot. Away from it he pines; and no 

 thought to him is so harrowing as that the Government may yet force 

 him away to some hated reservation ; no suffering so deep as that he 

 bears when he sees his last remaining foothold steadily encroached 

 upon by stockman and rancher. He knows well the haunt and habits 

 of its living creatures; the familiar note of its every bird has become 

 woven into his very life ; while from gi'andparents he knows the quality 

 of root and leaf and seed of its plants, among which he finds food for 

 every season and for every ill a medicine. Nature's severe parsimony 

 in this land forced him to know minutely and to use to the utmost 

 such resources as she had bestowed. 



The region is broken by a series of mountain ranges running in a 

 generally north and south direction and rising for the most part from 

 one to six thousand feet above the plateau. Between the ranges are 

 level valleys floored with alluvial gravel, sand and silt, washed and 

 accumulated through many ages from the mountains and charged 

 with the alkaline salts forming so marked a characteristic of the 

 country. In the lower central portions of each valley there is typi- 

 cally an alkaline flat or playa where in the winter season water collects 

 in a shallow sheet and converts the soil into a soft clay-like mud that 

 is " bottomless and impassable." In the summer time the flat is dry 

 and hard and often shows white and glistening from an incrustation 

 of the alkaline salts. The mountains are furrowed with many gulches 

 and narrow canyons which here and there in their courses widen into 

 pleasant, meadow-like basins which are locally termed "parks." 



The annual rainfall in the valleys is very low, the precipitation 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 25 



increasing slowly with the altitude up the mountains. The air is 

 naturally excessively dry, the moisture content being, according to 

 Gilbert/ but 45 per cent, of that necessary for saturation, as against 

 69 per cent, in the region between the Mississippi River and the 

 Appalachian Mountains, and the power of evaporation annually 80 

 inches, as against 22 inches over Lake Michigan. From the lower 

 ranges the snow that falls generally evaporates without melting or 

 melts without the formation of definite streams. The heavier snows 

 of the higher ranges feed scattered springs and the small streams 

 running down the canyons and out a varying distance into the valleys, 

 where, often after becoming heavily charged with alkali, they sink 

 into the parched soil and are lost. Many of the springs at the bases 

 of the ranges are brackish or salt and some are warm. 



The vegetation of this arid region, while generally scant, is more 

 abundant than most would expect; and there is no part even of the 

 valWs in the driest times wholly devoid of plants, excepting some of 

 the play as most heavily charged with alkali, and especially the Great 

 Salt Lake Desert. In these places scattered clumps of the several 

 "gi'easewoods" occur about the margins. The vegetation of the 

 valleys and slopes as well as of the hills and of much of the mountain 

 sides presents a monotonous uniformity of appearance due to an 

 immense profusion of individuals of but few species. Those most 

 constant and conspicuous are shrubby and sufifrutescent plants which 

 occur almost to the exclusion of other forms. No trees are found 

 among them. Grasses grow in tufts, but these die out with the 

 advancing season everyw'here excepting in favored recesses and parks 

 of the mountains. Turfing gi-asses, such as are so conspicuous in 

 parts of the plains region east of the Rockies, do not occur, excepting 

 certain salt forms almost worthless for pasturage and confined to the 

 alkaline meadow lands. As a protection against the intense dryness 

 of the region, the characteristic plants above mentioned have mostly 

 reduced leaves with tough cuticle and often a dense covering of hair. 

 The prevalent color of the vegetation is a wearisome gray or dull olive. 

 Only at long intervals is this monotony of color relieved by the bright 

 green of the richer vegetation of the oases about springs and along 

 streams. 



It is impossible for plants of the higher orders to thrive in the 

 strongly alkaline soil in the lower portions of the valleys. The plants 

 gi'owing here belong for the most part especially to the Chenopodiacese, 



' Lake Bonneville, pp. 6 and 7, 1890, . 




26 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



of which one of the best known and most widely distributed is the 

 common greasewood (Sarcobatus vermiculatus) . Of similar habit and 

 abundance is Halostachys occidentalis. Along with these, among other 

 abundant plants of the same family, occur Sueda depressa and espe- 

 cially the peculiar glasswort or samphire {Salicornia herbacea), which 

 in marshy saline ground flourishes over wide areas about the Great 

 Salt Lake and forms, with its brightly colored, fleshy stems, a pleasing 

 feature of the landscape. 



Farther back from the playas are found the chenopods Eurotia 

 lanata, the white sage, the familiar and excessively abundant Grayia 

 polygaloides, the larger spinescent Shepherdia argentea, several species 

 of Atriplex and others. 



Intermingling to some extent with the last-mentioned forms, and 

 beyond the alkaline soil of their preference wholly predominant, is the 

 ever common sage-brush {Artemisia tridentata). This form almost 

 completely usurps the better soil of the valleys and plains and extends 

 far up on the mountain sides. With the sage-brush, over the gravelly 

 foot-hills, are also found Tetradymia canescens, Purshia tridentata and 

 Cowania mexicana. In the swales and other places favored by the 

 drainage Bigdovia is a common plant. The smaller suffrutescent 

 rabbit-brush or torch-weed, Guttierezia, abounds almost everjrwhere 

 and often forms a conspicuous feature over large areas. Among the 

 Artemisias occur here and there the brilliantly flowered cacti, and, 

 during the early summer, such herbaceous forms as the common 

 Phlox longifolia, various Gilias, Phacelias, Lithospermums and Echino- 

 spermums, (Enotheras, Allium, several species of Astragalus, the 

 gaudily flowered Balsamorrhiza sagittata and other Compositse, with 

 later in the season, in most parts, the beautiful sego lily, Calochortus 

 nuttalli. 



The lower moimtains, like the valleys, are chiefly destitute of trees 

 and are overgrown with bush and shrub of kinds occurring on the 

 foot-hills or with these, because of the more exposed situation, more 

 scattered and dwarfed. On the higher mountains, however, coniferous 

 woods occur in often wide tracts. At lower levels the cedar (Juniperus) 

 is everywhere common, as at higher levels is the spruce. The nut 

 pine, of so much importance formerly to the Indians, is abundant in 

 certain ranges, of which should be mentioned especially the Deep 

 Creek Mountains. The mountain mahogany (Cercocarpus ledifolius), 

 also much used in earlier times by the Gosiutes, is widespread. Among 

 herbaceous forms common over the mountains are such as Ferula 

 multifidn, species of Peucedamim, the much prized Carum gairdneri 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 27 



and other Umbellif erae ; Castelleia parviflora and Penstemon glaber, 

 Heuchera and Mitella and other Saxif ragacese ; the larkspurs Del- 

 phinium menziesi and hicolor; Eriogonums and various species of 

 the Compositse. 



In the canyons containing streams of water occurs a comparative 

 wealth of plants not found elsewhere. Of trees and shrubs growing 

 along the stream margins are various species of willow, the quaking 

 aspen, the cottonwood, the birch (Betula occidentalis) , the service-berry 

 or june-berry {Amelanchier alnifolia), the wild or choke-cherry {Primus 

 demissa), haws (Cratcegus rivularis), the kiimikinnic {Cornus stoloni- 

 fera), the elder (Samhucus racemosa), the maple {Acer glabrum), the 

 sumac or ''squaw-berry" {Rhus aromatica) and the wild rose {Rosa 

 calif ornica and nutkana). In the richer soil of canyons and foot-hills 

 the scrub-oak {Quercus undvlatus) grows in dense patches. As an 

 undergrowth over the sides of the canyons the box {Pachystima 

 myrsinites) and Oregon grape are common, while various species of 

 wild-currant {Rihes), Ceanoihus velutinus and other shrubby plants 

 often grow thickly. Of common herbaceous plants growing in favor- 

 able places and season may be mentioned such forms as Erythronium 

 grandiflorum, Fritillaria pudica, Smilacina amplexicaidis and other 

 Liliales; Claytonia, Geranium richardsoni, Wyethia amplexicaulis, 

 Mimulus luteus, Mentha and other Labiatae, Clematis, Aquilegia and 

 others. 



In this ill-favored region large game was not relatively abundant, 

 and the Gosiutes could not be primarily a hunting tribe. They seem 

 to have placed no regular dependence upon forms larger than the 

 abundant hare or "jack-rabbit," although when opportunity was 

 propitious they sometimes undertook the securing of antelope and 

 deer. At one side of Mill Creek Canyon, which is in the Wahsatch 

 Mountains and opens into the Salt Lake Valley, there is a mountain 

 valley which, broad and open at its upper part, narrows toward the 

 canyon into a vertically-sided gorge which terminates abruptly at a 

 precipice of great height. Occasionally the Gosiutes resorted to this 

 richer region beyond their proper territory, and at opportune times 

 surrounding deer and antelope would drive them down the valley to 

 the gorge, where the terrified animals, finding retreat impossible, 

 leaped over the precipice to their deaths. From this the Mill Creek 

 Canyon is known to the Gosiute as Tingoup, which means rock or 

 "precipice trap." Some of the older men also tell of a great "trap" 

 artificially constructed in the Cedar Mountains and formerly kept in 

 repair from year to year. This was a great run of V-shape, the sides 




28 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Fel^. 



of which were walls or fences formed of logs and brush. At the time 

 of a drive all available men and women would make a wide semicircle 

 about antelope or other game that might be in the region and, shouting 

 and continually closing in, would drive the animals to the narrow apex 

 of the run or corral, where hidden hunters easily killed the bewildered 

 game. 



While antelope, deer, bear and other large game formed scarcely 

 more than an occasional source of sustenance among the Gosiutes, the 

 jack-rabbit, exceedingly abundant throughout the region, was highly 

 important to them and was regularly a chief dependence in fall and 

 winter for meat, raiment and blankets. After a hunt the meat was 

 dried and preserved, while the skins were dressed and largely twisted 

 into fur ropes. These fur ropes were then bound together to form 

 blankets or articles of clothing which were very warm and serviceable. 

 It was the custom to hold great rabbit hunts or drives every fall. In 

 these drives the entire tribe engaged and were sometimes joined by 

 neighboring bands. The common procedure was to construct of 

 sage-brush, greasewood or other convenient material a great V-shaped 

 run similar to the one described in the preceding paragraph, but of 

 course with lower and tighter walls. At the apex was a hole leading 

 into an underground passage covered or roofed with a hide. The 

 hares were surrounded and driven into the enclosure by the co-opera- 

 tion of men, women and children. As the hares reached the apex of 

 the enclosure they woidd run into the covered passage, from which 

 they were taken by men stationed for the purpose. Sometimes the 

 hares were merely driven into the heap of brush, where, bewildered 

 and impeded, they were readily killed by means of clubs. 



In the spring and early summer the ground-squirrel or spermophile, 

 everywhere present, was trapped or hunted, originally with bow and 

 arrow. It is still sought as food, as which it is much relished. Cer- 

 tain of the larger desert lizards and some snakes were formerly eaten, 

 but these forms are no longer sought for this purpose, although declared 

 to be good tasting. 



An abundance of food was furnished at times by the black cricket 

 (Anabrus simplex), several species of locusts and the cicada. The 

 crickets often occurred in vast swarms or "armies." They were not 

 only eaten in season, but were dried and preserved for winter use in 

 baskets or other receptacles covered in pits. A favorite method of 

 cooking fresh crickets was to place them in pits lined with hot stones 

 in which they were covered and left until thoroughly roasted. This 

 dish is really very palatable and is compared by the Indians to the 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 29 



shrimp, which they accordingly term the aquatic or "fish cricket." 

 Locusts were likewise eaten and were similarly prepared and pre- 

 served for winter use. The cicada was eaten both fresh and after 

 cooking. Indian children may still often be seen catching these insects, 

 deftly removing head and appendages, and eating the bodies at once 

 with evident relish. 



It was, however, upon the products of the plant kingdom as available 

 in the flora in some of its features outlined above that the Gosiutes 

 placed their chief dependence for food, a fact that led, in the trapper 

 and pioneer days, to their being included under the odious omnibus 

 designation of "diggers." Living close to nature and impelled by 

 strict necessity, they knew the plants of their region with a thorough- 

 ness truly remarkable. From root to fruit they knew the plants in 

 form and color, texture and taste and according to season and habitat. 

 Whatever portion of a plant could serve in any degree for food they 

 had found out, and whatever would poison or injure they had learned 

 to avoid. From plants, too, they obtained most of their remedies, 

 which were many, as well as the materials for making most of their 

 household and other utensils. The education of the Gosiute children 

 in a knowledge of these and other matters important to them in their 

 original state was looked after with great care by the grandparents, 

 as among other Indians, the older men and women, because of their 

 longer experience and consequent more extensive knowledge, being 

 looked up to as the natural teachers and advisers in the tribe; but 

 since the change in mode of life consequent upon the coming of 

 the white race this education is mvich neglected. As a result, the 

 knowledge concerning plants and their properties possessed by the 

 younger generations is much inferior to that of the older men and 

 women now fast passing away. 



The Gosiutes ate the leaves and stems of many plants as "greens" 

 after boiling them in water according to the usual custom. Some 

 members of the Cruciferae and Compositse containing acrid or otherwise 

 distasteful oils or other principles were sometimes taken through a 

 preliminary course of repeated washings to remove the objectionable 

 taste as far as possible, after which they were cooked and eaten as 

 usual. The leaves and petioles of the arrowroot {Balsamorhiza 

 sagittata), termed ku'-si-a-ken-dslp, furnished one of the most used and 

 dependable foods of this type. This is a conspicuous and abundant 

 member of the early-season flora throughout the region. The hastate 

 leaves of this plant, mostly radical and forming a tuft, are eight or 

 nine inches long, with still longer petioles, and the flowers are large. 




30 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



showy heads Hke those of the sunflower. Cymopterus longipes, 

 an-dzup', is an umbellate widely distributed and abundant like the 

 preceding form. It is an early spring plant with tufted leaves of 

 pinnately decompound form and with umbels of yellow flowers. 

 The leaves of this plant in season furnished a standard and favorite 

 dish. The leaves of the closely related Cymopterus montanus were 

 not eaten, though the rootstocks and proximal portions of the petioles 

 were. Among many other plants of which the leaves were eaten may 

 be mentioned Troximon aurantiacum, mu'-tci-gi, native water-cress 

 (Nasturtium), pa'-mu, and Ranunculus aquntilis, the entire plants of 

 the latter form being used. The entire plant of the cancer-root 

 (Aphyllon jasciculatum) , po'-ho-ru, a pale leafless parasite growing 

 upon the roots of the sage-brush arid several species of Eriogonum, 

 was also eaten. The stems of the plumed thistle (Cnicus edulis), 

 po'-gwo, as did also in quantity the lower tender stems and root-stocks 

 of the bulrush (Scirpus validus and maritimus), saip. A plant of 

 primary importance to the Gosiute, because it furnished one of their 

 most valued medicines, but which was also the source of a certain 

 amount of food, is Ferula multifida. Only the youngest shoots, just 

 as they were breaking through the ground, were used as food, the 

 ill-tasting older growths being rejected as unusable. 



Of the plants that furnished food to the Gosiutes in the form of 

 roots, root-stocks, tubers and bulbs, none is popularly so well known 

 as the beautiful Calochortus nuttalli, si'-go, to the Indians, whence our 

 common name sego, which is the State flower of Utah. The bulbs of 

 this lily were formerly gathered as food. Not only were they eaten 

 in season, but they were preserved in quantity for winter use by being 

 dried and placed in pits like those described below. From these pits 

 they were taken as needed. They were most commonly cooked with 

 meat in " stews." When the Mormons first arrived in Utah and the 

 struggle for food was so severe with them, they learned from the In- 

 dians the value of this article, and the digging of the bulbs in the 

 spring did much in many families to stave off starvation. 



Another lily furnishing an edible bulb is Fritillaria pudica, wi'-na-go, 

 a yellow-flowered form blooming in the mountains in early spring. 

 It was much less important, however, than the sego. The Camxissia, 

 pa'si-go, furnished a more important food of this class and in some 

 sections where more available was extensively used. The bulbs of 

 the wild onions {Allium hisceptrum, etc.), kiin'-ga, and those of the 

 common spring beauty {Claytonia caroliniana) , dzi'-na, were also eaten 

 in season, but are said not to have been preserved for winter use. 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 31 



One of the most highly prized of all food plants among the Gosiutes 

 was Carum gairdneri, yamp or yam'-pa, which occurs in abundance in 

 favorable places in the higher mountains. It grows to a height of 

 four feet and bears rather few pinnately compound leaves. The roots 

 are swollen and tuberous. It is these that are eaten. They are sweet 

 and pleasant to the taste and are nutritious from the presence of an 

 abundance of starchy material. The Indians were very fond of it 

 and still frequently gather it. The usual method of cooking the roots 

 was to roast them in pits lined with hot stones in which they were 

 commonly covered and left overnight. Sometimes they were boiled. 

 These roots were cached in large quantities for winter use. 



An industry of the Gosiutes and related tribes very frequently 

 noticed by early travellers was the gathering of the seeds of grasses 

 and of various other plants, a source of food of fundamental importance. 

 While many kinds of plants furnished seeds that were used, by far the 

 greater proportion came from the grasses and members of the Cheno- 

 podiacese. Few grasses occurring at all abundantly did not furnish 

 them seeds, as those mentioned in due order in the later lists will 

 indicate. 



Various chenopods previously mentioned as forming such a pre- 

 dominant and characteristic element of the flora over the valleys and 

 flats furnished a great quantity of nutritious seeds; and in some 

 localities species of Atriplex and Chenopodium in particular, and in wet 

 places Salicornia, appear to have been the chief source of supply. 

 Plants of these genera are so often seen growing thickly over wide 

 areas that they would seem in places to have furnished a food supply 

 limited only by the capacity and inclination of the Indians to harvest 

 it. Especially Atriplex confertifolia, sun, is abundant in the alkaline 

 valleys throughout the region, occurring in enormous profusion in the 

 more favorable places so as to have been much depended upon. An- 

 other species also furnishing seeds is Atriplex truncata, a'-po. The 

 brittlewort or samphire {Salicornia hebracea), o'-ka or pa'-o-ka, pre- 

 viously mentioned, is a low, leafless, herbaceous plant with fleshy 

 jointed stems. It has been compared in appearance to branching 

 coral, to living groves of which the resemblance is accentuated by its 

 presenting colors in many shades of p nk, red and yellow. The plant 

 occurs over extensive areas in marshy ground about the shores of the 

 Great Salt Lake and elsewhere throughout the region, often thickly 

 covering the ground for miles where no other plant is found. The 

 seeds of this plant when made into a meal and cooked are said to have 

 furnished an article tasting like sweet bread, and one of which the 

 Indians were very fond. 




32 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



Of Cruciferse furnishing edible seeds the most important seems to 

 have been the hedge mustard {Sisymbrium canescens), jpoi'-ya or 

 po'-nak, the seeds of which were gathered and used in the ordinar}^ 

 way, but were also, it is said, after being ground up to have been mixed 

 with snow in the winter time and in this form eaten as a sort of refresh- 

 ment. In the borage family the species of Lithospermum, tso'-ni-haip, 

 more especially, furnished a portion of seeds. Seeds of the mints 

 Drachocephalum parviflorum and Lophanthus urticifolius, both known 

 under the name ha'-gwa-nup or toi'-ya-ba-gwa-niip, were also regularly 

 gathered. Especially nutritious and important were the seeds beaten 

 from the heads of a number of species of the Compositse. Among 

 various others may be mentioned the arrowroot (Balsamorhiza 

 sagittata), previously spoken of as furnishing edible leaves, the related 

 Balsamorhiza hookeri, mo^-a-kump, Wyethia amplexicaulis, pi'-a-ken- 

 dslp, Gymnolomia muUiflora, mu'-ta-kai, and the sunflower (Helianthus). 

 The familiar arrow-grass {Triglochin rmiritimum) , pa'-na-wi, and the 

 cat-tail {Typha latifolia), to'-tmp, are also to be included here. The 

 ripe spikes of the latter were gathered and the bristles were burned 

 off, by which process the seeds were freed and were at the same time 

 roasted. 



The seeds of all these-and of other plants were collected in approxi- 

 mately the same way. They were first gathered in large baskets 

 commonly about two and a half feet wide by three feet deep and desig- 

 nated by the name na'-pi-o-sa or sometimes as wu'-tsi-a-nump. These 

 baskets were closely woven and were made tight by means of the gum 

 or pitch of the pine by which the meshes were thoroughly filled, as in 

 the case of water- jugs. The ripe spikes or heads of gi'asses and the 

 seed containing portions of other plants were knocked or swept into 

 this basket {ta'-ni-kum-ma^wu'-ti-ga) by means of a second smaller 

 basket about the size of a three- or four-quart milk pan and known as 

 the da'-ntq^. Often this da'-nlq^ was provided with a handle pro- 

 jecting from one side like the handle of a dipper and along the side 

 opposite the attachment of this handle wuth a flat piece of wood 

 sharpened to an edge like the blade of a knife, its use being to strike 

 against and cut off the fruiting portions of the plants. The large 

 basket might be held in convenient position beneath the taller plants 

 with the left hand, while in the right the smaller one, or da'-niq"^, was 

 used to sweep the tops of the plants ; but more frequently the na'-pi- 

 o-sa was carried beneath the left arm or swung upon the back. When 

 in the latter position a quick sweep of the da'-raq^ was made from right 

 to left across the plants and then up over the left shoulder so as to 

 carry the loosened material into the receptacle. 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 33 



The materials gathered in the baskets in this way were carried to 

 some convenient and suitable place near the encampment and piled 

 upon the ground preparatory to threshing. This operation {man-gop- 

 ma-wu-pain, to beat seed vessels, to thresh) was performed simply 

 by beating thoroughly with sticks or paddles until the chaff, pods and 

 other accessory parts were fully loosened from the seeds. The separa- 

 ^ tion of the seeds from the chaff and other waste parts, the winnowing, 

 was next accomplished by slowly shaking the threshed material from 

 a special winnowing basket or fan held at a height when the wind was 

 blowing which could carry away the chaff while allowing the seeds to 

 fall more directly to the ground or upon skins spread for the purpose 

 {ma-wi'-a-nm, to winnow). The winnowing basket {tl^'-u-wa) was 

 circular or ovate in form and was shallow, being but gently and grad- 

 ually depressed from the margins toward the center. Larger or 

 heavier materials were separated by hand. At the present time the 

 Gosiutes grow wheat and oats in considerable quantity which they 

 thresh and winnow in this primitive way as do various other Indians. 

 The threshing is sometimes done by means of horses driven round and 

 round in a circle over the cut grain spread out on a floor or upon hard 

 ground, the tramping of the horses accomplishing what is more com- 

 monly effected by the pounding with sticks or paddles. The same 

 method is used not only among other Indian tribes in the West, but 

 also among peoples of the Orient. 



After winnowing, the seeds were stored in baskets or other appro- 

 priate receptacles for winter, the containers being covered in pits in 

 the usual way. Before using, the grain commonly was made into a 

 meal by being ground up by hand in the well-known mortar or mill. 

 Among the Gosiutes this was a flat stone of mostly oblong form {pa' -to) 

 upon which the seeds were placed and pulverized by means of a smaller, 

 mostly subcylindrical stone (du'-su), which was rubbed back and forth 

 over the mortar under pressure. This operation in time resulted in 

 wearing out the mill over the middle portion and leaving an elevated 

 rim along each side, which served the better to keep the grain in place. 

 The meal thus obtained was largely used as a porridge or mush or was 

 baked into crude cakes. 



Of high importance to the Gosiutes as food was the fruit of the nut- 

 pine {Pinus monophylla). The expedition to the mountains each fall 

 for gathering pine nuts was one of the great fixed events of the year; 

 and to this day, when so little dependence is placed upon most of the 

 original sources of their food supply, pine nuts (ti'-ba) are gathered 

 regularly in considerable quantity and are kept for use or, to some 




34 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



extent, marketed among the white people in trade. In visiting the 

 regular Gosiute encampments during the pine-nut season one may feel 

 certain to find them in great part deserted. The method of obtaining 

 the nuts is to gather the cones and partially to burn them in. a fire. In 

 this process the nuts are roasted. The nuts are next beaten out of 

 the cones. If further roasting be found necessary, it is carried out by 

 placing the nuts in ovens. The roasted nuts were eaten directly with 

 or without shells or they might be ground up in the mill into a meal. 

 Formerly the nuts, after roasting, were placed in specially made, tall, 

 sack-like baskets in which they were kept in pits or cellars. 



The acorns (ku'-ni-ro-ump) of the Rocky Mountain or scrub-oak 

 (jQuercus undvlata, var.), ku'-ni-up, found over portions of this regions, 

 were used as food in season, but they are said not to have been pre- 

 served for winter use. They were by no means of the high use to the 

 Gosiutes that the fruit of some oaks are to other tribes, such as those 

 of California. 



Of succulent fruits that of the service-berry (Amelanchier alnifolia), 

 ti'-Hm-pi, was probably most important. Not only did it furnish food 

 in season, but it was preserved in large quantities for winter use. 

 For preservation the berries were mashed up, spread out in layers, 

 exposed to the sun and allowed to dry thoroughly. The dried fruit 

 was then placed in pits lined with grass. Immediately over the top 

 of the fruit was placed a layer of the leaves of the sage-brush, the whole 

 b^ing overlaid with cedar bark and covered finally with earth. For 

 use in the winter the dried material was broken up in the mill and then 

 boiled either with or without some kind of meat. To this was often 

 added a portion of certain seed meals said much to improve the flavor 

 and general palatability. The native currants (general name, po'-go- 

 nup) were gathered and preserved in the same way as the service- 

 berries. Among these currants were the black or Missouri currant 

 Ribes aureum, kai'-i-ump, Ribes divaricatum, vn'-sa-po-gump, and 

 Ribes leptanthum and lacustre, ai'-go-po-gump. The fruit of the wild 

 cherry or western choke-cherry (Prunus demissa) was similarly used 

 and preserved. The fruit of the raspberry (RubiLS leucodermis) , 

 tu^-kwun-dau-wi-a or tu'-kwAn-da-mi, and of the strawberry (Fragaria 

 vesca), dn^-ka-pa-ri-iimp, were sought and used in season, but no 

 effort was made to preserve them for later use. The berries of the rose 

 (Rosa calif ornica), tsi'-ump, were also among the foods. 



A number of plants furnished the Gosiutes materials for smoking. 

 Most highly prized among these was the native tobacco plant (Nico- 

 tiana attenuata), pu'-i-ba-u, a plant growing in dry places to a height 




1911,] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 35 



of one or two feet and bearing greenish-white salverform flowers from 

 an inch to an inch and a half long. The leaves, borne on slender 

 petioles and ovate to lanceolate in form, were dried and used as ordinary 

 tobacco. Whether the related Nicotiana quadrivalvis, a native of 

 Oregon and formerly cultivated by Indians from that State eastward 

 as far as the Missouri, w^as formerly grown and used by the Gosiutes 

 is uncertain. Sedum glandvlosum, dn'-ka-ti-vn-a, Vaccinium ccespito- 

 sum, tV-da-kai-mi-ya, and Silene menziesii, yo'-go-ti-wi-ya, also fur- 

 nished leaves which were similarly dried and used as ordinary smoking 

 tobacco. Ranking in importance with the tobacco plant proper was 

 the kinnikinnic (Cornus stolonifera) , the inner bark of which was 

 smoked alone or after mixture with tobacco. 



Of beverages the Gosiutes seem to have had but few originally. A 

 kind of tea made from the leaves of the mint (Mentha canadensis) is 

 said to have been drunk considerably, pleasing the taste of many. The 

 leaves of the shrub in early days sometimes termed the mountain-tea, 

 tin'-ai-hya, were also used for making tea. Another plant termed by 

 the Indians tu'-towr-'pi, but which I have not as yet definitely identified 

 among those known to me in the immediate region, is said to possess a 

 wood from which a good beverage was formerly made. 



There were a number of chewing gums. One was supplied by the 

 gum of the -Douglas spruce (Pseudotsuga douglasii), wan' -go. Also 

 the latex of Asclepias and of Senecio, among others, was dried and 

 converted into a gum. The chewing gum that seems to have been 

 most prized, however, was obtained from the roots of the greater 

 rabbit-brush {Bigelovia douglasi), si'-bit-pi. The inner part of the 

 root having been rejected, pieces of the outer portion were taken into 

 the mouth and chewed, a gummy substance gradually separating out 

 and the more fibrous material being gradually removed. This gum is 

 sweet and pleasant to the taste. Indian children and their elders as 

 well may still often be seen preparing it. 



For the making of baskets, bowls, water-jugs, baby-baskets or 

 cradles, etc., various species of willows, si'-o-pi, such as Salix lasiandra, 

 longifolia and others, supplied a considerable proportion of the 

 material, though, when available, many much preferred the shoots of 

 the Cottonwood, so'-ho-pi, because of their greater toughness. For 

 the frame in the several types of basket work, branches of the service- 

 berry (Amelanchier alnifolia), ti'-um-pi, were used because of their 

 strength and toughness. Water jugs, cooking bowls, seed baskets, 

 winnowing fans and other vessels, designed to hold water or fine 

 material, were made impervious by bein^ coated on the inside or both 




36 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



inside and outside with the gum of the nut-pine. A smooth, glasslike 

 inner surface was often supplied to these vessels, as also and more 

 especially to earthen dishes, by coating them with a mucilage obtained 

 from Malvastrum munroanum, koi'-no-kump. This was secured by 

 mashing or mincing the stems and leaves of the plant in water or simply 

 by drawing it with pressure across the surface to be coated. 



Bows were most commonly made from the wood of the mountain 

 mahogany {Cercocarpus ledifolius), tu'-nump, and arrows from the 

 wood of the service-berry. The wood of the kinnikinnic was sometimes 

 used for the frame-work of snow-shoes. \ 



The winter lodges commonly were made almost entirely from the 

 cedar, wa'-pi. The main structure was built in the usual shape of 

 logs and poles of this plant, the whole being thatched with the smaller 

 branches and the bark, the latter being specifically termed i'-na-iva- 

 tsip. For a covering over the ground within the lodges, the bark and 

 finer branches of the cedar or grasses were used. It was, no doubt, 

 Gosiute lodges that Capt. Stansbury saw in 1849 when travelling 

 through Skull Valley on the west side of the Great Salt Lake. He 

 writes: "In a nook of the mountains, some Indian lodges were seen, 

 which had apparently been finished but a short time. They were 

 constructed in the usual form of cedar poles and logs of considerable 

 size, thatched with bark and branches, and were quite warm and 

 comfortable. The odor of the cedar was sweet and refreshing."^ 



Originally the wood of the sage-brush (Artemisia tridentata), po'-ho-pi, 

 was largely used for securing fire by means of friction when it was 

 available, which was the rule. For the same purpose, among others, 

 the dried roots of the following were used: cedar {wa'-pi), mountain 

 mahogany (tu'-nump) and Shepherdia. 



The Gosiutes obtained empirically considerable knowledge con- 

 cerning the medicinal properties of the plants of this region that was 

 invaluable to them. It may be noted that most of the valuable reme- 

 dies in our own Pharmacopoeia also were first found out and used 

 empirically. Hence it is not so surprising to find that many of the 

 remedies used by the Gosiutes are very closely related to some of those 

 which we have used for the same purposes. But, naturally, super- 

 stition among these Indians played a large part, and we find them 

 often going through a procedure or applying a treatment the value of 

 which must be regarded as wholly fictitious. 



Superstitious beliefs and practices seem to have prevailed especially 



'Expedition to the Great Salt Lake, p. 171. 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 37 



where animals furnished the material used as medicine or otherwise 

 played a part in the treatment of disease. As one of the less involved 

 cases may be mentioned the procedure in securing rattlesnake oil used 

 for rheumatism. The person having secretly found a rattlesnake must 

 address it in some such way as this: "My good brother, you are 

 powerful; I wish you to help me." The rattlesnake must then be 

 killed by a single shot directed unerringly from bow or gim through 

 the head. The body of the snake was then opened and the fat stripped 

 from within the body into a receptacle, after which the body was 

 buried so as to be seen by no one else, as otherwise the virtue of the oil 

 would be destroyed. The same procedure must be repeated with each 

 snake used. Only when this method had been carefully followed 

 out was the oil when subsequently rubbed upon the affected organ 

 supposed to be curatively effective. As a second example may be 

 cited the procedure supposed by many to effect a cure of persistent 

 nose-bleed. The person affected must secretly take some of the blood 

 from his nose to the nest of the red or occidental ant {Pogonomyrmex 

 occidentalis) into an excavation in which it was poured, so that it would 

 be lapped and eaten up by the ants. No dog or other animal must 

 be allowed to touch the blood. If all had been carefully followed out 

 cessation of the hemorrhage was supposed to follow. 



The great majority of the many medicines used by the Gosiutes were 

 products of the plant kingdom, though to a limited number of animal 

 substances and preparations curative properties were attributed. As 

 above stated, some of the medicines were of undoubted service, con- 

 taining active principles identical with or closely related in not a few 

 cases to those used or formerly used by our own practitioners. Often 

 several different medicines might be used for the same ailment or what 

 was regarded as the same, the one selected depending upon season, 

 availability or personal preference. In some cases remedies were 

 combined and given in a mixture, in which case each constituent was 

 supposed to exercise its own particular virtue. Medicines were 

 roughly classified according to their use, the classification being in 

 correspondence with their categories of disease. Thus, medicine for 

 wounds and cuts were classified as i'-a-na-tsu; for bruises and swellings 

 as hai'-gwi-na-tsu; for burns, wai'-a-na-tsu; for coughs and colds, 

 o'-ni-im-tsu; for bowel troubles, koi'-na-tsu; for "worms," wu'-i-na-tsu; 

 for venereal diseases, tim'-hai-na-tsu; for rheumatism, tso'-ni-na-tsu; for 

 the blood, bu'-i-na-tsu; for bladder and kidney troubles, si'-na-tsu, etc. 



In setting fractured bones in the limbs sticks of some convenient 

 wood about an inch in diameter and of appropriate length were used as 




38 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



splints. These were tightly bound in place by means of buckskin 

 cords passed from one splint to the next about which it was wound and 

 then passed to the next and so on round and round the limb in a spiral. 

 A padding between and beneath the splints was supplied by the reed 

 (Phragmites) or other grass. It is said that a paste mixed with this 

 or some other grass, appropriately cut up, was sometimes used, the whole 

 drying or setting between and beneath the splints and forming about the 

 limb a sort of cast that was rigid and effective. In one case of fracture 

 of the leg observed under treatment by the writer, immobilization of 

 the foot was secured by means of a flat piece of wood tied firmly against 

 the sole by means of buckskin strings passing from the splintwork 

 sheath. 



In case of a wound from arrow or gimshot, a paste made by pounding 

 or chewing up the root of the arrowroot (Balsamorhiza sagittata), 

 ku'-si-a-ken-dslp, previously mentioned among the food plants, was 

 applied. If the hemorrhage was severe, a ligature was applied on 

 the central or proximal side where possible. A tea made by twisting 

 the juice from the roots of Mitella or related forms {to'-sa-na-tsu) 

 was then given internally, the effect being to hasten elimination 

 and purging. Regarded as considerably more efficacious than the 

 arrowroot was the root of Ferula midtifida, to'-dzup, which is strong 

 and rank in taste and smell. It was, and still is, used in essentially 

 the same way as the arrowroot, upon wounds, cuts or bruises where 

 the skin was broken. In case of compound fracture this was the 

 application made to the wound in preference to all others. The root 

 for use, as observed by the author, was first minced with a knife and 

 thoroughly ground to a pulp in a mortar or by crushing vipon a clean 

 smooth stone by means of another used as a pestle. The paste was 

 then smeared over the wound and bound in place. It was used in 

 dressing the wound throughout the progress of healing. It seems 

 especially to have been relied upon where there was infection or 

 formation of pus. Among other plants furnishing preparations used 

 on wounds, cuts or sores were Cnicus eatoni, ai'-wa-bo-gup, and Gilia. 



Among remedies supposed to have virtue in taking down swelling 

 due to bruising or other causes may be mentioned first the roots of 

 Valeriana edvlis, which were pounded into a pulp and rubbed on 

 externally. Another was made by steeping the roots of Wyethia 

 amplexicavlis, pi'-a^ken-dztp. The flax {Linum perenne) furnished a 

 preparation used in the same way, as did also the roots of Mentzelia 

 IcBvicavlis among various others. One informant stated that cases 

 of persistent oedema in the limbs were sometimes treated as follows. 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 39 



By means of a sharp flint the affected member was cut or gashed in 

 numerous places over the surface from one end to the other and 

 allowed to bleed freely. Next day the limb was ligatured proximally 

 and a vein was located in a favorable position and opened by means 

 of a pointed stick. The blood was allowed to flow from the vein for 

 some time, after which the wound was stopped and the entire limb then 

 covered with a salve made from the roots of Valeriana or that con- 

 stituting some other hai'-gwi-na-tsu, and thoroughly bandaged. 



For the treatment of burns the most prized remedy was furnished 

 by Spircea ccBspitosa, a shrubby prostrate plant forming dense mats 

 over limestone rocks and clefts in the canyons. The plant has fleshy 

 roots and short matted branches upon which silky villous leaves are 

 arranged in dense rosulate clusters. The roots after being cleaned 

 and freed of their epidermis by means of a knife were boiled in water 

 until soft and readily reducible to a pulpy mass. This is then ready 

 for use, the wet, pulpy mass being smeared directly in a layer over the 

 burned part and bandaged in place. On fresh burns the pulp or salve 

 was renewed usually four times each day. The remedy is much 

 valued and in cases observed by the author seemed efficacious. A 

 moss (Bryum) is said by some also to have been used on burns. For 

 the same purpose the green wood of the mountain mahogany was also 

 sometimes charred, reduced to powder and, after moistening with 

 water, applied to the wound. 



A number of plants furnished materials used as remedies for rheuma- 

 tism. Such was Valeriana, toi'-yor-lM-um-ba-ga, above mentioned, the 

 roots of which are pounded up and rubbed on the affected parts. The 

 common yarrow (Achilleia millefolium), watY -go-gip, was also haxidaged 

 about affected joints, as were also the steeped leaves of the common 

 sage-brush, po'-ho-bi. 



Of remedies used for disorders of the alimentary tract there were 

 many. A remedy much valued for intestinal disorders of babies and 

 infants, but also used with adults, often as a secondary treatment in 

 cases of accidents or other bodily trouble, was obtained from the roots 

 of several of the Saxifragacese, especially Heuchera, wi'-gun-dza, and 

 Mitella, pi'-a-nank. The medicine is purgative in action (koi'-na-tsu). 

 Because of the white color of the roots the preparation is commonly 

 known as to'-sa-na-tsu, meaning "white medicine." It was given in 

 the form of a decoction or tea. Another similar remedy, used especially 

 with children, was prepared from Arenaria triflora, var. obtusa. The 

 wood of the choke-cherry (Prunus demissa), to'-o-nump, was some- 

 times scraped and from the scrapings a decoction made which was 




40 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



also used in bowel disorder, in children more especially. In some 

 cases an emetic was given to relieve pain and effect restoration. For 

 this purpose the root of Silene midticaidis was said to have been used, 

 this being mashed or ground up and drunk in warm water. Another 

 emetic was prepared from the poison sego {Zygadenus nuttalli), ta'-bt- 

 tci-gop. 



In cases where a person was thought to be suffering from worms or 

 other intestinal parasites the gum or resin from Pinus monophylla, 

 wan'-go, was sometimes put in boiling water and drunk as hot as 

 could be borne. 



The roots of Peucedanum graveolens, etc., i'-jaip, were used as a 

 medicine called from the high value placed upon it jpi'-a-na-tsu, a word 

 meaning "great medicine." This was used for affections of the throat 

 by being reduced to a pulp and applied directly by means of a finger. 

 Sometimes a string w^as tied to a piece of the root and the latter then 

 swallowed to be again draw^n back out over the affected part by means 

 of the string. A decoction was also made from the root. 



For colds, coughs and bronchial affections a favorite remedy was 

 prepared from the leaves of the cedar (Juniperiis) , wa'-pi. The 

 leaves were boiled in water, the decoction being drunk hot. During 

 the winter season in families w^here there are children one is still likely 

 to find a pot of cedar tea kept boiling over the fire. A remedy for 

 coughs and the colds and the accompanying headaches, etc., was 

 prepared by some by making a decoction of cedar and sage-brush 

 leaves in a tea from Mentha canaderisis, pa'-gwo-nup. A medicine used 

 for biliousness wdth severe cold was a mixture of pi'-a-na-tsu, pre- 

 viously mentioned, a laxative or koi'-na-tsu, and the resin of the pine, 

 a decoction of the three being prepared and drunk at intervals. 



A tea prepared from the roots of Ldthospermum pilosum and longi- 

 florum tso'-ni-haip, was much used for kidney trouble. It seems to be 

 a strong diuretic. The author has seen it used for this purpose also 

 among the Utes. It is regarded as very effective. 



The Gosiutes had a considerable number of remedies severally 

 regarded as efficacious in vaiying degi'ees in the curing of venereal 

 diseases and affections in general of the s6xual organs. They are 

 termed tlm'-bai-na-tsu. Among plants furnishing such remedies may 

 be mentioned Parnassia fimbriata, Spiro&a millefolium and Eriogonum 

 ovalifolium. The application was made for the most part externally 

 in the form of a wash or as a preparation in a poultice. 



A favorite remedy in cases of fever was furnished by the leaves of 

 the common sage-brush (Artemisia tridentata) , po'-ho-hi. This plant 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 41 



was in early days and in many settlements still is similarly much used 

 among the white people of this region. Indeed, among many it is 

 regarded almost as a panacea, being used for coughs and colds, rheuma- 

 tism and other ailiments, as well as for fevers, the medicine sometimes 

 being applied externally and sometimes taken internally, depending 

 upon the affection. In intermittent fevers, the white sage {Eurotia 

 lanata), tci'-ccp, was considerably used. 



Some Features of Word Formation in the Gosiute Language. 



The primary stems of the Gosiute language are mostly verbal in 

 character. They are monosyllabic in form and are largely further 

 reducible to significant elementary sounds. The vowel sounds where 

 capable of dissociation in this way represent general modes of motion 

 which are modified or conditioned in definite ways by combination 

 with consonants placed in the initial position. Hence, leaving aside 

 secondary and exotic factors, the vital, active part of the language is 

 found to be especially vivid. The verbs largely define themselves, 

 and it is probably for this reason that it has seemed necessary for each 

 verb or verbal combination to be set off or introduced by a general 

 causal particle, ma. 



In the composition of the primary stems to form secondary com- 

 binations and words, the more specific particles come first, those 

 expressing the more general notions being final; i. e., the first syllables 

 control and restrict the final ones. The combination is thus such as 

 clearly to suggest or to define the action or conception to be symbolized 

 or represented. In verbs the final syllable in the indefinite form is 

 one that signifies some general action or mode of action. N, -in or 

 the more definite -kin are such endings representing in effect, making, 

 producing or simply acting or doing; no indicates general motion or 

 transportation, etc. By means of such endings nouns are readily 

 converted into verbs. When a stem representing a noun in the 

 objective or other relation is incorporated, it occupies the initial 

 position in the verbal combination. Some simple examples of verb 

 formation follow : 



a, na, indicates movement or extension out or away from in a straight 

 line, projection, etc. 



a^-pi {a'-vi, ha'-bi), a secondary root derived from the preceding 

 root -f- bi, (vi), meaning primarily to accumulate, to rest upon, 

 etc. Hence a'-pi means to rest or lie upon while extended, to 

 stretch out upon, to lie down. Used separately in speaking of 

 persons the form of the verb becomes ha'-vi-do. 




42 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



pa'-ha-hi-no, to swim. This word is composed of pa, water, + ha' -hi, 

 to lie or stretch out (as indicated above), + no, indicating motion. 



ka'-ri-no, to ride sitting down. Derived from ka'-ri-, to sit down, + 

 no, indicating locomotion as in the preceding combination. Ap- 

 plied to riding in train, wagon, etc., in a general way. 



pun'-ga-ri-no, to ride horseback. From pun'-go, horse, + ka'-ri-no, 

 the preceding word. 



ai'-no, to lope. From ai, a root meaning to leap, to spring or to 

 rebound, + nx), indicating locomotion as in the preceding words. 



pan'-go-ln, to dive. From pa, water, + go, a root meaning to pene- 

 trate, etc., + in. 



ki'-wa-tso-km, to cut with scissors. From -gi'-wa, to bite or cut 

 apart {gi, bite or cut in two, + wa, to press aside or apart, to 

 separate), + tso, squeeze or press together, + kin, explained 

 previously. 



gwa'-ci-kln, to braid. From gwa'-ci, tail, braid, etc., + k/tn, to make, 

 etc. 



ha'-hu-ln, to smoke (as a cigarette). From ha'-u, tobacco, + in, 

 explained above. 



Nouns, with which we are here chiefly concerned, are readily derived 

 from verbs and verbal combinations through the use of suffixes which, 

 like the verbal endings previously mentioned, designate general or 

 class ideas. Verbs are sometimes employed as nouns without the use 

 of such suffixes. Nouns compounded of simpler nouns or of other 

 words are frequent. In the plant names hereafter given it will be seen 

 that one noun in such compounds frequently bears a possessive or 

 adjectival relation to the principal. In such cases this relation is 

 indicated by the addition of w or of m or by using the particle un or um 

 more discretely. For example: 



ni'-am, my, mine. From ni'-a, 1, + m. 



ai'-tin-dain-ti, bore of a gun. From ai'-ti, gun, + n, + dain'-ii, hole. 



Tim'-pln-o-gwut, Provo River. From tim'-pi, stone, + n, + o'-gwut, 



river. 

 Ai'-Mm-pa, Deep Creek. From ai'-ba, clay, + w, + pa, water, 



stream; i. e., '' clay water." 

 to'-go-un-go-na. Painted cup (Castilleia). From to'-go-a, snake, + 



un, + gu'-na, fire; i. e., ''snake fire." 



The more important noun suffixes occurring in plant names are 

 indicated below in order. 



1. tci, tsi {tc, ts). A common ending in the names of living things 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 43 



or of the organs or parts of such. In Gosiute it is more frequent in 

 animal names. It also occurs in plant names, but with nothing like 

 the frequency to be noted in the Ute, where it is the commonest ending. 

 Examples : 



po'-ni-Ms, skunk. 

 yu'niX-tsi, badger. 

 mu'-tu-nats, humming bird. 

 yu'-ro-gots, Rocky Mountain jay. 

 du'-l-tci, child, baby. 

 ndn'-kt-tci, ear (also as ndnf-kHs). 

 deutc, brother-in-law. 

 su'-go-pu-tsi, old man. 

 o'-tci, grandson. 



See further under 3. 



2. bi. Indicates a living thing or part ot a living thing. In the 

 former case commonly followed by the ending indicated under 1. as 

 represented below under 3. Examples: 



bi, the heart. 



nam'-pi, foot. From na, indicating support or bottom part, -|- m, 



+ bi. 

 'pam'-'pi, head. From pa, top, summit, -1- w, -H bi. 

 tlmf-jri, mouth. From ti, referring to teeth or a cutting object, + m, 



+ bi. 

 mam'-bi, hand. 

 mo'-bi, nose. From mo, indicating protrusion, extension, etc., + bi. 



3. bV-tci, bUc. The preceding stem + the animate ending tci{tc). 

 Indicates a living individual or something regarded as such. Very 

 common in animal names, but only occasional in those of plants. 

 Examples : 



i'-a-bltc, gopher. 

 mom'-bUc, owl. 

 tu'-ko-bltc, wildcat. 

 we-gom-bltc, turkey buzzard. 

 pdfi'wUc, fish. 



4. iLj) (Ip, -p). One of the commonest endings in plant names. As 

 a noun ending it indicates substance or material or simply thing or 

 object; and, hence, in plant names it is often the practical equivalent 

 of ''plant." In some plant names, in fact, the ending is clearly a 




44 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



modification of o'-jpi, meaning wood, tree or plant, rather than the 

 pure suffix Up. 



The regular suffix is mostly added to verbs, though it may also under 

 certain conditions be added to nouns. It is also added to verbs to 

 indicate completion of an action forming one past tense or giving a 

 participial effect. Examples : 



tV-kUp, food. From di'-ka-kln, to eat, + up. 



pa'-gtn-up, cloud. From pa'-gin, to make or produce water, + up. 



wai'-up, charcoal. From wai'-Mn, to burn, + up. 



go'-up, enclosure, corral, trap, snare, etc. From go, a root in its most 



frequent sense meaning to surround or to enclose, + up. 

 da'-pi-Hp, socks, hose. From da'-pi, foot, + up. 



5. ump. Composed of the possessive um{m) + up{p). The pos- 

 sessive would seem to belong primarily to a preceding noun, but the 

 combination has acquired the character of a largely integral suffix 

 with a definite and peculiar force. It conveys usually the idea of a 

 material used for some purpose. It occurs frequently in the names 

 of plants or of plant products used for food. In some plant names, 

 etc., it is likely the representative of the combination um + ha, 

 meaning seed, or + hi, rather than of the combination first indicated 

 above. Examples : 



tsi'-ump, rose berry. From tsi'-o-pi, the rose {i. e., the plant), + Ump; 



i. e., the part of the plant used for food, the fruit. 

 po'-gump, currant (the berry). 

 dn'-ka-ti-wi-ump, the sumac berries (fruit of Rhus), 

 so'-ko-ri-ump, the Oregon grape (the entire plant. From so'-ko-ri, 



deer, + iXmp, the plant serving as food for the deer. 

 wi'-ump, haws. 



6. na. Used mostly as a prefix to designate a support, source, 

 means or instrument. Examples : 



na'-dzi-ta, cane, walking-stick or staff. From na + dsi'-ta, a stick oi- 



rod for thrusting, etc, 

 na'-tse-ya, handle (as of a tea-cup). From na + tse^-ya, to carry, 

 na'-gwa-na, perfume. From na + gwa'-nor-kln, to give out a smell or 



odor. 

 rm'-di-ko, bait. From na + di'-ka-Mn, to eat, -|- go, to enclose, to 



snare. 

 na'-dsor-to-wi, shell thrower (of a gun). From na + dsa'-to, to draw 



or jerk out, -I- wi, iron or thing of iron. 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 45 



7. nump. A combination of na and -Amp, the two preceding suffixes. 

 It is a very common noun ending used to indicate means or instrument. 

 Examples : 



ti'-ki-rvump, table. From di'-ka-kin, to eat, + nump. 

 ha'-r-ir-nump, chair. From ka'-ri-do, to sit down, + nump. 

 go'-to-nump, stove. From ma-go'-to, to heat, to make hot, to burn, 



+ nump. 

 tso'-ii-gi-nump, pillow. From tso, particle referring to the hezd, + 



ma-ri'-gi, to lay or place upon, + nump. 

 go'-ti-nump, spear. From mxi-go'-tin, to stick or thrust into, + nump. 



Some words recurring frequently in plant names may next be 

 listed. In compounds, of course, these words do not occur as a rule 

 in their entirety, but are represented by one or more of the more 

 significant syllables. 



As examples of words frequently entering into names to indicate a 

 color characteristic the following may be listed. The form within 

 parentheses represents the syllables ordinarily appearing in compounds. 



to'-si-hlt{to-sa-) , white, 



tu'-o-hlt {to), black. 



an'-ka-bit (dnka), red. 



pu'-i-bit {pui), green. 



o'-a-hU (oa), yellow. 



on'-ti-gait (onti), roan, etc. 



ku'-tsip (ku-tsi), ashen, gray, etc. Meaning primarily ashes and used 

 in plant names especially to indicate the ashen or grizzly appear- 

 ance due to thick growths of pubescence, etc. 



Words indicating habitat occur with especial frequency in plant 

 names. 



ku'-tslp. In addition to the force above explained, this word, in 



combination, may also indicate growth as being in dry soil, etc. 

 pa, water. 



tlm-pi {tlm-pi, tin, ti), rock. 

 toi'-ya-bi (toi-ya), mountain. 

 toi'-ya-wimt, canyon. 



The two following are very frequent in names of plants where it is 

 desired to indicate size, especially where there are several closely 

 related forms to be discriminated and size represents a prominent 

 difference. 




46 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



'pi'-'dj) (pi-a, pi), large, tall. 



ti'-ai-qu-tsi, ti'du-tsi {ti-a, tl^da), small, short, etc. 



Naturally we find in plant names syllables representing or indicating 

 some particular part or feature of the plant. 



ha, hi-a, seed, fruit. 



gup, pod, seed vessel, fruit. 



o'-pi, wood. 



a'-ka, si'-a-ka, stem, shoot, etc. 



si'-gi, leaf. 



wa'-tslp, bark. 



ai'-go-gunt, thorn. 



ai'-di-wls, wV-sa, spine, prickle. 



A few of the more frequently occurring words used in plant names 

 to indicate relations or characters other than those indicated above 

 are these : 



na'-tsu, medicine. 



I'-ca, wolf, and, secondarily, false. 



wu'-da, bear. 



pun' -go, horse. 



tai'-ho, white-man, this being frequent in names more recently devised 



to indicate forms introduced into the region since the advent of 



the whites. 

 The more general terms used by the Gosiutes to indicate plant 

 groups were largely and primarily indicative of habitat, the ecological 

 relations seeming most obtrusive to their minds. Next to the ecologi- 

 cal relations, the economic seemed to have influence and we find 

 groupings based upon uses in medicine and as foods. As examples 

 of names applied to plants according to habitat may be mentioned 

 the following. 



pa'-hu-lp, applied to any plant floating upon water. From pa, water, 

 + ho{po), root, indicating position upon surface of, floating, 

 rising, etc., + -up or possibly o'-pi. 



tlm'-bo-ip, applied to any plant growing upon or over rocks, etc. 

 From tlm, referring to rock as above explained, + bo, as in the 

 preceding, + -up. 



toi'-ya-da-tslp, applied to a shrub growing on mountain or in canyon. 



pan'-dirsip, applied to a plant growing submerged in water. From 

 pan, aquatic, + dX'-si^, meaning to penetrate or thrust into or 

 beneath, + -Up. It is also applied to animals, such as water- 

 beetles, living beneath water. 




1911.] natural sciences of philadelphia. 47 



Catalogue and Vocabulary. 



In the case of the great majority of the plants, dealt with in these 

 pages, the Gosiute names have been tested repeatedly in order, so far 

 as possible, to eliminate errors and to determine the standard and 

 pure as distinguished from the occasional and extraneous. The work 

 has been carried on largely as recreation at different seasons of the 

 year ; and at these various times tests have been made through various 

 better informed men and women of the Skull Valley division of the 

 tribe, these being consulted both singly and in groups. However, 

 there remains a certain number of species the names and uses of which 

 I have not as yet been able to test in a way wholly satisfactory to 

 myself. 



The Gosiute plant names, like our own popular ones, with which 

 they are properly to be compared, are frequently generic rather than 

 specific in compass and, naturally, may sometimes apply to species 

 lying in technically different though usually closely allied genera. In 

 some cases they are the practical equivalents of popular English names, 

 while in others they are distinctly different in scope from these or may 

 be without any name in our' language at all corresponding, for a large 

 proportion of the native plants in the West are as yet without popular 

 designations of any sort. It often happens that one single kind of 

 plant is known under two or more names to the Gosiutes. In such 

 cases one name is commonly more comprehensive than the other and 

 applicable likewise to various other related or supposedly related 

 forms, while the other may be strictly applicable only to the species 

 under consideration. Then, again, the same plant may be regarded 

 from different points of view, classed on correspondingly different 

 bases, and so come to be designated under several class or generic 

 names indicating these several relations. Thus, it may be regarded 

 as to its habitat, as to its structure or appearance, as to its service to 

 man or animal as food, or as medicine, etc. It may bear a different 

 name indicative of each of these relations in addition to that which 

 may be regarded as in a measure specific and restricted to it alone. 

 The restriction in use of a name depends much upon the commonness 

 or importnce of the plant, there being different names even for closely 

 related species in many cases — proportionately much more numerous 

 than is the rule among our own people. 



In ordinary conversation among the Gosiutes a long plant name may 

 frequently be shortened through the omission or dropping out of one 

 or more syllables. Such abbreviations may result in changes in the 

 remaining syllables thus brought into different relations to each other 




48 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



through the operation of definite phonetic laws, as of rhythm in quan- 

 tity, etc., which cannot be here considered. There may thus result 

 from one original name several current forms. 



The values of the letters used in recording Gosiute words in the 

 present paper are approximately those of the Smithsonian alphabet 

 and are essentially as follows: 



a is pronounced as in far or as in the German lachen. 



a is sounded like a in the English word fat, etc. 



e is pronounced as in they or as in the German Dehnung. 



e is pronounced as in then or as in the German denn. 



i is pronounced as in pique or as in the German ihn. 



I is sounded as in pit or as in the German dick. 



o is pronounced as in vote or as in the German Bogen. 



u is pronounced as in rule or as in the German du. 



A is pronounced as in but. 



ii is pronounced as in the German miide or as u in the French lune. 



ai is sounded as in the German Kaiser or as i in bite. 



oi is pronounced as in boil. 



c is pronounced like sh in shall, etc. 



d, f, h, k, 1, m, n, p, r, s, t, y and z are given their ordinary sounds 

 in English. 



g is pronounced as in gig or as in the German geben. 



ii is pronounced like ng in sing. 



q is pronounced like ch in German lachen, Dach, etc, 



dj is pronounced like j in judge, 



tc is pronounced like ch in church or like c in the Italian cielo. 



Nasalized vowels are indicated by a small superior n; thus a**, etc. 



Attention should be called to the essential equivalence and, within 

 the limits marked by certain phonetic rules, the interchangeability 

 (1) of k and g; (2) of t, d, and r; and, less completely, (3) of n and m. 

 Of the letters or sounds of the second group, t is most commonly 

 initial in position and r and d internal. 



Latin or Scientific Names with Popular and Gosiute 

 Equivalents, 



Acer glabrum Torr. Maple, 

 pa'-go-ni-tip, 



[Probably from pa, water, + 



Abies menziesii Lindl, Balsam, 

 sa'-nan-go-bi. 



[sa-na-, gum, pitch, etc., + 



ku'-ni-ilp, oak.] | an'-go-hi, spruce.] 




1911.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



49 



Abronia fragrans Nutt. Sand 

 Puff. 

 ta'-ka-d!-da-rup. 

 Achillea millefolium L. Yarrow, 

 wan'-go-glp. 



Used commonly among the 

 Gosiutes in the form of a 

 tea for biliousness, head- 

 ache, etc. Also applied 

 externally for rheumatism 

 and sometimes on bruises. 

 Aconitum fischeri, etc. Monks- 

 hood; Aconite, 

 f-ca-bo-gop. 

 [Probably from V-ca, wolf, 

 and secondarily, deceptive, 

 false, baneful, + bo-gop, 

 fruit, berry, the name re- 

 ferring to poisonous prop- 

 erties as a result of which 

 horses eating it sometimes 

 die.] 

 Acorn. 



ku'-ni-ro-ump. 



[ku'-ni-up, oak, + ro + up.] 

 See further under Quercus. 

 Actcea spicata L. Baneberry. 



toi'-ya-ba-gwo-no-gip. 

 Agaricus sp. Mushroom. 



so'-ai-tiimp. 

 Agropyrum repens Beauv. Blue- 

 joint, 

 o'-ro-rop. 

 o'-ro. 

 o'-do. 

 The seeds of this grass were 

 among those formerly used 

 as food. 

 Allium bisceptrum Watson and 

 acuminatum Hook. Wild 

 Onion. 



kiin'-ga. 



Bulbs eaten in spring and 

 early summer. Not pre- 

 served for later use. 

 Alnu^ incana Willd. Alder. 



u'-gu-dzup. 

 Alopecurus aristulatus Mx. Fox- 

 tail grass, 

 tf-so-nlp. 



it- + so' -nip, grass. 

 Amarantus sp. Amaranth, 

 ats. 



Seeds formerly eaten. Con- 

 stituted an important 

 source of food. 

 Ambrosia psilostachya DC. Rag- 

 weed, 

 tu'-ro-sip. 



[The name seems to mean 

 black sap; tu'-o-bit, tu'-ro- 

 vi, black, + sip, sap, 

 juice, etc.] 

 Occasionally used as a remedy 

 for sore eyes. For this 

 purpose the leaves were 

 steeped in hot water and 

 bandaged over the affected 

 organ. The same name 

 was often applied to Iva 

 axilaris, q. vid. 

 Amelanchier alnifolia Nutt. Ser- 

 vice-berry ; June-berry, 

 ti'-um-pi. 

 The berries formed a very 

 important source of food 

 among the Gosiutes, being 

 used both in season and 

 preserved in large quan- 

 tities for winter use. For 

 preservation the berries 

 were mashed and dried as 




50 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Feb., 



previously described. If 

 the berrying grounds were 

 not too far distant from 

 the winter encampment, 

 the dried berries were 

 cached on the spot to be 

 obtained during the winter 

 as needed or to be trans- 

 ported at a more favorable 

 time to a more accessible 

 . position. 



This plant also furnished the 

 material preferred for ar- 

 rows and for the framework 

 of cradles and other forms 

 of basketry. 

 Amsinckia tesselata. . 

 ku'-hwa. 

 tso'-hamp. 



Seeds formerly eaten. 

 Anaphalis margaritacea Benth. 

 and Hook. Everlasting, 

 mo'-ha-gup. 

 Androsace septentrionalis L. 

 ? ka'-na. 

 Cf . Lewisia. 

 Anemone mvltifida Poir. Wind- 

 flower, 

 toi'-y a-mo-ha-gup . 

 Angelica pinnata Watson. 

 pa'-si-gwtip. 



Occasionally spoken of as 

 ku'-i-gwa-nlXp, but incor- 

 rectly so, according to best 

 informed Indians. 

 Roots used as medicine. 

 Antennaria dioica Gaertn. Ever- 

 lasting, 

 toi'-ya-na-tsu. 



[toi'-ya-bi, mountain, + rm'- 

 tsu, medicine.] 



?ku'-yi-ko-nup. 



ku'-yi-gwa-nup. 



Said by one informant to 

 have been used in cases 

 of snow-blindness, being 

 steeped in water and ban- 

 daged over the eyes. The 

 first name is probably not 

 wholly specific. 

 Aphyllon fasaicvlatum T. and G. 

 Cancer-root. 



po'-ho-ru. 



\jpo'-ho-bi, sage-brush, + ru, 



ru'a, son.] 

 The name is given in refer- 

 ence to the fact that this 

 plant is commonly found 

 growing parasitically upon 

 the roots of the sage-brush; 

 hence, "son of the sage- 

 brush." 



The entire plant was some- 

 times eaten. 



Aplopappus macronema Gray and 

 parryi Gray. 

 tIm'-bi-mo-a-gwa-n<ip. 

 Aplopappus suffruticosus Gray 

 (sometimes also macro- 

 nema, the preceding form), 

 toi'-ya-ba-hwiji, 

 toi'-ya-ba-o-pi. 



The name means in effect 

 simply "mountain plant," 

 and is not wholly specific. 

 Apocynum androsaemifolium L. 

 Dogbane; Indian Hemp, 

 wu'-da-wa-nup . 



[wu'-da, bear, -|- wa'-nup, 

 rope, string, fiber, etc., the 

 name referring to the 




1911.1 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



51 



strong fiber obtainable 

 from this plant.] 

 Fiber of hemp obtained from. 

 Cf. name Indian Hemp. 

 Aquilegia coerulea James. Colum- 

 bine. 



pa'-wa-gump. 



pa'-o-gum-pi. 



Informants stated that plant 

 furnished a medicine that 

 acted on the heart. Seeds 

 were sometimes chewed as 

 medicine; and a tea made 

 from the roots was used 

 for abdominal pains and 

 when one was "sick all 

 over," as it was broadly- 

 put. 



Arabis holboelli Hornem. Rock 

 Cress, 

 si'-bo-i-tip. 



Cf . Cleome lutez, to which the 

 name is also applied. 

 Arabis retrofracta Grah. Rock 

 Cress, 

 pi'-a-poi-na. 

 pi'-a-si-bo-i-up. 



\jn'-up, big, large, + si'-bo- 

 i-Hp.] 

 Arctium lappa L. Burdock, 

 mu'-pa-tai-gi-nup. 



The burdock is an introduced 

 plant, and the name above 

 given is used only by a 

 limited portion of the Gos- 

 iutes, having been formed 

 rather recently. 

 Arenaria biflora. Sandwort, 

 tim'-bo-ip. 

 This is a very general term 



indicative of habitat as 

 previously explained. 

 Arenaria congesta Nutt. Sand- 

 wort. 

 Classed as a koi'-na-tsu, or 

 bowel medicine. 

 Arenaria triflora var. obtusa Wat- 

 son. Sandwort, 

 wi'-dcan-gwo-dcop. 



[v)i^-dca, pine-hen, + n, + 

 gwo'-dcop.] 

 toi'-yaii-tlm-ba-dzap. 



Like the preceding, classed 

 as a koi'-na-tsu. 

 Argemone mexicana var. hispida 

 Gray. Prickly Poppy, 

 pa'ra-tl-tsln-bo-gop . 

 toi'yan-bo-gop. 



Apparently a somewhat gen- 

 eral descriptive term., 

 Aristida purpurea Nutt. Triple- 

 awned Grass, 

 yo'-nlp. 

 o'-gwip. 

 toi'ya-o-gwip. 



{toi'ya-bi, mountain, + 

 o'gwlp.] 

 Arnica cordifolia Hook. 



ta'ni-kump. 

 Arnica parryi Gray, 

 mo'ha-gup. 

 Cf. Anaphalis. 

 Artemisia biennis Willd. 

 pi'a-wa-da. 



[pi'iXp + wa'da.] 

 wa'da. 



on'tlm-pi-awa. 

 on'tlm-pi-a-wa-da. 



[on'tlm, brown, roan, + pi'a- 



wa-da.] 

 The seeds formerly exten- 




52 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Feb.. 



sively gathered and used 

 as food. 

 Artemisia discolor Dougl. and 

 trifida Nutt. 

 ku'tsi-pa-wa-tslp. 

 ku'tsi-pa-wats. 

 ku'tsi-pa-hwats. 



[ku'tsip, ashes, ashen or gray, 

 etc., + pa'iva-tslp, or its 

 shortened forms, pa'wats 

 or pa'hwats, as in the name 

 of the following "species.] 

 Seeds formerly eaten as with 

 the preceding form. 

 Artemisia dracuncvloides Piirsh. 

 pa'wats. 

 pa'hwats. 



The seeds of this plant are 

 oily and nutritious. For- 

 merly much gathered as 

 food. Said to have formed 

 a favorite dish. 

 Artemisia tridentata Nutt. Sage- 

 brush, 

 po'ho-bi. 

 A tea made from the leaves 

 of this excessively abund- 

 ant plant was much used 

 as a medicine in febrile 

 conditions, etc. The leaves 

 were also used as a covering 

 over berries and other foods 

 preserved in caches. 

 Asclepiodora decumbens Gray. 

 ? pi'wa-nup. 

 A chewing gum said to have 

 been made from latex. 

 Aster adscendens Lindl. Aster; 

 starwort. 

 pa-oto'-ga. 



Astragalus iodanthus Watson. 

 Rattle-weed ; Buffalo-bean, 

 na'da-pa-ra-na-giint. 



da'pa-rai-nump. 



The name refers to the shoe- 

 shaped legumes. 

 Astragalus junceus Gray. Rat- 

 tleweed. 

 One of the pun'go-rm-tsu or 

 horse medicines, as which 

 it is said to have been 

 valued. The name is from 

 pUii'go, horse, and mi'tsu, 

 medicine. 

 Astragalus utahensis T. and G. 

 Rattleweed. 

 to'sa-wu-da. 



[to'sa, -to'si-hit, white, -|- 

 wu'da, bear, a name appar- 

 ently suggested by the 

 dense white woolly cover- 

 ing of this plant and its 

 legumes.] 

 ti'a-sa-ton-dzi. 

 Atriplex canescens James, 

 dsi'ciip. 



Seeds eaten. 

 Atriplex confertifolia Watson, 

 sun. 

 su'no. 

 ?ka'num-pi. 

 The seeds were formerly eat- 

 en, this and other species 

 of Atriplex forming one of 

 the most important sources 

 of seed food. This and the 

 related forms frequently 

 occur in the region over 

 great areas. The seeds 

 were gathered in the same 




1911.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



53 



manner as those of grasses 

 as previously described. 

 Atriplex truncata Torr. 

 a'po. 



Seeds used as food as with the 

 preceding species. 

 Avena sativa L. Oat. 

 o'a-tump. 



Apparently from English oat 

 + limp. 

 Balsamorrhiza hookeri Nutt. 

 o'a-kump. 

 ?mo'a-kump. 

 a'ken-dzlp. 

 wi'a-ken-dzlp. 



Seeds used as food. 

 Balsamorrhiza sagittata Nutt. 

 Arrowroot, 

 ku'si-a-ken-dzlp. 



[ku'tslp, ashen, gray, + a'ken- 

 dzip.] 

 ku'si-ak. 



Shortened form of the pre- 

 ceding word, 

 a'ken-dzlp. 



This brilliantly flowered 

 plant, which is abundant 

 over the hills and moun- 

 tain sides throughout the 

 Gosiute territory, was 

 formerly of much economic 

 importance to them. In 

 the spring the large leaves 

 and their petioles were 

 boiled and eaten. Later, 

 when the seeds were ripe, 

 these were beaten out of 

 the heads into baskets and 

 used as food as in the case 

 of those of Helianihus. 

 The root was used as a 



remedy upon fresh wounds, 

 being chewed or pounded 

 up and used as a paste or 

 salve upon the affected 

 part. 

 Bark. 



wa'tsip. 

 Beckmannia cruciformis Host. 

 Slough Grass, 

 u'gu-pi. 

 u'gup. 

 Berberis repens Lindl. Oregon 

 Grape, 

 so'ko-ri-ump. 



[so'ko-ri, deer, + ump, indi- 

 cating food, etc. Hence 

 "deer food."] 

 Bervla angustifolia Koch. 



a'tam-bl-tcup. 

 Betvla occidentalis Hook. Birch, 



u'di-up. 

 Bigelovia douglasii Gray. Rabbit- 

 brush ; Ray less Golden- 

 rod, 

 si'bii-pi. 



The chewing-gum most 

 highly valued among the 

 Gosiutes was prepared from 

 this plant as previously 

 described. 

 Bigelovia pulchella Gray. Rabbit- 

 brush; Rayless Golden- 

 rod, 

 ta'bi-si-bu-pi. 



[ta'hi, sun, -|- si'hu-pi, a name 

 of B. douglasii, the pre- 

 ceding species, regarded as 

 the typical Bigelovia.] 

 ta'bi-si-pomp. 



[ta'hi, sun, -|- pam'pi, head 




54 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Feb, 



(probably); "sun-head." 

 Cf. our name sun-flower.] 

 Branch (shoot), 

 si'iin-gun. 

 si'a-ka. 

 Bromus breviaristatus Thurb., etc. 

 Brome Grass, 

 to'bai-bi. 

 to'pai-bi. 

 to'ho-bai-bi. 

 to'ho-bi. 



Seeds formerly eaten. 

 Brizopyrum spicatum Hooker. 



ku'so-nlp. 

 Bryum sp. Moss, 

 so'-go-ba-gwip. 

 so'-ko-r i-bo-ump . 



[In the first name so-go 

 means earth. In the sec- 

 ond so'-ko-ri means deer, 

 the reference being to the 

 eating of the moss by this 

 animal.] 

 Bud. 



I'-gi-si-a-ka. 



[From I-gi, present, initial, 

 si'-a-ka, sprout, branch, 

 etc.] 

 Calochortus nuttalUT orr. and Gray, 

 Sego. 

 si'-go. 



The common name for this 

 attractive lily is taken 

 from the Indian name. In 

 the spring and early sum- 

 mer the bulbs of the sego 

 were formerly much used 

 as food by the Gosiutes, 

 constituting a standard 

 source at that time of the 

 year. The bulbs were also 



dried and preserved for 

 winter use in the usual 

 type of pit or " cellar." 

 Camassia esculenta Lindl. 

 Camass. 

 pa'-si-go. 



As with the preceding form, 

 the bulbs of this plant were 

 formerly a prized source 

 of food. The bulbs of this 

 plant were likewise pre- 

 served for winter use. 

 They were usually cooked 

 by roasting in pits lined 

 with hot stones. 

 Cardamine cordifolia Gray. Bit- 

 ter Cress. 

 ?mo-a-gwa-niip . 

 Carex hookeriana Dew. Sedge, 

 ai'bi-baip. 



[Prob. ai'ba, clay, + baip 

 (?from ba + up).] 

 Carex jamesii Torr., fistira, muri- 

 cata, etc. Sedge, 

 pa'gi-glp. 

 Carex utricvlata Boott. Sedge, 

 pa'gi-glp. 

 pai'glp. 

 ai'bi-baip. 



[ai'ba, clay, + pa, water. + 



-up.] 

 Children sometimes eat lower 

 tender stems and parts of 

 roots. 

 Carex sp. Sedge, 

 pa'ra-we-ce-gop . 



Roots rarely used^as medi- 

 cine. 

 Carum carui. 

 a'pa. 

 ?tln'ta. 




1911.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



55 



Carum gairdneri Benth. and Hook, 

 yam'pa. 

 yamp. 



The fleshy roots of this plant 

 furnished a food veiy im- 

 portant to the Gosiutes 

 and related Indians and 

 one of which they were 

 especially fond. The plant 

 is widely distributed and 

 occurs abundantly in the 

 mountains. The roots 

 were commonly prepared 

 by roasting in a pit lined 

 with hot stones. They 

 were preserved in quantity 

 for winter use. 

 Castilleia miniata Dougl. Indian 

 Paint-brush; Painted Cup. 

 koi'di-glp. 



Also spoken of sometimes as 

 to'go-un-go-na; but this 

 name more frequently re- 

 stricted to the next species. 

 Castilleia parviflora Bong, and 

 minor Gray. Indian Paint- 

 brush; Painted Cup. 

 to'go-un-go-na. 



[From to'go-a, snake, rattle- 

 snake, + un, + g'&n, gu'na, 

 fire. Hence, " snake fire."] 

 Catkin, pistillate, of willows, etc. 

 bi'a-glnt. 



[Apparently hi' a, ha, seed, 

 etc., + kin, + ti] 

 Catkin, staminate, of willow, etc. 



I'dcum-um-bu-i. 

 Ceanothus velutinus Dougl. New 

 Jersey Tea. 

 a'di-riim-bip. 

 a'di-rum-b Ip-an-ka-sip . 



[a'di-rum-bip + dn'ka-hU, 

 red, + sip.] 

 Cercocarpus ledifolius. Mountain 

 Mahogany, 

 tu'nam-pi. 

 tu'nump. 



The wood of the mountain 

 mahogany was the favorite 

 material among the Gos- 

 iutes for bows. Powdered 

 charcoal made from the 

 green wood was used by 

 some on burns. 

 Cercocarpus parvifolius Nutt. 

 Mountain Mahogany, 

 tu'hi-nup. 

 Chaenactis douglasii Hook, and 

 Arn. 

 wafi'gln-glp. 

 ?ko'si-bo-qun-tos. 

 Sometimes minced or mashed 

 up and rubbed on limbs, 

 etc., for soreness or aching. 

 Chenopodium capitatum Watson. 

 Goose-foot; Pigweed, 

 kum'iin-tsi-a. 



[Prob. kum, rabbit, + un, + 

 tsi'a.] 

 ??pa'gwo-nup. 

 Seeds formerly gathered for 

 food, this species being the 

 source of a large supply, 

 Chenopodium leptophyllum Nutt. 

 Pigweed; Goose-foot, 

 i'ti-pi. 



Seeds served as food as with 

 the preceding species. 

 Chenopodium ruhrum L. and capi- 

 tatum Watson. Pigweed; 

 Goose-foot 




56 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Feb., 



on'ttai-pi-wai. 



[on'ti-gait, roan, etc., the 

 name referring to color of 

 ripe fruiting.] 

 kum'un-tsi-a. 



Seeds formerly eaten. 

 Chrysopsis villosus Nutt., etc. 

 Golden Aster, 

 toi'ya-di-sas. 



\toi'ya-bi, mountain, etc., + 

 dVsas.^ 

 ? tu'go-wa-tsip. 

 Cinna arundinacea var. pendida 

 Gray. Wood Reed Grass, 

 to'bai-bi. 



Seeds gathered for food. 

 Claytonia caroliniana var. ses- 

 silifolia Torr. Spring- 

 beauty, 

 dzi'na. 



Bulbs used as food. The 

 same name is sometimes 

 applied to the cultivated 

 potato (vid. sub Solanum). 

 Claytonia perfoliata Donn. 

 pa'gwo-dzup. 

 ?pa'bu-ip. 

 The second name a general 

 term designating habitat, 

 \ as previously described and 



probably not correctly ap- 

 plied to the present species. 

 Clematis douglasii Hook. Clema- 

 tis; Virgin's Bower, 

 o'bln-da-ma-niimp. 

 ?a'ra-si-mu. 

 Clematis ligusticufolia Nutt. 

 Clematis; Virgin's Bower, 

 o'bln-da-ma-nump. 

 Furnished a medicine. 



Cleome integrifolia Torr. and Gray, 

 a'na-gwa-nup. 

 bftci-gwa-niip. 



Leaves formerly pounded up 

 in water and applied as a 

 remedy to sore eyes. 

 Cleome lutea Hook, 

 si'bo-i-up. 

 Occasionally spoken of under 

 the same name as the 

 preceding. 

 Cnicus drumm^ndi Gray. Plumed 

 Thistle, 

 tin'tsln-ga. 

 tsln'ga. 

 tsi'na. 

 Portions of stems formerly 

 eaten. 

 Cnicus eatoni Gray. Thistle, 

 po'gwo. 

 po'go. 



aiVa-bo-gop. 

 ai'gwa-bo-gop. 



Also sometimes spoken of 

 under second name of the 

 and its variants. 

 Used as a remedy on cuts 

 and sores. Stems eaten. 

 Probably the thistle most 

 used as food. 

 Cnicus undvlatus Gray. Plumed 

 Thistle, 

 pa'bo-go. i 



Also as tslfi'ga, etc. 

 Stems eaten. 

 Commandra pallida A. DC. Bas- 

 tard Toad-flax, 

 tim'bo-ip. 



A general term. 




1911.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



57 



Cornus stolonifera Michx. Kinni- 

 kiiinic; Dogwood, 

 an'ka-kwi-nup. 

 an'ka-koi-nup. 



[Cf. the Shoshoni dnfka-sih. 

 The. name refers to the red 

 color of the shoots.] 

 The inner bark of this plant, 

 most commonly called 

 ^ J kinnikinnic in the West, 

 was formerly much smoked 

 as tobacco. It was often 

 mixed with ordinary to- 

 bacco when the latter was 

 procurable. Its effect was 

 mentioned by one Gosiute 

 as being not a little like 

 that of opium. The wood 

 was sometimes used in the 

 making of snow-shoes. 

 Cone, of Pinus, 

 ti'ba-un-gop. 



The name is from ti'ha, pine 

 nut, -h un, + gop, pod or 

 seed-vessel. 

 Coioania mexicana Don. Cliff 

 Rose, 

 hi'na-bi. 

 Leaves used as medicine. 

 Cratcegns oxycanthus. Thorn. 



bftclp. 

 Cratcegus rivvlaris Niitt. Haws, 

 wi'um-pi. 

 wi'iimp. 

 Crepis glauca Torr. and Gray, 

 mu'tci-gi. 

 mu'tci-glp. 

 mu'ha-ti-bu-i. 



Leaves said sometimes to 

 have been eaten. 



Crepis occidentalis Nutt. 

 mo'a-mu-!-tci-gIp. 

 mo'a-mu-I-tci-gi. 



Cymopterus longipes Watson, 

 an-dzup. 



[Cf. Shoshoni toi'yan-dup.] 

 The leaves of this plant, so 

 abundant and widespread 

 in this region, formed a 

 common article of food in 

 the spring. They were 

 prepared by boiling. 

 Cymopterus montanus Torr. and 

 Gray, 

 tu'na. 



Seeds and underground parts 

 eaten, but not the leaves, 

 as was done with the 

 preceding form. 



Cystopteris fragilis Bernh. Fern, 

 pa'sa-gwup. 



Delphinium hicolor Nutt. and 

 Menziesii D.C. Larkspur, 

 pa'ga-sau-wi-no-up. 

 tu'ku-ba-gump. 



The second name refers to 

 the deep blue flowers 

 (tu'kum, the sky, and 

 hence blue, etc.). 

 Recognized as poisonous. 

 Deschampsia ccespitosa Beauv. 

 var. Hair Grass, 

 toi'ya-so-nlp. 



[toi'ya-bi, mountain, -1- 

 so'nlp, gi-ass.] 

 toi'ya-si-wump. 



{toi'ya-hi, mountain, + 



si'wump, q. vid.] 

 Seeds eaten. 




58 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Feb, 



Deschampsia danthonioides Munro. 

 Hair Grass, 

 mo'no. 

 ?yo'ni-so-nIp. 



Deyeuxia canadensis Beaiiv. and 

 stricta Trin. Reed Bent 

 Grass, 

 ni'a-blp. 

 an'go-ma-tai-y u . 

 an'go-ma-tsai-y u . 



[afi'go-bi, spruce, + ma'tsai- 

 yu.] 

 Dodecathion meadia L. Shooting 

 Star, 

 pa'bii-ip. 

 Dracocephalum parviflorum Nutt. 

 Dragon-head, 

 toi'y a-ba-gwa-nup . 



[toi'ya-bi, mountain, or toi'ya- 

 v)int, canyon, + pa'gwa- 

 nup, mint, which see fur- 

 ther.] 

 The same name also applied 

 to the related forms Lo- 

 phanthus urticifolins and 

 Scutellaria. 

 Seeds gathered as food. 

 Echinospermum redowskii Lehm., 

 floribundum Lehm., etc. 

 Stickseed. 

 tso'nap. 



This same name was applied 

 to various borraginaceous 

 plants in about the same 

 way as our own English 

 popular name "stickseed." 

 Eleocharis palustris R. Br. Spike- 

 rush, 

 wan'dzi-baip. 



By some occasionally loosely 

 spoken of as ha'hioap, which 



is correctly the name for 

 Juncus. 

 Elymus canadensis L. Wild Rye. 

 ti'wa-bi-nlp. 

 o'ro-rop. 

 o'ro. 

 o'do. 

 Seeds formerly gathered for 

 food. 

 Elymus sihiricus L. Wild Rye; 

 Lyme Grass, 

 o'ro-rop. 

 o'ro. 

 o'do. 



By some also spoken of 

 loosely as ni'a-hi, q. vid. 

 Seeds used for food. 

 Epilobium alpinum L. Willow- 

 herb, 

 u'sa. 

 Epilobium coloratum Muhl. Wil- 

 low-herb, 

 tu'si-glp. 

 The name refers to the black 

 seeds. 

 Epilobium spicatum L. Willow- 

 herb, 

 pa'ga-so-nap. 

 Epipactis gigantea Dougl. 

 wan'di-wa-sump . 

 wan'di-wa-slp. 

 Equisetum hiemale L, Scouring 

 Rush. 

 I'sa-yu-glp. 

 Name refers to use made of 

 plant by Indian chi dren 

 for whistles. 

 Erigeron canadensis L. Fleabane. 

 ?on'tIm-pi-wa-tsIp, 

 ?on'tIm-pi-wai. 

 This name probably not cor- 




1911.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



59 



rectly applied to this form, 

 being by nearly all re- 

 stricted to species of 

 Chenopodium. 

 Erigeron glabellus Nutt. var. Flea- 

 bane, 

 tf sas. 

 dfsas. 



toi'ya-di-sas. 

 toi'di-sas. 

 toi'ya-da-ti-go-ra. 

 Erigeron grandiflorus Hook. Flea- 

 bane, 

 ta'kan-d I-di-a-gup . 

 ta'kan-dl-dai-gup. 

 The root is said to have been 

 used in the preparation of 

 an arrow poison. 

 \ta'ka, arrow, +' di'di-a-kin, 

 to kill, etc., gop, gup, snare, 

 means of securing, etc.] 

 Erigeron leiomerus Gray. Flea- 

 bane, 

 pu'i-dl-sas. 



[pu'i-Mt, blue, violet, etc., + 

 dVsas.] 

 tf-sas. 



dl'sas (of. sub E. glabellus). 

 ?toi'ya-ta-son-dzi. 

 Erigeron macranthus Nutt. Flea- 

 bane, 

 pa'ufi-ga. 

 kai'si-na-bop. 

 The name mo'a-gUp is often 

 applied in a general way 

 to various fleabanes by 

 some Gosiutes. 

 Eriogonum brevicaulis Nutt. 



pu'i-wa-nup. 

 Eriogonum ccespitosum Nutt. 

 tIm'pi-t!m-bo-i-{imp. 



Eriogonum cernuum Nutt. 

 oi'tcu-mo. 



[oi'tcu, bird, + mo^a, (prob.) 

 leg; given in reference to 

 the peduncle which resem- 

 ble slender bird legs with 

 toes at top.] 

 oi'tcu-yo. 

 Eriogonum heracleoides Nutt. 

 bl'tca-mok. 



Name refers to handlike 

 appearance of peduncles 

 and rays, 

 o'a-pa-dza-ki. 

 Eriogonum inflatum Torr. 

 oi'tcu-mo. 

 oi'tcu-o. 

 oi'tcu-yo (cf. sub E. cernuum^ 



etc.). 

 ?pi'a-ga. 

 Eriogonum microthecum Nutt. and 

 several others closely re- 

 lated, 

 sa'na-kiin-da. 

 sa'na-kiint. 

 an'ka-wa-dzump. 

 Eriogonum ovalifolium Nutt. 

 Silver Plant, 

 sa'na-kiin-da. 

 sa'na-kiint. 



One of the timfhai-na-tsu. 

 Also an eye medicine and 

 occasionally used for 

 "stomach-ache." 

 Eriogonum umbellatum Torr. 

 sa'na-kiin-da. 

 sa'na-kiint (cf. preceding 



species), 

 o'a-pa-dza-ki. 

 Eriogonum villiflorum. 

 toi'gu-pa-glnt. 




60 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



[Feb, 



Said to have been used on 

 burns, but this statement 

 not confirmed. 

 Erodium cicutarium L'Her. 

 Stork's Bill; Alfilaria. 

 yam'pa-gvva-nup. 

 Apparently from yam'pa {q. 

 md.). Cf. gwa'nup, odor, 

 etc. 



Erythronium grandiflorum Pursh. 

 Dog-tooth Molet. 

 toi'ya-wi-tum-ba-ga. 

 Euphorbia montana Engelm., 

 dentata Michx., etc. 

 mo'a-ba-bu-ip. 

 ?toi'ya-ba-bu-ip. 



Eurotia lanata Moq. White Sage, 

 tci'cop. 

 Used as a remedy in inter- 

 mittent fevers. 

 Ferula multifida Gray, 

 to'dzup. 



The young shoots of this 

 plant are said sometimes 

 to have been eaten, but 

 never the grown plant or 

 old parts, which were far 

 too strong in taste. The 

 roots furnished a remedy 

 highly esteemed as an 

 application on wounds and 

 bruises. For this purpose 

 the roots are first sliced or 

 minced and then thor- 

 oughly mashed to a pulp 

 on a stone. It was then 

 ready to be spread upon 

 the affected part. The 

 author saw it thus applied 

 to an Indian's foot that 



had been crushed under 

 the wheel of a wagon. 

 Regarded also as an excellent 

 remedy for distemper in 

 horses among the Utes and 

 Gosiutes. The procedure 

 is to burn the roots in a pan 

 held beneath the nose of 

 the sick horse so that the 

 latter shall inhale the 

 smoke. 

 The seeds are said occasion- 

 ally to have been eaten. 

 Festv^a tenella Willd. Fescue 

 Grass, 

 siVimip. 



yo'ni-so-nip (Goship. Cf. Gly- 

 ceria). 

 Seeds served as food. 

 Festuca ovina L. var, brevifolia 

 Watson. Fescue grass, 

 toi'ya-si-wump, 



[toi'ya-hi, mountain, + si'- 

 wump.] 

 tfsa-hump. 



yo'ni-so-nip (Goship. Cf. pre- 

 ceding form and Glyceria). 

 Occasionally this and preced- 

 ing form are mentioned as 

 to'hai-bi (see Poa). 

 Seeds eaten. 

 Flower (general term). 



hfbln-gup. 

 Fragaria vesca L. Strawberry. 

 anTca-pa-ri-ump. 



{dn'ka-hit, red, + pa, pa'ri, 

 water, watery, + -Ump; 

 "red water berry."] 

 Franseria hookeriana Gray, 

 pi'a-tso-hwa. 




1911.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



61 



Fritillaria pudica Spreng. Butter- 

 cup; Yellow Bell, 

 wi'na-go. 



Bulbs formerly eaten to some 

 extent. 

 Galium aparine L. var., and 

 relatives. Bedstraw. 

 Said to be one of the pun'go- 

 na-tsu or horse medicines, 

 but no more specific named 

 could be recalled by infor- 

 mants. Said by one to be 

 good for horses when " give 

 out"; but author has no 

 information beyond this 

 statement. 

 Geranium fremonti Torr. Wild 

 Geranium; Crane's Bill, 

 ka'na-gwa-na. 

 pa'hu-ip. 



Decoction made from root 

 used in diarrhoea, etc. The 

 remedy is an active and 

 effective astringent. It 

 • may be remarked that a 

 species of the same genus 

 was formerly much used 

 for similar purposes in our 

 own medical practice and 

 that by many it was as 

 such highly esteemed. 

 Gilia aggregata Spreng., etc. 

 mu'tu-nats-um-bi- j i. 



\mu'tu-nats, humming-bird, 

 -t- um, possessive, + hi'dci. 

 milk, nourishment; "hum- 

 mingbird's milk or nectar." 

 Names applied also to sev- 

 eral other related forms, 

 such as Zauschneria.] 



Gilia gracilis Hook and linearis 

 Gray, 

 i'am-blp. 



[Prob. i^a, wound, -{- m, + 

 Mp.] 



Said formerly to have been 

 mashed up and applied on 

 wounds and bruises. 

 Glyceria ceroides Thurber. Manna 

 Grass, 

 si'wump. 



yo'ni-so-nip (Goship. Cf. 



Festuca). 

 Cf. Festuca, to which name 

 is also applied. Glyceria is 

 apparently the typical or 

 standard form. 

 Seeds formerly an important 

 source of food. 

 Glyceria aqvntica Smith. Reed 

 Meadow Grass, 

 kum'a-ra-si-yu-glp. 

 pa'si-wump. 



[pa, water, + si'wump, q. vid.: 

 water si'wump in reference 

 to habitat in wet gi-ound 

 and along streams.] 

 Seeds used as food. 

 Glyceria nervata Trin. 

 tai'gwi-bi. 

 si'wump. 



?pa'si-wump (cf. preceding 

 form). 

 Seeds eaten. 

 Glaux maritima Ij. Sea-Milkwort. 

 pa'ru-sip. 

 ?o'ta-bi-da. 

 Geum rosii Ser. 



Said by one to be an 

 i'a-na-tsu. 




62 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Feb., 



Geum macrophyllum Willd. 

 nin'iin-tsai. 



Decoction from roots used as 

 medicine. 

 Glycosma occidentalis Nutt. 

 pi'a-po-gop. 

 ?pa'si-gwlp. 

 Cf. Osmorrhiza and Angelica, 

 which are also called by 

 the same name, the former 

 probably being the jpa'si- 

 gmp proper. 

 Gnaphalium sprengelii Hook, and 



Arn. Cudweed. 

 ' nan'te-bltc. 

 toi'ya-da-ti-bu-da 

 toi^a-da-ti-bu-da-go-ra. 

 Grass (general term). 



so'nip. 

 Grayia polygaloides Hook and Arn. 

 Shad Scale, 

 kan'giim-pi. 

 Grindelia squarrosa Dunal. Gum 

 Plant; Arnica, 

 mu'ha-kiim. 



Cf, further the use of this 

 term as indicated in Gos- 

 iute list. 

 A cough medicine is made 

 from the roots among the 

 Utes, but the author has 

 no information of such use 

 among the Gosiutes. How- 

 ever, it was quite likely used. 

 Gviierrezia euthamioB Torr. and 

 Gray. Torch-weed; Rab- 

 bit-brush, 

 ku'ki-koi-nump. 

 Gymnolomia midti flora Benth. and 

 Hook, 

 mo'ta-qa. 



i'ca-mo-ta-qa. 

 [Vca, false, 4- mo'ta-qa.] 

 Seeds formerly eaten. 

 Hedysarum mackenzii Richard, 

 pa'sa-ton-dzlp. 



[Prob. pa'sa, dry, + ton'tso, 

 clover, + up.] 

 pi'o-ra. 



Ipi'up, large, long, + o'ra, 

 stem.] 



Helenium autumnale L. Sneeze- 

 weed. 



tfda-ya-gup. 



tfya-giip. 



mo'ta-qa. 



mu'ta-qa. 

 Hdenium hoopesii Gray. Sneeze- 

 weed; Sneezewort. 



tfda-ya-gup. 



ti'ya-gup. 



toi'ya-mo-ta-qa. 

 Hdianihella uniflxyra Torr. and 

 Gray. 



mu'ha-kump. 



mo'ha-ktimp. 



pi'a-pa-ot-qa. 



\jpi'iXp, large, + pa-ot'-qa, 

 q. vid.] 

 Hdianthus annuus L. Sunflower. 



i'lim-pi. 

 The seeds of the sunflower 

 formed a highly prized 

 source of food and oil 

 among the Gosiutes. The 

 seeds, when ripe, were 

 beaten out of the heads 

 into baskets by means of 

 paddles or by means of the 

 ordinary collecting baskets 

 previously described. 




1911.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



63 



Heracleum lanatum Michx. Cow 

 Parsnip. 



ko'no-gwip. 

 Heuchera rubescens Torr. and 

 related species. Alum- 

 root. 



wi'gun-dza. 



pa'sa-wi-gun-dza. 



The roots of this plant and 

 closely related forms, in- 

 cluding especially the 

 species of Mitella, used as 

 a remedy for colic, etc., in 

 babies and children. The 

 properties of the roots are 

 generally astringent. The 

 preparation from the root 

 is commonly spoken of as 

 "to'sa-na-tsu," a word 

 meaning ''white medi- 

 cine," in reference to its 

 color. It is used in the 

 form of a tea or decoction. 

 It is still constantly used 

 and is highly valued. 

 Hieracium gracilis Hook and 

 scovleri Hook. Hawkweed. 



mu'tci-gi. 



mo'tci-gi. 

 Holodiscus discolor var. dumosa 

 Maxim. 



ku'si-wup. 



tifi'go-Ip. 



tlfi'-gwlp. 

 Hordeum nodosum L. and jubatum 

 L. Barley. 



kwa'tci-up. 



kan'kwai-tcup. 

 HumuliLS lupidus L. Hop. 



wa'ntip. 



w a'na-na-tsa-mo-gi. 



u'na-tso-mo-gi. 

 bi'tca-mok. 



?Seeds sometimes mixed in 

 small amounts with the 

 meal or flour prepared from 

 seeds of grasses, etc., pre- 

 patory to baking into cakes. 

 Hydrophyllum occidentals Gray 

 and capitatum. Waterleaf . 

 toi'y a-ba-gwo-dzup . 



{toi'ya-hi, mountain, + pa'- 

 gwo-dzup.] 

 Hypnum sp. Moss, 

 pa'ofi-g^p, 



Cf. Polytrichum. 

 Iva axilaris Pursh. 

 tu'ro-sip. 



\tu'o-bit, tu'ro-vi, black, + 



sip, sap, juice, + Up.'] 

 The same name includes also 

 Ambrosia, q. vid. 

 Iva xanthifolia Nutt. 



tu'ro-sip (cf. preceding form). 

 ?kum'tki-tsi-a. 

 Used by a few, but doubtless 

 incorrectly. See Chenopo- 

 dium. ■ 

 Ivesia gordoni Torr. and Gray. 



?toi'y a-wan-go-glp . 

 Jamesia americana Torr. and 

 Gray, 

 toi'ya-da-tslp. 



One of a number of moun- 

 tain plants known under 

 this general designation. 

 Juniperus californica var. utah- 

 ensis, etc. Cedar; Juniper, 

 wa'pi. 

 wap. 



The full name as heard among 

 the Shoshoni is wa'ap-o-pi. 




64 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Feb.. 



and clearly means fire, 

 match, or " kindling wood." 

 In the Gosiute and most 

 related dialects the o'pi, 

 wood, is not heard, the 

 form remaining variously 

 as wap, wa'pi and wai'ap 

 (cf. the Gosiute ivai'hin, 

 to burn). 

 One of the most familiar of 

 arborescent plants in the 

 Gosiute territory, occur- 

 ring widely over the foot- 

 hills and mountains. It 

 furnished the wood most 

 commonly used in the con- 



y struction of winter lodges, 



the bark {i'na-wa-tslp) 

 being used for thatching 

 and occasionally as a cov- 

 ering on the floor, though 

 smaller branches and 

 especially grasses were 

 commonly applied to the 

 latter purpose. The bark 

 was also used to line and 

 cover the pits in which 



[ dried fruits, etc., were 



stored. The leaves fur- 

 nished a favorite medicine 

 for coughs and colds, being 

 used in the form of a tea. 

 It is still much in use for 

 this purpose. 

 The cedar-berries, known as 

 wap'-um-pi, were some- 

 times eaten in fall and 

 winter after proper boiling. 



Juniperus communis var. alpina. 

 wap. 

 aii'go-g-wa-nup. 



[Prob. an'go-hi, spruce, + 

 gwa'nup, odor, etc.]. 

 Juniperus virginianu^ L. Red 

 Cedar, 

 pa'wa-pi. 

 Kalmia glauxM Ait. American 

 Laurel, 

 tim'pin-tu-niimp . 



{tlm'pi, rock, -h tu'nump, 



mahogany.] 

 Also one of the plants spoken 

 of under the general desig- 

 nation tim'bo-ip. Leaves 

 by some used as a medicine. 

 Krynitzkia fulvocanescens Gray, 

 ku'si-ya-ni-glnt. 

 [ku'tslp, ashes, ashen, in refer- 

 ence to the dense gray cov- 

 ering of hair, + ya'ni-glnt.] 

 LactuxxL leucophcsa Gray. Lettuce, 

 mu'tci-glp. 

 mu'tci-gi. 



(pa-ot'-qa; prob. incorrect for 

 this form.) 

 iMctuxM ludoviciana DC. Lettuce, 

 mu'tci-glp. 

 ?bi'tci-gwa-nup. 

 mu'tci-gi. 



The leaves of the various 

 species of Lactuca were 

 eaten. 

 Lathyrus ornatu^ Nutt. Ever- 

 lasting Pea. 

 mu'da-bls. 



Also known under the general 

 name of pi'o-ra, referring to 

 the stem, and na'da-pa-ra- 

 na-glnt, the latter in re- 

 stricted usage applying 

 to Astragalus and referring 

 to the pod. 




1911.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



65 



Layia glandulosa Hook and Arn. 

 mo'ta-qa. 

 mu'ta-qa. 



Applied also to several other 

 related forms. Cf. further 

 in the Gosiiite list under 

 mo'ta-qa. 

 Leaf (general term). 



sfgi. 

 Lemna. Duckweed, 

 wa'da-bu-ip. 

 pai'ya-bo-sip. 

 Lepidium intermedium Gray. 

 Peppergrass. 

 wu'bu-i-nup. 



The same name was also 

 applied to several other 

 species belonging to- the 

 same family with about 

 the same comprehensive- 

 ness and flexibility as 

 our popular name *'pep- 

 pergi-ass." Cf. Draba. 

 Lewisia rediviva Pursh. 



ka'na. 

 Lichen (general term), 

 tim'p In-so-kiip . 



[ttm'pi, rock, + n, -\- sok'up, 

 earth, "rock earth or cov- 

 ering."] 

 Linum kingii Watson. Flax. 



na'na-rlp. 

 Linum perenne L. Flax. 



Applied as a remedy to 

 bruises, etc. Said to take 

 down swelling, etc. Cf . the 

 use of flax-seed meal. 

 Liithospermum hirtum Lehm, 

 Gromwell. 

 an'ka-tso-nap. 

 aii'ka-tso-ni-b aip . 



[dil'ka-bit, red, -|- tso'nap or 

 tso'ni-haip (cf. under next 

 species), the reference prob- 

 ably being to the deep 

 orange color of the corol- 

 las.] 

 Lithospermum pilosum Nutt. and 

 multiflorum Torr. Grom- 

 well; Stickseed. 

 tso'ni-baip. 

 tsom'ba. 

 tso'nap. 



[From tso'mo, tso, hook, etc., 

 + ha, seed, + -Up or -Ip, 

 the reference being to 

 the burlike fruit. Cf. our 

 popular name "stickseed," 

 which corresponds very 

 nearly to the Indian word.] 

 The seeds were sometimes 

 eaten. The roots formed 

 a valued remedy in kidney 

 trouble (diuretic). 

 Lonicera utahensis Wa,tson and 

 involu£rata Banks. Wood- 

 bine; Honeysuckle, 

 pi'a-ra-dum-blp. 

 pi'a-da-riim-bip . 

 pa'ri-a-un-dik-up. 



[pa'ri, elk, + iin, + dWup, 

 food; i. e., "elk's food." 

 Cf. the Ute te'ed-kav.] , 



These plants are also often 

 spoken of under the name 

 vm'da-un-dtk-iip, ' ' bear ' s 

 food," because the berries 

 are said to be eaten by 

 the bear. Cf. the name 

 "bear-berry," applied by 

 the settlers of Montana, 

 etc., to species of Lonicera. 




66 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Feb., 



Lophanthus urticifolius Benth. 

 toi'ya-ba-gwa-nup. 



[toi^ya-bi, mountain, + 

 pa'gwa-nup, mint (Mentha) 

 the reference being to 

 habitat.] 

 Cf. Drzcocephalus and Scutel- 

 laria, to which forms the 

 same name is also applied. 

 The seeds were formerly ex- 

 tensively gathered for 

 use like those of the grasses 

 and chenopods. 

 Lupinus leiicophyllus Dougl., par- 

 viflorus Nutt., etc. Lupine, 

 kwi'ta-kwa-nup. 



[Prob. kvoi-tup, excrement, 

 + gwa'nup, odor.] 



Lycopodium. 

 ?pam'bu-i-up. 



Lycopus sinuatus Ell. Water 

 Horehound. 

 nfdi-ba. 

 nfdib. 



Occasionally heard as pa'gwor- 

 nUp, the name of the mint 

 (Mentha). 

 Lygodesmia grandiflora Torr. and 

 Gray. 

 Said to be one of the horse 

 medicines or pun'go-na-tsu. 

 Madia glomerata H.ook. Tarweed. 

 nan'tai-bltc. 

 nan'te-bitc. 

 These names somewhat 

 doubtful as applied to this 

 species. 

 Malvastrum cocnneum Gray. 

 False Mallow, 

 p a'sa-koi-no-komp . 



koi'no-komp. 



Cf. the following species. 

 Malvastrum munroanum Gray, 

 koi'no-komp. 

 koi'ya-kump. 

 This and the preceding form 

 formerly pounded up in 

 water to form a mucilage 

 or gummy paste {wi'naun 

 tsaug), which was applied 

 over the rough inner sur- 

 faces of earthen vessels, 

 especially bowls {wi'nau). 

 The paste filled up the 

 small holes and covered 

 over irregularities and upon 

 hardening left thus a 

 • smooth surface. The 



wi'nau-tsaug (bowl " fil- 

 ler") was sometimes simi- 

 larly used in wicker vessels 

 designed to hold water, the 

 latter commonly being 

 first "pitched" with pine 

 gum. 

 Mammilaria (?). 

 mu'tsa. 



Outer portion of the cactus 

 removed and central part 

 used as food. 

 Matricaria discoidea. 



?mu-i'-tci-gi. 

 Medicago saliva L. Lucern; al- 

 falfa, 

 pu'i-di-kup. 



\jpu'i-blt + dik^Hp.] 

 Melica poceoides. 



wa'bi. 

 Mentha canadensis L. Mint. 

 pa'na-tl-so. 

 pa'gwa-nup. 




1911.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



67 



From the leaves of this plant 

 a tea was made which was 

 used as a beverage. 

 Mentzelia Icevicavlis Torr. and 

 Gray and mvltiflora. 

 pi'a-ku-hwa. 

 Mentzelia 'pumila, albicaidis, etc. 

 ku'hwa. 



Said by one informant to have 

 been used as a medicine 

 for burns {wm/a-na-tsu). 

 Mertensia alpina. 



?toi'y a-mo-ta-komp . 

 Microseris major and linearifolia. 

 mu'l-tcl-gi. 

 mu'tci-glp. 

 Mitella trifida. 

 pi'a-nank. 

 to'sa-na-tsu. 



The roots of species of 

 Mitella and Heuchera were 

 gathered and kept as a 

 medicine for colic in babies. 

 It was used as a decoction 

 and was much valued. 

 The color of the dried 

 roots gave the name of 

 to'sa-na-tsu, white medi- 

 cine, to the preparation as 

 likewise Mitella itself. 

 Monardella odoratissima, 



pu'i-di-sas. 

 Monolepis chenopodoidea. 

 ko'ga-bi. 

 ko'ga-rum-pi. 



Seeds said sometimes^to^have 

 been eaten. 

 Nasturtium palu^tre DC. and var. 

 Water-cress, 

 si'bo-i-timp. 

 Plant eaten. 



Negundo aceroides Moench. Box- 

 elder, 

 gu'su-wup. 

 Negundo aceroides, staminate 

 flowers of. 

 ku'ni-up. 

 Negundo aceroides, pistillate 

 flowers of; samara of. 

 naii'ki-tco. 



[ndnk, ear, + prob. iso'mo, 

 tco, bead, etc.]. 

 Nicotiana attenuxita Torr. To- 

 bacco, 

 pu'i-ba-u. 



This was the source of to- 

 bacco largely used by the 

 Gosiutes, the leaves being 

 dried in the ordinary way 

 and used either alone or 

 mixed with the inner bark 

 of the kinnikinnic (cf. 

 under Cornus). 

 (Enothera biennis L. Evening 

 Primrose, 

 tsfgi-ttimp. 

 Seeds said to have been 

 occasionally eaten. 

 (Enothera ccespitosa Nutt. Even- 

 ing Primrose. 

 ??ka'na-gwa-nu. 



??Roots used as medicine. 

 Opuntia rutila Nutt., microseris 

 DC, etc. Cactus, 

 ai'gwo-bi. 



Formerly used as food, the 

 spines being removed and 

 the joints roasted in hot 

 coals. 

 Orogenia linearifolia Watson, 

 kwi'ta-po-ni. 

 kwi'ta-po. 




68 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Feb., 



Gosiutes say the bear often 

 digs up and eats the bulbs 

 of this plant. 

 Orthocarpus linearifolitis Benth. 

 ta'bi-wiimp. 

 pi'a-ba-bi-wump . 

 Osmorrhiza nvda Torr. Sweet 

 Cicely, 

 pa'si-gwip. 



Cf. also the related Glycosma 

 and also Angelica. 

 Oryzopsis ciispidata Benth. Moun- 

 tain Rice, 

 wai. . 



A valuable bunch-grass very 

 common in Nevada and 

 Utah. Formerly it fur- 

 nished an abundance of 

 seeds or grain to the Gos- 

 iutes. 

 Oxyria digyna Camp. Mountain 

 Sorrel, 

 an'ka-si-yu-na. 

 Pachystima myrsinites Raf. Box. 



ta'tslp. 

 Parnassia fimbriata Banks. Grass 

 of Parnassus, 

 tlm'bi-wi-gun-dza. 

 tim'bi-wi-gun-ta. 



One of the tlmfhai-na-tsu. 

 Parnassia parviflora DC. Grass 

 of Parnassus. 

 ?koi'gwa-nup. 

 toi'ya-gwa-nup. 



Cf . Saxifraga nivalis, a related 

 form. 

 Pentstemon confertus Dougi. var. 

 Beard-Tongue, 

 tu-go-wi-nup. 

 Peucedanum graveolens Watson, 

 i'jaip. 



The roots of several species 

 oi Peucedanum formed one 

 of the most valued medi- 

 cines among the Gosiutes, 

 being, in fact, termed by 

 them pi'-a-na-tsu, or " great 

 medicine." In cases of sore 

 throat it was mashed and 

 applied directly to the af- 

 fected surface. In cases of 

 biliousness and severe colds 

 it was sometimes used as a 

 decoction, being by some 

 mixed with a koi'na-tsu 

 and pine resin. 

 Peucedanum simplex Nutt. 



bl-tca-mu-kum. 



The name applied strictly to 

 a species of Eriogonum, 

 but also used in a more 

 general sense to indicate 

 several other plants like 

 the present one, which 

 have long peduncles bear- 

 ing rays suggestive of fin- 

 gers radiating from a hand, 

 Phacelia menziesii Torr. and cir- 

 cinata Jaeg. 



wu'-si-bJn-glnt. 



wu'-si-giint. 



The name refers to the cloth- 

 ing of limpid hairs on 

 stems and leaves of these 

 plants. 

 Phalaris arundinacea L. Canary 

 Grass. 



u'-gu-pi. 



u'-glp. 



o-glp. 



Cf . also Beckmxinnia, to which 

 the name primarily belongs. 




1911.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



69 



Phalaris is regarded as the 

 "little brother" of Beck- 

 mannia. 

 Phloeum alpinum L. Cat's Tail 

 Grass; Mountain Herd's 

 Grass, 

 tf-so-nlp. 



Cf. alopecurus, which is also 

 included under the name. 

 Phlox longifolia Nutt. Sweet 

 William; Phlox, 

 si-bi. 

 Phoradendron juniperum L. Mis- 

 tletoe, 

 o'-ka. 

 Phragmites communis Trin. Reed, 

 paij. 

 paidj. 



This tall reed is found in 

 abundance in some places 

 along streams and about 

 ponds and is common along 

 the shores of Utah liake. 

 A sweet secretion or honey- 

 dew formed on the leaves 

 by aphides was formerly 

 gathered by the Indians 

 and used as a sugar {u'-ga- 

 pi-na). The same was 

 true of similar secretions 

 formed on the leaves of the 

 Cottonwood and other 

 plants. In pioneer days 

 in Utah the Mormons also 

 gathered this secretion to 

 some extent. 

 Pinus m^nophylls Torr . and Trin. 

 Nut-pine, 

 ti'-ba-wa-ra. 



The nuts {ti'-ha) from this 

 tree formed one of the 



important foods of the 

 Gosiutes, and the invaria- 

 ble journey into the moun- 

 tains each fall for the 

 gathering the pine-nut har- 

 vest is still looked upon as 

 a gi*eat fixed event of the 

 year. In the pine-nut 

 season at this time the 

 Indians go chiefly to the 

 Deep Creek Mountains. 

 Pinus edulis Eug. Pinon Pine; 

 Nut-pine, 

 ai'-go-u-pi. 



When this species was acces- 

 sible the nuts were gath- 

 ered and used like those of 

 the preceding species. 

 Plant (general term), 

 si'-a-ka. 

 pu'-i-si-a-ka. 

 Plantago eriopoda Torr., patago- 

 nica, major L., etc. Plan- 

 tain, 

 toi'-gu-pa-giint. 



[The name refers to the 

 elevated head of the flow- 

 ers, toi, indicating eleva- 

 tion, etc., + giXp, fruit, + 

 a connective, + gilnt. The 

 same name is sometimes 

 applied to Ranunculus for 

 the same reason.] 



Poa californica Munro. Meadow 

 Grass, 

 ni'-a-blp; ni'-a-bi. - ^ 

 Seeds eaten. 

 Poa ienuifolia Nutt. "Bunch 

 Grass"; Meadow Grass, 

 mi'-a-ba-so-nlp. 




70 



PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



[Feb., 



ni'a-ba-so-nlp. 



ni'-a-blp. 



Cf. the preceding. 

 The seeds of this abundant 

 "bunch grass/' notwith- 

 standing their small size, 

 were an important source 

 of grain to the Gosiutes. 

 Poa pratensis L. Blue Grass; 

 Meadow Grass. 



ni'-a-blp. 



aii'-go-ma-tsai-ya. 



The latter name commonly 

 applied also to Deyeuxia, 

 and apparenth' more nar- 

 rowly restricted to the 

 latter. Species of Dey- 

 euxia are also often spoken 

 of as ni'-a-hi'p, the forms of 

 the two genera not being 

 sharply distinguished by 

 them, as is only natural. 

 Their names, like our own 

 popular ones, often includ- 

 ed species which, scientifi- 

 cally studied, botanists 

 place in separate genera, 

 whUe in other cases their 

 distinctions were very 

 close. 

 Polemonium coerideum L. Greek 

 Valerian, 

 f-ca-un-toi-nump. 



The name refers to the fact 

 that the wolf {i'ca) is said 

 to eat the berries of the. 

 plant sometimes when sick. 



Polygonum amphihium L. 



pi'-a-pa-on-gop-pai'-dja-rump. 

 [po-up, large, + pa'on-gop, 



moss, water-weed, + pai'- 

 dja-rHmp.] 

 Polygonum erectum L. 



on'ka-pa-bui-i. 

 Polygonum hartwrightii Gray. ; 

 pa'-gu-Ip. 

 ta'-kum-bu-i. 

 Polygonum imbricatum Nutt. 



ko'-ka-bi. 

 Polygonum viviperum L. 

 ?toi'-ya-da-ti-bu-da. | 

 Polygonum juniperinum. Moss. 

 tim'-pm-par-bo-i-\ip. 

 pa'-on-gop. 

 pi'-a-pa-oii-gop. 

 Cf. Hypnum. 

 Popvlus angiLstifolia James. Cot- 

 tonwood, 

 so'-o-pi. 

 so'ho-bi. 

 The shoots of the cottonwood 

 furnished the material for 

 much of the basket work 

 among the Gosiutes. Be- 

 cause of greater strength 

 it was preferred to the 

 willows. The honey-dew 

 formed by aphides on the 

 leaves was gathered and 

 used somewhat as sugar. 

 Popvlus tremuloides Michx. 

 Quaking Aspen, 

 stn-gu-pi; sffi'-gtip. 

 PotentUla anserina L. Five Finger. 



?so'-ko. 

 PotentUla frviicosa L. 

 wa'tsi-glnt. 

 wa'na-glnt. 

 PotentUla glandulosa Lindl. Five 

 Finger, 

 pa'-sa-wi-gtimp. 




1911.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHIIiADELPHIA. 



71 



Roots used as medicine. Said 

 to be applied as poultice 

 to swollen parts, and also 

 to be used internally. 

 Potentilla pennsylvanica. Five 

 Finger. 



ku'-si-wan-go-gip*. 



ku'-tsa-ga-ti-wo-ra-rat. 

 Potentilla plattensis Nutt. Five 

 Finger. 



I'-ca-ro-dzup. 



[i'-ca, wolf, + to'dzup, q. vid.] 

 Primida parryi Gray. Primrose. 



?pu'-i-pa-si-go. 



?toi'-ya-na(da)-ta-bu-da. 

 Prunus demissa Welpers. Choke 

 Cherry; Wild Cherry. 



to'o-nump. 



tofi'gi-clp. 



The fruit was used as food. 

 For winter use, after gath- 

 ering it was mashed and 

 spread out in layers to dry 

 in the sun. It was then 

 cached like that of the 

 service-berry, previously 

 described. For use, the 

 common method was to 

 grind up the dried fruit, 

 boil in water, and to eat as 

 a sort of mush. A decoc- 

 tion from the bark was 

 used as a "blood medi- 

 cine," bu'-i-na-tsu, in cases 

 where a person was affected 

 with frequent hemorrhages 

 at the nose, etc., or, ac- 

 cording to the Gosiute 

 explanation, when the per- 

 son "has too much blood." 

 The bark was also used as 



a koi'-na-tsu for babies and 

 children. 

 Psevdotsuga douglasii Carr. Doug- 

 las Spruce, 

 wan'-go. 

 Purshia tridentata DC. 

 hi'-na-bi. 



Cf. Cowania, from which the 

 name is extended by many 

 to the present form. 

 Pyrus sambucifolia Cham, and Sc. 

 ?ku'-no-gip. 

 This Ls properly the name of 

 the Elder (Sambucus) and 

 it is doubtful whether the 

 name is properly applied 

 to the present form, which 

 in general appearance 

 resembles it, and hence 

 its specific name. It was 

 hard applied to this form, 

 however. 

 Quercus undidata Torr., var. 

 Scrub Oak; Rocky Moun- 

 tain Oak. 

 kwi'-ni-up. 

 ku'-ni-up. 



The acorns (ku'-ni-ro-ump) 

 were prepared for food in 

 season, but they were not 

 preserved for winter use. 

 Ranunculus aquatilis L. var. 

 mo'-a-pa-on-gop. 



[mo' a + pa'on-gop, moss, etc.] 

 ?pa'mo. 

 Said entire plant sometimes 

 eaten. 

 Ranunculus cymhalaria Pursh, 

 Buttercup; Crowfoot, 

 ni'-u-ru-pam-pi. 

 toi'-gup-a-giint. 




72 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Feb., 



The names refer to the ele- 

 vated cone-shaped heads; 

 toi, elevate, etc., + guj), 

 fruit, + gilnt. The names 

 ; are not wholly specific, 



being applied to some other 

 forms having similar heads. 

 Ranunculus scderatus L. Butter- 

 cup, 

 a'-tam-bl-tclp. 

 ha'tam-bl-tcip. 

 Rhv^ aromatica Ait. var. trilobata 

 Gray. Sumac ; Squaw-berry, 

 i'-tclb. 

 ai'tclb. 

 u'-i-tcft>. 



Berries to some extent eaten. 

 Rhtis toxicodendron L. Poison 

 Oak; Poison Ivy. 

 ta'-da-bi. 

 Rhus glabra L. Sumac; Squaw- 

 berry, 

 an'-ka- ti-w i-ump . 

 afi'-ka-ti-wi-a. 



Berries eaten. The leaves 

 were formerly smoked. 

 Ribes aureum Pursh. Missouri 

 or Black Currant, 

 kai'-i-iimp. 

 po'-go-nup. 

 po'gum-pi. 



The second name, while often 

 used as applying to this 

 species, is also the general 

 term for the currant berry 

 of this and other species, 

 in this usage being broadly 

 the equivalent of our 

 word currant. 

 The fruit of this and the 

 following species, which 



^ seem to have been less 

 important, was used as 

 food and was dried in 

 quantity and preserved for 

 later use in the usual way. 

 Ribes divaricatum Dougl. var. 

 Currant, 

 wi'sa-po-gump. 



The prefixed portion of the 

 name, uH'sa, refers to the 

 prickles born on this 

 species. 

 Ribes lacustre and leptanthum 

 Gray var. brachyanthum. 

 Currant, 

 ai'-go-po-gump. 

 The prefixed or first portion 

 of this compound name 

 means process or thorn, in 

 reference doubtless to the 

 spines of this species. 

 Ribes oxycanthoides L. Currant, 

 toi'-y a-po-go-nup . 

 The name means "mountain 

 currant." 

 Root. 

 tslfi. 

 tsln'ai. 

 Rosa californica and fendleri Cre- 

 pin. Rose, 

 tsi'-o-pi. 



The name means "prickly 

 plant." The berries, known 

 as tsi'ump or dzi'ump, were 

 gathered for food. 

 Rosa nutkana Presl. Rose, 

 ti'-a-bi. 



The berries are spoken of 

 as mo'gon-dzi-ump; which 

 means poison or deleterious 

 rose-berries, these berries 




1911.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



73 



not being regarded as good 

 to eat. 

 Rubus leucodermis Dougl. Rasp- 

 berry, 

 tu'-kwun-dau-wi-a. 

 tu'-kwun-da-wi. 

 Berries eaten. 

 Rid)us nutkanus Moc. Salmon- 

 berry, 

 tu'-kwun-dau-wi-a. 

 wu'-da-un-dl-kup . 



The second name refers to 

 the fact that the berries 

 are sought for food by the 

 bear. The same name is 

 also given to a species of 

 Lonicera, q. vid. 

 Berries eaten. 

 Rudbeckia occidentalis Nutt. Cone- 

 flower, 

 tu'-ro-vi-pam-pi. 

 tu'-ro-pam-pi. 

 tu'-pam-pi. _ 



The names mean simply 

 "black-head," in reference 

 to the color of the cone- 

 shaped flower heads. 

 Rumex salicifolius Welman, etc. 

 Sorrel; Dock, 

 an'-ka-pa-ja-rtimp. 

 an'ka-pai-d j a-rump . 

 an'-ka-pa-tsa-rump. 

 The root furnishes one of the 

 remedies spoken of by the 

 Gosiutes as "blood medi- 

 cines/' " bu'-i-nor-tsu." A 

 decoction of the root is 

 also said to have been used 

 for injection by the rectum 

 in cases of severe con- 



stipation. 



Sagittaria variabilis Engelm. 

 Arrow-head. 



pa'-bo-bu-ip. 



pa'ba-bu-Ip. 



pi'a-pa-bu-ip. 



pi'-a-pa-bo-bu-Ip. 

 Salicornia herbacea I^. Samphire; 

 Glasswort. 



pa'-o-ka; pa'-ho-qa. 



o'-ka. 



Very abundant in many 

 places in Gosiute territory 

 about alkaline and brack- 

 ish w^ater or over damp 

 alkaline areas. This is one 

 of the various chenopoda- 

 ceous plants that contrib- 

 uted seeds so abundantly to 

 these Indians. When the 

 meal from the seeds of this 

 plant was cooked it is 

 described as having tasted 

 like "sweet bread" by 

 those who have eaten it. 

 Salix longifolia Muh., and other 

 species. Willow. 



si'-o-pi. 



si'hip. 

 [The name seems to mean 

 approximately "water or 

 wet wood or plant (shrub 

 or tree)," probably in refer- 

 ence to its habitat. An- 

 other possible meaning 

 would be "sap wood."] 

 The wood was commonly used 

 in the making of baskets, 

 water-jugs, etc., though 

 Cottonwood was by most 

 preferred w^hen accessible. 

 It was used for making 




74 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



[Feb., 



fish-weirs (pdn'gwi-go-up) 

 and for other similar pur- 

 poses. 

 Salix amygdaloides Anders., 

 lasiandra var., and flaves- 

 cens Nutt. Willow, 

 sa'-gu-pi. 

 Also in a general way desig- 

 nated by the name si'-o-pi, 

 as for the preceding, which 

 is used largely in a generic 

 sense. 

 Uses like those of the pre- 

 ceding. 

 Samara of Negundo and Acer. 

 nan'-ki-tco ; nan'-ki-tso. 

 ka'blp. 

 Sambucus glauca Nutt. Elder, 

 pa'-go-no-gwip ; pa'-go-no-glp. 

 Bears eat berries. 

 Sambucus racemosa L. Elder, 

 ku'-no-glp ; ku'-no-gi. 

 ko'-no-glp ; ko'-no-gi. 



The fruit was eaten in season. 

 Sap. 



biic. 

 Saponaria vaccaria L. Soapwort. 

 , sai'-ya-hyu-gln. 



Widely introduced into 

 Nevada and Utah through 

 early emigi*ant travel. 

 Sarcobatus vermiculatus Torr. 



Greasewood. 

 Saxifraga nivalis L. Saxifrage, 

 toi'-y a-gwa-nup . 

 ka'-i-gwa-nup. 



[Prob, toi-ya-bi, mountain, 

 + gwa'-na, odor, -\- iXp.'\ 

 Saxifraga punctata L. Saxefrage, 

 pa'-sa-wi-gun-dza. 

 Cf. Heuchera. 



Scirpus lacustris L. var. occiden- 

 talis Watson. Bulrush; 

 Tule. 

 saip. 



The lower, tender portions 

 of the stems were formerly 

 eaten as food. 

 Scirpus maritimus L. Sea Bul- 

 rush, 

 ai'-bi-baip. 

 saip. 



Cf. Carex hookeriana and 

 utricvlata, which are often 

 grouped under the first 

 names, which is applied to 

 large forms of Carex only, 

 the sedges being strictly 

 spoken of as pa'gi-glp. 

 Sedum glandvlosum, etc. Stone- 

 crop, 

 an'-ka-ti-wi-a. / 



Ijcaves formerly smoked. 

 The plant was ranked with 

 the kinnikinnic (Cornus) 

 because of this use. 

 Seed, 

 ba. 

 bi'a. 

 Seedling. 

 I'-gi-na-ga. 



[This name is from i'-gin, 

 meaning immediate, be- 

 ginning or initial, and a'-ka, 

 plant.] 

 Senecio, several species. Ground- 

 sel, 

 tim'-pi-dza-na-kwo. 



The name means "mouth 

 gum," the equivalent of 

 our "chewing-gum," a 

 chewing-gum having been 




1911. 



NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 



75 



prepared formerly from 

 the latex. 

 Shepherdia argentea Nutt. Buf- 

 falo-berry, 

 aii'-ka-mo-do-nup . 

 afi'-gu-ta-gup. 

 an'- gup. 

 These names refer to the 

 scarlet berries. 

 o'-plp. 



Berries eaten. 

 Shepherdia canadensis Nutt. 

 Buffalo-berry, 

 a'-da-rum-blp. "• 



pi'-a-da-rum-blp. 



Cf. Ceanothus, a'da-rum-bip- 

 dii-ka-sip. 

 Sidalcea malvceflora Gray. 

 , mti'-tsai-kump. 

 mf-ta-kump. 

 mi'-ta-komp. 

 Silene acaidis L. Catchfiy. 

 ttm'-pi-sa-gwup . 

 wa'-si-plt. 



Said to have been used for 

 colic, etc., in children, being 

 a koi'-na-tsu. 

 Silene antirrhina L. Catchfiy. 



oi'-tcu-yo. 

 Silene midticaulis Nutt. and scou- 

 leri Hook. Catchfiy. 

 In cases of " pain in stomach " 

 this plant was sometimes 

 used as an emetic. The 

 method of use was to pound 

 up, put into warm water, 

 and drink. It was also 

 used as a horse medicine or 

 pu)Ygo-na-tsu. 

 Silene menziesii Hook. Catchfiy. 

 yo'-go-ti-wi-ya. 



Leaves formerly smoked as a 

 tobacco, being dried and 

 powdered for this purpose. 

 Sisymbrium canescens Nutt. 

 Hedge Mustard, 

 poi'-ya. 

 po'-nok. 



Seeds were gathered and used 

 for food, being made into 

 a kind of mush that was 

 much liked. 

 Sium cicutcefolium Schrank . Water 

 Parsnip, 

 pa'-o-tim-bite. 

 ?toi'-ya-ro-dzIp. 

 Smilacina amplexicaulis Nutt. 

 False Solomon's Seal, 

 f-dja-pain-po-go-nup. 

 \i'-dju-pa, coyote, -|- n, + 

 po'-go-nup, berry.] 

 I'-ca-bo-gup. 

 i'ca-bo-go-nup. 



[V-ca, wolf, + po'gup, po'-go- 



nUp, berry.] 

 Cf. the name for this plant, 

 y o-go-ta-ma-nump . 



Berries said to be eaten by 

 the bear, and hence the 

 plant is designated as one 

 of a number under the 

 name wu'da-im-di-kftp, 

 "bear food." It is also 

 known from a legendary 

 reference as pun'go-un- 

 da-mi {pun' go, horse, -|- un 

 -\- da'mi.) 

 Smilacina stellata Desf. False 

 Solomon's Seal, 

 pai'ya. 



Roots pounded up and rubbed 

 on limbs in cases of rheu- 




76 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Feb., 



matism. Bears said to eat 

 berries, as with the pre- 

 ceding species. 

 Solanum tuberosum T^. Potato, 

 go'-tsa-win. 



Sometimes spoken of also as 

 dzi'na, the name primarily 

 applied to the Spring- 

 beauty, the bulbs of which 

 were eaten. The potato is 

 cultivated to some extent 

 by the Gosiutes. 

 Solidago canadensis L., nemoralis 

 Ait., spectabilis Gray, etc. 

 Golden-rod. 

 oi'-ylnk. 

 o'-a-ylnk. 



[o^-a-bit, yellow + y^fnk.] 

 Seeds to some extent gath- 

 ered and eaten. 

 Sonchus asper Vill. Sow-thistle, 

 mu'-tci-glp. 



An introduced plant desig- 

 nated by the name applied 

 to the closely allied nature 

 species of Lactuca, which 

 see. 

 Spartina gracilis Trin. Salt Grass. 



na'-da-pu-gu-I-gi. 

 Sphceralcea rivularis Torr. 

 pl-tca-gwa-iiup. 

 toi'-na-ko-nip. 

 koi'-na-komp. 

 Cf. malvastrum. 

 Sphceralcea emoryi Torr. 

 koi'-na-komp. 

 pi'-a-koi-na-komp. 



Cf. malvastrum. This genus 

 in general characteristics 

 is extremely similar to 

 Malvastrum, and it is only 



natural that popularly and 

 by the Indians no wide 

 differences in designation 

 are present. 

 Spiraea ccespitosa Nutt. Meadow- 

 sweet. 



tim-p in-tim-bo-ump . 



tim'-bo-ump. 



tfai'-bi-ma. 



While the leaves are used as 

 a bowel medicine, it is 

 mostly employed as a rem- 

 edy for burns. For this the 

 roots are used. The roots 

 are first freed from dirt 

 and epidermis and then 

 boiled to a pulp, which is 

 applied as a salve to the 

 burned portion, as is de- 

 scribed in the earlier por- 

 tion of this paper. The 

 remedy is highly valued 

 and to the author has 

 seemed efficacious in cases 

 observed. 

 Spiranthes romazoffiana Cham. 

 Ladies' Tresses. 



sai'-gi-tamp. 

 Used as a medicine in vene- 

 real disease — a. tim'-bai- 

 na-tsu. 

 Stachys palustris L, Woundwort. 



toi'-ya-ba-gwa-niip. 



[Cf. composition sub. Lophan- 



thus.] 

 Seeds gathered for food along 

 with those of Lophanthus, 

 Scutellaria, etc., closely 

 related forms known un- 

 der the same name. 




1911.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



77 



Stalk, stem. 



o'ra. 

 StephanomeriaTexigua Nutt. 



mo'-a-giip. 

 Stipa comata Trin. and Pupr. 

 Feather Grass, 

 dai'-gwi-wlq. 

 o'-gwip. 

 o'glp. 

 Stipa speciosa. Feather Grass, 

 o'-gwip. 

 o'-glp. 

 yu'-gwip. 



Cf. Aristida, a genus very- 

 close to the present one. 

 Stipa viridida Trin. Feather 

 Grass, 

 pa'-si-wu-muts. 

 pa'-si-wu. 

 o'gwip. 

 o'gip. 

 Taraxacum officinale Weber. 

 Dandelion, 

 ti'-bo-hi. 

 ti'-bu-i. 

 mu'-tca-glp. 

 mu'-tci-gi. 

 mu'-tca-gi-a. 

 Cf. Crepis. 

 Tetradymia canescens DC. var. 

 inermis Gray, 

 si'-bii-pi. 



Cf. Bigelotia. 

 Townsendia sericea Hook, var., 

 etc. 

 mtits'-em-bi-a-di-kup. 



The name means literally 

 " mountain-sheep food ' ' 

 {muts'em-hi-a, mountain 

 sheep, 4- dl'kup), a name 



referring to its serving as 

 food for the | [mountain 

 sheep. It is not specific. 

 Trifolium, various species. 

 Clover, 

 ton'-tso. 

 Triglochin maritimum L. Ari'ow- 

 grass. 

 pa'-na-wi. 



Mentioned also as one of the 



various pun'go-un-da-mi. 

 Seeds eaten. 

 Trisetum subspicatum Beam, 

 wi'-tcub. 



Also sometimes rtiore gener- 

 ally as ni'a-hlp. 

 Seeds eaten. 

 Troximon aurantiocum Hook, 

 mu-tci-glp. 

 mu'tci-gi-a. 



Leaves sometimes eaten. 

 Troximon sp. 

 ?koi'-nilmp. 

 See Microseria. 

 Typha latifolia L. Cat-tail, 

 to'- imp. 

 [Means mouse or rat.] 

 Seeds eaten. The bristles of 

 the ripe spikes Avere bin-ned 

 off, the seeds becoming 

 roasted or partially so in 

 the process. The seeds 

 were then freed and dealt 

 with as usual. 

 Urtica holosericea Nutt. Nettle, 

 tln'-ai-gop. 

 The name refers to the 

 stinging hairs or nettles. 

 Urtica sp. 

 tu'-i. 




78 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Feb., 



Vacdnium ccespitosum Michx. 

 Belberry; Blue-berry, 

 tf-da-kai-mi-ya. 

 ti'-mai-hya. 



Leaves formerly dried and 

 \ised as a tobacco. Hence 

 grouped with kinnikinnic 

 (Cornus) by the Indians. 

 Valerianella congesta DC. 



a'-pa. 

 Valeriana edvlis Nutt. 

 toi'-ya-blt-um-ba-ga. 

 toi'-ya-bit-um-ba. 



Roots pounded up and rubbed 

 on externally for rheu- 

 matism. Said also to be 

 good on swollen and 

 bruised regions {hai'gwi- 

 na-tsu). Roots eaten. 

 Valeriana sylvatica Banks, 

 ku'yi-kwa-nup. 

 ku'i. 



Said to kill horses. An ar- 

 row poison is said to have 

 been prepared from the 

 root. 

 Veratrum califomicum Durand. 

 False Hellebore. 

 I'-ca-po-go-niip. 

 The name may be rendered 

 ** wolf currant." 

 Vida americana Muhl. Vetch. 



up'-ta-wu-kwa-dju-nlii. 

 Viola cucullata Ait. Violet. 

 ?pe-ku-Ip. 

 Name not specific, 

 Viola palustris L. Violet. 



??dzi'-na-so-so. 

 Wood (general term), 

 o'-pi. 

 wu'-pi. 



Commonly used as the equiv- 

 alent of tree or shrub, 

 i. e., woody plant or even 

 of plant in general. 

 Wyethia amplexicavlis Nutt. 

 pi'-a-ken-dzlp. 



[pi'up, big, + a'-kev^dzlp, 



q. vid.] 

 Seeds formerly gathered as 

 food. The roots furnished 

 a remedy applied exter- 

 nally upon bruised and 

 swollen limbs, etc. 

 Xanthium strumarium var. echina- 

 tum. Cockle-bur. 

 kwi'-tcem-bo-gop . 



The name means "cow" or 

 " bison fruit or berry," 

 Zauschneria californica Presl. 

 mu'-tu-nants-um-b I- j i. 

 mu'-tu-nants-pi-na-di-klnt. 

 The first name means " hum- 

 ming-bird's milk" ; the sec- 

 ond approximately "hum- 

 ming-bird's sugar or sweet 

 food," " humming-bird's 

 nectar." The same name 

 is also applied to Gilia ag- 

 gregata, etc., being of gen- 

 eric character and inde- 

 pendent of the more special 

 names of each form. 

 Zea mais L. Indian Corn ; Maize, 

 ko'-mu. 



korn (from English). 

 Zygadenus nuttalli Gray. Poison 

 Sego. 

 ta'-bi-si-go-up. 

 ta'-bi-tci-gop. 



\ta'-bi, sun, referring to the 

 clustered flowers (Cf. ta'- 




1911.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



79 



bi-si-bu-pi) , + si' -go, + 

 up.] 

 Furnished a medicine used 



as an emetic. Also one 

 used in certain venereal 

 affections {tim'-bai-na-tsu). 



GosiuTE Names with Scientific and English Equivalents. 



a'-da-rum-blp. 



See a'di-rum-bip, the more 

 usual form. 



a'di-rtim-blp. 



Ceanothus velutinus Dougl. 

 New Jersey Tea. 

 Cf. the next name. 

 Symphoricarpos oreophilus Gray. 

 Snowberry. 

 This plant is not known to 

 all under this name, 

 a'-di-rum-b Ip-an-ka-sip . 



Ceanothus velutinus Dougl. 

 New Jersey Tea. 

 By this fuller name dis- 

 tinguished from the Snow- 

 berry by those who desig- 

 nate the latter under the 

 preceding name, 

 ai'-bi-baip. 

 Scirpus maritimus L. Club- 

 rush; Bulrush. 

 Carex hookeriana Dew. Sedge. 

 The name is also sometimes 

 applied to C. utriculata 

 Boott. ; and other, espe- 

 cially larger forms more 

 strictly designated by 

 pa'gi-gip, q. vid. 

 ai'-di-wl-sl-gi-nump. 

 ai'-go-po-gump. 



Ribes lacustre Poir. Currant. 

 Ribes leptanthum Gray, var. 

 brachyanthum. Currant. 



ai-go-u-pi. 



Pinus edulis Eng. Piiion Pine, 

 ai'-gwa-bo-gup. 



Cnicus eatoni Gray. Thistle. 

 Cf. ai-wa-bo-gup. 

 ai'-gwo-bi. 



Opuntia sp. Cactus, 

 ai'-tclb. 



Rhus aromatica Ait. var, trilobate 

 Gray. Sumac. 

 Cf. u'-i-tclb, as the name is 

 often heard in the Skull 

 Valley band, 

 a'-ka. 



Name of a plant not iden- 

 tified with certainty. The 

 seeds are said to have been 

 eaten. 



ai'wa-bo-giip(-gop) . 

 Cnicus eatoni Gray. 

 Cf. ai'gwa-bo-gup. 

 a'-ken-dzlp. 

 Balsamorrhiza hookeri Nutt. 

 More specifically wi'-a-ken- 

 dzlp, q. vid. 

 Balsamorrhiza sagittata Nutt. 

 Arrowroot. 

 More specifically ku'si-a-ken- 

 dzlp, q. vid. 

 a'na-gwa-ntip. 

 Cleome integri folia Torr., and 

 Gray, 

 an-dzup'. 



Cymopterus longipes Watson. 




80 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Feb., 



an'-go-bi. 



Pseudotsuga douglasii Can. 

 Douglas Spruce, 

 afi'-go-g-w a-nup . 

 Juniperus communis va,r. alpina. 

 Cf. wa'-pi. 

 afi'-kai-yump. 



Rhus glabra L. Sumac. 



Shortened from an'-ka-ti-wi- 

 ump, the full form, 

 an'-go-ma-tai-yu. 



See aii'-go-ma-tsai-yu. 

 an'-go-ma-tsai-y u . 

 Deyeuxia canadensis Beam. 



Reed Bent Grass. 

 Deyeuxia stricta Trin. Reed 



Bent Grass. 

 Poa pratensis L. Meadow or 

 Blue Grass. 

 Cf. ni'-a-blp. 

 afi'-go-mu-tsa-wai-ni. 

 afi'-gu-pi; afi'-gup. 

 See afi'-ka-mo-do-nup, from 

 which this is shortened, 

 afi'-k a-koi-nump . 



Sometimes heard in place of 

 aii'-ka-koi-nup, q. vid. 

 an'-ka-koi-nup. 



Same as afi'ka-kwi-nup, the 

 preferred and etymologi- 

 cally more proper pronun- 

 ciation, 

 afi'-ka-kwi-nup. 



Cornus stolonifera Michx. 

 Kinnikinnic. 

 afi'-ka-kwa-tci-up. 

 an'-ka-pa-bu-Ip. 



Polygonum erectum L. 

 an'-ka-pa-dja-rump. 

 Rumex salicifolius Wemman, 

 Dock; Sorrel. 



an'-ka-pai-dja-riimp. 

 Same as preceding, 

 aii'-ka-p a-rump . 



Same as an'-ka-pa-dja-ri&mp. 

 an'-ka-pa-rump . 



Same as an'ka-pa-dj a-rump. 

 afi'-ka-pa-ri-ump. 



Fragaria vesca L. Strawberry, 

 an'-ka-po-gomp. 

 Occasional for an'ka-rao-do- 

 nup, which see. 

 afi'-ka-mo-do-nup. 

 Shepherdia argentea Nutt. 

 Buflfalo-berry. 

 afi'-ka-pu-i. 



See afi'ka-pa-bu-ip, the full 

 form, 

 aii'-ka-si-yu-na. 



Oxyria digyna Comp. Moun- 

 tain Sorrel, 

 aii'-ka-ti-wi-a. 



See an'ka-ti-wi-ump. 

 aii'-ka-ti-wi-iimp . 



Rhus glabra L. Sumac, 

 aii'-ka-tso-nap. 



See an'ka-tso-ni-baip. 

 an'-ka-tso-ni-baip . 

 Lithospermum hirtum Lehm. 

 Gromwell. 

 an'-ka-wa-dzump. 



Eriogonum microthecum Nutt., 

 etc. 

 a'-pa. 



Valerianella congesta DC. 

 a'-po. 



Atriplex truncata Torr. 

 a'-ra-si-mu. 



'^Clematis dou^/lasii Hook. 

 Clematis; Virgin's Bower. 

 See o'bin-da-ma-nump. 




1911.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



81 



a'-tam-bi-tcip. 



Berula angustifolia Koch, 

 ats. 



Amarantus sp. 

 ba. 



Seed, 

 ba'-hwap. 



J uncus halticus Deth. and par- 

 ryi Eng. Bog- rush. 

 See pa'-hwap and pa'-um-up. 

 bi'-a-gint. 



Catkm, female, of willows, etc. 

 bi'-dji-gwa-nup. 



Cleome integrifolia Torr. and 

 Gray, 

 bi'-tci-gwa-ntip . 



Same as the preceding, 

 bf-tca-mok. 



Eriogonum heracleoides Nutt. 

 bl'-tca-mu-kum. 



Eriogonum heracleoides Nutt. 

 Pevx^edanum simplex. 

 biic. 



Sap; juice, 

 dai'-gwi-wlq. 



Stipa comata Trin. and Rupre. 

 Feather Grass, 

 da'-pa-rai-nump . 



Astragalus iodanthus Watson. 

 Rattle-weed, 

 dzi'-na. 



Claytonia caroliniana var. ses- 

 silifolia Torr. Spring- 



beauty. 

 Solanum tuberosum. Potato. 

 Occasional and secondary. 

 Cf. go'tsa-wln. 

 dzi'-na-so-so? 



Viola palustris L. Violet. 

 dzi'-c<ip. 



Atriplex canescens James. 

 6 



go'-ni-na-tsu. 



See toi'na-tsu, the more com- 

 mon form, 

 go'-tsa-win. 



Solanum tuberosum L. Potato, 

 gu'-su-wup. 

 Negundo aceroides Moench. 

 Box-elder, 

 ha'-ta-bi-tclp. 



Ranunculus scderatus L. But- 

 tercup. 

 See a'tam-bi-tclp, the more 

 usual form, 

 hf -bin-gup. 



Usual form. Flower. 



hi'-na-bi. 



Cowania mexicana Don. Cliff 



Rose. 

 Purshia tridentata DC. 

 hu'-gti-pi. 

 See also u'gii-pi, the more usual 

 form in which heard, 

 f-ca-bo-go-nup. 



Veratrum californicum Dur9,nd. 



False Hellebore. 

 Smilacina amplexicaulis Nutt. 

 False Solomon's Seal. 

 See i'dju-pain-po-go-ntlp. 

 f-ca-bo-gup. 



Aeonitum fischeri. Monkshood, 

 See the preceding, 

 f-dja-pa-bo-gop. 

 Same as f ca-bo-go-nup, which 

 see. 

 fca-un-toi-nump. 

 Polemonium coeruleum L. 

 Greek Valerian, 

 i'-djaip. 



Pev^edanum graveolens Watson, 

 etc. 




82 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Feb., 



fdjiim-Am-bu-i. 



Catkin, male, of willow, etc. 

 I'-djii-pain-po-go-nup, 

 SmiLadna amplexicaidis Nutt. 

 False Solomon's Seal. 

 I'gi-na-ga. 



Seedling; germinating plant, 

 fgi-si-a-ka. 



Bud. 

 i'-na-bi. 



See hi'-na-bi. 

 f-sa-yu-gip. 

 Equisetum hiemale L. Scouring 

 Rush. 

 i'-tcft». 

 Rhus aromatica Ait. var. 

 Sumac; Squaw-berry, 

 a. ai'-tclb. 

 i'-Am-pi. 



Hdiardhus annuus L. Sun- 

 flower. 

 i'Ap. 



See the following, 

 i'-u-pi. 



Chenopodium leptophyllum Nutt . 

 Pigweed; Goose-foot, 

 ka'-bip. 



Samara of Negundo, Acer, etc. 

 Cf. naii'-ki-tco. 

 kai'-i-ump. 



Ribes aureum Pursh. Missouri 

 Currant. 

 kai'si-na-bop 



Erigeron macranthus Nutt. 

 ka'-na. 



Lewisia rediviva Pursh. Bitter- 

 root, 

 ka'-na-gwa-na. 



f. Geranium fremonti Torr. Gera- 

 nium; Crane's Bill. 

 Cf. pa'-hu-ip. 



(Enothera ccespitosa Nutt. 

 Evening Primrose, 

 ka'-na-gwa-nu. 



See ka'-na-gwa-na. 

 kan'-gum-pi, 



Grayia polygaloides Hook and 

 Arn. Shad Scale. 

 Cf. mo'-do-nup. 

 kan'-kwai-tcup. 



Hordeum nodosum L. and juba- 

 tum L. Barley, 

 kan'-kwa-tci-up. 



See the preceding, 

 ka'-num-pi; ka-nump. 



Atriplex confertifolia Watson. 

 See sun, the standard name, 

 ko'-ga-bi. 



Monolepis chenopodoidea. 

 ko'-ga-rum-pi, 



Monolepis chenopodoidea. 



koi'-di-glp. 



Castilleia miniata Dougl. 

 Painted-cup. 

 koi'-gwa-nup. 

 koi'-na-komp. 



Malvastrum munroanum Gray. 



False Mallow. 

 Sphaeralcea emoryi Torr. 

 Cf. pi'-a-koi-na-komp. 



koi'-na-tsu. 



General term applied to various 

 medicines and the plants 

 furnishing them which are 

 used in intestinal and stom- 

 ach troubles. See Arenaria, 

 Silene, etc. 



koi'-no-komp. 



Same as koi'na-komp, which 

 see. 




1911.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



83 



koi'-si-na-bop. 



Erigeron macranthus Nutt. Flea- 

 bane. 

 Cf. kai'-si-na-bop. 

 ko'-ka-bi. 



See ko'ga-bi. 

 ko'-mu. 



Zea mais L. Indian Corn. 

 See Korn, 

 ko'-no-gwip. 



Heracleum lanatwn Michx. Cow 

 Parsnip, 

 korn. 



From the English. See ko'-mu. 

 ko'-sa-mu-i-tci-glp. 



ko'-si-bo-q<!in-tos. 



Chcenactis douglasii Hook and 

 Am. 

 Cf. wafi'-gi-glp. 

 ku'-hwa. 



Mentzdia albicaulis Dougl., etc. 

 ku'-i-do-glp. 



See koi'-di-glp. 

 ku'-i-gwa-nup. 



Saxifraga nivalis L. Saxifrage. 

 Cf. toi'-ya-gwa-ntip. 

 ku'-ki-koi-nump . 



Gutierrezia euthamioe Torr. and 

 Gray. Torchweed; Rabbit 

 Brush. 



k<i'-ma-ra-tsi-yu-glp. 



Glyceria aquatica Smith. Reed 

 Meadow Grass. 

 Cf. pa'-si-wump, 

 ktim'-<in-tsi-a. 



Chenopodium rvhrum L. and 

 capitatum Wat. Pigweed; 

 Goose-foot, 

 Cf. on'-tlm-pi-wai. 



koi'-ntimp. 

 Microseris sp. 

 Cf. mo-i'-tci-gip. 

 ku'-ni-ro-ump. 



Acorn, 

 kiiii'-ga. 



Allium bisceptrum Watson and 

 acuminatum Hook. Onion, 

 ku'-ni-up. 



Staminate flowers of Negundo, 

 etc. 

 ku'-no-gi. 



Quercus undvlata Torr. var. 



Scrub Oak. 

 See the following, 

 ku'-no-glp. 



Sambv^ms racemosa L. Elder, 

 ku'-si-a-ka; ku'-si-ak. 



An abbreviated form of ku'-si- 

 a-kln-dzlp, which see. 

 ku'-si-a-ken-dz Ip . 

 Balsamxyrrhiza sagittata Nutt. 

 Arrowroot, 

 ku'-si-p a-hw ats . 



Shortened form of ku'-si-pa- 

 wa-tslp. 

 ku'-si-pa-wats. 



Shortened form of ku'-si-pa- 

 wa-tslp. 

 ku'-si-pa-wa-tslp. 



See ku'tsi-pa-wa-tslp. 

 ku'-si-wan-go-glfp . 



Potentilla pennsylvanica L, 

 Five-finger. 

 ku'-si-wAp. 



Holodiscus discolor var. dumosa 

 maxim, 

 ku'-so-nlp. 



Brizopyrum spicatum Hooker, 

 ku'-si-ya-ni-giint. 

 Krynitzkia fulvocanescens Gray. 




84 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Feb., 



ku'-tsa-ga-ti-wo-ra-rat. 

 Potentilla pennsylvanica L. 

 Five-finger. 

 See kii'-si-wafi-go-glp, supra, 

 kwa'-tci-up. 



Hordeum nodosum L. and jid)a- 

 tum L. Barley. 

 Cf. kan'-kwai-tciip. 

 kwi'ta-kwa-nup. 



Lujyinus leucophyllus Doiigl., 

 parviflorus Nutt., etc. Iai- 

 pine. 

 kwi'-ta-po. 



See the next, 

 kwi'-ta-po-ni. 



Orogenia linearifolia Watson. 



kwf-tcen-bo-gup. 



Xanthium strumarium var. 

 echinatum. Cockle-bur. 

 ma'-ba-so-nlp. 



See mi'-a-ba-so-nlp. 

 mi'-ta-kom. 



See the following word, 

 mi'-ta-komp, 



Sidalcea malvoBflora Gray, 

 mf-ta-kump. 



Same as the preceding, 

 mo'-a-ba-bu-ip. 



Euphorbia montana Engelm., 

 dentata Michx., etc. 

 mo'-a-gup. 



Stephanomeria exigvxi Nutt. 



Anaphalis margaritacea Benth. 

 and Hook. Everlasting. • 



Arnica parryi Gray, 

 mo'-a-gwa-nup. 

 mo'-ha-gup. 



Same as mo'a-gup. 

 mo'a-mu-I-tci-gi. 



Same as the following. 



mo'-a-mu-I-tci-glp. 



Crepis occidentalis Nutt. 

 mo'-a-kump. 



Balsamorrhizalhookeri Nutt. 

 Cf. o'-a-kump^and wi'-a-ken- 

 dzlp. 

 mo'-a-pa-oii- gop . 



Ranunculus aquatilis L. var. 

 mo'-do-biic. 

 mo'-do-nup. 

 Grayia polygaloides Hook and 

 Arn. Shad-scale, 

 mo'-gon-dzi-ump. 



Berries of Rosa nutkana Presl. 

 mo'-no. 

 Deschampsia danthonioides 

 Munro. 

 mo'-ta-ga. 



See mo'-ta-qa. 

 mo'-ta-komp. 

 mo'-ta-ga. 

 Hdenium auiumnale L. Sneeze- 

 weed. 

 Cf. tf-da-ya-gup. 

 Layia glandidosa Hook and Arn. 

 Gymnolomia multiflora Bei^th. 

 and Hook. 

 Cf. I'-ca-mo-ta-ga. 

 The name is properly applied 

 to these and their relatives 

 and has no popular Eng- 

 lish equivalent. As may 

 be seen, these forms in 

 general may have also a 

 more specific designation 

 as well. It is probably 

 used in a more restricted 

 sense for Layia, etc., daisy- 

 like forBL^. 

 mo'-tci-gi. 



See mo'-tci-gtp. 




1911.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



85 



mo'-tci-glp. 



Same as mu'-tci-glp, which see. 

 mu'-a-kump. 



See mo'-a-kump. 

 mu'-ha-ti-bu-i. 



Crepis glauca Torr. and Gray. 

 Cf. mu'-tci-glp. 

 mu'-ha-kum. 



See the next word, 

 mu'-ha-kump. 



Grindelia squarrosa Dunsl. 



Arnica. 

 Hdianthella uniflora Torr. and 

 Gray, 

 mu'-i-tci-gi. 



Same as mu'-i-tci-glp. 

 mu'-i-tci-glp. 



See mu'-tci-glp. 

 mu'-pa-tai-gi-nup . 



Arctium lappa L. Burdock, 

 mu'-tci-gi. 



See the following, 

 mu'-tci-glp. 



Hieradum gracilis Hook and 

 scoideri Hook. Hawkweed ; 

 Thistle. 

 Sonchus asper Vill. Sow- 



thistle. 

 Crepis glauca Torr. and Gray. 

 Lactuca leux^ophcea Gray and 



ludoviciana DC. Lettuce. 

 ITroximon aurantiacum Hook. 

 The word corresponds ap- 

 proximately to the Eng- 

 lish ''thistle/' as popularly 

 used, applying to quite a 

 variety of forms as above 

 indicated. Some of these 

 have theii' more specific 

 designations as indicated 

 under each. 



mu'-tsa. 



tMammilaria sp. Cactus, 

 mu'-tsai-kump. 

 Sidalcea malvceflora Gray. 

 Cf. mf-ta-kump. 

 mu'-tsem-bi-a-di-kiip. 



Tovmsendia sericea Hook, and 

 other alpine forms eaten by 

 the mountain sheep, 

 mu' tu-nants-um-bi- j i . 



Zauschneria calif ornica Presl., 

 Gilia aggregaia, etc. 

 na'-da-pa-ra-na-gint. 



Astragalus iodanthus Watson. 

 Bufifalo-bean. 

 Cf. da'pa-rai-nump. 

 nai'-a-bip. 



See ni'a-blp. 

 na'-na-rlp. 



Linum kingii Watson. Flax, 

 nafi-ki-tco. 

 See naiVki-tso. 



nan'-ki-tso. 



Samara of Negundo, Acer, etc. 

 Cf. ka'blp, 



nan'-tai-bitc. 

 See nan'te-b!tc. 



nan'-te-bltc. 



Gnaphalium sprengelii Hook, 

 and Arn. Cudweed. 



Madia glomerata Hook, 

 ni'-a-ba-so-nlp. 



See ni'-a-blp. 

 ni'-a-bi. 



Same as the following. 



ni'-a-blp. 



Deyeuxia canadensis ' Beauv. 



and stricta Trin. Reed 



Bent Grass. 

 Poa pratensis L. Blue Grass. 




PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Feb., 



Poa tenuifolia Nutt. Bunch 

 Grass; Meadow Grass, 

 nf-di-ba. 



Lycopus sinuatus Ell. Water 

 Horehound. 

 nf-dlp. 



Same as ni'-di-ba, 

 nf-dlp. 



Same as nf-di-ba. 

 ni'-niin-tsai. 



Geum macrophyllum Willd. 

 na'-da-pu-gai-gi. 



Spartina gracilis Trin. Salt 

 Grass, 

 ni'-u-ru-pam-pi. 



Ranunculus cymbalaria Piirsh. 

 Buttercup, 

 nu'-ro-pam-pi. 



Same as preceding, 

 o'-a-kump. 



Balsamorrhiza hookeri Nutt. 

 Cf. mo'-a-kump arid wi'-a- 

 ken-dzlp. 

 o'-Hrpa-dza-ki. 



Eriogonum heracleoides Nutt. 

 and umbellatum Torr. 

 Cf. bf-tca-mu-kum for the 

 first and sa'-na-kun-da for 

 the second, 

 o'-a-tump. 



Avenasativa L. Oats, 

 o'-bln-da-ma-ntimp. 



Clematis douglasii Hook and 

 ligusticufolia Nutt. Vir- 

 gin's Bower, 

 o'-do. 



Shortened from o'do-rop, which 

 seiB. 

 o'-do-rop. 



Same as o'ro-rop, the more 

 usual form. 



o'^p. 



Phalaris arundinacea Jj. Canary 



Grass. 

 AHstida purpurea Nutt. Triple- 

 awned Grass. 

 Cf. o'gwip; u'-gwip; toi'- 

 ya-o-gwlp and yo'nip. 

 oi'-tclp. 



Cratcegu^ oxycanihu^. Thorn, 

 oi'-tcun-goi-djok. 



Sedum debile Watson, etc. 

 Stone-crop, 

 oi'-tcu-mo. 



Eriogonum cernuum Nutt. and 

 inflatum Torr. 



oi'-tcu-o. 



Same as the preceding. 



oi'-tcu-yo. 

 See oi'-tcu-yo. 



o'-ro-rop. 



Agropyrum repens Beauv. 

 Blue-joint. 

 Cf. wa'-don-dzlp and pe'-ga- 

 yu-glp. 

 Elymus canadensis L. Wild 

 Rye; Lyme Grass. 

 Cf. ti'-wa-bi-nip. 

 Elymus sibiricum L. Wild Rye ; 

 Lyme Grass. 



o'-ro. 

 Shortened form of o'-ro-rop, 

 which see. 

 oi'-ylnk. ' 

 Solidago canadensis 1j., nennoralis 

 Ait., etc. Golden-rod. 

 o'-a-ylnk. 



Same as oi'-yink and about 

 equally common with it. 

 Doubtless the original form 

 (o'-a-bit, yellow, + yiiik). 




1911.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



87 



0-ka. 

 Salicornia herbacea L, Sam- 

 phire. 

 Cf. pa'-o-ka, which is the 

 definite and far more fre- 

 quent form, o'ka being 

 narrowly applied to the 

 other plant, 

 on'-tlm-pai-wa. 



Variant from on'-tJm-pi-wa- 

 tslp, which see. 

 on'-tlm-pi-wai. 



See on'-ttai-pi-wa-ts!p. 

 on'-tlfai-pa-wa. 



See on'-tlm-pa-wa-tslp. 

 on'-tlm-pa-wa-ts j[p . 



See on'tim-pi-wa-tsip. 

 on'-tim-pi-a-wa. 



See the following, 

 on'-tlm-pi-wa-tsip . 



Chenopodium ruhrum L. and 

 capitatum Watson. Pig- 

 weed, 

 o'-pi. 



Wood; tree or shrub; plant, 

 pa-at'-ga. 



See pa-otq'-ga. 

 pa'-blp. 

 pa'-bo. 



From pa'-bo-go, which see. 

 pa'-bo-go. 



Cnicus undulatus Gray. Plumed 

 Thistle, 

 pa'-bo-gwo. 



Same as the preceding. 

 pa'-bu-Ip. 



Commonly used as a general 

 term indicating plants 

 growing in water or wet 

 places with the leaves 

 floating or above the water. 



Dodecathion meadia L. Shoot- 

 ing Star. 

 Sagittaria variabilis Engelm. 

 Arrow-head. 

 See pa'bo-bu-ip. 

 pa'-bo-bu-lp. 



Sagittaria variabilis Engelm. 

 Arrow-head, 

 pa'-darwi-si-go-up . 

 p a'-ga-sau-wi-no-up . 



Delphinium bicolor Nutt. and 

 menziesii DC. Larkspur, 

 pa'-gi-glp. 



Carex jamesii Torr., fistira, etc. 



Sedge. 

 Carex utriculata Boott. Sedge. 

 Cf. also ai'-bi-baip. 

 pa'-ga-so-nap. 



Epilobium spicatum L. Wil- 

 low-herb, 

 pa'-go-no-gwip. 



Sambucus glauca Nutt. Elder, 

 pa'-go-no-glp. 



See pa'-go-no-gwip, 

 pa'-go-nu-Ip. 

 pa'-gu-ip. 



Polygonum hartwrightii Gray. 

 pa'-gwa-nAp. 



Mentha canadensis L. Mint, 

 pa'-gwo-dzup. 



Claytonia perfoliata Donn. 

 Spring Beauty, 

 pa'gwo-nilp. 



IChenopodium capitatum Wat- 

 son. Pigweed, 

 pa'-hu-ip. 



Dodecathion meadia L. Shoot- 

 ing Star. 



pa'-hwats. 



Artemisia dracunculoides Pursh. 




88 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Feb., 



paidj. 



Phragmites communis Trin. 

 Reed, 

 pai'-glp. 



Same as pa'-gi-glp, which see. 

 pai'-ya. 



Smiiacina stdkUa Deri. False 

 Solomon's Seal, 

 pai'-ya-bo-sip. 



Lemna. Duck-meat; Duck- 

 weed. 

 Cf. wa'-da-bu-ip. 

 pai'-yo-nlp. 



Juncus hufonius. Bog-rush, 

 pa'-ma-wup. 



Juncus balticus Deth. and par- 

 ryi Engelm. Bog-rush, 

 pa'-hwap. 



See pa'-ma-wtip. 

 pam'-bu-i-up. 



Lycopodium sp. 

 pa'-mu. 

 Nasturtium palv^tre DC. and 



var., etc. Water-cress. 

 tRanuncvlus aquMilis L. var. 



pa'-mo 



See pa'-mu. 

 pa'-na-ti-so. 



Mentha canadensis L. Mint. 

 See pa'-gwa-nup. 

 pa'-na-tsu. 



Apparently the same as the 

 preceding and etymologi- 

 cally preferable in such 

 case {pa, water, -h na'-tsu, 

 medicine), 

 pa'-na-wi. 



Triglochin maritimum L. 

 Arrow-grass, 

 pa'-o-gump. 

 See the next. 



pa-o-gum-pi. 



Aquilegia cosrvlea James. 

 Columbine. 

 Cf. pa-wa-gum-pi. 

 pa'-o-ka; pa-o'-ka. 



Salicornia herbacea L. Sam- 

 phire; Glasswort. 

 pa'-on-gop. 



See pa'ofi-giip. 

 pa'-oii-gup. 

 Hypnum sp. Moss. 

 Polytrichum juniperinum. Moss. 

 See tlm'-pin-pa-bo-i-iip and 

 pi'-a-pa-oii-gtip. 

 pa-otq'-ga. 



Aster adscendens Lindl. Star- 

 wort; Aster, 

 pa'-ra-tl-tsln-bo-gop . 



lArgemone mexicana var. his- 

 pida Gray. Prickly Poppy. 

 Cf. toi'-yan-bo-gop. 

 Probably the full form of 

 pa'tsi-na-bo-gop, which 

 see. 

 pa-o-tlm-bltc. 



Sium cicutifolium Gmelin. 

 Water Parsnip, 

 pa'-ru-sip. 

 pa'-sa-gwdp ; pa'-sa-gwup. 



Cystopteris fragilis Bernh 

 Fern, 

 p a'-tsl-na-b o-gop . 



Cnicu^ sp. Plumed Thistle, 

 pa'-sa-gwo-na-komp. 



See pa'-sa-koi-na-komp. 

 pa'-sa-koi-na-komp . 



Malvastrum coccineum Gray. 

 False Mallow. 

 Cf. koi'-na-komp. 

 pa'-sa-ton-dzlp. 



Hedysarum mackenzii Richard. 




1911.1 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



89 



pa -sa-wi-gump. 



Potentilla glandulosa Lindl. 

 Five Finger, 

 pa'-sa-wi-gtin-dza. 



Heuchera rubescens Torr. and 

 other species. Alum Root, 

 pa'-sa-pa-ofi-gop . 



Glaux maritimum li. Sea 

 Milkwort, 

 pa'-sa-wu-muts. 



Stipa viridula Trin. Feather 

 Grass, 

 pa'-si-hwu. 



See pa'sa-hwu-muts. 

 pa'-si-go. 



See pa'-si-gwip. 

 pa'-si-gwip (pa'-si-go-up); 



Osmorrhiza nuda Torr. Sweet 



Cicely. 

 IGlycosma occidentalis Nutt. 

 pa'-um-up. 



See pa'-ma-wup. 

 pa'-uii-ga. 



Erigeron macranthus Nutt. 

 Fleabane. 

 Cf. kai'-si-na-bo-gop. 

 pau'-wats. 



See pa'hAvats. 

 pa'-wa-pi. 



Juniperus virginiana L. Red 

 Cedar, 

 pa'-wa-sip; pa'-wa-tsip. 

 pa'-yam-pa; pa'-yamp. 

 pi'-a-da-bi-wtimp. 



See pi'-a-ta-bi-wump. 

 pi'a-ga. 



?Eriogonum inflatum Torr. 

 Probably not specific, 

 pi'-a-koi-na-komp . 



Sphceralcea emoryi Torr. 



pi'-a-ken-dzlp. 



Wyethia amplexicaidis Nutt. 

 pi'-a-ku-hwa. 



Mentzelia Icevicavlis Torr. and 

 Gray, 

 pi'-a-mo-a-gup. 



See pi'-a-mo-ha-giip. 

 pi'-a-mo-ho-gup. 

 pi'-a-nank. 



Mitella trifida Graham. Mitre- 

 wort. 

 pi'-a-pa-bu-Ip. 



Sagittaria variabilis Engelm. 

 Arrow-head. 

 See pa'-bo-bu-Ip. 



pi'-a-pa-oii-gop. 



Polytrichum juniperinum. Moss, 

 pi'-a-pa-otq-ga. 



Helianthella uniflora Torr. and 

 Gray. 

 Cf. mu'ha-kiimp. 

 pi'-a-koi-na. 



Arabis retro fracta Gray, 

 pi'-a-po-gop. 



Glycosma occidentalis Nutt. 

 pi'-a-pa-wa-g^mp . 

 pi'-a-pa-on-gop-pai-d j a-rump . 



Polygonum amphibium L. 

 pi'-a-ra-d<im-blp. 



Lonicera utahensis Watson and 

 involucrata Banks. Wood- 

 bine, 

 pi'-a-ba-rum-b Ip . 



See pi'-a-ra-dum-blp. 

 pi'-a-si-bo-i-nup . 



Same as the following, 

 pi'-a-si-bo-i-up. 



Arabis retrofracta Gray. Rock 

 Cress, 

 pi'-ats. 




90 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Feb., 



pi'-a-ta-bi-w\imp . 



Orthocarpus linearifolius Benth. 

 Cf, ta'-bi-wump. 

 pi'-a-sonlp. 

 pi'-a-wa-da. 



Artemisia biennis Willd. 



Cf. on'-tlm-pi-a-wa and wa'- 

 da. 

 pr-ga-dlt. 



See pf ga-yu-glp. 

 pf-ga-yu-glp. 



Agropyrum repens Beauv. 

 Blue-joint, 

 pf-tca-gwa-nup. 



Sphceralcea rivularis Torr. 



pi'-wa-nup. 



lAsclepidiora decumbens Gray. 



pi'-o-ra. 



A rather indefinite name 

 applied loosely to Hedysa- 

 rum and other tall or 

 chimbing Legiiminosae. 

 pi'-a-ka-gwa-nup. 



Stachys palustris L. Wound 

 Wort. 

 Only occasionally so desig- 

 nated, being commonly 

 known as toi'-ya-ba-gwa- 

 nup, which see. 

 po'-go. 



See po'-gwo. 

 po'-go-nup. 



Currant (general term); berry. 

 Ribes aureum Pursh. Missouri 

 Currant, 

 po'-gump. 



See po'-go-nup. 

 po'-gwo. 



Cnicus eatonijGirsiy. Thistle. 



po'-ho-bi. 



Artemisia tridentata Nutt. 

 Sage-brush. 



po'-ho-ru. 



Aphyllon fasdcidatum Torr. 

 and Gray. Cancer-root, 

 poi'-na. 



See poi'-ya. 

 poi'-ya. 

 Sisymbrium canescens Nutt. 

 Hedge Mustard, 

 po'-nak. 



See poi'-ya 

 pu'-i-ba-u. 



Nicotiana attenuata Torr. To- 

 bacco, 

 pu'-i-di-kup. 



Medicago sativa L. Lucern; 

 alfalfa, 

 pu'-i-dl-sas. 



Erigeron leiomerus Gray. 



Fleabane. 

 IMonardella odoratissima Genth. 

 pu'-i-pa-si-go. 



Primida parryi Gray. Prim- 

 rose. 

 Cf. toi'-ya-na-ti-bu-da. 

 pul-i-wa-nup. 



Eriogonum brevicaide Nutt. 

 puii-go-na-tsu. 



A general term applied to a 

 considerable number of 

 plants used as remedies 

 for horses {puii'-go, horse, 

 -\- na'-tsu, medicine). Such 

 are Galium aparine, Lygo- 

 desmia, Silene multicaidis, 

 etc. 

 pu'-i-si-a-ka. 



General name for green or 

 growing plants {pu'-i-bit, 




1911.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



91 



green, + si'-a-ka, plant, 

 which see). 

 pM-go-un-da-mi. 



A somewhat general term 

 applied to a number of 

 plants (from pun-go, horse, 

 + iln, possessive, + 

 da'-mi). 

 Smilacina amplexicavlis Nutt. 

 and Triglochin maritimum 

 L. are among the plants 

 grouped under this name, 

 utterly divergent forms 

 being brought together 

 upon a basis other than 

 resemblance to each other, 

 ri'-a-bi. 



Rare for ni'-a-bi, which see. 

 sa'-gu-pi. 



SdLix amygdaloides Anders., 

 lasiandra Benth., flaves- 

 cens Nutt. Willow, 

 sai'-gi-tamp. 

 Spiranthes romazoffiana Cham. 

 Ladies' Tresses, 

 saip. 

 Scirpus lacustris L. var. occi- 

 dentalis W. Bulrush, 

 sai'-ya-hyu-gln. 



Saponaria vaccaria. Soapwort. 

 sa'-na-kiin-da. 



Eriogonum microthecum Nutt., 

 ovalifolium Nutt., umbella- 

 tum Torr., etc. 

 sa'-na-kint. 



See sa'-na-kiin-da. 

 si'-a-ka. 



Plant, branch, shoot, etc. 

 sr-bi. 



Phlox longifolia Nutt. Sweet 

 William; Phlox. 



si'-bo-i-up. 



Cleome lutea Hook, 

 si'-bo-i-timp. 



Nasturtium palustre DC. var. 

 Water-cress, 

 si'-bii-pi. 

 Bigelovia douglasii Gray. Greater 

 Rabbit-brush ; R a y 1 e s s 

 Golden-rod. 

 Tetradymia canescens DC. var. 

 so'-ho-bi. 



Popidus angustifolia James. 

 Cottonwood, 

 si'-hlp. 



See si'-o-pi. 

 sf-gi. 



Leaf, 

 si'-go, 



Calochortus nuttallii Torr, and 

 Gray, Sego, 

 si'-na-tsu, 

 sln-gup. 



See slfi-gu-pi, 

 sin'-gu-pi, 



Populus tremuloides Michx, 

 Quaking Aspen, 

 si'-o-pi. 



General name for species of 

 Salix corresponding to 

 the English "willow." 

 The several types of wil- 

 lows, or rather some of 

 them, have in addition 

 more special names. See 

 under Salix in preceding 

 list, 

 si'-wiimp, 



Glyceria distans Wahl, and ner- 

 vata Trin. Manna Grass, 

 Cf. also tai'-gwi-bi for the 

 latter. 




92 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Feb., 



so^-go-ha-gwip. 



Bryum sp. Moss, 

 san'-aii-go-bi. 



Ahies menziesii Lindl. Balsam, 

 so'-ai-tump. 



Agaricus. Mushroom, 

 so'-ko-ri-bo-ump . 



Bryum sp. (same as preceding). 

 Moss, 

 so'-ko-ri-ump. 



Berberis repens Lindl. Oregon 

 Grape, 

 so'-nlp. 



General term corresponding 

 to the English "grass." 

 sun. 



From su'-no, which see. 

 su'-no. 



Atriplex confertifolia Watson, 

 ta'bl-tci-gop. 



See ta'-bi-si-go-Ap. 

 ta'-bi-si-go. 



From ta'bi-si-go-iip, which see. 

 ta'-bi-si-go-tip. 



Zygadenus nuttallii Gray. 

 Poison Sego. 

 ta'-bi-ci-pomp. 



See ta'-bl-tci-pomp. 

 ta'-bi-si-bu-pi. 



Bigelovia pvlchella Gray. Rab- 

 bit Brush, 

 ta'-bi-tci-pomp. 



See ta'bi-si-btl-pi. 

 ta'-da-bi. 



Rhus toxicodendron Ij. Poison 

 Oak or Ivy. 

 tai'-gwi-bi. 



Glyceria nervata Trin. 



Cf. si'-wump, also applied in 

 more general way to this 

 plant. 



ta'-bi-wump. 



Orthocarpos linearifolius Benth. 

 Cf. pi'-a-ta-bi-»wiimp. 

 ta'-ka-dl-di-a-riip. 



Abronia fragrans Nutt. Sand 

 Puff, 

 ta'-kan-dl-dai-kup . 



See ta'kan-di-dl-di-a-giip. 

 ta'-kan-dl-di-a-giip. 



Erigeron grandiflorus Hook. 

 Fleabane. 

 ta'-kum-bu-i. 



Polygonum hartwrightii Gray. 

 Cf. pa'-gu-Ip. 

 ta'-ni-ktimp. 



Arnica cordifolia Hook. 

 ta'-tslp. 



Pachystina myrsinites Raf . Box. 

 tci'-cop. 



Eurotia lanata Moq. White 

 Sage, 

 te'-e-pa-ga-sa-wiip. 

 ti'-a-bi. 



Rosa nutkana Presl. Rose. 

 ti'-a-sa-ton-dzi. 



Astragalus utahensis Torr. and 

 Gray. Rattle-weed. 

 Cf. to'-sa-wu-da. 

 ti'-ba. 



Pine nuts; nuts of Pinus m,ono- 

 phylla. 



ti'-a-tso-nap. 

 ti'-ba-wa-ra. 



Pinus edulis. Pinon Pine, 

 ti'-ba-wa-na-ma-tsa-mo-gi. 

 ti'-ba-un-gop. 



Pine Cone; cone of Pinus 

 monophylla. 

 ti'-bo-hi. 



Taraxacum officinale Weber. 

 Dandelion. 




1911.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



93 



Michx. 



James. 



L. and 

 Sneeze- 



tf-da-kai-mi-ya. 



Vaccinium ccespitosum 

 Bilberry, 

 tf-da-pa-wa-gump. 

 Aquilegia ccerulea 

 Columbine. 

 See pa'wa-gump. 

 tf-da-ya-gup. 



Helenium autumnale 

 hoopesii Gray, 

 weed. 

 Cf. mo'ta-qa and toi'ya-mo- 

 ta-qa. 

 tf-nai-hya. 



Cf. tlm'ai-hya. Mountain Tea. 

 tim'-bai-na-tsu. 



General name for medicines 

 used in sexual diseases or 

 for plants furnishing such, 

 tlm'-bai-wi-gun-dza. 



Parnassia parmflora DC. Grass 

 of Parnassus, 

 tim'-bai-wi-gun-ta. 



See tim'bai-wi-gun-dza. 

 tim'-bi-mo-a-gw a-ntip . 

 Aplopappus macronema 

 and parryi Gray, 

 tim'-bi-ma. 



See tim'bo-ump. 

 ttai'-pln-ba-bu-ip. 



See tim'pin-pa-bo-i-iip. 

 tim-pln-pa-bo-i-up. 



Polytrichum juniperinum. Moss. 

 Cf. pa^-ofi-gop. 

 tlm'-bo-ump. 



See tlm'-pin-tlm-bo-i-ump. 

 tlm'-p in-tlm-bo-i-ump . 



Spircea ccespitosa Nutt. 

 tim'-ba-ip. 



Heard occasionally for the 

 preceding and applied gen- 



Gray 



erally to various other 

 plants growing on cliffs 

 and over rocks, 

 tim'-pi-sa-gwup . 



Silene acaulis L. Catchfly. 

 tim'-pi-sa-wap. 

 t im'-p In-so-kup . 



General name for lichen, 

 tim'-pi-dza-na-kwo. 



Senecio, several species, the 

 latex of which was used 

 for preparing chewing-gum. 

 Groundsel, 

 t Im'-p In-tu-ntimp . 



Kalmia glauca Ait. American 

 Laurel, 

 tin'-a-blp. 



Poa californica Mimro. Meadow 

 Grass. 

 Cf. ni'a-blp. 

 tffi'-go-ip. 

 See tin'-gwip. 



tffi'-gwip. 



Chamcebatiaria milli folium Max- 

 im. 

 IHolodiscus discolor var. du- 

 mosa. 

 tf-nai-gop. 



Urtica holosericea Nutt. Nettle. 

 tl'-sas. 



Erigeron glabellus Nutt., var. 

 Fleabane. 

 tf-so-nlp. 



Alopecurus aristulatus Mx. 

 Foxtail Grass, 

 tln'-tslii-ga. 



Cnicus drummondi Gray. 

 Plumed Thistle. 

 Cf. also tsln'-ga. 




94 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



[Feb, 



ti'-iim-pi. 



Amelanchier alnifolia Nutt. 

 Service-berry, 

 ti'-wa-bi-nlp. 



Elymus canadensis L. Wild 



Rye. 



Cf. o'-ro-rop. 

 ti'-ya-gup. 



Helenium autumnale L. and 

 hoopesii Gray. Sneeze- 

 weed. From tf-da-ya- 

 giip, q. vid. 



to'-bai-ba-bi. 



Bromus hreviaristatus Thurl., 

 etc. Brome Grass. 



to'-bai-bi. 



See to'-bai-ba-bi. 



to'-go-un-go-na. 



Castilleia parviflora Bong., 

 minor Gray. Indian Paint- 

 brush, 

 to'-dztip. 



Fenda midtifida Gray, 

 to'-ho-bai-bi. 



See to'-bai-ba-bi. 

 to'-ho-bi. 



Same as to'bai-ba-bi, being a 

 shortening of the preceding 

 form, 

 to'-ho-bi-so-nlp. 



Probably another form for 

 Bromus. 

 toi'-dl-sas. 



See toi'-ya-dl-sas. 

 to'- Imp. 



Typha latifolia L. Cat-taU. 

 toi'-gu-pa-gunt. 



Eriogonum villifiorum. 

 Plantago eriopoda Torr., pata- 

 gonica Jacq., etc. 



toi'-ya-ba-gwa-n^p. 



Lophanthus urticifolius Benth. 

 Dracocephalum parviflorum 



Nutt. Dragon-head. 

 Scutellaria sp. Skullcap. 



General term for these closely 

 related labiales, the seeds 

 of all of which were gath- 

 ered and used for food in 

 the same manner, 

 toi'-y a-ba-gwo-no-glp . 



Actoea spicata L. Baneberry. 

 toi'-ya' a-hv/ip. 



See toi'ya-ba-o-pi. 

 toi'-ya-ba-o-pi. 



Aplopappus suffruiicosv^ Gray, 

 macronemxi Gray, 

 toi'-ya-ba-gwa-dzup. 

 Hydrophyllum ocddentale Gray, 

 capitatum. Waterleaf. 

 toi'-ya-bln-da-tslp. 



Jamesia americana Torr. and 



Gray. 

 Symphoricarpos areophilu^ Gray. 

 Snowberry. 

 toi'-ya-bt-tum-ba-ga. 



Valeriana edvlis Nutt. 

 toi'-ya-bi-ttim. 



See toi'ya-bi-ttlm-ba-ga. 

 toi'-y a-bo-go-ntip , 

 toi'-ya-da-tslp. 



See toi'ya-bi-tAm-ba-ga. 

 toi'-ya-da-ti-go-ra. 



Erigeron glabdlu^ Nutt. Flea- 

 bane. 

 Cf. under Erigeron in pre- 

 ceding list, 

 toi'-ya-da-ti-bu-da. 



Wrimula parryi Gray. Prim- 

 rose. 

 ? Polygonum viviperum L. 




1911.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



95 



toi'-y a-tlm-ba-dz ap . 



Arenaria triflora var. obtusa 

 Watson. Sandwort, 

 toi'-ya-mo-gup. 

 See the next word, toi'-ya-mo- 

 ha-gup. 

 toi'-y a-mo-ha-gtip . 



Anemone multifida Poir. Wind- 

 flower, 

 toi'-y a-mo-ta-gomp . 



Mertensia alpina Don. Lung- 

 wort, 

 toi'-ya-mu-ti-ga. 



Hdenium hoopesii Gray. Sneeze- 

 weed. 

 Cf. tf-da-ya-giip. 

 toi'-ya-na-bo-gop . 



Argemone mexicana var., his- 

 pida Gray. Prickly Poppy, 

 toi'-ya-na-ti-bu-da. 



See tol'-ya-da-ti-bu-da, 

 toi'-y a-gwa-nup . 



Saxifraga nivalis L. Saxifrage, 

 toi'-ya-o-gwip. 



Aristida purpurea Nutt. 

 Triple-awned Grass. 

 Cf. o'-gwJp and yo'-nKp. 

 toi'-ya-dl-sas. 



Chrysopsis villosa Nutt. Golden 

 Aster, 

 toi'-ya-ra-ta-boi-ya. 

 toi'-ya-ro-dzlp. 



Sium cicutifolium Gmelin. 

 Water Parsnip, 

 toi'-ya-sa-ton-dzi. 

 toi'ya-ta-son-dzi. 

 toi'-y a-si-wump . 



Festv^a ovina var., brevi folia 

 Watson. Fescue Grass, 

 toi'-y a-o-ro-rop . 

 toi'-ya-so-nip. 



Deschampsia coespitosa Beauv. 

 var. Hair Grass. 

 toi'-ya-wiin-ta-mu-ta-qa. 

 toi'-ya-wi-tum-ba-ga. 

 Erythronium grandiflorum Pursh. 

 Dog-tooth Violet. 

 The full form is probably toi'- 

 ya-wiint-um-ba-ga (toi'- 

 ya-wiint, canyon.) Con- 

 trast toi'-ya-bl-tum-ba-ga 

 {toi'-ya-bi, mountain), 

 toi'-ya-wl-tum-ba. 



See toi'-ya-bl-ttim-ba-ga, from 

 which this is shortened, 

 toii'-gi-clp. 



Prunus demissa Walpers. 

 Choke-cherry. 

 Cf. to'-o-nump. 

 ton'-tso. 



Trifolium, various species, cor- 

 responding in usage pre- 

 cisely, or nearly so, to our 

 English word " clover." 

 to'-no-pi. 

 to'-pai-ba-bi. 



See to'bai-ba-bi. 

 to'-pai-bi. 



Shortened from to'pai-ba-bi. 

 to'-sa-na-tsu. 



A koi'-na-tsu prepared from 

 or consisting of the roots 

 of Heu/^hera rubescens Torr. 

 and related species and of 

 species of Mitella, which see 

 in the preceding list. 

 Sometimes applied to the 

 plants themselves, 

 to'-sa-wu-da. 



Astragalus utahensis Torr. and 

 Gray. Rattleweed. 




96 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Feb., 



For significance see under 

 this name in the preceding 

 Hst. 

 to'-o-niimp. 



Prunus demissa Walpers. 

 Choke-cherry. 

 Cf. ton'-gi-cip. 

 toi'-y a-wan-go-glp . 



?Ivesia gordonia Torr. and 

 Gray, 

 toi'-ya-bo-go-nup. 



Ribes oxycanthoides L. Currant, 

 toi'-ya-po-go-nup. 



Same as the preceding, 

 tsf-gi-tump. 



(Enothera biennis L. Evening 

 Primrose, 

 tsi'-na. 



See tsln'-ga-bo-gop. 

 tsi'-na-bo-gop. 



Cnicus drummondi Gray. 



Plumed Thistle. 

 Cnicus undidatus Gray, 

 tsffi'-ga. 



See tsln'-ga-bo-gop. 



tslii'-ga-bo-gop. 



Same as tsi'na-bo-gop, and the 



preferable form. 

 Cnicus drummondi and un- 

 dulatus Gray. Plumed 

 Thistle, 

 tsi'-iimp. 



Berries of Rosa californica and 

 fendleri Crepin. 

 tsi'-o-pi. 



Rosa californica and fendleri 

 Crepin. Rose, 

 tsom'-ba. 



Same as tsom'-bai-bi. 

 tsom'-bai-bi. 



Same as tso'-ni-baip. 



tso'-ni-baip. 

 Lithospermum pilosum Nutt. 

 and mvltifiorum Torr. 

 tso'-nap. 



Same as tso'ni-baip, which see. 

 tso'-hwa. 

 tu'-go-wa-tslp. 



Chrysopsis villosa Nutt., etc. 

 Golden Aster, 

 tu'-go-wi-nup. 



Pentstemon confertus Dougl. var. 

 tu'-hi-niip. 



Cercocarpus parvifoliv^ Nutt. 

 tu'-i. 



Urtica sp. 

 tu'-ku-ba-giimp. 



Delphinium bicolor Nutt. and 

 menziesii DC. Larkspur, 

 tu'-kwun-da-mi. 



See tu'-kwun-dau-wi-a. 

 tu'-kwun-dau-wi-a. 

 Rvhus leucodermis Dougl. 

 Raspbeny. 

 tu'na. 



Cymopterus montanus Torr. and 

 Gray, 

 tu'-nam-pi. 



Cercocarpus ledifolius Nutt. 

 Mountain Mahogany, 

 tu'nump. 



Same as tu'-nam-pi, which see. 

 tu'-pam-pi. 



See tu'-ro-vi-pam-pi. 

 tu'-ro-pam-pi. 



Shortened from tu'-ro-vi- 

 pam-pi, which see. 

 tu'-ro-sip. 



Ambrosia psilostachya DC. 



Ragweed. 

 Iva axilaris Pursh. 

 tu'-ro-vi-pam-pi. 




1911.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



97 



Rudheckia ocddentalis Nutt. 

 Cone-flower, 

 tu'-si-gip. 



Epilobium coloratum Muhl. 

 Willow-herb, 

 tu'-tom-pi. 



A shrubby plant mentioned by 

 Indians, but not identified 

 by the author, 

 u'-di-up. 



Betula occidentalis Hook. Birch, 

 u'-gai-gut. 

 u'-gii-pi. 

 Beckmannia cruciformis Host. 

 Slough Grass, 

 u'-i-tclb. 



See ai'-tcft). 

 u'na-tso-mo-gi. 

 Humidus Iwpvlus L. Hop. 

 Cf. wa'-na-na-tso-mo-gi. 

 u'sa. 



Epilobium alpinum L. Willow- 

 herb, 

 u'-gu-dzup. 



Alnus incana Willd. Alder, 

 wa'-bi. 



Melica pooeoides Nutt. Melic 

 Grass, 

 wa'da. 



Suaeda depressa Watson. Sea- 

 bUte. 

 wa'-don-dzlp. 



Agropyrum repens Beauv. 

 Blue-joint. 

 See also under Agropyrum in 

 the preceding list, 

 wai. 



Oryzopsis aaspidata Benth. 

 Mountain Rice. 

 wa'-da-bu-ip. 



Lemna sp. Duckweed. 

 7 



wai-ump. 



Probably full form for wai, but 

 only rarely heard, 

 wai'-a-na-tsu. 



General term for medicines used 

 for burns or for plants 

 producing such, 

 wa'-na-ma-tsa-mo-gi. 



See next word, 

 wa'-na-na-tsa-mo-gi. 



Humulus lupvlus L. Hop. 

 wa'-na-tsi-mu-gi. 



See preceding word, 

 wan'-di-wa-slp. 



See wan'-di-wa-sump. 

 wan'-di-wa-sump. 



Epipactis gigantea Dougl. 

 wan'-gln-glp. 



Chcenactis douglasii Hook. 

 and Arn. 

 Cf. ko'-si-bo-q<in-tos. 

 waii-go-g!p. 



Achillea millefolium L. Yarrow, 

 wa'-nup. 



Humulus lupvlus L. Hop. 

 Cf. wa'-na-na-tsa^mo-gi. 

 wa'-na-glnt. 



Potentilla fruticosa L. Five- 

 finger. 

 Cf. wa'-tsi-glnt. 

 wan'-go. 



Pseudotsuga douglasii Carr. 

 Douglas Spruce. 

 Cf. afi'-go-bi. 

 wan'-dzi-baip. 



Eleocharis palustris R. Br. 

 Spike Rush, 

 wa'-pi. 



Juniperus californica var. 



utahensis, etc. 

 niper. 



Cedar; Ju- 




98 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Feb., 



wap'-iim-pi. 



Cedar berries; fruit of Junip- 

 erus californica var. uta- 

 hensis. 

 wa'-si-p!t. 



Silene acavlis L. Catchfly. 

 See also tim'-pi-sa-gwtip. 

 wa'-tslp. 

 Bark. 

 wa'-tsi-gAnt. 



Potentilla fruticosa L. Five- 

 finger. 

 Cf. wa'-na-giint. 

 wi'-a-ken-dzlp. 



Balsamorrhiza hookeri Nutt. 



wi'-kiin-dza. 

 See wi'-gun-dza. 



wi'-gun-dza. 



Heuchera rubescens Torr. Alum- 

 root, 

 wi'-gon-dzlp. 



1 Ranunculus sp. 



win'-au-tsaug. 



A gum or mucilage prepared 

 from Malvastrum munro- 

 anum and used on the 

 inside of earthen vessels 

 as a filling. Also the name 

 is sometimes applied to 

 the plant itself, 

 wi'-na-go. 



Fritillaria pudica Spreng. 

 Lily; Yellow Bell; But- 

 tercup, 

 wi'-tciip. 



Trisetum suhspicatum Beauv, 

 v'l'-sa-po-go-niip. 



Ribes divaricatum Dougl. 

 Currant. 



wf-sa-po-gtimp. 



Same as wf sa-po-go-nAp, which 

 see. 



wi'-djan-gwo-djop. 



Arenaria triflora var. obtusa 

 Watson. Sandwort. 

 Cf. toi'yan-tlm-ba-dzap. 

 wu'-da-wa-nup . 



Apocynum androsaemifolium L. 

 Indian Hemp; Dogbane, 

 wu'-si-bln-glnt. 



Phacelia menziesii Torr. and 

 circinata Jacq. 

 wu'-si-giint. 



Same as wu'-si-biii-gint, which 

 see. 



wu'-da-iin-dl-ktip. 



A somewhat general term ap- 

 plied to a number of plants 

 which are eaten or the 

 fruit of which is eaten by 

 bear. Such are Lonicera, 

 Smilacina, etc., which, of 

 course, have in addition 

 their more special desig- 

 nations. See under the re- 

 spective names in the pre- 

 ceding list. 



wu'-bu-i-nup. 



Lepidium intermedium Gray. 

 Peppergrass. 



wu'-pi. 



Wood, woody plant, stick, etc. 

 Cf. o'pi. 

 yamp. 



See yam'-pa. 

 yam'-pa. 



Carum gairdneri Benth. and 

 Hook. 




1911.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 



y am'-p a-gwa-ntip . 



Er odium cicutarium L'Her. 

 Alfilaria; Crane's-bill, 

 yo'-go-ti-wi-ya. 



Silene menziesii Hook. Catch- 



fly. 



yo'-go-ti-wi-yu. 



See the preceding word, 

 yo'-nlp. 



Aristida purpurea Nutt. Triple- 

 awned Grass. 



yo'-ni-co-nlp. 

 See yo'-ni-so-nlp. 



yo'-ni-so-nlp. 



?Deschampsia danthonioides 



Munro. ?Hair Grass. 

 Glyceria distans Wahl. Manna 

 Grass. 



Festuca tenella Willd. 




100 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



A NOTE ON THE GENUS LOLLIGUNCULA. 



BY S. S, BERRY. 



In 1881 Professor Steenstrup, as a note to the French resiim6 of his 

 paper on '' Sepiadarium og Idiosepius" {K. Danske Vidensk. Sdsk. 

 Skr., 6 R., I, 1881, p. 242), wrote as follows: 



" Le Loligo brevis de Blainv. est pour moi le type d'un genre a part : 

 Lolliguncida. Parmi les especes connues dii genre Loligo Lmk., cette 

 espece, si bien caracterisee par ses nageoires epaisses, larges et tres 

 courtes, formant dans leur ensemble un ovale transverse, est la seule 

 dont les famelles regoivent les spermatophores siir la paroi interieure 

 du manteau, a cote de la branchie gauche. 



Le male du Loligo brevis, ainsi que celui du Loligo brevipinna Les., 

 si ce dernier est r^ellement une espece distincte, ne m'^tant pas connu, 

 la place systematique du genre nouveau est pour moi encore un peu 

 deuteuse." 



L. brevis is an Atlantic form, but I have lately encountered a species 

 from the opposite coast of Middle America which may prove to belong 

 to the same genus. 

 LoUiguncula (?) panamensis n. sp. Plate VI. 



Body of moderate size, plump and compact for Loligo, resembling 

 L. brevis of Blainville in general shape, but even wider and more 

 swollen. Mantle margin obtusely angled above, and produced for- 

 ward more acutely on either side of the siphon; broadly emarginate 

 below. Fins large, rhomboid, with an obtusely rounded outline; 

 more than half as long as the mantle; lobate in front, and barely 

 continuous behind around the blunt posterior end of the body. Mantle 

 connectives large and prominent, but offering no especial peculiarities 

 of structure. 



Head small, much narrower than the body; squarish; deeply 

 excavated below. Eyes rather large, a low, transverse, membranous 

 crest just behind them. Siphon large and broad, much compressed, 

 and supported by bridles. 



Arms rather small, decidedly unequal ; order of length 4 = 3, 2, 1 ; 

 the dorsal pair considerably the smallest and shortest. Suckers 

 small, in two rows, obliquely set on short peduncles ; horny rings armed 




1911.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



101 



with 11-15 short, broad, squarely truncate teeth, which become 

 nearly or quite obsolete on the lower edge. All the arms except the 

 ventral pair are connected at the base by a very short and thin um- 

 brella. 



Hectocotylization unknown. 



Buccal membrane well-developed, seven-pointed, the four ventral 

 points attached to the arms, but the three dorsal lappets free, except 

 at the base, and armed at the tips with from 5 to 7 minute suckers. 



Tentacles longer than the mantle; club with four rows of suckers, 

 the two inner the larger, but all becoming subequal and very minute 

 distally ; horny rings of the large median suckers with from 23 to 27 

 rather small acute teeth, much reduced on the lower edge. 



Gladius thin, very deep, with broad expanded wings, very much 

 like L. brevis. 



Fig. 1 . — Lolliguncula (?) panamensis, n. sp. Dorsal and lateral aspects of gladius. 



Chromatophores small, very evenly distributed over the body 

 ever^'where except on the under surface of the fins. 



Habitat. — Panama (Hopkins Expedition); Guayaquil, Ecuador 

 (P. O. Simons). 



Types in the Museum of Stanford University. 



This is a striking species, differing so prominently from both its 

 congeners in the same region (Loligo gahi d'Orbigny and L. diomedece 

 Hoyle) that special comparison with these is quite unnecessary. It 

 certainly appears nearest to Lolliguncida brevis (Blv.), but the speci- 

 mens bear no spermatophores and hence is my uncertainty as to their 

 true generic position. The general form of the body and relative 

 length of the arms among other features are essentially very similar, 

 but the smaller size of L. brevis, its relatively shorter and more rounded 

 fins, and sparser toothing of the horny rings are characters to be noted. 



My comparison has been with typical L. brevis from the Brazilian 




102 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [Feb., 



coast and not the similar or nearly allied forms from the West Indian 

 and Florida regions, which may or may not be the same species. 

 Specimens have been reported from the latter region which are appar- 

 ently intermediate in character between Lolliguncula brevis and 

 Loligo pealii. Of such a nature are two very large adult females from 

 Charlotte Harbor, Fla., in the Museum of Comparative Zoology, 

 possibly the same as those in the same museum from the same locality 



Fig. 2. Fig. 3. Fig. 4. 



Figs. 2-4. — Camera drawings of homy rings from the suckers of the third arms 

 of: 2 — Lolliguncula (?) -panamensis n. sp. [58]; 3 — Lolliguncula hrevis 

 (Blainv.), Rio de Janeiro, Brazil [46]; A— Loligo (?) sp., Charlotte Harbor, 

 Fla. [54]. 



Fig. 5. Fig. 6. Fig. 7. 



Figs, 5-7. — Camera drawings of homy rings from the tentacular suckers of: 

 5 — Lolliguncula (?) panamensis; 6 — Lolliguncula brevis; 7 — Loligo (?) sp., 

 Charlotte Harbor, Fla. 



listed as L. brevis by Verrill (Ceph. N. E. Amer., 1881, p. 345). Here 

 the fins are somewhat sagittal in shape, very much as in juvenile 

 L. pealii; the animal is much larger; the gladius has a longer and 

 narrower blade than the Brazilian brevis, and there are two lateral 

 thickenings on each wing; the horny rings of the sessile arms have 

 from 8 to 13 elongate, squarely truncate teeth on the upper margin 

 (in L. brevis they are nearly obsolete), while those of the larger ten- 

 tacular suckers have about 24 large, acute teeth alternating with nearly 




I 



1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. l03 



as many minute interstitial ones. Unfortunately, the specimens bore 

 no spermatophores. It may be that further material wiD show that 

 these represent but an extreme form of L. pealii, but it is not alto- 

 gether impossible that the brevis-hemiptera-brevipinna group includes 

 a number of well-defined races, geographically separated but confused 

 in the literature. 



In conclusion it may be well to call attention to the fact that the 

 male of L. hrevis, which has again and again been stated in the litera- 

 ture to be unknown, was well described by Professor Steenstrup 

 himself in his famous paper on Hectocotylus Formation.* In the 

 specimens available to me the details of hectocotylization are made 

 out with difficulty, but I can at least confirm his observations. Only 

 the distal portion of the left ventral arm is affected, as in Loligo. The 

 first 18 to 20 pairs of suckers are normal. From this point on the 

 suckers of the dorsal (outer) row undergo rapid modification and 

 become degenerated to rather large flattish papillae. The suckers 

 of the ventral row are but little modified and persist to the tip of the 

 arm. Thus we are still unable to distinguish the genus LotliguncuLa 

 from the genus Loligo by any important character save that the 

 female of the former receives the spermatophores of the male upon a 

 calloused patch within the mantle near the left gill, whereas in Loligo 

 they are received on a pad below the mouth. 



Explanation of Plate VI. 



LoUiguncula (?) panamensis n. sp. — ^Tentacle club and dorsal aspect (nat. size) 

 of tj^e. Drawn by Miss Lora Woodhead. 



' See English reprint in Ann. Mag. Nat. Hist. (2), XX, 1857, p. 86. 




104 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Feb., 



IS ' OS "5 



o 





-b 



"b 



00 '-H 



Of 



O 



Oh 



Of 



O*- 



S 



Of 



Of 



CO '^ 



S 



■^ ^ 



— T5 



--, is "» 



a o 



a 



O 



X3 



^ ^ ^ 



^ ^ 



H^ »-:; 




1911.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



105 





5 




106 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



HICBO-SFECTBOSCOPIC OBSEBVATIONS. 



BY F. J. KEELEY. 



Since Sorby devised the micro-spectroscope, nearly fifty years ago, 

 an immense amount of work has been done with this instrument, but 

 principally in the study of organic coloring matters in solution or 

 section, which could be examined by transmitted light. It was 

 understood that the micro-spectroscope could likewise be employed 

 in examining objects by reflected light, but this phase of its utility 

 has been almost completely neglected. With transmitted light, it 

 produces results from very minute quantities of material, but other- 

 wise offers little advantage over an ordinary spectroscope of low 

 dispersion. With reflected light, it is also applicable to the study of 

 small quantities, but has a number of additional advantages. Absorp- 

 tion bands are usually more distinct; a small crystal on a mineral 

 specimen or a gem embedded in an opaque setting may be examined 

 without disturbing or damaging it ; and phenomena such as iridescence 

 on opaque substances may be studied. 



The microscope employed in connection with this instrument should 

 always be a binocular, which permits the object to be examined through 

 one tube while the spectroscopic ocular is applied to the other. The 

 illumination should preferably be rather brighter and whiter than is 

 generally necessary for the examination of opaque objects, and is 

 best concentrated by means of a parabolic silvered reflector attached 

 to the objective. For preliminary examinations, the older form of 

 micro-spectroscope, as made by Browning or Beck, is preferable, as 

 very faint bands are more readily noted in its short bright spectrum, 

 but for further study and recording the spectra, the Zeiss model, with 

 photographed scale, is more desirable. 



There are two classes of spectra that can be advantageously studied 

 under the conditions specified, those showing absorption bands, 

 which permit the identification of certain minerals and gems; and 

 interference spectra, which assist in determining the cause of luster 

 and iridescence. 



Of the first class, the characteristic spectrum of didymium is the 

 best known and most useful. While didymium has been resolved 

 into two elements, neodymium and praseodymium, for the present 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 107 



purpose the absorption bands which have become classical as those of 

 didymium can be regarded as indicating the presence of the whole 

 group, including cerium, lanthanum, erbium and terbium, the last 

 two of which likewise have characteristic spectra of their own, not 

 usually visible in minerals to be considered. 



Under most favorable conditions, the spectrum of "didymium" 

 contains nine absorption bands, centering at about the following wave 

 lengths, .675, .622, .591, .575, .532, .521, .508, .480, .471 micron, the 

 first two of which, in the red, are not usually visible in a solution or 

 section examined by transmitted light, but quite distinct when a 

 crystallized salt or a mineral such as lanthanite is viewed by reflected 

 light. Position of bands is given as determined by the photographed 

 wave-length scale on Zeiss micro-spectroscope, which was itself ad- 

 justed on the D line from a sodium flame, and is probably sufficiently 

 accurate for the purpose. For reference, all spectra should be recorded 

 diagrammatically on paper ruled with lines corresponding to the scale, 

 showing width of band, whether edges are sharp or misty and whether 

 the darkest part of band is central or eccentric. 



In determining the presence of this element, it is of course unneces- 

 sary that all the bands be visible. If two or three, including the 

 strongest at junction of yellow and green, can be seen and their pos- 

 tion accurately measured, it is sufficient. 



Many of the minerals characterized by the "didymium" spectrum 

 occur in microscopic crystals, sometimes not sufficiently well developed 

 to determine with certainty, but if the presence of these absorption 

 bands demonstrates that the mineral is one of the comparatively few 

 which contain the cerium group, there will always be sufficient indica- 

 tions of its identity from color, luster or such few crystal faces as may 

 be present. In this manner, I have been able to confirm the discovery 

 of monazite in Delaware County, where but a few small crystals have 

 been found, and likewise to identify microscopic crystals of parisite 

 from a new locality in New England. 



Another element which shows a characteristic spectrum in most of 

 its compounds is uranium, the several equidistant absorption bands 

 in the blue end of spectrum, assisting in determining poorly crystal- 

 lized microscopic occurrences of such minerals as autunite and tor- 

 bernite. 



A mineral that has afforded material for extensive study of spectra 

 is zircon, which has long been known to show absorption bands, the 

 cause of which seems unexplained. These bands center at about 

 wave lengths .687, .650, .615, .586, .561, .538, .508, .478 and .455 




108 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



micron, and have been attributed to the presence of the cerium group 

 of elements, but a comparison of the spectra will demonstrate that 

 this cannot be the case, as not a single band occupies a similar position. 

 Another writer refers to them as "the characteristic spectrum of 

 zircon," which is likewise incorrect, as a large proportion of the varieties 

 of zircon show no trace of them. Neither are they due to the coloring 

 matter which gives various tints to this mineral, for except in the case 

 of the red variety, known as hyacinth, these colors are discharged by 

 heating without affecting the spectrum. Having examined more 

 than fifty varieties and colors of zircon, natural crystals and cut gems, 

 many of them both before and after bleaching by heat, can generalize 

 somewhat as follows: In no case have I seen a trace of absorption 

 bands in the spectra of the red hyacinth variety or in the colorless 

 microscopic crystals which can be picked out of magnetic and gold- 

 bearing sands from many localities. They are generally likewise 

 absent in crystals of brown and gray tints, while in the transparent 

 gem varieties from India and Ceylon, those of the characteristic 

 pinkish-brown and yellow tints sometimes show a complete spectrum, 

 sometimes only a few bands and occasionally none whatever. When 

 bleached by heating, the spectrum is unchanged. The strongest and 

 most distinct absorption bands are shown by those stones more or 

 less green in color which become very pale blue after heating. A 

 similar strong spectrum is shown by the microscopic bluish zircons 

 occurring in Vesuvian lava, but no trace of it in the opaque white 

 varieties from the Laacher See and the Azores. It would therefore 

 seem that the spectrum sometimes shown by this mineral is due to the 

 same cause, whatever it may be, that produces a faint blue tint, 

 whether this is originally visible or veiled by other coloring matter 

 which can be bleached by heat. As at least a few of the bands are 

 almost always visible in the spectra of the varieties of zircon employed 

 as gems, except the red, they afford a means of identifying the stone 

 when set. If loose, its high specific gravity is sufficient for the purpose. 

 Red garnets likewise have a readily distinguished absorption spec- 

 trum, including three broad and one narrow band, centering about 

 wave length .618, .578, .520 and .500 micron. This is unquestionably 

 due to the color, possibly manganese, as it is not shown by garnets of 

 other tints than red, but is remarkably constant in all the varieties 

 used as gems. Examination of over a hundred from all parts of the 

 world, including spessartite, almandite and pyrope, as well as varieties, 

 such as the beautiful "rhodolite" from North Carolina, which include 

 both the almandite and pyrope molecules, showed no important ex- 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 109 



ception, hence this spectrum will serve to identify a red garnet with 

 practical certainty. Red spinels show no absorption bands in their 

 spectra. 



The ruby exhibits an interesting spectrum consisting of a very narrow 

 bright line between two absorption bands, at wave length .69 micron 

 in the extreme red. A careful search of the literature of the subject 

 has enabled me to find no evidence that this spectrum had been pre- 

 viously observed and recorded, but whether new or old, it is most 

 characteristic, not only of typical rubies, but of every vaViety of 

 corundum that contains a trace of red in its coloration, including the 

 various shades of pink and amethystine sapphires, even when so pale 

 as to appear colorless with artificial light, star rubies, Montana sap- 

 phires of pinkish cast and even corundum from North Carolina and 

 other localities, which has a pink tint. The remainder of the spectrum 

 may vary, all except the red being absorbed by deep colored oriental 

 rubies, or all the colors visible in light tinted varieties, but the narrow 

 bright band in the red remains the same. 



This spectrum is unquestionably due to chromium, the coloring 

 matter of the ruby, as it is likewise found in examining artificial 

 rubies which owe their color to the same element. It affords an infalli- 

 ble test for distinguishing a ruby from a garnet, spinel or tourmaline 

 of similar color, and is applicable to stones in deep mountings or even 

 if covered by a plate of glass. The artificial ruby is the only other 

 stone giving a similar spectrum, and it can readily be distinguished by 

 means of the microscope alone. 



A number of other precious stones exhibit fainter but nevertheless 

 characteristic spectra. Blue and violet spinels show two narrow and 

 fairly sharp lines in the yellow and green, and, as in the case of the 

 ruby, this spectrum is very persistent, the bands being scarcely less 

 visible when the stone is almost colorless than from one of deep color. 

 It is particularly available as a means for easily distinguishing pale 

 amethystine spinels from sapphires of identical color frequently 

 found mixed in same paper of Indian cut stones. 



Among green gems, the emerald exhibits a faint line in the red and 

 a broader shadowy band occluding the orange and yellow. Green 

 garnet or demantoid, often sold as " olivine," has two very faint bands 

 in the red, which coalesce into one when the stone is deep in color, 

 while the true olivine or peridot shows two bands in the blue and 

 violet, which, although rather broad and well-defined, are usually 

 extremely difficult to see, owing to the comparatively small amount 

 of light of the shorter wave lengths transmitted by this mineral. 




110 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



In studying the luster and iridescence shown by various natural 

 objects, it must first be considered to what causes they may be due, 

 which include: 



Simple reflection, as in the case of minute pyrite crystals sometimes 

 used in jewelry. 



Refraction and dispersion-, generally accompanied by internal 

 reflection and sometimes by absorption, which account for the bril- 

 liancy and colors shown by dew drops, frost crystals and most cut gems. 



Scattering of light from microscopic particles, to which the blue 

 color of the sky is due. 



Polarization, which frequently accompanies the other phenomena, 

 but is rarely responsible for natural colors. If translucent tourmaline 

 enclosed in quartz or mica happens to be examined in the polarized 

 light from the sky at right angles to the direction of the sun's rays, 

 it may act as an analyzer, and if the film of the including mineral 

 between it and the source of light be of suitable thickness, show bright 

 colors. 



Diffraction, or the interference resulting from fine, uniformly spaced 

 lines or dots, which has been credited with being the cause of many 

 iridescent effects, with which it rarely has anything to do. The small 

 crustacean Sapphirina, which is said to sparkle like a gem when swim- 

 ming in the sun light, has a shell covered with fine markings similar 

 to those on Pleurosigma angulatum, which no doubt cause these 

 brilliant colored reflections by diffraction, and the chatoyance of star 

 sapphires and cat's-eyes may be due largely to diffraction resulting 

 from the symmetrically arranged inclusions. It must not be over- 

 looked, however, that to produce color effects by diffraction, the light 

 must come from but one direction, and the color will vary through the 

 entire spectrum with changes in the angle of incidence. 



There is one more cause to which these effects may be attributed, 

 and to which investigation will show that practically all iridescence 

 is due, and that is the interference produced by reflection from thin 

 films, which can be advantageously studied with the micro-spectro- 

 scope. Such interference colors generally show dark bands in the 

 spectrum, one in the lower order colors produced by thin films and 

 two or more as the films become thicker so that additional wave 

 lengths interfere. For comparison, records should be made of the 

 spectra of all the brighter colors, which can be done by observing them 

 in the "Newton's rings" produced between two surfaces of glass or 

 by blowing a bubble of melted glass until it bursts when the thin edges 

 will answer the same purpose. 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. Ill 



If the natural iridescent surfaces shown by many minerals be now 

 examined, similar interference bands will be noted in the spectra, 

 assuring us of the cause of iridescence and permitting the thickness 

 of the film to be calculated if the refractive index of the mineral be 

 known. This is shown particularly well on the iridescent surfaces 

 which sometimes appear on dendritic inclusions of magnetite in mica 

 from Delaware Co. Penna. One such surface of uniform pink color 

 gave a spectrum with two dark bands, centering at about wave lengths 

 .545 and .457 micron, corresponding to a red of the fifth order, and 

 indicating a thickness, if we assume the film to be a hydrate of the 

 composition of goethite, of about .53 micron or .000021 inch. In a 

 similar manner the colors reflected by scales of hematite, to which the 

 chatoyance of varieties of feldspar known as "sun stone" is due, can 

 be proved to result from the thinness of the films. The oligoclas 

 from Tvedestrand, Norway, frequently contains films of sufficient 

 size and uniformity of thickness to produce sharp interference bands. 

 Some hypersthene as well as other minerals showing aventurine 

 reflections contain similar inclusions, but not always of the same 

 mineral. The common aventurine or gold stone used in jewelry is an 

 artificial glass which owes its brilliancy to reflections from enclosed 

 crystals of metallic copper. 



There is no class of objects furnishing better examples of brilliant 

 iridescence than the scales of butterflies, and this is generally attributed 

 to the fine lines and markings with which they are covered, which cannot 

 be the case, as such markings could only cause color effects by diffrac- 

 tion, and the limitations to this cause have already been mentioned. 

 It is true that diffraction effects may be obtained from these scales 

 when held in a certain position with respect to the light, particularly 

 when they have been mounted on glass for examination by transmitted 

 light, but the colors thus produced which undergo changes according 

 to the angle of the illumination are not the characteristic colors of the 

 scales as seen in position on the insect, which are equally well shown 

 in diffused light. Furthermore, it will be found that in many butter- 

 flies the scales showing metallic colored reflections are not the ordinary 

 lined scales, but are apparently specialized for their purpose, showing 

 no fine markings, but merely rather coarse longitudinal corrugations. 

 When examined under the micro-spectroscope, most butterfly scales 

 are not sufficiently uniform in color to give pronounced interference 

 bands, but a darkening of the spectrum in some one position may 

 usually be noted, and in the particularly brilliant blue spots on the 

 wings of Papilio pans, a distinct black band is shown, having its center 




112 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



at about wave length .588 micron. The position and width of this 

 band correspond to that in the spectrum of bhie of the third order, 

 and accordingly may be accepted as indicating a film about .58 

 micron in thickness, the film being assumed to be of air or gas enclosed 

 within the chitine of the scale, and not consisting of chitine itself, in 

 which case it would be over a third thinner. 



The reason for this assumption lies rather in analogy with the results 

 obtained from study of the scales of beetles than in the behavior of 

 the butterfly scales themselves. It is well known that if a portion of 

 a diamond beetle is mounted in balsam, the iridescent reflections from 

 the scales are more brilliant than when examined dry, but if the scales 

 be scraped from such a beetle and then mounted in balsam, most of 

 them will become perfectly colorless, while here and there may be one 

 still retaining its iridescence. A further examination will show that 

 such colored scales are perfect, while the others have all been more or 

 less broken in removing them, indicating that the iridescent film occu- 

 pied an internal interval, which was penetrated by the balsam in all 

 broken scales, but remained unimpaired as long as no such penetration 

 could be effected. 



If the iridescent feathers of birds be next examined, the resemblance 

 of their brilliant metallic reflections to those of butterfly scales would 

 seem to justify the expectation that this is due to a similar cause, but 

 this predication will be contradicted by an examination of their 

 spectra. For instance, the spectrum from a ruby-tinted, iridescent 

 humming-bird feather shows no dark bands, but on the contrary a 

 single bright band, including part of the red and orange, and reference 

 to the record of spectra previously made proves that there can be no 

 color resulting from interference caused by a single film that could 

 produce such a spectrum. We can, however, readily understand the 

 probable cause of this color by first considering to what the colors 

 in precious opal are due, a subject that has been elucidated by high 

 authorities. 



In selecting opals for this investigation, those presenting patches of 

 uniform color are to be preferred, and the best will be found among the 

 so-called black opals which have recently become popular as gems. 

 I have examined a large number of these, both in polished specimens 

 and microscopic sections, as a result of which it is evident that they 

 consist of precious opal, which by some convulsion of nature has been 

 shattered to fragments, which were subsequently re-cemented by a 

 further deposition of opal of a gray or black color, which serves to 

 render the reflections more brilliant by cutting out all extraneous 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 113 



light. In the absence of such black opals, a good substitute can be 

 prepared by grinding a thin section of ordinary precious opal and 

 backing it with India ink. Some opals in a dark matrix, likewise serve 

 admirably. 



On examining the colored reflections with a micro-spectroscope, 

 instead of a spectrum with a dark band in the position of the com- 

 plimentary color, which characterizes the interference spectrum from 

 a thin film, we find only a narrow band of same color as that shown 

 visually. This has been explained by Lord Rayleigh as being due to 

 the successive action of numerous parallel films of a thickness of the 

 same order as the wave lengths of light, an explanation first applied 

 to the similar colors reflected by certain crystals of potassium chlorate, 

 in which the films are known to be due to repeated twinning. To 

 what they are due in opal is not known, but under favorable conditions 

 they may become quite visible, although I have hitherto been unable 

 to distinguish them in sections at right angles to the laminae. In one 

 specimen of opal reflecting a brilliant green color have been able to 

 count laminae 38,000 to the inch, and as they appeared to be at an angle 

 of about 45° to the plane of the section this would correspond to over 

 50,000 to the inch at right angles to the plane of lamination. 



The manner in which the colors of opal have been accounted for 

 justifies the application of same explanation to the iridescent feathers 

 previously referred to" which show bright-band spectra, although I 

 have seen none in which the band was as sharp and narrow as in the 

 opal, whose colors are probably the purest shown by any natural 

 object. It will not be safe, however, to apply the same reasoning to 

 all feathers, for Nature does not hesitate to use various means to the 

 same end. An illustration of this will be found in another humming- 

 bird feather, which in general structure corresponds to that already 

 mentioned, except that the reflections are blue in color, but at the end 

 of each pinnule there is a single filament which glows with a most 

 brilliant ruby color and shows a spectrum not unlike that of the other 

 ruby-tinted feather, but on examining a balsam-mounted specimen 

 with transmitted light, the color and spectrum are the same as by 

 reflected light, proving that it is due to absorption and not to inter- 

 ference. The brilliancy will be accounted for by examining sections 

 of the filaments, which prove to be somewhat rounded trigonal prisms, 

 with an edge facing outward, so that Hght striking either side is re- 

 turned by internal reflection from the back ; or, in other words, Nature 

 has here employed the same method that a skilful lapidary would 




114 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



use in cutting a cabochon ruby to bring out its brilliant color to best 

 advantage. 



There are other minerals beside opal which show colored reflections 

 due to successive laminae. The "moon stone" from Delaware Co., 

 Penna., consists of tri clinic feldspar, albite or oligoclase, and the 

 opalescence is shown on the face parallel to the laminae due to repeated 

 twinning, and onty on such specimens in which the laminae are ex- 

 tremely fine. The reflections from this mineral vary from a pearly- 

 white to sky-blue, but in the closely related labradorite they assume 

 all tints, although never as pure as in the case of the opal, probably 

 owing to the less uniform spacing of the laminae, although these are 

 thin enough to account for the colors. Labradorite sometimes like- 

 wise shows entirely different reflections corresponding to those of 

 "sun stone" and due to the same cause, interference resulting from 

 single thin films of included minerals. 



The chatoyance of Ceylon "moon stone," frequently cut as a gem, 

 cannot be accounted for in a similar manner, as it consists of adularia, 

 a variety of orthoclase, which does not contain twin laminations, but 

 on examining a section at right angles to the opalescent face, with 

 polarized light and comparatively high powers, a very fine micro- 

 perthite structure, due to intergrowth with a small percentage of 

 another feldspar, becomes apparent. The micro-spectroscope is of 

 no help here, as the spectra show no characteristic appearances, but 

 the fact that the reflected blue light from one of these "moon 

 stones" is partially polarized raises the question w^hether it may not 

 be due, at least in part, to the scattering of light such as causes the 

 blue color of a clear sky, and the microscopic texture of the mineral 

 seems better calculated to produce this effect than it does to produce 

 the color by any known form of interference. 



If authorities be consulted as to the cause of the luster of pearls, 

 the explanation given will be generally found to be that it is due to 

 the breaking up of the light by reflections from minute corrugations 

 with which the surface of the pearl is covered. This explanation, 

 originally given by Sir David Brewster, has been copied by all the 

 writers in whose works I have been able to find a reference to the 

 subject. Brewster made an extended investigation of the phenomena 

 shown by pearl shell in the form of plates and sections, and finding 

 that light from a contracted source produced undoubted diffraction 

 effects when reflected from the surfaces of such pieces of pearl, con- 

 cluded that the fine wavy or serrated parallel lines which he discovered 

 were largely responsible for the pearly luster, without apparently 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 115 



giving due consideration to the facts that this luster was Hkewise 

 present in diffused light and that the lines described might not neces- 

 sarily be present in an undamaged pearl, but were due to cutting a 

 section through the laminae which produced them. Brewster's own 

 description of his investigations proves that he did not overlook the 

 light reflected from the laminse of the pearl, but he does not appear 

 to have regarded it as differing from ordinary reflected light, and 

 paid most attention to the effects of diffraction, which he distinguishes 

 from the reflected light by the term "communicable colors" because 

 they could be communicated by pressure to another surface of softer 

 material. Later writers, however, seem to have regarded only the 

 lines whose influence on the true luster of a pearl is negligible. 



I have one shell of the so-called pearl oyster, Meleagrina margar- 

 tifera, apparently in its natural condition, which in places shows 

 comparatively coarse parallel lines on its surface, but have examined 

 numerous pearls without finding any such lines present, although 

 under high powers of the microscope the surface is by no means 

 smooth, but as soon as a small facet was ground on the pearl the 

 typical wavy lines appeared and could be seen side by side with the 

 unabraded surface in same field of view. 



Furthermore, the brilliancy of a pearl section is increased by mount- 

 ing in balsam, instead of being suppressed, as would be the case were 

 it due to corrugations on the surface, and if a nearly diametrical 

 section of a round pearl is observed by reflected light, the pearly 

 luster will be confined to a small spot near the center, where the 

 laminse are approximately parallel with the surface of the section. 

 Brewster mentions that the distance between the grooves varies 

 from a two hundredth to a five thousandth part of an inch, while 

 Carpenter states that they may be as close as a seventy-five hundredth 

 of an inch, both measurements evidently made on oblique sections, 

 as I have carefully counted the laminse in a section of Unio pearl at 

 right angles to the surface and found them to range between 54,000 

 and 57,000 to the inch. This brings the luster of pearls within the 

 range of Lord Rayleigh's explanation of colors due to repeated laminae, 

 which deduction may be confirmed by the micro-spectroscope. 



In round pearls used as gems the patches of color are generally 

 too small and intermingled to permit of satisfactory investigation in 

 this manner, but in sections of pearl shell places can readily be found 

 where the laminae are nearly parallel to the surface and sufficiently 

 flat to exhibit an area of uniform color large enough to produce a 

 good spectrum, and the single bands of color shown are sometimes 




116 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



almost as sharp as those from opal, proving that the colors are due to 

 the repeated parallel laminae and not to the lines or corrugations, 

 although the latter may be the only visible indications of structure 

 when viewed with the microscope in the usual manner. 



While they probably know or care little about optical science, the 

 fabricators of false gems have not failed to note the resemblance 

 between the colors of pearl shell and those of opal, and an imitation 

 of opal used in cheap jewelry is made by cementing a thin section of 

 pearl shell between two rounded and polished pieces of glass. 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 117 



VAEIATION IN SOME JAMAICAN SPECIES OF PLEUEODONTE. 

 BY AMOS P. BROWN. 



C. B. Adams, in his Contributions to Conchology, No. 11, published in 

 1852, gives some " Hints on the Geographical Distribution of Animals," 

 in which he points out that "each species occupies one geographical 

 area only; but, inasmuch as natural types are of all grades of value, 

 the difficulty of discriminating species is great. The difference 

 between some types which inhabit distinct areas is slight and in some 

 cases perhaps impossible to demonstrate; nevertheless, they should 

 be regarded as distinct species. Still it may occur that exceptions 

 to this rule exist, and frequently a number of pairs of such analogues 

 from distinct areas may be so arranged that the amount of difference 

 between each two shall successively diminish from species that are 

 very distinct to species that are scarcely distinguishable, and at last 

 the series shall terminate in two forms quite indistinguishable from 

 each other; that is, in one species. These areas of species vary from 

 a few miles to several thousand miles. Areas of insular terrestrial 

 species, excepting those with the power of flight, do not usually exceed 

 the islands they inhabit, and where the islands are separated by 100 

 miles or more of water examples of species common to two or more 

 are rare." 



In a previous article, published in the Contributions, No. 10, 1851, 

 "On the Nature and Origin of the Species of Terrestrial Mollusca of 

 the Island of Jamaica," he says: "Among the terrestrial shells, 

 typical forms exist in gi*eat profusion. These forms are of every 

 conceivable grade of value, from varieties up to genera and families. 

 They have also a determinable geographical distribution. . . . The 

 island in this respect is a miniature continent." In considering the 

 nature of the species, Adams remarks : " Our first conclusion is this : 

 that in many groups the species are distinguishable by types only 

 and not by well-defined limits. This may be illustrated by a figure, 

 in which species are represented by circles, many of which are in 

 contact and whose areas are sprinkled irregularly with dots which 

 represent the varieties. One central dot represents the type of the 

 species. ... On the boundaries of the species we find varieties 

 which closely resemble their neighbors in the adjacent species, while 




118 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



their affinities with the central types of both species are so nearly 

 balanced that it is not really a matter of much consequence on which 

 side of them the imaginary boundary line of the species is drawn. . . . 

 It should be observed that the boundaries of the circles do not repre- 

 sent any facts which have an objective existence. With the boundary 

 lines we represent the species as described in books; without them 

 we see the species as they exist in nature." 



" Since the sub-types of species are distributed with great regard 

 to locality, it is obvious that much perplexity which results from the 

 graduation of species into each other is avoided by those travellers 

 who take but a few specimens from distant localities and by those 

 collectors who are satisfied with a single, well-characterized specimen 

 of each species. Such collections are valuable as exhibiting types, 

 but they very imperfectly represent the relations of types." When 

 we consider that Adams wrote these articles almost a decade before 

 the publication of the Origin of Species, we must be struck by the 

 modern view of a species which he takes. It was forced on him by 

 the great variability exhibited in the land snails of Jamaica, which 

 he was studying. In the foregoing paragraphs he lays down the 

 general principles of their variation as he saw it and points out the 

 necessity of collecting large series of specimens if we would become 

 acquainted with the relations of the forms to each other. Thus he 

 says that each species occupies one geographical area, and, as he found 

 in this island, these areas may be small. If we only compare selected 

 types from isolated areas the differentiation of the species is easy; 

 but when we disregard the artificial limits we set for one species and 

 examine not selected specimens, but large series, " we see the species as 

 they exist in nature." They vary from station to station, from one 

 set of conditions to another. Tracing the same species from one place 

 to another or finding it living under different environments, the 

 variations represented by the dots on his hypothetical diagram grade 

 one into another and, as he points out, we see that "our circles (which 

 include the species) do not represent any facts which have an objective 

 existence;" in other words, our species are purely subjective. The 

 case is perhaps not quite as bad as might be judged from the above, 

 for the examination of a large series of specimens from a single locality 

 may show all grades of variation between the central type and the 

 surrounding forms; or, on the other hand, it may show a remarkable 

 uniformity in the entire series, with only variations in the dimensions; 

 Thus, in one subspecies considered in this paper, forms from a single 

 locality could be selected, which, if reported from different zoological 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 119 



provinces, or even neighboring islands, would be given distinctive 

 specific names by any systematist, and yet may have come from a 

 single hill slope where the animals were free to migrate from one part 

 to another. But, on the other hand, in another species which we 

 might examine from the same locality we would find great uniformity 

 in a large series of specimens. 



Adams also calls attention to the fact that an insular fauna resem- 

 bles a continental fauna in little, "the island is a miniature continent." 

 "Among the terrestrial shells typical forms exist in great profusion; 

 these forms are of every conceivable grade of value, from varieties 

 up to genera. They also have a determinable geographical distribu- 

 tion." This makes the island of Jamaica an excellent field for the 

 study of variation and its controlling factors. A complete zoological 

 survey of even such a contracted area as is covered in this paper, 

 (better still if extended to a wider area or to the entire island), would 

 be of the greatest value in the study of the causes of variation, so far 

 as they may be worked out by morphology. The possibilities in this 

 direction appealed very strongly to me during a visit to the island in 

 February-March, 1910, and on a subsequent visit in April-May I 

 collected large series of specimens from definite colonies with this end 

 in view. From a study of the large series of species of Pleiirodonte 

 taken at this time some facts in regard to the causes of the variation 

 observed seem to be indicated, and they will be found embodied in 

 this paper. In my first visit in February-March I was assisted in the 

 collecting by Mr. Stewardson Brown, who was studying the flora of 

 the region. At this time I had not recognized th6 importance of 

 collecting by isolated colonies, and the series of specimens we obtained, 

 while useful for biometric measurements on the species of the region 

 as a whole, do not give the data necessary for tracing out the pro- 

 gressive variation from point to point. In my second visit I collected 

 by colonies, keeping each one separate, and thus obtained material 

 for a comparative study. This material has been gone over and 

 individual measurements of each shell made; these measurements 

 have been plotted in various ways and the results compared. The 

 variation in measurement gives a quantitative method of comparison 

 which eliminates very largely the personal equation, and therefore 

 it has been resorted to first in all of these comparisons. The two 

 dimensions of altitude and diameter, plotted as a point, give the best 

 comparison of the dimensions, their ratio to each other, or the index, 

 may likewise be used ; and the indices arranged in order and plotted 

 for each colony on one diagram show the variations in the slope of 




120 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



the shell or give a key to the mean divergence. The dimensions, 

 reduced to an average for each colony, may also be compared, and 

 when these are arranged in order geographically, on one diagram, they 

 give a view of the successive variations from station to station. 



I included in the specimens taken a considerable number of the 

 old "dead" or semi-fossil shells which are to be found in the soil and 

 in the "graveyards," as they may be called, the great accumulations 

 of old shells that are found at the bases of cliffs, in crevices and in the 

 little "cockpits." More of these should have been taken, for I found 

 on studying them in connection with the living forms of the same 

 colony that additional light was thrown upon these living forms. 

 But their importance was not fully recognized in the field, as each 

 day's collection was simply packed away for later study. They often 

 show much variation from the living forms, and, while many of these 

 "semi-fossil" specimens probably represent the form of the species 

 before the settling and clearing of the country, they also show the 

 amount of variation which may have taken place in a given locality. 

 While it is probably impossible to fix the time that has elapsed since 

 these forms were living, this was probably not great ; yet they give an 

 indication of how rapidly organisms may vary when living under 

 conditions that favor variation. Their study, too, may throw some 

 light upon similar variations that are noted in palseontological studies, 

 and some of them may actually be fossils. 



In order that the conditions at each colony may be comprehended, 

 a description of this part of Manchester Parish and of the individual 

 colonies will be necessary (see map, fig. 1). 



Mandeville is located about the center of the parish of Manchester, 

 softie 14 miles in an air line from the sea at Alligator Pond on the 

 south of the island of Jamaica and 35 miles in an air line from the 

 north coast. It is south of the "backbone," or main east and west 

 elevation of the island, which lies some 12 or 14 miles to the north. 

 It is on an elevated plateau which extends to the northwest of Mande- 

 ville, to Balaclava, Accompony, Ipswich and the "Cockpit Country." 

 The surface is very uneven, but the individual hills are not large nor 

 high; the small valleys are not very deep. Westward from Mande- 

 ville are seen several parallel lines of hills, running north-northwest 

 and south-southeast, and becoming higher to the westward until at 

 about 6 or 8 miles to the west the ground slopes abruptly down to the 

 Black River Valley and the level savannas of St. Elizabeth Parish, 

 which are but little above sea level — a drop of 2,000 feet. To the east 

 and northeast the ground slopes down to the valleys in which Wil- 




1911.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 



121 



liamsfield and Poms are located, at an elevation of some 1,000 feet 

 lower than that of Mandeville. The country has been settled for 

 many years; in some places but little original forest remains, in 

 others, especially to the north, northwest, west and southwest of the 

 town, large tracts are still covered by original forest. The under- 

 lying rock is the Tertiary limestone which forms the surface of Jamaica 

 outside of the great uplift of the Blue Mountain system and belongs 

 mostly to the Cobre formation of Hill. These limestones are generally 

 nearly horizontal or only gently inclined, they outcrop on steep slopes 



KenJaJL 



Fig. 1. — Sketch map of the Mandeville region. 



of the hills and many hill-tops and stand up in long cliffs on the hill- 

 sides. There is no surface water in the district, but the limestones 

 are eaten out into caverns and the drainage is underground. Some 

 of the limestone layers are very pure, some are quite marly. The 

 weathering of the rock depends upon these characters and the two 

 types of stone mentioned present quite different structures when they 

 weather. The marly limestone shows but little in the way of corals 

 or shells or other fossils, being rather even in grain and evidently 




122 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



containing considerable clay. The pure limestone layers are composed 

 of a compact, fine-grained form of calcium carbonate which encloses 

 numerous corals and marine shells; but these, being of the same 

 composition as the ground mass, weather equally with it, and hence 

 do not come out entire by the solution of the stone, but only appear 

 on the surface in section. 



The layers of marly limestone upon weathering break up into 

 blocks of varying size, and tops of hills formed of these layers are 

 covered with loose, detached blocks of all sizes. An examination of 

 any of these boulders shows at once that they are very porous and 

 loosely held together; when they disintegrate, the rock passes into a 

 coarse gravel, composed of small angular fragments, and finally into 

 smaller fragments and clay. The residual clay from the marly rock 

 is white to buff-colored, or sometimes yellow-ochre color. This rock, 

 on hill-tops, weathers deeply, by boulder weathering; its porous 

 character makes the soil drain quickly after rain, and such hill-tops 

 are notably dry. They are generally flat-topped, if the hill is of 

 considerable size, and are covered with a growth of the "broom-palm," 

 the leaves and debris from which cover the ground to the depth of 

 several inches. This coating of dead leaves on the ground is generally 

 so dry that the snails find little to feed on in it, and these dry hill-tops 

 furnish few specimens of land gasteropods. 



The purer limestone layers, on the other hand, do not weather into 

 blocks by boulder weathering, but the rock passes at once into a fine 

 clay, which is generally very dark red to reddish-brown, as Hill 

 describes that of the Cobre formation. This residual clay, of course, 

 does not persist on the exposed surfaces of rock on the hill-tops, but 

 is washed off by the rains into the hollows and valleys. This pure 

 limestone presents bare rock surfaces that are not porous, and do not 

 absorb moisture ; they are not smooth, however, but are honeycombed 

 with irregidar holes and cavities, some of large size, and these are, 

 in miniature, the structures characteristic of the Cockpit country. 

 Thus vertical or inclined cylindrical holes or pits may be seen in this 

 limestone, ranging from two or three inches to ten feet in diameter, 

 and often as many feet in depth. The surface of the rock is rough 

 and jagged, sharp spires and knife-edges are characteristic of this 

 pure limestone on the hill-tops. The rock is not porous, but the 

 holes and pits retain the moisture; and the limestone is such a good 

 conductor that moisture condenses and remains on the surface after 

 the deposition of dew each night. These limestones are the most 

 favorable places for land snails. In the coimtry about Mandeville 




1191,] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 123 



the marly limestone often forms the hill-top, and the purer limestone 

 is found at a lower level; and this is true along the hills to the north- 

 west also, towards Somerset and Green Vale, but the crest of the still 

 higher hill, fronting the plain of St. Elizabeth, is mainly composed of 

 the pure limestone. The marly rock, weathering more slowly, 

 would form the hill-tops in the more or less uneven plateau in which 

 Mandeville is located, but along the escarpment edge of this plateau 

 to the west the purer limestone can form the ridge. While there are 

 certainly several different alternating layers of these two types of 

 rock, the general observation holds true that wherever in the island 

 the purer, honeycombed, jagged limestone is encountered, the land 

 molluscs are more plentiful and larger. 



When Jamaica was untouched by cultivation, there is little doubt 

 that all the upland limestone district, and in fact all the surface, 

 except the swamps and savannas, was covered with a continuous 

 forest. Cliffs of rock and exposures of bare rock on some hills were 

 the only exceptions. Under such conditions free migration of the 

 land molluscs from one part of the island to another was possible. 

 In the Mandeville region, where there is no surface water, but the 

 topography is characterized by cup-shaped valleys enclosed by hills, 

 often with no possible connection for surface flow of water from one 

 valley to another, the entire surface was forested before the introduction 

 of cultivation, some 50 years ago. In many places virgin forest is 

 still to be seen on hill-tops, and sometimes extending down into 

 valleys and gvdlies and connecting hill with hill. The land that is 

 first cleared is in the small cup-shaped valleys, where the soil and 

 humus washed from the wooded hills collect; as the area of cultiva- 

 tion extends, it involves the slopes of the hills and the cultivated or 

 cleared areas join, but they have islands of virgin forest, in the form 

 of the rocky hill-tops, which are not only not arable, but the clearing 

 of which would be a positive detriment to the estates. This is for- 

 tunate, for in these islands the plants and animals find a refuge from 

 the encroaching "cultivations." Many of these woods have existed 

 in their present state since the first clearing of the land, and are only 

 occasionally entered now for the cutting of a little firewood or an 

 occasional hardwood tree for lumber, and there is every reason to 

 believe that they will continue to exist unchanged for generations. 

 Each one of these isolated patches of woodland becomes a definite 

 colony for the land molluscs, many of which colonies have existed 

 in their present state for periods varying from 20 to 70 or 80 years. 

 In these areas are foimd not only the present living snails, but the 




124 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



shells of their ancestors, accumulated in ''graveyards," such as the 

 small cockpits, rifts and holes in the cliffs, and in the rock piles and 

 soil. The dead shells are also found in the soil of the cultivated and 

 cleared land, and may readily be obtained for comparison with the 

 living forms now confined to the isolated patches of virgin forest or 

 islands. The district is hence one well adapted to the study of the 

 variation which has taken place since the advent of cultivation in the 

 country. 



In a paper* published in these Proceedings by Pilsbry .and Brown 

 a list of the species collected in this Mandeville district is given and the 

 exact localities at which I collected the species is recorded. Most 

 of these localities represent definite colonies, and all that are treated 

 of in this paper are isolated colonies. In order that the environment 

 under which the animals lived may be compared, descriptions of these 

 localities will be necessary. Of these Benmore woods, the King 

 Edward Hotel woods, Cedar Hill woods and Bloomfield are in the 

 limits of Mandeville Market ; Garrett's woods, Somerset Road 3 miles 

 north of Mandeville, Kendal Road, Ridge near Lincoln, and Somerset 

 are at some distance from the town.^ 



The Benmore Woods Colony. 



This woods covers a hill to the east of the Court House at Mande- 

 ville and about a quarter mile distant. It is practically virgin forest 

 on the west slope of the hill where collections were made and includes 

 an area of 6 or 8 acres, the woods extending down to the bottom of the 

 hill on this side. The elevation ranges from 2,000 feet above sea level 

 to perhaps 2,150 feet. The limestone outcrops on the slope and is 

 the pure rock weathering into honeycombed and irregular forms. 

 Where collections were made the ground was moist, covered with a 

 thick coating of leaves and often of loose stones. The leaves fur- 

 nished abundant fungus food for the Pleurodonts. The shade was 

 dense and this helped to presei*ve the moist condition. Live Pleuro- 

 donte were plentiful, some had invaded the neighboring pasture, but 

 were mostly recorded by the dead shells found lying about. Collec- 

 tion was not extended to the hill-top, which was partly cleared and 

 much dryer. It was probably composed of the more impure limestone 

 seen on the top of the neighboring hill at King Edward Hotel. 



* The MoUusca of Mandeville, Jamaica, and its Environs, by Henry A. Pilsbry 

 and Amos P. BroA\'n, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1910, pp. 510-535. 



* See map, fig. 1, reproduced from the above paper. 




1911.] natural sciences of philadelphia. 125 



The King Edward Hotel Woods Colony. 



This piece of woodland also occupies a hill-top, situated across the 

 road from the King Edward Hotel, and lying to the east of the Benmore 

 woods about half a mile distant. It is a conical hill of some 3 or 4 

 acres, densely wooded, but the wood more open and rather dryer 

 than that at Benmore. Not much limestone is seen in place until 

 near the top of the hill, where low exposures as well as numerous loose 

 blocks are encountered. The limestone is the more impure kind, 

 weathering into blocks of all sizes and producing a great quantity of 

 loose stone in small pieces. The hill is not ver^ high and the elevation 

 is about 2,000 feet above sea level. Roadside cuttings have been 

 made along the west side of the woods, where a certain amount of 

 talus from the hill makes an accumulation of loose small stones that 

 are good collecting places. Where the woods is not stony, a layer of 

 leaves of some inches thick covers the slopes of the hills, and in this 

 many living Pleurodonts were found. Along the road to the west 

 many were obtained crawling in the gutters after rains. The woods 

 is isolated by roads on two sides and open pastures on the other sides 

 as well as across the roads. It is practically virgin forest. 



The Cedar Hill Woods Colony. 



This rather small woods occupies the northwest slope of a hill on the 

 estate called Cedar Hill or Cedar Grove, and extends from a road at 

 the foot of the hill to the top, where it is bounded by open pasture land, 

 as it is on the southwest side, while cultivated ground bounds it to the 

 northeast. Across the road is open pasture land, extending to Ben- 

 more woods, and about a quarter mile to the northeast is the woods at 

 King Edward Hotel. This is a very dense jungly woods, exceedingly 

 rocky; the pure limestone cropping out on the entire hillside, and 

 extending to the hill-top, which is covered by loose blocks of limestone. 

 It is evidently an undisturbed piece of the virgin forest, as can be seen 

 by the flora as well as by the species of mollusca obtained here. The 

 limestone being well exposed and, as usual, much honeycombed by 

 holes, the collecting was good. "Dead" shells were especially plen- 

 tiful. 



The Bloomfield Colony. 



The Bloomfield estate lies to the southwest of Mandeville Court 

 House, and the collection^ were made along a roadside cut and cliff 

 for perhaps a quarter mile on the Lower Santa Cruz Road, including, 

 too, the strip of woods at the top of the cliff. This is much disturbed, 




126 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



but has evidently been recently a piece of original forest. The lime- 

 stone is in general rather marly ; the road runs up hill here from about 

 2,000 to 2,100 feet above sea level along this cut. "Dead" shells 

 are plentiful, many species were only found in this state. From the 

 list found here it is seen that at one time the fauna must have been 

 much like that at the Cedar Hill woods. Pleurodonte acuta goniasmos 

 was evidently well established, as great numbers of young snails of this 

 species were seen crawling actively about. While still a productive 

 locality for many species, there is no great amount of original woods 

 remaining. 



Garrett's Woods Colony. 

 This is the woods on a hill adjoining Mr. Garrett's place, "The 

 Bungalow," and is a piece of virgin forest about 2 miles from Mande- 

 ville Court House on the Lower Santa Cruz Road. It occupies the top 

 and part of the slope of a rocky hill (2,200 feet above sea level) with 

 numerous limestone exposures and loose blocks, the hill being capped 

 by the marly limestone, mostly in loose blocks here and underlaid by 

 the purer limestone. The wood is rather dense and moist, the coating 

 of dead leaves on the ground furnishes abundant fungus food for 

 snails. The top has the moist character of the slopes and shows no 

 broom-palm. The limestone on the slopes is partly honeycombed 

 with cavities, and some species, such asZaphysema macmurryi{C. B. Ad.) 

 and Pleurodonte (Eurycratera) jamaicensis (Gmel.), which are rarely 

 seen except in favorable localities in virgin forest, are found here 

 plentifully. Anmdaria fimbriatida (Sowb.) is also very abundant; 

 it is rarely seen except in undisturbed woods. Mr. Garrett informs 

 me that the woods is practically in an undisturbed condition, and is 

 rarely entered except to cut a little firewood. The moist rocks and 

 the honeycombed character of the stone, with the abundance of food, 

 makes this a veiy favorable habitat for several of the species collected. 

 The woods is completely isolated by open fields and pastures from 

 neighboring patches of woodland and will probably remain in its 

 present condition for many years to come. It has been isolated now 

 for a generation or more, but has remained practically untouched for 

 that time. It was one of the few places where Stoastoma pisum (Sow.) 

 was seen alive and moving actively about, up to the top of the hill. 

 The Zaphysemas and Pleurodontes were taken principally from the 

 slopes and near the top. 



Ridge Near Lincoln Colony. 

 To the west of MandeviUe the ground rises in a series of ridges, 

 broken by gaps and with a general north-northwest to south-southeast 



A 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 127 



trend. The crest of the main ridge is reached by taking a branch of 

 the upper Santa Cruz Road, which leaves the post road about 3 miles 

 to the west of Mandeville Court House and runs among the hills to 

 Lincoln. At about 6 miles west of Mandeville and somewhat short 

 of the hamlet of Lincoln the main ridge is crossed in a gap occupied 

 by this parochial road, and from this point the ridge was followed some 

 half-mile to the north-northwest. Near the road the larger trees have 

 been cut, but following along the rocky hill-crest one soon passes into 

 untouched virgin forest. From the top of this crest the Santa Cruz 

 Mountains may be seen some 10 miles away across the Valley of Black 

 River. The ridge is formed of the purer limestone, honeycombed by 

 holes and small cockpits, and standing up in sharp spires. The hill 

 is covered with a dense growth of jungle. The elevation of the highest 

 point reached was about 2,800 feet above sea level. Zaphysema 

 macmurryi, Pleurodonte jamaicensis, P. acuta goniasmos and species 

 of Sagda were very plentiful. Their dead shells were seen, in rifts in 

 the cliffs and in the cockpits, by the peck. The smaller holes in the 

 limestone were frequently several feet deep, the cockpits were often 

 ten feet and more deep. Careful search was made for living Zaphysema 

 macmurryi and P. jamaicensis, but while dead shells of both species 

 could have been gathered by the bushel (and many of these were in 

 perfectly fresh condition), no living specimens were encountered. 

 They probably live deep in the holes of the limestone and in the 

 cockpits, and would hardly be seen alive on the surface unless during 

 the rains, which at the time I collected here, May 3, had hardly begun. 

 The conditions of moisture and the character of the vegetation resem- 

 bled those of the Garrett's woods locality, but in this case the ridge is 

 continuously wooded for some miles with scarcely a break and the 

 forest extends down the slopes for a considerable distance, so that 

 there must be several thousand acres of woodland along this ridge 

 that is more or less continuous. The breaks that occur in the con- 

 tinuity of the forest could probably be crossed by migrating snails 

 during the rainy season, though, at the time of my visit, the dry slope 

 at the end of the hill towards the road would have offered an impassable 

 barrier. To the north, however, it must be nearly continuous forest 

 to Balaclava and the uncultivated Cockpit Country. To the northeast 

 lies the Somerset colony, in a similar forested area, but the intervening 

 valleys are many of them cleared and cultivated. The part examined 

 could be strictly called one colony, but, doubtless, on following out 

 the ridge to the north, many more or less isolated colonies would be 

 encountered. 




128 proceedings of the academy of [feb., 



Somerset Road Colony. 

 This is a small colony 2^ miles from Mandeville at the turn in 

 the parochial road to Somerset, between the 2 and 3 mile posts. It 

 consists of small roadside exposures of limestone in little quarries and 

 borrow pits along the base of a rocky wooded hill. The limestone is 

 principally the marly variety, and while not weathered to the porous 

 character which this stone acquires on hill-tops, the soil is nevertheless 

 rather dry. The woods are not very dense, but the ground is covered 

 by a layer of some inches of leaves which furnish enough food to support 

 a good population of P. acuta goniasmos and many smaller snails, as 

 Colobostylus jayanus rufilabris. The collection here was made in about 

 100 yards of the wood, mostly near the road. The entire patch of 

 woodland was perhaps a couple of acres, but it was only partly isolated 

 from much larger tracts of forest in the adjoining hills to the west. 

 The elevation was somewhat below that of Mandeville, probably 1,900 

 feet above sea level. In all directions except to the southwest this 

 point of hill is isolated from the lower gi-ound by open pastures. It 

 is about half-way between Mandeville and the Somerset estate, some 

 3 miles from each, and nearly as far from the Kendal Road colony. 

 Larger forms, such as P. acuta goniasmos, could undoubtedly travel 

 during the wet season into this locality from the neighboring wooded 

 hills to the west, southwest and south, but the forms living to the 

 north and east would be completely isolated by cleared land. 



Kendal Road Colony. 

 In collecting out this road 3^ miles from Mandeville, but few large 

 stretches of untouched woodland were found that were favorable for 

 collecting and that reached the post road. The hills were generally 

 wooded ; sometimes the forest was practically virgin, but pastures or 

 cultivations isolated them from the road. After passing down the 

 steep zigzag part of the road, in the lower ground, a few pieces of 

 favorable woodland were met with, and along the roadside exposures 

 at one of these places some specimens of Pleurodonte were taken. 

 They must have lived in the few acres of woodland, for here the 

 cultivation is more intensive, and this colony would have been com- 

 pletely isolated by open country from any others. It was very 

 noticeable here, an old cultivated district, that the old weathered 

 shells were very different in form from those that were in new, fresh 

 condition. The wood was not entered, so no living forms were taken. 

 The fresh shells collected were from those that had crawled down into 

 the road during rains and been destroyed by ants, the older ones 

 were from shell accumulations in the fissures in the rocks. 




1911.] natural sciences of philadelphia. 129 



The Somerset Colony. 



This large estate of some 3,000 acres was visited in February, 1910, 

 and in May I spent a week here as the guest of Mr. A. P. Sutherland 

 collecting molluscs. The property lies on either side of the parochial 

 road (known as the Somerset road) which leads to Medina and Bala- 

 clava, and the estate is entered at a point about five miles from 

 Mandeville. From here it extends along the road for a couple of miles. 

 The house at Somerset was built more than half a century ago, but 

 the property is still in virgin forest with the exception of such pastures 

 and cultivations among the hills as have gradually been cleared during 

 the last 30 or 40 years. The surface is very irregular, with a network 

 of narrow valleys and sinks more or less connected, between the 

 meshes of which the round or oblong hills stand up boldly. The 

 topography has been mainly produced by the solution of the limestones 

 forming caves, which have fallen in, making the deep sinks, bowl- 

 shaped valleys and deep gullies that form the network of depressions. 

 The limestone stands up in bold escarpments and cliffs fronting the 

 depressions, and these cliffs follow along the general trend of the 

 hills; in many cases they seem to represent the faces of fault blocks. 

 The main system of these cliffs runs nearly north and south — north- 

 northwest by south-southeast, as a rule; the hills follow these lines in a 

 large number of cases. A more or less continuous depression is 

 followed by the road through the estate, but this is not continuous, 

 and the road is therefore very hilly. Less than half a mile to the west 

 of the road over the first range of hills is a similar and more continuous 

 depression or valley, with a more continuous range of hills rising 

 abruptly on the west, and so the steep hills continue to rise in succession 

 until at about 2^ or 3 miles to the west of the Somerset barbecues and 

 house the ridge overlooking the valley of St. Elizabeth is reached — 

 a continuation of the "Ridge near Lincoln." All of the depressions 

 (except some deep gullies and sinks) and some of the less stony slopes 

 near the parochial road are cleared and partly under cultivation, but 

 this cleared area represents less than one-fourth of the surface near the 

 road, and in the valleys further from the road even less has been 

 cleared. Many of the old cultivations have been abandoned for years 

 and the jungle or "bush" very rapidly covers such abandoned, cleared 

 land. Most of the land at present cleared is in pasture, although 

 some small plantings of ground vegetables, coffee, bananas, etc., 

 have been made. The hills are so close to each other, only separated, 

 as a rule, by pastures, which are often planted with oranges and pimento, 

 9 




130' PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



that migration of snails from one to the other would be possible during 

 wet periods. That such migration frequently takes place does not 

 seem very likely, but the possibility of it makes the entire tract prac- 

 tically one colony. Even on the same hill it is easy to find evidence 

 that much migration of the forms is not common, but that it occurs 

 in some cases there is good evidence. 



Collections were made in the gullies, sink holes and dissected caves 

 that represent the virgin conditions in the low ground; also in the 

 pastures where many forms live, and in the wooded hills, which are 

 everywhere covered by the original forest. More than 20 such hills 

 were explored with thin intervening valleys, an area of several himdred 

 acres. The lower groimd and many of the hill slopes are underlaid 

 by the purer limestone, many of the cliffs on the hillsides consist 

 of it, as do the sides of the dissected caves and the sinks (cockpits), 

 and some of the tops of the lower hills. The higher hills are capped 

 by the marly limestone, which covers them with loose blocks of the 

 weathered porous stone, for the rocks are rarely in place here unless 

 the cliffs extend up to the hill-top, which they sometimes do. As a 

 rule, the hills are somewhat flat-topped. On such hill-tops the rocky 

 surface is largely covered by a vigorous growth of the tall, slender 

 palmetto, known as the "broom-palm," above which the hardwood 

 trees of many kinds extend their dense shade. While well-shaded, 

 these hill-tops are, nevertheless, dry on account of the porous nature 

 of the limestone and the deep coating of leaves of the palmetto, which 

 latter decays very slowly and is very porous without forming much 

 humus. 



In contrast to this dry condition is the very damp character of the 

 sink holes and deeper gullies in the limestone which are so shaded 

 that even the tree ferns flourish there all the year round. Some of 

 the smaller hills, notably one to the west of the road near the 

 southern edge of the estate are composed of the pure limestone 

 which becomes honeycombed by the action of the weather, and 

 is so liable to develop small sinks and cockpits. In this little 

 hill just mentioned the vertical circular holes abound, many up to 

 10 feet in diameter. It was in one of these little cockpits that the 

 best specimens of the large extinct form of P. acuta goniasmos were 

 procured. Specimens as large as these were not found in the living 

 state, but many from the gullies and lower ground approximated to 

 their dimensions and shape. From a study of the distribution of this 

 species and observations on other species, it is evident that the size 

 is largely a question of moist\u-e, good cover and abundant food, on the 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 181 



one hand, and dry conditions, with poor food supply and generally 

 poor cover, on the other. Favorable conditions as to shade and even 

 as to the character of vegetation (as absence of palms, etc.) may yei 

 produce small forms where there is a deficiency of moisture. Such-'ft 

 case is the sink hole back of the barbecues on the Somerset plaice^ 

 where the forms were rather small because the rock was not honey- 

 combed with holes, and hence the cover was not very good. The 

 conditions of moisture were not the most favorable on account of the 

 overhanging walls, but still the sink was not especially dry. But 

 food was not plentiful and cover was rather lacking. Even the 

 P. a. goniasmos was small, as was the P. jamaicensis also; but the vei-y 

 fact that this species was found at all, shows that the conditions vvere 

 rather favorable. Observation on a great many localities on this 

 estate shows that, as regards the distribution of the various sizes •of 

 any one species, this is dependent on the character of their habitats- 

 which may be roughly classified as follows: ''' ' - 



A. Deep gullies and cavernous or honeycombed rocks, giving good 

 cover, abundant food and moisture, produce large well-fed fornigl 

 This region is confined to the uncleared valleys and gullies and the 

 bases of the hills here, but may extend to hill-tops also, as at the smajl 

 hill noted on this estate and the higher hill at the Ridge near Lincoln. 



B. Slopes of hills rising from the more level ground, disturbed woods 

 and isolated hills wooded to the top not covered by the palmetto, yet 

 in virgin forest or bush where the conditions as to shade are favorablCj, 

 but the rock cover not so good as in A and the food supply not so 

 plentiful, produce the average medium-sized forms in great numbers., , 



C. Hill-tops, especially those covered by the palmetto called " broom- 

 palm," where the rock cover is wanting and food is not plentiful and 

 where the conditions are dry except after rains, have few and sma,ll 

 forms. 



In the condition C there is generally another unfavorable feature 

 present, namely, the nests of the large black ant, which in such places 

 builds nests of 7 or 8 feet high and 3 feet in diameter on the ground 

 or in trees. In many cases these nests or ant cities are very old and 

 have exercised an influence for years. Near such ants' nests no shells 

 were seen dead or alive, although sometimes dead shells were encoun- 

 tered within 50 to 100 feet of such nests. The white termites (called 

 locally "duck-ants") also build large dome-shaped nests, but mote 

 often on the slopes, and I did not see that they had much influence on 

 the distribution of the molluscs. 




132 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



Plearodonto (Euryoratera) jamaieensis Gmel. Plate VII. 



Good series of this species were obtained from Somerset, Ridge near 

 Lincoln and Garrett's woods, and a few specimens from Benmore 

 woods, Bloomfield, Cedar Hill woods, and the woods at King Edward 

 Hotel. While these vary considerably in size, the same general form 

 is. preserved, so that from the smallest to the largest specimens the 

 dimensions show a nearly even gradation. On account of the shape 

 of the shell, comparable measurements could only be obtained with 

 any approach to accuracy by making certain conventions in regard 

 to the position in which the height and width should be measured. 

 The "height" is measured from the apex of the shell to the outer edge 

 of the lip, the greatest obtainable measurement being taken; the 

 width is measured from just above the upper angle of the lip to the 

 opposite whorl, the measurement being taken whorl to whorl. The 

 height so obtained is not far different from that measured parallel 

 to- the axis, but is, of course, much more exact. The height of the 

 mouth was also measured from the same angle of the lip to the tangent- 

 point on the portion of the lip opposite and was found to range near 

 the diameter of the shell. This species is still living at the first four 

 localities mentioned, but, from the appearance of the shells collected, 

 it is most likely extinct at the Bloomfield, Cedar Hill and King Edward 

 Hotel woods. The specimens from Garrett's woods ran uniformly 

 smaller than those from the other locations; of 28 adult shells but 

 3^ exceed 38 x 49 mm. and but one shell of this species from all other 

 localities is as small as this, and that one is an injured shell from the 

 Benmore woods which was stunted by the injury. Of the 28 shells 

 from Garrett's woods mentioned, 18, or 64 per cent., ranged between 

 35 X 45 mm. and 37 x 47 mm. ; but one fell below 35 x 45 mm. and 

 only three were above 38 x 49 mm. The largest shell from this locality 

 was 39 X 52 mm. The index or ratio of width to height ranges from 

 .735 to .82, with 75 per cent, of the shells between .77 and .79. Of 

 the other large series, the Ridge near Lincoln colony and the Somerset 

 group are nearly of the same size, ranging from 40 x 51 mm. to 45 x 57 

 mm., with the exception of one small specimen from Somerset which 

 was evidently abnormally small, due to some irregularity in growth, 

 as was indicated by the growth lines. 



The Somerset colonies furnished shells of more uniform index or 

 ratio of width to height than those of the Ridge near Lincoln colony ; 

 this index ranges from .76 to .815, but of the 30 specimens measured 

 from the Somerset locality only 3 fall below .77 and only 6 are above 

 .80. Of the other 21 (or 70 per cent.) which range from .77 to .80, 




( 



1911.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



133 



inclusive, 18 (or 60 per cent, of the whole series from Somerset meas- 

 ured) have an index between .78 and .80. From the Ridge near 

 Lincoln colony the range in the index is from .78 to .83; of the 16 

 examined 4 (or 25 per cent.) were below .79, 6 (or 37^ per cent.) 

 ran between .79 and .80, and a like number were above ,80, and of 

 these, 4 (25 per cent.) were above .82. 



The few scattering specimens collected at the other localities men- 

 tioned are all larger than the majority of the Garrett's woods suite, 

 but the index is very variable, ranging in the Benmore suite from 

 .73 to .80 in six examples. 



Fig. 2. — P. jamaicensis. Garrett's Woods and Somerset Colonies. 



A comparison of the forms from the Garrett's woods colony with 

 those of the Somerset and Ridge near Lincoln colonies may be made 

 by examining figs. 1 and 2, which are plotted from the measurements 

 of height and width. From these figures the relative variations can 

 be readily seen. Averaging all the measurements gives about the 

 following : 




■■X34 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



Height. Width. Index. 



.Qarrett's woods colony, average of 28 46 36 .78 



Somerset colonies, average of 30 53 42 .795 



'Ridge near Lincoln colony, average of 16 54 42 .775 



Fig. 2 shows the comparison of the fonns from the Garrett's woods 

 colony and the Somerset colony ; the former represented by the black 

 dots, the latter by the crosses. As will be seen, there is a gradation 

 in size from one to the other, but the two groups do not mingle; 

 _Tthe index is about the same in the two colonies. The size of the 

 shell is given by the millimeter scales, the vertical scale on the left 

 giving the height, while the horizontal scale below gives the width. 

 The frequency curves for width are plotted at the top and those for 

 height on the right. It will be noticed that there is no overlapping 

 in the widths, which run from 34^ to 39 mm. for the forms from 

 Garrett's woods and from 39 to 44^ mm. in the Somerset forms. But 

 in the heights there is a certain amount of overlapping, as the frequency 

 curves show. 



Fig. 3. — P. jamaicensis. Garrett's "Woods and Ridge near Lincoln Colonies. 




1911;>] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. (J,35 



In fig. 3 a similar comparison of the Garrett's woods forms with 

 those from the Ridge near Lincoln is given. Here again there is no 

 mingling of the two gi'oups and the frequency curves for width do not 

 overlap, but those for height do so slightly. In plotting all the fre- 

 quency curves the half-millimeter measurements were distributed to 

 the nearest whole millimeter. 



The variation here shown indicates that the Ridge near Lincoln 

 and Somerset colonies are much alike, and indeed these two localities 

 are connected by nearly continuous woods, but the smaller forms 

 from Garrett's woods have been living here for years since their isola- 

 tion by the clearing of the woods and have become a smaller race in 

 this time. The forms from nearer Mandeville were larger than those 

 from the isolated Garrett's woods colony. 



Fleurodonte bainbridgei Pfr. Plate VIII. 



Of the large series of this species in the collection of the Academy 

 of Natural Sciences there are two specimens from Mt. Diabolo, St. Ann 

 Parish, which are stated by Jarvis to be typical of the species. They 

 are evidently the extremes of the series found at this locality. One 

 is very near the P. bainbridgei pretiosa C. B. Ad. The other is the 

 ordinary type of this species and is similar to those forms found in 

 the immediate vicinity of Mandeville. They are stated to be extinct 

 at Mt. Diabolo and are described as ''semi-fossil." That they are 

 really extinct, however, would require an examination for young of 

 the species at the locality, as living adults of this species were not 

 seen during the time of my visit at any of the localities in the Mande- 

 ville region considered below, while young shells in very fresh condition 

 were found where the adult empty shells taken were all as weather- 

 worn as either of these two Mt. Diabolo specimens. The two Mt. 

 Diabolo specimens differ in many particulars, but as they came from 

 the sides of the road that crosses the hill they very likely are from 

 different colonies. As Mt. Diabolo is on the water shed dividing 

 the island into north and south portions, it is quite possible that these 

 two types represent a northern-side and a southern-side race. This 

 is rendered still more probable by the variations in the Mandeville 

 district specimens studied, which seem to indicate two races that, 

 in some parts, have intermingled. 



The P. b. pretiosa type from Mt. Diabolo measures 30 mm. in height 

 by 55.5 mm. in width, with an index of .54, which is considerably lower 

 than many shells of this type that I collected in the Mandeville dis- 

 trict. The shell consists of 5^ whorls; on the last half of the last 

 "whorl the suture is strongly impressed and the periphery is slightly 




136 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



elevated into an angle that is easily felt, forming a slight keel. The 

 impressed sviture is produced by a lowering of the suture line in this 

 part of the last whorl and a wounding of the whorl. This depression 

 of the suture is only to the periphery of the preceding whorl, however, 

 and not below it, as in the typical forms of P. b. pretiosa. In this 

 specimen the umbilicus is only half covered by an expansion of the 

 lip. The other specimen is somewhat larger, measuring 32 mm. in 

 width by 60 mm. in height; the index is .534 — nearly the same as the 

 last. The shell consists of 5i whorls (therefore slightly less than the 

 last), with the suture on the last half of the last whorl only slightly 

 impressed; the periphery in this portion of the shell is flattened, not 

 keeled, and is even slightly impressed. The umbilicus is completely 

 closed by an expansion of the lip. 



Compared whorl by whorl with the specimens that are considered 

 below, either of these runs somewhat larger after the second whorl, 

 up to which point there is little difference in any of these forms, 



Pleurodonte bainbridgei Pfr. Plate VIII. figs. l. 2. 



At Somerset colony. 



Shell moderately elevated with about 5^ whorls, which are more 

 compressed and rounded in the last 1^ whorls than in the Ridge near 

 Lincoln colony, and in fact are the form that has been described as 

 P. b. pretiosa by C. B. Adams. The suture at the end of the last 

 whorl drops below the periphery by 1 or 2 mm. in many cases, and 

 in two that were abnormally developed due to an injury ; the dropping 

 of the suture line amounts to 3 or 4 mm. and extends around the 

 shell for the last half whorl. A number of the shells from this colony 

 were veiy old, "subfossil," and yet they did not differ appreciably 

 from the fresh living shells, showing that this form has not been 

 interfered with by the clearing, or at least not altered in form by it. 

 These semi-fossil forms were carefully measured, but they give sub- 

 stantially the measurements of the living adult forms of this locality. 

 The average si2fe is: width 53.2 mm., height 33.2 mm., index .62 x 5. 

 The size varies considerably, however, from 48 x 32 mm. to 54 x 34 

 mm. ; the index ranges from .588 to .694. The mean divergence varies 

 from 110° to 115°. 



Pleurodonte bainbridgei Pfr. Plate VIII, figs. 3. 4. ^ 



At the Ridge near Lincoln colony. 



Shell with only moderately depressed spire, consisting of slightly 

 over 5\ whorls, the suture of the last half of the last whorl but slightly 

 depressed, much less so than in typical forms of P. b. pretiosa C.B.Ad. 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 137 



The periphery on the last whorl is not angled nor keeled, but is evenly- 

 rounded. The range of size in the 18 specimens examined varies but 

 slightly, and the form is nearly the same in all (it is a rather homoge- 

 neous colony) and the average dimensions are: height 30 mm., width 

 54 mm., index .555. Mean divergence about 120°. While the young 

 shell is strongly keeled, this sharp angle of the periphery of the shell 

 is completely lost at 4^ whorls, so that no angle appears along the 

 periphery on the last whorl. The umbilicus is normally closed by an 

 expansion of the lip, but in two shells (one of which is damaged) the 

 expansion does not entirely cover the umbilicus. 

 Pleurodonte bainbridgei Pfr. Plate VIII, figs. 5, 6. 



At the Garrett's woods colony. 



Shell with a moderately depressed spire, the outline of which is 

 somewhat concave to linear, with 5^ whorls, of which the last is only 

 slightly depressed along the suture in the last ^, or in some cases not 

 at all depressed; the periphery is slightly angled on the last whorl 

 up to within ^ whorl of the end or in one or two cases up to the end, 

 otherwise rounded in the last { whorl, and resembling the more de- 

 pressed specimens from the Ridge near Lincoln. Umbilicus completely 

 closed by the expansion of the lip in all of the specimens. The average 

 dimensions are: width 53.3 mm., height 29.6 mm., index .555, mean 

 divergence 125°-135**. Number of specimens, 10. 

 Pleurodonte bainbridgei Pfr. Plate VIII, figs. 7, 8. 



At the Benmore colony. 



Shell with depressed spire, consisting of 5 whorls or less, with a 

 suture that is not at all impressed or only impressed on the last J 

 whorl; the periphery of the shell is slightly angled to the end of the 

 last whorl, this being caused by the last whorl's being somewhat flat- 

 tened on that part just above the periphery and sloping away rather 

 sharply below. The umbilicus is closed by an expansion of the lip. 

 The dimensions are: width 50f mm., height 27^ mm., mean divergence 

 about 125°, index 54. 



Pleurodonte bainbridgei Pfr. Plate VIII, figs. 9, 10, 



At the Cedar Hill colony. 



Shell with rather depressed spii-e, consisting of 4|^ to 5 whorls; 

 the suture on the last | of the last whorl scarcely at all depressed, 

 and this part of the whorl rounded at the periphery and scarcely 

 angled beyond 4| whorls. The umbilicus is generally completely 

 closed, but in two specimens it is only about f closed by the expansion 

 of the lip. Average dimensions are: width 52 mm., height 26.7 mm., 

 mean divergence 140°, index .515. 




138 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



Flearodonte bainbridgei Pfr. 



At the King Edward woods colony. 



Shell depressed, consisting of somewhat less than 5 whorls (4f to 

 41), the last whorl rounded or slightly angled at the periphery and 

 with little or no depression at the suture, except at the end of the last 

 whorl in some cases; umbilicus closed by an expansion of the lip. 

 The single (outer) tooth is very small or nearly obsolete. Average 

 dimensions are: width 50.6, height 26, mean divergence about 140°, 

 index .513. 



Fig. 4. — P. bainbridgei. Comparison by whorls, width and height. 



Fig. 4 gives a comparison of the average sizes of this species from 

 five of the stations where collections were made, and from the Somerset 

 estate I have plotted the dimensions of the extinct shells as well as 

 those now living. They are marked Sm. F., the Somerset extinct; 

 Sm. N., the Somerset normal living forms; R. nr. L., the forms from 

 Ridge near Lincoln; G. W., the Garrett's woods colony; Ben., the 

 Benmore woods forms; and C. H., the forms from Cedar Hill. Meas- 

 urements were taken of each shell, whorl by whorl, with the height 

 and width, and these were then averaged and the index calculated, 

 this being the ratio of the height to the width. These dimensions 

 are plotted, the diameter at whorl 1, whorl 2, etc., being marked 

 1, 2, 3, 4, 5; and the greatest width is indicated by the black dots 

 marked "width.'' The height of the adult shell, in the same way, is 

 indicated at H. The indices are marked "Index." It will be noted 

 that the Somerset forms have a high index and, as noted, resemble the 

 forms that have been named P. b. pretiosa by Adams. The five 

 localities represented on this figure are arranged geographically from 

 Somerset to Benmore woods and Cedar Hill woods, and it will be 

 noticed that there is a fall in the index from one locality to the 

 other, bui a rapid fall from the Somerset station to the Ridge near 

 Lincoln station. This is accompanied by an actual as well as a rela- 

 tive drop in height of the shell, so that the height curve resembles the 

 index curve, but this is natural as the width curve show^s less variation. 

 The shells from the Benmore woods colony were not very healthy- 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. :139 



looking, and this may account for the apparent stunting shown towards 

 the end of their shells after the reproductive organs have developed, 

 as indicated in the curves for 'Svhorl 5" and "width." 

 Fleurodonte acuta goniasmos A. D. B. 



This very variable species is the common large Fleurodonte in the 

 Mandeville district. Some 500 specimens of adult shells were col- 

 lected in this region from the definite colonies above described, as 

 well as about a hundred immature shells; and, in addition, about 

 150 others from mixed colonies were taken, which are not considered 

 in this comparative study. The largest collection was from the 

 Somerset colonies, a suite of 229 being secured here of the adult 

 shells, as well as a large number of young. Measurements of all of 

 these six hundred shells (adult and immature) from definite colonies 

 were made, and from these curves showing the distribution of dimen- 

 sions plotted as well as the whole series of dimensions. From the 

 young and from breaking down the whorls of adult and young shells 

 measurements were secured in each case, from which measurements 

 the growth curves of the development of the shells were worked out. 

 Besides these measurements of height and width (the two dimensions 

 recorded for all specimens), in the case of each colony, a small number 

 of typical shells were selected and measured as to the diameter at 

 each whorl, and these were averaged (as well as the heights and widths, 

 and the indices with the mean divergence) and all these factors were 

 plotted to scale. From this last diagram (fig. 6) it is at once seen 

 that the differences in dimensions vary with the geographical position 

 of the colonies and that at least two lines of migration are involved 

 in this region. In the tract examined these begin at Somerset and at 

 the Kendal Road colony, respectively, and, making two series of the 

 colonies arranged in geographical order from these points, two sets 

 of curves are at once obtained in which the graduation in dimensions 

 is regular from one end to the other (fig. 6). The two lines, the 

 Somerset wave and the Kendal Road wave, converge from the north- 

 west and from the northeast towards Mandeville, where they are only 

 separated by about a half-mile; and, doubtless, to the south of Mande- 

 ville colonies could be found that show a mingling of these two races. 

 That they were originally one there is no doubt, but they branched 

 off to the north and east from the main common stock and, following 

 the topography of the country and the most favorable ground, became 

 separated, but eventually came together again. In this migration 

 through the "Manchester backwoods," as Chitty calls this region, 

 the animals undoubtedly followed the lines of least resistance, where 




140 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



conditions of food and moisture (the main controlling factors in the 

 case of this species) were most favorable, and they avoided the places 

 where conditions were unfavorable or where resistance to migration 

 was offered by the nature of the ground, such as dry, stony hills, 

 continuous cliffs and very steep slopes. Of course this dispersal and 

 migration was effected ages before the country was settled and cleared. 

 On the basis of these apparent migration lines, the colonies may be 

 divided into two groups. Starting in the area examined with the 

 Somerset colony, we have one group including in order the following 

 localities: Somerset, Somerset Road, Ridge near Lincoln, Garrett's 

 woods and Bloomfield, forming a chain of colonies in one of the migi'a- 

 tion waves. The other may be taken as starting from Kendal Road 

 3^ miles north by east of Mandeville and includes the group : Kendal 

 Road, Benmore woods. Cedar Hill woods and King Edward woods, 

 the last three being localities to the east and southeast of Mandeville 

 Court House. From the large number of specimens collected at 

 Somerset the possibility of variation at any one large station could be 

 studied ; and ag the variation noted in the different colonies depends 

 upon the same factors that control it in the case of the Somerset 

 group of colonies, a study of the species at this station will serve as an 

 introduction to the comparative study of the forms from all the 

 colonies, which will then be taken up in order as given above. The 

 migration lines can then be studied. 



FUurodonte acuta goniasmos A. D. B. Plate VIII. 



At Somerset. 



From an examination in the field four types of the species may be 

 distinguished at this place, which may be designated as follows: 



1 . Extinct forms that formerly lived in the deep gullies and honey- 

 combed rocks (localities of type A). Probably the nearest approach 

 to the original stock we have any record of. As they were only found 

 in a much weathered, semi-fossil condition, they are assumed to be 

 extinct and will be called "Somerset extinct." Their nearest descend- 

 ants are the Somerset gully forms 2. 



2. What may be called " Somerset gvlly forms," the forms now living in 

 localities of type A, as described under the Somerset colonies above. 



3. Somerset hill slope forms, living under the conditions described 

 under the Somerset colonies above as type B, the higher hill slopes. 

 These may be called the "Somerset normal forms." 



4. "Somerset hill-top" forms, living on hills on which the broom- 

 palm or palmetto grows (type C locality). 




1911.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



141 



An examination of the measurements of the entire suite of Somerset 

 specimens shows that the distribution of dimensions follow this 

 grouping. From the plotting of the distribution of height and width 

 the relative numbers of the four types are seen to be as given below 



Fig. 5. — Somerset. 



in the 229 examples studied. The separation into groups by the 

 width measurements is quite sharp, but, as is explained later, the 

 heights overlap somewhat : 



Range of Dimensions in the Four Types at Somerset. 



No. of 

 Type. examples. 



Somerset Extinct 12 



Somerset Gully 55 



Somerset Normal 127 



Somerset Hill-top 33 



The curves were plotted for the entire 229 specimens and no attempt 

 was made to sort them out into groups. But nevertheless the curves 

 show the types quite plainly. Thus the widths for the 33 hill-top 

 forms 13 are 42 mm, and 13 are 43 mm,; whereas the next millimeter 

 in diameter, 44 mm,, is represented by 23 specimens, 45 mm. by 29 

 specimens, 46 mm. by 26, 47 mm. by 25, 48 mm, by 24; this range 




142 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



from 44 mm. to 48 mm., inclusive, representing the normal forms. 

 At a diameter of 49 mm. we find 26 forms; at 50 mm., 19 forms; at 

 51 mm., only 7 forms. There are a few scattering normal forms in 

 these 52 gully forms and a few of the gully forms above 51 mm., up to 

 54 mm., making the number distinguished as gully forms up to 55. 

 The 12 extinct specimens collected range from 54 to 60 mm. in width. 



The curve of the heights does not serve so well to sort out the four 

 types, for exclusive of the extinct type there is not so much range in 

 height among the specimens except those of the gully type, which vary 

 in height from 28 mm. to 23 mm., though mostly falling between 

 27 mm. and 25 mm. The curve shows a rapid rise from 19^ mm., of 

 which only one was recorded through 20 mm., of which only 2 examples 

 were measured to 23 mm. as a maximum where the number recorded 

 was 54. Between the heights'of 22 mm. and 25 mm. there are included 

 108 specimens. As has been stated, a small number of characteristic 

 examples of each of the three living types were selected for measure- 

 ment by whorls and all of the perfect specimens of the extinct type 

 collected were used; these measurements were employed in the 

 descriptions which follow. 



1. Somerset Extinct (Plate VIII, figs. 1, 2). — Shell rather more 

 elevated than in the Somerset gully forms, consisting of 5f whorls, 

 of which the first two belong to the embryonic shell; with an acute 

 periphery which continues to the end of the last whorl; slightly 

 concave next the periphery below up to the beginning or sometimes 

 the middle of the last whorl, somewhat concave next the periphery 

 above to the end of the last whorl; labrum with one outer tooth on 

 the lower side, and sometimes with a second inner tooth; umbilicus 

 normally closed by expansion of the lip. Average height 31 mm.; 

 width 58 mm.; index .535; mean divergence about 115°. 



About 60 per cent, of the shells had one tooth, the remaining 40 

 per cent, had two more or less well-developed teeth. This is a difference 

 from the other Somerset forms now living, which showed 170 out of 

 209 with one tooth and ten with no teeth, against 29 with two teeth, 

 of which the second inner tooth was often only a trace. 



These Somerset extinct were found in several favorable localities, 

 but were only collected from one cockpit on the little hill of honey- 

 combed limestone that has been already mentioned. A few specimens 

 were taken (about a dozen), although hundreds were seen here 

 and elsewhere on the estate. It is assumed that they are extinct, 

 as no fresh shells of this large high type were observed; but a 

 protected gully may be found where they are still alive, and they 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 143 



may be living in the Balaclava district. They closely approach 2^ 

 Somerset gully forms, which are no doubt their descendants. 



2. Somerset Gully Forms (Plate IX, figs. 3, 4). — This is the 

 largest living P. a. goniasmos of this region. The shell consists of 

 about 5^ whorls, the spire being somewhat lower than in the Somerset 

 extinct form. The embryonic shell occupies about If whorls. In 

 form of shell and concavity next to the periphery, as well as in the 

 keeled character of the latter, this shell resembles the extinct form ; 

 but in many shells the whorl next the periphery is convex below and 

 even above near the end of the last whorl. This convexity of the 

 whorl next to the periphery above is an accompaniment of diminution 

 in size, and is common to almost all of the smaller forms of this species 

 examined from each of the localities mentioned. As this type passes 

 into the next (3), this character becomes normal in the entire last whorl. 

 The labrum has the outer tooth developed in above 80 per cent, of 

 the specimens, but the inner tooth is only present in some 14 per cent. ; 

 and somewhat less than 5 per cent, are destitute of teeth. Average 

 height 23.5 mm. ; width 50 mm. ; index .47 ; mean divergence about 

 130°. 



The form varies with the convexity or concavity of the whorl next 

 to the periphery above ; the more typical forms — those present in the 

 largest numbers — are convex at this point on a part of the last whorl. 

 An examination of the young shells shows that up to 4 whorls the 

 form of the shell is that of P. ingens C. B. Ad. or of P. acuta patina 

 (C. B. Ad) ; between 4 and 4| whorls it passes into the form of P. a. 

 acuta and then rather rapidly into the typical P. a. goniasmos form. 



3. Somerset Normal (Plate IX, figs. 5, 6). — ^These forms resemble 

 the more convex type of the gully form and differ principally in size 

 and in having a somewhat higher index, about .52. They are actually 

 higher than the gully form by one or two millimeters when the 

 width is some three millimeters less. The shell consists of 5^ whorls, 

 or a trifle more than in the gully, but the diameter of the whorls is 

 less in every case and the fifth whorl has a diameter of 41 mm., as 

 against 45 mm. in the gully form. The smaller shells, as a rule, are 

 typically convex next to the periphery above, but wherever this 

 character is well-marked the form is flatter and the index slightly 

 less than in those with a concavity of the whorl at this point. Such 

 more convex and less keeled forms generally measure about as given 

 above, the more acute forms measure 24 mm. by 48 mm. to 25 mm. by 

 50 mm., with an index of .50, and thus pass into the gully type. They 

 are then the intermediate stage between the present gully form living 




144 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



[Feb., 



under the most favorable conditions and the hill-top form hving under 

 the most unfavorable conditions. They were generally encountered 

 on the sides and near the top of the slope in the hills capped by the 

 broom-pahn or in small, somewhat isolated hills, w^here in both cases 

 the moisture was somewhat deficient and the food, therefore, not so 

 plentiful as in the guUies. An average size was: height 24.5 mm.; 

 width 47 mm. ; index .52 ; mean divergence 125°. 



4. Somerset Hill-top (Plate IX, figs. 7, 8).— These are the smallest 

 form of this subspecies hving at this locality, but they are simply a 

 diminutive form of the normal. The portion of the whorl next to the 

 periphery above is generally convex, and the height is slightly greater 

 proportionately to the width than in the normal forms. This makes 

 the index somewhat higher than in the normal, but not higher than in 

 the extinct forms. There are 5^ whorls normally, the same as in the 

 form 2. An average size is: height 22 mm.; width 42 mm.; mean 

 divergence 115°-120°; index .525. 



K.E.6 — 



Fig. 6. — P. a. goniasmos. Comparison by whorls. 



A most satisfactory comparison of these four types may be had by 

 comparing their dimensions whorl by whorl, and such a comparison 

 is given in the table below. 



Comparison of the Average Dimensions from Selected Typical Specimens 

 of the Four Types of P. a. goniasmos A.D.B. from Somerset Colony. 



Whorl 

 1. 

 Type. mm. 



Extinct 5 



GuUy 4.5 



Normal 4.15 



Hill-top 3.75 



Whl. 



2. 



nmi. 



13 

 11 



10.8 

 10 



Whl. Whl. Whl. Mean 



3. 4. 5. Height. Width. Index, diver- 



mm. mm. mm. 



22 

 21 

 20 

 19 



34 

 33 

 31 

 29 



47 

 45 

 41 

 39 



mm. 

 31 



23.6 

 24.5 

 22 



mm. 

 58 

 50 

 47 

 42 



.535 

 .47 

 .52 

 .525 



gence. 

 115° 

 130° 

 125° 

 118° 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 145 



These may be plotted and will be found in fig. 6 along with the 

 series from other colonies. The measurements of all the specimens 

 from the Somerset colonies are plotted in fig. 5. Here the dis- 

 tribution of the hill-top, normal, gully and extinct forms is shown as 

 regards frequency. The frequency curve for width shows distinctly 

 the separation of these four types. Thus at width 42-43 mm. we have 

 the limit of the hill-top forms and their blending into the normal 

 forms; at 48 mm. the drop in the curve shows the passage from the 

 normal to the gully forms, while between 52 and 53 mm. the extinct 

 forms begin. Their (apparent) relative infrequency is simply due to 

 the fact that comparatively few of the extinct shells were taken. In 

 this diagram all measurements are to the nearest whole millimeter, 

 the number of coincident measurements for any size of shell being 

 indicated by the small numbers enclosed in the circles, whose centers 

 indicate the dimensions. 



Flenrodonte aonta goniasmos A. D. B. Plate X, figs, l, 2. 



At Somerset Road colony. 



Shell varying from even flatter than the Somerset normal type to 

 considerably more elevated ; consisting of 5 whorls, the last whorl next 

 to the periphery convex above and more so below, but with a distinct 

 angle at the periphery; generally more elevated than in the Somerset 

 forms and with an average index of .545, which is higher than even 

 that of the Somerset hill-top shells. The index varies, however, 

 from .473 to .612, being in general higher in the smaller shells, and only 

 one of the larger specimens showing an index as high as .585; this was 

 an old, weathered shell, perhaps representing an extinct form. The 

 umbilicus is normally closed by an expansion of the lip, but in about 

 25 per cent, of the shells it was only partially closed. This is a one- 

 toothed race like the Somerset shells — 95 per cent, of the shells showed 

 but a single tooth, and in only one was there a poorly developed 

 second inner tooth. The diameter ranged from 35 to 44 mm. Average 

 dimensions were: width 38.4 mm. ; height 20.8 mm. ; mean divergence 

 115° (110° to 120°); average index .545. Number of examples, 21. 



This race, while smaller, closely resembles the forms from the 

 Somerset colony. They are smaller than the smallest of these, however, 

 the hill-top forms, and are somewhat higher in the spire also; the 

 average index of the Somerset hill-top type is .525 as against .545 in 

 this colony. In the young shells up to the second whorl the size is 

 about the same as in the normal Somerset shells of the same develop- 

 mental stage ; from that point on the forms from this colony run smaller 

 01 




146 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Feb., 



than any of the Somerset shells, compared whorl by whorl. Fig. 7 

 shows the measurements of the specimens from this colony, with their 

 frequency curves of width and height. 



Fig. 7. — Somerset Road. 



Fleurodont« acuta goniasmoi A. D. B. Plate X, figs. 3, 4. 



At the Ridge near Lincoln colony. 



Shell varying from the form of the Somerset normal to much more 

 elevated than those from Somerset Road and averaging higher than 

 these in index; consisting of 5 whorls or often somewhat less (4|) 

 and rarely of over 5^ whorls; with a slight concavity next to the 

 periphery above on the last whorl in most cases, but this is sometimes 

 wanting; convex below next to the periphery on the last whorl. 

 The index ranges from .50 to .634, but the average from typical 

 specimens is .565. The umbilicus is completely closed by the expan- 

 son of the lip in all of the 40 adult specimens examined. The forms 

 are both one-toothed and two-toothed in about equal proportions; 

 with two teeth there were 18 specimens, but of these 13 had the second 

 inner tooth small; in all 45 per cent, were two-toothed. Of the re- 

 maining 22 specimens 20 had only one tooth, 50 per cent. ; the other 

 two had no trace of teeth, though the lip was heavy and well developed. 

 Average width 38 mm.; height 21.5 mm.; mean divergence 112°. 

 Number of examples, 40. 



The average width is slightly less than that for the Somerset Road 

 colony, the height, on the other hand, is slightly greater; this makes 

 the average index higher, .565 for this colony as against .545 at Somerset 




1911.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 



147 



Road colony. The measurements of the specimens from this colony 

 are given in fig. 8. 



Fig. 8. — Ridge near Lincoln. 



Pleurodonte aouta goniasmos A. D. B. Plate X, figa. 5-7. 



At Garrett's woods colony. 



Shell varying much in size and relative dimensions of height and 

 width, but in general resembling the form of the higher shells from 

 the Ridge near Lincoln colony; consisting of about 5 whorls, convex 

 above and below the periphery on the last whorl; with a distinct 

 angle along the periphery and, in some cases in the larger shells, with 

 a slight concavity above the periphery in the last whorl. The index 

 varies, the lowest being .48 and the highest .655, but a very large 

 proportion of the specimens have an index of .55-.58 and the average 

 for the typical specimens selected was .565. The plotting of the 

 heights shows 22 specimens with a height of 19.5 mm., 20 with a 

 height of 20 mm., 14 with a height of 20.5 mm., and 9 with a height 

 of 21 mm. ; the extremes of height range from 17 mm. to 27 mm. in 

 the 83 examples measured, but these include 4 specimens which are 

 semi-fossil, the largest of the series. The fresh shells run from 17 mm. 

 to 23 mm. in height, these four semi-fossil ones from 24.5 mm. to 

 27 mm. The widths vary from 31.5 mm. to 40 mm. for the fresh 

 shells and the four semi-fossil shells range from 40 mm. to 44 mm. 

 The living forms show a sharp maximum in width at 36 mm., with 

 24 specimens (including those which measure 36.5); altogether 42 

 specimens range between 35 mm. and 37 mm. inclusive. The labrum 




148 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Feb, 



shows a well-developed outer tooth in all but 5 specimens, which are 

 toothless; of the toothed forms a less well-developed inner tooth 

 appears in 38 specimens of the living form and 3 of the semi-fossil 

 form, while 36 of the living form and one of the semi-fossil form have 

 only the outer tooth. It will be seen, however, that the one- toothed 

 and two-toothed forms are about evenly divided in this colony. The 

 umbilicus is closed in all specimens by an expansion of the lip. Average 

 dimensions are as follows : Width 20.4 mm. ; height 36 mm. ; mean 

 divergence 109°; average index .565. 



Fig. 9. — Garrett's Woods. 



The form of the shell in this race is like that from the Ridge near 

 Lincoln colony and somewhat higher in the spire than the shells from 

 Somerset Road, but there are a great many small shells with very 

 high spire. This is natural, for a large number of the specimens 

 were taken from the hill-top, and, as at Somerset, so here, the hill-top 

 forms run smaller than those found lower down on the slopes. The 

 four semi-fossil forms are uniformly larger than the others, fig. 9, 

 where the four highest shells are semi-fossil, and in these there is a slight 

 concavity next to the periphery above in the last whorl. They 

 probably represent the original race that reached this locality in the 

 migration of the species, and that was subsequently modified to the 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 149 



present smaller form by being compelled to live under less favorable 

 conditions, especially since the region has been under cultivation. 

 They may have been driven to the shelter of this oasis in the cleared 

 land by the cultivation, and even represent a form that lived under 

 better conditions than those obtaining in the woods. 



Pleurodonte acuta goniasmos A. D. B. Plate X, figs. 8-10. 

 At the Bloomfield colonj^ 



A. Old or Semi-fossil Shells, 9 examples. — Shell with rather elevated 

 spire consisting of 5 to 5j whorls and with, in most of the specimens, 

 a concavity above, next to the periphery on the last whorl ; in several 

 of the specimens the shell is excavated or concave above the suture 

 on the third and fourth whorls also, so that the very acute periphery 

 persists up to the end of the fourth whorl where the excavation below 

 the periphery disappears. The dimensions vary from 38 x 20.5 mm. 

 to 43.5 x 25 mm. ; the indices range from .515 to .612, but average .56. 

 "With the exception of two specimens, these old shells are uniformly 

 larger than those now living in this colony. This is easily seen to be 

 due to the fact that the woods at Bloomfield are disturbed and there 

 is no possibility of migration from the lower ground as was doubtless 

 the case when these semi-fossil shells were alive. Across the road 

 from this woods the ground falls away into a long valley or pocket 

 in the hills where the conditions of food and moisture must have been 

 much more favorable when the country was uniformly forested than 

 those obtaining in the colony at present. The forms are both one- 

 and two-toothed, about equally divided, 4 have the outer tooth well 

 developed and the inner one rather rudimentary, 5 have only the 

 outer tooth. Average dimensions: width 40.5; height 22.7; index .56; 

 mean divergence 110°. 



B. Living Race, 25 examples. — Shell with rather elevated spire, 

 consisting of 5 to 5^ whorls ; almost uniformly convex both above and 

 below the periphery, which is not very sharp, in a few examples slightly 

 excavated above next to the periphery. The dimensions range from 

 35 x 21 mm. to 39 x 23 mm. ; the index varies from .53 to .625. They 

 are about equally divided between two- and one-toothed forms ; of the 

 25 specimens 12 have one tooth and 13 have two, but the inner tooth 

 is only rudimentary in about one-third of these. The size varies, on 

 the whole, considerably less than that for the old shells, but one is 

 above 38.5 mm. in width, and that was 39 mm. Average dimensions: 

 height 21 mm., width 37.3 mm., index 57 mm. ; mean divergence 107°, 



The dimensions of these two sets of specimens are given in the 




150 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Feb., 



accompanying plot, fig. 10, in which all forms with a width of 39 mm, or 

 over (with the exception of one, 39 x 23 mm.) belong to group A. 



The shells in this colony were plentiful, and both in February and 

 March and also in May living forms were collected in abundance. In 

 March the young were perhaps somewhat more plentiful, but a good 

 series were collected in May, when the suites above described were 

 taken. The young ranged from 3 whorls to 4J whorls in diameter, 

 they move actively about above the surface of leaves and probably 



Fig. 10.— Bloomfield. 



most of the migration occurs between a size of 2^ whorls and of 4 

 whorls. At about 4 whorls the adult characters begin to appear, and 

 the umbilicus to contract as the size of the opening of the shell expands, 

 but the development of the shell will be given in another place. 

 Fleurodonte acuta goniasmos A. D. B. Plate XI, figs. 1-3, 5. 



At the Kendal Road colony, 3^ miles from Mandeville. 



Shell varying from rather high in the spire to as fiat as the Somerset 

 normal forms, consisting of 5^ to 5^ whorls; only 2 out of the 18 

 examples (Plate XI, figs. 3 and 5) had a depressed spire, so that the 

 index fell below .50 (.455 and .487), but in 5 others it was below .53 

 (.51, .512, .512, .524, .525). On the other hand, 4 had a much elevated 

 spire, above .60 (.607, .61, .62, .62). The average index for the whole 

 series was .55. They include shells that range in index below the 

 lowest from Benmore woods, and some are also nearly as high in index 

 as the highest from this colony. The outline of the spire runs from 

 nearly linear to somewhat convex, but all show a slight excavation 

 above the periphery on the last whorl and the angle is rather pro- 

 nounced, one' or two have this angle at the periphery much rounded. 




1911.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



151 



The two extremes of form are so different that they may well represent 

 two successive migration waves, but the high-spire forms predominate. 

 Two of the shells were probably semi-fossil (Plate XI, fig. 1), but their 

 index is near the average for the group and they were not larger than 

 many taken at this colony. In actual size the two flat shells above 

 mentioned are probably as large as many Somerset normal forms, 

 measuring, height 21 mm. by width 46 mm. and 23 x 42^ mm., respect- 

 ively, with indices of .553 and .541. This colony was at a lower 

 level above sea than any other examined in this region ; it is, as noted 

 above, the most northerly point of the second migi-ation line which 

 seems to be indicated in the specimens of this collection. The dimen- 

 sions of the entire 18 specimens are given in the diagram, fig. 11, but, 



Fig. 11. — Kendal Road. 



as will be seen, they are rather scattered. Average dimensions by 

 whorls were measured for a small selected series of these specimens, 

 they show that up to 2 whorls the diameter is equal or rather more 

 than that of the normal Somerset forms, at whorl 3 about the same 

 size and at whorls 4 and 5 somewhat smaller. When fully grown 

 they are about the diameter of the Somerset hill-top forms. The 

 index is higher than that of any of the Somerset forms, though near 

 that of the Somerset Road forms. The average dimensions of the 

 adult shell may be stated as, height 23.1 mm. ; width 42 mm. ; index .55 ; 

 mean divergence in the flat forms 130°, in the forms with high spire 95°. 

 These forms are mostly one-toothed, 13 of the series had only the 

 outer tooth and the other 5 had only a rudimentary inner tooth in 

 addition. All have the umbilicus completely closed by an expansion 

 of the lip. 




152 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Feb., 



The irregularity shown in the frequency curve of heights in fig. 9 

 is no doubt due to the fact that* but a small series was taken at this 

 station. 



Pleurodonte acuta goniasmos A. D. B. Plate XI, figs. 4, 6, 7. 



At the Benmore woods, Mandeville. 



Shell ovate conical, rather higher than the last, consisting of 4f 

 to 5^ whorls, of which the last has a distinctly angled periphery, but 

 is convex above and below and not excavated above the periphery, 

 as is commonly the case in the Kendal Road colony. They do not 

 include any very much depressed forms in the 42 specimens measured, 

 these run above .53 in index, with the exception of 10 specimens whose 

 indices range from .495 to .525; of the rest, 15 are above .575, and 8 



Fig. 12. — Benmore Woods. 



of these are above 60. The average index for the entire series is .56. 

 The heights vary considerably, but average about 21.5 mm., with an 

 average width of 38.4 mm. ; the mean divergence ranges from 120° to 

 110°. The highest index measured, .635, was in a shell of medium size, 

 of which the dimensions were 23.5 x 37 mm. 



The shells of this colony are prevailingly two-toothed, though the 

 outer tooth is the only one that is strongly developed, and in the 25 

 that show two teeth (59^ per cent.) the inner tooth is rather small in 

 most of the specimens. The other 17 specimens (40^ per cent.) only 

 show one tooth, with no trace of the second, inner one. The umbilicus 

 is normally closed, but is partly open in one specimen which is smaller 

 than the average, although it does not seem to be abnormal or injured 




1911.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 



153 



in any way. The only semi-fossil shell among the Benmore woods 

 specimens has the highest spire of any measured, it gives 25 x 40^ mm. 



The shells in this colony are smaller than those in the Kendal Road 

 colony, and they are higher in the spire proportionately, or the index 

 is slightly higher. There are none of the dimensions of the largest 

 from Kendal Road colony, but one approaches it (22 x 44^ mm., as 

 against 21 x 46 mm. from Kendal Road) and this has an index of 

 .495, the only one with an index under .50. 



Fig. 12 shows the distribution of size in this colony, the dimensions 

 of the 42 specimens measured being given to the nearest whole milli- 

 meter. The frequency curve for widths shows that the majority 

 range from 37 mm. to 40 mm., with a slight drop in the curve at 39 mm. 

 The curve of heights shows a strong maximum at 22 mm. 

 Fleuredonte acuta goniasmos A. D. B. Plate XI, figs. 8, 9. 



At Cedar Hill wood colony. 



Shell generally rather elevated, consisting of 5 to 5^ whorls, in some 

 cases slightly excavated above the periphery on the last whorl, espe- 

 cially in the higher forms othei-wise convex at this point; with an 

 index varying from .472 to .656, but in 69 per cent, of the specimens 



Fig. 13.— Cedar Hill. 



it runs between .50 and .60 and is distributed as follows: under .50 

 in 4 specimens, .50-.55 in 13, .55-.60 in 16 and above .60 in 7 specimens. 

 Three of these 7 specimens are very large semi-fossil shells, measuring 

 40 to 41^ mm. in diameter, the other 4 are small, very high shells of 

 the fresh, living series, and range in size from 21 x 32 mm. to 225 x 36 

 mm. In the diagram of the measurements of this colony (fig. 13) 




154 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP [Feb., 



the six semi-fossil shells are readily picked out, as they are seen to be 

 the largest in the series. There are all gradations between the very 

 high spired type and those which are moderately elevated only, but, 

 as will be seen from the indices given above, only a very small number, 

 less than 10 per cent., have an index near that of the Somerset normal 

 forms or the flatter ones from Kendal Road colony. 



Average dimensions are height 21 mm., width 37 mm., index .568; 

 mean divergence varying from 90°-95° up to 105°-110°. The widths 

 vary from 32 mm. to 43^ mm., but 29 of the shells (69 per cent.) have 

 widths varying from 35 mm. to 39 mm. The heights also fluctuate 

 widely, depending upon whether the shell has the more depressed or 

 more elevated form. 



The shells of this colony are both one-toothed and two-toothed forms, 

 but the one-toothed form predominates and where two teeth are 

 present they are of very unequal size, the outer one being well-developed 

 and the inner one very rudimentary. More than 67 per cent, of the 

 specimens have only the outer tooth developed, the rest have the 

 outer quite large, but the inner one small. The number of examples 

 studied was 42, and their dimensions are given, with their frequency 

 curves, in fig. 13. 

 Flearodonte acuta goniasmos A. D. B. Plat« XI, figs. 10, 11. 



At King Edward Hotel wood colony. 



Shell more uniformly elevated than in any other colony, consisting 

 of 5 to 5| whorls; the last whorl convex above and below, next to 

 the periphery ; very rarely is there a trace of excavation at this point. 

 The whorls are somewhat convex above in those inside of the fifth 

 whorl in some cases, in others the spire is more straight on the slope. 

 The index runs uniformly higher than in the shells from the other 

 colonies examined ; in only one case out of 63 specimens does the index 

 fall below .50 (to .487) and onty 12 are below .55; that is, only 19 per 

 cent, of the specimens examined. Of the rest, 31 specimens, or 49 

 per cent., are between .55 and .60; 19 specimens, or 30 per cent., have 

 an index between .60 and .65, and one exceeds .65, being .658. In all, 

 81 per cent, show an index of .55 or above, and the average index for 

 the colony is .585, much higher than any other examined. The shells 

 of this colony do not vary in size quite so much as in some others; 

 the extreme range of size is between 20 x 32 mm. and 23 x 42 mm. ; 

 most of them run between 21 x 35 mm. and 23 x 40 mm. The 

 shells are prevailingly two-toothed, of the entire number examined 

 in regard to this character, 68 in all, those with two teeth number 

 55 or 81 per cent, and the two teeth are both well-developed, although 




1911.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



155 



the inner tooth is somewhat smaller than the outer. The remaining 

 19 per cent, had only one tooth. Average dimensions are: height 

 22.4 mm. ; width 38.2 mm. ; index .585 ; mean divergence 98° to 102°. 

 This colony, the King Edward woods, is near the Benmore woods and 

 the Cedar Hill woods, but is at present completely isolated from either 

 as well as from other patches of woodland. From the proprietor of 

 the King Edward Hotel I learn that it has been in its present condition 

 for a generation, and is nearly untouched virgin woods. The constant 

 character of a higher spire seems to have been fixed since the isolation 

 of the colony, as the forms must have migrated in from the direction 

 of Benmore woods or of Cedar Hill, judging from the topography. 



Fig. 14. — King Edward 



Fig. 14 gives the individual dimensions of the shells of this colony 

 and shows distinctly, in the regidarity of the frequency curves of the 

 two different dimensions, the unity of the colony and its undisturbed 

 character. The curves here are progressive to the maxima and sym- 

 metrical, they do not indicate any admixture of foreign individual to 

 disturb the integrity of the race, but they do appear to indicate an 

 equilibration of the forms to the environment. The maximum of 

 width is rather sharp, that of height is more gradually attained. As 

 there seems to be in all of this stock a high and a low form intermin- 

 gling, this isolated colony would seem to have nearl}^ attained an equi- 

 librium and fixed the characters of the new high-spired race. Topo- 

 graphically, this woods is lower in altitude than the Benmore or Bloom- 




156 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



field stations, but the old high-spired form shown on the Bloomfield 

 diagram in the extinct shells is probably here found surviving in a 

 more diminutive form. It is a hill-top race, for the King Edward 

 woods is all hill-top, while the neighboring Benmore woods is cleared 

 at the hill-top and the Cedar Hill woods includes hill-top and slopes 

 and is much more wet than King Edward Hotel woods, so that stunt- 

 ing due to dry conditions is not so operative there. The species is 

 still very plentiful here, another indication of adjustment of the forms 

 to their environment. But, if such an adjustment as seems to be 

 indicated has really taken place, it must have been accomplished 

 since the isolation of this patch of woodland by the encroaching 

 cultivation; that is, since the settlement and clearing of the adjoining 

 lands, and probably within 20 or 30 years. That such change of 

 conditions due to the influence of man in clearing the forest has re- 

 sulted in smaller races in some species is easily demonstrated in the 

 case of other Jamaican land mollusca, and some examples of it I 

 intend to consider in a subsequent paper. 



A comparison of the forms from these nine colonies, including the 

 four types described from Somerset, whorl by whorl, as was done in 

 the case of Pleurodonie bainbridgei from the five colonies compared 

 under that species, shows a very definite gradation in the dimensions. 

 For the purpose of this comparison a small number of specimens, 

 five to ten, chosen as typical examples of each type or colony and 

 representing the variation in size, were selected, making twelve groups 

 of specimens, or some 75 specimens in all. Each one of these was 

 then measured for its diameter at the end of the first, second, third, 

 fourth and fifth whorl, also for its greatest diameter and height. The 

 number of whorls and fractions of a whorl were noted. In measuring 

 the diameters at the end of the first, second, etc., whorls all measure- 

 ments started at the protoconch origin. In the larger snails the 

 beginning of the suture is generally straight for half a miUimeter 

 or more and this straight part prolonged becomes a tangent to the 

 curving suture line. From the beginning of the suture a line was 

 drawn radially, and tangent to the first part of the suture ; where this 

 line crossed the suture was taken as the end of the whorls. The 

 series of measurements thus obtained are strictly comparable, being 

 all made on the same basis. With the heights and greatest widths 

 they amounted to some 500 measurements in twelve series; and in 

 nearly all cases represent 7 measurements for each shell. These were 

 then taken in each series or type, whorl by whorl, and the correspond- 

 ing measurements averaged, giving for each of the twelve types or 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 157 



series the average width at each whorl, the average greatest width 

 and height. The same method was employed in measuring the 

 dimensions of P. bainbridgei shown in fig. 4. Upon plotting and com- 

 paring these measurements (fig. 6), it was seen that when the colonies or 

 types represented were arranged geographically they were at the same 

 time sorted out into two series in which the gradation of size was con- 

 tinuous from one end to the other in each. These two series are (1) the 

 four types from the Somerset colony, Somerset Road, Ridge near Lin- 

 coln, Garrett's woods, Bloomfield; and (2) Kendal Road, Benmore, 

 Cedar Hill woods and King Edward Hotel woods. The first has eight 

 members, from five colonies, the second represents four colonies. The 

 first group (1) represents a line from Somerset and Ridge near Lincoln, 

 approaching Mandeville from the northwest, and terminating at 

 Bloomfield on the western outskirts of the town; the second group 

 (2) reaches from Kendal Road on the northeast to the King Edward 

 Hotel woods on the east of the town. They may very well represent 

 two migration lines, as the forms probably migrated into this region 

 from the north. The two ends near the town are separated by a 

 high ridge and much cleared land, but the forms may have mingled 

 in the past. These two groups of measurements are represented in 

 fig. 6. The first at the top of the diagram is the Somerset-Bloomfield 

 group, the lower is the Kendal Road-King Edward woods group. 



The Somerset-Bloomfield Group. 



The largest form of P. a. goniasmos found in the Mandeville district 

 is the extinct race at Somerset, designated as Sm. Ex. in the diagram, 

 with an average of 5| whorls and measuring 31 x 58 mm., with an 

 index of .535. Then follows the gully forms (Sm. G.), the normal 

 Somerset forms (Sm. N.), and the hill-top forms (Sm. T.). The 

 successive whorls are marked 1, 2, 3, 4, 5; the height (Ht.) and the 

 width are marked in black dots. It will be noticed that there is a 

 gradual decrease in size in these four types in each whorl ; even the 

 first whorl showing this decrease, which indicates that the dwarfing 

 begins in the egg. The irregular variation in height, and therefore in 

 index, shown in the Somerset gully form (Sm. G.) is an expression of 

 the observation that this form does not have the shape of the others 

 and is probably another race, though closely related. The diminution 

 in size for the whorls is accelerated after the third whorl and becomes 

 very pronounced in the fifth whorl, but the width varies much more 

 rapidly (as shown by the greatest width) than the height (Ht.). The 

 index of the extinct form is, however, higher than that of the hilt-top 




158 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



form, .535 as against .525. Comparing with these the other members 

 of this series we see that the dimiensions continue to decrease on the 

 whole and the indices to increase, at least as far as Garrett's woods, 

 which is really beyond Mandeville; though the Ridge near Lincoln 

 forms (R. nr. L.) average somewhat higher than those of Garrett's 

 woods (G. W.) and Bloomfield (Blm.), they are also higher than the 

 wider form at Somerset Road colony (Sm. R.). The index of the 

 Ridge near Lincoln form is then somewhat higher than that of the 

 Garrett's woods form, but not higher than that of the Bloomfield form. 

 There is hence a slight irregularity in the curve of heights and indices. 

 The topography of the country renders it very probable that Garrett's 

 woods and Bloomfield are in a migration line from the north, in which 

 the Somerset and Somerset Road colonies would be the first stations 

 represented on this diagram, or in this collection; the Ridge near 

 Lincoln colony would probably be a station on another line from the 

 Somerset region. That the forms migrated from the north, the high 

 backbone of the island, after the last submergence of the island, is 

 almost certain from the topography; therefore the forms whose 

 measurements are given on this diagram, being arranged geographi- 

 cally, might represent the variation in a stock along a migration line. 



The Kendal Road — King Edward Hotel Woods Group. 



A similar migration line is probably represented in the lower part 

 of fig. 6, which gives the measurements for the Kendal Road (K. R.), 

 Benmore woods (Ben.), Cedar Hill woods (C. H.) and King Edward 

 Hotel woods (K. E.). In this series, again, variation begins with the 

 third whorl, and becomes more pronounced in the succeeding whorls. 

 The height and width decrease for the first three stations, but rise 

 again at the fourth. This series was arranged geographically, but 

 also to show a constant rise of index, as the Cedar Hill woods and 

 King Edward Hotel woods are about equally distant from the Kendal 

 Road Station. The rise in the index from the Kendal Road to King 

 Edward woods is, as the diagram shows, from .55 to .585; although 

 both width and height diminish from the one station to the other, the 

 index rises, that is, the spire rises proportionately to the width. 

 The index, therefore, gives a direct means of comparison of the relative 

 heights of the spires ; as it rises, the spire becomes higher. As has been 

 stated above, this change in form is observed in passing from station 

 to station in each of the series represented in fig. 6; that is, a geo- 

 graphical arrangement of the forms is also a morphological one. 




1911.] natural sciences of philadelphia. 159 



Variation in the Two Groups. 



At Somerset, in passing from the base of the hills or from the valleys 

 to the hill-tops, the form is observed to change, and the rise is quite 

 noticeable as the tops of the hills are reached. From Somerset to 

 the Ridge near Lincoln the rise in the spire is still continued, and this 

 latter locality is a hill-top. At Garrett's woods and at Bloomfield 

 the spires are higher than at any of the Somerset stations and as high 

 or higher than at the Ridge near Lincoln. In the other series, from 

 Kendal Road to the woods at King Edward Hotel, there is a similar 

 rise in the spire. This change in the form cannot be correlated with 

 change of altitude measured from sea level, but is directly connected 

 with a diminution in size ; as the size of the shell diminishes the shape 

 changes, and the ratio of height to width increases, or the spire rises. 

 Examined locally, as at Somerset, this change may be seen in passing 

 from the base to the top of a hill, so that it may be stated that valley 

 forms and those living at the base of the hill are lower in the spire 

 than those living at the hill-top. The only place where valley and 

 gully forms were seen in a natural, undisturbed condition was at 

 Somerset. In passing from the gullies and shaded valleys, with their 

 wealth of rank tropical vegetation and the ground covered with a 

 thick moist layer of dead leaves, to the stony hill-top, with its hardwood 

 trees and broom-palm, the number of specimens encountered became 

 greatly reduced. On some hills at Somerset, scarcely a ground- 

 living shell, such as Pleurodonte, was seen at the top of the hill, yet 

 the shade of the woods was often very dense. But an examination 

 of the gi'oimd showed that the surface coating of leaves was dry, it 

 was mostly the fallen leaves of the broom-palm, which decay very 

 slowly and do not form a good material for the growth of the fungus 

 upon which the Pleurodontes appear to feed. The palm leaves form 

 a sort of thatch on the ground and shed the water on the hill-top, 

 hence the leaves are dry ; and the loose stone on most of these hill-tops 

 makes a porous layer, through which what water penetrates the palm 

 thatch soon drains away. Comparing these Somerset hills with those 

 examined elsewhere in the more cultivated regions, the comparatively 

 small number of individual specimens encountered upon the hill-tops 

 was very noticeable. But the moUuscan population throughout all 

 of this undisturbed region on the Somerset plantation was much less 

 dense than in the majority of places that were examined in the more 

 disturbed regions, and probably represents the original condition in 

 these more cultivated parts. In such places as the localities in the 

 cleared and cultivated region near Mandeville, as Garrett's woods, 




160 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



Bloomfield, Benmore woods, King Edward Hotel woods and Cedar 

 Hill woods, many of the forms probably were driven to the hills by 

 the advancing cultivations, and the molluscan population hence 

 became more dense in these places. This would mean a mingling of 

 the lower-grourfd forms with the hill-top forms, yet the general hill-top 

 character is more pronounced here than in the hills at Somerset. 

 The larger forms were absorbed by the hill-top races in these cases, 

 and the clearing killed off the lower-groimd forms that did not migrate, 

 so that the smaller hill-top races were no longer strengthened by the 

 constant mingling with the lower-ground forms and hence the reduced 

 size became a fixed character. These isolated hill-tops, therefore, 

 became isolated colonies, and strict equilibration of the forms within 

 contracted environment, both as to the external influences and the 

 mixture of substance due to hybridity. without mingling of the blood 

 from the larger lower-ground forms, the supply of which was now cut 

 off by their extinction due to advancing cultivation, could begin. 

 The result is the development of the small hill-top forms now char- 

 acteristic of these colonies near Mandeville, or what may be called 

 the Mandeville race of P. a. goniasmos. They differ from the lower- 

 ground forms, as has been shown, by being of smaller size and by 

 having a proportionately higher spire; but, in the colonies near 

 Mandeville, these characters are accentuated, as compared with the 

 hill-top forms found in the Somerset region, where mingling with the 

 larger, and in general flatter, forms is still possible. 



The Migrations, 



Comparing all of the forms from all of the colonies, as is done in 

 fig. 6, shows not only apparent migration lines, but indicates two waves 

 of migration into the region from the north. The first was probably 

 represented in the extinct Somerset race, and these as they moved 

 south towards Mandeville became differentiated, as I have pointed 

 out. The very old dead shells of the Mandeville region are generally 

 rather high in the spire, higher than the living forms at Somerset of 

 the same diameter. The Somerset gully forms I take to represent 

 a second migration, they are the lower-spired form. At Somerset, the 

 normal race has come from a mingling of these two stocks by long- 

 continued hybridity, and the Somerset hill-top form with its reduced 

 size is the result of this mingling. The same flat forms that resulted 

 from this hybrid stock were seen at the Kendal Road and at the 

 Somerset Road colonies ; this hybrid, migrating into country occupied 

 by the older, higher-spired forms, and mingling with them, produced 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 161 



the present Mandeville race. But this Mandeville race, as we see it 

 now in the hill-top colonies that remain, is a development from this 

 mingling of the older, high-spired form, and the later hybrid of this 

 with the lower-spired gully form, this hybrid having come into the 

 Mandeville district as a second migration wave. And the result of 

 this mingling here to the south of Somerset has become, on account 

 of its isolation in the hill-top colonies, a smaller, still higher-spired 

 race than the ancestral one. 



Causes of the Variation. 



The rise of the spire from the bottom to the top of the hill or from 

 the valley or gully to the top of the hill has been noted in other cases, 

 but the cause assigned for the change of form has generally been the 

 hypsometric change of pressure. Thus Arnauld Locard, in his 

 Etudes sur les variations malacologique du Bassin du Rhone, published 

 in 1881, says that the elongation of the spire is one of the effects of 

 change of altitude upon molluscs. This had been noted previously 

 by A. C. Recluz, in the case of Helix pomatia in the mountains of the 

 Auvergne, and also in Helix aspersa in the region of the Midi. Locard 

 made similar observations in the case of H. pomatia in passing from 

 Lyons to Grenoble. Both observers noted a rise in the spire in passing 

 from the lower to the higher altitude and both attribute this change 

 in form to the diminution of air pressure in the higher altitude. In a 

 paper published in 1904^ Raffaelo Bellini reiterates this view that the 

 elongation or rise of the spire is to be attributed to the influence of the 

 diminished atmospheric pressure. Bellini's observations were on 

 species observed on the island of Capri, and are embodied in a previous 

 paper entitled, Alcune osservazioni sulla distrihuzione ipsometrica 

 dei molluschi terrestri nelV isola di Capri,*' in which he notes the elonga- 

 tion of the spire in passing from the base to the tops of the hills, and 

 attributes it to the diminution of the atmospheric pressure. That 

 this is not the predominant cause in the case of the species considered 

 in this paper the foregoing descriptions will make clear, for here we 

 find at Somerset, some 2,250 feet in elevation, the lowest-spired forms 

 of P. a. goniasmos encountered, while at the Somerset Road colony the 

 spire is higher, but the altitude above sea level lower, less than 2,000 

 feet. At the Ridge near Lincoln the elevation is about 2,800 feet, 

 but the form of P. a. goniasmos found here is lower in spire than that 



^ R. Bellini, L'influenza dei mezzi come causa di variazione e di disperzione 

 nei molluschi, Bolletino del Societa da naturalisti in Napoli, XVIII, 1904, p. 159. 

 * Rendiconto del II Cong. Zool. Italiano, Naples, 1901. 

 11 




162 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



collected at the King Edward woods at an elevation of less than 2,000 

 feet, probably nearly one-third nearer the sea level than the Ridge 

 near Lincoln colony. But the diminution in size in passing from the 

 valleys and bases of the hills to the tops, which accompanies the rise 

 of the spire, is an undoubted fact, although diminished atmospheric 

 pressure is not here the controlling factor. That it should ever be a 

 controlling factor does not seem likely, as the variation from day to 

 day in barometric pressure at a given point may, in this latitude, at 

 least, amount to what would be equivalent to a difference in elevation 

 of 1,000 feet or even as much as 1,500 feet inside of 24 hours. The 

 diminution in size and the rise in spire are independent of absolute 

 altitude above sea level, but are noted in passing from the bottom to 

 the top of one hill. There is in P. a. goniasmos a direct connection 

 between these two characters, the size and the height of spire vary 

 inversely. The cause of the diminution in size may well be the cause 

 of the rise of the spire also. From the observations that I have made 

 upon these Jamaica mollusks this diminution in size, which accompanies 

 the rise in the height of the spire, appears to be controlled mainly 

 by the distribution of moisture. Variations in the conditions of 

 moisture may occur quite independently of the altitude, and I expect 

 in a subsequent paper to discuss this influence in connection with 

 some other species where altitude is not a factor, and where the dis- 

 tribution of moisture is not controlled by the altitude nor by the 

 topography. 



On the hill-tops, as has been pointed out, the amount of moisture 

 found in the ground, in the leaf cover in which these Pleurodonts live, 

 is less than on the slopes of the hills, and, from the wooded valleys' and 

 gullies to the hill-tops, this moisture in the leaf cover steadily dimin- 

 ishes, so that, as has been shown, the available food for the moUuscs 

 diminishes from the lower ground to the hill-top. Quite as important 

 is the fact that the hill-tops are only moist and the conditions of 

 moisture favorable for the growth of the mollusks at intervals fol- 

 lowing rains. In the gullies and wooded valleys the supply of mois- 

 ture and food is continuous, on the hill-tops it is intermittent. 

 The forms living in the hollows and lower ground at any place are, 

 therefore, continuously supplied with the necessaries of life, while 

 those living on the hills are supplied intermittently. Growth is 

 continuous in the lower-ground forms, but it proceeds with many 

 stoppages on the hill-tops. In a given period of time, therefore, the 

 lower-ground forms can grow on more days, perhaps often on twice as 

 many days or even more, than those living in the higher slopes and 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 1^3 



hill-tops. In a given time the valley and gully forms can attain a 

 much larger size than the hill- top forms. 



There is one dry season in the island and, in general, in the West 

 Indies, during the months from December until the ''spring rains" 

 begin, in April or May, and during this dry time the showers are rare. 

 For the rest of the year they may occur at any time, with maximum 

 rainfall in May and November in most years. During the dry season, 

 all of the Pleurodontes are more or less inactive ; when the rains begin 

 in April, they at once begin to pair. The young born one summer 

 have grown to the adult state and pair the next summer. Those 

 which have had the greater number of days of activity or of growth — 

 the gully and lower-ground forms — ^will hence reach a larger size than 

 those which have had, say, half as many growing days during the wet 

 season; all have been inactive during the dry season. In the two 

 cases the growing days may stand as one to two, the inactive period 

 of the dry season is common to both, and after the same lapse of time 

 in each case the animal becomes adult. Naturally the form that 

 could grow on the greater number of days and the form that had the 

 most abundant food supply will attain the larger size. The diminu- 

 tion in size on the hill-tops can thus be connected with the conditions 

 of moisture, the supply during the growing season being less in these 

 situations. 



The rise of the spire is effected by a closer coiling of the whorl or 

 the suture line drops more rapidly as the spire rises, and the diameter 

 of the coil, the cross section of the aperture, does not increase so rapidly 

 as when the spire is flatter. In a subsequent paper on the growth of 

 the shell I hope to treat this matter more at length. Any mechanical 

 injury to the shell results in the dropping of the whorl below the 

 periphery and a consequent rise of the spire. Lessened vitality, due 

 to insufficient food supply or mal-nutrition of any kind, or in general 

 what may be considered pathological conditions, seems to produce 

 the same effect — a dropping of the coil and a consequent rise of the 

 spire. Frequent stoppages of the growth of the animal due to periodic 

 times of dryness would probably have the same tendency. On the 

 hill-tops we find these conditions of periodic dryness and mal-nutrition 

 during the season when the forms living in the lower ground are grow- 

 ing continuously under optimum conditions of moisture and food 

 supply, and these conditions seem to me to be the controlling factors 

 in the variation in size and form of shell observed, aside, of course, 

 from the effects of isolation on hybridity. 



Isolation under such conditions as obtain upon the hill-tops results 

 eventually in an adaptation of the substance of the organism to its 




164 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



environment, however, and the equilibration produces a race that 

 can live under such conditions, so that the number of individuals does 

 not diminish in a given area, but rather increases with the diminution 

 of size ; by which a given food supply wDl serve for a larger number 

 of smaller individuals. 



Explanation of Plates VII-XI. 



Plate VII. — Pleurodonte (Eurycratera) jamaicensis Gmel. 



Figs. 1, 2. — ^The rather large forms from the Somerset colonies. 



Figs. 3, 4. — A larger and smaller form from the Ridge near Lincoln colony; 



these are quite as large as the Somerset race. 

 Figs. 5, 6. — ^The small race from Garrett's woods colon3^ 



Plate VIII. — Pleurodonte bainbridgei Pfr. 



Figs. 1, 2. — ^The form of the shell of this species at the Somerset colonies; 

 it is the P. bainbridgei pretiosa of C. B. Adams. 



Figs. 3, 4. — ^Two shells showing the form of the species at the Ridge near 

 Lincoln colony, which somewhat approaches the P. b. pretiosa of Adams. 



Figs. 5, 6. — ^Two shells from the Garrett's woods colony, showing the very 

 slight depression of the suture line, much less so than at the Ridge near 

 Lincoln . 



Figs. 7, 8. — Two shells from the Benmore woods colony showing the depres- 

 sion of the suture at a minimum. 



Figs. 9, 10. — ^Two shells from the Cedar Hill woods colony, showing their 

 close resemblance to those from Benmore woods. 



Plate IX. — Pleurodonte acuta goniasmos A. D. B. At Somerset. 



Figs. 1, 2. — ^The extinct race at Somerset which shows the rather high 

 spire of this type. 



Figs. 3, 4. — ^The Somerset gully race, with its acute periphery and mod- 

 erately elevated spire. 



Figs. 5, 6. — ^The normal Somerset form found nearly everywhere except in 

 the gullies and on the hill-tops. 



Figs. 7, 8. — ^The Somerset hill-top form, a small race of the normal form. 



Plate X. — Pleurodonte acuta goniasmos A. D. B. The Somerset Road to 



Bloomfield series. 

 Figs. 1, 2. — Forms from the Somerset Road colony, the present race is of 



the general type of the normal Somerset forms. 

 Figs. 3, 4. — ^The living forms from the Ridge near Lincoln colony. 

 Fig. 5. — ^The extinct race at Garrett's woods colony, showing the relatively 



high spire. 

 Figs. 6, 7. — Living forms from the Garrett's woods colony. 

 Fig. 8. — ^The extinct race at the Bloomfield colony, showing the rather high 



spire of this type. 

 Figs. 9, 10.— Living forms from the Bloomfield colony. 



Plate XI. — Pleurodonte acuta goniasmos A. D. B. The Kendal Road to King 



Edward Hotel woods series. 

 Fig. 1. — ^The extinct race at the Kendal Road colony. 

 Fig. 2. — Living form of high-spire type at the Kendal Road colonies. 

 Figs. ?t, 5. — Living forms of the flat typ^ at the Kendal Road colonies. 

 Figs. 4, 6, 7. — Living forms from the Benmore woods colony. Fig. 4 is a 



two-toothed form and 6 is a one-toothed form. 

 Figs. 8, 9. — Living form from the Cedar Hill woods colony. 

 Fig. 10. — Living form from King Edward Hotel woods colony of average 



size; the highest-spired forms were found here. They closely resemble 



Pleurodonte abnormis Pfr. 

 Fig. 11. — Living form from same locality as 10, about the smallest specimen 



taken at this locality. 



Note. — All figures in Plates VII-XI are natural size. 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 165 



SCAPHOPODA OF THE JAMAICAN OLIGOCENE AND COSTA EICAN PLIOCENE. 

 BY HENRY A. PILSBRY. 



Extensive collections of the fossils of the Upper Oligocene beds at 

 Bowden, Jamaica, were made for the Academy some years ago by the 

 late Uselma C. Smith and Mr. Silas L. Schumo. While preparing a 

 monograph on the recent Scaphopoda for the Manual of Conchology^ 

 in 1897-8, the writer determined the species of these beds, and pre- 

 pared the following descriptions and figures. Through oversight they 

 were not published at that time. 



Of nine species in our collection from the Bowden bed, two are 

 represented by fragments too incomplete for characterization. Two 

 are identical with forms from the Oligocene of Santo Domingo,^ but 

 the number of species common to the two beds may be increased when 

 the smaller species are collected in Santo Domingo. 



The occurrence of rich Oligocene faunas of strictly littoral and suh- 

 littoral fades at levels but little above the modern sea level, in both 

 Jamaica and Santo Domingo, indicates emphatically that there was 

 no such general and profound or total submergence of that area during 

 the upper Oligocene as has been assumed by Dr. Schuckert.^ 



It is, moreover, inconceivable to students of the land-snails of the 



West Indies that the peculiar special faunas of the several islands 



could have been evolved since the Oligocene. 



Dentaliam costaricense n. sp. Fig. 3. 



D. d-entale Gabb, Joum. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., n. ser., VIII, p. 369 (in part). 

 D. costaricense Pilsbry, Manual of Conchology, XVII, p. 254 (name only). 



Shell moderately curved, solid, moderately tapering. Surface 

 sculptured with numerous somewhat unequal longitudinal rounded 

 cords, separated by interstices as wide as themselves, with threads 

 in some of the intervals, about 28 cords at the larger end, not counting 

 the interposed threads; towards the smaller end alternate cords 

 become more prominent, especially on the concave side; there are 

 moderate, oblique growth-striae throughout. Aperture oblique, with 

 thin peristome. Both orifices circular. 



^ Manual of Conchology, vol. XVII. 



^Scaphopoda of the Santo Domingo Oligocene, Proc. A. N. S. Phila. for 

 1897, pp. 465-476. 



^ Paleogeography of North America, plate 97. 




166 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Feb., 



Length 25^ mm. (posterior end broken) ; greatest diam. 3.7 mm, 

 Pliocene(?), Costa Rica, William M. Gabb. 



This species was referred to the European D. dentalis by Gabb, but 

 it is not closely allied to that species. 



Bentalinm (Tesseracme) dissimile Guppy. 



Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., 1897, p. 469, pi. XI, figs. 3-5 (January 18, 1898). 



A common form in the Bowden bed, and the largest Jamaican 

 species. 



Figs. 1, 2. 

 Dentalium madlentum. 



Fig. 3. 

 D. costaricense. 



Fig. 4. 

 Cadulus simrothi. 



Bentaliam (Episiphon) macilentam a. sp. Figs. 1, 2. 



Shell small, moderately curved, excessively slender, slightly tapering; 

 surface smooth, somewhat glossy, with slight growth-lines only. Tube 

 very strongly compressed laterally throughout, wider and thicker along 

 the concave than the convex side. Both apertures oval or oblong. 

 Young stage acicular. 



Dimensions of largest (though imperfect) specimen: Length 8.8, 

 antero-posterior diameter at aperture 9.1, at apex 0.7 mm.; lateral 

 diameter at aperture 0.7, at apex 0.6 mm, 



Bowden bed. 



An abundant form, very strongly compressed laterally, sometimes 




1911.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



167 



actually flattened on the sides. The shell-wall along the concave 

 side is decidedly thicker than that opposite along the convex side. 



Another Episiphon, of very slender form, thin shell and circular 

 section, occurs in the Santo Domingo Oligocene beds. As the material 

 is not very abundant, only one being presumably adult, the species 

 was omitted from my account of the Scaphopods of that deposit. 

 The largest specimen seen has a length of 13 mm. and a greatest 

 diameter of 0.9 mm., and is almost smooth. 

 Sentalium (Episiphon) sohumoi n- sp. Fig. 5. 



Shell small, slightly curved, excessively slender, the adults but 

 slightly tapering, young shells acicular; rather thin; surface finely 

 striated circularly, becoming on the posterior half strongly annulated 

 by rather regularly spaced, close grooves, slightly oblique, and cutting 

 the surface into narrow segments much as in D. (Fustiaria) circinatum. 

 Tube strongly compressed laterally throughout; apex simple or with a 

 short projecting pipe or tube. 



Length 8.2, antero-posterior diameter at aperture 0.78, at apex 0.56 

 mm.; lateral diam. at aperture 0.6, at apex 0.46 mm. The specimen 

 has evidently lost in length by breakage. 



Bowden bed, not uncommon. 



O 



Fig. .5. — Dentalium schumoi, specimens of various ages. 




168 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



Strongly compressed laterally, and readily distinguished by the 

 circular sculpture. It is named in honor of Mr. Silas L. Schumo, who 

 collected the material. 

 Dentalium (Bhabdus) sp. undet.- 



Numerous fragments of a slowly tapering species, circular in section, 

 glossy, and very thin throughout, occur in the Bowden beds. The 

 largest measures 3.6 mm. in diameter. The thinness of the entire 

 tube and the circular section of the smaller end readily distinguish the 

 species from D. dissimile Guppy, but the fragments at hand are too 

 imperfect for definition of the species. 



Cadalus depressiooUis Pilsbry and Sharp. 



Proc. Acad. N. S. Phila., 1897, p. 473, pi. 11, figs. 25-27. 

 Characteristic fragments of this species, originally described from 

 Santo Domingo, are found in the Bowden beds. 



Cadulns dentalinus (Guppy). 



PUsbry and Sharp, Manual of Conchology, XVTI, p. 190, pi. 36, figs. 21, 22. 



Bowden beds, abundant. This is the type locality. Specimens 

 received from Mr. Guppy have been figured in my volume on recent 

 Scaphopods, where the relationships of the species are discussed 

 {I. c, pp. 188-190). 

 Cadalus annulatns n. sp. 



Rather a large, slender species of the group of C. dentalinus. The 

 swelling is only slight and near the anterior end; tube subcircular in 

 section, a trifle flattened on the convex side at the oblique aperture; 

 sculpture of very fine, close, oblique wrinkles throughout. The 

 length is about 7 J nam., greatest diameter 1 nun. 



Bowden, Jamaica. 



This species is represented by imperfect specimens only. It may 

 be recognized by the very fine wrinkles and slight swelling. 



Cadulns sp. undet. 



A Cadulus, of the subgenus Polyschides, occurs in the Bowden beds, 

 but only fragments are in the collection. There are several species 

 belonging to the same group in the Eocene and Oligocene of the 

 southern United States. 



Cadulus simrothi n. sp. Fig. 3. 



Shell minute, smooth, slightly arcuate, hiconic, strongly swollen in 

 the middle, rapidly tapering toward both ends, produced in a short 

 tube posteriorly; greatest diameter contained about 2^ times in the 

 length of the shell. Outline of the most convex side irregular, the 

 contours being but slightly convex above and below the "equator," 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 169 



and sometimes a little concave near the posterior orifice; outline of 

 the opposite side' similar, but less convex. Tube circular in section 

 at "equator" and aperture, decidedly oval at posterior or anal orifice, 

 being compressed on the convex and less so on the concave side. 

 Aperture much larger than the other orifice, oblique, the peristome 

 thin. Anal orifice oval, decidedly wider than long, obstructed by a 

 circular callus within; edges unslit. 



Length 2.1 mm.; diameter at aperture 0.37, at greatest swelling 

 0.9 mm.; antero-posterior diameter at apex 0.27, lateral diameter 

 0.3 mm. 



Bowden, Jamaica. 



This is, I believe, the earliest member of the typical group of Cadulus 

 yet known. It is not unlike the recent C. exiguus Watson, but this 

 species is a little broader, the diameter contained 2^ times in the 

 length. In C. exiguus the shell is "contracted into a tube at either 

 end." In C. simrothi the posterior end only is tubular and the shell 

 is a little larger. 




170 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



March 7. 

 The President, Samuel G, Dixon, M.D,, LL.D., in the Chau-* 



Fifty-three persons present. 



The death of Benjamin Chew Tilghman, a member, March 6, 1911, 

 was announced. 



The Committee on the Hayden Memorial Award was elected as 

 follows : 



Richard A. F. Penrose, Jr., Henry F. Osborn, Amos P. Brown, 

 Frederick Prime and Edgar T. Wherry. 



The Council reported that Mr. George ^^aux, Jr., had been appointed 

 Solicitor of the Academy, and Mr. Frank J. Keeley Curator of the 

 William S. Vaux Collections. 



Dr. Henry Tucker made a communication on the dangerously 

 poisonous snakes of the United States. (No abstract.) 



March 21. 

 Henry Skinner, M.D., in the Chair. 



Nineteen persons present. 



The death of Amos R. Little, a member, December 16, 1906, was 

 recorded. 



Thomas H. Montgomery, Ph.D., read a paper on the extension 

 of the usefulness of natural history museums. (No abstract.) 



Remarks on New Cirripedes. — Dr. H. A. Pilsbry spoke of certain 

 barnacles of the genus Alepas living attached to large Discomedusse. 

 The history of the genus was recounted. Alepas is remarkable for 

 the lightness of its organization. The external tunic is very thin; 

 the cirri are short, weak, and but slightly chitinized. The genus was 

 instituted by Sander Rang for a form obtained off the Strait of Gibraltar 

 about the year 1817. No modern account of this Atlantic Alepas has 

 been published, but subsequent authors referred to the same genus a 

 long series of nude barnacles living attached to a solid substratum, 

 but which differ in important features from the true Alepas. For 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 171 



these discrepant forms the speaker has erected the genera Heteralepas 

 and Paralepas. A true Alepas has been found in the eastern Pacific, 

 A. pacifica Pils. Figures were exhibited of two additional species, 

 obtained by the U. S. Fisheries Steamer "Albatross" in the Philip- 

 pines. 



Among other barnacles commensal on decapod Crustacea, obtained 

 at the Johns Hopkins tropical laboratory at Montego Bay, Jamaica, 

 and submitted by Dr. John Paul Givler, there is a new form of 

 Octolasmis, remarkable for the completely calcified plates. In all 

 other known species of the genus the calcified portions of the plates 

 have been reduced. This is therefore a form retaining archaic or 

 ancestral features. It was found on a spider crab, and may be de- 

 scribed as follows: 



Octolasmis prototypus, n. sp. (figs. 2, 3). — The capitulum is 

 acutely ovate, almost entirely covered by the well-calcified plates, 

 which have the white color and dense texture of the plates of Lepas. 

 The scutum is divided by an arcuate slit into a longer occludent and a 

 shorter, triangular lateral segment. The latter is acute above, rounded 

 at the two basal angles, and nearly as high as wide. liike the tergum, 

 it has faint sculpture of concentric and radiating striae. The tergum 

 is very large, about as long as the carina, and nearly as long as the 

 scutum. The lower end tapers, and extends between scutum and 

 carina; the upper end is truncated, and the scutal margin a' little 

 hollowed to receive the apex of the scutum. The carina is but little 

 curved and only shortly forked at the base. It is somewhat separated 

 from the other plates. The peduncle is finely annulated in preserved 

 examples, whitish, and decidedly longer than the capitulum, often 

 1^ times its length. 



Length of capitulum 3.6, width 2.5 mm.; length of peduncle 3.5 

 to 4 mm. 



The cirri resemble those of 0. forresti. The first pair is very short, 

 widely removed from the second, its rami consisting of 6 and 7 seg- 

 ments, which are densely hairy. The sixth pair has rami of 14 seg- 

 ments, armed comb-like with spines, 9 or 10 pairs on a segment, as 

 figured by Stebbing for 0. forresti (Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist. (6), XIII, 

 pi. 15, upper right-hand figure). 



Maxillae as in 0. forresti. Mandibles having long spines on the 

 lower side below the lower point. 



This barnacle differs from Poecilasma (Temnaspis) fissum Darwin, 

 and the forms subordinated thereto by Annandale,* by the much wider 

 occludent segment of the scutum, especially wide at its tergal extrem- 

 ity, and by the larger tergum. It is also a much smaller barnacle. 

 In P. fissum, Darwin has shown that the cirri have a special arrange- 

 ment of spines, which arise in transverse linear groups at the distal end 

 of each segment, as in Paralepas or Alepas, whereas in Octolasmis 

 prototypus the spines stand along the anterior side of the segments 

 like the teeth of a comb, as in most other barnacles. Barnacles with 



* Scertryk af Vidensk. Meddel. fra den naturh. i Kbhvn, 1910, p. 216. 




172 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[March, 



the cirri armed in this manner might be designated as denopod; those 

 with cirri in transverse brushes as lasiopod forms. 



Octolasmis antiguce Stebbing^ (which Annandale^ considers to be a 

 form of 0. hoeki Stebbing), differs by the longer, very strongly arched 

 carina and smaller tergum. It is from the maxillipeds of Palinurids. 



Octolasmis occlusa Lanchester, from Kelantan, is not unlike these 

 species, but the segments of the scutum are more separated, of some- 

 what different shape, the carina is much more bowed, and the smaller 

 terga are acute above. 



" Poecilasma^' tridens Aurivillius is evidently a member of this group 

 of Octolasmis, and not a Po^cilasmxi. 



By its fully calcified plates, 0. prototypus is the most primitive of 

 its group. 



Fig. 1 . — Scalpellum hendersoni. 



Figs. 2, 3. — Octolasmis prototypus. 



In the course of dredging along the northern border of Florida Strait, 

 in the yacht "Eohs," cruise of 1910, Mr. John B. Henderson obtained 

 the new Scalpellum, here described. 



Scalpellum hendersoni n. sp. Fig. 1. — The capitulum is com- 

 pressed above, swollen across the lower whorl of plates; white; the 

 length slightly more than double the width; both margins are arched, 

 but the carinal more than the occludent. Plates fully calcified, 

 marked with concentric growth-lines and on the scutum, tergum and 

 upper latus, a few weak radial stria^. 



^Annals and Magazine of Natural History (6). XV, p. 18, pi. 2. 

 ^t. c, p. 217. 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 173 



The scutum is trapezoidal, the occkident and carinal borders sub- 

 parallel, upper and basal margins about equally oblique; umbo terminal. 

 The tergum is triangular; occludent and carinal margins nearly 

 straight and subequal; occludent margin convex. 



The carina is arcuate, more so in its upper third, the umbo apical, 

 slightly above the middle of the carinal margin of the tergum; roof 

 strongly convex, the plate being U-shaped in section. It widens 

 rapidly towards the base, which enters V-like between the carinal 

 latera. Intraparietes very narrow, bounded by a ridge, and visible 

 only in the upper part of the plate. 



Upper lateral plate trapezoidal with apical umbo; the scutal margin 

 is longest, concave above; the tergal next, arcuate; the carinal and 

 basal margins are straight, equal, and at their junction form a right 

 angle. 



The rostral latera are triangular, obtuse at the rostral angle, widening 

 rapidly to the other end. There is no visible rostrum. 



The inframedian lateral plate is narrow and high, contracting 

 perceptibly at the lower fourth, where the umbo is situated. Carinal 

 lateral plates large, irregular, with the umbo at the lower carinal 

 angle. The carinal margin is concave and longest; basal margin 

 about equal to that opposed to the inframedian latus; upper margin, 

 against the upper latus, and shortest. The two latera meet in a very 

 short suture below the carina. 



The peduncle is extremely short, densely covered with large scales 

 in about 7 vertical rows. 



Length of the capitulum 5, width 2.5 mm. Length of the carina 

 3.75 mm. 



Habitat and Station. — ^Ten miles south of Key West, Florida, in 

 125 fathoms, on spines of a sea urchin, Dorocidaris, associated with 

 Verruca nexa alba Pils. Types No. 1890, A. N. S. P., collected by John 

 B. Henderson, Jr. 



Numerous specimens taken of nearly uniform size show it to be 

 adult; a view confirmed by the swollen shape of the lower part of 

 the capitulum. It has much in common with S. gracilius Pils., but 

 the rostral latera are quite different in shape, the carina does not 

 extend so high on the terga, the capitulum is less elongate, and the 

 peduncle has more rows of scales. Nearly all other species which 

 are other^vise related differ by having a flat-roofed carina. 



The following were elected members : 

 John Howa;rd McFadden, 

 Edwin S. Stuart, 

 Bayard Long. 



The following were ordered to be printed : 




174 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[March, 



MOLLUSCA OF THE SOUTHWESTERN STATES, V: THE GBAND CANYON AND 



NOBTHEBN ARIZONA. 



BY HENRY A. PILSBRY AND JAMES H. FERRISS. 



Prior to 1906 the work on 

 region had been confined to 



Fig. 1. — Grand Canyon in the 

 vicinity of Bass Trail and 

 Shinumo Creek, showing col- 

 lecting stations, expedition 

 of 1906. Reduced and sim- 

 plified from U. S. Geol. Surv. 

 Topographic map, Shinumo 

 quadrangle, edit, of August, 

 1908. 



southwestern molkisks of the mountain 

 southern and central New Mexico and 

 Arizona. Between this region and the 

 districts in Colorado and northern Utah 

 which have been explored for snails, 

 a great area, including the Grand 

 Canyon of the Colorado, remained 

 unworked. To obtain some knowl- 

 edge of this region, the authors spent 

 the month of October, 1906, in the 

 Grand Canyon; also collecting on Bill 

 Williams Mountain (elevation, 9,000 

 feet), on the plateau of northern 

 Arizona, 64 miles south of the Grand 

 Canyon. In the canyon we collected 

 at the terminus of the Grand Canyon 

 Railroad, a branch of the Santa Fe, 

 at El Tovai , the Bright Angel Trail,^ 

 and at many localities reached from 

 Bass Trail (also known as the Mystic 

 Spring Trail), 24 miles west of the 

 railroad, and on both sides of the river. 

 Most of our stations here are shown 

 on the accompanying map (fig. 1). 



We did not visit John Hance's trail, 

 the Red Canyon Trail so-called, which 

 lies east of Grand Canyon, the railroad 

 terminus. One species, Sonorella color- 

 adoensis, was taken here by Dr. C. Hart 

 Merriam in 1889, but otherwise the 

 snail fauna is unknown. The Grand 

 View Trail is also unvisited by col- 

 lectors of shells. The Oreohelices and 

 Pupillidse of the upper and intermediate 

 slopes will doubtless prove interesting 



1 We are indebted to Dr. C. Montague Cooke, of Honolulu, for several species 

 taken by him at the "Indian Gardens," Bright Angel Trail. 




1911.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



175 



and well worth investigation 

 on these two trails, both of 

 which are easily accessible. 



In 1909 (August 19 to Octo- 

 ber 25) Messrs. Ferriss and L. 

 E. Daniels extended the work 

 to the region north of the Grand 

 Canyon, exploring the Powell 

 Plateau and the western side 

 of the Kaibab Plateau, going 

 as far north as Kanab, Utah. 

 A long and hard trip was also 

 made westward to Mt. Trum- 

 bull. The route and stations 

 are partly shown in fig. 2. The 

 northward extension of the 

 route, to Fredonia, Ariz. (Sta- 

 tion 38), and Kanab, Utah, is 

 not shown on the map. From 

 Fredonia the route led south- 

 west to Pipe Spring, Vermillion 

 Cliff (Station 39), to Yellow- 

 stone Spring, southward across 

 Antelope Valley (Station 40), 

 to Mt. Trumbull, where the fol- 

 lowing stations were occupied : 



43, Base of northwestern part 

 of mountain, 6,700 feet. 



44, Spring at northwestern 

 part of mountain, 7,000 feet. 



45, Northwestern part of 

 mountain, 6,700 feet. 



46, Hurricane Fault, 8 miles 

 from Mt. Trumbull, 6,000 feet. 



Station 41 is close to the 

 figure 6, on the Kaibab Sheet 



Fig. 2. — Part of route and collecting 

 stations, expedition of 1909, north 

 of the Grand Canyon. 1000 ft. 

 contours traced from U. S. Geol. 

 Surv. topographic map, Kaibab 

 sheet, edition of March, 1886, re- 

 printed January, 1900. 




176 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



Powell Survey, long. 113°, lat. 36° 27', on a limestone ridge between 

 Finley's reservoir and Mt. Trumbull. Station 42, ant-hills on same 

 road westward. 



North of the northern rim of the Grand Canyon only one species 

 of large size was found, — Oreohelix strigosa depressa (Ckll.); but this 

 occurs in a multitude of colonies and in great variety of size and color. 

 So far as w^e know, this form does not occur in Arizona south of the 

 Colorado River in the Grand Canyon. The small shells are for the 

 most part generally distributed on both sides of and in the Grand 

 Canyon. Special to the Grand Canyon, so far as we know, are the 

 following forms: 



Sonorella coloradoensis (Stearns). 



Oreohelix yavapai, subspecies extremitatis, angelica and profundorum 

 P. and F. 



Pupilla syngenes avus P. and F. 



Only the first of these is generally distributed, being found on 

 both sides of the river, and for at least 30 miles along its course; 

 also on the plateau south of the canyon at Bass Station. 



The work of collecting in the Grand Canyon is severe. The trails, 

 except the Bright Angel or tourists' trail, are narrow and very steep. 

 You will dig snails on taluses ending in cliffs dropping hundreds of 

 feet; no sound comes back from the rocks your work dislodges. Also, 

 the sandstone and metamorphic rock is hard on the hands. Oreohelix, in 

 restricted localities, is sometimes very abundant, but Sonorella is 

 'always rare, and living ones can be obtained only by hard work. 

 Satisfactory work along the south side can de done from the camps or 

 hotels at the several trails. For work in the lower levels and on the 

 north side of the river a camp outfit and pack animals are required. 

 These may be obtained at the Bright Angel, Bass, Grand View or 

 Hance Trails. 



The most productive horizons in the Grand Canyon are the Kaibab 

 Limestone, which forms the slope immediately below the rim, and 

 the talus at the foot of the Cross-bed or Coconino Sandstone, in shel- 

 tered recesses where a talus from the overlying limestone terrain has 

 accumulated. The deeper levels are comparatively unproductive, 

 though Sonorella penetrates in suitable places nearly to the river. 



The molluscan fauna of the Grand Canyon, with the sole exception 

 of Sonorella, consists of species inhabiting northern Arizona on one or 

 both sides of the canyon or of forms evidently derived from such species- 

 It must, therefore, so far as moUusks are concerned, be considered a 

 part of the Transition zone. Sonorella is the sole Upper Austral genus. 

 It inhabits both sides of the river, up to and even upon the rim. 




1911.] NA.TUEAL> SCIiENCES' OF PHILADELPHrA. 177 



The canyon forms a barrier to the distribution of Oreohelix, the- 

 widely spread Arizonian species 0. yavapai not extending north of it^ 

 though very abundant in several sujpspecies on the southern side^ 

 while 0. strigosa depressa, very abundant north of the canyon, doe* 

 not to our knowledge occur in the canyon or in Arizona south of it. 

 Some of the smaller species may prove to be similarly restricted, but 

 more copious data are required to- prove that this is the case. Thp- 

 minute species, here as elsewhere, are widely distributed, probably 

 owing to the facility with which they may be carried by cyclonic- 

 storms. 



In a former paper of this^ series^ we discussed briefly the relation 

 of desert snails to their environments, concluding that the direct 

 influence of desert climate had been overestimated basing this 

 opinion upon the fact that these animals are quiescent except during, 

 the brief periods of damp or rainy weather; and accounting for the 

 opaque and chalky texture of exposed snails as a protection against 

 sunlight, probably brought about by selection. A recent letter frortt-. 

 Dr. Wm. H. Dall, giving his somewhat diverse views upon the same 

 topic, is here printed,, by permission, so that those interested in these 

 questions from the standpoint of molluscan study may have bothi 

 views before them.^ 



' Mollusca of the Southwestern States, IV: The Chiricahua Mountains,. 

 Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1910, pp. 47-50. 



^ "In regard to direct action of sunHght and other factors of climate on desert 

 snails (among which I reckon only those really exposed to it, and not those like 

 Ashmunella, which by descending into the rock piles reach a moderately 

 humid climate), .my reasoning would be something like this : We know irritation 

 of the surface in snails causes exudation of mucous matter (mixed with lime ia 

 the case of shell bearers), which tends to thicken and incidentally to contract 

 or corrugate new growth, this irritation may be alkali in fresh waters, sand or 

 infusoria in pearl oysters, alkali dust on arid windy volcanic islands, like the 

 Galapagos or St. Helena, and scorching sunlight in desert places. Now the 

 first result would be to thicken the shell and exclude the irritant, otherwise* 

 the animal wiU die. Assuming that before reaching the point of absolute exhaus- 

 tion the amount of mucus has a limit, this means a retardation of growth in the 

 spiral direction, and if (assuming that the color glands have also a limited amount 

 of color to give the' general secretion) it would be, in the case cited, abnormallv 

 diluted ; with the result that the shell would tend to be whiter than the normal^ 

 not as a protection,,hut because of the dilution. This explains the white Bulimini^ 

 Clausilias and Pupas,.so conspicuous on hot rocks in South Europe. Then comes 

 in Natural Selection by killing off those which did not or could not sufficiently- 

 thicken themselves to ward off the light, and you have by the most simple- 

 direct action, without any heredity being called into play (unless through 

 some transmission of acquired characters, which I regard in this case as very- 

 doubtful) all the characteristics of desert snails over the whole world developed 

 in the individual by direct action. 



"In the Galapagos snails the young nepionic whorls are normal, and I believe 

 would continue so except for the direct action of the environment. This affects 

 those on the ground, grass and low shrubs. Those living on the higher trees escape- 

 (by my hj'pothesis) tiie dust and continue or remain normal in their growth.'.' 

 12 




178 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



Ijist of Species. 



HELIOID^. 

 Sonorella coloradoensis (Stearns). PI. XII, figs. 26-30. 



Helix (Arionfa) coloradoensis Steams, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus.. vol. XIII, 



p. 226, pi. 15, figs. 6, 8, 12, 1890. 

 Sonorella coloradoensis Stearns, Pilsbrv, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1900, 



p. 560. 1901. Bartsch, Smithsonian Misc. Coll., vol. XLVII, p. 189, pi. 



32, fig. 3 (sheU of type), 1904. 



The type specimen of this species measures: alt. 10, diam. 16.4 mm., 

 umbilicus about 1.8 mm. The locality given by Stearns and repeated 

 by Bartsch,^ Grand Canyon of the Colorado opposite the Kaibab 

 Plateau, alt. 3,500 feet, is somewhat indefinite, on account of the 

 considerable extent of the Kaibab Plateau, Dr. C. Hart Merriam, 

 to whom we applied for further details, writes: "I collected the type 

 of Helix coloradoensis Stearns in September, 1889, in the Grand Canyon 

 below the tank then known as Canyon Spring, not far from where 

 John Hance afterward bviilt what is known as the Hance Trail. At 

 that time neither the Bright Angel nor Bass's Trail had been heard of." 



This locality is, properly speaking, opposite what is now known as 

 the Walhalla Plateau, not the Kaibab Plateau.^ As the river flows, 

 it is about 13 miles east of the Bright Angel Trail, and 30 miles east 

 of Bass's Trail. Owing to the sinuosity of the sides of the canyon, 

 the actual distance along any level above the river gorge and below 

 the rim would be at least three or four times as great. 



The specimens from the Bright Angel and Bass's Trails and from 

 the north side differ from the type by having the umbilicus slightly 

 larger. 



The soft anatomy of the type was not described. One of us has 

 dissected specimens from both sides of the river at Bass's Trail. The 

 'genitalia of a shell from "Spectacle Cove" (Station A) figured (fig. 

 ■3A) show the species to be a true Sonorella, related about as nearly 

 to the forms found in the region immediately south of Tucson, as to 

 :any southern species. The penis (p.) is swollen distally, narrow in its 

 basal half, where it is enveloped in a rather long muscular sheath. 

 It contains a tapering papilla (p.p.), not quite half as long as the penis. 

 The epiphallus (epi.) is about equal to the penis in length, slightly 

 larger than the vas deferens. There is no flagellum. The penis 



* The localities for S. coloradoensis in Inyo and San Diego Counties, California, 

 •which Dr. Bartsch credits to Pilsbry and Johnson, were taken by them from a 

 paper by Dr. Steams, Nautilus, VIII, p. 29. This paper was not noticed by Dr. 

 Bartsch, who has shown that the shells in question are not iS. coloradoensis. 



* See U. S. Geol. Survey Topographic Map, Vishnu Quadrangle. 



i 




1911.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



179 



retractor muscle inserts on the epiphallus. The vagina is rather short 

 and slender. Atrium longer than usual in Sonorella. Length of the 

 penis, 4.5 mm.; penis-papilla, 2 mm.; vagina, 3 mm.; spermatheca 

 and duct, 21.5 mm. 



Fig. 3. — Genitalia of Sonorella coloradoensis. A, Spectacle Cove. B, bandl&^s 

 form from Wliite Creek, Station G. 



A specimen of the bandless form from White Creek, a branch of 

 Shinumo Creek, shows only slight differences in the genitalia from the 

 "Spectacle Cove" form. The atrium is shorter; penis-papilla more 

 cylindric and blunter. Length of penis, 5 mm.; epiphallus, 4.7 mm.; 

 penis-papilla, 2 mm. ; vagina, 3.8 mm. 



While S. coloradoensis seems to be generally distributed in the 

 Grand Canyon, the colonies, except near the rim, are isolated and 

 mostly small. Except during wet weather, the snails adhere to 

 eruptive or metamorphic rocks, making white circles thereon like 

 other Sonorellas. Specimens were taken by us at the following places : 



(South side of the Colorado River.) 



(1) Bass's Station, on the Grand Canyon R. R., about four miles 

 south of the Grand Canyon. The shells vary from alt. 10.5, diam. 16 

 mm., to alt. 9.8, diam. 15 mm. 



(2) Upper talus along the Bright Angel Trail from 100 to 400 feet 

 below the rim. The specimens are like those from Spectacle Cove, 

 noticed below. 




180 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



(3) Station C: Upper talus-slope in the bay about ^ mile west of 

 Bass Camp, a few hundred feet below the rim. The shells here are 

 small, alt. 8, diam. 13, width of umbilicus 2 mm. None found alive. 

 In some examples the shoulder-band is extremely faint, but in most 

 of them it is distinct. 



(4) Station A: "Spectacle Cove," an embayment at the foot of 

 the cross-bed or Coconino sandstone, in a talus resting upon the Aubrey 

 red sandstone, with Oreohelix yavapai profundorum. 



Specimens measure : 



Alt. 10, diam. 16.0, umbilicus 2.1 mm. 



" 9, " 14.8, " 2.0 " 

 All have a band at the shoulder. Very few living adults were 

 taken, but, unlike the Oreohelices, the shells are entirely normal. 



(5) Seep Spring, 2 miles west of Bass Trail, at base of the cross-bed 

 sandstone. Shells like the preceding lot from the same level. 



(6) Station B: Head of Starvation Tank Wash, around the point 

 to the right from Bass Trail, at about 5,800 feet elevation (PI. XII, 

 figs. 29, 30). 



(7) Station D : Bass Trail, on the Red Wall, 5,000 feet. 

 Alt. 10.1, diam. 16, umbilicus 2.1 mm. 



" 9.5, " 16, " 2.1 '' 

 " 9.1, " 15, " 2.1 " 

 The shoulder-band is wanting in about half of the shells taken. 



(8) Station E: Foot of Red Wall, on Bass Trail, elevation about 

 3,850 feet. Like the preceding, diam. 15 to 16.3 mm. A few "bones" 

 were taken still lower, at about 3,000 feet, in a talus of the Red Wall 

 limestone. 



Alt. 8.9, diam. 15.0, umbilicus 2.0 mm. 

 Fig. 29. " 9.0, " 14.3, " 2.0 " ; whorls 4^. 

 " 8.5, " 13.6, " 1.9 " 

 " 8.2, " 13.5 mm. 

 The corneous, brown shell is more or less streaked with white and 

 invariably has a narrow band at the shoulder. 



(North Side of the Colorado River.) 



(9) Station F: Shinumo Creek, near camp, elevation about 2,500 

 feet. 



Alt. 10.8, diam. 16.9, umbilicus 2.1 mm.; whorls 4^. 



" 10.8, " 16.5, " 2.1 " 



" 9.3, " 15.1, " 2.0 " 

 Similar shells occurred at Station 3, Shinumo Box, 2,750 feet, 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 181 



the largest, alt. 12, diam. 17.2, umbilicus 2.5 mm. (F. and D. 1909). 

 Some of these shells are the largest taken up to this time, exceeding 

 the types. The shoulder-band is faint or wanting on some shells. 



(10) Station G: White Creek, about 1 rnile above its confluence 

 with Shinumo Creek (Pi. XII, figs. 26-28). Seven per cent, of the 

 shells taken show a chestnut band. In the rest there is an ill-defined 

 whitish band in its place. Bandless shells are rare in all other localities. 

 The aperture is also more ample in this lot, somewhat trumpet-shaped, 

 the lip is rather more thickened and rusty, and the parietal callus is 

 generally thick at the edge. 



Alt. 10, diam. 17.0, umbilicus 2.6 mm.; aperture 8.8 x 10.0 mm. 

 " 10, '' 16.2, " 2.1 " " 8.2 X 9.5 " 



" 9, " 15.2, " 2.25 '' " 8.0 X 8.8 " 



The genitalia of a specimen, of this lot are figured, fig. SB. 



(11) Muav Box, Station 9, elevation 4,000 feet (F. and D., 1909). 

 Diam. 15-16 mm. All taken have the shoulder-band. 



(12) Station H: Mojave Amphitheatre below the red-wall sand- 

 stone (west side of Muav Canyon, near Button's Point). The shells 

 are all banded, measure 14 to 16 mm. diameter, and do not seem to 

 differ from those taken on the Shinumo at a much lower elevation. 

 At this point the authors made a dry camp in 1906, being unaware that 

 there was water a few miles beyond. In 1909 Ferriss and Daniels 

 took a fine lot of unusually large and dark colored Sonorellas at Station 

 107, about two miles farther up Muav Canyon, but they were lost 

 before reaching home. 



(13) Station 104, 6,700 feet, and Station 9, 7,500 feet, east side of 

 Powell Plateavi (west of Muav Wash). Small, 13.5 to 14 mm. diam.; 

 banded; aperture dilated, as in the shells described under (10). This 

 colony and those following were taken bj^ Ferriss and Daniels, 1909. 



(14) Station 5, east of Muav Canyon, near the Kaibab Saddle, 

 6,717 feet. Small shells, diam. about 13.5 to 15 mm., with the mouth 

 less dilated than in the preceding lot, nearly normal. All are banded. 



(15) Station 25, west side of Powell Plateau, 6,700 feet. The 

 shells are small, diam. about 14 mm., with thickened lip and somewhat 

 dUated mouth, as in Nos. (13) and (19). 



(16) At Station 23, Horse Tank Canyon, on the west side of Powell 

 Plateau, 7,000 feet, the shells are like those from No. (12). Some 

 bandless individuals were also taken. 



(17) Station 101, north end of Powell Plateau, 6,700 feet. Only 

 dead and bleached shells, normal in shape. 



(18) Station 100, third amphitheatre north of the Kaibab Saddle, 




182 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[March, 



6,700 feet. Shells 14 to 15 mm. diameter, normal in shape and color, 

 similar to lot No. (10). This is farthest north for the species. 



Oreoheliz yavapai profundorum n. subsp. PL XII, figs. 1-14. 



The shell is opaque-white with some brownish, corneous streaks and 

 often two fleshy, brown bands, the inner whorls more or less flesh- 

 tinted; solid; with sculpture of rather wide, irregular, subobsolete 

 growth-wrinkles, but no spiral strice. Whorls 4^ to 5, the last angular 

 or subangular in front, descending moderately or deeply to the apeiture, 

 often becoming shortly free. Aperture very oblique or subhorizontal, 

 the peristome slightly thickened and brownish, continuous and free 

 or in contact with the preceding whorl for a short distance. 



Fig. 



Adult shells measure from 13 to 17 J mm. diameter. 

 The genitalia are figured (fig. 4). The lower half of the penis is 



much swollen, the upper half slender and 

 cylindric, the retractor muscle inserted 

 at its apex. The short epiphallus is 

 rather stout. Vagina short and very 

 large. The uterus in the individual 

 figured contained four embryos ; the shells 

 4.7 mm. in diameter, with 2f whorls and 

 acutely carinate periphery. The podo- 

 cyst is larger on the upper embryos, but 

 present in all. 



Length of penis, 6.7 mm.; epiphallus, 

 3 mm. ; vagina, 4 mm. ; spermatheca and 

 duct, 17 mm. 



Out of 100 shells from the type locality, 

 taken at random, 56 per cent, resemble 

 figs. 1-3, 44 per cent, being like figs. 4, 5. 

 The race is therefore markedly senile. 

 Grand Canyon, in "Spectacle Cove," 

 Station A, the head of a recess in the cross-bed sandstone south of 

 where the Mystic Spring or Bass Trail zigzags down, in a talus resting 

 on the red sandstone forming the Le Conte Plateau. Elevation about 



Fig. 4. — Oreohelix yavapai pro 

 fundorum. 




1911.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



183 



5,700 feet. Cotypes, No. 103,234 A. N. S. P., collected by Ferriss 

 and Pilsbry, October, 1906. 



The embryonic shell, of 2^ whorls, shows fine subregular ripples 

 along the lines of growth, and in places some fine, very faint spiral 

 striae may be traced ; on the base these spirals are more distinct. They 

 continue there during the first part of the neanic stage, but disappear 

 after a diameter of 8 or 9 mm. has been attained. The main spirals 

 are widely spaced, as in 0. yavapai, but at all stages of growth they 

 are very weak. The embryonic shell is light brown. Some maculae 

 and streaks of opaque cream-white appear after the third whorl. In 

 the adult stage the surface becomes dull white and somewhat chalky 

 from loss of the very thin cuticle, which is present in the embryonic 

 and early neanic stages. 



0. y. profundorum and the allied races, extremitatis and angelica, 

 differ from 0. yavapai by the very weak spiral striation of the embry- 





Fig. 5. — Spectacle Cove (Station A), from opposite side below Bass Trail. Type 

 locality of Oreohelix yavapai profundorum on the mound at left end of talus slope. 



onic shell. 0. profundorum resembles 0. yavapai, 0. y. neomexicami 

 and 0. borbata in having a very short penis, its length about half the 

 diameter of the shell or less. In the strigosa group, so far as known, 

 the penis is long, two-thirds the diameter of the shell or more, in 

 alcoholic examples. 0. yavapai, neomexicana and profundorum are 

 alike in genitalia, but 0. borbata differs by having the retractor muscle 

 inserted on the epiphallus, whilst in the others it is inserted at the 

 apex of the penis. 



The type locality of 0. y. profundorum is in an embayment of the 

 cross-bed sandstone, where a talus at its foot rests upon the red sand- 




184 TROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



stone. Living specimens were taken only on the last mound of the 

 talus at th3 head of the wash, shown on the left in fig. 5. This mound 

 is about 30 or 40 feet high, about 100 feet long, and has a great rock 

 in the middle. Dead shells were scattered over the talus for about 

 200 yards westward, nearly as far as the large rocks shown in the 

 edge of the pinons. Except where pinons are shown, the slope is 

 covered with shrubs. The Oreohelices live among moss and grass, 

 around and under stones in great profusion. With them live Cochli- 

 copa, Pupilla, etc., and Sonorella coloradoensis, the latter found over 

 the whole talus shown in fig. 5, but everj^^here very scarce. Numerous 

 other taluses at and below the same level were searched, but no other 

 colony of Oreohelix was found. All other colonies of Oreohelix seen 

 are on the upper slopes only a short distance below the rim of the 

 canyon. 



In the absence of any source on the lower levels, 0. y. profundorum 

 must have been derived from 0.. y. extremitatis, which inhabits the 

 slope above the cross-bed sandstone, whence individuals have fallen 

 into the abyss. The considerable divergence of the race on the 

 lower level, and the fact that only one colony was found at that level, 

 seem to indicate that most snails which are carried or fall over the 

 cliff do not survive the terrific drop of several hundred feet. 



In the series of several thousand shells taken there was one sinistral 

 example. 



That the colony of 0. y. profundorum is decadent seems to be indi- 

 cated by the fact that dead shells were found over an area many times 

 greater than that now inhabited by living snails. The markedly 

 senile character of the shells also foretells approaching extinction. 

 Yet the local conditions appear altogether favorable and living indi- 

 viduals are very abundant in a limited area. 



Oreohelix yavapai extremitatis n. «ubsp. PI. XII, figs. 15-21. 



At Station 2, near Bass's Trail, about 200 feet below the rim of the 

 Grand Canyon, the Oreohelices (pi. XII, figs. 18-21) are more depressed 

 than 0. y. profundorum, less solid and less calcareous, invariably two- 

 banded. The surface is more or less suffused with light brown, espe- 

 cially on the spire, and the very thin pellucid cuticle is retained, so 

 that the shell has a slight luster. The embryonic whorls are like 

 ■profundorum; the first third or half of the last whorl is acutely carinate 

 in front, and the latter part descends very little (as in fig. 18, 67 per cent, 

 of the shells examined) or somewhat deeply (fig. 19, 33 per cent.). 

 Widely spaced granose spirals (such as are jcharacteristic of 0. yavapai) 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 185 



are visible on the base in front of the aperture in most of the shells. 

 The aperture is contracted less than in 0. y. profundorum and the 

 peristome is not thickened. The largest examples measure, alt. 8.2, 

 diam. 16 mm., the smallest alt. 8.3, diam. 14 mm. About 60 adults 

 •examined. 



Fig. 18. Alt. 8.0, diam. 15.8 mm. ; width of umbilicus 4.7 mm. 

 " 19. " 7.8, " 14.5 " " " 4.0 " 



" 19. " 8.7, " 14.2 " " " 4.0 " 



'' 20. " 8.5,' " 16.0 " " " 4.3 " 



" 21. " 8.0, '; 15.5 " " " 4.3 " 



Cotypes are No. 103,236 A. N. S. P., collected by Ferriss and Pils- 

 bry, 1906. 



Similar shells occur on the upper slope at the same level, in a bay 

 of the rim, about a half-mile west of Bass's Camp, on the southern 

 rim of the canyon (pi. XII, figs. 15, 16, 17). 



Fig. 15. Alt. 9.2, diam. 15.5 mm.; umbilicus 4.0 mm. wide. 

 " 16. " 8.1, " 15.1 " " 4.1 " 



" 17. '' 9.0, " 16.9 " " 4.9 " 



Oreohelix yavapai angelica. PI. XII, figs. 22-25. 



On the Bright Angel Trail, at Grand Canyon, from 100 to 400 feet 

 below the rim, which has here an elevation of 6,866 feet, the shells 

 resemble 0. y. extremitatis in contour, except that the last whorl is 

 somewhat more inflated. The color is light brown, usually with a 

 brown band below the periphery, sometimes with another above, but 

 this is often wanting. It is thinner and larger than extremitatis, and 

 spaced spirals are more distinct, being well-developed on both the 

 base and upper surface. The embryonic whorls have faint spiral 

 lines. The first part of the neanic stage (up to at least 11 mm. diam., 

 with nearly 4 whorls in some individuals) bears spiral rows of cuticular 

 scales readily visible to the naked eye. There are about 8 spirals 

 above, 10 below the periphery on the last whorl. The last whorl is 

 but slightly deflexed in most examples, rarely (8 per cent.) more or 

 less deeply so, approaching fig. 25, which is an extreme individual. 



Fig. 22. Alt. 9.0, diam. 17.0 mm. ; width of umbilicus 4.5 mm. 

 " 23. " 9.2, " 17.0 " " " 4.9 " 



" 24. " 9.2, '' 17.9 " " " 4.8 " 



'' 25. " 10.2, " 16.0 " " '' 3.8 " 



Individuals with deeply descending last whorl occurred chiefly at 

 the lower level. 




186 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March. 



Alt. 9.5, diam. 18.3 mm. 

 " 10.2, " 17.0 " 

 " 8.0, " 16.0 " 

 " 9.8, " 16.0 " 



This race occupies the same zone as 0. y. extremitatis ^ in the Kaibab- 

 limestone. The stations are about 20 miles apart, but including the 

 windings of the canyon, as the snail travels, the distance would be 

 far greater. The embryonic stage is very much alike in 0. y. profun- 

 dorum, extremitatis and angelica, but the neanic and adult stages 

 differ. 



Cotypes No. 103,239 A. N. S. P., collected by Pilsbry and Ferriss, 

 1906. 



Oreohelix strigosa depressa (Ckll.). Pis. XIII, XIV. 



[Patula strigosa] var. Cooperi Binney, Manual Amer. L. Shells, p. 166, fig. 



153 (teste Ckll.). 

 Patula strigosa cooperi var. depressa Ckll., Nautilus, III, p. 102, January, 



1890, canvon near Durango, Colo. 

 Oreohelix strigosa Old., Pilsbry, Proc. A. N. S. Phila., 1905, p. 272, pi. XXV, 



figs. 45-47 (shell) ; pi. XI, figs. 14, 15 (embryonic shell) ; pi. XIX, fig. 3 



(genitalia); pi. XXII, figs. 1-3 (teeth); pi. XXIII, fig. 25 (jaw). 



New Mexican examples of 0. s. depressa have been fully described 

 and figured in a former paper of this series. In the country north of 

 the Grand Canyon it is an abundant snail, varying widely in size, 

 form, color, and to a less degree in sculpture not only in different 

 colonies, but frequently among individuals of one colony. 



In some districts, as along the western escarpment of Powell Plateau, 

 there is a marked tendency to lose the dark bands. In some other 

 places beautiful albino shells occur in colonies composed chiefly of 

 well-colored shells. There is a tendency in many places to produce 

 more compactly coiled shells than typical depressa, the spire being 

 higher and the total diameter and the umbilicus smaller in some of the 

 shells. This culminates in a form of shell which is not distinguishable 

 from 0. cooperi, found in a few stations. 



In some arid situations, especially the head of Quaking Asp Canyon, 

 the shells are conspicuously dwarfed, their development arrested. 

 No colonies are markedly gerontic, though in a few there is a tendency 

 towards senile characteristics in occasional individuals. 



The spiral sculpture is generally distinctly developed, and some- 

 times some larger, widely spaced spirals can be seen on the base of the 

 shell. 



Specimens are illustrated on Plates XIII and XIV. Some 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 18T 



comment on the several lots follows, beginning at the northern 

 stations. ^ 



(1) Jacob's Canyon (PI. XIII, figs. 1-5), Oreohelices were taken 

 at Stations 68, 69, 70, 71. The typical form and coloring (fig. 1). 

 prevail, but there is also one color-form not elsewhere encountered, 

 in which the bands are purple-brown and very wide, the upper one 

 spreading to the suture or leaving a white belt below the latter (figs. 

 2-4). There are also some pearl-white and dirty white shells (fig. 5). 

 The same color-forms occurred at Station 67, below the mouth of 



° Only one of us (Ferriss) collected P. S. depressa north of the Grand Canyon, 

 being accompanied there by Mr. L. E. Daniels. His impressions concerning the 

 relations of shell-characters to the en\nronmental factors of elevation, humidity 

 and direction of slope are given below. It must be remembered that the con- 

 ditions in the Kaibab region are less accentuated than in the more arid moun- 

 tains of the south. 



"At the time our observations in 'Mollusca of the Southwestern States, 

 No. IV,' were written, en\'ironment seemed the controlling factor in the deter- 

 mination of size of the shell, northern exposures, with an abundance of shade 

 and plant life and a longer growing season, would produce the larger shells. 

 In the region north of the Grand Canyon many apparent exceptions to this 

 rule were noted. Often colonies of the same species but 100 feet apart varied 

 100 per cent, in size. In a gulch facing north in the Powell-Kaibab saddle, in a 

 box canyon with perfect snail conditions, the Oreohelix average 20 mm. in diam- 

 eter. Above the box, in a more open country, they average 24 mm. and were 

 more plentiful. 



"In the canyons and amphitheaters of these plateaux, with the same exposure, 

 moisture, shade, elevation — mineral, plant and all other conditions equal so far 

 as we could understand — each colony stood out by itself in color, size and shape 

 of the spire. These qualities seemed subject to mutation rather than con- 

 trolled by environment. 



"Thus, in Two-Spring Canyon, the shells in a colony on one side of a rock 

 were 25 per cent, larger than tliose of the colony upon the other side, less than 

 100 feet distant ; and a colony on the west side of the stream, no farther away,, 

 wa^ larger than either. In the center of a colony on Powell Plateau, a ' family ' 

 of larger shells was found. 



"Until we crossed the Kaibab Plateau, the collections of 1909 were at about 

 the same elevation, in the limestone section. In Two-Spring and Quaking Asp 

 Canyons, both heavily wooded, the Oreohelices at the top, among the quaking 

 asp, were 14 mm. in diameter, gradually increasing in size, as we descended, 

 to 2,5 mm., as would naturally be expected. 



"In Snake Gulch, however, the largest shells were at the top, on slopes facing 

 either north, west or south, the diameters running 25 and 26 mm. at Castle 

 Springs and vicinity. At Big Springs, with abundance of shade and humidity 

 the year around, and a warm southern exposure, the largest measurements were 

 21, and at the lowest colony in the gulcli less than 18 mm. 



"In Wann Springs Canyon, runnmg from east to west parallel with Snake 

 Gulch, the smaller colonies were midway in the canyon, those at both the top 

 and bottom of the canyon being unusually large and robust, and it was the same 

 in Jacob's Canyon, another parallel canyon of this group running to the west. 



"We collected Oreohelix at 22 stations, elevation about 6,700 feet, in the saddle 

 region of the Powell and Kaibab Plateaux ; at 19 stations in Two-Spring and 

 Quaking Asp Canvons in the Kaibab Plateau, at elevations between 6,500 and 

 8,250 ; at 20 stations in Snake Gulch, Kaibab Plateau, from 5,000 to 7,000 feet 

 elevation; at 16 stations in Wann Spring and Jacob's Canyons, Kaibab Plateau,, 

 from 6,000 to 6,750 feet elevation." 




188 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



Jacob's Canyon, in the second gulch north of Warm Spring Canyon. 

 It was not noticed at Station 68. 

 Fig. 1. Alt. 12.8, diam. 23.0, umbilicus 5.9 mm. 



'' 2. " 11.8, " 22.3, " 6.1 '' 



'' 3. " 11.3, " 22.7, '' 6.0 " 



" 4. " 12.5, " 21.8, " 6.0 " 



" 5. " 11.8, '' 24.0, '' 6.1 '' 



(2) At Station 66 (PI. XIII, figs. 6, 7), in the first gulch facing west, 

 north of Warm Spring Canyon, the shells are smaller and usually 

 more elevated, the last whorl at the aperture generalh' falling well 

 below the lower band. Color and sculpture are normal. 



Fig. 6. Alt. 12.0, diam. 19, umbificus 5.0 mm. 

 " 7. " 10.5, " 17, ' " 4.6 '' 



(3) In the head of Shinumo Canyon (PI. X-III, figs. 10, 11, 12), 

 Stations 50, 51 , 52, the shells are typical in form, but a majority of them 

 have the bands weak, or one or both may be absent (figs. 10-12, 

 Station 50, 5,500 feet elevation). Farther west, at Station 53, the 

 bands are somewhat stronger. Beyond this, going west, the shells 

 are smaller (Stations 54, 55, 56, 57), the last whorl falls more, and the 

 ends of the lip approach — senile characters, doubtless indicative of 

 unfavorable conditions leading to decadence of the race (PI. XIII, 

 figs. 13, 14, Station 55, at 5,500 feet). 



Fig. 10, diam. 20 mm. Fig. 11, diam. 19 mm. Fig. 12, diam. 

 17.7 mm. (Station 50). 



Fig. 13. Alt. 9.2, diam. 15.7 mm. (Station 55). 

 '' 14. '' 7.8, " 14.5 " umbilicus 4 mm. 

 *' 15. " 9.2, '' 15.7 " 



(4) Moquitch Gulch, Stations 75, 76 (PI. XIII, figs. 16-18). The 

 shells are of medium size, more or less brown, with typical bands. 

 An albino form, white with greenish, translucent bands, appears here. 



Fig. 16. Alt. 11.7, diam. 18, umbilicus 3.9 mm. (Station 76). Fig. 

 17. Diam. 17.3 mm. Fig. 18. Diam. 18.8 mm. (Station 75). 



(5) Continuing southward on Snake Gulch, we encounter snails 

 essentially like those from Stations 49, 50 and 37 in Stations 35, 34, 33. 

 At Station 78, boldly marked two-banded shells and beautiful albinos 

 occur, as already figured from Moquitch Gulch. At Stations 32 and 77 

 most of the shells are large and dark, but a few are small. 



(6) Warm Spring Canyon (PI. XIII, figs. 8, 9). Finely developed 

 shells occur at Stations 59, 60, 61, 62, 64, 65 and 73 or 74, mostly 

 with the normal color-pattern, but sometimes the bands are weak or 

 almost absent, chiefly in shells from Station 61. 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 189 



At Station 60 only fossil examples were taken. 

 Fig. 8. Alt. 9.8, diam. 21.0, umbilicus 6.5 mm. (Station 62). 

 " 9. " 11.0, " 22.7, " 6.3 " ( " 61). 



(7) At Snake Gulch, below the Coconino Smelter, Station 49, the 

 shells resemble those from Station 66, having a low conoidal spire 

 and depressed last whorl which falls decidedly at the aperture. Bands 

 narrow, rather pale. 



(8) At Station 37, Snake Gulch, at the north side of the mouth of 

 Smelter Gulch, elevation 5,750 feet, the shells resemble those from 

 Station 50 (see fig. 11). 



(9) At Castle Springs, Station 79, the shells are large and dark,, 

 two-banded or more or less clouded (PI. figs. 19-21, 6,750 feet elevation). 

 Similar examples are found at Riggs Spring, Station 81. 



Fig. 19. A]t. 11. S, diam. 20.0 mm. (Station 79). 



" 20. '• 13.5, " 23.8 " umbilicus 6.2 mm. (Station 79). 



" 21. " 12.C, " 23.2 " " 5.3 " ( " " ). 



Between the preceding and following stations there is an interval 



of about 13 miles over the watershed in which no Oreohelices were 



foimd. 



(10) Quaking Asp Canyon penetrates the Kaibab Plateau from 

 the west, where it drains into Tapeats Creek. Two-Springs Canyon 

 is a branch of the head of Quaking Asp. From the lower end of 

 Quaking Asp Canyon, Station 98, 6,500 feet elevation, to the head. 

 Station 83, 8,250 feet, there is a gradual diminution in size of the shells, 

 no doubt due to increasing aridity of the higher stations westward. 



At Station 98 the shells are very large, diam. 22 to 26 mm., but 

 typical in form and color (PI. XIII, figs. 24-26). At Station 97 the 

 size averages smaller, and there are some albino shells, white with 

 translucent, greenish bands. At Stations 99, 96, 94, 93, 92, 91, 90, 

 89, 87, 88 there are similar shells, the size diminished a Httle (PI. XIII,, 

 figs. 22, 23, Station 91, 7,000 feet). 



Stations 86, 85, 84 and 83 show shells still further diminished, adults 

 measuring, alt. 9 diam. 14 to alt. 7, diam. 11.5 mm., with 4^ whorls 

 (PI. XIII, figs. 27, 28, Station 84). The color is typical; the periphery 

 angular in front and the last whorl descends only very little to the 

 aperture. These colonies show no senile features. Their develop- 

 ment has been arrested, the small number of whorls and the angular 

 periphery being characters of youth. 



At Two Springs, Station 27, the shells resemble those from Station 

 91. Farther up the canyon. Station 26, the shells became smaller. 




190 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



-adults measuring 12 to 15 mm, diam., as in the head of Quaking Asp 

 Canyon. 



(11) At Station 100, Kaibab-Powell Saddle, 6,700 feet, the shells 

 resemble those figured from Station 98, but are smaller, diam. 17.5 

 i,o 21 mm. 



(12) Off the north end of Powell Plateau, at Station 17 (PI. XIV, 

 figs. 1-4), there is wide color- variation in the colony, the following 

 forms occurring: 



Figs. 1, 3. Typical two-banded form, diam. 18 to 21 mm. 

 Fig. 2. Upper band obsolete, the lower are weak same sizes. 

 Fig. 4. White, with greenish, translucent bands, diam 19 mm. 



(13) In other stations at the northern end of Powell Plateau, 13, 

 14, 15 (but not Station 16), and Station 105, near Oak Springs, the 

 prevalent form (PI. XIV, figs. 6, 7, 8) Station 15, 6,500 feet) is rather 

 less depressed than typical depressa, though the depressed form also 

 occurs (PI. XIV, fig. 5, same station). At Stations 13, 15 and 105 

 ;some examples are not distinguishable from 0. cooperi (PI. XIV, fig. 9, 

 Station 15; fig. 23, Station 105); yet some examples seem to connect 

 with normal depressa. At Station 18, at 6,700 feet, two adult shells 

 •{PI. XIV, figs. 10, 11) are of the cooperi form. 



Fig. 10. Alt. 12.0, diam. 18.7, width of umbilicus 4.5 mm. 

 " 11. " 11.9, " 18.0, " " 4.0 " 



The material from these stations (13, 15, 18) is too scanty to decide 

 with certainty whether the series is divisible into cooperi and depressa 

 •or whether the globose specimens are inextricably connected with 

 the depressa stock of the region. Except at Station 18, the cooperi 

 form occurs with undoubted depressa, as at Station 105, where figs. 

 22 and 23 of PI. XIV occurred together. 



(14). The west side of Powell Plateau, Stations 25, 24, 22, 21, 20, 

 19, and Station 16 at the north end, have a somewhat different race. 

 There are typical two-banded depressa (PI. XIV, figs. 13, Station 16) 

 and also specimens lacking one or both bands (PI. XIV, figs. 14, 15, 

 Station 16, 6,700 feet; fig. 16, Station 19). 



The specimens vary from quite large, diam. 25, to medium size, 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 191 



■diam. about 19 mm. At Station 16, 80 per cent, of the shells are 

 bandless. 



(15) On the east side of the Powell Plateau, Stations 10, 103, 8, 12, 

 the shells are typical two-banded depressa (PI. XIV, figs. 17, 18, 19, 

 Station 103, 6,700 feet) varying to forms with the spire higher (figs. 

 20, 21, same station). Fig. 21, alt. 12.3, diam. 18, umbilicus 4 mm. 



Thysanophora ingersoUi (Bid.). 



Bill Wilhams Mountain ; Two-Spring Gulch, Kaibab Saddle. 



Thysanophora hornii (Gabb). 



Shinumo Creek, on the north side of the Grand Canyon. Farther 

 north than this species has been reported hitherto. 



ENDODONTIDJE. 

 f yramdula (Gonyodiscus) cronkhitei (Newc). 



Bill Williams Mountain. It was not found in the Grand Can3''on, 

 but north of it was taken at Castle Springs and Rigg's Spring, Snake 

 Gulch, Kaibab Plateau; Mt. Trumbull; also Deception Lake and 

 Crocodile Lake near Kanab, Utah, 5,500 feet elevation. 



ZONITID^. 

 Titrina alaskana Dall. 



V. Pfeifferi Newc. not of Desh. 



Living specimens were taken on Bill Williams Mountain. Numerous 

 dead shells w^ere found near a small spring in the Grand Canyon below 

 "the cross-bed sandstone, 2 miles west of Mystic Spring Trail. This 

 spring is called Seep Spring on the topographic map, Shinumo 

 quadrangle. The average size of adults here seems to be about 6 mm. 

 diam., but one shell measures 7.4 mm. We did not find Vitrina 

 elsewhere in the Grand Canyon, but northward it occurred at Warm 

 Spring Canyon and Rigg's Spring, Kaibab Plateau, and at Mt. Trum- 

 bull. 



The living animal observed October 15, at Bill Williams Mountain, 

 is far less voluminous than V. limpida. There is one small shell-lobe, 

 covering the termination of the suture. In progression the tail does 

 not project behind the shell. 



Titrea indentata umbilioatao 'Singl.' Ckll. 



Bill Williams Mountain. Grand Canyon along the Bright Angel 

 Trail from just below the rim to the base of cross-bed sandstone and 

 at the Indian Gardens; Bass Station, Grand Canyon R. R.; Station 

 H, on the north side of the canyon. Also taken on the north side of 




192 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



the Grand Canyon on Powell Plateau; Kaibab-Powell Saddle; Castle 

 Springs, Snake Gulch; Two Springs, Kaibab Plateau. 

 Enoonnlus falvus alaskensis (Pils.)- 



Bill Williams Mountain. Grand Canyon, Bright Angel Trail, from 

 just below rim to base of cross-bed sandstone. Mystic Spring Trail 

 about 200 feet below rim, and Station C, about a half-mile west of 

 Bass's Camp; "Spectacle Cove," Station A. North of the Grand 

 Canyon; Powell Plateau, Station 18; Kaibab Saddle and plateau at 

 Stations 5, 7, 12, 66, 100; Riggs Spring, Snake Gulch; Castle Springs; 

 "Warm Spring Canyon; spring on the northwest side of Mt. Trumbull. 

 Zonitoides milium meridionalis Pils. 

 e Bill Williams Mountain. 

 Zonitoides minuscala (Binn.). 



Bill Williams Mountain. Base of ]\It. Trumbull. 

 Zonitoides arborea (Say). 



Bill Williams Mountain. Snake Gulch, Station 11^. 



LIMAOID^. 

 Agriolimax hemphilli ashmuni P. and V. 



North of the Grand Canyon in Snake Gulch at Big Spring and 

 Station 49, below the Coconino Smelter ; also Station 48. 



SUOCINEID^. 

 Suoeinea avara Say. 



Bass Station, Grand Canyon R. R. ; Grand Canyon on the Mystic 

 Spring Trail along the slope a few hundred feet below the rim, and 

 in the amphitheatre ^ to f mile west of Bass's Camp, on the upper slope ; 

 "Spectacle Cove" and Seep Spring, 2 miles west of trail, below cross-bed 

 sandstone ; red wall sandstone at 5,000 feet. On the north side of the 

 river we found it along Shinumo Creek, in the box of White Creek, and 

 Ferriss and Daniels took it on the Kaibab Saddle, at Oak Springs, 

 Snake Gulch, Station 11^, at Warm Spring Canyon, Station 59, and 

 the Hurricane Fault, Station 46, 6,000 feet, near Mt. Trumbull. 



It lives in a great variety of stations, a large form occurring in humid 

 places, smaller shells in arid situations. 

 Snccinea retnsa Lea. 



The Greens, 6 miles west of Kanab, Utah; Deception Lake, northwest 

 of Kanab. 

 Succinea hawkinsi Baird. 



The Greens, 6 miles west of Kanab, Utah. The specimens seem 

 to be typical of this very rars and distinct species, here first reported 

 from so far south. 




1911.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELJ'HIA. 



193 



Snooinea grosvenori Lea. 



North of the Grand Canyon at Big Spring, Snake Gulch, Station 78 ; 

 Antelope Valley, Station 40, on ant hills ; Finley Reservoir near Mt. 

 Trumbull, and at the northwest base of the same mountain. 



FERUSSAOIDiE. 

 Cochlioopa lubrioa (Mull.)- 



Grand Canyon : Bright Angel Trail, from a short distance below the 

 rim to the foot of the cross-bed sandstone and at the Indian Gardens. 

 Mystic Spring Trail on the Spectacle Cove talus, Station A, and near 

 Seep Spring, about 2 miles west of the trail, both places at the base 

 of the cross-bed sandstone. 



PUPILLID^. 

 Pupoides marginata (Say). 



Finley's reservoir near Mt. Trumbull. 

 Pupoides hordacea (Gabb). 



Spring on the northwestern side of Mt. Trumbull and at Finley's 

 reservoir; Antelope Valley. 



Papilla syngenes (Pilsbry). 



Pupa syngenes Pils., Nautilus, IV, p. 3, May, 1890; V, p. 39, pi. 2, figs. 



1, 2. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1890, p. 296, pi. 5, figs. 1, 2 (Arizona) ; 



1900, p. 606, with form dextroversa P. and V. (San Rafael, N. M.). 

 Pupa syngenes Dall, Nautilus, VIII, p. 35 (Beaver Creek, Montana). 



This sinistral species was based on specimens from Arizona, the 



exact locality unknown, fully described and figured in these Proceedings 



for 1890. Ten years later a dextral form was noted. Specimens of 



P. syngenes are before us from San Rafael and Grants, N. M., and 



Holbrook, Jerome, Purtyman's ranch on Oak Creek, and the Grand 



Canyon, Arizona. Dall has reported it from Beaver Creek, Mont., 



but none are known from Wyoming, Colorado or Utah. 



Fig. 6. — Pupilla syngenes dextroversa. San Rafael, N. M. 



13 




194 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



In Pupilla it is obvious that dextral forms are the more primitive, 

 the sinistral forms derived from them. P. syngenes dextroversa, 

 therefore, perpetuates the original stock of the species, of which 

 P. syngenes is a divergent branch. 



P, s. dextroversa (fig. 6) is subcylindric, a little wider near the upper 

 end. The last whorl is flattened laterally, with a strong rounded 

 crest and a deep constriction behind the lip, which is thin and very 

 narrowly expanded. The parietal lamella is slightly over one-fourth 

 of a whorl long; the columellar lamella small and deeply immersed and 

 the lower palatal nodule well-developed or weak, but invariably present 

 in adult shells. The size varies. 



Length 4, diam. 1.7 mm., whorls 9. 

 3, " 1.6 " " 7i 



P. s. dextroversa differs from P. hlandi by its larger, comparatively 

 narrower and more cylindric shape, and the greater number of whorls. 

 The two forms were doubtless of common ancestry. 



Types of P. s. dextroversa are No. 79,460 A. N. S. P., from San Rafael, 

 N. M., collected by E. H. Ashmun. Also taken at Holbrook, Ariz. 

 (Ashmun), at Grants, N. M. (Joshua Baily, Jr., and Albert Baily), and 

 in the Grand Canyon of the Colorado, see below. 



The specimens from San Rafael and Holbrook are mirror images 

 of the sinistral P. syngenes found with them. At Grants very few 

 were found, no sinistral ones with them. 



It appears, therefore, that some colonies of the older dextral form 

 occur unmixed with sinistral, and sometimes the sinistral form is 

 found unaccompanied by dextral. 



Our records of P. syngenes in the Grand Canyon follow. 



North of the Grand Canyon Ferriss and Daniels took P. syngenes 

 at Station 25, Powell Plateau; Stations 100, 5 and 7 on the Kaibab- 

 Powell saddle ; and at Station 66, Kaibab Plateau. It was associated 

 with form dextroversa at Stations 5 and 7, near the "Stone House." 



Grand Canyon at the Bright Angel Trail, about 100 feet below the 

 rim. P. syngenes and P. s. dextroversa, 19 of the former, 12 of the 

 latter, normal in shape, most adults having a palatal tubercle. P. 

 syngenes was also taken near the base of the cross-bed sandstone, one 

 specimen. 



Mystic Spring or Bass Trail. At Spectacle Cove (Station A), on 

 the Oreohelix talus, below the cross-bed sandstone, 103 examples 

 of P. syngenes from half- grown to adult were taken, all of them sinis- 

 tral. Adults vary from 3 mm. long with 7 whorls to 3.7 mm. with 8 

 whorls. Most of them are triplicate, the columellar lamella and lower 




1911.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



195 



palatal fold distinct. The larger ones from this place are typical in 

 shape; the smaller are shorter than syngenes from any other locality 

 in our series. 



Fig. 7. — Pupilla syngenes Pils. Spectacle Cove, near Bass Trail. 



3.5 and 3.2 mm. 



Lengths 3.8, 



Along the upper slope of the Bass or Mystic Spring Trail, Station 2, 

 there is an extensive colony of syngenid forms. We found them most 

 abundant in the humus, among low brushwood, about 200 feet below 

 the rim. Two forms occur here together, a dextral form, P. s. dextro- 

 versa, and a sinistral, P. s. avus, described below, in about equal 

 numbers, 272 of the former and 256 of the latter in the lot collected. 



The P. s. dextroversa are typical in shape, but larger than the types ; 

 the crest is wide and rather far from the lip-edge; a lower palatal 

 tooth is developed. Specimens measure: 



Length 4.5, diam. 1.8 mm., whorls 10. 

 3.7, " 1.8 " " 9. 



Fig. 8. — Pupilla syngenes form dextroversa P. and V. Bass TraU, about 200 feet 

 below the rim. Lengths 4.5 and 3.75 mm. 



The last is the smallest adult seen from this place; most examples 

 are over 4 mm. long. Specimens of this lot are figured, fig. 8. 




196 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[March, 



At about the same elevation about i or | mile west of Bass's Camp 

 a similar specimen of dextroversa was taken. 



Papilla syngenes avus n. subsp. Fig. 9. 



Shell sinistral, the last whorl deviating tangentially and ascending ; 

 teeth deeply immersed ; parietal lamella miLch longer than in P. syngenes 

 or dextroversa, about a half-whorl long. 

 Length 5.2, diam. 1.8 mm., whorls 10^. 

 " 4.3, " 1.7 '' " 9i 



" 4.0, " 1.7 " " 9i 



Types No. 94,220 A. N. S. P., from upper slope of the Grand 

 Canyon along the Mystic Spring or Bass Trail, about 200 feet below 

 the rim, Station 2; abundant with P. s. dextroversa. 



Fig. 9. — Pwpilla syngenes avus, Cotypes. Lengths 5.2, 4, 4 and 4.2 mm. 



The special characters of this race, being those of senility, are 

 unequally developed in different individuals. The figures give a fair 

 idea of the variations. Finding these shells associated with about 

 an equal number of P. s. dextroversa of about the same size, we at first 

 were disposed to think them all one race in which the shell was indiffer- 

 ently dextral or sinistral; but on 'closer study it appears that the 

 dextral forms never have the last whorl and aperture abnormal nor 

 are the teeth so deeply immersed, or the parietal lamella so long, 

 while almost every sinistral shell collected in this colony is markedly 

 distorted. It seems, therefore, that although the two forms are of 

 common origin and live together, the different direction of the coil 

 probably prevents interbreeding, thus segregating the sinistral stock, 

 which in this colony is now in a late stage of senile degeneration. 



V 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 197 



Pupilla hebes (Anc). 



Pupa hebes Anc, Pils. and Van., Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1900, p. 589, 

 pi. 22, figs. 9, 10. 



Bill Williams Mountain. 

 Pupilla hebes kaibabensis n. subsp. 



The shell is constantly much shorter than the typical form, length 

 2.7 to 2.8, diam 1.5 mm., whorls 5h. Kaibab Saddle, Station 100, 

 types No. 103.283 A. N. S. P., collected by Ferriss and Daniels, 1909. 

 Also Station 105 in the same region. 



Bifidaria quadridentata Sterki. 



Bill Williams Mountain. 

 Bifidaria pellacida hordeacella (Pils.). 



Near the Mystic Spring Trail at Station A, on the Oreohelix talus. 

 Spectacle Cove. 



Bifidaria pilsbryana Sterki. 



Bill Williams Mountain. Grand Canyon at the Bright Angel Trail 

 about 100 feet below the rim; Mystic Spring Trail, Station A. Also 

 north of the Grand Canyon at Stations 7, 12, 100 in the region of the 

 Powell-Kaibab Saddle; Station 66, north of Warm Spring Canyon; 

 and at a spring on the northwestern side of Mt. Trumbull. 



Bifidaria asbmuni Sterki. 



Bright Angel Trail, about 100 feet below rim. North of the Grand 

 Canyon at Stations 7 and 12, Kaibab-Powell Saddle; Station 100, 

 near Oak Springs; and at Mt. Trumbull. These places are all far 

 north of its previously known range. 

 Vertigo conoinnula Ckll. 



Bill Williams Mountain. 

 Vertigo coloradoensis arizonensis Pils. and Van. 



Bill Williams Mountain, 



VALLONIID^. 



Vallonia cyolopborella Anc. 



Bill Williams Mountain. Grand Canyon about 200 feet below the 

 rim and at the Indian Gardens, Bright Angel Trail. North of the 

 Grand Canyon at Stations 1, 12, 106 and Oak Springs on the Kaibab- 

 Powell Saddle; Quaking Asp Canyon; Rigg's Springs, Snake Gulch; 

 Warm Spring Canyon ; spring on the northwest side of Mt. Trumbull. 

 A common shell in Arizona north of the Grand Canyon. 

 Vallonia perspective Sterki. 



Grand Canyon at Seep Spring two miles west of the Mystic Spring 




198 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March. 



Trail, below the cross-bed sandstone, and in "Spectacle Cove," Station 

 A, at about the same level. It was not taken north of the Grand 

 Canyon. 



LYMN^ID^. 

 Lymneea parva Lea. 



Pipe Spring, Ariz. 

 Lymnsea obrussa Say. 



Deception Lake near Kanab, Utah, small, slender specimens. 

 Flanorbis tenuis Phil. 



Reservoir back of Williams. Ariz. 

 Flanorbis deflectus Say. 



Fredonia, Ariz., Station 38, near the Utah boundary. 



PHYSID^. 

 Fhysa virgata Gld. 



Reservoir back of Williams; Pipe Springs, Vermilion Cliffs, Station 

 39. Physa traskii I^ea and Ph. orbignyana Lea are synonymous with 

 virgata. 

 Fhysa hnmerosa Gld. 



Indian Gardens on the Bright Angel Trail in the Grand Canyon 

 (C. M. Cooke). A small form, evidently referable to this species. 



Fhysa gyrina Say. 



The Greens, near Kanab, Utah. Another small Physa of uncertain 

 identity was taken in Deception Lake, Utah. 



SPH^RIID^. 

 Fisidinm sp. undet. 



The Greens, Kanab Creek, near Kanab, Utah. 



Explanation of Plates XII, XIII, XIV. 



Plate XII. — Figs. 1-14. — Oreohelix yavapai profundorum P. and F. Cotypes. 



Spectacle Cove. No. 103,234 Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 

 Figs. 15-17 .—Oreohelix yavapai extremitatis P. and F. Station C, Upper 



talus, west of Bass Camp. No. 103,237. 

 Figs. 18-21. — 0. y. extremitatis P. and F. Cotypes. 100-400 feet below the 



rim along the trail near Bass Camp. No. 103,236. 

 Figs. 22-24. — Oreohelix yavapai angelica P. and F. Cotypes. 100-400 feet 



below the rim. Bright Angel Trail. No. 103,239. 

 Fig. 25. — 0. y. angelica. Same locality. No. 103,241. 

 Figs. 26-28. — Sonorella coloradoensis (Steams). Whitish, bandless form 



from \Miite Creek, 1 mile above its junction with Shinumo Creek, Grand 



Camion, north side. No. 103,255. 

 Figs. 29, 30. — Sonorella coloradoensis (Steams). Head of Starvation Tank 



Wash, Grand Canyon, south side. 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 199 



Plate XIII. — Oreohelix strigosa depressa Ckll. — Figs. 1, 3, 5. — Jacobs Canvon, 



Station 69. No. 103,208 Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 

 F%s. 2, 4.— Jacobs Canyon, Station 70. No. 103,143. 

 Figs. 6, 7. — First gulch opening west above Warm Spring Canyon, Station 



66. No. 103,141. 

 Fig. 8.— Warm Spring Canyon, Station 62. No. 103,138. 

 Fig. 9.— Warm Spring Canyon, Station 61. No. 103,116. 

 Figs. 10-12.— Shinumo Canyon, Station 50. No. 103,148. 

 Figs. 13-15.— Shinumo Canyon, Station 55. No. 103,197. 

 Fig. 16.— Moquitch Gulch, Station 76. No. 103,205. 

 Figs. 17, 18.— Moquitch Gulch, Station 75. No. 103,204. 

 Figs. 19-21.— Castle Sprjag, Snake Gulch, Station 79. No. 103,172. 

 Figs. 22, 23.— Quaking Asp Canyon, Station 91. No. 103,226. 

 Figs. 24-26.— Quaking Asp Canyon, Station 98. No. 103,157. 

 Figs. 27, 28.— Head of Quaking Asp Canyon, Station 84. No. 103,161. 



Plate XIV. — Oreohelix strigosa depressa Ckll. — Figs. 1-4. — North end of Powell 



Plateau, Station 17. No. 103,186. 

 Figs. 5-9.— North end of Powell Plateau, Station 15. No. 103,179. 

 Figs. 10, 11.— North end of Powell Plateau, Station 18. No. 99,158. 

 Figs. 12-15.— West side of Powell Plateau, Station 16. Nos. 94,159 and 



103,188. 

 Fig. 16.— West side of Powell Plateau, Station 19. No. 103,180. 

 Figs. 17-21.— East side of Powell Plateau, Station 103. No. 103,188. 

 Figs. 22, 23.— North end of Powell Plateau, Station 105. No. 103,177. 




200 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



A NEW FLAT FISH FEOM NEW JEESEY. 



BY HENRY W. FOWLER. 



Citharichthys micros sp. nov. 



Head 3f ; depth 2^; D. 67; A. 52; left P. 16; right P. 10; left V. 

 7 ; right V. 5 ; scales 43 in 1. 1. to caudal base ; 1 1 scales above 1. 1. at 

 depressed pectoral tip; 12 scales below 1. 1. at depressed pectoral tip; 

 about same squamation on blind side also ; snout tip to lower eye front 

 about 5^ in head, measured from upper jaw tip; eye 3^; maxillary 

 3^; longest dorsal rays about 2; longest anal rays about 2; least 

 depth caudal peduncle 2f ; caudal length 1^; left pectoral 1^; right 

 pectoral 2^; interorbital about 6 in eye. 



Body strongly compressed, thin, contour elongately ovoid, with 

 greatest depth about opposite depressed pectoral tip. Caudal peduncle 

 well compressed and only a little free. 



Head moderate, greatly compressed, profiles similar or rather 

 obtuse in front. Snout short, blunt. Eyes close together, only 

 separated by narrow trenchant ridge, lower trifle large and but 

 slightly extending before upper, its center about first third in h^d. 

 Mouth small, inclined vertically, slightly curved. Lips fleshy, mod- 

 erate. Maxillary bent a little, extends back trifle beyond front eye edge, 

 though not to that of pupil, distal expansion about 4 in eye. Teeth 

 in jaws uniserial, close-set, minute, slightly larger in front, sharp- 

 pointed, conic, erect. No teeth on roof of mouth or tongue. Latter 

 inconspicuous, fleshy, small, far back, end free. Mandible well 

 protruded, rami well elevated inside mouth. Lower nostrils well 

 separated, posterior over lower eye front and anterior a little before. 

 Upper nostrils on front edge of snout well separated. Interorbital 

 narrowly constricted. Preopercle ridge and edge slightly inclined 

 forward. 



Gill-opening forward about midway in head. Rakers 2+6 firm 

 denticles, longest about ^ of filaments, pointed, conic and apparently 

 smooth. Filaments If in eye. Pseudobranchise a little less than 

 filaments. Branchiostegals 4, membrane forming fold over isthmus. 

 Latter truncate and trenchant in front, both sides constricted. 



Scales rather small, cycloid, disposed in rather even longitudinal 

 series parallel with 1. 1. on blind side, similar on upper side except some 




1911.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 



201 



on the trunk inconspicuously ctenoid. Apparently none of fins 

 scaly basally except caudal, and on that fin scales small. Head scaly, 

 except jaws, snout and maxillary. Scales on cheek in 6 rows. L. 1. 

 complete, a trifle deflected anteriorly and then straight or median 



» 



Citharichthys micros Fowler. 



along upper side, tubes simple and each one extending over entire 

 exposure of scale. 



Dorsal origin or base of first ray directly above front of lower eye, 

 ends of anterior rays free, simple, and fin highest near last third in its 




202 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



length. Anal well separated from ventral, its origin a little behind 

 pectoral base, front rays free distally and simple, and fin highest near 

 last third its length. Caudal elongate, rounded. Pectoral on left 

 simple, upper median rays longest, its origin little below middle in 

 body depth at that point. Right pectoral shorter, lower median rays 

 longest, fin otherwise similar. Left ventral inserted a trifle behind 

 right ventral, though former a little larger. Vent close to anal origin, 

 presented on lower side. 



Color in alcohol pale sandy-gray on upper side, with scattered 

 inconspicuous areas or patches of slightly darker mottlings. Dorsal 

 and anal pale grayish with dusky blotch basally about every five or 

 six rays, intervening rays and membranes mottled with paler dusky. 

 Caudal grayish with indistinct transverse pale dusky lines. Left 

 pectoral similar. Lower side whitish and transparent, darker varie- 

 gations along dorsal, anal and caudal showing through distally. Peri- 

 toneum white. 



Length l|f inches (47 mm.). 



Type, No. 37,841, A. N. S. P. Corson's Inlet, Cape May County, 

 N. J. September 17, 1910. Dr. Richard J. Phillips. 



Also Nos. 37,842 to 37,850, A. N. S. P., paratypes with same data. 

 These show : Head 3^ to 3|; depth 2^ to 2f ; D. 62 to 67; A. 45 to 53; 

 scales 37 to 43 in 1. 1. to caudal base; usually 11 scales above T. 1. at 

 depressed pectoral tip, frequently 10; usually 12 scales below 1. 1. at 

 depressed pectoral tip, frequently 11; snout tip to lower eye front 

 4|- to 5 in head measured from upper jaw tip; lower eye 3 to 3f ; 

 maxillary 3 to 3^; left pectoral 1^ to If; length 1^ to If inches. 



Two examples of Citharichthys arctifrons, kindly loaned by _the 

 United States National Museum through Mr. B. A. Bean, differ at 

 once in their larger scales, their longer maxillary and. more inclined 

 upper profiles, besides such extent of variation as is shown in the 

 following note. Head 4; depth 2^ to 2|; D. 74 or 75; A. 61 or 66; 

 scales in 1. 1. to caudal base 36 to 38 +2? to 4; about 8 scales (dam- 

 aged) above 1. 1. at greatest depth of body; about 8 scales (damaged) 

 below 1. 1. at greatest depth of body; snout 5 in head measured from 

 upper jaw tip; eye 3f ; maxillary 3; pectoral IJ; length 3| to 3f 

 inches. These examples quite agree with Goode and Bean's figure,^ 

 and though in rather poor shape, all the important characters may be 

 made out. They were secured off Martha's Vineyard, Mass., by the 

 schooner Grampus, July 10, 1892. In pointing out the differences 



^Oceanic Ich., 1895, pi. 106, figs. 36Ga-6. 




I" 



1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 203 



between the present species and C. arctifrons, it is only necessary to 

 emphasize those above, though I also find it has much fewer gill- 

 rakers, or about 2+6, while C. arctifrons shows 4+9. It seems, 

 therefore, hardly likely my examples are the young of C. arctifrons, 

 or C. spilopterus, of which I have West Indian material, or C. unicornis. 

 These other species are readily distinguished ; in the case of C. spilop- 

 terus, by its larger maxillary and smaller scales and in that of C. 

 unicornis by the broad interorbital. 



Found associated with C. micros were young Prionotus carolinus, 

 Brevoortia tyrannus, Trachinotus falcatus and Eucinostomus gula, all 

 of which were collected. Dr. Phillips noted on this occasion and the 

 preceding day the greatest variety of species during the year. They 

 were: Mustelus mustelus, Eulamia milberti, Anguilla chrisypa, Ancho- 

 via mitchilli, Fundulus majalis, F. heteroclitus macrolepidotus, Tylo- 

 surus marinus, Syngnathus fuscus, Menidia menidia notata, Mugil 

 cephalus, Pomatomus saltatrix, Centropristis striatus, Cynoscion regalis, 

 Leiostomus xanthurus, Menticirrhus americanv^, M. saxatilis, Scicenops 

 ocellatus, Tautogolahrus adspersus, Tautoga onitis, Spheroides macu- 

 latus, Opsanus tau, Paralichthys dentatus and Pseudopleuronectes 

 americanus. An examination of the stomach contents of C. micros 

 showed remains of small Crustacea. 



I may also note here that Citharichthys spilopterus Giinther has been 

 recorded from New Jersey by Jordan and Goss, a fact I had neglected 

 to mention in my account of the fishes of that State. 



(Mixpog^ small.) 




204 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



NOTES ON CLTTFEOID FISHES. 

 BY HENRY W. FOWLER. 



The clupeoid Isospondyli contained in the collection of the Academy 

 of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, unless stated otherwise, are listed 

 in the present paper. As many of the localities are interesting records 

 of distribution, all are given with the number of specimens examined. 

 Several apparently new species are also described. 



ELOPID^. 



Tarpon atlanticus (Valenciennes). 



Florida 3. I examined 2 adults in the care of Mr. D, McCadden, 

 not the property of the Academy, from Fort Meyer, Fla. 

 Megalops cypriuoides (Broussonet). 



Apia, Samoa 3. 



Elops saurus Linnaeus. 



Nantucket, Mass. 1 ; S. Carolina 1 ; W. Palm Beach, Fla. 1 ; E. coast 

 U. S. 1 ; no data 1 ; Santo Domingo 1 ; Surinam 1 ; Jamaica ? 2 ; 

 Rio Janeiro 1. 

 Elops hawaiensis Regan. 



Honolulu, H. Is. 1. Formerly I confused this with E. saurus. 



ALBULID^. 



Albnla vulpes (Linnaeus). 



Santo Domingo 2; St. Martin's 2; Port Antonio, Jamaica 1. 

 Dixonina nemoptera Fowler. 



(Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1910, p. 651, fig. Santo Domingo.) 



Type No. 1,597, A. N. S. P. 



HIODONTID^; 

 Hiodon alveoides (Rafinesque). 



Beaver R. 1, Youghiogheny R, 2, Pa.; Battle Cr,, upper Mo. R. 2; 

 Creek Country, Ind. Ty. 2; St. Joseph, Mo. 1; Yellowstone R. 1; 

 "N. Am." Bonaparte Coll. 8; L. Minnetonka (also skull of Amiatus 

 calvv^), Minn. 2, 

 Hiodon tergisus Le Sueur. 



L. Erie 1 ; Erie, Pa. 1 ; Venice, O. 1. 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 205 



OHIROOENTRID-ai. 

 Chirocentrus dorab (Forsk&l). 

 Padang, Sumatra 8, of which 1 is now in Stanford University. 



NOTOPTBRIDJE. 



Notopterus ohitala (Hamilton-Buchanan). 



Dried skin without locality. 



DUSSUMIERIID^. 

 Stolephoms delioatulus (Bennett). 



Bacon, Philippine Is. 7. 



Dassumieria elopsoides Bleeker. 



Padang, Sumatra 2, of which 1 is now in Stanford University. 



Jenkinsia stolifera (Jordan and Gilbert). 



Hailer's Rock, Fla. Keys 17; Culebra, Porto Rico 4. 

 Etrumeus mioropus (Schlegel). 

 Honolulu, Hawaiian Is. 6. 



OLUPEIDJE. 

 Clupea harengus Linnaeus. 



Eastport, Maine 1; Newport, R. I. 2; Corson's Inlet, N. J. 1; 

 Sweden 1. 



Clupea pallasii Valenciennes. 



{Clupea mirabilis Girard, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1854, pp. 138, 154. 



San Francisco, Cal. 

 Spratelloidesbryoporus Cope, Proc. Amer. Philos. Soc, 1873, p. 25. Sitka, 



Alaska.) 



Nos. 1,319 and 1,320, A. N. S. P., cotypes of C. mirabilis Girard. 

 No. 1,211, A. N. S. P., type of S. bryoporus Cope, in bad preservation. 



Clupanodou cceraleus (Girard). 



(Meletta coerulea Girard, 1. c. San Francisco, Cal.) 



Nos. 1,252 and 1,240 to 1,243, cotypes of M. coerulea Girard. 

 Clupanodou brunnicMi (Schneider). 



Adriatic Sea 6; Italy 6 (all in Bonaparte Coll.). 



Clupanodou phalerica Risso. 



(Clupea papalina Bonaparte, Cat. Met. Peso. Eur., 1846, p. 271. Adriatic. 

 No description). 



Nos. 1,263 to 1,267, A. N. S. P., cotypes of the nominal C. papalina 



Bonaparte. 



Clupanodou neopiloliardus (Steindachner). 



Melbourne, Australia 5. 




206 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



Clupanodon pseudohispanicus (Poey). 

 Rio Janeiro, Brazil 1. 



FomolobuB chrysocMoris Rafinesque. ' 



Wabash R., Indiana 2; Hayden Expedition 1. 



Fomolobus mediocris (Mitchill). 



Cape Cod, Mass. 1; Newport, R. I. 1; Barnegat Pier 1, Seaside 

 Park 1, Corson's Inlet 1, N. J.; Potomac R. 3. 



Fomolobus pseudoharengus (Wilson). 



Portland, Maine 1 ; Cape Cod 2, Wood's Hole, Mass. 1 ; Newport, 

 R. I. 3; Jersey City 1, May's Landing 20, Cedar Swamp Creek 1, 

 Delaware Bay 1, N. J.; Bristol 15, Holmesburg 5, Pa. 



Fomolobus SBStivalis (Mitchill). 



Wood's Hole, Mass. 1; Jersey City 1, Beesley's Point ? 1, Sea Isle 

 City 5, N. J. 



Alosa sapidissima (Wilson). 



Martha's Vineyard, Mass. 2; Noank, Conn. 1; Duck I. 21, Borden- 

 town 1, Newbold's I. 35, Washington Park 1, N. J.; Dingman's Ferry 

 25, Bristol 7, Holmesburg 9, Falls of Schuylkill 1 , Pa. ; Ft. Delaware, 

 Del. 8; Delaware R. ? 1; Potomac R. 13. 



Alosa fallaz (Lac^pfede). 



Italy 11, in Bonaparte Coll. 



Sardinella granigera Valenciennes. 



Beirut, Syria 1, 



Sardinella atricauda (Gunther). 

 Tahiti 3. 



Sardinella perforata (Cantor). 

 Bacon, Luzon I., Philippines 1. 



Sardinella hypselosoma (Bleeker). 



Padang, Sumatra 4, of which 1 is now in Stanford University. 



Sardinella humeralis (Valenciennes). 



Newport, R. I. 2; Marquesas Keys 27, Hailer's Rock 1, West Palm 

 Beach 2, Fla.; New Providence, Bahama Is. 6; Santo Domingo 7; 

 Boqueron 2, Hucares 2, Porto Rico; Port Antonio, Jamaica 2; St. 

 Martin's 43, Santa Cruz 20, W. I. ; Rio Janeiro, Brazil 1. 



Sardinella sardina (Poey). 



Hailer's Rock, Fla. Keys 2. 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 207 



Sardinella macrophthalma (Ranzani). 



New Providence, Bahama Is. 6; Port Antonio, Jamaica 3; St. 

 Martin's 3, Santa Cruz 3, W. I. 



Sardinella stolifera (Jordan and Gilbert). 

 Mazatlan, Mex. 47. 



GUDUSIA subgen. nov. 

 Type Clupanodon chapra Hamilton-Buchanan. 



Differs from the other subgenera included in Sardinella by its 

 small scales, which are about 80 to 120 in a lateral series. 

 (Gvdusa, the native name.) 



Sardinella chapra (Hamilton-Buchanan). 



Ganges R., India 6. 

 Opisthonema oglinam (Le Sueur). 



Beesley's Point 4, Sea Isle City 3, N. J.; N. America 5 (in Bona- 

 parte Coll.); Santo Domingo 3; Port Antonio, Jamaica 1; Hucares 1, 

 San Juan 1, Porto Rico; Santa Cruz, W. I. 1; Rio Janeiro, Brazil 2. 

 Brevoortia tyrannus (Latrobe). 



Waquoit 3, Nantucket 24, Wood's Hole 3, Mass.; Seaside Park 1, 

 Atlantic City 1, Great Egg Harbor Bay 5, Beesley's Point 2, Corson's 

 Inlet 1, Washington Park 1, N. J.; Ft. Delaware, Del. 6; Chestertown 

 1, Big Bohemia Creek 2, Patapsco R. 3, Potomac R. 1, Md.; Ft. 

 Macon, N. C. 2; S. Carolina 3; N. America 1 (Bonaparte Coll.). 



Brevoortia tyrannus patronus (Goode). 



Mississippi Sound at New Orleans, La. 2; Grand Plains Bayou, 

 Miss. 3. 

 Brevoortia tyrannus aurea (Agassiz). 



One without data, probably from Brazil ? 



Brevoortia tyrannus dorsalis (Valenciennes). 



Gaboon R., W. Africa 2. 



HERINGIA gen. nov. 

 Type Clupea amazonica Steindachner. 



Body strongly compressed, with trenchant serrated abdomen formed 

 by bony scutes. Head small, well compressed. Mouth small. No 

 teeth. Mandible protruding. Maxillary broad. Cheek normal. Gill- 

 rakers slender, numerous. Branchiostegals about 5. Scales large, 

 narrowly imbricated, cycloid, edges entire. No lateral line. Dorsal 

 moderate, inserted behind ventral base, and fin entirely before anal. 

 Anal rays few. Caudal forked. Pectoral low, not reaching ventral. 

 Ventral depressed less than half space to anal. Coloration silvery. 




208 ' PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



Small herrings resembling Pellonida Giinther, but differing in the 

 absence of teeth. Some species of Pellonida are also credited with 

 having the dorsal inserted behind the ventral origin. Possibly Pomo- 

 lobus melanostomus Eigenmann is a member of this genus ? 



(Named for Dr. Constantine J. Bering, who collected fishes in 

 Surinam many years ago, for the Academy.) 



Heringia amazonica (Steiadachner). 



Surinam 14 (Hering). 

 Ilisha narragansetse sp. nov. Fig. 1. 



Head 3^; depth 3; D. iv, 13, i; A. iv, 41, i; P. i, 15; V. i, 5; scales 

 about 44 in lateral series to caudal base (squamation damaged) + 5 

 (according to pockets) ; about 14 scales (squamation injured) between 

 dorsal and anal origins; predorsal scales 20 (according to pockets); 



Fig. 1. — Ilisha narragansetce Fowler. Type. 



head width 2f its length; head depth at occiput 1^; mandible 2^; 

 length of dorsal base 3; least depth of caudal peduncle 3f ; pectoral 

 about If; snout 47- in head measured from upper jaw tip; eye 3; 

 maxillary 1^; interorbital 6^. 



Body greatly compressed, thin, deepest at ventral origin, edges 

 slightly trenchant, abdominal edge trenchant with 25+7 serrse, 

 upper profile slightly convex and lower decidedly more so anteriorly, 

 posteriorly lower straight. Caudal peduncle compressed, length 

 trifle less than its least depth. 



Head compressed, sides not especially flattened, but approximated 

 below, upper profile little inclined, slightly concave, and convex lower 

 greatly inclined. Snout surface convex, broad as long. Eye large, 

 rounded, trifle before center in head. Apparently no adipose eyelid. 

 Maxillary greatly inclined, reaches beyond front pupil edge till about 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 209 



opposite first third in eye, its lower edge finely dentate and greatest 

 expansion about half of eye. Mouth rather small, superior. 

 Scarcely median emargination to upper jaw front. Mandible well 

 protruded, rami well elevated inside mouth. A series of small pre- 

 maxillary teeth, narrow, median largest and others graduated exter- 

 nally. Small similar series on each side of symphysis of mandible, 

 A double series of minute teeth on each palatine longitudinally. 

 Tongue narrow, depressed, surface above roughened medianly, pointed 

 tip free. Nostrils small pores, together, about midway in snout. 

 Interorbital constricted, slightly elevated, depressed. Preorbital 

 width about half of eye, slipping over upper anterior portion of max- 

 illary. Postero-infraorbital about half of eye. Preopercle ridge 

 oblique, and hind edge slightly inclined forward. Opercles and 

 cheeks smooth, striae or lines inconspicuous or obsolete. 



Gill-opening forward about opposite last fifth in snout. Rakers 

 12 + 22, compressed, pointed, 2 in eye. Filaments about f of rakers. 

 Pseudobranchiae 2^ in eye, much larger than filaments. Isthmus 

 slender, swelling but slightly behind. No depression on shoulder- 

 girdle. 



Scales large, cycloid, each with as many as 6 vertical striae, edges entire, 

 disposed in longitudinal series, and of about uniform size. Dorsal 

 and anal depressible within basal scaly sheaths composed of scales 

 small in size. Caudal base covered with small scales. Free axillary 

 scaly pointed pectoral flap f of fin. An axillary ventral scale. 



Dorsal inserted about midway between mandible tip and caudal 

 base, graduated down from first branched ray which is longest (dam- 

 aged), depressed fin 3^ to caudal base. Anal inserted slightly behind 

 dorsal or about midway between front eye edge and caudal base, first 

 few branched rays little longest, others all short and fin low, base 

 straight. Caudal (damaged) forked, lobes apparently pointed and 

 equal. Pectoral falcate, rather broad, reaching far back as ventral 

 tip. Ventral small, inserted much nearer anal than pectoral origin. 

 Vent close before anal. 



Color in alcohol brownish on back and upper surface of head behind, 

 sides and lower regions silvery- white. Fins all pale brownish. Iris 

 brassy. 



Length 5|- inches (caudal damaged). 



Type No. 15,314, A. N. S. P. A single example from Newport, 

 R. I. Samuel Powell. 



Only the above example is known to me, and it would appear un- 

 doubtedly to have been obtained at Newport as a waif of the Gulf 

 14 




210 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



Stream, probably from some tropical region in America ? It seems 

 to be most closely related to Pellona bleekeriana Poey/ but according 

 to the incomplete account of that species I am unable to consider them 

 identical. Still further, I am obliged to allow them as separable, for 

 Poey's account in some respects seems to strikingly disagree. Poey's 

 fish was 100 mm. long and had the eye 3^ in its head, while in my 

 specimen, which is larger and consequently would be expected to 

 have an equally small eye at least, it is 3 in its head. The greatest 

 body depth in the total length of my example could not possibly be 

 over 3f (even when its damaged caudal is allowed), while Poey alleges 

 5f . According to Poey, the thickest part of the body is f its greatest 

 depth, while my example shows this clearly less than ^. Poey says 

 the maxillary reaches opposite the hind pupil edge, while in my 

 example it does not even reach opposite the middle of the eye. Poey 

 gives the teeth as somewhat long and curved, with a canine above 

 and 2 below each side. My example shows no canines whatever. 

 Poey says no teeth on the tongue, though my example shows it as 

 asperous medianly. Poey gives the serratures as 25, while my example 

 shows 32. Poey's example is said to have very caducous scales, while 

 in mine they are largely adherent. Poey describes his fish as white, 

 with a little pronounced silvery streak, which latter is not at all 

 evident in my example. Pristigaster flavipinnis Valenciennes^ differs 

 in having much smaller scales, about 65. Pellona castelnceana Valen- 

 ciennes,^ which has been considered a synonym of the last, is too 

 imperfectly described for positive identification. The occurrence of 

 this fish, as far north as Rhode Island, is the most northern point at 

 which any species of Ilisha has yet been found. 



(Named for the country of the Narraganset Indians, now largely 

 Rhode Island, where the type was secured.) 



Ilisha hoeveni (Bleeker). 



Padang, Sumatra 3, of which 1 now in Stanford University. 



Ilisha brachysoma (Bleeker). 



Padang, Sumatra 1. 

 Opisthopterus macro gna thus (Bleeker). 



Padang, Sumatra 1. 

 Odontognathus mucronatus Lac^pfede. 



Surinam 2. 



1 Repert. Fis. Nat. Cvba, II, 1866-68, p. 242. Matanzas. 



2 Very. Am. Mer. Orbig. Poiss., 1847, p. 8, PI. 10, fig. 2. Buenos Aires. 

 » Hist. Nat. Poiss., XX, 1847, p. 222. Mouth of the Amazon. 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 211 



DOROSOMATIDiE. 

 Dorosoma cepedianum (Le Sueur). 



{Chatoessus insociahilis Abbott, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1860, p. 365. 

 Trenton, N. J.) 



Nos. 23,030 and 23,031, A. N. S. P., cotypes of C. insociahilis Abbott. 

 Torresdale, Pa. 1; Potomac R. 1; Bayport, Fla. 3; Ohio ? 2; Wabash 

 R., Indiana 1; Ft. Riley, Kansas 18; Davenport, Iowa 6; St. Joseph, 

 Mo. 11. 



Dorosoma cepedianum exile Jordan and Gilbert. 



San Diego, Tex. 1. 

 Dorosoma petenensis (Gunther). 



Panama 1 (J. A. McNiel). 



Signalosa mexicana (Gunther). 

 Vokisia, Fla. 1. 



BNGRAULIDID^. 

 Anchovia olupeoides (Swainson). 



Santo Domingo 1 ; Rio Seco, Porto Rico 1 . These both agree with 

 Swainson's account, though likely Stolephorus surinamensis Bleeker 

 may be different. Engraulis productus Poey is evidently a synonym 

 of the present species. 



ANCHOVIELLA subgen. nov. 

 Type Engraulis perfasciatus Poey. 



This differs from the subgenus Anchovia Jordan and Evermann in 

 the fewer gill-rakers, usually much less than 100 or about 35 to 50. 

 Prof. E. C. Starks has kindly examined the gill-rakers of Anchovia 

 macrolepidota (Kner and Steindachner) , the tj^ical species of Anchovia, 

 and finds them about 106 + 135. Anchoviella includes the majority 

 of species of Anchovia. 



(Anchoviella, diminutive of Anchovia, as most of the species are of 

 small size.) 



Anchovia perfasciata (Poey). 



Port Antonio, Jamaica 5; Aguadilla, Porto Rico 3. 



Anchovia scitula sp. nov. Fig. 2. 



Head 4i; depth 6^;' D. iii, 13; A. iii, 16, i; P. i, 13; V. i, 6; scales 

 about 40 in lateral series (counted by pockets) + 2 more on caudal 

 base; about 9 scales (pockets) between dorsal origin and middle of 

 belly; about 22 predorsal scales; head width 2^ its length; head 

 depth at occiput If; dorsal base 1|; least depth of caudal peduncle 




212 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



3^; anal base l^^; pectoral (damaged) 2"; ventral (damaged) 2i; 

 snout 4; eye 3^; maxillary 1^; interorbital 4. 



Body elongate, slender, well compressed, profiles similar, apparently 

 deepest at dorsal origin, edges rounded? Caudal peduncle com- 

 pressed, its least depth about 3 in its length. 



Head well compressed, profiles similar and slightly convex, flattened 

 sides a little approximated below so that lower surface much narrower 

 than upper and not keeled medianly. Snout conic, profiles convex, 

 protruding, length about equals its basal width. Eye rather large, 

 rounded, a little elevated, at first f in head. Adipose eyelid thin, 

 covers eye entirely. Mouth large, front above with scarcely median 

 depression. Maxillary straight, slightly ex})anded distally about 

 3^ in eye, reaches hind preopercle edge, though not quite to articulation 

 of mandible. Maxillary teeth uniserial, close-set, anterior slightly 



Fig. 2. — Anchovia scitula Fowler. Type. 



bent back and posterior slightly inclined forward, throughout greater 

 median extent of about uniform size, though anteriorly and posteriorly 

 graduated down a little smaller, not continuous over front of upper 

 jaw, and extending to hind end of bone. Similar more minute erect 

 mandibular teeth, not connected across symphysis. Apparently 

 no palatine or vomerine teeth, and pterygoids hardly roughened. 

 Tongue smooth small knob, attached in front of mandible, from behind 

 its upper surface and length of basibranchial shaft above a narrow 

 area of minute asperities. Mandible convex over surface, constricted 

 to point at symphysis, rami not elevated or only sloping gradually 

 toward articulation behind. Mandible tip extends forward about 

 opposite anterior nostril. Nostrils small, together, a trifle nearer eye 

 than snout tip. Interorbital broadly convex. Each supraoccipital 

 ridge distinct, flaring out a little over each eye anteriorly. Cheek 

 would nearly form an equilateral triangle. Cheek and opercle smooth. 

 Gill-opening forward about opposite front eye edge. Rakers 19 + 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 213 



26, slender, pointed, compressed, inner edges minutely denticulated, 

 1^ in eye. Filaments 2 in eye. Pseudobranehiae 2^ in eye. Isthmus 

 long, slender, narrowly compressed, and lower edge level, not tren- 

 chant. Branchiostegals 13, membranes united anteriorly only very 

 short distance, forming narrow free fold over isthmus. 



Scales caducous, or most all having fallen, according to pockets 

 apparently narrowly imbricated, disposed in even longitudinal series, 

 more or less uniform in size. Caudal base scaly, scales becoming 

 small on bases of lobes, and inner bases of lobes each with an area of 

 crowded elongated or horizontal scales. Dorsal and anal basal scaly 

 sheaths? Long pointed distally free axillary pectoral scaly flap at 

 least f length of fin. Axillary ventral scaly flap ? 



Dorsal origin midway between hind pupil edge and caudal base, 

 graduated down from first branched ray (damaged) which apparently 

 longest. Anal inserted about opposite middle of dorsal base or a 

 little nearer pectoral origin than caudal base, anterior branched rays 

 longest and others graduated down. Caudal forked, lobes (damaged) 

 pointed and apparently equal. Pectoral small, low, and apparently 

 (damaged) 1^ to ventral. Latter inserted a little nearer anal origin 

 than pectoral, and apparently (damaged) not quite half-way to anal. 

 Vent close before anal. 



Color in alcohol largely dull brownish on trunk-, scarcely paler below. 

 Head a little pale brownish above, sides and below silvery-white. 

 Iris similar. A leaden-white band along side, from shoulder to caudal 

 base, rather indistinct along costal region, above anal its width about 

 1^ in eye and along side of caudal peduncle becoming still narrower. 

 Fins all pale or dull brownish- white. 



Length 4 inches (caudal tips damaged). 



Type No. 1,576, A. N.S. P. San Diego, Cal. W. N. Lockington. 



Only the above-described example known to me, and received many 

 years ago. It appears to be related to Anchovia exigua (Jordan and 

 Gilbert), but differs in a number of characters, such as the shorter 

 maxillary, complete mandibular dentition, longer gill-rakers, slightly 

 more posterior insertion of dorsal, more slender body and more pro- 

 nounced silvery lateral band. Anchovia miarcha (Jordan and Gilbert), 

 based on young examples, differs from Anchovia scitula in its fewer 

 anal rays being 12 to 14, dorsal origin midway between snout and 

 caudal, and no distinct lateral silvered band. It would hardly appear 

 likely they are the young of the latter. Anchovia starksi (Gilbert 

 and X ierson) differs in its more anterior dorsal origin, more posterioi 

 anal origin and longer maxillary. 



(Scitulus, slender.) 




214 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



Anohovia perthecata (Goode and Bean). 



One example without locality. 



Anohovia purpurea (Fowler). 



(Stolephorus purpureus Fowler, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1900, p.l497, 

 PI. 19, fig. 1. Hawaiian Islands.) ^ 



Nos. 23,329 and 23,330, cot}T)es of Stolephorus purpureus Fowler. 

 Also 16 examples from Hawaiian Islands. 

 Anohovia lepidentostole sp. nov. Fig. 3. 



Head 4i; depth 4; D. iii, 12, i; A. iii, 22, i; P. i, 12; V. i, 5; 

 scales 35 in lateral series to caudal base and 3 more on latter; 9 scales 

 obliquely forward from dorsal origin to that of ventral; predorsal 

 scales 18; head width If its length; head depth at occiput 1|; dorsal 

 base 1^; least depth caudal peduncle 2^; pectoral If; ventral 3; 

 snout 5; eye 3^; maxillary 1^; mandible If; interorbital 3J. 



Fig. 3. — Anchovia lepidentostole Fowler. Type. 



Body elongate, rather plump, compressed, fusiform or profiles 

 rather evenly and similarly convex, gi*eatest depth at dorsal origin, 

 a slight dorsal and abdominal median keel and other edges convex. 

 Caudal peduncle compressed, least depth H its length. 



Head compressed, profiles slightly convex or similarly inclined, 

 sides flattened and constricted well below so that lower surface formed 

 much narrower than upper. Snout convex over surface and in profile, 

 well protruded, length | its basal width. Eye large, rounded, a little 

 elevated, first third its length. Adipose eyelid covers eye, well 

 developed. Mouth large, front above with scarcely median depression. 

 Maxillary slightly curved, a little expanded distally till about 3^ in 

 eye, and not quite reaching preopercle ridge or mandibular articula- 

 tion. Maxillary teeth fine, sharp-pointed, close-set, uniserial, all 

 directed slightly forward, graduated down from front to end of bone, 

 not continuous over front of upper jaw, and extending to hind end of 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. . 215 



bone. Similar more erect and uniform mandibular teeth, not con- 

 nected over symphysis. Apparently no vomerine, palatine or ptery- 

 goid teeth. Tongue small rounded smooth knob in mandible anteriorly. 

 Upper surface of basibranchial shaft finely asperous. Mandible 

 convex over surface, constricted to point at symphysis, rami not 

 elevated inside mouth, sloping gradually toward articulation behind. 

 Mandible included within upper jaw, so that snout protruded a little, 

 and its tip extends little beyond anterior nostril. Nostrils small, 

 together, a little nearer eye front than snout tip. Interorbital broadly 

 convex. Each supraorbital ridge distinct, flaring slightly over each 

 eye anteriorly. Cheek woidd form an equilateral triangle. Cheek 

 and opercle smooth, except for a number of transverse mucous arbores- 

 cent channels or tubes. 



Gill-opening forward to front eye edge. Rakers about 18 + 25, 

 slender, pointed, compressed, inner edges minutely denticulated, 

 1^ in eye. Filaments If in eye. Pseudobranchia? 3 in eye. Isthmus 

 long, slender, narrowly compressed, lower edge level and not trenchant. 

 Branchiostegals about 10, membranes apparently scarcely united 

 anteriorly. 



Scales largely adherent, narrowly imbricated, disposed in even 

 longitudinal series, more or less uniform in size. Each scale with 

 2 to 4 vertical striae, and about 3 anterior horizontal. Caudal base 

 scaly, scales becoming small on bases of lobes, and inner bases of lobes 

 each with an area of crowded elongated or horizontal scales. Dorsal . 

 and anal with basal scaly sheaths. liong pointed distally free axillary 

 pectoral scaly flap but trifle less than fin in length. Similar axillary 

 ventral scaly flap. 



Dorsal origin midway between snout tip and caudal base, anterior 

 rays elongate and graduated down from first branched. Anal origin 

 about opposite first third in dorsal length, anterior rays elongate and 

 graduated down from first branched rays, fin low posteriorly. Caudal 

 emarginate (damaged), and lobes apparently pointed and equal. 

 Pectoral f to ventral. Ventral origin nearer that of anal than of 

 pectoral, fin about half-way to anal. Vent close before anal. 



Color in alcohol generally pale brownish, everywhere with traces 

 of silvery sheen. Head largely silvery on sides and below. A broad 

 silvery lateral band, about equals vertical eye-diameter, becomes a 

 little constricted at shoulder and along caudal peduncle side. This 

 well defined. Iris silvered white. Fins all pale brownish-white. 



Length (caudal tips a little damaged) 4 inches. 



Type No. 1,346, A. N. S. P. Surinam. Dr. Constantine J. Hering. 




216 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



Also No. 1,347, A. N. S. P., paratype, same data. Head 3|; depth 

 4; D. Ill, 12; A. iii, 21, i; scales 38 (largely according to pockets) + 

 3 ; 9 scales (pockets) between dorsal and anal origins ; predorsal 

 scales (pockets) 18; snout 4^ in head; eye 3|^; maxillary 1^; inter- 

 orbital 3J; length 3 inches. 



This species appears related to Anchovia brevirostris (Giinther) 

 from Bahia, but seems to differ in the more numerous anal radii, that 

 species having but 18. Anchovia januarius (Steindachner) is also a 

 closely related species, but it differs as the origin of the dorsal is said 

 to lie about an eye-diameter nearer the caudal base than the snout 

 tip. In both of my examples it is about midway between the snout 

 tip and the caudal base, and there is no trace of a dark gray cross- 

 streak on latter, 



(yle-j'?, scale; =>rrt9, within; Troktl^ stole; with reference to the 

 median lateral row of scales in the silvery lateral band.) 



Anchovia brownii (Gmelin). 



Ocean City 57, Corson's Inlet 5, N. J. ; Ft. Macon, N. C. 1 ; Hailer's 

 Rock 28, Marquesas Keys 25, Tortugas 2, Fla. ; Santo Domingo 1 ; 

 Mayaguez, Porto Rico 1; Rio Janeiro, Brazil 1. 



Anchovia platyargyrea sp. nov. Fig. 4. 



Head 3i; depth 4f; D. iii, 12; A. iii, 19, i; P. i, 12; V. i, 6; scales 

 about 35 (according to pockets) in lateral series to caudal base + 3 

 on latter; about 7 scales (pockets) between dorsal and ventral origins; 

 about 15 predorsal scales (pockets); head width 2f its length; head 

 depth If; snout 4f ; eye 3f ; maxillary 1|; interorbital 4; dorsal 

 length If; least depth caudal peduncle 3^ ; caudal length If ; anal base 

 If; pectoral length 2; ventral 3; mandible If. 



Body well compressed, moderately long, profiles similarly and 

 rather evenly convex, edges all rounded and predorsal scarcely tren- 

 chant, greatest depth about dorsal origin. Caudal peduncle well 

 compressed, its least depth about H its length. 



Head well compressed, profiles similarly inclined, though upper 

 little more convex, flattened sides a little approximated below so that 

 lower surface much narrower than upper and not keeled medianly. 

 Snout conic, well protruding, basal width about equals its length. 

 Eye rounded, rather high, a little before first third in head. Adipose 

 eyelid well developed, covering eye entirely. Jlouth large, front above 

 with slight median depression. Maxillary straight, distally attenuated 

 beyond mandibular articulation though not quite to gill-opening, its 

 distal width 3^ in eye. Maxillary teeth uniserial, close-set, fine, only 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 217 



most anterior slightly bent back and greater extent posteriorly slightly 

 bend forward, though still more anteriorly and posteriorly graduated 

 down a little smaller, not continuous over front of upper jaw, and 

 extending to distal end of bone. Similar more erect mandibular 

 teeth, not connected across symphysis, more minute. A small asperous 

 process each side of vomer, asperities very minute. Similar palatine 

 and pterygoid asperities. Tongue .smooth small knob, attached in 

 front of mandible, from behind its upper surface and length of basi- 

 branchial shaft above minutely asperous in narrow area. Mandible 

 convex over surface, constricted to point at symphysis, rami not 

 elevated inside mouth or only gradually sloping to articulation behind. 

 Mandible tip extends forward about midway in postnasal. Nostrils 

 small, together, about last f in snout. Interorbital broadly convex. 

 Each supraorbital ridge distinct, flaring out a little over each eye 

 anteriorly. Cheek would form an isosceles triangle, its base being 

 nearly half its height. Cheek and opercle smooth. 



Fig 4. — Anchovia platyargyrea Fowler. Type. 



Gill-opening forward till about opposite middle of eye. Rakers 

 about 15 + 20, slender, pointed, compressed, inner edges minutely 

 denticulated, 1| in eye. Filaments 1^ in eye. Pseudobranchiae 

 2 in eye. Isthmus long, slender, compressed, lower edge convex. 

 Branchiostegals 12, membranes united anteriorly only very short 

 distance, forming narrow free fold over isthmus. 



Scales caducous, mostly fallen, narrowly imbricated, disposed in 

 even longitudinal series, each with about 5 vertical striae, and all of 

 more or less uniform size. Dorsal and anal depressible within basal 

 scaly sheaths somewhat. Caudal base scaly, inner edges of lobes each 

 with an area of small crowded elongated or horizontal scales, and lobes 

 basally with fine scales. Long pointed distally free axillary pectoral 

 scaly flap f length of fin. Similar axillary ventral scaly flap but little 

 less than fin. 




218 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



Dorsal origin midway between front pupil edge and caudal base, 

 graduated down from first branched ray which is longest, and tips of 

 anterior depressed rays extending but little behind last rays. Anal 

 origin about opposite base of eleventh branched dorsal ray or a little 

 nearer caudal base than pectoral origin, graduated down from first 

 branched or longest ray. Caudal well forked, pointed lobes about 

 equal. Pectoral about | to ventral. Ventral inserted a trifle nearer 

 pectoral origin than anal origin, and barely reaching half-way to 

 latter. Vent close in front of anal. 



Color in alcohol largely dull brownish, becoming paler about region 

 of peritoneum. Head brownish above, sides and below, also iris, 

 silver-white. A broad well-defined lateral silvery band, expanding 

 to greatest width over anal where it equals l\ eye-diameters. Fins 

 all pale brownish, dorsal and caudal minutely dotted with dusky. 



Length 3 inches. 



Type No. 1,416, A. N. S. P. St. Martin's, West Indies. Dr. R. E. 

 Van Rijgersma. 



Also Nos. 1,417 to 1,503, A. N. S. P., paratypes, same data. Ten 

 of these examples, besides 9 from Fojardo, Porto Rico, identified by 

 Evermann and Marsh* as Anchovia chcerostoma (Goode), show: Head 

 3^ to 3^; depth ^ to 5f ; D. usually in, 12, i, frequently in, 11, i; 

 A. usually in, 18, i, often in, 17, i or in, 19, i, rarely in, 16, i or iii, 

 20, i; scales in lateral series usually about 33 or 34, often 32 or 35, 

 seldom 30, 31, 36 or 37 + 2 or 3; usually about 9 scales transversely 

 between dorsal origin and ventral origin; usually 17 predorsal scales, 

 frequently 16, often 15 or 18, seldom 14; snout 4 to 4f in head; eye 

 3| to 4^; maxillary but little less than head; interorbital 3^ to 4|; 

 length If to 2f inches. 



From Anchovia chcerostoma (Goode) it differs in the maxillary not 

 reaching the gill-opening, dorsal origin before depressed ventral tips, 

 pectoral not reaching ventral and lateral silvery band wider than eye. 

 Anchovia argentivittata (Regan) has fewer anal rays. Anchovia 

 astilbe (Jordan and Rutter) is without a silvery lateral band. Anchovia 

 cubana (Poey) has a longer maxillary. 



([JXarlx^^ broad; apyupv?^ silver; with reference to the broad silvery 

 lateral band.) 



Anchovia commersoniiii (Lac^pfede). 



Padang, Sumatra 5, of which 2 are now in Stanford University. 



-• BuU. U. S. F. Com., 1900, p. 88. 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 219 



Anchovia delicatissima (Girard). 

 San Diego, Cal. 15. 



Anchovia eurystole (Swain and Meek). 



Dr. R. J. Phillips secured a single example at Corson's Inlet, N. J,, 

 on October 24, 1909, which is now in the collection. This is the 

 first specimen I have examined. 



Anchovia cayorum (Fowler). 



(Anchovia choprostoma cayorum Fowler, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1906, 

 p. 85, fig. 4. Hailer'8 Rock, Fla. Keys.) 



No. 30,613, A. N. S. P., type of A. choerostoma cayorum Fowler. 



Also 17 others with same data. 



Anchovia mitchilli (Valenciennes). 



Wood's Hole, Mass. 2; Seaside Park 3, Beesley's Point 3, Corson's 

 Inlet 12, N. J.; Fort Delaware, Del. 32; Tolchester Beach, Md. 1. 



Goode's figure of Engraulis vittatus,^ which has been allowed to 

 represent this species, differs at once in having 13 scales transversely. 



Anchovia compressa (Girard). 

 San Diego, Cal. 1. 



Anchovia tapirula (Cope). 



(Engraulis iapirulus Cope, Proc. Amer. Philos. Soc , XVIII, 1877, p. 45. 

 Probably Pecasmayo Bay, Peru.) 



No. 21,851, A. N. S. P., type of E. tapirulus Cope. 



Anchovia duodeoim (Cope). 



(Engraulis duodecim Cope, Trans. Am. Philos. Soc. (2) XIII, 1869, p. 405. 

 Beesley's Point, N. J.) 



No. 1,363, A. N. S. P., type of E. duodecim Cope. 



Anchovia encrasicholoides (Bleaker). 



Padang, Sumatra 4. 



Anchovia nasus (Kner and Steindachner). 



Probably Pecasmayo Bay, Peru 1. 



Engraulis encrasicolus (Linnaeus). 



Italy 5 (in Bonaparte Coll.) ; no data 1 (Cope). 

 Engraulis mordax Girard. 



Santa Barbara 4, Point Lobos 1, Point Reyes 1, San Diego 1, Cal.; 

 no data 5, probably Cal. ? 

 Engraulis ringens Jenyns. 



Probably Pecasmayo Bay, Peru 1 



* Nat. Hist. Aquat* An. U. S. Com. Fish and Fisheries, 1884, PI. 218. Noank, 

 Conn. 




220 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [March^ 



Cetengraulis edentulus (Cuvier). 



Rio Janeiro, Brazil 1, 

 Cetengraulis engymen (Gilbert and Pierson). 



Panama (J. A. McNiel) 15. 



Thryssa valenciennesi (Bleeker). 



Padang, Sumatra 2, of which 1 now^in'Stanford University. 



Pterengraulis atherinoides (Linnaeus). 

 Surinam 1. 



Telara telara (Hamilton-Buchanan). 



Ganges R., India 1. 



Lycengraulis grossidens (Agassiz). 

 Surinam 1. 



QONORHYNOHID^. 

 Gonorhynchus gonorhynchus (Linnaeus). 

 Melbourne, Australia 4. 



OSTEOGLOSSIDJE. 

 Osteoglossum bicirrhosum Agas,siz. 



Manacapuru, Brazil 1 ; between Rio Negro mouth and Peru 1 ; 

 Peruvian Amazon 1 ; Ambyiacu R. 2. 



Scleropages guntheri (Castelnau). 



Thirteen examples from "New Zealand" received from Dr. J. 

 Haast. These examples differ from the account and figure of Sclero- 

 pages leichardti Giinther,^ chiefly in the shorter maxillary, longer 

 eye and longer pectoral, all points in harmony with Osteoglossum 

 guntheri Castelnau,' a species which is not noticed by Saville-Kent. 

 The latter apparently wrongly identifies Scleropages leichardti, as a 

 glance at his distinctions for that species as compared with his Osteo- 

 glossum jardinii,^ will show. Thus it appears Osteoglossum leichardti 

 Saville-Kent is not of Giinther, but really identical with Scleropages 

 guntheri (Castelnau), and Osteoglossum jardinii Saville-Kent is iden- 

 tical with Scleropages leichardti Giinther. It may be doubtful that 

 my examples were indigenous to New Zealand, though they were all 

 labeled with that locality. Their identity with Castelnau's species 



8 Ann. Mag. Nat. Hist., (3) XIV, 1864, p. 196, PI. 7. Burdekin River, Queens- 

 land. 



' Journ. de Zool. Gervais, V, 1876, p. 131. Northeast 'Australia. 



» Proc. Roy. Soc. Queensland, VIII, pt. 2, 1890-91, p. 105. Northern Queens- 

 land. 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 221 



is in every way established. They show the following variations in 

 some of the principal characters. 



Head 3| to 4f ; depth 3| to 4f ; D. usually 18, often 17, rarely 16 

 or 19; A. usually 29, often 28, seldom 27; scales in 1. 1. usually 32, 

 seldom 30, 31, 33 or 34 + usually 4, often 3; usually 4 scales above 

 1. 1., sometimes 5; usually 5 scales below 1. 1., frequently 4, rarely 6; 

 predorsal scales usually 23 or 24, sometimes 21, 25 or 26; snout 4{ 

 to 5 in head, measured from snout tip to hind bony opercle edge; 

 eye 5;^ to 6^; maxillary If to 1|; interorbital 3| to 3|; length 11-^- to 

 23i inches. 




222 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



ON SOME COLLECTIONS OF REPTILES AND BATRACHIANS FROM THE 

 WESTERN UNITED STATES. 



BY WITMER STONE. 



Members of the Academy museum staff have taken part in several 

 expeditions to various parts of the western United States during the 

 last few years, more especially for the collecting of insects and mol- 

 lusks, but in nearly every instance a certain number of reptiles and 

 batrachians were procured. While no serious efforts were made to 

 obtain complete collections at any one point, nevertheless a number of 

 interesting specimens were taken, including one species of snake, 

 Elaphe chlorosoma, new to our fauna. The exact localities accompany- 

 ing the specimens will be of value in tracing the distribution of the 

 various species, and the writer, who has had the privilege of studying 

 the several collections, presents the following list mainly with that 

 object in view. The several collections are as follows: 



Fifty-five specimens obtained by Dr. Henry Skinner in Carr Canon, 

 Huachuca Mountains, Arizona, in August, 1905. 



Thirty-six specimens obtained by Dr. Henry A. Pilsbry and Mr. 

 J. H. Ferriss, of Joliet, 111., who accompanied him, in various parts of 

 Arizona, September to November, 1907, and sixty-five obtained in 

 Arizona and New Mexico, August to October, 1910. 



Three collections presented by Mr. Morgan Hebard, who, accom- 

 panied by Mr. J. A. G. Rehn, of the Academy staff, made trips to the 

 West in 1907, 1909 and 1910. 



The 1907 collection comprised thirty-seven specimens from Arizona, 

 New Mexico and Texas. 



The 1909 collection, fifty-nine specimens from Nebraska, Montana, 

 Wyoming, Oregon, California, Nevada, Utah and Colorado. 



The 1910 collection, eighty-one specimens from Wyoming, Idaho, 

 Oregon, California, Arizona, New Mexico and Nevada. 



The number given opposite each specimen is that of the Academy's 

 Herpetological Catalogue, and is attached to each individual. 



The writer begs to acknowledge his indebtedness to Dr. L. Stejneger, 

 of the United States National Museum, who kindly examined several 

 specimens of which the identity was in doubt. 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 223 



BATRACHIA. 

 Ambystoma maorodactylum Baird. Long-toed Salamander. 



18,032. La Grande, Union County, Ore. August 15, 1910. 

 Hebard and Rehn. 



This was the only salamander obtained by any of the parties. 



Scaphiopus couchii Baird. Couch's Spadefoot. 



17,475-6. Roeble's Ranch, near Coyote Springs, between Tucson 

 and the Baboquivari Mountains, Arizona. July 24, 1907. Hebard 

 and Rehn. 



17,891-3. Mesa east of Big Hatchet Mountains. Dr. H. A. Pilsbry. 



Scaphiopus hammondi Baird. Western Spadefoot. 



17,491-4. Alamogordo, Otero County, N. Mex. July 13, 1907. 

 Hebard and Rehn. 



Bufo boreas Baird and Girard. Nortliwestem Toad. 



17,841-3. Siskiyou, Siskiyou Mountains, Jackson County, Ore., 

 4,100 feet. August 13, 1909. Hebard and Rehn. 



Bufo cognatus Say. Grtat Plains Toad. 



17,477. Roeble's Ranch, between Tucson and the Baboquivari 

 Mountains, Arizona. July 24, 1907. Hebard and Rehn. 

 17,905. Tucson, Ariz. 1910. Dr. H. A. Pilsbry. 



Bufo alvarius Girard. Desert Toad. 



17,890. Maricopa, Pinal County, Ariz. 1910. Dr. H. A. Pilsbry. 



This specimen came hopping in at the door of a restaurant. Messrs. 

 Hebard and Rehn saw several in a rain-water barrel at Sentinel, 

 Ariz., in October, 1910. 



Bufo punctatus Baird and Girard. Spotted Toad. 



17,913-6. Agua Caliente Canon, Santa Rita Mountains, Arizona, 

 5,000 feet. 1910. Dr. H. A. Pilsbry. 



17,949-51. Otero (?) Canon, Baboquivari Mountains, Arizona. 

 1910. Dr. H. A. Pilsbry. 



17,532. North side Grand Canon, Mystic Spring Trail, Coconimo 

 County, Ariz., 1907. Dr. H. A. Pilsbry. 

 Bufo lentiginosus americanus Le Conte. American Toad. 



17,834. North Platte, near Casper, Natrona County, Wyo. July 

 17, 1909. Hebard and Rehn. 



18,030-1. Sidney, Cheyenne County, Neb. July 30, 1910. Hebard 

 and Rehn. 



Bufo lentiginosus woodhousei Girard. Rocky Mountain Toad. 



17,879-80. Caliente, Lincoln County, Nev. September 3, 1909, 

 Hebard and Rehn. 




224 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



Hyla arenicolor Cope. Sand-colored Tree Toad. 



17,533-64. North side of Grand Caiion, Mystic Spring Trail, 

 Coconimo County, Ariz. October, 1907. Dr. H. A. Pilsbry. 



17,920. East of saddle of "Old Baldy," Santa Rita Mountains, 

 Arizona, 7,500 feet. 1910. Dr. H. A. Pilsbry. 



Chorophilus triseriatus Wied. Swamp Tree Frog. 



17,876-8. Las Vegas, Lincoln County, Nev. September 2, 1909. 

 Hebard and Rehn. 



18,034. Nampa, Canon County, Idaho. August 9, 1910. Hebard 

 and Rehn. 

 Bana pipiens brachycephala Cope. Mountain Leopard Frog. 



18,011-14. Mountain Home, Elmore County, Idaho. August 9, 

 1910. Hebard and Rehn. 



Baaa pipiens Shreber. Leopard Frog. 



17,899. Agua Caliente Canon, Santa Rita Mountains, Arizona. 

 1910. Dr. H. A. Pilsbry. 



17,904. Santa Cruz River, Tucson, Ariz. Dr. H. A. Pilsbry. 

 17,933. Santa Cruz River, Tucson, Ariz. Dr. H. A. Pilsbry. 

 17,907. Tucson, Ariz. Dr. H. A. Pilsbry. 



Bana fisheri Stejneger. Fisher's Frog. 



17,873-5. Las Vegas, Lincoln County, Nev. September 2, 1909. 

 Hebard and Rehn. 



These specimens are from the type locality and seem in every way 

 like the originals. They were not observed elsewhere. 



REPTILIA. 



Dipsosaurns dorsalis (Baird and Girard). Crested Lizard. 



Three specimens collected by Messrs. Hebard and Rehn as follows : 

 17,857-8. Lyons, San Bernardino, Cal. September 1, 1909. 

 18,027. Yuma, Ariz. October 1, 1910. 



Crotophytus ooUaris baileyi Stejneger. Bailey's Lizard. 

 Three specimens obtained by Messrs. Hebard and Rehn. 

 17,512. Mesa south of Franklin Mountains, El Paso, Tex. July 



9, 1907. 



18,033. Mesa at El Paso, Tex., 2,800 feet. August 9, 1910. 

 18,006. Mason, Lyon County, Nev., 4,500 feet. September 5, 1910. 



Grotophytas wislizeni Baird and Girard. Leopard Lizard. 



Eight specimens collected by Messrs. Hebard and Rehn. 



17,511. Desert east of Franklin Mountains, El Paso, Tex. July 



10. 1907. 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 225 



17,864. Lyons, San Bernardino County, Cal. September 1, 1909. 

 17,954. Snyder's Hill, Pima County, Ariz. October 11, 1910. 

 18,004-5. Mason, Lyon County, Nev., 4,500 feet. September 

 5, 1910. 



18,015-17. Mountain Home, Elmore County, Idaho. August 9, 1910. 



Callisaurus ventralis (Hallowell). Zebra-tailed Lizard. 



17,472-4. Roeble's Ranch, Pima County, Ariz. July 24, 1907. 

 Hebard and Rehn. 

 17,482. Yuma, Ariz. July 27, 1907. Hebard and Rehn. 

 17,859-63. Lyons, San Bernardino County, Cal. November 5, 



1909. Hebard and Rehn. 



17,986. Palm Springs, Riverside County, Cal. September 29, 1910. 

 Hebard and Rehn. 



17,987-8. Warren, Kern County, Cal., 3,500 feet. September 17, 



1910. Hebard and Rehn. 



17,994-6. Slope east of Mina, Esmerelda County, Nev., 4,800 feet. 

 September 3, 1910. Hebard and Rehn. 



18,000-3. Mason, Lyon County, Nev., 4,500 feet. September 5, 

 1910. Hebard and Rehn. 

 Holbrookia maoulata maculata Glrard. Spotted Lizard. 



17,832-3. Sandhills, Halsey, Thomas County, Neb. July 11, 1909. 

 Hebard and Rehn. 



17,884 and 17,886. Sterling, Logan County, Colo. July 15, 1909. 

 Hebard and Rehn. 



17,966. Sand Hills of North Platte. July 28. Hebard and Rehn. 

 Holbrookia maoulata approximans Baird. Allied Spotted Lizard. 



16,490-1. Carr Canon, Huachuca Mountains, Arizona. August, 

 1905. Dr. H. Skinner. 



17,479. Sonora Road Canon, Tucson Mountains, Pima County, 

 Ariz. July 25, 1907. Hebard and Rehn. 



17,925 and- 17,927. Gija River, Pima County, Ariz. 1910. Dr. 

 H. A. Pilsbry. 



17,928-30. Mesa, near the Baboquivari Mountains, Arizona. 

 Dr. H. A. Pilsbry. 



17,999. Sycamore Caiion, Baboquivari Mountains, Arizona. 

 August 6, 1910. Hebard and Rehn. 

 Holbrookia maculata flavilenta Cope. Cope's Spotted Lizard. 



16,492. Carr Canon, Huachuca Mountains, Arizona. August, 1905. 

 Dr. H. Skinner. 



17,500. East of Alamogordo, N. Mex. (Greasewood belt). July 

 13, 1907. Hebard and Rehn. 

 15 




226 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



Holbrookia tezana Troschel. Texan Zebra-tailed Lizard. 



17,495. Greasewood Belt east of Alamogordo, N. Mex. July 13, 

 1907. Hebard and Rehn. 



17,515-17. Mesa east of the Franklin Mountains, El Paso, Tex. 

 July 10, 1907. Hebard and Rehn. 



17,908. Mineral Hill, 19 miles south of Tucson, Ariz. 1910. 

 Dr. H. A. Pilsbry. 



TJta stansburyana Baird and Girard. Stansbury's Swift. 



17,497-9. Greasewood belt east of Alamogordo, N. Mex. July 

 13, 1907. Hebard and Eehn. 



17,510. Mesa east of the Franklin Mountains, El Paso, Tex. July 

 10, 1907. Hebard and Rehn. 



17,855. Roscoe, Los Angeles County, Cal. August 23, 1909. 

 Hebard and Rehn. 



17,868-72. Las Vegas, Nev. September 2, 1909. Hebard and 

 Rehn. 



17,970-2. San Jacinto Mountains, Riverside County, Cal. Septem- 

 ber 30, 1910. Hebard and Rehn. 



17,973-7. Beaumont, Riverside County, Cal. September 28, 1910. 

 Hebard and Rehn. 



17,979-80. Mt. Lowe, Los Angeles County, Cal. September 25, 

 1910. Hebard and Rehn. 



17,989-91. Warren, Kern County, Cal. September 17, 1910. 

 Hebard and Rehn. 



18,009-10. Mason, Lyon County, Nev., 4,500 feet. September 5, 

 1910. Hebard and Rehn. 



18,023-26. Sentinel, Maricopa County, Ariz. October 2, 1910. 

 Hebard and Rehn. 



18,028. Yuma, Ariz. October 1, 1910. Hebard and Rehn. 



17,956. Mohave, Kern County, Cal. September 15, 1910. Hebard 

 and Rehn. 



TJta symmetrica Baird. White-bellied Swift. 



17^484-5. Yuma, Ariz. July 28, 1907. Hebard and Rehn. 

 17,941-2. Baboquivari Mountains, Arizona. 1910. Dr. H. A. 

 Pilsbry. 



Uta ornata Baird and Girard.i Ornate Swift. 



16,506-9. Carr Canon, Huachuca Mountains, Arizona. August, 

 1905. Dr. H. Skinner. 



' Dr. Slejneger writes me that his record of U. symmetrica from the Huachuca 

 Mountains {Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., vol. 25, p. 150) was a lapsus for U. ornata. 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 227 



17.488. Luna County, N. Mex., north side of Florida Mountains. 

 July 19, 1907. Hebard and Rehn. 



17,496. Greasewood belt, east of Alamogordo, M. Mex. July 13, 

 1907. Hebard and Rehn. 



Soeloporus olarkii Baird and Girard. Clark's Swift. 



16,534-40. Carr Canon, Huachuca Mountains, Arizona. August, 

 1905. Dr. H. Skinner. 



16,524. Carr Canon, Huachuca Mountains, Arizona. August, 

 1905. Dr. H. Skinner. 



17,952. Baboquivari Mountains, Arizona. 1910. Dr. H. A. 

 Pilsbry. 



Dr. Skinner states that they were found among rocks along the 

 stream, and sought refuge under them when pursued. 



Soeloporus magister Hallowcll. HalloweU's Swift. 



17,471. Roeble's Ranch, near Coyote Springs, Pima County, 

 Ariz. July 24, 1907. 



17,483. Yuma, Ariz. July 28, 1907. Hebard and Rehn. 



Sceloporus jarrovii Cope. Yarrow's Swift. 



16,510-13. Carr Cailon, Huachuca Mountains, Arizona. August, 

 1905. Dr. H. Skinner. 



16,515-23. Carr Canon, Huachuca Mountains, Arizona. August, 

 1905. Dr. H. Skinner. 



16,525-27. Carr Canon, Huachuca Mountains, Arizona. August, 

 1905. Dr. H. Skinner. 



16.489. Carr Canon, Huachuca Mountains, Arizona. August, 

 1905. Dr. H. Skinner. 



17,529. Cave Creek Canon, Chiracahua Mountains, Cochise County, 

 Ariz. 1907. Dr. H. A. Pilsbry. 



17,898, 17,900 and 17,912. Santa Rita Mountains, Arizona. 1910. 

 Dr. H. A. Pilsbry. 



19,923-4. Cochise Stronghold, Dragoon Mountains, Arizona. 1910. 

 Dr. H. A. Pilsbry. * ' 



Found among rocks, according to Dr. Skinner: entering miners' 

 cabins and ever3^where the most common species in the regions 

 visited by Dr. Pilsbry. 



Soeloporus oousobrinus Baird and Girard. Yellow-banded Swift. 



17,506-7. Three miles southeast of El Paso, Tex., on the Rio 

 Grande. July 10, 1907. 



17,829-31. Sandhills, Halsey, Thomas County, Neb. "July 11, 

 1909. Hebard and Rehn. 




228 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



17,885. Sterling, Logan County, Colo. July 15, 1909. Hebard 

 and Rehn. 



Soeloporus biseriatus Hallowell. Western Swift. 



17,965. Reno, Nev., 4,500 feet. September 1, 1910. Hebard 

 and Rehn. 



17,976 and 17,978. Beaumont, Riverside County, Cal. Sep- 

 tember 28, 1910. Hebard and Rehn. 



17,981. Mt. Lowe, Los Angeles County, Cal. September 25, 1910. 

 Hebard and Rehn. 



17,993. Tahachapi, Kern County, Cal. September 16, 1910. 

 Hebard and Rehn. 



18,007. Mason, Lyon County, Nev. September 5, 1910. Hebard 

 and Rehn. 



Soeloporus graoiostiB Baird and Girard. Sage-brush Swift. 



17,835. Billings, Yellowstone County, Mont. July 28, 1909. 

 Hebard and Rehn. 



17,838. Siskiyou, Jackson County, Ore. ■ August 13, 1909. Hebard 

 and Rehn. 



17,845-6. Sugar Loaf, near Sisson, Siskiyou County, Cal. August 



15, 1909. Hebard and Rehn. 



17,882. Milford, Beaver County, Utah. September 5, 1909. 

 Hebard and Rehn. 



17,887. Iron Mountain, Garfield County, Colo., 0,500 feet. Sep- 

 tember 9, 1909. Hebard and Rehn. 



17,959-61. Pemberton, Umatilla County, Ore., 1,100 feet. August 



16, 1910. Hebard and Rehn. 



17,964. Table Mountain, Green River, Wy., 7,500 feet. August 

 3, 1910. Hebard and Rehn. 



17,981. Mt. Lowe, Los Angeles County, Cal. September 23, 1910. 

 Hebard and Rehn. 



Soeloporus obcidentalis* Harlan. Pacific Swift. 



17,839-40. Siskiyou, Jackson County, Ore., 5,000 feet. August 

 13, 1909. Hebard and Rehn. 



17,853. Mt. Tamalpais, Marin County, Cal., 1,100 feet. August 

 18, 1909. Hebard and Rehn. 



^ I take opportunity to state that the specimen of Soeloporus cauchi, reported 

 by me from Devil's River, Texas (Proc. A. N. S., 1903, p. 540), proves to be the 

 subsequently described S. merriami Stejneger. I was misled by Baird's state- 

 ment of the number of femoral pores, which Stejneger finds to be erroneous 

 upon a careful examination of the type. 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 229 



Phrynosoma douglassii brevirostre Glrard. Short-nosed Horned-toad. 



17,566-7. Springfield, Bingham County, Idaho. August, 1906. 

 Dr. Skinner. 



17,958. Green River, Sweetwater County, Wyo. August 3, 1910. 

 Hebard and Rehn. 



Phrynosoma hernandezi Girard. Hernandez's Horned-toad. 



16,495-8. Carr Caiion, Huachuca Mountains, Arizona. August, 

 1905. Dr. H. Skinner. 



17,486. Silver City, Grant County, N. Mex. July 21, 1907. 

 Hebard and Rehn. 



17,489-90. Cloudcroft, Otero County, N. Mex. July 15, 1907. 

 Hebard and Rehn. 



18,029. Sidney, Cheyenne County, Neb. July 30, 1910. Hebard 

 and Rehii. 



Phrynosoma hernandezi ornatissimum Bell. Ornamented Horned-toad. 



17,931. Bisbee, Ariz. 1910. Dr. H. A. Pilsbry. 

 Phrynosoma regale Girard. Regal Horned-t >ad. 



17,528. Greasewood Plain, Northeast of Tucson, Ariz. July 26, 

 1907.. Hebard and Rehn. 



17,918-19. Las Gijas, Pima County, Ariz. September 28, 1910. 

 Dr. H. A. Pilsbry. 



17,948. Baboquivari Mountains, Pima County, Ariz. Dr. H. A. 

 Pilsbry. 



17,957. Tucson, Ariz. October 12, 1910. Hebard and Rehn. 



17,906. Mineral Hill, 19 miles south of Tucson. 1910. Dr. H. A. 

 Pilsbry. 

 Phrynosoma frontale Van Dcnburgh. California Horned-toad. 



17,962. Del Monte, Monterey County, Cal. September 9, 1910. 

 Hebard and Rehn. 



Phrynosoma oornutum Harlan. Texas Horned-toad. 



17,508. Three miles southeast of El Paso, Tex. July 10, 1907. 

 Hebard and Rehn. 

 Phrynosoma modestum Girard. Little Horned-toad. 



17,513. Mesa east of the Franklin Mountains, El Paso, Tex. July 

 9, 1907. Hebard and Rehn. 



17,589. Guzman, Chihuahua, Mex. August 6, 1906. Dr. P. P. 

 Calvert. 



17,911. El Paso Co., Ariz. August 18, 1910. Dr. H. A. Pilsbry. 



17,935-7. Sheridan Canon, Hachita Mountains, N. Mex. 1910. 

 Dr. H. A. Pilsbry. 




230 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



Gerrhon«ta8 principis Baird and Girard. Keeled Lizard. 



17,836-7. Glendale, Douglas County, Ore. August 12, 1909, 

 1,900 feet. Hebard and Rehn. 



Gerrhonotas burnettii Gray. Burnett's Keeled Lizard. 



17,522-7. Mt. Tamalpals, California. September, 1907. Hebard 

 and Rehn. 



17,844. Sisson, Siskiyou County, Cal., 3,500 feet. August 15, 

 1909. Hebard and Rehn. 



17,854. San Miguel Hills, San Francisco, Cal., 700 feet. August 

 19, 1909. Hebard and Rehn. 



Oerrhenotas kingii Gray. King's Lizard. 



16.486. Carr Canon, Huachuca Mountains. August, 1905. Dr. 

 H. Skinner. 



Cnemidophorus sexlineatus Linn. Six-lined Lizard. 



17,501-2. Greasewood belt east of Alamogordo, N. Mex. July, 

 13, 1907. Hebard and Rehn. 



17,503-5. Three miles southeast of El Paso, Tex. July 10, 1907. 

 Hebard and Rehn. 



Cnemidophorus gularis Baird and Girard. Spotted Race Runner, 



16,501-5. Carr Canon, Huachuca Mountains, Ariz. August, 1905. 

 Dr. H. Skinner. 



17,934. Dragoon Station, Cochise County, Ariz. 1910. Dr. H. A. 

 Pilsbry. 

 Cnemidophorus grahamii Baird and Girard. Graham's Lizard. 



17,514. Mesa, east of the Franklin Mountains, El Paso, Tex. July 

 10, 1907. Hebard and Rehn. 



Cnemidophorus tigris Say. Tiger Lizard. 



17,478. Sonora Road Canon, Tucson Mountains, Arizona. July 

 25, 1907. Hebard and Rehn. 



17,481. Yuma, Ariz. July 27, 1907. Hebard and Rehn. 



17.487. Deming, N. Mex., dry bed of Rio Mimbres. July 18, 1907. 

 Hebard and Rehn. 



17,509. East of the Franklin Mountains, El Paso, Tex. July 10, 

 1907. Hebard and Rehn. 



17,865-7. Las Vegas, Lincoln County, Nev. September 2, 1909. 

 Hebard and Rehn. 



17,856. Lyons, San Bernardino County, Cal. September 1, 1909. 

 Hebard and Rehn. 



17,969. San Jacinto Mountains, Riverside County, Cal. September 

 30. 1910. Hebard and Rehn. 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 231 



17,985. Palm Springs, Riverside County, Cal. September 29, 

 1910. Hebard and Rehn. 



18,018-22. Sentinel, Maricopa County, Ariz. October 2, 1910. 

 Hebard and Rehn. 



Cnemidophorus tigris melauostethus Cope. Black-throated Tigtr Lizard. 



17,466-70. Roeble's Ranch, Coyote Springs between Tucson and 

 Baboquivari Mountains, Arizona. July 24, 1907. Hebard and 

 Rehn. 



Eameoes obsoletas Baird and Girard. Sonora Skink. 



16.487. Carr Canon, Huachuca Mountains, Arizona. August, 

 1905. Dr. H. Skinner. 



16,493-4. Carr Canon, Huachuca Mountains, Arizona. August, 

 1905. Dr. H. Skinner. 



Diadophis regalis Baird and Ciirard. Sonora Ring-necked Snake. 



17,889. Baboquivari Canon, Baboquivari Mountains, Pima County, 

 Ariz. 1910. Dr. H. A. Pilsbry. 



17,953. Otero Canon, Baboquivari Mountains, Pima County, 

 Ariz. 1910. Dr. H. A. Pilsbry. 



17,998. Sycamore Canon, Baboquivari Mountains, Pima County, 

 Ariz. October 6, 1910. Hebard and Rehn. 



Bascanion semilineatum Cope. Arizona Whip Snake. 



16.488. Carr Canon, Huachuca Mountains, Arizona. August, 

 1905. Dr. H. Skinner. 



Bascanion flagellnm Shaw. Whip Snake. 



17,896. Between Baboquivari Mountains and Las Gijas, Arizona. 

 1910. Dr. H. A. Pilsbry. 



Bascanion constrictor vennstum Baird and Girard. California Black Snake. 



17,852. Sisson, Siskiyou County, Cal. August 15, 1909. Hebard 

 and Rehn. 



Elaphe cMorosoma (Gantlier). Mexican Green Snake. 



17,895. Santa Rita Mountains, Arizona. 1910. Dr. H. A. 

 Pilsbry. 



17,909. Agua Caliente Canon, Santa Rita Mountains, Arizona, 

 6,000 feet. 1910. Dr. H. A. Pilsbry. 



The identity of these specimens was confirmed by Dr. Leonhard 

 Stejneger who kindly examined one of them. The species was not 

 previously known from north of the Mexican boundary. 

 Lampropeltis pyrrhomelsena Cope. Arizona Ringed Snake. 



16,531-3. Carr Canon, Huachuca Mountains, Arizona. August, 

 1905. Dr. H. Skinner. 




232 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



17,910. Madera Caiion, Santa Rita Mountains, Arizona. 1910. 

 Dr. H. A. Pilsbry. 



Pituophis oatenifer desertioola Stejneger. Desert Bull Snake. 



16,514. Carr Canon, Huachuca Mountains, Arizona. August, 1905. 

 Dr. H. Skinner. 



17,531. North side of Grand Caiion, Arizona. 1907. Dr. H. A. 

 Pilsbry. 



17,894. Las Gijas, Pima County, Ariz. 1907. Dr. H. A. Pilsbry. 



Thamnophis parietalis (Say). California Gartet Snake. 



17,851. Sisson, Siskiyou County, Cal. August 15, 1909. Hebard 

 and Rehn. 



Thamnophis eques (Reuss). Brown Garter Snake. 



17,997. Sycamore Canon, Baboquivari Mountains, Arizona. Octo- 

 ber 6, 1910. Hebard and Rehn. 



Elaps enryzanthus Kennicott. Sonora Coral Snake. 



17,932. Mineral Hill, 19 miles south of Tucson, Arizona. 1910. 

 Dr. H. A. Pilsbry. 



Crotalus oregonns Holbrook. Pacific Rattlesnake. 



17,848-50. Sugar Loaf, near Sisson, Siskiyou County, Cal. August 

 15, 1909. Hebard and Rehn. 



Crotalus molossus Baird and Girard. Black-tailed Rattlesnake 



16,530. Carr Caiion, Huachuca Mountains, Arizona. August, 1905. 

 Dr. H. Skinner. 



17,897. Walnut Canon, Santa Rita Mountains, Arizona, 6,000 feet. 

 1910. Dr. H. A. Pilsbry. 



Crotalus lepidns Kennicott. Green Rattlesnake, 



16,499-500. Carr Canon, Huachuca Mountains, Arizona. August, 

 1905. Dr. H. Skinner. 



17,903. Sheridan Canon, Big Hatchet Mountains, Grant County. 

 N. Mex. 1910. Dr. H. A. Pilsbry. 



17,921. Cochise Stronghold, Dragoon Mountains, Arizona. 1910. 

 Dr. H. A. Pilsbry. 



Dr. Skinner found them on the talus slide and they could often be 

 heard rattling underneath stones that had been disturbed. Unlike 

 most rattlesnakes, they invariably attempted to escape when ap- 

 proached. 



Crotalus prioei Van Denberg. Price's Rattlesnake. 



17,902. Northwest flank of Old Baldy, Santa Rita Mountains, 

 Arizona, 7,500 feet. 1910. Dr. H. A. Pilsbry. 



A typical specimen and the only one seen by any of the parties. 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 233 



April 4. 

 Mr. Charles Morris in the Chair. 



Twelve persons present. 



The Publication Committee reported the reception of a paper under 

 the title : 



"Some Collections of Reptiles and Batrachians from the Western 

 United States." By Witmer Stone (March 30). 



The death of Charles H. Pennypacker, a member, April 3, 1911, was 

 announced. 



Prof. Edgar T. Wherry made a communication on the Eleventh 

 International Geological Congress. (No abstract.) 



April 18. 

 Mr. F. Lynwood Garrison in the Chair. 



Thirty-six persons present. 



The Publication Committee reported the reception of a paper 

 entitled "Records and Descriptions of African Mantidse and Phasmidae 

 (Orthoptera)." By James A. G. Rehn (April 10). 



Spencer Trotter, M.D., made a communication on the men of 

 the Barma Grande and certain other prehistoric Europeans. (No 

 abstract.) 



Henry Skinner, M.D., presented to the Academy, on behalf of 

 Mrs. LeConte, an oil portrait of John L. LeConte, M.D., painted by 

 L. G. Seybert. 



George B. Wood, M.D., and David Gregg Metheny, M.D., were 

 elected members. 



The following were ordered to be printed: 



16 




234 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



THE POLTCH^TOTTS ANNELIDS DBEDOED BY THE XT. S. S. "ALBATBOSS" 



OFF THE COAST OF SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA IN 1904: 



III. EUPHROSYNIDiE TO GONIADIDiE. 



BY J. PERCY MOORE. 



The present paper is in continuation of two parts already published 

 under the same title and completes the Nereidiformia. Parts I and 

 II were published in these Proceedings for June, 1909, and April, 1910, 

 respectively. A fourth part dealing with the remaining Polychaeta 

 and completing the report is nearly ready for publication. The large 

 number of species that it has been necessary to name and describe 

 in this paper further illustrates the richness of the Polychaete fauna 

 of California and particularly of Monterey Bay and emphasizes the 

 incompleteness of our knowledge of the subject. 



EUPHROSYNID^. 



Four species of Euphrosyne, two of which are previously undescribed, 

 represent this family. 



Euphrosyne bicirrata Moore. 



Euphrosyne bicirrata Moore. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1905, pp. 532- 

 534, PI. XXXIV, figs. 8-12. 



Two specimens of 7.5 and 15 mm. long, each having 26 segments. 

 The setae are remarkably long, the notopodials often exceeding the 

 width of the body, and agree in character and distribution with the 

 type. There are six or seven pairs of gills on each somite, each con- 

 sisting of two filaments which are subequal on the larger specimen and 

 mostly distinctly unequal on the other; rarely one or two smaller 

 gills are added. The caruncle of the smaller specimen reaches to the 

 anterior border of V. Median tentacle exceeds two-thirds the caruncle, 

 the distal half being filamentous. Middle cirrus between second and 

 third gills from dorsum. 



Stations 4,339, off Point Loma Lighthouse, vicinity of San Diego, 

 241-369 fathoms, green mud; 4,549, Monterey Bay, off Point Pinos 

 Lighthouse, 56-57 fathoms, coarse sand, shells and rock. 



Euphrosyne hortensis Moore. 



Euphrosyne hortensis Moore. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1905, pp. 534- 

 536, PI. XXXIV, figs. 13-16. 



Two specimens of nine and ten millimeters long have 29 and 31 



segments, respectively. The caruncle reaches the middle of VL The 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 235 



branched and tufted gills form continuous rows of coarse filaments 

 behind the palisades of setae and occur in seven or eight pairs, of which 

 the lowermost, occupying the interramal space, and the uppermost 

 tend to split up. The middle cirrus is either opposite to the fourth 

 or fifth gill or opposite the interval between them. 



The setae are somewhat more slender than on the original specimens, 

 but agree with them in other respects. The dorsal ones project 

 conspicuously above the gills and more or less cover the.median dorsal 

 area. 



This species has much in common with E. heterobranchia Johnson, 

 but lacks the smooth, cleft notopodial setae of that species. 



Stations 4,463, Monterey Bay, Point Pinos Lighthouse, 48-111 

 fathoms, rocky; 4,552, same locality, 66-73 fathoms, green mud and 

 rocks. 



Euphrosyne dumosa sp. nov. PI. XV, figs. 12-17. 



A stout but little depressed species with conspicuous gills and 

 much of the aspect of an Arctian caterpillar. The type, having 

 34 segments, is 16 mm. long, with a maximum width, exclusive of the 

 setae, of 8 mm. and a maximum depth of about 4.8 mm., exclusive of 

 the gills and setae, and of 6 mm. including them. The cotype is 

 10 mm. long and 4 mm. wide with 32 segments. 



Prostomial caruncle long and narrow, the tip of the crest reaching 

 to or slightly beyond the furrow VI/VII, the base to the middle of VI 

 only; base and crest well-differentiated and separated by deep longi- 

 tudinal furrows; the crest smooth, not marked by distinct longitudinal 

 grooves, continued forward by a low ridge to the furrow separating 

 the palps. Eyes, two pairs; the dorsal immediately at the anterior 

 end of the caruncle on each side of the median tentacle, conspicuous, 

 black, round or slightly elongated; the ventral about one-half as 

 large, very close together between bases of peristomial parapodia. 

 Median tentacle situated at anterior end of caruncle, between dorsal 

 eyes and composed of a short cylindrical ceratophore about as long as 

 the basal width of the caruncle and a short style which is incomplete 

 in both specimens. Paired tentacles minute papillae immediately 

 ventral to ventral eyes. Palps smooth, flattened, ovate pads, sepa- 

 rated by a median fissure and continuous by their contracted anterior 

 ends with the peristomial parapodia. A low facial ridge runs forward 

 and downward to the fissure between the palpi. Mouth bounded by 

 palps in front, somite IV at the sides and the furrowed lip of V behind. 



Peristomium coalesced with prostomium and the anterior part 

 of the latter largely concealed between its forwardly directed para- 




236 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



podia. Segments 32 to 34, strongly differentiated ventrally by deep 

 furrows which are well-marked dorsally also, except in the median 

 area where they become obsolete in a series of biconvex intersegmental 

 areas. Median naked field about one-fifth total width of dorsum, the 

 parapodial areas densely covered with rows of branchiae and setae and 

 occupying the rest of the dorsum. Ventrally a slight neural groove 

 runs from the posterior lip to the pygidium. Pygidium minute, 

 situated between the last pair of posteriorly directed parapodia and 

 bearing a pair»of appressed vertical lamellar anal cirri with thickened 

 borders. 



Parapodia of the usual form, the notopodia sessile and dorsal; 

 neuropodia lateral, slightly projecting, low lamellae, overlapping the 

 ventral end of the notopodia from behind. Cirii usually about equal 

 to gills in length, but sometimes slightly longer or shorter, rather stout, 

 gently tapered. Notocirrus usually the shortest of the three, reaching 

 only slightly beyond the middle line and situated slightly mediad of the 

 setae palisade and a little anterior to the branchiae. Middle cirrus in 

 line with notocirrus and opposite interval between third and fourth 

 or fourth and fifth gills from the dorsum. Neurocirrus similar, situated 

 just within the postero-ventral margin of the neuropodial fascicle 

 of setae. 



Branchiae borne on all setigerous segments, usually ten (but sometimes 

 nine or eleven) pairs on middle segments, the three ventralmost in the 

 interramal area much crowded and often in actual contact or even 

 with their stems partially coalesced. Each gill (PI. XV, fig. 12) 

 consists of a well-defined, stout stem bifurcated into a pair of nearly 

 symmetrical trunks which divide dichotomously three or four times 

 and end in rather slender, cylindroid, pointed filaments often half the 

 total height of the gill. The angles of bifurcation are wide and the 

 branching spreading in a plane so that the twigs of neighboring gills 

 intercross. In the oral region the number of gills is somewhat reduced, 

 and on somite I there are only six pairs with more or less coalesced 

 bases and rather short filaments often thickened in the middle. The 

 latter condition sometimes appears on other gills, but usually the 

 filaments are extended and of regular diameter. 



Notopodial setae (PI. XV, figs. 13-15) arranged in a long palisade of 

 three rows running the entire length of the gill series. All are hollow, 

 brittle, calcareous, translucent and white, or the granular contents 

 of some of the larger ones slightly yellowish. All are relatively short 

 and few project beyond the ends of the gills. Serrate bifid setae are 

 unusually numerous and appear not only to make up the anterior 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 237 



series completely, but to enter largely into the formation of the other 

 rows, especially at the dorsal end. Their ends have the form shown 

 in figures 15, 15a, both forks being gently curved, tapered and strongly 

 serrated along the inner borders, the longer being about twice as long 

 as the shorter and without a widened region. Such setae appear to 

 be absent from I, but are alike on other segments and are usually* 

 distinctly shorter than the gills. They seldom show any trace of 

 internal annulation or cameration. Most of the setse of the second 

 and third rows are of the simple spurred form (PI. XV, figs. 13, 14) 

 with nearly straight, smooth tips, those of the second row being longer 

 and stouter, many of them reaching beyond the gills, those of the 

 third row shorter than the serrate setae. At the extreme ventral end 

 of the palisade is a small compact tuft of much shorter setae with very 

 short tips. 



Neuropodial setae (PI. XV, figs. 16 and 17) arise in several rows 

 from an elliptical area. Those in the dorsal part of the bundle are 

 nearly twice as long as the neurocirrus, but ventijally they become 

 shorter until the most ventral are scarcely one-third as long as the 

 cirrus. They have the general form of the smooth notopodial cirri, 

 but are rather more slender and have longer, more curved ends and 

 longer spurs. 



Except for a pair of dusky spots on each segment of the median 

 dorsal field and some dusky suffusions elsewhere, both specimens are 

 colorless. 



Stations 4,410, off Santa Catalina Island, 178-195 fathoms, gray 

 sand, gravel and rocks (type) ; 4,470, off Point Pinos Lighthouse, 

 Monterey Bay, 61-69 fathoms, hard gray sand. 

 Euphrosyne limbata sp. nov. PI. XV, flgs. 7-11. 



The single strongly curved specimen has a length of 17 mm., a 

 maximum width of 7 mm., and a depth of 3 mm. ; segments 36. 



Prostomial caruncle short, beginning at posterior border of II and 

 reaching barely beyond caudal border of IV; low, depressed rather 

 than compressed, the base narrow and overlapped laterally by the 

 spreading crest which reaches slightly beyond the base posteriorly 

 also. Eyes two pairs, the dorsal black, somewhat elongated, slightly 

 larger than the ventral, situated close together at the sides of the 

 anterior end of the caruncle; ventral eyes smaller, nearly touching 

 at median line, situated at ventral end of a low ridge which continues 

 the caruncle forward and ventrad. Median tentacle situated as usual 

 at anterior end of caruncle between dorsal eyes, consisting of a stout 

 cylindrical ceratophore about one-third length of caruncle and a 




238 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



minute conical style about one-half as long as the ceratophore. Paired 

 tentacles minute papillae immediately ventro-lateral of the ventral 

 eyes. Palps smaller than usual, irregularly ovate with narrower 

 prolongations not continuous with t^e peristomial parapodia, but 

 entering the cleft between them. Mouth bounded by rugous lips 

 formed laterally by III and IV and posteriorly by IV and V. 



Segments 36, all well defined, especially ventrally where they are 

 superficially wrinkled. Neural furrow slight, median dorsal naked 

 field slightly exceeding one-fifth of total width, the triangular inter- 

 segmental areas rather obscure. Caudal cirri short and thick, each 

 folded longitudinally on itself so that the lamellar form is obscured. 



Parapodia as in E. dumosa. Notocirrus arising just dorsad (mediad) 

 and slightly caudad of the notopodial setae, rather short, simple, 

 tapered and reaching slightly beyond the middle line. Neurocirrus 

 similar, arising just within ventro-posterior portion of setae fascicle. 

 Intermediate cirrus situated about three-fifths length of setae palisade 

 from its dorsal end or at least ventral to its middle, opposite interval 

 between sixth and seventh or fifth and sixth gills from the dorsum 

 and between the sefse palisade and series of gills. 



Branchiae (PI. XV, figs. 7, 8), usually twelve pairs on each side of 

 middle segments, but somewhat fewer toward the ends of the body. 

 The nine dorsalmost form a straight row well behind the setae and 

 cirri, the three lowermost occupying the interramal space and usually 

 separated from the others by a short interval. Each gill has a very 

 short trunk soon divided into two, each of which is again divided 

 dichotomously about four or five times to form thirty or more long 

 terminal filaments. All parts of the gill are slender and the terminal 

 twigs so numerous and long that they form a dense interlacing mass 

 between the rows of setae, the longest of which, however, rise well 

 above and shelter them. 



Setae all colorless and transpareiit and of one type, none being 

 serrate or strictly bifid. Notopodials (PI. XV, fig. 9) erect in a narrow 

 palisade of three irregular rows, those of anterior and posterior rows 

 small and less than the gills in length; those of the middle row are 

 fully twice as long and thick and rise conspicuously above the gills. 

 All are alike hollow, calcareous and brittle, with rather long, slightly 

 curved, smooth tips strongly annulated or camerated within and 

 bearing a prominent, subterminal, divergent spur. Neuropodial 

 setae are of the same type and those in the ventral part of the bundle 

 (PI. XV, fig. 10) differ little except in length from the longer notopodial 

 setae. Dorsal neuropodials (PI. XV, fig. 11), however, are much 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 239 



longer and more slender, with very acute, straight tips and, as stated 

 above, project laterally as very prominent fringes. 



No color remains. 



The only specimen comes from station 4,420, off San Nicholas Island, 

 32-33 fathoms, fine gray sand. 



This species is evidently closely related to E. maculata Horst from 

 Timor, but lacks serrated, ringent dorsal setae. Compared with 

 E. dumosa, it appears remarkably broad and depressed, besides differing 

 in many technical characters. 



AMPHINOMID^. 

 Chloeia pinnata sp. nov. PI. XV, figs. 1-6. 



A very pretty, small and slender species of a slightly depressed, 

 fusiform shape, tapering most toward the caudal end. The type is 

 26 mm. long, 6.5 mm. wide at XI, where it is 5.5 mm. deep, and has a 

 spread of setae of 12 mm.; segments 26. Other specimens vary in 

 length from 7 to 30 mm. and have from 17 to 28 segments. 



Prostomium coalesced with peristomium, its broadly truncate 

 anterior border produced laterally round the peristomial parapodia; 

 ventrally it appears as a tumid elliptical pad divided by a median 

 longitudinal cleft and reaching the mouth; dorsally somewhat 

 T-shaped, the broad anterior end extending laterally, while posteriorly 

 it is contracted between the parapodia of somites I and II. Caruncle 

 arises from the prostomium and reaches to the anterior or occasionally 

 to the posterior border of IV, but is entirely free from these segments, 

 over which it passes like a flowing plume. Two longitudinal furrows 

 divide it into a compressed crest with accordion-plaited sides and 

 smaller basal ridge also divided by transverse furrows into twelve or 

 thirteen deep crenulations, each marked, like the crest folds, with a 

 small brown spot. Eyes two pairs, black, equally conspicuous, but 

 the anterior slightly the larger, situated at sides of anterior end of 

 caruncle, the anterior slightly in advance, the posterior slightly behind 

 the anterior border. Median tentacle arising from a low, smooth 

 elevation coalesced with anterior end of caruncle, the style moderately 

 slender, tapered, smooth, suberect, about one-fourth longer than the 

 caruncle, but fragile and seldom complete. Paired tentacles sessile, 

 in contact between anterior eyes, similar in form to median tentacle 

 and about one-half as long. 



Peristomium and its parapodia completely coalesced with prosto- 

 mium, not appearing as a distinct segment. Somite II well-differen- 

 tiated, divided ventrally by the m.outh and forming the rugous lateral 




240 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



lips. Mouth bounded behind by III which is united with IV to form 

 the rugous posterior lip. Remaining segments few, large, distinct, 

 strongly differentiated by deep furrows below and more shallow ones 

 above; lateral borders deeply and coarsely serrated; entire ventral 

 surface and median dorsal (interbranchial) field quite smooth. Seg- 

 ments increase in size to XI, then gradually decrease to the small 

 bilobed pygidium which bears a pair of thick, truncate, cylindrical, 

 appressed cirri about as long as the lateral tentacles. 



Parapodia simple but rather prominent, lateral swellings producing 

 the coarse lateral serrations, biramous, the notopodial and neuropodial 

 tubercles widely separated and each bearing a large setigerous sac 

 with elliptical orifice and an eversible rim, the notopodial orifice facing 

 laterad and slightly dorsad and caudad, the neuropodial laterad and 

 caudad. Toward the ends the parapodia become smaller and the 

 setae tufts gradually reduced; the anterior ones shift toward the dorsum, 

 the first or peristomial foot being strictly dorsal; approaching the 

 caudal end the setae fascicles are directed more acd more caudad. 



Notocirri arise at the caudo-dorsal border of the notopodial tuft 

 of setae and reach to the base of the corresponding cirrus of the opposite 

 side or on posterior segments beyond it. Cirrophores long, slender, 

 terete, nearly as long as the segments to which they belong; styles 

 flagelliform, three to three and one-half times as long as the cirriphores. 

 Neurocirri arise within the lips of the setse sacs on the ventral side of 

 the neuropodial fascicle ; they consist of short and obscure cirrophores 

 and long, slender, fragile, flagelliform styles equalling the notocirri on 

 middle segments, but diminishing in size posteriorly and also anterior 

 to V. The first three parapodia have the cirri relatively short and 

 stout, the notocirrus considerably shorter than the neurocirrus. They 

 also possess a third much smaller cirrus situated immediately dorsal 

 to the notocirrus and probably representing the gills ; they are similar 

 to the notocirri and that on the peristomium is longest. 



Branchiae begin on somite IV and continue, gradually diminishing 

 in size, to the caudal end. They arise on the posterior border of the 

 dorsum of their segments, separated by about one-third of the total 

 width, and lie nearly flat on the dorsum, reaching caudad over the 

 succeeding segment so that they are slightly imbricated. Form 

 broadly suboval, lamellar, bipinnatifid; composed on middle seg- 

 ments of a tapered and somewhat sinuous axis bearing alternately 

 on each side about eight simply pinnate branches diminishing in size 

 and complexity distally, where the series is completed by two or three 

 simple pinnae. Toward the ends of the body they become smaller, 

 with a diminished number of pinnae. 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 241 



Proboscis protruded on many specimens to varying degrees and 

 presenting very different aspects. On the type it is a short truncate 

 cylinder 3.5 mm. in diameter and equally long, divided by three 

 furrows into as many zones: first, a soft, somewhat inflated basal 

 zone which, because of the incompleteness of the furrows in a narrow 

 medial dorsal region, here encroaches on the other rings to the end of 

 the proboscis; second, a narrower, firm and muscular middle ring and, 

 third, a still shorter terminal muscular disk of a deep brown color with 

 a central rugous area and a slight vertical furrow dividing it to the 

 margins. On other specimens the bas.al annulus is much larger and 

 more inflated, the terminal disk is sometimes folded together along 

 the vertical furrow in partial retraction, and sometimes in complete 

 extension has the rugous area protruded as a prominent rounded mass 

 turned toward the dorsum to conceal the mouth from below and 

 marked by a slight median furrow and numerous, slightly sinuous, 

 transverse raised lines. Still other specimens have this distal region 

 much more extended to a length exceeding all the rest of the proboscis, 

 and bearing the large orifice at the end of the flat, smooth and soft 

 dorsal part, the deep spoon-shaped or ventricose sides and venter 

 bemg completely formed by the rugous area. 



Setae all nearly or quite colorless, tubular, with soft, granular con- 

 tents, very brittle. When massed the setae are sometimes distinctly 

 yellow and those of some of the younger specimens exhibit a beautiful 

 satiny luster. Notopodials in somewhat whorled, suberect tufts, 

 becoming longer and more recumbent toward the caudal end. They 

 are rather stout, slightly curved and tapered to rather blunt points, 

 below which, at a varying distance, is a spur, conspicuous on the more 

 ventral setae (PI. XV, fig. 1) which are truly bifid, nearly obsolete on 

 dorsal setae (PI. XV, fig. 3). Most notosetae of middle segments are 

 smooth or nearly so, but some (fig. 2) exhibit slight serrations, and this 

 may be the normal state of unworn setae. Posteriorly the setae become 

 longer and usually lack the spur; anteriorly contrary changes occur. 

 Neuropodial setae much more numerous, slender and elongated, form- 

 ing very dense tufts which spread laterad, but posteriorly more caudad. 

 Posterior setae are more elongated and truly capillary, but on some 

 examples they exceed the body width, even on the middle parapodia. 

 They are of the same type as the notopodials, but the spur is close to 

 the tip and small or obsolete (PI. XV, figs. 4, 5). Toward the ends 

 of the body modifications similar to those affecting the notosetae 

 occur (PI. XV, fig. 6). 



Color. Probably richly colored in life, but most of the preserved 




242 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



specimens are faded and colorless except, for a wedge-shaped brown 

 or purple spot in front of the lateral tentacles, a rich madder purple 

 coloration of the notocirri and a brown spot at the end of each anal 

 cirrus; others show traces of a more extensive purple coloration, 

 especially on posterior segments. The under parts, including the 

 neurocirri, are always colorless, as are the tentacles and one to three 

 or four pairs of the anterior notocirri. Not infrequently also, the 

 color is lost more or less completely from the styles of IV, V and VI, 

 but the cirrophores always retain the deep purple color. A specimen 

 from station 4,416 is of a fine -rosy color above with a median series 

 of white oval spots. Several specimens from station 4,454 have the 

 notocirri brown and the ventral surface, proboscis and rarely portions 

 of the dorsal surface spotted with sharply defined, quadrate, brown 

 spots. Sometimes only three or four occur on the entire ventral 

 surface, in which case some are likely to occur on the dorsum; some- 

 times they are much more numerous and in places crowded or even 

 coalesced and rarely the spots are X-shaped. 



Chlocia pinnata is one of the most abundantly represented and 

 generally distributed species included in this collection. There are 

 in all nearly three hundred specimens, about half of which came from 

 stations 4,460, 4,475 and 4,552 and about twenty each from stations 

 4,349, 4,480 and 4,485, all of these being muddy bottoms. No less 

 than ninety-seven were taken at station 4,475, from among which the 

 type was selected. 



The full list is as follows : Stations 4,309, Point Loma Lighthouse, 

 vicinity of San Diego, 67-78 fathoms, fine sand, shells and rock; 

 4,310, same locality, 71-75 fathoms, fine sand and green mud; 4,322, 

 off Point La Jolla, vicinity of San Diego, 110-199 fathoms, green mud 

 and shells; 4,332, off Point Loma Lighthouse, 62-183 fathoms, gray 

 and black sand with rocks; 4,339, same locality, 168-254 fathoms, 

 green mud, fine sand and rock; 4,349, same locality, 75-134 fathoms, 

 green mud and fine sand; 4,364, same locality, 101-129 fathoms, 

 gray sand, mud and rock; 4,365, same locality, 130-158 fathoms, 

 green mud; 4,366, same locality and bottom, 176-181 fathoms; 4,416, 

 off Santa Barbara Island, 323-448 fathoms, dark green mud and rock ; 

 4,418, same locality, 238-310 fathoms, dark mud, sand and rock; 

 4,420, off San Nicolas Island, 32-33 fathoms, fine gray sand; 4,423, 

 same locality, 216-339 fathoms, gray sand with black pebbles and 

 shells; 4,454, Monterey Bay, Point Pinos Lighthouse, 65-71 fathoms, 

 green mud, sand and gravel; 4,460, same locality, 55-167 fathoms, 

 green mud and gravel ; 4,464, same locality, 36-51 fathoms, soft dark 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 243 



gray mud; 4,475, same locality, 85-142 fathoms, soft green mud; 

 4,480, Monterey Bay, off Santa Cruz Lighthouse, 53-76 fathoms, dark 

 green mud and sand; 4,485, same locality, 39-108 fathoms, soft green 

 mud and sand; 4,510, Monterey Bay, off Point Pinos Lighthouse, 

 91-184 fathoms, gray mud; 4,522, same locality, 130-149 fathoms, 

 gray sand and shells; 4,523, same locality, 75-108 fathoms, soft dark 

 mud; 4,552, same locality, 66-73 fathoms, green mud and rocks; 

 4,553, same locality, 65-74 fathoms, rock. 



NEPHTHYDID^. 

 Nephthys oseoa (Fabricius) Oersted. 



Nephthys caeca, Ehlers, Die Borstenwurmer, 1869, pp. 588-617, Taf . XXIII, 

 figs. 10-34; Wiren, Vega Expeditionens, II, pp. 392-397, Taf. 30 and 31. 



After puzzling a long time over the many specimens of Nepthhys in 

 this collection, I have been unable to come to any satisfactory conclu- 

 sion regarding the number of species actually represented, and have, 

 therefore, tentatively begged the question and followed Wiren in 

 listing all of the forms represented under the above name. As a 

 matter of fact, scarcely a single specimen can be confidently said to be 

 typical N. cceca, though a number differ from it only intangibly. 

 Most of them, in having the neuropodial postsetal lip much larger 

 than the corresponding part of the notopodium, resemble N . hombergi 

 Aud. and M. E. {= N. assmi72s Oersted, Malmgren). Here belong 

 especially those from stations 4,443, 4,462, 4,482, 4,485, 4,510, 4,523 

 and 4,548, all in Monterey Bay. One lot (station 4,436), in the almost 

 total absence of parapodial lamellse, approaches very closely A'', ciliata 

 (Miiller) Rathke and has the rami widely separated as in N. incisa 

 Malmgren but all of them have more segments than the latter. 

 Specimens from stations 4,306 and 4,549 also approach this type, but 

 the lamella? are better developed. Two small specimens (station 

 4,482) have the long setae and long involute gills of N. malmgreni Theel 

 { = N. longisetosa Malmgren non Oersted). Examples from many of 

 the other stations present intermediate characters, and it is for this 

 reason that I do not here separate the forms as I have done previously, 

 though I am by no means convinced that more than one species may 

 not be represented. 



The specimens vary in size from little more than 1 mm. wide to 8 

 and 9 mm. wide, the largest invariably incomplete. Many of the 

 smaller ones show a conspicuous color pattern in the form of an irregular 

 brown or dusky spot on the prostomium and bars of the same color 

 across many of the anterior segments. 




244 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



Stations 4,306, off Point Loma Lighthouse, vicinity of San Diego, 

 207-497 fathoms, green mud, fine sand and gravel; 4,310, same 

 locality, 71-75 fathoms, green mud and fine sand; 4,349, same locality, 

 81-134 fathoms, green mud and fine sand; 4,364, same locality, 

 101-129 fathoms, gray sand, mud and rock; 4,431, off Santa Rosa 

 Island, 38-45 fathoms, varied bottom; 4,436 off San Miguel Island, 

 264-271 fathoms, green mud; 4,443, off Point Pinos Lighthouse, 

 Monterey Bay, 32-37 fathoms, fine gray sand; 4,462, same locality, 

 161-265 fathoms, green mud; 4,464, same locality, 36-51 fathoms, 

 soft dark gray mud; 4,475, same locality, 58-85 fathoms, soft green 

 mud; 4,480, off Santa Cruz Lighthouse, 53-76 fathoms, dark green 

 mud, sand; 4,482, same locality, 43-44 fathoms, soft green mud; 

 4,485, same locality, 39-108 fathoms, soft green mud, sand; 4,510, 

 off Point Pinos Lighthouse, 91-156 fathoms, gray mud; 4,522, same 

 locality, 130-149 fathoms, gray sand and shells; 4,523, same locality, 

 75-108 fathoms, soft dark mud; 4,526, same locality, 204-239 fathoms, 

 soft gray mud ; 4,538, same locality, 795-871 fathoms, hard gray sand ; 



4.548, same locaHty, 46-54 fathoms, coarse sand, shells and rock; 



4.549, same locality and bottom, 56-57 fathoms. 



NEREIDS. , 



The NereidsB are represented less richly than in similar collections 

 along the more northern shores of the Pacific side of North America. 

 The absence of any of the large species of Alitta is especially note- 

 worthy. 



Nereis procera Ehlers. PI. XV, fig. 18. 



Nereis procera Ehlers, Die Borstenwiirmer, 1868, pp. 557-559; Taf. XXIII, 

 fig. 2. 



Represented by a number of small specimens, 21 to 45 mm. long, 

 in the atokous phase and all sexually immature, which agree closely 

 with Ehlers' description and also with larger mature examples already 

 reported in these Proceedings for 1909 from the littoral zone at San 

 Diego and Monterey Bay. The jaws and paragnaths conform gen- 

 erally to Ehlers' description, but group V may be absent or represented 

 by either one or two paragnaths and the band VII-VIII varies much 

 in width. The number of segments varies from 60 to 75. 



The setae, studied on one specimen, are disposed as follows: On 

 anterior parapodia the notopodium bears six or eight homogomphs 

 with slender "fish-bone" appendages, the neuropodial supra-acicular 

 fascicle contains foui or five similar homogomphs and usually two 

 stout heterogomphs with short, scarcely falcate appendages, and the 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 245 



neuropodial subacicular fascicle two or three homogomphs and five or 

 six heterogomphs like the above, together with a few heterogomphs 

 with longer appendages. On middle segments the number of homo- 

 gomphs increases, but the heterogomphs become stouter and fewer. 

 By about XXXIX the slender notopodials are replaced by two stout 

 homogomphs with short, stout, fusiform, nearly buried appendages. 

 A specimen from station 4,425 has the parapodia longer with more 

 pointed lingulse than usual and the characteristic notopodial setae 

 apparently wanting, but in all other respects, including the paragnaths, 

 is typical. 



Several from station 4,496 have the color pattern well-preserved. 

 The anterior end is ashy, marked with brown spots and streaks gradually 

 fading out and disappearing at about XVIII, beyond which the cuticle 

 exhibits a conspicuous iridescence on a pigmentless integument. A 

 large triangular spot (formed of a central and two lateral lines) occupies 

 nearly the entire dorsum of the prostomium with its base resting on 

 the eyes. The segments are marked by a central transverse dash, 

 a pair of paramedian dashes near the anterior end, a similar pair near 

 the posterior end, and a pair of lateral spots. On the first few segments 

 the anterior and posterior pairs of spots tend to unite into two lines. 



Of greater interest are five male specimens in the epitokous phase, 

 hitherto unknown, taken at station 4,355. All are small, varying 

 from 17 mm. and 54 segments to 28 mm. and 67 segments. In the 

 latter the anterior region is 10.6 mm. long. In all cases the anterior 

 region has 14 setigerous segments besides the apodous peristomium. 



Prostomium of the general form seen in the atokous phase, but 

 rather shorter and more broadly rounded anteriorly and strongly 

 bent ventrad so that the anterior eyes lie rather more than half beneath 

 the posterior. Eyes of each side coalesced, but not especially enlarged, 

 each being little more than one-fourth the prostomial width. Both 

 have large lenses, the ventral looking ventrad and laterad, the dorsal 

 dorsad and laterad. Tentacles about three- fourths as long as prosto- 

 mium, but ventrad and regularly tapered. Palps directed ventrad, 

 short, scarcely more than one-half length of prostomium, basal seg- 

 ment stout, distal minute. 



Peristomium obscurely biannulate with a narrow, feebly separated 

 anterior ring. Tentacular cirri all short, rather distinctly but irregu- 

 larly articulated; posterior dorsal reaches to V, anterior dorsal to 

 beyond middle of III, and the two very short ventral cirri scarcely 

 beyond the anterior border of II. On the largest specimen, which 

 has the anterior segments more extended, the cirri are relatively 

 shorter. 




246 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



Pygidium minute, top-shaped, bearing a pair of rudimentary para- 

 podia, two pairs of short ventral subanal cirri and a whorl of slender 

 papillae. 



Parapodia of anterior region similar in general characters and setae 

 to atokous t3q)e of corresponding segments. Notopodia of first seven 

 with basal half much enlarged, the distal portion remaining filiform, 

 but not strongly bent. Neurocirri of first five setigerous segments 

 also thickened at the base. All remaining parapodia are modified to 

 the natatorial type, there being no caudal region, but the serrated 

 notocirri continue to about XLV only, behmd which they are smooth. 

 The form of the complex lamellae and lingulae is best understood by 

 reference to figure 18 (PI. XV). All setae are of the usual natatorial 

 type and none of the peculiar setae so characteristic of the middle 

 notopodia of atokous individuals are present. 



One specimen has the proboscis protruded and exhibits the para- 

 gnaths and jaws in characteristic arrangement. 



Stations 4,355, San Diego Harbor, surface; 4,405, off San Clemente 

 Island, 654-704 fathoms, green mud; 4,415, off Santa Barbara Island, 

 302-638 fathoms, green mud; 4,417, off Santa Barbara Island, 29 

 fathoms, fine yellow sand and rock; 4,420, off San Nicolas Island, 

 32-33 fathoms, fine gray sand; 4,421, same locality, 229-298 fathoms, 

 gray mud and rock; 4,425, same locality, 1,100-1,084 fathoms, green 

 mud, fine sand and Globigerina; 4,427, off Santa Cruz Island, 447-510 

 fathoms, black mud and rock; 4,431, off Santa Rosa Island, 38-41 

 fathoms, varied bottom; 4,496, off Santa Cruz Lighthouse, Monterey 

 Bay, 10 fathoms, fine gray sand and rock; 4,531, off Point Pinos 

 Lighthouse, 26-28 fathoms, fine gray sand, rock. 



Nereis pauoidentata Moore. 



Nereis paucidentata Moore. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1903, pp. 430, 431, 

 PI. XXIV, figs. 28-30. 



A single small imperfect specimen fromstation4,397,Lat.33°10'15"N. 

 Long. 121° 42' 15" W., 2,196 fathoms, gray mud. This is the first 

 record of this species south of the Gulf of Georgia and the bathymetrical 

 range is even more extended from 270 fathoms. The species is not 

 uncommon in Alaskan waters. 



Nereis cyclurus Harrington. 



Nereis cyclurus Harrington, Trans. N. Y. Acad. Sci., XVI, 1897, p. 214. 



Two fine specimens showing faintly the annular bands of color. 

 "Commensal in Natica shell with hermit crab." 



Station 4,560, off Santa Cruz Lighthouse, Monterey Bay, 10-12 

 fathoms, fine gray sand and rock. 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 247 



Platynereis agassizi (Ehlers). PI. XV, fig. 19. 



Nereis agassizi Ehlers, Die Borstenwiirmer, 1868, pp. 542-546, Taf . XXIII, 

 fig. 1. 



Besides several atokous individuals, two of which (station 4,559) 

 contain eggs, a large number of sexually mature epitokous examples 

 were taken at station 4,355 by means of a surface electric light and 

 dip-nets. Of the latter 83 were males and only 5 females. As the 

 latter have never been described, a brief description is here added. 



In general appearance they agree closely with the males, but average 

 somewhat larger, from 21 to 33 mm. long. The two regions of the 

 body of the two extremes measure, respectively, 5 and 16 mm. and 

 11 and 22 mm. long, and the segments number from 93 (28 + 65) to 

 131 (28 + 103), the anterior region of the female comprising, therefore, 

 seven more segments than that of the male, which has 21. One 

 female has only 27. 



The color is generally pale and faded, but shows indications of 

 transverse brown lines and posteriorly more distinct transverse rows 

 of spots. Some of the specimens exhibit the same yellow color an- 

 teriorly as shown by the males, but usually much paler. 



Prostomium almost exactly as in the males, the eyes, coalesced on 

 each side, scarcely p^ceptibly smaller, the palps and tentacles turned 

 almost as markedly ventrad. Peristomial cirri, so far as preserved, 

 have the same proportions as in the males and, also, as in the males, 

 are easily detached, so that many of them are wanting. One specimen, 

 however, in which all are present, has two dorsal cirri nearly equal, 

 both reaching XV, and the anterior ventral reaching to VI. There 

 is a very short caudal region of ten or twelve segments with few or no 

 swimming setffi and a short, tapermg, tubular pygidium often con- 

 stricted into two rings, quite different from that of the male in that it 

 bears four cirriform papillae in place of the whorl existing in the latter. 



The first five (on the smallest specimen four) notocirri only are 

 thickened and the slender distal end much less abruptly hooked than 

 on the males. First four neuropodia similar to those of the males. 

 Parapodia and seta? of anterior region also as in the males. Posterior 

 parapodia differ from those of the males chiefly in the total absence 

 from both notocirri and neurocirri of the sense organs which cause 

 them to appear serrated, the cirri in the females being therefore quite 

 smooth, simple and tapered. 



Most of the specimens have shed the greater part of their eggs, but 

 one remains filled with them as far forward as the tenth setigerous 

 somite, inclusive, and a few have escaped into more anterior somites. 




248 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



They crowd the basal part of the parapodia as well as the coelom. 



The character of the mature eggs is shown in figure 19, PI. XV. • 



Stations 4,346, off Point Loma Lighthouse, 46-50 fathoms, dark 



green mud and fine sand; 4,347, same locality, 55-58 fathoms, fine 



gray sand (both epitoke and atoke); 4,355, San Diego Harbor, surface 



(many epitokes); 4,420, off San Nicolas Island, 32-33 fathoms, fine 



gray sand; 4,422, same locality, 31-32 fathoms, gray sand and shells; 



4,559, off Point Pinos Lighthouse, Monterey Bay, 8-22 fathoms, fine 



gray sand. 



EUNIOIDiE. 



Eunice (Eriphyle) paloloides Moore. 



Eunice (Eriphyle) paloloides Moore, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1909, 

 pp 246-249, PI. VII, figs. 5-7. 



A much broken and macerated female specimen containing a few eggs 

 in the posterior region. The sexual region begins at about segment 

 CLXXXV. The tentacles and branchise are somewhat shorter than 

 those of the type, but this probably results from the macerated con- 

 dition of the specimen. In all other features studied it agrees with the 

 type. 



Station 4,420, off San Nicolas Island, 32-33 fathoms, fine gray sand. 

 Eunice multipeotinata sp. nov. PI. XV, figs. 20-23. 



A fine, robust species which reaches a considerable size. The type 

 is 205 mm. long with a maximum width of body of 7.5 mm. and be- 

 tween the setae tips of 13 mm. Number of segments 181. Other 

 complete specimens vary from 47 mm. long, 2 mm. wide, with 87 

 segments to 203 mm. long and 9 mm. wide. One 195 mm. long and 

 7 mm. wide has 177 segments. Incomplete specimens range all the 

 way from 1 min. to 11 i?lm. in width. 



Prostomium in all except the smallest specimens retracted and 

 deeply sunken into the peristomial collar to the tentacles; deeply 

 incised and bilobed anteriorly to form the somewhat divergent, short, 

 thick, bluntly rounded palps, slightly divided by a shallow transverse 

 groove into a larger ventral and a smaller dorsal segment. Tentacles 

 in a crowded transverse row, each with a small indistinct ceratophore ; 

 the styles more or less strongly and irregularly annulated or distinctly 

 articulated; on the smaller specimens the median has about seven 

 articulations and reaches to VII, the inner paired have but five articu- 

 lations and reach to IV or V and the outer paired four articulations 

 and reach III. Large specimens have shorter tentacles which have 

 evidently worn away at the tips. Eyes always large and conspicuous, 

 situated immediately behind the outer paired tentacles. 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 249 



Peristomium very large, fully as long as the three succeeding seg- 

 ments and forming a prominent collar, into which the prostomium is 

 retracted, most deeply in the larger specimens; on each side a shallow- 

 notch, below which it is produced forward more prominently to form 

 a slightly crenulated lower lip with concave border. Somite II also 

 apodous, not exceeding one-third length of peristomium with which 

 it is coalesced at the sides. Nuchal cirri similar to cephalic tentacles 

 but more slender, reaching to or nearly to the cephalic border of 

 the prostomium. Metastomial podous segments well-defined, very 

 regular, simple, 10-14 times as wide as long anteriorly, not over 8 

 times as wide as long posteriorly, strongly arched above, flattened, 

 with neural furrow below\ They increase in width gradually to about 

 XL, then taper gently caudad. 



Pygidium a short ring with a slight marginal thickening and bearing 

 a pair of slender, little-tapered, stiff and smooth. cirri as long as the 

 last six segments and arising close together below the large anus. 

 Immediately below and concealed by these is a second pair of minute 

 and inconspicuous cirri. 



Parapodia (PI. XV, fig. 20) of simple form and exhibiting the 

 changes in position and proportions usual in the genus. Notocirri 

 four or five, or posteriorly (where the parapodia become shortened) 

 even more, times as long as the neuropodia, slightly tapered and 

 smooth or very slightly wrinkled, becoming much more slender pos- 

 teriorly. Neurocirri prominent anteriorly, with thick, swollen, ovate 

 bases and short, thick, cylindroid styles. ' Farther back the basal 

 part is gradually reduced and finally becomes minute and the style 

 becomes first short and conical and then slender and tapered, but 

 always considerably exceeds the neuropodium in length. 



Acicula all very dark brown and opake except that the tips are 

 often pale; the neuropodial three or anteriorly sometimes two, pro- 

 jecting from the acicular tubercle at the dorsal level of the fascicle of 

 simple setae. They are simple, tapering rods with rather acute points 

 on anterior parapodia and blunt, often bent or somewhat knobbed 

 ends on posterior parapodia where they become very stout. Noto- 

 podial acicula^a fascicle of slender brown fibers passing into the base 

 of the notocirrus in connection with a heavy mass of brown pigment. 



With the exception of the stout crochets which are brown, the setae 

 are colorless or pale yellow. Three kinds occur on all segments. Simple, 

 slender, wingless capillary setae form a small dorsal tuft in connection 

 with the acicula. Among the bases of the capillary sette are delicate 

 pectinate setae with slightly curved ends provided with a few indistinct 

 17 




250 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



teeth and a marginal mucron (PI. XV, fig. 22). Most numerous are 

 the compound setae (fig. 21) which are arranged in about six rows, are 

 pale yellow, with curved and distally thickened shafts and short, 

 strongly hooked, and bidentate appendages with a delicate guard 

 finely denticulated on the margin. The last become larger caudad. 

 Beginning at about XXVII two (sometimes one) stout crochets appear 

 projecting prominently obliquely from the neuropodium ventral to 

 the compound setae; they are slightly curved, with stout principal 

 tooth and smaller more distal accessory tooth and provided with a 

 split guard (fig. 23). 



Branchiae strictly unilateral pectinate throughout (PI. XV, fig. 20), 

 consisting of a tapered main stem arising from the base of the neuro- 

 cirrus on its dorsal side and curving gently up the sides of the body, 

 but remaining erect, leaving the dorsum uncovered; filaments arising 

 nearly at right angles to the stem in a close rank and lying nearly 

 parallel, slender, the longest not exceeding two-thirds the length of 

 the notocirrus and the main trunk, exclusive of the terminal filament 

 into which it is prolonged, not much greater. On the type the gills 

 begin on somite IX with seven filaments, attain the maximum of 

 twelve filaments and retain this number, with occasionally one or two 

 more for a great many segments, then undergo gradual reduction 

 posteriorly, the gill on the fourth preanal segment still being trifid. 



With few exceptions the gills of all specimens begin on IX, the only 

 departures being three specimens, on two of which the first on one side 

 occurs on VIII and on another on X. The number of filaments 

 varies greatly, increasing with the size of the specimen. The smallest 

 example (1 mm. wide) has the first gill simple and most of the others 

 bifid. A complete specimen, 47 mm. long and 2 mm. wide with 87 

 segments, bears gills on all podous segments beginning with IX, the 

 first and the last two consisting of a single filament each and the 

 maximum number of filaments being three. One 140 mm. long and 

 4 mm. wide lacks gills on the last four segments, the maximum number 

 of filaments is seven and most of the gills caudad of the middle of the 

 body are trifid. Another, 195 mm. long and 7 mm. wide, with 177 

 segments, has trifid gills on IX of one side, X of the other and attains 

 a maximum of twelve or thirteen filaments, with the last three seg- 

 ments abranchiate. The largest complete specimen is 203 mm. long 

 and 9 mm. wide and bears a small gill of two filaments on one side 

 of VIII, the maximum number of filaments being fourteen and the 

 last gill on the fourth preanal segment. Bifid filaments occur fre- 

 quently. 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 251 



Jaws (described from a cotype, station 4,431) hard and firm. Man- 

 dibles with stout, divergent, nearly black stems joined only slightly 

 by an anterior isthmus; masticatory plates hard, white, "oval, with 

 smooth, entire anterior border. Maxillae black or nearly so. Carriers 

 of forceps- jaws nearly as wide as long, broadly rounded behind; the 

 forceps of the usual falcate form; II very large and stout with five 

 large teeth and one small one on each side; III on the right side is a 

 long narrow piece with eleven teeth diminishing in size from before 

 backward and is paired with two pieces on the left side with four and 

 eight teeth, respectively; IV bears a single prominent tooth on each 

 side; V is a small toothless plate. Two other specimens dissected 

 agree in all essentials, the teeth being generally tipped with white and 

 the border of the mandible in one case tridentate. 



Color of the full-grown specimens pearl or gray with a beautiful and 

 delicate iridescence. Two of the larger specimens have the dorsum 

 finely mottled with brown. The smallest examples are more dis- 

 tinctively colored: one is pale brown above with an obscure white 

 zone on IV and V; another (the smallest) has the first three segments 

 almost solidly orange-brown, IV and V pure opalescent white and 

 several succeeding segments annulated with brown and white. 



Stations 4,312, off Point Loma Lighthouse, vicinity of San Diego, 

 95-135 fathoms," fine gray sand and rock; 4,373, same locality, 95-225 

 fathoms, green mud, sand and rock; 4,377 (Type), same locality, 

 127-299 fathoms, green mud and sand; 4,420, off San Nicolas Island, 

 32-33 fathoms, fine gray sand; 4,431, off Santa Rosa Island, 38-41 

 fathoms, varied bottom; 4,463, off Point Pinos Lighthouse, 285-357 

 fathoms, green mud; 4,532, same locality, 30 fathoms, gray sand 

 and rock. 



This species is related to E. hilobata Tread well, but is readily dis- 

 tinguished by several characters, especially by the notably smaller 

 number of gill filaments. The type of E. bilobata is 5.5 mm. wide and 

 the first gill (on IX) has nine filaments, the maximum reaching eighteen. 

 A specimen of E. multipectinata of the same size has only two filaments 

 on the first gill and a maximum of seven filaments. 



Other species having pectinate gills for the entire length which have 

 been reported from the Pacific Ocean are E. antennata Savigny, E. 

 microprion v. Marenzeller and E. flavo-fasciata Grube. All of these 

 have the gills beginning farther forward and differ in other respects 

 also. 




252 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



Eunice hawaiensis Tread well? 



Eunice hawaiensis Treadwell, Bull. U. S. Fish Comm., XXIII (1906), Pi. 

 Ill, pp. 1166, 1167, figs. 42-44. 



The solitary incomplete example referred to here, while differing 

 considerably from Treadwell's description, is certainly very closely 

 related to, if not identical with, E. hawaiensis. It consists of 122 ante- 

 rior segments having a length of 76 mm. and a width without parapodia 

 of 5.5 mm. and with them, but excluding setae, of 8.5 mm. 



The prostomium with its tentacles, the parapodia, setae (of which, 

 however, Treadwell's figure does not show a full profile view), and 

 maxillae are practically identical with those of E. hawaiensis. The 

 branchiae, however, are fewer and much less complex than those of the 

 type. They have the following distribution and number of filaments 

 on the right side, the left being almost identical : 1 filament somite V, 

 2 filaments somite VIII, 5 on IX, 9 on X, 13 on XII, 15 on XV, 19 on 

 XX, 15 on XXVI, 16 on XXXV, 8 on XL, 5 on XLII, 2 on XLIII and 

 1 on XLIV. Where best developed, from XV to XXX, the gills are 

 very large with numerous long, parallel filaments equalling about 

 one-third the body width. Although closely resembling the gills of 

 E. hawaiensis, the stems are always gently curved, never abruptly 

 bent. The first three consist of the main trunks only. The type of 

 E. hawaiensis is larger, measuring 7 mm. in body width and has the 

 gills beginning on IV with three filaments and continuing to beyond 

 L, and when best developed possessing as many as thirty filaments. 

 This is a greater difference than one would expect in two individuals 

 of the same species differing no more in size than do these. 



The hard, white masticatory plates of the mandibles, in addition 

 to the large lateral tooth, bear three small teeth near the median line. 



Eunice congesta v. Marenzeller may be mentioned as another closely 

 related Pacific species. 



Station 4,537, off Point Pinos Lighthouse, Monterey Bay, 1,062 

 fathoms ; hard sand and mud. 



Marphysa conferta sp. nov. PI. XVI, figs. 29-34. 



Known from a single specimen 24 mm. long and 1.9 mm. wide be- 

 twin tips of parapodia with 57 segments and a regeneration cone of 

 about a dozen indistinct segments. 



Prostomium (PI. XVI, fig. 29) large, nearly as wide as the peris- 

 tomium, suborbicular but bent downward so that in dorsal view it is 

 foreshortened and appears much wider than long, depressed, with an 

 anterior notch that is the termination of a ventral groove that slightly 

 divides it into somewhat swollen rounded halves. Eyes one pair. 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 253 



large, conspicuous, brown, situated close to the posterior border 

 immediately behind the lateral tentacles. Tentacles five, arising 

 along a slightly curved transverse line near the posterior end of the 

 prostomium, but passing in front of the eyes laterally. All shghtly 

 fusiform, tapered to distal end and transversely wrinkled or subar-" 

 ticulated, the median about one and one-third times the length of the 

 prostomium, the others successively somewhat shorter. 



Peristomium a simple, regularly cylindrical, smooth, apodous ring 

 with a slight median ventral notch on the lip and no trace of nuchal 

 cirri. Somite II scarcely more than one-half as long as I, but otherwise 

 similar. The remainder of the body is terete, of nearly uniform 

 diameter except that the posterior portion is somewhat enlarged and 

 distended with ova. The segments become shorter to the branchial 

 region, where they are about four and one-half times as wide as long; 

 posterior to this the length again increases until at the posterior end 

 they are only twice as wide as long. With the fourth (PI. XVI, fig. 29) 

 a small ring separates at the anterior end of each segment and increases 

 until in the post-branchial region it forms a regular propodal annulus. 

 Pygidium at the end of the regeneration cone a short tube bearing one 

 cirrus about equal to one-fourth the body width and another half as 

 long as the first. 



Parapodia (PI. XVI, figs. 30, 31) strictly lateral and in the pro- 

 branchial and branchial regions prominent and outstanding, becoming 

 smaller in the postbranchial region, strictly uniramous, there being 

 no trace of a notopodium. Anterior parapodia consist of a low, 

 rounded, slightly compressed setigerous tubercle, behind which is a 

 compressed postsetal lip at the base as deep as the setigerous lobe, 

 while its bluntly ending dorsal part is prolonged to about twice the 

 length of the base. The notocirrus arises just above the foot and is 

 about twice its length, somewhat enlarged at the base, slender and 

 tapering distally and marked with obscure annular furrows. The 

 neurocirrus has a thick, swollen base broadly attached to the ventral 

 face of the neuropodium and bearing a small papilliform distal piece 

 which is bent more or less ventrad. Posterior to the branchial region 

 the parapodia and all of their parts become gradually smaller. The 

 neuropodia become low, compressed cones (fig. 31), the apex of which 

 is formed by the acicular process, while the postsetal lip becomes low 

 and inconspicuous. The basal part of the neurocirri is much reduced, 

 leaving only the short, bluntly rounded cirrus which reaches to the 

 end of the acicular process. The notocirrus while undergoing reduc- 

 tion in size retains its characteristic form and proportions, having a 




254 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



basal enlargement and a slender style about three times as long as the 

 foot. 



Neuropodial acicula two or three simple, straight, tapered rods with 

 the ends pale and the middle brown or black. Posteriorly there is 

 only one of these, the distal end of which projects freely. No notopo- 

 dial acicula. 



Branchiae (PI. XVI, fig. 30) remarkable for their large size and 

 restriction to nine segments (X-XVIII inclusive). The first on X 

 has five fully developed filaments and the number on the others varies 

 from five to seven. Each consists of a short, stout, tapered trunk 

 arising from the dorsal side of the base of the notocirrus and curving 

 dorsad over the back, its distal end abruptly bent to form the last 

 filament, parallel and nearly equal to the others, which are slender 

 and tapered and nearly equal in length to the notocirrus with which 

 the ventralmost is coalesced at the base. The largest meet across 

 the dorsum. 



Setae of four kinds, all but the crochets colorless. Compound setae 

 (fig. 32) form a dense subacicular fascicle of several rows, very numerous 

 anteriorly, fewer behind. The shafts are slender, curved, with the 

 ends enlarged, oblique and bearing a deep cleft or socket with finely 

 serrated borders. Appendages loosely attached, tapered from the 

 basal enlargement to the bidentate tip, remarkable for the length and 

 wide separation of the teeth ; detached front border finely denticulated 

 or striated and continued into the delicate hood. Supra-acicular 

 fascicle composed of a tuft of delicate simple capillary setae, some of 

 which are prolonged as far as the end of the notocirrus and associated 

 with these on postbranchial parapodia a few very delicate pectinate 

 setae with 16 or 18 short mucronate teeth and one margin bearing a 

 slender filament (fig. 33). Posterior parapodia bear a single ventral 

 crochet of a yellow color and having the end bidentate and hooded 

 (fig. 34). 



Practically colorless and lacking notable iridescence, only a slight 

 greenish shimmer anteriorly. Jaws not dissected. 



The type, a female filled with ova, comes from station 4,431, off 

 Brockway Point, Santa Rosa Island, 38-40 fathoms, coarse gray sand, 

 yellow mud and rocks. 



ONUPHID^. 



The large number of species representing this family is noteworthy, 

 there being in the collection five species of Nothria, three of Onwphis, 

 one of Diopatra and two of Hyalincecia — no less than eleven in all. 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 255 



Within areas of similar size and under similar conditions of collecting 

 one usually finds not over four or five species. Three species were 

 found each at station 4,387, in deep water off the Gulf of Santa 

 Catalina, and 4,510, in Monterey Bay. With few exceptions, they 

 occurred on muddy bottoms. 



Nothria iridescens Johnson. 



Nothria iridescens Johnson, Proc. Bos. Soc. Nat. Hist., XXIX, p. 408, 

 PI. 8, figs. 86, 87; PI. 9, figs. 88-92. 



The gills of this species begin on the first parapodium. Two points 

 in Johnson's description require modification after a study of the 

 large number of specimens in this collection. The biarticulate style 

 of the posterior paired tentacles is accidental and inconstant. Similar 

 breaks may occur on any of the styfes; there may be several on one 

 style or be asymmetrical on the two styles of a pair or, as is most 

 usual, altogether absent. Neurocirri do not disappear on V, but 

 remain quite prominent, though short and thick, to VII, and their 

 thickened bases continue as glandular swellings to the middle of the 

 body as in many other species of the genus. The posterior paired 

 tentacles, although quite variable in length, seem always to exceed 

 the median tentacle. The color is quite variable, but usually more or 

 less blotched with deep purple and brightly iridescent anteriorly. 



A tube of average size is 190 mm. long and 5.5 mm. in diameter, 

 the outer end being slightly larger than the inner. The larger end is 

 composed almost entirely of a very fragile wall of fine silt nearly 2 mm. 

 thick and lacks the tough membranous lining that extends through 

 the remainder of the tube. 



This species occurs generally thioughout the region covered by this 

 report and was taken in abundance at stations 4,462, 4,485, 4,508, 

 4,510, 4,523, 4,525 and 4,526. ' ' 



Stations 4,322, Soledad Hill, Point La Jolla, vicinity of San Diego, 

 110-199 fathoms, soft green mud; 4,339, off Point Loma Lighthouse, 

 vicinity of San Diego, 289-36^ fathoms, green mud; 4,433, off Santa 

 Rosa Island, 243-265 fathoms, green mud; 4,436, off San Miguel 

 Island, 264-271 fathoms, green mud; and the following stations in 

 Monterey Bay: 4,446, 4,457, 4,461, 4,462, 4,463, 4,464, 4,475, 4,482 

 4,485, 4,508, 4,510, 4,522, 4,523, 4,524, 4,525, 4,526, 5,428 at depths 

 varying from 36 to 357 fathoms, except in the case of the last station 

 where the depth is recorded as 766-800 fathoms. The bottoms were 

 muddy, usually "soft green mud," except at station 4,463, which was 

 rocky and yielded a single specimen, and at station 4,522, which 

 yielded ten specimens and is recorded as of gray sand and shells, 

 though evidently adjoining a bed of green mud (station 4,523, etc.). 




256 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



Nothria geophiliformis Moore. 



Nothria geophiliformis Moore, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1903, pp. 445- 

 448, PI. XXV, figs. 57-59. 



Gills may begin on either V or VI, usually the latter. A young speci- 

 men has a pair of minute eye specks. The small size of this species 

 has probably caused it to be overlooked at some stations. The 

 anterior articulated crochets differ strikingly from those of N. 'pallida. 



Stations 4,445, off Point Pinos Lighthouse, Monterey Bay, 60-66 

 fathoms, green mud; 4,480, off Santa Cruz Lighthouse, Monterey Bay, 

 53-76 fathoms, dark green mud and sand; 4,510, off Point Pinos 

 Lighthouse, 91-156, gray mud. 



Nothria pallida sp. nov. PI. XV, figs. 24-28 : pi. XVI, 35-37. 



A moderately elongated species, terete anteriorly, depressed for 

 most of the length. The type — an incomplete specimen with the 

 caudal end regenerating — consists of 166 segments and is 82 mm. long 

 with a maximum body width of 4 mm. and a depth of 2.7 mm. at the 

 end of the anterior third. A complete specimen 62 mm. long and 2.8 

 mm. wide has 266 segments. Another broken specimen has an aggre- 

 gate length of 124 mm. and 290 segments. 



Prostomium relatively larger than in A^. geophiloformis, quadrate 

 orbicular in outline, slightly wider than long, with the greatest width 

 at the level of the posterior paired tentacles. No distinct eyes, though 

 several obscure dusky spots appear on the prostomium. Frontal 

 tentacles nearly in contact at the base, arising on extreme anterior 

 border of prostomium, divergent, cylindroid with a lateral emargination 

 about which they are bent into a bean-like shape ; about twice as long 

 as thick and one-half as long as the prostomium. Anterior or outer 

 paired tentacles barely reaching to III, the annulated ceratophore 

 of thirteen rings and a short, non- annulated end, about one and one- 

 fourth times as long as the short, smooth conical style. Posterior 

 lateral tentacles reaching XVI or XVII, the ceratophores nearly as 

 long as the entire anterior tentacles and composed of seventeen rings 

 and a smooth end-piece; styles flagelliform, much more slender than 

 ceratophores and three and one-half times as long. Median tentacle 

 reaching to IX, similar to posterior paired tentacles, but cerataphores 

 only half as long with nine or ten annuli. A small specimen has the 

 styles of the anterior paired tentacles nearly equal to the ceratophores 

 and the median and posterior paired tentacles shorter than on the 

 t)rpe, the latter reaching to XII only. Palps situated immediately 

 in front of mouth, separated by a narrow cleft only, thick, quadrate, 

 and divergent, about twice the size of the frontal tentacles. 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 257 



Peristomium not longer than prostomium) continuing its regular 

 outline and widening posteriorly; deeply cleft below for mouth and 

 bearing the wide, bilobed, hammer-shaped, posterior lip. Nuchal 

 tentacles arising from its extreme anterior border, separated by 

 slightly more than their length and reaching extreme anterior endo- 

 prostomium. Anterior region of body slender and terete, the segments 

 about as long as wide and not much wider anteriorly than posteriorly. 

 Beyond V the segments become gradually shorter, wider and more 

 depressed until in the middle region they are very regularly about 

 eight times as wide as long. Farther back they become gradually 

 narrower and less depressed without change in length till near the 

 pygidium. Pygidium short, cylindroid, abruptly truncated, bearing 

 two pairs of slender divergent cirri, of which the dorsal is twice the 

 length of the ventral and one-half the body width. 



Parapodia (PI. XV, figs. 24, 25, and PL XVI, fig. 35) exhibit the 

 usual characteristics of the genus. The first five are widely separated 

 and modified, but gradually become less so from before backward. 

 The three cirriform processes (figs. 24 and 25) are present and moder- 

 ately slender and elongated, the notocirrus the longest of the three 

 and reaching the middle of the preceding foot in each case, the neuro- 

 cirrus and the middle cirrus or postsetal lobe each from one-half to 

 two-thirds as long on the different parapodia, the latter the stouter 

 and flattened at the base. Just before and after the gills appear, the 

 notocirrus exhibits a conspicuous constriction and distortion near the 

 base. After the fifth parapodium the neurocirrus becomes rapidly 

 reduced to an opake glandular ridge below the base of the parapodium 

 which for a few segments bears at its lateral end a short blunt papilla 

 which recedes into the ridge in the course of three or four segments. 

 The postsetal lobe becomes reduced rapidly and completely; beginning 

 with the sixth foot, it becomes shorter and blunt and continues to be 

 changed until at the eleventh it becomes a small, blunt, rounded 

 papilla lying ventral to the setae and almost replacing the here obsolete 

 neurocirrus, but postacicular instead of preacicular. Farther back 

 (fig. 35) it totally disappears. The notocirrus remains well-developed 

 for the entire length, but undergoes gradual reduction in size after the 

 appearance of the branchiae, appearing upon the largest of these as a 

 much smaller lateral process. The neuropodium becomes rapidly 

 shorter and simplified as in other species. 



Branchiae (PI. XVI, fig. 35) simple throughout, the first appearing 

 in connection with the fourth foot (V) or more rarely with the third 

 on IV, in the latter case being usually quite small. They appear as 




258 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



the direct continuation of the base of the notocirrus, which they dis- 

 place ventrally or toward the neuropodium. The first is always much 

 more slender than the notocirrus, but nearly as long. By somite X 

 the gill is three times as long as the notocirrus, and when, on middle 

 segments, its maximum size is reached is fully four times as long and 

 reaches well beyond the mid-dorsal line except on one specimen, on 

 which they are strongly contracted. All of the gills, which continue 

 nearly to the caudal end, are coarse round filaments apparently not 

 at all ligulate and contain two large longitudinal blood-vessels con- 

 nected by a large number of semiannular transverse vessels. 



Neuropodial acicular three or four stout, tapered rods with mucro- 

 nate tips projecting freely beyond the surface antero- ventral to the 

 curved series of capillary setae from which they are not sharply dis- 

 tinguished. Notopodial acicula a fascicle of a few very slender and 

 delicate fibers passing through the notopodial base and far into the 

 no to cirrus. 



Setae are of five forms, all but the yellow posterior crochets being 

 colorless. The first five neuropodia bear a nearly complete circle 

 enclosing the acicula, of semi-articulated, tridentate, guarded crochets 

 (PI. XV, fig. 26) and simple capillarl}'^ setse differing little from the 

 acicula save only in their longer projecting points. The latter increase 

 in number and in size and in parapodia immediately following the 

 fifth (VI) replace the crochets. In the course of ten or twelve segments 

 they gradually disappear. All parapodia, beginning with the sixth, 

 bear a curved fascicle dorsal to the postacicular lobe of delicate, nearly 

 straight, capillary setae which, on anterior segments, are provided with 

 a narrow limbus not discernible posteriorly. Among the bases of 

 these are very delicate setae ending in gouge-shaped expansions bearing 

 eighteen or twenty regular mucronate teeth (fig. 27). Beginning at 

 about XVII two large and stout crochets appear an teio- ventral to the 

 acicular papilla; their shafts are slightly curved and distally thickened 

 and the little projecting ends bidentate and enclosed between a pair 

 of guards (fig. 28). 



Jaws described from a single dissection of a cotype (station 4,401). 

 Mandibles (PI. XVI, fig, 36) pale brown with pure white masticatory 

 plates, soft, the two halves only very slightly joined by the bases of 

 the masticatory plates, the long slender stems or carriers widely 

 separated and of nearly equal width throughout. Masticatory plates 

 white with a black trifid spot near the base of each, narrowly ovate 

 quadrilateral with obscurely bidentate end. Maxillae (fig. 37) rather 

 soft, pale brown with certain very dark lines and thickenings as shown 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 259 



in the figure. Carriers of forceps jaws (I) only slightly united, 

 widest at the middle, their posterior ends separated and pointed; 

 forceps stout at base, the ends acute and strongly hooked. Large 

 dentinal plates (II) stout and broad, the right with nine noarly equal 

 stout teeth, the left with six teeth, of which the first is enlarged and 

 separated from the others by a considerable gap. Left unpaired 

 plate (Ila) with seven or eight teeth. Anterior pieces (III) with a 

 narrow, curved, toothed ridge and a large flaring basal plate or wing, 

 the left six- or seven- toothed, the right larger, with eight teeth. Small 

 accessory jaws (IV) triangular, each bearing a single tooth. 



Except for a small brown^spot at the base of each notocirrus and 

 smaller ones on the bases of the tentacles, the specimens are colorless. 



The anterior ten or twelve segments of every specimen are strongly 

 bent upwards so that the head is usually quite reversed. 



Stations 4,352 (Type), off Point Loma Lighthouse, vicinity of 

 San Diego Bay, 549-585 fathoms, green mud; 4,400, Lat. 32° 50' 20" N., 

 Long. 118° 03' 30" W., 500-507 fathoms, green mud; 4,401, Lat. 

 32° 52' 40" N., 118° 13' 40" W., 448-468 fathoms, green mud, black 

 sand; 4,415, off Santa Barbara Island, 302-638 fathoms, green mud. 

 Nothria sp. ? PI. XVI, figs. 38-40. 



The anterior end of a rather small Nothria 1.6 mm. wide, probably 

 representing another undescribed species. It has much of the aspect 

 of A^. geophiliformis and the setse resemble those of that species, from 

 all typical examples of which it differs, however, in the first appearance 

 of the gills on VII. The cephalic tentacles are peculiar and may be 

 abnormal. The median just equals the anterior or outer paired and 

 its style is about two-fifths that of the posterior paired. The frontal 

 tentacles are shorter than their diameter. All cephalic ceratophores 

 are short and 5- or 6-annulate. No eyes. Nuchal cirri very short, 

 only one-third or one-fourth of the distance separating them. Gills 

 begin abruptly on VII, resemble those of A^". holobranchia and in their 

 full development reach to the opposite side. Jaws not dissected. 



Taken from a simple mud tube from station 4,387, Lat. 32° 32' 40" N., 

 Long. 118° 04' 20" W., 1,059 fathoms, green mud. 

 Nothria hiatidentata sp nov. Pis. XVI, XVII, figs. 41-50. 



A very interesting species based on two specimens found in a jar 

 of Hyalinoecia tubicola, to which species this bears a remarkably close 

 superficial resemblance. Indeed, in most characters except the 

 presence of nuchal cirri this species resembles Hyalinoecia more closely 

 than ordinary Nothrice. It is a noteworthy case of associative resem- 

 blance. 




260 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



The type is a complete example of 94 segments, 112 mm. long, with 

 a maximum body width at XXV of 4.8 mm. and a depth of 4 mm. 



Prostomium (PI. XVI, fig. 41) in the strongly up-bent position in 

 which it occurs in both specimens nearly circular, the seven tentacles 

 radiating very regularly about its margin and as usual increasing in 

 length from before caudad. Frontal tentacles in contact medially on 

 the extreme anterior border of the prostomium from which they are 

 scarcely delimited, little divergent, nearly two-thirds as long as the 

 prostomium, short ellipsoidal and slightly bilobate from a shallow 

 lateral furrow. Probably the styles of none of the dorsal tentacles 

 are quite complete, the ends of all being more or less worn and ragged. 

 The ceratophores of all are short, scarcely longer than thick and divided 

 into three or four annuli. The styles increase in both length and 

 diameter from before backward, the anterior paired reaching to II, 

 the posterior paired to XII or XIII and the median to XV. Palpi 

 large, subgloboid, slightly bilobed processes bounding the mouth in 

 front, in contact medially and projecting ventrad and laterally beyond 

 the sides of the prostomium. 



Peristomium reduced, scarcely half as long as the prostomium and 

 not much wider. Nuchal cirri (fig. 41) arising slightly behind anterior 

 border of peristomium in line with lateral border of base of posterior 

 lateral tentacles, slender, tapered, not quite reaching base of one of 

 opposite side. Posterior lip somewhat bilobed, furrowed, its antero- 

 lateral margins continuous with mandibular cushions and not pro- 

 jecting freely as in many species. Somite II much enlarged, more 

 than twice as long as I and nearly twice as wide, strongly convex 

 and rising beyond I on all sides and embracing it completely laterally. 

 Anterior region of body stout, not slender as in many species ; III and 

 IV rapidly reduced in length, V about normal; its width about six 

 times length. These proportions are maintained throughout the 

 middle region, but the width gradually decreases posteriorly until it 

 becomes only three times the length. Dorsum very strongly arched, 

 venter fiat with neural groove. Body walls firm and muscular ante- 

 riorly, softer with translucent walls posteriorly. Caudal end tapered 

 rather rapidly to a short tubular pygidium with expanded rim bearing 

 a pair of very slender subanal cirri as long as the last eleven segments 

 and one and one-third times the greatest body width. 



Parapodia of anterior end much like those of Hyalinoecia (PI. XVI, 

 figs. 42, 43). The first (fig. 41) much enlarged, most modified and 

 strongly bent forward at sides of prostomium to the level of its anterior 

 border, cylindroid or subconical and truncate, much and deeply fur- 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 261 



rowed, terminating in a low, rounded acicular process and two broad, 

 flat lips, the post-acicular one being much the longer and truncate 

 distally. The short, simple notocirrus arises about the middle of its 

 dorsal face and barely reaches the distal end of the neuropodium. 

 Neurocirrus arises on ventral side close to mouth and fails to reach 

 the bases of the setae. Second parapodium (III) (fig. 42) is similar 

 but much smaller and both the post-acicular process (middle cirrus) 

 and notocirrus are much more slender and elongated, while the neuro- 

 cirrus is enlarged and bluntly conical. The third foot is of more normal 

 size and position and the notocirrus is still longer, reaching beyond the 

 postacicular lobe. But the chief change affects the neurocirrus, 

 which is no longer truly cirriform, but merely a small, rounded, cylin- 

 droid papillae. The fourth parapodium (fig. 43) differs only in the 

 complete suppression of the neurocirrus. After the fourth (somite V) 

 the neuropodia are gradually reduced in size until they become low, 

 compressed cones (fig. 44). The maximum size of the post-acicular 

 lobe is attained at about VII or VIII, after which it undergoes gradual 

 reduction, being still distinct at XV but obsolete at XXX. The 

 notocirrus retains its length longer, at its maximum reaching about 

 half-way to the middle line and exhibiting but little change until after 

 the appearance of the gills, when it becomes rapidly reduced to a 

 slender filament about one-third as long as the gill (fig. 44). Behind 

 IV the neurocirri become small, rounded glandular elevations which 

 gradually become smaller and finally disappear. 



Gills begin on XIV, though a small prophetic papillae occurs on 

 one side of XIII of one specimen. They arise at a brown vascular 

 knot on the dorsal side of the base of the notopodium, which, however, 

 is not so abruptly displaced ventrad as in Nothria pallida, though, 

 when the cirrus reaches its greatest reduction, it appears as little more 

 than a lateral process of the gill (fig. 44). From the first they equal 

 the notocirrus in length and seldom reach more than half-way to the 

 middle line. They have the usual form and structure but, unlike those 

 of N. iridescens and other species, become little flattened posteriorly. 



Neuropodial acicula four or five, stout, slightly curved and tapered, 

 the simply pointed tip apparently not reaching beyond the surface 

 on anterior parapodia. Farther back there are three with abruptly 

 tapered, acute, curved and often bent tips exposed for a short distance. 

 There are no evident notopodial acicula. 



Setae are of four kinds. Large setae on the anterior modified seg- 

 ments mostly broken, but several that are intact (PI. XVI, fig. 45) 

 are simple spines with the ends worn smooth as in Hyalinoecia. A 




262 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Apiil, 



single newly erupted smaller one on III (fig. 46) shows that they are 

 bidentate and guarded at the tip, but apparently not articulated. 

 Limbate setae and pectinate setae (fig. 47) begin on the second foot, 

 on which the type specimen bears in a dorsal fascicle several of the 

 former and one of the latter. Beginning with the fourth foot and 

 continuing to the caudal end there are both dorsal and ventral small 

 fascicles of limbate setse. They have rather long stems and gently 

 sigmoid, tapered and very acute ends bearing lanceolate, bilimbate 

 blades. They become longer posteriorly. Delicate colorless pectinate 

 setse (PI. XVI, fig. 47) occur among the bases of the dorsal limbate 

 setae from III to the caudal end and, except on the first two or three 

 parapodia, form a dense cluster. The ends appear to be funnel-form 

 with about one-third of the circle cut out and the border striated and 

 finely denticulated. Ventral crochets begin on V, at first single and 

 slender, but after about XV there are two or three. Two very stout 

 yellow ones (fig. 48) are characteristic of the middle region. These 

 have fibrous cores and slightly curved shafts, swelling distally, then 

 rather abruptly contracted to the small head which is terminated by 

 two rather long processes placed at nearly a right angle to the shaft 

 and enclosed in a pair of narrow, subtriangular guards. The terminal 

 teeth become shorter on anterior segments. 



Jaws described from the cotype. Mandibles chiefly dark brown 

 except the masticatory plates which are white with two or thiee very 

 dark brown lines across the basal part (PI. XVII, fig. 49). The two 

 halves are very lightly united; the stems of nearly vmiform width, 

 with slightly expanded distal ends grooved to bear the masticatory 

 plates which are elliptical with irregularly crenulated free margins. 

 Maxillae (fig. 50) massive, dark brown, hard. Carriers of forceps jaws 

 very broad in posterior half, about one and one-fourth times length, 

 the posterior border broadly rounded. Forceps rather long and 

 slender, strongly hooked with acute tips. Maxilla II, left outer plate 

 with nine teeth, of which the first is very large and widely separated 

 from the second very small tooth by a wide bay fitting the anterior 

 eni of the left inner plate, which bears nine regular stout teeth; right 

 plate very large with ten large, somewhat hooked teeth. Maxillae 

 III, narrow curved pieces, the left bearing ten, the right thirteen teeth. 

 Maxillae IV, small plates bearing a single tooth on each side. 



Color all faded out with the exception of small brown spots at the 

 base of the gills. 



Described from two specimens (of which the cotype is filled with 

 sperm balls) both from station 4,387, off San Diego, Lat. 32° 32' 40" N., 

 Long. 118° 04' 20" W., 1.059 fathoms, green mud. 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 263 



Onuphis parva sp. nov. PI. XVII, figs. 51-57, and PI. XVIII, figs. 98, 99. 



A small, slender species of linear form, the type measuring 36 mm. 

 long and, exclusive of the parapodia, about .6 mm. v^ide, with 104 

 segments. A large number of specimens are of similar size and only 

 a very few larger, the maximum being about 45 mm. long and .9 mm. 

 wide. Sexual maturity is attained at a length of 30 mm. 



Prostomium longer than usual, about one and one-quarter times as 

 long as wide, elliptical in outline. Frontal tentacles on ventro-anterior 

 border, nearly their length apart, divergent, ovate in outline with a 

 constricted pedicle, their length about two-fifths prostomium. Ante- 

 rior paired tentacles on antero-lateral border, barely reaching IV; 

 ceratophore about one-third st^^le, 4-annuIate. Posterior paired ten- 

 tacles on dorsal face close to lateral margins and slightly in advance 

 of middle, reaching IX or X ; ceratophore slightly longer than those of 

 anterior pair, its basal half of three distinct rings, the distal half not 

 distinctly annulated. Median tentacle arising at almost exact center 

 of prostomium, constantly slightly shorter than posterior paired 

 tentacles, reaching only to VIII or middle of VII, its ceratophore 

 similar to that of posterior pair. Eyes situated immediately caudad 

 of base of posterior paired tentacles, usually two minute black specks 

 (sometimes coalesced into one) on each side. Palps rather prominent, 

 ovate lobes on ventral face of prostomium, projecting slightly beyond 

 its margins. 



Peristomium similar in size and proportions to immediately following 

 segments, shortest above, where it is about one-half prostomium, the 

 latter being much more extensively exposed than in most species. 

 Nuchal cirri widely separated on extreme anterior border of peri- 

 stomium, short conical, barely reaching to middle line or posterior 

 border of peristomium. Somite II neither wider nor longer than suc- 

 ceeding segments, not embracing peristomium and its parapodia, not 

 obviously enlarged nor strongly bent forward. The first three or four 

 podous segments differ from the others only in having the walls some- 

 what firmer, the integuments more pigmented, in being more terete 

 and in having the parapodia more ventral in position. Middle and 

 posterior segments strongly depressed, with the parapodia and espe- 

 cially the gills carried high, the parapodial area thick and glandular 

 and the dorsal and ventral field flat and translucent. They are 

 remarkably uniform in size, but taper gradually in the posterior half. 



Pygidium tubular with an obliquely truncate end having a thickened 

 border and at the produced ventral margin a cluster of two pairs of 

 very slender and delicate anal cirri, the dorsal about four times as long 

 as the ventral and equal to the last seven segments. 




264 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



Parapodia all small and little prominent, even the first, although 

 slightly enlarged and somewhat modified as in other species, presenting 

 none of the extreme modifications so often exhibited. The first has a 

 low presetal and a much enlarged postsetal lip, the latter being broad 

 and flat at the base. Both cirri arise far out and the notocirrus is 

 tapered and reaches much beyond the end of the postsetal lobe; 

 neurocirrus bluntly truncated and falls short of the tip of the latter. 

 The second (PI. XVII, fig. 51) and third differ chiefly in the shorter 

 base, shorter and broader postsetal lobe, shorter neurocirrus and 

 successive^ more dorsal position. With the fourth (fig. 52) the 

 parapodia have about reached the dorsal position characteristic of 

 this species and the neurocirrus has been lost in a low rounded infra- 

 podal glandular swelling. The postsetal lobe continues to shrink, 

 and by XV is quite inconspicuous and little longer than the presetal 

 lip; the neuropodium becomes a broad, low, conical eminence (fig. 53) 

 and the notocirrus, although gradually reduced in size, remains well- 

 developed to the caudal end. 



Branchia? begin on the fourth foot (somite V) of the type, but al- 

 though this is the most frequent beginning small simple ones may be 

 detected on IV or even III of some specimens; more rarely the first 

 occurs on VI. The first gill is simple or bifilar, the former being espe- 

 cially the case when they have the more anterior origin. The single 

 filament (PI. XVII, fig. 52) is erect and forms the main trunk of the 

 gill, along the lateral side of which the secondary filaments arise on 

 more posterior gills. The first few gills are no longer than the noto- 

 cirri, but they increase as the latter diminish in size, the main stems 

 often reaching to or beyond the dorsimeson. Characteristically, they 

 are erect or semi-erect and pectinate (fig. 53) with a maximum of 

 about seven filaments, though the number varies from five to nine 

 according to the size of the specimen. On the type the last gill occurs 

 on XXXVII. A cotype, on w^hich the gills are more fully extended, 

 has the gills arranged as follows : 3 filaments on VIII, 4 on XII, 5 on 

 XIV, 6 on XV, 7 on XX-XXVII, 6 on XXVIII and XXIX, 5 on XXX, 

 4 on XXXI and XXXII, 3 on XXXIII, 2 on XXXIV, and one on 

 XXXVI. This is about the usual distribution. 



Neuropodial acicula usually four, little tapered until near the end 

 where they taper abruptly to a slender exposed mucron, the longer of 

 which project nearly to the border of the postsetal lobe. Farther 

 back they become fewer. Notopodial acicula delicate fibers passing 

 far itito the notocirri. 



Setse all colorless. Setse of first parapodium (PI. XVII, fig. 54) 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 265 



exclusively (except perhaps the dorsalmost) semicompound, bidentate 

 and guarded crochets with the articulation very imperfect and the 

 guards much prolonged and very acute. None of these setae is much 

 enlarged and the dorsalmost is very slender and acute and may lack 

 the hooked and bifid tip. The second and third parapodia have a 

 few similar setse in the anterior part of the fascicles, together with a 

 few simple acute setse in the dorsal part. On the fourth foot all 

 setae are of the latter type. Toward the distal end they become 

 somewhat enlarged and minutely pilose, but not truly limbate and then 

 taper to an acute tip. On the fourth parapodium there are only seven 

 of these setse, four being anterior and three dorsal, the latter more 

 slender. Simple setse of this type appear on all subsequent parapodia, 

 but after a few segments are limited to a small dorsal fascicle of two 

 to four and gradually become more slender and elongated toward the 

 caudal end. Pectinate setse (fig. 55) first detected on IX and present 

 on all following segments as a small dorsal tuft of three to six. They 

 are extremely delicate and have slightly curved asymmetrically ex- 

 panded ends with the margin distinctly denticulated. Two large 

 ventral crochets (fig. 56) appear on X, but become larger and more 

 exposed farther back. They are peculiar in the length of the beak 

 and small size of the accessory tooth and the somewhat unusual width 

 of the guards. Toward the caudal end they become much smaller 

 and one has the teeth reduced and the other more or less straightened 

 out and the guards are frequently absent (fig. 57). 



Jaws (PI. XVIII, figs. 98-99) pale brown or yellow, translucent, 

 soft, and flexible. Mandibles very delicate, the carriers slender, 

 widening very little distally, feebly united, the masticatory plate 

 narrowly elliptical, prolonged forward, a small tooth on the medial 

 side. Maxillse (fig. 99) with acute, strongly hooked forceps jaws, the 

 carriers about two-thirds as wide as long, each half prolonged into a 

 slender posterior process. Maxillse II broad plates, the left outer with 

 eight or nine teeth, the inner with seven or eight, the right with nine 

 or ten larger teeth; III, left five or six teeth, right seven or eight teeth ; 

 IV rudimentary, edentulous. 



Nearly all of those examined are practically colorless, the anterior 

 end more opake and iridescent. Some examples from station 4,454 

 have the cephalic appendages dark or black and conspicuous quadrate 

 blotches of black scattered over all parts of the body both dorsally and 

 ventrally and on parts enclosed by the tubes as well as parts exposed. 



Tubes generally about 45 mm. long and 2 mm. to 2.3 mm. in diameter, 

 tapering off at one end to a thin membraneous portion. The thicker 

 18 




266 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



portions are composed mainly of fine silt, but sometimes with a few- 

 sand grains or minute pebbles. 



This appears to be an abundant species, and were it not for its small 

 size would doubtless have been collected at many more stations. It 

 was especially abundant at stations 4,467 and 4,468, where several 

 hundred tubes were taken, and at 4,475, where about fifty were 

 obtained. 



Stations 4,445, off Point Pinos Lighthouse, Monterey Bay, 60-66 

 fathoms, green mud ; 4,446, same locality, 52-59 fathoms, green mud 

 (type) ; 4,452, 4,453, 4,454, same locality, 49-71 fathoms, green mud 

 and sand; 4,457, same locality, 40-46 fathoms, dark gi-een mud; 

 4,464, same locality, 36-51 fathoms, soft dark gray mud; 4,467, off 

 Santa Cruz Lighthouse, Monterey Bay, 51-54 fathoms, soft dark 

 green mud; 4,468, same locality, fine sand; 4,475, off Point Pinos 

 Lighthouse, 58-142 fathoms, soft green mud; 4,480, off Santa Cruz 

 Lighthouse, 53-76 fathoms, dark green mud and sand; 4,485, same 

 locality, 89-108 fathoms, soft green mud and sand; 4,510, off Point 

 Pinos Lighthouse, 91-184 fathoms, gray mud; 4,522, same locality, 

 130-149 fathoms, gray sand and shells; 4,523, same locality, 75-108 

 fathoms, soft dark mud. 

 Onuphis vezillaria sp. uov. PI. XVII, figs. 69-76. 



A slender, elongated and very distinct species described from a 

 single anterior end and four other pieces which are believed to form a 

 single specimen, complete except for the caudal end. The aggi*egate 

 length is 159 mm., the width without parapodia 3 mm. and including 

 them 4.2 mm. in the middle region; and the total number of segments 

 242. 



Prostomium small, nearly circular, with a slight posterior emargina- 

 tion, convex, its surface largely occupied by the bases of the tentacles, 

 which are arranged in the form of an ellipse. Frontal tentacles short, 

 thick and ovate, about one-half length of prostomium, short peduncu- 

 late, divergent and separated by a space exceeding theii- diameter. 

 A pair of minute eye-spots at the medial side of their bases. Dorsal 

 tentacles all with annulated ceratophores and slender smooth styles. 

 Anterior pair reach to middle of III, the style three times the length 

 of the ceratophore which has seven articulations. Posterior pair 

 reaching X, the ceratophore as long as the anterior but with a smooth 

 distal part in addition to seven articulations. Median reaching VIII 

 with much shorter ceratophore of six annuli. Palps immediately 

 anterior to mouth, strongly divergent, stouter and somewhat longer 

 than frontal tentacles and divided by a shallow cross-furrow. 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 267 



Peristomiiim narrow, continuing outline of prostomium in a regular 

 dome-like curve, but separated by a well-defined dorsal furrow. It is 

 produced somewhat forward to embrace the prostomium at the sides 

 and dorsally slightly overlaps it as a low, somewhat convex nuchal 

 collar. Ventrally it is cut almost to the posterior furrow by the large 

 mouth, which is partly covered by a broad lip with laterally produced 

 angles. Nuchal cirri slender, tapered, simple, rising high up at the 

 level of the inner lateral tentacles from the extreme anterior margin 

 of the prostomium and separated by one-half their length. They 

 reach to the caudal border of II or well beyond the anterior border of 

 the prostomium. 



Anterior metastomial region slender and nearly terete, the first five 

 podous segments of nearly equal length and width, the ratio being 

 about as two to two and one-half, the greatest width being at the 

 anterior end where the parapodia arise. After VII the segments 

 become gradually wider and rather abruptly shorter until by XX they 

 are about five times as wide as long and distinctly depressed w^ith the 

 dorsum flattened. This depressed form continues throughout the 

 middle and posterior region. Furrows generally rather weakly de- 

 veloped except between the parapodia. Integuments rather soft, 

 semitranslucent and grayish except in the subparapodial region, where 

 there are thick, opake, whitish glandular areas; surface very smooth 

 with highly iridescent cuticle. Pygidium unknown. 



Parapodia of anterior end prominent, beginning on II near the 

 ventral level and gradually shifting dorsad until by XV they have 

 attained nearly the dorsal level. Anterior parapodia (PI. XVII, 

 figs. 69 and 70) are remarkable for the gi^eat length of their parts. 

 The first is situated at the extreme anterior end of somite II and is 

 directed only slightly forward. Succeeding ones shift to a more caudal 

 position and lose the forward slope until the sixth is on the middle of 

 its segment and the third is directed straight later ad. They have a 

 rather long pedicle bearing a notocirrus, neurocirrus and slender 

 neuropodial setigerous lobe divided at the distal end into a scarcely 

 perceptible presetal lip and a remarkably prolonged, attenuate cirri- 

 form postsetal lip. Neurocirrus arises near the base of the ventral 

 surface and is of similar form and nearly equal length to the postsetal 

 cirrus. Notocirrus arises dorsally nearly opposite to the neurocirrus 

 from a thickened notopodial pedicle, into which the acicula enter, 

 followed by a constriction and again by a swelling tapering into a long 

 slender style one and one-half to twice the length of the neurocirrus, 

 and the longest exceeding the diameter of the anterior segments 




268 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



(figs. 69 and 70). Tiittle change takes place in the first five parapodia, 

 but with the sixth the whole parapodium begins to diminish in size, 

 the neurocirrus especially dwindling until b}^ the ninth the entire style 

 has disappeared and the base is represented only by the usual opake, 

 somewhat swollen, whitish area ventral to the base of the foot, which 

 becomes smaller but continues to the caudal end. The postsetal lip 

 becomes smaller very gi-adually, but remains to the middle segments 

 as a small conical process. Except that it becomes more slender and 

 assumes the proportions of a gill filament, the notocirrus undergoes 

 little change (fig. 71). 



Branchiae appear on both sides of somite V (fig. 70) as a single 

 filament as long, but much more slender than the postsetal cirrus, 

 arising from the notopodial base in common with and on the dorsal 

 side of the notocirrus. On succeeding segments the filament becomes 

 long and on IX a second appears; additional ones then appearing (sym- 

 metrically except as mentioned) up to the number of nine, as follows : 

 three on XIII (XIV on right), four on XVI, five on XIX, six on XX, 

 seven on XXI, eight on XXVII and nine at about XXXV. The last 

 number (fig. 71) continues to at least L. The largest gills on pieces 

 from the middle of the body, the segment numbers being undetermined, 

 bear as many as twelve filaments and the most caudal segments 

 represented bear unifilar gills. Until they possess upward of four 

 filaments, the gills scarcely exhibit a main' stem or pinniform structure 

 which is always obvious on the more complex gills. The main stem 

 curves rather sharply dorsad, tapering, and bearing along its lateral 

 side the filaments, which diminish in size to the last. On anterior 

 segments the filaments are shorter than the notocirrus, but farther 

 back they are longer. New ones appear to be added from the growing 

 point at the tip of the stem. Branch blood-vessels from the main 

 trunk enter all of the filaments. 



Neuropodial acicula, which on anterior parapodia are not very 

 clearly distinguished from the setse, are from three to five in a row, 

 rather stout, tapered gently to near the end and then abruptly into 

 slender, very acute projecting tips, appearing at the bases of the 

 dorsal setse. Notopodial acicula are very long and slender fibers 

 which enter the base of the notopodium and continue far into the 

 cirrus (fig. 71). Perhaps they would be more correctly described as 

 buried setae. 



Except the large ventral crochets, all setae are colorless or nearly so. 

 All segments bear a small tuft of slender, acute, capillary setae dorsal 

 to the acicula, among the bases of which are a very few much more 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 269 



delicate and inconspicuous asymmetrical pectinate setae with one 

 margin prolonged (fig. 73). The first five parapodia bear in the ante- 

 rior and ventral part of the fascicle a few larger setae or hooded crochets 

 (fig. 72) with two accessory teeth below the principal hook and the 

 guards but little prolonged. Some of the larger ones show traces of 

 an articulation near the end. Parapodia succeeding these have the 

 crochets replaced by short setae with mucronate tips and narrow 

 limbae. These gradually disappear and no trace of them remains 

 at XXV. Somewhere between this point and somite L, the exact 

 segment undetermined, appear two stout yellow bidentate guarded 

 crochets (fig. 74) projecting slightly and obliquely from below the 

 acicula. 



The jaws are imperfectly chituiized, being soft and delicate and 

 except at a few thickened points, pale brown. Mandibles probably 

 abnormal, very small, the form of one half being shown in two pieces 

 in (PI. XVII, fig. 75). Maxillae (fig. 76) have long, acute, strongly 

 curved forceps jaws with nearly circular carriers. The two plates of 

 II on the left side have, respectively, six and seven teeth, on the right 

 side eight or nine teeth. Plate III of each side bears an unusually 

 large basal wing and six small teeth; IV is small and bears a single 

 tooth. 



No color remains. This species is known only from the type and a 

 small portion of the middle region of another specimen from station 

 4,401. 



Stations 4,326, Soledad Hill, Point La JoUa, vicinity San Diego; 

 243-280 fathoms, soft green mud; 4,401, Lat. 32° 52' 40" N., Long. 

 118° 13' 40" W., 448-468 fathoms, gi-een mud and black sand. 

 OnupMs nebalosa sp. nov. PI. XVII, figs. 58-68. 



This species has the anterior end slender with prominently out- 

 standing parapodia, the remainder of the body, so far as known, 

 depressed and of very uniform width and the small gills beginning on 

 VIII or IX. The type, consisting of the prostomium and 83 anterior 

 segments, is 25 mm. long and has a maximum width, exclusive of the 

 parapodia, of 1.3 mm. 



Prostomium about four-fifths as long as wide, elliptical with an 

 anterior median emargination, strongly convex above. No eyes 

 detected. Frontal tentacles ovate, about one- third longer than wide 

 and about half as long as the prostomium, arising on the frontal border 

 of prostomium separated by a space of one-half their diameter and bent 

 strongly downward. Anterior paired tentacles arise from antero- 

 lateral border immediately behind frontal tentacles; their ceratophores 




270 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



about equal to frontal tentacles, quadri-annulate ; styles two and 

 one-half times as long as ceratophores and reaching to middle of II. 

 Posterior paired tentacles arise on the dorsal surface opposite the 

 middle of the prostomium and just within its lateral borders; cerato- 

 phores similar to those of the anterior pair; styles reach somite VII 

 or VIII. Median tentacle behind center of prostomium, similar to 

 posterior paired tentacles, but somewhat shorter, reaching only to 

 VI or VII, Palps cushion-like, arising from posterior ventral surface 

 close to mouth, diverging from median line, the broadly rounded ends 

 projecting beyond the sides of the prostomium. 



Peristomium very short above' in the median line only about 

 one-half as long as the prostomium, nearly twice as long at the sides 

 and carried forward to embrace the prostomium, the cephalic margin 

 as a consequence being deeply concave. Ventrally it forms the usual 

 bilobed lip, which is quite distinct from II. Nuchal cirri arise from 

 extreme anterior border of peristomium in line with the posterior 

 paired tentacles and separated by a distance of twice their length, very 

 slender and tapered. Somites II and III equal and elongated, each 

 as long as prostomium and peristomium combined^ but no wider than 

 the latter. Both are simple segments, widest anteriorly. Behind III 

 the segments gradually increase in width and decrease in length to X, 

 from which they remain nearly uniform for the length of the piece, 

 being quite simple and about five times as wide as long; dorsally they 

 are flat, ventrally strongly convex, the parapodia arising high up. 

 Furrows well-marked and clean-cut and the cuticle very smooth and 

 highly iridescent. 



Anterior parapodia (PL XVII, figs. 58 and 59) elongated and rather 

 slender, prominently outstanding and fully equalling the width of 

 their somites, from the anterior ends of which they arise. The first 

 two are directed somewhat forward, but little more than those of 

 0. vexillaria. From the ventral level of the first they gradually rise 

 until the dorsal level is attained by the eighth. No important differ- 

 ence is noticeable among the fii'st seven or eight. All have the some- 

 what prolonged, slightly flattened, neuropodial bodj^ terminated by 

 a short and broadly rounded presetal lip and a moderately prolonged 

 postsetal lip decidedly flattened at the base. Notocirri and neuro- 

 cirri clavate, with thickened bases and more slender distal parts 

 ending bluntly ; the former are longer than the postsetal lips and more 

 slender, and below their thickened bases, borne on a slightly con- 

 stricted notopodial base; the neurocirri more proximal in origin and 

 equal to or shorter than the postsetal lip. At the eighth foot the 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 271 



neurocirrus begins to undergo rapid reduction, and by the eleventh 

 its conical form and cirrus character are lost and it has assumed the 

 form of a low, smooth, rounded, opake and whitish swelling, which 

 increases in size to about XXV and then diminishes gradually, though 

 it remains as a small whitish spot even at the end of the piece. The 

 postsetal lobe retains its character longer, undergoing very gradual 

 reduction after X and shifting more ventrad. Even at XX it is quite 

 as long as the body of the parapodium and of a short conical or sub- 

 triangular form. At L (fig. 60) it is a minute blunt papilla, ventro- 

 caudad of the seta tuft, and farther back disappears altogether. 

 Notocirri become more slender, but retain their length, continuing to 

 reach the middle line as far back at least as the eighty-ninth segment. 

 In the middle region the bodies of the parapodia are reduced and 

 somewhat compressed and bluntly rounded, and are situated near 

 the level of the dorsum. 



On the three specimens known the gills begin as single filaments 

 on somites VIII or IX and never possess more than four filaments, 

 and that number only rarely. Two filaments appear at from XXII 

 to XXVI, three at from XXXIII to XL and continue to LVI or LXIX 

 where the number is reduced to two again and so continues to the end 

 of the several pieces. Not infrequently a segment fails to develop 

 a gill on one or both sides and frequently the number of filaments is 

 below the normal of the region. The gills, though of few filaments, 

 are typically pinnate (fig. 60) and the filaments rather thick and short, 

 the longest very constantly reaching just to the median line. They 

 arise on the dorsal side of the notocirri on a common notopodial base. 



Acicula of anterior neuropodia usually three, yellow, stout, tapered, 

 gently curved and terminated by long freely projecting mucronate 

 tips. On posterior neuropodia there are often only two acicula which 

 'are like the anterior ones except that they are rather abruptly bent 

 near the distal end. Notopodial acicula are three or four delicate 

 fibers which enter the base of the notocirrus. 



Setae are of vitreous structure and all more or less yellow, the more 

 slender ones being very pale, the stouter ones deeper. The usual four 

 kinds occur, but they present greater variation and more transition 

 forms than usual. Articulated crochets (PI. XVII, figs. 61, 62) are 

 confined to the first eight parapodia. On the first three they occur 

 in an irregular, open, vertical, preacicular series of three or four, one 

 of two on the acicular tubercle beneath the aciculum and one post- 

 acicular — about six or seven in all. On the fourth foot (V) those in the 

 dorsalmost part of the fascicle are replaced by simple acute setae, but 




272 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



at least one compound crochet persists to the eighth foot and three 

 to the seventh. They are rather slender, with well-developed articu- 

 lation and distal pieces that vary much in length (figs. 61 and 62) the 

 longest being dorsal, the shortest ventral. They end in a slender, 

 acute, strongly hooked tip, beneath which are two prominent and acute 

 spurs, the whole enclosed in a split guard closely fitting the terminal 

 hook and scarcely prolonged beyond it. Simple, acute setse are 

 represented by one or two small ones on the first and second parapodia, 

 but are not clearly distinguished from the acicula, above and behind 

 which they lie. Farther back they become more numerous, longer, 

 much more slender, and finally^even the very narrow limbus that they 

 present anteriorly disappears. On posterior parapodia the fascicle 

 is composed exclusively of six or eight setae of this type. In the 

 subacicular region the articulated crochets are replaced by short, 

 rather broad, acute setae, more or less distinctly articulated (fig. 63). 

 Such setae continue to between somites XV and XX. The larger 

 articulated crochet which appears in the acicular process of anterior 

 parapodia seems to persist, become stouter, lose its articulation and 

 gradually its terminal hook (fig. 65), thus becoming converted into a 

 simple bidentate hooded crochet similar to those occurring on pos- 

 terior segments. This transition is well shown up to somite XV of 

 the mounted cotype. Apparently, however, there is a gap between 

 the last of these and the first of the posterior simple crochets, two of 

 which appear together ventral to the acicula at about somite XX of 

 these specimens. Unlike the anterior crochets, they project only 

 slightly. They are deep yellow, stout, bifid, with the main tooth below 

 and have the end enclosed in the usual cleft hood (fig. 66). Pectinate 

 setae (fig. 64) occur in the dorsal fascicle of most segments, but their 

 exact distribution was not determined. They are very delicate, with 

 the widened end very little curved and bearing only a small number • 

 of rather long processes. 



Jaws described from a single dissection. Mandibles (fig. 67) soft 

 and thin, the carriers nearly colorless with a black streak distally, 

 narrow, of nearly uniform diameter, lightly united at the distal end; 

 masticatory plates white, irregularly trapezoidal, each divided by a 

 deep anterior notch into two large teeth, each of which is again notched. 

 Maxillae (fig. 68) thin, very pale brown with narrow deep brown 

 marginal lines and thickenings; carriers of forceps-jaws as wide as long, 

 shield-shaped, with straight transverse hinge line; basal half of forceps 

 thickened, distal slender, regularly tapered, moderately curved and 

 acute. Maxillae II large, subtriangular plates, each of the three bearing 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 273 



ten (or the outer left, nine) small, regular close teeth. Maxillae III 

 curved, ridge-like pieces, the left with six, the right with eight small 

 teeth. Maxillae IV very small, edentulous. 



Color generally dull olive-gray, becoming purplish and more iri- 

 descent anteriorly, except on the parapodia and cephalic appendages. 

 Dorsum and to a less extent the sides obscurely clouded, or on one 

 specimen distinctly mottled with dusky. Except on the first ten or 

 twelve segments, there is a more or less distinct double dorsal median 

 dark brown line showing a tendency to break into metameric spots. 

 A series of dorso-lateral spots above the parapodia. Like so many 

 of the species taken at the same station, the surface is marked with 

 strictly quadrate spots scattered over the head and its appendages, 

 parapodia and body segments. 



A complete tube is 152 mm. long and has an external diameter of 2.5 

 to 3 mm. Its foundation is a rather tough membraneous lining inter- 

 mediate in character to that of ordinary Nothria and Hyalinoecia tubes 

 and having a diameter of 1.4 mm. The tubes are very fragile and 

 covered externally with a thick but irregular layer of sand grains and 

 small pebbles. Many of them bear a few rather large pebbles, especially 

 near the lower end, where they probably serve as anchors. One is 

 peculiar in the development at one end of an expanded disk, from the 

 margins of which radiate irregularly a number of hollow fibers or 

 minute tubes probably the work of another than the rightful occupant. 



Thirty tubes and three worms were taken at the only station, 4,454, 

 off Point Pinos Lighthouse, Monterey Bay, 65-71 fathoms, green mud, 

 sand and gravel. 



Diopatra ornata sp. nov. PI. XVIII, figs. 77-85. 



So far as known, this species is below the size usual in the genus, but 

 all of the four specimens are incomplete. The type and most complete 

 one is in three pieces, having an aggregate length of 84 mm. and 121 

 segments. Maximum width (at XX) of body only 3 mm., between 

 tips of parapodia 4 mm.; depth 1.8 mm. 



As viewed antero-dorsally, the prostomium is nearly circular, being 

 bent downward with a nearly vertical flattened frontal face, the seven 

 tentacles almost in contact at their bases, radiating regularly from 

 ^ a point anterior to the center of the prostomium, the flattened circle 

 enclosed by their bases scarcely exceeding the sectional area of any one 

 of the tentacles, while the region posterior to the tentacles is strongly 

 convex. Frontal tentacles almost in contact on anterior margin, about 

 as long as prostomium, conical, obscurely annulated. Anterior paired 




274 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



tentacles situated slightly dorsal to margin, immediately behind and 

 almost in contact with frontal tentacles, reaching to VII or VIII; 

 the ceratophores slightly longer than frontal tentacles, divided to the 

 end into eight or ten annuli ; the styles smooth and slender. Posterior 

 paired tentacles on dorsum well back from margin and immediately 

 above and behind anterior paired, reaching to XV or XVI; cerato- 

 phores shorter and stouter than anterior paired, nine- to eleven-annu- 

 late. Median tentacle posterior to middle of prostomium, reaching 

 XIV, with a shorter ceratophore having nine annuli. Apparently all of 

 the tentacles have lost a short portion of the tip and each one is marked 

 by a more or less distinct broad purple zone. Palps prominent, 

 divergent and directed ventrad, bilobed by a shallow transverse 

 furrow. No eyes detected and 'pigmented eyes certainly absent. 



Peristomium nearly as long as prostomium, its anterior end scarcely 

 wider, little concave and its sides continuous with prostomium, its 

 dorsum strongly convex. Nuchal cirri on anterior margin of peristo- 

 mium, slightly longer than prostomium and reaching two-thirds or 

 three-fourths to base of opposite cirrus, regularly tapered from base 

 to tip, often with a purple spot. Ventrally the peristomium forms a 

 pair of thick folds behind the palps and a bilobed hinder lip. The 

 next two segments, each about as long as peristomium, slightly carried 

 forward at sides to bear parapodia and embrace the preceding segment, 

 but not conspicuously enlarged. Succeeding segments become 

 slightly wider to about XV, after which they remain practically un- 

 changed. Those of middle region about four times as wide as long, 

 smooth, simple, rather strongly depressed. Pygidium unknown. 



Parapodia of the prebranchial region (PI. XVIII, fig. 77) large and 

 prominent, the undivided body alone of the first three exceeding 

 one-half the width of their segments, projecting somewhat forward 

 from the anterior ventro-lateral region of their segments. They have 

 stout, slightly compressed, subtruncate, cross-furrowed, chiefly neuro- 

 podial bodies and the usual notocirrus, neurocirrus and postsetal lobe 

 or middle cirrus, all of which are rather stout and subconical, the 

 postsetal lobe being somewhat flattened and the notocirrus about one 

 and one-half times as long as the others, with a basal constriction. 

 The fourth foot (on somite V) is similar to the three preceding ones, 

 but decidedly smaller. With the fifth a considerable reduction in 

 size takes place and the parapodia have approached the dorsum, at 

 which level all succeeding ones remain, the body becoming at the same 

 time much reduced, short, truncate, subconical and directed somewhat 

 dorsad. At the fifth parapodium the neurocirrus becomes much 




I 



1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 275 



shorter and bluntly rounded at the apex ; at the sixth it is replaced by 

 an oval glandular swelling, which increases in area but becomes less 

 elevated for six or seven segments and then undergoes gradual reduction 

 in the post-branchial region. After the appearance of the gills on VI 

 the notocirrus also undergoes reduction, but so gradually that a small 

 cirrus is still present on the one hundred and twenty-first segment. ' 

 The postsetal lobe becomes smaller simultaneously with the notocirrus, 

 but much more rapidly, soon becoming minute and shifting to a post- 

 setal position and practically disappearing by the end of the branchial 

 region. 



Gills begin on somite VI and continue to XLIX to IjII on the 

 several specimens. They arise on the dorsal side of the base of the 

 parapodia by a stout base, on the ventral or lateral side of which the 

 neurocirrus is borne (PI. XVIII, fig. 78). Several anterior pairs are 

 very large, the second in all cases exceeding all of the others and 

 reaching quite to the tip of the notocirrus of the opposite side, the 

 first being about seven-eighths and the third about three-fourths or 

 more as long as the second. Succeeding ones diminish in length, at 

 first rapidly, then slowly, the eighth equalling the body width, the 

 twenty-first reaching the middle line, the forty-first being only as 

 long as the notocirrus. Anterior gills are tall and slender when fully 

 extended, being shaped much like Lombardy poplar trees. The 

 trunks have stout, feebly annulated bases above which they taper and 

 are spirally twisted, bearing numerous, rather short spirally arranged 

 filaments which become smaller distally. This spiral arrangement 

 of the gills persists to at least XXXV, the number of turns varying 

 with the length of the gill, the second and longest having twelve. 

 Beyond somite XXXV, the trunks have become so short and the 

 filaments so crowded that the appearance is brush-like. At XL there 

 are only three short filaments, and the last seven gills consist of a 

 single filament, each of which gradually diminishes in length. 



Neuropodial acicula three or four, tapered, curved, terminating in 

 acute tips projecting beyond the end of the acicular process. Noto- 

 podials one or two delicate rods or a bundle of fibers. 



Setse of the first four parapodia (II-V) chiefly compound crochets 

 (PI. XVIII, 79 and 80) arranged in a loose vertical preacicular series 

 of about six or eight, of which one, much stouter than the others, is 

 subacicular and one more slender postacicular. The latter (fig. 80) 

 has the appendage considerably longer than the rest. All have the 

 articulation well-developed, the end very strongly hooked and provided 

 with a prominent accessory spur and well-developed guard, the end of 




276 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



which is somewhat obliquely prolonged. On at least the first bran- 

 chiate parapodium a few semicompound, sometimes acute (fig. 81), 

 sometimes obscurely hooked setae persist, but give place to true acute 

 simple setae on subsequent segments. A few short, simple setae occur 

 in the dorsal part of the supra-acicular region of the first foot, and they 

 soon form a well-marked, curved, horizontal series dorsal to the acicular 

 process. These setae are slender with a very narrow limbus. On 

 anterior branchiate parapodia, beginning with VI and continuing to 

 about XXX is a vertical row of five or six short, stouter, thickened, 

 but alimbate setae forming a vertical preacicular fascicle. These 

 disappear as the gills become short and the stout ventral crochets 

 appear, leaving only the dorsal group of acute setae, which become 

 longer. Beginning somewhere between VI and X, and at first few 

 in number, but increasing to a compact tuft clustered among the 

 dorsal acute'setae and persisting with them to the end of the worm, are 

 delicate gouge-shaped setae with finely pectinate border (fig. 82). A 

 stout yellow crochet (fig. 83) appears below the acicula at about XXX 

 and a few segments behind is joined by a second; they have a strong 

 beak, short, thick accessory tooth and a pair of small guards. 



Mandibles dark brown with pale masticatory plates. Stems rather 

 broad, of nearly uniform width, the distal end scarcely widened, the 

 two sides very slightly united by a slender and short isthmus. Mas- 

 ticatory plates small, transversely elliptical, scarcely toothed (fig. 84). 

 Maxillae (fig. 85) dark brown, massive, opake. Forceps jaws (I) 

 massive, the carriers broad, together nearly orbicular with a flexible 

 median joint and a posterior median notch; hinge line short; forceps 

 with basal half thick, tapered to the incurved subacute ends. Maxillae 

 II broad, triangular, the cotype figured with the inner left plate absent, 

 the remaining pair nearly symmetrical, the left with seven, the right 

 with eight teeth, the most anterior in each case being larger than the 

 others. The type has the normal arrangement of two pieces on the 

 left side and one on the right, each bearing seven teeth like those 

 figured. Maxilla III large cm-ved plates usually with eight unequal 

 teeth on each side. Maxilla IV small plates bearing a single small 

 tooth. 



Color generally faded to a dull gray, the anterior end slightly pur- 

 plish and purple zones on the cephalic tentacles and spots at the base 

 of the nuchal cirri. Cuticle slightly iridescent. 



Some fragments of the exposed ends of tubes have the usual structure, 

 with a tough, parchment-like basis thickly covered with pebbles, bits 

 of shells, coral and other hard bodies mostly arranged transversely. 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 277 



They closely resemble the tubes of Diopatra cuprea, but are scarcely 

 more than one-half their diameter. 



Stations 4,457 (tubes only), off Point Pinos Lighthouse, Monterey 

 Bay, 40-46 fathoms, dark green mud ; 4,467, off Santa Cruz Lighthouse, 

 51-54 fathoms, soft dark gi-een mud; 4,519, off Point Pinos Light- 

 house, 27-35 fathoms, hard gray sand (t3^e). 

 Hyaliuoeoia juvenalis sp. nov. PI XVIII, figs. 86-95. 



A small species represented by the anterior ends of two individuals, 

 which, though mature, retain certain characters of setae, etc., which are 

 found in quite young examples only of H. tubicola. The cotype, 

 comprising the head and 35 segments, is 19 mm. long and 1.9 mm. m 

 maximum width. The type, of the same size, has 32 segments and a 

 posterior regenerating cone. 



Prostomium trapezoidal, the greatest width posterior and about 

 one-third more than the length, the anterior and posterior sides convex, 

 the converging lateral sides nearly straight. Frontal tentacles small, 

 less than one-third length of prostomium, situated at antero-lateral 

 angles, directed somewhat ventrad, but little divergent, subfusiform, 

 about twice as long as thick, the pedicles much constricted. Median 

 and posterior lateral tentacles situated well within posterior half of 

 prostomium close together on dorsal face; anterior lateral tentacles 

 farther forward on lateral margin. Ceratophores of anterior paired 

 tentacles about as long as thick and 4- annulate, styles thickish and 

 stout, barely reaching III. Ceratophores of median and posterior 

 paired tentacles very short, obscurely divided into three annuli, the 

 styles smooth, moderately slender, about one-half the diameter of the 

 anterior pair, tapered, the median reaching to IX, the longest lateral 

 to XL Eyes black, very conspicuous, immediately behind the ante- 

 rior and below the posterior paired tentacles. The tj^e has h)ut one 

 pair about one-half the diameter of the base of the anterior tentacles; 

 the cotype bears a second pair, almost as conspicuous and immediately 

 dorsal to the first pair. Palps rather small, about one-third width of 

 prostomium, globoid, directed ventrad immediately in front of mouth 

 and only slightly in contact medially. 



Peristomium small, scarcely wider than prostomium and less than 

 one-half as long, bearing the bilobed posterior lip. Somite II very 

 much larger, nearly twice as wide and three times as long as the 

 peristomium, extending forward and embracing the sides of the latter. 

 The next few segments diminish in length rapidly until the normal 

 length to width ratio of one to four or five is reached at somite VI. 

 Beyond this point the segments continue to increase in size and the 




278 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



maximum diameter is probably not quite attained in these pieces. 

 The first few segments are firm-walled and bounded by deep furrows, 

 but farther back they become softer and the furrows shallower. All 

 are nearly terete, but slightly fiattened and grooved ventrally. Py- 

 gidium a very small, short, truncate cone bearing a pair of very slender 

 tapering cirri about one and one-fourth times the greatest diameter 

 of the body. 



Parapodia generally similar to those of larger species, but relatively 

 less enlarged and prominent. First pair (on II) largest, projecting 

 forv/ard and slightly ventrad, but barely reaching level of anterior 

 border of palps, truncate, conical, transversely furrowed and terminated 

 by a broad, flat, prominent, preacicular lip and a slender but about 

 equally long, more cirriform postacicular lip. Both notocirri and 

 neurocirri are simple, conical styles without differentiated cirrophore 

 and of similar form and size, not quite reaching the end of the terminal 

 lips, the neurocirrus arising on the antero-ventral part of the base of 

 the neuropodium close to the side of the mouth, the notocirrus nearly 

 half-way out on the postero-dorsal aspect of the foot. The second 

 foot (PI. XVIII, fig. 86) is similar, but decidedly smaller and projects 

 very little forward and ventrad. The third is modified still farther 

 in these respects, and the fourth (fig. 87) has attained the typical 

 position and nearly typical proportions and differs particularly from 

 preceding parapodia in its much shorter, blunt neurocirrus. The one 

 figured (fig. 87) has the postsetal lip abnormally bifid. On the first 

 parapodium the postsetal lip is shorter than the presetal, but on the 

 second this relation is reversed and the latter disparity becomes more 

 pronounced on succeeding parapodia until at somite X the postsetal 

 lip becomes again reduced to the length of the presetal lip and assumes 

 the form of a small cylindroid papilla. This continues to diminish, 

 shifts to a more ventral position and finally disappears, leaving only 

 the short, broadly rounded presetal lip of the low, flat parapodia of 

 middle segments (fig. 88). Notocirri undergo very regular and gradual 

 diminution in size and with the appearance of the gills (about XX) 

 have become quite minute and little longer than the presetal lip, ap- 

 pearmg as small processes from the outer side of the base of the gills. 

 Neurocirri remain the same for the first three parapodia and then very 

 abruptly become altered to a small, thick papilla, which in the course 

 of one or two more segments becomes absorbed into a low swelling 

 and extensive glandular region ventral to the parapodium. 



On the cotype gills begin symmetrically on XIX; on the type there 

 is a small one on one side of XVIII, fully developed ones on both sides. 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 279 



of XIX, none on XX and then from both sides of XXI caudad. On 

 both specimens they continue to increase in length gradually and 

 probably reach their maximum size at XXIII where they about reach 

 the dorsimeson and are five to six times the length of the dorsal cirrus, 

 the length of which, indeed, scarcely exceeds their diameter (fig. 88). 

 They have the usual structure, being coarse filaments containing a 

 large axial blood-vessel, and within the limits of the piece exhibit no 

 indication of becoming flattened. 



Neuropodial acicula pale yellow, generally three, but posteriorly 

 only two, stout, tapered, slightly curved, the pointed apices projecting 

 only slightly beyond the integument. Notopodial acicula a small 

 fascicle of fibers. 



Setse of four kinds. The first three parapodia bear a few stout, 

 compound crochets in a vertical series. They are especially large 

 on the first and project freely forward. On the second and third 

 parapodia (fig. 89) they become smaller and paler in color. None 

 seem to be truly compound, but the oblique joint is imperfect and near 

 the end. The shaft or portion of the setse proximad of this interrup- 

 tion is slightly thickened in its distal portion and minutely roughened, 

 partly with minute imbricated, antrorse scales and partly with minute 

 hairs. The distal piece or appendage is somewhat recurved, tapered 

 to the peculiarly formed bidentate tip, which is enclosed in a pair of 

 broad obliquely truncate guards. It is possible that larger specimens 

 (should such occur) would lose some of these characters through wear. 

 Beginning on the fourth foot (V), the compound crochets (one or two 

 of which may remain, though there are none on these specimens) are 

 replaced by simple setse which are characterized by a finely roughened 

 enlargement beyond which they taper to an acute curved tip. Farther 

 back these setse are partly reduced in size, but chiefly transformed into 

 small supra-acicular and subacicular fascicles of simple setse with 

 broadly bilimbate, lanceolate blades (fig. 91). Associated with these 

 setse in the dorsal fascicle, beginning on the second foot is a dense 

 tuft of very delicate pectinate setae, the abruptly widened end of which 

 (fig. 92) is bent into semicircular form and bears about thirty regular 

 and equal teeth and mucrons. On posterior segments they become 

 much wider and flatter. Beginning at about somite XX, two stout, 

 yellow, slightly clavate, bluntly rounded bidentate and guarded 

 crochets appear in the subacicular fascicle of each crochet (fig. 90). 



Jaws thin and fragile, but hard and well-chitinized. Mandibles (figs. 

 93 and 94) pale brown, with some dark streaks, the stems regularly 

 tapered, slightly enlarged at the distal end where the two are feebly 




280 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



united. Masticatory plates white and hard, slender, ovate, with 

 smooth or slightly wavy margins, borne in a distal depression of the 

 stem which projects beyond the masticatory plate on the lateral side 

 as a blunt tooth. The mandibles of the type are much larger than 

 those of the cotype, though the two worms differ but little in size. 

 Maxillae (fig. 95) pale brown, the teeth and other thickened parts 

 darker. Carriers of forceps-jaws (I) broad, together about four-fifths 

 length, subquadrate, with a short, blunt projection at the postero- 

 lateral angle; the forceps with basal half broad and nearly straight, 

 the distal half slender, tapered and not very strongly hooked. Max- 

 illae II, outer left plate with thirteen large and one or more very small 

 posterior teeth, inner left with twelve teeth, right plate with fourteen 

 or sixteen or even more teeth. Maxillae III, left with seven to nine 

 small teeth, right with about ten teeth. Maxilla IV, delicate, with one 

 small tooth or none. 



Generally pale or colorless, a small, indefinite, median dorsal, purple 

 spot on anterior dorsal part of prostomium, a pair of small ventral 

 spots below outer lateral tentacles, small brown spots at base of 

 notocirri and a few dark speckles on anterior segments. Cuticle only 

 slightly iridescent. 



A probably incomplete tube is 65 mm. long, slightly curved and 

 tapered, the large end being 2.5 mm., the smaller 2.2 mm. The surface 

 is rougher than that of small tubes of H. tubicola and the annulations 

 are 2 mm. apart and obscure. Although translucent and nearly free 

 of incrustations, it is not possible to determine the character of the 

 valves. 



An empty tube has living within it a small polynoid, not yet removed 

 for examination, and, completely closing the larger orifice so that the 

 annelid could not leave, is a small hermit crab {Ewpagurus or Para- 

 pagurus) with very unequal chela, the right being much the larger 

 and forming a symmetrical plug beautifully adapted to the form and 

 size of the tube. 



Type and only station 4,431, off Santa Rosa Island, 38-45 fathoms, 

 varied bottom. 



Hyalinoecia tubioola (Mailer) Malmgren, itriota subsp. nov. PI. XVIII, figs. 96, 97. 



Hyalinoecia tubicola Malmgren, Of versigt Kongl. Vetens-Akad. Forh., XXIV 

 (1867), 181, 2, Taf. IX, fig. 49. 



This is a form of large size, as indicated by the measurements of the 

 tubes given below, somewhat exceeding H. artifex Verrill. In many 

 respects it resembles H. t. longihranchiata Mcintosh, from the vicinity 

 of New Zealand, but has no eyes. 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 281 



Ceratophores of cephalic tentacles, either not annulated or obscurely 

 3- or 4-annulate. Anterior paired tentacle reaches IV or V, posterior 

 paired XIII to XVII on different specimens, and median tentacle 

 usually to XX. Somite II is much enlarged, being fully double the 

 length of the peristomium, and its very large stout parapodia bear 

 three or four stout spines which reach quite to the anterior level of the 

 prostomium. Neurocirri of the first parapodium lie close to the sides 

 of the mouth ; they diminish in size after the third foot (IV) and become 

 obsolete after VII. On different specimens the gills begin on from 

 XXVI to XXX and at their maximum development reach about three- 

 fourths of the width of the dorsum. They continue to the twelfth 

 segment preceding the pygidium, becoming rapidly reduced in size 

 toward the caudal end. Pygidium ending in a furrowed circumanal 

 ring directed dorsad and bearing a pair of subanal cirri arising in 

 contact, fiagelliform, very slender and as long as the last eleven seg- 

 ments or twice diameter of body. 



The distinctive features of the subspecies are found mainly in the 

 large posterior crochets and the jaws. The former (PI. XVIII, fig. 97) 

 have the terminal teeth continued nearly in the direction of the 

 shaft and not placed at a considerable angle with it as in most forms. 

 Pectinate setae have the plates bent into two-thirds of a circle with 

 very numerous denticulations. A young specimen (about 2 mm. in 

 diameter) still retains on the large spines of anterior parapodia traces 

 of terminal teeth and guards (fig. 96). 



The maxillae are long, with numerous teeth : II left side outer plate 

 18 teeth, inner plate 15 teeth, right side 17 teeth; III, left 9 teeth, 

 right 10 teeth; IV rudimentary with one tooth on each side. Mandi- 

 bles have the two sides entirely distinct. 



The anterior end of the body and the head are minutely speckled 

 with pigment. 



A typical example of the more than thirty tubes in the collection is 

 198 mm. long, 4.5 mm. in diameter at the small and 6 mm. at the large 

 end. Others vary from 72 mm. long and 3 mm. in diameter to 236 

 mm, long and 7 mm. in diameter, the great majority being about 

 200 mm. long. They are gently curved and tapered and toward the 

 larger end elliptical, not circular, in section, the diameter in the plane 

 of curvature being slightly less, indicating a dorso-ventral depression. 

 The tubes have a quill-like texture, but are harder and more rigid than 

 any quill of similar size and can be cut with a knife only with difficulty. 

 The maximum thickness of more than ^ mm. is at the middle, where the 

 number of layers is greatest and diminishes most toward the large end 

 19 




282 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April^ 



where the last inch or so is rather soft and semicollapsible. For the 

 entire length the tube is marked with annular lines which, on a tube 

 198 mm, long, are 6.5 mm. apart at the small and end 5 mm. apart 

 at the large end. These annulations are formed by the exposed edges 

 of the successive layers of material, which are laid down on the inside 

 and project beyond the orifice to a distance equal to that between two 

 rings. Thus a tube showing thirty-five rings has probably been 

 constructed of as many successive layers of material. 



Both orifices are guarded against intrusion by several sets of soft 

 membraneous valves, usually three or four at the large end and proba- 

 bly as many at the small end. These are placed in pairs consisting of 

 a wide dorsal and a ventral flap or pocket attached obliquely to the 

 inside of the tube in such manner that the free borders directed toward 

 the orifice meet in the middle and thus effectually bar against entrance, 

 while yielding readily to pressure from within. Presumably, should 

 a worm leave its tube it would itself be debarred from re-entering. 

 One small tube (110 mm.) has the orifice ornamented with a few 

 foraminifera shells, sea-urchin spines and small pebbles. 



Evidently the tubes wear away at the small end, the worm occupying 

 the newer parts and building extensions at the large end and at the 

 same time removing old valves and replacing them by new pairs. 

 It is evident also that the length of additions decreases as the tubes 

 become larger and that there is much individual variation in this 

 respect. 



Old tubes are always covered with a friable black incrustation,, 

 except on the newer parts at the large end, and especially adherent 

 at the rings. Some of them also bear growths of hydroids and an 

 occasional barnacle (Scalpellum proximum Pilsbry) small tunicate 

 (Styela) or small actinian {Sagartia sp.) 



Found at only one station, but there in abundance : 4.387, vicinity 

 of San Diego, Lat. 32° 32' 40" N., Long. 118° 04' 20" W., 1,059 fathoms^ 

 green mud. 



LUMBRINERID^. 



This is another fairly well-represented family and from the point 

 of view of geographical distribution is interesting because, more than 

 any other family, it resembles the fauna of the southern Pacific coast 

 of South America. This resemblance is seen not alone in the fact, 

 that the two regions possess two species in common, but also in the 

 resemblance of other species which are distinct. 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 283 



Ninoe gemmea sp. nov. PI. XIX, figs. 101-109. 



Form moderately elongated, slender and terete, the anterior bran- 

 chiate region wider and depressed. A complete example (type) is 

 104 mm. long with a maximum width, exclusive of parapodia, of 2.4 

 mm. at XXX. Segments 146. 



Prostomium small, slightly longer than wide, distinctly depressed, 

 subovate, continuing the outline of the anterior end of the body 

 forward to a subacute apex, very smooth and differentiated only 

 indistinctly from the peristomium at the sides. The mid-dorsal 

 portion of the pro-peristomial furrow forms a broad but shallow, 

 semicircular or crescentic furrow, the horns of which end at a pair of 

 small translucent spots marking the tips of the forward lateral pro- 

 jections of the peristomium. It is uncertain whether or not a minute 

 obscure papilla exists at the bottom of this nuchal furrow. On the 

 ventral surface is a pair of slight submarginal longitudinal grooves 

 which meet the lateral furrows bounding the prominent quadrant- 

 shaped palps which are separated by a deep medial furrow. No eyes. 



The outline passing from the prostomium into the peristomium and 

 body is very regular and unbroken. Peristomium and somite II 

 apodous, together equalling the prostomium in length; the peristo- 

 mium longer at the sides, but dorsally cut into by a deep re-entering 

 bay, reducing it to the length of II. Ventrally they coalesce to form 

 a deeply furrowed lip. Segments simple, very smooth and regular, 

 and separated by deep, even furrows, the length to width ratio varying 

 from one to four or five at the anterior end to one to two at the posterior 

 end, toward which their length increases both relatively and actually. 

 From the point of greatest diameter at about XXX, the body tapers 

 very regularly and gently to the caudal end, being for most of the 

 length strictly terete. Cuticle highly polished, with a pearly irides- 

 cence. 



Pygidium a small, obliquely flaring ring, bearing at the sides of a 

 small ventral platform a pair of conical cirri about as long as the 

 diameter of the pygidium. 



Parapodia strictly lateral, uniramous, with quite rudimentary noto- 

 podium. The first few are very small, slightly compressed tubercles 

 with obsolete presetal lip and subfoliaceous, cuneate-ovate postsetal 

 lip as long as the body of the foot (PI. XIX, fig. 101). Farther 

 back, in the branchial region, the presetal lobe becomes a hemispherical 

 swelling, which is again lost posteriorly. At VI, or in one case, V, the 

 postsetal lip bifurcates, the ventral lobe remaining as before, the dorsal 

 being cirriform and slightly longer. On succeeding segments the 




284 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



latter becomes more distinct and larger than the other branchial 

 filaments and curves somewhat dorsad into a suberect position 

 (fig. 102). The remainder of the postsetal lip then divides into the 

 filaments of the digitate gill, the ventralmost filament of which retains 

 a trace of the foliaceous condition in a small basal wing. Otherwise 

 the branchial filaments resemble the dorsalmost filament or cirrus, and 

 where best developed only equal the foot in length and spread in a 

 palmate fashion (fig. 103). On the type there are two filaments at 

 X, three at XIII, continuing with three or occasionally four to XLIX. 

 The filaments increase in length to about XL and then rapidly dimmish 

 without change in number to XLIX, at which segment the dorsal one 

 alone remains. It bears a small basal wing and remains quite promi- 

 nent for many segments and finally after reduction to a small post- 

 setal papilla continues to the end. A slightly larger cotype has two 

 branchial filaments at VIII, three at XVI, four or rarely five between 

 XX and XLII and three from XLII to LII. In the postbranchial 

 region the parapodia (fig. 104) are more slender and relatively more 

 prominent, cylindroid with the end slightly cleft into presetal and 

 postsetal lips, the latter a subcorneal papilla. A minute notopodial 

 papilla at the dorsal base of the neuropodium of all segments. 



Neuropodial acicula black with pale bases, usually four, slightly 

 tapered to blunt tips which reach, but ordinarily do not project 

 beyond, the surface. Notopodial acicular fine fibers which pass from 

 the segments above the parapodia strongly ventrad, curving into the 

 notopodial tubercle. 



All setae have black or dark brown stems and pale ends, which on 

 the limbate setae includes the entire blade. All setae are simple, and 

 limbate setae and crochets occur together on all parapodia, the former 

 being more numerous on anterior, the latter on posterior parapodia. 

 All are very brittle and, owing to the frequency with which they are 

 broken, the exact arrangement was not determined. At least one 

 crochet occurs in the subacicular fascicle of III along with three or 

 four limbate setae, of which an equal number exist in the supra- 

 acicular fascicle. At X there are four supra-acicular acute limbate 

 setae, six subacicular limbate crochets and below these two more acute 

 setae. At XXV the numbers are respectively seven, five and one. 

 On posterior parapodia the usual arrangement is one acute seta and 

 one crochet in the supra-acicular fascicle and four crochets in the 

 subacicular fascicle. 



The pointed setae (PI. XIX, fig. 105) are of the usual bilimbate type 

 and either simply or sigmoidly curved. Some of those in the dorsal 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 285 



fascicle of anterior segments have the wings abruptly terminated and 

 the shaft continued as a very long acute mucron. They differ con- 

 siderably in length and proportions in the same bundle and posteriorly 

 all become much elongated and slender. Anterior crochets (figs. 

 106, 106a) are transitional to the acute limbate setae, having long, 

 slender limbate ends passing into delicate rounded hoods which 

 enclose the small, indistinctly toothed heads. Though gradually 

 diminishing in length, they undergo no conspicuous change through the 

 branchial region, but posteriorly become converted into true crochets 

 (fig. 107) which are alimbate, somewhat stouter and have shorter, 

 thicker ends and more inflated hoods enclosing a well-developed 

 beaked and crested head. 



Mandibles (PI. XIX, fig. 108) delicate, flexible and nearly white, ex- 

 cept that the tips of the masticatory plates and a pair of submedian 

 lines are black. Carriers or stems long and slender, separated for about 

 the posterior two-thirds of their length, firmly united anteriorly and 

 widened into a broad plate bearing the narrow, strongly curved con- 

 tinuous masticatory plate which terminates in a strongly but irregu- 

 larly toothed apex. Maxillae (PI. XIX, fig. 109) deep brown, opake, 

 the forceps jaws with long bases or carriers nearly equal to the jaws in 

 length, together having the outline of an urn, but not united medially; 

 hinges well-developed and the jaws very strongly and regularly curved. 

 The large dental plates (II) are massive, symmetrical and each provided 

 with a series of eight regidar stout teeth on the inner margm. Max- 

 illae III small, narrowly ovate with one large hooked tooth succeeded 

 by a slightly curved, serrate margin. Anterior maxillae (IV) large, 

 with similarly serrate, medial margin, but the large tooth less well- 

 developed. A pair of long, narrow, brown, chitinized bands lie at 

 the sides of the large dental plates. 



Integuments unpigmented, but cuticle with a beautiful pearly 

 luster. 



Known from three specimens, one each from stations 4,450 (type), 

 off Point Pinos Lighthouse, Monterey Bay, 55-60 fathoms, dark green 

 mud; 4,485, off Santa Cruz Lighthouse, Monterey Bay, 39-108 fathoms, 

 soft green mud and sand; 4,523, off Point Pinos Lighthouse, 75-108 

 fathoms, soft dark mud. 



NinoB fusoa sp. nov. PI. XIX, figs. 110-118. 



This species, described from a single incomplete specimen, has the 

 general Lumbrineris build, but is stouter and more depressed than 

 most species of the genus. The type, consisting of two pieces together 




286 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



comprising 120 anterior segments, is 48 mm. long and has a maximum 

 width of 3.5 mm. at somite XXV. 



Prostomium (PI. XIX, fig. 110) nearly an equilateral triangle with 

 bluntly rounded apex. A slightly elevated median dorsal field is 

 bounded by a pair of shallow grooves which extend from near the apex 

 to the nuchal fold where they include nearly one-half of the prostomial 

 width between them. At these points the prostomium is attached to 

 the peristomium by a pair of folds having almost the form of ball-and- 

 socket joints, separated medially by a deep nuchal pit much wider 

 than long and covered by a nuchal fold of the peristomium. No eyes. 

 Ventral surface smooth with a deep transverse fissure just anterior to 

 the palps. Palps subquadrate cushions separated by a median furrow, 

 their lateral ends trilobate and partially united with the peristomial 

 lip behind. Immediately behind them and anterior to the lip is a 

 small fold guarding the end of the mandible. 



Peristomium and II achsetous, together not as long as the prosto- 

 mium, but much wider ; I slightly longer and wider than II and thick- 

 ened below to form the lateral lobes of the lip. The anterior median 

 region of the peristomium forms a nuchal fold which roofs the nuchal 

 pit between it and the prostomium. When this is drawn back as in 

 fig. 110, the posterior or peristomial face of the pit is seen to bear a 

 vertical groove lodging a small and apparently retractile cirrus or 

 papilla, the merest tip only of which is visible when the fold is in place. 

 Anterior somites in general have the dorsum strongly arched and the 

 venter flattened. 



Except for the minute, scarcely noticeable notopodial tubercles, 

 the parapodia are uniramous. Anteriorly they are very small and 

 so near to the venter that they are scarcely visible from above. After 

 about XV they are larger and lateral, but remain nearer to the dorsal 

 than the ventral surface. They are short, thick, subcylindrical, 

 somewhat thickened at the distal end, the presetal portion of which 

 forms a hemispherical thickening. The postsetal lip is produced 

 dorso-distally into a small, erect finger-like cirrus or gill containing a 

 large vascular loop. This is fully developed on the first parapodium 

 (III) and undergoes no marked change in the first forty segments 

 (figs. Ill, 112), after which it gradually diminishes in size, the thickened 

 distal end of the foot undergoing simultaneous reduction. Toward the 

 end of the piece the parapodia (fig. 113) are more slender and taper 

 to simple blunt points. 



Neuropodial acicula are three or four, stout, slightly tapered black 

 rods with colorless bases, the tips bluntly pointed and either not 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 287 



projecting or projecting only slightly beyond the surface. Notopodial 

 acicula obsolete, corresponding to the extreme reduction of the noto- 

 podia. 



Setae moderate in number, disposed in a supra-acicular and a sub- 

 acicular fascicle, the former nearly horizontal, the latter vertical in 

 arrangement. At somite XV there are eight in the former, fifteen in 

 the latter, a number which is reduced posteriorly to three in each 

 group, of which the subacicular are crochets. All are dark brown at 

 the base, pale or colorless distally. Anteriorly acute setse (PI. XIX, 

 fig. 114) alone occur. They are long, slender, narrowly bilimbate and 

 slightly sigmoid with prolonged capillary tips. Those in the supra- 

 acicular fascicle longer than the subacicular, but otherwise similar. 

 On posterior parapodia they become shorter (fig. 115), It is impossible 

 to ascertain from the type alone at just what segment crochets appear, 

 but certainly none are present before somite L, and about LXX would 

 appear to mark the point of their appearance. They are slightly 

 stouter than the limbate setse, with slightly curved, not thickened 

 stems, ending in an imperfect small head enclosed in a delicate hood 

 (PI. XIX, fig. 116). 



Mandibles (PI. XIX, fig. 117) rather delicate, flexible, soft, white 

 with black or dark brown apices and parallel dark brown lines on the 

 masticatory plates and more delicate brown lines and a heavy median 

 dark band on the carriers. The anterior half of the carriers is a broad 

 solid piece, the posterior half a pair of slender slightly divergent stems. 

 Masticatory plate a continuous, narrow, hard, curved band bordering 

 the free end of the carrier and obscurely toothed at the apex. Maxillae 

 (PI. XIX, fig. 118) dark brown or black, opake. Forceps jaws with 

 base plate or carrier about two- thirds as long as jaws, ovate with a 

 constricted anterior end and straight hinge; the jaws with stout bases 

 and strongly curved ends. First dental plates (II) irregular and each 

 with only two large teeth on medial border. They are possibly 

 abnormal or much worn. The next plate (III) is small and narrow 

 with one large apical tooth, and the anterior plate (IV) is remarkably 

 large, triangular with a single stout tooth. 



Color uniform brown. 



This species is imperfectly known through a single specimen taken at 

 station 4,397, off Santa Catalina Islands, 33° 10' 15" N., 121° 42' 15" W., 

 2,196 to 2,228 fathoms, gray mud. 



Ninoe fusca is closely related to Ninoe simpla Moore previously 

 described from Alaskan waters. Both have the nuchal papilla and 

 simple unifilar gills and their setae are closely similar, but they dififer 




288 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



much in the form of the postsetal lip of the parapodia and of the 

 maxillae. These two species taken in conjunction with such species 

 of Lumbrineris as erecta and tetraura largely break down the distinction 

 based on the presence or absence of branchiae that is usually made 

 between the two genera. On the other hand, their possession of the 

 nuchal papilla segregates them from the majority of species of both 

 genera. 



The species of Lumbrineris and related genera of this region are 

 noteworthy because of their tendency to develop prolonged branchial 

 processes of the parapodia. This tendency seems to be most marked 

 in the fauna of the deeper waters of Monterey Bay and reaches its 

 maximum in L. hiflaris. 



Lumbrineris japonica ▼• Marenzeller, index subsp. nov. PI. XIX, figs. 119-127. 



Lumbriconereis japonica v. Marenzeller, Denkschr. K. Akad. Wissensch. 

 (1879), XLI, pp. 137, 138, Taf . V, fig. 3. 



This well-marked form presents a superficial resemblance to L. erecta 

 of the littoral zone of the coast of California, but its technical characters 

 so closely ally it with L. japonica that it is regarded as belonging to that 

 species. The chief peculiarity is found in the noteworthy elongation 

 of the postsetal lip of middle and posterior parapodia which is quite 

 as pronounced as in L. erecta. The erectness and rigidity characteristic 

 of these processes in the latter species is here absent; they are evi- 

 dently more flexible and mobile and usually directed laterad in many 

 cases (fig. 120), reminding one of a pointing finger. This feature does 

 not appear on anterior parapodia, on which the postsetal lips are 

 foliaceous, the digitiform or cirriform character usually becoming 

 pronounced by about somite XXXV. 



Articulated crochets occur as far forward as III on the type and 

 persist to XXV; on other specimens they were not detected anterior 

 to III, V or VIII, but continued as far as XXX, after which point 

 simple crochets only occur. Limbate setae may cease at LVI, as on 

 the type, or continue to LXXV. The form of these crochets differs 

 somewhat from those of Japanese examples of the species. (See 

 PI. XIX, figs. 124, 125.) There is a single chitinized area on each side 

 in connection with the maxillae, instead of two as in L. bifilaris. 



The jaws (PL XIX, figs. 126, 127) agree very closely with v. Maren- 

 zeller's figures. The maxillae are opake and very dark brown or nearly 

 black, the mandibles pale brown marked with darker brown lines 

 and the whitish masticatory plates tipped with a black edging. 



The type (station 4,464) is 109 mm. long with a maximum width 

 at XII of 2.8 mm. and between setae tips of 5.7 mm. Segments 201. 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 289 



Other specimens are slightly larger. Several specimens are marked 

 with coarse pigment spots arranged in transverse bands. 



Stations 4,325, off Point La Jolla, vicinity of San Diego, 191-292 

 fathoms, green mud and fine sand; 4,405, off San Clemente Island, 

 654-704 fathoms, green mud; 4,406, off Santa- Catalina Island, 650 

 fathoms, green mud; 4,452, Monterey Bay, off Point PinosXighthouse, 

 49-50 fathoms, green mud and fine sand ; 4,457, same locality, 40-46 

 fathoms, dark green mud; 4,464, same locality, 36-51 fathoms, soft 

 dark green mud; 4,467, Monterey Bay, off Santa Cruz Lighthouse, 

 51-54 fathoms, soft dark green mud. 



Lumbrineris inflata sp. nov. Pis. XIX, XX, figs. 128-134. 



A small and apparently an immature form. At least none of the 

 specimens contains genital products. It presents, however, so many 

 peculiar features that it is probably not the young of any species already 

 described from the Pacific. The type is 68 mm. long, with a maximum 

 width in the proboscis region of about 1 mm. Segments 134. The 

 largest specimen is an anterior end 1.5 mm. in diameter. Form linear, 

 tapering gently to the caudal end, terete. 



Prostomium thick and scarcely depressed, length equal to or slightly 

 exceeding width, subgloboid or short ellipsoid, sides and front equally 

 rounded, dorsum strongly convex, venter with a broad, shallow, 

 median groove. Eyes totally wanting. Nuchal isthmus and pit 

 narrow, the peristomium scarcely emarginated. Palps simple cushions, 

 wider than long. 



Peristomium distinctly longer than II, which is also apodous, the 

 two together equalling or slightly exceeding the prostomium in length. 

 Dorsally they are sharply differentiated by a distinct furrow and the 

 peristomium is slightly emarginated at the nuchal pit; ventrally they 

 are united to form the furrowed lip, II being produced forward and 

 cutting into I. Succeeding metastomial segments remarkably well- 

 differentiated by deep furrows and more or less biannulate or marked 

 with a narrow, raised, whitish line; anterior segments about three 

 times as wide as long, posterior nearly as long as wide. Pygidium a 

 minute, slightly widened ring bearing four short, equal, symmetrical, 

 conical cirri. 



Parapodia (PI. XIX, figs. 128, 129) arise nearer the ventral than 

 the dorsal surface, especially toward the ends of the body, and are of 

 simple, uniform structure throughout. Neuropodia slightly thickened 

 distally, divided at the end into a very short presetal lobe and a longer, 

 stiffly outstanding postsetal lobe about equalling the body of the 




290 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



neuropodium in length. Instead of increasing in length and becoming 

 cirriform and highly vascular caudally, as is the case with most species 

 of Lumbrineris inhabiting this region, the postsetal lobe, if changed at 

 all, becomes somewhat smaller posteriorly and never shows any 

 indication of becoming erect. A minute papilla at the dorsal side of 

 the base of the neuropodium represents the notopodium. 



Neuropodial acicula two or three, pale brown, of the usual tapering 

 form, the tips not appearing beyond the surface. Notopodial acicula 

 very delicate, their ends imbedded in a spherical opake mass. 



Setae all colorless, of the usual simple limbate and hooded crochet 

 t3q)es, the former on the first thirty to forty segments only, the latter 

 on all segments. The number of setae is moderate, their distibution 

 on the type being as follows: the first foot (III) has seven limbate 

 setae and two articulated crochets; X has five limbate setae in the 

 supra-acicular fascicle and four articulated crochets and one limbate 

 seta in the subacicular fascicle; XXV has three supra-acicular lim- 

 bate setae and two subacicular crochets, of which the ventralmost is 

 simple; middle parapodia have three or four simple crochets, with 

 which a limbate seta may be associated as far as XL. Other examples 

 have a practically similar distribution, but the last compound crochet 

 may occur at XVIII and the first simple one at XVII. The limbate 

 setae (PI. XIX, fig. 130) are in no way characteristic ; they are rather 

 sharply bent, very acute and the blades narrowly lanceolate. Crochets 

 of anterior parapodia (PI. XIX, fig. 131) are imperfectly compound, 

 with an oblique articulation that divides the stem but not the hood, 

 which is, however, adherent to the stem in such a manner as to produce 

 a rather pronounced double inflation; the stem terminates in a high, 

 finely divided crest. Simple crochets (fig. 132) have a short, strongly 

 inflated hood and a long-beaked head surmounted by a crest of fine 

 teeth. 



Jaws much like those of L. hebes Verrill. Mandibles in one specimen 

 rudimentary, in another (PI. XX, fig. 133) colorless and delicate, 

 stems long and slender, united by their anterior halves ; masticatory 

 plates very oblique, separated by a deep anterior cleft, each when 

 intact with a large apical and a somewhat smaller internal tooth. 

 Maxillae (fig. 134) dark brown, carriers of forceps jaws (I) with halves 

 very imperfectly united, slender, a deep incision on each side in anterior 

 third, the part posterior to which is more than twice as long as wide 

 and acutely pointed behind; hinge well-developed; the forceps 

 moderately stout in basal third, strongly hooked distally. Large 

 tooth plates (II), with stout body and large outstanding quadrate 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 291 



lateral wing and four or five stout teeth. The next anterior plate 

 (III) has an oblong, lateral supporting plate and a curved dentigerous 

 margin, bearing three or, in one case, four teeth. Anterior jjlate (IV) 

 slightly larger than III, with ovate-quadrate supporting plate and a 

 thick medial border bearing two stout triangular teeth. 



All of the specimens are pigmentless with a delicate pale blue 

 cuticular luster. 



Stations 4,454, Monterey Bay, off Point Pinos Lighthouse, 65-71 

 fathoms, green mud, shells and gravel; 4,463, same locality, 36-51 

 fathoms, soft dark gray mud; 4,496 (type), Monterey Bay, off Santa 

 Cruz Lighthouse, 10 fathoms, fine gray sand and rock, 



Lumbrineris tetraara (Schmarda) Ehlers. 



Lumbriconereis tetraura Ehlers, Festschr. K. Gesellsch. Wissensch.Gottingen, 

 1901, pp. 137-139, Taf. XVII, figs. 1-10. 



A fine example of what is undoubtedly this far southern species 

 was found among some Aracoda semimaculata. It is 114 mm. long 

 and 1.6 mm. wide at XII, the spread between the tips of the parapodia 

 at the same place being 3 mm. Segments 121. Compared with Ehler's 

 figures, the prostomium is somewhat shorter and much more broadly 

 rounded and the postsetal lobes somewhat longer and more erect. 



The segments often exhibit a faint biannulation. Posteriorly they 

 are somewhat depressed and the appearance of depression is con- 

 siderably enhanced by the prominent outstanding parapodia which 

 equal the width of the segments. Pygidium a short ring bearing two 

 pairs of cirri, of which the dorsal is somewhat shorter and thicker, the 

 ventral slightly divergent, longer and more slender. Crochets occur 

 on all segments, the anterior being long and limbate with small heads, 

 but they gradually assume the typical form which is attained by about 

 XXXV. A single acute seta continues to at least C. Both setae and 

 jaws agree closely with Ehler's description, the three pairs of maxillae 

 having one, two and four teeth, respectively, and the mandible a very 

 characteristic form. It is to be noted, however, that Ehler states that 

 limbate setae extend to about somite XXI only and that articulated 

 crochets occur in the anterior seventeen segments of young worms. - 



Station 4,496, off Santa Cruz Lighthouse, Monterey Bay, 9-11 



fathoms, hard sand. 



Lumbrineris bifilaris Ehlers. PI. XX, figs. 135-142. 



Lumbriconereis bifilaris Ehlers, Festsch. K. Gesellsch. Wissensch. Gottingen, 

 1901, Math.-Phys. IvI., pp. 139-141, Taf. XVIII, figs. 1-10. 



This interesting and abundant species resembles Ehler's south 

 Chilean species very closely in every respect except the structure of 




292 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



the jaws. Ehler's figure of the latter differs in certain respects so 

 greatly from the form usual in the genus that I have assumed that the 

 single specimen available to him was abnormal or imperfect in these 

 respects. Otherwise these specimens could scarcely be regarded as 

 cospecific with his, notwithstanding their close external similarity. 

 Even on this assumption there is by no means complete identity, and 

 further study of Chilean material may necessitate subspecific or even 

 wider separation. 



A set of well-preserved jaws is represented in figures 141, 142, and 

 several others which were dissected agi*ee closely, the principal differ- 

 ences being in the occasional presence of a third large tooth in place 

 of the first small tooth on one of the large-toothed maxillae (II) and 

 in the variable length of the stems of the mandibles. 



The peristomium of Ehler's type is decidedly more elongated than 

 that of the Californian examples, in which the basal width equals the 

 length. 



Parapodia of the anterior, middle and posterior regions are illus- 

 trated in figures 135-137. Those of the latter region with their two 

 cirriform processes are very characteristic and bear a very close 

 resemblance to Ehler's figure, which, however, is inverted. The 

 ventral outstanding filamentous process is postsetal and the dorsal 

 erect one, which contains a conspicuous vascular loop, is presetal in 

 origin. The notopodial tubercle or rudimentary cirrus is quite distinct 

 from the latter, but becomes obsolete on posterior segments. Para- 

 podia exhibiting this extreme development of the lobes are confined 

 to the posterior third or two-fifths of the body, those in the middle 

 region having them digitiform and only about as long as the body of 

 the foot (fig. 136) and in this respect these specimens differ somewhat 

 from Ehler's, in which the filiform character becomes established 

 farther forward. This difference, though somewhat indefinite, is quite 

 striking and is equally true of large and small specimens alike. The 

 resemblance of the bidigitate parapodia of the middle region to those 

 of L. hifurcata Mcintosh is striking and, indeed, the two species have 

 much in common, but they diverge in the character of the posterior 

 parapodia (fig. 137). 



Although the setae (PI. XX, figs. 138-140) in general resemble those 

 of the type in form and distribution, in respect to the latter there are 

 some noteworthy variations and differences. Anterior parapodia 

 bear both limbate setae and crochets, the latter being themselves 

 limbate, slender and with small imperfect heads; posteriorly only 

 true hooded crochets with short bodies and strongly hooked heads 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 293 



occur, Ehlers states that crochets occur on all podous segments, the 

 anterior being limbate and that acute limbate setae cease at LV. On 

 my material crochets may begin on the first foot (III), which is usual, 

 or they may be absent for from four to twelve anterior parapodia. This 

 is notably the case in three specimens from station 4,523, in which the 

 first occurs in X, XII and XIV, respectively, the first two specimens 

 being about 5 mm., the last 3 mm. in diameter. On two still larger 

 specimens 5 mm. and 7 mm. in diameter, from stations 4,406 and 4,402, 

 no crochets were detected anterior to XIX and XXI, respectively. 

 The passage from limbate to true crochets is a gradual one, but typical 

 crochets may usually be recognized at about the fortieth parapodium. 

 The last limbate seta may occur anywhere from segment XLII to 

 segment LXXXIX, the average of fourteen specimens on which this 

 was determined accurately being LXIV. There is no relation between 

 size and the position of the last acute seta, as there is in the case of the 

 first crochet. The variation, however, is less than would appear, for 

 in cases where a large number of parapodia contain acute, limbate 

 setae, the last twenty or thirty bear but one. 



Few of the specimens are obviously pigmented. Most are of a 

 dull gray or yellowish-brown color, one having a russet ground color is 

 marked with narrow dark brown annulations, and one lot from station 

 4,454, like other species from the same station, is marked with quad- 

 rate black spots. The ground is pale slate color with cuticular iri- 

 descence. The spots are sharply defined, always confined to one 

 segment, though those of adjacent segments may coalesce. They 

 occur on both dorsal and ventral surfaces, somewhat more plentifully 

 on the former, and apparently increase toward the middle region, 

 leaving the ends of the body less maculated. Individuals differ 

 greatly in the richness of the spotting, some having very few and 

 widely scattered spots, while on others they are numerous and often 

 confluent; some have the prostomium unspotted, while on others it 

 bears from one to three spots. 



In all seventy-seven specimens, ranging in diameter from .8 mm. to 

 7 mm., were examined, and although only a very few were complete 

 all exhibited the characteristic alteration in the form of the parapodia 

 from before caudad and the characteristic arrangement of the setae. 

 A complete specimen 155 mm. long has 312 segments, and at the point 

 of maximum diameter (XVII) the width is 3 mm. (exclusive of the 

 parapodia) and the depth 2.4 mm. A medium-sized specimen from 

 station 4,574 is packed with eggs. 



Although taken at many stations throughout the whole range of 




294 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



the cruise, only a single one occurs at more than half of them and more 

 than five specimens at 4,454, 4,548 (where thirteen occur) and 4,574 

 only. The bathjonetrical range is great, being from 36 to 2,182 

 fathoms. 



Stations 4,306, off Point Loma Lighthouse, vicinity of San Diego,. 

 207-497 fathoms, green mud, sand and gravel; 4,322, off Point La 

 Jolla, 110-199 fathoms, gi-een mud and shells; 4,364, off Point Loma, 

 101-129 fathoms, green mud, sand and rock; 4,366, off Point Loma 

 Lighthouse, 176-181 fathoms, green mud; 4,382, off North Coronado 

 Island, vicinity of San Diego, 642-666 fathoms, green mud; 4,390, 

 off Santa Catalina Islands, Lat. 33° 02' 15" N., 120° 42' W., 1,350- 

 2,182 fathoms, gray mud and fine sand; 4,402, off San Clemente 

 Island, 542-599 fathoms, green mud; 4,406, off Santa Catalina Island, 

 650 fathoms, green mud; 4,416, off Santa Barbara Island, 323-448 

 fathoms, dark green mud and rocks; 4,431, off Santa Rosa Island, 

 38-45 fathoms, varied bottom; the following in Monterey Bay, 4,445, 

 off Point Pinos Lighthouse, 60-66 fathoms, green mud; 4,450, same, 

 55-60 fathoms; 4,452, same, 49-50 fathoms, green mud and fine sand; 

 4,453, same, 49-51 fathoms, dark green mud; 4,454, same, 65-71 

 fathoms, green mud, sand and gravel; 4,457, same, 40-46 fathoms, 

 dark green mud ; 4,464, same, 36-51 fathoms, soft dark gray mud ; 4,467, 

 off Santa Cruz Lighthouse, 51-54 fathoms, soft dark green mud; 4,475, 

 off Point Pinos Lighthouse, 58-142 fathoms, soft green mud; 4,482, 

 off Santa Cruz Lighthouse, 43-44 fathoms, soft green mud; 4,485, 

 same, 39-108 fathoms, soft green mud and sand; 4,507, off Point Pinos 

 Lighthouse, 308-383 fathoms, green mud; 4,523, same, 75-108 

 fathoms, soft dark mud; 4,541, same, 381-633 fathoms, green mud 

 and sand; 4,548, same, 46-54 fathoms, coarse sand, shells and rock: 

 4,549, same, 56-57 fathoms, same bottom; 4,550, same, 50-57 fathoms, 

 green mud and rocks; 4,556, same, 56-59 fathoms, rocks; 4,557, 

 same, 53-54 fathoms, rocks; 4,574, off Cape Colnett, Lower California, 

 1 ,400 fathoms, bottom ?. 



Lumbrineris minasoula nom. nov. 



Lumbriconereis minuta Treadwell, Bull. U. S. Fish Comm., 1906, p. 1171, 

 figs. 57, 58 (nom. preoc. L. minuta Theel, 1879). 



Three very poorly preserved anterior ends of a species that is much 

 like Tread well's L. minuta, but differ in several respects and especially 

 in the great prolongation of the limbate setae, which, coupled with the 

 fact that the specimens, and especially one male, are filled with genital 

 products, leads to the suspicion that they are an epitokous phase of 

 that species. 




1911,] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 295 



All three examples have a diameter of about 1 mm. Prostomium 

 relatively smaller and more slender than usual in the genus. Eyes 

 apparently wanting, but a small median brown spot on the dorsum of 

 the prostomium immediately beneath the border of the nuchal fold. 

 Parapodia poorly preserved, but evidently small and inconspicuous, 

 and evidently with the lips little produced, though the postsetal is 

 somewhat the longer. Most interesting are the setae. From somite 

 III to XXV all setae are of the capillary bilimbate type. A few 

 segments beyond XXV crochets appear and continue to the end of the 

 pieces or beyond C. On anterior segments the limbate setae agree 

 with Treadwell's description, being long and slender, bilimbate and 

 bent. They number ten or twelve and the ventral four or five are 

 longer than the others. Farther caudad, after the crochets appear, 

 the number of limbate setae is reduced to a single short one dorsal to 

 the crochets and five to six ventral to them in subacicular bundle. 

 It is the latter that become so greatly elongated, projecting far beyond 

 the ends of the parapodia and in one specimen equalling the diameter 

 of the body. They are nearly straight with greatly restricted limbae 

 and the shaft continued into an excessively tenuous end. Anteriorly 

 the crochets are restricted to two in ^the supra-acicular fascicle, but 

 farther back two more are added in the subacicular fascicle. They 

 are little, if any, stouter than the setae, anteriorly margined for a short 

 distance below the small head. Within a few segments, however, 

 they lose the margin and assume the form figured by Treadwell. 



While the jaws in general resemble Treadwell's figure, there are some 

 differences which it seems probable result from imperfections in 

 Treadwell's specimen. The maxillae are remarkably massive for so 

 small a species. Forceps jaws characterized by the very small base; 

 maxillae II with five teeth on the right and four on the left side, the 

 first tooth on each side being very large and well-separated from the 

 others by a wide internal. The anterior pairs of plates (III) are both 

 very large, triangular and bear a single apical tooth. Mandibles pale 

 with dark tips and differing little in form from those of L. hifiiaris. 



Station 4,390, off Santa Catalina Islands, 33° 02' 15" N., 120° 42' W., 

 1,350-2,182 fathoms, gray mud and fine sand. 

 Araooda semimaculata sp. nov. PI. XX, figs. 143-149. 



Form slender, subterete, but owing to the prominence of the para- 

 podia appearing widened and depressed in the middle and posterior 

 regions. The type, in which the caudal end terminates in a small 

 cone of regeneration, is 165 mm. long and 2.8 mm. wide, exclusive of the 

 parapodia. Segments 278. Four other examples accompany the 




296 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [April, 



type. Three small complete ones are from 52-93 mm. long and have 

 from 135 to 209 segments, and a larger one, lacking the caudal end, is 

 155 mm. long, 2 mm. wide and has 235 segments. 



Prostomium as long or slightly longer than wide, subovate, slightly 

 depressed, the ventral face with a slightly impressed median area 

 bounded by a pair of parallel furrows which pass into the mouth. 

 Eyes four in a transverse row near the posterior border. In the two 

 larger specimens the eyes are obscure, especially the outer larger pair; 

 on the smaller ones they are much more distinct and the middle always 

 decidedly smaller. Peristomium and succeeding achaetous segment 

 together about as long as the prostomium, the former slightly the 

 longer ; lip but little furrowed and palpal pads at base of prostomium 

 scarcely evident. 



Segments all simple and sharply defined, varying from four to six 

 times as wide as long, nearly terete, but the venter slightly flattened. 

 Lateral or parapodial furrow slightly developed. Pygidium a minute 

 cylinder bearing two or four very small padlike cirri. 



Parapodia (PI. XX, figs. 143-145) begin on III. The anterior 

 are very small and inconspicuous, but they increase in size and become 

 prominent farther back. The body is slightly flattened, cylindroid, 

 constricted at the base and divided at the distal end by a vertical 

 setigerous cleft into presetal and postsetal lips. The former is short 

 and broadly rounded on all parapodia, the latter undergoes con- 

 spicuous change. On anterior parapodia (fig. 143) it is nearly as long 

 as the body of the foot, moderately flattened and subtriangular, with 

 the blunt apex directed upward and outward. It rapidly becomes 

 longer, thicker and cylindroid and bends dorsad (fig. 144). Through- 

 out the middle region it presents the appearance of a short finger 

 crooked upward. Still farther back, continuing to increase in length 

 and arising more from the ventral aspect of the foot, it takes a slightly 

 spiral turn and a suberect posture and retains this character to the 

 caudal end (fig. 145). On all parapodia the notopodium appears as a 

 rather prominent but small angulated tubercle on the base of the dorsal 

 face of the neuropodium. 



Neuropodial acicula usually two or three, straight, tapered, pale, 

 with the dark, bluntly pointed tips protruding a short distance beyond 

 the surface. Notopodial acicula two or three slender fibers entering 

 the notopodial tubercle. 



Setae few, from six to eight on anterior, diminishing to usually four 

 on posterior parapodia. All are pale yellow, acute, bilimbate, more 

 or less sigmoidly curved and geniculate at the first bend. The genie- 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 297 



uhim is directed dorsad and is most strongly developed on the dorsal- 

 most setse which are also the longest. On anterior parapodia the 

 margins of the setse are smooth or nearly so (fig. 146); farther back 

 the serrations become more prominent, especially on dorsal setae, which 

 also have a few transverse pectinae at the base of the geniculum (fig. 

 147). 



Jaws of two specimens dissected. Mandibles (PI. XX, fig. 148) dense 

 opake black, the posterior half or two-fifths narrow and somewhat 

 tapered, separated on the two sides by a wide median space, the 

 anterior portion abruptly twice as wide, the two halves united by an 

 extensive suture, the exposed tips slightly divergent with finely den- 

 ticulated free margins. Maxillae (Plate XX, fig. 149) also dense opake 

 black, the forceps jaws supported by a pair of small triangular carriers 

 prolonged into tapered filaments about one and one-third times as 

 long as the series of jaws, the forceps with massive bases and short, 

 strongly hooked ends, the left bearing on its medial margin eight or 

 nine stout teeth of diminishing size, the right about seven smaller 

 teeth. Maxillae II asymmetrical, the left short and stout with eight 

 teeth, the right long and narrow with about thirteen teeth diminishing 

 in size from before backward. IIP is a curved piece bearing two 

 teeth on each side; IV is irregular with five or six unequal teeth; V 

 is also irregular with four or five slender teeth and the most anterior 

 (VI) is a small piece with one slender tooth and a bifid base. A long 

 ribbon-like band of chitin exceeding the forceps filaments in length 

 extends caudad from the posterior maxillae ventral to the forceps 

 carriers. 



In color some are pale gray and unspotted, but three of the specimens 

 are blotched with three dorsal series of dusky bluish spots and the 

 peristomium is deeply pigmented above. The cuticle is more or less 

 iridescent. 



Known only from station 4,496, Monterey Bay, off Santa Cruz 

 Lighthouse, 10 fathoms, fine gray sand and rocks. 



From Aracoda cerulea Schmarda. as redescribed by Ehlers, this 

 species is abundantly separated, particularly through the characters 

 of the jaws, which in fact depart materially from the form typical of 

 the genus. 



Arabella attenuata Treadwell? 



Arabella attenuata Treadwell, Bull. U. S. Fish Comm., XXIII, part III 

 (1906), p. 1172, fig. 62.^ 



A small portion of the middle of a large specimen about 3 mm. in 



'Through an oversight maxilla III was overlooked in labeling fig. 149. 

 20 




298 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



diameter which may belong to this species. The parapodia bear large, 

 semierect respiratory postsetal lobes as in vl. spinifera Moore and also 

 possess the conspicuously protruding spine and the winged and toothed 

 setse of that species, though the latter are less distinctly geniculate. 



Station 4,351, off Point Loma Lighthouse, Monterey Bay, 423-488 

 fathoms, soft green mud. 



Drilonereis faloata sp. nov. PI. XX, figs. 150-154. 



A typical member of the genus known from incomplete worms 

 only. The t}'pe consists of an anterior piece of 188 segments, and a 

 posterior of 41 segments, possibly belonging to the same individual, 

 the middle region of which is wanting. Together the pieces measure 

 121 mm. long and have a maximum width of 1.2 mm. and a depth 

 practically the same. Form linear, terete. 



Prostomium elongated, ovate-elliptical, one and one-half or more 

 times as long as wide, strongly depressed, the depth about two-fifths 

 width, the greatest width being at the posterior end where the prosto- 

 mium is mortised into the peristomium. No distinct nuchal organs 

 or longitudinal grooves and no eyes above; a shallow median longitu- 

 dinal groove below. 



Peristomium and II achsetous, about equal above and together 

 about two-thirds as long as prostomium. Peristomium broadly 

 excavated for half its length above for the insertion of the prostomium, 

 produced forward below to form a prominent but simple bilobed 

 lip, not sharply differentiated from the small palps. 



Body segments of nearly uniform diameter, subterete or slightly 

 depressed, the venter very slightly flattened, very firm and wiry 

 anteriorly, softer behind. Segments sharply defined and very regular, 

 simple anteriorly, biannulate behind, generally about one-half as long 

 as wide, but exceeding this in middle region. Close to the caudal 

 end the segments are abruptly contracted and depressed. Pygidium 

 a minute ring, bearing four short, conical, equally divergent cirri. 

 Cuticle very smooth, polished, iridescent. Color nearly uniform 

 purplish-brown. 



Parapodia (PI. XX, figs. 150, 151) are set into slight lateral de- 

 pressions and project straight out. Anteriorly (fig. 150) they are 

 nearly as long as the segments, but gradually become smaller simul- 

 taneously with the elongation of the segments until they are only 

 one-third as long, though near the caudal end they are again relatively 

 longer. All are simple, short, truncated, cylindroid, setigerous 

 tubercles with a small dorsal steplike tubercle representing the 

 notopodium and a somewhat ventral, papilliform postsetal lobe which 




1911,] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 299 



is as long as the setigerous tubercle and projects straight out beyond 

 it. No noteworthy changes in form of the parapodia occur throughout 

 its entire length. 



True setsB are all of one form (PI. XX, figs. 151, 152), simple, bilim- 

 bate, sigmoid, tapered to an acute point and with a finely serrate 

 margin and distinctly striated stem. Those in the dorsal part of the 

 fascicle are usually longer. Beginning at XIII, IX or X in the several 

 specimens, they are accompanied by a single yellow, stout, blunt, 

 rodlike aciculum (fig. 151) which projects obliquely far beyond the 

 surface from the ventral border of the setae bundle. Farther back it 

 becomes even stouter and reaches nearly or quite to the tip of the 

 postsetal lobe. 



The most distinctive characters of the species are found in the jaws 

 (PI. XX, figs. 153, 154). Mandibles rather large for the genus, black, 

 shaped like a pair of broad snow-shoes with the tapering heels behind 

 and imited anterior to the middle by a broad chitinous band (fig. 153). 

 Maxillae black; forceps jaws (I) very strongly falcate and hamate 

 with acute tips, stout at the base with massive, quadrate masticatory 

 plates, the inner margin of which bears only three or four distinct 

 small teeth and some obscure crenulations. Hinge-pieces of carriers 

 (fig. 154) very small and strongly divergent from an irregular hori- 

 zontal plate with attached fringed chitinous tendons at the united 

 anterior ends of the long, slender, attenuated filaments, which barely 

 exceed twice the length of the series of jaws. Large tooth plates, 

 narrow and nearly straight or oblong, with a supporting flange or 

 plate running nearly their entire length and meeting at nearly a right 

 angle in a ridge bearing a series of six or seven teeth, the first of which 

 is enlarged and talonlike, the remainder equal, regular, acute and 

 recurved. Anterior to this plate on each side is a group of three 

 small crowded tooth plates, each bearing a single, long, slender, strongly 

 curved and very acute tooth on a V-shaped base. These represent 

 III, IV and V (fig. 154). 



Stations 4,451, Monterey Bay, off Point Pinos Lighthouse, 47-51 

 fathoms, green mud and sand; 4,460 (type station) same locality, 

 55-167 fathoms, green mud and gravel. 



QLYOBRIDiE. 



Glyoera oapitata Oersted. 



Glycera capitata Oersted, Gronl. Ann. Dorsibr., 1843, p. 44, Tab. VII. 



What is undoubtedly a variety of this species, differing in only a 

 slight and variable degree from typical examples from the Atlantic 

 Ocean, is not uncommon throughout this region. The principal 




300 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



differences exhibited by these specimens is that the parapodia are 

 longer with the postsetal lobes and neurocirriis much more elongated, 

 slender and acute, and the appendages of the compound setae longer 

 and more slender. In all important respects, prostomium, para- 

 podia, proboscis papillae and jaws, the resemblance is very close. 



All specimens are small, the largest varying from 40 to 46 mm. 

 long with 98 to 109 segments and most being much smaller. All are 

 largest in the proboscis region and tapered to a slender posterior region. 

 Prostomium with eight rings beyond the enlarged base, the three 

 terminal ones being very small. Body segments always distinctly 

 triannulate. 



The jaws are typical and the clavate proboscis thickly covered 

 with slender conical papillae and either eighteen or twenty longitu- 

 dinal rows of larger ovate papillae, both of which are exactly like 

 those of Atlantic specimens. 



Glycera na.na Johnson is very closely related to G. capitata, the 

 principal differences being that the segments of the former are only 

 biannulate and that the lobes of the parapodia have slightly different 

 forms. In this connection it should be noted that at least some of 

 the specimens reported by me from San Diego under the name of 

 G. nana (Proc. A. N. S., 1909, p. 259) are really small examples of 

 other species. One of these is a young G. rohusta Ehlers and the other 

 a G. rugosa Johnson with completely retracted gills. 



Specimens of G. capitata occur from the following stations: 4,343 

 off South Coronado Island, vicinity of San Diego, 60-155 fathoms, 

 fine gray sand; 4,452, off Point Pinos Lighthouse, Monterey Bay, 

 49-50 fathoms, green mud and fine sand ; 4,457, same locality, 40-46 

 fathoms, dark green mud; 4,464, same locality, 30^51 fathoms, soft 

 dark gray mud; 4,485, off Santa Cruz Lighthouse, Monterey Bay, 

 39-108 fathoms, soft green mud and sand; 4,548, 4,549, 4,550 and 

 4,551, all off Point Pinos lighthouse, Monterey Bay, 46-57 fathoms, 

 coarse sand, shells and rock, except 4,550, where green mud and rock ; 

 4,557, off Point Pinos Lighthouse, 53-54 fathoms, rock. 



Olyoera tesselata Grube. 



Glycera tesselata Grube, Arch. Naturgesch., XXIX, I, p. 41, Taf. IV, fig. 4. 



This second European species as nearly as frequent and, at southern 

 stations, as generally distributed in the region as G. capitata. The 

 only obvious respect in which these examples appear to differ from 

 European ones is in the possession of a smaller number of prostomial 

 rings, for, whereas Ehlers attributes thirteen and Mcintosh seventeen 

 rings to this region, these have only eleven or twelve nearly equal 

 rings above the enlarged base. 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. .301 



All of the specimens are stout and more or less inflated anteriorly 

 in the proboscidial region and taper rather abruptly into the slender 

 and attenuated posterior half. All segments are biannulate. Several 

 have the proboscis fully protruded, showing the very dense covering 

 of very high slender papillae, among which are a few somewhat stouter 

 but otherwise similar papillae. The jaw appendages differ from those 

 of G. nana in having a much narrower basal wing. 



The color is generally a rich orange-brown, most pronounced ante- 

 riorly, and only lacking on the smallest specimens, which are clear 

 yellow. 



This species has already been recorded from the North Pacific in 

 the Gulf of Georgia and off Japan. 



Stations 4,326, off Soledad Hill, Point La Jolla, vicinity of San 

 Diego, 243-264 fathoms, soft green mud; 4,399, Lat. 32° 44' 50" N., 

 Long. 117° 48' 45" W., 264-285 fathoms, fine gray sand and rock; 

 4,410, off Santa Catalina Island, 143-245 fathoms, gray sand, 

 shells, gravel and rocks; 4,415, off Santa Barbara Island, 302-638 

 fathoms, green mud; 4,418, same locality, 238-310 fathoms, dark 

 green mud, sand and rock; 4,430, off Santa Cruz Island, 197-281 

 fathoms, black sand, pebbles and rock; 4,431, off Santa Rosa Island, 

 38-45 fathoms, varied bottom; 4,463, off Point Pinos Lighthouse, 

 Monterey Bay, 48-111 fathoms, rocky. 



Glyoera alba Rathke maorobrancliia subsp. nov. 



Glycera alba Rathke, Nov. Act. Acad. Nat. Cur., XX, p. 173, Tab. IX, fig. 9. 



Represented by a single long, slender, nearly complete specimen. 

 Length 99 mm., width 2.7 mm. Number of segments 129, probably 

 25 or 30 at the caudal end missing. 



The segments are all strongly biannulate, with the middle or foot- 

 bearing annuhis somewhat larger. Parapodia small, in middle region 

 about one- third as long as the body width. The dorsal gills begin 

 at XXII and reach a very large size before L, remaining nearly unal- 

 tered to the end of the piece. Compared with European and Japanese 

 examples of the species, the gills of this specimen are much larger and 

 the postsetal lobe smaller. 



The jaws are unknown, but the half-protruded proboscis was studied. 

 Its surface is very finely granular from the presence of very numerous 

 small, pediculated, oyal papillae, bearing inclined, winged, cuticular 

 terminal plates, among which are scattered some much smaller 

 subconical papillae. Compared with typical examples of the species, 

 these papillae are distinctly larger, with relatively shorter stalks and 

 less pronounced wings on the end plates. 




302 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



The single specimen is labelled Beaver Shoal, San Diego Bay, mud, 

 7/19/'05. ' 



Crlyoera brancMopoda sp, nov. Pis. XX, XXI, figs. 156-159. 



A small, rather slender species, characterized by the well-developed 

 ligulate dorsal and ventral gills. The type is 90 mm. long without 

 proboscis; the maximum width, exclusive of parapodia, 2.8 mm., with 

 parapodia 3.5 mm. Proboscis, not fully extended, 22 mm. long, 

 2 mm. in diameter at base and 3.5 mm. at the distal end. 



Prostomium of the usual form, consisting of a broad, rugous, basal 

 region constituting about two-fifths of its length and a slender, some- 

 what depressed conical portion divided into seven annuli decreasing 

 in size regularly from base to apex, the basal three aggregating con- 

 siderably more than one-half of its length. Terminal segment very 

 small, dome-shaped, bearing the four minute apical tentacles which 

 are divergent and all directed somewhat ventrad, the dorsal slightly 

 longer than the ventral. There is a median dorsal and a median 

 ventral groove, the latter being the better developed. 



Peristomium closely united with prostomium, divided below by the 

 large mouth. Metastomial region increases in diameter to about XL, 

 from which the body tapers to the caudal end. Anterior segments 

 very short and crowded, the first with modified parapodia closely 

 crowded against the head. Remainder of the body nearly terete, 

 the segments strongly arched above and slightly flattened below. 

 Anteriorly they are at least eight times as wide as long, but increase 

 gradually in length while decreasing in width until the ratio is two to 

 one. All segments are strongly and completely triannulate and the 

 annuli are of nearly equal width, only the third or postpodal being 

 slightly larger than the others, especially posteriorly where they are 

 marked above by a straight cross-furrow. On the short and crowded 

 anterior segments the prepodal annulus is frequently united with the 

 middle annulus laterally and partly bears the parapodia. Middle 

 annulus, though never enlarged, is frequently conspicuous by reason 

 of its paler color. Pygidium unknown. 



Parapodia characteristic, the anterior short and deep, the posterior 

 longer and more cylindrical. First two situated high by the sides 

 of the mouth with the notopodium much reduced and notocirrus 

 totally lacking, consequently consisting of a neuropodium bearing a 

 short, rounded postsetal lip and a longer acute asjTiimetrical presetal 

 lip. Remaining parapodia (PI. XXI, figs. 158, 159) all biramous, 

 the postsetal lip short, broad, and undivided, broadly rounded, often 

 slightly emarginated on middle segments. Presetal lip deeply cleft 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 303 



into a dorsal and a ventral lobe. On anterior segments (fig. 157) 

 these present no striking peculiarities; both are foliaceous at the 

 base where the ventral lobe is much the larger, while the distal portion, 

 which is separated by a slight constriction, is longer and acute in the 

 dorsal lobe and usually obtuse in the ventral lobe. Neurocirrus 

 prominent, attached to middle of ventral face of neuropodium, some- 

 what grooved and embracing the neuropodium at the base and tapered 

 to an acute tip which usually diverges more or less from the foot. 

 Notocirrus a small globoid or siibcylindrical papilla situated on the 

 side of the body well above the parapodium. Passmg caudad, the 

 foliaceous base of the dorsal presetal lobe is gradually reduced and the 

 distal part enlarged to form a gill which becomes fully established at 

 about XXXV (fig. 158). Throughout the middle region and nearly 

 if not quite to the caudal end this lobe forms a prominent, subligulate, 

 erect gill rising from the dorsum of the end of the foot and fully equal- 

 ling or exceeding the latter in length (fig. 159). The ventral presetal 

 lobe does not become branchiform, but elongates and finally takes a 

 slender finger-like form (fig. 159). Simultaneously with the develop- 

 ment of the dorsal gill a ventral gill develops from the modification 

 of the neurocirrus. This is similar in form to the dorsal gill, but when 

 fully developed (figs. 158, 159) becomes even larger, reaching beyond 

 the end of the postsetal lip. Near the caudal end it undergoes con- 

 siderable reduction in size. Both dorsal and ventral gills are thin- 

 walled and sacular with large cavities communicating with the coelom 

 and a layer of longitudinal and slightly oblique muscle fibers by which 

 they may be retracted. 



Acicula two, corresponding to the two principal fascicles of setse, 

 both simple, nearly straight, tapered, pale rods, the ventral much 

 the stouter. Setae colorless, in three fascicles, a dorsal oblique row 

 of very slender simple setse, a middle horizontal and a ventral vertical 

 series of compound setse. The latter have slender shafts terminating 

 in deep asymmetrical sockets and slender, tapered, finely punctated 

 blades, with minute marginal denticulations. On the first two para- 

 podia simple setse are absent, but the dorsalmost compound setae have 

 very long slender blades. In general the blades of the compound 

 setae decrease in length from the dorsalmost ventrad and from the 

 anterior end caudad. 



Proboscis described from a cotype (station 4,517), this being the 

 only one in which it is everted to the jaw pads. The nearly complete 

 worm is 35 mm. long, the proboscis 12 mm. long, 1.5 mm. in diameter 

 at the base and 3.2 mm. at the distal end. Clavate, the distal end 




304 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



domed and terminated by sixteen large, soft papillae flattened against 

 one another in a circle at the base of the still retracted jaws. Surface 

 proximad of these papillae thickly covered with small cutaneous 

 papillae of three forms and sizes. The most numerous are tall, slender 

 cones (PI. XX, fig. 155a), the second are larger, low, truncate cones 

 (fig. 1556) arranged in eighteen or twenty longitudinal rows along the 

 muscle bands; the third are a few scattered and smaller papillae 

 (fig. 155c). All three kinds have a similar structure, with an apical 

 pore at which a pair of refringent fibers end, and containing a few 

 large sensory cells and a supporting framework. Jaws of the usual 

 falcate form, strong, black, clawlike with expanded, hollow bases 

 and an appendage consisting of a rod and a large thin, triangular, 

 basal wing supported by a thickened marginal rib (fig. 156). 



Color as preserved pale yellow. 



Stations 4,517, off Point Pinos Lighthouse, Monterey Bay, 750-766 

 fathoms, green mud and sand; 4,525, same locality, 222 fathoms, 

 soft gi-ay mud; 4,527, same locality, 183-337 fathoms, hard sand; 

 4,528, same locality, 766-800 fathoms, soft gray mud; 4,574 (type), 

 off Cape Colnett, Lower California, Lat. 30° 35' N., Long. 117° 23' W., 

 1,400 fathoms. 



Glycera rugosa Johnson. 



Glycera rugosa Johnson, Proc. Bos. Sci. Nat. Hist., XXIX, pp. 409-411, 

 PI. 10, figs. 101, 102. 



Owing to the complete retractibility of the branched gills of this 

 species, their presence is easily overlooked as was done on a former 

 occasion in hastily determining such a specimen from San Diego as 

 G. nana. Careful examination in direct sunlight always renders 

 visible the orifices through which the gills have been withdrawn. 

 Those from station 4,454 are marked with quadrate black spots. 



Stations 4,431, off Santa Rosa Island, 38-45 fathoms, varied bottom; 

 4,454, off Point Pinos Lighthouse, 65-71 fathoms, green mud, sand 

 and gravel; 4,548, same locality, 46-54 fathoms, coarse sand, shells 

 and rock. 



Glycera longissima Arwidsson. 



Glycera longissima Arwidsson, Bergens Museums Aabog for 1898 (1899), 

 pp. 23. 24, PI. I, figs. 15, 19; G. chilensis Arwidsson, ibid., pp. 24, 25, 

 PI. I, figs. 20, 21. 



Arwidsson's two species are probably identical, as Ehlers has already 

 indicated. This species is represented by a very large, practically 

 complete example 305 mm. long and 8 mm. wide exclusive of the 

 parapodia. Segments 230, a few of the most caudal and the pygidium 

 missing. 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 305 



Prostomium 12-annulate, the four apical tentacles minute. Segments 

 strongly biannulate. Gills begin at XIV in the same position as in 

 G. rugosa, but are much more complex than in that species. All are 

 branched, but the most anterior and posterior have only two or three 

 slender divisions. The most are very large and complex, reaching 

 from their place of origin at the posterior dorsal part of the foot over 

 most of its posterior face. The largest divide immediately at the base 

 into three or four large branches, each of which spreads vertically 

 into a flat plane divided irregularly several times into slender filaments. 

 Most of the larger gills consist of thirty or forty filaments. Proboscis 

 53 mm. long and 7 mm. in diameter, but jaws not exposed, thickly 

 covered with papillae of the same form as those of G. rugosa. This 

 specimen agrees rather better with the description of G. chilensis, 

 especially in the form of the jaw appendage and the mode of branching 

 of the gills. 



Station 4,322, off San Nicolas Island, 31-32 fathoms, gray sand 

 and shells. 



GONIADID^. 



Ooniada annulata Moore. 



Goniada annulata Moore, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1905, pp. 549-553, 

 PI. XXXVI, figs. 45-48. 



A considerable representation of this species, usually only one 

 example from each station, shows a wide range of color variation from 

 yellow through light brown, gray and dark brown to purple, usually 

 more or less distinctly annulated, but some of the most deeply pig- 

 mented ones nearly uniform. Some of them are sexually mature. 

 Notopodial setae begin on XXXIII or XXXIV, in the latter case the 

 preceding parapodium being usually provided with a small achsetous 

 notopodium. The sexual region, characterized by long swimming 

 setae and neural eye-spots, begins on different specimens at LIV, LV 

 or LVI. The proboscis and its jaws and papillae agree very closely 

 with the types. 



Stations 4,307, off Point Loma Lighthouse, 490-496 fathoms, green 

 mud and fine sand; 4,326, off Point La Jolla, vicinity of San Diego, 

 243-264 fathoms, soft green mud; 4,325, same locality, 275-292 

 fathoms, green mud and fine sand; 4,352, off Point Loma Lighthouse, 

 vicinity of San Diego, 549-585 fathoms, green mud; 4,353, same 

 locality, 628-640 fathoms, green mud; 4,366, same locality, 176-181 

 fathoms, green mud; 4,369, same locality, 260-284 fathoms, green 

 mud, sand and rock; 4,462, off Point Pinos Lighthouse, Monterey 

 Bay, 161-265 fathoms, green mud; 4,508, same locality, 292-303 




306 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



fathoms, soft green mud; 4,524, 4,525, 4,526, same locality, 204-239 

 fathoms, soft gray mud ; 4,574, off Cape Colnett, 30° 35' N., 117° 23' W., 

 1,400 fathoms. 



Goniada brunnea Treadwell. 



Goniada brunnea Treadwell, Bull. U. S. Fish Comm., 1906, p, 1174, figs. 

 67-69. 



Several excellently preserved specimens of this species occur in the 

 collection and permit some minor additions to Tread well's description. 

 The largest individual is 111 mm. long with a maximum width of body 

 in the anterior region of 1.8 mm. and between the tips of the parapodia 

 of about 3 mm., the corresponding measurements of the posterior region 

 being 2.6 and 4.2 mm. 



Prostomium shaped as in Treadwell's figure, composed of from 

 seven to nine equal rings above the base, the higher numbers in 

 small specimens. As Treadwell supposed from the appearance of 

 his, in this respect imperfectly preserved, specimen, the apical tentacles 

 are Particulate, the larger basal joint clavate and the minute terminal 

 piece retractile. Parapodia are as figured by Treadwell. but his 

 figure 68 is inverted. Notopodia with setae appear abruptly at XLIV 

 or XLV. Treadwell says at L. The distinction between the two 

 regions of the bod}'' is never sharply indicated. Usually the anterior 

 region is of a paler color and neural eye-spots, having the form of 

 short dashes, and swimming setae begin at about LVI. Pygidium a 

 minute obliquely truncate cylinder with a somewhat thickened mar- 

 ginal welt and no cirri in place. The color is pale brown or yellowish- 

 brown, either with paler annulations at the furrows or dusky markings, 

 paling to clear yellow posteriorly. 



No, specimen has more than a small portion of the proboscis pro- 

 truded and the jaws were seen by dissection. The large jaws are 

 black, with four large, stout, clawlike teeth and apparently no small 

 teeth. Dorsal arc of small jaws absent. Ventral arc of nine small 

 black jaws apparently all bidentate with bilobed bases. Chevron 

 jaws on the largest specimen eighteen, on a very small one nine on 

 one side ten on the other and on other specimens fourteen or fifteen. 

 Soft papillae in a circle of eighteen. The surface of the proboscis 

 appears smooth under a pocket lens, but when more highly magnified 

 is seen to be thickly covered with minute hemispherical papillae with 

 an asymmetrical basal pore. 



Stations 4,366, off Point Loma Lighthouse, vicinity of San Diego, 

 176-181 fathoms, green mud; 4,381, off South Coronado Island, 

 618-654 fathoms, green mud; 4,457, off Point Pinos Lighthouse, 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 307 



Monterey Bay, 40-46 fathoms, dark green mud; 4,464, same locality, 

 36-51 fathoms, soft dark gray mud; 4,480, off Santa Cruz Lighthouse, 

 53-76 fathoms, dark green mud and sand. 



Glycinde armigera sp. nov. PI. XXI, figs. 160-171. 



A slender species with the two regions not sharply differentiated. 

 Length of type 81 mm., maximum width near middle, body only 

 1.8 mm., between tips of parapodia 3.1 mm. Number of segments 

 178. The largest example is 118 mm. long and has 191 segments. 



Prostomium (PI. XXI, fig. 160) much elongated, equal to the first 

 seven segments, very slender and acutely conical, depressed. Base 

 or oral region coalesced with peristomium, forming a somewhat swollen 

 region wider than second setigerous segment and divided by an indis- 

 tinct cross-furrow. Attenuated distal part divided very regularly 

 into sometimes eight, sometimes nine, equal wings, the apical one 

 bearing four small tentacles with clavate basal joints and minute 

 cylindrical retractile distal joints. Median dorsal and ventral fields 

 broad, smooth and continuous for entire length with the cross-furrows 

 shallow, the lateral fields bounded by deep dorsal and ventral gi-ooves 

 and much more deeply cut by the interannular furrows. Mouth a 

 small crescentic slit within the enlarged basal region and bounded 

 laterally by the small palps. Eyes one pair, minute, black, widely 

 separated on basal region, frequently indiscernible on larger specimens; 

 no apical eyes. 



Peristomium united with base of prostomium, forming the simple 

 posterior lip and bearing a pair of small parapodia. Anterior end of 

 body very slender, at first narrower than the oral region of head, 

 terete; the segments well-defined, simple, slightly flattened below 

 and in the parapodial field, strongly arched above with a narrow, 

 somewhat softened dorsal field. The segments very gradually increase 

 in both diameter and length to the point of greatest width (about LX), 

 where they are about three times as wide as long. The two regions 

 are less sharply differentiated than in many species, but a few segments 

 behind the point of greatest width of the anterior region a slight 

 constriction occurs, followed at somite LXX to LXXVI on different 

 specimens by a more or less obvious increase in size of the parapodia 

 accompanied by the presence, in mature examples, of genital products 

 in the coelom. The neural eye-spots, which take the form of short 

 brown — s crossing the intersegmental furrows in the neural line, 

 become conspicuous at the same place, but may be traced much farther 

 forward, often to about L, gradually becoming fainter. Segments of 




308 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



posterior region somewhat depressed, relatively shorter and more 

 crowded than anteriorly and gradually tapered to the caudal end. 



Pygidium a minute wing bearing a pair of long, very slender, flagelli- 

 form subanal cirri at least equal to the greatest width of the body, 

 including the parapodia, and often one-third longer. 



Parapodia situated near the ventral level anteriorly, extending 

 their entire depth on most of the posterior region, all longhand slender, 

 those at the anterior end of the anterior region and throughout the 

 posterior region equalling the width of the segments or, near the caudal 

 end, exceeding them. As far as somite XXIX they are unu-amous. 

 The first foot (fig. 160) is small, with a minute setigerous tubercle 

 nearly concealed between the much longer dorsal and ventral cirri. 

 Succeeding ones gradually enlarge and the next few have the neuro- 

 podium divided into presetal and postsetal lobes of nearly equal length, 

 the former broad and with an axial prolongation, the latter narrow 

 and tapered (fig. 160). Dorsal and ventral cirri are about one-fourth 

 longer than the neuropodium, moderately slender and tapered to 

 blunt points, the former with a pitlike depression and glandular 

 swelling near the base, beyond which it is bent somewhat abruptly 

 dorsad, the latter nearly straight. On still succeeding somites all 

 parts of the parapodium become increasingly compressed and foliaceous 

 and the neuropodium longer than or at least equal to the cirri. On 

 typical parapodia of this region (PI. XXI, fig. 162) the broadly ovate 

 postsetal lip is longer than the presetal lip, which is broadly obcordate 

 petalliform with a tongue-shaped prolongation arising from the sinus. 

 Neurocirrus about as long as neuropodium, compressed, of nearly 

 uniform width to near the bluntly triangular tip. Notocirrus always 

 irregular and somewhat distorted in outline, the base somewhat 

 contracted, the distal part subovate, somewhat foliaceous and more 

 or less abruptly bent dorsad. 



At somite XXX a small notopodium appears abruptly anterior to 

 the base of the notocirrus and immediately consists of a small setig- 

 erous tubercle, a short presetal lip and a longer postsetal lip. Through 

 the remainder of the anterior region the biramous parapodia undergo 

 no marked change, but with the beginning of the posterior sexual 

 region (about somite LXX to LXXVI) they become distinctly larger 

 and the rami better differentiated. Typical parapodia of this region 

 (fig. 163) are large and deep with the neuropodium much exceeding 

 the notopodium, compressed, somewhat widened distally into a broadly 

 rounded acicular tubercle enclosed between broadly foliaceous, more 

 or less irregularly ovate, presetal and postsetal lips, of which the 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 309 



latter is somewhat the longer and the former marked by a slight con- 

 striction separating a distal portion corresponding to a much broadened 

 Ungulate process of anterior parapodia. Neurocirrus much shorter 

 than neuropodium and divergent from it. The notopodium consists 

 of a deep postsetal lip broadly attached to the notocirrus above with a 

 slight emargination at the tip of the aciculum, and a small subovate 

 presetal lip or process just ventral to the end of the aciculum. Noto- 

 cirrus shaped much like neurocirrus, but shorter and lacking the basal 

 depression and bending which characterizes anterior notocirri. Toward 

 the caudal end the rami are relatively longer and more divergent. 



Acicula in each ramus single, rather stout, straight, tapering rods 

 ending in blunt points ending flush with the surface, the neuropodial 

 being sometimes slightly bent at the tip. Neuropodial setae in a 

 broad spreading fan-shaped fascicle of one series, divided into nearly 

 equal dorsal and ventral groups by a considerable interval at the 

 aciculum into which the tonguelike prolongation of the presetal lip 

 enters. On the type they are distributed as follows: somite X 16 

 supra-acicular and 14 subacicular, XXV 21 and 22, L 23 and 22, C 

 28 and 24. They are all of one kind, compound, capillary, slender 

 and colorless, the gently curved shafts slightly enlarged at the distal 

 end (fig. 164) to form a bifurcate socket with unequal limbs, the 

 longer of which is faintly toothed. Appendages very delicate, slender, 

 tapered, more or less curved, very finely punctate and along the edge 

 finely fringed. They are shortest at the dorsal and ventral borders 

 of the fascicles and gradually increase in length to acicular borders. 

 Except that they are very long and slender on the middle segments, 

 there is no obvious distinction between these setae on the two regions 

 of the body. Notopodial setae (fig. 165) are few, three supra-acicular 

 on XXX, three supra-acicular and two subacicular on L and four and 

 three, respectively, on C. They are simple, colorless, delicate and very 

 small, with a peculiar knoblike prominence on one side, beyond which 

 they are prolonged into a very slender, acute tip. On more anterior 

 parapodia these tips are exposed, but farther back they are shorter and 

 concealed between the notopodial lips. 



Proboscis, when fully retracted, reaches to somite XLIX, where the 

 jaws lie. None of the specimens has it fully everted. It is most 

 fully so on a cotype (station 4,480) on which it is 8 mm. long and 

 2 mm. in diameter, cylindroid, of uniform diameter, with four broad 

 longitudinal ridges (one dorsal and one ventral pair) bearing four 

 bands of horny papillae or paragnaths. These bands extend for nearly 

 the entire length of the eversible proboscis from the jaws nearly to 




310 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



the base, where they dwmdle away. When the proboscis is everted 

 the paragnaths become more or less erect and form a formidable and 

 bristling armature. The ventral bands are borne on a pair of rather 

 sharp ridges and each consists of two series of horny papillae, those of 

 the more medial series (PI. XXI, fig. 167) being larger with broad 

 crescentic, flat bases and somewhat bent, acute, conical tops. Those 

 of the more lateral series are more complex (fig. 168), about one-third 

 to one-half as high as the inner papillae, truncate and bent and bearing 

 on the convex side a thick, horny scale or plate with three short spines 

 at its lower border. Both kinds have a subapical pore and both become 

 smaller toward the jaws, to which the bands nearly reach. Papillae 

 of the dorsal bands are larger and stouter, especially those of the 

 inner or more medial series, which are clawlike, directed toward the 

 middle line, with a broad base and subapical pore (fig. 169). Sup- 

 porting these, between and behind them, are three irregular rows of 

 somewhat smaller papillae similar to the principal ones, except that 

 they are more or less bifid at the apex, a feature which is very obvious 

 on the tall papillae at the middle of the series (fig. 170). All of these 

 papillae are very hard and horny and continue to the jaws without 

 material decrease in size, but in the opposite direction, toward the 

 base of the proboscis, gradually become reduced. Between the four 

 armed bands are a few minute spheroid papillae with roughened 

 summits (fig. 171). 



The circle of soft jaw papillae appears to comprise twenty. Jaws 

 black, the principal pair (fig. 166a) ventral, the width of four or five 

 soft papillae apart, with three (sometimes four) large, clawlike teeth 

 and on the medial side an additional very small tooth or none. No 

 ventral arc of small jaws. Dorsal arch of about thirty small, double, 

 quadridentate jaws consisting of a larger anterior and a smaller pos- 

 terior pair mostly like b (fig. 166), but a few like c. 



Color variable, pale yellow, light brown, often with bluish reflections, 

 drab, etc., more or less mottled with dusky, and those from station 

 3,454 exhibiting a few quadrate black spots. The general color of 

 the type is a clear amber-brown with the furrows and median dorsal 

 field bluish-gray and the prostomium pale gray. In the posterior 

 region the color is almost entirely blue-gray, except on the parapodia 

 which retain the brown. Neural eye-spots dark brown, very con- 

 spicuous in the posterior region. 



Represented usually by single specimens from the following stations : 

 4,309, 4,310, off Point Loma Lighthouse, near San Diego, 67-78 

 fathoms, fine sand, green mud and rocks; 4,332, same locality, 62-183 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 311 



fathoms, gray sand and rock; 4,334, same locality, 514-541 fathoms, 

 green mud and fine sand ; 4,436, off San Miguel Island, 264-271 fath- 

 oms, green mud; 4,452, 4,453, 4,454, off Point Pinos Lighthouse, 

 Monterey Bay, 49-71 fathoms, green mud, sand and gravel; 4,457, 

 same locality, 40-46 fathoms, dark green mud; 4,464, 4,467, same 

 locality, 36-54 fathoms, soft dark mud; 4,480, off Santa Cruz Light- 

 house, 53-76 fathoms, dark green mud and sand; 4,548, off Point 

 Pinos Lighthouse, 46-54 fathoms, coarse sand, shells and rocks; 4,550, 

 same locality, 50-57 fathoms, green mud and rocks. 

 Arioia nuda sp. nov. PI. XXI, figs. 172-176. 



As usual in the genus, this is a very fragile worm, and no complete 

 examples are known, but only four short anterior ends and a fragment 

 from near the caudal end. The type comprises two pieces not cer- 

 tainly belonging to the same individual: an anterior piece of 41 

 segments, 31 mm. long, 5 mm. wide and 3.2 mm. deep at somite VIII, 

 and a much more slender and gently tapered piece of 72 segments and 

 evidently from near the caudal end. 



Prostomium mammilliform or flattened dome-shaped, bearing a 

 blunt, nipple-like apical palpode about one-half as long as the prosto- 

 mium, the combined length of both being about equal to the basal 

 width of the prostomium. An obscure, rather large pigment spot 

 or eye at each side close to the base of the palpode. On the ventral 

 side a pair of parallel longitudinal grooves include between them a 

 slightly depressed area ending at the quadrate mouth which is bounded 

 on the sides by the peristomium and behind by a lip derived chiefly 

 from somite II. 



Anterior end of body for the first fifteen segments depressed, dis- 

 tinctly wider than deep, both dorsal and ventral surfaces moderately 

 convex. Segments increase rather rapidly in width to VIII or IX, 

 then become more gradually narrower. They are generally from four 

 to six times as wide as long. At XVI, coincident with the shifting 

 of the parapodia dorsad, the segments become much shorter, deeper, 

 much more strongly convex below and flatter above. . These conditions 

 are maintained in the slender posterior region. There is no trace of 

 the pectinated ventral fold or ventral rows of papillsB characterizing 

 the more typical species of the genus. Walls of anterior part of body 

 firm, of posterior region rather soft and translucent. Pygidium 

 unknown. 



Parapodia begin on I and are biramous throughout, the first fifteen 

 differing from the others in the lateral position and large size of the 

 neuropodium and the fimbriated or pectinated postsetal membrane. 




312 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



The first two or three are smaller and of simpler structure than the 

 others, consisting of small contiguous notopodial and neuropodial 

 setigerous areas and behind each a postsetal lobe of which the notopodial 

 is narrow, erect and pointed triangular, the neuropodial a low, broad, 

 feebly pectinated fold, corresponding to the larger size of the latter. 

 The heuropodium increases in size rapidly and soon becomes a low plat- 

 form rising toward the caudal margin and bearing the setae in a close 

 phalanx of several, gradually rising tiers. They attain the maximum 

 size at IX to XIII on which the setae palisade is about four times as 

 deep as long, and the now conspicuous postsetal fold bears twelve to 

 fourteen or fifteen marginal processes (PI. XXI, fig. 172), of which the 

 dorsal is frequently somewhat larger than the others and occupies a 

 more detached position above the setae. On somites XII to XV, 

 inclusive, the ordinary palisade setae are much reduced and in part 

 replaced in the dorsal portion of the posterior row by a few stout 

 spines, the dorsalmost of which is very large and provided with a 

 special cirrus, at the base of which opens a large pyriform gland, 

 sometimes visible to the naked eye as a whitish swelling on the surface 

 of the postsetal fold (PI. XXI, fig. 174). At the same time the entire 

 neuropodium undergoes reduction from the ventral side and the 

 postsetal fold becomes smaller with few marginal processes. Except 

 that it gradually shifts dorsad and becomes larger, with a conspicuous 

 asymmetrical wing on the ventral side of the base, the notopodial 

 postsetal lobe undergoes no change in the anterior region. At somite 

 XVI the neuropodium becomes abruptly reduced in size, turned dorsad 

 as a narrow erect process, which may bear one or two small papillae 

 on its lateral margin but often lacks them, and is elevated upon a 

 winglike compressed base which unites it to and also bears the noto- 

 podium. Just above its base the neuropodium is constricted, and 

 distally is divided Lato a short, truncate, postsetal lip and a longer 

 postsetal and ventral acute conical lip (PI. XXI, fig. 173) between 

 which the acicula end and the small tuft of setae arises. The noto- 

 podium of XVI consists of a setigerous tubercle bearing a large spread- 

 ing fascicle of setae and provided with an erect, broad, lamellar, asym- 

 metrical ovate, postsetal lip which is abruptly constricted at the end 

 to a slender attenuated tip reaching nearly to the tips of the setae. 

 On succeeding segments parapodia (PI. XXI, fig. 173) continue to 

 change in the direction initiated on XVI, the thin basal plate rising 

 higher and the notopodia and neuropodia becoming more slender 

 and erect until they become strictly dorsal, with the two small erect 

 rami elevated on a lamelliform pedicle. The lips of the neuropodium 




b 



1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 313 



remain much as described, the presetal short and truncate, the post- 

 setal longer and acute. The notopodial presetal lip is obsolete and the 

 postsetal lip becomes much elongated, narrow and acute, with strongly 

 constricted base. The postsetal lobes of both rami contain numerous 

 irregular long, longitudinal vascular loops quite different in arrange- 

 ment from those in the gills. Neurocirrus (fig. 173) a slender, pointed 

 process rising a short distance ventral to the neuropodium, obsolete 

 in the anterior region and becoming very small toward the caudal end. 

 Notocirrus wanting unless represented by the gills. 



Acicula of anterior parapodia apparently a large number of simple 

 tapering rods not easily distinguished from setae. On posterior 

 segments there are two or three notopodial and usually one neuro- 

 podial acicula, both very slender and tapered. On segments XIII to 

 XV, inclusive, appears a series of five to seven stout, brown spines in a 

 vertical row at the cephalic margin of the much reduced palisade of 

 setae and which are probably to be considered as modified acicula. 

 The dorsalmost (PI. XXI, fig. 174) is much larger than the others and 

 projects very prominently and obliquely upward across the interramal 

 space. At its base, as noted above, is a cirrus and large pear-shaped 

 gland. Like the largest of the others, only the tips of which are 

 exposed, the dorsalmost spine ends in a thickened, spearlike, acute 

 point. Among the large spines are some smaller ones with attenuate 

 tips. 



Setae are all simple and of one type in both rami, though differing 

 considerably in proportions and structural details. Omitting the 

 above-described spines, all are more or less acute, tapered and flexible. 

 Notopodial setae are generally longer and more slender and arranged 

 in dense fan-shaped fascicles on anterior somites and in delicate tufts 

 of a few setae on posterior somites. Neuropodials of the anterior 

 region form dense phalanges of four to six ranks in which the setae 

 increase in length and change somewhat in structure from before 

 backward. On the posterior region they form erect tufts of very few 

 •etae similar in every respect to the notopodials. On the first few 

 parapodia notopodial and neuropodial setae differ only in length. 

 Both are colorless and slender. The basal portion of the exposed part 

 contains a conspicuous spiral canal (PI. XXI, fig. 175) wound round 

 a central fibrous axis and more capacious on one side than on the 

 other, so that the axis is somewhat eccentric. Farther out the canal 

 becomes reduced and then obsolete on the side upon which it was 

 least developed, thus leaving an asymmetrical camerated structure, often 

 accompanied by a very minute serrulation which gradually disappears, 

 21 




314 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



leaving nearly smooth, solid capillary tips. On the posterior region 

 the more slender and elongated setse have the structure of the more 

 delicate^arts of the anterior setse, the basal region with its canal being 

 absent and the shaft provided with minute appressed teeth. No 

 bifurcate setae, such as are present in A. johnsoni, can.be detected in 

 this species. In the neuropodium it is evident after a few somites 

 that the shorter setae of the first rank or two have become dark-colored 

 and have lost both the external serrulation and internal cavity. These 

 changes become emphasized for several segments. Setae of the pos- 

 terior rows are of the same type as the notopodial setae, but have the 

 basal canalization and cameration more evident and the slender 

 solid tips less prolonged. At the ventral end of the fascicle is a small, 

 somewhat isolated tuft of shorter setae, some of which are simple 

 spines finely serrulated along one margin and a few short blunt spines 

 with the ends enclosed in a mucronate hood. All of these differentia- 

 tions become more pronounced to somite XI, after which the stout 

 acicular spines appear in association with a conspicuous reduction in 

 the number and size of the other setae, particularly those of the anterior 

 rows. In this region the small ventral tuft is composed entirely of a 

 •few small hooded spines (fig. 176), below which is a second tuft of the 

 largest canaliculated setae remaining on the neuropodium. In the 

 posterior region the neuropodial setae have exactly the structure of 

 the notopodial, but are fewer in number. 



•; Branchiae begin on somite V of all specimens, rising from the dorsal 

 area as a pair of foliaceous, rather broadly lanceolate processes barely 

 reaching to the notopodia and separated by a distance greater than 

 their length. Proceeding caudad, they regularly increase in length and 

 size (PI. XXI, fig. 172) until by somite XL their length is about 

 three-fifths the width of the body, their form foliaceous lanceolate 

 and posture erect. On the posterior piece they have become fully 

 one-and-one-half times the body width and taper to filamentous tips, 

 being therefore much elongated and very conspicuous (PI. XXI, fig. 

 173). They show no special areas of strong ciliation, but are verji 

 richly vascular, having a large axial vessel with a spacious bulbous 

 expansion at the base and a complex bipinniform system of very nu- 

 merous lateral branches extending to the margins. Anteriorly the gills 

 are quite free from each other and from the notopodia, but as the 

 parapodia assume the dorsal position they become united by a trans- 

 verse membraneous fold that crosses the whole width of the dorsum. 



Proboscis very imperfectly known, only the ends of a few of the 

 lacinated divisions being exposed on any of the specimens. 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 315 



Color at anterior end pale yellow, fading out and leaving the poste- 

 rior end nearly colorless and much more translucent. A rather con- 

 spicuous series of median dorsal brown spots begins on VII and con- 

 tinues to the caudal end. On some of the specimens the anterior 

 spots are double. The only other color is a slight anterior cuticular 

 iridescence, the obscure eye-spot (?) on each side of the prostomium 

 and a duskiness of certain of the palisades of setae. 



Most of the examples are sexually mature, both males and females 

 occurring, the type being of the latter sex. A specimen from station 

 4,306 is noteworthy because of the occurrence of abnormalities, the 

 gills of many of the anterior segments being bifid and the postsetal 

 lobes more or less divided into slender often lacinated processes. 



Stations 4,306, off Point Loma Lighthouse, vicinity of San Diego> 

 207-497 fathoms, green mud, fine sand and gravel; 4,327, off Soledad 

 Hill, Point La Jolla, vicinity of San Diego, 263-330 fathoms, soft 

 green mud ; 4,339 (t3rpe), off Point Loma Lighthouse, 241-369 fathoms, 

 green mud. 



Explanation of Plates XV-XXI. 

 Unless stated otherwise, all drawings are made from the types. 



Plate XV. — Chloeia pinnata, figs. 1-6 (from cotype, station 4,475). 



Fig. 1. — Posterior ventral bifid notopodial seta from X, X 98, 



Fig. 2. — ^Tip of serrated notoseta from X, X 250. 



Fig. 3. — ^Tip of spxirred anterior notoseta from near notocirrus of X, X 98. 



Fig. 4. — a and b, respectively, tips of stout and slender neurosetae from X, 

 X 250. 



Fig. 5. — ^Tip of anterior neuroseta from X, X 98. 



Fig. 6. — Same of somite I, X 250. 

 Euphrosyne limbata, figs. 7-11. 



Fig. 7. — Fifth gill from somite X, incomplete, X 40. 



Fig. 8. — Main division of 3d gill from X, X 56. 



Fig. 9. — Large notoseta of X, X 98. 



Fig. 10. — Ventral neuropodial of X, X 98. 



Fig. 11. — Dorsal neuropodial of X; a, end of another with wider angle of 

 divergence of the spur, X 98. 

 Euphrosyne dumosa, figs. 12-17. 



Fig. l'2.— Gill from somite XV of cotype (station 4,470), X 56. 



Fig. 13. — Large smooth notopodial seta from 2d row of X, X 98. 



Fig. 14. — Small same from 3d row, X 98. 



Fig. 15. — Bifid serrate notoseta from X, X 98; a, tip of same, X 250. 



Fig. 16. — ^Ventral neuroseta from XV, X 98. 



Fig. 17. — Dorsal same, X 98. 



Fig. 18. — Nereis procera, parapodium L of male epitoke from station 

 4,355, X 40. 



Fig. 19. — Platynereis agassizi, two mature eggs from coelom of epitoke 

 from station 4,355, X 56. 

 Eunice multipectinata, figs. 20-23. 



Fig. 20. — Parapodium and gill from somite XXV, X 17. 



Fig. 21.— Compound seta from XV, X 250. 



Fig. 22. — Pectinate seta from L, X 440. 



Fig. 23. — A rather slender ventral crochet from CL, X 250. 




316 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



Nothria -pallida, figs. 24-28. 



P'ig. 24. — Anterior Anew of 2d parapodium, X 24. 



Fig. 25. — Posteiior view of 4th parapodium, X 24. 



Fig. 26.— Hooded crochet from IV, X 360. 



Fig. 27.— Pectinate seta from LXXV, X 440. 



Fig. 28.— End of crochet from XXV. X 250. 

 Plate XVI. — Marphysa conferta, figs. 29-34. 



Fig. 29. — Head and first four segments. 



Fig. 30.— Parapodium X with gill, X 56. 



Fig. 31. — Parapodium L, X 56. 



Fig. 32. — Compoimd seta from X, X 440. 



Fig. 33.— Pectinate seta from L, X 440. 



Fig. 34.— Crochet from L, X 360. 

 Nothria pallida, figs. 35-37. 



Fig. 35. — Parapodiimi L, X 24. 



Fig. 36. — Mandibles of cotype (station 4,401) from the venter, X 33. 



Fig. 37. — Maxillae of same from the dorsum, X 33. 

 Nothria species ?, figs. 38-40. 



Fig. 38.— Parapodium XXV, X 24. . . 



Fig. 39. — Compound crochet from III, X 440. 



Fig. 40.— End of simple crochet from XXV, X 250. 

 Nothria hiatidentata, figs. 41-50. 



Fig. 41. — Anterior end from the dorsum, X 5. 



Fig. 42. — Anterior aspect of 2d parapodium, X 24. 



Fig. 43. — Same of 4th parapodimn, X 24. 



Fig. 44. — Parapodium L, X 17. 



Fig. 45. — ^Tip of a much worn large spine from III, X 250. 



Fig. 46. — End of slightly worn crochet from IV seen in \ face, X 2^. 



Fig. 47. — End of a pectinate seta from IV, X 440. 



Fig. 48. — End of a large hooded crochet from L, X 250. 



Figs. 41-48 are all drawn from a cotype (station 4,387j. 

 Plate XVII.— 



Fig. 49. — Ventral Yie-w of mandibles of cotype, X 24. 



Fig. 50. — Dorsal view of maxillae of same, X 24. 

 Onuphis parva, figs. 51-57, all from cotype (station 4,446). 



Fig. 51. — Posterior aspect of parapodiiun III, X 56. 



Fig. 52. — Anterior aspect of parapodium V, X 56. 



Fig. 53. — Same of parapodium XXV, X 56. 



Fig. 54. — End of compound crochet of IV, X 600. 



Fig. 55.— Pectinate seta from XXV, X 600. 



Fig. 56.— End of hooded crochet from XXV, X 600. 



Fig. 57. — Slender crochet without guard fiom L, X 600. 

 Onuphis nebulosa, figs. 58-68, all from cotype (station 4,454).- 



Fig. 58. — Anterior aspect of parapodium III, X 33. 



Fig. 59.— Same of V, X 33. 



Fig. 60.— Same of L, with gill, X 33. 



Fig. 61. — End of a compound crochet from II, X 360. 



Fig. 62. — End of a compoimd crochet from VI, X 360. 



Fig. 63. — End of a transition compound seta from X, X 440. 



Fig. 64. — Pectinate seta from X, X 440. 



Fig. 65. — Transition hooded crochet from XV, X 440. 



Fig. 66.— Hooded crochet from LXXV, X 440. 



Fig. 67. — Ventral view of mandibles, X 33. 



Fig. 68. — Dorsal view of maxillae, X 33. 

 Onuphis vexillaria, figs. 69-76. 



Fig. 69. — Anterior aspect of parapodium III, X 24. 



Fig. 70.— Same of V, X 24. 



Fig. 71.— Same of L with gill, X 24. 



Fig. 72. — End of compound crochet from IV, X 440. 



Fig. 73. — Pectinate seta from a posterior segment, X 440. 



Fig. 74.— Tip of a crochet from L, X 360. 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 317 



Fig. 75. — A^entral aspect of one-half of a probably abnormal mandible, rep- 

 resented cut in two, X 24. 



Fig. 76. — Dorsal aspect of maxillae, X 24. 

 Plate XVIII. — Diopatra omata, figs. 77-85. 



Fig. 77. — Anterior aspect of parapodium III, X 24. 



Fig. 78. — Anterior aspect of parapodium XV, with gill, X 24. 



Fig. 79. — Large compound crochet from 1st foot, X 360. 



Fig. 80. — A slender compound crochet from 3d foot, X 360. 



Fig. 81. — A semi-articulated subacicular seta from somite VI, X 360. 



Fig. 82.— A pectinate seta from C, X 360. 



Fig. 83.^ — End of a large simple guarded crochet from C, X 360. 



Fig. 84. — Ventral aspect of left half of mandible, X 24. 



Fig. 85. — Dorsal view of maxillae of cotype (station 4,519), X 17. 

 Hyalinoecia juvenalis, figs. 86-95. 



Fig. 86. — Anterior aspect of parapodium of III, X 33. 



Fig. 87. — Posterior aspect of parapodium of V, X 33. 



Fig. 88. — Anterior aspect of parapodiiun XXV, with gill, X 33. 



Fig. 89.— Crochet from III, X 360. 



Fig. 90.— Crochet from XXV, X 250. 



Fig. 91. — Limbate seta from ventral fascicle of XXV, X 360. 



Fig. 92.— Pectinate seta fiom L, X 360. 



Fig. 93. — Left mandible of cotype from venter, X 33. 



Fig. 94.— Same of t}^e, X 33. 



Fig. 95. — Maxillae of type from the dorsum, somewhat crushed, X 33. 



Figs. 86, 87, 88 and 93' are from a cotype (station .4,431). 



Fig. 96. — Unworn tip of a hooded crochet of a young specimen of Hyalinoecia 

 tubicola stricta, seen in \ face, X 600. 



Fig. 97. — Same from L of a full-grown specimen, X 250. 

 Onuphis parva, figs. 98, 99. 



Fig. 98. — Cephalic end of mandible of a cotype (station 4,475), ventral 

 aspect, X 56. 



Fig. 99. — Dorsal aspect of the maxillae of the same, X 56. 



Fig. 100. — Dorsal view of anterior end of Onuphis nebulosa, X 9. 



Plate XIX. — Ninoe gemmea, figs. 101-109. 



Figs. 101-104.— Parapodia of V, XV, XXV and CXXV, respectively, 



profile outlines as seen from in front, X 33. 

 Fig. 105. — Limbate seta from XXV, a and h, respectively, profile and f-face 



views, X 98. 

 Fig. 106.— Crochet from XXV, X 98; a, tip of another, X 250. 

 Fig. 107.— End of crochet from C, X 440. 

 Figs. 108, 109. — Ventral view of mandibles and dorsal view of maxillae, 



respectively, of cotype (station 4,523), X 24. 

 Ninoe fusca, figs. 110-118. 



Fig. 110. — Prostomium and peristomium from above, X 9. 



Figs. 111-113. — Parapodia X, XXV and C, the first as seen from behind, 



the others from in front, X 82. 

 Fig. 114. — Supra-acicular limbate seta from X, X 250. 

 Fig. 115.— Same from C, X 250. 

 Fig. 116.— Crochet from C, X 250. 

 Fig. 117. — Dorsal view of mandibles, X 17. 

 Fig. 118. — Ventral view of maxillae, X 17. 

 Lumbrineris japonica index, figs. 119-127. 



Figs. 119-121. — Parapodia X, C and CXVII, outlines as seen from in front, 



from cotype (station 4,406), X 33. 

 Fig. 122.— Dorsal limbate seta from X, X 98. 

 Fig. 123. — Very slender dorsal seta from L of specimen from station 4,405, 



X 98. 

 Fig. 124. — Compound crochet from XX, X 250; a, head of same, X 440. 

 Fig. 125.— Crochet of somite XLVI, X 250. 

 Fig. 126. — Mandibles from dorsum, X 9. 

 Fig. 127. — Maxillae from venter, X 9. All figures except 123 from cotvpe 



(station 4,406). 




318 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



Lumbrineris inflata, figs. 128-132. 



Figs. 128-129. — Outlines of parapodia X and C, as seen from in front, X 56. 



Fig. 130. — Two limbate setie from X in profile and face views, X 250. 



Fig. 131. — Compound crochet from X. X 440. 



Fig. 132.— Simple crochet from C, X 440. 

 Plate XX. — Lumbrineris inflata, figs. 133 and 134 (cotype, station 4,496). 



Fig. 133. — ^Ventral view of mandibles, X 83. 



Fig. 134. — Dorsal \iew of maxillsK, X 83. 

 Lumbrineris bifilaris, figs. 135-142. 



Figs. 135-137. — Outlines of anterior aspects of parapodia X, C and CCL, X 33. 



Fig. 138. — Profile of ventral and face view of dorsal limbate seta from 

 somite X, X 98. 



Fig. 139. — Limbate crochet from somite V, f-face view, X 250; a, profile 

 view of tip of another, X 440. 



Fig. 140. — End of simple hooded crochet from C, X 250. 



Fig. 141. — ^Ventral view of mandibles of cotype (station 4,485), X 9. 



Fig. 142. — Maxillae of same, forceps jaws dorsal, other pieces ventral, X 9, 

 Aracoda semim/iculata, figs. 143-149. 



Figs. 143-145.— Parapodia X, C and CCL, from in front, X 33. 



Fig. 146.— Dorsal seta from X, X 250. 



Fig. 147.— Middle seta from LXXV, X 250. 



Fig. 148. — Outline of mandibles of cot>-pe (station 4,496), — 17. 



Fig. 149. — Maxillae of the same from the dorsal aspect, X 17. Ill, IV and V 

 indicate maxillae IV, V, and VI respectively, maxilla III being unlabeled . 

 Drilonereis falcata, figs. 150-154. 



Fig. 150. — Anterior aspect of parapodium X of cotype, X 56. 



Fig. 151. — Anterior aspect of parapodium C, X 83. 



Fig. 152.— Seta from XXV, X 440. 



Fig. 153. — Mandibles of cotvpe (station 4,460) from the dorsum, X 33. 



Fig. 154. — Maxillae of same from venter, X 33. 

 Glycera branchiopoda, figs. 155 and 156. 



Fig. 155. — The three forms of proboscis papillae from a cotype (station 4,517), 



a, c and c, respectively, X 250. 



Fig. 156. — Jaw appendage of the same, X 56. 



Plate XXI.^-GZycera branchiopoda, figs. 157-159. 



Figs. 157-159. — Parapodia X, L and C, respectively, the first and last in 



caudal aspect, X 40, L in cephalic aspect, X 24. 

 Glycinde armigera, figs. 160-171. 



Fig. 160. — Dorsal view of prostomium of cotype (station 4,310), X 56. 

 Figs. 161-163. — Anterior aspects of parapodia V, XXV and C (concealed 



outlines dotted), X 56. 

 Fig. 164. — Part of a shorter ventral neuropodial seta from XXX, X 400. 

 Fig. 165. — Exposed portion of a notopodial seta from XXX, X 400. 

 Fig. 166. — Elements of the circle of jaws; a, large ventral jaw, X 125; 



b, one from the dorsal arch, X 250; c, c, two forms of smaller size from the 

 dorsal arch, X 250. 



Fig. 167. — Large paragnaths from the ventral bands, in profile and top 



view, X 250. 

 Fig. 168. — Profile and top views of small papillae (paragnaths) from ventral 



bands, X 250. 

 Fig. 169. — ^Two papillae (paragnaths) from dorsal bands near jaws, X 98. 

 Fig. 170.-^-Large bifid paragnath from dorsal bands, X 250. 

 Fig. 171. — ^Two of the small scattered papillae, X 250. 

 Figs. 166-171 are drawn from a cotype (station 4,548). 

 Aricia nuda, figs. 172-176. 



Fig. 172. — Outline of parapodium and gUl of X from behind, X 17. 



Fig. 173.— Same of L from in front, X 24. 



Fig. 174. — Large dorsal neuropodial spine with gland and cirrus from XV, 



X 56. 

 Fig. 175. — Small portion of base of neuropodial of X; a, from the side; b, 



from front, X 600. 

 Fig. 176. — Hooded spine from ventral part of neuropodium of XV, X 250. 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 319 



RECORDS AND DESCRIPTIONS OF AFRICAN MANTID^ AND PHASMID^ 



(ORTHOPTERA). 



BY JAMES A. G, REHN. 



The material on which the following notes were based is chiefly 

 from Harrar, Abyssinia, the Kikuyu Escarpment and Mombasa, 

 British East Africa, and Mossamedes, Angola. Aside from the Mom- 

 basa series which belongs to the Hebard Collection, the material is 

 almost entirely contained in the Academy collection. In addition 

 to data on the material from the localities given above, supplementary 

 notes are here given on certain Northeast African Mantidae previously 

 reported upon in these Proceedings.^ 



The author wishes to thank Mr. Morgan Hebard for the opportunity 

 to examine the small but interesting Mombasa series from his collec- 

 tion. 



MANTIDuSl. 



ORTHODERINiE. 



EL^EA StM. 



Elsea marohali (Reiche and Fairmaire). 



1847. E[remiaphila] marchali Reiche and Fairmaire, in Ferret and Galinier, 

 Voy. en Abyssinie, III, p. 424, Zool., pi. 27, fig. 5. [Locality implied: 

 Abyssinia.] 



Harrar, Abyssinia. One female. 



TARACHODES Burmeister. 

 Taraohodes karsohii Werner. 



1907. Tarachodes Karschii Werner, Sitzungsb. K. Akad. Wissensch., Wien, 

 Math.-nat. Kl., CXVI, Heft II, Abt. I, p. 212. [Bondei and Dar-es- 

 Salaam, German East Africa; coast of German East Africa; Lake 

 Tanganyika.] 



Kikuyu Escarpment, British East Africa. Two males. 



These specimens apparently are not separable from the typical 

 material of the species. It might be mentioned that the spines on 

 the internal face of the cephalic femora and tibiae are black to their 

 bases^ instead of black-tipped as are the external spines on the same 

 limbs. 



1 Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1901, pp. 276-288. 




320 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



This record connects the original localities with nine recent records 

 by the original author from Danakil and Abyssinia. 



Tarachodes sestuans Saussure. 



1895. T[arachodes] cBstuans Saussure, Ann. Mus. Civ. Stor. Nat., Geneva, 



XXXV, p. 91. [Laffarugh, Ogaden, Somaliland.] 

 1901. Tarachodes smithi Rehn [ $ not c? ], Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 



1901, p. 278. [Tug Berka, Somaliland.] 



After re-examination and comparison with representatives of a 

 number of species of this genus, the immature female formerly placed 

 under T. smithi has been found to be distinct from the male, and as 

 far as possible to determine in its condition should be referred to 

 Saussure's species, 



Tarachodes smithi Rehn. 



1901. Tarachodes smithi Rehn [cJ* not $ ], Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 



1901, p. 278. [Tug Terfa, Somaliland.] 

 1907. Tarachodes taramassi Giglio-Tos, Bollett. Mus. Zool. ed Anat. 



Comp., Torino, XXII, nr. 563, p. 5. [Mogadisciu, Somaliland.] 



This species is found on re-examination to be quite distinct from 

 any of the older forms, its closest relationship doubtless being with 

 T. media Schulthess, while its general slender form and non-rugose 

 integument strongly suggests species of Galepsus, but the shape and 

 proportions of the head are essentially those of Tarachodes. 



The description of laramnssi agrees fully with the male type of 

 smithi. 



GALEPSUS St&l. 



Galepsus capitatus (Saussure). 



1871. Ch[iropacha] capitata Saussure, Melanges Orthopt^rologiques, III, p. 

 166, PI. 4, fig. 2. [Africa.] 



Kikuyu Escarpment, British East Africa. One male. 

 This species has been recorded from a number of localities extending 

 from Delagoa Bay to Abyssinia and from Zanzibar to the Congo. 



Galepsus meridionalis form montanus Werner. 



1907. G[alepsus] meridionalis var. montana Werner, Sitzungsb. K. Akad. 

 Wissensch., Wien, Math.-natur. Kl.,CXVI,Heft II, Abt. I, p. 220. [Between 

 Taveta and Meru; Kilimanjaro.] 



Mombasa, British East Africa. Five males. [Hebard Collection.] 

 These specimens agree very well with the brief original description 

 of this form, which is apparently a geographic race. The measure- 

 ments of the pronotum show extremes of 5.8 x 2.5 mm. and 6^5 x 3, 

 while the tegmina are uniformly slightly longer than the original 

 measurement, ranging from 18 to 18.5 mm., against the original 15.4. 




1911.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



MANTIN^. 

 ENTELLA St&l. 



321 



Entella asambarioa Sjostedt. 



1909. Entella usambarica Sjostedt, Wissensch. Ergebn. Schw. Zool. Exp. 

 Kilimandj. Meru, XVII, p. 58, PI. 4, fig. 8. [Mombo, Usambara.] 



Mombasa, British East Africa. Three males. [Hebard Collection.] 

 These specimens agi-ee very well with the description of this species. 

 The amount of blackish maculations on the head, pronotum and 



limbs is very variable, differing in some degree in all three specimens. 



It is quite possible that E. lamperti Werner^ from Tanga, Usambara, 



is the female of this species. 



POLYSPILOTA Burmeister. 



Polyspilota variegata (Olivier). 



1792. Mantis variegata Olivier, Encycl. Meth., Ins., VII, p. 638. [Angola.] 



South Africa. One male. 



Merule to Murchison Falls, Uganda. One adult and one immature 

 female. 



Mombasa. (Hebard Collection.) One male, one female. 



The South African male and the Mombasa male belong to the 

 color-form pustulata as defined by Werner,^ the Uganda and Mombasa 

 female to color-form striata. Indications seem to point to the fact 

 that east and south African individuals of variegata are larger than 

 west African (forest land) specimens. Liberian specimens average very 

 small, and specimens from the eastern edge of the great forest, west 

 of Albert Nyanza, recorded by the author^ are very similar. Luebo, 

 Congo, specimens, however, are like southern individuals. 



The specimens in the present series measure as follows : 



^ Jahresb. Ver. Vaterldnd. Naiurk. Wiirttemberg, LXII, p. 364. 

 » Bericht Senckenb. Naturf. Gesell., 1908, p. 38. 



* Ergebn. Deutsch. Cent.-Afr. Ex-ped. 1907-1908, unter Fiihrimg Adolf Fried. 

 Herzog zu Mecklenburg, Zool., Orthoptera. 




322 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



SPHODEOMANTIS St&l. 



Sphodromantis radolfse (Rebn). 



1901. Sphodropoda rudolfce Rehn, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1901, p. 282. 

 [Near southern end of Lake Rudolf, western Gallaland.] 



Harrar, Abyssinia. One male. 



This form, which may be merely a geographic race of S. biocvlata, 

 differs from the latter in the generally smaller size, broader head, 

 breadth of pronotum, and shorter pronotum, cephalic femora and teg- 

 mina, which latter in the female fall considerably short of the apex 

 of the abdomen. 



The Harrar male measures as follows: length of body, 42.5 mm.; 

 greatest width of head, 6.8; length of pronotum, 11.5; greatest width 

 of pronotum, 4.2; length of tegmen, 35; length of cephalic femur, 10. 



Sphodromantis lineola (Burmeister). 



1838. M[antis (Stagmatoptera)} lineola Burmeister, Handb. d. Entom., II. 

 Abth. II, Pt. 1, p. 537. [Sierra Leone.] 



Mombasa. One male. [Hebard Collection.] 



This specimen is almost uniform greenish-yellow in color. 



HOFLOCOBTFHA St&l. 



Hoplocorypha galeata (Geretaecker). 



1870. Mantis (Danuria?) galeata Gerstaecker, .\ichiv fiir Naturgeschichte , 

 XXXV, p. 210. [Lake Jipe, German East Africa.] 



German East Africa. One male, one female. 



Kikuyu Escarpment, British East Africa. Two immature females. 



Hoplocorypha macra (StM). 



1856. [Mantis] macra Stal, Ofv. K. Vet.-Akad. Forh., XIII, p. 169. [Port, 

 Natal.] 



IVIerule to Murchison Falls, Uganda. One female. 



Mombasa, B. E. Africa. One female. [Hebard Collection.] 



Zambesia. One female. 



Transvaal. (C. W. Howard.) Two males. 



Mossamedes, Angola. One female. 



From the evidence of this material it appears that this species ranges 

 north along the east coast to Mombasa and in the interior to Uganda. 

 It is probable that it is not found in the same region as Gerstaecker's 

 galeata, which may be restricted to the more elevated regions of East 

 Africa, although the evidence is too slight to make any deductions. 

 However, the above facts may explain the inability of some previous 

 authors to separate East African material presumed to represent 

 galeata from South African examples of macra. 




I 



1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 323 



CALIDOMANTIS Rehn. 

 Calidomantis affinis (Sjostedt). 



1909. Miomantis affinis Sjostedt, Wissensch. Ergebn. Schw. Zool. Exp. 

 Kilimandj. Meru, XVII, p. 63. [Kibonoto, Lower Culture-zone, Kili- 

 manjaro.] 



Kikiiyii Escarpment, Brit. East Africa. Two males. 



These specimens show that this form i^ very close to C. quadri- 

 punctata Saussure, differing chiefly in the greater size. The dimen- 

 sions of these specimens are as follows: 



The original description and the above record constitute all we 

 know of the species. 



Calidomantis kilimandj arica (Sjostedt). 



1909. Miomantis kilimandjarica Sjostedt, Wissensch. Ergebn. Schwed. 

 Zoolog. Exped. Kilimandj. Meru, XVII, p. 64. [Kibonoto Culture- 

 zone, Lower Culture-zone, Kilimanjaro.] 



German East Africa. One male. 



This specimen is in the brown phase, with much of the body sprinkled 

 with dark brown. Iji size it is less than the type measurements, its 

 dimensions being as follows: length of body, 28.5; width of head, 

 3.8; length of pronotum, 7.5; greatest width of pronotum, 1.6; 

 length of tegmen, 22; length of cephalic femur, 6.2. 



A male specimen from Mgunda, German East Africa (Langheld), 

 taken December, 1895, belonging to the Berlin Museum, has also been 

 examined. 



Calidomantis pharaonioa (Saussure). 



1898. M[iomantis] pharaonica Saussure, Revue Suisse de Zoologie, V, p. 193. 

 [Egypt; Senaar.] 



Merule to Murchison Falls, Uganda. One male. 



Werner* has recorded this species from the Bahr-el-Gebel (Station 



Bor) region. 



OXYOPHTHALMUS Saussure. 

 Oxyophthalmns somalicus n- sp. 



1901. Oxyophthalma gracila Rehn (not of Saussure, 1861), Proc. Acad. 

 Nat. Sci. Phila., 1901, p. 286. [Bodele, Tug Terfa, Somaliland.] 



Type: & ; Bodele, Tug Terfa, Somaliland. August 20, 1894. 

 (Dr. A. Donaldson Smith.) [A. N. S. P., type No. 5166.] 



*Sitzungsb. K. Akad. Wissensch., Wien, Math.-nat. Kl., CXVI, Abt. 1, p. 240. 




324 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[April. 



This specimen is clearly a representative of the genus Oxyophthal- 

 mus, which otherwise is only known from India and Ceylon, and does 

 not belong to Paroxyophthalmus collaris (Saussure) as surmised by 

 Werner." The form of the pronotum is decidedly the subequal non- 

 attenuate type found in Oxyophthalmus. 



This species differs from gracilis, the type of the genus, in having 

 the head less arcuate emarginate dorsad, the eyes less produced with 

 divergent points, the pronotum shorter and the face distinctively 

 colored. 



Size small; form slender. Head with the exposed dorsal length 

 contained about three and one-half times in the length of the pronotum, 

 occipital line moderately subarcuate emarginate, the greater (median) 

 portion being truncate ; ocelli large, arranged in a triangle ; facial shield 

 slightly higher than broad, dorsal margin very narrowly produced 

 mesad, slightly arcuato-emarginate ventrad of each antennal base, 

 lateral and ventral margins subtruncate ; antennae at least two-thirds 

 as long as the body (incomplete in type) ; eyes elongato-ovate in basal 

 outline, not prominent laterad, but slightly produced and bluntly 

 mammillate dorsad, the corneal points divergent. Pronotum elongate, 

 roughly subequal, collar about as broad as the supracoxal width, 

 shaft slightly narrower than the width of cephalic portion of pronotum, 



cephalic margin 'of same moderately 

 arcuate, caudal margin arcuate laterad, 

 truncate mesad; no medio-longitudinal 

 sulcus or carina present; greatest 

 pronotal width contained slightly 

 more than three times in the length. 

 Tegmina equal to twice the length of 

 the head and pronotum together, 

 narrow, hyaline; costal field broad in 

 proximal half; apex narrowly rounded. 

 Wings extending beyond tegmina a 

 distance equal to the exposed dorsal 

 length of head ; apex narrowly rounded. 

 Apex of abdomen mutilated. Cephalic 

 coxae not quite reaching to the caudal 

 margin of pronotum, cephalic margin 

 unarmed ; cephalic femora slightly ex- 

 ceeding coxae in length, slender, dorsal margin slightly arcuate in 

 proximal two-thirds, discoidal spines four in number and placed 



Fig. 1. — Oxyophthalmus somali- 

 CU8 n. sp. Dorsal view of 

 head, pronotum and cephalic 

 hmb. (X 6.) 



* Sitzungsb. K. Akad.^Wissensch., Wien, Math.-nat. Kl., CXVI, Abt. 1, p. 256. 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 325 



proximad, external spines five in number (including distal one), internal 

 spines eleven in number, the distal one separated from the others by a 

 considerable interval ventrad of the femoral brushes; cephalic tibiae 

 (exclusive of claw) equal to about three-fifths of the femoral length, 

 armed externally with ten spines, internally with ten to eleven spines ; 

 cephalic tarsi very long and slender, the length being more than one 

 and a half times the tibial length, metatarsi alone about three- 

 fourths the tibial length. Median limbs very short, femora being no 

 longer than the cephalic coxae. Caudal limbs of medium length, 

 femora slightly inflated in proximal halff tarsi equal to three-fifths 

 of the tibial length. 



General color clay-color, the dorsum of the pronotum and the 

 middle of the dorsum of head washed with drab and the cephalic 

 limbs largely gamboge-yellow. Face bistre ventrad ; from the antennal 

 bases extend ventrad a pair of parallel straw-yellow lines; antennae 

 of the same color ; eyes obscurely barred with bistre. Tegmina and 

 wings very pale brownish hyaline. Cephalic coxae clear gamboge- 

 yellow; trochanter and femora lined ventro-laterad with bistre, finely 

 dotted with same dorsad; tibiae thickly sprinkled with bistre; all 

 spines tipped with dark brown. Median and caudal femora thickly 

 punctate with bistre which is arranged more or less in longitudinal 

 series. 



Measurements. 



Length of body (abdomen incomplete), 23.0 mm. 



Length of pronotum, . 6.2 



Greatest width of pronotum, 1.8 



Length of tegmen, 17.0 



Length of cephalic femur, 4.2 



Length of median femur, 3.0 



Length of caudal femur, 5.2 



The type is unique. 



EFISCOFTJS Saussure. 



Epitoopus ohalybseus (Burmeister). 



1838. Sch[izocephala] chalybcea Burmeister, Handb. d. Entom., Bd. II, Abth. 

 II, Pt. 1, p. 552. [Locality unknown.] 



Kikuyu Escarpment, Brit. East Africa. One male. 

 Apparently this is the only exact record of the occurrence of the 

 species in East Africa. 



^This may indicate considerable saltatorial ability as found in the genus 

 Yersinia, which has similarly subinflated femora. 




326 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[April. 



CAEVILIA St&l. 

 Carvilia agrionina (Gerstaecker). 



1869. Mantis (Photina) agrionina Gerstaecker, Archiv fur Naturgesch.. 

 XXXV, p. 209. [Mombasa.] 



1898. Parasphendale minor Schulthess-Schindler, Ann. Mus. Civ. Stor. Nat., 

 Geneva, XXXIX, p. 177. [Webi River, Ogaden, Biduara, Errer, Somali- 

 land.] 



1901. Parasphendale minor Rehn, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1901, p. 285. 

 [Sheikh Husein and Tulu, Gallaland.] 



Kikuyu Escarpment, Brit. East Africa. One immature male. 

 Harrar, Abyssinia. One female. 



This latter specimen and the Sheikh Husein individual referred to 

 above measure as follows : 



Length of body, .... 

 Greatest width of head, 

 Length of pronotum, 

 Greatest width of pronotum. 

 Length of tegmen, . 

 Length of cephalic femur, . 



Harrar $ . 

 53.0 mm. 



9.0 

 18.2 



5.5 

 20.5 

 15.0 



Sheikh 

 Husein $ 



45.0 mm. 



8.0 " 

 16.2 " 



5.0 " 

 17.5 " 

 13.5 " 



The form minor of Schulthess does not appear separable specifically 

 from Gerstaecker's species, the Sheikh Husein individual being nearly 

 topotypic of minor, and both this and the Harrar specimen are insepa- 

 rable from material from the region to the south. Werner has recorded 

 this species from the vicinity of Harrar and from Djildessa on the 

 border region of Somali and Galla lands. 



CREOBOTRIN^. 

 OXYPILUS Serville. 

 Ozypilui oapensis (Saussure). 



1871. Ox[i/pi7tfs] capensis Sanssuie, Melanges Orthopter., Ill, p. 317, PI. 6, 

 figs. 52, 52a. [Cape of Good Hope.] 



German East Africa. One female. 



This specimen^ when compared with individuals of 0. annvlatus 

 Serville, shows that the two species are closely related, differing chiefly 

 in the more inflated median portion of the pronotum in capensis, 

 which also has the pronotal tubercles more numerous. 



HAEPAGOMANTIS Kirby. 



Harpagomantis tricolor (Linnsens). 



1758. [Gryllus (Mantis) ] tricolor Linnaeus, Syst. Nat., X ed., I, p. 426. 

 ["Indiis."] 



South Africa. Three females: 



Johannesburg, Transvaal, 6,000 feet, January-April, 1899, (J, P. 

 Cregoe,) Two adult females, one immature female. 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 327 



JALLA Giglio-Tos. 



Jalla radiosa Giglio-Tos. 



1907. J[alla] radiosa Giglio-Tos, BoUett. Mus. Zool. ed Anat. Comp., Torino, 

 XXII, nr. 563, p. 14. [Kazungula, Upper Zambesi.] 



Zambesia. One female. 



This hitherto unique genus and species is a most peculiar member of 

 the Vatinse, showing no close relationship to any of the other genera. 

 The general outline of the pronotum is strikingly like that of the 

 Orthoderine genera Humbertiella and Theopompa, but the excrescences 

 and spines are radically different from anything found in those genera, 

 while the other characters show no sort of analogous development. 



As this is the first recognized female of the genus, a few notes made 

 in comparison with the description of the male may be of service : 



Ocelli smaller (sexual). Pronotum less distinctly medio-longitudi- 

 nally sulcate caudad; margins of same non-ciliate. Tegmina short, 

 reaching but half-way to the apex of the abdomen, ovate, coriaceous, 

 apex broadly rounded ; costal field rather narrow, this area, the region 

 of the principal veins and the apical region with a number of scattered 

 • tuberculiform excrescences. Wings very slightly surpassing the tips 

 of the tegmina, the exposed area of similar coriaceous structure to 

 that of the tegmina. Internal cephalic femoral margin with fourteen 

 spines, including the distal one; internal cephalic tibial margin with 

 ten spines, exclusive of apical claw; abdomen strongly depressed, 

 lateral angles rotundato-rectangulate, dorsal surface with longitudinal 

 series of linear tubercles on the caudal portion of the segments. 



Measurements. 



Length of body, 38.0 mm. 



Length of pronotum, 9.5 " 



Greatest width of pronotum, 6.8 " 



Length of tegmen, 13.5 " 



Greatest width of tegmen, . . 7.6 " 



Length of cephalic femur, 12.0 " 



IDOLOMOBFHA Burmeister. 



Idolomorpha dentifrons Saussure and Zehntner. 



1895. Idolomorpha dentifrons Saussure and Zehntner, in Grandidier, Hist. 

 Phys. Nat. et Polit. Madagascar, Orth., Blatt.-Mant., pp. 242, 244. 

 [Zanzibar.] 



Mombasa. One female. [Hebard Collection.] 

 This species, the only East African one of the genus, is known to 

 range from Delagoa Bay to the White Nile and the Ogaden country. 




328 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



BLEPHABOPSIS Rehn. 



BlepharopBis mendioa(Fabricius). 



1775. [Mantis] mendica Fabricius, Syst. Entom., p. 275. [Alexandria, 

 Egypt.] 



Gafsa, Tunis. One female. [Hebard Collection.] 



The distribution of this species in Africa is quite extensive, appar- 

 ently covering all of the northern third of the continent, as it has been 

 recorded from the Canaries, Senegambia, Tunis, Egypt, Nubia, Schoa, 

 Kordofan, Abyssinia and Somaliland. It also occurs in Syria and 

 Arabia. 



IDOLTJU Saussiire. 



Idolum diabolioum Saussure. 



1870. I[dolum] diaholicum Saussure, Mitth. Schw. Ent-'Gesell/JIIjIpp. 223. 

 [Africa.] 



German East Africa. One immature female. 



PHASMIDiB. 

 BACILLINtE. ' 

 XYLICA Karsch. 

 Xylioa kikuyuensis n. sp. 



Type: ^ ; Kikuyu Escarpment, British East Africa. [Acad. Nat. 

 Sci. Phila., type No. 5,170.] 



Allied to X. abhreviata Redtenbacher from Ukami Mountains, German 

 East Africa, and caligulata Redtenbacher from Zanzibar, differing from 

 both in the peculiar development of the dorsal surface of the fifth 

 abdominal segment and the smaller size, also from abbreviata in the 

 shorter and more robust mesothorax, metathorax and limbs and from 

 caligulata in the simpler and more usual type of operculum. The 

 cephalic metatarsi show some indications of the cristation found in 

 caligulata, while the antennal length is the same as in abbreviata, 

 although the coloration of the latter is as found in kilimandjarica 

 Sjostedt, from which kikuyuensis can be immediately separated by 

 the form of the fifth abdominal segment and the longer antennae. 



Size medium; form fairly robust; surface granulose and rugulose. 

 Head distinctly longer than the prothorax, slightly longer than broad, 

 surface with numerous granular tubercles; cephalic horns two in 

 number, prominent, sharp, divergent; occipital margin laterally with 

 sulci separating decided trigonal elevations from the low median 




1911.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



329 



Fig. 2. — Xylica ki- 

 kuyuensis n. sp. 

 Dorsal outline of 

 fifth abdominal 

 segment (?). 

 (X 5.) 



paired tubercles; eyes elliptical, prominent; antennae subequal to 

 the cephalic femora in length, composed of twenty joints, proximal 

 one compressed, lamellate. Prothorax slightly longitudinal, rect- 

 agonal, caudal margin with a median pair of tubercles. Mesothorax 

 slightly less than three times the length of the prothorax, subequal 

 to the prothorax except caudad where it is somewhat expanded, 

 medio-longitudinal carina distinct and continuous over the metathorax 

 as well; supplementary carinse reaching about to middle of segment, 

 sinuate, lateral margins undulato-carinate. Metathorax about two- 

 thirds the length of mesothorax, much similar 

 in character, but with the supplementary carinas 

 reaching about to the median segment, then 

 curving laterad; median segment comprising 

 two-fifths of the total metathoracic length, 

 imperfectly defined, very slightly transverse, 

 supplied caudad with paired tubercles as on the 

 mesonotum. Abdomen with distinct median and 

 supplementary longitudinal carinse, as well as more 

 or less complete lateral ones and numerous short 

 rugae ; each of the four proximal segments with a caudal pair of tubercles, 

 as on the mesonotum and median segment ; median carina on fifth to 

 eighth segment cristate sublamellate ; fifth dorsal abdominal segment 

 supplied with paired horizontal dentate lobes developed on each side of 

 the base of the median crest; anal segment obtuse-angulate distad; 

 cerci broad, depressed, apex acute ; subgenital operculum spoon-shaped, 

 carinate ventrad, apically margin acute- angulate, the immediate apex 

 rounded. Mesosternum distinctly medio-longitud- 

 inally carinate. Cephalic limbs short; femora' 

 decidedly compressed, proximal flexure very 

 marked; tibiae slightly longer than the femora, 

 compressed ; metatarsi subcristate. Median limbs 

 very short, femora not as long as the mesothorax. 

 Caudal limbs short, femora compressed. 



General color probably pale greenish in life, 

 some of the insect being now of this color, thq remainder undoubtedly 

 discolored and of a dull brownish. Antennae annulate more or less 

 regularly on alternate segments with Vandyke brown ; eyes walnut- 

 brown, crossed by one of several lateral longitudinal lines of Van- 

 dyke brown. Cephalic tibiae tipped with dark brown. Vicinity of 

 cephalic horns and internal portion of proximal extremity of cephalic 

 femora pinkish. 

 22 



Fig. 3. — Xylica ki- 

 kuyuensis n. sp. 

 Lateral outline 

 of apex of abdo- 

 men (9). (X3.) 




330 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Aprfl, 



Length of body, 

 Length of prothorax, . 

 Length of raesothorax, 

 Length of metathorax, 

 Length of cephalic femur, 

 Length of median femur, 

 Length of caudal femur, 

 The type is unique. 



Measurements. 



CLITUMNINiE. 

 GEATIDIA St&l. 



Gratidia montana Branner. 



1907. Griatidia] montana Brunner, Die Insektenf. Phasm., II, p. 223. [Kili- 

 manjaro; Abyssinia.] 



Tanga, German East Africa. One female. 



Sjostedt has recently recorded this species* from the lower culture- 

 zone of Kibonoto, Kilimanjaro and from Meru, also adding additional 

 notes on the structure of the sexes. The specimen in hand is larger 

 than any previously measured from German East Africa, the dimen- 

 sions being as follows: length of body 84.5 mm.; length of prothorax 

 2.8 ; length of mesothorax 17 ; length of metathorax 15 ; length of cephalic 

 femur 27; length of median femur 19; length of caudal femur 25. 

 Gratidia nebulosipes n. sp. 



Type: c?; Kikuyu Escarpment, British East Africa. [Acad. Nat. 

 Sei. Phila., type No. 5,171.] 



Allied to G. fissa Karsch from German East Africa, but differing in 

 the non-dilated apex of the but marginally excised process of the anal 

 segment and in the shorter thoracic segments and limbs. Some 

 relationship exists to G. tenuis Sjostedt^ but the narrower process of 

 the anal segment and less produced character of the same will at once 

 separate the new form. 



Size rather small; form slender; limbs but moderately elongate. 

 Head but slightly longer than the prothorax, very slightly narrowed 



caudad, the interocular transverse low 

 inflation and the fine medio-longitudinal 

 sulcus as in numerous other species of 

 the genus ; occipital margin slightly pro- 

 duced into a pair of median very low 

 subtrigonal tubercles; eyes subglobose, 

 slightly flattened; antennae half the 

 length of the cephalic femora, seven- 



Fig. 4. — Gratidia nebulosipes 

 n. sp. Dorsal view of apex of 

 abdomen (6^). (X 6.) 



' Wissen. Ergebn. Schwed. ZoqI. Exp. Kilimandj. u. Meru, XVII, p. 84. 

 • Wissen. Ergebn. Schwed. Zool. Exped. Kilimandjaro u. Meru, XVII, p. 85, 

 fig. .5. [Kilimanjaro, Meru and Usambara.] 




1911.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



331 



teen-jointed. Prothorax with the lateral pronotal margins subparallel, 

 slightly in-bent cephalad and caudad, cephalic margin of pronotum 

 subarcuate emarginate, caudal margin of same subtruncate, transverse 

 sulcus distinctly impressed mesad. Mesothorax three-fourths the 

 length of the median femora, supplied with a fine medio-longitudinal 

 carinula. Metathorax slightly shorter than the mesothorax, with a 

 similar extremely weak carinula; median segment subquadrate. 

 Abdomen of moderate length, the segments longitudinal, but not 

 excessively prolonged, toward apex of the abdomen lateral and median 

 carinulae are faintly indicated ; anal segment fornicate, produced meso- 

 caudad, the projection being not a half the length of the segment 

 itself, dorsal surface with a distinct medio-longitudinal carina more 

 distinct on the process, lateral margins regularly converging from the 

 cereal bases caudad, the apex of the process shallowly V-emarginate ; 

 cerci inserted at the middle of the segment proper, narrowest in the 

 premedian section, distal extremity enlarged, subclavate and trigonal 

 in section, immediate apex bluntly acute, when viewed from the dorsum 

 the cerci are seen to be strongly arcuate in the proximal half; sub- 

 genital plate hardly inflated, reaching to the base of the anal segment, 

 distal margin arcuate with a pair of small, short, rotundate median 

 lobes, a weak medio-longitudinal carina present on distal half of plate. 

 Cephalic femora almost equal to the 

 head and thoracic segments in length; 

 cephalic tibiae exceeding the femoral 

 length by about the length of the head. 

 Median femora not exceeding the pro- 

 and mesothorax in length; median 

 tibiae slightly exceeding the femora 



Fig. 5. — Gratidia nebulosipes 

 n. sp. Lateral outline of apex 

 of abdomen (d^). (X 6.) 



Caudal femora equal to two- 

 thirds the 'length of the cephalic femora; caudal tibiae exceeding the 

 femora by slightly less than the length 6f the head. 



General color Prout's brown, becoming bistre towards the apex of 

 the abdomen, the latter region sparingly marked with hoary white. 

 Head and prothorax with the base color near wood-brown, indistinct 

 postocular bars of the general color present; antennae drab. Limbs 

 clouded and varied with the general color, tawny-olive and soiled buff. 



Measurements. 



46.0 mm. 

 2.2 " 



Length of body. 

 Length of prothorax, . 

 Length of mesothorax, 

 Length of metathorax. 

 Length of cephalic femur, 

 Length of median femur. 

 Length of caudal femur, 



9.0 



8.2 



21.0 



10.8 



14.5 




332 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



Two paratypic males show that the species probably varies little 

 in size and structure, but considerably so in color. The general color 

 lightens to general wood-brown tints and also toward greenish; in the 

 former phase the legs are hardly clouded, while in the latter the dark 

 shades remain as in the type, and the clouding is, in consequence, of 

 even greater contrast. 



LEPTYNIA Pantel. 



1890. Leptynia Pantel, An. Soc. Espafi. Hist. Nat., XIX, p. 385. 

 Apparently Maransis Karsch {Entom. Nachrich., XXIV, pp. 365, 

 381, 1898) should be referred to this genus as a sjoionym. 



Leptynia rufolineatns (Schulthess). 



1899. M\aransis\ rufolineatus Schulthess, Bull. Soc. Vaudoise Sci. Nat., 

 Lausanne, XXXV, p. 200, PI. VIII, fig. 4. [Delagoa.] 



1904. Maransis rufolineatus Rehn, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1904, p. 83. 

 [Zulu Mission, South Africa.] 



This species should be placed in the vicinity of L. prospera Brunner 

 and aspericollis (Bates), to both of which it is extremely close, if really 

 separable from one or the other. Brunner in his monograph has 

 omitted this species as well as the related mozamhicus Westwood and 

 trilineatiis Stal. 



Leptynia senez n. sp. 



Type: ? ; Kikuyu Escarpment, British East Africa. [Acad. Nat. 

 Sci. Phila., type No. 5,172.] 



In the sublobate median femora this species shows relationship 

 to L. pluto Rehn*" from Lake Kivu, but the more robust and hoary 

 granulate body, the longer operculum and more compressed and 

 apically emarginate anal segment are distinctive of senex. 



Size rather large; form moderately elongate; surface of thorax 

 irregularly and bluntly granulate. Head slightly more than half 

 again as long as the prothorax, gradually narrowing caudad; inter- 

 ocular region slightly inflated; occipital margin slightly impressed 

 mesad; eyes subelliptical in basal outline, hardly prominent ; antennae 



Fig. 6. — Leptynia senex n. sp. Lateral outline of apex of 

 abdomen ( $ ). (X 6.) 



^^ In Ergebnisse der Deutschen Cent.-Afr. Exped. 1907-1908, unter Fuhrung Adolf 

 Friedrichs, Herzog zu Mecklenburg, Zool., Orth. (In press.) 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 333 



contained about three and one-half times in the length of the cephalic 

 femora, non-clavate, seventeen-jointed. Prothorax with the dorsum 

 narrowing to a premedian point of least width; cephalic margin 

 gently arcuato-emarginate, caudal margin subtruncate, Mesothorax 

 very slightly exceeding the median femora in length, with an extremely 

 faint median, and intimations of lateral, carinse. Metathorax falling 

 short of the meso thoracic length by nearly that of the prothorax. 



Fig. 7. — Leptynia senex n. sp. Ventral outline of apex of 

 abdomen ( $ ). (X 6.) 



carinse as on the mesothorax; median segment strongly transverse 

 poorly delimited cephalad. Abdomen becoming progressively quinque- 

 carinate caudad ; segments, except proximal and distal ones, decidedly 

 longitudinal; anal segment very slightly longer than the preceding 

 abdominal segment, tectate dorsad, median carina sharp, caudal 

 margin produced and moderately V-emarginate mesad, exposing the 

 extreme apex of the supra-anal plate; cerci slightly more than half 

 the greatest length of the anal segment, compressed, subequal, 

 ventral margin straight, dorsal margin arcuate distad, the apex being 

 ventrad, lateral face excavate and medio-carinate ; operculum lanceo- 

 late, reaching to the middle of the anal segment, non-carinate mesad, 

 but with distinct sinuate lateral carinse in the proximal two-thirds; 

 seventh ventral abdominal segment with prominent, paired, parallel 

 median carinas, distal margin rectangulate. Cephalic femora dis- 

 tinctly exceeding the head, pro- and mesothorax in length; tibiae 

 slightly longer than the femora. Median femora slightly shorter 

 than the mesothorax, at the proximal third with a low rounded or 

 biundulate lobe on each ventral margin, carinas unarmed ; tibiae sub- 

 equal to the femora. Caudal femora equal to the length of the pro- 

 and mesothorax, unarmed and non-lobate; tibiae slightly exceeding 

 the femoral length. 



General color clove-brown, the thoracic tubercles, scattered spots 

 on the dorsum of the head and abdomen and clouding of apex of latter 

 hoary white. Limbs finely grizzled with whitish, the vicinity of the 

 cephalic flexure of the cephalic femora dull ochraceous. 




334 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



Measurements. 



Length of body, 64.0 mm 



Length of prothor ax, 2.8 



Length of mesothorax, 13.0 



Length of metathorax (incl. med. segm.), 11.0 



Length of cephalic femur, ' . . . .20.5 



Length of median femur, ~ . 12.0 



Length of caudal femur, 16.0 



The t3^e is unique. 



FHTHOA Kai-sch. 

 Phthoa occidentalis n. sp. 



Type: ? ; Massamedes Province, Angola. [Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 

 type No. 5,173.] 



Differing from P. prolixa Karsch from Mpwapwa, German East 

 Africa, the type and only other species in the genus, in the greater size 

 and triangularly emarginate seventh ventral abdominal segment, 

 which latter is supplied laterad with decidedly acute triangular lobes, 

 instead of being shallowly arcuate emarginate as in prolixa. 



Size rather large; form moderately elongate; surface smooth, an 

 indistinct medio-longitudinal carina present. Head about twice as 

 long as the prothorax, distinctly narrowing caudad ; interocular region 

 slightly inflated; occipital margin moderately impressed mesad; 

 eyes subglobose, hardly prominent; antennae less than one-third the 



Fig. 8. — Phthoa occidentalis n. sp. Lateral view of apex of 

 abdomen ($). (X 5.) 



Fig. 9. — Phthoa occidentalis n. sp. Ventral Adew of apex of 

 abdomen (?). (X 5.) 



length of the cephalic femora, seventeen- to eighteen-jointed. Pro- 

 thorax with the dorso-lateral margins sinuate and converging cephalad, 

 cephalic margin arcuato-emarginate, caudal margin emarginato- 

 truncate. Mesothorax two-thirds the length of the cephalic femora. 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA, 335 



Metathorax equal to three-fourths the mesothoracic length; median 

 segment transverse, cephalic margin arcuate. Abdomen with the 

 median segments very strongly longitudinal; anal segment but 

 slightly longer than the preceding abdominal segment, meso-carinate, 

 caudal margin acute- angulate; supra-anal plate small, tapering 

 subdigitiform, horizontal; cerci about twice the length of the anal 

 segment, subcompressed, terete; operculum elongate lanceolate, 

 falling but little short of the tips of the cerci, carinate proximo-laterad ; 

 seventh ventral abdominal segment slightly produced distad into a 

 pair of divergent acute triangular lobes, the interspace being V-shaped 

 emarginate, surface of segment not carinate mesad. Cephalic femora 

 slightly exceeding the mesothoracic and twice the prothoracic length; 

 tibiae exceeding the femora by about the prothoracic length. Median 

 femora unarmed and non-lobate, nearly equal to the pro- and rneso" 

 thoracic length; tibiae slightly exceeding the femora. Caudal femora 

 very slightly shorter than the median pair ; tibiae exceeding the femora 

 by more than the prothoracic length. 



Natural color destroyed by immersion in spirits. Present coloration 

 pale yellowish. 



Measurements. 



Length of body, 79 . mm. 



Length of prothorax, 2.5 " 



Length of mesothor ax, 16.0 " 



Length of metathorax (incl. med. segm.), 12.5 " 



Length of cephalic femur, 22.2 " 



Length of median femur, 18.5 " 



Length of caudal femur, 18.2 " 



Length of operculum, 9.8 " 



The type is the only representative of the species seen by us, 



PHIBALOSOMIN^. 



ISCHNOPODA Grandidier. 



Ischnopoda reyi Grandidier. ' 



1869. Ischnopoda reyi Grandidier, Revue et Magasin de Zoolog., 2me ser,, 

 XXI, p. 292. [Quilimane, Portuguese East Africa,] 



German East Africa. Two females. 




336 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



FAUNA OF THE GATUN FOEMATION, ISTHMUS OF PANAMA. 

 BY AMOS P. BROWN AND HENRY A. PILSBRY. 



The collection of fossils studied in this paper was made by one of us 

 (Brown) during two visits to the Isthmus in April and in August, 1910. 

 With the exception of a tooth of a shark^ and a few specimens of 

 Oliva from Monkey Hill all come from the excavations for the locks 

 at Gatun. The Oliva taken at Monkey Hill is the same species found 

 plentifully at the Gatun excavation. The specimens were collected 

 from dumps and fills along the railway as well as from the dumps in 

 the vicinity of Gatun. 



A rapid reconnaissance of the stratigraphy along the line of the railway 

 from Colon to Empire and along the canal from Colon to Gatun seemed 

 to indicate that the formations, from the highest exposures at Monkey 

 Hill (Mount Hope) to the lowest that contain molluscan remains at 

 Bohio, form one stratigraphic unit, the base of which is to be found 

 at Bohio and the top at Monkey Hill. This was the impression formed 

 by a study of the stratigraphy on the ground. As shown below, the 

 study of the fossils collected, and a survey of the literature on the 

 Isthmian formations, bears out his impression formed in the field. 

 The thickness of this Gatun formation is probably not much above 

 400 feet, judging from exposures and borings at Gatun. It is dredged 

 from the canal at more than four miles north of Gatun, being here 

 encountered at 18 feet below water level. 



If this is correct that the moUusk-bearing formations from Bohio 

 to the sea at Colon form one stratigraphic unit (and they appear to be 

 one faunal unit), the Gatun Formation will include beds that have been 

 variously called Bohio, Gatun, Monkey Hill, Culebra and Vamos- 

 Vamos. 



The recognition of Eocene in the Isthmian section rests upon fossils 

 from the "Vamos a Vamos or Gatun beds" collected by Robert T. 

 Hill and examined by Dr. Wm. H. Dall. These fossils occur as 

 " pseudomorphs in calcite in a tough matrix, and difficult to extract 

 in good condition." The following Eocene (Claiborne) species were 

 " noted on a rapid examination "^ by Dr. Dall : 



' Carcharias megalodon Ag. 



* Bull. Mus. Comp. Zool., vol. 28, p. 273. The genera noted without specific 

 identifications are such as are found in the Oligocene beds. 




h 



1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 337 



Lupia perovata Conrad. 



Solarium alveatum Conrad. 



Natica eminula Conrad. 



To which the following were subsequently added : 



Corhula alabamiensis Lea. 



Corbula gregorioi Cossmann. 



The shell identified as Lupia perovata may turn out to b3 " Amaura" 

 guppyi Gabb, of the Santo DomiDgo Oligocene, a species which resem- 

 bles the Eocene form so closely that very well-preserved examples 

 are necessary for their discrimination. 



The genus Glyptostyla, represented by G. panamensis Dall, is known 

 elsewhere only from the Upper Tejon Eocene of California, where a 

 species very distinct from the Vamos a Vamos form occurs. 



The condition of the calcite pseudomorphs at Gatun is often not 

 favorable for exact determination, and it seems possible that some of 

 the identifications with Claibornian species might be modified by the 

 study of perfect examples.^ The presence of a few Claibornian species 

 belonging to genera not characteristically Eocene in a fauna pre- 

 dominantly Oligocene does not, it seems to us, justify a reference of 

 the formation to the Eocene. Until a longer list of Eocene species 

 including some characteristic forms is made known, we are disposed 

 to regard all of the known tertiary beds of the Canal Zone carrying 

 moUuscan fossils as Oligocene and as constituting one formation. 

 The exact position of the Gatun Formation among Antillean Oligocene 

 formations cannot be fixed without a more complete list of the contained 

 fossils than we now possess, but its approximate place is clear. As 

 Dall has shown, the Jamaican (Bowden) marl, by the absence of 

 Orthaulax and the greater proportion of modern species, is probably 

 somewhat later than the Santo Domingo beds. The Gatun formation, 

 as now imperfectly known, has decidedly more in common with the 

 older and more remote Santo Domingan than with the later and 

 geographically nearer Bowdenian. 



It contains many species common to both beds, and a few show 

 greater affinity to Bowden forms. Some of the difference between 

 the Isthmian and Santo Domingo faunas is doubtless due to local 

 specific differentiation; possibly this factor may account for all the 

 differences; yet on the whole we conclude that the Gatun fauna is 

 slightly later than the Santo]Domingo and]earlier than the Bowden. 



' We express this possibility in view of the imperfection of the material and 

 with all respect for Dr. Ball's opinion, which is justly considered authoritative 

 in such matters. 




338 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



Gatun species identical with those of Santo Domingo 22 



Gatun species identical with those of Bowden 13 



(Eight of the species are common to the Santo Domingo and 



Bowden beds.) 

 Gatun species more closely allied to those of Santo Domingo and 



Bowden than to any other known forms 20 



Gatvm species identical with those of Chipola 4 



Gatun species identical with recent forms 6 



Gatun species as yet known only from that formation 67 



It will be noted that at least 40 per cent, of the 104 Gatun species 

 now known are either identical with, or very closely related to, Santo 

 Domingo forms. A considerable proportion of the remaining species 

 are certainly allied to those of Santo Domingo, but without exhaustive 

 studies of the groups, their nearest affinities cannot readily be deter- 

 mined. 



Of the 6 species identical with recent forms, 4 are Antillean, one 

 inhabits both coasts and one the Pacific coast only. It is obvious 

 that in the Antillean and Isthmian Oligocene the ancestral stocks 

 of a large part of the modern Antillean and Panamic faunas are present, 

 genera now characteristically Panamic being especially well-developed, 

 such as Cymia, Solenosteira, Strombina, Malea, Trachycardium of the 

 belcheri group, dementia, Acila, Tesseracme, Cadulus of the dentalinus 

 group, etc. None of them are deep-water forms, and all are absent 

 or rare in the curiously impoverished littoral Antillean fauna of the 

 present time.^ 



In the following list we have included all species reported from the 

 Gatun beds. Species marked with an asterisk (*) were not included 

 in the collections we have studied. With a few exceptions noted in 

 the text, the other species listed are in the collection of the Academy. 



Acknowledgments are due to Professor Wm. B. Scott and Mr. 

 Gilbert Van Ingen for the privilege of studying a small series of Gatun 

 specimens in the museum of Princeton University, collected in 1908 

 by Mr. Ward H. Farrington. We would also acknowledge the courtesj^ 

 of Dr. Wm. H. Dall, in giving access to material in the U. S. National 

 Museum. 



Genera reported by Toula and Hill without specific identifications 

 have not been inserted in the following list. 



^Hill's statement (Bull. Mus. Comp. Zool., vol. 28, p. 265) that Pacific forms 

 do not exist in the Antillean Oligocene is clearly at variance with the facts. 

 An important element in the littoral fauna of the Panamic province is directly- 

 traceable to Antillean Oligocene famias, as the above list demonstrates. 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 339 



AOTEONID^. 



*Ballina ohipolana Dall. 



Bullina (Abderospira) chipolana Dall, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XVIII, p. 32. 

 Chipola beds, Chipola River, Florida; near Gatun, Rowell (Dall). 



SOAPHANDRID^. 

 ♦Volvulella sp. undet. 



Bulla (Volvula) cf. oxytata Bush, Toula, Jahrbuch der Kaiserlich-Konig- 

 lichen Geologischen Reichsanstalt, LVIII, 1908 (April 15, 1909), p. 709, 

 PI. 28, fig. 4. 



Gatun. 



TERBBRID.^. 

 Terebra subsulcifera n. sp. PI. XXII, fig. 7. 



The shell is slender, the diameter contained about Ih times in the 

 length, composed of about 15 whorls in a length of 31 mm. Sculpture : 

 A prominent band below the suture, fully one-third the width of the 

 whorl; below it, and separated by a sulcus, another band half as wide, 

 below which there are weak, nearly obsolete spiral striae; the whole 

 crossed by rather sharp vertical riblets narrower than their intervals. 

 These are very slightly oblique on the upper band, vertical on the 

 sunken lower part of the whorl. The riblets gradually weaken below 

 the middle of the last whorl, leaving the base smooth. The columella 

 is strongly biplicate, the folds subobsolete at the aperture. 



Length 31, diam. 7 mm. 



This species has much in common with T. haitensis Dall, but it 

 differs by having two columellar folds among other minor differences. 

 A comparison kindly made by Dr. Dall shows them to be distmct. 

 T. sidcifera Sowerby, of the Santo Dommgo Oligocene, is described 

 as having a third subobsolete spiral sulcus, while the species under 

 consideration has only two sulci. 



Terebra gatunensis Toula. PI. XXII, fig. 2 ( x 214)- 



Terebra (Oxymeria) gatunensis Toula, Jahrb., p. 705, PI. 25, fig. 14. 

 This fine species reaches a length of 50 to 60 mm. The subsutural 

 band is about one-fourth the width of the whorl, with sculpture of 

 straight, vertical ribs, and is followed by a rather wide furrow, below 

 which there are seven rounded spiral cords, the upper one larger. 

 Fine, slightly bent, longitudinal ribs run from suture to suture over 

 cords and intervals, forming rounded knots at the intersections. 

 These ribs are about twice as far apart as the spiral cords on the upper 

 whorls, but on the later ones the cords and ribs are about equally 

 spaced. On the last whorl the siphonal fasciole is marked with rude 




340 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



growth-lines and lamellae and bounded by a keel. Aperture narrow 

 and long. The specimen figured, broken at both ends, is 51 mm. long, 

 composed of 13 whorls. Toula's description and figure were from a 

 young shell. 



Fig. 2 is typical. Six specimens seen. We doubt whether the 

 following form is specifically distinct, so widely it varies in sculpture. 

 The recent T. panamensis Dall has some resemblance to this species. 

 A complete specimen measures, length 52, diam. 10.5 mm. 



Terebra wolfgangi Toula. PI. XXII, figs. 1, 3-6 ( x 2}Q. 



Terebra (Oxymeria) wolfgangi Toula, Jahrb., p. 705, PI. 28, fig. 7. 



Very closely related to T. gatunensis, perhaps only a form of that 

 species, from which it differs by having several weak spirals on the 

 sutural band, running over ribs and intervals, and in the smaller 

 number of spiral cords below the band, there being five, equally spaced, 

 on the penultimate whorl, four on the median and upper whorls. 

 The rate of increase of the whorls is about the same as in T. gatunensis. 

 Judging from a number of incomplete shells, an adult of 50 mm. length 

 should have about 20 whorls, of which fully 3 form a narrow, high, 

 smooth embryonic shell. 



This species is somewhat related to the Pliocene and recent T. 

 dislocata Say, and especially to the preceding species. It varies 

 widely in sculpture, as follows : 



1. Sutural band differentiated on the early whorls, but on the last 

 3 or 4 not set off from the other spirals by a deeper furrow; 4 spiral 

 cords as wide as their intervals below it; vertical sculpture fine and 

 low on the later whorls, weak in the intervals of the spirals. One 

 specimen (PI. 22, fig. 1). 



2. Typical form, described above, 2 specimens. 



3. Sutural band divided by one shallow sulcus in the intercostal 

 spaces only. Spiral cords unequal, three in a gi'oup, followed by two 

 separated by wider spaces. Only 12 spirals on the last whorl below 

 the band. One specimen (figs. 3, 4). 



4. Sutural band with several spiral striae indenting the ribs and 

 intervals. Spiral cords unequally spaced. Two specimens (figs. 5, 6). 



Terebra gaasapata n. sp. PI. XXII, figs. 8, 9. 



A small, slowly tapering species, with very slightly convex whorls 

 and well- impressed, undulating suture. Sutural band limited by a 

 deep, narrow sulcus and, like the rest of the whorl, sculptured with 

 close, unequal, spiral threads. There are three threads upon the band, 

 eight below it. There are fourteen high, rather narrow, longitudinal 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 341 



ribs on each whorl, the threads obsolete on their summits. The 

 imperfect shell figured measures, length 9, diam. 2.8 mm., of 6^ whorls. 



CONIDiE. 

 Conus concavitectum n. sp. PI. xxill, flgs. 5, 6. 



A cone about twice as long as wide. Spire very concavely conic or 

 mucronate, the inner whorls forming a very steep, acute cone, its 

 whorls carmate below the middle of each, sloping and usually marked 

 with a faint impressed spiral line or two above the carina, or having 

 several striae on the lower part of the slope, where the carma lies in 

 the suture. The last 3 or 4 whorls revolve nearly in a plane, are 

 markedly concave, with the outer edge raised in an erect flange or 

 keel, the concavity marked with one or several spiral threads and 

 distinct, arched growth-striae. Last whorl slightly convex below the 

 shoulder-angle, straight and slender below, marked below the middle 

 with unequal, low spirals, most of them beaded. Length 37.5, diam. 

 19 mm. Incomplete adult shells are much larger, diam. 28 mm., 

 with about 15 whorls. 



This species differs from C. domingensis Gabb by having the outer 

 edge of the later whorls raised in a flange and by the smooth, not 

 tuberculate early whorls. None of the larger specimens is complete. 



Conus haytensis Sowb. 



Conus haytensis Sowb., Journ. Geol. Soc. Lond., VI, p. 44. 

 A perfect, but small specimen, length 26 mm., agrees with Santo 

 Domingo examples. 



Conus domingensis Sowerby(?). 



C. domingensis Sowb., Journ. Geol. Soc. Lond., VI, p. 45. 

 A fragment, the spire only, agrees well with this species, so far as it 

 goes. 



Conus consobrinus Sowb. 



Conus consobrinus Sowb., Journ. Geol. Soc. Lond., VI, p. 45. 

 A Gatun specimen is about 30 mm. long, of the highly sculptured 

 typical form. 



Conus granozonatus Guppy. 



C. granozonatus Guppv, Quart. Journ. Geol. Soc. Lond., XXII, p. 287, PI. 16 , 



fig. 5. 

 C. gracilissimus Guppy, t. c, p. 288, PI. 16, fig. 4. 



Not uncommon at Gatun. While closely related to C. consobrinus ^ 

 this seems to be a distinct species. In our series from Bowden the 

 C. gracilissimus does not seem distmguishable specifically. 




342 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [April, 



Couus semulator n. sp. PI. XXIII, fig. 9. 



A cone related to alveatus Conr. and imitator, differing from both in 

 the very concavely conic spire. Whorls slightly concave above, with 

 about 3 spiral striae; not tuberculate, last whorl decidedly convex 

 below the shoulder, its lower half spirally striate, the striae unequal, 

 not beaded. The outer lip is much less retracted above than in 

 alveatus. 



Length 22,5, diam. 12.8 mm. ; whorls about 9. 



The single specimen is a pseudomorph in calcite. It differs from 

 C. domingensis by the non- tuber cu late early whorls. 

 Conus imitator n. sp. PI. XXIII, fig. 4. 



A cone about twice as long as wide, the spire forming about one- 

 fourth of the length. The spire is concave and acuminate in the upper 

 third, the first 3 whorls smooth, the next 4 or 5 whorls having a smooth 

 carina projecting above the suture, the first 2^ of them tuberculate, 

 after which the carina is smooth ; following whorls less steeply sloping, 

 very slightly concave, marked with fine growth-lines and a few weak 

 spiral striae, slightly prominent at the sutures. Last whorl acutely 

 carinate, the slope below the angle almost straight, but just perceptibly 

 convex in the upper, concave in the lower half, which is sculptured 

 with about 16 rather strong spiral cords. The outer lip arches 

 strongly forward and is deeply retracted at the upper end. 



Length 35, diam. 17 mm., whorls 12. 



This small, inornate cone is probably a descendant of C. alveatus 

 Conr. of the Vicksburgian, but in that species the spire is more strongly 

 striate, more whorls are tuberculate, and the keel edging the whorls 

 is directed upward, whilst in C. imitator it is rather outward. 



It is rather abundant at Gatun. Also occurs in Santo Domingo. 



Conus gaza Johnson and Pilsbry, n. sp. PI. XXIII, figs. 2, 3. 



"The shell is biconic, diameter over half the length, the spire is 

 nearly one-third the total length, concavely conic, attenuate towards 

 the apex. Post-embryonic whorls about 9, slightly concave, the lower 

 edge of each angular, projecting a little; the angle tuberculate in the 

 first post-embryonic whorl, smooth in the rest; sculptured with deeply 

 arcuate, narrow, low and widely spaced riblets and striae; no spiral 

 striae. Last whorl acutely angular at the shoulder, barely convex 

 below the angle, the outline becoming concave in the lower part; 

 sculptured with 20-22 strong, smooth, flattened spiral cords, separated 

 by wider intervals which are sharply striated by growth-striae. Aper- 

 ture very narrow. 



"Length 24, diam. 13.1 mm." (Johnson and Pilsbry). 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 343 



Oligocene of Santo Domingo, Gabb. Also of Gatun, A. P. B. 



This beautiful cone bears some resemblance to the longer C. cru- 

 zianus Dall from Santa Cruz, the horizon of which is uncertain. 



The single specimen from Gatun has fully two tuberculate post- 

 embryonic whorls. In the Santo Domingo types this stage is shorter, 

 and generally inconspicuous or lost by erosion. We have quoted the 

 description from Pilsbry and Johnson's MS. work on the Santo Domingo 

 Oligocene. The figures represent the type specimens from the same 

 place. 



Conus molis n. sp. PI. XXIII, fig. 1. 



A large, ponderous cone resembling C. promethus in figure, the ratio 

 of diameter to length as 1 : 1.7. 



Spire but little raised except at the center, where the early whorls 

 project in a short acute cone. Whorls about 13, the earlier 6 flat, 

 later whorls concave, spirally striate with about 5 striae between the 

 seamlike sutural margins; crossed by weak growth-lines, which are 

 not very deeply arcuate. The shoulder of the last whorl is subacute. 

 Side strongly convex below the angle, then straight, finely striate 

 spirally throughout, the lower third coarsely striate. Aperture as 

 in C. haytensis Sowb. 



Length 124, diam. 71.2 mm. 



This cone resembles C. haytensis Sowb. of Santo Domingo, but 

 differs by being longer in proportion to its width, in the plain, not 

 coronated early whorls, which form a smaller mucro, the more acute 

 shoulder, below which the side is more convex, more distinctly striated; 

 the striae at the base are more nearly equal and closer, not widely 

 spaced with smaller striae in the intervals, as they are in haytensis. 



The type is No. 5,502 coll. Princeton University, collected by 

 Ward H. Farrington, 1908. 



This species is also represented by several internal casts in the 

 Princeton and Academy Gatun collections, and there is a fine example 

 in the U. S. National Museum from Monkey Hill, near Colon. Toula 

 also mentions a cast, probably referable to the same species (Jahrb., p. 



754). 



TURRITID^ (PliBUROTOMIDiE). 

 Flenrotoma albida Perry. 



The specimens agree well with those of the Bowden beds. It is a 

 conservative species, ranging from Eocene to recent. 




344 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



Drillia gatunensis Toula. 



D. gatunensis Toula, Jahrb., p. 707, PI. 25, fig. 16. 



Related to D. indentata J. and P., of the Santo Domingo Oligocene, 

 but it differs by having more numerous spirals. In this feature there 

 is rather wide variation, many specimens having but four wider spiral 

 cords on the whorls of the spire below the sutural fascicle. It attains 

 a length of 40 mm. 



Drillia isthmica n. sp. PI. XXIII, figs. 10, IL 



A small species, related to D. parkeri Gabb of the Santo Domingo 

 Oligocene, 2^ or 3 smooth whorls compose the embryonic shell, which 

 is somewhat worn. Succeeding whorls have a distinct, narrow, 

 convex, sutural fasciole, undulating in conformity with the suture, 

 and rather weakly plicate, the plicae perceptibly retractive, unevenly 

 developed. Below the fasciole there are broad folds, subacute at 

 their summits. On the slopes of the folds there are some protractive 

 wrinkles, like ripples upon waves. There is an interrupted spiral 

 groove midway between sutures, appearing as a series of short strokes 

 in the troughs of the waves only. The aperture is imperfect in the 

 type specimens. There is a small callous nodule on the left side of 

 the posterior sinus. 



Length 13 mm., 11 whorls. 



The absence of spiral striation makes this species quite distinct 

 from others of the Isthmian beds. 



Drillia fusinus n. sp. PI. XXIII, fig. 7. 



The shell is fusiform, widest at the middle, like a slender Fusinus 

 (Fusus). Spire attenuated towards the small, obtuse apex. The 

 first half whorl is rounded, uptilted; then an acute carina appears at 

 the lower third, at the end of the first whorl a second small cord appears 

 above the suture. Beginning with the third whorl a small thread 

 appears on the upper side of the main carina, and low longitudinal 

 folds begin. On subsequent whorls these folds continue to the penulti- 

 mate. They are low, very wide and on the last whorl subobsolete. 

 The penultimate whorl has four subacute main spirals, one subsutural, 

 two peripheral and one suprasutural ; the intervals bearing smaller 

 spiral threads and striae. The last whorl has many spiral cords and 

 threads. Whorls 12, concave above, the last one swollen in the middle, 

 concave and extended in a long, straight anterior canal. Aperture 

 narrow, small, less than half as long as the anterior canal, not deeply 

 sinuated above. 



Length 40, diam. 12 mm. 




\ 



1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 345 



This appears to be a rather abundant shell at Gatun, but only one 

 out of ten specimens retains the long anterior canal entire. It is 

 extremely like Fusinus in contour, and is more nearly related to 

 D. jusijormis than to other species known to us. 

 Drillia zooki n. sp. PI. XXIII, fig. 8. 



A species very closely related to D. jusijormis Gabb, of the Santo 

 Domingan Oligocene, but differing as follows : The anterior canal is 

 much shorter. There is no cord at the lower edge of the sutural 

 fasciole, above the supraperipheral cord. There are eleven somewhat 

 protractive longitvidinal folds on the last whorl, which are narrower 

 than in D. jusijormis. In other respects the two species seem to be 

 substantially alike. 



Length of last 4 whorls 20.5, diam. 8.5 mm. 



Only imperfect specimens were collected. Named for Mr. E. Zook, 

 of the Panama R. R. 



Drillia consors (Sowerby). 



Pleurotoma consors Sowb., Journ. Geol. Soc. Lond., VI, p. 50. 

 The Gatun specimens seem to have a slightly longer anterior canal 

 than those from Santo Domingo. 



*Pleurotoma gertrudis Toula. 



Pleurotoma (Genota) gertrudis Toula, Jahrb., p. 709, fig. 9. 



Cythara heptagona (Gabb). 



Mangelia heptagona Gabb, Geol. Santo Domingo, p. 211. 



One typical specimen. 



OANOELLARIID^. 

 Cancellaria dariena Toula. PI. XXIV, figs. 3, 4. 



C. dariena Toula, Jahrb., p. 703, PI. 25, fig. 13; PI. 28, fig. 2. 



This species resembles C. reticulata very closely, yet differs by having 

 a much larger embryonic shell which is also more globose, of three 

 whorls. There are about 5^ post-embryonic sculptured whorls, 

 while in reticulata there is at least one whorl more in shells of the same 

 size. The first sculptured whorl in C. dariena has five spiral cords and 

 10 or 11 massive longitudinal folds. On the last whorl there are usually 

 some smaller threads in the intervals between the principal spirals, 

 above the periphery. The aperture is very much like that of C. reticu- 

 lata except that a thin callus spreads far forward over the whorl to 

 the middle of its ventral face. 



Length 30, diam. 16.5 mm. 



A form which may be called Cancellaria dariena trachyostraca, 

 23 




346 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



n. subsp. (PI. 24, figs. 1,2), has the same comparatively large embryo, 

 but the first sculptured whorl has about 16 more numerous, much 

 narrower ribs. On the last whorl the spirals are equal, without spiral 

 threads in the intervals. The callus does not extend forward from the 

 aperture quite so extensively. 



Length 30, diam. 18 mm. 



Cancellaria harretti Guppy, which is very similar in appearance, has 

 more spiral cords and more lirae within the outer lip. 

 Cancellaria decaptyx n. sp. pi. XXIV, figs. 5, 6. 



A small, slender species, composed of 7 whorls in a length of 11 mm. 

 The first 2^ whorls form a smooth naticoid embryonic shell; then 

 three spiral cords appear, and soon after coarse, rounded longitudinal 

 ribs. The spirals increase rapidly in number on succeeding whorls. 

 They pass over the ribs, upon the crests of which they are slightly 

 strengthened. The ribs are not quite as wide as their intervals. 

 On the last whorl there are ten, on the preceding nine ribs. Whorls 

 strongly convex. The aperture is small. Columella with two moderate, 

 oblique folds, which are somewhat receding, being only weakly visible 

 in a front view. 



Length 11, diam. 5 mm. 



We find no closely related species in the American tertiary. 



MITRID^. 

 Mitra longa Gabb. PI. XXIV, fig. 11. 



M. longa Gabb, Geol. of Santo Domingo, p. 219. 



The specimens agree well with Gabb's types of this species. As it 

 has not been illustrated, we figure one of the Gatun specimens. It 

 measures, length 37, diam. 9.1 mm. 

 Mitra dariensis n. sp. PI. XXLV, tig. 9. 



A species closely related to M. longa, but shorter, the diameter 

 contained about three times in the length. The apex is lost, 6^ whorls 

 remaining. These are rather convex, with sculpture of four strong 

 equal spiral ridges, and a smaller thread just below the suture; and 

 on the last three whorls another thread appears between the first and 

 second of the spiral cords. The last whorl has twelve major spirals, 

 and about six small, subequal spirals on the siphonal fasciole. The 

 interstices are sculptured with rather close, sharp longitudinal threads, 

 and in each a spiral sunken line revolves. The aperture is narrow. 

 Columella with four strongly oblique folds, the lowest one very small, 

 upper fold much the strongest. 



Length 22, diam. 7 mm. (apex wanting). 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 347 



This species differs from M. longa chiefly by the shorter, less con- 

 tracted basal portion of the last whorl and the somewhat different 

 sculpture of the interstices between the smooth spiral ribs. 



Mitra sp. undet. PI. XXIV, flgs. 7, 8. 



The internal cast of a large Mitre having three columellar plaits, the 

 median one strongest, and with unusually short whorls, contained in 

 the Princeton collection, No. 5,515, is figured (fig. 8). Length of the 

 fragment, which comprises nearly 2 whorls, is 46.5 mm, 



A short piece of the columella of what we take to be the same species, 

 was taken by one of us (fig. 7). It shows three sharp plaits, the middle 

 one largest, and on the wall above the upper plait there are several 

 spiral threads. 



This species is distinct from any known Santo Domingan Mitra. 



MARO-INELLID.^. 



Marginella gatunensis n. sp. PI. xxiv, fig. lO. 



A rather small oblong shell, widest at the upper third of the length, 

 the diameter contained about 1.8 times in the length. The spire is 

 conic, short, and so enveloped in callus that the sutures are obliterated. 

 The outer lip is rather broad, thickened outside, incurved, and delicately 

 denticulate within. The nearly straight narrow aperture is rather 

 abruptly but slightly dilated near the lower end. The columella bears 

 four folds, the lower two or three a little flattened towards the outer 

 ends. Upper half of the columellar wall is somewhat calloused, but 

 thin at the outer edge. 



Length 11.5, diam. 6.25 mm. (type). 

 '' 8.5, " 4.8 



This species is clearly distinct from all described from the American 

 Oligocene. It has some resemblance to M, limonensis Dail, of the 

 Costa Rican Miocene ( ?) , but that is more than double the size of the 

 largest M. gatunensis seen, and is relatively narrower. 



Marginella leander n. sp. pi. XXIV, fig. 13. 



The shell is long and narrow, the diameter not quite half the length ; 

 approaching a cylindric contour, but tapering a little from the upper 

 fourth to the base; the spire a very short, wide cone, obtuse and 

 rounded at the summit. The aperture is straight, very narrow in the 

 upper moiety, the lower third decidedly wider. Outer lip nearly 

 straight, with narrow, rounded face, thickened externally, a little 

 inflexed in the middle. Columella bearing four rather small folds, 

 which run outward upon the ventral face of the shell. There is a 




348 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April,, 



low callus upon the columellar wall above. The anterior notch is 

 rather wide and shallow. 



Length 9.0, diam. 4.2 mm. (type). 

 " 8.6, " 4.1 " 



Chiefly notable for its narrow shape and the long, emerging colu- 

 mellar folds. Named for the Rev. Leander T. Chamberlain. 

 Marginella ooniformis Sowb. PI. XXIV, fig. 12. 



MargineUa coniformis Sowb., Journ. Geol. Soc. Lond., VI, p. 45 (Santo 

 Domingo). 



The specimens agree very closely with the small Bowden race of 

 this species, which has been very poorly figured by Guppy (Q. J. Geol. 

 Soc, XXII, PI. 17, fig. 2); but the Gatun shells are even smaller. 

 Specimens measure: 



Length 15.8, diam. 9.7 mm. 

 " 14.3, " 9.1 " 



M. ballista Dall is broader at the shoulder, but otherwise related. 



OLIVIP^. 



Oliva reticularis gatunensis Toula. 



Oliva gatunensis Toula, Jahrb., p. 702, PI. 25, fig. 12. 



Cf. Oliva Modes Dall, Trans. Wagner Inst. Sci., PI. 58, fig. 1. 



This abundant form is not really distinguishable from the living 

 0. reticularis, except by its smaller size, length 35 to 38 mm. 



FASCIOIiARIID-ffil. 



*61yptostyla panamensis Dall. 



Glyptostyla panamensis Dall., Trans. Wagner Inst. Sci., Ill, p. 233, PI. 13, 

 fig. 5. 



Not seen by us. Vamos-vamos Station, 19 kilom. from Colon. 

 The genus Glyptostyla is also known from the Martinez Eocene of 

 California, but the species of that bed, G. crassitesta (Gabb), is very 

 unlike the Isthmian form in sculpture, and cannot be considered 

 nearly related. 



Fasciolaria sp. undet. 



Internal casts of a species not unlike the Chipolan F. ramondi Maury 

 were taken at Gatun. 



BUOOINID^. 

 SoleliOBteira dalli n. sp. PI. XXIV, fig. 14. 



The shell is biconic, solid and thick. Spire conic, acuminate when 

 perfect, with about 2^ smooth embryonic whorls, the following whorls 

 very convex, with sculpture of massive longitudinal folds not quite 

 as wide as the intervals, and sharp spiral cords and threads passing 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 349 



over folds and intervals. On the last whorl there are 8 or 9 short, 

 high folds, narrower than the intervals, and somewhat pointed at the 

 shoulder, and sharp spiral cords, the concave intervals of which bear 

 several unequal spiral threads. There are 16 or 17 major spirals between 

 the suture and the basal point of the outer lip, and 5 or 6 more small 

 ones on the convex basal fasciole. The whole surface between the 

 spirals is marked with fine growth striae. The last whorl is deeply- 

 concave below, expanded around the umbilicus, which is deep and 

 funnel-shaped. Aperture as in the type of the genus, except that there 

 is no posterior channel, merely an angle. Outer lip deeply sulcate 

 within, with crenulate edge. Columella nearly straight. Parietal 

 callus thin, with raised edge and one or two small lirae near the pos- 

 terior angle of the aperture. 



Length 41, diam. 25 mm. 



This fine species bears the name of Dr. William H. Dall, whose 

 "Tertiary MoUusks of Florida" is the greatest classic of the American 

 Neocene. 



It is evidently close to the recent S. anomala (Reeve), the type of 

 Solenosteira, but differs by the greater number of spiral cords and the 

 absence of an expansion or incipient channel at the posterior angle of 

 the aperture. We know S. anomala only by Reeve's too brief account. 

 It is probably a species of the Panamic region, S. pallida (Brod.), 

 which Try on considers identical with anomala, has more folds, 10 or 11 

 on the last whorl in specimens examined, and they are obtuse, not 

 pointed as in S. dalli; the spiral cords are much less prominent, their 

 intervals nearly flat instead of concave, and bear finer, less unequal 

 threads; moreover, there is a well-marked posterior apertural sinus in 

 all of the specimens examined, while in S. dalli there is none. 



Solenosteira elegans Dall (Bull. Mus. Comp. Zool., XLIII, p. 300) 

 from the Gulf of Panama, is a more compact shell than S. dalli, with 

 narrower, longer ribs. S. vaughani Dall, from the Floridian Miocene, 

 is also related. The last surviving Solenosteira in Antillean waters 

 was S. mengeana Dall, from the Caloosahatchie Pliocene. 

 Phos gatunensis Toula. PI. XXV, figs. 1, 2. 



Phos gatunensis Toula, Jahrb., p. 701, PI. 28, fig. 6; PI. 25, fig. 11. 



Toula' s specimens of this species were poor, so that further descrip- 

 tive notes and figures may be useful. It differs from Phos metuloides 

 Dall, from the Oligocene of Monkey Hill, by having rather narrow and 

 sharp spirals, not in the least straplike at any stage of growth, and 

 there are not so many longitudinal ribs. Phos gabhi Dall, from the 

 Oligocene of Santo Domingo and Jamaica, is very closely related to 




350 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



P. gatunensis, but in gahbi the aperture is shorter and wider, in conse- 

 quence of the more swollen last whorl. 



The embryonic shell consists of two smooth, rounded whorls; then 

 narrow, widely spaced protractive riblets, and a spiral carina at the 

 Ipwer third, appear, for a half-whorl, giving place then to rounded 

 vertical ribs about equal to their intervals, and spiral cords passing 

 over ribs and intervals, the spaces between them spirally striate. On 

 the last whorl there are 13 narrow spiral cords above the siphonal 

 fasciole, which is bounded above by an acute ridge. The cords are 

 enlarged where they pass over the longitudinal ribs, and m each 

 interval there are several spiral striae except in the subperipheral region, 

 where each interval has one spiral thread. On the convex siphonal 

 fasciole there are 4 to 6 small cords. Adult shells have 19 to 25 

 longitudinal ribs on the last whorl. On the precedmg whorl the 

 number is diminished by about a fourth. There is no varix behind 

 the outer lip, but the ribs become obsolete there in fully adult shells. 

 The aperture is narrow and long, the outer lip strongly Urate within. 

 The columella bears, at the origin of the anterior canal, a strong, obtuse, 

 spirally entering plait, which ascends the internal column. 



Length 32^, diam. 15 mm. 

 " 30, '' 14 " 

 " 25, " 12 '' 



There is rather wide variation in the number of longitudinal ribs, 

 while the number of major spirals remains very constant — thirteen 

 on the last whorl, the upper one being more or less obviously doubled. 

 Phos subsemicostatus n. sp. PI. XXV, fig. 3. 



This species is closely related to Phos semicostatus Gabb, of the 

 Santo Domingo beds. It differs by having slightly narrower more 

 numerous spiral threads, and by lacking small longitudinal riblets 

 between the rare, varix-like ribs of the later whorls. It is also larger. 



Length 42, diam. 19 mm.; 10 whorls. 



Further material may perhaps show this to be a subspecies of the 

 Santo Domingan form. Our type has lost a large part of the shell 

 from the last two whorls. 



Phos metuloides DalL 



Phos metuloides Ball, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XIX, p. 303, PI. 2S, fig. 15 

 (Ponton, Santo Domingo; Monkey Hill, Isthmus of Panama). 



Several young specimens from Gatun show the embryonic and early 



neanic whorls. There is an embryo of at least 3 smooth whorls; 



then appear about five spiral threads crossed by very slender, widely 



spaced, protractive ribs. These gradually change, in the first sculp- 




1911,] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. ^51 



tured whorl, to coarse, rounded, vertical ribs equal to their interstices. 

 These continue for about two whorls, after which the adult sculpture 

 of fine, close vertical riblets sets in, either abruptly or by a short but 

 gradual transition. 



Metula gabbi n. sp. PI. XXV, figs. 4, 8. 



This species is represented by three broken specimens, the spire, 

 beyond the penultimate whorl, being wanting. It is closely related 

 to Metula cancellata Gabb, from which it differs as follows. The 

 sculpture of narrow longitudinal folds and spiral cords is much coarser. 

 There are 40 to 43 spirals on the last whorl (counting the smooth ones 

 at the anterior end). In M. cancellata the upper two or three spirals 

 are separated by wider or deeper grooves than the rest, but in M. gabbi 

 this is not the case. The longitudinal folds on the last whorl of 

 M. gabbi are about twice the size of those of M. cancellata. On the 

 spire the spirals do not pass over the longitudinal folds in M. gabbi 

 as they do in M. cancellata. The apertures are alike in the two species. 

 In the largest Gatun specimen the last whorl, measured in front, is 

 20.5 mm. long. 



COLUMBELLID^. 

 Anaobis fugaz n. sp. PI. XXV, fig. 5. 



A species of the A. avara group, slender, with long, acuminate spire. 

 The first whorl is very minute; embryonic shell conic, composed of 

 3 or 3^ convex, smooth whorls, which taper more rapidly than the 

 following whorls. The next two whorls are smooth ; then longitudinal 

 rounded ribs gradually begin, increasing in size to the last whorl. 

 These ribs arch backward or are nearly straight, extend from suture 

 to suture and are a little wider than their intervals. On the last 

 whorl they weaken below the periphery. There are 3 to 3^ rather con- 

 vex sculptured whorls, separated by an impressed suture, below which 

 there is a narrow ledge or indistinct cord. The basal half of the last 

 whorl is coarsely Urate spirally, the spirals coarsest in the concavity 

 of the base. Above the periphery and on the spire, spirals are wanting 

 or sometimes barely traceable in places, but just behind the outer 

 lip they extend farther up than elsewhere. There is an indistinct 

 broad variceal thickening behind the outer lip. The small aperture 

 has several weak lip-teeth. 



Length 11, diam. 4.25 mm., length of aperture 5 mm.; whorls about 

 9. Ten ribs on the last whorl. 



Somewhat smaller specimens in the same lot have 13, and an imma- 

 ture shell as many as 15 ribs on the last whorl. This species is in or 




352 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



close to the ancestral stock of A. avara. Two Pliocene forms have 

 features possibly derived from this Oligocene form, combined with 

 various diverse characters : A. avara caloosaensis Dall, in the Floridian 

 Stage, is more robust than A. fugax, the number of sculptured whorls 

 is greater and the suture specially modified. A. camax Dall, from a 

 slightly later stage, and even more like A. fugax, differs by having 

 but "two smooth and eight reticulated whorls," and the spiral sculp- 

 ture is far more strongly developed. 



In both of the Pliocene species there has been acceleration of the 

 sculpture since the Oligocene form, A. fugax having about 5^ smooth 

 and 3 to 3^ sculptured whorls. In various other Pliocene and recent 

 forms of the same stock, however, there has been retardation of 

 longitudinal sculpture, which first appears on the last whorl. 



Anachis styliola Dall is a form superficially similar to A. fugax, but 

 unlike it in the important feature of having a large, bulbous embryonic 

 sheU. 

 ♦Strombina mira Dall. 



S. mira Dall, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XIX, p. 312, PI. 29, fig. 7. 



Oligocene marl, near Gatun (Rowell, Hill). 

 Strombina lessepsiana n. sp. PI. XXV, figs. 11, 12. 



A species closely related to S. cyphonotus and S. 'prisma, but more 

 slender than either; fusiform. Spire when perfect of fully 11 whorls, 

 the suture distinctly, though not conspicuously channelled, ascending 

 at the end less than in the other species. Last whorl subtriangular 

 in transverse section, having a strongly oblique node on the left side, 

 a low dorsal hump near the suture, and marked with several sharp 

 wrinkles, and behind the outer lip a strong varix preceded and followed 

 by a concavity. At the base there are strong spiral grooves, 11 to 

 15 in number. Under the lens very weak traces of spiral sculpture 

 may be seen on the almost smooth later whorls. Aperture as in /S. 

 prisma, but with the canal slightly longer. 



Length 27.0, diam. 10.0 mm. (apex entire). 

 " 22.2, " 9.2 '' (apex broken). 

 " 26.2, " 10.0 " 



Not uncommon at Gatun. It is even more slender than S. prism/i,^ 



' We introduce here descriptions of S. prisma and S. cyphonotus from Johnson 

 and PUsbry's report on Gabb's Santo Domingo fossils (not yet published), in 

 order to demonstrate the relationships of S. lessepsiana. 



" Strombina prisma P. and J., n. sp. PI. X^V, figs. 9, 10. 



"The shell resembles S. cyphonotus, but differs by being more fusiform, the 

 obliquely longitudinal hump or node on the left side is stronger, dorsal hiunp 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 353 



with alip-varixof the same type, but the dorsal hump is low and sharply 



plicate, as in S. cyphonotus. Some examples have several sharp, 



short folds below the suture in the space preceding the dorsal hump. 



The status of these Oligocene tricornute forms is not easy to decide. 



Our object now is merely to indicate the differential features of the 



several forms. 



MURIOID^. 

 Murez messorius Sow". 



The Gatun form agrees well with recent specimens. The species 

 has been found also in the Santo Domingo Oligocene, but reported 

 by Gabb as M. recurvirostris (Geol. Santo Domingo, p. 201). 

 Murez polynematicus n. sp. PI. XXVI, fig. 1. 



This form differs from the recent M. recurvirostris and the Oligocene 



much moie emphatic, high, less pHcate. On either side of this hump the surface 

 is more flattened, being especially flattened and sunken in the last third, between 

 the dorsal eminence and the terminal varix. The varix is high and rather narrow, 

 preceded by a concavity, but no ripples. Other features as in S. cyphonotus, 

 except that the anterior canal is decidedly longer ; lips white. 



"Length 26, diam. 10.4 mm. 

 " 29, " 12.2 " 

 " 23, " 10.2 " 



"This species was among the shells which Gabb had referred to Strombina 

 gradata. The longer canal, the narrow lip-varix and the high dorsal hump 

 readily distinguish it from S. cyphonotus" (Pilsbry and Johnson). 



" Strombina cyphonotus P. and j., u. sp. PI. XXV, figs. 6, 7. 



"Shell fusiform, solid, with rather slender, long spire, a little attenuated 

 above, elsewhere with straight, smooth outlines. The tip is broken in all speci- 

 mens seen, 7 + whorls remaining. These aie nearly flat, with the suture 

 impressed by reason of a narrow prominence of the upper edge of each whorl. 

 The penultimate whorl sometimes shows a few slight longitudinal wrinkles. 

 The last whorl is obtusely triangular in transverse section, having a low, oblique 

 hump on the left side of the ventral face, a dorsal hump near the suture sculptured 

 with several longitudinal ripples is preceded by a noticeable concavity, and a 

 massive varix behind the outer lip, rising from and merging gradually into the 

 general convexity of the back. A few ripples, distinct or faint, sculptme the 

 back of the varix. Anteriorly there are about 15 spiral grooves, the upper ones 

 coarse and deep, the lower fine and close. Elsewhere the surface is smooth. 

 The aperture is narrow, lips brown, the inner lip smooth, straight, elevated; the 

 callus within the outer lip bears about 9 small teeth. Anterior canal short and 

 slightly recurved. 



"Length 23.1, diam. 11 mm.; length of last whorl, from end of canal to 

 posterior end of the lip-varix 15 mm. 



"Other specimens of the type lot measure: 



"Length 21.8, diam. 10 mm. 

 " 23.1, " 10 " 

 " 21.5, " 11 " 



"Oligocene of Santo Domingo, W. M. Gabb. 



"This species was incorrectly identified by Gabb (Geology of Santo Domingo, 

 p. 221) with Columbella gradata Guppy, a conspicuously different Strombina of the 

 Bowden Oligocene. It is related to, and probably an ancestor of, the recent 

 West Coast Strombina dorsata (Sowerby), which differs by lacking ripples on the 

 humps, by its seamlike sutures, far weaker basal spirals, etc. 




354j PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



subspecies domingensis Gabb by having more numerous spiral threads 

 in the intervals of the major spirals — three or four in each interval. 

 There are six varices on the last one and a half whorls, none on the 

 earlier whorls. The varices are not very large, and not excavated 

 behind. A shoulder spine is present on the last two varices only, 

 and is short and conic. The three inter variceal spaces on the last 

 whorl bear three, two and one folds, respectively. These folds are 

 shorter and higher than in recurvirostris. Diameter 38 mm.; length 

 unknown, the anterior canal being broken. 



Murex (Phyllonotus) gatunensis. PL XXVI, fig. 2. 



The shell resembles M. spinulosa in general form. Embryonic 

 whorls unknown; subsequent whorls about 6, strongly convex, 

 subangular at the shoulder, the last contracted into a narrow but 

 short anterior canal. Sculpture : on the last whorl seven strong varices, 

 each with a short horizontal spine at the shoulder and about half as 

 wide as the intervals; sharp, narrow, unequal spiral ridges over both 

 varices and intervals. These ridges are unequally spaced, and the 

 concave interstices bear numerous weak spiral striae. On the penulti- 

 mate whorl, two ridges are visible below, and two or three above the 

 shoulder-angle. The aperture is triangular-ovate; outer lip has 11 or 

 12 short, acute teeth on the submarginal internal callus. 



Length about 32 or 33 mm. (early whorls wanting), diam. 21 mm. 



This species has much resemblance to Murex spinulosa Heilprin, but 

 it differs, among other characters, by wanting a basal series of spines. 



Typhis alatus Sowerby. 



Typhis alatus Sowerby, Journ. Geol. Soc. Lond., VI, p. 48, PI. 10, fig. 4. 



Similar to specimens from the Oligocene of Bowden and Santo 

 Domingo. Typhis martyria Dall is a recent survivor of the same group, 

 in the Pacific. 



A specimen was lost, which so far as we can remember was probably 

 Typhis ohesus Gabb. 



Typhis gabbi n. sp. PI. XXVI, fig. 6. 



The shell is fusiform, strong, the last whorl having a peculiar sculp- 

 ture, the surface shrivelled, wrinkled and pitted. The embryo, of 

 nearly two very convex smooth whorls, forms a short style or pillar. 

 Then the diameter enlarges, and a shoulder-angle appears on the 

 latter part of the third whorl. In the middle of the fourth whorl 

 varices and intervariceal tubes appear on the very prominent shoulder, 

 these structures gradually increasing in size to the last whorl, which 

 bears four varices. These are strong and heavy, rounded, somewhat 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, "355 



recurved above the shoulder, where there is a deep pit behind each 

 varix. The tubes are short, midway between the varices, and placed 

 upon low, short folds. The aperture is very small, oval, with a raised 

 rim. Anterior canal closed, bent to the right, having three projecting 

 angles on the left side. 



Length 14, diam. 7.3 mm. 



Based upon a single quite perfect individual. The sculpture is 

 very characteristic. 



STROMBID^. 

 StrombuB gatunensia Toula. PL xXVI/figs. 3, l, 5. 



S. gatunensis Toula, Jahrb., p. 698, PI. XXV, figs. 7. 8. 



This species resembles S. pugilis alatus Gmel. in having the last 

 whorl smooth except for rather weak spiral cords below the suture 

 and on the base, the shoulder being unarmed. It differs from alatus 

 by the neanic whorls, which in alatus are subangidar, with folds much 

 larger than m gatunensis, prominent at the shoulder, fade out above 

 and below. In both species the spire is strongly, evenly striate 

 spirally. In S. gatunensis the spire is concave-sided, attenuate and 

 lengthened, the whorls strongly convex, finely and closely plicate 

 longitudinally, the folds extending from suture to suture. On the 

 penultimate and next earlier whorls the folds become obsolete above, 

 remaining short, close nodes on the antepenultimate, larger, separated, 

 subacute tubercles on the penultimate whorj. The last whorl has an 

 obtusely angular shoulder. There are several coarse spiral strise 

 below the suture, and the lower part is spirally striate. It becomes 

 tumid towards the aperture. The outer lip is somewhat thickened, 

 has a very shallow notch near the lower end, and is weakly wrinkled 

 within, but smooth in the throat. 



In one specimen seen there are about two varices on each of the 

 whorls of the attenuated part of the spire. The other shells have none. 



Fig. 5. Length 45, diam. 28.5 mm. 



Fig. 4. "50 mm. 



In Strombus hifrons Sowb., of the Oligocene of Haiti and Jamaica, 

 the folds on the spire are coarser than in S. gatunensis; the tubercles 

 persist and are somewhat spiniform on the last whorl, where also the 

 spiral striation is much more strongly developed. 

 Strombus (1) sp. undet. PI. XXVI, fig. 7. 



An internal cast preserving none of the shell is referable to this 

 genus or possibly to Orthaulax. It is peculiar in having an erect flange 

 on one side of the last whorl at the suture, indicating such an ascending 

 lobe in the sutural region as characterizes Orthaulax gabbi Dall. 




356 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



AQUILLIDiE. 



Distorsio gatunensis Toula. PI. XXVI, fig. 8. 



Distorsio {Distortrix, Persona) gatunensis Toula, Jahrb., p. 700, PI. 25, fig. 10. 



This fine species is well-distinguished from Antillean Oligocene and 



recent forms by the larger size of its low, naticoid, embryonic shell 



of 3^ whorls, set somewhat aslant upon the sculptured portion fol- 



lowmg. It measures 2.25 mm. in diameter. The adult shell figured 



is 49 mm. long, with 6^ post-embryonic whorls. 



Malea camura Guppy. 



Malea ringens Conrad, Pacific R. R. Reports, VI, p. 72. PI. 5, fig. 22 (Gatun.) 

 Malea camura Guppy, Journ. Geol. Soc. Lond., XXIII, p. 287, PI. 17, fig. 9. 



Several specimens, none perfect, are perhaps referable to this Jamai- 

 can and Santo Domingan species, which was described from an imperfect 

 example of the small phase, having about 16 spiral ribs. The Gatun 

 shells are much larger, length about 80 mm., have a longer spire than 

 usual in M. camura, and about the same number of ribs. Conrad has 

 given a figure of the Gatun form, showing the characteristic high spire. 



Soonsia laevigata (Sowb.). 



Cassidaria laevigata Sowb., Journ. Geol. Soc, Lond., VI, p. 47, pi. 10, fig. 2. 



An internal cast and an imperfect shell broken from a hard matrix 

 evidently belong to this species. They are somewhat more oval, less 

 inflated above, than the largest examples from Santo Domingo. 

 Pymla near papyratia Say. 



A broken internal cast was found at Gatun, which shows no characters 

 inconsistent with the recent species, yet is not perfect enough for 

 positive identification. 



OYPR^IDiB. 

 Cyprsea henikeni Sowb., var. PI. XXVI, figs. 9, 10. 



Cyprcea henkeri Sowb., Journ. Geol. Soc. Lond., VI, p. 45, Pi. 9, fig. 3. 

 The typical C. henikeni from Santo Domingo has two well-developed 

 callous tubercles on the posterior part of the back, but in some shells 

 these are low or wanting. The sides, posteriorly, are sometimes coarsely 

 corrugated. In the specimens from Gatun there is no trace of the 

 dorsal nodes; the callus has several corrugations on each side of the 

 posterior canal, and lower ones may be felt along the sides. The 

 aperture is like that of Santo Domingo C. henikeni, except that the 

 teeth are more compressed and longer. In a specimen 42.5 mm. long 

 there are 15 teeth on the inner, 19 on the outer lip. Specimens retain- 

 ing part of the color are ochraceous with orange streaks, arranged as 

 in the recent C. mus. 




1911.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



357 



Length of figured specimen 42.5, width 31.6, height 23.2 mm. 

 larger fragment has an outer lip about 55 mm. long. 



Embry- 



OBBITHIID-ffi. 

 Bittium nugatoriam n. sp. Fig. 1. 



The shell is slender, diameter about one-third the length, 

 onic shell conic, of 3^ smooth convex whorls. Sub- 

 sequent whorls about 6^, convex, with well-impressed 

 suture; they have three narrow spiral cords, increas- 

 ing to four on the last two whorls, by the addition 

 of a subsutural thread. These are intersected by 

 narrow, slightly flexuous longitudinal ribs, forming 

 a lattice work enclosing square pits. On the last 

 whorl five spirals form this lattice; and there are 

 five smooth spirals without longitudinal ribs on the 

 base. There is a rounded varix on the last whorl. 

 Aperture not perfect. There is a slight anterior 

 channel. 



Length 3.6, diam. 1.2 mm. 



This species is similar to Cerithium collinsii Gabb, 

 from Limon, Costa Rica, in form, but differs by 

 having more embryonic whorls, and three spirals on the whorls of the 

 spire ; moreover, the base has five strong spiral cords. 



TURRITELLID^. 

 Turritella mimetes n. sp. PI. XXVII, fig. 1. 



The shell resembles T. variegata L. in contour, except that the base 

 is flat and the periphery much more strongly angular. Whorls 14 -f-, 

 fiat, the lower edge of each projecting a little. In the upper third of 

 the shell, each whorl has 16 fine, even threads, equal, and about equal 

 to their intervals. A submedian thread then becomes larger, and on 

 the later whorls there are many unequal spirals of three or four 

 sizes. The flat base has similar spirals, four or five threads being 

 larger than the other striae. 



Length 64, diam. 18 mm. 



This species differs from the recent T. variegata by the even and finer 

 striation of the upper whorls, the flat base and strongly angular 

 periphery. It is probably ancestral to the modern species. Some 

 fragments indicate that it reaches a larger siee than the nearly perfect 

 type specimen. 




358 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF l-A-pril, 



Turritella gatunensis Ckjnrad. PI. XXVII, figs. 4, 5, 9. 



Turritella gatunensis Conr., Pacific R. R. Rep., VI, p. 72, PL 5, fig. 20. 



Dall, Trans. Wagner Inst., Ill, p. 310, PI. 17, fig. 10. 

 Turritella conradi Toula, Jahrb., p. 694, PI. 25, fig. 4. 

 Not Turritella gatunensis Conrad, Gabb, Joxirn. A. N. S. Phila., VIII, p. 342, 



PI. 44, figs. 10, 10a ( = T. tristis.") 



This fine species stands close to T. planigyrata Guppy, but differs 

 from it by having the upper part of each whorl much more excavated 

 or contracted. Dall's figure, cited above, is not very characteristic 

 of the typical gatunensis, and Gabb's figures of the form from the 

 black shale of Oronli Creek, Talamanca, Costa Rica, represent a differ- 

 ent species.* The Pliocene T. subannulata Dall seems to be related 

 to T. gatunensis. 



Turritella uvasana Conr., from the Calif ornian Eocene, is not very 

 closely related to T. gatunensis, the spiral threads being subequal, 

 and the upper part of the whorls not nearly so much excavated as in 

 the Panamic species. T. uvasana is much nearer T. tristis in sculpture, 

 but on comparing specimens it is seen that uvasana has many more 

 spirals, longer and less convex whorls. 



T. gatunensis has been reported from Vicksburg Eocene of Florida 

 and from the Oligocene of Ballast Point (Dall, I.e.). It belongs to a 

 type widely spread in Tertiary and recent faunas. 



Turritella altilira Conrad. PI. XXVII, figs. 2, 3. 



Turritella altilira Conr., Pacific R. R. Reports, VI, p. 72, PI. 5, fig. 19 (Gatun). 

 Not Turritella altilirata Conrad, Gabb, Journ. A. N. S. Phila., VIII, p. 341 



PI. 44, figs. 9, 9a (Sapote, Costa Rica). 

 Turritella gabbi Toula, Jahrb., p. 695, PI. 25, fig. 5 (Gatun). 



This magnificent Turritella was rather rudely figured by Conrad. 

 It is a common and characteristic species of the Gatun beds. It 

 tapers slowly and, judging from the broken specimens seen, must 

 attain a length of upwards of 100 mm., with a basal diameter of 18 

 mm., and probably over 25 whorls. 



Each whorl bears two very high spiral ribs, crenulated at their 

 summits, the lower rib narrow, the upper wider, usually but not always 

 double at the ridge, or with a lower cord below the main one. The 

 deep concavity between the ridges has sculpture of several unequal 

 spiral cords, more or less crenulated; and the whole surface, when 



• Turritella tristis n. sp. A long, slowly tapering shell with strongly convex 

 whorls, the intermediate and lower ones with sculpture of five sharp, strong spiral 

 cords, much narrower than their concave, spirally striate intervals. The largest 

 fragment has 9 whorls in a length of 30 mm., the last whorl about 9 mm. in 

 diameter. Gabb has figured this in his PI. 44, fig. 10. Others are larger, diameter 

 about 15 mm. The interstitial striae are not very well-preserved, but are visible 

 in places. Black shale bed, Oronli Creek, Talamanca. 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILAPELPHIA. 359 



most perfect, has a very fine spiral striation. The last whorl has a 

 third rib. subperipheral in position, the base below it somewhat 

 convex, marked with some radial stride and lamellae. 



On the early whorls the spiral ribs are less prominent and the 

 interstitial beaded cords rather better developed. The embryonic 

 and early neanic whorls are unknown. 



T. tornata Guppy, known to us by a series collected by Gabb in 

 Santo Domingo, is very closely related to T. altilira, but it differs 

 constantly, in a considerable series seen, by the far less prominent 

 spiral ribs. Whether this difference is to be regarded as specific or 

 as subspecific is not a matter of great importance. The Pliocene 

 T. terehriformis Dall may be a descendant of the tornata stock. 



Gabb figured an allied form from the Miocene ( ?) of Sapote, Costa 

 Rica, as " Turritella altilirata Conrad." This name is either a mistake 

 or an emendation of Conrad's altilira; but the specimens are clearly 

 not that species. We propose to call Gabb's form Turritella sapo- 

 tensis, n. sp. (PI. 27, fig. 10). Each whorl has a strong, compressed 

 spiral rib at the lower third, obliquely crenulated at its summit, as 

 in T. altilira. Above this rib the surface is a little convex, and bears 

 about five unequal spiral cords, crenulated and very low. The upper 

 two of these cords correspond in position with the upper spiral rib in 

 T. altilira. There is also a low cord above the suture. The broken 

 shell figured (which also served for Gabb's PI. 44, fig. 9a) measures 

 29 mm. long, 15 mm. in greatest diameter, and consists of somewhat 

 over 3 whorls. 



Gabb's figure 9 misrepresents another fragmentary shell, which, from 

 the hard matrix which partly envelopes it, was evidently found with 

 T. sapotensis. So far as visible, it very closely resembles T. tornata 

 from Santo Domingo. It is clearly not T. altilira, nor do we think it a 

 younger stage of T. sapotensis, though such may possibly prove to be 

 the case. 



The age of the Sapote bed which furnished Gabb's fossils is uncer- 

 tain, dementia dariena (Conr.) is the only species known to be 

 common to this and the Gatvm bed. Turritella is an excellent index 

 of small divisions in the Tertiary ; T. sapotensis is apparently a deriva- 

 tive from T. altilira; and so far as that theory is of any value, may 

 indicate that the Sapote bed is later than the Gatun, perhaps Miocene. 



VERMETIDiE. 

 Fetaloconohus domingensis Sowb. 



P. domingensis Sowb., Journ. Geol. Soc. Lond., VI, p. 51, PI. 10, fig. 9. 

 An internal cast apparently of this species. 




360 PROCEEDINGS OV THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



SOIiARIIDiE. 

 Solarium granalatum gatunensis Toula. 



S. gatunense Toula, Jahrb., p. 692, PI. 25, fig. 3. 

 This form is more depressed than S. granulaium or its ancestor 

 S. quadriseriatum Sowb., but with sculpture closely resembling both, 

 and especially the form of granulatum found in the Bowden Oligocene. 

 It differs from all of the above-named forms by lacking a small thread 

 in the intervals immediately above and below the peripheral cord. 

 The Gatun shell is probably, therefore, a lateral branch from the 

 quadriseriatum granulatum stock. 



NATIOID^. 

 Natica guppyana Toula. 



Nalica guppyana Toula, Jahrb., p. 696, PI. 25, fig. 6. 

 Closely related to N. rugosa Gmel., but adult shells are larger, with 

 the grooves obsolete in the middle of the last whorl. 

 Natica (T) sp. undet. PI. XXVII, figs. 6, 7. 



Internal cast of a species having about the size and contour of the 

 small southern race of P. diiplicata (Say). Diameter 40 mm. 



Folinices subclausa (Sowb.). 



Natica subclausa Sowb., Journ. Geol. Soc. Lond., VI, p. 51 (Santo Domingo). 



*Lupia perovato Conrad. 



Dall in Hill, Bull. M. C. Z., XXVIII, p. 273. 



Vamos a Vamos beds (Hill). Cf. Amaura guppyi Gabb. 



Sigaretus gatunensis Toula. 



Sigaretus {Lupia Conrad) gatunensis Toula, Jahrb., p. 697, PI. 28, fig. 3. 

 A form related to *S. perspeetivus Say. 



OAPULIDffi. 



*Capulus (T) gatunensis Toula. 



Jahrb., p. 692, PI. 25, figs. 1, 2. 

 Possibly identical with the Cheilea described below, but if so the 

 generic characters have been overlooked by Toula. It differs by the 

 oblong shape and more nearly central apex. 



OALYPTR^ID^. 

 Crepidula plana Say. 



Several specimens occurred in the apertures of other gastropods. 

 Cheilea prinoetonia n- sp. rig. 2. 



A small species, circular, conic with apex curved in a minute hook; 

 front slope somewhat convex, posterior slope nearly straight; surface 

 with sculpture of fine growth-lines and a few wide, low, irregular 




1911.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



circular waves, and excessively fine, close radial strise. 

 process narrow and slightly asymmetrical at its insertion. 



361 



Internal 



Fig. 2. — Cheilea princetonia, dorsal and lateral views of internal cast. 



Width 8.8, alt. 3.5 mm. 



The type is an internal cast and external mould of the same individ- 

 ual, in a hard matrix. The radial striation is finer than in the recent 

 Antillean C. equestris of the same size. C. varia (Brod.) of the Pacific 

 coast is apparently more nearly related to the Isthmian form. 



The type is No. 5,516 of the Princeton University museum, col- 

 lected by Mr. Ward H. Farrington, 1908. 



NUOULIDJE. 

 Nttoula (Aoila) isthmica n. sp. PI. XXVII, figs. 11, 12. 



The shell is trigonal with the upper margin anterior to the beaks, 

 and the basal margin strongly convex, the posterior margin shortest 

 and straight; posterior angle rather acute, the anterior rounded off, 

 beaks moderately prominent, opisthocoelous, at the posterior third of 

 the length; no lunule. Externally an angle, strong but not acute, 

 runs from the beak to the posterior angle, and a depression or con- 

 cavity of the outer face accompanies it. Elsewhere the outer face 

 is strongly convex. The flat, truncate, posterior area has a sculpture 

 of arcuate ribs, divaricating at the angle from those of the outer face, 

 and terminating at right angles with the posterior end. The dorsal 

 area anterior to the beaks has a corrugation composed of short ribs 

 which run almost transversely to the long axis of the shell. The rest 

 of the surface has close radial sculpture of riblets which diverge V-like 

 from a median line. These riblets are a little irregular, in places 

 slightly tuberculiferous ; they are closer and a trifle narrower near the 

 posterior concavity, becoming perceptibly more spaced anteriorly, 

 where the intervals are a little wider, crossed by irregular, fine, raised 

 24 




362 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



striae. At the basal margin there are several more ribs in the posterior 

 than in the anterior series. Inside there are about 18 teeth in front 

 of the beaks, about 7 behind them. The angle of the hinge line at the 

 beaks is obviously greater than a right angle. 



Length 18, alt. 13, diam. 9.5 mm. 



Described from a right and a left valve, the latter being figured. 

 It is clearly distinct from A^. decisa Conrad and A^. cordata Dall. of the 

 Pacific slope Miocene,^ and the recent Pacific N. castrensis Hinds. 



LBDID^. 

 Leda balboae n. sp. Pi. XXVII, fig. 8. 



The shell is rather thin, plump, with small submedian, closely 

 adjacent and recurved beaks; pointed posterior and rounded anterior 

 end, and arcuate base, which is less convex posteriorly. The upper 

 margin is slightly concave behind and convex before the beaks. No 

 lunule. Posterior dorsal area lanceolate, concave, defined by an acute 

 carina running to the rostrum, sculptured with straight radial riblets. 

 The rest of the valve has concentric ribs, which are slightly more 

 abrupt on the upper side. In the middle of the valve in 5 mm. next 

 the basal margin there are about 13 riblets. The hinge-line is rather 

 narrow, armed with angular or V-shaped teeth, of which there are 

 18 behind and 28 in front of the beaks. 



Length 22.3, alt. 12.0, diam. 10.0 mm. (type). 

 " 19.0, " 11.3, " 9.6 " 



Known from two right valves. It has much resemblance to the 

 recent Panamic L. agapea Dall in contour, but differs by the acute 

 ridge bounding the dorsal posterior area and various other details. 



Leda coelata Hinds closely resembles L. balhoce, but it differs by 

 having a distinct lunule, which is not present in the Gatun species. 



AROIDuE, 

 Area dariensis n. sp. PI. XXII, fig. 10. 



The shell is long (the alt. six-tenths of the length), basal and upper 

 margins subparallel, beaks small, at the anterior two-sevenths of the 

 length. Valves not quite equal, the left slightly surpassing the other 

 along the basal margin. Sculpture of about 31 radial ribs. In the 

 median part of the valves these ribs are narrower than their intervals. 

 In the left valve the ribs are closely nodulous in the lower part, very 

 shortly scaly near the beaks. Towards the two ends the ribs widen 

 and become divided by a median groove, on both sides of which it 



• Trans. Wagner Inst, III, p. 573, PI. 40. 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 363 



becomes nodulose, and the intervals are crossed by their lamellse. 

 In the right valve the ribs are smooth in the middle field, the intervals 

 concave, with concentric lamellae towards the beaks. At both ends 

 the ribs are wider and divided by a groove, as in the other valve. 

 In both valves the anterior ribs have a shallow sulcus, the posterior 

 ones a distinct narrow furrow. The ligament area is narrow, lanceo- 

 late, marked with two or three grooves diverging at a wide angle 

 The teeth are very fine and close, about 70 in a shell 36 mm. long 

 Interior radially striate, the margin crenulate as usual. 



Length 86.0, alt. 20, diam. 18.2 mm. 

 " 31.8, " 18, " 13.5 " 



This is an abundant Ark in the Gatun bed. It is well-characterized 

 by the rather narrow shape, grooved posterior and shallowly sulcate 

 anterior ribs, while the ribs of the median part are simple in the right, 

 granulous in the left valve. 

 Glycymeris carbasina n. sp. PI. XXVIII, fig. 9. 



Shell of the usual subcircular shape, solid, equilateral, with slightly 

 prosogyrate beaks, scarcely separated by the very narrow ligament- 

 area. Sculpture of many very low radial ribs equal to the intervals, 

 with over the whole a minute sculpture of radial cut by equal concen- 

 tric strise, forming a regular granulation by their intersection. On 

 each rib (to the middle of the interval) there are five or six radial 

 granule- threads. The antero-dorsal and postero-dorsal areas have 

 no major ribs, but there are fine radial riblets, the intervals of which,, 

 being crossed by the concentric striae, appear to have a single series; 

 of punctures in each. The hinge is rather wide. Tooth-row of 10.12 

 teeth meeting V-like in the middle, where they are invaded by the- 

 ligamental area in the largest specimen seen. Inner margins of the- 

 valves crenulate throughout, the "teeth" of the basal portion very^ 

 deeply cut, narrow, with a concavity in each. 



Length 18, alt. 16, semidiam. 5 mm.; 66 crenulations in the margin,, 

 hinge teeth 10.11. 



Very closely related to G. jamaicensis Dall, of the Bowden Oligocene,. 

 but that has much smaller, more numerous hinge-teeth in shells 

 of the same size, the anterior contour is more irregular, and the- 

 fluting of the basal margin is far less deep. The external sculpture 

 is practically identical in the two forms. The recent Antillean G, 

 lineata (Rve.) is extremely close to G. carbasina, but in the latter the 

 marginal fluting is far more emphatic. We do not know that the 

 fossil form ever attains nearly the size of G. lineata, of which it is 

 probably a direct ancestor. 




364 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



Two other specimens measure as follows: 



Length 14.9, alt. 14.8, semidiam. 4.9 mm.; hinge-teeth 8.9. 

 " 14.0, " 12.5, " 3.9 " " " 7.9. 



Glyoymeris oanalis n. sp. PI. XXVIII, flg. lo. 



The subcircular shell is a little higher than long, solid, equilateral, 

 with nearly straight, contiguous beaks, the ligamental area being 

 extremely narrow and short. Sculpture of 33 strong, rounded ribs, 

 separated by linear grooves, and obsoletely marked with rather 

 regular concentric growth-strise. Tooth-row strongly angulated in 

 the middle, with 10 teeth on each side. Inner margin crenulated with 

 about 20 strong "teeth," the upper margins not crenulated. 



Length 14.5, alt. 15.1, semidiam. 4.6 mm. 



Described from several valves, on which we count 30, 31, 32 and 

 33 ribs. This species has a close resemblance to G. pectinata (Gmel.) 

 of the Antillean fauna, which differs by having wider sulci between 

 the ribs, and by having an area of smaller ribs on the anterior end, 

 while in canalis they decrease gradually in size. 



Glyoymeris acutioostata Sowb. 



Pectunculus acuticostatus Sowb., Journ. Geol. Soc. Lond., VI, 1849, p. 53, 

 PI. 10, fig. 13 (Santo Domingo). 



T3^ical, agreeing with Santo Domingo and Jamaican specimens. 



PEOTINID^. 

 Peoten (JEquipecten) efFossus n. sp. PI. XXVIII, figs. 4, 6. 



An orbicular, equilateral, compressed shell, resembling P. scissuratus 

 Dall. The length and diameter are nearly equal, the ears subequal, 

 the left valve nearly flat, the right one more convex, A left valve 

 has 17 ribs, as wide as the slightly concave intervals. Each rib has 

 the shape of an inverted V, but with rounded ridge, and a thin longi- 

 tudinal lamella in the middle of each lateral slope, these lamellae define 

 furrows which terminate in incisions at the edge. The whole surface 

 is finely sculptured with delicate concentric threads, subregularly 

 and not closely spaced. These threads are arched downward in the 

 intervals. Ears marked with several narrow radial riblets and con- 

 centric growth-threads. Length 1 1 .2, alt. 11 mm. The right valve of a 

 large shell, alt. about 19 mm., has similar sculpture, except that the 

 ribs are larger. The interior is deeply furrowed in both valves. 



The specimens of P. scissuratus in Gabb's Santo Domingo collection 

 (PI. 28, figs. 2, 5; alt. 27, width 27.5 mm.) differ from the above- 

 described form by having the concentric threads crowded and crimped 

 in the intercostal spaces and by having much better developed lam- 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 365 



ellae across the furrows on the ribs. They have been compared with 

 the types of the species by Dr. W. H. Dall. Fig. 2 measures, alt. 27, 

 width 27.8 mm. 



Pecten gatunensis Toula. 



Pecten (Flabellipecten) gatunensis Toula, Jahrb., p. 711, PI. 26, fig. 2. 

 The fragmentary specimens taken add nothing to Toula's account. 

 Pecten (Plagioctenium) operculariformis Toula. 



Pecten (^quipecten?) operculariformis Toula, Jahrb., p. 712, PI. 26, fig. 3. 

 The ribs are narrower and have steeper slopes than in the related 

 recent P. nucleus. P. excentricus Gabb is a closely related, yet appar- 

 ently distinct form, from Santo Domingo. 

 ♦Pecten levicostatus Toula. 



Pecten levicostatus Toula, Jahrb., p. 713, PI. 26, figs. 4 (5, 6). 

 Pecten thetidis Sowb. and J antra soror Gabb have been identified by 

 Gabb from Gatun (Journ. A. N. S. Phila., VIII, 346, 347). 



♦Pecten (Amusium) lyonii Gabb. 



Pleuronectia lyonii Gabb, Journ. A. N. S. Phila., VIII, p. 347 (Gatun speci- 

 mens). 

 Pecten {Amusium) cf. mortoni Ravenel, Toula, Jahrb., p. 714, PI. 26, figs. 8, 9. 



This form is not present in our material. Gabb reported it from 

 Gatun, and Toula has figured specimens which have the appearance 

 of the Costa Rican species, the types of which are before us. 



Pecten (Amusium) toulse n. sp. PI. XXVIII, fig. 7. 



Pecten {Amusium) gatunensis Toula, Jahrb., p. 716, PI. 26, fig. 10. Not 

 Pecten gatunensis Toula, t. c, p. 711. 



The shell is smooth, thin and flat, equilateral, closely resembling 

 P. lyonii Gabb, of Sapote, Costa Rica (probably Miocene), and P. 

 papyracea Gabb. of the Santo Domingan Oligocene. The surface is 

 marked with narrow, sharply defined gray rays on a white ground, 

 the rays less than half as wide as the intervals, subequal in the median 

 part, much narrower at the sides, where they gradually fade out, and 

 about 17 in number. Ears broad, subequal, marked with close, fine 

 growth-lines, more distinct than on the disk. Interior smooth, so 

 far as seen, but the marginal region, where ribs are developed in 

 related forms, is wanting in the specimen. Greatest breadth of the 

 broken specimen figured 48 mm. It attains a much greater size. 



In P. lyonii the gray rays are wider, when visible, and the spaces 

 between them are slightly convex; the interior has coarse radial ribs, 

 but none are visible in P. toulce where the inside is exposed, at the 

 lower margin of the broken shell. P. papyracea has fine internal ribs 

 in pairs. 




366 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



Toula has figured and described this species, but by oversight he 

 used a specific name already employed on a previous page of the same 

 paper. 



OSTREID^. 

 Ostrea gatunensis n. sp. PI. XXIX. figs. 1, 2. 



Ostrea spec. %nd. and Ostrea aff. vespertina Conr., Toula, Jahrb., p. 710. Pi. 

 26, fig. I ; PI. 28, fig. 14. 



A short oval oyster, the convex valve with coarsely, radially 

 corrugated exterior, the rugae rarely divaricating, and with a few 

 decumbent spines. The rather short beak is bent at an angle of about 

 45 degrees with the long axis of the shell. Inside there is a rather 

 short ligament area, the wide valve-margin adjacent to it being 

 sculptured with strong, close, transverse, irregular wrinkles. The 

 margins are elsewhere simple. Cavity of the valve not deep, and not 

 in the least excavating the beak. 



Length 100, width 72 mm. 



Toula (1. c.) mentions an oyster near vespertina Conrad which is 

 probably the young of this species and of his undetermined Ostrea. 



The interior reminds one somewhat of 0. irideseens Brod., but that 

 has a deep excavation under the beak, among other differences. It 

 stands extremely close to the recent Indo-Pacific 0. hyotis (L.). 



Part of a valve of a very narrow, strongly convex and very peculiar 

 oyster was also found at Gatun. 



OARDIID^ 

 Cardium (Traehycardium) stiriatum n. sp. PI. XXVIII, fig. ll. 



Cardium spec, vielleickt eine neue Art, Toula, Jahrb., p. 721, PI. 27, fig. 5; 

 PI. 28, fig. 15a, b. 



The shell is rather thick, very plump, much higher than long, nearly 

 equilateral, the posterior end a little straightened. Beaks median, 

 the incurved tip concealed by the reflexed hinge-margin. Sculpture of 

 30 radial ribs. At the two ends these ribs bear strongly projecting, 

 drop-shaped tubercles. In the median part of the valve the ribs lean 

 posteriorly, and have a narrow tuberculate cord superposed on the 

 posterior side of each, the tubercles elongated parallel to the cord in 

 the median ribs, oblique or twisted on it, on the lateral ribs. The 

 interstices are not very deep at the ends, but in the median moiety 

 of the valve they are narrow and very deeply cut, overhung by the 

 high side of the rib. The middle of each rib, anterior of the tuberculate 

 ridge, bears one or several low cords, and the anterior slope has some 

 fine, irregular, transverse striae. Teeth strong, margin deeply fluted 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 367 



and crenulate, the creniilations narrow and deep on the posterior 

 margin, triangular in the basal margin, very shallow at the anterior 

 margin. 



Length 29.5, width 24, semidiameter 12 mm.; 30 ribs. 

 " 31.0, " 25, " 13 " ;29 " 



This species is closely related to the recent West Coast Cardium 

 belcheri Brod., which has ribs of the same peculiar, asymmetrical 

 character. In the Gatun shell there are many more ribs, and the 

 tubercles upon them are shorter and blunt, while in C. belcheri they 

 are more spiniform. 



Cardium lingualeonis Guppy is proportionately narrower and has 

 more ribs, but seems to be rather close to the Gatun species. 



C. stiriatum is, by its complex sculpture, a relatively specialized 

 form; but it is less advanced than the recent C. belcheri, which is 

 further evolved by the reduction in number of ribs; a large number 

 being primitive in Cardium. C. stiriatum may be an ancestor of the 

 recent species. 



This species was known to Toula by hard internal casts, which alone 

 are found in a layer containing mainly bivalves. The largest of several 

 of these casts before us measures, length 26, alt. 33, diam. 26.5 mm. 



♦Cardium (Trachycardium) dominicanum Dall. 



C. (T.) dominicanum Dall, Trans. Wagner Inst., Ill, p. 1,082. 



Oligocene shale near Gatun. 



Cardium (Trachycardium) dominicense Gabb. 



C. (T.) dominicense Gabb, Geol. Santo Domingo, p. 25; Journ. A. N. S. 



Phila., VIII, p. 344 (Gatun and Costa Rica). 

 Cardium (Trachycardium) gatunense Toula, Jahrb., K. K. Geol. Reichsanst., 



1908, LVIII, p. 720, PI. 27, fig. 4. Not Cardium (Fragum) gatunense 



Dall, 1900. 



Abundant in the Gatun collection we have studied. The specimens 

 agree perfectly with Gabb's type of C. dominicense. 



Cardium (Lsevicardium) serratum L. 



Dall, Trans. Wagner Free Inst., Ill, p. 1110. 



The shell seems indistinguishable from those of the Bowden bed 

 and from the recent form. C. apicinum Cpr. from the Pacific is 

 closely related. 



♦Cardium (Lsevicardium) dalli Toula. 

 Jahrb., p. 722, PI. 27, fig. 6. ' 



If really distinct from C. serratum, this species will require a new 

 name, dalli being in use for a fine Pliocene species. 




368 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



'Cardinm (Fragum) gatnnense Call. 



Trans. Wagner Free Inst., Ill, p. 1100. 

 Black shales of Gatun, collected by R. T. Hill. We have not seen 

 this species. 

 ♦Cardium (?) newberryanum Gabb. 



C. (Protocardia) newberryanum Gabb, Journ. A. N. S. Phila., VIII, p. 344, 

 PI. 44, fig. 17. 



Gatun (Newberry). 



TELLINID^. 

 ♦Tellina dariena Conrad. 



T. dariena Conr., Pacific R. R. Rep., V, p. 328, PI. 6, fig. 55. 



♦Tellina gatunensis Toula. 



T. gatunensis Toula, Jahrb., p. 729, text fig. 10. 



♦Tellina rowlandi Toula. 



T. rowlandi Toula, Jahrb., p. 728, PI. 28, fig. 11. 



♦Tellina lepidota Dall. 



Tellina (Phyllodina) lepidota Dall, Trans. Wagnar Free Inst., Ill, p. 1022, 

 PI. 46, fig. 18. 



Oligocene sandstone at Gatun (Dall). 



*Semele sayi Toula. 



S. sayi Toula, Jahrb., p. 730, PI. 28, fig. 17. 

 Tellina sp. undet. 



Casts of a species resembling TeUina laevigata in size and shape. It 

 is distinct from any species recorded by Toula, and apparently not 

 found in the Bowden or Santo Domingo beds. 



Tellina sp- undet. 



Casts of a species possibly identical with T. laceridens Hanley, 

 agreeing closely with that in shape. It is somewhat larger; length 61, 

 alt. 37 mm. 



We consider fig. 168 of the Thesaurus monogi'aph to be the typical 

 form of T. laceridens. 



VENERID^. 

 Chione tegulum n.Jsp. PI. XXVIII, fig. 8. 



Shell plump, the altitude almost equal to the length, with prominent 

 prosogyrate beaks near the anterior third. Sculpture of rounded^ 

 tilelike radial ribs (their summits 1 mm. apart near the basal margin, 

 in the median part of a shell 19 mm. in alt.) ; these are interrupted by 

 narrow, concentric, machiolated ridges, curved downwards in the 

 intervals, upward where they cross the radial ribs. There are 26 of 

 the concentric ridges in a shell 19 mm. in altitude. The wide, cordate 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 369* 



lunule has radial lamellae only, and is defined by a deep groove. The 

 lanceolate escutcheon is concave, with sculpture of smooth raised lines? 

 continued from the concentric lamellae. The basal and anterior 

 valve-margins are crenulated inside, as is also the margin along the- 

 lunule. 



Length 19.5, alt. 19, semidiameter 8 mm. 



This species resembles C. woodwardi Guppy, from the Bowden 

 Oligocene, but differs by having a smaller lunule, and in the details, 

 of sculpture, as shown in the figure. 



Chione sp. undet. 



A species resembling C. woodwardi, but reaching a length of over 

 40 mm., occurred as casts retaining very little of the shell. 



Chione (Lirophora) ulocyma (Dall). 



Trans. Wagner Inst., Ill, p. 1296, PI. 42, fig. 5 (Miocene of Alum Bluff,, 



Calhoun County, Fla., etc.). 

 Venus (Chione, Lirophora) ulocyma Dall, Toula, Jahrb., p. 724, PL 25,, 



figs. 20-22. 



There seem to be two forms: one agreeing with the type figure of 

 ulocyma in having coarse concentric sculpture; the other having 

 much finer, more numerous wrinkles. In the former the beaks appear 

 to be smooth, but possibly as the result of wear. In the finely sculp- 

 tured form the beaks have about five thin concentric widely spaced 

 laminae, preceding the corrugated stage, such as are described for 

 C. hurnsi Dall. This race may be called C. ulocyma holocyma. In 

 this race, as well as in the coarse form, the radial grooves are very 

 strongly developed. 



♦Chione (Liriphora) mactropsis (Conrad) 



Grateloupia mactropsis Conrad, Pacific R. R. Rep., V, p. 328, PI. 6, fig. 54. 

 Chione (Liriphora) mactropsis Conr., Dall. Trans. Wagner Inst., Ill, p. 

 1294. 



Eocene and Oligocene of Isthmus of Darien, Blake; Gatun and 

 Vamos-a-Vamos, Panama Canal, Agassiz. 10.5 K. w. of Colon, Hill 

 (Dall). Chiriqui, Dr. John Evans (Gabb). 



Pitar centangulata n. sp. 



Pitaria (Hyphantosoma) n. sp., Toula, Jahrb., p. 726, PI. 28, fig. 16. 

 Cf. Pitaria (Hyphantosoma) opisthogrammata and floridana Dall, Trans. 

 Wagner Inst., Ill, p. 1,267. 



This species is closely related, as Toula has pointed out, to the 



above-named species of Dall. It differs from P. floridana (from the 



Chipola Oligocene) in the rotund-oval, not " subtrigonal " shape? 



and in the even rotundity of the valves, without trace of a flattening 



or sulcus running to the posterior base; but it agrees with floridana 




370 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



in the very fine, markedly zigzag sculpture, there being three to four 

 lines to a millimeter. P. opisthogrammata, of the Floridian Pliocene, 

 is a "rounded-quadrate" shell with "the zigzag sculpture nearly 

 obsolete." 



Pitar oora n. sp. Pi. XXVIII, flg. 3. 



The shell is extremely thin, oval, with prosogyrate beaks at the 

 .anterior fourth ; rather plump ; dorsal margin rather concave in front 

 of, and slightly convex behind, the beaks. Sculpture of fine, nearly 

 even concentric riblets, without radial striation. No defined lunule 

 or escutcheon. Interior unknown, but the valve-margins are smooth 

 inside. 



Length 35, alt. 26.5, diam. 18.5 mm. 



This species occurred as casts in a hard matrix retaining the shell 

 in. places. P. hilli Dall is a longer, lower shell. 



*Macrocallista maculata (L.) (?). 



Cytherea (?) (Meretrix) dariena Conrad, Pacific R. R. Rep., VI, p. 72, PI. 5, 

 fig. 21. 



"Isthmus of Darien." Identified by Gabb and Dall with the above 

 recent species, but the cast figured by Conrad seems to us uncharac- 

 teristic. 



♦Pitar hillii Dall. 



Pitaria (Lamelliconcha) hillii Dall, Tians. Wagner Inst., Ill, p. 1,268, PI. 54, 

 fig. 7. 



Near Gatun. 



*Pitar oircinata (Born). 



Venus circinata Born, Mus. Test. Vindobon., p. 61, PI. 4, fig. 8. 



Pitaria (Lamelliconcha) circinata Born, Dall, Trans. Wagner Inst., Ill, 



p. 1269. 

 Cytherea juncea Guppy, Q. Journ. Geol. Soc. Lond., XXII, p. 582, PI. 22, 



fig. 13 (Oligocene of Cumana, Venezuela). 



Gatun (Dall). Also recent, on both coasts of Central America. 

 It is a more coarsely, sharply sculptured shell than P. cora. 



"''Callocardia (Agriopoma) gatunensis Dall. 



C. {A.) gatunensis Dall, Trans. Wagner Inst., Ill, p. 1,260, PI. 54, fig. 1. 

 Toula, Jahrb., p. 723, PI. 25, fig. 23. 



Gatun; Monkey Hill. 



*Callocardia gatunensis multifilosa Dall. 

 Dall, I. c, p. 1,261, PI. 54, fig. 15. 

 Gatun, with the preceding. Also Ponton, Santo Domingo. We 

 have not seen this species, which should resemble Pikir cora rather 

 •closely, except as to the lunule. 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 371 



Another Callocardia, undetermined, is recorded by Dall from Vamos- 

 a-Vamos (t. c, p. 1,261). 



Clementia dariena (Courad). PI. XXVIII, flg. i. 



Meretrix dariena Conrad, Pacific R. R. Rep., V, p. 328, PI. 6, fig. 55. 

 Clementia dariena Conr., Gabb, Journ. A. N. S. Phila. (2), VIII, p. 344, 



PI. 44, fig. 16. Dall, Trans. Wagner Inst., Ill, p. 1,235. 

 Toula, Jahrb., p. 725, PI. 27, figs. 9, 10. 



A common clam in the Gatun OHgocene, also found in the presum- 

 ably later bed at Sapote, Costa Rica. No nearly related species has 

 been found in the Santo Domingo or Bowden beds. 



Cyclinella gatunensis Dall. 



C. gatunensis Dall, Trans. Wagner Inst., Ill, p. 1,285, PI. 52, fig. 18. 

 In the best preserved specimens the sculpture of somewhat thread- 

 like concentric lines is about equally strong over the whole valve, 

 except near the beaks. Except for the tenuity of the shell, it might 

 be a Dosinia. 



MAOTRIDu^. 

 *Mactra dariensis Dall. 



M. dariensis Dall, Trans. Wagner Inst., Ill, p. 895. 

 Vamos-a-Vamos. 



OORBULID^. 

 Corbula gatnnensis Toula. 



C. gatunensis Toula, Jahrb., p. 733, PI. 27, fig. 12. 

 This species attains a larger size than Toula's type, an example 

 measuring, length 26, alt. 22 mm. It is remarkable for the disparity 

 in sculpture between the ribbed neanic and the smooth mature 

 •stage. 



Corbula sphenia Dall. 



Corbula (Cuneocorbula) sphenia Dall, Trans. Wagner Inst., p. 847, PI. 36, 

 fig. 10 (Chipola River Oligocene). 



A single valve agrees fairly well with the account of this species. 



It has more and narrower concentric ribs than the figure of that species 



shows, and is larger, length 22.2, alt. 13.5 mm. Probably identical 



with C. dominicensis Gabb, but there are some slight differences. 



Corbula sericea Dall. 



Corbida {Cuneocorbula) sericea Dall, Trans. Wagner Inst., p. 848, PI. 6, 

 fig. 8 (Oligocene of Bowden, Jamaica). 



A single valve from Gatun is evidently referable to this species. 



^Corbula alabamiensis Lea. 



C. alabamiensis Lea, Dall, Trans. Wagner Inst., Ill, p. 841. 

 Described from the Alabama Eocene (Claibornian) ; reported by 

 Dall from the Gatun beds. 




372 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April ^ 



♦Corbula gregorioi Cossmann. 



C. gregorioi Cossm., Dall, Trans. Wagner Inst., Ill, p. .843. 

 A Claibornian Eocene species reported by Dall from the Gatun beds. 



♦Corbula heterogenea Guppy. 



C. heterogenea Guppy, Dall. Trans. Wagner Inst., Ill, p. 850. 

 Vamos-a-Vamos (Dall). 



♦Corbula viminea Guppy. 



C. viminea Guppy, Dall, Trans. Wagner Inst., Ill, p. 850. 

 Vamos-a-Vamos (Dall). 



TE3REDID^. 

 Teredo dendrolestes n. sp. Text fig. 3 ; Pi. I, fig. lo. 



The thin-walled tubes are crowded, run with 

 the gi'ain of the wood, as usual, curving outward 

 at the orifice. They have a diameter of about 

 5 mm., the longest (broken) reaching a length of 

 about 60 mm. The terminus of the tube is hemi- 

 spherical. It encloses a very delicate shell shaped 

 ...'•' like the annexed outline figure. There are long 

 apophyses. The exterior of the shell is unknown, 

 Fig- 3. being cemented to the calcified tube. 



SOLENlDJE. 



♦Solecurtus gatunensis Toula. 



Solecurtus gatunensis Toula, Jahrb., p. 732, PI. 28, fig. 12. 



♦Solecurtus strigillatus (L.). 



Solecurtus (Macha) strigillatus L., Toula, Jahrb., p. 731, text fig. 11, PI. 27, 

 fig. 12. 



♦Thraoia gatunensis Toula. 



Thracia gatunensis Toula, Jahrb., p. 757, text fig. 15. 



Reference to Plates XXII- XXIX. 



Plate XXII. — Fig. 1. — Terebra wolfgangi Toula. 

 Fig. 2. — Terebra gatunensis Toula. 

 Figs. 3-6. — -Terebra wolfgangi Toula. 

 Fig. 7. — Terebra subsulcifera n. sp., X 2. 



Figs. 8, 9. — Terebra gansapata n. sp., two views of the type, fig. 8, X]5. 

 Fig. 10. — Area dariensis n. sp. 

 Fig. 11. — Teredo dendrolestes n. sp. 



Plate XXIII. — Fig. 1. — Conus molis n. sp. 



Figs. 2, 3. — Conus gaza n. sp. (Santo Domingo'). 



Fig. 4. — Conus imitator n. sp. 



Figs. 5, 6. — Conus concavitectum n. sp. 



Fig. 7. — Drillia fusinus n. sp. 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 373 



Fig. 8. — Drillia zooki n. sp. 



Fig. 'd.—Conus (emulator n. sp., X 2. 



Figs. 10, 11. — Drillia isthmica n. sp. 



Plate XXIV. — Figs. 1, 2. — Cancellaria dariena trachyostraca n. subsp. 

 Figs. 3, 4. — Cancellaria dariena Toula. 



Figs. 5, %.— Cancellaria decaptyx n. sp., two views of the type. 

 Fig. 7. — Mitra, sp. undet., part of the columella. 



Fig. 8. — Mitra, sp. undet., internal cast, No. 5,515, coll. Princeton Uni- 

 versity. 

 Fig. 9. — Mitra dariensis, n. sp. 

 Fig. 10. Marginella gatunensis n. sp. 

 Fig. 11. — Mitra longa Gabb, Gatun specimen. 

 Fig. 12. — Marginella coniformis Sowb., var. 

 Fig. 13. — Marginella leander n. sp. 

 Fig. 14. — Solenosteira dalli n. sp. 



Plate XXV. — Figs. 1, 2. — Phos gatunensis Toula. 

 Fig. 3. — Phos subsemicostatus n. sp. 

 Fig. 4. — Metula gabbi n. sp. 

 Fig. 5. — Anachis fugax n. sp. 



Figs. 6, 7. — Strombina cyphonotus P. and J., n. sp., Santo Domingo. 

 Fig. 8. — Metula gabbi n. sp. 



Figs. 9, 10. — Strombina prisma J. and P., n. sp., Santo Domingo. 

 Figs. 11, 12. — Strombina lessepsiana n. sp. 



Plate XXVI. — Fig. 1. — Murex polynematicus n. sp. 

 Fig. 2. — Murex gatunensis n. sp. 

 Fig. 3. — Strombus gatunensis Toula. 



Figs. 4, 5. — Strombus gatunensis Toula, No. 5,512, coll. Princeton University. 

 Fig. 6. — Typhis gabbi n sp. 

 Fig. 7. — Strombus (?) sp., internal cast. 

 Fig. 8. — Distorsio gatunensis Toula. 



Figs. 9, 10. — Cyprcea henikeni Sowb., smoothish var., No. 5,511, Princeton 

 University. 



Plate XXVII. — Fig. 1. — Turritella mimetes n. sp. 

 Figs. 2, 3. — Turritella altilira Conrad. 

 Figs. 4, 5. — Turritella gatunensis Conrad. 

 Figs. 6, 7. — Natica, sp. undet. Internal cast. 

 Fig. 8. — Leda balboce n. sp. 



Fig. 9. — Turritella gatunensis Con. Pseudomorph in calclte. 

 Fig. 10. — Turritella sapotensis n. sp., Sapote, Costa Rica. 

 Figs. 11, 12. — Nucula (Acila) isthmica n. sp. 



Plate XXVIII. — Fig. 1.^ — dementia dariensis Conr. 



Fig. 2. — Pecten scissuratus Dall. Typical form from Santo Domingo. 



Fig. 3. — Pilar cora n. sp. 



Fig. 4. — Pecten effossus n. sp. 



Fig. 5. — Pecten scissuratus Dall. Santo Domingo, 



Fig. 6. — Pecten ejfossus n. sp. 



Fig. 7. — Pecten toulce n. sp. 



Fig. 8. — Chione tegulum n. sp. 



Fig. 9. — Glycymeris carbasina n. sp. 



Fig. 10. — Glycymeris canalis n. sp. ■ 



Fig. 11. — Cardium stiriatum n. sp. 



Plate XXIX. — Figs. 1, 2. — Ostrea gatunensis n- sp. 




374 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



May 2. 

 Edwin G. Conklin, Ph.D., Vice-President, in the Chair. 



Thirty-one persons present. 



Dr. Henry Tucker having taken the Chair, Dr. Conklin made a 

 communication on the Zoological Station at Naples and the Zoological 

 Congress at Graz, with illustrations. (No abstract.) 



May 16. 

 Milton J. Greenman, M.D., in the Chair. 



Ninety-six persons present. 



Philip P. Calvert, Ph.D., gave an account of a year's sojourn in 

 Costa Rica, illustrated by lantern slides prepared from photographs 

 taken by Mrs. Calvert. 



A paper entitled "Some Aboriginal Sites of Mississippi River," by 

 Clarence B. Moore, was accepted for publication in the Journal. 



Henry Morris, M.D., 



H. C. Meyer, 



G. Carl Huber were elected members. 



The following were elected correspondents: 

 Edmund Beecher Wilson, of New York; 



David Starr Jordan, of Leland Stanford, Jr. University, California;. 

 Jacques Loeb, of New York; 

 Thomas Wayland Vaughan, of Washington; 

 William Bullock Cark, of Baltimore. 



The following were ordered to be printed: 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 375 



THE LYEIFOEM ORGANS AND TACTILE HAIRS OF ARANEADS. 



BY NORMAN EUGENE m'iNDOO. 



Introduction and Methods 375 



A. The Lyriform Organs 37& 



I. Morphology 376 



1. Structure 376 



2. Disposition 380 



(a) Theridium tepidariorum Koch 380 



(b) Other Species 385 



(c) Individual and Sexual Variations 395 



(d) Conclusions 396 



3. Discussion 398 



(a) Disposition 398 



(b) Structure 399 



(c) Disposition in Other Orders of Arachnids 400 



(d) Phylogeny 401 



II. Physiology 402 



4. Experiments 402 



(a) Olfactory Sense 402 



(b) Hearing 405 



(c) Function of the Lyriform Organs 406 



(1) Temperature Sense 409 



5. Discussion ? 410 



(a) Function of the Lyriform Organs 410 



(b) Olfactory Experiments 410 



(c) Sense of Hearing 411 



B. The Tactile Hairs 413 



Bibliography 415 



Explanation of Plates XXX-XXXIII... 416 



Introduction and Methods. 



Since the discovery of the lyriform organs in 1878 only two impor- 

 tant papers have appeared in regard to them. The object of this 

 present paper has been to make an accurate and careful study of their 

 morphology and physiology. The tactile hairs were later taken up 

 in connection with the lyriform organs because their innervation 

 was very similar to that of the latter structures. 



The work has been prosecuted under the direction of Professor 

 Montgomery, to whom I am indebted not only for the majority of my 

 specimens, but also for suggestions and kindly criticisms which have 

 made this work possible. He suggested this subject because these 

 organs are so little known. The exotic species were kindly sent by 

 Dr. Purcell, of South Africa; by Dr. Petrunkevitch, of Yale University^ 

 and by Mr. Nathan Banks, of the U. S. National Museum. The 




:376 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [May, 



•experimental work was done at the Marine Biological Laboratory at 

 Woods Hole from June 7 to September 20, 1910. 



In regard to the methods for preparing sections, after the legs had 

 been removed from the spiders, they were cut into short pieces and 

 then were fixed a few hours in either strong Flemming's solution or 

 in Carnoy's fluid, the latter being the modified form of equal parts of 

 absolute alcohol, glacial acetic acid and chloroform with corrosive 

 sublimate to excess. Carnoy's fluid was the better of the two fixatives 

 and my best sections were obtamed by leaving the material in the 

 fluid over night. The material was dehydrated in the ordinary way 

 in alcohols but was cleared by using the sinking method in cedar oil. 

 It was embedded about an hour in hard paraffin (54° C.) On account 

 ♦of the hard cuticula perfect serial sections were impossible, although 

 good sections were had in two ways: (1) After fixation the material 

 was left in a solution of equal parts of 70 per cent, alcohol and glycerin 

 two or three weeks; (2) The material was fixed immediately after 

 moulting. The latter method was the better one for the cuticula was 

 very soft and thin. The sections were cut ten microns thick and were 

 .stained with Delafield's haematoxylin and eosin. 



In preparing the external surfaces for the study of the disposition 

 «of the lyriform organs the following method was pursued: A large 

 :slit was made on the dorsal side of the abdomen of the specimens, 

 then they were dropped into a cold solution of caustic potash. In 

 .this solution the adults remained from six to thirty-six hours, the 

 time depending on the size of the individual; for the spiderlings one 

 liour was sufficient time. After being removed from the caustic 

 potash solution all the internal disintegrated tissues were carefully 

 removed with a camel's hair brush and water. Now the "skins" 

 were permanently mounted between two cover slides in a one-fifth 

 saturated solution of potassium acetate. Such a solution gave the 

 proper refractive index so that the slits appeared more or less trans- 

 parent while the surrounding cuticula was usually darker. The two 

 ■cover slides were held together with a solution of asphaltum. For 

 the dark colored specimens bright day light was used, but for the 

 .light colored ones a strong yellow artificial light was the only one 

 which was satisfactory. 



A. The Lyriform Organs. 



I. MORPHOLOGY, 



1. Structure of Lyriform Organs. 

 A lyriform organ is a cuticular structure peculiar to arachnids, 

 •composed usually of several single slits which lie side by side and 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 377 



more or less parallel with each other. This group of slits is generally 

 surrounded by a border (fig. 536)^, which is nothing more than a 

 difference in pigmentation, that gives the lyre-shape to the organ. 

 Inside the border the pigmentation is usually much lighter than out- 

 side, but sometimes the reverse occurs. Hence with considerable 

 magnification these organs appear as light or dark spots while the 

 slits inside appear almost transparent. The superficial appearance 

 of a slit reminds one of a long slightly bent spindle which has an 

 opening or dilatation (di.) at the centre or nearer one end than the 

 other (fig. 53). 



Lyriform organs may be divided into compound and simple organs. 

 A compound organ contains four or more single slits, which may 

 either be enclosed by a common border or each slit may be surrounded 

 by its own border; in the latter case if the borders are not joined with 

 each other, then the structure may be called a diffused organ; some- 

 times the border is entirely absent. A compound organ never exceeds 

 more than thirty slits and the average for Theridium tepidariorum 

 is ten, but the number containing four, five or six is comparatively 

 small. A simple organ contains either two or three single slits, arovmd 

 all of which there is a common definite border. 



A cross-section of a lyriform organ shows that it may sometinies be 

 located on a slight elevation or at other times in a slight depression, 

 but in either case the cuticula at this place is considerably thicker 

 and sometimes twice as thick as at other places. Fig. 1 shows this 

 very well. This drawing represents about one-third of the entire 

 cross-section of the trochanter of a mature male Agalena ncevia just 

 moulted. The cuticula (cu.) is only diagrammatic as taken from 

 various species, but here its thickness represents its greatest develop- 

 ment at any time in this species. The nerve (N.) is drawn in the 

 location it holds when its branch (N. b.) penetrates the hypodermal 

 basement membrane (b. m.), 220 microns in front of this locality 

 where the nerve branch just begins to leave the nerve the latter is 

 much nearer the centre of the leg. The sense cells (s. c.) are shown in 

 their natural positions but they have been reconstructed from nine 

 sections just in front of where the nerve branch enters the hypodermis. 

 All the other parts are taken from only one section in front of the organ. 

 In this drawing one notices that some of the slits pass entirely through 

 the cuticula, some two-thirds through, and others show only a slight 

 indentation. This means that the section passed exactly through 



^The figures are numbered consecutively on Plates XXX-XXXIII. 

 25 




378 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



the dilatation in the case of the first, near the dilatation of the second, 

 and only across the ends of the slits in the last. Hence the deeper 

 the opening the nearer the section passed to the dilatation. Thus 

 the internal cavity of a slit may be represented by the diagram (fig. 4), 

 which shows it to have the form of a flattened funnel with a central 

 enlargement. At least three distinct layers are discernible in the 

 cuticula, but they are not shown in fig. 1. 



The hypodermis (hyp.), usually twice as thick as the cuticula, lies 

 just beneath the latter. Its long cylindrical cells stand at right angles 

 to its outer membrane (o. m.) and to the basement membrane (b. m.). 

 The outer membrane is very thin and never shows any nuclei, while 

 the basement membrane is much thicker and reveals several elongate 

 nuclei (b. m. n.). Directly beneath and on either side near the organ 

 these hypodermal cells appear to be vacuolated at their bases, while 

 at some distance from the organ they are not vacuolated. With Dela- 

 field's hsematoxylin and eosin the cell walls and cytoplasm stain very 

 faintly, but the nuclei stand out very conspicuously, and nucleoli 

 are very numerous. There are always just as many sense cells (s. c.) 

 as there are slits in the organ ; if the slits are few in number the sense 

 cells lie at the base of the hypodermis directly beneath the organ. If 

 the slits are many then there is not enough space just beneath the 

 organ, so the sense cells are scattered along the basement membrane 

 of the hypodermis toward the nerve as seen in the drawing. Each 

 sense cell is always as large and sometimes three times as large as any 

 hypodermal cell. It is invariably spindle-shaped with one of its 

 poles running to the nerve of the leg and the other pole connecting 

 with the dilatation (di.) of its respective slit. The nuclei are usually 

 two or three times as large as those of the hypodermal cells and stain 

 slightly darker, although sometimes both kinds of nuclei have the 

 same dimensions and degree of staining capacity when it is difficult 

 to distinguish the two kinds of cells unless one can readily see their 

 walls. Moreover, most sense cells have at least at one end of their 

 nuclei aggregations (ag. cyt.) of dense staining cytoplasm, which does 

 not occur in the hypodermal cells. Also each sense cell has at least 

 one very large nucleolus besides the numerous smaller ones and its 

 cytoplasm stains slightly darker. Therefore, when we consider all 

 these differences, we see that the sense cells are different from ordinary 

 hypodermal cells, but since in many cases these differences are very 

 difficult to distinguish, as with those small sense cells just beneath 

 the organ in the drawing, we must conclude that sense cells are nothing 

 more than modified hypodermal cells which have taken on a different 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 379 



function. In the specimens just moulted the sensory fibers were 

 never connected with the dilatations (di.) of the slits, merely because 

 they apparently had not had sufficient time for regeneration since the 

 casting of the old skin. But in specimens six or seven hours after 

 moulting a few of these connections were noticed, while in individuals 

 with thick cuticula many such connections were observed. Fig. 3 

 shows two of these sense cells as they actually occur in a section of 

 the trochanter of Th. tepidariorum six or seven hours after moulting. 

 Here the cuticula is broken as usual, but one nerve fibre connects with 

 its dilatation, the other one has either been broken loose or has not 

 yet had time to join its dilatation since moulting. 



In good serial sections the nerve of the leg is very distinct and 

 branches from it can very readily be traced to the lyriform organs. 

 Within these branches the nerve fibres can quite easily be traced to 

 the sense cells. Usually the nerve is found near the axis of the leg, 

 but in some cases it lies closer to the hypodermis as shown in fig. 1. 

 Both the nerve and its branches are enclosed by a neurilemma (neu.) 

 whose walls show numerous nuclei (n. neu.). Internal to this neuri- 

 lemma the fibres are shown in cross section as the clear spaces with 

 here and there a cross section of a tolerably deep staining nucleus, 

 probably a neuroglia nucleus (neu. n.). These nuclei are about one- 

 third as large as those of the hypodermal cells; their nucleoli are 

 generally arranged aroimd the periphery and their chromatin-network 

 as in the other kinds of nuclei is rather difficult to see. The network 

 (neu. w.) of the nerve is probably the walls of these neuroglia cells. 



I was able to trace the innervation of a few of the single isolated 

 slits. Fig. 5, drawn from two consecutive sections of Th. tepidario- 

 rum six or seven hours after moulting, shows the sense cell with its; 

 fibre connecting with the dilatation of the slit. This cell has a 

 similar position, shape, size and structure to one of those belonging to< 

 an organ. 



At certain places in the legs the muscles occupy almost all the space 

 surrounded by the hypodermis, but generally near the lyriform organs, 

 they are not so extensive. At almost any place one may choose at 

 least three or four such muscles (m. b.) as the one shown in the drawing 

 may be readily seen. The single walled sarcolemma (sar.) surrounds, 

 many muscle bimdles, each one of which reveals either two or three 

 nuclei (m. nuc.) lying in the sarcoplasm. 



Each leg possesses a large artery (art.) which usually lies against 

 or near the nerve. It has a double wall which often shows nuclei. 

 .Two large venous sinuses (v. sin.) are always present, one on the 




380 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [May, 



ventral and the other on the dorsal side. In fact each one seems to lie 

 directly beneath a lyriform organ. The blood plasm (b. p.) and blood 

 corpuscles (b. c.) can readily be distinguished in both the artery 

 and sinuses. 



The connective tissue (con. t.) which stains very faintly occupies 

 all the remaining space in the leg. Its nuclei (con. t. n.) which are 

 very conspicuous are about one-half as large as those of the hypo- 

 dermis. 



Fig. 2 is a longitudinal-transverse diagram of the distal end of a 

 femur showing the anatomy of the leg with the innervation of the 

 lyriform organs, the fixed tactile hairs (t. h.) and the muscles which 

 control the movable tactile hairs (mov. h.). 



2. Disposition, 

 (a) Theridium tepidariorum Koch. 



In making a comparative study of the lyriform organs of Araneads, 

 I have used thirty-nine different species representing twenty-seven 

 of the thirty-eight families recognized by Simon (1892). Since 

 Th. tepidariorum is most conveniently studied, I shall describe its 

 lyriform organs in detail and then state the variations found in the 

 other species after the explanation of the table on page 394. See 

 figs. 13 and 14. 



The legs and palps may be divided for description into four surfaces. 

 The organs, to begin with the one on the coxa of each leg and palp, 

 may be numbered from 1 to 13 with No. 13 on the metatarsus of each 

 leg. In Th. tepidariorum there is a constant number of thirteen 

 organs on each leg; four of this thirteen are on the dorsal, three on 

 the posterior, two on the anterior, and four on the ventral surface. 

 Each palp has only seven organs, three of which are on the dorsal and 

 the other four are on the ventral surface. Each cheliceron has a 

 constant number of four organs, No. 14 and 15 of which lie on the 

 ventral and No. 16 and 17 on the dorsal surface. There is always a 

 constant number of two organs located on the dorsal side of the pedicle, 

 one of these may be called No. 18. The single isolated slits are found 

 more or less regularly distributed on all the appendages, sternum, 

 cephalothoracic shield and on the ventral side of the abdomen (figs. 

 13, 14). 



Every organ has a constant position except the three on the tro- 

 chanter and the one on the coxa. The latter organ occurs either on 

 the ventral or posterior side of the joint. The organs on the tro- 

 chanter rotate around the segment and sometimes the same organ 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 381 



may be found on either the ventral or dorsal surface in two different 

 legs as organ No. 2 on the first and third leg (figs. 13, 14). Organ 

 No. 3 may occur on either the anterior or posterior side of the tro- 

 chanter as on the second and first legs. Also No. 4 may lie on either 

 the dorsal or ventral surface as in the first and third legs. 



Organ No. 1 (figs. 13, 16) is a simple structure of three slits on 

 the first three legs while on the fourth there are only two slits in it. 

 These slits have about the same dimensions and the dilatations are 

 nearer the proximal end of the organ. The distal end of the slits 

 never come in contact with the line of articulation. No 2 varies 

 slightly in shape, number and position of the slits. In fig. 52 the 

 organ is from the ventral side of the first leg, while in fig. 53 the 

 organ from the anterior side of the second leg shows the slight 

 variation. The distal end never crosses the line of articulation. 

 No. 3 is more or less diffused (fig. 15), but on the first and second 

 legs the border completely surrounds the organ. Instead of the 

 long axis of No. 4 lying parallel with the long axis of the^leg, it 

 lies transversely (fig. 30) and it always lies against the line of articu- 

 lation and sometimes one-half way across it. No. 5 on the ventral 

 surface at the extreme distal end of the femur always lies with 

 its distal end touching the line of articulation, but very seldom 

 crosses it. The convex part of the organ and the shorter slits inva- 

 riably face the posterior surface of the leg (figs. 13, 24). No. 6 is 

 like No. 5 except it lies on the dorsal side of the femur and usually 

 one-half way across the line of articulation (fig. 14). Its concave 

 side and shorter slits face the anterior surface of the leg. Organs 

 No. 7 and 8 (figs. 13, 14, 58) are always found on the anterior surface 

 of the patella. No. 7 (58a) lies almost equidistant from either 

 end of the joint near No. 8 (586) and always between the latter and 

 the dorsal side. Its size is almost one-half that of No. 8 and 

 its slits are very long and extremely narrow. No. 8 lies nearer 

 the distal end of the patella, usually very near the Hne of articu- 

 lation, but never against it. Its slits are much longer than those 

 in No. 7 and the smaller ones face the ventral surface as in No. 7. 

 One finds organ No. 9 at the distal end of the patella on the dorsal 

 side about 135 degrees from organ No. 7. It never touches the line 

 of articulation and is usually some distance from it. Its apex points 

 toward the angle formed by the line of articulation with the edge of 

 the anterior side. Its shorter slits always face the anterior surface 

 of the leg. One or two or no single isolates slits usually accompany 

 it and these occur near the concave side which faces the anterior 




382 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



surface of the leg (figs. 14, 18). Nos. 10 and 11 (figs. 13, 57), like Nos. 

 7 and 8, are paired, and they occur on the ventral surface at the 

 extreme distal end of the tibia. No. 10 lies mostly across the first 

 line of articulation (1. 1. a.) with its apex pointing toward the articu- 

 lation. Its shorter slits always face the anterior surface of the leg 

 and it invariably lies between this surface and organ No. 11. The 

 latter organ lies only slightly over the first line of articulation with 

 its apex directed from the articulation. Its shorter slits face the 

 anterior surface of the leg or exactly toward the apex of No. 10. 

 Organ No. 12 lies at the extreme distal end of the tibia on the dorsal 

 surface at the edge of the anterior side. It lies two-thirds across the 

 first line of articulation with its apex touching the second line of 

 articulation (2. 1. a.). Its shorter slits and greater concave side face 

 the anterior side of the leg (figs. 14, 45). Organ No. 13 found on 

 the posterior surface of the metatarsus covers most of the space at 

 the extreme distal end. The slits are transverse to the axis of the 

 leg a;id they extend around about 120 degrees of the joint. The 

 border is entirely absent. The shorter slits lie on the edge of the 

 dorsal surface (figs. 14, 10). 



The organs on the palps have a disposition similar to those of the 

 legs. Their shape is also similar but the number of their slits is 

 less. Organ No. 1 has only two slits instead of three (figs. 13, 27). 

 No. 2 lying on the ventral surface of the trochanter has only seven 

 slits as compared with 15 to 18 found in the same organ on the legs 

 (figs. 13, 26). No. 3 is absent. No. 4 on the dorsal surface of the 

 trochanter has seven or eight slits and its shape is very similar to 

 that of No. 2 (fig. 14). Nos. 5 and 6 have seven slits instead of 

 eleven as on the legs (figs. 13, 14, 38). No. 7 is missing. The shape 

 of No. 8 is more like that of No. 7 of the legs, but its arrangement of 

 slits and disposition correspond to that of No. 8 of the legs. It has 

 only ten slits while on the legs there are twenty-one (figs. 13, 23). 

 No. 9 has the same number of slits as has that organ on the l^gs, and 

 it is as large as the same structure found on the second and third 

 pairs of legs, it never has any isolated slits (figs. 14, 17). All the 

 other organs on the palps are absent. 



On the anterior and on the ventral extreme distal surfaces of the 

 metatarsus of each leg, there is a single large slit. It may or may 

 not to/ich the line of articulation and its long axis is not quite parallel 

 with the axis of the leg (figs. 13a, 146, 31). On each the anterior and 

 dorsal surface of all the legs and palps there is a transverse single slit 

 near the distal end of the tarsus (figs. 13c, 14c?, 32a, b, c). On the 




19T1.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 383 



ventral surface of the palps and legs single isolated slits occur only 

 on the sixth joint of the left palp (figs. 13e, 34a) ; on the femur of the 

 first and second legs (figs. 13m, 37a), and on the tibia of the third leg 

 (fig. 14). On the dorsal surface of both the palps and legs the single 

 slits are much more numerous and are arranged more or less in regular 

 rows. Thus we see several on the sixth and fifth joints of the palps 

 (figs. 14Z, 346). On the legs they occur as follows — a row on each 

 femur (figs. 13, 14w, 376) ; three or four irregularly scattered on the 

 patella of the third and fourth legs (fig. 13) ; on the tibia of the first, 

 second and fourth legs a row (figs. 13, 14/, 34c); only two on each 

 of the metatarsi of the first, third and fourth legs (figs. 13, 14). Most 

 all of these are parallel with the axis of the leg. On either the dorsal 

 or anterior surface of the trochanter of the second, third and some- 

 times the fourth leg, there are two or more isolated single slits 

 (fig. 14). 



Organs No. 14 and 15 lie on the outer edge of the ventral side at 

 the distal end of the chelicera. They are always paired and form a 

 right angle with each other (fig. 13). Organ No. 14 (fig. 51a) is the 

 larger and lies near the outer edge. Each organ has four slits, each 

 of which has its own border. All of these borders are more or less 

 connected with each other. Likewise organs No. 16 and 17 are 

 paired, but are located on the outer edge of the dorsal surface at the 

 distal end of the chelicera (fig. 14). No. 16, the larger (fig. 55a), lies 

 the nearer the outer edge. It always has an associated single slit 

 (fig. 55c). Each organ has six slits whose borders are similar to those 

 of Nos. 14 and 15. On both the dorsal and ventral surfaces of the 

 chelicera several small isolated slits lie along the outer edges (figs. 

 13.^, 14, 50). 



Organ No. 18 is one of the paired structures found on the dorsal sur- 

 face of the pedicle near the distal end. Each organ lies near the outer 

 edge and has transverse slits, but the longer axis of the organ lies 

 almost parallel with the axis of the pedicle. The diameter of the slits 

 is very great and each slit has its own border, but all these borders 

 are joined at their sides while the ends are free and do not pass around 

 the ends of the slits as usual, but connect with these ends (figs. 13, 

 41). 



Several scattered slits lie near the outer edges of the maxillae (figs. 

 13/i, 39). Thirty-eight isolated slits of irregular sizes are found on 

 the sternum arranged in a V-shaped figure with the apex of the V at 

 the distal end of the sternal plate. Each row, which is composed 

 of three or four groups more or less irregularly arranged and which 




384 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



contains about one-half the total sternal slits, is midway between the 

 median line of the sternal plate and the outer edge of the sternum 

 (fig. 13). In the group of five slits (figs. 13i, 42) no two are of the 

 same size or shape. The first and third largest ones do not have any 

 distinct dilatation, while the other three do. The second largest slit 

 besides having its border also has a much darker colored circular disc 

 which lies across the border at its middle. 



On the ventral surface of the abdomen, we find a large isolated slit 

 on either side of the epigynum near the lower end of the lung-book 

 (figs. 13/, 44a). Lower down at the same distance from the edge of 

 the abdomen midway between the epigynum and spinnerets, there is 

 another pair of large isolated slits. Just in front of the spiracle 

 there is another pair slightly smaller than the two preceding pairs 

 (fig. 13). On the left spinneret of the first pair there are three small 

 isolated glits (figs. ISk, 446). 



At the right posterior side of the cephalothoracic shield just above 

 where the right fourth leg is attached there are two minute indistinct 

 isolated slits (fig. 14). 



The lyriform organs found in the seventeen day (just hatched) 

 spiderling of Th. tepidariorum have the same disposition as the cor- 

 responding ones in the adults. But there are none on the first joint 

 of the palps, the spinnerets, maxilla?, labium, sternum, cephalothoracic 

 shield and near the epigynum. In other places the isolated slits are 

 very scarce. As compared with the organs of the adult female, those 

 of the spiderling have almost proportionately the same size, but since 

 the number of slits in the latter is about one-half that of the former, 

 the slits are proportionately larger. In order to compare the number 

 of slits in each organ of the spiderling with that of the adult female, 

 I shall indicate the number of each organ with a Roman letter and the 

 number of slits in it with an Arabic figiu-e. In each case the number 

 of adult slits appears first and of the juvenile second. 



Palps.— 1 2-0; II 7-5; III 0-0; IV 7-5; V and VI 7-2 each; 

 VII 0-0; VIII 10-4, but the latter does not have the same shape as 

 former; IX 7-4; all others are absent as in the adult, but the large 

 slits on both palps and legs marked a, h, c, and d are present as in the 

 female. 



Legs. — I 3-2; II 15-5, but the latter are all long and of equal length; 

 III 7-0 ; I^' 14-5, latter are all long and of equal length ; V and VI 

 11-4 each, latter four all long and of equal length; VII 17-8; VIII 

 21-10; IX 6-3, in latter no isolated slits ever accompany organ as in 

 the former; X 6-2; XI 11-6, in latter slits are about same length and 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 385 



are all long; XII 9-2, latter two are long ones; XIII 17-12; XIV 

 8-4; XV and XVI 4-2 each; XVII 6-2, young as adult with an asso- 

 ciated slit; XVIII 6-2. By referring to the table (p. 389) we see 

 that while the adult female has 60 compound organs, its young just 

 hatched has only 38. By counting all the slits enumerated above the 

 adult has a few more than twice as many as the young, then 

 by including the isolated slits in both we see as far as number is con- 

 cerned, that when the young are hatched the lyriform organs are 

 hardly one-half developed. Thus after hatching the slits in the organs 

 more than double themselves; organ No. 1 on the palps, the diffused 

 organ No. 3 on the legs and the majority of the isolated slits make 

 their appearance. 



(6) Other Species. 



In order to ascertain most of the variations fovmd in the other 

 species, reference is made to the tables on pp. 386-393. At the top of this 

 table the families are arranged as Simon recognizes them. Just 

 below the family names are entered the subfamilies, the generic and 

 specific names. The following abbreviations are employed: H, hun- 

 ters; S, snarers; T, tube-dwellers; the numbers 1 to 7 for the joints 

 of the legs correspond to coxa, trochanter, femur, patella, tibia, meta- 

 tarsus, and tarsus. Spinn., spinnerets; Cheh, chelicera; Max., maxilla; 

 Lab., labium; Stern., sternum; Fed., pedicle; Ceph. S., cephalo- 

 thoracic shield and Near Epigy., includes all the organs on the ven- 

 tral side of the abdomen, usually occuring near the epigynum ; C. O. 

 and S. O., compound and simple organs, and S. S., single slits. 

 Where only one segment is present in the spinnerets I have con- 

 sidered it the first one, although it may correspond to the second 

 or third in other cases. All the specimens were adults. The young 

 of Th. tepidariorum is entered only for comparison, but has not 

 been considered in the range or in the comparison of the adults. 

 The total includes all the organs and slits which could be found 

 on all the legs, palp, spinnerets, cheliceron, and maxilla on one side 

 of each specimen. Hence the total contains slightly more than one- 

 half the number for each individual. For the number of organs 

 the amount of error is probably not greater than two per cent., 

 while for the single slits not more than ten per cent. The latter 

 possibility of error is largely due to the three following reasons: (1) 

 the slits when placed in profile are never discernible; (2) on account of 

 the transparency; (3) the caustic potash treatment often causes 

 artificial slits and no doubt often destroys some of those present. 




386 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[May, 




1911.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



387 




388 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[May, 




1911.3 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



389 




390 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[May,- 




1911.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



391 




392 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[May, 




1911.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



393 



26 




394 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



The following are those variations which could not be placed in 

 the table. (1) Organ No. 1 on the coxa of the legs in Moggridgea 

 and a few others have six or seven slits (fig. 35). (2) On the tro- 

 chanter of the palps in one-half the cases where two or three organs 

 are present at least one is always and sometimes two are diffused. 

 (3) Concerning the same joint of the first leg, there are 18 species with 

 one diffused organ, 10 species with two diffused organs; for the second 

 leg 23 species each with one diffused organ, 7 species each with two 

 such organs; for the third leg one diffused structure in each of 17 

 species and 5 species each with two such organs; for the fourth leg 

 in each of 14 species one such organ, while each of 9 species has two 

 diffused organs. On the legs a diffused organ never occurs unless 

 at least two organs are present, and two diffused organs are never 

 seen unless at least three in all are observed. (4) In all species with 

 a low total number of organs, No. 5 and 6 on the femur never have 

 many more than three slits. (5) The paired organs No. 7 and 8 are 

 always present, while in six species No. 9 is absent on the first and 

 third legs; it is missing, however, in only three species on the second and 

 fourth legs. In Hermacha this organ on each leg is slightly diffused. 

 No. 7 and 8 in Caponia and Palpimanus are out of their ordinary 

 position. (6) On the fifth joint of the palp of the first five named 

 , species, there is a transverse organ (fig. 40) in the same position as 

 No. 13 on the metatarsus of the legs. In the first four species three 

 or four longitudinal organs occur besides this transverse organ. All 

 of these organs are proportionately large as represented by those of 

 Moggridgea (figs. 25, 40, 48, 56). The largest of these (fig. 56) has 

 thirty slits, the greatest number found in any organ of any species. 

 Fig. 12 shows the large organ on the dorsal side of the tibia of 

 Uroctea. The other three on this joint are very small. (7) On the 

 sixth joint of the palps the large transverse slits called c and d were 

 observed in only a few of the species. (8) On the legs the majority 

 of the species have at least one of the two large slits called a and b. 

 In several cases one of these slits becomes a simple organ and in a 

 few cases as in Evagrus or Atypus one has changed into a compound 

 organ, while the other one remains a simple organ. Hence, on the 

 sixth joint in the first leg of Atypus and on the fourth leg of Evagrus 

 there are two compound and one simple organ. As usual one of the 

 former is transverse and the other two are longitudinal. (9) Among 

 the 39 species only Hypochilus has organs on the tarsi. These are 

 small transverse organs located at the extreme distal end always on 

 the anterior side (fig. 49). In almost every species there is at least 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 395 



one, but in most cases two transverse single slits like c and d. Be- 

 sides these in many species there are several other smaller transverse 

 slits. These usually lie near the larger ones but not so near the distal 

 end. (10) Fig. 29 shows three slits and three hairs found on 

 the first joint of the spinnerets of Evagrus. Organs on the spinnerets 

 occur in only five species. In Hytiotes there is a small transverse 

 compound organ at the base of the spinnerets; at the same place in 

 the male of Troglohyphantes and Epeira this organ is transverse and 

 simple (fig. 19). On the ventral extreme distal end of the first 

 joint of Mimetus there is a transverse organ of nine slits; at the 

 same location on the foremost spinneret of Tama there is a large 

 transverse organ with eleven slits (fig. 33 j. (11) For the chelicera, 

 fig. 28 shows two of the four simple organs found in Dictyna. Here 

 the border is entirely absent. In Hyptiotes (fig. 20) the border sur- 

 rounds all the slits of each organ. Fig. 11 shows the very large 

 organ in Moggridgea. (12) Fig. 21 represents two of the thirteen 

 slits on the labium of Ariadna. (13) Whenever the number of slits 

 on the sternum is approximately 24, they are arranged in groups 

 of threes. In such cases the proximal end of each coxa faces one 

 of these eight groups. Whenever the number is much smaller than 

 24, they are not arranged in groups, but are scattered irregularly. 

 Whenever the number is much more than 24, then they are grouped 

 as in Th. tepidariorum. (14) Fig. 36 shows two of the twenty very 

 small slits on the pedicle of Moggridgea. (15) When the minute slits 

 can be detected on the cephalothoracic shield they occur usually at 

 either side or directly in front of the pedicle. Fig. 46 shows three 

 taken from Ariadna. (16) Near the epigynum we have the follow- 

 ing : Fig. 22 shows two of the twelve scattered slits in the female of 

 Pholcus. These twelve are found on both sides of the epigynum a 

 little above the ones marked j in Th. tepidariorum. Fig. 54 shows a 

 group of these in Moggridgea. They are drawn much too close to- 

 gether. Fig. 43 represents the two diffused organs in front of th& 

 epigynum of Calculus, while fig. 47 shows one of the two organs in 

 front of the epigynum of Dysdera. In only a few cases have the two. 

 pairs of large slits been found which lie between the epigynum and, 

 spinnerets as shown in Th. tepidariorum. 



(c) Individual and Sexual Variations. 



For a study of the individual variation, I have used the fourth pair 

 of legs of ten males and ten females of Th. tepidariorum, thus making 

 forty legs in all. (Jrgan No. 1 in the females occurs nine times to 




396 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



only six in the males on the right side; on the left side ten times in 

 the females to nine times in the males. Organ No. 3 of the females 

 on both sides is much oftener diffused than is that of the males. The 

 only other striking difference is the greater number of isolated slits 

 on both legs of the females. In two cases in the males a simple organ 

 takes the place of a compound one, and in the legs on either side in 

 both sexes an organ is occasionally absent. In all other cases in which 

 I have carefully examined more than one specimen of the same species, 

 I have not found any individual variations of more importance than 

 the above. Hence we see that the organs are pretty constant on both 

 'Sides of the body in both sexes, while the number of single slits varies 

 considerably both individually and sexually. 



By carefully comparing the males and females of the same species 

 we see that there are no variations except what can be considered as 

 Individual variations. The only difference worth mentioning is the 

 great number of single slits on the last joint of the palps in the 

 males (fig. 9), while none or only a few are found at the same place 

 In the females. By referring to the totals in the table one sees that 

 the males of Th. tepidariorum and Phidippus have one compound 

 -organ less than the females ; the male of Pholcus two less ; the male of 

 Troglohyphantes three less; an^ equal number in both sexes of Linyphia; 

 the male of Lycosa lepida one more, and the male of Agalena three 

 more organs than the female. 



*{d) Conclusions. 



Now, to interpret the meaning of the totals in the table, it is evident 

 that relationships play no part at all, for there is a great range of 

 variation within a genus or family. Therefore these organs are not 

 useful for taxonomy. As already stated individual and sexual varia- 

 tions are very slight. Specific variations are also very slight as seen 

 in the two I^ycosas, and in the three species of Theridium. Generic 

 differences are not very great when the various genera have a similar 

 habitat, as in Moggridgea, Hermacha, and Evagrus; a less variation 

 between Tetragnatha and Epiera, but the same number of organs in 

 Dysdera and Ariadna; however when the habitat is dark and damp 

 the number of compound organs is usually much less as shown in the 

 linyphiid cave forms and in a linyphiid littoral form, Grammonota. 

 The most important variation in the morphology of the lyriform organs 

 can certainly be correlated with the method of capturing food. In 

 the manner of securing food, spiders are divided into three classes as 

 follows: (1) The hunters are those which wander about in search of 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 397 



food and when sufficiently close they jump and seize the prey. They 

 use no snares whatever in capturing food. (2) The snarers catch their 

 food with snares and never hunt for it. (3) The tube-dwellers run to 

 the entrance of their tubes in order to catch the prey. These three 

 classes in the table (pages 386-393) are referred to as H, S, and T. 

 The hunters without exception have more compound organs than 

 either the snarers or tube-dwellers. The average number of compound 

 and simple organs and single slits for the hunters is 61-3-100; for 

 the epigaean snarers 58-4-99, and for the littoral and cavernicolus 

 snarers 51-6-119; but for snarers of all kinds 56-4-105; for the tube- 

 dwellers 49-5-144. Hence the number of single slits in both hunters 

 and snarers is the same while the number of organs varies considerably. 

 The cave forms have a few more single slits than either the hunters 

 or epigsean snarers, but their number of organs is much reduced. The 

 tube-dwellers have the greatest number of single slits, but the fewest 

 organs of all. The range for the hunters is 69-51 c. o., 7-0 s. o., 

 375-34 s. s. ; for the epigsean snarers 66-49 c. o., 11-0 s. o., 241-18 

 s. s.; for the other snarers 59-42 c. o., 13-1 s. o., 217-51 s. s., but for 

 both kinds of snarers 66-42 c. o., 13-0 s. o., 241-18 s. s. and for the 

 tube-dwellers 50-48 c. o., 6-3 s. o., 237-60 s. s. The difference 

 between the maximum and minimum is practically the same between 

 the hunters, epigaean and cavernicolus snarers but when all the snarers 

 are compared with the hunters, the former vary much among them- 

 selves. The reason why there is such a' slight range among the tube- 

 dwellers is perhaps because Caponia, Ariadna and Dysdera are the 

 only forms included here.^ 



All true cave spiders are snarers and it is manifest that the more 

 they have become adapted to a subterranean life, the more their 

 lyriform organs have degenerated. Thus to arrange them according 

 to the degree of such an adaptability, we have the following series 

 with regard to the number of compound organs: Th. kentuckyense 

 with 59, Th. porteri 58, Erigone 52, Troglohyphantes 50, Linyphia 48 > 

 and Phanetta 42, of which series there is a gradation from the epigsean 

 Th. tepidariorum with 60 compound organs which nests in walls and 

 outhouses to Phanetta which is able to adapt itself to any place in a 



^ Calculus and Ammoxenus have not been included in the above comparison 

 because I have been unable to find any literature concerning their habitats. 

 Calculus bicolor, from South Africa, is a new species described by Purcell, and 

 its habits have not been described. Simon (1892) described for the first time 

 and created a new family for Ammoxenus from South Africa, but all he says 

 about the habitat is — "lis se trouvent k terre, dans les endroits decouverts, 

 et ils courent au soleil avec une telle rapidity qu'il est difficile de s'en saisir." 




398 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF P'lay, 



cave where the three following necessary requirements are present: 

 (1) Total darkness, (2) an even temperature and (3) a saturated 

 atmosphere. In Banta's (1907) cave work and my recent paper (1911) 

 on some cave arachnids, their habitat is briefly discussed. The first 

 three species may be found from twilight localities where food is very 

 abundant and where there is a considerable range in the annual 

 temperature and a daily range in the humidity to places in total 

 darkness where insects are rather scarce, and where there is only a 

 slight range in the temperature and humidity. These first three are 

 much larger in size, all the eyes are present and they are much darker 

 in color than are the last three. The fourth and fifth species are never 

 found in the twilight, but always where the three above necessary 

 requirements occur, although most abundantly where food is com- 

 paratively plentiful. The average color is rather light and the eyes 

 are partially or totally absent. Phanetta may be found in the same 

 localities as the above two species, but furthermore it is able to live 

 in any part of a cave if the three necessary reqiusites are present 

 regardless of the distance from the entrance or the paucity of the 

 insect food. Of the six species it is the smallest, lightest in color and 

 perhaps has the greatest percentage of totally blind individuals, 

 although in twenty-seven specimens Banta did not find any totally 

 devoid of eyes. Since Grammonota lives under wet eel grass in the 

 dark, its small number of organs probably can be explained in a 

 similar way. 



Now, since hunting spiders have the greatest number of lyriform 

 organs, and as these usually contain more slits than those of the 

 snarers or tube-dwellers, we must conclude that the method of cap- 

 turing food has brought about these changes in the number of organs. 



3. DisciLssion. 

 (a) Disposition. 



Bertkau (1878) was the first to notice some isolated slits grouped 

 together and located at the distal end of the segments in Aianeae. 

 Dahl (1883) first discovered and described the transverse organ No. 13 

 on the metatarsus. 8chimkewitsch (1884) was the first to observe 

 the isolated slits on the sternum but did not recognize them as lyri- 

 form organs. The next year (1885) the same author found eleven 

 organs on the legs and four on the palps of Epeira diademata, while 

 I have observed fourteen on the legs and six. on the palps of Epeira 

 m^rmorea. Wagner (1888) first saw the two organs on the pedicle 

 and the single slits near the spinnerets, but he did not recognize them 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 399 



as lyriform organs. Gaiibert (1890) described the disposition of the 

 lyriform organs and said that these structures were as characteristic 

 for arachnids as are the pectines for scorpions. He gave them the 

 appellation of "lyriform organs." In (1892) Gaubert worked on 

 several species and found the organs as follows: one on the coxa of 

 the legs and palps; three on the trochanter; two on the femur; three 

 on the patella; three on the tibia; one on the metatarsus; no organs 

 but occasionally isolated slits on the tarsus. He said that the four 

 pairs of legs have similar organs and the first four segments of the 

 palps have organs located like those of the legs. Therefore he was the 

 first to see organ No. 1 on the coxa, and he has seen all the organs 

 present on these appendages, but he failed to observe them elsewhere. 

 Hansen (1893) selected Epeira diademata Clerk cJ*, the same species 

 that Gaubert used, and searched for organs and slits which were over- 

 looked by the latter observer. Besides finding the thirteen organs 

 oifc each leg, some isolated slits, the organs on the palps, chelicera and 

 the slits on the sternum as pointed out by Gaubert, Hansen found 

 many isolated slits of various sizes irregularly distributed on the palps, 

 legs, chelicera, maxillae, labium, near the epigynum, on the spinnerets, 

 and on the cephalothoracic shield in much the same manner that I 

 have described. Thus he was the first to recognize the two organs 

 on the pedicle as lyriform organs and pointed out for the first time the 

 isolated slits near the epig5aium, on the spinnerets, labium and cephalo- 

 thoracic shield. 



My more comprehensive study of these structures has enabled me 

 to find all those organs pointed out by my predecessors, besides those 

 compound organs occasionally on the fifth joint of the palp, on the 

 tarsus of the legs and compound and simple organs on the spinnerets 

 and in front of the epigynum. 



{h) Structure. 



Bertkau (1878, 1885) described an enlargement at the middle of the 

 slit covered b}'' a fine membrane and connected with a nerve fibre. 

 Dahl described a vessel u^ider the transverse slits of organ No. 13. 

 Schimkewitsch says a lyriform organ has a chitinous coat which may 

 be incomplete and has edges which separate the parallel slits. He 

 describes the nerve fibres passing to the organ and their connection 

 with the ganglia (sense cells), but he failed to see the union of the 

 latter with the nerve "pedieux." Wagner states that these organs 

 present at the exterior a very thin membrane which afterwai-ds covers 

 the dilatations which are located at the middle of the slit. Gaubert 




400 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



has described the structure of an organ very nearly as I have, but 

 since his drawing is much too small and fails to give most of the details 

 one cannot gain from it the proper conception of such a structure. 

 He shows only six sense cells, all of which are at the base of the hypo- 

 dermis just beneath the organ. Also he connects the nerve fibres 

 with the dilatations, but he fails to show how the other end of the 

 sense cells connects with the nerve of the leg. 



(c) Disposition in other Orders of Arachnids. 



In regard to the lyriform orgkns of other orders of arachnids which 

 have been studied by Gaubert and Hansen, a brief summary is neces- 

 sary in order to understand the development of these structures 

 throughout the class of Arachnida. Gaubert failed to find any organs 

 in the Scorpions and Solifugids, and he saw only a small portion of the 

 organs present in the Pedipalps, Pseudoscorpions and Phalangids. 

 Hansen who examined more specimens and with greater care, found 

 the following in two species of different genera of the scorpions: 

 several isolated slits on the trochanter and femur of the legs and palps ; 

 numerous slits on the patella, tibia, and metatarsus of the legs. All 

 of these vary much in size and are irregularly scattered. Almost all 

 of these slits are parallel with the axis of the leg and the dilatation is 

 always at the proximal end. 



In short, Hansen has found the lyriform organs in one family, 

 Thelyphonidae, of the Pedipalps as follows: the legs and palps are 

 abundantly supplied with scattered slits and the only organ which 

 occurs is on the metatarsus and it is highly developed. The chelicera 

 have numerous slits; the cephalothoracic shield and sternum only a 

 few, while the dorsal and ventral sides of the abdomen have many. 

 In another family, Phrynidse, the legs besides having many slits also 

 have two organs on each trochanter. There are many slits on the 

 chelicera, dorsal and ventral sides of the abdomen and only a few on 

 the cephalothoracic shield. 



According to Hansen and Sorensen (1904) lyriform organs are 

 completely wanting in the order Palpigradj. 



Among the Solifugids Hansen has found only five scattered slits 

 on the last and fifteen on the first joint of the chelicera. These are 

 very different in size and are irregularly scattered. He says: "Un- 

 doubtedly we have here lyriform organs in a somewhat modified 

 shape." 



For the Pseudoscorpions Hansen states that only a few isolated 

 slits are found on most of the joints in the legs and palps, while an 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 401 



organ composed of five slits is found on the second joint of each species, 

 Chelicera and maxillae with only a few, both ventral and dorsal sides 

 of the abdomen and dorsal side of the cephalothorax with many small 

 scattered slits. 



Hansen and Sorensen stated that it was impossible to find lyriform 

 organs in the order Ricinulei. 



Concerning the Phalangids Hansen says that numerous isolated 

 slits of unequal lengths occur on the first three joints of the legs, third 

 joint of the palps, chelicera, ventral side of the abdomen, but only a 

 few on the cephalothorax and dorsal side of abdomen. 



Gaubert was unable to find any lyriform organs in the order of 

 Acarina. Hansen thought that he found some scattered, very tiny 

 slits on the shield and a most remarkable transverse slit on the legs 

 of one species. Thus he thmks that they appear as single slits in this, 

 family. 



To briefly summarize the discussions about the disposition of the 

 lyriform organs in all the orders of arachnids, we see that scorpions- 

 possess many irregularly scattered slits of various sizes on the legs 

 and palps, but no compound organs. For the family, Thelyphonidse,. 

 of the pedipalps there are many scattered slits on all the appendages, 

 a few on both sides of the cephalothorax, while many are scattered all 

 over the abdomen. In this family there is only one compound organ 

 on each leg, while in the family, Phrynida^, there are two compound 

 organs on each leg besides the many slits. For the solifugids the 

 only signs of lyriform organs are a few scattered slits on the chelicera. 

 The pseudoscorpions have only one organ of five slits on each leg and 

 scattered slits occur everywhere. The phalangids have only niunerous. 

 slits scattered everywhere; the acarinids have nothing more than a 

 few scattered slits, and no slits have ever been found in the Palpigradi 

 and Ricinulei* 



(d) Phytogeny. 



Thus it is clear that the development of the lyriform organs in all 

 the orders except Araneae is in a very primitive state. In the degree 

 of development perhaps the pedipalps stand next to the araneads for 

 some of them have two compound organs on each leg, while Palpi- 

 gradi and Ricinulei have these structures totally absent. It seems, 

 probable that at one time all kinds of lyriform organs were nothing 

 more than minute slits irregularly scattered over all parts of the entire 

 body as seen in some of the lower orders. Then when organs made 

 their appearance the tiny slits on the dorsal side of the body dis- 




402 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



appeared as illustrated in the pedipalps. This is further exemplified 

 with the araneads in which one never finds isolated slits on the dorsal 

 side of the abdomen and none on the dorsal side of the cephalothorax 

 except a few that still persist on the cephalothoracic shield. In some 

 species among the araneads the single slits seem to be as numerous as 

 ever, but in all cases they have become more or less regularly distri- 

 buted. Where the single slits are as numerous as ever, then the 

 compound and simple organs must be entirely new formations. 



Among the lower orders the range is from a total absence of either 

 isolated slits or organs for the entire animal to many single slits plus 

 two compound organs for each leg. Among the aranea) the range is 

 from 41 c. o., 12 s. o., 82 s. s. to 69 c. o., 2 s. o., 64 s. s. The total 

 number of slits in all these organs plus the scattered ones of the latter 

 aranead is probably twice that of the former. According to this the 

 development of the lyriform organs in the latter is twice that of the 

 former, while in the lower orders this ratio is doubled many times. 



II. PHYSIOLOGY. 



4. Experiments. 

 (a) Olfactory Sense. 



Triangular experimental cases were constructed by using three 

 pieces of glass, two of which were 10 cm. wide by 13 cm. long and the 

 other 6 cm. wide by 10 cm. long. Cheese cloth served as a bottom. 

 The glass and cheese cloth were held together with adhesive tape. 

 A top of cardboard was laid over each case to prevent the escape of the' 

 specimen. Cases of the same dimensions except height were used 

 for the attiids. These were only one centimetre high with a glass top. 

 The extreme ends of the experimental cases rested on two supports 

 which were placed on sawdust, the latter being used to break the jar 

 caused by heavy walking. A screen was placed in front of the cases 

 to prevent the spiders from seeing the observer. 



On account of their size, abundance, and because their webs did 

 jiot interfere with the experiments Lycosa lepida, L. scutulata, and 

 Phidippus purpuratus were employed. However in one test Pardosa 

 lapidicina Emert. was used. In all cases the spiders were brought 

 immediately fresh from the fields, then and each day afterwards they 

 were fed and watered. They were experimented with in series of 

 fourteen in which each specimen was tested each day with five or six 

 different odors for four or five days. The first experiments were made 

 with the following five oils; clove, thyme, wintergreen, peppermint 

 and bergamot, each of which was kept securely in a small vial. The 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 403 



spiders were left undisturbed in the cases over night. The next 

 morning if they w^re perfectly quiet a vial of oil was placed directly 

 beneath and within one centimetre of each individual. Time was 

 counted in seconds. An intermission of forty-five minutes elapsed 

 between any two tests of various odors. The following are the average 

 results of the tests for four or five d'ays with the above five oils. 



Clove. — Most specimens moved away slowly; a few moved away 

 quickly; some moved only slightly; several worked palps, chelicera 

 and legs; one rubbed palps and two threw up front legs quickly. 

 Time ranged from 3 to 90 sec. with an average of 27 sec. for L. lepida; 

 for Phidippus from 3 to 32 sec. with an average of 13 sec. Forty-one 

 specimens were used. 



Thyme. — Almost one-half moved away slowly; the same number 

 away quickly ; the remainder either raised up quickly, threw up front 

 legs, worked palps and chelicera or rubbed their legs together. Time 

 for L. lepida 2 to 95 sec. with an average of 10 sec. ; for Phidippus 2 to 

 15 sec. with an average of 4 sec. Forty-two specimens were used. 



Wintergreen. — ^The majority moved away slowly; several away 

 quickly; several arose quickly; a few worked palps, chelicera and 

 legs ; one lay down over the odor, and one rubbed legs together. Time 

 for L. lepida 2 to 80 sec. with an average of 11 sec; for Phidippus 3 

 to 15 sec. with an average of 7 sec. Forty-eight specimens were 

 employed. 



Peppermint. — All either moved away quickly or arose quickly and 

 then moved away slowly; some of these after moving away worked 

 palps, chelicera and legs; three threw ujj front legs; one lifted feet 

 high; one rubbed legs and chelicera together. Time for L. lepida 

 2 to 13 sec. with an average of 6 sec. ; for Phidippus 2 to 7 sec. with an 

 average of 3 sec. Forty-eight individuals were used. 



Bergamot. — The majority moved away slowly; the remainder 

 either raised up quickly or moved away quickly; only a few worked 

 palps, chelicera and legs. Time for L. lepida 3 to 45 sec. with an 

 average of 14 sec. ; for Phidippus 3 to 35 sec. with an average of 6 sec. 

 Forty-one specimens were employed. 



The total average of the results for the five oils is 13 seconds for 

 L. lepida and for Phidippus it is 7 seconds. 



Now, since it may be contended that the results obtained by using 

 the above oils are due to an irritation of the skin rather than due to an 

 olfactory sense, I also used the following which cannot be classed as 

 irrit.ants : 



Buttercup (Ranunculus sp.). — Both the fresh and decayed flowers 

 were employed, and there was practically no difference either in time 




404 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May,. 



or reactions. The general result was to move away slowly; sometimes; 

 a few worked palps and chelicera and one lay down over the odoi'.. 

 In this test only six specimens of Pardosa were used with the fresh 

 flowers. Time 23 to 56 sec. with an average of 32 sec. The same 

 number of specimens of L. lepida were employed with the decayed 

 flowers. Time 3 to 120 sec. with an average of 36 sec. In this as in 

 other cases 120 seconds was the limit of time without result. 



Decayed Simil (Littorina littorea). — Most moved away slowly; only 

 a few away quickly and only a few worked palps, chelicera and legs; 

 one threw up front legs and one rubbed legs together. Time for 

 L. lepida 7 to 120 sec. with an average of 61 sec. ; for Phidippus 5 to- 

 120 sec. with an average of 68 sec. Thirty-four specimens were used. 



Squash Bug (Anasa tristis). — One-half moved away slowly, the other 

 half either arose quickly and moved away slowly, or moved away 

 quickly when the squash bug was held in the fingers beneath the 

 spider; a few after moving away worked legs and palps; one lay down 

 over the odor and one followed the odor when the bug was moved 

 beneath the case. Squash bugs which were caused to exhaust all 

 their secretion and had become odorless were placed in the cases with 

 the spiders. In almost every case the spider within a few minutes 

 seized and ate the bugs. When squash bugs with a strong odor were 

 placed in the cases the spiders never came within reaching distance of 

 them and usually remained away from the bugs and when the latter 

 moved toward the spiders, the araneads gave them the right of way. 

 Time for L. lepida 3 to 11 sec. with an average of 7 sec. ; for L. scutulata 

 3 to 25 sec. with an average of 13 sec. ; for Phidippus 3 to 6 sec. with 

 an average of 4 sec. Twenty-one specimens were employed. 



Phalangids. Most moved away slowly; the others moved away 

 quickly, or moved only slightly; one threw up front legs and twO' 

 turned around. The phalangids were held in the fingers beneath the 

 cases. Only occasionally when phalangids were put into the cases did 

 the araneads eat them. Time for L. lepida 3 to 25 sec. with an average 

 of 8 sec. ; for L. scutulata 5 to 55 sec. with an average of 19 sec. Thir- 

 teen individuals were used. 



Thus the general average in time for the five oils was ten seconds, 

 while for the four odors found in nature the time was thirty seconds. 

 Hence, it is evident that spiders respond to other odors besides those 

 from irritating oils, and that they have a true olfactory sense. 



To experiment with araneads collected miscellaneously without 

 regard to sex, age, time of moulting, whether parasitised or not, and 

 conditions of the weather, one obtains all kinds of variations and 

 complexities. Not enough males were used to ascertain positively their 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 405 



•degree of sensitiveness to odors, but they seemed to respond slightly 

 •quicker than do the females. Perhaps this is due not to the higher 

 -development of their olfactory organs, but to their greater activity. 

 Probably the same reason is sufficient to explain the quicker response 

 to odors of Phidippus than of the Lycosas. Only a few experiments 

 were conducted with spiderlings. In these few cases their actions 

 were not essentially different from those of the adults. Females about 

 ready to oviposite were generally very slow to respond and in a few 

 ^cases were almost negative to odors. A few hours before and after 

 moulting specimens were entiiely negative to odors. On the first 

 day a female of Trochosa frondicola (Emert.) responded rather slowly; 

 •on the fifth day she was almost negative; on the sixth day a large 

 insect parasite was removed from her abdomen. After this she lived 

 two months but never again responded readily to odors. Other 

 individuals of her kind also responded very slowly. Ten individuals 

 •of Ariadv/i bicolor likewise responded very slowly; when not in their 

 tubes their average time was 63 seconds for the five oils, and when in 

 their tubes they rarely responded to any kind of odors. A female 

 •of Dysdera interrita which did not spin any kind of a nest responded 

 ■still more slowly; the average time for the five oils was 70 seconds. 

 •Generally on damp or rainy days all specimens responded very slowly 

 and since no definite conclusions could be derived by including such 

 data, all results on these days have been eliminated. If the individuals 

 were normal in every way they may be educated to respond to odors 

 more quickly each successive day. In twenty-three specimens of 

 L. lepida the time for the first day was 14 seconds, for the second day 

 12 seconds, thus making an increase of fourteen per cent. 



(6) Hearing. 



In order to determine whether spiders show any response to sounds 

 which a person may hear any day in the same environs in which 

 arachnids live, I placed five male crickets, two small and one large 

 katydid beneath the experimental cases. The pitch of all the cricket 

 chirps were very similar, but the notes of the small katydids were 

 rather high, while those of the large katydid were pretty low. For 

 over a week's time I watched the spiders every day very carefully, 

 but not once did I ever notice a single spider show the least response. 

 I observed very closely the first time the insects were brought into the 

 laboratory, and in order to test them repeatedly the music makers 

 were removed from the room, then were brought back after a short time, 

 but in every case the result was a negative one. Also it was noticed 

 that there was no response whatever whether the araneads were quiet, 




406 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Maj^ 



or moving when the chirping or singing began. If they were moving 

 when the music began they did not cease, but continued to move as if 

 nothing were happening. Eighteen individuals of Lycosa and Pkidip- 

 pus were employed. 



Therefore if spiders have any auditory sense why do they not 

 respond to the very sounds which a human being can hear at all times 

 immediately in their neighborhood? If quiescence can be considered 

 as a sign of hearing why did not these spiders stop moving when the 

 crickets began to chirp or when the katydids began to sing? Further- 

 more large spiders can easily catch crickets and small katydids, but 

 as yet there are no observations which show that the sense of hearing 

 aids araneads in capturing their prey. One day I saw a L. scutulata 

 and a small katydid on the same weed. The insect sang continuously, 

 I watched the spider carefully for several minutes, however it did not 

 show the least sign of hearing the katydid as far as I could observe. 



(c) Function of the Lyriform Organs. 



In order to ascertain whether the olfactory organs are localized in 

 the palps or in the maxillae, the former were first removed from eleven 

 specimens of Phidippus. The operation was performed by seizing the 

 coxa of the palps with a small pair of forceps, then by giving a quick 

 jerk the appendage was detached, thus leaving only a very small 

 opening through which a minute drop of blood emerged. To cut the 

 appendages off caused the specimens to lose too much blood which 

 in many cases was fatal. The maxillae of the same eleven were re- 

 moved in the same way the second day after the removal of the palps. 

 These spiders were the only ones found which were able to endure a 

 double operation of this kind, but after such an operation they did 

 not hesitate to catch and eat flies as usual. The following table gives 

 the results of the average time in seconds for the five oils before removal 

 of palps, after removal of palps and after removal of palps and maxillae^ 



both. 



Before removal After removal After removal of 



No. of of palps of palps palps and maxillae 



specimen. (in seconds). (in seconds). (in seconds). 



77 ...3 4 4 



75 7 8 7 



97 5 5 4 



98 3 5 14 



99 4 5 6 



106 4 4 4 



108 7 7 7 



123 7 7 7 



129 3 3 4 



130 6 4 4 



131 4 5 5 



Average 5.0 5.2 6.0 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 407 



Thus it is seen that before any operation the average time is five 

 seconds, after removal of palps 5.2 seconds, with palps and maxillae 

 both removed it is 6 seconds. Therefore after considering the 14 per 

 cent, increase of response on the second day, it is evident that the 

 palps have but little to do with the olfactory sense. Moreover the 

 maxillae seem to play a slightly more important role but this may 

 probably be due to the effect of the operation, because the spiders 

 were slightly less active after the removal of the maxillae. 



Judging from the structure of the lyriform organs, we must conclude 

 that they have some kind of a sensory function. Sight, touch, taste 

 and hearing may be eliminated at once for the following reasons. 

 The eyes serve for the sense of sight. Spiders are no more tactile 

 near or directly on these organs than elsewhere. The taste organs 

 would have to be associated with the mouth. Since it is evident that 

 spiders cannot hear, then these organs could not have an auditory 

 function. Now, there are left for consideration the humidity, olfactory 

 and temperature senses. No experiments were performed to deter- 

 mine the humidity sense, but in my opinion spiders do not have such 

 a sense. 



In order to ascertain whether the lyriform organs have an olfactory 

 sense fifteen large adult Lycosa lepida, fresh from the fields and all 

 normal in every way, were selected for the varnishing operations. Here 

 as in other cases each spider was fed and watered each day. These 

 fifteen T.ycosas were tested carefully with the five oils to see if they 

 had the correct olfactory perception. Late in the afternoon all the 

 lyriform organs (single slits not included) on the legs, palps, chelicera, 

 mouth parts and sternum were carefully varnished with yellow com- 

 mercial vaseline by placing a tiny daub of this substance on each 

 organ. Great precaution was taken not to use too much vaseline 

 and not to get any of it on the lung-books. Immediately after bemg 

 varnished the spiders began to clean themselves and removed prac- 

 tically all the vaseline from the chelicera, mouth parts and tarsi of 

 the legs and .palps. After one day's time the remaining vaseline did 

 not spread very much, but after four or five days it formed a thin 

 coating over all the legs, cephalothorax and sometimes over the abdo- 

 men. When the vaseline covered the lung-books and tracheae the 

 spiders died in a short time. Most of these araneads, however, lived 

 at least four or five days after such an operation, while some lived 

 fifteen to twenty days, and a few survived almost the entire summer, 

 [n these latter the vaseline had all evaporated and the arachnids 

 again responded normally to odors. After the operation the spiders 




408 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



took water and food in the normal way and then they were left undis- 

 turbed during the night. The next morning they were tested again 

 with the five oils. The following table gives the average in seconds 

 for the five oils before and after being varnished. 



No. of Before varnishing Next morning after var- 



specimen. (in seconds) . nishing (in seconds) . 



9 37 4 57 



C?46 3 54 



9 51 9 77 



9 52 6 51 



9 61 5 78 



(T75 3 82 



9 81 11 64 



9 90 4 32 



9 93 4 39. 



9 94 8 97 



9 96 6 33 



9 116 8 50 



9 117 15 74 



9 118 8 82 



^119 6 41 



Average 7.0 61.0 



Hence, the above table shows that the average for all the spiders 

 before varnishing was 7 seconds and after the operation 61 seconds, 

 thus increasing the time nine times. The thin coating of vaseline 

 on the lyriform organs affected No. 117 the least. It responded only 

 five times slower. No. 75 was affected the most. Its time was 

 increased twenty-seven times. Some of these specimens were tested 

 the second, third and ninth day after being varnished. The result 

 was a gradual decrease in time. At the fourteenth day the varnished 

 spiders had almost returned to their normal state for detecting odors. 



Now, since this yellow vaseline itself has a slight odor, three sets of 

 controls were used to determine whether the vaseline odor interfered 

 with the response to other odors. First, vaseline in little paper boxes 

 was suspended in the cases and left over night. The cases were made 

 as near air-tight as possible, so that the next morning the air inside the 

 cases was thoroughly permeated with the vaseline odor. Tests with 

 the oils were now prosecuted with the vaseline still suspended. Second, 

 a lump of vaseline was placed on the floor of the cases. The spiders 

 paid no attention to and ran over it as if it were a pebble. Third, 

 a daub of vaseline was placed on the dorsal surface of the cephalo- 

 thorax and abdomen where it could not interfere with any of the 

 lyriform organs, and where the araneads could not rub it off.. Thus 

 it was ascertained that the vaseline odor did not interfere with the 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 409 



response to other odors, because the time in seconds for each test was 

 exactly the same after as before using the control. 



In view of the above facts we are safe in assuming that the lyriform 

 organs function in some measure as olfactory sense organs, 



(1) The Temperature Sense. — As Gaubert (1892) came to the con- 

 clusion that the lyriform organs are an apparatus to determine tem- 

 peratiu'e and perhaps other general senses, a set of experiments was 

 performed in order to test his statement. 



A temperature case was constructed by making a glass case 40 cm. 

 long, 5 cm. wide and 10 cm. high with a cheese cloth bottom. At one 

 end placed at right angles was suspended a tin box 20 cm. long, 10 cm. 

 wide by 3 cm. high, so that only 5 centimeters of one end of this box 

 were under the glass case. At the other extreme end of the tin box 

 was placed a small alcohol lamp to heat the water in this box. A piece 

 of glass served as a cover for the box, the top of which was just one 

 centimeter beneath the bottom of the temperature case. One ther- 

 mometer was laid horizontally on the floor of the temperature case 

 with the bulb over the water. A second thermometer was placed 

 vertically in the other end of the temperature case as a control. Its 

 reading always coincided with that of the normal temperature of the 

 room. Both thermometers had previously been tested. 



Ten specimens of Lycosa lepida, one at a time, were left in the tem- 

 peratiu'e case for several hours until they came to perfect rest over the 

 water in the tin box and near the bulb of the thermometer. Now the 

 water was gradually and gently heated. Before varnishing the 

 lyriform organs the spiders moved away from the heated region when 

 the temperature on an average was raised 11.2° C. After varnishing 

 the same specimens moved away when the temperature on an average 

 was raised 12,75° C. Since more specimens of Lycosa lepida could not 

 be found, ten L. scutulata, a very similar form, were used in the same 

 way. Before being varnished they moved away from the heated end 

 when the temperature on an average was raised 15.5° C, ; after being 

 varnished on an average of 14.2° C. In each test the time was approxi- 

 mately 15 minutes and each specimen was tested with odors after 

 being varnished to see if the varnishing had been well done. Thus 

 before being varnished twenty specimens of Lycosa left the heated 

 end of the temperature case when the temperature was raised 13.3° C. 

 and after being varnished they left that end when the temperature 

 was raised 13,4° C. It hardly seems probable, therefore, that the 

 lyriform organs are an apparatus to determine temperature as Gaubert 

 thought. 

 27 




410 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



In all the experiments of various kinds 173 individuals have been 

 used. In conclusion the evidence favors the view that the lyriform 

 organs function only as olfactory organs. 



5. Discussion. 

 (a) Function of the Lyriform Organs. 



Bertkau (1878) supposed that they have an auditory sense. Dahl 

 (1883) thought that organ No. 13 on the metatarsus was an apparatus 

 to help in the spinning ; since the same organ is found in other members 

 of the arachnid group which do not spin, this hypothesis is no longer 

 admissible. Vogt and Yung (1894) suggest that these organs have a 

 respiratory function. They made this statement based upon a sup- 

 posed vessel placed below the organ as described by Dahl. Since this 

 vessel never existed their suggestion can have no force. Schimke- 

 witsch (1885) attributes an auditory role to them, and thinks that they 

 play the same part as do the " chord otonales" of Graber which are 

 found in adult insects and their larvae. This function is not yet 

 sufficiently demonstrated in insects. Wagner has the same opinion 

 as Bertkau and Schimkewitsch, but since none of these preceding 

 observers have performed any experiments to prove their views we 

 need not further consider their hypotheses. 



Gaubert concludes that the lyriform organs are an apparatus for 

 perceiving heat and probably the sense of humidity and senses in 

 general. He varnished (but does not say with what kind of varnish) 

 the lyriform organs of several Lycosas carefully so that no more of 

 the surface w^as covered than necessary and so that the varnish did 

 not interfere with the articulations. These specimens and several 

 which had not been varnished were placed in a large glass vessel. 

 In one end of this vessel he placed a shelter or protection and, when 

 -the spiders had come to rest, the other end of the vessel was lowered 

 into hot water. He says: "Quand la temperature commence a 

 s'elever les Araignees n'ayant subi aucune preparation abandonment 

 leur retraite et se dirigent vers I'autre partie du bocal, celles qui ont 

 les organes lyriformes vernis ne cherchent a fuir qu' on moment apres, 

 lorsque la temperature est plus elevee." 



(6) Olfactory Experiments. 



Robineau-Desvoidy (1842), according to Packard (1887), said that 

 the olfactory sense of spiders is very well developed and localized in 

 the mandibles. 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 411 



Dahi (1884) found a very peculiar sense organ in the maxillae of 

 spiders. He called it an olfactory organ because he failed to find any 

 olfactory structure near the breathing apparatus and because its 

 location is not suitable for any other function. He performed no 

 experiments to determine its office. According to my experiments 

 it has probably not the slightest olfactory sense. He experimented 

 on various species with turpentine and clove oils, but was not able 

 to ascertain whether they have the power to distinguish differences 

 in various oils. Each oil repelled the specimens in a like manner. 



Dahl (1885) states that Bertkau does not agree with him in regard 

 to the histology of his so-called olfactory organ. 



The Peckhams (1887) experimented on various species with strong 

 smelling oils and perfumes. Three species, Epeira hortoum, Dolomedes 

 tenehrosus and Herpyllus ecclesiasticus did not respond to the test. 

 Sometimes the legs were rubbed between the palps and falces. Var- 

 ious other movements also were exhibited similar to those I have de- 

 scribed. Among spiders of the same species there was a great degree 

 of difference in the sensitiveness to various odors. 



McCook (1890) concludes from experiments and observations that 

 spiders have little sense of smell, although they are in some way 

 affected by certain odors. At first he entertained the opinion that the 

 sense of smell in spiders, like that of hearing, abides entirely in the 

 delicate hairs covering the creature. Later, judging from the experi- 

 ments of the Peckhams, he states that their experiments would indicate 

 that the olfactory organs are distributed more or less over the entire 

 surface of the body, especially at the tips of the feet and at the apex 

 of the abdomen. After the extirpation of the palps of two females, 

 there was no apparent loss of sensitiveness. 



Pritchett (1904) states that both kinds of odors, non-irritant and 

 irritant, repel both males and females in the same degree. Indi- 

 viduals with either palps, or first pair of legs, or tarsi of all le.gs removed, 

 responded normally when all the other appendages were intact. Also 

 they responded in the same way when the sense hairs were removed 

 from all the legs. 



(c) Sense of Hearing. 



Boys (1880) asserted that the garden spider responded readily to 

 the vibrations of tuning forks, but since this is an orb-weaver the web 

 certainly must have been irritated in some way to cause the so-called 

 auditory reactions. 



The Peckhams found that only web-makers responded to tuning 




412 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [MrY^ 



forks, while those that make no webs gave not the sHghtest heed to 

 sounds. They attempted to explain this phenomenon by the dif- 

 ference in the method of capturing food, but now it is pretty generally 

 agreed that in all such experiments the vibrations from the tuning 

 forks agitate the webs. 



McCook cites several recorded cases where spiders are supposed to 

 hear and in a few cases to really enjoy music, but he thought that such 

 responses of the araneads could be explained in other ways than by 

 imagining that they have an auditory perception. McCook con- 

 cluded after many experiments with musical instruments, various 

 sounds of the human voice and sonorous objects that if spiders have 

 any sense of hearing, that sense is distributed, like the sense of smell, 

 over the entire body and that it can scarcely be distinguished from the 

 sense of touch. 



Dahl (1883) called certain peculiar hairs on the three end joints of 

 the legs auditory hairs. They are even so constant in arrangement 

 that he attaches an important taxonomic significance to them. In 

 order to prove the possibility that they have an auditory function he 

 placed the foot of a dead dried spider under the microscope. Then 

 he struck a deep tone on a violin and noticed a vibration of these hairs. 

 From this evidence he claimed that spiders have an auditory sense, 

 although with live araneads he could not always notice any reaction 

 to tones. He stated that a nerve fibre runs out from the base of each 

 of these hairs but presents no drawing of such. The next year Dahl 

 described and presented a drawing of the nerve of a spider's leg which 

 can be easily recognized by its long irregularly arranged nuclei. He 

 said that from this nerve fibres run out to the individual auditory 

 hairs, but even here he produces no drawing of such a connection. 

 Judging from the similarity in structure of various kinds of hairs 

 Wagner (1888) asserted that Dahl's so-called auditory hair could not 

 have such a function. 



Westring (1843) was the first to mention a stridulating organ in a 

 theridiid, Asagena phalerata. Wood-Mason (1875) exhibited specimens 

 of a gigantic theraphosid which he called Mygale stridulans. These 

 produced loud stridulating sounds. Campbell (1881) observed these 

 organs in three or four different species of theridiids. Peal (1895) 

 noticed the stridulating phenomena of an Australian spider. Pocock 

 (1895) discovered and gave drawings of a stridulating organ in the 

 male of Cambridgea antipodiana, an agalenid. Since the organs were 

 present only in the males he concluded that the sound emitted must 

 be a sexual call. Spencer (1895) observed a theraphosid which was 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 413 



able to produce a stridulating sound. Montgomery (1909) stated 

 also that the genus Geotrecha, a drassid, exhibits a good case of stridu- 

 lation. In the theridiids and Geotrecha as yet the stridulation has 

 never been heard by the human ear. It carmot be a sexual call for 

 the sexes in Geotrecha show no responses whatever to the stridulation 

 of each other and do not even stridulate during the mating. Even 

 if the sound in the theraphosids and others is audible to the human ear, 

 this need not imply that these araneads have auditory organs for it 

 is much more probable that such sounds serve only as a warning to 

 animals other than spiders. Therefore, when all the evidence con- 

 cerning the sense of hearing is summarized, I am convinced that spiders 

 have no such sense according to our pi'esent definition of that per- 

 ception. 



B. The Tactile Hairs. 



Morphologically there are probably five or six different kinds of 

 hairs on the various parts of the bodies in different species of araneads. 

 Physiologically, as far as we know, they may be divided into the spin- 

 ning hairs located on the spinnerets and the tactile hairs which include 

 all others found elsewhere. The latter group includes the large movable 

 spines, the so-called auditory hairs and the various types of tactile 

 hairs. 



While searching for the sense cells of the lyriform organs, I was 

 successful also in finding the innervation of two kinds of tactile hairs 

 and the muscles which move one of these. The ones without muscles 

 I shall call fixed tactile hairs and those with muscles movable tactile 

 hairs. In diameter the movable hairs are the second largest of all 

 kinds of hairs and in length they are either as long but usually longer 

 than any other type of hair; in Theridium tepidariorum they are 

 abundantly distributed on the four distal joints of each leg, but rather 

 sparingly on the other three joints of the legs and elsewhere, while on 

 the femur most of them are located at the distal end arranged in two 

 circular rows on the two lines of articulation. While these hairs are 

 long, slender, more or less bent and can be moved only slightly, the 

 movable spines are generally short, thick, straight and can be moved 

 considerably. The former are certainly only a modification of the 

 latter. 



Fig. 7, from the trochanter of Pholcus, exhibits the complete inner- 

 vation of the fixed tactile hairs. The socket (sk.) here, as in other 

 cases where no muscles were observed, is like those of the movable 

 hairs. The nerve (N.) is considerably torn, but still the parts are very 




414 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



distinct. A process of the neurilemma (neu.) encloses the nerve 

 fiber (n. f.) which runs to the sense cell (s. c.) lying at the base of the 

 ■hypodermis. After the neurilemma passes around this sense cell it 

 'Can no longer be seen, but the delicate sensory fiber (s. f.) continues 

 to the socket. The sense cell at the right is much smaller and the 

 neurilemma seems to stop before it surrounds the cell. Fig. 6, from 

 the distal end of the femur of Th. tepidariorum six or seven hours 

 after moulting, shows the actual union of the sense cell (s. c.) with the 

 base of the movable hair. Here the sensory fiber (s. f.) ends in the 

 cavity of the hair very near the bottom. This sense cell is similar to 

 those of the lyriform organs, but is more difficult to find. In this 

 section only fragments of the two muscles (m.) were discernible, and 

 the hypodermis (hyp.) is pulled away from the newly formed cuticula 

 (cu.). Fig. 8, from the same section as fig. 6, is a better representa- 

 tion of the socket and muscles, but the sense cell was not present. 

 Here the apparently smooth muscles are attached at one end to the 

 bottom of the flask (fl.) of the socket and at the other end to the 

 basement membrane (b. m.) of the hypodermis. The sensory fiber 

 is very indistinct here. The cytoplasmic substance (cyt. s.) exhibited 

 in the cavity of this hair was observed in another hair of the same 

 individual. It has the same color as has the sensory fiber, but instead 

 of its walls being smooth, they are corrugated. Thus this substance 

 must be dead cytoplasm and not a continuation of the fiber into the 

 •cavity. In the cross sections of the smaller fixed tactile hairs the 

 sockets wer? always similar to those drawn, but in only one case did I 

 see the sense cell, and in no instance did I ever see any signs of the 

 muscles. 



One can easily Ulustrate that the largest hairs and particularly the 

 spines on the legs of any spider are movable by gently touching them 

 with a small object. Before being touched they form an angle of 

 about twenty degrees with the leg; at the instant of being irritated 

 they lie down almest flat on the leg, the spider either lifts its leg or 

 moves away and in only a few seconds the hairs are raised again to 

 their normal position. Perhaps the movable spines serve primarily 

 as a protective purpose in guarding off enemies and various kinds of 

 obstacles, while probably the movable tactile hairs are used primarily 

 as tactile instruments which receive the impulses of gusts of wind and 

 ithe heavy vibrations of the webs, and the various kinds of smaller 

 tactile hairs with their nervous connections receive and transmit the 

 more delicate tactile stimuli. 



Dahl (1883) called the slenderest and probably the most delicate 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 415" 



of the tactile hairs on the legs and palps auditory hairs, because they 

 responded to the vibrations of a violin. Wagner (1888) described 

 and gave drawings of four different kinds of hairs. His type called 

 the "poll tactil fin" seems to correspond very closely to Dahl's auditory 

 hair. Wagner showed that each type has a nerve fiber running out 

 from its base. He said that the function of these different types cannot 

 be recognized as identical and that no one of them can be regarded 

 as an auditory organ. But if their function is not identical, the 

 similarity of their fundamental parts as compared with each other and 

 with Dahl's auditory hair causes one to conclude that they have an 

 analogous function. Neither one of the above observers has seen the 

 sense cells or muscles of any one type of these tactile hairs. 



McCook (1890), in discussing the so-called auditory and tactile 

 hairs, thought that all the various types should be regarded as tactile 

 only and that perhaps each type has a particular tactile function tO' 

 perform, but not an auditory one as Dahl thought. 



Gaubert (1890) stated that the tactile hairs are moved by tur- 

 gescence and that they possess no muscular fibers. In (1892) he 

 asserted that the short curved spines of spiders are innately movable 

 and serve as a strong defense by projecting outward when the aranead 

 is seized. In discussing the blood pressure he stated that the joints 

 are stretched by turgor, which also moves the tactile hairs. 



Both Gaubert (1892) and Hansen (1893) have found -tactile hairs 

 in certain species of scorpions. The latter author described tw^o 

 kinds of sensitive hairs in various species of the pedipalps, and tactile 

 hairs are found in all genera known to him in the pseudoscorpions.. 

 Hansen and Sorensen (1904), pp. 39 and 130) state that sensitive 

 hairs are present in the phalangids and ricinulei. 



Bibliography. 



Banta, a. M. 1907. The Fauna of Mayfield's Cave. (Pub. No. 67, Carnegie 



Institution, pp. 59-67.) 

 Bertkau, p. 1878. Versuch einer natiirlichen Anordnung der Spinnen nebst 



Bemerkungen einzelnen Gattungen (Archiv. Naturg., p. 354). 



1885. Bemerkungen zu Schimkewitsch's Notiz (Zool. Am., VIII, pp. 



537, 538). 



Boys, C. V. 1880. The Influence of a Tuning-fork on the Garden Spider 



(Nature, XXIII, pp. 149, 150). 

 Campbell. 1881. Stridulating Organs in Spiders (J. Linn. Soc, XV, pp.. 



152-155). 

 Dahl, T. 1883. Ueber die Horhaare bei den Aracliniden (Zool. Am., VI). 



1884. Das Gehor- und Geruchsorgan der Spinnen (Arch. mikr. Anat.y 



XXIV, pp. 1-10). 



1885. Zur Anatomie der Araneen (Zool. Am., VIII, pp. 241-243). 



Gaubert, P. 1890. (a) Note sur les organs lyriformes des Arachnides (BvlL 



Soc. Philom., (8), II). (b) Quelque observations nouvelles siir le mouve- 




416 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



ment des membres et des polls tactiles des Arachnides, p. 15 of the second 



part (ibidem). 

 — — 1892. Recherches sur les organes des sens et sur las systems tegumentaire, 

 glandulaire et musculaire des appendices des Arachnides (Ann. Sci. Nat. Zool., 



(7), XIII, pp. 31-185, Pis. I-IV). 

 Hansen, H. J. 1893. Organs and Characters in Different Orders of Arachnids 



(Entomologiske Meddeleher, pp.. 136-251, Tab. II-V). 

 Hansen, H. J., and Sorensen, W. 1904. On Two Orders of Arachnida (Cambr. 



Univ. Press, pp. 42 and 130). 

 McCooK, H. C. 1890. American Spiders and their Spinning Work" (Vol. II, 



Philadelphia). 

 McIndoo, N. E. 1911. Notes on Some Arachnids from Ohio Valley Caves 



(Biol. Bull, Vol. XX, No. 3, February). 

 Montgomery, T. H., Jr. 1909. Further Studies on the Activities of Araneads, 



II (Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. of Philadelphia, pp. 557, 558). 

 Packard, A. S. 1887. Abstract of Kraepelin's Criticisms on Works of Writers 



on Olfactory Organs of Arthropods. (Am. Nat., XXI, p. 182). 

 Peal, S. E. 1895. Stridulating Organ in a Spider (Nature, LII, p. 148). 

 Peckham, G. W.'and E. G. 1887. Some Observations on the Mental Powers 



of Spiders (Journ. Morph., I, pp. 383-419). 

 PococK, R. I. 1895. On a New Sound-producing Organ in a Spider (Ann. 



Mag. N. Hist., (6), XVI, pp. 230-233). 

 Pritchett, Annie H. 1904. Observations on Hearing and Smell in Spiders 



(Am. Nat., XXXVIII, pp. 859-867). 

 Schimkewitsch, W. 1885. Sur un organ des sens des Araign^es (Zool. 



Am., IV). 



1884. Recherches sur I'anatomie de I'Epeira (Ann. Sci. Nat., p. 7). 



Simon, E. 1892. Histoire Naturelle des Araignees (2me ed., 1, Paris). 

 Spencer, Baldw. 1895. The Presence of a Stridulating Organ in a Spider 



(Nature, LI, p. 438). 

 Wagner, M. W. 1888. La Mue des Araignees (Ann. Sci. Nat., Paris, (7), 

 p. 295). 



1888. Des Polls nommes auditifs chez les Araignees (Bull, de la Sac. 



imp. des naturalists des Moscou, p. 121). 



Westring. 1843. Stridulation of Asagena phalerata (Nat. Hist. Tidsskr., 



IV, Copenhagen, p. 349). 

 Wood-Mason. 1875. Stridulation of a Theraphosid (Proc. Asiat. Soc. Bengal, 



p. 197). 

 VoGT, C, et Yung, E. 1894. Anatomie Comparee (Vol. II, Paris, p. 209). 



Explanation of Plates XXX-XXXIII. 



All figures are from camera lucida drawings made at the base of the micro- 

 scope. 



Abbreviations. 



ag. cyt aggregations of dense staining di dilatation. 



cytoplasm. ex. m extensor muscle. 



art artery. fl flask of socket. 



b border. hj^p hypodermis. 



b, c blood corpuscles. int. b internal border. 



"h, m basement membrane of hypo- I. o lyriform organ. 



dermis. m. b muscle bundle. 



b. m. n....nuclei of basement membrane, m. nuc muscle nuclei. 



"b. p blood plasm. mov. h movable tactile hair. 



ca cavity of hair. N nerve of leg. 



con. t connective tissue. N. b nerve branch. 



con. t. n.. connective tissue nuclei. n. f nerve fiber. 



•cu cuticula. neu neurilemma. 



cyt. s cj'toplasmic substance. n. neu. nuclei of neurilemma. 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 417 



neu. n neuroglia nuclei. s. f sensory fiber. 



neu. w neuroglia walls. sk socket. 



nuc. c nuclei of hypodermal cells. si slit. 



o. m outer membrane of hypo- s. s single s!it. 



dermis. t. h fixed tactile hair. 



r. m reflexor muscle. v. sin venous sinus. 



sar sarcolemma. 1. 1. a first line of articulation. 



s. c sense cell. 2. 1. a second line of articulation. 



s. c. n sense cell nucleus. 



Plate XXX. — Fig. 1. — Cross section of distal end of trochanter of Agalena ncevia 

 just moulted, showing the anatomy of the leg and the innervation of a 

 large lyriform organ. The cuticula is only diagrammatic as taken from 

 various species. The nerve is drawn at the location it holds when its 

 branch penetrates the basement membrane of the hypodermis, although 

 this branch begins to leave the nerve 220 microns in front of this place. 

 The sense cells have their natural position, but they have been recon- 

 structed from nine sections just in front of where the nerve branch enters 

 the hypodermis. All other parts are taken from just one section in front 

 of the organ. Leitz oc. 2 and obj. 7. X 290. 

 Fig. 2. — Diagram of a longitudinal-transverse section of the distal end of 

 the femur of Th. tepidariorum, showing the anatomy of the leg and the 

 innervation of the following: a lyriform organ, a fixed tactile hair, a 

 movable tactile hair, and the two muscles of the latter hair. All the 

 larger hairs are more or less movable, while the smaller ones are non- 

 movable. 



PliATE XXXI. — Fig. 3. — ^Two sense cells as they actuall}^ appear in a cross sec- 

 tion of a trochanter of Th. tepidariorum six or seven hours after moult- 

 ing. Zeiss comps. oc. 6 and oil imm. 12. X 960. 



Fig. 4. — Diagram showing a single slit of a lyriform organ with its sense 

 cell attached at the bottom of the dilatation. 



Fig. 5. — Reconstruction from two consecutive sections of the trochanter 

 of Th. tepidariorum six or seven hours after moulting, showing the inner- 

 vation of a single slit. Zeiss comps. oc. 6 and oil imm. 12. X 960. 



Fig. 6. — The innervation with fragments of two muscles of a movable 

 tactile hair from the distal end of the femur of Th. tepidariorum six or 

 seven hours after moulting. The hypodermis is pulled away from the 

 cuticula. Leitz oc. 4 and obj. 7. X 720. 



Fig. 7. — The innervation of two fixed tactile hairs on the trochanter of 

 Pholcus. The nerve is considerably torn. Leitz oc. 2 and obj. 7. X 455. 



Fig. 8. — Same as fig. 6, except a much smaller hair. Here the muscles are 

 distinctly shown, but the sense cell is absent. Zeiss comps. oc. 6 and 

 oil imm. 12. X 960. 



Plate XXXII. — Fig. 9. — a ventral and b dorsal surface of the palp of a male 

 Troglohyphantes, showing the single slits on the sixth joint. The bulb 

 with its accessaries are omitted. Leitz oc. 2 and obj. 3. X 50. 



Fig. 10. — Organ No. 13 on metatarsus of second leg of Th. tepidariorum. 



Figs. 10-12 and 15-58. X 385. Zeiss comps. oc. 6 and Leitz obj. 7. 



Fig. 11. — ^The extremely large organ on cheliceron of Moggridgea. 



Fig. 12. — Organ on tibia of third leg of Uroctea. 



Fig. 13. — Ventral view of Th. tepidariorum, showing disposition of lyriform 

 organs. The legs are slightly too short and the last two pairs are turned 

 over so that their dorsal surface is shown. The spider is enlarged about 

 five, while the lyriform organs are enlarged about seven times. 



Fig. 14. — Same as fig. 13, except here the dorsal view is shown and the last 

 two pairs of legs are turned over so that they show their ventral surface. 



Plate XXXIII. — Fig. 15. — Organ No. 3 from trochanter of fourth leg of Th. 

 tepidariorum. 




418 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



Fig. 16. — Simple organ No. 1 from coxa of first leg of Th. tepidariorum. 



Fig. 17.— Organ No. 9 on patella of palp of Th. tepidariorum. 



Fig. 18. — h organ No. 9 and a its associated slit on patella of second leg of 

 Th. tepidariorum. 



Fig. 19. — Simple organ on spinneret of Epeira. 



Fig. 20. — Organs Nos. 14 and 15 on cheliceron of Hyptiotes. 



Fig. 21. — Slits from labium of Ariadna. 



Fig. 22. — Slits from female Pholcus near epigynum. 



Fig. 23. — Organ No. 8 on patella of palp of Th. tepidariorum. 



Fig. 24. — Organ No. 5 on femur of second leg of Th. tepidariorum. 



Fig. 25. — Organ on fifth joint of palp of Moggridgea. 



Fig. 26. — Organ No. 2 on trochanter of palp of Th. tepidariorum. 



Fig. 27. — Organ No. 1 on coxa of palp of Th. tepidariorum. 



Fig. 28. — Organs No. 16 and 17 on cheliceron of Dictyna. 



Fig. 29. — Single slits with hairs on first joint of spinneret of Evagrus. 



Fig. 30. — Organ No. 4 from trochanter of third leg of Th. tepidariorum. 



Fig. 31. — Single slit marked a in figs. 13 and 14. 



Fig. 32. — a is single slit marked c on legs; b is the slit marked c on central 

 side of palp; c is slit called d on dorsal side of palp. See figs. 13 and 14. 



Fig. 33. — Compound organ on spinneret of Tama. 



Fig. 34. — a is slit called e on palp ; b is slit marked / on palp ; c is slit marked 

 / on first leg. See figs. 13 and 14. 



Fig. 35. — Organ No. 1 on coxa of third leg of Moggridgea. 



Fig. 36. — Slits from pedicle of Moggridgea. 



Fig. 37. — a is slit marked m on first leg ; b is slits on same leg in figs. 13 and 14. 



Fig. 38. — Organ No. 5 on femur of palp of Th. tepidariorum. 



Fig. 39. — Slits marked h on maxilla in fig. 13. 



Fig. 40. — Transverse organ on fifth joint of palp of Moggridgea. 



Fig. 41. — Organ No. 18 on pedicle of Th. tepidariorum. 



Fig. 42. — Slits marked i on sternum in fig. 13. 



Fig. 43. — Two organs in front of epigynum of Calculus. 



Fig. 44. — a is slit marked j near epigj'num ; b is slits k on spinneret in fig. 13. 



Fig. 45. — Organ No. 12 on tibia of second leg of Th. tepidariorum. 



Fig. 46. — Slits from cephalothoracic shield of Ariadna. 



Fig. 47. — Organ with two isolated slits in front of epigynum of Dysdera. 



Fig. 48. — Organ on fifth joint of palp of Moggridgea. 



Fig. 49. — Organ on tarsus of second leg of Hypochilus. 



Fig. 50. — Slits marked g on cheliceron of fig. 13. 



Fig. 51. — a and b organs 14 and 15, respectively, on cheliceron of Th. tepi- 

 dariorum. 



Fig. 52. — Organ No. 2 from trochanter of first leg of Th. tepidariorum. 



Fig. 53.— Organ No. 2 from trochanter of second leg of Th. tepidariorum. 



Fig. 54. — Slits near epigynum of Moggridgea. 



Fig. 55. — a and c organ No. 16 and its associated slit; b No. 17 on cheliceron 

 of Th. tepidariorum. 



Fig. 56. — Organ on fifth joint of palp of Moggridgea. 



Fig. 57. — a and b organs Nos. 10 and 11, respectively, from tibia of second 

 leg of Th. tepidariorum. 



Fig. 58. — a organ No. 7 and b No. 8 on patella of third leg of Th. tejndariorum , 




1911.1 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



419 



SOME FISHES FROM VENEZUELA. 



BY HENRY W. FOWLER. 



Mr. Frank E. Bond having, during the past winter, organized an 

 expedition to collect objects of natural history in the region of 

 the Orinoco delta, secured the fishes here reported. The collection, 

 though small, is important, as it contains several interesting forms 

 apparently new. The Academy is indebted to Mr. Bond for the gift 

 of the specimens to the museum. 



OHARA-CID^. 

 TETRAGONOPTERIN^.. 



Phenacogaster bondi sp. no v. Fig. 1. 



Head 3f ; depth 2; D. iii, 9, i; A. iii, 33, i; P. i, 12; V. i, 6; scales 

 in 1. 1. 31 +2; 8 scales above 1. 1.; 8 scales below 1. 1.; 14 predorsal 

 .scales; head width 2y^ its length; snout 4; eye 2f ; maxillary 2f ; 



¥ 



Fig. 1. — Phenacogaster hondi Fowler. Type. 




420 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May^ 



mandible 2f; interorbital 2^; first branched anal ray If ; least depth 

 of caudal peduncle 2^; pectoral If; ventral (tip damaged) 2^. 



Body deep, strongly compressed, contour slightly ovoid with greatest 

 depth at dorsal origin, profiles generally similar, predorsal and post- 

 ventral slightly trenchant and all other edges rounded convexly. 

 Caudal peduncle well compressed, length about ^ its least depth. 



Head rather small, well compressed, upper profile at first slightly 

 convex and then equally concave, lower profile a little convex, and 

 flattened sides slightly constricted below. Snout convex over surface, 

 obtuse, length about half its base. Eye rounded, but little elevated 

 and near first f in head. Maxillary exposed, except under edge 

 which slips below narrow preorbital, nearly vertical, toothless, extends 

 back a little beyond front eye margin, but not quite opposite pupil.. 

 Mouth broadly transverse, rather small, commissure as seen laterally 

 slight and a little inclined. Lips rather thin. Teeth only in jaws, 

 upper biserial and lower entirely uniserial, and most all or at least 

 anterior ones with a strong median cusp and 2 smaller ones each side. 

 Upper teeth of about uniform size, all at least tricuspid and smaller 

 than mandibular teeth. Mandible about even with snout tip when 

 closed, scarcely projects, surface convex and rami but little elevated. 

 Tongue depressed, upper surface flattened, free in front, tip rounded. 

 Nostrils close together, close before eye above, similar, and anterior 

 with slight posterior cutaneous flap exposing posterior in slight cres- 

 cent. Interorbital evenly convex. Postero-infraorbital width 2 in 

 eye, and postorbital a little narrower. Suborbitals not entirely 

 covering cheek or extending to preopercle ridge, leaving a rather wide 

 strip of skin. Preopercle ridge inclined a little forward, and at lower 

 corner 3 diverging flutings. Opercle narrow, width about 2f its depth. 

 Occipital fontanel broad. Head bones all smooth. 



Gill-opening forward about opposite or trifle before front pupil 

 edge, though not to front eye edge. Rakers about 9 + 9, slender, 

 weak, pointed, compressed, about 2 in filaments. Latter about 2 

 iji eye. No pseudobranchiae. Isthmus compressed, constricted in 

 front, surface convex. Branchiostegals 4, compressed, rather large. 



Scales large, each well exposed, in longitudinal series parallel with 

 1. 1., each with 2 or 3 radiating stria?, size uniform except smaller ones 

 apparently distributed entirely over caudal, though at present most 

 of them removed. Anal base covered with small scales like those on 

 caudal. Other fins naked. Apparently nO scaly axillary pectoral or 

 ventral flaps. L. 1. complete, a trifle decurved at first from shoulder, 

 then straight to median caudal base. Tubes in 1. 1. simple, each well 

 exposed and not extending back to exposed scale edge. 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 421 



Dorsal origin a little nearer snout tip than caudal base, first branched 

 ray longest, though tip of third depressed branched ray reaches well 

 behind tip of last, and fin If to caudal base, or a little longer than head. 

 Adipose fin inserted a little nearer caudal base than last dorsal ray 

 base, fin base slender and end a little expanded, reaches 2 to caudal 

 base. Anal base long, origin of fin about opposite second branched 

 dorsal ray base, first branched ray longest with others graduated down 

 about first half in fin length, after which rays uniformly lower. Caudal 

 emarginate (damaged), apparently about long as head ? Pectoral 

 inserted low, extends well beyond ventral origin. Latter midway 

 between pectoral and anal origins, fin about | to anal. Vent close 

 before anal. 



Color when fresh in rum ecru-brownish generally, paler to whitish 

 with bright silvery on sides below. Head pale brownish above, sides 

 and below burnished brilliant silvery- white. Iris deep umber, with 

 rather reddish tinge. Lips brownish. A grayish humeral spot about 

 size of pupil. No caudal spot. From humeral spot to median caudal 

 base an underlaid leaden streak, very narrow and well defined behind, 

 overlaid silvery. Upper edge of body dusted with dull or pale brown- 

 ish. Dorsals, caudal and anal dull olivaceous-brown, and other fins 

 paler. 



Length 1^ inches (caudal tips damaged). 



Type No. 37,863, A. N. S. P. Corisal, Venezuela. February 27th, 

 1911. F. E. Bond and Stewardson Brown. 



Nos. 37,864 to 37,866, paratypes, same data. Head 3^ to 3+; 

 depth 2; D. iii, 9, i; A, iii, 29, i to iii, 32, i; scales in 1. 1. 30 to 32 + 

 2 or 3; scales above 1. 1. 8 or 9; scales below 1. 1. 9 or 10; predorsal 

 scales 14 or 15; snout 4 to 4^ in head; eye 2J^ to 2^; maxillary 2f 

 to 2f ; interorbital 2f to 2i; length If to H inches (caudal tips dam- 

 aged). 



Though the scales are not entirely distributed over the caudal fin 

 at present, they were evidently so when .the examples were fresh, 

 and for this reason I have restored them on the accompaning figure. 

 P. bondi differs from all the known species in its deeper body, which 

 suggests Tetragonopterus. P. pedinatus (Cope) has the anal beginning 

 before the dorsal origin, which may be seen on comparing my figure, 

 wrongly called Astyanax longior} The species I have figured as 

 A. pedinatus^. is A. longior (Cope). P. megalostidus Eigenmann and 



1 Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1906, p. 342, fig. 30. 

 =* L. c, p. 341, fig. 29. 




422 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [MaV, 



P. microstictus Eigenmann both differ in the slender body, coloration, 

 etc., when compared with P. bondi. P. bairdii (Steindachner) has 

 the anal radii 40 to 42. 



(Named for Mr. Frank E. Bond.) 



APODASTYANAX gen. nov. 

 Type Apodastyanax stewardsoni sp. nov. 



Body elongated moderately, well compressed. Head moderate. 

 Mouth small. Teeth only in jaws, upper biserial and lower imiserial. 

 Maxillary small, reaches front eye edge, toothless. Rakers thin, 

 slender. Scales moderately small, cycloid, and only on base of caudal, 

 remainder of fin and other fins naked. L. 1. complete, median along 

 side. Dorsal inserted about midway in body. Anal with long base, 

 inserted about opposite dorsal origin. Adipose fin present. Caudal 

 emarginate. Pectoral low, moderate. No ventral fins. Coloration 

 brownish, silvered. A grayish shoulder spot and a dusky basal caudal 

 spot. Size small. 



This genus seems to be well separated from almost all the others in 

 the absence of ventral fins, of which there is no trace whatever. 



(^, without; -()u?j foot; 'airzod'^a^^ Asti/cinax; with reference to the 

 absence of the ventral fins.) 



Apodastyanax stewardsoni sp. nov. Fig. 2. 



Head 3f ; depth 2-i-; D. iii, 9; A. iii, 39, i; P. i, 12; scales in 1. 1. 

 about 42 + 3 ? (squamation injured); 12 scales above 1. 1.; 13 scales 

 below 1. 1.; 21 predorsal scales; head width 2^ its length; mandible 

 about 2f ; dorsal base If; first branched anal ray about 2; least depth 

 of caudal peduncle 2^; pectoral 1^; snout 5 in head measured from 

 upper jaw tip; eye 2^; maxillary 3J; interorbital 2f. 



Body strongly compressed, deepest before middle or about first * in 

 total length at dorsal and anal origins, predorsal region with slightly 

 constricted or trenchant edge due to median keel, other edges rounded 

 convexly, and general contour ovoid. Caudal peduncle well com- 

 pressed, length about f its least depth. 



Head moderate, compressed, lower profile slightly more inclined, 

 flattened sides a little constricted below. Snout short, surface 

 convex, obtuse as viewed from above, length about half its basal 

 width. Eye large, circular, a little elevated, about first f in head. 

 Mouth small, transverse, with strong jaws. Maxillary small, vertical, 

 along front edge of eye below, and not extending below lower edge of 

 latter, its greatest expansion about 4 in pupil. Lips thin. Teeth 

 only in front of each jaw, none on maxillary. Upper jaw teeth 9 in 




1911.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



423 



outer series, tricuspid, smaller than in inner series, and with median 

 cusp enlarged. Inner upper teeth quadricuspid, each tooth having 

 2 small inner cusps and an enlarged cusp next to small external cusp. 

 Mandibular teeth similar to last, large, uniserial, and 10 in number. 

 No other teeth in mouth. Tongue depressed or flattened, rounded 



Fig. 2. — Apodastyanax stewardsoni Fowler. Type. 



or free in front. Mandible small, strong, well protruded before snout 

 tip, rather short. Nostrils together, close before eye above. Inter- 

 orbital slightly convex. Postero-infraorbital broad, width about 

 I of eye. Other suborbitals all narrower. Preopercle ridge slightly- 

 inclined forward, its hind edge vertical. Opercle width H in eye. 



Gill-opening forward about opposite front eye edge. Rakers 

 9 + 14, small, thin, slender, 2^ in eye. Filaments 2 in eye. Pseudo- 

 branchise not evident. Isthmus narrowly constricted in front. 

 Branchiostegals about 6, well compressed and rather broad. 



Scales cycloid, all well exposed in longitudinal series parallel with 

 1. 1., not extending on fins except few on caudal base. No axillary 

 pectoral scaly flap. L. 1. complete, a little decurved at first, then 

 straight and midway along side of body to caudal base medianly. 

 Tubes in 1. 1. simple, each extending well over exposure of scale, though 

 not quite reaching its hind exposed edge. 




424 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



Dorsal origin inserted about midway between snout tip and caudal 

 base, first branched ray largest (now a little damaged terminally), 

 and apparently a little longer than head, depressed back slightly more 

 than half way to caudal base. Adipose fin inserted trifle after last 

 third in space between last dorsal ray base and caudal base, fin slender, 

 about If to caudal base. Caudal (damaged) evidently emarginate. 

 Anal inserted nearly opposite dorsal origin, anterior or first branched 

 ray longest, base of fin long and all other rays low. Pectoral inserted 

 low, rather long, upper rays longest, pointed, and falling little short 

 of anal origin. Vent close before anal. 



Color when fresh in rum pale brownish, nearly ecru, sides and below 

 silvered whitish. Scales along edge of back and above dusted 

 rather inconspicuously with dull dusky. A leaden streak from 

 shoulder to caudal base, where it resolves in an ill-defined dusky 

 spot a little larger than pupil, but not so large as eye. Another 

 spot at shoulder, where leaden streak begins, a little smaller than 

 caudal spot, and paler or leaden in color. Dorsal and caudal pale 

 olivaceous-ecru, and anal similar though still paler. Pectoral very 

 pale or whitish. Iris deep brown, tinged reddish. Head pale brown 

 above, sides and below burnished bright silvery-white. Lips pale 

 brownish. Peritoneum showing through abdominal walls as whitish. 



Length 1| inches (caudal tips damaged). 



Type No. 37,867, A. N. S. P. Corisal, Venezuela. February 27th, 

 191L F. E. Bond and Stewardson Brown. 



Only the above, a small example, taken in a pail from a small 

 stream, along with the types of Phenacogaster hondi. It is now in 

 rather poor preservation. 



(Named for Mr. Stewardson Brown.) 



SERRASALMIN^. 

 Pygooentrus stigmaterythraens sp. nov. Fig. 3. 



Head 2i; depth 1|; D. ii, 15, i; A. iii, 27, i; P. i, 15; Y- i, 6; 

 scales in 1. 1. according to tubes 80-1-9; scales above 1. 1. along its 

 course 102 + 12; 40 scales above 1. 1. to dorsal origin; 48 scales below 

 1. 1. to ventral origin; 38 scales below 1. 1. to anal origin; predorsal 

 scales about 57; head width about If its length; head depth at occiput 

 about lyVj niandible 2^; first branched dorsal ray (tip damaged now) 

 about If ?; third simple anal ray 2|; least depth of caudal peduncle 

 3^; upper caudal lobe (tip damaged) about If ?; lower caudal lobe 

 (tip slightly damaged) about 1^; pectoral 1^; ventral 2^; snout 3f in 

 head measured from upper jaw tip; eye 4f ; maxillary 2^; inter- 

 orbital 2i. 




1911.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 



425 



Body deep, well compressed, robust, contour slightly ovoid with 

 greatest depth at dorsal origin, predorsal edge slightly trenchant, 

 also postdorsal, abdominal edge trenchant with 19+9 serrse, of which 

 postventral larger, and other body edges all convexly rounded. Cau- 

 dal peduncle well compressed, its least depth about equal to its length. 



Head heavy, robust, compressed moderately, upper profile more 



Fig. 3. — Pygocentrus stigmaterythroeus Fowler. Type. 



inclined, first convex and then slightly concave. Lower head profile, 

 a little convex and flattened sides scarcely constricted below. Snout 

 surface convex, abruptly declivous in front and length about f basal 

 width. Eye circular, lower edge falling about level with middle in 

 greatest head depth at occiput, and about first f in head measured 

 from snout to hind edge of opercle. Mouth broadly transverse, a 

 little oblique and with strong, powerful jaws. Maxillary small, well 

 inclined, rather small, its upper hind end entirely concealed by broad 

 infraorbital, though it would reach about opposite middle of eye. lips 

 well developed, mandibular a little thicker. Teeth only in jaws, well 

 compressed, uniserial, all with tips slightly recurved, triangular, and 

 most or at least median ones with a small and often obsolete basal 

 cusp each side. Mandibular teeth much larger than those in upper 

 28 




4"26 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



jaw, all sharply pointed and with entire edges, liuccal fold inside 

 each row of teeth large and fleshy. Tongue broad, depressed, fleshy, 

 rounded and free in front. Mandible large, strong and protruding 

 well beyond snout, surface broadly convex below, and rami but little 

 elevated in mouth, though much deeper at articulation behind than 

 at symphysis. Nostrils large, together, anterior large pore with broad 

 cutaneous flap behind exposing posterior in crescent. Interorbital 

 broadly and evenly convex. Infraorbital width about equals eye, 

 with narrow anterior preorbital moiety. Postero-infraorbital width 

 about equals H eye-diameters, though not extending below to pre- 

 opercle ridge, leaving an elongated unevenly triangular naked region 

 on cheek below, greatest width of which area about 2f in eye. Post- 

 orbital large, nearly equal to greatest width oi postero-infraorbital. 

 Opercle vertical, narrow, greatest width about 3^ its depth or but 

 trifle less than eye. All suborbitals and opercle with conspicuous or 

 well-marked radiating striae, also some coarser and uneven striae in 

 lower hind flange of preopercle. Lower and exposed surfaces of sub- 

 opercle, interopercle and branchiostegals also show a few feeble striae. 

 Cutaneous margin of gill-opening narrow. Upper surface of head 

 covered with smooth skin and a long, narrow median occipital fontanel. 

 Shoulder-girdle little exposed, smooth. 



Gill-opening forward about opposite hind eye edge. Rakers 8 + 12, 

 conic, with rather slender tips, fleshy, pliable, uppermost and lower- 

 most somewhat rudimentary, longest 2 in eye. P'ilaments 1^ in eye. 

 No pseudobranchiae. Gill-membranes form broad fold over isthmus, 

 latter broad and surface slightly convey. Branchiostegals 4, broad, 

 all well exposed. 



Scales small, cycloid, mostly disposed in longitudinal series parallel 

 with 1. 1. and becoming a little enlarged just after gill-opening, along 

 abdominal serrae and behind pectoral base. Caudal base broadly 

 covered with scales but little smaller than those oli caudal peduncle. 

 Anal base also broadly scaly, only outer scales much smaller. A 

 concealed depressed sagittate spine before dorsal origin with apex 

 directed towards head. Small broad-based double spine before anal 

 origin. No axillary scaly flaps to paired fins. L. 1. complete, begins 

 a little high at first, slopes down soon till opposite median axis and 

 then runs straight to caudal base, and also extends over squamation 

 of latter. Tubes rather small, simple, well exposed, but not extending 

 entirely over exposures of scales. Scales not completely passing over 

 predorsal ridge, but leave a narrow naked strip. 



Dorsal origin falls about midw^ay in vertical between eye center and 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 427 



caudal base, first branched ray (tip slightly damaged) evidently 

 longest, and not quite depressed posteriorly far as tip of last ray, fin 

 If to caudal base. Adipose fin inserted about midway between last 

 dorsal ray base and caudal base, fin about 2 to latter. Caudal 

 broad, emarginated behind, lower lobe much larger and stronger, 

 all rays rather osseous. Anal inserted opposite seventh dorsal ray 

 base, rudimentary rays and also first branched, all rather enlarged, 

 osseous and conspicuous, third simple longest with others gi-aduated 

 down about first half of fin, after which all of about uniform height. 

 Pectoral inserted low, pointed, about 1* to anal, or tip at least a little 

 beyond ventral origin in vertical. \ entral inserted a little before 

 dorsal or about midway in vertical between pectoral and anal origins, 

 reaches about 1 J to anal. Vent close before anal, but without abdomi- 

 nal serrse extending along sides. Last abdominal serrature (counted 

 one above) a series of 3 small transverse spines in front of vent. 



Color when fresh in rum with back brilliant steel-blue, more or less 

 dusky and brownish in some lights. Upper s\u-face of head dusky- 

 brown, becoming paler on sides and ruddy-vermilion on lower surface. 

 Ijips dusky like top of head. Iris deep brown, tinged with deep red- 

 dish. Teeth shining white. Abdomen brilliant vermilion, fading 

 i-osy and paler above and behind. P'lanks grayish-brown with irides- 

 cent bluish of more or less paler tints than back, and all this region 

 down to base of anal with inconspicuous deeper ill-defined spots, all 

 of which much more clearly where scales have fallen. These obscure 

 .spots all small, mostly rounded, and apparently larger than pupil. 

 A broad jet-black blotch of large size, about equal in extent to entire 

 postero-suborbital area, at beginning of 1. 1. just after gill-opening. 

 Dorsal deep dusky, also caudal largely similar, with rather broad 

 submargmal diffuse brownish or paler area concurrent with much 

 narrower blackish edge along hind emargination. Adipose fin dusk}' 

 or blackish. Anal largely vermilion, scaly base reddish-brown, and 

 lower edge narrowly dusky. Pectoral and ventral brilliant vermilion, 

 latter with slight dusky tinge distally. Peritoneum whitish. 



Length 5 inches. 



Type No. 37,868, A. N. S. P. La Pedrita, on the Cano Uracoa, 

 Venezuela. February 16th, 1911. F. E. Bond and Stewardson Brown. 



Also No. 37,869, A. N. S. P., paratype, with same data. Head 2|; 

 depth If'o ; D. ii, 16, i; A. iii, 27, i; scales in 1. I. according to tubes 

 77+7; scales in lateral series counted along course of 1. 1. above 

 103 + 12; 40 scales above 1. 1. to dorsal origin; 40 scales below 1. 1. 

 to anal origin; about 40 scales below I. 1. to ventral origin; about 59 




428 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [^^ay, 



predorsal scales; snout 3| in head measured from upper jaw tip; 

 eye 4f ; maxillary 2J; interorbital 2f. Abdominal serrae 14 + 8. 

 This example otherwise agrees in most all respects. Length about 4 

 inches. 



Although this species agrees very well with the diagnosis of Serra- 

 salmo (Pygocentrus) notatus Liitken,' the latter is too insufficiently 

 described for positive identification. Liitken's examples were 9 

 inches long, and thus the smaller eye he gives as 3 in the interorbital 

 and 6 in the head, may be due to age ? Liitken also says the head is 

 3 in the body, without caudal. The only feature of coloration he 

 mentions is the black shoulder spot. My examples show the eye half 

 the interorbital width. 



(Iri/fiUj brand, with reference to the large black post-scapular 

 blotch; ^£puOpaio<s, reddish, referring to the abdomen.) 

 Serrasalmus ooooogenis sp. nov. Fig. 4. 



Head 3i; depth 1|; D. ii, 14, i; A. iii, 29, i; P. i, 14; V. i, 6; 

 scales in 1. 1. according to tubes 64 + 6; scales counted above 1. 1. 

 along its course 87 + 8; 33 scales above 1. 1. to dorsal origin; 34 

 scales below 1. 1. to anal origin; 30 scales below 1. 1. to ventral origin; 

 49 predorsal scales; head width about 1| its length; head depth at 

 occiput about 1; mandible 2§; first branched dorsal ray If; third 

 simple anal ray 21 ; least depth caudal peduncle 3 ; upper caudal lobe 

 (tip slightly damaged) about li; lower caudal lobe lyV? pectoral If; 

 ventral 2f ; snout 4 in head measured from upper jaw tip; eye 3^; 

 maxillary 3; interorbital 2f. 



Body deep, strongly compressed, contour slightly ovoid with greatest 

 depth at dorsal origin, predorsal edge a little trenchant, postdorsal 

 with only very slight median keel, abdominal edge trenchant with 

 23 + 10 serrae, and other body edges rounded convexly. Caudal 

 peduncle well compressed, length f its least depth. 



Head heavy, compressed, profiles similarly inclined, upper slightly 

 convex and then equally concave, lower slightly convex. Flattened 

 head sides scarcely constricted below. Snout surface convex, obtuse 

 in front, and its length about half its basal width. Eye circular, but 

 slightly elevated above middle in head depth and about first yy in 

 head length between snout tip and hind edge of gill-opening. Mouth 

 broadly transverse, a little inclined, and with strong jaws. Maxillary 

 well inclined, rather small, its upper posterior end entirely concealed 

 by broad infraorbital, though it reaches about opposite front pupil 



3 Vidensk. Meddel. For. Kjobenh., 1874, p. 238 (240). 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 429 



edge. Lips rather thin, mandibular little better developed. Teeth 

 only in jaws, well compressed, imiserial, all with tips slightly inclined 

 inward, each tooth triangular with broad base and slight cusp each 

 side, these becoming obsolete only on posterior teeth. Cutting-edges 

 of teeth mostly with at least obsolete or feeble minute serrae, usually 

 better developed towards basal cusps when present. Mandibular 

 teeth considerably larger than upper ones. Buccal fold inside mouth 

 along each row of teeth, large and fleshy. Tongue depressed, surface 



Fig. 4. — SerrasalmnJi coccogenis Fowler. Type. 



level, rather pointed, and free in front with rounded tip. Mandible 

 well protruding, moderate, strong, surface rather well convex below, 

 and rami little elevated in mouth, though much deeper at posterior 

 articulation than at symphysis. Nostrils large, together, both as 

 simple large pores with broad cutaneous flap of anterior exposing 

 posterior in crescent. Interorbital broadly and evenly convex. 

 Infraorbital width If in eye, with narrow preorbital anterior pro- 

 jection. Postero-infraorbital width about If in eye, though not 

 extending below to preopercle ridge, leaving an elongated and somewhat 

 crescentic naked region on cheek below, greatest width of latter about 




430 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



2| in eye. Postorbital large, about as wide as postero-infraorbital. 

 Opercle narrow, inclined slightly forward, its width about 3f its depth. 

 Suborbitals, opercle, small marginal area of supraorbital, lower 

 limb of preopercle, exposed portions of shoulder-girdle, subopercle, 

 interopercle and lower or exposed portions of branchiostegals with 

 radiating striae. On suborbitals and opercle striae quite numerous 

 and fine, on lower limb of preopercle coarse and irregular, and quite 

 feeble on subopercle, interopercle and branchiostegals. Upper head 

 surface covered with smooth skin, and median occipital fontanel 

 moderate. 



Gill-opening forward about opposite front pupil edge. Rakers vi 

 2 + 7, compressed, rather weak, flexible, pointed, about 3 in filaments. 

 Latter 1^ in eye. No pseudobranchiap. Gill-membranes form 

 rather broad free fold over isthmus, latter well constricted in front 

 and broad behind, its surface slightly convex. Branchiostegals 4, 

 well compressed, upper rather long, and all rather broad. 



Scales small, cycloid, mostly disposed in series parallel with 1. 1., 

 and becoming a little enlarged just after gill-opening and pectoral 

 base. Caudal base broadly covered with scales like those on caudal 

 peduncle. Anal base broadly scaly, and scales but little smaller than 

 those on trunk above. A concealed sagittate-shaped spine before 

 dorsal origin, apex directed towards occiput. Small broad-based 

 double spine before anal origin. No axillary scaly flaps to paired 

 fins. L. 1. complete, begins a little high at first, then slopes from 

 shoulder down to about opposite median axis, when straight to 

 caudal, also extending out on squamous area of latter. Tubes simple, 

 rather small, well exposed and not quite reaching across scale exposures. 

 Narrow median naked strip along predorsal edge, over which scales 

 do not pass and extending from occiput to dorsal. 



Dorsal origin trifle nearer caudal base than mandible tij), first 

 branched ray longest, falling well short of tip of last when depressed, 

 fin li to caudal base. Adipose fin inserted about midway between 

 eleventh dorsal ray base and caudal base, fin about 2 to latter. Caudal 

 broad, emarginated behind, lower lobe much larger and stronger, all 

 rays rather osseous. Anal inserted about opposite ninth dorsal ray 

 base, rudimentary rays well compressed, osseous and enlarged, third 

 longest, first branched ray strong and longest in fin, others graduated 

 down about first third in fin, after which all of about uniform length. 

 Pectoral inserted low, moderate, upper rays longest, reaches opposite 

 ventral origin in vertical. Ventral inserted a little before dorsal or 

 about midway between pectoral and anal origins in vertical, fin 1| to 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 431 



anal origin. Vent close before anal, but abdominal serrse not along 

 sides. Last abdominal serrature (counted as one above) a series of 

 3 small transverse spines before vent. 



Color when fresh in rum with back bright or shining metallic-bluish 

 in some lights, ground-color grayish-brown, and many obscure under- 

 laid and rather crowded small pale dusky spots, these all much less 

 than pupil, mostly only prominent above 1. 1. and scarcely evident 

 below. Midway between dorsal origin and 1. 1. spots a little larger 

 and more sparsely distributed than others. At shoulder above, just 

 behind upper portion of exposed shoulder-girdle bones at beginning 

 of 1. 1., a blackish blotch nearly equal to eye in extent, and of rather 

 irregular triangular shape. Side of body below 1. 1. with general pale 

 or whitish shade, but along its upper regions quite soiled with dull 

 brownish, made up of minute dots. Head dull brownish above, sides 

 tinged dull rosy, upper sides with olivaceous reflections, and under 

 surface brilliant vermilion about brauchiostegals and lower preopercle 

 limb. From latter point all lower surface of head tinged or blushed 

 rosy. Opercle ruddy, with smutty tints. Lips dusky. -Iris deep 

 and warm brownish. Chest, breast, axillary region of pectoral, and 

 all region about abdominal serrse brilliant or blushed vermilion. 

 Serrse on abdomen pale or whitish, like teeth. Dorsals and caudal 

 dusky largely. Rayed dorsal somewhat tinged with olivaceous, and 

 adipose fin rather brownish. Caudal margin behind blackish, also 

 base, and intervening region brownish. Inside mouth and gill- 

 opening pale. Anal ruddy vermilion basally, margin dusky-black. 

 Pectoral and ventral brownish, ruddy basally. 



Length 4| inches. 



Type No. 37,870, A. N. S. P. La Pedrita, on the Cano Uracoa, 

 Venezuela. February 16th, 1911. F. E. Bond and Stewardson 

 Brown. 



Head 3 to 3^; depth If to If; D. usually ii, 14, i, often ii, 15, i, 

 rarely ii, 13, i; A. usually iii, 30, i, often iii, 29, i, rarely iii, 28, i; 

 scales in I. 1. according to tubes 58 to 69 + 5 to 7 ; scales counted in 

 lateral series above 1. 1. 78 to 80 + 7 or 8; predorsal scales 47 to 53; 

 scales above 1. I. to dorsal origin 30 to 35; scales below 1. 1. to ventral 

 origin 25 to 30; scales below I. 1. to anal origin 30 to 35; abdominal 

 serrse usually 21, sometimes 22, rarely 14-1-9; snout 3f to 4^ in head 

 measured from upper jaw tip; eye 21 to 3+; maxillary 2| to 3; inter- 

 orbital 2^ to 2f ; length 2f to 4^ inches. These examples all agree 

 largely with the type, except that the two smallest show posteriorly 

 on each palatine a small tooth. In color they also differ somewhat in 




432 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADlEMY OF [May, 



having the dark spots of the back quite large, rather sparse and con- 

 spicuous, even below the 1. 1. and to the caudal base. They also have 

 less ruddy on the under surface of the body. Nos. 37,871 to 37,875, 

 A. N, S. P., paratypes, with same data as type. 



The true generic position of this species would appear somewhat 

 doubtful, if the diagnosis of Pygopristis Miiller and Troschel is allowed 

 on its most important character, and that the absence of palatine 

 teeth. None of my large examples have any palatine teeth, and in 

 the 2 small ones there is only a single simple small conic cusp on each 

 palatine bone, except in one instance where 2. Thus P. serrulatus 

 Valenciennes* may be found identical, though that writer does not 

 inention any dark blotches on the side of the body, and yet he does 

 say there are some traces of the dark shoulder-spot. 



Serrasalmus carihe Valenciennes^ differs in the D. 20, A. 27, and no 

 scapular spot is mentioned or represented on the figure. It may also 

 be noted that Serrasalmo albus Humboldt and Valenciennes® is evi- 

 dently an older name for S. carihe, and should therefore replace it. 

 Serrasalmus rhomheus (Linnaeus) differs according to Miiller and 

 ^roschel's figure^ in having more palatine teeth. 



S. marginatus (Valenciennes) differs in the lower anal edge being 

 black only, but not the hind caudal edge. Both S. spilopleura (Kner) 

 and S. gymnogenys (Glinther) are said to have 95 scales. S. elongatus 

 (Kner) differs in its elongated contour, the depth 2|. S. gibbus Cas- 

 telnau apparently has no spots whatever on the trunk. S. brandtii 

 (Llitken) has the scales 90, and the coloration is largely uniform or 

 with minute blackish dots. 



Among the species I have examined, S. humeralis Valenciennes, 

 S. maculatus Kner, S. cesopus Cope, S. iridopsis Cope and S. unimacu- 

 latus Cope, all were found to have more palatine teeth in each series, 

 besides various other characters. 



S. paraensis (Steindachner) I have not seen, and also have not been 

 able to consult its original description. 



(Koxxo?^ berry-red; yhtw^, cheek; with reference to the ruddy cheek.) 



GASTEROPELECIN^. 

 CkaloinuB elongatus Gtinther. 



Head 4 to 4f ; depth 3^ to 3|; D. ii, 9, i; A. iii, 25, i to iii, 28, i; 

 scales in 1. 1. 38 to 40 -h 4 or 5; 7 scales above 1. 1. ; 3 scales below 1. I. 



^Hist. Nat. Poiss., XXII, 1849, p. 224. 

 , » L. c, p. 208. 

 • Obs. z. Comp., II, 183.5, p. 173, PI. 47, fig. 1. Orinoco R. 

 ' Hot. Ich., I, 1845, PI. 2, fig. 4. 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 433 



to anal origin; 1 scale below 1. 1. to ventral origin; 21 to 23 predorsal 

 scales; snout 3f to 4 in head measured from upper jaw tip; eye 3 J 

 to 3f ; maxillary 2f to 3; interorbital 3 to 3^; gill-rakers 12 to 14 + 24 

 to 28. Snout obtuse, surface convex, length about f its basal width. 

 Adipose eyelid moderate, pupil vertical, ellipsoid. Maxillary vertical, 

 to front eye edge. Lips rather thin. Usually, though sometimes 

 absent, a pair of inner symphyseal mandibular small conic teeth. 

 Each maxillary with 2 small teeth. Mandible slightly protruding. 

 Interorbital well convex. Suborbital length about equals postocular. 

 Gill-opening extends forward about opposite eye front. On thorax 

 median series of scales largest. Pointed free axillary pectoral and 

 ventral scaly flaps well developed. Color when fresh in rum largely 

 bright silvery- white, back and upper surface with brilliant blue-green 

 shade and largely brownish to dusky ground-color. Head brownish 

 above, silvery-white on sides. Iris deep reddish-dusky. Lips brown- 

 ish. Fins mostly olivaceous-dusky, lower pectoral rays, ventral 

 and anal paler. Length 6^ inches. La Pedrita, on the Cano Uracoa. 

 February 16th, 1911. Five examples. 



This species is undoubtedly related to the specimen I have identified 

 with Chalcinus hrachipomus A'alenciennes, from Guiana.^ It agrees 

 in the enlarged median lateral series of thoracic scales, and moderate 

 adipose eyelid. From Castelnau's figure of Chalcinus auritus Valen- 

 ciennes, it appears that species is also related, but it would differ in 

 the hind caudal edge being convex. Possibly the enlarged median 

 series of thoracic scales may be a character of subgeneric value, and 

 for this group of species, the subgenus Chalcinus Valenciennes, type 

 C. hrachipomus Valenciennes, may be restricted. For the others the 

 subgenus Triportheus Cope, type T. fUivus Cope, may be used. It is, 

 however, not possible to locate the other species satisfactorily, as they 

 have been little studied and mostly imperfectly described. C. albus 

 (Cope) and C. magdalence Steindachner, however, seem allied with 

 Triportheus (C angulatus group). 



ERYTHRININ^. 

 Hoplias malabarieus (Bloch). _^ 



Three from Pedernales on January 27th. 



SILURIDiE. 

 AUCHENIPTERIN.^^. 

 Fseudaaoheuipterus guppyi Regan. 



Two specimens from Pedernales taken January 26th, and both 



*Proc. Acad. I^at. Sci. Phila., 1906, p. 449, fig. 43. 




434 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May. 



agree wi4;h Regan's description.* Surely, his figure on Plate 23 is 

 also identical, though the legend reads Pseudauchenipterus pase(i\ 

 while on Plate 24 it reads as the present species, and thus the latter 

 is truly P. pasece. 

 Fseadauchenipterus nig^rolineatus sp. nov. Fig. 5. 



Head 3f ; depth 3f ; 1). i, 6; A. iii, 18; P, i, 6; V. i, 7; head width 

 lyV its length; head depth at occiput li; snout 3f; eyeSf; maxil- 

 lary 3§; mouth width 2*; interorbital 1^; antero-internasal 3^; pec- 

 toral ly^; vientral 1^; third simple anal ray 1^; least depth caudal 

 peduncle 2f . 



Body compressed, anteriorly robust, deepest at dorsal origin, and 

 edges all convex. Caudal peduncle well compressed, least depth 

 about 1* its length. 



Head robust, upper profile nearly straight from snout tip to dorsal 

 origin and little more inclined than lower profile, slightly convex sides 

 a little converging above and very broad below, with under surface 

 convex. Snout broadly depressed, its length about 1| its gi-eatest 

 width. Eye ellipsoid, inclined a little posteriorly, about midway in 

 depth of head near first third head length, as seen in jjrofile. Adipose 

 eyelid well developed, completely covering eye. Mouth small, broadly 

 transverse, commissure short. Band of villiform teeth in each jaw, 

 moderately broad, and these dental areas simple. No other teeth in 

 mouth. Tongue broad, fleshy, thick, not free, depressed. Maxillary 

 barbel slender, reaches about f in depressed pectoral .spine. Foiu- 

 equally spaced mental barbels, outer reaches about middle in de- 

 pressed pectoral spine and inner about first tenth. Internasal spaces 

 about equally spaced, and space between front and hind nostril about 

 2 in internasal. Interorbital broad, depressed, and with very slight 

 concave transverse area anteriorly. Frontal region with bones 

 greatly perforate or honeycombed, and median fontanel opening 

 broadly in front. Occipital, and lateral contiguous bones, also pre- 

 dorsal plate, all finely rugose-striate. Opercle broadly triangular, 

 and like all skin on side of head and snout, smooth. Antero-supra- 

 orbital process swollen. 



Gill-opening extends froward last | in head. Rakers 8 + 14, 

 short, firm, mostly well bifurcated, about 2^ in filaments. liatter 

 about equal eye. No pseudobranchiae. I-Jranchiostegals 4, slender, 

 rather long. 



Body covered with smooth skin. Head rugose on portions men- 



» Proc. Zool. Soc. Londan, Jan.-April, 1906, p. aS7. 




1911.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 



435 



tioned, also large part of dorsal spine basally, hind projection of 

 shoulder-girdle and pectoral spine slightly basally. Shoulder-girdle 

 anteriorly, and above articulation of pectoral spine, swollen, its 

 surface smooth. L. 1. median, rather tortuous in its course, and with 

 numerous small bifurcations, complete. 



Dorsal origin trifle behind last third in space between snout tip and 

 caudal base, spine long, nearly straight, much longer than head or 

 equals space between snout tip and hind edge of posterior projection 



Fig. .5. — P!<eudauchenipterus nigrolineatus Fowler. Type. 



of shoulder-girdle, greatly swollen at each side basally, and its hind 

 surface with numerous antrorse serrae. Dorsal radii slender, first 

 but little shorter than spine and others rapidly graduated down. 

 Adipose fin inserted about last third in space between dorsal origin 

 and caudal base, fin 3 to latter. Anal inserted about midway between 

 base of first dorsal ray and caudal base, third simple ray longest, 

 rays evenly graduated down with edge of fin entire. Caudal well 

 forked, a little longer than head, lobes slender, pointed, equal. Pec- 

 toral depressed about |- to ventral, with spine longest, then first ray 

 but little shorter and others rapidly graduated down. Pectoral 

 spine with inner margin evenly and finely serrated antrorsely. ^'en- 

 tral inserted about midway between hind end of posterior projection 

 of shoulder-girdle and anal origin, fin about * to latter. Vent close 

 before anal. 




486 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



Color when fresh in rum largely deep slaty-dusky or blackish, below 

 whitish. A pale or whitish streak along 1. 1. to middle of caudal base 

 bifuracating on caudal base to form a semi-ocellus at base of each 

 caudal lobe. Posteriorly on caudal base this whitish bifurcation 

 still margined dusky or blackish. Head and casque above mostly 

 tinted olivaceous-dusky. Along each side of back, from below base 

 of rayed dorsal about a dozen transverse series of very small white 

 round spots, and in each series many as 4 or 5 sometimes, but only 

 tower 2 of each at all distinct or conspicuous. Iris brownish. Lips 

 whitish. Barbels whitish basally, otherwise grayish, though maxil- 

 lary a little more browTiish. Dorsal whitish, basally blackish, spine 

 pale, and rays distally dusky. Adipose fin whitish. Caudal largely 

 dusky to blackish, rays a little paler than membranes. Anal whitish, 

 anterior longer rays medianly slightly dusky. Pectoral largely 

 whitish, grayish above, ^'entral whitish. 



Length 7^ inches. 



Type No. 37,876, A. N. S. P. Pedernales, Venezuela. January 

 26th, 19n. F. E. Bond and Stewardson Brown. 



Head 3f to 4; depth 4 to 5; D. i, 5; A. iii, 16 to iii, 18; snout 3f 

 to 3^ in head; eye 3f to 4|; mouth width 2^; interorbital If to 2; 

 length 7| to 8f inches. The dorsal and pectoral spines are quite 

 variable and all much shorter than in the type. Nos. 37,877 and 

 37,878, A. N. 8. P., paratypes, same date as type. 



This species is related to P. guppyi Regan, but differs in the com- 

 plete dark lateral band longitudinally below the 1. 1. 



(Niger, black; linea, line; with reference to the complete black 

 infero-lateral band.) 



LORIOARIID^. 

 Plecostomus verres (Valenciennes). 



Two from Pedernales on January 27th. 



OALLIOHTHYID^. 

 Hoplosternum littorale (Hancock). 



One adult from La Pedrita, on the Cano Uracoa, on February 16th. 

 Hoplosternum thoraoatum (Valenciennes). 



One small example with the last. 



PCEOILIIDiB. 

 Anableps miorolepis Mailer and Troschel. 



Three from Pedernales on January 25th. 




191 li] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHIliADELPHIA. 437 



OIOHLID^. 

 Astronotas ooellatus (Agassiz). 



One from La Pedrita, on the Cano Uracoa, on February 12th. Color 

 when fresh nearly uniform blackish, with bright orange cu-cle a little 

 less than orbit in size, a little above middle of caudal base. 



TETRODONTIDiE. 

 Colomesus psittaous (Schneider). 



Three from Tucapeta, on the Rio Manimo, on February 22d. 

 One adult from Pedernales on January 27th. 



BATRAOHOIDIDiE. 

 Batrachoides surinamensis (Schneider). 



One from Pedernales on January 27th. ' 



Faunal Works. 



Peters, Wilhelm. 1877. Ueber die von Herrn Dr. C. Sachs in Venezuela 



gesammelten Fische. Monatsb. Ak. Wiss. Berlin, July 26, 1877, pp. 469- 



473. 

 Ernst, Adolfo. 1877. Estudios sobre la Flora y Fauna de Venezuela. 



Caradas, 1877, pp. 281-283. 

 Garces, Modesto. 1890. Un Viaje a Venezuela. Bogota, Roldan and Zarnago. 



(Not consulted.) 

 Pellegrin, Jaques. 1899. Note sur les Poissons recueilles par M. F. Geay 



dans 1' Apurc et ses affluents. Bull. Mus. Hist. Nat., Paris, 1899, pp. 15(i-159. 

 Regan, C. T. 1903. Description of a new fish of the genus Clia;tostomu4> 



from Venezuela. An. Mag. Nat. Hist. (7), XI, 1903, p. 599. 

 1905. Description of a new Loricariid fish of the genus Xenocara 



from Venezuela. Novitates Zool., XII, Jan., 1905, p. 242. 

 BouLENGER, G. A. 1903. Description of a new fish of the genus Arges from 



Venezuela. An. Mag. Nat. Hist. (7), XI, 1903, pp. 601-2. 




438 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[May, 



A NEW ECPHORA OF THE CHESAPEAKE MIOCENE. 

 BY HENRY A. PILSBRY. 



Eophora parvicostata n. sp. Fig. l. 



The shell is shaped like the more globose forms of Ecphora quadri- 

 costata (Say); the umbilicus moderate, rapidly contracting inward, 

 not so ample as in E. q. umbilicata ("Wagner). The last whorl has 

 four very low, narrow spiral ribs; the surface above the upper rib 

 slopes \ipward to the suture, immediately below which it is a little 

 swollen. The s])iral ril:>s ai'e stronger on the .spire, where two are 



Kig. 1. — Ecphora parvicoMatn, natural size. 



exposed, the suture i-evolving on the third.- Between the ribs there 

 are irregular growth-wrinkles, but no spiral stria^. 



Length 82, diam. 70 mm. (apical whorls wanting). 



Three specimens of this form were found in a tray together with 

 Ecphora quadricostata umbilicata (Wagner) and E. tricostata Martin, 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 439 



in the Museum of the Academy, labelled " Ecphora quadricostata , 

 Maryland." The former of these occurs in various beds of the Chop- 

 tank formation, the latter in the underlying Calvert formation, so 

 that no more definite locality and horizon can be given than Chesa- 

 peake Miocene. 



While all of the P^cphoras are variable shells, yet in the large 

 series in the collection of the Academy this species seems detached 

 from those hitherto defined' by the extreme weakness of the ribs 

 in the adult stage and the sloping shoulder. The types of E. parvi- 

 costata are No. 1,514, A. N. S. P., collector unknown. 



See Marijland Geological Siirrei/, Miocene, pp. 207-21 1 , 1904. 




440 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



SOME ARACHNIDA FROM NORTH CAROLINA. 



BY NATHAN BANK8. 



The material upon which this article is based was collected by Prof. 

 J. H. Emerton, Mr. William Beutenmiiller, and the writer, mostly in 

 the mountainous, western part of the State. Prof. Emerton, during 

 a collecting trip in the South in 1903, stopped at a number of localities 

 in North Carolina. His itinerary was about as follows: 



Durham, 8 and 9 July; Chapel Hill, 10 July; Salisbury, 12 July; 

 Moiganton, 12 July; Pineola, 14 July; Road to Roan Mt., 15 July; 

 Roan Mt. Summit, 15 to 18 July; Linville, 19 July; Blowing Rock, 

 19 July; Paint Rock, 20 July; Asheville, 23 July; Balsam, 24 July; 

 and Black Mt., Aug. 1 to 3. 



My. Beutenmiiller collected for several seasons in the valley of the 

 Black Mountains for the American Museum of Natural History. The 

 spiders were sent to me for identification. The writer spent the last 

 two weeks of May, 1910, in the same valley visited by Mr. Beuten- 

 miiller. This valley is on the north fork of the Swannanoa River, 

 about five miles from Black Mountain Station. The altitude is about 

 2,500 or 2,600 feet; and most of the collecting was done below 3,000 

 feet. Some specimens were taken on the summit of Mt. Graybeard, 

 a neighboring peak, 5,548 feet high. 



The spider fauna of these western mountains is similar in many 

 respects to that found in New York and New England. Some few 

 species, such as Hypochilus and Nemastoma, indicate the remnants of a 

 fauna once connected with that of the Northwestern United States 

 and China, or Mongolia. Why these few forms, so long resident in 

 these mountain valleys, have failed to spread, will, doubtless, long 

 be a puzzling question. There is apparently nothing in their habits 

 to justify such a restricted habitat. 



HYPOOHIIilD^. 

 Hypochilus thorelli Marx. 



Paint Rock; Balsam; Swannanoa Valley, up Sugar Fork, hanging 

 under rocks near stream. 



SOYTODIDiE. 

 Scytodes thoraoioa Latr. 

 Durham. 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 441 



PHOLOID^. 

 Pholcns phalangoides Fuessl. 



Chapel Hill, Salisbury. . ..: . 



DYSDERIDiE. 



Ariadne bicolor Htz. 

 Paint Rock. 



DRASSID^. ^^ ; 



Sergiolus variegatus Htz. 



Black Mts. (Beutenmiiller). 

 Sergiolus cyaneoventris Simon. 



From Southern Pines (Manee). 

 Zelotes atra Htz. 



Roan Mt. Summit, Swannanoa Valley. 

 Zelotes depressa Emer. PI. XXXIV, fig. l. 



Swannanoa Valley. 

 Zelotes frigida Banks. 



Swannanoa Valley. 

 Callilepis femoralis n. sp. PI. XXXV, fig. 11. 



Cephalothorax pale red-brown, margin darker; mandibles red- 

 brown; sternum and coxae pale yellowish-brown; abdomen deep black; 

 legs pale, but femora and tibiae I and II black, and densely black- 

 haired. Eyes about as in C. imbecilla, the rows very short, and the 

 S. E. perhaps a little larger than in C. imbecilla; sternum a little longer 

 than broad; abdomen truncate at base, depressed; legs long and 

 slender, the metatarsi and tarsi longer than usual in the genus; tibia 

 I and II with three pairs of spines below, the last apical, two pairs 

 below these metatarsi, tarsus I only a little shorter than metatarsus I. 



Length 10 mm. 



From Mt. Graybeard, N. Car., 23 May, 1910. Differs from C. 

 imbecilla in longer legs, and darker femora and tibiae I and II. 

 Callilepis imbecilla Keys. 



Balsam, Swannanoa Valley, among dead leaves. 

 Drassus robustus Emer. 



Swannanoa Valley, among leaves. 



OLUBIONID^. 

 Clnbiona abbotti Koch. 



Balsam, Mt. Graybeard, Swannanoa Valley, in dead leaves of 

 Rhododendron. 

 29 




442 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



Clubiona orassipalpit Keys. 



Swannanoa Valley, in curled Rhododendron leaves. 

 Clubiona pallens Htz. 



Swannanoa Valley, one female. 

 Clubiona canadensis Emer. • 



Linville. 

 Chiraoanthium inclasnm Htz. 



Chapel Hill. 

 Traohelas tranquilla Htz. 



Swannanoa Valley, one female. 

 Castianeira pinnata Emer. 



Blowing Rock, one female. 

 Phmrolitlias alarins Htz. 



Swannanoa Valley, common under stones; this is P. palustris Bks. 

 Phrarolithns sp. 



One female from Balsam; this is the form that Emerton figured 

 as female of P. alarius; he will describe it as new. 

 Phrarolithas formica Banks. 



Swannanoa Valley, under stones; I have seen this species from 

 Missouri, 



Gayenna peotorosa Koch. 



Mt. Graybeard, Swarmanoa Valley, in dead leaves. 



Oayenna saltabunda Hts. 

 Durham. 



Mioaria agilis Bks. 



Chapel Hill, road to Roan Mt., Pineola. 



Sootinella »■ gea. 



Clubionid, maxillae rather short, inclined over the lip, lip broader 

 than long, eyes similar to Liocranum, posterior eye-row straight, the 

 P. M. E. slightly elliptical, dorsal groove present; spinnerets short; 

 legs slender, without spines, except two on anterior femora, and a 

 double series of long ones beneath tibiae and metatarsi I and II, no 

 spines on hind legs; claws long, not much curved, with small teeth 

 near base. Differs from Scotina, Liocrannum, Agroeca, and Apostenus 

 in absence of spines on the hind legs. 



Sootinella pallida n. sp. PI. XXXIV, fig. 7. 



Cephalothorax uniform yellowish, sternum and legs paler; abdomen 

 whitish; all clothed with short hairs, dense on abdomen, sparse on 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 443 



cephalothorax. Cephalothorax a little longer than broad, broad in 

 front, gi'oove distinct; eyes as figured, mandibles moderately stout, 

 each with a prominent erect bristle on middle of front; abdomen 

 truncate at base, rather slender, sternum nearly as long as broad, 

 broadest behind coxae II, somewhat 7-sided, rounded at tip. Legs 

 slender, with short hairs, spines only as follows: two long, erect ones 

 on middle of femur I, a double row of six each under tibia I, a double 

 row under metatarsus I, 4 on inner side, 3 on outer side; beneath 

 tibia II, 5 pairs, and under metatarsus II, 3 pairs, none of these are 

 apical, and all very long. 



Last joint of palpus densely clothed with short spine-like bristles. 



Length 2.3 mm. 



From Black Mt., north fork of the Swannanoa River, May, under 

 dead leaves in forest. 



AGBLENID^. 

 Agelena nsevia Htz. 



Morganton, Linville, Murphy, Blowing Rock, Pineola, Durham, 

 Black Mt., Swannanoa Valley, not common. 

 Tegenaria derhami Scop. 



Roan Mt. Summit, Salisbury, Paint Rock, Swannanoa Valley, 

 Cybaeus giganteus Bks. 



Balsam, Black Mts. (Beutenmiiller). 

 Coras medioinalis Htz. 



Balsam. 

 Ccelotes oaloarata Keys. 



Mt. Graybeard, one female, male and female from Swannanoa 

 Valley, Black Mts., Sept. (Beutenmiiller), 



Cicurina arooata Keys. 



Balsam, Swannanoa Valley, 



Cicurina brevis Emer. 



Roan Mt. Summit, Black Mts., Sept. (Beutenmiiller). 

 Habnia agilis Keys. 



Roan Mt., Chapel Hill, Swannanoa Valley. 



DIOTYNIDiE. 

 Diotyna foliacea Htz. 



Pineola, Mt. Graybeard, Swannanoa Valley, common, • 

 Diotyna sublata Htz. 



Morganton, Durham. 




444 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



Dictyna armata n. sp. PI. XXXIV, fig. 9. 



Male; cephalothorax reddish-brown, rather paler on the head, with 

 white hairs; abdomen reddish-brown through the middle of dorsum, 

 blackish on base and sides, the posterior dorsum often broken up by- 

 blackish bands, sometimes dorsum mostly all dark, with a pair of 

 pale spots in front, one on each side before middle, and a row of pale 

 spots behind in middle; legs very pale; venter and sternum pale. 

 Female, cephalothorax pale yellowish through the middle, sides 

 brownish, almost black on lower sides of head ; abdomen pale yellow- 

 ish, a faint dark spear-mark on base, two rows of brown spots behind, 

 and the sides with dark marks; venter and sternum wholly pale, 

 unmarked; legs very pale, and very slender, the abdomen rather 

 short, broad, and flat. The male palpus has a very long tibial spur, 

 which is faintly bifid at tip, and bears two bristles. 



Length c? 1.5 mm.; 9 1.4 mm. 



From north fork Swannanoa River, Black Mountain, N. Car.; 

 the webs were found in dead, curled Rhododendron leaves lying on 

 the ground. 

 Amaurobius bennetti Blackw. 



Roan Mt. Summit, Blowing Rock. 



THERIDIID^. 

 Tberidinm tepidariorum Koch. 



Paint Rock, Linville, Pineola, Chapel Hill, Swannanoa Valley. 



Theridium rupicola Emer. 



Paint Rock, Swannanoa Valley, quite common under stones. 

 Theridium punctosparsum Emer. 



Balsam, Swannanoa Valley, beating Rhododendron leaves. 



Theridium spirale Emer. 



Swannanoa Valley, only one taken, sweeping. 

 Theridium differens Emer. 



Durham, Road to Roan Mt., Balsam, Swannanoa Valley. 

 Theridium atramoutanum n. sp. PI. XXXV, fig. 12. 



Cephalothorax yellowish, with a brown median stripe from eyes 

 to tip, sometimes broken up near eyes. Legs yellowish (c?), in $ 

 whitish with the femora I yellowish near tip. Abdomen gi-ayish- 

 white, reticulate above, with a basal, median brown mark, one on 

 each lower' anterior side, and two rows of three or four dark spots on 

 the posterior middle of the dorsum, sometimes these dark marks 

 outline a pale median stripe; venter and sternum pale unmarked. 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. ' 445 



Of the general structure and shape of T. diff evens, the male abdomen 

 rather low, the female Epeira-shaped. Legs long and slender. 



Length 9 , 2 to 2.5 mm.; d^, 2 to 2.3 mm., femora I (d^), 2 mm.; 

 tibia plus patella, 2.1 mm.; metatarsus, 1.9 mm. 



From north fork Swannanoa River, Black Mountain, N. Car.; 

 usually found under the leaves of the lowland Rhododendrons. 

 Theridium murarium Emer. 



Linville, Durham. 

 Theridium blandum Htz. 



Blowing Rock, Swannanoa Valley; sweeping. 

 Theridium frondeum Htz. 



Road to Roan Mt., Pineola, Blowing Rock, Swannanoa Valley. 

 Theridium globosum Htz. 



Swannanoa Valley, one. 

 Theridula sphserula Htz. 



Morganton, Durham, Murphy, Blowing Rock, Pineola, Swannanoa 

 Valley. 

 Euryopis funebris Htz. 



Black Mts. (Beutenmiiller). 



Dipoena nigra Emer. 



Swannanoa Valley, sweeping. 



Fedanostethus riparius Keys. 



Road to Roan Mt. 

 Steatoda borealis Htz. 



Linville, Murphy, Pineola. 

 Enoplognatha marmorata Htz. 



Pineola, Roan Mt. Summit, Swannanoa Valley, under stones. 

 Teutana triangulosa Walck. 



Chapel Hill. 



Crustulina guttata Reuss. 



Swannanoa Valley, among dead fallen leaves. 

 Asagena amerioana Emer. 



LinvUle, one. 

 Lathrodectes mactans Fabr. 



Morganton, Swannanoa Valley, Black Mts. (Beutenmiiller). 



Epesinus amoenus n. sp. PI. XXXV, figs. 13, 15. 



Cephalothorax pale, with a broad dark stripe over head and back 

 to near the tip, a more or less distinct dark streak near or on the sides, 




446 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



eyes surrounded by black. Dorsum of abdomen grayish or blackish 

 as far back as the humps, the sides and hind margin of this dark is 

 edged with white ; behind paler, but darker again toward tip ; venter 

 blackish on the sides, pale in the middle; sternum dark, with a pale 

 median streak. Legs pale, broadly marked with brown, or reddish- 

 brown; femur I mostly brown, others near tip; patellae mostly dark; 

 tibiae brown at each end, broader at tip, and hardly distinct on legs 

 II and III; metatarsi narrowly marked with brown at base and tip; 

 and the tips of the tarsi usually darker. The cephalothorax is broad 

 and rounded, the head distinctly elevated, the eyes as usual, but the 

 hind row is scarcely recurved; the abdomen is flat, truncate at base, 

 widened to the humps at the posterior third, and then tapers to tip. 



Length 3 mm. 



From north fork Swannanoa River, Black Mountain, N. Car., 

 May; obtained by beating Rhododendron bushes. 

 Spintharas flavidaa Htz. 



Paint Rock. 

 Argyrodes trigonum Htz. 



Linville, Swannanoa Valley. 

 Argfyrodes oanoellatus Htz. 



Chapel Hill, Durham. 



Ariamnes fiotilium Htz. 

 Durham, one specimen. 



Ceratinella fissioeps Cambr. 

 Roan Mt. Summit. 



Ceratinella minuta Emer. 

 ' Swannanoa Valley, among dead leaves. 



Ceratinella brnnnea Emer. 



Black Mts., Sept. (Beutenmiiller). 



Ceratinella Isetabilis Cambr. 

 Black Mt. (Beutenmiiller). 



Hotionella interpres -Cambr. 



Morganton, Chapel Hill, Linville, Pineola, Swannanoa Valley, 

 Black Mts. (Beutenmiiller), very common. 

 Ceratinopit nigripalpis Emer. 



Swannanoa Valley, among dead leaves. 



Ceratinopis altematns Emer. 

 From Balsam. 




1911.] NATUIL^.L SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 447 



Maso frontata Banks. PI. XXXV, fig. 17. 



Swannanoa Valley, under fallen leaves. 



Lophocarenum moestnin Banks. PI. XXXV, fig. 10. 



Swannanoa Valley, sifting fallen leaves. 



Diplocephalus rostratas Emer. 



Black Mts., Sept. (Beiitenmiiller), one male. 

 Diplocephalus carolinas n. sp. PI. XXXIV, fig. 2. 



Cephalothorax chestnut-brown; legs yellow-brown; abdomen 

 black, sternum yellowish-brown, black on margins. Head elevated, 

 into a median lobe, which is truncate in front and bears the P. M. E., 

 which are over two diameters apart; A. M. E. small, scarcely diameter 

 apart, farther from the larger A. S. E., the P. S. E. close to A. S. E. 

 Inner edge of front of the mandibles with two small teeth; sternum 

 fully as broad in front as long, rather rounded between hind, coxae, 

 which are separated by more than their width. 



Length 1.5 mm. 



From Black Mt., N. Car., Swannanoa Valley, sifting fallen leaves. 

 Gonglydium atramontensis n. sp. PI. XXXIV, figs. 5, 8. 



Cephalothorax pale yellowish, legs still paler; abdomen blackish 

 above and below; sternum blackish. Cephalothorax broad, mandi- 

 bles with three teeth on outer side and a large median one on the 

 inner edge; palpi long and slender, the basal hook large, a sharp, 

 straight, simple stylet at tip ; the sternum as broad at base as long, 

 triangular, sharp-pointed behind ; legs long and slender. 



Length 1.1 mm. 



From north fork of the Swannanoa River, Black Mountain, N. Car., 

 May, under fallen leaves. 

 Hypselistes florens Cambr. 



Black Mts. (Beutenmiiller). 

 Grammonata ornata Cambr. 



Black Mts. (Beutenmiiller). 

 Cornicularia indirecta Cambr. 



Black Mts., Sept. (Beutenmiiller). 

 Erigone antumnalis Emer. 



Swannanoa Valley, among leaves. 



LINYPHIID^. 

 Linyphia phrygiana Koch. 



Roan Mt. Summit, in balsam trees, Swannanoa Valley, Black Mts. 

 (Beutenmiiller), common. 




448 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



Linypliia maculata Emer. 



One from Swannanoa Valley. 

 Linyphia grandseva Keys. 



Roan Mt. Summit, one female. 

 Linyphia communis Htz. 



Linville, Chapel Hill, Road to Roan Mt., Balsam, Durham, Swan- 

 nanoa Valley, very common. 

 Linyphia marginata Eoch. 



Paint Rock, linville, Murphy, Chapel Hill, Balsam, Pineola, Swan- 

 nanoa Valley, common. 



Neriene clathrata Sundv. 

 Swannanoa Valley, on ground in the cherry orchard. 



Linyphiella cocoinea Htz. 



Morganton, Chapel Hill, Durham. 

 Tapinopa bilineata Banks. 



Black Mts., Sept. (Beutenmiiller). 



Lepthyphantes minuta Blackw. 

 Black Mt. 



Bathyphantes zebra Emer. 



Mt. Graybeard, Swannanoa Valley, among dead leaves. 



Bathyphantes micaria Emer. 



Swannanoa \^alley, in grass. 

 Bathyphantes galbea Keys. 



Swannanoa Valley, one specimen. 



Bathyphantes unimaonlata Banks. 



Swannanoa Valley, in old meadow. 

 Bathyphantes nigrina Westr. 



Roan Mt. Summit. 



Kicroneta cornupalpis Emer. 



Black Mts., Sept. (Beutenmiiller), one male. 



MIMETID^. 

 Mimetus interfeotor Htz. 



Chapel Hill, Swannanoa Valley, on low branches of trees. 



TBTRAGNATHID^. 

 Fachygnatha tristriata Koch. 

 Blowing Rock. 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 449 



Tetragnatha laboriosa Htz. 



Morganton, Pineola, Black Mt., Linville, Durham, Murphy, Blowing 

 Rock, Swannanoa Valley, common. 

 Tetragnatha grallator Htz. 



Durham, Murphy, Linville, Paint Rock, Swannanoa Valley, common. 

 Eugnatha straminea Emer. 



Linville, Swannanoa Valley. 



BPBIRIDiE. 

 Epeira displicata Htz. 



Swannanoa Valley, common. 

 Epeira globosa Keys. 



Linville. 

 Epeira foliata Koch istrix Htz.). 



Road to Roan Mt., Blowing Rock, Linville, Swannanoa Valley, 

 on porch. 



Epeira vulgaris Htz. 



Salisbury, in stables. 

 Epeira infamata Htz. 



Swannanoa Valley, young. 



Epeira domiciliorum Htz. 



Asheville. 

 Epeira ocellata Clerck. 



Roan Mt. Summit, on balsam trees. 

 Epeira sanguinaiis Htz. 



Durham, one female. 

 Epeira juniperi Emer. 



Black Mt., Paint Rock. 

 Epeira sericata Clerck. 



Black Mt., also (Beutenmiiller). 



Epeira gigas Leach. 



Black Mts. (Beutenmiiller). 

 Epeira nordmanni Thor. 



Linville, Swannanoa Valley, young. 



Epeira trifolium Htz. 

 Linville. 



.Epeira trivittata Keys. 



Morganton, Linville, Black Mt., Blowing Rock, Durham. 




450 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



Epeira prompta Htz. 



Paint Rock, Linville, Murphy, Black Mt., Durham, Swannanoa 

 Valley, sweeping meadow. 

 £p«ira eatawba n. sp. Pi. XXXIV, fig. 4. 



Cephalothorax dark brown, paler in eye-region, two pale median 

 spots behind eyes, two more elongate near middle, and the posterior 

 part under the abdomen is pale. Abdomen whitish-gray above, 

 mottled and streaked behind and on the sides by greenish- white ; 

 underside pale, mottled with brownish, and with dark streaks radiating 

 from the spinnerets; sternum pale, with faint dark spots on the sides; 

 legs pale, marked with dark brown, two or three spots on femora, 

 the patella mostly dai"k, and two spots on tibias, less distinctly on the 

 metatarsi. Abdomen short, and broad, and high, about as broad 

 behind as long, the base at middle with a pair of small approximate 

 humps, at each outer corner a double hump, not elevated; the tip, 

 seen from below, shows two other humps not far from the spinnerets ; 

 sternum with four humps each side and one behind; finger of epigy- 

 num quite long, transversely wrinkled on basal part. 



Length 3 mm. 



From Asheville (July). 

 Pleotana stellata Htz. 



Morganton, Durham. 

 Metepeira labyrintliea Htz. 



Morganton, Durham, Pineola, Linville. 

 Aeaoesia foliata Htz. 



Morganton, Paint Rock, Black Mt., Durham, Chapel Hill. 



Zilla montana Koch. 



Roan Mt. Summit, on houses and dead trees^ 

 Singa truneata Banks. 



Swannanoa Valley, in web neai" ground. 

 Mangora gibberosa Htz. 



Black Mt., Blowing Rock, Durham, Chapel Hill. 

 Mangora maoulata Keys. 



Black Mt., Chapel Hill. 

 Mangora plaoida Htz. 



Paint Rock, Linville, Durham, Chapel Hill, Mt. Graybeard, Swan- 

 nanoa Valley, very common. 

 CyolOBa oonica Pallas. 



Linville, Durham, Black Mt., Blowing Rock, Balsam, Chapel Hill, 

 Pineola, Black Mts. (Beutenmiiller). 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 451 



Theridiosoma radiosa McCook. 



Swarmanoa Valley, not uncommon sweeping low plants; Pineola. 

 6ea heptagon Htz. 



Chapel Hill, one male. 

 Argiope trifasoiata Forsk. 



Durham, Road to Roan Mt., Linville. 

 Argiope anrantia Lucas. 



Raleigh. 

 Leaoaage hortoram Htz. 



Linville, Black Mt., Road to Roan Mt., Durham, Chapel Hill, 

 Swannanoa Valley, Black Mts. (Beutenmiiller). 



Aorosoma gracilis Walck. 



Asheville, Swannanoa Valley, Black Mts. (Beutenmiiller). 

 Aorosoma spinea Htz. 



Chapel Hill. 



ULOBORIDiE. 

 TJloborus plamipes Lucas. 



Morganton, Swannanoa Valley, Black Mts. (Beutenmiiller), web 

 on dead branches. 

 Hyptiotes cavatus Htz. 



Paint Rock, Durham. 



THOMISIDiB. 

 Misumena vatia Clerck. 



Black Mts. (Beutenmiiller). 



Misumena oblonga Keys. ^ 



Morganton, Balsam, Pineola, Durham, Roan Mt. Summit, Blowing 

 Rock, Black Mts. (Beutenmiiller). 

 Misnmessus asperatus Htz. 



Morganton, Durham, Swannanoa Valley, mostly young. 

 Bnnoinia aleatoria Htz. 



Morganton, Pineola, Durham, Chapel Hill. 

 Xysticus feroz Htz. 



Pineola. 

 Xysticns triguttatns Keys. 



Pineola, Blowing Rock. 

 Xystioas formosns Banks. 



Black Mts. (Beutenmiiller). 




452 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



Xystions gulosus Keys. 



Morganton, Chapel Hill, Swaimanoa Valley. 

 Coriarachne versicolor Keys. 



Black Mts. (Beutenmiiller). 

 Tmarus caudatus Htz. 



Durham, Chapel Hill, Swaimanoa Valley, on dead branches. 

 Fhilodromus rufus Walck. 



Swannanoa Valley, Black Mts, (Beutenmiiller), common. 



Fhilodromus ornatus Banks. 



Black Mts. (Beutenmiiller). 



Fhilodromus carolinus n. sp. PI. XXXV, figs. 14, 16. 



Cephalothorax whitish, with several short brown streaks in eye- 

 region, one each side on clypeus, and three brown spots on each side 

 of the cephalothorax. Legs yellowish or browriish-j^ellow, the femora 

 whitish, femora I and II with a broad brown stripe on anterior side 

 beneath, behind mostly brown ; femora III and IV with a dark brown 

 stripe on the anterior side beneath, one behind and a less distinct one 

 above, rest of legs not plainly striped, although tibiae III and IV are 

 darker in front below than elsewhere. Abdomen white, with a pattern 

 of rich brown marks as in the figure; venter and sternum whitish. 

 Cephalothorax moderately broad; eyes all small and wide apart; 

 legs II a little longer than I, femora II longer than the cephalothorax, 

 tibise and metatarsi I and II each with two pairs of long spines beneath, 

 the second pair at the middle of joint; femur I with three bristles on 

 front, and two above, 



Lengtji 3.5 mm. 



From Durham, N, Car., 8 July (Emerton). 



PISAURIDiE. 

 Fisaurina undata Htz. 



Morganton, Murphy, Chapel Hill, Swannanoa Valley, Black Mts, 

 (Beutenmiiller). 

 Dolomedes urinator Htz. 



Swannanoa Valley, near stream. 

 Dolomedes fontanus Emer. 



Lower part of Roan Mt., Black Mts. (Beutenmiiller), 

 Dolomedes vernalis Emer. 



Swannanoa Valley, in a bush. 

 Dolomedes sexpunotatus Htz. 



Swannanoa Valley, by side of stream. 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 453 



LYOOSIDiE. 



Pardosa retrorsa n. sp. PI. XXXIV, figs. 3, 6. 



Cephalothorax nearly black on the sides, black on eye-region, and 

 there traversed by a narrow median line of white hair, extending down 

 to the front eye-row; behind with a broad median reddish stripe, 

 much constricted before the dorsal groove; some pale spots on the 

 sides; and some white on the sides of clypeus. Mandibles reddish- 

 brown, maxillae pale, lip black, sternum blackish; abdomen pale 

 above, blackish on anterior sides, and with some scattered black 

 marks above, most noticeable behind; venter pale. Legs pale, the 

 front femora black, and other femora and hind tibiae more or less 

 distinctly banded with dark; basal joint of palpus black, rest pale. 

 Of general shape of P. lapidicina, but legs perhaps a little longer, all 

 with long stout spines. 



Length 6 mm.; hind legs 15 mm. 



From Linville, N. Car., July (Emerton). Related to P. lapidicina, 

 but the palpus quite different, and the white line on eye-region is 

 peculiar. A female, apparently of this species, sent by Prof. Emerton, 

 was taken at Coles Creek Notch, 20 miles north of Bloomsburg, Pa., 

 19 Sept., by Mr. Lutz. 

 Pardosa minima Keys. 



Swannanoa Valley, in meadow. 

 Pardosa canadensis Blackw. 



Morganton, Balsam, Roan Mt., Murphy, Linville, Pineola, Asheville, 

 Durham. 



Pardosa moesta Bks. 



I-iinville, one female. 

 Pardosa lapidicina Emer. 



Roan Mt., Swannanoa Valley, in field. 

 Lycosa carolinensis Walck. 



Asheville. 

 Lycosa helluo Waick. 



Asheville, Swannanoa Valley. 

 Lycosa frondicola Emer. 



Swannanoa Valley, among dead leaves. 

 Lycosa aspersa Htz. 



Linville, Durham, Black Mts., Sept. (Beutenmiiller), 

 Lycosa lenta Htz. 



Morganton. 




454 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



Lyoosa pulolira Keys. 



Swannanoa Valley, one female. 



Lyoosa avida Walck. 



Roan Mt., Blowing Rock, Linville, Pineola, Swannanoa Valley, 

 under stones. 

 Lyoosa ooreata Htz. 



Pineola, Balsam, I.inville, Swannanoa Valley, very common, Black 

 Mts. (Beutenmiiller). 

 Lyoosa gracilis Bks. 



Paint Rock, Swannanoa Valley, common. 



Lyoosa punotnlata Htz. 



Chapel Hill. 

 Lyoosa rabida Walck. 



Morganton, Asheville, Swannanoa Valey, young. 

 Firata minata Emer. 



Blowing Rock, Pineola. 

 Firata montana Emer. 



Linville, Balsam, Asheville, Swannanoa Valley, very common in a 

 woods near stream. 

 Geolyoosa missouriensis Bks. 



Chapel Hill. 



Troohesa oinerea Fabr. 



Morganton. 

 AUooosa fanerea Htz. 



Swannanoa Valley, common. ^ 



Allooosa sublata Montg. 



Swannanoa Valley, a few specimens. 



OXYOPIDiB. 



Oxyopes saltious Htz. 



Morganton, Paint Rock, Linville, Blowing Rock, Pineola, Durham, 



Roan Mt., Chapel Hill, Swannanoa Valley. 



Feaoetia viridans Htz. 



Durham. 



ATTID.ai. 

 Fhidippus andaz Htz. 



Swannanoa Valley, young. Black Mts. (Beutenmiiller). 

 Fhidippus podagrosus Htz. 



Asheville, Mt. Graybeard. 

 Fhidippus insigniarius Koch. 



Swannanoa Valley, one specimen sweeping. 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 456 



Phidippas rufus Htz. " 



Durham. 

 Dendryphantes octayus Htz. 



Durham, Swannanoa Valley, very common. 

 Dendryphantes oastanens Htz. 



Balsam, Swannanoa Valley, among dead leaves. 

 Fhilsens militaris Htz. 



Swannanoa Valley, not common, on trees. 

 Fellenes borealis Bks. 



Mt. Graybeard, one male, in grass. 

 Pellenes peregrinus Peckh. 



Swannanoa Valley, one female, under leaves. 

 Habrooestnm pulex Htz. 



Durham, Swannanoa Valley, common on fallen trees, stones, etc. 

 Habrooestnm parvulns Banks. 



Black Mts. (Beutenmiiller). 

 Thiodina sylvanus Htz. 



Durham, 

 Fhlegnra leopardns Htz. 



Swannanoa Valley, one specimen, among dead leaves. 

 Msevia niger Htz. 



IBlowing Rock, Durham, Mt. Graybeard, Swannanoa Valley, very 

 common on bushes and herbage. 

 Wala palmarum Htz. 



Blowing Rock, Swannanoa Valley, on trees. 

 Wala mitrata Htz. 



Swannanoa Valley, also on trees. 

 Hafpissa nndata DeGeer. 



Black Mts. (Beutenmiiller). 

 Hyotia pikei Peckh. 



Durham. 

 loins oanadensis Blackw. 



Blowing Rock. 

 Fnentes, lineata Hentz. 



Paint Rock. 

 Tutelina elegans Htz. 



Asheville, Durham, Swannanoa Valley, Black Mts. (Beutenmuller). 

 Zygoballns sezpunotatns Htz. 



Swannanoa Valley, in old field. 




456 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Juiie^ 



Zygoballus parvus Htz. 

 Swannanoa Valley, Durham, Black Mts. (Beiitenmuller). 



"Neon nelli Peckh. 



Swannanoa Valley, among fallen leaves. 



Sassacns papenhoei Peckh. 



Blowing Rock. 

 Synemosyna formica Htz. 



Swannanoa Valley, on plants. 



PHALANGID^. 

 Liobunum grande Say. 



Swanr\anoa Valley. 



Liobunum ventrioosum Wood. 



Swannanoa Valley, common. 



Liobunum flavum Banks. 



Black Mts. (Beutenmiiller). [."i 



Liobunum crassipalpis Bks. 



Roan Mt. 



Oligolopbus pictus Wood. 



Roan Mt. 



Scotolemon brunnea Banks. 



Collected by Mr. Beutenmiiller at Black Mt. 



Caddo agilis Banks. 



Swannanoa Valley, under leaves. 

 Nemastoma dasycnemum Crosby. 



Swannanoa Valley, under leaves. 



Explanation of Plates XXXIV, XXXV. 



Fig. 1. — Zelotes depressa. 



" 2. — Diplocephalus carolinus. 



" 3. — Pardosa retrorsa. 



" 4. — Epeira catawba. 



" 5. — Gonglydium atramontensis. 



" 6. — Pardosa retrorsa. 



" 7. — Scotinella pallida. 



" 8. — Gonglydium atramontensis. 



" 9. — Dictyna armata. 



" 10. — Lophocarenum moestum. 



" 11. — Callilepis femoralis. 



" 12. — Theridium atramontanum. 



" 13. — Epesinus amoenus. 



" 14. — Philodromus carolinus. 



" 15. — Epesinus amoenus. 



" 16. — Philodromus carolinus. 



" 17. — Maso frontata. 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 457 



OBSERVATIONS ON SAECOCYSTIS RILEYI (STILES). 

 BY HOWARD CRAWLEY. 



On March 22, 1911, there was received at the laboratory of the 

 Zoological Division of the Bureau of Animal Industry, Washington, 

 D. C, a piece of the breast of a Mallard duck, in which were Sar- 

 cosporidian cysts. A preparation of the spores of this parasite, made 

 for purposes of identification, showed it to be Sarcocystis rileyi (Stiles). 

 This form is by no means rare in Mallards, Shoveller ducks and domestic 

 ducks. The preparation, however, showed certain morphological 

 details in the so-called spores which do not appear to have been 

 described. In consequence, a number of preparations were made, 

 the study of which brought to light the facts set forth below, which 

 are believed to be of considerable interest and of some theoretical 

 importance. 



The duck from which the material was obtained had been shot 

 near the mouth of the Illinois River, probably very shortly before 

 March 20. The specimen was handed to one of the veterinary inspec- 

 tors of the Bureau of Animal Industry, at Chicago, and by him for- 

 warded to Washington. The meat had merely been sprinkled with 

 borax, and reached Washington in good condition. It was quite 

 liberally parasitized. The cysts were confined mainly to the more 

 superficial portions of the breast of the duck, a good many lying 

 immediately beneath the connective tissue covering the muscle. 



It is believed that the parasites were still alive, or, if not, had been 

 dead for so short a time that they had not suffered any degeneration. 

 Examined fresh, they presented a picture characteristic of living 

 organisms. They fixed well, and gave good stained preparations. 

 On the other hand, attempts to stimulate them to display movement 

 failed. Mounts were kept for several hours in the incubator, and 

 brought at once under the microscope. Others were kept for a con- 

 siderable period over the dark field illumination, since this procedure 

 heats the preparation. But in no case were any of the spores* seen 

 to move. 



' The propagative bodies found in the cysts of Sarcosporidia are conven- 

 tionally designated spores, and hence that term is used here. It is much more 

 likely, however, that they are the homologues of the sporozoites of Gregarines, 

 Coccidia and Haemosporidia. 

 30 




458 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [July, 



This does not prove that the spores were no longer living, as it is 

 by no means easy to get Sarcosporidia spores to display movements. 

 Some years ago, at the Pathological Laboratory of the Medical School 

 of the University of Pennsylvania, some experiments were made 

 with the spores of Sarcocystis muris. It was found that if these were 

 kept in the incubator, in some appropriate medium, and then examined 

 at a temperature of 32° C, very lively movements were displayed. 

 These movements, however, were not maintained for any length of 

 time, even at this temperature, and at ordinary room temperature 

 quickly ceased. It is evident that the organisms are sensitive to any 

 fall of temperature below the so-called blood heat. 



Methods. 



Both fresh and prepared material were studied. The latter was 

 either smears or paraffin sections. The smears were prepared as 

 follows: A cyst was removed from the muscle, placed on a slide 

 with a small drop of salt solution, and broken into several pieces 

 with needles. These pieces were then smeared over the slide, thus 

 scattering the spores, and the preparation fixed before it had dried. 

 Three methods were used, the best results being obtained with fixa- 

 tion in vapor of osmic acid. For this a wide-mouthed, glass-stoppered 

 bottle was used, in which was placed a small quantity of a 4 per cent, 

 solution of osmic acid. The wet smear was left in this bottle ten to 

 thirty seconds, sometimes more, and then transferred at once to 

 absolute alcohol. The air in such a bottle is saturated not only with 

 osmic acid vapor, but with water vapor as well and the smears do not 

 dry. It may be noted that any osmic acid solution which adheres 

 to the slide after removal from the fixing bottle must be wiped off 

 before immersion in alcohol. 



Other smears were fixed by dropping on them, while still wet, a 

 quantity of fixative. Two of these were used: Hermarm's fluid and 

 an alcoholic corrosive acetic mixture made up as follows: 



95% alcohol 50 parts. 



Sat. sol. of HgClp in water 50 parts. 



Glacial acetic acid 5 parts. 



Both of these fluids caused the parasite to swell and to become 

 relatively very much broader than it was in the fresh state. Nor 

 were the structural details preserved anything like so well as with 

 fixation in osmic acid vapor. 



Three stains were used : 



1. Iron hsBmatoxylin and acid fuchsin. 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 459> 



2, Thionin and acid fuchsin. 



3. Wright's stain. 



The two former were used in the usual way. With Wright's stain,, 

 the conventional procedure was slightly varied. The smear, kept 

 in absolute ethyl alcohol, was first washed in absolute methyl alcohol.. 

 It was then stained in the usual way, but after being washed in water,, 

 it was dehydrated with alcohol and transferred to oil. It couldi 

 therefore be brought into balsam without ever becoming dry. 



The material for paraffin sections was fixed in Hermann's fluid. 



Observations. 

 Fresh Material. 



The Cysts. — As already stated, the cysts were mostly aggregated 

 in that portion of the muscle lying beneath the skin. As is usual with 

 Sarcosporidia, their long axes lay in the same direction as the long 

 axes of the muscle fibres. Stretching of the muscle caused the cysts 

 to lengthen and become narrower, they being in all cases very soft 

 and flexible. They were very easily teased out from the surrounding 

 host tissue, and could be obtained free of all such tissue and wholly 

 intact without the least difficulty. 



Both in situ and when free on the slide, the form was that of a 

 cylinder with rounded ends. That is, the diameter was sensibly 

 uniform throughout, although, when the muscle surrounding a cyst 

 was stretched, the cyst became somewhat narrower at the ends. 



The length varied from 2.75-6.5 mm.; the diameter from .6-1.0 

 mm. There was, however, no constant relation between length and 

 thickness, and indeed the shorter cysts were frequently the thicker. 

 Four, selected at random, and measured while in position, gave the 

 following : 



6.0 by .60 mm. 



5.5 by .75 mm. 



4.0 by 1.00 mm. 



6.5 by .60 mm. 



It is probable that the ratio of length and breadth depends a good 

 deal on the pressure exerted on the cyst by the surrounding tissue. 

 Obviously, also, in the living bird, the parasites are subjected to very 

 violent stresses and strains. 



The Spores. — Preparations made by teasing the cysts in salt solution 

 were examined under the microscope. The spores varied a good deal 

 in size and shape. Some were short, broad ovals, others had somewhat 




460 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [July, 



the outline of a fish. The long, narrow spores (Plate XXXVI, figs. 

 1-3, 10-12), which were in the great majority, sometimes tapered 

 regularly from the broad to the narrow end. In others, how- 

 ever, the contours were not smooth, there being little irregularities 

 and swellings along the periphery of the body. The short, broad 

 individuals, as will be shown later, were probably degenerate. 



A vacuole near the centre could generally be seen. At times, also, 

 a second vacuole could be made out very close to the broad end. 



In a number there could be seen a dark, refractive body, rounded 

 or rod shaped. It was sometimes near the centre; in other cases 

 nearer the broad end. 



A few of the long forms were slightly curved, but as a rule the 

 longitudinal axis was sensibly a straight line. In a few the cytoplasm 

 contained granules. 



Measurements of several individuals, taken at random, gave: 



Long. Short. 



13.8 X 2.6 microns. 8.3 x 4.1 microns. 



13.8x3.1 8.3x4.1 



14.5 X 2.1 8.3 x 3.1 



14.5 X 2.6 9.4 X 2.6 



15.0 X 2.6 9.4 X 2.6 

 14.5 X 3.1 



Hence the length varies from 8.3-15/x; the breadth from 2.6-4.1, 

 Excluding, however, the short forms, believed to be degenerate, it is 

 found that the spores are about 14-15/j'. long by 2-3 broad. 



Fixed Material. 



Cysts. — In cross section the cysts show a dififerentiation into what 

 Stiles has termed central core and peripheral layer or zone. This 

 differentiation, while quite evident when the cross section is viewed 

 with low powers, has no morphological significance. The peripheral 

 zone is that portion of the cyst in which the spores are still alive; the 

 central core that portion wherein they have died and degenerated. 

 This was pointed out by Stiles. 



In the case of one of the mounted specimens, the cross section was 

 oval, measuring 1.05 by .84 millimeters. The central core was roughly 

 .71 X .57, while the peripheral shell varied in thickness from ,105 to 

 .194 mm. Presumably, in the living cyst, the central core will occupy 

 the geometrical centre of the cyst. 



Hence, in this particular case, there had been distortion, which 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 461 



was also indicated by the fact that where the shell was thin, it was 

 quite dense, and where thick, very loose and open. The distortion 

 was probably due to exigencies of fixation, but, as already indicated, 

 the cysts must be subjected to great distortion during the flight of 

 the bird. 



There was the mesh-work characteristic of sarcosporidian cysts, 

 the meshes being coarser at the periphery and finer in the centre. 



In the former position they measured from 10-20^ across; in the 

 latter they were as small as l-2^t. 



In the material on which this study is based the cysts, being mature, 

 lie between the muscle fibres and not within them. 



Stiles, studying the parasites of five ducks, foiind intermuscular 

 cysts alone in four, but in the fifth specimen both intermuscular and 

 intramuscular stages were seen. He states that in the latter, the 

 cysts were thinner and showed no non-staining central core. Although 

 Stiles suggested that they were only developmental phases of the same 

 form, he followed Blanchard's classification, calling one Balhiania rileyi 

 and placing the other in the genus Sarcocystis. It is now known that 

 the distinction between inter- and intramuscular positions is only a 

 question of development. The young stages lie within the muscle 

 fibre, but as they grow they become too large to be contained within it. 

 According to Minchin, the originally parasitized fibre is ruptured and 

 the cyst escapes. It seems more probable, however, that the fibre is 

 merely almost wholly destroyed, its remnants remaining around the 

 parasite as an adventitious cyst. However this may be, in the present 

 case, the parasites were inclosed within a tightly stretched membrane, 

 showing a considerable number of long, narrow nuclei. This was 

 derived from the host. The actual cyst membrane is very thin, 

 homogeneous, and part and parcel of the net work. 



The compartments, as we have seen, grow progressively smaller 

 from without inwards. Within them are the spores. 



These, in the peripheral compartments, are seen to be elongated 

 elements radially arranged. That is, as seen in the cross section of 

 the cyst, the spores are in more or less definite files directed along the 

 radii of this cross section. 



In the central portion of the central core, the meshes of the net are 

 filled with debris, which stains only with the plasma stain. Further 

 out, however, it is frequently possible to see that this debris is more 

 or less well divided up into little aggregates, doubtless each such 

 aggregate standing for a spore which has died and disintegrated. 

 In such situations chromatin masses are also frequent, following the 




462 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [July, 



well-known rule that chromatin does not break down so quickly as 

 cytoplasm. 



In general, the line of demarcation between the normal and degen- 

 erate spores was abrupt. The same compartment might be filled 

 partly with normal spores and partly with debris. 



The degenerating spores differ from the normal spores in being 

 shorter and broader, even at times round. As the spore changes in 

 shape, the cytoplasm becomes very loose and to a large extent loses 

 its ability to stain, the spores frequently taking on the form of a 

 chromatin mass lying in an empty shell. It is on account of these 

 observations on the sectioned cyst that the short, broad spores found 

 in the fresh preparations are believed to be degenerate. 



The relative extent of central core and peripheral layer in the make 

 up of the cyst is merely a question of its age. Thus, Stiles found the 

 small, intramuscular cysts to be without a central core. Further, 

 in his description of the intermuscular form. Stiles gives .48 mm. for 

 the thickness, and in his figures the central core is relatively very 

 much smaller than it is in my material, where the diameter is as much 

 as 1 millimeter. It is merely a matter of evolution. The cysts herein 

 described are older than those studied by Stiles and spore degeneration 

 has proceeded much further. 



Smears. — The description which follows is based wholly on material 

 fixed in osmic acid vapor and absolute alcohol, the other fixations 

 giving obviously bad results. The three different stains mentioned 

 above were all used, and all were good. They gave, however, quite 

 different appearances, which will be noted as the description proceeds. 

 Yet although the appearances were quite different, it was perfectly 

 easy to correlate them. No one of the three stains showed any struc- 

 tural details not shown by the other two. The distinction between 

 them had to do primarily with the chemical composition of the different 

 parts of the spore. 



As was to be expected, the sharpest pictures were obtained with 

 iron haematoxylin and acid fuchsin. This method was best for the 

 detection of the presence and form of the figured elements. But 

 iron haematoxylin does not distinguish between different grades of 

 chromatin, staining that containing much nucleic acid the same as 

 that which contains little. Differences of this sort were, however, 

 brought out by thionin and Wright's stain. 



The observations were made with a 2 mm. apochromatic oil immer- 

 sion lens, with a No. 12 or No. 18 eye-piece. These give, respectively, 

 1,500 and 2,250 diameters. The light was obtained from an incan- 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 463 



descent gas lamp, and no trouble was experienced in getting excellent 

 definition. 



The spore, in the fixed smears, shows distinctly a differentiation into 

 a broad and a narrow end. As in the fresh material, the broad end 

 is rounded ; the narrow end tapering and sometimes almost pointed. 



The cytoplasm is either homogeneous, staining solidly, or there 

 can be made out a poorly defined spongioplasm. This latter is mostly 

 confined to the broad end of the spore, where there can often be seen 

 minute vacuoles. In this part, also, rather coarse granules are fre- 

 quent, which take the chromatin stain. It was not possible, however, 

 to say whether these belong to the cytoplasm or to the nuclear appara- 

 tus of the spore. They were usually in association with the nucleus- 

 like body in the centre of the parasite, and may belong to the class of 

 the so-called metachromatic granules which have been described as 

 present in sarcosporidian spores. 



In the narrow end of the spore, the cytoplasm nearly always stained 

 homogeneously, and in many cases was so solid near the extremity 

 as to suggest a differentiation such as occurs in the anterior end of 

 Telosporidian sporozoites. In these, the cytoplasm is greatly stiffened 

 and forms a sort of beak, which enables the parasites to bore into the 

 cells of the host. This is the only indication obtainable as to which 

 is the anterior end of these spores of Sarcocystis rileyi. 



The cytoplasm takes the usual stain, being red in acid fuchsin and 

 blue in Wright's stain. 



A distinct periplast is present, which stains the same as the rest 

 of the cytoplasm. It could easily be seen in all of the smears, and 

 was well demonstrated with those fixed in Hermann's fluid, where, 

 as a consequence of the violent invasion of the cell by the fluid, it was 

 frequently torn loose from the entoplasm. 



Measurements show that there is quite a little shrinkage during 

 fixation. The fresh spores measured 14-15 microns long by 2-3 broad. 

 Those free in the smears range from 9-13.4 long by 1.7-2.3 broad. 

 In a number of cases, however, there were present in the smears 

 portions of the cysts, showing the spores still lying within the com- 

 partments. Measurements of such spores showed them to be 11.4- 

 13.0 long by 1.6-2.3 microns wide, and gave a mean of 12.2 by 2 

 microns. In these fixation is probably a trifle slower, and hence 

 there is not so much shrinkage. 



Internally, counting from the broad to the narrow end, the spores 

 show : 



(1) A vacuole. 




464 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [July, 



(2) A chromatin body. 



(3) A vacuole. 



(4) A chromatin body. 



These four elements are normal constituents of all of the spores, 

 although it is often difficult to see them all in any given spore. 



The chromatin bodies are probably nuclei, but this point will be 

 considered later. The vacuoles are not to be confounded with the 

 small vacuoles frequently present here, as in all other protozoa, but 

 are clearly morphological entities. 



For convenience, the vacuoles will be referred to as vacuole No. 1 

 and vacuole No. 2; the chromatin bodies as chromatin body No. 1 

 and chromatin body No. 2, the count being made from the broad to 

 the narrow end of the spore. 



Vacuole No. 1. — This, when distinct, appeared as a very narrow ring, 

 inclosing a clear space. In other cases it was not nearly so sharply 

 differentiated, appearing only as a vague, poorly defined region, while 

 very often it could not be seen at all. The space within the ring was 

 sometimes colorless, but more often faintly stained, and at times took 

 much the same stain as the surrounding cytoplasm. Occasionally, 

 it contained a faintly staining granule or irregularly shaped mass, 

 staining a trifle more deeply than the ground substance. In spores 

 still in situ within the compartments of the cyst the vacuole was 

 often very conspicuous, presenting the aspect of a hole in the cyto- 

 plasm. 



The vacuole was usually nearly or quite round. It was sometimes 

 at the extreme end of the spore; in other cases some distance from the 

 end. It varied a good deal in size, at times being large enough to fill 

 the entire width of the cell, again quite small. The appearance is 

 shown in figs. 1-3, 10, 12. 



The different stains used made little or no difference in the appear- 

 ance of this element. 



It is possible that this is the so-called striated body said to be 

 present in sarcosporidian spores, and interpreted as the homologue 

 of the polar capsule of the spores of Myxosporidia. 



Chromatin Body No. 1. — The appearance of this element is shown 

 in figs. 1-3, 5, 6, 8 and 10-12. 



Viewed under a magnification of some 700-800, it appeared as a 

 solid, deeply stained, spherical, oval or roughly demi-lunar body, 

 frequently broken into two equal or unequal parts. (Plate XXXVI, 

 figs. 1-3, 5c, 8c?, e, 10, 11). Under higher powers, however, and with 

 an intense light, it was frequently possible to make out that it was 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 465 



more or less lobulated, and apparently composed of several masses^ 

 closely compacted together (fig. 5a, b, h). Much more rarely it 

 consisted of an aggregate of large granules rather than lobes (figs. 

 5d, f, 66). 



Sometimes the appearances suggested division into two (figs. 13, 

 M, e). 



Generally speaking, this body took a dense chromatin stain, but 

 frequently it did not stain homogeneously, one part taking the chroma- 

 tin, the other the plasma stain. Thus, the case shown by fig. 13 

 shows two heavily stained demilunes, with between them some plasma- 

 like substance. Figs. 6c and 8a, h, c, show elements which are solid,, 

 but which stain partly like chromatin and partly like plasma. It is 

 by no means unlikely that in cases where the element appears double 

 (fig. 8d, e) the conditions really are as in fig. 86, the plasmic portion 

 having failed to stain. Further, in the case of such a body as is shown 

 in figs. 6c, 8a, h, c, an alteration in the chemical composition of the 

 central portion, or overstaining, would give elements such as are shown 

 in figs. 1 and 2. 



The data just given suggest that this element is a nucleus of the- 

 massive or compact type, such as the macronuclei of the ciliate Infu- 

 soria. It has ordinarily the aspect of a solid mass, but is composed 

 rather of several closely compacted masses. Under certain conditions 

 a larger or smaller portion of it changes in chemical composition and 

 stains like albumin. 



In smears fixed with Hermann's fluid this body frequently lay in a 

 vacuole, but it is believed that such an appearance is the result of a 

 too violent fixation. 



In smears stained with iron-haematoxylin the color is sensibly 

 black. In thionin it is deep blue, while in Wright's stain it is a 

 nearly black garnet, precisely like the kinetonuclei of trypanosomes. 



Vacuole No. 2. — In general this is more distinct than vacuole No. 1 . 

 Usually, it showed as a distinct ring, which was frequently irregularly 

 thickened. At times, this vacuole has the appearance of a hole in 

 the cytoplasm, and this was always the case when the spores were- 

 in situ; either in sections or in cyst compartments in the smears. 



But in many cases, it is inconspicuous (see figs. 1, 3). Here it is 

 seen to be irregularly shaped and quite small. More probably, this 

 is an accident of fixation. This vacuole, in the spore, lies between 

 two chromatin bodies, and hence can easily be pressed upon during- 

 fixation. In the spores in the cysts it is always very conspicuous^ 

 and it was also quite evident in the fresh spores. 




466 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [July, 



Chromatin Body No. 2. — This apparently consists of a nuclear mem- 

 brane, nuclear sap and chromatin which is typically in the form of 

 a rounded karyosome. The appearances, however, vary to a very 

 ^reat extent. The chromatin is very often in the form of a rod (figs. 

 46, d, le, /, g). It may also consist of two or more separate bodies 

 (figs. 4c, 76, c, g, h). At times the chromatin mass is irregular in 

 shape, and appears to send out strands which unite with the mem- 

 brane (fig. 4e). In a large number of cases the membrane cannot be 

 demonstrated at all, the chromatic mass apparently lying free in the 

 cytoplasm (figs. 4c, 76, d, e, /, g). 



In iron haematoxylin the karyosome or karyosomes take a deep 

 chromatin stain and, as a rule, stand out sharply. With thionin or 

 Wright's stain the chromatin reaction is given, but the stain is pale. 

 This element obviously comes within the category of vesicular nuclei. 



Summarizing the above observations, it is seen that the spores of 

 Sarcocystis rileyi show two chromatic elements and two vacuoles. 

 The latter, although rather curious possessions, offer no difficulties 

 of interpretation. The j'^oung stages of certain haemogregarines (for 

 examples, Lankesterdla and Karyolysus) typically show two vacuoles, 

 although it is not known what their function may be. 



It is not so easy, however, to explain the significance of these two 

 chromatic elements. The one, the chromatin body No. 1, is typically 

 a rounded solid element, belonging to the massive type of nucleus. 

 It takes an intense chromatin stain, and is clearly an element high in 

 nucleic acid. The other, chromatin body No. 2, consists of a nuclear 

 membrane, inclosing a clear space within which is one or more karyo- 

 somes. These stain like chromatin. This vesicular type of nucleus is 

 widespread in protozoa. 



With iron haematoxylin there is no choice between the staining 

 reactions of these two elements. Sometimes the one is more deeply 

 stained, sometimes the .other, but in general both are black, and the 

 spores are seen at a glance to be binucleate. On the other hand, 

 with Wright's stain, chromatin body No. 1 is larger and more con- 

 spicuous than it is with iron haematoxylin, while chromatin body No. 2 

 may at first glance be overlooked. The appearance here is of a 

 uninucleated element. There is here very nicely illustrated the advan- 

 tage of the use of more than one staining method, and the contention 

 of the English School of protozoologists that iron-hsematoxylin should 

 be used in the study of trypanosomes receives emphatic support. 



It is impossible to establish a correlation between the spores of 

 JSarcocystis rileyi and those of other Sarcosporidia. Concerning the 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA- 467. 



latter, the most noteworthy feature of published figures is a lack of 

 clear-cut details. In one of the most elaborate studies, that of Erd- 

 mann, the figured spores show vague differentiations, but, to the 

 present writer, no exact correlation can be established. The granules 

 figured by Erdmann may be the same as those sometimes seen in 

 Sarcocystis rileyi, or they may stand for the ordinary sarcospo- 

 ridian nucleus. 



There is a general consensus of opinion that sarcosporidian spores 

 show a vesicular nucleus, and this probably corresponds with the 

 vesicular nucleus of S. rileyi. As already suggested, vacuole No. 1 

 may correspond to the supposed homologue of the polar capsule of 

 myxosporidian spores. 



But neither chromatin body No, 1 nor vacuole No. 2 appears to be 

 represented in any sarcosporidian spores other than S. rileyi which 

 have hitherto been described. 



Conclusions, 



(1) The spores of Sarcocystis rileyi are 14-15/^ long and 2-3 /^ wide. 



(2) One end is broad and rounded, the other narrow and tapering. 



(3) The cytoplasm is spongy in the central portion, nearly or quite 

 homogeneous in the narrow end, 



(4) Within, counting from the broad end, the spore shows a vacuole, 

 a chromatin body, a vacuole, a chromatin body. 



(5) Vacuole No. 1 lies in or near the broad end. It is not usually 

 very conspicuous. 



(6) Chromatin body No, 1 is next in order to vacuole No, 1. It is 

 apparently a nucleus of the massive or compact type and stains like 

 the kinetonuclei of trypanosomes, 



(7) Vacuole No. 2 lies roughly in the middle of the spore. It is 

 usually more conspicuous than vacuole No. 1. 



(8) Chromatin body No, 2 is usually nearer the narrow end than 

 the broad end. It is apparently a nucleus of the vesicular type, the 

 ■chromatin of which is typically aggregated into a single large karyo- 

 some. 



(9) The spores of Sarcocystis rileyi, being apparently binucleate, 

 are very different from any other sarcosporidian spores hitherto 

 described. 



Bibliography. 



Erdmann, Rh., 1910: Beitrage zur Morphologie und Entwickelungsgeschichte 

 des Hammelsarkosporids in der Maus. Centralblatt fiir Bakteriologie, etc., 

 1. Abth., Orig. Bd. 53, Heft 5, pp. 510-516, Taf. 1. 




468 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [July^ 



Kern und metachromatische Korper bei Sarkosporidien. Arch, fur Pro- 



tistenkunde, Bd. 20, Heft 3, pp. 239-250, Taf. 15. 

 MiNCHiN, E. A., 1903: Protozoa. The Sporozoa (in a Treatise on Zoology, 



edited by E. Ray Lankester). 

 Stiles, Charles Wardell, 1893: On the Presence of Sarcosporidia in Birds. 



(Hotes on Parasites 18.) Bulletin 3, Bureau of Animal Industry, United 



States Department of Agriculture. 



Explanation of Plate XXXVI. 



Figs. 1-3, 10-12 are made from camera outlines, drawn on the table with a 2 

 mm. objective and No. 18 eye-piece. The balance are free-hand sketches 

 of the two chromatin bodies. The published figures are copies made by Mr. 

 Haines, artist of the Bureau of Animal Industry, from pencil drawings made 

 by the author. 



Figs. 1-3, 6-12 are from smears stained with haematoxylin and acid fuchsin. 



Figs. 4 and 13, from smears stained with Wright's stain. 



Fig. 1. — Spore. All the elements large except vacuole No. 2. All further from 



the broad end of the spore than is usual. 

 Fig. 2. — Spore. Vacuole No. 1 small; other elements large. This spore is 



typical for the positions occupied by the vacuoles and chromatin bodies. 

 Fig. 3. — Spore. Vacuole No. 1 small ; vacuole No. 2 almost obliterated. Kary- 



osome of chromatin body No. 2 sending out strands toward the nuclear mem- 

 brane. 

 Fig. 4. — Chromatin body No. 2. a is taken to be the typical appearance, but 



h and d are very frequent; e is not so often seen. 

 Fig. 5. — Chromatin body No. 2. a, h, c, g and h are frequent appearances; 



d, e and / are not so often seen. 

 Fig. 6. — Chromatin body No. 2. Compare a with h of fig. 5. In c the element 



stains partly like chromatin and partly like plasma. 

 Fig. 7. — Chromatin body No. 2. a, c and h show the entire nucleus; in b, d, e, f 



and g only the karyosomes can be seen. This condition occurs frequently. 

 Fig. 8. — Chromatin body No. 2. In a, b and c the bodies stain partly like 



chromatin and partly like plasma. In d and e it is apparently double. 

 Fig. 9. — Chromatin body No. 2. Appearances frequently presented by the- 



karyosome. 

 Fig. 10. — Spore. Vacuole No. 1 contains a granule. Chromatin body No. 2 



has here the typical appearance of a vesicular nucleus with one karyosome. 

 Fig. 11. — Spore. The vacuoles are obliterated. 

 Fig. 12. — Spore. Chromatin body No. 2 shows three karyosomes. 

 Fig. 13. — Chromatin body No. 1. The element is here cleft into equal parts. 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 469 



NOTES ON THE ANA.TOMY AND CLASSIFICATION OF THE GENERA 

 OMPHALINA AND MESOMPHIX. 



BY HENRY A. PILSBRY. 



In the course of studies on the shells of large Zonitidce of the 

 Southern States Mr. George H. Clapp reached the conclusion that 

 the species referred to Omphalina are divisible into two generic 

 groups, one having the embryonic whorls of the shell smooth, the 

 other having these whorls radially costulate or sharply striate. 

 His results being communicated to me, an anatomical study of all 

 the species was undertaken. I found that two genera are clearly 

 indicated by the soft anatomy and that these coincide with the 

 groups based upon the sculpture of the embryonic shells, except 

 that the species inornata Say and andrewsce Pils. have smooth embryos, 

 yet their soft anatomy is like the group with striate embryos. 



Hoping to find time for a revision of the species with full illustra- 

 tion of the shells, I laid aside the notes made in 1905-6; but as 

 opportunity for the preparation of adequate illustrations of the 

 shells has not appeared, the anatomical and taxonomic data are now 

 published. 



W. G. Binney, in the Terrestrial Mollusks, vol. V, has figured the 

 genitalia of inornata (PI. XI, fig. C), friabilis (fig. D.) and Icevigata 

 (fig. E). In the latter figure the penis is lettered d.s., and its flagelli- 

 form gland and retractor, or both, marked r. Omphalina friabilis 

 is figured with a vaginal gland marked p.p. The fact is that Binney 

 took the distal end of the penis for an appendage or dart-sack, and 

 did not recognize the true nature of the epiphallus. The resulting 

 inaccuracy of the figures and descriptions deprives them of value. 

 He has, however, done much useful work on the dentition, the 

 shell-characters, and in the elucidation of the older species, the 

 synonymy of which had become intricate. 



Genus OMPHALINA Rafinesque. 



It is proposed to restrict this genus to species having the embryonic 

 whorls of the shell smooth, and the penial retractor muscle terminal 

 on the penis, which does not extend beyond it in a flagelliform blind 

 sac. The type is 0. cuprea Rafinesque (fuliginosa " Griffith " Binney) . 




470 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[July, 



The Mexican species lucuhrata Say (PI. XXXVII, fig. 8, genitalia), 

 caduca Fir., zonites Pfr., belong to this genus. Zonyalina (jal- 

 apensis) and Patulopsis (carinata), according to Strebel's figures, 

 are very closely related and might be retained as subgenera of Ompha- 

 lina, as von Martens has done. 



Both Omphalina and Mesomphix have a collar-like gland, usually 

 chocolate-colored, around the base of the vagina. A similar gland 

 has been noticed in Zonites algirus, Zoniioides nitida and excavata, 

 Rhysota hrookei, etc. Its apparent absence in some dissections may 

 be due to imperfect preparation or to imperfect development or 

 pigmentation. The external features of the soft parts are similar 

 in the two genera. In both the orifice of the genitalia is posterior, 

 under the pneumostome, as shown in fig. 2 C. 



The dentition is not greatly varied in the Omphalinas of the 

 United States and probably the radulae of 0. pilsbryi, 0. cuprea and 

 0. friahilis could not always be distinguished. 0. kopnodes has 

 more lateral teeth than the other species. The number of teeth in 

 radulae counted is as follows: 



Central 



O. kopnodes. 



0. pilsbryi.... 

 0. cuprea 



O. c. ozarkensis. 

 0. friahilis 



The position of the epiphallus on the penis is a character of impor- 

 tance in distinguishing species, but it fails with immature indi- 

 viduals, in which the epiphallus is probably always inserted very 

 near the end of the penis. The "swollen" or "slender" shape of 

 penis and epiphallus is variable individually, and probably related 

 to functional activity. The measurements of the organs in speci- 

 mens figured follow: 



Length of 



kopnodes. cuprea. 



Penis 10.5 12 



Epiphallus 21 15.5 



Vagina 7.5 6 



Spermatheca and its 



duct 19 15 



pilsbryi. friabilis. friahilis. 



(Mablevale.) (San Marcos.) 

 9 5 6 



16 5.5 15 



4 8.5 



11 



13.5 



A Miocene species, 0. laminarum, has been described by Professor 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 471 



Cockerell from the Florissant shale, but the fragment obtained 

 leaves the generic reference in doubt. 

 Omphalina cuprea Rafinesque. 



Helix fuliginosa Griffith, of Binney and other authors. 



The tail is flattened, the caudal pore a small slit not reaching the 

 end, as figured for 0. friabilis from San Marcos. The mantle over 

 the lung has some irregular scattered spots and some of the branches 

 of the vena cava are diffusely pigmented in places. The pulmonary 

 vein and its branches are not pigmented. The collar usually has a 

 black patch or several spots. Specimens from many localities 

 examined. 



In two examples of 0. c. polita from Cades Cove I found a 

 few spots near the branches of vena cava and on the collar in one, 

 the other being without pigment spots. 



The genitalia of an individual from York Furnace, Pa., have been 

 figured in these Proceedings for 1894, p. 14, PL I, fig. 5. 



In other specimens opened the penis and epiphallus are less 

 swollen, but otherwise similar. The base of the vagina is swollen 

 and white, not chocolate-colored, as in the Arkansan form. The 

 retractor muscle of the penis is rather short. The epiphallus arises 

 near the end of the penis, but not quite so near as in 0. kopnodes. 



1 have examined several radulae. One from Emporium, Cameron 

 County, Pa., has 54, 5, 1, 5, 54 teeth (PI. XXXVIII, fig. 1), the 

 central and laterals with side cutting points. The decrease of the 

 marginals to the outer edge is very gradual, as usual. 



Another radula from Pennsylvania has 45, 5, 1, 5, 45 teeth. Binney 

 found 60, 4, 1, 4, 60 teeth in one, 57, 1, 57 in another radula. 



The number of teeth and of laterals is variable in different colonies, 

 but apparently neither reaches the number found in 0. kopnodes. 

 The ectocones are a little better developed than in 0. friabilis, but 

 it is doubtful whether some radulae could be distinguished. 



Rafinesque's description is as follows: "Omphalina, differs from 

 Helix by no lips, but an umbilic. 0. cuprea, suboval, four spires, 

 smooth, brittle, diaphanous, coppery, shining, opening very large. 

 In Kentucky." While this definition leaves much to be desired, 

 it is excellent as far as it goes. It will apply to no other Kentucky 

 shell, to my knowledge. The adjective "coppery" is especially 

 good. Binney years ago recognized cuprea as identical with fuli- 

 ginosa, but he continued to use the later name, either being opposed 

 to change or perhaps considering Rafinesque an outlaw, undeserving 

 of recognition. This view seems to have been prevalent with the 

 early American conchologists. 




472 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[July, 



Binney states that he never received this species from west of the 

 Mississippi River south of Iowa. I never saw it in Iowa, nor do 

 I know of any record from Iowa, Minnesota or any northern State 

 west of the Mississippi. 



Omphalina caprea ozarkensis P. and F. 



Omphalina fuliginosa ozarkensis Pilsbry and Ferriss, Proc. A. N. S. Phila., 

 1906, p. 562. 



Shell similar to that of 0. cuprea. Soft parts differing by having 

 the branches of the vena cava in the lung intensely black-pigmented, 

 showing through the shell in life. Epiphallus inserted midway on 

 the penis, not distally as it is in 0. cuprea. 



B 



Fig. 1. — 0. cuprea ozarkensis. A, pallial region of individual from Magazine 

 Mountain. B, the same as seen in an unopened specimen removed from the 

 shell, the pigmented blood vessels showing through the mantle. Petit Jean, 

 Ark. 



Petit Jean Mountains, south of Magazine Mountain, Arkansas. 

 -Cotypes No. 91,348 A. N. S. P., collected by Ferriss and Pilsbry, 

 April 1 and 2, 1903. Also on the north side of the summit of Maga- 

 zine Mountain, Logan County, Arkansas, March 28 to April 2, 1903, 

 and Sugarloaf Mountain, on the Oklahoma boundary. 



I can find no differential characters in the shells of this race, though 

 the microscopic striation and obscure granulation may be a trifle 

 more distinct than in cuprea; but the anatomical characters seem 

 .so diverse that a special race is indicated. In the field it was at 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 473 



once recognized by Mr. Ferriss and myself as unlike any Omphalina 

 we had seen, on account of the black lines of the lung showing 

 through the shell. 



As usual in this genus, it lives on moist, well-shaded hillsides, 

 buried in the leaf-covered humus up to the apex, which alone is 

 exposed. 



The external characters of foot and body are substantially as in 

 0. friabilis from San Marcos, Texas, except that the last half of the 

 last whorl, as seen through the shell in life, shows a few irregular, 

 sharply defined black lines on a pale, or in life cream-white ground. 



The pallial tract when opened (fig. 1 A) shows a short subtriangular 

 brown kidney, the ureter projecting well forward from its apex. 

 The secondary ureter is closed throughout. The pulmonary vein 

 branches somewhat freely near its anterior end, and there are two 

 slender, weak branches of the pericardial vein. All of these veins 

 are colorless, like the pale wall of the lung. Most of the branches of 

 the vena cava are intensely black and show on the outside as black 

 lines. This marking renders the subspecies easy to recognize in 

 the field or when handling alcoholic specimens. 



The genital system (PI. XXXVII, fig. 3) is practically identical 

 with that of 0. friabilis from San Marcos, Tex., but differs in the 

 following points: the base of the vagina is not swollen, the penis 

 is more slender and the muscle controlling the epiphallus is inserted 

 at the distal third of the latter instead of near its end. 



The epiphallus is inserted about midway on the penis, whereas 

 in 0. cuprea it inserts near the distal end. The organs of the indi- 

 vidual drawn measure: 



Length of penis 7.5 mm. 



'.' "epiphallus 14 " 



"Ns^gina 6.3 " 



" " spermatheca and duct... .13 " 



Two radulse examined agree essentially with 0. cuprea. Formula 

 of teeth about 54, 6, 1, 6, 54. 

 Two shells measure: 

 Alt. 15.0, diam. 25 mm. 



" 13.3, " 22 " 

 The jaw is yellow, with truncate ends, the median projection 

 either low or strong. 

 31 




474 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[July. 



Omphalina cuprea polita Pils. 



Omphalina fuliginosa polita Pils., Nautilus, XII, p. 86, Dec, 1898. Ferriss, 

 Nautilus, XIV, p. 56; Pilsbry, Proc. A. N. S. Phila., 1900, p. 134. 



Has not been dissected. It is characteristic of the mountains 

 ■along the Tennessee — North Carolina boundary. ' 



Omphalina pilsbryi Clapp. 



Omphalina pilsbryi Clapp, Nautilus, XVIII, p. 30, July, 1904. 



The foot has a wide double margin, the upper groove obsolete 

 near the end of the tail, as usual (fig. 2 C). The tail is elevated, not 

 flat as in cuprea. The caudal pore is a short median slit, sur- 

 rounded by concentric grooves (fig. 2 A). 



The mantle-edge bears a very large, right lobe and smaller left, 

 both being conspicuously larger than in other known Omphalinas. 

 The lung is irregularly and rather copiously maculate (fig. 2 B, 

 anterior end from the inside). 



The penis and epiphallus are very long and there is a thick choco- 

 late-colored vaginal gland around the base of the vagina. Other 

 organs as usual in the genus (PI. XXXVII, fig. 6). 



Fig. 2. — Omphalina pilsbryi Clapp. A, end of foot and tail pore. B, anterior 

 end of lung and mantle-edge. C, side view of foot, contracted in alcohol, 

 showing position of genital orifice and double foot-groove. 



The jaw is pale yellow and has a very strong median projection. 



The radula (PI. XXXVIII, fig. 7) has 55, 1, 55 teeth with 5 or 6 



laterals. The basal plates of central and lateral teeth are somewhat 



shorter than in 0. cuprea, and the transition teeth have a more 



distinct and more acute ectocone. Otherwise the teeth do not 



differ materially from those of 0. cuprea. 



Omphalina kopnodes (W. G. Binn.). 



Zoniies capnodes W. G. B., Terrestr. Moll., V, p. 98, pi. 2, f. K, teeth. 

 Ann. N. Y. Acad. Sci. I, 357, pi. 14, f. C, genitalia of specimen from near 

 Knoxville, Tenn. Also first supplement to Terr. Moll., V, p. 137. 



The foot has the usual double margin. The tail pore is in form 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 475 



of a median slit, with some short converging furrows on each side 



(fig. 3). The mantle has the same profuse 



maculation figured for 0. pilsbryi. The 



mantle-lobes are not quite so large as in 



0. pilshryi, but larger than in any other 



Omphalina. 



In genitalia (PL XXXVII, fig. 1), it 

 resembles 0. pilsbryi, but the proportions 

 of penis and epiphallus differ, and the 

 latter is inserted much nearer to the distal Fig. 3. 



end of the penis than in 0. pilsbryi, only 



1.5 mm. from the end, being more nearly terminal than in any other 

 Omphalina. The epiphallus passes without abrupt contraction into 

 the vas deferens. The vagina is enveloped in a large chocolate 

 vaginal gland. 



The jaw is pale yellow, with a strong median projection. The 

 radula (PI. XXXVIII, figs. 3, 5) has 66, 7, 1, 7, 66 teeth. There 

 are distinct outer cutting-points on the central and lateral teeth, 

 the change to the marginal type is very abrupt. A group of mar- 

 ginals from the middle of the marginal field is figured. The teeth 

 decrease in size very gradually towards the outer margin of the 

 radula. 



The specimens examined and figured were collected at Monte 

 Sano, near Huntsville, Ala., by Mr, H. H. Smith. The type locality 

 is "Alabama." 



Binney found 66, 1, 66 (57, 9, 1, 9, 57) teeth in one, 46, 1, 46 teeth 

 in another radula. I doubt whether the latter radula was from an 

 adult individual. He describes it as with no side cusps, but having 

 cutting-points on the lateral and central teeth, thus agreeing with 

 the radula I examined in the shape of the teeth; but the number of 

 laterals was 9 in his preparation, 7 in mine. The genitalia as figured 

 by Binney agree well with my dissection except in one important 

 particular: he figures the epiphallus as arising near the base of the 

 penis, whereas I found it to spring from near the distal end. The 

 lower part of the epiphallus is bound to the penis, as shown in my 

 figure, and it is probable that Binney did not determine its real 

 point of insertion. 



The number of lateral teeth in 0. kopnodes exceeds that of any 

 others of our species examined except immature 0. friabilis from 

 Wyandotte, Okla., which has teeth of a quite different shape. 




476 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [July, 



Omphalina friabilis (Binney). 



The type locality of this species is banks of the Wabash River 

 and in Illinois. It ranges southwest to San Marcos, Tex., and is a 

 common snail in suitable stations in Arkansas and northeastern 

 Oklahoma, where Ferriss and I collected in 1903.^ Specimens have 

 been dissected from Mablevale, Ark., Wyandotte, Okla., and San 

 Marcos, Tex. As they show some variation, notes on all are given. 



At Mt. Carmel, 111., the shells are typical. They lack spiral 

 striae. The Arkansas shells are more depressed and have spiral 

 striation. Moreover, the apices are sometimes slightly worn. In 

 Texas the shells are very globose with spiral striae and perfect apices. 



Mablevale, Ark. (PI. XXXVIII, fig. .4).— The foot has the 

 usual double margination. Caudal pore as in friabilis from San 

 Marcos, Tex. The mantle over the lung shows a few irregular 

 scattered small black spots and flecks, and an oblong black spot 

 marking the position of the reflexed ureter, but the veins are not 

 pigmented. 



The epiphallus is swollen and not much longer than the penis. 

 The vagina is longer than usual, white to the base, which is not 

 swollen. As the specimen was very hard, from preservation in 

 strong alcohol, it is possible that a vaginal gland was present and 

 much contracted or possibly torn off in dissection. (PI. XXXVII, 

 fig. 4.) The jaw is yellow, with truncate ends and a rather low 

 median projection. 



Wyandotte, Okla. — Two specimens dissected. In one the 

 radula is normal for 0. friabilis. In the other, an immature example 

 with a shell 16 mm. in diameter, the radula (PI. XXXVIII, fig. 2) 

 has about 61, 1, 61 teeth with 7 laterals. Both cusps and basal 

 plates are decidedly shorter than in any other Omphalina. The 

 marginal teeth also have remarkably short cusps. All of the teeth 

 are separated more than usual in this genus. The number of lateral 

 teeth is greater than in any other of our species except 0. kopnodes, 

 which has much longer teeth. The jaw is pale yellow, with a strong 

 median projection. 



The epiphallus is almost terminal on the penis, a position which 

 I think must be due to immaturity (PL XXXVII, fig. 5). 



The pedal grooves are double as usual, caudal pore a simple sUt. 

 There is some sparse blackish streaking on the lung (fig. 4). 



^ Specimens reported in these Proceedings for 1906, p. 562, as 0. fuliginosa 

 from Wyandotte, in the "Wyandotte Nation," Oklahoma, are young 0. friabilis. 




1911.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



477 



Fig. 4. — 0. friabilis from Wyandotte, removed from the shell, showing pigmen- 

 tation of mantle. 



San Marcos, Tex. — The pedal lines are double as usual, the 

 deeper ones meeting in a curve over the tail. No distinct caudal 

 mucus pore is discernible in some alcoholic specimens, but the 

 margin is less deeply grooved near the end of the tail than elsewhere. 

 Other individuals have a simple slit. There are no specialized dorsal 

 or facial grooves. The mantle margin has a short right body-lobe, 

 but no shell- lobes. The sole is tripartite. All the veins and arteries 

 of the lung are outlined with black pigment, causing it to appear 

 much darker than the lung of Arkansas examples dissected. 



The atrium is excessively short, only 

 reaching through the integument. The 

 penis is stout and short with terminal 

 retractor muscle, inserted distally in the 

 lung floor. About in the middle of the 

 penis a long stout epiphallus enters. It \///ii 



tapers distally into the vas deferens, and \[\l 



near the end receives a very slender muscle 

 which is inserted in the connective tissue Fig. 5. — 0. friabiMs 

 around the base of the penis. The vagina gL'cos, enZf foot 

 is chocolate colored and much swollen with tail-pore 

 below. The spermatheca is very large, 



oblong, on a slender duct about as long as the vagina (PI. XXXVII, 

 fig. 2). The organs measure as follows: 



Length of penis about 6.0 mm. 



" epiphallus about 15.0 " 



" vagina 8.5 " 



" " spermatheca and duct 13.5 " 



The jaw is pale yellowish-gray, with a median ridge and strong 

 projection, sides distinctly striate. 




478 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Juty, 



The radula of a San Marcos specimen (PI. XXXVIII, fig. 6) has 

 65, 5, 1, 5, 65 teeth, the cusps, especially of the centrals, being longer 

 and narrower than in any other of our species of Omphalina. Two 

 radulae examined. 



In an individual from Mablevale, Ark. (PI. XXXVIII, fig. 4), 

 there are about 55, 5, 1, 5, 55 teeth, the centrals somewhat less 

 lengthened. Counted in another place, I found 53, 5, 1, 5, 53 teeth 

 on the same radula. 



Binney records 57, 1, 57 teeth with 6 perfect laterals. The locality 

 of the snail he examined was not stated. Except in having somewhat 

 longer cusps, the radulae I prepared differ very little from 0. cuprea. 



Genus MESOMPHIX (' Kaf.') Beck. 



Beck, Index MoUuscorum, p. 7 (1837), for M. virginalis B. (undescribed), 

 M. fuliginosa Griflf., M. walkeri Gray, M. Icevigata Raf., M. elliptica 

 Mich, and M. olivetorum Gm. 



Herrmannsen, Indicis Generum Malacozoorum Primordia, II, p. 40, "typus 

 Helix Icevigata Raf." (July 17, 1847). 



T he shell is like Omphalina, except that it is more depressed, with 

 a much smaller umbilicus and the embryonic whorls are ribbed or 

 striate radially in most species. 



External anatomy as in Omphalina. Genitalia differing from 

 Omphalina by the development of a flagelliform gland terminal on 

 the penis. The epiphallus is distinctly differentiated from the vas 

 deferens. Vaginal gland wanting. Jaw reddish-brown or black, 

 very opaque, with a small median projection. 



Radula with the basal-plate of the central tooth contracted in the 

 middle; lateral teeth few, to 4. Marginal teeth as in Omphalina. 



Type M. Icevigata. 



This genus is well differentiated from Omphalina by the presence 

 of a flagelliform penial gland, a very unusual structure in American 

 Zonitidce. This gland is long and slender in M. subplana 

 (PI. XXXVII, fig. 7, p.g.), shorter and stout in M. Icevigata (fig. 10). 

 The shell often bears a diagnostic feature in its scuptured apex. 

 The jaw in all the species examined (M. Icevigata, subplana, rugeli, 

 andrewsce and inornata) is remarkable for its dark or black color. In 

 Omphalina the jaw is pale yellow, so far as observed. 



These features are an advance beyond the morphology of Ompha- 

 lina, being, as it were, superposed upon the Omphalinoid organization. 

 The radula also is more specialized by the partial or complete elimina- 

 tion of lateral teeth. 



In describing the genus Mesomphix, Rafinesque mentioned no 




1911.] NATURAL SCIEN'CES OF PHILADELPHIA. 479 



species. Its foundation therefore dates from the memorable Index 

 of Beck, who included some species of other groups. Herrmannsen, 

 in 1847, expressly selected Icevigata as the type, probably because 

 this was known to be a Rafinesquian species. Gray, in the same 

 year, names Icevigata and olivetorum as examples. Von Martens 

 and American authors have used the name Mesomphix for hetero- 

 geneous assemblages of species, but this later usage cannot be 

 upheld against Herrmannsen's selection of Icevigata as type of the 

 group. 



The dentition in Mesomphix is varied in the several species. 

 M. Icevigata is quite peculiar in having no lateral teeth, the inner ones 

 being transitional to the marginal type, and the central tooth is 

 peculiar in the form of the basal plate and the great reduction of its 

 single cusp. The radula in this species is evidently evolving towards 

 the type of Circinaria. 



In the other species the central tooth is well developed and 

 tricuspid, with a somewhat hour-glass-shaped basal plate. This is 

 least marked in M. rugeli, which has teeth much like Omphalina. 

 The number of teeth is also characteristic, as seen in the formulas 

 below, in which the transition teeth are counted as marginals. 



Cen 



M. inornata 



M. andrewsce 



M. subplana T 



M. rugeli 



M. laevigata 



Mesomphix may be divided into three subgenera, as follows: 



I. Embryonic whorls of the shell radially striate. 



Subgenus MESOMPHIX. 



No lateral teeth; central tooth with a single small cusp. Flagelli- 

 form gland of the penis very short. Type and only species M. 

 Icevigata "Raf. " Beck. 



Subgenus MICROMPHIX (new). 



Several (two to four) lateral teeth; central tooth well developed, 

 tricuspid. Flagelliform gland of the penis long, about half the 

 length of the penis. Type M. subplana Binn. Includes also 

 M. rugeli. 



II. Embryonic whorls smooth or faintly striate spirally. 



Subgenus OMPHIX (new). 



Radula and genitalia as in Micromphix, but embryonic whorls 




480 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [J^lty, 



of the shell smooth. Type M. inornata. Includes also M. andrewsoe 

 Pils. 



Mesomphix laevigata Beck. 



Beck. Index Moll., p. 7, based upon F^russac, Histoire, etc., pi. 82, f. 6. 

 Helix laevigata Pfr., not of Pennant, 1777. Bland, Ann. Lye. N. H. of N. Y., 



VII, p. 120 (identity of laevigata with inornata Say affirmed). 

 Omphalina laevigata "Raf." Beck, Pilsbry, Proc. A. N. S. Phila., 1900, p. 134. 



Beck gives the locality as North America in South Carolina, 

 but he gave no description, basing the name solely upon Ferussac's 

 figures of specimens sent by Rafinesque from Kentucky; hence the 

 type locality is in the latter State. 



The common form of Icevigata from Kentucky south to northern 

 Florida, Alabama, and southwest to Lake Charles, Louisiana, is 

 rather a capacious shell, rarely entirely green, usually russet above, 

 green beneath. The striae are very fine, close and deeply cut, 

 covered with a beautiful sculpture of minute papillae in close spiral 

 lines. A large specimen from Alabama measures, alt. 16, diam. 

 26.5 mm., umbilicus about 1.8 mm. wide. 



While there are local differences in size, color, and minute sculpture, 

 it seems doubtful whether any definable races exist except in the 

 southern Alleghanies, where several forms have been differentiated. 

 A very small race occurs in Florida. 



Mesomphiz leevigata monticola n. subsp. 



Omphalina Icevigata (specimens from Great Smoky Mountains) Pils., Proc. 

 A. N. S. Phila., 1900, p. 135. 



The shell is more glossy on the upper surface than M. Icevigata, 

 the striae less deeply cut and less regular, covered with a much more 

 minute, less distinct, microscopic granulation. Smaller than typical 

 Icevigata and more depressed, green throughout. 



Alt. 11.5, diam. 20.5 mm.; 4f whorls. 



Sugar Cove (type locality) and Cades Cove at the western foot 

 of Thunderhead Mountain, and also on Thunderhead nearly to the 

 summit, Blount County, Tennessee, collected by Messrs. Ferriss, 

 Walker, Clapp, Sargent and Pilsbry, 1889. Types No. 71,367 

 A. N. S. P. 



The same form has also been collected by the late Mrs. George W. 

 Andrews, in the same neighborhood, and it was also taken on the 

 Little Tennessee River near Tallassee Ford by Mr. Ferriss. 



The so-called Icevigata from southwestern Pennsylvania is much 

 closer to this race than to typical Icevigata, and for the present they 

 may be placed here. The shells differ from those of the southern 

 mountains chiefly by being rather strongly chestnut or reddish- 




1911.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 



481 



brown tinted. Those seen are from Somerset and Fayette Coun- 

 ties, Pennsylvania. 



Fig. 6. — Mesomphix Icevigata monticola. End of foot and tail-pore of two 

 individuals from Cades Cove, Tenn. 



The penis is fusiform, slender at its distal end, terminating in a 

 stout finger-shaped gland, and with a very short and strong retractor 

 muscle. Epiphallus somewhat longer than the penis. The lower 

 portion of the oviduct is much convoluted. Vagina short, whitish, 

 not swollen basally, and no vaginal gland was seen (PI. XXXVII, 

 fig. 10). 



Length of penis 8.5 mm. 



" epiphallus 10.0 " 



" " vagina 3.0 " 



" " spermatheca and duct 10.0 " 



The caudal gland is an irregular curved fissure, partly surrounding 

 a median areole (fig. 6). 



Fig. 7. — Teeth of M. I. monticola, Cades Cove, Tenn. 



The radula of a specimen from Cades Cove has 19, 1, 19 teeth 

 (fig. 7). The central tooth has a very narrow cusp with a minute 

 cutting point. There is no trace of side cusps. The inner side 

 teeth are "transition teeth," with short, oblique, conic cusps, no 




482 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [July, 



ectocones. They are of the aculeate rather than the quadrate form. 

 Further out the cusps are strictly aculeate, but short and stout. 



Binney records 19, 1, 19 and 17, 1, 17 teeth in specimens of loevigata 

 he examined. His figure shows rudimentary side cusps, but no 

 cutting points on the central, and a well-developed ectocone on the 

 first lateral tooth. The locality of his specimen is not stated. 



Mesomphiz laevigata perlsevis (Pils.). 



Omphalina Icevigata perlcevis Pilsbry, Proc. A. N. S. Phila., 1900, p. 135. 

 Ferriss, Nautilus, XIV, p. 56. 



(a) The radial striae on the embryonic 1^ whorls are coarser than 

 in Icevigatus, weak or wanting on the first half whorl. The typical 

 form from Tallassee Ford, Monroe Countj^, Tenn., has irregular 

 wrinkles on the last whorl, with a spiral sculpture of very faint, 

 close, smooth lines, often nearly or quite obsolete. The largest 

 shell of the type lot measures: alt. 10, diam. 17.5, aperture alt. 9, 

 width 10 mm.; whorls 4|. 



A few shells, not quite adult, from Lawrenceburg, Dearborn 

 County, Ind. (A. C. Billups), do not appear to differ from perlcevis. 



(6) Three lots from Macon County, Ga., and Black Mountains, 

 N. C, collected by Hemphill, and from Burnside, Ky., collected 

 by Ferriss, differ by having the last whorl closely striate above, but 

 under the microscope only very fine, smooth, spiral lines are seen. 

 A specimen from Macon County measures: alt. 12, diam. 19.5, 

 aperture 9x11 mm., with 5 whorls. 



(c) Another form related to perlcevis is densely striate above, but 

 the aperture is wider, less rounded. The upper surface is often 

 russet-tinted, as in M. Icevigata, but the microscopic spirals are 

 faint, fine and smooth, not granulose. The aperture is more oblique 

 than in the preceding race. Alt. 12, diam. 21, aperture 9.3 x 12.7 

 mm"., whorls 5. 



This form is from Cheoah River at the junction of Yellow Creek, 

 Graham County, N. C. 



Some shells not quite mature, but apparently the same, were 

 taken by Rhoads at Sawyer Spring, Walden's Ridge, Hamilton 

 County, Tenn., at an elevation of about 2,300 feet. 



Forms (6) and (c) may eventually be separated as distinct sub- 

 species. 



Mesomphix laevigata latior Pils. 



Omphalina Icevigata latior Pils., Proc. A. N. S. Phila. 1900, p. 135. Ferriss, 

 Nautilus, XIV, p. 56. 



The sculpture of the embryonic 1| whorls is coarser than in 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 483 



Icevigata; then 1| finely striate whorls follow, after which the striae 

 weaken to low irregular wrinkles. The last 1^ whorls have fine 

 granules in spiral lines, as in the Great Smoky Mountain monticola. 

 The soft anatomy has not been examined. It has been found at 

 Tallassee Ford of the Little Tennessee River, Monroe County, 

 Tenn., and at Chambers Creek Church, Swain County, N. C. 



Mesomphix (T) perfragilis (Wetherby). 



Zonites -perfragilis A. G. Wetherby, Notes on American Land Shells, Journ. 

 Cincinnati Soc. Nat. Hist., IV, p. 326, 1881 (undescribed) . Same journal 

 for 1894, p. 215. 



On principle I oppose the introduction of MS. or ''provisional" 

 names into print, because any name not fully defined entails labor 

 and waste of time upon others. Since this name has been printed, 

 it may be well to give what information I can. I quote from a 

 letter received from Wetherby years ago, date not preserved. "I 

 tell you about Zonites perfragilis W., MS., so that in case you should 

 go into the limestone region of middle Tennessee you may be on 

 the lookout for it. It is a species built much on the plan of Z. 

 Icevigatus and varies in size as that does. All the specimens yet 

 found have a shell thinner than that of Vitrina limpida. I first 

 found it in a sink-hole in a cedar glade on the Murphreesboro Pike 

 about two miles out of Nashville, in August, 1875. Not doubting 

 my ability to clean them, with care, I plunged them into hot water, 

 but the experiment was fatal. I lost them all. I next put some in 

 alcohol, but before we got back to Cincinnati they were reduced to 

 nothing as to the shells. It is not uncommon, I think, in the limestone 

 sink-holes, especially in the damper parts." 



In 1894 Wetherby gave the following description : " As thin and 

 pellucid as Vitrina limpida, the shells being extremely fragile and 

 delicate. They were much flattened, and the umbilical opening was 

 much larger than typical Icevigatus." Rutherford County, Tenn. 

 This description was from memory, the specimens having been lost 

 as noted above. 



In another letter Wetherby reiterates the opinion that perfragilis 

 is a very distinct species. It should be easy to find the original 

 locality and to recognize the species from the details given above. 

 They could probably be cleaned successfully if drowned before 

 boiling. Otherwise the forcible retraction of the animal, in shells 

 so fragile, breaks them up. 

 Mesomphix subplana (Binn.). 



The caudal pore resembles that of Omphalina pilshryi. 



The penis has a long, slender, flagelliform terminal gland, 5 mm. 




484 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Julj^ 



in length. Its retractor muscle is long and slender (PI. XXXVII, 

 fig. 7). Epiphallus 12 mm. long. 



The radula examined (PL XXXIX, fig. 1) has 36, 1, 36 teeth. 

 The basal-plates are very long, the cusps arising far backward, about 

 the middle of the plates, about as in M. andrewsce and M. inornatus. 

 Two or three teeth on each side may be reckoned laterals, having 

 well-developed side cusps and cutting points; the next is transi- 

 tional, the rest marginals. The marginal teeth are closely crowded, 

 with long slender cusps, longer than in other species of Mesomphix, 

 and more like those of some Omphalinas. Binney found 37, 1, 37 

 teeth in a Roan Mountain specimen, agreeing in form with my 

 figure except that the basal-plates are a little shorter. 



The large number, closely crowded and long cusps of the marginal 

 teeth are characteristic of this species. 



Mesomphix rugeli (W. G. Binn.). 



Zonites rugeli W. G. B., Ann. N. Y. Acad. Sci., I, p. 357, pi. 15, f. H (shell), 

 I (teeth), pi. 14, f. D (genitalia). 



Type locality. Roan Mountain, Mitchell County, N. C. The 

 individual I dissected was collected there. 



The mantle is unpigmented or of a diffuse smoky color, darker 

 near the collar. The male organs (PI. XXXVII, fig. 9) do not differ 

 materially from M. suhplana. Binney's figure shows the epiphallus 

 arising too near the base of the penis, but its real insertion is not 

 far from the middle. Length of penis 8, epiphallus 9.5 mm. 



The radula examined (PI. XXXIX, figs. 2, 3) has 41, 1, 41 teeth, 

 of which about 4 or possibly 5 on each side are laterals, with well- 

 developed cusps and cutting points. The central tooth has a wider, 

 shorter basal-plate than in allied species, more like that of Omphalina. 

 The intermediate marginal teeth are rather stout and ungraceful 

 (fig. 3, left side). The outer ones decrease rapidly to the outer 

 edge of the radula (fig. 2). The radula figured has an abnormal 

 row of teeth on one side, the second lateral having a double ectocone. 

 The teeth are all shorter than in M. suhplana. Binney records 

 38, 1, 38 teeth, with 4 or 5 laterals, the form of the individual teeth 

 being as figured by me. 



This species is quite distinct by the short form of the central teeth 

 and the comparatively large number of lateral and marginal teeth. 



Mesomphix rugeli oxycocous (Vanatta). 



Omphalina rugeli oxycoccus Vanatta, Nautilus, XVI, p. 106, January, 1903. 

 Cranberry and Banners Elk, N. C. 




1911.] NATURAL SCIEXCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 485 



Mesomphiz inornata (Say). 



Cf. Bland, Ann. Lye. N. H. of N. Y., VII, 127. 



Genitalia as in M. rugeli. Caudal pore as in 0. cuprea. 



The radula (PL XXXIX, fig. 5) has 24, 1, 24 teeth. The tricuspid 

 centrals have an hour-glass-shaped basal-plate and well-developed 

 cusps. There are two lateral teeth, the next two teeth being tran- 

 sitional. Three side teeth have cutting points on the ectocones. 

 The marginal teeth are less crowded than in M. subplana or M. 

 andrewsoB, with shorter cusps than the former. 



The number of teeth in a row is much smaller in M. inornata 

 than in any species except M. Icevigata. The cusps of the lateral 

 teeth have a bulging outline on the inner side as in M. andrewsce, but 

 they are much longer than in that species. 

 Mesomphix andrewsae (Pils.). 



The tail pore is like that of M. Imvigata. The mantle is not pig- 

 mented over the lung. The genital system (PL XXXVII, fig. 11) 

 differs from related forms by the greater length of the spermatheca 

 duct and epiphallus. The penis is strongly swollen near the base 

 and has a rather long terminal gland (p.g.). Its retractor muscle 

 is long. The very short vagina is somewhat swollen near the base, 

 but I can see no vaginal gland there. Length of penis 3.5; of 

 epiphallus 14 mm.; of spermatheca and duct 9.5 mm. 



The radula (PL XXXIX, fig. 4) has 40, 1, 40 teeth, more crowded 

 than in M. inornata, the central and lateral teeth have much shorter, 

 stouter cusps. There are three lateral teeth, the next two being 

 transitional. The marginal teeth are less slender and graceful than 

 in M. inornata. 



The radula of M. andrewsce most resembles that of M. inornata, 

 but differs by the much shorter cusps and the far greater number 

 of teeth. 



The soft anatomy of M. a. montivaga Pils. has not been examined. 



Explanation of Plates XXXVII, XXXVIII and XXXIX. 



Plate XXXVII. — Genitalia of Omphalina and Mesomphix. 



Fig. 1. — Omphalina kopnodes (W. G. B.). Monte Sano, near Huntsville, 



Ala. (H. H. Smith). 

 Fig. 2.— Omphalina friabilis (W. G. B.). San Marcos, Tex. (Pilsbry and 



Ferriss, 1903). 

 Fig. 3. — Omphalina cuprea ozarkensis P. and F. Magazine Mountain, Ark. 

 Fig. 4. — Omphalina friabilis W. G.B. Mablevale, Ark. No. 81,115 A. N. 



S. P. 

 Fig. 5. — Omphalina friabilis W. G. B. Immature. Wyandotte, Okla. 

 Fig. 6. — Omphalina pilsbryi Clapp. Near Wetumpka, Ala. No. 87,349 



A. N. S. P. 




486 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jwly^ 



Fig. 7. — M esomphix subplana (Binn.). Thunderhead Mountain. No. 58,004 



A. N. S. P. 

 Fig. 8. — Omphalina lucubrata (Say). Texolo, V. C, Mex. 

 Fig. 9. — Mesomphix rugeli (W. G. B.). Roan Mountain, N. C. No. 70,566. 

 Fig. 10. — Mesomphix lasvigata monticola Pils. Cades Cove, Blount County, 



Tenn. 

 Fig. 11. — Mesomphix andreivscB Pils. Cades Cove, Tenn. No. 76,821 



A. N, S. P. 



Plate XXXVIII. — Fig. 1. — Omphalina cuprea Rai. Emporium, Cameron 

 County, Pa. No. 68,481 A. X. S. P. 

 Fig. 2.—0. friahilis W. G. B. Wyandotte, I. T. No. 91,353 A. N. S. P. 

 Figs. 3, 5.-— 0. kopnodes (Binn.). Monte Sano, near Huntsville, Ala. 

 Fig. 4. — 0. friahilis (W. G. B.). Mablevale, Ark. 

 Fig. Q.—O. friahilis (W. G. B). San Marcos, Tex. 

 Fig. 7. — 0. pilsbryi Clapp. Near Wetumpka, Ala. 



Plate XXXIX. — Fig. 1. — Mesomphix subplana Binn. Thunderhead Mountain. 

 Figs. 2, 3. — Mesomphix rugeli W. G. Binney. Roan Mountain, North 



Carolina. 

 Fig. 4. — Mesomphix andrewsce Pils. Central, lateral and transitional, and 



two marginal teeth. Cades Cove, Tenn. 

 Fig. 5. — Mesomphix inornala Saj'. Pittsburgh, Pa. 




1911.] . NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 487 



A NEW CALIFORNIAN CHITON. 

 • BY S. S. BERRY. 



Through the kindness of Dr. Harold Heath, of Stanford Uni- 

 versity, I have had placed at my disposal a series of small chitons 

 dredged by him in Monterey Bay, Cal. Among them are several 

 specimens of the curious Mopalia heathii and an equally aberrant 

 allied species which seems undescribed. To contain these anomalous 

 forms, I propose the following new group. 



DENDROCHITON nov. subgenus. 



Species small; valves divided into more or less distinct areas in 

 the usual manner; insertion plates as in Ischnochiton, the posterior 

 valve >vithout a posterior-median sinus. Valve I with 7-8 slits; 

 valves II-VII with 1,1 slits; valve VIII with 6-8 slits. Sculpture 

 variable, as in Mopalia. Girdle covered above with minute ovoid 

 spinelets or spicules, larger on the lower surface. Sutural and 

 intersutural tufts present, the former well developed with a very 

 long and branching central bristle. 



This subgenus in large measure breaks up the distinction between 

 the Mopaliidcs and the Ischnochitonidce, presenting many of the 

 features proper to both groups. In this connection it should be 

 remarked that the girdle of even the true Mopalias is not strictly 

 nude, but in the young, at least, is furnished (though not densely) 

 with minute spinelets very similar to those of Dendrochiton. 



Type: the following species. 

 Uopalia (Dendrochiton) thamnopora "■ sp. Plate XL, figs. 4, 5, 6, 8. 



Shell small, oblong, rather narrow for Mopalia, much elevated 

 and'strongly carinated, the side slopes nearly straight. 



Valves sharply beaked in front; the lateral areas fairly well 

 defined, not raised, having a few very faint radial grooves, but 

 without well-marked sutural or diagonal ribs. Central areas orna- 

 mented with a series of about nine or ten very strong, low, broad, 

 longitudinal riblets, curved and converging toward the median 

 ridge; their intervals of nearly equal breadth, not latticed or other- 

 wise sculptured. On the jugal tract these ribs are obsolete or 

 wanting. Entire surface minutely granular-porous, but not so 




488 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Aug., 



distinctly as in M. (D.) heathii, and due largely to the numerous 

 sense organs which under high power appear with great clearness. 



Anterior valve everywhere very finely granulose, otherwise without 

 distinct sculpture. Central area of posterior valve reduced, but 

 similar in ornamentation to those of the median valves; mucro 

 anterior to the middle of the tegmentum; posterior slope steep, 

 slightly concave; posterior margin of the tegmentum in general 

 semicircular, but rather abruptly (though not extensively) squarish 

 truncate or emarginate at the middle. 



Mopalia thamnopora. — 1. Outline of entire animal. 

 Outline of interior of tail valve. 



2. Girdle spines. 3. 



Anterior valve with 7 slits; intermediate valves with 1,1 slits; 

 tail valve "ischnoid," with a regular crescentic insertion plate cut 

 by 6 slits. Sinus broad, rather shallow; in last valve narrower and 

 minutely crenulate. No median sinus behind, and no indications 

 of an approach to this condition other than the above-noted squaring 

 of the tegmentum. 



Girdle narrow, apparently nude even under a hand lens, but shown 

 by high power to be well clothed above with numerous exceedingly 

 minute, not very crowded, ovoid spicules developed into stout 

 elongate spines at the margin. The spinelets of the lower surface 

 are longer, flatter and more pointed than those of the upper, being 

 somewhat intermedfate in character between these and the marginal 

 ones. 



Opposite each suture is a pore from which springs a group of 




1911.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



489 



about six recurved bristle-like hairs surrounding a single much 

 larger and longer bristle, which branches freely, and in living or 

 alcoholic material is a prominent feature even to the unaided eye. 

 Being very brittle, these structures are frequently broken off, but 

 their stumps or pores are always evident and show a very regular 

 arrangement. Apparently homologous with the sutural tufts are 

 two similar ones on each side of the head valve, one on either side of 

 the tail valve, and one in the median line in front and behind. In 

 addition there is a second series of much smaller but equally distinct 

 tufts lying just outside of the first and in more or less regular alterna- 

 tion with them, as shown in fig. 1. The long central bristles have 

 a thickened sheath-like base from which are given off slender, 

 more or less recurved, hair-like processes. Altogether there are 

 22 of these major tufts besides an equal or slightly larger number 

 of the minor (alternating) ones. 



Color (in alcohol) a deep rose-pink, which may be either (1) with- 

 out mottlings, or (2) with a stripe of reddish-brown along each side, 

 or (3) with a broad irregular clouding of pale green, accompanied by 

 some lateral spots of brown or Indian red, or (4) with median spots 

 of bright orange-yellow on some of the valves, and lateral markings 

 of Indian red.' The typical form seems to be pink with sutural 

 spots of brown and more or less green suffusion. The girdle shows 

 alternating bands of burnt sienna and pale buff. The latter are 

 sutural in position and there are also small intersutural spots of the 

 same color. The interior is rose, paler toward the edges, but not so 

 vivid as in M. (D.) heathii. 



Length of largest specimen, 9 mm. ; width 5 mm. 



Type locality: Off Monterey, Cal., in about 15 fathoms (H. 

 Heath, 1908). Fifteen specimens examined, as follows: 



No. 



Locality. 



Depth. Collector. 



Date. 



Author's 

 Register. 



11 

 3 

 1 



Off Monterey, Cal. 

 Off Monterey, Cal. 

 Pacific Grove, Cal. 



15 fms. 

 1 12 fms. 

 iLow tide. 



H. Heath. 

 S. S. Berry. 

 S. S. Berry. 



1908. 

 June, 1906. 

 June, 1906. 



(8) 



(9) 



(10) 



M. (D.) thamnopora seems nearer to the Mopalia heathii of 

 Pilsbry than to any other form known to me, but is so widely diver- 



• This specimen has the usual ground color of pink with niunerous small white 

 spots and a few larger lateral ones of Indian red, but is remarkable in that the 

 central area of the first and second valves only is a clear bright cadmium-yellow. 

 33 




490 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Aug., 



gent in sculpture as well as in other particulars that a glance is 

 sufficient to separate the two. They agree in the characters upon 

 which I have founded the present subgenus, but otherwise do not seem 

 to be remarkably close. For the sake of comparison, a few notes 

 upon the latter species are appended. 



Mopalia (Dendrochiton) heathii Piisbry. Pl. XL. figs. 1, 2, 3, 7. 



Mopalia heathii Piisbry ('98), p. 288. 



Mopalia heathii Keep ('04), p. 350 (merely listed). 



Mopalia heathii Thiele ('10), pp. 108, 109. 



Shell small, oblong, elliptical, wide in relation to its length, 

 carinated, rather elevated, the side-slopes nearly straight. 



Valves wide and short, little beaked; the lateral areas not raised, 

 ill defined; central areas without sculpture^ save the very fine, 

 even, rather distant granulation which covers the whole surface. 

 Posterior valve with semicircular posterior outline, the mucro 

 anterior in position; posterior slope concave, but not so steep as 

 in M. thamnopora. 



cr 



<y 



Mopalia heathii. — 4. Outline of entire animal. 5. Large lateral tooth of the 

 radula. 6. Girdle spines. 7. Outline of interior of tail valve. 



Anterior valve with 8 slits; intermediate valves with 1,1; last 

 valve "ischnoid," with a regular crescentic insertion plate cut by 

 5-8 slits. In the intermediate valves the insertion plates are con- 

 tinuous across the sinus. 



-Piisbry writes: "The intermediate valves very faintly radially trisulcate 

 at the sides," but my specimens exhibit this feature with difficulty. 




1911.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



491 



Except for the sutural bristles, the girdle is stated to be nude, 

 but examination of specimens mounted in xylol or balsam and 

 especially dissolving fragments in Javelle water shows that the 

 condition is approximately the same as in D. thamnopora, although 

 the spicules are even smaller than in that species. In none of the 

 specimens seen were the bristles still adherent at all of the sutures. 

 Usually they are lost except around the posterior valve, and even 

 here they are rarely unbroken. When complete they are longer 

 than in the preceding species, more slender, lack any appearance of 

 surrounding hairs at the base and give off shorter and less numerous 

 recurved processes. Originally there seem to have been one bristle 

 opposite each suture, from two to five in front of the head valve, 

 and two behind the tail valve. There is no mention made by Pilsbry 

 of intersutural tufts, but I find that very small inconspicuous bristles 

 are sometimes evident in the centre of the round whitish spots which 

 are to be seen about the periphery. Although so greatly reduced 

 they seem clearly homologous with the structures holding a similar 

 relation in the preceding species. 



The color ornamentation is described by Pilsbry as follows: 

 "(1) olive-green with some lighter spots, or purplish maculation, 

 or slight roseate suffusion, or (2) vivid red, with scattered blue 

 spots." With one exception my specimens are all of the latter type, 

 agreeing with one another further in that valve VI, and to a less 

 extent valves V and VII, are irregularly clouded with a pale greenish 

 hue. 



The nine specimens I have seen are doubtless all immature. 

 Length of largest 11 mm.; width 7 mm. 



Type: No. 71,902, A. N. S. P. 



Type locality: Monterey Bay, Cal. (H. Heath, 1897). 



Specimens examined: 



Thiele has suggested that Mopalia heathii may be a Ceratozona, 

 but although it is certainly suggestive of that genus in several ways, 

 I fail to see that it does not show equally significant approximation 

 to the group in which it was originally placed. The truth is that 

 the diagnosis of either genus, as previously recognized, would have 




492 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Aug., 



to be SO greatly amplified to admit of the reception of the forms 

 now before us that the erection of a new group would seem to be 

 at present the safest course. 



Literature. 



KeeP; Josiah. ('04.) West American Shells. San Francisco, 1904. 

 PiLSBRY, Heney a. ('92.) Monograph of the Polyplacophora. Man. Conch. 



(1), XIV, 1892. 

 ('98.) Chitons collected by Dr. Harold Heath at Pacific Grove, near 



Monterey, Cal. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1898, pp. 287-290. 

 Thible, Johann. ('10.) Revision des Systems der Chitonen. II. Teil. 



Zoologica, Heft 56, Bd. 22, pp. 71-126, Pis. VII-X, 1910. 



Explanation of Plate XL. 



Fig. 1. — Mopalia heaihii Pilsbry. Head valve, exterior. 

 Fig. 2. — " " " Third valve, exterior. 



Fig. 3.— " " " Tail valve, exterior. 



Fig. 4. — Mopalia thamnopora Berry. Head valve, exterior. 

 Fig. 5. — " " " Tail valve, exterior. 



"Fig. 6.— " " " Fifth valve, exterior. 



Fig. 7. — Mopalia heathii Pils. Sutural bristle. 

 Fig. 8. — Mopalin thamnopora Berry. Sutural bristle. 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 493 



NEW FRESH-WATER FISHES FROM WESTERN ECUADOR. 

 BY HENRY W. FOWLER. 



A small collection of fishes, secured in the affluents of the Chimbo 

 River near Bucay, in the Province of Guayas, Ecuador, in July of 

 1911, was recently submitted to me for study by Mr. S. N. Rhoads. 

 At present this collection is placed on deposit in the Academy. 

 As the region in question presents some interesting hydrographic 

 features, Mr. Rhoads kindly contributes the following notes, gathered 

 from his recent explorations in the country where he obtained the 

 collection. 



"The Rio Chimbo, joining the Rio Chanchan several miles below 

 Bucay, flows almost directly southward from its source in the western 

 foothills of Mount Chimborazo for a distance of about 50 miles. It 

 is more practically isolated in a faunal sense from the sources of all 

 the other river systems of Ecuador flowing into the Pacific than any 

 other watercourse of its size in that country. This is due to its 

 being hemmed in both east and west by the lofty parallel ranges of the 

 Main or Central Cordilleras and that of the Pacific system of moun- 

 tains which goes by the name of the Western Cordilleras. Until 

 it joins the Chanchan, its waters have no alternative but to con- 

 tinue their precipitous and turbulent course due south as in a mighty 

 trough, but there, having reached more level and less elevated 

 country, its course naturally deflects almost at right angles and 

 makes a short cut for the ocean via the mighty Guayas. The 

 Chimbo is characteristic of all those rivers of western Ecuador 

 which owe their origin, as well as their perpetuity during the dry 

 season, to the snow- and glacier-fed springs of the great peaks of the 

 Andean system which rise to an elevation of 15,000 to 20,000 feet 

 above sea level. The greater part of the lofty country drained by 

 these rivers is extremely precipitous, almost denuded of forest growth 

 and trampled by cattle. The soil is filled with boulders and pebbles, 

 and the rock- and mud-encumbered river channels are continually 

 changing base with every sudden rise of the water. Couple this 

 with a continuous gradient of the river bed of 5 to 15 and even 20 

 per cent, and one begins to understand why only one species of fish 

 can exist in these waters at elevations of over 3,000 feet. Even 

 below this there are very few species to be found in the main channel 

 until the upper edge of the lowland terraces appears, at about 1,000 

 feet above the sea, and even here the majority of the fish fauna 

 33 




494 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Sept., 



confines itself to the smaller creeks and rivulets of clear water which 

 are fed by the perennial springs of the densely wooded foothills and 

 jungles of the ' Tierra Caliente.' Such conditions necessarily 

 develop these tributary streams of the foothills into isolated fish 

 faunas of the most restricted local character, as it is practically 

 impossible for the majority of those fish which thrive here in such 

 great profusion to live in the turbid and rushing waters of the main 

 river, which, under more pacific conditions, would be a means of 

 intercourse rather than a barrier. For this reason we may expect 

 to find the most varied and puzzling faunal conditions in the ich- 

 thyology of the west Andean foothills when systematic collections have 

 been made. As yet there is a vast area of this character in Colombia 

 and Ecuador which has been almost untouched by the scientific 

 collector of fishes. All the fish described in this paper, with one or 

 two exceptions, were dynamited by railroad men in the larger pools 

 of clear-water streams flowing into the Chimbo River, about 2 miles 

 from Bucay. These streams are for the most part deeply shaded 

 by forests and enclosed by high and rocky banks, their sandy or 

 gravelly beds much strewn by boulders and in many places their quiet 

 reaches are broken by shallow rapids, as in our larger trout streams 

 of the Alleghany Mountains. Some of a larger species of Characid 

 than any here described, weighing about 2 to 2^ pounds, were secured 

 with the others, but considered by their captors too valuable as food 

 to be pickled in the interests of science! The flesh of these was 

 good, but the bones too omnipresent for comfort." 



OHARAOIDiE. 



PROCHILODINiE. 

 Froohilodus stigmaturus sp. nov. Fig. 1. 



Head 3f ; depth 3i; D. iii, 9; A. iii, 7; P. i, 13; V. i, 8; scales 

 in 1. 1. 38 to caudal base, and 3 more on latter; 9 scales above 1. 1. 

 to dorsal origin; 6 scales below 1. 1. to ventral origin; 6 scales below 

 1. 1. to anal origin; 17 predorsal scales; head width lyV its length; 

 head depth at occiput If ; snout 3 ; eye 4^ ; maxillary 4f ; mouth 

 width 4^; interorbital 2^; second branched dorsal ray ly; first 

 branched anal ray lyxr? least depth of caudal peduncle 2yV; lower 

 caudal lobe 1|; pectoral 1|; ventral If. 



Body elongate, compressed, contour fusiform, and deepest at 

 dorsal origin. Upper profile convex, bulging slightly more ante- 

 riorly, though back not elevated conspicuously. Lower profile 

 rather more evenly convex. Edges of body all evenly convex, 

 without keels. Caudal peduncle compressed, moderate, length 

 about I of least depth. 



Head small, compressed, sides flattened and not constricted above 

 or below, though both of latter surfaces evenly convex. Profiles 




1911.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



495 



similar, nearly straight. Snout broad, obtuse, convex both over 

 surface and in profile, produced well beyond mandible tip, and 

 length about | of basal width. Eye nearly circular, but little 

 elevated, and centre well before middle in head length. Eyelid 

 narrow. Mouth broad, and commissure short in profile, horizontal 

 largely. When opened, mouth quite broad, directed downwards, 

 and jaws rather firm and but moderately strong, apparently not 

 disk-like. Lips thin and scarcely developed, edge of upper rather 

 trenchant and lower rather broad. Edge of each lip with a row of 

 numerous minute papillae its whole extent, and apparently all sessile. 

 No inner series in either jaw. Mouth aperture small, as seen in 

 front with a medium notch in upper jaw into which symphysis 



Fig. 1. — Prochilodus stigmaturus Fowler. Type. 



of mandible fits. Also each ramus of mandible swollen a little on 

 its upper edge, this fitting in a corresponding concavity also in side 

 of upper jaw. Upper and lower buccal folds moderately broad in 

 mouth. Tongue small, fleshy, not free. Mandible short, and rami 

 well elevated inside mouth, articulated below hind nostril. Nostrils 

 moderate, close together, anterior circular and about midway in 

 snout, and posterior exposed in crescent close behind. Interorbital 

 space broadly convex. Preorbital about 1^ in eye. Infraorbital 

 narrow, about equals eye. Postorbital width If in eye. Pre- 

 orbital also a little swollen, with cavity below, into which maxillary 

 fits when closed, its hind edge then about opposite nasal frenum. 

 Opercle width about If its depth and smooth hke other bones of 

 head. Cutaneous opercular flap moderately broad behind. 




496 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Sept., 



Gill-opening extends forward about opposite hind edge of eye. 

 Rakers none. Filaments of inner series a little longer than those in 

 outer, or about equal to | of eye-diameter. Isthmus broad. Inner 

 upper portion of gill-opening with many small papillae. Branchi- 

 ostegals 4, strong, graduated slightly from innermost to outermost, 

 all straight and rather long. 



Scales large, of more or less even size, disposed in even longitudinal 

 series parallel with 1. 1., well exposed, and each one with as many as 

 a dozen rather irregular radiating striae in some cases, usually less. 

 Margin of each scale entire, evenly convex, not rough. Scales a 

 little small on breast. Caudal base with most of scales scarcely 

 smaller than elsewhere on body, other fins naked. Head naked. 

 Pointed scaly flap in ventral axil 2| in fin. Apparently no median 

 predorsal keel, though just traces of a faint one behind dorsal fin. 

 Though belly and chest rounded convexly, a very faint ridge or keel 

 extends from below lower pectoral base nearly to ventral axil. Post- 

 ventral and postanal regions entirely evenly convex. L. 1. complete, 

 begins at shoulder and nearly follows median axis to median caudal 

 base. Tubes simple, at first little exposed, and after ninth extending 

 at least half-way over scale exposures. 



Dorsal origin a little nearer snout tip than caudal base, fin moder- 

 ate, second branched ray longest, and when depressed reaches If to 

 adipose fin origin. Anal smaller than dorsal, margin of fin straight 

 its origin a little nearer caudal base than ventral origin, and depressed 

 fin 1| to caudal base. Adipose fin rather large, length about equals 

 snout, its base over bases of last anal rays. Caudal rather large, 

 rays broadly expanded, fin deeply emarginated, and lower lobe a 

 little shorter. Pectoral moderate, upper rays longest and fin 

 ly to ventral origin. Latter about opposite first branched dorsal 

 ray base, second and third branched rays longest, and fin If to anal 

 origin. Vent close in front of anal. 



Color in alcohol, when fresh, largely pale slaty above, sides and 

 below silvery-white. In some lights back with an olivaceous tint, 

 in others largely grayish. Median line of back largely with dusky 

 tinge. Head dusky to olivaceous or grayish above, sides with some 

 brassy tinges, and lower surface whitish. Snout largely brownish, 

 even to edge of upper lip. Mandible pale or whitish. Iris silvery- 

 white. Dorsal slaty-dusky, deeper towards edge of fin, immaculate. 

 Caudal paler than dorsal, but large blackish blotch on caudal pedun- 

 cle side at terminal portion of lateral line continued back over median 

 rays to their tips, though paler. Inner submarginal portions of 




1911.] NATUKAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 497 



caudal lobes very indistinctly mottled with pale gray spots, or 

 leaving incomplete short wavy lines of darker color somewhat trans- 

 versely over these portions of fin-rays. Adipose fin pale or dull 

 olive-brown. Pectoral and ventral pale brownish to whitish, former 

 with median upper portion a little grayish or darker. Anal pale 

 basally, though greater outer or distal portion quite dusky. 



Length 5| inches. 



Type, No. 1. Collection, S. N. Rhoads. Affluent of the Chimbo 

 River near Bucay, Province of Guayas, Ecuador. July, 1911. 



Only a single example of this species, described above, was obtained. 

 It differs from Prochilodus humeralis Giinther^ chiefly in coloration^ 

 that species being marked with a black shoulder spot on the fourth to 

 sixth scales of the lateral line and the dorsal with blackish dots pos- 

 teriorly, though the other fins and base of the caudal are immaculate. 



Other species from the eastern drainage of South America which 

 I have examined are, of course, entirely different in coloration, viz.: 

 P. steindachneri Fowler, P. ortonianus Cope, P. cephalotes Cope, 

 P. teraponura Fowler and P. amazonensis Fowler. 



{Iziyiia^ blotch; oupa^ tail; with reference to the dark caudal 

 blotch.) 



RHOADSIN^. 



Preventral region rounded, without keel. Dentition perfected. 

 Jaws peculiar, well back, and long mandible articulated below hind 

 edge of eye. Dorsal and anal rays elongated. Adipose fin present. 



I have framed this subfamily for the single aberrent genus described 

 below. It is remarkable for the constriction of the jaws, somewhat 

 suggestive of the salmonoid Plecoglossus. Its affinities are likely 

 near the Tetragonopterince. 



BHOADSIA gen. nov. 

 Type Rhoadsia altipinna sp. nov. 



Body deep, compressed. Belly rounded. Mouth cleft large, 

 deep. Front jaw teeth in adult largely uniserial, strong, compressed, 

 each with large pointed median denticle and two graduated smaller 

 denticles each side, of which outer or lower smaller. Sometimes 

 three or four external short conic teeth on upper lip in adult, absent 

 in young. In young anterior jaw teeth all broader, with more 

 uniform cutting-edge, as denticles all more on a line and median 

 denticle but slightly enlarged. Adult with a single series of conic 



^ Proc. Z. S. London, 1859, p. 419. Western 'Andes of Ecuador. 




498 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF . [Sept., 



maxillary and lateral mandibular teeth, absent in young. Maxillary 

 long and slender in adult, much shorter in young. Mandible articu- 

 lated well posteriorly, or below hind eye edge in adult, and in young 

 articulated a little anterior. Nostrils close together, separated by 

 valve only. Gill-opening wide, membranes free from isthmus and 

 largely separated. Rakers lanceolate. Scales all cycloid, well 

 exposed, parallel with 1. 1, above and below, though latter also 

 oblique. Anal with narrow scaly area basally, and scales on caudal 

 base not extending far out on fin. L. 1. incomplete, not extending 

 beyond dorsal base. Dorsal median, base short, and rays greatly 

 elevated. Anal begins after dorsal base, its own base long, and 

 front rays elevated. Caudal well forked. Pectoral almost reaches 

 ventral. Ventral inserted before dorsal, reaches anal. 



A single species, small fishes in the mountain streams of western 

 Ecuador. 



(Named for Mr. Samuel N. Rhoads, in slight recognition of his 

 ability as a naturalist and explorer.) 



Bhoadsia altipinna sp. nov. Fig. 2. 



Head 3f ; depth 2^; D. ii, 9; A. iv, 24; P. i, 12; V. i, 7; scales 

 in 1. 1. 38 to caudal base, of which 16 anteriorly with tubes; 4 scales 

 in horizontal series medianly on caudal base; 9 scales above 1. 1. 

 to dorsal origin; 11 scales below 1. 1. to ventral origin; 21 scales in 

 vertical series between anal origin and last dorsal ray base; 22 

 predorsal scales; head width 2 in its length; head depth at occiput 

 1^; snout 2f ; eye 4f ; maxillary 1|; mandible If; interorbital 2f ; 

 dorsal base 1| ; least depth of caudal peduncle 2f ; adipose fin length 

 3; fourth branched anal ray 1|; pectoral If; ventral 1^. 



Body deep, well compressed, form elongately ovoid, and lower 

 profile a little more evenly convex than upper. Owing to slope 

 down posteriorly of dorsal base upper profile appears a little more 

 bulging anteriorly as compared with lower profile. Greatest body 

 depth at dorsal origin. Predorsal region trenchant, and postdorsal 

 region narrowly convex. Behind adipose fin, just before and over 

 anterior rudimentary caudal rays edge becomes trenchant. Breast 

 and preventral region narrowly constricted, though with convex 

 edge. Postventral region narrowly constricted, though scarcely 

 trenchant. Postanal region similar, except edge becoming slightly 

 trenchant over anterior rudimentary rays. Caudal peduncle well 

 compressed, and its least depth about equals its length. 



Head moderate, well compressed, flattened sides slightly approxi- 

 mated below and upper and lower surfaces evenly convex. Profiles 




1911.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



499 



similarly inclined, but very slightly convex. Snout moderately 

 long, protruding slightly below closed mandible tip, length about 

 I its basal width, and surface evenly convex. Eye slightly ellipsoid, 

 its centre level with snout tip and a little before middle in head 

 length. Pupil slightly ellipsoid in vertical. Eyelid very narrow, 

 free, not adipose-like. Mouth pecuhar, large, and commissure very 

 deep, extending back not quite opposite front pupil edge, though 

 beyond front eye margin. Maxillary straight, of rather narrow 

 and uniform width, well inclined back till its tip opposite hind eye 



Fig. 2. — Rhoadsia altipinna Fowler. Type. 



edge, and most its whole length free from the corresponding straight 

 infraorbital edge. Mandible long, rami incised or emarginated 

 in front, giving a chisel-like appearance. Rami also attain their 

 greatest height anteriorly or opposite a corresponding notch in front 

 of maxillary, after which they are continued back to their articula- 

 tions of uniform height. A single series of compressed sharp teeth 

 form cutting edge in front of upper jaw, consisting of 6 teeth each 

 side. Each tooth with a median and slightly enlarged pointed cusp 

 followed by 2 smaller ones each side, latter usually subequal. Front 




500 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Sept., 



or incised portion of mandible with a series of somewhat similar 

 teeth,' about 5 each side, all rather broader than upper teeth and 

 contour of cutting-edge of each tooth less triangular. A single 

 series of large and erect conic canines along maxillary edge well down 

 near its distal extremity, and at first a little closer together. Straight 

 lateral mandibular edges with a single series of conic canines each 

 side, first few slope forward, after which they all incine well back, 

 most are also well curved. In both jaws the dentition is continuous 

 anteriorly, as the premaxillary and the maxillary, and the anterior 

 and posterior mandibular elements. Lips firm, upper with several 

 short conic denticles, and lower conceals lower lateral teeth. Tongue 

 thick, fleshy, rather narrow and not free. Snout tip extends a little 

 before mandible tip. Nostrils moderate, together, and frenum about 

 last third in snout. Interorbital well convex. Fontanel narrow, 

 extends back from opposite front eye edge to occipital crest. Pre- 

 orbital rim narrow, its width about half of eye. Greatest diameter 

 of postero-infraorbital width equals eye. Postorbital width 1* in 

 eye. Posterior edge of preopercle inclined a little behind, straight, 

 iand with a distinct and rather narrow triangular corner below. 

 Opercle narrow, its width about 2| in its depth. Preopercle surface, 

 postero-infraorbital and opercle with some rather coarse and incon- 

 spicuous striae. Cutaneous opercular flap moderately broad behind. 



Gill-opening extends forward opposite middle of eye. Rakers 

 8 + 14, rather slender, weak, pointed, and longest about half of 

 filaments. Latter about 1\ in eye. No pseudobranchise. Isthmus 

 rather broad. Branchiostegals strong, subequal, 4 in number. 



Scales moderately large, cycloid, well exposed, and largely of 

 uniform size. Radiating strise on scales all fine and obsolete. Edges 

 of scales all entire, convex. Scales a little small on breast and 

 anterior preventral region, also on caudal base. Along base of anal 

 anteriorly row of low scales. No axillary scaly pectoral flap, and 

 that of ventral about 5 in fin. Scales above and below 1. 1., and its 

 course in series parallel. Below this axis and posteriorly they 

 slope slightly obliquely to anal base. Fins except as mentioned 

 above, together with head, naked. L. 1. incomplete, extends but 

 little beyond dorsal origin, its short course nearly horizontal from 

 shoulder. Tubes simple, exposed until some extend over first half 

 of scale exposures. 



Dorsal origin about midway in vertical between snout tip and 

 caudal base, almost all rays elongated with slender tips so depressed 

 fin extends back to caudal base, though antero-median rays longest. 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 501 



Adipose fin moderate, inserted about midway between last dorsal 

 ray base and caudal base, fin 2j to latter. Anal inserted opposite 

 last dorsal ray base, anterior rays elongated and second branched 

 one longest, it extending about Ij to caudal base. Caudal deeply 

 forked, lobes rather slender, pointed, tips damaged and apparently 

 equal, fin also apparently a little longer than head length. Pectoral 

 rather small, upper rays longest, fin a little falcate, not quite reaching 

 ventral. Ventral origin slightly before dorsal, fin pointed, depressi- 

 ble back a little beyond anal origin. Vent midway between ventral 

 and anal origins. 



Color when fresh in alcohol largely pale umber-brown on back 

 and upper surface, edges of scales darker. Median dorsal line also 

 somewhat dusky. Sides and lower surface of body pale to whitish, 

 and all more or less overshot with dull silvery, pale lilac in some 

 lights. Upper surface of head brownish like back, sides and lower 

 surface pale. Opercle with silvery-white reflections, and a dull 

 indigo-black blotch level with eye on its upper portion. Snout 

 entirely brownish to edge of upper lip, and mandible decidedly 

 paler like whole of lower jaw. Iris silvery-white, with grayish tinge 

 above. Transversely on back 2 broad deeper brown bands than 

 body-color, first a little narrower and at first third in predorsal region, 

 second at second third of same. An indistinct or nebulous pale 

 brown blotch at beginning of 1. 1., followed by an indistinct pale 

 gilt area to another indistinct brownish blotch within limits of second 

 dark transverse band. Behind 1. 1., though on same level, opposite 

 anal origin a distinct large rounded spot of dusky or blackish, this a 

 little larger than eye. Along sides, following median axis, a streak 

 of underlaid and rather dull silvery, though posteriorly becoming 

 quite narrowed, or about f of eye-diameter. Dorsal pale or grayish 

 basally, becoming rather dusky on outer portions. Adipose fin 

 pale grayish, edge narrowly dusky. Anal largely pale grayish, a 

 little darker marginally, and only front edge of long anterior lobe 

 slightly dusky. Caudal largely grayish like other fins, hind edges a 

 trifle dusky. Pectoral pale brownish, distally a little darker brown. 

 Ventral grayish basally, distal end of longest rays dusky slate-color. 

 Peritoneum blackish. 



Length 5 inches (caudal tips damaged). 



Type, No. 2. Collection, S. N. Rhoads. Affluent of the Chimbo 

 River near Bucay, Province of Guayas, Ecuador. July, 1911. 



Also Nos. 3 to 6, paratypes, same data. Head 3| to 3f ; depth 

 2f to 2|; D. Ill, 9; A. usually iv, 27, sometimes iv, 25 or iv, 28; 




502 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Sept., 



scales in median lateral series 38 to caudal base, and 4 more on 

 latter, sometimes 3; 10 scales above I. 1. to dorsal origin; 8 or 9 

 scales below 1. 1. to ventral origin; usually 20 scales, sometimes 19, 

 between anal origin and last dorsal ray base; usually 20 predorsal 

 scales, sometimes 21; usually 17 1. 1. tubes, sometimes 15 or 16; 

 snout 2| to 3| in head; eye 2f to 4^; maxillary If to 2; interorbital 

 2f to 3; pectoral Ij to 1|; ventral 1| to 1|; length 2| to 4|| inches. 



Variation with age, as well as individually, is quite noticeable. 

 In the type the right upper teeth forming the cutting edge are all 

 more or less conic and with only obsolete cusps. The other examples 

 have them symmetrically developed, and in the young examples 

 all the cusps are all more on a uniform plane or line in both jaws. 

 Small examples also have no external conic denticles on the upper 

 lip. The smallest paratype also has no maxillary or lateral man- 

 dibular teeth, only the cuspidate anterior teeth being developed, and 

 all the simple conic teeth apparently only appearing with age. The 

 young also have a large eye, a much shorter maxillary, which only 

 reaches back about opposite front edge of pupil, the articulation of 

 the mandible before the hind pupil edge, predorsal scales much 

 smaller than the others, the depressed dorsal fin not reaching adipose 

 fin origin, and without traces of the dark predorsal bands. With 

 advancing age a few conic teeth appear on the maxillary and lateral 

 elevated portions of the mandibular rami, though only in the large 

 examples is this bone elongated and well toothed. 



The accompanying figure has the tail ends represented as restored, 

 and the cut illustrating the dentition shows the left upper teeth as 

 symmetrical. 



(Alius, high; pinna, fin; with reference to the elevated dorsal 

 of the adult.) 



TETRAGONOPTERIN^. 

 Bryoon scapularis sp. nov. Fig. 3. 



Head 3^; depth 3; D. iii, 9; A. iv, 25, i; P. i, 12; V. i, 7; 

 scales in I. 1. 51 to caudal base and 4 more on latter; 10 scales above 

 1. 1. to dorsal origin; 5 scales below 1. 1. to ventral origin; 6 scales 

 below 1. 1. to anal origin; 22 predorsal scales; head width 2^ in its 

 length; head depth at occiput 1^; snout 4; eye 3i; maxillary 2j; 

 nterorbital 3f; mandible 2|; first branched dorsal ray 1|; least 

 depth of caudal peduncle 3^; first branched anal ray 2|; pectoral 

 1^; ventral 1|. 



Body well compressed, contour rather evenly ellipsoid, greatest 

 depth at dorsal origin, edges all convexly rounded or with only 




1911.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



503 



slight median preventral ridge or keel. Postventral region rather 

 constricted. Caudal peduncle well compressed, its least depth 

 about li its length. 



Head well compressed, flattened sides slightly constricted below, 

 upper and lower surfaces rather evenly convex, profiles similarly 

 inclined and slightly convex anteriorly. Snout a little convex in 

 profile, surface well convex, length about f its basal width. Eye a 

 trifle ellipsoid, rather high, its centre about first third in head. 

 Eyelid narrow and thin. Pupil vertically ellipsoid. Maxillary well 

 inclined, extends till below front pupil edge, and distally expanded 

 till about 3^^ in eye. Jaws strong, firm, equal. Upper lip tough, 

 firm, moderate. Lower lip thick, free in front, and rather fleshy. 



Fig. 3. — Brycon scapularis Fowler. Type. 



Mouth moderate, commissure rather short, horizontal. Premaxillary 

 teeth triserial, mostly with an enlarged median denticle and a rather 

 obtuse small denticle or cusp each side basally, former much in 

 contrast with latter. Posterior premaxillary teeth similar, only 

 broader and a little larger. All premaxillary teeth rather thick, 

 with entire edges, surfaces convex, strong and firm. Maxillary 

 with a series of rather small close-set conic short teeth over about 

 first or upper | of its lower edge, these also all more or less concealed 

 by membrane over bone. Mandibular teeth imiserial, first 3 each 

 side of symphysis enlarged, largest of all teeth, and laterally on each 

 mandibular ramus those following quickly decreasing in size, and 

 some becoming minute, so that dentition does not extend more than 




504 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Sept., 



first f of mandible length. Mandibular teeth strong, thick-rooted, 

 surfaces convex, edges entire, each with an enlarged median -<;usp, 

 and one or two smaller basal cusps on each side, all of which sharp 

 and triangular. Two small conic canines close inside outer sym- 

 physeal teeth. No other teeth in mouth. Buccal membranes well 

 developed, upper especially broad. Tongue thick, fleshy, rather 

 depressed above and scarcely free in front. Mandible strong and 

 rami little elevated in mouth. Nostrils rather large, close together, 

 anterior simple pore and posterior exposed in crescent, close before 

 upper front eye edge or about last fourth in snout. Interorbital 

 broadly convex. Preorbital quite narrow and maxillary slipping 

 below its lower edge. Antero-infraorbital broadly triangular, small. 

 Postero-infraorbital large, its length equals snout and half of eye. 

 Postorbital small, its width If in eye. Opercle width 2| its depth. 

 Preopercular edge nearly vertical, but slightly inclined behind, and 

 its lower corner rounded. Bones of head all smooth, without striae. 

 Cutaneous edge of gill-opening moderately broad. 



Gill-opening "extends forward about opposite hind pupil edge. 

 Rakers about 9 + 13, lanceolate, slender, pointed, a little less than 

 longest filaments. Filaments about 1| in eye. No pseudobranchise. 

 Isthmus narrow, surface rather rounded, and membranes form 

 slight free fold anteriorly for short space. Branchiostegals 4, strong, 

 and subequal. 



Scales cycloid, all rather more or less narrowly imbricated, disposed 

 in series parallel with 1. 1., and becoming but a trifle smaller along 

 edges of body and breast. Many as 6 radiating strite visible on 

 scale exposure and usually well marked. Caudal base covered with 

 scales but little smaller than those on rest of body. Slight pit, 

 formed by membrane above, in pectoral axilla. Axillary ventral 

 scaly flap pointed, slender, free, about 3 in fin. Anal base with low 

 sheath of thin small scales. Scales passing over all body edges. 

 L. 1. complete, begins sloping down from shoulder in even curve 

 till about opposite ventral origin, where near lowest third in body 

 depth, and then gradually slopes up, low along caudal peduncle 

 side at first to middle of caudal base. Tubes all simple, short and 

 but little exposed. 



Dorsal origin about midway between hind nostril and caudal 

 base, first branched and third simple ray longest and subequal, 

 depressed back far as tips of any others, fin If to adipose fin origin. 

 Adipose fin moderate. If in eye, origin about midway between 

 depressed dorsal tip and caudal base, fin 2 to latter. Caudal 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 505 



(damaged) well forked, lobes apparently pointed and slender, also 

 likely equal ?, and fin about equal to head in length ?. Anal origin 

 about opposite last dorsal ray base, first branched ray longest, 

 though second and third branched and fourth simple subequal, with 

 anterior rays of fins thus much longer than others, and last fin ray 

 about half way to caudal base. Pectoral long, rather slender, upper 

 rays longest, and fin extends a little beyond ventral origin. Latter 

 inserted before dorsal, though nearer anal origin than pectoral, and 

 depressed fin reaching anal origin. Vent close before anal. 



Color in alcohol largely brownish or dull olivaceous, with lilac 

 tinge on back, sides and lower surface brilliant silvery-white. In 

 some lights body more or less reflected greenish or lilac. Head 

 above olivaceous-brown, color including upper lip and upper portion 

 of maxillary, sides and lower surface, silvery-white, mandible pale. 

 Iris silver-gray, varied, with narrow golden circle around pupil. 

 Inside gill-openings pale. A short, narrow and rather dull vertical 

 leaden streak opposite eye after and superior to third scale in 1. 1. 

 Caudal peduncle, at caudal base, with a large dusky blotch, equal 

 to the eye in extent, extending out on caudal base, and reflected 

 back to include median caudal rays as a dusky streak, though latter 

 a little paler than blotch. Dorsal grayish, membranes medianly 

 tinged with dusky. Caudal grayish, edges of fin all slightly dusky. 

 Other fins pale or whitish, membranes of anal grayish distally. 

 Peritoneum rather dusky. 



Length SfV inches (caudal tips damaged). 



Type, No, 7, Collection of S, N, Rhoads. Affluent of the Chimbo 

 River near Bucay, Province of Guayas, Ecuador, July, 1911. 



In the accompanying figure I have restored the caudal fin ends. 



This species differs from Brycon atrocaudatus (Kner)^ in the dark 

 humeral blotch. If, as Boulenger suggests,^ B. moorei Steindach- 

 ner* is identical with B. atrocaudatus (Kner), B. scapularis further 

 differs in the absence of an inner lateral mandibular series of simple 

 or conic teeth, Steindachner says of B. moorei that the dark 



^ Chalceus atrocaudatus Kner, Sitz. Ak. Miinch., II, 1863, p. 227. Western 

 Andes of Ecuador. 



Kner and Steindachner, Abh. Kon. Bayer. Ak. Wiss., X, 1870, p. 44, 



PI. 4, fig. 3 (type). 



' Brycon atricaudatus Boulenger, Boll. Mus. Z. Anat. Torino, XIII, No. 329, 

 1898, p. 3. Paramba, in Rio MLra. 



* Denks. Ak. Wiss. Wien, XXXIX, 1879, p. 58, PI. 5, figs. 2, 2a, 26. MagdaUna 

 River. 




5061 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Sept., 



humeral blotch is indistinct. B. scapularis differs also from all the 

 species mentioned in its vertically ellipsoid pupil. 



(Scapula, shoulder, referring to the shoulder-spot.) 

 Astyanax notemigonoides sp. nov. Fig. 4. 



Head 4; depth 2|; D. iii, 9; A. iv, 37, i; P. i, 13; V. i, 7; 

 scales 45 in 1. 1. to caudal base, and about 4 ? more on latter (squama- 

 tion slightly injured); 9 scales above 1. 1. to dorsal origin; 7 scales 

 below 1. 1. to ventral origin; 8 scales below 1. 1. to anal origin; 17 

 predorsal scales; head width 2 in its length; head depth at occiput 

 lyV; mandible 2|; first branched dorsal ray 1; first branched anal 

 ray 1^; least depth of caudal peduncle 2j; pectoral lyV; ventral 

 If; snout 4 in head measured from upper jaw tip; eye 3; maxillary 

 2f ; interorbital 3yo- 



Fig. 4. — Astyanax notemigonoides Fowler. Type. 



Body well compressed, lower profile deeper and more evenly 

 convex than upper, greatest depth at dorsal origin. Predorsal 

 region slightly trenchant with obsolete median keel. Postdorsal 

 region convexly rounded. Preventral region with slight median 

 keel, becomes obsolete and region flattened immediately before 

 ventral bases. Postventral slightly trenchant with median keel. 

 Postanal region convexly rounded. Caudal peduncle short, well 

 compressed, length abooit f least depth. 



Head moderate, well compressed, flattened sides becoming a little 

 constricted below, upper and lower surfaces convex, upper profile 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 507 



much less inclined than lower, at first convex and then a little con- 

 cave just before occiput. Lower profile slightly convex. Snout short, 

 convex over surface and in profile, its length about f basal width. 

 Eye large, circular, rather high, its centre about first f in head. 

 Pupil circular. Eyelid very narrow, thin. Mouth small, mod- 

 erately wide and commissure short and nearly horizontal. Upper 

 lip firm, tough, not free. Lower lip thick, free and rather broad. 

 Premaxillary teeth biserial, rather irregular, strong, broadly tri- 

 angular, somewhat compressed with each face convex, tricuspid, 

 with median cusp enlarged and lateral cusp each side basally quite 

 broad. Maxillary with 3 minute teeth on its lower edge anteriorly 

 inside upper jaw. Mandibular teeth with symphyseal pair largest, 

 others graduated back soon, so that dentition only extends over 

 anterior half of mandible. Anterior mandibular teeth tricuspid, 

 median cusp much largest, bases strong, surfaces convex and edges 

 entire. Only first 4 mandibular teeth each side at all large. No 

 other teeth in mouth. Buccal folds broad, especially upper. Tongue 

 thick, fleshy, rather oblong, rounded and not free in front. Maxil- 

 lary rather small, narrow or width about 4 in eye, inclined vertically, 

 and scarcely extends beyond eye front. Mandible strong, powerful, 

 protrudes in front slightly beyond upper jaw tip, rami but little 

 elevated in mouth, and articulation taking place below front edge 

 of eye. Nostrils together, close before upper front eye edge, anterior 

 simple round pore, and posterior exposed in crescent. Interorbital 

 space evenly convex. Preorbital narrow, width about equals 

 maxillary width, and maxillary slips below lower edge anteriorly. 

 Infraorbital quite large, length greater than eye, and covering most 

 of cheek. Postorbital rather narrow, width about 2j in eye. Opercle 

 narrow, width 2f in its depth. Hind preopercle edge nearly straight 

 and sloping a little forward. Cutaneous flap along opercular edge 

 rather broad. 



Gill-opening forward well before front pupil edge, though not 

 quite opposite front edge of eye. Rakers about 10 + 13, rather 

 weak, lanceolate, sharp-pointed, and longest about 1| in filaments. 

 Filaments about 2 in eye. No pseudobranchise. Gill-membranes 

 well separated, forming a short free fold over narrowly constricted 

 isthmus anteriorly. Branchiostegals 4, strong and nearly subequal. 



Scales moderate, rather narrowly imbricated, disposed in longi- 

 tudinal series parallel with 1. 1., sometimes each with as many as 12 

 radiating striae, and mostly of more or less uniform size. Along 

 edges of body and on base of caudal scales a little smaller than others. 




508 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Sept., 



A narrow area of small scales all along anal base, though best devel- 

 oped anteriorly. In other respects all fins, together with head, 

 naked. Squamation passing completely over all edges of body. 

 No axillary pectoral scaly flap, though that of ventral pointed, 

 narrow, free and about 2f in fin. L. 1. complete, moderately decurved 

 till a little below median axis of body and then continued up a little 

 low along sides of caudal peduncle to median caudal base. Tubes 

 simple, at first little exposed and at most not extending more than 

 half-way in exposures of scales. 



Dorsal origin about midway between snout tip and caudal base, 

 first branched ray longest, second branched and third simple rays 

 subequal, and depressed fin a trifle over half way to caudal base. 

 Adipose dorsal origin a trifle behind last third in space between 

 dorsal origin and caudal base, fin nearly half way to latter. Anal 

 base long, straight, origin about opposite seventh dorsal ray base, 

 first branched ray longest with fourth simple and second branched 

 rays subequal, so that slight elevated lobe forms anteriorly. Caudal 

 well forked, lobes slender, pointed, and lower much longer (upper 

 a little damaged) or about equals head length with | of eye-diameter. 

 Pectoral long, upper rays longest, fin reaches trifle beyond ventral 

 origin. Latter inserted a little before dorsal origin, though a little 

 nearer anal origin than that of pectoral, and depressed fin reaching 

 anal origin. Vent about last fifth in space between ventral and 

 anal origins. 



Color when fresh in alcohol largely pale olivaceous-brown on back, 

 with sides becoming pale or whitish, also below, and whole overshot 

 with bright silvery- white. A broad silvery-white band extends 

 from eye to caudal base, width about equal to eye-diameter, this 

 conspicuously contrasting coloration of back with that of lower 

 regions. No dark humeral blotch. At base of caudal and on 

 contiguous region of caudal peduncle dusky blotch, this extending 

 out on median caudal rays to edge of fin, though area on latter paler 

 and variegated with deeper marblings. Head brownish-olive above, 

 color including all of upper lip, also lower lip. Head sides and below, 

 also iris, bright silver-white. Dorsal grayish basally, becoming pale 

 olivaceous distally. Anal similar, only largely tinged with pale 

 dusky on outer portions. Caudal grayish basally, edges of fin 

 slightly deeper. Pectoral and ventral pale grayish, distally slightly 

 deeper in color. Peritoneum dusky to blackish. 



Length 3| inches. 



Type, No. 8. Collection of S. N. Rhoads. Affluent of the Chimbo 

 River, near Bucay, Province of Guayas, Ecuador. July, 1911. 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 509 



Also Nos. 9 to 16, paratypes, same data. Head 3| to 4; depth 

 2| to 3f ; D. Ill, 9; A. usually iv, 35, frequently iv, 32, or iv, 37, 

 sometimes iv, 39; scales in 1. 1. usually 44 to 46, sometimes 43 or 

 47 4- 3 or 4 more on caudal base; usually 9 scales above I. I. to 

 dorsal origin, seldom 8; 7 scales below 1. 1. to ventral origin; usually 

 9 scales below I. 1. to anal origin, seldom 8 or 10; predorsal scales 

 18 to 20 usually, sometimes 17 or 21 ; snout 4 to 4| in head measured 

 from upper jaw tip; eye 2y to 3; maxillary 2f to 3; mandible 2^ 

 to 2|; interorbital 3 to 3^; pectoral lyV to 1^; ventral If to If; 

 length 2yV to 3f inches. 



Young examples do not differ much from the adults in appearance, 

 showing the same general coloration, though perhaps more silvery- 

 white. They are also more elongate or slender, with a larger eye, 

 and with very minute or obsolete maxillary teeth. 



This species appears to be related to Astyanax festcB (Boulenger)^ 

 but differs in several respects. A. festce has: Head 4 to 4^, depth 

 2^ to 3, eye twice length of snout or 2^ to 2f in head, maxillary 

 toothless, pectoral longer than head, and 2 blackish spots at front 

 of I. 1. 



(tVojTog^ back; ^/^f, half; yojvia, angle; £V5«9, appearance; with refer- 

 ence to the superficial resemblance to Notemigonus, the roach or 

 bream of the eastern United States.) 

 Astyanax scierus sp. nov. Fig. 5. 



Head 3|; depth 2f ; D. iii, 9; A. v, 29, i; P. i, 11; V. i, 7; 

 scales 37 in 1. 1, to caudal base and 4 ? more on latter; 8 scales above 

 1. 1. to dorsal origin; 6 scales below 1. 1. to ventral origin; 8 scales 

 below I. 1. to anal origin; 15 predorsal scales; head width ly^^ its 

 length; head depth at occiput lj\; snout 3|; eye 31; mandible 

 2f; maxillary 2f; interorbital 2f; first branched dorsal ray 1|; 

 first branched anal ray 2; least depth of caudal peduncle 2^; lower 

 caudal lobe 1; pectoral 1^; ventral 2yV. 



Body elongately ovoid, well compressed, greatest depth at dorsal 

 origin, and profiles nearly alike. Predorsal edge rounded convexly, 

 also postdorsal. Pre ventral and postanal regions convex, post- 

 ventral trenchant, though without distinct keel. Caudal peduncle 

 well compressed, about long as least depth. 



Head moderate, well compressed, nearly flattened sides very 

 slightly constricted below, upper and lower surfaces convex, profiles 



^ Tetragonopterus festce Boulenger, Boll. Mus. Z. Anat. Comp. Torino, XIII, 

 No. 329, 1898, p. 2. Rio Vinces, Ecuador. 

 34 




510 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Sept., 



similarly inclined and both a little convex. Snout short, convex 

 over surface and in profile, length about f its basal width. Eye 

 circular, a little elevated, and its centre about first f in head. Eye- 

 lids narrow, thin. Pupil circular. Maxillary vertically inclined, 

 narrow, with greatest expansion about 3| in eye, extends back a 

 little behind front eye edge, though not to front pupil edge. Upper 

 lip firm, tough, lower thick, fleshy and free in front. Mouth rather 

 small, short, commissure nearly horizontal, and powerful jaws with 

 lower not protruding when closed. Premaxillary teeth biserial, 

 anterior a little smaller and tricuspid, and posterior quincuspid 

 and broad. All premaxillary teeth with convex surfaces, median 



Fig. 5. — Astyanax scierus Fowler. Type. 



cusp much largest, and edges of all denticles entire. Two small 

 teeth on lower edge of each maxillary inside mouth. Mandibular 

 teeth uniserial, symphyseal pair enlarged, quincuspid, others, of 

 which 3 follow graduated slightly back on each ramus, similar. 

 Mandibular dentition extends about half way on each ramus. No 

 other teeth. Upper and lower buccal folds broad, especially former. 

 Tongue a little long, depressed, rounded and not free in front. Man- 

 dible strong, convex over surface, and rami moderately elevated 

 inside mouth. Nostrils together, close before upper front edge of 

 eye, anterior simple pore and posterior exposed in crescent. Inter- 

 orbital evenly convex. Preorbital narrow, similar to maxillary, 

 and latter mostly slipping below its lower edge. Infraorbital 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 511 



covering most of cheek, larger than eye. Postorbital small, its 

 width about 2 in eye. Opercle width about 2f in its depth. Hind 

 preopercle edge nearly straight, inclined slightly posteriorly. Oc- 

 cipital fontanel rather broad. Head bones all smooth. Opercle 

 membrane over gill-opening rather broad. 



Gill-opening forward about opposite front eye edge. Rakers 

 8 + 9, lanceolate, compressed, pointed, longest about f of filaments. 

 Latter If in eye. No pseudobranchise. Gill-membranes largely 

 separate, only forming short fold anteriorly over narrow and rather 

 convex isthmus. Branchiostegals 4, strong, subequal. 



Scales moderate, well exposed, in longitudinal series parallel 

 with 1. 1., sometimes with many as 18 radiating striae, edges entire 

 and convex. Scales mostly a trifle smaller along edges of body, 

 especially supra-anal region. Caudal base scaly, though scales a 

 little smaller than on body. Base of anal with a row of moderately 

 small scales. Other fins, together with head, naked. No scaly 

 axillary pectoral flap, though that of ventral free, elongate, pointed, 

 and about f length of fin. Scales passing completely over all body 

 edges, except apparently postanal region, though on latter no median 

 naked strip. L. 1. complete, decurved a little below median axis 

 of body and extending a little low along caudal peduncle side up to 

 median caudal base. Tubes simple, at first little exposed, but 

 gradually extend till nearly over first half of scale exposures. 



Dorsal origin about midway between snout tip and caudal base, 

 first branched ray longest with second branched and third simple 

 rays subequal, these all reaching about far back as tips of last rays, 

 and depressed fin nearly half way to caudal base. Adipose fin 

 inserted trifle nearer depressed dorsal tip than caudal base, fin 

 half way to latter. Anal inserted below sixth branched dorsal ray 

 base, first branched ray longest with second branched and fourth 

 simple rays subequal, thus forming slightly elevated anterior lobe. 

 Caudal well forked, lobes pointed and lower (slightly damaged) 

 evidently a little longer. Pectoral with upper rays longest, reaches 

 trifle beyond ventral origin. Latter inserted well before dorsal 

 or a trifle nearer anal than pectoral origin and fin 1| to anal. Vent 

 about last fourth in space between ventral and anal origins. 



Color when fresh in alcohol rather dark olivaceous-brown above, 

 paler to dull whitish below. All upper surface of body with dark or 

 swarthy appearance, being dusted with minute dusky or blackish 

 dots broadly over edges of scales, this also extending well down 

 over sides or till opposite bases of pectorals. Almost all of body 




•512 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Sept., 



overshot with dull silvery reflections. Head dark olivaceous-brown 

 like back, this color including all of upper lip and snout. Maxillary 

 and mandible rather grayish. Sides of head and below whitish, 

 former silvery and opercle with some golden reflections. Almost 

 all of side of head with minute brownish dots, which a little enlarged 

 and quite distinct on postorbital. Iris grayish-dusky, with silvery 

 reflections. On side of body a broad underlaid plumbeous streak, 

 ill defined and less in width than eye-diameter, extends from shoulder 

 to caudal base. In third to fifth scales of its course a nebulous 

 dusky blotch a little less than eye, and followed by a similar one 

 at eighth and ninth scales. At end of plumbeous band a large 

 dusky to blackish blotch, and this reflected out on median caudal 

 rays to their tips. Dorsal dark gray. Caudal lobes grayish basally, 

 becoming brownish distally. Paired fins and anal grajdsh, latter 

 with membranes dull dusky on outer portions. Pectoral and ventral 

 also slightly darker on outer portions. Adipose fin brownish. 

 Inside gill-opening with some minute dusky dots, otherwise pale. 

 Peritoneum silvery below. 



Length Syi inches. 



Type, No. 17. Collection of S. N. Rhoads. Affluent of the Chimbo 

 River, near Bucay, Province of Guayas, Ecuador. July, 1911. 



Also Nos. 18 to 30, paratypes, same data. Head 3f to 3| ; depth 

 2f to 3^; D. Ill, 9; A. usually iv, 27, i, frequently iv, 25, i, iv, 26, i, 

 IV, 28, I, or IV, 29, i; scales in 1. 1. usually 35, frequently 36 or 

 37, sometimes 38, seldom 34 + usually 4, sometimes 3; usually 

 7 scales above 1. 1. to dorsal origin, frequently 8; 6 scales below 1. 1. 

 to ventral origin; usually 7 scales below 1. 1. to anal origin, frequently 

 8, seldom 6; usually 15 predorsal scales, often 16 or 17; snout 3f 

 to 4 J in head measured from upper jaw tip; eye 2f to 3^; maxillary 

 2| to 2f ; mandible 2 is to 2f ; interorbital 2\ to 3; pectoral IJ to 

 I|; ventral If to 2; length If to 3| inches. Small examples are 

 usually more elongate, paler or more silvery, and have the mandible 

 slightly protruding. They show the maxillary teeth, however. 



This species appears related to Astyanax simus (Boulenger),' 

 a species originally confused with A. mexicanus (Philippi), as Tetra- 

 gonopterus petenensis, by Giinther. It differs in the size of head 

 and depth of the body. Boulenger gives the former as 3f to 4 and 

 the latter as 3 to 3|. If this refers to the total length, my examples 



• Tetragonopterus simus Boulenger, Boll. Mus. Z. Anal. Corny. Torino, XIII, 

 No. 329, 1898, p. 2. Valley of Chota, north of Ecuador. 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 513 



show the head 4^ to 4| and the depth as 3^ to 3f . Further, A. simus 

 is said to be without a humeral blotch, while A. scierus has two. 

 A. simus is about 3y6" inches in length. In any case the account of 

 A. simus is not in agreement with my material representing the 

 present species. 



(Zxse/jo?, dusky.) 



PIABUCININiE. 

 Piabacina aureoguttata sp. nov. Fig. 6. 



Head 4; depth 4; D. ii, 8; A. iii, 8, i; P. i, 14; V. i, 7; 25 

 scales in a lateral series from shoulder to caudal base, and 4 more 

 on latter; 8 scales between dorsal and ventral origins transversely; 

 14 predorsal scales; head width If its length; head depth at occiput 

 1|; mandible 2^; first branched dorsal ray 2; first branched anal 

 ray 2j\; least depth of caudal peduncle 2f ; upper caudal lobe IxV; 

 pectoral If; ventral 2; snout 4 in head measured from upper jaw 

 tip; eye 6; maxillary 2|; interorbital 2f. 



Fig. 6. — Piabtudna aureoguttata Fowler. Type. 



Body elongate, compressed, rather heavy forward, profiles similar 

 so contour rather fusiform, greatest depth about ventral origin, 

 and edges all broadly convex. Caudal peduncle well compressed, 

 least depth about 1| its length. 



Head moderate, profiles slightly convex, surfaces convex above 

 and below, broad, and sides slightly convex. Snout convex over 

 surface and in profile, broad, short, length about If its basal width. 

 Eye small, rounded, but little elevated, and in profile centre about 

 first third in head. Eyelid free, narrow. Pupil large, circular. 

 Maxillary nearly vertical, extends back about opposite front pupil 

 margin, its upper edge slips well below preorbital, bone notched 




514 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Sept.^ 



above, and greatest distal width about f of eye. Upper lip thin, 

 tough, tight. Lower lip similar, only a little more fleshy on each 

 side of mandible. Teeth in jaws rather small, strong, tricuspid, 

 slightly compressed with median cusp greatly enlarged and pointed, 

 edges of teeth otherwise entire, and all uniserial. At base of each 

 maxillary a series of 4 small teeth, continuous with others in upper 

 jaw, and otherwise similar. No other teeth. Upper and lower 

 buccal folds rather broad, well developed. Tongue broad, fleshy, 

 depressed, front edge free and convex as seen from above, surface 

 finely papillose. Mandible strong, rami low, surface convex and 

 anteriorly well protruding in front beyond snout tip. Nostrils 

 together, anterior in a short cutaneous tube, forming behind into 

 a rather broad flap, and posterior a bean-shaped aperture close 

 behind. Interorbital broadly convex. Broad suborbital chain 

 completely covering cheek. Preorbital narrowest of suborbital 

 chain, and narrowest portion about half of eye. Postero-infraorbital 

 largest, its length about twice eye-diameter. Lower postorbital 

 larger than upper. Hind preopercle edge nearly straight and inclined 

 a little behind. Opercle width about If its length. Hind cutaneous 

 edge of gill-opening broad. 



Gill-opening forward about opposite hind pupil edge. Rakers 

 8 + 12, rather slender, elongate, lanceolate, tips pointed, about 

 f of filaments. Latter 1| in eye. No pseudobranchise. Isthmus 

 broadly convex, membranes forming narrow free fold anteriorly. 

 Branchiostegals 4, subequal, strong. 



Scales large, firm, well exposed, free edges convex, cycloid, with 

 about 10 more or less reticulated radiating striae over exposures, 

 and all distributed in nearly even longitudinal series. Scales along 

 edges of body but little smaller than others. Body scales extend 

 out on anal base, where not much smaller than others and form a 

 sheath into which anal fin depresses. Caudal largely scaly basally, 

 scales at base but little smaller than others on side of body, though 

 becoming quite small out on lobes of fin sub-basally. Pectoral with 

 rather deep axillary depression. Ventral axilla with short and free 

 pointed scaly flap a little less than 3 in fin. Fins otherwise, and 

 head, naked. L. 1. evident only as first 3 tubes in course from 

 shoulder. Tubes simple, small and extend over first third in scale 

 exposures. 



Dorsal origin about midway between caudal base and hind eye 

 edge, first and second branched rays subequal and longest, depressed 

 fin half way to adipose fin origin. Adipose fin small, inserted a 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 515 



little before last fourth in space between dorsal origin and caudal 

 base, fin less than half way to latter. Anal inserted behind depressed 

 dorsal tip, first to third branched rays subequally longest, fin If to 

 caudal base, lower edge rounded. Caudal broad, slightly emargi- 

 nated, upper lobe a little longer than lower. Pectoral broad, rounded, 

 ly^o^ to ventral, and upper rays longest. Ventral inserted a little 

 before dorsal origin, fin If to anal origin. Vent close before anal. 



Color in alcohol rich umber-brown on back, becoming paler on 

 sides below and lower regions, where largely whitish. From occiput 

 along each side of back to end of upper surface of caudal peduncle 

 a broad dusky to blackish band, this well separated from an inferior 

 lower similar band. This latter narrow, rather ill-defined, extends 

 back from eye across opercle along middle of side and becomes more 

 or less obsolete after anal. It seems to be obscurely broken up into 

 a number of blackish blotches, of which one above anal base and 

 another below adipose fin most distinct. A narrow dusky-black 

 vertical bar at caudal base. Almost all of scales along side below 

 with a gilt or golden blotch at inner basal region, and these fading 

 out after being in alcohol some time. Head brownish above, sides 

 paler, with lower surface whitish. Lips both deep brown, maxillary 

 but little paler. Tongue largely pale, front edge dusky. Inside 

 gill-opening pale. Iris brownish. Dorsal grayish. Caudal pale 

 olivaceous-brown. Other fins all pale or whitish. Peritoneum 

 silvery-white. 



Length &y\ inches. 



Type, No. 31. Collection S. N. Rhoads. Afiluent of the Chimbo 

 River, near Bucay, Province of Guayas, Ecuador. July, 1911. 



This species differs from Piabucina astrigata Regan, and in fact 

 all the others in the genus by its coloration. 



(Aureus, golden; gutta, spot; with reference to the coloration.) 



CICHLID^. 

 ^quidens azarifer sp. nov. Fig. 7. 



Head 2f ; depth 2^; D. XIV, 11; A. Ill, 9, i; P. i, 13; V. I, 5; 

 scales 16 in upper branch of 1. 1., 9 in lower branch; 4 scales between 

 spinous dorsal origin and 1. 1,; 2 scales between rayed dorsal origin 

 and 1. 1.; 6 scales obliquely back from anal origin to beginning of 

 lower branch of 1. 1.; 9 predorsal scales; head width If its length; 

 head depth at occiput 1; snout 2f; eye 5|; maxillary 3tV; inter- 

 orbital 24; mandible 2f ; fourth dorsal spine 3|; tenth dorsal spine 

 3; fourteenth dorsal spine 2|; sixth branched dorsal ray 1^; third 




516 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Sept., 



anal spine 2f ; fifth branched anal ray ly; least depth of caudal 

 peduncle 2j; caudal lyV; pectoral lyVl ventral 1^. 



Body oblong, well compressed, deep, rather robust, back well 

 elevated with upper profile bulging somewhat anteriorly, lower 

 profile rather evenly and shallowly convex and greatest depth about 

 opposite depressed ventral spine tip. Body edges all rounded con- 

 vexly. Caudal peduncle well compressed, length about f in least 

 depth. 



Head large, compressed, upper profile steeply inclined, slightly 

 concave before eye, and lower profile little inclined. Sides of head 

 slightly convex, becoming a little more approximated above than 



Fig. 7. — ^guldens azurifer Fowler. Type. 



below. Snout large, profile slightly convex, surface well convex, 

 and basal width at front of eyes equals its length. Eye circular, 

 rather well elevated, close to front profile, and a little anterior in 

 head length. Eyelid free, narrow. Pupil circular. Mouth wide, 

 small, commissure slightly inclined. Muzzle rather prominent, 

 somewhat protruding, and jaws equal. Premaxillary quite pro- 

 tractile. Maxillary narrow, extends about half way in snout length, 

 and concealed by preorbital. Lips thick, fleshy, tough, not free, 

 at corners of mouth somewhat conspicuous. An outer series of 

 enlarged conic teeth in each jaw, followed by a broad inner band 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 517 



of villiform teeth. Apparently no other teeth. Upper and lower 

 buccal folds present, upper well developed. Tongue thick, fleshy, 

 end thickened conic tip, not free. Mandible shallow, rami low, 

 and surface convex. Nostrils small, anterior larger, a trifle nearer 

 eye than upper jaw end, and posterior inconspicuous opposite front 

 eye edge medianly. Interorbital convex. Hind preopercle edge 

 straight, nearly vertical or but slightly inclined forward. Membrane 

 along hind edge of gill-opening narrow. 



Gill-opening extends forward about midway in head. Rakers 

 3 + 8, short, weak, rather fleshy and rather conic, about 3 in fila- 

 ments. Latter 1^ in eye. No pseudobranchise. Isthmus broadly 

 convex, membrane forming rather broad free fold across. Branchi- 

 ostegals 5, rather long, narrow. 



•Scales rather large, well exposed, finely ctenoid, in longitudinal 

 series, and a little smaller on breast than elsewhere on trunk. Fins 

 scaleless, except caudal base, and that covered with numerous 

 small scales. Head largely naked, except 3 series of scales on cheek, 

 3 rows on opercular region, and occipital region. No pointed axillary 

 scaly flaps. On mandible below 4 pores on each ramus, and along 

 each preopercular edge 4 more large pores. L. 1. interrupted below 

 front of soft dorsal, begins at shoulder and curves up till a little 

 above eye, after which nearly straight. Lower portion of I. 1. begins 

 opposite end of upper, well below eye, straight or horizontal, and 

 extends out on caudal base. Tubes simple, well exposed, in some 

 cases nearly or quite to edges of scales. 



Spinous dorsal inserted nearer snout tip in vertical than rayed 

 dorsal origin, spines graduated up to fourth after which subequal to 

 tenth, and then last graduated still a trifle longer. Edge of spinous 

 dorsal deeply notched, tip of each spine with a well-developed 

 cutaneous flap. Rayed dorsal with postero-median rays longest, 

 forming an elongated point to fin, begins before end of upper I. L 

 or beginning of lower 1. 1., and edge entire. Anal with spinous 

 origin about opposite twelfth dorsal spine base, spines graduated 

 up to last, which longest, membranes notched, and tip of each spine 

 with a well-developed free cutaneous flap. Rayed anal like rayed 

 dorsal, and origin of fin about opposite that of rayed dorsal, with 

 postero-median rays longest, and edge entire. Caudal with hind 

 margin convex, median rays longest. Pectoral large, long, fin 

 reaches opposite second anal spine base, superior rays longest. 

 Ventral origin a little behind that of pectoral, fin pointed, reaches 

 anal origin, spine strong and about 2 in fin. Vent close before anal. 




518 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Sept., 



Color in alcohol largely olivaceous-brown on back, becoming 

 paler below and on sides. On lower surface color pale gray-brown, 

 much paler on lower surface of head, and on breast about gill-opening. 

 Along each series of scales on back at upper and lower junctions of 

 scales longitudinal or horizontal dark lines. These latter at first 

 dusky or deep slaty-brown, but as they follow below upper 1. 1. 

 become pale blue, so that over greater or lower half of trunk they 

 have this tint. Along middle of side opposite hind end of depressed 

 pectoral, just below and partly on upper 1. 1. a large slaty-black 

 blotch, but it also perforated by regular slaty longitudinal streaks, 

 giving an underlaid appearance. This dark slaty-black blotch 

 formed only as broad dark edges to scales involved, and even oliva- 

 ceous streaks also showing in the interstices. Along costal region, 

 and that above spinous anal, pale blue streaks become connected 

 at bases of scales and thus expose olivaceous ground-color as rounded 

 .spots, one on each scale. These pale blue streaks extend completely 

 along caudal peduncle side to base of caudal. Head olivaceous- 

 brown above, like back, becoming paler below. Lips brownish, 

 cheek and opercular region Avith pale gray spot. Two deep blue 

 narrow lines extend down from lower edge of eye to lower preorbital 

 edge, and an upper parallel and similar extends towards snout tip 

 till just below front nostril. Iris slaty. Inside gill-opening pale. 

 Spinous dorsal and rayed dorsal dull olive-dusky, with indistinctly 

 defined oblique streaks more or less longitudinally, also somewhat 

 reticulated in places, with grayish. Upper edge of rayed dorsal 

 narrowly, and cutaneous tips to dorsal spines dull ochraceous. 

 ■Caudal dull olivaceous-brown, clouded indistinctly with dusky as 

 several irregular darker transverse streaks. Edge of caudal behind 

 narrowly dull ochraceous. Anal dull olivaceous, with grayish tinge 

 basally and dull dusky distally, edge becoming narrowly slaty. 

 Bases of rayed vertical fins, together with bases of last dorsal and 

 .anal spines with dull or pale bluish tinge. A short vertical dusky 

 or slaty bar at caudal base. Pectoral and ventral pale brownish- 

 gray, both pale basally, former more brownish distally and latter 

 becoming dusky distally along first and second branched rays. 



Length 5j inches. 



Type, No. 32. Collection, S. N. Rhoads. Affluent of the Chimbo 

 River, near Bucay, Province of Guayas, Ecuador. July, 1911. 



Also Nos. 33 to 35, paratypes, same data. Head 2f to 2y^^; depth 

 2| to 2f ; D. usually XIV spines, sometimes XIII, rays usually 11, 

 sometimes 10; A. spines III, rays usually 9, sometimes 8; scales in 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 519 



upper branch of 1. 1. usually 16, sometimes 17; scales in lower branch 

 of 1. 1. 7 to 10 to caudal base, and 2 more on latter (with tubes); 

 4 scales above upper branch of 1. 1. to spinous dorsal origin; 5 scales 

 below lower branch of 1. 1. to spinous anal origin; usually 9 predorsal 

 scales, sometimes 8; left gill-rakers 2 + usually 9, sometimes 10; 

 right gill-rakers usually 2, sometimes 3 + usually 9, sometimes 10; 

 snout 2 to 3 in head; eye 3y to 4^ ; maxillary 3f to 4; interorbital 

 2f to 3; length 2§ to 4^ inches. Some variation is noticed in these 

 examples, but mostly in the smallest. Though it also has the colora- 

 tion with the six broad dark transverse bands distinct, these are 

 not very evident in the type. In all, the fourth to tenth dorsal 

 spines are more or less equal, and not regularly graduated from the 

 anterior to the last. 



This species is close to Mquidens rivulatus (Giinther), but differs 

 in several respects when examples of similar size are compared. 

 According to Regan,^ ^. rivulatus has the head 3 ; eye 3f to 4, inter- 

 orbital 3 to 3 J, 7 or 8 rakers on lower part of gill-arch, dorsal spines 

 increasing in length to last, longest dorsal rays extend back to middle 

 or beyond in caudal length, caudal peduncle long or nearly long as 

 deep, a blackish vertical stripe below eye, 3 blue lines from eye to 

 maxillary, etc. 



{Azureus, blue; fero, to bear; with reference to the pale bluish 

 in the coloration.) 



Faunal Works. 



GtJNTHER, Albert. 1859. List of the Cold-blooded Vertebrata collected by 

 Mr. Fraser in the Andes of Western Ecuador. Proc. Zool. Soc. London, 

 1859, pp. 89-93. 



Second List of Cold-blooded Vertebrata collected by Mr. Fraser in the 



Andes of Western Ecuador. L. c, pp. (402-420) pisces 418-420. 



1860. Third List of Cold-blooded Vertebrata collected' by Mr. Fraser 



in Ecuador. L. c, 1860, pp. 233-240, PI. 10. 



Cope, E. D. 1870. Contribution to the Ichthyology of the Maranon. Proc. 

 Amer. Philos. Sac, XI, 1870, pp. 559-570, with 9 cuts. 



1872. On the Fishes of the Ambyiacu River. Proc. Acad. Nat. Set. Phila., 



1871 (1872), pp. 250-292, Pis. 3-16. 



Gill, T. 1870. On some New Species of Fishes obtained by Prof. Orton from 

 the Maranon or Upper Amazon and Napo Rivers. Piroc. Acad. Nat. Sci. 

 Phila., 1870, pp. 92-96. 



Steindachner, F. 1880. Zur Fisch-Fauna des Cauca und der Fliisse bei 

 Guayaquil. Denk. Ak. Wiss. Wien., XLII, 1880, pp. 55-104, Pis. 1-9. 



Thominot, a. 1887. Sur un Saccodon d'espfece nouveUe venant de I'Equateur. 

 Bull. Soc. Philomath., (7) VI, 1882, pp. 248-251. 



Boulenger, G. a. 1887. An Account of the Fishes collected by Mr. C. Buck- 

 ley in Eastern Ecuador. Proc. Zool. Soc. London, 1887, pp. 274-283, 

 Pk. 20-24. 



''Accra rivulaia Regan, Ann. Mag. Nat. Hist., (7) XV, 1905, p. 338 (type). 

 Rio Peripa, W. Ecuador. 




520 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Sept., 



1898. Viaggio del Dr. Enrico Festa nell 'Ecuador e regioni vicine. 



Poissons de I'Equateur. Premiere Partie. Boll. Mus. Zool. Anal. Torino, 



XIII, No. 329, 1898, pp. 1-13. 



1899. Description of a new Genus of Gobioid Fishes from the Andes of 



Ecuador. Ann. Mag. Nat. Hist., (7) IV, 1899, pp. 125-126. 



1899. Viaggio del Dr. Enrico Festa nell 'Ecuador e regioni vicine. 



Poissons de I'Equateur. Deuxi6me Partie. Boll. Mus. Zool. Anal. Torino,. 



XIV, No. 335, 1899, pp. 1-8. 



EvERMANN, B. W., and Kendall, W. C. 1905. An interesting species of Fish 



from the High Andes of Central Ecuador. Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., XVIII, 



1905, pp. 91-106, 2 figs. 

 Starks, E. C. 1906. On a collection of Fishes made by P. O. Simons in Ecuador 



and Peru. Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XXX, 1906, pp. 761-800, figs. 1-10, 



Pis. 60-66. 




h 



1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 521 



October 3. 

 Mr. Charles Morris in the Chair. 



Seventeen persons present. 



The Secretaries, the Curators, and the Librarian reported on the 

 work of the summer. 



The PubUcation Committee reported that papers under the 

 following titles had been considered for publication since the meeting 

 held May 16: 



"Some Fishes from Venezuela," by Henry W. Fowler (May 20). 



"The Lyriform Organs and Tactile Hairs of Araneads," by Norman 

 Eugene McAdoo (May 25). 



"Some Arachnida from North Carolina," by Nathan Banks 

 (June 14). 



"Observations on Sarcocystis rileyi (Stiles)," by Howard Crawley 

 (July 7). 



"Notes on the Anatomy and Classification of the Genera Omphalia 

 and Mesomphix," by Henry A. Pilsbry (July 24). 



"A new California Chiton," by S. S. Berry (August 1). 



"New Freshwater Fishes from Western Ecuador," by Henry W. 

 Fowler (September 22). 



"A new East Indian Euciroa," by Henry A. Pilsbry (September 28). 



The deaths of Mrs. Gulielma M. S. P. Jones, a member, February, 

 1910, and of Francis William Rawle, a member, June 12, 1911, 

 were announced. 



The deaths of the following Correspondents were also announced : 



Thomas Rupert Jones, April 13, 1911. 

 Charles M. Scammon, May 2, 1911. 

 Samuel H. Scudder, May 17, 1911. 

 Nevil Story Maskelyn, May 27, 1911. 

 Ralph Tate. 

 Hennadius D. Romano wsky. 



The following Standing Committees appointed by the Council, 

 December 24, 1910, were inadvertently omitted from the proceedings 

 of January 3, 1911: 



Finance. — John Cadwalader, Edwin S. Dixon, Effingham B. 

 Morris, William D. Winsor, and the Treasurer (George Vaux, Jr.). 



Publications. — Henry Skinner, M.D., Witmer Stone, A.M., 

 Henry A. Pilsbry, Sc.D., William J. Fox, and Edward J. Nolan, M.D. 




522 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF Oct.^ 



Library.— Thomas H. Fenton, M.D., Thomas Biddle, M.D., 

 George Vaux, Jr., Henry Tucker, M.D., and Frank J. Keeley. 



Instruction and Lectures. — Henry A. Pilsbry, Sc.D., Charles 

 Morris, Witmer Stone, A.M., Henry Tucker, M.D., and George 

 Spencer Morris. 



October 17. 



Philip P. Calvert, Ph.D., in the Chair. 



Twenty-one persons present. 



The reception of papers under the following titles was reported : 



"Mollusca of Arkansas, Louisiana and Mississippi," by E. G. 

 Vanatta (October 16). 



"Notes on some Pleurotomariidae of the Cretaceous of New 

 Jersey," by Henry A. Pilsbry, Sc.D. (October 17). 



The death of Florentino Ameghino, a Correspondent, was reported. 



Mr. Wither Stone spoke of the fauna and flora of western 

 Maryland and their relationships. (No abstract.) 



Uhlic Dahlgren and John Sinnott were elected members. 



The following were ordered to be printed: 




1911.1 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



523 



A NEW EAST INDIAN EUCIROA. 



BY H. A. PILSBRY. 



In a collection of invertebrates from the East Indies there was a 

 single right valve of Euciroa, differing from all described species 

 of the genus by its great size and by the orbicular shape. 

 Euciroa dalli n. sp. 



The shell is rather plump, subcircular, slightly inequilateral, the 

 length and height about equal. Anterior margin broadly rounded; 

 posterior margin obtusely subangu- 

 lar near the base, with a shallow 

 emargination above the angle. 

 Dorsal and ventral margins about 

 equally convex. Beaks small, slightly 

 projecting above the margin and 

 turned forward. The exterior is 

 evenly convex except for a low, 

 rounded ridge running to the pos- 

 terior angle, the area above it being 

 flattened. Surface sculptured with 

 many unequally spaced low radii 

 bearing small, well-raised pustules, 

 the slightly concave intervals be- 

 tween the radii irregularly, rather 

 closely and minutely granular. The 

 posterior flattened area has no 

 radial rows of pustules, but is 

 densely granular. Lines of growth 

 are scarcely visible except near the 

 basal and posterior margins, where 

 they are rather strong and irregular. 

 It is light buff with some reddish 

 stains. 



The interior is briUiantly pearly, with some iridescence of the 

 silvery surface chiefly towards the margins. The adductor muscle 

 impressions are large and deep. Within the smooth pallial band 

 there is a broad roughened area. The lower margin of the valve 



E. dalli. (About f natural size.) 




524 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct.. 



has a very narrow, dull, minutely pitted border, within which the 

 nacreous layer is finely, almost regularly grooved at right angles to 

 the edge, with some coarse, unequal and irregularly placed wrinkles 

 in the same direction. The cartilage pit is deeply excavated, the 

 tooth stout, erect and triangular. 



Length 67, alt. 65^, semidiameter 21 mm. 



Near Sibuko Bay, Borneo. 



This species is much larger than any of the known Poromyaceous 

 •clams. It is far larger and shorter than the Hawaiian Euciroa 

 pacifica Dall.* 



A very similar, perhaps identical species from the Philippines is 

 contained in the collections made by Dr. Paul Bartsch while on the 

 •" Albatross, " which I was able to inspect through the kindness of 

 Dr. William H. Dall. 



1 Report on MoUusca and Brachiopoda dredged in Deep Water, chiefly near 

 the Hawaiian Islands, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XVII, p. 688, 1895. 




1911.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



525 



MOLLUSCA OF ARKANSAS, LOUISIANA AND MISSISSIPPI. 

 BY E. G. VANATTA. 



The following species of shells were collected by Mr. Clarence B. 

 Moore and presented to the Academy of Natural Sciences. In the 

 absence of any records covering the region, it was thought desirable 

 to list the species found. 



Bifidaria oontracta climeana n. var. Figs. 1, 2, 3. 



Shell similar to typical contracta Say, but the parietal tooth lacks 

 the inner continuation, being L-shaped. 

 Alt. 2.29, diam. 1.43 mm. 



Type in the collection of the Academy number 97,605 from near 

 Anderson Landing, on the Sunflower River near the confluence with 

 the Yazoo River, Sharkey Co., Miss. Also in the collection from 

 near Blakeley, Baldwin Co., Ala.; Simpson Island, Baldwin Co., 

 Ala. (Clarence B. Moore); Calera and Wetumpka, Ala. (H. H. 

 Smith); O'Neil Landing, Yazoo Co., Miss. (C. B. Moore); City 

 Park, New Orleans, La. (S. N. Rhoads) ; above Eagle Island Landing, 

 Franklin Parish and Sycamore Landing, Morehouse Parish, La. 

 (Clarence B. Moore); Carlock Place and Tebbs Place, Ashley Co., 

 and near Menard Landing, Arkansas Co., Ark. (C. B. Moore); 

 Navidad River bottom, Jackson Co., Tex. (J. D. Mitchell). 



Named in honor of Mr. Arthur W. Clime, one of Mr. Moore's 

 assistants. 

 3.5 




526 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



St. Francis River, Cross Co., Ark., collected by Arthur W. Clime: 



POLYGYRA THYROIDUS Say. 

 POLYGYRA DENOTATA Fcr. 



CiRciNARiA coNCAVA Say. 



ZONITOIDES MINUSCULA Binil. 



Mesomphix l^vigata Beck. 



St. Francis River, seven miles above Parkin, Cross Co., Ark., 

 collected by Arthur W. Clime: 



Circinaria CONCAVA Say. 

 Omphalina friabilis W. G. B. 



ZONITOIDES SINGIiEYANA Pils. 



Near Wampoo Landing, Arkansas River, Pulaski Co., Ark.: 



POLYGYRA LEPORINA Old. 

 VlTREA INDENTATA Say. 

 ZONITOIDES ARBOREA Say. 



ZoNiToiDES MINUSCULA Binn. 

 Helicodiscus parallelus Say. 



About twenty-five miles below Pine Bluff, Arkansas River, Jeffer- 

 son Co., Ark.: 



POLYGYRA THYROIDUS Say. 



About thirty miles above Pine Bluff, Arkansas River, Jefferson 

 Co., Ark.: 



POLY'GYRA ALBOLABRIS ALLENI Weth. 



Sladers Landing, Arkansas River, Jefferson Co., Ark.: 



POLYGYRA INFLECTA Say. 

 BiFIDARIA CORTICARIA Say. 



Strobilops labyrinthica Say. 



VlTREA SIGNIFICANS Bid. 



Vitrea hammonis Strom. 

 EucoNULus CHERSiNUS TROCHULUs Reiuh. 

 Helicodiscus parallelus Say. 

 Pyramidula alternata Say. 



Old River Landing, Arkansas River above Arkansas Post, Arkansas 

 Co., Ark.: 



Polygyra THYROIDUS Say. Imperforate- 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 527 



Between South Bend and Douglas, Arkansas River, Arkansas 

 Co., Ark.: 



PoLYGYRA THYROiDUS Say. Umbilicate and imperforate. 



Near Menard Landing, Arkansas River, Arkansas Co., Ark.: 



POLYGYRA INFIiECTA Say. 



BiFIDARIA CONTRACTA CLIMEANA Van. 



Strobilops strebeli aenea Pils. 



MeSOMPHIX LAEVIGATA Pfr. 



ViTREA indentata Say. 

 Striatura MILIUM Mse. 



ZONITOIDES ARBOREA Say. 



ZoNiTOiDES MINUSCULA Binn. 

 Pyramidula alternata Say. 



Near Douglas, Arkansas River, Lincoln Co., Ark. : 



BiFIDARIA PENTODON Say. 

 ZONITOIDES ARBOREA Say, 



ZoNiToiDES MINUSCULA Binn. 

 Pyramidula alternata Say. 



A few miles below Camden, Ouachita River, Ouachita Co., Ark.: 



POLYGYRA THYROIDUS Say. 



Polygyra obstricta carolinensis Lea. 



Kent, near Camden, Ouachita Co., Ark., about two miles from 

 the Ouachita River: 



Polygyra thyroidus Say. Imperforate. 



Polygyra inflecta Say. 



Polygyra leporina Old. 



Polygyra obstricta carolinensis Lea. 



BiFIDARIA CONTRACTA Say. 



Vertigo milium Old. 



Strobilops strebeli aenea Pils., Young. 



VlTREA INDENTATA UMBILICATA Ckll. 



Striatura milium Mse. 



ZONITOIDES ARBOREA Say. 



Carychium EXILE Lea. 



Friar's Bluff, Ouachita River, Ouachita Co., Ark.: 



Strobilops strebeli aenea Pils. 




528 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [Oct., 



ZONITOIDES ARBOREA Say. 



Omphalina cuprea Raf. 

 Striatura milium meridionalis Pils. 

 EucoNULUs CHERSiNUS TROCHULUS Reinh. 

 Helicodiscus parallelus Say. 



Near Purdue Wood Camp, Ouachita River, Calhoun Co., Ark.: 



PoLYGYRA THYROiDUS Say. Imperforate. 

 PoLYGYRA inflecta Say. 



POLYGYRA LEPORINA Gld. 



Vitrea indentata umbilicata Ckll. 



ZONITOIDES ARBOREA Say. 

 ZONITOIDES MINUSCULA Binil. 



EucoNULUS CHERSINUS TROCHULUS Reinh. 



Keller Place Landing, Ouachita River, Calhoun Co., Ark.: 

 PoLYGYRA THYROIDUS Say. Imperforate. 



POLYGYRA LEPORINA Gld. 

 BiFIDARIA CONTRACTA Say. 



Vertigo oscariana St. 

 Strobilops texasiana Pils. 

 Vitrea indentata umbilicata Ckll. 

 Striatura milium meridionaijs Pils. 



ZONITOIDES ARBOREA Say. 



Omphalina cuprea Raf. 



EucoNULUs CHERSINUS TROCHULUS Reinh. 



Carychium EXILE Lea. 



Carlock Place, Bayou Bartholomew, Ashley Co., Ark.: 



Polygyra THYROIDUS Say. Imperforate. 

 Polygyra INFLECTA Say. 

 Polygyra leporina Gld. 



BiFIDARIA CONTRACTA CLIMEANA Van. 



Strobilops labyrinthica Say. 

 Vitrea indentata Say. 

 Vitrea hammonis Strom. 

 Zonitoides ARBOREA Say. 

 Zonitoides MINUSCULA Biuu. 



Tebbs Place, Bayou Bartholomew, Ashley Co., Ark. : 

 Polygyra inflecta Say. 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 529 



BiFIDARIA CONTRACTA CLIMEANA Van, 

 VlTREA INDENTATA Say. 



Striatura milium Mse. 



ZONITOIDES ARBOREA Say. 

 ZONITOIDES MINUSCULA BilUl. 



liOvett Landing, Bayou Bartholomew, Morehouse Parish, La.: 



ZONITOIDES ARBOREA Say. 

 ZONITOIDES SINGLEYANA Pils. 



Vertigo rugulosa St. 



Sycamore Landing, Bayou Bartholomew, Morehouse Parish, La.: 



BiFIDARIA CONTRACTA CLIMEANA Van. 



BiFIDARIA pentodon tappaniana Ad. 

 Strobilops texasiana Pils. 



ZONITOIDES ARBOREA Say. 



Wards Place near Wardville, Bayou Bartholomew, Morehouse 

 Parish, La.: 



Strobilops strebeli aenea Pils. 

 ZoNiToiDES MINUSCULA Binn. 



ZONITOIDES SINGLEYANA Pils. 



Near Miller Landing, Bayou Bartholomew, Morehouse Parish, La. : 



POLYGYRA THYROIDUS Say. 

 ZONITOIDES ARBOREA Say. 



ZONITOIDES MINUSCULA Binn. 

 Pyramidula alternata Say. Young. 



Mound Landing, Bayou Bartholomew, Morehouse Parish, La.: 



POLYGYRA THYROIDUS Say. 



Near Jones, Bayou Bartholomew, Morehouse Parish, La. : 



POLYGYRA THYROIDUS Say. 



PoLYGYRA inflecta Say. 



BiFIDARIA pentodon TAPPANIANA Ad. 



Strobilops strebeli aenea Pils. 



VlTREA INDENTATA Say. 



Omphalina friabilis Binn. 

 Mesomphix l^vigata Beck. 

 Pyramidula alternata Say. 




530 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



Wilson Landing, Bayou Bartholomew, Morehouse Parish, La.: 

 Strobilops labyrinthica Say. 



VlTREA INDENTATA UMBILICATA Ckll. 



Above Charlieville, Boeuf River, Richland Parish, La. : 



Strobilops strebeli aenea Pils. 

 ZoNiTOiDES arborea Say. 



Port Union Landing, Ouachita River, Ouachita Parish, La. : 



ZoNiTOiDES arborea Say. 



Myatt's Landing, Ouachita River, Ouachita Parish, La. : 



ZONITOIDES SINGLEYANA Pils. 



Stubbs Plantation, Ouachita River, Ouachita Parish, La.: 



ZONITOIDES ARBOREA Say. 



Above Eagle Landing, Bayou Boeuf, Franklin Parish, La.: 



POLYGYRA THYROIDUS Say. 



Bifid ARIA contracta clime an a Van. 

 Strobilops strebeli aenea Pils. 



Dailey Landing, Boeuf River, Franklin Parish, La.: 

 PoLYGYRA THYROIDUS Say. Nearly imperforate. 



POLYGYRA INFLECT A Say. 

 ZONITOIDES ARBOREA Say. 



Mesomphix l^vigata Beck. 

 Pyramidula alternata Say. 



Jones Landing, Bayou Boeuf, Franklin Parish, La.: 



PoLYGYRA THYROIDUS Say. Imperforate. 

 Euglandina rosea bullata Gld. 



Blue Cane Landing, Black River, Catahoula Parish, La. : 



POLYGYRA THYROIDUS Say. 



Bifidaria pentodon tappaniana Ad. 

 Strobilops strebeli aenea Pils. 



VlTREA INDENTATA Say. 



Zonitoides ARBOREA Say. 



One mile below Harrisonburg, Ouachita River, Catahoula Parish, 

 La.: 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 531 



VlTREA INDENTATA Say. 

 ZONITOIDES ARBOREA Say. 



Welch Landing, Ouachita River, Catahoula Parish, La.: 

 Strobilops strebeli Pfr. 



VlTREA INDENTATA Say. 

 ZONITOIDES ARBOREA Say. 



Pyramidula alternata Say. 



Junction of Bushley Creek and Old River, a fork of liittle River, 

 Catahoula Parish, La.: 



ZONITOIDES ARBOREA Say. 



Donohue Ferry, Little River, Catahoula Parish, La. r 

 Strobilops labyrinthica Say. 



VlTREA INDENTATA UMBILICATA Ckll. 

 ZONITOIDES ARBOREA Say. 



ZoNiTOiDES MINUSCULA Binn. 



EUCONULUS CHERSINUS DENTATUS St. 



Two miles above Jonesville, Little River, La. : 



POLYGYRA THYROIDUS Say. 



PoLYGYRA MONODON FRiERSONi Pils. A small form. 



POLYGYRA LEPORINA Gld. 



Pyramidula alternata Say. 



VlTREA INDENTATA Say. 

 ZONITOIDES ARBOREA Say. 



EucoNULUs CHERSINUS Say. 



Mr. Cody's Place, O'Neil Landing, Yazoo River, Yazoo Co., Miss.: 



POLYGYRA APPRESSA PERIGRAPTA Pils. 

 BiFIDARIA CONTRACTA CLIMEANA Van. 

 BiFIDARIA PENTODON Say. 



Strobilops strebeli aenea Pils. 



VlTREA INDENTATA Say. 

 ZONITOIDES ARBOREA Say. 



Pyramidula alternata Say. 



Near Anderson Landing, Sunflower River, Sharkey Co., Miss.: 



POLYGYRA ALBOLABRIS Say. Young. 

 POLYGYRA denotata Fcr. 




532 ' PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



BlFIDARIA PENTODON Say. 



BiFIDARIA CONTRACTA CLIMEANA Van. 



Strobilops strebeli Pfr. 



VlTREA INDENTATA Say. 

 ZONITOIDES ARBOREA Say. 



ZoNiTOiDEs siNGLEYANA Pils. Greenish-yellow. 

 Pyramidula alternata Say. 




1911.] natural sciences of philadelphia. 533 



November 7. 

 Mr. Charles Morris in the Chair. 



Twenty persons present. 



The reception of the following papers was reported: 



"A Monograph of the Procyonidae, " by R. W. Shufeldt, M.D. 

 (October 17). 



"The Formation of Ripple-marks, Tracks, and Trails," by Amos 

 P. Brown (October 25). 



The death of Ernest Andre, a correspondent, June 14, was an- 

 nounced. , 



In announcing the death on October 31 of the Rev. Henry C. 

 McCooK, D.D., the Recording Secretary stated that he had been 

 elected a member August 31, 1875, and had served as Vice-President 

 from May, 1882, to December, 1900. 



He was earnest and efficient as the Chairman of the Committee 

 on Lectures and Instruction from 1880 to 1887. During the period 

 of his active association he was always energetic in the enforcement 

 of what he regarded as best for the welfare of the Academy. 



His work on the natural history of ants and spiders will give him 

 a permanent place in the history of Science in America. 



A more extended notice of Dr. McCook's scientific work will be 

 published by the Entomological Section of the Academy. 



John W. Harshberger, Ph.D., made a communication on the 

 vegetation of extreme southern Florida. (No abstract.) 



Captain Hugh L. Willoughby, in continuation, spoke of the 

 physiography and primitive vegetation of Lake Ochichobee and the 

 Everglades. 



November 21. 

 The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M.D., LL.D., in the Chair. 



Thirty-two persons present. 



The reception of a paper entitled "Notes on Salmonoid and related 

 Fishes," by Henry W. Fowler, was reported. 



The death of Malcolm Lloyd, a member, September 27, was 

 announced. 



Mr. Charles Morris m.ade a communication on the extinction 

 of the giant reptiles. (No abstract.) 



The following were ordered to be printed: 




534 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [NoV., 



NOTES ON SOME PLEUROTOMAEIIDa: OF THE CRETACEOUS OF NEW JERSEY. 

 BY HENRY A. PILSBRY, Sc.D. 



The following notes are based upon a study of the type specimens 

 of the species discussed, together with other examples in the collection 

 of the Academy. The generic term Pleurotomaria is here used in the 

 older, wide sense. 



Pleurotomaria orotaloides (Morton). 



drills crotaloides Morton, Synopsis Organic Remains Cretaceous group of 



the U. S., p. 49, pi. 19, fig. 5, 1834. 

 Pleurotomaria crotaloides Pils., Proc. A. N. S. Phila., 1896, p. 11 (notes on 



Morton's type specimen). 



This species is represented in the collection of the Academy by 

 the type specimen from Erie, Ala., figured 

 by Morton, and a smaller example from 

 Uniontown, in which the slit is well shown. 

 It is 17 mm. long, so far as preserved, 

 probably about 20 when perfect, and 1 mm. 

 wide (fig. 1). Both specimens are internal 

 casts. 



In 1896 the writer identified a much 

 Yig.\~^. crotaloides. ^^rger cast from Mullica Hill with P. 

 crotaloides, a conclusion which renewed 

 study shows was erroneous. The Mullica Hill example differs in 

 several important particulars, as indicated below under P. woolmani. 

 In 1907 Professor Stuart Weller understood P. crotaloides to 

 include Architectonica ahhotti Gabb as well as the form now differ- 

 entiated as P. woolmani. This course seems to me untenable, for 

 reasons given below. So far as present information and collections 

 show, P. crotaloides (Morton) is not known to occur in New Jersey. 



Flenrotomaria abbotti (Gabb.). 



Architectonica ahhotti Gabb, Proc. A. N. S. Phila., 1861, p. 321. 

 Margaritella ahhotti Gabb, Whitfield, Gastrop. and Ceph. of the Raritan 



Clays and Greensand Marls of New Jersey, p. 134, pi. 17, figs. 12-15. 

 Pleurotomaria crotaloides Morton, Weller, Rep. on the Cret. Paleont. of 



New Jersey, 1907, p. 665. Not of Morton. 



Professor Whitfield's figures give a good idea of this species, though 

 they are somewhat "restored," the plication below the suture being 

 made continuous, whereas in the shells it has been partially effaced; 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 535 



moreover, the spiral striation depicted is far less distinct in the 

 specimens themselves. One of the two cotypes shows the trace of 

 a slit, a short distance above the periphery, narrower and nearer 

 to the periphery than in P. crotaloides. The specimens are internal 

 casts composed of coarse glauconitic sand. The fact that they show 

 sculpture indicates that the shell was quite thin, its inner surface 

 being modified in conformity with the external ornamentation. 

 P. crotaloides was probably thicker, since the casts, although in fine 

 material, show no trace whatever of sculpture. This alone would 

 indicate the specific diversity of P. crotaloides and P. abhotti; but 

 an inspection of the fossils shows that the spire was a little higher 

 in P. abhotti, and the greatest convexity of the upper surface of the 

 whorls is not quite so close to the suture. The umbilicus is about 

 equal in the casts of the two species, being somewhat less than 

 one-third the total diameter of the shell. In P. woolmani it is more 

 than one-third the diameter. There can, I believe, be no reasonable 

 doubt that P. abhotti is specifically distinct from P. crotaloides. 



Pleurotomaria woolmani n. sp. 



Pleurotomaria crolnloides Pilsbry, Proc. A. N. S. Phila., 1896, p. 10, pi. I. 

 Not of Morton. 



This species differs from both P. crotaloides and P. abhotti by its 

 broad umbilicus, which is contained 2| times in the diameter of the 

 shell, while in the other species it is contained more than three times 

 (3j to fully 3|) in the diameter. The earlier whorls are evenly 

 rounded above, oval in section, not irregularly swollen as in the 

 other species. There is no trace of the radial sculpture of P. abhotti, 

 although the cast is very perfectly preserved. The unique type, an 

 internal cast, has been described and figured in my paper cited 

 above. It measures 70 mm. in diameter. The type is No. 1625 

 A. N. S. P. 



This species is named in honor of the late Lewis Woolman, whose 

 work on well-borings contributed important facts relative to the 

 stratigraphy of New Jersey. He was also a successful collector of 

 fossils. 




536 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [NoV., 



THE FOEMATION OF KIPPLE-MARKS, TRACKS, AND TRAILS. 

 BY AMOS P. BROWN, PH.D. 



In the summer of 1902 I spent a portion of August in camp near 

 the head of Sandwich Bay, Labrador. Our camp was located at a 

 place called Dove Point on the charts, near the mouth of Dove 

 Brook and at the mouth of the estuary of White Bear River, which 

 latter empties into this arm of the bay some three miles above the 

 Point. Dove Point extends out from the north shore of Sandwich 

 Bay for more than a mile, nearly to the channel leading to the river 

 mouth, the deep-water portion of which is here about one-third of a 

 mile wide. Extending to the northeast, towards Dove Brook and 

 the Mealy Mountains, are wide mud flats, laid bare with each low 

 tide; beginning with a breadth of a mile and a half at the Point and 

 gradually narrowing until they disappear altogether at some 4 or 5 

 miles along the shore. To the northwest of the Point they extend 

 for some three miles, beginning with a width of half a mile and 

 gradually narrowing to the mouth of White Bear River. 



The higher ground at the Point, about 20 feet above the water 

 level, is composed of sand and gravel with occasional boulders, which 

 probably represents the Saxicava sands or Upper Boulder deposits 

 of Canada, although no fossils were found in the sands. At their 

 base and underlying these sands is the clay deposit, in which is found 

 numerous shells of the Leda clays, such as Saxicava arctica Desh., 

 Serripes groenlandicus (Chem.), Astarte elliptica McGill, Macoma 

 sabulosa Morch, etc., and scattered over the surface of the clay flats 

 are many large boulders left by the erosion of the clays by the water. 

 As the tide is not very high here, about three feet on the average, 

 these flats are gradually covered by a shallow layer of water, which 

 ripples in over the flat with each rising tide. It is generally accom- 

 panied by wind, which makes little wavelets that break on the shore 

 when the water finally reaches it. The level of the flats is so nearly 

 perfect that when they are completely covered by the rising tide 

 this layer of water is in general but a few inches deep near the shore^ 

 though at some distance from the shore it may be three feet deep 

 over some parts of the flat that were laid bare at low tide. The 

 clay is particularly firm and compact, and retains impressions made 

 upon it for many succeeding tides. As the bay freezes to the bottom 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 537 



in winter, even down to a much greater depth than is exposed by the 

 receding tide, the firm character of the clay may be due in part to 

 the effect of ice pressure, but this clay deposit was doubtless covered 

 by the sand and gravel of which a remnant remains in the raised 

 ground on the Point, and this being some 20 feet thick would have 

 compressed the clay to the firmness which it exhibited upon these 

 flats. To the northwest of our camp it was beautifully rippled for a 

 mile or more and for the full width of the flats. The sandy strand 

 on the west side of Dove Point was also rippled with each tide. 

 I thus had an excellent opportunity to study the formation of 

 water-formed ripple-marks and other impressions made upon this 

 clay surface, and I was at once struck by their close resemblance to 

 similar markings so common in the continental deposits of the 

 Triassic of the State of Pennsylvania, which I had studied while 

 connected with the Geological Survey of that State. Other mark- 

 ings on these clay surfaces closely resembled the tracks and trails 

 described and figured by Hitchcock in the rocks of this age in the 

 Connecticut Valley.^ Their origin on these mud flats could readily 

 be seen and, as they so exactly resemble the formations found in the 

 rocks, a description of them may throw some light upon the markings 

 observed by Hitchcock and others. 



No living moUusks were seen on the mud flats, being doubtless- 

 killed by the freezing of the bay in winter, but species of Mya are 

 evidently living in the deeper water of the bay, as their shells were 

 occasionally encountered in places where they had been stranded 

 by the tide. To the east, towards the Mealy Mountains along the 

 shore, a few specimens of gastropods were seen, some three or four 

 miles down the bay. 



While mollusks are rare, the sea weeds in some parts of the bay 

 flourish in great luxuriance. Where the shore is rocky and the 

 bottom is composed of sand and shingle rather than clay, as is the 

 case to the east side of the bay, especially from East Arm to Cart- 

 wright, and, in fact, along all the shores examined where the condi- 

 tions were favorable, the bottom is covered with a dense growth of 

 Fucus, probably F. vesciculosus L., which here attains a height of 

 three or four feet and forms dense masses of several feet in diameter. 

 In the deeper water, especially in the channels, are seen the broad 

 fronds of Laminaria longicrucis De la Pyl., extending up from the 

 bottom and the laminae waving about in the current. AVhen seen 



' Edward Hitchcock, Ichnology of Nsw England, 1858; Supplement to the 

 Ichnology of New England, 1865. 




538 



procp:edi\gs of the academy of 



[Nov., 



stranded on the shore, the fronds are found to be twenty or twenty- 

 five feet long or even more, including six or eight feet of stipe. Along 

 the rocky shores everywhere towards the head of the bay, and even 

 on the clay flats, attached to stones and pebbles, the Ulva entero- 

 morpha Le Jolis was seen growing abundantly. When I add that 

 the shores of the pDint were covered with pieces of drift wood of all 

 sizes so thickly that we were not in need of other fuel for our camp 

 during our stay there, and that various species of ducks, snipe and 

 other water birds frequently traversed the surface, while occasional 

 bear and caribou came close up to our camp across the flats, I have 



Fig. 1. — Kii)ples of deposition. 



enumerated nearly all the factors concerned in the formation of the 

 markings noted. 



The Ripple-marks. — The study of recent ripple-marks seems to 

 have been largely confined to wind ripples on sandy surfaces and 

 to current ripples in channels and along the shore. A study of 

 these ripples formed along the strand and on the clay flats at Dove 

 Point discloses at once the fact that they are of two kinds; and 

 these two kinds are formed at the sandy strand and on the clay 

 flats, respectively. They are, on the shore, ripples of deposition 

 (mainly), and on the clay flats they are ripples of erosion. 




1911.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



539 



The sandy strand was always ripple-marked after each tide, if 

 the surface of the water in the bay was somewhat ruffled by the 

 wind. The incoming tide pushed the sand along and, combined 

 with the wave motion in the shallow water, moulded the sandy 

 surface into a series of ripples which closely resemble those made 

 by the wind on dry, sandy surfaces. They- are mainly ripples of 

 deposition, the sand surface moving with the advancing water as 

 the dry sand surface, thrown into wind ripples, advances under the 

 force of the wind. But there is also a little erosion in the shaping 

 of these ripples, although the main action of the water is to deposit 

 material. 



The sand ripples which form along the strand are quite large; 

 they range from three to four inches from crest to crest, and some- 

 times are even wider. The depth of the trough is f inch or more in 

 some cases. Their general appearance is well shown in fig. 1, which 

 is a photograph of this rippled surface taken looking vertically down 



Fig. 2. — Section of ripples of deposition. 



from above. Here the left of the picture is that portion of the 

 strand towards the open water of the bay and the right is towards 

 the land. When the tide is coming in the water and sand trans- 

 ported by it are moving from the' bay towards the land. The slope 

 of the ripple towards the water or bay side is gentle; up this slope 

 the advancing water pushes the sand grains, which, after they pass 

 the crest, fall down the steeper landward slope of the ripple and 

 assume the angle of repose, making the ripple steeper on this land- 

 ward side. The advancing water strikes the bay slope of the next 

 ripple and removes a portion of its surface, from the fainter, smaller 

 crest seen on this slope in the photograph up to the crest itself. 

 The result is that the landward slope continually advances, while 

 parts are cut away from the bay-side slope so that the one grows by 

 deposition of the material removed from the other. The top of 

 the ripple is rounded with one steep side, sloping down to a rather 

 sharp trough, and one gently sloping side, running from this trough 




540 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Nov., 



to the next crest, and this gentle slope having its upper part contin- 

 ually cut away by the water action, making a little subsidiary ripple- 

 mark (fig. 2). During the advance of the tide these ripple-marks 

 are formed over large strand surfaces, and when the tide recedes 

 they are often modifed 'and the troughs deepened by erosion. In 

 some cases they are obliterated, in other cases they may be covered 

 up by other sand deposits and preserved; but in general this last 

 will only happen occasionally, when an exceptionally high tide or a 

 flood from a river brings down an unusual amount of material from 



Fig. 3. — View of rippled sti'and. 



the shore. As the streams here are mostly bog-fed, this can only 

 happen by landslide or other cause that adds a large amount of 

 detritus to the stream water. At Dove Point the ripples in the 

 sand of the strand could hardly be preserved, except in case of very 

 high tide. This double form of ripple of deposition is found in wind- 

 swept sand also, but does not seem to be very common among the 

 ripple-marked surfaces that are preserved in the rocks. It is quite 

 probable that the bulk of these are produced by erosion alone, not 

 by deposition, and the ripples made by erosion are of a different 

 form. 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 541 



Where these strand ripples of deposition are reworked by the 

 receding tide they are deepened in the trough, the steep side becomes 

 rather steeper and the crest crumbles away, becoming sometimes 

 narrower, sometimes even sinking locally by the softening and 

 collapse of the sand when impregnated with water. The waves 

 in the water undoubtedly condition the formation of the ripples in 

 the sand. In fig. 3 the rippled strand is shown after the tide has 

 partly receded and the small water waves seen on the surface of the 

 bay are similar to those that have rippled the sandy shore. The 

 sands here are derived from the raised beach of the Saxicava sands, 

 which formation is formed on both sides of the estuary of White 

 Bear River. They are being continually washed down from the 

 banks of this raised beach upon the Leda clays, which they overlie 

 stratigraphically. 



The clays of the flats are finely rippled in some places over large 

 surfaces. The appearance of these rippled surfaces is well shown 





Fig. 4. — Section of ripples of erosion. 



in the photograph, Plate XLI, fig. 1, which was taken on the flats 

 about one-quarter of a mile to the west of our camp. The boulder- 

 strewn surface of the flat is very noticeable at the back of the picture. 

 These ripples were carved out of the hard, tough surface of the Leda 

 clay, and were so firm that in walking over them in the Eskimo 

 skin boots we wore we left scarcely any impression; and even a 

 bear, traversing this ripple-marked surface, did not flatten down 

 the crests of the ripples very much. They were quite uniform in 

 dimensions, as the picture shows, with a width from crest to crest 

 of the ripples of about one and three-quarters to two inches and a 

 depth amounting to not more than one-quarter of an inch. Unlike 

 the ripples of deposition, these erosion ripples had a rather sharp 

 crest, about one-quarter of an inch broad; the trough was concave, 

 nearly or quite symmetrically so, and rounded out with a gentle 

 curve (see fig. 4). They did not cover the entire surface of the flat, 

 but were more pronounced where the water had to travel a greater 

 distance over the flat, and where, therefore, there was more current. 




542 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [NoV., 



As the tide rose continuously, and the water advanced regularly 

 over the flat, there was a progressive flow of the water over the 

 surface of the mud; but, in some places, ripples were regularly 

 produced; in other places, especially near the shore, the surface was 

 nearly plane and free of ripples, Plate XLI, fig. 2. On these surfaces 

 other markings were produced. The rippling of the water by the 

 winds is the cause of the formation of these erosion ripples. Their 

 formation was investigated by wading about in the shallow water, 

 two to six inches deep, while the tide was advancing over the flats. 

 It was then seen that at the passage of each wave there was raised 

 a slight cloud of muddy water from the concave of the ripple. The 

 surface of the clay was softened for about one or two millimeters 

 in depth when the tide was in over the flats, and in this soft surface 

 impressions could be made by any object moving over the bottom 

 and touching it, from time to time or continuously. But the ripples 

 were very permanent, remaining in the same place for days. That 

 they have the origin assigned to them there can be no doubt, they 

 are not of the form" of the ripples of deposition and they are firm 

 and persistent. They closely resemble the ordinary forms of ripples 

 that are seen on the rock surfaces in the Trias, for example; and 

 that erosion was the source of these Triassic ripples in many cases, 

 I have very little doubt. They are very constant in form, as has been 

 noted, and very persistent, owing to the tough and tenacious char- 

 acter of the Leda clay. That such ripple-marked surfaces should 

 be preserved if the flats were subject to inundations by water highly 

 charged with sediment seems certain; and while such was not the 

 case here, the water would be just as efficient as an erosive agent 

 if it contained a charge of sediment. The wind waves start the 

 erosion of the ripple; but, as it develops, it reacts upon the water, 

 producing waves when the wind is not blowing as well as when the 

 surface of the water is rippled by the wind. That this form of 

 erosion ripples is more common on hard mud bottoms than the 

 ripple of deposition and that on sandy bottoms the ripple produced 

 by deposition is more common, is indicated, too, by an examination 

 of rippled surfaces of rock. The finer material seems to be more 

 often marked with the symmetrically concave, sharp crested, erosion 

 ripples; while the coarser materials, such as sands, show more often 

 the rounded crest and peculiar unsymmetrical shape of the deposi- 

 tion ripples. 



The Tracks of Animals. — As has been noted above, large mammals 

 and birds, moving over the claj'' flats, left their foot-marks upon the 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 543 



surfaces. On one occasion a caribou almost walked into camp 

 during the early morning and it traversed about two miles of the 

 flat to the west. Its foot-prints were deeply impressed into the 

 clay surface; on the rippled parts they were more than the depth 

 of the ripple-mark. The median digits were impressed below the 

 level of the trough of the ripple, and even the lateral digits sometimes 

 made a mark, especially where the foot had slipped slightly. The 

 clay was so firm, however, that the foot-prints did not exceed one 

 inch in depth at any place, although this deer is a heavy animal. 

 The impressions were very persistent, they continued to be dis- 

 tinctly outlined for days after they had been formed; and, indeed, 

 were quite distinguishable when we left the camp, about a week 

 after they had been impressed in the clay. They probably lasted 

 much longer, yet they were covered by the tide twice in each twenty- 

 four hours during the period of observation. If this water had 

 contained any considerable amount of sediment they might have 

 been covered and preserved. 



At another time one or two bears were roaming about on the 

 flats; they left a much less distinct impression, scarcely flattening 

 out the ripples in the clay, though in some cases their claws were 

 deeply impressed. This indicates the hard character of the clay, 

 for these animals have considerable weight. Being plantigrade, the 

 larger surface distributes the weight, so that the foot-prints were 

 not deeply impressed. Nevertheless, they could be traced after the 

 flats had been covered by several succeeding tides, and the clavr 

 portion of the track was visible after 5 or 6 tides. 



Some dogs (temporarily abandoned by their owners, who had 

 gone out to the coast to fish during the summer) attached them- 

 selves to our camp; and their tracks, made when they were coming 

 in for their meals, were also found to last for two or three days. 

 Our own tracks were about as permanent, unless in the softened 

 clay, where they were of course more deeply impressed and there- 

 fore much more permanent. The tracks made by the birds only 

 affected the shallow layer of soft clay, perhaps about one-eighth of 

 an inch deep, and they generally could not be seen after one tide 

 had covered them. In some of the unrippled places, however, the 

 bird tracks seemed to be covered by clay, and were doubtless pre- 

 served until the surface was again eroded. Of course, if much 

 sediment were being deposited, they might be preserved permanently, 

 but here they were generally only temporary. 



These animal tracks, when deeply impressed into the clay surface, 




544 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [NoV., 



could all be permanently preserved in places where the rivers are 

 bringing considerable sediment into the water; where the flats are 

 less frequently covered by the water, as, for instance, in the case of 

 the flood plains in the estuary of a river, they would have more 

 chance to be permanently preserved. From observations made 

 elsewhere, where a river that was subject to freshets after heavy 

 rains covered such flood grounds, the sediment after one rise would 

 often amount to one-quarter of an inch of silt, which would dry to 

 about one-third of this thickness. Such a layer would be quite 

 enough to cover and preserve all but the deeper tracks; and even 

 these might be filled in some cases. But the permanence and 

 sharply defined character of the impressions were the most signifi- 

 cant facts observed at this locality. 



The Trails and other Impressions on the Clay Flats. — In his 

 "Ichnology of New England," 1858, and the "Supplement to the 

 Ichnology of New England," 1865, Edward Hitchcock has de- 

 scribed, besides undoubted reptilian and batrachian tracks, many 

 other markings which he observed on the shale and sandstone layers of 

 the Connecticut Triassic. Some of them he ascribes to fishes, Crus- 

 taceans, Annelids, and insects, as well as some which he calls "fu- 

 coids, " or simply "plants," and a few that he did not assign to any 

 group. The illustrations of these irregular markings ascribed to 

 fishes, such as his genus Ptilichnus, as well as some that he calls 

 "of doubtful character," such as his Grammichnus and Mnigmichnus, 

 and some of the "crustacean" and "insect" tracks, are very much 

 like forms that I observed on some of the smoother parts of these 

 flats. Continuous trails, such as he calls annelid tracks, were also 

 common, and in all cases the manner of production of these trails 

 was observed. They were not here produced by living animals 

 in any case. For instance, when the incoming tide carried along 

 with it a bunch of Ulva enteromorpha attached to a small gravel 

 stone, it might make a continuous line in the clay, as shown in 

 Plate XLII. This line would take any direction, depending upon the 

 eddies in the water; it would even double upon itself and the tracks 

 would cross. When the tide was receding the movements were 

 often more linear and the trails left were much straighter. Those 

 photographed were obtained after the tide had receded and the 

 bunches were left stranded. The Ulva enteromorpha grows in tufts 

 of some six to eight inches high, attached to stones and pebbles 

 which serve to anchor it. As the plant increases in size, the flotation 

 of the bushy fronds becomes, in moving water, sufficiently strong to 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 545 



move the small pebbles, up to three-quarters of an inch in diameter, 

 for instance. Where these are caught by the incoming tide they 

 are carried along in the water at a rate that depends upon the drag 

 of the anchor. Observations were made upon them in water varying 

 from six to ten inches deep, by wading out on the flats from the 

 shore, and in deeper water by observing the motion from a boat. 

 The fronds of the Ulva stood upright from the anchoring pebble 

 and waved back and forth with the passage of the wind waves. 

 But as the fronds are exceedingly flexuous, the anchor was not 

 lifted from the bottom, as a rule, by the passage of a wave; the 

 frond simply expanded and collapsed, or rose and fell, with the up 

 and down movement of the surface of the water; and as far as the 

 graving action of the pebble was concerned, it was continuous or 

 nearly so. The trails made were more or less deeply impressed 

 according as the muddy surface was more or less yielding, and also 

 according as the anchor was pressing with full force or with a dimin- 

 ished pressure, as the frond of the Ulva was extended or collapsed 

 by the movement of the waves. In some cases the trails were made 

 by the advancing plant being dragged towards shore by the incoming 

 tide, in other cases by the receding tide carrying it away from shore. 



The form of the trail that was left depended upon the shape of 

 the pebble. Thus some were simply single concave grooves, the 

 sides being raised a little above the general surface of the mud, and 

 these look like what are called moUuscan or annelid trails in such 

 structures when found fossil. They are very much like Hitchcock's 

 Unisulcus. Others were double grooves, when the shape of the 

 anchoring pebble was more irregular or when it had a groove in its 

 lower side. These were like Hitchcock's, Bisulcus. It should be 

 borne in mind that the Ulva is attached to one point on the anchoring 

 pebble, and hence that one side of the pebble is always uppermost, 

 so that the surface which makes the impressions is always the same 

 one. 



Hitchcock's genus Ptilichnus is represented by a track which 

 consists of a very irregular series of markings that recur at regular 

 intervals, but that could not be made by the feet or other appendages 

 of passing animals. He assigns them to markings made by fishes. 

 Of these tracks he describes several species, distinguished by the 

 varying forms of the tracks. Such are Ptilichnus anomalus, P. 

 pectinatus, P. hydrodromus, etc. Another such track is what Hitch- 

 cock calls Saltator, under the impression that the regularly recurring 

 impressions were made by some leaping animal. All of these, 




M6 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [NoV., 



which will be found figured in the "Ichnology," are very similar to 

 the trails left by a piece of seaweed rolled along the bottom by the 

 advancing or receding tide. I watched this movement of tufts of 

 Fucus vesciculosus L., many times and the impressions formed 

 certainly bear a very close resemblance to many of the forms de- 

 scribed and figured by Hitchcock. 



These tufts are the ends of fronds, pieces varying from four or 

 five inches up to eight or ten inches in length, more or less conical 

 in general outline and in all cases broader at the outer end of the 

 frond than at the stem end. The advancing tide rolls them over and 

 over, generally more or less in a curved line, due to the somewhat 

 conical or pear shape of the tuft. The stem end thus touches from 

 time to time and makes a series of irregular impressions, somewhat 

 removed from the main line of impressions of the fruiting ends of 

 the frond. The marks made by the stem are deeper, but smaller 

 than those made by the fruiting terminations of the branches 

 These fruiting tips of the branches are bifid or trifid as well as simple,, 

 conical, bladder-like expansions and they sometimes make impres- 

 sions that simulate the tracks of three-toed reptiles or other animal 

 tracks. They look, however, as though only one foot were touching, 

 as they all point in one way. In the more globular tufts of the 

 weed the rolling motion is more irregular and the stem does not 

 always point in one direction, but the bunch may turn over, end for 

 end, occasionally; then the arrangement of the series of impressions 

 formed will often suddenly reverse right arid left. In nearly all cases 

 where these impressions were seen they were observed under water 

 only, the weed drifting in from the channel off Dove Point, and 

 hence no photographs were obtained. Hitchcock's Ptilichnus 

 anomalus trails, as well as most of the impressions that he calls 

 Mnigmichnus multiformis, probably had some such origin as that 

 indicated above. 



A small branching twig of, say, a spruce or cedar would make a 

 trail like the Saltator impression which he describes, if it were rolling 

 over and over on the bottom under the influence of the advancing 

 or receding tide. A piece of a branch or a trunk, without notable 

 projections, being advanced along the bottom by rolling under the 

 influence of the rising tide, would make an impression like Hitchcock's 

 figure of ^nigmichnus multiformis given on Plate XIV of the "Sup- 

 plement to the Ichnology of New England." This slab was 3| feet 

 by 4| feet. The slab is crossed by "numerous rows of impressions, 

 certainly not less than thirty-five, the impressions are circular as 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 547 



though made by a punch, or they are elongated or even hnear." 

 There are also "linear furrows nearly parallel to the other impressions, 

 but crossing at a small angle," which were made, no doubt, by some 

 other object subsequently, perhaps during a different tide. 



He also describes another slab with ^nigmichnus on which were 

 "a trifid arrangement of somewhat triangular toes with two dents 

 behind and two or three on one side, and this arrangement is repeated 

 about once in an inch. The axis of the foot in this case is turned 

 aside from the line of direction as much as 30°, but I cannot decide 

 in which direction the animal was moving nor find a series of impres- 

 sions to the right or left corresponding to this one." 



This description (and the figure on Plate I, "Supplement") 

 represent very exactly the kind of impressions made by a rolling 

 piece of Fucus. Thus only the feet on one side of the hypothetical 

 animal make any impression, or else it must move sidewise, but the 

 impressions recur at perfectly regular intervals. That is exactly 

 the character of impressions made by an object rolling over the 

 bottom, and it is also the character of the impressions made by the 

 rollers in a print mill manufacturing cotton prints. That the "foot- 

 marks" were all right or all left might have suggested this analogy, 

 if the idea of a rolling object had occurred to Prof. Hitchcock. 



From the foregoing, it is evident that markings closely simulating 

 molluscan and annelid trails may be produced without animal 

 agency, and even such markings as may be mistaken for those made 

 by fishes, crustaceans or reptiles may be similarly produced. 



Explanation of Plates XLI and XLII. 



Plate XLT. — ^Fig. 1. — Rippled surfaces of the Leda clay on the flats northwest 

 of Dove Point, looking westward. 

 Fig. 2. — A nearer view of the erosion ripples on the clay flats, looking east 

 towards Dove Point. 



Plate XLII. — Fig. 1. — Trail made by a pebble attached to a tuft of Ulva entero- 



morpha, and dragged over the bottom. The attached tuft of the Ulva may 



be seen in a collapsed condition at the end of the trail. 

 Fig. 2. — A part of the clay flats, covered with pebbles with their attached 



Ulva tufts, that have left markings by their movement over the bottom. 

 Fig. 3. — A portion of fig. 2, enlarged, showing some of the markings in more 



detail. 




648 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



December 5. 



The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M.D., LL.D., in the Chair. 



Forty-three persons present. 



The death of James W. McAllister, a member, May 28, 1911, 

 was announced. 



The Publication Committee reported the acceptance of a paper, 

 entitled A Monograph of the Procyonidce, by R. W. Shufeldt, M.D., 

 as a contribution to the Journal. 



R. A. F. Penrose, Jr., Chairman of the Committee on the Hayden 

 Memorial Geological Award, reported for the Committee in favor 

 of conferring the medal this year on John Casper Branner, Professor 

 of Geology in Leland Stanford Jr. University. 



On favorable report of the Council the award was made as recom- 

 mended by the Committee. 



Dr. John Casper Branner was born at New Market, Tenn., July 4, 1850. 

 He was educated at Maryville College, Tenn., and at Cornell University, New 

 York, graduating from Cornell in 1874 with the degree of B.S. In 1885 he 

 received the degree of Ph.D. from the University of Indiana, and in 1897 the 

 degree of LL.D. from the University of Arkansas. 



br. Branner went to Brazil in 1874 and was for some years a geologist on the 

 Imperial Geological Commission of that country, which was then under the 

 directorship of Professor Hartt. In 1878 and 1879 he was assistant engineer 

 and interpreter for the S. Cyriaco Mining Company, in the State of Minas Geraes. 

 In 1880 to 1881 he carried on special botanical investigations in Brazil, and in 1882 

 to 1883 he was agent there of the United States Department of Agriculture. 



Dr. Branner then returned to the United States. He has since made many 

 trips to Brazil and elsewhere in South America, his geological and other scientific 

 work there being well known to scientists. His special fields of operation in 

 recent years have been in the neighborhood of Rio de Janeiro and thence 

 northward to Bahia and beyond. His work on the stone and coral reefs of the 

 coast, published by the Museum of Comparative Zoology of Harvard Uni- 

 versity, is well known. His investigations of the black diamond fields of Bahia 

 have been productive of most important scientific results, and have shown 

 the source of the diamonds to be in certain rocks, from which they were derived 

 by erosions and buried in the gravels where they now occur. This source of the 

 black diamonds of Bahia had been unknown until Dr. Branner discovered it. 



Among the most important of his recent trips to Brazil was his expedition 

 in 1899 as head of the Branner-Agassiz Expedition. He made other expeditions 

 in 1907 and 1911. Some seventy papers and books on Brazilian geology, with 

 many papers on zoological, botanical and other subjects, have resulted from 

 Dr. Branner's work in that country. He has also published in the Portuguese 

 language a text-book on geology for the use of Brazilian students, and many 

 papers for the benefit of the people of that country, where he is held in the highest 

 regard as a man and a scientist. 



Since his return from Brazil in 1883, Dr. Branner has been active in geological 

 work in the United States. From that year to 1885 he served as topographic 

 geologist on the Geological Survey of Pennsylvania under Professor Lesley; 

 and from 1885 to 1892 he was professor of geology at the University of Indiana. 




1911.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 



549 



From 1887 to 1893 he was State Geologist of Arkansas, in which position his 

 work was of scientific and economic value. About twenty volumes bear wit- 

 ness to the diligence and ability with which he conducted the exploration of a 

 State until then almost unknown in its geological features. Dr. Branner con- 

 tinued the work after the survey had been disbanded, largely at his own expense, 

 and gave his results to the State, to be published by it for the benefit of its people. 

 In 1892 Dr. Branner became professor of geology at Leland Stanford Jr. 

 University, California; in 1898-99 he was acting President, and in 1899 he be- 

 came Vice-President of the institution. He still holds both positions. After 

 the California disaster of 1906, Dr. Branner was appointed by the Governor a 

 member of the committee to investigate the earthquake, and did much valuable 

 work in this connection. 



Mr. Stewardson Brown made a communication on the expedi- 

 tion of Francis E. Bond to Venezuela in the interest of the Academy. 

 (No abstract.) 



Scale Variations in Stilosoma extenuatum (A. E. Brown) .^ — Dr. 

 Henry Tucker remarked that the type had been described as 

 having the prefrontals fused with the internasals; no loreal, or 

 preocular; internasals extend to supralabials, also enter orbit; 

 parietals extend behind posloculars to fifth labial; nostril in the 

 centre of a single scale; labials, six upper, fifth largest; lower 

 five, fourth largest. Three horizontal temporals. Three pairs of 



Type. 



chin shields. Nineteen rows of smooth lozenge-shaped dorsal scales. 

 Anal entire; body slender; tail short; head not distinct; rostral 

 prominent; ventrals, 223 to 260; subcaudals, thirty-three to forty- 

 four pairs; teeth, ten upper, twelve lower, all smooth; pupil round. 

 Color, silvery-gray, with sixty to seventj'^ irregular dark brown 

 dorsal blotches with narrow blackish borders, ten to twelve on tail; 

 interspaces mottled with pale red ; belly blotched with black, which 

 extends on sides and often breaks, so forming lateral spots; the 

 scales on sides are finely spotted with black; a dark patch on parie- 

 tals; a small one on each side of neck; a dark postocular streak; 

 fore part of chin and head peppered with black. 



The following descriptions are based on six hitherto undescribed 

 specimens from Lake Kerr and Norwalk, Marion County, Fla., 

 in the collection of the late Dr. Arthur E. Brown. Color scheme in 

 all, same as in the type. Scales smooth, in nineteen dorsal rows; 



lA. E. Brown, Proc. Acid. Nat. Sd. Phila., 1890, p. 199. 




550 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



head not distinct, smaller than thickest part of body. Ventrals 

 two hundred and thirty to two hundred and sixty. Anal entire; 

 subcaudals forty to forty-six pairs; tail about one-fifteenth of entire 

 length. Individually, the head scaleation of each specimen varies 

 from the type, as follows: 



No. 1. Prefrontals fused with internasals, in contact with second 

 labial, separated from orbit by a single preocular; parietals extend 

 behind postoculars to fifth labial, separated from sixth by first 

 temporal; chin shields two pairs. 



No. 2. Prefrontals two, not fused with internasals, laterally in 

 contact with second labial, separated from orbit by a single preocular; 

 right parietal in slight contact with fifth labial behind orbit, left 

 completely separated by first temporal. 



No. 3. Prefrontals two, not fused with internasals, laterally in contact 

 with second labial, separated from orbit by a single preocular; parietals 

 in contact with fifth labial behind orbit; chin shields two pairs. 

 ' No. 4. Juvenile, size small. Right prefrontal partly fused with 

 internasal, both in contact with seconds labial, separated from orbit 

 by a single preocular; parietals in contact with fifth labial behind 

 orbit; chin shields three pairs. 



No. 5. Juvenile, small size. Both prefrontals fused with inter- 

 nasals, in contact with second labial, entering orbit on left side, 

 separated on right by a single preocular; parietals in contact with 

 fifth labial behind orbit; chin shields three pairs. 



No. 6. Juvenile, small size. Prefrontals fused with internasals, 

 in contact with second labial, separated from orbit by a small pre- 

 ocular; parietals in contact with fifth labial behind the eye; chin 

 shields two pairs. 



The preocular is absent and the anterior orbital boundary is 

 formed by the fused internasal-prefrontal in the type and one 

 specimen only of ten in the Academy's collection, so that the chief 

 point of diagnosis in this variety is the replacement of the loreal 

 by either the downward curving of the normal prefrontal or the 

 fused prefrontal-internasal, plus the postocular contact of the 

 parietals with the fifth labials. 



The color scheme strongly suggests that this reptile is derived 

 from some member of the Ophiholus group, as the marking and color 

 are almost identically those of Ophiholus calligaster, but the fused 

 and unstable scaleation of the head are evidence of degeneration and 

 make it impossible to determine the probable line of descent. 



December 19. 

 The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M.D., LL.D., in the Chair. 

 Twenty-eight persons present. 



The death of Sir Joseph Hooker, a Correspondent, December 11, 

 1911, was announced. 

 The following were ordered to be published : 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 551 



NOTES ON SALMONOID AND BELATED FISHES 

 BY HENRY W. FOWLER. 



The Salmonoidea and Iniomi in the collection of the Academy 

 -of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia are listed in this paper, as many 

 have not been recorded before or show interesting localities in their 

 ■distribution. Three species, apparently new, are described. 



SALMONIDiE 

 "Coregonus quadrilateralis Richardson. 



One from "Lake Superior." 

 Coregonus fera (Jurine). 



One labeled "Italy," identified by Bonaparte with this species, 

 may have been taken in the Swiss lakes?. 



Coregonus maraenula albellus (Fatio). 



Two from Lake Lucerne. One without data labeled "Italy" 

 ^Bonaparte) may have been taken in Switzerland ?. 



Coregonus wartmanni (Bloch). 



One labeled "Italy" (Bonaparte) probably from Switzerland?. 

 <]loregonu8 wartmanni nobilis (Haack). 



Two from Lake Lucerne. 

 Coregonus clupeaformis (Mitchill). 



One from Lake Champlain and three others from Lake Superior, 

 Lake Michigan and Georgian Bay, respectively. 



Coregonus albns Le Sueur. 



I examined a number at Erie, Pa., taken in Lake Erie during 

 July of 1907. One now in the Academy. 



Leuciohthys artedi (Le Sueur). 



Abundant at Erie, Pa., in Lake Erie in July, 1907, where I 

 examined many. Several were secured and are now in the Acad- 

 emy. Four small examples without data and an adult from Lake 

 George. 



Leuciohthys eriensis (Jordan and Evermann). 



One from Lake Superior at Port Arthur, which agrees with 



-A.^*^ 




552 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC.^ 



the original account. This species was described from the north 

 shore of Lake Erie, and said to be occasional in Lake Huron, but 

 unknown in Lake Superior. Its equal jaws seem to be a good 

 character. 



Leucichthys prognathus (H. M. Smith). 

 One from Milwaukee, Wis. 



Lenciohthys nigripinnis (Milner). 



One from Milwaukee, Wis. 



Leucichthys alhula (Linnseus). 



One labeled "France" most likely from Scandinavia. 

 Oncorhynchus kisutch (Walbaum). 



Four from Alaska, one from the Frazer River in British Columbia, 

 and six from Osatsuba in Japan. 



Oncorhynchus tschawytscha (Walbaum). 



Two probably from the Columbia River?, another from the 

 McCloud River in California, and one from Silver Lake Camp in 

 Maine (introduced). 

 Oncorhynchus nerka (Walbaum). 



One from Alaska and one from Kootenay Lake at Nelson in 

 British Columbia. 



Salmo salar Linnseus. 



Three labeled "Europe," two without data, and two from the 

 St. Croix River in Maine. 



Salmo salar lacustris (Linnaeus). 



Two from Italy, according to the Bonaparte Catalogue "lago 

 Maggio." 



Salmo eriox Linnseus. 



Five from Italy, of which one dried A large one from Tasmania 

 (introduced) . 



Salmo fario Linnseus. 



A number of examples from France, Switzerland and Italy, others 

 labeled "Europe." One from Lake Lucerne. 



Salmo perryi Brevoort. 



One from Nikko, Japan, and in each gill-opening a number of 

 parasitic Crustacea. 



Salmo mykiss Walbaum 



One from Alaska. 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 553 



Salmo olarkii Richardson. 



One from Puget Sound. 



Salmo clarkii lewisi (Girard). 



Salmo carinatus Cope, Rep. Geol. Surv. Hayden, 1871, p. 471. Locality 

 unknown, perhaps Yellowstone Geyser basin. 



Nos. 7,835 and 7,836, A. N. S. P., cotypes of 8. carinatus Cope. 

 Also example with deformed snout probably this species. 



Salmo olarkii virginalis (Girard). 



One labeled ''Buffalo Co., California," likely an error?. 



Salmo clarkii pleuritious (Cope). 



Salmo pleuriticus Cope, Rep. Geol. Surv. Hayden, 1871, p. 471. Heads 

 of Green River, Medicine Lodge Creek, Idaho. The Junction, Montana. 



No. 16,472, A. N. S. P., cotype ? of S. pleuriticus Cope. 



Salmo olarkii stomias (Cope). 



Salmo (Salar) stomias Cope, Rep. Geol. Surv. Hayden, 1870, p. 433. Fort 

 Riley, Kansas. 



Nos. 7,825 and 7,826, A. N. S. P., cotypes of S. (S.) stomias Cope. 



One probably from Kansas? and one from the North Fork of 

 Saint Vrain Creek in the S. Platte River basin, Boulder County, 

 Colo. Also three small ones from Ute Creek at Camp Garlan in 

 the Canadian River basin in Union? County, N. Mex. 



Salmo rivularis Ayres 



One from the Chewauca River, Oregon. 



Salmo irideus Gibbons. 



One from the Russian River, California. 

 Salmo irideus gilberti (Jordan). 



Two from the Kern River and one from Kern Lake, California. 



Salmo irideus roosevelti (Evermann). 



Salmo roosevelti Evermann, Bull. U. S. Bur. Fisher., XXV, 1905, p. 26, 

 PI. 1. Volacano Creek, California. 



No. 38,036, A. N. S. P., paratype of S. roosevelti Evermann. 



Salmo irideus whitei (Evermann). 



Salmo whitei Evermann, Bull. U. S. Bur. Fisher., XXV, 1905, p. 20, 

 PI. 16. Coyote Creek, California. 



Nos. 38,037 to 38,039, A. N. S. P., paratypes of S. whitei Evermann. 



Salmo irideus shasta (Jordan). 



One from the Middle Fork of the Tule River and another from 

 the McCloud River, California. 

 Salmo irideus agua-bonita (Jordan). 



One from the South Fork of the Kern River, California. 




554 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [DeC.,. 



Huoho hucho (Linnaeus). 



One labeled "Europe." 



Huoho blaokistoni (Hilgendorf). 



One from the Ishikari River near Sapporo, Japan. 

 Salvelinus fontinalis (Mitchill). 



I have examined many examples from: ? young from Mar- 

 guerita River, lower Canada; Pierce Pond in Somerset County, 

 Me.; Lake George, N. Y. ; Morris County, N. J.; Port Kennedy, 

 liOyalsock Creek, Newton Hamilton, Newgarden, Bridgeport, Indiana 

 County and Warren County in Pa. ; head of the James River, Little 

 Stony Creek and Walker's Creek, Va.; Lake Superior; Milwaukee, 

 Wis. Besides these two others, of which one dried. 



Salvelinus malma (Walbaum). 



Salmo tudes Cope, Proc. Amer. Philos. Soc, XIII, 1873, p. 24. Captain's. 

 Harbor, Unalaska. 



Nos. 7,847 and 7,848, cotypes of S. tudes Cope. 



Another obtained by Dr. Benjamin Sharp on June 11, 1895, at 

 the same locality, two from St. Paul on Kadiak Island, badly pre- 

 served, and one from "Alaska." 



Salvelinus alpinus umbla (Linnseus). 



One from Italy, one from France and one without data a dried 

 skin. 



Salvelinus alpinus willughbii (Gunther). 



One from Lake Windermere. 



Salvelinus alpinus perisii (Gunther). 



One from Wales. 



Salvelinus alpinus killinensis (Gunther). 



Scotland, one example. 



Salvelinus alpinus stagnalis (Fabricius). 



One from Holstensborg and another from Godhavn,[_Greenland.~* 



Salvelinus oquassa (Girard). 



One from the Rangeley Lakes in Maine, one_from2New York and 

 another without data. 



Salvelinus oquassa marstoni (Garman). 



One from Lake Cassette, Riwouski in Quebec, Can. 



Cristivomer namayousli (Walbaum). 



Four from Wilwaukee, Wis. 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 555 



Plecoglossus altivelis Schlegel. 



Nine from Morioka, one from Tsuruga and four from Kurume, 

 Japan. 



THYMALIilD^. 



Thymallus thymallus (Linnieus). 



Two from Italy and one from France. 



Thymallus tricolor Cope. 



Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1865, p. 80. Au Sable River, Michigan. 



No. 7,796, A. N. S. P., type. 



Another from the Au Sable River and a dry skin from Michigan. 



ARGENTINID^. 

 Mallotus villosus (MuUer). 



Two from Groswater Bay, Labrador; one from Wood's Holl in 

 Mass., and three labeled "North America." 

 Thaleichthys paoificus (Richardson). 



One from the Frazer River in British Columbia and another from 

 the Naas River in Oregon. 



Osmerus eperlanus Linnaeus. 



Osmerus sergenti Norris, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1868, p. 95. Schuyl- 

 kill River, Philadelphia. 



Nos. 7,751 to 7,753, A. N. S. P., cotypes of 0. sergenti Norris. 



Two examples from France do not differ in any way from American 

 specimens from: Mt. Desert, Me.; Boston, Nahant and Wood's 

 Holl, Mass.; Long Island, N. Y.; Jersey City, the Delaware and 

 Raritan Rivers, N. J. The alleged greater number of scales for the 

 latter, also the supposed shorter gill-rakers and weaker teeth are 

 evidently fallacious. I shall therefore be obliged to follow Smitt 

 in allowing them identical. 



Osmerus thaleichthys Ayres. 



One from Monterey, Cal. 

 Mesopus pretiosus (Girard). 



One from Puget Sound. 



Mesopus olidus (Pallas). 



Twenty-eight from Aomori, Japan. Jordan and Snyder state 

 that M. japonicus (Brevoort) differs in having the ventral inserted 

 below the second or third dorsal ray, D. 10 and A. 12 or 13. All 

 of these characters are found in at least some of my examples of the 

 present species, none of which are over 2| inches, and in many cases 

 the afore-mentioned characters are found in combination with those 

 of undoubted examples of M. olidus. 




556 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



Argentina sphyrsena Linnaeus. 

 Seven from Italy. 



MIOROSTOMID^. 

 Microstoma microstoma (Risso). 

 Four from Italy. 



SALANGID^. 

 Salanz hyalooranius J. F. Abbott. 



Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XXIII, 1901, p. 490, fig. Tien Tsin, China. 

 Nos. 26,800 to 26,840, A. N. S. P., paratypes. 



STOMIATID^. 

 Stomias bonapartei sp. nov. Fig. l. 



Stomias barbatus Bonaparte, Icon. Faun. Ital., Pe.sc. Ill, pt. 1, XXX, 1841, 

 descr., PI. fig. 3. Sicily. Probably not of Cuvier. 



Head 7|; depth about 9; D. iii, 9?; A. iii, 14; P. i, 6?; V. i, 5; 

 scales (according to pockets) about 77 in lateral series to caudal 

 base; about 8? scales (pockets) in transverse series, at centre of 

 abdomen; about 70? vertebrae according to myocommas; head 

 width about 2j its length; head depth at occiput 1^; snout 4f in 

 head measured from upper jaw tip; eye 4; maxillary lyV; inter- 

 orbital 4; lower caudal lobe 1^; pectoral 2^?; ventral 2^?; front 

 longest anal ray 2^?. 



Body very elongated, greatly compressed, edges apparently 

 somewhat trenchant?, and sides flattened. Trunk constricted at 

 neck, abdomen with swollen appearance and thus forming greatest 

 depth. Caudal peduncle compressed, its least depth about 2 in its 

 length. 



Head compressed, deep, upper profile horizontal and a little 

 convex, lower more inclined and a little convex, sides flattened. 

 Snout short, evidently with surface convex, length about f its width. 

 Eye rounded, near first third in head close to upper profile. Maxil- 

 lary slender, extends far back nearly to hind preopercle edge. Pre- 

 maxillary toothed, with five large slender curved thin fangs, second 

 fang longest and fourth larger than others. Last | of lower maxillary 

 edge finely toothed, denticles very small, of about uniform size, and 

 all directed posteriorly. On each side of vomer a large slender sharp 

 fang, and behind each also another similar pair, but so approximated 

 that their tips cross. Still posterior and external to latter also 

 another shorter fang, similarly directed, though each one much 

 smaller. Along mandible edges 9 + 8 fangs, as 2 small ones at each 

 side of symphysis, then larger curved fang, then little shorter 




1911.1 



NATURAL SCIEXCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



557 



curved fang, alternately followed by short curved fang, then larger 

 fang, then (asymmetrical on left side 2) small tooth, finally still 

 smaller one. Tongue not differentiated from base of hyoid arch. 

 Mandible with rami low, well curved up in front where also tapering 

 in thickness, and extended back behind as short angular process. 

 Nostrils close before eye?. Interorbital broad, slightly convex. 

 Preopercle edge curved back convexly. Opercle small, not quite 

 large as eye. 



Gill-opening forward before eye, about midway in snout. Rakers 

 conic, strong, sharp-pointed, only on ceratobranchial, as 9 graduated 



Fig. 1. — Stomias bonapartei Fowler. Type. 



denticles, anteriorly largest, of which first a cluster of 4 graduated 

 cusps with last longest and curved back, second of 2 cusps with first 

 longer and curved forward, third of 2 cusps with second longer and 

 curved back, and third smaller, of 3 graduated cusps with last 

 longest, though all directed back. Largest rakers about size of 

 symphyseal teeth. Filaments about equal longest rakers. Pseudo- 

 branchiae absent. Isthmus long, slender, narrowly constricted. 

 Branchiostegals 17 each side, short, slender, of about uniform length, 

 except shorter or graduated down at each end of hyoid arch. 



Scales deciduous? (entirely fallen from my example), but appar- 

 37 




558 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



ently of hexagonal shape, thin and smooth, disposed in even longitu- 

 dinal series, of nearly uniform size and but little crowded on caudal 

 peduncle. Head, caudal and fins naked. Long hyoid flattened 

 filament equal to about 1^ times head in length, slightly expanded 

 at end within which a photophore, and terminated by 3 short thin 

 filaments, longest of which not quite equal to eye. Two smaller 

 photophores at lower basal surface and another about first fourth 

 in length of hyoid filament. Two? (at least one) rather large 

 photophores, their diameter less than 4 in eye, just below and close 

 to latter. Behind eye and just above maxillary concurrently on 

 cheek, 2 rows of quite small photophores, these continued up con- 

 currently with preopercle edge to supra-postocular region. Within 

 lower triangle of cheek also numerous small photophores, like those 

 just described, though becoming sparse toward eye. Along outer 

 mandibular edge series of small photophores where anteriorly they 

 are interrupted by fangs. Within branchiostegal membrane between 

 bases of each branchiostegal ray, a large photophore, though none 

 so large as infraorbital. Three similar photophores at lower posterior 

 articulation of opercle. About 10 pairs of similar large photophores 

 along isthmus. Along ventral edge of entire trunk length 2 rows 

 of large photophores, apparently 1 in centre of each scale, and extend- 

 ing back to caudal base, though only a single series after ventrals 

 and along lower caudal peduncle surface. Each scale (according 

 to pocket) with at least 1 small photophore medianly on dorsal 

 region, though below vertebral axis anteriorly on costal region each 

 scale with a median cluster of at least 4 minute photophores. Pos- 

 teriorly on body laterally, as above ventral base cluster reduced 

 to 3 photophores and in region above anal only 2 photophores. 

 Along side of caudal peduncle almost all photophores single. Over 

 abdominal scales very numerous small photophores, mostly arranged 

 as marginal series, or at least as reticulations, around larger 

 photophores. 



Dorsal origin a trifle before last seventh in space between caudal 

 base and mandible tip, base apparently little shorter than that of 

 anal (fin damaged). Anal inserted apparently before dorsal origin, 

 rays graduated up to fourth, after which all a little shorter (damaged). 

 Caudal distinctly forked nearly a third its length, and lobes appar- 

 ently pointed sharply. Pectoral short (damaged), inserted low. 

 Ventral inserted about last third in space between pectoral origin 

 and caudal base, fin short (damaged). Vent apparently close 

 before anal. 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 559 



Color in alcohol pale or dull brownish, largely uniform, photophores 

 all paler or whitish. Abdominal edge and isthmus all dusky or 

 blackish, photophores conspicuously white with black pigment 

 about their edges. All photophores with deep brown edges. Fins 

 pale or whitish-brown. Iris slaty. 



Length 6f inches. 



Type, No. 7,955, A. N. S. P. Italy. C. L. Bonaparte, No. 349. 

 From Dr. T. B. Wilson. 



The above-described example apparently represents a rare species 

 entirely distinct from any in the genus Stomias. Several authors^ 

 have recently^ confounded it with Stomias boa (Risso). It differs 

 from that species, however, in many respects. *S. boa is said to have 

 the upper jaw furnished with 8 separated unequal curved teeth, and 

 those on the premaxillaries small. It is also said to have the mandi- 

 ble well protruded and furnished with 14 curved teeth, and the 

 ventrals very long and filiform. Risso's rude figure^ shows them 

 about the last third in the space between the hind eye edge and the 

 caudal base, and if depressible but little short of the anal origin. 

 Risso also shows the caudal greatly forked, no barbel, and only 

 about 3 teeth in each jaw. Valenciennes, in giving a detailed account^ 

 of the Esox boa Risso, shows the type of Cuvier's genus Stomias to 

 have been based on Risso's specimen. Stomias barbatus Cuvier^ 

 was surely an unsatisfactory species, distinguished from S. boa by 

 the supposed difference in having a hyoid barbel or filament, the 

 latter having been entirelj^ overlooked in S. boa. Cuvier's account 

 is thus very incomplete and unsatisfactory, merely a line of valueless 

 diagnosis, and must therefore be submerged in the synonymy of 

 Esox boa Risso. For these reasons I have been obliged to rename 

 the present species. Giinther very properly allowed the Bonaparte 

 species as distinct, and the subsequent confusion with S. boa (Risso) 

 may have been due to Moreau's remarks.® 



I may here note that Stomias dates from Oken,^ Cuvier's account* 

 being in the vernacular, and the type Esox boa Risso. 



The accompanying figure is somewhat restored, and for this 

 allowance must be made. 



(Named for Charles Lucien Bonaparte.) 



> Ocean. Ich., 1895, p. 106, PI. 34, fig. 28. 



* Wiss. Ergeb. Deutsch. Tiefa. Ex., XV, 1906, p. 49. 

 ^Hist. Nat. Eur. Mcr., Ill, 1826, p. 440, PI. 16, fig. 40. 



* Hist. Nat. Poiss., XVIII, 1846, p. 273, PI. 545. 



* Regne Animal, Ed. 2, II, 1829, pp. 283, 284. 



* Hist. Nat. Poiss. France, III, 1881, p. 490. 

 ^ Isis, 1817, p. 1183. 



* Regne Animal, II, 1817, p. 184. 




560 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DcC. 



OHAUIilODONTID^. 

 Chauliodus sloani Schneider. 



Head 5; depth (of head) about 7; depth (at dorsal origin) about 

 13; D. 6; A, 12; P. 15; V. i, 5; scales about 52 (according to pockets 

 and pigment spots) in median lateral series; about 7 scales in trans- 

 verse series (pockets) at dorsal origin; about 5 scales in transverse 

 series between adipose dorsal origin and that of anal (pockets 

 counted); head width about 3 in its length; head depth at occiput 

 about 1|; mandible 1|; rayed dorsal base 3; anal base 2; lower 

 caudal lobe (damaged) about If?; pectoral (damaged) about 

 H?; snout 4 in head measured from upper jaw tip; eye 4; maxil- 

 lary lyV; interorbital 43 ; anterior mandibular fang If. 



Body greatlj'^ elongated, slender, tapering evenly back to caudal 

 base from head, at which point greatest depth, sides compressed 

 and edges rounded. Caudal peduncle slender, compressed, its least 

 depth 2f its length. 



Head compressed, deep, obtuse in front, flattened sides not con- 

 verging above or below, upper profile a little convex and lower nearly 

 horizontal. Snout short, ending in short obtuse constricted process, 

 about broad as long. Eye circular, anterior about first third in 

 head length near upper profile, which deeply concave in course just 

 before eye. Mouth very large, not completely closing, with upper 

 jaw edge well inclined and lower jaw edge nearly horizontal. On 

 each side of upper jaw anteriorly, or in premaxillary, first tooth 

 slender, simple, thin, slightly curved and awl-shaped. Second 

 tooth longer and stouter with an obsolete terminal barb, third 

 similar to second, but shorter than first, and fourth like third only 

 trifle longer, but not long as first. Maxillary with a series of com- 

 pressed short attenuated teeth along lower edge, graduated to first 

 third, after which of about uniform length. Maxillary extends 

 obliquely down straight to mandible articulation or hind preopercle 

 edge. Mandible with 7 pairs of large canines, first enormous, 

 slender, curved slightly back, and when mouth closes extend up along 

 each side of snout well above upper eye edge, tip of each with small 

 barb behind. Second pair simple and slender, about | length of 

 first. Third trifle curved back at tip, about half length of first, 

 others all graduated down smaller than second and similar. In 

 upper jaw on left side directly after base of first canine another, 

 but depressible transversely across roof of upper jaw. A similar 

 and slightly longer one behind base of second right canine. Each 

 palatine with 7 short conic straight teeth, first about | length of 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 561 



first premaxillary fang, and others all graduated down till minute. 

 No other teeth on roof of mouth. Tongue small, bony, not free, 

 with median osseous keel. Nostril simple pore close before front 

 orbital edge. Mandible large, greatly compressed, rami not elevated 

 in mouth, conic process at symphysis, and slight flange along lower 

 external edge of each branch. Interorbital depressed, and like rest 

 of cranium bones thin. As viewed from above, brain easily dis- 

 tinguished through thin cranial walls. Along each side of head 

 above an osseous keel. Opercle narrow, deep. Subopercle smaller 

 than eye. Hind preopercle edge slightly convex, inclined down, 

 behind. 



Gill-opening forward about opposite first third in snout. Rakers 

 about 4 + 15 minute firm pointed denticles along inner edge of 

 gill-arch. Filaments If in eye. No pseudobranchiae. Branchios- 

 tegals about twenty each side, mostly uniform, short, slender, only 

 little shorter each end. Isthmus long, slender, compressed narrowly 

 and scarcely tapering back behind. 



Scales small, thin, smooth, mostly all fallen, and now distinguished 

 only from pockets as apparently of mostly uniform size and disposed 

 in several even longitudinal series. Head and fins entirely naked. 

 A single crescentic series of small infraorbital photophores, first 

 largest and begins in small dark pigment blotch opposite front edge 

 of eye, and entire series close to eye. Below this directly opposite 

 eye centre close to maxillary edge a rather large and conspicuous 

 photophore. Along outer surface of maxillary medianly and con- 

 tinued well down its course a single series of small photophores, 

 anteriorly quite small and enlarged a little posteriorly. In lower 

 corner of cheek a series of 5 photophores, and opposite just behind 

 preopercle edge another photophore. Behind upper edge of pre- 

 opercle articulation a large photophore, and still another at lower 

 edge of subopercle. A rather large photophore between base of 

 each branchiostegal ray on branchiostegal membrane. On inner 

 surface of preopercle, within gill-opening, a series of small photo- 

 phores close together. Photophores from isthmus to pectoral 11, 

 from pectoral to ventral 19, from ventral to anal 25, from anal to 

 caudal 10. Abdominal photophores as double median row, and 

 another row each side, preventral 19, postventral 26, though median 

 double row with series very close. Upper row well separated and 

 along parallel in space below, or between it and lower series, a parallel 

 series of numerous minute or close-set photophores. This series 

 disappears at anal, likewise median double series. Along anal base 




562 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



each side a series of about 12 rather small photophores. On lower 

 caudal peduncle surface a series of minute photophores. On pre- 

 dorsal region of trunk a pair of minute photophores, close together 

 medianly within each scale pocket. On rest of trunk usually a 

 single minute median photophore, though within median lateral 

 series, apparently 2 sometimes, and some of pockets medianly along 

 caudal peduncle sides even with a cluster of 3. At base of lower 

 caudal lobe medianly 3 small photophores in a series. No evidence 

 of 1. 1. About 6 or more photophores in row medianly a little anterior 

 on inner branchiostegal membrane. 



Dorsal origin inserted about first | in head and trunk length, 

 base well elevated, apparently no small anterior rudimentary rays, 

 first ray very long, slender, filamentous and depressible a little 

 beyond ventral origin, other rays all much shorter and graduated 

 well down. Elongated dorsal ray about 2^ to caudal base?. Oppo- 

 site middle of anal base a thin moderately long adipose fin, its length 

 about If eye-diameters. Caudal well forked or emarginate (dam- 

 aged), and lobes apparently equal. Anal with base produced or 

 elevated, fin inserted near last fourth in space between its origin 

 and head, first ray apparently longest, others all graduated down. 

 Pectoral with its base but slightly inclined, broad, and fin directed 

 obliquely up posteriorly (damaged), and apparently reaching a 

 little beyond dorsal origin. Ventral inserted near first third in 

 space between pectoral origin and caudal base, fin long (damaged), 

 rays apparently graduated anteriorly to middle, or longest, though 

 last filamentous and depressible | to anal origin. Vent close before 

 anal, not opening from elevated anal base, but from abdominal 

 surface. 



Color in alcohol largely faded dull or pale brown, nearly uniform, 

 except blackish of belly or under surface. Photophores each with a 

 little brownish or dusky pigment. Iris pale slaty. 



Length 4| inches (caudal tip damaged). 



Italy (C. L. Bonaparte No. 348). From Dr. T. B. Wilson. I 

 extracted a scopelid about an inch long from this example. 



Head about 6^; head depth about 6|; D. 7; A.?; P. 13; V. 7. 

 Teeth in premaxillary differ a little from those in above example 

 in having an accessory fang close, similar, or very little shorter, 

 beginning at base of second fang on left side. Base of second 

 right premaxillary fang short, and similar to one depressible from 

 base of first premaxillary fang, this latter of course transversely 

 across roof of mouth. Also small similar accessory fang close behind 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 563 



base of third right premaxillary fang. On each premaxillary on 

 outer surface and outwardly incUned, about midway between second 

 and third normal erect fangs a short slender conic tooth. Still 

 another posterior, or about opposite base of accessory fang to third 

 erect normal fang. Left mandibular ramus with short accessory 

 conic cusp just behind each tooth, except first, and last teeth as 3 

 small short cusps. Each palatine with 6 conic erect teeth anterior, 

 largest about ^ length of longest maxillary cusp, and others all 

 graduated down smaller. Branchiostegals 20 each side. Photo- 

 phores from isthmus to hind pectoral base 12, from latter to ventral 

 origin 17, from latter to anal 24, from anal origin to caudal base 12. 

 Upper enlarged lateral photophores 18 to ventral, and 26 from 

 ventral to anal. Photophores otherwise as in preceding example- 

 Length (caudal damaged) 7 inches. Same data as above example. 



I have given the above detailed account of these specimens of 

 this scarce deep-sea fish as the striking features of variation in some 

 of the structural characters have not been noted before. My 

 examples show the rudimental median mental barb but slightly, 

 probably because both are in poor preservation. There are several 

 points at variance with Bonaparte's figure,® he showing 62 scales in 

 the lateral line, for instance. 



AULOPID^. 

 Aulopus filamentosus (Bloch). 



Six from Italy. 



Chlorophthalmus agassizi Bonaparte. 



Icon. Faun. Ital., Pesc. Ill, pt. 1, XXVIII, 1840, descr., PI., fig. 2. Italy. 

 No. 7,939 (type) to 7,954, A. N. S. P., cotypes of C. agassizi 

 Bonaparte. 



SYNODONTIDJE. 

 Trachinocephalus myops (Schneider). 



One from Yokohama, Japan. 



Synodus saurus (Linnseus). 



Five from Italy. 



Synodus foetens (Linnseus). 



Many examples, from: Beesley's Point, Longport, Atlantic City 

 and Corson's Inlet, N. J.; Ft. Macon, N. C; S. Carolina; Bayport 

 and Marquesas Keys, Fla. 



^Chauliodus setinoius Bonaparte, Icon. Faun. Ital, Pesc. Ill, pt. 1, XXX, 

 1841, descr., PI., fig. 2. 




564 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



Synodus intermedius (Agassiz). 

 A dry skin from St. Croix, W. I. 



Synodus lucioceps (Ayres). 



One from San Francisco and another likely from California?. 

 Synodus dominicensis sp. nov. Fig.. 2. 



Head 3f ; depth 6i; D. ii, 9, i; A. 10, i; P, i, 11; V. i, 6, i; scales 

 in 1. I, 43+6; 4 scales above 1. 1.; 6 scales below 1. 1.; 14 predorsal 

 scales; head width 2^ its length; head depth at occiput 2f ; mandible 

 If; first branched dorsal ray If; third anal ray 2|; least depth of 

 caudal peduncle 4^; caudal If; pectoral 2^; ventral If; snout 3f 

 in head measured from upper jaw tip; eye 4; premaxillary If; 

 interorbital 4f . 



Fig. 2. — Synodus dominicensis Fowler. Type. 



Body elongated, rather slender, apparently deepest about dorsal 

 origin and though trunk now compressed this may be due to pre- 

 servation?. Trunk seems to taper each end from greatest depth- 

 Caudal peduncle now compressed, least depth half its length. 



Head elongated, depressed above, lower profile little more evenly 

 convex than upper, sides somewhat constricted below. Snout with 

 slight concave profile, depressed, surface generally convex, length 

 about I its basal width. Eye a little ellipsoid, impinging on upper 

 profile, about first f in head. Mouth large, a little inclined. Pre- 

 maxillary slender, extends beyond eye about I eye-diameter, and 

 greatest expansion about 6 in eye. Lips thin, not concealing entirely 

 single series of erect firm sharp compressed elongated premaxillary 

 teeth. Another series of similar longer depressible teeth along 

 upper jaw edge inside maxillary series. Mandibular teeth similar, 

 triserial, outer series smallest and firm, and 2 inner series depressible 

 with innermost largest. Teeth not united across symphysis of 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 565 



either jaw in front. Palatine teeth biserial, inner series elongated, 

 larger and depressible, and outer mostly firm and erect. Otherwise 

 no teeth on mouth roof. A few minute asperities on upper pharyn- 

 geal region. Tongue triangular, free in front, with 2 rows of slightly 

 depressible backwardly directed teeth above, and continued back 

 over surface of basibranchial arch above where much smaller. 

 Mandible surface convex, rami not elevated but tapering to slight 

 fleshy symphyseal knob which projects slightly beyond snout tip. 

 Nostrils together, about last third in snout, and anterior without 

 cutaneous flap. Interorbital slightly concave. Anterosupraorbital 

 ridge well developed. Postorbital quite narrow, surface roughened. 

 Upper naked surface of head behind eyes with few striae and ridges, 

 little roughened. Preopercle ridge curving back and more convexly 

 below, where at least f of eye distant from latter. Opercle width 

 1| its depth. 



Gill-opening extends forward about opposite hind eye edge. 

 Rakers minutely spinescent, numerous, much smaller than filaments. 

 Latter about 3 in eye. Pseudobranchiae a little less than filaments. 

 Isthmus narrowly constricted, trenchant. Branchiostegals 16, 

 slender. 



Scales moderately large, cycloid, well exposed, edges entire, in 

 longitudinal series parallel with 1. 1., smaller on caudal base except 

 elongated flap at middle of each lobe basally, where elongate. Axil- 

 lary ventral flap?, L. 1. complete, straight from shoulder to caudal 

 base medianly, tubes simple, and small exposed crimped scale at 

 base of each scale in course anteriorly. Cheek scales in 4 rows. 

 Opercle, subopercle and interopercle scaly. 



Dorsal origin trifle nearer origin of adipose fin than snout tip, 

 first branched ray longest and depressible behind far as tip of last 

 branched ray at least, fin 3 to caudal base. Adipose fin inserted 

 about midway between depressed dorsal tip and caudal base, fin 

 about 5 to latter. Caudal forked nearly half its length, free pointed 

 tips nearly equal. Anal inserted about mitlway between dorsal 

 base centre and caudal base, third ray longest. Pectoral short, 

 inserted nearly midway between eye centre and dorsal origin, fin 

 reaches ventral origin. Latter inserted about last fourth between 

 pectoral and dorsal origins, fin 1^ to anal, outermost and innermost 

 rays simple, others branched, and membranes of all latter deeply 

 notched externally. Vent close in front of anal. 



Color in alcohol largely faded dull brownish, paler below. Back 

 with traces of fine and slightly darker mottlings made up of small 




566 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



spots and lines. Head brownish above, paler below. Scapular 

 arch above with several faded small dark brown spots. Each dorsal 

 ray with 5 deep brown spots, rest of fin pale. Caudal pale, except 

 about 3 diffuse brownish shades over each lobe along inner edge. 

 Other fins all pale, unicolor. Iris coppery. 



Length SyV inches. 



Type, No. 15,883, A. N. S. P. Santo Domingo, W. I. William 

 M. Gabb. 



This species seems to be closely related to Synodus poeyi Jordan, 

 differing in the longer premaxillary, ventrals reaching less close 

 to vent, smaller pectoral and the barred dorsal fin. 



(Named for Santo Domingo.) 



Synodus dermatogenys sp. nov. Fig. 3. 



Head 3^; depth 6^; D. ii, 10, i; A. 10, i; P. i, 12; V. i, 6, i; 

 scales in 1. 1. 64 + 4; 5 scales above 1. 1.; 7 scales below 1. 1.; 20 

 predorsal scales; head width 2| its length; head depth at occiput 



Fig. 3. — Synodus dermatogenys Fowler. Type. 



2^\; snout 4^; eye 6|; premaxillary 1^; interorbital 6; mandible 

 1^; first branched dorsal ray If; second anal ray 3f; least depth 

 caudal peduncle 6; upper caudal lobe If; pectoral 2|; ventral 1. 



Body elongate, nearly cylindrical or edges all convex, apparently 

 deepest about dorsal origin. Caudal peduncle cylindrical, least 

 depth about 2f its length. 



Head depressed, lower profile more inclined, though slightly less 

 convex than upper, sides converging below. Snout depressed, 

 profile straight, surface convex, length about f its width. Eye a 

 little ellipsoid, impinging on upper profile, about first f in head. 

 Mouth well inclined, with firm jaws, large. Premaxillary broad, 

 extends beyond eye about Ij eye-diameters, greatest median expan- 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 567 



«ion 2 in eye. A series of firm erect sharp-pointed slender teeth 

 •concealed by lip along premaxillary, inside another series of longer 

 depressible ones, all directed at least a little forward. Mandible 

 with similar teeth, outer series smallest, but 2 inner rows both 

 depressible and of these inside row longest of all. Palatines with 

 2 rows of small slender teeth, inner longer and more depressible. 

 Band of teeth in jaws and on palatines not continuous in front. 

 Tongue triangular, rather narrow, free in front, with about 6 rows 

 of irregular slender pointed and depressible teeth. These continued 

 back on basibranchial arch as more narrow band, and all teeth riiuch 

 smaller. Mandible low, surface convex and tip little short of snout 

 tip. Nostrils together, near last fourth in head, anterior with small 

 flap, apparently not fringed. Interorbital well concave. Post- 

 orbital width about 2 in eye. Hind preopercle ridge a little more 

 curved back below, where about an eye-diameter distant from hind 

 premaxillary edge. Opercle width about half its length. Upper 

 suprascapular edge entire. Anterosupraorbital processes well devel- 

 oped. Cranium roughly striate and rugose. 



Gill-opening forward trifle before middle in head. Rakers as 

 minute fine denticles, numerous, sharp. Filaments If in eye. 

 Pseudobranchise little smaller than filaments. Isthmus narrowly 

 constricted, slender. Branchiostegals about 17, slender. 



Scales in even longitudinal series parallel with 1. 1., axis of each 

 M^ell inclined posteriorly, all rather narrowly exposed, edges entire, 

 reduced and smaller on breast and caudal base, latter with 2 elongated 

 flaps, one at base of each lobe. Pointed free slender axillary ventral 

 scaly flap, 3^ in fin. Cheek scales in 7 series, lower hind portion for 

 nearly half its area naked. Opercles below naked, only few scales 

 above. L. 1, complete, sloping gently from shoulder to median 

 caudal base, each scale in its course marked by small accessory 

 basal or crimped scale. 



Dorsal origin a little nearer adipose fin origin than snout tip, 

 first branched ray longest, but only extending about first fourth in 

 length of last, fin 2^ to caudal base. Adipose fin small, inserted 

 about midway between dorsal tip and caudal base, fin 5 to latter. 

 Anal inserted about midway between last dorsal ray base and caudal 

 base, fin If to latter, first branched ray longest, fin edge below 

 notched. Caudal deeply forked, sharp-pointed lobes about equal. 

 Pectoral short, reaches | to dorsal origin. Ventral inserted before 

 pectoral tip, trifle nearer pectoral than dorsal origin, depressed fin 

 If to anal, with innermost branched ray longest. Vent about f an 

 eye-diameter before anal. 




568 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC.^ 



Color in alcohol pale brownish generally, but slightly dark above^ 

 or more grayish. About 6 rather broad deeper gray-brown trans- 

 verse saddles across back, each obscurely edged in front and behind 

 with deeper or more duskj^, and edges of scales within each all 

 darker than ground color. Alternating are 5 paler and narrower 

 similar saddles. Alternating still, between darker and paler saddles, 

 other lighter and more obsolete streaks, mostly broken into obscure 

 pale blotches. All lateral saddles become constricted above 1. L 

 where they appear as hour-glass-shaped ocelli, lower bulge of each 

 continued down as dark streak short distance each side of abdomen. 

 Between are slightly paler streaks continued from palest alternating 

 streaks of back, though these mostly with detached appearance. 

 Jaws with 3 broad deep brown transverse bands, paler below. Head 

 above, and cheek, mottled deep brown. Each dorsal ray with about 

 4 obscure brown blotches. Each caudal lobe with about 5 transverse 

 deep brown bands, narrower at rudimentary rays and posterior 

 wider. Fins otherwise all pale or brownish. Iris brownish. 



Length 5f inches. 



Type, No. 28,130, A. N. S. P. Hawaiian Islands. From the 

 U. S. F. Com. inl901. 



Also Nos. 28,131 to 28,134, paratypes, same data. Head 3^ to 

 31; depth 6y to 7; D. ii, 10, i or ii, 11, i; A. 8, i or 9, i; scales in 

 1. 1. 60 to 62 + 4; usually 6, sometimes 5, scales above 1. 1.; usually 

 6, sometimes 7, scales below 1. 1.; usually 18 predorsal scales, some- 

 times 19 or 20; snout 4^ to 4^ in head; eye 6 to 6f ; maxillary 1^ 

 to If; interorbital 5| to 6j; length 5yV to 5f inches. 



This species is closely related to Saurus variegatus Quoy and 

 Gaimard, whose plate quite agrees with the figure of Synodus varius 

 by Jordan and Evermann,i° in having the cheek entirely covered 

 with large scales. Synodus dermatogenys differs from Synodus 

 variegatus in having the posterior portion of the cheek naked. Lace- 

 pede's Salmo varius has been considered identical with Cobitis 

 japonica Houttuyn by Jordan and Herre," the latter evidently 

 having in mind the Hawaiian material identical with the figure of 

 Synodus varius of Jordan and Evermann. As I shall later show that 

 Synodus sharpi Fowler is a Saurida, the present species seems justified 

 in bearing a new name. 



(dipfia^ skin; yi^^to^^ cheek; with reference to the lower cheek 

 being naked.) 



'^Bull. U. S. F. Com., XXIII, pt. 1, 1903 (1905), p. 63. fig. 14. 

 " Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XXXII, 1907, p. 516. 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 569 



Saurida tumbil (Bloch). 



Three from Padang, Sumatra, one of which now in Stanford 

 University. 



Saurida gracilis (Quoy and Gaimard). 



Synodiis sharpi Fowler, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1900, p. 497, PI. 19, 

 fig. 2. Sandwich Islands. 



Nos. 16,084 (type) to 16,086, A. N. S. P. Type and paratypes of 

 S. sharpi Fowler. These examples were first wrongly identified by 

 Jenkins^- with Salmo varius Lacepede, and afterwards the error was 

 perpetuated by Jordan and Evermann,'^ Giinther,'* and Jordan and 

 Herre.i^ In 1900 I wrongly identified two Hawaiian examples of 

 this species as Saurida tumbil}^ Besides the above material there 

 are four examples in the collection from Hilo. I may here state that 

 my paper containing the description of Synodus sharpi very evidently 

 has priority over that by Steindachner^^ in Schauisland's collection. 

 Only a synopsis of the new species^* from Hawaii was published by 

 Steindachner in 1900, the complete account being reserved till later. 

 The actual date of publication for my paper was November 6, 1900, 

 while the volume containing Steindachner's full account is not 

 mentioned until the meeting of March 13, 1902, at the Vienna 

 Academy, ^^ and it was not received in the library of the Academy 

 of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia until October 31, 1902. 



Harpadon nehereus (Hamilton-Buchanan). 



One from Padang, Sumatra. 



MYOTOPHIDiB. 

 Ceratoscopelns maderensis (Lowe). 



One labeled ''Atlantic Ocean" (Tyson) from the stomach of a 



shark. Also 5 from N. Lat. 36° 24' W. Long. 71° 24'. 



Lampanyctus gemellarii (Cocco). 



Two from Italy (Bonaparte). 

 Lampanyctus crooodilus (Risso). 



Two from Italy (Bonaparte) . 



Nannobrachium macdonaldi Goode and Bean. 



Ocean Ich., 1895, p. 94, fig. 110. N. Lat. 39° 44' 30" W. Long. 71° 04' 

 in 1,022 fathoms. 



No. 7,978, A. N. S. P., paratype, with above data. 



'^Bull. U. S. F. Cam., XXII, pt. 1, 1902 (1903), p. 433. 



>' L. c, XXIII, pt. 1, 1903 (1905), p. 63 (65). 



" Journ. Mus. Godef., XVI, 1909, p. 376. 



I* Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XXXII, 1907, p. 516. 



1* Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1900, p. 497. 



»' Denk. Ak. Wiss. Wien, LXX, 1901, p. 513. 



'^Artz. Ak. Wiss. Wien, XXXVII, 1900, pp. 174-178. 



'» L. c, XXXIX, 1902, p. 77. 




570 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC.^ 



2;thoprora metopoclampa (Cocco). 



One from Italy (Bonaparte). 

 CoUettia rafinesquii (Cocco). 



Two from Italy (Bonaparte). 



Bhinoscopelus cocco (Cocco). 



One from Italy (Bonaparte) ; one from off Havre, France (Jones) ; 

 5 from between Norfolk, Cape de Verde Islands and Montevideo^ 

 Uruguay, in 1891-92 at the surface (Rush); 2 from S. Lat. 20° 

 W. Long. 75° (Sharp); 5 from N. Lat. 39° 50' 45" W. Long. 71° 43' 

 at the surface (U. S. F. C); 1 without locality (Jones). 



Centrobranchus ohoerocephalus Fowler. 



Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1903, p. 754. Near the Sandwich Islands. 

 Nos. 7,972 (type) to 7,977 (paratypes), A. N. S. P., of which one 

 now in Stanford University. 



Electrona risso (Cocco). 



One from Italy (Bonaparte). 



Myctophum punctatum Rafinesque. 



Four from Italy (Bonaparte). The example from the Atlantic 

 between Greenland and N. America in 60° N. Lat., I recorded as 

 M. phengodes,^ is also identical. 



Myctophum affine (Lutken). 



One from Lat. N. 8° 37' Long. W. 168° (Jones) ; and 2 Avithout 

 locality (Jones); 1 no data; 1 from Lat. N. 5° 11' Long. W. 151° 

 (Jones); 2 from between Norfolk in Cape de Verde Islands and 

 Montevideo, Uruguay, in 1891-92 at the surface (Rush). 



Myotophum hygomi (Lutken). 



One from Lat. N. 36° 45' W. Long. 74° 28' 30" (U. S. F. C), at 

 the surface probably. 

 Myctophum reinhardti (Lutken). 



One from Lat. S. 20° Long. W. 75° (Sharp). 

 Benthosema miilleri (Gmelin). 



One from Lat. N. 40° 4' 20" Long. W. 68° 43' 50" in 373 fathoms 

 (U. S. F. C). 



MAUROLIOIDiB. 

 Ichthyococcus ovatus (Cocco). 



Three from Italy (Bonaparte). 



Maurolicus attenuatus (Cocco). 



Four from Italy (Bonaparte). 



^Proc. Acod. A'at.Sci. Phila., 1901, p. 620. 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 571 



PLAQYODONTID^. 

 Plagyodas feroz (Lowe). 



One young from N. Lat. 5° W. Long. 164° (Jones), evidently this 

 species. 



PARALEPID^. 

 Sudis hyalina Rafinesque. 



Two from Italy (Bonaparte). 



Paralepis pseudocoregonoides Serato. 



One from Italy (Bonaparte). 



Paralepis barracudina Fowler and Phillips. 



Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1910, p. 403, fig. Corson's Inlet, N. J. 

 No. 37,627, A. N. S. P., type. 



STERNOPTYOHID.ZB. 

 Argyropelecus hemigymnas Cocco. 

 Seven from Italy (Bonaparte). 




572 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [DeC, 



the land molltjsca of montego bay, jamaica; with notes on the 

 land mollusca of the kingston eegion. 



by h. a. pilsbry and a. p. brown. 



1. The Mollusca of Montego Bay. 



The species included in this list were taken on the Orange Hill 

 and Rose Mount estates, which lie to the east of the town of Montego 

 Bay, and along the roadsides in this direction. The hills which 

 enclose Montego Bay on the east rise rather abruptly from the sea 

 level, but are dissected by many ravines. One of these, on the 

 Orange Hill estate, is deep enough to produce permanently moist 

 conditions during the summer months. This gully is generally 

 without running water; but when the ground is thoroughly saturated 

 by rains, a heavy thunder shower "makes the gully come down," 

 as the natives express it, in a raging torrent. This depression is 

 probably formed by the falling in of the roof of a cave, and indeed a 

 cave still exists leading off from one side of this gully, the mouth of 

 which is some 20 feet above the bottom of the present gully. The 

 sides of the gully are densely wooded, as are many of the lateral 

 branches which drain into it; the trees may be original forest. It 

 can be travelled for about a mile to a neighboring estate known as 

 Rose Mount, where the ground rises considerably higher and expo- 

 sures of the limestone in place are met with upon the hill tops. Here 

 again are some patches of original forest. But the land about 

 Montego Bay, with exception of a few places, has all been cleared 

 of its original forest many years ago, and much of this cleared land 

 has been at some time under cultivation. 



Where the cleared land was planted in orange or logwood, it is 

 now often grown up in a thicket; this is especially true of the old 

 logwood plantations on the Orange Hill estate. These occupy the 

 tops of dry hills, where the limestone soil, although dry, harbors 

 many small snails which prefer a dry habitat. The greater part of 

 the cleared fields on these estates are used for pastures, but these 

 are sometimes stony and dry also. In the lower grounds, on some of 

 the adjoining estates, sugar-cane is grown, and this was found to be 

 poor collecting ground. 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 573 



Messrs. Henderson and Simpson' have noted 37 species as occurring 

 in their collections at Montego Bay. Seventeen of these are also 

 in the collection here listed, leaving 23 species of the present list 

 new records for Montego Bay, while about 20 species of their list 

 are not represented in the present collection. They probably in- 

 cluded species from some miles on either side. 



HELIOID^. 

 Pleurodonte lucema (Mull.). 



Recent shells were sparingly found at Orange Hill and Rose Mount. 

 Semi-fossil shells were plentiful in the clay-filled fissures in the lime- 

 stone in the Orange Hill gully. It is perhaps extinct at Montego 

 Bay, as all shells found were old. 



Pleurodonte sloaneana (Shutt.). 



Orange Hill and Rose Mount, abundant. It was generally found 

 crawling on the ground, but during very rainy weather was seen 

 ascending the trees in great numbers to escape the wet in the Orange 

 Hill gully. 



Pleurodonte sinuata (Mttller). 



Semi-fossil in the clay veins in the limestone at Orange Hill 

 gully, also at the cave on the Orange Hill place, imbedded in clay. 

 These semi-fossil shells are smaller than those of the living species 

 found eisev/here in the island. 



Dimensions range from alt. 12.4 mm., diam. 22.5 mm., to alt. 

 16 mm., diam. 27.3 mm. 

 Pleurodonte (Dendrocochlis) aspera (F6r.). 



Orange Hill. The specimens collected had been used by land her- 

 mit crabs, but the species is arboreal and not uncommon in the 

 cocoanut and banana plantations. 

 Pleurodonte (Eurycratera) jamaicensis (Gmel.). 



Orange Hill. Semi-fossil in the clay-filled fissures in the limestone, 

 but probably extinct at this place, though found hving somewhere 

 in the vicinity. 

 Zaphysema columellata (C. B. Ad.). 



Semi-fossil in the clay-filled fissures in the limestone at Orange Hill 

 gully; no living forms were observed; perhaps extinct. 



Proserpinula infortunata (Bland). 



Orange Hill. 



' Nautilus, VIII, 1894, pp. 1, 19, 31. 

 38 




574 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



Thysanophora spreta (C. B. Ad.). 



Orange Hill and Rose Mount. Found plentifully in the logwood 

 plantations and the dry pasture fields. 



Thysanophora apex (C. B. Ad.). 



Orange Hill. This small species is evidently rare; but few speci- 

 mens were taken. 

 Thysanophora diminuta (C. B. Ad.). 



Orange Hill and Rose Mount. Very abundant in the dry logwood 

 plantations. 



Thysanophora diosooricola (C. B. Ad.). 

 Orange Hill. 



Thysanophora inoonspicua (C. B. Ad.). 

 Orange Hill. 



Sagda montegoensis n. sp. 



Orange Hill and Rose Mount. Living individuals of this species 

 were very plentiful in August, moving about in the damp gullies, 

 especially at Orange Hill. 



AOHATINID^. 

 Opeas micra (Orb.). 



Orange Hill. Very plentiful in the old logwood plantations. 

 Opeas gracile (Hutt.). 



Orange Hill. 

 Opeas pumilum (Pfr.). 



Orange Hill. 

 Subulina octona (Brug.). 



Orange Hill, Rose Mount, and Catharine Hall. Plentiful along 

 roadsides with exposures of dry limestone rock near Montego Bay. 



Leptinaria paUida (C. B. Ad.). 



Orange Hill. 



Leptinaria striosa (C. B. Ad.). 



Orange Hill. 



UROOOPTID^. 



Urocoptis gravesii (C.B. Ad.). 



Orange Hill and Rose Mount. 



Brachypodella robertsi (C. B. Ad.). 



Orange Hill. 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF THILADELPHIA. 575 



Braohypodella alba striata Pils. 



Orange Hill. Very plentiful after rains, crawling on the moist 

 rocks in the gully. 

 Spirostemma tenella (C. B. Ad.). 



Orange Hill and Rose Mount. Very common in the dry logwood 

 plantations at Orange Hill. 



OLBAOINID^. 

 Varicella blandiana (C. B. Ad.). 



Orange Hill. 

 Varicella propinqua (C. B. Ad.). 



Orange Hill and Rose Mount. 



Sigmataxis laeviusoulus (C. B. Ad.). 



Orange Hill. 



PERUSSAOID^. 



Cecilioides (Csecilianopsis) iota (C. B. Ad.). 



Orange Hill. 



SUOOINEID^. 



Baccinea latior C. B. Ad. 



Orange Hill, Found rather sparingly along the roadsides and in 

 the logwood plantations. 



TRUNO ATELLID^ . 

 Geomelania vicina C. B. Ad. 



Orange Hill, in the dry log-wood plantations. 

 Geomelania pygmaea C. B. Ad. 



Orange Hill. 

 Geomelania (Chittya) sinuosa Chitty. 



Orange Hill. A small species of Geovielania, about half the size of 

 G. pygmcea, was collected at Orange Hill, but while about ten speci- 

 mens were taken, none are sufficiently well developed for a satisfac- 

 tory description. 



The species listed as ^'Geomelana gracilis (C. B. Ad.) " from Bloom- 

 field and Benmore, Mandeville, in our former paper on the Mollusca 

 of Mandeville^ is Geomelania vicina C. B. Ad. 



OYCLOPHORID^. 

 Aperostoma (Ptychocochlis) corrugatum (Chitty). 



Orange Hill and Rose Mount. Semi-fossil shells were very plenti- 

 ful in the clay-filled rifts in the limestone at Orange Hill gully; fresh 



* The Mollusca of Mandeville, Jamaica, and its Environs. Proc. Acad. Nat. 

 Sci. Phila., 1910, p. .521. 




576 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



shells were common in the same locality. This seems a favorite 

 species with the land hermit crab. 



Aperostoma dubiosum (C. B. Ad.). 



Orange Hill. Found living in the Orange Hill gully, also in the 

 clays with the other semi-fossil specimens. 



ERICIID^ (OYOLOSTOMATID^). 

 Colobostylus bronni (C. B. Ad.). 



Orange Hill, Rose Mount. Very plentiful in the Orange Hill 

 gully, moving over the moist rocks. After rains, this species was 

 seen at both localities ascending trees to escape the wet, and resting 

 upon the trunk under shelter of the branches. They frequently 

 ascended the trees for 20 or 30 feet. Many of the specimens collected 

 were paired when taken. 



Adamsiella irrorata Gloyne. 



Orange Hill. Very common in the Orange Hill gully, moving 

 about upon damp rock surfaces. 



HELICINID^. 

 Helioina neritella angalata C. B. Ad. 



Orange Hill and Rose Mount. 

 Stoastoma. 



Eight species of this genus were collected at Orange Hill and Rose 

 Mount. 



Eutrochatella pulohella (Gray). 



Orange Hill and Rose Mount. 



Alcadia palliata (C. B. Ad.). 



Semi-fossil in the clay-filled fissures in the limestone. Orange Hill 

 gully. 

 Laoidella aureola (Fer.). 



Orange Hill and Rose Mount. Very plentiful in the dry logwood 

 plantations and among the rock exposures on the Rose Mount 

 estate. 



Lncidella persculpta n. sp. 



Orange Hill and Rose Mount. 



PROSBRPINID-ffi. 

 Proserpina nitida Gray. 

 Orange Hill. 




1911.] natural sciences of philadelphia. 577 



2. Notes on the Mollusca of the Kingston Region. 



Collections in the vicinity of Kingston were made at Rockfort, on 

 the slopes of Long Mountain; near Constant Spring; at Stony Hill — 

 all in the parish of St. Andrew. Rockfort and Constant Spring are 

 easily reached by trolley from the centre of Kingston; Stony Hill is 

 within easy walking distance from the end of the trolley line at Con- 

 stant Spring or it may be reached by driving from the same point. 



The Rockfort station is at the base and on the slope of Long 

 Mountain, a hill which divides the Liguanea plain in which Kingston 

 lies from the valley of Hope River. The collections were made near 

 the quarry in the soft limestone that is located near the old fort; also 

 on the raised beaches and the lower slope of the hill. The hillside is 

 grown up in "bush/' lignum vitse, logwood, tree cactus, "wild pines," 

 or species of the Bromeliacece, and various thorny shrubs make 

 progress through the thickets rather slow. The raised beach is some 

 20 or 30 feet above the present water level in the bay and is covered 

 with fragments of limestone mixed with recent marine shells. It is 

 wooded like the rest of the hillside and is very porous and dry. 



Ascending the hill slope, the surface becomes covered by loose 

 pieces of the limestone and is even more dry than the raised beach. 

 When this locality was visited in the previous March, during the dry 

 season, very few living mollusks were seen except the arboreal Oxy- 

 styla undata jamaicensis Pils., which was observed on the tree cactus 

 as well as in the branches of the other trees and shrubs growing near 

 Rockfort Garden, and Tudora armaia (C. B. Ad.), which was found 

 sparingly, moving about on a damp exposure of the limestone. In 

 the summer, however, when showers are more frequent, a consider- 

 able number of the species were taken alive. The prevailing char- 

 acteristic of this Rockfort station is its general dryness throughout 

 most of the year. 



The plateau of limestone rock which forms the high land in the 

 centre of the island, as at Mandeville, extends to the east as far as 

 Constant Spring, where it abuts against the older rocks of the Blue 

 Mountain. Certain spurs of this plateau, reaching out to the north- 

 east, form by their dissection isolated limestone hills, rising from the 

 Liguanea plain. These are near the hotel at Constant Spring, and 

 from some of these little isolated hills the species recorded as from 

 Constant Spring were obtained. The main mass of one of these 

 spurs, rising rather steeply from the Constant Spring level to an 

 elevation of 1,000 feet, becomes the hill marked on the maps as 

 Stony Hill, and the same name has been given to the small village 




578 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



at the top of the hill along the main post road across the island from 

 Kingston to St. Mary Parish. 



HELICID^. 

 Cepolis (Hemitroohus) graminicola (C. B. Ad.). 



Roadsides near Constant Spring. 



Cepolis (Dialeuoa) suboonica (C. B. Ad.). 



Stony Hill. 



Plenrodonte acuta semperfluens n. subsp. 



Near Constant Spring and at Stony Hill. 



Pleurodonte acuta sublucerna Pils. 



Rockfort. Found abundantly on the raised beaches and lower 

 hill slopes. Only weathered shells were collected, but it is probably 

 living at this station. The size varies much; the teeth are two, 

 variable in size, but the outer is more regular. Dimensions of four 

 specimens follow: 

 Alt. 19, diam. 37.3 mm. 



" 18, " 35 " 



" 17.8, " 32.5 " 



u j4^ u 27 " 



Pleurodonte sinuosa (Fer.). 



Stony Hill and Constant Spring. 



Pleurodonte (Earycratera) jamaicensis (Gmel.). 



Stony Hill. Only one rather weathered shell was found. 



Thysanophora spreta (C. B. Ad.). 



Stony Hill. 

 Thysanophora turbiniformis (Pfr.). 



Stony Hill. 

 Thysanophora apex (C. B. Ad.). 



Stony Hill; rare. 

 Thysanophora diminuta (C. B. Ad.j. 



Rockfort, Constant Spring, and Stony Hill. 

 Thysanophora dioscorioola (C. B. Ad.). 



Stony Hill. 



Thysanophora epistyliulum CO. B. Ad.). 

 Stony Hill, 

 la spei P. & B. 

 Only found at Rockfort. 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 579 



Sagda cookiana (Gmel.). 



Constant Spring and Stony Hill. 



Sagda jayana (C. B. Ad.). 



Stony Hill. Probably topotypes; this is very likely where C. B. 

 Adams's original specimens of this species were collected. See de- 

 scriptions of new species below. 



BULIMULIDiB. 

 Oxystyla undata jamaioensis Pils. 



Rockfort. Arboreal in the logwood and lignum-vitae trees, also 

 in the tree-cactus, upon which they were very plentiful in August. 



AOHATINID-®. 

 Opeas miora (Orb.)- 



Stony Hill and Constant Spring, St. Andrewo. 

 Subalina ootona (Brug.). 



Stony Hill and Constant Spring, St. Andrews. 



UROCOPTID-ffiJ. 

 Urocoptis sanguinea (C. B. Ad.). 



Constant Spring and Stony Hill, St. Andrews. Very plentiful 

 along the roadsides and in the limestone exposures at both of these 

 localities. 



Urocoptis brevis (Pfr.). 



Rockfort. Crawling about on the exposed rocks after rain. 

 Braohypodella seminada (C.B. Ad.). 



Stony Hill. 

 Braohypodella ohemnitziana (F6r.). 



Stony Hill. 



OLBAOINIDiE. 

 Varicella dissimilis Pils. 



Stony Hill. 



Varicella costulata (C. B. Ad.). 

 Stony Hill. 



OYOLOPHORID.ZB. 



Aperostoma (Ptychooochlis) varians (C. B. Ad.). 



Constant Spring and Stony Hill. 



ERIOIID^ (OYOLOSTOMATIDiB). 

 Tadora fecunda (C. B. Ad.). 



Constant Spring. 




580 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [DeC, 



Tndora armata (C. B. Ad.). 



Rockfort. Upon visiting this locality after a rain, the individuals 

 of this species were so plentiful that their movement could be heard 

 as a continuous rustling of the dry fallen leaves under the trees. 

 They were pairing actively. During dry times large numbers were 

 seen collected under stones in a resting condition. 

 Adamsiella grayana Pfr. 



Stony Hill. 



HELIOINID^. 

 Eutrochatella pulohella (Gray). 

 Stony Hill. 



3. Descriptions of New Species, etc. 



Plearodonte aouta semperfluens n. subsp. PI. XLIII, figs. 15, 16. 



This form is rather thinner than P. a. goniasmos, with the peripheral 

 angle in the last third of the last whorl becoming subobsolete or the 

 periphery may be flattened and obliquely weakly corrugated; the 

 last whorl is convex or swollen below the suture, as in P. subacuta, not 

 flattened as in acuta and goniasmos. The columella is longer than in 

 goniasmos, basal lip generally more erect, white, with a brown edge. 

 Base green (becoming dull greenish-brown with age), with a chestnut 

 zone below the periphery. Aperture broadly open, truncate-oval, 

 the outer arc broadly rounded; teeth small, one or two, the inner 

 tooth inconstant. 



Alt. 28, diam. 51.3 mm. Constant Spring. 

 " 26, " 44 " Constant Spring. 

 " 30.5, " 57 " Stony Hill. 



Only "dead" shells were picked up on Stony Hill. They are 

 much larger than the types from Constant Spring. Shells from Bog 

 Walk, collected by Mr. Wm. J. Fox in 1891, are evidently referable 

 to the same race. 

 Sagda. 



Beck based the genus Sagda on two species: S. alveolata Beck, 

 based on F^russac, Histoire, etc., pi. 51a, fig. 1 (a false reference, 

 possibly intended for pi. 51b, fig. 4), and S. australis = S. cookiana 

 (Gmel.). The first of these was selected as type of the genus by 

 Gray and Herrmannsen, in 1847; but since its identity is uncertain, no 

 later author having determined the species, the subsequent selection 

 of S. cookiana Gmel. as type by von Martens, should be accepted. 



Much confusion in collections existed among the larger species for 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 581 



many years, and indeed still exists. Even with the series we now 

 have they are difficult, although the recognition of a greater number 

 of species does away with much of the variability formerly thought to 

 exist. The specific characters, once mastered, appear to be rather 

 constant, though sometimes not conspicuous at first sight. Helix 

 epistylium Miiller, formerly thought to be a Sagda and variously 

 identified, has been shown by Morch to be a Streptaxis, not a Ja- 

 maican shell. H. epistylioides Fer. we have not satisfactorily identified, 

 and it probably has not been rediscovered. As figured and de- 

 scribed, it is more strongly sculptured than any of the known species. 



Sagda jayana (C. B. Adama). Plate XLIII, figs. 8 to 12. 



Helix jayana C. B. Ad., Proc. Boston Soc. Nat. Hist., II, p. 17, 1845. 

 (f ) Epistylia conica Swainson, Malacology, p. 165, fig. 18a, 1840. 



This species was described by a parallel-column comparison with 

 '^ Helix epistylium Miill." of C. B. Adams = *Sagfda cookiana Gmel. 

 The description might apply to several of the large obtusely pyrami- 

 dal forms, except for the phrase "t. latiore, subtus latissime et pro- 

 funde indentata," which unmistakably indicates the Sagda of the 

 region about Stony Hill, in St. Andrew Parish, some eight miles from 

 Kingston. 



The shell is pyramidal, with dome-shaped summit, the spire very 

 wide and steep-sided as far up as the upper third or fourth; last 

 whorl much depressed, the base deeply and very broadly excavated 

 around the axis, its greatest convexity nearer the periphery than to 

 the axis. Surface very finely but distinctly striate, and having a 

 microscopic sculpture like a woven fabric. Aperture less deeply lunate 

 than in >S. adavisiana. Basal lamella slightly over a half whorl long, 

 its lower end visible deep in the throat. Columellar lamella longer, very 

 stout, extending strongly nearly to the edge of the columellar margin. 

 Alt. 24^, diam. 26 mm. with 10 whorls, or larger, diam. 29^ mm. 



Up to the half-grown stage, 5 to 8 whorls, the shell is much de- 

 pressed, the last whorl subangular, base flattened and not much 

 excavated at the axis; aperture narrowly lunate; lamellae as in the 

 adult stage. A shell of 6| whorls measures: alt. 10.3, diam. 18 mm. 



The specimens described and figured are from Stony Hill, near 

 Constant Spring, where it lives in company with S. cookiana Gmel., 

 a circumstance which probably influenced Prof. Adams to compare 

 them in his original description. 



The most important features differentiating this species from S. 

 adam.nana are: the very broad excavation of the base, the wide 

 spire, and the nearly emerging columellar lamella. We may add 




582 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



also the shape of the shell in the half-grown and younger stages, 

 wherein the base is far less convex than in S. adamsiana, and the 

 aperture much narrower. The lamellse are substantially alike in the 

 two species except that the columellar lamella extends strongly upon 

 the columellar margin, so that it is visible in the aperture of S. jayana, 

 but not visible or only weakly in ;S. adamsiana. 



The half-grown j^oung shells resemble S. connedens (C. B. Ad.) verj' 

 closely in shape, but they differ by the columellar lamella, which 

 appears strong in a view in the aperture, while in *S. connedens it is 

 not visible from the mouth, 



Swainson's figure of Epistylia arnica {Malacology, p. 165, fig. 18a), 

 has perhaps more resemblance to S. jayana than to any other species, 

 but it is rude and of very uncertain application to this or any species. 

 Later in the same work Swainson has an Epistyla conica (p. 331) 

 based on fig. 281 of Sowerby'sManwaZ, which represents >Safirda cookiana. 

 We have confirmed the synonymy of S. jayana given in the Manual 

 of Conchology, IX, p. 64. 



A small race of S. jayana occurs at Bog Walk, where it was col- 

 lected by Messrs. Wm. J. Fox and C. W. Johnson. The shell 

 measures: alt. 16.3, diam. 20 mm., with nearly 8 whorls. It will 

 probably prove to be a distinct subspecies. 



Sagda adamsiana n. sp. Plate XLIII, figs, l to 7. 



Sagda jayana Pilsbry and Brown, Proc. A. N. S. Phila., 1910, p. 517, and 

 probably of other authors on the Mandeville fauna. 



The shell is pyramidal, with dome-like summit and an enlarged, 

 prominent, well-rounded last whorl, more ample than that of S. 

 jayana; base convex, rather deeply but narrowly impressed in the 

 centre, its greatest convexity midway between axis and periphery. 

 Surface finely, rather weakly striate, and in places showing traces of a 

 microscopic woven texture. Aperture deeply lunate. Basal lamella 

 somewhat over a half whorl long, situated outside of the greatest 

 convexity of the base, its end visible deep in the throat. Columellar 

 lamella as long as the other, its lower end weakly or not visible in the 

 mouth. 



Alt. 27, diam. 29^ mm.; 10^ whorls. 

 " 23i. " 28 " 9f " 

 " 211, " 24 " 9| " 



Young shells of 6 or 7 whorls are depressed with very convex base 

 and narrow axial impression, the basal margin of the aperture much 

 more deeply curved than in S. jayana. Basal lamella nearly a 

 whorl long, extending almost to the lip. Columellar lamella about 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 583 



a half whorl long, and immersed, as in adults. A shell of 65 whorls 

 measures: alt. 9^, diam. 15| mm. At this and earlier stages the 

 axis is perforate. This species, commonly known in collections as 

 S. jayana, inhabits the region of Mandeville in Manchester, where 

 it is very abundant and generally dispersed. The types are 100,868, 

 A. N. S. P., from the ridge near Lincoln. They were catalogued as 

 S. jayana in our former paper (these Proceedings, 1910, p. 517). 



Besides the several differences noticed under S. jayana, the last 

 whorl is both deeper and broader in this species, in its fullest devel- 

 opment projecting beyond the general outline of the side, and appear- 

 ing somewhat disproportionately enlarged beyond the preceding 

 whorls. The adolescent stages are even more distinct from corre- 

 sponding stages of S. jayana than the adult shells. With several 

 hundred shells before us for study, we find the differential characters 

 of S. adamsiana remarkably constant. 



Named in honor of Professor C. B. Adams, whose Contribu- 

 tions to Conchology form the foundation of Jamaican malacology. 



Sagda montegoensis n. sp. Plate XLIII, figs. 13, 14. 



The shell resembles S. adamsiana in shape and the internal lamellae, 

 but it is smaller; the last whorl is less convex above, more flattened 

 below, the suture; the aperture is decidedly higher, the basal margin 

 being more deeply curved. The surface has a varnish-like gloss, and 

 under the compound microscope shows no minute sculpture; the 

 last two or three whorls are only weakly, irregularly striate. 



Alt. 20, diam. 23 mm.; 9 whorls. 

 " 21.1, " 21.4 " 9i " 

 " 17.2, " 21 " 8 



Orange Hill, Montego Bay; types No. 104,452, A. N. S. P., col- 

 lected by Dr. A. P. Brown, 1910. 



This is probably the form listed from Montego Bay by Messrs. 

 Henderson and Simpson as aS. epistylium Miill.,^ but, as noted above, 

 that is not a Jamaican species. 



Young shells, down to 4f whorls, diam. 9 mm., are imperforate. 

 By breaking down a shell it appears that only about two whorls fol- 

 lowing the embryonic stage (of 1| whorls) have the axis perforate. 

 The perforate stage is therefore much shorter than in S. adamsiana. 



S. montegoensis differs from S. spei by having the basal lamella 

 nearer the periphery, being situated as in S. adamsiana. It was 

 found in great profusion. 



^Nautilus, VIII, p. 2, No. 22. 




584 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



Laoidella personlpta n. sp. Fig. 1. 



The shell is related to L. lineata, and more especially to L. foxi. 

 It differs from both by its much more depressed shape, smaller size 

 and coarser spiral sculpture, which continues undiminished on the 

 base to the axial callus. Whorls 4|, the last rounded peripherally, 

 impressed around the axial callus. The edge of the well-expanded 

 peristome is slightly scalloped above, but not so strongly as in L. foxi. 

 The tooth within the upper lip is very small, that upon the basal 

 lip strong and squarish, as in L. foxi; but, unlike that species, there 

 is no tooth within the outer margin. 



Fig. 1. — Liicidella persculpta. 



Alt. 1.4, diam. 3 to 3.3 mm.; 4^ whorls. 



Orange Hill and Rose Mount, Montego Bay. Types No. 104,402, 

 A. N. S. P., collected by A. P. Brown, September, 1910. 



The nearest relative of this species is L. foxi Pilsbry, taken by 

 Mr. Wm. J. Fox at a cave near Port Antonio,* much further east, 

 on the northern shore. In L. lineata (C. B. Ad.) the spiral sculpture 

 fails near the axial callus, leaving a small smoothish area; the spiral 

 threads are finer, less unequal, and one is generally prominent at 

 the periphery, which is thereby made angular or carinate, as de- 

 scribed by Professor Adams. We consider Mandeville the type 

 locality of L. lineata, as Adams's description applies exactly to the 

 form found there.^ 



Luddella trochiformis Pilsbry^ is possibly identical with L. nana 

 Pfr., but if so the radial undulation, producing nodules on the lirae, 

 was not noticed by Pfeiffer. 



* So far as we know, this species does not inhabit the "Hotel Fichfild," as 

 Herr Wagner has it, Conchylien Cabinet, Helicinidoe, p. 343. The Tichfield 

 Hotel is at Port Antonio. 



^ We were in error in writing L. nana Pfr. a synonym of L. lineata in these 

 Pboceedings for 1910, p. 52.5. It is a distinct species. 



''Na^ltilus, XIII, p. 56. 




1911,] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 585 



The above-mentioned species are evidently related to L. lirata 

 (Ph.)=HeHcina lirata and unidentata of authors, a species found on 

 the mainland from Vera Cruz to the Orinoco River; also to L. lamel- 

 losa (Guppy) of Trinidad. For this little group the name Perenna 

 Guppy might be used in a subgeneric sense. 



The typical group of Lucidella consists of the larger Jamaican 

 species: L. aureola Fer. (the type of Lucidella), L. granulosa C. B. 

 Ad., 1850 (of which L. undulata Pfr., 1861, seems to be a synonym), 

 L. depressa Gray (the type of Pcenia H. and A. Ad.), and L. adams- 

 iana Pfr. 

 Lucidella yallahsensis n. sp. Fig. 2. 



The shell is nearly white, smaller than L. lineata, a little more 

 depressed, with rounded periphery. Apex smooth, the rest of the 

 shell finely and densely striate spirally; the base striate throughout. 

 Peristome expanded, thick, notched at the columella; the basal tooth 

 large and squarish, as in L. lineata; the tooth within the upper lip 

 rudimentary, represented by a slight swelling of the inner margin. 



Fig. 2. — Lucidella yallahsensis. 



Alt. 1.5, diam. 2.8 mm.; 4| whorls. 



Yallahs, parish of St. Thomas. Types No. 10211, A. N. S. P., 

 from the Robert Swift collection (probably collected by Gloyne). 



A series of over 30 individuals shows constant differences from 

 L. lineata of the Mandeville region, differences which we must look 

 upon as specific in the present state of our collections. Of this group 

 of Lucidella we now know five or six Jamaican species : 



L. yallahsensis n. sp. of the southern shore, eastward from Kingston. 



L. lineata (C. B. Ad.) of the high interior, westward. 



L. foxi Pils. and L. persculpta n. sp. of the north shore. 



L. nana Pfr. "Jamaica." 



L. trochiformis Pils. "Jamaica." 

 Geomelania. 



Of the genus Geomelania there have been described from the 

 island of Jamaica 29 species and varieties. We append an analytical 

 key to these species, which has been found useful. 




586 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DcC, 



A. Whorls with transverse (axial) ribs and microscopic spiral striae. 

 a. Length of shell, 10 mm. or more. 



b. Labium separated by a groove or space from the penul- 

 timate whorl. 

 1. Labrum not separated from labium by a sinus, well 

 produced obliquely and downward; size, 16x3.8 



mm procera C. B. Ad. 



hb. Labium not separated from penultimate whorl. 



c. 2. Labium expanded convexly, not much produced be- 

 low; size, 11 X 3.5 mm minor C. B. Ad. 



cc. Labrum produced below. 



3. Linguiform part of labrum much produced, subacute, 



40 ribs per whorl; size, 14 x 3.3 mm., 



gracilis C. B. Ad. 



4. Linguiform part excessively produced, very narrow 



and subacute, 26-30 ribs per whorl; size, 12 x 3.2 



mm typica C. B. Ad. 



aa. Length of shell less than 10 mm. 



rf. Labium detached from the penultimate whorl. 

 e. Labium widely detached from the penultimate 

 whorl. 



5. Labium very widely detached from the penul- 



timate whorl, linguiform part obtuse and 

 produced laterally, 40 arcuate ribs per 

 whorl ; size, 9.4 x 3 mm... ..costulosa C. B. Ad. 



6. Labium rather widely detached, linguiform 



part on lower half of labrum and scarcely 

 produced; ribs, 35 per whorl; size, 6f x 1.6 



mm. exilis C. B. Ad. 



ee. Labium moderately or only slightly detached 

 from the penultimate whorl. 



7. Labrum separated from labium by a keyhole 



sinus, labium distinctly detached from 

 the penultimate whorl; size, 5| x 1.2 mm., 



sinuosa Chitty. 



8. Entire end of last whorl a little detached 



from the penultimate whorl and angular 

 above, lip sharp, labium reflected (oppo- 

 site the penultimate whorl); labrum 

 (otherwise) scarcely reflected; size, 7.5 x 

 1.7 mm. beardsleyana C. B. Ad. 



9. Labium slightly detached, prominent, thick- 



ened; labrum but little produced below, 

 moderately thickened and reflexed, 



elegans C. B. Ad. 



10. Labium slightly detached and separated from 



labrum by a slight sinus; ribs widely 



spread, 8 to a whorl, excessively elevated, 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 587 



practically varices; the spiral striae show 

 strongly on the ribs; size, 7x2 mm., 



gray ana C. B. Ad. 



11. Labium slightly separated except at its upper 



extremity; 16 arcuate ribs per whorl; 



size, 9.7 X 2 mm. striosa C. B. Ad. 



dd. Labium not detached from the penultimate whorl. 



12. Linguiform part much produced below, sub- 



acute; 36 ribs per whorl; length, 9.2 mm., 



gracilis var. parva C. B. Ad. 



13. Linguiform part excessively produced below; 



very narrow and subacute; length, 7.5 mm., 

 typica var. pygmcea C. B. Ad. 



14. Labrum but little produced below, moderately 



thickened and reflexed, not separated from 

 labium by a sinus, whorls remaining five; 

 size, 4.1 X 1.3 mm. parvula'F. & B. 



15. Labrum rounded, not produced into a lingui- 



form portion, separated from the labium by 

 a sinus; size, 4.5 x 1 mm. pygmcea C. B. Ad. 



16. Labrum obtuse, expanded, rounded, 40-50 ribs 



per whorl, 36 spiral striae on the penultimate 

 whorl; size, 4.1 x 1.1 mm. microglypta P. & B. 

 B. Whorls with transverse (axial) ribs, but without microscopic 

 spiral striae. 

 a. Length of shell, 10 mm. or more. 



h. Labium separated by a groove or space from the penulti- 

 mate whorl . 



17. Labrum separated from labium by a sinus, reflexed and 



thickened, very much produced in the lower part; 

 size, 17 X 5 mm jamaicensis Pfr. 



18. Labium separated from the penultimate whorl except 



at its upper extremity. Linguiform part of labrum 

 at the anterior extremity of the right side, well pro- 

 duced obliquely, not narrow, subacute; ribs 35 per 

 whorl, prominent, acute-edged; size, 10 x 2 mm., 



media C. B. Ad. 



19. Labium thickened and separated from penultimate whorl. 



Linguiform part excessively produced obliquely down- 

 ward, narrow and acute; ribs 36 per whorl; size, 

 15 X 4.5 mm fortis C. B. Ad. 



20. Labium separated from the penultimate whorl; lingui- 



form part produced obliquely and laterally, wide, 

 obtuse; ribs 38 per whorl, slender and arcuate; size, 



16.5 X 4.75 mm. magna C. B. Ad. 



bb. Labium not separated from the penultimate whorl. 



^ This is the species described by Edward Chitty (Cont. Conch, of Edward 

 Chilly, No. 1, Kingston, Jamaica, 1853, p. 6) under the name Geomelania parva 

 Chitty. This name being preoccupied by G. gracilis parva C. B. Adams, we 

 would propose the name Geomelania parvula for Chitty's species. 




588 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



21. Labium thin, reflexed into the cavity of the penultimate 



whorl and appressed thereto; labrum slightly re- 

 flexed above, spreading widely and reflexed below. 

 Ribs strong, flattened on forward side and obsolete 

 on the anterior half of the last whorl; size, 13x4.7 

 mm expansa C. B. Ad. 



22. Labium produced below; linguiform part of labrum 



much produced, subacute; 40 ribs per whorl; size, 

 14 X 3.3 mm. gracilis C. B. Ad. 



23 . Linguiform part of labrum excessively produced obliquely 



and narrow; size, 13 x 4.7 mm. afinis C. B. Ad. 



24. Linguiform part excessively produced obliquely and 



acute at the lower part of the right side; size, 10 x 2.3 



mm conica C. B. Ad. 



aa. Length of shell less than 10 mm, 



c. liabiuni separated from the penultimate whorl. 



25. Whorls remaining, 7 or 8; linguiform part of labrum 



but slightly produced; ribs 25 per whorl, broad, 

 obtuse; size, 5.3 x 1.2 mm pauperata C. B. Ad. 



26. Labium thickened and slightly separated from the 



penultimate whorl; labrum well expanded, thin, 

 reflexed; linguiform part moderately produced 

 obliquely at the side, obtuse; ribs 33-35 per 



whorl; size, 6.3 x 2.2 mm hilliana C. B. Ad. 



cc. Labium not separated from the penultimate whorl. 



27. Appears smooth until the lens is used, then covered 



with rounded, close-set, transverse ribs; labrum 

 produced on the right, labium appressed to the 

 penultimate whorl at the upper half and separated 

 from the labrum by a slight sinus; size, 9.1 x 2 

 mm inornata Chitty. 



28. Labrum produced obliquely forward, rounded at the 



apex and reflexed; ribs 30 per whorl, coarse; 

 size, 8 X 2.7 mm vicina C. B. Ad. 



29. Labrum thin, slightly reflexed; linguiform part ob- 



tuse, moderately produced laterally at the lower 

 part of the right side; labium a little thickened 

 and reflexed; 28 small, obtuse ribs, which, on the 

 last whorl, terminate a little below the periphery; 

 remaining whorls 7 or 8; size, 8.1 x 2.2 mm., 



pyramidatus C. B. Ad. 



Explanation of Plate XLIII. 



Figs. 1-5. — Sagda adamsiana n. sp. 



Fig. 6. — Sagda adamsiana n. sp., showing interior of last whorl from above. 



Fig. 7. — Sagda adamsiana n. sp., half-grown specimen. 



Figs. 8, 9, 11, 12. — Sagda jayana C. B. Ad. 



Fig. 10. — Sagda jayana C. B. Ad., showing interior of last whorl from above. 



Figs. 13, 14. — Sagda moniegoensis n. sp. 



Figs. 15, 16. — Pleurodonte acuta semperfluens n. subsp. 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 589 



The following Reports were ordered to be printed: 



REPORT OF THE RECORDING SECRETARY. 



The sixteen meetings provided for by the By-Laws were held dur- 

 ing the year from the last of November, 1910, to the beginning of 

 December, 1911, with an average attendance of thirty-two. A few 

 reports of original investigations were presented and communica- 

 tions were made by Benjamin Sharp, James A. G. Rehn, Henry 

 A. Pilsbry, Frank J. Keeley, E. G. Conklin, Herbert Fox, H. Van 

 Sickle, Hugo Bilgram, Charles S. Boyer, Mr. Owen, Thomas S. 

 Stewart, Samuel G. Dixon, Henry Skinner, Philip P. Calvert, 

 Henry Tucker, Thomas H. Montgomery, Jr., Edgar T. Wherry, 

 Spencer Trotter, Edwin S. Balch, Witmer Stone, John W. Harsh- 

 berger, Charles Morris, and Stewardson Brown. Most of these 

 were illustrated by lantern slides. They were not reported for 

 publication. 



Thirty-four papers were presented as follows: Henry W. Fowler, 6; 

 Henry A. Pilsbry, 5; Amos P. Brown, 3; Edw. G. Vanatta, 2; 

 Thomas H. Montgomery, Jr., 2; Ralph V. Chamberlin, 2; S, 

 Stillman Berry, 2; H. A. Pilsbry and James H. Ferriss, 1; Amos P. 

 Brown and H. A. Pilsbry, 1; Frank J. Keeley, 1; J. Percy Moore, 1 

 Witmer Stone, 1; James A. G. Rehn, 1; Clarence B. Moore, 1 

 Norman E. Mclndoo, 1; Nathan Banks, 1; Howard Crawley, 1 

 Friedr. Dahl, 1; and R. W. Shufeldt, 1. 



Of these, two were accepted for publication in the Journal, three 

 were returned to the authors, and two await the action of the Publi- 

 cation Committee. Mr. Clarence B. Moore has again borne the 

 entire cost of publication of a beautifully illustrated part of the 

 Journal, forming No. 3 of Volume XIV. 



The issue of publications during the year has been as follows : Pro- 

 ceedings, 674 pages and 41 plates; Journal, 113 pages and 8 

 plates; Entomological News, 480 pages, 19 plates; Transac- 

 tions OF THE American Entomological Society (Entomological 

 Section of the Academy), 380 pages and 13 plates; Manual of 

 CoNCHOLOGY, 175 pagcs and 26 plates, forming part of Volume XXI. 



The volume had been completed by Dr. Pilsbry before the end of 

 November, but owing to a mishap with the lithographic printer the 

 39 




590 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



concluding number was not issued until later, so that it will be in- 

 cluded in the statistics of publication of next year. 



Thirty members and six correspondents have been elected. The 

 deaths of seven members and fourteen correspondents were an- 

 nounced. In recording the death of the Rev. Henry C. McCook, 

 the Secretary referred briefly to the value of his work and to the very 

 important services rendered by him to the Academy as Vice-Presi- 

 dent, and especially in connection with the Committee on Instruc- 

 tion and Lectures. A much more adequate memorial has been 

 published by Dr. Philip P. Calvert in the current volume of the 

 Entomological News. 



The appointments made by the President on the recommendation 

 of the Council are noted in the report of the Corresponding Secretary. 



Resignations of membership were received from Wm. J. Sinclair, 

 H. R. M. Landis, H. T. Wolf and T. Guilford Smith. 



A successful meeting of the American Ornithologists' Union was 

 held in the Lecture Hall and Reading Room, November 13-16. 



The Committee on Instruction and Lectures reports that the 

 usual course of free popular evening lectures was conducted in 

 conjunction with the Ludwick Institute, January 9-April 20, 1911, 

 this being the second series delivered in the new Lecture Hall of the 

 Academy. 



Five lectures on Bird Life about Philadelphia were delivered by 

 Mr. Witmer Stone; three on the Conservation of Human Energies 

 and Resources by Dr. Seneca Egbert; two on the Mammalia by 

 Dr. Spencer Trotter; five on Scientific Explorers of America and 

 their Discoveries by Dr. H. A. Pilsbry; five on Entomology by 

 Dr. Henry Skinner; five on Local Wild Flowers by Mr. Witmer Stone 

 (in the absence of Mr. Stewardson Brown) ; five on Animal Colora- 

 tion and its Significance by Dr. J. Percy Moore. 



Beginning September 13, 1911, an afternoon course was given to 

 students of the Girls' High Schools of Philadelphia, who visited the 

 Academy in company with their teachers. This course was very 

 largely attended. Two lectures each were delivered by the following 

 speakers: Mr. Witmer Stone on Local Birds, Dr. J. Percy Moore 

 on Mammals and Reptiles, Dr. Henry Skinner on Insects, Mr. 

 Stewardson Brown on Plants, and Dr. Henry A. Pilsbry on MoUusks. 



Early in the year resolutions were adopted by the Council approv- 

 ing of a fitting celebration of the Centenary of the Academy on the 

 19th, 20th, and 21st of next March. The President appointed a 

 committee of forty-one to make arrangements for such celebration. 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 591 



The General Committee has been divided into sub-committees 

 on Printing and Publications, Meetings and Addresses, Invita- 

 tions, Finance, and Entertainment. In harmony with a prelim- 

 inary report of this committee, the publication of three volumes 

 has been decided upon: A commemorative quarto volume of 

 scientific memoirs, an index to the series of Proceedings and 

 Journals up to and including 1910, and a detailed history of the 

 Academy by the Recording Secretary, of which the chapter con- 

 tributed to the Founders' Week Memorial Volume may be regarded 

 as a prodromus. It has been decided to hold the first session on 

 the meeting night of the Academy, March 19, when historical 

 addresses will probably be delivered; two morning sessions will 

 be devoted to the reading of scientific papers; on the afternoon 

 of the second day a microscopical exhibition will be given and 

 the resources of the Academy demonstrated; on the evening of 

 that day a reception will be tendered to members, guests and 

 friends, and the proceedings will probably end with a banquet on 

 the evening of March 21st, the official birthday of the Academy. 



The preparation of the proposed publications is progressing 

 satisfactorily, and it is hoped that a united effort may be made to 

 secure for the occasion a success commensurate with its importance 

 in the history of the Academy and in its relation to the advance- 

 ment of science in America. 



Edward J. Nolan, 



Recording Secretary. 



REPORT OF THE CORRESPONDING SECRETARY. 



During the year just closed death claimed the following named 

 correspondents: Charles Otis Whitman, Ernest Andre, Thomas 

 Rupert Jones, Samuel H. Scudder, C. M. Scammon, Maskelyne 

 N. Story and Fiorentino Ameghino. The death of Professor Ralph 

 Tate, in 1901, was also announced. 



The election of six correspondents has been recorded in the current 

 Proceedings. A revised list of correspondents has been prepared 

 for publication by the Assistant Librarian, 



Invitations to participate in the following events of interest to the 

 scientific world were received: The International Hygiene Exhibi- 

 tion in Dresden; the learned congress in comiection with the Millenary 

 Fetes in celebration of the one thousandth anniversary of the freedom 

 of Normandy; the international programme in honor of the memory of 

 Amedeo Avogadro; the one hundredth anniversary of the founding 




592 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



of the Natural History Society of Gorlitz ; the presidential inaugura- 

 tion exercises of the University of Minnesota; the Tenth Interna- 

 tional Congress of Geography, to which Mr. Henry G. Bryant was 

 appointed a delegate, and which has been postponed until 1912; the 

 jubilee of Giovanni Capellini, at which Carlo Emery represented the 

 Academy; the proposed acquisition of the birthplace of Louis Pas- 

 teur; the fiftieth anniversary of the founding of the Natural Science 

 Association of Cassel ; and the centennial anniversary of the founding 

 of King Frederic's University at Christiania, to which Professor G. O. 

 Sars was appointed as the Academy's representative. In cases 

 where it was found impracticable to appoint delegates, suitable 

 letters of congratulation were forwarded on behalf of the Academy. 

 In addition to the regular correspondence, the Corresponding Sec- 

 retary, on behalf of the Sub-committees on Publication and on 

 Meetings and Addresses of the proposed Centenary Celebration of 

 the Academy, issued a letter inviting the contribution of memoirs 

 to the Academy's programme to a selected list of correspondents, 

 many of whom have responded encouragingly and with expressions 

 appreciative of the work of the society. As a member of the Sub- 

 committee on Invitations, the Corresponding Secretary assisted in 

 the preparation of an invitation and of the list of societies and insti- 

 tutions to be invited to send delegates to the proposed celebration. 



The following communications have been received: 



Acknowledging the receipt of the Academy's pubHcations 214 



Transmitting publications to the Academy 60 



Requesting exchanges or the supply of deficiencies 7 



Invitations to learned gatherings, etc 17 



Notices of deaths of scientific men 5 



Circulars concerning the administration of scientific institutions, etc 19 



Photographs and biographies of correspondents 8 



Letters from correspondents 45 



Miscellaneous letters 89 



Total received 464 



The following communications have been forwarded: 



Acknowledging gifts to the Library 1,212 



Requesting the supply of deficiencies 17 



Acknowledging gifts to the Museum 64 



Acknowledging photographs and biographies 6 



Letters of sympathy or congratulation, addresses, etc 7 



Diplomas and notices of election of correspondents and delegates 20 



Letters to correspondents 119 



Miscellaneous letters 96 



Annual reports and circulars sent to correspondents 326 



Total forwarded 1,967 



Respectfully submitted, 



J. Percy Moore, Corresponding Secretary. 




1911.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



593 



REPORT OF THE LIBRARIAN. 



The past year has been uneventful but prosperous, so that there 

 is but little to be reported except the statistics of additions and 

 distribution. 



There has been received since the first of December, 1910, a total 

 of 9,158 accessions, 7,769 of which were pamphlets and parts of 

 periodicals; 1,243 volumes, and 146 maps. 



They were derived from the following sources: 



Exchanges from publishing 



societies 3,690 



I. V. WiUiamson Fund 2,196 



United States Department of 



Agriculture 809 



General appropriation 794 



American Entomological Society 709 



Mrs. Joseph M. Gazzam 275 



Authors 136 



J. Aiken Meigs Fund 124 



Editors, in exchange 90 



United States Bureau of Edu- 

 cation 58 



United States Department of 



the Interior 47 



Th9mas B. Wilson Fund 34 



United States Treasury Depart- 

 ment 24 



Pennsylvania Department of 



Health 20 



Witmer Stone 13 



Pan-American Union 12 



Ministerio de Agricultura, Ar- 

 gentine Republic 10 



Imperial Department of Agri- 

 culture, British West Indies ... . 9 

 New York Agricultural Experi- 

 ment Station 8 



Dr. Edw. J. Nolan 7 



Due d'Orleans 6 



Dr. Henry Tucker 6 



Commissioners of Fisheries and 



Game, Massachusetts 5 



Pennsylvania Department of 



Agriculture 5 



Publication Committee of the 



Academy 5 



Natural Ice Association of 



America 4 



War Department 4 



Danish Government 4 



Department of Commerce and 

 Labor 



Osservatorio "Baldini" 



East Indian Government 



George F. Kunz 



Commission of Conservation, 

 Canada 



Dr. S. Solis Cohen 



Dr. H. A. Pilsbry 



New Zealand Department of 

 Lands 



Estacion Sismologica de Cartuja 



Massachusetts Agricultural Ex- 

 periment Station 



Department of Fisheries, New 

 South Wales 



French Government 



Warren M. Foote 



Delaware County Institute of 

 Science 



Wisconsin Geological and 

 Natural History Survey 



Geological Survey of Georgia 



Geological Survey of Alabama. . . . 



Dr. Thomas Biddle 



Dr. J. W. Harshberger 



Botanical Survey of India 



Madame Leo Errera 



Florida State Geological Survey.. 



Isthmian Canal Commission 



Bureau of Surveys Philadelphia . 



Sir Robert W. Best 



Amos P. Brown 



Ilhnois Bureau of Labor Sta- 

 tistics 



Augustana College 



Department of P^isheries, Penn- 

 sylvania 



Dr. Samuel G. Dixon 



William J. Fox 



Minnesota Historical Societv 



These' additions were distributed to the several departments of the 

 library as follows: 



Journals 5,871 



Agriciilture 1,690 



Geology 603 



Botany r 217 



General Natural History 116 



Entomology 102 




594 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



Geography 102 Mineralogy, 18 



Voyages and Travels 82 Physical Sciences 18 



Anatomy and Physiology 74 Helminthology 10 



Anthropology 37 Medicine 10 



Ornithology 31 Mammalogy 7 



Conchology 30 Chemistry 4 



Encyclopedias 29 Mathematics 4 



Bibliography 19 Herpetology 2 



Ichthyology 18 Unclassified 64 



Among the more important of these accessions may be mentioned : 



Encyclopedia Britannica. Twenty-nine volumes. 11th edition. 



Poda, N., Insecla Musei Groscensis. 1761. 



Mission du Service Geographique de I'Armee pour la Mesure d'un Arc de Meridien 



equatorial en Amerique du Sud. 

 Denton, S. F., Moths and Butterflies of the United States. 

 Felder, S., Lepidoptera of the Novara Expedition, with colored plates. 

 Spalowsky, J. J.. Prodromus in Systema hisloricum Testaceorum. 

 Sprengel, C., Das entdeckte Geheimniss der Natur. 1793. 



The exchange list has been increased by the addition of the fol- 

 lowing: 



Queensland Naturalist. Brisbane. 



Forestry Quarterly. Ithaca. 



Jahresbericht und Verhandlungsn des Ornithologischen Vereins zu Munchen. 



Bulletin et Memoires, Societe Fribourgeoise des Sciences Naturelles. Fribourg. 



Lloyd Library (Publications). Cincinnati. 



Atti delle I. R. Accademia di Scienze, Lettere ed Arti degli Agiati in Rovereto. 



Actes de la Museum d'Histoire Naturelle de Rouen. 



Bulletin de la Societe Botanique des Deux Sevres. Niort. 



Mitlheilungen der Wiener Miner alogischen Gesellschaft. Wien. 



Annals of the Cyprus Natural History Society. Nicosia. 



Bulletin of the Natural History Society of British Columbia. Victoria. 



Mededeelingen, Phytopathologisch Laboratorium "Willie Commelin SchoUen." 



Amsterdam. 

 Arhiva, Organul Societatii Stiintifice si Literare di Tasi. Jassy. 

 Bulletin, Societe des Sciences historiques et naturelles de la Corse. Bastia. 

 Bulletin of Southern California Academy of Sciences. Los Angeles. 

 Mitlheilungen der Naturforschenden Gesellschaft in Solothurn. 

 Proceedings of the University of Durham Philosophical Society. Durham. 

 Bulletin of the Philosophical Society of the University of Virginia. Charlottesville. 

 American Forestry. Washington. 



Agricultural Bulletin of the Straits and Federated Malay States. Singapore. 

 Agri-Horticultural Society of Madras. Madras. 

 Journal of the Washington Academy of Sciences. Washington. 

 Zeitschrift der naturwissenschaftlichen Abtheilung (Deutsche Gesellschaft f. 



Kunst und Wissenschaft in Posen). Posen. 

 Annual Reports and Proceedings of the Chester Society of Natural Science, Litera' 



ture and Art. Chester. 

 Botanikai (Noventani) Kozlemenyek. Budapesth. Complete set. 



The following new journals have been purchased: 



Bulletin de la Societe Royale Linneenne de Bruxelles. Annee 17-31. 

 Wiltshire Archeological and Natural History Magazine, Devizes. Vols. 1-32. 

 Cactus Journal, London. Two volumes. 



Natural History Journal and School of Arts, London. Seven volumes. 

 Report and Proceedings of the Manchester Field Naturalists' and Archeologists' 

 Society, Manchester. 1860-1887. 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 595 



Physikalische Belustigungen, Berlin. Ten parts in two volumes (1751-55). 

 Flore des Serves, Gand. Twenty-three volumes. 



Memorie della Societd Crittogamologica Italiana, Varese. Two volumes. 

 Proceedings of the Zoological and Acclimatisation Society, Victoria, Melbourne. 



Five volumes. 

 Transactions of the Philosophical Society of New South Wales, Sydney. One 



volume. 

 Tasmanian Journal of Natural Science, etc., Hobarttown. Three volumes^ 

 Giornale di Anatomia, Fisiologica e Patologica degli Animali, Pisa. Twenty-three 



volumes. 

 Flora, Regensburg. Vols. 3-25. 

 Garden and Forest, New York. Ten volumes. 

 Rheinisches Magazin zur Erweiterung der Naturkunde, Giessen. One volume 



(1793). 



The following have been added to the subscription list, complete 



sets having been secured when desirable: 



Journal of Genetics. Cambridge. 



Das Weltall, Berlin. 



Denkschriften, Medicinisch-Naturmssenschaftliche Gesellschaft zu Jena. 



American Botanist, Joliet. 



Archives de Psychologic, Geneve. 



Abhandlungen und Sitzung.sberichte, Heidelberger Akademie der Wissenschaften, 



Math.-naturwissenschaftliche Klasse, Heidelberg. 

 Zentralhlatt f. Roentgenstrahlen, Radium, etc., Wiesbaden. 

 Revista de Ciencias, Lima. 

 Beitrdge zur Pflanzenwelt, Berlin. 



Notwithstanding the fact that the annual appropriation for the 

 purchase of books was somewhat curtailed, the additions made to 

 the library number 1,555 more than those of the preceding year. 

 This is partly accounted for by Mrs. Gazzam's gift of 275 dupli- 

 cate volumes of Pennsylvania Geological Survey Reports, and the 

 transfer from the library of the Entomological Section of 709 reports 

 of Agricultural Stations, but it is mainly owing to successful efforts 

 to secure exchanges and deficiencies. 



Thirty-two pamphlets received in duplicate from the Department 

 of Agriculture were, as required by law, returned to Washington. 



An oil portrait of Dr. John L. LeConte, by L. G. Seybert, the 

 gift of Mrs. LeConte, was formally presented at the meeting of April 

 18, by Dr. Henry Skinner, who commented on the work and services 

 of the distinguished entomologist. 



I am indebted to my assistant, Mr. William J. Fox, for the per- 

 formance of much of the routine work of the year, thereby enabling 

 me to give more time than would otherwise have been possible to 

 the interests of the approaching Centenary, about which more is said 

 in the Report of the Recording Secretary. 



My junior assistant, Mr. Furman Sheppard Wilde, has also been, 

 in the discharge of his duties, intelligent and loyal. 



Edward J. Nolan, Librarian. 




596 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC.y 



REPORT OF THE CURATORS. 



During the past year the Academy received from the Common- 

 wealth of Pennsylvania an appropriation of $75,000 for the purpose 

 of completing the alterations and additions to the building outlined 

 in the plans prepared several years ago, and intended to safe- 

 guard the institution against fire and to render more complete the 

 library, museum, and teaching plant. 



The alterations now under way comprise a brick casing to the 

 south wall of the old green stone building, the addition of two stories 

 to the connecting building on Nineteenth Street, containing the 

 local museum, and the addition of granite and terra-cotta trimmings 

 to make it uniform with the other buildings; the complete remodel- 

 ling of the old library hall for museum purposes, the walling ofif of the 

 herbarium rooms, recoating of the roof of the main museum and the 

 addition of new skylights; also the fireproofing of exposed iron work, 

 the substitution of concrete for wooden floors, improvement of the 

 old cellar, and the extension of the electric lighting and plumbing 

 systems. Metal cases are also to be provided in the hall formerly 

 used for the library. 



The work was begun in October, and is to be finished in time for 

 the Academy's Centennial Celebration, in March. The preparations 

 for the alterations involved the closing of the entire museum except 

 the Archaeological and Mineralogical and the Mammal floors and 

 the removal of most of the exhibits, as well as the entire Entomo- 

 logical Department to temporary quarters. It has therefore been 

 impossible to institute any improvements in the arrangement of 

 the exhibition collections, although certain important additions 

 have been made to them. 



A large amount of research and routine work has, however, been 

 accomplished by the members of the scientific staff, as outlined in 

 the accompanying special reports. In addition. Dr. J. Percy Moore 

 has continued his studies on the deep-sea Annelids dredged in the 

 North Pacific by expeditions of the U. S. Bureau of Fisheries, Leland 

 Stanford Junior University, and the University of California, and on 

 collections made by several persons along the coast of California. 

 Descriptions of new forms have been published in the Proceedings 

 and cotypes and duplicates reserved for the Academy's collection. 

 The collections of worms have been cared for as usual and assistance 

 has been rendered to various individuals and institutions in the 

 identification of specimens and in giving information. 




1911.] NATURAL SCIP^NCES OF PHILADF.LPHIA. 597' 



Mr. H. W. Fowler has continued the care of the collection of" 

 fishes and has critically studied the Apodal and Salmonoid groups 

 and prepared a number of papers for the Proceedings. Miss 

 H. N. Wardle has looked after the Archeological collections as 

 heretofore. 



In addition, the Curators are indebted to Mr. Morgan Hebard 

 for having a large number of the Orthoptera obtained on recent 

 expeditions mounted; and to Messrs. S. S. Van Pelt and Bayard 

 Long for valuable aid in the care of the local collection of plants. 



Numerous local field trips have been taken during the year by 

 members of the staff and considerable additions made thereby to 

 the collections of fishes, insects and plants. Mr. Rehn, accompanied 

 by Mr. Morgan Hebard, also visited Georgia and Florida, and 

 Mr. Stone the mountains of western Maryland. 



Early in the year, through the liberality of Mr. Francis E. Bond, 

 an expedition was undertaken to the Orinoco delta and other parts 

 of northern Venezuela, in the interests of the Academy. Mr. Bond 

 was accompanied by Mr. Stewardson Brown and Mr. Thomas S. 

 Gillen, and valuable collections, especially of birds, insects, and 

 plants, were obtained. Several groups of the birds and mammals 

 have been mounted and placed on exhibition and reports are being 

 prepared on the various collections. 



Mr. Clarence B. Moore has continued his investigation of the 

 Indian mounds of the Southern States and has added many valuable 

 specimens to his collection, for the accommodation of which he has 

 presented another mahogany and plate-glass case. The Academy 

 also supported in part an expedition made by Mr. H. W. Wenzel, Jr., 

 to the mountains of southern Texas, from which it received a valuable 

 series of insects and a few reptiles. 



Noteworthy among the accessions of the year is a skeleton of an 

 adult male sperm whale, which came ashore at Ocean City, N. J.,, 

 and was secured for the Academy through the prompt and intelligent 

 action of Mr. William B. Davis and the generosity of the Ocean 

 City Life-Saving Crew. 



An important collection of East Indian birds was obtained by 

 purchase and also a fine bull Buffalo, the latter from the Zoological 

 Society of Philadelphia. 



Seventy-three storage cases, 250 insect boxes and six plate-glass 

 and mahogany exhibition cases were purchased during the year. 



There has been a marked increase in the attendance of visitors 

 to the Museum, especially of classes of school children accompanied 

 by their teachers. 




598 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



Specimens have been loaned to Samuel G. Dixon, Henry A. 

 Pilsbry, Witmer Stone, Henry Tucker, C. S. Sargent, Thomas Bar- 

 bour, E. W. Nelson, Robt. Ridgway, Geo. H. Girty, Edgar A. 

 Mearns, R. W. Shufeldt, Julia A. Gardner, Mary J. Rathbun, and 

 H. C. Oberholser. 



Samuel G. Dixon, 

 Henry A. Pilsbry, 

 Witmer Stone, 

 Henry Tucker. 



Report of the Department of Mollusca. 



Work on the collection of mollusks has been confined to the 

 study-series during this year, as it has seemed inexpedient to begin 

 projected changes in the public exhibition until the alteration of the 

 building is completed. Fifteen new storage cases gave opportunity 

 for the arrangement of the current additions to the collection, with 

 the exception of the Unionidae, which remain unprotected for the 

 time being. The dust-proof storage cases now installed number 156, 

 each holding 16 trays of 3.38 square feet area. The total space 

 now occupied by the dry collection of mollusks is as follows: 



Double table-cases, glazed tops 43, with an area of 2,057 sq. ft. 



Drawers below same 624, " " "2,121 " " 



Storage cases 156, " " "7,914 " " 



Total area 12,092 sq. ft. 



From South America we have received valuable lots from 

 Venezuela, collected by Mr. S. Brown, of the F. E. Bond Expedition; 

 from Ecuador, collected by Mr. S. N. Rhoads, and from Jamaica, 

 collected by Dr. Amos P. Brown. Dr. C. M. Cooke, of Honolulu, 

 and D. D. Baldwin, of Maui, have contributed needed material 

 from the Hawaiian Islands, and Mr. A. Haycock gave paratypes 

 of the new species discovered by him in Bermuda. Our North 

 American collection has been increased by gifts from Messrs. J, A. 

 Allen, J. H. Ferriss, L. E. Daniels, C. B. Moore, G. H. Clapp and 

 many others. 



In the Manual of Conchology a monograph of the sub-family 

 Amastrinse has been completed, and our very large collection of these 

 snails has been revised and arranged. The American Sphceriidce and 

 the mollusks of Bermuda in our collection have been worked over 

 by Mr. Vanatta. 




191 1;-] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 599 



The assistance rendered by Dr. Amos P. Brown, who has co- 

 operated with the Curator in working up collections made by him 

 in Jamaica, is gratefully acknowledged. 



In the absence of a palaeontologist, the Curator has, with the 

 volunteer assistance of Dr. A. P. Brown, taken up much-needed 

 work on the palseontological collection, which, on account of the 

 large number of type specimens, is one of the most important in 

 America. Various brief publications on Miocene and Cretaceous 

 Mollusca have grown out of the work done on the collections. Dr. 

 Brown has collaborated in studies on the Oligocene fauna of the 

 Isthmus of Panama. The results have been published in the Pro- 

 ceedings, and the material, comprising numerous types, placed in 

 the Museum. 



H. A. PiLSBRY, 



Special Curator Department of Mollusca. 



Report of Curator of William S. Vaux Collection. 



During the past year there has been added to the William S. Vaux 

 Collections eleven specimens of minerals, which, while few in number, 

 are of exceptional value and interest. Among those deserving 

 special mention are meteorites from York County, Pa., a large twin 

 titanite from Canada, and two native silvers from Lake Superior. 



Respectfully submitted, 



F. J. Keeley, 

 Curator Wm. S. Vaux Collection. 



REPORTS OF THE SECTIONS. 

 Biological and Microscopical Section. 



Nine stated and several informal meetings of the Section have 

 been held during the year, with the usual attendance. Two new 

 members have been added and one resignation has occurred. 



The work of the year has consisted of miscellaneous communica- 

 tions, the most important of which, Micro-Spectroscopic Observations, 

 by Mr. F. J. Keeley, was presented at the meeting with the Academy 

 and is published in the Proceedings. 



The Conservator reports an addition to the Museum of three 

 hundred and ten slides of microscopic objects, the gift of Dr. J. 

 Cheston Morris. 




6(K) PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP [DcC., 



The officers elected for the year 1912 are as follows: 



Director J. Cheston Morris, M.D. 



Vice-Director T. Chalkley Palmer. 



Recorder .....Charles S. Boyer. 



Treasurer Thomas S. Stewart, M.D. 



Correspondinrj Secretary Silas L. Schumo. 



Conservator F. J. Keeley. 



Charles S. Boyer, 



Recorder. 



Entomological Section. 



The usual meetings of the Section have been held and the com- 

 munications made have been published in Entomological News. 



During the year 8,398 specimens of insects have been added to 

 the collection, and a considerable part of this number have been 

 incorporated with the various sections of the cabinet. Sixteen tin 

 cases have been purchased, fifty glass-covered boxes, and 201 Schmidt 

 boxes. 



The determination of the Diptera is being continued and several 

 lots sent in by collectors have contained species that were new to the 

 cabinet. These additions have in some cases necessitated the 

 rearrangement of families. The collection of southwestern Hemip- 

 tera determined by Mr. E. P. Van Duzee last year is being incor- 

 porated into the general collection. In the Orthoptera a large 

 amount of work has been done on African material; the North 

 American series has been rearranged and the exotic collections as 

 far as determined. 



The Bruner collection of Orthoptera, containing 22,000 specimens 

 and 600 types, purchased by Mr. Morgan Hebard, has been deposited. 



When the new rooms for the department are completed Mr. 

 Hebard will also place on deposit his own large collection of these 

 insects; 



In the order Hymenoptera the family Microgasterinae has been 

 rearranged. 



The Micro-lepidoptera have all been mounted preparatory to the 

 rearrangement of these moths. 



The F. E. Bond Collection made in Venezuela by Prof. Stewardson 

 Brown, contained over a thousand specimens. These, as well as 

 the material collected in southern Texas by Henry A. Wenzel, have 

 been mounted. 




19U.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 601 



Dr. Calvert has continued to care for the Odonata and the thanks 

 of the department are due him. 



Volume XXII of the Entomological News has been completed 

 with 480 pages and 19 plates; Transactions of the American 

 Entomological Society (Entomological Section), 380 pages and 

 13 plates. 



At a meeting of the Section held December 11 the following were 

 elected officers to serve for the coming year: 



Director Philip Laurent. 



Vice-Director Henry W. Wenzel. 



Treasurer E. T. Cresson. 



Conservator Henry Skinner. 



Secretary J. A. G. Rehn. 



Recorder. Henry Skinner. 



Publication Committee E. T. Cresson, 



E. T. Cresson, Jr. 



Henry Skinner, 



Recorder. 



Botanical Section. 



During the year, twenty metal dust- and insect-proof cases have 

 been added to the furnishing of the herbarium, and six wooden cases 

 transfered from the general herbarium to the local room, to provide 

 additional space for that rapidly growing collection. 



Early in the year, the Conservator went to Venezuela as a member 

 of the Francis E. Bond Expedition, when a collection of 850 sheets 

 of plants was made. The herbarium of the late Robert E. Griffiths, 

 presented by Dr. Astley P. C. Ashhurst and Dr. William Ashhurst; 

 the herbarium of Dr. Thomas S. Githens, presented by the collector, 

 and a collection of plants of the Yellowstone made by Mr. Benjamin 

 H. Smith have also been added. There have been received through 

 exchange, 112 sheets from the New York Botanical Garden, 102 

 sheets from the Gray Herbarium and 60 sheets from the United 

 States National Museum. The Section has purchased a series of 

 181 sheets of North American Violets from Prof. Ezra Brainard and 

 395 sheets of Nevada and Oregon plants from A. A. Heller. 



The local herbarium, under the care of Mr. Samuel S. Van Pelt, 

 has been increased during the year by 3,768 sheets, received princi- 

 pally from members of the Philadelphia Botanical Club. In addi- 

 tion, the local plants in the general herbarium have been transferred, 




602 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [D^c'./ 



thus b'ringing all the collections of our region together in one series. 

 Mr. Bayard Long has continued his valuable services during the 

 year. "and acknowledgment is made of the continued services of 

 Miss Ada 'Allen as assistant in the herbarium. 



At the annual meeting of the Section, held November 23, the 

 following officers were elected: 



Director Benjamin H. Smith. 



Vice-Director Joseph Crawford. 



Recorder Charles S. WilUamson. 



Treasurer and Conservator Stewardson Brown. 



Respectfully submitted, 



Stewardson Brown, 



Conservator. 



MiNERALOGICAL AND GEOLOGICAL SECTION. 



The Section has held four meetings this year, with about the 

 average attendance. A communication was made by Mr. S. Herbert 

 Hamilton on exact surveying methods for the geological delineation 

 of ore bodies, especially magnetite, besides some shorter com- 

 munications and various discussions. 



There were five field excursions, with an average attendance of 20. 

 The parties visited: (1) A line of Cambrian quartzites and lime- 

 stones between Westtown and Brinton's Bridge, Delaware County; 

 (2) Crystalline rocks and their minerals near the southern edge of 

 Delaware County; (3) The New Red rocks near Jacksonwald, 

 Berks County; (4) The New Red rocks near Mt. Monocacy, Berks 

 County;. (5) The New Red rocks near the Ecton and Perkiomen 

 Mines and Valley Forge, Montgomery County. 



The following officers of the Section have been elected for the 

 year 1912: 



Director Benjamin Smith Lyman. 



Vice-Director Frank J. Keeley. 



Recorder and Secretary Silas L. Schumo. 



Treasurer William B. Davis. 



Conservator George Vaux, Jr. 



Respectfully submitted by order of the Section, 



Benjamin Smith Lyman, 



Director^ 




1911',] natural sciences of philadelphia. 603 



Report of the Ornithological Section. 



Work in the Ornithological department during the past year has 

 consisted mainly in the labelling and cataloguing of the numerous 

 accessions and in the rearrangement of a large portion of the Pas&erine 

 birds in the exhibition series and a number of families in the study 

 series. In this work the Conservator is much indebted to Mr. J. A. G. 

 Rehn for valuable assistance. 



Twelve storage cases and two large exhibition cases have been 

 procured for the better accommodation of the collections. 



Among the most important accessions were a collection of birds 

 from the East Indies, obtained by purchase, a fine series of Vene- 

 zuelan bird secured by the Francis E. Bond Expedition, and a large 

 number of local birds, nests and eggs for the Delaware Valley Or- 

 nithological Club from the late Francis W. Rawle, Robert T. Moore, 

 and others. 



The Delaware Valley Ornithological Club, Spencer F, Baird 

 Club and the Pennsylvania Audubon Society have held their meetings 

 at the Academy during the year, and November 13-16 the American 

 Ornithologists' Union assembled at the Academy for their twenty- 

 ninth stated meeting, which proved to be one of the most successful 

 in the history of the society. 



The annual meeting of the Section was held on December 5, and 

 the following officers were elected for the ensuing year: 



Director Spencer Trotter, M.D. 



Vice-Director George Spencer Morris. 



Recorder Stewardson Brown. 



■Corresponding Secretary William A. Shryock. 



Treasurer and Conservator Witmer Stone. 



WiTMER Stone, 



Conservator. 



The annual election of Officers, Councillors and Members of the 

 Committee on Accounts to serve during 1912 was held, with the 

 following result: 



President Samuel G. Dixon, M.D., LL.D. 



Vice-Presidents Edwin G. Conklin, A.M., Ph.D., 



Sc.D., 

 John Cadwalader. 

 Recording Secretary Edward J. Nolan, M.D. 




'604 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



Corresponding Secretary J. Percy Moore, Ph.D. 



Treasurer George Vaux, Jr. 



Librarian Edward J. Nolan, M.D. 



Curators Samuel G. Dixon, M.D., LL.t)., 



Henry A. Pilsbry, Sc.D., 

 Witmer Stone, A.M., 

 Henry Tucker, M.D. 



'Councillors to serve three years Charles B. Penrose, A. M,, 



LL.D., Ph.D., M.D., 

 Charles Morris, 

 Spencer Trotter, M.D. , 

 Wilham E. Hughes, M.D. 



Committee on Accounts Charles Morris, 



Samuel N. Rhoads, 

 John G. Rothermel, 

 Thomas H. Montgomery, Ph.D., 

 Thomas S. Stewart, M.D. 



COUNCIL FOR 1912. 



Ex-Officio. — Samuel G. Dixon, M.D., LL.D., Edwin G. Conklin, 

 A.M., Ph.D., John Cadwalader, Edward J. Nolan, M.D., J. 

 Percy Moore, Ph.D., George Vaux, Jr., Henry A. Pilsbry, 

 Sc.D., Witmer Stone, A.M., Henry Tucker, M.D. 



To serve three years. — Charles B. Penrose, A.M., M.D., LL.D., 

 Ph.D., Charles Morris, Spencer Trotter, M.D., William E. 

 Hughes, M.D. 



To serve two years. — Thomas H. Fenton, M.D., Edwin S. Dixon, 

 Henry Skinner, M.D., Sc.D., Robert G. LeConte, M.D. 



To serve one year. — Philip P. Calvert, Ph.D., Thomas Biddle, M.D., " 

 Frederick Prime, A.M., Ph.D., Frank J. Keeley. 



Councillor , George Vaux, Jr. 



Curator of MollUsca Henry A. Pilsbry, Sc.D. 



Curator of the William S. Vaux 



Collections Frank J. Keeley. 



Assistant Librarian WiUiam J. Fox. 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 605 



Assistants toCurators Henry Skinner, M.D., 



Stewardson Brown, 

 J. Percy Moore, Ph.D., 

 Edward Vanatta, 

 Henry W. Fowler, 

 James A. G. Rehn, 

 Ezra T. Cresson, Jr. 



Aid in Archaeology Harriet Newell Wardle. 



Aid in Herbarium Ada Allen. 



Assistant in Library Furman Sheppard Wilde. 



Taxidermist David N. McCadden. 



Janitors Charles Clappier, 



Daniel Heckler, 

 James Tague, 

 Jacob Aebley, 

 Adam E. Heckler. 



STANDING COMMITTEES. 



Finance. — John Cadwalader, E. S. Dixon, Effingham B. Morris, 



William D. Winsor, the Treasurer. 

 Publications. — Henry Skinner, M.D., Sc.D., Witmer Stone, A.M., 



Henry A. Pilsbry, Sc.D., WiUiam J. Fox, Edward J. Nolan, M.D. 

 Library. — Thomas H. Fenton, M.D., George Vaux, Jr., Henry 



Tucker, M.D., Frank J. Keeley, Thomas Biddle, M.D. 

 Instruction and Lectures. — Henry A. Pilsbry, Sc.D., Charles 



Morris, Witmer Stone, A.M., Henry Tucker, M.D., George 



Spencer Morris. 

 Committee of Council on By-Laws. — Thomas Fenton, M.D., 



John Cadwalader, Charles B. Penrose, M.D., Witmer Stone, 



A.M. 



ELECTIONS IN 1911. 



Members. 



January 17. — Bertram Lippincott, David E. Dallam, Thomas G. 



Ashton, M.D., WilHam Pepper, M.D., George W. Norris, M.D., 



Wilmer Krusen, M.D., Wm. J. Conlen, Parke Longnecker, 



D.D.S., Francis E. Bond, G. L. S. Jamison, M.D., Lynford 



40 




606 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



Biddle, E. Hollingsworth Siter, M.D., Charles Stewart Wurts, 



Collier F. Martin, M.D., W. S. Newcomett, M.D. 

 February 21.- — Edward A. Schumann, M.D., Alexander Brown, 



William H. Ran, Alexander A. Uhle, M.D., Mrs. Arthur Biddle. 

 March 21.^ — John Howard McFadden, Bayard Long, Edwin S. 



Stuart. 

 April 18. — George B. Wood, M.D., David Greg Methany, M.D. 

 May 16.— Henry Morris, M.D., H. C. Meyer, G. Carl Huber, M.D. 

 October 17. — Ulrie Dahlgren, John Sinnott. 



Correspondents. 



January 17. — Walter Rothschild, Ph.D., of Tring. 



May 16.— David Starr Jordan, M.D., Ph.D., LL.D., of Leland 

 Stanford Junior University; Jacques Loeb, M.D., Ph.D., of New 

 York; Edmund Beecher Wilson, M.D., Ph.D., LL.D., of New 

 York; Thomas Wayland Vaughan, A.M., Ph.D., of Washington; 

 William Bullock Clark, LL.D., Ph.D., of Baltimore. 




1911.1 NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 607 



ADDITIONS TO THE MUSEUM, 1911. 



Ethnology and Anthropology. 



Miss Sarah Benners. Javanese basket. 



Dr. a. E. Brown Estate. Collection of African and Philippine weapons, 

 Indian moccasins, etc. 



E. K. Bispham. Indian stone ball. 



F. E. Bond Venezuelan Expedition. Curial (native canoe), Venezuela. 

 Baskets, machets, and paddhs. Two ornaments, made by coolies of Trinidad. 



Capt. George L. Dardeau. One whaling spade. 



Miss A. L. Flannigen. Russian fur shppers. 



Rear- Admiral George W. Melville. Battle-axe, Norton Sound, Alaska; 

 Eskimo soapstone lamp, Greenland. 



Clarence B. Moore. Archaeological material from Ontario, New York, 

 Pennsylvania, Ohio, Illinois, Mississippi, Arkansas, Georgia, Florida and Cali- 

 fornia. 



Miss Emily S. Musgrave. Plaited fan, Samoa. 



Mrs. Charles Shaeffer. Nine Ala.skan spoons, pipe and other implements. 



Miss H. N. Wardle. Artifacts from ancient quarry sites, Berks and Lehigh 

 Counties, Pa. 



Mammals. 



Mrs. R. L. Ashhurst. Skin of Polar Bear (Thalarctos maritimus), Greenland. 



Wilson B. Atkins. Silky guinea-pig {Cavia porcellus), mounted. 



F. E. Bond Venezuelan Expedition. Collection of thirteen mammals from 

 Venezuela. 



Alexander Brown. Two mounted heads of Osborn's Caribou {Rangifer 

 osborni), Stikeen River, B. C. 



Ocean City Lif^b-saving Crew. Skeleton of Sperm Whale {Physeter macro- 

 cephalus), Ocean City, N. J. 



Purchased. Male American Bison {Bison bison) [skin and skeleton]. 



Purchased. Bonaparte's Weasel (Pulorius cicognani), Walnut Hill, Phila- 

 delphia. 



Purchased. Five mounted local shrews, bats and rodents. 



S. N. Rhoads. Two Franklin's Spermophiles {Citellus franklini), Tuckerton, 

 N.J. 



Dr. Robert W. Shufeldt. Skin of Grivet Giienon (Cercopithecus sabceus), 

 Abyssinia. 



E. F. Stewart. Gray Fox {Urocyon cinereoargenteus) , Palermo, N. J. 



Herman Walters. Skin and skull of variety of domestic Cat (Felis domes- 

 licus) . 



Lieut. Hugh Willoughby. Skin and skull of Syke's Guenon {Cercopithecus 

 albigularis) . 



Zoological Society of Philadelphia. Specimens presented as follows: 




608 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [DeC, 



Mounted — Suricate {Suricata tetradadyla) [skull preserved separate]; Long- 

 tailed Weasel (Ptdorius longicauda); Dwarf Lemur (Microcebus myoxinus); 

 Texan Ocelot {Felis limitis); Oak Dormouse {Dryomys nitedula); European 

 Hamster (Cricetus cricetus). To be mounted — White-collared Mangabey 

 {Cercocebus coUaris) [skull preserved separate]. Skin and Skull — Arctic Fox 

 (Vulpes lagopus); Wallaby (Macropus sp.?); Beech Marten {Mustela foina); 

 Sable Antelope {Hippotragus niger); California Sea-lion {Zalophus calif or- 

 nianus); Oak Dormouse (Dryomys nitedula); Stair's Guenon (Cercopithecus slairsi); 

 Guenon (Cercopithecus sp.)- Skeleton — Zebra (Equus burchelli subsp.). Skull — 

 Chimpanzee {Pan troglodytes). Female Brazilian Tapir (Tapirus terrestris) 

 preserved as skin and skeleton with foetus and placenta in alcohol. 



Birds. 



Mrs. Samuel B. Ashmead. Two cases of mounted birds. 



Dr. Conrad Behrens. Male Red-breasted Merganser (Mergus serrator), 

 Rehoboth, Del. 



Miss Sarah Benners. Bird of Paradise (Paradisea apoda). 



F. E. Bond Venezuelan Expedition. Collection of 500 skins of Venezuelan 

 birds. 



Mrs. C. E. Darr. Java Sparrow (Munia oryzivora). 



Delaware Valley Ornithological Club. One hundred and fifty birds, 

 twelve nests and eggs, mainly from Francis W. Rawle and Robert T. Moore. 



Exchange with H. W. Coale. Six skins of exotic birds. 



John L. Ferguson. Case of mounted birds. 



Wm. Guier. Two Resplendent Trogons (Pharomacrus mocinno), Costa Rica. 



T. R. Hill. Yellow-headed Conure {Conurus pertinax). 



Dr. Wm. E. Hughes. Mounted Canvas-back Duck {Aythya vallisneria) 

 and skin of Ring-necked Duck {Aythya collaris), Chesapeake Bay. 



Hon. David Martin. European StarUng {Sturnus vulgaris), Philadelphia. 



Mrs. Walter Murphy. Loon {Gavia imber), Maine. 



C. J. Pennock. Horned Lark {Otocoris alpestris), Delaware City, Del. 



Purchased. Two Dusky Seaside Sparrows {Passerherbulus nigrescens) , Florida,. 



Purchased. Fifteen hundred skins of Celebean and Bornean birds. 



S. N. Rhoads. European StarUng {Sturnus vulgaris), Camden County, 

 N. J.; Screech Owl {Otus asio), Haddonfield, N. J.; Woodcock {Philohela 

 minor), Camden County, N. J. 



F. H. Senpt. One Honey-creeper {Coereba). 



Charles Stafford. Two European StarUngs {Sturnus vulgaris), Camden 

 County, N. J. 



Lauren Tremper. Nest and eggs of White-eyed Vireo {Vireo griseus). 



Zoological Society of Philadelphia. Australian Cassowary {Casuarius 

 auslralis); Papuan Cassowary {Casuarius papuanus); mounted. Whooping 

 Swan {Cygnus olor), skin and sternum; Kaffir Barbet {Trachyphonus cafer), 

 skin; Great Vasa Parrot {Coracopsis vaza), skin; Chough {Monedula pyrrho- 

 corax), skin; Rhinoceros Hornbill {Buceros rhinoceros), skeleton. 



Reptiles and Amphibians. 

 Academy Expedition, 1911 (Rehn). Collection of reptiles and amphibians^ 

 Florida, Georgia, South and North Carolina. 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 609 



Herman Behr. Jar of amphibians, Jennings, Md. 



William Beisel. Jar of salamanders {Desmognathus fusca), Pennsville, N. J. 



Victor Blucher, Albert Thompson and H. L. Mather, Jr. Collection 

 of salamanders, Gladwynne, Pa. 



F. E. Bond Venezuelan Expedition. Collection of reptiles and batrachians 

 from Venezuela. 



Estate of Dr. A. E. Brown. A collection of reptiles and batrachians. 



Miss H. L. Cooke. Carapace of Tortoise. 



Dr. Ellersly. Chrysemys marginata, Indiana. 



H. W. Fowler. Spelerpes ruber, Philadelphia. 



Morgan Hebard. Small collection of reptiles and amphibians, Florida 

 Keys, Fla. 



Dr. C. F. Martin. Painted Turtle (Chrysemys pida). 



H. L. Mather, Jr. Six lots of local reptiles and amphibians. 



W. M. Meigs. Young Siren (Siren lacertina), Florida. 



Richard F. Miller. Small lot of reptiles and amphibians, Philadelphia. 



Robert Morris. Thamnophis sirtalis, Philadelphia. 



Dr. H. a. Pilsbrv. Painted Turtle (Chrysemys pida), Riverside, N. J. 



Silas L. Schumo. Carapace of Malacodemys, Barnegat Bay, N. J.; Young 

 turtle. 



Samuel C. Scoville. Timber Rattlesnake (Crotalus horridus), Litchfield 

 County, Conn. 



WiTMER Stone. Collection of salamanders and frogs and snakes, Garrett 

 County, Md. 



A. Thompson and H. L. Mather, Jr. Three amphibians, Montgomery 

 County, Pa. 



Dr. Henry Tucker. Fence Lizard (Sceloporus undulatus), Cape May, N. J. 



R. W. Wehrle. Twenty-two small collections of amphibians, Indiana 

 County, Pa. 



H. W. Wenzel. (Academy Expedition in part). Collection of reptiles, 

 southwestern Texas. 



Fishes. 



Dr. C. C. Abbott. Young Pseudopleuronedes and two Gasterosteus aculecUus, 

 Raritan Bay, N. J. 



Dr. C. C. Abbott and H. W. Fowler. Jar of fishes, Trenton, N. J. 



C. S. Abbott, Jr. Two teeth of Car char odon and rostrum of young Saw-fish 

 (Pristis). 



Herman Behr. Jar of fishes, Jennings, Md. 



Miss Sarah Benners. Jaws of Scaroid fish (Scarus sp.). 



F. E. Bond Venezuelan Expedition. Collection of fishes, Venezuela. 



Hon. N. R. Buller. Four Short-nosed Sturgeons (Acipenser brevirostrum) , 

 Torresdale, Pa. 



H. W. Fowler. Achirus and young Cenlropristis, Cape May County, N. J.; 

 Microgadus tomcod, Philadelphia Market; Pseudopleuronedes, Perca and Micro- 

 pogon, Baltimore, Md.; barrel of fishes, Watchapreague, Va.; four lots of local 

 fishes, Pennsylvania and New Jersey. 



W. J. Fox. Rachycentron canadus (young). Sea Isle City, N. J.; Aluiera and 

 Squatina, Sea Isle City, N. J. 




610 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



B. H. Gledhill. Lepomis incisor, Tomlin, N. J. 



Morgan Hebard. Small collection of fishes, Lake Superior region, Michigan. 

 Academy and Hebard Expedition op 1910. Three species of fishes, Santa 

 Catalina Island, California. 



C. J. Hunt. Eight Notropis atherinoides, Chicago, 111. 



W. T. Innes, Jr. Jar of fishes, CaUfornia and British Columbia. 



W. T. Innes, Jr., and H. W. Fowler. Collection of fishes, Maryland and 

 Delaware. 



T. D. Keim. Jar of fishes. Long Island, N. Y. 



T. D. Keim and H. W. Fowler. Five jars of fishes, Maryland and Penn- 

 sylvania. 



Frank Leaming and H. W. Fowler. Three jars of fishes, Cape May County, 

 N.J. 



D. McCadden. Small collection of fishes. Ocean City, N. J. ; Young Tautog 

 (Tautoga), Ocean City, N. J. 



H. L. Mather, Jr. Numerous small collections of fishes, Pennsylvania and 

 New Jersey. 



Dr. D. G. Methexy. Keg of fishes, Yarmouth, Nova Scotia. 



Richard F. Miller. Small collection of fishes, Philadelphia. 



W. B. MoRRELL. Black Bass {Micropterus dolomieu), Darby Creek, Pa. 



Robert Morris and H. W. Fowler. Collection of fishes. Walnut Hill, Pa. 



Dr. R. J. Phillips. Several collections of marine fishes, Corson's Inlet, N. J. 



Purchased. Collection of fishes, Portuguese West Africa; two Garpikes 

 (Lepisosteus osseus), Florida. 



L. S. Snyder and H. L. Mather, Jr. Small collection of fishes, Schuylkill 

 River, Pa. 



F. L. Tappan. Labidesthes sicculus, Minnesota. 



Joseph Tytus. Skin of Salvelinus oquassa marstoni, Lake Cassette, Quebec. 



R. W. Wehrle. Numerous lots of fishes, totalUng several thousand specimens, 

 Indiana County, Pa. 



Vertebrate Fossils. 



Mrs. L. a. Poole, Tooth of Isurus haslalis, Miocene of Choptank, Maryland. 



Invertebrate Fossils. 



Dr. a. p. Brown. Collection of Oligocene fossUs from Panama. 



F. S. Manderson. Miocene corals from Yorktown, Va. 



Dr. V. Oberholtzer. Collection of Palaeozoic fossils from Oeland, Sweden. 



Minerals and Rocks. 



FooTE Mineral Co. Large specimen of Diabase Dike in granite Rock. 

 St., Cloud, Minn. 



Mrs. M. J. Galloway. Collection of minerals. 



J. Q. A. Haughto?;. Specimen of plumbago and serpentine, New Hampshire. 



T. W. HuiDEKOPER. Small collection of minerals. 



Mrs. Charles Schaffer. Small collection of minerals. 



Joseph Willcox. Corundum, North Carolina. 



Purchased for the William S. Vaux Collection. Twenty-four specimens. 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 611 



Insects. 



Academy Expedition, 1911 (Rehn and Hebard). Two thousand seven 

 hundred and fifty Orthoptera, Southeastern States. 



American Museum of Natural History. Three Orthoptera, United States. 



N. Banks. Fifty-one Myrmeleonidse, thirteen Diptera, ten Hemiptera, 

 twenty-four Psychodidse, United States. 



F. E. Bond Expedition. Ten hundred and three insects from Venezuela. 

 H. E. Brandt. One Coleopter, Arizona. 



M. A. Carriker. Twenty-nine Coleoptera, Venezuela. 



D. M. Castle. Fifty-six Coleoptera, Florida, Georgia; five Mutilla, Florida. 

 W. J. Coxey. One Lepidopter, Wyoming; four Lepidoptera, Africa ; one 



Lep-Het., Australia. 



E. T. Cresson, Jr. Two hundred and thirteen Diptera, United States. 



E. Daecke. Fifteen Micro-lepidoptera, Pennsylvania, New York, New 

 Jersey. 



W. J. Gerhard. Five Orthoptera, Illinois. 



G. M. Greene. Three hundred and twenty-eight Coleoptera, United States. 



E. D. Harris. Sixteen Coleoptera, North Carolina. 

 J. H. Harshberger. Four Orthoptera, Florida. 



G. C. Hewitt. Three Lepidoptera, Canada. 



G. HoRVATH. Eighty-seven Chrysididse, Europe. Exchange. 



F. M. Jones. Nine Lepidoptera, United States. 



P. JoRGENSEN. One thousand Orthoptera, Argentina. 



R. N. Keely. One Orthopter, United States. 



E. M. Ledyard. One Orthopter, Philippines. 



Purchased. Two thousand insects from Ceylon. 



C. T. Ramsden. One Lepidopter, Cuba. 



S. N. Rhoads. One Orthopter, United States. 



L. E. RiCKSECKER. One Lepidopter, California. 



H. Skinner. Forty-five Lepidoptera, Utah; fourteen Coleoptera, Pennsyl- 

 vania; two Anopheles, Pennsylvania. 



A. T. Slosson. Three Lepidoptera, Florida. 



Helen Louise Smith. One Coleopter. 



J. B. Smith. Six Orthoptera, United States. 



Rosella Stuart. One Lepidopter, Pennsylvania. 



T. Spalding. Ten Lycsena, Utah. 



Henry Tucker. One Lepidopter, Nova Scotia. 



University of Kansas. Four Orthoptera, United States. 



U. S. National Museum. One Orthopter, United States ; one hundred 

 and sixteen Hymenoptera, United States. Exchange. 



E. G. Vanatta. Twenty insects. United States. 



E. C. Van Dyke. Four Lepidoptera, California. 



R. W. Wehrle. Seven insects, Pennsylvania. 



L. H. Weld. One Hymenopter, United States. 



H. W. Wenzel. Five hundred and eighty-three insects, Texas. 



W. M. Wheeler. Two Orthoptera, Unite<l States. 



C. S. Williamson. Two Lepidoptera, Labrador; Nova Scotia. 



W. C. Wood. Eight Lepidoptera, North and South America; two Lepi» 

 doptera, New Mexico. 




612 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF. [DeC, 



Recent Mollusca. 



T, H. Aldrich. Cotype of Somatogyrus walkerianus Aid. from Conecut 

 River, Escambia Comity, Alabama. 



John A. Allen. One himdred and eighteen trays of shells from Tahiti, 

 Ohio and Maine. 



Dr. Fred Baker. Strophocheilus from Brazil; two species of marine shells 

 from California. 



Frank C. Baker. Ten trays of Lymncea. 



Francis N. Balch, DrymcBus flavotindus from Maracas Valley, Trinidad. 



D. D. Baldwin. Eight species of Amastra from Hawaiian Islands. 

 Nathan Banks. Two species of land shells from Cayuga Lake, N. Y. 

 Paul Bartsch. Planorbis eucosmius Bartsch from Wilmington, N. C. 

 H. Basedow. Acanthopleura spinosa Brug. 



Miss S. Benners. Two species of marine shells from Java. 



S. S. Berry. Forty-three trays of shells from California. 



F. E. Bond Veneztjelan Expedition. Forty-nine trays of land and fresh- 

 water shells. 



Dr. J. Chester Bradley. Twenty-one species of land and fresh-water shells 

 from British Columbia and Georgia. 



Dr. a. p. Brown. Two hundred trays of shells from Jamaica and Panama. 



F. W. Bryant. Two species of fresh-water shells from Warner, Cal. 



H. C. BuRNUP. Pupisoma orcula Bens, and Fossarus capensis Pils. from 

 Natal, South Africa. 



George W. Caffrey. Twenty-five species of shells from Bethlehem, Pa. 



Dr. p. p. Calvert. Fifty-five trays of land and fresh-water shells from 

 Costa Rica. 



E. R. Casey. Five trays of land shells from near Philadelphia, Pa. 

 George H. Clapp. Ten species of American shells. 



W. F. Clapp. Twelve species of land shells from Duxbury, Mass. 



T. D. A. Cockerell. Vertigo basidens P. and V., Rio Blanco, Colo. 



C. H. Conner. Six species of fresh-water shells from Pennsylvania. 



C. M. Cooke, Jr. Thirteen species of Hawaiian sheUs. 



L. E. Daniels. Thirty trays of shells from Indiana, etc. 



J. H. Ferriss. Twenty-five trays of shells from Arizona and Illinois. 



L. S. Frierson. Unio tenuisculus Frierson, Rudy Lake, Fla. 



H. W. Fowler. Sixty-seven trays of shells from Pennsylvania and Maryland. 



C. W. Gripp. Two species of shells from San Diego, Cal. 



S. H. Hamilton. Fifteen species of shells from Cuba. 



G. D. Hanna. Vitrea from Virginia. 



H. Hannibal. Five trays of shells from California. 

 Prof. J. W. Harshberger. Thirteen trays of shells from Florida. 

 Arthur Haycock. Fifteen species of shells from Bermuda. 

 Academy and Hebard Expedition. Physa, Epiphragmophora, etc., CaU- 

 fornia and Arizona. 



Junius Henderson. Ten trays of shells from Colorado and Nebraska. 



J. B. Henderson, Jr. Six species of shells from Cuba. 



Edward Hopkinson. Eggs of Nassa? from Edson, S. C. 



W. T. Innes. Three spesies of marine shells from San Diego, Cal. 



T. D. Keim. Littorina palliata Say from near Darien, Conn. 




1911,] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 61^ 



Bayard Long. Seven trays of shells from Canada. 



Benjamin Smith Lyman. Two species of bivalves from Japan. 



J. G. Malone. Five species of marine shells from Lower California. 



W. J.I^Mazyck. Ancylus peninsuloe P. and J. from Otranto Creek, S. C. 



Dr. D. G. Metheny. Loligo pealii Les. from Cranberry Head, Nova Scotia. 



Clarence B. Moore. One hundred and fifty-one trays of shells from Florida 

 and Arkansas; also one hundred trays of shells from Florida collected by H. A. 

 Pilsbry. 



Dr. J. P. Moore. Thirty-two marine shells from the Pacific Ocean. 



Dr. a. E. Ortmann. Seven species of fresh-water shells from Pennsylvania 

 and New Jersey. 



H. A. Pilsbry. Eighteen trays of shells from Arizona and New Jersey. 



E. Pomeroy. Two species of land shells from Texas. 



Princeton Expedition to Greenland. Ninety-three trays of marine shells. 



Purchased. Two hundred and sixty-two trays of shells. 



C. T. Ramsden. Two species of Cuban shells. 



J. A. G. Rehn. Nassa obsoleta Say from Cumberland Island, Ga. 



E. E. Reinke. Liltorina nebulosa Lam. from Kingston, Jamaica. 



S. Raymond Roberts. Columbella avara Say from Vineyard Haven, Mass. 



Rev. J. RowELL. Six species shells from Egypt and California. 



Mrs. M. p. Saunders. Two marine shells. 



Silas L. Schumo. Twelve species of marine shells from Florida. 



Alvin Seale. One hundred and three species of marine shells from PhiUp- 

 pine Islands. 



Dr. V. Sterki. Two species of shells from Kentucky and Michigan. 



WiTMER Stone. Thirteen species of shells from Jennings, Md. 



University of Wisconsin. Seven species of Amastra from Hawaiian Islands. 



E. G. Vanatta. Fifteen species of shells from Pennsylvania and Maryland. 



Bryant Walker. Fourteen specimens of shells from North America and 

 West Africa. 



H. E. Wheeler. Arkansia wheeleri W. and O., Old River, Arkansas. 



R. W. Wehrle. Eleven species of shells from Indiana County, Pa. 



W. W. Welch. Two species of Polygyra from Torresdale, Pa. 



H. A. Wenzel. Three species of land shells from Macdona, Texas. 



Joseph Willcox. Three marine shells from Florida. 



Charles S. Williamson. Five species of shells from Newfoundland. 



Other Invertebrates. 



Academy Expedition, 1911 (Rehn). Gelasimus from Cumberland Island, Ga. 



John A. Allen. Lepas anatifera L. from Tahiti. 



Herman Behr. Cambarus from Jennings, Md. 



Miss Sarah Benners. Fragment of a brain-coral. 



Victor Blucker. A collection of Crustacea and myriapods from Pennsylvania • 



British Museum. Balanus nubilus Darw. from Vancouver Island. 



Dr. a. p. Brown. Three trays of invertebrates. 



H. W. Fowler. Two jars of Crustacea from Pennsylvania and Virginia. 



Edward Fox. One tray of hermit crabs from Sea Isle City, N. J. 



Prof. J. W. Harshberger. One tray of hermit crabs from Miami, Fla. 



Arthur Haycock. Argyrotheca bermudana Dall. from Bermuda. 




614 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC. 



J. B. Henderson, Jr. Seven species of barnacles from Key West, Fla. 



Edward Hopkinson. Three species of invertebrates from Edisto Island, 

 S. C. 



H. L. Mather, Jr. A collection of myriapods and Crustacea from Penn- 

 sylvania. 



W. M. Meigs. A collection of prawns from Florida. 



Clarence B. Moore. Tliree crabs from Florida collected by H. A. Pilsbry. 



Dp. Percy J. Moore. One hundred and fifty-one bottles of polychaeta, 

 dredged off California; also a collection of cretaceous fossils from Martha's 

 Vineyard, Mass. 



Dr. R. J. Phillips. A Balanus from Corson's Inlet, N. J. 



H. A. Pilsbry. Five trays of invertebrates from New Jersey and Florida. 



Dr. R. W. Shufeldt. One Tarantula. 



Silas L. Schumo. One species of sponge from St. Petersburg, Fla. 



Alvin Seale. Fifteen species of invertebrates from Philippine Islands. 



Albert Thompson. A collection of Crustacea and myriapods from Penn- 

 sylvania and Virginia. 



U. S. Fish Commission. Seventy-four species of invertebrates from Hawaiian 

 Islands and California. 



E. G. Vanatta. Four species of invertebrates from Bermuda and Maryland. 



W. Webb. Melitodes esperi W. and S. and Melilodes flahellifera K. from Japan. 



R. W. Wehrle. a collection of Crustacea and myriapods from Indiana 

 County, Pa. 



Joseph Willcox. Nummuhtes from Pemberton Falls, Florida. 



Plants. 



Dr. Astley p. C. Ashhurst and Dr. William Ashhurst. Herbarium of 

 the late Dr. Robert E. Griffiths. 



Charles C. Bachman. Eighty-two specimens. 



Edwin B. Bartram. One hundred and eighty-seven specimens. 



Francis E. Bond Expedition. Eight hundred and fifty Venezuelan 

 specimens. 



O. H. Brown. Two hundred and twenty-seven specimens. 



Dr. John W. Eckfeldt. Eleven specimens. 



William Findlay. Forty-seven specimens. 



Gray Herbarium. One hundred and two Newfoundland specimens. Ex- 

 change. 



Dr. Thomas S. Githens. Seven hundred and fifty specimens. 



Dr. John W. Harshberger. Eight specimens. 



William E. Haydock. Pericome caudata. 



Morgan Hebard and J. A. G. Rehn. Dionoea musiyula. 



Zephaniah Hopper. Five specimens. 



Miss Keeney. One specimen. 



Dr. Ida A. Keller. One specimen. 



Dr. A. F. K. Krout. One hundred and twenty-five sp'^cimens. 



Charles H. La Wall. Two specimens. 



Bayard Long. Twelve hundred specimens. 



New York Botanical Garden. One hundred and twelve specimens in 

 -exchange. 




1911.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 615 



Francis W. Pennell. One thousand one hundred and seventy-six specimens. 



Harold W. Pretz. One specimen. 



Evan Randolph, Jr. Monarda fistulosa, Dipsacus syluestris. 



B. H. Smith. Thirty-eight specimens from Yellowstone National Park. 



WiTMER Stone. Three specimens. 



United States National Herbarium. Sixty Violets. Exchange. 



Charles S. Williamson. One hundred and sixteen specimens. 



Botanical Section — Purchased. One hundred and eighty-one sheets of 

 violets from Prof. Ezra Brainerd; three hundred and ninety-five sheets of Nevada 

 and California specimens from Dr. A. A. Heller. 




616 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



INDEX TO GENERA, SPECIES, ETC., DESCRIBED AND 

 REFERRED TO IN THE PROCEEDINGS FOR 1911. 



Species described as new are indicated by heavy-faced, synonyms by 

 italic numerals. 



Abies menziesii 48, 92 



Abramis 4 



crysoleucas 8 



Abronia fragrans 49, 92 



Acacesia foliata 450 



Acantharchus pomotis 4 



Acara rivulata 519 



Acer 74,82,85 



glabrum 27,48 



Achatinidse 574,579 



Achilleia millefolium 39, 49, 97 



Achirus fasciatus 15 



Acila 338 



Acipenser brevirostrum 6 



sturio 3, 6 



Aconitum fischeri 49, 81 



Acrosoma gracilis 451 



spinea 451 



Actsea spicata 49, 94 



Acteonidae 339 



Adamsiella grayana 580 



irrorata 576 



^nigmichnus 544, 547 



multiformis 546 



iEquidens azurifer 515 



rivulatus 519 



^thoprora metopoclampa 570 



Agalena 396 



nsevia 377, 392, 443 



Agalenidse 443 



Agaricus sp 49, 92 



Agriolimax hemphilli ashmuni 192 



Agroeca 442 



Agropyrum repens 49, 86, 90, 97 



Albula vulpes 204 



Albulid* 204 



Alcadia palliata 576 



Alepas.... 170,171 



pacifica 171 



Alitta 244 



Allium 26 



acuminatum 49, 83 



bisceptrum 30, 49, 83 



AUocosa funerea 454 



sublata 454 



Alnus incana 49, 97 



Alopecurus aristulatus 49, 93 



Alopias vulpes 16 



Alosa S 



fallax 206 



sapidissima 6, 206 



Alutera schoepfi 16 



Amarantus sp 49, 81 



Amaura guppj'i 337, 360^ 



Amaurobius bennetti 444 



Amblystoma macrodactylum 223* 



Ambrosia 63 



psilostachya 49, 96 



Ameiurus catus 3,9 



mispilliensis 9 



natalis prosthistius 4,9" 



nebulosus 4, 9 



Amelanchier alnifolia 34, 35, 49, 94 



Amiatus calvus 204 



Ammodytes americanus 15 



Ammoxenus 397 



Amphinomidse 239 



Amsinckia tesselata 50 



Anableps microlepis 436 



Anabrus simplex 28- 



Anachis avara 351, 352 



a. calvosaensis 352 



camax 352 



fugax 351,352 



styliola 352 



Anaphalis margaritaeea 50, 84 



Anchovia 211 



argentivittata 218 



astilbe 218 



brevirostris 216 



brownii 216 



cayorum 219 



choerostoma 218 



c. cayorum 219, 219 



elupeoides 211 



commersonnii , 218 



compressa 219' 



cubana 218 



delicatissima 219 



duodecim 219 




1911.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



617 



Anchovia encrasicholoides 219 



eurystole 219 



exigua 213 



januarius 216 



lepidentostole 214 



macrolepidota 211 



miarcha 213 



mitchilli 6, 203, 219 



nasus 219 



perfasciata 211 



perthecata 214 



platyargyrea 216 



purpurea 214 



scituJa 211,213 



starksi 213 



tapirula 219 



Anchoviella 211 



Androsace septentrionalis 50 



Anemone multifida 50, 94 



Angelica 62, 68 



pinnata 50 



Anguilla chrisypa 7, 203 



Annularia fimbriatula 126 



Antennaria dioica 50 



Apeltes quadracus 3 



Aperostoma (Ptychocochlis) cor- 



rugatum 575 



dubiosum 576 



(Ptychocochlis) varians 579 



Aphredoderus 4, 13 



sayanus 12 



Aphyllon fasciculatum 50, 90 



Aplopappus macronema 50, 93, 94 



suffruticosus 50, 94 j 



Apocynum androsaemifolium 50, 98 



Apodasty anax 422 



stewardsoni 422 



Apostenus 442 



Aquilegia 27 



coerulea 51, 88, 93 



Aquillida; 356 



Arabella attenuata 297 



spinifera 298 



Arabis holboeUi 51 



retrofracta 51, 89 



Aracoda cerulea 297 



semimaculata 295 



Area dariensis 362 



Architectonica abbotti 534,554 



Archosargus probatocephalus 14 



Arcidae 362 



Arctium lappa 51, 85 



Arenaria biflora 51 



congesta 51 



triflora var. obtusa 39, 51, 95, 98 



Argemone mexicana var. hispida, 51, 



88,95 



Argentina sphyrsena 555 



Argentinidse 555 



Argiope aurantia 451 



trifasciata 451 



Argyrodes cancellatus 446 



trigonum 446 



Argyropelecus hemigymnus 571 



Ariadna 395-397 



bicolor 405,441 



Ariamnes fictilium 446 



Aricia nuda 311 



Aristida 77 



purpurea 51, 86, 95, 99 



Arnica cordifolia 51, 92 



parryi 51,84 



Artemisia biennis 51, 90 



discolor 52 



dracunculoides 52, 87 



tridentata 26, 36, 40, 52, 90 



Asagena americana 445 



phalerata 412 



Asclepias 35 



Asclepiodora decumbens 52, 90 



Ashmunella 177 



Astarte elliptica 536 



Aster adscendens 52, 88 



Astragalus 26,64 



iodanthus 52, 81, 85 



junceus 52 



utahensis 52, 92, 95 



Astronotus ocellatus 437 



Astyanax festse 509 



longior 421 



mexicanus 512 



notemigonoides 506 



pectinatus 421 



scierus 509 



simus 512, 513 



Atriplex 26,31 



canescens 52, 81 



confertifolia 31,52,82,92 



truncata 31, 53, 80 



Attidse 454 



Atypus 394 



Auchenipterinse 433 



Aulopidae 563 



filamentosus 563 



Avena sativa 53, 86 



Bacillinae 328 



Bairdiella chrysura 16 



Balbiania rileyi 461 



Balistes carolinensis 15 



Balsamorhiza hookeri .32, 53, 79, 84, 86, 



98 



sagittata ...26, 29, 32, 38, 53, 79, 83 



Bascanion constrictor venustum... 231 



flagellum 231 



Bathyphantes galbea 448 



micaria 448 



nigrina 448 



unimaculata 448 



zebra 448 



Batrachoides surinamensis 437 



Batrachoidida; 437 



Beckmannia 68, 69 



cruciformis 53, 97 




618 



PROCEEDIXGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



Benthosema miilleri 570 



Berberis repens 53, 92 



Berula angustifolia 53, 81 



Betula occidentalis 27, 53, 97 



Bifidaria ashmuni 197 



contracta 525, 527, 528 



c. climeana 525, 527-532 



corticaria 526 



pellucida hordeacella 197 



pentodon. 527, 531, 532 



p. tappaniana 529, 530 



pilsbryana 197 



quadridentata 197 



Bigelovia 26, 77 



douglasii 35, 53, 91 



pulchella 53, 92 



Bisulcus 545 



Bittium nugatorium 357 



Blepharopsis 328 



mendica 328 



Boleichthys 4 



fiisiformis 13 



Boleosoma 4 



nigrum olmstedi 13 



Brachypodella alba striata 575 



chemnitziana 579 



robertsi 574 



seminuda 579 



Brevoortia tyrannus 6, 203, 207 



t. aurea 207 



t. dorsalis 207 



t. patronus 207 



Brizopyrum spicatum 54, 83 



Bromeliacea 577 



Bromus breviaristatus 54, 94 



Brycon atricaudatus 505 



moorei 505 



scapularis 502, 506 



Bryum 39 



sp 54,92 



Buccinidae 348 



Bufo alvarius 223 



boreas 223 



cognatus 223 



lentiginosus americanus 223 



1. woodhousei 223 



punctatus 223 



Bulimulidae 579 



Bulla (Volvula) oxytata 339 



BuUina chipolana 339 



(Abderospira) chipolana 339 



Caddo agilis 456 



Cadulus 338 



annulatus 168 



dentalinus 168 



depressicoUis 168 



exiguus 169 



simrothi 168,169 



sp 168 



Calculus 395,397 



Calidomantis 323 



affinis 323 



Calidomantis kilimand j arica 323 



pharaonica 323 



Callichthyida; 436 



Callilepis femoralis 441 



imbecilla 441 



Callinectes sapidus 3 



Callisaurus ventralis 225 



Callocardia 371 



(Agriopoma) gatunensis 370 



gatunensis multifilosa 370 



Calochortus nuttalli 26, 30, 54, 91 



Calyptrajidae 360 



Camassia 30 



esculenta 54 



Cambridgea antipodiana 412 



Cancellaria barretti 346 



dariena 345 



d. trachyostraca 345 



decaptyx 346 



reticulata 345 



Cancellariidae 345 



Caponia 394,397 



Capulidae 360 



Capulus gatunensis 360 



Caranx hippos 16 



Carcharias littoralis 16 



megalodon 336 



Cardamine cordifoUa 54 



Cardiida; 366 



Cardium apicinum 367 



belcheri 367 



(Laevicardium) dalli 367 



(Trachycardium) dominica- 



num 367 



(Trachycardium) dominicense 367 



(Fragum) gatunense 367, 368 



(Trachycardium) gatunense . 367 



lingualeonis 367 



? newberryanum 368 



(Protocardia) newberryanum.. 368 



(Laevicardium) serratum 367 



sp 366 



(Trachycardium) stiriatum, 366, 



367 



Carex fistira 54 



hookeriana 54, 74, 79 



jamesii 54, 87 



muricata 54 



utriculata 54, 74, 79, 87 



Carum carui 54 



gairdneri 26, 31, 55, 98 



Carvilia 326 



agrionina 326 



Carychium exile 527, 528 



Cassidaria laevigata 356 



Castianeira pinnata 442 



Castilleia miniata 55, 82 



minor 94 



parviflora 27, 55, 94 



Catostomus commersonnii 4,9 



nigricans 4 




1911.1 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



619 



Ceanothus 75 



velutinus 27, 55, 79 



Ceciliodes (Csecilianopsis) iota 575 



Centrobranchus chsrocephalus 570 



Centropristis striatus 14, 203 



Cephaloptera giorna 5 



Cephalopterus vampyrus 5 



Cepolis (Hemitrochus) gramini- 



cola 578 



(Dialeuca) subconiea 578 



Ceratinella brunnea 446 



fissiceps 446 



laetabilis 446 



minuta 446 



Ceratinopis alternatus 446 



nigripalpis 446 



Ceratophyllum 12 



Ceratoscopelus maderensis 569 



Ceratozona 491 



Cercocarpus ledifolius 26, 36, 55, 96 



parvif olius 55, 96 



Cerithiida; 357 



Cerithium coUinsii 357 



Cetengraulis edentulus 220 



engymen 220 



Chainactis douglasii 83, 97 



Chaitodipterus faber 16 



Chalceus atrocaudatus 505 



Chalcinus 433 



albus 433 



angulatus 433 



auritus 433 



brachipomus 433 



elongatus 432 



magdalena; 433 



Charnsebatiaria millifolium 93 



Characida; 419, 495 



Chauliodontida; 560 



Chauliodus setinotus 563 



• sloani .560 



Cheilea 360 



equestris 361 



princetonia 360 



varia 361 



Cheirolepis latus 20 



rnuensteri 20 



Chenopodium 31, 63 



capitatum 55, 83, 87 



leptophyllum 55, 82 



rubrum 55, 83, 87 



Chilomycterus schoepfii 16 



Chione burnsi 369 



(Liriphora) mactropsis 369, 369 



sp 369 



tegulum 368 



(Lirophora) ulocyma 369 



ulocyraa holocyma 369 



woodward! 369 



Chiracanthum inclusum 442 



Chirocentridse 205 



Chirocentrus dorab 205 



Chiropacha capitata 320 



Chloeia pinnata 239 



Chorophilus triseriatus 224 



Chlorophthalmus agassizi 563 



Chrysemys 4 



Chrysopsis villosa 56, 95, 96 



Cichlida? 437,515 



Cicurina arcuata 443 



brevis 443 



Cinna arund inacea var . pendula 56 



Circinaria 479 



concava 526 



Cirrus crotaloides 534 



Citharichthys arctifrons 202, 203 



micros 200,203 



spilopterus 203 



unicornis 203 



Claytonia caroliniana 30 



c. var. sessilifolia 56,81 



perfoliata 56, 87 



Clematis 27 



douglasii 56, 80, 86 



ligusticufolia 56, 86 



Clementia... 338 



dariena 359,371 



Cleome integrifolia 56, 79, 81 



lutea 51,56,91 



Clitumnina; 330 



Clubiona abbotti 441 



canadensis 442 



crassipalpis 442 



pallens 442 



Clubionidae 441 



Clupanodon brunnichii 205 



chapra 207 



coeruleus 205 



neopilchardus 205 



phalerica 205 



pseudohispanicus 206 



Clupea amazonica 207 



harengus 205 



mirabilis £0.5 



pallasii :... 205 



papalina 20-5 



Clupeidae 205 



Cnemidophorus grahamii 230 



gularis 230 



sexlineatus 230 



tigris 230 



t. melanostethus 231 



Cnicus drummondi 56,93, 96 



eatoni 38, 56, 79, 90 



edulis 30 



undulatus 56,87,96 



Cobitis japonica 568 



Coccidia 457 



Cochjicopa 184 



lubrica 193 



Ccelotes calcarata 443 



Collettia rafinesquii 570 



Colobostylus browrii 576 



jayanus rufilabli.■^ 128 



Colomesus psittacus 437 




620 



PKOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



Columbella gradata 353 



Columbellidae 351 



Commandra pallida 56 



Conida; 341 



Coniferales 19 



Conus semulator 342 



alveatus 342 



concavitectum 341 



consobrinus 341 



cruzianus 343 



domingensis 341, 342 



gaza 342 



gracilissimus 3^1 



granozonatus 341 



haytensJs. 341, 343 



imitator 342 



molis 343 



promethus 343 



Coras medicinalis 443 



Corbula alabamiensis 337, 371 



dominicensis 371 



gatunensis 371 



gregorioi 337,372 



heterogenea 372 



sericea 371 



(Cuneocorbula) sericea 371 



sphenia 371 



(Cuneocorbula) sphenia 371 



viminea 372 



Corbulidae 371 



Coregonus albus 551 



clupeaformis 551 



fera 551 



quadrilateraUs 551 



wartmanni 551 



Coriarachne versicolor 452 



Cornicularia indirecta 447 



Cornus stolonifera 27, 35, 57, 80 



Cottus gracilis 4 



Cowania 71 



mexicana 26, 57, 81 



Crataegus oxycanthus 57, 86 



rivularis 27, 57 



Creobotrinae 326 



Crepidula plana 360 



Crepis glauca 57, 85 



occidentalis 57, 84 



Cristo vomer namaycush 554 



Crotalus lepidus 232 



molossus 232 



oregonus 232 



pricei 232 



Crotophy tus collaris baileyi 224 



wislizeni 224 



Crustulina guttata 445 



Cybaeus giganteus 443 



Cycadacea 17 



Cycadales .'.. 17 



Cyclinella gatunensis 371 



Cyclophoridae 575,579 



Cyclosa conica 450 



Cyclostomatidse 576, 579 



Cymia 338 



Cymopterus longipes 30, 57, 79 



montanus 30, 57, 96 



Cynoscion nebulosus 14 



regalis 14,203 



Cypraea henikeni 356 



hemkeri 356 



mus 356 



Cypraeidae 356 



Cyprinodon variegatus 10 



Cyprinus carpio 8 



Cystopteris fragilis 57, 88 



Cythara heptagona 345 



(Meretrix) dariena 370 



Cytherea juncea 370 



Dasyatis centroura 16 



say 16 



Dendrochiton 487 



Dendrj^hantes castaneus 455 



octavus 455 



Dentalium (Fustiaria) circinatum. . 167 



costaricense 165, 165 



dentale 165 



dentalis 166 



(Tesseracme) dissjmile 166, 168 



(Episiphon) macilentum 166 



(Episiphon) schumoi 167 



(Rhabdus) sp 168 



Deschampsia caespitosa 57, 95 



danthonioides 58, 84, 99 



Deyeuxia canadensis 58, 80, 85 



stricta 80,85 



Delphinium bicolor 27, 57, 87, 96 



menziesi 27, 96 



Diadophis regalis 231 



Dictyna 395 



armata 444 



foliacea 443 



sublata 443 



Dictynidse 443 



Diodon hystrix 16 



Diopatra 254 



cuprea 277 



ornata 273 



Diplocephalus carolinus 44 7 



rostratus 447 



Dipoena nigra 445 



Dipsosaurus dorsalis 224 



Distorsio gatunensis 356 



Dixonina nemoptera 204 



Dodecathion meadia 58, 87 



Dolomedes fontanus 452 



sexpunctatus 452 



tenebrosus 411 



urinator 452 



vernalis 452 



Dorocidarus 173 



Dorosoma cepedianum 3, 211 



c. exile 211 



petenensis 211 



Dorosomatidae 211 



Dosinia 371 




1911.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



621 



Dracocephalum 66 



parviflorum 32, 58, 94 



Drassidae 441 



Drassus robustus 441 



Drillia censors 345 



fusiformis 345 



fusinus 344 



gatunensis 344 



indentata 344 



isthmica 344 



parkeri 344 



zooki 345 



Drilonereis falcata 298 



Dussumiera elopsoides 205 



Dussumieriidae 205 



Dysdera... 395-397 



interrita 405 



Dysderidae 441 



Echeneis naucrates 16 



Echinospermum floribundum 58 



redowskii 58 



Ecphora parvicostata 438, 439 



quadricostata 438, 439 



q. umbilicata 438 



tricostata 438 



Etea 319 



marchali 319 



Elaphe chlorosoma 231 



Elaps euryxanthus 232 



Electrona risso 570 



Eleocharis palustris 58, 97 



Elopidse 204 



Elops hawaiensis 204 



saurus 204 



Elymus canadensis 58, 86, 94 



sibiricus 58, 86 



Emerita talpoida 3 



Endodontidse 191 



Engraulididse 211 



Engraulis duodecim 219 



encrasicolus 219 



mordax 219 



perfasciatus 211 



productus... 211 



ringens 219 



tapirulus 219 



vittatus 219 



Enneacanthus 4, 13 



gloriosus 12 



Enoplognatha marmorata 445 



Entella 321 



lamperti 321 



usambarica 321 



Epeira 396 



Catawba 450 



diademata 398,399 



displicata 449 



domiciliorum 449 



foliata 449 



gigas 449 



globosa 449 



hortorum 411 



41 



Epeira infumata 449 



juniperi 449 



marmorea 398 



nordmanni 449 



ocellata 449 



prompta 450 



sanguinalis 449 



sericata 449 



strix 449 



trifolium 449 



trivittata 449 



vulgaris 449 



Epeiridse 449 



Epesinus amcenus 445 



Epilobium alpinum 58, 97 



coloratum 58, 97 



spicatum 58,87 



Epinephelus morio 16 



Epipactis gigantea 58, 97 



Episcopus 325 



chalybseus 325 



Episiphon 167 



Epistylia conica 581, 582 



Equisetum hyemalis 58, 82 



Eremiaphila marchali 319 



Ericiidae 576,579 



Erigeron canadensis 58 



glabellas 59, 93, 94 



grandiflorus 59, 92 



leiomerus 59, 90 



macranthus 59, 82, 83, 89 



Erigone 397 



autumnalis 447 



Erimyzon 4, 13 



sucetta oblongus 9 



Eriogonum 30,68 



brevicaule 59, 90 



caespitosum 59 



cernuum 59, 86 



heracleoides 59, 81, 86 



inflatum 59, 86, 89 



microthecum 59, 80, 91 



ovalifolium 40, 59, 91 



umbellatum 59, 91 



vilb'florum 59, 94 



Erodium cicutarium 60, 99 



Erythrininae 433 



Erythronium grandiflorum 27, 60, 95 



Esox 4 



americanus 9 



boa 559 



reticulatus 10 



Etrumeus micropus 205 



Eucinostomus gula 203 



Euciroa dalli 523 



pacifica 524 



Euconulus chersinus..... 531 



c. dentatus 531 



c. trochulus 526, 528 



fulvus alaskensis 192 



Euglandina rosea buUata 530 



Eugnatha straminea 449 




622 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec. 



Eulamia milberti 5, 203 



obscura 16 



Eumeces obsoletus 231 



Eunice antennata 251 



bilobata 251 



congesta 252 



flavofasciata 251 



hawaiensis 252 



microprion 251 



(Eriphyle) paloloides 248 



multipectinata 248, 251 



Eunicid£e ._. 248 



Eupagurus 280 



Euphorbia dentata 84 



montana 60, 84 



Euphrosyne bicirrata 234 



dumosa 235, 238 



heterobranchia 235 



hortensis 234 



Hmbata 237 



maculata 239 



Euphrosynidae 234 



Eupomotis 4 



gibbosus 13 



Eurotia lanata... 26, 41, 60, 90 



Euryopis funebris 445 



Eutrochatella pulchella 576, 580 



Evagrus 394-396 



Exoglossum maxillingua 4 



Fasciolaria sp 348 



ramondi 348 



Fasciolariidse 348 



Felichthys marinus 16 



Ferula multifida 26, 30, 38, 60, 94 



Ferussacidse 193, 575 



Festuca 61 



ovina var. brevifolia 60, 95 



tenella 60,99 



Fragaria vesca 34, 60, 80 



Franseria hookeriana 60 



Fritillaria pudica 27, 30, 61, 98 



Fuentes lineata 455 



Fucus 536,547 



vesciculosus 537, 546 



Fundulus diaphanus 4, 10 



h'eteroclitus macrolepidotus, 3, 10, 



203 



majalis 10, 203 



Fusinus 344,345 



Fusus 344 



Gadus callarias 15 



Galeocerdo tigrinus 16 



Galepsus 320 



capitatus 320 



meridionalis montanus 320 



Galium aparine 61,, 90 



Gambusia 4 



affinis 10 



gracilis 10 



Gasteropelecinse 432 



Gasterosteus aculeatus 11 



Gayenna pectorosa 442 



saltabunda 442 



Gea heptagon 451 



Geolycosa missouriensis 454 



Geomelania 585 



affinis 688 



beardsleyana 586 



conica 588 



costulosa 686 



elegans... 586 



exilis 586 



expansa 588 



fortis 687 



gracilis 575, 586, 588 



g. var. parva 587 



grayana 687 



hilliana 588 



inornata 688 



jamaicensis 587 



magna 687 



media 687 



microglypta 587 



minor : 686 



parva 687 



parvula 587 



pauperata 688 



procera 586 



pygmsea 575,687 



pyramidatus 688 



(Chittya) sinuosa 675 



striosa 687 



typica 686 



t. var. pygmsea 687 



vicina 575,588 



Geotrecha 413 



Geranium fremonti 61, 82 



Gerrhonotus burnettii 230 



kingii 230 



principis 230 



Geum macrophyllum 62, 86 



rosii 61 



Gilia aggregata 61, 78, 85 



gracilis 61 



linearis 61 



Glaux maritima 61, 89 



Glycera alba 801 



a. macrobranchia 301 



branchiopoda 302 



capitata 299,300 



chilensis 304,305 



distans 91,99 



longissima 304 



nana 300,301 



robusta 300 



rugosa 300, 304, 305 



tesselata 300 



Glyceria 60, 61 



ajroides 61 



aquatica 61,83 



nervata 61, 91, 92 



Glycinde armigera 307 




1911.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



623 



Glycosoma 68 



occidentalis 62, 89 



Glycymeris acuticostata 364 



canalis 364 



carbasina 363 



jamaicensis .' 363 



lineata 363 



pectinata 364 



Glyptostyla 337 



crassitesta 348 



panamensis 337, 348 



Gnaphalium sprengelii 62, 85 



Gonglydium atramontensis 447 



Goniada annulata 305 



brunnea 306 



Goniadidse 305 



Gonorhynchidae 220 



Gonorhynchus gonorhynchus 220 



Grammichnus 544 



Grammonota 396, 398 



ornata 447 



Grateloupia mactropsis 369 



Gratidia 330 



fissa 330 



montana 330 



nebxilosipes 330 



tenuis 330 



Grayia polygaloides 26, 62, 82, 84 



Grindelia squarrosa 62, 85 



Gryllus (M antis) tricolor 326 



Gudusia.. 207 



Gutierezia 26 



euthamise 62, 83 



Gymnolomia multiflora 32, 62, 84 



Habrocestum parvulus 455 



pulex 455 



Hsemosporidia 457 



Hahnia agilis 443 



Halostachys occidentalis 26 



Harpadon nehereus 569 



Harpagomantis 326 



tricolor 326 



Hedysarum mackenzii 62, 88 



Helenium autumnale 62, 84, 93, 94 



hoopesii 62, 94, 95 



Helianthella uniflora 62, 85, 89 



Helianthus 32 



annuus 62, 82 



Helicidai... 178, 573, 578 



Helicina lirata 585 



neritella angulata 576 



unidentata 585 



Helicinida; 576,580 



Helicodiscus parallelus 526, 528 



Helix ( Arionta) coloradoensis 178 



epistylioides 581 



epistylium 581 



fuliginosa 4^1 



jayana 681 



laevigata 478, 479, 480 



pomatia 161 



Heracleum lanatum 63, 83 



Heringia 207 



amazonica 208 



Hermacha 394,396 



Herpyllus ecclesiasticus 411 



Heteralepas 171 



Heuchera 27, 39, 67 



rubescens 63, 89, 95, 98 



Hieracium gracilis 63,85 



Hiodon alveoides 204 



tergisus 204 



Hiodontidffi 204 



Hippocampus hudsonius 12 



Hippoglossus hippoglossus 16 



Holbrookia maculata approximans 225 



m. flavilenta 225 



m. maculata 225 



texana 226 



Holodiscus discolor var. dumosa, 63, 



83, 93 



Hoplias malabaricus 433 



Hoplocorypha 322 



galeata 322 



macra 322 



Hoplosternum littorale 436 



thoracatum 436 



Hordeum jubatum 63, 82, 84 



nodosum 63, 82, 84 



Hucho blakistoni 554 



hucho 554 



Humbertiella 327 



Humulus lupulus 63, 97 



Hyalinoecia 254, 260, 261 , 273 



artifex 280 



juvenalis 277 



tubicola 259, 277, 280, 280 



t. longibranchiata 280 



t. stricta 280 



Hybognathus 4 



nuchalis regius 7 



Hyctia pikei 455 



Hydrophyllum occidentale 63, 94 



Hyla arenicolor 224 



Hypnum sp 63, 88 



Hypochilidae 440 



Hypochilus 394,440 



thorelli 440 



Hypselistes florens 447 



Hyptiotes 395 



clavatus 451 



Iclithyococcus ovatus 570 



Icius canadensis 455 



Idolomorpha 327 



dentifrons 327 



Idolum 328 



diabolicum 328 



Ilisha 210 



brachysoma 210 



hoeveni 210 



narragansetse 208 



Ischnochiton 487 



Ischnochitonid* 487 




624 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



Ischnopoda 335 



reyi.. 



335 



Iva axilaris 49, 63, 96 



xanthifolia 63 



Ivesia eordoni 63, 96 



Jalla... , 327 



radiosa 327 



Jamesia americana 63, 94 



Janira soror 365 



Jenkinsia stolifera 205 



Juncus balticus 81, 88 



bufonius 88 



Juniperus 26, 40 



calif ornica var. utahensis, 63, 97, 98 



communis var. alpina 64, 80 



virginianus 64, 89 



Kalmia glauca 64, 93 



Karyolysus 466 



Kinosternon 4 



Kirtlandia laciniata H 



vagans 11 



Ivrynitzkia fulvocanescens 64, 83 



Lactuca leucophsea 85 



ludoviciana 64, 85 



Lagocephalus laeyigatus 16 



Lagodon rhomboides 16 



Laminaria longicrucis 537 



Lampanyctus crocodilus 569 



gemellarii 569 



Lampropeltis pyrrhomelsena 231 



Lankesterella 466 



Lathrodectes mactans 445 



Lathyrus ornatus 64 



Layia glandulosa 65, 84 



Leda.. 536,541 



agapea 362 



balboae 362 



coelata 362 



Ledidse 362 



Leiostomus xanthurus 16, 203 



Lemna 65,88,97 



Lepas 171 



Lepidium intermedium 65, 98 



Lepidosteus crassus 6 



Lepisosteus 3 



osseus 6 



Lepomis 4 



auritus 12 



Lepthyphantes minuta 448 



Leptinaria pallida 574 



striosa 574 



Leptocephalus conger 7 



Leptynia 332 



aspericoUis 332 



mozambicus 332 



pluto 332 



prospera 332 



rufolineatus 332 



senex 332 



trilineatus 332 



Leucauge hortorum 451 



Leucichthys albula 552 



artedi 551 



eriensis 551 



nigripinnis 552 



prognathus 552 



Lewisia rediviva 65, 82 



Limacidse 192 



Linum kingii 65, 85 



perenne. 



65 



Linyphia 396,397 



communis 448 



grandseva 448 



maculata 448 



marginata 448 



phrygiana 447 



Linyphiella coccinea 448 



Linyphiidse 447 



Liobunum crassipalpis 456 



flavum 456 



grande 456 



ventricosum 456 



Liocranum 442 



Lithospermum 32 



hirtum 65,80 



longiflorum 40 



multiflorum 96 



pilosum 40, 65, 96 



LoUgo 100,103 



brevipinna 100 



brevis 100,102,103 



diomedese 101 



gahi 101 



pealii 102,103 



LoUiguncula 100,103 



brevis 101-103 



panamensis. 



100 



Lonicera ^3 



utahensis 65,89 



Lophanthus 76 



urticifolius 32, 66, 94 



Lophius piscatorius 16 



Lophocarenum moestum 447 



Loricariidse 436 



Lucidella 585 



adamsiana 585 



aureola 576, 585 



depressa 585 



foxi 584,585 



granulosa 585 



lamellosa 585 



lineata 584,585 



lirata 585 



nana 584,585 



persculpta 576, 584, 585 



trochiformis 584, 585 



undulata 585 



yallahsensis.... 585 



Lumbriconereis minuta ^94 



tetraura ^^^ 



Lumbrineridae 282 



Lumbrineris 285, 288, 290 



bifilaris 288,291,295 




1911.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



625 



Lumbrineris bifurcata 292 



erecta 288 



hebes 290 



inflata 289 



japonica index 288 



minuscula 294 



tetraura 288,291 



Lupinus leucophyllus 66, 84 



parviflorus 66 



Lupia perovata 337, 360 



Lycengraulis grossidens 220 



Lycopodium 66,88 



Lycopus sinuatus 66, 86 



Lycosa 406,409 



aspersa 453 



avida 454 



carolinensis 453 



frondicola 453 



gracilis 454 



helluo 453 



lenta 453 



lepida 396, 402-405, 407,409 



ocreata 454 



pulchra 454 



punctulata 454 



rabida 454 



scutulata 402, 404, 406, 409 



Lycosidae 453 



Lygodesmia grandiflora 66, 90 



Lymna5a obrussa 198 



parva 198 



Lymnffiidae 198 



Macoma sabulosa 536 



Macrocallista maculata 370 



Mactra dariensis 371 



Mactridae 371 



Madia glomerata 66, 85 



Maevia niger 455 



Malea 338 



camura 356,356 



ringens 55^,356 



Mallotus villosus 555 



Malvastrum coccineum 66, 88 



munroanum 36, 66, 82, 98 



Mammilaria 66, 85 



Mangelia heptagona S4S 



Mangora gibberosa 450 



maculata 450 



placida 450 



Manta birostris 5 



Mantidse 319 



Mantinae 321 



Mantis (Photina) agrionina 326 



(Danuria?) galeata 323 



(Stagmatoptera) lineola 322 



macra 322 



mendica 328 



variegata 321 



Maransis 332 



rufolineatus 332 



Margaritella abbotti 534, 535 



Marginella coniformis 348 



gatunensis 347 



leander 347 



limonensis 347 



Marginellidse 347 



Marphysa conferta 252 



Marpissa undata 465 



Maso frontata 447 



Matricaria discoidea 66 



Maurolicidae 570 



Maurolicus attenuatus 570 



Medicago sativa 66, 90 



Megalops cyprinoides 204 



Melanogrammus seglifinis 16 



Meleagrina margaritifera 115 



Melica poaeoides 66, 97 



Menidia menidia notata 11, 203 



Mentha 27 



canadensis 35, 40, 66, 87, 88 



Menticirrhus 3 



americanus 203 



littoralis 15 



saxatilis 15, 203 



Mentzelia albicaulis 67, 83 



Isevicaulis 38, 67,89 



pumilis 67 



Meretrix dariena .«. 371 



Merluccius bilinearis 16 



Mertensia alpina 67, 95 



Mesogonistius 4, 13 



chaetodon 12 



Mesomphix 470, 478, 479, 484 



andrewsaj 478-480, 484, 485 



a. montivaga 485 



elliptica 478 



fuliginosa 478 



inornata 478-480, 484, 485 



laevigata, 478, 478, 480, 482, 483, 

 526, 527, 529, 530 



1. latior 482 



1. monticola 480, 483 



1. perlaevis 482 



olivetorum 475 



perfragilis 483 



rugeli 478, 479, 484, 485 



r. oxycoccus 484 



subplana 478, 479, 483-485 



virginalis 478 



walkeri 478 



Mesopus japonicus 555 



olidus 555 



pretiosus 555 



Metepeira labyrinthea 450 



Metula cancellata 351 



gabbi 351 



Micaria agilis 442 



Micromphix 479 



Microneta cornupalpis 448 



Micropogon undulatus 14 



Micropterus dolomieu 13 



salmoides 13 




626 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



Microseris 77 



linearifolia 67 



major 67 



Microstoma microstoma 556 



Microstomidae 556 



Mimetidse 448 



Mimetus interfector 448 



Mimulus luteus 27 



Miomantis affinis S2S 



kilimandjarica 323 



pharaonica 323 



Misumena oblonga 451 



vatia 451 



Misumessus asperatus 451 



Mitella 27,39 



trifida 67,89 



Mitra dariensis 346 



longa 346,347 



sp 347 



Mitrid« 346 



Moggridgea 394-396 



Mola mola 16 



Monardella odoratissima 67, 90 



Monolepis chenopodoidea 67, 82 



Mopalia 487 



heathii 487 



(Dendrochiton) heathii 488-491 



(Dendrochiton) thamnopora, 487, 

 489, 491 



Mopaliidse 487 



Morone 3 



americana 14 



Mugil 3 



cephalus 11,203 



curema 11, 12 



Murex domingensis 354 



polynematicus 353 



(Phyllonotus) gatunensis 354 



messorius 353 



recurvirostris 353,354 



spinulosa 354 



Muricidse 353 



Mustelus mustelus 161, 203 



Mya 536 



Myctophidse 569 



Myctophum affine 570 



hygomi 570 



phengodes 570 



punctatum 570 



reinhardti 570 



Mygale stridulans 412 



Myliobatis fremingvillii 16 



Myxine glutinosa 5 



Nannobrachium macdonaldi 569 



Nasturtium paiustre 67, 88, 91 



Natica eminula 337 



guppyana 360 



rugosa 360 



sp 360 



subclausa 360 



Naticidse 360 



Natrix 4 



Negundo... 74, 82, 8%85 



aceroides 67, 81 



Nemastoma 440 



dasycnemum 456 



Neon neUi 456 



Nephthydidse 243 



Nephthys assimiUs 243 



caeca 243 



ciliata 243 



hombergi 243 



iiicisa 243 



longisetosa 243 



mahngreni 243 



Nereidse 244 



Nereine clathrata 448 



Nereis agassizi 24-7 



cyclurus 246 



paucidentata 246 



procera 244 



Nicotiana attenuata 34,67, 90 



quadrivalvis 35 



Ninoe fusca 285, 287 



gemmea 283 



simpla 287 



Notemigonus 509 



Nothria 254,273 



geophiUformis 256, 259 



iridescens 255, 261 



hiatidentata 259 



holobranchia 259 



pallida 256, 260, 261 



sp 259 



NotioneUa interpres 446 



Notopteridae 205 



Notopterus chitala 205 



Notropis 4 



bifrenatus 8 



chalybaeus 4, 8, 9 



cornutus 8 



hudsonius amarus 8 



photogenis amcenus 8 



procne 8 



whipplii analostanus 8 



Nucula castrensis 362 



cordata 362 



decisa 362 



(Acila) isthmica 361 



Nuculidae 361 



Octolasmis 171, 172 



antiguse 172 



forresti 171 



hoelci 172 



occlusa 172 



prototypus 171, 172 



Ocypode albicans 3 



Odontognathus mucronatus 210 



ffinothera biennis 67, 96 



caespitosa 67,82 



Oleacinidse 575,579 



Oligolophus pictus 456 



Oliva 336 



gatunensis 348 




1911.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



627 



Oliva liodes... 3^8 



reticularis 348 



r. gatunensis 348 



Olividse 348 



Omphalina, 469, 470, 473-476 478, 



479, 484 



andrewsae 469 



caduca 470 



cuprea 469-474, 478, 485, 528 



c. ozarkensis 470, 472 



c. polita 471, 474 



friabilis 469-476, 526, 529 



fuliginosa 469,476 



f. ozarkensis 4'^2 



f. polita 474 



inornata 469 



kopnodes 470, 471, 474-476 



laevigata 480 



1. latior !^2 



1. perlaevis ^82 



laminarum 471 



lucubrata 470 



pilsbryi 470, 474, 475, 483 



rugeli oxycoccus 4^4 



zonites 470 



Omphix 479 



Oncorhynchus kisutch 552 



nerka 552 



tschawytscha 552 



Onuphidae 254 



Onuphis 254 



nebulosa 269 



parva 263 



vexillaria 266 



Opeas gracile 574 



micra 574,579 



pumilum 574 



Ophibolus 550 



calligaster 550 



Opisthonema oglinum 16, 207 



Opisthoptems macrognathus 210 



Opsanus tau 203 



Opuntia microseris 67 



rutila 67 



Oreohelix 176,177,184 



barbata 183 



cooperi 186, 190 



strigosa 186 



s. depressa, 176, 177, 186, 187, 

 190, 191 



yavapai 176, 177, 183, 184 



y. angelica 176, 183, 185, 186 



y. extremitatus....l76, 183, 184-186 



y. neomexicana 183 



y. profundorum .176, 180, 182-186 



Orogenia linearifolia 67, 84 



Orthaulax 337,355 



gabbi 355 



Orthocarpus linearifolius 68, 90, 92 



Orthoderinae 319 



Orthopristis chrysopterus 16 



Oryzopsis cuspidata 68, 97 



Osmerus eperlanus 555 



mordax 7 



sergenti 555 



thaleichthys 555 



Osmorrhiza 62 



nuda 68,89 



Osteoglossidae 220 



Osteoglossum bicirrhosum 220 



guntheri 220 



jardinii 220 



leichardti 220 



Ostrea gatunensis 366 



hyotis 366 



iridescens 366 



aff vespertina 366 



Ostreida? 366 



Ovalipes ocellatus 3 



Oxyopes salticus 454 



Oxyopidae 454 



Oxyophthalma gracila 323 



gracilis 324 



Oxyophthalmus 323,324 



somalicus 323 



Oxypilus 326 



capensis 326 



Oxyria digyna 68, 80 



Oxystylaundatajamaicensis ...577, 579 



Pachygnatha tristriata 448 



Pachystima myrsinites 27, 68, 92 



Palaemonetes vulgaris 3,4 



Palissya diffusa 19 



obtusa 19,20 



sphenolepis 19 



Palpimanus 394 



Paralepas 171 



Paralepidae : 571 



barracudina 571 



pseudocoregonoides 571 



Paralichthys dentatus 15, 203 



Parapagurus 280 



Parasphendale minor 326 



Pardosa 404 



canadensis 453 



lapidicina 402,453 



minima 453 



raoesta 453 



retrorsa 453 



Parnassia fimbriata 40, 68 



parviflora 68,93 



Paroxyophthalmus coUaris 324 



Patula strigosa var. cooperi 186 



s. cooperi var. depressa 186 



Patulopsis carinata 470 



Pecten (^Equipecten) effosus 364 



excentricus 365 



gatunensis 365,565 



(Amusium) gatunensis 365 



(Flabellipecten) gatunensis.... 365 



levicostatus 365 



(Amusium) lyonii 365 



(Amusium) mortoni 365 




628 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



[Dec, 



Pecten nucleus 365 



(^quipecten) operculari- 



formis 365 



(Plagioctenium) operculari- 



formis 365 



papyracea 365 



scissuratus 364 



thetidis 365 



(Amusium) toulae 365 



Pectinidae 364 



Pectunculus acuticostatus 364 



Pedanostethus riparius 445 



Pellenes borealis 455 



peregrinus 455 



Pellonia bleekeriana 210 



castelnaeana 210 



Pellonula 208 



Pentstemon confertus 68, 96 



glaber 27 



Perca 4 



flavescens 13 



Perenna 585 



Petaloconchus domingensis 359 



Petromyzon marinus 5 



Peucedanum 26 



graveolens 40, 68, 81 



simplex 68, 81 



Peucetia viridans 454 



Phacelia circinata 68 



menziesii 68,98 



Phalangidae 456 



Phalaris 69 



arundinacea 68,86 



Phanetta 397,398 



Phasmidae 328 



Phenacogaster bairdii 422 



bondi 419, 421, 422, 424 



megalostictus 421 



microstictus 422 



pectinatus 421 



Phibalosominse 335 



Phidippus 396,403-406 



andax 454 



insigniarius 454 



podagrosus 454 



purpuratus 402 



rufus 455 



Philasus militaris 455 



Philodromus carolinus 452 



ornatus 452 



rufus 452 



Phlegra leopardus 455 



Phloeum alopecurus 69 



alpinum 69 



Phlox longifolia 26, 69, 91 



Pholcidae 441 



Pholcus 395, 396, 413 



phalangoides 441 



Phoradendron juniperum 69 



Phos gabbi 349, 350 



gatunensis 349,350 



metuloides 349, 350 



Phos semicostatus 350 



subsemicostatus 350 



Phragmites 38 



communis 69, 88 



Phrurolithus alarius 442 



formica 442 



palustris 442 



sp 442 



Phrynosoma cornutum 229 



douglassii brevirostre 229 



frontale 229 



hernandezi 229 



h. ornatissimum 229 



modestum 229 



regale 229 



Phthoa.. 334 



occidentalis 334 



prolixa 334 



Physa gyrina 198 



humerosa 198 



orbignyana 198 



traskii 198 



virgata 198 



Physidae 198 



Piabucina astrigata 515 



aureoguttata 513 



Piabucininse 513 



Pimephales 4 



notatus 7 



Pinacese 19 



Pinus edulis 69, 79, 92 



monophylla 33, 40, 69, 92 



Pirata minuta .-. 454 



montana 454 



Pisauridae 452 



Pisaurina undata 452 



Pisidium sp 198 



Pitar centangulata 369 



circinata 370 



cora 370 



fioridana 369 



hilli 370 



Pitaria (Lamelliconcha) circinata .. 370 



(Hyphantosoma) floridana 369 



(Lamelhconcha) hillii 370 



(Hyphantosoma) opistho- 



grammata 369,370 



Pituophis catenifer deserticola 232 



Plagyodontidae 571 



Plagyodus ferox 571 



Planorbis defiectus 198 



tenuis 198 



Plantago eriopoda 69, 94 



major 69 



patagonica 69, 94 



Platynereis agassizi 247 



Plecoglossus 497 



altivelis 555 



Plecostomus verres 436 



Plectana stellata 450 



Pleurodonte 124, 128, 139, 159 




mil.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 



629 



Pleurodonte acuta acuta 143 



a. goniosmos, 126-128, 130, 139, 



140, 143-147, 149, 150, 152-154, 



157, 160-162, 580 



a. patina 143 



a. semperfluens 578, 580 



a. sublucerna 578 



(Dendrocochlis) aspera 573 



bainbridgei 135-138, 156, 157 



b. pretiosa 135, 136, 138 



(Eurycratera) jamaicensis, 126, 



127, 130, 132, 573, 578 



lucerna 573 



sinuata 573 



sinuosa 578 



sloaneana 573 



subacuta 580 



Pleuronectia lyonii 365 



Pleurotoma albida 343 



censors 345 



gertrudis 345 



(Genota) gertrudis 345 



Pleurotomaria abbotti 534, 535 



crotaloides 534, 534, 535, 535 



woolmani 534, 535 



Pleurotomidai 343 



Poa californica 69, 93 



pratensis 70, 80, 85 



tenuifolia 69,86 



Podozamites formosus 17 



Poecilasma 172 



(Temnaspis) fissum 171 



tridens 172 



PcEciliidse 436 



Poenia 585 



Pogonias cromis 16 



Pogonomyrmex occidentals 37 



Polemonium cseruleum 70, 81 



Polinices subclausa 360 



Polygonum amphibium 70, 89 



erectum 70,80 



hartwrightii 70, 87, 92 



imbricatum 70 



juniperinum 70 



viviperum 70,94 



Polygyra albolabris 531 



a. alleni 526 



appressa perigrapta 531 



denotata 526, 531 



inflecta 526-530 



leporina 526-528,531 



monodon friersoni 531 



obstricta carolinensis 527 



thyroidus 526-531 



Polyschides 168 



Polyspilota 321 



pustulata 321 



striata 321 



variegata 321 



Polytrichum 63 



juniperinum 88, 89, 93 



Pomatomus saltatrix 12, 203 



Pomolobus aestivalis 6, 206 



chrysochloris 206 



mediocris 6,206 



melanostomus 20S 



pseudoharengus 3, 6, 206 



Populus angustifolia 70, 91 



tremuloides 70, 91 



Poronotus triacanthus 12 



Potentilla anserina 70 



fruticosa 70, 97, 98 



glandulosa 70,89 



pennsylvanica 71, 83, 84 



plattensis 71 



Primula parryi 71, 90, 94 



Prionotus carolinus 15, 203 



Pristigaster flavipinnis 210 



Pristis pectinatus 16 



Prochilodinae 495 



Prochilodus amazonensis 497 



cephalotes x 497 



humeralis 497 



ortonianus 497 



steindachneri 497 



stigmaturus 495 



teraponura 497 



Proserpina nitida 576 



Proserpinida; 576 



Proserpi nuJa inf ortunata 573 



Prunus demissa 27, 34, 39, 71, 95, 96 



Pseudauchenipterus guppyi 433, 436 



nigrolineatus 434 



paseae 434 



Pseudopleuronectes americanus .15, 203 



Pseudotsuga douglasii ,,.35, 71, 80, 97 



Pterengraulis atherinoides 22Q 



Ptilichnus 544,545 



anomalus 545, 546 



hydrodromus 545 



pectinatus 545 



Pupa hebes 197 



syngenes 193 



Pupilla 184,194 



blandi 194 



hebes 197 



h. kaibabensis 197 



syngenes 193—195 



s. avus 176, 195, 196 



s. dextroversa 194-196 



Pupillida; 193 



Pupoides hordacea 193 



marginata 193 



Purshia tridentata 26, 71, 81 



Pygocentrus stigmaterythraeus 424 



Pygopristis 432 



serrulatus 432 



Pyramidula alternata 526-532 



(Gonyodiscus) cronkhitei 191 



Pyrula near papyratia 356 



Pyrus sambucifolia 71 



Quercus undulata 27,34,71,83 



Raja eglanteria 5 



eiinacea 16 




«30 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



Raja laevis 16 



ocellata 5 



Rana clamata 4 



fisheri... 224 



palustris 4 



pipiens 4,224 



p. brachycephala 224 



Ranunculus 69 



aquatilis 30, 71, 84, 88 



cymbalaria 71, 86 



sceleratus 72, 81 



Reptilia 224 



Rhinichthys 4 



atronasus 8 



cataractse 4 



Rhinoptera bonasus 16 



Rhinoscopelus cocco 570 



Rhoadsia 497 



altipinna 497,498 



Rhoadsinse 497 



Rhus aromatica 27 



aromatica var. trilobata..72, 79, 82 



glabra 72,80 



toxicodendron 72, 92 



Rhysota brookei 470 



Ribes 27 



aureum 34, 72, 82, 90 



divaricatum 34, 72, 98 



lacustre 34, 72, 79 



leptanthum 34 



1. var. brachyanthum 72,79 



oxycanthoides 72,96 



Rissola marginata 16 



Roccus 3 



lineatus 13 



Rosa calif ornica 27, 34, 72, 96 



fendleri 72,96 



nutkana 27, 72, 84, 92 



Rubus leucodermis 34, 73, 96 



nutkanus 73 



Rudbeckia occidentalis 73, 97 



Rumex salicifolius 73, 80 



Runcinia aleatoria 451 



Sagartia sp 282 



Sagda 127, 580, 581 



alveolata 580 



adamsiana 581, 582, 582, 583 



australis 580 



connectens 582 



cookiana 579-582 



epistylium 583 



jayana 579,582,55^,583 



montegoensis 574, 583 



spei 578,583 



Sagittaria variabilis 73, 87, 89 



Salangidse 556 



Salanx hyalocranius 556 



Salicornia 31 



herbacea 26, 31, 73, 87 



Salix amygdaloides 74, 91 



. flavescens 74, 91 



lasiandra 35, 74, 91 



Salix longifolia 35, 73 



Salmo carinatus 663 



clarkii 553 



c. lewisi 553 



c. pleuriticus '. 553 



c. stomias 553 



c. virginalis 553 



eriox 552 



fario 552 



irideus 553 



agua-bonita 553 



gilberti... 553 



roosevelti 553 



shasta 553 



whitei 553 



mykiss 552 



perryi 552 



pleuriticus 563 



rivularis 553 



roosevelti 553 



salar 7, 552 



s. lacustris 552 



s. stomias 563, 553 



tudes 66j^ 



varius 568, 569 



whitei 653 



Salmonidae 551 



Saltator 545, 546 



Salvelinus alpinus killinensis 554 



a. perisii 554 



a. stagnalis 554 



a. umbla 554 



a. willughbii 554 



fontinalis 7, 554 



malva 554 



oquassa 554 



o. marstoni 554 



Sambucus 71 



glauca 74, 87 



racemosa 27, 74, 83 



Saponaria vaccaria 74, 91 



Sarcobatus vermiculatus 26, 74 



Sarcocystis muris 458 



rileyi 457, 463, 466, 467 



Sarcosporidia 457 



Sardinella 207 



atricauda 206 



chapra 207 



granigera 206 



humeralis 206 



hypselosoma 206 



macrophthalma 207 



perforata 206 



sardina 207 



stolifera 207 



Sassacus papenhoei 456 



Saurida 568 



gracilis 569 



tumbil 569 



Saurus variegatus 568 



Saxicava 536, 541 



arctica 536 




1911.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



631 



Saxifraga nivalis 68, 74, 83, 95 



punctata 74 



Scalpellum gracilis 173 



hendersoni 172 



proximum 282 



Scaphandridae 339 



Scaphiopus conchii :... 223 



hammondi 223 



Scaphopoda 165 



Sceloporus biseriatus 228 



clarkii.... 227 



consobrinus 227 



couchi 228 



graciosus 228 



jarrovii 227 



magister 227 



merriami ,. 228 



occidentalis 228 



Schilbeodes 4 



gyrinus 9 



Schizocephala chalybsea 325 



Scisenops ocellatus 16, 203 



Scirpus lacustris var. occidentalis 74, 91 



maritimus 30 



validus 30, 74, 79 



Scleropages guntheri 220 



leichardti 220 



Scomber scombrus 12 



Sconsia laevigata 356 



Scotina 442 



Scotinella 442 



pallida 442 



Scotolemon brunnea 456 



Scutellaria 66, 76 



Scytodes thoracica 440 



Scytodidaj 440 



Sedum debile 86 



glandulosum 35, 74 



Selene vomer 16 



Semele sayi 368 



Semotilus 4 



atromaculatas 7 



buUaris 7 



Senecio 35, 74, 93 



Sergiolus cyaneoventris 441 



variegatus 441 



Seriola zonata 16 



Sen-asalmina? 424 



Serrasalmo albus 432 



(Pygocentrus) notatus 428 



Serrasalums sesopus 432 



brandtii 432 



caribe 432 



coccogenis 428 



elongatus 432 



gibbus 432 



gymnogenys 432 



humeralis 432 ! 



iridopsis 432 i 



maculatus 432 



marginatus 432 



paraensis... 432 



Serrasalums rhombeus 432 



spilopleura 432 



unimaculatus 432 



Serripes grcenlandicus 536 



Seserinus paru 16 



Shepherdia argentea 26, 75, 80 



canadensis 75 



Sidalcea malvseflora 75, 84, 85 



Sigaretus gatunensis 360 



(Lupia) gatunensis S60 



perspectivus 360 



Sigmataxis laeviusculus 575 



Signalosa mexicana 211 



Silene acaulis.. 75, 93, 98 



antirrhina 75 



menziesii 35, 75, 99 



multicaulus 40, 75, 90 



scouleri 75 



Silurida? 433 



Singa truncata 450 



Sisymbrium canescens 32, 75, 90 



Slum cicutsefolium 75, 88, 95 



Smilacina amplexicaulis, 27,75,81,82,91 



stellata 75,88 



Solanum tuberosum 76, 81 



Solariidse 360 



Solarium alveatum 337 



gatunense ." 360 



granulatum 360 



g. gatunensis 360 



quadriseriatum 360 



Solecurtus gatunensis 372 



strigillatus 372 



Solenida;.. 372 



Solenosteira 338 



anomala 349 



dalU 348,349 



elegans 349 



mengeana 349 



pallida 349 



vaughani 349 



Solidago canadensis 76, 86 



nemoralis 76,86 



spectabilis 76 



Sonchus asper 76, 85 



Sonorella 176, 178, 179 



coloradoensis, 174, 176, 178, 179,184 



Spartina gracilis 76, 86 



Sphaeralcea emoryi 76, 82, 89 



malvastrum 76 



rivularis 76,90 



Sphseriidae 198 



Spheroides maculatus 16, 203 



Sphodromantis 322 



lineola 322 



rudolfa; 322 



Sphodropoda rudolfae 322 



Sphyrna zygaena 5 



Spintharus flavidus 446 



Spiraea caespitosa 39, 76, 93 



millefolium 40 



Spiranthes romazoffiana 76, 91 




632 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



Spirostemma tenelJa 575 



Spratelloides bryoporus 205 



Squalus acanthias 16 



Squatina dumerili 5 



squatina 5 



Stachys palustris 76,90 



Steatoda borealis 445 



Stenotomus chrysops 14 



Stephanomeria exigua 77, 84 



Sternoptychidse 571 



Sterriothaerus 4 



Stilosoma extenuatum 549 



Stipa comata 77, 81 



speciosa 77 



viridula 77,89 



Stoastoma 576 



pisum 126 



Stolephorus delicatulus 205 



puipureus 214 



surinamensis 211 



Stomias 559 



barbatus 556, 559 



boa 559 



bonapartei 556 



Stomiatidae 556 



Streptaxis 581 



Striatura milium 527, 529 



m. meridionalis 528 



Strobilops labyrinthica, 526, 528, 530, 



531 



strebeli 531,532 



s. senea 527, 529-531 



texasiana 528,529 



Strombidae 355 



Strombina 338, 353 



cyphonotus 352, 353 



dorsata...! 353 



lessepsiana 352 



mira 352 



prisma 352 



Strombus bifrons 355 



gatunensis 355 



pugilis alatus 355 



sp 355 



Styela 282 



Subulina octona 574, 579 



Succinea avara 192 



grosvenori 193 



hawkinsi 192 



latior 575 



retusa 192 



Succineidse 575 



Sudis hyalina 571 



Suaeda depressa 26, 97 



Symphoricarpos oreophilus 79, 94 



Synemosyna formica 456 



Syngnathus fuscus 12, 203 



Synodontidae 563 



Sy nodus dermatogenys 566, 568 



dominicensis 564 



foetans 16,563 



intermedius 564 



Synodus lucioceps 564 



poeyi 566- 



saurus 563 



sharpi 568, 569, 669- 



variegatus 568 



varius 568 



Tapinopa bilineata 448- 



Tarachodes 319 



aestuans 320 



karschii 319" 



media 320 



smithi 5,20,320 



taramassi 3^0,320 



Taraxacum officinale 77, 92 



Tarpon atlanticus 204 



Tautoga onitis 15, 203 



Tautogolabrus adspersus 203 



Tegenaria derhami 443 



Telara telara 220 



Taxodium distichum 19^ 



Tellina dariena 368 



gatunensis 368 



laceridens 368 



laevigata 368 



lepidota 368 



(Phyllodina) lepidota 368 



rowlandi 368 



sp 368 



Tellinidge 368 



Terebra gatunensis 339, 340 



(Oxymeria) gatunensis 339 



gausapata 340 



haitiensis 339 



panamensis 340 



subsulcifera 339 



sulcifera 339 



woKgangi 340 



(Oxymeria) wolfgangi 3^ 



Terebridae 339 



Teredidae 372 



Teredo dendrolestes 372 



Tesseracme 338 



Tetradymia canescens 26 



c. var. inermis 77,91 



Tetragnatha 396 



grallator 449 



laboriosa 449 



Tetragnathidse 448 



Tetragonopterinae 419, 497, 502 



Tetragonopterus 421 



festae 509 



petenensis 512 



simus 512 



Tetrodontidae 437 



Teutana triangulosa 445 



Thaleichthys pacificus 555 



Thamnophis eques 232 



parietalis 232 



Theopompa 327 



Theridiosoma radiosa 451 



Theridiidse 444 




1911.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 



633 



Theridium 396 



atrimontanum 444 



blandum 445 



differens 444,445 



frondeum 445 



globosum 445 



kentuckyense 397 



murarium 445 



porteri 397 



punctosparsum 444 



rupicola 444 



spirale 444 



tepidariorum, 377, 379-393, 395, 

 397,413,414,444 



Theridula sphserula.. 445 



Thiodina sylvanus 455 



Thomisidse 451 



Thracia gatunensis 372 



Thryssa valenciennesi 220 



Thuya plicata 20 



Thymallidse 555 



Thymallus thymallus 555 



tricolor 555 



Thysanophora apex 574, 578 



diminuta 574, 578 



dioscoricola 574,578 



epistyliulum 578 



hornii 191 



inconspicua 574 



ingersolli 191 



spreta 574,578 



turbiniformis 578 



Tmarus caudatus 452 



Townsendia sericea 77, 85 



Trachelas tranquilla 442 



Trachinocephalus my ops 563 



Trachinotus 3 



carolinus 12 



falcatus 203 



Trachycardium 338 



Trifolium 77,95 



Triglochin maritimum 32, 77, 88, 90 



Triportheus 433 



flavus 433 



Trisetum subspicatum ...77, 98 



Trochosa cinerea 454 



frondicola 405 



Troglohyphantes.. 396,397 



Troximon aurantiacum 30, 77, 85 



Truncatellidae 575 



Tudora arcuata 577, 580 



fecunda 579 



Turritella 359 



altilira 358,359 



altilirata 358,359 



conradi 358 



gabbi 358 



gatunensis S5S, 358 



mimetes 357 



planigyrata 358 



sapotensis 359 



subannulata.... 358 



Turritella terebriformis 359 



tornata 359 



tristis 358,358 



uvasana 358 



variegata 357 



Turritellida) 357 



Turritidae 343 



Tutelina elegans 455 



Tylosurus 3 



marinus 11, 203 



Typha latifoUa 32, 77, 94 



Typhis alatus 354 



gabbi 354 



martyria 354 



obesus 354 



Uloboridse 451 



Uloborus plumipes 451 



Ulva 545 



enteromorpha 538, 544 



Umbra 4 



pygmaea 10 



Unisulcus 545 



Urocoptidae 574, 579 



Urocoptis brevis 579 



gravesii 574 



sanguinea 579 



Uroctea 394 



TJrophycis regius 16 



Urtica holosericea 77, 93 



Uta ornata 226 



stansburyana 226 



symmetrica 226 



Vaccinium csespitosum 35, 78 



Valeriana 39 



edulis.. ...38, 78, 94 



sylvatica 78 



Valerianella congesta 78, 80 



Vallonia cyclophorella 197 



perspectiva 197 



VaUoniidai 197 



Varicella blandiana 575 



costulata 579 



dissimilis 579 



propinqua 575 



Veneridaj 368 



Venus circinata 370 



ulocyma 369 



Veratrum californicum 78, 81 



Vermetidae 359 



Verruca nexa alba 173 



Vertigo coloradoensis arizonensis... 197 



concinnula 197 



milium 527 



oscariana 528 



rugulosa 529 



Vicia americana 78 



Viola cucuUata 78 



palustris 78,81 



Vitrea hammonis 526, 528 



indentata 526-532 



i. umbihcata 191, 527-531 



significans 526 




634 



PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



Vitrina alaskana 191 



limpida 191,483 



pfeifferi 191 



Volvulella sp 339 



Wala mitrata 455 



palmarum 455 



Wyethia amplexicaulus 32, 38, 78, 89 



Xanthium strumarium var. echi- 



natum 78,84 



Xylica 328 



abbreviata 328 



kikuyuensis 328 



kilimandjarica 328 



caligulata 328 



Xysticus ferox 451 



formosus 451 



giilosus 452 



triguttatus 451 



Yersinia 325 



Zamites velderi 18 



Zaphysema columellata 573 



macmurryi 126, 127 



Zauschneria calif ornica 78, 85 



Zea mais 78, 83 



Zelotes atra 441 



depressa 441 



frigida 441 



Zilla montana 45Q 



Zoarces angularis 15 



Zonites algirus 470 



kopnodes 4^4 



Isevigatus 483 



perfragilis 483 



rugeli 484 



Zonitida; 191, 469, 478 



Zonitoides arborea 192, 527-532 



excavata 470 



milium meridionaUs 192 



minuscula 192, 526-529, 531 



nitida 470 



singleyana 526, 529, 530, 532 



Zonyalina jalapensis 470 



Zygadenus nuttalli 40, 78, 92 



Zygoballus parvus 456 



sexpunctatus 455 




1911.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



635 



GENERAL INDEX. 

 1911. 



Additions to Museum, 1911, 607. 



Ameghino, Florentine, announcement 

 of death of, 522. 



Andr4, Ernest, announcement of death 

 . of, 533. 



Banks, Nathan. Some Arachnida from 

 North CaroUna (Plates XXXIV, 

 XXXV), 440. 521. 



Berry, S. S. A note on the genus 

 Lolliguncula (Plate VI), 100.^ A 

 new California Chiton (Plate XL), 

 487, 521. 



Biddle, William T., announcement of 

 death of, 22. 



Bilgram, Hugo. On moulting of Cater- 

 pillars (no abstract), 22. 



Biological and Microscopical Section, 

 report of, 599. 



Botanical Section, report of, 600. 



Boyer, Charles S. Report of Biological 

 and Microscopical Section, 599. 

 On Selenite and Leucite (no 

 abstract), 22. 



Branner, John Casper, receives Hayden 

 Memorial Medal, 548. 



Brown, Amos P., Ph.D. New Cycads 

 and Conifers from the Trias of 

 Pennsylvania (Plates I-V), 17, 22. 

 Variations in some Jamaican species 

 of Pleurodonte (Plates VII-XI), 

 23, 117. The formation of Ripple- 

 marks, Tracks, and Trails (Plates 

 XLI, XLII), 533, 536. 



Brown, Amos P., Ph.D., and Henry A. 

 PiLsbry, Sc.D. Fauna of the Gatun 

 Formation, Isthmus of Panama 

 (Plates XXII-XXIX), 336. 



Brown, Stewardson. On the Bond 

 Expedition to Venezuela (no ab- 

 stract), 549. Report of Botanical 

 Section, 601. 



ChamberUn, Ralph V. The Ethno- 

 Botany of the Gosiute Indians, 

 22, 24. 



Committee on Hayden Memorial 

 Award, 170. Report of, 548. 



Committees, Standing, 1911, 521. 



Conklin, E. G., Ph.D. On the Zoo- 

 logical Station at Naples and the 

 Zoological Congress at Graz (no 

 abstract), 374. 



Corresponding Secretary, report of, 

 591 



Council for 1912, 604. 



Crawley, Howard. Observations on 

 Sarcocystis rileyi (Stiles) (Plate 

 XXX VI), 4.57, 521. 



Curator of William S. Vaux Collections^ 

 report of, 599. 



Curators, report of, 596 



Department of MoUusca, report of, 598. 



Elections in 1911, 605. 



Entomological Section, report of, 600. 



Fowler, Henry W. The Fishes of 

 Delaware, 1, 3. A new Flat Fish 

 from New Jersey, 200. Notes on 

 Clupeoid Fishes, 204. Some Fishes 

 from Venezuela, 419, 521. New 

 fresh-water Fishes from western 

 Ecuador, 493, 521. Notes on Sal- 

 monoid and related Fishes, 533, 551. 



Fox, Herbert, M.D. Exhibition of 

 pathological preparations, 22. 



General Index, 635. 



Harshberger, John W., Ph.D. Vege- 

 j tation of southern Florida (no 

 I abstract), 533. 



I Haseltine, Frank, announcement of 

 ! death of, 22. 



Hayden Memorial Award, Committee 

 on, 170. Report of, 548. 



Hooker, Joseph, announcement of 

 death of, 550. 



Index to Genera, 616. 



Jones, Gulielma M.S. P., announce- 

 ment of death of, 521. 



Jones, Thomas Rupert, announcement 

 of death of, 521. 



Keeley, Frank J. Micro-Spec troscopic 

 Observations, 22, 23, 106. Ap- 

 pointment as Curator of William S. 

 Vaux Collections, 170. Report of 

 Curator of the William S. Vaux 

 Collections, 599. 



LeConte, John L., M.D., presentation 

 of portrait of, 233. 



Librarian, report of, 593. 



Little, Amos R., announcement of 

 death of, 170. 



Lloyd, Malcolm, announcement of 

 death of, 533. 



Lyman, Benjamin Smith. Report of 

 Mineralogical and Geological Sec- 

 tion, 602. 



McAllister, James W., announcement 

 of death of, 548. 



McCook, Rev. Henry C, announce- 

 ment of death of, 533. 



M'Indoo, Norman Eugene, Ph.D. 

 The lyriform organs and tactile 

 hairs in Araneads (Plates XXX- 

 XXXIII), 375, 521. 



Maskelyn, Nevil Storv, announcement 

 of death of, 521. 




636 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



Mineralogical and Geological Section, 

 report of, 602. 



Montgomery, Thomas H. On Natural 

 History Museums (no abstract), 170. 



Moore, Clarence B. Some aboriginal 

 Sites on Mississippi River, 374. 



Moore, J. Percy, Ph.D. On Poly- 

 chsetous Annehds dredged by the 

 S. S. "Albatross" off the coast of 

 southern California in 1904, III: 

 Euphrosynidae to Goniadidae (Plates 

 XV-XXI), 234. Report of Corre- 

 sponding Secretary, 591. 



Morris, Charles. On the extinction of 

 the Giant Reptiles (no abstract), 533. 



Nolan, Edw. J. Report of Recording 

 Secretary, 589. Report of Libra- 

 rian, 593. 



Officers for 1912, 603. 



Ornithological Section, report of, 603. 



Owen, D. E., M.D. On Ishnia 

 nervosa (no abstract), 22. 



Pennypacker, Charles H., announce- 

 ment of death of, 233. 



Penrose, R. A. F., Jr., Ph.D. Report 

 on Hay den Memorial Award, 548. 



Pilsbry, Henry A., Sc.D. On the 

 Natural history of the Mexican 

 Boundary (no abstract), 1. Scapho- 

 poda of the Jamaican Oligocene 

 and Costa Rican Pliocene, 165. 

 Remarks on new Cirripedes, 170. 

 A new Ecphora of the Chesapeake 

 Miocene, 438. On the anatomy and 

 classification of the genera Ompha- 

 lina and Mcsomphyx (Plates 

 XXXVII-XXXIX), 469, 521. A 

 new East Indian Euciroa, 521, 

 523. Notes on some Pleuroto- 

 mariidse of the Cretaceous of New 

 Jersey, 522, 534. Report of Depart- 

 ment of Mollusca, 598. 



Pilsbry, Henry A., Sc.D., and Amos P. 

 Brown, Ph.D. On land Mollusca 

 of Montego Bay, Jamaica, with 

 notes on the land Mollusca of the 

 Kingston Region (Plate XLIII), 572. 



Pilsbry, Henry A., and James H. 

 Ferriss. Mollusca of the South- 

 western States, V: The Grand 

 Canyon and Northern Arizona 

 (Plates XII-XIV), 174. 



Rawle, Francis William, announce- 

 ment of death of, 521. 



Recording Secretary, report of, 589. 



Rehn, James A. G. The Hebard- 

 Academy Expeditions to the western 

 United States (no abstract), 1. 

 Record and descriptions of African 

 Mantidse and Phasmidse (Orthop- 

 tera), 233^ 319. 



Report of Biological and Microscopical 

 Tection, 599. 



Report of Botanical Section, 600. 



Report of Corresponding Secretary, 

 591. 



Report of Curators, 596. 



Report of Department of Mollusca, 

 598. 



Report of Entomological Section, 600. 



Report of Librarian, 593. 



Report of Mineralogical and Geological 

 Section, 602. 



Report of Ornithological Section, 603. 



Report of Recording Secretary, 589. 



Reports of Sections, 599. 



Romanowsky, Hennadius D., an- 

 nouncement of death of, 521. 



Scammon, Charles M., announcement 

 of death of, 521. 



Scudder, Samuel H., announcement of 

 death of, 521. 



Sections, reports of, 599. 



Shufeldt, R. W., M.D. A monograph 

 of the Procyonida;, 533, 548. 



Skinner, Henry, M.D. On notable 

 Butterflies (no abstract), 23. Pres- 

 entation of portrait of Dr. LeConte, 

 233. Report of Entomological Sec- 

 tion, 600. 



Standing Committees, 1911,521; 1912, 

 605. 



Stewart, Thomas S., M.D. Exhibi- 

 tion of pathological specimens, 22. 



Stone, Witmer. On some collections 

 of Reptiles and Batrachians from the 

 Western United States, 222, 233. 

 On the Fauna and Flora of western 

 Maryland, 522. Report of Ornith- 

 ological Section, 603. 



Tate, Ralph, announcement of death 

 of, 521. 



Tilghman, Benjamin Chew, announce- 

 ment of death of, 170. 



Trotter, Spencer, M.D. On the Men 

 of Barma Grande, etc. (no abstract), 

 233. 



Tucker, Henry, M.D. On poisonous 

 Snakes (no abstract), 170. Scale 

 variations in Stilosoma extenuatum 

 (A. E. Brown), 549. 



Van Sickle, W. H. On carnivorous 

 Plants (no abstract), 22. 



Vaux, George, Jr., appointment as 

 SoUcitor, 170. 



Vanatta, E. G. Mollusca of Arkansas, 

 Louisiana, and Mississippi, 522, 525. 



Wherry, Edgar T. On the Eleventh 

 International Geological Congress 

 (no abstract), 233. 



William S. Vaux Collection, report of 

 Curator, 599. 



Willoughby, Capt. Hugh L. On the 

 vegetation of Lake Okechobee and 

 the Everglades (no abstract), 533. 




PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1911. 



PLATE r. 



BROWN: NEW CYCADS AND CONIFERS, 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1911. 



PLATE II. 



BROWN: NEW CYCADS AND CONIFERS. 




n 




PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1911. 



PLATE III. 



BROWN: NEW CYCADS AND CONIFERS. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCT. PHILA, 1911. 



PLATE IV. 



BROWN; NEW CYCADS AND CONIFERS. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1911. 



PLATE V. 



BROWN; NEW CYCADS AND CONIFEHS. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1911. 



PLATE VI. 



BERRY ON LOLLIGUNCULA. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1911. 



PLATE VII. 



A. P. BROWN: JAMAICAN PLEURODONTS. 





L'PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1911. 



PLATE VIII. 



8 



A. P. BROWN- JAMAICAN PLEURODONTS. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1911. 



PLATE IX. 



8 



A. P. BROWN: JAMAICAN PLEURODONTS. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. -1911. 



PLATE X. 



10 



A. P. BROWN- JAMAICAN PLEURODONTS. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 19il. 



PLATE XI. 



6 



8 



10 



11 



A. P. BROWN: JAMAICAN PLEURODONTS. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHlLA. 1911. 



PLATE XIL 



^^^ 



18 



29 



^ ^ 



^ ^ ^ ^ ^ 



9 10 



^ ^ 



11 12 13 14 15 



!!? tfb m^ ^^ 



^^ ^m^ ^pp ^^^gi 



T^ OA «. 16 



19 ^ 20 



21 



23 



24 25 



17 



26 





27 



28 



29 



^ 



30 



PILSBRY AND FEKRISS: MOLLUSCA OF GRAND CANYON AND 

 NORTHERN ARIZONA. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 49H. 



PLATE Xlir. 



^ ^ ^ • 



13 



17 



21 



24 



10 



14 



18 



22 



25 



11 



(3b 



15 



19 



23 



2f> 



12 



16 



20 



27 



^^p 



28 



PILSBRY AND FERRISS: MOLLUSCA OF GRAND CANYON AND 

 NORTHERN ARIZONA. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1911. 



PLATE XIV. 



^^^B ^^^B 



la 



10 



( ^ 



11 





14 



15 



12 



If. 



»sAWB» 



17 



18 



19 



21 



<^ 



22 



20 



2ii 



PILSBRY AND FERRISS: MOLLUSCA OF GRAND CANYON AND 

 NORTHERN ARIZONA. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1911. 



PLATE XV. 



J. P. MOORE: POLYCH^ETOUS ANNELIDS. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1911. 



PLATE XVI 



■f* ie 17 



h P- MOORP; POLYCH^^TOUS ANNELIDS, 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1911. 



PLATE XVI r 



J. P. MOORE: POLYCH^STOUS ANNELIDS. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1911. 



PLATE XVIII. 



J. P. MOORE: POLYCH^ETOUS ANNELIDS. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 191i. 



PLATE XIX. 



J. P. MOORE: POLYCH^TOUS ANNELIDS. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1911. 



PLATE XX. 



J. P. MOORE: POLYCH.«TOUS ANNELIDS. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1911. 



PLATE XXI. 



J. P. MOORE: POLYCH^TOUS ANNELIDS. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1911. 



PLATE XXII. 



W^: 



BROWN AND PILSBRY: GATUN FOSSILS. 



k 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 19H. 



PLATE XXIII. 



BROWN AND PILSBRY; GATUN FOSSILS. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1911. 



PLATE XXIV. 



BROWN AND PILSBRY; GATUN FOSSILS. 





^ 



PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1911. 



PLATE XXV. 



4 



8 



6 



9 



11 



BROWN AND PILSBRY: GATUN FOSSILS. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1911 



PLATE XXVI. 



8 



9 



10 



BROWN AND PILSBRY- GATUN FOSSILS. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHlLA. 1911. 



pLa^e xxvif. 



BROWN AND PILSBRY: GATUN FOSSILS. 




i 




f ROC. ACAD. NAT. SCl. PHlLA. iSll. 



PLATE'.'XXVIII. 



9 10 



BROWN AND PILSBRY: GATUN FOSSILS. 





FROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1911. 



t>LATE XXiX. 



BROWN AND PILSBRY: GATUN FOSSILS. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1911. 



PLATE XXX. 



,Xs}r^A.g. 



h- 



n.neu.- 

 con.t 



ar 



^^ I m.nuc 

 - \/ neu.n. 

 neu.w. j 



N. E. Mclndoo del. 



McINDOO: LYRIFORM ORGANS AND TACTILE HAIRS OF ARANEADS. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1911. 



PLATE XXXI. 



in t,b. ^l 



n.f, b.m '5\c.n 



m.n. 

 nucc. 





nm ex.m. 



N. E. Mcliidoo del. 



McINDOO: LYRIFORM ORGANS AND TACTILE HAIRS OF ARANEADS. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1911. 



PLATE XXXII. 



N. K. Mclncloodel. 



McINDOO: LYRIFORM ORGANS AND TACTILE HAIRS OF ARANEADS. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1911 



PLATE XXXIII. 



N. E. Mclndoodel. 



MCINDOO- LYRIFORM ORGANS AND TACTILE HAIRS OF ARANEADS. 







PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHlLA. 1911. 



PLATE XXXIV. 



BANKS: ARACHNIDA FROM NORTH CAROLINA. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 191-1. 



PLATE XXXV. 



BANKS: ARACHNIDA FROM NORTH CAROLINA. 





PROC. ACAD NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1911. 



PLATE XXXVI. 



•I f,. 



O 



\ i 



c.sifl 



^< 



lUli 



.^' 



/. 



c 



e. 



^-0 c© ^O e.tf 



H. Crawley del. 



CRAWLEY: SARCOCYSTIS RILEYI (STILES). 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1911. 



PLATE XXXVII. 



iISJ 



PILSBRY: OMPHALINA AND MESOMPHIX. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1911. 



PLATE XXXVIII. 



PILSERY: OMPHALINA AND MESOMPHIX. 




I 






PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1911. 



PLATE XL. 



BERRY: NEW SPECIES OF MOPALIA. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1911. 



PLATE XLI. 



A.P.BROWN: RIPPLE-MARKS, TRACKS AND TRAILS. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1911 



PLATE XLII. 



A.P.BROWN: RIPPLE-MARKS, TRACKS AND TRAILS. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1911. 



PLATE XLIII. 



PILSBRY AND BROWN: LAND MOLLUSCA OF MONTEGO BAY. 






tMOt^mAi 




QH 



X 



A2 



V.63 



SehtU 



Academy of Natural Sciences 

 of Philadelphia 

 Proceedings 



PLEASE DO NOT REMOVE 

 CARDS OR SLIPS FROM THIS POCKET 



UNIVERSITY OF TORONTO LIBRARY 



5TOR^^^ 





