





PEOCEEDINGS 



OF THE 



ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES 



OF PHILADELPHIA. 



I860. 



PHILADELPHIA: 



PRINTED FOR THE ACADEMY. 



1861. 




I 




PROCEEDINGS 



OF TUE 



ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES 



OF PHILADELPHIA. 



1860. 



January 3(7. 

 Vice President Bridges in the Chair. 



Forty members present. 



Papers were presented for publication entitled, 



"Descriptions of new species of fossils, probably Triassic, from Vir- 

 ginia," by Wm. M. Gabb. 



<' Descriptions of new species of Cretaceous Fossils," by Wm. M. 

 Gabb. 



" Catalogue of the shell-bearing Mnllusca found in the vicinity of Mo- 

 hawk, N. Y./' by James Lewis, M. D. 



Permission being granted, the Report of the Biological Department 

 for December was read and ordered to be printed with the Proceed- 

 ines of the month. 



Mr. Lea, in referring to the death of Augustus E. Jessup, one of our old 

 members, mentioned that the deceased was elected iu 1818, and that 

 lie had been an ardent student of mineralogy and a most persevering 

 collector, being iu the habit of visiting on foot and collecting largely from dis- 

 tant localities. In 1819 he accompanied Major Long's expedition to the Rocky 

 Mountains as mineralogist and geologist, and handed in his report to the Depart- 

 ment, but for some reason, unknown at present, it was not inserted in the 

 Journal of that Expedition as published. Having entered into an active busi- 

 ness career, in which he was eminently successful, he retired in the year 

 1853 with an ample fortune, having made many friends by his probity, punc- 

 tuality and liberality. He was frank and open in his manners, prompt and 

 just in his dealings and liberal in his views. While immersed in the cares of 

 a large business, he did not forget his early attachment to the Academy. He 

 was unable, from his residence being at some distance, to attend the meetings, 

 but he watched with pleasure the groAVth and usefulness of our institution, 

 and was always ready to contribute liberally to promote the objects of Natural 

 History. He died suddenly, on the 17th day of December, 1850, at his resi- 

 dence in Wilmington, Del., in his 63d year. 



In conclusion Mr. Lea offered the following resolutions : 



Resolved, That in the decease of our fellow member, Augustus E. .Tessup, we 

 have lost an old, esteemed and valued associate, who, throuch a long and sue- 



I860.] 1 




2 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



cessfnl career liad not ceased to promote the objects, which, in early life, at- 

 tached him to the study of Natural History. 



Resolved, That while the members are sensible of the loss they have sus- 

 tained, they are not forgetful of the sorrows of his afflicted family, to whom 

 they offer their condolence. 



Whicli were adopted. 



Jamiart/ \Qtli. 

 Mr. Lea, President in the Chair. 



Forty-nine members present. 



Ti^e following papers were presented for publication : 



" Appendix to the pnpor entitled New Genera and Species of North 

 American Tipulidse with short palpi," by R. Osten Sacken. 



'' Contributions to American Lepidopterology, No. 3, "by Brackenridgc 

 Clemens, M. D. 



Mr. Lea having stated some facts in relation to the history of Anthra- 

 cite, Dr. Pickering mentioned that Mr. Shoemaker's first load of An- 

 thracite was taken to the factory of Mr. Samuel Wetherill, at the cor- 

 ner of 12th and Cherry streets, but in consequence of the impossibility 

 of burning it, it was buried. 



Permission being granted, the following resolutions were passed, in 

 relation to the application made this evening by Dr. Evans, for the co- 

 operation of the Academy, in his efforts to transport the meteorite now 

 lying near Port Orford, W. T. 



Resolved, That the Academy will cheerfully co-operate with Dr. 

 Evans in bis endeavors to rescue for science the meteorite of Washing- 

 ton Territory. 



Resolved, That a Committee of three be appointed to prepare a 

 memorial in such form a« may, in their opinion, conduce to the carrying 

 out of the views of Dr. Evans, a draft of the .same to be reported at the 

 next meeting. 



The death of Peter A. Browne, late a member of the Academy, at 

 Philadelphia, on the 9th instant, was announced. 



January VJth. 



Mr. Lea, President, in the Chair. 

 Forty-five members present. 



'The following papers were presented for publication : 

 " Additional new species of Fossils to a paper by T. A. Conrad." 

 " Notes on the nomenclature of North American Fi.shes," by Theo. 



Gill. 



*' On the pertinence of Alosa teres, Deltay, to the genus Dussumieza, 



Frr?.," by Theo. Gill. 

 Pursuant to the order of the last meeting the Committee to prepare 



a memorial in aid of Dr. Evans' attempts to procure the meteorite 



near Port Orford, W. T., reported and was discharged. 



[Jan. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 6 



January 24^7i. 



Vice President Bridges in the Chair. 



Forty members present. 



A paper entitled the Mexican Humming Birds, No. 1, by Rafael 

 Montes de Oca was presented for publication. 



Mr. Lea exliibited some specimens of Unionidce, and remarked that he had 

 often been asked as to the number of species which inhabited the United 

 States, a question he could not answer, as he had never made a separate cata- 

 logue of such species. Recently he had been requested by the Secretary of the 

 Smithsonian Institution to furnish a list for publication by that Institution, 

 which he had just finished and sent to Washington. In making the list he 

 had used the manuscript which he had prepared for a new and enlarged edi- 

 tion C4) of his " ^J/nopsi's, " From the list he had carefully eliminated the 

 synonyms, and there remained in it the extraordinarily large number of 

 five hundred and twenty species which have been described, inhabiting the 

 Rivera, Lakes and Pools of the United States and Territories, and he stated 

 that he had some 30 to 40 in his possession not yet named or described. 

 These 520 may be thus divided : — 



Unio, 441 species. 



Margaritana, 26 do. 



Anodonta, 53 do. 



520 

 New species in Mr. Lea's possession, but yet not described, 30 



550 

 Mr. Lea further remarked that it was very probable that at least 100 more 

 species would be added to this Ust, as inhabiting within the present limits of 

 the United States, as almost every naturalist, searching in unexplored waters, 

 was constantly discovering new forms. In reflecting on the profusion of tliis 

 kind of animal life in the United States, the naturalist is astonished at the 

 great number of forms characteristic of the various species, and he is the more 

 struck with the extent of it, when a comparison is made with the small num- 

 ber of species which inhabit the continent of Europe, there not being in the 

 fresh waters of that quarter of the globe more perhaps than ten species, viz : 

 seven Uniones, one Margaritana, one Monocondylosa , and one Anodonta. Mr. 

 Lea stated that he had taken great pains to procure specimens from all parts 

 of Europe, and he was satisfied that there were 98 synonyms made by Euro- 

 pean authors, for the single species of Anodonta cygnea, Draparnaud, the 

 Mytilus cygneus of Linnseus, and the synonymy is nearly as profusely erroneous, 

 in Unio pictorum, Unio tumidus, Unio Batav us and Unio littoralis. 



Mr. Slack remarked, in connection with the bones presented this evening, 

 that they were discovered some two weeks since by Mr. 0. C. Herbert, in his 

 marl pits, near Marlborough, Monmouth Co., N. J., at a depth of twenty-five 

 feet beneath the surface. Having received information of their discovery from 

 Mr. Hopper, of Freehold, on Monday week, Mr. S. visited the pits and pro- 

 cured the specimens from Mr. H. They consist of fragments of the femur 

 and fibula of the Mosasaurus, and are of great interest, the long bones of this 

 reptile having until recently been unknown. 



On motion of Mr. Slack, the thanks of the Academy were ordered 

 to be tendered to Messrs. J. M. Hopper and 0. C. Herbert, of Mon- 

 mouth Co., N. J., and also to Mr. Edward L. Perkins, for donations 

 presented by them. 

 I860.] 




4 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Jan. 31s^ 

 Mr. Lea, President, in the Chair. 



Forty-four members present. 



The report of the Biological Department for the present month was 

 rear]. 



On report of a Committee of the Biological Department, the paper en- 

 titled " Remarks on errors in the Anatomical Diagnosis of Cancer, by 

 J. J. Woodward, M. D.," was recommended for publication in a Medical 

 Journal. 



On report of the respective Committees the following papers were 

 ordered to be published in the Journal of the Academy : 



" Reflections upon the nature of the temporary star of the year 1572, 

 an application of the Nebular Hypothesis, by Alexander Wilcox, M. D." 



" Descriptions of New Cretaceous and Eocene Shells of Mississippi 

 and Alabama, also with notes on Eocene fossil shells, by T. A. Conrad. '^ 



*' Descriptions of new species of Fossils, probably Triassic, from Vir- 

 ginia, by W. M. Gabb." 



" Descriptions of new species of Cretaceous fossils, by W. M. Gabb." 



" Additional new specisi- of Fossils to a paper by T. A. Conrad." 



And the following in the Proceedings : 



Contributions to American Lepidopterology.— No. 3. 



BV BRACKENRIDQE CLEMENS, M. D. 



TiNEINA. 



The plan of these papers will hereafter be changed, and no diagnosis 

 of genera will be given, except when there is doubt respecting the identity of 

 the European and American groups, and when the genera are new. The in- 

 tention of giving some conception of the systematic arrangement of the group 

 Tineina will therefore be abandoned, and the subsequent papers be confined 

 simply to the description of species. I find myself compelled to adopt this 

 course, in consequence of perceiving, as I advance in the recognition of generic 

 groups, that the diagnoses of the families heretofore cited are too limited, and 

 that, in order to represent my conception of these groups, I shall be obliged 

 to make them more comprehensive. These changes, together with generic 

 synopses of the families, will be best treated in a monograph of the Tineina, 

 which will be undertaken as soon as the collection of the writer represents, 

 with some degree of completeness, the genera found in our country. In order 

 that the accomplishment of this may not be too long delayed, contributions of 

 specimens are respectfully solicited from collectors, either in accordance with 

 the call from the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, in the Report for 

 1858, or the request made at the present time. Contributions may be sent to 

 the Smithsonian Institution, or to myself, but, in the latter case, the charges 

 for carriage must be prepaid ; and should the contributor desire it, a suite of 

 named specimens will be returned to him. Full directions for the collection 

 and preservation of Lepidoptera are contained in the Smithsonian Report for 

 1858, and may be had on application to the Secretary of the Institution. 



CoLEOPUoRA Zeller. 

 Stalh of antenna clothed vnth erect scales to the middle, 

 C. coruscipennella . — Labial palpi and head bronzy green. Antenns, 



[Jan. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



basal kalf bronzy green, with a reddish violet reflection ; terminal half white, 

 annulated with brown. Fore wings uniform, bronzy green, with the apical 

 portion reddish violet, or of a reddish, coppery hue. Hind wings dark brown ; 

 cilia the same. 



Stalk somewhat thickened, with scales not erected. 



C. laticornella . — Labial palpi and head brownish ochreous. Anteunje 

 pale brownish ochreous towards the base, becoming white with an ochreous 

 tinge toward the tip, and annulated witli dark brown throughout. Fore wings 

 rather deep, uniform brown, with a whitish ochreous streak along the costa, 

 from the base to the costo-apical cilia, narrowing behind, and not reaching 

 beyond the subcostal nervure. Hind wings rather dark brown ; cilia the same. 



Antennal -"talk iimp'e; basal jo'nt thickened with scales. 



C. COS nosipennella . — Labial palpi and head white. Antennse white, 

 annulated with dark brown ; basal joint white. Fore wings dull yellow, with 

 a white streak along the basal portion of inner margin, one along the costa, 

 and one along the subcostal nervure, sejiarated from the former by a narrow 

 line of the general hue ; an oblique, white streak along the disk, and inclined 

 to the inner angle, and one in the fold, with three rather faint, oblique, white 

 streaks between the terminal portions of the costal and discal streaks. Hind 

 wings rather dark gray ; cilia fulvous. 



C. infuscatella . — Labial palpi brownish gray. Head pale leaden gray, 

 whitish on the sides and above the eyes. Antenna gray, annulated with dark 

 brown. Fore wings grayish brown, with a white streak along the costa to the 

 tip, and one along the inner margin ; a white streak along the fold, and one 

 parallel to it along the middle of the wing, and somewhat dilated on the inner 

 margin ; cilia grayish brown. Hind wings gray ; cilia the same. 



C. c ret at ico s tella. — Labial palpi white. Head white, tinged with 

 yellowish. Antennae white, annulated with brownish. Fore wings shining 

 yellow, with rather a broad white streak along the costa, extended nearly to 

 the tip ; somewhat streaked with ochreous, and the tip rather deep ochreous. The 

 inner margin of the wing is whitish. Hind wings ochreous brown ; cilia the 

 same. 



Incuevakia Haworth. 



I. russatella . — Head ochreous. Antennx dark brown, ochreous at the 

 base, and annulated with ochreous. Thorax purplish brown. Fore wings 

 deep fuscous, with a beautiful purple reflection. Near the base of the wing 

 is a very pale yellow band, broadest on the inner margin, and a costal and 

 dorsal spot of the same hue opposite each other, a little beyond the middle of 

 the wing. Hind wings pale fuscous tinged with purplish red ; cilia pale brown. 



The wing structure of the following species departs from that of the genus. 

 Both wings are pointed, the fore wings with a sinejle discal nervure, given ofi' 

 to the inner margin and the hind wings with two discal nervules branching 

 from a common stalk. 



L Acerif oliella. — Ornix Acerifoliella Fitch, Reports, 1 and 2, p. 269. 

 Head reddish ochreous. General hue a fine metallic green ; fore wings without 

 markings. I am indebted to the kindness of Dr. Fitch for a specimen of this 

 insect. 



Plutella Schrank. 



P. vigilaciella . — Head white, with fuscous befojre and behind the eyes. 

 Labial palpi white ; exterior of second joint fuscous. Antennse ochreous, an- 

 nulated with white, especially towards the tips. Thorax white ; teguls dark 

 I860.] 




6 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



fuscous. Fore wings white, streaked with ochreous, with a dark ochreous streak 

 at the base of the fold, margined on the inner side with dark brown. The 

 inner border, from near the base to the tip of the wing, is closely dotted with 

 dark brown ; and on the costa, toward the tip, are a few dots of the same hue, 

 and in the middle of the wing an elongated dark brown dot ; cilia white and 

 dark brown intermixed. Hind wings dark gray. Abdomen dark gray. 



P. limbipennel la. — Head pale ochreous. Labial palpi whitish : tuft dark 

 brown. Antenna brown, slightly annulated with white. Thorax yellowish 

 white ; teguL-e dark brown. Fore wings cinereous brown, dusted with dark 

 brown, with a dark brown sinuated streak along the fold, and the inner mar- 

 ginal portion of the wing pale yellowish white, with three rounded projections 

 toward the fold. Hind wings brown, with a purplish hue ; cilia brownish 

 ochreous. Abdomen dark brown. 



P. mollip edella . — Head and thorax pale brownish ochreous. Fore 

 wings pale brownish ochreous, somewhat paler along the costa, and dotted 

 with dark brown, with a fuscous, sinuated streak in the fold, narrowly edged 

 vj'ith ochreous fjrmj. The inner marginal portion of the wing pale brownish 

 ochreous, with three projections toward the fold, and the inner border dotted 

 with dark brown to the tip of the wing. Hind wings dark gray ; cilia brownish 

 ochreous. 



Gracilaeia Zeller. 



Gr. superbifrontella . — Labial palpi yellow, tipped with brownish. An- 

 tennae dull yellow, with very faint brownish rings. Head stramineous, 

 tinged with reddish violet on the forehead. Thorax stramineous, with tegulJB 

 externally striped with reddish violet. Fore wings beautiful reddish violet, 

 with a shining stramineous patch on the inner margin at the base, and a large 

 costal triangle of the same hue, reaching almost across the wing, and extending 

 along the costa from the basal third, nearly to the apex. Hind wings black- 

 ish gray ; cilia dark fuscous. 



This insect must approach very closely the European SwedereHa. 



The larva may be found, in the middle of July, in cones, on the leaves of 

 Hamamelis Virginica (Witch Hazel), and the imago appears early in 

 August. The head of the larva is pale greeu ; body pale green, darker 

 colored by the Ingesta, with the tenth ring whitish, and the cervical shield 

 pale brown. 



G. fulgidella . — Head and antennse yellowish white. Fore wings white, 

 with a silvery lustre, with a dark brown blotch near the base, not extended 

 across the wing. Rather beyond the middle of the wing is a broad, dark 

 brown band, with the exterior margin darkest, and sharply angidated just above 

 the inner margin. The apical portion of the wing contains two rather broad, 

 dark brown costal streaks, somewhat confluent in the middle of the wing, 

 with a white costal spot between them. The extreme apex of the wing is 

 dark brown, witli a white costal streak before it, and opposite the costal white 

 spot is another, at the interior angle, sometimes two not distinctly separated. 

 Hind wings dark fuscous ; cilia the same. 



G. venustella . — Labial palpi white, with a blackish spot near the mid- 

 dle, and one near the tip. Antennee dark brownish. Head silvery white. 

 Fore wings dark cinereous, with a purplish hue, and white along the inner mar- 

 gin from the base to the middle. At the basal third of the wing is a small, 

 white costal spot ; three oblique, equidistant, slender white bands, dark mar- 

 gined on both sides, th.Qjirst about the middle of the wing, the second and 

 third converging at the inner margin, with a white spot at the extreme apex, 

 dark -margined on both sides by short streaks ; cilia cinereous and white in- 

 termixed. Hind wings blackish gray ; cilia rather paler. 



[Jan. 




NATURAL SCIEN'CES OF PHILADELPHIA. 7 



G. strigifinitella . — Labial palpi yellowisli white, dotted with dark 

 brown, and with two-.dark brown rings before the tip. Head and antenu» 

 dull yello.v. Fore wings brownish gray suffused witli dark brown, with the 

 inner margin, from near the base to the middle, varied with white and dark 

 brown ; on the middle of costa a wliite streak, and a few small, costal, dark 

 brown blotches. Near tlie tip, on the inner margin, a slender, veiy oblique 

 white streak, dark margined on both sides, which crosses an oblique streak of 

 the same hue from the costa, likewise darlc-margined on both sides above the 

 streak from the inner margin, and curved beneath, forming a wliite hinder- 

 marginal line in the cilia, beneath the tip, and extending nearly to the apex 

 of the wing. Beyond these, toward the base, in the apical third of the wing, 

 are two oblique, dark brown costal streaks, witli a short, white one between 

 them, the first irregular and somewhat diffused, the second margined behind 

 with brownish yellow. Apical portion of the wing dark brown. Hind wings 

 dark brown ; cilia somewhat paler. 



G violacella . — Head and face pale yellowish, tinged with reddish 

 violet. Labial palpi yellowish white, annulated at the tip with brownish. 

 Fore wings with the external half pale, shining, cream yellow, interior half 

 suflFused with a pale violet iridescence. About the middle of the costa are a 

 iew separated blackish brown dots, and in the middle of tlie wing a blackisli 

 brown comma spot, and near the tip an atom of the same hue. The posterior 

 part of the fold somewhat suffused with fuscous ; cilia reddish fuscous. Hind 

 wings dark gray, with a reddish tinge ; cilia reddish fuscous. 



Akgykesthia Hiibner. 



A. crease 11 a. — Labial palpi silvery white. Head silvery white; fore- 

 head and face faintly tinged with pale golden brown. Antennae silvery, annu- 

 lated with dark brown. Fore wings silvery white, witli a pale golden brown 

 streak at the base of the costa. About the middle of the wing is an oblique, 

 dark golden brown band, broadest on the inner margin, and tapering to the 

 costa, beyond which is a narrower, oblique band of the same hue produced in 

 the middle, as a rather broad, somewhat curved streak toward the tip, behind 

 which it is arrested ; cilia pale golden brown, with a darker hinder-marginal 

 line ; hind wings dark gra}' ; cilia the same. 



Another specimen, on the middle of the inner margin, has a rectangular, 

 golden brown patch, not extended to the costa, with an irregular, obliquely 

 placed patch of the same hue on the inner margin, near the tip, and slightly 

 connected with a small costal patch placed midway between the patches, on 

 the inner margin. The tip of the wing is golden brown, and is scarcely con- 

 nected with the second patch by a posteriorly produced portion. 



Taken on wing, June, July. 



Oexix Zeller. 



0. trepidella . — Labial palpi yellowish white, annulated with dark brown 

 near the tip. Head dark brown. Antennae dark brown, slightly annulated 

 withwhitisli. Fore wings dark purplish, dusted witli dark brown. Along the 

 costa are several short, oblique, obscure yellowish streaks, witli dark brown 

 streaks between, extending from the middle of the wing to the tip, obliquely 

 placed till near the apex. Hind wings dark gray ; cilia the same. 



0. f es t inel la . — Labial palpi silvery gray, with the second joint at the 

 apex annulated with dark brownish. Head dull brownish gray. Antennse 

 dark brown, annulated with whitish. Fore wings grayish, somewhat suffused 

 with brownish from the base to the middle, with the costa at base dark 

 brown. From the middle to the tip freely dusted with dark brown, with 

 several whitish, rather obscure costal streaks, becoming plainer near the tip, 

 and two or three on the inner margin, near the tip. At the tip are a few dark 



I860.] 




O PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



browu scales, with the cilia of extreme apex white ; cilia grayish, with dark 

 brown tipped scales intermixed. Hind wings pale gray ;* cilia similar. Ab- 

 domen blackish, tipped with yellowish ochreous. 



0. Cratffigif oliella. — Labial palpi whitish. Head dark brown and 

 gray intermixed. Antennae dark brown, faintly annulated with whitish. 

 Fore wings dark brown, with a purplish hue. Along the inner margin, from 

 the base to the anal angle, whitish, dusted with dark brownish. In the fold 

 at the base is a dark brown streak, and a small blotch of the same hue be- 

 yond the middle, nearly reaching to the inner margin. Toward the tip are a 

 few whitish, costal streaks, and at the apex a small, round, dark brown spot, 

 in a whitish patch, with a circular, dark brown apical line behind it ; cilia 

 blackish gray. Hind wiugs blackish gray ; cilia rather paler. Abdomen 

 blackish, tipped with dull yellow. 



The larva mines the leaves of Crataegus tomentosa (Black Thorn), in 

 September, and becomes a pupa early in October, weaving a reddish brown 

 cocoon in a turned down edge of the leaf. The pupa case is thrust from the 

 end oF the cocoon at maturity, the imago appearing early in May. There is, 

 doubtless, a summer brood, but I have not sought for it. The head of the 

 larva is brown ; the body greenish white, with the dorsum reddish brown. 



Htponomeuta Zeller. 



H. multipunc t ella . — Labial palpi, head, antennae and thorax, white. 

 Thorax with a black spot on the fi-ont of tegulae, and a few spots of the same 

 hue on the disk. Fore wings white, with the costa at the base blackish, and 

 longitudinal rows of distinct black dots ; two of which, one along the inner 

 margin and one along the fold, are very plain. Hind wings blackish gray. 



Bedellia ? Stainton. 



This genus is represented by a single species, in Europe. It was, therefore, 

 a surprise to myself, when I found the species described below, corresponded 

 to the European not only in structure but in ornamentation. There is, how- 

 ever, a slight difference in the neuration of the posterior wings of the two in- 

 sects when compared with Mr. Staintou's delineation, and hence I give a full 

 generic diagnosis of the American species. 



The anterior wings are narrow and pointed, and the posterior very narrow, 

 almost setiform. The discoidal cell of the anterior is acute behind, with three 

 subcosto-marginal nervules, the last of which arises at the apex of the cell, 

 together with the apical nervule, which sends off, at about its middle, a ner- 

 vulet to the inner margin, and is furcate near the tip of the wing. The median 

 nervure sends only a single branch to the inner margin. Both the costal and 

 sub-median nervures are short. The posterior wings without discoidal cell ; 

 the costal nervure is very short ; the sub-costal runs through the middle of 

 the wing, and sends a branch to the inner margin, rather beyond the middle, 

 and is furcate at its extremity, the lower branch proceeding to the tip, along 

 the inner margin. Above the subcostal nervure is a rather indistinct, paral- 

 lel fold. The median nervure is long, weU marked, and simple ; placed near 

 the inner margin of the wing. 



Head rough above, and in front, between the antennre, almost tufted ; face 

 smooth, moderately broad, and rounded. Ocelli none. Eyes moderately 

 prominent, round, and i)artially covered with hairs from above. Antennae as 

 long as the anterior wings, filiform, simple ; basal joint squamose. No max- 

 illary palpi. Labial palpi very short, pointed, and rather porrected, with two 

 joints only distinguishable. Tongue naked and short. 



B. ? Staintoniella . — Labial palpi and head ochreous, the latter some- 

 what reddish oclireous above. Antennae ochreous. Fore wings ochreous, 

 dusted with dark fuscous, but leaving a streak of the general hue along the 



[Jan. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 9 



inner margin. Hind wings dark gray ; cilia rather dark ochreous. Abdomen 

 dark brown and ochreous mixed. 



COSMIOTES. 



Fore wings ratber narrowly ovate-lanceolate, with the discoidal cell closed 

 acutely. The sub-costal uervure is attenuated toward base of the wing, and 

 subdivides into three marginal branches, the first of which arises at about 

 its middle, and sends from the angle of the disk a trifid branch, which is 

 either forked on the costa by an exceeding short branch before the tip, and 

 gives rise at about its middle to a branch to the inner margin, or is trifid at 

 its extreme tip. The median is two or three-branched near its end. The 

 sub-median is simple. Hind wings are without a discoidal cell ; and the 

 costal nervure is moderately long. The sub-costal runs through the mid- 

 dle of the wing, (is central), and is furcate near the tip. The median is 

 well indicated, with two or three short, approximated branches about the mid- 

 dle of the inner margin. 



Size very small. Head smooth. Without ocelli. Forehead rather elevated 

 and rounded ; face rounded, and nearly equally broad. Eyes very small, 

 oval, and somewhat sunken, scarcely visible in front. Labial palpi mode- 

 rately long and slender, smooth, pointed, and somewhat reciirved ; the second 

 joint slightly compressed laterally. No maxillary palpi. Antennae inserted 

 laterally ; basal joint short and rather thick, with a few cilia at the base be- 

 fore ; stalk simple, slender, and scarcely as long as the body. Tongue naked, 

 and about as long as the labial palpi. 



§ Median vein of hind wings two-branched. Apical vein trijid at the tip. 



C. illectella. — Labial palpi and head yellowish brown. Antennae fus- 

 cous. Fore wings fuscous, dusted with dark brown, with a broad, transverse 

 silvery white band near the middle of the wing, a spot of the same hue on 

 the costa near the tip, and an opposite one on the inner margin, nearly join- 

 ing it in the middle of the wing. The extreme apex of the wing has a silvery 

 streak in the cilia, margined behind with a row of dark brown atoms on their 

 ends. Hind wings grayish fuscous ; cilia the same. 



§§ Median vein of hind icing three-branched. Apical vein forked on the costa, 

 with a nervulet to the inner margin. 



C. maculosce 11 a. — Labial palpi dull yellowish. Head dark brownish. 

 Antennae fuscous. Fore wings shining silvery grayish, suffused with dark 

 golden brown, with a rather obscure silvery band in the middle of the wing 

 and a silvery spot on the costa just before the tip. The extreme apical por- 

 tion of the wing is blackish brown ; cilia grayish brown. Hind wings grayish, 

 dusted with dark brown ; cilia grayish brown. 



§§ Medio-posterior and central veins opposite the space betiveen the second and 

 third sub-costo marginals. 



C. madarella . — Head dark silvery gray. Antennae dark brown, yellow- 

 ish white at the tips. Fore wings dark golden brown, silvery gray at the 

 base, with an oblique, pale golden band near the middle of the wing, the 

 costal portion being nearest the base. On the costa, near the tip, is a pale 

 golden spot, with a .spot of the same hue opposite on the inner margin, and 

 one in the middle of the wing before the tip ; cilia pale brown, dotted with 

 dark brown. Hind wings grayish brown ; cilia rather darker. 



CosMOPTERYX ? Hijbner. 



The anterior wings are rather narrow, and slenderly caudate. The discoidal 

 cell is elongate and very narrow, and closed acutely behind with three sub- 

 costo-marginal nervules, the first arising about the middle of the wing. The 

 median sends/owr nervules to the inner margin, the first arising midway be- 



1860.] 




10 rROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



tween the first and second subcostal branches, and the last from the apex of 

 the discoidal cell, together with an apical branch, which almost immediately 

 sends off a nervulet to the inner margin, whilst the apical proceeds through 

 the middle of the slender, acicular caudate extremity to its tip. At the basal 

 third of the wing, the sub-costal nervure becomes attenuated. The costal is 

 nearly coincident with the margin ; the sub-median furcate at the base. The 

 posterior wings are narrow, almost setiform, and without a discoidal cell. 

 The sub-median is central, simple, and faintly indicated until near the tip, 

 when it becomes furcate. The median, which is better defined, runs near the 

 inner margin, and subdivides into three branches to the inner margin. The 

 costal is coincident with the marginal. 



Head perfectly smooth, advanced, long, and flattened above ; forehead very 

 convex and globose ; face full, rounded, and somewhat retreating. Ocelli 

 none. Eyes flattened, scarcely visible in front, oval. Antenna nearly as 

 long as the anterior wings ; basal joint long, slender, and clavate ; stalk seta- 

 ceous and simple. Maxillary palpi extremely short, scarcely perceptible. Labial 

 palpi very long, slender, much recurved, and pointed ; the second joint some- 

 what compressed toward the end, shorter than the third. Tongue scaled, as 

 long as the thorax beneath. 



C. ?gemmiferella . — Labial palpi dark greenish brown, with a silvery 

 stripe on the front of the third joint, and another behind, continued to the 

 second joint. Face, head, and thorax, dark greenish brown, with a narrow, 

 central, silvery line continued to the thorax, and one of the same hue above 

 the eyes on each side. Antennre dark greenish brown, with two silvery lines 

 on the basal joint, the stalk annulated with silvery, and a broad, silvery ring 

 before the tip, which is likewise silvery. Fore wings dark greenish brown to 

 the middle, and from the apical third to the tip, with an orange-colored patch 

 rather beyond the middle of the wing, extended across the wing, and a little 

 produced along the costa behind, having a large, transverse, oval, smooth 

 patch of elevated, silvery scales somewhat violet-hued, on its internal margin 

 the patch extending nearly across the wing ; another smaller and similar, 

 nearly round one behind it, on the inner margin, and another small one on 

 the costa, behind the produced portion, with a white costal streak above it in 

 the cilia. All these patches are somewhat black-margined. Near the base of 

 the wing are three short, silvery streaks, one nearly on the disk, one near the 

 fold beneath it, and an obliqae one above it, near the costa. The cilia of the 

 extreme apex is silvery white, black-margined above, with a violet silvery 

 scale in the middle of the wing, before the tip. The inner margin, at the base 

 of the wing, is silvery. Hind wings dark brown ; cilia somewhat paler. 



The ornamentation of this insect is very elegant. Taken on wing in .June, 

 July. 



ECDAKCIA. 



Head and face rough. Without ocelli. Eyes small, hemispherical quite 

 prominent, with a naked space above ? Labial palpi short, rather smooth, 

 and separated ; the third joint somewhat less thick than the second, and 

 nearly as long. Maxillary palpi long, folded, and five or six-jointed. An- 

 tennae, basal joint moderately long, approximated on the front, simple, and 

 full as long as the anterior wings. Tongue naked and very short, scarcely as 

 long as the labial palpi, and not reaching beyond the front. 



Fore wings with the subcostal nervure attenuated at the base ; at the basal 

 third arises a long marginal branch, and about its middle a furcate branch, 

 and thence the subcostal is faintly indicated to the discal nervure, beyond 

 which it reappears as a furcate branch to the costa behind the tip. The dis- 

 coidal cell is closed, and sends a single branch to the inner margin behind 

 the tip. The median subdivides into three approximate branches. The sub- 

 median is furcate at the base. In the hind wing the costal nervure is 



[Jan. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 11 



rather long aud distinct ; subcostal simple, and obsolete from the middle to 

 the base ; discoidal cell unclosed, with au independent discal nervule, faintly 

 indicated from the base, and furcate at the apical third. The median strongly 

 indicated and bifid rather beyond the middle of the inner margin. 



E. s imn latricella . — Head brovrnish ochreons. Antennae ochreous, 

 annulatod with dark brown. Fore wings dark brownish, with a white band 

 about the basal third of the wing, a white spot on the costa, near the middle, 

 and one on the inner margin, a little behind it, and a white transverse streak 

 near the tip. Hind wings dark brown ; cilia the same. 



This insect has considerable resemblance to an Incurvaria. Its neuration, 

 however, places it in a very distinct group. 



AxTisriLA Herrich-Schaffer, Frey. 



A. Ny s £ef o 1 i ella. — Head above dark brown. Face, labial palpi, and 

 fore feet shining yellowish ochreoxis. Antennae dark brown ; basal joint yellowish 

 ochreous. Fore wings dark brown, with a greenish reflection, and the base 

 with a bright coppery hue. Near the base is a rather broad, bright golden 

 band, broadest on the inner margin, where it is nearest the base, and con- 

 stricted at the fold of the uing ; a spot of the same hue on the costa, at the 

 apical third of the wing, and one on the inner margin, midway between this 

 and the band ; cilia somewhat coppery, and rather grayish at the inner angle. 

 Hind wings purple brown ; cilia grayish ochreous. 



The larva mines the leaves of Nysa multiflora in September. The head 

 is dark brown ; first segment dark brownish ; body very pale green with dark 

 atoms along the dorsum ; ventral surface with a line of two black spots. After 

 the last molting the first segment is black, and the dorsal spots become a 

 black, vascular line. When full fed, the larva weaves an oval cocoon within 

 the mine, and cutting the two skins of the leaf into a correspondent form, 

 permits it to fall to the ground. There is thus left an oval hole in the de- 

 serted mine. The images appear during the following May. 



A. CO mi f oliella. — Head, face, labial palpi, and fore feet dark broion. 

 Antennae dark brown ; basal joint somewhat ochreous. Fore wings rather 

 dull dark brown, with a coppery hue. Near the base is a rather narrow, 

 golden band, not constricted on the fold, and rather indistinct toward the costa, 

 where it is somewhat sufiused with a coppery hue, and nearest the base on the 

 inner margin. At the apical third of the wing is a small golden spot, and 

 nearly opposite, on the inner margin, another of the same hue, with the 

 hinder portion of the wing tinged with a bright reddish coppery hue ; cilia 

 dark grayish. Hind wings purplish brown ; cilia somewhat paler, with a cop- 

 pery Jiue. 



The larva mines the leaves of Cornus f 1 o r i d a, in September. It may pos- 

 sibly be a variation of Nysaefoliella. The larvae of the insects are very 

 like each other, but I don't know whether that ofCornifoliella undergoes 

 the same change of coloration after the last molting as that of Nysaefoli- 

 ella. The head and shield dark brown ; body nearly white, with seven 

 minute, black points along the dorsum, and eight on the ventral surface, 

 somewhat larger, and more distinct. Its mode of preparing for pupation is 

 the same as the previous species, but whilst the individuals of Ny s ae f oli- 

 ella on a single tree are almost inniimerable, those ofCornifoliella are 

 not abundant, 



ASPIDISCA. 



Fore wings with no discoidal cell. The subcostal nervure traverses the 

 middle of the wing, attenuated from the base to the basal third, where it gives 

 origin to a long, marginal branch, which reaches the costa at the apical third 

 of the wing ; near the tip it subdivides into three short branches, one of which 

 is delivered to the costa behind the tip, one to the tip, without attaining the 



I860.] 




12 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



extreme apex, and one to the inner margin, somewhat behind the second 

 marginal branch. The median nervure is wanting. The sub-mediau simple. 

 Hind wings with no discoidal cell. The subcostal nervure is central and 

 attenuated towards the base, and at about its apical third delivers a 

 branch to the inner margin, and is bifid behind the tip of the wing. The 

 median is simple. The submedian obsolete or wanting. 



Size extremely small. Head and face smooth, covered with closely ap- 

 pressed scales. Face rather broad, and somewhat produced beneath into a 

 point. Forehead rounded. Ocelli none. Eyes extremely small, not visible 

 from above, and scarcely visible in front. Antennae held extended at the 

 sides, very short, scarcely one-half as long as the anterior wings, ratlier thick, 

 obtuse, and roughened with scales. Maxillary palpi none. Labial palpi 

 none. Tongue none. 



A. splendori f er ella. — Head golden. Antennae fuscous, tinged with 

 golden. Fore wings, from the base to the middle, leaden gray, with a splen- 

 dent lustre, and from the middle to the tip golden, with a broad, nearly 

 straight, metallic, silvery streak, extending from the costa near the tip to 

 the middle of the wing, and dark-margined on both sides. This is nearly 

 joined by a dorsal streak of the same hue, almost opposite to it, with con- 

 verging dark margins, and with a blotch of dark brown scales adjoining it be- 

 hind. In the costo-apical cilia is a short, blackish brown streak, parallel to 

 the dark mai'gin of the silvery costal streak. 



At the tip is a black, apical spot, with metallic, silvery scales in its centre, 

 and a few silvery scales in the cilia above and beneath it. A blackish brown 

 hinder marginal line in the cilia, interrupted by a silvery streak in the cilia 

 beneath the apical spot, and the cilia yellowish brown. Hind wings leaden 

 gray ; cilia j^ellowish brown. 



The larva mines the leaves of Crataegus tomentosa early in September. 

 The mine appears at first as a very narrow line, and is subsequently expanded 

 into a small, transparent blotch. At maturity, the larva weaves a cocoon 

 between the cuticles, and cuts a small oval disk. This is sometimes carried 

 quite a distance, and is ultimately secured to some object by one of its ends 

 tied down on a little button of white silk. It enters the pupa state toward 

 the latter part of September, and appears as an imago early in spring. 



The mature larva has a head much smaller than the first ring, rounded 

 above, and elliptical. The body is flattened, and tapers posteriorly from the 

 anterior rings. The segments are rather deeply incised, the thoracic ob- 

 tusely rounded at the sides, and the rest with a minute lateral nodule or 

 mammilla. It is without legs or prologs, but on the second and third thoracic 

 rings, on both the dorsal and ventral surfaces, are spots or cup-like depres- 

 sions, one on each side, capable of being contracted and expanded. So, like- 

 wise, from the sixth to the ninth inclusive, on the ventral surface are 

 transversely placed oval spots, similar to the thoracic, and one on each seg- 

 ment. On the segment next the last is a protuberance, both dorsal and ven- 

 tral, with two cup-like depressions on each surface. These are not supplied 

 with hooks, and if they are substitutes for feet, must act like suckers. They 

 are all pale brown. The head is dark brown ; the body brown, with blackish 

 along the dorsal and ventral surfaces. 



When the larvae are young, it is extremely difficult to discover their mines, 

 and the transparent blotch is not much larger than the cocoon, leaving a space 

 in which the " frass " is collected. 



DiACHORISIA. 



Fore wings pointed, narrowly ovate- lanceolate ; discoidal cell closed behind 

 by a very faintly indicated nervure, with a faintly indicated secondary cell. 

 The subcostal nervure obscurely indicated from the secondary cell to the base 

 of the wing, with a long and distinct marginal nervule from near the base, 



[Jan. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA, 13 



one from the middle of the secondary cell, and three from the end of it to the 

 costa. Three nervules from the discal nervure to the inner margin, beneath 

 the tip. The median without branches ; beyond the discal, it proceeds to the 

 inner margin, aa a single short vein ; perhaps it may be bifid. The submedian 

 is simple. Hind wings lanceolate, clothed with scales, with the discoidal 

 cell closed by a very faintly indicated nervure. The costal nervure is long, 

 and extends nearly to the tip of the wing. The subcostal is simple, and 

 wanting from near the origin of the discal nervure, where it is slightly pro- 

 duced inwardly, but well indicated thence to near the tip. The discal ner- 

 vure gives rise to a discal branch which quickly becomes bifid, and its 

 branches well defined near to the tip, above and beneath. The median is 

 well indicated, and is three-branched, the last very faintly connected with 

 the second. No submedian nervure. 



Size very small. Head rough and hairy above and in front. Ocelli none. 

 Eyes rather large, round, and salient, not set on a naked circular portion of 

 the head, nor with a naked space above the eyes. Antennse about one-half 

 as long as the anterior wings, inserted laterally, and microscopically pubes- 

 cent beneath ; basal joint moderately long, stalk roughened with scales. 

 Maxillary palpi rather long and folded. Labial palpi moderate, slender, 

 smooth, cylindrical, separated, and somewhat drooping ; the third joint nearly 

 as long as the second, which has a few bristles at its end and beneath. 

 Tongue ?. 



D. velatella . — Labial palpi dark brownish. Head brownish gray. An- 

 tennse grayish fuscous, with the basal joint whitish, having a blackish, ex- 

 ternal streak. Fore wings whitish, dusted with dark fuscous, with a few 

 dark fuscous spots along the costa, and one of the same hue about the 

 middle of the disk, beneath which, on the fold, is another of the same hue. 

 Toward the apex, in the middle of the wing, beneath the last costal spot, is a 

 small, dark fuscous spot, sometimes connected toward the base of the wing 

 with a dusted streak of the same hue ; cilia whitish, somewhat dotted with 

 dark fuscous. Hind wings grayish brown ; cilia the same. 



The relationship of this insect tolncurvaria and its allied genera, espe- 

 cially to Acerifoliella and toEudarcia, is very obvious. 



Bdccclatkix? Hiibner. 



The anterior wings lanceolate ; the discal cell is closed acutely behind, with 

 the subcostal nervure faintly indicated from the middle of the wing to the base, 

 and sending /o?<r nervules to the costa, the first about the basal third, and its 

 origin from the subcostal faintly indicated ; the three others arising near the 

 apical portion of the wing, with the subcostal between the second and last rather 

 faintly indicated ; the third nervule scarcely noticeable, and the last branch 

 arising from the apex of the discoidal cell. The median is strongly indicated 

 throughout, and sends off to the inner margin at its posterior end, a very 

 faintly indicated branch, whilst t"he apical branch, which appears to be a con- 

 tinuation of it, becomes bifid behind the tip of the wing. The posterior are 

 narrowly lanceolate, without discoidal cell. The subcostal nervure is central, 

 and subdivides beyond the middle of the wing into three branches, two to the 

 inner margin, and one along the exterior margin to the tip. The median ner- 

 vure is simple. 



Size extremely small. Head rough, tufted in the middle. Face smooth and 

 retreating. Eyes salient, visible in front. Antennee with a spreading, basal 

 eye-cap, expanded above the eyes ; stalk very slender, simple, scarcely more 

 than one-half so long as the body. No labial or maxillary palpi. Tongue 

 naked, very short, not one-half as long as the anterior coxse. 



B. ? coronate 11 a. — Face yellowish-white. The head with the tuft pale 

 orange chrome ; the eye-caps pale yellow, touched behind with orange chrome. 

 Antennrc yellow, dotted above with dark brown. Fore wings pale orange 

 I860.] 




14 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



chrome, with a -whitish patch near the base above the fold, one nearly oppo- 

 site, on the inner margin, and one about the middle of the wing, on the costa- 

 Near the tip of the wing is a rather indistinct, narrow, whitish band, becoming 

 somewhat diffuse on the inner margin, about the middle of the cilia ; extreme 

 apex of the wing whitish, mixed with scales of the general hue: cilia grayish 

 fulvous. Hind wings dark gray; cilia fulvous gray. Abdomen pale orange 

 chrome, with a dark brownish stripe along the dorsum, varied with fulvous. 



PYRALIDINA. Fam. HERMINID.E. 

 Epipaschia. 



Anterior wings with two approximated, subcosto-marglnal nervules arising 

 near the end of the disk, with a short nervulet to the costa, from near the tip 

 of the subcosto-apical nervule ; the origin of the post apical is midway between 

 the discal and marginal nervulet; the subcosto-inferior and discal have coinci- 

 dent origins. The discal is nearly circularly curved, and is continued to the 

 disco-central nervule which anastomoses by contact with the medio-superior. 

 Median three-branched. Submedian furcate at the base. In the posterior 

 wings the discal nervure is long, with a sweeping curve, and, as in the anterior 

 wings, is continued to the disco-central nervule, anastomosing by contact with 

 the medio-superior.' 



Head with ocelli. Eyes round, rather large and salient. Maxillary palpi 

 short, scaly and porrected. Labial palpi smooth, recurved, but not exceeding 

 the vertex, cylindrical and pointed; third joint rather short, and indistinctly 

 marked. Tongue scaled at the base, and nearly as long as the thorax beneath. 

 Antennae with an articulated appendage arising from the hasal joint, thrown back- 

 wards, and as long as the thorax, arid clothed icilh scales and spreading hairs at its 

 tip; the stalk is exterior to it, slender, its joints roughened with scales, and 

 finely ciliated beneath. 



E. super a talis. — Head yellowish. Labial palpi yellowish, dusted with 

 dark ochreous, with a dark brown spot at the base of the third joint. An- 

 tennte brownish, annulated with yellow , the antennal appendage yellow, dusted 

 with blackish brown, especially exteriorly. Fore wings pale yellowish, dusted 

 with dark brownish to an irregular dark brown line, crossing the nervules from 

 the costa to the inner margin, beyond which it is dull reddish brown. AbouJ 

 the middle of the costa is a blackish brown spot, a small one of the same hue 

 on the discal nervure; a minute one at the base, and the base of the fold, with 

 the inner margin at the base tinted with reddish brown. On the posterior 

 margin of the wing is a line of dark brown dots. Hind wings fuscous, with a 

 dark brown round spot near the exterior margin of the base, and a brownish 

 marginal line, with one of the same hue in the cilia. 



From Edward Norton, of Farmington, Conn. 



SPHINGINA. Fam. ^GERIID^. 



Trochilium Scopoli. 



I regard this genus as synonymous with the ^geria of Dr. Harris; it in- 

 cludes, likewise, the group he has characterized by this name. 



Both wings transparent. Antenna little thickened at the tips. Abdomen sessile, 

 tufted at the tip. Jlind tarsi very slender and smooth, as lo?ig as the tibia;. 



T. A cerni . — Head and labial palpi deep reddish orange, the former white 

 in front of the eyes. Antennas bluish black, the basal joint reddish orange in 

 front. Thorax ochreous jellow, with the tegular in front touched with pale 

 bluish black. Abdomen bluish black, varied with ochreous yellow; terminal 

 tuft deep reddish orange. Fore wings with the margins and median nervure 

 bluish black, dusted with yellowish ; a large discal, bluish black patch ; termi- 



[Jan. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PniLADELPIIIA. 15 



nal portion of the wing ochreous yellow, with a blackish, subterminal band, 

 and the nervules blackish ; the hinder margin bluish black, and the cilia deep 

 fuscous. Hind wings with a black discal patch ; nervules blackish, and hinder 

 margin blackish. Under surface of the body ochreous yellow, with a bluish 

 black patcb on each side of the second abdominal segment. The middle and 

 posterior tibiaj annulated with bluish black at their ends, the anterior blackish, 

 with the coxce touched with reddish orange. All the tarsi touched with 

 blackish above. The larva bores the trunk of the maple. 



Note. — In the November number, 1859, the following corrections should be 

 made : 



In the first line of the note on p. 311 , preceding should read succeeding. 

 In Divsion II., of the Table of species, on p. 318, an should read no. 

 On page 327, for vitcgcnclla read vitigenella. 



Appendix to the paper entitled New Genera and Species of North American 

 Tipulidse with short palpi, &c. 



BY R. OSTEN SACKEN. 



The following are some additions and corrections to my paper, suggested by 

 the examination of the entomological collections of the British Museum, the 

 Jardin des Plautes, and the Museum of the University of Berlin, as well as of 

 some private collections. 



The British Museum afforded me the desired information about the Lim- 

 nobiae described by Mr. Walker in his "List of Specimens, etc." 



L. simulans Walk, is my Dicranomyia defuncta. Mr. Walker, (1. c. 

 p. 45) describes this species as '^pale yelloiv, legs yellow, tips of the thighs, of the 

 ukanks, and of the feel, black,'' ^ etc.; whereas, in reality, the body w cinereous, the 

 legs are dark brotvn, almost black, with a whitish ring before the tip of the femora, 

 etc. Mr. Walker's description was drawn from a single old and faded speci- 

 men ; no wonder, therefore, that it could not be identified. 



L. badia Walk, seems to be my Dicranomyia humidicola. The only 

 specimen in the British Museum is without legs. The characteristic mark of 

 the species, the while ring at the tip of the tibice, was therefore not mentioned in 

 the description. (Walker, 1. c. p. 46.) 



Anisomera longicornis Walk, appears to be the species which I have 

 identified for it. 



Not having seen Mr. Saunders's collection, I have not been able to identify 

 the Limnobiae ignobilis, prominens, biterrainata, and t u r p i s de- 

 scribed by Mr. Walker in the Diplera Saundersiana. 



In the Museum of Berlin I have found a considerable number of undeter- 

 mined L i m n o b i CE and Eriopterae from Georgia, most of which I have been 

 able to identify with the species described in my paper. Only a few were new 

 to me. I will give here a list of these species, as an addition to the knowledge 

 of their geographical distribution. Some observations and corrections to my 

 descriptions, especially when they were drawn from a limited number of speci- 

 mens, may also find llieir j)lace here. 



Limnophila adusta in two (rj* 9) specimens. The brown line in the middle 

 of the thorax was hardly apparent. The tips of the femora were distinctly in- 

 fuscated. 



Limnophila imbecilla(?) A single (^ specimen, which had the neura- 

 tion of the wings, the long vercicils, etc.. of said species, but the coloring of the 

 body of which was somewhat different, namely, brownish ferruginous, shining on 



I860.] 




16 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



the thorax. This coloring may have been merely accidental, and produced per- 

 haps after the death of the specimen. 



Limnophila pavonina, a single (^ specimen, slightly dififerent from the 

 specimen from which my description was drawn. The first joint of the antennae 

 is cinereous, the second brown, the following are orange. The tip of the an- 

 tenna is brownish. The abdomen shows a brown stripe along the middle of the 

 tergum and indications of such stripes along the lateral margins. The brown 

 spots on the wings are more confluent than in my specimen, so that the outlines 

 of the ocelli and ocelliform marks are less distinct than is mentioned in my 

 description. 



Limnophila tenuip es Say. Limnophila k. sp. (onespecimen.) Ama- 

 lopis inconstans. Teucholabis complex a. Teucholabis n. sjs. (with a 

 ferrugineous, shining thorax.) Geranomyia communis. Gnophomyia t.' i s - 

 tissima. Gnophomyia lugubris. Dicranoptycha s o b r i na. Ticra- 

 noptycha sororcula. Erioptera v e a u s t a . E r i o c e r a n. sp. (? very like 

 the cinereous specimens menlioutd at the end of my description of Eriocera 

 full gin osa.) 



Nov. gen. et sp. (?) of my group of Tipulae anisomeraeformes, and very 

 like Eriocera, but distinguished by the presence of a petiolated areolet 

 and the antenuEe, which are a little longer, especially those of the (J\ The 

 species is easily distinguished by the color of the tarsi, which are white, except 

 at the base. 



In the same museum I saw Gonomyia blanda and Limnophila lutei- 

 p e n n n i s , from South Carolina ; Rhipidia domestica, from Brazil, (!) and 

 Rhamphidia brevirostris, from South Carolina. The latter had the tho- 

 rax a little darker, and the three stripes on it more distinctly marked than in 

 my specimens ; nevertheless, I hardly doubt of their identity. 



I succeeded besides by examining the dipterological collections in Europe, in 

 ascertaining, as I had hoped, the occurrence, in other parts of the world than 

 in North America, of some of the new genera adopted in my paper. 



Gnophomyia occurs in Brazil and in Europe. I saw two elegant species 

 of this genus (Gnophomyia n i gr i n a Wied., and 7i. sp. ?) in the Berlin Museum, 

 and a European species (taken near Berlin) in a private collection. 



D ic ran o ptyc h a is also European. The Limnobia ci n e r as ce n s il/ea'^., 

 (syn. L. rufescens Schiim.'!') belongs to this genus, as I ascertained in Mr. 

 Loew's collection. 



Antocha is also found in Europe ; a species very like my A. opalizans 

 occurs there. (Mr. Loew's collection.) 



Dactylolabis the L. d i la tata 7/oew from Croatia, (described in his 

 Neue Beitriige, 4te3 Heft,) belongs to this subgenus. The remarkable dilata- 

 tion of the anterior margin of the wing, in the stigmatical region, which is 

 peculiar to this species, is hardly perceptible in my D. montana; still it 

 exists, although in a rudimental state; besides this, the structure of the (^ 

 forceps, (as far as could be ascertained from dry specimens,) that of the at- 

 tennffi, and the situation of the spots on the wings, coincide in both species. 



Epiphragma. A Brazilian species of this subgenus, very like my E. 

 solatrix, is in the Berlin Museum; another, from Venezuela, is in Mr. 

 Loew's collection. 



Teucholabis. Two species from Brazil in the Berlin Museum ; one of 

 them is exceedingly like T. complexa. 



A further object which I had, in examining the collections in Europe, was 

 to ascertain the possible identity of some of the American species, which I had 

 described as new, with European ones. The general result of my observations 

 is, that allhouyh cases of apparent analogy are not unfrequcnt, those of real identity 

 seem to be much rarer. My L. tristigma is very distinct from L. tripunctata 



[Jan. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 17 



Meig. The position of the clouds round the stigma is quite diflferent in these 

 species; likewise, the insect which I have redescribed under the name of L. 

 morio Fabr. is different from the European insect of that name. Although 

 I had no American specimen at hand for comparison, I could perceive at once 

 that the wings of the European ones were less infuscated. I restore, therefore, 

 to the American species the name of L. m o r i o i d e s , which I at first intended 

 for it. 



Limnophila f a s c iata Z/?n?i. and Rhipidia m acul at a Meig. have not struck 

 me as being different from the American species which I have re-described 

 under the same names ; still, as I had no specimens of the latter for comparison, 

 I would not rely on a mere impression. 



My Amalopis inconstans has the greatest resemblance with Limnobia 

 1 i 1 1 r a 1 i s Meig. My A. a u r i p e n n i s is closely related to A. o c c u 1 1 a . 

 0th <• cases of analogy which I observed are between Pedicia albivitta 

 Walk., and P. rivosa, Dactylolabis m o n t a n a 0. 5'«f/f ., and Limnophila 

 sexmaculata Meig., Limnobia c i n c t ip e s Say. and L. annu lu s Meig., 

 L. solitaria and L. quadrinotata. 



In establishing the genus Elephantomyia, I had ventured the suppo- 

 sition that Toxorhina Loew had been founded on female specimens only, 

 and that, if the males were known, the neuration of their wings would be found 

 to be like that of the males of Limnobiorhyncbus Westic, that is, 

 considerably different from the females. This supposition has proved correct. 

 Mr. Loew has obtained since several male specimens ofTexorhina (fossil.) 

 They have a distinct radial vein, which, as usual, runs between the cubital and 

 the radial areas. The question of the synonymy of Limnobiorhyncbus 

 and Toxorhina may therefore be considered as settled. 



The examination of specimens of Macrochile Loe^o included in amber, 

 proved that this genus, like my Protoplasa, has the anal angle of the 

 wing square and not rounded. 



Note. — In the analytical table on p. 232 (Proc 1859,) the fifth line should 

 be continuous with the fourth, the species L. fuscovaria forming in fact 

 the group Dicranophragma. 



Catalogue of the MoUusks in the vicinity of Mohawk, New York. 



BY JAMES LEWIS, M. D. 



The following Catalogue embraces the various species of shell-bearing Mol- 

 lusca, observed in the vicinity of Mohawk, Herkimer Co., N. Y., and in various 

 small Lakes a few miles south of Mohawk. Some of the species referred to 

 have been entered here, from a single dead specimen. 

 Unio complanatus Lea. Erie canal and Mohawk river. Common, 

 radiatus Lamarck. Lakes. Abundant, 

 cariosus Sag. Mohawk river. Nearly or quite extinct, 

 ochraceus Sag. " " " •' " 



Tappanianus Lea. " " Very rare, 



luteolus Lam. " " Very rarely seen. 



Margaritana rugosa Barnes. Canal and river. Common. 



marginata Say. " " Not plenty, 



undulata Say. Lakes. One seen in river. Rare. 

 Anodonta fluviatilis Zm. Canal. Rare. Streams south, less rare, 

 lacustris Lea. Lakes. Abundant. (Nov. sp.) 

 Lewisii Lea. Canal. " " 



edentula Say. " Rare. Streams south, common. 

 Ferussaciana Lea. Canal and rivers. Small and rare 

 imbecilis Say. " " " '■ 



subcylindracea Lea. Herkimer. 

 I860.] 2 




18 PROOEEDINOS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



Cycl59 siilosita /,<»/«. (similis Sdi/.) Lakes. Common. 



? River, llaio. (nov. sp)? Rare. 



striiitiiiiv 7/<iw. (edentulrt .*?«//•) Ciuial and rivers. Common. 

 Iransver.^'u Sn;/. Canal and rivers. Smaller than from the west, 

 rhoinlioidea Sai/. (elegans Ad.) Lakes. Rare, 

 parlnnieia Sai/. Stagnant waters. 



t)eeidentalis rrimc Boggy streams and meadows. I'lentv. 

 risidintu virginienm B<j(. (dubium Soil.) River. Not very plenty, 

 ahiiitum ITiild. Stagnant waters. I'lenty. 

 oornpressum I'liine. Rivers and small stroums. Not rare, 

 equilateiale Prime. River east ol' Herkimer. Rare, 

 lerruginenni Prinw. River and lakes, 

 ventrioosnni Prime. Lakes and stagnant pools. 

 I'aliulina Integra Saij. Canal and river. Very plenty in canal, 

 deelsa Sity. " " Very plenty in river, 



rnl'a flald. " " Not plenty. Recently introduced. 



Melaniasnhnlaris Afrt. " " Common, 



exilis llald. •' 



virginiea Sa;/. Canal. Recently introdncod. Not plenty. LocaL 

 Vmnicola limosa Say. Canal and river. I'lenty. 



Instrica Sii(t. '■ " I'lenty in river, 



pallida Lea. Lakes. Not very plenty, 

 tennipes? Ifiild. Lakes. Not very plenty. 

 Valvata triearinata ^^',v^ Mohawk river plenty. Canal less plenty. 



var. simplex of triearinata Saij. in Thompson's Vermont shells. 



Whorls round, simple, (inornate) ; apex elevated ; umbilicus 

 wide and deep ; epidermis blue, varying to brown, but not green, 

 nor iridescent, 

 sincera S(»,v. Lakes. Very rare. I to 1000 of the above. 

 Lynuuva elodes iSiiij. Canal, ditches, pools^&c. varieties emargiuata and catas- 

 copium. I have ascertained, may be produced from the eggs of 

 elodes, by change of station, 

 desidiosa S,n/. Stagnant pools, margins of streams and lakes. 

 humilis //.»/</.? " '• " " 



umbilicata /lt/<ims " " ill wood lots, (is not caperata (Soy.) 



gracilis Jo;/. Schuyler's lake, Otsego Co. Plenty, 

 appressa Sat/, Little Lakes, A single dead shell observed, 

 columella .S<).v. Lakes. Not abundant nor large, 

 riiysa heterostroplia Sat/. Everywhere in pools, lakes and small brooks, 

 ancillaria S,u/. May be a var. of preceding. Rivers, very rare, 

 hypnorum lh;f/>. Stagnant pools. Small and rare, 

 riauorbis trivolvis Stii/. Common. 



bicarinatus Sat/. Commou. In some localities, (lakes) white, 

 canipanulatus Sa;/. Lakes. Less commou than the preceding, 

 armigcrus Sa;/. Stagnant waters. Commou. 

 hirsutus Sa;/. Lakes. Rare, 

 ex icutus So;/. Lakes. Very rare, 

 parvus So;/. Stagnant waters. Very plenty. 

 Ancylus tardus <^.jy. Mohawk river. Commou on stones and Uniones. 

 parallelus Hold. Lakes. Commoi\ on water plants. 

 fu>cus Adams. Lakes or waterfalls. Less abundant. 



' .\ variety occurs ii» Little I-ikes. which presents much diversity of c.iriii.ition. some 

 <l«H:\nieiis boinji almost entirely destitute of ciriiur, but ret.iininir the cli.Tracteristic iri- 

 >iosceiu j^roen tuisio. Those specimens in which ilu^ c.iriiur are olwolete have the upper 

 •tirlace of tlu' whorls (lattiMunl. ,tiu) the spire somewhat deprcsseii The conclusions of 

 authors, who suppose these varieties run into the loUowing, are erroneous. 



[Jan. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 19 



Helix albolabris Say. 



alternata Say. 



arborca Say. 



chersina Say. Rarely seen. 



concava Say. 



electrina Gould. 



fallax Say. Small var. 



fuliginosa Griffith. Rare and solitary. 



hydrophila Inyalls. Very plenty and gregarious. 



indentata Say. Rarely seen. 



intertexta Binney. 



lineata Say. Not plenty. 



inornata Say. Rare. 



minuta Say. Very plenty in damp groundi. 



minuscula Binney. Only very recently observed, and quite rare. 



monodon Kackett. Our most common Helix. 



palliata Say. 



ijayii Binney. Very rare. 



striatella Anthony. 



thyroides Say. Rare. 

 Succinea obliqua Say. 



vermeta Say. (Is not avara.) 

 ovalis Gould. 

 Bulimus lubricus Bruy. 

 Pupa pentodon Say. 

 contracta Say. 

 Vertigo ovata Say. 



Gouldii Bin. 

 Carychium exiguum Say. 



I have made some experiments for the purpose of ascertaining if various 

 species of Uniones would bear transplanting. The following species have been 

 placed in the Erie Canal, at various times, but no evidence has yet been had of 

 their multiplying: Unio radiatus from Schuyler's Lake. Unio campto- 

 don .S'ay, from Ohio ; U. parvus <S'ay, from Ohio ; U. undulatus Bar.., 

 from Ohio ;U. cariosus Say, from Troy, N. Y.; An. i m p 1 i c a t a Say, from 

 Troy, N. Y. 



A variety of Lymnaea known as catascopium Say, abounds in the 

 Canal, and it is very usual for their eggs to be washed over the sides of an 

 aqueduct into a small creek, where they come to maturity, to be washed into 

 the river with the fall floods. One or two favorable seasons have enabled 

 me to ascertain that those which came to maturity have the form of 

 el de s. A small pool of stagnant water, formerly the bed of the Canal pre- 

 vious to its eulargement, is populated by thousands of L y m n a; a that for- 

 merly formed part of the Canal family. These vary in their forms in different 

 seasons ; some retain the form of catascopium, others diverge to e m a r- 

 g i n a t a, but a larger number are e 1 o d e s. The P a 1 u d i n a of the Lakes I 

 regard as d e c i s a, but they are probably not the same as the shells of the 

 Canal and River that have that name. 



Notes on the Nomenclature of North American Fiahes. 



BY THEO. GILL. 



The following notes are selected from a large number on American and foreign 

 fishes in the possession of the author. Others upon North American fishes are 

 reserved until a more complete examination can be made; it is hoped that the 

 following may, in the mean time, be of service to the student of American 

 Ichthyology. 



I860.] 




20 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



1. Labrax chrysops Girard. — There is little doubt that the Labrax 

 alb id us of Dr. Dekay* and the Labrax osculatii ofFilippif are identi- 

 cal with the Labrax chrysops. Filippi, although acquainted with the work 

 of Dekay, compares his Labrax osculatii only with the L. 1 i n e a t u s Cuv. , 

 and chiefly distinguishes it from that species by its higher body and lingual 

 dentition. The specimens, from which the species of Filippi was described, 

 were sent to the Museum of Milan by the traveller to whom it was dedicated, 

 (M. Osculati,) and are stated by Filippi to have been obtained in Lake Ontario. 

 Notwithstanding this, Filippi has stated that it is an inhabitant of the sea and 

 the rivers of the United States. "Hab. in mare et fluvis confederationis Amer- 

 icanae." 



2. Lepomis achi gan Gill. — RafinesqueJ first indicated the Cicha fas- 

 ciata of Lesueur or Centrarchus obscurus of Dekay, under the name of 

 Bodianus achigan. His specific name must be preserved. 



3. Ambloplites rupestris Gill. — The Bodianus rupestris of Rafin- 

 esque, described in December, 1817, § appears to be the same as the species 

 subsequently named Cichla ae n e a by Lesueur. 



4. Pomotis maculatus Gill. — The common sun fish of New York was 

 first named Morone maculata by Mitchell. || His specific name should be 

 retained. 



(Corinia oxyptera Dekay. ^) — This is a species of the genus Serranus. 



5. Orthopristis fulvo-maculatus Gill. — If the genus Orthopris- 

 t i s is valid, the Hsemulon fulvo-maculatnm of Dekay** must be referred 

 to it under the above name. That species differs very little, if at all, from the 

 Orthopristis duplex of Dr. Girard. ff The two are probably identical. 



6. Sargus ovicephalus Gill. — The common sheep's-head was first named 

 by BlochJJ from the description of Schoepf.^§ 



Palinckichthys Gill. 



This name is proposed as a substitute for P a 1 i n u r u s of Dekay. The latter 

 name having been applied to a well-known genus of crustaceans, it is inadmis- 

 sible in any other branch of the animal kingdom. 



Y. Palinurichthys perciformis Gill. — Syn. Palinurus perciformis 

 Dekay, Zoology of New York, Fishes, p. 118. 



Percisa Haldeman.llll 

 The type of this genus is congeneric with the type of the subsequently estab- 

 lished genus, P i 1 e o m a of Dekay. The latter name is therefore a synonym of 

 P e r c i n a , and must be suppressed. 



8. Percina semifasciata Gill. — Syn. Pileoma semifaciata Dekay, 

 Zoology of New York, Fishes, p. 16. 



AsTBOScopus Brev. 

 Under this name, Mr. Brevoort proposes to separate from Uranoscopus the 



• Dekay, Zoology of New York, Fishes, p. 13, pi. 51, fig. 165. 



+ Filippi, Revue et Magasin de Zoologie, 2d series, vol. v- p. 164, 



t Rafinesque. American Monthly Magazine and Critical Review, vol. ii. p. 120. 



§ Loo. cit, vol. ii. p. 120. 



II Mitchell's Report in part on the fishes of New York, p. 19, Jan., 1814. 



V Dekay, loo. cit., p. 77, pi. xxx. fig. 96. 



** Dekay, loo. cit., p. 



tt Girard, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., Philadelphia, 1859. 



ttBloch. Schneider., Systema Ichthyologiae, p. 280. 



ii Schoepf in Schriften der Gesellchaft Naturf. Freunde zu Berlin, vol.viii. p. 152, 1788 



flHaldeman, Journ. Acad. Nat. Sci., vol. viii. p. 330, 1842. 



[Jan. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OE PHILADELPHIA. 21 



American U. a n o p 1 o s of Cuvier. Astroscopus differs from TJ r a n o s - 

 c o p u s by a less completely armed head, and by the absence of an exsertile 

 filament to the membrane behind the symphisis of the lower joint. To this 

 genus is also to be referred the Uranoscopos y-graecum of Cuvier and Val- 

 enciennes. 



9. Astroscopus a n o p I o s Brev. — Syn. Uranoscopus a n o p 1 o s Cuv. and Val. 

 Hist. Nat. des. Poissons, vol. viii, p. 493. 



(Lepisonia cirrhosum Dekay.*) — This fish, described as a new genus of 

 the family of Percoids, is the common Chinus pectinifer of Valen- 

 ciennes,! ^ West Indian species, which is the type of the genus Labrosomus 

 of Swainson.J 



Leptoblennius Gill. 



This genus is founded on the Blennius serpentinus of Dr. D. H. Storer. 

 It diifers widely from Blennius by the elongated form of the body, the shape 

 of the head, absence of superciliary tentacles, &c. It is equally distinct from 

 the genus P h o 1 i s . 



10. Leptoblennius serpentinus Gill. — Syn. Blennius serpentinus 

 Storer, Hist, of the Fishes of Mass., p. 91, pi. xvii. fig. 1. 



MoLACANTHUa Sw.§ 



The genus called by Dekay Acanthosoma had been previously named 

 by Swainson llolacanthus, and that appellation has been accepted by the 

 Prince of Canino.|| Swainson founded his genus on the Diodon mola of 

 Pallas, a species to which Dekay has referred in his remarks on Acanthosoma 

 carlnatum. 



1 1 . Molacanthus carinatus Gill. — Syn. Acanthosoma carinatum Dekay, 

 Zoology of New York Fishes, p. 350, pi. 4, fig. 179. 



Dr. Richardson has figured in the Ichthyology of the Voyage of the Sulphur,^ 

 a species of molacanthus, which he has named Orthagoriscus spinosus 

 Cuv., citing for that name the Regne Animal, vol. i. p. 370. On reference to 

 the volume of Cuvier, it will be seen that the name of Orthogoriscus spinosus 

 is attributed to Bloch of Schneider; in a foot note to the geuns enumerating 

 the species, it is again referred to as Orthogoriscus h i s p i d u s . The latter is 

 the name given to the species in the Systema Ichthyologiae,** and the former was 

 probably due to an oversight of Cuvier. The species of Richardson is also, 

 perhaps, a distinct species from the Molacanthus hispid us ^o«., and is an 

 inhabitant of the Chinese seas. 



On the Pertinence of the ALOSA TERES Dekay.to the Genus DUSSUMIERA Val. 



BY THEO. GILL. 



In the ichthyological volume of ■' Zoology of New York,f f " Dr. Dekay has 

 described a halecoid fish to which he has given the name of Alosa teres. He 

 has characterized the genus Alosa as having the characters of Clupea 

 (body compressed,) but distinguished by the tongue and the roof of the mouth 

 being smooth or edentulous. Notwithstanding this definition, he has without 



* Dekay. loc cit., p. 41, pi. 30, fig. 91. 



tCuv. Val. Hist. Nat. kes Poisons, vol. xi. 



t Swainson, Nat Hist, of Fishes, &c., vol. ii, pp. 7.5 and 277, 1839. 



g Swainson, Nat. Hist, of Fishes, Amphibians and Reptiles, vol. ii. p. 329. 



II Bonaparte, Catalogo Metodico dei Pesci Europei, p. 87. 



IfRichardson, loc. cit., p. 125, pL 2, figs. 10 and 11. 



**H1. Schn., loc. cit, p. 511. 



tt Zoology of New York Fishes, p. 262, pi. 40, fig. 128. 



I860.] 




22 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



hesitation, referred to the genus the above fish which he describes as having 

 the " body cylindrical," and with its tongue covered " with asperities on its surface." 

 In the " Histoire Naturelle des Poissons,"* Valenciennes, misled perhaps by the 

 generic definition of Dekay, has described what appears to be a true Alosa, 

 as the Alosa teres of Dekay. In the same volume f he has described a fish 

 to which he has given the name of Dussumiera acuta; this fish is there 

 stated to have a most close superficial resemblance to the sardines of the 

 Clupeoid family, but as being separated from them on account of the 

 smooth belly, and as being more nearly related to Butirinus, between 

 which genus and E 1 o p s it was believed that it should be placed. 



Subsequently, Mr. James C. Brevoort, in his •' Notes on the Figures of Japan- 

 ese Fish, "J (originally published in the second volume of the Narrative of the 

 United States Expedition to Japan, under Commodore Perry,) in a note on 

 Clupea micropus of Temminck and Schleger, corrected the erroneous ref- 

 erence of Valenciennes, and noticed the nearafiBnity of the Alosa teres to the 

 genus Dussumiera. 



Recently, in the Proceedings of the Philadelphia Academy.^ Dr. Charles 

 Girard has referred the same species to the genus Harengula of Valenciennes, 

 on account of the presence of teeth upon the maxillar bones, the tongue, the 

 palatines, and the pterygoidians, whilst the vomer is toothless." In dentition, 

 A. teres does indeed agree with Harengula, but is totally separated from 

 that genus by the form of the body, and is correctly referable to Dussumeria, 

 which has teeth upon the same bones, and otherwise agrees with Alosa t er e s . 



The species must, consequently, be hereafter called Dussumiera teres, and 

 its synonymy will be as follows : 



Dussumiera teres Brevoort. 



Synonymy. 



Alosa teres Dekay, Zoology of New York Fishes, p. 262, pi. 40, fig. 128,1842 

 " " Troschel, Bericht in Archiv. fur Naturgeschichte, 1844, vol. ii 



p. 245, (abstract). 

 " " Siorer, Synopsis of the Fishes of North America, p. , ib. in Memoirs 



American Academy, vol. ii., p. 460, (compiled,) 1846. 

 " " Baird, Report on Fishes of New Jersey coast, p. 35 ; ib. in Ninth 



Annual Report Smithsonian Institution, p. 349, 1855. 

 Dussumiera sp. Brevoort, Is otes on some figures of Japanese Fish, p. 27 ; ib. in 

 Narrative of Expedition to Japan, vol. ii., p. 279, 1807. 

 Harengula teres Girard,VTOC. Acad. Nat. Sci., Philad'a. p. 158, May. 1859. 

 (Not "Alausa teres Dekay," Val. Hist. Nat. des Poissons, vol. xx. p. 423.) 



Prodromus descriptionis animalium evertebratornm, quae in Expeditione ad 

 Oceanum Pacificum Septentrionalem, a RepublicaFederatamissa, Cadwaladaro 

 Ringgold et Johanne Rodgers Ducibus, observavit et descripsit 



W. STIMPSON. 

 Paks VIII. CRUSTACEA MA CRURA. 



THALASSmiDEA. 



359. Gebia subspinosa, nov. sp. G. majori affinis. Foeminae manus pe- 

 dum primi pans intus spina una prope pollicem, || et duabus ad basin dac- 



* Hist. Nat. des Poissons, vol. xs., p. 423. 

 t Hist. Nat. des Poissons, vol. xx., p. 467. 

 t Loo. cit, p. 27. 

 5 Loo. cit., May, 18.59. 

 fi PoUex nobis est digitus immobilis. 



[Jan 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 26 



tyli armata ; poUes intus bidentatus, dentibus minutis ; dactylus superne ca- 

 rinatus, carina crenulata. Pedes primi, secundi, tertiiqiie paris prope basin 

 spina acuta armati. 



Bab. — In sinu " Simon's Bay" ad Promont. Bonae Spei ; in fundo arenoso, 

 prof. 8 org. 



360. Gebia carixicauda, nov. sp. G. majori affinis. Carapax antice angus- 

 tior, dentibus minus prominentibus, fronte spinulis erectis sat validis pectina- 

 ta. Pedum primi paris manus infra spina versus poUicem instructa ; pollex in- 

 tus subtiliter denticulatus ; dactylus superne carinatus, carina laevi. Pedum 

 tertii paris foeminae coxa spina parvula super aperturam genitalem armata. 

 tjulci laterales segmentorum. abdominalium validi, segmenti penultimi validi- 

 ores. Abdominis segmentum ultimum carina transversa acuta prope basin 

 ornatum; lamellae laterales valide carinatae, marginibus terminalibus spin- 

 ulis crenulatae. Long. 1.77 ; carapacis long. 0.56 ; carap. regionis anterioris 

 lat. 0.19 ; regionis post. lat. 0.29 poll. 



Hab. — In portu " Hong Kong ;" sublittoralis in locis limoso-sabulosis. 



361. Gebia pugettensis, Dana ; U. S. Expl. Exped., Crust., i. 510, pi. xxxii. 

 f. 1. Stimpson ; Bost. Jour. Nat. Hist., vi. 48, pi. xxi. — Ad oras Californiae. 



362. Callianassa petalpba, nov. sp. Parva. Antennae externae carapace 

 plus duplo longiores. Pedes primi paris foeminae eis maris similes ; pedis 

 dextri merus brevis, robustus, subtus dente valido basali instructus quam 

 merus ipse vix tertia parte breviore, antrorsum porrecto, serrato ; carpus lon- 

 gior quam latior et quam merus multo longior, marginibus parce dilatatis et 

 laevibus ; manus elongata, quam carpus angustior ; palma quam carpus non 

 brevior, superne margine laevis, subtus serrata et ciliata ; digiti palma quarta 

 parte breviores, sat graciles, pilosi. Pes primus sinister gracillimus, mero in- 

 terne edentato. Lamellae caudales parvae, laeves, glabrae, rotundatae, subae- 

 quales ; segmentum caudale in foeminis quam in maribus latius, margine pos- 

 teriore leviter sinuatum ; lamellae externae marginibus externis incrassatae 

 vel pulvinatae, in maribus longe ciliatae. Foeminae long. 1.57 ; long, carapa- 

 cis, 0.36 ; long, carpi manus dactylique chelipedis majoris, 0.70 poll. 



Hab. — In portu * ' Simoda' ' Japoniae. 



363. Callianassa californiensis, Dana; Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Philad., vii. 

 175. Stimpson ; Bost. Joiir. Nat. Hist. vi. 489, pi. xxi. f. 4. — Ad oras Californiae 

 prope urbem ' ' San Francisco. ' ' 



ASTACIDEA. 



364. Ibacus NOVEsrDESTATUs, Gibbes ; Proc. Am. Assoc. 1850, p. 193. Inter 

 /. ciliatum et I. peronii ; — an distinctus ? Specimen nostrum dentes octo la- 

 terales habet. In Mari Sinensi prope "Hong Kong;" fundo limoso prof. 20 

 org. 



365. Paekibacus antaecticus, Dana; U. S. Expl. Exped., Crust., i. 517, pi. 

 xxxii. f. 6. Scyllarus antarcticus, Fabr. Ibacus antarcticus, M. Edw. — Ad in- 

 sulas Hawaienses et ad insulam "Tahiti." 



366. Scyllarus Sieboldii, De Haan ; Fauna Japonica, Crust. 153, pi. xxxvi., 

 et xxxvii. f. 1. — Ad insulam "Ousima." 



367. Arctus soedidps, nov. sp. Carapax latus, sed non latior quam longior ; 

 crista mediana tridentata, dente anteriore parvo, juxta frontem sito ; crista 

 laterali dentibus duobus super oculum et dente uno paullo remote armata ; 

 angulis antero-lateralibus prominentibus. Antennarum articulus secundus 

 utrinque dente uno solum valido armatus, angulo anteriore acuto prominente, 

 crista valida sed laevi ; articulus quartus margine antico dentibus quatuor 

 magnis obtusis, et dente uno acuto intus uni-denticulato introrsum sito arma- 

 tus. Sternum antice bifurcatum, fiircis triangularibus, dentiformibus. Fusco- 

 1860.] 




24 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



luteus ; pedes nigro quadri-annulati ; abdominis segmentum primum nigro 

 uni-maculatum. Foeminae long. 2.2 poll. A. urso (Scyllaro arcto,) Auct. 

 affinis. Ab A. rugoso differt abdominis segmento tertio non gibboso. 

 Hah. — In portu "Hong Kong ;" f. conchoso p. 8 org. vulgaris. 



368. PALiNXTBtJS Lalaxdei, Milne-Edwards ; Hist. Nat. des Crust, ii. 293. — 

 Ad Promont. Bonae Spei. 



369. Paxulikus OKNATUS, Gray. Palinurus ornatus, Bosc, M.Edwards; Hist. 

 Nat. des Crust, ii. 296 (?J — Prope oras insulae " Hong Kong." 



370. Pancliecs iSTERRTJPTtJS, Stimpsou. Palinurus interruptus, Randall ; 

 Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci. Piiilad., viii. 137. — California. 



371. Paxuliecs penicillatus, Gray, Dana. Palinurus penicillatus, (Oliv.) 

 M. Edwards ; Hist. Nat. des Crust, ii. 299. — Ad insulam " Tahiti." 



372. Paxulircs japoxicus, Gray. Palinurus japonicus, Siebold, De Haan ; 

 Fauna Japonica, Crust. 158, pi. xli. et slii. — Ad oras Japonicas prope urbem 

 "Simoda." 



373. AsTACus NiGRESCEXS, Stimpsou ; Bost. Jour. Nat. Hist. vi. 492. — Califor- 

 nia. 



Cabidea.* 



374. Cran'gox capensis, nov. sp. C. vulgari paullo affinis, in spina mediana 

 carapacis, etc. Carapax medio parce carinatus, carina dente minuto in medio 

 armata ; dentibus v. spinis lateralibus mullis. Maxillipedes externi squamam 

 vel appendicem antennalem superantes. Pedum primi paris palma obliqua, 

 fere longitudinalis. Pedes quinti eos primi paris superantes. Abdomen vix 

 carinatum; Cauda valde compressa. Long, foeminae, 0.9 poll. C. affini, De 

 Haan, proximus. 



* Simulacrum carapacis Carideorum. 



Regio pastrica. ]. Spina supraorbitalis, (interdum duae) 



Re2:io branchialis. 2. Angulus orbitae externus, interdum 



Regio cardiaca. spiniformis, 



Regio hepatica. 3. Spina antennalis. 



Regio orbitalis. 4. Spina branchiostegiana (in generibus 



Regio antennalis. Leander et Pandalus conspicua.) 



Kegio frontalis. 5, Spina pterygostomiana 



6. Spina hepatica (in Palaemonibus, Pen- 

 aeis, etc.) 



Sutura V. sulcus cervicalis ;— pars dorsalis in Stenopis, Sicyoniis, Alpheis etc plus 



minusve distincta, pars antero-lateralis in quibusdam Penaeis et Leandris. 

 Sutura cardiaco-branchialis, raro distincta. 



Sulcus antennalis, et c hepaticus, in Penaeis multis valde conspicuus. 

 Sulcus gastro-orbitalis, in Crangonibus. 

 Sulcus gastro-frontalis, in Fenaeo monocero. 

 Sulcus gastro-hcpaticus, in Stenopis, Penaeis, etc. 

 Sulcus orbito-antennalis, in Alpheo et Spongicola. 



[Jan. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 25 



Hah. — In sinu "Simon's Bay," Promont. Bonae Spei; f. arenoso, prof. 12 

 org. 



375. Ceaxgon cakixicauda, nov. sp. Carapax depressiis, pubescens, sep- 

 temcarinatus ; carinis levibus, retrorsum distinctis ; mediana antice obsoleta ; 

 tribus lateralibus approximatis, quarum prima et tertia unispinosis, spinis ad 

 quartam anteriorem carapacis sitis. Rostrum valde angustatum, longitudinal- 

 iter sulcatum, extremitate bifidum. Pedes primi crassi, palma obliqua magis 

 longitudinali ; secundi quam tertii robustiores sed dimidia breviores, non in- 

 flexi, carpo manuque quam merus breviores, manu chelata digitis rectis pa- 

 rallelis ; tertii filiformes ; quarti quintique valde graciles ; quiuti primes su- 

 perantes. Abdomen insculptum, sulcis plerisque transversis, pubescentibus ; 

 segmentis tertio, quarto quintoque gibbosis, valide carinatis. Long. 0.66 ; 

 carap. long. 0.16 ; carap. lat. 0.139 poll. 



Hab. — In portu Sinensi " Hong Kong." 



376. Ckangon FEANCISCOK0M, Stimpson ; Crust, and Ecbin. Pacific Coast of 

 N. Am., 55. ; Bost. Jour. Nat. Hist. vi. 495, pi. xxii. f. 5. 



Hab, — In portu "San Francisco," Californiae. 



377. Ceaxgox nigeicauda, Stimpson ; Crust, and Ecbin. Pacific Coast of N. 

 Am., 56. ; Bost. Jour. Nat. Ilist. vi. 496, pi. xxii. f. 6. C. vulgaris, Owen, Dana, 

 (non Fabr.) 



Hah. — In portu " San Francisco," Californiae. 



378. Craxgon PEOPUfQuus, nov. sp. C. vulgari et C. nlgriratidae valde af- 

 finis, sed abdominis segmento quarto (et interdum tertio quoque, ) in adultis 

 carinato. Segmentum ultimum extremitate spinulis sex armatum. A C. nigri- 

 cauda diifert pedum primi jiaris manu angustiore, palma magis obliqua, digi- 

 toque immobili longiore. A C. affini maxillipedibus externis et pedibus quin- 

 tis brevioribus ut iu C vulgari. Long. 2.5 poll. 



Hab, — Prope oras boreales Japoniae ; in fundis arenosis limosisque prof. 4-20 

 org. 



379. Craxgon salebeosus, Owen ; Beecbey's Voy. Zool. 88, pi. xxvii. f. 1. — 

 In sinu " Avatska" Kamtscbatkae ; vulgaris in fundo limoso, inter Eudendria 

 ad prof. 10 org. 



380. Crangon BOREAS, Fabr., Milne-Edwards; Hist. Nat. des Crust, ii. 342; 

 Regne Anim., pi. li. 2. Owen ; Beechey's Voy., Zool. 87. Brandt ; Sib. Reise, 

 Zool. 114. — In freto Beringiano et in Oceano Arctico ; ad prof. 10-26 org. 



381. Craxgox AXG0STICAUDA, Dc Haau ; Fauna Japonica, Crust. 183, pi. xlv. 

 f. 15. — In portibus " Simoda" et " Hakodadi, " Japoniae ; sublittoralis, vul- 

 garis inter algas. 



382. Craxgox ixteemedics, nov. sp. Carapax laevis, nitidus, medio cari- 

 natus, carina bi-spinosa, spina anteriore debili prope rostrum sita, altera me- 

 diana, valida ; latera spinis quatuor armata, duabus in margine antico, una 

 valida in superficie laterali, et una minuta prope carinam. Rostrum elevatum 

 prominens, non acuminatum. Maxillipedes externi graciles, appendicem anten- 

 nalem superantes. Pedes primi apicem appendicium non attingentes ; secundi 

 tertiis pauUo breviores ; quarti quintique longi, eis C. boreae multo graciliores, 

 Bed dactylis longis, curvatis. Sternum inerme. Abdomen superficie marginibns- 

 que inferioribus laeve ; carina parvula, sed in segmento antepenultimo acuta, 

 in penultimo duplicata ; segmento ultimo valde elongato, minuente, extremi- 

 tate fere acuto. Foeminae long. 1.7 ; carap. long. 0.38 ; segmenti abdominis 

 ultimi long. 0.32 poll. Facie et armatura carapacis Nectocrangoni lari similis. 



^ Hah. — In mari Beringiano prope Promontorium ' ' Cliepoonski ; " ad prof. 40 

 org. 



383. Nectoceaxgox l.vr, Brandt ; Sib. Reise, Zool. 115. Crangon lar, Owen, 

 I860.] 




26 PKOCEEDINGS Or THE ACADEMY OP 



Beechey's Voy., Zool. 88, pi. xxviii, f. 1. Argis* lar, Kroyer; Tidsskrift, iv. 

 255; pi. V. f. 45-62. — In sinu " Avatska," in freto Beringiano, et in Oceano 

 Arctico ; fundis limosis prof. 10-20 org. 



384. Sabinea septemcaeinata, Owen ; App. to Ross' Voy. 82. Kroyer ; Tids- 

 skrift, iv. 244, pi. iv. f. 34-^0 et pi. v. f. 41-44. Crangon septemspinosus, Sa- 

 bine. — In Oceano Arctico, prope oras Siberiae. 



385. NicA EDULis, Risso ; Milne-Edwards ; Hist. Nat. des Crust, ii. 364. — In 

 sinu "Funchal" insulae Madeirae ; f. arenoso, p. 15 org. 



386. NiCA MACKOGiVATHA, nov. sp. Corpus robustum, minus compressum. 

 Carapax sat latus, leviter depressus, laevis, non carinatus, rostro brevi, 

 quam oculi multo breviore, acuminato. Antennnularum tiagellum breve. 

 Maxillipedes externi grandes, extremitates antennularum fere attingentes ; 

 mero crasso, pedibus primi paris non angustiore, et carapace vix tei'tia 

 parte breviore. Pedes primi robusti ; pes dexter vel chelatus robustior, sed 

 quam sinister pauUo brevior. Abdominis segmentum terminale dorso longi- 

 tudinaliter late sulcatum et paribus duobus aculeorum annatum ; extremitate 

 aculeis sex peetinatum, duabus longis, duabus mediocribus et duabns brevi- 

 bus. Long. 1 poll. N. eduli etc. valde affinis. Ab N. eduli differt corpore 

 robustiore, et rostro breviore ; ab N. hawaiensi, oculis minoribus, et pedibus 

 primi paris brevioribiis ; ab N. japonico, maxillipedibus externis longioribus, 

 et segmento ultimo abdominis aculeis dorsalibus armato. 



Sab. — In i)ortu " Hong Kong ;" f. conchoso, p. 8 org. 



HippoLYSMATA, nov. geu. Carapax rostro sat longo verticaliter dilatato et 

 dentato instructus. Antennulae flagellis duobus longis instructae. Mandibulae 

 valde incurvatae, uec bipartitae nee palpigerae. Maxillipedes externi elongati 

 exognatbo flagelloque instructi ; articialo ultimo gracili. Pedes Imi— 4ti 

 flagello instructi. Pedes primi crassiusculi, cbelati, manu oblonga ; secundi 

 filiformes, clielati, carpo multi-annulato. Abdomen dorso laeve. Lysmatae 

 affinis, sed antennulis iiagellis duobus tantum praeditis. Ab Hippolyte differt 

 mandibularum forma. 



387. HippOLYSMATA viTTATA, uov. sp. Carapax per dimidiam anteriorem 

 carinatus, rostro apicem articuli penultimi pedunculi antennularum attingente, 

 superne septem- dentato, dentibus gracilibus antrorsum porrectis, dente pos- 

 teriore vel primo parce ante medium carapacis sito, et dente secundo intervallo 

 duplo remoto ; rostro infra prope extremitatem tridentato, dentibus parvis. 

 Margo carapacis anterior utrinque spina sub oculo et dente minuto acute 

 pterygostomiano armatus. Antennularum flagellum externum corpore fere 

 duplo longius ; parte basali incrassata, pedunculo non breviore, infra ciliata. 

 Appendix anteunarum extremitatem pedunculi antennularum attingens. 

 Maxillipedes externi appendices multo superantes ; exognatbo longitudine 

 tertiam partem endognatbi adequante. Pedes primi paris apicem appen- 

 dicium attingentes ; pedum secundi paris carpus 20-articulatus ; pedes postici 

 longi. Segmentum caudale triangulare, dorso paribus duobus aculeorum 

 armatum. Color pallide ruber ; corpus coccineo-vittatum. Long. 1.3 poll. 



Hob. — In portu " Hong Kong ;" f. limoso p. sex. org. 



TozEUMAj, nov. gen. Corpus valde elongatum, lanceolatum, utriuque at- 

 tenuatum, compressum. Rostrum gracile longissimum, interdum corpore vis 

 brevius. Antennulae breves, flagellis duobus instructae. Appendix antennarum 

 longa. Mandibulae sat robustae, valde incurvatae, nee bipartitae nee palpi- 

 gerae. Maxillipedes externi brevissimi, exognatbo nuUo, et flagello nuUo 

 praediti. Pedes breves epipodis destituti. Pedes primi brevissimi, crassiores, 



^ ^ 



* Nomen Kroyeri praeoccupatum est. 

 t ti^ivfAa, telum. 



[Jan. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 27 



chelati ; secundi filiformes, chelati, carpotri-articulato. Abdomen dorso den- 

 tibus armatum ; articulo ultimo elongate fere lanceolato. 



388. TozEUMA LANCEOLATCM, nov. sp. Corpus gracillimum, in maribus valde 

 compressum, Carapax ecarinatus. Rostrum aciculiforme, quam corpus vix 

 quarta parte brevius, superne obtuse-rotundatum, superficie carapace con- 

 tinuum ; infra serratum et versus basin lamellatum. Margo carapacis anterior 

 sub oculo acutus, et ad angulum antero-lateralem spina acuta ai-matus. An- 

 tennulae appendicem antennarum adequantes, flagello externo omnino incras- 

 sato et quam internum multo breviore. Antennae rostro breviores ; squamis 

 elongatis, longitudine tertiam partem rostri aequantibus, vix minuentibus, 

 latitudine quartam longitudinis aequante. Abdomen superne earinatum et acute 

 tridentatum, (segmentis 3tio 4to 5toque dentigeris) ; segmento ultimo lamellis 

 lateralibus longiore, dorso paribus tribus aculeorum armato. Animal vivum 

 fere pellucidum, rostro, cauda, et ventro rubris exceptis. Long., rostro in- 

 cluso, 2.5 ; alt. thoracis, 0.18 poll. 



Hab. — In portu "Hong Kong;" in fundo limoso prof. sex. org. sat vul- 

 garis. 



Latreutes,* nov. gen. Rhynchocyclo affinis. Carapax dorso spina mediana 

 armatus. Rostrum grande, elongatum, lamellatum, cultriforme, margine 

 superiore recto j^vel rectiusculo. Antennulae bi-flagellatae, squama basali 

 brevi, orbiculata, sub oculo celata. Antennarum appendix acuta. Mandibulae 

 robustae, breves, valde incurvatae. Maxillipedes externi breves, exognatho 

 flagelloque instructi. Pedes primi, secundi, tertii, quartique paris flagello in- 

 structi. Pedum secundi paris carpus tri-articulatus. 



389. Latreutes ensiferus. Hippolyte ensiferus, Milne-Edwards ; Hist. Nat. 

 des Crust, ii. 374. Goodsir ; Ann. Mag. Nat. Hist. xv. 74. Dana ; U. S. 

 Expl. Exped., Crust., i. 562.— In Oceano Atlantic©, lat. bor. 30°— 35° ; vul- 

 garis in Sargasso. 



390. Latredtes dorsalis, nov. sp. Elongatus et compressus. Carapax 

 dorso carinatus et dentibus duobus armatus, dente anteriore spiniformi an- 

 trorsum porrecto, dente posteriore obtuso fere obsolescente. Rostrum cultri- 

 forme carapace non breviiis, antennulas et appendices antennarum superans, 

 paullo reflexo ; marginibus supra infraque subtiliter partim denticulatis. 

 Margo carapacis anterior prope angulum antero-lateralem dentibus minutis 

 spiniformibus pectinatus. Aatennularum pedunculus flagellorum tertiam 

 partem longitudine adequans ; flagella aequalia. Antennarum pedunculus 

 eum antennularum non superans ; appendix elongato-triangularis, vel lanceo- 

 lata, valde acuta. Maxillipedes externi apicem pedunculi antennarum attin- 

 gentes. Pedes breves, et, primis exceptis, graciles. Pedum secundi paris 

 carpi articulus secundus articulos primum tertiumque junctos adequans. Abdo- 

 men obtuse-carinatum, dorso undulatum, marginibus infemis inerme; segmento 

 caudali aculeis dorsalibus carente, aculeis extremitatis longis. Color coccineus ; 

 dorsum albo univittatum. Long. 0.8 poll. 



Hab. — In sinu " Hakodadi" Japoniae ; vulgaris in fundo concboso, prof. 

 8 org. 



Rhynchocyclus, Stm. (Cyclorhynchus, Be Haan ; — nom. praeoc.) Rostrum 

 grande, orbiculatum, lamellatum. Antennulae flagellis duobus instructae ; 

 pedunculo brevi ; squama basali orbiculata, sub oculo celata. Maxillipedes 

 externi breves, exognatho flagelloque instructi. Pedes Imi — 4ti flagello 

 instructi. Carpus pedum secundorum tri-articulatus. 



391. Rhynchocyclus planirostris. Cyclorhynchus planirostris, De Ilaan ; 

 Fauna Japonica, Crust., 175, pi. xlv. f. 7. — In sinu " Hakodadi, " et prope oras 

 boreales insulae "Niphon;" in fundis sabulosis arenosisque prof. 10 — 20 org. 



*KaTfiu'ryi^, cultor. 



I860.] 




28 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



392. Rhtnchoctclus muceonatus, nov. sp. Dorsum carapacis spina una 

 selum armatum, mediana, valida et spiniformi. Rostrum ovatum, quam in 

 C. planirostri angustius, appendices antennarum pauUo superans, extremitate 

 valide mucronatum, margine antico supra infraque sex-denticulatum. Margo 

 anterior carapacis spina sub oculo armatus, et ad basin antennarum spinis 

 minutis octo pectinatus. Abdomen ecarinatum ; segmento tertio dorso sat 

 prominente. Color pallida fuscus, albo-maculatus. Pedes subrufi. Long. 1 

 poll. 



Hab. — In freto "Ly-i-moon" prope Hong Kong ; f. conchoso p. 25 org. 



393. RHTNCHOcycLus coiiPREsscs, nov. sp. Corpus compressum. Carapax 

 crista valida dorsali instructus bi-dentata, dentibus obtusis, dente anteriore 

 majore et spina minuta antice armato. Rostrum latins (altius) quam longius, 

 appendices antennarum superans, oblique truncatum; margine superiore con- 

 cavo, laevi ; margine supero-anteriore sex-dentato ; margine inferiore convexo, 

 arcuato, laevi. Spina infra-ocularis minuta. Margo carapacis ad insertionem 

 antennarum tri-denticulatus. Maxillipedes externi extremitate obtusi et 

 spinis validis corneis septem armati. Pedes toti valde breves. Carpus pedum 

 primi paris obtusus. Abdomen dorso obtusum. Color purpureo-fuscus, dorso 

 pauUo ceruleus. Long. 0.75 poll. 



Sab. — In portu "Jackson" Australiae ; f. algoso p. 2 org. 



894. GrNATHOPHTLLUM FASCioLATPM, uov. sp. G. eleganti valde affinis, colore 

 excepto. Corpus obesum. Carapax dorso obtuse carinatus, carina retrorsum 

 obsoleta et antrorsum rostro continua ; rostro brevi, apicem articuli antepe- 

 nultimi antennularum pedunculi non attingente, superne oblique truncato, 

 paullo concavo et sexdentato, extremitate acuto, carinis lateralibus juxta 

 marginem inferiorem laevem sitis. Oculi grandiores. Segmentum caudale 

 aculeis duobus marginalibus versus extremitatem, et duobus longis ad ex- 

 tremitatem armatum. Corpus album, pellucidum, fasciis linearibus trans- 

 versis purpureo-fuscis ad 10 ornatum ; pedunculisoculorumbi-vittatis ; max- 

 illipedibus externis superficie annulis quatuor eidem coloris notatis. Long. 

 0.8 ; carapacis lat. 0.23 poll. 



Hab. — In portu "Jackson" Australiensi ; in fundo limoso prof, sex org. 



395. Atyotoa BisuLCATA, Randall; Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci. Philad. , viii. 140; 

 pi. V. f. 5. Dana ; U. S. Expl. Exped. Crust, i. 540, pi. xxxiv. f. 1. — Ad in- 

 sulam ' ' Hawaii. ' ' ♦ 



396. Atyoida tahitensis, nov. sp. A. bisulcatae valde similis, (an diversa?) 

 sed rostro paullo breviore, latiore et magis depresso ; flagello externo anten- 

 nularum quam internum dimidia breviore ; et angulo postero-inferiore seg- 

 menti abdominis quinti minus acuto. Long. 1 poll. 



Mab. — In aquis dulcibus insulae " Tahiti." 



397. Cakidina geandirostris, nov. sp. Rostrum carapace vix brevius, 

 appendices antennarum superans, extremitate gracile paullo reflexum ; crista 

 dorsali supra oculos fere recta et denticuUs minutis ad 20 serrata, denticulo 

 postico supra basim pedunculorum oculorum sito ; cristae parte quarta an- 

 teriore edentula, denticulo uno mediano et duobus apicalibus exceptis ; rostri 

 margine inferiore obscure 8 — 10-denticulato. Pedum primi paris carpus quam 

 manus multo brevior ; secuudi paris carpus valde gracilis et manu parce 

 longior. Segmentum caudale lamellis lateralibus quarta parte brevius, dorso 

 paribus sex aculeorum instructum. Long. 1 poll. C. denticulatae affinis sed 

 rostro longiore. A C. longirostri differt dentibus rostri superne magis numero- 

 sis. 



Hab. — Ad insulam "Loo Choo." 



398. Caridina leucosticta, nov. sp. Rostrum circiter carapacis longitudine, 

 pedunculo antennularum longius ; margine superiore recto, dentibus tenuibus 

 ad 17 -f- 3 armato, apicem versus parce resimo et edentulo ; margine inferiore 



[Jan. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 29 



10-dentato. Spina antennalis alte posita. Pedes gracillimi ; posticorum 

 merus margine inferiore spinulis'longis 2 — 5 armatus. Color obscure-fuscus, . 

 maculis vel stigmis miniitis crebris albis notatus. Long. 1 poll. A C. den- 

 ticulata differt rostro recto magis denticulate 



Hab. — In flumine prope urbem " Simoda" Japoniae. 



399. Caridina multidentata, nov. sp. Rostrum medium articuli ultimi 

 pedunculi antennularum attingens ; crista dorsali lamellato-dilatata, arcuata, 

 supra bases oculorum oriente, et denticulis 20 — 30 serrata ; extremitate ro- 

 busta, acuta, vix denticulata ; margine inferiore 14-denticulato. Margo 

 carapacis anterior spina antennali armatus. Pedes secundi paris pedunculum 

 antennularum superantes ; carpo manu longiore ; digitis depressis, penicillis 

 densis, latis, fere fiabelliformibus. Dactyli pedum posticorum breves, septi- 

 mam partem articuli penultimi longitudine non superantes. Segmentum cau- 

 dale dorso non concavum, paribus quinque aculeorum instructum ; lamellae 

 laterales grandes, segmento caudale fere duplo longiores, extremitatibus pro- 

 ductis subtriangularibus. Long. 1.5 poll. 



Hab. — Ad insulas "Benin;" in rivulis montanis. 



400. Caeidina serrata, nov. sp. Rostrum breve, articulum antepenulti- 

 mum pedunculi antennularum vix superans, elongato-triangulare et ad basin 

 sat latum in piano horizontal], extremitate acutum ; crista dorsali sat dilatata, 

 arcuata et dentibus 14 serrata. Pedes secundi paris longi, appendices antenna- 

 rum superantes ; carpo valde gracili ; manu robusta, penicillis quam in 

 manibus primis multo longioribus. Long. 0.75 poll. 



Hab. — Ad insulam "Hong Kong;" in rivulis. 



401. Caridina acuminata, nov. sp. Thorax sat compressus. Rostrum 

 breve, oculos parce superans, trigonum, ad basin horizontaliter latum, ad ex- 

 tremitatem pauUo deflexum ; marginibus totis levibus ; crista dorsali non 

 dilatata, dorso continua. Antennularum flagella longitudine aequalia. Manu- 

 um penicilli parvi, breves. Pedes postici spinulis asperi ; tertii et quinti 

 paris quam quarti paris longiores. Color olivaceus, punctatus. Long. 1 

 poll. 



Hab. — Ad insulas "Bonin;" in rivulis montanis. 



402. Caridina brevirostris, nov. sp. Corpus gracile. Rostrum brevissimnm, 

 oculis brevius, trigonum ; margine superiore obtuso, laevi. Margo carapacis 

 ad basin antennarum inermis. Manns primi paris digiti breves, quam palma 

 multo breviores. Pedum posticorum dactyli robusti, vix curvati ; et quartam 

 partem articuli penultimi longitudine aequantes. Long. 0.5 poll. C. acumi- 

 natae affinis, rostro breviore. 



Hab. — Ad insulam "Loo Choo ;" in aquis dulcibus. 



403. Caridina exilirostkis, nov. sp. Rostrum ei C. typi fere simile, sed 

 minus ; — valde gracile, compressum, angustum, acutum, medium articuli pe- 

 nultimi antennularum pedunculi parce superans ; margine superiore laevi, 

 carapace continuo ; margine inferiore obsolete 2-3-dentato. Pedes secundi 

 paris longi, valde graciles ; manu parva, compressa ; carpo manu longiore. 

 Pedum posticorum dactyli tertiam partem articuli penultimi longitudine ade- 

 quantes. Long. 1.25 poll. 



Hub. — Ad insulam "Loo Choo ;" in aquis dulcibus. 



404. Alpheus eapax, Fabr. ; Suppl. Ent. Syst., 405. De Haan ; Fauna Ja- 

 ponica. Crust. 177, pi. xlv. f. 2. — Prope eras Sinenses in lat. bor. 23° ; in fun- 

 do limoso prof. 6-20 org. 



405. Alpheus avarus, Fabr. ; Suppl. Ent. Syst., 440 A. strenuus, Dana ; 

 U. S. Expl. Exped., Crust, i. 543, pi. xxxiv. f. 4. — Ad insulas "Hawaii," 

 "Bonin" et "Ousima;" in portibus "Simoda" et "Hong Kong;" et in freto 

 I860.] 




80 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



"Gaspar;" littoralis vel sublittoralis sub lapidibus in sabulo habitans ; — in- 

 terdum in aquis sat profundis. 



406. Alphecs Bis-DicistTS, De Haan; Fauna Japonica, Crust, pi. xlv. f. 3. 

 A. avarus, De Haan ; (non Fabr.) 1. c. p. 179. — In sinu " Kagosima" Japoniae ; 

 in fundo nigro-arenoso ad prof. 20 org. 



407. Alphecs pachychiecs, nov. sp. Frons lata, truncata. Carapax inter 

 oculos carinatus, carina postice obsolescente, antice marginem frontalem vix 

 superante ; palpebris valde tumidis, sed aeque marginem non superantibus. 

 Antennularum pedunculi articulus penultimus quam antepenultimus paullo 

 longior. Antennae carentes spina basali externa ; appendice quam pedunculus 

 multo breviore. Maxillipedes externi sat graciles, articulo ultimo brevi, elon- 

 gato-ovato, extus depress© et parce concavo, marginibus longe ciliato. Pedum 

 primi paris manus extroversa, digito exteriore. Manus major crassissima, ro- 

 tundata, laevis, superne et versus digitos pilosa, sinibus nuUis ; digitis valde 

 brevibus ; dactylo dimidiam palmae non aequante, hamato, apice acuto. Manus 

 minor maris dimidiam majoris magnitudine adequans, valde robusta, superne 

 pilosa ; digitis palmii non brevioribus ; dactylo dilatato, intus concavo et dense 

 pubescente, prope apicem contracto. Manus rmnor foeminae parva, valde gra- 

 cilis, digitis brevibus, teretibus. Pedum tertii paris merus paullo dilatatus et 

 apice inferiore dente armatus. Dactyli pedum sex posticorum breves. Seg- 

 mentum caudale medio depressum. Long. 1 poll. A. frontali, M. Edw., af- 

 finis, sed fronte minus prominente et paullo rostrata ; articulo pedunculi an- 

 tennularum penultimo breviore, etc. 



Bab. — Ad insulam "Loo Cboo." 



408. Alpheus STREPTOCHiEcrs, nov. sp. Frons inter oculos sat angusta, le- 

 viter carinata ; rostrum breve, spiniforme ; orbita rotundato-convexa, spinula 

 minuta armata. Articulus antennularum pedunculi penultimus antepenul- 

 timo sesqui longior. Antennarum spina externa basis obsoleta ; pedunculus 

 longitudine appendici fere aequalis. Maxillipedum externorum articulus ulti- 

 mus angustus, minuiscens, extremitate pilosus. Manus major versus extremi- 

 tatem extrorsum torta, et constricta vel utrinque excavata ; palma superne pi- 

 losa, antice spinulis duabus armata, latere externo vel inferiore tri-sulcata, sulco 

 mediano longiore postice deflexo, sulcis exterioribus antice sinibus margin- 

 alibus confluentibus ; pollex brevissimus; dactylus exterior, brevis, iatus, valde 

 curvatus. Manus minor maris robusta ; digitis compressis non biantibus, pal- 

 ma paullo brevioribus ; dactylo perlato. Pedum tertiorum quartorumque me- 

 rus compressus, sed non dilatatus, extremitate infra dente armatus. Long. 

 0.5 poll. 



Sab. — Ad insulas "Cape de Verdes ;" inter nuUiporas ad prof. 20 org. 



409. Alpheos beevipes, nov. sp. Carina frontalis et orbitae antrorsum acu- 

 tae.apicibus marginem frontalem vix superantibus. Apices orbitarum intror- 

 sum curvati. Antennae spina externa non armatae ; appendice parva, acuta, 

 quam pedunculus breviore. Maxillipedes externi parvi. Manus major cras- 

 sissima, inflata, rotiandata, laevis, extrorsum torta, antice paullo contracta 

 sed non excavata ; dactylus exterior, brevis, obtusus. Manus minor exilis, 

 digitis brevibus, nee biantibus nee dilatatis. Pedum secundorum articulus 

 carpi secundus primo duplo longior. Pedes tertii quartique breves, compress! ; 

 mero lato, infeme unidentato ; art. penultimo inferne spinuloso ; dactylo gra- 

 cile, curvato, simplici vel inermi. Pedes quinti quartis multo breviores, valde 

 graciles. Long. 0.5 poll. 



Hah. — Ad insulas Hawaienses ; inter ramos madreporamm. 



410. Alpheus coLLUMiAxus, nov. sp. Frons inter oculos carinata ; rostrum 

 breve, spiniforme : orbita margine spinula armata. Antennularum pedunculus 

 hirsutus ; articulo penultimo antepenultimo sesqui longiore. Antenna extus 

 basin spina parva armata ; appendice parva, gracili, acuta, pedunculi apicem 



[Jan. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 31 



vix attingente. Maxillipedum ext. articulus ultimus gracilis, dense setosus. 

 Manus major ei A. streptochiri similis. Manus minor maris compressa, digitis 

 non dilatatis, vix hiantibus, longitudine palmam adaequantibus. Pedes tertii 

 quartique mediocres, compressi, basi spina minuta armati ; mere lato, inferne 

 spinuloso et apicem unidentato ; articulo penultimo spinulis sex validis inferne 

 armato ; dactylo longo valde gracili, minus curvato, versus apicem dente mi- 

 nuto armato. Long. 0.75 poll. 



Hab. — Ad insulas "Bonin ;" inter corallia viventia ad prof. 1 org. 



411. Alpheus neptunus, Dana; U. S., Expl. Exped., Crust, i. 553, pi. xxxv. 

 f. 5. Maxillipedes extern! elongati, apice spinulosi. Manus majoris palma 

 spina ad basin digitorum armata. Pedum secundorum articulus carpi quar- 

 tus tertio duplo longior. Pedum posticorum dactyli bi-unguiculati. ungui- 

 culo secundo dorsali vel in facie anteriore posito. 



Hab. — Prope insulam " Ousima ;" in fundo arenoso prof. 30 org. Etiam in 

 portu '-Hong Kong." 



412. Alpheus biuxguiculatus, nov. sp. A. neptuno valde affinis, sed denti- 

 bus frontalibus brevioribus ; palma manus majoris sjiina ad basin dactyli ca- 

 rente ; pedibus posticis brevioribus, dactylis biunguiculatis, unguiculo secun- 

 do ventrali. Pedum tertii quartique paris merus inferne spinulis non armatus. 

 Long. 0.5 poll. 



Hab. — Ad insulas Hawaienses ; inter madreporas. 



413. Alpheus spiniger, nov. sp. A. neptuno affinis. Corpus robustum. 

 Dentes frontales validi, acuti ; rostrum apicem articuli pedunculi antennula- 

 rum penultimi fere attingens ; spinae orbitales rostro dimidia breviores. An- 

 tennae basi spina brevi sed gracile armatae. Antennularum squama basalis 

 acuta, brevis. Maxillipedum externorum articulus ultimus brevis, pilosus, 

 apice spinulis gracillimis armatus. Manus major crassissima, rotundata, lae- 

 vis, nuda ; palma inermi ; poUice intus bidentato ; dactylo compresso, mar- 

 gine superiore acuto. Pedum secundorum carpi articulus primus articulos 

 quatuor sequentes adequans. Pedum trium posticorum merus linearis, iner- 

 mis, nudus ; unguiculus secundus dactyli minutus ventralis, retrorsumcurva- 

 tus. Long. 1 poll. 



Hab. — Ad insulas " Amakirrima" prope "Loo Cboo." 



414. Alpheus laevis, Randall ; Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci. Philad., viii. 141. 

 Dana; U. S. Expl. Exped., Crust, i. 556, pi. xxxv. f. 8. — Ad insulam "Ha- 

 waii." 



415. Alpheus gkacilipes, nov. sp. ^A. laevi frontem affinis. Orbitae antice 

 acutae, potius quam spiniferae. Antennularum squama basalis apex spinifor- 

 mis, apicem articuli pedunculi antepeuultimi attingens ; art. penultimus ante- 

 penultimo fere duplo longior. Antennae basi spina minuta armatae ; appendice 

 pedunculum superante. Maxillipedes externi graciles, articulo ultimo quam 

 penultimus tertia parte modo longior, apice sparsim longe pilosus. Manus 

 major recta, elongata, triplo longior quam latior ; margine superiore versus ba- 

 sin dactyli canaliculato, inferiore levi. Manus minor mediocris, digitis palma 

 parce brevioribus, non hiantibus. Pedum secundorum carpi articulus secundus 

 primo vix brevior, quintus quarto longior. Pedes postici valde graciles, mero 

 angusto inermi ; articulo penultimo infra quadri-aculeato : dactylo gracili, 

 longo, unguiculo unico. Long. 0.6 poll. 



Hab. — Ad insulam " Tahiti ;" inter corallia ad prof. org. una. 



Genus Betaeus, Dana ; U. S. Expl. Exped., i. 558. — Frons superficie levis 

 ecarinata, margine recta, sinuata, vel dentata. Antennularum squama vel 

 spina basalis longissima. Manus forma similes, et plerumque subaequales. 

 Pedum secundorum carpi articulus primus praelongus. 



416. Betaeus australis, nov. sp. Corpus et abdomen gracilia, sub-compres- 

 1860.] 




32 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



sa, levia. Prons superficie aequalis, margine convexa, levis, interdum media 

 convexa. Anteunularum pedunculus robustus, cylindricns, ei antennarum 

 aeqiialis ; squama basali longa, apice spiniformi, articulo penultimo superante. 

 Antennarum appendix pedunculi apicem non attingens ; fiagellum mediocris 

 longitudinis, parte basali crassum. Maxillipedes ext. apicibus non spinosi. 

 Pedes primi paris elongati, aequales ; mero interne aspero ; carpi marginibus 

 anticis dilatatis et 4^5-dentatis, basin manus circumdantibus ; manu elongata, 

 levi, punctata, interne pauUo pilosa ; digitis gracilibus, longitudinalibus, palma 

 brevioribus, hiantibus, intus bidentatis, apicibus decussatis. Pedum secun- 

 dorum carpi articulus primus tres sequentes conjunctos adaequans. Pedes 

 postici graciles ; mero carpoque cylindricis inermibus apicibus incrassatis ; ar- 

 ticulo penultimo carpo multo graciliore, subtiliter spinuloso. Segmentum can- 

 dale elongatum. Color viridis. Long. 1 poll. 



Hah. — Portu Jacksonensi Australiae ; sublittoralis inter rapes et algas. 



417. Betaeus trispes'osus, nov. sp. Frons rostro longo aciculiformi et den- 

 tibus duobus orbitalibus acuminatis rostro dimidia brevioribus armata. An- 

 tennulae grandes ; pedunculo appendicem antennarum multo superante ; ar- 

 ticulo pedunculi penultimo ultimo fere duplo longiore et antepenultimo ae- 

 quali ; spina basali medium penultimi attingente. Antennae extus basi iner- 

 mes ; pedunculo apicem appendicis non attingente. Maxillipedum ext. articulus 

 ultimus gracilis, quam penultimus plus duplo longior, apice tenuis, breviter 

 ciliatus. Pedes antici fere aequales ; manu elongata, palma duplo longiore 

 quam altiore, pauUo compressa, laevi, margine inferiore Integra, margine su- 

 periore longitudinaliter profunde canaliculata et prope dactylum sinuata ; digi- 

 tis palma vix dimidia brevioribus, compressis, intus versus basin dentatis ; 

 dactylo lunato. Pedum secundorum carpi art. primus dimidiam longitudinis 

 carpi formans, art. secundus tertio parce longior et quinto multo brevior. Pe- 

 des postici valde graciles ; quartorum quintorumque merus nee dilatatus nee 

 interne armatus ;■ articulus penultimus apicem interne aculeo longo armatus ; 

 dactylus tertiam partem art. penultimi longitudine aequans. Segmentum cau- 

 dale elongato-subtriangulare, apice parvo truncato. Long. 0.6 poll. 



Sah. — -Portu Jacksoniensi ; inter spongias e fundo limoso prof, sex org. 



Arete,* nov. gen. Betaeo affinis, sed oculis sub carapace non celatis. Cara- 

 pax sat compressus, dorso elevato, arcuato. Rostrum breve, elongato-triangu- 

 latum, superne obtusum. Antennulae bi-tlagellatae, squamis basalibus grandi- 

 bus. Maxillipedes ext. eis Alphei fere similes. Pedes primi grandes, aequales, 

 manibus inversis depressis, dactylo exteriore. Pedes secundi breves, carpis 

 quadriarticulatis . 



418. Abete doesalis, nov. sp. Corpus lave, nitidum. Dorsum obtusum. 

 Rostrum apicem art. penultimi anteunularum pedunculi attingens ; basi 

 utrinque profunde canaliculatum. Oculi retractiles (?), pedunculis sub cara- 

 pace semper celatis. Orbita angtilo extemo spina armata. Antennae breves. 

 Antennularum pedunculi art. ultimus articulos duos praecedentes conjunctos 

 adaequans ; squama basali medium art. ultimi attingente. Antennarum ap- 

 pendix brevis, lata, pedunculum vix superans. Pedes primi paris leves ; car- 

 po crasso, margine antico^basin manus circumdante ; manu (digitis inclusis) 

 duplo longiore quam latiore, et carapace dimidia breviore ; digitis depressis, 

 non hiantibus, extus laevibus, intus denticulatis, apicibus hamatis ; dactylo 

 palma tertia parte breviore. Pedum secundorum carpi art. primus art. se- 

 quentes conjunctos adaequans ; art. quartus articulos secundum tertiumque. 

 Pedes postici inter se aequales, sat breves, leves, subcylindrici ; dactylis bi- 

 unguiculatis. Color obscure-purpureus. Long. 0.5 poll. 



Hah. — In freto "Ly-i-moon," prope insulam "Hong Kong;" inter rupee 

 sublittorales. 



* 'A/wTJt, nom. propr. 



[Jan. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 33 



419. HippoLTTE ACULEATA, M. Edw ; Hist. Nat. des Crust, ii. 380. Cancer 

 aculeatus, 0. Fabr., Fauna GroenL, No. 217. Hippolyte armata, Owen, Bee- 

 chey's Voy. Zool., p. 88, pi. xxvii. f. 2. H. cornuta, Owen, 1. c, p. 89, pi. 

 xxviii. f. 2. — Infreto "Seuiavine" et in sinu "Avatska;" e fundo limoso prof. 

 10-15 org. Etiam in Oceano Arctico ; prof. 20-30 org. 



420. Hippolyte kectikostkis, nov. sp. Robusta. Carapax cristatus, tertia 

 parte posteriore excepta ; margine antico, spina antennali et spina pterygosto- 

 miana praedito. Rostrum horizontale, apicem antennularum pedunculi attin- 

 gens, margine superiore recto, sex-dentato,* dentibus aequalibus et aequidis- 

 tantibus ; tribus posterioribus in carapace sitis ; margine inferiore autice paulo 

 dilatato et quadridentato, dentibus minutis. Antennulae appendicem anten- 

 narum vix superantes. Maxillipedes externi robusti, appendices antennarum 

 superantes ; epignatho,t neque exognatho praediti. Pedes primi graciles, manu 

 elongata, digitis gracilibus palma multo brevioribus. Pedes primi, secundi, 

 tertiique paris epipodof praediti. Abdominis dorsum leve, ecarinatum, sed 

 segmento tertio pauUo acutum. Segmentum caudale quatuor paribus acule- 

 orum dorsalium armatum. Long. 1.5 poll. 



Hab. — Porta " Hakodadi" Japoniae borealis ; in locis profundis maris. 



421. Hippolyte cristata, noT. sp. Carapax tertia parte anteriore carinatu? ; 

 margine antico spina antennali et spina pterygostomiana armato. Rostrum 

 gracile, fere horizontale, peduuculo antennularum parce brevius ; crista supe- 

 riore sex-dentata, supra oculos arcuata, dentibus duobus posterioribus in cara- 

 pace, dente posteriore aliis minore et remotiore, dente anteriore etiam minore 

 et ab apice rostri pauUo remoto ; apice subtus bidentato. Antennulae apicem 

 appendicis antennarum non superantes. Maxillipedes ext. graciles, hunc at- 

 tingentes apicem, epignatlio non vero exognatlio instructi. Pedes primi, se- 

 cundi, tertiique paris epipodo instructi. Pedum secundorum carpus septem- 

 articulatus. Abdomen ecarinatum. Tria aculeorum segmenti caudalis ultimi 

 lateralium paria. Long. 1 poll. Ab H. palpatore, brevirosti-ique |difFert max- 

 illipedibus externis brevioribus ; ab H. picta, pedibus secundo tertioque epi- 

 podo instructis ; ab H. laj/i rostro breviore. 



Hab. — Portu " San Francisco" Californiae ; fundo arenoso prof. 5-10 org. 



422. Hippolyte bkevirostris, Dana, U. S. Expl. Exped., Crust, i. 556, pi. 

 xxxvi. f. 5. — In portu " San Francisco." 



423. Hippolyte borealis, Owen ; Appendix to Ross' Voyage, p. 24, pi. i. f. 

 3. Kroyer ; Monog. Fremstilling af Hippolyte's Nordiske Arter, p. 122, pi. iii, 

 f. 74-77. — In profundis Oceani Arctici. 



424. Hippolyte polaris, Owen; App. to Ross' Voy. p. 85. Kroyer; Monog. 

 Fremst. Hippol. p. 116, pi. iii. f. 78-81. Alpheus polaris, Sabine. — In profun- 

 dis sabulosis Oceani Arctici. 



425. Hippolyte camtschatica, nov. sp. Gracilis. Carapax antice breviter 

 carinatus ; margine antico spina antennali et spina pterygostomiana minutis- 

 sima armato. Rostrum subcultratum, carapace non breviore, apicem appen- 

 dicis antennarum attingens, supeme quinque-dentatum, dentibus subaequali- 

 bus et aeqiiidistantibus, dente secundo supra oculorum basin sito ; crista infe- 

 riore paullo dilatato, quinque-dentato, dentibus primo ultimoque minutis ; apice 

 gracillimo, acutissimo. Antennarum appendices grandes. Maxillipedes ext. 

 antennarum pedunculum paullo superantes et medium appendicis attingentes, 

 epignatho non vero exognatho praediti. Pedes longi, epipodo destituti. Ab- 

 domen leve, ecarinatum ; articulo tertio modice prominente. Segmentum cau- 

 dale paribus quinque aculeorum dorsalium armatum. Long. 1 poll. Ab //. 

 sitckaensi differt rostro magis acuto et inferne magis dentato. 



* Margine cristae carapacis dorsal is semper incluso. 

 f t Epignathus et epipodus=flagelluin. 



I860.] 3 




34 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



426. HippoLYTE PANDALoiDES, nov. sp. Corpus gracile, fusiforme. Carapax 

 per dimidiam anteriorem carinatus ; margine antico spina antennali solum ar- 

 mato. Rostrum gracillimnm, fere rectum, horizontale, quam carapax mnlto 

 longius et appendices antennarum multo superans, superne 10-12 dentatum, 

 dentibus duobus posterioribus in carapace, anterioribus fere obsoletis ; crista 

 inferiore decemdentata, dentibus quam superiores majoribus. Appendices an- 

 tennarum grandes carapace non breviores, antennulas superantes. MaxiUi- 

 pedes externi brevissimi, pedunculum antennarum non superantes, epignath* 

 non vero exognatlio instructi. Pedes epipodo destituti ; secundi paris carpus 

 septem-articulatus ; posticorum merus margine inferiore spinulosus. Abdo- 

 men ecarinatum, sed segmento tertio prominens ; segmento ultimo paribus sex 

 aculeorum dorsalium armato. Color viridis. Long. 1.75 poll. 



Hab. — Sinu " Hakodadi ;" inter lapides ad prof. 2 org. 



427. HiPPOLYTB GENicuLATA, nov. sp. Maxillipcdes ext. epignatho non vero 

 exognatho instructi : pedes epipodo destituti. If. pandaloidae valde affinis, ro- 

 bustior, rostro breviore, quam carapax non longiore, superne quadridentato, in- 

 terne septem-dentato, medio paullo dilatato. Abdomen segmento tertio forte 

 geniculatum, valde prominens, compressum, cristatum. Color obscure-pnr- 

 pureus, linea dorsali alba. Long. 2 poll. 



Hab. — Cum praecedente. 



428. HiPPOLYTE GUACiLiROSTEis, uov. sp. Carapax levis, antice brevissime 

 carinatus ; margine antico spina pterygostomaica solum armato. Rostrum gra- 

 cillimnm, rectum, paullo deflexum, breve, articulum penultimum peduncnli 

 antennularum non superans, superne sex-dentatnm, dentibus aequalibus, duobus 

 posticis in carapace ; apice bi-denticulato ; margine inferiore denticulis duobus 

 approximatis apice paullo remotis armato. Maxillipedes ext. appendices anten- 

 r:arura parce superantes, exognatbo epipodoque praediti. Pedes primi secundi 

 tertiique epipodo instructi ; tertii quarti quintique paris graciles. Abdomen 

 dorso leve ecarinatum ; segmentum ultimum paribus quatuor aculeorum dorsa- 

 lium praeditum. Long. 0.75 poll. 



Hub. — Portu "Hakodadi ;" in regione lamiuariarum. 



429. HiPPOLYTE LEPTOGNATHA, nov. sp. Carapax per dimidiam anteriorem 

 carinatus et dentatus ; margine antico spina antennali et pterygostomiana 

 armato. Rostrum pedunculum antennularum superans, appendicis antennarum 

 apicem vero non attingens, horizontale ; crista superiore antrorsum Integra, re- 

 trorsum 4-5-dentata, dentibus posticis tribus vel quatuor in carapace; crista in- 

 feriore antice paullo dilatata et dentibus parvulis tribus vel quatuor instructa. 

 Appendices antennarum antennulas adaequantes vel paullo superantes. Maxil- 

 lipedes ext. exiles, pedunculum antennarum superantes, appendices vero multo 

 breviores, exognatho epignathoque instructi. Pedes Imi 2di Stiique pari* 

 epipodo praediti ; 2di paris carpus septem-articulatus, articulo tertio aliis lon- 

 giore. Abdomen dorso laeve, ecarinatum ; segmento tertio sat prominente : 

 segmento ultimo paribus quatuor aculeorum. Pallide rubra, albo variegata. 

 Long. 1 poll. 



Ilab. — Sinu " Hakodadi ;" vulgaris in fundis algoso-arenosis, prof. 2-6 org. 



430. HiPPOLYTE TCRGiDA, Krover ; Monog. Fremst. Hippol., 100, pi. ii, f. 57- 

 .j8 ; pi. iii, f- 59-63. — In Oceano Arctico ad prof. 35 org. ; et in freto " Senia- 

 vine : " fundo sabuloso, 10-20 org. 



431. HiPPOLYTE ocHOTENSis, Brandt. ; Sibir. Reise, 120, pi. v, f. 17. — In sinu 

 " Hakodadi." 



432. HiPPOLYTB SPINA, White; Brit. Mus. Cat. Crust., 1847, p. 76. Bell: 

 Brit. Crust. 284. H. sowerbei, Lam'k ; Kroyer ; Monog. Fremst. Hippol., 90, pi. 

 ji^ f. 45-54. — In freto "Seniavine;" (prope fretum Beringianum ;) in fundi? 

 limosis prof. 10-20 org. ^ 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 35 



433. HippoLYTE GiBBA, Krojcr ; Monog. Fremst. Hippol. 80, pi. i, f. 30, 31, 

 et pi. ii, f. 32-37. — In freto "Seniavine" et in Oceano Arctico ; fundis limosis 

 et arenosis prof. 20-30 org. 



434. HipPOLTTE PECTiNiFEKA, Dov. sp. Corpus brevc, altum. Carapax lamina 

 dentata antrorsum latescente cristatus ; regione orbitali utrinque spinis tribus 

 in serie longitudinali instructa ; margine antico infra oculum spinis duabus 

 (antennali et pterygostcmiana forti) armato. Rostrum latissimum, suborbicu- 

 latum, (ei Rhynchocycli simili,) antennularum pedunculum superans, superne 

 25-dentatum, dentibus posterioribus majoribus, dente postico ad tertiam partem 

 anteriorem carapacis posito ; margine inferiore bidentato, dentibus antrorsnm 

 sitis et quam superiores majoribus. Antennularum squamae basales validae 

 acutae ab pedunculo divergentes ; flagella brevia subaequalia. Antennae cor- 

 pore breviores; appendice ovata, antrorsum acuta, rostrum superante. Max 

 ext. exognatho epignathoque instructi. Pedes toti (secundis exclusis) breves 

 et robusti ; primi secundi tertiique paris epipodo instructi; dactyli pedum pos- 

 ticorum eis //. aculeatae similes. Epimera abdominis segmentis 1-6 dentibus 

 spinisve 4-5 pectinata, spina anteriore vulgo longiore. Segmentum caudale 

 paribus tribus aculeorum dorsalium munitum. Color pallide purpureas, margine 

 carapacis antico et apicibus digitorum albis. Long. 0.75 poll. 



Hah. — Sinu " Hakodadi ;" f. conchoso org. 8. 



435. HippoLYTE Fabricii, Kroyer ; Monog. Fremst. Hippol. p. 69, pi. i, f. 12- 

 20. — In sinu " Avatska." 



ViRBius,* nov. gen. Hippolytae affinis. Dorsum carapacis rostrique ecari- 

 natum. Mandibulae non palpigerae. Maxillipedes externi breves, exognatho 

 non vero epignatbo instructi. Pedes epipodo destituti. Pedum primi paris 

 carpus antice excavatus ; secundi paris carpus tri-articulatus. Hippoh/te acu- 

 minata, viridis, smaragdina, obliquimana, exilirostrata, varians et Prideauxiana ad 

 hoc genus pertinent. 



436. ViRBics AUSTRALiENSis, noT. sp. Carapax levis, spina orbitali instructiis. 

 spina antennali parvula, pterygostomiana nulla. Rostrum carapace vix brevius. 

 superne laeve, basi horizontaliter latiuscum, apice acutum, margine inferiore cris- 

 tatum et sexdentatum. Antennulae breves, pedunculo quam rostrum dimidia 

 breviori, flagello interno externo duplo longiore. Antennarum appendices 

 grandes, oblongae, rostrum superantes, intus apicem antrorsum dilatata ; pe- 

 dunculus extus spina armatus ad basin appendicis. Maxillipedes ext. apicem 

 antennarum pedunculi non attigentes ; articulo ultimo valde compresso, non 

 duplo longiore quam latiore et quam art. penultimus non longiore. Pedes 

 secundi apicem antennarum pedunculi non attingentes. Pedes postici parvi, 

 articulo penultimo subtus spinalis armato ; dactylo intus multi-unguiculato. 

 Abdomen laeve forte geniciilatum. Segmentum caudale paribus duobus acule- 

 orum dorsalium munitum. Color viridis. Long. 1.5 poll. 



Hab. — In portu Jacksoniensi Australiae ; inter algas ad prof. org. 2. 



437. ViRBins ACOTUS, nov. sp. Carapax spina supra-orbitali et antennali 

 armatus ; angulo antero-inferiore acuto. Rostrum gracillimum, peduiiculnm 

 antennularum superans, appendices antennarum vero brevius, superne in medio 

 unidentatum ; crista inferiore prope apicem quadiidentata. Max. ext. breves, 

 versus basin lati. Pedum secundorum carpi articuli subaequales, ultimus paullo 

 longior. Pedum posticorum dactyli intus breviter spinosi, apice bi-unguiculati. 

 Abdomen ecarinatum geniculatum, segmento tertio acute prominens. Appen- 

 dices caudales parvi. Segmentum caudale paribus quatuor aculeorum plerum- 

 que munitum, tribus approximatis, pari posteriore remoto. Color purpureus, 

 variegatus. Long. 0.5 poll. 



JIab. — Ad insulam " Loo Choo ;" littoralis in rupibus algosis. 



* Virbina, Hippoljti filius. 

 I860.] 




36 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



438. ViRBiDS Kraussianus, noT. sp. Carapax latiuscnlus, spina supra- 

 orbital! et antennali armatus ; spina pterygostomiana nulla. Rostrum gracile, 

 pedunculum antennularum pauUo longius, apicem appendicium antennarumvero 

 non attingens, superne basi bidentatum, apice tridentatem, margine inferiore 

 quadridentatum. Flagella antennularum subaequalia, appendices ant. vix 

 superantia. Max. ext. articulus ultimus penultimo fere duplo longior. Abdo- 

 men ecarinatum, forte geniculatum ; segmentis caudalis aculeorum paribus 

 duobus. Long. o.7 poll. 



Hab. — In sinu " Simon's Bay," props Promontorium Bonae Spei. 



439. ViRBius ACUMiNATUS. Hippolyte acuminata, Dana; U. S. Expl. Exped., 

 Crust., i. 562, pi. xxx, f. 1. — In Oceano Atlantico. 



Genus Rhynchocinetes, M. Edw. Maxillipedes externi exognatho epignathoqne 

 instructi ; pedes primi, secundi, tertii, quartique paris epipodo praediti. 



440. Rhynchocinetes rugulosus, nov. sp. R. typo Chilensi valde afBnis, sed 

 superficie carapacis transversim striolata vel rugulosa, rugis quam in R. typo 

 magis conspicuis et crassioribus. Rostrum parte anteriore marginis superiorid 

 tridentatum, subtus 12-dentatum. Digiti pedum primi paris superne nudi. . 

 Long. 2 poll. 



Jlab. — In portu Jacksoniensi Australiae ; sublittoralis inter rupes. 



Ogykis*, nov. gen. Carapax parce cristatus, non rostratus. Oculi longis- 

 simi, pedunculos antennarum superantes, pediculis gracillimis. Antennulae 

 bi-flagellatae, pedunculo exius processu spiniformi ad basin piaedito. Anten- 

 narum appendix parvus, pedunculo multo brevior. Mandibulae graciles, pro- 

 funde bipartitae, palpo laminato, biarticulato instructae. Maxillipedes secundi 

 non pediformes ; externi grandes, longi, exognatho gracili instructi; articulo 

 endognathi ultimo brevi, pilis phimosis longis vestito. Pedes exopodo des- 

 tituti ; primi secundique paris chelati; carpus secundi paris triarticulatus. 

 Pedes 3tii 4ti 5tique paris inter se dissimiles, non chelati. Abdomen inerme, 

 lamellis caudalibus brevibus, externis angustis. 



441. Ogyris okientalis, nov. sp. Carapax pubescens, crista dorsali laevissima, 

 dentibus 4 — 5 minutis antrorsum armata. Orbita angulo externo acuta vel 

 spina armata. Oculi carapace non dimidia breviores, pedunculos antennula- 

 rum superantes, pediculis pubescentibus basi valde incrassatis. Antennulae 

 carapace non longiores, flagellis gracilibus, longitudine aequalibus, externo 

 verus vasin paullo incrassato. Antennae corpore tertia parte breviores, ap- 

 pendice parvo subovali. Maxillipedes externi extremitates antennularum fere 

 attingentes, ad commissuram ultiman geniculati. Pedes sex postici pilosi, 

 tertii quartique paris crassi, tertii breviores, quinti longi filiformes. Abdomen 

 dorso laeve convexum, extremitate segmenti ultimi laie rotundata, laminis 

 caudalibus exterioribus incrassatis, extrorsum curfatis, acutis. Long. 1 poll. 



Hah. — In mari Sinensi, et in sinu "Kagosima ;" in fundis arenosis 5 — 25 org. 

 prof. 



442. Pandalus goniorus, nov. sp. Corpus gracile nudum. Rostrum tenue, 

 carapace tertia parte longius, superne 9-dentatum, dentibus sparsis, tribus pos- 

 terioribus in carapace sitis, duobus posticis minoribus approximatis et ab aliis 

 magis remotis ; marginis superioris parte dimidia anteriore edentulo ; apice 

 bifurcate vel bidentato, dente superiore minore; margine inferiore T-dentato. 

 Antennulae rostro non breviores. Antennarum appendices carapacis longitu- 

 dine. Pedes primi omnino graciles, pedunculum antennarum superantes. Pe- 

 dum posticorum dactyli longiores. Abdomen segmento tertio geniculatum, 

 plus minusve acute compresso, prominente, vix vero dentato. Long. 2 poll. P. 

 annulicorni afBnis, rostro longiore, et abdominis segmenti tertii dorso compresso. 



* ^'dyvpK, nomeu insulae maris Indici. 



[Jan. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 37 



Hub. — In sinu " Avatska" Kamtschatkae ; in fundo limoso prof. 10 org. vul- 

 garis. 



443. Pandalus prensou, nov. sp. Gracilis. Rostrum thorace vix brevius, 

 apicera antennarum appendicium non attingens ; margine superiore 14- dentate, 

 (dentibus 6 posticis in carapace,) tertia parte versus apicem edentulo ; apice 

 tridentato ; margine inferiore quinque-dentato.* Antennula, roslro fere duplo 

 longiores. Maxillipedes externi apicem antennarum appendicium fere attin- 

 gentes, esognatho destituti. Pedes primi omnino graciies. Pedes tertii ma- 

 jores, subprehensiles ; articulo penultimo plus minusve dilatato, subcurvato, 

 postice convexo, palma spinulosa, dactjlo longo, ad palmam retractili. Pedes 

 quarti quintique paris tertiis minores, dactylis brevibus. Abdomen dorso laeve, 

 rotundatum ; segmento penultimo carapace demidia breviore ; segmento ultimo 

 quinque aculeorum instructo paribus. Subtranslucidus, pallide coccineo-macu- 

 latus. Long. 2 poll. 



Mab. — Sinu " Hakodadi;" fundo conchoso, prof. 8 org. 



444. Pandalus robustus, nov. sp. Corpus breve robustum. Rostrum carapacis 



8+11 



longitudine, appendices antennarum paullo superans; dentibus 1-3 arma- 



7 

 turn, margine superiore versus apicem edentulum. Antennulae rostro vix longio- 

 res. Maxillipedes ext. apicem appendicium ant. attingentes ; exognatho destituti. 

 Pedes primi e basi graciies. Pedum tertiorum articulus penultimus rectus, super- 

 ficie asper; dactylus robustus et quam iste pedum quartorum quintorumque 

 multo longior. Abdomen dorso laeve, rotundatum ; segmento sexto perbrevi, 

 longitudine carapacis tertiae partis ; segmento caudali dorso pubescente, 

 quinque aculeorum armato paribus. Long. 2 poll. 

 Hab. — Sinu "Hakodadi," in profundis. 



443. Pandalus gracilis, nov. sp. Corpus gracile. Rostrum carapace lon- 



7-flO 



gius, appendices antennarum superans, et dentibus \-3 armatum, margi- 



8 

 nis superioris tertia parte anteriore edentulum. Antennulae rostro parum lon- 

 giores. Maxillipedes ext. medium appendicium antennarum vix superantes ; 

 exognatho destituti. Pedum tertiorum articulus penultimus gracilis, laevis, 

 sparsim pilosus, margine inferiore sparsim aculeatus ; dactylus quam iste quarti 

 quintique paris parum longior. Pedes quarti quintique graciliores, mero sub- 

 tus spinuloso. Abdomen dorsi medio prominens, sed rotundatum; segmento 

 sexto carapace plus dimidia breviore ; ultimo quinque aculeorum armato paribus. 

 Long. L25 poll. 



Jlab. — Sinu "Hakodadi." 



446. Pandalus escatilis, nov. sp. Corpus pubescens coccineo-variegatum. 

 Carapax dimidia anteriore carinatus, margine aniico spina antennali, et ptery- 

 gostomiana prope antennae insertionem sita armatus. Rostrum longum gra- 

 cile, horizontale vel resimum, carapace multo longior, superne regulariter 60- 

 denticulatum, (dente postico ad quintain anteriorem long, carap. sito.) inferne 

 serratum, dentibus quam superiores minoribus. Maxillipedes externi exognatho 

 instruct!; endogna.tho ei P. annuUcornis simili. Pedes gracillimi ; primi paris 

 apicem rostri attingentes, secundi paris eum maxillipedum externorum. Pedes 

 3tii 4li 5tique paris rostrum multo superantes; mero subtus spinis sparsis 

 armato; articulo antepenultimo quam merus multo graciliore. Long. 2. .5 poll. 

 P. narwal affinis, sed ditfert rostro magis subtiliter et regulariter serrata, et 

 pedibus posticis spinosis. A P. priste differt in maxillipedibus externis. 



Ilab. — Prope insulam Madeirae ; in profundis. 



6+8 , 

 * En formula talis dentitionis, —i: — 1-3. 



I860.] 




38 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



447. Pandalus leptokhynchps, nov. sp. Corpus gracillimum. Carapax vix 

 eristatus, spina una dorsali in regione gastrica armatus ; margine antico spina 

 supra-orbitali, antennali etpterygostomianainstructo. Rostrum tenuissimum, 

 fere filiforme, carapace non brevius, superne dente unico antrorsum porrecto 

 versus basin ai-matum, subtus dentibus minutis duobus, uno mediano, altero 

 versus apicem acutum sito. Antennularum pedunculus gracillimus, rostro 

 quarta parte breviore ; squama basali lata, apice externo spiniformi ; flagelluna 

 pedunculo non longius. Antennarum appendices rostro non breviores. Pe- 

 des exiles ; tertii quarti quintique paris subprehensiles ; — dactylo ad latus pos- 

 ticum art. penultimi retractili. Abdomen forte geniculatum, segmento tertio 

 carina perobtusa armato ; segmento sexto praelongo. Subpellucidus, lineis 

 flavis, punctisque nigris ornatus. Long. 1 poll. 



Hab. — Portu Jacksoniensi Australiae ; ad littora arenosa et algosa. 



448. PoNTONiA MACCLATA, nov. sp. Foeminae corpus sat gracile. Carapax 

 inermis. Rostrum art. penultimum antennularum pedunculi attingens, gra- 

 cile, superne depressum, subtus acute cristatum, apice truncatum, marginibus 

 edentulis. Oculi grandiores. Antennularum flagellum pedunculo brevius 

 sed appendicem antennarum multo superans. Antennae corpore dimidia 

 breviores, appendice carapace plus dimidia breviores, sed pedunculum antennu- 

 larum pauUo superantes, apice rotundato-obtusse. Max. externorum art. ante- 

 penultimus gracilior. Pedum secundorum manus minor (?) gracilis, digitis 

 intus edentulis ; (manus altera deest.) Pedum 3 posticorum dactyli uncinati, 

 intus dente armati. Abdomen spinis nuUis ad basin segmenti caudalis arma- 

 tum. Pellucida, maculis minutis purpureis conspersa. Long. 0.75 poll. A 

 P. tridacnae differt forma elongata, rostro graciliore, etc. 



Hah. — Ad insulas "Benin ;" in Tridacnis. 



449. CoRALLiocARis* GHAMiNEA. Oedlpus gramifieus, Dana ; U. S. Expl. Exp., 

 Crust, i. 574, pi. xxxvii. f. 3. — Ad insulam "Hong Kong;" in madreporis. 



450. CoEALLiocAKis SDPERBA. Oedipus superbus, Dana; U. S. Expl. Exped., 

 Crust, i. 573, pi. xxxvii. f. 2. — Ad insulam "Tahiti;" in corallis. 



451. CoRALLiocAEis LAMELLiRosTRis, uov. sp. Corpus depressum. Rostruna 

 longum, pedunculum antennularum superans sed apicem appendicis antenna- 

 rum non attingens, basi angustum ; crista superiore dilatata, sexdentata, 

 dente postico supra oculos sito ; apice acuminato ; margine inferiore apicem 

 versus etiam dilatato, 4-5-dentic-ulato. Antennulae appendices antennarum 

 non superantes. Antennae corpore dimidia longiores. Max. externi planati 

 sed sat angusti. Pedes primi apicem appendicium ant. attingentes, manibus 

 vix hirsutis. Pedes secundi inaequales, manu majore (foeminae) valde gra- 

 cili, digitis parvis, palma dimidia brevioribus, dactylo distorto non dilatato. 

 Pedum posticorum dactyli eis C. macrophtkalmae similes, vix setosi. Abdo- 

 men segmento tertio prominens. Color viridis ; carapax longitudinaliter, ab- 

 domenque transverse rubro-fasciata. Long. 0.75 poll. 



Hub. — Ad insulam " Loo Choo ;" inter corallia ad prof. 2. org. 



452. Harpilius depkessus, nov. sp. Corpus late depressum. Carapax spi- 

 na hepatica armatus. Oculi grandes, et, lateraliter porrecti, margines carapa- 

 cis multo superantes. Rostrum longum, apicem antennarum appendicium 

 fere attingens, ci-ista inferiore parce dilatata, septem-dentata, dente postico 

 parum post oculos sito ; crista inferiore versus apicem valde dilatata, quadri- 

 dentata, dentibus validis. Antennulae breviores, appendicem antennarum ap- 

 rum superantes. Antennae corpore non longiores. Maxillipedes externi valde 

 graciles, articulis ultimo penultimoque conjunctis antepenultimo adequanti- 



* Etym. KcpaKKtov, corallium ; K*pT;, squilla. Nomen Oedipus Danae praeoc- 

 cupatur. 



[Jan. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 39 



bus, hoc in foeminis quam in maribus multo latiore. Pedes secundi grandes, 

 laeves ; ischii, men, carpique apicibus dentibus splniformibus armatis ; manu 

 carapace duplo longiore, digitis palma dimidia brevioribus, intus forte 2-3-den- 

 tatis. Pedes postici robusti, dactylis curvatis apice fere obtusis. Abdomen 

 gracile ; segmento ultimo acuto, pari unico aculeorum dorsalium instructo. 

 Long. 0.7 poU. 



Hab. — Ad insulam "Hawaii;" inter madreporas. 



453. Anchistia Danae, nov. sp. Corpus breve robiistum. Carapax satlatus, 

 spina hepatica armatus ; margine antico spina supra-orbitali et antennali in- 

 structo. Rostrum parce dilatatum, pedunculum anteanularum non attingens, 

 dentibus superne septem, subtus tribus armatum. Oculi grandes, lateraliter 

 margines carapacis multo superantes. Antennulae appendices antennarum su- 

 perautes ; fiagello robusto quam fiagellum tenue longiore, extremitate bifido. 

 Appendices ant. apice sat latae. Mandibularum processus molaris ramus 

 superior apice triSdus, ramus alter 5-6-dentatus, dentibus aliquibus scalprifor- 

 mibus. Pedes primi carpum secundorum superantes. Pedes postici gracillimi. 

 Segraentum caudale apice aculeis duobus longis instructum. Long, 0.5 poll. 



Hah. — Ins. " Tahiti ; " in corrallis. 



454. Anchistia brachiata, nov. sp, Carapax spina hepatica et antennali 

 armatus: spina supra-orbitali nulla. Rostrum gracile, pauUo resimum, appen- 

 dices antennarum non superantes, superne dentibus 5-j- armatum, dente 

 secundo supra oculos sito, subtus dentibus 2-\- (apice in sp. nostro fracto). Oculi 

 grandes. Antennarum appendices longae, angustae, extrorsum curvautes, car- 

 apace longiores. Pedes secundi inaequales ; carpus sinistri appendices ant. 

 superans ; carpo meroque basi angustatis, versus apicera incrassatis ; mero 

 apice inferiore uni-spinoso ; carpo apicem superne bi-spinosa subtus uni-spinosa ; 

 manu incrassata quam carpus plus duplo longiore ; digitis quam palma non 

 dimidia parte brevioribus, pauUo contortis, intus singulo dentibus duobus 

 parvis acutisque armatis ; dactylo margine superiore extus dilatato. Pes 

 secundi paris dexter minor, digitis longioribus compressis nee distortis nee 

 dentatis. Abdominis segmentum penultimum breve. Long. 0.8 poll. 



Hab. — Porta " Llojd " ad insulas •' Bonin." 



455. Anchistia grandis, nov. sp. A. ensifronti aflSnis, major. Rostrum an- 

 gustius et appendices ant. non superans, margine superiore basi non concavo. 

 septem-dentato, dente postico aliis paullo remoto, dente antico juxta apicem 

 sito. Antennularum pedunculi art. penultimus interne extusque paullo dilata- 

 tus. Appendices antennarum carapace non breviores, angustae, minuentes sed 

 apice truncatae. Pedes secundi paris corpore longiores ; mero apicem append. 

 ant. atlingente, subtus spina armato ; carpoad apicem intus uni-spinoso; manu 

 robusta, carpo fere triple longiore; digitis palma dimidia brevioribus, medio 

 hiantibus. Pedes quarti apicem appendicium antennarum attingentes. Long. 

 1.2 poll. 



Hab. — Ad insulam " Ousima." 



Urocaris,'^ nov. gen. Corpus gracile, corapressum : abdomen longum, seg- 

 mento penultimo praecipue elongato. Rostrum superne cristatum, dentatum, 

 subtus rectum edentnlum. Oculoram pedunculi longiores. Antennulae eis 

 Palaemonis similes. Mandibulae non palpigerae. Maxillipedes externi pedesque 

 cum genere Pctlaemone conveniunt. — Typus U. lovgicaitdata in littoribus Carolin- 

 ensibus habitans, rostro brevi, crista superiore supra oculos valde dilatata. 

 arcuata, octodentata; dactylis pedum posticorum biunguiculatis ; abdomine 

 quinquies longiore quam carapax, segmento tertio valde tumido, segmentC) 

 penultimo gracile carapace non breviore. 



456. Urocaris longipes, nov. sp. Carapax spina hepatica et antennali 

 armatus. Rostrum gracilp, rectum, minuens, appendicium antennarum apicem 

 non attingens, crista superiore minus dilatata, septem-dentata, dente postico 



*Etym. ivm, cauda; Ka.fi;^ squilia. 



I860.] 




40 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OE 



aliis pauUo remotiore, denticulo minuto inter denies sextum et septimum atque 

 uno inter dentem septimum et apicem ; margine inferiore integro non ciliato. 

 Antennularum fiagellum crassum breve, tertia parte extrema a fiagello tenui sep- 

 aratum, lioc corpora non dimidia breviore ; fiagellum internum externo tenui 

 brevius. Antennarum appendices mediocres. Pes secundi paris sinister long- 

 issimus, inermis ; ischii apice apicem appendicium ant. fere attingente; mero 

 carpo loagiore; manu cyliadrica merum carpumque conjunctos adequaate, dig- 

 itis brevibus, palmae long, quartam partem vix aequanlibus. Pedes postici 

 gracillimi, dactylis simplicibus. Abdominis segmentum penultimum minus 

 elongatum. Pellucida, lineis duabus coccineis oruata, torporis facie inferiore 

 etiam coccinea, manu majore pallide rubra. Long, corporis, 0.65 ; pedis gran- 

 dis, 0.7 poll. 

 Hab. — Prope insulam " Ousima; " fuado arenoso, prof. 20 org. 



457. Palaemonella tencipes, Dana; U. S. Expl. Exped., Crust., i. 582; pi. 

 xxxviii. f. 3. — Ad insulam " Ousima ; " inter algas reticulatas in sinibus are- 

 nosis minus profundis. 



Genus Leander, Desmarest, Ann. Soc. Entom. de France, vii. 87. Carapax 

 spina antennali et spina branchios-tegiana armatus; spina bepataca nulla. 

 Species plerumque maricolae. Typus Palaemon natator, M. Edw. 



458. Leander natator. Palaemon natator, M. Edw.; Hist. Nat. des Crust. 

 ii. 393. Dana; loc. cit., i. 588; pi. xxxviii, f. 11. — In Oceano Atlantico, lat. 

 bor. 30° — 35°, etc.; vulgaris in Sargasso. 



459. Leander debilis. Palaemon debilis, Dana ; U. S. Expl. Exped., Crust., 

 i. 585 ; pi. xxxviii, f. 0, 7. — Ad insulas Hawainenses et ad '' Loo Choo ; " in 

 littoribus arenosis. 



460. Leander longicarpcs, nov. sp. Kostrum longum, carapace paullo lon- 

 gius et appendices ant. multo superans, gracile, reflexum, superne, ad basin 

 convexumetquinquedentatum, (dente secundo supra oculos sito.) dimidia versus 

 apicem edentulum; crista inferiore paullo dilatataet 4- vel 5-dentata. Anten- 

 nularum flagella duo externa parce conjuncta. Max. ext. gracillimi, in adultis 

 jjedunculum antennarum superantes. Pedes tenues ; primi paris apicem ap- 

 pendicium ant. non atlingentes ; secundi paris hunc superantes apicem sed 

 carpo longo cum non aitingente, manu debili. carpo dimidia breviore. Pedes 

 postici nudi. Segmentum abdominis penultimum lamellarum lateralium fere 

 longitudine. Long. 1.5 poll. P. debili afiinis, sed dentibus rostri inferioribus 

 paucioribus et pedibus secundi paris longioribus. 



* Hab. — Portu " Hong Kong " Sinensi. 



46L Leander paucidens. Palaemon paiicidens, De Haan ; Fauna Japonica, 

 Crust., 170, pi. xlv, f. 11. Rostrum in sp. nostris superne 5-6 dentatum, prope 

 apicem non edentulum. 



Hab. — Prope urbem Japonicam " Simoda ; " in aquis dulcibus fluvii, mari 

 non remolis. 



462. Leander PACiFicus, nov. sp. Corpus robustura. Rostrum carapace non 

 brevius, antennarum appendices superans : crista superiore dentata, (dente 

 tertio vel quarto supra oculos sito,) versus apicem edentula; apice tridentato : 

 crista inferiore dilatala, 4- vel 5-deatata, dentibus fortibns, dente anteriore 

 apice remoto. Antennularum flagella duo externa parce conjuncta, fiagello 

 extrerao crasso, pedunculo paullo longiore et margine interno valide serrato. 

 Maxillipedes ext. rairjuiscentes, antennarum pedunculum parce superantes. 

 Pedes primi paris apicem antennularum appendicium attingentes ; secundi paris 

 sat robusti, bunc superantes apicem, manu paullo incrassata, digitis palma 

 brevioribus ; pedes postici robustiores, fere nudi et inermes, quinti paris anten- 

 narum pedunculum parum superantes. Color pallide viridescens, corpore rubro- 

 vel olivaceo-lineato. Long. 2.5 poll. 



Hab. — In Oceano Pacifico vulgaris, littoralis in rupium fossis ; — ad insulas 

 " Hong Kong" et " Hawaii," etiam in portu " Simoda." 



[Jan. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 41 



463. Leander serrifer, dot. sp. Rostrum appendices antennarum non su- 

 perans, crista superiore fere recta, novem-dentata. dentibus posterioribus 1 et 2 

 inter se et ab aliis pauUo remotioribus, dente tertio vel quarto supra oculos sito, 

 dente anteriore ab apice paullo remoto, (demium duorum spatio); apice acuto 

 superne bi-denticulato ; crista inferiore dilatata, maxima tridentata. Antennu- 

 larum flagella duo externa parce conjuncta. Pedes primi paris apicem appen- 

 dicium ant. attingentes, ischio meroque quafn carpus robusrioribus ; secundi 

 paris longi, sat robusti, carpo appendicium ant. apicem attingente, et quam 

 manus non breviore, manu elougata, quater longiore quam latiore, digitispalma 

 tertii parte brevioribus. Pedes postici mediocres. Segmentum abdominis pe- 

 nultiraum lamellis exterioribus multo brevius. Long., 1.75 poll. 



Hab. — Portu " Hong Kong," et sinibus insulae " Ousima; " littoralis. 



464. Leander intermedius, nov. sp. Spina branchiostegiana longa, acutis- 

 sima, retrorsum sita, margine paullo remota, ut facile pro hepatica haberetur. 

 Rostrum tenue, appendices ant. superans, reflexura, superne septem-dentatum, 

 (dente tertio supra oculos.) subtus quadridentatum ; apice bifido vel bidentato. 

 Oculigrandes. Antennulae corpore non breviores ; flagellis duobus externis per 

 dimidiam longitudinis flagelli crassi conjunctis. Maxillipedes externi peduncu- 

 lum antennarum parce superantes. Pedes secundi paris appendices ant. parum 

 superantes ; manu paullo incrassata carpo vix loogiore, digitis palmae longitu- 

 dine. Pede^ postici mediocres, aculeis sparsim armati ; dactylis longioribus. 

 Pellucidus, flavo-lineatus, et intendum sparsim nigro-punctatis. Long., 1 poll. 



Hab. — In portu Jacksoniensi Australiae ; fuudis algoso-areaosis prof.- 2 org. 



Genus Palaemon, Fabr. Carapax spina hepatica armatus. Species omnes 

 fluvicolae. 



465. Palaemox asper, nov. sp. Descr. maris adulti. Carapax spinulis vel 

 granulis acutis corneis plus minusve exasperatus. Rostrum apicem appendi- 

 cium antennarum fere attingens ; crista dorsali dilatata, recta vel parce convexa, 

 12- vel 14-dentata, dente posteriore paullo remotiore, dente quarto supra oculos 

 sito; criita inferiore 3- vel 4-dentata. Pedes secundi paris corpore non bre- 

 viores, cylindrici, instar carapacis exasperati, interdum breviter pubescentes ; 

 raero apicem antennarum appendicium superante; carpo palma manus parce 

 longiore ; digitis palma tertia parte brevioribus, non hinntibus, interdum dense 

 hirsutis, intus prope basin dentibus 1-2 armatis ; pollice intus lobo marginis 

 crenulato ad basin praedito. Pedes postici sat longi, extremitates versus 

 graciles, minuiscentes ; dactylis tertiam partem long, penultimi adaequantibus. 

 Pedes ultimi paris appendices ant. superantes. Segmentum abdominis ultimum 

 apice leviter tridentatum, dente mediano prominentiore, utrinque aculeis duobus 

 margine instructo, aculeo interno longiore. Color olivaceus vel glaucus, vi- 

 ridescens. Long, corporis 5 poll. Juniores laeves, glabri, subpellucidi. A P. 

 lanceifronti differt crista rostri superiore minus expansa ; P. ornato, rostro magis 

 dentato, etc. 



Hab. — In fluvii et rivulis Sinenses prope urbem " Canton." 



466. Palaemon BONiNENSis, nov. sp. Carapax laevis. Rostrum appendicibus 

 ant. brevius, crista superiore supra oculos plus minusve convexa, versus apicem 

 parce concava, dentibus 11 ad 13 arniata aequalibus et aequidistantibus, dente 

 sexto supra oculos sito ; crista inferiore tridentata. Antennularum flagellum 

 internum breve, externo dimidia fere brevius. Pedes robusti ; secundi paris 

 subcylindrici, granulati sed quam in multis speciebus leviores ; carpo manu 

 plus dimidia breviore ; digitis palma tertia parte brevioribus, granulatis, non 

 pubescentibus, sparsim pilosis, intus basi 2- vel 3-dentatis, dentibus interdum 

 fere obsoletis. Pedes postici breves crassi, subtiliter et breviter spinulosi ; 

 dactylis robustis brevioribus. Pedes quinti paris mediam appendicium ant. 

 attingentes. Color obscure viridis ; pedum ambulatoriorum apices flavi. Long, 

 corporis 4 ; pedum secuadorura 3 poll. 



Hab. — Insulis " Bonin ; " in rivulis montanis. 



I860.] 




42 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



467. Thalassocaris* lccida. Regulus lucidus, Dana ; U. S. Expl. Exped., 

 Crust., i. 598; p!. xxxix., f. 5. — In Oceano Pacifico ; lat. bor. 27^°. long., orient. 

 138^°. 



CAULURDSjf nov. gen. Carapax latiusculus, dorso sutura cervicali notatus. 

 Rostrum breve. Oculi grandes. Antennularum pedunculus longus, gracilis, 

 squama basali nulla. Antennarum appendix fere linearis, basi angusta, apice 

 truncata. Maxillipedes secundi paris non pediformes, tertii paris pediformes, 

 robusti, cylindrici, exognatho praediti. Pedes exopodo instructi ; primi secuu- 

 dique paris chelati ; secundi graciliores loogi; reliqui simplices. Abdomen 

 dorso inerme ; segmenlo sexto praelongo, gracillimo. Oplophoro ditfert ab- 

 domine et appendice antennarum inermibus, segmento penultimo praelongo, 

 etc. 



468. Caulcrus pelagicus, nov. sp. Rostrum spiniforme vel dentiforme, 

 oculis plus dimidia brevius. Regio gastrica dente mediano erecto prope basin 

 rostri armata. Margo carapacis anterior dente praeorbitali, spina aotennali 

 parvula et spina pterygostomiana armatus. Antennularum pedunculus cara- 

 pace non brevior, articulo antepenultimo articulos penultimum et ultimum junc- 

 tos superaute. Antennarum pedunculus longissimus filiformis, ei antennularum 

 multo gracilior ; appendix carapacis longitudine et sexies longior quam latior, 

 apice quam basis latiore, rotundato-truncato, extus spina brevi armato ; mar- 

 gine appendicis interno sparsirn fimbriato paribus 15 setarum plumosarum 

 gracilibus. Pedes secundi gracillimi prope manum constricti. Manus primi 

 secuudique paris breves. Abdominis segmentum sestum quatuor praecedentes 

 junctos fere superans, gracillimum, subcjiindricum ; lamellae caudales seg- 

 mento sexto tertia parte breviores. Translucidus, visceribus coccineis. Long. 

 0.25 poll. 



Hab. — In Oceano Pacifico, lat. bor., 34°, long, orient. 126°; nocte repertus. 



Leptochela,J nov. gen. Carapax laevis, vix cristatus, latere margineqae 

 spinis destitutus. Rostrum brevissimum, spiniforme. Antennulae bi-flagel- 

 latae. Mandibulae inflexae, late compressae, palpo brevi, ovato, uoi-articulato 

 praeditae. JIaxillipedes secundi non pediformes endognathi an. ultimo spinis 

 longis armato. Maxillipedes tertii exognatho instructi. Pedes toti expodo 

 instructi ; primi secundique paris compressi, chelati, manu gracili, digitis longis 

 parallelis. Pedes postici breves. Abdomen segmenti autepenultimi angulo 

 dorsali postico plus minusve geniculatum vel abruptum ; appendicibus ventra- 

 libus primi paris birameis. Pasiphaeae afiSnis, mandibulis vero palpigeris, 

 raaxillipedibus secundis non pediformibus. 



469. Leptochela gracilis, nov. sp. Corpus compressum. Carapax glaber, 

 antrorsum acute carinatum, carina laevi. Rostrum acutum, oculis brevius. 

 Oculi breves, grandiores, globosi. Antennulae oblique compressae, corpore 

 dimidia breviores, flagello superiore longiore. Antennae vix antennulis longiores, 

 appendice minore acuto-triangulari, gracili, sed pedunculos antennularum ali- 

 quantum superante. Mandibularum corona margine interno dentata, medio 

 profunde fissa. Maxillipedes ext. graciles, apicem appendicium ant. attin- 

 gentes, exognatho endognathi art. antepenultimum superante. Pedum exo- 

 podi longiores, primi secundique paris apicem ischii atticgentes, posticorum 

 medium meri. Pedes primi secundique paris appendices ant. superantes ; 

 carpo palma manus breviore ; manu ad basin digitorum constricta, digitis 

 palma longioribus. Pedes postici compressi, minuiscentes, plus minusve late- 

 raliter porrecti, quam secundi paris plus dimidia breviores ; ischio brevissimo, 

 subtua spina armato; dactylo hirsuto, apice rotundato inermi. Abdomen 

 compressum antrorsum ecarinatum, segmento antepenultimo acute carinato, 



* Etym. ^a.\a.<r(T(i mare ; mfi^, squilla. Regulus nomen Danae praeoccupatum. 

 f Etym. KAvKo;, caulis, tu^a cauda. 



X Etym. xe-TTOf, tener ; ;;(^n\>t. chela. 



[Jan. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 43 



angulo superiore postico spina armato ; segmento ultimo canaliculato, apice 

 aculeis duobus longis armato, aliis brevioribus interjacentibus. Lamella cau- 

 dalis interna supeme canaliculata, externa margine exteriore spinalis armata. 

 Long. 1 poll. 



Hab. — Sinu " Kagosima ;" in profundis. 



470. Leptochela robcsta, nov. sp. Corpus robustum minus compressum- 

 Carapax ecarinatns, rostro gracillimo, oculis brevius. Antennulae carapace vix 

 longiores, pedunculo robusto. Antennarum appendix latior, sed acute trian- 

 gulata. Mandibularum corona margine interno non fissa. Pedes latiores. Ab- 

 domen segmento antepenultimo nee carinatum nee spina armatum. Praecedenti 

 affinis, sed omnino multo robustior. Long. 1 poll. 



Hab. — Mari Sinensi, prof. 20 org. Prope insulam " Loo Choo" quoque. 



471. SiCYONiA CRiSTATA, De Haan ; Fauna Japonica, Crust., 194; pi. xlv. 

 f. 10. — In sinu "Kagosima;" fundo conchoso et arenoso, prof. 20 org. 



472. SicYONiA PARVULA, Dc Haan; 1. c. 195; pi. xlr. f. 6. — In sinu "Kago- 

 sima." 



473. SiCYONiA ocELLATA, nov. sp. Carapax tomentosus. Crista carapacis 

 rostrique convexa, septem-dentata, dentibus antrorsum magnitudine decrescen- 

 tibus. Rostrum angustum, parce deflexura, articulum antennularum pedunculi 

 penultimum non superans, apice tridenticulatum, margine inferiore integrum. 

 Antennarum flagellum depressum utroque margine ciliatum. Pedes graciles ; 

 digitis primi secundi tertiique paris palmis longitudine subaequalibus. Abdo- 

 men profunde insculptum, porcis transversis, rugatis ; segmentorum epimeris 

 trangularibus, inermibus ; segmento ultimo basi lato, depresso, extremitatem 

 versus, in medio profunde canaliculato, apice aculeis tribus instructo, mediano 

 longiore. Color griieus, purpureo-varegiatus ; carapax utrinque ocello nigro 

 albo-marginato ornatus, in latere retrorsum sito ; abdomen lateribus albo- 

 maculatum. Long. 1.25 poll. 



Hab. — Porta "Hong Kong;" in fundo conchoso prof. 8 org. vulgaris. In 

 mari Sinensi quoque, lat. bor. 24° ; ad prof. 20 org. 



474. Pbnaeds sten'Odactylus, nov. sp. Descr. foeminae. Corpus compressum, 

 nudum. Carapax elongatus, carinatus. (quarta parte posteriore excepta,) laevis, 

 nisi dorso subtiliter granulato; spina hepatica distincta, sulcis proximis brevi- 

 bus et tenuibus ; spina antennali minuta, carina et sulco antennaii obsoletis ; 

 margine antico alibi inermi. Rostrum rectum vel parum resimum, oculis vix 

 longius; crista superiore 8-dentata, dente postico aliis remoto et paullo ante 

 medium carapacis sito, dente quarto supra oculos ; margine inferiore edentulo. 

 Oculi crassi, articulum antepenultiraum antennularum pedunculi non superan- 

 tes, articulo basali (basiophthalmito) spina brevi ad angulum superiorem 

 armato. Antennarum appendices longae. Maxillipedes ext. graciles, appen- 

 dices antennarum superantes. Pedes compressi ; digitis primi, secundi tertii- 

 que paris longis. Pedes quarti late compressi, hirsuti, antrorsum porrecti 

 oculos non superantes; quarti paris gracillimi longissimi, appendices ant. 

 multo superantes, nudi, extremitates versus styliformes, dactylo recto, dimidiam 

 partem carapacis longitudine fere adaequante. Abdominis segmenta quartum 

 quinium sextumque carinata ; segmenti penultimi appendix interna cultrata, 

 quam externa multo augustior. Pallide carneus. Long. 1.5 poll. 



Hab. — Portu " Hong Kong;" fundo limoso prof, sex org. 



475. Penaecs PODOPHTHALMUS, nov. sp. Descr. foeminae. Corpus elongatum, 

 compressum, superficie ut videtur glabrum, subtiliter vero punctatum. Carapax 

 elongatus, leviuscnlus, cristatus, (tertia parte posteriore excepta), spina hepatica 

 minuta, sulcis proximis distinctis sed brevibus ; spina antennali brevi, sulco 

 antennali obsoleto ; spina orbitali nulla. Rostrum breve, oculis dimidia bre- 

 vius ; crista dorsali septemdentata, dente postico aliis remoto et ad tertiam 

 I860.] 




44 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



anteriorem carapacis sito, dente quarto supra orbitam sito ; raarginibus den- 

 tium subtiliter serrulatis ; margine rostri inferiore edentulo. Oculorura pedun- 

 culi valde elongati sed carapace plus dimidia breviores, articulis basi et coxa 

 T^&v\\s^ podophthahnito longo gracili ad basin turgido. Antennulae praelongae, 

 carapace multo loagiores ; peduuculo carapace tertia parte breviore, articulo 

 antepenultimo ad podophthalmiti basin recipiendum superne excavato, pro- 

 cessii laminiformi interno minimo; fiagellis aequalibus. Antennarum appen- 

 dices anteunularum pedunculo breviores. Mandibularum palpi pergrandes. - 

 Maxillipedum externorum exognathus non multiarticulatus. Pedes breves ' 

 compressi; digitis manuum longis. Abdomen compressum. Pallide carneus. 

 Long. 1.3 poll. 



Hab. — Portu " Hong K3ng ;" fundo limoso prof. sex. org. 



476. Penaeus canaliculatus, Oliv. ; Encyc. Meth. 660. M. Edw. ; Hist. Nat. 

 des Crust, ii., 414. (Vix De Haan.)— In portu Sinensi " Hong Kong," et ad iasu- 

 1am "Loo Choo." 



477. Penaeus semisulcatds, De Haan ; Fauna Jap., Crust., 191, pi. xlvi, f. 1. 

 — Ad oras Sinenses prope insulam " Hong Kong." 



478. Pexaeus monodon, Fabr. ; Suppl., 408. M. Edw. ; Hist. Nat. des Crust., 

 ii. 416. — Prope oras Sinenses, lat. bor. 23°. 



479. Penaeus monocerus, Fabr. ; Suppl., p. 409, M. Edw. ; Hist. Nat. des 

 Crust., ii. 415. De Haan; 1. c, 192; pi. xlvi. f. 2. — Ad oras insularum "Hong 

 Kong" et " Loo Choo." 



480. Penaeus curvirostris, nov. sp. Descr. foeminae. Corpus superficie 

 granulis minutis acutisque asperum. Carapax fere ad extr. posticam obtuse 

 carinatus non vero canaliculatus ; sulco cervicali antice distincto, profundo, 

 prope marginem anticum oriente, retrorsumattenuato sulco cardiaco-branchiali 

 continuo, hoc latiusculo, paullo conspicuo, porca laevi definito ; spina hepatica 

 valida extrorsum prominente ; sulco gastro-hepatico laevi ; spina antennali 

 longa, acuta ; carina antennali fere acuta, sulco laevi, postice tomentoso ; sulco 

 gastro-frontali ei P. monoceri simile, minus profundo; spina orbitali minuta, 

 distincta vero et acuta. Rostrum articulum ultimum antennularum pedunculi 

 attingens, curvato-resiraum, apice gracile truncatum vel subbifurcatum; crista 

 superiore octo-dentata, dente postico aliis spatiis duobus remoto, dente tertio 

 supra orbitas sito ; margine inferiore edentulo ciliato. Rostri carinae laterales 

 acutae, in carapace obsolescentes: sulci Laterales vero leves, fere obsoleti. 

 Antennularum processus basalis internus gracilis, minuiscens, non spatulatus ; 

 flagella pedunculo paullo breviora. Maxillipedes externi extus nudi. Pedes 

 tertii paris basi secundis non angustiores, spina destituti. Pedes ultimi gra- 

 ciles, oculis attingentes. Sternum inter bases pedum quartorum quintorumque 

 plus minusve scutatum, inaequale, medio profunde excavatum ; antrorsum 

 obtuse triangulatum, margine dilatato laminiformi, arcuato, paullo prominente ; 

 uncis lateralibus nullis. Abdomen segmentis 3tio — 6to carinatum, brcviter 

 quoque in secundo ; cauda ei P. monoceri fere simili. Long. 3.5 poll. P. velutino 

 affinis, rostro curvato, carina antennali acuta etiam diifert. 



Hub. — Portu " Simoda" Japoniae. 



481. Penaeus velutinus, Dana; U. S. Expl. Exped., Crust., 1. 604; pi. xl. 

 f. 4. — In mari et ad insulas Sinenses, in sinibus insulae " Ousima," et in por- 

 tibus " Ksgosima" " Simoda" et " Hakodadi" Japoniae ; vulgaris in fundis 

 arenosis prof. 5-30 org. 



MiCROPROSTHEMA,* uov. geu. Corpus depressum, obesum, superficie varie 

 sculptum vel spinulis ornatum. Carapax minus induratus, dorso sulco cervi- 

 cali valido notatus. Rostrum mediocre, gracile, elongato-triangulatum, non 



*Etym. juntfio;, parvus ; Trpoa-Qijwx, appendix. 



[Jan. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA, 45 



lamiaiforme, dorso spiais armatum. Ociili parvi. Antennularum peduncu- 

 lus brevissimus, ad basin processu unciformi extus praeditus, lamella interna 

 nulla; flagella duo, longa, cylindrica. Antennae in piano antennularum sitae; 

 pedunculo etiam brevissimo, ad basin processu laminato cochleariformi intus 

 instructo, appendice minima, cultrata vel sublunata, pedunculo extus adjuncta 

 sed introrsum porrecta, margine interno longe ciliata ; flagello mediocris longi- 

 tudinis. Mandibulae per-robustae, processu antico obtuso, edentulo ; processu 

 interno globato laevi ; palpo ei Slenopi simili. Maxillipedes extern! breves, 

 sublaminati, extus spinis armati ; exognatho longo. Pedes exopodo brevi 

 instructi ; primi secundique paris gracillimi, manu minuta instructi ; tertii 

 paris grandes, manu maxima, lata, cristata ; quarti quintique paris longi, neque 

 annulati, dactylo minuto, biunguiculato. Abdomen foeminae latum, appen- 

 dicibus ventralibus longis gracilibus, introrsum porrectis, primi paris uni- 

 rameis. 



482. MicBOPROSTHEMA VALiDA, uov. sp. Descr. foeminae. Corpus crassum, 

 non altius quam latius. Carapax omnino spinulosus, spinis inaequalibus, in 

 dorso et regione hepatica majoribus, in lateribus fere longitudinaliter seriatis ; 

 margine antico circa basin antennae spinis tribus armato. Rostrum parvum, 

 antennarum pedunculi longitudine ; crista dorsali rostro duplo longiore, sep- 

 tem-spinosa ; cristislateralibus in carapace rostro divergentibus et3-4-spinosis. 

 Oculi parvi, cornels pedunculis angustioribus. Antennulae corpore quarta 

 parte breviores ; antennae eo non breviores. Antennarum appendix tertiam 

 partem carapacis longitudine adaequans ; pedunculus appendice paullo brevior. 

 Maxillipedes externi apicem appendicium ant. attingentes; ischio dilatato 

 apice externo unispinoso ; mero extus bispinoso. Pedes tertii grandes, mero 

 carpo aequali et quam ischium duplo longiore, et, simili carpo, trigone, acute 

 granuloso, marginibus spinuloso ; manu carapace non breviore, duplo longiore 

 quam latiore, superne cristata, crista inermi ; digitis valde compressis non 

 hiantibus ; pollice intus bidentato, dactylo unidentato, dentibus magnis. Ab- 

 domen carapace tertia parte longius, medio (seg. tertio) breviter carinatum; 

 segmentis Imo — 3tio transversim costatis, et in latere tuberculo spiniformi 

 armatis ; epiraeris segmentorum Imi — 5ti acute prominentibus et carinatis ; 

 segmentis sexto ultimoque planatis horizontalibus ; ultimo lato tenui, partim- 

 bicarinato, apice rotundato, margine lateral! unispinoso. Obscure fusca; uni- 

 color. Long. 0,65; thoracis lat. 0.24 poll. 



Hab. — In sinu insulae " Ousima ;" sublittoralis, in locis lapillosis algosisque. 



Genus Sergestes, M. Edw. Carapax dorso sutura v. sulco cervical! dis- 

 tincte notatus et regione branchiali longitudinaliter bicostatus. 



483. Sergestes pacificus, nov. sp. Carapax minus elongatus, rostro bre- 

 vissimo conico resimo, et spina vel dente praeorbitali armatus ; spina hepatica 

 quam in <S. Frisii magis posterior. Oculi breves, articulo antennularum basal! 

 plus tertia parte breviores. Antennularum pedunculi carapace parce brevi- 

 ores ; articulo ultimo quam penultimus multo longiore. Pedes eis S. atlantici 

 fere similes, eis S. Frisii multo majores ; primi paris quam maxillipedes externi 

 el eis secundi paris breviores ; quarti paris eis tertii tertia parte breviores ; 

 quint! dimidiam quartorum fere adequantes ; dactylis quasi articulatis longe 

 aetosis. Abdominis segmentum penultimum, quartum quintumque junctos 

 longitudine fere aequans ; lamella caudalis exterior margine externo dente 

 minuto infra medium armata. Long. 1.25 poll. 



Ilab. — Oceano Pacific©, lat. bor. 27^°, long, orient. 138". 



484. Sergestes vioilax, nov. sp. Foeminae corpus gracile. Carapax elon- 

 gatus, gracilis, sulcis costisque distinctis ; spina hepatica prope tertiam anteri- 

 orem sita minuta, extrorsum porrecta. Rostrum minutum, compressum, sub- 

 triangulatum, resimum, dorso convexum. Oculi praelongi, dimidiam fere 

 carapacis longitudine, articulum pedunculi antennularum penultimum supe- 

 rantes, subfungiformes, corneis globosis, pediculis gracillimis. Antennularum 



I860.] 




46 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



pedunculi articulus basalis minor, ultimo brevior. Antennarum appendix ei 

 S. oculati similis, extremitatem versus angustata, oculis longior. Maxillipedes 

 exterai grandes, dimidia basali incrassati, reliqua angustati, artlculo ultimo 

 praecedenti dimidia fere breviore, obtnso, setarum fasciculis tribus inferne 

 instructo. Pedes quarti mediocres. Abdomen dorso inerme ; segment© penul- 

 timo non duplo longiore quara latiore, quartum quintumque junctos longitu- 

 dine fere adaequante; lamella caudali exteriore extus dente minuto versus 

 basin armato. Long. 0.75 poll. S. oculato differt maxillipedibus externis multo 

 crassioribus, et pedibus quarti paris longioribus. A S. laciniato oculis longi- 

 oribus. 

 Hab. — Oceano Atlantico prope insulas " Azores." 



485. Sergestes macrophthalmcs, nov. sp. Carapax spina hepatica et spinis 

 gupra-orbitalibus armatus, interdum et spina erecta dorsali ad extremitatem 

 posticam. Rostrum brevissimum, resimum, apice antrorsum flexum. Ocnli 

 praelongi, fungiformes, carapace tertia parte breviores, apicem pedunculi 

 antennularum fere attingentes ; pediculis gracillimis. Antennularum pedun- 

 culi art. ultimus quam basalis non brevior. Antennarum appendix recta, 

 angusta, regulariter minuiscens, apice truncata, apicem antennularum pedun- 

 culi vix attingens. Maxillipedes externi eis S. vigilacis similes. Pedes thora- 

 eici secundi tertiique paris longissimi filiformes, apicibus paullo incrassati : 

 quarti paris (antrorsum porrecti) art. secundum maxillipedum ext. attingentes. 

 Pedes abdominales mediocres. Abdominis segmentum quintum interdum et 

 quartum spina dorsali minutissima armatum ; segmentum penultimum latum, 

 quartum quintumquejunctos longitudine fere aequans, subtus convexum ; seg- 

 mentum ultimum parvum. Lamellae caudalis exterioris margo externus supra 

 medium dente minutissimo armatus. Long. 0.7 poll. 



Hab. — Oceano Pacifico, lat. bor. 27^", long, orient. 138-^° ; etiam lat. bor. 35°, 

 long. occ. 155°. 



486. Sergestes longicaudatus, nov. sp. Rostrum minutum, spiniforme. 

 rectum, borizontale, dorso unidentatum. Oculi longi sed apicem art. basali* 

 antennularum pedunculi vix attingentes, clavati, cornels vix discretis. Anten- 

 nularum pedunculi articulus basalis art. penultimum et antepenultimum junctos 

 longitudine aequans. Antennarum appendix apicem ped. antennularum non 

 attingens, latior, intus margine convexa, ei S. serrulati similis. Maxillipedes 

 ext. gracillimi. Pedes graciles, tertii paris praelongi, quarti paris non valde 

 breviores. Abdomen dorso inerme ; segmento penultimo praelongo, quartum 

 quintumque junctos longitudine multo superante, ultimo duplo longiore. La- 

 mellae caudalis exterioris margo externus infra medium dente armatus, infra 

 dentem concavus. Pedes abdominales praelongi. Long. 0.75 poll. 



Hab. — Oceano Pacifico, lat. bor. 40°, long. occ. 155°. 



487. Sergestes anctlops, Kroyer ; Det. Kongl. Danske Vid. Selsk. Skrifter, 

 [5], Nat. og Math. Afd., 4de Bind; p. 262; pi. iii. f. 8 a-e. — In Oceano 

 Atlantico prope insulam Madeirae vulgaris. 



SKRGiA,*nov. gen. Pedes quarti qnintique paris sat longi et dactylo pal- 

 miformi instructi. Reliqua cum Sergeste fere conveniunt. 



488. Sergia remipes, nov. sp. Foeminae carapax valde elongatus, sat de- 

 pressus ; sulco cervicali distincto ; spina hepatica nulla. Rostrum minutum 

 spiniforme, acutura, curvatum, dorso dente vel spina armatum. Oculi sub- 

 fungiformes, tertiam partem carapacis longitudine aequantes, apicem art. 

 penultimi antennularum pedunculi attingentes. Antennarum appendix linearis, 

 oculos paullo superans. Maxillipedes externi et pedes sex anteriores subserrati 

 vel rugoso-marginati piMs simplicibus fasciculati. Maxillipedes ext. peduncn- 

 lum antennularum paullo superantes. Pedes quarti quintique paris graciles 

 cylindrici, fere nudi, setis plumosis sparsis solum instructi, dactjlis lamini- 



* Sergia, nom. propr. 



[Jan. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 47 



formibus subovatis. Pedes quarti quintis paullo longiores sed carapace vix 

 lonciores. Pedes abdominales longi, primi paris carapace longiores, pedunculo 

 ramos fere adaequaate. Abdomen dorso compressum, segtnentis quinto sextoque 

 acutum vel spinigerum ; segmento sexto quinto longiore et spina minuta ad an- 

 gulum infero-posteriorem armato. Lamella caudalis exterior margine externo 

 spina aculeiformi infra medium armata. Long. 0.6 poll. 

 JJab.—Oceano Pacifico, lat. bor. 27i°, long, orient. 13§p. 



The Mexican Humming Birds. 



BY RAFAEL MONTES DE OCA, 



Of Jalapa, Mexico. 



No. I. 

 Campylopterps De Lattkei Gould. 

 Mellisuga De Lattrei Gray. 

 De Lattre's Sabre Wing, Gould, Monograph, part x. 



This beautiful Humming Bird, or colihri, is generally known in Mexico by 

 the name of Chupa-mirto real azul, or Royal blue Myrtle-sucker. It comes 

 abundantly to the vicinity of Jalapa, Coatepec and Orizaba, in the months of 

 October and November, and is mostly found eating the honey of a plant called 

 Masapan. It is one of those birds that do not rise early in the morning to 

 hunt their food, for very few are found earlier than nine o'clock in the morn- 

 ing, and from that time till twelve or one o'clock appears to be their breakfast 

 hours. During this time they are but very seldom seen to alight, and for a 

 very short time only in any one place, for they go constantly from flower to 

 flower, sucking the honey, and from one place to another, describing in their 

 flight a part of a circle, and sometimes almost touching the ground. In the 

 same manner also they are seen to come, so that by placing oneself where there 

 are such plants in blossom, it is easy to shoot several specimens in one morn- 

 ing without walking very far or moving much about. During the remainder 

 of the day, very few are to be seen, and it is very probable that they go into the 

 woods, where they find certain kinds of mosquitoes, with which I have often 

 found their craws well filled. 



This bird is extremely shy, but is very easily tamed, most probably on account 

 of its very gluttonous disposition ; for once caged and provided with a little cup 

 containing syrup, without any trouble he finds it readily when he is hungry, 

 and I have seen them feasting in this manner, half an hour after having been 

 made prisoners. It is diflicult to keep them alive, and I have never been able 

 to preserve them for a longer time than two months, which, I think, is more 

 on account of the want of exercise than of the coming of the winter season as 

 is generally believed here, for I have found, though rarely, in the middle of 

 what we call a severe winter, the handsomest specimens that I have ever 

 seen. 



The aversion that the males of this species bear to each other as well as to 

 all of their kind is very remarkable. It is very seldom that two meet together 

 without there ensuing an aerial battle worthy of a most magnificent picture. 

 It commences with a sharp, choleric shriek, which makes them swell out their 

 throats, and raising all the feathers of their bodies, and spreading open their 

 tails, they begin to fight with their wings and bills, and the least powerful soon 

 tumbles to the ground or else runs away. I have never seen one of these bat- 

 tles last longer than about ten seconds, and in the specimens that I have had 

 under my notice in cages, nearly always this fighting has ended in the splitting 

 of the tongue of one of the two, which then surely dies on account of not being 

 able to eat. 



The place of incubation of this bird is very probably Guatemala, where it i? 



I860.] 




48 TROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



also found abundantly, and to wMcli country it certainly migrates in the latter 

 part of November. I have never found nor heard that it goes farther north 

 than the first mentioned places above. The nest I have never found. 



This species of humming bird, in the general appearance of its body, is of a deep 

 metalhc shining turquoise blue, of the most beautiful shade ; the upper part of 

 the head is brown tinged with bronze green, the upper wing and tail coverts 

 shining bronze green, the wing feathers are purplish black with the vanes of 

 the three principal ones on each side black, very wide and resembling whale- 

 bone. The tail is bright bluish black, with the three feathers of each side 

 having about three quarters of an inch of a pnre white, and sometimes the 

 fourth partakes of a little of the white" also. The upper part of each leg is 

 covered with white downy feathers, running apparently into each other in a 

 line of the same color below the under tail coverts ; the feet are purplish black ; 

 the bill black, resembling whalebone. Total length of this specimen is 5| 

 inches, wing 3|^, tail 2^, bill 1^ inches. 



The female is about half an inch smaller than the male, and her appear- 

 ance is, in the upper part of the body, upper wing and tail coverts, of a metal- 

 lic bronze green ; the upper part of the head is bronze, tinged with yellowish 

 bronzed green. The breast is of a light iron gray, with the sides tinged with 

 bronze green. The throat feathers have the points tinged with blue of the 

 same shade as the male. The wings are purplish black, but the vanes of the 

 side quills are not half so strong as those of the male ; the tail is very much 

 like that of the male, with the difference of the two middle feathers, which 

 are bronzed green. The under tail coverts are tinged with the same color, with 

 the edges of light iron graj', like the breast. The feet and bill are of the same 

 size and color as those of the male. 



The Reports of the Publication Committee and the Committee on 

 Proceedings were read and adopted. 



Pursuant to the By-Laws of the Academy an election of the members 

 of the Standing Committees for 1860 was held, with the following re- 

 sult : — 



1. Ethnology, J. A. Meigs, S. S. Haldeman, T. G. Morton. 2. 

 Comparative Anatomy and General Zoology, Joseph Leidy, J. M. 

 Corse, J. H. Slack. 3. Mammalogy, John LeConte, J. H. Slack, 

 Wm. Camac. 4. Ornithology, John Cassin, T. B. Wilson, S. W. 

 Woodhouse. 5. Herpetology and Ichthyology, Robert Bridges, J. Ches- 

 ton Morris, John L. LeConte. 6. Conchology, T. A. Conrad, W. G. 

 Binney, W. S. W. Ruschenberger. 7. Entomology and Crustacea, 

 R. Bridges, John L. LeConte, E. T. Cresson. 8. Botany, E. Durand, 

 A. J. Brazier, J. Carson. 9. Geology, I. Lea, Chas. E. Smith, J. P. 

 Lesley. 10. 3Iineralogy, "Wm. S. Vaux, J. C. Trautwine, W. G. E. 

 Agnew. 11. Paleeontology , Joseph Leidy, T. A. Conrad, Wm. M. 

 Gabb. 12. Physics, B. H. Rand, Wm. M. Ubler, Jas. C. Booth. 

 13. Z/rZ*TO?'j/, Wm. S. Vaux, Robert Bridges, Joseph Leidy. 14. Pro- 

 ceedings, John L. LeConte, Joseph Leidy, Wm. S. Vaux, W. S. W. 

 Ruschenberger, J. C. Fisher. 



A communication was read from Mr. P. B. Duchaillu, giving a state- 

 ment of claims made by him against the Academy, and on motion, the 

 subject was referred to a committee of five, consisting of Messrs. 

 Ruschenberger, Jeanes, Vaux, Powel and Stewardson. 



[Jan. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 49 



February 7th. 

 Mr. Lea, President, in the Chair. 



Forty-nine members present. 



The following were presented for publication : 



" Descriptions of new species of American Fluviatile Gasteropods, 

 by J. G. Anthony." 



" Supplement to a Catalogue of the Venomous Serpents in the 

 Museum of the Academy of Natural Sciences, by E. D. Cope." 



" Catalogue of the Calamarian Serpents in the Museum of the 

 Academy of Natural Sciences, with notes and descriptions, by E. D. 

 Cope." 



Mr. Binney called attention to a species of Leda, presented this evening, 

 which, Dr. Gould states, is common to Japan and Massachusetts. 



A discussion on geographical distribution then took place, in which Dr. 

 Le Conte mentioned that he had prepared a map representing the provinces 

 of geographical distribution of Coleoptera in the territories of the United 

 States ; he divides the temperate part of the continent into three (or perhaps 

 four) districts : 1. Atlantic, extending westwardly to the longitude of the 

 mouth of the Platte ; 2. Central, extending from the mouth of the Platte to 

 the Sierra Nevada ; 3. Pacific, including the water shed of the maritime 

 Pacific coast. These districts are each divided into several provinces, and with 

 larger collections the Central, as at present defined, may be found to be in 

 reality two districts, limited by the Rocky Mountains ; of these the eastern 

 will be called the Central, and the western the Interior district. This map 

 accompanies a memoir on the Coleoptera of Kansas, Nebraska and New Mexico, 

 published in the Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge. 



Mr. Binney remarked, that having prepared for the Smithsonian Institution 

 a catalogue of the terrestrial and fluviatile Gasteropods of North America, he 

 was able to present the following results : 



Of the boreal regions but little is known. The only data we have are from 

 Greenland. Both the fresh water and land species are peculiar to that country, 

 excepting the European Helix hortensis, which has been introduced also in 

 Canada and New England. 



Of Mexico also but little is known. A few of its land species are found in 

 Texas ; they are, however, confined to that region, not extending farther north. 

 The genera are more tropical than in the rest of the continent. Fluviatile 

 species are very rare in Mexico, judging from the few data we have. The 

 species appear dilferent from those of the Atlantic region. 



On the west coast the species of land shells are quite distinct from those of 

 the Atlantic region, excepting Bulimus zebra ; the genera, however, are the 

 same, though fewer in number. Among the fluviatile species are found eleven 

 species of Pulmonates, which also inhabit the Atlantic region. 



In the Atlantic region are two or three species of land shells found in 

 Europe, and a few fluviatile Pulmonates. The occurrence of the Asiatic 

 species quoted from the United States may well be doubted. 



The following table shows the facts presented by Mr. Binney. It is neces- 

 sarily imperfect, owing to the small amount of material, the somewhat con- 

 fused synonymy, &c. 



Column 1 contains the species found in the Pacific region. 



Column 2, those of the Atlantic region. 



Column 3, those common to the Pacific and Atlantic region. 



I860.] 4 




50 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



Column 4, those of Mexico, excepting the west coast. 

 Column 5, those common to Mexico and the Atlantic region. 

 Column 6, those of Greenland. 



Class GASTEROPODA. 



Order PECTINIBRANCHIATA. 



Suborder ROSTRIFERA. 



Family. Subfamily, Genus. 



AMPULLARIAD^ Ampullaria. . . 



CYCLOPHORID^ Ctciotin^ Cyclotiis 



CYCLoPHORlN^.Cyclophorus. .. 



liiciNiN^ Ctenopoma.. . . 



CTCLOSTOJUN^.Tiidora 



Cistula. 



Chondropema. 

 HELICINID^ Helicina 



Schazicheilse. . . 



LITTORINID^ Amnicola 



TRUNCATTELLID^ Truncatella 



MELANIAD^ Melania 



Gyrotoma 



Leptoiis 



lo 



VITIPARrDiE Viviparus 



Bithinia 



VALVATID^ ValTata. ...... 



Order SCUTIBRANCHIATA. 



Suborder PSEUDOBRANCHIA. 



PROSERPDfAD^ Ceres 



Order PNEUMOBRANCHIATA. 



Suborder GEOPHILA. 



TESTACELLIDJi.. 



ARIONID.E 



HtLICIDiK 



TERONICELLIDJE., 

 ONCHIDIAD-*; 



Suborder LIMNOPHILA. 



AURICULID^i. 



LIMNEAD^. 



.Melampinjb. . .Melampu*.. 

 Admculin^. . .Alexia 



Blauneria. . 



Leuconia... 



Carychium. 

 Limnaea. .. . 



Pompholyx . 



Physa 



Planorbis. .. 



-Glandina 



.Arion 



. Tebennophorus.. . 



Limax 



Titrina 



Simpulopsis 



SuccinPia 



Helix 



Bulimus 



Spiraxis , 



Orthalicus 



Macroceramns. . , 



Achatlna 



Pupa 



Vertigo 



Cylindrella 



.Teronicella 



.Onchidivun 



Ancylus 4 



4 

 

 

 1 

 

 

 1 

 6 

 



18 



4 



292 



10 



54 

 



60 

 



6 

 1* 

 2 

 3 

 1 

 

 15 

 lilt 



'V 



2 

 1 

 3 

 12 

 4 

 4 

 1 



|117 770 



177 I 17 13 



1 

 1 

 1 

 3 



26 



3 



20 



5 



305 



10 



57 



10 



66 



1 



9 



22 

 167 



48 



17 

 4 

 1 

 9 



13 

 4 



19 

 1 

 1 



• Imported. 



X Two gpeciea imported. 



t Found also In the Atlantic region, and imported. 

 1 One speeiee imported. 



[Feb. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 51 



February Wtli. 

 Mr. Lea, President, in the Chair. 



Forty-nine members present. 



A paper was presented for publication, entitled : 



" Descriptions of new species of Cyrena and Corbicula in the Cab- 

 inet of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, by Temple 

 Prime. 



Mr. Lea remarked that when Mr. Binney, at the last meeting, called the at- 

 tention of the members to a reversed Faludina on the table, the discussion tak- 

 ing a wide range, he (Mr. Lea) stated that an abnormal reversed character 

 sometimes occurred in the genus Unio, and he then mentioned that he had spe- 

 cimens of various species where this condition was very remarkable. He also 

 then stated that among Helices, in a semi-domesticated position — in gardens, 

 hedge-rows, &c., in England and on the continent — it was not a very rare cir- 

 cumstance to find heterostrophe individuals ; he had quite a number; but that 

 among the immense number of our own species which had passed under his 

 eyes, he had found only a single specimen which was heterostrophe, viz. : a 

 Helix hirsuia, Say. Mr. Lea went on to say that he had prepared himself to ex- 

 hibit, to-night, his specimens alluded to, and to which he now called the atten- 

 tion of the members. He Avas glad to see by the December number of the Pro- 

 ceedings of the Boston Soc. Nat. Hist, received by post to-day, that Prof. Agas- 

 siz had made a communication to the Society on " reversed bivalve shells," ex- 

 hibiting a specimen of the Unio ligamenti7ms, Lamarck, observing that " it was 

 quite rare and generally not easily observed." Mr. Lea exhibited twenty-one 

 specimens of various species which were all abnormal as regarded their lateral 

 teeth, some having a single one in both valves, others being simply reversed as to 

 the double and single cardinal and lateral teeth ; others having double lateral 

 teeth in both valves, and others again having a treble lateral tooth in the left 

 valve, and a double one in the right valve. The first reversed JJyvio he had seen 

 was a specimen of complanatus from the mill-dam at Bristol, Penna., about 25 

 years since; afterward he had found one in the Schuylkill, and subsequently 

 found them occasionally among thousands of specimens sent by friends from 

 various parts of the United States. From Dr. Lewis, of Mohawk, he had re- 

 ceived some very fine specimens. 



The following table will exhibit the various abnormal forms of Uniones in 

 Mr. Lea's collection : 



Single lateral tooth in each valve. 



Unio complanatus, Lea, (Mya complanaia, Solan.) Schuylkill River, Pa. 

 " occidens, Lea, Wisconsin. 

 " purpuratus, Lam., Claiborne, Ala. 

 " ventricosus, Bar., St. Lawrence, Montreal. 



Single lateral tooth in the left, and double in the right valve. 

 Unio complanatus, Lea, 2 specimens, Bristol, Pa., and Mohawk, N. Y. 

 " alatus. Say, Ohio River. 

 " Hopetonensis, Lea, Darien, Geo. 

 " nasuius. Say, Arkansas. 

 " radiaiut, Lam., Petersburg, Vir. 



Double lateral tooth in both valves. 

 Unio complanatus, Lea, 6 specimens, Mohawk, N. Y. 

 " " " Genessee, N. Y. 



" " " Schuylkill, Pa. 



" ccrrugatus, Lam., Pondichery, India. 



I860.] 




52 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Treble lateral tooth in the left, and double in the right valve. 

 Unio corrugatus. Lam., Bengal. 



Treble lateral tooth in the left, and partly treble in the right valve. 

 Unio gibbosus, Barnes, Fox River, Wisconsin. 

 " corrugatus. Lam., India. 



Mr. Lea stated that in his first paper published in the Trans. Am. Phil. Soc. 

 in 1827, he paid attention to the diflference of the teeth, and in 1829 he publish- 

 ed a description of that remarkable Unio from the Schuylkill, described under 

 the name of heterodon, from the very peculiar and aberrant form of the double 

 lateral tooth being placed in the right valve, and the single in the left one. 

 This was the first form of the kind which had ever come under his notice, A 

 few years subsequently he found the first specimen of an abnormal character, 

 conforming exactly to the normal condition of the heterodon, and this was in the 

 Bristol specimen. Since that period he observed closely the abnormal forms of 

 the species, and the result is given in the previous table. But it must be im- 

 pressed on the zoologist's mind, that the form of teeth which is normal in one 

 species, may be abnormal in another, because, while there is impressed on 

 every species a law as regards its form, — and the general one of this species of 

 Unio is to have the lateral tooth double in the left, and single in the right 

 valve, and the cardinal either the same or double in both, — yet aberrant form.s 

 from this are quite numerous, as will be found in the following table of 

 species. He wished the attention of the members to the fact that what 

 was abnormal in some individuals of a species, would be perfectly normal 

 in others ; thus, in complanatus, when the lateral teeth are found double in the 

 right, and single in the left, they are reversed, and therefore abnormal ; but in 

 the heterodon this condition of the teeth is normal, and so it will be with other 

 conditions of other species, even so far removed from the typical Unio as in the 

 eximius. Lea, from Siam, which has a treble lateral tooth in the left, and a dou- 

 ble one in the right valve as its normal form, for this is imitated by the speci- 

 men of corrugatus exhibited, which has the treble tooth in the left valve, and 

 double one in the right, which in this case is remarkable, its normal condition 

 being that of the typical Unio. 



In the following table will be found most of the species which, while they 

 are perfectly normal, are still aberrant from the typical Unio, all of them but 

 two having been described by Mr. Lea. 



Cardinal tooth single in both valves. 

 Unio Bengalensis, Lea, Bengal. 



Cardinal tooth double iji the right, and single in the left valve. 

 Unio Corrianus, Lea, Bengal. 



•' lamellatus. Lea, Bengal. 



'' bilineatus, Lea, Bengal. 



" contradens. Lea, Java? 



" gravidus. Lea, Siam. 



" tumidulus, Lea, Siam. 



" humilis, Lea, Siam. 



" Sagittarius, Lea, Siam. 



" substriatus. Lea, Siam. 



" Dunkerianus, Lea, Brazil. 



" Cambodianus, Lea, Siam. 



" consobrinus. Lea, China. 



" Layardii, Lea, Ceylon. 



" plicatulus, Lea, Borneo. 



" vittatu^, Lea, Australia. 



" Wilsonii, Lea, Australia. 



" Mauritianus, Lea, Indian Ocean. 



[Feb. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 53 



Unio hulloides, Lea, Rio Plata, S. Am. 

 " atratus, {Niaa, Swaia.) Chili, 

 " Araucanus, Philippi, Chili. 

 " piceus, Lea, Uruguay, S. Am. 



Cardinal and lateral teeth double in both valves. 

 Unio phaselus, Lea, Siam. 

 " scobinatus, Lea, Siam. 



Lateral tooth double in the right valve only. 

 Unio heterodon, Lea, Penn. 



Lateral tooth double in both valves. 

 Umo nucleus, Lea, Siam. 



Lateral tooth treble in the left, and double in the right valve. 

 Unio eximius, Siam. 



Cardinal tooth treble in the right valve. 

 Uniofunebralis, Lea, Uruguay River, S. Am. 



Cardinal tooth treble in both valves, and lateral tooth treble in the right, and double 



in the left valve. 

 Unio trifidus, Lea, Buenos Ayres, S. Am. 



It is not pretended that the last table is entirely complete. The object is ac- 

 complished to shew that the teeth of different species vary normally, and that 

 individuals of the species vary ahnormaUy. 



As regards the genus Triqueira, Klein, (Jlyria, Lamark.) which has cardinal 

 and lateral teeth in both valves, so far as observed the lateral tooth in the 

 left valve is double, and in the right single. 



The cardinal tooth in both valves is usually lamellar and multiplied, and 

 articulate closely. In some cases it is much longer than in others of the 

 same species. In one specimen of T. subviridis, Klein, in Mr. Lea's cabinet, the 

 the cardinal tooth is almost the same length of the lateral tooth ; and in two 

 specimens both teeth have transverse striag like Frisodon, Schum. (^Castalia, 

 Lam.) which of course is an aberrant form. The Triqueira contorta, Lea, is an 

 aberrant species, the cardinal teeth in both valves being obtusely conical and 

 double in both valves. I have never met with any abnormal form of teeth in 

 any of the species of Triqueira, but so few specimens get into the cabinets that 

 if they do exist none have yet been detected. 



The genus Frisodon, the teeth of which are so nearly the same as those of 

 Unio as to induce M. Deshayes to put it in that genus, are almost identical 

 with some of the species, except in character of transverse parallel striae: 

 and even this characteristic of the genus is absent in some of Mr. Lea's 

 specimens of truncatus, Schum., (ambigua, Lam.) If, however, the lobes of 

 the mantle are united behind so as to form two tubes, there would be no pro- 

 priety in placing it with the Uniones, as the mantle is never united in that part 

 in them. 



Prof. R. E. Rogers made some remarks on the debitumenization of coal, 

 and also communicated the following facts having reference to the propaga- 

 tion of concussion from rock-blasting to strata at a distance, as exemplified 

 in the effect upon the water of wells. 



A well, sixty feet in depth, with the water rising within ten feet of the sur- 

 face, had, previous' to the occurrence, been yielding a large supply of water 

 to an extensive factory, when, immediately upon the discharge of a heavy 

 blast in a^toue quarry about four hundred yards distant, the water began to 

 fall, and soon altogether disappeared. 



I860.] 




54 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



Another well, remote from the last mentioned one, had been yielding a good 

 supply of water for more than a year. A blast of ordinary violence was dis- 

 charged in an excavation for stone, three hundred yards distant from it, where- 

 upon the water quickly and entirely disappeared. The proprietor directed a 

 boring to be made in the bottom of the well six feet in depth and a blast to 

 be set off in it. 



The result was as curious as the one which preceded it. The water at once 

 reappeared, and the supply has since been steady and in great abundance. 



Dr. Leidy observed that the remarks of Prof. Rogers, had reminded Mm of 

 the so-called Hillsboro coal or Albertite, of Albert Co., New Brunswick. This 

 substance Dr. L. regards as a variety of Asphaltum and not as coal. The 

 latter consists of the fossil remains of plants. The Albertite is a product re- 

 sulting from the distillation of bitumenous coals or shales. Coal always pre- 

 sents in microscopic section the remains of vegetable structure ; Albertite is 

 perfectly amorphous. Coals are stratified or interstratified with other sub- 

 stances ; the Albertite presents many evidences of being an injected material 

 into fissures of the surrounding shales. 



The number of the Proceedings for January was laid upon the 

 table. 



Fehruary 2\st. 

 Mr. Lea, President, in the Chair, 



Thirty -five members present. 



A paper was presented for publication entitled : 



'* The Mexican Humming Birds, No. 2, by Rafael Montes de Oca." 



Mr. Slack remarked that the two teeth of the Mosasaurus missouriensis, pre- 

 sented by him this evening, had been procured for him from the marl pits of 

 Mr. Coward, about two miles west of Freehold, N. J., through the exertions of 

 Mr. Hopper, of Freehold, N. J., a gentleman to whom the Academy is lai'gely 

 indebted for cretaceous fossils. This is the eleventh specimen of the Mosa- 

 saurus missouriensis identified by Mr. Slack, found within a radius of ten miles 

 from Monmouth Court House. 



Dr. Leidy announced that the valuable collection of fossils of Mr. 

 Eli Boweu had been purchased by subscription and presented to the 

 Academy. 



February 2Sth. 

 Mr. Lea, President, in the Chair. 



Forty- four members present. 



The Report of the Biological Department for the present month was 

 read. 



On report of a committee of the Biological Department, the paper 

 entitled, " Method of painting moist anatomical preparations, by H. 

 D. Schmidt, M. D.," was recommended for publication in the Pro- 

 ceedings of the Department. 



And the following were ordered to be printed in the Proceedings : 



[Feb. 





O I 



-er 



Z Id 



pieoy oojtj 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 55 



Illustrations of some Fossils described in the Proceedings of the Academy of 



Natural Sciences. 



BY T. A. CONRAD AND AVM. M. GABB. 



PI. 1, fig. 1, a, h, c, Myalina deltoidea Gabb, Proc. Acad. 1859, p. 297. 



PI. 1, fig. 2, Posidonia Moore i Gabb, Proc. Acad. 1859, p. 297. 



PL 1, fig. 3, Myacites pensylvanicus Conrad, Proc. Acad. 1857, 

 p. 166. 



The first two, Myalina deltoidea and Posidonia Mo ore i are carbon- 

 iferous ; Myacites pensylvanicus is triassic, from Phoenix ville, Penn- 

 sylvania. 



Descriptions of New Species of American Fluviatile Gasteropods. 

 BY J. G. ANTHONY. 



Melania ANG0STISPIRA, Authonj. — Shell thick, elongate, very slender ; color 

 reddish-brown, with a narrow pale line at the suture; whorls 9-10, lower ones 

 subconvex, smooth, upper ones flattened and carinate near their bases : sutures 

 slight ; aperture narrow-ovate, within pale purple ; columella regularly curved : 

 sinus not remarkable. 



JIab. — Tennessee. 



My Cab.; Cab. Hugh Cuming, London; A. N. S. Philada. ; State Collection, 

 Albany, N. Y. ; Smithsonian Collection, Washington, D. C. 



Obs. — May be compared with M. exilis, Hald., than which it is more slender, 

 more attenuate, and of more solid texture ; its color is also entirely different, 

 being more like M. Warderiana, Lea, but wanting the peculiar bulbous form of 

 that species. The carinations do not extend to the three lower whorls ; upon 

 these they are entirely wanting. It is a peculiarly slender and graceful species. 



M. DECORATA, Anthouy — Shell short, thick, ovate ; whorls about five, but 

 truncate so as to show only two or three remaining ; whorls prominently ribbed 

 and intersected by revolving striae, forming nodules where they cross each 

 other; dark bands also revolve around the whorls, giving them a highly deco- 

 rative appearance ; columella often thickened by a callous deposit ; sinus 

 small. 



Eab. — Oostanulla River, Georgia. 



My Cab. ; Cab Hugh Cuming, London ; A. N. S. Philada. ; State Collection, 

 Albany, N. Y. ; Smithsonian Collection, Washington, D. C. 



Obs. — I collected some two hundred specimens of this species in Oostanulla 

 River, Ga., in 1853, and then supposed they would prove to be merely the 

 young of M. coelatura, Con. Closer examination and comparison, however, 

 has convinced me that they are not identical. Many of the specimens are 

 decidedly mature, and diflfer from " ccelatura " by the greater regularity of their 

 folds, which are also interrupted by a revolving raised line near the sutures, 

 and by their dark bands and less elongate form ; cannot well be compared with 

 any other. 



M. AorsTA, Anthony. — Shell conical, smooth, shining ; color dark brown, 

 with a pale line near the sutures ; whorls 7-8, flat ; body whorl rather large, 

 subangulated and with somewhat coarse lines of growth ; sutures distinct, but 

 not remarkable ; aperture ovate, dark purple within ; outer lip curved, colu- 

 mella deeply rounded, a broad sinus at base. 



Ilab. — Tennessee. 



My Cabinet ; Cab. H. Cuming, London ; Cab. A. N. S. Philada. ; State Col- 

 lection, Albany, N. Y. ; Smithsonian Collection, Washington, D. C, 



I860.] 




56 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Obs. — A neat, pretty species, of rather plain appearance. Compared with if. 

 gracilior, nob., it is broader, shorter, and of darker color ; the broad deep cinc- 

 ture on the body-whorl and beautiful red bands in the interior, so conspicuous 

 in M. gracilior, are also wanting. From " athleta" it differs by its shorter, more 

 acute form, and by the absence of folds. It is less slender than M. viridula. 



M. BicracTA, Anthony. — Shell conical, elevated, spire very acute ; whorls 7, 

 upper ones bicarinate, and body whorl encircled by three or four carina, the 

 upper two of which are prominent, while the lower two are often striae merely ; 

 color dark olive brown, very shining, and relieved by a faint or yellow narrow 

 band near the suture; sutures distinct; aperture ovate, and brown within; 

 columella deeply indented. 



Hab. — Tennessee. 



My Cabinet ; Cab. Hugh Cuming, London ; A. N. S. Philada. ; State Collection, 

 Albany, N. Y. : Smithsonian Collection, Washington, D. C. 



Ohs. — A beautifully distinct and well marked species of that group whii-h JU. 

 bella, Conrad, may be considered most fitly to represent. May be distinguished 

 from M. bella by its broader and more acute form, more distinct carination and 

 absence of the beaded line so characteristic of that species. Lines of growth 

 conspicuous and crowded. Differs from 31. bicostnta, nob., by its less robust 

 form, darker color, and by the form of its spire, which diminishes more rapidly 

 towards the apex. 



M. ABSCiDA, Anthony. — Shell ovate, smooth, olivaceous, thick ; spire obtuse, 

 composed of five low whorls nearly flat ; body whorl large, occupying nearly 

 the entire length of the shell; aperture not broad but long, subrhombic, more 

 than half the length of the shell; columella deeply rounded and indented; 

 outer lip much curved and produced ; sinus broad and conspicuous. 



Hab. — Alabama. My Cabinet. 



Obs. — A ponderous species, whose chief characteristic is its square form and 

 short truncate spire, resembling in that respect M. planospira, nob. It differs 

 from that species, however, by its more elongate form, narrow, rhombic aper- 

 ture, and by having several revolving striae at base. It is a solid shell of com- 

 pact texture, and seems to be rare, as only two specimens have come under my 

 notice. 



M. BicoSTATA, Anthony.— Shell conical, light horn color, rather thick ; spire 

 elevated, acute ; whorls 11-12, strongly carinate near the apex, and decidedly 

 so on each succeeding whorl, not excepting even the body-whorl in most cases, 

 though sometimes obsolete there; carinse often in pairs, near to, and parallel 

 with each other ; sutures deeply impressed, often with a decided furrow at that 

 point, caused by the carinae. Aperture broadly elliptical, or subrhombic ; 

 within dirty white or obscurely banded ; columella deeply rounded, with a well- 

 marked sinus at base. 



Hab. — Tennessee, near Athens. 



My Cabinet; Cab. Hugh Cuming, London; Cab. A. N. S. Philada.; State 

 Collection, Albany, N. Y. ; Smithsonian Collection, Washington, D. C. 



Obs. — Appears to be a very abundant and rather variable species. Several 

 hundred individuals have come under my notice. It cannot well be confounded 

 with any other species, though of a form by no means uncommon. The sharp 

 double carina will at once generally determine it. Occurs abundantly near 

 Athens, in small streams. 



M. FUNEBRALis, Anthony. — Shell conic, smooth, solid, of a dark chesnat 

 color ; spire elevated and generally abruptly truncate ; whorls from 3 to 5 only 

 remaining, slightly eonvex ; aperture ovate, within bluish; columella white, 

 tinged occasionally with purple; sinus small. 



Hab. — Tennessee. 



My Cabinet; Cab. Hugh Cuming, London; A. N. S. Philada.; State Coll., 

 Albany, N. Y. ; Smithsonian Collection. 



[Feb. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 57 



Obs. — A very neat, pretty species, with no very decided character to distin- 

 guish it from allied species. May be compared with M. brevispira, nob., but is 

 far more solid in its texture, of a darker color, and its surface is more polished 

 and shining ; much less slender too than brevispira, and that species is never so 

 abruptly decollate. It appears to be an abundant species. 



M. GLADCA, Anthony. — Shell conical, folded, of a green color on the lower 

 whorls, often modified by a brown tinge on the upper ones ; whorls 10, slightly 

 convex, with prominent longitudinal ribs, obsolete on the body-whorl ; sutures 

 well defined, but not deeply marked; aperture ovate, livid within and with 

 occasionally a faint rosy tinge there ; columella angulated at the middle ; sinus 

 well defined. 



Hab. — Tennessee. My Cabinet. 



Obs. — A stout species, with prominent, curved ribs on all the upper whorls, 

 those on the body-whorl being less clearly defined or else absolutely wanting. 

 Color a beautiful apple-green, relieved by a broad yellow band near the suture ; 

 and this color often passes into a yellowish brown on the upper whorls. Near 

 the apex the folds are often traversed by four or five prominent striae, which 

 pass over without being interrupted by the longitudinal ribs. May be com- 

 pared with M. viridula, nob , as to color, but is less slender, and the ribs at 

 once distinguish it. 



M. iNFRAFASCiATA, Authony. — Shell conical, smooth, solid, of a pale brown 

 color, form moderately slender and elevated; whorls 8-9, decollate, slightly 

 concave; sutures distinct; lines of growth curved and very distinct ; body- 

 whorl decidedly concave, with a well-marked ridge revolving near the summit 

 of the aperture, so as to make a tolerably sharp angle near the middle of the 

 body-whorl; two or three coarse striae revolve parallel with it ; below this is a 

 dark brown band, continued around the base of the shell ; aperture rhombic- 

 ovate, livid and banded within ; columella strongly incurved, with a callous 

 deposit its whole length and well-defined sinus at base. 



Mab. — Tennessee. 



My Cab.; Cab. H. Cuming; A. N. S. Philada. ; State Coll., Albany, N. Y. ; 

 Smithsonian Collection. 



Obs. — Compared with 31. gradata, nob., it is more elongate, more solid, and 

 has not the carina and regularly graded whorls so characteristic of that species. 

 Less conical than M. canaliculata Say, and less broad. Like M, annulifera, 

 Con., in form, but has not the revolving costae of that species. 



M. PADCicosTA, Anthony. — Shell conical, nearly smooth, of a dark greenish 

 horn color; spire obtusely elevated; whorls nearly flat, with a few distinct 

 longitudinal ribs on the upper ones ; body- whorl entirely smooth ; sutures well 

 marked ; aperture ovate, within livid or purple ; columella rounded ; sinus 

 small. 



Hab. — Tennessee. 



My Cab. ; Cab. H. Cuming, London; A, N. S. Philada. ; State Coll., Albany, 

 N. Y. ; Smithsonian Collection. 



Obs. — Belongs to a group of which nitens may be considered the type. 

 From that species it differs, however, by its more robust form and stronger 

 ribs. There is also a marked peculiarity in this species not often observed in 

 the genus; the spire being acute at the apex, increases regularly for the first 

 four or five turns, and then suddenly expanding, becomes as it were distorted 

 in appearance. The ribs are distant from each other and very strongly 

 expressed, differing in this respect from M. athleta,\ih\c\x it otherwise resembles. 

 It is a beautiful and appears to be an abundant species. 



M. OCCULTA, Anthony. — Shell conic, smooth, rather thin ; color lemon-yellow, 

 inclining to brown, with a darker brown band on each whorl, increasing to two 

 on the body-whorl ; whorls 7-8, rather convex ; suture deeply impressed ; aper- 

 ture ovate, within dusky white, with the outer bands seen faintly through its 



I860.] 




58 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



substance ; columella beautifully rounded ; outer lip produced, a small sinus at 

 base. 



Mab. — Wisconsin. 



My Cab. ; Cab. H. Cuming, London ; A. N. S. Philada. ; State Coll., Albany, 

 N. Y. ; Smithsonian Collection. 



Obs. — A very beautiful and lively species. Bears some resemblance to M. 

 pulchella, nob., but is less elongate, more delicately colored, and of a less solid 

 texture ; the bands are often obsolete, and never so distinctly expressed as in 

 pulchella ; its spire is also more acute and the whorls more rounded. Com- 

 pared with M. brevispira, nob., which in form it resembles, it is more attenuate, 

 has a greater number of whorls, and its bands also distinguish it. Its delicate 

 yellow color also is not a common character in the genus, and forms a promi- 

 nent mark for determination. 



M. OPACA, Anthony. — Shell ovate, thick, smooth, of a dark brown color; spire 

 short, composed of about six convex whorls; body-whorl large, subangulated 

 in the centre ; sutures indicated by a narrow lighter line, and very distinct ; 

 aperture ovate, livid within ; columella indented and tinged with purple ; outer 

 lip a little curved ; sinus not remarkable. 



Ilab. — Alabama. My Cabinet. 



Obs. — A dusky inconspicuous shell of no great beauty. Only two specimens 

 have ever come under my notice, but I am persuaded, nevertheless, that they 

 are distinct — cannot well be compared with any other species. More smooth 

 than M. athleta, nob., and devoid of ribs, which that species has. Its dark, 

 dirty, brown color down to about the middle of the body-whorl and pale olive- 

 green underneath, together with its purple columella, may sufficiently distin- 

 guish it. 



M. poLCHERRiMA, Authony. — Shell conical, carinate, elevated, acute ; whorls 

 6-8, flat, upper ones obscurely ribbed longitudinally ; body whorl sharply anga- 

 lated, with a dark brown band directly upon the carina, and 2 or 3 below it, 

 one of which is very near the carina. Upper whorls with 2 bands each, widely 

 separated; sutures distinct, rendered more so by the neighboring carina; aper- 

 ture ovate, within 3 or 4 banded; columella rounded and indented, sinus small. 



Mab. — North Carolina. 



My Cabinet, Cabinet H. Cuming, London ; Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. ; State 

 Collection Albany, New York ; Smitlisonian Collection. 



Obs. — A small but remarkably beautiful species; its bright yellow ground and 

 conspicuous dark lines give, by contrast, a lively and pleasant character to the 

 shell. Compared with M. nigrocincta, nob., it is a larger species, its colors 

 are more decided, and its carina are also a prominent mark of difiference. M. 

 clara nob. is a larger and more globose species, its bands are broader and it has 

 no carina. It seems to be an abundant species, varying occasionally in some 

 of its characters, but always easily recognized. More than 100 specimens are 

 before me. 



M. TENEBROcixcTA, Anthouy. — Shell conic-ovate, smooth, rather thick ; spire 

 rather obtusely elevated; whorls 6-7, nearly flat, but with an obtuse carina be- 

 low the middle of each, and one more decided between that and the suture ; 

 suture well marked and with a pale band near it; — lines of growth decided; 

 aperture linear-ovate, within dusky and having 2 dark bands there, — sinus very 

 decided. 



JIab. — Tennessee. 



My Cabinet, Cabinet H. Cuming, London ; Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. ; State 

 Collection, Albany, New York ; Smithsonian Collection. 



()/)s_ — Compared with M. valida nob. it is smaller, less robust, more slender, and 

 may also be distinguished from that plain species by its more lively exterior — the 

 dark brown band or bands, contrast finely with the general color of the shell, 

 and with a light band near the sutures. 



[Feb. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 59 



M. VALiDA, Anthony. — Shell ovate-conic, smooth, olivaceous, thick ; spire 

 obtusely elevated, decollate; whorls flat, only about 6 remaining; sutures dis- 

 tinct ; lines of growth very strong, amounting to varices on the body whorl ; 

 aperture ovate, bluish white withia ; columella strongly curved, or indented 

 about the middle, white; sinus well developed at base; body whorl obscurely, 

 couceutrically striate, the strise forming faint nodules where they intersect the 

 varices. 



Hah. — Tennessee. 



My Cabinet; Cab. of H. Cuming, London; A. N. S. Phila. ; State Coll. Alb. 

 N. Y. ; Smithsonian Collection. 



Obs. — This species may be compared with M. tenebrocincfa herein described — 

 from that species it may be distinguished by its more robust form, uniform dark 

 olivaceous color and the absence of the dark bands so conspicuous in that 

 species. It has a very solid, compact form, and this with its regular, uniform 

 size up to the point of decollation, may serve to distinguish it from all others. 



M. GRAVIDA, Anthony. — Shell ovate, smooth, thick ; spire obtusely elevated ; 

 ■whorls 7-8, nearly flat ; sutures well defined ; lines of growth fine, but very dis- 

 tinct ; body whorl large, subangulated ; aperture oval, livid inside; columella 

 deeply indented, covered with a white callus ; outer lip curved forward, and 

 with the columella forming a small sinus at base. 



Mab. — Alabama. My Cabinet. 



Obs. — A stout, heavy shell, in form and color resembling in some degree 

 M. solida, Lea, but is more ovate than that species. Color light brown, 

 smooth but not very shining — lines of growth very distinct and curved. A few 

 indistinct striae occur at the base of the shell — the lower part of the columella 

 is often tinged with a golden hue. 



M. GROSSA, Anthony. — Shell ovate, folded, thick ; spire obtusely elevated, com- 

 posed of about 8 convex whorls rapidly attenuating to an acute apex ; whorls 

 folded, except the last two ; body whorl tumid, smooth ; color of epidermis light 

 greenish olive; aperture elliptical, whitish inside ; columella rounded; outer 

 lip much curved, with a well marked sinus at base. 



Hab. — Tennessee. My Cabinet. 



Obs. — A shore thick species whose chief characteristics are its bulbous form, 

 and short but prominent ribs on the upper whorls. All the whorls but the last 

 are remarkably narrow and crowded—lines of growth prominent — 4 or 5 striae 

 revolve around the base or the shell. Resembles M. glandula, nob., in form, but its 

 different color and texture, with its prominent ribs, will at once distinguish it. 



M. PONDEROSA, Anthony. — Shell conic, broad, smooth, olivaceous, thick ; spire 

 considerably but not acutely elevated; whorls 7-8, subconvex ; lines of growth 

 curved and strong; sutures distinct; aperture rhombic, rather small, whitish 

 within ; columella indented, outer lips much curved forwards forming a broad 

 well marked sinus at base. 



Hab. — Tennessee. My Cabinet. 



Obs. — One of the most ponderous of the genus. In form it resembles M. 

 canalicidata, Say, but has not the channel of that species, and differs also in the 

 aperture. The body whorl is strongly keeled about the middle and has another 

 and less clearly defined carina about midway between the first and the suture 

 above. The lines of growth are very strong and occasionally varicose. A 

 strong deposit of white callus is found upon the columella, which is much 

 thickened near the base. 



M. T.ENIOLATA, Anthony. — Shell conic-ovate, striate, thick ; spire elevated 

 but not acute, composed of 6-7, nearly flat whorls ; sutures not distinct ; aper- 

 ture sub-rhombic, small, banded within ; columella indented, callous at its lower 

 portion, and with a small but distinct sinus at base. 



Hab. — Alabama. My Cabinet. 



Obs. — A fine, showy, robust species, of a dark yellow color, enlivened by 



I860.] 




60 rROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



several dark brown bands, generally 2 on each whorl ; body whorl angulated ; 

 with one band directly upon the sharp angle, another in close proximity, and 

 a third quite distant and near the base of the shell. Band obsolete on the first 

 two or three whorls. Surface coarsely striate and obscurely ribbed. 



Melania glans, Anthony, being preocupied, I propose to change the name 



to M. GLANDULA. 



M. ASSiMiLis, Anthony. — Shell small, short, conic, Hot thick; spire acute, 

 composed of about 1 flat whorls ; sutures very distinct, of a light horn color ; 

 aperture small, ovate, dusky within ; columella indented ; body whorl angu- 

 lated ; sinus not broad, but well formed. 



ITab. — Tennessee. My cabinet. 



Obs. — A small delicate species ; compared with M. pallidula, nob., it is more 

 slender and elevated, has a greater number of whorls, and is devoid of bands. 

 From M. angulata, nob., it differs in being more slender, more carinate, and 

 having a more elevated spire. 



M. ctJBicoiDES, Anthony. — Shell ovate, smooth, thick; whorls 6 — 7, fiat, the 

 upper ones rapidly enlarging to the body whorl, which is broad, and acutely 

 angulated ; sutures distinct, rendered more so by a sharp carination on the 

 lower part of each whorl; aperture broadly ovate, within whitish; columella 

 deeply indented ; sinus small. 



Hub. — Wabash River, Indiana. My Cabinet. 



Obs. — One of the short, thick species, in form not unlike M. cuspidata, nob., 

 but differing by its sharp carinated body whorl and imbricated spire ; the body 

 whorl is also strongly striate and obscurely ribbed ; these longitudinal ribs are 

 very faint, but sufficiently distinct at the sharp carina near the summit of the 

 aperture to modify its outline into a waving subnodulous line. 



M, HTBEiDA Anthony. — Shell conical, elevated, nearly smooth, horn colored; 

 whorls 8 — 9, upper ones carinated deeply, lower ones entirely smooth ; color 

 reddish brown, or dark horn color ; sutures distinctly impressed ; aperture 

 small, ovate, tinged with rose color or violet within ; columella rounded but 

 not deeply indented; sinus small. 



ffab. — Tennessee. 



My Cabinet ; Cab. H. Cuming, A. N. S. Philada. ; State Coll., Albany, N. Y. ; 

 Smithsonian Collection, Washington, D. C. 



Obs, — A neat, pretty species, with no very strong distinctive characters ; 

 from intertezta, nobis, which it somewhat resembles; it may be distinguished 

 by its less acute form, less numerous whorls, and by its want of reticulated sur- 

 face so peculiar to that species. Bears some resemblance, to M. bella, Con., 

 but differs in form of outline and aperture, and has no beaded line ; is also 

 more elevated than M. bella. 



M. VERSiPELLis, Anthony. — Shell small, ovate, folded, rather thin ; spire not 

 elevated, but acute, composed of about 7 flat whorls ; whorls of the spire all 

 more or less folded, penult and body whorl smooth : body whorl bulbous, sub- 

 angulated, concentrically striate ; color olivaceous, ornamented with dark 

 brown bands, of which four are on the body whorl and one only on the spiral 

 ones, located upon or near the shoulder of each volution: aperture elliptical, 

 about half the length of the shell, banded within. 



£[ab. — Tennessee. My Cabinet ; Cab. H. Cuming. 



Obs. — A small and somewhat variable species as to coloration, though very 

 constant in other characters ; it is sometimes very dark both as to bands and 

 general color, and often very light with bands scarcely distinguishable and 

 many varieties between ; it seems not to be a very common species. 



M. coGNATA, Anthony. — Shell ovate, short, smooth, moderately thick ; spire 

 pbtusely elevated, consisting of 5 — 6 convex whorls ; color brownish-yellow 

 with three dark brown bands about the middle of the body whorl, and one 

 very obscure one at the suture ; suture deeply impressed ; aperture broad- 



[Feb. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 61 



ovate, not large, exhibiting the bands inside ; columella deeply rounded, in- 

 dented and callous; sinus none. 



jgra6.— Tennessee. My Cab. ; Cab. H. Cuming ; A. N. S., Philada. 



Obs. — A short, pretty species, with no very marked characters, though easily 

 recognised as distinct on examination ; in form and coloring somewhat like 

 M. compacta, nobis, but far less solid and heavy than that species ; the spire is 

 more elevated and acute and the surface smoother. It most nearly resembles, 

 perhaps, M. coronilla, nobis, but is less elevated and has not the peculiar 

 crowning ribs of that species, which is sufiBcient at once to distinguish it. It is 

 also more robust. 



M. coENEOLA, Anthony. — Shell small, conical, rather thin ; spire short and not 

 very acute, composed of five or six subconvex whorls ; whorls all more or less 

 folded and with revolving raised striae which give them a subnodulous appear- 

 ance ; the body whorl has four or five faint bands which appear also within 

 the aperture ; aperture small, ovate, sinus small. 



Hab. — Alabama. My Cabinet. 



Obs. — This is a small and not very remarkable species, nor can it well be 

 compared with any other. One is at first view forcibly reminded of Columbella 

 avara, Say, which it resembles both in size and general appearance. The 

 bands alluded to are often interrupted and never very fully expressed ; body 

 whorl subangulatvd below the middle ; does not seem to be a very abundant 

 species. Only six individuals are before me. 



M. GRATA, Anthony. — Shell conic, elevated, smooth, thick; whorls 9, flat, 

 terminating in an acute apex, the first three or four whorls being carinated ; 

 color light greenish-yellow, ornamented by a single dark band on the spiral 

 whorls, and four similar bands on the body whorl, giving the shell a truly 

 lively and beautiful appearance ; sutures very distinct; aperture ovate, banded 

 within ; columella deeply indented and curved at base, where there is a small 

 but rather broad sinus. 



Sab. — Alabama. My Cabinet. 



Obs. — The colors in this species are finely contrasted, and the general ap- 

 pearance is very lively and pleasing: the bands on the body whorl are not 

 uniformly distributed, the upper and lower ones being widely separated, while 

 the central ones are very close together and less distinct. Altogether it is one 

 of our most beautiful species. 



M. GEEMANA, Authouy. — Shell carinate on the body whorl ; form rhombic ; 

 substance rather thin ; varying in color from ash grey to dark brown ; whorls 

 six, upper ones smooth; suture very distinct; aperture rhombic, within 

 brownish, with a white area near the outer edge; columella rounded or angu- 

 larly indented, slightly callous ; sinus small. 



Ilab. — Cahawba River, Alabama. My Cabinet. 



Obs. — This is another of the short, rhombic species, which are represented 

 most fitly by M. rhonibica, nob., and includes M. angulata, nob., M. cubicoides, 

 nob., M. cristata, noh., and many others. From M. rhombica, it diff"ers in being 

 shorter and less slender, and by wanting the regular concentric strias so con- 

 spicuous on the upper half of that species ; it is also less slender than M. anffu- 

 lata, nob., and more solid. From all other species it may readily be distin- 

 guished. 



M. GRiSEA, Anthony. — Shell ovate, smooth, thick, of a dull grey color ; 

 whorls 7, convex ; sutures very distinct; body whorl obscurely ribbed, and 

 having two or three inconspicuous bands revolving around it ; aperture large, 

 ovate, banded within ; columella deeply indented, with a white callus, unusu- 

 ally thickened at the summit of aperture ; sinus broad but not distinct. 



Hab. — Tennessee River, North Alabama. My Cabinet. 



Obs. — A single specimen only of this species has come under my notice, but 

 I cannot consider it referable to any described species. The bands are very 



I860.] 




62 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



obscure, scarcely perceptible, and those within the aperture are arrested before 

 reaching the edge of the lip. The ribs which are inconspicuous on the spire 

 become more decided on the body whorl, and sometimes appear as varices 

 there ; the spire is very obtusely elevated. 



M. losTOMA, Anthony. — Shell ovate-conic, smooth; spire obtusely elevated ; 

 whorls about six, subconvex ; body whorl exhibiting uncommonly strong lines 

 of growth, curved and varicose ; color greenish olive, shining ; sutures dis- 

 tinct ; body whorl strongly but not sharply angulated on the middle ; aperture 

 broad-ovate, within light purple, which becomes very deep on the columella, 

 which is regularly rounded : outer lip somewhat produced, and having a well 

 developed sinus at base. 



Hab. — Tennessee. 



My Cabinet; Cab. Hugh Cuming, London ; A. N. S., Philada. ; Smithsonian 

 Collection. 



Obs. — This species approaches nearest in form and color to M. glans, nob., 

 now changed to glandula, from which it differs in being less globular, of a 

 lighter color generally, and by the angulated body whorl. Compared with M. 

 pinguis, Lea, it is less obese, more elongate, and has not the rapidly attenuat- 

 ing spire of that species. From all others it is readily distinguished. 



M. iNTERTEXTA, Authouy. — Shell conical, acute, and highly elevated ; whorls 

 about ten, each strongly ribbed longitudinally and furnished also with revolv- 

 ing striae, which becoming more elevated near the suture, arrest the ribs at that, 

 point ; sutures decidedly impressed ; aperture pyriform, not large, whitish 

 within ; columella slightly rounded, not indented ; sinus distinct, but small. 



Hab. — Tennessee. 



My Cab.; Cab. H. Cuming; A. N. S., Philada.; State Coll., Alb., N, Y. ; 

 Smithsonian Collection. 



Obs. — A very abundant species. About two hundred specimens are now be- 

 fore me, and present characters remarkably uniform. May be compared with 

 M. bella, Conrad, but differs by its more elongate and sharply elevated form ; its 

 ribs are more decided, and it has not the bead-like prominences, so common in 

 M. bella, and kindred species. From M. arachnoidea, nob., it may be distin- 

 guished by its less elongate but more acute form, difference of aperture and 

 less number of whorls ; the striae revolve around the whorls and over the folds 

 without being arrested by them, giving the surface a woven appearance : hence 

 its name. 



M. RiGiDA, Anthony. — Shell conic, elevate, carinate, rather thin ; whorls 8 — 9, 

 carinate and banded ; sutures distinctly marked ; aperture small, elliptical, 

 whitish within ; columella indented ; sinus small but very distinct. 



Hab. — Tennessee. 



My Cabinet ; Cab. H. Cuming ; A. N. S., Philada. ; State Coll., Alb,, N. Y. ; 

 Smithsonian Collection, Washington, D. C. 



Obs. — This is one of those sharply keeled Melanim of which M. bella, Con., M. 

 carino-cosiaia and ]H. obliia, Lea, may be considered good examples. The 

 whorls of the spire have each two carinae, with generally a dark band between 

 them, though this is sometimes wanting ; the body whorl has four or five of 

 these carinse and generally two bands, one of which revolves within the aper- 

 ture. To the touch this species has a peculiarly rough feel. 



M. GRACiLLiMA, Authouy. — Shell conic, thin, brownish ; spire very slender, 

 elevated, composed of eight convex whorls, the upper ones folded and striate, 

 the lower ones smooth, the striae being replaced by indistinct, slender, brown 

 lines ; sutures very deeply impressed, a sharp carina on the lower portion of 

 each whorl, rendering them quite distinct ; aperture small, ovate, banded in- 

 side ; columella indented ; sinus small. 



Mab. — South Carolina. 



My Cabinet. 



[Feb. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 63 



Obs. — A peculiarly slender, graceful species, in form somewhat like M. strigosa, 

 Lea, but more folded and more slender. The striae on the upper whorls are 

 very distinct where they intersect the folds, and give the shell a tuberculous 

 appearance ; the folds are arrested by the carina, which is elevated. The brown 

 lines on the body whorl are often slightly elevated, but nevertheless, indistinct, 

 and are about four in number. A faint line or band of a yellow color revolves 

 around the upper portion of the two lower whorls. 



Gyeotoma. 



As some confusion exists regarding the name of this genus, the following 

 Botes are given : — 



The genus Melatoma was established by Swainson, and first given to the 

 world in 1840, in his "Treatise on Shells and Shell Fishes," published in 

 London, founded, as he says, (p. 202,) "upon a remarkable Ohio shell sent 

 him many years before by his old friend Prof. Rafinesque." "It has," he 

 remarks, " the general form of a Pleurotoma and of a Melafusus, with a well- 

 defined sinus or cleft near the top of the outer lip, while the inner, though 

 thin, is somewhat thickened above." The other characters named by him are 

 such as are generally considered rather specific than generic, and the pleuro- 

 toma-like cut in the outer lip as applied to a fluviatile univalve is altogether 

 suflBcient to indicate the new genus. The specimen alluded to by Swainson, 

 and from which his generic description was drawn, was an imperfect one, and 

 the species has not since been identified by American naturalists. This is lesg 

 to be wondered at when we consider how very local the genus has always been, 

 and how few specimens have found their way into our collections. The waters 

 of Alabama have as yet monopolized this interesting genus, and it is probable 

 that even there it is confined almost, if not quite, exclusively to the Coosa and 

 its tributaries. 



On p. 342 Swainson gives the following generic description, adding a figure : 



" Fusiform, longitudinally ribbed ; a deep sinus at the top of the outer lip ; 

 base contracted, channel wide." 



Mr. Swainson's figure is quite unsatisfactory. His genus Melatoma is referred 

 doubtfully to Clionella by H. and A. Adams, and has not prevailed for this 

 genus in America or Europe. I have therefore decided not to make use of it 

 in this case. 



Subsequently this genus has been noticed by various authors, and other 

 names have been applied to it. In 1841 or 1842, Dr. J. W. Mighels sent me 

 specimens of one species under the name of Apella scissura ; but his generic 

 name was never published, and his species, if not identical with any which Mr. 

 Lea afterwards described, seems to have been overlooked and forgotten. 



On the 14th of December, 1842, Mr. Lea read a paper before the American 

 Philosophical Society, in which he describes Melania excisa and Anculosa incisa. 

 In his remarks upon these species he alludes to the pleurotomose cut in the 

 superior part of the upper lip, and at the same time suggests the possibility of 

 its being necessary, in consequence of that character, to construct a new genus, 

 which he proposed to call " Schizostoma." Mr. Lea finding his name " Schizos- 

 toma" preoccupied in Palfeontology, changed it to " Schizochilus." (March 5, 

 1852, Obs. V. p. 51.) In a paper read May 2d, 1845, Mr. Lea, in a foot-note to 

 page 93, first indicates the generic characters of Schizostoma as follows : — 

 " Testa vel conica vel fusiformis ; labrum superne fissura ; apertura ovata ; 

 columella laevis, incurva ;" and describes six additional species. 



In the above concise definition of the genus it will at once be noted that the 

 fissure at the upper part of the outer lip is after all the essential character ; and 

 Mr. Lea himself seems to be aware of this, since of the six species then described 

 he states the aperture to be elliptical in five cases and rhomboidal in the other, 

 although his generic character is "aperture ovate;" indeed in the species 

 described by him but a single one has the aperture ovate, and that one is 

 described as an Anculosa, 



I860.] 




64 PEOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



It mav be doubted whether Mr. Lea's first name will not eventually prevail, 

 since, before he published Schizostoma, Bronn's genus of the same name 

 (Lethea Geogn. i. 95, 1835-1837), had been called a synonym of Bifrontia 

 (Omalaxis) of Deshayes. (Vide Desh. in Lam. ix. p. 104.) Indeed, H. and A. 

 Adams (Gen. Rec. Moll. i. 305) do not appear correct in giving preference to 

 Gyrotoma over Schizostoma, Lea, on account of Schizostoma, Bro7in, since (on 

 p. 244) the latter name is placed in the synonymy of Omalaxis. 



Another generic name Schizostoma is quoted in Hermannsen's Index. I have- 

 not obtained access to the work containing this description, but its date is said 

 to be anterior to Mr. Lea's description. 



Mr. Lea's second name, Schizochilus, had previously been used in Coleoptera 

 but withdrawn before Mr. Lea's description was published. 



Mr. Shuttleworth, in July, 1845, (Mittheilungen der Naturforschenden Ge- 

 sellschaft in Bern, p. 88.) gives another description of the genus under the 

 name of Gyrotoma, founded on two species from the Coosa River, descriptions 

 of which are also given. 



The generic name of Mr. Shuttleworth has been adopted in H. and A. Adams' 

 Genera of Recent Mollusca (i. p. 305, Feb., 1854.) 



Dr. Gray also (Guide to Mollusca, i. p. 103, 1857) adopts Shnttleworth's 

 name. 



Such being the confused state of the synonymy of the genus, we have decided 

 to adopt, at least temporarily, the earliest pame concerning which no doubt 

 exists. 



Only about ten species of this genus have as yet been published, eight of 

 which are by Mr. Lea in 1842 and 1845, since which time few specimens have 

 been collected, and but two new species added. I now propose to add descrip- 

 tions of nine new species to the number already known, in one of which, " G. 

 salebrosa," we note a character not hitherto observed, except in what was per- 

 haps the original type of the genus, viz., a nodulous coronation upon or near 

 the suture, which nodules by lateral compression assume the form of folds or 

 plaits, thus approximating the longitudinal ribs of Gyrotoma cosfata, Swainson. 

 Gyrotoma bullosa, nob., herein described, also exhibits this character, though 

 far less decidedly; and as specimens become more common, we may hope to 

 re-discover the original type so long unknown. 



Gyrotoma becta, Anthony. — Shell smooth, cylindrical, yellowish, tliick : 

 spire stort, originally furnished with about 5 low whorls, of which 3 are nearly 

 lost by truncation ; fissure moderately broad, not quite direct and not re- 

 markably deep ; sutures lightly impressed ; aperture narrow ovate, occupying 

 about 3-5ths of the length of the shell ; witMn dusky and obscurely banded ; 

 columella callous, thickened abruptly at the fissure. 



Length of shell 11-16 in. Length of aperture 7-16. Breadth of shell | in. 

 Breadth of aperture 3-16. 



Hab. — Coosa River, Alabama. My Cabinet. 



Obs. — Tliis is the most cylindrical species I have ever seen in this genus. 

 In its general form and coloring it most nearly resembles G. demissa, nob., but 

 is longer, more elevated, smoother, and is ornamented with bands, which on 

 that species are entirely wanting ; these bands on the body whorl are three in 

 number, of which the middle one is the narrowest and least distinct ; they are 

 widely distant from each other ; the cord-like cincture is very prominent in 

 this species and the fissure is farther removed from the suture than is usual. 

 It is altogether a beautiful and graceful species. 



Gykotoma demissa, Anthony. — Shell short, robust, thick, truncate, of a 

 dark horn color ; spire flat by truncation, exhibiting traces of about four 

 whorls ; body whorl cylindrical ; fissure broad, waved, and rather deep ; 

 aperture elliptical, within whitish ; columella thickened along its whole ex- 

 tent, but most so at the fissure. 



Length of shell 10-16 in. Length of aperture 7-16. Breadth of shell 7-16. 

 Breadth of aperture 4-16. My Cabinet. 



[Feb. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 65 



Ohs. — A fine cylindrical species, whose chief characteristics are its very 

 smooth, polished surface, plain russet color, and flat, truncate spire ; the 

 lines of growth are unusually strong in this species, and the darker lines in- 

 dicating the terminus of previous mouths are very distinct and numerous, 

 evidencing frequent and many pauses in its growth ; the columella is much 

 bent near its base, and a narrow but distinct sinus is formed at about the mid- 

 dle space between the outer lip and columella. A single specimen only is be- 

 fore me, but seems so very distinct from all others that I have no hesitation in 

 considering it new. 



Gykotoma QtTADKATA, Anthony. — Shell short, smooth, fusiform, rather thick, 

 olivaceous; spire short, composed of about 4 very low whorls, the upper two 

 being partially obliterated by erosion ; fissure rather broad, waved, but not 

 remarkably deep ; sutures distinct ; whorls distinctly but not squarely 

 shouldered ; aperture elliptical, occupying more than half the length of the 

 shell ; within 3 banded ; columella with a light callous deposit. 



Length of shell 9-16 in. Length of aperture 6-16 in. Breadth of shell 7-16 

 in. Breadth of aperture 3-16 in. 



Hab. — Coosa River, Alabama. My Cabinet ; Cab. H. Cuming, London. 



Obs. — The most remarkable characteristic at first view of this species is its 

 short, square form ; its color is dark, and the bands which are very broad are 

 not very distinct; hence its general aspect is not so pleasing to the eye as many 

 others ; the fissure is broadly separated from the body of the shell, outer lip 

 very sharp and sinuous, forming, with the columella, a smallnot very distinct 

 sinus at base. In form it approaches most nearly perhaps to G. salehrosa, nob., 

 but is more delicate in texture, thinner, and has no armature as in that 

 species. 



Gykotoma bulbosa, Anthony. — Shell striate, ovate, moderately thick, dark 

 olive ; spire obtusely elevated, subtruncate, 4 whorls only remaining ; whorls 

 of the spire subconvex ; sutures very distinct, rendered more so by the 



Jhouldering of the whorls ; body whorl inflated, subangulated a little below 

 he suture, from which angle it shelves towards it, and having 2 or 3 dark, 

 broad bands revolving round it ; lines of growth curved and very distinct, al- 

 most like crowded ribs ; fissure perfectly strait, very narrow and not deep ; 

 aperture rather long, of a dusky color within and ornamented by 3 broad and 

 distinct bands there ; columella smooth, except at the lower part, where it is 

 slightly thickened. 



Length of shell 9-16 in. Length of aperture 5-16 in. Breadth of shell |in. 

 Breadth of aperture 3-16 in. 



Hab. — Coosa River, Alabama. My Cabinet. 



06s. — A short ovate species resembling in some respects G. oralis, nob., 

 herein described ; it is less elevated than that species, more ventricose, and its 

 surface is rougher ; indeed, there seems to be indications of obscure folds on 

 the body whorl of this species near the suture, which in very old specimens 

 may be more fully expressed, and thus bring it into close aflinity with J7. sale- 

 hrosa, nob. These folds, which were noted by Swaiuson as a generic character 

 in his original type, and which are wanting in all the species since published, 

 and now re-discovered, are exceedingly interesting in that connexion. 



Gykotoma ovalis, Anthony. — Shell smooth, oval, olivaceous, moderately 

 thick ; spire obtusely elevated, composed of about 5 — 6 convex whorls, of 

 which 2 are generally lost by truncation ; sutures deeply impressed ; aperture 

 broadly elliptical, banded within ; fissure direct, exceedingly narrow and 

 very deep, extending nearly one half around the shell ; columella slightly 

 curved by a callus. 



Length of shell 10-16 in. Length of aperture 7-16 in. Breadth of shell 

 7-16 in. Breadth of aperture 4-16 in. 



Hab. — Coosa River, Alabama. My Cabinet. 



06s. — A fine symmetrical species remarkable for its regularly oval form and 



I860.] 



5 




66 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



unusaally deep, linear fissure ; the whorls are somewhat shouldered, though 

 not so mnch so as in many of the species ; the spiral whorls are furnished 

 with two broad bands, one near the top of each and the other widely separate 

 and near the succeeding whorl, being often half concealed by it ; there are 3 

 bands on the body whorl equidistant from each other ; compared with G. bul- 

 bosa, nob., which it most nearly resembles, it is longer, more linear, and has 

 not the rapidly attenuating spire of that species nor its roughly striate sur- 

 face. 



Gyeotoma A3IPLA, Authony. — Shell smooth, ovate, rather thick, olivaceous; 

 spire not elevated, but acute ; whorls 6 — 7, subconvex ; sutures well defined ; 

 fissure broad, rather deep and waved ; aperture moderate, elliptical, flesh 

 colored and banded within ; columella smooth, or slightly thickened only at 

 the fissure ; body whorl striate, and banded ; whorls of the spire not banded, 

 but having a thickened cord-like line near the suture. 



Length 11-14 in. Breadth 7-16 in. Length of aperture 7-17 in. Breadth 

 of aperture 4-16 in. 



Hab. — Coosa River, Alabama. My Cabinet. 



Obs. — A fine symmetrical species of this interesting genus which hitherto 

 has not been very productive in species. Compared with Schizostoma funicu- 

 Jatum, Lea, which it most nearly resembles, it is smoother, thinner, more 

 acute, and has not the double cord-like lines of that species. Most if not all 

 the species of Gyrotoma have the fissure gradually filled up behind as it is 

 pushed forward in the process of growth, by a cord-like line more or less pro- 

 minent, often so much so as to produce quite a shoulder at the suture, and 

 this species is so marked, but it has no cord-like line in the middle of the 

 body whorl as described in funiculatum. 



Gyrotoma salebkosa, Anthony. — Shell fusiform, robust, thick, nodulous, of 

 a dusky olive color ; spire truncated, leaving scarcely more than the body 

 whorl, but indicating by traces on the truncation the loss of three or four 

 others ; fissure moderately open, waved, not deep ; body whorl, roughly nodu- 

 lous at the upper part and ornamented by three dark bands below ; aperture 

 ample, ovate, dusky within and bounded with three broad bands ; columella 

 deeply rounded, covered with a thick deposit of callus, white at its lower por- 

 tion, but tinged with dark brown at the fissures. 



Length of shell | in. Breadth of shell ^. Length of aperture 9^-16. 

 Breadth of aperture 5-16. 



Hab. — Coosa River, Alabama. My Cabinet. 



06s. — This species presents the unusual characteristic of a nodulous surface, 

 which character has not been observed in any species hitherto described by 

 any American author. These nodules are very conspicuous and much com- 

 pressed laterally, so as to present very much the appearance of coarsely folded 

 ribs, thus furnishing a close approximation to the original type from which 

 Swainson formed the genus ; on this account it becomes exceedingly interest- 

 ing, as indicating great variety in the specific forms of this genus, giving 

 assurance that among the many varied forms yet to be discovered we may at 

 last find the identical species sent by Rafinesque to Swainson. These com- 

 pressed nodules will at once distinguish it from all other species. 



Gyrotoma carixifera, Anthony. — Shell conic, thick, dark brown ; spire 

 obtusely elevated, truncate, though not abruptly so, six whorls remain, one 

 or two having apparently been lost by truncation ; carinations elevated, sub- 

 acute and found on all the whorls, two on each of the spiral ones and three to 

 four on the body whorl ; fissure direct, broad, and moderately deep, extending 

 about l-5th around the shell ; sutures irregular, much modified by the carinse, 

 and often concealed in part by them ; aperture ovate and banded within ; 

 columella much rounded, callous at the lower part only ; outer lip irregularly 

 waved, its outline modified by the carinae on the body whorl. No sinus. 



[Feb. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 67 



Length of shell f in. Breadth of shell J in. Length of aperture 5^-16 in* 

 Breadth of aperture ^ in. 



Hab. — Coosa River, Alabama. My Cabinet. 



06s. — This species cannot well be confounded with any other yet described. 

 In general form and in its armature one is very forcibly reminded of Melania 

 annulifera, Con., from which it differs, however, not only generically, but by 

 its more ovate base ; the carinse are lighter in color than the general body of 

 the shell, and are slightly irregular or sub- nodulous in outline ; it is a stout, 

 heavy species, and has a smaller aperture proportionally than is common in 

 the genus ; the bands within the aperture are five in number, very dark, and 

 the three central ones are disposed to be confluent ; a dark broad band revolves 

 around the base of the shell. Compared with Schizoztoma pagoda, Lea, it 

 differs in color, in its more elongate form, and by tne character of its carinae, 

 which are more uniform, the main variation being that they are more diffused 

 on the whorl, whereas, in Mr. Lea's species they are particularly conspicuous 

 near the apex. 



Gykotoma robusta, Anthony. — Shell fusiform, robust, thick, of a dark olive 

 color ; spire obtuse, consisting of one perfect whorl remaining, with marks of 

 two or tliree more, lost by truncation ; body whorl broad, ornamented by three 

 obscure, dark, wide bands ; fissure rather broad, curved, not deep, closed 

 behind by a cordlike cincture, very prominent, beneath which and close to it 

 is a narrow depression or furrow ; aperture narrow, ovate, banded inside ; 

 columella well rounded and covered by callus ; lines of growth very distinct 

 and much curved, rendering the shell rough by their prominence. 



Length of shell | in. Breadth of shell 9-16. Length of aperture 10-16. 

 Breadth of aperture 5-6. 



Hab. — Coosa River, Alabama. My Cabinet. 



Obs. — This is a large, robust species, somewhat resembling Melania ampla, 

 nob. in form, and not unlike it in coloring ; it is about the largest species I 

 have seen in this genus, and certainly not the least beautiful ; compared with 

 G. salebrosa, nob., herein described, it is larger, smoother, more inflated, and 

 has not the rib-like prominences so characteristic of that species ; the lower 

 part of the columella is somewhat flattened and thickened, and another thick- 

 ening takes place at the aperture, leaving a thinner space between the two 

 points. 



Anculosa ornata, Anthony. — Shell conic, rather thick, smooth; spire ele- 

 vated, composed of about five convex whorls ; suture distinct ; color dark 

 yellow, polished, with dark brown bands revolving around the shell ; three 

 bands visible on the body whorl and only one upon the volutions of the spire ; 

 aperture ovate, livid and banded within ; columella furnished with a callus, 

 often tinted with rose color ; sinus very small. 



Hab. — North Carolina. My Cabinet ; Cab. Hugh Cuming, London ; A. N. S., 

 Phila.; State Coll., Alb., N. Y.; Smithsonian Collection. 



Obs. — A fine species, so much elevated as readily to be taken for a Melania ; 

 the dark bands on a yellow ground give it a lively appearance ; about one 

 hundred specimens are before me, and present very little variation ; the dark 

 bands within the aperture are very conspicuous, one being near the upper 

 angle, two others near each other, but widely separated from the first, and a 

 fourth near the base of the shell ; the middle bands are often confluent, and 

 all of them are arrested by a broad area before they reach the outer edge. 



Ancclosa ligata, Anthony. — Shell ovate, smooth, of a dark green color, 

 rather thick ; spire obtusely elevated, composed of about four whorls ; suture 

 very distinct ; upper whorls flattened, body whorl constricted at the middle, 

 banded ; aperture ovate, banded within ; columella deeply indented, Gallons ; 

 no sinus at base. 



I860.] 




68 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



Hah. — Alabama. My Cabinet; Cab. Hugh Cuming; A. N. S., Pbilad.; 

 State Coll., Albany, N. Y.; Smithsonian Collection. 



Ohs. — This species, of which I have some twenty or thirty individnals before 

 me, seems remarkably constant in character for an Anculosa, and not readily 

 mistaken for any other ; its color, which is a dirty dark green, is but poorly 

 relieved by the faint bands on the whorl ; nevertheless, it is an interesting 

 species, and one which will always attract attention ; its most prominent 

 character is the constriction on the body whorl, which gives the appearance of 

 a cord having been drawn tightly around it while in a yielding state. 



Ancclosa coEPrLENTA, Authony. — Shell ovate or broad ovate, smooth, 

 thick ; spire rather elevated ; composed of 4-6 subconvex whorls ; suture 

 decidedly impressed ; aperture very broad, ovate, ample, banded inside ; col- 

 umella well rounded, slightly covered with white callus, and with a slight in- 

 dication of sinus at base. 



Hah. — North Carolina. My Cabinet ; Cab. Hugh Cuming, London ; A. N. S., 

 Philada.; State Coll. Albany, N. Y.; Smithsonian CoUec, Washington, D. C. 



Obs. — Cannot well be confounded with any of its congeners ; it is unusually 

 elevated for an Anculosa, resembling more a Paludina in that respect ; the 

 whorls are regularly but not abruptly shouldered, and are often excavated 

 with a narrow channel at the middle ; strise and even indistinct carinse are 

 often visible, but are not a constant character ; the bands within the aperture 

 are not always well defined and are sometimes wanting altogether ; when 

 present they are generally five in number, and are arrested by a narrow white 

 space at the outer lip ; body whorl often subangulated. 



Occurs in Dan river. North Carolina, in company with Anculosa canalifera, 

 nob., and appears to be very common. Several hundred specimens of various 

 ages are now before me. 



Ancplosa canalifera, Anthony. — Shell ovate, costate, of a brown color, thin ; 

 spire acutely elevated, composed of 5 — 6 sharply carinate whorls ; suture not 

 very distinct ; aperture about half the length of the shell, ovate, banded in- 

 side ; columella deeply indented ; sinus none. 



Bab. — North Carolina, in Dan river. 



My Cabinet; Cab. Hugh Cuming, London; A. N. S., Phila.; State CoU., 

 Albany, N. Y.; Smithsonian Coll., Washington, D. C. 



Obs. — One of our most curious and beautiful species, which no one can easily 

 mistake ; the whole shell is crossed with sharp, elevated costse running around 

 the whorls and corresponding deep grooves between them ; about five costae on 

 the body whorl ; a less number on the spire volutions ; these ribs appear as 

 dark bands in the interior of the aperture, and there is a broad non-elevated 

 band at the base of the shell ; differs from Anc. costata, nob., by the size and 

 piominence of its ribs and by its elevated spire. 



Anculosa vtridula, Anthony. — Shell ovate, of a uniform dark green color, 

 rather thin; spire much elevated, composed of 4 — 5 convex whorls ; sutures 

 very distinct ; aperture ovate, large, about half the length of the shell, livid 

 inside ; columella well rounded ; has a broad but not well defined sinus. 



Hah. — Tennessee. My Cabinet ; Cab. Hugh Cuming, London ; A. N. S., 

 Philada.; Smithsonian Coll., Washington, D. C. 



Obs. — In form and coloring this species resembles Paludina decisa, Say, when 

 that is about half grown, and but for its operculum one would hardly deem it 

 an Anculosa ; it is a plain, unadorned species, not liable to be confounded with 

 any other ; its body whorl is large and subangulated ; lines of growth well 

 defined and close ; it has a slight disposition to shouldering at the suture ; it 

 is not an abundant species so far as at present known. 



AwcuLOSA PATULA, Anthony. — Shell ovate, of an uniform dark horn color, 

 rather thin ; whorls 4 — 5, convex ; sutures very distinct ; aperture semicircu- 



[Feb. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 69 



lar, witliin •whitish ; columella only slightly rounded, somewhat flattened by 

 a callous deposit, more or less tinged with dirty red. 



Hab. — Tennessee. My Cab. ; Cab .Hugh Cuming, London ; A. N. S., Phila- 

 delphia ; State collection, Albany, N. Y. ; Smithsonian collection. 



06s. — Resembles none other of the genua ; its color, which is of a dull dark 

 brown, and its semicircular mouth, remarkable for its length and bre idth, are 

 prominent marks of distinction ; the body whorl is very much inflated and 

 angulated or subangulated ; the interior aperture is often blotclied with ir- 

 regular, dirty brown spots ; spire elevated and acute, rapidly diminishing to 

 the apex ; the lines of growth are strong, and on some specimens a single 

 prominent varix may be noticed. 



Anculosa elegans, Anthony. — Shell subglobose, smooth, thick ; spire de- 

 pressed, consisting of 3 — 4 flat whorls ; color fine glossy dark yellow, orna- 

 mented with darker bands, of which five are on the body whorl ; aperture 

 obliquely ovate and banded within ; columella deeply curved, with a heavy 

 callous deposit ; sinus very small. 



Hab. — Alabama. My Cabinet. 



Obs. — A highly ornamental species, which cannot be compared with any 

 other ; its bands on a yellow ground render it very lively ; it is heavier and 

 smoother than A. ampla, nobis, not so broad in the aperture and far more 

 beautiful ; neither is it so much shouldered as that species. 



Anculosa zebra, Anthony. — Shell subglobose, smooth, moderately thick ; 

 spire obtusely elevated, but slightly decorticated, and composed of four convex 

 whorls ; sutures distinctly impressed ; aperture broad, ovate, within bluish, 

 with the epidermal colors seen faintly through ; columella rounded, covered 

 with callus, which is thickened at the upper part. 



Hab. — Alabama. My Cabinet. 



Obs. — This species presents an appearance not often seen in the genus, by 

 its mottled, variegated epidermis ; the general ground color is gamboge yel- 

 low, but It is varied by blotches of very dark brown or reddish, often running 

 into diagonal lines, which gives the shell a very lively and pleasant look. 

 Only one other species is described as being similarly marked, viz., A.Jiam- 

 mata, Lea ; that species I have never seen, but the description does not war- 

 rant me in considering the two identical. 



In old specimens the spire is often produced and somewhat nodulous, while 

 the longitudinal bands become broken into irregular lines, so interrupted as 

 to become scarcely more than quadrangular spots ; it is one of our most beau- 

 tiful species. About a dozen specimens are before me. 



lo xaRRiTA, Anthony. — Shell conic, elevated, horn colored, spinous ; spines 

 rather short and heavy, about seven on each whorl ; whorls nine ; aperture 

 pyriform, about one-third the length of the shell, and irregularly banded 

 within ; columella rounded, slightly twisted and forming a short, narrow 

 canal at base. 



Length of shell 2^ in. Breadth of shell ^ in. Length of aperture | in. 

 Breadth of aperture 7-16 inch. 



HaJ}. — Tennessee. 



Obs. — This is the most slender and elongate species of this genus which has 

 come under my notice, and although a single specimen only has as yet been 

 discovered, its claims to rank as a species will hardly be questioned ; its long, 

 slender form, stout, closely set spines, and small aperture will at once dis- 

 tinguish it from its congeners ; two faint bands traverse each whorl, one of 

 which lies precisely in the plane of the spines ; lines of growth very distinct, 

 nearly varicose. 



lo BREVis, Anthony. — Shell conic, ovate, horn colored, spinous ; spines 

 short, thick, five on each whorl ; whorls about seven ; aperture elliptical or 

 pyriform, one-half the length of the shell ; collumelia rounded and sinuous 

 I860.] 




70 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



near the base, forming with the outer lip a broad, well defined canal at the 

 base. 



Length of shell 2 in. Breadth of shell 1;^ in. Length of aperture 1 in. 

 Breadth of aperture | inch. 



Hah. — Tennessee. My Cab.; Cab. Hugh Cuming, London ; A. N. S., Phila- 

 delphia ; State collection, Abany, N. Y. ; Smithsonian collection, Washing- 

 ton, D. C. 



Ohs. — Another of the short, heavy forms in this genus, so unlike the normal 

 type of lo spinosa ; we think no one need confound it with any other species ; 

 its short, heavy, flattened spines jutting out like so many miniature spear 

 heads and its peculiarly twisted columella will readily characterize it. The 

 columella is also covered with a dense callous deposit, increased in thickness 

 at its upper part, and often blotched with dark red at that point ; irregular, 

 ill defined, but broad bands are seen in the interior, often faintly visible on 

 the epidermis. Appears to be a rather common species in some localities, of 

 which I possess some hundreds of specimens. 



lo iNEEMis, Anthony. — Shell conical, smooth, thick ; moderately elevated, 

 composed of 7 — 8 flattened whorls ; suture very distinct ; upper whorls slight- 

 ly coronated by an obscure row of low spines nearly concealed by the pre- 

 ceding whorl ; shell otherwise perfectly smooth or only occasionally or ob- 

 scurely nodulous on the body whorl ; lines of growth very strong and much 

 curved ; aperture pyriform, curved to the left, banded within ; columella 

 twisted, callous, thickened above ; sinus long and curved. 



Length of shell 2 1-16 in. Breadth of shell 1 in. Length of aperture 1 inch. 

 Breadth of aperture § inch. 



Hab. — Tennessee. My Cab. ; Cab. Hugh Cuming, London ; A. N. S., Phila- 

 delphia ; State collection, Albany, N. Y. ; Smithsonian collec, Washington, 

 D. C. 



Obs. — Remarkable mainly for its plain, unadorned exterior and smooth 

 epidermis; its color is also lighter than " spinosa " or " fluviatilis ". No 

 spines are visible on the body whorl of this species generally, but I have a few 

 specimens which may perhaps belong to it, and which have a few obscure 

 spines near the aperture ; these are, however, little more than knobs. Some 

 hundreds of this species have come under my notice. 



lo SPiRosTOMA, Anthony. — Shell conical, broadly ovate, horn colored, 

 spinous : spines short, thick, seven to eight on each whorl ; whorls about 

 nine ; aperture ovate, about half the length of the shell ; columella and 

 outer lip much and regularly twisted, and forming a well defined sinus at 

 base. 



Length of shell 1| in. Breadth of shell 1^ in. Length of aperture 15-16 in. 

 Breadth of aperture ^ inch. 



Hab. — Tennessee. My Cab. and Cab. Hugh Cuming, London. 



06s. — This is truly a most remarkable species of this highly interesting 

 genus of Mollusks ; its difi"erence from the ordinary type of lo spitiosa is too 

 marked to admit of its being confounded with that, or indeed any other 

 species ; its stout, ovate form, short, heavy spines, and, above all, the peculiar 

 and graceful curvature of its outer lip, are prominent characteristics and readily 

 distinguish it. Among several thousand specimens of lo in my possession, 

 but three adult individuals of this species have been noticed, although I have 

 a dozen or more which seem to be immatiire forms of it ; it may therefore be 

 considered as not only one of the most aberrant and beautiful forms of lo, 

 but also one of the rarest. 



Paludina lima, Anthony. — Shell ovate, rather thin, dark green ; spire ob- 

 tusely elevated and composed of six convex whorls, which are strongly striate 

 or subcarinate ; sutures very distinct, and the upper part of each whorl being 

 flattened renders it more conspicuous ; aperture broad-ovate, about half the 



[Feb. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 71 



length of the shell, livid within ; c )lamella slightly roanied and callous 

 deposit small ; umbilicus none. 



Length 1| inches. Breadth | inch. 



Hab. — South Carolina. My Cab. ; Cab. H. Cuming, London ; A. N. S., 

 Fhilada. ; Smithsonian collection, Washington, D. C. 



Obs. — In general form not unlike our Wt-stern P. Integra, Say, from whicli 

 it differs, however, by its revolving, raised striae and by its carina, which are 

 also well developed ; the lines of growth are very strong, and decussating with 

 the stria give the surface a beautifully rough appearance, which suggests its 

 specific name. It is really one of our handsomest species, and so unlike all 

 others that no American species can readily be mistaken for it. In most speci- 

 mens the body whorl is very strongly carinate about the middle, and the outer 

 lip is considerably produced as in P. subsolida, nob. 



Paludina decapitata, Anthony. — Shell globular, thin, of a light green color ; 

 spire truncate, but never elevated under any circumstances, composed of 

 about four very flat whorls ; aperture broad, ovate, one-half the length of the 

 shell, within dusky white ; columella regularly but not deeply rounded, with a 

 slight deposit of callous, and having a very small linear umbilicus at base. 



Hab. — Tennessee. My Cabinet. 



Obs. — A single specimen only is before me, and therefore I claim it as a new 

 species with some hesitation ; it seems to me, however, too unlike any of the 

 ordinary forms in this genus to warrant its being included with any of them ; 

 it is the most globose of any species hitherto published, if we except the small, 

 round forms which were long since removed, and very properly too, to Amni- 

 cola ; the spire is entirely wanting, but traces of the sutures show the number 

 of whorls ; and its present appearance forbids the idea of its ever having had 

 an elevated spire. 



Palddina humerosa, Anthony. — Shell ovate, thick, bright green, imper- 

 forate ; spire rather obtusely elevated, composed of about 5 — 6 convex whorls ; 

 upper whorls smooth, body whorl and preceding one strongly striate and 

 granulate or subgrannlate ; sutures very distinct ; aperture ovate, nearly one- 

 half the length of the shell, livid within. 



Length about half an inch. 



Hab. — Alabama. My Cabinet. 



06s. — A single specimen only is before me, but it is sufficiently distinct ; its 

 granulated surfiice and the broad shouldering of the whorls are it^ chief char- 

 acteristics ; compared with P. genicula, Con., it is more slender, darker in color, 

 and its granulated surface is of itself a sufficient distinction. 



Paludina exilis, Anthony. — Shell turrited, smooth, rather thick ; color 

 light apple green ; spire elevated, composed of about seven volutions ; suture 

 well marked ; aperture small, broad-ovate, livid within ; body whorl distinctly 

 angulated, subumbilicate, and with very distinct lines of growth ; columella 

 well rounded and curved with a callous deposit, connecting perfectly with the 

 outer lip thus forming a continuous rim. 



Length 1| inches. Breadth | inch. 



Hab. — Mississippi. My Cab. ; Cab. H.' Cuming, London; A. N. S., Phila- 

 delphia ; State collection, Albany, N. Y. ; Smithsonian collection. 



06s. — One of the most slender of our American species ; Paludina subsolida, 

 nob., is more ponderous, more globose, and has a larger aperture ; no other 

 species approaches it in general appearance ; the whorls of this species taper 

 more rapidly to an acute apex than in most of the species ; compared with P. 

 Integra, Say, it is more slender, more solid, and the aperture is much smaller. 



Paludina subsolida, Anthony. — Shell ovate, imperforate, very thick ; color 

 light green, verging to brown in old specimens ; spire much elevated, com- 

 posed of 6 — 7 inflated whorls ; sutures very distinct ; aperture broad-ovate, 



I860.] 




72 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



about one-third of the length of the shell, within white ; lip curved forward 

 and forming a very conspicuous, subacute tip near its base ; columella well 

 rounded, a thick callous deposit covering the umbilicus. 



Length 2 inches ; breadth 1^ inches. 



Hah. — Illinois. My Cab. ; Cab. Hugh Cuming, London. 



Obs. — This is the most ponderous species in the genus, far exceeding P. 

 ponderosa, Say, in that respect ; compared with that species it is not only 

 much more solid and heavy, but its spire is proportionally more elongate, 

 whorls more convex, while the body whorl is less ventricose, and the aperture 

 is uncommonly small for a Paludina of its size ; the body whorl is disposed to 

 be angulated near its middle ; all the whorls are more or less shouldered and 

 the lines of growth are very conspicuous ; the body whorl is obscurely striate 

 concentrically, and its surface thereby modified so as to present a faintly sculp- 

 tured appearance, and the striae being somewhat finely undulated the appear- 

 ance under a microscope is very pleasing. 



Supplement to " A Catalogue of the Venomous Serpents in the Museum of the 



Academy," etc. 



BY E. D. COPE. 



Species 19. Teleuraspis Castelnaui Cope. Another specimen, obtained 

 in a collection made between Fort Riley and Pike's Peak, Kansas, with Scelo- 

 porus undulatus, Ablabes occipitalis, Bascanion flaviventris, 

 etc. As the same collection, however, contained a specimen of Liophis 

 r e g i n ae , the occurrence of the South American serpent in question was 

 doubtless the result of accident or mistake. 



P. 345. After Elaps altirostris insert 



64. E. Hemprichii Jan, Rev. et Mag. de Zoologie, 1858, p. 524. 

 One spec. Surinam. Dr. Colhoun. 



Our specimen diflfers from those described by Prof. Jan with respect to the 

 number of gastrosteges included in the black rings. In those the central ring 

 covers but one plate ; in ours, four, the lateral ones six or seven. The great 

 breadth of these rings compared with the light spaces, distinguishes it at once 

 from any other species which we have seen. The muzzle is short, and the 

 nostrils widely separated. Total length 11 inches. Gastrosteges 181, anal 1, 

 urosteges 27. 



P. 346, species 51. A more careful examination of the two specimens here 

 assigned, with a mark of doubt, to Elaps Marcgravii, has convinced us 

 that neither of them belong to that species, and that they are in fact distinct 

 from each other. The smaller we believe to be undescribed. After fi li- 

 f o r m i s Gthr. it is the most slender South American Elaps. Upon comparing 

 it with a young E. lemniscatus, which has a head of the same size, the 

 proportions of the body and tail are nearly similar, but the number of sets of 

 rings is rather less. The head is not so broad posteriorly, and the occipital 

 plates are a little more elongate. The principal difference, however, lies in the 

 distribution of colors on the head. This is entirely black above and below as 

 far as three scales behind the occipitals, except a yellow band behind the post- 

 ooulars. This covers the sixth upper labial, one temporal above it, anterior 

 third of the occipitals, hinder edge of superciliaries, and greater part of the 

 vertical. Superior labials seven, third and fourth coming into the orbit. 

 Distance from the black of the head to first ring, eleven scales. Eight sets of 

 rings, the middle not twice as wide as the external ring, which is as broad as 

 the yellow interval. Gastrosteges 197 ; anal 1 ; urosteges 19 pair. Length 11 

 in. 9 1. 



We propose calling this species Elaps melanogenys. 



One specimen, presented by Dr. Wilson ; locality unknown. 



[Feb. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELrHIA. 73 



E. Gravenhorstii Jan, loc. cit. p. 524, resembles this species, but has 

 a black half-collar only, and a longer tail. The preocular is very small, sepa- 

 rated from the nasal by the contiguous post-frontal and superior labial. In 

 our species the preocular is unusually large, and in contact with the nasal. 



Species 53. The three specimens here referred to frontalis D. Sj- B. belong 

 to a species nearly allied to lemniscatus, apparently undescribed. The 

 most prominent differences are, the exact equality of the black rings in width, 

 the shorter intervals between the triads, and the position of the first ring 

 which touches the occipital and last labial shields. In lemniscatus, its 

 vars. frontalis and baliocoryphus, in Marcgravii and deco- 

 ratus, the first black ring is several scales behind the angle of the mouth, 

 the intermediate space being red ; also the central ring of each three is wider 

 than the external. Distance between the middle and outer of the three rings 

 in our specimens of lemniscatus two and three scales ; inisozonus 

 (as we now call this serpent) four. In the former the anterior part of the 

 occipitals is crossed by a black band ; in the latter they are entirely white, 

 (red ?), except a little black at the posterior ends. 



E. isozonus nob. — Sets of rings twelve. No. 1, gastrosteges 201 ; anal 1, 

 entire ; urosteges 28, first 9 entire. No. 2, 218 ; anal 1, divided ; urosteges 26. 

 No. 3, 213 gastrosteges; anal 1, divided; urosteges, 29, two entire. We do 

 not know the part of South America inhabited by this serpent. 



Species 54. The specimen here described as Elaps baliocoryphus is, 

 as we now believe, a variety of the lemniscatus. It resembles the figure 

 of the var. frontalis D. Sf B. ("Marcgravii" Pr. Max.) in Abbild. 

 Naturgeschichte Brasiliens, differing in having an additional red (white) band 

 across the fronts of the occipitals. Whether Marcgravii D. Sj- B. be a 

 variety of lemniscatus, as believed by Dr. Giinther, or not, the latter is 

 certainly liable to great variation in the distribution of colors on the head. 



In place of E. baliocoryphus, insert 



54. E. filiform is Gunther, Proc. Z. S.'1859, p. 86. 



The head of our specimen is so badly mutilated that the characters could 

 not be made out withoxit difficulty. We are, however, much gratified to be 

 able to record our probable possession of the interesting species described as 

 above. It may be known from other American Elapses by its excessively 

 elongate form and the possession of but one postocular. In a few particulars 

 it differs from Dr. Glinther's description. The nasal plates are two : two tem- 

 porals bound the upper border of the sixth labial shield, the anterior of which 

 reaches the postocular. There is no light-colored band across the post-frontals. 

 Triads of rings nineteen, disposed as in the description. 



Preocular acute anteriorly, just touching the nasals ; hence the post-frontals 

 are bent down, and almost reach the labials. Third, fourth and fifth superior 

 labials narrow and high, eye resting on the suture of the last two. Gastros- 

 teges 308 ; anal 1, divided ; urosteges 42. Length. 21 in. 9 1. 

 One sp. ? Dr. Wilson. 



To assist further in the identification of the species of Elaps having the rings 

 arranged by threes, we have prepared the following table. Those marked with 

 an asterisk are not in the Museum of the Academy. 



A. Postoculars two. 

 Head compressed, lanceolate. 

 Labials not reaching the occipitals. altirostris Cope. 



Head depressed. 

 Sixth superior labial reaching the occipital. *decobatus Jan. 



Sixth superior labial not reaching the occipital. 



t Posterior part of occipitals included in a black collar or half-collar, 

 a. Neck surrounded by a narrow yellow ring. 



I860.] 




74 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Cephalic plates black ; an imperfect postocular 



cross-band. ^elegans Jan. 



Red, bordered with black. Sukinamensis Cut. 



b. Neck covered by the black collar. 



Postfrontals touching the labials. *GrRAVENHORSTn Jan. 



Post-frontals not touching the labials ; 



Geneial shields entirely black. melanogenys Cope. 



Red or yellow ; 



Scales between middle and outer black ring 



red. isozoNus Cope. 



Black with large white spots. dissoleucus Cope, 



f f Occipital shields not traversed by a black collar or half-collar. 



a. Rings absent on the belly, divided and alternating 



above. alteknans D. & B. 



b. Rings entire ; 



The middle one of each three more than twice as 



wide as the outer. *Ddmebilii Jan. 



Not more than twice as wide as the outer. 

 But twice as wide as the red spaces between the 



triads. Hemprichii Jan. 



Not twice as wide. 



First black ring just touching occipitals isozonus Cope. 



Some distance behind them ; 



Before the eyes uniform black. *Marcgbavii D. & B. 



A red band. lemniscatps Schu. 



B. Postoculars one. 

 Body very slender. filifokmis Gthr. 



Species 57. Platurus fasciatus Daud., add 

 One sp. Raiatea. Dr. J. Wilson, U. S. N. 



Species 63. Pelamis bicolor Daud., add 

 One sp. Pacific cpast of Panama. Dr. J. Wilson, U. S. N. 



We correct the following typographical errors in the Catalogue : — 

 Page 332, line 20, for "those " read these. 



" 333, " 35 : for " Proteroglyphis " read Proteroglyphes. 



" 338, " 12: for "Dr. Coleman Pemberton " read Dr. J. P. Coleman. 



" 338, " 19: for "plants" read flanks. 



" 341, Pelias berus : for " var. niger Bell,'''' read var. prester Linn. 



" 342, line 11 : for "Bbachychranion," read BRACHYCRANioif. 



" 343, " 19: for "H. pallidiceps Gra?/" read H. pallidiceps, 

 Gthr. 



" 343, " 33 : for " Sepedon Cuvier " read Sepedon Merrem. 



" 344, Bungarus fasciatus: for "Three sp.'' read Five sp. 



" 345, line 37 : for " E. Bert hold i," read E. Bibroni. 



" 347 " 5: for "Hydrophia," read Hydrophis. 



Catalogue of Colubridse in the Museum of the Academy of Natural Sciences of 

 Pailadelphia. I. Calamarinae. 



BY E. D. COPE. 



4. COLUBRID^. 



Essential char. — Superior maxillary bone horizontal, articulating with the 

 anterior frontal by a lateral process ; its anterior prolongation bearing teeth 

 neither perforated nor channelled for the reception of a venom duct. The 

 posterior prolongation uniting to the ectopterygoid by a horizontal, oblique 



[Feb. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 75 



articulation. Superior processes of the caudal vertebrae not elongated ; hypa- 

 pophyses bifid. 



Char, not universal. — Top of head plated. Belly protected by broad plates. 

 Tail cylindrical. Penis simple.* 



The Chersydrus granulatus has a compressed tail somewhat resem- 

 bling that of the sea snake's, and adapted to habits similar in many respects. 

 Yet even in external form it bears a greater resemblance to that of some of 

 the Boas, having a prehensile character. A comparison of the caudal verte- 

 brae of this serpent and the Hydrophis pelamidoides shows the follow- 

 ing difi'erences : In the latter the neural spines are slender and greatly 

 elongated, and the pleurapophysesf slender, elongated, and but little di- 

 verging. The "appendages" of the latter, which in all serpents appear in 

 the last dorsal and first caudal vertebr;e, and are doubtless the homologues of 

 the re-verted processes on the ribs of birds, partake of the same nature. 

 The hypapophyses are similar to those of the dorsal vertebrae, being undi- 

 vided, with the exception of those upon the first two vertebrae, whose pleura- 

 pophyses are destitute of the appendage. These are slightly bifid. 



In the Chersydrus the structure is entirely that of the Colubers. The neural 

 spines are short and compressed ; the pleurapophyses short and diverging ; 

 and the hypapophyses bifid, and their lateral moieties separated. Thus in 

 addition the difi'erence in the armature of the mouth, the structure of the tail 

 separates this genus from the sea snakes. Its position appears to us to be 

 between the Homalopsinse and Boidae, — connected to the latter by Xenoder- 

 mu s Reinwt., as indicated by Dumeril and Bibron. 



CALAAIARIN^. 



Calamakia Boie. Type C. Linnaei • 

 Isis, 1827, p. 519. 



65. C. Gervaisii D. cj- B., vii. p. 63. 



Four sp. Philippine Is. Mr. Cuming. 



One (young). " *' 



AspiD0RA Wagler. Type A. brachy orrhos . 

 Naturlich. Syst. der Amphib. p. 191. 



66. A. brachyorrhos, Gthr. Cat. Brit. Mus. 14. Sciftale brachyorrhos 

 Boie. Isis, 1827, 517. A. scytale, D. & B., vii. 178 ("Wagler" D. & B. 

 et Gthr.). 



One sp. Ceylon. Mr. Cuming. 



67. A. trachyprocta nobis. 



Form stout, not elongate. Tail short, thick, one-eighth of total length. 

 Scales in fifteen rows, broad, not imbricate, smooth. The scales in the four or 

 five rows each side of the anus, for a distance of from four or five scales in 

 front to nine or ten behind the anus, are marked each with a small recurved 

 tubercle near the anterior border. Anal shield entire. Superior labials six, last 

 largest ; the eye resting on the fourth. Inferior labials five. Posterior pair of 

 geneial shields separated by a central complementary plate. Head shields simi- 

 lar to those of A. brachyorrhos, except that the occipitals are more 

 rounded posteriorly, and the lower postoculars larger. Gastrosteges 135, 1 

 entire anal, 21 entire urosteges, and a small central postanal plate. Total 

 length 8 in. 2 1. Tail 1 in. 



Coloration. — Upper surface of head and body deep brown, becoming lighter 

 on the third and fourth longitudinal rows of scales, and contracted on the tail 

 to a narrow median vitta. A blackish brown band passing through the eye, 



*Coronella can a is one exception, fide Schlegel. 



tThese were inadvertently alluded to, Proceedings, 1859, p. 333, as "ha;mal spines." 



I860.] 




76 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



and along the adjacent edges of the scales of the second and third rows, 

 indistinct on the sides, but distinct on the tail. Superior labials and throat 

 yellowish ; belly grayish, largely varied with black, which forms an irregular 

 longitudinal band. 



This is a more robust serpent than the well-known brachyorrhos, and 

 has a shorter and thicker tail. While this has 21 urosteges, our specimen of 

 the other has 32. The latter has the scales in 17 rows (15 Gimther), and 

 they are more elongate and imbricate ; it has not the supplementary geneial 

 plate, and above all, the peculiar tuberculation of the ischiadic region. This 

 exists elsewhere only — as far as we know — in the Trachischium r u g o s u m 

 Gthr., of the Himmelayas, also a Calamarian, and is doubtless an assistance 

 to the animals in burrowing in the earth, and among unyielding objects. 



Another difference between this serpent and the brachyorrhos is seen 

 in the less elongated form of the head of the former, the rather shorter labials, 

 and much shorter geneials. The eye, too, is a trifle longer, and more anterior. 

 The coloration is quite different ; we only note here, the absence of the large 

 neck spots in trachyprocta. 

 One sp. Ceylon. Mr. Cuming. 



Haldea Baird & Girard. Type H. striatula. 

 Catal. Rept. Smiths. Inst. Serp. p. 122, 1853. Conocephalus Dumeril. 

 Prodrome de la Classification des Reptiles Ophidiens, pp. 43 et 46, 1852, and 

 Giinther Cat. Brit. Mus. p. 17. Not of Thunberg, 1812, (Orthoptera.) 



68. H. striatula B. ^ D. Conocephalus striatulus T>. & B., Erp. Gen. 

 et Gthr. 1. c. 



Two sp. S. Carolina. Dr. Edwd. Hallowell. 



One sp. N. Carolina. ? 



One sp. Richmond, Va. Smithsonian Inst. 



One sp. N. America. ? 



Tkopidoclonion nobis. Type T. lineatum. 



Microps Hallowell Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. viii. 1856. Not of Megerle, 1823, 

 (Coleoptera Oedemeritse.) 



This genus is allied to Ischnognathus D. Sj- B. Streptophorus 

 and Elapoidis agree with it in having divided urosteges, cariuate scales 

 and two internasals, but differ thus, Streptophorus, two post-, no preocular ; 

 Elapoidis, one post-, two preoculars ; Tropidoclonion, two post-, one preocular. 



69. T. lineatum nob. Microps lineatus Hallow. 1. c. 



Two sp. Kansas. Dr. Hammond. 



Streptophoeus D. & B. Type S. S e b se. 

 Erp. Gen. vii. 514. 



70. S. Sebse D. Sp B. Elapoides fasciatus Hallow. Journ. Acad. iii. 35, 

 pi. 4. 



One sp. Honduras. Dr. Woodhouse. 



Two sp. ? Gard. of Plants. 



71. S. atratus nobis. Coluber atratus Hallow. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. ii. 

 p. 245, 1845. Streptophorus Drozii D. & B. vii. 518, 1854, Giinther 1. c. 



We are glad to be able to restore the name given by Dr. Hallowell to this 

 species many years before that of the Erpetologie Generale. The specimen 

 described by him is rather paler than the others — ^justifying the expression, 

 " lead colored." The " six " superior labials is an anomaly, other specimens 

 having seven. None of the specimens have the dark color on the chin and 

 throat mentioned by Dumeril — but this is not probably an important character, 

 as Giinther does not allude to it. 

 Four tip. Venezuela, within 200 miles of Caraccas. Dr. Ashmead. 



[Feb. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 77 



72. S. bifasciatus D. §- B. vii. 520. — In this species the carinse are 

 very strong, and present on every row of scales. It is of a slender, elongate 

 form as mentioned by its describers, resembling the species of Ablabes in its 

 proportions. For this reason we question the propriety of removing this 

 genus from the neighborhood of Ischnognathus, where Dumeril places it, and 

 it is only the Calamarian form ofS. atratus that induces iis to consent to 

 the position assigned by Giinther. Our specimens of species being fresh, we 

 will note : that the superior surface is not properly black, but deep slate ; and 

 that the collar and inferior labial plates are light yellow. The black upon the 

 gastrosteges covers an extent rather wider than each white lateral band. 

 Three specimens, Jalapa, Mexico, Sr. Rapfhael M. De Oca. 

 One " " Mr. Pease. 



Tantilla Bd. & Grd. Type T. coronata. 



Catalogue Serp., p. 131. 



This genus appears to be quite distinct from Rhabdosoma D. ^' B., be- 

 ing characterized by a more slender body, longer tail, divided anal, and a 

 loreal plate, either united to the postfrontals or wanting. The latter two 

 peculiarities also distinguish it from Rhabdion D. Sf B. Posterior maxil- 

 lary teeth equal to the anterior, smooth. Perhaps Rhabdosoma elaps 

 Gthr. 1. c. 241, belongs here ; its anal scute is, however, entire. 



73. T. Hallowelli noh. Tantilla gracilis Hallow., Proc. Acad. Nat. 

 Sci. viii. p. 246. 



This species is accurately described as cited, and the differences between it 

 and T. gracilis pointed out. These, we think, are of specific value, and 

 accordingly name it after Dr. Hallowell, as a slight recognition of his many 

 valuable contributions to herpetology. 



The form of this species is more like that of Haldea striatulajB. ^ G., 

 than Carphophiops a m o e n a. The locality, ' ' Indianola, ' ' assigned by 

 Dr. Hallowell, is probably a mistake, being copied from I3aird & Girard's 

 Catalogue. We have one specimen brought from Kansas by Dr. Hammond. 



74. T. reticulata nob. — Vertical plate broad, slightly angular in front, 

 projecting posteriorly for half its length between the occipitals. Occipitals 

 and both pair of frontals rather broad. Rostral broad, visible from above. 

 Nostril in the posterior part of prenasal ; postnasal in contact with first and 

 second superior labials, preocular, post- and prefrontals. Two postoculars, 

 upper one in contact posteriorly with the occipital, the lower touching one 

 temporal. A second temporal equal to the first, and a third very small one 

 behind it. Superior labials, seven last largest, third and fourth entering the 

 orbit both low. Four geneials, anterior in contact with inferior rostral. 

 Scales in fifteen rows, last one slightly larger. Gastrosteges 148, postab- 

 dominal 1 divided, urosteges 67 pair. Total length 10 in. 3 1. ; tail 3 in. 



Color above chestnut brown, much darker posteriorly, extending upon the 

 tips of the gastrosteges. Anteriorly the scales are edged with darker, pre- 

 senting a reticulated appearance. Central dorsal row of scales lighter, form- 

 ing a pale vitta, disappearing on the tail. Third and fourth rows on each side 

 also lighter, forming indistinct bands. A collar of the same pale yellow brown 

 crosses the ends of the occipitals. Cephalic plates clouded and edged with 

 darker ; a deep brown mark extending from the occipitals to the mouth across 

 the yellowish labials. Beneath pale yellow, deepening posteriorly. 

 One specimen, Cocuyas de Veraguas, New Grenada, R. W. Mitchell. 



This species seems to be much like the T. c o r o n a t u m B. ^ G., but has 

 a much longer tail, and broader head-shields ; the upper post-ocular, not the 

 lower, is in contact with the temporal in the latter. See Pacif, R. R. Report, 

 X. Reptiles, pi. 38, fig. 96. 



I860.] 




78 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



Rhabdosoma D. & B. Type R. semidoliatum. 

 Erpet. Gen. vii. 90. 



75. R. semidoliatum Z). ^-5. 



Two specimens, Mexico, ? 



Six " Jalapa, Mexico, Sr. R. M. DeOca. 



One " (young) " " Mr. Pease. 



This species appears to be very common in central Mexico. The spaces 

 between the black spots on the dorsal region, described by authors as white, 

 are in life of a beautiful Vermillion color. 



76. R. fuliginosum nobis. Coluber fuliginosus Hallowell, Proc. Acad. 

 Nat. Sci. ii. p. 243, 1845. J Isoscelis et Rhabdosoma maculatum Giinther, Cat. 

 Brit. Mus. 204, 241, 1858. 



Six superior maxiUary teeth on each side in a continuous series, the ante- 

 rior longer than the posterior, but not longer than the middle two. Seven in- 

 ferior maxillaries on each side regularly increasing in length anteriorly. This 

 peculiar dentition induced us to consider this serpent a Lycodont, but sub- 

 sequent examination and comparison with Dr. Giinther's description of Ms 

 Rhabdosoma maculatum has persuaded us that the two species are 

 very similar, possibly identical. The most material diflFerence is, that the 

 ma cu latum has seven superior labial plates, the fuliginosum six. Of 

 those of the latter, the third is elongated, and with the fourth entering the or- 

 bit. Geneials one pair; vertical broader in front than its greatest length. 

 Postoculars two, temporals three ; loreal long and narrow. Color reddish 

 brown, a darker shade crossing each occipital obliquely and uniting behind 

 them into a dorsal band, which is soon broken into spots. These are obsolete 

 on the middle and hinder part of the body. No lateral series of spots. Belly 

 immaculate. See Hallowell 1. c. 

 One specimen. Near Caraccas, Dr. S. A. Ashmead. 



77. R. torquatum D. ^- B. vii. p. 101. " Brachyorrhos torquatus H. 

 Boie, Erpet. de Java." 



Superior labials eight, fourth and fifth coming into the orbit. One postocu- 

 lar ; one pair of geneials. The color of our specimen is a very deep brown, so 

 dark that the transverse series of black spots can only be seen in certain 

 lights. The opalescent play of colors is unusually beautiful on this account. 

 Beneath dark brown, posteriorly finely punctulated with darker. 

 One specimen, Surinam, Dr. Hering. 



78. R. c r a s s i c a u d a t u m D. ^- B. vii. 103. 



Seventeen longitudinal rows of scales ; two postoculars ; seven superior la- 

 bials, third and fourth entering the orbit. In these important particulars our 

 specimen is similar to those of Dumeril, but the coloration is totally distinct. 

 Though much bleached by the alcohol, the animal was, probably, pale brown, 

 each scale tipped with darker, with a dorsal vitta of the same extending from 

 the occipitals to the end of the tail. Beneath yellow, immaculate. 

 One specimen, Surinam, Dr. Hering. 



Cakphophiops Gervais. Type C. amoena. 



Diet. Nat. Hist. Univers. (dir. par M. C. D'Orbigny,) iii. p. 191, 1843. Car- 

 phophis Dumeril, Prodrome de la class, des Rept. Ophidiens, pp. 43 et 46, 1852. 

 Erp Gen vii. p. 131, 1854. Gunther 1. c. 17, 1858. Not of Gervais 1. c. 191, 

 1843. Celuta B. & G., Cat. Serp. 129, 1853. 



This genus is characterized by Gervais as cited, who refers to Dumeril and 

 Bibron ; but we cannot find it published by the latter prior to 1852. Carpbo- 

 phis Gerv. has the characters of Calamaria Boie, and hence cannot be applied 

 to the Coluber a m o e n u s Say. 



[Feb. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 79 



79. C. amoena nobis. Coluber amaenus Say, Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci. iv. 

 237. Calamaria amoena Schl. Ess. Phys. Serp. 31. Brachyorrhos amoenus 

 Holbr. Am. Herp. iii. 115. Carphophiops vermiformis Gervais, Diet. Univ. 

 d'Hist. Nat. iii. 191. Carpkophis amoena Dum. & Bibr. vii. 131. Celuta amoe- 



Catal. Kept. p. 127. 



This genus is characterized by the elongated form of the shields of the head, 

 and the distinctness of the latter from the body. There are two small nasal 

 plates, as in Rhabdosoma. 



80. V. Valeriae Bd. & Grd. 1. c. 



One specimen, ? ? 



HoHALOSOMA Wagl. Type H. 1 u t r i x. 

 Nat. Syst. Amph. 190, 1830. 



81. H. 1 u t r i X D. 4- B. vii. p. 110. 



Two specimens, Cape of Good Hope, Garden of Plants. 



Oligodon Boie. Type 0. subquadratum. 

 Isis 1827, p. 519. 



82. 0. s u b 1 i n e a t u m Z>. & 5. vii. p. 57. 



One specimen, Ceylon, Mr. Cuming. 



Genera 11. Species 18. Specimens 54. 



The stoutness of the body and tail, and the shortness of the latter, the in- 

 distinctness of the head, and the general firmness and rigidity, are characters 

 by which the greater number of the species of this sub-family may at once be 

 recognized. But as in some genera, certain of these peculiarities vanish, thus 

 approximating them to other groups, we have followed M. Dumeril in employ- 

 ing the dentition, which is here quite characteristic. Elsewhere, however, "it 

 evidently fails to characterize natural groups, as urged by Dr. Giinther in his 

 invaluable catalogue of the Colubrine snakes in the British Museum. We 

 have, therefore, omitted the genera Rhinostoma, Phimophis* and Homalo- 

 cranion, which have the posterior superior maxillaries grooved, and are perhaps 

 more nearly allied to Scytale. A single specimen of Scytale coronatum, 

 of a variety near that called S. Neuwiedii in the Erpetologie Generale was 

 described by us, Proc. of this Acad., 1859, p. 294, as Olisthenes euphaeus. 

 Our conviction of its generic distinctness was grounded upon the peculiar form 

 of the rostral plate, which while offering strong characters among some ser- 

 pents, here varies with the individual. 



* Phimophis G u e r i n i , the only species. It is Rhinosimus G u e r i n i of Dumeril and 

 Bibron, but the generic name was applied to certain species of Curculionid«E,by LatreJlle, 

 more than fifty years previously. 



1860.1 




80 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



Descriptions of new species of Cyrena and Corbicula in the Cabinet of the 

 Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. 



BY TEMPLE PRIME. 



1. Cyrena pond eros a Prime. C. testa subtrigona, inaequilaterali, trans- 

 versim irregulariter striata, epidermide brunnea vestita, valvis crassis, solidis ; 

 intus candidissima ; umbonibus parvis, obliquis, erosis ; dentibus cardinalibus 

 tribus ; dente lateral! ijostico compresso, antico breviore, acuto. 



Shell somewhat triangular, inequilateral, lines of growth irregular, epidermis 

 brown, valves heavy ; interior white ; umbones small oblique, eroded ; three 

 cardinal teeth ; posterior lateral tooth compressed, anterior one short and 

 prominent. 



Long. 1 4-5 ; lat. 1 3-5 ; diam. 1 2-5 poll. 



Hah. — Philippine Islands. 



This shell is remarkable by its weight in proportion to its size. It may be 

 compared to the Cyrena Bengalensis Lamarck, from which it differs, how- 

 ever, in being heavier, having less prominent beaks, and by being slightly 

 more inflated ; its epidermis is darker and more heavily sulcated. 



2. Cyrena Corbiculaeformis Prime. C. testa trigona, sub-inflata, in- 

 aequilaterali, intus violacea, epidermide brunnea vestita, umbonibus tumidis ; 

 dentibus cardinalibus tribus, inaequalibus ; lateralibus praeloiigis. 



Shell triangular, somewhat inflated, inequilateral, beaks prominent, pos- 

 terior margin angular, three cardinal teeth, the two posterior ones of nearly 

 the same size, anterior one less developed ; lateral teeth elongated, not promi- 

 nent ; interior of the valves bluish- white ; epidermis glassy, lines dark brown. 



Long. 1 3-10 ; lat. 1 2-10 ; diam. 7-10 poll. 



Hah. — Cochin in Malabar. 



This species is difi'erent from any Cyrena known to me, but bears much, re- 

 semblance in its general form to certain species of Corbicula. 



3. Corbicula r 1 u n d a Prime. C. testa parva, orbiculata, subaequilaterali, 

 tumidula. subtrigona, solidiuscula, epidermide flavescente vestita ; regulariter 

 striata ; umbonibus tumidis ; intus alba ; dentibus cardinalibus inaequalibus ; 

 lateralibus elougatis, angustis, subaequalibus, arcuatis, tenuissime striatis. 



Shell small, somewhat inflated, nearly equilateral, interior white, epidermis 

 yellow, lines of growth delicate and very regular ; umbones prominent ; car- 

 dinal teeth unequal in size ; lateral teeth elongated, carved, finely denticulated. 



Long. 7-10 ; lat. 6-10 ; diam. 6-10 ; poll. 



Hab. — Surinam River, Guyana. 



Compared to the Corbicula Paranensis Adam^, this species differs in being 

 more inflated, in having larger beaks and by its more regular lines of growth, 

 which give it somewhat the appearance of an Eastern species. 



The Hamming Birds of Mexico. 

 BY RAFAEL MONIES DE OCA. 

 Of Jalapii, Mexico. 

 No. 2. 



Cyanomyia. cyanocephala Gould. 



Ornismyia cyanocephala Lesson. , 



Trochilus quadricolor Vieillot? 



The Black billed Azure-crown, Gould, Monograph, partxi. 



This Humming Bird is commonly known by the name of Chupa-mirto, comun 

 depecho bianco, or common white-breasted Myrtle-sucker, It is found very 



[Feb. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 81 



abundantly, and at all seasons of the year, in the vicinity of Jalapa, Coatepec, 

 Orizaba, and many other places in Mexico ; but Mr. Gould, in his Monograph of 

 Humming Birds, states, that it is also found in Guatemala, and seems disposed 

 to assign that country as its proper locality. It is quite possible it nests there 

 also, but the fact that it remains in Mexico all the year round, and as I hare often 

 found its nest in the months of April and Jlay, I believe it is most properly to 

 be considered a bird of the country last mentioned. 



This pretty little bird is very fiimiliar and unsuspicioiis, and allows a person 

 to approach it very near in the Avoods, and is a constant visitor to the gardens 

 in the towns and cities. Like the fine species mentioned in my first paper, it 

 frequents the Mazapan flowers, around which it may be seen at all hours of the 

 day. 



The nest of this species is lined on the inside with the tule silky floss, which is 

 the case with nearly all the Humming Birds in this part of Mexico. On the 

 outside it is covered with moss from the rocks, in such handsome and ingenious 

 manner that would be very difficult for man to imitate. There are generally 

 two eggs, but on one occasion I found three in one nest. The eggs are white, 

 oblong, rather elongated, and large in proportion to the size of the bird. 



The upper part of the head in this species is of a most brilliant metallic azure 

 color, the upper parts of the body and wing coverts are brown, shaded with 

 bronze green; the tail and its coverts are of the same, but not so bright; the 

 wings are as long as the tail, and of an umber purplish color, the throat is 

 satin-like white, with the sides of a bluish green, or rather feathers of both 

 colors mixed together, very lustrous ; the under part of the body and the feathers 

 of the leg are dull white; the under surface of the wings is bronzed brownish 

 gray; the under tail coverts are of the same, but less brilliant, and with the 

 edges of each feather lighter, the feet, nails and upper mandible are black the 

 mandible is about one third black at its point, and flesh color at its base. 



Total length, A\ inches, wing 2A, tail \\, bill |- inches. The female is of the 

 same size as the male, and the or.ly diff"erence between the two sexes is that the 

 blue of the head and the white of the breast are of not so decided colors in the 

 female, although this diS'erence only occurs at certain seasons of the year. 

 The cranium of the male can be distinguished also from that of the female, 

 being rather larger. 



The Committee to which was referred a communication from Mr. 

 P. B. Du Chaillu, asserting that the Academy is his debtor for a 

 part of the^osts of a certain exploration in Africa made by him, 

 reported in substance that Mr. Du Chaillu has no claim whatever on 

 this institution. 



Dr. Carson said : 



Mr. President, — I rise to perform the painful duty of announcing the death 

 of our associate, Dr. Edward Hallowell, which took place on the 21st instant 

 from consumption ; and I feel that in connection with this announcement, it 

 is especially proper from me should come the remarks which will serve to do 

 honor to his memory as a member of the Academy of Natural Sciences. He 

 was not only an intimate friend, but one of long standing, having almost uni- 

 formly been educated together, at first in the Collegiate Department of the 

 University of Pennsylvania, then as students of Medicine in the office of the 

 late Dr. Hewson, and in the Medical Department of the University. 



In early life Dr. Hallowell was remarkable for his studious habits, and pro- 

 ficiency in the branches of his Collegiate Course. He always had a prominent 

 jwsition, and graduated with the highest honors of his class. To the Science 

 of Medicine, which he subsequently pursued with ardor, and in which for 



I860.] 6 




82 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



many years he labored zealously as a practitioner, he made important contri- 

 butions, in the department of pathology. His paper upon the subject of Cholera 

 Infantum is an admirable and original addition to the knowledge of that 

 disease, by which medical literature was enriched, and American medical 

 authorship advanced in estimation abroad. It is looked upon as authoritative, 

 with respect to the true pathology of the affection. 



As a member of the. Academy he labored industriously, and from the time 

 of his election was devoted to the interests of the Institution. His depart- 

 ment was that of Herpetology, and I may appeal to the collection for proof of 

 his usefulness, and to the publications for evidences of his ability to place be- 

 fore the public the large amount of new information derived from the materials 

 at his command. When a few years ago he was stricken down by disease, his 

 loss as a working member of the Academy was severely felt and lamented. 



As an associate Dr. Hallowell was a favorite of his fellow members. His 

 manners were always urbane and deferential to the views and feelings of 

 others, his temper was uniformly equable and not readily ruffled ; the kindness 

 of his heart was a perennial spring, while his sense of justice led him to 

 acknowledge the merits and the services of all who, like himself, were en- 

 gaged in scientific occupations. 



We have lost in him a worthy and beloved associate, and most sincerely 

 deplore his too early death, although to him it is a gain. 



The following resolutions were then offered by Dr. Le Conte and 

 adopted : 



Resolved^ That the Academy has learned with sincere regret the death of its 

 late member, Dr. Edward Hallowell. 



Resolved, That in Dr. Hallowell the Academy has lost one of its most en- 

 thusiastic and laborious students and valued associates ; one who has endeared 

 himself to his fellow members, as well by his high personal qualities as by 

 his steadfast and successful pursuit of science. 



March QtJi. 

 Vice President Bridges in the Chair. 



Forty members present. 



Dr. Joseph Wilson (Surgeon U. S. Navy) related that he had in his pos- 

 session, during some months, on board of the U. S. ship Vandalia, a female 

 whelp of a small Ocelot, {Felis pardaUs miniynus,) commonly-called "tiger- 

 cat." It was obtained in Realejo, Nicaragua, in the month of i^teember, 1858. 

 At that time it was too young to eat anything except milk, but gradually came 

 to eat crumbs of bread from her cup, and small scraps of meat. The animal was 

 light gray, beautifully marked with dark elliptical rings and spots, light un- 

 derneath ; ears quite short, rounded, with a lunated white spot on top ; the 

 tail about the length of the body and nearly black. She was of the size of an 

 ordinary cat, and weighed five pounds eight ounces when ten months old. 

 She was transferred to the Doctor's protection in March 1859, when her age 

 was conjectured to be four months. She was named Miss Tiger by accla- 

 mation, and became reconciled to her change of abode much more readily 

 than I was prepared to expect. The Vandalia was miserably infested by rats, 

 and in the course of a few hours she received her first lesson in the valuable 

 accomplishment of catching them. A young rat was caught in a trap and pre- 

 sented to her attention ; she hesitated but a moment, when she commenced 

 struggling to get at it, and when permitted she pounced upon it with great 

 fierceness ; she walked about growling with her prize, evidently proud of the 

 conquest. She afterwards played with it for about three hours, performing 

 - many fantastic tricks in the way of tossing it up and catching it as it came 



[March, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 83 



down, turning somer-saults and rolling over with it in her paws. After this 

 she seemed quite at home, and required no more lessons in rat-catcliing, 

 though she eventually became very expert. It occasionally happened that a 

 rat was seen or heard in a store room or corner from which there was no 

 secret escape, and in all such cases Miss Tiger was immediately called upon 

 and carried to the scene of action. She generally pointed out by her actions 

 the locality of the object of pursuit, and stood ready to pounce upon it on the 

 very first opportunity. On these occasions she sometimes made tremendously 

 long bounds, say ten feet. Escapes in these cases were very rare. She 

 eventually came to understand this business so well, that when called she 

 would run out and exhibit an eagerness to be picked up and carried, com- 

 parable to that of a child who expects to be lifted into a carriage. In attack- 

 ing rats she was quite fearless, and so far as known was never hurt by them. 

 She mostly seized them by the back of the neck or head, but was not at all 

 particular if these parts did not happen to be the first in her reach. She soon 

 crushed the skull by forcing her long cuspid teeth through it, generally kill- 

 ing her prey so quickly that it was not even heard to squeal. After playing 

 with it a moderate time, she would eat it, commencing with the head and pro- 

 gressing steadily till she finished with the end of the tail, only stopping a 

 moment to lick her chops, when she came to the heart or other titbit. Imag- 

 ining that the hair and hide were not very good food for her, I once partially 

 skinned one that she might learn to tear off the skin and leave it ; but this 

 was labor lost, as she immediately began to eat the skin, hair and all, in pre- 

 ference to the other part. Rats were sometimes taken from her and thrown 

 overboard, as she occasionally caught more than she could manage to eat ; 

 but she soon began to show her disapprobation of this measure by a very 

 startling, fierce and threatening growl. The first occasion it waked me up at 

 about midnight, and when I went out to inquire what was wrong with Miss 

 Tiger, I found her sitting near a big rat and growling in a very imusual and 

 startling manner at about six men whom she had driven from their beds by 

 her threatening. They were standing around her with various weapons in 

 their hands, but there was very little prospect of moving her without some 

 severe bites and scratches. As I approached a little nearer than the rest she 

 showed a disposition to take her prize in her mouth, and while her teeth were 

 thus employed I caught her by the top of her shoulders and she permitted me, 

 without the least resistance, to carry her off, rat and all, to a place on deck, 

 where her growling could not annoy the sleepers. She was frequently carried 

 off in this manner afterwards both by myself and by others. She would sit 

 by the hour very quietly near her property, till she was disturbed by some 

 movement near her, when she would commence with her threatening growl, 

 which was loud enough and fierce enough to make the firmest stand back, 

 till they had seen and reflected on the state of affairs. She had another 

 gentle, plaintive growl, which she used in calling for her breakfast and in 

 showing dissatisfaction on ordinary slight occasions. She had no cry which 

 could be compared to the mewing of the cat, but she could purr to perfection 

 when in search of a warm bed. Her favorite food was rare beef steak, which 

 she even preferred to rats ; but hunger and petting eventually induced her to 

 eat bread and butter for her breakfast, whenever she had a night of unsuc- 

 cessful hunting. 



The gentleness of this pet was really astonishing. She allowed herself to 

 be picked up by any body, without any worse mark of dissatisfaction than a 

 little growling. Even when feeding, and under apprehension that her rat was 

 about to be taken from her, she would not bite or scratch. She would play 

 with a handkerchief much in the same manner as with a rat. She was fond 

 of being handled, and when rubbed with the hand she would roll about on 

 her back and pretend she was going to bite, seizing the fingers between her 

 teeth, growling and biting with such cautious gentleness as not to be in any 



I860.] 




84 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



danger of wounding the skin. But one exception to this occurred ; one of 

 the officers attempted to play with her in this manner with kid gloves on, and 

 was immediately punished for his foppery by having her long teeth instantly 

 forced through both his glove and his finger. She may have perceived some 

 ditference between the texture of the gloves and that of the fingers on which 

 she was accustomed to try her teeth. She knew very well where to find warm 

 sleeping places. She would for this purpose visit the hammocks of the men 

 at night, and waken any sleeper she happened to fancy by patting him gently 

 on the face with her paw. If encouraged and welcomed by a pat on the back 

 or top of the head, she would lie down either against his breast or at his feet ; 

 but if refused by one or two very gentle boxes on the ear, she would retire 

 with a discontented growl and seek a more hospitable sleeper. How she 

 learned to distinguish between the taps on the top of the head as marks of 

 approbation, and those on the sides of the opposite signification, is a subject of 

 mystery, but there is no doubt of the fact ; perhaps some of the men may 

 have taught her the difi'erence by boxing her more energetically. 



She was very fond of licking the men about the face and gently pinching their 

 ears in her teeth ; and although she freqiiently engaged in this disagreeable 

 amusement, sue never wounded any one in the least while thus occupied. In 

 cold weather she was very fond of getting between blankets, and required but 

 the very slighest encouragement to crawl into the very middle of a bed and 

 roll herself up in this position for her morning nap. 



On one occasion it was noticed that she had a large tumor on the side of 

 her face, and a large abscess formed. It was at first supposed that she had 

 hurt her face in playing with a catfish ; some one, however, noticed that it 

 proceeded from an irregularity in shedding one of the milk teeth. One of 

 the officers, of uncommon zeal in such matters, proposed to hold her while 

 the obnoxious tooth was extracted. I determined to gratify him in this 

 matter, and to the astonishment of all he held Miss Tiger on his lap while I 

 extracted the obnoxious tooth with a pair of forceps, and neither of ns was 

 scratched during the operation. 



She was fond of dark places, and delighted in running about deck and up the 

 rigging early in the mornings and on cloudy days. When the men were 

 called aloft to furl "top gallant sails," she would jump to the shrouds and 

 have a race with them up the rigging, and with very little effort she was ' ' first 

 man in the top. ' ' 



She generally showed so much excitement in the presence of birds, that 

 doubtless her instinct would lead her to seize them. She killed three or four 

 chickens at different times secretly, and off Cape Horn she seized and killed 

 an albatross of at least double her weight. A common green parrot was 

 at one time on board and she was exceedingly eager to get at it, but she 

 was boxed a little on the ears and her head turned the other way a few times, 

 till she appeared to understand that it was not for her. Subsequently, when 

 she appeared to be watching it too intently, she was boxed a little and driven, 

 till in about a week she seemed to regard it as one of the family. 



In the beginning of December we were passing the "West India Islands, the 

 ship, in her course, starting flocks of flying fish, in which Miss Tiger became 

 interested, they looked so much like birds. She was observed in the moon- 

 light watching them very intently. Her absence was noticed at breakfast. 

 A search through the ship made it certain she had been lost overboard 

 during the night. 



March Uth. 

 Mr. Lea, President, in the Chair. 



Forty members present. 



[March, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. • 85 



The following papers were presented for publication : 



" Description of four new species of Unionidae from Brazil, by Isaac 



Lea." " Description of fifteen new species of Uruguayan Unionidae,by 



Isaac Lea." 



And were referred to a Committee. 



Mr. Lea stated that when he made some remarks, a few weeks since, on the 

 Unionidm of the United States, he gave the namber of them iacorrectly by an 

 inadvertence. He now desired to restate them numerically : 



Unio, . . 465 species. 



Margaritana, ......... 26 " 



Anodonta, 59 '• 



550 

 To these may be added, new species in his cabinet not yet 



described, ........ 30 



» . 



580 

 And to these may be added, for North America, known to 

 inhabit Mexico, Honduras, Central America and 

 one in Canada, Unio, 29 



Anodonta, 8 



— 37 



617 

 It will be observed that we have not in North America either of the genera 

 Triqiietra, {IIi/ria,La.m.,) Prisodon, {Castalia, La,m.,) Monoco7id(/laea, Mycctopus^ 

 Bi/ssandonta, or Plagiodon. They are all emphatically South American types, 

 while there does not seem to inhabit the southern half of America a single 

 species of Margaritana, {Alasmodonia, Say.) Ferussac has described a species 

 (A. incurva) as coming from South America, but there is reasonable doubt of 

 it. The Monoco7idyloea and Margaritana seem mutually to replace each other. 

 The Uniones and Anodonta^ prevail in both parts of the continent over all the 

 other genera, both as to numbers and universality of distribution. The genus 

 Mulleria, (^Acosiea, D'Orb.) has only been found in the tributaries of the Mag- 

 dalena in New Granada. 



Dr. Leidy called th.e attention of the members to a specimen of the singular 

 body,named Hyalonema mirabilis, recently presented by Dr. Ruschenberger. 

 It is the second specimen obtained within a short time for the Academy. Both 

 are from Japan. The specimen of Hyalonema exhibited, consists of a twisted 

 cord of siliceous spiculje over a foot in length, and about half an inch in 

 diameter. Twisted around it is a coriaceous membrane with wart-like eminen- 

 ces, belonging to a zoophyte, which Dr. L. regards with M. Valenciennes as 

 parasitic. The cord of siliceous spicule, Dr. J. E. Gray supposes to be the 

 axis of the zoophyte, but Dr. L. with M. Valenciennes, views it as belonging 

 to a sponge. This latter view is apparently confirmed by a specimen of a 

 sponge, in the cabinet of the Academy, from Santa Cruz, presented by the late 

 Dr. Griffith. This sponge is an oblong oval mass, about four inches long, sur- 

 mounted at one extremity with a corona of twisted cords of siliceous spiculse 

 about two inches in length. These spicule are very similar in structure to 

 those of the Hyalonema, mainly differing in size. 



The Publication Committee laid on the table, part 3, vol. 4, of the 

 Journal of the Academy. 

 I860.] 




86 ^ PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Marcli 20th. 

 Mr. Lea, President, in the Chair. 



Forty-two members present. 



The following papers were presented for publication : 



"Descriptions of new species of Cretaceous Fossils froml^ew Jersey, 

 by W. M. Gabb." 



" Description of four new species of Melanidse of the United States, 

 by Isaac Lea." 



" Description of five new species of Uniones from Alabama, by Isaac 

 Lea." 



And were referred to Committees. 



Dr. Leidy announced the presentation by Dr. T. B. "Wilson of his 

 entire collection of birds, amounting to 26,000 mounted specimens, 

 and 2,000 skins. 



Mr. Cassin said, in relation to the presentation of the collection of 

 birds now in the Museum of this Academy, by Dr. T. B. Wilson : 



The collection of birds in the Museum of the Academy has been 

 regarded for some years as the collection of this Academy, and is ex- 

 tensively known and referred to as such by authors and naturalists. 

 The donation this evening, so liberally and characteristically made by 

 Dr. Wilson, involves only a change of ownership, or transfer of title, 

 with the further important consideration that it secures the collection 

 to the Academy, as intended by Dr. Wilson, in perpetuity and without 

 contingency. 



Previous to this donation the collection has been the private property 

 of Dr. Wilson, and has been accumulated from various sources, since 

 1845, with great judgment, and with constant and unremitted exertion 

 on his part and also on the part of his brother, Mr. Edward Wilson, 

 long resident in Europe. The latter named gentleman has most ably 

 and successfully seconded his brother in the greatest enterprises ever 

 entered upon in America, having for their object the promotion of the 

 Zoological Sciences and of general Natural History. The results mainly 

 have been, at this period, the formation of the Library of this Academy 

 and of its collections in all departments, but especially in 3Iineralogy, 

 Paleontology, Conchology, Crustacea, lethyology and Ornithology. 



The very extensive and comprehensive series now presented, with 

 the comparatively small collection previously owned by the Academy, 

 comprise one of the most complete Ornithological Museums extant. It 

 is, in fact, one of the four great collections of birds in the world, and, 

 so far as can be ascertained from published catalogues, is fairly entitled 

 to be considered as presenting facilities for study in this favorite 

 branch of Natural History equal to those of any other Institution. 



Mainly, the collection of Dr. Wilson was based on that of General 

 Massena, Duke of Rivoli, and his son, M. Victor Massena, Prince 

 D'Essling, which was regarded as the finest private collection in 

 Europe. This was acquired by purchase in 1846, and brought to this 

 country. Various other valuable and more or less extensive collections 



[March, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 87 



have been added since that period, including Mr. Gould's Australian 

 birds, which are the types of his great work, " The Birds of Austra- 

 lia," and embracing all the species then known, except five only. 

 Another important collection, mainly Parrots, Humming Birds and 

 Tanagers, was that of M. Bourcier, a distinguished French Ornitholo- 

 gist, and quite equally so was a collection made in the interior coun- 

 tries of India by Capt. Boys, of the East India Company's service. 

 Very important, too, are collections from the Leyden Museum, through 

 the influence of the eminent naturalists now or lately attached to that 

 great Institution, particularly the celebrated Temminck, and many 

 others obtained in Europe through the faithful and judicious exertions 

 of 3Ir. Edward Wilson for the interests of this Academy. 



Numerous other smaller additions have been made, whenever oppor- 

 tunity presented, in this country, by Dr. Wilson, and also have been 

 derived from European Naturalists by exchange and purchase to the 

 extent of several thousand specimens. Messrs. Verreaux, the well-known 

 commercial Naturalists and Ornithologists of Paris, have been of ex- 

 ceeding service, and but little less so has been Mr. John G. Bell, of 

 New York, the principal commercial Naturalist in this country, whose 

 high interest in the prosperity of the Academy and scientific know- 

 ledge has never failed to be exerted and always has been of great value 

 in the extension of the collection. Mr. John Krider, Mr. William S. 

 Wood and Mr. James Taylor, of this city, have also furnished to Dr. 

 Wilson many valuable specimens, and all of these gentlemen have in- 

 variably shown the utmost cheerfulness and liberality in their business 

 with the 3Iuseum of the Academy. 



The collection now presented by Dr. Wilson has been derived from 

 the following sources, and includes specimens nearly as here enumer- 

 ated : 



Kivoli collection, 1st purchase, 

 do. do. 2d do. ... 



Mr. Gould's Australian collection, - 



M. Bourcier's collection, . . . - 



Capt. Boys' collection, . - - - 



Mr. Edward Wilson's collections in Europe, 

 including collections from the Leyden and Bri- 

 tish Museums, ...... 



Dr. Thos. B. Wilson's collections in Europe, 

 do. do. do. in the U. S., 



Total now presented to the Academy, 26,000 " 



It may be of interest to add that the collection previously owned by 

 the Academy comprises about 3000 specimens, including a very supe- 

 rior North American series derived from nearly all ornithologists in 

 the United States, who have invariably shown the greatest interest in 

 the formation of the large collection of this Academy. The aggregate 

 number of specimens exhibited and now belonging to the Academy is 

 therefore about twenty-nine thousand birds. 

 1860.] 




8S PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Mr. Lea read extracts from letters of Dr. Lewis, of Mohawk, New York, on 

 the subject of the coloring matter of the nacre of the genus Unio, and exhibited 

 some fine specimens to illustrate the subject. The following extracts will fully 

 convey Dr. Lewis's ideas on this subject which has much interest with the 

 naturalist. 



'■ I hinted something about Uniones being colored with an oxide or salt of 

 gold. My reasons for this are derived from observing some singular phenomena 

 in colors on submitting shells to the action of chloride of gold, and then bring- 

 ing them in contact with tin. Whether a stannate of gold formed and precipi- 

 tated on the shells or not, I cannot say, but the colors were very much intensi- 

 fied. It is to be remarked that the colors of such shells as Unio complanatus 

 and of U. ligamentinus, when colored, are such as result from the presence of gold 

 in a state of atomic division and dissemination in a semi-opake body. I think 

 nitro-muriatic acid with a minuts trace of gold in it, if applied to shells, will 

 produce colors, but I never have satisfactorily demonstrated this. My observa- 

 tions are derived from having once used acid in which was a small quantity of 

 gold, too small to be reclaimed." 



" I notice that colors are most brilliant in regions where gold may be sus- 

 pected. In the Lake regions of the Western States, minerals are abundant, 

 and the conditions are not incompatible with the supposition that gold is spar- 

 ingly disseminated among them, in quantities too small perhaps to be available, 

 hut no doubt it is thei-e." 



" As regards colors in the 7iacre of Uniones, you are correct in saying that 

 Uniones are colored where there is 710 gold. Hut there are some species that are 

 not colored unless you find them in some particular localities. If that is taken 

 into consideration we shall, perhaps, be more ready to accept the gold theory. 

 Modern investigations show that gold exists in soils that, until they were rigidly 

 tested, were not suspected to contain it. In fact I am disposed to believe that 

 gold is more universally disseminated than is generally supposed." 



•' But, the question is one I take no particular interest in, except that it pre- 

 sents itself incidentally. I know one fact that you also know. That of two 

 streams producing identically the same species, one will give a large propor- 

 tion of white nacres, and the other will present colored nacres, and usually we 

 also notice another phenomenon — a greater brilliancy of nacre where rich colors 

 abound. In this case I have my private opinion that gold produces its peculiar 

 tonic effect, for tonic it is under certain circumstances by increasing the secre- 

 tions." 



" To have gold in a shell, it is not necessary it should be an oxide. It is only 

 necessarj' it should have been received into the circulation of the animal, in 

 solution as chloride, or some other possible soluble form that chemistry has not 

 brought to light; and when once in the circulation it may be eliminated by be- 

 ing deprived of its solving principle and excreted or secreted with the other 

 solid matter that enters into the formation of the shell. The stannate of gold, or 

 purple of Cassius, may be wholly deprived of the tin associated with it, yet re- 

 tain its purple color, and its condition of atomic division, if so you are pleased 

 to call it. But I only offer this as suggestive of something for those interested 

 to follow further. I am not enough of a chemist to develop any facts out of a 

 suspicion of this kind." 



Mr. Lea remarked, after reading the above extracts, that the purple, pink and 

 salmon color of many of our American Unionidce had had his attention from the 

 period of his first studying this beautiful and interesting family, more than thirty 

 years since. Without having experimented himself upon them, he vras aware 

 that no chemist had been able to detect the presence of a metal or other 

 elementary body. He therefore thought it likely to be caused by the presence 

 of some organic body which had not yet been detected; such is supposed by 

 chemists to be the case with the colored fluates of lime, colored quartz, &c. 

 What Dr. Lewis states as regards the colors being more frequent and more in- 

 tense in the waters of Michigan and in the streams leading into the northern 



[March, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 89 



great lakes from the southern side, is very true. The Unio rectus is usually 

 white ia the Ohio, though sometimes tinted with purple and salmon color, while 

 in the more northern waters it is usually of a fine rich purple or salmon. Two 

 specimens from the upper Mississippi, brought by Dr. Cooper, were exhibited 

 by Mr. Lea, which were of exquisite purple and salmon. The Unio ligamentinus 

 has probably never been found pink or purple in the Ohio, while at Grand 

 Rapids, Michigan, those with a fine pink and salmon color are very common. 

 The Margaritana margaritifera of Columbia river and its tributaries has a fine 

 purple nacre in almost all the specimens, rarely white, while those in the rivers 

 of Pennsylvania, Connecticut and Massachusetts are almost universally white, 

 as those from the northern part of Europe are also. 



Dr. Draper had informed Mr. Lea that he had calcined some of these purple 

 shells, but that they had burned white and he had not detected any metallic sub- 

 tance in their composition. The subject was certainly one well worth the pursuit, 

 as no doubt could remain that the color was derived from some foreign sub- 

 stance entering into the composition of some individuals, while others were 

 free from it. It was not an uncommon case to find the dorsal portion of 

 the nacre to be pink or purple while the other portions were white, and this was 

 also sometimes the case with the cavity of the beaks. Mr. Lea did not believe 

 the color arose, as some persons supposed, from the structure of the surface of 

 the nacre dividing the rays of light by thin laminations. This division of 

 color was exhibited in almost every species, and is what naturalists call the 

 "pearly hue," oftentimes of great beauty, but quite a different matter from 

 the pink, purple and salmon color of the mass of the carbonate of lime com- 

 posing the substance of the valves. 



March 27th, 



Mr. Lea, President, in the Chair. 



Forty-eight members present. 



The following papers on report of the respective committees were 

 ordered to be printed in the Proceedings: 



Descriptions of Four New Species of TTNIONID.S from Brazil and Baenos Ayres . 



BY ISAAC LEA. 



Unio trifidus. — Testa laevi, obliquo-oblonga, ad latere planulata, valde ia- 

 asquilaterali, postice acute angulata, antice rotunda ; valvulis crassiusculis, 

 antice crassioribus ; natibus prominentibus, ad apices rugose et divaricate un- 

 dulatis ; epidermide micante, luteo-viridi, eradiata ; dentibus cardinalibus 

 grandibus, trifidis, sulcatis ; lateralibus longis, crenulatis, in valvulo dextro 

 trifidis ; margarita argentea et iridescente. 



Ilab. — Buenos Ayres, South America. M. D'Orbigny. 



Unio patelloides. — Testa Isevi, subrotunda, subcompressa, subaequilaterali, 

 antice et postice rotundata; valvulis subcrassis, antice crassioribus; natibus 

 prominulis, ad apices divaricate undulatis; epidermide tenebroso-castanea, 

 striata, eradiata ; dentibus cardinalibus longis, compressis, obliquis, crenulatis 

 corrugatisque ; lateralibus longis, crenulatis curvisque ; margarita argentea 

 et iridescente. 



Ilab. — Amazon River, Brazil. Captain George Brown. Rio Plata. H. Cum- 

 ing. 



Anodonta Amazonensis. — Testa Isevi, transversa, subinflata, valde insequi- 

 laterali, postice subbiangulata, antice rotunda; valvulis subcrassis; natibus 



I860.] 




90 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



subelevatis, tumidis ; epidermide micante, tenebroso-viridi, nigricante, vel era- 

 diata vel obsolete radiata ; margarita intus subrosea et valde iridesceate. 

 Hab. — Upper Amazon, Brazil. C. M. Wheatley. 



Anodonta Moricandii. — Testa laevi, oblique quadrata, subinflata, ad latere 

 planulata, valde inaequilaterali, postice obtuse angulata et biante ; antice 

 oblique rotundata et valde hiante ; valvulis tenuibus, diaphinis ; natibus sub-" 

 prominentibus ; epidermide luteo-oliva, polita, obsolete radiata, margarita 

 caeruleo-alba et valde iridescente. 



Hab. — Bahia, Brazil. S. Moricand, Geneva. 



Descriptions of Fifteen new Species of TTrngnayan TJNIONIDa;. 



BY ISAAC LEA. 



During the winter of 1858-59, R. B.Forbes, Esq., of Boston, -wliose name has 

 been identified with so many works of philanthropy and public utility, organ- 

 ized an excursion to the La Plata, the Uruguay and Rio Negro rivers, in South 

 America ; his object in part being to afford facilities for studying the natural his- 

 tory of the countries bordering on these waters. Professor J. Wyman, who ac- 

 companied him, has most kindly placed at my disposal all the specimens of the 

 Unionidce which he had been enabled to collect in these extensive southern fresh 

 waters. In this very interesting collection I was surprised to find so many 

 species which had not been before observed. These are now herein described, 

 and consist of eleven Uniones and four Anodonta. The whole number brought 

 of these fresh water Mulluscs, was twenty-three species. Those heretofore de- 

 scribed are Prisodon truncatus, Schum., {Castalia ambiffua, Lam.,) Unio Para- 

 nensis, Lea., U. parallelopipedon, h^a,., Anodonta rotunda, Spix, ^4. trapezalis, Lam., 

 A. lato-marginata , Lea, A. tenebricosa, Lea, A. Blainvilliana, Lea. In addition 

 there were three small species of Cyrena, two of which I have not ascertained, 

 the third is the variegata of D'Orbigny. There was also a small species of 

 Cycla^. 



Unio Wymanii. — Testa laevi, antice subsulcata, quadrata, compressa, ad latere 

 planulata, inaequilaterali, postice obtuse angulata, antice rotundata; valvulis 

 subcrassis, antice crassioribus ; natibus prominulis, ad apices divaricate undu- 

 latis ; epidermide tenebroso-oliva, vel eradiata vel obsolete radiata; dentibus 

 cardinalibus compressis, erectis, crenulatis, in utroque valvule duplicibus ; later- 

 alibus longis, crenulatis subcurvisque ; margarita argentea et valde iridescente. 



Hab. — Uruguay River, S. America. Prof. J. Wyman. 



Unio Uruguayensis. — Testa Isvi, antice subsulcata, ellipticu, inflata, subequi- 

 laterali, postice obtuse angulata, antice rotundata ; valvulis subcrassis, antice 

 crassioribus; natibus subprominentibus, ad apices divaricate undulatis; epid- 

 ermide virido-fusca, postice tenebricosu, polita, obsolete radiata; dentibus car- 

 dinalibus compressis, crenulatis suberectisque ; lateralibus longis subrectisque ; 

 margarita argentea et iridescente. 



Hab. — Uruguay River, S. America. Prof. J. Wyman. 



Unio piger. — Testa laevi, elliptica, inflata, subequilaterali, postice obtuse ar- 

 gulata, antice oblique rotundata; valvulis crassiusculis, antice paulisper cras- 

 sioribus ; natibus subprominentibus, inflatis, ad apices divaricate undulatis ; 

 epidermide nigro-fusca, striata, obsolete radiata ; dentibus cardinalibus com- 

 pressis, crenulatis ; lateralibus sublongis curvisque ; margarita argentea et 

 iridescente. 



Hab. — Uruguay River, S. America. Prof. J. Wyman. 



Unio PEB.a:F0RMi8. — Testa laevi, subrotunda, inflata, valde inaequilaterali, 

 postice obtuse subangulata, antice oblique rotundata; valvulis subcrassis, an- 

 tice paulisper crassioribus ; natibus vis prominentibus, inflatis ; epidermide 



[March, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 91 



striata, nigro-virente, eradiata ; dentibus cardinalibus parviusculis, compressis 

 creaulatisque ; lateralibus sublougis subrectisque ; margarita argentea et iri- 

 descente. 



Hab. — Uruguay River, S. America. Prof. J. Wyman. 



Usio NocTURNis. — Testa laevi, subrotunda, subcompressa, insequilaterali, an- 

 tice et postice rotundata ; valvulis crassis, antice crassioribus : natibus promi- 

 nulis, subinflatis; epidermide Bigricante, antice rugoso-striata, eradiata; den- 

 tibus cardinalibus parviusculis, erectis ; subcompressis, in utroque valvulo 

 duplicibus; lateralibus sublongis valde curvisque; margarita vel alba vel 

 salmonis colore tincta. 



Hab. — Uruguay River, S. America. Prof. J. Wyman. 



Unio funebralis. — Testa laevi, subrotundata, compressissima, inaequilaterali, 

 antice et postice rotundata ; valvulis crassis, antice crassioribus ; natibus 

 prominulis, compressis ; epidermide nigricante, striata, ad apices micante, 

 eradiata; dentibus cardinalibus parviusculis, subcompressis, tripartitis ; later- 

 alibus sublongis valde curvisque ; margarita vel alba vel salmonis colore tincta. 



Hab. — Uruguay River, S. America. Prof. J. Wyman. 



Unio gratus. — Testa laevi, subrotunda, subinflata, inaequilaterali, antice et 

 postice rotundata; valvulis subcrassis, antice paulisper crassioribus; natibus 

 subprominentibus, ad apices divaricate undulatis ; epidermide tenebroso-fusca, 

 micante, obsolete radiata ; dentibus cardinalibus parviusculis, compressis 

 striatisque ; lateralibus sublongis subcurvisque : margarita alba et iridescente. 



Hab. — Uruguay River, S. America. Prof. J. Wyman. 



Unio disculus. — Testa laevi, subrotunda, valde compressa, valde inaquilat- 

 erali, antice et postice rotundata ; valvulis crassiusculis, antice paulisper cras- 

 sioribus ; natibus subprominentibus, ad apices paulisper divaricate undulatis; 

 epidermide tenebroso-castanea, minute striata obsolete radiataque ; dentibus 

 cardinalibus parviusculis, lamellatis crenulatisque; lateralibus sublongis, stri- 

 atis curvisque ; margarita alba et iridescente. 



Hab. — Uruguay River, S. America. Prof. J. Wyman. 



Unio piceus. — Testa Iffivi, elliptica, subinflata, valde inaequilaterali, postice 

 subrotundata, antice oblique rotundata ; valvulis crassiusculis, antice paulisper 

 crassioribus ; natibus prominulis ; epidermide micante, nigra, striata obsolete 

 radiata vel eradiata ; dentibus cardinalibus parviusculis, compressis, obliquis, 

 in valvulo sinistro singulis ; lateralibus sublongis subcurvisque ; margarita 

 caerulea alba et iridescente. 



Hab. — Uruguay River, S. America. Prof. J. Wyman. 



Unio lepidus. — Testa laevi, elliptica, subinflata, valde inaequilaterali, postice 

 subrotundata, antice rotunda; valvulis subtenuibus, antice paulisper crassiori- 

 bus: natibus prominulis, ad apices rugose et divaricate undulatis; epidermide 

 polita, fusco-virente, striata, radiata; dentibus cardinalibus parviusculis, com- 

 pressis, obliquis; lateralibus sublongis subcurvisque; margarita caeruleo-alba 

 et valde iridescente. 



Hab. — Uruguay River, S. America. Prof. J. Wyman. 



Unio JEthiops. — Testa Isvi, oblonga, subinflata, ad latere planulatii, valde 

 inaequilaterali, postice biangulata, antice rotundata; valvulis crassiusculis, 

 antice crassioribus ; natibus prominulis, planulatis, ad apices divaricate undu- 

 latis ; epidermide micante, nigra, striata, eradiata; dentibus cardinalibus par- 

 viusculis, compressis, obliquis, suberectis crenulatisque ; lateralibus prselongis, 

 crenulatis rectisque ; margarita alba et iridescente. 



Hab. — Uruguay River, S. America. Prof. J. Wyman. 



Anodonta Wymanii. — Testa laevi, elliptica, subinflata, inaequilaterali, postice 

 subbiangulata, antice regulariter rotundata; valvulis crassis, antice paulisper 



I860.] 




92 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



crassioribus ; natibu3 promiaulis, ad apices aequis ; epidermide cmaomomea, vel 

 eradiata vel obsolete radiata ; margarita rosea et valde iridesceate. 

 Hab. — Uruguay River, S. America. Prof. J. Wjman. 



Anodovta Rnsicor^DA — Testa alata, l«vi, subrotu nda, inflata, subequilaterali, 

 antice et postice rotundata; valvulis subteauibus ; natibus elevatis, tumidis. 

 rosaceis ; epidermide tenebroso-rufo-fusca, vel obsolete radiata vel eradiata, 

 margarita rufo-salmoais colore tiacta et valde iridesceate. 



Hab. — Uruguay River, S. America. Prof. J. Wymaa. 



Anodonta FoRBESiANA. — Testa laevi, suboblouga,, veatricosa, inaequilaterali, 

 valvulis crassiusculis ; natibus elevatis, inflatis ; epidermide luteo-fusca, 

 micante, vel eradiata vel obsolete radiata ; margarita albida et valde iridescente. 



Hab. — Uruguay River, S. America. Prof. J. Wymaa. 



Anodonta Uruguayknsis. — Testa laevi, obovata, veatricosa, valde inaequilat- 

 erali; valvulis subcrassis, aatice paulisper crassioribus; natibus subelevatis. 

 tumidis ; epidermide teaebroso-oliva, eradiata; margarita caeruleo-alba et valde 

 iridescente. 



Hab. — Uruguay River, S. America. Prof. J. Wymaa. 



Descriptions of Five New Species of TJNIONES from North Alabama. 



BY ISAAC LEA. 



Unio poaictJS. — Testa laevi, subtrigona, compressa, inaequilaterali, postice 

 obtuse angulata, aatice rotunda ; valvulis subcrassis, antice crassioribus ; na- 

 tibus promiaulis, ad apices rugoso-uadulatis ; epidermide luteo-fusca, micante, 

 virido-radiata ; dentibus cardinalibus crassiusculis, erectis, compressis crenu- 

 latisque ; lateralibus subcurtis, crassis subcurvisque ; margarita alba et irides- 

 cente. 



Hab. — North Alabama, Prof. Tuomey ; and Florence, Alabama, L. B. Thorn- 

 ton, Esq. 



Unio camelopardilis. — Testa laevi, oblonga, subinflatd, inaequilaterali, postice 

 obtuse biangulata, aatice regulariter rotundata ; valvulis subtenuibus, antice 

 crassioribus ; natibus prominulis, ad apices rugoso-undulatis ; epidermide 

 lutea, polita, undique virido-maculata; dentibus cardinalibus parvis, erectis, 

 compresso-pyramidatis crenulatisque ; lateralibus longis, lamellatis subrectis- 

 que ; margarita luteo-alba et valde iridescente. 



Hab. — North Alabama, Prof. Tuomey. 



Unio fucatus. — Testa Isevi, elliptica, subinflata, valde inaequilaterali, postice 

 subbiangulata, antice rotundata : valvulis teuuibus, aatice paulisper crassiori- 

 bus ; natibus promiaulis, ad apices uudulatis; epidermide olivo-lutea, micante, 

 undique virido-maculata ; dentibus cardinalibus parvis, compresso-conicis, cre- 

 nulatis, in utroque valvulo duplicibus ; lateralibus loagis, lamellatis subcur- 

 visque; margarita vel cserulea vel luteo-albd ec valde iridesceate. 



Hab. — North Alabama, Prof. Tuomey. Tuscumbia, L. B. Thornton, Esq. 



Unio discrkpans. — Testa, laevi, elliptica, subinflata, ad latere subplanulata, 

 valde inaequilaterali, postice obtuse biangulata, aatice rotundata ; valvulis 

 subteauibus, aatice crassioribus ; natibus prominulis ; epidermide luteo-oliva, 

 micante, radiata ; dentibus cardinalibus parvis, compresso-conicis crenulatis- 

 que ; lateralibus longis, lamellatis subcurvisque ; margarita vel alba vel pur- 

 purea et valde iridescente. 



Uab. — North Alabama, Prof. Tuomey. 



Unio planicostatus. — Testa laevi, elliptica, compressa, ad latere subplanulata, 

 valde inaequilaterali, postice obtuse biangulata; aatice rotuudata; valvulis 

 tenuibus, diaphanis, antice paulisper crassioribus; natibus prominulis, ad apices 



[March, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 93 



undulatis ; epidermide olivacea, undique radiatd ; dentibus cardinalibus par- 

 vis, conicis, creaulatis, in utroque valvulo duplicibus; lateralibus longis lamel- 

 latis subcurvisqae ; margarita vel cseruleo-alba vel purpurascente et valde 

 iridescente. 

 Hab. — Tuscumbia, Alabama, L. B. Thornton, Esq. 



Ujjio scitolus. — Testa, laevi, elliptica, inflata, valde insequilaterali, postice 

 obtuse biangulata, antice rotundata; valvulis subtenuibus, anticecrassioribus ; 

 natibus prominentibus, ad apices undulatis ; epidermide lutea, undique virido- 

 radiata ; dentibus cardinalibus parviusculis, erectis, acuminatis, crenulatis, in 

 utroque valvulo duplicibus ; lateralibus longis, lamellatis subrectisque ; mar- 

 garita alba et valde iridescente. 



Hab. — Tuscumbia, Alabama, L. B. Thornton, Esq. 



Descriptions of Four New Species of MELANI0.2: of the TJnited States. 

 BY ISAAC LEA. 



ScHizocHiLUS Showalteeii. — Tcsta transverse costata, subcylindracea, 

 crassa, castanea, minute striata ; spira elevata ; suturis impressis ; anfractibns 

 subplanulatis ; fissura submagna, jirofuEda ; aperturu, subparva, elliptica, intus 

 vittata ; columella subcrassa ; labro paulisper crenulato. 



Hab. — Coosa river, Uniontown, Alabama. E. R. Showalter, M. D. 



Ancdlosa Showalterii. — Testa valde costata, suborbiculari, crasssl, tenebroso- 

 fusca, nigricante, exilissime striata ; spira brevissima ; suturis valde impressis; 

 anfractibus inflatis, septenis transversis costis indutis ; apertura magna, sub- 

 rotunda, superne subangulata, interne tenebroso-vittata ; columella crassa, 

 planulata, tenebroso-fusca ; labro valde extenso et valde crenulato. 



Hab. — Coosa river, Uniontown, Alabama. E. R. Showalter, M. D. 



Melania crenatella. — Testa transverse striata, turrito-subulata, subcostata, 

 paulisper plicala, subtenui, tenebroso-fusca, nigricante : spiia elevaia, ad apices 

 crebre plicate ; suturis valde impressis ; anfractibus septenis, planulatis, trans- 

 versis costis indutis; apertura parva, elliptica, intus vittata; columella 

 albida, incurvata ; labro subcontract© et valde crenulato. 



Hab. — Coosa river, Uniontown, Alabama. E. R. Showalter, M. D. 



Melania Newberryi. — Testa Ifevi, ovato-conica, subtenui, tenebroso-fusca, 

 trivittata, inferne suturis lutea ; spira subelevata ; suturis valde impressis ; 

 anfractibus senis, inflatis; apertura parviuscula, ovato-rotundata, intus albida 

 et vittata; columella albida, incurvata ; labro inflato. 

 "Tlab. — Upper des Chutes river, Oregon Territory. J. S. Newberry, M. D. 



Descriptions of New Species of Cretaceous Fossils from New Jersey. 



BY \VM. M. GABB. 



ActjEonina D'Orb. 



A. b i p 1 i c a t a , pi. 2, fig. 13. 



Actceon biplicata, M. & H. 



This fossil I had considered new, but have, since the plate was drawn, seen 

 the type of Meek and Hayden's species, to which it bears such a close resem- 

 blance, that I shall refer it to their species. The fact of its having been re- 

 • ferredto another genus, and the figure not having been published, misled me. 

 The existence of two folds on the columella, Avhich can be seen in the New 

 Jersey fossil, has not been yet ascertained in the one from Nebraska. 



I860.] 




94 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



Solarium Lam. 



S. a b y s s i n u s , pi. 2, fig. 9. Shell conical ; -whorls three, rounded ; mouth 

 circular, surface markings unlinown. A cast. 

 Locality. — With the above from Burlington Co., N. Jersey. 



VoLUTiLiTHES Swains. 



V. Abbotti, pi. 2, fig. 7. Shell fusiform, whorls three or four, spire 

 moderately elevated ; mouth, three-fourths the length of the shell ; four folds 

 on the columella ; surface apparently smooth. A cast. 



Locality .—B\iv\mgio'a Co., N. J. 



I take pleasure in dedicating this species to Mr. C. C. Abbott of Trenton, 

 N. J., to whom I am indebted for the type of the species, as well as for many 

 other species of cretaceous fossils. 



TuRBiNELLA Lam. 



T. subconica, pi. 2, fig. 6. Shell subconical, spire low ; body whorl 

 subangular above, two folds on the columella, surface marked by longitudinal 

 ribs, about ten on the body whorl, crossed by numerous smaller revolving 

 lines. A cast. 



Locality. — Monmouth Co., N. J. 



T. p a r V a , pi. 2, fig. 3. Shell small, subconical, spire very low, whorls two or 

 three, mouth wide, and at the upper part angular, three folds on the columella ; 

 surface marked by about twelve large longitudinal ridges or undulations, on 

 the body whorl crossed by three or four revolving lines. A cast. 



Locality. — With the preceding. 



Cancellaeia Lam. 



C. sept em li rata , pl.2, fig. 10. Shell subglobose, spire low, whorls two, 

 mouth wide, surface, from markings on the cast, apparently ornamented by 

 about seven prominent revolving lines. A cast. 



Locality and position. — From the highest bed at Mullica Hill, N. J. 



PoRPUROiDEA Lycet. 



P? du b i a , pi. 2, fig. 11. Shell ovate, whorls four or five, spire elevated, sur- 

 face marked by longitudinal ribs, about fifteen on the body whorl; a few revolv 

 ing striae appear to exist near the lower part of the body whorl, but this specimen 

 is so weathered, that this character may be only the result of disintegration of 

 the shell. The lower part of the mouth is broken. 



Locality and position. — Mullica Hill, with the preceding. 



Fusus Lam. 



F. trivolvus, pl.2, fig. 5. Shell fusiform, elongate, whorls three, spire mo- 

 derately elevated, mouth long and angular, surface markings unknown ; on the 

 cast there are three prominent revolving lines, dividing the whorls into a 

 corresponding number of flat surfaces, beak elongate ; length of shell 2 in., 

 beak 1^ in., width of last whorl 1 in. 



Locality and position. — Yellow Limestone, Timber Creek, N. J. ; collection of 

 the Academy. The types of all the other species in this paper are in ray own 

 collection. 



Rapa Klein. 



R. py r u 1 o i d e a, pi. 2, fig. 4. Shell pyriform, whorls three, spire low, ^ 

 surface marked by longitudinal ribs or undulations, about twelve on the body 

 whorl, crossed towards the beak by fine revolving striae. 



Locality and position. — Green marl, Burlington Co., N. J. 



[March, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 95 



Pleurotoma Lam. 



P. M ull i c a ensi;5, pi. 2, fig. 8. Shell fusiform, robust; spire elevated, 

 ■whorls four or five, surface marked by numerous longitudinal ribs (crossed by 

 revolving lines ?) 



Localiiy and position. — Upper bed, Mullica Hill, N. J. 



Arca Linn. 



A. quindecemradiata, pi. 2, fig. 2. Shell gibbous, inequilateral, beaks 

 incurved, umbones small; umbonal ridge subangular, and extends to the mar- 

 gin of the shell, surface marked by about fifteen radiating ribs, crossed by very 

 distinct lines of growth; no appearance of ribs on the cast, posterior to the 

 umbonal ridge. 



Localiti/. — Common in the more northerly portions of the cretaceous deposits 

 of New jersey. 



CiBOTA Brown. {Byssoarca Swains.) 



C. m u 1 1 i ra d i a t a, pi. 2, fig. 1. Shell small, gibbous, beaks incurved, um- 

 bones small, rounded; anterior ends rounded gently, basal margin slightly 

 sinuous, posterior rounded below, and inclined anteriorly above ; surface 

 marked by numerous fine radiating ribs ; margin crenulated. 



Locality and position. — Green marl, Mullica Hill, N. J. 



Leda Schum. 



L. a n g u 1 a t a , pi. 2, fig. 12: Shell twice as wide as long, beaks small, curved 

 anteriorly, umbonal ridge angular and extending to the posterior basal margin ; 

 anterior margin rounded, basal very slightly sinuous, posterior, inclined an- 

 teriorly to ^he hinge line. 



Locality and position. — Green marl, Burlington Co., N. J. 



The following communication from Mr, A. E. Jessup, Mr. E. A. 

 Jessup and Mrs. Clara J. Moore, children of the late Augustus E. Jes- 

 sup, was read. 



Philadelphia, March 6th, I816O. 



Isaac Lea, Esq., President of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. 



Dear Sir, — The undersigned, children of the late Augustus E. Jessup, be- 

 lieving that it was his intention to leave a sum of money to the " Academy 

 of Natural Sciences," for the purposes stated below, and desiring to carry out 

 what we have cause to think were his intentions, propose to pay to the Acad- 

 emy the sum of one hundred and twenty dollars per annum, to be applied to 

 its Publication Fund, and the further sum of four hundred and eighty dollars 

 per annum, to be used for the support of one or more deserving poor young 

 man or men, who may desire to devote the whole of his or their time and 

 energies to the study of any of the Natural Sciences. 



The above sums we propose to pay as long as we feel our circumstances to 

 be such as will warrant our doing so, and we look forward to investing in 

 trust, at some not distant time, the principal of the sums named, for the pur- 

 pose of creating a perpetual fund for the above named uses. 



Signed, A. E. Jessup. 



E. A. Jessup. 

 Clara J. Moore. 



On motion of Mr. Foulkc, the letter was referred to a special com- 

 mittee of five. 

 18G0.]" 




96 PROCEEDINQS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



April Sd. 

 Vice President Bridges in the Chair, 



Fifty members present. 



A paper was presented for publication, entitled, " Conspectus Piscium 

 in expeditione ad Oceanum Pacificum Septentrionalem, C. Ringgold et 

 J. Rodgers ducibus, a Gruilelmo Stimpson, M. D., collectore ; Sicydianae: 

 auctore Theo. Gill.'' 



Mr. Lesley read the following extract from a letter received from 

 Mr. T. S. Hunt, Chemist of the Canada Geological Survey, dated 

 Montreal, March 25th, 1860 :— 



"If we mingle in equivalent proportions the chlorides of calcium and 

 magnesium in concentrated solution, and then having precipitated the bases 

 by a slight excess of carbonate of soda in the cold, and expose the mixture for a 

 few hours in a closed flask to a temperature of 200° — 212'' F., the pasty mass 

 is entirely transformed into a beautiful granular powder, made up of spherical, 

 translucent, crystalline grains, which are sparingly soluble in cold, dilute, acetic 

 acid and are a double carbonate of lime and magnesia. In my previous and 

 published trials, at temperatures of 300° — 400'=' F., the product was much less 

 beautiful, and was mingled with carbonate ot magnesia. It now remains to 

 be seen whether the combination may not be slowly effected at a temperature 

 much below 200* F., and experiments upon this point are in progress." 



Mr. Lesley drew the attention of the Academy to the significant direction 

 in which these and similar experiments are carrying the chemical geology of 

 the day. If they result in nothing more than the destruction of those igneous 

 prejudices which still shackle observers, especially in metamorphic mineral re- 

 gions, and set us free to study ab initio the phenomena of magnetic iron veins, 

 copper lodes and gold quartz, primary limestones, serpentines and dolomites, 

 the consequences must be practically important. 



Mr. Foulke remarked the equally important bearing the low temperature 

 of these experiments must be seen to have, on the theory of non-fossiliferous, 

 primary rocks. If metamorphism has been possible at such low temperatures, 

 the argument in favor of the destruction of organic remains from metamorphic 

 strata by fiery agencies is of force no longer, and we must conclude that these 

 early and apparently non-fossiliferous rocks were really destitute of life. 



Dr. Leidy stated that he had just received a short notice from Prof. 

 Leuckart, of Giessen, in which he mentions the results of some experiments 

 with Trichina spiralis. Having fed dogs with human flesh containing 

 Trichinse, he found that in a week or less, the worms completed their devel- 

 opment, but without assuming the form of a Tricocephalus or Strongylus. 

 Within the intestine of the dog, the generative apparatus, together with the 

 eggs and embryos, were fully developed in the Trichina. The embryos 

 rapidly pass away with the excrement of the dog. A pig having been fed with 

 a dog's intestine containing fully developed Trichina, was killed and dissected 

 on the 3d of March, and exhibited in the muscles millions of Trichinae. From 

 these facts it is rendered probable that embryos of Trichina voided by dogs 

 find their way into the human stomach through the food or drink, and sub- 

 sequently burrow into the tissues of the body. 



NOTT. — The date of the meeting of the Academy on page 51, should be Feb. 14th, instead of 

 Feb. 11th. 



[March, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 97 



Ajyril 10 th. 



Mr. Lea, President, in the Cliair. 



Thirty-eight members present. 



Mr. Lea remarked that he had recently received from Prof. J. Wyman 

 specimens in alcohol of two species of Anodonta from the Urugiiav River, 

 South America, descriptions of the soft parts of which he had made, and in- 

 tended, at a future time, to publish in the Journal at length ; but he wished 

 at present to mention that he had found a form of Palpi (mouth lips) different 

 from anv of the Wnionidce which had come under his notice from any other 

 part of the world. The form of the Palpi heretofore described have always 

 been obliquely or transversely elliptical or subtriangular, while these two spe- 

 cies, An. Wymanii, Lea, and 4?i. lato-marginata, Lea, are round, and the pair on 

 either side only joined above, the edges being entirely free. It is greatly to 

 be I'egretted that more or all the South American Unionidce could not have 

 been examined, as regards their soft parts, to ascertain if this difference of 

 form of the Palpi should be persistently different in all the South American 

 Unionidce, or only with this member of the family — the Anodontae. 



April YltJ). 

 Mr. Lea, President, in the Chair. 



Fiftj-six members present. 



The following papers were presented for publication : 



'' Monograph of the Genus, Labrisomus, of Swainson, by Theo. Gill." 



" Monograph of the Genus Labras, of Cuvier, by Theo. Gill." 



"Monograph of the Philypni, by Theo. Gill." 



*' Notice of Geological Discoveries, made by Capt. J. H. Simpson, 

 Top. Engineers, U. S. Army, in his recent explorations across the Con- 

 tinent." 



" Catalogue of Birds collected during a survey of a route for a ship 

 canal across the Isthmus of Darien. by order of the Government of the 

 United States, made by Lieut. N. Michler, U. S. Top. Engineers, 

 with notes and descriptions of new species, by John Cassin." 



And were referred to Committees. 



Mr. Lesley described a boulder of gneiss, eight feet high, on the summit of 

 one of the Orange Co. highlands, in the State of New York, which was sup- 

 ported by four smaller rocks, so that it was lifted about a foot above the floor 

 of nearly horizontal gneiss, forming the top of the mountain. One of these 

 supports was a hard blue limestone, from the crust of which Mr. Lesley ob- 

 tained numerous fossils, among which was probably the Orthis costalis, (Hall,) 

 of the Chazy Limestone. Another block of limestone, also fossiliferous, lay 

 not far away, and a few small pieces of a reddish sandstone like that of certain 

 bands in the Oneida Conglomerate ; but with these exceptions, there was neither 

 drift nor diluvial strise visible, but here and there large blocks of gneiss. 

 The whole surface of the exposures, which were numerous and many hundred 

 feet square, has been weathered down 2 or 3 inches, as is evident from the 

 ridges of refractory quartz veins, which have successfully resisted the atmo- 

 sphere. On this weathered surface occur what have been called the footmarks 

 of animals ; but these are nothing else than weathered-out nodules of rock 

 more ferruginous than the rest. The locality is two miles east of Southfield 

 Station, on the New York and Erie Railroad. Mr. Lesley and his brother were 

 accompanied and guided to the locality by Mr. T. B. Brooks and Mr. Jenkins, 

 two excellent local geologists and mineralogists, living in the village of Munroe. 



I860.] 6 




98 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Dr. Leidy stated that on last Saturday, in company with Dr. Darracli, he had 

 visited, to them, a new and rich botanical locality, which was worthy of the atten- 

 tion of those members interested in our local flora. This was at Jackson, N. J. 

 about 20 miles from Philadelphia, on the Camden and Atlantic Railway. A 

 cedar swamp, crossed by the latter, not one hundred yards from the station, 

 contains the greatest profusion of Saracenia purpurea, and Helonias bullata, 

 which is now in flower. Near by, they also found abundantly the Pyxidan- 

 thera and Cassandra both in flower. Osycoccus, Drosera, etc., were also 

 noticed. The neighboring extensive forest tract is thickly carpeted with Gaul- 

 theria procumbens. 



Prof. W. B. Rogers communicated the resnlt of observations which he had 

 made within the last year on the structural and geological relations of the Al- 

 bertite or so-called Albert Coal of New Brunswick. 



An examination of the mine afforded, as he thought, convincing proof that 

 this remarkable accumulation of asphaltic mateiial could not have formed a 

 part of the regular carbonaceous deposits of the region, — that it is not and 

 never has been a true bed or stratum, but that it should rather be regarded as a 

 mass collected within an irregular fissure of subsequent formation, by the dis- 

 tillation or infiltration of asphaltic matter from the surrounding bituminous 

 shales. 



The principal features of the deposit pointing to such an origin are — the very 

 limited extent of the mass longitudinally traced, — its sudden and great irregular- 

 ities of thickness and trend, and the yet more striking fact of its transverse direc- 

 tion in many parts of its course as compared with the bedding of the adjacent 

 rocks. In the lower level at a depth of about four hundred and sixty feet where 

 the combustible material has been removed almost entirely from end to end, the 

 slaty rocks are seen in many places abutting against the sides of the mine at 

 a steep angle, presenting frequently a jagged surface, such as would result from 

 a transverse fracture and gaping of the strata. The Albertite was seen adhering 

 to these irregular surfaces, as well in the cavities as on the projections, affording 

 even in hand specimens excellent examples of the discordance of the mass as to 

 position with the stratification of the contiguous rocks. 



It is worthy of note that the material thus adhering to the walls of the mine 

 has none of that intermixture with earthy sediment which so often marks the 

 contact of regular coal seams with the enclosing strata, but maintains the same 

 remarkable(purity as in the midst of the mass. It is, moreover, quite free from 

 the carbonaceous and rocky debris, and other marks of mechanical violence, 

 which it must have presented had it originated in the dislocation and displace- 

 ment of a coal seam originally conformable with the stratification of the neigh- 

 borhood. 



These evidences of the nature and origin of the deposit are confirmed bjthe 

 statement that in the progress of the mining, several large fragments of the verti- 

 cal wall-rock have been found detached and imbedded in the midst of the Alber- 

 tite, and on one occasion a mass of 'unusually great dimensions could be traced 

 by correspondence of form to a cavity in the wall at some distance above, from 

 which it would seem to have fallen, while the contents of the fissure were still 

 but imperfectly solidified. 



The conclusions of Prof. Rogers, as to the origin and nature of this remark- 

 able deposit are thus completely in harmony with those which Prof. Leidy has 

 maintained on the ground of a microscopic examination of the material. 



Prof.W. B. Rogers gave an account of some experiments in binocular vision, 

 which he had devised for the purpose of testing the theory of the successive 

 combination of corresponding points as maintained by Sir David Brewster. 



In one class of these experiments two slightly inclined luminous lines wer« 

 combined into a perspective resultant, either with or without a stereoscope. On 

 looking at this intently for a few seconds, so as to induce the reverse ocular 



[April, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 99 



spectrum, and tlieu directing the eyes towards a distant wall, a single spec- 

 trum was observed, liaving the attitude and relief of the original binocular 

 resultant. When the luminous lines were regarded in succession, each by the 

 corresponding eye, the other eye being shaded, so that no direct binocular 

 combination could be formed, it was found on looking towards the wall that 

 the subjective images united into a single spectral line, having the same relief 

 as if the lines had been directly combined in the stereoscope. 



In these experiments, according to the theory of Brewster, the resultant 

 spectrum, instead of being a single line in a perspective attitude ought to pre- 

 sent the form of two lines inclined or crossing, situated in the plane of the 

 wall without projection or relief. The conditions of the experiments are such 

 as exclude all opportunity of a shifting of the image on the retina, and this is 

 essential to the successive combinations of pairs of points required by the theory 

 in the production of perspective effect. 



A similar result was still more clearly shown by vibrating a screen between 

 the eyes and the twin pictures of a stereoscope, so as alternately to expose 

 and cover each, completely excluding the simultaneous vision of the two. 

 The stereoscopic i-elief was as apparent in these conditions as when the vibra- 

 ting screen was withdrawn. 



The perception of the resultant in its proper relief does not therefore require 

 that each pair of coi-responding points should be combined by directing the 

 optic axes to them pair by pair in succession, as maintained by Brewster. 

 Nor is it necessary for the singleness of the resultant perception that the 

 images of corresponding points of the objects should fall on what are called 

 corresponding points of the retinae. The condition of single vision in such 

 cases seems to be simply this, that the pictures in the two eyes shall be such 

 and so placed as to be identical with the pictures which the real object would 

 form, if placed at a given distance and in a given attitude before the eyes. 



Dr. Ruschenberger asked how it is, under the explanation given by Prof. 

 Rogers, that a man with only one eye is capable of perceiving solidity, and of 

 appreciating the properties of photographs viewed stereoscopically. 



Mr. Powel asked at what rate per second the vibrating or revolving screen 

 presented its openings ; for if it happened eight or ten times in a second, 

 might it not fail to practically intercept vision ? Objects thus seen would ap- 

 pear permanently. Thus, although not appearing to each eye at the identical 

 instant of time, the object would be persistent in both, for an impression upon 

 the eye cannot be discharged oftener than about eight times in a second, some 

 impressions remain much longer. An object illuminated by a flash of light- 

 ning for a very instant, may thus appear solid to both eyes, the intense re- 

 flection impressed upon the retina endures long enough for the sensorimn to 

 scan it in detail. A man takes quick aim with a rifle, it may be almost in- 

 stantaneously, yet by distinct operations and different foci of vision he must 

 see the distant mark — the tip sight, and again the heel sight, no two of which 

 can be in focus at once. We have here successive points in a line, rapidly 

 scanned in determining position. The breadth of field of distinct vision is 

 exceedingly narrow for the same instant of time, and so is the penetration of 

 focus very short. A separate direction and a new adjustment of the eye must 

 be given for parts of even a very small object. 



. Mr. P. remarked, while upon the subject, that he believed the stereoscopic 

 effect often noticed in viewing large photographic pictures with only one eye, 

 was caused by the aperture of the lens used in taking the picture ; for the 

 aperture is often so great that objects have an appreciable parallax from the 

 opposite margins of the aperture, and the picture thus contains more than 

 could be seen from one point. When both eyes, however, view such a picture 

 they decide that it is flat and in one plane, and their evidence deniee the 

 stereoscopic effect which one eye cannot so well dispute. 



I860.] 




100 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Ajml 24.th. 

 Mr. Lea, President, in tbe Chair. 



Fortj-four members present. 



The Committee to whom was referred tlie communication addressed 

 to Isaac Lea, Esq., President of the Academy of Natural Sciences, by 

 A. D. Jessup, E. A. Jessup and Clara J. Moore, under date of March 

 6th, 1860, 



Reported, That the unsolicited efforts of the children of the late 

 Augustus E. Jessup to ascertain any expressed intentions on his part 

 to pecuniarily benefit the cause of science through this Academy, and 

 the filial regard and liberal feeling evinced by them in fulfilling his 

 supposed views, satisfy your Committee that the respect and esteem 

 entertained by the Academy for the father, is also merited by the 

 children of our lamented fellow member, Augustus E. Jessup, Esq. 



Your Committee recommend that the President and Curators of 

 this Academy shall, ex-officio, be a perpetual Committee under the di- 

 rection of the Academy to carry out the intentions of the late Augus- 

 tus E. Jessup, Esq., as expressed in the above mentioned letter of his 

 children, A. D. Jessup, E. A. Jessup and Clara D. Moore, and that 

 said Committee shall make a quarterly report of their proceedings, your 

 Committee also recommend that a copy of the Publications of this 

 Academy shall be furnished to each of the above named children of the 

 late Augustus E. Jessup during life, commencing with the volumes 

 now in progress. "Wm. S. Vaux, Chairman of Committee. 



The report was unanimously adopted. 



The Committee of the Biological Department to whom was referred 

 the communication "On the Physical and Chemical Characteristica of 

 Corroval and Vao, two recently discovered varieties of Woorara, and on 

 a new alkaloid containing their active principle, by William A. Ham- 

 mond, M. D., Assistant Surgeon U. S. Army, and S. "Weir Mitchell, 

 M. D., Lecturer on Physiology, in the Philadelphia Medical Associa- 

 tion," reported in favor of its publication in the Proceedings. 



The following papers were, on the report of the Committees to whom 

 they had been referred, ordered to be published in the Proceedings : 



Conspectus Piscium in Expeditione ad Oceanum Pacificum Septentrionalem, C. Ein- 

 gold et J. Eodgers ducibns, a Golielmo Stimpson collectoram. SICYDI- 

 AN.E: 



ArCTORE THEO. GILL. 



SiCYDIANiK Gill. 



Corpus eloiigatum, antice subcylindricum, squamosum vel nudum ; aper- 

 turse branchiales paulo fissae, verticales ; caput elongatum, rostro prominens ; 

 maxilla inferior triangularis, crassa ; labium inferius plerumque dentibus gra- 

 cilibus, confertissimis prjeditum. 



Pinnse dorsales duse ; pinnse pectorales basi latae fere verticales ; pinnse ven- 

 trales in modo disci conjunctse, ad basin pectori adhserentes. 



Hsec subfamilia bene distinguitur ab subfamiliis " Gobinse " Gill et "Triden- 



[April, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 101 



tigerinse" Gill pectori pinnarum ventralium adhseratione, et forma capitis et 

 osteologia. 



Genus I. Sicydium Val. 

 Corpus plerumque squamis ctenoideis obtectum ; maxillae superioris dentes 

 gracillimi, confertissimi, uniseriati ; maxillae inferioris distantes, magni, praecl- 

 pne prope sympliisin ; dentes labiales gracillimi. 



Subgenus I. Sicydium. 

 Maxilla inferior superne ad sympbisin et prope commissuras lateribus ap- 

 pendicibus carnosis praedita. 



Typus S. (Sicydium) Plumieri Val. Hist. Nat. des Poissons, vol. xii. 



Subgenus II. Sicyoptekus Gill. 

 Maxilla inferior appendicibus carnosis carens. 

 Typus -S". (Sicyopterus) Stimpsoni Gill nov. sp. 



Genus II. Sicyogaster Gill. 

 Corpus alepidotum. Dentes in utraque maxilla uniseriati ; ei ad maxillae 

 superioris partem anteriorem crassi, tricuspidati, laterales simplices ; maxillae 

 inferioris dentes anteriores remoti, simplices. 

 Typus Sicyogaster concolor GUI, nov. sp. 



Genus Sicydium Val. 



Sicydium Val. Hist. Nat. des Poissons, vol. xii, p. 18. 



Corpus antice subcylindricum, versus pinnam caudalem regulariter atten- 

 uatum ; squamae imbricatfe, plerumque marginibus subrotundae, nee augulatae, 

 valde pectinatae, striis concentricis et radiantibus obsoletis ; squamae dorsales 

 et laterales anteriores parvae, cycloideae. 



Caput oblougum, subquadratum, latitudine altitudinem aequante vel super- 

 ante ; rostrum subverticale, obtuse rotundatum. Oculi cerciter in capitis parte 

 mediana siti. 



Os mediocre, fere horizontale, usque ad oculos extendens. Maxilla inferior 

 triangularis, superiore brevior minorque, intus superiorem claudens ; labia 

 crassa, praecipue labium superius. 



Dentes maxillae superioris gracillimi, confertissimi, in serie unica dispositi ; 

 maxillae inferioris in serie una, remoti, mediocres, ad utrumque latus symphi- 

 sis majores. 



Pinnae dorsales omnino disjunctae ; pinna caudalis rotundata vel subrotun- 

 data, sub oculis desinens : maxilla inferior superiore brevior, minorque, intus 

 superiorem claudens : labia crassa, maxUlas dentesque tegentia. 



Subgenus Sicyopterus Gill. 



1. Sicydium Stimpsoni Gill. 



Caput latitudine antrorsum retrorsumque subaequale, vix quam altitudo 

 majore ; rostro subverticali, obtuse rotundato ; capitis longitudine corporis 

 longitudinis extremi partem quiutam aequante, latitudine capitis longitudinis 

 2-3 aequante, altitudiue fere latitudinem aequante. Labium superius utrinque 

 emarginatum fere sub nare, sub rostro fissum ; intus papillarum serie circa 

 marginem superiorem extendente et papilla unica supra sinum labri anteri- 

 orem praeditum. Pori capitis in linea transversa arcuata pone oculos, et in 

 linea brevi obliqua in operculi parte inferioriqne, suboperculo, &c. 



Pinna dorsalis prima radio secundo ejus filiforme, ultimo remotiori. 



D. vi, 11 ; A 11 ; C 8, 13, 7 ; P 18 ; V i, 5-f 5 i. 



Color subpurpureus, fasciis obscurioribus septem variegatus ; pinnae dorsa- 

 lis analisque basi albo punctulatse ; pinna caudalis albo punctulata. 



Habitat in aqure dulcis rivulis, lapidibus adherens, Hilo Hawaii. 



Forsitan Sicydio laticepiti Val. proximum. 



I860.] 




102 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



Genus Sicyogaster Gill. 



Corpus alepidotum, antice subcylindricum, inde versus caudam lente at- 

 tenuatum. 



Caput oblongum depressum, altiore latius, antice rotundatum. Oculi in 

 parte subanteriori positi. Os mediocre, horizontaliter fissum. 



Dentes in maxilla utraque serie regulare unica dispositi ; dentes circa 

 maxillae superioris partem anteriorem approximatse, apicibus lateraliter dila- 

 tatis, tricnspidatis, cuspa mediana majore, subrotundata ; dentes laterales 

 pauciores, remotiores, simplices, subcylindi-ioi et paulo recurvati. Dentes 

 maxillae inferioris partis anterioris subcylindrici recurvatique, remoti. Dentes 

 labiales tenuissimi adsunt. 



Pinnae dorsales duae, prima radiis valde flexibilibus ; pinna caudalis mar- 

 gine rotundata ; pinnae ventrales postice bene conjunctae, antice funiculo mus- 

 cular! spinas connectente et membranae marginem formante praeditae. 



Hoc genus a Sicydio Val., valde diifert corpore omnino alepidoto, dentibus 

 trilobatis crassis in maxillae superioris parte anteriore et dentibus maxillae in- 

 .ferioris subaequalibus. 



Eo referenda est unica species. 



Sicyogaster c o n c o 1 o r Gill. 



Caput longitudiuis totius partem quintam formans, altitudine sui longitu- 

 dinis dimidiam superante. Maxilla superior circiter dentibus tricuspidatis 

 sexdecim et latere utroque circiter dentibus simplicibus quatuor vel quinque 

 armata ; maxilla inferior circiter dentibus simplicibus remotis decim praedita. 



D vi, 11 ; A 10 ; C-1-15+ ; P 15 V i, 5 -f 5 i. 



Color subpiirpureus ; pinnae analis et ventrales submargaritaceae, analis pur- 

 pureo marginata. 



Habitat cum Sicydio Stimpsoni in aquae dulcis rivulis saxis adhaerens. 



In specimine unico in coUectione, labium inferior dentes graciles pancos 

 liabet. 



Monograph of the Genus LABROSOMTIS Sw. 

 BY THEO. GILL. 



In the genus Clinus as proposed by Cuvier, and even as revised by Valen- 

 ciennes, there are dissimilar types which yet remain to be named and elevated 

 to the rank of genera. Among the species of this group, described by the latter 

 naturalist in the eleventh volume of the " Histoire Naturelle des Poissons," 

 there are several species which are distinguished by the presence of superciliary 

 tentacles, and of a transverse pectiniform series of filaments on the nape. 

 Those fishes provided with such appendages, have at the same time a much 

 less inequality between the spinous and soft portions of the dorsal than the 

 typical Clini, and the teeth in the outer row are much stronger. They would 

 therefore be correctly referred to a genus which is quite distinct from Clinus. 

 For this genus, the name Lahrosomus, first proposed by Swainson, must be 

 adopted, but the characters given by that author to it are not the proper 

 generic ones, and the greater number of the species referred to it are not con- 

 generic with its type. .» 



The name of Lahrosomus (or Labrisomus) was first published in 1839, in the 

 second volume of the "Natural History of Fishes, Amphibians and Reptiles." 

 At the seventy-fifth page of that volume, Swainson has divided the Cuvieran 

 genus Clinus into five genera : Clinus, of which the Clinus acuminatus 

 Cuv., is taken as the type; Labrisomus with Clinus pectinifer Val., as 

 type ; Tripterygion Risso, Clinitrachus Reese, which is typified by Blennius 



[April, 



I 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 103 



variabilis of Rafinesque, and Blennophis,* of which tlie Cliuus a n g u i 1- 

 laris Val., is the only true species. Of these genera, Clinus Sw., and Cli- 

 nitrachusSw., are distinguished by filse or illusive cliaracters, and cannot be 

 regarded as distinct. The others are valid, but their characters require re- 

 vision. 



The only claim tb distinction of the genus Lnhrosomus given by Swainson, 

 are founded on the strong, conic and pointed row of front teeth, behind which 

 are villiform ones ; a thicker body than in Clinus, and the '"dorsal fin dis- 

 tinctly emarginate towards the caudal." The geuns resting on these charac- 

 ters alone is composed of very incongruous elements. To it are referred, at 

 page 277 of tlie second volume, the following species, all of which are de- 

 scribed as species of Clinus by Valenciennes : Labrosomus go b i o, L. p e ct i- 

 nifer, L. capillatus, L. Delalandii, L. linearis, L. varioiosus, 

 L. Peruvianus, L. microcirrhis, L. ?geniguttatus, L. elegans, 

 L. ? littoreus and L. latipi n n is. 



Of these species, not more than three can, with propriety, be regarded as 

 congeners, if the Labrosomus pectinifer is taken as the type. These are 

 Labrosomus pectinifer, L. capillatus and perhaps L. Delalandii. 

 The latter is more probably the representative of a distinct genus. 



That genus is distinguished from Labrosomus by the smaller mouth, the pre- 

 sence of only two rays to the ventral fins, and perhaps by the undulating 

 margin of the spinous portion of the dorsal fin. It may be named Malacocte- 

 nus, in illusion to tlie pectiniform row of filaments. This genus is the nearest 

 ally of Labrosomus. AH the others are very distinct. 



Labrisomus gobio Sir., is the type of quite a distinct genus, whose charac- 

 ters consist of a broad, dejiressed head, with a very short muzzle, large ap- 

 proximated eyes, superciliary and nasal tentacles, two ventral rays and a com- 

 paratively short spinous dorsal. The genus may be called Gobioclinus. The 

 only species Gobioclinus gobio is found in the West Indies, and has biit 

 eighteen dorsal spines. 



Labrisomus linearis Sw. , is synonymous with Clinus brachycepha- 

 lus Val. This also is the type of a distinct genus distinguished by its abbre- 

 viated and blenniform head, the profile being very convex ; by the villiform 

 teeth, the absence of superciliary tentacles, the spinous poi'tion of the dorsal 

 long, and the presence of only two rays to the ventral fins. Tlie name of 

 Blennioclinus is conferred on it ; for the species, the specific name of Valenci- 

 ennes must be retained. 



Labrisomus varioiosus is distinguished by a large thick head, with 

 lateral eyes, short superciliary tentacles and a small nuchal one. The mouth 

 is large ; the teeth of the jaws in an outer row strong and conical, behind 

 which are villiform ones ; those of the vomer and palate villiform and in three 

 patches, one on the vomer and one on each palatine bone. The spinous por- 

 tion of the dorsal is long, and the ventrals have each three rays . The species 

 thus characterized is the type of a new genus which may be named Anchenion- 

 ckus. 



Labrisomus microcirrhis, L. elegans and L. Peruvianus are 

 nearly related to Anchenionchus, and are from the same zoological province. 



Labrosomus ? geniguttatusis distinguished from Anchenioichus by the 

 more approximated eyes, and by the disposition of the vomero-palatiue teeth, 

 as well as the small size of the anterior row of maxillary teeth. The dorsal 

 is moderately long, and each of the ventrals have three rays. The mouth is 

 comparatively small, and there are superciliary, nasal and nuchal tentacles. 

 For this species, the generic name of Calliclinus is proposed. 



* Valenciennes has since given the name of Blennophis to a very distinct genus from 

 that to which Swainson appplied the names. As Swainson's genus is a natural one, 

 another name must be substituted for that of Valenciennes— Ophioblennius is therefore 

 proposed. 



1860.1 




104 PaOCEEDIXGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



Labrisomus ? littoreus may possibly belong to the genus Acanihoclimis of 

 Jenyns, but it is only known from a drawing and description. 



Labrisomus latipinnis is related to Blennioclinus, but is distinguished 

 from the species of that genus by the presence of superciliary tentacles. The 

 generic name of Ophthalmolophus may be retained for it. 



If the above views of the limits of the Labrosomus are correct, only two of 

 the species assigned by Swainson to the genus truly belong to it. Of the re- 

 maining species, nearly each one belongs to a genus distinct from the others. 

 The affinities and characters of the genera above indicated will be more fully 

 exposed at another time. 



About three years after the publication of the work of Swainson, the same 

 species that served as the type of the genus of that naturalist, was described 

 by Dr. Dekay, in the ichthyological part of his " Zoology of New York, or the 

 New York Fauna," as the representative of a new genus of Percoids, under 

 the name of Lepisoma. That the genus Lepisoma is identical with the Labri- 

 somus of Swainson, no one can entertain a doubt after a perusal of the generic 

 and specific description of Dekay. 



Dr. Dekay has given the characters of his genus Lepisoma, as follows : 



" Body and fins scaly. Fleshy filaments along the basal line of the head and 

 on the orbits. A single dorsal fin. Branchial rays six. Teeth in the jaws 

 vomer and palatines. Ventrals before the pectorals." 



Dekay in his remarks, states "that it is with much hesitation that he places 

 this genus at the end of the jugular section of this family (Percidse). In its 

 general aspect, it might readily be referred to the families Sciaenidae or Labri- 

 dae ; but the presence of vomerine and palatine teeth excludes it from them." 



The amiable naturalist was much mistaken in regard to the affinities of the 

 genus, as must be perceptible from his descriptions. Even in his brief generic 

 diagnosis, the ichthyologist is surprised by the peculiarity described by the 

 second sentence ; ^ ^ fleshy Jilaments along the base of the head and on the orbits.^^ 

 This character is so peculiar, so much at variance with the compact character, 

 if I may so express myself, of the head in the family of Percoids, that it might 

 well cause the naturalist to doubt if a fish with such appendages can really be- 

 long to the family of Percoids. On a careful examination of the specific de- 

 scription, the characters are found to disagreee more and more with the natural 

 ones of tlie family to which Dekay has referred it. 



The scales are described as being " moderate, rounded, finely striate on their 

 free surfaces, with a smooth membranous margin." The head is "corrugated 

 and destitute of scales. Along the basal line of the head, on each side, are nine 

 or ten fleshi/ processes, ending in bifid or trifid filaments," &c. "Another fleshy 

 process arises from beneath the upper margin of the orbit, which subdivides into 

 six or eight smaller processes," &c. The anterior nostril has a "fleshy valve, 

 through which is pierced the nasal aperture ; its posterior border elongated and 

 terminating in six or eight filaments.'''' The opercle and preopercle are rounded 

 and smooth on their margins." 



All of the attributes of the species underlined in the foregoing abstract are more 

 or less at variance with the characters of Percoid fishes, even as the family 

 was accepted by Dr. Dekay ; the doubt of the reader is still more increased 

 when he finds it stated that the " branchial membrane (is) large, extending loosely 

 around the throat, with six rays, and that the ventrals arise near the inferior fold 

 of the branchial membrane, and are composed of two long articulated rays and a 

 short rudimentary one on each sice.'" 



This condition of the branchial membrane, this number of ventral rays are 

 so different from the characters of the true Percoids, that one can have no 

 hesitation in denying a fish with such attributes a place in the family. As in 

 all those as well as in minor details, it agrees with Labrosomus, it is unhesita- 

 tingly referred to that genus. 



[April, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 105 



The genus Lepisoma lias been adopted by the following authors, but it is 

 necessary to add, entirely on the authority of Dr. Dekay. 



Troschel has translated into German the characters of the genus for the 

 " Archiv fiir Naturgeschichte " of 1844, page 233. He has questioned the pre- 

 sence of three ventral rays. 



Dr. Storer, in his "Synopsis of the Fishes of North America," has adopted 

 it without qualification. 



Sir John Richardson, in the article " Ichthyology " of the last edition of the 

 " Encyclopedia Britannica, " at page 277 of the twelfth volume, has taken the 

 characters of the genus from the ' ' Archiv, ' ' and on account of the presence of 

 six branchiostegal rays, places it, together with Boleosoma and Pileoma, at the 

 end of his family of Theraponidce, but adds that he "cannot, without more 

 data, fix their proper place in the system." 



No notice has been taken of the genus Lahrosomus, except in a reference of 

 Lepisoma cirrhosum Dekay to it, in a recent number of the Proceedings of 

 the Academy of Natural Sciences. That this is entitled to distinction appears 

 to be evident, and its characters are now given. 



LabrosomusSw., emend. 

 Synonymy. 



Labrisomus Sw., Nat. Hist., Fishes, Amphibians and Reptiles, vol. ii. pp. 75j 

 182, 277, 1839. 



Lepisoma Dekay, Zoology of New York, Fishes, p. 11, 1842. 



Blennius sp. auct. 



Clinus sp. auct. 



Body oblong, highest at the pectoral fins, thence attenuated towards the 

 caudal. Scales moderate, covering the body and encroaching upon the verti- 

 cal fins. Head compressed, naked, declining from the nape with a slight 

 curve. Eyes large, separated by a narrow interval. Superciliary tentacles 

 multifid, and one or two transverse rows of filaments across the nape. Nostrils 

 approximated ; the anterior ones with a tufted barbel on the posterior border. 

 Teeth in the anterior row stout, recurved, conic and pointed, behind which is 

 a band of villiform teeth. Vomerine and palatine teeth stout and conic, gene- 

 rally in a single row. Dorsal fin commencing near the nape ; the spinous por- 

 tion long, and with from sixteen to eighteen rays, slowly decreasing in height 

 to the soft portion ; the latter oblong, with its rays subequal and higher than 

 the spinous portions. Caudal fin moderate, truncate or rounded, and discon- 

 nected from the dorsal and anal fins. Ventral fins jugular, closely approxi- 

 mated, each composed of three rays. 



1. Labrosomus pec tinifer /S'lt'. 

 Synonymy. 



Clinus pectinifer Val., Hist. Nat. des Poissons, vol. xi. p. 374, 1836. 



Labrisomus pectinifer Sw., Nat. Hist., Fishes, Amphibians and Reptiles, vol. 

 ii, p. 277, 1839. 



Lepisoma cirrhosum Dekay, Zoology of New York, Fishes, p. 41, pi. 30, fig, 

 94, 1842. 



Lepisoma cirrhosum Storer, Synopsis of Fishes of North America, p. 49, ib. 

 in Memoirs American Academy, 1856. 



Clinus pectinifer Mlill. and Troschel con Schomburgh Annals and Magazine 

 Nat. Hist., 2d ser. vol. ii, p. 16 ; ib. in Schomburgh's Barbados. 



Clinus pectinifer Castlenau, Animaux nouveaux on rares recueilles &c., dans 

 I'Amerique du sud. Poissons, p. 26, 1855. 



Labrosomus pectinifer Gill, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1860, p. 21. 



There can scarcely remain a doubt of the identity of the Lepisoma ci r rh o- 

 s u m of Dr. Dekay with the Labrosomus pectinifer. The only difi'erence 

 between the description of Dekay and that of Valenciennes, is respecting the 

 I860.] 




106 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



orbital and nuchal filaments. The orbital filaments are stated by Dr. Dekay to 

 "subdivide into six or eight smaller processes, each of which terminate in 

 several slender filaments, not thicker than the finest thread ;" Valenciennes 

 describes them as divided to their base in ten or twelve slender filaments. 

 Dr. Dekay informs us that the nuchal filaments are nine or ten on each side, 

 each bifid or trifid ; Valenciennes describes them as being arranged in two 

 pectiniform rows, each row consisting of thirty or more. 



Another variation of Lepisoma cirrhosum from Labrosomus pectinifer 

 is concerning the vomero-palatine dentition ; Dekay mentions that "in the 

 upper jaw, in front, is a series of equal, conical, slightly recurved teeth, some- 

 what longer than those below, smaller on the sides ; behind the outer row, in 

 front, is a patch of minute crowded teeth. Similar teeth in bands on the 

 vomer and palates. On the anterior part of the vomer is a very large solitary 

 tooth." This description of the vomerine and palatine teeth is ambiguous, 

 and may be variously interpreted. If by it is meant that the vomero-palatine 

 teeth are in several rows, or in a villiform band, it widely disagrees with the 

 Labrosomus pectinifer. In the latter species there is but one row of stout 

 conic teeth, like those of the outer row of the upper jaw, with " a very large 

 solitary tooth on the anterior part of the vomer." A figure is given of the 

 dentition of the Lepisoma cirrhosum, but very little reliance can be 

 placed on it. The vomerine and palatine teeth are certainly represented as 

 l^luriserial, but there is no "very large solitary tooth " represented on the 

 vomer. A doubt may therefore arise respecting the propriety of referring 

 Lepisoma cirrhosum to Labrosomus pectinifer. Considering, however, 

 that the description of the former, in ail respects except those above men- 

 tioned, agrees with the latter ; that the number of rays is almost exactly 

 similar ; that in each, a larger tooth is at the front of the vomer, and that the 

 description and figure of the dentition of Lepisoma cirrhosum do not agree 

 with each other ; it appears almost certain that the two belong to the same 

 species, and that error has entered into the description and illustration of the 

 species as well as in the allocation of the genus. 



The Labrosomus pectinifer is widely distributed through the Caribbean 

 Sea, and is found at the Islands of Barbados, Trinidad, St. Thomas, Jamaica, 

 Cuba, as well as at the Bahama Islands and on the coast of Florida. 



The specimens from which Valenciennes described the species were obtained 

 at Brazil and at Bahia. A specimen from Brazil does not specifically differ 

 from West Indian ones. 



Valenciennes even observes that it is one of the small number of species 

 that cross the Atlantic ocean. A specimen is stated by him to have been ob- 

 tained by Adanson among the rocks of the Island of Gorea, in January, 1750. 



2. Labrosomus fasciatus Gill. 



Clinus fasciatus Castelnun, Animaux nouveaux ou rares recueilles, &e., 

 dans I'Amerique du sud. Poissons, p. 26, pi. xii. fig. 2, 1855. 



This species is very closely related to the Labrosomus pectinifer Siv., 

 and it was at first believed that it was probably only a variety. My friend, J. 

 C. Brevoort, Esq., has since sent me an outline of the figure of Castelnau and 

 a copy of his description, and I am now disposed to regard it as a true species. 



The Labrosomus pectinifer is sometimes found with four dark brown 

 vertical bars, between which are smaller and more obscure ones, interrupted 

 at the middle. Such appears to have been the variety mentioned by Drs. 

 Miiller and Troschel in their list of the Fishes collected by Sir Robert Schom- 

 burgh at the island of Barbados, and published in the "Annals and Magazine 

 of Natural History ' ' and the History of Barbados. This variety, in every 

 other respect, resembles typical individuals of the species, and has, like them, 

 the rays of the caudal and pectoral fins covered with five or six rows of spots. 



[April, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 107 



In the normal variety of tlie Labrosomus pectinifer, the bands, although 

 present, are faint and confused. 



The Labrosomus fasciatus, from the figure and description of Castlenau, 

 appears to differ from the L. pectinifer or its variety, by the absence of 

 the intermediate, interrupted and fainter bands, and of the rows of spots on 

 the caudal, by the red color of the abdomen and opercula, and of the ventral, 

 pectoral and caudal fins, as well as of the broad marginal band of the soft por- 

 tion of the dorsal fin. The following is the description given by Castlenau : 



" Ressemble pour la forme an pectinifer, et a une tache semblable a I'oper- 

 cule. Le corps est d'un brun clair avec quatre, larges bandes transversales 

 d'un brun tres obscur ; I'opercule, la gorge, la partie inferieure de la tete et 

 la moitie anterieure des dessons du corps sont d'un beau rouge vix ; les 

 nageoires anale et ventrale sont de cette meme couleur. 



"De Rio Janeiro." 



3. Labrosomus capillatus Sw. 

 Synonymy. 

 Clinvs capillatus Val., Hist. Nat. des Poissons, vol. xl. p. 377. 

 Labrisomus capillatus Sw., Nat. Hist. Fishes, Amphibians and Reptiles, vol. 

 ii. p. 277. 



Clinus capillatus Miill and Trosch., con Schomburgh, Annals and Mag. of 

 Nat. Hist. 2d sei'. vol. ii. p. 16 ; ib. in Schomburgh's Barbados. 



The Labrosomus capillatus is recorded as an inhabitant of the same 

 coasts as the L. p e c t i n i f e r. It is very nearly allied to the latter, but 

 difiers from it by the immaculate pectoral fins, and the spot on the operculum 

 is bordered with white. 



4. Labrosomus Xanti Gill. 



This species in form and proportions is very nearly allied to Labrosomus 

 pe ct inifer. 



It attains a length of about six inches. Of the length, the head, from the 

 front row of teeth to the margin of the operculum forms a fourth part, and 

 the caudal fin about a seventh. The greatest height is rather less than the 

 head's length. The dorsal outline from the nape to the posterior third of the 

 dorsal fin is nearly straight and scarcely convex, and thence gradually declines 

 in a slight curve to the end of the fin, when the height of the caudal peduncle 

 is scarcely more than a fourth of the length of the head. 



The profile from the eyes to the snout slopes more gradually than in Labro- 

 somus pectinifer, and the suborbital is less broad. 



The dorsal commences behind the vertical of the preopercle, and the spines 

 regularly increase in height towards the middle of the spinous portion, and 

 thence slightly decrease towards the soft portion, which is almost twice as high 

 as the last spine. 



The pectoral fins are produced at its middle rays, and their length is equal 

 to nearly a fifth of that of the body. The articulated rays of all the fins are 

 simple and unbranched as in its congener. 



D xviii.-4-13 ; A iii. 18 ; C 7-f 7 ; P 14 ; V 3. 



The color of the body is brown, crossed by about ten darker bands. The 

 head is dotted with blackish, and from the posterior and inferior borders of 

 the eye, two bands proceed obliquely to the margin of the preopercle. The 

 opercle is darker than the preopercle, but there is no black spot. The dorsal 

 has the basal portion of the membrane between the first and third spines 

 blackish ; the rest of the n embrane is tinged witli purple, but immaculate. 

 The basal half of the fin is covered with scales as in Labrosomus pectinifer. 

 The anal fin is crossed by six obHque purplish bands. The caudal, pectorals 

 and ventrals are immaculate. 

 I860.] 




108 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



This species is rerv cearlr allied to the West Indian Labrosomus p e c t i n i- 

 fer and L. oapillat n s 5ir., but diflers from them in color and some minor 

 details of form. The median tooth of the front of the vomer, which is so 

 large in the Labrosomus pectiuifer, is of the same size as the othei-s in 

 the Labrosomus x a n t i. 



Old and youu^r specimens were obtained by Mr. J. Xantus under rocks on 

 Cerro Blanco. They are numbered 2334, 2335 and 247S in the collection of 

 the Smithsonian Institution. 



I have dedicated this species to Mr. Xantus as a slight testimony to his 

 worth and abilities : while engaged in his duties on the coast survey, and with 

 many obstacles to contend against, on account of the present condition of af- 

 fairs in Mexico, he has obtained a collection of terrestrial and marine animals, 

 which is rich in new forms, and all the species of which are in the highest 

 state of preservation. 



5. Labrosomus Herminieri Gill. 

 Su^onymy. 



Blenniiis Serminieri Leseur, Journ. Acad. Kat. Sci. Pa., vol. iv. p. 361> 

 1825. 



Clintts Herminieri Val., Hist. Nat. des Poissons, vol. xi. p. 



This species appears to be nearly related to the other species of the gemis, but 

 is distinguished by the presenceof only sixteen spines in the dorsal fin. and by 

 a different pattern of coloration. The dorsal fin anteriorly has an elongate 

 black spot. "The cheeks and head are rufouis brown, vermicular with little 

 blackish lines, which form an irregular kind of close net work."' 



The radial formula is as follows : 



D lii. 11; A 20: P 16 : V3; C 14. 



Specimens were taken at the "West Indian Island of St. Bartholomews, in 

 cavities of madreporic rocks, in the month of June, ISIG, by C. A. Lesueur. 

 It has not since been re-discovered. 



Monograph of the Genus LABRAX, of CuTier. 

 BY THEO. GILL. 



There is found, in the Mediterranean sea, a fish which has, from the earliest 

 times. attn\cted the attention of the inhabit^ints of the neighboring coasts from 

 the abundance in which it is found and the size to which it attaius. By the 

 Ancients, as at the present day, it was much esteemed as an article of food, and 

 was called by the Greeks Axjfa^ and by the Romans, Lupus. Of this fish, 

 Cuvier has said that its appearance and almost all the details of its form recall 

 to mind the pfrch. and that a just idea would be given of it by describing it as 

 a " Airyj-. flonijoted ond silvfry perch." 



From the Perches, however, it difters in several characters, which induced 

 Cuvier to separate it generically, and for the name of the genus, he adopted the 

 Greek designation of the species. The characters by which Cuvier distinguished 

 it from the Perches wore the presence of teeth on the tongue and of two spines to 

 the operculum. It diflers also from the true Perches in the armature of some 

 of its bones, and by the shorter spinous dorsal tin, whose rays, in the European 

 and allied American species, do not exceed the number of nine. 



Though Cuvier was the first to properly distinguish the genus, its type had 

 been long previously placed by Klein as the first of two species which he placed 

 in a group, for which he used the same name o( La!>rai. 



In the second and third volumes of the great •• Ilistoire Xatnrelle des 

 Poissons," Cuvier and Valenciennes have referred to the genus Labrax seven 

 species, six of which are described in the former volume. 



Of these, the Labrax lupus is the tvpe of the genus, and is distinguished bv 



[April, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 109 



ihe spur-like spines of the inferior margin of the preoperculum ; the presence 

 of a perfect marginal band of teeth and of an oval basal patch on the tongue; 

 three spines to the anal fin, and other characters which will bo noticed iu the 

 diagnosis of the genus. To this should the name of Labrax be restricted. 



The second species (le Bar alonge, or Perca clongata of Geoffrey) is distin- 

 guished by finer and more numerous teeth on the inferior border of the preoper- 

 culum, and the presence of only two anal spines. This is doubtless the type of 

 a distinct genus to which the name of Dicentrarchxis may be given. 



The third species is the Labrax 1 i n e a t u s of Cuvier. the common rock fish 

 and striped bass of the United States. This is now taken as the type of a new 

 genus, for which Mitchell's name of Rocci'S is preserved. The characters are 

 given below. To this genus should be also referred the I.abrax multiline- 

 atus described by Cuvier and Valenciennes in the third volume of their 

 "Histoire." 



Tlie fourth species, Labrax Waigiensis, has been identified by Bleeker 

 with the I'sammoperca datnioides of Richardson; if this is correct, — and 

 notwithstanding the discrepancies between the descriptions of the " Histoire 

 Naturelle" and Richardson, such appears to be the case — it belongs to a very 

 distinct genus from Labrax 1 u pu s . The teeth of the jaws, vomer and palatines 

 are described by Richardson as crowded, rounded ixni^ granular, vf\x\\Q by Cuvier 

 the teeth on both jaws, the chevron of the vomer and the palatines are said to be 

 villiform (" dents en velours "); it is also stated by Cuvier that there is a small 

 oval disc at the base of the tongue. By Richardson, the tongue is said to be 

 smooth. In the latter statement, however, he disiigrees not only with Cuvier 

 and Valenciennes, but with Bleeker, who also asserts* that there is an oblong 

 patch at the base of the tongue; ''lingua basi thurma denticulorum scabra." 

 Both authors agree as to the presence of a single spine to the operculum 

 (although one of the generic characters assigned to J^ahrax by Cuvier is the 

 presence of two spines on that bone), and of a strong horizontal spine at the 

 angle of the preoperculum, above which the margin is pectinated. 



The next species in order, — Labrax Jap on ions oi Cuv. and Fa/., — is the 

 type of Ihe genus Latkolabrax of Bleeker, which is widely separated from 

 Labrax by the absence of any teeth on the tongue. In the plectroid armature 

 of the operculum it, however, resembles that genus. 



The last species — Labrax m u c r o n a t u s — is now taken as the type of a new 

 genus, for which the name of Morone is accepted. Its generic characters and 

 affinities will be given at length in a subsequent portion of this memoir. 



Of the seven species referred by Cuvier and Valenciennes to the genus Labrax, 

 six are thus seen to belong to different genera. Nor do any of these genera 

 appear to be unnecessary, but on the contrary, all of them are well distinguished 

 from each other by characters that ichthyologists must admit are of importance ; 

 two of the species, indeed, that were referred to the genus by the French nat- 

 uralists, do not agree with their characters of that genus. It is not in dispar- 

 agement of those celebrated and able men that these remarks have been made. 

 The progress of scientific discovery and the examination of better materials 

 have enabled their successors to discover the errors of the founders of modern 

 ichthyology. None could have performed the work at that day better than they. 

 Having long since, from an examination of the descriptions of various 

 authors, been aware of the confusion and uncertainty in which our American 

 species of the Cuvieran Labraz were enveloped, I have thought that it might be 

 a useful task' to attempt the elucidation of the genus. More than three years 

 ago, I had noticed that the Labrax rufus of Z)fAro?/ belonged to a dift'erent 

 natural genus from Labrax, but not having then had an opportunity of exam- 

 ining the European species, I believed that the Labrax 1 i n e a t u s was a true 

 Labrax. The name which I had then applied to the Labrax rufus having 

 never been published, I have now renounced it for that of Mitchell, not b liuse 



*Natuurkundig Tydschrift voor Nederlandsch Indie, vol. ii. p. 479. 



18G0.] 




110 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



he was the author of the genus, but because the name had been applied; 

 though from a false idea, to one of its species. 



The number of American species admitted by Drs. Dekay and Storer in the 

 genus Lahrax amounts to seven, and another specific name has been since added 

 by Filippi, an Italian naturalist. It will be attempted to demonstrate, in the 

 following monograph, that all of these nominal species are referrable to three 

 true ones. Three of the synonyms applj' to one species and four to another. 



Besides the species that have been attributed to the genus by Richardson, 

 Dekay and Filippi, several others have been described under that name by 

 modern naturalists. Dr. Charles Girard has noticed two of these in the "Pro- 

 ceedings of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia," under the name 

 of Labrax nebulosus and L. clathratus. He afterwards constructed 

 for tliem a new genus which he called Faralahrax, and placed it in the vicinity 

 of Serranus. They appear truly to belong there, or perhaps to the group com- 

 posed oi Elastoma Sw., or Macrops Dumeril, and Elelis Cuv. 



Mr. Hill, of Jamaica, in a useful catalogue of the Fishes of that island, has 

 also noticed a iish which he referred to Labrax, under the name ofL. pluvia- 

 1 i s , or the rainy weather chub. It is said by that gentleman to be confounded 

 by the fishermen with the Labrax mucronatus, but differs from it by the 

 presence of vertical bars, like those of the common perch of Europe and America. 

 Is not this related to the Perca Plumieri of Cuvier and Valenciennes? The 

 presence of the vertical bars would militate against its natural association with 

 M o r o n e , and it may perhaps be the type of a distinct genus or belong to the 

 genus Percichthys of Girard 



For the facilties of investigating iatT the history of this group I am indebted 

 to the Museum of the Smithsonian Institution. 



I. Labrax (Klein) Cuv. emend. 

 Synonymy. 



Lahrax Klein, Miss. V. p. 25, 1749. 



Perca sp. Linn. auct. 



Sciana sp. Bloch. 



Centropome sp. Lac. 



Perseque sp. Lac. 



Labrax sp. Cuv. Regne Animal, ed. prima, vol. ii. 1817. 



Dentes maxillares, palatini et vomerini velutioi; dentes linguales velutini in 

 raargine totio et fascia longitudinali mediana dispositi. Squamae occipitaleset 

 interorbitales, et in genis pleurusque cycloidese vel vix pectinatae. Preoper- 

 culum postice serratum vel pectinatum, ad angulum plerumque subtusque 

 spinis recurvatis antrorsum spectantibus. Operculum biaculeatura. Pinnsp 

 dorsales ad basin baud membrana elevata conjunctse; pinna dorsalis prima 

 numero radiorum baud decern superante. Pinna analis spinis tribus inmagni- 

 tudine regulariter increscentibus. 



The genus Labrax, as above restricted, is chiefly distinguished by the contin- 

 uous band of villiform teeth around the margin of the tongue, and the oval 

 disc at its base. It is most intimately allied to the genus Hoccus, from which it 

 is separated by the character of the lingual dentition and the plectroid inferior 

 margin of the preoperculum ; the latter character is seen in the less nearly 

 allied genus, Lnteolahrax of Bleeker. 



But a single species of this genus is yet known. 



Labrax diacanthus Gill. 

 Synonymy (^partim.) 

 Perca labrax Linn. Systema Naturae. 

 Scicena diacantha Bloch. 

 The full synonymy of this species can be ascertained by reference to the 



[April. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. Ill 



"Fauna Italica" of the Prince of Canino; as it has been given by Cuvier as 

 well as Canino, it is not necessary to more than refer to it here. 



As many names had been given to the species before it was designated 

 Labrax lupus by Cuvier, that name cannot be retained if we are to be guided 

 by the rules of priority. A specific name given to it by Bloch is therefore 

 adopted. 



In the edition of the " Systema Naturae " by Gmelin, the European Labrax 

 appears under the name of Perca punctata. Cuvier and Valenciennes have 

 shown that this name is onlj- a misapplication of one by Linnasus, who had 

 given it to a Scitenoid from North America, which he placed immediately before 

 the Perca labrax in his System. Gmelin, in his edition of the same work, 

 has by mistake omitted both the description of the Linneeau Perca punctata 

 and the name of Perca labrax, so that the name of the former is there ap- 

 plied to the description of the latter. Bloch has also applied the name of 

 Perca punctata to the young of Labrax diacanthus, but without allu- 

 sion to the names of Linnieus or Gmelin. As the name thus applied would 

 have at that time conflicted with the one of Linn^us, it should not be retained. 

 The name of Sciajna diacantha coming next in order, its specific part must 

 be adopted. Although the name of Lupus was bestowed on this species by the 

 ancient Romans, that does not appear to constitute a valid reason for accepting 

 it as a scientific name. 



II. DlCENTRARCHUS Gill. 



Synonymy. 



Perca sp. Geoffrey. 

 Labrax sp. Cuv. et Val. 



Genus Labrici Cuv. simile, sed preoperculo margine inferiore deutibus uon 

 validis, et pinna analis solum spinis duabus. 



Dicentrarchus elongatus Gill. 

 Synonymy. 

 Le Bar along^ Cuv. and Val., Hist. Nat. des Poissons, vol. il. p. 79. 

 This species I have never seen, but it evidently belongs to a distinct genus, 

 and I have been, in a measure, compelled to give it a name in order to present a 

 perfect view of the classification of the Labraces. 



The species is an inhabitant of the Mediterranean sea. 



The synonymy of the species is given in the second volume of the " Histoire 

 Naturelle des Poissons," to which reference is made. 



III. Roccus (Mitch.) Gill. 



Synonymy. 



Sciaina sp. Bloch. 



Perca sp. Bloch, Schneid., Mitchell, 1818. 



Centropome sp. Lac. 



Roccus sp. Mitchell, Report in part on the Fishes of New York, p. 25, 1814. 



I/cpibema Raf. Ichthyologia Ohiensis, p. 23, 1820. 



Labrax sp. Cuv., et Vol. 



Corpus gracile vel oblongo-ovatum, dorso antice curvato. Dentes max- 

 illares, palatini etvomerini velutini ; dentes linguales velutini, in fasciis later- 

 alibus et ad basin in seriebus duabus longitudinalibus separatis vel coalescent- 

 ibus dispositi. Squamse a nucha ad nares et in genis plerusque cycloidea. 

 Preoperculum postice subtusque pectinatura, operculum biaculeatum. Pinna- 

 dorsales ad basin non membrana elevata conjunctns. Pinna dorsalis prim.i 

 numero radiorum non decern superante. Pinna analis spinis tribus in magni- 

 tudine regulariter increscentibus. Linea lateralis rectilinearis, 



I860.] 




112 PROCEEDIXGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



The genus Rocciis is very closely allied to both Labrax, as here revised, and 

 Moroiie. From Labrax it differs chiefly ia the character of the armature of the 

 preoperculum, and by the absence of the teeth at the anterior extremity of the 

 tongue; the whole margin of the tongue in the latter genus being provided 

 with a band of villiform teeth, and the spur-formed teeth of the inferior margin 

 of the preoperculum calling to mind the genus PUctropoma of Cuvier among the 

 Serrani. The difference between the last named genus — or at least of many of 

 its species — and Serranus is indeed not of as great value as that between Labrax 

 and Roccus. The only constant character between Serranus and Plectropoma, as 

 those genera were established by Cuvier, is the spur-like dentition of the 

 inferior border of the preoperculum, while Labrax and Roccus are distinguished 

 not only by an equally great and constant difference of the preopercular border, 

 but also by the difference of the lingual dentition. As the former character is 

 of as great value in the Labraces as in the Serrani, consistency will require that 

 if Plectropoma and Serranus are considered as distinct genera, Roccus &ndi Labrax 

 should also be so regarded. 



The difference between Roccus and Morone is of even more importance than 

 that of Roccus and Labrax. The distinguishing characters will be referred to 

 under the diagnosis of Morone. 



The name which has been adopted for this genus is one given by Dr. Mitchell, 

 in the year 1814, to a medley comprising the Roccus lineatus, which he 

 called Roccus s tr i at u s , and the Otolithus re gal is, which was designated 

 as Roccus comes. The name was solely the result of ignorance on the part 

 of the author, of the application of the ordinary terms used by naturalists at 

 that day. The name itself is a barbarous latinization of the popular name, 

 rock fish, by which its chief species is known in many parts of the United 

 States. Notwithstanding these facts, it has been nevertheless deemed more 

 advisable to accept the name than to apply a new one. It is scarcely worse 

 than Rallus, Kangurus, Catus, Gunnellus, and many other names of similar 

 derivation. 



Rafinesque, in the " Ichthyologia Ohiensis," also proposed for his Perca 

 chrysops, in case it should be found to be generically distinct from Perca, 

 the name of Lepibema. He believed it to be distinguished " by the scaly bases 

 of the caudal, anal and second dorsal fins, the last with some spiny rays, and 

 all the three parts of the gill cover more or less serrulate, besides the small 

 teeth." Rafinesque suggested that to this genus the Perca Mitchelli of 

 Jlitcbell might " perhaps be found to belong." 



The genus Roccus may be divided into two sections. 



§1. Corpus elongatum ; dentes ad linguae basin in seriebus longitudinalibus 

 duabus ordinati. 



Roccus lineatus Gill. 

 Synonymy. 

 Scicena lineata Bloch, Ichthyologie, pars. ix. p. 53, pi. 305. 



Perca SchoepfiF., Schrift. der Gesells. Nat. Freund, vol. viii. p. 160. 



Perca saxatilis Bloch, Systema Ichthyologite, Schneid. ed. p. 89. 



Perca septentrionalis Bloch, Systema Ichthyologiae, Schneid. ed. p. 90, pi. 70. 



Centropome raye Lac, Hist. Nat. des Poissons, vol. iv. p, 225. 



Roccus striatus Mitchell, Report in part on the fishes of New Vork, p. 25, 1814. 



Perca Mitchelli MitchelL Trans. Lit. and Phil. Soc, N. Y., vol. i. p. 413, pi. 3 



fig. 4. 

 Rock-Fish Mease, Trans. Lit and Phil. Soc, N. Y., vol. i. p. 502. 



^^aSheUi \ ^^f- Ichthiologia Ohiensis, p. 23, (passim). 

 Labrax lineatus Cuv. et Val., Hist. Nat. des Poissons, vol. ii. p. 79. 

 Perca labrax! Smith, Nat. Hist. Fishes of Mass., p. 277. 



[April, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 113 



Labrax lineatus Rich., Fauna Boreali-Americana, vol iii. p. 10. 

 " " Storer, Report on the Fishes of Mass., p. 7. 



" " Ayres, Boston Journ. Nat. Hist., vol. iv. p. 757. 



" " Dekay, Zoology of New York, Fishes, p. 7, pl..l. fig. 3. 



" " Liosley, Catalogue of Fishes of Connecticut. 



" " Storer, Synopsis Fishes of N. America, p. 21, ib. in Memoirs 



Am. Acad. 

 " " Storer. Hist. Fishes of Mass., ib. in Memoirs Am. Acad., vol. 



v. p. 55, pi. 1, fig. 4.,1853. 

 " " Baird, Report on Fishes of New Jersey coast, p. ib. in Ninth 



Annual Report of Smith. Inst., p. 321. 

 " " ' Holbrook, Ichthyology of South Carolina, p. 17, pi. iv. fig. 2, 



" " Gill, Annual Report Smith. Inst., 1857, p. 255. 



This species is so well known and has been so frequently described and 

 figured that no description is here needed. The best that has appeared is that 

 of Holbrook in the Ichthyology of South Carolina; in that, the only correct 

 account of the lingual dentition published by any American author, is given. 

 The best illustration of the species is given bj' Sonrel in Dr. Storer's " History 

 of the Fishes of Massachutsetts," and is superior to that of Dr. Holbrook. 



Cuvier and Valenciennes have described the tongue as having asperities only 

 en its sides, while other naturalists have stated that the teeth on the tongue are 

 most obvious on its sides," or more correctly that the "tongue is rough at its 

 base and upon its sides and smooth in the centre." Dr. Holbrook has well said 

 that " there are two bands of minute teeth, at the root of the tongue, separated 

 slightly from each other in the mesial line ; the sides of the tongue are also 

 armed with small teeth." 



Prof. Filippi, a learned naturalist of Turin, has also correctly described the 

 lingual dentition of Roccus lineatus in comparison with a species of the 

 genus which he regarded as new, but which has, in this monograph, been con- 

 sidered as identical with the Roccus chrysops. 



I II. Corpus oblongo-ovatum, compressum ; dentes ad linguae basin in turma 

 ovali aggregati. 



Roccus chrysops Gill. 

 Syno7iyviy. 



Perca chrysops » ^^^ Ichthyologia Ohiensis, p. 28. 



Labrax multilineatus Cuv. and Val., His, Nat. des Poissons, vol. iii. p. 588. 



Perca multilineata h^s. fide Cuv. and Val. 



Labrax notatus Smith, in Rich. Fauna Boreali-Americana, vol. iii. p. 8, 1836. 



Labrax multilineatus Kirtland, Boston Journal Nat. Hist., vol. v. p. 21, pi. 7, 

 fig. 1. 

 " " Dekay, Nat. Hist, of New York Fishes, p. 14. 



Labrax albidus Dekay, Nat. Hist, of New York Fishes, p. 13, pi. 51, fig. 165. 



Labrax notatus Dekay, loc. cit., p. 14. 



Labrax multilineatus Storer, Synopsis of the Fishes of North America, p. 22, 

 ib. in Memoirs of American Acad. 



Labrax notatus Storer, loc. cit., p. 22. 



Labrax albidus Storer, loc. cit., p. 23. 



Ijabraxosculatii Filippi, Revue et Magazin de Zoologie, 2d series, vol. v. p. 164. 



Labrax chrysops Gill, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., Phila., 1860, p. 20. 

 Non Labrax chrysops Girard. 



The Roccus chrysops of this monograph is undoubtedly identical with 

 the Perca or Lepibema chrysops of Rafinesquc, and the Labrax multi- 

 lineatus of the " Histoire Naturelle des Poissons" and of Kirtland. The 

 descriptions that have been j-et given of the species under tiiose names are 

 meagre and unsatisfactory, but the notice of the color given bv the above 



I860.] 



7 




114 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



named authors and the possession of specimens from the same hvdrographioal 

 basins as those from whence the fishes described by them were taken, leave no 

 doubt as to the identity of the species. 



Rafinesque's description of his Perca c h r y s o p s is, like almost all his des- 

 criptions, inapplicable to any knowa fish, but it agrees with the Morone 

 chrysops better than any other species. Rafinesque erroneously attributes 

 to his specie? six branchiostegal rays, a single opercular spine, eight spines to 

 the first dorsal fin. and places it under the genus Perca, all the species of which , 

 he informs us, have naked heads. He proposed for it a new genus to which he 

 gave the name Lepibema, in allusion to the scaly bases of the unpaired fins. 



Lesueur subsequently sent to the Parisian Museum two specimens of a species 

 which he called Perca raultilineata, which Cuvier and Valenciennes 

 placed in their genus Labrax, but adopted for it the specific name of Lesueur. 

 Their description is mostly comparative, it being said to differ from the Labras 

 liueatus by its higher body, shorter head, more feeble teeth, the stronger 

 asperities of the tongue, and especially the larger scales of the maxillaries, 

 which resemble those of Labrax mucronatus, while in Labrax lineatUB 

 they were said to be scarcely perceptible. 



The description of the lingual dentition is verj- unsatisfactory, and no cor- 

 rection is made of the statement made in the second volume that the Labrax 

 lineatus has onl}' lateral teeth. It is not in the development of the asperi- 

 ties of the tongue that the lingual dentition of the species differs, but that while 

 there are two narrow rows separated by a mesial line in Roccus lineatus, 

 the rows are broader at the middle, in proportion, and coalescent in Roccus 

 chrysops. 



There were said to be in one specimen sixteen, and in another, nineteen 

 longitudinal dark lines. So large a number is rarely seen ; the most constant 

 arrangement is five above, including the one through which the lateral line 

 runs, while sometimes there are several below the lateral line, and at other 

 times they are obsolete. These lines are sometimes straight, but often in- 

 terrupted. 



In the " Fauna Boreali-Americana " of Richardson, a Labrax is described in 

 the volume on Ichthyology, under the name of Labrax not at us (Sinitk), the 

 Bar-fish or Canadian Basse." This species is said to '■ differ from Mitchell's 

 Basse (L. lineatus Cuv.) in being much more robust, and in being marked 

 with rows of spots, five above and five below the lateral line, so regularly in- 

 terrupted and transposed as to appear like ancient church music." It has been 

 suggested by Dr. Dekay that it is the same as the Perca Mitch elli, var. 

 interrupt us of Mitchell, but the comparison will apply very well to Roccus 

 chrysops, and it is doubtless identical with that species. In the remarks 

 upon the species, it is said — by Dr. Richardson apparently — that -'in the more 

 robust form, and in the strong scales of the head, the Canadian Bar-fish resem- 

 bles the L. mucronatus of the United States and the West Indies, and the 

 L. multilineatus of the Wabash. The latter has sixteen narrow, black, 

 longitudinal lines on the flanks." It has been attempted to show that the 

 number of lines is not a specific character, and if this is the case, the Labrax 

 n t a t u s and L. multilineatus are probably identical with each other 

 and with Roccus chrysops. The Librax not at us, it is true, is stated 

 by Smith to have but one anal spine and six articulated ventral rays, but this 

 statement is undoubtedly due to a lapsus calami or an error of observation. So 

 great a variation, in the number of anal spines, from a nearly allied species, 

 would be in direct opposition to all we know of the peculiarities of the fishes 

 of this tribe, while it is one of the characters of the family to have only five 

 branched rays in the ventral fins. Smith states that he counted fifty-eight 

 scales along the lateral line, a statement which confirms the identity of this 

 epecies with Roccus chrysops. 



In the abstracts of Smith's description of Labrax n o t a t u s , given by Dekay 



[April; 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 115 



and Storer, the species is said to have the "length, one to two feet." If this 

 was so, it might militate against the idea of its identity with Roccus c h ry - 

 sops, but an examination of the description of Smith and Richardson reveals 

 no mention whatever of the size of the species. 



In the number of Gueria's ''Revue et Magazin de Zoologie," for April, 1853, 

 (vol. V. p. 164,) Professor Filippi, of Turin, has described a, Eoccus to which he 

 has given the name of Labrax s c u 1 a t i i , a traveller in America, M. Oscu- 

 lati, having obtained it from Lake Ontario. Filippi has distinguished this 

 species from Labrax line at us very well, alludiog to the two longitudinal 

 lines of basal teeth in that species, and attributing to his own a single oval 

 patch. His other characters are the greater heighth of the body in L. s c u - 

 la til, which equals a third of the length, while ia L. line at us it is a 



'J 

 quarter; and the number of scales, which are formulated as 56 — for L. 



9 15 



Osculatii, and 64 — for L. lineatus. The true teeth are also said to 



11 

 be more numerous. The distinctive characters of the species are very well 

 stated by Filippi, but his expression of surprise that a fish so common in the 

 United States should not have been noticed by any American naturalist, not 

 even by Dr. Dekay, is uncalled for. Unhappily, the species had been too often 

 noticed, and in Dekay's Ichthyology of New York it appears under no less than 

 three different names. Filippi has mentioned its habitat as the sea and rivers 

 of the United States (Mare et fluviis confederationis Americanje). I know not 

 on what authority it is said to inhabit the sea; it is probably assumed to be 

 found there because the Roccus lineatus is. So far as we now know, it is 

 confined to the great fresh water lakes and the Western rivers. 



Specimens of the Roccus chrysops are in the Museum of the Smithsonian 

 Institution, from southern Illinois, obtained by Mr, Robert Kennicott, and from 

 the Root river at Racine, Wisconsin, Toronto, &;c., obtained by Professor Baird. 



The specimens from the hydrographical basins of the Ohio river and of the 

 Great Lakes cannot be specifically distinguished from each other. Nor can I 

 perceive the difference signalized by Dr. Kirtland in the caudal fins of Ohio and 

 Lake Erie specimens. 



In extreme youth, tliis species appears to be crossed by obscure vertical 

 bands; at a later epoch these bands are lost, and afterwards the longitudinal 

 lines are assumed. 



The best descriptions of this species have been published by Prof. Filippi 

 under the name of Labrax Osculatii, and by the late Dr. Dekay under that 

 of Labrax albidus. The best figure is that given by Dr. Kirtland in the 

 Journal of the Boston Society of Natural History, but the dorsals are errone- 

 ously represented as being connected by a low membrane. In the text they are 

 correctly described as being " distinct." 



IV. MoRONE. (Mitch.) Gill. 



Synonr/mf/. 



Perca sp., Bloch, Gmel. Lac. 



Morone sp., Mitchell. 



Bodianus sp,, Mitchell. 



Labrax sp,, Raf, 



Corpus oblongo-ovatum, gibbosuna ad pinnje dorsalis initiiim. Denies max- 

 illares, palatini et vomerini velutini ; dentes lingnales in margine totio dispo- 

 siti, ad basin carentes, Squamse in capite totio bene pectinatae, Preoperculum 

 postice subtusque pectinatum. Operculum biaculeatum. Pinnae dorsales ad 

 hasin membrana paulo elevata conjunctae; pinna dorsalis spinosa radiis 

 numero non decern superantibus. Pinna analis spinis tribus, quarum secun- 

 da ssepe major est. Linea lateralis antice conrexa vix dorso concurrens. 

 I860.] 




116 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



The chief distinctive characters of the genus are the presence of strongly 

 pectinated scales on the cheeks and opercular bones, and the band of vUliform 

 teeth on the sides and of more scattered ones at the tip. 



In the armature of the preoperculum and operculum, it resembles the genu3 

 Boccus. In the connection of the dorsal fins at the base, the less allied Pacific 

 genera Lateolabrax of Bleeker, and Psammoperca of Richardson. The slightly 

 gibbous back in front of the dorsal fin, and the greater developement of the 

 second anal spine are secondary features, which support the natural characters 

 of Morone as distinguished from the genus Roccus. 



For the name of the genus, one used by Mitchell for a group founded in 

 error, has been adopted. The name of Mitchell resulted from a misunder- 

 standing of that author regarding the value of the terms made use of by Lin- 

 naeus. The genus Perca was placed by the Swedish naturalist in his section 

 oi Thoracici ; Mitchell, believing that the Morone americana, Perca fla- 

 V e s c e n s and Pomotis maculatus were rather abdominal fishes, considered 

 them to be generically distinct from Perca, and consequently gave to them the 

 generic name of Morone. It is scarcely necessary to state that all the species 

 enumerated have the normal position of the ventrals of Perca, and that there- 

 fore Morone of Mitchell was a mere synonyme of Perca of Linnseus. I have 

 nevertheless preferred to take that name rather than to give a new one. 



Morone americana. Gill, 

 ct Synonymy. 



Perca SchoepfiF, Schrift. der Gesells. Nat. Freund, vol. viii. p. 159. 



Perca americana Gmel., Systema Naturse, vol. i., pars iii., p. 1308. 



Perca Schoepff, Naturforscher, vol. xx., p. 17. 



Perca americana Bloch, Systemse Ichthyologise, Schneid. ed. 



Perca americana Lac, Hist, i^'at. des Poissons, vol. iv. p. 412. 



Morone rufa Mitchell, Report in part on the Fishes of New York, p. 18. 



Bodianus rvfus Mitchell, Trans. Lit. and Phil. Soc. of New York, vol. i. p. 

 420, Jan. 1814. 



Centropomus alhus Raf. Precis des decouvertes Somilogiques, .June, 1814. 

 p. 19. 



Perca mucronata Raf., American Monthly Magazine and Critical Review, vol. 

 ii. p. 205. 



Labrax mucronatus Cuv. and Val. Le petit Bar d'Ameriqtie, Hist. Nat. des 

 Poissons, vol. ii., p. 81, pi. 121. 



Bodianus rvfus Smith, Nat. Hist. Fishes of Mass, p. 274. 



Labrax mucronatus Storer, Report on Ichthyology of Mass., p. 8. 



Perca macronatus (misprint) Sw. Nat. Hist, of Fishes, Amphibians and 

 Reptiles, vol. ii., p. 198. 1839. 



Labrax rvfus Dekay, Nat. Hist, of New York Fishes, p. 9, pi. 3, fig. 7. 



Labrax mucronatus Ayres, Boston Journal Nat. Hist., vol. iv., p. 257. 



Labrax mucronatus Linsley, Catalogue of Fishes of Connecticut. 



Labrax rufus Storer, Synopsis of the Fishes of North America, p. 22 ; ib. in 

 Memoirs of American Acad., new series, vol. ii., p. 274. 1846. 



Labrax rufus Storer, Hist, of the Fishes of Mass., p. 1, ib. in Memoirs of 

 American Acad., n. s., vol. v., p. 57. 



Labrax mucronatus Baird, Report on Fishes of New Jersey Coast, p. 8 ; ib. in 

 Ninth Annual Report of Smith. Inst. p. 322. 1855. 



Labrax americanus Holbrook, Ichthyology of South Carolina, p. 21, pi. 3, 

 fig. 2. 1855. 



Labrax rufus Gill, Annual Report of Smith. Inst., p. 256. 1857. 



Labrax mucronatus Hill, Catalogue of Fish of Jamaica, p. 1. 

 /?. 



Labrax nigricans Dekay, Nat. Hist, of New York Fishes, p. 12, pi. 50, fig. 

 160. 1842. 



[April, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 117 



Lahrax nigricans Storer, Synopsis of the Fishes of North America ; ib. in Me- 

 moirs of American Acad., vol. ii. p. 23. 1846. 



>• 



Morone pallida Mitchell, Report in part on the Fishes of New York, p. 18. 



Bodiamis pallidas Mitchell, Trans. Lit. and Phil. Soc. of New York, vol. i. 

 p. 420. 



Bodiamis pallidus Smith, Nat. Hist, of Fishes of Mass. p. 294. 



Labrax pallidas Dekay, Nat. Hist, of New York, Fishes, p. 11, pi. 1, fig. 2. 

 1842. 



Lahrax pallidus Storer, Synopsis of the Fishes of North America, p. 22 ; ib. 

 in Memoirs of American Acad., vol. ii., p. 22. 



Lahrax pallidus Perley, Report upon the Fishes of the Bay of Fundy, p. 121. 

 1851. 



Lahrax pallidus Perley, Descriptive Catalogue (in part,) of Fishes of New 

 Brunswick and Nova Scotia, p 4 ; ib. in Reports on Sea and River Fisheries 

 of New Brunswick, p. 182. 1852. 



In the above synonymy, it will be observed that several species which have 

 been created as distinct, and so retained by succeeding naturalists, have been 

 merged into one. Although there can scarcely be a doubt of the identity of 

 these nominal species, the synonymy, at the same time, has been divided into 

 three portions, each applying to one of the nominal species as previously 

 accepted. 



The reference of all the variations of the Labrax americanus tyi^e to 

 one species has been only done after a careful study of Dekay's descriptions, 

 and after examination of numerous specimens of the genus. The descriptions 

 of Dekay certainly do not afford any means for distinguishing his species, in 

 the case of Labrax r u f u s and Labrax nigricans, except a very slight 

 difference in the shade of color. The description of the color of the latter 

 species is given by Dekay, as follows : 



" The general hue is deep brownish-black, more intense on the head and 

 upper part of the body. In the older specimens, there is a strong brassy hue 

 throughout ; occasionally dark longitudinal parallel streaks on the upper i>art 

 of the body, pupils black, irides yellow, base of the fins light greenish- yellow, 

 edge of the membrane of the spinous dorsal, black ; upper portion of the 

 membrane of the posterior dorsal fin transparent, and separated from the 

 yellow portion at the base by a tolerably well defined dark band ; membrane 

 of the anal fin dark toward the tips of the rays." 



Let any naturalist take an ordinary specimen of the common white perch, 

 and decide whether the difference of color between that specimen and the 

 Labrax nigricans is sufficient to authorize a separation on that ground ; 

 in all other respects, the description of Dr. Dekay will exactly apply to his 

 Labrax ru f us . 



The distribution of the darker shades of color on the body and fins, is the 

 same in both species ; the proportions are the same, and the difference in the 

 number of rays is not greater than is noticed in the same species. Is it not 

 probable that Dr. Dekay was induced to separate the Labrax nigricans 

 from his other species on account of a supposed difference of station ? The 

 Labrax rufu s is described as being " obtained in brackish streams," while 

 the Labrax nigricans is said to be found in " deep fresh-water ponds in 

 Queen and Suffolk Counties." But the true Labrax rufus (Morone ameri- 

 cana) is found also in streams of fresh water, and in ponds that are now en- 

 tirely disconnected from the salt water, although not far from the sea. As 

 there is therefore no difference in the habitation of the supposed two species, 

 and as no specific distinctions appear to exist from the descriptions of Dr. 

 Dekay, no alternative is left but to consider them identical. 



Mr. William H. Herbert, a popular writer on our fi-hes, entertained ''great 

 doubts " whether the Labrax nigricans was more " than a casual variety of 

 I860.] 




118 ' PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



the Black Bass of the Saint Lawrence, " the "Grystes nigricans of Agassiz. " 

 Such doubts deserve no consideration, as there are none of its being at least 

 the congener of Morone americ ana. 



As to the Labrax pallidus, there is a greater discrepancy in the descrip- 

 tion of it as compared with that of the Labrax r u f u s . It is said that in the 

 former, the opercle has " a single flat spine, and a pointed membrane extend- 

 ing beyond it," while the generic characters given by Cuvier to the genus are 

 retained, one of which is founded upon the presence of "two points on the 

 opercle." The statement that Labrax pallidus has but one spine is pro- 

 bably due to a misapprehension of Dekay. In the Morone americana 

 there is one acute point terminating the opercle, above which is an emargina- 

 tion separating it from a more obtuse or rounded process, which in one case 

 has been regarded as a spine, and in the other has not. It is impossible to 

 believe that two fishes of this genus so nearly resembling each other, should 

 so differ in the developement of the opercular spines. 



Another distinctive character is said to exist in the first ray of the posterior 

 dorsal, which is " nearly as long as the second." Was not this relative differ- 

 ence in the proportions of the rays the result of injury to the tips of the suc- 

 ceeding soft ones ? As a third character, it is mentioned that the body is 

 " much compressed." From the figures of Labrax rufu s and Labrax pal- 

 lidus, it would appear that any difference in height was rather in favor of 

 the former than of the latter. No mention is made in the description, of the 

 color of the fins of Labrax pallidus, but from the figure it would appear 

 that the pattern is nearly the same in that species as in Labrax ruf u s , but 

 the shade is lighter towards the borders of the dorsal and anal. This differ- 

 ence is too trivial to be accepted as specific, and if the above conjectures as to 

 the nature of Dr. Dekay's statements are correct, the Labrax pallidus 

 must be regarded as a mere sjnonyme of Morone americana. 



Morone interrupta Gill. 

 Synonymy . 



Lahrax chrysops Girard. General Report upon the Zoology of the several 

 Pacific Railroad routes. Ichthyology, p. 29. 

 non Roccus chrysops Gill. 



The form of this species scarcely differs from the Morone americana, 

 the chief difference existing in the more gradual declination of the dorsal out- 

 line to the end of the second dorsal fin, and the greater inequality of the an- 

 terior and posterior portions of the caudal peduncle. The greatest height of 

 the body equals three-tenths of the length from the snout to the concave mar- 

 gin of the caudal fin ; of that length, the head firms almost three-tenths, 

 being not much less than the height of the body, and the caudal fin, at its mid- 

 dle rays, equals half of the height of the body. The caudal fin, when expanded, 

 is emarginated and its angles rounded ; the shortest rays equal three-fifths of 

 the length of the longest. 



The dorsal fin commences at a vertical intermediate between the bases of 

 the pectoral and ventral fins, and is of a triangular form, the fourth ray being 

 the largest, and equalling the length of the pectoral fin ; the spines have the 

 same form and arrangement as those of Morone americana. The second 

 dorsal is connected by a membrane as in Morone americana; its spinous 

 or first ray is little more than half the length of the first articulated one, which 

 itself is nearly as long as the fourth dorsal spine ; the fin thence decreases in 

 height towards its last ray, which is shorter than its spinous one. 



The anal fin commences under the fourth or fifth articulated ray of the 

 second dorsal, and about four of its rays are posterior to the termination of 

 that fin ; the first spine is short and robust ; the second at least twice as long 

 as the first, compressed, and very strong ; the third is as long or longer than the 

 secondj but much more slender. The first articulated ray of the anal is 



[April, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELrHIA. 119 



longer than the spines, and about twice as long as the last ; the outline of the 

 fin is slightly emarginated. 



The first ray of the pectoral fin is, as usual, articulated but simple ; the 

 third is longest and branched, and equals the base of the second dorsal. 



The ventrals are about as long as the pectorals ; the length of the spine is 

 equal to two-thirds of that of the first or second branched rays. 



The radial formula is as follows : 



D ix— I, 12 ; A iii, 10 ; C 4, I, 8, 7, I, 2 ; P 3, 14 ; V i, 5. 



The scales are of about the same size as in the Morone americana, the 

 lateral line running through about fifty, besides the smaller ones at the base 

 of the caudal fin ; at the region of its greatest height, there are about nineteen 

 rows, of which about seven are above the lateral line and eleven beneath. The 

 relative proportions on the different parts of the body are almost nearly the 

 same as in that species, the chief diflerence existing on the front of the back, 

 where the exposed portions of the disc are higher and narrower than in M. 

 americana. On the cheeks from the orbit to the angles, there are about 

 seven oblique rows. 



The specimens preserved in spirits have a bright brazen color, tinged on the 

 back with olivaceous. Along the sides are seven very distinct longitudinal 

 black bands, through the foiarth of which the lateral line runs for its entire 

 length. The continuity of the bands below the lateral line is interrupted at 

 the posterior half of their length, and they there alternate with their anterior 

 parts. 



The dorsal fins are tinged with purple, and the margin of the spinous one is 

 dark. The anal is of a darker purple towards its anterior angle. The caudal, 

 especially posteriorly and at its middle, is purple. The rays of the pectoral 

 and ventral fins are yellowish, while the membrane of the former is hyaline, 

 and of the latter sometimes miniitely dotted. 



This species, as will be observed by reference to the synonymy, has been 

 described by Dr. Charles Girard, under the name of Labrax chrysops Grd. 

 (Perca or Lepibema chrysops Raf.), to which is also referred as a syno- 

 nyme, the Labrax multilineatus of Cuvier and Valenciennes, Kirtland, 

 Dekay and Storer. From tliat species, it is very distinct, and even belongs to 

 a different genus. Cuvier described the ground color as a greenish-gray 

 on the back and silvery on the belly. This is not the color of Morone inter- 

 rupta, and that species must be therefore distinct from Labrax multi- 

 lineatus, nor can it be the Perca chrysops of Rafinesque, which is 

 said to be " silvery with five longitudinal brownish stripes on each side," and 

 have the "head brown above." This description, though erroneous in most 

 respects, is as accurate as Rafinesque's generally are, and agrees sufficiently 

 well with Kirtland's Labrax multilineatus, which is doubtless identical 

 with the Cuvieran species. Even such an observer as Rafinesque would have 

 noticed the deep brazen hue of Morone interrupta, and would not have 

 overlooked two of the seven very distinct black bands that run along the sides. 



Dr. Girard has stated that there are but six branchiostegal rays in his species, 

 but I am able to say, from an examination of the specimens used by Dr. Girard 

 himself, for description, that it agrees with all allied species, in having the 

 normal number of seven, and which are developed as in Morone americana. 



There are preserved in the Museum of the Smithsonian Institution, three 

 specimens of the Morone interrupta, one of which was obtained by 

 Lieutenant Couch, at New Orleans, and two larger ones were found at St. Louis, 

 Missouri, by Dr. George Engelman. The small specimen from New Orleans 

 differs from the two Missouri specimens by the larger second spine of the anal 

 fin, but in every other respect they are similar. 



I860.] 




120 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Monograph of the Philypni. 

 BY THEO. GILL. 



I. In the year 1837, M. Valenciennes has for the first time separated from 

 the genus Eleotris of Gronovius, a fish which had been previously referred by 

 Schneider, Lacepede and by Cuvier, to genera to which it did not naturally 

 belong. 



This species was first named Platycephalus dormitator, in Schneider's 

 posthumous edition of the " Systema Ichthyologiae " of Bloch, from the figure 

 and manuscript description of the Father Plumier. 



Shortly after, M. Lacepede, upon the same documents, established his 

 Gobiomore d o r m e u r . The genus to which it was referred was distinguished 

 by M. Lacepede from the genus Gobiiis, by the separation of the ventral fins. 

 The group was thus established on the same characters as those by which 

 Cuvier afterwards separated the species under the Gronovian name of Eleotris, 

 but the homogeneousness of the group was destroyed by the introduction of 

 species which had no affinity to the Eleotroids. 



Subsequently, Cuvier, in his " Regne Animal," revised the characters of 

 the genus Eleotris, and introduced among true species of the genus, the Eleo- 

 tris dormitatrix, which is the same as the above mentioned species of 

 Bloch and of Lacepede. 



No additional information was communicated respecting this species until 

 the year 1837. At that time, M. de Valenciennes, in his monograph of the 

 Gobioids contained in the twelfth volume of the " Histoire Naturelle des Pois- 

 sons," revised the characters of the genus Eleotris, and in addition to those 

 by which Cuvier distinguished it, referred to the presence of teeth only on the 

 jaws. From the genus, as thus constituted, he has separated the Platycepha- 

 lus dormitator of Schneider, or the Eleotris dormitatrix of Cuvier, 

 on account of the presence of teeth on the front of the vomer. Valenciennes 

 has taken the species as the type of a new genus, which he has called Philyp- 

 nus, and the presence of vomerine teeth is the only character by which he 

 distinguishes it from his Eleotris; he has called the species Philypnus dor- 

 mitator, and has given an extended description of it. He had examined 

 specimens from the islands of Martinique and Porto Rico, and has signalized its 

 presence in Saint Domingo. The species thus described is the only one which 

 he has referred to the genus. 



But in the same volume as that in which he has introduced the genus Phi- 

 lijpnus, Valenciennes has placed in the genus Gobius, a Chinese fish which 

 Lacepede has described under the name of Bostryche c h i n o i s . This fish, 

 ,as will afterwards be shown, is nearly allied to the species of the genus Phi- 

 ypnus. 



XL The Bostryche c h i n o i s or Bostrychus sinensis, was first intro- 

 duced into Systematic Nomenclature by Lacepede, who founded the species 

 only on a Chinese drawing. The genus Bostrychus was formed for its recep- 

 tion, and was characterized by its " elongated and serpentiform body, two 

 dorsal fins, the second of which is separated from the caudal fin, two barbels 

 at the upper jaw, and the eyes quite large and without a lid." As a second 

 species of the genus so defined, Lacepede has placed a species which was 

 ascertained by Valenciennes to be a species of Ophicephalus, a genus belonging 

 to an entirely different family from the Bostrychus sinensis, and which 

 possesses a single long continuous dorsal. Notwithstanding this rather im- 

 portant variation from Bostrychus sinensis, Lacepede chiefly distinguishes 

 his second species by a difference of color, the former being described as brown, 

 and the latter as spotted with green ; from the latter character the name of 

 B. maculatus was conferred on it. The B. maculatus, like the B. 

 sinensis, was only known from a Chinese drawing. As Valenciennes has 



[April, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 121 



already remarked, it should properly have been referred by Lacepede to his 

 genus Bostrychoides, which was distinguished from his Bostrychus by the pre- 

 sence of ouly one dorsal fin. 



In 180(5, M. Dumeril published his "Zoologie Analytique, ou Methode 

 Naturelle de Classification des Animaux." In the ichthyological portion of 

 the volume, the genera of Lacepede are adopted, but the name of Bostrychnsis 

 abolished on account of its previous application by Geoffrey to a genus of 

 coleopterous insects, and that of Bostrichtes or Bostrichthys is substituted in its 

 stead. The characters given to the genus are the same as those of Lacepede. 



In 1815, Rafinesque published his " Analyse de la Nature, ou Tableau de 

 I'Univeri." In this volume there is first introduced into the seventh family 

 of the system (^Petalomia,) and into the first sub-family (Cepolidia) the Bos- 

 trychus of Lacepede under the name of Bostrictis, and the Bostrychoides under 

 the name of Pte.rops, and these are interposed between Cepola and Trachypte- 

 rus on the one hand, and on the other Tasica Raf., and Lepodopns, while Gym- 

 netrus and a number of genera founded on more or less perfect specimens of 

 Trachypteriis are placed in a second family called Gymnetria. Again the Bos- 

 trychi and Bostrtjchoides are introduced under the new name of Ictiopogon for 

 Bostrychw, and Pterops for Bostrychoides into a t\tenty-third family called Pan- 

 topteria, and into athird sub-family (Anguillinia). The family and sub- families- 

 contain a singular and most unnatural reunion of the most widely distinct 

 types ; apodal Scombroids and Xiphioids are mingled with apodal Blennoids 

 and Comephorus and Mastacemhelus Gron, Ammodytes L., Ophidium L., and An- 

 guilla are thrown together in the same family. Rafinesque doubtless derived 

 the idea of placing the last named genera in the family of " Pantopteria " or 

 apodal fishes from a remark of Lacepede, who saw no ventrals represented 

 in the figures of his Bostrychi, and therefore suggested that none might exist. 



Thus, on the authority of the figure of a Chinese painter, unacquainted with 

 Ichthyology, three distinct generic names, besides orthographical modifications 

 of two of them, had been formed for a fish which no naturalist had ever seen. 

 Without criticism and without judgment, it had been referred to the systems 

 of the various authors, and one of them had placed it in two distinct orders in 

 the same work. After the last of these works, the problematical genus was 

 allowed to rest, and no naturalist has since paid attention to it. 



The first critical ichthyologist who examined the grounds on which the 

 species was founded, was M. Valenciennes. That excellent naturalist, like 

 his predecessors, only knew the species by the Chinese painting. Judging 

 from this alone, he recognized its affinity to the Gobioids, and expressed the 

 belief, from its form, that it was certainly a Gobius, and therefore called it 

 Gobius sinensis, but was careful to observe that he could neither see the 

 ventral fins, nor count the rays of the others. 



The first ichthyologist by whom the species was seen and described from 

 nature was Sir John Richardson. That gentlemen, in the Ichthyology of the 

 Voyage of H. M. S. the Sulphur, gave a description of it, referring it, as a new 

 species, to the genus Philypnus, under the name of P. ocellicauda. He after- 

 wards, in the same work, published his belief of its identity with the Bostry- 

 chus sinensis of Lacepede, and adopting the specific name of that author, 

 called it Philypniis sinensis. In the same part, he has given a very good 

 figure of the species. 



Subsequentl)' , Dr. Bleeker, in his monograph of the Gobioids and Blennoids 

 of the Sundamulluccan Archipelago, described a fish, which he called Philyp- 

 nus ophicephalus, at the same time doubtfully placing as a synonyme, 

 the Philypnuj ocellicauda of Richardson. He afterwards appeared to have 

 become satisfied of the identity of the two species, and adopting the older name 

 of Richardson, quoted his own as a synonyme. 



Although this species is nearly allied to the true Philypni, it differs too much 

 from those species to be a natural member of the same genus. It has therefore 



I860.] 




122 rROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



been now placed in a separate one, for which the name of Bostrichthys is 

 retained. The two genera, Philypnus and Bostrichthys, form a distinct group, 

 characterized chiefly by the presence of vomerine teeth. To this group, the 

 name of Philypni may be given : ultimately it may be found to be a separate 

 sub-family. 



Philypni Gill. 



The form of the body is similar to that of the typical Eleotroids, anteriorly 

 subcylindrical, becoming compressed, and slightly decreasing in height towards 

 the caudal fin. 



The head is elongated and depressed above, the mouth ample, the teeth 

 villiform on both the jaws and the front of the vomer. 



The branchial apertures are more or less extended forwards, but separated 

 from each other by an isthmus. 



There are six branchiostegal rays, the four exterior of which are well devel- 

 oped, curved and compressed, the two internal are small and slender. 



The dorsal fins are separated by a considerable interval ; the ventrals ap- 

 proximated, but entirely disconnected. 



The above characters apply to the only two known genera. Subsequent 

 discoveries may necessitate their revision. Tlie group as thus constituted, 

 differs from the Eleotroids by the presence of vomerine teeth, and the distance 

 of the dorsal fins from each other. If these characters are persistent, it would 

 seem proper to retain the group as a distinct sub-family. 



The only known genera are Philypnus Val., and Bostrichthys. Philypnus is 

 an American form, and Bostrichthys an Asiatic form. The characters of these 

 wUl be now given : 



Philtpxus Val. 

 Synonymy. 

 Philypnus Val., Hist. Nat. des Poissons, vol. xii. p. 255, 1837. 

 Platycephalus sp. Bl. Schneid., Systema Icthyologiie, 1801. 

 Gobiomorus sp. Lac, Hist. Nat. des Poissons. 

 Eleotris sp. Cuv., Regne Animal, ed. ii. 



Head elongated, subconical in profile, depressed above ; mouth large, lower 

 jaw projecting beyond the upper ; nostrils with raised margins, between the 

 eyes and upper jaw ; the distance between each nearly equal to that of the 

 anterior nostrils from the upper jaw, and of the posterior from the eyes. 

 Branchial apertures extending anteriorly nearly to the angles of the mouth 

 and separated from each other by a very narrow isthmus. Scales ctenoid, 

 moderate, extending on the forehead, opercula and cheeks ; pectinations of 

 those on the forehead and cheeks freqiiently obsolete. 



All of the scales on the body of the species of Philypnus are more or less 

 angulated posteriorly, and have the nucleus near the angle ; from this angle 

 radiating grooves and ridges diverge towards the anterior margin of the scales, 

 and are crossed by concentric striae, which terminate at the posterior borders in 

 pectinations that are often obsolete ; in other scales, especially on the fore- 

 head, the concentric strise surround a subcentral nucleus, and give to the 

 scales a pseudocycloid appearance. In young individuals the scales are much 

 more distinctly pectinated than in the adnlt. 



Philypnus dormitator Val. 

 Synonymy. 

 Cephalus sen asellus palustris, vulgo le dormeur, Plummer, MSS. fide Val. 

 Platycephalus dormitator Bloch, Systemse Ichthyologiae, ed. Schneid. 

 Gobiomore dormeur Lacepede, Hist. Nat. des Poissons, vol. ii. p. 599. 

 Gobiomore dormeur Descourtilz, Voyages d'un Naturaliste. 



[April, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 123 



Eleotris dormitatrix Cuv., Regne Animal, vol. ii. 



Eleotris dormitatrix Gueriu, Iconographie du Regne Animal. 



Philypnus dormitator Val., Hist. Nat. des Poissons, vol. xii. p. 25.5. 



Philypnus dormitator Storer, Synopsis Fishes of North. America, ib. in Me- 

 moirs of American Acad., vol. ii. 



Philypnus dormitator Girard, United States and Mexican Boundary Survey, 

 Icthyology, p. 29, pi. xii. fig. 13. 



This species has been very fully described by Valenciennes. He had ex- 

 amined specimens from Porto Rico, St. Domingo and Martinique. It has also 

 been found at Mexico. 



Dr. Girard has given a figure of a very small species of this genus under the 

 name of Philypnus dormitator. It is very probable the young of that 

 species, but as the only specimen in the Museum is one of fifteen inches in 

 length, obtained by the author at the junction of the Arouca and Caroni rivers, 

 in the island of Trinidad, there is no means of comparison. The specimen 

 described by Dr. Girard has very large eyes, and other characters of an ex- 

 tremely young fish. It was obtained at the mouth of the Rio Grande by Mr. 

 John H. Clarke, the Naturalist of the " United States and Mexican Boundary 

 Survey," and is preserved in the Smithsonian Museum. 



Philypnus lateralis Gill. 



In general outline of form, this species has considerable resemblance to the 

 Philypnus dormitator. The dorsal outline ascends in almost a straight 

 line from the snout to the front of the dorsal fin, the chief variation existing 

 between the eyes, where there is a slight depression. The back under the 

 first dorsal is straight ; at the second, it declines very little and in almost a 

 straight line to the base of the caudal fin. The abdominal outhne from the 

 ventrals to the caudal fin converges in nearly the same proportion as the dor- 

 sal. The greatest height of the body, at the first dorsal ray, is equal to about 

 one-fifth of the total length, inclusive of the head and caudal fin ; the least 

 height at the base of the caudal is half of the greatest. 



The head, in profile, is conical or elongated triangular ; it forms three-tenths 

 of the total length. Its dorsal and inferior surfaces regularly converge towards 

 the tip of the lower jaw, and the declension of the former is about twice as 

 great as the ascension of the latter. The dorsal surface over the operculum 

 is rounded, and the degree of convexity becomes less towards the eyes, be- 

 tween which it is flat. The breadth at the operculum equals about half the 

 length of the head, and under the eyes it is between one-fourth and one-fifth 

 less. The interocular space is somewhat less than half of the breadth at the 

 opercula. The outlines of the jaws are semi-elliptical. 



The eyes are longitudinally oval, and are at the thii-d sixth of the head's 

 length. 



The preoperculum in its declination recedes considerably backwards, and 

 is thence broadly curved forwards. The distance from the orbit to the pre- 

 opercular angle, equals the distance from the posterior border of the orbit to 

 its horizon behind the intermasillaries. The operculum declines obliquely 

 downwards from its membranous point, and its greatest le-ngth, in an oblique 

 . direction, slightly surpasses the interval between the orbit and the angle of 

 the preoperculum. The oculo-humeral groove is shallow and scarcely ascend- 

 ing. 



The mouth is oblique and large, the maxillaries extending backwards to 

 the vertical of the eyes. 



The teeth on the jaws do not much differ from those of the Philypnus dor- 

 mitator. The vomerine patch is narrowed towards its ends, and its teeth 

 are much smaller than those of the jaws, especially anteriorly. 



The scales on the sides of the body are of an oblong form and hexagonal 

 outline, with the nucleus at the posterior angle and with about eight radiating 

 I860.] 




124 PROCEEDINGS OE THE ACADEMY OP 



ridges, some of which are bifurcate ; the ridges are separated into two portions 

 by the median line. The free margin is delicately pectinated. The scales are 

 of moderate size, there being about fifty -four in a row behind the pectoral fins. 

 Before the dorsal fin, and especially on the forehead, the nucleus is subcentral, 

 and with numerous radiating grooves sometimes advancing even to the lateral 

 margins. On the operculum they are often higher than wide, with the nu- 

 cleus subterminal to subcentral, with the posterior margin angulated and pec- 

 tiniform ; on the preoperculum they are smaller and almost square, with more 

 or less subcentral nuclei, and with the pectinations generally obsolete. 



The first dorsal fin commences some distance behind the vertical of the bases 

 of the pectorals, and has the arrangement of the rays normal in the G o b i uiE 

 and Eleotrinae. The rays in length have the following relation to each 

 other ; 2, 3, 1, 4. The second dorsal is oblong and commences behind the ver- 

 tical of the anus. 



The caudal fin is posterioi-ly rounded, and its longest rays form a fifth of the 

 length of the fish. 



The pectorals are rounded and equal in length to the interval between the 

 orbit and the margin of the operculum. The ventrals are also rounded, and 

 the third and fourth branched rays are the longest. 



The radial formula is as follows : — 

 1 1 



D vi— I, 8 — ; A I, 1, 8 — ; C 5, 6, 5, 5 ; P 2, 13 ; V I, 5. 

 1 1 



The color is dark purplish brown, lighter on the abdomen. Along the sides 

 a black band runs from behind the upper part of the pectoral to the base of 

 the caudal fin, dividing about nine vertical light bands, which project a little 

 above and below the band. At the base of the caudal, the lateral band some- 

 what enlarges, and is sometimes partly surrounded by a light margin. The 

 vertical and ventral fins are sometimes immaculate, but generally spotted 

 with white and black. The pectorals have a black spot at the upper axilla, 

 and a blackish basal band, bordered on each side, by whitish. The head is 

 of the color of the back, with vertical dark bar from the eye to the angle of 

 the jaw, another from the inferior corner of the eye to the extremity of the 

 operculum, and another horizontal one from the orbit to the upper jaw. 



This species was obtained in considerable numbers by Mr. John Xantus, of 

 the United States Coast Survey, at Cape St. Lucas, Lower California. It adds 

 another proof of the similarity of the Fauna of the Gulf of California to that of 

 the West Indies. 



The specimens collected by Mr. Xantus are in the Museum of the Smith- 

 sonian Institution, and are numbered in the catalogue of the lohthyological 

 collection from number 2435 to 2442. 



This species differs from its West Indian congener chiefly in its proportions, 

 the smaller vomerine band of teeth and in color. 



BosTBiCHTHYS (Dum.) Gill. 

 Sijnonymy . 

 Bostnjchus \ ^^c^Pede, Hist. Nat. des Poissons, vol. iii. p. 141. 

 BlltrTchtkys I ^^™-' Zoo^ogie Analytique, &c., p. 120, 1806. 



Ictfopogon \ ^^^'' ^^^^^^6 de la Nature, &c., 1815. 

 Philypnus sp. Rich. 



Head elongated subcorneal in profile, oblong and depressed above. Nostrils 

 distant : the anterior elongated-tubular, and immediately behind the maxil- 



[April, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 125 



laries ; the posterior subtubular and immediately in front of the antero- 

 superior border of the eye. Branchial apertures extending forwards consider- 

 ably beyond the posterior margins of the preopercles, and separated from each 

 other by a wide isthmus. Scales cycloid, small, especially anteriorly, and 

 extending on the opercula, cheeks and forehead. 



The name of Bostrychus, which was applied to this genus by Lacepede, had 

 been previously used by G-eoflFrey, who, in the year 1764, applied the name, 

 incorrectly spelled Bostrichus, to a genus of coleopterous insects. The name 

 applied to that group has been universally adopted by Entomologists, and the 

 name of Bostrychus, as applied to the piscine genus, must be replaced by 

 another. The name of Bostrichthys was proposed as a substitute by Mr. Du- 

 meril, and this is accepted. 



It would be questionable to some whether a genus "founded on the evidence 

 that Bostrychus was by Lacepede, and founded, at the same time, on errone- 

 ous ideas, should be adopted. Bleeker has adopted Richardson's first specific 

 name, and on the same principle, the generic name of Lacepede would also 

 have been probably ignored by him. The same objections that exist against 

 Lacepede 's name would, of course, militate against the adoption of those of 

 Dumeril and Rafinesque, which were only intended by their authors to super- 

 sede his. Believing, however, that the laws of priority are imperative, and 

 require the adoption of the first given name, when the object to which it was 

 given can be identified, and unless entirely founded on false characters, the 

 name of Bostrichthys is now accepted. Against the name, however, there exist 

 the objections of an erroneous formation, and of a reference to a false charac- 

 ter. The name, in accordance with the composition, should be written Bos- 

 trychichthys, but the erroneous name is more euphonius than the cori-ect one. 

 The name itself would imply the presence of cirrhi or barbels, but none exist ; 

 the objects that were taken for such by Lacepede are the prolonged nasal 

 tubes. These objections do not appear to be of sufficient weight to authorize 

 a change of name. 



The zoological characters by which Bostrichthys is distinguished from Philyp- 

 nus are found chiefly in the difference of tlie extent of the branchial apertures, 

 the cycloid structure of the scales, the distant nasal apertures, and the tubu- 

 lar form of the anterior ones. The smaller size of the scales, especially on the 

 anterior portion of the back, where they are imbedded in the skin, perhaps 

 offers another distinguishing character of Bostrichthys. 



Bostrichthys sinensis Gill. 

 Synonymy, 



Bostryche chinois ) Lacepede, Hist. Nat. des Poissons, vol. iii. p. 141. 

 Bostrychus sinensis ) 7 x- 



Le Gobie chinois)^^^, jjj^^^ ^^.i.d.^^ Poissons, voL xii. p. 94. 



Gobi us sinensis ) ' 



Philypnus ocelUcauda Rich., Voyage of the Sulphur, Zoology, p. 59. 



Phily/mus sinensis Rich., loc. cit., p. 149, pi. 56, fig. 15, 16. 



Philypnus sinensis Rich., Fifteenth Annual Report of the British Association 

 A. S., p. 210. 



Philypnus ophicephalus Blkr., Verhandelingen v. Batav. Genootschap, vol. 

 xxii., Blennoiden en Gobio'iden, p. 20. 



Philypnus ocelUcauda Blkr., Verhandelingen v. Batav. Genootschap, vol. 

 xxvi., Index sp. Piscium, p. 10. 



There can scarcely be a doubt that this is the Bostrychus s i n e n s i s of Lace- 

 pede, as there is no other fish of the Chinese waters known which has any 

 thing like "two barbels at the upper jaw," and an ocellus near the dorsal 

 region of the peduncle. The first specific name, P. ocelUcauda, which has 



I860.] 




126 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



beeu proposed by Ricliardsou, and a,dopted by Bleeker, must therefore be re- 

 linquished for the prior one of Lacepede. 



As this species has been fully described by Richardson and Bleeker, and 

 also figured by the former, no further description is necessary, this being the 

 only known species of the genus. 



Specimens have been obtained by Dr. William Stimpson, the Naturalist of 

 the North Pacific Exploring Expedition, under Commodore Rodgers, at the 

 market of Hong Kong, China. 



Notice of Geological Discoveries, made by Capt. J. H. Simpson, Topographical 

 Engineers, TJ. S. Army, in his recent Explorations across the Continent. 



Washington City, April ^th, 1860. 

 Anticipatory of discoveries of a geological character which might be made 

 and published of date subsequent to those of my Explorations, in 1858 and '59, 

 across the Continent, with the sanction of the Hon. John B. Floyd, Secretary of 

 War, under whose authority the Explorations were made, I present in advance 

 of my final and detailed official report, the following communication from 

 Messrs. F. B. Meek and H. Eogelmann, in reference to the fossil remains which 

 they found, and the geological epochs to which they point. As a large portion 

 relates to a region of country, The Great Basin, — so called by Fremont — lying 

 between the Wahsatch range of mountains on its east, and the Sierra Nevada on 

 its west, which never before was traversed by a white man, not even by a 

 trapper, so far as is known, the publication of this paper cannot be unacceptable 

 to the scientific world, and I therefore take pleasure in submitting it to be read 

 before the Academy. 



J. H. Simpson', 

 Capt. Top. Engineers, U. S. Army. 



Smithsonian Institution, | 

 Washington, D. C, April 2d, 1860. )" 

 Capt. .T. H. Simpson, Topographical Engineers, U. S. Army : 



Dear Sir, — In accordance with your instructions we give below a brief state- 

 ment of some of the conclusions arrived at from a hasty examination of the 

 fossils collected during your late explorations in Utah. Although the time 

 yet devoted to the study of these specimens is not sufficient to enable us to 

 enter into details, enough has been determined to warrant the conclusion that 

 they are of considerable interest, and establish the existence there of geological 

 formations not hitherto known at such remote western localities. 



Asa more extended sketch of the general geology of the country, including a 

 full account of the igneous and metamorphic rocks, together with figures and 

 descriptions of the new organic remains, are to appear in your final report, it is 

 unnecessary for us to do more here than to give merely some of the leading 

 facts dptermined from the fossils collected from the various formations exposed 

 along the line of survey. In doing this it will be most convenient to speak of 

 the formations in the order of their succession in point of time, beginning with 

 the most ancient, instead of referring to them in the order in which they were 

 observed in traversing the country. 



Devonian Rocks. 



The oldest deposits from which fossils in a condition to be determined were 

 collected^ occur in the vicinity of the Humboldt Mountains, at the follow- 

 ing points, viz.: Long. ll-i°45^ west, Lat. 39° 45^ north,— Long. 115° 58'' west. 

 Lat. 39^ 33' north, and Long. 115° 36' west, Lat. 39° 30' north. At the first 

 of these localities fragments of Trilohitcs belonging as near as can be deter- 

 mined to the genera Calymene, Ilomalonotus and Proetus, were collected from a 

 hard, bluish limestone. The specimens are too imperfect to warrant a posi- 



[April 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 127 



tive opinion wbether they are Upper Silurian or Devonian forms, though 

 they evidently belong to one or ihe other of these epochs, and closely resem- 

 ble Hamilton Group forms. 



At the other localities mentioned above, a group of fossils of decided Devo- 

 nian type were found. They consist of Atrypa reticularis, A. aspera, or a 

 closely allied species, a small Froductus, and three new species of Spirifer. The 

 first of these species has so great a vertical range, that taken alone, it would 

 only indicate that the rock from which it was obtained holds a position some- 

 where between the Upper Silurian and the middle or higher portions of the 

 Devonian. A. aspera is a common Devonian fossil, but is also said to occur in 

 the upper Silurian of the old world while the genus Froductus is now generally 

 regarded as not dating farther back than the Devonian.* These facts taken in 

 connection with the close analogy of the small Froductus mentioned above, and 

 the associated S^!>(/ers, to forms characterizing the Hamilton Group of the New 

 York Devonian series, leave little room to doubt that the rock in which these 

 fossils were found is of Devonian age, and that it most probably belongs to about 

 the horizon of the Hamilton Group. 



The discovery of these fossils at this distant locality cannot fail to be 

 regarded as an interesting addition to our knowledge of the geology of the 

 great West, especially when it is borne in mind that they were obtained near 

 twelve hundred miles farther westward than such forms, so far as is known to 

 us, have hitherto been found in. situ, within the limits of the territory of the 

 United States. f 



Cakboniferous Rocks. 



Following up the sequence of the formations, we pass eastward to the vicin- 

 ity of Camp Floyd, which is in Long. 112° 8' west, Lat. 40° 13' north. Here 

 on the west side of Lake Utah, extensive deposits of a dark, very hard, silicious 

 limestone of Carboniferous age occur. The fossils collected from these beds 

 here, and for a long distance west of this, are in so bad a state of preservation 

 that the specific characters ofraostof them are much obscured. It is believed, 

 however, that we have from this rock Orthis Micheii»i, and 0. umbraculum, 

 though they may be only allied representative species. There are also along 

 with these a species of Art/iyris or 'ferebratula, one or two of Spirifer, and the 

 spiral axis of an Archimedes,^ with fragments of other Polyzoa and Corals. 

 As the genus, or subgenus Archimedes, has not yet, so far as we know, been found 

 as high in the Carboniferous system as the Coal Measures, and there are ap- 

 parently no decided Coal Measure forms in the collections from this rock, we 

 are inclined to regard it as belonging to the Lower Carboniferous series. 



Carboniferous formations also extend westward from Camp Floyd to the 



* Some two or three species were formerly supposed to occur in the Upper Silurian 

 rocks of the Old World, but the correctness of this conclusion is questioned by must of 

 the besi English and Continental auihorities. 



tA few fossils belonging to the genera Spirifer, Conocardium, &c., collected on a 

 former expedition by one of the writers (H. K.) near Medicine Bow Butte, Long. 106'' 30' 

 west, Lat. 4P 38' north, were regarded by Dr. Shumard as probably of Devonian age, 

 though none of the species were positively identified with Devoni.in forms, and thej- 

 were obtained from an erratic mass, the e.xact original position of ahich is unknown. 



It is also stated in Capt. Stansbury's report that at a locality three or four days' march 

 eyond Fort Lar.imie, an outcrop from which some imperfect specimens of gasteropoda 

 and a shell resembling a Monolis were obtained, is probably of Devonian age. The expo- 

 sure here alluded to, however, is now known to be composed of Jurassic and proba- 

 bly Triassic rocks. The genus Monotis is unknown below the upper Coal Measures, in 

 this country, and the Permian in the Old World, though it ranges above on both sides of 

 the Atlantic. 



tWe believe this lo be the first specimen of this curious fossil yet found in the region of 

 the Rocky Mountaine. 



I860.] 




128 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Devonian localities alluded to above, interrupted at places by outbursts of ig- 

 neous rocks. It is likewise probable there may be in this interval both Devo- 

 nian and Silurian strata, but the collections yet obtained are not sufficient to 

 enable us to speak with confidence on this point. 



Between Long. 115° and 115° 30', Lat. 40" 10' and Lat. 39° 20', thereis a se- 

 ries of hills or mountains, trending nearly north and south, to unknown distances 

 beyond the field of these explorations, which seem to be mainly made up of 

 lio-ht yellowish eray, more or less argillaceous, and arenaceous subcrystalline 

 limestones, and slates. This formation belongs to the Carboniferous system, 

 but is more recent than the dark colored limestone at Camp Floyd. The 

 fossils collected from it are for the most part new, and consist of three species 

 of Froduetus, one of which resembles F. Rogersi, Norwood and Pratten, two 

 new species of Spirifer, and another apparently identical with S. cameratus, but 

 more robust, and having stronger costae than is common in that species. Along 

 with these there are also specimens of Athyris subiilita, and a new species of 

 Ghonetes, closely allied to C. Verneuiliana, Norwood and Pratten, from the Western 

 Coal Measures." From the affinities of this group of fossils, we have little hesita- 

 tion in referring this rock to the Upper Carboniferous series, though in its 

 lithological characters it is entirely unlike strata of that age in the Middle and 

 Western States. 



There were also seen at a few places near here, some outcrops of dark grayish 

 colored limestones, containing Froduetus, Spirifer, &c. These were not ob- 

 served in contact with the light colored beds mentioned above, but under 

 circumstances indicating that they hold a lower position, from which it is 

 inferred they are probably of lower carboniferous age. 



The occurrence here, as far west as Long. 115°, of extensive Carboniferous 

 formations, is another interesting fact in the geology of this distant region not 

 known previous to these explorations, — no rocks of this age being represented 

 on any of the most recent and carefully compiled geological maps, from near 

 Camp Floyd and the Salt Lake to the Pacific Ocean. 



Deposits, probably of the age of the Coal Measures and of great thickness, 

 were also observed in the Wahsalch Mountains east of Lake Utah, along Tim- 

 panogos Caiion. The strata here, however, consist mainly of dark colored and 

 bluish impure limestones, slates, and argillaceous shales, the latter containing 

 at a few places fragments of carbonaceous matter, — the whole being upheaved 

 and greatly distorted, apparently by violent forces acting from beneath. The 

 fossils collected from these beds all differ specifically from those found in the 

 lio-ht colored limestone at the localities near Long. 115° west, and we have no 

 m'eans of determining which of these is the older rock. The specimens from 

 the dark colored beds in the Canon, consist of one new or undetermined Spirifer, 

 two of Froduetus, and two of Athyris, together with fragments of a small 

 Lepidodendron. 



The indications of Coal of true Carboniferous date, seem to be more favorable 

 here than at any other point examined along the route explored, though no beds 

 of it were seen. Good coal has, however, been found in the same mountain 

 range 140 miles south of this, but as yet little is positively known in regard to 

 its age. 



Several miles above this on Timpanogos River, and at a higher geological 

 horizon, outcrops of light colored, and yellowish sandstones and silicious lime- 

 stones with red shales, were seen. At one place in this formation a few speci- 

 mens of very hard, light gray, highly silicious rock were obtained, containing 

 great numbers of small bivalves, in a broken condition. As near as could be 

 determined these are very much like BakevelUas, while another of these speci- 

 mens contains a fragment resembling closely a Fhyllipora. Both these fossils 

 are quite similar to Permian forms, but it would be unsafe without other evi- 

 dence to refer the rock to that epoch. 



[April, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 129 



Triassic Rocks. 



At several localities east of Lake Utah, near the tributaries of Uintah River, 

 extensive deposits of fine red, more or less arenaceous material were seen oc- 

 cupying considerable areas, and from the accounts of various explorers, this 

 formation is greatly developed along the Wahsatch Mountains south of Lake 

 Utah. At these latter localities we have accounts of numerous beds of gypsum, 

 and deposits of rock salt. These beds where seen near Uintah River are not 

 known to contain gypsum or salt, but from the occurrence of gypsum in similar 

 formations a little farther south, and their proximity and relations to Jurassic 

 strata to be mentioned hereafter, there is little room for doubting that they 

 are the same red gypsum-bearing deposit seen by Dr. Hayden beneath Jurassic 

 rocks at the Black Hills. (See paper by Meek & Hayden, Proceed. Acad. Nat. 

 Sci., Phil'a, March, 1858, p. 44.) 



From the statement of Mr. Marcon, Dr. George Shumard, Mr. Blake, and 

 more recently of Dr. J. S. Newberry, it is evident this formation is developed on 

 a grand scale in New Mexico. The only organic remains yet found in it, so far 

 as we know, were some plants (Zamites, Pterophyllum, tj'c.) and Saurian bones, 

 discovered by Dr. Newberry during his important investigations in the South- 

 West, as geologist of the exploring expeditions under the command of Lieut. 

 Ives, in 1858, and Capt. M'Comb, Top. Engrs., U. S. Army, in 1859. These 

 fossils led Dr. N. to refer this series to the New Red or Triassic epoch,* which 

 view was also maintained by Mr. Marcon, though the latter gentleman seems 

 not to have had a very clear idea of its limits, since he included other rocks 

 in the Trias as defined by him. 



This formation is well exposed on the North Platte at Red Butte, above Fort 

 Laramie, where it also contains several beds of gypsum, and again on La- 

 Bonte Creek, nearer Fort Laramie. It likewise occurs on Smoky Hill River, 

 and at other localities in Kansas, where it has been referred (along with some 

 lower Cretaceous rocks, and possibly some Jurassic strata) to the Trias, by Mr. 

 F. Hawn. All the facts that have been accumulating for some lime past, seem 

 to render it more than probable that this series really represents the Trias of 

 the Old World. 



Jurassic Rocks. 



At the localities already mentioned where the red beds were seen near 

 Duchesne River, a tributary of Uintah River, heavy deposits were also observed 

 of grayish and whitish calcareous rock, and light, red and whitish sandstones 

 and shales. Some portions of the same formation were also met with further 

 to the north-west on the east branch of Weber River. At both of these places 

 in the calcareous beds, fragments of Pecten, Ostrea and portions of the columns of 

 Fentacrinus, undistinguishable from those of the Jurassic species P. asteriscus. 

 Meek and Hayden, were found. From the presence of these fossils, taken together 

 with all the other circumstances, we have scarcely room to doubt that these 

 deposits are of Jurassic age. 



Well marked Jurassic strata occur at Red Buttes, on the North Platte, — at 

 the same locality already referred to in speaking of the red gypsum bearing 

 rocks. They were not seen in direct contact with the gypsum formations, but 

 under circumstances showing that they must hold a higher stratigraphical 

 position. Here they consist of sandstones, shales and slates, more or less lam- 

 inated calcareous sandstones, and gritty limestones of various colors, altogether 

 of considerable thickness. Some of the lower of these beds are quite fossilifer- 

 ous. The specimens collected consist of Penlacrinus asteriscus, Meek and Hayden. 

 a Gryphcea probably identical with G. calceola, Quenstredt, a plicated oyster, 



*See Am. Journ., voL 28, 2d sen, p. 299; 

 I860.] 8 




130 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



closely allied to 0. Marshii^'-'' a Pecten scarcely distinguishable from P. lens of 

 Sowerby, a small Dentalium, and Belemniles densus, Meelj and Hayden. From 

 the identity of some of these species with forms collected by Dr. Hayden at the 

 Black Hills, from beds overlying the red gypsum bearing strata of that region, 

 and associated with other well marked Jurassic types, as well as from the 

 affinities of the new species discovered at the locality under consideration on 

 the North Platte, we have no hesitation in referring these deposits to the 

 Jurassic sj'stem, in accordance with the views of Dr. Hayden and one of the 

 writers (F. B. M.) expressed in regard to the beds alluded to at the Black Hills. 

 (See Proceed. Acad. Nat. Sci., Philad'a, March, 1858.) 



Cretaceous Rocks. 



Returning south-westward again to Weber river, in order to follow up the 

 succession of the formations, we find that at a point nearly due east of Salt 

 Lake City, on that stream, and but a short distance north of the locality, where 

 it has already been mentioned that Jurassic beds with Pentacrinus occur, out- 

 crops of a Whitish Sandstone were seen, containing in an imperfect condition 

 an Oyster, agreeing in all respects, as far as could be determined, with 0. 

 glabra of Meek and Hayden. This rock, with the same oyster, was also seen 

 some eight or nine miles farther down Weber River; also, on White Clay Creek, 

 a tributary of Weber River, and some fifty miles farther east on Sulphur Creek, 

 a tributary of Bear River. At the latter locality a small Anomia was also 

 found with the same Oyster ; and in a more yellowish portion of the same for- 

 mation several specimens of Inoceramus, closely allied to the Western species 

 usually referred to /. problematicus. Judging from the Oyster occurring in 

 this rock, and from its lithological characters, it would seem to be of 

 the same age as some older Cretaceous strata, at the mouth of Judith River, on 

 the Upper Missouri, which have been referred by Dr. Hayden and one of the 

 writers^ provisionally to No. 1, of the Nebraska section. 



At several of the localities rather extensive beds of excellent brown coal, 

 with some shale, were seen in immediate contact with this Oyster Sandstone, 

 and apparently dipping at the same angle, so as to give the impression, when 

 examined, that it belongs to the same epoch. 



Well marked Cretaceous rocks were seen at a point on the Platte below 

 the Red Buttes, near the Platte Bridge. The beds consist of gray shales and 

 slates. The fossils found here are a large new species of Inoceramus, a 

 fragment of a much compressed Baculiie and Ostrea congesta of Conrad. From 

 the presence of the latter fossil, it is more than pr-jbable these beds are on a 

 parallel with No. 2 or 3 of the Nebraska Cretaceous series. 



Tertiary Rocks. 



Tertiary formations occur over a large area in the region of Fort Bridger. 

 They seem to belong to two distinct epochs, the older of which was seen on 

 Bear River, near the mouth of Sulphur Creek, about 30 miles west of Fort 

 Bridger, and but a short distance from the locality, already mentioned, where 

 the Oyster and Inoceramus occur in a yellow sandstone. The outcrop seen 

 here consists of light colored and gray argillaceous shale, with coarse dark and 

 light colored limestones, all of which dip at a high angle. The fossils collected 

 from these beds consist of one new species of tlnio, three of Corhula (^Potamo- 

 mya'), three species of Melanin, three or four of Paludina, and one of Melampus. 



This is an exceedingly interesting deposit, which is undoubtedly of brackish- 

 water origin, the fossils belonging to just such a group of genera as we would 

 expect to find in an estuary deposit, without any strictly marine forms. One 



*The oyster here alluded to, is distinct from the species referred by Mr. Maroon to 

 (9. Marskii. The O. Marshii of Maroon holds a much higher stratigraphio position than 

 . the above mentioned species. 



[April, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 131 



of the species of Mclania appears to be identical with Ccrithium fenerum of Hall, 

 (Fremont's Report, pi. 3, fig. 6,) and a small Paludina agrees very closely with 

 Natica? accidenfaiis, while a third is eqiiall3'^as near Turbo paludinceformis, of the 

 same report. All the other species are new excepting one Paludina, which is 

 identical with P. Conradl of Meek and Hayden, from the estuary beds at the 

 mouth of Judith River, on the Upper Missouri. All the facts point to the con- 

 clusion that this formation holds a low position in the Tertiary System, or, in 

 other words, is probably of Eocene age. 



The succeeding more recent Tertiary beds of this region, are extensively 

 developed along the route traversed, from near the last mentioned locality to 

 Fort Bridger, and thence towards the South Pass. They differ materially in 

 their lithological character from the older deposits just described, and are 

 characterized by an entirely different group of fossils. The upper part of this 

 series consists of greenish sandstones and arenaceous shales, interstratified with 

 sandy and calcareous slates altogether estimated at from two to three hundred 

 feet in thickness, and apparently destitute of fossils. Then comes, (descending,) 

 light colored argillaceous and pure limestones, with at places great numbers of 

 fossils, all of which are strictly fresh water forms, belonging to a few species. 

 Those collected consist of two new species of lUelania, two of Limnea, one of 

 Unio and two or three of Planor bis. There is also at the junction of the lower 

 light colored more calcareous deposits with those above, at many places, a 

 band of dark shaly, more or less carbonaceous material, containing many im- 

 pressions of fern and other leaves. 



As all the fossils found in the foregoing series are distinct from those yet 

 discovered in known horizons, inthe other Tertiary basins of the North- West, 

 we have no means of drawing parallels, though they are probably miocene. 

 Whether the extensive lignite beds on Bitter Muddy Creeks, east and north of 

 Fort Bridger, belong to this series or to the horizon of the older Sulphur Creek 

 coal is unknown, these localities being too remote from the route to be examined. 



The more modern group described above was never seen in an upheaved or 

 inclined condition, like the estuary beds on Bear River, though it is manifest 

 that the general contour of the country has been considerably modified since its 

 deposition, as this formation was often seen occupying some of the most 

 elevated positions. 



Beneath this series heavy deposits were observed at several places, consisting 

 of light and whitish fine grained sandstone in thick layers, interstratified with 

 bright red, areno-argillaceous shales. Although these beds appeared to be 

 conformable with the superimposed Tertiary, as no organic remains were found 

 in them, their age must be regarded as doubtful. 



From the foregoing remarks it will be seen that these collections furnish no 

 evidence of the existence of strictly marine Tertiary deposits in the Green River 

 Basin, but like all those yet obtained in Nebraska, point to the conclusion that 

 the Tertiary strata of this central portion of the Continent were deposited in 

 brackish and fresh waters. The oldest of these formations, so far as known, 

 contain a group of moUusca indicating brackish waters, while all the subsequent 

 formations are of strictly fresh water origin. 



Another fact worthy of note is, that all the secondary and Tertiary fossils 

 collected during the survey came from localities east of the Wahsatch range of 

 mountains, while all the specimens collected west of that range of mountains, 

 in the Great Basin, came from Palaeozoic rocks. 



In the ranges of mountains west of the 116th degree of longitude, to the 

 Sierra Nevada, near lat. SO'', igneous rocks predominate, and only few traces of 

 stratified rock were found in that district, in none of which any organic remains 

 were observed. 



F. B. Meek and H. Ekgelmann. 



1890.] 




132 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Catalogue of Birds collected during a survey of a route for a ship Canal across, 

 the Isthmus of Darien, by order of the Government of the United States, 

 made by Lieut. N. Michler, of the TJ.S. Topographical Engineers, with notes 

 and descriptions of new species. 



BY JOHN CASSIN. 



The route surveyed by Lieut. Michler, for the purpose of ascertaining the 

 practicability of establishing communication by ■vpater, between the Atlantic 

 and Pacific Oceans, was mainly by way of the river Atrato and its tributaries, 

 the Truando and the Nercua. In the performance of this duty, the Atrato was 

 ascended for a distance of about ninety miles, to the mouth of the Truando, 

 and then a southwesterly route pursued along the latter towards the Pacific Ocean. 

 The Nercua is a tributary of the Truando at a distance of tbirty-six miles from 

 the union of the latter with the Atrato. 



The most interesting localities mentioned in the present catalogue are on 

 those two rivers, especially after the Truando reaches the Cordilleras, in which 

 in a great measure it and the Nercua have their course. These localities have 

 been but very partially explored by naturalists. Another locality frequently 

 mentioned is Turbo, which is a small village on the Atlantic, directly on the 

 eastern side of the Gulf of Uraba or Darien, and nearly opposite to the mouths 

 or delta of the Atrato. 



This collection was made by Mr. "William S. Wood, Jr. and Mr. Charles J. 

 Wood of Philadelphia, who accompanied the Expedition, and were of course 

 under the immediate direction of the chief officer of the Expedition, Lieut. N. 

 Michler. of the U. S. Topographical Engineers. This accomplished officer and 

 gentleman encouraged in the fullest degree investigations in Natural History 

 throughout the route, whenever consistent with other duties, and as opportu- 

 nity presented. To his enlightened views and evident appreciation of the in- 

 teresting character of the zoology of the country traversed by the Expedition, 

 science in America is indebted for the present valuable collection, including 

 several birds never before known, and other valuable additions to the zoology 

 of this continent. 



1. Htpotbiorchis FEMORALis,(Temminck). 



Falco femoralis, Temm., PI. Col. i. liv. 21. 

 Temm, PL Col. 121, 343, U. S. Pacific R. R. Reports, x. pi. 1. 

 From Carthagena. 



2. MoRPHNCs GriANBNSis, (Daudiu)? 



Falco guianensis, Daud. Tr. d'Orn. ii. p. 78 ? 

 Lesson. Traite d"Orn. ii, pi. 11 ? 



From the river Truando. One specimen only, not adult, and in bad con- 

 dition, appears to be this or a nearly allied species. 



"Observed once only, in the Rio Truando, at the first camp, after leaving the 

 Atrato. I noticed this eagle at first perched in a high tree, but after I had 

 fired at a small bird, he immediately flew very rapidly and fiercely directly 

 towards the spot where I was standing, as though he intended to pounce upon 

 me. He approached within a few feet, when I shot him with small bird shot." 

 (Mr. C. J. Wood.) 



3. AsTURiNA MAGNiROSTKis, (GmcHn). 



Falco magnirostris, Gm. &vst. Nat., i. p. 282, (1788.) 

 Temm. PI. Col, 86, Buff. PI.'EuI, 464. 

 From Turbo. 



4. BuTEOGALLUS NiGRicoLLis, (Latham) 



Falco nigricollis, Lath., Ind. Orn. i. p. 35, (1790). 



[March 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 133 



Aquila milvoides, Spix ? 



Spix, Av. Bras. i. pi. 1, d ? Le Vaill, Ois. d'Afr. i. pi. 20. 

 From the river Truaado. " Only observed in trees on the Rio Truando, about 

 40 or 50 miles from the Cordilleras." (Mr. C. J. Wood). 



5. Urubitinga mexicana, Du Bus. 



Morphnus mexicanus, Du Bus, Bull. Acad. Brussels, 1847, p. 102, 

 From the delta of the Atrato. Specimens of this little known species are 

 quite identical with others from Mexico in the museum of this Academy. It is 

 accurately described by the Viscount Du Bus as above cited. 



6. Ibycter AQUiLiNus, (Gmeliu). 



Falco aquilinus, Gm. Syst. Nat. i. p. 280, (1788). 

 Buff. PL Enl, 417, Vieill. Gal. i. pi. 6. 

 From Turbo, on the Atlantic, and the river Truando, near the Cordilleras. 

 " Abundant in the vicinity of the village of Turbo, but less numerous in the 

 interior. Always seen in trees, and utters a very disagreeable note bearing 

 some resemblance to the gobble of the male Turkey." (Mr. C. J. Wood). 



7. Nyctidromus guianensis, (Gmelin). 



Caprimulgus guianensis, Gm. Syst. Nat. ii. p. 1030, (1788). 

 Caprimulgus albicollis. Lath, Ind. Orn. ii. p. 585, (1790). 

 Buff. PI. Enl. 733. 

 From Turbo. 

 Smaller than iV. americanus, but much resembling that species. 



8. Progne chalybea, (Gmelin)? 



Hirundo chalybea, Gm. Syst. Nat. i, p. 1026, (1788)? 

 Young birds from Carthagena, very diflScult to recognize, but much resem- 

 bling the species I understand to be as here given. 



9. COTYLE FLAVIGASTRA, (Vieillot). 



Hirundo flavigastra, Vieill. Nouv. Diet. xiv. p. 534, (1817). 

 Hirundo jugularis, De Wied. 

 Temm. PL CoL 161, fig. 2. 

 From Carthagena and the river Truando. 



10. Ceryle torquata, (Linnaeus). 



Alcedo torquata, Linn. Syst. Nat. i. p. 180, (1766). 

 Buff. PL EnL 284. 

 From the rivers Atrato and Truando. 



Numerous specimens in the collection of the Expedition, which are exclusive- 

 ly adults, in fine plumage. 



" Very abundant in the immense swamps on the Atrato and Truando, alight- 

 ing on the low trees, and uttering a loud shrill note. Catches small fishes 

 apparently very easily, on account of their abundance, and returns to the tree." 

 (Mr. C. J. Wood). 



11. Ceryle amazona, (Latham). 



Alcedo amazona, Lath. Ind. Orn. i. p. 257, (1790). 

 Alcedo vestita, Dumont. 

 Du Bois, Orn. Gal. pi. 85. 

 From the river Nercua. 



12. Ceryle inda, (Linnaeus). 



Alcedo inda, Linn. Syst. Nat. i. p. 179, (1766). 



Alcedo viridirufa, Bodd. Tab. PL Enl. p. 36, (1783). 



Alcedo bicolor, Gm. Syst. Nat. i. p. 451, (1788). 

 Edwards, Glean, vii. pL 355. Buff. PL EnL 592. 

 From Turbo. 

 Common enough in South American collections, but never quite correctly 



I860.] 




134 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



named in catalogues, nor hardly elsewhere. Naturalists evidently overlook 

 the solemn fact that LinnaEUS gives the habitat of his species as above cited, 

 " in India occidentali'\ The name inda seems to have been understood to mean 

 a far distant country, beyond the Ganges, and evidently misled even Boddasri 

 and Gmelin, but is strictly applicable to this bird. It can readily be recog- 

 nized from the descriptions and Edwards' figure above cited. 



" One specimen seen in a salt water marsh, near the village of Turbo, very 

 quiet and easily approached." (Mr. C. J. Wood). 



13. Certle superciliosa, (LinnsBus). 



Alcedo superciliosa, Linn. Svst. Nat. i. p. 179, (1766). 

 Edwards, Glean, v. pi. 245, Buff. PI. Enl. 756, fig. 2, 3. 

 From Turbo. 



" In a salt water marsh, almost in the village of Turbo, one specimen only 

 seen perched in a bush, which was obtained without difficulty, being very 

 unsuspicious." (Mr. C. J. Wood). 



14. Jacamerops grandis, (Gmelin). 



Alcedo grandis, Gm. Syst. Nat. i. p. 458, (1766.) 

 Le Vaill. Jacamars, pi. 54. 

 From the river Truando. 



" First camp after leaving the Atrato, and the only time that this bird wag 

 noticed. Sits in a tree and darts after insects like a fly-catcher." (Mr. G. J. 

 Wood). 



15. Galbcla RCFicATJDA, Cuvicr. 



Galbula ruficauda, Cuv. Reg. An. i. p. 420, (1817). 

 Le Vaill. Jac. pi. 50, Yieill. Gal. i. pi. 29. 

 From the river Nercua. 



One specimen only, in bad condition, which appears to be this species, 

 but is darker chestnut brown on the abdomen, than other specimens now before 

 me. 



16. Bucoo R0FIC0LL13, Lichtenstein. 



" Bucco ruficollis, Licht." Wagler, Isis, 1829, p. 658. 

 Tamatia bicincta, Gould, Proc. Zool. Soc. London, 1836, p. 80? 

 Tamatia gularis, D'Orb. et Lafres. Rev. Zool. 1838, p. 166 ? 

 From the river Truando. 



" Seen once onlv, at the first camp on the Truando, after leaving the Atrato." 

 (Mr. C. J. Wood).' 



For all that I can see this is the young of B. bicincta, Gould, as above, with 

 which B. gularis, D'Orb, appears to be synonymous. 



17. Malaooptila panamensis, Lafresnaye. 



Malacoptila panamensis, Lafres. Rev. Zool. 1847, p. 79. 

 From the river Truando. 



" Very quiet and inactive, startiog out occasionally from its perch to capture 

 an insect, and then returning." (Mr. C. J. Wood). 



IS. MONASA PALLESCENS, nobis. 



Rather larger than any other known species : wing rather long, fifth quill 

 longest ; tail moderate, with the feathers wide. Front and lores white, entire 

 head, quills, upper and under tail coverts black, with a greenish lustre, (no 

 white on the chin nor throat), upper and under wing coverts, back, rump and 

 under parts of body cinereous ; very light on upper wing coverts, and darker 

 on the back; bill red, sexes alike. 



Total length about 11 in-;hes, wing 5^, tail 5 inches. 



ITab. Cordilleras mountains on the river Truando, New Grenada. In Nation- 

 al Museum and Mus. Acad. Philadelphia. Discovered bv Mr. Chas. J. Wood 

 and Mr. Wm. S. Wood, Jr. 



[April, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 135 



This is a remarkable and apparently new species of Monasa, strictly of the 

 same group, and related to 31. Morphofus (=^alhifron^ &nd personate) and M. pe- 

 ruana. Like those species, the present bird has a conspicuous white frontal 

 band, which reaches very nearly from one eye to the other, but it differs from 

 those species in being without any white whatever on the throat. It is, how- 

 ever, easily distinguished from all known species, by the cinereous color of the 

 body above and below and wing coverts ; which color is very light, and in some 

 specimens nearly white on the whole of the upper wing coverts, and but slightly 

 darker on the under wing coverts. Several specimens labelled as both sexes 

 are in the collection from the river Truando. 



Stated by Messrs. W. S. and C. J. Wood, to have been seen once only in the 

 Cordilleras on the river Truando, in January, 1858. A party of eight or ten 

 specimens was observed sitting very quietly in a tree at some distance from the 

 ground, and being quite regardless of the gun or the presence of man, several 

 were obtained. Specimens labelled as females are slightly larger than those 

 stated to be males.* 



19. Trogon Masskna, Gould. 



Trogon Massena, Gould, Monog. Trogonidfe, (1838). 

 Gould, Mon. Trog.pl. 16. 

 From the Truando, and also from the delta of the Atrato. 

 All the specimens in the collection are of young birds in but indifferent con- 

 dition, amongst which one specimen may be the young of T. macrourus. 



*The following species oi Monasa are in the Museum of this Academy : 



1. Monasa atra, (Boddaert). 



Cuculus ater, Bodd Tab. PI. Enl. p. 30, (1783). 

 Cuculus tranquillus, Gm. Syst. Nat. i. p. 417, '1788). 

 Bucco cinereus, Gm. Syst. Nat. i. p. 409, (1788). 

 Corvus australis. Gm. Syst. Nat. i. p. 377, (1788). 

 Bucco calcaratus, Lath. Ind. Cm. i. p. 206, (J790). 

 Corvus affinis, Shaw, Gen. Zool. vii. p. 381, (1809). 

 Buff. PI. Enl. 512, Le VaiU. Barbets, pi. 44, 45. 



2. Monasa morphoeus, (Wagler). 



Bucco morphoeus, Wagler, Hahn's Voegel, Asien. Africa, &c. pt. xiv. (1822). 

 "Bucco leucops, 111." Licht. Verz. p. 8, (1823). 

 Bucco albifrons, Spix, Av. Bras. i. p 53, (1824). 

 Monasa personata, Vieill. Gal. i. p. 23, (1825) 

 Hahn, Voegel, pt. xiv. pi. 2. Spix. Av. Bras. i. pi. 41, fig. 1, Vieill. Gal. i. pi. 36 

 Swams. B. of Braz. pi. 12. 



3. Monasa nigrifrons, (Spix ). 



Bucco nigrifrons, Spix, Av. Bras. i. p. 53, (1824). 

 Lypornix unicolor, Wagler, Syst. Av. (1827, not paged). 

 Spix. A v. Bras. i. pi. 41, fig. 2. 



4. Monasa axillaris, (Lafresnaye). 



Monasa axillaris, Lafres. Rev. et Mag. Zool. April, IB.'iO, p. 216. 

 Monasa flavirostris, Strickland, Jard. Contr. April, 1850. 

 Jard Contr. 1850, pi. (not numbered). 

 It would require nice discrimination to determine with certainty the priority of either 

 of the above names. My impression is that M. Lafresnaye's name is entitled rather to 

 preference, because it bears an unmistakeable date, which the other does not, but requires 

 to be determined by examination or approximation. 



5. Monasa peruana, Verreaux. 



" Monasa peruana, Bp. et Verr." label on spec, from M. Verreaux. 



Monasa peruana, Sclater, Proc. Zool. Soc. London, 1855, p. 194. 

 This is very closely allied lo the now well known M. morphoeus, and scarcely dis- 

 tinguishable without specimens of both. A specimen bearing M. N'erreaux's label is in 

 the Acad. Coll., and is therefore entirely reliable as this species. 



6. Monasa pallescens, Cassin. 



I860.] 




136 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



20. Teogon melanoptebus, Swainson. 



Trogon melanopterus, Sw. Cab. Cy. p. 332, (1838). 

 Gould, Mon. pi. 10, 11. 

 From the river Truando. 

 One specimen only in adult plumage. 



21. Trogon atricollis, Vieillot. 



Trogon atricollis, Vieill. Nouv. Diet. viii. p. 318, (1817). 

 Gould, Mon. pi. 8. 

 Pall3 of the Truando. 



" In the Cordilleras on the Rio Truando. Seen once only, very unsuspicious; 

 and easily shot." (Mr. C. J. Wood). 



22. MoMOTUS Martii, (Spix). 



Prionites Martii. Spix, Av. Bras. i. p. 64, (1824). 

 Momotus semirufus, Sclater, Rev. et Mag. Zool. 1853, p. 489? 

 Spix, Av. Bras. i. pi. 60. 

 From the river Nercua. 

 One specimen in adult plumage, labelled as a male bird. 



23. Cbypticus platyrhynchcs, (Leadbeater). 



Momotu3 platyrhynchus, Leadb. Trans. Linn. Soc. Lond. xvi. p. 92, (1829). 

 Crypticus Martii, Bonap. Proc. Zool. Soc. London, 1837, p. 119. 

 Jard. and Selby, 111. Orn. iii. pi. 106. 

 From the Cordilleras on the river Nercua. 



In adult plumage, and in colors singularly resembling the preceding, but 

 with the bill differently formed, and affording strong generic distinctions. 

 This is probably the first time that these two birds, which have much per- 

 plexed naturalists, have ever occurred in the same collection. Both are 

 labelled as from the same locality, and I am informed by Mr. C. J. Wood, that 

 they inhabit the forests on the river Nercua, on the western side of the Cor- 

 dilleras. 



24. Ramphastos Tocardcs, Vieillot. 



Ramphastos Tocard. Vieill. Nouv. Diet, xxxiv. p. 280. 

 Ramphastos Swainsonii, Gould. Proc. Zool. Soc. London, 1833, p. 69. 

 Gould, Mon. Ramph. pi. 4. 

 From the River Nercua. 



25. Ramphastos carin.atos, Swainson. 



Ramphastos carinatus, Sw. Zool. 111. i. p. (pi. 45, not paged.) 

 Gould. Monog. pi. 2. 

 River Nercua. One specimen only, in mature plumage, from the western 

 side of the Cordilleras on the River Nercua. 



26. Pteroglossus ertthropygics, Gould. 



Pteroglossus erythropygius, Gould, Proc. Zool. Soc. London, 1843, p. 15. 

 Gould, Monog. pi, 21, Zool. Voy, Sulphur, pi. 28. 

 From the River Truando. Specimens labelled as both sexes are in the col- 

 lection. The females are smaller, and in both sexes there is some variation in 

 the color of the bill as noticed by Mr. Goald, the white being in these specimens 

 more extended in the females. 



27. Selenidera spectabilis, Cassin. 



Selenidera spectabilis, Cass. Proc. Acad. Philada, 1857, p, 214. 

 Jour. Acad. Philada. iv. pi. 1. 

 From the falls of the River Truando. 



Both sexes of this species, in excellent plumage and preservation are in the 

 collection from the Cordilleras on the River Truando. They are, however, pre- 

 cisely similar to Mr. Mitchell s specimens described by me as above cited, 

 though the occurrence of this little-known species again, and at another locali- 

 ty, is a point of interest. 



[April, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 137 



28. Ara militaris, (Linnasus). 



Psittacus militaris, Linn. Syst. Nat. i. p. 139, (1766). 

 Le Vaill. Parrots, pi. 6, Edward's Glean, vii. pi. 313. 

 From the River lYercua la the Cordilleras mouatains. 



29. Aka ararauna, (Linnaeus). 



Psittacus ararauna, Linn. Syst. Nat. i. p. 139, (1766). 

 Le Vaill. Parr. pi. 3, Lear, Parr. pi. 8. 

 From the mouth of the Atrato, Gulph of Uraba. 



30. Ara severa, (Linnaeus). 



Psittacus severus, Linn. Svst. Nat. i. p. 140, (1766). 

 Le Vaill. Parr. pi. 8, 9, 16, Edward's Glean, v. pi. 229. 

 Mouth of the River Nercua. 



31. CoNURUS PERTiNAX, (Linnaeus). 



Psittacus pertioax, Linn. Syst. Nat. i. p. 142, (1766). 

 Le Vaill. Parr. pi. 34, Edw. Glean, v. pL 234. 

 Carthagena. 



32. CoNDRDS Tovi, (Gmeliu). 



Psittacus tovi, Gm. Syst. Nat. i. p. 351, (1788). 

 Bourj. St. Hil. Parr. pL 48. 

 From the River Atrato. 



33. PsiTTACDi-A CYANOPTERA, (Boddaert). 



Psittacus cyanopterus, Bodd. Tab. PI. EnL p. 27, (1783). 

 Psittaculus gregarius, Spis. Av. Bras. i. p. 39, (1824). 

 Bourj. St. Hil. Parr. pL Spix. Av. Bras. i. pi. 34. 

 Carthagena. 



34. Dryocopos Malherbei, (G. R. Gray). 



Campephilus Malherbii, G. R. Gray, Gen. Birds, ii. p. 436, pL 108, (1845). 

 Malherbe, Monog. Picidae, pi. 6. 

 From Turbo. " Occasionally seen in the forest at Turbo, very shy and difS- 

 cult to approach." (Mr. C. J. Wood). 



35. Dryocopos albirostris, (Vieillot). 



Picus albirostris, Vieill. Nouv. Diet. xxvi. p. 69, (1818). 

 Megapicus albirostris, (VieilL) Malherbe. 

 Malherbe, Monog. Picidae, pi. 4. 



36. Gelbds mentalis, nobis. 



About the size of C. rufus, occipital feathers somewhat lengthened, third quill 

 longest, bill rather short. Male, with a large space on the chin and throat, 

 bright scarlet. This space begins nearly on a line with the commissure of the 

 bill on each side, covering the chin and throat, and is not divided in the mid- 

 dle, but is integral. 



Head and upper parts of body dark cinnamon, many feathers having semi- 

 circular and crescent shaped spots of black, rump and upper tail coverts lighter. 

 Quills brownish black, barred with dark cinnamon, tail brownish black, all the 

 feathers of which are barred with dull yellowish cinnamon color. Underparts 

 of body yellowish cinnamon, lighter than the back and with the black spots 

 much more numerous, every feather havi g nearly complete semicircular and 

 crescent shaped bands of black. Under wing coverts uniform dark cinnamon, 

 not spotted, axillaries dark cinnamon with a few imperfect bands of deep black. 

 Bill bluish horn color, under mandible lighter. Female, much like the male, 

 but having no red patch on the throat and the black spots on the under parts 

 not so numerous. 



Total length about 8 inches, wing 43, tail If inches. 



Hab. — Turbo and Atrato River, New Grenada. Discovered by Messrs. Wm. 

 S. and Chas. J. Wood, Spec, in Nat. Mus. Washington. 



I860.] 




138 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



Of this Woodpecker, I have found no description nor figure which seemed to 

 approach it, except Picus undatus of authors figured by Edwards, pi. 332. It is 

 nearly the size and of the same general colors as that species, but instead of 

 two patches of red on the cheeks as described and figured in P. undatus, the 

 present bird has a single large patch completely enclosing a space on the 

 throat around the base of the lower mandible, similar to that in the common 

 Picus varius of the United States. This character I cannot trace in any other 

 species of this genus. 



This bird belongs to the same subgeneric group as Celeus ru/us, which seems 

 to have no name, though readily defined. 



37. Cbotophaga major, Brisson. 



Crotophaga major, Brisson, iv. p. 180, (1760). 

 Bufi". PI. Enl. 102. 

 From the River Atrato. 



38. Cyanocorax pileatus, (Temminck). 



Corvus pileatus, Temm. PI. Col. (liv. 10.) 

 Temm. PI. Col. 58. 

 From the rivers Truando and Nercua. " In flocks on the high trees on the 

 Truando before reaching the mountains. Very shy and noisy, calling out 

 loudly whenever an attempt was made to approach them. (Mr. C. J. Wood). 



39. QuiscALUs macrourus, Swainson. 



Quiscalus macrourus, Sw. Cab. Cy. p. 299, (1838). 

 Rept. U. S. and Mex. Bound. Survey, Birds, pi. 20. 

 From Turbo and Carthagena. "In parties often or a dozen feeding on ber- 

 ries along the sea shore. Abundant, especially at Carthagena, and noisy, but 

 not easily shot." (Mr. C. J. Wood). 



40. OcYALus Wagleri, (G. R. Gray). 



Cacicus Wagleri, G. R. Gray, Gen. Birds, ii. p. 342, (1845). 

 Gray's Genera, ii. pi. 85. 

 From the rivers Truando and Nercua. Specimens of both sexes in mature 

 plumage, the females being much the smaller. 



41. OsTiNOPs CRiSTATUs, (Gmelin). 



Oriolus cristatus, Gm. Svst. Nat. i. p, 387, (1788). 

 Sw. B. of Bras. pi. 32, Buff. PI. Enl. 328. 

 From Turbo and the Atrato River. 



" In company with smaller species along the Atrato, and seemed to be feed- 

 ing on the fruit of a tree which grew plentifully on the edge of the water. 

 Unsuspicious and easily approached." (Mr. C. J. Wood). 



42. OsTiNOPS GUATiiioziNus, Bouaparte. 



Ostinops guatimozinus, Bonap. Compte Rend., 1853, p. 833. 



Large, resembling 0. Jlontezumae and 0. bifasciatus, but larger than either, 

 darker colored, and with the crest feathers much longer and more slender. 

 Male. — Head, under parts of body and tibiae brownish black, under tail 

 coverts chestnut brown, same as the back. Entire upper parts of body, wing 

 coverts and outer webs of quills purplish chestnut brown. Tail graduated, 

 two middle feathers brownish black, all others yellow. Naked space below 

 the eye completely divided by a line of short imbricated feathers nearly on a 

 line with the lower edge of the lower mandible. Crest long and composed of 

 very narrow feathers. Bill wide at base in front, high and compressed, 

 pointed, basal two-thirds black, terminal one-third light colored (red?). Total 

 length about 2H inches, wing 10^, tail 8 J inches. Crest feathers 3 inches, bill 

 from gape 3^ inches. 



Ifab. — River Truando, New Granada. 



One specimen, labelled as a male, in the collection of the Expedition is dis- 



[April, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 139 



tinct from any species in Acad. Coll. or that we find described, except as above. 

 It is nearly allied to 0. Montezumae of Mexico and Central America, and 0. 

 bifasciatus of Northern Brazil, both of -syhich are in the Acad. Coll. and are 

 distinct from each other. 



The present bird differs from both of the above species in beinpr larger, 

 darker colored and having a lengthened almost filiform crest. The bill also is 

 disproportionately longer and wider at base, with a rounded termination in 

 front. It is not without scruples that I apply the name above to this bird ; the 

 description by the Prince Bonaparte, as cited, not being sufficient for the recog- 

 nition of any species nearly related to another.* 



"At Camp Abert, on the Truando, before reaching the Cordilleras, one 

 specimen only seen, which was shot; it was very shy and seemed to be a stranger." 

 (Mr. C. J. Wood.) 



43. Cassicds icteronotus, Vieillot. 



Cassicus icteronotus, Vieill. 

 Sw. B. of Braz., pi. 3. 

 From Turbo and the delta of the Atrato River. "Very abundant at Turbo, 

 builds many nests on the same tree, which are long and hanging, and entered 

 from the top. Always seen in large parties and very noisy, especially in the 

 morning, although their notes are rather agreeable." (Mr. C. J. Woodj. 



44. Cassiccs chrysoxotus, Lafresnaye? 



Cassicus chrysonotus, Lafres. 

 D'Orb. Voy. Am. Mer. Ois. pi. 52 ? 

 From Turbo. A single specimen in young plumage appears to be this species. 



45. Cassicus uropygialis, Lafresnaye ? 



Cassicus uropygialis, Lafr. Rev. Zool. 1843, p. 290? 

 Falls of the River Truando. 

 Specimens not mature nor in good condition appear to be this species. 



*The three nearly allied species are as follows : 



1. OSTINOPS BIFASCIATUS, (Spix). 



Cassicus bifasciatus, Spix, Av. Bras., i. p. 6.5 (1824). 

 Spix, Av. Bras., i. pi. 6i. 

 Naked space on the cheek, integral (not divided as in the two succeeding species). 

 Crest feathers rather long, not so narrow nor so long as in O. guatimozinus, but longer 

 than in 0. Montezumae. Head and breast brownish black, entire upper parts of body, 

 abdomen, under tail coverts and UbicB light chestnut brown, tail yellow, central two 

 feathers dark brown. Total length, male 18 to 20 inches. Naked space on cheek pre- 

 cisely as figured bv Spix as above cited, which figure is sufficiently accurate. Two 

 specimens from Para, in Acad. CoU. 



2. OsTiNOPS Montezumae, (Lesson). 



Cacicus Montezumae, Less. Cent. Zool p. 33, (1830). 

 Less. Cent. Zool. pi. 7, Gervais, Atlas de Zool. pi. 33. 

 Naked space on the cheek partially divided by a line of short imbricated features 

 above the lower edge of the lower mandible. Crest feathers short and inconspicuous, 

 shorter than in either of the other species here described. Plumage much as in preced- 

 ing, but with the tibics brownish black. Total length, male, about 20 inches. Naked space 

 on cheek accurately represented in both plates above cited, which are otherwise very 

 accurate. Nine specimens in Acad. CoU. including Lesson's original which is labelled as 

 from Mexico, others are from Nicaragua. 



3. OsTiNOPS GUATIMOZINUS, Bonaparte. 



Osiinops guatimozinus, Bonap. Compt. Rend. 1853, p. 833. 

 Naked space on cheek completely divided by a line of short, imbricated feathers nearly 

 on a line with the lower edge of lower mandible. Crest feathers long and pendant, 

 longer than in either of the preceding. Plumage generally resembling that of both the 

 preceding, but darker, entire under parts brownish black, tibicB black. Total length 21 to 

 22 inches. One specimen in National Museum, Washington, 



I860.] 




140 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



46. Icterus mesomelas (Wagler). 



Psarocolius mesomelas, Wagl. 

 Lesson, Cent. Zool. pi. 22. 

 From the River Atrato. 



47. Icterus Giracdii, Cassia. 



Icterus Giraudii, Cass. Proc. Acad. Philad'a, iii. p. 3.32 (1847). 

 Journ. Acad. Philad'a, i. pi. 17. 

 From the Rivers Truando and Nercua and the " Shores of the Pacific." 

 Several specimens differing somewhat in size are from the Cordilleras and 

 the western coast, until quite reaching the Pacific Ocean. One specimen 

 obtained by Mr. W. S. Wood, Jr., is labelled "Shores of the Pacific." 



" In bushes and low trees on the Truando, and has very pleasant notes of the 

 same general character as those of the Baltimore Oriole. Solitary and rather 

 wild." (Mr. C. J. Wood;. 



48. Xanthornus affinis, Lawrence. 



Xanthornus afiSnis, Lawr. Am. Lye. New York, 1851, p. 113. 

 From the Atrato. A single specimen in adult male plumage. 



49. EuspizA AMERICANA (Gmelin). 



Emberiza americana, Gm. Syst. Nat. i. p. 872 (1788). 

 Wilson, Am. Orn. i. pi. 3. Aud. B. of Am. pi. 384, Oct. ed. iii. pi. 156. 

 From Turbo. " In flocks early in April, about grassy places at Turbo, and 

 seen for one day only." (Mr. C. J. Wood). 



50. PiTYLUs GROSSUS (Linnaeus). 



Loxia grossa, Linn. Syst. Nat. i. p. 307 (1766). 

 Buff. Pl.Enl. 154, 

 From the Falls of the River Truando. "In the mountains and seen once 

 only. Has a loud, musical note similar to that of the Cardinal bird of the 

 United States." (Mr. C. J. Wood). 



51. Saltator mutos, Sclater? 



Saltator mutus, Sclater, Proc. Zool. Soc, London, 1856, p. 72 ? 



Tanagra superciliaris, Spix, Av. Bras. ii. p. 44, pi. 47 ? 

 From Carthagena. "On the 'Popa' mountain at Carthagena." 

 Specimens in young plumage not for us easily identified. 



52. Abremon Schlegeli, Bonaparte. 



Arremon Schlegeli, Bonap. Consp. Av. i. p. 488 (1850). 



From Carthagena. Very fine specimens of this beautiful little bird, in adult 

 plumage. 



" In the high grass on the sea shore at Carthagena on the seed of which it 

 appeared to feed. Notes and habits generally resembled those of the Sparrows 

 of the United States, not abundant and difficult to obtain," (Mr. C. J. Wood). 



53. Ptranga aestiva (Gmelin). 



Tanagra aestiva, Gm. Syst. Nat. i. p. 889 (1788). 

 Wilson, Am. Orn. i. pi. 6, Aud. B. of Am. pi. 44, Oct. ed. iii. pi. 208, 

 From Turbo, "In the forrest at Turbo, early in April, seen onee only.'' 



54. Orthogonys olivacetjs, nobis. 



Form short and robust, bill rather wide at base, upper mandible with a dis- 

 tinct tooth-like lobe about the middle of its cutting edge, wing moderate, 

 fourth quill slightly longest, tail moderate or rather short. Male. — Front and 

 line extending over and around the eye bright yellow. Throat, middle of 

 abdomen, edge of wing at shoulders and under wing coverts greenish yellow. 

 Upper parts of head and body dark olive green, under parts olive green tinged 

 with yellowish, the latter color more apparent in the middle, under tail coverts 



[April, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 141 



greenish yellow. Quills brownish black, with their outer webs dark olive, 

 uniform with the back, tail dark olive, inner webs of outer feathers greenish 

 brown. The yellow on the throat somewhat striped or spotted with dark olive. 

 Bill bluish horn color, legs lighter. Sexes similar. 



Total length about 6f inches, wing 3i, tail 2^ inches. 



Hab. — Cordilleras Mountains, on the Kiver Truando,New Granada. Discov- 

 ered by Mr. W. S. Wood, Jr., and Mr. C. J. Wood, attached to U, S. Expedition 

 for surveying the River Atrato, in command of Lieut. N. Michler, U, S. Topog. 

 Engineers. Spec, in Nat. Mus., Washington. 



This is a curious bird and has not a little puzzled the present writer. My 

 impression is that it is an undescribed genus related to Icteria and more so to 

 Orthogonys and not unlike some species oi Pyranga. At present I rate it as an 

 Orthogonys to which it quite as much belongs as Fyranga cyanictera of authors 

 at least, of which there are several specimens in the Academy collection, 



Mr. C. J. Wood states that this bird inhabits low trees and bushes in the 

 Cordilleras, on the Rio Truando, and could be constantly heard at some local- 

 ities, though not so easily seen. Its notes are loud and much varied, bearing a 

 general resemblance to those of the Chat of North America {Icteria viridis). It 

 appeared to be very active and lively, constantly flying about the bushes and 

 changing its position. 



55. Tanagra cana, Swainson. 



Tanagra cana, Sw. B. of Braz. p, 2, (1841). 

 Sw, B. of Braz, pi. 37, 

 From Turbo. 



"Abundant in the orange and lime trees at Turbo, and in gardens and 

 other cultivated localities at Carthagena. Note only a single chirp and very 

 unsuspicious and easily shot," (Mr. C, J. Wood). 



56. Ramphocelcs icteronotus, Bonaparte. 



Ramphocelus icteronotus, Bonap, Proc. Zool. Soc. London, 1836, p, 121. 

 Du Bus, Esq. Orn. pi. 15. 

 From Turbo and the rivers Atrato and Truando. 



" Always observed frequenting one kind of tree, that grows along streams 

 of water, on the fruit of which it feeds. Abundant on the Rio Truando in the 

 month of March," (Mr. C. J. Wood). 



57. Ramphocelus dimidiatos, Lafresnaye. 



Ramphocelus dimidiatus, Lafres. Mag. Zool. 1837, p. (not paged). 

 Guerin's Mag. Zool. 1837, pi. 81. 

 From Turbo. 



* ' Abundant in April in the bushes and low trees in the drier parts of the 

 forest. Solitary but constantly seen, and heard only to utter a single chirp. 

 (Mr. C. J. Wood). 



58. Edcometis ceistata, (Du Bus). 



Pipilopsis cristata, Du Bus, Bull. Acad. Brussels, 1855, p. 154. 



From the river Truando. 



' ' At the first camp on the Truando after leaving the Atrato. In the bushes 

 and low trees, very shy, and seen once only in a party of three together. 

 Sings very pleasantly, and very loud for the size of the bird." (Mr. C. J. 

 Wood). 



59. Tachyphonus luctuosu?, D'Orb, et Lafres. 



Tachyphonus luctuosus, D'Orb. et Lafres. Mag. Zool. 1837, p. 29. 

 D'Orb, Voy, Am, Mer. Ois. PI. 20, 

 From the Truando, 



" Obtained during our encampment in the mountains, on the Rio Truando. 

 In the high trees, and rarely seen, and very shy and active. Male black, 

 female brown." (Mr. C. J.Wood). 



I860.] 




142 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



60. Tachyphonus De Lattrei, Lafresnaye. 



Tachyphonus De Lattrei, Lafres. Rev. Zool. 1847, p. 72. 



Falls of the Truando. 



" Seen once only, in the bushes on the bank of the Rio Truando, in the 

 month of March. About twenty specimens which seemed to be in company, 

 were noticed and several obtained, though they were very shy and not easily 

 approached. All chattered together like a flock of blackbirds, and appeared 

 to be feeding on a berry that was abundant." (Mr. C. J. Wood). 



61. Tachyphonus XANTHOPYsros, Sclater. 



Tachyphonus xanthopygius, Sclater, Proc. Zool. Soc. Lond. 1354, p. 158. 

 Proc. Zool. Soc. London, 1854, pi. 69, 1855, pi. 90. 



From the Truando. 



The male only, of this handsome and remarkable species, precisely as figured 

 by Mr. Sclater. 



" The wildest bird I met with in the whole journey. A portion of the sur- 

 veying party remained fifteen days at a camp in the Cordilleras, on the Rio 

 Truando, where only this bird was obtained, and was so very shy and watch- 

 ful, that it was with difliculty obtained. Three specimens were together and 

 were observed to always resort to one tree to roost, and constantly frequenting 

 the highest trees. Very active and perpetually on the move from one tree to 

 another, notes loud and musical, somewhat like those of the Baltimore Oriole 

 of the United States." (Mr. C. J. Wood). 



62. Tachyphonus? 

 Falls of the Truando. 



One specimen labelled as a female, but which is of no species with which 

 I am acquainted, nor find described. Not having the male I do not venture a 

 description. 



63. Calliste FRANCESCO, (Lafresuaye). 



Aglaia Fanny, Lafres. Rev. Zool. 1847, p. 72. 

 Des Murs. Icon. Orn. pi. 56. 

 From Turbo. 



" In a tree that grows along streams of water, on the fruit of which it feeds. 

 Rather shy and not easily approached, very quick and active." (Mr. C. J. 

 Wood). 



64. Calliste inoenata, Gould. 



Calliste inornata, Gould, Proc. Zool. Soc. London, 1855, p. 158. 

 Sclater, Monog. Calliste, pi. 45. 

 From Turbo. 



Probably the female or young, of the preceding, (C.francesccE), and given 

 by us as distinct, with some reluctance. The specimens in the collection are 

 very nearly as described and figured as cited above. 



" In the same tree, and appeared to be in company with the preceding, and 

 thought by my brother and myself to be the female of that bird. " (Mr. C. J. 

 Wood). 



65. Calliste Lavini^, Cassin. 



Calliste Lavinia, Cass. Proc. Acad. Philadelphia, 1858, p. 178. 



From the river Truando. 



We have much gratification in finding in the present collection, the second 

 specimen that we have ever seen of this interesting little species, though not 

 in mature plumage. It bears, however, the characteristic edging of rufous ou 

 the outer webs of the quills, and is easily recognised. 



" Shot at camp Toucey, in the mountains on the Rio Truando. In high 

 trees, very active and lively, and not easily obtained, though not often seen, 

 March, 1858." (Mr. C. J. Wood). 



[April, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 143 



66. EoPHOxiA FOLViCRissA, Sclater. 



Euphonia fulvicrissa, Sclater, Proc. Zool. Soc. Pliilada. 1856, p. 276. 



Falls of the Tr'uando. 



' ' At our encampment in the mountains on the Rio Truando, in the high 

 trees, and difficult to shoot. Not often seen, and quite shj and watchful." 

 (Mr. C. J. Wood). 



67. Nemosia aurigollis, Sclater. 



Nemosia auricoUis, Sclater, Proc. Zool. Soc. London, 1856, p. iii. 



From the river Truando. 



" At the first camp on the Truando, before reaching the mountains. In the 

 bushes growing abundantly in the extensive marshes and swamps on that 

 river. Appeared to have habits much like those of the Wrens, and constantly 

 repeated its notes, so as easily to be followed. (Mr. C. J. Wood). 



68. LiPAUGUS UNiRUFUs, Sclater. 



Lipaugns unirufus, Sclat. Proc. Zool. Soc. London, 1859, p. 385. 

 Querula fuscocinerea, Lafres. Rev. Zool. 1843, p. 291? 



From Turbo and the river Truando. 



Entire plumage light rufous, darker on the back, and lighter on the under 

 parts of the body and under wing coverts ; quills and tail rufous cinnamon, 

 shafts and inner webs of quills darker. Total length, about 9 inches, wing 5, 

 tail 4^ inches. Sexes alike. 



Several specimens labelled as both sexes, are from Turbo and the river 

 Truando, and all have the appearance of being in young or some peculiar 

 seasonal plumage. These specimens are all of an uniform dull rufous, very 

 nearly the color of the immature plumage in some species of black Tuchyphonus 

 which induces me to suppose that the adult of this bird is quite different in 

 color from the present specimens. Although undoubtedly of the genus 

 Lipaugus, this bird corresponds but indifferently with the last description 

 above cited, though it may be that species in the plumage of another season 

 than that described. 



"In the dry parts of the forest at Turbo, and in the Cordilleras on the Rio 

 Truando, in the lower trees. Frequently seen, but always solitary and silent. 

 Sits very quietly in a tree and flies after insects, especially the large coleop- 

 terous species, abundant on the route everywhere." (Mr. C. J. Wood). 



69. Querula cruenta, (Boddsert). 



Muscicapa cruenta, Bodd. Tab. PI. Enl. p. 23, (1783). 

 Buff. PI. Enl. 381, Vieill. Gal. pi. 115. 

 From Turbo. "Very abundant and in large parties in the thick and dry 

 parts of the forest at Turbo. Constantly chattering and noisy, frequently 

 seen on the ground, and seemed to prefer low bushes. Female entirely black." 

 (Mr. C. J. Wood). 



70. Saurophagus Lictor, (Lichtenstein). 



Lanius Lictor, Licht. Verz. p. 49, (1823), 

 Gray, Genera of B. i. pi. 62. 

 From the Rivers Atrato and Truando. 



71. Tyranncs dominicensis, Brisson. 



Tyrannus dominicensis, Briss. Orn. ii. p. 394, (1760). 

 Aud. B. of Am. pi. 46, Oct. ed. i. pi. 55. 

 From Carthagena. 



72. Tyrannus melancholicus, Vieillot. 



Tyrannus melancholicus, Vieill. Nouv. Diet. xxxv. p. 48, (1819). 

 Spix, Av. Bras. ii. pi. 19. 

 From Turbo, Carthagena and the River Truando. 



73. Myiaechus febox, (Gmelin). 

 I860.] 




144 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



Mupcicapa ferox, Gm. Syst. Nat. i. p. 934, (1788_). 

 Buflf. PL Enl. 571, fig. 1. 

 Falls of tte Truando. 



74. Elaenia cayennensis, (Linnfeus). 



Muscicapa cayennensis, Linn. Syst. Nat. i. p. 327, (1766). 

 Buff. PL Enl. 5G9, fig. 2. 

 From Turbo. 



75. Sayok>'I3 akdosiacus, (Lafresnaye). 



Tyrannula ardosiaca, Lafres. Rev. Zool. 1844, p. 80. 

 Falls of the Truando. "A pair observed about rocks at the foot of the 

 mountains, on the Truando. Had some very pleasing notes and almost a 

 continued song, very shy." (Mr. C. J. Wood). 



76. Myiobius sulphpeeipygius, (Sclater). 



Tyrannula sulphureipygia, Sclater, Proc. Zool. See. London, 1856, p. 296. 

 From the River Truando. 



77. Tykanncla albiceps, (D'Orb. et Lafres). 



Muscipeta albiceps, D'Orb. et Lafres. Mag. Zool. 1837, p. 47. 

 From Carthagena. 



78. Tyranncla albiceps? 



Apparently an accidental variety of the preceding, having the back light 

 yellow or canary color. One specimen from Carthagena. 



79. CYCiiORHYNCHcrs BRBViKOSTRis, Cabauis. 



Cyclorhynchus brevirostris, Cab. Wiegm. Arch. 1847, p. 249. 

 From the River Truando. 



80. Platyrhynchus cancroma, (Lichtenstein), 



Todus cancroma, Licht. Verz. p. 51, (1823). 

 Temm. PI. Col. 12, fig. 2, Sw. Zool. 111. ii. pi. 115. 

 From the Truando. 



" At Camp Toucey, on the Truando, soon after leaving the Atrato. In the 

 high trees and difficult to obtain." (Mr. C. J. Wood). 



81. ToDiROSTRUJi ciNEREUM, (Linuseus). 



Todus cinereus, Linn. Syst. Nat. i, p. 178 (1766). 

 Buff. PL Enl. 585, fig. 3. 

 From Carthagena. 



"Occasionally seen on the ' Popa ' Mountain, near Carthagena, in the 

 bushes and low trees, flying out after insects, which it caught on the wing 

 with much dexterity, and which were very abundant, mostly small Diptera." 

 (C. J. Wood). 



82. ToDiROSTRUM NiGRiCEPS, Sclatcr. 



Todirostrum nigriceps, Sclater, Proc. Zool. Soc. London, 1855, p. 6Q. 

 Proc. Zool, Soc. London, 1855, pi. 84. 

 From Turbo. 



' ' In the drier parts of the forest at Turbo, occasionally seen, but not com- 

 mon. Caught insects of the same description as the preceding, and resembled 

 it in general habits." (Mr, C, J. Wood). 



83. Todirostrum exile, Sclater. 



Todirostrum exile, Sclater, Proc, Zool. Sec. London, 1857, p. 83. 

 Proc. Zool. Soc. London, 1857, pL 125. 

 From Carthagena. 



"In the bushes and low trees, constantly flying after insects, and uttering 

 a single chirp, by which it could easily be traced and shot. Frequently seen 

 in the month of April." (Mr. C. J. Wood). 



(To be continued.) 



[April, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



145 



^fay \st. 

 Dr. Leidy in the Chair. 



Twenty four members present. 



Dr. Darraeh read the following catalogue of Plants collected in flower 

 in the neighborhood of Philadelphia, from February to the 1st of May, 

 jiinounting to sixty- eight species : 



Plants appearing in Flower, in the neighborhood of Philadelphia, from 

 February to May. 



b'vbruary. Symplocarpus foetidus, X. J. 32. Cerastium vulgatum. 



March. Draba verna. 



April. 



I. Randncolace.*. 

 1. Anemone nemorosa. 

 ■J. Hepatica triloba. 

 ?>. Thalictrum anemonoide.=. 

 4. " dioicum. 



Tt. Ranunculus abortivus. 

 (5. '■ fasicularis. 



7. Caltha palustris. 

 •^. Aquilegia Canadensis. 



II. Anonace^. 

 !'. Asimina triloba. 



III. Papaverace.'K. 



10. Sanguinaria Canadensis. 



IV. FUMARIACE^. 



11. Dicentra cucuUaria. 

 1 L Corydalis aurea. 



V. Crucifer.*:. 

 1.';. Dentaria laciiiiata. 

 14. Cardamine rhomboidea. 

 Ij. " pratensis. 



16. " hirsuta. 



17. " V. virginica. 



18. Arabis ludoviciana. 



19. " hirsuta. 



20. Barbarea vulgaris. 

 '1\. Sisymbrium thalianum. 

 '11. Draba Caroliniana. 

 '2.:\. Capsella bursa-pastoris. 



33. *' viscosum. 



VIII. PORTOLACACE.K. 



34. Claytonia Virginica. 

 IX. Limnanthacea;. 



35. Floerkea proserpinacoides. 

 X. Sapindace^. 



SUBORDER III. ACEKINEffi. 



36. Acer dasycarpuni. 



37. " rubruni. 



XI. Rosace^e. 



38. Potentilla Canadensis. 



39. Fragaria Virginiana. 



40. Amelanchier Canadensis. 



XII. Saxifkagace;e. 



41. Saxifraga Virginiensis. 



42. Mitella diphjlla. 



43. Chrysosplenium Americanum. 



XIII. Umbellifer^. 



44. Chaeropbyllum procumbent. 

 XIV. Araliace/*:. 



45. Aralia trifolia. 



XV. RuBIACEiE. 



46. Oldenlandea coerulea. 



XVI. COMPOSIT.«. 



47. Erigeron bellidifolium, in plaeee 

 exposed to the sun. 



48. Antennaria plantaginifolia. 

 50. Taraxacum dens-leonis. 



XVII. Ericacea. 

 ol. Epigaea repens. 



52. Cassandra calyculata. 



XVIII. SCROPHULARIACEvE. 



53. Veronica serpyllifolia. 



54. Pedicularis Canadensis. 



XIX. Labiat/K. 



55. Lamium amplexicaule. 



56. " purpureum. 



1800.] 




146 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



XX. BORRAGINACE/E. 



57. Lithospermum arvense. 



XXI. POLEMONIACE^E. 



58. Phlox subulata. 



59. Pyxidanthera barbulata. 



XXII. GENTIAXACEiE. 



60. Obolaria Virginica. 



XXIII. Aristolochiace.'e. 

 CI. Asarum Canadense. 



XXIV. Laurace^e. 



62. Sassafras officinale. 



63. Beazoin odoriferum. 



XXV. Myricace*. 



64. Comptonia asplenifolia. 



XXVI. Arace^. 



65. Arisaema triphyllum. 



66. Orontium aquaticum. 



XXVII. LlLUACE^E. 



67. Erythroneum Americanum 



XXVIII. MELANTHACEiB. 



68. Hellooias bullata. 

 In all — 68 species. 



In addition, 

 Viola rotundafolia. 

 Acer saccharinum. 

 Diospyros Virginiana. 



May SfJi. 

 Mr. Lea, President, in the Chair. 



Forty-four members present. 



The following papers were presented for publication : 



" Contributions to American Lepidopterology, No. 4," by Bracken- 

 ridge Clemens, M. D. 



'' Notes on American Land Shells, No. 6," and " Descriptions of new 

 species of Pulmonata," by Wm. G. Binney ; and 



^'A list of the fresh-water Shells of Wisconsin," by J. A. Laphani. 



And were referred to Committees. 



]Mr. Aubrey H. Smith read the following extracts from a letter from 

 Mr. Alex. H. Smith, of Solano Co., California, dated March 25th, 1860, 

 on the habits of the Beaver. 



" This winter I have had an opportunity of observing somewhat Ihe habits ot 

 the Beaver. You know that this cunning little animal is famed for his industry 

 and bold engineering. About the middle of our land there is a large slough 

 seventy feet wide and very deep, running back into the country. In the pro- 

 gress of our work, it became necessary to stop it off and lay a large sluice to 

 drain it, which was done in a complete manner. 



At the head of the slough, two miles away, the beavers had their settlement. 

 When the water fell away from their houses and would not return, as usual, 

 the}' seemed to have sent a delegation down to see what was the matter. For 

 several successive mornings we found a dam built across the race leading to 

 ihe sluice, quite skilfully made with sticks and tu!^s, and cemented with mud. 

 One of the men agreed to watch for them with the hope of securing their skins, 

 which are of some value. The night was bright moonlight. Four beaver»! 

 came down examining either bank carefully. One of the party always remained 

 in the water and seemed to be the commander, and would turn from the one to 

 the other to see that each did his duty. At length they reached the dam, still 

 observing the same caution. The three examiners came out and went all over 

 it and into the sluice, chattering the while to their companion in the water. 

 iFinally they seemed satisfied that it was past their skill and went oflF. Since 



[May, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 147 



then we have had no further trouble with them. When the man was asked 

 why he did not shoot, he said, ' he did'nt want to shoot the pretty little cree- 

 ters, he wanted to see what they were going to do.' I could not help being 

 pleased with his humanity and love of science." 



Mr. Lea mentioned that he had recently received a letter from Dr. Showalter 

 of Uniontown, Alabama, in which he mentions that specimens of Physa (^gyrina) 

 Say, which he sent on, were obtained in an open neglected cistern, and in a 

 trough of water supplied by an Artesian well ten miles from the town. Dr. S. 

 expressed his surprise that these Physa should find their homes so soon at these 

 Artesian wells. There are no streams or pools near to these wells, but in a few 

 years after they are bored and water supplied, these shells may with certainty 

 be found. Mr. Lea went on to mention that he had nearly 30 years ago found 

 an undescribed species of Lymncea, accompained by Physa heterostropha Say, in 

 a small artificial pond on the high grounds near to the Falls of Schuylkill, 

 about four miles north of Market Street, now within the limits of this City. He 

 published an account of it in April 1834, in the Trans. Am. Phil. Soc. under 

 the name of acuta. The pond was small and dug out for 1^ to 2 feet deep, 

 simply for the supply of rain water for cattle. Afterwards it dried up and the 

 shells were no longer to be obtained there. He never found this Lymncea in, 

 any other habitat ; but many years subsequently, Dr. Ingalls, of Greenwich, 

 N. Y., near to Lake Champlain, sent him several specimens of what he regard- 

 ed as a new Lymncea^ but which was at once recognised as the acuta, heretofore 

 found only in the one habitat near the Falls of Schuylkill. In the minds of 

 some zoologists a difficulty exists as to existence of species in such constricted, 

 isolated points as mentioned above, but that difficulty in Mr. Lea's mind was 

 done away with under the belief that very young molluscs may be transported 

 on the feet of birds from distant points, or on those of cattle going to drink from 

 one place to another. The idea of spontaneous generation could not of course 

 be for one moment admitted. 



.Mr. Lea also read an extract of a letter from Dr. Lewis, of Mohawk, 

 N. Y., giving an account of some meteorological phenomena, and exhibited 

 a diagram of thermal curves traced by the self-registering thermometer of Dr. 

 Lewis. 



Prof. R. E. Rogers stated that he had recently received a letter from Western 

 Pennsylvania, communicating the intelligence that some of the Petroleum wells 

 had already begun to show a diminished yield of Oil, a fact in confirmation of 

 an apprehension which he had expressed at a former meeting of the Academy, 

 that when the Artesian borings became more numerous in the favorite localities, 

 there was a probability of such a result. 



He regarded the circumstance of even a small reduction in the supply of the 

 oil, from any of the wells, at this early stage of the enterprise in that region, 

 as very significant, and suggestive of the fear that, remunerative as these 

 wells may at present prove to be, it may not be prudent to base permanent 

 calculations upon them. 



In connection with the subject, Prof. Rogers described the approved process 

 by which the illuminating and lubricating Coal Oils are manufactured, an' I 

 detailed the characteristics which seemed to be requisite to render any oil- 

 making material profitably available for the purpose. 



I860.] 




148 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



May 15th. 

 Mr. Lea, President, in the Chair. 



Fifty-three members present. 



The following papers were presented for publication : 



'• Description of a new species of Marginella," by John H. Redfield. 



'• Descriptions of new organic remains from the Tertiary, Cretaceous 

 and Jurassic rocks of Nebraska," by F. B. Meek and F. V. Hayden. 



And were referred to Committees. 



Dr. Fisher read the following extract of a letter from Mr. J. H. 

 Eedfield : 



'• Mr. J. R. Willis announces that he has discovered, in deep water off the 

 coast of Nora Scotia, small specimens of the Waldheimia cranium, hitherto known 

 only from Norther ; Europe. He has also found Littorina litorea abundant upon 

 the rocky shore i near H-ilifax, the specimens being perfectly undistinguishable 

 from English examples." 



Prof. R. E. Rogers exhibited a modification of Mr. Gore's apparatus of the 

 metallic ball revolving in a circle under the influence of a galvanic current. 



The apparatus consists of two bands of sheet brass, secured parallel and 

 within an inch and a half of each other, upon the edge of a board, so as to 

 form a miniature railway, on which the ball may rest. 



To give automatic action to the ball, causing it to transverse the rails alter- 

 nately to and fro, the ends of the bands are bent slightly upwards. By this 

 arrangement, the ball, on approaching the end of its course in one direction, is 

 carried by its momentum a little up the inclination, but gravity soon prevail- 

 ing, its motion is reversed, and continues in its new direction until the same 

 result takes place at the other end. 



The death of Bernard Henry, M. D., who died at sea on the 15th 

 April, was announced. 



On motion of Mr. Vaux, the following resolution was unanimously 

 adopted : 



Resolved, That the thanks of this Society be presented to H. G. De- 

 silver, for the valuable addition to its collection of the fine specimen of 

 the Moose presented this evening. 



May llnd. 

 Vice President Bridges in the Chair. 



Forty-four members present. 



The following papers were presented for publication. 



" Catalogue of Birds collected during a survey of a route for a ship 

 canal across the Isthmus of Darien, by order of the Grovernment of the 

 United States, made by Lieut. N. Michler, U. S. Top. Eng., with 

 notes and descriptions of new species," Xo. 2, by John Cassin. 



" Descriptions of some new species of Cretaceous Fossils from South 

 America, in the collection of the Academy, by Wm. M. Gabb. 



" Descriptions of 14 new species of Schizostoma, Anculosa, and 

 Lithasia," by Isaac Lea. 



And were referred to Committees. 



[May, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 149 



Mr. Aubrey H. Smith remarked, that a few days since, whilst he and 

 another member of the Academy were crossing a sandy bank, partially covered 

 with low bushy pine trees and other undergrowth, near Moorestown, N. J., 

 they came across a black snake of about four feet in length, lying near the 

 edge of the cover formed by the bushes. At the first alarm, the animal, in- 

 stead of escaping along the ground, into the shelter so close at hand, immedi- 

 ately, with a rapid gliding motion, ascended among the branches of the pines, 

 and reaching their somewhat flattened tops, pressed along from one of them 

 to the other at the height of some six or seven feet from the ground, and 

 finally rested at length among the horizontal upper branches. The ascent was 

 made by him in a direction almost perpendicular, solely by projecting the body 

 upward from the ground to the lower branches of the trees, and from them as 

 from a new point of support, to those next higher, not deriving any aid 

 from the upright trunk of the tree, which he did not seem even to toucli. 

 When again disturbed by our approach, he did not descend, but retreated with 

 the same gliding motion along tlie top of the pines. It was not till actually 

 seized by the hand, that, on his release, he betook himself to flight along the 

 ground. 



Mr. Lea called the attentioa of the members to two very remarkable speci- 

 msQs o( Eshiaui, perforating rocks, which he had receatly received from Mr. 

 CallUaud, of Naates, the Egyptian traveller. Ha also exhibited a specimen of 

 Sanistone from Payta in Peru, which contained Pelricola, Lithophagui, &c. He 

 reminded the members that he had presented to the Academy a very remarka- 

 ble specimen, which he had received about two j'ears since from Mr. Gailliaud, 

 being a mass of gneiss which had been perforated by Pholades. When Mr, 

 Gailliaud, who had advocated, contrary to the opinion of most naturalists, the 

 theory that some of the Molluscs bored the rocks by friction and not by de- 

 composition, found that gneiss and granite and other silicious rocks were pene- 

 trated by them, he entirely settled that question, for there are no acids known 

 which will decompose siles. Mr. Lea remarked that the two specimens now 

 on the table were stiil more remarkable. The smaller one consisted of two 

 specimens of Echinus lividus, Lam., which had buried themselves in the solid 

 ^rattj<e, one of them having made a circular hole U inch deep, and 2 inches 

 wide. This specimen came from the granite coast of the Loire-Inferieure. 

 The second specimen consisted of quite a congress of individuals of the same 

 species, imbedded in a solid mass of hard Silurian Sandstone, from the Bay of 

 Douaraenez, in the Department of Finistere. In this beiutifal speciraeu there 

 are five individuals nestled in their circular holes, worked out in this hard stone 

 by the attrition of their teeth, and there are three holes vacated. The specimen 

 is 5 inches by 6^, and there being eight holes in all, their circumferences nearly 

 impinge oa each other. Mr. Gailliaud is entirely satisfied that the boring is 

 purely mechanical, that the five teeth are the instruments of exploitation, and 

 that it is by the percussion of their points on the rocks that these holes are 

 eflFected. The teeth are in form like the rodents, and constantly increase as 

 worn at the outer extremity. He made a hole five millimetres deep and forty 

 in circumference with a bundle of the teeth in an hour. One of the colonies 

 which he examined was in a bay, and contained about two thousand holes, each 

 one filled, and at low water they were but a short distance below the surface. 

 Some of the specimens were not larger than a pea, and probably only five days 

 old. The holes were not all made by the present occupants, most of them pro- 

 bably being very old and having successive inhabitants. Mr. Gailliaud men- 

 tioned in his letter to Mr. Lea that he shortly expected to receive from Guada- 

 loupe an oval Echinus which had made its oval hole in the mass oi Madreporite. 



Dr. I. I. Hayes stated to the Academy, that his success in New 

 York and Boston, in raising funds for his proposed x\rctic Expeditio^i, 

 I860.] 




150 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



had been so great, that if he could succeed in raising $6000 in this 

 city he would be able to sail this year. 



May 29th. 

 Mr. Lea, President in the Chair. 



Thirty-eight members present. 



The report of the Biological Department was presented. 



The following resolution, presented by Dr. Leidy on behalf of the 

 Curators, was adopted, 



Resolved, That the Publication Committee and the Committee on 

 Proceedings, be authorized to exchange as much of the Journal and 

 Proceedings of the Academy as can be spared, for the suite of Palseozoic 

 fossils, which have been offered by Mr. J. N. H. Barris. 



The following papers were, on the report of the Committees to whom 

 tliey had been referred, ordered to be published in the Proceedings. 



Notes on American Land Shells. Ho. 6. 

 BY W. G. BINNEY. 



The Catalogue of the Terrestrial Mollusks of North America, commenced in 

 the Proceedings of the Academy for November, 1858, and continued in the 

 number for July, 1859, is here completed. The list is believed to contain all 

 the species described as inhabiting Mexico. I have followed the systematic 

 arrangement of Drs. Gray and PfeifiFer in grouping the genera, and the de- 

 cisions of the latter in regard to the synonymy. 



Many Central American species will undoubtedly be added to the list when 

 their geographical range is better known. The species of the Pacific coast, 

 included in the first section of the Catalogue, are omitted here, viz.: Nos. 3, 

 7, 8, 11, 23, 25, 35, 37, 39, 40, 41, 42, 43, 45, 46, 47. 



For additional species, changes of nomenclature, &c., &c., of the section of 

 the United States, see Boston Journal of Natural History, vol. vii., and the 

 Remarks on North American Helicidse by Mr. T. Bland, in Annals of New 

 York Lyceum of Natural History, vol. vi. 



252. G. c o r n e 1 a W. G. Binn. vid. 

 202. 



2o2a. G. delicatula {Achatina) 

 ShuttL, Pf. (olim.) 

 Oleacina delicatula Gr. et Pf., Pf. 



253. G. Ghiesbreghti {Achatina) 

 Pf. (oUm.) 



Oleacina Ghiesbreghti Pf. 

 253a. G. Indus lata F^'. 



254. G. Isabellina (Achatina) Pf. 

 {olim), Rve. 



Oleacina Isabellina Gr, et Pf., Pf. 



255. G. Liebmanni {Achatina) Pf. 

 (olim), Chemn. 



Achatina striata Rve. (19.) 

 Achatina Cordovana Pf. (olim.) I Oleacina Liebmanni Gr. et Pf., Pf. 



[May, 



Familia TESTACELLIDiE. 

 Glandina. 



248. G. Candida (Achatina) ShuttL, 



Pf. (olim.) 

 Oleacina Candida Gr, et Pf., Pf. 



249. G. Carminensis Mor. , Ads. 



Gen. 

 Achatina Carminensis Desh, in 

 Fer., Pf. (olim.) 

 " rosea var. Rve. (46 b.) 



Oleacina Carminensis Gr. et Pf., 

 Pf. 



250. G. conularis ( Oleacina) Pf. 

 Achatina conidaris Pf. (olim.) 



251. G. Cordovana (Oleacina) Pf. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



151 



256. Gr. margaritacea (Achatina) 



Pf. (olim.) 

 Oleacma margaritacea Pf. 

 256a. G. monilifera (Achatina) 



Pf. (olim), Rve. 

 Oleacina monilifera Gr. et Pf., Pf. 



257. G. nana {Achatina) ShuttL, Pf. 



(olim.) 

 Oleacina nana Gr. et Pf., Pf. 

 257a. G. Orizabae (Achatina) Pf. 



(olim.) 

 Oleacina OrizabceFf. 



258. G. pulcliella ( Oleacina) Pf. 



259. G. s 1 i d u 1 a (Achatina) Pf. 



(olim), Chemn., Rve., Desk, in 



Per. 

 Polyphemus solidtdus Pf. (olim.) 

 Glandina solidula'Pf., (oMm), Phil. 

 " /oZ/icw/us Gld. (teste Pf.) 

 Oleacina solidula Gr. et Pf., Pf. 

 V a r . Glandina paragramma Mor. 



260. G. Sowerbyana (Achatina) 



Pf. (olim), Rve. 

 Oleacina Sowerbyana Gr. et Pf., 

 Pf. 



261. G. speciosa (Achatina) Pf. 



(olim.) 

 Oleacina speciosa Pf. 



262. G. stigmatica (Achatina) 



ShuttL, Pf. (olim.) 

 Oleacina stigmatica Gr. et Pf. , Pf. 



263. G. Vanuxeniensis Lea, vid. 



206. 



Familia HELIClDiE. 



VlTEINA. 



264. v. Mexicana Beck. 



SiMPULOPSIS. 



265. S. Chiapensis Pf. 



266. S. Cordovanaiy. 



267. S. Salleanaiy. 



Spccinea. 



268. S. b re vis Dunk., Pf, Chemn. 



269. S. undulata Say,Pf., Chemn. 



Helix. 



270. H Ariadnse Pf, vid. 79. 



271. H. Berlandieriana Mor.vid. 



84a. 



272. H. bicinctaiy, Chemn., Phil. 



273. H. b i c r u r i s i^r. 

 I860.] 



274. H. b i 1 i n e a t a P/., Chemn., Rve. 

 H. zonites Rve. 615. 



275. H. caduca Pf., Rve., Chemn., 



=290? 



276. H. C h i a p e n s i s i^^: 



277. H. coactillata Fer. 



278. H. contortuplicata Beck. 



279. H. C o r d o V a n a Pf. 



280. H. Couloni ShuttL, Pf 



281. H. flavescens Wiegfn., Pf. , 



Chemn. 



282. H. fulvoidea Mor., Pf. 



283. H. Ghiesbreghti iVys^, ^:, 



Rve., Chemn., Desh. in Fer. 



284. H. g r i s e 1 a P/: vid. 113, 



285. H. Guillarmodi ShuttL, Pf, 



Chemn., Rve. 



286. H. helictomphala Pf. 



287. H. H i nd s i iy. vid. 117. 



288. H. Humboldtiana VaL,Pf. 



Chemn., Rve., Desh. in Fer.. 



Phil. 

 H. Buffoniana Pf., Phil., Chemn., 



Fer., Rve., Binn. 

 H. badiocincta Wiegm. 



289. H. i m p 1 i c a t a Beck. 



290. H. 1 u c u b r a t a Say, Pf, ner. 



Binn. vid. 275. 



291. H. Me xicana Koch., Chemn.. 



Pf 



292. H. Oajacensis Koch.. Chemn., 



Pf 



293. H. plagioglossa Pf 



294. H. Salle ana iy.,i?i-e., Chemn. 



295. H. stolephora VaL, Pf, 



Chemn., Desh., Rve. 

 Helicella bupthalmus Fer. 

 Helix Lamarkiana (J. Pf. 

 ]Vanina stolephora Pf., Gr. et Pf. 



" bicolor Pf. (olim.) 



296. H. tenuicostata Dunk., 



Chemn., Rve., Pf'.. 



297. H. Texasiana Mor. vid. 170. 



298. H. t rypanomp ala Pf 



299. H. Veracruzensis Pf, 



300. H. zonites Pf, Rve., (excl. 



615.) 

 Nanina zonites Gr. 



BUUMUS. 



301. B. alternatus Say, vid. 182. 




152 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



302. B. attenuatus Pf., Chemn. 



303. B. aurifluus Pf. 



304. B. Cordovanus Pf. 



305. B. coriaceus Pf. 



306. B. costatostriatus Pf. 



307. B. Drouet i Pf. 



308. B. Dunkeri Pf, Rve. 



309. B. emeus Say, Pf 



310. B. fenestra! us Pf, Rve., 



Phil. 



311. B. gnomon Beck. 



312. B. Gruneri JFf., Rve., Chemn. 



313. B. Hegewischi ^., /?re. 



314. B. Humboldti Pf, Rve. 



B. Mexicanus Val., nee Lam. 

 var. /?. 

 var. y. Bulimus primularis Rve., 



Pf (olim.) 

 var. cT. 

 var. i. 



315. B. livescens Pf., Rve., Phil. 



316. B. M a r i fe Albers, =183. 



317. B. Martensi Pf. 



318. B. Mexicanus Pf., Rve., 



Deless., Desk, in Lam. 

 Cochlogena vittata Fer. 

 Orthalicus? Mexicanus Carp. 



318a, B. patriarcha W. G. Binn. 



319. B. p u n c t a t i s s i m u s Less., 



Rve., Pf., Chemn. 

 Clausilia punctatissima Less. 

 " exesa Pot. et Mich. 

 Auricula fuscagula Lea. 

 Pupa septemplicata Muhlf. 

 Bulimus fuscagula Orb. 

 " septemplicatus Pf. 



(olim.) 

 " dentatus King? 

 Cochlodrina exesa Fer. 



320. B. rudis Anton, Rve., Pf. 



321. B. SchiedeanusP/. vid.\%^. 



322. B. serperastrus Say. , Pf., 



Chemn. 

 var. li. Bulimus Liebmanni Pf. 

 " Ziehmanni Rve. 

 " serperastrus var. 

 Chemn. 

 var. y. Bidimus nitelinus Rve. 



323. B. sulcosus Pf., Phil., Rve., 

 B. hyematus Rve. 



324. B. sulphureus Pf. 



325. B. truncatus Pf., Rve., Phil. 



326. B. varicosus Pf., Chemn. 



Spiraxis. 



327. S. a c u s ShuttL, Pf. 



328. S. auriculacea Pf. 



329. S. b iconic a P/. 



330. S. catenata Pf. 



331. S, coniformis ShuttL, Pf. 



332. S. dubia Pf. 



333. S. e u p t y c t a i^; 



334. S, i r r i g u a ShuttL, Pf. 



335. S. lurida ShuttL, Pf. 



336. S. mitraeformis ShuttL, Pf. 



337. S. Nicole ti ShuttL, Pf. 

 Achatina Nicoleti Chemn. 



338. S. nigricans Pf., Shuttl. 

 Achatina nigricans Pf. olim, Rve.. 



Desh. in Fer. 

 Glandina nigricans Pf. olim. 



339. S. o b 1 o n g a iy. 



340. S. parvula Pf. 



341. S. Shuttleworthi Pf. 



342. S. streptostyla Pf. 

 Achatina streptostyla Pf. olim, 



Chemn. 



343. S. turgid ul a Pf. 



Orthaliccs. 

 343a. 0. Boucardi Pf 



344. 0. livens Pf, Bk., Shuttl. 



345. 0. long us Pf. 

 Bulimus zebra p. Pf. (olim.) 



346. 0. undatus Brug. vid. 19G. 



Achatina. 



347. A. a m b i g u a Pf. 



348. A. Chiapensis Pf. 



349. A. Rangiana Pf'., Rve. 



350. A. trochlea Pf, Chemn. 



351. A. trypanodes Pf. 



Cylindrella. 



352. C. apiostoma Pf. 

 352o. C. arctispira Pf. 



353. C. attenuata Pf., Chemn. 



354. C. Boucardi Pf. 



355. C. clava Pf, Chemn. 

 355a. C. ere t ace a Pf. 



fMay. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



153 



356. C. decollata Nyst. (Pttpa), 



P/',, C'hemn. 



357. C. denticulata Pf., Chemn. 

 .358. C. filicosta ShuttL, Pf., 



Chemn. 



359. C. Ghiesbreghti P/.,C%emn. 



360. C. goniostoma Pf., Chemn. 

 360a. C. g r a n d i s Pf. 



361. C. Liebmanni Pf., Chemn., 



Phil. 

 361a. C. Mexicana Cuin. 



362. C. Pfeifferi Menke, Chemn., 



Phil. 



363. C. P i 1 o c e r e i Pf, Chemn., Phil. 



364. C. polygyra Pf., Chemn. 



365. C. teres Menke, Pf, Chemn., 



Phil. 

 365a. C. s p 1 e n d i d a /^: 



366. C. t u r r i s Pf., Chemn. 



Familia AURICULIDiE. 



Melampus. 



367. M. coffea Linn. vid. 229. 



Familia TRUNCATELLIDJi:. 

 Teuncatella. 



368. T. Caribaeensis Sowh. vid. 



238. 



Familia CYCLOPHORIDiE. 



Cyclotus. 



369. C. Dysoni Pf. 

 Cyclostoma Dysoni Pf. (olim), 



Chemn. 

 Cyclophorus Dysoni Pf. (olim), 

 Gr. et. Pf. 



Cyclophorus. 



370. C. Boucardi Salle, Pf. 



371. C. Mexicanus {Cyclostoma) 



Menke, Vgt., Phil., Sby., Chemn. 

 Cyclotus Mexicanus Gr. et Pf., Pf. 

 (olim.) 



TUDORA. 



372. T. p 1 a n o s p i r a Pf. 

 Cyclostoma planospira Pf. (olim.) 



CiSTULA. 



373. C. trochlearis Pf, Gr. et 



Pf. 

 Cyclostoma trochleare Pf. (olim), 

 Chemn. 



I860.] 



Cyclostoma trochlea Pf. (olim), 

 nee Bens. 



Chondropoma. 



374. C. Cordovanum Pf. 

 Cyclostoma Cordovanum Pf. (olim.) 



375. C. truncatum {Cyclostoma) 



Wiegm., Rossm. 

 Chondropoma truncatum Pf., Gr. 

 etPf. 



Familia HELICINID^. 

 Helicina. 

 376 H. brevilabris Pf. 



377. H. Chiapensis Pf. 



378. H. chrysocheila Binn. vid. 



242. 



379. H. chrysocheila ^Au^Z-.P/. 



(nomen tr.) 



380. H. cine t el la ShuttL, Pf. 



381. H. concentrica Pf., Gr. et 



Pf, Chemn. 



382. H. Cordillerse SalU, Pf. 



383. H. delicatula ShuttL, Pf. 



384. H. elata ShuttL, Pf. 



385. H. f 1 a V i d a Menke, So^cb., 



Chemn., Pf., Gr. et Pf. 

 H. Ambieliana Boissy, Pot. et 



Mich. 

 H. trossula Mor. 



386. H. Ghiesbreghti Pf. 

 386a. H. H e 1 i s ae SalU. 



387. H. Lindeni Pf., Chemn., Gr. 



etPf. 



388. H. lirata Pf., Gr. et Pf.. 



Chemn. 



389. H. merdigera Salli, Pf. 



390. H. n 1 a t a SalU, Pf. 



391. H. Oweniana Pf., Chemn., 



Gr. et Pf. 



392. H. Sandozi ShuttL, Pf. 



393. H. s i n u s a Pf., Cliemn., Gr. et 



Pf- 



394. H. tenuis Pf., Chemn., Gr. et 



Pf- 



395. H. t r o p i c a iy. vid. 247. 



396. H. turbinata Wiegm., Pf., 



Mke., Chemn., Gr. et Pf. 

 H. zephyrina var. Sowb. 



397. H. zephyrina Duel., Sowb., 



Chemn., Orb.,^ Gr. et Pf. 

 IT. Ambeliana Sowb. 

 Oligyra zephyrina Mrs. Gray. 




154 PEOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



SCHAZICHEILA. 



398. S. alata {Helicina) Mke., Gr. 



et Ff. 



Schazicheila alata Shuttl., Pf., 

 Ad. Gen. 



399. S. Nicoleti Shuttl., Pf. 



400. S. pannucea Mor. 

 Helicina alata var.? Gr. et Pf. 



Familia PROSERPINIDiE. 



Ceees. 



401. C. eolina (Carocolla) Duclos. 

 Helicodonta eolina Fer. 

 Odontostomus eolimtm Pf. (olim.) 

 Proserpina eolina Pf. (olim.) 

 Ceres eolina Pf., Gr. et Pf. 



402. C. Salleana Cum., Pf., Gr. et 



Pf. 



Descriptions of New Species of Pulmonata in the Collection of the 

 Smithsonian Institution. 



BY W. G. BINNEY. 



Pedipes lirata. T. imperforata, globoso-conica, solida, liris regularibus 

 spiraliter cincta, nitens, straminea ; spira brevis, depressa, apice obtusa ; anfr. 

 3, superi brevi, ultimus 5-6 longitudinis subsequans : apertura semicircularis ; 

 paries aperturalis callonitente induta, et plica elevata, crassa, unca et intrante 

 armata ; labium columellarecallosnm, dentibus 2 approximatis, crassis, acutis, 

 munitum ; perist. acutum, intus callo nitente in medio dentem formante 

 munitum. Diam. maj. 2^, long. 3^ ; aperturse long. 2J, mill. 



Ad promont. St. Lucas poeninsulae Californise collegit J. Xantus (cum Buli- 

 mo proteo Bred., B. pallidiori Sowb. et B. excelso Gould.) 



0^■CHIDIUM Carpestebi. Among the moUusca from the Straits of De Fuca, 

 Mr. Carpenter has detected five specimens of a shelless mollusk, which evi- 

 dently belong to the genus Onchidium. Being preserved in alcohol it is diffi- 

 cult to obtain any more satisfactory specific characters than ihe following : 

 The body is oblong, with its extremities circularly rounded ; the upper sur- 

 face is regularly arched ; below, quite near the edge, the border of the mantle 

 is readily distinguished, most of the under surface is occupied by the broad, 

 distinct, locomotive disk ; the body is uniformly smoke-colored ; in size the 

 individuals vary considerably, the length of the largest being 5, the extreme 

 breadth 3 millimetres. 



A List of the SHELLS of the State of Wisconsin. 

 BY J. A. LAPHAM. 



ViTEixA LiMPiDA, Gould, N. W. Territory, Say. 



SucciXEA AVARA, Say, Milwaukee ! 



OBLiQUA, Say, do. ! 



ovALis, Gould, do. ! 



Helix albolabkis. Say, do. ! 



ALTEENATA, Say, do. ! 



arboeea, Say, do. ! 



CHERSiNA, Say, do. ! 



CLADSA, Say, do. ! 



coNCAVA, Say, N. W. Territory, Say. 



ELEVATA, Say, R. Kennicott. 



FRATERNA, Say, Milwaukee ! 



HiEStJTA, Say, do. ! 



LABYEixTHicA, Say, do. ! 



LiGERA, Say, N. W. Territory, Say. 



LUfEATA, Say, Milwaukee I 



[May, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 155 



MONODON, Rack, Milwaukee ! 



MULTiLiNEATA, Say, do. ! 



(PERSPECTiVA, Say, ? ) 



PROFUNDA, Say, Milwaukee ! 



STEiATELLA, Authony, do. ! 

 Bdlimus harpa. Say, N. W. Territory, Say. 



MARGiNATUs, Say, Milwaukee ! 

 Achatina lubkica, Mill. do. ! 



Pupa armifera, Say, (?) 



coRTicARiA, Say, (?) Milwaukee ! 

 Vertigo ovata, Say, (?) do. ! 



Carychium exiguum, Say, (?) do. ! 

 Helicina occulta, Say, Sheboygan ! ! 



I860.] 



Amnicola limosa, Say, N. W. Territory, Say. 



LUSTRicA, Say, Milwaukee ! 

 Melania depygis. Say, (?) do. ! 



ELONGATA, Say ? (or ELEVATA ?) Milwaukee ! 

 OCCULTA, Anth., Wisconsin, Anthony. 

 Leptoxis isogona, Say, Rock River ! 

 ViviPAEUS DECisus, Say, Milwaukee ! 



suBGLOBOSus, Say, N. W. Territory, Say. 

 Valvata sincera. Say, Milwaukee ! 

 TRiCARiNATA, Say, do. ! 

 LrnvMA CAPERATA, Say, (?) do. ! 



cATAscopicM, Say, N. W. Territory, Say. 

 COLUMELLA, Say, (?) Milwaukee! 

 EMARGiNATA, Say, Madisou, Wisconsin ! 

 FRAGiLis, Say, Milwaukee ! 

 GRACILIS, Say, do. ! 

 juGULARis, Say, do. ! 



MEGASOMA, Say, N. W. Territory, Say. 

 UMBEOSA, Say, do. do. 



Physa ELONGATA, Say, Milwaukee ! 

 HETEROSTROPHA, Say, do. ! 

 Planorbis aemigerus, Say, do. ! 

 BicARiNATUS, Say, do. ! 

 CAMPANULATus, Say, Milwaukee. 

 corpulentus, Say, N. W. Territory, Say. 

 deflectus, Say, Milwaukee 

 EXACUTus, Say, do. 



parvus, Say, do. 



TRivoLvis, Say, do. 



Ancylus diaphanus, Hald. (?) do. 

 RivuLARis, Say, do. 



Unio alatcs. Say, do. 



GRACILIS, Bar. do. 



PRESsus, Lea, do. 



plicatus, Lesueur, Rock and Wisconsin Rivers ! 

 hchoolcraftensis, Lea, Fox River, Lea, 

 cornutus, Bar., Fox River, Barnes. 

 postulosus, Lea, Rock and Wisconsin Rivers ! 

 VERRUCOSUS, Bar., Rock River ! 

 METANEVEus, Raf., Wiscousiu River ' 

 TUBERCULATUS, Bar., do. 



ELEGANS, Lea, do. 



DONACiFORMis, Lea, (?) 




156 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Unio zig-zag. Lea, Wisconsin River ! 

 TRIGONES, Lea, Milwaukee 1 

 OBLiQucs, Lam., Wisconsin River ! 

 jiYTiLOiDES, Raf., Rock River ! 



VENTEicoscrs, Bar., Wisconsin River, Barnes. 

 ELLIPSIS, Lea, Wisconsin River ! 

 CAKiosns, Say, Silver Lake ! 

 LiGAMENTisus, Lam., Milwaukee! 

 LUTEOLUs, Lam., do. ! 



HADiATus, Lam., do. ! 



PARVUS, Bar., Fox River, Barnes. 

 RECTPS, Lam., Wisconsin and Rock Rivers ! 

 IRIS, Lea, (?) 



TExnissiMus, Lea, Milwaukee ! 

 PHASEOLus, Hild., Wisconsin River, Barnes. 

 GiBBoscs, Bar., Milwaukee ! 

 Margaritana complanata, Lea, Milwaukee 

 MARGiNATA, Lea, do. 



rugosa. Lea, do. 



CALCEOLA, Lea, do. 



Anodoxta edextula. Lea, do. 



FERussAciANA, Lea, do. 



iMBECiLis, Say, do. 



FLuviATiLis, Lea, (?) do. 



PLANA, Lea, (?) do. 



KoTE. — The localities observed by me are marked with an exclamation point (!) after the manner 

 of botanists. 



Coutributions to American Lepidopterology.— No. 4. 

 BY BRACKENRIDGE CLEMENS, M. D. 



Saturnla Schrank. 



S. g alb in a. — Antennae luteous. Body and head rather dark brown. 

 Fore wings yellowish-brown, with a rather faint whitish, angulated band at 

 the base. On the discal nervure is a round, black ocellus having a central 

 subvitreous streak, containing a yellow circle, and toward the base of the 

 wing a slender blue crescent. A whitish band crosses the middle of the ner- 

 vules, with a faint wavy one between it and the hind margin. In the apical 

 interspace is a black spot, with a crimson streak to the tip of the wing. The 

 marginal portion of the wing is whitish, and is tinged on the terminal edge 

 with pale yellowish brown. Hind wings similar in color and ornamentation 

 to the fore wings, the ocelli being somewhat smaller. On the under surface, 

 which is similar iu hue to the upper, the faint wavy bands of the fore and 

 hind wings are very distinct. 



Texas. From the Smithsonian Institution. Capt. Pope's collection. 



PiMELA. 



La the fore wings, the costal and subcostal nervures are placed near each 

 other and the exterior margin. The subcostal sends a single marginal branct 

 from near the posterior- superior angle of the disk, delivered to the margin 

 near the tip, and just behind this angle divides into two branches ; the upper 

 one or the apical is simple, and the lower one is subdivided into three ner- 

 vules, the post apical arising near the upper third and the infra post-apical and 

 subcosto-inferior near the middle. The discal nervure arises midway between 

 the origin of the subcosto-marginal branch and that of the apical ; it is acutely 



[May, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 157 



augulated about the middle and sends a false nervule through the disk to the 

 base of the wing, and above this arises the discal nervule. 



The median nervure is four-branched. In place of the fold is a slender, 

 .simple nervure. The submedian sends two branches to the inner margin, one 

 from the upper third and one from the lower third of the nervure. (This may 

 be a malformation. However I can scarcely believe it is one.) 



Hind wings without costal nervure. The subcostal forms an imperfect cell 

 at its base, and near the hind end of the disk sends off an apical branch, which 

 gives rise to an oblique but not angulated discal nervure ; from this arises a 

 false nervule running to the base, and nearly opposite to it a discal nervule to 

 the hind margin. 



Median nervure four-branched. Submedian and internal, simple. 



Body stout and very pilose, woolly. Head rather small : eyes rather large 

 and salient. Antennae, basal joint somewhat tufted, rather longer than the 

 thorax, rather deeply pectinated with the branches decreasing in length to the 

 tip, and both sets directed forward. Labial palpi extremely short, almost ru- 

 dimentary. Tongue none. Abdomen equal in length to the hind wings. 

 Tibiae moderately ciliated exteriorly ; hind tibiae with two very short apical 

 .spurs. 



This genus may, perhaps, be the same as Mr. Walker's L a g o a . 



P. lanuginosa. — Female? The wings are badly worn and denuded. 

 Antennae pale brownish-yellow. Face dark brownish : head and body dull 

 yellow. The anterior tibiae and all the tarsi are dark brownish. The un- 

 denuded portion of the fore wings at the base, is woolly and pale brownish 

 yellow. 



Male ? Antennae yellowish white. Face and the fore legs blackish-brown, 

 the hairs white and all the tarsi blackish-brown toward the ends. Thorax 

 white, very slightly tinted with yellowish. Abdomen rather deep, dull yel- 

 low. Wings white, slightly tinted with yellowish ; fore wings woolly toward 

 the base, with a dark brownish discoloration along the upper part of the disk 

 and the costa adjoining it. 



The female ? of this species was ticketed by the collector Bombyx 1 a n u - 

 g i n s u s , but I have not been able to find any description under this name, 

 nor any that designates the insect itself. 



From the Smithsonian Institution. Capt. Pope's coll. Texas. 



LiMAcoDES Latreille. 



L. la tic la via. — Body and fore wings rather dark ochreous-yellow. 

 Fore wings with an oblique silvery band, inclined toward the base of the wing, 

 from the costa to the middle ol inner margin, and toothed toward the base on 

 the submedian nervure or fold. A rather faint dark reddish brown line, ex- 

 tends from the costal origin of the silvery band to the hind margin beneath 

 the middle. Hind wings pale ochreous-yellow. Abdomen rather reddisb- 

 ochreons. 



Larva. — Outline elliptical somewhat pointed behind ; body flattened, with 

 the sides curving from a central ridge, flattened above. The ridge has a ver- 

 tical elevation at its sides above the body, growing less and less before and be- 

 hind, and terminates in front in a rounded margin and behind in an obtuse, 

 short spine. The body is smooth, with no distinct spined papulaj, but the 

 •^dges of the ridge and the outline of the body are thrown into folds, subcre- 

 nated. The body is thickest in the middle where it curves anteriorly nnd 

 posteriorly. 



The general color of the body is pale green and dotted with namerouii yel- 

 low points. The central ridge is bordered in front with yellow. 



The larva feeds on the underside of the leaf of maple in September, and the 

 imago from it appears in the spring. There is doubtless a spring brood of 

 larvae. 



I860.] 




158 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



Var. laticlavia? Imago, brownish-liiteous, sometimes inclining to yel- 

 lowish. Fore wings with an oblique silvery band from the costa to the mid- 

 dle of the inner margin, toothed on the submedian fold and shaded behind with 

 blackish-brown, with a blackish-brown line from the costal origin of the silvery 

 band to the hind margin beneath the middle. Hind wings dark brown, yellow- 

 ish at the base. 



Three sp. from Robert Kennicott, Illinois. 



Adoneta. 



The characteristics in wing structure are ; that the subcostal nervure is re- 

 mote from the anterior margin, and gives off two marginal branches from the 

 disk one near the middle and one near the end, and then subdivides beyond 

 the disk into an apical and post apical branch. The disco-central nervule 

 arises above the middle of the discal nervure at an angle, whence the nervure 

 curves to the first branch of the median. In the hind wings the costal and 

 subcostal intersect at their bases. The latter is bifid beyond the disk ; the 

 disco-central is continued to the base of the wing, attenuated within the disk, 

 and the discal nervure is straight on the costal side of it, and very oblique on 

 the median side ; with their points of junction separated. Median thret- 

 branched. 



Body rather slender, not pilose. Head small ; eyes quite small. Autennnr 

 rather more than one laalf as long a^ the body. Labial palpi somewhat ex- 

 ceeding the front, rather slender, nearly cylindrical, squamose above and slight- 

 ly hirsute beneath ; third joint very small, the development being chiefly in 

 the second joint. Tongue none. Abdomen much shorter than the hind 

 wings. Fore legs rather slender, tibia? moderately ciliated ; middle and hind 

 tibife thickly and shortly ciliated, with two rather short apical spurs. Wings 

 very much deflexed in repose, almost enveloping the body. Male. — The 

 basal half of the antennae shortly pectinated. Female. — Antenut-e simple. 



A. voluta. — Reddish-brown, somewhat paler in the 9 than the (J. 

 Fore wings with a dingy yellow streak along the base of the inner margin, 

 extended toward the disk above the middle of the wing and on this portion 

 are two or three blackish dots. On the hind portion of the disk is a short 

 black streak. In the (^ there is another short black streak along the median 

 nervure and its last branch, with a curved row of three, black, submarginal 

 spots. The lower streak and the spots are as distinct in the 9 as in the (^. 

 In both sexes there is a subapical dingy yellow patch, lightly bordered behind 

 with whitish. Hind margin spotted with black. Hind wing pale reddish 



brown. 



Larva. Body semi-cylindrical, tapering posteriorly and rounded obtusely 



in front. Nearly smooth, but with a subvascular row of small fleshy, minute- 

 ly spined papulse on each side of the vascular line, three of which placed an- 

 teriorly are separated and distinct, and three approximated on the last rings ; 

 the intermediate ones are minute. The outline of the body above the ven- 

 tral surface, is furnished with a row of minute spined papulae. 



Bright green, with a broad dorsal yellow band containing a reddish purple, 

 one which is constricted opposite the second and third pairs of anterior papu- 

 lae and dilated into an elliptical patch in the middle of the body. This is 

 almost separated from a smaller elliptical patch which is constricted opposit»- 

 the third pair of posterior papulse and ends in a small round patch. The an- 

 terior and posterior papulse are crimson and the intermediate ones green. Thf 

 superventral row of spined papulae are green. 



In September, on the leaf of Apricot. Imago in March. 



Empretia. 



In the anterior wings the subcostal nervure is moderately remote from tli^ 

 external margin sends oflF two marginal branches from the disk, and beyond 



[May, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 159 



it snbdivides, first near the disk, into a subcosto-inferior branch, and then into 

 an apical and post apical branch. The discal nervure is very irregular, and 

 sends from its costal portion a disco-central nervule, whilst the middle of the 

 disk contains a bifid false nervule. The internal nervure is bifid at its base. 

 In the hind wings the costal and subcostal nervures intersect at their bases. 

 The subcostal is bifid near the disk. The costal portion of the discal nervure 

 is angulated, and forms likewise an acute angle in the middle of the disk, 

 whence a false nervule proceeds to the base of the wing, and obliquely joins 

 the median system, giving rise on the median side to a disco-central nervule. 



Body stout or very stout, thorax covered thickly with flat hairs. Head 

 quite small ; eyes small and oval. Labial palpi somewhat exceeding the head, 

 slightly curved, more robust in the (^ than in the ^ ! third joint small and 

 conical, about four times less long than the second and slightly hirsute be- 

 neath. Tongue none. Antennse rather more than one half the length of the 

 body. Abdomen shorter than the hind wings. Fore legs long and rather 

 slender ; fore tibije and tarsi moderately ciliated ; middle and hind tibia? 

 thickly ciliated, with two moderate apical spurs on hind tibiae. Male. — An- 

 tennas, basal half pectinated. Female. — Simple. 



E. stimulea . — Body and fore wings uniform dark ferruginous, with two 

 small subapical white spots, and in the (j^ two more near the base of the wing 

 beneath the median nervure. Hind wings pale reddish-brown. 



Larva. — Body semicylindrical, truncated obliquely before and behind, with 

 a pair of anterior, long, fleshy, subvascular slenderly spined horns and a pair 

 smaller beneath them, above the head ; a posterior similar pair and a smaller 

 anal pair beneath them. The superventral of papulae are rather large and 

 densely spined. After the last moulting the longer horns become moderate 

 in length. 



The portion of the body between the anterior and posterior horns is a fine, 

 bright green color, bordered anteriorly and superventrally by white, with a 

 central, dorsal, oval reddish brown patch bordered with white, which color is 

 again edged by a black line. The horns, papulae and anterior portion of the 

 body are reddish brown, with a small yellow spot between the anterior horns. 

 while the posterior pair are placed in a yellow patch. 



The spines with which the horns are supplied, produce an exceeding pain- 

 ful sensation when they come in contact with the back of the hand, or any 

 portion of the body on which the skin is thin. 



On a great variety of plants ; fruit trees, the rose, Indian corn, (Zea mays) 

 and a number of other plants. 



E. paenulata . — Body dark reddish brown. Fore wings dark rediish- 

 brown along all the borders, with a large, central j>«a-green patch, extending 

 from the base of the wing to the subterminal portion, bordered narrowly on 

 the inner side and behind with white, and deeply indented opposite the mid- 

 dle of the inner margin, where there is a bright brown patch in the reddish 

 brown border. Hind wings yellowish brown. 



I do not know the larval state of this species, and have only two specimens, 

 both apparently females. I can perceive no differences in the structural char- 

 acters of the imago of this and the previous species, and am quite sure that 

 they belong to the same generic group. The discovery of the larval form will. 

 however, determine the question. 



From Mr. Robert Kennicott, Illinois. 



NOCHELIA. 



In the anterior wings, the subcostal nervure is remote from the external 

 margin, and the costal arises from its base ; it gives off a marginal branch 

 near the posterior end of the disk, and another exterior to the disk. The sub- 

 costo inferior branch arises nearly midway between this latter and the post- 

 1860.] 




160 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



apical, which is given off near the tip of the wing. The discal nervnre is 

 doubly angulated, and gives rise to the disco-central nervule at the angle on 

 the costal side ; and from the central, a false nervule to the base of the wing. 

 Median four-branched. Internal bifid at the base. 



In the hind wings, the costal and subcostal have a common trunk. The 

 subcostal bifid beyond the disk. The subcostal and median portions of the 

 discal nervure are much separated at their points of junction with the disco- 

 central, which is continued as a false nervule to the base of the wing. 



Male. — Body stout and very short ; thorax covered with flat hairs. Head 

 and eyes moderate, the latter oval. Labial palpi slightly exceeding the front, 

 rather stout, porrect, third joint very minute. No tongue. Antennje much 

 more than one half as long as the body, with the basal third pectinated. Ab- 

 domen shorter than the hind wings. The middle and hind tibiae rather thick- 

 ly ciliated ; apical spurs of hind tibise, if present, inconspicuous. 



N. tardigrada . — Male. — Body and fore wings rather dark reddish brown, 

 with a small, nearly triangular pea-green patch narrowly bordered with dark 

 brown at the base of the wing beneath the median nervure, slightly excavated 

 behind where it adjoins a bright brown patch. Towards the hind end of the 

 disk, in its middle, is a minute, oval dark brown streak ; two small pea -green 

 subapical spots, the one nearest the costa minute. 



Larva. — Tlie body is elliptical, much flattened above. There is on each 

 side a row of subvascular, minutely spined papulae, of which the three anterior 

 and two posterior are more conspicuous than the rest. The superventral row 

 of papulae are moderate, equal, and form the outline of the body. 



General color very pale green, with dorsal patches of the general hue beau- 

 tifully margined by crimson lines, and crimson, vascular patches, of which 

 those between ihn fourth andjifth, seventh and ejjrAfA pairs of subvascular papu- 

 lae are most conspicuous, although small. All the papulae pale green. 



On the apricot in September. Imago in April. 



I have descriptions of other larvae similar in physical characteristics to the 

 above, but have not succeeded in carrying them through their transforma- 

 tions. 



The genera Pimela, Limacodes, Adoneta, Empretia and Nochelia belong to 

 that most anomalous family Limacodidae. Perhaps some of the groups de- 

 scribed as new have been heretofore established, but I found the effort to 

 identify them from meagre and unsatisfactory diagnoses of the imago an 

 almost futile task. 



Attacus Hiibner. 



The following species have never been described I believe, except by De 

 Beauvois, and as his work is now rather rare and an expensive one, and not 

 accessible to the great body of American entomologists, I insert here de- 

 scriptions of the following insects : 



A. splendida, Bombix splendida, De Beauvois, Ins. en Afrique et 

 en Amer. p. 133, pi. 22, f. 1, 2. 



Dull reddish-brown. Thorax banded with white before and behind. Ab- 

 domen with a white stigmatal band edged above and beneath with black and 

 containing reddish brown spots. Fore wings with a basal white streak ex- 

 tending from the costa to the base of medio-posterior nervule and thence to 

 the inner margin at the base of the wing, bordered toward the base with 

 orange-yellowish and externally by black. The breadth of the disk is occu- 

 pied by a large trigonate vitreous patch, extended behind so as to interrupt a 

 white wavy, narrow band crossing the middle of the nervules and which is 

 bordered internally with black and externally with orange-yellowish. The 

 trigonate patch is edged within by white and externally by black behind and 

 before. Beyond the transnervular band, the wing is brown dusted with 

 blackish and powdered with whitish roseate in the medio-posterior and sub- 



[May, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 161 



median interspaces behind the band. At the tip is a large whitish roseate 

 patch, three contiguous black spots at the end of post apical interspace, with 

 a wavy black, submarginal line. Hind margin luteo-testaceous. Hind wings, 

 trigonate vitreous patch somewhat larger than in fore wings, with a trans- 

 nervular band similar to fore wings, continued around the costa to the base 

 of the wing and the medio-posterior interspace and those adjoining it, 

 powdered with whitish roseate behind the band. Hind margin luteo-testa- 

 ceous with a row of black spots and a dark brown line. 

 From Smithsonian Institution. Capt. Pope's coll. Texas. 



Hypercompa Stephens. 



H. interrupto-marginata. — Bombix interrupto-marginata, Dt 

 Beauvois Ins. Afriq. et Amer. p. 265, pi. 24, f. 5, 6. Head and labial palpi 

 pale orange yellow, the latter with black tips. Thorax pale yellow, with 

 a broad black stripe on the disk. Abdomen orange yellow, with a dorsal 

 black stripe. Fore wings pale yellow, with a black streak along the costa 

 not reaching the tip of the wing, a broad streak of the same hue along 

 the inner margin, sending from the inner angle toward the hind end of the 

 disk, a hooked demi-band ; hind margin black in the middle. Hind wings 

 pale orange-yellow, with a black spot near the inner angle and a larger 

 one in the middle of the medio-posterior interspace and nervule. Legs 

 pale orange-yellow. 



Virginia and Wisconsin. 



TINEIXA. 

 Anoethosia. 



Anterior wings rather narrow, and somewhat lanceolate. The subcostal 

 nervure is nearly straight and gives off from the disk, which is unclosed, 

 three marginal nervules and becomes bifid before the tip. The discal ner- 

 vule is independent. The median is four-branched, its last nervule is bifid 

 and arises opposite the middle of the origins of the 2d and 3d subcosto 

 marginals. The submedian is bifid at its base. 



Hind wings somewhat emarginate behind the tip on the external mar- 

 gin, and rather deeply emarginate beneath the tip. Disk unclosed. Sub- 

 costal nervure bifid from the end of the disk. This discal nervule is trans- 

 ferred to the median side, and the median nervure is three-branched. 



Head and face smooth; vertex elongated, with long loose scales over- 

 lapping in the middle. Forehead rounded. Ocelli very small. Eyes small, 

 round and salient. Antennae about one third less long than the anterior 

 wings, basal joint long and slender, the stalk slightly denticulated beneath. 

 Maxillary palpi extremely small. Labial palpi, smooth, long and porrected 

 their development being almost entirely in the second joint, lohich is sup- 

 plied above with long hairs capable of being erected, although usually decumb- 

 ent, and with the third joint short, very slender, smooth and pointed, arising 

 nearly erectly at the apical third of the second, and is likewise capable of being 

 erected or depressed. Tongue scaled at the base and about as long as the 

 labial palpi. 



A. p unc ti penne 11 a. — Labial palpi and head rather dark ochreous 

 the former dark brownish externally. Antennae ochreous, annulated with 

 dark brown. Fore wings rather dark ochreous, sometimes dusted with dark 

 brownish, with three pairs of blackish brown dots along the fold, the first 

 near the base of the wing, the second rather above the middle and the third 

 near its end. One dot of each of the latter pairs, is in the fold, the other 

 above it obliquely. The costa at the base, and beyond the middle is touched 

 with blackish, with the hinder portion of the wing dotted and dusted with 

 dark brown, especially along the hinder margin. Cilia ochreous. Hind 

 wings shining, blackish gray, cilia the same. Abdomen blackish. 

 I860.] 10 




162 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Gelechia Zeller. 



G. cerealella. — Anacampsis (Butalis) cerealella Harris, Treat, on Ins. 

 2d ed. p. 392 — Head and face dull ochreous. Labial palpi pale ochreous, 

 with fuscous ring at the tip and a slight fuscous spot on the middle of the 

 second joint. Fore wings pale, shining ochreous, with a fuscous streak in the 

 fold toward the base and a few fuscous scales toward the tip of the wing on 

 the margin ; cilia grayish ochreous. Hind wings grayish ochreous, cilia the 

 same. 



This insect has doubtless been introduced into this country from Europe. 

 My own specimens were obtained from the W. D. Porter wheat, distributed by 

 the Patent Office at Washington City. The seed of this wheat was originally 

 procured from Mount Olympus in Asia, and from two heads of this as a be- 

 ginning was grown in the District of Columbia the grain distributed in the 

 years 1854 and 1855. The insect is probably common in the District. 



(t. agrim n iel 1 a . — Labial palpi yellowish. Eyes crimson. Antennae 

 yellowish annulated, with black. Head, thorax and fore wings blackish some- 

 what suifused with a greenish hue, the latter black beyond the middle, with 

 a pale yellow band, somewhat hooked on the costa, at the apical third of the 

 wing. Hind wings blackish-brown, cilia the same. 



The larva may be found about the middle of June, nearly full fed, in the 

 leaves of Agrimony, (Agrimonia Eiipatoria) which it rolls and binds together 

 with silken threads. The body of the full grown larva is colored obscure 

 green, dotted with black dots. Head and shield pale brown. The young 

 larva is flesh-colored and dotted with dark colored dots. The pupa is con- 

 tained in a slight cocoon, sometimes woven between the leaves of its food 

 plant, but usually it is abandoned to construct it. The pupa-case is not 

 thrust from the cocoon at the maturity of the insect. 



The June brood of larva become imagos during the latter part of June or 

 the beginning of July. 



Fore icings scarcehj pointed. Secondary cell faintly indicated. Subcosto- 

 apical vein forked. The last branch of median bifid. Hind wings emarginatc. 

 before the tip and slightly beneath it ; with an intercostal cell at the base. 



G.? flavocostella . — Labial palpi wanting. Head dull reddish yellow. 

 Antennae blackish-brown, yellowish toward the base. Thorax, disk black, 

 front and sides dull yellow. Fore wings black, with a broad, pale yellow 

 costal streak, extending from the base nearly to the tip of the wing, undula- 

 ting from the base to the middle of the wing and dilated into an angle at the 

 apical third, with a faint, yellowish streak produced from the apex of the 

 angle toward the inner angle of the wing. Hind wings dark brown, cilia the 

 same. 



This insect does not, probably, belong to the genus under which it is placed. 

 As the labial palpi are wanting, I include it here from its general structure 

 and appearance, not knowing otherwise where to place it. 



One specimen from A. I. Packard Jr., of Brunswick, Maine. 



The second joint of labial palpi moderately thickened. Hind wings deeply 

 emarginate beneath the tip, which is produced. 



G.? roseosuffu sella . — Labial palpi, second joint whitish spotted with 

 dark fuscous ; the third dark fuscous annulated with two white rings. Head 

 and thorax ochreous, tegulse with a dark-brown spot in front. Antennae 

 dark fuscous, annulated with whitish. Fore wings dark brown, ochreous 

 along the inner margin, where it is suifused with roseate. At the base of the 

 wing is a white spot containing a dark brown dot, and near the base an ob- 

 lique white band. About the middle of the wing is a large white spot or in- 

 distinct broad band, irrorated with dark brownish and tinted with roseate on 

 the inner margin. Near the tip is a costal white spot and a roseate spot 



[May, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 163 



opposite on the inner margin, and a whitish spot at the tip. Cilia brownish 

 gray. Hind wings dark fuscous-gray, cilia fuscous. Feet annulated with 

 white. 



Fore wings scarcelif pointed. Hind wings slightly emarginate beneath the tip, 

 with an intercostal cell at the base. 



G. Rhoifructella . — Head, face and thorax grayish-fuscous. Labial 

 palpi rather dark ochreous. Antenna ochreous, annulated with black. Fore 

 wings grayish-fuscous dusted with dark brown, and with four dark fuscous 

 dots, one near the base of the fold, two near the middle of the wing, (one on 

 the fold and one above it, ) and one on the end of the disk. Near the end of 

 the wing is an indistinct grayish band. Hind wings fuscous, cilia the same. 



The larvae may be found in April or early in May, in the fruit spikes of sumach 

 (Rhus Typhina), where they feed on the crimson hairs and exterior envelope 

 of the drupes, without however eating the drupes themselves. The larvje are 

 concealed in galleries formed in the fruit spikes, and their presence is indicated 

 by strings of "frass" clinging to the exterior. The cocoon is a slight silken 

 web woven amongst the "frass" near the surface. The larva is immaculate, 

 and varies in color, from dark reddish-brown to a pale brown, dotted with 

 rows of darker colored dots, each giving rise to a hair ; the head is brown and 

 the shield blackish. The imago appears about the middle of June. 



Size small. Fore wings rather lanceolate and pointed. Hind wings deeply 

 e,marginate beneath the tip, which is produced. Hie second joint of labial palpi 

 somewhat thickened. 



G.? rubidella . — Head and face ochreous. Labial palpi yellowish white, 

 with two deep fuscous spots on the middle joint, and two blackish brown rings 

 on the terminal one, a narrow one near its base and a broad one near the tip, 

 while the tip is blackish. Antennas deep fuscous annulated with white. 

 Thorax fuscous, deep fuscous in front. Fore wings roseate, dusted with deep 

 fuscous, with a brownish ochreous streak along the inner margin from the 

 base to nearly the middle of the wing, and interrupted about its middle by a 

 roseate hue. At the basal third of the wing is an oblique deep fuscous band, ex- 

 tending from the costa to the fold, and beyond the middle of the costa is a 

 spot of the same hue, joined toward the inner margin by a brownish- 

 ochreous spot. The apical portion of the wing much dusted with deep fus- 

 cous ; cilia ochreous, with a fuscous hinder marginal line. Hind wings black- 

 ish gray ; cilia somewhat paler. Feet rather pale ochreous, spotted with deep 

 fuscous. 



G. flexurella . — Head and face grayish fuscous. Labial palpi, second 

 joint dark fuscous, terminal joint white with a blackish ring at the base and 

 one near the tip. Antennse whitish annulated with dark fuscous. Fore 

 wings grayish fuscous, with a pale grayish band near the apex margined in- 

 ternally on the costa by a blackish brown spot, with another of the same hue 

 about the middle of costa and another on the costa near tlie base. Near the 

 base of the fold is a rather faint dark brownish spot, and the wing is sprinkled 

 with dark brown atoms. Hind wings dark fuscous, cilia ochreous gray. 



Variety ? Fore wings smoky fuscous, with a pale grayish band near the 

 tip, broadest and most distinct on the eosta, margined broadly internally across 

 the wing, with dark brown, with a pale grayish spot between it and a dark 

 brown spot on the middle of costa. In the middle of the wing are two dark 

 brown spots, one on the basal part of the fold and a small one on the costa 

 above it of the same hue. Hind wings dark fuscous. 



G. mimella. — Head and face tawny brown. Labial palpi, second joint 

 dark fuscous, with a whitish ring at its end ; third joint gray with a ring in 

 its middle. Antennae pale fuscous annulated with white. Fore wings tawny 

 brown, with an ochreous band near the tip, margined internally slightly with 

 I860.] 




164 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



dark brown. Along the costa are a few dark brown spots and a few in the 

 apical portion behind the ochreous band. Hind wings dark brown. 



Size small. Fore wings acutely pointed or lanceolate. Hind wings deeply 

 emarginate beneath the tip, which is produced. Labial palpi rather short ; middle 

 joint somewhat thickened uith scales, terminal rather short. 



G.? deter sell a. — Head and face grayish fuscous. Labial palpi pale 

 yellowish-white, with two fuscous patches on the middle joint, a very narrow 

 fuscous ring at the base of terminal joint, a broad one near the tip, with the 

 extreme apex whitish. Antennae grayish fuscous, annulated with dark fus- 

 cous. Fore wings grayish, very profusely dusted with dark fuscous, with a 

 dark fuscous spot on the disk ; cilia ochreous gray. Hind wings pale ochreous- 

 gray ; cilia pale ochreous. Feet annulated with whitish. 



I have found this genus a very difficult one. It is of great extent and in- 

 cludes individuals of a variety of aspects and more or less marked modifica- 

 tions in the labial palpi. The oral parts in the doubtful species correspond 

 so nearly to those of the genus, that I have concluded after much hesitation 

 not to place them in separate groups, notwithstanding the produced apex of 

 the hind wings in some of them, 



SXBOBISIA. 



Fore wings obtuse and rounded behind. The subcostal divides into four 

 branches, with the apical branch simple or forked. The discoidal nervure 

 gives origin to a disco-central branch. The median is four-branched; sub- 

 median forked at the base. Hind wings trapezoidal, not broader than fore 

 wings, with the hinder margin slightly emarginate beneath the tip. Subcos- 

 tal bifid from the discoidal, which gives rise to a disco-central vein. Median 

 three-branched, the two upper branches aiising at a common base. 



Head smooth with appressed scales. Forehead and face rounded. Ocelli 

 large. Eyes oval and obliquely placed. Labial palpi recurved, moderately 

 long ; second joint flattened, smooth with appressed scales ; third slender, 

 smooth and pointed. Maxillary palpi short and distinct. Antenna slender, 

 simple ; basal joint subclavate. Tongue scaled, nearly or quite as long as the 

 thorax beneath. 



The structure of the insects here included, closely approach that of the 

 genus Gelechia, in which I placed them in the first arrangement. I cannot 

 believe, however, that they are members of this group, and have hence re- 

 moved them. The perfect insects are most commonly found in shaded places, 

 on the surface of leaves. They are active and restless in their motions, and 

 turn in circles on their resting places, especially after short flights ; withal 

 they are disposed to be quarrelsome and drive away from the leaves on which 

 they may happen to be enjoying themselves, other " little people" of the 

 shaded wood. 



Fore wings obtusely rounded behind. Subcosto apical branch simple. 31edio 

 posterior vein bifid. 



S. iridipennella . — Head and thorax brown, with a greenish hue ; 

 face whitish beneath. Labial palpi dull silvery. Antennae dark brown. Fore 

 wings dark brown, with a greenish-golden hue. Along the costa are three 

 metallic blue or violet-blue oblique streaks scarcely reaching the middle of 

 the wing, the first is longest and is placed about the middle of the costa, the 

 third near the tip, and with three spots of the same hue beneath the second 

 streak, one in the fold and two in the middle of the wing. In the apical por- 

 tion near the hind margin are three or four parallel similarly hued streaks 

 and at the base of the fold is a violet-blue spot. Hind wings brown, along 

 the base of costa pale yellow, 



[May, 



1 



I 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 165 



Vore wings obtuse, hind margin slightly oblique. Apical branch bifid. 

 S. emblemella . — Head and thorax dark brownish, with a golden hue ; 

 fac« whitish beneath. Labial palpi silvery gray ; third joint fuscous in front. 

 Antennae dark fuscous. Fore wings dark brown, somewhat golden. The 

 costa at the base and a basal band are dull silvery and rather behind the 

 middle of costa is an oblique silvery costal streak and about the middle 

 is a curved costal streak of the same hue. This unites with an oblique 

 silvery streak, from the middle of inner margin, and which becomes diffuse in 

 the middle of the wing. Near the tip at the beginning of the costal cilia, is a 

 small costal silvery spot and a row of spots or short parallel bluish silvery 

 streaks along the hinder margin. Cilia at the tip ochreous, containing a dark 

 fuscous line ; on inner margin dark fuscous. Hind wings dark brown, yel- 

 lowish along the costa ; cilia dark brown. 



Endrosis ? Hiibner. 



Hind wings to'th a medio-discal branch, in addit'on to the discocentral ; terminal 

 branch of median bifid. Transparent patch at base, quite distinct. 



E.? Kennico tt e 1 1 a . — Head and thorax white, with a small dark fus- 

 cous patch on the front of tegulae. Labial palpi white, terminal joint with a 

 dark fuscous ring at the base and one near the tip, with the extreme apex 

 white. Antennae dark fuscous. Fore wings whitish, much dusted with dark 

 fuscous. At the base is a white spot and the adjoining portion of the costa 

 dark fuscous ; behind the middle and near the tip is a whitish spot and oppo- 

 site the latter on the inner margin is a whitish spot nearly joining it, both 

 dusted with fuscous. Apical portion, dark fuscous, with a few whitish spots 

 on the margins ; cilia ochreous. Hind wings gray ; cilia pale ochreous. Feet 

 with tarsi annulated. 



From Mr. Robert Kennicott of North Westfield, 111. Two specimens. 



Ev AGORA. 



Fore wings rather narrow and obliquely pointed at the tip ; inner margin 

 slightly retuse beyond the middle. Discoidal cell closed by a faint, simple, 

 oblique nervure, given off from the subcostal near the third marginal branch ; 

 without disco-central nervule. The subcostal runs almost straight from the 

 base to the tip of the wing, giving off from the cell three marginal branches, 

 one near the middle of the wing and two near the end of the disk ; beyond the 

 disk it sends another branch to the costa, and before the tip becomes bifid send- 

 ing one branch above and another below the tip. The median subdivides into 

 four branches, which are aggregated at their origins, and, except the medio-pos- 

 terior, are long. The submedian is furcate at its base. Hind wings deeply 

 emarginate beneath the tip, which is abruptly produced, although short. 

 The discoidal cell is closed by a slight curved nervure, and is without a disco- 

 central nervule. The subcostal is bifid from the discal nervure, and the median 

 gives rise to a medio-discal nervule which curves much upward ; the last 

 branch of the median much removed from the two terminal branches which 

 are approximated. 



Size small, forehead rounded ; face rather narrow. Ocelli none. Eyes round, 

 moderately prominent. Antennae rather thick, simple, and about one half as long 

 as the fore wings ; basal joint rather slender but short. Labial palpi cylindrical, 

 rather short, middle joint slightly thickened toward its extremity, at least one 

 half longer than the terminal joint, which is somewhat roughened but slender 

 and pointed. Maxillary palpi not perceptible. Tongue scaled at the base, short, 

 not as long as the labial palpi. 



This genus shows some resemblance in structure to Parasia, but I think It 

 is very distinct. 



E. apicitripunctella. — Head, face and thorax oclireous. Labial palpi 

 I860.] 




166 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



ochreous internally, externally dark fuscous ; terminal joint with a fuscous 

 ring at the base and tip, extreme tip ochreous. Antennae dark fuscous, in- 

 distinctly annulated with ochreous. Fore wings brownish ochreous, with three 

 oblique dark streaks from the costa to the middle of the wing, bordered behind 

 with very pale ochreoiis,tYie first near the base, the second about the middle of costa, 

 the third near the tip with its pale ochreous margin extended across the wing. 

 Beneath the third streak are two dark fuscous spots, sometimes margined with 

 pale ochreous. At the tip are three dark fuscous dots, one nearly on the ex- 

 treme apex and two others behind it. Cilia of the tip somewhat dusted with 

 fuscous, the inner margin ochreous. Hind wings rather dark ochreous, cilia 

 the same. 



Teichotaphe. 



Fore wings scarcely pointed, hind margin oblique, costa behind the tip deflex- 

 ed. The discoidal cell is closed and rounded behind. The subcostal nervure sends 

 four veins to the costa behind the tip, the last of which is furcate, and one to 

 hind margin beneath the tip from the cell. The median sends four branches 

 to the hind margin, the last of which is furcate. Hind wings emarginate in 

 the middle of costa, and somewhat emarginate beneath the tip, with an 

 intercostal cell at the base ; subcostal bifid from the discal nervure which sends 

 a central branch to the hind margin. The median is three-branched. 



Head smooth, with appressed scales. Without ocelli. Eyes round and 

 moderately prominent. Labial palpi recurved ; middle joint slightly curved, 

 rather broad, compressed laterally, squamose on the sides and hairy toward 

 the end ; terminal joint slender, smooth, pointed and not so long as the middle 

 joint. Maxillary palpi short and distinct. Antennae rather more than one half 

 as long as the fore wings, somewhat denticulated and microscopically pubes- 

 cent beneath in the male? Tongue scaled at the base, nearly as long as the 

 thorax beneath. 



Middle joint of labial palpi much flattened ; hairy above and below, with diverging 



hairs. 

 T. setosella. — Head, face and thorax rather dark ochreous. Labial 

 palpi, middle joint blackish-brown externally, with the spreading hairs above 

 and beneath at the end, ochreous ; terminal joint ochreous tipped with fus- 

 cus,antennse fuscous, ochreous toward the base. Fore wings dark brown, slightly 

 dusted with pale ochreous. At the base of the costa is a pale ochreous irregu- 

 larly triangular patch, slightly dusted with fuscous, angulated on the upper 

 portion of the fold ; the angle is margined beneath with blackish brown, with 

 a small patch of the same hue between the angle and base of the wing, and a 

 large one behind it extending from the subcostal nervure to the fold. Across 

 the base of the nervules runs a pale ochreous line, on each side of which the 

 wing is nearly uniform dark brown. Hind wings yellowish brown. 



Middle joint of labial palpi without spreading hairs. 

 T. juncidella . — Head, face and thorax dark brown. Labial palpi ochre- 

 ous orange. Antennae dark brown. Fore wings dark brown almost black- 

 ish brown, with an ochreous orange spot on the disk, one on the sub- 

 costal nervure nearer the base, one beneath it in the fold, and one on the end 

 of the disk, all of the same hue. On the costa near the tip is a small ochreous 

 orange spot, and the cilia which are somewhat paler than the general hue are 

 varied with shining ochreous. Hind wings dull yellowish brown. 



Callima, 



Fore wings rather ovate, obtusely pointed. The subcostal nervure sends 

 four nervules to the costa, the last one furcate behind the tip, with both 

 branches above it. From the discal proceeds a disco-central nervule, and the 

 median subdivides into four branches. Submedian furcate at the base. 



[May, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 167 



The hind wings are much narrower and shorter than the fore wings, emargin- 

 ate in the middle of the costa, hind margin obtusely pointed and very oblique. 

 The costal ends in the middle of the wing. The subcostal is attenuated to- 

 wards the base, thediscal gives rise to two nervules and the median is three- 

 branched, the superior and central nervules arising in a short common stalk. 



Head smooth, with hair-like scales. Face quite narrow. Ocelli none. Eyes 

 round and quite prominent. Labial palpi long and recurved ; the middle joint 

 rather slender, smooth with appressed scales, slightly flattened, longer than 

 the third joint, which is slender, smooth and pointed. Maxillary palpi none. 

 Antennae inserted on the front, basal joint smooth and subclavate, slightly 

 denticulated beneath and microscopically pubescent (in the (^ alone?). 

 Tongue scaled at the base and somewhat longer than the anterior coxae. 



This insect, I think, must approach very nearly (Ecophora of Zeller if it is 

 not, indeed, a member of that genus. 



C. a rgent icinct e 11 a. — Head, face and thorax deep reddish orange. 

 Labial palpi, middle joint dark brown, terminal white witli a broad dark brown 

 ring on its middle. Antennse silvery white annulated with blackish. Fore 

 wings yellowish orange. Along the basal margin of the wing from the fold to 

 the basal angle, is a silvery line black margined on both sides, and one 

 from the basal tliird of the inner margin, somewhat curved and not extended 

 to the costa, likewise silvery and black margined on both sides ; the basal 

 portion of the wing included between these lines is deep reddish orange. Near 

 the apical third of the wing is a silvery costal streak, curved and tapering 

 outwardly, slightly dark margined on the costa behind. Opposite this on the 

 inner margin, is a semicircular silvery line, black margined on both sides at its 

 beginning, which terminates in a dark brown spot, white margined exteriorly, 

 at the commencement of the cilia, before which the line becomes grayish sil- 

 very. The portion of the wing included within this line, is deep reddish 

 orange, as well as the apical portion, in which along the hind margin is a row 

 of silvery spots each slightly dark margined. Hind wings fuscous. Feet 

 annulated with white. 



NoJIIA. 



Fore wings rather narrowly ovate-lanceolate, discoidal cell very narrow, long 

 and unclosed, with two independent discal nervules to the hinder margin beneath 

 the tip. The costal nervure is short. The subcostal nearly straight, sending 

 three nervules to the costa from the cell, the first from the middle of the wing, 

 and its last branch bifid, with both branches above the apex. The median is 

 two-branched, the one nearest the base bifid near its end. The submedian is 

 furcate at its base. 



Hind wings narrower than the fore wings, costa nearly straight, but slightly 

 curved ; apex decidedly produced, with the hind margin deeply and circularly 

 excavated beneath it and the anal angle rounded. The discoidal cell is broad 

 a;nd unclosed, with a short independent discal nervule beneath the middle of 

 the wing. Subcostal nervure simple. Median three-branched, the first de- 

 livered to the inner margin rather behind the middle, the last to the rounded 

 anal angle. 



Head smooth, with appressed scales. Forehead and face broad and round- 

 ed. Ocelli none. Eyes oval, not prominent, flattened. Labial palpi short, 

 somewhat reflexed, smooth, rather slender and pointed ; terminal joint ex- 

 tremely short, much slenderer than the middle. Maxillary palpi not percepti- 

 ble. Antennae about one half as long as the fore wings, rather thick, but taper- 

 ing, roughened ; basal joint rather slender and short. Tongue slender, scaled 

 at the base, longer than the anterior coxcP. 



N. li n gul acella . — Head, face, and thorax, dark fuscous. Tegulse 

 srolden. Labial palpi pale yellowish, terminal joint fuscous. Antennae dark 

 I860.] 




168 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



fascous. Fore wings golden yellow. At the base of the costa is a dark golden 

 brown patch, not extended beyond the fold, and margined behind and beneath 

 with iridescent silvery. On the inner margin near the base and extended to 

 the middle of the margin is a rather long patch of the same hue, with an iri- 

 descent silvery internal patch and touched exteriorly with the same hue. A 

 large trapezoidal golden brown patch on the middle of the costa is margined 

 internally by a rather broad iridescent silvery streak, which is slightly dark 

 margined internally, having also an external silvery streak produced in the 

 middle of the wing toward the apex and beneath it, at its anterior angle, a 

 brownish silvery blotch, pointing to the inner margin at the beginning of the 

 cilia. In the apical portion of the wing is a silvery streak, dark margined on 

 both sides behind, pointing into the costal cilia above the apex. The costa 

 from the trapezoidal patch to the tip, is touched with dark brown ; cilia dark 

 brown ; beneath the apex varied with silvery on the base of the cilia. Hind 

 wings dark brownish. 



Trypaxisma. 



Fore wings ovate-lanecolate. The discoidal cell is i-ather narrow and elong- 

 ately oval. The subcostal nervure sends three nervules to the costa, the last 

 from the end of the cell, together with the apical branch which curves at its 

 origin to send off a very sliort and faint di-cal nervure, and at its middle 

 gives rise to a costal branch, becomes furcate behind the tip and delivers a 

 branch above and one below the tip. The median is three-branched, the mid- 

 dle branch being bifid. Submedian furcate at the base. Hind wings narrower 

 than the fore wings, with an intercostal cell at the base ; apex produced, deep- 

 ly emarginate on hind margin and anal angle rounded. The costa is slightly 

 emargiuate in the middle. The discoidal cell broad, and closed by a very faint 

 nervure from the middle of the subcostal, which is furcate near the tip. The 

 discal nervule arises near the median, which is three-branched, with branches 

 rather approximated. 



Size small. Head smooth, with appressed scales. Forehead and face rounded 

 and rather broad. Ocelli none. Eyes oval, modeiately prominent. Labial 

 palpi moderate, arched ; middle joint slightly thickened with scales beneath, 

 terminal as long as the second, smooth, pointed and tapering from the middle. 

 Maxillary palpi not perceptible. Antennae slender and simple ; about one half 

 as long as the fore wings ; basal joint subclavate. Tongue scarcely so long as 

 the labial palpi. 



T. prudens. — Head pale yellowish white dusted with fuscous. Face 

 yellowish white. Labial palpi pale yellowish white, with two dark brown 

 spots on the second joint and two rings on the terminal of the same hue, one 

 at the base and one near the apex Thorax yellowish, dusted with fuscous. 

 Antennae fuscous slightly annulated with yellowish. Fore wings fuscous, 

 tinted with yellowish, with a small ochreous yellow patch on base of costa, 

 one of the same hue on the middle of inner margin, extended to the middle of 

 the wing and a band of the same hue near the tip, iiiuch angulated or nearly 

 interrupted in the middle of the wing Hind wings fuscous. 



The generic characters of this insect approach those of Evagora. The larva 

 lives within a silken web woven on the under surface of the leaves of chestnut 

 oak. It feeds on the cuticles and parenchyma of both sides of the leaf, gaining 

 the upper side by round holes eaten through its substance, and just large 

 enough to admit the body ; of these there were three at various points of 

 the eaten surface. If alarmed the larva immediately retreats through the 

 opening last made to the web on the under surface. The pupa is robust, 

 almost ovoid and is contained in a slight cocoon woven on the leaf on which the 

 larvae feed. I have no description of the larva. It was taken July 22d, became 

 a pupa on the 27th, and an imago on August 8th. 



[May, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 169 



BoTALis Treitschke. 



B. fuscicome 11a. —Head, face, labial palpi and thorax, yellowish fus- 

 cous, antennfe purplish fuscous. Fore wings purplish fuscous, tinted some- 

 what with yelluwish ; cilia purplish fuscous. Hind wings dark fuscous. 



Taken on wing in June. The egg is ellipsoidal ; dirty white; investing 

 membrane thin and covered with punctures, variolate. 

 Fort icings with three subcosto marginal-branches, the apical simple; apex pointed. 



B. flavifrontella. — Head and face pale brownish ochreous. Labia' 

 palpi dark fuscous. Thorax and antennse purplish fuscous. Fore wings pur- 

 plish fuscous, with a yellow basal streak from the base to the middle of the 

 wing, sometimes almost wanting, and the tip of the wing of the same hue. 

 Hind wings dark fuscous. 



Fore icings loith three nerviiles beneath the apical. 



B. matutell a. — Head, face, thorax, and autenna? dark brownish with a 

 purple hue. Fore wings reddish fuscous, with a brassy lustre ; a pale green- 

 ish white spot rather obliquely placed near the middle of the wing and one 

 of the same hue on the inner margin, near the apex. Hind wings dark fuscous, 

 cilia the same. 



Anaksia ? Zeller. 



Fore wings ovate-lanceolate ; with an opaque space on the costa, towards the 

 end of the costal nervure and the iirst subcosto-marginal branch. Discoidal 

 cell rather narrow, closed by a short nervure. The subcostal sends four 

 branches to the costa, the iirst from a point rather behind the middle of the 

 wing, much separated from the second, and the last furcate on the costa be- 

 fore the tip, and a simple branch beneath the latter to inner margin just be- 

 neath the tip of the wing. The median subdivides into four bi-auches, rather 

 approximated at their origins, the medio-posterior branch being nearly opposite 

 to the second marginal. Subcostal furcate at the base. Hind wings trapezoidal, 

 costa refuse, slightly emarginate beneath the tip, hind margin obliquely 

 rounded ; broader than the fore wings. Subcostal nervure rather attenuated 

 toward the base, with a faintly formed intercostal cell, furcate. Discoidal cell 

 broad, closed, with a nervule given off to the hind margin. Median three- 

 branched, medio-posterior branch distant from the others. 



Head smooth, covered thickly with decumbent scales. Forehead broad, al- 

 most spherical ; face rather narrow beneath. Ocelli none. Eyes rounded, 

 moderately jjrominent. Labial palpi, second joint thick, with a very abundant 

 tuft of hairs beneath prolonged in front ; third joint smooth, slender and pointed, 

 as long as the second. Maxillary palpi, short and distinct. Antennae simple, 

 scarcely more than one half so long as the fore wings, slightly denticulated, 

 basal joint smooth. Tongue scaled at the base, about as long as the labial 

 palpi. 



I have three specimens of the insect belonging to this genus, but none of 

 them show the peculiar structure of the palpi of the European male. Whe- 

 ther mine are all females or whether the individuals are generically distinct from 

 the European, as the details of some parts of their structure seems to indicate, 

 must be left for future determination. 



A. ?pruniella . — Head and face pale gray ; thorax dark gray. Labial pal- 

 pi dark fuscous externally and pale gray at the end ; terminal joint gray, 

 dusted with dark fuscous. Antennae grayish, annulated with dark brown. 

 Fore wings gray, dusted with blackish brown, with a few blackish brown spots 

 along the costa, the largest in the middle, and short blackish brown streaks 

 on the median nervure, subcostal, in the fold and one or two at the tip of the 

 wing ; cilia fuscous gray. Hind wings fuscous gray ; cilia gray, tinted with 

 yellowish. 



I860.] 




170 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



The larva was taken June 16th, full grown and alK)ut to transform on the 

 limbs of the plum. Its head is black, body uniform reddish-brown with indis- 

 tinct papul?e, each giving rise to a hair, and with pale brown patches on the 

 sides of the 3d and 4th segments ; shield and terminal prologs, black. One 

 specimen had secreted itself under a turned up portion of the old bark of the 

 trunk. The cocoon is exceedingly slight, and the tail of the pupa is attached 

 to a little button of silk. The pupa is ovate, abdomen short and conical, 

 smooth ; color, dark reddish-brown. I do not know on what part of the tree 

 the larva feeds. 



Stilbosis. 



Fore wings narrow and pointed. Discoidal cell open, elongated and very 

 narrow. Subcostal nervure, with three nervules to the costa from the cell, and 

 an apical branch which sends a nervule to the casta from its middle, andishijidat 

 the tip of the wing ; the apical branch is nearly absolete from the third to the 

 fourth marginal branch. Beneath the apical is adiscal nervule, which is obso- 

 lete posteriorly from its middle. The median is three-branched ; the submedi- 

 an, simple. Hind wings setaceous ; the discoidal cell is open and moderately 

 broad toward the base of tiie wing. The subcostal is obsolete toward the base 

 and bifid at the tip of the wing ; a disced nervule beneath it is obsolete posleriorly 

 from its middle. The median subdivides into three separate branches. 



Head and face perfectly smoo'h. Ocelli none. Eyes small, oval and visible 

 in front. Labial palpi moderate, somewhat curved, slender, smooth and 

 pointed ; terminal joint as long and as thick as the middle, and very acute at 

 its apex. Antennae rather thick, simple, somewhat roughened, rather short ; 

 basal joint smooth and subclavate. Tongue short. 



This genus is nearly related to Cosmopteryx of Hiibner, but the labial pal- 

 pi are much less developed, and the tongue much shorter. 



S. tesquell a. — Head and face grayish-silvery, having a greenish splen - 

 dent lustre. Labial palpi ochreous. Antennae dark fuscous. Fore wings fus- 

 cous-golden, tinted along the base of costa with reddish-violet; with three 

 patches of raised scales, one in the fold near the base, one behind the middle of 

 the wing, and one near the tip on the inner margin, the latter two are large and 

 extended nearly to the costa. In certain lights these raised patches are golden 

 internally, while the spaces of the wing between them become dark fuscous and 

 with the light striking the wing from the tip the patches are dark ochreous 

 and the last is extended obliquely into the costa as a streak of the same hue. 



The tip of the wing is reddish- violet, in certain lights dark fuscous. The cilia 

 are very long and are extended along the hind margin beyond the middle of 

 the wing ; fuscous tinged with reddish. Hind wings dark fuscous, cilia the 

 same. 



Laverna Curtis. 



Fore wings pointed, oblique along the hinder margin, with five veins be- 

 neath the furcate apical vein. Discoidal cell narrow. Submedian/Hrca'e at 

 each end; basal fork long, the apical fork shorter. Hind wings rather refuse 

 on the costa before the tip ; hind margin rounded or cimetar-shaped from base 

 to apex. The subcostal is obsolete toward the base, simple, and runs into the 

 costa before the tip. Discoidal cell closed, with a discal vein furcate at the 

 tip. Median three-branched, the last two arising on a common base. 



Head smooth ; backhead or vertex elongated. Forehead obtuse, advanced ; 

 face retreating. Eyes oval, visible in front. Labial palpi moderately long, 

 curved, smooth but rather loosely scaled ; second joint flattened toward its end, 

 subclavate ; the third short, smooth and pointed. Antennae rather more than 

 one half as long as the fore wings, simple, setaceous, basal joint subclavate. 

 Tongue sparingly scaled, extremely short, not one-half as long as the labial 



palpi. ^-- 



[May, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 171 



L. luciferella. — Head and face silvery, tinged •with yellowish. Back- 

 head dark fuscous. Labial palpi silvery ; middle joint dark fuscous from the 

 base to the middle, the terminal joint with a minute fuscous dot at its base. 

 Antennffi dark fuscous. Fore wings dark reddish fuscous, with a large, rather 

 faint bluish silvery patch at the base, one on the middle of the costa, and a 

 carved band near the tip of the wing, of the same hue. On the fold beneath the 

 costal patch, is a patch of raised scales, and another on the inner margin join- 

 ing the band behind. Exterior to the band the wing is touched with ochreous, 

 containing in the middle a short dark fuscous streak, sometimes a pale yel- 

 lowish white streak margined with dark fuscous, and on the costa just behind 

 it, is a short pale yellowish-white streak, margined exteriorly with dark fus- 

 cous. Apical portion of the wing is dark fuscous ; cilia of inner margin fus- 

 cous. Hind wings fuscous, cilia the same. 



Fore wings slenderly and shortly caudate at the tip. Apical vein with 

 a long fork, with an independent discal nervure beneath it. Median four- 

 branched. Submedian with a long basal fork, no apical fork, but with the 

 end of the fold thickened. Labial palpi recurved, thickened at the end of 

 second joint with loose scales ; the third rather long, smooth and pointed. 

 Tongue nearly as long as the anterior coxse. 



L. Eloisell a. — Head, face and thorax silvery white, the latter spotted 

 with blackish. Labial palpi white, with a dark brown spot on the middle of 

 second joint, and two dark brown rings on the third, one at the base and 

 one at the tip. Antennfe tawny yellow, white at base. Fore wings silvery 

 white, with a small tuft of tawny scales at the basal third of the fold, and a 

 larger patch of the same hue on the inner margin at the end of and above the 

 fold. Between the tufts, is an oblique dark brownish costal streak, nearly 

 joined at an angle by another of the same hue in the middle of the wing and 

 exterior to the first tuft ; the fold is tinted with golden yellow. Exterior to 

 the second tuft is a blackish-brown streak, which becomes diifuse behind and 

 above, while the apical portion of the costa to the slender apex of the wing is 

 golden yellow. At the base, beneath the fold, is a blackish-brown spot, and 

 another of the same hue beneath the fold equidistant from the first and the 

 first tuft of scales, and on the costa midway between these latter is a rather 

 faint dark brownish spot. Cilia yellowish gray. Hind wings tawny-grayish, 

 cilia ochreous. 



Chrysocorys Curtis. 



C. Ery th riella. — Head, face and thorax fuscous, with a greenish-brassy 

 hue. Labial palpi ochreous, terminal joint fuscous. Antennae bronzy-yellow- 

 ish fuscous. Fore wings reddish-fuscous, with a greenish-brassy hue ; cilia 

 fuscous. Hind wings reddish fuscous, cilia the same. 



Specimens of this insect reared by myself were much smaller than those 

 taken on the wing, had less of the brassy hue and were nearly uniform grayish 

 fuscous, but I have no doubt it is the same insect. 



The larva feeds on the fruit racemes of Sumach. It tapers anteriorly and 

 posteriorly, incisures deep, segments elevated in the middle, with a single 

 row of transversely arranged epidermic points on each ring, each one giving rise 

 to one or two rather stiff hairs ; abdominal legs very slender and short, termi- 

 nal placed posteriorly. Head with a few hairs, ellipsoidal, pointed rather 

 small, and pale brown. The body is uniform dark green. '• Frass " scarlet. 



The cocoon was woven on the outside of the raceme. It was ovoid, and ap- 

 peared to consist of coarse silk and but a single thread, being woven so as to 

 leave large meshes, enabling one to see the pupa through it distinctly. At 

 maturity the pupa case is thrust forth. The pupa is pale green, with the 

 head-case distinctly separated from the case of the thorax. The length of the 

 larva is about two lines, of the pupa about one and a half. 



The larva may be taken in July ; the imago appears early in August and 



I860.] 




172 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



may be taken on wing at this time in the neighborhood of the food plant of 

 the larva. 



Elachista Treitschke. 

 I would beg here to call the student's attention to the fact, that the genus 

 described in Paper No. 3, January, 1S60, under the name Cosmiotes, is the same 

 as the present one. I much regret the existence of this error ; it is not, how- 

 ever, necessary to state how I came to be misled. 



Median ve'u of hind nings two-branched. Apical vein of fore icings with a 

 branch from its middle to the casta, bijid at the tip; median vein two-branched. 



E. prjematurella . — Head, face and labial palpi grayish fuscous. An- 

 tennas rather dark fuscous. Fore wings fuscous with a purplish hue. Rather 

 behind the middle of the wing is a white band, silvery-hued, and near the 

 tip a costal and opposite dorsal spot of the same hue. Extreme apex of the 

 wing white, with a row of dark brown atoms in the cilia, which are fuscous. 

 Hind wings bluish-gray, cilia fuscous with a reddish hue. 



The imago may be taken on wing early in April. 



Brexthia. 



Fore wings almost cuneiform, rounded behind. The subcostal nervure sends 

 a vein to the costa from the middle of the cell, and subdivides into two branches 

 at the point of junction with the discoidal nervure ; arising from this are Jive 

 veins to the hinder margin, and the median nervure subdivides into two 

 branches at its tip. The subcostal is furcate at its base. The hind wings are 

 broad, irregularly oval. The subcostal is simple. The discoidal does not 

 join it, gives rise to three veins to the hind margin, and is deflected towards 

 the base. The median is two-branched, the upper one being bifid about its 

 middle. 



Head smooth. Forehead and face rounded. Ocelli large. Eyes oval, and 

 rather prominent. Labial palpi moderately long, rather slender, pointed and 

 somewhat squamose ; the terminal joint shorter than the second. Antennae 

 slender, simple in the O , rather densely ciliated in the (^. Tongue slightly 

 scaled and very short. 



The insect belonging to this genus, which is nearly allied to Glyphipteryx 

 of Hiibner, has the curious habit of strutting about broad leaves in shaded 

 places, with its fore wings somewhat spread and the hind wings turned 

 forward at right angles to the costa of the fore wings, so as to display the 

 surface of the under pair. It is easily recognized by this characteristic alone. 



B. pavonacella . — Head and thorax fuscous; face whitish beneath. Labial 

 palpi white, with three fuscous rings, one at the end of the second joint, one at 

 the base of the terminal and one near its tip. Antennae fuscous, anuulated with 

 white. Fore wings fuscous, mottled with whitish, especially on the middle of 

 the wing, with a fuscous spot on the middle of the disk, ringed with whitish. 

 Near the hinder margin is a black band, not extended to the costa nor the 

 inner margin, with two sharp indentations of the general hue internally, and 

 containing on its middle a streak of brilliant scarlet-blue metallic scales. 

 Along the costa are one or two faint spots of the same hue. Hind wings 

 fuscous, whitish at the base and along the costa, with a short white line 

 near the hind margin, above the inner angle of the wing, and a rather faint 

 scarlet-blue metallic hued band on the hind margin, from near the tip to 

 beyond the middle. The under surface of both wings show a metallic hued 

 subterminal band. 



Imago on wing in July and August. 



PiGBITIA. 



Fore wings narrow, elongated, pointed and very slightly retuse on the costa 

 before the tip. The subcostal sends to the costa, beyond the apical third of 



[May, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 173 



the wing, a long, thick vein which arises behind the middle, and subdivides 

 into three branches at its tip, the apical being forked, with one of its branches 

 delivered to the tip, and the other to the costa before it. The discoidal cell 

 is much elongated and narrow, and sends to the hinder margin a disco-central 

 branch. The median ia three-branched at its tip, all of which are short, and 

 the two upper veins arise on a common stalk. Submedian is forked at the 

 base, with the lower branch nearly obsolete. Hind wings narrowly lanceolate, 

 broad at base, with interior basal angle rounded. The subcostal vein is simple, 

 and extended to the tip. Discoidal cell closed by a very faint nervure, giving rise 

 to a simple nervule. Median nervure is three-branched, the last two branches 

 from a common base. 



Head smooth, with decumbent scales, slightly retracted. Forehead broad 

 and rounded ; face, with the scales spreading out at the base of the tongue, so 

 as to make it nearly equally broad. Eyes oval, vertically placed. Ocelli 

 small. Labial palpi very short, smooth ; first and second joints rather thick ; 

 terminal joint pointed, slender, aud as long as the second. No maxillary 

 palpi. Antennae setaceous, simple in the V, microscopically pubescent in 

 the (^, rather more than one-half as long as the fore wings ; basal joint 

 flattened and expanded into a small eye-cap, with cilia in front. Tongue 

 scaled, rather longer than the thorax beneath. 



I have but one male, which is without labial palpi. With the aid of good 

 lenses, I cannot make out whether they have been broken off, or whether 

 they are naturally obsolete. Otherwise, the head is in most perfect condition. 



The genera Zelleria and Ocnerostoma are congeneric with this in the 

 neuration of the wings, especially the hinder pair in the latter genus. 



P. lati capi te 11a. — Head, face and thorax shining tawny fuscous. Labial 

 palpi dark fuscous. Antennae fuscous, basal joint tawny fuscous. Fore wings 

 dark fascons, with a rufous tinge, sprinkled with white, especially toward the 

 tip, with an indistinct whitish baud behind the middle of the wing ; cilia pale 

 rufo-fuscous. Hind wings greyish-fuscous ; cilia the same. 



Parasia ? Duponchel. 



Fore wings lanceolate. The subcostal nervure sends three veins to the 

 costa, the first from the middle of the cell, and an apical branch which 

 delivers from its middle a branch to the costa, and is forked before the tip, with 

 one of the branches above and the other beneath it. The discoidal cell ia 

 closed, but gives rise to no nervule. The median fan-branched, more 

 separated than in Evagora, and all the branches long. Submedian is forked 

 at the base. Hind wings with the apex produced. The submedian is forked 

 beyond the discal nervure, which gives rise to a disco-central branch. The 

 median is three-branched. 



Head smooth, with loose, decumbent scales. Forehead advanced ; globose, 

 face retreating. Ocelli small. Eyes oval, vertically placed, but little visible 

 from the front. Labial palpi rather short, recurved, smooth, with appressed 

 scales ; second joint thick, subclavate ; third joint short, very acuminate. 

 Maxillary palpi sbort, distinct. Antennse simple, setaceous, one-third less 

 long than the fore wings. Tongue clothed with scales, scarcely as long as the 

 anterior coxse. 



This insect and Evagora apicitripunctella certainly approach each 

 other closely in structure ; nevertheless, they are very diflFerent in appearance. 

 The hind wings ditfer from those of Parasia in the produced apex being 

 straight, and slightly in neuration. 



P. ? subsimella . — Head, face and thorax ochreous-fuscous. Labial palpi, 

 second joint dark brownish, ringed with whitish at its tip ; third joint white, 

 terminal half black. Antennae dark fuscous, basal joint striped with yellowish 

 in front. Fore wings dark ochreous-fuscous ; along the costa from its middle, 



I860.] 




174 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



and toward the tip, brown ; and in the latter part much sprinkled with whitish. 

 On the middle of the costa is a short, yellowish white streak, and in the 

 apical third of the wing is an oblique line of the same hue, meeting in the 

 middle of the wing another of the same hue from the inner margin. At and 

 beneath the tip is a blackish brown spot, and in the cilia a dark fuscous line. 

 Hind wings dark ochreous, cilia the same. 



Depkessakia Haworth. 



D. Lecontella. — Head and face ochreous. Labial palpi ochreous; 

 second joint varied externally with fuscous ; third joint with a slight fuscous 

 ring at the base, and one near the tip. Antennae fuscous. Thorax ochreous, 

 with two blackish brown dots before. Fore wings dark ochreous, with dis- 

 persed blackish brown dots throughout the wing, two of which, aboi^t the 

 middle of the median nervurt*, are more conspicuous than the others ; 

 cilia rather pale ochreous. Hind wings pale grayish-ochreous, cilia the same. 



This is the only true Depressaria I have found thus far ; but we have other 

 nearly allied species, which differ from it in the structure of the labial palpi. 

 In this respect they resemble somewhat Gelechia rufescens of Europe, but 

 differ from the genus to which it belongs in several particulars. I think 

 they must form a group intermediate between Depressaria and Gelechia. 



I have now nearly worked up my collection of Tineina, and would beg those 

 who feel interested in the continuation of these studies, to aid me in extending 

 my knowledge of species, by contributing collections from their various neigh- 

 borhoods. 



Description of a new species of Marginalia. 

 BY JOHN H. REDFIELD. 

 Marginella roscida Redf. 



T. rhombico-ovata, polita, cinereo-lutescente, albido giittulata, versus 

 apicem albido-lineatu ; labis albo, crasso, reflexo, extus fulvo trimaculato, 

 intvis subdenticulato ; spira modica ; anfractus quatuor exhibente ; anfractu 

 ultimo angulato, juxta aperturam calloso ; columella quadriplicata. 



Shell rhombic-ovate, polished, light grayish brown, minutely flecked with 

 white ; towards and upon the spire the white spots tend to be confluent in 

 longitudinal lines. Lip white, well thickened, obtusely reflected, extending a 

 little upon the penultimate whorl, slightly denticulate within, and bearing 

 three brown spots, one at its junction with the spire, a second about midway, 

 and the third near the base. Spire moderate, apex slightly colored, with 

 about four whorls visible ; the last whorl is distinctly shouldered, a little be- 

 neath the suture and near the aperture shows a vitreous deposit. Columella 

 with four plaits ; upper ones somewhat oblique, lower ones more so. Aper- 

 ture yellowish brown within. Length 0-57 in. (14 millim.) ; breadth 0*32 in. 

 (8 millim.) 



Habitat. Coast of South Carolina. 



Remarks. The general form of this shell is nearly that of M. apiclna Menke, 

 and the spots upon the outer lip give it a further likeness to some varieties of 

 that species, but the spire is more developed, and the last whorl more dis- 

 tinctly angular than is usual in M. apicina, while the latter never displays 

 the minute white flecking of the species under consideration. This last feature 

 is common also to M. guttata^ M. nivosa and M. pruinosa, but all these are 

 quite different in form and in development of spire. 



[May, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 175 



Descriptions of new Organic Remains from the Tertiary, Cretaceous and 

 Jurassic Bocks of Nebraska. 



BY F. B. MEEK AND P. V. HAYDEN. 



The following new species of fossil moUusca, belong mainly to the collections 

 brought from Nebraska by the expeditions under the command of Lieut. G. K. 

 Warren, of the U. S. Top. Engrs. in 185S-7 and 8. More extended descriptions 

 of these and the other species already described by us from that regioa, together 

 with remarks, comparisons, and fall illustrations, will appear in Lieut. War- 

 ren's final report. 



TERTIARY SPECIES. 



GASTEROPODA. 



Helix Evansi, A. & H. — Shell small, suborbicular, spire depressed ; volu- 

 tions four and a half to five, obliquely compressed, or a little convex above, 

 rounded on the outer side, and very convex below, the most prominent part being 

 near the umbilicus, concave within, and each embracing on the upper side about 

 half, and below nearly the whole breadth of every succeeding inner turn ; sur- 

 face unknown ; umbilicus rather small, or about equalling the breadth of the 

 widest part of the outer volution ; aperture nearly obovate, its longer diameter 

 being directed outward and upward. Height, 0-10 inch ; breadth, 0-17 inch. 



Named in honor of Dr. John Evans, Geologist, of Oregon. 



Locality and position. Estuary beds at the mouth of Judith River. 



Plasorbis vetulus, M. & H. — Shell discoidal, much compressed, spire slight- 

 ly concave, umbilicus shallow, very little broader than the concavity on the 

 upper side, and rather more than one-third wider than the outer whorl, show- 

 ing about half of each inner turn ; volutions three and a half to four, compress- 

 ed convex above and below, the upper side being a little more convex than the 

 other, and sloping slightly outward from near the inner margin, rather distinct- 

 ly angular around the outer side, a little below the middle, and deeply concave 

 within for the reception of each succeeding inner whorl; sutures well defined, 

 though not very deep ; aperture sub-cordate, approaching an irregular hastate 

 outline, very slightly oblique, having its longer axis in the direction of the 

 greatest breadth of the shell ; surface apparently nearly smooth, or only show- 

 ing obscure marks of growth. Greatest breadth 23 inch ; height 005 inch. 



Locality and position. Upper part of the Tertiary forming the Bad Lands of 

 White River. 



Planorbis Leidyi, M. & H. — Shell small, subdiscoidal ; spire flat, or a little 

 concave ; volutions scarcely three, increasing rather rapidly in size, not embrac- 

 ing on the upper side, inner ones almost entirely hidden by the last turn below, 

 all convex above, rather narrowly rounded on the upper outer side, ventricose 

 and rounded below ; suture will defined ; umbilicus small, or less than half the 

 breadth of the outer whorl, deep and scarcely permitting the inner volutions to 

 be counted ; surface marked by fine delicate lines of growth ; aperture sub- 

 circular, or obliquely a little oval, flnttened or somewhat concave on the inner 

 side. Greatest breadth, 0-22 inch ; height, 0-09 inch. 



Named in honor of Prof. Jos. Leidy of Philadelphia. 



Locality and position., same as last. 



CONCHIFERA. 



Sphjericm planum, M. & H. — Shell rather small, broad oval or subcircular. 

 much compressed ; extremities more or less regularly rounded, the posterior mar- 

 gin being sometimes faintly subtruncate ; base semi-oval in outline ; cardinal 

 margin rounding gradually from near the middle ; beaks very small, compressed, 

 and scarcely extending beyond the hinge margin, nearly central ; surface marked 



I860.] 




176 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



by fine irregular, obscure, concentric striae. Length, 0-38 inch ; height, 0-32 

 inch ; convexity 0.08 inch. 

 Locality and position. Near the mouth of Grand River on the Upper Missouri. 



Sph.«;ricm recticardinalk, M. & H. — Shell of medium size, transversely 

 subelliptical, rather compressed, very thin; anterior side rounded ; base form- 

 ing a regular seraielliptic curve; posterior extremity obliquely subtruncate above, 

 and rather narrowly rounded below ; cardinal margin long and straight ; bealis 

 very small, compressed, and projecting but slightly above the hinge, located 

 nearly half way between the middle and the anterior end ; surface marked by 

 moderately distinct, irregular lines of growth. Length, 0-55 inch ; height, 0'3(3 

 inch ; breadth, 0-24 inch. 



Locality andpositio7i, same as last. 



Cyrena (Corbicula ?) cYTHERiFOBMis, M. & H.-Shell broad trigonal ovate, vary- 

 ing to subcircular, rather thick and strong; extremities more or less rounded; 

 base semiovate, usually more prominent before than behind the middle ; dorsal 

 outline sloping from tbe beaks, the anterior slope being more abrupt than the 

 other, and slightly concave, while the posterior is convex ; beaks rather ele- 

 vated, moderately gibbous, located in advance of the middle ; surface marked 

 by fine lines of growth, which sometimes show a very slight tendency to gather 

 into small irregular concentric wrinkles. Length, inches ; height, inch,; 

 thickness, inch. 



Locality and position. Estuary beds, near mouth of Judith River. 



CRETACEOUS SPECIES. 



CEPHALOPODA. 



Genus Phylloteuthis, M. & H. 



Phylloteuthis subovatus, M. &. H. — The specimens on which we propose to 

 found this genus and species consist of the expanded portion of the pen or 

 eladius. This organ seems to have been corneous, and is thin, very wide or 

 subovate in form, a little concave on the under side, and convex above. From 

 behind the middle it narrows towards the front, the outline of the lateral mar- 

 gins being convex, while the posterior end is more or less obtusely angular. 

 The shaft is broken away in our specimens, but that portion of it extending 

 backward and lorming the midrib of the expanded part, is narrow, prominent, 

 and rather sharply carinate above, while on the under side it is merely repre- 

 sented by a narrow groove. The lateral expansions are crossed a little ob- 

 liquely backward and outward, at an angle of about 65° from the midrib, by 

 numerous slender, ridged parallel stria;, which are very nearly straight, or very 

 slightly curved backward near the outer margins. Length of expanded part, 

 exclusive of the shaft, 1-55 inch ; breadth of do., 0-82 inch. 



Apparently near the Liassic genera Beloteutkis aud Teudopsis, or at any rate 

 to species that have been, witti doubtful propriety, ranged in these groups. 



Locality and position. Moreau River, in formation No. 5. 



Helicoceras angulatdm — Of this shell we have seen but a single nonseptate 

 frat^ment, 2-78 inches in length, with a diameter of 1-50 inches at the larger end, 

 and 1-37 inches at the smaller. It is rounded, or subcylindrical, and makes a 

 broad (sinistral?) spiral curve, in such a manner that if continued around, the 

 volutions would be disconneeted, and encircle an umbilical cavity apparently 

 more than three times their own breadth. The surface is ornamented by dis- 

 tinct angular costae, which pass around the whorls obliquely and support two 

 rows of nodes on the lower outer side, where they sometimes bifurcate. Septa 



Locality and position. Head of south branch of Shyenne River, in the upper 

 part of formation No. 4, of the Nebraska series. 



[May, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 177 



Ammonites placenta, var. intercalaris. — It is possible this shell maybe spe- 

 cifically distinct from .4. ^tecenia of Dekay, but it agrees with that species so 

 nearly that we are in doubt about the propriety of considering it entitled to 

 rank as a species. It differs externally from the typical forms of Dekay's 

 species, in being rather less compressed, and in having a slightly larger umbili- 

 cus, while instead of a single series of scarcely perceptible transversely elon- 

 gated prominences on each side, it has a row of small, but distinct nodes a 

 little less than one-third of the way across from the dorsum, and another more 

 prominent series near the umbilicus. It also differs in having a row of small, 

 pinched, alternating nodes on each of the two dorsal angles. 



With these external differences, however, the septa of the shell under con- 

 sideration, are so very similar in all their details to those of A. placenta, that 

 we are at present inclined to regard it as a variety of that species. 



It is also worthy of note, that the form before us is closely related to A. syr- 

 talis of Morton, being in fact almost exactly intermediate between that shell and 

 A. placenta, as well in form and external ornaments, as in the characters of its 

 septa. Its exact relations to these species can perhaps only be settled by a 

 careful comparison of a more extensive series of specimens than has yet been 

 obtained ; in the mean time it may be made known as a subspecies, under the 

 name A. placenta, var. intercalaris, and should it prove distinct, it may take the 

 latter as a specific name. It seems to attain a large size. Our specimen, which 

 consists of inner septate whorls, is 5-70 inches in its greatest diameter, with, 

 a thickness or convexity of 1-62 inches. 



Localittf and position. Sheyenne River, in the upper part of Formation No. 4 

 of the Nebraska Cretaceous scries. 



Ammonites Vermilionensis, M. & H. — Shell compressed discoidal ; umbilicus 

 large, very shallow, and showing about four-fifths of each inner whorl ; volu- 

 tions five or more, rather sharply carinated around the middle of the dorsum, 

 and ornamented on each side by nearly straight, simple, moderately strong, 

 obtuse costae, which show a tendency to develope nodes at each extremity. 

 Greatest diameter 1-05 inches ; convexity about 0-29 inch. 



Locality and position. Mouth Vermilion River, in Formation No. 2, of the 

 Nebraska section. 



Scaphites Warreni, M. & H. — Shell small, transversely subovate, moderately 

 compressed, rounded on the dorsum ; umbilicus rather small; volutions sub- 

 cylindrical, height and breadth nearly equal, increasing gradually in size ; non- 

 septate portion of last turn slightly compressed laterally, and deflected from 

 the regular curve of the others, so as to become nearly or quite disconnected 

 at the aperture. Surface of the inner whorls ornamented by numerous small 

 costae, which increase chiefly by implantation, and all cross the dorsum very 

 regularly without arching; on the sides of the non-septate outer chamber, 

 about every fourth or fifth one of the costis is much more prominent and 

 sharper than the others, and extends quite across to the umbilical side, while 

 those between die out, or coalesce with the others at various distances. 



Length 1-45 inches ; height about 1-22 inches ; breadth 0-57 inch. 



Locality and position. Near the Black Hills, in formation No. 2 of the Ne- 

 braska Section. 



Scaphites nodosos, var. plenus. — We suspect the noble specimen we here 

 propose to notice provisionally, as a variety of Dr. Owen's Scaphites nodosus, may 

 prove to belong to a distinct species, but as we are not yet fully satisfied on 

 this point, it is perhaps better to regard it, for the present, as a marked variety 

 of Dr. Owen's species ; and should further comparison demonstrate that it is 

 entitled to rank as a species, it can take as a specific name that by which we 

 have designated it as a variety. It differs externally from Dr. Owen's figureof 

 /S. nodosus, in being greatly more ventricose, and shorter in proportion to its 

 height, while its inner rows of nodes are much smaller and nearer the umbili- 



I860.] 11 




178 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



cus. There are also some differences in the details of the septa, which cannor, 

 however, be readily explained without figures. It is likewise nauch larger than 

 the specimen represented by Dr. Owen, or any individuals of that form we have 

 seen, its length being 4-57 inches ; height 3-87 inches, and its breadth 2-5.3 

 inches. 



Locality and position. On Yellow Stone River, 150 miles above the mouth, in 

 the upper part of formation No. 4 of the Nebraska Cretaceous Series. 



GASTEROPODA. 



Apoehhais parva, M. & H. — Shell small, conical, subfusiform : spire moder- 

 ately elevated, and acute at the apex ; volutions six or seven, separated by a 

 small but rather distinct suture, and having around the middle a single series 

 of very oblique, flexuous folds, or node-like costae, which do not extend to the 

 suture either above or below : last whorl having just below the row of nodes, 

 a small but well defined revolving angle ; surface marked by very obscure 

 lines of growth, and fine, closely set, revolving strise. Length about 0-28 inch : 

 breadth of body whorl, 0-15 inch ; apical angle a little convex, divergence 33". 



Locality and poeiiio7i, same as last. 



Aporrhais sublevis, M. & H. — Shell conical, or subfusiform ; spire elevated ; 

 volutions seven or more, convex, and separated by a rather distinct, though 

 not deep suture ; last one convex above, and abruptly contracted below, having 

 £ (single ?) small, revolving angle, which passes around to the suture, but is 

 •n*t seen on the succeeding turn above. Surface polished, and marked by 

 moderately distinct, arcuate lines of growth, which are crossed by rather ob- 

 scure revolving lines, nearly equalling the spaces between, on the spire, but 

 more .dietant. with sometimes a few indistinct, irregular, very fine, parallel 

 stride be!t\'sreen on the body whorl ; aperture and lip unknown. Length about 

 0'54 incih:; breadth of body whorl, 0-26 inch; apical angle slightly convex, 

 divergence 31°. 



Locality ojBd position. Yellow Stone River, Upper part of No. 4, Nebraska 

 section. 



Dentalidm PAfCPEECCLCM, ^I. & H.— Shell small, arcuate, slender and taper- 

 ing gradualh'; section circular; substance comparatively thick; surface 

 6mooth,out showing under a magnifier extremtly fine, obscure lines of growth, 

 which pass around somewhat obliquely. Length (of an incomplete specimen, 

 measuring frooi the apex,) 0-36 inch; diameter of same at apex 0-03 inch, do. 

 at larger extremity O-O-o inch. 



Locality and position. Moreau River, formation No. 5 of the Nebraska section. 



Cylichna bcitcla, M. & H. — Shell small, rather thick, narrow, subelliptical, 

 or subcylindrical : spire entirely hidden ; summit truncate, and occupied by a 

 comparatively large umbilicoid depression ; aperture very narrow, moderately 

 arched, and equalling the greatest length of the shell; umbilical region 

 slightly impressed ; inner lip reflexed upon the columella, which seems to be 

 slightly twisted, so as to form a small indistinct fold at its base ; surface 

 marked by fine, obscure lines of growth, which are crossed by impressed, re- 

 volving striae, separated by spaces about twice or three times their own 

 breadth, near the middle of the outer whorl, but becoming much more closely 

 crowded towards the extremities. Length 0-24 inch; breadth 014 inch; 

 widest part of aperture 0-07 inch, breadth of same near upper extremity, only 

 02 inch. 



Locality and position. Jloreau River, No. 5 of the Nebraska section. 



CONOHIFERA. 



Teredo selliformis, M. & H. — Shell small, subglobose ; posterior side nar- 

 rowly rounded above, gaping, and having a broad, more or less angular notch 



[May, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 179 



below ; antero-ventral side provided with a large hiatus, formed by a similar, 

 but deeper rectangular notch, which extends from the base nearly half way up 

 to the beaks, and back almost to the middle of the valves ; base, between the 

 anterior and posterior notches, extended downward in the form of a narrow 

 prolongation, which curves under, and is the only part of the ventral borders 

 of the two valves that come in contact ; beaks elevated, gibbous, incurved, 

 and located between the middle and the anterior margin ; surface ornamented 

 by small concentric lines, which are curved, and deflected parallel to the great 

 irregularities of the free borders, and crossed by two distinct radiating grooves, 

 one of which passes from the back part of the beaks obliquely downward and 

 backward to the corner of the posterior notch, and the other nearly directly 

 downward to the extremity of the ventral prolongation. Length, of a medium 

 sized specimen, 0-16 inch ; height 0-14 inch ; gibbosity 0-13 inch. 



Locality and position. Fort Clark, on the Missouri, in formation No. 5. 



Maotra Siouxknsis, M. & H. — Internal cast oval-subtrigonal, moderately 

 gibbous ; anterior border narrowly rounded ; posterior margin subangular at 

 the extremity; base forming a nearly semiovate curve, the most prominent 

 part of which is in front of the middle ; dorsal outline declining with a slightly 

 convex outline behind the beaks, and distinctly concave in front of them ; beaks 

 prominent, rather gibbous, very nearly central ; pallial impression provided 

 with an oval sinus, which appears to be a little narrower behind than in the 

 middle, rounded at the anterior extremity, and extending nearly in a horizontal 

 direction, about three-fourths of the way towards the middle of the valves. 

 Length 1*55 inches ; height, 1-22 inches ; convexity 0-76 inch. 



Locality and position. Near mouth of Big Sioux River, in formation No. 1, 

 of the Nebraska Cretaceous series. 



Mactra gracilis, M. & H. — Shell small, rather thin, ovate-subtrigonal, 

 moderately gibbous, anterior end rounded, a little broader than the other ; 

 base forming a broad semiovate curve, being usually more prominent towards 

 the front than behind ; posterior margin rather narrowly rounded, or sub- 

 truncate ; beaks moderately prominent, and located slightly in advance of the 

 middle; escutcheon comparatively large, lance-ovate in form; surface marked 

 by distinct, regular lines of growth : hinge unknown. Length 0-49 inch ; 

 height 0-38 inch; convexity about 0-24 inch. 



Locality and position. On Yellowstone River, 150 miles above the mouth, in 

 beds containing a mingling of the fossils of No. 4 and 5. 



Tkllina? FORMOSA, M. & H. — Shell subelliptical, very thin, moderately con- 

 vex ; anterior extremity a little wider than the other, but very narrowly round- 

 ed ; posterior side subangular at the extremity ; base forming a semi-elliptical 

 curve; dorsum sloping gradually, with a slightly convex outline in front and 

 rear; beaks small, and located almost exactly in the middle; surface marked 

 by rather obscure, irregular lines of growth, and extremely fine radiating stria;, 

 only visible by the aid of a magnifier ; hinge unknown. Length 0'67 inch ; 

 height 0'40 inch; convexity (of a right valve) about 0-13 inch. 



Locality and position. TWenty miles below mouth of Cannon Ball River, 

 formation No. 5. 



Cyprina humilis. M. & H. — Shell ovate, gibbous, thick, very oblique ; ante- 

 rior margin scarcely extending beyond the beaks, abruptly rounded below ; 

 base semiovate in outline, most prominent towards the front, sometimes a little 

 contracted behind ; posterior extremity rounding obliquely, with a broad curve 

 from the dorsum to the postero-basal extremity, which is narrowly rounded ; 

 beaks very oblique, almost overhanging the anterior border, declining and 

 turned a little inwards at the extremities ; umbonal slopes prominent from near 

 the beaks obliquely backward to the lower part of the anal margin ; surface 

 marked by distinct, subimbricating lines of growth. Length 1*70 inches ; 

 height 1-34 inches; breadth 1-30 inches. 



I860.] 




180 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Locality and position. North branch of Cheyenne River, near Black Hilla, 

 formation No. 5. 



AvicuLA 8DBGIBB0SA, M. & H. — Shell (left valve) obliquely rhombic-oval, 

 or ovate, moderately gibbous ; anterior margin contracted, or a little concave 

 in outline just below the wing, from which point it descends obliquely back- 

 ward, with a broad, gently convex sweep, into the base ; posterior border rathw 

 broadly rounded below, distinctly sinuous under the wing above ; hinge line 

 straight, a little less than the height of the shell. Anterior wing forming an 

 equilateral triangle, compressed, and rather distinct from the umbo; posterior 

 wing having the form of a very inequilateral triangle, the posterior side of 

 which is much the shortest, compressed, moderately distinct from the more 

 gibbous part of the valve, forming an angle of about 50° at the extremity ; beak 

 small, slightly elevated above the hinge, gibbous, located a little less than one- 

 third the length of the hinge, behind the anterior extremity ; posterior muscu- 

 lar scar large, oval or ovate, and located a little above the middle. Height 

 1-40 inches ; length, measuring from the postero-basal extremity obliquely 

 forward and upward to the point of the beak, 1''72 inches ; length of hinge 

 1-32 inches. 



This species resembles A. linguiformiSjEYaa? & Shumard, but is much broad- 

 er and less oblique, while its postero-basal margin is more broadly rounded. 

 Our specimen is a cast, and does not show the surface-markings, excepting on 

 the anterior wing, where the marks of growth are rather distinct and subim- 

 bricating. 



Locality and position. Long Lake, above Fort Pierre, formation No. 5. 



Inoceramos cdneatus, M. & H. — Shell oblong-ovate, moderately gibbous in 

 the umbonal and anterior regions, very nearly or quite equivalve, rather thin ; 

 buccal side descending from the beaks ai first, almost at right angles to the 

 hinge, after which it gradually curves obliquely backward and downward, so 

 as to pass by a graceful sweep into the base ; posterior side long, compressed, 

 broader than the other extremity, and regularly rounded ; ventral border form- 

 ing a semiovate curve, the most prominent part of which is behind the middle ; 

 hinge very long, and nearly straight. Beaks very nearly terminal, or located 

 almost directly over the anterior border, oblique, rising little above the hinge, 

 equal, and but slightly incurved. Surface marked by rather distinct, more or 

 less regular undulations. Length 3-90 inches; height 2-75 inches ; convexity 

 2 inches. 



Locality and position. Yellow Stone River, 150 miles above the mouth, in 

 beds containing a blending of the fossils of formations Nos. 4 and 5. 



Inoceramds Vanuxemi, M. & H. — Shell large, subcircular or broad oval, 

 equivalve, and much compressed ; anterior margin rounded ; base forming a 

 nearly semicircular curve, being a little more prominent behind than in front ; 

 posterior side longer and wider than the other, broadly rounded or subtruncate ; 

 hinge (of moderate length ?) straight, and forming an angle of about 70" with 

 the axis of the umbones. Beaks small, compressed, scarcely rising above the 

 hinge, not distinctly incurved, located a little in advance of the middle. Sur- 

 face ornamented by regular, distinct, angular, but not very prominent concen- 

 tric undulations, which are separated by rather shallow depressions. Length 

 of the largest specimen we have seen, 10 inches ; height of do. 9 inches. 



Locality and position. White River above the Bad Lands, in upper part of 

 formation No. 4. 



Inoceramus Balchii, M. & H. — Shell large, subquadrate, or broad oblong- 

 oval, much compressed; anterior side truncate obliquely forward above, at an 

 angle of about 115° with the hinge, rounding into the base below; ventral 

 margin forming a broad curve, the most prominent part of which is a little 

 behind the middle ; posterior side longer and wider than the other, broadly 

 rounded, (sometimes subtruncate above ?) ; hinge line rather long, forming an 



[May, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 181 



angle of about 60° with the umbonal axis. Beaks narrow, rising somewhat 

 above the hinge, scarcely incurved, located about halfway between the middle 

 and the most prominent part of the anterior border. Surface ornamented by 

 very slightly elevated, broadly rounded, rather irregular undulations, which 

 become entirely obsolete on large specimens below the middle, and on the pos- 

 terior as well as the lower anterior regions. Attains a diameter of 3J to 4 

 inches. 



Named after Lieut. G. T. Balch, of U. S. Ordinance — who discovered the 

 only specimens of the species we have seen. 



Locality and position. White River above the Mauvaises Terres. 



IsocKRAMDs suBCOMPBESsus, M. & H. — Shell rhombic-oval, compressed, very 

 thin ; anterior side rounded below the beaks ; base forming a long semiovate 

 curve, the most prominent part of which is behind the middle ; posterior side 

 long, very narrowly rounded and prominent below the middle, subtruncate ob- 

 liquely forward above ; hinge of moderate length, forming an angle of about 40° 

 with the umbonal axis. Beaks small, scarcely rising above the hinge, located 

 nearly over the anterior extremity. Surface ornamented by somewhat regular 

 concentric undulations. Length 2-55 inches ; height TTO inches. 



Locality and position. Mouth of Judith River, formation No. 1 ? of Nebraska 

 section. 



LvocERAMDS AViccLoiDS, M. & H. — Shell compressed, often broad ovate or 

 subcircular when young, but becoming obliquely oval or subrhomboidal in 

 outline as it advanced in age; substance thin and fragile. Anterior and basal 

 margins forming a broad gentle curve; posterior extremity narrowly rounded 

 below, ascending obliquely forward, with a slightly convex outline above, and 

 meeting the hinge at an angle of about 120°. Hinge margin long, straight and 

 compressed, so as to form an alate expansion behind. Beaks nearly terminal, 

 scarcely rising above the hinge, not gibbous or distinctly incurved. Surface 

 ornamented by more or less regular concentric undulations and obscure lines 

 of growth. Length from the beaks obliquely backward and downward to the 

 postero-basal edge, about 3 inches ; height from base to hinge, 2-30 inches. 



Locality and position. Little Blue River, formation No. 3. 



Anomia obliqua, M. & H. — Shell thin, broad oval, subcircular, or somewhat 

 irregular, and more or less oblique; upper valve rather convex, beak nearl}' or 

 quite marginal, and placed nearer the anterior side, moderately gibbous ; sur- 

 face marked concentrically by fine obscure lines, and small wrinkles of growth. 

 Length about 1-32 inches ; breadth 1-16 inches. 



Locality and position. Near mouth of Niobrara River, in formation No. 3 of 

 the Nebraska section. 



Anomia scbtrigonalis, M. & H. — Shell subtrigonal, approaching subcircular, 

 extremely thin and fragile ; upper valve moderately convex ; anterior side sub- 

 truncate, with a slightly convex outline, rounding abruptly at its junction with 

 the ventral margin ; posterior side obliquely truncate from the beak, and very 

 narrowlj' rounded at its connection with the ventral border, provided with a 

 broad, oblique, rounded fold ; pallial margin nearly straight, or but slightly 

 convex; umbo marginal and rather prominent. Lower valve nearly flat, or 

 compressed, and more irregular than the other. Surface marked by small, 

 irregular, concentric wrinkles, and very obscure lines of growth. Length 1'57 

 inch; breadth 1-14 inch. 



Locality and position. Bijou Hill, on the Missouri, formation No. 4. 



OsTREA iNORNATA, M. & H. — Shell Small, narrow subovate, rather thin, 

 attached by the whole under surface of the lower valve ; beaks pointed and 

 curved usually to the left side; under valve conforming to the contour of the 

 surface to which it adhered, moderately concave, area small and narrow ; upper 

 valve rather convex, having its beak less pointed than that of the other valve ; 



I860.] 




182 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



surface smooth, or only marked by very obscure lines of growth, with sometimes 

 a few very small, irregular, nearly obsolete radiating wrinkles near the lower 

 border. Length about 1-40 inches; breadth 0-87 inch. 



Locality and position. Great Bend of the Missouri, below Fort Pierre — lower 

 part of No. 4, Nebraska section. 



JURASSIC SPECIES. 

 COXCHIFERA. 



Pholadomy.a. hcmilis, M. & H. — Shell transversely oblong-oval, ventricose ; 

 posterior end rounded, and more or less gaping; base nearly straight along the 

 middle : anterior end very short, narrowly rounded below the beaks; dorsum 

 nearly parallel with the base, slightly concave in outline ; escutcheon lanceo- 

 late, and bounded by an obscure angle on each side ; beaks depressed, gib- 

 bons, incurved, and located in advance of the middle; surface ornamented by 

 small, regular, concentric wrinkles, crossed by a few raised lines, or obscure, 

 distant, radiating costae, extending from the back part of the beaks, to the pos- 

 terior, and postero-basal margins. Length about 106 inch ; height 0-52 inch; 

 breadth 0-52 inch. 



Locality and position. Lower Jurassic series, at the south-west base of the 

 Black Hills. 



Myacites Nebrascensis, M. k H. — Shell elongate, subelliptical, rather convex ; 

 extremities narrowly rounded, the posterior end being sometimes apparently 

 obliquely subtruncate. and more or less gaping above ; base nearly straight, or 

 very slightly sinuous along the middle, rounding up gradually towards the 

 ends; dorsum behind the beaks concave in outline; posterior umbonal slopes 

 D-ibbous, or prominently rounded ; antero- ventral region a little compressed, 

 or contracted from near the middle of the base obliquely forward and upward ; 

 beaks moderately elevated, gibbous, incurved, and located near the anterior 

 end : surface ornamented by concentric striae, and small, very obscure, irregu- 

 lar parallel wrinkles. Length about 1-43 inch ; height 069 inch ; breadth 0-59 

 inch. 



Locality and position. South-west base Black Hills. Jurassic. 



Thbacia? suBLEvis, M. & H. — Shell narrow oblong-oval, rather compressed ; 

 anterior end narrowly rounded : base nearly straight along the middle, round- 

 incr up toward the ends ; posterior side longer than the other, rounded or 

 slightly truncate, and apparently gaping a little at the extremity; dorsal her- 

 der concave in outline, and nearly horizontal behind the beaks, declining more 

 abruptly in front; beaks moderately elevated, the right one being usually a 

 little higher than the other, located in advance of the middle ; posterior um- 

 bonal slopes prominently rounded ; surface concentrically striate : hinge and 

 interior unknown. Length 1-17 inch; height 060 inch ; breadth about 0-32 

 inch. 



Locality and position. Near the middle of the Jurassic deposits at the south- 

 west base of the Black Hills. 



Thbacia? arccata, M. <fe H. — Shell small, transversely snbovate, more or 

 less arcuate, moderately convex ; extremities rather narrowly rounded, and a 

 little o^aping ; cardinal margin sloping from the beaks, anterior slope more 

 abrupt than the other ; beaks rather elevated and unequal, that of the right 

 valve being higher than the other, located in advance of the middle ; posterior 

 and anterior umbonal slopes prominent; sides of the valves flattened or slightly 

 concave in the central region near the base ; surface of cast retaining small 

 concentric marks of growth ; hinge and interior unknown. Length, 62 inch ; 

 bei»ht. 0-37 inch ; thickness or convexity, 0-23 inch. 



Locality and position. Same as last. 



Cabdicm Shcmabdi, M. & H. — Shell small, subcircular, rather gibbous ; an- 



tMay, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 183 



terior side rounded ; base more broadly rounded ; posterior side obliquely sub- 

 truncate above and passing with an abrupt curve into the base below ; hinge 

 margin rather short, and sloping slightly from the beaks, which are moderately 

 elevated, gibbous and nearly central ; posterior umbonal slopes angular; sur- 

 face of cast retaining only traces of small radiating costae or lines on the pro- 

 minent posterior umbonal slopes, and flattened postero-dorsal region; hinge 

 and interior unknown. Length 0-44 inch; height 0-37 inch; thickness 0-32 

 inch. 



Named in honor of Dr. George G. Shumard, of the Texas Geological Survey. 



Localitrj and position. Jurassic, beds south-west base of Black Hills. 



Tancredia? .«;quilateralis, M. & 11. — Shell very nearly equilateral, mode- 

 rately convex ; anterior end rather narrowly rounded ; base forming a broad, 

 regular, seraielliptic curve; posterior end slightly truncate on the upper oblique 

 slope, narrowly rounded below, apparently not gaping ; beaks depressed, loca- 

 ted a little in advance of the middle; surface of cast retaining traces of con- 

 centric strii« ; hinge and interior unknown. Length 1 inch ; height 0-64 inch ; 

 breadth about 0-lG inch. 



Locality and position. South-west base Black Hills — Jurassic. 



Tancredia Warkenana, M. & H. — Shell small, trigonal ovate, moderately 

 convex, anterior half a little narrower and more compressed than the other, 

 narrowly rounded at the extremity ; base forming a broad gentle curve ; pos- 

 terior side subtruncate, angular, or abruptly rounded below; dorsum sloping 

 from the beaks, the anterior slope being slightly concave in outline, and the 

 other nearly straight, or a little convex; beaks elevated, but not extending 

 much above the cardinal edge ; posterior umbonal slopes prominent, or sub- 

 angular ; surface and hinge unknown. 



Named in honor of Lieut. G. K. Warren, U. S. Top. Engineers. 



Length OoO inch ; height 0-33 inch ; breadth about 014 inch. 



Locality and position. Same as last. 



Astarte fragilis, M. & H. — Shell small, rather broad oval, thin, moderately 

 compressed; anterior end rounded; base nearly straight along the middle, 

 rounding up regularly in front, and more abruptly behind : posterior extremity 

 obscurely subtruncate; dorsum straight and slightly declining behind the 

 beaks, which are small, obtuse, rather depressed, and located a little in advance 

 of the middle; posterior umbonal slopes prominent; surface ornamented by 

 distinct, irregular concentric wrinkles and fine parallel striffi ; hinge and interior 

 unknown ; pallial margin crenulate within. Length 0-43 inch ; height 0-3'i 

 inch ; breadth or convexity 0-18 inch. 



Locality and position. South-west base of the Black Hills — Jurassic. 



Astarte inornata, M. & H. — Shell subelliptical, compressed; extremities 

 rounded, the posterior margin forming a broader curve than the other; base 

 semielliptical in outline; dorsum declining from the beaks, the anterior slope 

 being a little concave, and the other nearly straight or slightly convex ; beaks 

 moderately elevated, compressed, angular in front, located just in advance of 

 the middle ; lunule rather deep, lance-oval, bounded on eacii side by a more 

 or less distinct angle ; surface marked by concentric striae, with a tendency to 

 develop small, very obscure concentric wrinkles. Length 1-15 inches ; height 

 0-79 inch : breadth or convexity 0-44 inch. 



Locality and positioii. Same as last. 



Trigonia Coxradi, .M. & H. — Shell rather amall, subtrigonal, moderately 

 convex; anterior side truncate; base rounded ; posterior side sloping obliquely 

 from che beaks above, and apparently vertically truncate at the extremity; beaks 

 elevated, narrow, incurved, ami located in ailvance of the middle ; posterior 

 umboinl slopes distinctly angular; surface ornamented by rather small, 

 obscure concentric costae, which on the posterior side of the valves, descend 



I860.] 




184 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



at first perpendicularly, after which they are deflected forward parallel to the 

 basal and anterior borders. Length and height, each about 0-97 inch ; con- 

 vexity 0-58 inch. 



Locality and position. South-west base Black Hills, Jurassic. 



Named in honor of Mr. T. A. Conrad, the well known palaeontologist, of 

 Philadelphia. 



Pectev extenoatds, M. & H. — Shell broad ovate, or sub-circular, thin, 

 compressed; basal mtrgin rounded; beaks small; hinge line rather short; 

 ears unknown ; surface apparently having only concentric stride of growth. 

 Height 0-98 inch, length 0-90 inch; convexity 0-28 inch. 



Locality and position. South-west base of Black Hills, in a sandstone of lower 

 Jurassic age. 



PALAEOZOIC. 



Myalina avicdloides, M. & H. — Shell subtrigonal, higher than long, very 

 convex, or sometimes subangular down the umbonal slopes ; anterior margin 

 distinctly sinuous above the middle, thence descending with a slightly convex 

 curve, nearly at right angles with the hinge, to the basal extremity, which is 

 narrowly rounded ; posterior side compressed, its margin curving a little 

 forward above, or intersecting the hinge at right angles, slightly convex, and 

 nearly perpendicular along the middle, below which it curves obliquely forward 

 to the abruptly rounded basal extremity; hinge straight, nearly equalling the 

 length of the shell ; beaks very convex, subangular; and curving rather abruptly 

 forward, so as to become nearly, or quite terminal ; surface having moderately 

 distinct marks of growth. Length, 1-48 inch ; height, 1-66 inch ; convexity, 

 (of left valve), 0-32 inch. 



This will be r^eadily distinguished from all the other species of the genus 

 known to us, by its more accurate front, and the extension of its anterior margin 

 under the beaks, above its most sinuous part. 



Locality and position. From the upper beds, containing Permian types of 

 fossils, on Cottonwood creek, Kanzas Territory. 



Note. In going carefully over these extensive collections, we have in addition 

 to finding the new species here described, succeeded in working from the matrix, 

 better specimens of many of those already published by us, than had been pre- 

 viously obtained. The additional information derived from these, and a more 

 careful review of the subject has enabled us to make several corrections 

 in the synonyma, as well as in the generic references, a list of which is given 

 below. 



It will also be observed, that we have made quite a number of other changes, 

 in order to range the species under the oldest generic names proposed after the 

 introduction by Linnaeus, of the binomial system. We must confess, however, 

 that we have some doubts whether science is to be much benefitted by a strict 

 observance of the law of priority, in such cases as those where it becomes 

 necessary to change long established names. We nevertheless make some 

 such changes in conformity with usages rapidly gaining ground, and probably 

 destined soon to become universal amongst conchologists and laborers in other 

 departments of Natural History. 



The transfer of several species formerly published under the names ILimites, 

 Ancyloceras? and Turrilites, to the genus Jlelicoceras, has been made in accord- 

 ance with the views of Mr. Daniel Sharpe, (Fossil Mol. Chalk, England, part 

 3d, Cephalopoda, p. 59, Paleont. Soc.) who refers ail the so called Turrilites 

 having rounded whorls, with the siphuncle placed on the dorsal or outer side, to 

 the genus Ilelicoceras, whether the whorls are in contact or not. The genus 

 Turrilites, he restricts to those forms having more or less angular contiguous 

 whorls, with the siphuncle located near the suture. The fact of the whorls of 

 those forms with rounded volutions being in contact or not, can scarcely be 



[May, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



185 



regarded in all cases, of even specific importance, since it is now well known 

 that in some instances the same species presents both these peculiarities, and 

 sometimes the whorls of one part of the spire are in contact, and in others dis- 

 connected, even in the same individual. 



Our specimens confirm Mr. Sharp's views, for although they are but mere 

 fragments, it is evident they are parts of spiral shells, presenting intermediate 

 gradations between forms with whorls barely in contact, and others in which 

 they are clearly disconnected. 



Mr. D'Orbigny describes the septa of the genus Helicoceras as being un- 

 symmetrical, like those of Tiirrililes, this, however, is not always the case in 

 species, the whorls of which make a very broad curve around a large umbilical 

 cavity, for in some of our specimens of this kind, the corresponding lobes on 

 opposite sides of the siphuncle, present scarcely the slightest inequality, and 

 in other instances seem to be as nearly symmetrical as in Ilamites, or any of 

 the allied genera. 



I^ames formerly Tised. 



IlAsirTES MoRTONi, Hall & Meek. } 



Hdicoceras tf.nuicostatum. Meek & Hayflen. j 



TcRRiuTEs (Helicoceras) cochleatus, M. k H. 



An'CTLOCeras ? Nebr.wcexsis, Meek & Hayden. J 

 Turrilitts Nebrascensis, Meek & Hayden. ] 



AXCTLOCERAS ? Chetennensis, .Meek & Hayden. ) 

 Tiirrilites C/ieyennenHs, >ieek & Hayden. J 



Tup.RiLiTKS UMiiiLicATUs, Meek & Hayden. 



Ammon'ites percarinatcs, Hall 6i Meek, 



presents extremely different characters, at 

 various stages of its growth : probably not 

 distinct from A. Woolgari, of Mantell. 



Ammonites cordiformis. Meek & Hayden, 



probably identical with A. Cordatus, Sowerby. 



Plaxorbis fragilis,* M. & H. f non Dunker.) 



Planorbis suBU.MBiLicATis, Meek & Hayden. 



Planorbis amplexus. Meek & Hayden. 



Paludina Co.vradi, Meek & Hayden. 



PALtJDiNA MULTiuxEATA, Meek & Hayden. 



Paludi.va Leai, IVIeek *c Hayden. 



P.'iLtiDixA retusa. Meek & Mayden. 

 P.iLUBiyA trochiformi.s, Meek & Hayden. 

 TuRRiTELLA MoREAtjEXt-is, Meek d Hayden. 

 ScALARiA CERiTDiFoRMis, Meek 5( Hayden. 

 Turbo Xebrascexjis. Meek & Hayden. 

 KOSTELLARIA BIAXGCLATA. Meek <t Hayden. 

 Fuses coxTORTCs. Meek & Hayden. 

 BocciNUM ? vinculum. Hall & Meek. 

 ACTEOX ATTENHATUS, Meek ^ Hayden. 

 AcTEox coNcixNus, Hall & .Meek, \ 



AveUana sitbgMiosa, Meek & H.iyden. J 

 AcTEON scBELLiPTicus. Meek & Havden. 

 Natica paludinjeformis,* Hall &' Meek. 



(non N paludiniformis, D'Orbigny.) 

 Bulla sobctundrica,* Meek 4 Ilayden. 

 CORB0LA VENTRICOSA, Meek k Hayden. 

 CoRBtn.A MoREAUENsis, Meek & Hayden. 

 Cttherea TENUIS. Hall & Meek. 

 CrxHEREA pellucida. Meek !k Hayden. 

 rTTHEREA Deweti, Meek ,"^ Hayden. 

 Cttherea Owexaxa, Meek 8c Hayden. 

 Cttherea orbiculata. Meek & Hayden. 

 Ctclas FORMOSA. Meek & Hayden. 

 Ctclas fragilis, Meek & Hayden. 

 Ctclas subelliptica. Meek & Hayden. 

 IfETTANaiA Americana, Meek & Hayden. 

 NUCULA KvAXSi, Meek & H.iyden. 

 NuCt'lA 8CITUL.1. Meek & Hayden. 

 CucuLL^A SnuM.ARDi, .Meek & Hayden. 

 Pectuncdlus Siouxensis, Hall & Meek. 

 Pectosculus scbimbricatus. Meek & Hayden. 



Names here adopted. 

 Helicoceras Mortoni. 

 Helicoceras cochle.^tum. 

 Helicocer.^s Nebrascexsk. 

 Helicoceras Cheyennense. 



Helicoceras umbilicatum. 



Pl.vnobris planocoxvexcs. 

 Valvata subumuilicata. 

 Heux (Polygyra) .amplexcs. 



VlVIPAKA CONRADI. 

 ViriP.'^RA MULTILINEATA. 

 A'lVIPARA LeAI. 

 ViVIPARA BETCSA. 

 VlTIPARA TROCHIFORMIS. 



Cerithiopsis Moreauexsis.' 

 Tdbbonilla (Chemnitizia) cerithifof.mis. 

 M.arq.arita Nebrascexsis. 

 Aporrhais eianoulatus. 

 Pleurotoma coxtorta. 

 fusus vixculcm.. 

 Solidulus attenuatus. 



avellana concinna. 



SOLIDtTLUS (AcTEONINA ?) SUBELL1PTICC8. 

 AMAUROPSIS PALUDINIFORMIS. 



Bulla speciosa. 



NE.ERA TENTRICOSA. 



Ne«ra Moreauensis. 

 Meretrix tenuis. 

 Meretrix pellucida. 

 Meretrix Deweti. 

 Meretrix Owenana. 

 Meretrix orbiculata. 



SPH.ERICM FORMOSCM. 



Sph^ricm fragile. 



SPH.«RinM SUBELLIPTICUM. 



Tancrk.-ia Americana. 



Leda Kva.ssi. 



Leda scitula. 



Cucn.L«A FIBROSA, Sowerby. 



AXIN.EA Siouxensis. 



AXIX.KA SUBIMBRICATA. 



I860.] 



*The names followed by an asterisk, were pre-occnpied. 




186 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



Descriptions of Fourteen new species of Schizostomse, Anculosae and Lithasise. 



BY ISAAC LEA. 



It will be observed that I have in this paper adopted my first name (Schizos- 

 toma) for the division of those Melaiiidce which have a cut or fissure in the 

 upper portion of the last whorl. This name I proposed in December, 1842. 

 Subsequently finding that it was used by Bronn in 1835 I abandoned it, and 

 proposed the name of Schizochilus as a substitute, (Obs. on the Genus Unio, 

 V. 5, p. 51, 1852.) I am now satisfied that Bronn's name was applied to the same 

 genus — Euomphalus — which Sowerby established in 1814, (Min. Conch, tab. 45.) 

 This evidentlj'^ liberates my original name, and Herrmannsen, in the Appendix 

 to his'-Generum Malacozorum," very properly restores it. It was supposed 

 that this was the Melatoma of Swainson, and Mr. Anthony adopted this name. 

 But it is evident that Mr. Swainson's Melatoma is not my Schizosioma. By refe- 

 rence to his figure (Malacology, p. 342, f. 104) it will be observed at once that 

 there has never been observed in the United States any of the group of which 

 that figure is the type, while it is known that they exist in the islands of the 

 Indian Ocean. Mr. Swainson says (p. 202) that his Melatoma was " founded 

 upon a remarkable Ohio shell " sent by Rafinesque. Now, as no member of the 

 family Melanidce with a cut in the lip has ever been found in the Ohio, where 

 such hosts of active collectors have since pursued their investigations, it is 

 perhaps beyond the bounds of possibility that the specimen sent by Rafinesque, 

 so eminently careless and reckless as he always was, should ever have been 

 found there. Indeed, if the specimen figured was sent by Mr. Rafinesque to 

 Mr. Swainson, then the question would arise whether it had not been obtained 

 by Mr. R. from some dealer or collector, who may have obtained it from Asia. 

 I have no doubt of the Melatoma costata, which Mr. Swainson has figured, 

 being exotic, and belonging to a group probably from the Philippine Islands. 

 Mr. Anthony says, page 64, Proc. A. N. S. 1860, that " it may be doubted 

 whether Mr. Lea's first name will not eventually prevail, since, before he pub- 

 lished Schizosioma, Bronn's genus of the same name had been called a synonym 

 of Bifrontia, Desh." And that " H. and A. .\dams (Gen. Rec. Moll. 1, 105) do 

 not appear correct in giving preference to Gyroloma over Schizostoma, Lea," &c. 

 Notwithstanding this, Mr. Anthony in this paper, where he describes nine sup- 

 posed new species of this genus, adopts the generic name of Gyrotoma. It may 

 be added here that Dr. Gray, in his Genera of Recent Motlusca, give5 3felatoma to 

 Mr. Anthony, not to Swainson, while he does not notice the name of Schizos- 

 toma. Mr. A. does not pretend to claim it, of course, but adopts Gyrotoma, 

 Mr. Shuttleworth's name, proposed in 1845, which being three years later 

 cannot have precedence. 



The genus Schizostoma seems to be capable of being divided into two natural 

 groups in the form of the fissura, the cut in the lip. In one group this fissura 

 is deep and direct, that is parallel with the suture or upper edge of the 

 whorl ; in the other it is not deep and is oblique to the suture. 



In Mr. Anthony's paper (Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Feb., 1860) I recognize several 

 of my old species. His Gyrotoma demissa I believe to be my Schizostoma con- 

 stricta. His G. quadrata to be my S, incisa. 



Schizostoma castanba. — Testa carinata, conica, subcrassa, tenebroso-fusca, 

 imperforata ; spira elevala ; suturis valde impressis ; anfractibus senis, planu- 

 latis, unicarinatis, quadrivittatis ; fissura rectd, angusta profundaque ; apertura 

 parviuscula, elliptica, intus vittata, ad basira subrotundata ; columella alba, in- 

 crassata ; labro acuto, vix sinuato. 



Hab.—Goo^a. River, Alab. E. R. Showalter, M. D. 



Schizostoma glans. — Testa Isvi, ovato-conica, inflatii, subcrassa, luteo-cor- 

 nea, striata, imperforata ; spira obtuse elevata ; suturis regulariter impressis ; 

 anfractibus senis, obsolete vittatis, ultimo subgrandi ; fissura recta, angusta 



[May, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 187 



profundaque ; apertura parviuscula, elliptica, intus albida, ad basim obtuse 

 angulata ; columella albida, superne incrassata; labro-acuto, subsinuato. 

 Hab.—CoossL River, Alab. E. R. Showalter, M. D. 



ScHizosTOMA GLOBOSA. — Testa transverse striata, globosa, subtenui, luteola, 

 iraperforata ; spira curta, obtuse conoidea ; suturis impressis ; anfractibus qua- 

 ternis, trivittatis, ultimo grandi ; fissura recta, angusta brevique ; apertura 

 subgrandi, elliptica, intus vittata, ad basim angulata ; columella alba, incur- 

 vata ; labro acuto, expanso. 



ITab. — Alabama. E. R. Showalter, M. D. 



ScHizosTOMA viRENS. — Testi'i subnodulosil, curta, inflata, subcrassa, tenebroso- 

 viridi, exilissime striata, imperforata ; spira obtusa ; suturis impressis ; anfrac- 

 tibus subplanulatis et trivittatis ; fissura obliqua brevique ; apertura elongata, 

 subpyriformi, intus tenebroso- vittata ; columella superne purpurata et incras- 

 sata ; labro acuto, sinuato. 



Hab. — Coosa River, Alab. E. R. Showalter, M. D. 



SCHIZOSTOMA GLAJJDULA. — Tcstil laBvi, curta, inflata, subcrassa, luteo-cornea, 

 exilissime striata, imperforata ; spira obtusa; suturis valde impressis; anfrac- 

 tibus senis, vittatis, ultimo magno et tumido ; fissura obliqua brevique ; aper- 

 tura subgrandi, elliptica, intus albidd ; columella albida, superne incrassata ; 

 labro acuto, subsinuato. 



Hab.— Coosa, River, Alab. E. R. Showalter, M. D. 



SCHIZOSTOMA Wetompkaensis. — Testa striata, ovato-cylindracea, crassa, pal- 

 lido-fusca, perforata ; spira obtusa, conoidea ; suturis valde impressis ; anfrac- 

 tibus senis, vittatis, planulatis, ultimo grandi ; fissura obliqua brevique ; aper- 

 tura grandi, ovata, intus vittata, ad basim obtuse angulata ; columella alba, 

 superne incrassata; labro acuto, sinuato. 



Hab. — Coosa River, at Wetumpka, Alabama. E. R. Showalter, M. D. 



ScHizosTOMA Alabamensis. — Testa striata, elliptica, robusta, luteo-olivacea, 

 imperforata, spira obtuso-conoldea ; suturis valde impressis ; anfractibus senis, 

 vittatis, subinflatis, ultimo pergrandi ; fissura obliqua subbrevique ; apertura 

 subgrandi, ovata, intus vittata, ad basim rotundata ; columella alba, inferne et 

 superne paulisper incrassata; labro acuto, sinuato. 



^a6.— Alabama. B. W. Budd, M. D., and E. R. Showalter, M. D. 



SCHIZOSTOMA Hartmanii. — Tcsta laevi, subcylindracea, crassa, luteo-cornea, 

 imperforata; spira elevata ; suturis valde impressis; anfractibus planulatis, 

 ultimo subgrandi; fissura recta subbrevique; apertura parviuscula, ovata, 

 intus alba, ad basim obtuse angulata ; columella alba, incurva, inferne paulis- 

 per incrassata ; labro acuto, sinuato. 



Hab. — Coosa River, Alab. W. D. Hartman, M. D. 



SCHIZOSTOMA PUMiLA. — Testa striata, turbonata, subtenui, pallido-cornea» 

 imperforata ; spira valde obtusa ; suturis vald^ impressis ; anfractibus senis, 

 ventricosis, ultimo permagno ; fissura recta subbrevique; apertura parviuscula, 

 ovata, intus alba, ad basim angulata et subcanaliculata ; columella alba, con- 

 torta, inferne incrassata ; labro acuto, sinuato. 



ZTafi.— Alabama. B. W. Budd, M. D. 



Ancolosa FORMOSA. — Tcsta laevi, globosa, subtenui, diaphana, vel luteola 

 vel crocata, valde vittata et maculatfl. ; spira depressa vix conspicufl, ; suturis 

 impressis ; anfractibus ternis, ultimo magno et valde ventricoso ; apertura 

 grandi, subrotunda, intus pallido-crocata et tenebroso-vittata ; columella in- 

 ferne et superne incrassata et pallido-purpurata ; labro acuto et valde expanso. 



Hab. — Coosa River, Shelby Co., Alabama. E. R. Showalter, M. D. 



Anculosa contorta. — Testa laevi, globoso-ovoidea, crassa, luteo-corneJL ; 

 spira elevata ; suturis valde impressis ; anfractibus inflatis, obsolete transverse 



1860.J 




188 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



striatis ; apertura parva, subrotuada, coatracta, intus luteo-alba ; columella in- 

 crassata; labro acuto, expanse. 



Hab. — Coosa River, at Watumpka, Alab. E. R. Sbowalter, M. D. 



Ancdlosa tittata. — Testa Isvi, subglobosa, crassa, luteola, valde vittat^ ; 

 spir4 obtusa ; suturis impressis ; anfractibus quarternis, inflatis, ultimo magno 

 et ventricoso ; apertura rotunda, in faucibus valde constricta, intus vittata ; 

 columella valde incrassata, planulata, purpurata; labro acuto, expanso. 



Hab. — Coosa River, at Watumpka, Alabama. E. R. Sbowalter, M. D. 



LiTHASiA Showalterii. — Testa laevi, ovato-cylindracea, subcrassa, luteo-cor- 

 nea, vittata : spira obtuse conoidea ; suturis valde impressis, anfractibus senis, 

 ultimo magno et planulato : apertura grandi, subovata, elongata, intus albida, 

 tenebroso-vittata, ad basim obtuse angulata ; columella inferne et superne in- 

 crassata, incurva; labro acuto et subconstricto. 



Hab. — Coosa River, at Watumpka, Alabama. E. R. Sbowalter, M. D. 



LiTHASiA NUCLEA. — Testa lasvi, elliptica, luteo-oliva, crassa, solida, trivittata ; 

 spira obtuse conoidea ; suturis impressis ; anfractibus quinis, ultimo magno et 

 paulisper inflato ; apertura parviuscula, ovato-rotunda, intus albida, trivittata, 

 ad basim recurvata ; columella inferne et superne incrassata, incurva ; labro 

 acuto. 



Hab. — Coosa River, Alabama. E. R. Sbowalter, M. D. 



Catalogue of Birds collected dtiring a survey of a route for a ship Canal across 

 the Isthmus of Darien, by order of the Government of the United States, 

 made by Lieut. N. niichler, of the TI. S. Topographical Engineers, with notes 

 and descriptions of new species. 



BY JOHN CASSIN. 



(Continued from page 144.) 



84. Thamnophilus atricapillds, (Gmelin). 



Lanius atricapillus, Gm. Syst. Nat. i. p. 303, (1788). 

 Lanius pileatus, Lath. Ind. Orn. i. p. 76, (1790). 

 Vieill. Ois. D'Am. Sept. pi. 48, 49. Bufif. PI. Enl. 479, fig. 2. 

 From Carthagena. 



" On the Popa mountain at Carthagena, constantly flying across the pathway, 

 and was evidently catching small Lepidoptera and Diptera. Has a prolonged 

 note somewhat like one note of the Cat bird of the United States. Very shy, 

 and not easily obtained, though abundant." (Mr. W. S. Wood, Jr.) 



85. Thamnophilus naevius, (Gmelin). 



Lanius naevius, Gm. Syst. Nat. i. p. 308, (1788). 

 Leach, Zool. Misc. i. pi. 17. Sw. B. of Braz. pi. 59. 

 From the River Truando. 



" Frequently seen, and generally on the ground, in patches of a plant called 

 "Spanish Bayonet," by the people of the country, on which it seemed 

 to be catching insects. At Camp Toucey, in January, 1858." (Mr. W. S. 

 Wood, Jr.) 



86. Thamnophilus transandeus, Sclater. 



Thamnophilus transandeus, Sclat. Proc. Zool. Soc. Lond. 1855. p. 18. 

 From Turbo. 



Appears to be this species, having the under tail coverts tipped w^th white, 

 and is rather larger than specimens of T. melanurus, in the Acad. Coll. Very 

 nearly allied, though, to that species. 



" In very thick bushes on the banks of a creek near Turbo, seen only once, 



[May, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 189 



and very shy. Hag a harsh loud note, and appeared to be pursuing large 

 insects, occasionally alighting on the ground." (Mr. W. S. Wood, Jr.) 



87. Thamnophilcs. 

 From Turbo. 



Two specimens labelled as females, nearly allied to T. caesius, (Cuv). and 

 T. cetkiops, Sclater. 



88. Thamnophilus, 



From the River Truando. 



Several specimens, all in young plumage, probably of a species allied to 

 T. atricapillus. 



'• All of the preceding five species live in the bushes, and are often to be 

 seen on the ground, and appear to subsist by capturing insects in various 

 stages, which are exceedingly abundant. All of them are more or less noisy, 

 having harsh, though not always disagreeable notes, which can constantly be 

 heard where they frequent. When alarmed, they take long flights very pre- 

 cipitately, and are not easily collected." (Mr. W. S. Wood, Jr.) 



89. Pachyrhamphus kufescens, (Spix) ? 



From Turbo. A single specimen in young plumage. 



" On the Cremantina, a high tree with very abundant foliage. Has much 

 the habits of a Fly-catcher, darting out in pursuit of insects, and returning to 

 its perch, and moving his tail in the same manner." (Mr. W. S. Wood, Jr.) 



Genus Pittasoma, nobis. 



Gener.al aspect of Conopophaga, Vieillot, but larger, and bearing about the 

 same relation to that genus as Grallaria, Vieillot, does to Grallaricula, Sclater. 

 Also resembling Piiia, Vieillot, but differing from all the genera here men- 

 tioned, except Cojiopophaga, in having the bill wide and depressed, not com- 

 pressed. 



Form robust, wings short, concave, rounded, fifth, sixth and seventh quills 

 longest ; tail very short ; bill strong, wide at base and narrowing gradually, 

 depressed, upper mandible notched near the tip, and with the culmen distinct, 

 a few rudimentary bristles at base ; nostrils oval, inserted in a large membrane ; 

 legs long, very strong, tarsus with about five large scales in front, which 

 become nearly integral on the outside, and quite so behind ; toes moderate ; 

 claws curved, sharp. 



90. Pittasoma Michleri, nobis. 



(^ Head above black, the shafts of the feathers lustrous, large space on the 

 cheek, extending completely around the neck behind, bright chestnut, throat 

 black, many of the feathers tipped with white, and with chestnut, lores white ; 

 back reddish olive, many feathers edged with black on each side ; rump, upper 

 tail coverts and wing coverts greenish rufous, the last (wing coverts) with 

 small terminal spots of white, which spots are edged and nearly enclosed with 

 black; under parts white, every feather having two or three rather wide, 

 transverse, waved or crescent-shaped bands of deep black; abdomen and 

 under tail coverts, tinged with ferruginous, but transversely striped with black, 

 same as other under parts of body; under wing coverts, dull greenish brown, 

 striped and spotted with white and black; quills greenish rufous, some of the 

 shorter quills having sub-terminal spots of light rufous, edged with black ; 

 tail greenish rufous ; upper mandible dark bluish horn color, lighter towards 

 the tip ; under mandible yellow, legs light horn color. 



Total length from tip of bill to end of tail, about 7 inches, wing 3f, tail 1|, 

 bill from gape If, tarsus 1^ inches. 



Ilab. River Truando, iNew Grenada. Discovered by Mr. William S. Wood, 

 Jr. and Mr. Charles J. Wood. (Panama, Mr. J. McLeannan). Spec, in Nat. 

 Mus. Washington. 



This is the most remarkable bird in the collection of the expedition, and is 

 one of the most handsome of the Ant Thrushes, if indeed to that group it and the 



I860.] 




190 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



genus Conopophaga belong. Though with the general form and appearance of 

 Pitta and Grallaria, this bird diflFers from them in having a, very strong depressed 

 and rather wide bill, not compressed as in those genera. In this respect, and 

 other structural characters, it approximates to Conopophaga, and also in having 

 more variegated and agreeable colors than in Grallaria. This bird is in fact, 

 the most handsome bird of its group yet discovered in America. The only 

 specimen in the collection of the expedition is labelled as a male. 



Another and very fine specimen of this bird, kindly loaned to me by Mr. 

 Lawrence, of New York, belongs to the collection of J. McLeannan, Esq., of 

 that city, and was obtained by him on the Isthmus of Panama. 



" On the river Truando. January 22d, 1858, above its junction with the Atrato, 

 but before reaching the Cordilleras. In the woody places running on the ground 

 very swiftly, and scratching among the leaves, not common." (Mr. C. J. 

 Wood). 



This handsome bird I have named in honor of the commanding ofiScer of the 

 expedition, Lieut. N. Michler, of the U. S. Topographical Engineers, under 

 whose direction, and with whose judicious advice and assistance, the present 

 interesting collection was made, as stated in the preliminary note to this paper. 



91. FoRMicivoRA GRiSEA, (Boddaert). 



Turdus griseus, Bodd. Tab. PI. Enl. p. 39, (1783). 

 Formicivora nigricoUis, Swains. Zool. Jour. ii. p. 147. 

 Spix. Av. Bras. ii. pi. 41. BuflF. PI. Enl. 643. 

 From Carthagena. 



" On the ' Popa' mountain, at Carthagena. Very abundant in the bushes, 

 but very quick in motion, and shy, flying off on slight noise or alarm. Novem- 

 ber, 1857." (Mr. W. S. Wood, Jr.) 



92. Formicivora quxxensis, (Cornalia). 



" Thamnophilus quixensis, et rufiventris. Corn. Sclater." 

 '• Myiothera perlata." Label in Mus. Acad. Philadelphia. 



From the river Truando. 



Both sexes, much as given in the descriptions above cited and labelled by 

 the collectors as male and female of the same species. 



" Abundant at the camp in the Cordilleras, on the Rio Truando. In the 

 high trees, actively capturing insects, and never observed descending to the 

 bushes. The two plumages labelled as male and female, were constantly seen 

 together, and were thought by my brother and myself to be the same bird." 

 (Mr. W. S. Wood, Jr.) 



93. HvPOCNEMis N^vioiDES, (Lafrcsnaje). 



Conopophaga nsevioides, Lafr. Rev. Zool. 1847, p. 69, 



From the falls of the Truando. 



" At camp Floyd, on the south side of the river Truando, before reaching 

 the first range of the Cordilleras. Running on the ground amongst bushes, 

 and always in damp or marshy places, much resembling in its actions the 

 Water Thrush of the United States, (Seiurus noveboracensis). Frequently seen 

 in J.anuary and February, 1858." (Mr. W. S. Wood, Jr). 



94. Myrmotherula pygm^ea, (Gmelin). 



Muscicapa pygmsea, Gm. Syst. Nat. i. p. 983, (1788). 

 Buff. PI. Enl. 831. 

 From the river Truando. 



"Abundant on the 'Cremantina' trees, especially at Camp Toucey, in Janu- 

 ary, 1853. Frequently seen also in the Plaintains or Bananas, constantly 

 searching for insects amongst the fruit and leaves." (Mr. W. S. Wood, Jr.) 



95. Myrmotherula scrinamensis, (Gmelin). 



Sitta surinamensis, Gm. Syst. Nat. i. p. 442, (1788). 

 Lath. Gen. Hist. iv. pi. 62. Proc. Zool. Soc. London, 1858, pi. 141. 

 From Turbo. 

 " Frequently seen in the trees at Turbo, and the male was at first supposed 



[May, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 191 



by my brother and myself, to be the black and white creeper of the United 

 States, {Mniotilta varia). It has habits exactly like those of that bird, running 

 along the upper or lower sides of the branches frequently with its head down- 

 wards. In April. 1858." (Mr. W. S. Wood, Jr.) 



96. Myrmotherula melaena, (Sclater). 



Formicivora melaena, Sclat. Proc. Zool. See. London, 1857, p. 130. 



From the river Truando. 



" At Camp Toucey on the Truando, before reaching the Cordilleras. In the 

 bushes, and very active in pursuit of insects. Has a short, rather loud note, 

 often repeated, rendering pursuit very easy ; solitary, but frequently seen." 

 (Mr. W. S. Wood, Jr.) 



97. Myrmotherula ornata, (Sclater) ? 



Formicivora ornata, Sclat. Rev. et Mag. Zool. 1853, p. 480? 



From the river Truando. 



Several specimens, apparently immature, and not easily to be referred to 

 either M. gularis or its allies, but unmistakeably of that ilk. 



" At Camp Toucey, on the Truando, and previously at Turbo. Seen in the 

 high trees and also occasionally in the bushes, very active, and constantly in 

 motion." (Mr. W. S. Wood, Jr.) 



98. Myrmeciza exsul, Sclater. 



Myrmeciza exsul, Sclat. Proc. Zool. Soc. London, 1858, p. 540. 

 From Turbo. 



One specimen only, labelled as a male and very nearly as described by Mr. 

 Sclater as above cited. 



99. Myrmeciza exsul, Sclater ? 



Very similar to the preceding, and probably the same species, but with the 

 entire under parts reddish chestnut brown, nearly uniform with the upper parts, 

 throat only ashy black. 



From Turbo. 



" These two birds were considered to be the same species by my brother and 

 myself, notwithstanding the difference in the color of the under parts. We 

 met with this species in the thick and dry parts of the forest at Turbo, rather 

 plenty, but not easily shot on account of their running on the ground very 

 swiftly, and concealing themselves amongst the leaves. It utters loud, rather 

 musical notes, somewhat similar to those of the Golden-crowned Thrush, 

 (Seiurus) of the United States." (Mr. W. S. Wood, Jr.) 



100. PiPRA AURiCAPiLLA, (Brisson). 



Manacus auricapillus, Briss. Orn. iv. p. 448, (1760). 

 Desm. Manak. pi. 60. Hahn & Kiister, Orn. Atlas, pi. 92. 

 From Turbo. 



101. Ptilochloris rufo-olivaceus, Lafresnaye. 



Ptilochloris rufo-olivaceus, Lafres. Rev. Zool. 1838, p. 238. 

 From the Truando. 

 " At camp Toucey. On the ground, seen once only." (Mr. W. S. Wood, Jr.) 



102. Seiukus noveboracensis, (Gmelin). 



Motacilla noveboracensis, Gm. Syst. Nat. i. p. 958, (1788). 

 And. B. of Am. pi. 433. Oct. ed. iii. pi. 149. 

 From Carthagena. 



"Seen once only, in a small stream of water on the ' Popa' mountain, in 

 November, 1857." (Mr. W. S. Wood, Jr.) 



103. Dendroica .«sTrvA, (Gmelin). 



Motacilla aestiva, Gm. Syst. Nat. i. p. 996, (1788). 



Sylvia citrinella, Wilson, Am. Orn. ii. p. Ill, (1810). 

 Wilson, Am. Orn. ii. pi. 15. Aud. B. of Am. pi. 95. Oct. ed. ii. pi. 88. 

 From Turbo. 

 " Seen for a few days at Turbo, early in April, 1858." (Mr. W. S. Wood, Jr.) 



I860.] 




192 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



104. Dendroica Vieilloti, nobis. 



Sylvia ruficapila, Vieill. Nouv. Diet. xi. p. 228, (but not of same vol. p. 

 179, and not St/lvia ruficapilla, Lath. Ind. Orn. ii. p. 540, which is 

 Motacilla petechia, Linnaeus, a distinct species). 

 " Chloris erilhrachorides, Feuille," Baird, Rept. Pac. R. R. Surv. ix. p. 

 283, iience Dendroica erithachorides . Baird. same vol. p. 283, (but not 

 Chloris erithrachorides, Feuille, Jour. Obs. Phys. iii. p. 413, (1725), 

 which is Motacilla petechia, Linnaeus). 

 Entire bead and neck in front light reddish chestnut. Plumage of all other 

 parts much resembling that of D. (estiva, of the United States, but darker on 

 the back, wings and tail, size rather larger, and with the bill slightly longer 

 and more gradually pointed. Total length, 4J to 4| inches. 



Hab. — South America, Central America. (Panama, Mr. J. G. Bell). 

 From Carthagena. 



I have been quite unsuccessful in attempting to find a name really applicable 

 to this well marked and not uncommon species. It is usually, I believe, regard- 

 ed as Sylvia ruficapilla of authors, and is unmistakeably described by Vieillot, 

 as above cited, but erroneously so far as relates to the name, which is applied 

 by all other authors to Motacilla petechia. Linnaeus, a species not uncommon 

 from the West Indies, and accurately figured by Vieillot, Ois d'Am. Sept. pi. 

 91. Under these circumstances I propose the name above given.* 



*There are at least five species of Dendroica, resembling each other, and all having 

 the general appearance of I), asliva of the United Slates. The first four of these have 

 been much confused and mistaken for each other : 



1. De.n-droica .estiva, (Gmelin.) 



Moucilla Estiva, Gm. Syst. Nat. ii. p. 996, (1788). 



Hab. United States, iVIexico, Central America, New Grenada, West Indies ? 

 2 Dendroica albicollis, (Gmelin). 



Motacilla albicollis, Gm. Syst. Nat. ii. p. 983, (1788). 



Hab. Cuba, (Gundlach), St. Domingo, (Brisson). 



This is the bird usually regarded as D. asliva, by the Cuban ornithologists, but is a dis- 

 tinct species as 1 suspected long before examining authentic specimens. The habits of 

 this bird, as given by those very accurate naturalists, are different from those of ihe com- 

 mon bird of the United States. Brisson (Orn. iii. p. 494) carefully describes the present 

 species, though his specimens do not appear to have been mature. The young bird onjy 

 has the throat and neck in front nearly pure white. 



2. Dendroica petechia, (Linnaeus). 



Motacdla petechia, Linn. Syst. Nat. i. p. 334, (1776). 

 Motacilla ruficapilla, Gm. Syst. Nat. ii. p. 971, (1768). 



Hab. West Indies, Central America ? Jamaica ? Martinique (Brisson). 



I have frequently seen specimens precisely in the plumage as figured by Vieillot, as 

 above cited, and by Edwards, Birds v. pi. 256, fig. 2, but I am not confident of the exact 

 locality. This is very probably the Sylvicola asliva, of Gosse, B. of Jamaica, p. 157, 

 and probably of Messrs. Newton, B. of St. Croix, in Sclater's Ibis, 1859, p. 153. This 

 bird is also very carefully described by Brisson, (Orn. iii. p. 490), in mature plumage, with 

 the top of head, clear, well defined rufous. 

 4 Dendroica ViEiLLOTi, Cassin, u< st/^ro. 



Sylvia ruficapilla, Vieill. Nouv. Diet. xi. p. 228. 



Hab. South America and Central America, New Grenada, (W. S. Wood, Jr.) Panama, 

 (J. G. Bell). 

 5. Dendroica aureola, (Gould). 



Sylvicola aureola, Gould, Voy. Beagle, Birds, p. 86,(1841). 



Hab. Galapagos Islands, (Gould). 



Very similar to D.pe^ecAia, as above. This species, or at least specimens from the 

 Galapagos Islands, I have not seen. Of all the others several specimens of each are now 

 before me, and 1 have not the smallest doubt of their specific distinctness, which I hope 

 to fully demonstrate Ln a subsequent paper. Having called the attention of my friend 

 Mr. Lawrence, of New York, 'o the distinctness of the Cuban species, his views will 

 probably appear in his notes on Birds of Cuba, about to be published in the Annals of the 

 Lyceum, New York. 



[May, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 193 



"Frequently seen on the 'Popa' mountain atCarthagena, in November, 1857. 

 Very active and constantly moving in the lower trees and bushes." (.VIr. W 

 S. Wood, Jr.) 



105. Dendroica castanea, (Wilson). 



Sylvia castanea, Wilson, Am. Orn. ii. p. 97, (1810). 

 Wilson, Am. Orn. ii. pi. 14. Aud. B. of Am. pi. 69, Oct. ed. ii. pi. 80. 

 From Turbo and the River Truando. 



■'On the Truando, in January, and at Turbo early in April, 1858. In small 

 flocks of ten or twelve, in the high trees, very much as in autumn in the 

 United States." (Mr. W. S. Wood, Jr.) 



106. Thryothorus nigricapillus, Sclater. 



Thryothorus nigricapillus, Sclater, Proc. Zool. Soc. London, 1860, p. 84. 



From the River Truando. 



Two specimens appear to be this species, or at least very closely allied. 

 They differ only in having the throat transversely banded with black lines, 

 same as on other parts. 



•' In low bushes and on the ground, on the banks of the Rio Truando, in 

 the Cordilleras. Frequently seen, and runs on the ground, more than usual in 

 the larger Wrens of the United States, but has similar areneral habits." (Mr. 

 W. S. Wood, Jr.) 



107. Thryothorus. 



A large plain colored species, for which I have found no name, but am not 

 sufficiently acquainted with the group of Troglodytince to feel warranted in 

 proposing a species. Several specimens from Turbo and Carthagena. 



108. ScLERUEUs BR0NNEUS, Sclater. 



Sclerurus brunneus, Sclat. Proc. Zool. Soc. London, 1857, p. 17. 



From the river Ingador. 



One specimen only in the collection of the Expedition appears to be this 

 species. "On the banks of a small stream called the Ingador, near the coast 

 of the Pacific Ocean. In the Palm trees, clinging to the leaves and searchinsj 

 for insects, March, 1858." (Mr. W. S. Wood, Jr.) 



109. Synallaxis Candei, D'Orb. et Lafres. 



Synallaxis Candei, D'Orb. et Lafres. Rev. Zool. 1838, p. 16-5. 

 From Carthagena. 



1.10. Xenops ruficauda, (Vieillot). 



Synallaxis ruficauda, Vieil. Nouv. Diet, xxxii. p. 310, (1818). 

 Temm. PI. Col. 150. 

 From Turbo. 



lU. Dendrornis triangularis, (Lafresnaye). 



Dendrocalaptes triangularis, Lafr. Mag. Zool. 1843. 

 Guerin, Mag. Zool. 1843, pi. 32. 



From the river Truando. 



■' These kinds of birds were very abundant on the trees in the Cordilleras, 

 and a few were seen at camp Toucey, on the Rio Truando, within 20 or 30 

 miles of the mountains. They run on the trunks and branches very rapidly, 

 and appear to be very greedy and rapacious. Not shy, and easily approached, 

 but not easily shot, on account of their quick movements. When they have 

 ascended a tree, they fly down to the base of another, like the Brown Creeper 

 of the United States, (^Certhia)." (Mr. W. S. Wood, Jr.) 



112. Dendrornis guttatus, (Lichtenstein). 



Dendrocolaptes guttatus, Licht.Verz. p. 16, (1823). 

 Le Vaill. Prom. pi. 30. 

 From the river Truando. 



I860.] 12 




19^ PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



113. Dendroenis. 



One specimen from the river Truando, witli large elongated spots for which I 

 have not succeeded in finding a name. 



114. MaLA-COPTILA ? 

 From the river Truando. 



A single specimen in immature plumage, referable to no species with which 

 I am acquainted. 



115. Cbethiola luteola, Cabanis. 



Certhiola luteola, Cab. 

 From Turbo and Carthagena. 



116. .JtJLiAMYiA JPLI.E, (Bourcicr). 



Juliamyia typica, Bonap. Rev. Zool. 1854, p. 255. 

 Ornismyia Juliae, Bourc. Ann. Soc. Lyons, 1842, p. 345. 

 Gould, Monog. pt. xviii. pi. (not numbered). 

 From Turbo. 



■' Seen occasionally in April, 1858, but not very common. Flies very swiftly, 

 and is shy, darting away on the least alarm." (Mr. W. S. Wood, Jr.) 



117. Chetsolampis MOSCHIT0S, (Linnagus.) 



Trochilus moschitus, Linn. Syst. Nat. i. p. 192, (1766). 

 Gould, Monog. pt. xii. pi. 

 From Carthagena. 



•' About an old fort in the ' Popa' mountain, which was completely overgrown 

 with vines and flowering plants, this humming bird and others were exceeding- 

 ly abundant. Constantly flying and fighting with each other, and nowhere 

 seen so abundant as here, in the month of November, 1857." (Mr. W. S. 

 Wood, Jr.) 



118. Lampornis MANGO, (Linnaeus). 



Trochilus mango, Linn. Syst. Nat. i. p. 191, (1766). 

 Gould, Monog. pt. xii. pi. 

 From Carthagena. 

 Appears to be the true mango of authors. 



119. EucEPHALA cseulea, (Vieillot). 



Trochilus caeruleus, Vieill. Nouv. Diet. vii. p. 361. (1817). 

 Gould, Monog. pt. xiv. pi. 

 From Carthagena. 



120. Ionolaima. 

 From Turbo. 



One specimen only, in bad condition and immature plumage, appears to be 

 of this genus. 



121. Phaethornis tarhqui, (Bourcier). 



Trochilus yaruqui, Bourc. Compt. Rend, xxxii. p. 187. 

 Gould, Monog. pt. iv. pi. 

 From the River Truando. 



" Plain plumaged humming birds were frequently seen in the Cordilleras, but 

 never very abundant. We rarely saw the brighter colored in the mountains. 

 Generally about the vines and shrubbery." (Mr. W. S. Wood, Jr.) 



122. Phaethornis. 

 From Turbo. 



A single specimen, in immature plumage, of a small species. 



123. Chloraenas rufina, (Temminck). 



Columba rufina, Temm. Pig. et Gall. i. p. 467, (1813). 

 Knip, Pigeons i. pi. 24. 

 From Turbo and the Delta of the River Atrato. 



[May, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 195 



" Seen once only at Turbo in a small floek, sitting in a high tree, and once 

 only at the mouth of the Atrato ; seemed to be a stranger. Early in January, 

 1858." (Mr. W. S. Wood, Jr.) 



124. Leptoptila Vbrreadxii, (Bonaparte). 



Leptoptila Verreauxi, Bonap. Consp. Av. ii. p. 73, (1854). 

 From Turbo and the River Truando. 



" In a secluded part of the forest at Turbo, in the trees, and afterwards on 

 the Truando." (Mr. W. S. Wood, Jr.) 



125. Chamaepelia granatina, Bonaparte. 



Chamaepelia granatina, Bonap. Consp. Av. ii, p. 77, (1854). 



From Carthagena. 



'• Abundant and in large flocks among the bushes on the shores of the sea at 

 Carthagena, in November, 1857. Seemed to be searching for food in the sand 

 and short grass, and not very easily approached, flying away very rapidly, and 

 frequently alighting on trees." (Mr. W. S. Wood, Jr.) 



126. TiXAMCs MAJOR, (Gmeliu). 



Tetrao major, Gm., Syst. Nat. i. p. 767, (1788). 

 Pezus serratus, Spix, Av. Bras, ii, p. 61, (1825). 

 Buff. PI. Enl. 476. Spix. Av. Bras. ii. pi. 76. 

 From the River Truando. 



One specimen only, labelled as a female, which appears to be identical with 

 specimens from Brazil. 



''Frequently heard on the Truando, near the first range of the Cordilleras. 

 It has a very loud, continued note, not inappropriately compared by the mem- 

 bers of our party to the whistle of a locomotive engine. Not easily seen, beinp 

 exceedingly shy and running very rapidly." (Mr. W. S. Wood, Jr.) 



127. Squatarola helvetica, (Linnaeus). 



Tringa helvetica, Linn. Syst. Nat. i. p. 250, (1766). 

 Charadrius apricarius, Wilson, Am. Orn. vii. p. 41, (1813). 

 Wilson, Am. Orn. vii. pi. 57. And. B. of Am. pi. 334. Oct. Ed. v. pi. 315. 

 From Carthagena. 



128. Symphemia semipalmata, (Gmelin). 



Scolopax semipalmatus. Gm. Syst. Nat. i. p. 659, (1788). 

 Wilson, Am. Orn. vii. pi. 56. And. B. of Am. pi. 274. Oct. Ed. v. pL 347. 

 From Carthagena. 



129. Gambetta melanoleuca, (Gmelin). 



Scolopax melanoleucus, Gm. Syst. Nat. i. p. 659, (1788). 

 Scolopax vociferus, Wilson. 

 Wilson, Am. Orn. vii. pi. 58. Aud. B. of Am. pi. 308. Oct. ed. v. pi. 34b. 

 From Carthagena. 



130. Gambetta flavipes, (Gmelin). 



Scolopax flavipes, Gm. Syst. Nat. i. p. 659, (1788). 

 Wilson, Am. Orn. vii. pi. 58. Aud. B. of Am. pi. 228. Oct. ed. v. pi. 344. 

 From Carthagena. 



131. Calidris arenaria, (Linnaeus). 



Tringa arenaria, Linn. Syst. Nat. i. p. 251, (1766). 

 Calidris americana, Brehm. 

 Wilson Am. Orn. vii. pi. 59, 63. Aud. B. of Am. pi. 230. Oct. ed. v. pi. 338. 

 From Carthagena. 



132. Ereunetes pdsilla, (Linnasus). 



Tringa pusilla, Linn. Syst. Nat. i. p. 252, (1766). 

 Tringa semipalmata, Wilson. 

 Ereunetes petrifactus, Illiger. 

 I860.] 




196 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



Wilson Am. Orn. vii. pi. 63. Aud. B. of Am. pi. 408. Oct. ed. v. pi. 336. 

 From Carthagena. 

 This is, I have no doubt, the true Tringa pusilla of Linnaeus. 



133. Tringa VVilsonii, Nuttall. 



Tringa VVilsonii, Nutt. Man. ii. p. 121, (1834). 

 Tringa pusilla, Wilson. 

 Wilson, Am. Orn. v. pi. 37. Aud. B. of Am. pi. 320. Oct. ed. v. pi. 337. 

 From Carthagena. 



■• The preceding seven species, and in fact nearly all the small wading birds 

 that we had been accustomed to seeing on the coast of New Jersey, were very 

 abundant on the sea coast at Carthagena, in November, 1857. The most abun- 

 dant were perhaps the two small Sandpipers (^E. pusilla and T. Wilsonii), and 

 the yellow Shanks CC./^ay^pes). Though easily shot, they were not so easily 

 obtained, on account of the marshy or boggy character of many localities which 

 they particularly frequented. All of these species were in flocks, as seen on 

 the coast of the United States in Autumn." (Mr. W. S. Wood, Jr.) 



134. Parra hypomelaena, G.R.Gray. 



Parra hypomelaena, Gray, Gen. iii. p. .589, (1846). 

 Gray. Gen. iii. pi. 159. 

 Atrato River. 



" In open places which are very marshy on the River Atrato, late in Decem- 

 ber, 1857. Two or three together, generally on the ground, frequently stretch- 

 ing out their wines, and often wading in the water. Quite shy and watchful." 

 (Mr. W. S. Wood, Jr.^ 



135. Aramides cavennensis, (Gmelin). 



Fulica caj'ennensis, Gm. Syst. Nat. i. p. 700, (1788). 

 BufiF. PI. Enl. 352. 

 From Turbo. 

 '•In a salt water marsh at Turbo ; seen once only." (Mr. Wm. S. Wood, Jr.) 



136. Ardea Herodias, Linna3us. 



Ardea Herodias, Linn. Syst. Nat. i. p. 237, (1766). 

 Wilson, Am. Orn. viii. pi. 65. Aud. B. of Am. pL 211. Oct. ed. vL pi. 369. 

 From the delta of the Atrato. 



" Frequently seen about the mouth of the Atrato, in December." (Mr. W. 

 S. Wood, Jr.) 



137. BcTORiDEs GRisEA, (Boddffirt). 



Cancroma grisea, Bodd. Tab. PI. Enl. p. 54, (1783). 

 Ardea scapularis, lUiger. 

 Buff. PI. Enl. 908. 

 From Carthagena. 



138. Garzetta candidissima, (Gmelin). 



Ardea candidissima, Gm. Syst. Nat. i. p. 633, (1788). 

 Wilson, Am. Orn. vii. pi. 62. Aud. B. of Am. pi. 242. Oct. ed. vi. pi. 374. 

 From Carthagena and the River Atrato. 



" Abundant on the Rio Atrato, in February, 1858. Generally seen sitting 

 on the low trees on the edge of the river." (Mr. W. S Wood, Jr.) 



139. TiGRisoMA brasiliense, (Linnaeus). 



Ardea brasiliensis, Linn. Syst. Nat. i. p. 239, (1766). 

 Buff. PI. Enl. 860. 

 From the delta of the Atrato. 



140. TiGRisoMA tigrincm, (Gmelin)? 



Ardea tigrina, Gm. Syst. Nat. ii, p. 638, (1788). 

 From the delta of the Atrato. 



■ [May. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 197 



141. Harpiprios cayennensis, (Graelin). 



Tantalus cayennensis, Gm. Syst. Nat. i. p. 652, (1788). 

 Buffon. PI. Enl. 820. 

 From the River Nercua. 



■'In the mountains, before reaching the main ridge on the Rio Nercua." 

 (Mr. W. S. Wood, Jr.) 



142. Dendrocygna AUTUMNALis, (Linnagus. ) 



Anas autumnalis, Linn. Syst. Nat. i. p. 205, (1*766). 

 Baird, B. of N. Am. pi. 63. Rept. Mex. Bound. Surv. Birds, pi. 25. 

 From the River Truando. 



143. Carbo brasilianus, (Gmelin)? 



Procellaria brasiliana, Gm. Syst. Nat. i. p. 564? 

 Gillis, Astr. Exp. Birds, pi. 28 ? 

 From the River Truando. 



•• On the Truando and Atrato. frequently seen in the water and also on trees. 

 When perched, drop very suddenly into the water on being alarmed, an/i dis- 

 :ippear by diving." (Mr. W. S, Wood, Jr.) 



144. Plotus anhinga, Linnaeus. 



Plotus anhinga, Linn. Syst. Nat. i. p. 580, (1T66). 

 Plotus melanogaster, Wilson. 

 Wilson, Am. Orn. ix. pi. 74. Aud. B. of Am. pi. 316, Oct. ed. vi. pi. 420. 

 From the Rivers Atrato and Truando. 



Several specimens in immature plumage, but all apparently of this species. 

 ■' Abundant in the months of January, February and March, on all the rivers 

 from the Gulf of Darien, on the Atlantic, to the coast of the Pacific." (Mr. W. 

 S. Wood, Jr.) 



Bescriptions of some new species of Cretaceous Fossils from South America, 

 in the Collection of the Academy. 



BY W. M. GABB. 



Eulima seminosa, pi. 3, fig. 6. Shell fusiform, spire elevated, whorl? 

 five, mouth snaiall, shell thick and marked by irregular lines of growth. 



From a greyish brown limestone from Chili, in connection with Trit'onia 

 Hanetiana Z)' Orb . , and many of the other species described by that author 

 in the "Voyage de I'Astrolabe et Zelee." 



Scalaria (Clathrus) C h i 1 i e n s e , pi, 3, fig. 4. Shell fscalariform, spire 

 very elevated, whorls six or seven, rounded and marked by about fourteen 

 prominent, longitudinal, rounded ribs. Mouth small, subcircular ; a reflec- 

 tion of the inner lip covers the base of the body whorl so as to hide the lower 

 part of some of the ribs. 



Pugnellus t u m i d u s, pi. 3, fig. 13 and 14. Shell heavy, scalariform, spire ele- 

 vated, five whorls, which are angular at the upper part, and marked by a series 

 of small nodes on the angle ; body whorl large, mouth expanded, superior 

 sinus very deep, outer lip very much tliickened, especially the extreme outer 

 portion or callosity, which is nearly as thick as long. The thickening of the 

 superior and lateral edges of the outer lip, produces a deep fosset on the poste- 

 rior portion of the body whorl, immediately behind the expansion of the lip • 

 the inner lip is reflected over a portion of the spire ; canal long and curved 

 anteriorly. 



This species is the one to which Mr. Conrad, in his note on the genus refers 

 I860.] 




198 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



as occurring in South. America. There is another species, (P.) Strombus 

 semicostatus Z)' Orb., that occurs in the same deposit. 



Pleurotoma D'Orbignyana, pi. 3, fig. 7. Shell scalariform, spire ele- 

 vated, whorls five, body whorl angular above ; shell marked by a series of 

 small nodes on the shoulder of the whorls and by fine lines of growth. 



P. arata, pi. 3, fig. 9. Shell scalariform, spire elevated, whorls three or 

 four, subangular above and marked by a shallow, revolving groove imme- 

 diately below the angle ; surface marked by numerous revolving stri«, crossed 

 by faint lines. 



Patella Auca, pi. 3, fig. 11. Shell small, thin, circular; apex small, 

 acuminate and very excentrio ; surface marked by irregular concentric undu- 

 lations. 



Cultellus Australis, pi. 3, fig. 8. Shell elongate, narrow, beaks very 

 small, incurved, near the anterior end ; posterior end gaping, and a little nar- 

 rowed ;, anterior end rounded ; surface marked by concentric striae. 



Mactra C h i 1 i e n s i s , pi. 3, fig. 5. Shell thin, equilateral, slightly convex; 

 beaks small, incurved ; umbones large, prominent ; hinge teeth small ; ante- 

 rior end slightly subangular, posterior rounded ; surface marked by distinct 

 concentric lines. 



M. Araucana, DWrb. sp. var. pi. 3, fig. 12. This specimen difi'ers a lit- 

 tle from the one figured by D'Orbigny, in the Voyage de 1' Astrolabe et Zfelee, 

 in being less angular anteriorly, and in having the umbonal ridge less strongly 

 developed. 



Thracia corbulopsis, pi. 3, fig. 1. Shell nearly equilateral, beaks 

 small, slightly curved anteriorly, umbones prominent and rounded, umbonal 

 ridge angular, and extends to the margin of the shell ; anterior end rounded, 

 posterior acutely angular ; surface marked by numerous fine concentric lines. 



Venus D'Orbignyanus, pi. 3, fig. 2. Shell inequilateral, somewhat 

 convex, beaks small and inclined anteriorly, umbones large and rounded ; 

 cardinal margin curved; anterior end rounded, posterior subangular ; surface 

 marked by strong concentric lines. This species resembles, in its outline, the 

 common V. mercenaria, (M. violacea) of our coast. It differs from 

 V. Auca d'Orb. in having the cardinal margin more strongly curved, in be- 

 ing more angular posteriorly, and in not being so regularly marked on the 

 surface. 



Pinna m i n u t a, pi. 3, fig. 10. Shell small, robust, narrow ; umbonal ridge 

 subangular and nearly parallel with the cardinal line ; cardinal and basal mar- 

 gins straight ; posterior end sub-biangular ; surface marked by strong lines of 

 growth. 



Modiola c r e t a c e a , pi. 3, fig. 3. Shell small ; beaks small, anterior ; 

 umbonal ridge rounded, continued to the posterior basal margin, gradually 

 losing itself in the general curve of the shell, cardinal line arcuate, basal edge 

 sinuous ; surface concentrically striate. 



Anomia parva, pi. 3, fig. 15. Shell thin, orbicular, very slightly convex, 

 pearly ; beak small but acute ; surface marked by concentric undulations, 

 crossed by delicate radiating lines. 



[May, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



199 



June 5th. 

 Vice President Bridges in the Chair. 



Thirty-seven members present. 



The following papers were presented for publication : 



" The Cutting Ant of Texas," by S. B. Buckley. 



" Synonymy of the Cyelades, a family of Acephalous MoUusca, part 

 1st," by Temple Prime. 



" Catalogue of the Colubridsein the museum of the Academy of Natu- 

 ral Sciences of Philadelphia, with notes and descriptions of new spe- 

 cies," by E. D. Cope. 



" Notes on Shells," by T. A. Conrad. 



" Contributions to the Carboniferous Flora of the United States," 

 by Horatio C. Wood, Jr. 



And were referred to Committees. 



Dr. Darrach presented the following Catalogue of Plants appearing in 

 flower, in the neighborhood of Philadelphia, during the month of May. 



1. Ranunculace^. 



Ranunculus aquatilis. 

 " sceleratns. 



" recurvatus. 



" bulbosus. 



2. Magnoliacea^. 

 Magnolia glauca. 

 Liriodendron tulipifera. 



3. BERBEEIDACEiE. 



Podophyllum peltatum. 



4. NTMPH.SACEA. 



Nymphaea odorata. 

 Nuphar advena. 



5. Sakeaceniace*. 



Sarracenia purpurea. 



6. Papaveeace^. 

 Chelldoneum majus. 



7. Fpmaeiace^. 

 Fumaria officinalis. 



8. CEUCrFER^. 



Arabis lyrata. 



" laevigata. 

 Sisymbrium officinalis. 

 Sinapis Nigra. 



9. ViOLACEA. 



Solea concolor. 

 Viola lanceolata. 



" primulaefolia. 



" striata. 



" pubescens. 



10. C1STACE.K. 

 Helianthemum corymbosum. 

 Hudsonia tomentosa. 



11. CARYOPHYLLACEiB. 



Silene Pennsylvanica. 



' ' antirrhina. 

 Arenaria serpyllifolia. 

 Stellaria longifolia. 

 " uliginosa. 

 Cerastium arvense. 

 *Spergula saginoides. 

 Scleranthus annuus. 

 Sagina procumbens. 



12. OXAHDACE.S. 



Oxalis violacea. 

 *' stricta. 



13. GEEAinAGE.S. 



Geranium maculatum. 

 " Carolinianum. 

 " Robertianum. 



14. SOACAKDIACEiE. 



Rhus toxicodendron. 



15. Sapdjdace*. 

 Staphylea trifolia. 



16. LEGrruiNos.a. 

 Lupinus perennis. 

 Trifolium arvense. 



' ' pratense. 



" repens. 



*' procumbens. 

 Vicia hirsuta. 

 Circis Canadensis. 



I860.] 



' Barton. 




300 



PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



17. Rosacea. 



Pruuus serotina. 

 Crataegus coccinea. 

 Pyrus arbntifolia. 

 Rubus villosus. 

 •' Canadensis.^ 



18. Onagrace^. 

 CEnothera sinuata. 



19. Saxifrageace^. 

 Saxifraga Pennsylvanica. 

 Heuctera Americana. 



20. USIBELLIFER^. 



Heracleum lanatum. 

 Thaspium barbinode. 



" trifolium. 



" V. atropurpureum. 

 Osmorrhiza longistylis. 



" brevistjlis. 



21. Arauace^. 

 Aralia nudicaculis. 



22. CORSACKS. 



Comus Florida. 



23. Capeifoliacevb. 



Triosteum angustifoleum. 

 Viburnum lentago. 

 " acerifolium. 



24. Valeriaitaces. 

 Fedia radiata. 



' ' olitoria. 



25. Composite. 



Lucantbemum vulgare. 

 Senicio aureus. 

 Krigia Virginica. 

 Cyntbia Virginica. 

 Hieracium venosum. 



26. ERICACRffi. 



Graylusaacia resinosa. 

 Vaccinium stamineum. 



' ' Pennsylvanicum. 



" vaccillans. 



' ' corymbosum. 



" v. glabmm. 



Leucotbe racemosa. 

 Andromeda Mariana. 

 Kalmia latifolia. 



' ' angnstifolia. 

 Azalea nudiflora. 

 Leioptyllum buxifolium. 

 Pyrola cblorantha. 



27. PLAJfTAGINACE^. 



Plantago lanceolata. 

 * ' Virginica. 



28. Lentibulace^. 

 Utricularia subulata. 



29. Orobanchace^. 

 Apbyllon uniflora. 

 Conopholis Americana. 



30. Sceophttlariace^. 



Linaria Canadensis. 

 Veronica Americana. 



" officinalis. 



" perigrina. 



" arvensis. 

 Castillsea coccinea. 



31. Labiate. 

 Salvia lyrata. 



32. BORRAGHTACE^. 



Symphytum officinalis. 

 Jlertensia Virginica. 

 Myosotis palustris. 

 " arvensis. 



33. HydkophtlIiAce^. 

 Hydropbyllum Virginicum. 



34. POLEMONIACEiB. 



Polemonium reptans. 



35. POLYGONACE^. 



Rumex crispus. 

 " acetoseUa. 



36. SANTALACEiE. 



Comandra umbellata. 



37. EUPHOKBIACB^. 



Euphorbia ipecacuanhse. 



38. MTRICACRffi. 



Myrica cerifera. 



39. Arace/e. 

 Arissema dracontium. 



40. Oechidacb*. 



Arethusa bulbosa. 

 Cypripedium acaule. 



41. AmaryU/ISACBA. 



Hypoxis erecta. 



42. Iridace^. 



Iris versicolor. 



[June, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



201 



43. SMILACEiB. 



Smilax rotundifolia. 



" herbacea. 

 Trillium cemuum. 

 Mediola Virginica. 



44. LiLLIACEffl. 



Asparagus officinalis. 

 Polygonatum biflorum. 

 Smilacena racemosa. 



" trifolia. 



" bifolia. 

 Ornithogalnm umbellatum. 

 Allium Canadense. 



45. Melanthace^. 



Uvularia perfoliata. 

 " sessilifolia. 

 Veratrum viride. 



46. COMMELYNACEa. 



Tradescantia Virginica. 



47. ERIOCACLONACEiE. 



Eriocaulon gnaphalodes. 

 Orders 47. 

 Species 130. 



June 9th. 



SPECIAL MEETING. 



Vice President Bridges in the Chair. 



The Vice President announced the object of the meeting to be to 

 express the sense of the Academy at its loss in the death of Mr. 

 GrEORGE W. CARPENTER, its late Treasurer, which occurred on the 7th 

 inst. On motion of Mr. Cassin, a committee consisting of Messrs. 

 Cassin, Vaux, Rand, Bridges and Jeanes, was appointed, who, after 

 a recess, presented the following resolutions, which were unanimously 

 adopted : 



lie&ohed, That the Academy has learned with the deepest regret of 

 the decease of our late esteemed fellow member, George W. Carpen- 

 ter, who has been associated with this Institution for a period of thirty 

 five years, and who, on account of his able and active exertions as a 

 member, and faithful discharge of the responsible duties of Treasurer, 

 during the long official term of thirty-three years, has been strictly 

 identified with, and efficiently co-operative in its progress. 



Resolved, That the members of this Academy do cordially sympa- 

 thize with the bereaved family of Mr. Carpenter, and do hereby tender 

 to them their sincere condolence. 



Resolved, That the Recording Secretary be instructed to send to 

 the family of our deceased member a copy of these resolutions, and 

 that they be published in the daily journals of this city. 



June V2,th. 

 Mr. Wm. S. Vaux in the Chair. 



Forty members present. 



The following papers were presented for publication : 



" Contributions to American Lepidopterology, No. 5," by Bracken- 

 ridge Clemens, M. D. 



'' Heraiptera of the North Pacific Exploring Expedition, under 

 Commanders Rodgers and Ringgold," by P. R. Uhler. 



And were referred to Committees. 

 I860.] 13 




202 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Prof. Robert E. Rogers made some remarks oa the fallacies that arose from 

 the ordinary use of language, when applied to the description of phenomena in 

 a scientific manner. He adverted to the subject of combustion to illustrate his 

 views, and showed that our ordinary explanation of what is called by thi? 

 name, where one of the substances is styled a combustible, and the other a sup- 

 porter of combustion^ a?, for example, in the burning of an ordinary gas light, 

 was fallacious, because we only looiced at it from one point of view. The gas 

 to be burned was comparatively small in quantity, and the oxygen surround- 

 ing it was in large amount ; hence the gas alone appeared to burn — the oxy- 

 gen of the air to support it. When, however, we surround the oxygen with a 

 large quantity of gas, or, so to speak, with an atmosphere of gas, thus reversing 

 entirely the conditions, then the oxygen burns, and the gas becomes a support- 

 er of combustion. We have then no right to call the gas a combustible any 

 ;nore than the oxygen ; or the oxygen a supporter of combustion, any more 

 than the gas. The action between the two bodies is mutual, and the various 

 phenomena witnessed are the result of that mutual action. The Professor 

 then exhibited a beautiful experiment, in which, after first burning the com- 

 mon illuminating gas in the ordinary way, he reversed the conditions, and 

 burned a jet o? common air in an atmosphere of gas. 



June 19;/i. 

 Mr. Lea, President, in the Chair. 



Twenty-one members present. 



The following papers were presented for publication : 



'* On the identity of Ammonites Texanus, Rocmer, and A. vesper- 

 linus Morton,'' by Wm. M. Gabb. 



" Descriptions of three new species of Gorgonidse in the Collection 

 of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia," by George W. 

 Horn. 



And were referred to Committees. 



June 26?7i. 

 Mr. Lea, President, in the Chair. 



Thirty-one members present. 



The following papers were, on the report of the Committees to which 

 tJiey had been referred, ordered to be published in the Proceedings : 



On the Identity of Ammonites Texanas, Boemer, and A. vespertinns, Korton. 

 BY W. M. GABB. 



In 1834, Dr. Morton described an ammonite from Arkansas, in his synopsis, 

 under the name of A. vespertinus. The type, consisting of two fragments 

 of an individual, apparently about fifteen inches in diameter, is in the collec- 

 tion of the Academy. 



As long ago as September of last year, I was struck with the resemblance 

 of these specimens to the species described by Roemer, in " Kreidebildungen 

 von Texas," 1852, under the name of A. Texanus. The originals of 

 Dr. Morton's species were so weathered that I was unable to make out the 

 septum. 



More recently, however, through the kindness of Dr. Moore, I have been 

 enabled to procure an undoubted specimen of A. Texanus, consisting of 

 nearly the whole outer whorl of an individual, about a foot in diameter. On 

 comparing this with Morton's specimens, I became convinced of their identity. 

 The names will therefore have to be A. vespertinus, Morton ; A . 

 Texanusy Roemer, being a synonyme. 



[June, 




KATITRAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 203 



Contributions to American Lepidopterology.— No. 5. 

 BY BRACKENRIDGE CLEMENS, M. J>, 



VYRAUT)J£.—CRAMB1TES. 



Ckambus Fabricius. 



C agitateiius . — Head and thorax pale luteous ; labial palpi soinewliat 

 ^iuscous, white beneath. Fore wings ochreous, tinted with orange, beneath 

 the fold and toward the tip, with a broad silvery white median streak divided 

 longitudinally by a chrome yellow line. The costa is dark fuscous from the 

 base, and beyond the middle are two oblique fusco-luteous lines, the first of 

 which is joined at an angle by another in the middle of the wing. On the 

 middle of the apical third is a silvery white patch, another in the costa above 

 it, a small one in the middle of hind margin, and one at the tip, margined 

 internally by a small fuscous patch. Along the nervules, above and beneath 

 the middle of the wing, are fuscous lines containing dull silvery scales, with 

 a subterminal angulated silvery line, and a few marginal dots beneath the 

 middle of the wing. Cilia silvery-hued. Hind wings whitish. 



C. laqueatellus . — Head luteous. Thorax and labial palpi fuscous, the 

 latter whitish beneath. Fore wings with two silvery white streaks, separated 

 by a fuscous streak ; the upper silveiy streak is margined on the costa witli 

 fuscous, and the lower one, which extends beyond the apical third, is edged 

 on the fold by the same hue. Beneath the fold, the wing is pale yellowish 

 with a fuscous streak along submedian nervure. The apical portion of the 

 wing is tinted with ochreous-yellow, in which the nervules are streaked with 

 silvery ; on the costa, near the tip, is an oblique silvery streak, dark mar- 

 gined on both sides. The subterminal silvery line is much angulated, and 

 beneath the middle of the wing, is a large marginal whitish patch, containing 

 black lines on the nervules. The tip of the wing is silvery, with an ochreous- 

 yellow patch. Cilix silvery-hued. Hind wings pale fuscous, cilia white. 



C. involutellus . — Labial palpi dark fuscous, whitish at the base be- 

 neath. Head and thorax dark yellowish with a brassy hue. Fore wings 

 fosco-ochreous, with a brassy lustre, with a median silvery white streak 

 pointed behind and extended nearly to the hind margin. The subterminal 

 line is silvery, with a short white streak on each side of it on the costa. At 

 the tip is a small white spot, and on the hinder margin beneath the middle is 

 a whitish patch, containing marginal black dots. Cilia silvery-hued. Hind 

 wings pale bluish white. 



In some specimens the general hue of the fore wings is paler than the 

 above. 



C. camurellus. Labial palpi fuscous, whitish above- Head whitish. 

 Fore wings ratherj pale, dull reddish fuscous or pale ochreous, dusted with 

 fuscous, with an irregular patch of fuscous scales on the middle of the wing, 

 where it is crossed by an angulated, rather ferruginous line, and one of the 

 same hue near the hinder margin, edged externally by dull silvery. The 

 nervules are faintly marked by silvery lines, and on the hind margin is a 

 row of black dots. Cilia dark but silvery-hued. Hind wings grayish. 



C. luteolellus. — Labial palpi pale yellowish, dusted externally with 

 fuscous. Head, thorax and fore wings yellowish white, sometimes dusted 

 with fuscous, with a patch of fuscous scales on the end of the disc, and an 

 irregular line of the same hue near hinder margin. The hind margin marked 

 by a slender dark brown line ; cilia yellowish white. Hind wings fuscous, 

 cilia whitish. 



I860.] 




204 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



C. caliginosellus . — Head, thorax and labial palpi dark fuscons. Fore 

 wings dark fuscous, with two angiilated umber brown lines, one about the 

 middle of the wing, and rather indistinct, and one near the hind margin ; on 

 the hinder margin is a blackish brown line ; cilia fnscoua. Hind wings rather 

 dark fuscous ; cilia whitish. 



C. mutabilis. — Grayish fuscous, varied beneath tlie fold with lateous. 

 Labial palpi dark fuscous. Fore wings with a grayish median stripe, not ex- 

 tending beyond the disk, more or less tinted with luteous beneath the fold, 

 and with fuscous along the base of the costa. On the end of the median ner- 

 vure is a dark brown dot, and sometimes streaked with dark fuscons beneath 

 the nervure. The subterminal line is faint and bluish, usually containing a 

 row of faint brownish dots. Hind wings yellowish, gray or pale fuscous. 



This species appears to be highly variable, the general hue being sometimes 

 pale ochreous, and in specimens somewhat worn, scarcely to be identified. 



C. Tulgi vagellus. — Labial palpi luteous, dark fuscons externally. 

 Head and thorax luteous ; tegulae with a fuscous stripe. Fore wings luteous, 

 with numerous fuscous streaks in atoms, along the veins and two in tlie disk. 

 Hind margin with a row of terminal black dots ; cilia golden hued. Hind 

 wings yellowish ; cilia whitish. 



C. albellus. — Pure white, with a row of black dots on the hind margin 

 of the fore wings, with an oblique pale yellow acutely angulated line from 

 near the middle of costa, and an angulated silvery subterminal line margined 

 on both sides with pale yellowish. Above the marginal dots at the base of 

 the cilia is a short blackish marginal line. Hind wings pale brownish -gray or 

 whitish. 



C. elegans. — Whitish. Fore wings at the base of costa rather broadly 

 streaked with brown, having a brassy lustre, with a patch of brown scales on 

 the inner margin near the base, and a short, curved streak of the same hue 

 about its middle, which forms with its opposite when the wings are closed a 

 semi-circular dorsal line, beliind which the wing is dusted with brown. On 

 the apical third of the wing is a broad, brown band, broadest on the costa, 

 ■\vhere it encloses a small white spot, and with a straight brown subterminal 

 line exterior to it, on a silvery white ground. The hinder margin is dotted 

 with black points ; cilia silvery. Hind wings pale brownish white. 



Variety. Costa slightly touched at the base with dark fuscous. No distinct 

 !)road band on the apical third, but the costa from nearly the middle, dark 

 fuscons, containing two small, white costal spots. The subterminal line 

 whitish, margined on each side with fuscons. The spot on middle of inner 

 margin ratlier diffuse, not linear, and the wing behind it but little dusted. 

 Hind wings whitish. 



C. Girardellus. — Labial palpi pale fuscous externally, above and be- 

 neath silvery white. Fore wings silvery white, with an orange yellow stripe 

 beneath the median nervure, somewhat turned upwards at it8 tip toward the 

 apex of the wing, and extended on the sides of the thorax to tlie head ; it is 

 slightly margined toward the costa of the wing with dark reddish fuscous. 

 The hind margin is dotted with blackish dots, and at the base of the eilia is a 

 dark brown marginal line ; cilia silvery. Head wings white. 



Mass. From Dr. Chas. Girard. 



C. auratellus. — Labial palpi and antennre orange yelljTW, the former 

 silvery white above. Fore wings silvery white, with an orange yellow band, 

 from the apical third of the costa to the middle of inner margin, where it is 

 broadest, and somewhat produced along the costa toward the tip, and the 

 inner margin to the anal angle. Cilia orange yellow, with a dark reddish 

 fuscous, somewhat crenated basal line. Head wings white. 



Mass. From Mr. 9. H. Scudder, Jr. 



[June, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 205 



Chilo Zincken. 

 C. lo ngirost r allu s. — Labial palpi, head and thorax oclireous white. 

 Fore wings pale yellowish-white, with a fuscous line from the tip to the inner 

 margin. Hind wings pale ochreous white. Abdomen tufted at the tip. 



C. melinellus . — Ochreous yellow. Fore wings with a pale fuscous 

 streak along the middle of the fold, extended nearly to the tip, and a faint 

 oblique line of the same hue, from the tip, not extended to the hind margin. 

 Hind wings pale yellowish-white. Abdomen tufted. 



C. aquilellus. — Dark fuscous. Fore wings with an ochreous streak 

 along the submedian nervure and its nervales, and those beneath likewise 

 touched with the same hue. Hind wings yellowish fuscous. 



FHYCITES. 

 Nefhopteeyx Hiibner. 



N. undulatella . — Labial palpi, head and thorax grayish fuscous. Fore 

 wings grayish fuscous, with an angulated white line crossing the disk, some- 

 times obsolete above the fold, margined with dark brownish, and a subtermi- 

 nal line of the same hue dark margined on both sides. At the end of the 

 disk is a short blackish transverse line, slightly margined exteriorly with 

 whitish. Hinder margin tipped with blackish ; cilia grayish fuscous. Hind 

 wings grayish testaceous ; cilia paler. 



Penna., Canada and Mass. From Dr. Chas. Girard, Washington, D. C. 



Early in October, I found pupae of this insect at Niagara Falls, on the Ca- 

 nada side, under shelter of loosened portions of the bark of the American 

 Elm. They were enclosed in a cocoon of silk, mixed with particles of bark. 

 On the same tree I took a number of larvae which were descending the trunk 

 to undergo pupation. I did not, however, obtain images from any of the 

 specimens. The body was nearly uniform in diameter, with the ordinary- 

 number of feet. Head as broad as the body and dark green. Body dark 

 green, between the segments yellowish and dotted with yellow ; first rings 

 with two black dots on the sides. 



N.? u Imi-arr o so rella . — Female. Grayish-fuscous. Fore wings with 

 a slender, dark fuscous angulated line, edged on the costa internally by a pale 

 grayish spot, and on the inner margin externally by another of the same hue. 

 The subterminal line pale gray, dark margined internally. Hind wings pale 

 brownish, darker on the margin. 



The larva is found on the American elm in August. The head is pale 

 brown, dotted with dark brown. The body dark green, with a dorsal, double 

 line of pale green patches, and a slight subdorsal and stigmatal line of the 

 same hue. On the 1st, 2d, 4th, 5th and 10th rings, are brown subdorsal 

 points. It weaves a web on the surface of the leaves, feeding beneath it. 

 The pupa is contained in a web between united leaves, in the vivarium. It 

 becomes a pupa about the middle of August, and an imago about twelve or 

 fourteen days after transformation. 



Pempelia? Hiibner. 



Male. Labial palpi moderately long, scarcely exceeding the vertex ; Jirst and 

 second joints thick, third extremely short and slender. Maxillary palpi with a 

 short pencil of hairs. Tongue nearly as long as the thorax beneath : scaled at 

 base. 



P.? virgatella . — Brownish luteous. Fore wings varied with pale gray- 

 ish toward the base and tip, with dull pale reddish at the base and middle of 

 inner margin ; on the middle of the costa is a blackish blotch, containing a 

 short line of the same hue, and opposite, an angulated whitish line, with few 

 black spots exterior to the costal line ; a blotch of the same hue towards the 



1860.J 




206 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



base of submediau nervure, and a pale grayish subtenninal line margined inter- 

 nally by a blackish line, and externally by black streaks on the nervules. 

 The internal black margin is edged on the costa and middle of the wing with 

 pale grayish. Hinder margin spotted with black ; cilia grayish fuscous. Hind 

 wings pale brownish. 



P.? sub cae si ella. — Male. Pale bluish gray, dusted with fuscous. Fore 

 wings with a reddish luteous band at the base, broadest on the inner margin, 

 and a rather broad, dark fuscous band on the basal third. The subterminal 

 line is pale grayish, edged behind by dark fuscous. Hind wings pale brownish. 



Ephestia ? 



E. ostrinella . — Reddish-purple varied with blackish. Fore wings with 

 the basal third and the apical portion reddish purple, with a broad blackish 

 band in the middle edged internally by a straight whitish line, and an exte- 

 rior costal patch of the same hue containing two blackish dots on a short 

 streak. The subterminal line is pale grayish. Hind wings pale brownish 

 gray. 



The larvae lives in the fruit heads of Sumack, passing the winter in the 

 larval state. It is dark reddish-brown, head brown ; cervical and terminal 

 shields blackish brown. The body is supplied with a few isolated hairs, and 

 one or two rows of obscure dark brown subdorsal dots. 



The larvfe make galleries through the fruit heads, and desert them in the 

 spring, to form their cocoons, which are slight silken webs, and appear as 

 images about the middle of April. 



E. Zeae. — Tinea Zeae, Fitch, Rept. 2d, 321. Fore wings with the basal 

 third pale ochreous-yellow or yellowish-white, and the remainder fuscous, 

 with a reddish-luteous spot on the end of the disk, or dark grayish-fuscous 

 varied with reddish luteous. 



The larvse is a frequent inhabitant of houses, and feeds on a variety of dry 

 c^oods, rye, corn, clover seed, on garlic heads, preserves, especially those con- 

 tained in jars. The seeds are bound together with a silken web in which 

 galleries are left. It would be well if Dr. Fitch changed the specific name of 

 this insect as corn is by no means its favorite or usual food. 



The labial palpi of the imago are more decidedly porrected than in the 

 foregoing species, but I do not think the difference between them is generic. 

 I have no males of Z e a e in my collection and do not know whether they have 

 the tuft beneath the fore wing. 



Lanthaphk. 



Male. The discoidal cell of the fore wings is narrow and appears to be un- 

 closed. The costal and subcostal nervures run very close to each other, if 

 not united, in the basal third of the wing ; the former, from union with the 

 first subcosto-marginal branch much thickened, or indistinctly furcate. The 

 subcostal subdivides into two branches near the basal third of the wing, the 

 upper one subdividing again in the middle of the wing, sending a branch with 

 a long fork to the costa near the tip and a simple branch to the apex. The 

 lower branch is thickened towards its origin, simple, and is the post-apical 

 nervule. The median is thickened towards its end, and is four-branched. 

 Hind wings neuration pyraliform. 



Head with ocelli. Eyes large and salient. Labial palpi ascending, applied 

 closely to the front and with the tips much elevated above the vertex ; first 

 and second joints very short, first almost rudimental ; the third very long, 

 folded longitudinally like a sheath. Maxillary palpi rather short, with a pencil 

 of very long, silky hairs, capable of being expanded, and carried concealed in 

 the sheath formed by the third joint of labial palpi. Antennae ciliated beneath ; 

 l>a3al joint thick, with a short horn-like appendage behind having a tuft of 

 hairs. Fore wings with a small discal vitreous spot, and the under surface from 



[June, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 207 



the base of the costa to the middle, thickly covered with long scales placed trans- 

 versely. 



Female. Fore wings without discal vitreous spot. Discoidal cell closed by 

 an arcuate nervure ; witli costal and subcostal nervures distinct, the latter 

 with a single marginal branch from the cell, and at the apical third of the 

 wing subdividing into an apical and marginal branch, which is furcate ; the 

 subcosto post-apical from the superior angle of the cell. Submediau four 

 branched. 



With ocelli. Labial palpi ascending, with tips but little elevated above the 

 vertex; nearly cylindrical ; second joint somewlxat thickened and long, ex- 

 tending above the eyes ; the thiri short, slender and pointed. Maxillary 

 short, without pencil of hairs. Antennae simple and setaceous : basal joint 

 thick, without appendage behind. 



The tongue in both sexes is scaled at the base, and moderately long ; and 

 the fore wings with distinct strigse and tufts of scales. 



This genus appears to be congeneric with Acrobasis of Zeller. 



L. pi a tan ell a. — Labial palpi pale brownish-red, touched in front with 

 pale gray. Head and thorax brownish-red, the latter varied with grayish and 

 dark fuscous. Fore wings grayish fuscous, with the costa touched with 

 brownish red, and a patch of the same hue in the female, near the base of the 

 inner margin containing a tuft of raised scales ; in the male, blackish brown, 

 touched with brownish red. The base of the wing is whitish. In the middle 

 of the wing is a broad white band, obsolete toward the costa, with two straight 

 blackish-brown lines internally, and in the male shaded internally with the 

 same hue. The subterminal line is irregular and whitish, dark margined 

 internally. The hinder margin of the wing is touched with blackish-brown. 

 Hind wings pale brown, somewhat darker toward the hinder margin. 



The larvae is tortriciform in appearance. Head pale brown, mottled with 

 whitish. Body with isolated hairs, pale green, with a dark brown dorsal line 

 and a fainter stigmatal line of the same hue, or pale reddish, with a brown 

 dorsal line on each side of the vascular. 



It makes a web on the under surface of the leaf of Sycamore, (Platanus o c- 

 ciden talis), drawing it together and living within a silken tube. 



The cocoon is woven on the surface of the ground, in form of a flattened oval, 

 consisting of brown silk covered exteriorly with grains of earth. The larvre 

 remain in it unchanged during the winter. It may be taken in July, and 

 enters the pupa state during the latter part of August, to appear as an imago 

 in May or June. 



L. asperateUa. — Labial palpi blackish brown, varied with whitish. 

 Thorax pale grayish, varied with gi-ayish or dark gray. Fore wings dark 

 brownish-gray, with a blackish brown tuft of scales in the basal part of the 

 fold, and a smaller one of the same hue on the disk above it, a whitish me- 

 dian band, sometimes almost obsolete, containing on the disk a small black- 

 ish-brown tuft in the female, with an internal crenated blackish line, and 

 shaded toward the base with blackish ; on its external margin is a line of 

 raised scales. The subterminal line is pale grayish, angulated and margined 

 internally by a blackish line, and externally by a fainter one produced into 

 points on the nervules. The hinder marginal line is black. Sometimes in 

 the female the base of the wing is whitish, slightly touched with luteous. 



Penna. and Mass. From Dr. Chas. Girard. 



TINEINA. 



LiTHOcoLLETis. (See Paper No. 2.) 



L. Fitchella. — Argyromlges quercifoUella, Fitch, Report v.. Section 

 327. Head, face and thorax silvery white. Labial palpi tipped with pale 

 ochreous. Antennae pale saffron ; basal joint silvery white. Fore wings pale 



I860.] 




208 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



reddish-saffron, with a slight brassy hue. Along the costa are five silvery tvhite 

 costal streaks, all black margined internally except the first, which is very 

 oblique and continued along the costa to the base of the wing. All the costal 

 streaks are short, except the first. On the inner margin are two conspicuous 

 silvery dorsal streaks, dark margined internally, the first, very large, and placed 

 near the middle of the inner margin, the second opposite the third costal 

 streak. At the tip is a small, round black spot, placed above the middle of 

 the wing ; cilia silvery gray, tinted with saffron. Hind wings grayish-fuscous, 

 cilia paler. 



The specific name used by Dr. Fitch being already in use to designate a 

 European species of this genus, it was necessary to change it. I feel pleasure, 

 therefore, in dedicating it to the industrious observer who first described it, 

 and who is adding so much to our knowledge of entomological Natural His- 

 tory. 



L. tubiferella. — Head silvery white. Antennae fuscous, slightly annu- 

 lated with white ; basal joint pale saffron. Fore wings pale saffron, with two 

 silvery white, moderately broad bands, black margined externally, one near 

 the base and the other on the middle of the wing, and both somewhat oblique ; 

 cilia of the general hue. Hind wings dark grayish, cilia the same. 



Tlie larva belongs to the second larval group of this genus, but the body 

 much more contracted than that of any other larva I have seen. Its form is 

 almost that of a flattened ovoid, the rings separated by deep incisions, and each 

 forming in the sides a projecting mammilla. 



The larva mines the upper surface of the leaves of oaks in September, and 

 doubtless also in the summer months. The mine is a linear tract, sometimes 

 curved or wavy, gradually increasing in breadth from the beginning to the 

 end, or as the larva increases in length, with the "frass" deposited on each 

 side of the tract and marking its outlines by two black lines. The position 

 of the larva within the mine is likewise a peculiar one, as it is always placed 

 transversely to its course, and hence the deposition of the "frass" on the 

 sides, and the gradual increase in breadth as the larva grows in length. Its 

 head is blackish brown ; the body pale greenish, with pale brown dorsal ma- 

 culae, darker on their edges. It undergoes transformation in the end of the 

 mine, preparing a circular cell or slightly silk-lined cavity, and leaves the 

 last larval cast outside of it. The fall brood of larva become imagos about 

 the middle of May. 



L. cratfegella . — This insect is found on the apple and wild cherry, (P. 

 serotina), without undergoing any variation, which I can detect. I thought 

 beyond doubt, that that in the leaf of wild cherry, must be a distinct species, 

 for the larva has a habit unusual to larvse of this group, and which I have not 

 noticed in those on the thorn and apple, although, doubtless, they correspond. 

 The habit I refer to in wild cherry miners, consists in deserting an old mine to 

 form a new one, reminding one strongly of the early habits of the Ornix larvae. 

 The larva enters along the midrib to form a new mine, which I have found in 

 various stages of advancement, besides the old and tenantless mine in another 

 portion of the leaf. 



TiscHERiA. (See Paper No. 2.) 



T. malifoliella . — Head and antennae shining dark brown ; face ochre- 

 ous. Fore wings uniform, shining dark brown with a purplish tinge, slightly 

 dusted with pale ochreous ; cilia of the general hue. Hind wings dark gray ; 

 cilia with a rufous tinge. 



The larva mines the upper surface of the apple leaf. The mine is flat, at 

 least until the larva enters the pupa state, and begins as a slender ivhite line, 

 dilating as it increases, and is ultimately formed into an irregular brownish 

 colored patch, which is sometimes extended over the beginning. This is then 

 shown on the separated epidermis as a white line or streak. The head of the 



[June, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 209 



larva is brown ; the body uniform pale green ; first segment brownish, with a 

 short, vascular greenish streak. When the pupation begins the leaf is thrown 

 into a fold, which is carpeted with silk, and the pupa lies within it. This 

 state begins about the latter part of September, and the imago appears early 

 in May. 



Antispila. (See Paper No. 3.) 



A. Isabella. — KenA golden. Antennae purplish brown. Fore wings pwr- 

 plisk brown, loithout violet and greenish reflections, with a pale golden band near 

 the base, inclined toward the base, not constricted on the fold, but broadest 

 on the inner margin. Near the tip of the wing is a small pale golden costal 

 spot, and one of the same hue nearly opposite on the inner margin. The 

 hind wings have a greenish reflection ; in Nysssefoliella, they are rather deep 

 purple. 



The larva mines the leaf of Isabella grape in September. Its head is brown ; 

 the body yellowish white, with a few black dorsal spots on a dark green ground, 

 on the middle segments and beneath a spot on the fourth and fifth segments : 

 first segment dark green. It cuts out a very large, nearly round disk, during 

 the latter part of September, and appears as an imago in the latter part of 

 May. 



A. viticordifoliella . — The larva mines the leaves of wild grapes. Its 

 head is brown ; the body yellowish green, without dorsal or ventral spots ; 

 the first ring brown. It may be taken in August, and in the beginning of 

 September it cuts out a small oval disk and enters the pupa state. I have not 

 succeeded in breeding the imago, but have no doubt it is specifically distinct 

 from any heretofore described. 



ASPIDISCA. 

 (See Proceedings, Jan'y., 1880, p. 11.) 

 The diagnosis of this genus was made from two specimens of A. s p 1 e n d o r i f e - 

 r e 1 1 a. In insects so extremely small and fragile, even when relaxed by mois- 

 ture, it is no simple task to make a correct diagnosis from a single examina- 

 tion. The reader will therefore please correct in the January number of the 

 Proceedings as follows : Labial palpi extremely short and slender, much separated. 

 Tongue naked and scarcely as long as the anterior coxce. 



A. lucifluella. — Head silvery. Antennae rather dark fuscous. Fore 

 wings silvery from the base to the middle, and thence to the tip dark fuscous 

 varied with golden. Near the tip are three short, costal silvery strealcs adjacent 

 to each other ; the first is longer than the others, with converging dark mar- 

 gins, and a golden patch on its internal side ; the second with straight dark 

 margins, and a golden patch beneath and adjoining it ; the third is unmar- 

 gined except by the external margin of the second streak which separates 

 them. Opposite the first costal streak is a dorsal, tapering streak of the same 

 hue, and placed in the dark fuscous portion of the wing. From the second 

 golden spot to the middle of the hinder margin is an oblique silvery streak, 

 sometimes separated into two spots. At the extreme apex is a deep black 

 triangular spot ; the cilia grayish, tinged with pale brownish. 



The larva may be found in September and October mining the leaves of 

 hickories. The head, first and second segments are brownish, with a reddish 

 tinge ; body brownish-green, with a dark green vascular line and three black- 

 ish dorsal spots on the middle segments. Early in October the larva cuts out 

 an oval disk and enters the pupa state, to appear as an imago early in June. 

 The perfect insect is larger than splendoriferella. 



Parectopa. 



The fore wings are lanceolate. The disk is acutely closed behind, at the 

 apical third of the wing and narrow. No costal nervure. The subcostal sends 



1860.1 




210 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



oflF quite near the base of the wing a long marginal branch, and near its end. 

 two other branches to the costa. From the acute apex of the disk arises the 

 aj^ical branch, which, near its origin sends a branch to the costa, and about 

 its middle becomes bifid, sending one branch to the costa near the tip, and 

 the other to the inner margin beneath it. The median is three-branched, the 

 posterior vein arising somewhat interiorly to the costal origin of the second 

 marginal, and is most distinct on the inner margin, being faintly indicated from 

 its middle to its origin. 



Hind wings very narrow, almost setiform. The disk unclosed. The costal 

 nervure is well indicated and long, reaching almost to the tip of the wing. 

 The subcostal is furcate beyond the middle of the wing and is attenuated to- 

 ward the base almost from its bifurcation ; it runs close to the costal trunk. 

 The median nervure is furcate within the middle of the wing, on the inner 

 margin. 



Head with long, loose scales above, forming a slight tuft between the an- 

 tennae. Forehead rounded. Face narrow and short, somewhat retreating and 

 smooth. No ocelli. Eyes small, round, salient and naked. Labial palpi 

 moderately long, slender, smooth, pointed and drooping, (in the living insect 

 most probably ascending) ; second joint slightly thickened at its end. Max- 

 illary palpi not perceptible. Antennae inserted on the front ; filiform and sim- 

 ple ; basal joint scarcely thicker than the stalk and short ; nearly as long as 

 the fore wings. Tongue naked, slender, nearly as long as the thorax beneath. 



P. 1 esped ezsefol iell a. — Head and face white. Labial palpi, second 

 joint dark fuscous, the third white. Antennae dark grayish fuscous. Thorax 

 blackish brown. Fore wings blackish brown, with three silvery white spots 

 along the inner margin, one almost at the base of the wing, one at the apical 

 third, and the other intermediate between them. On the costa are two silvery 

 white spots, the first a little exterior to the second dorsal; the second costal 

 opposite the third dorsal. Along the hinder margin is a black hinder margi- 

 nal line, or two decided converging black streaks, one from the costa and the 

 other from the inner margin, meeting at the tip where there is a small silvery 

 white spot. The cilia along the hinder margin are silvery white tipped tcith 

 blackish, and along the inner margin dark gray. Hind wings dark fuscous, 

 cilia the same. 



The larva mines the leaves of bush-clover, (Lespedeza violacea) early in 

 September. It makes a whitish blotch mine, with a number of narrow, lat- 

 eral mines, or rather wide galleries running out from it, on the upper surface 

 of the leaf. The blotch is chiefly in the middle of the leaf, the larva mining 

 along the midrib in the first instance, and when disturbed it conceals itself 

 by retreating to the midrib, and applies itself along the course of it. Hence 

 tenanted mines may easily be mistaken for deserted ones. The mine never 

 contains " frass," and the larva seems to leave one capriciously, whilst it is 

 yet small in extent, to form a new one ; this it does by penetrating the under 

 cuticle of the leaf. In the course of larval life, many new mines are formed 

 and the insect is a troublesome one to breed. The larva is cylindrical, slightly 

 tapering from the first segment, and the body bright, concolorous green. It 

 deserts its food-plant about the middle of September to form its cocoonet ; 

 this is woven upon some substance on the ground, in the vivarium, in a pucker 

 on a leaf, or under a turned-down portion of the edge, and is white. It appears 

 as an imago early in May. 



I have no good description of this larva in my notes, but have of another 

 having precisely similar habits, and in appearance very like it. It mines a 

 species of Desmodium plants, nearly related to Lespedeza, and is probably the 

 same insect, or at least of the same genus as the above. The body of this 

 larva tapers posteriorly ; it is submoniliform and slightly flattened, with the 

 segments roundly mammillated on the sides. The feet are three, the abdomi- 

 nal three and the terminal one pair. The head is pale brown ; the body 



[June, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 211 



briglit green, tinged with yellowish. The larvae desert their mines to form, 

 new ones, hence they are never extensive, sometimes blotches, and again ir- 

 regular galleries along the midrib, with lateral branches. The "frass" is 

 voided at the entrance opening beneath. I was not successful in breeding the 

 larvae on Desmodium. 



Bpcculatkix Zeller. 

 (See Paper No. 3, Proceedings, Jan., 1860. The authority there given ia a mistake.) 



B. pomif olie 1 la. — Head and face very pale ochreous, with the tuft 

 tipped with brownish. Antennae pale ochreous, dotted above with dark fus- 

 cous. Fore wings whitish, tinged with pale yellowish, freely dusted with 

 brown. On the middle of inner margin is a large dark brown, oval patch, 

 forming, with its opposite when the wings are closed, a conspicuous, nearly 

 round dorsal patch ; a streak of the same hue. from the costa opposite it, run- 

 ning to the inner angle of the wing and tapering from the costa where it is 

 broadest. At the tip is a round, dark brown apical spot, and in the cilia a 

 dark brown hinder marginal line. Hind wings pale brownish ochreous, cilia 

 the same. 



The larva feeds externally on the leaf of apple, at least at the time it was 

 taken, in the latter part of September. It is cylindrical and submoniliform ; 

 tapers anteriorly and posteriorly ; with punctiform points and isolated hairs, 

 first segment with rather abundant dorsal hairs ; thoracic feet three, abdomi- 

 nal four and very short, terminal one pair. Head small, ellipsoidal, brown ; 

 body dark yellowish green, tinged with reddish anteriorly ; hairs blackish and 

 short. 



Early in October the larva enters the pupa state, weaving an elongated, 

 dirty white, ribbed cocoon, and appears as in imago during the latter part of 

 the following April or early in May. 



B. agnella . — Head and face sordid white, the latter touched with fuscous. 

 Antennae dark fuscous. Fore wings whitish, washed with pale luteous-brown, 

 which prevails especially towards the tip and along the fold. About the 

 middle of inner margin, on the fold, is a small dark fuscous mark, consisting 

 of a few scales. The costa is dark fuscous from the base, and about the middle 

 of the wing gives oflf a short oblique streak of the same hue, and another 

 near the apical third, which is fuscous near the costa and pale luteous-brown 

 beyond it, and margined exteriorly with white, especially on the costa. Tlie 

 long scales in the cilia are tipped with dark brown. Hind wings brownish, 

 cilia brownish with a rufous tinge. 



Taken on wing about the middle of May. 



Machimia. 



Fore wings with the hind margin obliquely pointed. The subcostal nervure 

 gives off a marginal branch near the basal third, and at the end of the disk 

 subdivides into four nerviiles, of which the apical is furcate near the tip. 

 The median is four-branched, the medio-posterior remote from the penulti- 

 mate. The submedian is furcate at the base. In the disk is a long, faintly 

 indicated secondary cell. The neuration of the hind wings like that of De- 

 pressaria. The discal nervure is oblique. The interior basal angle rounded, 

 and the margin slightly excised behind it. 



Head and forehead between the antennae, shaggy. Face rather smooth, 

 depressed and retreating. No ocelli. Eyes small, oval and salient. Labial 

 palpi rather long, remote from the face, slender, curved and ascending ; second 

 joint roughened loith scales; the third smooth, aciculate, and about one-third 

 less long than the second. Maxillary palpi very short. Antennae about one- 

 half as long as the fore wing, simple and filiform ; basal joint short. Tongue 

 scaled, about as long as the anterior coxae. 



1800.] 




212 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



M. tentoriferella . — Labial palpi pale yellowish ; basal half of the 

 second joint blackish or dark fuscous. Fore wings reddish ochreons, with 

 dispersed dark fuscous atoms. The extreme base of the costa is blackish, 

 from a small black spot on its edge ; with three blackish brown spots arranged 

 in a triangle in the middle of the wing, one about the middle of the disk, 

 another on its end, and one in the fold beneath them ; cilia rather long and 

 russet colored. Hind wings rufo-fuscoas, along the discal portion of costa, 

 pale ochreons. 



The larva tapers posteriorly from the head ; terminal legs short, placed 

 posteriorly, projecting beyond the shield; abdominal legs short ; with papili- 

 form points in squares, each bearing a hair ; body cylindric and sub-monili- 

 form. The head is large, carried horizontally ; somewhat flattened above, but 

 rounded ; cervical shield doubtfully indicated, its color dark green. Body 

 dark green, at first uniform, but after the last moult, a double yellowish- 

 green dorsal line is added. 



It may be found during the latter part of July, on the leaves of wild cherry, 

 oaks and hickories. On the underside of the leaf it throws a closely woven 

 sheet or web from the midrib to the side of the leaf, and draws it into a shallow 

 fold. This sheet or tent is not much longer than the larva itself, open at both 

 ends, transparent, shining and vitreous. Beneath this it rests during the 

 day, and in the night leaves it to feed on the edges of the leaf, retreating to 

 its cover if alarmed. To this it clings most tenaciously if disturbed, thrust- 

 ing its head from beneath it, shaking it from side to side, or if disturbed in 

 front, retreats, without leaving it, and defends itself stoutly with its mandi- 

 bles. Its length is about half an inch. When it leaves a leaf to form 

 a new tent on another, it always devours the silk of the one it deserts. 



During the latter part of Au,?ust or first of September it enters the pupa 

 state and forms its cocoon, by turning down a portion of a leaf, carpeting it 

 with silk and binding its edges closely. The opening left at the ends, corres- 

 ponding to the tail of the pupa, is closed densely, and the other with loose 

 silken threads. The pupa case is very dark reddish brown, and it remains in 

 situ when the imago escapes. The antennae-cases as long as the wing-cases ; 

 abdomen rather short and blunt ; cylindrico-conical. The imago appears 

 during the latter part of September. 



PSILOCORSIS. 



The neuration of the wings differs in scarcely any respect from the foregoing 

 genus, except that the medio-posterior vein is not remote from the penultimate. 

 The posterior veins of the median are very much curved. The structure of 

 the fore wings in both these groups is much like that in the Tortrices. 



Head smooth. Face rounded. Ocelli none. Eyes large, round and salient. 



Labial palpi long, remote from the face, recurved, rather slender ; second 

 joint rather flattened, smooth, with appressed scales ; third smooth, slender and 

 pointed, nearly as long as the second joint. Maxillary palpi short, distinct. 

 Antennae about one half as long as the fore wings, simple and filiform ; basal 

 joint rather long and subclavate. Tongue one-half as long as thorax beneath, 

 scaled. 



P. quercicella . — Head and thorax dark yellowish-brown. Labial palpi, 

 second joint ochreous, with a black line on the edge beneath ; third black, 

 with two yellowish white stripes in front. Antennae ochreous, with a black 

 line above, terminating in black spots ; basal joint with two black stripes in 

 front. Fore wings yellowish brown, varied with bla,ckish irregular striae, 

 chiefly from the costa, with a black dot on the end of the disk. The posterior 

 margin is tipped with blackish ; the cilia are yellowish brown, containing two 

 dark fuscous hinder marginal lines. Posterior wings pale ochreous, cilia the 

 same. 



The larva tapers from, the thu-d segment anteriorly and posteriorly ; flattened 



[June 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 213 



above and beneath, submoniliform ; no dorsal papilliform points, but two 

 rows on the sides ; abdominal and terminal feet very short, the latter placed 

 posteriorly. Head small, cordate, horizontal. The body is yellowish or pale 

 greenish, the head, 1st, 2d, and 3d segments black. 



It binds the leaves of oaks together, in August and September, and picks 

 out the parenchyma between the network of veins. In the latter part of Sep- 

 tember it weaves a slight cocoon between two leaves, (in nature it is probably 

 made elsewhere than between the leaves of its food plant), and becomes a ra- 

 ther short, tliick pupa, with the antennae cases moniliform and longer than 

 the wing-cases, beyond the end of which they project as an obtuse spine. It 

 appeai-s as an imago in March or April. 



Labial palpi very long and recurved, the tips extending hack as far as prothorax, 

 but remote from the face and head. 



P. reflexel 1 a.— Head brownish, tinged with ferruginous. Labial palpi 

 dark ochreous, with a black line on the edge of second joint beneath, and 

 three black lines on the third, one in front and one on each side. Antennae 

 dark ochreous, annulated with dark fuscous ; basal joint with two black stripes 

 in front. Fore wings dull ochreous, profusely dusted with reddish fuscous ; 

 cilia short and dark colored. Hind wings fuscous. 



This species very closely resembles, physically, M. tentoriferella. The 

 labial palpi are longer, however, more recurved, and the second joint perfectly 

 smooth, whilst in tentoriferella it is roughened with scales. 



Both these genera likewise closely approach the European genus Phibolocera, 

 and it is not impossible that one of them may be really identical with it, not- 

 withstanding the longer antennte and shorter third joint of the labial palpi in 

 the European species. 



Menesta. 



Fore wings obtusely pointed above the middle, elongate-ovate. Disk closed 

 by a very faint nervure. The subcostal subdivides into five nervules, the first 

 of which is from the middle of the disk, the foxirth being the apical, and the 

 fifth the post apical from the middle of the disk behind. The median is three- 

 branched, the medio-posterior being opposite the third subcostal vein. The 

 fold is thickened at its end and runs into the baaal third of the median. The 

 submedian curved, and sliortly furcate at the base. 



Hind wings somewhat trapezoidal, slightly emarginate on the hind margin 

 beneath the tip. The discoidal cell unclosed. The costal nervure is long 

 and extended nearly to the tip. The subcostal somewhat attenuated at its 

 base, distinct from the costal, and furcate at the apical third of the wing. The 

 median three-branched, the superior and central veins on a common stalk. 



Size small. Head and face smooth, minutely scaled. Forehead and face 

 rounded and very broad. Ocelli none. Eyes vertically placed, minute, oval, 

 salient. Labial palpi smooth, slender, curved and ascending equal to the 

 vertex ; second joint slightly thickened towards its end ; third very slender, 

 pointed, and not more than one-half as long as the second. Maxillary palpi 

 very short, distinct. Antennse m^^ch separated at their base, about one-half 

 as long as tlie fore wings, filiform and ciliated beneath microscopically, ivith 

 o^ip, hair to each article ; basal joint very short, scarcely thicker than the 

 stalk. Tongue scaled at the base, slender, and about as long as the anterior 

 coxae. 



M. tortriciformella . — Labial palpi fuscous, towards the base whitish. 

 Head, antennse, and face dark luteo-fuscous, the latter whitish beneath. Fore 

 wings dark brownish with a purplish hue, with a small lunate white spot on 

 the end of the disk. Hind wings dark fuscous, cilia the same. Feet pale 

 yellowish, the ends of middle and posterior tibiae touched with fuscous ; the 

 middle tarsi fuscous externally, and the hind tarsi banded with fuscous at 

 the base. 



I860.] 




214 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Nepticcla Zeller. 



N. rubifoliella. — Head dark luteous. Palpi somewhat paler Inteo'us. 



Antennae lateous, basal joint silvery white. Fore wings blackish-brown, 

 with a rather narrow, curved silvery band about the middle of the wing. The 

 band is concave toward the base of the wing, and shows a tendency to be 

 interrupted in the middle. Cilia whitish. Hind wings grayish, cilia the 

 same. 



I have very carefully compared this insect with the description and delinea- 

 tion of N. angulifasc iella. of Stainton, in the first volume of the Nat. 

 Hist, of the Tineina, and though unwilling to believe the fact, I cannot resist 

 the conclusion, that it is the same species. I have not named the species in 

 accordance with this conviction, because as yet I have secured but a single 

 specimen. 



The larva mines the leaf of blackberry in September. It makes a blotch 

 mine on the upper surface of the leaf, beginning as a slender gallery, extend- 

 ing quite a distance, usually along a vein of the leaf, before being enlarged 

 into a blotch. The body of the larva tapers posteriorly, the terminal rings 

 being attenuated ; color pale green, with a bright dark green vascular line : 

 head greenish-brown and small. The larva was not taken from the mine for 

 description. It leaves the mine very early in October to spin an oval, very 

 dark reddish brown cocoon, and appears as an imago during the latter part 

 of May or early in June. There is, therefore, in all probability, a summer 

 brood, which may be found in July and August, if the conjecture is correct. 



I have no doubt that subsequent observation will prove this insect to be the 

 same as angulifasciella, and I am no little astonished to find so mi- 

 nute a creature common to the continents of Europe and America. During 

 the coming season I will endeavor to record minutely the history of the pre- 

 paratory states of the American species. 



PHALENITES. 



DoKYODEs Guenee. 



I would notice this genus here merely to express my ideas respecting its 

 classification. M. Guenee says of it, that the insects belonging to it have so 

 doubtful an aspect that he is uncertain not only in what family, but in what 

 division to place it. He notices its superficial resemblance to Crambus, or 

 Chilo, and to the genera Senta and Meliana of his division Noctuelites, but 

 says that from the form of antennae and labial palpi, the absence of ocelli, 

 (herein, however, M. Guenee is in error, for they are not absent), and from 

 some other characters, not designated, it cannot be mistaken for one of the 

 Noctuelites. While acknowledging the very notable diflferences between this 

 genus and those with which it is associated, he does not inform us what ruling 

 considerations induced him to prefer for it a place in his division Phalenites, 

 (Geometrina) and the family Ligidae. 



In my own view, this genus has few or no structural characteristics of the 

 Geometrina, and its neuration just as undoubtedly places it in Guenee's group 

 Noctuelites, (Noctuina); this, too, is a position justified by its general struc- 

 ture. If the subpectinated antennae of the (J , and the comparatively slender 

 body, are considerations sufficient to overrule the position of the wings in re- 

 pose, the partial folding of the hinder pair, the structure of the legs, the pre- 

 sence of ocelli, and the purely noctuiform neuration, then indeed does the 

 lesser amount of evidence overbalance the greater. Had M. Guenee not over- 

 looked the presence of ocelli, his decision might have been difierent, for these 

 organs are always absent in the Phalenites, aod the possession of geometriform 

 antennffi is not enough to neutralize their presence or to determine the place 

 of the genus. 



In the hope that some of the entomological students of New England, where 

 one of the species of this genus certainly is found, may be able to make out 



[June, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 215 



its larval history, I will describe the species in ray collection, and extract M. 

 Guenee's description of the other. The first species may be easily recognised 

 by means of Guenee's very good figure, and as a generic diagnosis would not 

 facilitate recognition, particularly without the means of reducing it from a 

 general to a special group, I will omit any generic description. 



D. acutaria. — Herr. Sch. Sup., p. 74, f. 447. Guenee Uranides and 

 ThaUnites, Suites a Biiffon, x. 233, pi. 17, f. 6. 



The appearance of the imago is somewhat crambiform. The fore wings pale 

 ochreous, tinted with dark luteous (with clear grayish violet, G"/;.) along sub- 

 costal nervure and its marginal branches, and with a rather broad blackish 

 streak beneath the median nervure, extended from the base and curving be- 

 hind upwards toward the tip, bordered on the costal side by a silvery line, 

 and one of the same hue behind, along the curved portion. In the disk are 

 two blackish dots, one on the discal nervure and the other about the middle 

 of the disk. Hind wings ochreous white. Guenee's sp. from Ga.; mine from 

 Mass. Col. of Dr. Chas. Girard. 



D. s pad aria. — Gn. x. p. 234. "Very near the preceding, but larger, 

 with the wings more oblong. The superior wings are more acute, and the 

 terminal border perfectly straight. Their color is darker, grayer, with the 

 designs finer and less distinct. The inferior are more developed and more 

 oblong ; they have the internal angle and part of the side tinted with blackish 

 gray. The abdomen is perceptibly longer, and the antennse also proportiona- 

 bly longer and slenderer. ' ' 



In his generic diagnosis, M. Guenee says of the abdomen, "d^passaiit beau- 

 coup les ailes inferieures, ' ' whereas in my specimens of acutaria, the abdomen 

 exactly equals the length of the hind wings, when the wings are folded. He 

 refers, doubtless, to the expanded wings. 



PYRALIDiE. 

 Desmia Westwood. 



This is one of the few genera in M. Guenee's family Asopidse, of his division 

 Pyralites, the viales in which are characterized by nodosities or curvatures of 

 the antennae. As Guenee, at the time of writing his volume on Delto'ides and 

 Pyralites, had not seen the males of this genus, and his description, in the 

 general remarks on the genus, does not accurately rejiresent their structure, 

 I will describe these organs in the male, of which I have several specimens. 

 In noticing the singular conformation of the male antennae, he says : " sont 

 d'abord renflees en massue, puis etranglees et munies d'un gros article ovoide, 

 puis enfin greles et cilices jusqu' an sommet." 



About the middle of the antennal stalk, is placed a transverse, nearly ver- 

 tical plate, which on the external side has a triangular elevation, and adjoin- 

 ing this, toward the base, is a narrow tuft of obliquely placed scales, running 

 along the upper surface of the stalk. Toward the apex of the organ, immedi- 

 ately following this protuberance, one-half of the stalk is excised from above 

 and slightly tufted internally. There is no thickening of the stalk except at 

 the protuberance, and beneath it is microscopically pubescent from the base 

 to the tip. 



D. maculalis. — West. Mag. Zool., 1831, pi. 2, Guenee, vol. viii. IS!). 

 Blackish brown. Labial palpi blackish brown, while beneath. Fore wings 

 with an irregularly oval white spot placed partly on the middle of the disk, 

 the median nervure and the fold ; another of the same hue and nearly round, 

 on the base of the nervules behind the disk. Hind wings with a single, discal 

 white spot. Abdomen with a white band at the base, a dorsal spot on the 

 middle, and a short white dorsal streak at the tip. 



Mass. and 111. Col. of Messrs. Scudder and Kennicott. 



I860.] 




216 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



EUSTALES. 



Fore wings with two subcosto-marginal nervules, given oflf very near the 

 posterior-superior angle of the disk, the stalk of the second almost in contact 

 with that of the apical branch near their origins. The apical and post-apical 

 arise together at the angle of the disk, the former being furcate near the tip, 

 sending a nervulet to near the costa. The disco-central is given oflf from the 

 middle of the discal. Median four-branched, the medio-superior on an ex- 

 tremely short, vertical peduncle ; the posterior arising at a point somewhat 

 behind the costal origin of the first marginal branch. 



In the hind wings the costal nervure is furcate at the tip of the wing ; the 

 oblique intercostal branch is long and exterior to the cell, and the subcostal 

 simple and attenuated at the base. The median four-branched, the superior 

 which continues the curved discal nervure, almost in actual contact with the 

 following branch. The hind wings are broader than the fore wings, and about 

 one-fourth less long. 



Head with ocelli, rather remote from the eyes ; face rounded, smooth, and 

 rather narrow. Eyes large, round and prominent. Labial palpi rather thick, 

 curved and ascending to about the middle of the face ; second joint thickened 

 beneath with scales ; the third rather smooth, elongate ovoid, and about one- 

 half as long as the second. Maxillary palpi rather long, curved and ascend- 

 ing, their tips nearly equal to those of the labial palpi, roughened with scales, 

 distinctly three-jointed. Antennae about as long as the body, with triangular 

 patches of shining scales along the stalk above ; inserted above the middle of 

 the eyes, with bases contiguous and microscopically pubescent beneath. 

 Tongue scaled at base and when unrolled, does not extend beyond the tips 

 of the labial palpi. No abdominal apron (tablier) perceptible. The posterior 

 coxae rather short ; the length of the tibiae and tarsus, of the hind pair of legs, 

 equal to that of the entire body. 



E. Tedyuscongalis . — Fore wings ochreous yellow, paler along the 

 costa, dusted somewhat with reddish fuscous, with a moderately broad white 

 band from the costa near the tip, curving toward the base of the wing in the 

 submedian interspace, where it becomes rather broader, to the middle of the 

 inner margin. Behind this, near and parallel to the hind border, is a narrow 

 white band, not extended to the costa nor inner margin, and bordered exte- 

 riorly with a blackish-brown line. The exterior border of the wing is paler 

 yellow than the general hue. Hind wings white, with an oblique fuscous 

 band above the middle, tapering to the external margin ; a broad one of the 

 same hue near the hinder margin, having a pale ochreous-yellow spot at each 

 end, and margined behind with a white streak having an external delicate black 

 line. The terminal margin pale ochreous-yellow, with four black points hav- 

 ing ochreous-yellow pupils, arranged along the margin from the middle of 

 the wing toward the exterior angle. 



Lake Teedyuscoug, Pike county, Penna., in the latter part of June or early 

 ia July. 



The ornamentation of this insect resembles in a remarkable degree that of 

 Oligostigma j uncealis Gu. ; it cannot, however, be a member of the same 

 genus. 



Hydrocampa? Latreille. 



Guenee, vol. viii. 273. 



Fore wings with one subcosto-marginal from near the superior angle of the 

 disk ; the apical branch, at its basal third, gives oflf a branch to the costa, and 

 somewhat behind its apical third becomes furcate ; the post-apical arises at 

 the angle, and the discal nervule on the costal side of the cell. Median four- 

 branched ; the superior on a very noticeable peduncle ; the posterior remote 

 from the penultimate, which together with the other branches are aggregated 

 at their bases. 



[June, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 217 



In the hind wings the costal nervure has a rather long fork. The intercos- 

 tal branch exterior to the cell and extremely short, and from this point poste- 

 riorly the stalks of the two nervures are almost in contact. The median ner- 

 vure four-branched, the superior on a moderate peduncle. 



The structural differences between this and the foregoing genus are : the 

 labial palpi slenderer ; third joint very short, about one-third as long as the 

 second, which is squamous beneath. Maxillary palpi slender, smooth, por- 

 rected ; with tips equal to the end of the second joint. Tongue scaled at the 

 base, at least one-half as long as the body. The length of the middle tibiae and 

 tarsus equal to that of the body ; the hind tibiae and tarsus exceeding the 

 length of the body. 



H. ? formosalis . — Fore wings pale yellow, with three white patches on 

 the disk, the two nearest the base small and slightly margined with fuscous, 

 the one on the end of the disk margined internally by an oblique fuscous line ; 

 a white patch on the nervules behind the disk, margined externally by a fus- 

 cous line convex toward the base of the wing and hooked at each end, with a 

 white patch at the tip and one beneath it at the inner angle, both margined 

 externally by a submarginal curved fuscous line. In the middle of the sub- 

 median interspace is a nearly oval white patch encircled with fuscous. Hind 

 wings white, pale yellowish beyond the middle, with a fuscous line near tlie 

 base from the inner margin, not extended to the costa ; a wavy double line of 

 the same hue rather external to the middle, and a white spot near the tip and 

 one about the middle of the hinder margin, both margined externally with a 

 fuscous line. On the disk is a pale yellowish spot. 



Lake Teedyuscong. Imago, July. 



Cataclysta Herrich-Schaffer. 



Fore wings with the first subcosto-marginal vein and medio-posterior oppo- 

 site at their origins. The apical vein runs into the costa before the tip, and 

 gives rise to a marginal branch at its basal and apical third. The post-api- 

 cal runs into the produced tip of the wing and gives origin to the discal ner- 

 vure. Hind wings, the costal is shortly forked near the tip. Tlie subcostal 

 arises from the costal within the disk and is not pi-oduccd toward the base. 

 The median is three-branched. Head without ocelli. Antennse of the (^ densely 

 pubescent. Tongue as long as the thorax beneath. 



The structure of the posterior wings in the species described below forms 

 very nearly a parallel case toC. dilucidalis described by M. Guenee. The 

 costal nervure of dilucidalis is not, however, represented bifid, and the 

 branch which corresponds to the costal nervure does not arise within the cell 

 and give origin to the discal, but exterior to the disk and the discal nervure 

 arises behind it from the costal. They both concur in the absence of the dis- 

 cal, or independent nervule, and in the median being three-branched. May 

 not d i 1 u c i d a 1 i s be an American species ? I cannot determine the question, 

 as M. Guence's description is imperfect, from the fact that it was drawn from 

 badly preserved specimens. 



C. fulicalis . — Fore wings white, fuscous at the costal portion of the base, 

 with a broad band near the base and a narrow wavy fuscous line crossing the 

 middle of the disk, sending from the median nervure a curved line to the in- 

 ner margin, convex exteriorly. The space between these lines is frequently 

 dusted with fuscous. From an elongated fuscous patch limited below by the 

 subcostal nervure, on the middle of the costa, departs an oblique ochreous 

 band, inclined to the inner angle and margined along the discal nervure on 

 both sides, with fuscous ; and from the posterior end of the costal patch, a 

 curved line joins the external dark margin of the band enclosing an oval spot 

 of the general hue. A subterminal band tapers to the inner angle, leaving on 

 each side of it two converging tapering bands of the general hue. Hinder 

 margin ochreous, margined internally with fuscous. Hind wings white, with 



I860.] 14 




218 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



a broad fuscous band near the base, corresponding to that on the anterior, and 

 touched with ochreous in its middle ; with a median yellowish brown curved 

 line, not reaching the costa, and exterior to this, the apical half of the wing 

 is dusted slightly with dark brownish. Along the terminal margin, is a row 

 of five lilack luuules, connected by intermediate metallic violet-blue spot.<, and on 

 the extreme margin behind these latter spots, aroiv of orange yellow clots ; while 

 the band is tinted interiorly with the same hue, limited by an interrupted 

 slender dark brown line near the band. 



Pennsylvania, Easton. 



In ornamentation the following species is very like the foregoing. It differs 

 from it structurally in the following respects : Fore wings with the first sub- 

 eosto-margiual and medio-posterior opposite at their origins ; the second mar- 

 ginal arises at the angle of the disk ; the apical vein forked at about its middle, 

 the lower branch entering the costa before the tip. In the hind wings the 

 costal has a long fork ; the intercostal joins the subcostal at the point of 

 departure of the discal and seems to be a continuation of it, and the subcostal 

 is continued to the base of the wing. Head with ocelli. Tongue as long as 

 the thorax beneath. The first joint of labial palpi thickened with scales. 



C. ? helopalis . — Fore wings white, dusted with pale fuscous toward the 

 base, and on the fold behind ; with a narrow fuscous band crossing the base of 

 the disk. Near the end of the disk is a yellowish brown line, crossing the 

 wing, deeply and acutely angulated on the fold ; and near the tip are two nar- 

 row oblique streaks of the same hue converging to the inner margin above the 

 angle, the first of which is recurved toward the disk, encircling an obliquely 

 placed oval spot of the general hue on the nervules behind the disk. Along 

 the hinder margin, near the inner angle, are a few indistinct, iridescent spots ; 

 the margin and cilia yellowish brown. Hind wings white, with a short nar- 

 row fuscous band near the base, corresponding to that on the fore wings ; a 

 median line of the same hue, not attaining the exterior margin and the apical 

 portion of the wing exterior to it sprinkled thickly with fuscous. Hinder 

 margin with a row of black spots, having violet-blue metallic pupils and tint- 

 ed with pale orange between the spots. 



Lake Teedyuscong. 



SiROSIA. 



In the fore wings two distinct subcosto-marginal nervules leave the disk, 

 the first and the medio-posterior opposite : the second marginal arising at a 

 point nearly intermediate between the two hinder branches of the median : 

 the apical vein is forked a little beyond its middle ; the post apical and disco- 

 central arise near each other on the costal side of the wing. The median i? 

 four-branched. In the hind wings the intercostal is short, remote from and 

 exterior to the upper angle of the disk. There is nothing characteristic in the 

 shape of the wings ; the posterior are broader than the anterior. 



Head with ocelli. Antennse pubescent beneath. Labial palpi, when un- 

 denv.ded, moderately thick and squamose beneath, ascending to the middle of 

 the front ; third joint short and rather smooth ; denuded., tapering to the tip 

 from the base, slender and cylindrical ; the basal joint long, equal to the front : 

 the second and third short and equal in length. Maxillary palpi two-jointed, 

 with tips nearly equal to those of the labial, ascending and somewhat 

 tufted at the end. Tongue scaled at base, exceeding the labial palpi 6^ out 

 half its length. No abdominal apron peceptible ; the length of the posterior 

 tarsus and the tibia equal to that of the body. 



S. maculalis. — Fore wings white, dusted with fuscous along the base 

 of submedian nervure ; with a fuscous spot at the base of the fold and one of 

 the same hue in the middle of submedian interspace, and a broad, irregular 

 band adjoining the disk behind, extended from the costa to the inner angle, 

 with the exterior half nearly square, and the interior somewhat paler, curved 



[June, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 219 



and tapering. The apex of the wing is touched with fuscous, and the ends of 

 the nervules slightly dotted with the same hue. Hind wings concolorous, 

 pure white. 



Lake Teedyuscong. July. 



Before concluding this paper, I desire to record my views respecting the 

 unnecessary amount of labor, loss of time and uninviting study, which the 

 details of M. Guenee's mode of systemization imposes on the American stu- 

 dent. MM. Boisduval and Guenee, in the important and comprehensive works 

 which engage their labors at the present time, are not writing treatises on 

 local faunje, but on that of the entire world, in so far at least as lepidopterous 

 insects are known ; and students everywhere have a right to expect that 

 the difficulties of classification will be diminished, rather than complicated. 

 by their treatment of the various groups which may be included in their 

 works. The author who would be cosmopolitan in his representation of this 

 subject, at the present day, cannot neglect, in justice to those who may fol- 

 low his footsteps through nature, to endeavor to lighten their burden of study 

 and to economize their time, by leading them with all the lights of his know- 

 ledge, through the complicated mazes of doubt, engendered by the numerous 

 and perplexing affinities existing in beings of the animated world. The chief 

 object of classification is simply to communicate our own systematic concep- 

 tions to others, and to mark the graduations in the arrangement in such a 

 manner, as will enable them easily and quickly to recognize its groups. How 

 has M. Guenee facilitated the recognition of genera, whilst he has greatly in- 

 creased the number of them, or lightened in any respect the systematic labor 

 of the foreign student ? Is it enough that he should content himself with 

 carefully written diagnoses, and compel the student to examine critically 

 and minutely every one in any of his family groups, before being able to 

 decide whether the insect he may wish to classify belongs to any of them, or 

 is not edited ? A system which both reason and convenience approves, is 

 that which enables the student easily to find what he seeks, and not that 

 which compels him to master the genera peculiar to every other portion oi 

 the globe, in order to assure himself whether a group has been established 

 into which his specimens can be admitted. 



The omission of synopses of genera, when the number of them in his family 

 groups calls for such tables, as it does so frequently, is a most serious, not to 

 say unpardonable, defect in the six volumes published by M. Guenee. There 

 is no student of American lepidopterology, compelled to study his works, who 

 will not regret that he has so extensively described our fauna ; and the fact 

 that so much time and patience and labor are necessary to determine whether 

 a generic description is given by the author, of one of our moths, of which 

 everything is unknown, perhaps, except the division to which it belongs in his 

 system, is an actual and real impediment to the development of the study in 

 our country. In the examination and comparison of lepidopterous insects, 

 M. Guenee recognizes beyond doubt, each genus under a family by some dis- 

 tinctive structural trait, and why cannot all these be presented to the student 

 in synopses, as well as they are apparent to his own perceptive faculties ? 

 Without these conveniences of comparative study, the student is compelled 

 to do the work of the author anew, and, at an immense disadvantage and loss 

 of time, to search for what is distinctive, in by no means sharply, though dif- 

 fusely characterized groups, which include very frequently ornamentation 

 as one of their chief characteristics. In the cabinet of specimens, all this is 

 almost apparent at a glance, and it is the result of this educated sense that 

 seizes quickly what is distinctive in a variety of forms, that the student has a 

 right to look for in synopses. 



M. Guenee expressly declares in one of his early works in the "Suites a 

 BuflFon, ' ' that in giving the meagre synopses of tribes and families, contained in 

 the series, he is merely following the custom of M. Boisduval, and that he 



I860.] 




220 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



does not consider tliem of any value in a natural system. It seems strange 

 that any one, especially M. Guence, could entertain such an opinion, when a 

 slight amount of study is sufficient to convince any naturalist, that there is 

 no severer test to be applied to a system than the construction of synopses 

 containing exclusive categories founded on structure. Groups agreeing most 

 closely are brought into direct contrast, and if the most trivial and unimpor- 

 tant structural peculiarities, except in the case of genera, are called into 

 requisition to distinguish them, whatever may be their comprehensiveness, is 

 not the fact very strongly suggestive of want of naturalness, nay, of purely 

 artificial, arbitrary distinctions, produced by the desire to create differences 

 where there are none actually in nature ? But even admitting they are 

 formed on a purely artificial basis, and that all synopses are essentially artifi- 

 cial, need the fact in the character of a simple index to systematic concep- 

 tions, in any manner affect the most natural arrangement of the group in the 

 text ? And could there be any better system than that which unites the 

 convenience of the one to the truthfulness of the other ? 



One of the chief objects in systematic and descriptive works certainly ought 

 to be, a ready and certain recognition of groups and individuals ; and to facili- 

 tate this, no care or labor bestowed on synopses intended to promote this 

 object and prevent loss of time to the inquirer, can be regarded as superfluous 

 or as a tax on authorship. The world is thi;s the gainer in economy of time, 

 and science is more rapidly advanced. And surely, when one reflects how few 

 there are who devote themselves to scientific study, the additional labor thus 

 expended by the author carries into the future the most fruitful results. It 

 is the neglect of the synoptical system that has converted, even at the present 

 day, the great majority of entomologists everywhere into a class of mere col- 

 lectors and picture-recognizers, and which calls for a profuseness of illustra- 

 tion to be met with in no other department of J^atural History. And on the 

 other hand, its tendency is to institute, if indeed it has not already done so, 

 an Egyptian priesthood over nature, in that body of European " authorities" 

 skilled in the interpretation of its hieroglyphics, and who furnish students 

 with a complicated, skeleton method, all of whose details they must painfully 

 acciuire, before they can in the humblest degree, aspire to question systematic 

 nature for themselves. How laborious, time consuming and discouraging 

 this is to the American student, who has "no authority" to consult, save the 

 ambiguous phrases of diagnoses, no classified collections to study, and by 

 the comparison of forms to educate his perceptive powers in generic and family 

 differences, cannot be appreciated by those who have all these aids, and who 

 are the heirs to almost hereditary entomological lore and collections, handed 

 down from one generation to another. 



The times, however, demand of MM. Guence and Boisduval a system of con- 

 venient study. The former, it is true, attempts to meet this demand by 

 separating the portion of the order of which he treats, first, into divisions, and 

 these into tribes, and these again into families ; but scattered as they are 

 through the body of the work, or through several volumes, this complication 

 of arrangement is far from fulfilling the needs of the student. It is not 

 vatitral, and is therefore perplexing, and has caused the author to mistake 

 well marked groups within families, for families themselves, or even higher 

 divisions. When the individual structure of two beings placed in different, 

 sometimes widely separated families, approach so intimately that they can be 

 distinguished only by resort to trivial characters, what more conclusive proof 

 of artificiality, and mere brain and paper-created distinctions, can the natu- 

 ralist desire ? 



The elaborate description of groups is a highly commendable trait in a sys- 

 tematic work. They should be, however, merely a confirmation of the results 

 attainable by the study of synopses of characters, all the categories of which 

 are rigidly exclusive and markedly characteristic of the groups they desig- 



[June, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 221 



nate. By this means, the question of groups having been reduced to a few 

 whioh are most closely coincident, doubts which cannot be dispelled by the 

 best synopses, are either confirmed or dissipated at once. This subject I 

 think eminently worthy M. Guenee's consideration, and that of all systema- 

 tists who may succeed him. I would beg him to think upon it in connection 

 with his subsequent works, and at least tell students why he values less a 

 solid and self-satisfying reputation, built on essential and successful impetus 

 given to his favorite branch of study in all parts of tlie civilized world, than that 

 ephemeral position of being the temporary authority for the little entomologi- 

 cal world ; and if in addition to synopses of all his groups, under the next 

 most general in value, he would add to his works delineations of the dis- 

 tinctive parts of structure in everi/ geincs, instead of colored representations of 

 a few moths, his works would possess an enduring and permanent value, so 

 long as entomology as a study engages the attention of the student of nature. 



Hemiptera of the North Pacific Exploring Expedition under Com'rs Eodgers 



and Ringgold. 



BY P, R. UHLER. 



The Hemipterous insects, brought home by the Expedition, furnish several 

 new and remarkable species, and much praise is due the indefatigable botanist 

 of this Expedition, Mr. Charles Wright, for displaying such zeal in bringing 

 together so many interesting objects. The insect fauna of many of the countries 

 touched at, particularly that of Japan, being almost entirely unknown, renders 

 every addition of species from those localities exceedingly desirable, and it 

 would be matter of deep interest to have an opportunity of examining full 

 series of them. 



Considering the importance of the species procured, it is much to be regretted 

 that extensive facilities were not afforded for bringing together a general col- 

 lection ; but, under the existence of contingent circumstances, this was not 

 possible. 



The absence of any extensive collection of exotic Hemiptera in this country 

 renders it impossible to decide with precision upon a few of the species here 

 included; but should they hereafter be found to have been previously charac- 

 terized, the proper acknowledgments will be made. As there seems to be no 

 settled opinion in the minds of Entomologists respecting certain groups, par- 

 ticularly with such families as Halydce, Pentatomidce, Rhaphig a strides, &c., and 

 still further on, with Mictidce, Nematopidce, AcanthocoridcB, &c., and having met 

 with a genus (Pacht/cephalus) which violates the characters of the families 

 given, I thought it better to place the included species in two large groups 

 {Pentatomoidea, Coreoidea) , corresponding with the genera Pe/Jte^oma and Coreiis, 

 of Fabricius. 



SCUTELLERID^. 

 Callidea, Burm. 

 C. Stollii, Wolff, Icones Cimicum, 48, tab. 5, fig 45. Hong Kong. 



Eucorysses, Amyot et Serv. 

 E. superbus 9- — Deep orange ; head bluish-black, lateral lobes and the 

 middle one at tip sanguineous, transversely wrinkled, rostrum and antenno 

 black, pubescent, eyes and ocelli brownish ; thorax deep orange, obsoletely 

 punctured, a lunulate, black depression just behind the head densely, coarsely 

 punctured, exterior and anterior edges black, spot upon the disk, one upon 

 each humeru?, and a connecting band upon the basal margin also black ; be- 

 hind each anterior angle is an oblong, rounded, shallow impression, blackish ; 

 corium black, punctured; wings dark-fullginous ; scutellum finely punctured, 

 with a band at base, an irregular one dilated and projecting medially forward, 



I860.] 




222 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



upoa the middle, one interrupted each side, with an anterior acute point be- 

 hind the middle and a transverse, roundish spot before the apex black ; venter 

 violaceous, the middle with a large sanguineous spot, common to the antepe- 

 nultimate a-.d preceding segiients ; caudal segment, except the anus, red, seg- 

 ments 1 to 4 with a transverse, lateral carmine spot, the two posterior of which 

 are obsoletely connected with the discal spot, penultimate one at sides broadly 

 carmine through their marginal length, with an impression each side against 

 the stigmata; pectus punctured, violaceous and black, a rounded spot upon 

 the sides of the anterior and posterior segments ; legs black, yellowish pubes- 

 cent. 



Length 10 — 11 lines. Humeral breadth 5 — 5J. Simoda, Japan. 



One specimen differs in having the anterior band of the scutellum interrupted 

 each side of the middle, so as to form three spots. 



Peltophora, Burm. 

 P. p i c t a , Leach, Zool. Misc. Hong Kong. 



Gkaphosoma, Lap. 

 G. r u b r 0-1 i n e a t u m , Hope, Cat. Hemipt , p. 12. Hakodadi and Taka- 

 nosima, Japan. 



PENTATOMOIDEA. 

 Brachypelta, Amyot et Serv. 



B. elevata . — Black, shining, broad, ovate ; head roughly punctured, finely 

 emarginate, rounded, margins reflexed, lateral lobes meeting in front of the mid- 

 dle one ; thorax short, transverse, finely but roughly punctured, sides stibparallel, 

 margins trenchant, ciliate, anterior angles rather abruptly rounded, behind the 

 head a deep lunulate depression, bounded posteriorly by a very much elevated 

 prominence, which is rather smoother than the surrounding surface, posterior 

 margin truncate ; scutellum finely, rather sparsely punctured, depressed behind 

 the middle to the tip, against the basal corners more elevated and polished ; 

 hemelytra finely, closely punctured, corium sinuated, ciliated at the basal mar- 

 gins, membranes testaceo-hyaline ; abdomen slightly dilated, convex beneath, 

 margins trenchant, projecting a little beyond the breadth of the corium poste- 

 riorly : venter polished ; legs black, polished, femorae ciliate, each with a line 

 of impressed punctures upon the anterior surface, tibias very spinous, exterior, 

 spiniform teeth of the anterior ones, subequal. 



Length 10 — 12 millim. Abdominal breadth 5 — 7. Cape of Good Hope. 



This species is very closely related to and possesses many of the characters of 

 B. t r i s t i s , Fab. ; it may be distinguished at a single glance, however, from that 

 common species, by the proportionately shorter and less, laterally, oblique 

 thorax, and by the abdomen being much broader than the thorax. , 



AcATALECTUS, Dallas. 



A. magnus O . — Black, shining, punctured ; head rounded, emarginate, with 

 the anterior margin narrowly recurved, lateral lobes meeting by a point of their 

 surface, in front of the middle one, coarsely and deeply rugose-punctate, eyes 

 testaceous, ocelli reddish, antennae piceous pubescent, terminal joints paler, 

 rostrum pitchy black, second joint thickened ; thorax subquadrate, anterior 

 angles a little oblique and rounded, behind the head a slightly elevated, irregu- 

 larly crescent-formed surface, smooth and impunctate, remaining surface very 

 deeply, coarsely and confluently punctured, a series of very fine punctures 

 against the lateral margins, basal margin subtruncate, smooth, with a very few 

 coarse punctures ; scutellum polished, rugosely punctured, impunctured at the 

 apex ; corium subopake, very finely and closely punctured, membrane fuligin- 

 ous, subopake, freckled with spots of yellow, beneath scabrescently punctured, 

 venter densely so, its disk polished, impunctured, margins trenchant; legs 

 deep black, polished, anterior and middle femorae ciliated beneath with a row 



[June, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 223 



of long slender spines, those upon the posteriors verj short, tibios densely 

 spinous. 



Length 9 lines. Abdominal breadth 5. Hong Kong. 



This species must be closely allied to A. rugosus, Dallas ; but in that spe- 

 cies the middle lobe is represented to form the anterior margin of the head, and 

 nothing is said of spots upon the membrane. 



Erthesina, Spin. 



E. fullo, Thunb. Nov. Ins. Sp. 42, tab. 2, fig. 57, (1783.) E. mucorem 

 Fab. Ent Syst. iv. 117, 147, (1794.) 



Agonoscelis, Spin. 



A. nubilus, Fab. Ent. Sjst. iv. 112, 124. Loo-Choo Islands. 

 PoECiLOMETis, Dallas. 



P. mistus 9- — Brownish-cinereous; head rounded in front, middle lobe 

 slightly longer than the lateral ones, surface densely punctured wi.h black, anten- 

 nae yellow, punctured with black, penultimate joint black in the middle, almost 

 to each end, eyes brownish-glaucous, with a posterior, narrow yellow lobe, promi- 

 nent, subtruncate posteriorly, rostrum reaching to the abdomen, a longitudinal 

 line, tips of the articulations and apical segment black ; thorax densely punc- 

 tured, a fewimpunctured yellow spots scattered over the surface, four of which 

 are placed in a transverse row behind the head, anterior angles armed with a 

 very minute denticle, lateral margins smooth, slightly sinuated, humeral angles 

 prominent, triangularly rounded; scutellum confluently punctured, an im- 

 punctured yellow spot against each basal corner; sinuated before the tip, tip 

 rounded; hemelytra flecked with brown, densely punctured, slightly tinged 

 with reddish upon the apex of the corium, membrane yellowish-hyaline, the 

 nervures having interrupted brown lines npon them ; beneath less closely punc. 

 tured, upon the pectus several spots of dense green punctures, under surface^ 

 of the head also punctured in green spots; disk of the venter, with a broad, 

 smooth, impunctured line, surface tinged with reddish, stigmata, and obsolete 

 spots upon the incisural middles of the segments black ; legs reddish-yellow, 

 sparsely pubescent, punctured with black, unguiculi with black tips. 



Length to tip of wings 1h lines. Simoda, Japan, and Hong Kong, China. 



Pentatoma, Lat. 



1. P. fimb riata, H. Schf. Wanz. Ins. v. 63, tab. 164, fig. 505. Loo- 

 Choo Islands. 



2. P. cru c lata, Fab. Ent. Syst. iv. 119, 153. Hong Kong, China. 



3. P. d i s s i m i 1 i 3 , Fab. Ent. Syst. iv. 109, 112. Hong Kong, China. 



4. P. humeri gera. — Olivaceous-brown, shining, tinged with aeneous; 

 head emarginate, with the central lobe slightly projecting from the emargi- 

 nation, surface closely punctured, eyes prominent, scarcely as wide as the 

 anterior breadth of the thorax, and closely applied against it, ocelli bronzed, 

 antennae fulvous, second and third joints equal, rostrum reaching the posterior 

 coxae, testaceous, having a black line above ; thorax brassy punctured, humeral 

 projections blackish, salient, subconic, slightly flattened, curved; anterior mar- 

 gin deeply rounded out, behind the head a shallow, transverse, interrupted im- 

 pression, lateral margins deeply arcuated, with an elongated-oval, impunctured, 

 yellow mark, beginning at the anterior subacute angle ; scutellum closely punc- 

 tured with black, slightly sinuated before the tip, which is bluntly rounded ; 

 hemelytra closely punctured, nervures well defined, membrane brownish-ful- 

 vous ; wings testaceous; tergum black, impunctate, with the lateral margins 

 olivaceous, punctured ; beneath polished, olivaceo-testaceous, finely punctured, 

 more deeply and closely so upon the pectus and beneath the humeral projec- 

 tions, a common black spot upon the fourth and fifth segments, and a minute 

 black point against the lateral margin upon the incisures of the segments, stig- 

 mata black; legs yellowish-testaceous, pointed with black. 



I860.] 




224 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Length 3j lines. Humeral breadth 3. Takanosima, Japan. 

 This species bears some resemblance in form to P. scabricorae,H. Schf. ; 

 but differs in the form of the humeral angles. 



Strachia, Hahn. 



S. ornata, Linn. Fauna Suecica, 251, 937. Loo-Choo Islands. 



A remarkably small variety of this species was obtained at Petropaulovsk, 

 Karatschatka ; it differs from the type in marking, chiefly, in wanting the me- 

 dial lateral black spot ; the specimens are males, being six millims. in length. 



Eysarcoris, Spin. 



E. perlatus, Fab. Ent. Syst. iv. 125, 177. Simoda and Loo-Choo. 

 One specimen has the spots of the base of the scutellum very minute, and in 

 another they are entirely wanting. 



Nezara, Amyot et Serv., 

 N. torquata. Fab. Ent. Syst. iv. 108, 107. Loo-Choo. 



Rhaphigaster, Lap. 

 R. disjectu s. — Grayish-aeneous, shining ; head bluntly rounded, middle 

 lobe about as long as the lateral ones ; surface confluently punctured, tinged 

 with purplish green anteriorly, eyes brownish, ocelli reddish, antennae piceous 

 pubescent, base of the apical joint yellow, rostrum yellowish, a line above and 

 tip piceous ; thorax brassy-greenish, tinged with purplish, confluently punc- 

 tured, lateral margins regularly oblique, smooth, yellow, humeral angles 

 slightly rounded, a little prominent, margin against the head yellowish ; scu- 

 tellum same color as the thorax, confluently punctured, a little sinuated before 

 the tip, tip and a geminate spot each side at base yellow ; corium grayish-yel- 

 low, punctured with black, punctures very dense upon the clavus and lateral 

 margins; membrane and wings yellowish-testaceous ; tergum black with a vio- 

 let reflection, segments each with a yellow spot upon the lateral margin ; be- 

 neath grayish-yellow, coarsely pointed with black, points absent from the disk, 

 which is smooth, yellow, points becoming confluent in spots posteriorly and 

 upon the external edges of the segmental incisures ; sternum black, finely cari- 

 nate in the middle ; ventral spine reaching to the raedio-cosae, yellow ; legs 

 yellowish, pointed with black, a blaclc band upon the knees, and another at the 

 tips of the tibife, tarsi blackish, middle joint paler. 



Length 5 lines. Humeral breadth 2_ lines. Hong-Kong. 



Acanthosoma, Curtis. 

 A. haeraatogaster, Burm. Handb. ii. 360, 4. Hong-Kong. 



Tesseratoma, Lep. et Serv. 



T. chinensis, Thunb. Nov. Ins. Spec. 45, tab. 2, f. 59. Hong-Kong. 

 DrcHELOPS, H. Schf. 



D. a fii n i s . — Elongated-oval, testaceous-yellow, punctured with black, 

 head elongated-triangular, deeply cleft in the middle, points applied, hardly 

 divaricating at the tip, middle lobe about half the length of the external ones, 

 punctured, antennse reddish, incisures and apical half of the tip joint black, 

 rostrum yellowish, with the extreme tip black ; thorax transverse, gradually 

 elevated to the middle, upon which a slightly elevated, arcuated transverse 

 carina, continued to the subacute humeral angles, exists, surface finely wrinkled 

 and punctured, lateral margins lightl}* arcuated, minutely denticulated ; scutel- 

 lum transversely wrinkled, punctured, and having five longitudinal rows of 

 obsolete granulations; before the tip sinuated, much narrowed ; hemelytra very 

 finely punctured witli black, membrane testaceous ; wings milk-white ; venter 

 finely punctured with black, extreme lateral margin a line just outside of the 



[June, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 225 



Stigmata each side, one eacli side between the stigmata and the disk, and one 

 upon the disk, almost impunctured ; legs yellow, finely pubescent, and pointed 

 with black. 

 Length 7 lines. Humeral breadth 3^ lines. Simoda, Japan. 



COREOIDEA. 

 DiscoQASTEK, Amyot et Serv. 

 D. fuliginosns. — Dark brown, without lustre; head square, rugous, 

 pubescent; antenniferous tubercles robust, blunt; rostrum thick, reaching be- 

 tween the anterior coxa;, tapering towards the extremity ; antennae densely 

 pubescent, basal joint thickest, constricted at its origin, slightly curved, second 

 a little longer than the third, fourth almost equal to the first, all the joints 

 cylindrical, with the tip of the apical one acute; eyes globular, salient, stem- 

 mata about as far from each other as from the eyes ; thorax subcrescentiform, 

 triangular in front to the base of the head, humeral angles produced into flat, 

 plate-like appendages, angular at the tips, posterior margin obtusely rounded, 

 surface densely covered with short pubescence, coarsely transversely wrinkled, 

 before the posterior margin a transverse, slightly elevated line, which does not 

 reach either margin, edges of the crescent irregularly serrate, antero-lateral 

 margins deaticulate ; scutellum smooth at base, coarsely wrinkled behind the 

 base to the tip ; hemelytra a little paler than the other surface, finely clothed 

 with yellowish pubescence, nervures well defined, membrane subopake ; tergum 

 smooth iu the middle, pubescent at the sides ; beneath sparsely clothed with 

 golden pubescence, stigmata of the postpectus, bright yellow ; legs covered 

 with yellowish pubescence, tip of each femur beneath armed with a stout 

 tooth, between which and the tip are a few smaller ones, posterior femora 

 thickest, slightly curved, all the femoras subcylindrical. 



Length 23 millim. Humeral breadth 9 millim. 9 



This insect, owing to the length of the last joint of the antennas and the 

 absence of the sternal groove, does not completely agree with the genus as 

 characterized by Arayot; but its general affinities seem to cause it to recur to 

 this genus, where we have accordingly placed it. 



Camptop0S, Amyot et Serv. 



C. annulatus. — Fuscous, minutely pubescent; head finely shagrined, 

 blackish against the eyes and behind the stemraata, stemmata and eyes red- 

 dish-brown, antennae yellowish, apical two-thirds of the last joint and tips of 

 the others blackish ; rostrum with the sides beyond the middle to the tip ful- 

 vous; thorax subcampanuliform, posterior angles armed with an acute spine, a 

 minute denticle behind the spine, posterior margin irregularly crenated ; sur- 

 face pubescent, sprinkled with small, black, elevated points ; tip of the scutel- 

 lum yellowish ; hemelytra pubescent, nervures very distinct, surface punctured, 

 membrane immaculate, shining; tergum blackish, with a large, rounded, white 

 spot behind the middle, against each incisure a white spot, exteriorly; venter 

 yellowish, sprinkled with irregular dusky marks, a large black discal spot and 

 an interrupted black line upon the middle of the three posterior segments ; 

 legs pubescent, spotted and marbled with fuscous and yellow, posterior femorae 

 particularly dark, armed with five teeth, between the two posterior teeth a few 

 smaller ones, posterior tibias slender, curved, yellowish upon the middle, 

 slender, acute spine at tip. 



Length 1 lines. 9 • Simoda, Japan. 



Pachtcepualus, Uhler. 



Body robust, elongate-oval ; head filled up between the antenniferous tuber- 

 cles, base of rostrum projecting bluntly; antennae cylindrical, basal joint thick- 

 ened, slightly curved, about equal in length to the third, second longest,, 

 apical one shortest, fusiform; eyes globular, situated upon a robust promi- 



1860.] 




226 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



nence; stemmata placed on the line of the eyes, a little nearer them than each 

 other ; rostrum reaching the posterior coxae, first joint thickest, about equal in 

 length to the second, third and fourth subequal, slender; thorax trapezoid; 

 hemelytra about one-third shorter than the abdomen, a little shorter in the 

 female, membrane with the nervures very irregularly ramose; abdomen thick, 

 margins not recurved, superior caudal segment longest in the male ; legs un- 

 armed ; posterior thighs not thickened, slightly curved. 



P. opacus. — Dark brown, without lustre, punctured, pubescent; head 

 with the space between the antenniferous tubercle filled up, antennse pubes- 

 cent, brown, with the apical two-thirds of the tip joint yellow, upper surface 

 of the head covered with yellowish pubescence ; thorax roughly punctured, a 

 tranverse, slightly elevated lobe near each anterior angle, posterior margin 

 with a fine, transverse, impressed line, anterior angles acute, posterior ones 

 rounded, lateral margins sinuated, edge slightly recurved, posterior margin 

 truncate; scutellum and corium of the hemelytra punctured and uniform with 

 the thorax ; membrane pale brown, nervules very irregular, tip reaching the 

 end of the fifth segment; tergum and beneath uniformly roughly punctured, 

 pubescent, incisures of the tergum yellowish at the lateral margins ; legs dark 

 brown, pubescent, tarsi honey-yellow. 



Length 10 millim. Humeral breadth 2^- millim. (^ $. Takanosima, 

 Japan. 



This genus presents an entire anomaly amongst the Coreoid Hemiptera with 

 simple legs ; it seems to have most affinity with the Gonoceridae, but it differs 

 from them in the length of the hemelytra and the irregularity of its nervules ; 

 its position in the series, as the system now stands, is very difficult lo define. 



GoNOCERUs, H. Schf. 



1. G. bipunctatus, H. Schf. Wanz. Ins., vi., 9, tab. 183, fig. 566. 

 Takanosima and Loo-Choo. 



2. G. p un c t i p en n is . — Body ovate, tawny-yellow; head punctured 

 with black, space almost filled up between the antenniferous tubercles ; tuber- 

 cles but slightly prominent, middle" of the head sulcate ; antennae reddish, 

 pubescent, tips of the first three joints blackish, middle of the apical joint 

 dusky, second joint longest, third a little shorter than the basal one, apical 

 joint about half the length of the second, subfusiform, thickest; two basal 

 joints of the rostrum about equal, apical ones subequal, apex minutely black ; 

 a slender black line behind the eyes to the base of the head, eyes brownish, 

 globular, stemmata reddish ; thorax trapezoid, gradually narrowed anteriorly 

 to the breadth of the head, sides a little arcuated, margins recurved, paler 

 than the surface, humeral angles bluntly triaagular, hardly acute ; surface 

 closely punctured with black, behind the head slightly depressed, before the 

 posterior margin a fine, transverse, elevated line interrupted at each end ; scu- 

 tellum and hemelytra minutely and densely punctured, the latter with pale, 

 smooth, elevated costal margins, and upon the disk a small round black dot, 

 membrane pale, semitransparent, nervures longitudinal, numerous, wings 

 same color as membrane, nervures black; abdominal margins lightly re- 

 curved, tergum with two small black spots before the tip. and a number of 

 irregular blackish marks near the sides ; venter and beneath pale-yellowish, 

 covered with minute, scattered punctures, a double irregular row of black 

 points each side of the venter, within the stigmatal orifices, a few others against 

 the sutures of the discoidal segments, and a single one upon the side of the 

 medio and postpectus ; legs minutely pointed with black, finely pubescent. 



Length 14 millim. Abdominal breadth $ 7 millim. Simoda, Japan. 



The female has the antepenultimate segment posteriorly deeply emarginate ; 

 at the base of this segment is also an elevated biemarginate process, at which 

 the vulvar opening commences. 



fJune 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 227 



HOMCEOOERIDiE. 



Anacanthus, Uhler. 

 Body elongated, sides parallel ; head square, lightly emarginated between 

 the antennae, and furnished with a feeble carina ; behind the emargination, 

 longitudinally impressed ; eyes globular; stemmata situated on the posterior 

 line of the eyes, a little nearer them than each, other, a slight transverse im- 

 pression before each ; rostrum reaching half way between the anterior pairs of 

 legs, first and second joints nearly equal in length, second thickened, next and 

 the apical one cylindrical, subequal; antennse cylindrical, slender, as long as 

 the body, basal joint a little more robust than the others, slightly arcuated, 

 second longest, third and apical ones subequal, the latter cylindrical, acute ; 

 thorax trapezoid, humeral angles not armed ; membrane with the nervures 

 numerous, chiefly longitudinal, tip not extending beyond the abdomen ; legs 

 simple, posterior femorae not thickened, two pairs of hind-femorse arcuated ; 

 abdomen not dilated, sides parallel." 



A. concoloratus . — Cinnamon-yellow, legs and antennae deeper, beneath 

 paler, above uniformly, finely punctured, last joint of the antennae dusky, with 

 a minute black tip ; eyes brownish ; stemmata reddish ; humeral angles simply 

 angulated, an irregular, transverse elevated line before the hind-margin ; mem- 

 brane pale-yellowish, with a brassy tint, a thick nervule running nearly half the 

 length of its posterior margin black ; wings whitish, slightly tinged with 

 brassy lustre ; origin and basal half of the costal nervure red, remaining part 

 yellow, some of the discal nervures margined with red, the rest brownish or 

 yellow; beneath pale, polished, pectus finely punctured, unguiculi blackish. 



Length 16 millim. Humeral breadth 4J millim. (J*. Hong-Kong, China. 



LYG^ID^. 

 Lyg^ds, Fab. 



1. L. equestris, Linn. Fauna Suecica, 946. Hakodadi, Japan. 



2. L. m u n d u s , Dallas, Brit. Mus. Cat. Hemip. 542, 32. Cape Good Hope. 



3. L. o mat us. — Head sanguineous-red, base, under side and slender 

 longitudinal line black, rostrum also black, in the midst of the basal black 

 spot is a minute whitish dot; eyes brownish, stemmata yellowish; antennae 



; thorax red, margins not elevated, a black, each side interrupted, line 



behind the head, two triangular spots behind near the posterior angles, and 

 two round dots of a deeper black, almost connecting the anterior band with 

 the posterior spots ; scutellum black, with a red tip and posterior margin ; 

 corium red, whitish against the membrane, a black oval spot running from 

 near the internal angle to the humeral one, where it is reduced almost to 

 a point, another subtriangular one behind the former against the external 

 margin ; membrane black, exterior margin and point at the basal angle white ; 

 disk of the venter blackish, margins red, stigmata black ; each pectoral seg- 

 ment with a large black spot, pulverulent with whitish ; a series of four round 

 blacker points each side of the pectus ; legs piceous, powdered with whitish. 



Length 9;^ millim. $ . Hong-Kong, China. 



PACHYMERID^. ' 

 Pachymerus, H. Schf. 

 P. alb -m a rginatus . — Elongated, black; head black, pubescent, im- 

 punctured ; rostrum piceous, paler in the middle ; thorax trapezoidal, lateral 

 margins broadly elevated, pale testaceous ; basal breadth less than the length, 

 surface densely punctured upon the basal half, behind the head and against 

 the lateral margins, middle transverse, impressed line distinct, a slightly ele- 

 vated, longitudinal line reaching from it to the base, humeral angles obtusely 

 rounded; scutellum black, sparsely punctured, tip and a slightly elevated line 

 _ against it testaceous ; hemelytra coarsely punctured, testaceous, a large black 

 1860.] 




228 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



spot, covering the clavus, reaching to the subcostal nervure and extending two- 

 thirds of its length, when it becomes blacker, and ramifies broadly against the 

 lateral margin, a much narrower branch also continues against the posterior mar- 

 gin; membrane fuliginous, some of the nervures tinged with testaceous, towards 

 the base; wings pale fuliginous, nervures darker ; tergura with two pale spots 

 upon the lateral margin ; femorae black, their basal third and trochanters tes- 

 taceous, tibiae light-piceous, black at tip, tarsi dusky at tip. 



Length 11 millim. 9- Takanosima, Japan. 



Nothing is said of the antenns, as they are unfortunately broken off from 

 the only specimen obtained. 



A specimen, which I take to be a variety of this species, was captured at the 

 Cape of Good Hope. 



It differs from the type in having the posterior thoracic lobe marmorated 

 with testaceous, the hemelytral spot is not so black, spreading more irregularly 

 over the surface, the testaceous color is faintly spread over the margins of the 

 tergum, the femorae are testaceous for two-thirds of their basal length, the 

 tibia and tarsi are almost entirely testaceous, and the rostrum is tinged with 

 piceous, more or less deep, throughout its entire length. Its length is lOJ mil- 

 lim. Q. ' 



It corresponds with what is considered as a not full colored state of many 

 insects of this and other families of Hemiptera, wherein the insect has not 

 lived long enough to attain its complete depth of coloring, or where certain 

 physical contingencies have retarded its attainment to full perfection of color. 



Aphanus, Dallas. 



A. boniniensis . — Pitchy-black, finely pubescent ; head black, antennae 

 testaceous, tips of joints black, rostrum testaceous, piceous in front and at the 

 tip, eyes dark brown, stemmata yellowish ; thorax subcampanuliform, pubes- 

 cent, anterior lobe rounded at sides, dark brownish, posterior lobe reddish, 

 with a testaceous line upon the humerus bounded by a black line ; corium 

 yellowish-testaceous, margins paler, a spot at the apex, another a little in ad- 

 vance of it, punctulation and a few minute spots black; membrane fuliginous, 

 nervules white ; wings white ; beneath black, margins of the abdomen and 

 antepectus pale piceous ; legs testaceous, a band upon the anterior femora, 

 one upon the middle and posterior femora, and tips of tibis blackish. 



Length 5 millim. $ . Bonin Islands. 



Orthoea, Dallas. 



Elongated, black, opake ; head clothed with long hairs, first joint of the 



antennae with a pale base, remaining joints ; rostrum reaching to the 



posterior coxec, slender, curved, its color piceous, paler towards the lip, with a 

 black longitudinal line ; eyes brownish, darker upon the middle, stemmata 

 amber-yellow; thorax clothed with long hairs, deep black, opaque, posterior 

 lobe strongly punctured, a pale piceous spot upon the broad, transverse im- 

 pression, including a slightly elevated, short, longitudinal line ; anterior lobe 

 strongly convex ; scutellum black, coarsely but sparsely punctured ; hemelytra 

 testaceous, clavus, excepting the exterior nervure, vestiges upon the corium, 

 large transverse spot, extending from the apex of the scutellum to the lateral 

 margin and posterior margin, gradually dilating to the tip, black ; membrane 

 fuliginous, a number of small spots near the tip, nervules measurably, and 

 small round spot near the apex of the corium, testaceous ; disk of the tergum 

 rufescent, lateral margin and two posterior segments blackish, fourth segment 

 with a large, marginal, yellow spot each side ; beneath dull black, antepectus 

 punctured, postpectus yellow at its superior angles, minutely corrugated, 

 mediopectus punctured and wrinkled ; venter without lustre, a large yellowish 

 spot upon the margin of the fourth segment, and a smaller one upon the fifth ; 

 trochanters and coxje testaceous, anterior femora black, testaceous at base, 



[June, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 229 



armed with a number of minute teeth, tibiae all pale piceous, middle femora 

 piceous, paler toward the base. 

 Length 12 millim. $ . Hong-Kong, China. 



Peliosoma, Uhler. 



Body elongated ; head long, triangular, each side, between the antenna, with 

 a small, curved lamellae, concave on the exterior side, interrupted at the origin 

 of the rostrum, and not extending back much bejond the antennae ; rostrum 

 reaching but little behind the anterior coxae, basal and second joints subequal 

 in length, third and fourth also subequal ; antennas (J' as long as the body, ^ 

 not quite two-thirds of that length, basal joint longest, clavate at tip, second 

 somewhat longer than the third, fourth shortest, subfusiform ; thorax elongated 

 subtrapezoidal, base elevated, lateral margins obtusely and feebly carinated ; 

 hemelytra as long as the abdomen, membrane with five longitudinal nervules; 

 legs normal, anterior tibiae curved. 



P. antennata . — Tawney, lustrous, punctured with black ; head and thorax 

 densely punctured, the latter with a longitudinal, raised, polished, yellow line, 

 but little punctured, lateral obsolete, carina yellow, posterior angles tubercu- 

 lar; anterior lobe convex, a broad transverse depression behind it; antennfe 

 honey-yellow, paler upon the third joint, apices of the first and second joints 

 dusky, last joint entirely so ; eyes and ocelli brown ; rostrum fulvous, dusky 

 behind the middle to the tip ; scutellum with a yellow line at tip and a yellow, 

 short, tubercle-like line each side of base ; corium dusky near the internal 

 angle, apex with a small blackish dot, membrane honey-yellow, with white 

 nervules ; field of the tergum black, sides yellow, with black dots at the incisu- 

 ral margins; beneath varied with piceous and testaceous, pectus more uniformly 

 pitchy, densely punctured, margins of the venter taAvney yellow ; legs honey- 

 yellow, pointed with black ; tips of tibiae and tarsal joints blackish. 



Length 8 millim. Simoda, Japan. 



Opthalmiccs, Schill. 



0. V a r i u s . — Black ; head and legs orange-yellow ; antenna piceous, basa^ 

 joint and apex of the third, yellowish ; eyes light-brown, rostrum honey-yellowJ 

 thorax square, broader than long, surface polished, black, coarsely punctured; 

 posterior angles with a subquadrate, small, yellow spot ; scutellum black 

 punctured ; corium and membrane honey-yellow, the former punctured with 

 black, most thickly so upon the exterior and interior margins ; tergum and 

 beneath polished black ; pectus punctured. 



Length 5 millim (^. Simoda, Japan. 



It belongs to Fieber's second subdivision (a**) and seems to approach 

 his 0. s i c u 1 u s , more nearly than any other species. 



PYRRHOCORID^. 



PyrrhocoriS; Fallen. 



P. Forsteri, Fab. Ent. Syst. iv. 164. H. Schf. W. L viii. tab. 283, f, 

 3T2. Cape Good Hope. 



Dysdercus, Serv. 



D. carnifex. Fab. Ent. Syst. iv. 160. H. Schf. W. L ii. tab. 66, f. 199. 

 (Jape Good Hope. 



D. Schlanbuschii, Fab. Ent. Syst. iv. 155. Donovan, Ins. China, 

 tab. 20, f. 2. Hong Kong. 



LeptocobiS; Hahn. 



L. haemfttideus, Hahn., "W. I. tab. i, fig. 3, vol. i. Hong Kong, China, 



I860.] 




230 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



LARGID^. 

 Largds, Hahn. 

 L. c i n c t u s , H. Schf. W. I. vii. tab. 218, f. 683. California. 



ECTRYCHODIDiE. 



Physorhynchus, Serv. 

 P. crux, Thunb. Dissert. Acad. 156. Hahn. W.I. i. tab.5, f. 20. Cape 

 Good Hope. 



HARPACTORID^. 

 Arilus, Burm. 

 A. bifidus, Fab. Ent. Syst. 4, 204. Donovan, Ins. China, pi. 21, f. 5. 

 Hong Kong. 



Harfactob, Lap. 



H. nodipes. — Black, polished ; head black, pubescent, bilobed, grooved 

 between the ocelli ; ocelli whitish ; eyes large, black ; antennaj black, apical 

 joints piceous, pubescent, basal joint with two whitish rings upon the middle ; 

 rostrum robust, black ; thorax pubescent, longitudinal impressed line, inter- 

 rupted upon the middle of the posterior lobe, prothorax each side of the head 

 produced into a subacute tubercle ; scutellum without spinous processes ; 

 corium pitchy-black, membrane fuliginous, nervures darker ; tergum blackish, 

 lateral margins much dilated, crenulated, the incisures and a large postero- 

 lateral spot upon the two last segments, whitish ; beneath, black polished, 

 venter sprinkled with numerous round, yellow points, the two posterior seg- 

 ments tinged with pale piceous ; the spots of the upper marginal surface obvious 

 beneath; legs black, three knot-like pilose prominences upon, and near the 

 tips of the femora, two yellow bands upon the femora, and one upon the 

 tibiae : nodulse much less obvious in the (^ than in the 9 i yellow femoral 

 bands, also more numerous in the male. 



Length 12 millim. Simoda, Japan. 



STExXOPODIDtE. 



Canthesancus. 

 C. trimaculatus, Amyot et Serv. Hemipt. 389, pi. 7, fig. 20. Hong 

 Kong. 



GERRID^. 

 Halobates, Esch. 

 H. sericeus, Esch. Entomograp., 164, 79, tab. 2, f. 4. Atlantic Ocean 

 near the Equator. 



Ptilomera, Amyot et Serv. 



P. tigrina. — (^ Fulvous, polished, beneath silvery sericeous; rostrum 

 with the apical joint and tip of the preceding one black, nasus and spot at 

 the origin of the antenna black, head impressed at the origin of the rostrum, 

 eyes brownish-black ; prothorax subquadrate, largely impressed posteriorly, 

 sides of the thorax with a silvery undulating line bounded each side by a 

 black line, and extending from the base of the prothorax to the origin of the 

 posterior legs, sutures black, behind the head three minute spots, behind the 

 prothorax, included in a rounded impression, two larger ones and upon the 

 posterior transverse suture, silvery sericeous ; metathorax impressed each side 

 against the anterior transverse suture, and having a slender impressed middle 

 line ; abdomen much narrower than the thorax, about equal to it in length, 

 sutures black, particularly at the sides of the segments, sides of the segment.^ 

 slightly sericeous, anal and caudal appendages filiform, acute ; two lamellar 



fJune, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 231 



anal processes, emarginate above, each projecting into a subtruncate point 

 inferiorly ; legs long, slender, fulvous, posterior pair longest, anterior pair 

 with two slender black lines superiorly; a black spot each side upon the 

 pectus, before the anterior and middle legs ; anterior tibia and tarsi pubescent, 



middle tibia armed with long cilia, posterior tibia . 



Length to tip of abdomen 15 millim., prothorax 2, mesothorax 4 millim. 

 Hong Kong, China. 



Gerris, Fab. 



G. rufo-scutellatus, Latr. H. Schf. W. I. ix. 69. tab. ccc. fig. 924. 

 Simoda. 



PEDIRAPTI. 



DiPLONYCHUS, Lap. 

 D. rusticuSj Fab. ; Donovan, Ins. China, p. 46, pi. 19, fig. 1. Loo Choo. 



Nepa, Fab. 

 N. rubra, Linn. ; Donovan, Ins. China, p. 47, pi. 19, fig. 2. Hong Kong. 



NOTOxVECTID.E. 

 BoTHRONOTUs, Ficb. 



B. biimpressus. — Robust, shining, dusky-yellowish testaceous; head 

 narrower than the thorax, with a punctured impression each side upon the 

 front, from both of which a punctured, impressed line extends to a shallower 

 impression, each side, near the base, apical joint of the rostrum piceous : 

 thorax transversely wrinkled, transparent, a transverse brownish band upon 

 the anterior submargin ; each side, behind the fossa, depressed ; scutellnm 

 black ; corium with a pitchy stripe upon the interior suture, a spot at base and 

 against the apex, exterior submargin and membrane dusky; basal areole and 

 veins of the latter piceous; embolium and connected edge yellow; wings fuli- 

 ginous, veins darker; tergum piceous, posterior margins of the segment? 

 paler, lateral margins and caudal extremity yellowish, the last clothed with 

 long golden hairs ; venter pale piceous, middle carina and margins yellowish ; 

 legs testaceous, clothed with golden hairs. 



Length 11 millim, breadth of thorax 5 millim. Hong Kong. 



Var. a. Pale, luleo testaceous, ventral disk and basal areole of the mem- 

 brane dusky. 



Notes on Shells. 

 BY T. A. CONRAD. 



In "Tertiary Fossil Shells of the United States," I characterized a genus of 

 Carditidce, published in 1838, under the name of Carditamera, which ha.« 

 generally been referred to the genus Mytilicardia of Blainville. The two 

 genera differ so much in external form, that they can easily be recognized 

 without reference to the hinge. The former has the general form of an elonga- 

 ted Arca, Lam., whilst the latter has an outline somewhat like that of Modiola. 

 The genus Caeditamera, Dr. Gray has since named Lazaria, the reason for the 

 change of name being unknown to me. 



In this country the genus Carditamera, originated in the Miocene period, 

 which contains three known species, and there is one living, which inhabits the 

 coast of Florida. One is said to inhabit Madagascar, and all the others are 

 American. It does not appear that any species of Mytilicardia, is American, 

 either recent or fossil. The type of Carditamera is Cardita pectunculus, Brng. 



I860.] 




232 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Synopsis of the Genus Rangia. 



RANGIA, Desmoulins, (1832, Hermannsen). 



Clathrodon, Gray, MSS. Conrad, 1831. 



Gnathodon, Gray, 1837. 



1. Rangia cyrenoides, Desmoulins. (1831, ^rona.) 



G. cuneatus, Gray. 



2. R. flexuosa, Conrad, (Gnathodon,) 1840. 



G. rostratu?n, Petit de la Saussaye, 1853. 



3. R. parvum, ib. (Gnathodon.) 



4. R. men die a, Gould, (Gnathodon,) 1851. 



G. trigonum, Petit de la Sauss., 1853. 

 Fossil Species. 



1. Rangia clathro donta, Conrad, (Mactra.) 



Gnathodon, Grayi, ib. 



2. R. Lecontei, Conrad, (Gnathodon.) 



3. R. m i n r , Conrad, (ib.) 



PLEIODON, Conrad. 



The discovery of a new species of this African genus in Lake Tanganyika 

 suwcrests the probability that Pleiodon will prove the predominant form of 

 Unlonidee in tropical Africa, and we may anticipate the discovery of many 

 species by future explorers. It occupies in geographical distribution as impor- 

 tant a position as (Jastalia and Triquetra do in tropical South America. I 

 presume from the peculiar and distinct character of the hinge of Pleiodon, 

 that the animal will be found somewhat different in organization from those of 

 other genera of Unionida;. It will be interesting to learn whether this form is 

 accompanied or not by species of the nearest allied genus Mctela, at present 

 known only to exist in the Nile. 



PARAMYA, Conrad. 



I propose the above name as a substitute for Mtalina, Conrad, figured and 

 described in " Foss. of Medial Tert. of the U. S." p. 65, pi. 36, fig. 4. A very 

 different genus was designated Myalina, by De Koninck, and has priority. 

 Geographical distribution of the Genus Lemopsis Sassi. 



Recent species. Red Sea, 1. Capeof Good Hope. 1, 120 fathoms. Singapore, 



1. Norway, 1. 



Fossil species. Eocene of Claiborne, Alab. 7. Texas, 1. English crag. 2. 



D'Orbiguy in his Prodromus, names 7 Jurassic species, 3 Cretaceous sp., 17 

 Miocene and 1 Subappenine sp. of European formations. In North America I 

 believe no species has been found older than those of the Eocene, and no 

 recent one. 



ADEORBIS, Wood. 



This genus occurring recent in England, California and the West Indies, and 

 fossil in the English Miocene, is represented in the Miocene of the United 

 States by 1 species. 



A. 1 y r a , {Delphinula lyra, Con.,) see Proceed. Acad. Nat. Sci. vol. 3, 

 p. 20. 



[June, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 233 



Descriptions of three new species of Gorgonidae, in the collection of the 



Academy. 



BY GEO. H. HORN. 



LOPHOGORGIA. 



L. cl av a t a. — Polypary bipinnate. Trunk and branches very much flat- 

 tened. Branchlets thick, and but slightly compressed, clavate at their ex- 

 tremities. Calices numerous and projecting. Coenenchyme thick. Color 

 reddish-pink. 



This species differs from the L. fl a m m e a , in its more numerous and pro- 

 jecting calices. The bi-anchlets of the latter are much flattened and acumi- 

 nate, and have an intense red color. 



Locality unknown. 



L. aurantiaca . — Polypary very much subdivided. Trunk but slightly 

 flattened. Branchlets numerous and rounded, arising in pairs from opposite 

 sides of the branches. Calices numerous and slightly elevated. Coenenchyme 

 thin. Color orange, striped with red. 



This species is much more subdivided than either of the others, and has its 

 trunk and branches much less flattened. The color of the trunk, deprived of 

 the cortex, is red. 



Locality unknown. 



Rhipidigorgia. 



R. Engelmanni. — Flabellate, coarsely reticulate. Branches much flat- 

 tened, from one to two and a half lines wide. Interspaces rounded, occasion- 

 ally elongated to the extent of one inch. Color ochreous externally, purple 

 or reddish within. 



The fronds of this species are higher than wide, (height 9 inches, width 6 

 inches,) bearing no free branchlets. Calices large and crowded, quadrangular 

 in outline, with no elevation of their edges. Coenenchyme thick, easily 

 crushed. 



Locality. Mazatlan. Dr. Engelmann. 



The Catting Ant of Texas. 

 BYS. B. BUCKLEY. 



Myrmica (Atta) Texana — " Cutting Ant." 

 Description. 



Neuter. Color reddish-brown; head disproportionately large, mandibles large, 

 triangular falcate, serrate, bent downwards in adult, two small, short spines at 

 the back of each lobe of the head ; sinus between lobes large ; antennas two 

 two-jointed, last joint clavate; thorax small, compressed, upper surface armed 

 with six spines, front pair inclining forwards, middle pair erect, Smallest, and 

 near front pair, back pair inclining backwards ; connecticum nodose, two- 

 jointed ; abdomen about half as large as head, oblong, ovate, obtuse; legs two- 

 clawed, a claw or spine near the base of the tibia of the two front legs. Adult 

 4^ lines long. 



Female. Color reddish-brown ; head disproportionately small ; sinus small be- 

 tween its lobes, rudiments of spines at back of each lobe ; antennae and mandibles 

 as in neuter; thorax large, upper front protruding over tbe head, compressed, 

 upper surface covered with thick downy hairs ; abdomen larger than thorax, 



I860.] 15 




234 TROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



ovate, obtuse. Length without wings, 8^ lines. Largest wings 1 inch 1 line 

 in length. Entire length, 1 inch 4 lines. 



Male. Resembles female, but is a little smaller, with its head and abdomen 

 more acute. 



These auts have homes in the ground. A few of their underground dwellings 

 have lately been brought to view, by digging, in order to kill the ants, because 

 they destroy what belongs to the farmer and horticulturist. The extent of 

 these ant galleries and cells, is so great as almost to exceed belief; but several 

 of the excavations made to slay ants are within the incorporated limits of the 

 city of Austin, and have been seen by hundreds of its citizens. The under- 

 ground rooms of these cutting ants are rounded or oblong cavities, all con- 

 nected by cylindrical passages, of a diameter varying from one to three or even 

 more inches. Some cells are six inches wide, by nearly as many in height, and 

 others twelve inches high, with a shorter diameter of some six to eighteen inches 

 and the longer diameter three feet, and sometimes even more. These chambers 

 are often one above the other, and again side by side ; but on the whole, they 

 do not seem to be placed with any apparent order, being scattered under- 

 ground at various dist.mces apart, from two inches to as many feet. In a 

 clay soil they appear to be coated or varnished with a very thin, dirty brown, 

 waxlike secretion. In sandy ground, to keep the walls firm, they are plastered 

 with a black limestone earth, abounding in portions of the prairies and river 

 bottoms. This often has to be carried a distance of many rods; and then the 

 amount of their labor and its results are truly wonderful, showing their know- 

 ledge to be equal to that of any race of ants known. Their lowest chambers 

 are generally ten and twelve feet deep, while the upper cells are rarely nearer 

 the surface than eighteen inches, I extended a tape line down to the bottom of 

 one, and found it seventeen feet deep; at one of their largest dens, a room was 

 found sixteen feet beneath the surface, and several others were at near the 

 same depth. At that place, the ground is dug out from twelve to sixteen feet 

 deep, extending over an area having an average diameter of twenty-five feet, 

 all of which was filled with ant cells. Several large avenues (4 — 5 in. diam.) 

 entered the bottom of this large den. On striking an avenue, some ants were 

 seen to enter it followed by others, loaded with barley, all coming from that 

 underground passage. Where they got the barley was the question, which 

 was finally solved by going to a stable more than three hundred feet distant; 

 trom which ants were seen to descend, each with his barley grain, and enter a 

 hole in the ground near the base of the stable, which was the only place in the 

 vicinity where there was any barley. Another avenue on the other side, is 

 said to come out at the bank of a stream, between two and three hundred feet 

 distant, where are some elm trees, from which the ants obtained bits of leaves, 

 .snd carried them through said avenue into the base of the den. That they 

 have extensive underground passages, there is not the least doubt. A gentle- 

 man recently told me of an instance where they dug under or tunneled a 

 stream to get into a garden. There was a large ant den across the stream, and 

 for a long time the garden was safe from their depredations, but finally the 

 cuttino' ants were seen there, carrying bits of leaves into a small hole in the 

 iTOund. There was no ant den in the vicinity, except the one across the creek, 

 and as there were no dirt heaps on the surface of the ground in the garden, as 

 there always are above an ant den, the inference was, that those cutting ants 

 seen in the garden belonged to the tribe across the river ; if so, it is probable 

 that some of their wise ones, when on the trees in the vicinity of their abode, 

 beheld the fine things in the garden, to obtain which they advised tunneling 

 the stream. 



The question will naturally arise, how is it possible for them to direct their 

 course in digging those long underground passages so as to reach the surface 

 at the wished for spot? Let those who ask, also answer; I only know that 

 such long avenues exist, having thrust a long stick into one at the bottom of 

 one of their dens, and I have also seen the outer openings of many of them on 



[Jane, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 235 



the banks of rivers and streams, whose water gives the ants drink, and where 

 food can easily be had from the trees and bushes usually found growing on the 

 banks of streams in all prairie lands. 



At the large ant den in Austin, before spoken of, millions of working ants, 

 and bushels of eggs and larvpe, with great numbers of males and females, were 

 destroyed. As soon as a large apartment containing the eggs, larvse and 

 winged ants was found, a fire was kindled forthwith among them, for which pur- 

 pose, light, combustible stuff was kept near. The eggs were of different sizes, 

 belonging to opposite sexes, also showing, probably, that they grow, and were 

 in a greater or less advanced stage of development. The workers at first are 

 very small, scarcely a line in length. The eggs mixed with minute young ants, 

 were in a soft, grey spongy substance, apparently leaves, finely triturated and 

 mixed with an animal secretion. 



It is said they sometimes abandon their caves, when from long residence the 

 chambers become filthy, or perhaps they are injured by heavy rains, or it may 

 be that the ants desire a better situation for provender. Whatever may be the 

 cause, they have been known to emigrate en masse, and after making new ex- 

 cavations, and dwelling in them a few years, to return again to their old first 

 residence. It is probable that they have a division of labor, some nurse the 

 young, and others provide food. In one instance I saw one cut off a segment 

 of an elm leaf, and another seized it as soon as cut, and carried if away, but 

 generally I have noticed that he who cuts also carries. When cutting, one 

 mandible is inserted, and carried slowly along; the head swaying to and fro, 

 and the other mandible moving its sharp point, apparently breaking the surface 

 to lessen the thickness to be cut by the other. The ant often stands on the 

 part of the leaf which he is cutting off, but he is careful to remove to a firm 

 place before it is finally severed, which done, he seizes one edge of it with his 

 mandibles, and with a rapid movement throws it on his head and thorax, so 

 that its lower edge rests between the lobes of the head and the spines of the 

 thorax, and the upper edge is aloft. Away he goes, and joins the busy throng 

 in the main path, which looks as if the ants had a gala day, and were march- 

 ing with banners flying. Lately, on the banks of the Colorado river, near 

 Austin, I saw multitudes of ants in their path, going up hill with fragments of 

 leaves, and hack berries, (celtis,) some entire, and others with a small portion 

 cut off, to render them lighter and suitable to be carried by the smaller ants. 

 The place at which they entered the ground was about six feet from the top of 

 the bank. This pathway was steep, and even perpendicular, for a distance of 

 five or six inches, at a place about one foot below their doorway. The labor 

 was severe to carry the berries up this path, but the struggle was great to 

 get them to the top of the perpendicular spot. In performing this feat the 

 berry carriers met with many falls, often rolling one and two feet down the hill 

 but always sticking fast to their burdens, and trying again until they finally 

 triumphed. One fell when near the top, and as he came up again, and was 

 about to succeed, I touched his load with the point of a knife, and down it 

 and ant went. His third attempt was put to the same test, but even then, he 

 did not get angry, or show the least impatience, but cheerfully took his berry, 

 and went up and in at the door of the long avenue. 



A lady lately showed me a safe where she kept sugar and sweetmeats, which 

 drew swarms of small ants. The legs of the safe were then placed in vessels of 

 water, and the ants did not succeed in reaching the sweets during several days, 

 but finally many of them were found in the sugar. After some little study to 

 discover how they got there, they were seen to drop on the safe from the roof 

 at the distance of about two feet above. These, however, were not the cutting 

 ants, and I only mention their feats because they are similar to those related 

 of ants by an East India officer. A gentleman told me that he suspended 

 sugar by a string from a rafter in his house, to keep it from ants, but they went 

 up and came down the string. They also were not the cutting ants, which 

 rarely, if ever, enter houses. 



I860.] 




236 PROCEEDINGS OF TEE ACADEMY OP 



The cutting ants often assist each other. I saw one which fell with a hack 

 berry, at the vertical place before named. The berry got loose from him, and 

 instead of shouldering it again, he tried to drag it along, but was unable to 

 pull it up the perpendicular. Many passed him and gave the cold shoulder ; 

 finally a iiind ant came and pushed. By shoving and pulling the two succeeded 

 in getting the berry to the top, when the assister immediately left, and started 

 down the hill. They live on both animal and vegetable |food. I have seen 

 them carrying both worms and bugs. Whole beetles and numerous elytra 

 have been found in their cells, but nothing indicating that they lay up large 

 stores of food; like some of the East India ants, which have been seen to fetch 

 their stores of corn to the surface to dry after heavy rains. The common 

 tumble bug, {Canthon lavis.) in rolling his ball, sometimes heedlessly backs up 

 over a nest of the cutting ants, and falls a victifti, being overcome by numbers. 

 Once I saw a very large one roll his ball into their midst, when he was fiercely 

 attacked by the multitude. At first he stuck his nose in the sand, or rather 

 between his forelegs, but the bites behind were so severe that he roused and 

 flew in circles, finally alighting near me, which was no sooner done than an 

 ant who had accompanied the flight, jumped to the ground, for a moment 

 looked bewildered, then ran for home, it may be, to tell of his wonderful ride on 

 the big bug. 



The damage which these ants do, is great, by destroying trees and vegeta- 

 bles. I know of one family who are about to leave a beautiful situation near a 

 fine spring, because the cutting ants have nearly killed their fruit trees and 

 ornamental shrubbery, especially roses, for which they have a peculiar fond- 

 ness. They have been known to strip a fruit tree of its leaves in a single 

 night. In some sections these ants prevent the cultivation of fruit. Thou- 

 sands of dollars have been uselessly spent in attempts to kill them by blowing 

 noxious gasses into their dens, or by placing poisons at the doorways of their 

 dwellings. A knowledge of the habits and abodes of these insects show the 

 futility of such attempts ; the fact is, but few of these can be reached by gas, 

 let the bellows blow ever so hard, nor can many be killed by poison, even if 

 the most deadly be placed within their doorways, for as soon as they discover 

 harm, they form a new entrance. The only eflFectual method of destroying 

 them is to dig, and kill the females and young, when the neuters will soon 

 perish. This is so expensive that it will only be resorted to near a garden or 

 dwelling, and as the cutting ants are scattered through western and central 

 Texas, they probably never will be exterminated by man. 



Contributions to the Carboniferous Flora of the TTnited States. 



BY HORATIO C. WOOD, JR. 



Calamites Suckow. 



C. bicostatus nobis. — Stem slender, bicostate, with distant articula- 

 tions ; ribs undulate, double, a very narrow, alternating with a broader one ; 

 tubercles obsolete. The distant articulations and the double, undulate ribs 

 characterize this as a very distinct species. 



Annularia Sternb. 

 A. dubi a nobis. 



Syn. Bechera dubia Stern. Vers. vol. i. p. 30, t. 51 fig. 3, 1821. Annularia 

 minuia Brong. Prod. p. 155. 



A. stell ata nobis. 



Syn. Casuarinites stellatus Schloth. Flora der Vorwelt, t. i. fig. 4, 1804, ejus- 

 dem, Nacht. Petref. 1822. Bornia stellata Sternb. Vers. i. p. 28. Annularia 

 longifolia Brongt. Prod. 1828. Asterophyllites equiseii/ormis Lind. et Hutton, 

 Fobs. Flora, vol. ii. t. 124. 



[June, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 287 



ASTEROPHYLLITES. 



A. reflexa nobis. 



Sjn. Annularia retlexa Steriib. Vers. i. j'- 31, t. 19, fig. 5. AsterojyhyJUtes 

 Brardii, Brongt. Prod. 



If this is a distinct species (wbicli is doubtful) it must retain tlie specific 

 name of the first author. 



SiciLLARiA Brongt. 



Stem not articulate, corticate, costate, smooth or striate; ribs of various 

 widths, having furrows interposed between them ; cicatrices discoid, disposed 

 spirally upon the r/fis, their longitudinal diameter exceeding the transverse ; 

 vascular scars varying in number, mostly linear. 



The great fossil botanist, Brongniart, united the three genera of Sternberg, 

 (Rhytidolepis, Favularia and Syringodendron,) with the title of Sigillaria. 

 More modern authors have, however, rescparated them, retaining Brongniart's 

 name for the first division of Sternb. 



Among recent writers, Messrs. Lindley and Button, have acknowledged the 

 genus Favularia, but Unger, Lesquereux and others do not. We have not 

 seen sufficient specimens of this genus to justify us in offering an opinion. 



Rhytidolepis, has, we believe, the right of priority over Sigillaria, but as the 

 latter is now universally employed, it would cause too much confusion to re- 

 vert to the original title. 



M. Brongniart says, (see top of page 393, Veg. Fosa.) " this genus is charac- 

 terized by the longitudinal diameter of scars at least equalling the transverse, 

 and that ordinarily it is much greater." A very few of the species which we 

 would recognise as true Sigillaria, depart slightly from this rule, but it is im- 

 possible to characterize a genus in fossil botany, some of whose forms will not 

 approach those of another division, for the simple reason, that any classifica- 

 tion, however ingenious, must necessarily be purely artificial. 



According to the oldest classification, all fossil plants were referred to the 

 two genera, Filicites and Phytolithus. The present system has arisen by 

 splitting off, as it were, section after section from these. 



The classification of vegetable reliquse may thus continue to advance, and it 

 is with the hope it may prove a step in the right direction, that we propose 

 a partial revision of the genus Sigillaria. 



S. perplex a, n. sp. — Stem costate, costa varying in their width; bark 

 thin ; cicatrices quadrangular, conjoined by their raised confluent borders ; 

 vascular scars obsolete. 



We place this very remarkable fossil in this group until better specimens 

 can be obtained for further study. Though the vascular scars are not pre- 

 served, yet we cannot say they have never existed. When the bark is stript 

 from the stem, a raised border is seen to underlie the margin of external scar. 

 Locality and position unknown. Cabinet of the Academy. 



S. solan us, n. sp. — Stem costate ; ribs strongly convex, striate, and with 

 a striate groove in the middle ; cicatrices placed in this groove, small, distant 

 subdi.-^coidal, often elongated with iheir base rounded and apex somewhat 

 truncate ; vascular scars three, those on the sides linear, arcuate. 



In our specimen the distance between the scars is about five times their 

 length. The depression or channel is slightly widened at their position, and 

 between them a band, equalling them in width, is finely chased by very numer- 

 ous minute striae. Locality, Shaever's Drift, East Norwegia. Position unknown. 

 Collection of the Academy. 



AsoLANCS nobis. 



Stem not costate, striate ; striae straight or curved, regularly or irregularly 

 disposed ; cicatrices discoid, single, their transverse exceeding the longitudinal 

 diameter ; vascular scars varying in number, mostly linear. 



1860.J 




238 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



We think the absence of ribs is sufficient to found a generic distinction on. 

 but this genus is also separated from Sigillaria, by the excess of the transverse 

 over the longitudinal diameter of the leaf-scar. 



A. camptotaenia, n. sp. — Stem striate ; striae disposed in two series; 

 in the one, contiguous, numerous, descending towards the right; in the other, 

 few, and ascending towards the right; cicatrices sub-triangular rounded at apex, 

 acuminate at the base ; vascular scars almost obsolete. Locality and position 

 unknown. Cabinet of the Academy. 



A. r n i t h i c n o i d e s, n. sp. — Stem longitudinally striate, vascular cica- 

 trices three, linear, the middle much the longest. 



This is uadoubtedly decorticated and the markings are often obscured by 

 adherent flakes of coal ; but the peculiar disposition of the scars render this 

 species y&vj distinct. The middle impression projecting in front and behind 

 gives the scars an appearance resembling that of bird tracks, which is often height- 

 ened by short curved striae projecting from the side marks. Near the top and 

 bottom of the specimen are two large oval scars, which, perhaps, mark the 

 former position of branches; if so, this further separates this genus from Sigil- 

 laria, which Brongt. says do not branch. Locality, Jlilnes Mine, St. Clair. 

 Position unkuowu. Collection of the Academy. 



Syrixgodendron Sternb. 



Stem tree-like furrowed, costate ; cicatrices either single or double ; vascu- 

 lar scars for the most part wanting, but sometimes represented by a single 

 dot. 



This is a very poorly defined genus, and we think that at some future date it 

 will be broken up into several. We have seen no vascular scar in any speci- 

 men, and think that species possessing such will be found to have other char- 

 acters in common sufficient to warrant their erection into a distinct genus. 



For the present we follow Sternberg in dividing into two sub-genera — a. 

 those with a single scar ; b, those with a double scar. 



S. m a g n i f i c a, n. sp. — Stem not costate ; striate Qwhen decorticated), bark 

 VQij seldom preserved ; cicatrices double, oval, arranged in spiral, undulating 

 rows ten to fifteen lines apart. 



The distance between the pairs of scars is very variable, but never, in our 

 specimens, exceeding twice their length. The two scars are often fused into 

 one, with a broad disk of coal adherent. This species is seldom found with 

 the bark remaining, we have seen but a single very poor specimen of it in that 

 state. Owing to the absence of ribs, we think that it should not be classed in 

 this genus. But desiring to avoid creating genera unneccessarily, we place it 

 provisionally here. If other similar species should be found, constituting a 

 distinct group, we would propose the name of Diplotaxis. 



SoLENOULA nobis. 



Stem ribbed, costse narrow, convex; furrows equalling in width the ribs; 

 cicatrices round, situated in the/«rTOws between the ribs; vascular scars un- 

 known. 



We have created this genus to receive a very curious fossil from Schuylkill 

 Co., Pa. Although the specimen is large and very handsome, yet the cortex 

 is not sufficiently preserved, for us to uote the form or even existence of vascu- 

 lar scars. 



S. p s i 1 o ph 1 oe u s, n. sp. — Stem costata, costa convex, furrows and ribs 

 striate, bark thin, cicatices convex, situate in middle of the furrows. Locality, 

 -Milnes Mine, St. Clair. Position, body of Mammoth Vein. Collection of the 

 Academy. 



Lepidodendron Sternb. 

 L. dubium n. sp. — Cicatrices lanceolate, approximate, strongly convex, 



[June, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 239 



with apex and base acuminate ; margin sunken, flexuous, very narrow ; vascu- 

 lar scars lanceolate. 



In our specimen tlie vascular scars are almost obsolete and have a slight 

 bulbous enlargement in the centre. Where the bark remains, the crest of the 

 scar alone reaches the surface. We place this plant, with some hesitation, among 

 the Lepidodendra. It is, however, allied to L. rimosum and L. undula- 

 tum, and with them ought perhaps t J be erected into a separate genus. If 

 this should b? found advisable, we would propose the name Acrostigma. Lo- 

 cality and position unknown. Collection of the Academy. 



L. in gens n. sp. — Cicatrices sub-rhomboidal, with apex and base acumi- 

 nate, and base curved ; margin distinct, furrowed, regularly flexuous ; vascu- 

 lar scar sub-triangular, rounded at its apex, with the angles acute; tubercles 

 distinct obovate ; middle line almost obsolete, its situation marked by a shal- 

 low groove. 



This large species, somewhat resembles L. giganteum Lesq. from which, 

 however, the outline and disposition of leaf-scars separate it. 



L. m e k i s t o n, n. sp. — Cicatrices, elongate with both apex and base acumi- 

 nate and the base curved; margin raised, regularly flexuous; vascular scars 

 sub-rhomboidal, with acute angles and marked with two or three dots ; ap- 

 pendices distinct, very long, tubercles obovate ; medial line deeply furrowed, 

 transversely rugose. 



The internal markings, of cicatriculi as well as the tubercles, are very often 

 badly preserved. Tlie general form of main scar resembles L. Lindleyanum 

 Ung., whilst the raised border and form of vascular scars ally the plant to 

 L. aculeatum Sternb. The more elongated cicatrix and the acute angles 

 of the cicatriculi, separate it from the latter species. It also differs in the 

 situation of tubercles and length of appendices. Locality and position un- 

 known. Cabinet of tbe Academy. 



L. w e n i, n. sp. — Cicatrices rhomboidal with somewhat curved base and 

 apex ; margin distinct, flexuous ; vascular scars rhomboidal, placed near the 

 apex of the cicatrix ; appendices parallel to the margin ; medial line well 

 marked, flexuous. 



Syn. L. aculeatum Sternb. ii. sp. — Owen Geological Survey of Wisconsin, 

 Iowa, &c., vol. ii. pi. vi. figs. 1, 3. That the impressions there figured are not 

 L. aculeatum Sternb. we think is shown by the following considerations : 

 1st. The shape and relative position of the leaf-scars in the two are quite dif- 

 ferent. 2d. The vascular scars differ in outline and in Sternb. 's species they 

 are marked with three dots which are wanting in Owen's. 3d. Tubercles are 

 present in L. a c u 1 e a tu ra Sternb. but not in Owen's figures. Finally the 

 margins of the cicatrices differ. 



The outline of our specimens differ somewhat from those figured in tbe Re- 

 port, but we think that the species are identical. Locality, unknown. Posi- 

 tion, Sandstone below the coal? Cabinet of the Academy. 



L. d i k r ch e i 1 u s, n. sp. — Cicatrices sub-elliptical with apex and base 

 acuminate and the base curved ; margin raised, broad, regularly flexuous, vas- 

 cular scars sub-rhomboidal, with apex and base rounded and angles at the 

 sides very acute, marked with three dots ; medial line almost obsolete, slightly 

 rugose. 



The margin of this species so bifurcates, that on the right side it receives an 

 offset from the same side of the neighboring scar; thus making it nearly twice 

 as wide on the right hand side below, and on the left, above. Locality, Broad 

 Top Coal Region. Position, Roof of Cook's (upper) Seam. Private collec- 

 tion. 



L venustum, n. sp. — Cicatrices rhomboidal, with their base truncate ; 

 margin narrow, flexuous ; vascular scar rhomboidal, placed above the middle 



I860.] 




240 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



of leaf-scar ; tubercles obovate ; appendices well marked, flexuous ; middle 

 line distinct, transversely rugose. 



The left tubercle is obsolete, and when present is placed lower than the 

 right ; the middle line is sometimes flexuous. Locality and position unknown. 

 Cabinet of the Academy. 



L. drepanaspis, n. sp. — Cicatrices rhomboidal with rounded angles ; 

 margin flexuous ; vascular scar triangular, raised, placed in apex of leaf-scar, 

 bounded below by a crescentic slope, on which are the tubercles ; appendices 

 parallel to the margin ; medial line transversely rugose. 



This species somewhat resembles L. clypeatum Lesq., but is very differ- 

 ent when more closely examined. Locality and position unknown. Cabinet 

 of the Academy. 



L. Lesquereuxi, n. sp. — Cicatrices sub-rhomboidal, elongated, with the 

 apex and base acuminate, vascular scars curved, sub-rhomboidal, their 

 apex rounded and other angles acute, marked with two or three (sometimes 

 obsolete, sometimes confluent) dots ; appendices distinct ; medial line very 

 strongly marked, transversely rugose. 



It is with great pleasure that we dedicate this handsome species to Prof. 

 Lesquereux, to whom every American Geologist is indebted for time and toil 

 spent in elucidating the ancient Flora of this continent. This plant, besides 

 the above characters, has also a crescentic scar, situated in the apex of leaf- 

 scar and marked with two, often obsolete, dots. Locality unknown. Posi- 

 tion, Sandstone below the Coal? Cabinet of the Academy. 



L. B r d ae, n. ?p. — Cicatrices rhomboidal, elongate, with apex and base 

 acuminate and curved; margin distinct; vascular scars placed near the apex 

 of cicatrix, trapezoidal, marked with two (often obsolete) dots ; appendices well 

 marked; tubercles obsolete ; medial line distinct, transversely rugose. 



This species is allied to L. elegans Brong., but is separated from it by 

 the scars being more elongated and the consecutive ones communicating, as 

 well as by the difference in the proportion of the length to the breadth of the 

 cicatriculi and the much greater rugosity of medial line. Two magnificent 

 specimens were presented to the Academy by Mr. Borda, the largest measuring 

 3 feet 7 inches by 13 inches. Locality and position. Top slates of Back Vein, 

 south side of Mine Hill, in the Black Heath Colliery. 



Lepidophlogos Sternb. 



M. linger (Gen. et Spec. Plan. Fossil) marks this as a doubtful genus, 

 but we think it is quite a distinct one. 



L, icthyolepis, n. sp. — Stem large ; cortex thin ; cicatrices approximate, 

 raised, triangular, furnished with an appendix on each side and one in the 

 middle; vascular scars not preserved. Locality, Roof of Perseverance Tunnel, 

 Dauphin Co., Pa. Cabinet of the Academy. 



Mr. Lesquereux, in his "Catalogue of American Coal Plants," gives L. c r a s - 

 s i c a u 1 e , as a species of Brongt.; we are unable to find it in the works of that 

 author, neither is it in Unger (op. cit.) As Prof. Lesquereux does not describe 

 it we are at a loss as to its nature. 



Lepidostroecs Brong. 



L. stachyoides, n. sp. — Catkin small, about two and a half lines in 

 breadth and an inch in length ; sporanges rhomboidal with flexuous margins, 

 arranged in a single row on each side of the slender axis. 



In the specimen a leaf of Lepidodendron has such relations to the fruit as to 

 appear at first sight to have been connected with it, but closer examination 

 shows this not to have been the case. 



[June, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 241 



Catalogue of the Colubridse in the Museum of the Academy of Natural Sciences 

 of Philadelphia, with notes and descriptions of new species. Fart 2. 



BY E. D. COPE. 



CORONELLIK^. 



ToLUCA Kennicott. Tjpe T. 1 i n e a t a . 



U. S. and Mex. Boundary Survey, ii. pt. 2, Reptiles, p. 23, 1859. 



Toluca diifers from Amblymetopon Gthr. in possessing two pairs of frontal 

 plates instead of one, and the nasal and first upper labial are not confluent. 

 Gyalopion nobis has two pairs of frontals, but the rostral is recurved and 

 acute, and the first labial is confluent with the nasal. The contact of the post- 

 frontals, the want of anterior prolongation of the vertical, the concavity of the 

 rostral, and presence of anterior frontals, distinguish the latter from Amblyme- 

 topon. In these genera the teeth are smooth, of equal lengths and a little 

 stouter posteriorly. In Arrhyton* Olhr. (Cat. Brit. Mus. p. 244) the posterior 

 upper maxillary is longer, and separated from the anterior by an interspace, 

 (diacranterian.) These genera possess a strong resemblance to the Calama- 

 rian type of form — where some of them have been placed by authors — but we 

 believe them to be more nearly allied to the Stenorhina, Rhinostoma and Cemo- 

 phora, which are not to be separated from the Coronelliform genera Simotes, 

 Lampropeltis, etc. Indeed, comparison with such typical Calamarian forms as 

 Calamaria, Aspidura, Rhabdosoma, Carphophiops, etc., shows a less complete 

 want of distinction of head and body, a less degree of rigidity of the latter, 

 and a greater resemblance to the higher types in the forms of the superciliary 

 and labial plates. We do not think their small size at all conclusive as to their 

 pertinence to the Calamarinffi, though an opposite opinion might be held by 

 such herpetologists as would place the Old World " Ablabes," the Diadophis 

 and Tajniophis of the New in that group. 



Allied to Toluca and Cemophora nobis, is a genus inhabiting the south- 

 western regions of the United States, called Lamprosoma by Dr. Hallowell, 

 (Proceed. Acad. N. S. viii. p. 311.) As this name was previously employed by 

 Kirby for a genus of Coleoptera, we propose replacing it here by Chionactis, 

 given in allusion to the refulgent whiteness of the scales. The typical and 

 only well-ascertained species is Rhinostoma occipitale Hallow., (Proc. 

 Acad. vii. 1854, p. 95.) This serpent has been erroneously stated by Dr. Giin- 

 ther, P. Z. S. 1858, p. 387, to be a native of West Africa. The muzzle is more 

 depressed than in Toluca, and there is a loreal plate. The equal teeth, single 

 nasal and more depressed head and snout, separate it from Cemophora. 



83. T, 1 i n e a t a, Kenn. 1. c. U. S. Pac. R. R. Rept. ix. Reptiles, fig. 35, pi. 8. 

 One sp. Toluca Valley, Mexico. Smithsonian Inst. 



Pariaspis nobis. Type P. plumbeatra. 



Body cylindrical ; tail one- eighth of total length. Head scarcely distinct, 

 broad and swollen at the temples, in front very short and depressed. Superior 

 maxillary bone short, its teeth gradually increasing in length posteriorly, none 

 grooved. Pupil round. Top of head covered with the ordinary nine plates, 

 the frontals relatively small, occipitals large. Two nasals, the nostril in the 



* Arryton t sb n i a t u m Gthr 1. c. 



The adult of this species measures 16 in. 10 1. in length; the tail 3 in. 7 lines. The 

 color of the lower surface is brownish yellow, and extends upon the third row of scales. 

 Above dark brown, with three indistinct longitudinal lines, as in Gunther's description. 

 These notes are taken from a specimen belonging to the Museum at Cambridge, Mass. 



I860.] 




242 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



anterior, which is very small. No loral. Preocular one, post-oculars two. 

 Sixth upper labial touching the occipital, which latter is separated from the 

 posterior labials by a single plate. Anal and urosteges entire. Scales smooth. 



84. P. plumbeatra nobis. — Seven superior labials, eye over third and 

 fourth; the first as large as the postnasal, the last three very large. Preocular 

 small. Rostral small, rather prominent. Vertical presenting an obtuse angle 

 in front, its lateral borders parallel and equal in length to the latero-posterior. 

 Occipitals elongate acute, their divaricating tips separated by a small plate. 

 Exteriorly they are bordered by one temporal and the sixth upper labial. In- 

 ferior labials seven. Geneials two pair, the anterior broader in front, and one- 

 third longer than the posterior. Scales in fifteen longitudinal rows, very 

 smooth. Gastrosteges 140, an anal, urosteges 44. Total length IG in. 8 lines : 

 tail 2 in. 9 1. 



Color above a uniform blackish lead color, paler on the head. Chin and 

 belly yellowish, the inferior labials and gastrosteges tipped with the color of 

 the back, the latter posteriorly spotted with the same. Under surface of tail 

 grey. 



One specimen of this interesting serpent is in the Museum of the Academy, 

 presented by Mr. E. T. Cresson, a gentleman to whom we are also in- 

 debted for fine specimens of Boodon virgatum, Dryiopbis Kirtlandii, 

 Boiga pulverulent a, etc. The Pariaspis is a native of Liberia, in the same 

 zoological district with the Holuropholis, Dipsadoboa, Brachycranion, etc.. 

 which it represents in this group. 



Stenorhina Dum. & Bibr. Type S. ventralis. 

 Erpetologie Generale, vii. p. 865, 1853. 



85. S. Kennicottiana nobis. — Form stout, thick, the head not distinct. 

 Muzzle acute. Number of rows of scales and head shields as in S. ventralis. 

 except that there are eight inferior labials instead of seven, the fourth being 

 the largest instead of the third. The anterior geneial plates are more elongate, 

 the length being twice the breadth, and the posterior are more produced, and 

 are separated by a narrow intercalary shield. The postnasal is very large, and 

 is joined to the preocular by a suture half the length of the latter. Tail one- 

 fifth of the total length. Gastrosteges 155 ; one divided anal ; urosteges 39 pair. 

 Total length 22 in. 3 1. ; tail 4 in. 5 1. 



Coloration. Above brown, the body crossed by thirty-six deep brown or 

 black bands. These are irregular and very narrow, not wholly involving any 

 scale which they cross. On the flanks they are interrupted and irregular. 

 Chin, belly and under surface of the tail yellow, with au irregular medial line 

 formed by adjacent spots near their extremities. Superior labials yellow, the 

 sixth and seventh bordered above with black. Top of the head uniform brown. 

 One sp. Isthmus of Panama. Drs. Gallaer and LeConte. 



This species is dedicated to Mr. Robert Kennicott of Washington, a gentle- 

 man possessing a knowledge of North American Serpents not excelled by any 

 other naturalist. 



86. S. ? 



We have before us two specimens of the young of what is probably an under- 

 scribed species of Stenorhina. Their immature age is indicated by the division 

 of several of the gastrosteges upon the umbilical region. In both specimens 

 the tail is only one-eighth of the total length, in the ventralis a little more 

 than one-fifth. The scales in the latter are relatively larger, and the vertical 

 plate a little broader. In a specimen of the former, from Veragua, the gastros- 

 teges number 165, urosteges 35 ; in the second, collected by Dr. Sartorius in 

 the hills west of Vera Cruz, and in the possession of the Smithsonian Institute, 

 they are 155x32. In the ventralis the Erp. Gen. gives 149x44. The 



[June. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 243 



color of our specimens is liglit brown, crossed by numerous bands or elongated 

 spots of deep brown bordered with paler. Sides and belly spotted with the 

 same. 



The specimen of S. ventralis sent to the Smithsonian Institution by Dr. 

 Sartorius corresponds with the description in the Erpetologie Generale in 

 nearly every respect. The color is, however, a very deep slate above, so that 

 the transverse spots are scarcely visible. The gastrosteges are much clouded 

 with slate, and the longitudinal markings are also indistinct. Chin and lower 

 labial plates tinged with bright yellow. There is no specimen of this species 

 in the Academy Museum. 



87. S. quinquelineata nobis. 3Iicrophis quinquelineatus, Hallow. Proc. 

 Acad. Nat. Sci. 1854, p. 97. 



Two specimens. Honduras. Dr. S. W. Woodhouse. 



This is the species figured in the Erp. Generale, plate 70, as Stenorhina F r e- 

 m i n V i 1 1 e i. In that figure the loreal plate is distinctly and correctly repre- 

 sented, though the description of that species and diagnosis of the genus would 

 lead one to infer its absence. Is it not possible that the specimen figured by 

 the learned herpetologists may belong to a different species from that which 

 they regard as typical of the Freminvillei? 



Rhinostoma* Fitz. Type R. n a s u u m . 



Neue Classification, 1826, p. 56. Dum. & Bibr. vii. p. 992. 



88. R. n a s u u m Wagl. 



One sp. Surinam. Dr. Bering 



89. R. Guntheri nobis. Head depressed, rather wider than the neck. 

 Posterior angle of the rostral plate a right-angle. Anterior frontals forming 

 a short suture with each other; posterior frontals forming no suture, their tips 

 only in contact, so that their posterior borders are diagonally continuous with 

 the posterior borders of the anterior frontals. Vertical plate presenting a 

 right angle anteriorly; its superciliary border shortest of all. Occipitals 

 shorter than vertical, each bounded by one large and five small temporals. 



*Gyalopion nobis. Form stout; tail one-eighth of total length Head slightly 

 distinct, large, depressed. Rostral plate acute ; its anterior border elevated ; its upper 

 surface concave. It is produced backwards, separating the prefontals, not reaching the 

 vertical. Frontals, two pair. Nasal confounded with the first labial, a groove from 

 the nostril to the suture of the second labial. No loreal, its place supplied by the post 

 frontal. One pre- two postoculars. Scales smooth ; anal and Bubcaudal scutellae divided. 

 Teeth small, of equal lengths. Pupil round. 



P. a n u m nobis. Prefrontals triangular, not larger than preoculars. Postoculars of 

 equal size. Anterior border of vertical not angulated. Occipitals as broad as long, 

 truncate posteriorly. Superior labials seven, eye over third and fourth. Inferior labials 

 seven, fourtli largest. Geneials one pair, very short. Scales in seventeen longitudinal 

 rows, nearly square. Gastroteges 130; one anal; urosteges 28. Total length 7 in. 

 61in. ; tail 11 hn. 



Coloration. Above brownish grey, crossed by thirty-one irregular transverse brown 

 bands. These are from one to three scales wide on the back, and extend to the gas- 

 troteges. Anteriorly ihey exhibit a tendency to divide into a dorsal and two lateral 

 series of spots. Eight transverse spots on the tail. First spot on the neck large, 

 produced medially to the occipitals. A brown band extends from one angle of the 

 mouth to the other across the occipitals, involving the tip of the vertical. Another 

 brown band commences upon the upper borders of the lower labial shields, passes 

 through the eye, and crosses the anterior parts of superciliaries and vertical, and 

 posterior parts of postfrontals and rostral. Dirty yellowish beneath, and upon the first 

 row of scales. One specimen (No. 4675.) in the National Museum, Washington, dis- 

 covered near Ft. Buchanan, Arizona, by Dr. Irwin. It is an extraordinary serpent, re- 

 sembling, at first sight, a diminutive Ileterodon. 



I860.] 




244 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Loreal acute posteriorly ; preoculars two, the inferior very small. Postoculars 

 three, nearly equal in size. Upper labials eight, fourth and fifth entering the 

 orbit ; last as small as the second. Inferior labials eight ; one pair of geneials. 

 Scales in nineteen rows. Gastroteges 182. One entire anal, 6*1 urosteges. 

 Total length 21 inches, 2 lines. Tail 5 inches. , 



The upper surface of the head and body are of a dark brown. The upper 

 labials, chin, belly, two inferior rows of scales and the tips of many of the 

 others, dirty white. 



One specimen brought from the interior of Venezuela by Capt. Jas. Wilsoa. 

 It is called by the natives " Coralilla." 



We have named this species in honor of Dr. Albert Giinther, the celebrated 

 Herpetologist of London, who has done so much toward effecting a natural 

 arrangement of the Colubridae. 



Cemophora nobis. Type C. coccinea. 



Form rather slender; tail one-seventh of total length. Head scarcely dis- 

 tinct, very convex, elongate, acute. Plates of the head broad, normal as to 

 number. Rostril very prominent, obtusely trihedral, produced slightly be- 

 tween the prefontals. Nasals two — sometimes united, — a loreal, one pre- two 

 postoculars. Scales smooth ; anal scutella entire, urosteges divided. Pupil 

 round. One or two posterior maxillary teelh longer than the others, smooth, 

 and not separated by an interspace, (syncranterian). 



The form of the rostral plate is the most prominent peculiarity which 

 separates this species from Simotes J). ^- B. 



90. C. coccinea nobis. Coluber coccineus Blumenb. in Licht. & Voigt. 

 Magaz. V. 1788, pi. 5. Heterodon coccineus Schl. Essai, ii. p. 102. Rhinostoma 

 coccinea Holbr. N. Am. Herp. 1842, p. 125, pi. 30. Baird et Girard, Catal. p. 118. 

 Simotes coccineus Dam. et Bibr. vii. p. 637. Giinther, Cat. Brit. Mus. p. 26. 

 Two sp. South Carolina. Dr. Holbrook. 



One sp. Georgia. Dr. Jones. 



One sp. South Carolina. Dr. Blanding. 



One sp. " Philada. Mus. in Ex. 



One sp. ? Dr. Wilson. 



Rhinocheilcs Bd. et Grd. Type R. Lecontei. 



Catal. Serp. Smiths. Inst. 1852, p. 120. 



In dentition this genus is isodont. The entire urosteges distinguish it from 

 Rhinechis. The general form is rather that of Cemophora. 



91. R. Lecontei Bd. et Grd. 1. c. 



One sp. Ft. Chadbourne, Texas. Smithsonian Institution. 



Simotes Dum. & Bibr. Type S. R u s s e 1 1 i i . 

 Erpetologie Generale, vii. p. 624, 1853. 



A. Form stout, calamarian ; anal shield entire. 



92. S. phsenochalinus nobis. This is a small serpent, and resembles 

 an Oligodon in form. The arrangement and number of cephalic plates are the 

 same as in the Russellii, except that the rostral plate is higher, and not 

 produced so far back upon the muzzle, and that the vertical is not so broad, 

 and with lateral borders less convergent posteriorly. Superior labials seven, 

 the third and fourth entering the orbit; inferior labials eight. Scales in 

 seventeen rows small, rounded. Gastroteges 172, an anal, urosteges 41 pairs. 

 Total length 7 inches 9 lines. Tail 1 inch. 



The ground color is a light brown, and is crossed above by short black 

 transverse bands, about fifteen in number, from the head to the end of the tail. 

 These bands are wider on the back, and taper on the flanks. A transverse 

 black band crosses the head from eye to eye on each side of the posterior 



[June, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 245 



suture of the postfrontals, and is continued beneath the eye on the suture of 

 the fourth and fifth labials. A longitudinal black band proceeds from the 

 transverse, passes through the middle of the vertical and along the suture of 

 the occipitals, then widens and bifurcates on the neck. A crescentic black 

 mark begins near the exterior border of the occipital plate, and extends a 

 little beyond the commissure of the mouth, crossing the seventh upper labial. 

 One sp. Manilla. Dr. Barnwell. 



One sp. Philippine Islands. Mr. Cuming, in ex. 



The second of these specimens has, alternating with the cross bands, a 

 transverse series of four separate spots; two dorsal, rounded, and one on each 

 side, narrosv. 



93. S. aphanospilus nobis. — In this species the head and investing plates 

 are shorter and broader than those of the last species ; the sides of the vertical 

 shields are more convergent posteriorly. As in other Simotes there are one 

 pre- and two postoculars. Loreal a little longer than high ; upper labials seven, 

 third and fourth entering the orbit ; inferior labials eight, the posterior one 

 very small. Scales large, obtuse, imbricate, in seventeen rows. Geneials two 

 pair, the posterior half the length of the anterior. Gastrosteges 173, anal one, 

 uresteges 37 pairs. Length of body and tail 23 in. 5 1. ; tail alone 3 in. 4 1. 



The color of the upper surface of this serpent is a dull olive brown. From 

 the neck to the base of the tail we count thirteen nearly equidistant scutcheon- 

 shaped figures, brown bordered with black. These extend a short distance on 

 the flanks, and are sometimes confluent with another series of smaller, similar 

 figures on each side. In the middle of the interval between each dorsal figure 

 is a small black spot. On the head the arrangement of markings is similar to 

 that of the last species. They are, however, only indicated by narrow black 

 borders enclosing the ground color. Lips and beneath dirty yellowish. 

 One specimen. Philippines. Mr. Cuming, in ex. 



The two species preceding are nearly allied to the S. purpurascens 

 Gtkr., but comparison with the figures of Schlegel and Dum. et Bibr. at once 

 reveals the differences in the markings of the head. The number of labials is 

 also different. 



B. Form slender ; anal divided. 



94. S. R u s s e 1 1 i Bum. Sf Bibr. Erp. Gen. vii. p. 628. Russell, Ind. Serp. i. 

 pi. 35. 



One spec. ? ? 



CoRONELLA Laureuti. Type C. Austriaca. 



Specimen Synopsis Reptilium 1768, p. 84. Zacholus Wagler, Natur. Syst. 

 1830, p. 190. 



95. C. Au s t ri a c a Laurenti. Zacholus Austriacus Wagler. Coronella Icevis 

 Schlegel, Essai 1837, ii. 65. 



Fourteen spec. Italy. Dr. Wilson (Bp. Coll.) 



Five " Sicily. " " 



Two " Europe Gard. Plants (in ex.) 



96. C. G i r n d i c a Bum. Sf Bibr. Coluber Girondicus Daudin, 1S04. Col. 

 iJjccwZt Metaxa, Monograf. p. 40, 1823. Bp. Fauna Italica. 



Ten spec. Italy. Dr. Wilson (Bp. Coll.) 



Macroprotodon Guichenot. Type M. c u c u 1 1 a t u s. 

 Expedition d'Algerie, Rept. p. 22, No. 2. 



97. M. c u c u 1 1 a t u s nobis. Coluber cucullatus Is. Geoff. St. Hilaire, 1827. 

 Macroprotodon maurilanieus Guichen. loc. cit. 1846. Lycognathus cucullatus Dum. 

 & Bibr. 1853. Coronella cucullata Gthr. 1858. ? Zacholus bitorquatus Bonap. 



I860.] 




246 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



The long anterior and isolated grooved posterior maxillary teeth appear to 

 us to separate this species from Coronella. 



One spec. Algiers. Gard. Plants, (in ex.) 



Two '• " Dr. Wilson, (Bp. Coll.) 



PsASiMOPHTLAX Fltz. Type p. rhombeatus. 

 Systema Reptilium 1843, p. 26. Trimerorhinus Smith, Zool. S. Africa, p.? 1849_ 



93. P. rhombeatus Fitz. Coluber rhombeatus Linn. Coronella rhomheata 

 Boie, Schlegel. Coelopeltis rhombeata Wagl. Trimerorhinus rhombeatus Smith. 

 Dipsas rhombeata D. &. B. 

 One spec. Cape of Good Hope. Gard. Plants, (in ex.) 



Tarbophis Fleischmann, Type T. v i v ax. 



Dalraat. Nov. Serp. Genera p. 18, 1831. Trigonophis Eichwald, 1831. Ailu- 

 rophis "Fitz.'' Bp. 1832. 



99. T. vivax Dum. & Bibr. Coluber vivax Fitz., 1826. Tarbophis fallax 

 Fleisch. 1831. Trigonophis Iberus Eich. 1831. Dipsas fallax Schleg. Essai ii. 

 295. Tachymenis vivax Gthr. 1858. Ailurophis vivax Bp. Fauno Italica. 



One spec. Italy. Dr. Wilson. 



Hypsiglesa nobis. Type H. ochrorhynchus. 



Dentition diacranterian ; i. e. a long, smooth, posterior superior maxillary 

 tooth, separated from the anterior by an edentulous space. Pupil elliptic, 

 erect, body cylindrical. Head distinct, broad posteriorly, shortly conic ante- 

 riorly, much depressed. Cephalic shields normal. Two nasals, nostril be- 

 tween ; one loreal ; two pre-and two postoculars. Scales smooth. Gastros- 

 teges not angulated. Anal and subcaudal scutellae divided. Tail less than 

 one fourth the total length. 



This curious genus has points of resemblance to Sibon Fitz., Hemidipsas 

 Gthr., Tachymenis Wiegm.; while the general appearance is not unlike that of 

 Coronella Laur. A perusal of the above diagnosis, cannot fail to convince the 

 herpetologist that it possesses characters strongly distinguishing it from all, 

 uniting as it does, in its general aspect, peculiarities of certain tropical and 

 northern forms. 



100. H. ochrorhynchus nobis. — Muzzle shortly conic ; rostral plate 

 prominent, encroaching a little on the pre-frontals. Nasal plates indistinctly 

 separated, equal, their upper and lower borders parallel. Loreal longer than 

 high. Lower preocular small, bounded anteriorly by the third upper labial. 

 Eight upper labials, fourth and fifth entering the orbit; sixth and seventh very 

 large. Vertical plate twice as long as broad ; lateral borders slightly con- 

 vergent. Superciliaries narrow ; occipitals as long or longer than vertical, 

 rounded posteriorly. Inferior labials eleven, sixth largest. Geneials two pair, 

 the posterior acute. Scales in twenty-one rows. Gastrosteges 168, urosteges 

 48 pair. Total length, 12 in. 4 lines, tail 2 in. 3 lines. 



Coloration. The upper surface light grey, with a series of large brown spots, 

 separated by intervals of one scale wide. These spots are about forty-eight in 

 number, upon the body; they extend transversely from the seventh to the 

 fifteenth rows of scales, and are three or four scales in length. On the poste- 

 rior part of the body they sometimes divide longitudinally, their moieties 

 alternating or becoming confluent into a zig-zag band. 



Alternating with these on each side, is a series of small spots formed by the 

 brown borders of scales of the fifth and sixth rows. Another series of small 

 spots opposite to the dorsal row, is formed by the shading of the adjacent bor- 

 ders of the fourth and fifth rows with the same color. Many of the scales of 



[June, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 247 



the second row are also tipped with brown. There is a large brown spot on 

 each side of the neck, sometimes confluent with an elongate central one, which 

 extends to the occipital plates. A brown stripe passes from the eje to the neck 

 spot, entirely covering the last upper labial. Top of the head brownish grey, 

 indistinctly spotted with pale brown. Labial plate paler ; frontals and rostral 

 ochreous. Beneath yellowish-white, immaculate. 



One specimen in the Academy, and numerous others in the National 

 Museum, Washington, received from Mr. John Xantus, from Cape St. Lucas, 

 California. 



101. H. chlorophaea nobis. — Number of labials and rows of scales 

 the same as in the last species. The scales of the body are, however, more 

 elongate, and partly on this account are arranged in rows more oblique in an 

 antero-posterior direction. The vertical plate is a little broader, and the head 

 is narrower in proportion to its length. The body is rather more slender. 



The color is a greenish ash, much darker than in the preceding species. The 

 dorsal spots, instead of being brown, are black, and separated by intervals of 

 two scales in width. They are much smaller, occupying only the space from 

 the ninth to the thirteenth longitudinal rows, and are one scale and a half 

 long. They frequently divide and alternate, and their number on the body 

 amounts to from fifty-eight to sixty-six. Two rows of smaller alternating spots 

 appear on the sides, one upon the sixth and seventh rows of scales, the other 

 on the fourth. The distribution of colors on the head and neck is much as in 

 the last species, except that the neck spots are a little longer. The brown is, 

 however, replaced by black, and the ochreous by olivaceous. The crown and 

 muzzle are thickly punctulated with black. Beneath pale olivaceous. Gas- 

 trosteges 167, urosteges 55. Total length, 15 in. 6 1., of tail 2 in. 3 1. 



Two specimens from the National Museum, there received with others 

 from Fort Buchanan, Arizona, where they were collected by Mr. Irwin. 



Tachymenis Wiegmann. Type T. Peruviana. 

 Nova Acta, Acad. Caes. Leopold. Carol, xvii. 1834, p. 251. 



102. T. C h i 1 e n s i 3 Girard^ U. S. Naval and Astronomical Exp. 1855, ii. 

 p. 213, Giinther, Cat. Brit. Mus. 1858, p. 34, Coronella Chilensis Schlegel. 

 Guichenot, Hist. Chili, ii. p. 79. Dipsas Chilensis Dum. & Bibr. vii. p. 1159. 



Var. near the third of Dum. & Bibr. 



Belly as in the ordinary variety, but the upper surface of the body of a light 

 rufous brown, more deeply shaded on the fourth and ninth rows of scales. 

 One specimen. Quinquina Id. Dr. Ruschenberger. 



Variety fourth, nobis. 



Coloration of the upper surface as usual, but upon each gastrostege there 

 is a single central, oblong, spot. These form a medial, unbroken, black band, 

 from near the chin to the anus. 

 One specimen. Talcahuano, Chili. Dr. Ruschenberger 



103. T. hypoconia nobis. — The head of our single specimen is muti- 

 lated, hence a detailed description of the plating cannot be given. The shields 

 :!eem, however, to diflFer but little from those of the preceding species ; the pre- 

 frontals are relatively smaller, and the superciliaries larger. There are eight 

 superior labial shields, the eye resting on the fourth and fifth ; the sixth and 

 seventh are disproportionately large. Nine inferior labials. Scales large, in 

 nineteen rows, the exposed part of those of the first row higher than long. 

 Body stout ; gastrosteges 140, one divided anal ; urosteges 52, relatively more 

 numerous than in T. C h i 1 e n s i s . 



Coloration. — The upper surface of the head, body and tail, is of a •wood 

 brown, many of the scales black at their bases. The first, second, third and 

 I860.] 




248 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



fourth rows of scales are densely punctulated with black, thus forming an in- 

 distinct band upon each side. The punctulations are more numerous upon the 

 fourth row, hence the band is better defined upon its dorsal margin. A pair 

 of dark bands commence upon the occipital plates, and extend a short dis- 

 tance upon the back, enclosing a light vitta. The dark bands send off upon 

 each side two branches, one to the middle of the superciliary plate, and one 

 to the superior suture of the upper postocular. From the inferior su- 

 ture of the same plate, a deep brown vitta extends to the angle of the 

 of the mouth ; this continued in front of the orbit as far as the nostril. The 

 superior labial shields are paler than the crown, are punctulated, and have 

 upon their postero-superior angle a triangular brown mark. Belly yellowish- 

 grey, densely punctulated with black, (whence the name.) On each side, the 

 gastrosteges are crossed near their extremities by a narrow black band, which 

 is continuous from the throat to the end of the tail. Anteriorly the punctu- 

 lations arrange themselves in two series of indistinct V-shaped marks within the 

 bands but they are quite ill defined, and in some specimens will probably be 

 absent. 

 Oae specimen. Buenos Ayres. Dr. A. Kennedy. 



CoNioPHANES Hallowell, MSS. Type C. fissidens.* 



This genus consists of coronelliform serpents with grooved teeth, of rather a 

 slender habit, having a distinct, depressed head, conic muzzle, one preocular 

 and a divided anal plate. Perhaps the Coronella bipunctata of Giinther 

 belongs to it. 



It differs from Dromicus in the grooved maxillary tooth, and the less lanceo- 

 late head. Philodryas has a much more elongate body and tail. A peculiarity 

 in the coloration of the species consists in the numerous punctulations of the 

 upper and under surface, whence probably the name (jc^vm pulverulentus.) 



104. C. punctigularis nobis. — Scales thin, lanceolate, in twenty-one 

 longitudinal rows. Head broad posteriorly, muzzle rather shortly conic. Pre- 

 frontals equal iu size to the fourth superior labial ; post-nasal larger than pre- 

 nasal ; loreal as high as long ; preocular not reaching the vertical. Vertical 

 elongate, its sides parallel ; occipitals moderate, each bounded by two large, 

 and two small temporals. Postoculars two ; superior labials eight ; eye over 

 the fourth and fifth. Symphyseal unusually broad; inferior labials nine. 

 Gastrosteges 121, one divided anal, urosteges 44, (tail mutilated.) Total 

 length 14 in. 6 1. Tail 3 in. 4 1. (was probably nearly two inches longer. 



Coloration. — Above, dark chestnut-brown, shaded with grey on the top of the 

 head. On each side of the neck, three scales behind the terminal superior 

 labial, a whitish line commences. These widen, assume a pale ferruginous 

 hue, and extend to the tip of the tail. They cover the sixth, seventh and 

 half of the fifth and eighth rows of scales on each side, and enclose a brown 

 dorsal band five scales wide. Upon the neck the brown of the sides is very 

 deep, and extends forward as a band to the orbit. It is bordered beneath 

 with white. Lips and throat yellowish-white, densely punctulated with 

 brown. Gastrosteges also yellowish-white, punctulated irregularly at their 

 tips. 

 One specimen. Honduras. Mr. J, S. Hawkins & Dr. J. L. Le Conte. 



C. fissidens Hallow, differs from th.e present species in several points. 

 The body is more elongate, there being 140 gastrosteges instead of 121. The 

 head is more depressed, and the muzzle more prominent, since the prefrontal 

 plates are in tlie plane of the occipitals. This form, together with the dark 



* Coronella fissidens Gthr. Cat. Brit. Mus. p. 36. 



[June, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 249 



color, and the narrow light band on the upper borders of the labials, is suggest- 

 ive of certain genera of venomous snakes, as H\T)nale. The lateral borders 

 of the vertical plate in fissidens are not so long nor so nearly parallel as 

 in punctigularis. The whole head is relatively narrower. The colors 

 of the former are deeper, the longitudinal bands being very indistinct. The 

 throat is not so thickly punctulated.* 



Tjeniophis Girard. Type T. tantillus. 

 U. S. Astronomical Expedition, ii. p. 215. 1855. 



105. T. vermiculaticeps rwbis. Size small; form slender; tail one- 

 third the total length. Head distinct, elongate ovoid ; the muzzle short and 

 the eye large and far forward. The last superior maxillary tooth is longer 

 than those preceding it, and smooth. As in the other species of the genus, 

 there are two postoculars, one preocular, and a divided postabdominal scu- 

 tella. Scales in seventeen longitudinal rows. Frontal plates small, super- 

 ciliaries and vertical elongate, the latter with its anterior border nearly straight, 

 the lateral slightly convergent. Nostril principally in the prenasal ; postnasal 

 higher. Loreal as high as long ; preocular narrow and high, not reaching the 

 vertical. Superior postocular twice as long as the inferior. Superior labials 

 eight, fourth and fifth enteringthe orbit. Inferior labials ten. Geneials two 

 pair, the posterior one-third longer than the anterior, divaricating. Gastros- 

 teges 117, one anal, urosteges 79. Total length of the largest specimen 13 in. 

 8 lin. Tail 4 in. 7 lin. 



Coloration. The ground color of the upper surface of the body is a rich yel- 

 lowish brown — where the epidermis is lost, of a brownish straw color. A pair 

 of deep brown bands begin, one at the externo-posterior angle of each super- 

 ciliary shield, and converge upon the neck. There each narrows to a width 

 of one scale, and enclosing a vitta of the ground color one scale in width, ex- 

 tends to the origin of the tail. Here they unite, and extend to the extremity 

 of that member as a median band. A second pair of brown bands commences 

 one at each nostril. It passes through the eye to beyond the angle of the 

 mouth, where its inferior border becomes ill defined, and continues so through- 

 out its whole length. The upper border is clearly defined to the end of the 

 tail. The medial light dorsal vitta bifurcates on the neck, and extends as far 

 as the superciliary plates. The intermediate space is irregularly vermiculated 

 with delicate marks of the same color. Upper and lower labials whitish, nar- 



*The following is the description of a third species of this genus, a single specimen of 

 which is in possession of ihe National Museum, Washington. It was discovered by Sr. 

 R. M. De Oca in the vicinity of Jalapa, Mexico. 



C. proterops nobia. — Size rather small. Scales in nineteen longitudinal rows, thin, 

 elongate, obtuse. Head scarcely distinct, short profile of muzzle not elevated. Anterior 

 plates of the head small ; loreal a little longer than high. One pre- two postoculars. 

 Superior labials seven, third and fourth entering the orbit. Vertical plate elongate, late- 

 ral borders convergent, posterior angle acute. Occipitals long. Inferior labials nine ; 

 geneials two pairs, nearly equal. Gastrosteges 130, anal one, divided, urosteges ? (tail 

 badly mutilated.) Head and body 9 in. 7 lin. in length. The stump of the tail appears 

 tetragonal in section. 



Coloration. Above light brown, every scale densely punctulated with darker, especially 

 near the margins. From the first to the fourth row of scales this is deeper, giving the 

 sides a darker shade. The vertebral row of scales, from the occipitals to the end of the 

 tail is also darker. Top of the head densely and obscurely vermiculated and punctulated. 

 The dark shade on the fourth row of scales becomes a band anteriorly, and is bordered 

 above and below with white on the neck. The lower white border is continued to the 

 eye, and is bordered above on the labials with black. The upper white border is discon- 

 tinued on the neck, but reappears as a spot, three scales back of the occipitals. Inferior 

 half of rostral, upper and lower labials, chin, throat and belly, light brownish yellow, 

 densely punctulated with brown. Each labial wiih a darker spot in the centre. Fewer 

 punctulations on the urosteges. 



I860.] 16 




250 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



rowly edged with brown. Chin and belly yellowish white, each gastrostege 

 with a deep brown dot at each end near the posterior border. 



This very elegant species was discovered in Veragua, New Grenada, by Mr. 

 R. W. Mitchell, who presented two specimens to the Academy. We also 

 possess a third specimen, native country unknown. It is nearly allied to 

 T. tantillus Girard, 1. c, but in that the vertical plate is narrower, the 

 sides subconcave, and in contact anteriorly with the preocular. The colora- 

 tion is also quite different. 



DiADOPHis Baird & Girard. Type D. punctatus. 

 Catalogue North Amer. Rept. in Smiths. Inst. 1852, p. 112. Spiletes (i. e. 

 Spilotes) ' ' Wagler. ' ' Swainson, not Wagler. 



106. D. decoratus nobis. Coronella decorata Gthr. Cat. Brit. Mus. 

 p. 35. 



One of our specimens has two preocular plates, another three. In neither 

 do we find the upper maxillary teeth materially longer behind. Nevertheless, 

 our placing this serpent in Diadophis is altogether provisional ; in the unusual 

 It^ngth of tail, as well as in distribution of colors, it differs from this genus. 

 We will not give a detailed description at present, as the color of our speci- 

 mens has been altered by the loss of the epidermis. The four bright yellow 

 spots on the occiput and nape render this a very distinct as well as beautiful 

 species. 



One spec. Veragua, N. Grenada. Mr. R. W. Mitchell. 



One •• ? ? ? 



107. D. occipitalis nobis. Ablabes occipitalis Giinther, Cat. Brit. Mus. 

 p. 29. 



We have strong doubts of the validity of this species. Seven upper labial 

 shields are occasionally found in the punctatus, and the nuchal interrup- 

 tion of the yellow collar occurs in the pulchellus B. Sj- G. We have, how- 

 ever, never seen a Diadophis with eight upper labials and an interrupted collar. 



We have two specimens corresponding with the occipitalis Gthr., one 

 the locality unknown, the other believed to have been obtained in central 

 Kansas. Presented by Mr. Henry Yarrow. 



108. D. punctatus Bd. ^ Gird. Coluber punctatus Linn., Holbrook, etc. 

 Homalosoma punctatitm Wagl. Spiletes pxinctatus Swains. Calamaria punctata 

 Schleg. Ablabes punctatus Dnm., Bibr., Giinther, Hallowell. 



Var . p a 1 1 i d u s nobis. In the number of rows of scales and labial plates and 

 collar, similar to punctatus ; but the color is a light olive brown, shaded 

 with bluish towards the gastrosteges, which it borders. There is no central 

 series of spots on the belly. 

 One spec. California. Dr. Heermann. 



Var. stictogenys nobis. This may possibly be specifically distinct from 

 the punctatus, but it is more probable that in a large suite of specimens 



* This specimen has but seven upper labials, eye resting on third and fourth, 

 t The vertical shield is as broad as long in this specimen. 



[June, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 251 



the distinctions would not be borne out. The number of rows of scales is fif- 

 teen ; the superior labials are seven, eye resting on third and fourth, as is 

 sometimes the case in punctatus. Color above light brownish olive, a 

 broad yellow collar, bordered with black as in punctatus. Each gastros- 

 tege has a brown dot at its extremity, and the central part of the margin the 

 same color, forming a series of transversely elongated spots. Fifth and sixth 

 upper labials each with a brown dot. Symphyseal and lower labials with a 

 brown dot in the centre of each, two on each anterior geneial, one at the pos- 

 terior end of postgeneials and of all the tliroat scales. 

 One specimen, locality and donor unknown. 



109. D. dysope s nobis. Scales in 15 rows ; superior labials eight, eye 

 resting on the fourth and fifth ; inferior labials eight. Color above olivaceous 

 slate blue, beneath light yellowish brown, with three longitudinal rows of 

 spots. A very narrow yellow collar involving a part only of each scale that 

 it crosses, and bordered with blackish. Upper borders of superior labials 

 (not temporals) black. It is in the form of the head that it it differs from the 

 punctatus most strikingly. The muzzle is very short, rounded and de- 

 pressed ; hence the rostral, frontrals and anterior labials are very small. The 

 loreal is a little smaller than the upper postocular. The vertical is small, the 

 lateral borders convergent. Superciliaries short and broad, occipitals long, 

 bordered by five temporal plates on each side. Breadth of the head at the 

 angle of the mouth but little less than the length anterior to the same point. 



One specimen, locality and donor unknown. 



Size equal to that of an adult punctatus. Though small, this serpent has 

 a malignant expression, hence the name. 



CoNTiA Bd. & Grd. Type C. m i t i s . 



Catalogue Rept. Smiths. Inst. Serpents, p. 110, 1862. 



This genus is allied to Tseniophis Girard, but is of a stouter and more de- 

 pressed form, and has but one nasal plate. The teeth are minute and equal. 



110. C. m i ti s Bd. Sf Grd. 1. c. 



One specimen, Petaluma, Cal. Smiths. Institution. 



111. C. episcopa nobix. Lamprosoma episcopum Kennicott, U. S. and 

 Mex. Bound. Survey, ii. pt. ii. p. 22, 1859, pl.xxi. fig. 1 . 



It is now the opinion of Mr. Kennicott that this small serpent does not be- 

 long to the Lamprosoma of Hallowell. We concur with him in this, and be- 

 lieve that it cannot be generically distinguished from the species just preced- 

 ing. It resembles certain Calamarian genera, but were its size quadrupled the 

 similarity would probably disappear. 



One sp. Rio Seco, Texas, Smiths. Inst. 



LroPHis Wagler. Type L. r e g i n a e . 



Natur. Sj'st. Amphib. p. 187, 1830. Dum. etBibr. vii. 697, 1854. Giinther, 

 Cat. Colubr. Brit. Mus. 42, 1858. Dromicus (Bibron) Dum. Bibr. vii. 646 et 

 Gthr. 1. c. 126, pars. Lygophis (Fitz.) Tschudi pars. 



We have included in this genus the Dromicus melanonotus and D. 

 1 i n e a t u s of modern authors. It appears to us impossible to establish any 

 generic distinction between these species and the L. reginae, while their 

 comparatively short tails will separate them from the slender Dromicus f u g i - 

 t i v u s and congeners. It is here that the coronelline form seems to pass 

 into the true colubrine. 



112. L. CO bell a Wufjl. Dum. et Bibr. Gthr. locis citatatis. 

 Seven specimens Surinam. Mr. C. Hering. 



Three " " Dr. Hering. 



One " " Dr. Colhoun. 



I860.] 




252 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Dr. Wilson. 

 Col. Abert. 

 Mr. Wood. 

 Dr. Colhoun. 

 Three of the young specimens have a pair of white dots on the occipital 

 plates, as in the Tropidonotes. The transverse, band-like disposition of the 

 small white C-like marks, apparent in specimens of this age, remains during 

 adult age in some, thus affording a transition to the 



Var. A. Gtlir. With distinct transverse light bands. 

 One sp. Para. Col. Abert. 



113. L. breviceps vohis. Head short, not very distinct from the body 

 Plates of the head similar to those of L. cobella except that the occipital 

 plates are shorter ; the vertical is broader, its lateral borders measuring less 

 than the anterior ; the rostral is broader ; and there are but seven superior 

 labials, the third and fourth entering the orbit. The sixth superior labial 

 widens upwards, and supports nearly the whole length of the temporal. In 

 L. cobella the upper margin of this plate is shorter than the lower. Two 

 postoculars, both in contact with the first temporal. Second temporal large, 

 one or two other small ones. One preocular ; loral small. Eight inferior 

 labials, fifth largest, anterior part in contact with posterior geneials (sixth and 

 seventh in cobella). Scales in seventeen rows. Gastrosteges 154, a 

 bifid anal, urosteges 54 pair. Total length 17 in. 5 lines. Tail 3 in. 2 lin. 



Color above, a deep brown without a trace of the small white marks of the 

 cobella, becoming darker posteriorly, and reaching to the gastrosteges. 

 It is crossed by very indistinct darker bauds, formed by a single dark scale in 

 every other longitudinal row. These bands are two or three scales apart, and 

 unite on the flanks, into the black transverse bands of the beUy, which are 

 in-egular and broad, almost excluding the yellow ground in some places. 

 One spec. Surinam. Dr. Hering. 



Obs. — Comparison with our specimens of L. cobella has induced us to 

 consider this distinct on account of: First, the comparative smallness of the 

 head ; second, the shortness of the head shields ; third, the less number of 

 labials ; fourth, the form of the sixth superior labial ; lastly, the color ; which, 

 however, is of but little importance considered alone. It recalls the genus 

 Helicops. 



114. L. Merremii Dum. and B'lhr. L. miliaris, poecilogyrus et doliatus 

 Wagler. Coluber Merremii, poecilogyrus et doliatus Neuwied, Beitr. und Abbild. 

 Bras. Lief. 8. 



Var. A. Gthr. Cat. Brit. Mus. 44. 

 Three spec. S. America. ? 



Var. poecilogyrus Neuw. 1. c. 

 One sp. S. America. Capt. J. Jameson. 



Our specimen is evidently an adult. 



Var. s ublineatus nobis. Olive brown, irregularly varied with black, 

 which forms posteriorly an irregular band on each side, as in L. r e g i n a e , 

 with a bright one above it. 

 One spec, (half grown) Bueno's Ayres. Mr. Kennedy. 



Young, Col. doliatus Neuw. 1. c. 

 One spec. " " 



One spec. Brazil. Garden of Plants. 



115. L. reginae Wagl. h c. Coluber reginceliinn. Col. graphicus Sh&w. 

 Natrix regincB Merr. Coronella regince Schl. Essai, ii. p. 61. Lygophis regi- 

 voR Tschudi, Reise in Peru. 



Two sp. Surinam. Dr. Hering. 



One sp. Para. Col. Abert. 



[June, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 253 



Var. without temporal spot. 

 One sp. Para. Col. Abert. 



Var. witliout temporal spot or tail streak. 

 One sp. Buenos Ayres. Mr. Kennedy. 



Young, muzzle short, neck with transverse blotches. 

 One sp. Surinam. Dr. Colhoun. 



One sp. Panama. Dr. Ruschenberger. 



116. L. conirostris Gthr. Cat. Brit. Mus. p. 46. 

 The longitudinal dorsal bands are indistinct anteriorly. 



One sp. ? Dr. Wilson. 



One sp. Buenos Ayres. Mr. Kennedy. 



117. L. melanonotus nobis. Coluber melanotus Shaw, Zool. p. 534, 1802. 

 Coronella melanotus Boie, Isis, 1827, 532, and C bilineata ditto, p. 525. ? Col. 

 vaninus Bonnat. Col. vittatus Hall. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. ii. 242, 1845. Lio- 

 phis vittatus Cope, 1. c. 1859, p. 297. 



Ten sp. Near Caraccas. Dr. S. Ashmead. 



One sp. West Indies. Mr. Engstrom. 



118. L. lineatus nobis. Coluber lineatus Linn. Coronella lineata Boie. 

 Lygophis lineatus Fitz. Herpetodryas lineatus Schl. Ess. ii. 191. Dromicus 

 lineatus D. & B. vii. p. 655. Gthr. Cat. Brit. Mus. 134. 



Two sp. Surinam. Dr. Hering. 



Two sp. " Dr. Calhoun. 



Pliocebcus nobis. Type P. elapoides. 



Body cylindrical ; head scarcely distinct ; tail two-fifths of the total length. 

 Cephalic plates normal : two pre-, two postoculars, one loreal, two nasals. 

 Anal scute bifid. Scales smooth. Dentition as in Lampropeltis ; i. e. the 

 posterior superior maxillaries not isolated, longer, much recurved and smooth. 



The great length of the tail separates this genus from Lampropeltis and 

 Erythrolamprus : it unites the dentition of the former with the preanal scute 

 of the latter. Coronella and Phimothyra no6«s have comparatively short tails. In 

 Coniophanes the head is more distinct, the body more slender and not so 

 firmly cylindrical. 



119. P. elapoides nobis. 



Rostral plated just visible from above : prefontals one third the size of the 

 postfrontals. Length and breadth of the vertical plate equal to the suture of 

 the occipitals. The latter are oval, and rounded behind. Five marginal 

 temporals on each side. Upper preocular large, not reaching the vertical ; 

 inferior one very small, partially between the third and fourth superior labials. 

 Height and length of loreal equal. Eight superior labials, fourth and fifth enter- 

 ing the orbit. Inferior labials eight, the last three times as long as the seventh, 

 sixth largest ; these three plates border within a large shield which diverges 

 from the outer posterior extremity of the posterior geneial. Two equal pairs 

 of elongated geneials. Scales in seventeen longitudinal rows. Gastrosteges 

 131 ; urosteges 89 pair. Total length of adult, 19 in. 9 1., tail 7 in. 6 1. 



Coloration. — The ground color is brilliant red, which encircles the body 

 above and below in bands of from four to six scales in width. These are 

 separated by triads of black rings including yellow intervals, — ten or eleven 

 on the body, one at the anus, and six or seven on the tail. The outer ring 

 of each triad is one and a half scales wide, and is not continued on the belly ; 

 the yellow interval is of the same width, and the central black ring is three 

 and a half or four scales wide. The first triad is upon the head and neck ; 

 the central black ring is seven or eight scales wide and does not extend upon 

 the neck, but involves the ends of the occipitals and the last upper labial. The 

 anterior yellow ring crosses the occipitals, and involves one and a half tempo- 

 1860.] 




254 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



rals, the sixth, seventh and half the eight upper labials. All the head anterior 

 to this is lustrous black, except a narrow oral border of yellow. Chin 

 immaculate. Many of the scales of the body are tipped with brown, many 

 with black. 



This beautiful species resembles in the distribution of its colors certain 

 Elapses — particularly decoratus and Dumerilii. It is a beautiful 

 example of analogy of coloring. We have four specimens, one adult, one half 

 grown, and two young, which were obtained through the liberality of John 

 Cassin, Esq., from Sr. K. M. De Oca who collected them near Jalapa, Mexico. 



Lampkopeltis Fitzinger. Type L. S a y i . 



Systema Reptilium, 1843, p. 25, et Sphenophis es-d. loc. OpJiiboIusBsLird and 

 Oirard, Catal. Serp. Smiths. Inst. 1852, p. 82. Coluber, Pseudoerijx, Coronella et 

 Ablabes sp. auctorum. 



This group was first defined, and its species enumerated by Profs. Baird and 

 Girard, in their "Catalogue." In structural peculiarities it fulfils all the 

 requisites of a strictly natural group. It represents in America the Coronella 

 of the Old World, from which it differs in possessing an undivided postab- 

 dominal scutella, and a peculiar form of posterior upper maxillary teeth. 

 These are closely set, stout, much compressed and trenchant, with their 

 anterior borders rather abruptly curved backwards. It also approaches 

 Erythrolamprus, which may be distinguished by the grooved superior maxilla- 

 ries, and divided postabdominal scutella. In geographical range it extends from 

 Maine (L. triangula)to Panama (L. micropholis.) 



In the Neue Classification der Reptilien of Fitzinger, (1826) p. 55, we find 

 that the seventh genus of the nineteenth family of that author, Colubroidea, 

 is Pseudoeryx Fitz. There are seven species enumerated, and the Coluber 

 doliatus of Linne is the first. Where there is no possibility of ascertaining 

 what species an author assigns as the type of his genus, it is the practice of 

 naturalists to regard as such that which stands first in his enumeration. 

 Adopting; that rule in the present instance, we should have to employ Pseu- 

 doeryx in place of Lampropeltis of later date — a substitution by no means to 

 be desired. Fortunately, however, we believe that Fitzinger did indicate with 

 sufiicient clearness what type of form he intended to characterize. On page 

 29 of the same work he thus characterizes Pseudoeryx : " Abdomen scutatum. 

 Cauda non compressa. OcuU verticale>. Rostrum rotundatum." Thisdignosis 

 at once shows that he considered the third* species on the list — P. Daudinii 

 (Dimades p 1 i c a t i 1 i s Gratj, ) — as the true representative of the genus ; and for 

 it, the name Pseudoeryx is not inappropriate. This supposition is confirmed 

 by the fact that in his Systema Reptilium, published in 1843, he5,retain3 the 

 genus, and distinctly assigns P. plicatilis as the type. 



120. L. Sayi nobis. Herpetodryas getulus Schlegel, Essai, ii. p. 198, 1837, 

 (not Col. getulus Linn). Lampropeltis getulus Fitz. 1. c. Coluber Sayi 

 Dekay, New York Fauna, Reptiles, 41, 1842. 



Coronella Sayi Holbr. N. Amer. Herp. iii. p. 99, 1842. Dum. Bibr. vii. p. 

 G19, 1853. Giinther Cat. Brit. Mus. p. 41, 1858. Ophibolus Sayi Bd. & Grd. 

 Catal. p. 71, 1852. 

 Two spec. 



* The diagnosis is equally applicable to the second species P. pyrrhogrammus, 

 if that be the Col. ery thro gram musofDaudin. The fifth species is P. schistosus, 

 a la homalopsides. 



[June, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 255 



121. L. splendida nobis. Ophibolus splendidus Bd. & Girard. Catal. p. 83, 

 1852. Mex. Boundary Survey, Vol. ii. pt. ii. pi. 14. 



One sp. Ft. Buchanan, Arizona, Smithsonian Institution. 



122. L. g etui a nobis. Coluber (jetulus Linn., Harlan, Peale, Giinther, 1. c. 

 p. 249. Pseudoelaps (jetulus Fitz., Neue Class. 1826, p. 56 (not the type.) 

 Coronella qetula Holbr. Herp. iii. 75. 1842, Dum. Bibr. vii. p. 616. Ophibohu 

 getulw, Bd. & Grd. 1. c. 72. 



One sp. S. Carolina, Dr. Holbrook. 



Three " New Jersey, Messrs. Benj. Badger and Peter Doyle. 



Two " (young) f ? 



The posterior supermaxillary teeth are but little longer than the anterior, 

 but are much stouter, and strongly compressed, as in other species of the 

 genus. The young may be distinguished from the young of P. S ay i by the 

 less number of the transverse bands. In g e t u 1 a they number from 30 to 

 45, in S ay 1 from 70 to 80, they are also more irregular in the latter. 



123. L. Boy Hi nobis. Ophibolus Boi/lii Bd. & Girard, Catal. p. 69, 1852. 

 Corondla balteata Hallow. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. 1853, p. 236, U. S. Pac. R. R. 

 Exped. Williamson's Expl. p. 14, pi. 5. 



A fine species, representing the g e t u 1 a in California. 



Tliree sp. California, Dr. Heermann. 



One '• Cape St. Lucas, Cal. Smithsonian Institution. 



In this specimen the vertical plate is more elongate than usual, and almost 

 trigonal in, outline. Many of the scales in the light transverse bands are 

 black at their bases. 



124. L. calligaster nobis. Coluber caUiga^ter " Say," Harlan, Med. and 

 Phys. Res. 122, 1835. Ablabes trianyulum var. calliga.>ter Hallowell, Proc 

 Acad. Nat. Sci. 1856, p. 244. Oplvbolus Evansii Kenn. Proc. Acad. 1859, p. 99^ 



This species is attributed to Say by Harlan and others, but after a most 

 careful examination of Long's Expedition to the Rocky Mountains, we have 

 failed to discover any allusion to it by that author. 



In the second volume of that work, p. 330, it is stated that such of the speci- 

 mens collected by the expedition as arrived in Philadelphia, were deposited 

 in the Philadelphia museum. It was from specimens of the present species in 

 that collection that Harlan drew up his description ; and the same are alluded 

 to by Dr. Holbrook, N. Amer. Herp. iii. p. 72, where he asserts their identity 

 with the Coluber eximi us . One of these, a stuffed skin, presented to the 

 Academy by Dr. Holbrook, and labelled by Dr. Hallowell "original specimen," 

 is now before us. "We can assert its identity with the Ophibolus Evansii of 

 Kennicott both from his description and from comparison with specimens 

 collected by Dr. Hammond in Kansas, and described by Hallowell 1. c. They 

 all have twenty-five rows of smooth scales. 



As to the Scotophis calligaster of Kennicott, l.,c., which belongs to a 

 genus different from the present, we believe it is a serpent distinct from the 

 Coluber calligaster of Harlan, although in the description of the former 

 author we read "there can be no hesitation in referring this species to the 

 Coluber calligaster of Say. ' ' In order to avoid the confusion which must 

 result from the possession of the same specific name by two serpents closely 

 resembling each other, and inhabiting the same section of country, we propose 

 for the species of Mr. Kennicott the appellation rhinome gas. 



Three sp. Kansas, Dr. Hammond. 



One " Missouri, Dr. Holbrok. 



125. L. rhombomaculata nobis. Coronella rhombomacul ata Holbrook, 

 N. Amer. Herp. iii. p. 103. 1842. Ophibolus rhombomaculatus Bd. & Grd. 1. c. 

 p. 73, 1852. 



One sp. Georgia, Dr. Holbrook. 



i860.] 




256 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



126. L. triangul a nobis. Le Triangle, Lacep. Hist. Serp. ii. 331, 1789, 

 Coluber triaiujulum Bole, Isis, 1827, p. 537. Col. eximius Dekay, New York 

 Fauna, pi. 12, fig. 25, 1842. Harlan, Storer, Holbrook, Griinther. Pseudoelaps Y. 

 Berthold. 1843. Ophibolus eximius Baird et Girard, Catalogue, p. 87, 1852. 

 Ablabes triaiu/ulum Dum. Bibr. Erp, Gen. vii. 315, 1853. Do. vars. clericus et 

 ex.'mius Hallowell, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. 1856, 245-6. 



The dentition of this species is not different from that characteristic of the 

 genus. The posterior upper maxillary teeth are longer and stronger than the 

 anterior, though not so much so as in L. Sayi. They are thickly set, so 

 compressed as to give them a great antero-posterior diameter, and have a 

 rather abrupt posterior curvature. This species cannot be arranged in the 

 same genus as Lycodonomorphus rufulus Fitz. (type of Ablabes Dum. & 

 Bibr. ) which, according to Schlegel and Smith, has the anterior maxillary teeth 

 a little longer than the posterior. The tail is one fourth or fifth of the total 

 length, while in all the species of Lampropeltis before us, that member is very 

 short, being never more than one seventh or one eighth of the total length. The 

 arrangement of this species with the Coluber guttatus is simply the result 

 of a mistaking of analogy for affinity. 



We have seen no second specimen which corresponds with the type of Profs. 

 Baird and Girard's Opliibolus clericus in the form of the head and position 

 and size of the eye. The specimen alluded to by Dr. Hallowell, 1. c, from New 

 Jersey, approximates remotely in these respects, though resembling it much 

 in the number and size of the dorsal spots. We incline to think that no cha- 

 racters of specific value can be deduced from these ; there are specimens inter- 

 mediate, as respects their size and number, between the highest in eximius 

 to the lowest in clericus, as defined in Baird and Girard's catalogue. And 

 there are indifferently one or two rows of spots on the sides. What the true 

 clericus is, more specimens alone can show. 



A. Spots as in "eximius." 



127. L. doliata nobit-. Coluber do! iaius Linn. Coronella doliata Holbr., 

 N. Am. Herp. iii. 105, 1842, pi. 24. Do. var. B, Giinther, Cat. Brit. Mus. p. 

 42. Ophibolus gentilis Bd. et Girard, Catal. p. 77. Marcy, Expl. Red Riv. p. 

 229 pi. 8. 



In the true Coronella doliata of the Eastern States the black rings form- 

 ing each pair, separate on the flanks, and become more or less confluent with 

 the adjacent ring of the next pair. The belly is also irregularly varied with 

 black. These peculiarities are well represented in Holbrook's figure. The 

 only constant difi'erence observable between eastern specimens and those from 

 Kansas, which agree closely* with the descriptions and figure of Oph. g e n- 



* Dr. HalJowc'll (Proc. Acad. 1856, p. 248) speaks of the difference between these speci- 

 mens and Baird & Girard's descriptions as considerable; to us ihey appear very slight. 



[June, 



il 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 257 



tills Bd. Sf Grd., is, that in the former the whole of the occipital shields are 

 includerl in the black of the crown, in the latter the tips of those shields are 

 crossed by the first yeUow band. We do not feel satisfied that this is of spe- 

 cific value. 

 One sp. Delaware. J. Green. 



" " " Mr. Drexler. 



; " " Washington, D. C. Dr. Burtt, U. S. N. 



(( U f If 



Four sp. Kansas. Dr. Hammond. 



One " Creek Boundary. Dr. S. W. Woodhouse. 



128. L. coccinea nobis. CoroneUa coccinea Schleg., Ess. ii. p. 57, 1837. 

 Sphenophis coccinea Fitz. Syst. Rept. 1843, p. 25. Ophibolus doJiatus Bd. et 

 Grd. 1. c. p. 76, 1852. Calamaria elapsoidea Holbr. N. Am. Herp. iii. p. 119, 

 1842, et Osceola elapsoidea Bd. & Grd. col. p. 133, (founded upon specimens 

 in which the loreal plate is abnormally absent.) 



This species is closely allied to the preceding, but may be distinguished by 

 the following peculiarities : The scales are in seventeen and nineteen rows 

 instead of twenty-one. The pairs of rings are fewer in number, (thirteen to 

 seventeen on the body,) and do not become confluent on the flanks. The 

 belly is not varied with black. From the anterior part of the occipital plates 

 to the muzzle the color is red, not white or yellow, and without black punc- 

 tulations. The muzzle is depressed, and the superciliary plates are very small, 

 giving the eyes a greater vertical field than in the d i o 1 a t a. The tips of the 

 occipitals are crossed by the first yellow ring. 



Many of these peculiarities are alluded to in the very accurate description 

 of Herr Schlegel, and to us it is perfectly plain that he had the present species 

 before him when writing it. The species is probably southern in its distribu- 

 tion. 



One sp. Mobile. Dr. Nott. 



" " Georgia. Maj.LeConte. 



129. L. annulata Kennicott, MSS. This, perhaps the most beautiful 

 species of the genus, resembles d o 1 i a t a, but the scales are very broad, and 

 the gastrosteges opposite to the red interval of the back are totally black. The 

 confluence of the black rings bordering the red does not take place on the 

 scales of the sides. For a more detailed description we refer to Kennicott's 

 forthcoming article. 



One sp. Texas. Capt. J. P. McCown. 



130. L. micropholis riobis. Scales in twenty-one longitudinal rows, 

 small, short and obtuse. Temporal region swollen, giving the depressed head 

 an appearance of distinctness. Plates of the head much as in doliata ; the 

 superciliaries and vertical are however larger, and the longitudinal line of 

 suture of the occipitals is only three -fourths the length of the latter plate. 

 The outer borders of the occipitals present two posterior divaricating angles, 

 and one on each side at the end of the first temporal. Upper labials seven, 

 third and fourth entering the orbit. Inferior labials nine, the seventh twice 

 as large as the last two together. Other particulars as in d o 1 i a t a, Gastros- 

 teges 219 ; one entire anal ; urosteges 43 pair. Total length 16 in. 11 1. ; tail 

 2 in. 



The color is a delicate red with a black tip upon each scale. The body is 

 completely encircled by ten pairs of jet black rings, which are anteriorly ten 

 scales apart, posteriorly seven. The space included in each pair is three or 

 four scales wide, and is red — not yellow — each scale having a black tip. The 

 tail is ornamented with two pair of black rings and a black tip. Eighteen 

 scales anterior to the first pair of rings, a black collar four scales wide encircles 

 the neck, scarcely touching the tips of the occipitals. The superciliary 



I860.] 




258 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



vertical, except its anterior border, and the occipitals within a line drawn 

 diagonally from the posterior termination of their suture to the lower post- 

 ocular, are black. A spot below the eye, one on the chin, and the posterior 

 borders of most of the other plates of the head are black. 

 One sp. Panama. Dr. John L. Le Conte. 



131. L. polyzona nobis. Size larger than the three preceding species, 

 body firmly cylindrical ; scales large, lanceolate, in twenty-one or twenty-three 

 rows. Head scarcely distinct. Greatest length of vertical plate a little greater 

 than breadth, which latter is a little greater than length of occipital suture. 

 Rostral large, full, postfrontals large, occipitals more elongate than in m i c r o- 

 pholis. One pre- two postoculars, lo'real longer than high; upper labials 

 seven, eye over the third and fourth, first in contact with loreal.* Inferior 

 labials nine. 



Gastrosteges (1) 214, (2) 215; an anal; urosteges (1) 49, (2)41. Total 

 length (1) 3 ft. 5 in., (2) 3 ft. 3 in. 6 1. ; tail (1) 6 in. (2) 5 in. 9 1. 



The ground color above and below is bright red ; the scales are largely 

 tipped with black. In specimen No. 1 there are twenty-seven pairs of black 

 rings on the body and tail. In a few instances the double rings become con- 

 fluent, forming an elongate annular spot. The gastrosteges are irregularly 

 spotted with black, and are almost entirely of that color where the rings cross 

 the belly. Specimen No. 2, which we take to be more typical, is ornamented 

 with twenty-eight pairs of rings only three or four scales apart, and perfect on 

 the belly. In both the pairs include a space but one and a half scales wide, of 

 a pale reddish above, more yellow below. A black collar involves the tips of 

 the occipitals and the last superior labial. In front of this a yellow band 

 crosses the occipitals. The rest of the head is black, a few scales with pale 

 borders, which hue predominates on the chin.f 

 (2) one sp. Quatupe, near Jalapa, Mex. Mr. Pease. 



(1) " Jalapa. Jno. Cassin, (De Oca coll.) 



"Var. A. Scales in the rings of the ground color without black tips. Nine- 

 teen pairs of rings on the body. 

 One sp. Mexico. Mr. Keating. 



The var. C of CoroneUa doliata, in Brit. Mus. Catalogue, p. 42, may belong 

 to this species. 



Erythrolampkus Boie. Type E. venustissimus, 

 Isis von Oken 1826, p. 981. 



* This may not be a constant character; in do] i ata it occurs occasionally, but not at 

 all in our specimens olc o c c i n e a: 



t In another specimen of this species, taken in the hills west ofVera Cruz by Dr. Sar- 

 torius, and sent to the Smithsonian Institution, Washington, there are 13 rows of scales, 

 and tv/enty pairs of black rings not separated the width of one scale. 



Another specimen in the Museum Smiths. Inst, resembles our var. A — having the scales 

 in twenty- one rows without black tips, and twenty-one pairs of black rings on the body. 

 It differs from it in having no yellow marking whatever upon it, and in the black rings 

 being but one scale and a half wide instead of three, and in the smaller size. The first 

 black ring does not touch the occipital plates, in this resembling the c o c c i n e a, which 

 differs in having nineteen rows of scales, and yellow rings. The head and plates are 

 broad and short, the scales as in doliata, and more lanceolate than inannulata 

 Kenn. Though loth to add another to the already difficult series of red Lampropeltes, 

 the more we have thought of it the more are we impressed with the belief that this is 

 deserving of recognition as a species. Unite it with any species with which we are ac- 

 quainted, and the characters which distinguish all the species in the series from trian- 

 gula to micropholis are invalidated. We propose that it be called L. a m a u r a. 

 Locality unknown. 



For the opportunity of examining and describing these and other specimens noticed in 

 this paper, in the National Museum of the Smithsonian Institute, Washington, we are 

 indebted to the liberality of its distinguished officers Profs. Henry and Baird. 



[June, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 259 



132. E. intricat us Dum. and Bibr. vii. p. 855. 



Var. scales of the white (red or yellow) spaces without black tips. 

 One sp. S. America, Dr. Neill. 



133. E. venustissimus Boie, 1. c. CoroneUa venuntissima Schl. Essai ii. 

 p. 53. Erythr. venKstissimus Dum. Bibr. vii. 851. Giinther Cat. Brit. Mus. 47. 



Var. B. Dum. Bibr. 



Two sp. S. America, Mr. Cuming in ex. 



Var. ? Head black from a single collar forward, except anterior halves of 

 upper labials, which are red. The vertical plate appears to be broader 

 anteriorly than ordinarily, but the specimen is not in sufficiently good state of 

 preservation to offer distinct characters. 



One sp. S. America, Dr. Strain. 



134. E. Aesculapii Wagler, Nat. Syst. Amphib. 187. Dum. etBibr. vii. 

 p. 845. C'lrondla veiiusta Schleg. Essai, i. p, 135. 



Var. D. Dum. Bibr. 1. c. p. 849. 



One sp. Surinam, Dr. Hering. 



In this specimen twenty-two pairs of reddish brown rings encircle the body 

 from head to tail. These bands are three and a half scales wide and are sepa- 

 rated by equal light spaces of one scale in width. It is only on the belly that 

 the former appear in pairs. Head as in the true Aesculapii. A species ? 



Var. E. nobis. 



The distribution of colors on the head as usual. Twelve pairs of black rings, 

 those of each pair becoming confluent on the middle of the back. The broad 

 interspaces are shaded with brown, which is deeper on the tip of each scale. 



This variety (a species ?) resembles the C of Dumeril & Bibron, where the 

 rings composing the pairs are separated by a very narrow interval, and the 

 spaces between the pairs are very dark. 



One spec. Surinam, Dr. Colhoun. 



135. E. albost olatu s ?!o6(s. 



Number of the plates of the head the same as in the venustissimus . 

 In form, the fifth and sixth upper labials are narrower and higher ; and the 

 formulas, vertical, and superciliaries, are broader. The eye is larger, the 

 temporal region more swollen, and the whole head deeper and more obtuse. 

 Rows of scales fifteen. Gastrosteges, 167 ; one divided anal ; urosteges, 48. 



The ground color of the upper and under surface of this serpent is white, 

 as a note made by Mr. Samuel Ashmead, its discoverer, at the time of its 

 capture, informs us. This is crossed on the body, by ten or thirteen black 

 .single rings four or five scales wide, and from seven to twelve scales apart. 

 Another ring crosses at the anus, and there are two double rings on the tail. 

 The scales in the white intervals are broadly tipped with black. The distri- 

 bution of color on the head, much as in E. venustissimus. There is 

 a broad black collar which crosses the tips of the occipitals and does not 

 encircle the throat. The fifth and sixth upper labials, the first temporal, the 

 tips of the plates adjoining them posteriorly, and a spot on the occipitals, are 

 white. The rostral, first two labials, nasals and loreal are bordered with the 

 same, the rest of the head is black. Chin immaculate. 



One specimen. Jijuca, near Rio Janeiro, Mr. S. A. Ashmead. 



One " ? ? 



ScoLECOPHis Fitz. Type S. atrocinctus. 



Systema Reptilium, 1842, p. 25. Eomalocranion Dum. & Bibr. viii. 855, 

 Gtinther, Cat. Brit. Mus. 18. 



136. S. zonat us no6j.-;. Flaps 20«a^MS Hallowell, Journ. Acad. Nat. Sci. 

 New Series, vol iii. p. 35. 



This species is very similar to the S. a t r oc i n c tus of Chili. It differs 



I860.] 




260 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



in having the seventh superior labial larger than the sixth, and in having 

 four large temporals on each side, of equal size, one smaller above the last 

 labial, and two still smaller at the end of each occipital. The breadth of the 

 head at the temples is equal to the length from the muzzle to the extremity 

 of the occipital suture. There are forty-five black rings on the body and tail, 

 which leave white interspaces, wider upon the back than the flanks. Only 

 the white scales on the latter region are tipped with black. The anal scute 

 is divided. 

 One specimen. Honduras, Dr. S. W. Woodhouse. 



PsEUDOBOA Schneider. Type P. coronata. 



Hist. Amphib. Fasc. ii. p. 286, 1801. ScytaJe Boie, Isis, 1826, 981, (not of 

 Merrem.) Wagler, Natur. Syst. 187. Dum. & Bibr. vii. p. 996. Giinther, 

 Cat. Brit. Mus. 187. Olisthenes, Cope, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. 1859, p. 296. 



Schneider's name for this genus possesses the right of priority over that of 

 Merrem. Tlie almost universal acceptation of the latter by herpetologists, is 

 also the more to be regretted as the type is not known. The relative num- 

 ber of the gastro- and urosteges in the Scytale anguiformis of Merrem 

 renders its identity with Erythrolamprus venustissimus very improb- 

 able. 



137. P. coronata Schneider. Scytale coronaium Boie, Wagler, Dum, & 

 Bibr. Griinther, etc. Lycodon cloelia, var. Schl. 



One specimen. Caraccas, Mr. W. G. Bolton. 



One " Panama, Drs. Gallaer and LeConte. 



138. P. Ne u w i edi ?ioZ>«s. Dum. & Bibr., vii. p, 1001, Olisthenes enphaeus 

 Cope, 1. c. 



One specimen. S. America, Ed. D. Cope. 



OxTEOPCs Wagler. Type 0. petolarius. 

 Natur. Syst. Amphib., 1830, p, 185. Hi/droscopus et Deiropeda Fitz, Syst. 

 Kept. 1843, p, 26, Brachyruton Dum. k Bibr. vii. p. 1004, 1854. 



139. 0. plumbeus Gthr. Coluber plumbeus Wied. Abbild. xii. pi. 6. 

 Duberria (1824) et Hydroscopus (1843) plumbeus Fitz. Brachyruton plumbeum, 

 D. et B. 



One specimen. Cayenne, Gard. plants in ex. 



One " Surinam, Dr. Hering. 



One " ? Dr. Wilson. 



One " Trinidad, Dr. Watson. 



140. 0. melanocrotaphus nobis This serpent resembles the 0. 

 cloelia, but may be distinguished from it, first, by the form of the head 

 and the distribution of colors on it (second), and third, by the relative 

 length of the tail. 



The profile of the muzzle is very rounding and obtuse, and its sides nearly 

 plane ; the head is deep. Eight upper labial plates, third, fourth and fifth, 

 entering the orbit. Loreal large, as high as long. Anterior border of the 

 vertical plate not greater than the length of the lateral borders. The latter 

 are slightly concave, and scarcely or not at all convergent. Three temporals 

 on the exterior border, the first twice as large as the second, and bounding 

 the sixth and seventh upper labials. Preocular large ; one narrow postocular, 

 which will probably be found to be divided in other specimens. Inferior 

 labials eight. Geneials two pair, broad. Scales in nineteen longitudinal 

 rows. Gastrosteges 161, one entire anal, urosteges 45. Total length 25 in. 

 9 lines. Tail 4 in. 1 1., less than one sixth of total length ; incloeliaitis 

 a little more than one fifth. 



Coloration. The whole upper surface of the body and tail is of a pale yel- 

 lowish or brownish gray, many scales with one or two borders pure white. 



[June, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 261 



The plates of the head and chin are of a deeper tint, possibly red in life. 

 Parts of the post-ocular and sixth and seventh superior labials, the whole of 

 the eighth labial and the temporals, are covered by a black spot on each side, 

 which unites upon the nape of the neck with that of the opposite side. One 

 specimen, locality and donor unknown. 



141. 0, cloelia Gthr. Coluber cloelia Daudin. Clelia Daudinii Fitz. 

 1826, Cloelia occipitalis Wagl. 1830. Deiropeda cloelia Fitz, 1843. Bra- 

 chyruton cloelia Dum. & Bibr. 1853. 



One sp. Surinam. Dr. Hering. 



One " Cocuyas de Veraguas N. Grenada. Mr, R. W, Mitchell. 



One " Isth, of Panama. Drs. Gallaer and LeConte. 



One " Caraccas. Dr. Morris. 



142. 0. immaculatus Dum. 4~ Bibr. vii. 1029. 



Two sp. S. America. Capt. Jameson. 



143. 0. petolarius Warjler. Dum. & Bibr. vii. 1033. 



One sp. Surinam. Dr. Hering. 



One " (young) ? ? 



Var. The black bands occasionally dividing, alternating and becoming con- 

 fluent on the back. The loreal plate entering the orbit. 



One half grown spec. Is. of Panama. Drs. Gallaer and LeConte. 



144. 0, trigeminus Duvi. §• Bibr. -vii. 1013, Lycodon formosus Schl. 

 One sp. Bahia. Gard. Plants in ex. 

 One " S. America. Dr. Wilson, (Bp, C^U. pres. by Dr. DeKay.) 



LYCODONTIN^. 

 BooDON Dum. & Bibr. Type B. unicolor. 

 Erpetologie Generale, vii. p. 357, 1854. 



145. B. virgatus nobis. Coelopeltis virgata Hallowell, Proc. Acad, Nat. 

 Sci. vii. p, 98, 1854. Boodon nigrum Fischer, Abhandl. aus dem Gebiete der 

 Naturwissensch. Hamburg, iii. 91, 1856. '? Boodon capense A. Duvaeril, Rev, 

 et Mag. de Zoologie 1856, 464. Boodon quadrivirgatum Hallow. Proc. Phila. 

 Acad. 1857, p. 56. 



Foursp. Gaboon. Dr. Ford. 



One " Liberia. Mr. E. T. Cresson. 



Our specimens correspond exactly with the description of Dr. J. G. Fischer, 

 so that we have no doubt as to their belonging to the same species. Prof. 

 Dumeril loc. sup. cit. identifies the Coelopeltis v i r g a t a of HalloweU with 

 the Booden cape ns is D. &. B., and there is a possibility that the specimen 

 received by him from the Acad. Mus. belongs to the latter species. Our speci- 

 mens, however, presented by Dr. Ford, and subsequently described by Dr. Hal- 

 lowell as B. quadrivirgatum, and stated by him to be identical with his 

 C. virgata, cannot be identified with the B. capense. The former has 

 twenty one and twenty -three longitudinal rows of scales, the later twenty-nine 

 or thirty-one. 



146. B. quadrivittatus HalloweU, Proc. Acad. Phila. 1857, p. 54. 

 One sp. Isles de Los (off Sierra Leon.) Dr. Burtt, U. S. N. 



A fine species, resembling probably the Capense, but with twenty seven 

 rows of scales and a different disposition of the bands on the muzzle. 



Lycophidion Fitz. Type L. Horstokii. 

 Syat. der. Rept. p. 27. 



147. L. laterale Hallowell, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. 1857, p. 58. 



A Lycophidion with the coloration of a Boodon. The pupil is round ; the 

 anterior nasal plate almost reaches the edge of the lip, and wants but little 

 of meeting its feUow over the rostral. 



One sp. Gaboon. Dr. H. A. Ford. 



I860.] 




262 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



HoRMONOTUs Hallowell. Type H. a u d a x . 



Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. PhHa. 1857, p. 56. 



A genus agreeing with. Lamprophis Fitz., in having a larger series of verte- 

 bral scales, but differing in the elongated compressed body, and angular gas- 

 trosteges. 



148. H. audax Hallow. 1. c. 



One sp. Gaboon. Dr. H. A. Ford. 



The form of the body, and color of this species, bear some analogy to those 

 of the Boiga pulverulenta, just as the Boodons and Lycophidions 

 resemble the Brachycranion and Atractaspis. The subject of the pre- 

 valence of peculiar shades and arrangement of colors, throughout certain geo- 

 graphical districts, is one of much interest to the zoologist. The smoky and 

 fuscous colors of the serpents just alluded to are repeated among birds in the 

 Nectarinia fuliginosa, the genera Andropadus, Drymoeca, Artemyias, etc. 

 The Euprotodon (Lycodon) of the East Indies in the distribution and often in 

 the shade of its colors, resembles very much the venomous Bungarus and 

 Elaps (Calliophis) of the same countries. 



The Elaps of South America is represented in the same region by the black 

 and red-ringed Oxyrhopes, the Erythrolamprus, Pliocercus, Lampropeltis etc. 



? Lycodon Boie. Type L. aulicus. 



Isis, 1827, p. 551, num p. 521 ? Schlegel (pars) Ess. ii. p. 106. Fitzinger, 

 Neue Class, p. 29. Dunn et Bibr. vii. p. 367. Gunther 1. c. p. 201. 



We have strong doubts of the propriety of retaining the name Lycodon for 

 this genus, inasmuch as Boie first proposed it for the Colubar audax Linn. 

 a species of widely different affinities. Fitzinger in the " Neue Classification" 

 removed this species to the genus Dipsas, rightly estimating the differences 

 between it and those for which he retained the name Lycodon. He afterwards 

 ("Systema Reptilium," p. 29,) made the same species the tj-pe of his genu? 

 Siphlophis. Dumeril 1. c. p. 354, follows Fitzinger in the application of the 

 name Lycodon, and quotes Bole's original diagnosis as more particularly ap- 

 propriate to the C. aulicus and congeners. As however Boie says " dentes 

 colubrini" of the Psammophis and Dipsas, it must be equally appropriate to the 

 C. audax. This latter species is the type of Lycognathus Dum., fam. Anisodon- 

 tiens, Opisthoglyphes. 



In deference to authority we propose no change ; but if herpetologists should 

 ever see fit to apply the name Lycodon to the Lycognathus scolopax 

 (=audaa:) of Dumeril, the present genus might be appropriately called 

 Euprotodon, and the subfamily Euprotodontinae. 



149. L. aulicus Boie 1. c. Dum. & Bibr. vii, p. 369. L. hebe Schleg. 

 Var. A., Dum. & Bibr. 



One sp. ? Mr. R. Oakford. 



Var. B., Dum. & Bibr. 



One sp. India. Dr. Burroughs. 



One " " Gard. of Plants in ex. 



Var. F., Dum. & Bibr. 



One sp. Java. Dr. Ruschenberger. 



Seven sp. Philippine Is. Mr. Cuming in ex. 



EoMESoDOS nobis. Type E. semicarinatus. 



Palatine teeth of equal length. Mandibular teeth in a continuous series, 

 much longer and stronger anteriorly. Superior maxillary teeth in two slightly 

 separated series, those of the anterior long, but increasing regularly in length 

 posteriorly ; the posterior small in front, but terminating in one or two very 

 long, trenchant, smooth teeth. 



Form elongate, stout ; tail short ; gastrosteges bent on the flanks. Head 



[June, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 268 



distinct, the shields broad ; muzzle prominent. Two nasals, two postoculars, 

 one preocular, the loreal sometimes reaching the orbit beneath it. Scales 

 either smooth or partially carinate. Pupil elliptical. 



The serpents for which we propose this name are colubrine in form, but 

 possess a peculiar dentition, most resembling that of Dinodon and Odontomus 

 Duvi. Sj- Bibr. From both these forms they differ in having the anterior pala- 

 tines no longer than the posterior (i. e. pterygoids), and the posterior su- 

 perior maxillaries abruptly longer than the three or four whicli precede them. 

 150, E. semicarinatus nobis. Head depressed, conic, the width at 

 the eighth labial plate less than half the length. Muzzle rounded conic, pro- 

 minent, acute in profile. Pupil ? Body cylindrical, tail one-fourth of total 

 length. Scales short, obtuse, in seventeen longitudinal rows ; anteriorly 

 smooth, near the middle of the body three or four rows, and finally seven or 

 eight, having distinct keels on the anterior half of each scale. Those of the 

 tail smooth. No larger vertebral series. Rostral plate exhibiting a large 

 crescentic inferior surface ; superior surface large, presenting an obtuse angle 

 between the prefrontals. Postfrontals three times the size of the prefrontals. 

 Vertical broad, short, pentagonal, the anterior border greater than the lateral, 

 and equal to the greatest length of the plate. Superciliaries not acute in front. 

 Occipitals elongate, not bifurcate, bordered by two large temporals on each 

 side. The anterior of these is narrow, and separated from the sixth and 

 seventh labials by a broader and shorter plate, both in contact with the post- 

 oculars. The posterior is broad, and bordered by two others on its postero- 

 inferior border. 



Superior labials eight, third, fourth and fifth entering the orbit. Two post- 

 one preocular. Loreal low, elongate, acute behind, not reaching the orbit. 

 Nasal plates two, nostril large. Inferior labials ten, geneials two pair. 



Coloration. Above yellowish brown, crossed by forty-two large black spots. 

 The scales which fall in the border of each spot are absolutely black, but those 

 enclosed have a large central spot of the ground-color. The latter appears 

 above as light transverse bands one scale wide. There are seventeen spots on 

 the tail, darker than those of the body. Head above brownish black, con- 

 tinuous with the first dorsal spot. From the posterior extremity of each occi- 

 pital plate a yellowish band proceeds outwards and backwards, uniting with 

 an area of the same color which extends from the throat upon the sides of the 

 neck. In the centre of this area is a brownish black spot. Spottings of yel- 

 lowish on the temporal plates form an irregular postocular band, and another 

 equally indefinite and irregular extends from the eye round the muzzle. Su- 

 perior labials (except tlieir edges) chin, throat, belly and under surface of tail 

 brownish yellow. The ends of the gastrosteges on the flanks, partly in- 

 cluded in a series of spots which alternate with the larger ones of the back. 

 Urosteges spotted with blackish. Gastrosteges 221 ; one entire post-abdomi- 

 nal ; urosteges 92 pair. Total length, 37 inches ; the tail 9 in. 3 lines. One 

 specimen, captured by Mr. Heine of the U. S, Japan expedition at Loo Choo, 

 presented by the Smithsonian Inst. 



151. E. s tr i a t u s nobis. Coronella striata Hallowell, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci 

 1856, p. 152. 



This serpent resembles the preceding in many points — remarkably in the 

 dentition — yet presents differences which may at some time be regarded as 

 generic. The entrance of the loral plate into the orbit, the smooth scales with 

 the vertebral series slightly larger, and the elliptic pupil, approximate it to the 

 Dinodon c a n c e 1 1 at u ni Dum. & Bibr. In the palatine and superior maxil- 

 lary teeth the differences are of a kind which would be considered generic by 

 the authors of the Erpetologie Generale. In specific characters there is much 

 resemblance, but our serpent has fewer urosteges, there being 70 to 193 gas- 

 trosteges ; in the Dinodon 168 to 194. The spots above are reddish brown, not 

 black ; and the belly is not punctulated posteriorly. 



We at one time thought that our specimen belonged to the Lycodon rn f o- 

 1860.] 




264 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



?, o n a t u 3 Cantor^ Ann. et Magaz. Nat. Hist. 1842, p. 483, and that long im- 

 mersion in spirits had destroyed the lighter colors. We now believe the ani- 

 mals to be distinct, but nearly allied. 

 Two specimens and head. Ningpo. Dr. McCartee. 



DIPSADIN^. 

 BoiGA Fitzinger. Type B. irregularis. 



Neue Class, der Reptilien, pp. 29, 60, 1826. Triglyphodon Dumeril, Pro- 

 drome de la Class. Ophid. p. Ill, 1852. Erp. Gen. vii. p. 1069, 1854. Dipsas 

 Schleg. Essai, ii. p. 257, 1837. Fischer, Abhdl. aus Gebiete Wissensch. Hamb. 

 iii. p. 81, 1856. Giinlher, Cat. Brit. Mus. p. 169, 1858, (not of Laurenti, 1768.) 

 Gonyodipsas, Cephalophis et Macrocephalus Fitz. Syst. Rept. 27, 1843. Toxico- 

 dryas Hallow. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phil. 1857, p. 60. 



This is the genus Dipsas as understood by GUnther 1. c. We have, however, 

 not followed this author in the application of a name, since that employed by 

 him was given to another and allied form, long previously. Some time subse- 

 quent to the first use of Dipsas, the present genus received the barbarous ap- 

 pellation of Boiga (!). This we would gladly resign in favor of Triglyphodon 

 Dum^ril^ but dates are inexorable. Vae serioribus. 



152. B. dendrophila nobis. Dum. Bibr. 1. c. p. 1086. Dipsas dendro- 

 phila Reinw. et auctorum. 



One sp. Java. Garden of Plants. 



153. B. Blandingii nobis. Dipsas Blandingii Hallowell, Proc. Acad. Nat. 

 Sci. Phila. ii. p. 170, 1844. Triglyphodon fuscum Dum. Bibr. vii. p. 1101, 1854, 

 (not B. f u s c a . =^DendropMsfusca Gray, Zool. Misc. 1842, p. 54). Dipsas valida 

 Fischer, loc. cit. 1856. Gthr. loc. cit. p. 172, 1858. Toxicodryas Blandingii 

 Hallow, loc. cit. p. 60, 1857. Our specimens of this fine and interesting dipsa- 

 dien agree very nearly with the description and figures of Fischer. The two 

 preoculars and divided anal shield are striking characters,* and it exhibits a 

 relationship to Ophiodon Dum. and Bibr. in its elongate anterior maxillaries, 

 On these peculiarities, but especially from the fact that our specimens have but 

 a single grooved tooth on each side. Dr. Hallowell proposed his genus Toxico- 

 dryas. The latter character is, however, inconstant, for Fischer states that his 

 specimen had two such teeth on each side, and Dumeril, that his had three. 

 The elongation of the anterior maxillary and palatine teeth does not appear 

 to us sufficiently distinctive to afford generic characters, nor are the other 

 peculiarities of su-fBcient importance. 



154. B. pulvernlenta nobis. Dipsas pulverulenta Fischer, Abhandl. der 

 Naturwissensch. in Hamburg, ii. p. 81. Taf. iii. f. 1. Gtinther, Cab. Brit. Mus. 

 p. 173. 



One sp. Liberia. Mr. E. T. Cresson. 



A beautiful specimen, having the lateral spots obsolete anteriorly. There is 

 in this species, also, but one groved superior maxillary. 



155. B. multimaculata nobis. Dipsas multimaculata Reinw. et Auct- 

 orum. Erp. Gen. vii. p. 1139. 



One sp. Java. ? 



HiMANTODEs Dum. «fe Bib. Type H. cenchoa. 



Erp. Gen. vii. p. 1064. Dipsas Boie, Isis, 1827, p. 521. Fitzinger, Syst. Rept. 

 27, 1843. 



This genus unites the short, flat head of the true Dipsas, (Leptognathus D. 

 & B. Gthr.) with the dentition of the preceding genus. The tail is very long and 

 slender. 



156. H. c e n c h a Dum. ^- Bibr. vii. p. 1065. Coluber cenchoa Linn. Dipsas 

 * Also possessed by Boiga g 1 o b i c e p s =Dipsa$ globiceps Fisch. 1. c. 



[June, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 265 



cenchoa Wied. Boie, "Wagler, Giinther 1. c. p. 174. Dipsas Weit/elii Scbleg. ii. 



p. 278. Fitz. Syst. Rept., p. 27. 



One sp. Near Isalco, San Salvador. Capt. J. M. Doav. 



Our specimen bas the preoculars united, wliich peculiarity appears to be 

 not uncommon. The dorsal spots connected by a narrow, often irregular 

 brown vitta. 



Tripasurgus Fitz. Type T. leucocephalus. 



Systema Reptilium. 1843, p. 27. 



157. T. leucocephalus Fitz. Cohiher leucocephalus Mikan. Col. com- 

 pressus Oppel. Dipsadomorphus compressus Fitz. Dipsas leucocephalus Schleg. 

 Lycognathus leucocephalus Dum. & Bibr. Eudipsas leucocephalus Gthr. 

 One sp. V ? 



Dipsas Laurenti. Type D. In d i c a. 



Specimen Synopsis Reptilium, p. 89, 1768. Dipsadomorus, Petalognathus et 

 Leptognathus Dnm. & Bibr. vii. pp. 463, 477, 1854. Leptogjiathus Giinther, Cat. 

 Brit. Mus., p. 177, 1858. Pholidolwmus Sihijnomorphus et Sibynon Fitz. Syst. 

 Rept., 27, 1843. 



The genus Dipsas has been variously understood and defined by herpetolo- 

 gical authors. As four distinct groups have been designated by this name, in 

 order to avoid further confusion we have employed it for that to which it was 

 first applied. In the Synopsis Reptilium of Laurenti, which bears date 1768, 

 the name was first proposed, with an appropriate " character," and D. I n d i c a 

 Laur. was indicated as the typical and only species. In 1852 Dumeril made 

 the same species the type of his genus Dipsadomorus, and in 1858 Giinther 

 placed it in Leptognathus Dum. We next find the genus Dipsas characterized 

 at length by Boie in his invaluable contribution to herpetology, in the Isis von 

 Oken for 1827, and D. cenchoa assigned as the type. This species is the 

 Himantodes of Dumeril, 1852. In the Regne Animal, 1829, we find the genus 

 as proposed by Laurenti retained, and of all modern authors Cuvier is the 

 only one who does so. In 1830 the Naturlich System der Amphibien of Wagler 

 appeared. Here Dipsas dendrophila Rein, is considered typical of the 

 genus ; and in this he is followed by the great ophidiologist Schlegel, in the 

 •' Essai," in 1837. The group of which this species is a typical example was 

 named Triglyphodon by Dumeril in 1852, but is the Boiga of Fitzinger, 1826. 



Fitzinger, in the Systema Reptilium, 1843, cites Dipsas cenchoa. 

 ("Weigelii") as the type of the genus, following Boie. Phillippo de Phillippi, 

 in the Catalogue of Serpents in the Museum of the University of Pavia, 1849, 

 follows Wagler and Schlegel. 



la the Prodrome de la Classification des Reptiles Ophidiens, vol. xxiii. of the 

 memoirs of the French Academy, 1852, and afterward in the Erp. Generale, 

 Dumeril considers Dipsas trigonat a the type of the genus. In 1843. 

 Fitzinger proposed Dipsadomorphus for the same species. Finally, in 1858, in 

 the Catalogue of Colubrine Snakes in the British Museum, Dr. Giinther places 

 D. multimaculata first among the species, and so characterizes the genus 

 as to be nearly coextensive with Triglyphodon, Dumeril, including also 

 Himantodes of the latter. 



Believing the genera of Dipsadinse as defined by Giinther, to be, on the 

 whole, more natural than those of other authors, we have adopted them here, 

 simply employing the name Dipsas for that called by him Leptognathus, and 

 Boiga for his Dipsas. 



158. D. nebulata Boie, 1. c. Coluber nebulaius Linn. 1754, Col. variegatm 

 Hallow. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. ii. p. 244, 1845. Dipsas nebulata Schleg. 

 Essai, ii. p. 275. Sibynon nebulata Fitz. 1. c. Petalognathus nebulatus Dum. & 

 Bibr., 1. c. Leptognathus nebulatus Giinther, I.e. 



One specimen, Surinam, Dr. Hering. 



One " " Dr. Colhoun. 



Two " Near Caraccas, Mr. Asbmead. 



I860.] 17 




266 PROCEEDINGS Or THE ACADEMY OF 



159. D. pavonina Cuvier, MSS., Schlegel, Essai, ii. p. 280. Leptognathus 

 pavoninus Dum. & Bibr. vii. p, 474, Guather, I.e. 179. 



One specimen, S. America. ? 



160. D. b re vi s nobis. Leptognathus brevis Dum. & Bibr. vii. p. 476. 



One specimen. Cocuyas de Veraguas, New Grenada, R. W. Mitciiell, 



Oar specimen of this rare species has but one preocular plate ; its form too, 

 is no less slender than that of our D. pavonina, which, however, may 

 not be fully grown. Otherwise it coincides with the description cited. The 

 dark brown of the upper surface of the head is marked with small, irregular 

 spots of white. 



SiBON Fitzinger. Type S. a nn ulat a . 



Neue Classification der Reptilien, 1826, p. 60. Leptodeira Fitz., Systema 

 Reptilium, 27, 1843. Giinther, Cat. Brit. Mus. p. 165. 



161. S. annulata Fitz. 1. c. Coluber annulatus Linn. Dipsas annulata 

 Schleg. Essai, ii. p. 294, Dum. & Bibr., vii. 1141. Leptodeira annulata Fitz. 

 et Gthr. 1. c. 



Scales in nineteen or twenty-one rows. 



a. With an undulating dorsal band. Var. A. Dum. & Bibr. 



Six specimens. Surinam, Dr. Hering. 



b. With isolated, sometimes geminate spots. Var. B. Dum. & Bibr. 

 Five specimens. Caraccas, Mr. Ashmead. 

 One " " W. G. Bolton. 

 One " Isth. Panama. Dr. LeConte. 



Four " S. America, Mr. H. Cuming, in ex. 



Scales in twenty-three rows. 

 Two specimens. Honduras, J. S. Hawkins & Dr. LeConte. 



One " Near Volcano Isalco, San Salvador, Capt. John M. Dow. 



One " Xalapa, John Cassin, Esq. (De Oca coll.) 



Two •' ? ? 



There is much difference in the appearance of the specimens of this species 

 which come from the extreme points of distribution represented in our collec- 

 tion, viz. Surinam and Xalapa. As has been observed by authors, those from 

 the more southern localities, have more slender bodies and tails, and hence, 

 fewer longitudinal rows of scales, and the head is more distinct. The whole 

 " physiognomy" is more that of the arborial Dipsadiens. This is more striking 

 in a specimen where the vertebral rows of scales in places is slightly, but dis- 

 tinctly larger than the others. From the Stomach of a Surinam specimen we 

 took an adult Hyla ; from one from Caraccas, a Thecadachylua rapicaudus. 



Specimens from Mexico exhibit a stouter, heavier form of body, a greater 

 number of longitudinal rows of scales, and a shorter tail. They seldom, if ever, 

 have the dorsal spots confluent into a band, strictly speaking, as in the var. A. 

 Dum. & Bibr. Their aspect is that of a terrestrial species. 



That these forms are really distinct .«pecies, is possible, but it could only be 

 demonstrated with large series of specimens from carefully ascertained locali- 

 ties, if at all. Some of the specimens from Caraccas and Panama, are very 

 intermediate as respects the peculiarities mentioned. 



Dipsas septentrionalis Kennicott, (Mexican Boundary Survey, ii. 

 Reptiles, p. 16, pi. viii. fig. 1,) belongs to this genus. The grooving of the 

 posterior upper maxillaries is not represented in the fig. 2, pi. 22, 1. c. It 

 seems to resemble northern forms of S. annulata; but has the nasals and 

 prefrontals differently proportioned, etc. It has three preoculars but we not 

 unfrequently find one or more supplemeatary preoculars in the annulata. 



[June, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF THILADELPHIA. 267 



Synonymy of the Cyclades, a family of Acephalous Mollusca. Part 1. 

 BY TEMPLE PRIME. 



Family CYCLAS, Far. 



Genera, 



Galatea, Brag. 



Pectunculus, Lister. Venus, Chemn. Donax, Perry. Tellina, Dillwyn. 



Cliama, Favanne. Egeria, De Roissy. Megadesma, Bowditch. PotamopJiila. 



Sowerby. Galateola, Fleming. Trigona, Schum. 



Glauconome, Gray. 

 Solen, Linn. Glauconomya, Bronn. 



Cypeina, Lamk. 

 Pectunculus, Lister. Cardia, Olafsen. Venus, Linn. Arctica, Solium. 



Velokita, Gray. 1834. 

 Cyrena, Valenc. 1838. 



CoEBicPLA, Megerle. 1811. 

 Tellina, Miiller, 1774. Venus, Chemn. 1782. Cyclas, Brug. 1792. Cyrena, 

 Lamk., 1818. Venulites, Schl., 1820. 



Cyeena, Lamk. 1818. 

 Venus, Chemn., 1769. Cyclas, Brag., 1792. Cyanocyclas, Fer., 1818. Poly- 

 mesoda, Rafin., 1820. Mactra, Brongt., 1823. Geloina, Gray, 1844. 



Batissa, Gray. 1854. 

 Cyprina, Cyclas, Brug., 1792. Cyrena, Lamk. 1818. 



Sph^eium, Scopoli. 

 Pectunculus, Lister, 1685. Musculus, Gualt. 1742. Tellina, Linn., 1758- 

 Sphcerium,ScoTp., nil. Cardium, Da, Costa, 1718. Cyclas, Brng., 1192. Nitx, 

 Humphr. 1797. Musculium, Link. 1807. Cornea, Pisum, Megerle. 1811. 

 Corneocyclas, Fer., 1818. Amesoda, Rafin., 1820. Pisidium, Verany, 1846. 

 Cycladites, Krug, 1848. 



Pisidium, Pf. 1821. 

 Pectunculus, List., 1685. Musculus, Gualt., 1742. Tellina, Miiller, 1774. 

 Sphcerium, Scop. 1777. Cavdium, Poli. 1791. Cyclas, Lamk. 1818. Peru, 

 Euglesia, Cordula, Leach, 1S20. Physemoda, Raf., 1820. Gallileja, Da, Costa., 

 1839. Pisum, Gray, (non Megerle), 1847. Muscidium, Gray, (non Link), 

 1851. 



Species.* 

 Veloeita, Gray. 

 1. V. Cyprinoides, Gray. Grif. Cuvier, pL 31, f. v. 1834. 



Cyrena Cyprinoides, Gray. Ann. Phy. n. ser. ix. 136. 1825. 

 C. recurvata, Valenc. Mag. Zool. pi. 119, f. 2. 1838. 

 C. Gaudichaudii, Valenc. Loc. sub. cit. pi. 119, f. 2. 1838. 

 Hab. Philippines. 



CoKBicuLA, Megerle. 

 1. C. acut angular is , Desh. 



Cyrena acutangularis, Desh. Inv. Par. 517, pi. 38, f. 17, 18. 1857. 

 Hab. France, (fossil.) 



* The synonymy of the species of Galatea, Glauconome and Cyprina, will be givtn at 

 some future period; that of the species of Batissa and Pisidium will be found in the 

 Annals of the Lyceum of N. H., of New York, vol. vii. 



I860.] 




268 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



2. C. Africana, Adams. Ad. Rec. Gen. 2, 447. 1858. 



Cyrena Africana, Kr. Moll. S. Afr. 8, pi. i. f. 9. 1848. 

 C. Gauritziana, Kr. In litt. 1848. 

 Hab. Africa. 



3. C. Agrensis, Prime. 



Cyrena Agrensis, Kurr. in litt. 



Hab. India. 



« 



4. C. Alp in a, Prime. 



Cyrena Alpina, Bgt. Spt. fr. 49. 1854. 

 Cyclas Alpina, d'Orb. Prod. 2, 381. 1851. 

 Hab. France, (fossil ) 



5. C. ambigua, Desh. Proc. Zool. xxii. 345. 1854. 

 Hab. Euplirates. 



6. C. amy gdal ina, Desb. 



Cyrena amygdalina, Desb. Inv. Par. 500, pi. 37, f. 22, 23. 1857. 

 Hab. France, (fossil.) 



7. C. angnsta, Desh. 



Cyrena angusta, Desb. Inv. Par. 508, pi. 37, f. 9-12. 1857. 

 Hab. France, (fossil.) 



S. C. antiqna, Prime. 



Cyrena antiqua, Fer. Moll. terr. et fluv. f. 5. 

 Cyclas antiqua, d'Orb. Prod. 2, 304. 1854. 

 Hab. France, (fossil.) 



9. C. Arnoudii, Prime. 



Cyrena Arnoudii, Pot et Mich. Gal. Moll. 2, 192, pi. 61, f. 1 5, 16. 1838-44. 

 Hab. France, (fossil.) 



10. C. Arveniensis, Desh. 



Cyrena Arveniensis, Desh. Trait. Elem. Conch. 2, 698. 1843-50. 

 C. p(suTO, Desh. Boaillet, Cat. 157. 1836. 

 Hab. France, (fossil.) 



11. C. Anstralis, Desh. 



Cyclas Anstralis, Lam. Lam. V. 560. 1818. 

 Cyrena Anstralis, Desh. Encycl. Meth. 2, 50. 1830. 

 Hab. Asia. 



12. C. Bengalensis, Desh. Proc. Zool. xxii. 344. 1854. 

 Hab. Bengal. 



13. C. Bens on i, Desh. Proc. Zool. xxii. 345. 1854. 

 Hab. Bengal. 



14. C. Bouilletii, Desh. 



Cyrena Bouilletii, Desh. Trait. Elem. Conch. 2, 698. 1843-50. 

 C. depressa, Desh. Bouillet, Cat. 156. 1836. 

 Hab. France, (fossil.) 



15. C. Bra si liana, Adams. Ad. Rec. Gen. 2, 447. 1858. 

 Hab. Brazil. 



16. C. breviuscula, Desh. 



Cyrena breviuscula, Desh. Inr. Par. 503, pi. 36, f. 9-11. 1857. 

 Hab. France, (fossil.) 



17. C. Br i t ann ic a , Desh. 



Cycles deperdita. Lam. Park. Org. Rem. 3, 189, pi. 13, f. 8. 1811. 

 Cyrena subdeperdita, Morris. Cat. Brit, fossils 86. 1843. 

 Cyclas subdeperdita, d'Orb. Prod. 2, 305. 1850. 



[June, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 269 



Cyrena Britannica, Desh. Inv. Par. 501. 1857. 

 Hab. Engl. (fossU.) 



18. C. brunea, Prime. In litt. 1860. 

 Hab. Scamander River. 



19. C. Cash miri en sis , Desh. Proc. Zool. xxii. 344. 1854. 

 Hab. Cashmyr. 



20. C. C h i 1 e n s i s , Prime. 



Cyclas Chilensis, d'Orb. Voy. Amer. 568, pi. 83, f. 11-13. 1846. 

 Musculium Chilense, d'Orb. Ads. Rec. Gen. 2, 451. 185S. 

 Pisurn Chilense, d'Orb. Loc. sub. cit. 2, 460. 1858. 

 Hab. Chili. 



21. C. c mpres sa, Mousson. Ads. Rec. Gen. 2, 447. 1858. 

 Hab? 



— C. consobrina, Adams. Rec. Gen. 2,447. [1858. Is Corbicula 

 cor Adams. 



22. C. convexa, Desh. Proc. Zool. xxii. 342. 1854. 

 Hab. Central America. 



23. C. cor, Adams. Rec. Gen. 2, 447. 1858. 



Cyrena cor. Lam. Lam. v. 552. 1818. Delessert pi. vii. f. 7. 1841. 

 C. consobrina, Caillaud. Voy. Meroe iv. 263, t. 2, pi. 61, f. 10-11. 



1826. 

 Ci/clas consobrina, Caillaud, Caltow and Reeve, 29. 1845. 

 Corbicula consobrina, Adams. Rec. Gen. 2, 447. 1858. 

 Hab. Asia. 



24. C. crass a, Desh. 



Cyrena crassa, Desh. Coq. Foss. Par. 1, 119, pi. 18, f. 14, 15. 1824. 

 C. spissa, Desh. Loc. sup. cit. p. 9, pi. IS, f. 14, 15. 1824. 

 Cycles crassa, d'Orb. Prod. 2, 422. 1850. 

 Hab. France, (fossil.) 



25. C. crassula, Prime. 



Cyrena crassula, Mousson. Mous. Cat. Bellardi. p. 54. f. 12. 1854. 

 Hab. Tigris River. 



26. C. Cumingii, Desh. 

 Hab. Philippines. 



27. C. cuneata, Adams. Rec. Gen. 2, 447. 1858. 



Cyrena cuneata, Jonas. Zeit. Malak. 186. 1844. Phil. Abb. 2, 77. pi. i. 



f. 6. 1846. 

 C. globulus, Jonas. In litt. 

 Hab. Orinoco. 



28. C. cuneiformis, Prime. 



Cyrena cuneiformis, Ferussac. Moll. Terr. Fluv. 



Cyclas cuneiformis, Sowb. M. Conch. 2, 140, pi. 162, f. 2, 3. 1818. 

 Cyrena donacialis, Desh. Diet, class h. n. v. 290. 1824. 

 C. donaciformis, Anton. Verz. 1839. 

 Hab. Europe, (fossil.) 



29. C. cycl adifo rmis, Desh. 



Erycina leevis. Lam. Ann. Mus. v. 413. 1805. 



Ci/rena cycladiformis, Desh. Coq. Foss. Par. 1, 121, pi. 19, f. 7-9. 1824. 

 Cycles cycladiformis, d'Orb. Prod. 2, 381. 1850. 

 Hab. Europe, (fossil.) 



30. C. deb ills. Prime. 



Cyrena debilis, Gould. Bost. Proc. 3, 293. 1850. 

 Hab. N. Guinea. 



I860.] 




270 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



31. C. deperdita, Desli. 



Cyclas deperdita, Lam. Ann. Mus. vii. 421. 1806. 

 Cyrena deperdita, Desh. Cog. Foss. Par. 1, 118, pi. 19, f. 14, 15. 1824. 

 Hab. France, (fossil.) 



32. C. Deshayesii, Prime. 



Cyrena Deshayesii, Hl'bert. Ball. Soc. Geol. Fr. 2d. n. v. 401. f. a. b. 

 1848. 

 Hab. France, (fossil.) 



33. C. D u ch a s t e 1 i , Nyst. Bull. Brux. xv. 114, f. 1-4. 1838. 



Cyrena trigonula. Wood. Ann. Mag. n. h. vii. 275, f. 45. 1841. 

 Hab. Europe, (fossil.) 



34. C. Fe rr us s aci. Prime. 



Cyrena Ferritssaci, Math. Cat. Meth. 149, pi. xiv. f. 14, 15. 1842. 

 Cyclas Ferrusmci, d'Orb. Prod. 3, 19. 1852. 

 Hab. France, (fossil.) 



35. C. fluminalis, Adams. Rec. Gen. 2, 447. 1858. 



TeUina fluminalis, Miiller. Verm. 2, 205. 1774. 



T. fluviatiUs, Miiller. Loc. sup. cit. 2, 206. 1774. 



Venus fluminalis, Chemn. vi. pi. 30, f. 320. 1782. 



V. fluviatiUs, Chemn. Loc. sup. cit. pi. 30, f. 321. 1782. 



Cyclas Euphratica, Lam. Ann. Mus. vii. 420. 1806. Encycl. pi. 301, 



f. 2, pi. 302, f. 1, 2. 

 C. fluviatiUs, Bosc. 3, 38. 1802. 

 C. Icevigata, Schum. 170, pi. xii, f. 1. 1817. 

 Cyrena fuscata. Lam. Lam. v. 552. 1818. 

 C. Euphratica, Bronn. Syst. Urwelt. pi. iv. f. 10. 

 C. orientalis, [Lam. Phil. Abb. 2, 75, pi. 1, f. 2. 1846. Mousson, 



Moll. Java 86, pi. xv. f. 2. 1849. 

 Corbicula fuscata. Cantor. Proc. Zool. x. 124. 1852. 

 Cyrena fluminalis, Bgt. Cat. Saulcy 79. 1853. 

 Corbicula fluviatiUs, Adams. Rec. Gen. 2, 447. 1858. 

 Hab. Asia. 



36. C. flu mine a, Adams. Rec. Gen. 2, 447. 1858. 



Tellina fluminea, Gml. 3243. 1788. Miiller, Verm. 2, 205. 1774. 

 Venus fluminea, Chemn. vi. 321, pi. 30, f. 322-23. 1782. 

 Cyclas Chinensis, Lam. Ann. Mus. vii. 421. 1806. 

 C. fluminea, Bosc. 3, 38. 1802. 



Cyrena fluminea, Lam. Lam. v. 553. 1818. Phil. Abb. 2, 76, pi, 1. 

 f. 3. 1846. 

 Hab. China. 



— C. fluviatilis, Adams. Rec. Gen. 2, 447. 1858, is Corbicula flu- 

 minalis, Adams. 



37. C. Forbesii, Desh. 



Cijrena Forbesii, Desh. Inv. Par. 510, pi. 37, f. 24^27. 1857. 

 Hab. France, (fossil.) 



— C. fuscata, Cantor. Proc. Zool. x. 124. 1852. Is Corbicula flumin- 

 alis, Adams. 



38. C. gracilis. Prime. 



Cyrena fluminf a, Mousson. Moll. Java, 87, pi. xv. f. 3. 1849. 



Corbicula Moussonii, Desh. Litt. Adams, Rec. Gen. 2, 447. 1853. 

 Hab. Java. 



— C. grand is, Desh. Proc. Zool. xxii. 344. 1854, is Corbicula W o o d - 

 iana, Adams. 



39. C. Grave si i, Desh. 



Cyrena Gravesii, Desh. Coq. Foss. Par. 2, 810. 1824. 



[June, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 271 



C. Gravii, Desli. Loc. sup. cit. 1, 120, pi. 19, f. 3-4. 1824. 



Cijclas Gravesii, d'Orb. Prod. 2, 323. 1850. 

 Hab. France, (fossil.) 

 — C. ha mm alls, Ferussac. Mag. Zool. v. 59-60. 1835. 



Cyclas hammalis, Fer. Rafin. Bory St. Vt. Ann. Gen. Sci. Phy. v. 319. 

 1820. (Not described.) 



40. C. inaequilateralis, Prime. In litt. 1860. 

 Hab. Africa. 



41. C. incrassata, Desb. Proc. Zool. xxii. 342, 1854. 

 Hab. ? 



42. C. L a r g i 11 i e r t i , Adams. Rec. Gen. 2, 447. 1858. 



Cyrena Largillierti. Phil. Zeit. Malac. 163. 1844. Abb. 2, 75, pi. 1, 

 f. 1. 1846. 

 Hab. China. 



43. C. limosa, Adams. Rec. Gen. 2, 447. 1858. 



Tellina limosa, Maton. Trans. Linn. Soc. London x. 325, pi. 24, f. 8-10. 



1809. 

 Cyrena limosa, Gray. Ann. Ph. n. ser. ix. 137. 1825. 

 Hab. South America. 



44. C. Malacensis, Desh. Proc. Zool. xxii. 343. 1854. 

 Hab. Malacca. 



45. C. Manillensis, Prime. 



Cyrena Manillensis. Phil. Zeit. Malac. 163. 1844. 

 C. fluviatilis. Phil, {non Venus Jluminea, Chemn.) Phil. Abb. 2, 77, 

 pi. 1, f. 5. 1846. 

 Hab. Manilla. 



46. C. maxima, Prime. Proc. Zool. xxviii. 1860. 

 Hab? 



47. C. media, Prime. 



Cyrena viedia, Fitton. Ann. Ph. and n. ser. vii. 376. 1824. 

 Cyclas media, Sowb. M. Conch, vi. 51, pi. 527, f. 2. 1829. 

 Hab. Engl, (fossil.) 



48. C. minor, Prime. In litt. 1860. 

 Hab? 



49. C. mixta, Desh. 



Cyrena mixta, Desh. lav. Par. 1058. 

 Hab. France, (fossil.) 



— C. Moussonii, Desh. Adams, Rec Gen. 2, 447. 1858. Is Corbicula 

 gracilis, Prime. 



50. C. Nepeansis, Prtme. 



Cyclas Nepeansis, Less. Voy. Coq. ii, 428, pi. xiii. f. 14. 1820. 

 Hab. N. South Wales. 



51. C. nitens, Adams. Rec. Gen. 2, 447. 1858. 



Cyrena nitens. Phil. Zeit. Malac. 163. 1844. Abb. 2, 76, pi. 1, f. 4. 

 1846. 

 Hab. China. 



52. C. n 1 a t a , Prime. In litt. 1860. 

 Hab. Phillipines. 



53. C. obovata, Prime. 



Cyclas obovata, Sowb. Min. Conch. 2, 140, pi. 162, f. 4-6, 1818. 

 Cyrena obovata, Desh. Encycl. Mcth. 2, 52. 1830, 

 Hab. Engl, (fossil.) 



I860.] 




-(2 PROCEEDINGS Or THE ACADEMY OF 



'A. C. b s c u r a , Desh. Proc. Zool. xxii. 342. 1854. 

 Hab? 



:)5. C. obsoleta, Desli. Proc. Zool. xxii. 345. 1854. 

 Hab. Uruguay. 



56. C. occidens, Bens, Adams, Rec. Gen. 2, 447. 1858. 

 Hab. India. 



57. C. orbicularis, Prime. 



Cyrena orbicularis, Desh. Mellev. Mem. Terr. Tert. Par. 35, pi. 2, f. 



3, 4. 1843. 

 Cydas suborbicularis, d'Orb. Prod. 2, 304. 1850. 

 Cyrena suborbicularis, Desh. Inv. Par. 497. pi. 38, f. 11, 12. 1857. 

 Hab. France, (fossil.) 



58. C. or lent alls, Adams. Rec. Gen. 2, 447. 1858. 



Cyrena orientalis, Lam. Lam. v. 552. 1818. Delessert, pi. vii. f. 8. 

 1841. 

 Hab. Asia. 



59. C. ovalina, Desh. Proc. Zool. xxii. 343. 1854. 

 Hab. Port. Essington, Australia. 



(JO. C. oval is, Prime. Proc. Zool. xxviii. 1860. 

 Hab? 



61. C. Pano rmi t ana, Adams. Rec. Gen. 2, 447. 1858. 



Cyrena Panonnitana, Bivon. 

 Hab. Europe, (fossil.) 



62. C. Par an a c en sis, Adams. Rec. Gen. 2, 448. 1858. 



Cyrena Paranacensis, d'Oi-b. Guer. Mag. v. 44. 1835. 

 Cyclas Paranacensis, d'Orb. Voy. Amer. 567, pi. 83, f. 23-25. 1846. 

 Hab. S. America. 



63. C. parva. Prime. 



Cyrena ovalina, Desh. Inv. Par. 505, pi. 36, f. 16-18. 1857. 

 Hab. France, (fossil.) 



64. C. parvula. Prime. In litt. 1860. 

 Hab. India. 



65. C. pisum, Desh. 



Cyrena pisum, Desh. Coq. Foss. Par. 1, 117, pi. 19, f. 10-13. 1824. 

 Cyclaspisum, d'Orb. (non Math.) Prod. 2, 322. 1850. 

 Hab. France, (fossil.) 



66. C. prolongata, Prime. In litt. 1860. 

 Hab. E. Australia. 



67. C. pulchella, Adams. Rec. Gen. 2, 448. 1858. 



Cyrena pulchella, Mouss. Moll. Java, 88, pi. 15, f. 4. 1849. 

 Hab. Java. 



68. C. pullata, Adams. Rec. Gen. 2, 448. 1858. 



Cyrena pullata, Fhil. Phil. Abb. 3, 110. 1849. 

 Hab. Sumatra. 



69. C. pusilla, Adams. Rec. Gen. 2, 448. 1858. 



Cyrena pusilla, Parr. Phil. Abb. 3, 78, pi. 1, f. 7. 1846. 

 Hab. River Nile. 



70. C. radiata, Adams. Rec. Gen. 2, 447. 1858. 



Cyraia radiata, Parr. Phil. Abb. 2, 78, pi, 1. f. 8. 1846. 

 Hab. River Nile. 



[June, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 278 



71. C. recur vat a, Eydous. Adams, Rec. Gen. 2, 448. 1858. 

 Hab? 



72. C. regularis, Pr. MSS. 1859. Collect. Cuming. 

 Hab. Deacan River, Australia. 



73. C. rbomboidea, Pr. MSS. 1859. Collect. Auctoris. 

 Hab. Malacca. 



74. C. rival is, Adams. Rec. Gen. 2, 448. 1858. 



Ci/rena rivalls, v. d. Buscb. Pbil. Abb. 3, 110, pi. 3, f. 5. 1849. 

 Corbicula striatella, Desb. Proc. Zool. xxii. 344. 1854. 

 Hab. Java. 



75. C. rotunda. Prime. Proc. Ac. N. S. Phil. 1860. 

 Hab. Surinam. 



76. C. R u y a n'a , Prime. 



Cyclas Rouyana, d'Orb. Prod. 2, 381. ^ 1850. 

 Cyrena Rouyana, Bgt. Spb. p. 51. 1854. 

 Hab. France, (fossil.) 



77. C. semistriata, Dash* 



Venulites subaratus, Scblotb. Petr. 200. 1820. 

 Cyrena semistriata, Desb. Encycl. 2, 52. 1830. 



a trigona, Besh. ) Goldf. Petr. Germ. 2. 1834-40. 

 \J c iiTiBitorTTiis F ©r* I 



d subovata, Bronn. Letb. Geog. 2, 958, pi. 38, f. 2. 1835-8. 

 Cyclas semistriata, d'Orb. Prod. 3, 19. 1852. 

 Cyrena convexa, Heb. et Renev. Foss. Num. Sup. 59. 1854. 

 Hab. Europe, (fossil.^ 



78. C. semisulcata, Desb. Proc. Zool. xxii. 343. 1854. 

 Hab. Victoria River, Australia. 



— C. s i m i 1 i s, Adams. Rec. Gen. 2, 448. 1858, is Corbicula W o o d i a n a , 

 Adams. 



79. C. soli du la, Prime. In litt. 1860. 

 Hab. ? 



80. C. squall da; Desb. Proc. Zool. xxii. 342. 1854. 

 Hab. ? 



— C. striatella, Desb. Proc. Zool. xxii. 344. 1854. Is Corbicula r i v a- 

 lis , Adams. 



81. C. subradiata, Prime. 



Cyrena subrad'iata, Kurr. 

 Hab. India. 



82. C. sulcatina, Desb. Proc. Zool. xxii. 348. 1854. 

 Hab.? 



83. C. tellinella, Prime. 



Cijrena tellinella, Ferussac. Hist. Moll. f. 1. 

 Cyclas tellindla, d'Orb. Prod. 2, 304. 1850. 

 Hab. Europe, (fossil.) 



84. C. tellinoidea, Prime. 



Cyrena tellinoidea, Bouillet. Cat. Foss. 156. 1836. 

 Hab. France, (fossil.) 



85. C. tenuistriata. Prime. Proc. Zool. xxviii. 1860. 

 Hab. ? 



86. C. triangula. Prime. 



Cyrena trigona, Desb. Coq. Foss. Par. 1, 118, pi. 19, f. 16, 17. 1824. 



I860.] 




274 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Cyclas trigona, d'Orb. Prod. 2, 304. 1850. 

 Hab. France, (fossil.) 



87. C. triangularis, Desh. Proc. Zool. xxii. 345. 1854. 

 Hab. ? 



88. C. trigona, Desh. Proc. Zool. xxii. 344. 1854. 

 Hab. Pondicherry, India. 



89. C. trig one 11a, Prime. 



Cyrena trir/onella, Lam. Lam. v. 552. 1818. 

 Hab. East Indies. 



90. C. truncata, Prime. 



Cyrena truncata, Lam. Lam. v. 553. 1818. 

 Hab. N. iimerica, (fossil.j 



91. C. turn id a, Desh. Proc. ZooL xxii. 343. 1854. 

 Hab. Borneo. 



92. C. Vapincana, Prime. 



Cyclas Vapincana, d'Orb. Prod 2, 381. 1850. 

 Cyrena Vapincana, Bgt. Sph. fr. 51. 1854. 

 Hab. France, (fossil.) 



93. C. variegata, Adams. Rec. Gen. 2, 448. 1858. 



Cyrena variegata, d'Orb. Guer. Mag. v. 44. 1835. 

 Cyclas variegata, d'Orb. Yoy. Amer. 567, pi. 82, f. 14-16. 1846. 

 Cyclas limosa, d'Orb. Loc. sup. cit. pi. 82, f. 14-16. 1846. 

 Hab. S. America. 



94. C. V e n er ifo rmi s, Desh. 



Cyrena veneriformis, Desh. Inv. Par. 499, pi. 38, f. 1, 2. 1857. 

 Hab. France, (fossil.) 



95. C. ven trice sa, Prime. In litt. 1860. 

 Hab. Mazatlan. 



96. C. violacea. Prime. In litt. 1860. 

 Hab.? 



97. C. Woo di an a, Adams. Rec. Gen. 2, 448. 1858. 



Cyrena Woodiana, Lea. Trans. Amer. Phil. Soc. v. 110, pi. 18, f. 55. 



1832. 

 Cyrena similis. Gray. Grif. Cuv. pi. 20, f. 2. 1834. 

 Corbicula grandis, Desh. Proc. Zool. xxii. 344. 1854. 

 Corhicula similis, Adams. Rec. Gen. 2, 448. 1858. 

 Hab. China. 



Cyrena, Lamarck. 



1. C. abbreviata, Desh. Invt. Par. 491, pi. 38, f. 13, 14. 1857. 

 Hab. France, (fossil.) 



— C. acutangularis, Desh. Loc. sub. cit. 517, pi. 38, f. 17, 18. 1857. 

 Is Corbicula acutangularis, Desh. 



2. C. sequalis, Glf. Petr. germ. 2, 224, pi. 146, f. 5, 1834—40. 

 Hab. Germany, (fossil.) 



3. C. sequilater a, Desh. Proc. Zool. xxii. 20. 1854. 

 Hab. Guiana. 



4. C. af fin is, Desh Loc. sub. cit. xxii. 16. 1854. 



— c' A f r i c an a , Kr. Moll. S. Afr. 8, pi. 1, f. 9. 1848. Is Corbicula 

 A f r i c a n a, Adams. 



[June, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 275 



— C. A 1 p i n a, Bgt. Sph. fr. 49. 1854. Is Corbicula A 1 p i n a, Prime. 

 — C. agrensis, Kurr. In litt. Is Corbicula agrensis, Prime. 



5. C. alta, Dkr. Wald. 153. 1854. 

 Hab. Germany, (fossU.) 



— C. altilis, Gld. Bost. II. vi. 400, pi. xvi. f. 5. 1852. Is Cyrena 

 Mexican a, Sowb. 



6. C. am big u a, Br. Geol. II. x. 275. 1854. 

 Hab. Germany, (fossil.) 



— C. amygdalina, Desh. Inv. Par. 500, pi. 37, f. 22, 23. 1857. Is 

 Corbicula amygdalina, Desh.. 



7. C. Anglic ana. Prime. 



Cyrena obiusa, Forbes, (preoc.) Rec. Sci. 2, pi. 3, f. 4. 

 Hab. England, (fossil.) 



3. C. angulata, Rcemer. Oolitt. i. 117, pi. 9, f. 12. 1835. 

 Hab. Germany, (fossil.) 

 — C. angulata, Desh. Proc, Zool. xxii. 22. 1854. Is Cyrena tumida, 



Prime. 

 — C. a n g u s t a, Desh. Inv. Par. 508, pi. 37, f. 9-12. 1857. Is Corbicula 



a n g u s t a, Desh. 



9. C. angustidens, Desh. Mellev. Terr. Tert. Par. 35, pi. 2, f. 1, 2. 1843. 



Cijclas angustidens, d'Orb. Prod. 2, 304. 1850. 

 Hab. France, (fossil.) 



10. C. anomala, Desh. Proc. Zool. xxii. 21. 1854. 



Cijrena Pei-uviana, Desh. In litt. 

 Hab. Peru. 

 — C. antiqua, Fer. MoU. Terr. FIut. f. 5. Is Corbicula ant i qua, Prime. 



11. C. apicina, Dkr. Wald. 149. 1834. 

 Hab. Germany, (fossil.) 



12. C. a rat a, Forbes. Geol. II. vii. pi. 5, f. 6. 1851. 

 Hab. England, (fossil.) 



13. C. arc tat a, Desh. Proc. Zool. xxii. 20. 1854. 

 Hab. Maracaibo. 



14. C. ar en aria, Forbes. Rec. Sci. 

 Hab. England, (fossil.) 



— C. Arnoudii, Pot. & Mich. Gal. Moll. 2, 192, pi. 61, f. 15, 16. 1838- 

 '44. Is Corbicula A r n o n d i i. Prime. 



— C. arveniensis, Desh. Trait. Conch. 2, 698. 1843-'50. Is Cor- 

 bicula Arveniensis, Desh. 



15. C. as tart e, Dkr. Wald. 153. 1831. 

 Hab. Germany, (fossil.) 



— C. A u s t r a 1 i s, Desh. Encycl. 2, 50. 1830. Is Corbicula A u s t r a- 

 lis, Desh. 



16. C. Ben g al en sis. Lam. Lam. v. 554. 1818. 



Venus Bengalensis, Lister, pi. 345, f. 182. 

 Cyclas Bengalensis, Fer, 

 Hab. Asia. 



17. C. B 1 i V i a n a, Phil. Zeit. Malac. 70. 1851. 

 Hab. Bolivia. 



— C. Bouilleti, Desh. Trait. Conch. 2, 698. 1843-50. Is Corbicula 



Bouilleti, Desh. 

 — C. breviuscula, Desh. Inv. Par. 503, pi. 36, f. 9-11. 1857. Is 

 Corbicula breviuscula, Desh. 

 I860.] 




276 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



18. C. Bronnii. Dkr. Wiild. 160. 1834. 

 Hab. Germany, (fossil.) 



— C. Brit annic a, Desh. Inv. Par. 501. 1857. Is Corbicula Brit a n- 

 nica, Desh. 



19. C. brunea, Pr. Proc. Zool. xxviii. 1860. 

 Hab.? 



20. C. B u s c h i i, Phil. Abb. 3, 78, pi. 2, f. 2. 1849. 

 Hab. ? 



21. C. C a 1 e d o n i c a, Gas. II. Conch, vi. 277. 1857. 

 Hab. N. Caledonia. 



22. C. Californiensis, Prime. 



Cijrena subquadrata, Desh. (preoc.) Proc. Zool. xxii. 21, 1854. 

 Hab. California. 



23. C. car dio ides, Desh. Inv. Par. 498, pi. 36, f. 1-3. 1857. 

 Hab. France, (fossil.) 



24. C. Car olini ensi s. Lam. Lam. v. 1818. 



Cijclas Caroliniensis, Bosc. Per. Cat. Meth. 84. 1807. 

 C. CaroUniana, Bosc. 3, 37, pi. xviii. f. 4. 

 Hab. N. America. 



25. C. c and at a, Roemer. Oolit. 1, 117, pi. 8, f. 13. 1835. 



Cyrenaexcavata, Eoemer. Loc. sub. cit. 1, 117, pi. 9, f. 6. 1835. 

 Hab. Germany, (fossil.) 



— C. Charpeuterianus, Bgt. (err.) II. Conch, iv. 173. 1853. Is 

 Ancylus Charpenterianus, Bgt. 



26. C. Charpentieri, Desh. P. & M. Gal. Moll. 2, 191, pi. 61, f. 18, 19. 

 1838-44. 



Hab. Europe, (fossil.) 



— C. Childrenae, Gray. Ann. Phy. n. ser. ix. 137. 1825. Is Ba- 

 tissa Children ae. Gray. 



27. C. compressa, Desh. Lam. (ed. Desh.) vi. 279. 1835. 



Cijrfna depressa, Desh. (non Lam.) Diet, class h. n. v. 290. 1824. 

 Cuclas subdepres.-^a, d'Orb. Prod. 2, 381. 1850. 

 Hab. France, (fossil.) 



28. C. compta, Desh. Proc. Zool. xxii. 18. 1854. 

 Hab.? 



— C. com^^ta, Desh. Inv. Par. 491, pk 35, f. 1-3, pi. 36, f. 19, 20. 

 1857. Is Cyrena G a 1 1 i c a n a. Prime. 



29. C. conjunct a, Desh. Proc. Zool. xxii. 15. 1854. 

 Hab? 



— C. consobrina, Cail. Voy. Mer. iv. 263, t. 2, pi. 61, f. 10, 11. 1826. 



Is Corbicula cor, Adams. 

 — C. convex a, H. & Renev. Foss. num. sup. 59. 1854. Is Corbicula 



semistriata, Desh. 

 — C. cor. Lam. Lam. v. 552. 1818. Is Corbicula cor, Adams. 



30. C. corbiculseformis, Prime. Ac. N. S. PhU. Proc. 1860. 

 Hab. Malabar. 



31. C. CO r d ata, Morris. Geol. II. x. 158, pi. 2, f. 8, 9. 1854. 

 Hab. England, (fossil.) 



32. C. cordiformis, Desh. Diet, class, h. n. 290. 1824. 

 Hab. France, (fossil.) 



— C. cordiformis, Recluz, (preoc.) II. Conch. 251, pi. 7, f. 9. 1853. 

 is Cyrena Recluzii, Prime. 



[June, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 277 



— C. crass a, Desh. Coq. foss. Par. i. 119, pi. 18, f. 14, 15. 1824. Is 



Corbicula c r a s s a, Desh. 

 — C. crassula, Mouss. Malak. Blilt. 57. 1855. Is Corbicula c r a s- 



s u 1 a. Prime. 



33. C. Credueri, Dkr. Weald. 152. 1846. 

 Hab. Grermany, (fossil.) 



34. C. crenulata, Desh. Inv. Par. 518, pi. 34, f. 10-12. 1857. 

 Hab. France, (fossil.) 



35. C. C 11 b e n s 1 s, Prime. 



Cijclas maritlma, d'Orb. D'Orb. Cuba 2, 280, pi. xxi. f. 47-50. 1853. 

 Hab. Cuba. 



36. C. Cumingii, Desh. Proc. Zool. xxii. 22. 1854. 

 Hab. Central America. 



— C. c u n e a t a, Jonas. Zeit. Malak. 186. 1844. Is Corbicula c u n e a t a, 

 Adams. 

 C. cuneiformis. Per. Moll. terr. fluv. Is Corbicula cuneifor- 

 m i s. Prime. 



37. C. Cunningliamii, Forbes. Geol. II. vii. 112, pi. v. f. 9. 1851. 

 Hab. England, (fossil.) 



— C. cycladiformis, Desh. Coq. foss. Par. 1, 121, pi. 19, f. 7-9. 1824. 



Is Corbicula cycladiformis, Desh. 

 — C. cyclo stoma, Bgt. (err.) II. Conch, iv. 193. 1853. Is Ancylus 



cyclostoma, Bgt. 

 — C. Cyprinoides, Gray. Ann. Phy. n. ser. ix. 136. 1825. Is Velo- 



rita C yprinoides, Gray. 



3S. C. C y p r i n o i d e s, Quoy. Yoy. Astrol. 3, 513, pi. 82, f. 1-3. 1834. 

 Hab- N. Guinea. 



— C. d e b i 1 i s, Gld. Bost. Proc. 3, 293. 1850. Is Corbicula d e b 11 i s, 

 Prime. 



39. C. d e c i p i e n s, Desh. Proc. Zool. xxii. 17. 1854. 

 Hab. ? 



40. C. d e n s a t a, Conrad. Ac. N. S. Phil. Proc. i. 324. 1845. 



Cyclas densata, d'Orb. Prod. 3, 109. 1852. 



Hab. North America, (fossil.) 



— C. deperdita, Desh. Coq. foss. Par. 1, 118, pi. 19, f. 14, 15. 1824. 

 Is Corbicula deperdita, Desh. 



— C. deperdita, Morris, Cat. Brit. foss. 86. 1843. Is Corbicula B r i- 

 t a n n i c a, Desh. 



— C. depress a, Lam. Lam. v. 553. 1818. Encycl. pi. 302, f. 3. Is As- 

 tarte borealis, Gray. 



— C. depress a, Desh. Diet, class, h. u. v. 290. 1824. Is Cyrena c o m- 

 p r e s s a, Desh. 



~C. Deshayesii, Hebert. Bull. Soc. Geol. Fr. 2d ser. v. 401, f. a', b'. 

 1848. Is Corbicula Deshayesii, Prime. 



— C. D e shay es i an us, Bgt. (err.) II. Conch, iv. 183. 1853. Is An- 

 cylus Deshayesianus, Bgt. 



41. C. difficilis, Desh. Inv. basin. Par. 513, pi. 37, f. 3-5. 1857. 

 Hab. France, (fossil.) 



42. C. d i s p a r, Koch & Dkr. Oolit. 60, pi. vii. f. 6, a. b. 1837. 

 Hab. Germany, (fossil.) 



43. C. d i s t i n c t a, Desh. Inv. Par. 492, pi. 35, f. 7-9. 1857. 

 Hab. France, (fossil.) 



I860.] 




278 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



44. C. d i V a r i c a t a, Desh. Proc. Zool. xxii. 17, 1854. 

 Hab. N. Guinea. 



— C. douacialis, Desh. Diet, class h. n. v. 290. 1824. Is Corbicula 



cuneiformis, Prime. 

 — C. d ou a cif r mis, Anton. Verz. 1839. Is Corbicula ctineiformis, 



Prime. 



45. C. d u a c i n a, Dkr. Wald. 162. 1854. 

 Hab. Germany, (fossil.) 



46. C. d r s a t a, Dkr. Wald. 155. 1834. 

 Hab. Germany, (fossil.) 



46a C. Dulchurchiensis ? 

 Hab. England, (fossil.) 



47. C. D u m a s i i, de Serres. Bull. Sci. 328. 1827. 

 Hab. France, (fossil.) 



48. C. D u t 6 m p 1 i i, Desh. Inv. Par. 493, pi. 34, f. 43, 44. 1857. 

 Hab. France, (fossil.) 



49. C. d u r a, Desh. Proc. Zool. xxii. 20. 1854. 

 Hab.? 



50. G. e 1 e g a n s, Dkr. Wald. 166. 1834. 

 Hab, Germany, (fossil.) 



51. C. e 1 1 i p t i c a, Dkr. Wald. 148. 1834. 

 Hab. Germany, (fossil.) 



— G. elongata, Roem. Oolit. i. 117, t. ix. f. 11. 1826. Is Cyrena M a n- 

 t e 1 1 i, Dkr. 



52. C. e 1 n g a t a, Dkr. Weald. 155. 1846. 



Cyclas elongata, Sowb. Trans. Geol. Soc.2dser. i7. 346, pi. 21, f. 9. 1836. 

 Hab. Europe, (fossil.) 



53. C. e r e b e a, Pr. 



Mactra erebea, Brongt. Mem. Vicent. 81, pi. v. f. 8. 1823. 

 Cyclas erebea, d'Orb. Prod. 2, 323. 1850. 

 Hab. Europe, (fossil.) 



54. C. Essingtonensis, Desh. Proc. Zool. xxii. 19. 

 Hab. Port Essington. 



— C. Euphratica, Bronn. Syst. Urwelt. pi. 4, f. 10. Is Corbicula f I u- 



m i n a 1 i s, Adams. 

 — C. excavata, Rcem. i. 117, pi. ix. f. 6. 1835. Is Cyrena c a u d a t a. 



Picemer. 



55. C. eximia, Dkr. Zeit. Malak. 51. 1852. Pf. Nov. Conch. 8 livr. 88. 



pi. xxiv. 1857. 

 Cyrena irnpressa, Desh. Proc. Zool. xxii. 18. 1854. 

 Batissa irnpressa, Adams. Rec. gen. 2, 448. 1858. 

 Hab. Java. 



56. C. expansa, Monss. Moll. Java, 89, pi. 14. 1849. 

 Hab. Java. 



57. C. fab ace a, Roem. Oolit. 2, 40, pi. 19, f. 16. 

 Hab. Germany, (fossil.) 



58. C. f a b u 1 i n a, Desh. Inv. Par. 506, pi. 37, f. 13-15. 1857. 

 Hab. France, (fossil.) 



59. C. fall ax, Desh. Proc. Zool. xxii. 15. 1854. 

 Hab. Australia. 



[June. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 279 



60. C. C. fascia t a, Roem. Oolit. 1, 116, pi. ix. f. 10. 1835. 



Cijclasfasciata, Gldf. Petr. Germ. 2, 232, pi. 147, f. 10. 1834-40. 

 Kab. Germany, (fossil.) 



61. C. Faujigasii, Desh. Encycl. 2, 51. 1830. 



Venus de mayeuce, Faujas. Ann. Mus. 8, 379, pi. 58, f. 9, 10. 1806. 



Cirena Icevigata, Gldf. Petr. Germ. 2, 224, pi. 149, f. 1. 1834-iO. 



Cyrena poUta, Gldf. Loc. sub. cit. 2, 224, pi. 149, f. 2. 1834-40. 



Cyclas Faujasii, d'Orb. Prod. 3, 109. 1852. 

 Hab. Europe, (fossil.) 



— C. Ferrussaci, Math. Math. Cat. Metb 149, pi. xiv. f. 14, 15. 1852. 

 Is Corbicula Ferrussaci, Prime. 



62. C. f lav a, Prime. Proc. Zool. xxviii. 1860. 

 Hab. ? 



63. C. F 1 r i d a n a, Conrad. Ac. N. S. Phil. Proc. 3, 23, pi. i. f. 1. 1846. 

 Hab. Florida. 



— C. fluminalis, Bgt. Cat. Sauley 79. 1853. Is Corbicula flumi- 



n a 1 i s, Adams. 

 — C. flu mi n e a. Lam. Lam. v. 553. 1818. Is Corbicula fl u m i n e a, 



Adams. 

 — C. fluviatilis, Phil. Abb. 3,77, pL i. f. 5. 1846. Is Corbicula 



Manillensis, Prime. 



64. C. F o n t a i n e i i, Phil. Zeit. Malak. 8, 70. 1851. 



Cyclas Fontaineii, d'Orb. Voy. Amer. 569, pi. 83, f. 14, 15. 1844. 

 Hab. S. America. 



— C. Forbesii, Desh. Inv. Par. 510, pi. 37, f. 24-27. 1857. Is Cor- 

 bicula Forbesii, Deshayes. 



65. C. f rt i s. Prime. Proc. Zool. xxviii. 1860. 

 Hab. Equador. 



66. C. f s s u 1 a t a, Cornuel. Mem. Soc. Geol. Ft. iv. 286, pi. 15, f. 1, a-d, 



1840. 

 Cyclas fossulata, d'Orb. Prod. 2, 60. 1850. 

 Hab. France, (fossil.) 



67. C. frag ills, Desh. Proc. Zool. xxviii. 1860. 

 Hab. ? 



— C. f u s c a t a , Lam. Lam. v. 552. 1818. Is Corbicula fl u m i n a 1 i s, 

 Adams. 



68. C. G a 1 a t h e a, Rhdt. Morch's Kierulf 32, pi 2. 1850. 



Cyrena Zeylanica var. major, Mous. .Java 89, pi. 13. 1849. 

 Hab. Nicobar Islands. 



69. C. G a 1 1 i c a n a, Pr. 



Cyrena compta, Desh. (preoc.) Invt. Par. 491, pi. 35, f. 1-3, pi. 36, 



f. 19, 20. 1857. 

 Hab. France, (fossil.) 

 — C. Gaudichaudi, VaL (err.) Mag. Zool. pi. 119, f. 2. 1838. Is Velo- 



rita Cyprinoides, Gray. 

 — C. Gauritziana, Kr. In litt. 1848. Is Corbicula A f r i c a n a, Adams, 



70. C. G e m m e 1 1 a r i, Phil. Sicil. 1, 39, pi. iv. f. 3. 1836. 

 Hab. Europe, (fossil.) 



71. C. G e s 1 i n i, Desh. Encycl. 2, 52. 1830. 



Cyclas Geslini, d'Orb. Prod. 3, 109. 1852. 

 Hab. Europe, (fossil.) 



72. C. g i b b o s a, DuKr. Wald. 157. 1834. 

 Hab. Germany, (fossil.) 



I860.] 




280 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



73. C. gl b s a, Math. Cat. Meth. 148, pi. xiv. f. 12, 13. 1842. 



Cijclas globo'a, d'Orb. Prod. 3, 19. 1852. 

 Hab. France, (fossil.) 



— C. globulus, Jonas. MSS. Is Corbicula c u n e a t a, Adams. 

 — C. Gravesii, Desb. Coq. foss. Par. 2, 810. 1824. Is Corbicula 



Gravesii, Desb. 

 — C. Gravi, Desb. Coq. foss. Par. 1, 120, pi. 19, f. 3, 4. Is Corbicula 

 Gravesii, Desb. 



74. C. H e b e r t i i, Desb. Invt. Par. 516, pi. 36, f. 4-6. 1857. 

 Hab. France, (fossil.) 



75. C. h e t e r o d o n t a, Desb. Invt. Par. 518, pi. 34, f. 13-15. 1857- 

 Hab. France, (fossil.) 



76. C. H e y s i i, Dkr. Wiild. 147. 1834. 

 Hab. Germany, (fossil.) 



— C. impress a, Desb. Proc. Zool. xxii. 18. 1854. Is Cyrena e x c i n i a, 

 Dkr. 



77. C. inc ert a, Desb. Proc. Zool. xxii. 19. 1854. 

 Hab. ? 



77a C. inc mp t a, Desb. Invt. Par. 1857. 

 Hab. France, (fossil.) 



78. C. inf lata, Phil. Zeit. Malak, 71. 1851. 

 Hab. S. America. 



— C. i n f 1 a t a, Desb. (preoc) Proc. Zool. xxii. 23. 1854. Is Cyrena P a n a- 

 m e n s i s, Pr. 



79. C. inquinata, Desb. Proc. Zool. xxii. 15. 1854. 

 Hab. China. 



80. C. ins ignis, Desb. Proc. Zool. xxii. 20. 1854. 

 Hab. California. 



81. C. intermedia, Desb. Mellev. Terr. Tert. Par. 35, pi. 2, f. 5. 6. 1843. 



Ci/clas intermedia, d'Orb. Prod. 2, 304. 1850. 

 Hab. France, (fossil.) 



— C. intermedia, Meek & Hayden. Ac. N. S. Phil. Proc. 8, 116. 1856. 

 Is Cyrena Nebrascensis, M. &H. 



82. C. is o c a r d i a, Dkr. "Willd. 151. 1854. 

 Hab. Germany, (fossil.) 



83. C. i s o c a r d i i d e s, Desb. Proc. Zool. xxii. 22. 1854. 

 Hab. S. America. 



84. C. J am e s n i i, Forbes. Geol. 11. vii. HI, pi. v. f. 7, 8. 1851. 

 Hab. England, (fossil.) 



— C. Jayensis, Lea. Trans. Amer. Phil. Soc. v. 108, pi. 17, f. 52. 1832. 

 Is Batissa Jayensis, Adams. 



85. C. Juk e s i i, Desb. Proc. Zool. xxii. 19. 1854. 

 Hab. Australia. 



— C. Ker an dr en ii, Lesson. Voy. Coq. 2, 429, pi. xi. f. 3. 1829. Is Ba- 

 tissa Keraudrenii. 



86. C. Koch ii, Dkr. Wald. 159. 1834. 

 Hab. Germany, (fossil.) 



— C. 1 seviga ta, Gldf. Petr. Germ. 2, 224, pi. 149, f. 1, a. b. 1834-40. Is 

 Cyrena F a u j a s i i, Desb. 



87. C. 1 se V i s, Pr. 

 Hab. Borneo. 



[June, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 281 



88. C. L a m b e r t i, Desh. Invt. Par. 495, pi. 38, f. 9, 10. 1857. 

 Hab. France, (fossil.) 



— C. Lar gill ierti, Phil. Zeit. Malak. 163. 1844. Is Corbicula L a r- 

 gillierti, Pr. 



89. C, lato-ovata, Eoemer. Oolit. i. 116, pi. 9, f. 4. 1835. 



Venuliles simillimus, Schl. Petr. 200, 1820. 

 Venuliles douacilialis, Schl.. In Collect. 

 Hab. Germany, (fossil.) 



90. C. 1 a u t a, Desh. Proc. Zool. xxii. 15, 1854. 

 Hab.? 



91. C. lentiformis, Roemer. Oolit. 2, 41, pi. 19, f. 9. 

 Hab. Germany, (fossil.) 



— C. limosa, Gray. Ann. Phy. n. ser. ix. 137. 1835. Is Corbicula 1 i- 

 m s a, Pr. 



92. C. 1 u n u 1 a t a, Desh. Invt. Par. 495, pi. 34, f. 16-19. 1857. 

 Hab. France, (fossil.) 



93. C. Mac Cull ochii, Forbes. Geol. II. vii. 112, pi. v. f. 10, a, b. 1851. 

 Hab. England, (fossil.) 



94. C. m a c t r 32 f o r m i s, Pr. 



Cyrena mactroides, Desh. (preoc.) Proc. Zool. xxii. 17. 1854. 

 Hab.? 



95. C. mac troides, Roemer. Oolit. i. 116, pi. ix. f. 2. 1835. 

 Hab. Germany, (fossil.) 



— C. mactroides, Desh. Proc. Zool. xxii. 17. 1854. Is Cyrena m a c- 

 t r ae f r m i s, Pr. 



96. C. m aj r, Morris. Cat. Brit. Foss. 200. 1854 



Cyelas major, Sowb. Trans. Geol. 2d ser. W. 176, 346, pi. xxi. f. 13. 1836. 

 Hab. England, (fossil.) 



97. C. maj use ula, Roemer. Oolit. i. 117, pi. ix. f. 1-3. 1835. 



Cyelas majuscula, Glf. Petr. Germ. 2, 232, pi. 147, f. 6, a-c. 1834-40. 

 Hab. Europe, (fossil.) 



— C. M a n i 1 1 e n s i s, Phil. Zeit. Malak. 163. 1844. Is Corbicula M a n i 1- 

 1 e n s i s, Pr. 



98. C. M a n t e 1 1 i, Dkr. Weald, 42, pi. 13, f. 2. 1846. 



Cyrena elongaia, Roemer. Oolit i. 117, pi. ix. f. 11. 1835. 



Cyelas angulata, Sowb. Trans. Geol. 2d ser. iv. 176, 346, pi. xxi. f. 12. 



1836. 

 Cyelas carinata, Glf. Petr. Germ. 2, 232, pi. 147, f. 9, a-c. 1834-'40. 

 Cyrena angulata, Morris. Brit. Foss. 199. 1854. 

 Hab. Europe, (fossil.) 



99. C. m ar i t i m a, C. B. Adams. Ann. N. Y. Lye. v. 499. 1852. 

 Hab. Panama. 



— C. media, Fitton. Ann. Phy. n. ser. viii. 376. 1824. Is Corbicula m e- 

 d i a, Pr. 



100. C. m e m b r a n a c e a, Fitton. Ann. Phy. n. ser. 8, 176. 1824. 



Cyelas membranaeea, Sowb. Min. Conch, vi. 52, pi. 527, f. 3. 1829. 

 Cyrena membranaeea, Sowb. Morris. Brit. Foss. 200. 1854. 

 Hab. England, (fossil.) 



101. C. M e n k e i i, Dkr. D. et M. Paleont. 1, 40, pi. vi. f. 23-25. 1846. 



Venus Menkeii, Dkr, In litt. 

 Hab. Germany, (fossil.) 



I860.] 18 




2S2 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



02. C. Mexicana, Sowb. Zool. II. (Sowb. et Brod.) 364. 1829. 

 CyTena altilis, Gld. Bost. II. vi. 400, pi. xvi. f. 5. 1852. 

 Hab. N. America. 



103. C. minuta, Desh. Invt. Par. 507, pi. 35, f. 10-12. 1857. 

 Hab. France, (fossil.) 



— C. mixta, Desh. Invt. Par. 1857. Is Corbicula mixta, Desh. 

 — C. Moquinianus, Bgt. (err.) II. Conch, iv. 1853. IsAncylusMo- 

 quinianus, Bgt. 



104. C. Moreauensis, Meek & Hayden. Ac. N. S. Phil. Proc. viii. 115. 



1856. 

 Hab. N. America, (fossil.) 



105. C. multidentata, Auton. Conch. 13. 1839. 

 Hab. Europe, (fossil.) 



— C. Murchisonii, Dkr. Weald. 30, pi. x. f. 2-5. 1846. Is Cyrena 

 rotunda, Dkr. 



106. C. Nebrascensis, M. &H. 



Cyrena intermedia, Meek & Hayden, (preoc.) Ac. N. S. Phil. Proc. viii. 



116. 1856. 

 Hab. N. America, (fossil.) 

 — C. nit ens, Phil. Zeit. Malak. 163. 1844. Is Corbicula nit ens, 



Adams. 



107. C. nit id a, Desh. Proc. Zool. xxii. 23. 1854. 

 Hab.? 



108. C. nitidula, Desh. Proc. Zool. xxii. 23. 1854. 

 H.ib. ? 



109. C. n o b i 1 i s , Desh. Invt. Par. 490, pi. 36, f. 14, 15, 1857. 

 Hab. France, (fossil.) 



110. C. notabilis, Desh. Proc. Zool. xxii. 21. 1854. 

 Hab. Peru. 



HI. C. n u c u 1 aef o rm i s, Roemer. Oolit. 1, 118, pi. ix. f. 13. 1835. 

 Hab. Germany, (fossil.) 



— C. obesa, Hinds. Ann. Mag. n. h. n. ser. x. 81. 1842. Is Batissa 

 b e s a , Adams. 



112. C. obliqna, Desh. Diet. Class, h. n. v. 290. 1824. 

 Hab. France, (fossil.) 



113. C. oblonga, Quoy. Voy. Astrol. 3, 517, pi. 82, f. 6-8. 1834. 

 Hab. Vanikoro. 



— C. obovata, Desh. Encycl. 2. 52. 1830. Is Corbicula o b o v a t a , 

 Desh, 



114. C. obscura, Pr. Proc. Zool. xxviii. 1860. 

 Hab. S. America. 



115. C. b t u s a , Rcemer. Oolit. 1, 115, pi. ix. f. 76. 1835, 

 Hab. Germany, (fossil.) 



— 0. obtusa, Forbes, Rec. Scie. 2, pi, 3, f. 4. Is Cyrena A nglicana, 

 Pr. 



116. C. occidentalis. Meek & Hayden. Ac. N. S, Phil. Proc. viii. 118. 



1856. 

 Hab. N. America, (fossil.) 



117. C. olivacea, Carp. In litt. 

 Hab. N. America. 



[June, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 283 



118. C. orb i cularis, Roemer. Oolit. 1, 115, pi. ix. f. 8. 1835. 



Cyclas orbicularis, Glf. Petr. Germ. 2, 231, pi. 147. f. 5. 1834-40. 



Hab. Germany, (fossil.) 



— C. orbicularis, Desh. Mellev. Terr. Tert. 35, pi. 2, f. 3, 4. 1843. 

 is Corbicula orbicularis, Prime. 



— C. orientalis, Lam. Lam. v. 552. 1818. Is Corbicula o r i e n t a - 

 lis, Adams. 



— C. ovalina, Desh. lavt. Par. 505. pL 36, f. 16-18. 1867. Is Corbi- 

 cula p a rv a. Prime. 



119. C. ovalis, Dkr. Wald. 158. 1834. 

 Hab. Germany, (fossil.) 



120. C. oviform is, Desh. Proc Zool. xxii. 16. 1854. 

 Hab. Philippines. 



121. C. pallida, Desh. Proc. Zool. xxii. 17. 1854. 

 Hab.? 



122. C. Panamensis, Pr. 



Ci/rena inflata, Desh. (preoc.) Proc. Zool. xxii. 23. 1854. 

 Hab. Panama. 

 — C. Panormitana, Bivon. Is Corbicula Panormitana, Adams. 



123. C. Papua, Lesson. Mag. Zool. pi. xi. 1832. 

 Hab. Waigou. 



— C. Paranacensis, d'Orb. Mag, Zool. 44. 1835. Is Corbicula 

 Paranacensis, Adams. 



124. C. parva, Morris. Brit. Foss. 200. 1854. 



Cyclas parva, Sowb. Geol. Trans. 2d ser. iv. 345, pi. 21, f. 7. 1836. 

 Hab. England, (fossil.) 



125. C. Pa no rmi tan a, Roemer. Oolit. 1, 115, pi. ix. f. 9. 1835. 

 Hab. Germany, (fossil.) 



126. C. p a r V u 1 a , Desh. Invt. Par. 509, pi. 37, f. 6-8. 1857. 

 Hab. France, (fossil.) 



— C. Peruviana, Desh. Is Cyrena a n o raal a , Desh. 

 — C. Petitianus, Bgt. II. Conch, iv. 1853. Is Ancylus Petiti- 

 anus, Bgt. 



127. C. Philippinarum, Hanley. Proc. Zool. xii. 159. 1844. Wood'.s 



Suppl. Cat. pi. xiv. f. 60. 

 Hab. Philippines. 

 — C. pisum, Desh. Coq. Foss. Par. 1, 117, pi. 19, f. 10-13. 1824. Is 



Corbicula pisum, Desh. 



128. C. pi ace n s, Hanley. Proc. Zool. xii. 160, 1844. Wood's Suppl. Cat. 



pi. xiv. f. 52. 

 Hab. N. America. 



129. C. placid a, Desh. Proc. Zool. xxii. 19. 1854. 

 Hab.? 



130. C. planulata, Desh. Invt. Par. 501, pi. 35, f. 16-18. 1857. 

 Hab. France, (fossil.) 



— C. polita, Glf. Petr. Germ. 2, 224, pi. 149, f. 2. 1834-40. Is Cyrena 

 Fauj asi i, Desh. 



131. C. ponder osa, Pr. Ac. N. S. Phil. Proc. 1860. 

 Hab. Philippines. 



132. C. prona, Dkr. Wiild. 166. 1834. 

 Hab. Germany, (fossil.) 



I860.] 




284 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



133. C. Proserpina, Pr. 



Vemis Proserpina, Brongt. Mem. Viceut. 81, pi. v. f. 7. 1823. 

 Cyclas Proserpina, d'Orb. Prod. 2, 323. 1850. 

 Hab. Europe, (fossil.) 



134. C. psmacola, Desh. Invt. Par. 505, pi. 35, f. 4-6. 1857. 

 Hab. France, (fossil.) 



— C. pule h el la, Mous. Moll. Java, 88, pi. xv. f. 4. 1849. Is Corbicula 

 pulchella, Adams. 



135. C. p ulchra, Morris. Brit. Foss. 86. 1843. 



Cyclas pulcher, Sowb. Min. Conch, vi. 51, pi. 527. f. 1. 1829. 

 Hab. England, (fossil.) 



— C. p ulchra, Wright. Ann. n. h. Is Cyrena Wr i g h t i i , Forbes. 

 — C. pull at a, Phil. Abb. 2, 110. 1849. Is Corbicula pullata, 



Adams. 

 — C. purpurea, Lea. Amer. II. xlii. 106, pi. 1, f. 1. 1842. Is Yenus 



gemma, Totten. 

 — C. pusilla. Parr. Phil. Abb. 2, 78, pi. 1. f. 7. 1846. Is Corbicula p u- 



s i 1 1 a , Adams. 



136. C. radiata, Hanley. Proc. Zool. xii. 159. 1844. 



Cyrena solida, Phil. Abb. 5, 78, pi. 1, f. 9. 1846. 

 Hab. Central America. 

 — C. radiata. Parr. Phil. Abb. 2, 78, pi. 1, f. 8. 1846. Is Corbicula 



radiata, Adams. 

 — C. Raymondi, Bgt. (err.) II. Conch, iv. 1853. Is Ancylus R a y- 

 m n d i , Bgt. 



137. C. Recluzi, Prime. 



Cyrena cordiformis, Recluz. II. Conch, iv. 251, pi. vii. f. 9. 1853. 

 Hab. ? 



— C. recurvata, Val. Mag. Zool. pi. 117, f. 2. 1838. Is Velorita Cy- 

 prinoides, Gray. 



138. C. regulata, Gassies. II. Conch, vii. 372. 1858. 

 Hab. N. California. 



139. C. Rigaultii, Desh. Invt. Par. 494, pi. 36, f. 12, 13. 1857. 

 Hab. France, (fossil.) 



— C. rivalis, V. d. Busch. Phil. Abb. 3, 110, pi. 3, f. 5. 1849. Is Cor- 

 bicula rival is, Adams. 



140. C. roborata, Desh. Invt. Par. 499, pi. 38, f. 15, 16. 1857. 

 Hab. France, (fossil.) 



— C. Roemerii, Dkr. Wald. 41. 1834. Is Cyrena t r igo n a , Roemer. 



141. C. rotunda, Dkr. Wald. 145. 1834. 



Cyrena Murchisoni, Dkr. Weald. 30, pi. x. f. 25. 1846. 

 Hab. Germany, (fossil.) 

 — C. rotundata, Lea. Trans. Amer. Phil. Soc. v. pi. 17, f. 51,107. 



1832. Is Batissa r o t u n da t a , Adams. 

 — C. Rouyana, Bgt. Sph. Fr. 51. 1854. Is Corbicula Rouyana, 



Prime. 



142. C. Saincenyensis, Desh. Invt. Par. 496. pi. 38, f. 7, 8. 1857. 

 Hab. France, (fossil ) 



43. C. salmaci da, Morelet. Test. Cub. pt. 2d, 26. 1851. 

 Hab. Central America. 

 — C. semi striata, Desh. Encycl. 2,52. 1830. Is Corbicula semi- 



striata, Desh. 

 —C. si mi lis, Gray. Grifif. Cuv. pi. 20, f. 2. 1834. Is Corbicula W o o d- 

 i an a, Adams. 



[June, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 285 



144. C. si mil is, Desh. Proc. Zool. xxii. 16. 1854. 

 Hab. Manilla. 



145. C. singularis, Desh. Invt. Par. 508, pi. 35, f. 13—15. 1857. 

 Hab. France, (fossil.) 



146. C. sinuosa, Desh. Pi-oc. Zool. xxii. 18. 1854. 



Cyrena Zeilanica, Mouss. Java, 89, pi. xii. 1849. 

 Hab. Java. 



147. C. Siren a, Pr. 



Mactra Sirena, Brongt. Mem. Vicent. 81, pi. v. f. 10. 1823. 



Cyrena Bronyniartii, Bast. Mem. S. N. Par. 2, 84. 1825. 



C. Sowerbyi, Bast. Loc. sub. cit. 2, 84, pi. vi. f. 6. 1825. 



Cyclas Sirena, d'Orb. Prod. 2, 320. 1850. 



C. Bronyniarlu, d'Orb. Loc. sub. cit. 3, 109. 1852. 

 Hab. France, (fossil.) 



— C. spissa, Desh. Coq. Foss. Par. 1, p. 9, pi. 18, f. 14, 15. 1824. Ls 

 Corbicula crass a, Desh. 



148. C. solida, Dkr. Wiild. 145. 1834. 

 Hab. Germany, (fossil.) 



—C. solida, Phil. Abb. 2, 78, pi. 1, f. 9. 1846. " Is Cjrena r a d i a t a 

 Hanley. 



149. C. sordid a, Hanley. Proc. Zool. xii. 1844. Wood's Suppl. pi. xiv. 



f. 51. 

 Hab. N. America. 



150. C. striata, Galleoti. Index Paleont. 1, 391. 1848 — 9. 

 Hab. Europe, (fossil.) 



151. C. stria tula, Muaster. Glf. Petr. Germ. 2, 225, pi. 149, f. 3. 1834 



—40. 

 Hab. Germany, (fossil.) 



152. C. subangulata, Les. Grat. Moll. Fr. 52. 1855. 

 Hab. France, (fossil.J 



— C. subarata, Br. Leth. Gaog. 2, 958, pi. 38, f. 2. 1835-8. Is Corbi- 

 cula semistriata, Desh. 



153. C. sub cord ata, Dkr. Wald. 154. 1834. 

 Hab. Germany, (fossil.) 



154. C. s u b 1 ae V i s , Rosmer. Oolit. 1, 116, pi. xi. f. 5. 1835. 



Cyclas sublavis, Glf. Petr. 2, 232, pi. 147, f. 7. 1834—40. 

 Hab. Germany, (fossil.) 



155. C. sub lob ata, Desh. Proc. Zool. xxii. 18. 1854. 

 Hab. ? 



156. C. s ub o rb ic ul aris , V. d. Busch. Phil. Abb. 3, 77, pi. 2, f. 1. 184P. 

 Hab. Manilla. 



— C. su b orbicularis, Desh. Invt. Par. 497, pi. 38, f. 11, 12. 1857. 

 Is Corbicula orbicularis, Pr. 



157. C. subquadrata, Morris. Brit. Foss. 200. 1854. 



Cyclas subquadrata, Sowb. Geol. Trans. 2d ser. iv. 177, 345, pi. xxi. f. 8. 



1836. 

 Hab. England, (fossil.) 

 — C. subquadrata, Desh. Proc. Zool. xxii. 21. 1854. Is Cyrena 



C a 1 if o r n i e n s i s , Pr. 

 — C. subradiata, Kurr. Is Corbicula subradiata, Pr. 



158. C. sulcata, Hoenighaus. Ihrb. 456. 1850. 

 Hab. Europe, (fossil.) 



I860.] 19 




286 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



159. C. Sumatraensis, Sowb. Gen. of Shells, 1. Phil. Abb. 3, 109, pi. 3, 



f. 4. 1849. 

 Hab. Sumatra. 



— C. tellinella, Fer. Hist. Moll. f. 1. Is Corbicula tel 1 in ell a , Pr. 

 — C. tell i n oi dea, Bouillet. Cat. Cut. 156. 1836. Is Corbicula 



tellinoidea, Pr. 



160. C. t ellinoi d es, Defr. Cuv. Foss. 2, 263. 1821—3. 

 Hab. Europe, (fossil.) 



— C. tenebrosa. Hinds. Ann. n. h. n. ser. x. 21. 1842. Is Batissa 

 tenebrosa, Adams. 



161. C. tenuis, Dkr. Wald. 158. 1834. 

 Hab. Germany, (fossil.) 



162. C. tetragon a, Desh. Invt. Par. 502, pi. 34, f. 20— 22. 1857. 

 Hab. France, (fossil.) 



163. C. transversa, Forbes. Rec. Scie. 2, pi. 3, f. 6. 

 Hab. England, (fossil.) 



164. C. triangula, V. d. Busch. Phil. Abb. 3, 78, pi. 2. f. 3. 1849. 



Cyrena triangularis, Metcalf. Proc. Zool. 19, 74. 1851. 

 Hab. Borneo. 

 — C. triangularis, Metcalf. Proc. Zool. xix. 74. 1851. Is Cyrena 



triangula, v. d. Busch. 

 —C. trig on a, Desh, Coq. Foss. Par. 1, 118. pi. 19, f. 16, 17. 1824. Is 



Corbicula triangula, Pr. 



165. C. trigona, Roemer. Oolit. 1, 116, pi. ix. f, 7. 1835. 



Cyclas trigona, Glf. Petr. 2, 233, pi. 147, f. 11. 1836—40. 

 Cyrena Eoemeri, Dkr. Wald. 41. 1834. 

 Hab. Germany, (fossil.) 

 — C. trigoneUa, Lam. Lam. v. 552. 1818. Is Corbicula t r i g o n - 



e 1 1 a , Pr. 

 — C. trigonula, Wood. Ann. Mag. n. h. vii. 275, f. 45. 1841. Is 



Corbicula Duchastelli, Syst. 

 ^C. truncata, Lam. Lam. v. 553. . 1818. Is Corbicula truncata, 

 Pr. 



166. C, t u m i da, Pr. 



Cyrena angulaia, Desh, Proc. Zool. xxii. 22. 1854. 

 Hab.? 



167. C. t u r g i d a , Lea. Amer. Phil. Soc. v. 109. pi. 18, f. 53. 1832. 

 Hab.? 



168. C. umbonata, Auton. Conch. 13. 1839. 

 Hab. Europe, (fossil.) 



169. C. u ni oni d e s, Dkr. Wald, 150. 1834. 

 Hab. Germany, (fossil.) 



170. C. unioniformis, Desh. Invt. Par. 503, pi. 38, f. 5, 6. 1857. 

 Hab. France, (fossil.) 



171. C. Vanikorensis, Quoy. Voy, Astrol. 3, 515, pi. 82, f. 4, 5. 1834, 

 Hab. Vanikoro. 



— C. Vapincana, Bgt. Sph. Pr. 51. 1854. Is Corbicula Vapin- 



c a n a , Prime. 

 — C. variegata, d'Orb. Mag. Zool. 44. 1835. Is Corbicula v a r i - 



e g a t a , Adams. 

 — C. vene ri for mis, Desh. Invt. Par. 499, pL 38, f. 1, 1. 1857. Is 



Corbicula veneriformis, Desh. 



[June, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 287 



172. C. ventricosa, Desh. Proc. Zool, xxii. 16. 1854. 

 Hab. Philippines. 



173. C. venulina, Dkr. W:ild. 155. 1834. 

 Hab, Germany, (fossil.) 



— 0. violacea, Lam. Lam, v. 553, 1818. Is Batissa violacea, 



Adams, 

 — C. Woodiana, Lea. Trans. Amer. Phil, Soc, v. 110, pi, 18, f. 55. 

 1832, Is Corbicula Woodiana, Adams. 



174. C. W r i g h t i i , Forbes. Rec. Sci. 2, pi. iv. f. 4. 



Cyrena pulchra, Wright, Ann. n. h. 

 Hab. England, (fossil.) 



175. C. Zeylanica, Lam. Lam. v. 1818, Delessert, pi. vii. 1841. 



Venus Ceylonica, Chemn, vi. 333, pi. 32, f, 336. 1769. 

 V, coaxans, Gml. 3278, f. 336. 1788. 

 Cyclas Zeylanica, Lam. Ann, Mus. vii, 420. 1806. 

 Hab. Ceylon. 



176. C, Z immermannii, Dkr. Wald. 151, 1834. 

 Hab. Germany, (fossil.) 



Sph^ridm, Scopoli. 



1. Sph. a c urn i n atu m, Pr. Ads. rec. gen. ii. 450. 1858. 



Cycl. acuminata, Pr. Bost. Proc. iv. 155. 1851. Loc. sup. cit. iv. 283. 



1852. Jay, Cat. iv. ed. 466. 1852. Bgt. Amen. 1, p. 7. 1853. 

 Cycl. albula, Pr. Bost. Proc. iv. 155. 1851. Jay, Cat. iv. ed. 466. 1852. 



Bgt. Amen. 1, p. 7. 1853. 

 Cycl. inornata, Pr. Bost. Proc. iv, 159. 1851. Loc. sup. cit. iv. 284. 



1852. Bgt. Amen. 1, p. 8, 1853. 

 Cycl. simplex, Pr. Bost. Proc. iv. 159. 1851, Loc. sup. cit. iv. 284. 1852. 

 Sph. albuhim, Pr. Ads. rec. gen. ii. 450. 1858. 

 Sph. inornatum, Pr. Loc. sup. cit. ii. 450. 1853. 

 Sph. simplex, Pr. Loc. sup. cit. ii. 450. 1858. 

 Hab. N. Amer. 

 —Cycl. a c u t a, Pf. Moll. Germ. 230. 1821. Is Pisid. H e n s 1 o wian u m, 



Jen. 

 — Cycl. (Physemoda) ae q u a 1 i s, Rafin. Bory St. Vt. An. gen. sci. phy. v. 319. 



1820. Is Pisid. V irgi n ic u m, Bgt. 

 — Cycl. se q uata, Sheph. Mss. 1840. Is Sph. r i v i c ol a, Lam. 

 — Cycl. alata. Leach. Moll. Gt. Brit. 291. 1852. Is Sph. corneum. Scop. 

 — Sph. al bulum, Pr. Ads. rec. gen. ii. 450. 1858. Is Sph. ac u m i n a- 



t u m, Pr. 

 — Cycl. alpina, d'Orb. Prod. 2, 381. 1850. Is Cyrena a 1 p i n a, Bgt. 

 — Cycl. al t i 1 i s, Aath. C. B. Adams, Cat. 29. 1847. Is Pisid. c o m p r e s- 

 s u m, Pr. 



2. Sph. altum, Dumt. & Mort. 



Cyclas alta, D. & M. Moll. Sav. 18,52. 

 Hab. Italy, (fossil.) 

 — Cycl. an mica, Turt. Conch. 250, pi. 2, f. 15. 1822. Is Pisidium an- 



m i c u m, Jen. 

 — Cycl. angulata, Sowb. Geol. Trans. 2d ser. iv. 176, 346, pi. xxi. f. 12. 



1836. Is Cyrena M a n t e 1 1 i, Dkr. 

 — Cycl. angu st id e n s, d'Orb. Prod. 2, 304, 1850. Is Cyrena a n g u s- 



t i d e n s, Desh. 

 — Cycl. a ntiqua, d'Orb. Prod. 2, 304. 1850. Is Cyrena a n t i q u a. Per. 

 — Cycl. a p pen d icu lata, Turt. Man. 15, pi. 1, f. 6. 1831. Is Pisidium 



Hen slowianum, Jen. 



I860.] 




288 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



3. Sph. Aquae S ext i ae, Sowb. Bgt. Sph. 45. 1854. 



Crjcl. aqucB-Sextice, Sowb. Edin. New Phil. II. vii, 296. 1829. 



Cycl. Garffasensis, Math. Cat. Meth. 147, pi. xiv. f. 6. 1842. 

 Hab. France, (fossil.) 



—Cjcl. Aquensis, Math. Cat. Meth. 148, pi. xiv. f. 8-9. 1342. Is Sph. 

 gibbosum, Sowb. 



4. Sph. arg e n t i nam, d'Orb. Ads. rec. gen. ii. 450. 1858. 



Oycl. arffentina, d'Orb. Mag. Zool. 1835. d'Orb. Voy. Amer. 568, 

 pi. S3, f. 5, 7. 1844. 

 Hab. S. Amer. 



5. Sph. aureuin,Pr. Ads. rec. gen. ii. 450. 1858. 



Cijcl. aurea, Pr. Best. Proc. iv. 159, 1851. Loc. sap. cit. iv. 288. 

 1852. Jay. Cat. iv, ed. 465, 1852. Bgt. Amen. 1, p. 7. 1853. 

 Hab, N, Amer, 



Cycl. Au s trails , Lam. Lam. v. 560. 1818. Is Corbicula Au s t r a - 

 lis, Desh. 



6. Sph. B a h i e n s e , Spix, 



Ct/cl. Bahiensis, Spix. Test. Braz. 32, pi, xxv. f. 5, 6. 1827. Mori- 



cand mem. coq. terr. fluv. Br. 31, Bgt, Amen. 1, p, 7, 53. 1853. 

 C. maculaia, Anton, Wiegm. Archiv, 284. 1837, Anton. Verz. 14, 



1839. 

 Musciilium Bahiense, Spix, Ads, rec. gen. ii. 451, 1858. 

 J/, maculatum, Anton. Loc, sup. cit. ii. 451, 1858. 

 Pisiiin Bahiense, Spix. Loc. sup. cit. ii. 560. 1858. 

 P. maculatum, Anton, Loc. sap. cit. ii, 560, 1858. 

 Hab. S, Amer, 



7. Sph. Boissyii, Desh. Inv. Paris, 521, pi. 34, f. 37, 39. 1857. 

 Hab, France, (fossil.) 



— Cycl. b o re al i s, Lam. Ann, Mus. vii. 421. 1806, Is a Venus. 



8, Sph. Bristovi, Forbes, 



Cycl. Bristovi, Forbes, Rec. Scie. 2, pi. 2, f. 3. Morris, Cat. Brit. Fos. 198. 

 1854, 

 Hab, England, (fossil.) 



9. Sph. Brochonianum, Bgt. Spn. 20, pi. 3, f. 1, 5. 1854. 



Cycl. Corsa, Charp. Mss. 

 Hab. France. 



10. Sph. Brongniarti, Koch et Dkr. 



Cycl. Brongniarti, K. et D. Oolit. 59, pi. vii. f. 4, a, b. 1837. 

 Hab. Europe, (fossil.) 

 — Cycl. Brongniarti, d'Orb. Prod. 3,109. 1852. Is Cyrena Siren a, 



Pr. 

 — Cycl, Brongniartina, Math. Cat. Meth. 145, pi. xiv. f. 2. 1842. H 

 Pisid. cuneatum, Petit. 



11. Sph. Buchi, Dkr. 



Cycl. Buchi, Dkr. Wiild. 167. 1834. 

 Hab. Germ, (fossil.) 



12. Sph. bulbosum, Anth. Ads. rec. gen. ii. 450. 1858. 



Cycl. bulbosa, Anth. Pr. Bost. Proc. iv. 283. 1852. 



Hab. N. Amer. 



— Sph. coeruleum, Pr. Ads. rec. gen. ii., 450. 1858. Is Sph. par tu- 

 rn e i u m , Say. 



—Cycl. calyculata, Drap. Hist. Moll. 130, pi. x. f. 13, 14. 1805. Is 

 Sph. 1 ac u str e , Fer. 



[June, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 289 



13. Sph. cap ease, Krauss. Ads. rec. gen. ii. 450. 1858. 



Cycl. capensis, Kr. Moll. S. Afr. 7, pi. 1, f. 6. 1848. 

 Hab. Africa. 



14. Sph. cardissum, Pr. Ads. rec. gen. ii. 450. 1858. 



Cycl. cardissa, Pr. Bost. Proc. iv. 160. 1851. Loc. sup. cit. iv. 277. 



1852. Bgt. Amen. 1, p. 7. 1853. Lewis, Bost. Proc v. 122. 1855. 

 Uab. N. Amer. 

 — Cjcl. carinata, Goldf. Petr. Germ. 2, 232, pi. 147, f. 9, a, c. 1834- 



40. Is Cyrena Man t e Hi , Dkr. 

 —Cycl. Caroliniana, Bosc. Hist. Coq. 3, 37, pi. 18, f. 4. 1802. I.^ 



Cyrena Caroliniensis, Lam . 

 — Cycl. Caroliniensis, Bosc. Fer. Cat. Meth. 84. 1807. Is Cyrena 



Caroliniensis, Lam. 

 — Sph. castaneum, Pr. Ads. rec. gen. ii. 450. 1858. Is Sph. f a b a I i s , 



Pr. 



15. Sph. castrense, Noulet. Coq. fos. etc., 16. 1857. 

 Hab. France, (fossil.) 



—Cycl. Chilensis, d'Orb. Voy. Amer. Sept. 568, pi. 83, f. 11, 13. 1844. 



Is Corbicula Chilensis, Pr. 

 — Cycl. Chinensis, Lam. Amer. Mus. vii. 421. 1806. Is Corbicula 



fluminea, Adams. 

 — Cycl. cinerea, Hani. Rec. spec. 1,91. 1843. Is Pisid. caserta- 



n u m , Bgt. 

 —Cycl. citrina, Brown. Conch. Gt. Brit. 132, pi. 39, f. 37. 1849. Is Sph. 



c or n eu m , Scop. 

 — Sph. citrinum, Normd. Cycl. Dept. Nord. 1. 1854. IsSph. Scal- 



d i a n u m , Norm. 



16. Sph. clandestinum, da Costa ? 



Cycl. clandestina, da Costa. Jay, Cat. iv. ed. 32. 1850. (Undescribed.) 

 Hab. S. Amer. 



17. Sph. concentricum, Bronn. 



Cycl. concentrica, Br. Ital. lert. gebild. 96. 1831. 

 Hab. Italy, (fossil.) 



18. Sph. concinnum, Sowb. Bgt. Sph. 43. 1854. 



Cycl. concinna, Sowb. Edin. N. Phil. II. vii. 297. 1829. 

 C. Galloprovincialis, Math, Cat. Meth. 146, pi. xiv. f. 34. 1842. 

 Hab. France, i fossil.) 

 — Sph. consobrinum, Fer. Ads. Rec. Gen. ii. 450. 1858. Is Sph. 



ovale, Fer. 

 — Cycl. consobrina. Call. Reeve, Conch. Nomencl. 29, 1845. Is Cor- 

 bicula orientalis, Adams. 

 — Sph. constrictum, Anth. Ads. Rec. Gen. ii. 450. 1858. Is Sph. 

 transversum. Say. 



19. Spb. Coquandianum, Math. Bgt. Sph. 46. 1854. 



Cycl, Coqua?idiana, Math. Cat. Meth. 147, pi. xiv. f. 7. 1842. 

 Hab. France, (fossil.) 



20. Sph. CO r n e u m , Scop. Intr. ad Hist. Nat. 397. 1777. 



Clama cinerea, d'Arg. Conch. 2d pt. 368, 374, pi. 31. 1742. 



Tellina cornea, Linn. Syst. Nat. (10th ed.) 1, 678. 1758. 



T. rivalis, Miill. Hist. Verm. 2, 202. 1774. 



Cycl. cornea, (pars.) Drap. tabl. Moll. 105, No. 1, var. b. 1801. 



Cardium corneum, Mont. Test. Biit. 86. 1803. 



C. amnicum, Pult. Cat. 31. 1803. 



Cycl. vivalis, Drap. Hist. Moll. 129, pi. x. f. 45. 1805. 



I860.] 




290 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Tellina communis, lilegerle. Berl. Mag. 1811. 



Cycl. nucleus, Stud. Mem. Soc. Helv. Sci. Nat. 1, p. 25, pi. 2, f. 23. 

 1837. 



C. lutea, Ziegler. Anton. Verg. 14. 1839. 



C. stagnicola, Leach. Mss. Brit. Mus. 1840. 



C. Leachii, Ziegler. Yilla. Cat. 44. 1841. 



C. fumida, Ziegler. Loc. Sup. Cit. 44. 1841. 



C. globosa, Megerle. Loc. Sup. Cit. 44. 1841. 



C. plumbeus, ?. Loc. Sup. Cit. 44. 1841. 



C.flavescens,UcGi\\v\. Moll. Scot. 208, 246. 1844. 



risidium cornea, Verany. Cat. Jur. 13. 1846. 



Ci/cladites corneiis, Kriig. Urwelt. 2, 469. Bronn. Paleont. 1, 372. 1848. 



Cycl. citrina, Brown. Coach. Grt. Brit. 132. pi. 39, f. 37. 1849. 



C. isocardioides. Norm. Dup. Moll. 668. 1852. 



C. aZaZa, Leach. Moll. Gt. Brit. 291. 1852. 



C.fossarura, Kryn. Bgt. Amen. 1, p. 8. 1853. 

 Hab. Europe. 



— Cycl. C r s a , Charp. Mss. Is Sph. Brochonianum, Bgt. 

 — Cycl. crassa, d'Orb. Prod. 2, 422. 1850. Is Cyrena crass a 

 Desh. 



21. Sph. Cr eplini , Dukr. Norm. Cycl. 3. 1854. 



Cycl. Creplini, Dukr. Zeit. Malak. 20. 1845. Muscul, (do.) Dkr. Ads. 



Rec. Gen. ii. 451. 1858. Pisum, (do.) Dkr. Loc. Sup. Cit. ii. 560. 



1858. 

 Hab. Europe. 



— Cycl. c r o c e a , Lewis, Bost. Proc. v. 25. 1854. Is Sph. s e c u r i s , Pr. 

 — Cycl. cuneata, Sowb. Edin. n. Phil. IL yii. 297. 1829. Is Pisid. 



cuneatum, Petit. 

 — CycL cuneiformis, Sowb. Min. Conch. 2, 140, pi. 162, f. 2, 3. 1818. 



Is Cyrena cuneiformis, Fer. 

 — Cycl. cycladiformis, d'Orb. Prod. 2, 381. 1850. Is Cyrena cy- 



cladiformis, Desh. 

 — Cycl. cyraenopsis, Val. Eacycl. pi. 301, f. 3. Is ?. 



22. Sph. Ddingoli, Bivona. Ann. N. Y. Lye. vii. 97. 1859. 



Cycl. DUngoli, Bivon. Coq. Palerm. 3. 1839. 

 Pisid. Ddingoli, Bivon. Villa. Cat. 44. 1841. 

 Hab. Sicily. 

 — Cycl. Denainvilliersi, Boissy. Bull. Soc. Geol, Fr. 2d ser. ir. 



178. 1846. Is Pisid. Denainvilliersi, Desh. 

 — Cycl. densata, d'Orb. Prod. 3,109. 1852. Is Cyrena densata, 

 Conrad. 



23. Sph. dentatum, Hald. Ads. Rec. Gen. ii. 450. 1858. 



Cycl. deniata, Hald. Ac. N. S. Phil. Proc. 1, 100. 1841. Pr. Bost 



Proc. iv. 250. 1852. 

 Hab. N. Amer. 

 — Cycl. deperdita. Lam. An. Mus. vii. 421. 1806. Is Corbicula de- 



p er d i t a , Desh. 

 — Cycl. depressa, Nyst. Coq. fos. Anv. 36, pi. v. f. 5, 6. Is Erycina 



depressa, Nyst. 

 —Sph. Deshayesianum, Bgt. Amen. i. p. 6. 1853. Is Spli. ovale, 



Fer. 

 — Sph. detruncatum, Pr. Ads. rec. gen. ii. 450. 1858. Is Sph. 



transversum, Say. 

 — Cycl. diaphana, Pr. Bost. II. vi. 367. 1852. IsSph. macul a t um , 



Morlt. 



[June, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 291 



— Sph. distortum, Pr. Ads. rec. gen. ii. 450. 1858. Is Sph. so 1 idu - 

 1 u m , Pr. 



— Sph. dubium, Say. Ads. rec. gen. ii. 450. 1858. Is Pisid. V i r g ini- 

 cum, Bgt. 



— Cycl. dubiosa, Say. Reeve's Conch. Nomen. 29. 1845. IsPisid. Vir- 

 gin icum, Bgt. 



—Cycl. duplicata, Pf. Moll. Germ. 230. 1821. Is Pisid. duplica- 

 tum, Pf. 



— Cycl. D upon tia, Per. Cat. 20. 1837. IsCyrenellaDupontia, Joan. 



24. Sph. eburneum, Anth. Ads. rec. gen. ii. 450. 1858. 



CycJ. eburnea, Anth. in Pr. Bost. Proc. iv. 279. 1852. 

 Hab. N. Amer. 



— Cycl. edentula, Say. New Harm. Dissem. 2, 356. 1829. Is Sph. 

 striatinum, Lam. 



25. Sph. egregium, Gould, (non Say.) Ads. rec. gen. ii. 450. 1858. 



Cycl. egregia, Gl. Bost. Proc. 3, 292. 1850. 

 Hab. Oceanica. 



—Sph. elegans, C. B., Ads. Ads. rec. gen. ii. 450. 1868. Is Sph. 

 rhonoboideum, Say. 



26. Sph. elevatum, Hald. Ads. rec. gen. ii. 450. 1853. 



Cycl. elevata, Hald. Ac. N. S. Phil. Proc. i. 53. 1841. DeKay, 224. 



1842. Pr. Bost. Proc. iv. 280. 1852. Bgt. Amen. i. p. 8. 1853. 

 Cycl. pallida, Charp. Mss. 1851. 

 Hab. N. Amer. 



— Cycl. elongata, Sowb. Gosl. trans, n. ser. iv. 345, pi. 21, f. 9. 1836. 

 Is Cyrena elongata, Dkr. 



27. Sph. emarginatum, Pr. Ads. rec. gen. ii. 450. 1858. 



Cycl. emarginata, Pr. Bost. Proc. iv. 156. 1851. loc. sup. cit. iv. 283. 



1852. Jay. Cat. iv. ed. 466. 1852. Bgt. Amen. i. p. 8. 1853. 

 Hab. N. Amer. 



—Cycl. erebea, d'Orb. Prod. 2, 223. 1850. Is Cyrena erebe a , Pr. 

 — Cycl. Euphratica, Lamk. An. Mus. vii. 420. 1806. Encycl. pi. 



302, f. 2, pi. 302, f. 2. Is Corbicula f 1 u m i n a 1 i s , Adams. 



28. Sph. fab a, Munster. 



Cycl. faba, Miinst. Goldf. Petr. 2, 232, pi. 147, f. 8, a, c. 1834-40. 

 Hab. Germ. (fossU.) 



29. Sph. fab alls, Pr. Ads. rec. gen. ii. 450. 1858. 



Cycl. fabalis, Pr. Bost. Proc. iv. 159. 1851. Jay. Cat. iv. ed. 465. 



1852. Bost. Proc. iv. 273. 1852. Bgt. Amen. i. p. 8. 1853. 

 Cycl. castanea, Pr. Bost. Proc. iv. 160. 1851. loc. sup. cit. iv. 273. 



1852. Bgt. Amen. i. p. 8. 1853. 

 Cysl. salculosa, Charp. MSS. 1851. 

 Sph. castaneum, Pr. Ads. rec. geu. ii. 450. 1858. 

 Hab. N. Amer. 

 —Cycl. fas ci at a, Gldf. Petr. 2, 232, pi. 147, f. 10, a, b. 1834-40. Is 



Cyrena fasciata, Rcemer. 

 — Cycl. Faujasii, d'Orb. Prod. 3, 109. 1852. Is Cyrena Fauiasii, 

 Desh. 



30. Sph. ferrugineum, Kr. 



Cycl. ferruginea, Kr. Moll. S. Afr. 7, pi. i. f. 7. 1848. 



Pisid parasiticum, Parr. MSS. 



MuscuUum parasiticum, Ads. rec. gen. ii. 452. 1858. 



" ferrugineum, Kr. loc. sup. cit. ii. 451. 1858. 

 Pisum parasiticum, Parr. loc. sup. cit. ii. 500. 1858. 



I860.] 




292 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



MascuUuvi ferrugineum, Kr. loc. sup. cit. ii. 560. 1858. 

 Hab. Africa. 

 — Cycl. Ferrusaci, d'Orb. Prod. 3, 19. 1852. Is Cyrena F errusaci, 



Math. 

 —Cycl. flavescens, McGil. Moll. Scot. 208, 246. 1844. Is Sph. cor- 



n e u m , Scop. 



31. Sph. flavum, Pr. Ads. rec. gen. ii. 450. 1858. 



Cijcl. flava, Pr. Bost. Proc. iv. 155. 1851. Jay, Cat. iv. ed. 465. 

 '1852. Bost. Proc. iv. 284. 1852. Bgt. Amen. i. p. 8. 1853. 



Hab. N. Amer. 



—Cycl. fluminea, Bosc. H. n. coq. 3, 38. 1802. Is Corbicula flu- 

 minea, Adams. 



—Cycl. fluviatilis, Bosc. H. n. coq. 3, 38. 1802. Is Corbicula flu- 

 minalis, Adams. 



—Cycl. Fontaineii, d'Orb. Voy. Amer. 569, pi. 83, f. 14, 15. 1844. 

 Is Cvrena Fontaineii, Phil. 



—Cycl. fontinalis, Drap. Hist. Moll. 130, pi. x. f. 11, 12. 1805. Is 

 Pisid. pusillum, Jen. 



32. Sph. f r m o s u m, Meek & Hayden. 



Cycl. formosa, M. &. H. Ac. N. S. Phil. Proc viii, 115. 1856. 

 Hab. N. Amer. (fossil.) 

 — Cycl. fossa rum, Kryn. Mss. (Bgt. Sph. 25. 1854.) Is Sph. corne- 



um, Scop. 

 —Cycl. fossulata, d'Orb. Prod. 2, 60. 1850. Is Cyrena fossulata, 



Cornnel. 



33. Sph. fragile. Meek & Hayden. 



Cycl.fragiUs, M. & H. Ac. N. S. Phil, Proc. viii. 115. 1856. 

 Hab. N. Amer. (fossil.) 



34. Sph. fuscatum, Rafin. Ads. Rec. Gen. ii. 450. 1858. 



Cycl. fuscata, Rafin. Mss. Pr. Bost. Proc. iv. 281. 1852. Lewis, 



Bost. Proc. V. 122. 1855. 

 Hab. N. Amer. 

 — Cycl. Galloprovincialis, Math. Cat. Meth. 146, pi. xiv. f. 34. 



1842. Is Sph. c n c i n n n m, Sowb. 



35. Sph. G ar dan ense. Math. Bgt. Sph. 44. 1854. 



Cycl. Gardanensis, Math. Math. Cat. Meth. 145, pi. xiv. f. i. 1842. 

 Hab. France, (fossil.) 

 —Cycl. Gar gas ens is. Math. Cat. Meth. 147. pi. xiv. f. 6. 1842. Is 



Aqnse S e x t i a e, Sowb. 

 —Cycl. G e s 1 i n i, d'Orb. Prod. 3, 109. 1852. Is Cyrena G e s 1 i n i, Desh. 

 — Cvcl. gibba, Aid. Trans. Nat. Hist. Soc. Northumb. 1, pt. 1, p. 41, 



18^30. Is Psid. b t u s a 1 e, Pf. 



36. Sph. gibbosTim, Sowb. Bgt. Sph. 45. 1854. 



Cycl. gibbosa, Sowb. Edin. N. Phil. H. vii. 297. 1829. 

 Cycl. Aquensis, Math. Cat. Meth. 148, pi. xiv. f. 8, 9. 1842. 

 Hab. France, (fossil.) 



— Sph. giganteum, Pr. Ads. Rec. Gen. ii. 458. 1858. Is Sph. sulca- 

 tum, Lam. 

 — Cycl. globosa, Megerle. Ville, Cat. 44, 1841. Is Sph. corneum. 



Scop. 

 — Cvcl. globosa, d'Orb. Prod. 3, 19, 1852. Is Cyreua globos a. Math. 

 —Cycl. globus, Dubois. Fos. Wohln. 59, pi. vi. f. 18, 19, 1831. Is 

 Erycina globus , d'Orb. 



[June, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 293 



37. Sph. gracile, Pr. Ads. Rec. Gen. ii. 450. 1858. 



Cycl. gracilis, Pr. Bost. Proc. iv. 156. 1851. loc. sup. cit. iv. 274. 1852. 



Bgt. Amen. 1, p. 8. 1853. 

 Hab. N. America. 



—Cycl. Graves!, d'Orb. Prod. 2, 323. 1850. Is Cyrena Graves!, Desh. 

 — Cycl. hammalis, Rafin. Borv. It. Vt. Amen. gen. scie. pliy. v. 319. 



1820. Is Corbicula hammalis , Per. 

 —Cycl. hermaphrodita, Mart. Mag. Nat. Hist. 1, 402, i)l. 1, f. 1, 2. 



Is Galathea r a d i a t a . 

 —Sph. H e r m i n i i , Wiild. In Collect. Cuming. 1859. Is Pisid. c a s e s t a - 



num , Bgt. 



38. Sph. inconspicuum, Pr. Proc. Zool. xxviii. 1860. 

 Hab. Asia Minor. 



39. Sph. Indicum, Desh. Proc. Zool. xxii. 342. 1854. 

 Hab. E. Indies. 



—Sph. inornatum, Pr. Ads. Rec. Gen. ii. 450. 1858. Is Sph. acumi- 

 natum, Pr. 



—Cycl. intermedia, d'Orb. Prod. 2, 304. 1850. Is Cyrena in te rme - 

 d i a , Desh. 



— Cycl. Islandica, Lam. An. Mus. vii. 420. 1806. Is Cyprina I s la n - 

 d ica. 



—Cycl. isocardioides, Norm. Drap. Moll. Fr. 668. 1852. Is Sph. 

 c r n e u m , Scop. 



40. Sph. Jayanum, Pr. Ads. Rec. Gen. ii. 450. 1858. 



Cycl. Jayensis, Pr. Bost. Proc. iv. 157. 1851. Loc. sup. cit. iv. 279. 

 1852. Jay, Cat. iv. ed. 465. 1852. Bgt. Amen. 1, p. 8. 1853. 

 Hab. N. America. 



41. Sph. Jeannoti, Norm. Cycl. 2. 1854. 

 Hab. France. 



42. Sph. Jugleri, Dkr. 



Cycl. Jugleri, Dkr. Wiild. 168. 1834. 

 Hab. Germ, (fossils.) 



—Cycl. lacustris, Drap. Hist. Moll. 130, pi. x. f. 6, 7. 1805. Is Sph. 

 ovale , Per. 



43. Sph. lacustre. Per. Bgt. Amen. 1, p. 6. 1853. 



Tellina lacustris, MuUer. Verm. 2, 204. 1774. 

 Cardium lacustre, Mont. Test. Brit. 89. 1803. 

 Cycl. calyculata, Drap. Hist. Moll. 130, pi. x. f. 14, 15. 1805. 

 Musculium lacustre, Link. Beschr. Coll. Univ. Rostock, 152. 1807. 

 Cycl. lacustris, Per. Meth. Conch. 128. 1807. 

 Tellina tuberculata, Alten. Syst. Abh. 4, pi. 1, f. 1. 1812. 

 T. tenera, Schrot. An. Wett. x. 316. 1814. 

 Cycl. tuberculata, Klees. Dissert, Tub. 45. 1818. 

 Tellina stagnicola, Sheph. Trans. Linn. See. xiv. 150. 1823. 

 Cycl. Perezeii, Villa. Mss. 1858. 

 Hab. Europe. 

 —Cycl. laevigata, Schum. 170, pi. xii. f. 1 . 1817. Is Corbicula fl u m i - 



nali s, Adams. 

 —Cycl. laevigata, Desh. Diet, class. Hist. Nat. v. 220. 1824. Is Pisid, 



laevigatum, Bgt. 

 —Cycl. lasmampsis, Rafin. Bory, St. Vt. An. gen. scie. phy. v. 319, 



pi. 82, f. 19, 21. 1820. Is Sph. sulcatum. Lam. 

 —Cycl. Leachii, Ziegl. Villa. Cat. 44. 1841. Is Sph. corneum. Scop. 

 —Cycl. lenticularis, Norm. Cycl. 8. 1844. Is Pisid. casertanum, 

 Bgt. 

 I860.] 




294 PKOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



— Cycl. lenticn 1 a ris, Boissy. Bull. Soc. Geol. Fr. 2nd sen iv. 173. 

 1846. Is. Sph. Verneuili, Boissy. 



— Cycl. limosa, d'Orb. Voy. Amer. (err.) pi. 82, f. 14, 16. 1S44. Is 

 Corbicula variegata, Adams. 



— Cycl. littoralis, Fer. Fer. in collect. Micliaud. Is Sph. macula- 

 turn, Morelet. 



— Cycl. lutea, Ziegl. Anton. Verz. 14. 1839. Is Sph. corneum, Scop. 



— Cycl. maculata, Anton. Wiegm. Archiv. 284. 1837. Is Sph. 

 Bahiense, Spix. 



44. Sph. maculatum, Morelet. Ads. Rec. Gen. ii. 450. 1858. 



Cycl. maculata, Mt. Test. nov. etc. pt. 2, 25. 1851. Bgt. Amen. 1, p. 



8. 1853. 

 Cycl. striatella, Fer. Cat. 20. 1837. Collect. Mus. Paris. 

 Cycl. littoralis, Fer. Fer. in Collect. Michaud. — Beau. Cat. Moll. Guade- 

 loupe, 24. 1858. 

 Pisid diaphanum, Hald. Ac. N. S. Phil. Proc. 1, 53. 1841. 

 Cycl. diaphana, Pr. Bost. II. vi. 267. 1852. 



Pisid. Moquinianum, Bgt. Amen. 1, p. 61, pi. 3, f. 13, 17. 1855. 

 Cycl. Moquiniana, Gas. Pisid. q. 1855. 

 Cycl. Veneziielensis, Pr. Pr. in Collect. Mus. Leiden. 1857. 

 —Cycl. major, Sowb. Geol. Trans, n. ser. iv. 176, 346. pi. 21. f. 13. 



1836. Is. Cyrena major, Morris. 

 —Cycl, ma j u s c u 1 a, Gldf. Pr. Gerea. 2, 232. pi. 147, f. 6, a, c. 1S34-40. 

 Is Cyrena majuscula, Eoemer. 



45. Sph. M a n s i a n u m, Noulet. Coq. fos. 16. 1857. 

 Hab. France, (fossil.) 



—Cycl. maritima, d'Orb. Cuba, 2, p. 350, pi. 21, f. 47, 50. 1853. Is 



Cyrena Cubensis, Prime. 

 — Cycl. Mat hero ni, d'Orb. Prod. 2, 304. 1850. Is Pisid cuneatum, 



Petit. 

 —Cycl. m e d i u s, Sowb. Min. Conch, vi. 51, pi. 527, f. 2, 1829. Is Cyrena 



media, Fitton. 

 — Cycl. memlDranaceus, Sowb. Min. Conch, vi. 51, pi. 527, f«3. 



1829. Is Cyrena membranacea, Fitton. 

 —Cycl. minima, Stud. Verz. 93. 1820. Is Pisid. obtusale, Pf. 

 — Cycl.minor, C. B. Ads. Bost. Proc. 1, 48. 1841. Is Pisid. a bdit urn, 



Hald. 

 — Sph. mirabile, Pr. Ads. Rec. Gen. ii. 450. 1858. Is Sph. p a r t u- 



meium, Say. 

 — Sph. m odes tum, Pr. Ads. Rec. Gen. ii. 450. 1858. Is Sph. stria- 

 tin u m. Lam. 



46. Sph. modioliforme, Anton. 



Cycl. modioliformis, Ajiton. Wiegm. Archiv. 284. 1837. Auton. Verz. 



14. 1839. 

 Musculium modioliformis, Anton. Ads. Rec. Gen. ii. 451. 1858. 

 Pisum 7nodioliforme, Anton. Ads. loc. sup. cit. ii. 560. 1858. 

 Hab. S. America. 

 — Cycl. Moquiniana, Gas. Pisid. g, 1855. Is Sph. maculatum, 



Morelet. 

 —Cycl. Nepeansi s, Les. Voy. Coq. ii. 4, 28. pi. 13, f. 14, 1830. Ads. 



Is Corbicula Nepeansis, Adams. 

 —Sph. nitidum, C. B. Ads. & Mighl. Ads. Rec. Gen. ii. 450. 1858. Is 



Pisid. A d a m s i, Pr. 

 — Cycl. nit ida, Hanley. Rec. spec. etc. 1. go. pi. 14. f. 46. 1843. Is 

 Pisid nitidum, Jen. 



[June. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 295 



47. Sph. nobile, Gld. 



Cycl. nohilis, Gld. Bost. Proc. v. 229. 1855- 

 Hab. Oceanica. 



48. Sph. Normandi. Michaud. 



Cycl. Normandi, Mich. Coq. fos. Hauterive, 27 pi. v. f. 22, 24. 1854. 

 (extra. Bull. Linn. Soc. Lyons.) 

 Hab. France, (fossil.) 



49. Sph. N o V a-Z e 1 a n d i a e, Desh. Proc. Zool. 22, p. 342. 1854. 

 Hab. N. Zealand & N. Holland. 



—Cycl. nucleus, Stud. Mem. Soc. Helv. Sci, Nat. 1, p. 25, pi. 2. f. 23. 



1837. Is Sph. c r n 6 u m. Scop. 

 —Cycl. n u c 1 e a, Boissy. BuU. Soc. Geol. Fr. 2nd ser. iv. 175, 1846. Is 



Pisid. n u c 1 e u m, Bgt. 



50. Sph. n u m i s m a 1 e, Math. Bgt. Sph. 46. 1854. 



Cycl. numismalis, Math. Cat. Meth. 146, pi. 14, f. 5. 1842. 

 Hab. France, (fossil.) 



— Cycl. o b 1 i q u a, Lam. Lam. v.559. 1818. Is Pisid. a m n i c u m, Jen.- 

 — CycL o bo vat a, Sowb. Min. Conch. 2, 140, pi. 165, f. 4, 6. 1818. 



Is Cyrena o b o v a t a, Desh. 

 — Cycl. obtusalis. Lam. Lam. v. 559. 1818. Is Pisid. obtusale,Pf. 



51. Sph. occidental e, Pr. 



Cycl. ovalis, Pr. (non Fer.) Bost. Proc. iv. 276. 1852. 



Cycl. occidentalis, Pr. Lewis, in loc. sup. cit. v. 122. 1855. Lewis, 



loc. sup. cit. vi. 2. 1856. 

 Sph. ovale, Stimps. Ads. Rec. Gen. ii. 450. 1858. 

 Hab. N. America. 



52. Sph. oepfingense, Kl. 



Cycl. oepfingensis, Kl. Wurt. Jhrb. 2, p. 95, pi. 2, f. 19. 1846. 

 Hab. Germany, (fossil.) 

 —Sph. orbicular ium, Barrat. Ads. Rec. Gen. ii. 450. 1853. Is Sph. 



partumeium. Say. 

 — ^ycl. orbicularis, Gldf. Petr. Germr. 5, 231, pi. 147, f. 5, a. b. 

 1 834-40. Is Cyrena orbicularis, Roemer. 



53. Sph. ovale, Fer. Bgt. Sph. 31, pi. iv. f. 10. 1854. 



Cycl. laciistris,* Dep. Hist. Moll. 130. pi. x. p. 6, 7. 1805. 



Cycl. ovalis, Fer. Meth. Conch. 2d ed. 128, 136. 1807. 



Cycl. consohrina, Fer. Diet. Scie. Nat. xii. 279. 1818. 



Sph. Deshayesianum, Bgt. Amen. 1, p. 6. 1853. 



Sph. consobrinum, Fer. Ads. Rec. Gen. ii. 450. 1858. 

 Hab. Europe. 

 —Cycl. ovalis, Nels. H. Conch. 2, p. 408. 1851. Is Pisid. obtusale, 



Pf. 

 Sph. ovale, Pr. (non Stimps.) Ads. Rec. Gen. ii. 450, 1858. Is Sph. oc- 

 cidentale, Pr. 



54. Sph. o V a t u m, Lewis. 



Cycl. ovata, Lewis. Bost. Proc. vi. 2. 1856. 

 Hab. N. America. 



— Cycl. pallida, Charp. Mss. 1851. Is Sph. elevatum, Hald. 

 —Sph. pallidum, Gray. Ads. Rec. Gen. ii. 450. 1858. Is Sph. c o r n e u m, 



Scop. 

 — Cycl. palustris, Drap. TabL MolL 106. 1801. Is Pisid. a m n icum, 



Jen. 



*Non Telliua 1 a c u s t r i s, MuUer, which is Sph, 1 a c u s t r e . 



I860.] 




296 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



— Cycl. Paranensis, d'Orb. Voy. Amer. Sept. 567. pi. 83. f. 23, 25. 

 1844. Is Corbicula Paranacensis, Pr. 



55. Sph. Parisiense, Pr. 



Cycs. transversa, Lev. Grateloup. Moll. Fr. Cont. 49 1855. 

 Hab. France, (fossil.) 



56. Sph. par turn e in m, Say. Bgt. Sph. 12. 1854. 



CycL partimeia, Say. Ac. N. S. Phil. II. 2, 380. 1822. Fer. Mag. Zool. 



1835. Jay, Cat. 3d ed. 16. 1839. Gould, Rept. 73, f. 54. 1841. 



Dekay, 223. pi. 25, f. 262. 1842. C. B. Ads. Vt. 18. 1842. Mighles. 



Bost. 11. iv. 318. 1843. Linsl. Amer. II. 48, 276. 1845. C. B. Ads. 



Cat. 30. 1847. Jay. Cat. iv. ed. 32. 1850. Pr. Bost. Proc. iv. 165. 



1851. Stimps. N. E. Moll. 16. 1851. Pr. Bost. Proc. iv. 278. 1852. 



Hartm. Cat. 1853. Bgt. Amen. 1, p. g. 1853. Lew. Bost. Proc. v. 



122. 1855. Lew. loc. sup. cit. vi. 2. 1856. 

 C. cornea, Lam. (Var. 2.) Lam. vi. 558, 1818. Lam. (Desh ed. vi.) 



268. 1835. 

 C. orbicularia, Barrat. Linsl. Amer. 11. 48, p. 276. 1845. Bgt. Amen. 



1, p. g. 1853. 

 C. mirahilis, Pr. Bost Proc. iv. 167. 1851. Bgt. Amen. 1, p. 8. 1853. 

 C. carulea, Pr. Bost. Proc. iv. 161. 1851. Jay, Cat. iv. ed. 465. 1852. 



Bgt. Amen. 1, p. 7. 1855. 

 Sph. orbicularium, Barrat. Ads. Rec. Gen. ii. 450. 1858. 

 Sph. mirabile, Pr. Loc. sup. cit. ii. 450. 1858. 

 Sph. caruleum, Pr. Loc. sup. cit. ii. 450. 1858. 

 Hab. N. America. 

 — Cycl. par V a, Sowb. Trans. Geol. Soc. 2d ser. iv. 345. pi. xxi. f. 7. 



1836. Is Cyrena p a r V a, Morris. 



57. Sph. patella, Gould. Ads. Rec. Gen. ii. 450. 1858. 



Cyclas patella, Gld. Bost. Proc. iii. 292. 1850. Pr. loc. sup. cit. iv. 



285. 1852. 

 Hab. N. America. 

 — Sph. p e 1 1 u c i du m, Pr. Ads. Rec. Gen. ii. 450. 1858. Is Sph. t r u n- 



ca t u m, Linsl. 

 — Cycl. Perezeii, Villa, Mss. 1858. Is Sph. lacustre, Fer. 



58. Sph. perpusillum, Gartn. 



Cyclas perpusilla, Gartn. Ann. der Wetter. 316. 

 Hab. Europe. 



—CycL Pfeifferi, ZiegL Porro. Malac. 121. 1838. Is Pisid. am ni- 

 cum, Jen. 



59. Sph. pis i dio ides, Gray? Ads. Rec. Gen. ii. 450. 1858. 

 Hab. England. (Not described.) 



60. Sph. pi sum, Math. Bgt. sph. 4.3. 1854. 



Cyclas pisum, Math. Cat. Mtth. 148, pL xiv. f. 10, 11. 1842. 



C. subpisum, d'Orb. Prod. 3, 19. 1852. 

 Hab. France, (fossil.) 



—Cycl. pisum, d'Orb. Prod. 2, 322. 1850. Is Cyrena pisum, Desh. 

 — Cycl. plumbeus. Villa. Cat. 44. 1841. Is Sph. c o r n e u m, Scop. 

 — Sph. ponderosum, Pr. Ads. Rec. Gen. ii. 450. 1858. Is Sph. sul- 

 catum, Lam. 

 — Cycl. p r i s c a, Eichw. Nat. Hist. Skizze. 207. Is Pisid. p r i s c u m, Eichw. 



61. Sph. prom inn Hum, Reuss. Bgt. Sph. 47. 1854. 



Cyclas prominula, Reuss. Dkr. et Meyer Paleont. 2, 242, pi. iv. f. 14. 

 1852. 

 Hab. Germany, (fossil.) 



[June, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 297 



— Cycl. p r oserpina, d'Orb. Prod. 2, 323. 1850. Is Cyrena pro s e r- 

 p i n a, Pr. 



62. Sph, proximnm, Alder ? Ads. Rec. Gen. ii. 450. 1858. 

 Hab ? (Not described.) 



— Cycl. pulchella, Hani. Proc. Spec. 1, 91. 1843. Is Pisid. caser- 

 t a u n m, Bgt. 



63. Sph. pulchellum, d'Orb. 



Cijclas pulchella, d'Orb. Guer. Mag. Zool. 1835. Voy. Amer. Sept. 



568, pi. 83, f. 8-10. 1844. 

 MuscuUum pulchellum, d'Orb. Ads. Rec. Gen. ii. 452. 1858. 

 Pisum piilcheUum, d'Orb. Loc. sup. cit. ii. 560.. 1858. 

 Hab. South America. 

 —Cycl. pule her, Sowb. Min. Conch, vi. 51, pi. 527, f. 1. 1829. Is Cyrena 



p u 1 c h r a, Morris. 

 —Cycl. pus ilia, Turton. Man. 16, pi. 1, f. 7. 1831. Is Pisid. pusil- 

 lum, Jen. 



64. Sph. pygmenm, C. B. Adams. 



Cyclas pi/gmea, C. B. Adams. Contr. Conch. 44, 1849. Jay, Cat. ir. ed. 

 465, 1862. Bgt. Amen. 1, p. 9, 53, 1853. 



MuscuUum pygmeum, C. B. Ads. Ads. Rec. Gen. ii. 452, 1858. 



Pisum pygmeum, C. B. Ads. Loc. sup. cit. ii. 660, 18-38. 

 Hab. W. Indies. 

 — Cycl. r a d i a t a, Blainv. 2232. 1828. Is Galatea r a d i a t a, Lam. 



65. Sph. rhomboi deum. Say. Ads. Rec. Gen. ii. 450. 1858. 



Cyclas rhomboidea, Say. Ac. N. S. Phil. II. ii. 380, 1822. Per. Mag. 



Zool. 1835. Dekay, 224, pi. 25, f. 263, 1842. C. B. Ads. Vt. 18, 



1842. Linsl. Amer. II. 48, 276, 1845. C. B. Ads. Cat. 30, 1847. 



Jay, Cat. iv. ed. 32, 1850. Stimps. N. C. Moll. 16, 1851. Pr. Bost. 



Proc. iv. 272, 1852. Pr. An. N. Y. Lye. vi. 66, pi. 1, f. 4— a, b, 1853. 



Bgt. Amen. 1, p. 9. 1853. 

 Cyclas cornea, Lam. var. 3. Lam. v. 558, 1818. Lam. (Desh. ed.) vi. 



268, 1835. 

 Cyclas elegans, Ads. Bost. II. 3, 330, pi. 3, f. 11, 1840. Gould. Rept. 



74, f. 55, 1841. Dekay, 224, 1842. C. B. Ads. Vt. 18, 1842. Linsl. 



Amer. 11. 48, 276, 1845. C. B. Ads. Cat. 30, 1847. Jay, Cat. iv. ed. 



32, 1850. Pr. Bost. Proc. iv. 165, 1851. Stimps. N. E. Moll. 16, 



1851. Bgt. Amen. 1, p. 8. 1853. Lewis Bost. Proc. v. 122, 1855. 

 Sph. elegans, C. B. Adams. Ads. Rec. Gen. ii. 450, 1858. 

 Hab. N. America. 

 —Cycl. rival is, Drap. Hist. MolL 129, pi. x. f. 4, 5. 1805. Is. Sph. 



c r n e n m, Scop. 



66. Sph. rivicola, Lam. Bgt. Amen. 1, p. 6, 1853. 



Chama albida, d'Arg. Conch. 2d pt. pi. 31, p. 368, 374, 1742. 

 Tellina cornea, (pars.) Schrot. 189, pi. iv. f. 4, 1779. 

 Cyclas cornea, (pars.) Draps. Tabl. Moll. 105, var. a, 1801. 

 C. rivicola, Lam. Lam. v. 558, 1818. 

 C. cequata, Sheph. Mss. 1840. 



Sph. riviculum, Leach. Morch. Cat. Conch, etc. fase. 2, p. 30, 1853. 

 Cycl. sabulicola, Kryn. Mss. (Bgt. Sph. 13, 1854.) 

 Hab. Europe. 



67. Sph. r osac eum, Pr. Ads. Rec. Gen. ii. 450. 1858. 



Cyclas rosacea, Pr. Bost. Proc. iv. 155, 1851. Loc. sup. cit. iv. 277. 

 1852. 

 Hab. N. America. 

 —Cycl. R u y a n a, d'Orb. Prod. 2, 381. 1850. Is Cyrena R o u y a n a, Bgt. 



I860.] 




298 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMF OF 



68. Sph. rugosum, Dkr. 



Cycles rugosa, Dkr. Dkr. & Meyer, Paleont. 1, 38, pi. 6, f. 15, 16, a-b, 

 1846. 

 Hab. Grermany, (fossil, j 



39. Sph. Ryckboltii, Normd. Bgt. Amen. 1, p. 6. 1853. Normd. Cycl. 

 3. 1854. 

 Ci/clas Ryckholtii, Normd. Cycl. 7, f. 5, 6, 1844. 

 Sph. strictum, Normd. Cycl. 3, 1854. 

 Hab. France. 



70. Sph. Rylliense, Boissy. 



Cyclas Ri/lliensis, Boissy. Bull. Soc. Geol. Fr. 2d ser. iv. 178, 1846. 



Mem. Soc. Geol. Fr. 2d ser. 3, 270, pi. v. f. 5, a-c, 1848. 

 Pisid. Rylliense, Bgt. Sph. 52, 1854. 

 Hab. France, (fossil.) 



— Cycl. sabulicola, Kryn. Mss. (Bgt. Lph, 13. 1854. Is Sph. rivi- 

 c o 1 a, Lam. 

 — Cycl. Sa rrat gea, Lam. Lam. v. 560. 1818. Is Sph. sul c a turn, 

 Lam. 



71. Sph. Scaldianum, Normd. Cycl. 1. 1854. 



Cyclus Scaldiana, Normd. Cycl. 5, f. 1, 2, 1844. 



Sph. corneum, Scop. Bgt. Amen. 1, p. 6, 1854. 



S. citrinum, Normd. Cycl. 1, 1854. 

 Hab. France. 



—Cycl. Sebetia, DaCosta. Cat. Syst. Tert. Sicil. pi. 2, f. 6. 1829. Is 

 Bornia corbuloides, Phil. 



72. Sph. securis, Pr. Ads. Rec. Gen. ii. 450, 1858. 



Cyclas securis, Pr. Bost. Proc. iv. 160, 1851. Stimp. N. E. Moll, 16, 

 1851. An. N. Y. Lye. v. 218, pi. vi., 1852. Bost. Proc. iv. 276, 1852. 

 Jay, Cat. iv. ed. 466, 1852. Hartman, Cat. 1853. Bgt. Amen. 1, p. 9, 

 1853. Lewis, Bost. Proc. v. 122, 1855. 

 C. crocea, Lewis. Loc. sup. cit. v. 25, 1854 ; vi. 2, 1856. 

 Hab. N. America. 



73. Sph. semi nullum, Renas. Bgt. Sph. 47. 1854. 



Cycl. seminulla, Reuss. Dkr. & Meyer Paleont. 2, 42, pi. iv. f. 15, 1852. 



Hab. Europe (fossil.) 



— Cycl. semistriata, d'Orb. Prod. 3, 19. 1852. Is Cyrena semistri- 

 a t a, Desh. 



—Sph. simile, Say. Ads. Rec. Gen. ii. 450. 1818. Is Sph. sulcatum, 

 Lam. 



—Sph. simplex, Pr. Ads. Rec. Gen. ii. 450. 1858. Is Sph. acumi- 

 natum, Pr. 



—Cycl. s i r e n a, d'Orb. Prod. 2, 323. 1850. Is Cyrena s i r e n a, Pr. 



—Cycl. s 1 i d a, DeKay. 220, pi. 25, f. 265. 1842. Is Sph. sulcatum, 

 Lam. 



74. Sph. solidum, Normd. Bgt. Amen. 1, p. 6, 1853. Normd. Cycl. 2, 1854. 



Cycl. solida, Normd. Cycl. 6, f. 3-4. 1844. 

 Hab. France. 



75. Sph. s 1 i d u 1 u m, Pr. 



Cycl. solidula, Pr. Bost. Proc. iv. 158, 1851. Loc. sup. cit. iv. 282, 

 1852. Jay, Cat. iv. ed. 466, 1852. Bgt. Amen. 1, p. 9, 1853. Lewis, 

 Bost. Proc. V. 122, 1855. 

 C. distorta, Pr. loc. sup. cit. iv. 158, 1851. Loc. sup. cit. iv. 285, 



1852. Bgt. Amen. 1, p. 7, 1853. Lewis, Bost. Proc. v. 122, 1855. 

 Sph. distortum, Pr. Ads. Rec. Gen. ii. 450. 1858. 

 Hab. N. America. 



[June, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 299 



76. Sph. sphsericum, Anthony. Ads. Rec. gen. ii. 450, 1858. 



Cud. sphcerica, Anth. Pr. Bost. Proc. iv. 275. 1852. 

 Hab. N. America. 



— Cjcl. s t agnicol a, Leach. Mss. Brit. Mus. 1840. Is Sph. corneumj 

 Scop. 



77. Sph. stamineum, Conrad. Ads. Rec. Gen. ii. 450. 1858. 



Cycl. staminea, Conrad. Amer. II. xxT. 342, pi. 1, f. 5, 1834. Fer. 



Mag. Zool. 1833. Dekay, 224, 1842. Jay, Cat. ir. ed. 32, 1850. Pr. 



Bost. Proc. iv. 281, 1852. Bgt. Amen. 1, p. 9, 1853. 

 Hab. N. America. 

 — Sph. Steenbuchii, Moller. Ads. Rec. Gen. ii, 450, 1858. Is Pisid. 



Steenbuchii, Morch. 



78. Sph. St e en ii, Schmidt. Ads. Rec. Gen. ii. 450. 1858. 



Cycl. Steenii, Schmidt. Zeit. Malac. 118. 1850. 

 Hab. Germany. 



— Cycl. s t r i a t e 1 1 a, Fer. Cat. 20. 1837. Collect, Mus, Paris, Is Sph. 

 maculatum, Morelet. 



79. Sph. striatinnm, Lam. 



Cycl. striatina, Lam. Lam. v. 560, 1818. Lam. (Desh. edit.) vi. 271, 

 1835. Delessert pl. vii. f. 4, 1841. Bgt. Amen. 1, p. 9, 1853. Pr. 

 notes on Cvcl. 1857. 



C. edentida, "Say N. Harm, Dissem. 2, 1829. Fer. Mag. Zool. 1835. 

 N. Harm. Dissem. (reprint) 10, 1840. DeKay 225, 1842. Bgt. Amen. 

 1, p. 8, 1853. 



C. modesia, Pr. Bost. Proc. iv. 159, 1851. Loc. snp. cit. iv. 284, 1852. 

 Bgt. Amen. 1, p. 8, 1853. Lewis, Bost. Proc. vi. 2, 1856. 



Sph. modestum, Pr. Ads. Rec. Gen. ii. 450. 1858. 



Muscidium edentulum, Say. Loc. sup. cit. ii. 451. 1858. 



Pisum edentulum, Say. Loc. sup. cit. ii. 560. 1858. 

 — Sph. s t r i 1 u m, Normd. Cycl. 3. 1854. IsSph. Ry ckh olti i, Normd. 

 — Cycl. subdeperdita, d'Orb. Prod. 2, 305. 1850. Is Cyrena d e p e r- 



d 1 1 a, Desh. 

 — Cycl. subdepressa, d'Orb. Prod. 2, 381. 1850. Is Cyrena com- 

 press a, Desh. 



80. Sph. subellipticum. Meek & Hayden. 



Ci/cl. subelliptica, M. & H. Ac. N. S. Phil. Proc. viii. 115. 1856, 

 Hab. N. Amer. (fossil.) 

 —Cycl. subla?vigata, d'Orb. Prod. 2, 304. 1850. Is Pisid. 1 ae v i g a- 



tum, Bgt. 

 —Cycl. s u b 1 ffi V i 9, Gldf. Petr. Germ. 2, 232, pl, 147, f. 7, a-b. 1834-40, 



Is Cyrena sublsevis, Eoemer. 

 —Cycl. suborbicularis, d'Orb. Prod. 2, 304. 1850. Is Corbicula 



orbicularis, Pr. 

 — Cycl. subpisum, d'Orb. Prod. 3, 19. 1852. Is Sph. p i g u m, Math. 

 — Cycl. subquadrata, Sowb. Geol. Trans. 2d ser. iv. 177, 345, pL 

 xxi. f, 8. 1836. Is Cyrena subquadrata, Morris. 

 31. Sph. subtransversnm, Pr. Proc. Zool. xxviii. 1860. 



Hab. Mexico. 

 S2. Sph. subtrigonum, Dkr. 



Cycl. subtrigona, Dkr. Wald. 168, 1834. 

 Hab. Germ, (fossil.) 



83. Sph. sulcatum, Lam. 



Cycl. sulcata, Lam. Lam. v. 560, 1818. Lam. (Desh. ed.) vi. 271 , 1835. 

 Fer. Mag. Zool. 1835. Fer. Cat. 20, 1837. Delessert, pl. vii, f. 3, 

 1841. Jay, Cat. iv. ed. 32, 1850. Stimp. N. E. Moll. 16, 1851. 

 Bgt. Amen. i. p. 9, 1853. Pr. Notes Cycl. 1857, 



I860.] 




300 PROCEEDINGS or THE ACADEMY OP 



Cycl. Saratogea, Lam. Lam. v. 560, 1818. Lam. (Desh. ed.) vi. 



271, 1835. Fer. Mag. ZooL 1835. Delessert, pi. 7, f. 9, 1841. Bgt. 



Amen. i. p. 9, 1853. 

 Cycl. similis, Say. Rafin. in Bory. St. Vt. An. Gen. Sci. Phy. v. 319, 



1820. Fer. Mag. Zool. 1835. Fer. Cat. 20, 1837. Jay. Cat. 3, ed. 



IG, 1839. Gould. Rapt. 72, f. 53, 1841. DeKay, 222, pi. 25, f. 264, 



1842. Ads. Vt. 18, 1842. Linsl. Amer. 11. 48, 276, 1845. Ads. 



Cat. 30, 1847. Jay. Cat. iv. ed. 32, 1850. Pr. Bost. Proc. iv. 165, 



1851. Hartman, Cat. 1853. Bgt. Amen. i. p. 9, 1853. Lewis, Bost. 

 Proc. V. 122, 1855. Lewis, loc. sup. cit. vi. 2, 1856. 



Cycl. lasmampsis, Rafin. Bory, St. Vt. An. Gen. Sci. Phy, v. 319, pi. 



82,119,20,1820. Fer. Mag. Zool. 1835. Bgt. Amen. i. p. 8, 1853. 



Cycl. gigantea, Pr. Bost. Proc. iv. 157, 1851. Loc. sup. cit. iv. 282, 



1852. Bgt. Amen. i. p. 8, 1853. 



Cycl. ponderosa, Pr. Bost. Proc. iv. 157, 1851. Loc. sup. cit. iv. 282, 



1852. Bgt. Amen. i. p. 9, 1853. 

 Cycl. striatina, Lam. Fr. Mag. Zool. 1835. 

 Sph. giganteum, Pr. Ads. Rec. Gen. ii. 450, 1858. 

 SpJi. ponderosum, Pr. Loc. sup. cit. ii. 450, 1858. 

 Hab. N. Amer. 



— Cycl. sulc ulosa, Charp. Mss. 1851. Is Sph. fab ale, Pr. 

 —Cycl. t e 1 1 i n e 1 1 a, d'Orb. Prod. 2, 304. 1850. Is Cyrena t e 1 1 i n e I - 

 la, Fer. 



84. Sph. tenue, Pr. Ads. Rec. Gen. ii. 450. 1858. 



Cycl. tenuis, Pr. Bost. Proc. iv. 161, 1861. Loc. sup. cit. iv. 825, 

 1852. 

 Hab. N. Amer. 



85. Sph. tenui striatum, Pr. Bgt. Sph. 12. 1854. 



Cycl. tenuistriata, Pr. Bost. Proc. iv. 156, 1851. Loc. sup. cit. iv. 272, 



1852. Bgt. Amen. i. p. 9, 1853. 

 Cycl. cornea, Drap. C. B. Adams, Cat. 29. 1847. 

 Hab. N. Amer. 



86. Sph. Terverianum, Dup. Bgt. Amen. i. p. 6, 1853. Bgt. Sph. 19, 



pi. 2, f. 11, 15, 1854. 

 Cycl. Terveriana, Dup. Cat. Extram. Gall. Tert. Vt. 87, 1849. 

 Hab. France. 



87. Sph. transversum. Say. Ads. Rec. Gen. ii. 450. 1858. 



Cycl. transversa, Say. New Harm. Diss, ii. 356, 1829. Fer. Mag. Zool. 



1835. New Harm. Diss. Rept. 10, 1840. DeKay, 224, 1842. Jay. 



Cat. iv, ed. 466, 1852. Pr. Bost. Proc. iv, 274, 1852. Bgt. Amen. 



i, p. 9, 1853. Lewis, Bost, Proc. v. 122, 1855. Lewis, loc. snp. cit. 



vi. 2, 1856, 

 Cycl. detriincata, Pr. Loc. sup, cit. iv. 155, 1851, iv. 273, 1852, Bgt. 



Amen, i, p. 8, 1858. 

 Cycl. constricta, Anthony. Pr, Bost, Proc, iv, 274. 1852. 

 Sph. detruncatum, Pr. Ads. Rec. Gen. ii. 450. 1858. 

 Sph. constrictum, Anth. Loc, sup. cit, ii, 450. 1858, 

 Hab. N. America. 

 — Cycl. transversa. Lev. Grateloup, Moll. Fr. Cont. 49. 1855. Is Sph. 



Parisiense, Pr. 



88. Sph. tri ang u lare. Say. 



Cyclas triangularis, Say. New Harm. Dissem. 2. 356, 1829. Fer. Mag. 

 Zool. 1835, New Harm, Dissem. (rept.) 10, 1860, Bgt. Amen. i. p. 

 9, 1853. 

 Hab. N. America. 



[June, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 301 



— Cycl. triangularis, Dub. Fos. Woliln. 59, pi. vi. f. 20, 21, 1831. 



Is Ericina triangularis, d'Orb. 

 —Cycl. trigona, Gldf. Petr. Germ. 2, 233, pi. 147, f. 11, a-b. 1834-40 



Is Cyrena R oe m e r i, Dkr. 

 —Cycl. trigona, d'Orb. Prod. 2, 304. 1850. Is Cyrena trigona, Desh. 



89. Sph truncatum, Linsley. Ads. Rec. Gen. ii. 451. 1858. 



Oyclas caJyculata, Drap. C. B. Ads. Amer. II. xl. 277, 1841. Ads. 



Vermt. 18, 1842. Ads. Cat. 29, 1847. 

 Cyclas truncata, Linsl. Gould. Amer. II. n. ser. vi. 234, f. 3, 1848. 

 Pr. Best. Proc. iv. 165, 1751. Jay, Cat. iv. ed. 466, 1852. Bgt. 

 Amen. i. p. 9, 1853. 

 Cyclas pellucida, Vr. Stimps. N. E. Moll. 16,1851. Jay, Cat. iv. ed. 



465, 1852. Bost. Proc. iv. 277, 1852. Bgt. Amen. i. p. 9, 1853. 

 Sph. pellucidum, Pr. Ads. Rec. Gen. ii. 450. 1858. 

 Hab. N. America. 



— Cycl. t uber culata, Klees. Tubing 45. 1818. Is Sph. 1 a c u s t r e, Fer. 

 — Cycl. tumid a, Ziegl, Villa Cat. 44. 1841. Is Sph. corneum, Scop. 



90. Spb. unguiforme, Boissy. Bgt. Sph. 42. 1854. 



Cycl. unguiformis, Boissy. Bull. Soc. Geol. Tr. 2d ser. iv. 178, 1846. 



Mem. Soc. Geol. Tr. 2d ser. 3, 269, pi. v. f. 2, 1848. 

 Hab. France, Cfossil.) 

 — Cj-cl. Ustuert e ns is, Eichw. Faun. Casp. 263. 1841. Is Arthemis 



Ustuertensis, Eichvr. 

 — Cycl. Vapin can a, d'Orb. Prod. 2. 381. 1850. Is Cyrena V a p i n- 



c a n a, Bgt. 



91. Sph. V 6 a 1 1 e y i, C. B. Adams. 



Cycl. Veatleyi, C. B. Ads. Contrib. Conch. 44. 1869. Jav, Cat. iv. ed. 



32. 1850. Bgt. Amen. 1, p. g. 1853. 

 Pisid. Veatleyi, Petit. II Conch. 2, 421. 1851. Bgt. Amen. 1, p. 53. 



1853. 

 Musculium Veatleyi, C. B. Ads. Ads. Rec. Gen. ii. 452. 1858. 

 Pisum Veatleyi, C. B. Ads. Ads. loc. sup. cit. ii. 560. 1858. 

 Hab. Jamaica. 



— Cycl. Venezuelensis, Pr. In Collect. Mus. Leyden, 1857. Is Sph. 

 maculatum, Morelet. 



92. Sph. Verne uili, Boissy. Bgt. Sph. 42. 1854. 



Cycl. lenticularis, Boissy. Bull. Soc. Geol. Fr. 2d ser. iv. 178. 1846. 

 Cycl. Verneuili, Boissy. Mem. Soc. Geol. Fr. 2d ser. 4, 569, pi. v. f. 3. 



1848. 

 Hab. France, (fossil.) 

 — Cycl. V io lacea. Lam. Ann. Mus. vii. 421. 1806. Is Battissa v i o- 



1 a e a, Adams. 

 — Cycl. V i t r e a, Risso. Risso, iv. 338. 1826. Is Pisid. casertanum, 



Bgt. 

 — Cycl. Zey 1 anic a. Lam. Ann. Mus. vii. 420. 1806. Is Cyrena Ze y- 



lanica, Lam. 



93. Sph. zenatum, Pr. MSS. 1859, in Collect. Cumming. 

 Hab. N. Zealand. 



On motion, an election was held, and Mr. Wm. C. Henszey was 

 chosen Treasurer in place of George W. Carpenter deceased. 



I860.] 20 




302 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



July 3(?, 

 Vice-President Bridges in the Chair. 



Twenty-nine members present. 



The following papers were presented for publication : 



" Descriptions of two new species of Uniones from Georgia." By 

 Isaac Lea. 



" Descriptions of three new species of Uniones from Mexico." By 

 Isaac Lea. 



" Descriptions of six new species of Unionidse from Alabama." By 

 Isaac Lea. 



" Descriptions of seven new species of Unionidae from the United 

 States." By Isaac Lea. 



" Descriptions of three new species of Exotic Unionidiae." By Isaac 

 Lea. 



'•'■ Descriptions of new fossil remains collected in Nebraska and Utah, 

 by the Exploring Expeditions under the command of Capt. J. H. Simp- 

 son, of LT. S. Topographical Engineers," [extracted from that officer's 

 forthcoming report.] By F. B. Meek. 



And were referred to Committees. 



Dr. Darrach presented the following list of plants seen in flower in 

 the neighborhood of Philadelphia during the month of June. 



Raxcnculace^. 

 Thalictruni corniiti. 

 Ranunculus alismsefolius. 

 Actaea spicata, v. alba. 

 Cimicifuga racemosa. 



Me>"ispekmace.s. 

 Menispermum canadense. 



Cabombaceje. 

 Brasenia peltata. 



Papavekace.«. 

 Papaver diibium. 



CKUCIFER.E. 



Nasturtium sylvestre. 

 ' ' palustre. 



Arabis Canadensis. 

 Camelina saliva. 

 Lepidium Virginicum. 



Yiolace^. 

 Viola Canadensis. 



HyPEKICACE*. 



Hypericum perforatum. 

 ' ' corymbosum. 



Cartophtllacejb. 

 Agrostemma githago. 

 Spergularia rubra. 

 Anychia dichotoma. 

 Mollugo verticillata. 



P0RTt7LACACE.S. 



Portulaca oleracea. 



Malvacejs. 

 Malva rotundifolia. 



TlLIACE^. 



Tilia Americana. 



LiNACEjE. 



Linum usitatissimum. 



AKACAEDIACE.S:. 



Rhus venenata. 



VlTACE^. 



Vitis cordifolia. 



Rhamnace^. 

 Ceanothus Americanus. 



Celasteace^. 

 Euouymus atropurpureus. 



POLYGALACEiE. 



Polygala lutea. 



Legumixosjs. 

 Robinia pseudacacia. 

 Tephrosia Virginiana. 

 Lathyrus palustris. 



RoSACKiB. 



Spirasa opulifolia. 

 Gillenia trifoliata. 



[July, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



SOi 



Geum album. 

 Potentilla Norvegica. 

 Rubus odoratus. 



" occidentalis. 



" bispidus. 



" cuneifolius. 

 Rosa Carolina. 



" lucida. 



" nibiginosa. 

 Cratfegus crus galli. 



Onagrace.5. 



CEnotbera fruticosa. 

 Circsea lutetiana. 



Cactace^. 



Opuntia Tulgaris. 



Saxifragace;e. 



Itea Virginica. 

 Hydrangea arborescens. 



UmbellifeRjE. 



Hydrocotyle umbellata. 

 ' ' Americana. 



Sanicula Canadensis. 

 Pastinaca sativa. 

 Tbaspium aureum. 

 Cicuta maculata. 

 Cryptotaenia Canadensis. 



CORNACE.E. 



Cornus sericea. 

 ' ' paniculata. 



Caprifoliace^. 



Triostenm perfoliatiim. 

 Sambucus Canadensis. 

 Viburnum nudum. 



" prunifolinm. 



' ' dentatum. 



RUBIACE.B. 



Galium aparine. 



'' asprellum. 



" trifidum. 



" pilosum. 



*' circsezans. 

 Mitcbella repens. 



C0MP0SIT>E. 



Erigeron Philadelphicum. 



" annuum. 



' ' strigosum. 

 Rndbeckia birta. 

 Maruta cotula. 

 Achillea millefolium. 

 Gnapbalium purpureum. 

 Cirsium borridulum. 



' ' arvense. 

 I860.] 



Cicborium intybus. 

 Hieracium Gronovii. 



" paniculatum. 



Lactuca elongata. 



LoBELIACEiE. 



Lobelia inflata. 

 ' ' spicata. 



Campanulace^. 

 Specularia perfoliata. 



Ericaceae. 



Gaylussacia dumosa. 

 Vaccinium macrocarpon. 

 Andromeda ligustrina. 

 Azalea viscosa. 

 Pyrola rotundifolia. 



" eliptica. 



" secunda. 

 Cbimapliila maculata. 

 Monotropa uniflora. 



Aquifoliace^. 

 Ilex opaca. 

 " verticillata. 

 ' ' laevigata. 

 ' ' glabra. 



Plantaginace^ 

 Plantago major. 



Primulace*. 

 Lysimacbia stricta. 



" quadrifolia. 



" ciliata. 



LENTIBCTLACEiE. 



Utricularia striata. 



BlGNONIACE^. 



Catalpa biguonioides. 



SCROPHULARIACEJE, 



Verbascum tbapsus. 



' ' blattaria. 



" lycbnitis. 



Linaria vulgaris. 

 Scropbularia nodosa. 

 Pentstemon pubescens. 

 Gratiola Virginiana. 

 Veronica anagallis. 



" scutellata. 

 Melampyrum Americanum. 



Verbenace*. 

 Verbena urticifolia. 



Labiate. 

 Nepeta glecboma. 

 Scutellaria lateriflora. 

 Leonaras cardiaca. 




304 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



BOKKAGUTACE^. 



Onosmodinm Virginianum. 

 GynoglossTim officinale. 



" Virginicum, 



POLEJIONIACEiE. 



Plilos maculata. 



C0SV0L\TrLACE.S. 



Ipomsea pandurata. 

 Convolvulus arvensis. 

 Calvstegia sepium. 



SOLANACE^. 



Solanum dulcamara. 



" Carolinense. 



' ' nigrum. 

 Physalis angulata. 

 Datura stramonium. 



Apoctitace^. 



Apocynum androsamifolium. 

 " cannibinum. 



ASCLEPIADACE^:. 



Asclepias comuti. 



" quadrifolia. 

 " phytolaccoides. 

 ' ' variegata. 

 " obtusifolia. 

 " tuberosa. 



Oleace^. 

 Ligustrum vulgare. 



POLYGOITACE^. 



Polygonum aviculare. 



" convolvulus. 



Peltandra Virginica. 

 Acorus calamus. 



Naiadace^. 

 Potamogeton natans. 



Alismacb^. 

 Sagittaria variabilis. 



Hydkocharidace.e. 

 Anacharis Canadensis. 



Orchidace-s. 

 Platanthera lacera. 



' ' fimbriata. 



Spirantbes latifolia. 

 Pogonia opbioglossoides. 

 Calopogon pulchellus. 

 Liparis liliifolia. 

 Corallorhiza odontorrhiza. 

 Cypripedium pubescens. 



HiEMODOKACE^. 



Aletris farinosa. 



Iridace^. 

 Iris Virginica. 

 Sisyrinchium Bermudiana, 



DiOSCOREACES. 



Dioscorea villosa. 



SMlLACEiE. 



Smilax pseudocbina. 



Melanthaceje. 

 Amiantbium muscaetoxicum. 

 Xeropbyllum aspbodeloides. 

 Cbamaelirium luteum. 

 Species 160. 



July nth. 

 Dr. Isaac Hays in the Chair. 



Twenty-three members present. 



The following papers were presented for publication : 



" Notes on Coleoptera found at Fort Simpson, Mackenzie River, 

 with remarks on other northern species." By John L. Le Conte, M. D. 



" Synopsis of the Scaphidiidse of the United States." By John L. 

 Le Conte, M. D. 



And were referred to Committees. 



Mr. Gabb presented a Catalogue of the Museum of the Academy for 

 the use of visitors, which was referred to the Committee on Proceed- 

 ings with power to publish. 



"Vhe number of the Proceedings for June was laid on the table by 

 the Committee. 



[July, 




NATUEAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 305 



July IWh. 

 Dr. B. H. Coates in the Chair. 



Nineteen members present. 



A paper was presented for publication entitled 



" Description of a new species of Cepbalopod from the Eocene of 

 Texas." By Wm. M. Gabb. 



And was referred to a Committee. 



Dr. Leidy mentioned that he had recently found near Jackson, 

 New Jersey, a specimen of Hyla viridis or lateralis, a species 

 not previously found north of Baltimore. 



July 31s<. 

 Dr. Emerson in the Chair. 



Seventeen members present. 



On report of the respective Committees, the following papers were 

 ordered to be published in the proceedings. 



Descriptions of Two New Species of UNIONES from Georgia. 

 BY ISAAC LEA. 



Unio lingu^formis. — Testa laevi, elliptic^, compressa, ad latere planulata, 

 injequilaterali, postice obtuse biangulata, antice rotundata; valvulis subte- 

 nuibus, antice crassioribus ; natibus prominulis ; epidermide pallido-lutea, 

 subnitida, virido-radiata, deatibus cardinalibus parviusculis, obtuso-conicis,, 

 crenulatis, ia utroque valvulo duplicibus ; lateralibus sublongis, lamellatis 

 subcurvisque , margarita alba et valde iridescente. 



Hah. — Columbus, Georgia. 



Unio dispar. — Testa laevi, elliptica, subinflata, ad latere paulisper planulata, 

 valde inaequilaterali, postice obtuse angulata, antice rotundata; valvulis sub- 

 crassis ; natibus prominulis, ad apices undulatis; epidermide vel lutea vel 

 oliva et valde radiata ; dentibus cardinalibus parviusculis, compressis, in 

 utroque valvulo duplicibus, erectis, crenulatis ; lateralibus longis, lamellatis 

 curvisque, margarita alba et iridescente. 



Hah. — Columbus, Georgia, Bishop Elliott and G. Hallenbeck. 



Descriptions of Three New Species of UNIONES from Mexico. 

 BY ISAAC LEA. 



Unio Couchiancs. — Testa laevi, quadrata, inflata, biemarginata, ad latere sul- 

 cata, inaequilaterali, postice biangulata, antice rotunda ; valvulis crassis, antice 

 crasssioribus ; natibus prominentibus ; epidermide olivo-fusca, striata, eradi- 

 ata; dentibus cardinalibus subgrandibus, erectis, rugoso-striatis, crenulatis; 

 lateralibus sublongis, crassis curvisque ; margarita argenteii et valde irides- 

 cente. 



Hab. — Rio Salado, New Leon, Mexico, L. Berlandier, M. D. 



Unio Saladoensis. — Tests, laevi, obovata, inflata, inaequilaterali, postice et 

 antice rotundata; valvulis subtenuibus, antice paulisper crassioribus; natibus 

 prominulis, laevibus ; epidermide luteo-olivit, polita radiataque ; dentibus 

 cardinalibus parvis, lamellatis, obliquis ; lateralibus sublongis, lamellatis sub- 

 curvisque ; margarita caeruleo-alba et iridescente. 



Hah. — Rio Salado, New Leon, Mexico, L. Berlandier, M. D. 



I860.] 




306 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



Unio cogxatus. — Testa laevi, elliptica, crassa, subinflata, valde infequilaterali, 

 postice obtuse angulata, antice rotundata ; valvulis crassis, antice crassioribns ; 

 natibus subprominentibus ; epidermide luteolaradiataque ; deutibus cardinali- 

 bus grandibus, crassis, pyramidatis, rugoso-striatis ; lateralibus subcurtis, sub- 

 curvis crassisque ; margarita albit et valde iridescente. 



Ilab. — Rio Salado, New Leon, Mexico, L. Berlandier, M. D. 



Descriptions of Seven New Species of TJNIONID^ from the United States. 



BY ISAAC LEA. 



. Unio Lesleti.— Testa laevi, obliqua, subcompressa, ad latere planulata, valde 

 inagquilaterali, postice angulata, antice rotunda; valvulis crassis, antice cras- 

 sioribus; natibus subelevatis ; epidermide luteola, radiis interruptis ; dentibus 

 cardinalibus crassis, compresso-conicis, obliquis ; lateralibus longis, crassis 

 subcurvisque; margarita alba et iridescente. 

 Hab. — Kentucky, Mr. Joseph Lesley. Tennessee, Mr. J. G. Anthony. 



Unio castus. — Testa laevi, inflata, insequilaterali, postice angulata, antice 

 rotunda, valvulis crassiusculis, antice crassioribus ; natibus subprominentibus ; 

 epidermide micante, luteo-viridi, radiata ; dentibus cardinalibus subgrandibus, 

 compresso-conicis, striatis crenulatisque ; lateralibus subbrevibus, rectis, la- 

 mellatis striatisque ; margarita alba et iridescente. 



Hab. — South Carolina, Prof. Tuomey. 



Unio Lindsleyi. — Testa laevi, elliptica, compressa, ad latere planulata, valde 

 inaequilaterali, postice subbiangulata, antice oblique rotundata ; valvulis sub- 

 crassis, antice crassioribus ; natibus prominulis ; epidermide vel lutea vel 

 luteo-oliva, micante, undique virido-maculata ; dentibus cardinalibus parvius- 

 culis, compresso-conicis crenulatisque; lateralibus longis, crassis curvisque ; 

 margarita alba et iridescente. 



Hab. — Tennessee, President J. B. Lindsley. 



Unio pekpictus. — Testa Isevi, elliptica, subinflata, valde inaequilaterali, pos- 

 tice obtase biangulata, antice rotundata; valvulis tenuibus, diapbanis, antic^ 

 crassioribus ; natibus prominulis, ad apices undulatis ; epidermide luteo-oliva 

 subnitida, undique virido-radiata ; dentibus cardinalibus parvis, erectis, co- 

 nicis, crenulatis, in utroque valvulo duplicibus ; lateralibus longis lamellatis 

 rectisque; margarita cseruleo-alba et valde iridescente. 



Hab. — Bull River, Tennessee, President Estabrook, and Holston River, Prof. 

 Troost. 



Unio Eightsk. — Testa plicata, quadrata, subcompressa, maxime undulata, 

 usque ad natium apices, valde inaequilaterali ; valvulis crassissimis, antice 

 crassioribus ; natibus elevatis, compressis, ad apices rugoso-undulatis ; epider- 

 mide tenebroso-fusca, eradiata, striata; dentibus cardinalibus magnis, crassis 

 et valde striatis ; lateralibus longis, crassis, lamellatis subcurvisque ; marga- 

 rita alba et valde iridescente. 



Hab. — Texas and Sabinas River, New Leon, Mexico, James Eights, M. D. 



Unio quadrans. — Testa laevi, quadrata, valde ventricosa, subaequilaterali, 

 postice obtuse angulata, antice subtruncata, valvulis crassis, antice paulisper 

 crassioribus; natibus elevatis, tumidis ; epidermide tenebroso-fusca, eradiata, 

 transverse striata; dentibus cardinalibus magnis, valde compressis, striatis 

 crenulatisque ; lateralibus longis, crassis curvisque ; margarita alba et iride- 

 scente. 



^aJ.— Texas, Mr. C. M. Wheatley. 



Anodonta Kenneklyi. — Testa laevi, elliptica, subcylindraced, subventricosa, 

 valde inaequilaterali, antice, subtruncata, postice biangulata ; valvulis tenuissi- 

 mis, diaphanis ; natibus vix prominentibus, ad apices exilissime undulatis ; 



[July, 




NATUKAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 307 



epidermide luteo-oliva, micante, ad margine striata, eradiata : margarita cae- 

 ruleo-alba et valde iridescente. 



Hab. — Chiloweyuch Depot, near Puget's Sound, Washington Territory, 

 C. B. Kennerly, M. D. 



Descriptions of Six New Species of UNIONID^ from Alabama. 

 BY ISAAC LEA. 



Unio SeowALTERii. — Testa lajvi, subrotunda, crassa, sublenticular!, aequila- 

 terali ; valvulis craasis, antice crassioribus ; natibus elevatis, tumidis ; epider- 

 mide tenebroso-fusca, eradiata; dentibus cardinalibus crassis, erectis, compres- 

 sis, in utroque valvule duplicibus ; lateralibus brevibus, percrassis corruga- 

 tisque ; margarita argentea et valde iridescente. 



Hab. — Coosa Kiver, Watumpka, Alab., E. R. Showalter, M. D. 



Unio Haetmanianus. — Testa Isevi, oblique triangulari, crassa, tumida, postice 

 subbiangulari, insquilaterali ; valvulis percrassis, antice crassioribus ; natibus 

 valde elevatis, crassis ; epidermide tenebroso-fusca, postice luteola, eradiata : 

 dentibus cardinalibus subgrandibus, erectis, compressis, corrugatis, in utroque 

 valvulo duplicibus ; lateralibus brevibus, percrassis, obliquis corrugatisque ; 

 margaritil argentea et iridescente. 



Hab. — Coosa River, Watumpka, Alab., E. R. Showalter, M. D. 



Unio dolosus. — Testa Isevi, obovata, subalata, subcompressa, ad latere pla- 

 nulata, postice et antice rotundata, valde insequilaterali ; valvulis subtenuibus ; 

 natibus prominulis, ad apices minute undulatis ; epidermide virido-oliva et 

 obsolete radiata ; dentibus cardinalibus parvis, compressis crenuiatisque ; 

 lateralibus longis, lamellatis subcurvisque ; margarita albida et purpurea, pau- 

 lisper tiucta et valde iridescente. 



Hab. — Alabama River, Claiborne, Alab., Judge Tait. Coosa River, E. R. 

 Showalter, M. D. 



Unio parvulus. — Testa plicata, transversa, subinflata, ad latere compressa, 

 postice obtuse angulata, valde inaequilaterali ; valvulis tenuibus, antice pau- 

 lisper crassioribus ; natibus prominulis ; epidermide olivacea, subvirido-macu- 

 lata ; dentibus cardinalibus parvis, compressis, crenulatis, in utroque valvulo 

 duplicibus ; lateralibus longis subrectisque ; margarita Ccerulea et iridescente. 



Hab. — Coosa River, Alab., E. R. Showalter, M. D. 



Uxio PLANCtJS. — Testa Iffivi, obliquo-ovata, subcompressa, postice biangulatii, 

 antice rotundata, valde inaequilaterali ; valvulis crassiusculis, antice paulisper 

 crassioribus; natibus prominulis; epidermide luteo-fusca, radiata; dentibus 

 cardinalibus parvis, erectis, crenulatis, in utroque valvulo duplicibus ; laterali- 

 bus sublongis subrectisque ; margarita caeruleo-alba et valde iridescente. 



Hab. — Coosa River, at Watumpka, Alab., E. R. Showalter, M. D. 



Anodonta Showalterii. — Testa Itevi, elliptica, ventricosa, postice obtuse 

 angulata, antice rotundata, subsequilaterali ; valvulis crassiusculis, antice pau- 

 lisper crassioribus ; natibus subprominentibus, ad apices minute undulatis ; 

 epidermide tenebroso-fusca, obsolete radiata; margarita. vel alba vel paulisper 

 salmonis colore tincta et iridescente. 



Hab. — Coosa River, Watumpka, Alab., E. R. Showalter, M. D. 



Descriptions of Three New Species of Exotic UNIONIDS:. 



BY ISAAC LEA. 



Unio occatus. — Testa plicata, elliptica, rugoso-occata, compressa, valde inae- 

 quilaterali, postice biangulata, antice, regulariter rotundata; natibus prominu- 

 lis, valde compressis, ad apices plicis, pulchris divaricatis ; epidermide luteo- 



I860.] 




308 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



olivi'i et valde rugosa ; dentibus cardinalibus parvis, compressis, obliquis ; la- 

 teralibus sublongis subcurvisque; margarita alba et valde iridiscente. 

 Hah. — Bengal, W. A. Haines. 



Anodonta Cailliaudii. — Testa laevi, rotunda, ventricosa, intequilaterali, an- 

 tice supevne angulata; valvulis crassis, antice paulisper crassioribus ; natibus 

 elevatis, tumidis, incurvis ; epidermide nigro-fusca, obsolete radiata, superne 

 micante, inferne exilissime striata; margarita argentea et valde iridescente. 



i7a6.~Brazil, Monr. F. Cailliaud. 



MrcETOPUS EiiARGiNATUS. — Testa Isevi, transversissime, compressa, emargi- 

 nata, ad latere planulata, antice inflata, postice arapliata et compressa; valvulis 

 pertenuibus, diaphinis, natibus parvis, prominulis ; epidermide luteo-cornea, 

 valde striata, nitida, eradita ; margarita caruleo-alba et valde iridescente. 



Z?a6.— Siam, S. R. House, M. D. 



Descriptions of new Fossil Eemains collected in Nebraska and TItali, by 

 the Exploring Expeditions under the command of Capt. J. H. Simpson, of 

 IT. S. Topographical Engineers, [extracted from that officer's forthcoming 

 report.]* 



BY F. B. MEEK. 



DEVONIAN SPECIES. 

 BRACHIOPODA. 



Spirifera NoRWOODt, Meek. — Shell rather small, semicircular, wider than 

 long, having its greatest breadth on the hinge line. Ventral valve very con- 

 vex at the umbo, sloping abruptly to the front and sides ; beak elevated, 

 rather pointed, and more or less arched over the area, sometimes a little 

 twisted to one side ; mesial sinus rather shallow, rounded, and extending 

 to the point of the beak, from which it widens and deepens very gradu- 

 ally' to the front ; area triangular, but wider than high, rather distinctly 

 arched ; foramen very narrow, and apparently entirely open, having a depressed 

 line along each lateral margin. Dorsal valve convex, but much more de- 

 pressed than the other ; mesial fold obscure in the umbonal region, slightly 

 elevated, and rounded at the front. Surface of each valve ornamented by 

 about forty small depressed, radiating costae, some six or seven of which 

 occupy the mesial sinus of the ventral valve, and seven or eight the fold of 

 the dorsal valve. Length 0'50 inch; breadth (along hinge line) about 0*75 

 inch ; convexity 0'42 inch. 



Named in honor of Dr. J. G. Norwood of the Geological Survey of Missouri. 



Locality and position. "West side of Buell Valley, lat. 39" 30' north, long. 

 115° 36' west. 



Spikifera Exgelmaxxi, Meek. — Shell rather small, semicircular, about 

 twice as wide as long ; hinge equalling the greatest breadth, angular at the 

 extremities. Dorsal valve depressed convex ; mesial fold rather narrow, 

 slightly elevated, flattened along the middle, and apparently without plica- 

 tions. Ventral valve very convex in the umbonal region, sloping abruptly 

 to the sides and front ; beak pointed, more or less arched ; area high, triangu- 

 lar, the hinge side being longer than the lateral slopes, which are usually 

 somewhat angular, generally rather strongly arcuate and inclined a little 

 backwards over the hinge ; foramen very narrow, apparently open to the point 

 of the beak; mesial sinus nan-ow, shallow, extending to the beak, flattened 



* Published bj' sanction of Hon. J. B Floyd, Secretary of War. More extended des- 

 criptions, with full illustrations will appear in the report. 



[July, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 309 



in the middle, and without plications. Surface ornamented by from seven to 

 nine depressed, rounded, simple, plications on each side of the fold and sinus. 

 Length of hinge about 0*66 inch ; diameter from hinge to front 0-39 inch ; 

 height of area 0-26 inch. 



Named in honor of Mr. Henry Engelmann, Geologist of Capt. Simpson's 

 Expedition. 



Locality and position. Neill's Valley, lat. 39° 32', long. 115° 36'. 



Spikifera macra. Meek. — Shell rather under medium size, subtrigonal, or 

 sub-semicircular, considerably wider than long ; hinge line equalling the 

 greatest width, and terminating in rather salient angles. Dorsal valve convex 

 in the middle, compressed towards the lateral extremities ; mesial fold narrow, 

 prominent and angular, especially near the front. Ventral valve more con- 

 vex than the other, sloping somewhat abruptly from the umbo to the sides 

 and front ; mesial sinus narrow, rather deep, with sloping sides, continued to 

 the beak, which is pointed and incurved ; area of moderate breadth, with well 

 defined sloping latei-al margins, apparently not continued quite to the extremi- 

 ties of the hinge, arched and inclined back over the cardinal margin ; foramen 

 triangular, higher than wide. Surface of each valve ornamented by about 

 eighteen to twenty-four moderately distinct, more or less bifurcating plications, 

 about six or seven of which usually occupy the mesial fold, and five or six the 

 mesial sinus. Length of binge, about 1"19 inches ; diameter from hinge to 

 front 0*63 inch ; height of area 0.16 inch. 



Locality and position. Same as last. 



CARBONIFEROUS SPECIES. 

 BRACHIOPODA. 



Productus semistriatus, Meek. — Shell of medium size, greatest breadth on 

 the hinge line, which is nearly twice the length, measuring from the hinge to 

 the anterior curve. (Dorsal valve unknown.) Ventral valve very gibbous, 

 extremely arched, and greatly produced in front ; sometimes provided with 

 an obscure, very shallow mesial sinus, which never extends to the beak ; ears 

 triangular, strongly vaulted, extended nearly at I'ight angles to the vertical 

 sides of the elevated visceral arch, from which they are each separated by an 

 oblique, undefined sulcus ; beak very convex, distinctly incurved, and ex- 

 tended a little beyond the hinge ; surface of the visceral region marked by 

 small, obscure concentric wrinkles, which are crossed by numerous, more or 

 less bifurcating striae ; anterior half, smooth or only marked by fine lines of 

 growth; spines rather long, erect and scattering. Length of hinge, 1'19 

 inches ; diameter from hinge to anterior curve, 0*72 inch ; length from the 

 beak to the anterior margin of the ventral valve, measuring around its curve, 

 2'14 inches. 



Localiti/ and position. Timpanogos Canon, lat. 40'^ 22', long. 111° 38', in 

 dark argillaceous rock. Probably of the age of the Coal measures. 



Productus multistkiatus, Meek. — Shell above medium size, breadth nearly 

 double the length, from the hinge to the anterior slope ; hinge line longer than 

 the breadth of the shell in front of it ; ears moderately large, triangular, dis- 

 tinctly vaulted, and standing nearly at right angles to the swell of the larger 

 valve. Ventral valve extremely ventricose, strongly arched, and provided 

 with a broad, deep, mesial sinus, extending from the beak to the front ; beak 

 rather small, compressed, and projecting little beyond the hinge. Dorsal 

 valve deeply concave, provided with three broad, obscure, radiating promi- 

 nences, one of which corresponds to the mesial sinus of the other valve, and 

 the other two radiate to the lateral margins in front of the ears. Surface of 

 both valves marked by numerous fine, obscure radiating strise, destitute of 

 spines excepting about three near the extremity of each ear, and some three 

 or four on the anterior slope of the ventral valve. Length of hinge near 1*77 



I860.] 




310 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



iuclies ; length from liinge to anterior slope 1 inch ; greatest breadth, in front 

 of the hinge 1'48 inches. 



Locality and position. Yellowish limestone series, east side of Long Valley, 

 lat. 39*^ 57' north, long. 115" 10' west. Probably of upper carboniferous age. 



Spieifeea scobina. Meek. — Shell rather large, subcircular, approaching sub- 

 pentagonal, moderately gibbous, length and breadth nearly equal, hinge line 

 scarcely equalling the greatest breadth ; lateral margins rounding anteriorly 

 and intersecting the hinge almost at right angles. Valves nearly equally 

 convex, each provided with from about seventeen to twenty-two, rather 

 broad, depressed, occasionally bifurcating plications. Ventral valve a little 

 more gibbous than the other, and having a shallow mesial sinus, which is very 

 small near the beak, but widens gradually towards the front ; beak moderate- 

 ly prominent, incurved; area of medium breadth, with nearly parallel margins, 

 extending to the lateral extremities of the hinge, distinctly arched near the 

 beak ; foramen having nearly the form of an equilateral triangle. Dorsal valve 

 moderately convex in the umbonal region ; beak rather prominent and 

 incurved ; mesial fold depressed, not distinctly defined excepting at the front, 

 where it is generally flattened. Surface of both valves apparently without 

 striae, but beautifully ornamented by numerous nainute regularly disposed 

 granules. Breadth 2 inches ; length 1*88 inches ; convexity !• 34 inches. 



Locality and po.<ition. Divide between Long and Ruby Valleys, lat. 40° 

 north; long. 115° 20' west, from the yellowish limestone series. Probably 

 upper carboniferous. 



Spieifeea pulchea. Meek. — Shell of medium size, more or less compressed, 

 length from one half to to one third the breadth : hinge line equalling the 

 gi-eatest width ; lateral extremities often much extended, compressed and 

 acutely pointed. Ventral valve more convex than the other in the umbonal 

 region ; beak rather small and not very strongly incurved ; area somewhat 

 narrow, very slightly arched, or inclined back over the hinge, its margins 

 being sub-parallel ; foramen triangular, a little higher than wide ; mesial sinus 

 narrow, well defined and rather deep, smoothly rounded within, extending to 

 the point of the beak, from which it widens very gradually towards the front. 

 On each side of the mesial sinus of the ventral valve, and its corresponding 

 elevation on the dorsal valve, there are from seven to nine, simple, elevated, 

 rather sharply rounded plications. Entire surface ornamented by fine regu- 

 larly disposed punctae and moderately distinct marks of growth, which latter 

 arch in crossing the plications and mesial fold. Length of largest specimen 

 1*13 inches ; breadth 3*10 inches ; convexity 0.76 inch. 



Locality and position. East and west side of Long Valley, and Pass east of 

 Ruby Valley, lat. 40* north, long. 115° 20' west. Geological position same as 

 last. 



CONCHIFERA. 



Pecten Utahensis, Meek. — Shell of medium size, thin sub-circular, much 

 compressed, apparently nearly equivalve, the left valve being slightly more 

 convex than the other ; ears small, subequal, triangular, and distinctly flat- 

 tened ; posterior ear truncate nearly at right angles to the hinge, sometimes a 

 little rounded on the truncate edge ; anterior ear separated from the margin 

 by a very shallow sinus ; surface of the left valve ornamented by rather 

 obscure, unequal, depressed, radiating costse, and numerous, extremely fine, 

 equidistant, thread-like, concentric lines, scarcely visible without the aid of a 

 lens ; right valve smooth, or only marked by fine concentric strise. Length 

 about 1*10 inches ; breadth 1*20 inches ; length of hinge 0.57 inch. 



Locality and position. Summit Spring Pass, divided between Long and 

 Ruby Valleys, lat. 39° 33', long. 115" 12' west. Probably upper carboniferous. 



CEPHALOPODA. 



Oktaoceras baculum, Meek. — Shell rather small, elongate conical ; section 



[July, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 311 



very nearly circular near the smaller end, and sligttly oval towards the 

 aperture ; sides diverging from the apex at an angle of 8° ; septa distinctly 

 concave on the anterior sides, separated by spaces equal to one-fifth their own 

 greater diameter ; siphuncle rounded, nearly, but not quite central, a little 

 less than one sixth the diameter of the shell ; s\irface apparently smooth. 

 Locality and position. East side Ruby Valley, lat. 40' north, long. 115" 

 20' west. Probably lower carboniferous. 



JURASSIC SPECIES. 



CONCHIFERA. 



OsTREA Engelmanni, Meek. — The collection contains only upper valves of 

 this species, all of which are much compressed, rather thin, and subovate, 

 more or less irregular in form. Beak distinctly truncate and provided with 

 a broad but short area. Surface ornamented by from seven or eight, to about 

 fifteen ii-regular, moderately distinct, rather rounded, radiating plications, 

 that do not usually extend upon the umbo, but become quite distinct at 

 the border, which is usually thin. Lines of growth regular, and moderately 

 well defined, but not imbricating. Muscular scar rather large, ovate and 

 distinct. Length (of the largest specimen) 3'50 inches ; breadth 3 inches. 



Locality and position. Jurassic beds at Red Buttes, on the North Platte, 

 lat. 42« 50', long. 106* 40' west. 



Pectex bellisteiata, Meek. — Shell of medium size, subcircular, sometimes 

 wider than long, thin, compressed, nearly or quite equivalve ; hinge straight 

 and very short ; posterior wing small or nearly obsolete, obliquely truncate ; 

 anterior wing small, vertically truncate at the extremity, and in the right 

 valve separated from the margin below, by a distinct more or less angular 

 sinus, from which a shallow flat groove, extends obliquely to the beak ; beaks 

 of both valves small, and rather compressed ; surface ornamented by numerous 

 fine, arched, bifurcating, striae, crossed by extremely small, closely arranged 

 concentric lines, which are often nearly obsolete on the radiating striae over 

 the more convex portions of the valves, but quite distinct in the slender de- 

 pressions between, to which they impart a punctate appearance. Length 

 (broad variety) 2"26 inches ; breadth, 2"65 inches ; convexity 0'64 inch. 



Locality and position. Same as last. 



GASTEROPODA. 



Dentalium ? subquadbatdm. Meek. — Shell small, thin, slender, regularly and 

 slightly arcuate, very gradually tapering, flattened or a little concave on four 

 sides so as to present a siibquadrangular section, the angles being a little 

 rounded ; section of internal cavity, circular ; surface apparently without lon- 

 gitudinal strife or marks of growth. Length about one inch ; diameter at 

 larger end 0-05 inch ; do. at the smaller extremity 0*02. 



Locality and position. Jurassic beds on the North Platte, at Red Buttes, lat. 

 420 50' north, long. 106° 40' west. 



CRETACEOUS SPECIES. 

 CONCHIFERA. 



Anomia concestrica, Meek. — Shell small, thin, subcircular or transversely 

 a little oval ; lateral extremities nearly equally rounded ; cardinal margin 

 rather straight or but slightly arched ; beak very small, central, compressed, 

 marginal, not projecting beyond the cardinal border; surface of upper valve, 

 ornamented by moderately distinct regular, concentric, undulations, and much 

 smaller obscure lines of growth. Transverse diameter 0-64 inch ; length 

 from hinge to the opposite margin 0*50 inch. 



Locality and position. Near Bear River, on Sulphur Creek, lat. 41° 12', 

 long. 110' 50', in whitish sandstone, with an oyster very similar to 0. ylahra, 



I860.] 




312 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Meek & Hayden, and a small Inoceramus. Probably of lower Cretaceotis 

 age, but may be older. 



Inoceramus Simpsoni, Meek. — Shell attaining a large size, transversely 

 elongate, or narrow, oval, gibbons in the umbonal and anterior regions, cnneate 

 posteriorly ; buccal side rounded ; anal side very long, usually broader than 

 the other, and subtruncate at the extremity ; base in young shells semiovate, 

 being more convex behind than in front, in large specimens rounding up very 

 gradually towards the front, and apparently a little contracted, or slightly 

 sinuous behind ; hinge straight, very long ; beaks rising little above the car- 

 dinal border, rather convex, located very near the anterior extremity ; surface 

 ornamented by moderately distinct, rather regular, concentric undulations, 

 which sometimes bifurcate on the flanks ; lines of growth small, regular, and 

 equidistant. Length S'lO inches ; height; 4-35 inches ; convexity about 3"72 

 inches. 



The specific name of this fine Inoceramus is given in honor of Capt. J. H. 

 Simpson, of the U. S. Top. Engrs., commander of the explorations for the 

 location of wagon routes in Utah, &c. 



Locality and position. North Platte above the bridge, from the horizon of 

 No. 2 or 3, of the Nebraska cretaceous series. 



TERTIARY SPECIES. 

 CONCHIFERA. 



Uxio VKTUSTA, Meek. — Shell rather thin, of medium size, nan'ow, much 

 elongated transversely, moderately convex ; anterior side rounded ; basal and 

 dorsal margins nearly straight and parallel ; posterior side very long, more 

 compressed and rather narrower than the other obliquely truncate above, and 

 angular below in young shells, but becoming more rounded with age ; beaks 

 small, much depressed ; located near the anterior end ; surface of young speci- 

 mens ornamented by fine, regular, concentric wrinkles, crossed on the umbo- 

 nal slopes of each valve, by two sharply defined angles, which radiate from 

 the beaks nearly or quite to the posterior extremity. On old and medium 

 sized specimens, these markings become nearly or quite obsolete, excepting 

 sometimes near the beak. Length of a large specimen 3*22 inches ; height 

 1'30 inches ; convexity about 0-60 inch. 



Locality and position. Brackish-water deposits on Bear River near the mouth 

 of Sulphur Creek, lat 41* 12' north, long. 110= 52' west. 



Uxio Hatdeni, Meek. — Shell small, subelliptical, rather thin, moderately 

 convex ; extremities more or less regularly rounded, the posterior margin 

 being sometimes obliquely subtruncate above, and more narrowly rounded 

 below than the other ; basal border semi-elliptical in outline ; dorsal side 

 nearly straight along the middle ; beaks very small, depressed nearly to a 

 level with the dorsal margin, not eroded, and apparently without wrinkles, 

 located about half way between the middle and the anterior end ; posterior 

 umbonal slopes rather prominently rounded ; surface smooth, or only showing 

 obscure marks of growth. Length 1-65 inches ; height 1 inch ; convexity 0*60 

 inches. 



Locality and position. Freshwater Tertiary beds, near Fort Bridger, and 

 south of there, at the base Uintah Mountains, lat. 41° 40' north, long. 110° 

 10' west. 



CoRBtTLA (PoTAiroiiYA ?) PYRiFORMis, Meek. — Shell transversely pyriform, 

 moderately thick, very gibbous in the anterior and umbonal regions, more 

 compressed and subrostrate behind ; buccal side truncate above from the beaks 

 obliquely forward, rounding rather abruptly into the base below ; posterior 

 side much narrower, and longer than the other, and very sharply rounded or 

 slightly truncate at the extremity ; base semiovate, being much more promin- 

 ent in the central and anterior regions than behind ; dorsal outline declining 



[July. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 313 



from the beaks at an angle of about 100°, the posterior slope being distinctly 

 concave. Beaks prominent, incurved, and located half vray between the mid- 

 dle and the anterior end ; lunule deeply excavated, but not defined by a distinct 

 marginal angle ; escutcheon lanceolate, rather deep and circumscribed by a mar- 

 ginal ridge ; surface marked by fine lines of growth, with sometimes near the 

 free borders a few concentric wrinkles. Length 1'30 inches; height 0*85 

 inch ; convexity (of a right valve) 0"39 inch. 



Locality and position. Brackish-water deposits, Bear River, lat. 40° 12' 

 north, long. 110° 52' west. 



CoRBPLA (PoTAMOirrA?) coNCENTRicA, Meek. — Shell ovate subtrigonal, gibbous 

 in the umbonal region, narrow and compressed, or subrostrate behind, not very 

 distinctly inequivale ; anterior side obliquely subtruncate above, and narrowly 

 rounded below ; ventral border semiovate in outline, being more prominent in 

 the central and anterior regions than posteriorly ; anal extremity very narrowly 

 rounded or subangular ; beaks elevated, incurved, and placed in advance of 

 the middle ; lunule oval and rather deep, though not distinctly circumscribed, 

 escutcheon narrow, impressed and well defined ; surface ornamented by fine lines 

 of growth, and small regular, equidistant concentric wrinkles ; (hinge and in- 

 terior unknown). Length about 1*40 inches; height 0-90 inch; convex- 

 ity about 0'65 inch. 



Locality and position, same as last. 



CoRBULA (PoTAMOMTA?)ExGELMANXi, Meek. — Shell rather small, transversely 

 subovate, gibbous in the umbonal region; anterior side rather narrowly rounded; 

 base semiovate, being more prominent towards the front than behind ; poste- 

 rior side narrow, and truncate at the immediate extremity, having a mode- 

 rately distinct angle extending from the back part of the beaks obliquely 

 backwards to the lower part of the slightly truncate posterior end, beaks de- 

 pressed, located in advance of the middle ; surface ornamented by small very 

 regular concentric wrinkles. (Hinge and interior unknown.) Length (of a 

 right valve) 0'39 inch ; height 0.21 inch ; convexity, 0*11 inch. 



Locality and position, same as last. 



GASTEROPODA. 



Melania hcmerosa. Meek. — Shell rather thick, sub-ovate ; spire conical, 

 not very much elevated ; volutions about five and a half, distinctly shouldered ; 

 and more or less angular, — last one comparatively large, rounded and con- 

 tracted below ; suture distinct ; surface ornamented by about fourteen rather 

 strong, regular vertical folds or costse to each turn ; folds obsolete on the 

 lower part of the body whorl, but becoming more strongly defined at the 

 shoulder, where they often terminate in spine-like nodes, so as to give the 

 whorls a distinctly coronate character ; crossing these folds or costae, there are 

 on each volution of the spire about four, and on the last whorl some seven or 

 •iight, regular, equidistant revolving lines, or small ridges. 



Locality and position, same as foregoing. 



Melania Simpsoni, Meek. — Shell elongate conical ; spire attenuate and 

 pointed ; volutions about ten, flattened or more or less convex, increasing 

 gradually in size, last one rounded below, suture sometimes linear, in other 

 instances more strongly defined in consequence of the greater convexity of the 

 whorls ; surface marked by fine lines of growth, and small slightly arched 

 vertical folds, which vary in size and regularity on diflerent specimens, and 

 are crossed by small obscure thread-like revolving lines ; aperture ovate ; 

 columella moderately sinuous below ; lip somewhat retreating above, and 

 prominent below the middle. Length 0*78 inch ; breadth O'BOinch; apical 

 angle nearly or quite regular, divergence about 26°. 



The specific name is given in honor of Capt. J. H. Simpson, Top. Engr's. U. 

 S. Army, commander of the Utah Exploring Expeditions, &c. 

 I860.] 




314 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



Locality and position. Higher Tertiary beds at Ham's Fork, north-east of 

 Fort Bridger, lat. 41° 40' north, long. 110° 10' west. Probablj miocene. 



Melania arcta, Meek. — Shell rather small, very slender, terete ; volutions 

 about twelve, flattened convex, increasing very gradually from the apex ; suture 

 distinctly defined ; surface showing an exceedingly slight tendency to develop 

 moderately broad, rather distant vertical folds, with faint traces of small re- 

 volving striae ; aperture ovate. Length 0*56 inch; breadth 0*17 inch; apical 

 angle regular, divergence 15°. 



Locality and position, same as last. 



Melania ? nitidula, Meek. — Shell subovate ; spire conical, moderately ele- 

 vated ; volutions about six and a half, rounded convex, increasing rather 

 gradually from the apex ; suture well defined ; aperture subovate, narrowly 

 rounded below and angular above, scarcely equalling half the entire length of 

 the shell ; surface marked by fine obscure lines of growth. Length 0.40 inch ; 

 breadth ; 0.20 inch ; apical angle convex, divergence about 40'^. 



Locality and position. Ham's Fork, freshwater tertiary, probable miocene. 

 Lat. 41° 40' north, long. 110° 10' west. 



Planorbis spectabilts. Meek. — Shell large, moderately compressed ; upper 

 side slightly convex, sometimes a little concave in the middle ; periphery 

 narrowly rounded below the middle ; volutions five and a half, increasing 

 gradually in size, wider than high, depressed convex and sloping a little out- 

 wards above, distinctly convex below ; about one half of each inner whorl on 

 the under side, and less than one fourth above, embraced by each succeeding 

 turn ; umbilicus rather deep ; and one third wider than the outer whorl ; (sur- 

 face and aperture unknown.) Greatest breadth 1-19 inch ; height 0*25 inch. 



Locality and position, same as last. 



Planorbis Utahensis, Meek. — Shell large, compressed discoidal, nearly flat 

 above, (sometimes slightly concave in the middle) and having a wide moder- 

 ately deep umbilical cavity below ; volutions five to five and a half, wider than 

 high, depressed and sloping outwards on the upper side, very narrowly round- 

 ed or subangular around the periphery, and convex, but not ventricose be- 

 neath ; suture rather shallow above, and deeper on the umbilical side : 

 about one half of each inner turn on the under side, and one fourth on the 

 upper, embraced by each succeeding whorl ; surface marked by fine, regular, 

 very oblique lines of growth ; aperture rather narrow, oval, and oblique. 

 Greatest breadth 1-20 inches; smaller do., 1-07 inches; height above 0.26 

 inch. 



Locality and position. Ham's Fork, same position as foregoing. 



LimnjEA vetusta. Meek. — Shell elongate sub-ovate ; spire rather slender and 

 pointed ; volutions five and a half to six, compressed or moderately convex : 

 suture well defined ; surface nearly smooth, with traces of fine lines of growth 

 scarcely visible without the aid of a lens ; aperture narrow ovate, rather nar- 

 rowly rounded below, and acutely angiilar above, equalling about half thp 

 entire length of the shell ; columella with a small comparatively straight fold. 

 Length 0.56 inch ; breadth 0-26 inch. 



Locality and position, same as last. 



LiMN^A siMiLis, Meek. — Shell small, narrow subovate, or subfusiform ; spire 

 moderately elevated ; volutions five and a half to six, conxex ; suture rather 

 deep, and oblique ; surface nearly smooth or only marked by fine obscnre 

 lines of growth ; aperture narrow ovate, rounded below and angular above, 

 equalling about half the length of the shell ; columella not much twisted, and 

 having a rather small fold. Length 0-39 inch; breadth 0*19 inch; apical 

 angle slightly convex, divergence about 38°. 



Locality and position, same as preceding. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 315 



Melampps PKISC0S, Meek. — Shell oval, moderately thick ; spire depressed 

 conical ; whorls about five, convex or subangular, last one comparatively large, 

 shouldered above, and tapering below the middle ; suture well defined ; sur- 

 face marked by rather obscure lines of growth, and small regular, vertical or 

 slightly oblique folds, which are distinct on the spire and the upper part of 

 the body, but obsolete below ; aperture narrow, angular above, and narrowly 

 rounded below ; outer lip apparently sharp and without teeth or crenulations 

 within; columella provided with one rather strong oblique fold below, and a 

 much smaller less oblique one about half way up the aperture. Length near 

 0*77 inch ; breadth 0-50 inch ; apical angle nearly regular, divergence about 

 80°. 



Locality and position. Estnary beds on Bear River near mouth of Sulphiir 

 Creek, lat. 41° 12' north, long. 110« 52' west. 



Notes on Coleoptera fonnd at Fort Simpson, Maokeazie Eiver, with remarks on 



Northern Species. 



BY JOHN L. LE CONTE, M. D. 



A small collection made at Fort Simpson, by Mr. Robert Kennicott, although 

 containing but few species, has seemed to me a convenient nucleus, about 

 which I could place certain notes derived from the study of other collec- 

 tions received from Russian America, through Prof. F. W. Maklin, and some 

 interesting specimens from Fort Jasper in the northern part of the Rocky 

 Mountains, kindly sent me by my learned friend, A. Murray, Esq., of Edin- 

 burgh. 



Species from Fort Simpsoit. 



Carabus Chamissonis Fischer. 



Opisthius Richardsonii Kirby. 



Platynus margin ellus, capite thoraceque nigro-piceis, hoc quadra to, 

 postice paulo angustato, et lateribiis paulo sinuato, margine testaceo reflexo 

 basi utrinque late impress© et subrugoso, angulis posticis obtusis rotundatis 

 elytris thorace duplo latioribus, piteis, subsenescentibus, basi emarginatis 

 striis hand punctatis, interstitio 3io punctis 5 vel 6 impressis, antennis piceis 

 pedibus dilutioribus. Long. '25 — "28. 



Several specimens sent. The elytra are sometimes pale, sometimes dark 

 piceous ; the intervals between the striae are rarely flat, usually moderatelv 

 convex ; the impressed punctures are tolerably large ; the under surface is 

 piceous, the base of the antennas and feet paler. This species resembles 

 P. anchomenoides more nearly than any other species in my col- 

 lection, but the thorax is more narrowed behind, with the margin uarrowlv 

 reflexed, and the sides somewhat sinuate towards the posterior angles. The 

 posterior transverse impression of the thorax is well marked, and the dorsal 

 line distinct. 



Pterostichus mandibularis; specimens in no wise differing from other*^ 

 found by me at Lake Superior, were sent me by Mr. Kennicott. The specie*^ 

 is very closely allied to Cryobius fastidiosus Mann, from Russian America, 

 but differs by the thorax being broader, with the sides more suddenly and 

 more distinctly sinuate at the posterior angles. 



Pterostichus Luczotii Lee. (Feronia Lucz. Dej. ; F. oblongonotataSay). 

 One specimen not differing from those found at Lake Superior. 



Pterostichus 6-pun ct at u s il/ann. Two specimens quite similar to thos^e 

 from Russian America. 

 I860.] 




816 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



Amara (Leirus) lacustris? Specimens almost precisely similar to' the 

 specimen from Lake Superior, were found at Fort Simpson and also on tte 

 Saskatchewan. The thorax is, however, somewhat less narrowed behind, and 

 the apex is sparsely punctured. 



Amara (Leirus) o b t u s a Lee, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. 7, 348. Amara Esch' 

 scholtzii Mann. Bull. Mosc. 1852, 297. The specimens sent by Mr. Kennicott are 

 larger than the one sent me by Mr. Motschulsky from Russian America, but do 

 not otherwise differ. It is perhaps Curtonotus latior Kirhij, Fauna Bor. Am. 

 36, but the descriptions of the species of this genus by Kirby are so indefinite 

 that reference must be had to the original specimens to determine the 

 synonymy. 



Amara (Celia) inters titialis Dej. 



Bembidium n i t e n s Lee. ; Peri/phus picipes J Mann. Precisely similar to the 

 specimens from Lake Superior, and Kadjak. 



Bembidium nigripes; Notaphus nigripes Kirby, Fauna Bor. Am. 57. This 

 species is similar in size and form toB. variegatum and B. patruele, 

 but diflfers by the feet and antennae being black, with the first joint of the latter 

 testaceous beneath. The strise of the elytra are also less deep, and more 

 finely punctured. The size is smaller than required by the description of 

 Kirby, but the color of the feet is so characteristic, that I can scarcely avoid 

 considering it as his species. Notaphus quadraticollis Mann. Bull. 

 Mosc. 1S53, 148, is probably the same. The Russian American one described as 

 B. nigripes by Mannerheim, is totally different, being much larger, with the 

 pale bands of the elytra very badly defined, and the epipleurse pale, resembling 

 these characters B. indistinctum Dej., from California; it difiers, how- 

 ever, from that species by the thorax being more strongly margined, with the 

 posterior angles more rectangular and prominent, and the basal carinas very 

 distinct ; the dorsal line and impressions are likewise deeper. In all these 

 respects it agrees with B. approximatum Lee, but difi'ers by the punc- 

 tures of the elytral striae being larger and less closely placed. The femora are 

 dark : in B. approximatum the legs are usually pale, though some- 

 times dark, in B. indistinctum they are always pale. The species will 

 hereafter be known as B. i n c r e m a t u m ; it diflfers from all the allied species 

 by the 7th elytral stria being obliterated and represented only by punctures. 



Bembidium nitidum Lee. ; Eudromus nitldus Kirhy ; a specimen pre- 

 cisely similar to one found by me in the Platte River valley. Bembidium 

 breve Mann., Bull. Mosc. 1852, 301, is closely allied to this species, and 

 on comparison may be found to be identical. 



Silpha lapponica Linn. 



Catops brunnipennis Mann. BulL Mosc. 1853, 176. 



Tachyporus j o c o s u s Say. 



Dicerca tenebrosa Lee, Buprestis {Stenuris) tenebrosa Kirby. 



Ancylochira maculiventris Lee. , Buprestis mac. Say. 



Upis ceramboides Fahr. ; Upis reticulata Say. 



Rhagium lineatum OUv. One specimen precisely similar to those from 

 Oregon and the Atlantic States. I am therefore strongly inclined to doubt 

 the specific value of the Russian American, R. investigator Mann. (Bull. 

 Mosc. 1852, 3j7) ; the characters given by him as distinguishing it are partly 

 individual and partly sexual. 



Chrysomela A d o n i d i s Pallas ; Phoedon Adonidis Kirby, Fauna Bor. Am. 



214. 



[July, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 317 



Haltica bimarginata Sa)/. The diflerence between this and Graptodera 

 plicipennis Mann, is not obvious on comparison. The species is abundant in 

 Kanzas, California, Oregon, and at Fort Simpson. 



Haltica i n se r a t a , oblongo-ovata, convexa, Eenea, nitida, thorace latitudine 

 duplo bi'eviore, autrorsum subangustato, lateribus parum rotundatis, convexo, 

 parce punctulato, linea transversa postica profunda, elytris parce subtiliter 

 punctatis, thorace paulo latioribus jione basin oblique impressis. Long "IS. 



One specimen. Resembles a nondescript but common species of the 

 Atlantic States, known in many collections as H. s p 1 e n d i d a , but differs by 

 the thorax being more transverse and somewhat narrowed in front. 



Hippodamia 12-p u n c t a t a Dej. 



Hippodamia 5-s i g n a t a Muls. 



Coccinella transverso-guttat a Fald. 



Notes on Russian American Species. 



Oalathus lenis. Anchomemts lenis Mann. I referred this species formerly 

 to Pristodactyla, but think that there is not sufficient reason for retaining the 

 latter genus. The present species is closely allied to C. ad vena Schaum, 

 Ins. Deutschl. 1, 389, {Pristodactijla advena Lee.) from Lake Superior, and 

 Maine, but in the latter the sides of the thorax are slightly sinuate behind, 

 whereby the posterior angles become less rounded ; among the specimens 

 found by me at Lake Superior is, however, one which does not differ in this 

 respect, and which appears entirely similar to the specimens fromKadjak. 



Schaum's statement from Chaudoir (1. c.) that Pristodactyla differs from 

 Calathus by the absence of furrows on the outer siirface of the four posterior 

 tarsi is not correct. Of the specimens of P. i m p u n c t a t a in my collection 

 one has the groove very strongly marked ; three have it distinct, though not 

 deep, while in the two others it is wanting ; of the two specimens referred by 

 me to P. corvina Lee, the groove is obsolete in one, and wanting in the 

 other. From these facts I draw two inferences : 



1. The genus Pristodactyla is to be suppressed. 



2. Many of the species of Calathus as at present recognized, are too indis- 

 tinct for systematic purposes, and are to be considered as races clustering 

 around a few principal forms. The species of North America may be arranged 

 as follows : 



A. Thorax postice hand angustatus, foveis basalibus obsoletis. 



1. Corpus elongatum, thorace latitudine baud brevoire, lateribus modice 

 reflexis. C. gregarius Dej. 



2. Corpus elongatum, thorace latitudine baud breviore, lateribus anguste 

 marginatis. C. iug r at u s Z)ej. ; C. incommodus Mann, (Russ. Am.) and C. 

 confusus Lee. (Lake Superior), are almost imperceptible races of this species. 



3. Corpus elongatum, elytris subopacis, thorace latitudine baud breviore, 

 lateribus modice explanatis. C. opaculus Lcc. 



4. Corpus elongatum, elytris subopacis thorace latitudine baud breviore, 

 antrorsum vix angustato, lateribus parum rotundatis vix explanatis. C. 

 quadricollis Lee. 



5. Corpus minus elongatum, elytris subopacis, thorace latitudine breviore, 

 lateribus valde rotundatis explanatis. C. Behreusii Mann. 



6. Corpus minus elongatum, elytris subopacis, thorace latitudine breviore, 

 antrorsum sensim angustato, lateribus parum rotundatis, explanatis. C, 

 obscurus Lee. 



7. Corpus minus elongatum, elytris subopacis, thorace latitudine breviore j 

 lateribus valde rotundatis vix explanatis. L, r u f i c o 1 1 i s Dej. 



18G0.] 21 




318 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



B. Thorax postice angnstatus, foveis basalibus latis ; (unguiculi subtilius 

 serrati.) 



8. Thorace margine latiusculo reflexo : a. lateribus postice subsinuatis, 

 C. a d V e n a Schaum ; 0. lateribus obliquis baud sinuatis, C. 1 e n i s Mann. 



9. Thorace tenuiter marginato, angulis posticis rotundatis, postice baud 

 transversim impresso. C. mollis Schaum. 



10. Thorace tenuiter marginato, postice magis angustato, angulis posticis 

 rotundatis, postice transversim impresso ; (major unguiculis vix obsolete ser- 

 ratis). C. dubia Lee. 



Anchomenus du Ic i s Mann., belongs to this division, and is most probably 

 a race of C. mollis, though this is merel7 a conjecture on my part, as I 

 have never seen a specimen of it. 



C. Thorax fere rotundatus, vel ovalis, foveis basalibus latis : (unguiculi 

 fortiter serrati). 



11. a. Thorace latitudine subbreviore, postice perparum angustato, C. im- 

 ptinctata Lee. {Feronia imp. Say; Pristodactyla americana Dej.) ft. Tho- 

 race longiore postice vix angustato, margine paulo angustiore. P. corvina 

 Lee. 



Trechns spectabilis Mann, and T. oblongulus Mann., are by no 

 means Trechus, but belong to Bembidium, forming a group between VIII, and 

 IX. (Proc. Acad. 1857. 4), characterized by the thorax subcordate, with the 

 basal fovese somewhat double, the elytral striae deep, the outer ones scarcely 

 abbreviated, the base of the antennse and the feet pale ; the last joint of the 

 palpi is longer than in the neighboring groups, but acicular and not at all 

 oonical. 



Euplectus parviceps Mdhlin, belongs to F a r o n u s Auhe. 



Corymbites caricinus Esch. = C. telum Lee. 



Cryptohypnus fall ax Mann. From this species C. piceacens Lee, 

 found at Lake Superior, seems scarcely to differ ; in the latter, however, the 

 punctures are a little stronger, and the size somewhat larger, but hardly suf- 

 ficient to establish a specific difference. The names were both published in 

 1853, but that of Mannerheim has priority by a few months, 



Rhagonycha binodula Mann, does not difi"er from Telephorus f r a x i n i 

 Lee. (Cantharis fraxini Say, Telephorus 7iigrita Lee), which is very abundant 

 at Lake Superior, and is found also in Pennsylvania. 



Notes and descriptions of other Northern Species. 



Calosoma laqueatum, robustum, apterum, nigro-seneum, capite thorace- 

 que punctulatis et rugosis, thorace latitudine duplo breviore postice angus- 

 tiore, angulis posticis productis subacutis, margine anguste reflexo, elytris 

 ovatis punctatis obsolete striatis costis tribus catenatis laevibus parum eleva- 

 tis. Long. 'SI. 



Saskatchewan. In sculpture resembles C. moniliatum Lee. and C, c a n- 

 c e 11a t u m Esch.; the former has the thorax much more strongly punctured 

 and the elytra oblong oval, and much narrower ; the latter is winged, and has 

 the posterior angles of the thorax less prolonged and broadly rounded, and 

 the elytra more convex, with the sides less rounded, 



Nebria m o e s t a Lee. I have received from Russian America two species 

 under the name N. Manner heimii Fischer. The one, received from Baron 

 Ghaudoir and Count Mnizech, has the sides of the thorax moderately rounded, 

 with the posterior angles rectangular and not very prominent ; the striae of the 

 elytra appear smooth, and the outer ones are less impressed at the tip. This 



[July, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 3] 9 



I take to be the true species. Tlie other, received from Mr. Motschulsky, has 

 the thorax broader, more rounded on the sides, with the posterior angles very 

 prominent, precisely asinN. metallica; the striae of the elytra are scarcely 

 less deep at the tip than at the base ; this specimen agrees perfectly with 

 those of N. m e s t a, found by me on the north shore of Lake Superior. I 

 have also a specimen from Oregon, and several were collected by Mr. Barnston 

 at Carlton House, Saskatchewan River. 



Platynus corvus, niger, nitidus, thorace latitudine breviore, lateribus 

 cum basi rotundatis, margine laterali anguste reflexo, postice paulo latiore, 

 foveis basalibus latis baud profundis, tuberculo valde obsolete notatis, elytris 

 oblongis thorace latioribus, planiusculis, basi emarginatis, striis profundis 

 impunctatis, interstitiis paulo convexis, 3io tripunctato. Long. '39. 



Black Hills, Dr. Hammond ; Saskatchewan. By the form of the thorax this 

 species exactly resembles P. atr a t u s Lee, except that it is a little broader. 

 The elytra are, however, broader, less convex, and more emarginate at the 

 base. The size is one half larger. 



Platynus crassicollis, elongatus, nigro-seneus vireseens, thorace ro- 

 tundato, margine anguste reflexo, foveis basalibus punctulatis, postice trans- 

 versim impresso, elytris thorace baud latioribus, striis profundis impunctatis, 

 interstitiis parum convexis, 3io punctis 4 vel 5 impressis. Long. '32. 



Jasper House, Rocky Mountains, Mr. A. Murray. Of the same form as P. 

 protr actus Lee, but smaller, with the thorax more convex, punctured 

 behind, and transversely impressed, and with the striae of the elytra deeper. 



Platynus picicornis, seneo-niger, nitidus, thorace ovali, latitudine 

 paulo longiore, margine tenui reflexo postice vix latiore, foveis basalibus latis, 

 angulis posticis valde rotundatis, elytris basi emarginatis, oblongis, striis im- 

 punctatis, interstitiis parum convexis, 3io 6-punctato, antennis palpisque 

 piceis, pedibus piceo-testaceis. Long. '24. 



Jasper House. Related to P. r e t r a c t u s Lee, but is much smaller, and 

 differs from that and all the others of that division by the characters given 

 above. 



Pterostichus validus Mann. Jasper House ; precisely similar to speci- 

 mens from Sitka. 



Pterostichus protractus, angustus, thorace latitudine fere longiore pos - 

 tiee angustato, margine distincto reflexo, later ibus late rotundatis, postice sub- 

 sinuatis, basi recte truncato, linea marginali profunda medio interrupta, 

 utrinque bistriato, stria externa brevissima, elytris thorace vix latioribus 

 planiusculis fortiter striatis, humeris denticulatis. Long. •52. 



Jasper House. Resembles by its form P. contractus Lee, but belongs 

 to a different group having the base of the thorax margined, with the margi- 

 nal line interrupted at the middle, as in P. validus, californicus, algidus, &c. , 

 than which this species is much more slender, with the thorax more narrowed 

 behind. 



Amara f a r c t a Lee Saskatchewan. 



Harpalus amputatus Say. Saskatchewan, Mr. Barnston. 



Harpalus carbonatus, elongato-oblongus, capite obtuso, oculis modice 

 prominulis, thorace capite latiore, latitudine breviore, postice subangustato, 

 lateribus late rotundatis, postice obsolete explanatis, angulis posticis rectis, 

 apice rotundatis, foveis basalibus parvis baud profundis parce punctatis ; 

 elytris (feminse) opacis, apice hand sinuatis, striis impunctatis, interstitiis 

 parum convexis, antennis palpisque piceo-rufis. Long. •40. 



Saskatcliewan. Similar in form to H. advena Lee, but the thorax has 

 the posterior angles less rounded. 



1860.1 




320 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



Bradycellus longiuscvilus Lee. ; Acupalpus longiusculus Mann. A spe- 

 cimen quite similar to one from Sitka, but captured at York Factory, was sent 

 me by Mr. Murray. 



Bembidium funereum, longiusculum, nigrum, 'piceo-seneo tinctum, tho- 

 race latitudine paulo breviore, planiusculo, postice modice angustato, lat- 

 eribus antice rotundatis, postice subsinuatis, foveis basalibus bistriatis, angulis 

 posticis rectis, carinatis, elytris ovalibus, paulo convexis, striis subtilibus, 

 7ma vix obliterata, 3ia punctis duobus notata, pedibus piceis. Long. 'lO. 



Saskatcliewan River; this species belongs to div. VIII. (Lee. Proc. Acad. Nat. 

 Sc. 1857, 4), but differs from all the other species of that group known to me 

 by the thoi'ax more narrowed behind, and the regularly oval elytra, as well as 

 by the piceous legs. 



Dicerca prol ongat a Lee. Trans. Am. Phi!. Soc. ii. 194. Saskatche- 

 wan River. 



Asaphes c ar bon a t us, ater subopacus, fronte concava, capite thorace- 

 que confertim punctatis, hoc latitudine paulo longiore, antrorsum subangus- 

 tato, lateribus late rotundatis, angulis posticis prolongatis subdivaricatis, 

 carinatis, fissuris basalibus brevibus, basi breviter canaliculato, elytris striis 

 profundis, interstitiis paulo convexis confertim punctatis, antennis articulo 

 3io 4to vix minore. Long. 'GS. 



Oregon or Rocky Mountains, one male. This species in size, form and 

 color, resembles the Oregon A. morio Zee, but the thorax is densely 

 punctured, and the elytra are also more densely punctui-ed. 



Agriotes m a c e r Lee. A specimen of this species, precisely similar to the 

 one from Oregon, was received from Jasper House. 



Podabrus g r a d a t u s , capite thoraceque testaceo-luteis, illo pone antennas 

 punctato, thorace latitudine sesqul breviore lateribus ante medium rotundatis, 

 late depressis, apice late concavo, postice convexo et canaliculato, basi mar- 

 ginato, angulis minutis dentiformibus ; elytris dense rugose punctulatis, sordid e 

 luteis, postice sensim infuscatis, subtus antennis pedibusque nigris, abdominis 

 margine, femoribus basi, coxis, antennarum articulo Imo palpisque basi rufo- 

 t>-staceis. Long. -48. 



Oregon or Rocky Mountains. The ungues are cleft, with the lower portion 

 but little shorter than the upper. The 2ud and 3rd joints of the antennae are 

 equal, and together are one-half longer than the 4th ; the first joint is reddish 

 yellow, with the tip black. The thighs are yellow at the base, gradually be- 

 coming dark at the tip. 



Tkicrania Lee. 



Under this generic name I would separate the North American species allied to 

 Horia. The genus has been indicated, but not named by Lacordaire, (Gen. Col. 

 f), 664, note), and differs from Horia by the triangular bead ; by the obconical, 

 scarcely comjjressed joints of the antennae ; by the mandibles not being 

 toothed ; by the last joint of the palpi being somewhat longer than the 

 penultimate, (in Horia the last joint is much shorter) ; and by the posterior 

 tarsi one-half shorter than the tibiae. The body is also somewhat hairy, 

 while in Horia it is glabrous. Three species are known to me, forming two 

 divisions. 



A. Body without wings. T. sanguinipennis; Huria sanguinipennis Say. 

 Middle States. 



B. Body winged. T. Stansburii; Horia Stansburii Hald., Utah: and 

 T. Murray!, niger opacus, alatus, capite thoraceque dense granulato-punc- 

 tatis, elytris elongato-oblongis, thorace baud latioribus, minus subtiliter 



[July, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 321 



rugose punctatis, macula utrinque basali rotundata, lateribusque pone quad- 

 rantem rufis. Long. -48. 



Rocky Mountains or Oregon. Of the size and shape of T. Stansburii, 

 but differs by the head and thorax being more finely and densely punctured: 

 the latter is also more transverse, and the sides converge slightly behind, 

 while in the other they are parallel. I take great pleasure in dedicating this 

 fine species to my learned friend, Andrew Murray, to whose liberality I owe 

 this and many other valuable additions to my collection. 



Acmaeops mollipilosa, robusta nigra, pube longa cinerea hand dense 

 vestita, capite dense thorace modice punctato, hoc convexo, apice constricto, 

 lateribus ante medium subito rotundatis, postice parallelis, obsolete canal- 

 iculate, elytris dorso subdepressis, lateribus oblique impressis, apice subob- 

 lique attenuatis dein obtuse rotundatis, violaceo-tinctis, minus dense punctatis, 

 punctis postice subtilioribus, pedibus dense fusco-pubescentibus, antennis 

 fuscis basi nigris. Long. -57. 



Oregon or Rocky Mountains. Resembles more nearly the Californian 

 A. 1 u g e n s Lee. than any other in my collection, but is sufficiently distinct 

 from that species by the more flattened elytra, with the sides strongly im- 

 pressed behind the humeri, and more broadly rounded, or even subtruneate 

 at the tips. 



Acmseops viola, robusta, nigra, pube brevi nigra parce vestita, capite 

 dense, thorace modice punctato, hoc convexo, apice constricto, lateribus 

 praecipue antice rotundatis, elytris. dorso subdepressis, apice obtuse rotun- 

 datis, minus dense antice fortius postice subtilius punctatis, cyaneo-viola- 

 ceis, antennis nigris. Long. •43. 



Oregon or Rocky Mountains. Smaller than the preceding, and differs by 

 the shorter black pubescence, the elytra more strongly punctured, less ini- 

 pressed at the sides, and more regularly rounded at the tip. 



Acmseops lupina, nigro-picea, pube longa fusca dense vestita, capite 

 dense subtilius, thorace minus subtiliter confertim punctatis, hoc convexo 

 apice constricto, lateribus subangulatis postice paulo concavis, elytris sub- 

 cylindricis, thorace sesqui latioribus, antice modice postice subtilius et densius 

 punctatis, apice rotundatis subtruncatis. Long. '48. 



Rocky Mountains. 



Chrysomela m u 1 1 i p u n c t a t a, Sa\j ; var. verrucosa Suffrian, Ent. Zeitung. 

 1858, 266. Carlton House, Mr. Earnston. 



Chrysomela subseriata, nigra, vix ajnescens, oblonga, alata, thoracf. 

 lateribus incrassatis rotundatis, sulco vago grosse punctato a disco separatis, 

 hoc subtiliter punctato, elytris thorace haud latioribus, disperse punctatis, 

 punctisque paulo majoribus seriatis, seriebus per paria minus distantibu.s. 

 Long. -32. 



Oregon or Rocky Mountains. The punctures of the rows are small and 

 closely placed, the rows are 9 in number and a short scutellar one. 



Oedionychis scripticollis Lee; Altica scripticollis Say. Saskatchewan 

 River. 



Synopsis of the Scaphidiidae of the United States. 



BY JOHN L. LE CONTE. M. D. 



Several years ago I wrote a synopsis of our species of the family of Coleopter- 

 ous insects here treated of, but the manuscript having been lost by the printer, 

 was not published. I have recently had occasion to study again this group, 

 and therefore now make known the species in my collection. The native 

 genera may be arranged in the following manner : — 



I860.] 




322 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



I. Scutellum distinctum ; antennae clavatse : 



Tibiae baud spinulosse. 



Tarsi postici articulo primo elongato ; oculi emarginati, Scaphidium. 



Tarsi postici articulo prime vix lougiore ; oculi integri, Scaphium. 

 Tibiae spinulosae ; oculi integri, tarsi postici articulo 



Imo elongato, Cyparidm. 



II. Scutellum thoracis basi obtectum ; antennae capillares : 



Coxae posticae late distantes : 



Antennae articulis tribus ultimis latioribus, B^oceka. 



Antennae articulis 5 ultimis latioribus, Scaphisoma. 



Coxae post, approximatae ; (corpus angustum, compressum) Toxidtom. 



Scaphidium Oliv. 



1. S. obliteratum, nigrum, nitidum, elytris gutta utrinque antica 

 externa, alteraque subapicali transversa lunata, parvis testaceis, stria suturali 

 profunde punctata basi arcuata, striis dorsalibus nullis. Long. •21. 



One specimen found near Evansville, Indiana. Larger than the other 

 species, and readily distinguished by the absence of the short rows of punc- 

 tures on the elytra, and by the small size of the elytral spots, which are yel- 

 lowish. 



2. S. 4-g u 1 1 a t u m , nigrum, nitidum, elytris macula magna pone basin, 

 alteraque ante apicali lunata rubris, stria suturali x^rofunde punctata basi arcu- 

 ata, seriebus parce punctatis internis ante medium notatis. Long. -16 — "18. 



Say, Journ. Acad. Nat. Sci. Philada., 3, 198. 



Middle and Southern States and Kansas. I am very much inclined to con- 

 sider this and the next two species as varieties ; there is no difference in form 

 or sculpture, but only in the spots of the elytra. 



3. S. 4-p ustu latum, nigrum nitidum, elytris macula lunata mediocri 

 pone basin, alteraque ante apicali rubris, elytris stria suturali profunde punc- 

 tata basi arcuata, seriebus tribus parce punctatis internis ante medium notatis. 

 Long. '18. 



Say, Journ. Acad. Nat. Sci. Philad. 3, 198. 



One specimen. New York. The elytral spots are much smaller than the 

 preceding, and both are transverse and lunate. 



4. S. p i c e u m , nigrum, nitidum, elytris immaculatis, stria suturali pro- 

 funde punctata basi arcuata seriebus tribus parce punctatis internis ante 

 medium notatis. Long. -18, 



Melsheimer, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. 2, 103. 

 Scaphidium A-guttatum var. Say, Journ. Acad. Nat. Sci. 3, 19S. 

 Middle and Southern States. In all these species the posterior tibiae of the 

 males are pubescent internally. 



ScAPHiuJi Kirby. 

 1. S. castanipes Kirby, Fauna Bor. Am. 4, 108, tab. 5, f. 1. 

 Canada. Unknown to me. 



Cyparicm Er. 



1. C. flavipes, (sub-ovale, convexum, nigro-piceum) nitidum, elytris 

 stria suturali punctata, basi breviter arcuata, seriebus utrinque 5 punctatis, 

 interna fere Integra, externis antice valde abbreviatis, humeris testaceo-tinctis, 

 antennis piceis, basi ore pedibusque testaceis. Long. -10. 



Southern States. Of the form of a large Scaphisoma : the last five joints of 

 the antennae form an elongate club, and the tibias, especially the middle ones, 

 have a few spines, small but distinct. The thorax has no basal punctures, 

 the sides are oblique and broadly rounded. 



[July, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 323 



B^ocERA Er. 



1. B. cone lor Er. Ins. Deutschl . 3, 4: Scaphidium concolor Fabr. Svst. 

 El. 2, 576. 



Unknown to me : described as being black, with piceous legs ; half the size 

 of the European Scaphium immaculatum, which is ^ inch long. 



2. B. a p i c a 1 i s , rotvindato-ovalis,convexa, nigro-picea nitida laevissima, tho- 

 race basi media prolougato, rotundato submarginato, elytris stria suturali baud 

 punctata, basi longe arcuata, margine apicali testaceo, auo piceo, pedibus 

 rufo testaceis. Long. -06. 



Middle and Southern States. The side pieces of the mesosternum are dis- 

 tinctly divided by an oblique line. The insect exactly resembles a small 

 Scaphisoma, but is at once distinguished by the shorter antennae having only 

 three enlarged terminal joints. 



Scaphisoma Leach. 



1. S. castaneum, castaneo-piceum, ovale convexum nitidum, thorace 

 subtiliter parce, elytris fortius parce punctatis, stria suturali antice longe arcu- 

 ata, postice, ano pedibusque dilutioribus. Long. 'IS. 



Lee. Pac. R. R. Expl. and Surveys, xi. insects, 14. 



Scaphidium castaneum Motsch. Bull. Jlose. 1845, 2, 361, tab. 6, f. 4. 



San .Jose, California. Larger and narrower than the next species, with the 

 thorax more distinctly punctured, and the antennae more thickened externally, 

 the 6th joint being not thicker than the 5th, and the 8th not narrower than the 

 adjoining ones. 



2. S. convexum, rotundato-ovale, convexum, piceo-nigrum, nitidum, 

 thorace subtiliter parce punctulato, elytris parce punctatis, stria suturali 

 antice longe arcuata, margine postico, ano antennis basi pedibusque testaceis. 

 Long. -11. 



Say, Journ. Acad. Nat. Sci. Philad. 5, 183. 

 Middle and Southern States, not rare. 



3. S. punctulatum, ovale, convexum, nigrum nitidum, thorace sub- 

 tiUssime punctulato, elytris subtiliter punctatis, stria suturali longe arcuata, 

 ore, abdomine, antennis basi pedibusque rufo-testaceis. Long. "08. 



One specimen, Georgia. Narrower and smaller than S. convexum, with 

 the fine punctures of the thorax more numerous, and the elytra entirely black 

 and more finely punctured. 



4. S. suturale, ovale, convexum, piceo-nigrum nitidum, thorace subtilissi- 

 me parce punctulato, elytris parce fortius punctatis, stria suturali profunda 

 arcuata, postice, ano antennis basi pedibusque testaceis. Long. "08. 



Middle and Southern States, smaller and narrower thanS. convexum, 

 with the sutural stria deeper. 



5. S. terminatum, rotundato-ovale, convexum, piceo-nigrum nitidum, 

 elytris parce subtiliter punctulatis, stria suturali arcuata, margine apicali flavo, 

 ano testaceo, antennis pedibusque flavis. Long. "06. 



Melsheimer, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. 2, 104. 

 Middle States, not rare. 



6. S. rufulum, ovale, convexum, rufo-castaneum nitidum, elytris snb- 

 tilissime parce punctulatis, stria suturali subtili arcuata, apice ano antennis 

 pedibusque dilutoribus. Long. -06. 



One specimen found at the junction of the Colorado and Gila, California. 



7. S. pnsillum, rotundato-ovale, convexum, nigro-piceum nitidum, ely- 

 tris obsolete parce punctulatis, stria suturali profunda arcuata, postice tes- 

 taceis, abdomine antennis pedibusque rufo-testaeeis. Long. "03. 



I860.] 




324 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



South Carolina and Georgia, Dr. Zimmermann. Very much smaller than 

 the other species. I have not considered it necessary to give detailed descrip- 

 tions of the species of this genus, as they only differ from each other by the 

 characters above mentioned. 



ToxiDiuM Lee. 



Antennae capillares, elongatEe, articulis 7-11 crassioribus, 8vo contiguis 

 angustiore ; thorax basi lobatus, scutellum obtegens. Coxse intermedias dis- 

 tantes, posticse parum distantes. Pedes tenues, tibiis baud spinosis, tarsis 

 posterioribus tibiis hand brevioribus, articulo Imo longiore. Corpus elonga- 

 tum compressum arcuatum ; mesothoracis pleurae quadratse, linea obliqua 

 haud insculptse. 



1. T. gammaroides, elongato-ovale, valde convexum, nigrum nitidum, 

 thorace latitudine sublongiore, lateribus obUquis, elytris obsolete parce punc- 

 tulatis, stria suturali tenui antice obliterata, margine apicali obscure testaceo, 

 ano, antennis pedibusque saturate testaceis. Long. -OS. 



Southern and Western States, not rare. A singular looking insect, having 

 much the outline of the small Crustacea known as Gammarus. 



Description of a New Species of CEPHALOPOD, from the Eocene of Tesas- 

 BY W3I. M. GABB. 



Sepia (Belosepia) u n g u 1 a . — Shell laterally compressed, especially poste- 

 riorly ; beak robust, acute, arcuate, and with a very faint ridge on the dorsal 

 lurface ; ventral plate smaller in proportion than in the other species of this 

 subgenus, slightly undulate and radiate, edge smooth and sharp: dorsal cal- 

 lus straight, deeply rugose, marked by about three irregular rugEe, and co- 

 vered on the face and sides with pits or cavities, which extend on the sides 

 almost to the base of the ventral plate, becoming gradually fainter until they 

 disappear ; cavity shallow, ventral edge sharp, interior marked by numerous 

 'compound concentric ribs crossed by very faint longitudinal lines. 



Length 1^ in.: length of rostrum f in. ; width of ventral plate | in., just above 

 the base of the cavity. 



Locality and position, "Wheelock, Texas ; from a deposit containing many 

 species found at Claiborne, Ala. 



This species resembles more nearly Sepia Cuvieri Desk., of the Paris 

 basin than any other, but it can readily be distinguished from it by the dorsal 

 ;alIosity, which, in our species, is not so prominent, and is comparatively sharp, 

 ^specially towards the extremity nearest the rostrum. The roughening of the 

 surface of the same portion is, in the Paris species, transverse, while in ours it 

 is longitudinal. The ventral plate is one-third smaller in the present species than 

 in S. Cuvieri. 



The type of this species belongs to the Smithsonian Institution. 



A letter from Dr. W. S. W. Eusclienberger, dated Philadelphia, 

 ■Tuly 26th, resigning his position on the Committees of Proceedings, 

 Publication and Conchology, on account of prolonged absence on of- 

 iicial duty, was read, and on motion the resis:nat,ion was accepted. 



[July, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 325 



August 1th. 

 Dr. Hays in the Chair. 



Thirteen members present. 



The following papers were presented for publication : " Descriptions 

 of new species of American Fresh-water Fishes, by Charles C. Abbott." 



"■ Description of new species of North America Reptiles in the 

 Museum of the Smithsonian Institution, Washington, D. C, by Robert 

 Kennicott." 



" Notes and Descriptions of new and little known American Reptiles 

 by E. D. Cope." ^ 



And were referred to Committees. 



The number of the Proceedings for July was laid on the table by 

 the Committee. 



Aicgust 14;A. 

 Dr. Hays in the Chair. 

 Thirteen members present. 



The following paper was presented for publication : " Contributions 

 to American Lepidopterology, No. G, by Brackenridge Clemens, M. D.," 

 And was referred to a Committee. 



August 2S tJi. 

 Vice President Bridges in the Chair. 



Twenty-two members present. 



Dr. Fisher announced the death at New York, on the 17th inst. of 

 Victor Gr. Audubon, a Correspondent of the Academy. 



On report of the respective Committees, the following papers were 

 ordered to be published in the Proceedings : 



Bsscriptions of new species of American Fresh-watsr Fishoj. 



BY CHARLES C. ABBOTT. 



1. Plargyrus melanocephalns Abbott. — Head large, broad; snout 

 very blunt. Body broad anterior to dorsal fin, rapidly narrowing posteriorly ; 

 dorsal outline greatly curved, making tbe depth of the body anterior to dor- 

 sal fin equal to one-fourth of total length. The eye large, circular ; diameter 

 equal to one-third the width of head. The distance from the posterior mar- 

 gin of opercular apparatus to edge of the orbit, is double that from extremity 

 of the snout to opposite edge of orbit. The nostrils, which have a double 

 opening, are situated on a line with the upper edge of the orbits. The mouth 

 is of medium size, tei-minal, the lower jaw the shorter. Small conical, acute 

 cornua arranged on the snout, generally in parallel rows ; a few on the lower 

 jaw, irregularly placed. The lateral line, commencing at angle of operculum, 

 is greatly decurved, approaching nearer the ventral than dorsal outline, 

 posteriorly. The anterior ray of the ventral fin directly opposite that of the 

 ventral fin, each ray being equidistant from the snout and base of caudal 

 fin. The tips of the rays of the ventral somewhat overlap the anus. The 

 dorsal fin is higher than broad, quadrangular ; caudal finis slightly bifurcated ; 



I860.] 22 




326 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



pectorals long, narrow and subquadrangular, tlie ventrals long, narrow and 

 tapering ; anal twice as long as broad, quadrangular. 



7 



The fin-rays are— D, 9. C, 20 - P, 14. V, 8. A, 7. 

 7 



Color. In alcoholic specimens, the whole head, posteriorly to the nape of 

 the neck, inky black. The opercle occasionally with a metallic reflection. A 

 black narrow band extends from opercle to caudal fin, above lateral line 

 anterior and below, posterior to dorsal fin. Body of a general gray hue, 

 darker on the back, and yellowish on the belly. A narrow black line on 

 peduncle of tail. 



Total length 2| inches. 



The specimens from which the description is taken, were procured by Dr. 

 .J. H. Slack, of Philadelphia, in June, 1860, at Lake Whittlesey, Minnesota. 

 From the number of specimens obtained, it is natural to suppose that it is, 

 in that district at least, a very numerous species. 



2. Cottus C o pe i J.66o<<. — Body subcylindrical ; its greatest depth is con- 

 tained six times in the entire length from snout to tip of caudal fin ; and the 

 least depth, at insertion of caudal fin, is contained thirteen times in the 

 entire length. Head twice as broad as deep, with its frontal length equal to 

 its width. The snout is obtuse. A vertical line drawn upwards, from the angle 

 of the mouth would pass anterior to the pupil. The eyes are circular, 

 medium sized, and the diameter is contained little more than four times in 

 the length of the head. The preopercular spine is strongly developed, curving 

 slightly upwards. A small acute spine on the subopercle. The gill openings 

 are oblique, large and separated under the throat by an isthmus of three- 

 eighths of an inch. The lateral line is distinct throughout its course ; it is 

 concurrent with the dorsal outline. The first ray of the dorsal is inserted 

 fifteen-sixteenths of an inch from the extremity of the snout, and extends on 

 a basis of one-third of an inch ; the origin of second dorsal is posterior to the 

 vent, the first and last rays shorter than the middle ones. The commence- 

 ment of annl fin is opposite the third ray of dorsal. The caudal fin is rounded 

 posteriorly, and is contained sis times in the entire length ; the middle rays 

 are bifurcated. The ventrals are inserted in a line with the centre of the in- 

 sertion of pectorals ; the tips of rays do not reach the anus, if bent backward. 

 The bases of the pectorals are crescent shaped, and the tips of the rays, if 

 bended backward, will reach the first ray of second dorsal, but not the anal 

 fin. 



The number of fin rays are D, 7—15. P, 12. V, 8. C, 14. A, 10. 



Color. Head and back of a varieii blackish-gray, with minute yellow spots ; 

 sides yellowish-gray, fading to pearly white on the belly ; sides marked with 

 very irregular dark gray lines. The fins partaking the color of the region to 

 which they belong, are sparingly dotted with deep black. Iris bronze. — 

 Total length 3| inches. 



Habitat. A small trout stream, a tributary of a tributary of Brandywine 

 creek, Chester Co., Pennsylvania. But one adult and one young specimen 

 captured. 



I dedicate, with much pleasure, this beautiful Cottus, to Mr. E. D. Cope, of 

 Philadelphia, by whom it was found, and kindly loaned me for description. 



PCECILOSOMA, Agass. 

 Gen. Char. — Head short and strong, rounded. Mouth little opened, pro- 

 portionately broad ; it is not protractile, though the maxillary bone be move- 

 able ; opercular apparatus scaly ; cheeks bare. 



3. P. tran s ve r s u m ^66o«. — Head and body compressed; nose acute. 

 Operculum terminating in a spine posteriorly. Jaws equal ; mouth broad. 

 Margin of jaws armed with very numerous, small, inwardly curved, sharp 

 teeth. The origin of the first dorsal fin is posterior to the insertion of pectoral 



[Aug. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 6Zi 



fin ; the ventral is also posterior to the pectoral, and is slightly anterior to 

 the first ray of dorsal. The origin of the second dorsal is situated slightly 

 posteriorly to the vent, and directly opposite the origin of the anal ; the ter- 

 minal ray of the anal is anterior to the terminal ray of second dorsal. Tlie 

 caudal fin is slightly rounded. 



5 



The numbers of the fin rays, are D ; 11—12. C, 16 - A, 9. V, 6. P, 11. 



5 



Total length. — 2 inches. 



Color. In alcoholic specimens, the general tint of the body is sienna, fading 

 into pale straw color upon the belly ; throat orange ; pectoral and ventral fins 

 orange ; the other fins partake of the color of the region to which they belong. 

 Fourteen bands of dark rufous, joined upon the back, cross the sides trans- 

 versely, and become obliterated upon the belly ; the intervening spaces are 

 double the width of the bands. 



Habitat. — Cabinet of Academy ? Lake Superior. 



A few specimens of this fish, with specimens also of a new species of 

 Pileoma DeKay, were presented by W. A. Hammond, M. D., to the Acad- 

 emy ; but the locality and date of presentation have been lost, and no 

 mention of the fish being presented is made in the 'Proceedings." The 

 only other described representative of this genus is the P. zebra Agassiz, 

 described in his work on Lake Superior, as a fish of those waters. This new 

 species may be from the same locality, but at present there is no means of 

 positively ascertaining. 



4. Pileoma cymatogramma Abbott. — Body cylindrical, slightly de- 

 pressed. Head small, facial outline oblique ; mouth rather large. The eye 

 is situated near the top of the head, with the diameter of the orbit equal to one- 

 third of the length of the head. The operculum terminates posteriorly in a 

 broad flat point ; the preopercle terminates posteriorly in a small, very acute 

 and conical spine. The lateral line is nearly straight throughout its course. 

 The insertion of the pectoral fin is anterior to that of the ventral, and that of 

 the ventral anterior to the origin of dorsal. The origin of the second dorsal 

 is opposite the primary ray of the anal fin. The caudal is slightly bifurca- 

 ted. 



4 



Tlie numbers of the fin rays are D, 13—12. C. 16 - P, 13. V, 7. A, 8. 



4 



Color. In alcohol specimens, the general color of the upper surface, light 

 rufous, fading on the belly. A broad, wavy band, mostly below the lateral 

 line, of dark rufous-brown. Numerous quadrangular, dark rufous spots on 

 the back and sides above the lateral line. 



Habitat. — Cabinet of the Academy. 



This genus diflfers principally from Poecilosoma, in having the cheeks and 

 opercular apparatus, both scaly. 



5. Ammocoetes aep y ptera ^66o«. — Body posterior to second branchial 

 aperture, compressed and tapering rapidly towards the tail ; belly, anterior 

 to the vent, flattened. The first dorsal fin arises somewhat posteriorly to the 

 centre of the entire length of the body, and is pyramidal in figure. The 

 second dorsal fin, joining with the caudal, is sm,aller than the first dorsal and 

 more acutely pyramidal in its figure. The caudal, whose origin is situated 

 opposite the vent, is higher than either dorsal fin, and decreases rapidly 

 towards the tail. Nape of the neck much elevated, and the facial outline 

 obliquely descending. Snout exceedingly prolonged ; mouth circular ; on the 

 inside of the upper lip there are three or four very small granules on each 

 side ; and at the opening of the throat small ramified papillae. The eyes are 

 very small and situated near the top of the head, equidistant between the 

 first branchial aperture and the angle of the mouth. The branchial apertures 



I860.] 




328 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



are situated in a longitudinal depression, oblique and sliglitly curved ; the 

 first aperture is situated in a line with the pupil, and is one-fifth of an inch 

 distant posteriorly. 



Total length, 5h inches. 



Color. In the alcoholic specimen, the head, back and sides are dark brown ; 

 the belly, clay color. Fins yellow. 

 Habitat. Ohio River. 



A single specimen of this new species of Ammoccetes, is in the cabinet of the 

 Academy, marked as procured in the Ohio River, and presented by Dr. Hil- 

 dreth. The peculiarities of the species are to be noticed in the remarkable 

 length of the head, and distance from the orbit to the first branchial aperture, 

 and also in the unusual size of the dorsal and caudal fins ; from which last 

 peculiarity the specific name is derived. 



Descriptions of New Species of North American Serpents in the Museum 

 of the Smithsonian Institution, Washington. 



BY ROBERT KENNICOTT. 



TANTILLA Baird & Girard. 

 T. NiGRicEPS Kennicott. 



Specific character. Form more slender and head narrower than in T. gra- 

 cilis. Vertical plate more elongate posteriorly, occipitals narrower. One 

 anteorbital, two postorbitals. Seven upper labials. Color (in alcohol) uni- 

 form brownish white above, lighter beneath. Crown as far as behind the 

 occipitals deep black ; no indication of a post-occipital black ring as in T. 

 coronata. 



4491, Fort Bliss, New Mexico. Dr. Crawford. 



2046, Indianola to Nueces, Texas. Capt. Pope. 



DIADOPHIS Baird & Girard. 

 D. Texensis Kennicott. 



Spec. char. Dorsal scales in fifteen longitudinal rows. Color above uniform 

 leaden or bluish black ; beneath light yellow, irregularly spotted with black. 

 Under jaws spotted. A yellowish occipital ring one and a half or two scales 

 wide. 



Descr. Form moderately slender. Head rather narrow, with the crown 

 slightly arched ; snout narrow and depressed. Vertical plate small, tapering 

 posteriorly ; superior labials seven. Eye proportionally large. Outer row of 

 dorsal scales slightly the largest. Color above leaden or bluish black, the 

 crown darker. AsinD. punctatus, the edges of the upper labial shields 

 are yellow, like the lower, but the latter are thickly spotted with black. The 

 abdomen is usually irregularly spotted with black over its whole surface, 

 though in some specimens there is a tendency to form a medial row as in D. 

 punctatus. The under surface of the tail is tinged with reddish. 



1897, East of Galveston, Texas. Prof. Andrews. 



2*^76, Head of Trinity River, Texas. Capt. Pope. 



2079, Llano Estacado. Capt. Pope. 



2155, Monticello, Mississippi. Miss H. Tennison. 



This will be distinguished from D. punctatus by its more slender form, 

 arched crown and narrow snout, by the numerous and irregular spots on the 

 abdomen, and especially those on the mandibular and mental plates. 



LAMPROPELTIS Fitzinger. 

 L. MrLTisTBiATA Keunicott. 

 Sjj. char. Dorsal scales in twenty-three rows. Form similar to that of L. 



[Aug. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 329 



g e n t i 1 i s , but the head and eye larger. Color a.bore brownish red, with 

 thirty-one pairs of narrow black half-rings enclosing white spaces, from head 

 to anus. The black rings not extending across the abdomen, which is uni- 

 form yellowish white. Head black above. 



Descr. Snout broader and more depressed than in L. gen til is . It is 

 also more elongate, and hence, also, the loreal and nasal plates ; in the only 

 specimen examined the second superior labial plate is replaced by two smaller 

 ones, thus increasing the number to eight, a peculiarity probably abnormal, 

 as all the other species of the genus have seven. The body above is brownish 

 red in spirits, crossed by thirty-one pairs of black rings from head to anus. 

 The enclosed white spaces are one and a half scales wide on the central fifteen 

 dorsal rows, and begin to widen abruptly on the fourth lateral row on each 

 side, extending over three or four scales longitudinally on the first row. On 

 the sides they are pnnctulated with blnck as in L. g e n t i 1 i s . The occipital 

 white ring is much broader. The black rings are each two scales wide on the 

 vertebral region, narrowing to less than one scale laterally. On the fourth 

 lateral row the two rings of each pair begin to diverge, the anterior uniting 

 on the edge of the abdomen with the posterior ring of the pair in advance, the 

 posterior becoming confluent with the anterior of the succeeding pair. Thus 

 the ground color is enclosed in the form of a transverse elliptical spot. Upon 

 the middle of the body these spots are two or three scales wide on the verte- 

 bral region, four or five on the sides, and but one on the first row of scales. 

 Anteriorly the red intervals are greater ; posteriorly they narrow slightly, but 

 toward the tip of the tail they are entirely lost, as in L. doliatus and 

 gentilis, by the confluence of the black rings. The black rings extend 

 but a short distance upon the abdominal scuta, leaving the abdomen destitute 

 of blotches, though it is faintly and sparsely punctulated. The chin and in- 

 ferior labials are tinged with brown. The top of the head is black as in L. 

 gentilis. 



No. 1842, Fort Lookout, Nebraska. Lieut. Warren and Dr. Hayden. 



The number of rows of scales and the more numerous rings will distinguisJi 

 this species from L. anniilatus, and those above compared with it. 



L. ANNTJLATA Kennicott. 



Spec. char. Form stout, head broad, eye small. Scales short and broad. 

 Color bright red, with eighteen to twenty-two pairs of black rings from head 

 to anus, each pair enclosing an immaculate yellow ring which completely en- 

 circles the body, widening but little upon the flanks. Abdomen between the 

 yellow rings black. Top of head entirely black, this color extending posteri- 

 orly upon the occipitals in an acute angle. A broad occipital yellow ring. 



Descr. General ai)pearance similar toL. gentilis. The form is stouter, 

 the head shorter, broader and more depressed, and the eye smaller. The 

 dorsal scales are very difi'erent, being much broader; the lateral rows in L. 

 annulatus, are higher than long, and those of the central are nearly as 

 wide as long. InL. gentilis, those of the lateral rows are considerably 

 longer than high, and those of the central nearly twice as long as wide. There 

 are twenty pairs of black rings from head to vent, which do not diverge on 

 the sides ; each ring covering two to two and a half scales longitudinally on 

 the vertebral region and narrowing but little laterally. The enclosed yellow 

 rings are one and a half scales wide on the vertebral region. The first three pairti 

 of black rings behind the head are, with those enclosed, a little wider. The 

 intervals of red ground-color occupy four or five scales on the middle of the 

 body, and one or two more anteriorly and posteriorly. The yellow rings are 

 of nearly uniform width, and completely surround the body. The spaces be- 

 tween them on the abdomen are black. There are no black spots upon the 

 body. 



Type No. 4293, Matamoras, Mexico. Lieut. Couch, 



425, Mexico. Paris Museum. 



I860.] 




330 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



A small specimen from Brownsville, Texas, (No. 1855), with twenty-one 

 pairs of black rings from head to anus, has the yellow rings rather wider on 

 the abdomen, though not two scales wide on the first dorsal row, — and the 

 black rings distinct ; the enclosed abdominal intervals are only black along 

 the middle. Otherwise similar to the above. 



SCOTOPHIS Baird & Girard. 

 S. OBSOLETPS Kennicott. Coluber obfoletus Say, in Long's Exped. Rocky 

 Mountains, i. p. 140, 1823 ; not Coluber obsoletus "Say," Holbrook, Am. 

 Herp. iii. 1842, p. 61. 



Spec. char. Head broad behind, tapering anteriorly, snout more pointed 

 than in S. Allegheni ensis . Head much more elevated anteriorly. Na- 

 sals, loral, anteorbital. and anterior upper labials elevated. Vertical large 

 anteriorly, nearly as broad as long. Superciliaries and occipitals large. Scales 

 in twenty-five or seven rows, the central ones moderately carinated. Color 

 above entirely black, with a slight bluish olive tinge. Upon stretching the 

 skin, the spaces between the scales seem to be red. Abdomen light bluish 

 slate posteriorly ; anteriorly, yellowish, clouded with bluish slate, lighter than 

 inS. Allegheniensis. 



Def!cr. This species resembles S. Allegheniensis very closely, ren- 

 derino' a comparative description necessary". Head broad behind, more elon- 

 gate and elevated in front than inS. Allegheniensis, hence the occipitals 

 are larger, and the nasals, loral, preocular, and anterior upper labials are 

 more elevated. The anterior frontals are smaller, though the external poste- 

 rior angles are more elongated ; the anteorbital is narrower. Posterior orbi- 

 tals rather larger ; vertical large, anterior breadth nearly equal to the length. 

 Four or five external rows of scales smooth, the first largest, with the scales 

 less o1>tuse than in S. Allegheniensis. The head and entire upper 

 parts are uniform black, not pitchy asinS. Allegheniensis, but with a 

 slight tinge of olivaceous or brown. Upon stretching the skin the spaces be- 

 tween the scales and sometimes the covered bases of the latter are seen to be 

 of a brit'ht reddish brown on the sides, and in bars across the back, enclosing 

 a vertebral series of pure black spaces which are analogous to the dorsal spots 

 sometimes seen in S. Allegheniensis. No trace of these markings is to 

 be seen in our specimens of the present species without stretching the skin, 

 though one of them is but about three feet in length. 



The abdomen is much lighter than inS. Allegheniensis; the posterior 

 space occupied by the light bluish slate color is less. Along the middle third 

 it is yellowish, heavily clouded with bluish slate, and anteriorly it is yellow, 

 with irregular clouded spots of bluish slate along the sides. Thf^se anterior 

 markings are much smaller than in Allegheniensis, and never in large 

 square blotches as in that species. 



Though so closely allied to Allegheniensis as not to be readily dis- 

 tinguished by absolute characters, except in the red spaces between the scales, 

 the differences in the form of the head, and generally lighter colors, will be 

 apparent at once upon comparison. 



Independence, Mo. Dr. J. G. Cooper. 



EUT^NIA Baird & Girard. 

 E. MEGALOPS Kennicott. 



Spec. char. Form shorter and stouter, with proportionally shorter tail than 

 inE. proxima, which this species resembles. Tail one-fourth of the total 

 length. Eye very large, greater than in E. proxima. First dorsal row of 

 scales broader, each scale as high as long, and less strongly carinate. Dorsal 

 stripe narrow, covering one and less than two half rows of scales. Color 

 uniform brownish ash, with the three longitudinal stripes whitish yellow. 

 Head olive ash. 



Descr. Color uniform dull brownish ash or clay color, with the dorsal and 



[Aug. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 331 



lateral stripes whitish yellow. A few of the scales have narrow black spots on 

 their edges, but these are not prominent, and never extend over a scale, ap- 

 pearing as indistinct niottlings of black on the ground color, always on the 

 rows next the stripes. The head above is light olive ash. The lateral stripe 

 is on the third and fourth rows, and is narrower than in E. p r o x i m a , cov- 

 ering rather less than two half scales. The color below the lateral stripe is a 

 little lighter than that of the back. The exterior dorsal row is much wider 

 than in any of the allied species, each scale being as high as long. The second 

 row is much narrower, though a little wider than the third. The eye is strik- 

 ingly large, and the superciliaries are raised, rendering the fore part of the 

 crown an inclined plane, yet the muzzle is higher than in E. p r o x i m a . 



No. 965, Tucson and St. Magdalena, 1(30, 8(3, 21, 24, 6. Major Emory. A. 

 Schott. 

 E. MACRosTEMiiA Keunicott. 



Spec. char. Twenty-one rows of scales. Body rather stout. Head small, 

 narrow posteriorly. Vertical plate much elongated, twice as long as wide. 

 Eight upper labials, sixth largest, seventh sometimes equal. All the dorsal 

 scales broad and short, first row largest, its scales as high as long and slightly 

 carinate ; second smaller, biit much broader than the third. Ground color 

 above very dull yellowish brown. Dorsal stripe broad, light brownish, but 

 little lighter than the ground color, and with an indistinct black border. La- 

 teral stripe on the fourth and part of the third row, indistinct, dull yellowish 

 green. Two series of indistinct broken spots along the second and sixth 

 rows. 



Descr. The dorsal stripe is broad and regular, covering nearly three rows, 

 but is dull and indistinct. On each side of it for one and a half scales there 

 is a rather indistinct black border, somewhat as in E. o r d i n o i d e s . Below 

 this to the fourth row the color is dull greenish brown. On the fifth and sixth, 

 rows there is a series of indistinct black spots, each covering three scales, 

 whose keels are of the ground color. This is also the case with the scales in 

 the black border of the dorsal strij^e. The lateral sjjots are one and a half 

 scales wide, and separated by spaces of the same width. The third and fourth 

 rows, particularly the fourth, are lighter, and of a yellowish green or olive 

 color ; the first and second and lower edge of third being a little darker, suffi- 

 ciently define the lateral stripe. On about every other scale of the second 

 row is a series of broken and irregular black spots, formed by the black mar- 

 gin of each side of the scales ; extremely slight as to the contiguous scales. 

 Each abdominal scutum is distinctly edged with black anteriorly, (of course 

 concealed by the incumbent scutum), and some are tipped with black at their 

 extremities, otherwise the abdomen is immaculate. In one specimen it is 

 uniform dark green ; in another, uniform yellowish green. The head is dark 

 brown above, the superior labials but little lighter, and narrowly bordered 

 with black posteriorly. 



One specimen, upon the removal of the epidermis, appears entirely of a 

 pale creamy yellow throughout, but with the black markings, including the 

 border of the dorsal stripe, very distinct. Another specimen is green instead 

 of whitish yellow. 



City of Mexico. Maj. W. Rich. 



This is a very well marked species, and readily distinguished. In color it 

 bears some resemblance to some varieties ofE. ordinoides and d o r s a - 

 lis, but it belongs to a differeDt section of the genus, as indicated by the 

 position of the lateral stripe. It is otherwise dilferent from E. ordinoides, 

 in having a very much smaller head and larger vertical plite, the dorsal 

 scales wider, and the stripe more indistinct. From E. Marciana it differs 

 in its very much smaller head and longer vertical plate, in its broader dorsal 

 band, bordered by a stripe instead of a row of spots, and in the absence of 

 the post oral crescentic patch, and broad black borders of upper labials. 

 I860.] 




332 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



E. Hammondii Kennicott. 



Spec. char. Twenty-one rows of scales. Form rather slender ; head long, 

 narrow posteriorly ; snout elongate and narrow, but rather obtuse. Postorbi- 

 tals three, the upper much the largest. Eight upper labials, sixth largest ; 

 its postero-inferior angle much elongated. No dorsal stripe ; lateral stripe 

 olive yellow on the second and third rows. Back uniform dark olive brown 

 or blackish, without distinct spots. Abdomen whitish olive, lighter anteri- 

 orly, and a dark line along the middle posteriorly. 



Descr. Form rather slender, the tail about one-fourth the total length. 

 Head very narrow and much elongated ; the snout very narrow, but rather 

 obtuse. The back above the third row of scales is very dark uniform olive 

 brown without spot or band, except a light medial line extending about an 

 nch back of the head. Lateral stripe light olivaceous yellow; first row of 

 scales a little darker, and similar to the ab lomen, being of a very dull whitish 

 olive. Bases of the scales of the first row black ; bases of abdominal scutes 

 the same, the color broader tov/ard their extremities, and generally concealed 

 by the incumbent scute. A narrow slate-colored Line along the middle of the 

 abdomen posteriorly. Head above dark olive ; superior labials very light 

 olive yellow, margined with black posteriorly, excepting the eighth. This is 

 black anteriorly, its posterior end being occupied by a yellowish patch which 

 is confluent with the yellow of the neck. Lower postorbitals yellow. Two 

 small yellow ociipital dots, and a small yellow dot on each side of the poste- 

 rior part of the vertical plate ; these sometimes absent. 



Young specimens, and older ones, after the removal of the epidermis, ex- 

 hibit faint indications of a very narrow dorsal stripe upon a single row of 

 scales, but in one there is no trace of this, even upon the neck, where it is 

 usually visible These specimens also exhibit traces of two series of large 

 alternating spots, which present somewhat the appearance of a zigzag line. In 

 a young specimen there is a distinct series of spots on the first dorsal row, 

 each spot covering one scale, and separated from those adjacent by two scales. 

 Only one specimen is without the dark line upon the abdomen posteriorly. 

 There are no irregular black blotches upon the abdomen as in E. a n g u s t i - 

 ros t r is . 



San Diego. Dr. .J. F. Hammond. 



Fort Tejon. J. Xantus. 



This species is strongly marked, and will hardly be confounded with any 

 at present known. It resembles most nearly E. angustirostris, under 

 the head of which species the comparative differences are given in full. Two 

 young specimens labelled by Dr. Hallowell " Tropidonotus ordinatus, " belong 

 here. Eutseuia ordinata has a stouter body and head, and more pointed 

 snout. There are nineteen dorsal rows, and a very different system of colora- 

 tion. 



E. AXGusTiROSTRis Keunicott. 



Spec. char. Body moderately stout ; tail less than one-fourth the total 

 length, and very small. Head exceedingly elongated and narrow, more so 

 than any other of the genus ; snout very long, narrow and pointed. Crown 

 plane above ; eye large. Upper labials eight, sixth largest, seventh scarcely 

 smaller. Dorsal rows twenty-one ; outer row large, very faintly carinated, 

 the second smaller but broader than the third ; tlie next rather large and 

 elongated, and strongly carinated. Dorsal stripe narrow, very indistinct. An 

 indistinct, dull whitish lateral stripe on the second and third rows. Above 

 the lateral stripes dark olive brown or black. Abdomen dark ashy olive or 

 black. 



Descr. The back above the third row of scales is dark olive brown without 

 spots, bat with each scale borlered with darker. The scales of the second 

 and third rows are greyish olive, with distinct yellow borders. The first row 

 and abdomen are ashy olive, with irregular heavy black blotches upon the 



[Aug. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 333 



latter, more numerous along the middle third, but offering no indication of a 

 narrow black line as in E. Hammondii. On the first three rows some 

 scattered scales have black spots on their bases and edges. Head above dark 

 olive ; upper labials light olive with vertical black edgings. 



A young specimen is entirely black ; the dorsal stripe obsolete, being indi- 

 cated only by a faint line on a single row of scales ; the lateral stripes very 

 indistinct ; the first and part of the second row of scales entirely black. A 

 whitish line along each side of the abdomen formed by a white spot at the 

 end of each scute. These are also margined posteriorly with the same color. 

 Throat whitish. 



The remarkable elongation of the snout will distinguish this species from 

 any others at present known, excepting E. leptocephala and Ham- 

 mondii, from which it diflfers in other respects. The snout is more elon- 

 gated, and decidedly more pointed than in either ; the head is not at all de- 

 pressed anteriorly asiuE. leptocephala, and the eye is strikingly larger. 

 The colors of the back and abdomen are darker, and the rows of scales are 

 twenty-one, not nineteen. As compared with E. Hammondii, which it 

 most nearly resembles, beside the diflference in the form of the snout, the head 

 is depressed posteriorly (not anteriorly); hence the crown is quite plane 

 throughout, while in E. Hammondii the crown is somewhat arched, — 

 this form being more observable upon the occipital and frontal (vertical) re- 

 gion. In angustirostris the general form is stouter, while the head is 

 longer, and hence a greater elongation of the vertical and frontal plates. The 

 scales of the upper rows are also larger and more elongated, and more strongly 

 carinate. The tail is shorter, being considerably less than one-fourth the to- 

 tal length, while in Hammondii it is fully or more than one-fourth. This 

 member is also very slender, the body tapering abruptly near the anus in the 

 former species. The dorsal stripe, though narrow, is not wanting, and the 

 abdomen is much darker, being ashy olive with heavy black blotches through- 

 out instead of light yellow or greyish olive, and there is no indication of the 

 central line. The young black specimen is strikingly different from the young 

 of E. Hammondii. 



Parras, Coahuila, Mexico. Lieut. Couch. 



E. CYETOPSis Kennicott. 



Spec. char. Form very slender, but little stouter than that of E, s a u r i t a, 

 but with shorter tail, one-fourth the total length. Head large. Eye very 

 large. Superior labials eight, sixth and seventh largest. Three postorbitals, 

 upper much the largest. Scales in nineteen rows. Color above olive brown, 

 with two alternating series of elongated spots between the stripes, giving the 

 appearance of a zigzag line. Dorsal stripe whitish, narrow, distinct to the 

 tip of the tail. Lateral stripe on the second and third rows, of the same color, 

 broad, distinct from head to anus. A series of black spots on the first dorsal 

 row ; abdomen uniform greenish white. Orbitals whitish ; occipital spots 

 obsolete. 



Descr. This species somewhat resembles E. Marciana in the pattern of 

 coloration, which, however, has the lateral stripe upon the third row only, 

 instead of the third and second. The difference in form is most striking, the 

 body being almost as slender as in E. s a u r i t a . The scales are rather larger 

 than in E. M a r c i a n a , and those of the first row more elongated. The ground 

 color above the lateral stripe is olive brown ; the first dorsal row is whitish 

 olive or greenish white. The abdomen is uniform greenish white, except a 

 small black marginal spot near the extremity of each abdominal scute. The 

 whitish dorsal row occupies one, and less than two half rows of scales, and is 

 encroached upon by the black dorsal blotches which sometimes reach the 

 central row. The lateral stripe is also encroached upon by the spots above 

 and below it, though never entirely interrupted by them near the head as in 

 E. Marciana. The head is dark olive above ; labials margined vertically 



I860.] 




334 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



with black, somewhat as in E. Marciana , except the seventh plate, which 

 in the former is heavily bordered with black on both edges ; in the latter, 

 slightly upon the anterior edge alone. There is a vertical light patch at the 

 angle of the month crossing the posterior upper labial, and confluent with the 

 white of the neck, and not distinct and crescent-shaped as in Marciana. 

 Behind the occipital plates is a very large double black blotch. Behind this 

 there are three or four perfect square blotches extending quite from the dorsal 

 to the lateral sti-ipe, each three scales in length, and separated by intervals 

 of about two scales wide. Behind these the general pattern of spots is seen ; 

 it consists of two series of large oblong rhomboidal alternating spots, each 

 about four scales long, and somewhat confluent with each other at the adja- 

 cent corners, giving the appearance of a zigzag line upon each side. On the 

 first and second dorsal rows is a third series of very distinct black spots, eacd. 

 on parts of three scales, and the extremities of two abdominal scutes. The 

 intervening spaces of greenish white ground color are equal in width to the 

 spots. 



No. 930, Rinconada Coahuila, Mexico, 179 ; 90, 19, 24|, 6. Lieut. Couch. 



Durango, Lieut. Couch. 



Gila River. Dr. Webb. 



Other specimens have the dorsal stripe on a single row of scales, and the 

 lateral stripe has its upper border regular and distinct, without interruption 

 from the middle series of spots, the lower edges of which reach only the up- 

 per edge of the third row instead of the lower edge as in the specimen above 

 described. Instead of the distinct spots upon the first and second rows in 

 that specimen, they are here broken up into black borders of three approxi- 

 mated scales. In the only large specimen of this variety, the keels of the 

 first dorsal row are not parallel to those of the rows above, being directed 

 obliquely downward and backward, so that the posterior end of one keel falls 

 below the anterior end of the next succeeding, instead of forming a continu- 

 ous line. The nose of this specimen is also more pointed than in the typical 

 one. 



REGINA Baird & Gu-ard. 

 R. VALIDA Kennicott. 



Spec. char. Body stout for the genus ; head large, short but high ; broad 

 posteriorly, Snoui elongated, narrow and pointed. Rostral as high as broad, 

 subpentagonal, the apex pointed. Vertical very narrow, obtusely pointed 

 posteriorly : occipitals small. Nineteen rows of scales, all carinated ; the ex- 

 terior very feebly. Light brownish ash above, with faint black markings 

 upon the bases of the scales of the first, fourth and eighth rows of scales. 

 Abdomen entirely uniform yellowish. 



Descr. The body is stout for the genus, with the tail rather short. The 

 head is very large and proportionally stout. It is very broad and high pos- 

 teriorly, and tapers regularly to the snout, which is rather narrow, elongated, 

 and pointed. Crown fiattened as in other species of the genus. Snout ele- 

 vated, rostral plate as high as wide, subpentagonal, and with the elongated 

 apex pointed. Loral nearly as high as long. Anterior frontals triangular, 

 elongated. Vertical very narrow, not widening anteriorly, the posterior point 

 very obtuse and scarcely triangular. Superciliaries proportionally wide, and 

 occipitals small. There is one rather large anteorbital, and two large postor- 

 bitals on one side, and three on the other, (which may possibly be the normal 

 number). Upper labials large, sixth and seventh largest, eighth (the last) 

 smaller. Inferior labials ten, sixth longest. 



The dorsal rows are nineteen, all carinated, the outer row very slightly. 

 The scales of the first row are much the largest ; all the rest about equal. 



The color above is entirely uniform light brownish ash, (clay color beneath 

 the epidermis), with about every alternate scale on the fourth and fifth rows 



[Aug. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 335 



marked with black on each side near its base. Posteriorly the scales of the 

 first row are faintly marked with black at their bases. These black markings 

 are not prominent, and only perceptible upon close examination. The head, 

 including the upper labials and rostral, has more of an olivaceous cast. The 

 abdomen is entirely uniform pale greyish yellow, the tips of the scutella be- 

 ing, however, tinged with the ashy brown color of the back. 



1309, Durango, Mexico. Lieut. Couch. 



In its general aspect this species bears considerable resemblance to Nerodia 

 erythrogaster, from which, however, it is, upon critical examination, at 

 once distinguished by the number of dorsal rows and other generic characters. 

 It will, perhaps, be found that the faint black markings on the first, fourth and 

 eighth rows are the remaining indications of faded sti-ipes. 



NERODIA Baird & Girard. 

 N. CoucHii Kennicott. 



Spec. char. Resembles N. erythrogaster, but the head is shorter 

 and very broad ; the muzzle broad and obtuse. Postorbitals three, much 

 larger thau in N. ery thr oga s t er , the lower extending forward beyond 

 the middle of the eye. Eight upper labials, all large, the seventh much 

 larger than inN. erythrogaster; the dorsal scales are broader and less 

 strongly keeled, and in twenty-three rows. Uniform dull light slaty brown 

 above, paler than erythrogaster. 



Descr. The head is short, but very broad and deep posteriorly ; the nose 

 is broad and obtuse. The outline presented by the head is subovoid, not 

 regularly tapering from the angle of the jaws to the snout as in N. erythro- 

 gaster. The prefontals are rather shorter than in that species. The post- 

 orbitals are very large, three in number, the lower one elougated forward to 

 beyond the middle of the orbit. The color above is entirely uniform dull 

 light slaty brown, lighter than in the lightest varieties of the erythrogas- 

 ter. The abdomen in both specimens examined is uniform brownish white. 

 Upon stretching the skin of one specimen, traces of the usual white transverse 

 lines are seen between the scales. The young are probably marked somewhat 

 asinN. erythrogaster. 



No. 1319, San Diego, New Leon. 143~[-1, 71, 23, 37|, 9|. Lieut. Couch. 



No. 1314, Santa Caterina, New Leon. 1434-1, 86, 23, 26f, 9^. Lieut. 

 Couch. 



This species very closely resembles N. erythrogaster, but can be 

 distinguished upon comparison by the lighter color, broader and shorter head, 

 and by the larger postorbitals and anterior position of the lowest. From N. 

 Woodhousei it differs in its uniform color, its much broader and shorter 

 head, etc. 



N. coMPKESsiCADDA Keuuicott. 



Spec. char. Body stout. Form triangular, much compressed toward the 

 tail, where it is considei'ably higher than broad. Head elongated, rather 

 narrow, but very deep. Plates of the crown large ; vertical short, very broad ; 

 Loral small; three postorbitals, upper and lower small, but the central with 

 its lower posterior angle prolonged to the labials. Twenty-one dorsal rows of 

 scales, all carinate, in form rather wide ; those of the fii'st rows proportionally 

 small. Ground color yellowish olive ; four black stripes on the neck ; behind 

 this zigzag transverse black bands, which do not taper on the sides. Poste- 

 riorly these bands break into three series of spots symmetrically arranged, 

 not alternating. 



Descr. Body rather stouter than that of N. S i p e d o n , and presenting a 

 .^ubtriangular form. This is most evident posteriorly, where, and on the tail, 

 the height is much greater than the transverse diameter. The tail is very 

 large at the base as in N. r h o m b i f e r , and does not taper from the anus, 



I860.] 




336 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



but narrows abruptly at one-third its length from the base. Dorsal rows 

 twenty-one, all distinctly carinate. The scales are rather broad, and much 

 rounded posteriorly, those of the first dorsal row disproportionately small. The 

 head is elongate and rather narrow posteriorly, but very deep and but little 

 depressed on the snout. All the plates of the crown are large ; the vertical 

 very broad and short, the loral longer than high, the upper and lower postor- 

 bitals small, but the central elongated so as to reach the labial plates. 



In pattern of coloration and structure, this species departs somewhat from 

 the usual style of the genus. The ground color is light olive brown, crossed 

 on the anterior half of the body by waving or somewhat zigzag transverse black 

 bands, covering two or three scales longitudinally, and separated by intervals 

 of one or two scales. These bands do not taper regularly on the sides as in N. 

 s i p e d o n , but are constricted upon about the sixth row on each side, but 

 are as wide upon the third, as on the vertebral row. Posteriorly these bands 

 become narrower, and finally break up into a dorsal series of vertically elon- 

 gated spots, and a lateral series of small circular ones, which do not alternate 

 with the dorsal series as inN. sipedon, taxispilotus and others. 

 For two inches behind the head, the transverse bands are replaced by four 

 distinct longitudinal black lines, the lateral ones each covering the third, 

 fourth, and part of the second rows, the upper ones covering the seventh, eighth, 

 ninth and part of the tenth rows ; these black lines are separated by a little 

 over one scale of ground color. None of the black markings involve the first 

 dorsalrow, which is yellowish olive, excepting some irregular dark mottlings. 

 The head is yellowish olive, with the middle of the occipitals and verticals 

 black, and a black patch extending from the eye back above the labials. The 

 rostral is yellow, distinctly margined above with black. All the labials above 

 and below, anl the inframaxiliary plates are yellow, prominently margined 

 with black. The abdomen is yellow, with two lines of black blotches. 



1348, Tampa Bay, Florida. Mr. D. Welch. 



HETERODON Pal. de Beauvois. 

 H. Kennerlti Kennicott. 



Spec. char. Head broad, very short anteriorly. Rostral plate very large. 

 Loral plate very small, sometimes absent. Only two supplemental plates be- 

 hind the azygas ; the latter is sometimes replaced by two symmetrical con- 

 tiguous plates, and without any supplemental. The prenasal and prefontal 

 in contact with the posterior process of the rostral. Dorsal row of scales 

 twenty-three, all carinated except the first and second, which are perfectly 

 smooth. Ground color light yellowish grey ; a dorsal series of rather indis- 

 tinct rounded or subquadrate brown blotches ; a second series of smaller cir- 

 cular spots, much darker and more distinct ; below this a third, and more 

 indistinct series. 



Descr. In its general form and appearance this resembles the H. nasicus, 

 with which it is sometimes found associated. The body, however, is rather 

 shorter and thicker than in H. nasicus, and the head is broader with the 

 part of the head anterior to the eye decidedly shorter. The nasals are not as 

 well developed longitudinally as in H. nasicus, but the result of this 

 shortness of the anterior part of the head is seen in the very small loral which 

 is frequently wanting entirely. There is never more than one loral while 

 frequently two are seen in H. n as ic u s , in which the loral is in every case 

 strikingly larger than in Kennerlyii. The most striking difference be- 

 tween these species is in the number of small plates surrounding the azygos, 

 or postrostral. While in H. nasicus there are always at least ten of these, 

 one or two of which margin the inner edges of the preuasals and prefrontals, 

 there are never more than two, and frequently but one additional plate in H. 

 Kennerlyii, and the prenasal and prefrontal are always in contact with 

 the posterior process of the rostral. The azygos is short, nearly as broad as 



[Aug. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 337 



long, and usually there are just behind it two contiguous plates of about the 

 same size separating it from the postfrontal, but not from the prefrontal. 

 Frequently, however, the azjgos is longitudinally divided and without any 

 additional plates, but in contact with the rostral anteriorly, and the vertical 

 posteriorly, and not separated from the postfrontals . The vertical, occipitals, 

 superciliaries and labials are much as in H. nasicus, though generally 

 less developed longitudinally. The rostral is as large as in H. nasicus. 

 The two outer dorsal rows are both perfectly smooth ; InH. nasicus, the 

 second is distinctly though delicately carinate. 



The ground color is light yellowish gray, with a dorsal series of rather in- 

 distinct subquadrate or rounded blotches, two to two and a half scales long, 

 and separated by intervals of one or two scales, rather wider anteriorly. Be- 

 low this is a series of very distinct purplish black circular blotches, covering 

 four scales transversely and two longitudinally ; below this, one or more in- 

 distinct series of spots. This pattern of coloration is very similar to that of 

 H. nasicus, but the ground color is always lighter, and the dorsal spots 

 are lighter and less distinct. The upper lateral series is of a purplish black, 

 and much more distinct, forming a prominent character. 



Abdomen nearly entirely black, except a few yellow scuta. The head is 

 marked as in H. n a s i c u s , except that the nasals, prefrontals and rostral 

 are all yellowish, while in the latter species they are dark in front of the light 

 transverse line which crosses the crown behind the rostral ; and in H. 

 Kennerlyithe light line across the superciliaries and vertical is much 

 broader than in H. nasicus. This species differs from H. s i m u s in many 

 of the same features as does H. nasicus. These, together with the small 

 or absent loral, and small number of supplemental plates, will readily distin- 

 guish it. 



Rio Grande. Dr. Kennerly. 



Sonora. 



ELAPS Schneider. 



Elaps EURTXANTH0S Kenuicott. 



Spec. char. Head very small, narrower than the neck ; entirely black as 

 far back as the angles of the mouth. Body banded alternately with black 

 and light brick red, separated by narrow rings of creamy white, all the brands 

 immaculate. First broad ring behind the occiput red instead of black as in 

 the other species. 



Descr. Body rather stout, but less so than in E. f n 1 v i u s . Dorsal scale 

 large. Plates of the head small except the rostral, which is very large and 

 extends upward between the prefrontals. Prefrontals elongated laterally, more 

 so than in E. tener. Post frontals small, elongated laterally; vertical very 

 small and narrow, subhexagonal, pointed anteriorly, elongated and tapering 

 posteriorly; it enters but slightly between the occipitals. Occipitals small, sab- 

 triangular, the anterior edge square, very slightly notched for the vertical. 

 Seven labials above ; posterior very small. 



The fore part of the head is black, but the black instead of passing forward 

 from the anterior part of the occipitals to near the eye, and thus leaving the 

 three posterior labials yellow as in E. fulvius and E. tener, involves 

 nearly the whole of the occipitals, and passes backward entirely behind the 

 angle of the mouth and involves the whole of the lower jaw to behind the 

 posterior labial, leaving a broad emargination in the black on the occiput in 

 the bottom of which emargination are seen the white posterior tips of the 

 occipitals. Behind this is a creamy white ring, (probably yellow in life) which 

 is situated more posteriorly than in E. ful v iu s , and involves only the posterior 

 tips of the occipitals and none of the labials. Next behind this white ring, instead 

 of a black ring, as in the other species, is a broad light brick red one involv- 

 ing eleven scales. A creamy white ring three and a half scales wide sepa- 

 1860.J 




338 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



rates tliis first red ring from a black one eight scales iu width. Behind this 

 are alternate immaculate black and red rings, seven or eight scales wide, 

 and separated by white rings three to three and a half scales in width. There 

 are eleven black and eleven red rings on the body separated by twice as many 

 white ones. The tail is ringed with black and white without any red. All 

 the rings run entirely around the body of the same color, and are wholly 

 without spots, above and below. The plates of the head and peculiar style of 

 coloration in this strongly marked species cannot be mistaken. The three 

 colors, each immaculate, glossy, and clear, form a striking contrast, and the 

 red is probably bright carmine in life, thus affording the most beautiful color- 

 ation possessed by any North American snake. 



Elaps distaxs Kennicott. 



Spec. char. Body slender, with very narrow black rings, four or five scales 

 iu width, separated by intervals, three or four times as wide, of brownish or 

 reddish, entirely unspotted. No light rings separating the red and black ones. 

 Under lip and jaw wholly without black, and the tip of nose light. 



Descr. Body very slender ; tail long for the genus. Dorsal scales small. Plates 

 of the head generally larger than InE. euryxanthus; rostral broad and not 

 as high asinE. euryxanthus. Anterior frontals rather small, and slightly 

 elongated laterally ; postfrontals large, pentagonal, as broad as long. Supercili- 

 aries quadrangular, elongated, narrow. Vertical, pentagonal, rather large, but 

 narrow, the pointed posterior extremity inserted between the occipitals, as in E. 

 fulvius . 



The ground color of the body in the alcoholic specimen is reddish brown, 

 probably brighter red in life, with twelve very narrow black rings from head 

 to anus. At the edges of the black rings the reddish color becomes indis- 

 tinctly lighter for half a scale, but there is no well defined light ring border- 

 ing the black as in the other species. On the tail are five broad black bands 

 separated by narrow light rings. The anterior part of the head back to the 

 middle of the occipitals and the upper jaw to the fourth labial is black, but 

 this color does not extend on the lower jaw at all, and the lower edge of the 

 rostral and upper labials is light. On the posterior part of the head is the 

 usual light ring, but situated farther back than in E. f u 1 v i u s , its anterior 

 border passing across the middle of the occipitals a little behind the vertical 

 and thence down and forward to the fourth labial, expanding below upon the 

 whole of the lower jaw. On the neck behind this light ring is a black one, 

 about fire or six scales in width, which does not run entirely around the body, 

 being interrupted for a short distance on the abdomen. Behind this, the 

 black annulations are perfect, each four or five scales in width, and separated 

 by intervals of fifteen to twenty scales of the ground color. The black annula- 

 tions are broader on the vertebral region than laterally and beneath where 

 they cover three or four dorsal scales, and the same number of abdominal 

 scutellffi. The black rings on the tail are about eight scales wide, and sepa- 

 rated by light intervals of only two or three scales. 



The narrow black lings, separated by very wide intervals, will at once 

 distinguish this species from any of the others here described. There are also 

 no blotches or dots of black on the red intervals, and, if the colors of the speci- 

 men described have not been much altered by soaking, the absence of distinct 

 light lings of a third color between the black and red ones will form a striking 

 character. The color of the light occipital ring and of the light rings on the 

 tail is probably yellow or white in life. The mutilated condition of the head 

 prevents an accurate description of its outline, but it is apparently small and 

 narrow as in E. t e n e r . 



1144. Batosegachie, Chihuahua. John Potts. 216, 48, 12, 22, 3. 



[Aug. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 839 



Notes aad deEcriptions cf new and little known species of American Reptiles. 



BY E. D. COPE. 



OPHIDIA. 



Chilomeniscus Cope. 



Size small. Form stout, body cylindrical, tlae head not distinct. Muzzle round- 

 ed, very prominent, and muck depressed. Rostral plate large, with an ex- 

 tensive superior surface, and presenting an obtuse angle between the pre- 

 frontals : the inferior surface greater than the superior, owing to the back- 

 ward position of the mandible. Head shields broad, normal, except in the 

 confluence of the prefrontals with the nasals. Nostril connected to the an- 

 terior suture of the postfrontal by a groove. Loreal none, the postfrontals 

 reaching the labials. One pre- two postoculars. Scales smooth. Tail short, 

 the urosteges and anal plate divided. Teeth equal, or the posterior a little 

 stouter. I'alatines and pterygoids present. 



This truly Calamarian genus is analogous to Stenorhina in the union of the 

 nasal and prefontal shields, and perhaps the form of the muzzle and inferior 

 position of the mouth indicates affinity to Chionactis. 



C. STRAMINECS CopO. 



Common suture of the prefrontals very small, Tin one specimen obliterated 

 by the rostral,) that of the postfrontals but half the length of their sutures 

 with the prefrontals. Vertical presenting an obtuse angle anteriorly ; the 

 superciliary sutures converging posteriorly ; posterior angle less than a right- 

 angle. Occipitals short, their common suture scarcely longer than the frontal 

 suture of the vertical. Superior labials seven, the second reaching the minute 

 preocular, or should that plate be absent, as will probably occur occasionally, 

 forming with the third and fourth the inferior border of the orbit. Inferior 

 labials eight, fifth the largest. Geneials two pair, posterior half the length of 

 the anterior. Temporals .3 — 3 ; a larger central plate opposite the occipital 

 suture. Scales in thirteen rows, hexagonal on the flanks, a little elongated on 

 the back. Gastrosteges 117 ; one divided anal; urosteges 22. Total length 

 of the largest specimen, nine inches ; the tail, thirteen lines. 



Coloration. — Inferiorly, and upon the first and second rows of dorsal scales, 

 pale straw color. Superiorly, brownish straw color, each scale with a deep 

 brown dot near its posterior extremity. Top of the head grayish, minutely 

 punctulated with darker. 



Hab. Cape St. Lucas, Lower California. Discoveredby Mr. John Xantus. 

 Museums of the Smithsonian Institution, Washington, and Academy of Natural 

 Sciences, Philadelphia. 



Catostoma Wagler. 



In the Monatsberichte der Preuss. Acad, von Wissensch., 1859, p. 275. 

 Herr Peters identifies this genus with the Rhabdosomaof Dumeril, employing, 

 however, the name Geophis, which was given by Fitzinger in the Systema 

 Reptilium, p. 25, many years subsequently to that of Wagler. The typical 

 species isC. chalybeum, which the combined diagnoses of Wagler and 

 Peters do not enable me to recognize as having yet been received at our 

 Museum from Mexico. The most common species of the north eastern region 

 of that country will henceforth stand as Catostoma semidoliatum with 

 the synonymes Rhabdosoma semidoliatum Dum. &Bibr., and Geophis semidolia- 

 tus Peters, 1. c. 276. 



NiKiA Baird & Girard. 

 Professor Baird has kindly pointed out to me that this genus has been iden- 

 1860.] 




340 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



tified with the Streptophorns of Dumeril, by Prof. Jan of Milan, and that the 

 type of the former, N. diademata B. and G. is the Streptophoius b i f a 3 - 

 c i a t u s of the Erpetologie Generale. From an examination of the type speci- 

 men of Baird and Girard's description, I have become convinced of the correct- 

 ness of this identification. The species of the genus will then stand : 



NraiA DIADEMATA. Streptophorus hifasciatus, Erp. Gen. vii. 520. 



NiNiA ATKATA.* Streptophorus Drozii, 1. c. p. 518. 



NiNiA Lansbergii. Streptophorus Lansbergii, 1. c. p. 518. 



NiNiA Sebae. Streptophorus Sebae, 1. c. p. 515. 



In these Proceedings, 1860, p. 77, I questioned the propriety of associating 

 this genus with the genera of Calamarinae. I now believe that it cannot be 

 arranged in that sub-family. 



Teopidoclonion Cope. 

 T. KiRTLANDii Cope. 



Regina Kirtlandii Kennicott, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. 1856, p. 95. 



This beautiful species, first described by Mr. Kennicott under Baird and 

 Girard's genus Regina, appears to be congeneric with the Tropidoclonion 

 lineatum Cope of Kansas. In neither species is the nasal plate entirely 

 divided, but a groove connects the nostril with the labial suture. The anal 

 plate in the Kirtlandii is divided, entire in the lineatum. I am not 

 prepared to regard this difference as generic here, though it certainly is among 

 some serpents. In dentition this genus is isodont, and the head is not distinct 

 from the body. 



The Academy's Museum possesses a specimen of the T. Kirtlandii from 

 Columbus, Ohio, presented by Prof. Lesquereux, and a second, half grown, 

 from the neighborhood of Trenton, New Jersey, discovered by my friend Mr. 

 C. C. Abbott of that place. 



This specimen differs in no respect from that from Ohio. This species has 

 therefore an extensive distribution, ranging from New Jersey to Illinois. 

 Its habits according to Mr. Kennicott, are terrestrial, which statement is con- 

 firmed by the observations of Mr. Abbott. 



Tkopidonotus Kuhl. 



T. TT8TUS Cope. 



Scales in twenty-one longitudinal rows, all carinate, those of the first, faint- 

 ly. Those of the second row not larger than those of the vertebral. Head 

 narrow, not depressed, the end of the muzzle slightly elevated. Lateral bor- 

 ders of the vertical plate slightly concave, not convergent posteriorly. Pre- 

 frontals small. Nostril in the supero-posterior angle of the prenasal plate. 

 Loreal longer than high. Preocular single, two postoculars. Superior labials 

 eight, fourth and fifth bounding the orbit. Lower postocular in contact with 

 the occipital and a large temporal plate, which extends to the eighth labial. 



A second large, and three small temporals border the occipitals exteriorly. 

 Ten inferior labials, sixth largest. Posterior pair of geneials longer than the 

 anterior. Tail one-fourth the total length. Gastrosteges 126 ; anal one, di- 

 vided ; urosteges 66. Total length 12 in., 1 line. Tail 2 in. 10 1. 



Coloration. Above, a yellowish ferruginous, pale upon the head, very deep 

 upon the tail. Upon careful examination there are to be seen very indistinct 

 erect half bands upon each side, extending from the first to the central rows 

 of scales, alternating with each other. Posteriorly they become entirely 

 transverse. Belly salmon color, passing into orange ferruginous upon the 

 urosteges. Each gastrostege has a large central area of yellow, bordered on 

 each side with wax yellow, {cereus Lat.) these colors, however, blending pos- 

 teriorly. 



♦See Proc. PhiL Acad. 1860, p. 76. 



[Aug. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 341 



One specimen in alcohol, sent to the Smithsonian Institution, from Charlotte 

 Harbor, Florida, by E. M. Baker. 



T. CELAExo Cope. 



Scales in nineteen or twenty-one rows, all carinate except the first. Head 

 broad and distinct posteriorly, constricted at the orbits, and remarkably nar- 

 row anteriorly. Profile of the crown slightly, but regularly convex. Super- 

 ciliary plates narrow and elongate. Vertical elongate, its lateral borders 

 concave, not convergent posteriorly, its length greater than that of the occipi- 

 tal suture. Frontals small, the anterior almost triangular. Nasals and loral 

 rather large, the posterior border of the latter very oblique. Preocular one, 

 postoculars three. Superior labials eight, eye resting on the fourth and fifth, 

 sixth and seventh largest and bounded above by the first temporal. Remain- 

 ing temporals four on each side. Inferior labials ten, sixth longest. Posterior 

 geneials longer than the anterior. General form rather slender, tail one-fifth 

 the total length. Gastrosteges 145 ; one divided anal ; urosteges 71. 



Coloration. The general hiie is leaden black above and below, with the 

 following paler markings. A band of leaden gray commences upon the neck, 

 occupying the second, third, and part of the first rows of scales. This ex- 

 tends to the anus, becoming darker, and leaving the first row of scales poste- 

 riorly. Upon the anterior third of the body irregular narrow vertical bands 

 extend from this, separated by black spaces of one and a half or two scales 

 in width, which spaces are sometimes enclosed by the confluence of the bands 

 on each side of the black vertebral line. 



One specimen (No. 351,) discovered by Mr. John Xantus, at Cape St. Lucas, 

 Lower California, and deposited in the Museum of the Smithsonian Institute. 



This species may be distinguished from those called Eutjenia, by Baird and 

 Girard, by its divided postabdominal scutellum. It, however, bears quite a 

 close resemblance to some of them, e. g., E. P i c k e r i n g i i . It is'unneces- 

 sary to institute any comparisons with our true Tropidonoti, (which possesses 

 the divided scutellum,) it is so strikingly diflferent from all of them. 



T. TEPHKOPLEURA Cope. 



Scales in nineteen or twenty-one longitudinal rows, keels obsolete on the 

 external series only ; second row larger than those of the back. Head distinct, 

 narrow anteriorly, its lateral outlines regularly converging from the canthus 

 of the mouth. Outline of the crown slightly depressed behind the plane of 

 the orbits. Head shields much elongated, especially the superciliaries and 

 vertical, the latter twice as long as wide. The lateral borders do not converge, 

 and the posterior angle is but little greater than a right angle. Nasals large ; 

 loreal as high as long ; two pre-, three postoculars, the former partially 

 united in an old individual. Superior labials eight, sixth much the largest, 

 its superior border and two-thirds of that of the seventh in contact with the 

 very large first temporal. Remaining temporals normally four, sometimes 

 confluent in pairs. Inferior labials ten, sixth the longest. General form 

 stout ; tail one-fourth of the total length. Gastrosteges 146 ; one divided 

 anal; urosteges 83. Total length 32 inches, tail 8 in., 31.; of a larger speci- 

 men, 9 in., 8 1., and the total length 38 in. 31. 



Coloration. Above plumbeous brown, shading into plumbeous grey or ash 

 upon the sides, which color fades into pale greyish yellow upon the middle of 

 the belly. Urosteges ashy, with a dark shade along the central suture. When 

 the skin of the upper part of the body is stretched, it is seen to be leaden black 

 along the medial line, with two or three series of quadrate spots of the same 

 color on each side. These spots usually alternate, but are sometimes conflu- 

 ent into oblique bands. 



Two specimens (4(581 type, and 4680,) in the museum of the Smithsonian 

 Institution, Washington, discovered at Cape St. Lucas, in Lower California, 

 by Mr. John Xantus. 



I860.] 23 




342 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



The number of rows of scales will distinguish this species from Tropidouo- 

 tus Woodhousei Hallow. Tropidonotus C o u c h i i Cope (Nerodia Couchii 

 Kennicott, Proc. Phila. Acad., Aug., 1860), has a very differently formed head, 

 but one preocular shield, and a few other distinguishing peculiarities. Tro- 

 pidonotus valid us Cope {Regina valida Kenn. 1. c.) possesses a short head, 

 a rostral plate as high as broad, one preocular, and small occipitals, according 

 to Mr. Kennicott, none of which peculiarities exist in the T. tephropleura. 



The three Tropidonotes here described i^ossess the true syncranteriau type 

 of dentition. So also, doe^ the Trop. r i g i d u s Holhr., but the T. 1 e b e r i s 

 Holhr., and some other species included by Baird & Girard in their genus 

 " Regina, " exhibit an almost constant isodont dentition. It is possible that 

 a genus intermediate between Tropidonotus and some forms of Homalopsinje, 

 may exist in nature ; that such genus be characterized by the possession of 

 teeth of equal lengths, and that the only name applicable to it be Regina ; 

 yet the generic separation of the r i g i d u s from the 1 e b e r i s will not accord 

 with the present views of most herpetologists. 



Herpetodryas Boie. 

 H. BoDDAERTii Schleg. 



A variety of this species has been obtained in the vicinity of Xalapa, Mexico, 

 by Sr. R. M. DeOca. It is distinguished by the color of the tail, which is of a 

 bright salmon tint, Mus. Smithsonian Inst. 



Spilotes Wagler. 



The species of this genus may be divided into two sections, one character- 

 ized by the possession of keeled scales, the other having them smooth. To 

 the former belong the S. pullatus, poecilostoma and poecilono- 

 tus; to the latter, which Fitziuger has called Dr^'marchon, the S. cora'is 

 and melanurus pertain. All thestructuralpeculiaritiesof this latter group 

 are shared by the Colubri C o ii p e r i and obsoietusof Holbrook's American 

 Herpetology. The latter species is not the obsoietusof Say, as supposed 

 by Dr. Holbrook, which has been correctly identified by Mr. Kennicott, and 

 shown to belong to a different genus ; vid. Scotophis obsolctus Kenn, 

 Proc. Acad. Aug., 1860. We therefore propose that Holbrook's species in 

 question be known henceforth as 



Spilotes Cooperi Cope. 



Syn. Coluber Couperi Holbrook, N. Am. Herp. iii. 75, pi. xvi. 

 Georgia Couperi Baird & Girard, Catalogue, p. 92. 



Spilotes erebennus Cope. 



Syn. Coluber obsoletus Holbr. 1. c. iii. p. 61, pi. xii. 



Georgia obsoleta Bd. & Grd. 1. c. p. 158. U. S. and Mex. Bound. 

 Surv. Rept. pi. xv. 



PiTYOPHis Holbrook. 

 P. HiEMATOis Cope. 



Scales in from thirty-one to thirty-five rows, the exterior ten or twelve en- 

 tirely smooth, the central faintly carinate ; the scales three times as Avide as 

 long near the middle of the body. Head distinct, elongate, depressed, espe- 

 cially itpon the region of the sutura coronalis. Occipital shield as long as the 

 vei-tical, but subject, as in other species of the genus, to subdivision. Length 

 of the vertical one and a half times the anterior breadth, the superciliary 

 Ijorders concave and slightly divergent posteriorly. Posterior angle obtuse. 

 Postfrontals four, elongate, all bordering the vertical. Rostral not prominent ; 

 as broad as high, possessing six sutural borders, the nasal twice as long as any 

 of the others. Nasal shields large, loreal longer than high. Preoculars nor- 

 mally two, sometimes three, or one. Postoculars three, exceptionally four. 



[Aug. 




NATrRAL SCIENCES OF PniLADELPHIA. 343 



Superior labials noroaally nine, (exceptionally ten,) the fifth entering the 

 orbit. Inferior labials normallj twelve ; geneials two pair, anterior twice the 

 length of the posterior. Tail one-seventh of the total length. Gastrosteges 

 247, an entire anal, urosteges 61. Total length 5 ft. 4 in. Tail 9 in. 



Coloration. The ground color above and below is a rich straw yellow. The 

 muzzle is shaded anteriorly with ashy or fuscous ; this color gradually fades 

 into a lively sanguineous or testaceous, which tint prevails upon the posterior 

 part of the head, and anterior part of the body. There arises upon the tenth 

 or eleventh row of the scales of the neck upon each side, a longitudinal band 

 of the same color, which deepens posteriorly, and unites with its fellow at 

 intervals of three or four scales by a gradual widening upon its dorsal border. 

 Thus a scalarifoitn series of dorsal blotches is formed, whose transverse di- 

 ameter increases regularly posteriorly, and whose intervals diminish, being 

 anteriorly four scales, — upon the tail, one and a half. The connecting band 

 remains unbroken upon the anterior fourth of the body only. Separated from 

 this by an interval of one half or a whole scale, another longitudinal and very 

 narrow band arises on the neck. It is much more distinct opposite the inter- 

 vals between the dorsal blotches, and upon the disappearance of the line 

 connecting the latter, partially assumes its position, and breaks up into an 

 alternating series of very elongated spots. The dorsal intervals are thus 

 widened to a breadth of seven and two halves scales. There also commences 

 upon the neck a second lateral series of spots, which occupy a length of five 

 scales on the fourth, fifth and sixth rows. Their length decreases to three scales 

 opposite the anus, where they unite with the superior lateral series. Every 

 second pair of gastrosteges is tipped with sanguineous. All the markings of 

 this serpent are sanguineous anteriorly, but deeper posteriorly, passing through 

 shades of maroon, until iipon the terminal third of the total length they are 

 entirely black. A black or maroon band passes along the suture of the iiros- 

 teges. Belly immaculate. 



Hah. Cape St. Lucas, Lower California, sent by Mr. John Xantus. Mu- 

 seums Smithsonian, Washington ; Acad. Nat. Sciences, Philada. 



This species will compare favorably for beauty with the elegant Tropidono- 

 tus concinnus of the lamented Dr. Hallowell, but readily yields the palm 

 to the gorgeous Elaps euryxanthus of Kennicott. 



Ltcodon Boie. 

 Syn, Lycognathus* Dumeril, Erp. Gen. vii. p. 916. 



L. LYROPHANES Cope. 



In describing this species, I will repeat some of the generic characters, pre- 

 mising that the form belongs probably to the Dipsadinse, to the typical forms 

 of which it is connected by Tripanurgus Fitz. 



Dentition resembling that of Macroprotodon cuoullatus Cope. Seven 

 teeth upon the superior maxillary bone, of which one posterior is elongate 

 and grooved ; three central, small and recurved, and three anterior, very long, 

 the first longest and least recurved. The central three are not separated from 

 those anterior and posterior to them by spaces wider than those existing be- 

 tween themselves. Palatine teeth six, the anterior three the longest, ail 

 longer than the pterygoids. The three anterior mandibular teeth longer and 

 more widely spaced than the posterior, having an outwaid direction as in 

 Hormonotus Hallow. 



Scales in twenty-one rows, rather broad posteriorly and upon the middle of 

 the body, not larger upon the vertebral line. The body anteriorly is slender, 

 contracting to a small neck. Tail less than one-sixth of the total length. 

 Head very distinct, the temples much swollen, so that the greatest breadth in 

 life is just posterior to the eyes, though the length of head posterior to the 



* See my remarks upon this genus, Proc. Phila. Acad. 1860, p 262. 



I860.] 




344 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



angle of the vertical shield is one line greater than that anterior. Side of the 

 head constricted at the orbits, the muzzle rather narrow and truncate. Ros- 

 tral plate broader than high, with but four sutural borders, the superior very 

 long ; the apex apparent upon the surface of the head. Prefrontals much 

 broader than long ; one-third the size of that part of the postfrontals visible 

 from above. Upon a vertical view, the postfrontals appear longer than broad. 

 Occipitals, superciliaries and vertical developed ; the last presenting a right 

 angle posteriorly, and having the lateral borders slightly concave and converg- 

 ing ; the first not longer, and about as wide as long, in contact with a large 

 scale in their posterior, common emargination. Nasal plates distinctly di- 

 vided, very small, higher than long. Loreal plates two, the anterior higher 

 than long, intercalated superiorly between the pre- and postfrontal, posterior 

 as long as high. Preoculars three, the superior largest, not in contact with 

 the vertical ; the inferior bounded anteriorly by the third upper labial. Post- 

 oculars three, the inferior a little the largest. Superior labials nine, fourth 

 and fifth entering the orbit, sixth largest, higher than broad. Inferior labials 

 twelve, the third and fourth narrow, and much produced posteriorly. Gene- 

 ials two pair, the anterior longest. Gastrosteges 236, one divided anal, uros- 

 teges 70. Total length 27 in. 10 lin. Tail 4 in. 4 lin. 



Coloration. — The ground color is a light grey. The muzzle is crossed by an 

 indistinct ashy band, which extends upon the anterior part of the postfrontals. 

 The posterior half of these plates is involved in a deep brown band which 

 crosses the head between the eyes, whose posterior border is very concave, 

 extending upon the superciliaries to the vertical plane of the pupil of the eye. 

 This band is continued posteriorly, upon the inferior postocular and sixth 

 upper labial. A pair of broad diverging bands commences one band on either 

 side of the centre of the vertical, crosses the superciliary and occipital shields, 

 and following the expanded outline of the temporal and tympanic regions, 

 contracts and becomes longitudinal and parallel upon the neck. A brown 

 spot upon the posterior extremity of the vertical plates with a posterior 

 elongation, completes the resemblance of this figure to a lyre, or still more to 

 that musical (?) instrument familiarly known to children as the "Jews-harp." 

 The ground color appears upon the vertex as an anchor-shaped figure, and on the 

 cheek, as an oblique band. The back, as far as the anus, is ornamented with 

 twenty- one pairs of deep brown spots, their gemination only apparent anteri- 

 orly by the pxmctulate character of the scales in the intervals between the 

 pairs. These intervals are always about three scales wide ; the lesser, two 

 and a half anteriorly, one and a half posteriorly. Dorsal spots seven scales 

 wide; as the scales are broader posteriorly, the spots are also. There is 

 an irregular series of lateral spots, one opposite each of the intervals, some- 

 times confluent with the dorsal spots : anteriorly they form a very narrow 

 broken band. Another series of spots involves the tips of pairs of the gastro- 

 steges, which are separated by two, three, four, or even five immaculate ones. 

 Ten confluent pairs of spots on the upper surface of the tail. Whole under 

 surface whitish. 



Type (Sm. No. 4080), discovered by Mr. J. Xantus at Cape St. Lucas, Lower 

 California. Another specimen collected by Mr. Irwin, at Ft. Buchanan, Ari- 

 zona, appears to be identical, though in a bad state of preservation. 



The discovery of this species by Messrs. Irwin and Xantus, is one of the 

 most interesting additions to North American Herpetology. The form is 

 strictly tropical, for we learn from the Erpetologie Generale that the L. g e m- 

 i n a t u s is Brazilian, and the scolopax has been brought from Guiana and 

 Santa Cruz de la Sierra in the eastern region of Bolivia. There are no other 

 species known. It is important to notice that the present species differs from 

 those of South America in the possession of two loreals and three preoculars, 

 but with our present knowledge of the Dipsadinse, generic diflference can. 

 hardly be predicated upon peculiarities of this kind. 



[Aug. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILA.DELPHIA. 345 



Teleueaspis Cope. 



In these Proceedings for December, 1859, I cliaracterized a genus of crotal- 

 ine serpents under the above name. It was intended to include all the 

 serpents hitherto arranged with Bothrops, which possess undivided urosteges. 

 In examining the structure of these serpents, I recognized two sections of the 

 genus, the one containing a single species, and characterized by the possession 

 of a series of elevated scales exterior to the superciliary plate ; the other con- 

 taining several species, which have that plate, as is Bothrops, i. e. forming 

 the superior border of the orbit. It seemed probable that these might be 

 generically distinct, yet the possession of the horned eyebrow by but a single 

 species, would not admit of such a conclusion. Since then, I have received 

 from Dr. Albert Giinther, his description and beautiful figure of Lachesis 

 nitidus, published in the P. Z. S. , Nov., 1859. This serpent, which 

 was discovered by Mr. Fraser, in the Andes of Equador, is obviously a second 

 species of the typical group of my Teleuraspis ; we can perceive no propriety 

 in its position in Lachesis, a genus having urosteges anteriorly two-i'owed, at 

 the tip four-rowed. 



In the Monatsberichte der Konigl. Preuss. Acad, for March 1859, p. 278. 

 Herr. Peters characterized a genus Bothriechis, for a species resembling a 

 Bothrops, except in its entire urosteges, and keelless scales of the vertex. 

 Excluding the latter character, which does not appear to be of generic value, 

 this genus is exactly co-extensive with my second section of Teleiiraspis. 

 The following, therefore, will be what appears to me to be the correct nomen- 

 clature of the species included by me in Teleiiraspis 1. c. with the addition of 

 those here mentioned. 



Crotaline Viperidce, without crepitacuium having a scaltd scarlet vertex, super- 

 ciliary plates present, and entire urosteges. 



1. Teleukaspis Cope, Proc. Philada. Acad. Nat. Sei. 1859, p. 338. 



T. SCHLEGELI Cope, 1. C. 



Trigonocephalus Schlegeli Berthold, vid. 1, e. 

 T. NiTiDA Cope, hujus operis. 

 Lachesis tiitidus, Grlinther, L c. 



2. BoTHKiECHis Peters, Monatsbericht Konigl. Preuss. Acad. 1859, p. 278. 



B. NiGKOviEiDis Peters, 1. c. 

 B. Castelnaui Cope, h- op. 



Bothrops Castelnaudi Dum. & Bibr., vid. 1. c* 



Teleuraspis Castelnaui Cope, 1. c. 

 B. Lansbergii Cope, h. op. 



Trigonocephalus Lanshergii Schleg., loc? 

 ■ Teleuraspis Lanshergii Cope, 1. c. 

 ? B. NUMMiFEK Cope, h. op. 



Trigonocephalus nummifer Riipp., loc? 



? Teleiiraspis nummifer Cope, 1. c. 



Contributions to American Lepidopterology. — Ifo. 6. 



BY BRACKENRIDGE CLEMENS, M. D. 



TINEINA. Fam. TORTRICIDjE. 



Antithesia Stephens. 



Fore wings much narrower at the base than across the inner angle ; costa 

 regularly arched ; apex obtuse ; hind margin obliquely rounded ; apical nervnle 

 simple; disk modeiately broad, rounded behind, und with a secondary eell. 



I860.] 




346 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



Hind wings much broader than the fore wings, ovate ; branches of the subcostal 

 connirent at their origins; discal vein curved; medio-discal on an erect mo- 

 derate stalk ; the two superior nervnles of the median vein scarcely from a 

 common point. Head roughened; with ocelli. Face rounded, rather narrow. 

 Eyes prominent, rather large ; antennae approximated, inserted on the fore- 

 head ; setaceous, with whorls of minute cilia, pubescent beneath. Palpi ex- 

 ceeding the clypeus, ascending, rather hairy beneath and at the end of the 

 middle joint above, which is truncate; terminal joint minute, oval. Tongue 

 about one-half as long as the anterior coxae. Thorax with a bifid tuft behind. 

 Abdomen tufted in the (^. 



A. nimbatan a. — Head and palpi dark brown, the latter whitish beneath. 

 Thorax dark brownish, pale ochreous white in the middle. Fore wings dark 

 brownish, with an indistinct violet hue from the base to beyond the middle ; 

 apical portion of the wing whitish, with brownish dots along the costa. Hind 

 wings pale grayish fuscous. 



The larva binds together the leaves of the rose. The insect may be the A. 

 ochroleucana of Europe, and may not be a native of our continent. The 

 apical edge of the dark brownish portion of the wing is obliquely rounded, and 

 is sometimes varied with whitish on the inner margin and towards the base. 



Mass. Penna. 111. 



A. bipartitan a. — Fore wings white, with a dark brown basal patch and 

 a rather broad central fascia of the same hue, with the apical edge straight. 

 The costa exterior to the central fascia has two or three dark brown dots; the 

 tip of the wing is varied with the same hue, and in the middle of the apical 

 white portion is a pale brownish spot. Cilia spotted with, dark brown. Hind 

 wings whitish, fuscous at the apex and towards the hind margin. 



Ttiis insect bears a superficial resemblance to E. fasciatana. 



Mass. From Mr. Scudder. 



A. ? coruscan a. — Fore wings luteous, varied with dark brown, spotted 

 towards the base with metallic leaden hued spots ; a more or less distinct cen- 

 tral fascia spotted with leaden spots, especially on its edges, and a band from 

 the costa, near the tip of the inner margin, is edged with metallic leaden-hued 

 lines on both sides. The central and subapical bands are often dark brown 

 irrorated with luteous, and the basal patch sometimes distinct, and again 

 scarcely, if at all, indicated. Hind wings dark brown. 



In general appearance, this insect strongly resembles those of the genus 

 Esartema. but wants the peculiar appendage at the base of the inner margin 

 of the hind wings in the latter genus, besides differing from it in other respects. 

 In structure it agrees very nearly with the genus in which it is placed. 



LozoT.ESiA Stephens. 



Fore wings nearly as broad toward the base as at the inner angle; with the 

 costa much arched at the base, emarginate from the middle to the tip, which 

 is slightly produced upwards, and emarginate beneath the tip on the hinder 

 margin. The inner angle obtusely rounded. In the (J' the costa at the base 

 has a fold or flap of scales on the upper surface. The disk is elongated, 

 slightly curved, without distinct secondary cell. The second disco-central ner- 

 vule is approximated to the medio-superior, and the posterior, very remote from 

 the penultimate, is opposite at its origin to that of the first subcosto-marginal 

 nervule. In tbe posterior wings the discal vein is curved and the disco-central 

 is approximated to the median system. 



Head scarcely rough, with a slight frontal tuft between the antennae. With 

 ocelli. Face smooth and rather narrow. Eyes prominent. Antennse separated 

 at their bases, setaceous, pubescent beneath, or microscopically ciliated. Palpi 

 ascending, cylindrical, densely clothed with short scales ; terminal joint ex- 

 tremely short, slender, ovate, about as long as the basal joint ; middle joint 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 347 



three or four times longer than the terminal, without spreading scales at the 

 end. Tongue nearly as long as the anterior cosje. Thorax not tufted. Abdo- 

 men tufted at the tip in the (^. 



L. Rosaceana, Harris, Ins. Mass., 2d ed., 3Y6. — Pale cinnamon-brown. 

 Fore wings with a basal and oblique central fascia of a darker reddish brown 

 and a triangular spot of the same hue on the costa, near the tip, and frequently 

 with a subterminal band. The wing is more or less striated with dark reddish 

 brown lines. Hind wings ochreous yellow, internally blackish. 



The larva binds together the leaves of the rose and other plants. 



L. fervidan a. — Palpi, head and thorax brownish ochreous. Fore wings 

 ochreous, with the basal patch reddish brown ; a reddish brown central fascia, 

 interrupted on the disk, with a shining dark brownish spot above it on the middle 

 of the costa; near the tip, on the costa, is a dark brownish spot, and between 

 the two costal spots, beneath the middle of the wing, is a diffuse patch of the 

 same hue. Hind wings fuscous, along the costa yellowish white. 



Peeoxea Curtis. 



Fore wings with tufts of elevated scales scattered over the surface ; costa not 

 folded, rather abruptly arched at the base, slightly concave in the middle ; 

 apex slightly produced, and the hind margin beneath it slightly concave; inner 

 angle rounded. The disk is placed in the middle of the wiug, is rather narrow 

 and without secondary cell ; apical vein simple. In the hind wings the costal 

 and subcostal are distinct, the branches of the latter connivent; discal vein 

 curved ; medio-discal on a short stalk at the bifurcation of the two superior 

 branches of the median vein. 



Head scarcely rough. Ocelli small. Face short, rounded, slightly tufted in 

 the middle. Eyes prominent. Antennae setaceous, pubescent beneath. PaJpi 

 exceeding the face by one half their length, rather truncate, ascending toward 

 the base and porrected from the middle; terminal joint minute, almost con- 

 cealed in the scales of the middle joint, which is ihin and cylindrical at is 

 base, arching upward on its upper edge, nearly straight beneath, and densely 

 clothed with scales at its end, especially above. Tongue about one-half as 

 long as the anterior coxas. 



P. Y i b u r n a n a. — Palpi brownish gray. Head dark brownish. Thorax 

 blackish brown in front, dark ochreous behind. Fore wings grayish, with a 

 reddish brown costal patch at the base, and a large triangular patch of the 

 same hue, extending from the middle of the costa to the tip, and nearly across 

 the wing; it is margined internally with dark ochreous, and has an oblique 

 line of the same hue from the costa, passing through its middle. The tufts are 

 minute, black and disposed on ochreous colored bases. Hind wings fuscous. 



The larva rolls and feeds on the leaves of Viburnum and wild cherry. It is 

 immaculate pale green ; head pale brownish. The rolled leaves contain a 

 silken web or gallery, in which the larva lives. 



Platynota. 

 Fore wings with tufts and lines of elevated scales disposed over the surface ; 

 costa broadly folded at the base in the r^, where it is abruptly arched, and 

 straight aloug the middle ; the tip and hind margin rounded. The disk is 

 placed in the middle of the wing, and is broadest in the middle, wi'hout se- 

 condary cell. There are three subcosto-marginal nervules ; the apical branch 

 is bifid, with two disco-central nervules, the lower one approximated to the 

 median system ; the medio-posterior is moderately remote from the penultimate 

 branch, and is opposite the second marginal Jitrvule. In the hind wings the 

 costal and subcostal veins arise from a common stalk; the branches of the 

 subcostal separate from each other at the origin of the discal vein, which is 

 somewhat angulated ; the two superior branches of the median arise at a 

 common point, where is likewise received the medio-discal on a short oblique 



I860.] 




348 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



stalk, the nervule ranning parallel with the medlo-superior nervule. In repose 

 the wings are deflexed in the apical portion along the middle. 



Head smooth, vertex elongated. Face smooth nearly naked, coacealed by 

 the labial pilpi ; forehead with a thin tuft. Eyes rather small, moderately 

 prominent. Antennae setaceous, pubescent beneath. Palpi exceeding the face 

 by more than one-half the length, cramhiform, porrected, flattened, and taper- 

 ing from the middle to the end ; terminal joint distinct, short, smooth and 

 ovate ; middle joint suddenly arching upward at tlae face, whence il is porrected 

 and slightly deflexed, roughly clotsied with scales above and beneath. Tongue 

 rudimentary, almost obsolete. 



P. sent an a — Head and palpi dark brownish, slightly sprinkled with 

 grayish. Fore wings dark grayish brown, with an oblique line of dark brownish 

 scales near the base, terminating in a tuft of the same hue on the fold. An 

 oblique line of elevated dark brownish scales crosses the wing from the costa 

 within the middle, to the middle of the inner margin, and in the middle of the 

 wing, exterior to it, is a short blackish streak, beneath which the wing is dis- 

 colored with dark reddish brown ; along the costa, exterior and parallel to the 

 central line, are two shorter and similar lines. Near the hind margin, and 

 parallel with it, are two lines of elevated dark brownish scales crossing the 

 nervules. Hind wings yellowish fuscous. 



The larva feeds on the leaves of Viburnum p r u n if oli urn. Ilis dark brown, 

 with paler brown papilliform points, and two indistinct subdorsal lines of the 

 same hue. It leaves its food plant to weave a white silken cocoon, and appears 

 as an imago early in July. 



P. flavedana. — Reddish saffron. Fore wings with an oblique line near 

 the base, terminating in a tuft on the fold ; an oblique central fascia edged on 

 each side with elevated scales, and a fascia near the tip, joining the central 

 fascia, reddish brown. Near the terminal border of the wing is a line of raised 

 scales of the general hue. Hind wings reddish saffron. 



Male? Palpi reddish brown, terminal joint yellowish. Head and thorax 

 ochreous yellow. Fore wings yellow, deeper at the base than at the tip, with 

 the middle of the wing discolored with blackish brown, having a purplish hue. 

 At the base of the fold, on its middle and about the end of the disk, are tufts 

 of scales, and with two transnervular lines of scales in the yellow portion. The 

 extreme hind margin is reddish ochreous, varied somewhat with dark brownish. 



These specimens may be only variations of P. s e n t a n a. 



AscHYLOPERA Stephens. 



Fore wings rather narrow, with the tip wixx^LW^ produced acutely, and the hind 

 margin falcate or concave. The disk is slightly above the middle of the wing, 

 widening from base to aper, with four subcosto-marginal nervules : apical 

 simple; two distinct disco-central branches. The medio-posterior arises be- 

 tween the first and second marginal nervules. In the hind wings the discal 

 vein is curved. The median vein is either two -branched, with a medio-discal 

 neivule, or three-branched with the two superior branches on a moderately long com- 

 mon stalk, and a medio-discal nervule on a short peduncle. 



Head rather rough. With ocelli. Face slightly tufted in the middle. Eyes 

 moderate. Antennas setaceous, pubescent beneath. Palpi exceeding the face 

 a little, slightly ascending but porrected, thickly and truncately scaled towards 

 the end ; terminal joint slender, minute, usually drooping, and almost concealed 

 in the terminal scales of the middle joint, which is somewhat curved and 

 roughly scaled beneath and at the end above. Tongue about one-half as long 

 as the anterior coxae, and a little longer than the labial palpi. 



§ Tip of fore icings produced. Median vein of hind wings 2-branched, with 

 medio-discal branch, 

 A. Sp i r ese foli ana . — Palpi white, reddish brown at the base. Head 



[Aug. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 349 



reddish brown. Thorax white, disk reddish brown. Fore wings white with 

 a large reddish brown dorsal patch extending from the base to the middle of 

 the wing, and rounded oa the costal edge ; an oblique fascia of the same hue 

 from the middle of the costa to about the centre of the wing, with the costa 

 exterior to it streaked alternately with white and reddish brown to the apex. 

 The extreme apex reddish brown. Hind wings grayish fuscous. 



The larva feeds on the leaves of Spiraea o p u 1 i f o 1 i a (nine bark.) One of 

 the veins of the leaf is drawn closely to the midrib so as to produce a fold in 

 it from the base, in which the larva lives and feeds on the parenchyma of the 

 leaf. The larva deserts the food plant to form its cocoon, which is slight and 

 woven between applied or folded leaves. The first brood produce images 

 early in July. There is nothing characteristic in the ornamentation of the 

 larva ; its head and body are pale green, or yellowish green. 



A. nubeculana. — Fore wings white with a dark brown dorsal patch 

 extending from the base to the middle of the wing, with its costal edge 

 irregular or doubly curved. The oblique central fascia is almost obsolete 

 except on the middle of the costa where it appears as a dark grayish brown 

 spot, and in the middle of the wing beneath it is a grayish brown round spot 

 exterior to which is a short black dash. The wing above the inner angle is 

 varied with grayish brown and brownish. The costa exterior of the middle is 

 alternately streaked with white and brownish, becoming reddish brown 

 toward the tip. Extreme apex reddish brown. 



A. Platanana . — Fore wings pale reddish ochreous, whitish along the 

 costa at the base, frequently with a semioval patch of the general hue at the 

 base of the inner margin. An abbreviated central, oblique fascia of the general 

 hue, with two reddish brown streaks in the middle of the wing near the hind 

 margin, and the costa from the central fascia to the tip, streaked with the 

 general hue and whitish, and with two white streaks in the cilia beneath the 

 tip. Extreme apex reddish saflFron. Hind wings whitish. 



The larva folds the leaf of sycamore near the base, weaving a web and 

 drawing the side of the leaf to the midi-ib in June and July. 



§§ Tip of fore icings not acutely produced. Fore wings with very faintly 



indicated secondary cell. Hind wings, median vein 2-branched, and with a 



medio-discal branch. 



A. stria tana. — Fore wings grayish brown, with three white streaks 

 from the base, one along the costa, one in the middle of the wing, and one 

 along the inner margin. The costa from the middle of the tip is alternately 

 streaked with white and greyish brown. Ocelloid patch whitish with one or 

 two black streaks, and with scales somewhat silvery internally and externally 

 to the streaks. Hind wings fuscous. 



Dr. Morris. Baltimore and Easton. 



§§ Hind wings with median vein d-branched, the two superior pedunculated. 

 In repose the fore wing^ are hooked in the middle of hind margin. 

 A. CO s t om a cula n a. — Fore wings ochreous- white, with a costal some- 

 what triangular patch extending from the middle to the tip and rounded in the 

 middle of the wing ; in the middle and toward the tip it is dark reddish brown, 

 and along the costa tinted with dark purplish. The costa minutely striated 

 from the base. Hind wings fuscous, paler towards the base. 



Dysodia. 

 Fore wings with a subvitreous spot on the disk ; narrow at the base, dilated 

 beyond the middle ; tip obtusely rounded, hind margin rounded, inner margin 

 sinuous. The disk is above the middle of the wing and is dilated posteriorly. 

 From the subcostal vein arise three very oblique marginal branches, the first 

 behind the middle of the disk and the others approximated near its posterior 



I860.] 




350 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



end ; tlie apical and post-apical nervules arise at a common point, from whicli 

 is given off a faint discal vein, which is obsolete in the middle (?) and gives 

 off on the costal side of the wing a disco-central branch ; another arises on the 

 median side from a short vertical stalk. Median vein 3-brauched, the posterior 

 opposite the first marginal. In the hind wings the subvitreous spot is larger 

 than in the fore wings and angulated ; the tip is very obtusely rounded, and the 

 hind margin is emarginate opposite the disk, which is very broad. The costal 

 and subcostal veins cross each other about the middle of the disk and are 

 continued to the base of the wing separately ; the subcostal is bifid beyond the 

 origin of the discal vein wliich is faint and angulated, and the branches of the 

 subcostal separate from the point of bifurcation. The median vein is three- 

 branched, with a medio-discal nervule running parallel with the superior 

 nervule from an oblique stalk. 



Head smooth, altliough hairy ; rather impacted. Without ocelli. Face 

 broad, rounded. Eyes rather small, not prominent. Antennae setaceous, 

 pubescent beneath. Palpi exceeding the face by about one-third of their 

 length, ascending and rather porrected, tapering from the base to the tip and 

 rather thick; basal joint very hairy ; middle joint tapering to the tip, with an 

 external ridge and squamose, but not hairy ; terminal joint distinct, rather 

 slender, squamose, rather less than one half as long as the middle joint. 

 Tongue stout, and one half as long as the body beneath. 



Thorax thick and tufted ; patagid with long elevated scales. All the femora 

 and tibiae clothed with long hairs. 



D. oculatana . — Head, palpi and pro thorax ochreous-fuscous. Thoracic 

 tuft ochreous. Fore^wings fuscous, varied with ochreous-yellow, with a small 

 subvitreous spot on the disk. The base of the wing and a band just internal 

 to the discal spot ochreous-yellow, each varied with fuscous striae; and crossing 

 the middle of the nervules is another band of the same hue, slightly clouded 

 with fuscous above the middle, having a spot of the same hue behind it, 

 above the inner angle. Hind wings with a large subvitreus spot, produced 

 towards the external margin ; similar in color to the fore wings, but almost 

 reticulated with fuscous. 



The larva is quite as peculiar as the perfect insect. It is sluggish, with a 

 thick and much contracted body, and uniform in diameter. Head as broad 

 as the bo jy, black. Color yellowish or orange yellow, thickly covered with 

 rows of oval, black tubercles each having a hair. The terminal extremity is 

 furnished with a black shield. The second segment (the one next the head) 

 is naked, softish and rather swollen. Length about six lines. The larva has 

 a disagreeable odor. It feeds on Eupatorium a g er atoides (white snake- 

 root) beginning on one side of a leaf to form a cone or cornet, cutting and 

 rolling the separated portion, as it increases in size, sometimes across the 

 entire leaf. At maturity it eats away the closed end of the cone and falling to the 

 earth forms on its surface a silken cocoon. There are two broods of larva, 

 one which matures in June, July, and another in the Fall, to appear as 

 imagos in April. I have never seen the imago on wing, but it will be found, 

 doubtless, wherever its food plant is distributed. The plant is a common one. 

 especially northward. The insect is rather rare in this region. 



Stigmoxota Guenee. 



There is but little that is characteristic in the wing structure. In the fore 

 wings the costa is regularly arched, not broad at the base ; apex obtuse, hind 

 margin rounded, and slightly concave beneath the tip. The disk is rounded 

 behind, placed above the middle of the wing, with a small secondary cell and 

 discal fold distinct. In the hind wings the costal and subcostal veins arise 

 from a common stalk about the middle of the cell. The discal vein is rather 

 faint and slightly angulated in the middle, with a disco-central branch arising 



[Aug. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 351 



belo-iT the middle on a moderate vertical stalk. Median vein with, the two 

 superior nervules arising at a common point. 



Head rather rough, with ocelli. Face broad, rounded. Antennae setaceous, 

 simple. Palpi a little longer than the head, slender, cylindrical and slightly 

 scaly beneath, separated and slightly curved ; terminal joint distinct, cylindri- 

 cal and obovate ; middle joint curved, slightly scaly beneath. Tongue equal 

 in length to the labial palpi. 



S. interst inct ana. — Palpi whitish. Head and thorax dark brown. 

 Fore wings dark brown, with a curved white, somewhat silvery dorsal streak 

 divided in the middle by a dark brown line and a rather faint silvery streak at 

 the inner angle. The costa from near the base to the tip is streaked with yellow- 

 ish white, slightly silvery-hued. Hind wings dark brown, along the costa in the 

 middle, white. 



Halonota Stephens. 



Fore wings with costa regularly arched, but not broad at the base, with a 

 fold at the base in the i^; tip rather acute, hind margin rounded, slightly indented 

 beneath the tip. The disk is rather above the middle of the wing, with a 

 moderate secondary cell and the fold distinct ; the discal vein straight. In the 

 hind wings the costal and subcostal veins are distinct at the base ; the lower branch 

 of the subcostal vein is separated from the upper and is borne on a short nearly 

 straight stalk ; discal vein angulated, giving rise below the middle to a 

 disco-central vein on the nearly vertical stalk. Median with the two superior 

 nervules arising from a common stalk. 



Head scarcely smooth, with large ocelli. Face moderately broad, rather 

 naked beneath the middle. Antennae setaceous, minutely pubescent beneath. 

 Palpi exceeding the face by nearly one half their length, moderately remote, 

 applied to the face and thence porrected, rather broad with spreading scales 

 ^ at the tip of the middle joint above and almost tufted at the tip beneath ; 

 terminal joint slender, drooping somewhat, and nearly as long as the middle 

 joint, but partly concealed in its terminal hairs. Tongue as long as the labial 

 palpi. 



H. s i m u 1 a n a . — Palpi dull ochreous, fuscous at the tip. Head brownish 

 ochreous. Fore wings brown with a slight brassy hue, with an ochreous, 

 dorsal blotch plain in the rj^ and striated with brownish in the O . Costa 

 streaked with ochreous, and with two slightly violet hued streaks from the 

 costa, one running beneath the tip and the other to a faint ocelloid patch, 

 behind which on the hinder margin are three black spots. The apical portion 

 of the wing is varied with ochreous. Hind wings fuscous, white on the costa. 



Dr. Morris. Baltimore and Easton. 



A. i n c a n a n a. — Palpi white. Head dark gray. Fore wings dark brown, va- 

 ried with whitish along the inner margin toward the base, with an oblique dorsal 

 white patch, terminating in the ocelloid patch, with a slender, irregular dark 

 brown line on its middle, and one or two spots on the dorsal edge of the wing. 

 The costa is streaked with white, slightly silvery; beyond the middle of the 

 wing are one or two purplish-hued lines, one of which round the ocelloid 

 patch, where it becomes somewhat diffuse. The ocelloid patch is ochreous, 

 with three black streaks, and is placed nearly in the middle of the apical 

 portion of the wing, with a white spot adjoining and beneath it. Hinder 

 border with three or four terminal black spots above the inner angle. Hind 

 wings dark fuscous, grayish towards the base. 



EpHrppiPHORA Duponchel. 



Fore wings rather narrow ; costa regularly arched ; tip obtuse; hind margin 

 rounded or slightly sinuous. The wing structure as usual. In the hind wings 

 the costal and subcostal are distinct to the base ; the branches of the latter 



I860.] 




352 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



are connivent from their origins. The discal vein is curved, and gives rise to 

 an arched medio-discal nervule. la the median vein the upper nervule is forked 

 remotely from the insertion of the medio-discal. 



Head rather rough. Ocelli large. Face slightly tu.'^ted. Eyes rather promi- 

 nent, round. Antennae setaceous, pubescent beneath. Palpi slightly exceeding 

 the face, ascending, truncate, and thickly haired beneath and at the tip; the 

 terminal joint slender, obovate, much shorter than the middle, which from its 

 clothing appears to be nearly truncate, broad and flattened. Tongue as long 

 as the palpi. 



E. par ma tan a. — Palpi grayish brown. Head brownish. Fore wings 

 brown, varied with darker brown ; with a white dorsal patch near the middle 

 of inner margin, dotted with a few dark brown dots. The costa from the 

 middle to the tip has/owr ivhite spots, each of which has a dark brown streak 

 or spot in the centre; the two nearest the base terminate in faintly violet-hued 

 streaks, the external one running to the hind margin beneath tbe tip, and the 

 internal, which is double, and fainter than the exterior one, terminates in a 

 slightly silvery-hued ocelloid patch, having a pale ochreous centre and two 

 black streaks. Hind wings dark fuscous. 



Amorbia. 



The fore wings are as broad at the base as across the inner angle ; the costa 

 very abruptly arched at the base, and thence slightly and regularly arched to 

 the apex, and icith dispersed tufts of scales on its surface; tip obtuse ; hind margin 

 rounded; inner margin straight. The disk is rather narrow, extends beyond 

 the middle of the wing, is without secondary cell, and with subcostal^ vein 

 arched, the median straight; the apical nervule is furcate near the <2Jo; the 

 medio-posterior nearly opposite the first marginal nervule. In the hind wings 

 the costal and subcostal veins are distinct ; the subcostal vein is furcate ex- 

 ternal to the origin of the discal vein, with branches separating from their origin. 

 Just interior to the origin of the discal vein arises a subcosto-marginal nervule ; 

 the discal vein is much curved, and the medio-discal nervule arises from the 

 median vein, almost at the point of divergence of the two superior branches. 



Head smooth. Without ocelli. Face nearly naked, with a thin horizontal 

 tuft between the antennae. Antennae setaceous. Palpi exceed the face by 

 about one half their length, ascending at the base, and rather thick and por- 

 rected, beaklike; densely clothed with rather appressed scales, convex above, 

 and rather concave below ; terminal joint u-ith its base concealed by its covering, 

 but slender when denuded, and about one half less long than the middle joint. 

 Tongue about as long as the palpi. 



A. humerosana. — Palpi grayish fuscous. Head gray. Fore wings gray, 

 with minute tufts of blackish scales scattered over the surface. The inner mar- 

 gin is pale ferruginous from the base nearly to the inner angle, where the hue 

 becomes somewhat diffuse, and is joined by an oblique dark gray central fascia 

 from the middle of the costa. Hind wings rather dark fuscous. 



Crcesia ? Hiibner. 



Fore wings scarcely as broad toward the base as across the inner angle ; 

 costa arched toward the base, slightly arcuated from the basal curvature to 

 the tip ; unth single elevated scales scattered over the surface of the wing ; hind and 

 inner margins nearly straight, inner angle rounded. The disk is rather nar- 

 row, extends beyond the middle of the wing, without secondary cell, and both 

 the subcostal and median veins slightly curved; the apical vein \s furcate, and 

 the medio-posterior arises at a point opposite the middle of the space between 

 the first and second subcosto-marginal branches. In the hind wings the costal 

 and subcostal arise from a coynmon stalk ; the branches of the subcostal separate 

 from the point of origin, with an oblique, angulated discal vein from the same 



[Aug. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 353 



point; the medio-discal nervule arises from a very short stalk placed at the 

 poiat of separation of the two superior branches of the median vein. 



Head smooth. With small ocelli. Face nearly naked, with a rather long thin 

 horizontal tuft on the forehead. Antennae setaceous, minutely ciliated in the (^, 

 pubescent in the 9- Palpi exceeding the face by much more than one half 

 their length, ascending toward the base, porrected beadlike, densely clothed 

 with scales, which are rather spreading above ; upper edge convex from the 

 middle, beneath nearly straight ; terminal joint smooth, distinctly separated 

 from the terminal scales of the middle joint, which conceal its articulation, 

 less than one half as long as the middle joint. Tongue about one half as long as 

 the labial palpi. 



C. ? r e t ic u 1 a t an a. — Palpi reddish. Head yellow. Fore wings bright 

 deep yellow, beautifully and minutely reticulated with reddish orange. At the 

 base of the inner margin is a small dark red spot, and on the middle of the 

 margin is a triangular dark red dorsal spot, from which proceed two diverging 

 narrow bands of the same hue, somewhat varied with reddish orange, one to 

 the basal third of the costa, the other to the apical third, and crosses another 

 narrow band of the same hue, in the middle of the wing, coming from a dark 

 red spot near the middle of the costa, and is extended to the inner angle. Hind 

 wings straw-color. Tongue wanting. 



Male? Fore wings straw-color, striated with reddish orange rather than 

 reticulated. The markings are essentially the same as in the 9i their color is 

 purplish red, and enclose reddish orange dots. Hind wings white. Tongue 

 one half as long as the palpi. 



C. ? sulfurean a. — Fore wings shining pure yellow, slightly striated with 

 reddish orange ; from the middle of the inner margin two irregular reddish 

 orange lines diverge, and throw off short lateral branches in their course; one 

 runs to the basal third of the costa, the other towards the tip of the wing, 

 where it is connected with small spots of the same hue on the costa, and a 

 stripe along the inner margin. Hind wings whitish. 



PfficiLOCHROMA ? Stephens. 



The fore wings are rather narrow and long; costa regularly arcuated ; tip 

 rather acute; hind margin slightly excavated beneath the tip ; inner margin 

 nearly straight. The disk extends rather beyond the middle of the wing, with 

 a rather large secondary cell; the medio-posterior nervule arises opposite the 

 basal end of the secondary cell. In the hind wings the branches of the sub- 

 costal are connivent ; discal vein curved, and a curved medio-discal arising 

 from the median vein, the upper nervule of which j*/orA:cc? rewio^eZ^/ from the 

 origin of the medio-discal. 



Head rather smooth. With ocelli. Face smooth, with a slight horizontal 

 tuft on the forehead. Antenna; setaceous, pubescent beneath. Palpi exceeding 

 the face by more than one half their length, ascending from the base to the 

 middle, and thence porrected; very broad in the middle, and arched above ; 

 the middle joint thickly clothed with scales, which form a tuft beneath towards 

 the tip; the terminal joint slender, cylindrical, smooth, and almost concealed 

 in the hairs of the middle joint. Tongue extends rather more than cne half 

 the length of the labial palpi. 



P.? dorsisi gnat an a. — Palpi and head brown. Fore wings chocolate 

 brown, grayish brown along the inner margin, beneath the fold, and nearer 

 the base than the inner angle is a semi-oval chestnut brown dorsal spot ex- 

 tending a little beyond the fold. In the middle of the wing is a broad, rich 

 brown, oblique fascia, beyond which the wing is somewhat varied with gray- 

 ish. Costa near the tip slightly striated and grayish. Hind wings with pale 

 shining fuscous. 



P. ? s i m i 1 i a n a. — Palpi and head dull reddish brown. Fore wings some- 

 I860.] 




354 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



what brighter reddish brown, with an obliquely placed deep chestnut brown 

 dorsal demi-band, nearer the base than the inner angle, and extended lo the 

 disk, convex internally and concave externally, and with a small quadrate 

 patch on the inner margin, near the inner angle. Near the hind margin are 

 two subterminal ferruginous lines. Hind wings dark fuscous. 

 This insect may be the 9 of the previous species. 



MONOSPHBAGIS. 



Fore wings with a closely appressed, broai, rounded fold at the base in the (^ . 

 The costa is regularly arcuated from the base to the tip, which, as well as tbe 

 hind margin, is rounded. The disk with a secondary cell; apical vein simple; 

 the medio-posterior nervule arises at a point nearly between the origins of the 

 first and second subcosto-marginal nervules. In the hind wings the branches 

 of the subcostal vein are connivent at their bases ; discal vein arched ; the upper 

 branch of the median is forked near its iniddle, and a curved medio-discal branch 

 arises almost immediately from the median, behind the bifurcation of the upper 

 branch. Thorax crested. 



Head scarcely smooth. With ocelli. Face very slightly tufted in the middle. 

 Antennae rather thick, loith joints closely set and roughened. Palpi equal to the face, 

 arched, cylindrical, covered with appressed scales ; middle joint thickened 

 beyond the middle, and somewhat truncate ; basal joint loith hairy scales, rather 

 longer than the apical, ichich is minute, smooth and placed in the middle of the 

 second joint. Tongue equal to the palpi in length. 



M. otiosana. — Dark brown, with a purplish hue. Fore wings with a 

 rather large quadrate, very pale yellow dorsal patch, and a brownish white 

 ocelloid patch, containing three black points. Costa near the tip, with a few 

 whitish striae, containing a brown central point. Tip and margin beneath it 

 ferruginous. Hind wings dark fuscous. 



LozoPERA ? Stephens. 



Fore wings rather narrow ; costa arcuated, rather abruptly near the tip of 

 the wing; tip rather acute; hind margin obliquely truncate; inner angle 

 rounded, with the cilia produced ; inner margin excavated behind the inner angle, 

 at the end of the submedian vein and thence to the base rounded. The disk is 

 broad behind, without secondary cell, with the discal vein obliquely inclined 

 to the base; apical vein simple; the two superior nervules of the median vein 

 arise from a common point, and tbe medio-posterior nervule is not remote, and is 

 opposite the second marginal nervule. Hind wings rather elongate, not broader 

 than the fore wings ; costal and subcostal veins distinct to the base; subcostal 

 \t\n forked in the apical third of the wing, with the discal vein extremely oblique, 

 arising from the subcostal in the basal third of the u-ing ; the disco-central arises 

 somewhat on the median side, on an oblique stalk; median three-branched, 

 the medio- central and disco-central equidistant from the medio-superior 

 nervule. 



Head smooth. Withorit ocelli. Face smooth (?). Eyes round, moderately 

 prominent. Antennae slender, setaceous. Palpi exceed the face by more than 

 one half their length, rather slender, curved and porrected ; the middle joint 

 suh-tvftcd beneath, v/ith the hairs directed forward, and thinly clothed above; 

 terminal joint placed above the tuft, slender, short, smooth. Tongue not more 

 than one half as long as the labial palpi. 



L. ? a a gust an a. — Palpi and head white, tinged with yellowish. Fore 

 wings pale greenish yellow, with three greenish brown streaks along the costa, 

 the lono'est at the basse, one about the middle, and one near the tip ; a dark 

 greenish brown dorsal patch about the middle of inner margin, and a greenish 

 fascia from the inner margin at the base, inclines to the middle of the costa, and 

 not extended to it. Hind margin with a few terminal dark brownish spots. 

 Hind wings whitish, tinged with fuscous. 



[Aug. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 355 



Argyrolepia ? Stephens. 



Fore wings with the costa regularly arched ; tip obtusely produced ; hind 

 margin oblique and slightly concave beneath the tip; cilia of the innei- angle 

 produced. The disk ample, with the discal vein obliquely inclined ; apical vein 

 simple ; medio-posterior scarcely remote from the penultimate branch. Hind 

 wings with the subcostal vein forked in the apical third, with the discal vein 

 oblique but curved at its origin, midway between the base of the wing and the 

 fork of the subcostal ; the disco-central on an oblique stalk, further from the 

 medio-superior than the central is from the latter. 



Head smooth. Ocelli very small, scarcely perceptible. Antennae setaceous, 

 pubescent. Palpi exceeding the face at least two thirds their length, porrected, 

 rather slender; basal joint curved, and equal to the face; middle joint slightly 

 hairy toward the tip; apical joint minute, ovate. Tongue as long as the labial 

 palpi. 



A. ? lepidan a. — Palpi pale ochreous white. Head ochreous. Fore wings 

 ochreous, somewhat silvery white at the base, with a broad, reddish, fawn- 

 colored central fascia, parallel with the hinder margin, varied somewhat with dark 

 brown on the inner margin. This is edged externally by a somewhat silvery 

 ochreous line, which is furcate above the inner margin, enclosing an ochreous 

 spot. Apical portion of the wing reddish fawn-color, with a few black atoms 

 in the middle of the wing. Hind wings dark fuscous. 



CCELOSTATHMA. 



Fore wings with the costa at the base arched, and thence slightly to the tip : 

 apex acute, hind margin slightly concave. The disk is placed in the middle of 

 t.he wing, with the subcostal and median veins arched, rounded behind, and 

 extending scarcely more than one half the length of fore wings. The subcostal 

 vein has two marginal nervules from the disk, and the apical branch gives rise to 

 another near its origin, exterior to this cell, and becomes /Mrcrtte bchiiul the tip. Hind 

 wings not broader than the fore wings ; costal and subcostal veins distinct, 

 with the latter /urease rather remote from the discal vein, which is curved, and 

 gives rise to a medio-discal uervule, almost in contact with the medio-superior 

 at its origin. 



Head smooth. With ocelli. Face with a slight horizontal tuft, and smooth 

 beneath it. Antennas jo^wmose zn <Ae (5^, pubescent in 9- Palpi exceed the face 

 by one half their length, arching to the middle of the face, thence porrected 

 and tapering to the apical joint ; middle joint with rather long scales from the 

 ■middle to the tip above, and on the entire undersurface ; from its clothing, broad 

 in the middle, and almost trapezoidal ; apical joint smooth, distinct and short : 

 about as long as the basal. Tongue as long as the palpi in the ^ ; nearly obso- 

 lete in the $ (?) 



C. discopunctan a. — Yellowish or luteous yellow. Fore wings with two 

 more or less distinct brown or reddish brown lines from the costa, inclined 

 towards the inner angle ; one nearly central and often shaded exteriorly, the 

 other near the hind margin. Costa with four blackish brown dots near the 

 tip, and a minute black point on the disk. Hind wings pale yellowish. The 

 female is usually darker colored than the male. 



Smicrotes. 

 Fore wings regularly arcuated from the base to the tip ; tip scarcely acute, 

 hind margin obliquely rounded ; inner margin rounded. The disk is long and 

 narrow, and extends to the apical third of the wing; discal vein oblique. The 

 wing structure of fore wings as usual; medio-posterior remote from the penul- 

 timate branch ; cilia of the inner angle somewhat produced. In the hind 

 wings the costa is emarginate or excavated a little exterior to the middle, and 

 along the hind margin ; not broader than the fore wings. The costal and sub- 



1860.] 




356 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



costal veins are distinct to the base, the latter forked near the tip of the vdng; 

 discal vein arising near the middle of the wing, and curved; medio-discal on 

 a very short stalk; the two superior branches of the median from a common 

 point. 



Head scarcely smooth. Ocelli small. Face narrow, rough. Antennae ap- 

 proximated setaceous, pubescent. Palpi exceeding the face scarcely one-fourth 

 their length, slightly curved, rather slender, and somewhat hairy; middle joint 

 truncate, somewhat thickened at its end with scales ; apical joint slender, 

 apparently very minute being almost concealed by the terminal scales of the 

 middle joint, but when denuded, at least one-half as long as the middle. 

 Tongue slightly longer than the palpi. 



S. p eritana. — Brownish ochreous. Fore wings paler on the costa at the 

 base than the inner margin ; with a brown central fascia inclined to the inner 

 angle from about the middle of the costa, edged internally with pale yellowish ; 

 this band is usually rather broad, but sometimes narrow. Near the tip, on the 

 costa. is a dark brownish spot, with a line extending from it to the inner angle. 

 Costa with a few minute brown points. Hind wings rather dark grayish. 



EXAETEMA. 



Fore wings with the costa regularly arched ; tip obtuse and rounded; hind 

 margin rounded, very slightly oblique ; disk with secondary cell. Hind wings 

 rather broader than the fore wings; obtusely angulated on the hind margin, op- 

 posite the median nervules; inner margin deeply and sharply excised, with a 

 cylindrical appendage along the inner margin from the base, the lower portion of which 

 is free; the branches of the subcostal are connivent ; medio-discal arising oa 

 a short stalk at the bifurcation of the two superior branches of the median ; 

 discal vein curved. 



Head rough. With ocelli. Tufted between the antennae. Face smooth, 

 rounded. Antennas setaceous, pubescent beneath. Palpi arched, applied to the 

 face with the tips equal to the base of antennae; with rather hairy scales be- 

 neath from the base to the tip of middle joint, which is slightly scaly at the 

 tip above; terminal joint minute, ovate, distinct and smooth. Tongue about 

 equal to the palpi. 



E. n i t i d a n a. — Palpi yellowish white, terminal joint fuscous. Fore wings 

 dull sordid crimson, witb a pure brown basal patch divided into two portions, 

 one a streak above the median vein, the other a patch beneath it, slightly 

 varied with reddish brown. The central fascia is pure brown, with an irregu- 

 lar internal edge, and externally subdivides into three broad streaks or projec- 

 tions ; that on the inner margin truncate at the inner angle, one in the middle 

 of the wing, and one near the costa acute. Slightly connected with the upper 

 streak, is a curved one of the same hue, varied with reddish brown, running to 

 the middle of the hind margin ; all these streaks are bordered with ochreous. 

 The costa is streaked with reddish brown. Hind wings dark fuscous. 



E. permundana. — Palpi dull yellow, apical joint fuscous. Fore wings 

 with a large dark brown basal patch, varied with testaceous or yellowish. 

 The central fascia is dark brown, varied with testaceous, and is separated 

 "from the basal fascia by a yellowish band, containing dull silvery scales, or a 

 tarnished silvery band ; exteriorly, the fascia throws off three more or less 

 distinct, short, rounded projections, two near the middle of the wing, and the 

 other at the inner margin, with a triangular patch exterior to the latter; from 

 the costa, near the tip, is an oblique, dark brown band, varied with testaceous 

 scales, to the hinder margin, beneath the middle. The interspaces between 

 these markings is filled up with yellowish, somewhat silvery-hued, or with 

 dull, tarnished silvery hue, and the markings are edged with yellow. Costa 

 with yellowish white streaks, with central dark brown streaks. Hind wings 

 dark fuscous. 



TAug. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 357 



The larva binds together the termiaal leaves of Spiraea. It is pale green, 

 touched with yellowish at the junction of the segments ; head and shield 

 black. The larva may be taken in the middle of June. 



E. versicoloran a. — Fore wings yellowish, varied with short, dark brown 

 strias, and shades of the same hue, overlaid with testaceous scales. In the 

 middle of the wing is a dark brownish shade, indicated on the middle of the 

 costa by a nearly square spot. The oblique subterminal band is well indicated, 

 does not reach the costa, and the cilia opposite to it on the hind margin are 

 dark brown. At the tip is a dark brown spot, and the cilia of the tip likewise 

 dark brown. Hind wings fuscous. 



E. inornatan a. — Head and thorax ochreous brown or dark reddish brown , 

 Fore wings whitish testaceous or brownish testaceous, somewhat striated, but 

 without distinct bands. The costa is ferruginous, with rather faint, pale 

 colored streaks. The apical portion of the wing is either brownish ferruginous 

 or testaceous brownish, with one or two faintly indicated lines. Hind wings 

 reddish fuscous or yellowish white, and slightly fuscous along the hind 

 margin. 



The larva has the head and cervical plate colored black. The body, which 

 is white at first, becomes pale green, with rather pale, reddish brown bands 

 produced on the vascular line, and striped on the sides with the same hue ; 

 head, dark reddish brown. It inhabits, in May, a web woven between applied 

 leaves of white oak. The pupa is contained in a flocculent silky cocoon, and 

 is without dorsal spines. The pupa case remains in place after the escape of the 

 imago, which appears about the middle of June. 



E. fasciatana. — Fore wings with a blackish brown basal patch and a 

 broad, nearly square, central fascia of the same hue, separated by a broad 

 silvery white band, having a few dark brown dots on the costa, and a single 

 line of the same hue from the inner margin to the middle of the wing. The 

 oblique band near the tip, runs from the costa to the inner margin, is dark 

 brown, overlaid with testaceous scales, and is bordered on each side by a stripe 

 of dull silvery scales. Costa with geminated white streaks from the middle to 

 the tip. Hind wings dark fuscous. 



Variety ? — Rather paler brown than the above, with similar markings, but 

 the white band, near the base of the fore wings, is tinted with pale brownish, 

 and is striated with dark brownish. 



Hedya Hiibaer. 



Fore wings, costa regularly and slightly arched; tip rather acute, but not 

 produced ; hind margin slightly concave, inner margin rounded ; disk with 

 secondary cell. Hind wings broader than the fore wings ; apex obtusely pro- 

 duced ; hind margin concave beneath the tip. The branches of the subcostal 

 are connivent; the upper branch of the median vein is forked, rather remotely, 

 from the insertion of the medio-discal nervule, and the discal vein is nearly 

 straight. 



Head rough. Ocelli small. Antennte setaceous, pubescent beneath. Palpi 

 equal to the face, slightly ascending; middle joint thickened with scales to- 

 wards its end, particularly beneath, truncate ; terminal joint slender, drooping, 

 minute, and is seen in the lower part of the scales of the middle joint. Tongue 

 rather longer than the palpi. 



H. Pyrifoliana. — Fore wings with a dark brownish gray basal patch : 

 broadly white in the middle of the wing, with the patch produced towards the 

 apex, and sometimes bluish pale gray and indistinct. Exterior to the middle 

 of the wing are dull, bluish, transverse streaks ; and near the apical portion of 

 the hind margin and the inner angle, are short black streaks or spots. The 

 apical portion of the wing has, more or less, the hue of the base. Costa with 



I860.] 24 




358 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



obscure streaks from the middle to the tip. Hind wings fuscous. In orna- 

 mentation, this insect is much like E. f a s c i a t a n a. 



The larva is of a dull amber-brown color, with papilliform points, s'jmewhat 

 darker; head and shield blackish brown. Tt inhabits the pear and plum tree. 

 One of the leaves of a terminal shoot is cut off at the base of its leaf-stalk, lined 

 with silk, and folded; other leaves are attached to this, and it is used eveu 

 after it has become dead and blackened, as a place of concealment. The 

 larva may be taken in April and May, and becomes an imago early in June. 



H. Scudderiana. — Fore wings with a rather small dark brown basal 

 patch, with the edge obliquely inclined to the base, and rather wavy, broadly 

 white in the middle, and somewhat mottled with brownish ; dark brown and 

 white in the apical portion. Along the edge of inner margin is a row of dark 

 brown dots from the base. The costa geminated with yellowish from the 

 middle to the tip. Above the inner angle, is a white ocelloid-like patch, en- 

 circled irregularly with bluish. Hind wings fuscous. 



From S. H. Seudder, Mass. 



Bactra ? Stephens. 



Fore wings with the costa regularly arched, rather abruptly near the tip, 

 which is acute, but not produced ; hind margin truncate from the tip, inner 

 angle rounded, inner margin nearly straight. Wing structure as usual; disk 

 rather narrow, without secondary cell. Hind wings broader than the fore 

 wings, hind margin regularly curved from the tip to the basal angle : branches 

 of the subcostal connivent; discal vein curved; the medio-discal, and the two 

 superior branches of the median, from a common point. 



Head scarcely smooth. With ocelli. Antennae setaceous, pubescent. Palpi 

 very little exceeding the face, cylindrical, slightly ascending ; middle joint 

 thickened with scales beyond the middle; apical joint very minute. Tongue 

 wanting. 



B. ? argutana. — Fore wings ochreous, tinted with reddish brown, and 

 striated with the same hue toward the base, and with dull purplish from the 

 middle to the tip. Above the inner angle is an indistinct ocelloid patch, con- 

 taining two black spots, with a dull, silvery streak exterior to them, and the 

 wing varied with purplish interiorly to it. The costa is streaked with pale 

 ochreous with dark centres, the third from the tip giving rise to a very oblique 

 purplish streak. Hind margin more or less yellowish behind the ocelloid patch 

 and at the tip. Hind wings fuscous or pale ochreous. 



I am well assured of the accuracy of my notes, and yet I find the record of the 

 larval state of this insect quite anomalous : at least, the imagos produced from 

 three larva, which one would declare distinct, are not to be distinguished from 

 each other. One rolls the leaves of ivitch hazel into conical cornets, and 

 binds the rolls with strong and numerous bands. It prepares for pupation by 

 turning down a portion of the leaf. Its body is concolorous reddish, except a 

 few spaces between the anterior rings, where it is pale brown; shield reddish; 

 head pale brown. Another feeds on the leaves of sumach, rolling a leaf 

 spirally in the first place, securing the rolls with bands, and afterwards joining 

 the neighboring leaves to the one first inhabited. Its body is of a dirty green- 

 ish color, with obscure whitish papilliform points. Head whitish, or with a 

 pale brown head and green body, striped with dark green. The third feeds on 

 the leaves of black thorn and elm, drawing them into a fold from the base, and 

 binding it to the midrib. It is concolorous lemon-yellow, with a yellowish 

 brown head. The difterences in color may be reconciled by the supposition, 

 that the descriptions represent different periods in larval life; but if my notes 

 are correct, it is difficult to account for the diflFerence in habits, as shown in 

 the third individual, which agrees in this respect with the larvae of the genus 

 Anchylopera. 



[Aug. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 359 



Endopiza ? Guenee. 



Fore wings with ttie costa regularly arcuated ; tip obtuse and rounded ; hind 

 margin rounded, as well as the inner margin. Neuration normal ; disk with a 

 secondary cell. Hind wings rather broader than the fore wings ; costa slightly 

 concave from the middle; hind margin slightly concave; subcostal nervules 

 connivent at the base ; discal vein curved, with the medio-discal arising from 

 the bifurcation of the two superior branches of the median. 



Head and face rough. With ocelli. Antennee setaceous. Palpi slightly 

 exceeding the face, slightly ascending, truncate ; middle joint slender and 

 cylindrical towards the base, thickened with scales at the tip, so as to be 

 decidedly truncate ; terminal joint minute, ovate. Tongue about as long as the 

 labial palpi. 



E. ? V i t e an a. — Antennaj, basal half pale brownish; apical half dark 

 brown. Fore wings blackish brown, or purplish dark brown, from the base to 

 the middle, and reddish brown or dull ochreous thence to the tip. Near the 

 base is a somewhat curved slender band, and from the middle of the costa a 

 central, oblique, dark brown, or dark reddish brown fascia, widening toward 

 the inner margin, from which it is obliquely cut off by the paler color of the 

 wing, leaving a small triangular spot on the margin near the inner angle. In 

 the middle of the apical portion is a large roundish reddish brown spot, and 

 the costa towards the tip is geminated with pale ochreous. Hind wings 

 fuscous. 



The larva feeds on the fruit of the grape in September; a silken gallery is 

 attached to the external opening in the fruit. Its head is dark brownish ; 

 shield blackish ; body immaculate dark green. It may likewise be taken on the 

 fruit of the wild raspberry in July. The individual feeding on the grape under- 

 goes transformation by weaving a cocoon on the surface of the ground, and that 

 from the raspberry under an excised and turned down portion of a leaf. This, 

 however, may not be its normal habit. 



Another individual, whose imago is included in the description of Vite- 

 ana, and is not distinguishable from it, except by the reddish brown hue 

 of the apical portion of the fore wings, and the general purplish brown hue, 

 differs in habits from it. It lives in a silken gallery, woven in a closed or 

 applied leaf of sassafras; usually the leaf is folded along the face and united 

 with the midrib. It is extremely active and agile in its motions, and weaves 

 with great rapidity. It may be taken early in July. The pupa is contained in 

 the folded leaf, without any cocoon, the tail being attached to a slight web. 

 The imago appears in the latter part of July. 



E? agilana . — Fore wings dark brown, sprinkled with pure brown from 

 the middle to the tip ; at the base is a dull metallic bluish spot, and about the 

 middle of the disk a broad, short stripe from the costa, and streak from the 

 costa at the end of the disk, of the same hue. At the inner angle is an indis- 

 tinct ocelloid patch with an exterior streak and two internal spots of a dull 

 metallic bluish hue. Costa geminated with yellowish from the first costal stripe. 

 Hind wings dark fuscous, white along the costa. 



Carpocapsa Treib. 



Distinctively characterized by the large ocelloid patch at the inner angle of 

 the fore wings, which are much wider across the inner angle than toward 

 the base ; tip usually acute, hind margin slightly concave, (P o m o n e 11 a has 

 neither of these trails;) disk rather above the middle of the wing, rather nar- 

 row, with a secondary cell: apical vein simple. Hind wings slightly broader 

 than the fore wings, nearly ovate; neuration normal, subcostal branches con- 

 nivent, the two superior median nervules oii a very short common stalk, medio- 

 discal on a short, erected stalk. 



Head rather rough. With ocelli. Antennae setaceous, pubescent. Palpi ex- 



I860.] 




360 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



ceeding the face, ascending to its middle, rather slender, clothed thickly with 

 rather appressed scales; apical joint rather stout, small, ovate and smooth. 

 Tongue as long as the palpi. 



C. Pomonella Linn. — Fore wings umber brown, with a slight copperj' 

 hue, varied or marbled with pale grayish. The ocelloid patch is very large, of 

 a fine, deep brown color, with an external and internal streak of bright metal- 

 lic-hued coppery scales, the latter having internal patches of black scales. 

 Hind wings fuscous, with a coppery hue. 



I can perceive no diflference between this and the descriptions of the Euro- 

 pean representative of this species. The larva of both is of a pale pinkish 

 color, and feeds on the fruit of the apple and the pear. The species has proba- 

 bly been introduced from Europe into the United States. 



loPLOCAMA. 



Fore wings with a rather large, distinct ocelloid patch ; nearly as broad 

 at the base &s across the inner angle; costa regularly arched from the base; 

 tip obtuse; hind margin obliquely rounded; apical vein simple; disk rather 

 above the middle of the wing, with secondary cell, median vein straight, sub- 

 costal curved towards the end. The hind wings are broader than the fore 

 wings, ovate; external margin slightly dilated in the middle; subcostal 

 branches connivent ; discal vein arched ; medio-discal on a short erect stalk 

 and the superior branch of the median vein furcate about the middle. 



Head rather smooth ; with ocelli. Face broad. Eyes rather small, promi- 

 nent. Antennae setaceous, with very minute ciliations. Palpi exceeding the 

 face by rather more than one half their length, slightly ascending and porrected, 

 very thickly haired beneath, with a distinct tuft to the basal joint ; mid- 

 dle joint with the hairs towards its tip, longer than the rest, and directed for- 

 ward, almost smooth above ; apical joint minute, and almost concealed in the 

 terminal hairs of the middle joint. Tongue scarcely as long as the palpi. 



I. formosana . — Fore wings dark brownish, with a most beautiful bluish- 

 violet reflection, when viewed from the hinder margin to the base, irrorated 

 with ferruginous brown. The costa toward the tip, as well as at the base, 

 ferruginous-brown, the former streaked with dull silvery. Ocelloid patch, 

 rather large, with two black central streaks and an internal dull silvery streak : 

 the external silvery streak is connected with the third costal streak, which is 

 extended obliquely to it. The costa from the middle to the tip, is geninated 

 with yellowish. Hind wings dark fuscous. 



From Mr. Kennicott, HI. 



This group of insects is probably the most difficult, in a systematic point of 

 view, and the least interesting family in the order of Lepidoptera. The impres- 

 sion I have derived from the study of it, induces me to believe that it is owing 

 chiefly to the artificial system by which it is at present interpreted, and which 

 I have endeavored to follow in this paper. Numerous families, or so-called 

 families, have been arbitrarily instituted on the most trivial and untenable 

 characters, some of which are only sexual peculiarities, while ornamentation 

 appears to be a far more important element than structure, in the diagnoses by 

 which they are characterized. Such an arrangement possesses a certain 

 amount of convenience, inasmuch as it frequently enables the student or 

 inquirer to limit the probable number of genera to which an insect he may 

 wish to classify may belong. This, however, is its total significance, and 

 even in this respect it is often deficient and deceptive. This is a system of 

 convenience and not of nature, which works on categories of structure and re, 

 cognizable conceptions or ideas. 



In my own view, from which, doubtless, many naturalists will dissent, orna- 

 mentation is purely an individual characteristic of species, and although in 

 general sufficiently constant, subject to a degree of variation in the same spe- 

 cies that is often very considerable. Why should that which is unstable in 



[Aug. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 361 



Species receive the stamp of scientific approval in the recognition of superior 

 groups, instead of that which is constant and fixed, which is more or less indi- 

 cative of modes of life, which is the expression in the imago of those categories 

 of thought that we designate genera and families? I cannot perceive why it 

 should be preferred, when I recall the wonderful fertility in structural inven- 

 tion which characterizes every natural family, and the logical connections 

 that exist between all those groups of species composing its various genera. 

 If the specific conception is the same in the preparatory states, and the struc- 

 ture of the various imagos that result is nearly identical, diifering in some 

 trivial peculiarity, perhaps, to which we are unable to assign any significant 

 value, would it not be more scientific and convenient, more natural and phi- 

 losophic indeed, to regard such individuals as forming a distinct group in the 

 genus, to which they are evidently so intimately related, regardless of peculi- 

 arities of ornamentation? 



What would be thought of that system in anthropography which sep- 

 arated men of the same race upon a lon^ or a short nose, a large or small 

 ear, thin or thick lips, or wide or narrow shoulders ? I am not prepared to as- 

 sert, that a principle like this has been introduced into the system which re- 

 presents the present arrangement of this family, but when one recalls its com- 

 parative j9oy«r??/ in generic characters in the imago, or otherwise the extremely 

 close relationship indicated in the diagnoses of many of its genera, the proba- 

 bility of something similar to it having existence is at least suggested to the 

 mind. 



It would be well if entomologists would cultivate just and philosophic con- 

 ceptions respecting the nature of the various groups at present recognized in 

 our systems. No other department of Natural History offers, probably, equal 

 facilities for observation and determining with accuracy the limits of generic 

 and specific cycles. The mind, however, must be disabused of the fallacious 

 notion that the imago is the most important part of species ; that it is, indeed 

 the species, or that classification can be truly and properly made on this basis 

 alone. Perfect insects are easily arranged systematically upon a consideration 

 of their entire structure^ its general agreements and special differences, but 

 there are considerations more important than these involved in the idea of 

 species. 



The " imago" is no more the species which it represents as an individual, 

 than the principal no^in of a grammatical sentence is the idea which may be 

 conveyed to our mental perceptions. Each is necessary to the other, each in- 

 complete without the other, and when a hiatus exists in either case, we are 

 placed simply in a region of conjecture, respecting the significance connected 

 with the representative presented to us. We have an object, but no idea. The 

 noun and the imago may be well known to us, but until we have followed 

 them through all the collateral terms in which they exist as the materials of 

 thought, we cannot duly value the conceptions which may be connected with 

 them. 



The advocates of the Darwinian Theory of the origin of species would have 

 us believe that species is an abstraction ; that it represents nothing ideal; that 

 in nature nothing but individuals exisf, and in these must we look for the cha- 

 racteristics of species. The entire superstructure of reasoning on which the 

 theory is built, is one that admits what is material in the specific group, pro- 

 bably because it is obvious to the senses of every one, but ignores the existence 

 of that which is immaterial, intellectual, ^pzViVwaZ in every true specific creation, 

 and which is to it as the soul to the material body of man ; that which dis- 

 tinguishes the vital machine from mechanical inventions or imitations, created 

 by the conceptions of the human mind. Nor does this belong to the imago 

 alone, but is written in vital characters in the various transitional forms which 

 belong to each species, in their organs, and their acts and manifestations of 

 life, and intelligence or instinct. It is this, the definite conception, that casts 



I860.] 25 




362 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



each individual of a species in the same organic and instinctive mould, that 

 cannot change. Individuals of the same species may change in ornamentation, 

 but never in structure, unless as the consequence of amalgamation with another 

 species, or an occasional abnormal modification, which is individual, not spe- 

 cific, and disappears with the individual. The creative fiat involved in the 

 life of every species and in its conditions, remains unalterable, because change 

 in that which has an organic, vital and spiritual significance cannot take place 

 without destruction to the species. 



The supposition that " profitable variations of structure'' may be initiated in 

 the cell action of the reproductive system, in order that organisms may more 

 successfully maintain an overestimated " struggle for existence," is simply a 

 monstrous physiological fallacy and assumption. If we suppose amalgamating 

 influences to be inoperative, where do we perceive the evidences of it? The 

 vegetable perpetuates itself by a germ, which already has its type distinctly 

 impressed on it before the character of its architecture is developed by the 

 effect of influences under which it is gradually worked out, cell upon cell, in 

 one season or through a long series of years. In the animal, the reproductive 

 action is most probably, nay, there are well ascertained facts which directly 

 teach us that it is a simple process of continuous growth in species. Thus species 

 have not a transient existence, but rather a terrestrial immortality. Individual life 

 is ephemera], specific life co-eternal with the existence of the conception pro- 

 ducing the representative forms. Individual lives are like the leaves of a de- 

 ciduous tree, and having performed their functions are constantly shed, while 

 the source of them continues to spread itself through space and time, until its 

 appointed period has ended. 



Under this simple view of species, supported alike by reason and all carefully 

 collated physiological facts, how the study of the humblest branch of Zoology 

 is ennobled. It acknowledges the existence in nature of a Principle as a 

 creative power, similar to our own minds. It deals with living thoughts, and 

 seeks to represent, through many misconceptions and difficulties, the logical 

 sequences existing amongst them, and to seize the hidden meanings which ap- 

 peal to our intelligence, in the ponderous volume on which they are inscribed. 



XoTE. — The reader is requested to make the following corrections : — 

 In Paper 4, May, 1860, p. 160, for Nomia, read Chrysopora. Nomia is already 

 in use to designate a genus of Bees. 



In Paper 5, June, 1860, p. 219, line 21, for graduation read gradation. 



September Ath. 

 Vice President Bridges in the Chair. 



Twenty- seven members present. 



The following papers were presented for publication : '^ Description 

 of a new species of Astroscopus, Brev., in the Museum of the Academy 

 of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, by Charles C. Abbott." 



" Description of a new species of Chatoessus, Ovv., from New Jersey, 

 by Charles C. Abbott." 



And were referred to a Committee. 



September 11th. 



Vice President Bridges in the Chair, 



Fifteen members present. 



[Sept. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 363 



The following paper was presented for publication : " Descriptions of 

 Reptiles from Tropical America and Asia, bj E. D. Cope." 

 And was referred to a Committee. 



September ISth, 

 Mr. Lea, President, in the Chair. 



Thirty-six members present. 



The following papers were presented for publication : "Descriptions 

 of new species of Crinoidea from the Carboniferous rocks of Illinois and 

 other Western States, by F. B. Meek and A. H. Worthen." 



"On Milne-Edwards' Synonymy of Xiphigorgia setacea, by G 

 H. Horn." 



"Descriptions of new Cretaceous Corals from New Jersey, by "Wm 

 M. Gabb and G. H. Horn." 



" Observations upon the form of the Occiput in the various races of 

 Men, by J. Aitken Meigs." 



" Descriptions of New Birds of Western Africa in the Museum of the 

 Academy of Natural Sciences, by John Cassin." 



" Catalogue of Birds from the Island of St. Thomas, West Indies, 

 collected and presented to the Academy of Natural Sciences by Mr. 

 Robert Swift, with notes, by John Cassin." 



And were referred to Committees. 



Mr. Lea read an extract from a letter from Bishop Elliott, of Georgia, dated 

 University Place, Tennessee, Aug. 28th, 1860, informing him that he had found 

 numerous living specimens of Helix Cumberlandiana, which he had trans- 

 mitted to him. Mr. Lea stated that they had been received by him, and were 

 very interesting, from their having been found near to and at the original 

 locality from which the specimen first described had been taken by Dr. Troost. 



Mr. Lesley stated briefly the results of some observations he made in the 

 White Mountains of New Hampshire during the summer. His visits to this 

 region in 1849, and subsequent years, had laid the foundation for a growing 

 conviction that the range of the White Mountains would prove to be synclinal 

 instead of anticlinal, and therefore of probably Devonian age. A section which 

 he made in 1857, along the Grand Trunk R. R., showed him the synclinal 

 structure, with comparatively low dips, and at least two main anticlinal 

 divisions. The profile in the Franconia notch is evidently a cliff outcrop of a 

 horizontal plate. The newly opened Greely Mountain House in WaterviUe in 

 a cul-de-sac valley at the head of Mad River, and six or eight miles in an east 

 line through the woods from the Flume House, is surrounded by bold outcrops 

 of nearly horizontal massive plates of granite. Ascending Mad River from 

 Campton, the traveller has the White-face range on his right, with apparent 

 gentle dips to the north-west. But on his left he has the Welsh mountain 

 range and Mount Osceola, with an unmistakeable and universal dip, never 

 over 15°, and much of it under 10", to the south-east, which can be studied 

 for at least seven miles, north-east and south-east. Turning to the left and 

 ascending Mount Osceola (which Mr. Lesley found by barometer to be over 

 2600 above the Greely House, and therefore not much lower than Mount 

 Lafayette), the bridle path mounts over successive outcrop edges of perfectly 

 horizontal plates of granite, as evidently and regularly bedded as any of the 

 sandstone masses of the AUeghanies, the bed planes not being at all disguised 

 I860.] 




364 PROCEEDIXGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



by the cleavage planes. Between these plates of granite lie plates of un- 

 changed dark blue sandstone ; a rock -which at the cascades (two miles from 

 the house in another direction) has been mistaken for greenstone trap. The 

 successive terraces and cliffs of the mountain are evidently the consequences of 

 this horizontal and alternate structure. As in other horizontal mountain 

 plateaus the terraces here are projected between the ravines in the form of 

 noses, with straight crests, and terraced or stepped at their ends. In fact, to 

 a practised topographical eye, the aspect of the whole White Mountain range 

 is that of synclinal erosion. 



Other considerations reinforce this opinion. The continuation and broaden- 

 ing of the range north-eastward through Maine and Lower Canada, where super- 

 silurian rocks abound, — the termination of the range soutli-eastward before 

 reaching Massachusetts and Vermont, as the Alleghany synclinal stops at Catts- 

 kill before crossing the Hudson, — the presence of horizontal rocks at Worcester 

 and more generally than would be supposed through middle New England — 

 tke fact that the Connecticut Valley runs everj-where under the western es- 

 carpnuiatr-ef the White Mountains, separating it from the Silurian range of the 

 Green Mountains, — and the presence of Potsdam and other low formations in 

 eastern Massachusetts, — all these facts would find their explanation in a 

 synclinal terminal eroded structure of the White Mountain mass. 



The granite of Mount Osceola and the surrounding heights consists of large 

 crystals of feldspar, smaller crystals of quartz and smaller flakes of mica. 

 Here andK-ihere hornblende appears. The rock bears no resemblance to the 

 subsilurian Highland and Blue Ridge range, and Adirondacks. It is friable 

 under the weather, shedding its crystals upon the ground under every over- 

 hanging ledge. The boulders are rounded by the weather action apparently 

 more than by movement ; for they have only travelled down the slopes be- 

 neath the cliffs from which they have fallen, and where those that remain are 

 sharp-angled. The peculiar gravel and sand of the Mad River Valley is a local 

 drift of similar origin. The metamorphism of these granites is considered by 

 Logan, Hunt, and others, as no longer disputable. Tliey could easily originate 

 in the clayey sandstones of Formations VIII., IX. and X., of the Appalachians. 



Considering the whole White Mountain mass a synclinal plateau, then the sum- 

 mit of Mount Washington, which is such an acknowledged anomaly, becomes 

 regularly the single residual fragment of the highest formation which escaped 

 erosion. Its rock is so different in texture and structure from the rest of the 

 mountains that no other explanation seems possible ; and if this hj-pothesis be 

 adopted, there is no longer any need of that which supposes the submergence 

 of New England up to the base of the head of Mt. Washington and no higher, 

 leaving the head in the air to escape the general rounding and polishing 

 action. It becomes easy to consider the external difference due rather to the 

 difference of the rock formations above and below that horizon. 



It is to be hoped that a systematic explanation will be made of this interest- 

 ing region and the structure made out and mapped, so that we may arrive at 

 conclusions, instead of venturing conjectures. 



Septemher 25t7i. 

 Vice President Bridges in the Chair. 



Thirty six members present. 



The Committee on the paper of Mr. John Cassin, " Descriptions of 

 New Birds from Western Africa in the Museum of the Academy of Na- 

 tural Sciences," reported in favor of its publication in the journal of 

 the Academy. 



On report of the respective Committees, the following papers were 

 ordered to be published in the Proceedings : 



[Sept. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 365 



DescTiption of a new species of Astroscopus, Brev., in the Museum of the 

 Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. 



BY CHARLES C. ABBOTT. 



Astroscopus guttatus Abbott. Plate VII. 



Spec. Char. — Body depressed anteriorly. Head flattened ab )ve. Tvro sub- 

 quadrangular depressions posterior to the orbits. Eyes prominent, situated 

 in circular depressions, and five and a half diameters distant. The base of 

 the two dorsals equals in length the distance from the anterior insertion of 

 the first dorsal to the extremity of the upper jaw. Opercular apparatus large, 

 the branchial aperture unusually wide ; the opercle marked with distinct 

 radiating striae, and margined below with a smooth, thick and semi-transparent 

 membrane, which extends beyond the insertion of the pectoral fin. The in- 

 sertion of the ventral fins is opposite the margin of the preopercle and greatly 

 anterior to the insertion of the pectorals. The insertion of the anal fin is 

 slightly posterior to the anterior insertion of the second dorsal, and extends 

 nearer the base of the caudal than that fin. 



2 



D, 4—14. V, 5. P, 16. A, 13. C, 12 - 



2 



Color. — In the alcoholic specimen. Back, upper portion of the cheeks, up- 

 per part of cranium, and upper jaw, bright chocolate; lighter on the head 

 than body, and the depressions on the upper surface of the head very pale. 

 Belly and throat pure white. The chocolate tinted surfaces are minutely 

 covered with numerous circular spots or guttse, of the same tint, but several 

 shades lighter. The membrane of the first dorsal black ; and the second dor- 

 sal has three irregular bands of dull black, obliquely across it. The caudal 

 with three parallel bands of blackish-brown, the middle of which appears to 

 be the continuation of a variable longitudinal band on the centre of each side. 

 The anal has a variable band of dull brown, darker upon the posterior termi- 

 nation. 



Locality. — Cape May, New Jersey. Beesley's Point ? 



Description of a new species of Chatoessus, Cav., from New Jersey. 

 BY CHARLES C. ABBOTT. 



Chatoessus insociabilis Abbott. 



Sp-'c. Char. — Body compressed, sub-elliptical ; dorsal outline greatly arched 

 anteriorly to the dorsal fin, slightly and obliquely curved posteriorly. Ven- 

 tral outline regularly curved from posterior insertion of the anal fin to the 

 throat. Abdomen compressed, carinate and serrated. The head is very 

 small ; the breadth anterior to the angle of the opercle six-sevenths of the 

 length from occiput to the extremity of the snout. Snout globose ; upper lip 

 fleshy, longer than the lower, which is membraneous. The angle of the jaws 

 in a line with the centre of the orbits. Margin of opercle membraneous, 

 coarsely serrated ; margin of preopercle, membraneous and circular. 



Dorsal fin quadrangular, the posterior ray prolonged ; pectoral fin rounded, 

 reaching beyond the base of the ventral fin ; ventral fin equal in width to its 

 length and reaching a slight distance beyond the posterior insertion of the 

 dorsal fin ; caudal fin forked. The number of the fin rays are, 



D,, 14. P, 16. V, 8. A, 32. C, 28, sometimes 29. 



Color. — Back and upper third of the sides deep green, with a bluish cast in 

 particular lights ; lower two-thirds of the sides and the belly pure white. 

 The deep green above and white beneath, meet abruptly, and do not blend to- 



1860.] 




366 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



gether, except on the peduncle of the tail. The fins partake of the color of 

 the region to which they belong, and exhibit irregularly shaped spots on each. 

 These markings on the fins are very variable, and in some specimens are 

 wanting. A very deep glossy black circular spot, above the angle of the oper- 

 cle, marks the beginning of l^he lateral line, which is only apparent on a very 

 careful examination. Total length, 15 inches ; greatest width, 5j inches. 



This species is possessed of a gizzard similar to that of C. ellipticus 

 Kirtland ; to which species this bears considerable resemblance, yet is very 

 distinct in its general form, color and habits. 



The specimens of this fish, from which the description was taken, I pro- 

 cured in a secluded and very deep sheet of water, known as the "Sturgeon 

 Pond," situated two miles below Trenton, N.J. The following items of its 

 habits were collected from reliable fishermen and by my own observation. 

 This fish is remarkably gregarious, and is never seen associating with any 

 other than its own species ; it is a lover of deep and still water, seldom rising 

 to the surface, and appears very averse to the bright light of the sun. If 

 driven into a stream of water with considerable current, they immediately 

 show signs of uneasiness, and, if not soon liberated, die. Two localities only 

 I am acqiiainted with that abound with this species, and both are deep small 

 lakes formed by the junction of several small streams, and never in these 

 streams has the fish been discovered, except when driven into them by the 

 fishermen. As an article of food they are entirely worthless ; yet they afford 

 much sport to juvenile anglers, by the rapidity with which they may be taken, 

 with a trout-fly, or common angling worm. 



Descriptions of new Cretaceous Corals from New Jersey. 

 BY WM. M. GABB AND GEO. H. HORN. 



Hippothoa irregularis . — Colony spreading, on shells, forming straight, 

 cr but slightly curved lines ; branching nearly at right angles, though gene- 

 rally from but one side of the cell. Cells oval, flattened, placed closely 

 together, united by a stout pedicle. Opening nearly central, with its greatest 

 diameter in the direction of the length of the cell, often with an ovarian 

 vesicle at the distal extremity. 



The shape of the cell of this species relates it nearly to the H. simplex 

 D'Orb. 



Cellepora bilabiata . — Colony encrusting, generally in elongate patches. 

 Cells in lines arranged in an irregular quincunx, convex. Opening, viewed 

 from above, nearly circular. The cell walls above and below the mouth pro- 

 ject, forming two labiate processes. 



Cellepora car in at a. — Colony encrusting. Cells in quincunx. Walls of 

 cells meeting anteriorly, forming a carina, whose apex projects forward, and 

 toward the oral opening, apex often perforated. Carina diminishing as it 

 approaches the cell below. 



Cellepora t y p i c a . — Colony encrusting, in large patches. Cells arranged 

 in radiating lines, usually in quincunx, irregular exteriorly, small, rhom- 

 boidal, spaces between oral openings wide, perforated by numerous large 

 accessory foramina. 



Tliis specimen was found encrusting a Terebratula H a r 1 a n i, to which was 

 also attached an Ostrea panda, both being typical specimens. 



Reticulipora s a g e n a . — Colony large (about one inch in diameter), formed 

 of plates, lateral plates not numerous, given ofi" rectangularly ; summit of 

 plates perforated by cells, and thicker than the rest of the plate ; lateral open- 

 ings triangular, without any marked arrangement. 



Resembles the R. o b 1 i q u a . 



[Sept. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 367 



Reptomulticava cepularis. 

 Alveolites cepularis (?) S. Gr. Morton, Cretaceous. 



Colony irregular, nodulated, with a tendency to an irregular pyramidal 

 outline. Cells elongated, hexagonal, large. 



This is probably the species named by Morton, but as no description or 

 figure was given, it cannot be certainly stated. 



Multicrescis parvicella. — Colony large, anastomosing in the manner 

 of Rhipidigorgia f 1 a b e 1 1 u m. Cells small, resembling those of M. 1 a n a t a 

 Z>' Orb. Cellules wanting. 



Note. — Figures of the above species will be given in the next number of the Journal 

 of the Academj'. 



On Milne-Edwards' Synonymy of Xiphigorgia setacea. 



BY GEO. H. HORN. 



My attention was directed to the above, by finding the polypidom, called by 

 Dana ' ' Gorgonia (Pterogorgia) setacea," classed with the "X. setacea" 

 of M. -Edwards, who considers them synonymous. 



The "X. s e t a c e a " of Edwards is thus described : — 

 " Polypieroide en forme de rubans tres-etroits, flexueus et tres-longs, mais 

 sans vestige de ramifications. Coenenchyme jaune ; vermes calieiferes 

 arrondies, de couleur rose, et formaut, de chacLue cote, une bordure saillante. 

 Hub. — Mers d'Amerique." 

 Pallas' original description is — 



' ' Gorgonia, simplex, rigida, cortice calcareo albo subverrucosa. 

 Locus. — Mare Americanum." 



Dana subsequently amplified the above description, rendering it more ex- 

 plicit. 



" Gorgonia (Pterogorgia) setacea. Whitish, simple, rigid, rarely with a 

 dingle branch ; surface subverruculose ; verruculae minute (one-third of a 

 line), and obsolete, numerous and crowded, mostly on two opposite sides, 

 with a narrow, naked interval between. 

 Laguayra. — Z. Collins." 



The latter description was derived from a specimen in the Academy's 

 Museum, and does not resemble either the description or figure of Milne- 

 Edwards. 



The " X. s e t a c e a, " as described and figured by Milne-Edwards, agrees in 

 every important respect with the "Gorgonia j uncea" of Pallas and subse- 

 quent authors. 



"G. simplicissima, attenuata, subflexuoso, cortice crasso, rubro verrucoso." 

 Pallas, 1766. 



" G. simplicissima, teres, utrinque, attenuata, osse corneo fusco, came 

 ochracea bisulcata, osculis crebris linearibus notata." Ellis, 1786. 



" G. simplicissima, longissima, teres ; came ochracea subminiata ; osctilis, 

 crebris sparsis subgranulatis." Lamarck, 1816. 



From the above descriptions, we conclude, that the species described 

 by Milne-Edwards as "setacea," is none other than the " j u nc ea" of 

 older authors. 



Pterogorgia simplex described by Valenciennes, in Comptes Rendus, 

 xli. (pp. 10, et 13), differs from either the '• s e t acea " or "j uncea" in 

 the form of its " verrues calieiferes." 



The true disposition of these polypidoms appears to be as follows ; — 

 I860.] 




368 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Xiphigorgia j u n c e a Horn. 



Gorgonia juncea Pallas, Elencli. Zoop. 1766, p. 180. 

 Ellis, Nat. Hist. Zooph. 1786, p. 81. 

 Lamarck, Anim. Sans. Vert. 1816, p. 320. 

 Lamouroux, Polyp. Flex. 1816, p. 419. 

 Dana, Zoop. U. S. Exp. 1848, p. 664. 

 Xiphigorgia setacea Edwards, Coralliaires, 1857, p. 172. 



XipWgorgia s e t a ce a Horn. 



Gorgonia setacea Pallas op. cit. p. 182. 

 Lamouroux, op. cit. p. 421. 

 Lamarck, op. cit. Deux. Edit. ii. p. 502. 

 Ptcrogorgia setacea Dana, oj). cit. p. 653. 



Xiphigorgia simplex Horn. 



Pterogorgia simplex Gorg. Comptes Rendus, sli. p. 13. 



Descriptions of Eeptiles from Tropical America and Asia. 

 BY E. D. COPE. 



SiDEROLAMPRUS CopC. 



Scales smooth, foes 5 — 5. Palatine teeth none. Lower eyelid covered with 

 large scales. Nostril in the centre of an elongate nasal plate. Two pairs of 

 supranasals, contiguous. Internasal present, fronto-nasals absent. Frontal 

 in contact with the interparietal, thus separating the fronto-parietals. Parietals 

 small, widely separated by the broad occipital. Tail cylindrical. 



This genus of scinks is most nearly allied to Eumeces and Otosaurus, but 

 may be distinguished by the presence of two pairs of supranasals, and absence 

 of fronto-nasal. 



S. ENNEAGRAMMUS Cope. 



Vertical plate elongate, broadest posteriorly, the lateral borders very con- 

 cave. Palpebral plates five. Tail longer than the head and body. Color 

 above glossy black, shading into ultramarine blue about the middle of the 

 tail. A delicate line of the latter color occupies the centre of each of the cen- 

 tral nine rows of dorsal scales. These are all discontinued upon the occiput, 

 except the external one upon each side, which passes round the side of the 

 head and meets its fellow upon the muzzle. The palpebral and supranasal 

 plates are suffused with blue, and delicately bordered with black. Beneath 

 dirty white, shaded with blue upon the abdomen and tail. Length of head and 

 body to vent, 15 lines ; of tail (mutilated) 16 lines. 



This beautiful little scink was discovered by Sr. Rafael M. De Oca, in the 

 vicinity of Jalapa, Mexico, and obtained for the Academy by Dr. Thomas B. 

 Wilson. 



Tropidonotus compsol^mus Cope. 



Scales in nineteen longitudinal rows, all keeled. Head distinct, short, deep ; 

 profile anteriorly descending. Rostral plate twice as broad as high. Pre- 

 frontals subtriaugular ; loreal longer than high. One rather narrow preocular : 

 postoculars three, the lowest very small. Vertical and superciliaries elongate ; 

 lateral borders of the former scarcely converging ; the latter narrow. Superior 

 labials eight, fourth and fifth entering the orbit. Inferior labials nine. Tail 

 slender, slightly compressed at the base, three-tenths of the total length. Gas- 

 trosteges 126; a divided anal; urosteges G7. Total length 16 inches ; of tail 

 3 iu. 6 lin. 



[Sept. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 869 



Coloration. Above blackish brown, darkest anteriorly. Very indistinct, 

 pale transverse bands are apparent. They are irregularly oblique, and separa- 

 ted by intervals of two or three scales wide. Superior and inferior labials 

 more or less completely margined anteriorly with yellow ; geneial and gular 

 plates spotted irregularly with the same. General color beneath a peculiar 

 stone brown. A darker shade occupies the centres of the gastrosteges as far 

 as the vent. This is almost excluded anteriorly by a cen'ral series of trans- 

 versely elliptical yellow spots, one near the anterior border <if each gastrostege. 

 These become narrower, and broken, and upon the posterior two-thirds of the 

 belly are almost lost. There is a very indistinct row of smaller spots upon 

 each side of it anteriorly. 



Habitat. ? Key West. Mus. Comparative Zoology, Cambridge. 



This species shou'd be compared with T. sipedon, T. celaeno and 

 T. validus. It differs from the first in the number of rows of scales, and 

 from all three in the form of the muzzle and coloration of the lower surface. 

 Thamnophis scalaris Cope. 



Head narrow, elevated, the profile sloping in front, muzzle obtuse. General 

 form moderately sle ider, the tail a little less than one fourth the total length. 

 Superciliary and vertical plates elongate, the lateral borders of the latter 

 straight and convergent. Occipitals elongate. Loreai plate higher than long ; 

 one pre-, three postoculars. Superior labials eight, fourth and fifth entering the 

 orbit. Inferior labials ten. Anterior geneials longer than posterior. Scales 

 in nineteen rows, not emarginate, the external smooth. Gastrosteges 143 ; an 

 entire anal; urosteges 59 pair. 



Coloration. Beneath, and upon the first row of scales, dark, ashy olivaceous, 

 the latter frequently black at their bases. Second and half the third row of 

 scales a little paler. The vertebral, and the borders of one row on each side 

 of it, yellowish. The color of the remainder of the upper surface is brown, 

 anteriorly shaded with olivaceous. This is crossed from the lateral to the 

 dorsal stripe^ on each side, by vertical bars, black, or deep brown bordered 

 with black, numbering from the head to the origin of the tail, about sixty. 

 There is a pair of large spots just behind the occipital plates, and one involving 

 the temporals and the whole of the occipitals, its anterior border trilobate and 

 produced upon the vertical and superciliaries. 'A short yellowish vitta extending 

 from the posterior angle of the former plate along the occipital suture, repre- 

 sents a confluent pair of occipital spots. 



Habitat. Jalapa, Mexico, found by Sr. R. M. De Oca. Mus. Academy. Pre- 

 sented by Thos. B. Wilson, M. D. 

 Arizona Jani Cope. 



Head not very distinct, tapering. Rostral plate rounded, presenting an 

 obtuse angle between the prefrontals, Post-frontals bent upon the sides of 

 the head. Vertical longer than broad, the lateral borders much converging, 

 posterior angle obtuse. Occipitals longer than vertical, subdivided as in 

 PItyophis sp. Nostril between the nasals ; loreai plate longer than high. One 

 preocular not reaching the vertical, three postoculars. Superior labials eight, 

 fourth and fifth entering the orbit, inferior labials twelve, sixth largest. Post- 

 geneials shorter than pre-genials. Scales of the body in twenty-seven or nine 

 rows, the central thirteen keeled. Tail short. 



Coloration. Above, a pale yellowish brown, browner on the crown and 

 muzzle. A series of quadrate dorsal spots extends throughout the whole length, 

 involving from thirteen to seventeen medial rows. Anteriorly they are sepa- 

 rated by spaces eight scales wide, but these intervals diminish posteriorly. 

 There is a lateral series of spots which alternate with those of the dorsal row, 

 and are sometimes confluent with others, which form a series along the tips of 

 the gastrosteges posteriorly. Anteriorly the dorsal intervals are divided by a 

 transverse series of three small spots, which are probably sometimes confluent. 

 These markings are all black anteriorlv ; posteriorly, they are shaded with 



I860.] 




370 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



brown. Belly dirty yellowish. The length and number of gastrosteges of our 

 specimen cannot be given, owing to it3 mu'ilated condition. Urosteges 58, the 

 tail terminating in a rather long corneous appendage. 



Habitat. Buena Vista, Mexico. Lieut. Couch. Mus. Smithsonian. 



This genus is intermediate in structure between Rhinechis " Coluber " Gthr. 

 and Pityophis. It has not the four postfrontals of the last, nor the divided anal 

 shield of the first two. In form, the rostral plate is intermediate between 

 those of "Coluber" and Pityophis. The present species is nearly allied 

 to the A. pleurosticta Cope, {Elaphin pleurostictus Dum. & Bibr.) of 

 Uraguay. Named in honor of Prof. Jan, of Milan, a distinguished herpetolo- 

 gist. 



Dromicus temporalis Cope. 

 ■ Scales in seventeen longitudinal rows. Head distinct, eyes small, anterior; 

 muzzle short. Mouth very inferior. Rostral plate prominent, but barely visi- 

 ble from above : prefrontals small : vertical broad, presenting an obtuse 

 angle anteriorly, one less than a right angle posteriorly, the superciliary bor- 

 ders nearly parallel. Occipitals well developed, each bounded by three large, 

 and two small temporals. Postnasal vertical, crescentic ; loreal confluent with 

 the preocular, (probably not a constant character); postoculars two on one 

 side, one on the other. Superior labials seven, third and fourth entering the 

 orbit. Inferior labials eight, fifth largest, seventh twice the size of the sixth, 

 geneial pairs equal. Gastrosteges 167, a divided anal ; (tail mutilated). Length 

 of head and body seventeen inches. 



Coloration. Above, chocolate brown. A narrow yellow band with a broad 

 blackish superior border extends from the throat to the vent, along the suture 

 of the first and second rows of scales. The greater part of the first row, and 

 the ends of the gastrosteges are involved in a blackish plumbeous band which 

 extends from the throat to the vent : the central third of each scale of the fifth 

 row on each side is brownish-yellow, the upper and lower thirds blackish ; 

 thus is formed a narrow black-edged band, which extends from the 

 throat to the end of the tail A yellow band extends from the superior 

 border of the first upper labial, crosses the lower halves of the posterior 

 labials, and widening, extends upwards upon the temples and neck, forming 

 apparently the rudiments of a collar. Throat and belly saffron yellow. 



Habitat. Probably Cuba. 



Mus. Comparative Zoology, Cambridge, Mass. 



Amastbidium Cope. 



Body cylindrical, elongate; tail moderate, slender. Head distinct, broad, 

 short, tapering rather abruptly. Superior maxillary teeth in a coctinuons 

 series, the last abruptly the longest, not grooved. Pupil round. Top of 

 head flat, separated on the muzzle from the sides, by an angle. Superciliaries 

 prominent. One anterior, two postoculars. Loreal none. Nasals large, one or 

 two, the nostril situated in the centre of the anterior. Scales on the posterior 

 parts of the body, slightly keeled. Anal and subcaudal scutella divided. 



This genus differs from Coronella Laur. in the short, depressed, angular 

 head, and the absence of the loreal plate. The form of the head somewhat re- 

 sembles Xenodon, but the form of the body, the plating and dentition, are dif- 

 ferent. 



A. VELIFERUM Cope. 



Scales in seventeen longitudinal rows, smooth on the anterior half of the 

 body : posteriorly a few dorsal rows with ftiint keels, becoming stronger toward 

 the tail, and extending on all the scales near the anal region. Here they are 

 tuberculous, as in Aspidura t r a c h y p r o c t a noi/s. Tail nearly one-third 

 the total length. Occipital plates large, almost reaching the labials in front, 

 posteriorly accuminate ; vertical long, acute behind; superciliaries large, promi- 



[Sept. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 371 



uent, broad behind. Postfrontals small, their anterior outline regularly 

 curved; piefrontais snaall, quadrangular. Rostral nearly rectangular, not ap- 

 pearing on the surface of the head. Postnasal high, its apex visible from above, 

 opposite the suture between the pre- and postfrontals. Superior labials seven, 

 eye resting on third and fourth. Inferior labials nine. Geneials two pair, the 

 anterior shorter. 



Total length 14 in. 11 lin. tail 4 in. 10 1. Gastrosteges 127, urosteges 85. 



Coloration. Above and below, reddish-brown, paler in the centres of the 

 gastrosteges. Every fourth scale of the fifth row on each side, pale, the adja- 

 cent scales on the fourth and sixth rows, generally darker. Top of the head 

 much lighter, varied anteriorly ; palest behind the eye and above the labials. 

 The latter are dark with a few light spots. 



Habitat. Cocuyas de Veraguas, N. Grenada. Mr. R. W. Mitchell. 



Mus. Academy Natural Sciences. 



The colors of this species are quite similar to those of Tantilla reticulata 

 nob. from the same locality. Its physiognomie is very unprepossessing. 



SCOLECOPHIS FUMICEPS Cope. 



Head not distinct from the body. Scales in fifteen rows. Frontal plates 

 broad and short ; vertical broad, presenting an obtuse angle anteriorly, an acute 

 one postei'iorly, its occipital suture longer than its superciliary. Occipitals 

 large, as long as postfrontals and vertical together. Prenasal large; postnasal 

 prolonged to the single preocular, excluding the loreal. Postoculars two. 

 Superior labials seven, third and fourth entering the orbit, seventh largest. 

 Temporals, two large and two small. Inferior labials six, fourth the largest. 

 Breadth of anterior geneials equal to half their length, which is greater than 

 that of the posterior pair. Gastrosteges 132; a divided anal; urosteges 42. 



Total length 5 inches ; tail 1 in. 10 lin. 



Coloration. Above, uniform pale brown, shading into dirty white beneath. 

 The top of the head, including the oculars and temporals, and for four scales 

 back of the occipitals, blackish-brown. Rostral, prefrontals and upper labials, 

 pale brownish. 



Habitat. Probably Cuba. 



Mus. Comparative Zoology. Cambridge, Mass. 



Fam. ADENOMID^. 

 Opisthoylossa platydactyla without maxillary teeth, with perfectly developed 

 ear, parotid glands, dilated apophyses of sacral vertebra, and palmate feet. 



Adenomcs Cope. 

 Hylaeform. Head broad, short. Parotids above the shoulder, long and nar- 

 row ; skin rough. Vomerine teeth none. Tongue elongate, oval, almost 

 cylindrical anteriorly, posteriorly entire, and free for about two-fifths its length. 

 Tympanum indistinct. Fingers very slightly webbed, the palettes of moderate 

 size. A subgular vocal sac. 



A. BADIOFLAVUS CopC. 



Muzzle short, elevated ; canthus rostralis concave. Nostril oval, lateral. 

 Eyes very large, transverse diameter of the eyelids greater than that of the 

 ossa frontalia. Tympanum inconspicuous, surmounted by small tubercles. 

 Skin of the whole upper surface iuberculous, and especially that of the scapu- 

 lar protuberance, and a short lateral fold. No gular or pectoral fold ; tarsus 

 half the length of the tibia, which is but little longer than the fourth phalanx. 

 Two tubercles on the metatarsus, one on the metacarpus. First finger half the 

 length of the fourth. 



Coloration. Above, ground color, fulvous. The sides as far as the eye, a 

 spot above the anterior canthus of ttie latter, one upon each eyelid, a band be- 

 ginning upon the occiput and bifurcating between the parotids, and a large 

 chevron-shaped band upon the sacral and iliac regions, ferruginous or bav. A 



I860.] 




372 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



broad band of the same bordered with yellow, crosses the closed femora; 

 tibiae and tarsi. A similar one crosses the fore-arm. Upper lip varied with 

 yellow ; a band of the same, extending from the angle of the mouth to the 

 shoulder. Under surface of the belly and extremities, saffron yellow, with 

 some irregular medial spots of an orange bay color. 



Length from muzzle to end of coccyx 1 inch, 2^ lines. Femur from coccyx 

 6^ lines, tibia nearly 7 lines. 



Hahliat. Ceylon. Mus, Acad. Nat. Sciences. From Mr, H. Cuming, in ex. 



Phyllobates tru.ncatus Cope. 



Skin above and below smooth, except some faint granulations upon the 

 posterior part of the abdomen. Tongue small, linear, entire. Thumb nearly 

 as long as the middle digit. Front and canthus rostralis convex. Muzzle con- 

 cave truncate, elevated ; nostrils lateral. Tympanum very near the eye, less 

 than half its size. 



Coloration. Upper and lower surfaces of head, body and extremities a dark 

 ferruginous maroon. A pale, curved line upon each side ; beneath this another 

 one, which unites with its fellow upon the anterior part of the abdomen. From 

 this point of junction a medial band takes its rise, and bifurcates posteriorly. 

 A pair of parallel lines upon the throat, which unite anteriorly, following the 

 curve of the mandible. Extremities sparsely and irregularly spotted with the 

 same faint shade. 



Habitat. ? New Grenada. Mus. Academy. From the Philadelphia Museum, 

 in exchange. 



The species of this genus hitherto described, are P. b i c o 1 o r Bibron, from 

 Cuba, P. melanorrhinus Berthold, from New Granada, and P. a u r a t u s 

 Girard, from Chili. 

 Spklerpes Bellii Gray. 



" Oedipus platydactyhis Tschudi." Baird, Journal Acad. Nat. Sci., Philada. 

 2d ser. vol. i. pp. 282-286, January, 1850. (Not of Tschudi.) 



Spelerpes Bellii Gray, Catalogue Amphibia in Brit, Mus., p. 46, June, 1850. 



Bolitoglossa Mexicana Dumeril, (pars), Erp. Gen., vol. ix., p. 93, 1854. (Ex- 

 clus. all the synonymy). PI. 105, fig. 2. 



'•Salamandra togata Valencienes, Mus. Paris." Dumeril. 



Specimens of this fine Salamander are now in possession of the Academy and 

 of the Smithsonian Institute, which were brought from Jalapa, Mexico, by the 

 well known collector, Sr. De Oca. Though it is a species apparently well 

 known in European collections, considerable confusion exists with regard to 

 the synonymy. This it is the object of the present article to set right as far as 

 the means at the author's disposal may enable him to accomplish it. 



The first published notice of this species is probably that of Professor S. F. 

 Baird, in his valuable " Revision of the North American Tailed Batrachia," as 

 above cited. He supposed it to be the Oedipus p la ty d a c ty 1 u s of Tschudi, 

 as it appears to me incorrectly, though the meagre diagnosis of thai author 

 renders any identification sufiBciently hazardous. The name at the head of this 

 article is that of Dr. J. E. Gray, whose description in the " Catalogue of Ba- 

 trachia Gradientia in the British Museum." no doubt, applies to this species. 

 It is the first name published with an appropriate specific diagnosis, and there- 

 fore is adopted here. Dr. Gray was, however, not aware that to the present 

 species belongs the synonymy and notice of the structure of the toes, quoted 

 from Baird, under the genus Oedipus of the " Catalogue." That this is the 

 case, I have upon the excellent authority of Prof. Baird himself, who states 

 that the appearance of " sucker-like discs upon the extremities of the toes, 

 similar to those of Hyla," resulted from the contraction of the integuments 

 about the proximal phalanges, in an old specimen, thus giving prominence to 

 the small tubercle upon the inferior surface of the extremity of each toe. The 

 Oedipus of Gray appears to be the Oedipus of Tschudi, but I have seen neither 

 specimens nor descriptions which correspond with that of his 0. v a r i e g a t u s. 



[Sept. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 373 



The best description of theSpelerpes Bellii is the first part of that above 

 cited, from the Erpetologie Generale, and which should be regarded as indica- 

 ting the BoUtoglossa Mexkana of the author of that work, although the same 

 species is figured as a variety of another, described in the text in a supplement 

 to the description of the first. The animal described in the supplement, is 

 there regarded, it would appear, correctly, as the Oedipus platydactylusof 

 Tschudi, and is not only specifically, but probably generically distinct from 

 Spelerpes Bellii. 



In size this species is only exceeded by some of the Amblystomata of the Mis- 

 sissippi Valley : one of our specimens is at least eight inches long. The tail, 

 whose length is about equal to that of the head and body, is compressed toward 

 the tip, but cylindrical and greatly swollen at the base, as in Hemidactylium 

 scutatum, though in a greater degree. It is encircled by grooves similar to 

 those of the flanks. The toes are short, broad, depressed, very distinct, and 

 with scarcely a trace of connecting membrane at the base, certainly much less 

 in our specimens than is represented in the fig. in Erp. Generale. The extrem- 

 ity of each is provided beneath with a knob or callosity. The palatine teeth 

 extend from the very exterior point of the posterior border of the palatine 

 bones, and from two nearly transverse arched series, which meet near the cen- 

 tre of the suture with the sphenoid bone. This resembles the arrangement 

 in the Geotriton f u s c u s and the Heredia of Girard, rather than the ordinary 

 Spelerpes, where the series are shorter, more oblique, and not in contact. The 

 patches of sphenoid teeth are more distinct and elongated than in the species 

 of Plethodon, but less so than in Pseudotriton ruber. A considerable space 

 separates these from the posterior angle of the palatine series. 



The fresh specimens of this species that I have seen are of a lead color, other 

 specimens are much darker, but whether this is a result of long preservation 

 in spirits I am not able to state. Upon the back is a double row of obliquely 

 pyriform spots of an orange red in life, but which became j-ellowish white in 

 spirits. These become confluent upon the neck, and, according to authors, are 

 sometimes preceded by a pair of large spots of the same color upon the occi- 

 put. Belly immaculate. 



Geotriton carbonarius Cope. 



'? '■^Salamandra platydactyla Cuvier, ]\Iu3. Paris." 



? Oedipus platydactylus Tschudi, Classif. der Batrachier, p. 93, 1838. 



BoUtoglossa Mexicana Dnmeril, Erp. Gen., vol ix. p. 93, 1854. (Specimens 

 from Vera Paz.) PI. 105, fig. 1. 



There can be little doubt that a salamander exhibiting a structure of the 

 feet similar to that of the present species, furnished the characters of Tschudi's 

 genus Oedipus, and also that of Dr. Gray. What species this reptile pertained 

 to, cannot readily be ascertained, as no description of it appears to have been 

 published, unless it be identical with the 0. variegatus of the latter author. 

 In this case it is not probably the same as that figured in the Erpetologie Gen- 

 erale, and of which two .specimens are before me. 



It is evident that the Oedipus of Tschudi cannot be retained, as founded upon 

 an undescribed species, — even were it sufficiently distinct. That it is not dis- 

 tinct from the Geotriton of Bonaparte, is very probable, although it is contrary 

 to analogy to find a genus of reptiles in so southern a latitude as that of Jala- 

 pa identical upon another hemisphere. With the Geotriton fnscus Bp. 

 before me, I find the following characters common to it and the species which 

 is the subject of this article. Supra and postorbital bony arches absent. 

 Palatine teeth in two transverse regularly arched series almost in contact 

 mediallj'. Sphenoid teeth numerous, in two oval patches upon the sphenoid 

 bone, separated by an interval from the palatines. Tongue boletoid. Paro- 

 tids none. Tail cylindrical. Digits 4 — 5, slender, united by a broad membrane. 



The broad palmation of the fingers and toes distinguishes the genus from 



I860.] 




374: PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



Spelerpes. In the latter genus and its allies, the toes are distinct at all seasons 

 of the year, differing in this respect from the Tritons. 



Upon comparing the dorsal vertebra of the Geotriton fuscus and car- 

 ta o n ar i u s, little material difference is apparent. Those of the former are not 

 so stout, and have the external ridge of the anterior zygapophysis more com- 

 pressed and elevated. In both, there is a single longitudinal spinous process, 

 but little elevated, obsolete upon the posterior part of the vertebra. 



The largest specimen of Geotriton carbonarius measured three inches 

 from the end of the muzzle to tlie vent: from the latter point to the end of the 

 tail is three in. three lines. The ground color above and below is black : the 

 back is marked with a broad, irreguhirly defined brownish yellow band, which 

 extends upon the base of the tail, and bifurcates upon the neck and occiput, 

 leaving a deltoid space of the ground color. This dorsal band is more uniform 

 in a younger specimen. The soles of the feet are pale. There are ten teeth in 

 each of the palatine series, and about three hundred and thirty in the conflu- 

 ent sphenoidal patches. These patches are distinct anteriorly and posteriorly. 

 In Spelerpes Bell ii, they are entirely distinct, and more clavate in outline. 



Catalogue of Birds from the Island of St. Thomas, West Indies, collected and 

 presented to the Academy of Natural Sciences by Mr. Robert Swift. With 



Notes, 



BY JOHN CASSIN. 



1. TlNXUNCCLUS SPABVEKIUS, (LinnsBus). 



Falco sparveriirs, Linn. Sjst. Nat. i. p. 128, (1766). 

 Falco dominicensis, Gm. Syst. Nat. i. p. 285, (1788). 

 Wilson's Am. Orn. ii. pi. 16, iv. pi. 32. Aud. B. of Am. pi. 42, oct. ed. 

 i. pi. 22. 



In a very fine series of specimens in Mr. Swift's collection, I find some 

 cliaracters wMcli are slight, but may be constant, and possibly indicate 

 specific distinctness from the common bird of the United States. The wing 

 coverts liave much, more numerous spots of black, and the outer tail feather 

 lias its inner web always partly, and frequently entirely rufous, the same 

 color as the other tail feathers, and its outer web white, with segments or 

 semi-circular spots of black, having for their bases the shaft of the feather, 

 and all the feathers of the tail are more or less edged and banded witli black 

 on their upper surface. These characters are not usually seen in F. spar- 

 verius of the United States, but are present iu every specimen in the present 

 series and seem especially to characterize the adult plumage. The colors 

 also are rather brighter than in our northern species. 



Seven specimens are in this collection, of which four are in adult plumage. 

 In all of them, of whatever age, there is a large rufous space en the crown, 

 aud the size is very nearly the same as that of specimens from Pennsylvania, 

 or perhaps slightly smaller. The plumage of the present specimens does not 

 correspond with that of either of the proposed distinct species of authors. 



2 Gtmnoglaux nudipes, (Daudin). 



Strix nudipes. Baud. Traite d'Orn. ii. p. 199, (1800). 

 Sclater's Ibis, 1859, pi. 1. Vieill. Ois. Am. Sept. pi. 16. 

 Two specimens in Mr. Swift's collection are much as represented in Mr. 

 Newton's excellent plate, and as described in his very valuable paper on the 

 Birds of St. Croix, in Sclater's Ibis, as cited above. A wide superciliary 

 band ef white is, however, more conspicuous in both of the present specimens, 

 than as represented in the plate, and there are a few other not important dif- 

 ferences. The tarsus is bare for about its lower two-thirds, in this singular 

 species, and covered with very small circular or hexagonal scales. Bill and 

 claws light greenish-yellow, which is probably also the color of the feet in 

 the adult bird. 



[Sept. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 375 



This curious and little known owl, is an exceedingly interesting contri- 

 bution by Mr. Swift to the collection of this Academy, to which specimens 

 from him were for the first time presented some years since. Previously, it 

 was unknown to the naturalists of this country, though they were constantly 

 reminded of it by Vieillot's plate in Ois. d'Am. Sept., cited above. The 

 specimens described originally by Daudin, were from the Island of Porto 

 Rico. 



3. Tyrannus dominicensis, Brisson. 



Tyrannus dominicensis, Briss. Orn. ii. p. 394, (1760). 

 Tyrannus griseus, Vieill. Ois. d'Am. Sept. i. p. 76, ("1807). 

 Vieill. Ois. d'Am. Sept. pi. 46. Aud. B. of Am. pi. 170, oct. ed. i. pi. 55. 

 Numerous specimens very similar to specimens from Florida, but rather 

 lighter colored. I am not sufficiently acquainted with the difficult group of 

 American flycatchers to have entire confidence in my provisional conclusions, 

 but, at present, I am inclined to think the bird now before me, in Mr Swift's 

 collection, is probably entitled to be regarded as distinct, specifically, from 

 the bird of the Southern United States usually bearing the same name. 



4. Tyrannula martinica, (LinnjBus). 



Muscicapa martinica, Linn. Syst. Nat. i. p. 325, (176G). 



Muscicapa albicapilla, Vieill. Ois. d'Am. Sept. p. 66, (1807). 



Muscicapa martinicana cristata, Briss. Orn. ii. p. 362. 

 Vieill. Ois. d'Am. Sept. pi. 37. Brisson Orn. ii. pi. xxxvi. fig. 2. 

 This species scarcely appears to have been identified by late naturalists, but 

 like many others founded on Brisson's descriptions and figures, it is un- 

 doubtedly an absolute and veritable existence. That great ornithologist and 

 most excellent describer, mainly, and in fact almost entirely, relies on speci- 

 mens actually before him, for descriptions, and is exceedingly careful to refer 

 to the collections in which they are to be found. His figures frequently are 

 not recognizable, but no descriptions extant are more complete and satis- 

 factory. 



One specimen only, in Mr. Swift's collection, is not in fully mature plumage, 

 but appears to be the bird described by Brisson, as above, to which Linnaeus 

 gave a name, and an abstract of Brisson's description. It more nearly cor- 

 responds with Vieillot's description than with his figure above cited, but 

 appears to be the species of that author. It is a white-crested species, strictly 

 of the same group, and much resembling Tyrannula albiceps, (D'Orbigny et 

 Lafresnaye), and about the same size. 



This is one of the most interesting birds in Mr. Swift's collection, and we 

 hope to receive other specimens, which he has kindly promised to endeavor 

 to procure. Like all birds in the present collection, it was obtained by Mr. 

 Swift, in the Island of St. Thomas. Brisson's specimens were from the Island 

 of Martinique. 



5. ViRKOSYLVIA AliTILOQDA, (Vieillot). 



Muscicapa altiloqua, Vieill. Ois. d'Am. Sept. i. p. 67, (1807). 

 Vireo longirostris. Swains. Faun. Bor. Am. ii. p. 237, (1831). 

 Phyllomanes mysticalis, Cabanis ? 

 Turdus hispaniolensis, Gmelin ? 

 Cassin, B. of Cal. and Texas, pi. 37. Vieill. Ois. d'Am. Sept. pi. 38. 

 Edwards' Birds, v. pi. 25.3. 

 Mr. Swift's specimens appear to be rather large, but they are apparently 

 identical with the bird of Jamaica and Cuba, and a visitor to Florida. It is 

 easily recognized and distinguished from all other species by the narrow line 

 of black running downward, on each side of the neck, from the base of the 

 lower mandible. I much regret that there is not at present in the Acad. Mus. a 

 series of specimens of this species, sufficient for comparison witli those in the 

 present collection, which, according to my recollection, are larger than usual, 



I860.] 




376 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



and especially stronger in the bill. All the specimens of this species, except 

 one, and specimens of various other species of this group, were stolen by a 

 visitor to the Acad. Mus. some years since, and never recovered. 



Several specimens, in excellent plumage and condition, are in Mr. Swift's 

 collection. 



6. Dendroica petechia, (Linnaeus). 



Motacilla petechia, Linn. Syst. Nat. i. p. 334, (1766). 



Motacilla ruficapilla, Gm. Syst. Nat. ii. p. 971, (17S8). 



Chloris eritachoides, Feuille, Jour. Obs. Phys. iii. p. 413, (1725). 



Ficedula pensylvanica erythrocephalos, Briss. Orn. iii. p. 488. 



Ficedula martinicana, Briss. Orn. iii. p. 490, (1760). 

 Edwards' Birds, v. pi. 256, fig. 2. Vieill. Ois. d'Am. Sept. ii, pi. 91' 

 Bris. Orn. iii. pi. xxii. fig. 4. 

 This is undoubtedly the true Motacilla petechia, Linnaeus, founded on the 

 description of Ficedula martinicana, by Brisson, as above cited. Though we 

 have frequently seen this species in collections, Mr. Swift's specimens are 

 the first that have come under our notice, the locality of which is authentic. 

 Numerous specimens in Mr. Swift's collection are in various plumages, 

 though the greater number are nearly or quite mature, and show the reddish 

 chesnut-colored crown quite well defined and conspicuous. This bird is 

 larger than D. cestiva of the United States, with which it has sometimes been 

 confounded, and is not difficult to recognize from Brisson 's excellent descrip- 

 tion above cited. It is the same bird also as Brisson's Ficedula pensylvanica 

 erythrocephalos, founded on Edwards' figure, above referred to, who (Edwards) 

 expressly states that he did not know the locality of the specimen figured, 

 but guessed, wrongly, that another, received from Pennsylvania, was the 

 female of the same species. Hence concluding erroneously that his bird was 

 a North American species. This erroneous guess and conjectural conclusion 

 misled Brisson, Buflbn, and a host of other authors, to the present era, but is 

 easily detected by referring to the text of Edwards, vol. v. p, 99. 



7. Parula AMERICANA, (Liunseus). 



Parus americanus, Linn. Syst. Nat. i. p. 341, (1766). 

 Motacilla eques. Bod. Tab. PI. Enl. p. 46, (1783). 



Motacilla americana et ludoviciana, Gm. Svst. Nat. i. p. 960, 983, (1788). 

 Sylvia torquata, Viell. Ois. d'Am. Sept.'ii. p. 38, (1808). 

 Sylvia pusilla, Wilson, Am. Om. iv. p. 17, (ISll). 

 Buff. PL Enl. 731, fig. 1. Viell. Ois. d'Am. Sept. ii. pi. 99. Wilson, 

 Am. Orn. iv. pi. 28. Aud. B. of Am. i. pi. 15 oct. ed. ii. pi. 91. 

 One specimen only, in Mr. Swift's collection, is specifically identical with 

 numerous others now before me, from the neighborhood of Philadelphia. 

 In nearly mature plumage and excellent preservation, and probably a winter 

 traveller from its place of nativity in the North. 



8. Merula fuscata, (Vieillot). 



Turdus fuscatus, VieilL Ois. d'Am. Sept. ii. p. 2, (1807). 

 Vieill. Ois. d'Am. Sept. ii. pi. 57, bis. 

 Numerous specimens, and apparently a common species in several of the 

 islands of the West Indies. 



9. Phonipara bicolor, (Linnseus). 



Fringilla bicolor, Linn. Syst. Nat. i. p. 324, (1766). 

 Tiaris omissa, Jardine, Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist. xx. p. 332, (1847) ? 

 Catesby's Carolina, i. pi. 37. Gosse, B. of Jamaica, pi. 64. 

 Two specimens only, in Mr. Swift's collection, are not in fully mature plumage, 

 and we look for others from him with interest. They do not correspond in all 

 respects with specimens in the Acad. Mus., which we have hitherto regarded 

 as certainly the species to which this name is applicable, but we cannot, 

 at present, venture to indicate a different species. It is possible that these 



[Sept. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 377 



specimens are Jardine's Tiaris omissa described as above cited, from the 

 Island of Tobago. 



10. Ceethiola flaveola, (Linnaeus). 



Certbia flaveola, Linn. Syst. Nat. i. p. 187, (1766). 

 Nectarinia antillensis, Lesson, Traite d'Orn. i. p. 304, (1831). 

 Certbia bartbolemica, Sparrm. Mus. Carls. No. 57, (1788) ? 

 Catesbj, Carolina, pi. 59. Swains. Zool. 111. pi. 52. Gosse, B. of Jam. 

 pi. 16. 

 Numerous specimens, in good plumage and excellent condition. Tliev 

 appear to be the same as described and figured by Mr. Gosse, as above, from 

 the Island of Jamaica, and are probably of the species best entitled to the 

 name given by Linnaeus. 



11. Lampornis aukulentus, (Aud. et Vieillot). 



Trochilus aurulentus, Aud. et Vieill. Ois. Dor. i. p. 29, (1802). 

 Trochilus dominicus, Linnjeus ? 

 Trochilus margaritaceus, Gmelin ? 

 Gould, Monog. Troch. pt. xv. pi. Aud. et. Vieill. Ois. Dor. pi. 12, 13. 

 Numerous specimens of both sexes, and in mature plumage. 



12. Eulampis holosericeus, (Linnaeus). 



Trochilus holosericeus, Linn. Syst. Nat. i. p. 191, (1766). 

 Gould, Monog. Troch. pt. xiv. Aud. et Vieill. Ois. Dor. pi. 6, 65. 

 Appears to be this species, and evidently abundant in the Island of St. 

 Thomas. The numerous specimens in Mr. Swift's collection are in very fine 

 plumage. 



13. CoNURus xanthol^mcs, Sclater. 



Conurus xantholaemus, Sclat. Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist. 1859, p. 225. 



Conurus chrysogenys, Massena et Souance, Rev. et. Mag. Zool. 1854 



p. 72? 6 , 



Numerous specimens of both sexes, in mature plumage, and others, which 



are young birds. This appears to be the bird described by Mr. Sclater, and 



we much suspect is also the bird described by Messrs. Massena and Souance, 



as above cited, its affinities being, perhaps, more accurately stated by the 



latter authors. 



14. Melanerpes portoricensis, (Daudin). 



Picus portoricensis, Daud. Am. du Mus. Paris, ii. p. 285, (1803). 

 Picus rubidicoUis, Viell. Ois. d'Am. Sept. ii. p. 63, (1807). 

 Vieill. Ois. d'Am. Sept. ii. pi. 117. Shaw, Nat. Misc. xxii. pi. 953. 

 Several specimens in excellent plumage and preservation. 



15. CoccYzus SENictJLUs, (Latham). 



Cuculus seniculus. Lath. Ind. Orn. i. p. 219, (1790). 

 Aud. B. of Am. pi. 169, oct. ed. iv. pi. 277? 

 Several specimens in Mr. Swift's collection, quite identical with others before 

 us, in Acad. Mus., labelled as from various localities in the West Indies and 

 Northern South America ; but I think, scarcely, the bird figured by Audubon. 



16. Crotophaga ani, Linnaeus. 



Crotophaga ani, Linn. Svst. Nat. i. p. 154, (1766). 

 Buflf. PI. Enl. 102. 

 Numerous specimens. 



17. CoLCMBA corensis, Jacquin. 



Columba corensis, Jacq. Beytr. Gesch. Vog. p. 31, (1784). 

 Columba monticola, Vieill. 

 Columba portoricensis, Temm. 

 Columba imbricata, Wagler. 

 Knip, Pigeons, i. pi. 15. De Sagra's Cuba, Aves, pi. 27. 



I860.] 26 




378 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Numerous specimens in mature plumage. Apparently precisely the same 

 as the bird of Cuba, and other islands of the West Indies. 



18. Zenaida amabilis, Bonaparte. 



Zenaida amabilis, Bonap. Comp. List. 

 Bonap. Am. Orn. iii. pi. 17, fig. 2. Aud. B. of Am. pi. 162, oct. ed. v. 

 pi. 281. 

 Several specimens in very fine plumage and excellent preservation. 



19. Cham^pelia teochila, Bonaparte. 



Chamsepelia trochila, Bonap. Consp. Av. ii. p. 77, (1857). 

 Various specimens in Mr. Swift's collection appear to be this species. They 

 are not, however, in mature plumage. 



20. EtJPSYCHOKTYX SoNNiNii, (Temmiuck). 



Perdix Sonninii, Temm. Pig. et. Grail, iii. p. 451, (1815). 

 Temm. pi. col. 75. Gould, Monog. Odont. pi. 11. 

 Very fine and mature specimens of both sexes. 



Mr. Swift has had the kindness to inform me that this species was intro- 

 duced into the Island of St. Thomas some years since, from Venezuela, and 

 that it has now become of frequent occurrence, quite naturalized, and rearing 

 young freely throughout the island. The present specimens are exactly the 

 species figured by Mr. Gould under this name, and identical with specimens 

 in Acad. Mus., labelled "Venezuela" and "Cumana." 



21. Aegialitis Wilsonics, (Ord.) 



Charadrius Wilsonius, Ord. Wilson's Am. Orn. ix. p. 77, (2d ed. 1825). 



Charadrius crassirostris, Spix, Av. Bras. ii. p. 77, (1825). 



Wilson, Am. Orn. ix. pi. 73. Aud. B. of Am. pi. 219, oct. ed. v. pi. 319. 



Several specimens quite identical with the bird of the eastern and southern 



coasts of the United States. This species evidently has an extended range 



of southern migration during the winter season, though the present locality 



is the most southern that we have yet seen from the West Indies. Its range 



on the coast of the Continent is more southern, and certainly extends to the 



coast of Brazil. 



22. Gallintjla galeata, (Lichtenstein). 



Crex galeata, Licht. Verz. p. 80, (1823). 

 "Gallinula chloropus," Auct. 

 Bonap. Am. Orn. iv. pi. 27. Aud. B. of Am. pi. 244, oct. ed. v. pi. 304. 

 A single specimen, in very fine plumage. 



23. Rallus longirostris, Boddaert. 



Rallus longirostris, Bodd. Tab. PI. Enl. p. 52, (1783). 

 Rallus crepitans, Gm. Syst. Nat. i. p. 713, (1788). 

 Aud. B. of Am. pi. 204, oct. ed. v. pi. 310. Buflf. PI. Enl. 849. 

 Like many other of the shore birds common in the summer, on the coast 

 of the United States, this species performs a very extensive migration, extend- 

 ing, probably, to almost the entire eastern coast of South America, and all the 

 islands of the West Indies. The present specimens are identical with the bird 

 which is abundant on the coast of New Jersey, and in much the same plumage 

 seen in September, or later in the autumn. 



The proper name for this species, I have no doubt, is that here given. The 

 figure in Buffon, as cited, probably represents an autumnal or winter plumage. 



24. BuTOEiPES viRESCENS, (Linnssus). 



Ardea virescens, Linn. Syst. Nat. i. p. 238, (1766). 

 Wilson, Am. Orn. vii. pi. 61. Aud. B. of Am. pi. 333, oct. ed. vi. pi. 367. 

 A single specimen, not in mature plumage, is this, or a nearly allied species. 

 Probably a winter sojourner from the North. 



[Sept 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 379 



25. Nyctherodius violaceus, (Linnaeus). 



Ardea violacea, Linn. Syst. Nat. i. p. 238, (1766). 



Ardea jamaicensis et cayanensis, Gm. Syst. Nat. i. p. 625, 626,(1788). 



Wilson, Am. Orn. viii. pi. 65. And. B. of Am. pi. 336, oct. ed. vi. pi. 364. 



Another wanderer, possibly from the Southern States of North America, 



though understood to be resident in some of the West Indies. One specimen 



only, in Mr. Swift's collection, is iu quite mature plumage, and is identical 



with specimens from the State of Georgia, in the Academy's Museum. 



26. Onychoprion fdliginosps, (Gmelin). 



Sterna fuliginosa, Gm. Syst. Nat. i. p. 605, (1788). 



Wilson, Am. Orn. viii. pi. 72. Aud. B. of Am. pi. 235, oct. ed. vii. ])l. 432. 



A single specimen in mature plumage, is the same species figured by Wilson 



and Audubon. As a bird of North America, it is only known as inhabiting 



the extreme southern coast of the United States, but is abundant in the whole 



southern hemisphere. 



27. Thalasseus. 



A specimen of a young bird of a large, thick-billed species, which I fail to 

 recognize. It may, however, be a common species. 



With this species we close this collection, which, though few in number of 

 species, is a highly interesting and valuable contribution to the Museum of 

 our Academv. 



Descriptions of new species of Crinoidea and EcMnoidea from the Carboniferous 

 rocks of Illinois, and other Western States. 



BY F. B. MEEK AND A. H. WORTHEN, 



Of the Illinois State Geological Survey. 



Although wc have not yet had time to write out full remarks upon the 

 relations of the species described in this paper, we would state that we have 

 compared them carefully, not merely with figures and descriptions, but with 

 authentic specimens of a large majority of the known Americaa Carboniferous 

 species. In comparing them with the forms figured and described in the Iowa 

 Report, as well as with a large number of other Western Carboniferous forms 

 named and described, though not yet published, by Prof. Hall, we have pos- 

 sessed the advantage of having at hand, in almost every instance, the original 

 types of those species which belong to, and are now ia the possession of one 

 of the authors.* 



Full illustrations of all the species, together with remarks, comparisons and 

 extended descriptions will appear in the forthcoming report of the Geological 

 Survey of Illinois. 



Genus PLATYCRINUS, Miller. 



Platycrinus Prattekanus. — Calyx small, wider than high, distinctly trun- 

 cated below and widening gradually upwards, composed of thick, smooth, 

 slightly convex plates, which are united, (excepting the basal series) by 

 grooved sutures. Base comparatively large, more than one-third as high, as 

 wide, and provided with a small rim around the margin of the broad truncated 

 under side; consisting of one pentagonal, and two hexagonal plates, the upper 

 side of the latter being concave in the middle, and about t\vii:e as long as the 

 superior lateral slopes ; sutures carinated, the carina? passing down over the mar- 

 ginal rim of the under side. Columnar facet large, or more than half as wide 

 as the base, and slightly concave. First radial plates a little wider than high, 

 quadrangular, nearly as wide at the base as above, somewhat convex on the 



* Since this was in type we have received a copy of Prof. Hall's supplement to the 

 Iowa Report, in which we see he describes other species not contained in the collec- 

 tions alluded to above. We have carefully compared his descriptions of these additional 

 species with our:?, described in this paper, and believe them to i)e all distinct, unless our 

 Dichocrimis conus may be identical with his D. lams. 



I860.] 




380 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



under side, and provided with a rather broad rounded sinus above for the re- 

 ception? of the second radials, the lower margin of the excavation being but 

 very slightiy projecting. Second radial pieces small, much wider than long, 

 triangular, and about filling the sinus in the upper side of each first radial; 

 concave on their upper sloping sides, which support the primary divisions of 

 the arms. (Anal and interradial pieces unknown.) 



The arms, after the first division on the second radial plate, bifurcate agaia 

 on the second piece, and at least two of the inner of these subdivisions, divide 

 once more on the second piece, (in two of the arms examined). Above these last 

 divisions each arm is slender, nearly cylindrical, and consists of a single series 

 of plates for a short distance, then gradually passes into a double alterna- 

 ting series. The tentacles are closely arranged, and rather thick, where they 

 connect with the arm pieces, but soon taper, and appear to be all made up of 

 long slender joints. 



Height from the base to the summit of the first radials, 0-35 in ; breadth at 

 the top of first radials, 0.45 inch; breadth of base, 0-37 inch; height of do., 

 0-13 inch ; height of first radials, 0-24 inch. 



Kamed in honor of Mr. Henry Pratt€n, deceased, formerly of the Geological 

 Survey of Illinois. 



Locality and position. Randolph County, Hlinois. St. Louis, Limestone of 

 the Subcarboniferous series. 



Platycrinps penicillus. — Body small, subglobose, a little wider than long, 

 composed of thin plates, connected by moderately distinct sutures, and orna- 

 mented by small tubercles or coarse granules, which, on the first radial plates, 

 show a tendency to range themselves in a few radiating rows from the middle 

 of the upper side. Base comparatively large, much depressed, considerably 

 ^ider than high, and broadly truncate, with a marginal rim below. First 

 radial pieces large, nearly fiat, and a little higher than wide : widening some- 

 what from the base, subquadrangular, the upper angles being slightly truncate 

 bv the interradial and anal pieces ; sinus in the upper side for the reception of 

 tiie second radial pieces shallow, and apparently about half as wide as the 

 superior edge. Second radials small, triangular, wider than long, and support- 

 inc on their upper sloping edges the first divisions of the arms. (Anal and 

 interradial pieces unknown.) 



Above the first bifurcation on the second radial pieces, the two divisions of 

 the arms subdivide on the second piece, and the two middle subdivisions each 

 bifurcate again on the second piece, beyond which they are all simple. Imme- 

 diatelv above the last bifurcations, the arms consist of a single series of pieces, 

 which are somewhat wedge-shaped, or alternately longer and shorter on op- 

 posite sides ; then gradually pass into a double series of alternating joints 

 above. The larger single arm pieces, below the bifurcations, and for a short 

 distance above, are generally longer than wide, narrow around the middle, and 

 broader at each estremity, the superior lateral angles projecting for the recep- 

 tion of tentacles. All the larger arm pieces are connected by peculiar undu- 

 lating sutures. 



The column is comparatively large, and seems to have been very flexible. 

 Kear the body it is rounded and composed of thin alternately larger and 

 smaller segments, with sharp edges, which are often crenulated. Farther down 

 it becomes alternately compressed in opposite directions, at intervals of about 

 every five joints ; while all the joints increase somewhat in thickness, and are 

 ornamented with distinct spine-like projecting points or crenulations. About 

 every fifth segment is more prominent on its edges than the others. 



Length, of body from base to the summit of the first radials, 0-21 inch; 

 breadth, about 0-'26 inch ; length of arms, near 0-89 inch 



Locality and position. Hardin County, Illinois. St. Louis Limestone, of the 

 subcarboniferous series. 



Platycrinus plenus. — Calyx subglobose, wider than high, composed of tbinj 



[Sept. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 3S1 



sligbtly granulose plates. Base basin-shaped, expanding rapidly from its small 

 truncated columnar facet, considerably wider than high, and provided with 

 carinated sutures. First radial plates large, about as high as wide, subquad- 

 rangular in outline, the two superior angles being rather distinctly truncated 

 for the reception of the interradial pieces; all nearly, or quite as wide below as 

 above, and provided with a rounded sinus in the upper edge equal to about 

 half their own breadth, for the reception of the second radial pieces. Second 

 radials very small, triangular, about half as long as wide, and supporting en 

 their superior sloping sides, which are distinctly concave, the first divisions of 

 the arms. (Anal plates unknown). Interradial pieces comparatively large, 

 and each provided with a rather distinct central spine or tubercle. 



The arms are rather small, and above the first division on the second radial 

 piece, bifurcate again on the second piece, beyond which tliey appear to 

 be simple in most cases, though some of them present the appearance of sub- 

 dividing again on the second piece. Above the last bifurcation, they are at 

 first composed of a single series of joints, but gradually pass into a double al- 

 ternating series. All the joints below the bifurcations, and some of the larger 

 single ones above, are rather long, constricted around the middle, and provided 

 with a prominent projection on each side above. 



The column is compressed, twisted, and composed of nearly equal, rather short 

 segments, which are occasionally armed with short conical nodes or spines. 



Height from the base to the summit of the first radials, 0-43 inch ; breadth, 

 0-58 inch ; breadth of base, 0-4J inch; height of do.. 0-15 inch. 



Locality and position, same as last. 



Genus DICHOCRINUS, Manster. 



DiCHocRiNus cossTKiCTUs. — Body small, oval subglobose, widest above, con- 

 stricted a little below the middle, and rounded or slightly truncate beneath ; 

 composed of thick plates, which appear to have been smooth, and are joined by 

 linear sutures. Base comparatively large, or forming about one-third the 

 entire length of the body, twice as wide as high, and more or less concave in 

 the middle below; each of its pieces having five obscure angles above, with 

 slight concavities between for the reception of the succeeding range of plates ; 

 columnar facet very small and round. First radial plates higher than wide, a 

 little unequal, having an oblong subquadrangular outline, the two upper angles 

 of each being slightly truncated, apparently for the reception of very small 

 interradial pieces ; one of them having a fifth obscure angle in the middle of 

 the under side. Sinus in the upper side of each first radial for the reception of 

 the second radials, rounded, and from one-third to one-half the breadth of these 

 plates. Anal piece slightly larger than the first radials, and having a subpenta- 

 gonal outline, narrowing upwards a little, and like the first radials, curving 

 inward above. (Other parts unknown.) 



Length, 0-39 inch ; breadth above the middle, 0-38 inch; do. at the constric- 

 tion below the middle, 0-32 inch; breadth of base, 0-33 inch; height of do., 

 0-14 inch. 



Locality and position. Bloomington, Indiana ; in beds probably equivalent to 

 the Warsaw Limestone, of the subcarboniferous series. 



DiCH0CRiN'C.s coNus. — Body large, obconical, longer than wide, composed of 

 thin, smooth plates, which are united by close fitting, linear sutures. Base 

 comparatively large, a little longer than wide, tapering regularly to the small 

 inferior extremity, which is slightly truncate ; both pieces subtrigonal in out- 

 line, though really hexagonal, if we count the slightly salient angles between 

 the shallow sinuosities in the upper margins : columnar facet small, round ? and 

 provided with a small rim. Radial pieces large, longer than wide, presenting 

 an oblong outline, slightly wider above than at the base ; all more or less con- 

 vex on the inferior margins, which in the anterior one, is provided with an 

 obtuse central angle ; sinus in the upper margin of each, about oae-third as wide 



I860.] 




S82 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



as the superior edge, and excavated down nearly one-fifth the length of the 

 plate, its lower edge projecting distinctly outward. Anal plate hexagonal, as 

 long as the radials, but a little narrower, about twice as high as wide. 



Each radial plate, as well as the anal piece, has an obscure rounded ridge 

 extending down the middle to its base, so as to give the body a slightly sub- 

 liexagonul outline when viewed from below. These prominences are also con- 

 tinued on down upon the basal pieces, gradually becoming obsolete as they 

 converge to^vard the narrow lower extremity. 



Length of the body to the summit of the first radials, 1-31 inches; breadth 

 about 1-16 inches : height of base Oo8 inch ; breadth of do. above, 076 in. 



Locality and position. Cedar Creek, Warren County, Illinois. Burlington, 

 Limestone of subcarboniferous series. 



DicHOCRiNrs (Pterotccrinus*) crasscs. — Body below the arms of medium size 

 basin-shaped, or more than twice as wide as high, widening rapidly upwards 

 from the base, and composed of thick, apparently, smooth plates, which are 

 very slightly convex, and connected by linear sutures. Base comparatively 

 large, about four times as wide as high, distinctly concave below, and widening 

 upwards from its rounded lower margin ; subcircular in outline, being scarcely 

 impressed at the sutures ; columnar facet round, concave, and about one-fourth 

 as wide as the base. First radial plates broader than long, widening regularly 

 upwards from the base, and all concave on the upper side, which is longer than 

 either of the others : four of them quadrangular, and one on the anterior side 

 probably subpentagonal, fi-om the presence of a fifth obscure angle at the 

 middle of the under side. Second radial pieces very small, about twice 

 as wide as louff, subtrigonal in outline, and supporting on their superior 

 sloping sides, (which are a little concave.) the two middle arms, while the two 

 lateral arms rest partly upon their wedge-shaped lateral extremities, and in 

 part directly upon the first radials. The anal piece is rather more than half as 

 large as the first radial plates, a little longer than wide, (the lateral margins 

 being nearly parallel or slightly convex in outline,) and presenting a subquad- 

 rangular form, with a fifth obscure angle at the middle of the base. 



*This and the first of the following species, evidently belong to the same group as the 

 species upon which Mr. Lyon proposed, in the third volume of the Geological Sur- 

 vej' of Kentucky, to found a new genus under the n^me oi Asterocriniis {Pterotocrinus, 

 Lyon &, f'asseday). The species of which it is composed present marked dififerences 

 from what are regarded as typical species of Dichocrinus in the old world, and we have 

 little doubt in regard to the propriety of separating them from that genus. As there are, 

 however, si-me differences of opinion, amongst paleontologists, in relation to the limits 

 of the genus Dichocrinus, we have concluded to place our species in the group Pteroto- 

 crinus', using tne name provisionally, however, for the present, in a subgeneric sense. 



Judging from the few species of this group we have yet seen, we are led to think the 

 formula given by Messrs. Lyon and Casseday, in their paper published in the American 

 Journal of Science, (January, 1859,) should be modified somewhat. In one of our species 

 there is a minute triangular piece resting upon the middle of each first radial, and 

 partly supporting on its superior sloping sides the two pieces regarded in Messrs. Lyon 

 and Casseday"s formula as the second radial. In another of our species this minute 

 piece is represenied by a larger one of the same form, which undoubtedly bears the re- 

 lations ro ihe other parts, of a dwarfed, but true second radial; while those resting upon, 

 and partly upon it, assume the character of secondary radials and free arm pieces. 

 Hence we think this minute piece (which is sometimes wanting), however small it may 

 be, should always be regarded as a rudimentary second radial piece. If we are correct 

 in these views, the formula of this group should be stated as follows: — 



Basal pieces, 2. 



Radials I or 2X5, the second being very small, minute, or sometimes obsolete. 



Secondary radials. IX 10, or wanting; the first free arm pieces sometimes resting 

 partly on the second and partly on the first radials; and wnere the small second radial 

 and the secondary radials are wanting, all resting directly upon the first. 



Arms, 20. 



Interradials unknown. 



Interbrachia) appendages 5, larse, and more or less expanded. 



[Sept. 




NATUKAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELrHIA, 383 



The first arm pieces are much larger than the others, and consist of a single 

 series ; but above these the arms soon pass into a double series of small 

 alternating pieces, which are considerably wider than long, and support 

 on the inner side a double series of closely arranged tentacles. The 

 arms, of which there are four to each ray, or twenty in the entire series, 

 are rounded on the outside, and deeply grooved within, slightly taper- 

 ing, apparently rather long, and entirely simple. The interbrachial appendage, 

 rising from the middle of each group of arms, is thin or knife-like, and 

 seems to have been nearly as long as the arms. 



Locality and position. Hardin County, Illinois. Chester Limestone, of sub- 

 carboniferous series. 



DiCHOCRiN'us (Pterotocrinus) Chesteeessis. — Body below the arms rather 

 small, basin-shaped, or more than twice as wide as high, widening rapidly up- 

 wards from the base, the sides being slightly concave in outline; composed of 

 moderately thick, apparently smooth plates, which are connected by linear 

 sutures. Base more than one-third as broad as the body, about three times as 

 wide as high, truncate and concave below, the concavity being margined by an 

 angular rim ; columnar facet small, or less than one-third as broad as the trun- 

 cated under side of the base. First radial plates about the size of the basal 

 pieces, though proportionally higher, twice as wide as long, and widening 

 rather rapidly from below ; four of them quadrangular, and one on the anterior 

 side, pentagonal; all distinctly concave on the upper side, (which is longer 

 than either of the others) and having their salient lateral angles above slightly 

 truncated, apparently for the reception of small interradial pieces. Second 

 radial pieces minute, or merely rudimentary, triangular, and each partly 

 supporting on its sloping upper edges two larger secondary radial pieces, 

 which also rest with one side on the primary radials, and bear upon their 

 superior sloping sides the first brachial pieces, the outer of which, like- 

 wise have one edge reposing upon the lateral superior edge of the first radial 

 plates. Anal piece about one-third as large as the primary radials, ovate in 

 form, the upper extremity being very narrow, and the long lateral margin 

 convex, while its base has an obtuse angle on each side, and one in the middle. 



The arms, of which there are four to each ray, or twenty in the entire range, 

 are simple from their origin, rounded on the outside, deeply grooved within, 

 and commence as a single series of larger pieces, but soon pass into a double 

 alternating series of small pieces, which support on their inner sides two ranges 

 of tentacles. The interbrachial appendages, if there are any in this species, are 

 unknown. 



Height from base to summit of first radial pieces, 0-16 inch ; breadth at the 

 top of first radials, 0-40 inch ; breadth of base, 0-2-1 inch ; height of do., 0-16 

 inch; length of anal piece, 0-15 inch ; breadth of do., 009 inch. 



Locality and position. Chester, Illinois. Chester Limestone of the subcar- 

 boniferous series. 



Genus TREMATOCRLNUS, Hall, 1860. 



Trematocrincs fiscellus.* — Body short, subcj-lindrical, slightly longer than 

 wide, truncated and concave at the base, and nearly flat above ; sides rising 



* In first sending on the description of this species to the Academy, we had proposed 

 to found upon it a subgenus, which we placed provisionally under Acaiithocrinus, stating, 

 at the same time, thai it presented differences from the type of that genus, that might 

 be of full generic value. As this paper is going through the press, we have received a 

 copy of Prof. Hall's Supplement to the Iowa Report (just published), in which we see he 

 has described four species of this type under the name of Trematocrinus. SVc lliere- 

 fore cancel, in ihe proof of our paper, the description of the group, and refer our 

 species, which is clearly distinct, specifically, from the forms described by Prol'i Hall, 

 to his genus Tiematocrinus. 



In our remarks (now cancelled) on this group, we had pointed out its relations not only 

 to Acanthocrinus, but also to lihodocrinus, Miller, and to Gojtiasleroidocriinis of Lyon 

 and Caeseday. Its analogy to the latter is so striking, that we strongly suspect the s;ime 



I860.] 




384 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



almost Tertically to near the arms, where they carve a little outwards. Plates 

 nearly smooth or subgranulose, and all convex, chose of the subovate inter- 

 radial spaces less prominent than the rays, and showing a very slight tendency 

 to develope obscure ridges, one of which passes to each side ; sutures mode- 

 rately distinct. Base small, entirely within the concavity of the under side, 

 concave, and obscurely pentagonal ; columnar facet large, or occupying 

 nearly the whole area of the base, obscurely marked by radiating striae, and 

 provided with a small penatgonal star-shaped central opening. Subradial 

 pieces as wide as long, truncated, and narrower above than below, subquad- 

 rangular in outliuf , but provided with a fifth very obtuse angle in the middle 

 below, and having each inferior lateral angle slightly truncated. First radial 

 pieces larger than the subradials, and wedged so far in between them as to 

 come nearly in contact with the base, about as wide as long, heptagonal, the 

 sides connecting with subradials being longer than the others. Second radials 

 hexagonal, as long as wide. Third radials heptagonal, and supporting on their 

 superior sloping sides the first secondary radials, each of which is succeeded by 

 two others, the last of which supports the first true brachial piece. 



The first interradial pieces rest upon the superior truncated side of the sub- 

 radials, which are about equal in size ; they are all hexagonal, the inferior 

 lateral edges being very short, and the under side longer than either of the 

 others. Above these there are in the second range three, in the third three 

 or four, and in the fourth three pieces, the latter being surmounted by three 

 or four others ; all the series diminish gradually from below to the summit. 

 (Anal plates unknown.) 



The interbrachial pieces are all very small, two of them being wedged down 

 in the narrow space between the first and second secondary radial pieces, 

 while the others are arranged so as to form the upper and inner side of the 

 two small ambulacral apertures — the outer and lower sides of which are 

 formed partly by a sinus in the edge of the second secondary radial pieces, 

 and partly by one side of the third. 



The secondary radials diverge so that those belonging to different rays meet, 

 over the centre of each interradial space, where the arms — of which there 

 appear to be ten, arise. The first brachial pieces are not quite free, being 

 flanked on either side by the interbrachial pieces, forming the summit of the 

 aperture?. They are all pierced directly through the middle by the arm 

 openings. 



The summit is very slightly convex, and composed of unequal plates, the 

 larger of which are tumid, and the smaller less convex. Extending from 

 each arm, towards the middle, there is a depression occupied by smaller 

 pieces, while the larger and more convex plates occupy the prominences be- 

 tween. The specimen examined being a little defective on one side, the exact 

 jiosition of the anal opening, if any exists, cannot be determined. 



Height to top of first brachial pieces, 0-48 inch ; do. to ambulacral apertures. 

 0-39 inch; do. to top of vault, 056. Breadth below the arms, 0-51 inch. 



Locality and position. — Burlington Limestone of subcarboniferous series. 

 Burlington, Iowa. 



Genus ACTINOCRINUS, lliller. 

 AcTiNOCRiNtJS VALiDUs. — Body of medium size, subglobose, being more de- 

 pressed above than below the arms ; calyx somewhat ventricose, and formed 

 of thick, convex, radiately costate plates, connected by moderately distinct 

 sutures: summit composed of small irregular tuberculose pieces, and provided 



ambulacral openings may exist in the type of that genus, and that in consequence of the 

 imperfection of their specimens, Messrs Lyon and Casseday may have failed to see 

 them. If so, all the species will probably have to be ranged under their name, which 

 was first published, unless when ttse characters and limits of Acanthocrinus are better 

 known, it may be found that these American forms should only constitute a section of 

 ihat genus. Prof. Hall seems to have overlooked the almost exact identity in the 

 generic formula of his group with that given of Goniasleroidocrinus. 



[Sepf. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 385 



with a subcentral proboscis ; interradial spaces between tlie arms deeply exca- 

 vated. Base rather small, truncated and concave below, about four times as 

 wide as high, not provided with a continuous rim; composed of somewhat un- 

 equal plates, with deeply grooved sutures between ; columnar facet nearly two- 

 thirds as broad as the base, concave, and marked by fine radiating striae. First 

 radial plates a little wider than high, two of them hexagonal, and three hepta- 

 gonal, the angle at the middle of the lower side of each being very obtuse. Sec- 

 ond radials wider than long, hexagonal and heptagonal. about one-half to two- 

 thirds as large as the first radials, and like them ranging obliquely outward 

 and upward from the base. Third radial pieces, smaller than the second, from 

 which they extend almost horizontally outwards ; arcuate transversely, their 

 lateral extremities curving up to connect with the superior arm pieces, hexa- 

 gonal, and each supporting on its superior (,or more properly its outer) sloping 

 sides two secondary radial pieces, which also extend out hcrizontally from the 

 body. 



The first anal piece is nearly as large as the first radials, about as wide as 

 long, hexagonal, and supports on its superior sloping sides two smaller hexa- 

 gonal and heptagonal pieces in the second range ; above these there are in the 

 next range, three or four smaller pieces, which connect with the vault and 

 superior arm pieces above and on each side. The first interradial plates are 

 about the size of the second radials, as long as wide, heptagonal (and hexago- 

 nal) and support two or three smaller pieces in the next range. 



Of the distinct radiating costae on the first radial plates, from three to four 

 pass across from one to the other, and from each to the base, and one or two 

 to the second radial, and each first interradial above; while the third radials 

 are destitute of costae. 



Height from base to summit of third radials, 0-65 inch ; do., to top of vault, 

 0-95 inch; breadth (across between the arms) 0-91 inch; breadth of base 0-42 

 inch ; height of do., 0-12 inch. 



Locality and position. Cedar Creek, Warren County, Illinois. Burlington 

 Limestone of lower carboniferous series. 



AcTixocRiNCS ASTERisccs. — Bodyabout medium size, depressed or subdiscoidal. 

 rather more convex below than above the arms ; calyx expanding rapidly from 

 the base about half way up, then flaring outwards so as to bring the third ra- 

 dials and succeeding pieces nearly upon a horizontal plane, composed of thin, 

 nearly smooth flattened plates, which are joined by close fitting sutures; sum- 

 mit much depressed, consisting of numerous medium-sized, convex plates, and 

 provided with a-subcentral proboscis ; interradial spaces deeply excavated, so as 

 to give the body a distinct^- pentalobate outline, as seen from above or below. 

 Base small, apparently rounded and destitute of a marginal rim, about three 

 times as wide as high. First radial plates wider than long, expanding from below 

 to the lateral angles, three of them hexagonal, and two heptagonal, the angle at 

 the middle of the base of the latter being very obtuse. Second radials small, 

 abouttwice as wide as long, hexagonal and pentagonal. Third radials slightly 

 larger than the second, pentagonal, or occasionally hexagonal about twice as 

 wide as high, and each supporting on its superior (or more properly, outer) 

 sloping sides, two secondary radials ; these are each succeeded by another, 

 which in its turn, supports two of the first brachial pieces, making four arms 

 to each ray, or twenty in the whole series, all of which seem to rise vertically 

 from the point of attachment. 



The first anal piece is small, longer than wide, hexagonal, and supports on 

 each superior lateral edge a small pentagonal piece, and on its truncated 

 upper end a long, narrow, irregular plate, which extends up and curves 

 inwards with its superior extremity between two of the crown plates. On each 

 side of the latter there is a large irregular curved piece, belonging, probably, 

 to the anal series. The first interradial plates are larger than the first anal 

 piece, and as wide as, or wider than long, hexagonal or heptagonal, and each 

 supports on its superior lateral sloping edges smaller pieces, above which 



1860.J 




386 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



there are usually three, or occasionally four, irregular elongated pieces, similar 

 to the upper of the anal series. Sometimes the middle one of these three 

 pieces extends down between the others, so as to rest upon a short, truncated, 

 upper end of the first interradial piece. (Other parts unknown.) 



Height from base to top of vault, 0-47 inch ; do. to arms, 037 inch ; breadth 

 across, from side to side, between the interradial 0-66 inch. 



Locality and jjosition. Same as last. 



AcTiNocRiNCS SPECioscs. — Body large, below the arms obconical, longer than 

 wide, composed of convex, ornately costate plates, which are joined by more or 

 less excavated sutures. Base of moderate size, cup-shaped, nearly as wide 

 again as high, truncate below, and expanding rather rapidly upward, composed 

 of regular subequal hexagonal plates, with broadly and deeply grooved sutures. 

 Columnar facet rather large, or nearly equaling one-half the breadth of the 

 base, flat, marked by obscure radiating stria;, and provided with a very small 

 continuous rim ; perforated by a round central opening about one-third the 

 diameter of the column at its junction with the body. First radial plates large, 

 longer than wide, three hexagonal, and two heptagonal, generally widest a 

 little above the middle. Second radials considerably smaller than the first, 

 about as wide as long, and apparently all hexagonal. Third radials a little 

 smaller than the second, wider than long, heptagonal, (and octagonal ?) each 

 supporting on its superior sloping sides two smaller heptagonal or octagonal 

 secondary radials, which appear to have each supported two brachial pieces ; 

 resting upon and between the two secondary radials, there is a small hexagonal 

 interbrachial ^piece, which appears to have supported two others on its upper 

 sloping sides. 



The first anal plate, which is nearly as large as the first radials, is heptagonal, 

 longer than wide, and supports in the first range three much smaller pieces, 

 the middle one of which, is pentagonal, and the others hexagonal; above these 

 in the next range, there are four, and in the third, apparently three pieces, 

 which is as far as they can be traced in the specimen examined. 



The first interradial plates are slightly larger than the second radials, hexa- 

 gonal, and each surmounted by two smaller pieces ; above these there are, 

 apparently, about three other ranges of two small pieces each. 



The surface of the plates is neatly ornamented by narrow, sharply elevated 

 ribs, about four to six of which radiate from the central region of each first 

 radial plate to each of its sides, excepting below the middle, where there are 

 usually about eight to ten. The costs on the other plates are less numerous 

 in proportion to the size of each, and like those on the first radials, extend to 

 the sides, those crossing any one side being all arranged parallel to each other 

 so as to form with those on the adjacent plates a series of concentric equila- 

 teral triangles. Sometimes these costs are irregularly interrupted, or more or 

 less notched, especially on the upper plates; and on some of the upper inter- 

 radial pieces they show a tendency to become irregularly broken up into little 

 spine-like projections. 



Locality and position. Three miles west of Burlington, Iowa. Burlington 

 Limestone of the subcarboniferous series. 



AcTixocEisrs sciLUTus. — Body [rather under medium size, unsymmetrically 

 urn-shaped, the summit being moderately convex, and the calyx below the 

 arms obconical, with a truncated base ; expanding regularly with straight 

 sides from the base to the third radials, above which the secondary radial, and 

 first brachial pieces extend out horizontally, leaving excavated interradial 

 spaces between the clusters of arms ; sutures close fitting. Base of moderate 

 size, more than twice as wide as high, truncated, and distinctly concave below, 

 where it is as wide as at the summit ; margin so deeply notched at the sutures 

 as to present a distinctly trilobate appearance as seen from below ; columnar 

 facet rounded, about one-third as wide as the base, and provided with a mi- 

 nute central perforation. First radial pieces a little wider than long, two of 

 them heptagonal, and three hexagonal, widening upwards from the base to 



[Sept. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 387 



the lateral angles, and each having a very prominent, compressed, central 

 node extending obliquely outwards and downwards, from which one or two 

 moderately prominent ridges pass down upon the basal plates. Second radials 

 between one-half and two-thirds as large as the first, distinctly convex, or 

 each rising into a small node ; about one- third wider than high, two of them 

 pentagonal, and three hexagonal. Third radials as wide as the second, but 

 rather shorter, three of them pentagonal and two heptagonal, supporting on 

 each of their superior sloping sides a slightly smaller secondary radial piece, 

 each of which is surmounted by two brachial pieces ; making, apparently, 

 twenty arms in the entire range. 



The first interradial pieces are about as large as the second radials, and like 

 them provided with a central node ; they are as long as wide, regularly hexa- 

 gonal, and support on their superior sloping sides two smaller pieces in the 

 second range, and two or three in the third, which connect on each side with 

 the secondary radial, and first brachial pieces. The first anal plate is nearly 

 as large as the first radials, as long as wide, hexagonal, and supports in the 

 second range, two rather smaller pieces, one of which is hexagonal, and the 

 other heptagonal ; above these there are two others, which connect with the 

 third radials, and secondary radial pieces on each side, and are surmounted 

 by two or three small, irregular pieces, which are flanked on either side by 

 the brachial pieces, and connect with those of the summit above. 



The vault is composed of irregular, moderately convex pieces, of various 

 forms, and provided with a subcentral proboscis, which rises abruptly from its 

 surface. 



Height from the base to the summit of the vault, 0"66 inch ; do. to top of 

 third radials on the anterior side, 0-44. Breadth of base, 0"34 inch ; height 

 of do., 0*l-l inch ; breadth across the summit, between the interradial spaces 

 on opposite sides, 0"61 inch. 



Locality and position. Cedar Creek, Warren County, Illinois, Burlington 

 Limestone, of the subcarboniferous series. 



AcTisocRixus ARANEOLUS. — Body small, much depressed, stelliform, nearly 

 equally convex above and below the arms, with deeply excavated interradial 

 spaces ; composed of smooth or obscurely granulose, convex plates, which are 

 strongly angular below tlie arms ; sutures moderately distinct. Base small, 

 flat and subhexagonal ; columnar facet small, round, flat, and aboirt one-third 

 as wide as the base, pierced by a small central opening. First radial pieces on 

 a plane with the base, strongly convex, and angular in the middle, from which 

 a more or less angular ridge radiates to each of the sides, all slightly broader 

 than long, and hexagonal or heptagonal, the seventh angle at the middle of 

 the side connecting with the base being very obtuse. Second radial pieces 

 nearly as large as the first, wider than long, distinctly curved upwards at the 

 sides, and subangular along the middle ; presenting a hexagonal outline as 

 seen from below, but possessing an additional angle on each side, only seen in 

 a lateral view. Third radials of the same size as the second, from which they 

 extend horizontally outwards ; curving distinctly upwards on each side, and pen- 

 tagonal as seen from below, but each having one or two additional angles on 

 each side, where they connect with the superior arm pieces extending out from 

 the vault ; supporting on their superior, or more properly outer, sloping sides 

 apparently the first brachial pieces. 



The interradials are about two-thirds as large as the first radial pieces, a 

 little longer than wide, regularly hexagonal, and each support on their supe- 

 rior sloping sides two smaller pieces, which seem to belong more properly to 

 the vault, than the interradial series. 



The first anal plate is near two-thirds as large as the first radial, hexagonal, 

 and supports two smaller hexagonal pieces in the next range ; above these 

 there are four others in the third range, which connect with those of the vault 

 above, and with the superior arm pieces on each side. 



The summit is composed of small, somewhat irregular pieces, some of which 



I860.] 




388 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



are tumid, and a few tliat extend out over the third radials become subconical. 

 The proboscis is subcentral, of medium size, and rises abruptly from the much 

 depressed vault. (Other parts unknown.) 



Height, 0'22 inch ; breadth across the disk, between the interradial spaces 

 on opposite sides, 0-33 ; do., between the third radials ou opposite sides, 0*54 

 inch ; breadth of base, 0-14 inch. 



Localitif and position. Burlington, Iowa. Burlington Limestone, of the 

 subcarboniferous series. 



AcTiNOCEixus (Amphoracrikus*) scBTURBiXATrs. — Bodv rather under me- 

 dium size, turbinate, or obconical below the arms, and depressed convex 

 above : expanding regularly with straight sides from the column to the sum- 

 mit of the third radials, thence more abruptly to the arms ; composed of flat, 

 sm.ooth or merely granulose plates, which are connected by close-fitting sutures. 

 Interradial and anal spaces rather distinctly excavated between the groups of 

 arms. Base comparatively small, subpentagonal, about one-third as wide as 

 high, and not provided with a projecting rim ; columnar facet concave, small 

 or less than half the diameter of the base. First radial plates generally a little 

 wider than long, widening from tlie base to the lateral angles, two of them 

 heptagonal and three hexagonal. Second radials small, about twice as wide 

 as high, quadrangular, or rarely with one of the upper angles slightly trunca- 

 ted so as to produce a fifth angle. Third radial pieces a little larger than the 

 second, about twice as wide as high, hexagonal and heptagonal, and support- 

 ing on each superior sloping side in the anterior and two posterior rays, one 

 (occasionally two on one side of the latter) small secondary radial piece, which 

 gives rise to two brachial pieces ; while in each of the two antero-lateral rays, 

 the two small secondary radials are truncated above, and each supports a single 

 brachial piece ; making two arms to each of these rays, and four to each of the 

 others, or sixteen to the entire series. 



The first interradial plates are about two-thirds as large as the first radials, 

 nearly as long as wide, and six to nine-sided. On the superior sloping sides 

 of these, rest two smaller pieces, which partly support the secondary radials, 

 and are surmounted by two or three irregular pieces, which extend up between . 

 the groups of arms. The first anal piece is as large as the first radials, about 

 as long as wide, heptagonal, and surmounted by three smaller hexagonal 

 pieces in the second range, the middle one of which extends above the others. 

 Surmounting these there are also three pieces in the third range, the two late- 

 ral of which each supports an irregular piece above, while the middle one pro- 

 jects considerably beyond the others, and supports ou its sloping sides a series 

 of protuberant plates, which surround the small anal aperture. 



The summit is composed of irregular unequal plates, one of which over each 

 arm, and another near the middle, are larger than the others, and appear to 

 have been convex, or may even have been extended into short spines. The 

 anal aperture is lateral, being located a little above the elevation of the arm 

 openings. 



Height from base to summit, 0-59 inch ; breadth across the summit between 

 the groups of arms, 0*60 inch ; do., from the arm openings on opposite sides, 



* We think Austin's na.me Amphoracrinvs should be retained, at least in asubgeneric 

 sense. The lateral position of ihe anal and oral opening in this group, instead of having 

 it placed in or near the centre of the vault, and extended in the form of a more or less 

 elongated proboscis, must have been accompanied by some marked difference in the 

 structure of the softer parts of the animal. Indeed it seems to us that in the classification 

 of the Crinoidea, too much importance is often given to the number and arrangement of 

 the pieces forming the cup, to the neglect of the enseinhle of characters jircsentf d in the 

 structure of all parts of the animal. When we see whil widely di>siniilar species are some- 

 times brought together in the same groups, by the present classification, we cannot avoid 

 suspecting that it is. as now used, at least to some extent, analogous to the old artificial 

 Linneean classification in botany, and that it will some day give way to a more rational 

 method that may make material modifications in the genera as we now understand them. 



[Sept. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 389 



il-73 inch ; breadth of base, 0-27 inch ; height do., 0*07 ; height from base to 

 aual opening, 0'46 inch. 



LocaliUj and position. Same as last. 



Genus FORBSIOCRINUS.* 



FoRBSiocRiNFS ? NoRwooDi. — Body (as near as can be determined from a com- 

 pressed specimen) obconical, or enlarging regularly upwards from the col- 

 Timn ; composed of nearly smooth, rather thick, flattened, or more or less 

 arcuate plates, which are connected by linear sutures. Base small, and ap- 

 parently nearly hidden by the column. Subradial plates rather irregular in 

 form, four of them pentagonal, (one of the sides being very short) and one 

 on the anal side apparently heptagonal, with imequal sides. First radial 

 pieces nearly twice as wide as long, hexagonal and heptagonal, and a little 

 arcuate transversely. Second, third and fourth radials, (and in the anterior 

 ray the fifth, ) all short, nearly of the same size, hexagonal and aboiit twice 

 as wide as long. Fifth radial pieces (sixth in the anterior ray) of the same 

 size as the others, heptagonal, and supporting on their superior sloping sides 

 the secondary radials, only three ranges of which have been seen ; these lat- 

 ter alternate with interradials on each side, and show scarcely any tendency 

 to diverge. (Anal pieces unknown). 



Of the interradials, which are numerous, the first are nearly as large as 

 the subradials, as long as wide, hexagonal, and support three smaller pieces 

 in the second range. Above these four are seen in the next range, in one in- 

 terradial space, which is as far up as they can be counted in the specimen 

 examined, though it is evident from the breadth of the interradial spaces 

 that they must increase in number at the same rate for several ranges above. 



The column is round, coniparatively thick at its connection with the base, 

 from which it tapers towards the lower extremity. It is made up of extreme- 

 ly thin segments, which fit together by interlocking crenulations, formed 

 doubtless by distinct radiating striae on their upper and lower surfaces. Its 

 rentral cavity is subcircular, and nearly equal to one-third the diameter of 

 the column, at a distance of one inch below its connection with the base. 



Named in honor of Prof. J. G. Norwood, of the University of Missouri. 



Locality and position. Near Nauvoo, Illinois. Keokuk Limestone of sub- 

 oarboniferous series. 



FoRBSiocEiNus ? SEjiiovATus. — Body below the first bifurcation of the rays, 

 narrow semiovate, a little wider than long, expanding rapidlj' from tlie base 

 to the summit of the first radial pieces, above which it widens very gradually, 

 or beconres nearly cylindrical ; composed of moderately thick, smooth, or sub- 

 granulose plates, united by distinct sutures. Basal plates (as defined in this 

 srenus by Prof. Hallf) hidden by the column, if they exist. Subradials (of 

 Hall, basal of Koninck and LeHon), of moderate size, wider than long, three 

 of them on the anterior side pentagonal, the two upper sloping sides being 

 considerably longer than the lateral margins ; (the other two unknown). 

 First radial plates on the anterior side, heptagonal, wider than long, the supe- 

 rior truncated edge being longer than either of the others. Second radials 

 smaller than the first, hexagonal, and nearly twice as wide as long. Third 

 and fourth radials, a little smaller than the second, wider than long, and 

 quadrangular, or obscurely hexagonal, excepting in one ray where there are 

 only four pieces, the last of which is pentagonal, or obscurely heptagonal, 

 and supports the arms ; in each of the other two rays seen, there is a fifth 

 piece, which seems to be pentagonal, and supports the arms on its superior 

 sloping sides. (Anal and interradial pieces unknown.) 



* The two species we have here referred provisionally to the genus Forbsiocriiius, will 

 probably be found to possess the characters of Onychocrinus of Lyon and Casseday ; but 

 as we have not yet seen the basal plates of either, we do not feel quite warranted in 

 separating them from Forhsiocrinuf, 



tSee Iowa Report, p. 630. 



I860,] 




390 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



The arms above the first division on the fourth and fifth raiials, consist of 

 a single series of pieces, are rounded on the outside, and a little broader than 

 theirdiameter at right angles to their outer surface. One of them is seen to 

 bifurcate again on the sixth piece, and another on the eighth, beyond which 

 they are not known to divide again. Between each two of the arm pieces, as 

 well as the primary radial plates, the minute accessory patelloid pieces, 

 pointed out by Prof.' Hall in other species of this genus, are distinctly seen. 



The column is comparatively large, near the body, tapers a little down- 

 wards, and is composed, for a short distance below its connection with the 

 base, of extremely thin segments, which fit together by distinct interlocking 

 crenulations around the margins ; and a little farther down they gradually 

 become alternately thicker and thinner. A transverse section shows the 

 central cavity to be comparatively large, and distinctly pentapetalous as thus 

 seen. 



Height from the base to the top of the first radials 0-19 inch; do. from base 

 to top of fifth radials 0-41 inch; breadth at the summit of the first radials 0-35 

 inch; breadth of base 0-15 inch. 



Locality and position. Hardin County, Illinois. St. Louis Limestone of 

 subcarboniferous series. 



Geuus ZEACRINUS, Troost. 



Zeacrincs disccs. — Calyx below the summit of the first radial plates small, 

 suhdiscoidal, or depressed, basin-shaped, about three times as wide as high, 

 composed of smooth, very slightly convex plates, which are connected by mode- 

 rately distinct sutures. Base small, flat, and pentagonal ; columnar facet 

 equalling about two-thirds the diameter of the base, round, concave, and 

 marked by distinct radiating striae, perforated by a round, minute central 

 aperture. Subradial plates extending nearly horizontally outward from the 

 base, so as to form a distinct pentagonal, star-shaped disk, all curving a little 

 upwards towards their outer extremities ; three of them pentagonal, and two 

 hexagonal, in consequence of each having one angle slightly truncated by the 

 anal pieces. First radial plates about twice as large as the subradials, rather 

 more than half as long as wide, pentagonal, and all transversely truncate 

 above, the upper side being longer than either of the inferior sloping edg-es, 

 which are longer than the lateral margins. 



The first anal plate is elongate pentagonal, and wedged down between one 

 of the subradials, and the inferior sloping side of one of the first radial plates, 

 its lower extremity resting upon a very short side of another subradial. Of 

 the second anal pieces there are two, one of which stands upon the short trun- 

 cated superior side of one of the subradials, and is supported on its right in- 

 ferior sloping side by the first anal piece, and on the left by one of the first 

 radials ; the other stands upon the upper end of the first anal piece, being also 

 partly supported on the right by one of the first radial plates, and on the left 

 bv the other second anal piece. Both the second anal plates project about 

 half their length above the summit of the first radials. (Remaining parts un- 

 known.) 



Height to the summit of the first radial plates, 0-17 inch ; breadth 0-46 inch; 

 breadth of base 0-14 inch. 



Locality and position. Sangamon county, Illinois. Upper Coal Measures. 



Zeacrixcs Troostaxus. — Body rather small, depressed, basin-shaped below 

 the arms somewhat rounded and concave on the inner side, composed of ap- 

 parently smooth plates, which are connected by linear sutures. Base very 

 small, concave, and nearly or quite hidden by the column. Subradial plates 

 unequal in size, a little wider than long, excepting the one on the anal side, 

 four of them pentagonal, and one, which is longer than the others, heptagonal, 

 (counting the part of each connecting with the base, as one side.) First 

 radials nearly twice as wide as high, pentagonal, the superior horizontally 

 truncated edge being longer than either of the inferior sloping sides. Second 



[Sept. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 391 



radial plates slightly larger tlian the first, wider than long, pentagoaal, and 

 indistinctly hexagonal ; all longer on the inferior truncate side than eitlaer of 

 the others ; apparently four of them supporting on their superior sloping sides 

 the first divisions of the arms, while the one on the anterior side is truncated 

 above, and succeeded by three other very short, wide pieces, upon the last of 

 which the first divisions of the arms rest. 



Only two of the anal pieces are seen in the specimen examined; one of these, 

 which is small, occupies a position partly between the right superior sloping 

 side of the largest subanal piece, and the left inferior sloping side of one of 

 the first radials. The other connects wiih this on the left, and rests upon the 

 left upper sloping side of the large subradial piece, being apparently flanked 

 on its left side by one of the first radial pieces. 



The arms are nearly flat, or but slightly rounded on the outer side, and 

 bifurcate again, after the first division on the second radial pieces (in the 

 lateral and posterior rays), on the eighth, tenth, and eleventh pieces, and one 

 of the subdivisions again divides on the twelfth or fourteenth piece, beyond 

 which they are all simple. 



Named in honor of Dr. G. Troost, deceased, former State Geologist oi 

 Tennessee. 



LocalUy and position. Cedar creek, Warren county, Illinois. Burlington 

 Limestone, of subcarboniferous series. 



Ze.'^.ckincs planobrachiatcs. — Body small, depressed, basin-shaped, concave 

 below, rapidly expanding upwards, composed of apparently smooth plates, 

 connected by moderately distinct sutures. Base small, and placed within the 

 concavity of the under side; columnar facet very small. Subradial pieces 

 as wide as long, or a little wider, four pentagonal, and one on the anal side 

 hexagonal, having one angle slightly truncated. First radial pieces wider than 

 long, expanding from the base, pentagonal, the upper side being horizontally 

 truncated, and longer than either of the others. Second radial pieces nearlv 

 as large as the first, presenting a triangular outline (in the posterior and lateral 

 rays), the lateral angles being probably truncated ; supporting on their 

 superior lateral sloping sides the first divisions of the arms. First anal plate 

 narrow below, and wedged down obliquely between one of the subradials and 

 the inferior sloping side of a second radial ; supporting another piece on its 

 left superior sloping side, and apparently a smaller one on its narrow truncated 

 upper extremity. 



The arms are rather flattened on the outer side, and after the first division 

 on the second radial pieces (those seen), bifurcate again on the fifth and sixth 

 pieces. Beyond this they are entirely simple, and composed of a single serie.'? 

 of pieces, which are slightly wider than long, and alternately longer and 

 shorter on opposite sides. On the longer side they project a little above, for 

 the reception of the tentacles, which are composed of joints nearly twice as 

 long as wide. 



Height from base to summit of first radials, 0-13 inch ; breadth at the top of 

 first radials, 0-27 inch ; length of arms, from their division on the second radial 

 pieces, about 0-94 inch ; length to bifurcation on the sixth piece, 0-19 inch. 



Locality and position. Monroe county, Illinois. Keokuk Limestone of lower 

 carboniferous series. 



Genus CYATHOCRINUS Miller. 



Cyathocrinds Saffordi. — Body subglobose, wider than high, the broadest 

 part being below the middle, unsymmetrical, the anal side being longest, and 

 most gibbous ; composed of thin, smooth plates, joined by slightly raised, 

 linear sutures. Base of moderate size, irregularly pentagonal, flat, or so slightly 

 convex as to be scarcely seen in a lateral view, consisting of unequal, sub- 

 hexagonal plates, the lateral and outer margins of which are nearly equal, 

 while the side next the column is so short as to appear to terminate in an 



I860.] 




892 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



angle ; columnar facet very small, and slightly projecting. Subradial plate° 

 rather large, wider than high, four of them hexagonal (the inferior angle being 

 very obtuse or nearly obsolete), and one on the anal side, which is considerably 

 larger than the others, irregularly heptagonal. First radial plates about the 

 size of the subradials, somewhat unequal, hexagonal, generally wider than 

 long, and tapering upward from the inferior lateral angles, bordered above by 

 a slender, slightly refiexed rim ; sinus in the superior edge, for the reception 

 of the second radial piece, small. Anal plate small, about as wide as high, 

 quadrangular, and, like the first radials, provided with a marginal rim ; not pro- 

 jecting above the radial plates on each side of it. 



Height to summit of first ladials, 0-44 inch ; greatest breadth, 0-67 inch ; 

 breadtL of base, 0-45 inch. 



Dedicated to Prof. Saflford, State Geologist of Tennessee. 



Locality and position. White's creek, Tennessee. Keokuk Limestone. 



Cyathocrinds ? Sangamonensis. — Body beneath the summit of the first radial 

 pieces serai-ovate, composed of thick, moderately convex, smooth plates, which 

 are joined by strongly defined punctured sutures. Base pentagonal, equalling 

 about half the breadth of the body, convex, and formed of equal pentagonal 

 pieces, which are a little wider than long; columnar facet round, deep, and 

 about one-third as wide as the base. Subradial pieces large, as wide as long ; 

 three of them hexagonal, with their superior sloping sides slightly longer than 

 their lateral margins, which are longer than the basal edges ; and the other 

 two heptagonal, with unequal sides. First radials wider and shorter than the 

 dubradial "pieces, about twice as wide as high, pentagonal, and of nearly equal 

 size and form ; their upper sides being horizontally truncate, straight or slightly 

 coucave, and considerably longer than either of the basal sides, which are 

 much longer than the vertical lateral edges. 



The anal plate is comparatively small, longer than wide, and projects some- 

 what above the summit of the first radials. It seems to be irregularly hepta- 

 gonal or octagonal, but the exact form of its upper extremity is not distinctly 

 seen in our specimen. Its base rests upon the short upper truncated extremity 

 of one of the irregular heptagonal subradial plates, while on either side it con- 

 nects with the first radials, and is supported on its right inferior sloping mar- 

 gin by a large oblong quadrangular subanal piece. This subanal plate is 

 larger than the anal piece, and rests upon the superior sloping edges of the two 

 heptagonal subradials, while its upper oblique side supports one of the inferior 

 sloping sides of the first radial plates, on the right of the first anal piece. 

 Arms, summit, and column unknown. 



Height from the base to top of first radial pieces, 0-94 inch ; breadth about 

 1-25 inches ; diameter of columnar facet, 0-24 inch ; breadth of base, 0-64 inch ; 

 heio'ht and breadth of subradials, 0.60 inch ; height of first radials, 0'36 to 

 0-40 inch ; breadth of do. about 0-68 inch. 



Locality and 2:>osiiion. Sugar creek, Sangamon county, Illinois. Upper Coal 

 Measures. 



Cyathocrinus? crassus. — Body below the summit of the first radial plates 

 depressed, or basin-shaped, about twice as wide as high, rounded or subtrun- 

 cate below, and composed of smooth, strong, thick, slightly convex plates, 

 which are joined by well defined, punctate sutures. Base very small, or about 

 one-fourth the breadth of the body, pentagonal, concave, and apparently nearly 

 hidden by the column. Subradial plates a little wider than high, extending at 

 first nearly horizontally outwards from the base, after which they curve 

 obliquely upwards, four of them hexagonal, and one on the anal side hepta- 

 gonal; the angle at the middle of the base of each being but slightly salient. 

 First radial plates larger than the subradials, nearly twice as wide as high, 

 truncated horizontally, and nearly or quite straight on the upper side, which 

 is longer than the inferior sloping edges ; four of them pentagonal, and one on 

 the left of the anal piece hexagonal. 



[Sept. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 393 



The anal piece is small, apparently pentagonal, and projects distinctly above 

 the summit of the first radials, with which it connects on each side, "instead 

 of resting directly upon the upper side of one of the subradials, it is supported 

 on the upper slightly oblique truncated extremity of a very large pentagonal 

 subanal piece, which rests upon the upper sloping sides of two subradial 

 pieces, and supports the inferior sloping edge of a first radial plate on each of 

 its oblique lateral margins. 



Height from the base to the top of the first radial pieces, 045 inch ; breadth. 

 0-90 inch ; breadth of base, 0-23 inch ; length of subradials, 0-36 inch ; breadth 

 of do. from 0-36 to 0-40 inch ; length of first radials, from 28 to 030 inch ; 

 breadth of do. from 0-35 to 0-49 inch. 



This, and the last species, together with such forms of C. spuriovs, C. inter- 

 tnedius, and C? pentalobus, RaW, should probably form a subgenus, bearing 

 close relations both to Poteriocrinus and Cyathoaimis. 



Locality and position. Ovan, Fulton county, Illinois. Lower Coal Measures. 



Cyathocrincs scitulus.— Body below the summit of the first radial plates 

 basin-shaped, about twice as wide as high, and truncated at the base, from 

 which it expands rapidly upward ; composed of thick, strong, subgranular 

 plates, which are very convex in the middle, and deeply excavated at the 

 corners ; sutures moderately distinct. Base small, flat or truncate, on a plane 

 with the prominent portion of the subradials, so as not to be seen in a side 

 view ; columnar facet a little concave, occupying about two-thirds the area of 

 the base, and perforated by a central opening equal to one-third its own 

 diameter. Subradial pieces about as wide as long, directed obliquely outward 

 and upward from the base ; four of them pentagonal and one hexagonal, there 

 being no visible angle at the middle of the under side in any of them. First 

 radials much larger than the subradial pieces, about twice as wide as high, 

 unequal, two on the anal side being shorter than the others ; all pentagonal, 

 distinctly truncate, and a little concave above, the upper side being much 

 longer tlian either of the others ; superior angles also slightly truncated for the 

 reception of small interradials. Anal piece small, subquadrangular, widening 

 from the base upwards, and projecting above the first radials. 



The very prominent central portions of the subradial pieces are truncated 

 below, on a plane with the base, and project out horizontally from it in such 

 a manner as to form with the base a distinct five-rayed star, as seen from 

 below. From near the middle of each subradial, there is a rather obscure 

 angular ridge extending .^.long each side of its prominent central portion to the 

 basal pieces, and another connecting with a similar ridge near the edge of each 

 first radial plate above. From the obliqueness of the upper truncated side of 

 the first radial pieces, it is manifest that the other radials must have extended 

 very obliquely outward from them. 



Height to summit of first radials, 0-32 inch ; breadth 0*66 inch ; breadth of 

 base, 0-21 inch ; length of subradials, 0-21 inch ; length of largest first radial 

 pieces, 0-20 inch ; breadth of do. 0-36. 



Locality and position. Burlington, Iowa. Burlington Limestone of subcar- 

 boniferous series. 



Cyathocrinds angulatus. — Body of medium size, somewhat basin-shaped 

 below the arms, wider than high, truncated below, and rapidly expanding 

 upwards; composed of very thick, nearly smooth, tumid, angular plates, which 

 are united by distinct sutures. Base small, and apparently projecting a little 

 below the base of the subradials. Subradial plates as wide as high, four of 

 them pentagonal, and one on the anal side hexagonal, there being no visible 

 angle in the middle of any of them below. First radials larger than the sub- 

 radial pieces, about twice as wide as long, pentagonal, or subheptagonal, the 

 upper angles being sometimes slightly truncated ; all broadly truncate, and a 

 little concave above. Second radial pieces extremely short, but differing 



I860.] 27 




394 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



somewhat in length. Third radials larger than the first, considerably wider 

 than long, unequal, and presenting a triangular outline, the under side being 

 longer than either of the others: supporting on their superior sloping sides 

 the first divisions of the arms. Anal piece smaller than the subradials, a little 

 narrower below than above, apparently pentagonal, though the upper side is 

 not distinctly visible in the specimen described ; extending partly above the 

 summit of the first radial plates. 



The arms are large, rounded, apparently simple, after the division on the 

 third radial piece, and composed of a single series of pieces, which are wider 

 than long, and alternately a little longer and shorter on the opposite sides. 



The plates below the second radial series are remarkable for their thickness, 

 and tumid, angular character, though the angles are not acute. On the sub- 

 radials two of these angles or ridges pass from the middle to the base, nearly 

 parallel to each other, and one to each of the first radial pieces above. On the 

 first radials there are two of these angles, both of which pass from above 

 obliquely to the base, where they connect with those on the subradial pieceS; 

 giving to each first radial a bilobate appearance. 



Locality and position. Xauvoo, Illinois. Keokuk Limestone of lower car- 

 boniferous series. 



Genus POTERIOCRINUS, Miller. 



PoTEBiocRiNUS (ScAPHiocRixus) DECADACTTLCS. — Body rather small, broad, 

 obeonical below the arms, expanding rapidly from the base ; plates somewhat 

 thick, nearly smooth, not convex, and connected by moderately distinct 

 sutures. Base small, convex, or about half as high as wide, pentagonal in out- 

 line as seen from below, the upper angles of the plates being rather salient. 

 Subradial plates somewhat unequal, a little wider than long, four of them 

 hexagonal, and one on the anal side heptagonal ; the upper sloping sides in all 

 longer than those beneath, which are longer than the lateral margins. First 

 radial plates about twice as long as the smaller of the subradials, four of them 

 pentagonal, and one hexagonal, all wider than long, and wider on the upper 

 horizontally truncate side than either of the others. Second radials about the 

 size of the first, pentagonal, a little wider than high, truncated below, and pro- 

 vided with a salient angle in the middle above ; supporting the arms on their 

 superior sloping sides, which are longer than the lateral margins. 



The first anal plate is large, or equalling some of the subradials in size. It 

 is irregularly hexagonal in form, and rests between the superior sloping sides 

 of two of the subradials, supporting on its right (longest) sloping side an in- 

 ferior edge of one of the first radial pieces, and connecting on the left 

 by a short vertical edge, with another first radial plate. On its upper sides il 

 supports two smaller pieces in the second range, the exact form of which can- 

 not be made out in the specimen examined. 



The arms are long, large, and robust, subcylindrical, rather unequal, and 

 appear to be all simple from their division on the second radial piece. They 

 are entirely composed of a single series of pieces, a few of the first of which 

 are longer than the others, and alternately longer and shorter on opposite 

 sides ; further up they are more regular, and shorter than wide. The 

 column is rather small, or less than the diameter of the largest arms; it is 

 round, and composed of thin, slightly unequal segments near the body. Its 

 , central cavity is small, and presents a regular pentapetalous section. 



Height of body from base to the summit of second radials, 0-48 inch; breadth 

 about 0-47 ; length of arms, apparently not less than 2-50 inches ; breadth of 

 do. from 0-11 inch to 0-16 inch. 



Locality and position. Appanoose, Hancock county, Illinois. Keokuk Lime- 

 stone, of subcarboniferous series. 



PoTERiocRiNUsSwALLovi. — Bodv of medium size, obeonical, or tapering regu- 

 larly from above to its connection with the column ; composed of smooth, 



[Sept. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 395 



nearly flat plates, ■which are connected by moderately distinct sutures. Base 

 basin-shaped, truncate below, and expanding gradually upward, about half as 

 high as wide, and composed of nearly equal pentagonal pieces ; columnar facet 

 large, concave, without a projecting marginal rim, pierced by a peutapetalous 

 central opening, less than one-third the diameter of the column. Subradial 

 plates unequal, some of them as long as wide, and others wider than long, 

 three hexagonal, and two of the larger ones on the anal side, heptagonal, 

 First radials rather smaller than the subradial pieces, all wider than high, 

 pentagonal, somewhat unequal, and horizontally truncate above, the upper 

 side being longer than either of the inferior sloping sides, which are longer 

 than the lateral margins. Second radial pieces very short, apparently sub- 

 quadrangular. Third radials short, or about three times as wide as high, pen- 

 tagonal, and supporting on their superior sloping sides the main divisions of 

 the arms. 



The first anal piece is pentagonal, and rests between the two upper sloping 

 sides of two subradials. On the right it supports one inferior sloping edge of 

 a first radial plate, and connects with another anal plate on the left, which 

 rests on the superior truncated end of one of the subradials. Both of these 

 anal pieces are truncated above, and surmounted by two others, the former of 

 whicii cannot be made out in the specimen described. 



The arms are very long, robust, rounded, and after the first division on the 

 third radial piece, bifurcate again on the eighth, ninth, and eleventh pieces, 

 in three of the arms examined, above which they seem to be simple, and are 

 each composed of a single series of pieces. The column is composed, near the 

 body, of firmly anchylosed pieces, the sutures of which are not visible 0-20 inch 

 below its connection with the base. Its central cavity presents, in a transverse 

 section, the same peutapetalous form as the perforation of the base. 



Length from base to summit of third radial plates, 0-79 inch ; breadth 

 about 062 inch; breadth of base, 0-38 inch ; height of do. 0-19 inch ; length of 

 arms, about 3-50 inches. 



Named in honor of Prof. G. C. Swallow. State Geologist of Missouri. 



Locality and position. Burlington, Iowa. Burlington Limestone of the sub- 

 carboniferous series. 



ECHINOIDEA. 



Genus ARCH^OCIDARIS, McCoy. 



Arch;eocidaris jujcroxatus. — The only specimens of this species yet obtained, 

 consist of detached primary spines, and a few of the interambulaci-al plates. 

 The plates are hexagonal, wider than long, and apparently nearly smooth, or 

 only ornamented by a single row of small tubercles around the margin. Cen- 

 tral tubercle prominent, and nearly equalling one-third the greater diameter 

 of the plate, most elevated in the middle, which has a small central pit, and 

 is separated from its surrounding lower margin by a distinct annular groove. 



Primary spines long, tapering, a little compressed, or nearly round, and 

 very slightly curved above the articulating extremity, near which they swell 

 out so as to form a distinct, smooth, somewhat angular ring ; from this to the 

 articulating end, they contract abruptly ; pointed at the upper extremity, and 

 armed by rather strong, sharp, but short lateral spinules, which are directed 

 obliquely outwards and upwards. Even under a magnifier the entire surface 

 generally appears to be smooth, but when a well preserved specimen is ex- 

 amined with a good lens, in a favorable light, it is seen to be marked by ex- 

 tremely fine, obscure, closely arranged, longitudinal stride. The articulating 

 end is distinctly perforated, and transverse sections show the central cavity 

 to be comparatively large for some distance above. 



Length of one of the interarabulacral plates, 0-50 inch ; breadth of do. 0-3.5 

 inch. Length of primary spine, 2-62 inches ; greatest diameter of same above 



I860.] 




396 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADE3IY OF 



tlie head, 0'17 inch ; diameter of head, 0'22 inch : length of lateral spimiles, 

 0-10 inch. 



Locality and position. Liberty, Randolph county, Illinois. Upper bed of 

 Chester Limestone. Lower carboniferous series. 



Genus'PALuECHINUS, McCoy, 



PALiECHiNCS BcRLisGTONExsis. — The Only specimen of this species we have 

 yet seen is too imperfect to show the exact form of the entire fossil, though 

 it seems to have been nearly spherical. It has four to five ranges of interam- 

 bulacral plates near the middle of each area, and they decrease in number to 

 three, two, and apparently at last to one at each extremity. The inner pieces 

 are wider than long, and regularly hexagonal, excepting near the upper and 

 lower extremities of the spaces, where they are about as long as wide, and 

 occasionally pentagonal ; those of the outer ranges are all pentagonal, their 

 outer margins being truncate, and crenulated for the reception of the small 

 ambulacral pieces. 



The ambulacra are narrow, or about as wide as the first range of interam- 

 bulacral plates on either side, slightly convex along the middle, and a little 

 concave at the margins. They are composed of a double alternating series of 

 very small pieces, which are two or three times as wide as long ; about five to 

 seven of them equalling the height of each contiguous interambulacral 

 plate. They are each pierced by two small rounded pores near the outer 

 margin, and all of nearly uniform size towards the extremities of the 

 ambulacral areas, but in the central or widest part they become alternately 

 wider at the inner and outer extremities ; those having their narrower end 

 outwards often wedging out to a point between the others before reaching the 

 margin of the ambulacral space. 



The surface of all the plates is ornamented by numerous regularly arranged 

 granules, two of which occupy the inner half of each ambulacral piece. 



As near as can be determined from our specimen, it must have been, when 

 entire, not less than 2'25 inches in length, and about 2 inches in breadth. 

 The largest interambulacral plates are 0*19 inch wide, and 0'17 inch in height ; 

 breadth of widest part of ambulacra. 



Localiti/ and position. Burlington, Iowa. Burlington Limestone of the lower 

 carboniferous series. 



Genus MELONITES, Owen and Norwood, 



All the published figures of Me.lonites multipora, the type, and hitherto the 

 only known species of this genus, give a very incorrect idea of the form and 

 arrangement of its ambulacral pieces and pores. The three lateral series of 

 these pieces on each side of the two middle ranges, instead of being as repre- 

 sented, composed two of quadrangular, and one of pentagonal pieces, placed 

 in oblique transverse rows, and mounted one upon another so as to form at 

 the same time regular longitudinal ranges, are made up of irregular alter- 

 nating unequal pieces of various forms. They are also wedged in between 

 each other in such manner, and so interrupted by small intercalated pieces, 

 not properly belonging to either range, that it becomes very difficult to deter- 

 mine whether we should count them as four or as five rows, on each side of the 

 mesial suture ; or, in other words, as eight or ten rows to each ambulacrum. 

 The same irregularity also occurs in the pores, which are round, in closely 

 approximated pairs, and not arranged in regular longitudinal or transverse 

 lines, but so as to show a tendency to assume a quincunx arrangement. 



Should the genus oi Polypi, to which Lamarck first applied the name 3Ielonites, 

 be retained, it will become necessary to give another name to the group now 

 under consideration, in which case we would propose to call it Meloncchinus. 

 Although related to Palachinus of McCoy, this genus is clearly separated by 

 the numb er and arrangement of its ambulacral pieces and pores, as well as by 



[Sept. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 397 



its more numerous and greatly thicker interambulacral plates. The much 

 broader and more deeply sulcated ambulacral areas of the two species now 

 known, also give them a peculiar melon-like form, quite unlike any of the 

 known species of Palcechinus. 



Melo.mtes Dan^. — Test large, subglohose, apparently slightly longer than 

 wide. Interambulacral areas lance-oval in form, convex, and occupied bj"^ 

 eight ranges of plates near the middle, where all, excepting those of the two 

 outer ranges are a little wider than high, and regularly hexagonal ; towards 

 the upper and lower extremities of these spaces, the plates diminish in size 

 and numbers, and become proportionally higher, a few of them assuming a 

 pentagonal, or even a rhombic quadrangular outline. Those of the two lateral 

 ranges all subpentagonal, their outer margins being somewhat rounded, 

 and more or less indented for the reception of the outer extremities of the 

 small ambulacral pieces. Plates apparently all of uniform thickness, the 

 larger ones being about as thick as high, while the thickness of the smaller 

 grea'ly exceeds their diameter in any other direction. Ambulacral areas 

 about half as wide as the interambulacral spaces, convex in the midtlle, and 

 broadly, as well as rather deeply sulcate along each side. Ambulacral pieces 

 in four ranges, with some irregular intercalated smaller pieces between ; those 

 of the different ranges alternating, and all wider than high, as well as quite 

 irregular in form and size. Those composing the two inner ranges generally 

 four or five times as wide as high, but varying considerably in height. Usually 

 about four to five of the outer ranges, (which are of the same height, but only 

 half as wide as the inner,) equal the height of each of the contiguous lateral 

 interambulacral plates. 



The intercalated pieces start from the zigzag suture between the two outer 

 ranges of ambulacral pieces, and extend outward and inward between them, 

 but wedge out, or terminate abruptly, before reaching the outer margins, 

 or the middle of the ambulacral areas. The pores are in pairs, two to each 

 piece, and arranged in four double rows, two on each side of the mesial 

 ridge or convexity of each ambulacrum. The entire surface is ornamented 

 by regularly disposed granules, about twenty to thirty-five of which may be 

 counted on each of the larger interambulacral plates, and as many, in propor- 

 tion to size, on each of the smaller ones, including the ambulacral pieces. 



Height, 4 inches ; breadth, about 3"80 inches ; breadth of one of the largest 

 interambulacral plates, 0"2rl; inch; height of do. 0"18 incii ; thickening, 0-17 

 inch. 



This species attains about the same size as, andvery closely resembles, Melo- 

 nites multipora of Owen and Norwood, but may be at once distinguished by 

 having only four rows of ambulacral pieces, and four double ranges of jjores, 

 while M. vmltipora has uniformly double this number, both of pieces, and of 

 ranges of pores. 



We take great pleasure in dedicating this noble echinoid to Prof. James D. 

 Dana, of New Haven, Connecticut, one of the most profoundly learned of 

 living savans. 



Localiti) and position. Jersey county, near Warsaw, Illinois. Keokuk 

 division of the subcarboniferous series. 



Observations upon tke Form of the Occiput in the various Races of Men. 



BY J. AITKEN MEIGS, M. D. 



In 1857, the collection of Human Crania in the Museum of the Academy of 

 Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, contained 1,045 specimens of many different 

 races of men. Since that time, by presentation, deposit and exchange, this total 

 has been increased to 1,125. Eighty additions, therefore, have been made 

 during the past three years. Of this number 27 are North American Indians ; 



I860.] 




3^8 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



2 Araucanians ; 25 Peruvians ; 4 Chinese ; 9 Sandwich Islanders ; 2 Mar- 

 quesans ; 1 Feejee ; 2 Swedes; 2 Thugs; 1 Hindoo; 1 Tchuktchi; 1 Ice- 

 lander ; 1 Cossack and 2 Negroes. 



The donors and depositors of these crania are Drs. W. S. W. Euschenberger, 

 Thomas J. Turner, J. E. Semple, and H. B. Trist, of the United States Navy ; 

 Drs. E. H. Abaddie and .J. Letterman, of the United States Army; Prof. Wm. 

 A. Hammond, Drs. J Dickson Bruns, J. H. Slack, J. Clifford Parker, J. B. S. 

 Jackson, and Messrs. George Gibbs, John Biddle, N. P. Buckley, Charles C. 

 Abbott, and the writer of this article. 



Forty-six of these crania were procured — some of them with considerable 

 difficulty — by my enterprising friend and former school-mate. Passed Assistant 

 Surgeon Thomas J. Turner, chiefly during his cruise in the Pacific. It affords 

 me much pleasure to acknowledge, thus publicly, the value of his indefatiga- 

 ble and intelligent efforts to promote the interests of craniograpliic science. 

 The thanks of those interested in this important branch of knowledge are also 

 due to the gentlemen whose names are mentioned above. 



Chiefly upon this collection, thus increased in the number and ethnical 

 variety of its specimens, are based the following observations, which, in their 

 general scope and tendency, may be regarded as a continuation of the leading 

 inquiry started in my paper on the Jerusalem skull, which was published in 

 the Proceedings of the Academy for September, 1859. 



That inquiry, it may be remembered, was to ascertain whether from the 

 form of the entire skull, or of some characteristic part of it, the race as well 

 as the type to which any particular cranium belonged, could be definitely 

 determined. As the basis of this inquiry, a fragmentary head was selected, 

 having a very peculiar occipital conformation, but whose ethnical origin was 

 wholly unknown. This cranium was subjected to a severe critical analysis 

 and comparison with other heads in the collection. In the course of this 

 comparison, whose leading results have already been communicated to the 

 Academy, the following observations were made, and are now brought forward 

 as another contribution to the sum of recorded human knowledge, and an 

 additional step towards the emancipation of Ethnology from the dogmatism 

 and conjectural assertion with which a host of pseudo-scientific writers have 

 so industriously surrounded it, in their ill-advised attempts to solve definitely 

 certain great questions concerning the origin and primitive affiliations of the 

 races of men. 



In the very front rank of ethnological inquiry stands Craniograpliy. As 

 the epitome, not of the skeleton merely, but also of the entire physical man, 

 the cranium, by some of the best observers and profoundest thinkers of 

 modern tim^s, has justly been regarded as capable of furnishing valuable 

 information concerning the zoological relations of the different races of men. 

 This conviction animates the " Cephalogenesis " of Spix, the "Decades 

 Craniorum " of Blumenbach, the numerous and important craniological 

 papers of Retzius, the "Tabulae Craniorum " of Sandifort, the "Crania 

 Americana" and "Crania >3!]gyptiaca " of Morton, the "Atlas der Cranio- 

 scopie " of Canis, the "Crania Britanuica " of Davis and Thurnam, the 

 " Organischen Formenlehre " of Lucse, the " Schsedel, Hirn und Seele des 

 Menschen und der Thiere " of Huschke, the "Crania Selecta " of K. E. Von 

 Baer, and most recently of all the "Catalogus Craniorum Diversarum 

 Gentium" of Prof. J. Van der Hoeven, of Leyden, well known as an able 

 observer and a zealous cultivator of the natural history of man. 



It must be confessed, however, that owing to the limited number of speci- 

 mens in the various cranial collections, and the genealogical uncertainty 

 which surrounds many of those which have been figured and described by 

 different observers, craniography can, as yet, boast of but few established 

 principles. The cranial descriptions published by Blumenbach and many of 

 his successors are entirely too brief and vague for the purposes of that exact 



[Sept. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 399 



and minute comparison, -whicli alone can lead to any really important results. 

 Before the deeply interesting and complicated questions of ethnology can 

 receive much light from craniography, the latter must furnish extensive com- 

 parisons of the heads of different races of men, not in respect to their general 

 form only, but with reference to the exact conformation and minute anatomical 

 peculiarities of each of the several natural regions of the skull — the crown, 

 base, occiput, facial and lateral aspects. Convinced of the truthfulness of 

 this statement, I have attempted, in the following pages, a comparison of the 

 heads in the Morton collection, with reference to their occipital peculiarities 

 only, hoping, at some future time, as leisure permits, to institute, in like 

 manner, a comparison of these heads with regard to their coronal, basal, 

 facial and lateral characters successively. 



A peculiar flattening of the upper or parietal portion of the occipital re- 

 gion characterizes the heads of Norwegians (1260),* Swedish peasants (117, 

 1247, 1249, 1258, 1486 to 1488), Finland, SOdermannland, Turannic and 

 Cimbric Swedes (1545 to 1549, 121, 1532, 1550, 1362), Ostrogoths (1255), 

 and Swedish Finns (1542 to 1544). From about the middle of the sagittal 

 suture the parietal bones slope or shelve away posteriorly, so as to form an 

 inclined plane, which modifies or interrupts the regular ovoidal form of the 

 head, and terminates, in most instances, at the lambdoidal suture, or a little 

 below it, on the superior portion of the os occipitis.f The occipital protuber- 

 ance in all these crania is very well marked ; and in some, apparently ex- 

 aggerated by the peculiarity above mentioned. In the two "ancient Cimbric " 

 skulls (1532, 1550), in a very old Cimbrian head (1362), from the Danish 

 island of Moen, in the Baltic, and in the crania of an Ostrogoth (1255), and 

 a Swedish woman of the 13th century (1249), the knob-like protubei'ance of 

 the occiput gives to the calvaria a peculiarly elongated and kumbe-kephalic 

 or boat-shaped form. This occipital prominence is also seen in a fragmentary 

 Burgundian head (1533), from a tomb near Lansanne, in Switzerland, but is 

 not so well marked. 



From the investigations of Prof. Nilsson, it would a^^pear that the aborigines 

 of Scandinavia, had "short heads, with broad and flattened occiputs," — 

 features exhibited by other ancient people, such as the Lapps and Samoiedes, 

 the Iberians or Basques of the Pyrenees, and the mysterious Pelasgi, whose 

 traces are still found in Greece. The short-headed race of Scandinavia appears 

 to have been followed by another race of men, whose skulls were charac- 

 terized by prominent and narrow occiputs. J The hind-head of a large 

 Danish cranium, figured by Nilsson, § after Eschricht, of Copenhagen, is full 

 and rounded. 



In the skulls of "true Finns" (1534 to 1541, 1252, 1259), the occiput 

 is neither prominent nor depressed, but flatly round, and in keeping, there- 

 fore, with the general globularity of the head. The Finnic cranial type 

 appears to be preserved in its greatest purity among the primitive inhabitants 

 of Esthonia. Dr. Hueck, in describing the head of an Esthonian, says, that 



* The numbers inclosed in brackets are those by which the skulls are designated in 

 my Catalogue of Human Crania in the collection of the Academy of Natural Sciences 

 of Philadelphia. 



t This conformation also pertains to the Greenland, Scandinavian and Tretin skulls, 

 figured in Tables 3, 4 and 6, of Cams' Atlas tier Cranioscopip, Heft 1. I find it also more 

 or less strongly pronouncea in the crania represented in Tables 3, 4, 8 and 9, {iSch'ddelv 

 abnormer Form), and 1, 3, 6, 9, 10 and 11, [Schadeln he\ann1er Peisonen) of the Archi- 

 teclitr des Menschensch'ddtls , of Dr. Luce. 



+ Report of the British Association for the Advancement of Science, for 1847, p. 31. 



? Skandinaviska Nordens Urinvanare. eti fiirsok i comparativa Eihnographien af S. 

 Nilsson, Phil. Dr. etc., Chiistianstad, 1838, i. Hdfiel, plate D, fig. 10. 



18G0.] 




400 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



the occiput, in the region of the superior linea semicircularis, is strongly- 

 arched, both posteriorly ami towards the sides.* 



The well-characterized Norwegian and Swedish skulls in the Museum of 

 the Academy have the basal portion of the occipital region quite flat, and 

 parallel with the horizon, when the head rests squarely upon the lower jaw. 

 The lower part of the occiput in the German heads is more prominent than 

 in the Finns, less than in the Swedes, and still less than in the Cimbri : 

 while the upper part is less flat than in the Swedes. The occipital region of 

 the German skull, in point of conformation, occupies a place intermediate 

 between that of the Swedes and Finns. 



In the skull of a Dutchman ('i3i), born in Utrecht, the posterior or occi- 

 pital region is flat and broad, and presents to the eye a somewhat pentagonal 

 outline. 



The Anglo-Saxon and Anglo-American crania, though, like the Swedes, 

 longer than the Germanic and Finnic skiills, have nearly the same rounded 

 occiput as these latter. The parietalia of an Anglo-Saxon skull, figured in 

 the first Decade of Crania Britannica, incline downwards and backwards 

 towards the occiput, as in the Norwegian cast referred to above. The occi- 

 pital bone is full and rounded, and has a considerable projection posteriorly. 



Most of the skulls in the collection, marked "Celtic Irish," exhibit the 

 same downward and backward inclination of the upper or parietal portion of 

 the occipital region as described above. The occiput of No. 18 has the same 

 boat-like sliape as that of the Ostrogoth (12-55) and the Cimbri (1532, &c). 

 The occipital region of No. 42 diS"ers from that of the preceding in being a 

 little fuller. The same shelving of the upper occipital region is also present 

 in Nos. 52 and 1186. It is also exhibited, though less markedly, in No. 

 1356, and still less in No. 985 ; while in No. 986, the occipital type approxi- 

 mates the Swedish form, being rounder, fuller, less inclined, and having the 

 jjrotuberance not so prominent. In several respects these skulls correspond 

 with those found in the cromlechs or sepulchral mounds of Ireland, and 

 described by Mr. Wilde as possessing the projecting occiput, which charac- 

 terizes the dolicho-kephalic crania, found in aucient Danish tumuli. It would 

 thus seem that the earliest inhabitants of Ireland, like those of Scandinavia, 

 had short heads and flattened occiputs, while the people who succeeded 

 them were remarkable for long, oval heads and prominent occiputs. Wilson 

 and Bateman, on the contrary, have concluded, from their investigations, that 

 the primitive people of Scotland and England possessed long, kumbe-kephalic 

 or boat-shaped heads, peculiarly characterized by a narrow prolongation of 

 the occiput in the region of the cerebellum. Prof. D. Wilson is inclined to 

 regard this peculiar form of tlie hind head as diagnostic of the primitive 

 Caledonians. I find it equally well pronounced, however, in two Egyptian 

 skulls (Nos. 837, 838), from the Pyramid of Five Steps, at Saccara. 



In an ancient Briton, of the brachy-kephalic type, figured in Crania 

 Britannica, the "occipital bone is somewhat full above the protuberance, 

 which, itself, is strongly marked. " In another ancient Briton, belonging to the 

 dolicho-kephalic cla«s, and represented and described in the same work, the 

 occiput is full, prominent and rounded, and presents a strongly-marked 

 transverse ridge. 



Three oblong skulls from the catacombs of Paris (661, 662 and 663), have 

 the occiput flattened almost vertically. In No. 663, the upper part of the os 

 occipitis presents a lozenge-shaped prominence, which, though flattened itself, 

 somewhat destroys or interrupts the general perpendicularitj^of the back part 

 of the head. No. 664, also from the catacombs, is a brachy-kephalic head, with 

 a markedly perijendicular and wall-like flatness of the occiput. This head, I 

 am inclined to think, is that of a Basque or Iberian of the Pyrenees. 



There are no Spanish skulls in the Academy's collection. The private 



'De Craniis Estonum Commentatio Anthropologica, etc., p. 7. 



[Sept. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 401 



collection of Prof. Van der Hoeven contains several from Grenada, Catalonia, 

 &c. Of one of these, No. 31, he writes in his catalogue,* "Occipitis pars 

 superior gibba," and of another. No. 32, " os occipitis supra gibbum." In 

 describing a Lusitanian skull, he says, "Occiput gibbum; lineae semicircn- 

 lares et protuberantia occipitalis vix distincta. " 



In the asymmetrical Sclavonian skull fromOlmutz in Moravia (1251), and in 

 No. 1253, a Sclave from Morlack in Dalmatia, the occiput is flatly globular or 

 truncated. If classified according to its form, No. 1251 might be placed between 

 the Turkish and Kalmuck types. 



In a Polish skull in Prof. Van der Hoeven's collection, the occipital region 

 is prominent at the apex of the lambdoidal suture. The occiput of another 

 Poland skull is broad and gibbous in the upper portion. 



In the Turkish skull figured by Blumeubach (table 2) the external 

 occipital protuberance is but little developed, so that there seems to be no 

 occipiit. Two Turkish skulls obtained from a burial ground at Scutari, and 

 described by Dr. Williamson,! have a rounded occiput. 



In a Cossack skull (133) from Balaklava, the occiput is broad and very 

 flat. 



In the Hungarian cranium, according to Eilwards,t the back of the head ap- 

 pears flat, forming almost a straight line with the nape of the neck, 



A cast of the skull of a young G-reek (1354), exhibits a moderately full and 

 rounded occiput. In the Greek skulls, in the Chatham collection, the " occipiit 

 is well rounded, and does not, in genwral, project ; the space for the downward 

 projection of the brain in the occipital region is well developed." 



The cranium of a Roman praetorian soldier, figured by Blumenbach,§ has the 

 external occipital protuberance very broad and prominent. In the skull of a 

 Roman soldier, || taken from an ancient cemetery at York, the occiput is broad 

 and rounded, and the protuberance rather prominent. So also in the Roman 

 cranium described by Di-. Thurnam, ^ the occipital bone is full and prominent, 

 especially in its upper half. 



In an Etruscan skiill in the Galerie Anthropologique at Paris, the occiput is 

 full and rounded.** 



The general form of the occipital region of the so-called Phoenician skiill 

 (1352) is like that of the Norwegian. In the latter, however, the external 

 occipital i^rotuberance, and the superior curved line are strongly pronounced ; 

 in the former the skull is quite smooth at this place. 



All the Circassian skulls exhibit great fulness of the occipital protuberance. 

 The upper part of the hind-head is flat. The occiput as a whole is rounded in 

 the Armenian skull, No. 789, and in this respect is like the Persian skull. No. 

 731. Nos. 790, 791, 792 (Armenian) are longer and more angular heads, and 

 owing to the prominence of the occipital protuberance, are more like the Cir- 

 cassian skulls. In Nos. 792 and 794, also Armenian, the occiput is flatly 

 round. The rather short and angular Parsee heads, exhibit a rounded occi- 

 put — very well shown in No. 731, but less marked in No. 743, owing to the 

 general prominence of the occipital bone. The form of the occipital region in 

 the ASghan head, is like that of the Armenian and Circassian. 



The Baluchi and Afi"ghan heads in the Chatham collection have the " occiput 



* Catalogus Craniorum Diversarum Gentium quaecollegit, J. Van der Iloeven. Lugduni 

 Batavoram, 1860. This valuable catalogue contains a brief account of 171 human 

 crania aud 39 casts, with the principal measurements of all the skulls. 



t Observations on the Human Crania contained in the Museum of the Army Medical 

 Department, P'ort Pitt, Chatham. By George Williamson, M D., Dublin, 1857. 



t Des Caractr-res Physiologiques des Races Humaines. Par W. F. Edwards, 1829. 



g Decades craniorum. Tab 32. 



II Pescribed by Rctzius in Muller's Archiv. fiir Anat., Phys., etc. Jahr. 1849, p. 576. 



*f Crania Hritannica, Decade I. 



** See Cranial Characteristics of the Races of Men, in Indigenous Races of the Earth, 

 p. 313, for a drawing of this skull. 



I860.] 




402 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF • 



well rounded, and the space for the downward development of the brain con- 

 siderable. ' ' The occiput of a Candahar skull is ' ' broad, iiat and pei-pendicular, 

 giving the skull something of the appearance of the flat-headed American In- 

 dians, although in a much less degree." 



The Affghan head, as a whole, resembles, in several respects, the Hindoo 

 type. 



The ancient Assyrian skull is full and rounded in the occipital region. 

 The Egyptian skulls diflfer among themselves as regards the form of the oc- 

 ciput. Of the series termed " Grseco-Egyptians" by Dr. Morton, Nos. 799, 801, 

 804, 812, 815, 821, 824, 856, 837, 838, 840 and 875, possess, in general, the 

 same occipital form as is seen in the Swedish crania referred to above. Nos. 

 798, 808, 814, 817, 825, 850, 859, 868, 873, 884 and 893 have the occiput less 

 ovoidal in shape and more rounded, owing to the external occipital protuber- 

 ance being less prominent. These latter skulls are, in general, broader than 

 the former, and exhibit a somewhat dififerent configuration of the crown. 

 The same difference is observable in the other groups of skulls representing 

 the Egyptian race in the Academy's collection. Thus of the Ancient Theban 

 Egyptians, Nos. 48, 60, 844, 846, 855, 862, 876, 1044, 1293 and 1295 exhibit 

 a more or less rounded occiput, while in Nos. 847, 848, 849, 851, 853, 854, 

 S60, 866, 867, 871, 880, 881, 882, 883, 887, 889, 894 and 1290, the occiput is 

 either shelving, as in the Swedish skull, or elongated, owing to the great pro- 

 tuberance of the occipital boss, as in the kumbe-kephalic crania above alluded 

 to. According to Dr. Morton, No. 1044 may serve as a tj/pe of the genuine 

 Egyptian conformation. He describes it as a long, oval cranium with a reced- 

 ing forehead, gently aquiline nose, retracted chin, and a marked distance 

 between the no^e and mouth — features all characteristic of the monumental 

 Egyptian. He makes no allusion, however, to the configuration of the occiput, 

 which, as will be seen by referring to the wood cut on p. 17 of "Crania ^gyp- 

 tiaca," or p. 38 of my Catalogue, is quite peculiar. Some idea of the variety of 

 occipital forms among these Egyptian skulls, may be obtained by comparing 

 together the wood cuts in my Catalogue representing Nos. 812, 878, 1044, 888 

 and 877 of the collection. Dr. Morton's descriptions of the Egyptian skulls 

 are, in general, very brief. He seldom alludes to the shape of the occiput. 

 He notices the "tumid" occiput of No. 871, and the "full" occiput of No. 867. 

 The occipital region of Nos. 861 and 886 is intermediate in shape between the 

 elongate and rounded foims. Of the ancient Egyptians from the Necropolis 

 of Memphis, Nos. 1223, 1235, 1519, 1520, 1521 and 1522 possess a rounded occi- 

 put. In all the rest the posterior part of the head is elongated and flattened 

 superorly. This elongation is particularly well mMrked in Nos. 809, 810, 811, 

 813, 1201, 1291, and also in No. 819 from Arabat el-Matfoon, the ancient 

 Abydos. In all these skulls the external occipital protuberance is exceedingly 

 prominent. This statement applies also to three embalmed Egyptian heads 

 found by Mr. Wm. A. Gliddon in a rock-tomb located about four miles west 

 of the city of Alexandria, and belonging, probably, to the Ptolemaic era. 

 Among the Memphite Egyptian skulls is one (No. 806) which is altogether 

 peculiar and unlike the other heads of this series. It has a broad, low and 

 flat occiput, while the coronal region is decidedly Gothic in its outline. All 

 the crania obtained from the tombs opened by Prof. Lepsius at the base of the 

 great Pyramid of Gizeh, are long, oval heads, with protuberant occiputs, 

 flattened superiorly. Three Kens or ancient Nubians from the pits at Debod, 

 (827, 828, 829) exhibit the protuberant, shelving form of occiput. The hind 

 head in No. 828 is exceedingly elongated. Dr. Morton speaks of the very full 

 occiput of this skull. He makes no allusion to the occipital form in his 

 descriptions of the others. The occiput of No. 826 is rounded. Two crania 

 (830, 831) of ancient Egyptians, from the pits at Koum Ombos, have a rounded 

 occiput. A tliird, No. 832, has the occiput superiorly flattened. The Acade- 

 my's collection contains four skulls of ancient Egyptians, obtained by the late 

 Mr. G. R. Gliddon from the crocodile mummy-pits called Margaret-es-Sa- 



[Sept . 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 403 



moun, behind the village of Maabdeh, and opposite to Manfaloot. Three of 

 these, Nos. 834, 836 and 1292, have the shelving occiput ; in the fourth, No. 

 833, the occiput is rounded. Among the Egyptian skulls grouped in the 

 Catalogue under the head of Miscellaneous, there is one (No. 822) which differs 

 considerably in its general form and characters from the skulls with which it 

 is associated. It was obtained by the late Mr. Gliddon from a tumulus at the 

 Island of Beggeh, the ancient Senem, a sacred spot close to Philae in Nubia. 

 Mr. Gliddon seems to have regarded this skull as that of "a pilgrim to the 

 Temple." The configuration of the crown is triangular, while the occiput is 

 almost vertically flattened. Of the four other heads in this group, Nos. 802 

 and 1240 possess the rounded form of occiput, while in Nos. 803 and 1317 the 

 hind-head is superiorly flattened. 



The dolicho-kephalic Hebrew skulls in the collection, exhibit an occipiit 

 more or less regularly rounded, as is very well seen in Nos. 818, 842, 845, 

 865 and 870. In the oblong and somewhat angular head. No. 807, the basal 

 portion of the occiput is perceptibly flattened, and the occipital protuberance 

 somewhat more prominent than in the other skulls of this group. 



In the Arab skulls the occiput is broad and flattened. In No. 781 the occipi- 

 tal region is flattened superiorly, as in the Norwegian and Swedish crania, and 

 the occipital protuberance c^uite prominent. In No. 784 the head widens out 

 behind the mastoid processes, giving the occipital region a full and rounded 

 appearance. In No. 780 the occiput is flattened. 



The Fellah skulls have very prominent occiputs, the occipital protuberance 

 being more or less strongly marked. The Coptic skull exhibits great breadth 

 and fulness of the whole posterior region. 



The occiput of the cast of an Abyssinian skull in the collection (1361) is 

 quite prominent ; the hind-head shelves downwards and backwards somewhat 

 like that of the Swede. 



The occipital region of the Guanche cranium (23) is full and prominent. 



The Hindoo skulls in the collection, also vary in the form of the occipital 

 region. Some of the Ayra, Brahminic or high caste heads of this group, such 

 as Nos. 1329, 1331 and 1335 exhibit the Swedish form of occiput ; others (Nos. 

 1330, 1384) the rounded shape. In four Thugs, the occipital configuration is 

 intermediate between these two forms. In No. 1332 the occiput is almost 

 vertically flattened. In 11 Bengalee crania, (Nos. 6, 25, 31, 81, 411, 413, 432, 

 443, 444", 948 and 1312) the occiput is flatly round. In 21 others (Nos. 4, 5, 

 8, 19, 20, 28, 32, 49, 51, 111, 410, 442, 547, 553, 554. 665, 1309, 1310, 1311, 

 1344 and 1554) posterior part of the head is superiorly flattened and inclined. 

 In No. 20 the whole os occipitis stands out very prominently, and is separated 

 from the ossa parietalia by numerous wormian bones. This feature is also seen, 

 to some extent, in Nos. 1309 and 1310. Such a form of the occiput is very well 

 exhibited in plate 20, fig. 1, of the Atlas to Vimont's Traite de Phroiologie 

 Humaine et Comparee. In No. 29, a peculiar and asymmetrical skull, the 

 occipital bone appears as if pressed from behind and beneath forwards and 

 upwards. The hind-head of No. 1047 is almost vertically flattened. 



In certain crania from the Indian Peninsula, Dr. Williamson says that the 

 posterior part of the skull is large, and the occiput prominent ; the space for 

 t!ie downward developement of the brain of moderate extent. Two Hindoos 

 and a Thug have the occiput prominent. In five crania from Ceylon, the 

 occiput is well rounded. 



There are thirteen Chinese skulls in the Academy's collection. Of these, 

 Nos. 94, 550, 669, 670, 1526, and 1527 exhibit the elongate, shelving form of 

 occiput, very well represented in the wood-cut on p. 47 of my Catalogue oj 

 Human Crania. In Nos. 3, 56, 426, 427, and 1028, the occiput is rounded, 

 and in No. 1336 vertically flattened. The Chinese crania in the Chatham 

 Museum have the occiput rounded and not prominent. Accoiding to Blan- 

 chard, in the Chinese skulls figured in Dumoutier's Atlas, "la region occipi- 



1«G0.] 




404 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



tale s'etend pen en arriere." Blanchard informs us that this character is ex- 

 hibited in many of the specimens of this race, contained in the anthropo- 

 logical collection of the Museum d'Histoire Naturelle de Paris. In all these 

 specimens he found the posterior part of the head a little less elongated than 

 in the inhabitants of the Phillipine Islands.* 



In a Japanese skull (668) the hind-head is rounded; in two Loo-choo crania 

 (672, 673) it is shelving. 



In two I3urmese crania, (661, 667) the occiput is round and moderately full. 

 The occipital region of a Siamese skull, from Bangkok (123) is broad and fiat, 

 and slightly resembles that of the Malay head. 



Some of the Malay crania, (41, 1186, 1316, and 1525,) have elongate or 

 shelving occiputs; in others, (46, 47, 201, 433, 543, 1338, 1339, 1341, 1523,) 

 the occipital region is more or less flatly round ; and in others still, (424, 

 425, 428, 429, 430, 459, 495, 544, 546, and 1337,) it is more or less globular. 

 In Nos. 545 and 1340, the occiput is compressed behind, and somewhat be- 

 neath, so as to form a sort of inclined plane, sloping downwards and forwards, 

 to the foramen magnum. 



Nine Burmese and Malay crania in the Chatham collection have the occiput 

 broad and well rounded ; and the space for the downward development of the 

 cerebellum in the occipital region extensive. In one Burmese skull, the pos- 

 terior part of the head is large, and the occiput straight. In a .Japanese 

 skull the occiput is broad, flat, and almost perpendicular. This is true also, 

 of some of the Malay skulls, and of two Burmese described by Dr. Williamson, 

 in the appendix to his catalogue. 



Finlayson, in describing the tribes of the Trans-Gangetic, or Indo-Chinese 

 Peninsula, says that "the occipital foramen is often placed so far back that 

 from the crown to the nape of the neck is nearly a straight line."t According 

 to Dr. Ruschenberger, the occipital portion of the Siamese skull is nearly 

 vertical, and compared with the anterior and sincipital division, very small. J 

 In the inhabitants of Cochin-China or Annam, according to Morton, the 

 occipital portion of the head is more elongated than in the Siamese. 



Only one (1551) of the Lapland skulls in the Academy's collection has the 

 shelving occiput; all the others, (1250, 1257, and 1552,) possess a broad and 

 flatly rounded occipital region. 



All the Eskimo crania in the collection have narrow, elongate, or ovoidal 

 occiputs. In an Eskimo skull at Chatham, the "occiput is narrow and 

 prominent." 



In the Tchuktciii crania brought from B,:>hring's Straits by my friend, E. M. 

 Kern, Esq., the occiput is prominent and shelving. The skull of an Aleutian, 

 from Unalaschka, contained in the Rijk's Museum of Natural History, at 

 Leyden, and figured and described by Prof. Van der Hoeveu, has a prominent 

 ociput. § 



The occipital region of a Kamskatkan cranial cast (725) is fall and pro- 

 tuberant. In the skull of a Northern Reindeer Tungus, figured by Blumen- 

 bach, in Table xvi. of his Decades Craniorum, "the occiput is remarkably 

 prominent, so that the distance between the external occipital protuberance 

 and the superior incisors is equal to nine inches." The Kalmuck (1553) and 

 Burat skulls (1355) have globular occiputs. 



The occipital region of the skull of an Icelander (125) is full, protuberant, 

 and shelving. 



* Voyage au Pole Sud et dans rOceanie,&c. Anthropologie. Par Emile Blanchard. 

 Paris, 1854. 



t Embassy to Siam and Hue, p. 230. 



t A voyage Round the World; including an Embassy to Muscat and Siam. By W. 

 S. W. Ruschenberger, M. D. Philada., 1838, p. 209. 



.5 Beschrijving van Drie Merkwaardise Menschelijke Schedels uit het Rijk's Museum 

 van Natuurlijke Histore te Leiden. Door J. Van der Hoeven. 



[Sept- 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 405 



Four of the Kanaka skulls in the collection, (564, 695, 1300, and 1308,) 

 have elongate or shelving occiputs. In three others, (566, 572,) the occiput 

 is rounded. In two skulls from Oahu, (1023, 1024,) the occipital region is 

 prominent ; in another (1022) it is more rounded. Three Tahaitian crania 

 (1017, 1019, 1020,) exhibit protuberant and shelving occiputs. In two other 

 Tahaitian heads (1016, 1021) the occiput is more rounded, and in still 

 another (1018) it is broad and flat. Tlie crania of Sandwich Ishiuders, in the 

 Chatham collection, possess rounded occiputs. In an Otahaitian skull the 

 occiput is prominent. 



There are three Marquesan skulls in the Academy's collection. In one of 

 these, from Nukahivah, the occiput is narrow and shelving, and the occipital 

 boss quite protuberant. In another, also, from Nukahivah, and a third from 

 Christina, the occipital region is fuller and less prominent. 



All the New Zealand crania in the Academy's collection exhibit the elongate 

 and narrow form of occiput. In five New Zealand skulls in the Chatham 

 Museum, " the occiput is not prominent, but well rounded off." 



In a Feejee specimen from Bau, (1029) the occipital region is narrow and 

 protuberant.* 



Three Arickaree skulls, of the Upper Missouri, exhibit the same shelving 

 occiput and prominent occipital protuberance, seen in the Swedish, Cimbrian, 

 and Ostrogoth crania. They are long, oval skulls, and resemble, in their 

 general configuration, the Swedish crania, as may be seen by comparing 

 together No. 649 (Arickaree), and No. 1247 (Swede). One of the Arickaree 

 skulls (No. 748), presents a somewhat modified occipital form. It is like that 

 represented in plate 35 of Crania Americana, or fig. 2 of plate 96 of Vimont's 

 Atlas. The superiorly flattened form of the occiput is also seen in the 

 Assinaboin skulls, though less strongly marked. These crania are broader 

 and less oval than the preceding. The same occipital form is also very well 

 marked in Nos. 632 and 635 of the Cherokee group. These two crania are 

 long ovals. In the other specimens of this group, the occipital protuberance 

 is less prominent, and the whole hind-head more evenly rounded in the line 

 of prolongation of the sagittal suture. These Cherokee skulls differ from each 

 other in several particulars. In two Chetimache skulls, from Louisiana, the 

 occipital region is flattened nearly perpendicularly from the superior spinous 

 ridge upwards. In the Chippeway or Ojibway skull. No. 684, the hind-head 

 is shelving ; in No. 683 it presents a different form, as seen in plate 28 of 

 Crania Americana. Two of the Kootenay crania (Nos. 744, 745), have the 

 occiput protuberant and elongated. In No. 1227 the hind-head is flat. Two 

 of the Creek skulls (Nos. 441, 579), are short heads with broad, globular 

 occiputs. No. 751, a long, oval skull, has the superiorly flattened hind-head 

 and prominent occipital protuberance well marked. In its general form, this 

 head strongly calls to mind the Cimbric type or configuration. In No. 1454 

 the occiput is rounded. Dr. Morton, writing in 1839, says that " the present 

 Creek nation is said to embrace the remains of no less than fifteen different 

 tribes, which they have conquered at various times." Tliis fact may explain 

 the discrepancy in forms exhibited by the different specimens of this group. 

 The Dacota skull (No. 605) has a globular occiput. In No. 112, the occipital 

 region is very much elongated and shelving, as in the Creek skull (No. 751). 

 The occiput of No. 204, resembles that of the Cayuga skull, figured in plate 35 

 of Crania Americana. The Huron cranium (No. 15) is beautifully lithographed 

 in Crania Americana, pi. 37. Reference to it will show that the occiput is so 

 flattened as to slant or incline from above downwards and backwards, and to 



* One half of the crania contained in the Polynesian gronp of the Morton collection 

 were procured by Dr. Thos. J. Turner, who is preparing a monograph on the cranial and 

 other physical characteristics of this interesting race, several varieties of which he wa« 

 able to study practically during his cruise in the Pacific. 



I860.] 




406 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



occupy a position between the shelving occiput of the Swede and the verti- 

 cally flattened form. Nos. 1217 and 1218 exhibit the same form. No. 607 

 approximates the shelving, or superiorly flattened shape. Tire exact form of 

 the hind-head cannot be determined in the Illinois crania in the Academy's 

 collection, for the whole of the os occipitis is wanting in No. 1010, and the 

 greater part in No. 1051. In the former, the occiput appears to have been 

 shelving ; in the latter, flatly round or globular. In two Iroquois skulls (Nos. 

 16 and 119), the occiput is elongated and shelving. In a third (No. 989), it 

 is almost globular. Of the Lenape, or Delaware Indian skulls, Nos. 40, 115. 

 118, and 1265, possess an elongated occiput, such as is seen in plate 32 of 

 Crania Americana. In No. 418 the posterior region is rounded, and far less 

 prominent. In Nos. 1263, 1562, and 1563, the hind-head is broad and squarely 

 flattened. In No. 1264 the occipital protuberance is prominent and knob- 

 like. No. 998 is flatly round in the occipital region. In all the Mandan 

 and Minetari skulls, the form of the occipital region is very similar to that of 

 the Arickarees and Assinaboins. The form of the occiput vai-ies among the 

 diff'erent specimens of the Menominee group. Nos. 35, 44, 78, 454, and 563, 

 exhibit the form seen in the Huron skull, figured in Crania Americana, plate 

 37. The other two (Nos. 1220 and and 1222), are more elongated behind. 

 No. 10-38 of the Miami group, has an occiput like the Huron cranium just 

 alluded to. In 1233 the hind-head is perpendicularly flattened. All the rest 

 of this series exhibit the elongated form. In the three Mohawk crania, the 

 occiput is superiorly flattened, and the occipital protuberance prominent. 

 Two Moqui skulls (138, 139), are brachykephalic, with very flat occiputs. 

 The Narragansett skulls in the collection difi'er from each other in the form of 

 the occipital region. In No. 950 the hind-head is elongated. In No. 951 

 it is shelving, all that part of the occipital bone above the superior spinous 

 ridge being tumid. The posterior part of the head, in Nos. 952 and 954, 

 shelves or inclines from above downwards and backwards. In the latter skull 

 the occipital base is very protuberant. In No. 953 the occiput is full and 

 rounded, instead of being elongated, as in the others. This is true, also, of 

 Nos. 956 and 693. In the latter, the os occipitis is somewhat pressed forwards 

 under the parietalia. No. 1040 is a very peculiar, oblong head ; the shelving 

 and elongated occiput projects far behind the external auditory meati, and 

 the basis-occipitis is quite flat. Nos. 955 and 957 have pointed or acuminated 

 occiputs, which appear to be posthumously distorted. In No. 955 the left 

 side of the occipital bone is flattened ; in No. 957, the right. In the former 

 the left side, and in the latter the right, appears to have rested upon the 

 ground for a very long time, and to have been flattened by the weight of the 

 superincumbent bones of the head. This flatness gives an acuminated ap- 

 pearance to the occiput, the point being to one or other side of the median 

 line. Since the publication of Crania Americana, craniographers have been 

 familiar with the vertical flatness of the occiput in crania of the Natchez tribe. 

 This peculiar flatness is well shown in No. 1106. The shelving occipital form 

 is shown in all the Natick skulls. Of the Osage crania, No. 54 is a short, 

 angularly round head, with an occiput almost vertically flattened. In No. 

 660, a larger head, the tumid occiput gives a shelving form to the hind-head, 

 seen in profile. In the Ottoes the occiput is broad and flatly round, and aj)- 

 proximates strongly, the globular form exhibited in the Lapps and Kalmucks. 

 The same form is exhibited in the round-headed Ottawa, No. 1007. In the 

 other two Ottawa skulls, the hind-head is shelving. In the round-headed 

 Ottio-amies, the occiput is globular. In No. 415 of this group, this globular 

 shape is destroyed by the tumid occiput. The two Pawnee skulls contrast 

 strongly with each other in the shape of the occiput, which in No. 540 is flatly 

 round, and in No. 1043 is excessively elongated and shelving. In two 

 Penobscot skulls the occiput is rounded. Of the Potawatomie crania. No. 

 657 as shown in plate 34 of Crania Americana, has an angularly round 



[Sept. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 407 



occiput. In No.- 736, a short, triangular skull; the occiput is flat. In the 

 broadly oval cranium (No. 737), the hind-head is rounded. In No. 1352 the 

 hind-head approximates the shelving type. The two Sauk skulls are unlike 

 each other in the shape of the occiput. No. 561 has a broad, though pro- 

 tuberant hind-head. In No. 1246 the occipital region is rounded. The Semi- 

 nole Indians are represented in the Academy's collection by sixteen skulls. 

 No. 456 (figured in Crania Americana, pi. 24}, is a round head, with a full 

 and somewhat angularly rounded occiput. In No. 604 the knob-like pro- 

 tuberance of the occipital bone destroys the rounded form of the hind-head, 

 and gives the latter a different shape, as will be seen by comparing the first 

 cut on page 166 of Crania Americana, with plate 24 of that work. In No. 

 698 the hind-head is elongated and shelving. In No. 707 it approximates in 

 its lower part the globular form, and is in striking contrast with No. 456, as 

 may be seen by comparing together plates 23 and 24 of Crania Americana. 

 In No. 708 it is more elongated and less broad, and in No. 754 rather flatly 

 rounded. No. 726 is a short head, with a full, broad, but somewhat shelving 

 occiput. No. 727 possesses a narrow and prominent occiput, which is wider 

 between the parietal bosses than at the base. In No. 728 the occiput is fuller 

 and more rounded. In No. 729 the hind head is rather narrow below, and 

 protuberant. In No. 730 the occiput is broader at the base than above, and 

 quite pointed. In Nos. 732, 733, 753,* and 1286, the occiput is protuberant 

 and shelving above. A Shawnee skull, 'No. 606, has a very narrow, pro- 

 tuberant, and symmetrical occiput ; the left, basal part of the occipital bone 

 being flattened, perhaps posthumously. In No. 691 the occiput is flattened 

 vertically on the right side. In No. 1210, a narrow, and highly arched skull, 

 the hind head is narrow, and the upper part of the occipital bone prominent. 

 The Shoshone skulls in the collection are not alike in the form of the occiput. 

 No. 1446 exhibits a broad and somewhat flatly rounded hind-head, appearing 

 as if pressed under the parietal bosses ; the upper and posterior part of the 

 head, just between the parietal protuberances, being broad and very elevated. 

 In No. 1447 the occiput is protuberant and shelving. In No. 1448 the occiput 

 is broad at the base, and flattened, though not vertically. No. 1449 possesses a 

 rounded and not very prominent occiput. Two Upsarooka skulls, (Nos. 

 1228 and 1229), have the hind-head shelving, and the occipital base very 

 prominent. In the Winnebago cranium (No. 559), the occiput is broad and 

 globular. In No. 560 it is less broad and more projecting. In the Yamasse 

 skalls (Nos. 1214 and 1215), the occiput is narrow and rounded. In No. 

 1216 it is broad and rounded, almost to globularity. There are four skulls of 

 California Indians in the collection.! No. 1514 exhibits what may be called 

 a pyramidal occiput. The occipital bone above the superior spinous ridge is 

 very prominent, and constitutes a common centre, towards which the parietals 

 slant from above downwards and backwards, and also at the sides, and the basal 

 portion of the occipital bone upwards and backwards, somewhat after the 

 fashion seen in some of the elongated Peruvian heads. No. 1027, a female 

 cranium from Mare Island, California, is a long, narrow head, with a narrow 

 and oval occiput. No. 943, also from Mare Island, exhibits a shelving occiput. 

 Of the crania marked "miscellaneous'' in the Catalogue, No. 416, from a 

 mound on the Upper Mississippi, possesses a narrow and prominent occiput. 

 This skull is represented in plate 52 of Crania Americana in such a position 

 that, at first sight, the occiput appears full and rounded. But if the observer 

 will place his hand over the lower jaw, so as to hide it, and then hold the 

 lithograph in such a manner that the base of the skull shall be parallel with 



* The last skull of the Seminole group should be numbered in the Catalogue, 753, in- 

 stead of 1556. 



t Two of these are enumerated in the published Catalogue. The other two have been 

 added to the collection by my friend. Dr. Thos. J. Turner, of the United Stales Navy, 

 since the Catalogue was printed. 



1800.] 




408 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



the plane of tlie horizon, he will then see that the head is in reality a long 

 one, and that the occipital region ia prominent and not round. No- 1237, 

 from Illinois, is a broad, asymmetrical head, flattened behind slantingly, and 

 rather to the left. Nos. 1315, 1510, and 1511 have broad, prominent, and 

 somewhat shelving occiputs. No. 420, from the Cave at Steubenville, Ohio, 

 has a low, broad occiput, flattened on the right side. In No. 436, also from 

 the Cave-cemetery at Steubenville, the broad occiput is almost vertically 

 flattened. In Nos. 437 and 438, also from Steubenville, the occiput is low, 

 broad, and vertically flattened. The former is asymmetrical. The occiput is 

 slantingly flattened in No. 439. No. 210 is wanting in symmetry. Tne 

 occiput is flattened on the left side, perhaps posthumously. It appears to 

 have been originally moderately full and rounded. In No. 658 the broad occiput 

 is asymmetrically flattened to the right of the median line. No. 723, also 

 non-symmetrical, has a low, broad, and vertically flattened occiput. In No. 

 53, from a mound at Circleville, the occipital protuberance is prominent, and 

 the hind-head shelving. No. 1287, from a mound at Chillicothe, has a broad 

 occiput, slightly truncated or flattened, directly behind. No. 1288, from the 

 same place, occiput shelving and very protuberant. No. 992, from a mound 

 in Tennessee, broad, asymmetrical, and perpendicularly flattened or truncated 

 No. 1270, from Detroit, occiput shelving and protuberant. No. 1271, from 

 Ohio, occiput broad, and flattened directly behind. No. 1272, found with the 

 preceding, occiput moderately prominent. No. 1455, from a mound in Florida ; 

 a very mis-shapen skull, with a low, broad, and asymmetrically flattened 

 occiput. No. 417, Cayuga, of New York ; occiput elongated and prominent. 

 No. 1041, a Cheyenne of Missouri ; occiput shelving and protuberant. No. 

 211, from Missouri ; a broad and flat head, with globular occiput. No. 9S7, 

 Chemesyan, from the N. W. coast of America ; occiput full and rounded. No. 

 22, young Choctaw female, of Georgia ; occiput protuberant and shelving. 

 No. 39, Euchee Indian, of Florida ; occiput full and rounded. No. 212, cast 

 of a Kenahawha skull ; occiput vertically flattened. No. 27, Massasauga 

 Indian, of Peterboro', Upper Canada, and No. 455, Mingo Indian, from Ohio ; 

 occiput elongated and shelving. No. 1219 Nanticoke, (?) from the Wyoming 

 Valley ; occiput full and globular. No. 567, Naumkeag, of Massachusetts ; 

 occiput narrow and prominent. No. 33, Oneida warrior ; occiput flattened ; 

 occipital base prominent. No. 1036, Pocasset Indian ; occiput flatly rounded. 

 No. 26, Quinnipiack (Mohegan) Indian ; occiput globular. No. 1516, Seneca 

 Indian, from New York ; occiput broad and truncated, or flattened directly be- 

 hind. No. 1557, from the banks of the Susquehanna ; form of the occiput very 

 much like that of the California head (No. 1514). In Nos. 216 and 219, the 

 occiput is shelving and protuberant. The same form is seen in the Maya 

 skull (No. 990). The Araucanian skull (No. 651) has a' full and rounded 

 occiput. In No. 652 the occiput is arched. In No. 654 the occipital region is 

 square and truncated, or vertically flattened, as is well shown in plate 68 

 of Crania Americana. In Nos. 655 and 656 the occiput is moderately full and 

 rounded. In No. 995 the hind-head is fuller than in the preceding, and the 

 occipital protuberance more prominent. In No. 997 the occipital boss is very 

 prominent. In No. 221 the hind-head is shelving, and the occipital protuberance 

 sharply pointed. In No. 222 the occiput is shelving and protuberant; in 

 No. 120 it is broad and flatly round. The flattened form of the occiput of No. 

 1242 is well shown in the wood-cut on p. 75 of the Catalogue. The three Charib 

 skulls in the collection have prominent and elongated occiputs. In the cast of 

 a Patagonian skull, the hind-head projects far behind the meati. The whole 

 of the occipital region is full and tumid. In many of the crania which we have 

 passed in review, the elongation of the occiput backwards is chiefly due to the 

 great prominence of the occipital boss. In the Patagonian head, this feature 

 is not present. The-hind head of the Puelche girl is rather flat. The head 

 of a Puelche, from the Rio Negro, figured by d'Orbigny, has a truncated 



[Sept. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 409 



occiput.* In all the Brazilian crania, the occipital region is more or lest' 

 elongated and superiorly flattened, as in the Swedes. 



There are nine aboriginal American skulls in the collection at Fort Pitt, 

 Chatham. These are described by Dr. Williamsonf in his catalogue. No. 67, 

 from Lake Huron, has a rounded occiput. No. 68, skull of a North American 

 Indian, has the occiput projecting. In No. 69 "the vertex and occiput are 

 well arched." In No. 70 the occiput is rounded. In No. 71 "the vertex and 

 occiput are well rounded." In No. 473, from Canada, the occiput is large 

 and well rounded, and the space for the downward development of the brain 

 in the occipital region is very great. No. 474, also from Canada, is a round 

 skull. No special statement is made concerning the form of the occiput, but 

 from the general description of the head, I consider it to be oval. In No. 475 . 

 a Flathead, "the occiput descends from the vertex abruptly, and almost per- 

 pendicularly to the foramen magnum." In No. 476, a Charib, from St. Vin- 

 cent, "the vertex gradually slopes backwards and downwards to the occiput, 

 which projects, and is narrow from above downwards ; the occiput is very flat, 

 and nearly the whole of the occipital bone rests upon a plane surface." 



The late Dr. Morton, as is well known, regarded flatness of the occiput 

 as a characteristic feature of the aboriginal American skull. In Crania 

 Americana (page 65), he expressly says that "flatness of the occipital 

 portion of the cranium will probably be found to characterize the 

 greater or less number of individuals in every existing tribe, from Terra del 

 Faego to the Canadas. If these skulls be viewed behind, we observe the 

 occipital outline to be moderately curved outwards, wide at the occipital pro- 

 tuberances, and full from those points to the opening of the ear. From the 

 parietal protuberances there is a slightly curved slope to the vertex, pro- 

 ducing a conical, or rather a wedge-shaped outline." He says, furthermore, 

 that even in the elongated heads of the Lenapes, the Iroquois, Cherokees, 

 Mandans, Rickarees, and Assinaboins, "the characteristic truncation of the 

 occiput is more or less obvious." In another publication, J when alluding to 

 the physical characteristics of the Indian tribes, he again speaks of " the flat- 

 tened or vertical occiput" as a characteristic common to them all. In tlie 

 3d edition of his Catalogue of SkuUs of Man and the Inferior Animals, Dr. M. 

 briefly describes a very remarkable head, found by Dr. Davis and Mr. 

 Squier, in a mound in the Scioto Valley, Ohio, and described and figured by 

 them in their "Ancient Monuments of the Mississippi Valley," plates 47 and 

 48. Dr. M. regarded this head as the "perfect type of the Indian conforma- 

 tion, to which the skulls of all the tribes, from Cape Horn to Canada, more 

 or less approximate. It possesses the national characteristics in perfection, 

 as seen in the elevated vertex, flattened occiput, &c. Similar forms, " he con- 

 tinues, " are common in the Peruvian tombs, and have the occiput as in this 

 instance, so flattened and vertical as to give the idea of artificial compression : 

 yet this is only an exaggeration of the natural form, caused by the pressure of 

 the cradle-board, in common use among the xlmerican nations." 



In his last contribution to craniography, § Dr. Morton describes the typical 

 Indian skull to be of a decidedly rounded form, with the occipital portion 

 flattened in the upward direction. 



Dr. Morton's opinion concerning the typical form of the occiput in the 

 various tribes of American Indians, though very generally acquiesced in by 

 craniographers, has not been accepted by all without qualification. 



" L'inspection des cranes mexicains," writes Dr. Gosse, of Geneva, I'epre- 

 sentes dans les Crania Americana me semble prouver que chez ces derniers, 



* L'Homme Americain. Atlas, Plate i. fig, 1. 



t Op. cit. pp. 64-67, 83, 85. 



I Inquiry into the Distinctive Characteristics of the Aboriginal Race of America, p. 5 . 



^ The Physical Type of the American Indians. 



I860.] ' 28 




410 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



la depression de I'occiput etait loin d'etre aussi generale et aussi marquee que 

 parmi les Incas et que chez les cranes examines par Meyen ; car dans plusieurs 

 d'entre eux, la tete est plutot normalement developpee en arriere. Ce qui 

 ni'etonne, " he continues, "c'estqu' independamment de la transmission 

 liereditaire, Morton n'ait pas fait jouer un role plus general a Taction pro- 

 longee de ce genre de berceau, le compagnon des peuples nomades sur I'apla- 

 tissement du derriere de la tete, qu'il considere comme un caractere normal 

 du type americain."* 



Dr. J. B. Davis also writes that though "this position of Morton's is no 

 doubt fonnded in truth, yet it must be allowed to be liable to numerous ex- 

 ceptions." His doubts appear to have been awakened by the fact which he 

 mentions, that the crania of Americans, figured by Sandifort and Milne- 

 Edwards, (one of them given as a typical skull), are both distinguished by a 

 considerable occipital projection.! 



Prof. Daniel Wilson, of Canada, in a recent interesting paper on the 

 Cranial Type of the American Aborigines, t tells us that he has carefully ex- 

 amined twenty-nine Indian skulls, three only of which he regards as brachy- 

 cephalic. " One of these three, a very remarkable and massive skull, was 

 turned up at Barrie. on Lake Simcoe, with, it is said, upwards of two hundred 

 others. It differs from all the other Indian crania, in exhibiting the vertical 

 occiput so very strikingly, that when laid resting on it, it stands more firmly 

 than in any other position." He thinks there can be little doubt that the 

 dattened occiput of this skull is the result of artificial compression of a much 

 more decided nature than that of the cradle-board of the papoose. 



Further on, he says, " I am struck, in the majority of the examples ex- 

 amined, with the total absence of any approximation to the flattened occiput. " 

 Fifteen of the crania referred to exhibit a more or les^ decided posterior pro- 

 jection of the occiput, twelve of these being markedly so, and seven of them 

 presenting such a prolongation of it, as constituted one of the most striking 

 features in one class of ancient Scottish crania, which chiefly led to the sug- 

 gestion of the term kumbecephale."§ * * * " I think it extremely pro- 

 bable that further investigation will tend to the conclusion that the vertical 

 or flattened occiput, instead of being a typical characteristic, pertains entirely 

 to the class of artificial modifications of the natural cranium familiar to the 

 American ethnologist, alike in the disclosures of ancient graves, and in the 

 customs of widely separated living tribes." 



From the details which I have presented above, it will be seen that the 

 opinions upon this subject, entertained by Dr. Morton, cannot be substantiated 

 by the aboriginal American crania in the Academy's collection. The verti- 

 cally flattened occiput is by no means a distinctive character of these crania ; 

 on the contrary, it is only an occasional feature among them, and is exhibited 

 also by the skulls of other, and distant races of men. In fact, the occipital 

 region of our American Indian skulls exhibits quite a variety of forms. In 

 some, as we have already seen, the flatness is located superiorly, affecting 

 equally the posterior superior part of the ossa-parietalia, and the upper part 

 of the OS occipitis ; in others, and they are comparatively few, the flattening 

 is directly behind, and is vertical ; in a third variety the flatness is confined 

 wholly to the basal portion of the occipital bone. In some of the skulls the 

 occiput is evenly rounded, in the direction of the longitudinal periphery, the 

 transverse diameter, behind the bony meati, being comparatively small ; in 

 others it is full and globular. If the reader will place the Crania Americana 

 before him, and compare together the outline representations of the posterior 

 part of the skull in the different tribes of Indians, he will be struck with the 



* Essai sur les Deformations Ardficielles du Crane. Paris, 1855, pp. 72, 74. 

 t Crania Britannica, Decade 3, p. 



i Canadian Journal of Industry, Science, and Art. November, 1857, pp. 425, 427. 

 i Prehistoric Annals of Scotland, p. 109. 



[Sept. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 411 



difference of form which they exhibit. In some it is higher than broad ; in 

 others it is broader than high ; in others again, the greatest breadth is be- 

 tween the parietal bosses ; in a fourth variety the greatest breadth coincides 

 with the base. In some, the contour of the hind head is almost square ; in 

 in some almost circular ; in some oblong ; in others triangular, and in others 

 still, pentagonal or very irregular. Now, none of these forms are diagnostic 

 of the Indian skull. Indeed, they all appertain to the races of the Eastern con- 

 tinent, as well as to those of the Western. 



It is very well known to craniographers that Dr. Morton, as early as 1846, 

 pointed out the existence of at least four different forms of the Peruvian skull, 

 all of which he regarded as artificial deformations, although in his Crania 

 Americana, published long before, he contended that these forms were natural 

 and congenital. Five years later, Dr. Rivero andTschudi, without appearing 

 to be aware of the views of Dr. Morton, arrived at the same conclusion — that 

 these peculiar forms were congenital, and that there were four varieties of 

 them. Now, in all these varieties the occiput, as might be expected, varies 

 in form. One variety is very well shown in plate 2 of Crania Americana (No. 

 496 of the Catalogue), and also in the wood-cut representing No. 1277 of the 

 Catalogue. This form of occiput is also seen in Nos. 1275, 1279, 1280, 1281, 

 1283, 1284, 1363, 1364, 1366, and many others. A very different form of the 

 whole head, and of the occiput, which is flatly rounded, is seen in plate 7 of 

 Crania Americana, representing a Peruvian, from Santa. No. 1276 exhibits 

 a similar occiput. In his interesting work entitled Three Years in the Pacific, 

 Dr. Ruschenberger alludes to the peculiarities of form shown in Peruvian 

 skulls. He says that in many of the crania obtained by him at Santa, the 

 occiput ' ' is almost vertical, and rises quite abruptly from the great hole at 

 the base" (p. 374). In plate 4 of Crania Americana, it will be seen that the 

 occiput is much fuller and rounder than in the last specimens. Just such a 

 form of the occipital region is represented in Nos. 1278, 1282, 1365, and 1366. 

 Nos. 13, 30, 75, 77, 84, 85, 86, 87, 93, 95, 97, 446, and many others, are 

 asymmetrical skulls, flattened behind in a manner more or less like one or 

 other of the forms represented in plates 8, 11, and 11 B, of Crania Americana. 

 In other skulls of this great Toltecan group, the occipital flatness is almost 

 vertical, and at the same time symmetrical, as above intimated. The supe- 

 riorly flattened or shelving occiput is seen in some of the Peruvian skulls, as 

 in Nos, 571, 631, and others. No. 696 has an occipital region very much like 

 that figured in Vimont's Atlas, plate 96, fig. 2 ; while Nos. 1420, 1425, and 

 all the casts of skulls found on the Island of Titicaca, resemble, in the con- 

 formation of the occiput, the cranium represented in Table 1 of Fitzinger's 

 Essay Ueber die Schddel der Avaren. 



The skulls of Aymaras, from Bolivia and Peru, figured by D'Orbigny, have 

 projecting occiputs.* 



The Mexican crania in the Academy's collection differ from each other in the 

 form of the occipital region. 



A female skull (34), of this great family, obtained from Acapacingo, in the 

 Valley of Cuernavaca, about fifty miles south of the City of Mexico, and 

 regarded by Morton as belonging to the Tlahuican nation, exhibits an occiput 

 moderately full and somewhat flattened above the slightly protuberant occipital 

 boss. Two ancient Mexican crania (734, 735), exhumed near the Indian 

 village of Guahapan, on the Mountain Popocatapetl, and perhaps of Aztec 

 origin, differ in the shape of the hind head. No. 734 is asymmetrical, the 

 right half of the occiput being flattened and pressed forward, while the left is 

 undisturbed. The hind-head, as a whole, however, is full ; and were it not 

 for the lateral flattening, might be regarded as rounded, or even almost 

 globular. In 735, on the other hand, the hind-head is narrower, and owing 



* L'Homme Americain. Atlas. 



I860.] 




412 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



to tlie strong development of the occipital protuberance, quite prominent, and 

 somewhat shelving from above downwards and backwards. Two skulls 

 (714, 715), from an ancient Mexican cemetery, at Otumba, have full, and 

 more or less rounded occiputs. In another skull from Otumba (716), the 

 hind-head is much more protuberant. (See Crania Americana, plates 59, 60, 

 and 61.) In three crania (717, 718, and 720) from an ancient tomb at 

 Tacuba, the hind-head is high, broad at the base, and the whole occipital 

 bone prominent. The general form of the occipital region is shown in the 

 outline wood-cut at the bottom of p. 233 of Crania Americana. Two Otomie 

 crania (1323 and 1000), possess the same form of occiput. Three other 

 Otomie skulls (1001, 1002, and 1003), have the hind-head elongated and 

 shelving, and the occipital protuberance projecting very much. A short 

 Tlascalan skull (1004), has a full and globular occiput. In the cranium of the 

 Chechemecan female (1005), from a mound at Tezcuco, the occiput is more 

 like that of Nos. 1001, 1002, and 1003 of the Otomie group. No. 1226, in the 

 collection of the Academy, is the skull of a Mexican, from the cemetery of 

 Santiago de Tlatilolco, near the City of Mexico. In this cemetery, many 

 thousands of the natives were interred after the brave defence of their 

 city against Cortes. It is probable, therefore that the individual to whom the 

 skull belonged, stood up manfully in resistance to Spanish aggression. The 

 hind-head is broad and very much flattened in the i^osterior parietal and 

 upper occipital portions. The well-marked transverse ridge forms a promi- 

 nent dividing angle between the superior and inferior portions of the os 

 occipitis. The occiput of the two Fames skulls (681, 1313), from San 

 Lorenzo, near the City of Mexico, is much like that of 1323 and 1000 of the 

 Otomie group. In the skull of an ancient Mexican chief (1314) exhumed 

 together with various aboriginal arms and utensils, from the Cerro de Que- 

 silas, near the City of Mexico, the occiput is of a peculiar form. It is broad, 

 but has very little vertical diameter, owing to the flatness of the crown. The 

 whole head looks as if it had been compressed between two opposing forces, 

 one applied at the top and the other at the base of the cranium. In No. 682 

 the occipital region is flat, very high, and comparatively narrow. Owing 

 to the parallelism of the two sides, it is oblong from above downwards. 

 No. 234, said to be taken from the great Altar of Sacrifices, at Mexico, is 

 remarkably flattened behind, and chiefly to the right of the median line. The 

 occiput of 1353 is singularly distorted. A broad and deep sulcus or fissure 

 extends in the median line, from a little before the coronal suture, entirely 

 back to the foramen magnum, dividing the whole calvaria into two lobes. The 

 occiput in 1566 is full and rounded. Of the two Lipan skulls. No. 1345 has a 

 full and regularly rounded occiput ; No. 1346 a longer and more protuberant 

 one. The remainder of the Mexican crania enumerated in the catalogue, from 

 1515 to 689, have full, and more or less protuberant occiputs. 



No. 722, from the battle field of San Jacinto, in Texas, exhibits a very 

 peculiar form. 



Some time ago. Dr. E. H. Abaddie, of the United States Army, presented to 

 the Academy a series of six crania procured in New Mexico. These skulls 

 are of considerable interest. Two of them, Nos. 1032 and 1033, were obtained 

 from the ruins of Gran Quivira, New Mexico, by Major Carleton, who ex- 

 plored the ruins thoroughly. No. 1034 was disinterred by Dr. Abaddie, from 

 the centre of the ruins of the church at Guarra, New Mexico. No. 931, a 

 fragmentary skull, was found, with many other human remains, in a very 

 bad state of preservation, in making excavations in an old field in Santa Fe, 

 New Mexico. "This head," writes Dr. Abaddie, "and the accompanying 

 remains, evidently belonged to the same race of Indians which formed the 

 numerous population of the large towns, long since in ruins, and of which so 

 little is known, as Gran Quivira, Abo, Guarra, Pecos, Old Church, &c." 



All these heads are brachycephalic, and in all of them the occiput is more 



rSept. 




NATUKAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 413 



or less flattened. No. 1032 exhibits a perpendicular or wall-like flatness of 

 the hind-head. Nos. 1034 and 931 are asymmetrical. In the first the occiput 

 is flattened, chiefly to the right of the median line ; in the other mainly to 

 the left. No. 930, the skull of a Pueblo Indian, taken from the church-yard 

 of the village of Laguna, and 1035, the skull of Jose Largo, a Mescalero chief, 

 who was killed in an afi'ray near Bosque Redondo, not far fi-om the Pecos 

 river. New Mexico, are both dolichocephalic heads. The occiput of the first is 

 shelving ; that of the second, rounded. 



The Academy's collection contains three other New Mexican heads, which 

 were procured and forwarded by Mr. Geo. Gibbs to Dr. J. H. B. McClellan, 

 who placed them in the Museum of the Academy. One, of them (No. 935), 

 is the skull of a chief of the Mogoyon Apache Indians, who was killed by the 

 Navajo Indians, in a little ravine leading up the side of the Mesa de los Lobos, 

 to the right of the Fort Defiance road, and at the head of Canon del Gallo, 

 New Mexico. The occiput of this skull is i^rominent, and somewhat inclined 

 from above downwards and backwards. No. 936 is the skull of a Navajo* 

 Indian, picked up on the road leading from Albuquerque to Fort Defiance, at 

 a place called the "Lake," situated on the Pacific slope of the Rocky Moun- 

 tains, six miles from the summit. In the cranium, tlie occipital region is 

 flatly round. No. 937, the skull of a Pueblof Indian, of Laguna, New 

 Mexico, possesses a vertically flattened occiput. 



The negro crania in the Museum of the Academy exhibit a remarkable 

 agreement in the shape of the occipital region. Of the group marked "Ameri- 

 can born," in the Catalogue, Nos. 1, 2, 69, 74, 421, 548, 1301, 1302, 1318, 

 1320, 235, and 236, are all oblong heads, with prominent, and more or less 

 shelving occiputs. In Nos. 74 and 548 the basal portion of the occipital bone 

 is very much compressed or flattened, like some of the Malay skulls. Nos. 

 549, 900, and 984 of this group have the occiputs more or less rounded. 

 With the exception of Nos. 580, 1098, and 1101, in which the occiput is flat- 

 tened at the base, and No. 1093, the occipital region of which is full and 

 rounded, all the skulls of the native African group iu the collection are long 

 heads with prominent occiputs, which in form are sometimes shelving or in- 

 clined, sometimes oval, and occasionally narrow, and somewhat acuminated. 

 The same statement applies in great measure to the two Hovah, and all the 

 Australian skulls in the collection. No. 435, an Oceanic negro, is a short 

 head, with the occiput inferiorly flattened. No. 1343, a Tasmanian from Van 

 Diemen's Land, has a protuberant occipital region. 



In table 6, 7, and 8 of Blumenbach's Decades Craniorinn, the protuberant 

 occiput of the negro is very well shown. In tables 17, 18, and 19, the form 

 varies in several respects. The normal form of the negro occiput, and that to 

 which the great majority of the African skulls in the Academy's collection 

 >;onforms, is well illustrated in plates 2 and 3 of Prof. Van der Hoeven's 

 valuable treatise entitled "Bijdragen tot de Natuurlijke Geschiedenis van den 

 Negerstam." The protuberant occiput of the Ethiopian is also exhibited in 



* " This tribe," writes a" valued correspondent, Mr. Geo. Gibbs, " is said to number 

 1,200 souls, and to be a decidedly pastoral people, having in their possession at the pre- 

 sent time (July, 1857), 60,000 horses, and 350,000 sheep. They can bring 2500 war- 

 riors into the field at one time. Their skulls are exceedingly difficult to procure, on 

 account of their habit of stowing the dead away in hidden places." 



t "These Indians," says Mr. Gibbs, " get their name from the Spanish word pugblo, 

 because they live in little towns or villages, cultivating the soil in the neighborhood of 

 the same. It is said that New Mexico boasts of twenty-seven of these pueblos at the 

 present time, differing in population from 40 to 2,500 souls. Some of the principal 

 puoblos are named Pueblo of Taos, Zuni, Laguna, San Felipe, Santa Domingo, Sandia, 

 Isleta, and Acoma. With but few exceptions, the inhabitanis speak different languages, 

 though all of ihem use the Spanish. Nominally they are Catholics, having chapels in 

 their midst, yet they continue to worship Montezuma (whom they believe to be residing 

 in the sun), day and night, by means of never ceasing religious dances." 



I860.] 29 




414 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



table 7 of Dr. Lucae's " Organischen Formenlehre, " a work containing many 

 interesting craniographic details. 

 From the foregoing facts we may conclude : — 



1. That the form of the human occiput is not constant. On the contrary, 

 it varies continually in the different races and tribes of men. It varies, also, 

 to a greater or less extent, among the individuals of the same race or tribe. 



2. That the different occipital forms may be divided into five classes or 

 groups, which are reducible, howevei-, to three. These are, 1st. The pro- 

 tuberant or pi'ominent occiput, with the tipper or parietal half somewhat 

 flattened, so as to present an inclined or shelving appearance. (See p. 399.) 

 2d. The vertically flattened. 3d. The inferiorly flattened or compressed, in 

 which the basal portion of the occiput slants upwards and backwards, as is 

 shown in a strongly marked degree, in the Sandwich Islander head, fig. 69, 

 on page 340 of "Indigenous Races of the Earth." 4th. The round. And 

 ijth. The globular. As the last two merge more or less into each other, and 

 as the third form may be regarded as, in many instances, a modification of 

 the second, these five forms may, with greater simplicity, be thrown into three 

 groups, viz. : — 1st. The prominent and oval, or superiorly inclined. 2d. The 

 perpendicularly flattened. And 3d. The more or less round or globular. 



3. That to the first of these groups belong the Norwegians, Swedes, and 

 some other Scandinavians; the Frisians and Batavians,* among the low 

 Germans ; the Anglo-Saxons and Anglo-Americans, the form of the occiput in 

 these being between that of the Swedes and Germans ; the Celtic Irish, and 

 some tribes of the ancient Britons ; the Phoenicians, Circassians, Armenians, 

 Affghans, Baluchi ; some of the Egyptians and Arabs, the Fellahs, Abys- 

 sinians, and Guanches of the Canary Isles ; some of the Hindoos and Chinese ; 

 the Loo-Chooans, certain Malays ; the Eskimos, Kamskatkans, Reindeer Tnn- 

 gus, Icelanders, Tchuktchi, Unalaschkans, some of the Kanakas, Tahitians, 

 and others of the Sandwich Islands, Marquesans, of Nukahivah, New 

 Zealanders, Feejeeans, and most of the African tribes. Among the aboriginal 

 Americans, this form is exhibited by the Arickarees, Assinaboins, Cherokees, 

 Chippeways ; some of the Kootenays, Creeks, and Dacotas ; by the Hurons, 

 and probably the Illinois ; by some of the Iroquois and most of the Lenapes ; 

 by the Mandans, Minetaris, Menominees, Miamis, Mohawks, and most of the 

 Narragansetts, the Naticks, some of the Osages, Ottawatomies. Pawnees, and 

 Sauks ; by most of the Seminoles, by the Shawnees, Shoshone, Upsarookas, 

 Califoruians, Cayugas, Cheyennes, Choctaws, Massasaugas, Mingos, Naum- 

 keags, Mayas of Central America ; by some of the Araucanians, the Charibs, 

 Patagonians, Brazilians, Aymaras, and by some of the ancient Mound Builders, 

 Peruvians, and Mexicans. 



In the kumbekephalic variety of skulls, this form of occiput is often very 

 much exaggerated, as is seen in certain ancient Cimbrian, Ostrogoth, and Bur- 

 gundian heads ; in some Egyptians and Celtic Irish, and in one Creek Indian 

 skull. 



4. That of the second form of occiput, or that in which the hind-head is 

 more or less vertically flattened, we find examples in some of the ancient in- 

 habitants of Scandinavia ; the Lapps, Samoiedes, Iberians, or Basques of the 

 Pyrenees ; the ancient Pelasgi ; Cossacks, Hungarians, Candaharians, some 

 Arabs ; one Chinese, the Siamese, some Malays and Javanese ; certain tribes 

 of the Transgangetic, or Indo-Chinese Peninsula, and occasionally among 

 the Tahitians. To this group belong, also, the skulls of Chetimache, Natchez, 

 Otoe, Kenehawha, Oneida, Seneca, and Puelche Indians ; likewise a portion 

 of the Kootenays, Lenapes, Miamis, Osages, Ottawas, Pottawatomies, 

 Shoshones, Araucanians, Peruvians, and the majority of the Mound Builders. 



Examples of the inferiorly flattened modification of, or deviation from this 

 type, are found in some of the Malays, Polynesians, &c. 



* See Catalogus Craniorum Diversarum Gentium qus CoUegit, J. Van der Hoeven, p. 14. 



[Sept. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 415 



5. That the tMrd form, in -which the occiput is full and rounded, or 

 globular, comprises the Danes, Finns, Esthonians ; the short-headed Germans, 

 whose crania, in general conformation, occupy a place between those of the 

 Swedes and Finns ; the Dutch, some tribes of the ancient Britons ; the Sclaves, 

 Turks, Greeks, Romans, Etruscans, Persians, ancient Assyrians, some of the 

 Egyptians, Hebrews, Copts, Hindoos ; some of the Chinese, Japanese, Bur- 

 mese, Malays ; the Kalmucks, Burats, and some of the Kanakas. To this 

 group belong, of the American Indians, the Ottigamies, Penobscots, Winne- 

 bagos, Yamasees, Chemasyans, Euchees, Nanticokes, Pocassets, Quinni- 

 piacks, or Mohegans, and a portion of the Cheyennes, Creeks, Dacotas, 

 Iroquois, Narragansetts, Pawnees, Pottawatomies, Sauks, Seminoles, Arauca- 

 nians, Peruvians, and Mound Builders. 



6. That the shelving or oval form of the occiput is most common in the 

 dolichokephalic heads, and as these predominate in number over the brachy- 

 kephalic, it is the most common form of all. Next comes the round or 

 globular, and lastly the vertically flat — both these forms prevailing in the 

 brachykephalae. 



7. That there is a marked tendency of these forms to graduate into each 

 other, more or less insensibly. None of these forms can be said to belong 

 exclusively to any race or tribe. None of them, therefore, can be regarded as 

 strictly typical, for, a character or form, to be truly typical, should be ex- 

 clusive and constant. 



Dr. Fislier announced the cleatli of A. M. C. Dumeril, a correspon- 

 dent of the Academy, at Paris. 



October '2nd. 

 Mr. Lea, President, in the Chair. 



Forty members present. 



The following papers were presented for publication : 



'• Descriptions of New Corals in the Museum of the Academy of 

 Natural Sciences, by G-eorge H. Horn." 



'■'■ The Reptilia of the North Pacific Exploring Expedition, Capts. 

 Ringgold and Rodgers, mostly collected by AYilliam Stimpson, by 

 Edward Hallowell, M. D., edited by Edward D. Cope." 



'•Systematic Catalogue, with Synonymy, &c., of Jurassic, Cretaceous 

 and Tertiary Fossils, collected in Nebraska, b}^ the Exploring Expedi- 

 tions under the command of Lieut. Gr. K. Warren, of the U. S. Topog. 

 Engineers, by F. B. Meek and F. V. Hayden, M. D. 



" Catalogue of Carboniferous Plants in the Museum of the Academy 

 of Natural Sciences, with corrections in synonymy, descriptions of new 

 species, &c., by Horatio C. Wood, Jr." 



'■ New Unionidre of the Ll"nited States and Northern Mexico, by 

 Isaac Lea." 



And were referred to Committees. 



Mr. Cassin offered the following resolutions, which were adopted : 



Resolved, That the thanks of the Academy be presented to Mrs. Peter A. 

 Browne, for the interesting and valuable collection of the hair of man, and of 

 inferior animals, made by her late husband, an esteemed member of this 

 Academy, and presented by her this evening. 



Resolved, That the right of giving orders for admission, and of endorsing 

 tickets of admission to the Museum of this Academy on public days, be 



I860.] 




416 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



hereby conferred on Mrs. Peter A. Browne, and that she and her immediate 

 family he invited and authorized to visit the Hall and Library of this Academy 

 whenever they think proper. 



October ^th. 

 Mr. AsHMEAD in the Chair. 



Thirty members present. 



Dr. Leidy directed attention to three broken fossil teeth, which had been 

 sent to him for examination by Dr. Shnmard. They were from Washing- 

 ton Co., Texas, and indicated a miocene formation like that of Nebraska, 

 which has proved to be so rich in remains of extinct mammalia. Two of the 

 specimens belonged to a species of Hippotherium ; the other appeared to 

 indicate a new equine genus, different from any of those obtained by Dr. 

 Hayden on the Niobrara River. 



October IQth. 

 Vice-President Bridges in the Chair. 



Forty-two members present. 



The following papers were presented for publication : 



" Descriptions of new species of Apodal Fishes in the 3Iuseum of 

 the Academy of Natural Sciences, by Charles C. Abbott." 



•• Descriptions of two new species of Pimelodus from Kansas, by 

 Charles C. Abbott." 



'• Descriptions of four new species of North American Cyprinidae, 

 by Charles C Abbott." 



" Description of a new species of Exocetus from Chili, by Charles 

 C. Abbott. 



And were referred to a Committee. 



Dr. Leidy directed attention to three skulls, of which two belonged to the 

 existing Dicotyles torquatus and D. labiatus; and the third, to the 

 extinct D. compressus. Dr. L. then exhibited the fore part of the skull 

 of another extinct Peccary, which had been sent to him for examination 

 by Dr. David D. Owen, who states the specimen was found in digging a well, 

 in Gibson Co., Indiana, some 30 or 40 feet below the surface. 



October 2Zd. 

 Mr. Lea, President, in the Chair. 



Thirty-seven members present. 



The following papers were presented for publication : 



'■ Observations on American Tiueina, by H. Gr. Stainton, of London, 

 England." 



'• Descriptions of new Carboniferous Fossils from Illinois and other 

 Western States, by F. B. 3Ieek and A. H. Worthen." 



'• The Stinging or Mound Ant, Myrmica (Atta) molifaciens, by 

 S. B. Buckley." 



[Oct. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 417 



"Descriptions of several new species of Plants, by S. B. Buckley." 

 '• Descriptions of new species of Tertiary and Cretaceous Fossils, by 

 William M. Gabb." 

 And were referred to Committees. 



Octoher 30^7t. 

 Mr. Lea, President, in the Chair. 



Thirty seven members present. 



The Committee on the paper of Mr. Wm. M, Grabb, '• Description^' 

 of new species of Tertiary and Cretaceous Fossils," reported in favor 

 of its publication in the Journal of the Academy. 



On report of the respective Committees, the following papers were 

 ordered to be published in the Proceedings : 



Systematic Catalogue, with Synonyma, &c., of Jurassic, Cretaceous and 

 Tertiary Fossils collected in Nebraska, by the Exploring Expeditions under 

 the command of Lieut. G. K. Warren, of U. S. Topographical Engineers. 



BY r. B. MEEK AND P. V. HAYDEN. 



Of the 276 species and varieties enumerated in the following catalogue, 25 are 

 from Jurassic rocks, 194 from Cretaceous, and the remaining 57 from Tertiary- 

 strata. None of the Jurassic species are known to occur in this country east 

 of the Black Hills, or south of the middle of eastern Utah, though some of 

 them will probably be found in New Mexico. One species is believed to be 

 identical with Osfrea calceola of Roemer from the Jurassic rocks of Germany, 

 and another {Ammonites cordiformis) is probably not distinct fi'om A. cordatus, 

 Sowerby, which occurs in the Jurassic series of England, France, Russia, &c. 

 Nearly all the other Jurassic species mentioned in the list are' closely allied 

 to forms common in the lower part of that system (the Lower Oolite and 

 Lias) in the old world, and several of them may prove identical on farther com- 

 parison. 



Of the 194 Cretaceous species the following seven are common to the 

 Nebraska and New Jersey beds viz. — Nautilus Dekayi, Ammonitei placenta, 

 A. complexui*, A. lobatus*, Scaphites Conradi, Baculites ovaius, and Gryphoea 

 vesicularis ? ; and the following five species are probably common to Nebraska 

 and foreign localities, viz. — Nautilus Dekayi, Inoceramus problematicus, Gry- 

 phcea vesicularis, Cucullcea fibrosa, and Micorbacia coranula. 



The 57 Tertiary species are believed to be all distinct from foreign forms, and 

 none of them have yet been found in this country east of Nebraska, or south 

 of north eastern Utah. They are all, so far as known, extinct species. 



JURASSIC SPECIES. 



CEPHALOPODA. 



BELEMXITID.E. 



1. Belemaites dens us, Meek & Haydca, March 1853, Pr. Acad. Nat. Sci. 

 Phila. 58. 



* We are indebted to Mr. Wm. M. Gabb. of Philada. for information in regard to the 

 occurence of these two species in New Jersey. 



18G0,] 




418 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



AMMONITID^. 



2. Ammonites c o r d i f o r m i s, M. & H. March 1858, Pr. Acad. Nat. Sci. 57. 



3. Ammonites Henry i, M. &H. " " " 57. 



GASTEROPODA. 

 VALVATID^. 



4. *Valvata? scabrida, Meek & Hayden (Manuscript). 



LIMN^ID^. 



5. *Planorbis v e t e r n u s, Meek & Hayden (Manuscript). 



CONCHIFERA. 

 ANATINID^. 



6. Thracia? sublsevis, M. & H. May 18G0, Pr. Acad. Nat. Sci. Pliila. 182. 



7. Thracia? a r c u a t a, M. & H. " " " 182. 

 3. Myacites Neb r asc e n s i s, M. & H. " " 182. 



9. jMj'acites s u b e 1 1 i p t i c u s, M. & H. 



Panopa {Myacites) suhelliptka, M. & H. March 1858, Pr. Acad. Nat. Sci. 

 Phila. 52. 



10. Pholadomya h n m i 1 i s, M. & H. March 1858, Pr. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 52. 



CARDIAD^. 



11. Cardium [Protocardum ?] Shumardi, M. &. H. May 1860, Pr. Acad. 



Nat. Sci. Phila. 182. 



12. Tancredia Warrena na, M. &. H. May 1860, Pr. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 183. 



13. Tancredia? sequilateralis, '' '• " 183. 



ASTARTID^. 



14. Astarte fragili s, M. & H. May 1860, Pr. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila, 183. 



15. Astarte inornat a, M. &. H. " '« " 183. 



UNIONID^. 



16. *Unio n u calls, M. & H. March 1858, Pr. Acad. Nat. Sci. Pliila. 52. 



MYTILID^. 



IT. Modiola pertenuis, Meek & Hayden. 



Myiilus -pertenuis, M. & H. Marcl* 1858, Pr. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 51. 



AV1CULIDJ3. 



18. Monotis c u r t a, Hall sp. 



Avicula curia, Hall, 1852, Capt. Stansbury's Report Exp. to Gt. Salt Lake, 



412, pi. 2, fig. 1, a and b. 

 Avicula {Monotis,) tenuicosiata M. & H. March 1858, Pr. Acad. Nat. Sci, 50. 



TRIGONIAD.^. 



10. Trigonia C o n r a d i, M. & H. May 1860, Pr. Acad. Nat, Sci. Phila. 183. 



*These three species are only ranged provisionally in the Jurassic list, 



[Oct. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 419 



ARCADE. 



20. Grammatodon inornatus, Meek <fe Hayden. 



Area {Cuculloea) inornata, M. & H. March 1858, Pr. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 51. 



PECTENID^. 



21. Pecten e x t e n u a t u s, M, & H. May 1860, Pr. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 184. 



OSTREAD^. 



22. Ostrea ^Gryphsea?) c a 1 c e a 1 a, Rcemer, ii. 25, t. 18, fig. 19. 



BRACHIOPODA. 



LINGULID^. 



23. Lingula brevirostra, M. & H. March 1858, Pr. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 50. 



24. Rbynchonella ? 



RADIATA. 



E CHINODERMA TA. 



PENTACRINID^. 



25. Pentacrinus asteriscus, M. &H. Mar. 1858, Pr. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 43. 



CRETACEOUS SPECIES. 



AETICULATA. 



ANNELIDA. 



TUBICOLA. 



26. Serpula ? t e n u i c a r i n a t a, M. & H. Mayl857, Pr. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phil. 134. 



MOLLUSCA. 



CEPHALOPODA. 

 TEUTHID^. 



27. Pbylloteuthis subovatus, M. & H. MaylSGO, Pr. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phil. 175. 



BELEMNITID^. 



28. Belemnitella b u 1 b o s a, M. & H. March 1856, Pr. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 70. 



NAUTILID^. 



29. Nautilus Dekayi. Morton, 1834, Synop. Or. Rem. 33, pi. 8, fig. 4, and 



pi. 13, fig. 4. 



AMMONITID^. 



30. *Ammonites percarinatus. Hall & Meek, 1854, Mem. Am. Acad. Arts 



and Sci. Boston, v. N. S. pi. iv. fig. 2. 



*This species was first figured and described from young, or immature specimens, 

 which differ remarkably from the adult. We have subsequently 8( en individuals of 

 various sizes, which lead ns to think it will probably prove to be identical y^iih A.Woolgari . 

 of Mantell, from the English chalk. 



I860.] 




420 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



31. Amraoaites ver m ilio n e n s is, M. & H. May 1860, Pr. Acad. Nat. Sci. 



Phila. 177. 



32. Ammonites complexis, Hall & Meek, 1854, Mem. Am. Arts and Sci. 



Boston, V. N. S. 394, pi. iv. fig. 1. 



33. Ammonites Halli, M. & H. March 1856, Pr. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 10. 



34. Ammonites placenta, Dekay, 1827, New York Lye. Nat. ii. pi. 5, fig. 2. 

 (Non A. placenta Leckenby, 1858.) 



35. Ammonites placenta, var. intercalaris, M. & H. Pr. Acad.Nat. Sci. Phil.177. 



36. Ammonites lobatus, Tuoraey, 1854, Pr. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. vii. 168, 

 Ammo'iites lenlicularis, Owen, 1852 Report Iowa, VViscon. and Mia. tab. 8. 



fig. 5 (non A. lenticularis of Phillips, 1825). 



37. Scaphites Man d an en s i s, Morton sp. 



Ammonites Mandanensis, Morton, 1841, Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. viii. 208, 



pi. 10, fig. 2. 

 Scaphites Mandanensis, Jleek & Hayden, Nov. 1836, Pr. Acad. Nat. Sci. 



Phila. 281. 



38. Scaphites abyssinus, Morton sp. 



Scaphites Jlandancnsisl Meek & Hayden, Nov. 1336, Pr. Acad. Nat. Sci. 

 Phila. 281. 



39. Scaphites Cheyennensis, Owen sp. 



Ammonites Nehrascensis,Ovren, 1852. ReportWiscon.IowaandMin.pl. 7, fig. 2. 

 Ammonites Cheyennensis, Ovien, '• " " pi. 8, fig. 2. 



Ammonites Moreauensis, Oy» en, " " " pi. 8, fig. 2. 



Scaphites Conradi (pars), Meek & Hayden, Nov. 1856, Pr. Acad. Nat. Sci. 

 Phila. 281. 



40. Scaphites Conradi, Morton sp. 



Ammonites Conradi, Morton, 1834, Synop. Org. Rem. 39, pi. 16, fig. 1, 2, 3. 

 Ammonites Dana, d'Orbigny, 1S50, Prodrom. de Palaioat. ii. 213. 

 Scaphites Conradi, d'Orbigny, 1850, " " " 214. 



41. Scaphites Conradi, var. gulosus, Morton sp. 



Ammonites va,r. ffulosus, Morton, 1854, Synopsis Org. Rem. 39. pi. xvi. fig. 2. 



42. Scaphites N i c o 11 e t i i, Morton sp. 



Ammonites NicolleHi, Morton, 1841, Jour. Ac. Nat. Sci. Phila. viii. pi. 10, fig. 3. 

 Scaphites compnmus [.^], Owen, Report Wiscon. Iowa and Min. tab. 7, fig. 4. 

 >S'cff;?/«'to McoZZeizV, Meek & Hayden, Nov. 1856, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 

 281. 



43. Scaphites (Ammonites?) aodosus, Owen, 1852, Report Iowa, Wiscon. 



and Min. 581, tab. 8, fig. 4. 



44. Scaphites n dos u 3 var. plenus. M. & H. May 1860, Pr. Acad. Nat. Sci. 



Phila. 177. 



45. Scaphites n o d o s u s var. b r e v i s. Meek & Hayden (MSS. ) 



46. Scaphites n o do s u s var. qua d rangul u s. Meek & Hayden (MSS.) 



47. Scaphites aodosus var. e x i 11 s. Meek & Hayden. 



48. Scaphites 1 a r v ae f o r m i s, M. & H. March 1856, Pr. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phil. 58. 



49. Scaphites Warreni, M. & H. May 1860, Pr. Acad.Nat. Sci. Phila. 177. 



50. Ancyloceras? uncus, Meek & Hayden. 



Ancyloceras {Ilamites) uncus, M. & H. Pr. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 56. 



[Oct. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 421 



51. Helicoceras Mortoni, Hall & Meek, sp. 



Samites Mortoni, Hall & Meek, 1854, Mem. Am. Acad. Arts and Sci. v. N. S. 



pi. iv. fig. 3. 

 Helicoceras tenuicostatum,M. &. H.March 1858, Pr. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 56. 



52. Helicoceras cochleatum, Meek & Hayden. 



Turrilites {Helicoceras) cochleatus, M. & H. March 1853, Pr. Acad. Nat. Sci. 



Phila. 55. 

 Helicoceras cochleatum. M.& H.May 1860, Pr. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 185. 



53. Helicoceras Nebrascense, Meek & Hayden. 



Ancyloceras? Nebrascensis, M. & H. March 1856, Pr. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 71. 

 TurrilitesNebrascensis,lA.&E.'!iioY.lSo6, " " 280. 



54. Helicoceras tor turn, M. &H. March 1858, " " 54. 



55. Helicoceras Cheyennense, Meek & Hayden, 



Ancyloceras ? Cheyennense, M. & H. March 1S56, Pr. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 71. 

 Turrilites Cheyennensis,U.hE..'^o\.l9:oQ, " " 280. 



56. Helicoceras an gulatum, M.& H.May 1860, " " 176. 



57. Helicoceras umbilicatum, Meek & Hayden. 



Turrilites? umbilicatus, M. & H. March 1833, Pr. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 56. 

 Helicoceras umbilicatum, 'SI. &E.}laj I860. " " 185. 



58. Ptychoceras Mortoni, M,&H. May 1857, " " 134. 



59. Baculites o vat us, Say, Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. vi. pV v. fig. 5, 6. 



60. Baculites gran dls, Hall & Meek, 1854, Mem. Am. Acad. Arts and Sci. 



Boston, V. N. S. 402. 



61. Baculites asperoides, Meek & Hayden (MSS.) 



62. Baculites compressus, Say, Am. Jour. Sci. ii. 41. 



63. Aptychus Cheyennensis, Meek & Hayden (MSS.) 



64. Aptychus fragilis, Meek & Hayden (MSS.) 



GASTJSROFOHA. 

 MURICIDiE. 



65. Fusus (Neptunea) D a k o t e n s i s, M. & H. March 1856, Pr. Acad. Nat. Sci. 



Phila. 65. 



66. Fusus (Pyrifusus?) Newberry i, M. &H. March 1857, Pr. Acad. Nat. Sci, 



Phila. 66. 



67. Fusus sub turrit us, M. & H. May 1857, Pr. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 139. 



68. Fusus intertextus, M. & H. " " " 139- 



69. Fusus? flexico status, M.&H. March 1856, " " 66- 



70. Fusus Vaugh an i, M. & H. May 1857, " " 139. 



71. *Fusus vinculu m, Hall & Meek sp. 



Buccinum? vinculum, H. & M. Mem.Acad. Sci. and Arts, Bos.v.N.S. pi. 3, fig. 5. 

 Fusus vinculum, M. & H. May 1860, Pr. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 183. 



72. Fusus Scar bo rough i, M.&. H.May 1857, " " 139. 



*It is not improbable that this species may be found to possess affinities to some section 

 of (he genus Tritonium Link. It is certainly not a true Buccinum. 



1860.J 




422 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



73. Fiisus C u 1 b e r 1 3 D i, M. & H. March 1856, Pr. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 66. 

 Fusus Haydeni, Evans & Shumard, 1857, Traas. Acad. Sci. St. Louis, 41. 



74. Fusus Galpinanus, M. &H. March 1856, Pr. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 65. 



75. Fusus? tenuilineatu s, Hall & Meek, 1854, Mem. Am. Acad. Arts and 



Sci. Boston, v. N. S. 394, pi. 3, fig. 9. 



76. Busycon B a i r d i, Meek & Hayden. 



Pyrula Bairdi, M. & H. March 1856, Pr. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 66. 

 Busyco7i Bairdi, M. & H. June 1856, " " 126. 



TURRITID^. 



77. Turris minor, Evans & Shumard sp. 



Pleurotoma minor, E. & S. 1857, Trans. Acad. Sci. St. Louis, i. 41. 



78. Turris contortus. Meek & Hayden. 



Fusus contorlm, M. & H. March 1856, Pr. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 65. 

 Pleurotoma contorta, M. & H. May 1860, " " 183. 



BUCCINID..E. 



79. Buccinum constrictum, Hall & Meek sp. 



Fusus constrictum, H. & M. Mem. Am, Acad. Arts and Sci. Boston, v. 391, 

 pi. 3, fig. 7. 



80. Pseudobuccinum Nebrascense, Meek & Hayden. 



Buccinum? Nebrascense, M. & H. March 1856, Pr. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 67. 

 Pseudobuccinuri Nebrascense, M, k^. lH&jliol, " " 140. 



FASCIOLARIAD^. 



81. Fasciolaria? cretacea, M. & H. March 1856, Pr. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 66. 



82. Fasciolaria b u c c i n o i d e s, M. & H. " " " 67. 



NATICID^. 



83. Natica (Lunatia) subcrassa, M.& H. April 1856, Pr. Ac. Nat. Sci. Phil. 87. 



84. Natica(Lunatia) Moreauensis, M.&H. Mar. 1856, " " 64. 



85. Natica (Lunatia) occidental is, M.&H. " " " 64. 



86. Amauropsis p a 1 u d i n re f o r m i s, Hall & Meek. sp. 



Natica paludincpformis, H. & M. 1854, Mem. Am. Sci. and Arts, Boston, v. 



389, pi. 3, fig. 3. 

 Amauropsis palludinmformis, M. & H, May 1860, Pr. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 185. 



SCALID^. 



87. Scala (Acirsa') cerithif ormi s, Meek & Hayden. 



Scalaria cerithiformis, M. & H. March 1856, Pr. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 63. 

 Turbonilla cerithiformis, M. & H. May 1860, " " 185. 



CERITHIOPSID^. 



38. Cerithiopsis Moreanensis, Meek & Hayden. 



Turritella Moreauensis, M. & H. March 1856, Pr. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 70. 

 Cerithiopsis Moreauensis, M. & H. May 1860, " " 185. 



STROMBID^. 



39. Gladius? Cheyennensis, Meek & Hayden. 



Rostellaria fusiformis, H. & M. 1854, Mem. Acad. Sci. and Arts, Boston, v. 



N S. pi. 3,"fij?. 10. 

 (Non E. fusiformis, Pictet & Rous, 1848.) 



[Oct. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 423 



APORRHAID^. 



30. Aporrhais Americana, Evans & Shumard sp. 



Rostellaria Americana, E. & S. 1857, Trans. St. Louis Acad. Sci. i. 42. 



91. Aporrhais Nebrascensis, Evans & Shumard, sp. 



Rostellaria Nebrascensis, E. & S. Aug. 1854, Pr. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 164. 



92. Aporrhais suble vat a, M. & H. May 1860, " " 178, 



93. Aporrhais biangulata, Meek & Hayden, 



Rostellaria hiangulata, M. & H. March 1856, Pr. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 65. 

 Aporrhais hiangulata^ M. & H. May 1860, " «' 185. 



94. Aporrhais par va, M. & H.' " " " 178. 



LITORINID^. 



95. Fossar? Nebrascensis, Meek & Hayden. 



Natica amhigua, M. & H. March 1856, Pr. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 66. 

 (Non Fossar ambiguus, Lin. sp.) 



NERITOPSID./E. 



96. Neritopsis? Tuomeyana, Meek & Hayden. 



Natica Tuomeyana, M. & H. Nov. 1856, Pr. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 270. 



TROCHID^. 



97. Margarita Nebrascensis, Meek & Hayden. 



Turbo Nebrascensis, M. & H. March 1856, Pr. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 64. 

 Margarita Nebrascensis, M & H. May 1860, " " 185. 



'.»8. *Margaritella flexistriata, Evans & Shumard sp. 



Solarium flexistriatum, E. & S. Aug. 1854, Pr. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 163. 



DENTALIAD^. 



1)9. Dentalium gracile, H. & M. 1854, Mem. Am. Acad. Arts, and Sci. Boston, 

 V. N. S. pi. 3, fig. 11. 



100. Dentalium pauperculum, M. & H. May 1860, Pr. Acad. Nat. Sci. 



Phila. 178. 



TECTURID^. 



101. Tectura occi d en tali s. Hall & Meek, sp. 



Capulus occidentalis, H. & M. 1854, Mem. Am. Acad. Sci. and Arts, Boston, v. 

 N. S. p. 385, fig. 13. 



102. Tectura? parva. Meek & Hayden (manuscript.) 



103. Tectura? papillata, Meek & Hayden. 



Capuhis fragilis, M. & H. March 1856, Pr. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 68. 

 (Non Tectura fragilis. Gray & Gamard.) 



104. Anisomyon borealis, Morton sp. 



Hipponyx borealis, Morton. 1842, Jour. Ac. Nat. Sci. Phila. vlli. pi. 11. fig. 6. 

 Helcion carinatus, M. & H. March 1856, Pr. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 68. 

 Anisomyon borealis, M. & H. Jan. 1860, Am. Jour. Sci. xxviii. 2d ser. 35. 



105. Anisomyon Shumard!, Meek & Hayden (manuscript). 



* We propose to establish a new genus, under the name of Margaritella, for the 

 reception of many pearly Jurassic and Cretaceous shells usually referred to Solarium. 

 It is evident from ihe pearly lustre, and other characters of these fossil shells, that they 

 do not even belong to ihe same family as our recent typical species of the genus Archi- 

 tec'.onica (= Solarium.) The above species may be regarded as the type of the genus. 



I860.] 




424 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



103. AnisomyoQ patellif ormis, Meek & Hayden. 



JTelcion patelliformis, M. & H, March 1856, Pr. Acad. Nat. Sci. Pliila. 68. 

 Anisomi/on patelliformis, M. & H. Jan. 1860, Am. Jour. Sci. xsviii. 2d. ser. 

 35, pi. 1. 



107. Anisomyoa snbovatus, Meek & Hayden. 



Helcion subovatus, M. & H. March 1856, Pr. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 68. 

 Anisomyon subovatus, M. &.H. Jan. 1860, Am. Jo.ir. Sci. xsviii. 2d ser. 35. 



108. Anisonmyon alveolatus. Meek & Hayden. 



Helcion alveolatus, M. & H. March 1?56, Pr. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 68. 

 Ansiomyon alveolatus, M. & H.Jan. 1860, Am. Jour. Sci. xxxviii. 2d ser. 35. 



109. Anisomyoa s exsulcat us, Meek & Hayden. 



Helcion sezsulcatus, M. & H. March 1856, Pr. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 68. 

 Anisomyon sezsulcatus, M. & H. Jan. 1860, Am. Jour. Sci. xxxviii. 2d ser. 35 



SOLIDULID^. 



110. Solidula su b ellip t i c a, Meek & Hayden. 



Acteon subelliplica, M. & H. March 1856, Pr. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 63. 

 Solidulus (Aeieonina ?) subelliptica, M. & H. May 1860, " " 185. 



111. Solidula (Acteonina ?) attenuata, Meek & Hayden. 



Acteon (solidulus) attenuata, M. & H. Mar, 1858, Pr. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 54. 

 Solidulus attenuatus, M. & H. May I860, " " 1S5. 



112. Cinulia cone inn a, Hall & Meek, sp. 



Acteon concinna, H. & M. 1854, Mem. Am. Acad. Arts and Sci. Boston, v. 



N. S. pi. 3, fig. 4. 

 Avellana subglobosa, M. & H. March 1856, Pr. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 64. 



BULLIDiE. 



113. Bulla c c i d e n t a 1 i s, M. & H. Marcli 1856, Pr. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 69. 



114. Bulla minor, M. &H. " " " 69. 



115. Bulla volvaria, M. &H. " " " 69. 



116. Bulla speciosa, Meek & Hayden. 



Bulla subcylindrica, M. & H. Nov. 1856, Pr. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 270. 



(Non B. subcylindrica, d'Orbigny, 1847). ' 



Bulla speciosa, M. &H. May 1860, Pr. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 185. 



CYLICHNIDJE. 



117. Cylichna sci tula, M. & H. May I860, Pr. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 178. 



CONCHIFERA. 

 PHOLADID^. 



118. Pholas? Stimpsoni, Meek & Hayden. 



Xylophaga Stimpsoni, M. & H. May 1857, Pr. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 141. 



119. Pholas (Martesia) cuneata,M.&H. Mar. 1858, " " 53. 



120. Xylophaga el egan tula, M. & H. May 1857, " " 141. 



121. Teredo selliformis, M. & H. May 1860, " " 178. 



122. Teredo glob osa, M.& H.March 1858, * " " 53. 



SAXICAVID^. 



123. Panopaea o c c i d e n t a 1 i s, M. & H. Nov. 1856, Pr. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phil. 270. 



[Oct. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 425 



SOLENID^. 



124:. Pharella? Dako tensis, Meek & Hayden. 



Solen? Bakotemis, M. & H. May 1857, Pr. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 242. 



CORBULIDJE. 



125. Corbula crassimarginata, Meek & Haydea (MSS.) 



126. Corbula inornata, M. & H. March 1858, Pr. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 52. 



127. Corbulamella gregarea, Meek & Hayden. 



Corbula? gregarea, M. & H. April 1856, Pr. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 84. 

 Corbulamella gregarea, M. & R. Hay 1851 , " '• 143. 



1 23, Neaera ventricosa, Meek & Hayden. 



Corbula ventricosa, M. & H. April. 1856, Pr. Acad, Nat. Sci. Phila. 83. 

 Neczra ventricosa, M. & H. May 1860, " " 183, 



129. Neaera Moreauensis, Meek & Hayden. 



Corbula Moreauensis, M. & H. Ap, 1856, Pr. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila, 83, 

 Necera Moreauensis, M. & H. May 1860, Pr. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 185. 



AXATINID^. 



1?.0. Thracia subtortuosa, Meek & Hayden. 



Tellina subtortuosa, M. & H. Nor. 1856, Pr. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 272. 



Vil. Thracia gracilis, Meek & Hayden. 



Tellina gracilis, M. & H. April 1855, Pr. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 82. 

 Tkracial gracilis, M. & H. Nov. 1856, •• " 284. 



; :2. Thracia Pro uti. Meek & Hayden. 



Tellina Prouti, M. & H. April 1856, Pr. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 85. 



133. Pholadomya (?) fibrosa, Meek & Hayden. 



Avicula (?) fibrosa, M. & H., Ap. 1856, Pr. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 86. 

 Pholadomya fibrosa, M. & H., Nov. 1856, " " " 283. 



134. Pholadomya subventricosa,M. & H., May, 1857, Pr. Acad. Nat. 



Phila. 142. 



135. Pholadomya u n d a t a , M. & H., Ap. 1856, Pr. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 81 . 



MACTRID^. 



136. Mactra (Trigonella ?) f o r m o s a , Meek & Hayden, Nov. 1856, Pr. Ac. 



Nat. Sci. Phila. 271. 



137. Mactra (Trigonella ?) alt a, M. & H., Nov. 1856, Pr. Acad. Nat. Sci. 



Phila. 271. 



138. Mactra (Trigonella ?) s i o u x e n s i s , M. & H. May, 1860, Pr. Acad. Nat. 



Sci. Phila. 179. 



13'). Mactra (Trigonella?) War re nan a, M. & H., Nov. 1856, Pr. Acad. 

 Nat. Sci. Phila. 281. 



140. Mactra (Trigonella?) gracilis, M. & H., May, 1860, Pr. Acad. Nat. 



Sci. Phila. 179. 



TELLINID^. 



141. Tellina equ Hater a lis, Meek & Hayden, Ap. 1856, Pr. Acad. Nat. 



Sci. Phila. 82. 



142. Tellina scitula, M. & H., Ap. 1856, Pr. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 82. 



143. Tellina (?) formos a, M.&H., May 1860, Pr. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 179. 

 I860.] 




426 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



144. Tellina (?) subelliptica, M. & H., Ap. 1856, Pr. Acad. Nat. Sci. 



Phila. 83. 



145. Tellina (?) Ch ej enn ensi s , M. & H., Ap. 1856, Pr. Acad. Nat. Sci. 



Phila. 82. 



VENERID^. 



146. Venus circularis. Meek & Hajden, Nov. 1856, Pr. Acad. Nat. Sci. 



Phila. 272. 



147. Meretris tenuis. Hall & Meek, sp. 



Cytherea tenuis, Hall & Meek, 1854, Mem. Am. Acad. Arts and Sci. 



Boston, V. N. S. 383, pi. 1, fig. 8. 

 Meretrix tenuis, M. & H., May 1860, Pr. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 185. 



148. Meretrix pellucida. Meek & Hayden. 



Cytherea pellucida, M. & H., Nov. 1856, Pr. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 272. 

 Meretrix lyellucida, M.. & R. M.a.y 1S60, " " " " 185. 



149. Meretrix D e w e y i , Meek & Hayden. 



Cytherea Deweyi, M. & H., Ap. 1856, Pr. Acad. Nat. Soi. Phila. 83. 

 Meretrix Deweyi,'M.&B.., U&y 1860, " " " " 185. 



150. Meretrix w e n a n a , Meek & Hayden. 



Cytherea Otvenana, M. & H., Nov. 1856, Pr. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 273. 

 Meretrix Owenana, M. & H., May 1860, " " " " 185. 



151. Meretrix orbiculata. Hall & Meek, sp. 



Cytherea orbiculata, Hall 3i Meek, 1854, Mem. Acad. Arts and Sci. Boston, 



V. N. S. pi. 1, fig. 7. , 

 Meretrix orbiculata, Meek & Hayden, May 1860, Pr. Acad. Nat. Sci. 



Phila, 185. 



CyPRINID>E. 



152. Cyprina are n area, Meek & Hayden, May 1857, Pr. Acad. Nat. Sci. 



Phila. 143. 



153. Cyprina subtumida, M. & H., May 1857, Pr. Acad. Nat. Sc-i. 



Phila. 144. 



154. Cyprina humilis, M. & H., May 1860, Pr. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 179. 



155. Cyprina o V a t a , M. & H., May 1857, Pr. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 144. 



CARDID.E. 



156. Bucardia ? Moreauensis, Meek & Hayden. 



Cyprina cordata, M. & H., May 1857, Pr. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 143. 

 (Non. B. cordata sp. Buckm.) 



157. Tancredia Americana, Meek & Hayden. 



Hettangia Americana, M. & H., Nov. 1856, Pr. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 274. 

 Toncrerfza ^werecana M. & H., May 1860, " " " 18.5. 



158. Cardium spe ci OS um, Meek & Hayden, Nov. 1856, Pr. Acad. Nat. 

 Phila. 274. 



159. Cardium rarum, Evans & Shumard, Trans. Acad. Nat. Sci. St. Louis, 



i. 39. 



160. Cardium subquadratum, E. &S., Trans. Acad. Nat. Sci. St. Louis, 



i. 39, 



LUCINIDiE. 



161. Lucina occidentalis, Morton, sp. 



Tellina occidentalis, Morton, 1842, Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. viii. pi. 

 11, fig. 3. 



[Oct. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 427 



Lucina occidental is, M. & H., Nov. 1856, Pr. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 272. 



162. Lucina subtindata, Hall & Meek, 1854, Mem. Am. Acad. Arts and Sci. 



Boston, V. N. S. pi. 1, fig. 6. 



163. Lucina veutricosa, Meek & Hayden, (MSS.) 



SOLEMYID^. 



164. Solemya subplicata, Meek & Hayden. 



Solen subplicata, M. & H., Pr. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. Ap. 1856, 82. 



ASTARTIDiE. 



165. Crassatella Evan si, Hall & Meek, 1854, Mem. Am. Acad. Arts and 



Sci. Boston, v. N. S. 383, pi. 1, fig. 9. 



166. Astarte gregaria, M. & H., Ap. 1856, Pr. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 84. 



MYTILID^. 



167. Mytilus subarcuatus, Meek & Hayden, Nov. 1856, Pr. Acad. Nat. 



Sci. Phila. 276. 



168. Modiola* Meekii, Evans & Shumard, sp. 



Mytilus Galpinianus, E. & S., Aug. 1854, Pr. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 164. 



169. Modiola attenuata, Meek & Hayden. 



Mytilus attenuatus, M. & H., Ap. 1856, Pr. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 86. 



AVICULID.^. 



170. Avicula linguiformis, Evans & Shumard, 1854, Pr. Acad. Nat. Sci. 



Phila. 163. 



171. Avicula subgibbos a. Meek & Hayden, May 18G0, Pr. Acad. Nat. Sci. 



Phila. 180. 



172. Avicula Nebrascana, Evans & Shumard, 1857, Trans. Acad. Sci. 



St. Louis, i. p. 38. 



173. Avicula Haydeni, Hall & Meek, 1854, Mem. Am. Acad. Sci. and Arts, 



Boston, V. N. S. 382, pi. 1, fig. 5. 



174. Gervillia subtortuosa, Meek & Havden, Nov. 1856, Pr. Acad. Nat. 



Sci. Phila. 276. 



175. Inoceramus pertenuis, Meek & Hayden, Nov. 1856, Pr. Acad. Nat. 



Sci. Phila. 276. 

 Inoceramus ventricosus, M. & H. March 1856, Pr. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. S7. 

 (Non I. ventricosus, Sowerby.) 



176. Inoceramus pertenuis, var. subdepressus. Meek & Hayden. 



177. Inoceramus subcompressus, Meek & Hayden, May 1860, Pr. Acad. 



Nat. Sci. Phila. 181. 



178. Inoceramus frag ills, Hall & Meek, 1854, Mem. Am. Acad. Arts and 



Sci. Boston, v. N. S. 388, pi. 2, fig. 6. 



179 . Inoceramus problematicus, Schlot. sp. ? 

 Mytilites problematicus Schlotheim, Petrefact. 312. 



Inoceramus mytiloides, Mantell, 1822, Geol. Sussex, pi. 27, fig. 3 and pi. 

 28, fig. 2. 



* The name ValseUa Scopoli may have to be adopted for this genus. 



I860.] 




428 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Inoceramus prohlematicus, d'Orbigny, 1843, Palseont. Franc, t. iii. 510, 

 pi. 406. 



180. Inoceramus p s eudo-my t iloides, Scliiel., 1855, ii. Pacif. Rail Road 



Rept. 108, pi. 3, fig. 8. 



181. Inoceramus aviculoides, M. & H. May 1860, Pr. Acad. Nat. Sci. 



Phila. 181. 



182. Inoceramus sublaevis, HaU & Meek, 1854, Mem. Acad. Arts and Sci. 



V. N. S. 386, pi. 2, fig. 1. 



183. Inoceramus conv^exus, Hall & Meek, 1854, Am. Ac. Arts and Sci. 



V. N. S. 386, pi. 2, fig. 2. 



184. Inoceramus tenuilineatus, H. & M., 1854, Am. Ac. Arts and Sci. 



V. N. S. 386, pi. 2, fig. 3. 



185. Inoceramus cuneatus , M. &H., May 1860, Pr. Ac. Nat. Sci. Phila. 181. 



186. Inoceramus Sagensis, Owen, (?) 1852, Report, Survey Min. Iowa 



and Wiscon. 582, tab. vii. fig. 3. 



187. Inoceramus i n c u r v u s , M. & H., Nov. 1856, Pr. Ac. Nat. Sci. Phil. 277. 



188. Inoceramus umbonatus, M. & H., March 1858, Pr. Ac. Nat. Sci. 



Phila. 50. 



189. Inoceramus Mortoni, M. & H., (MSS.) 



1 90. Inoceramus Nebrascensis, Owen, 1852, Rept. Iowa, "Wiscon. and 



Min. 582, pi. 8. fig. 1. 



191. Inoceramus Vanuxe mi, M, &H., May 1860, Pr. Ac. Nat. Sci. Phil. 180. 



192. Inoceramus B al chii, M. &H., " " " " 180. 



193. Area sulcatina, Evans & Shumard, 1857, Trans. St. Louis Ac. Sci. 39. 



194. Area e x i g u a , Meek & Hayden. 



Cucullcea exigua, M. & H., Nov. 1856, Pr. Ac. Nat. Sci. Phil. 275. 



195. Cucullsea fibres a, Sowerby, 1818, Min. Conch, iii. 9. 

 Arcajibrosa, d'Orbigny, 1843, Palseont. Franc, t. iii. 212, pi. 312. 

 Area (^cucullcea) Shumardi, M. & H., Ap. 1856, Pr. Ac. Nat. Sci. Phil. 86. 



196. CucuUsea c o r d a t a , Meek & Hayden. 



Area {eucullcea) cordata, M. & H., Ap. 1856, Pr. Ac. Nat. Sci. Phila. 86. 

 Cucullcea cordata, M. & H., Nov. 1856, " " " 285. 



1 97. Cucull3ea Nebrascensis, Owen, 1852, Rept. Wiscon. Iowa and Min. 

 582, pi. 8, fig. 1, 1 a. 



198. Axinsea siouxensis, Hall & Meek, sp. 



Pectuneulus siouxensis, H. & M., 1854, Mem. Ac. Arts and Sci. Boston, v. 



N. S. 384, pi. 1, fig. 12. 

 Axincea siouxensis, M. & H. May 1860, Pr. Ac. Nat. Sci. Phila. 185. 



199. Axinsea subimbricata. Meek & Hayden. 



Pectuneulus subimhricatus, M. & H., May 1857, Pr. Ac. Nat. Sci. Phila. 146. 

 Axinceasuhimhricatus,U. k'R.,Ua.j l%m, " " " 185. 



200. Limopsis p a r v u 1 a , Meek & Hayden. 



Pectunculina parvula, M. & H., Ap. 1856, Pr. Ac. Nat. Sci. Phila. 86. 

 Limopsis parvula, M. &E., 'Nov. 1856, " " " 285. 



LEDID^. 



201. Leda (Yoldia) scitula, Meek & Hayden. 



Nucula scitula, M. & H., Ap. 1856, Pr. Ac. Nat. Sci, Phila. 84. 

 Leda scitula, M. & H., May 1860, " " " 185. 



[Oct. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 429 



202. Leda (Yoldia) E v a n s i , Meek & Hayden. 



Nucula Evansi, M. & H., Ap. 1856, Pr. Ac. Nat. Sci. Phila. 84. 

 Leda Evansi, M. & H.. May 1860, " " " 185. 



203. Leda (Yoldia) ventricosa, Hall & Meek, sp. 



Nucula ventricosa, H. & M., 1854, Mem. Ac. Arts and Sci. Boston, v. N. 

 S. 385, pi. 1, fig. 11. (Non. N. ventricosa, Hind, 1843.*) 



204. Leda (Yoldia) subnasuta. Hall & Meek, sp. 



Nucula subnasuta, H. & M., Mem. Am. Acad. Arts and Sci. Boston, v. 

 N. S. 384, pi. 1, fig. 11. 



NUCULID^. 



205. Nucula equil a teralis, M. & H., Ap. 1856, Pr. Ac. Nat. Sci. Phil. 84. 



206. Nucula subplana, M. &H., " " " " 85. 



207. Nuculacancellata, M. &H., " " " " 85. 



208. Nucula plan imar gin at a, M. & H., " «' " " 85. 



209. Nucula absoletastriata, M. & H., " " " "275. 



PECTENID.E. 



210. Pecten r i g i d a , Hall & Meek, 1854, Mem. Am. Ac. Sci. and Arts, 



Boston, V. N. S. 381, pi. 2, fig. 4, a, b, c. 



211. Pecten N e b r a s c e n s i s , M. & H., Ap. 1856, Pr. Ac. Nat. Sci. Phil. 87. 



ANOMIAD^. 



212. Anomia obliq ua, M. & H., May 1860, Pr. Ac. Nat. Sci. Phila. 181. 



213. Anomia sub tr igonat is , M. & H., May i860, Pr. Ac. Nat. Sci. 



Phila. 181. 



OSTREAD^. 



214. Ostrea in ornata, M. & H., May 1860, Pr. Ac. Nat. Sci. Phila. 181. 



215. Ostrea translucida, Meek & Hayden, (MSS.) 



Ostrea larva. Hall & Meek, (non. Lamarck) 1854, Mem. Acad. Arts and 

 Sci. Boston, v. N. S. 406. 



216. Ostrea congest a, Conrad, 1843, Nicollet's Report, Explor. N. W. 



Territories, 167. 



217. Ostrea patina, M. & H., 1856, Pr. Ac. Nat. Sci. Phila. 277. 



218. Gyphsea vesicularis, Lamarck ? sp. 



Ostrea vesicularis, Lamarck, 1860, Am. Mus. viii. 160, T. 22, fig. 3. 

 Ostrea deltoidea, Lanxsirck, " " " andxiv. t. 21, pars. 



Ostrea vesicularis of numerous authors. 



BRACHIOPODA? 

 HIPPURITIDiE. 



219. Caprinella ?coraloidea, Hall & Meek. 1854, Mem. Am, Ac. Arts and 



Sci. Boston, v. N. S. 381, pi. 2, fig. 3. 



* Should Nucula ventricosa of Hinds prove to be a true Leda, it will become neces- 

 sary to give our Nebraska shell a new specific name, in which case we would propose 

 to call it Leda exigua. 



I860.] 30 




430 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



RADIATA. 



FUNGIDiE. 



220. Macrobacia coronula, Goldf., sp. Petrefact. Germ. i. 50, tab. 14, fig. 10. 



TERTIARY SPECIES. 



GASTEROPODA. 



CERITHIAD^. 



221. Ceritliium (Cerithidea ?) N e b r a s c e n s i s , M. & H., June 1860, Pr. Ac. 



Nat. Sci. Phila. 125. 



MELANIAD-^. 



222. Melania ? Warre ni, M. & H., May 1857, Pr. Ac. Nat. Sci. Phila. 137. 



223. Melania subtortuosa, M.&H., " " " " 136. 



224. Melania Nebrascensis. M. & H., June 1856, Pr. Ac. Nat. Sci. 



Phila. 124. 



225. Melania t enuicarinat a, M. & H., May 1857, Pr. Ac. Nat. Sci. 



Phila. 137. 



226. Melania convexa, M. &H. 



Turritella convexa, M. & H., March, 1856, Pr. Ac Nat. Sci. Phila. 71. 

 Melania convexa, M. & H., " •' " "125. 



227. Melaniasublevis, M. & H., " " " " 136. 



228. Melania? Anthonyi, M. &H., " " " " 124. 



229. Melania mini tula, M. & H., June 1856, " " " 123. 



VIVIPARID^. 



230. Vivipara C o n r a d i , Meek & Hayden. 



Paludina Conradi, M. & H., June 1856, Pr. Ac. Nat. Sci. Phila. 122. 

 Vivipari Conradi, M. & H., May 1860, " " " 185. 



231. Vivipara Nebrascensis, Meek & Hayden. 



Paludina multilineata, M. & H., June 1856, Pr. Ac. Nat. Sci. Phila. 120. 



(Non. P. multilineata, Say, 1829. 

 Vivipara multilineati, M. & H., May, 1860, Pr. Ac. Nat. Sci. Phila. 185. 



232. Vivipara L e a i , Meek & Hayden. 



Paludina Leai, M. & H., June 1856, Pr. Ac. Nat. Sci. Phila. 121. 

 FttJipamXeai.M.&H., May 1860, " " " 185. 



233. Vivipara v e t u s t a , Meek & Hayden. 



Paludina vetusta, M. & H., 1856, Pr. Ac. Nat. Sci. Phila. 121. 



234. Vivipara retusa. Meek & Hayden. 



Paludina retusa, M. & H., June 1856, Pr. Ac. Nat. Sci. Phila. 122. 

 Fimjaam retusa, M. &H., May 1860, " " " 185. 



235 . Vivipara trochiformis, Meek & Hayden. 



Paludina trochiformis, M. & H., June 1856, Pr. Ac. Nat. Sci. Phila. 122. 

 Paludina Leidyi, ? M. & H., " " " " 123. 



Vivipara trochiformis, U. & R., M&j 1B60, " " " 185. 



VALVATID^. 



236. Valvata subumbilicata. Meek & Hayden. 



[Oct. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 431 



Planorbis siibumbilicata, M. & H., June 1856, Pr. Ac. Nat. Sci. Pliila. 120. 

 Valvata subumbilicata, M. &m, May 1860, " i' " 185. 



237. Valvataparvula, M. &H., June 1856, " " " 123. 



HELICID^. 



238. Columna ? teres, Meek & Hayden. 



Bulimus ? teres, M. & H., June, 1856, Pr. Ac. Nat. Sci., Phila. 117. 



239. Columna ? verm ion lus, M. & H., June 1856, Pr. Ac. Nat. Sci. 



Phila. 118. 

 Bulimus ? vermiculus M. & H., June 1856, Pr. Ac. Nat. Sci, Phila. 118. 



240. Bulimus limnei f o r mi s , M. & H., June 1856, Pr. Ac. Nat. Sci. 



Phila. 118. 

 Bulimus Nebrascensis, ? M. & H., June 1856, Pr. Ac. Nat. Sci. Phila. 118. 



241. Helix Leidyi, Hall & Meek, Jane 1854, Mem, Am. Acad. Arts and 



Sci. Boston, v. N. S. 394, pi, 3, fig, 12. 



242. Helix v e t u s t a , Meek & Hayden. 



H. vitrinoides, M, & H., May 1857, Pr. Ac. Nat, Sci, Phila, 135, (Non. 

 H. vitrinoides, Deshays, 1830), 



243. Helix obliqua, M, & H., May 1857, Pr. Ac, Nat. Sci. Phila, 134. 



244. Helix E v a n s i , M. & H,, May 1860, Pr, Ac. Nat. Sci, Phila, 175 , 



245. Helix (Polygyra) amplexus. Meek & Hayden, 



Planorbis amplexus, M. & H., May 1857, Pr. Ac. Nat. Sci. Phila. 21. 

 Helix (^Polygyra) amplexus, M. & H., May 1860, Pr.Ac. Nat, Sci, Phila. 185. 



246. Helix Nebrascensis, Meek & Hayden, 



H. occidentalis, M, & H., May 1857, Pr. Ac, Nat. Sci. Pliila. 135, 

 (Non, H. occidentalis, Recluz. 1845.) 



LIMN^IDiE. 



247. Limnsea (Acella) te n uico s t at a , M, & H., June 1856, Pr. Ac. Nat, 



Sci, Phila, 119, 



248. Limnsea M e e k a n a , Evans & Shumard, (MSS,) 



249. Limnsea ?multistriata, Meek & Hayden. 



Melania multistriata, M. & H., June 1826, Pr. Ac. Nat, Sci. Phila. 124. 



250. Physa s ecal ana , Evans & Shumard, Aug. 1854, Pr, Ac. Nat. Sci. 

 Phila, 156, 



251. Physa (Aplexus) longiuscula, M. & H., June 1856, Pr. Ac, Nat. 

 Sci. Phila, 119. 



252. Physa (Aplexus) subelongata, M. & H., June 1856, Pr. Ac. Nat, 

 Sci. Phila. 120. 



253. Physarhomboidea, M. & H., June 1856, Pr. Ac. Nat. Sci. Phil. 119, 



254. Planorbis (Segmentina ?) Nebrascensis, Evans & Shumard, Aug, 



1854, Pr. Ac, Nat, Sci. Phila. 164. 



255. Planorbis (Segmentina ?) v e t u 1 u s , M. & H,, May 1860, Pr. Ac. Nat. 



Sci. Phila, 175, 



256. Planorbis Leidyi, M. & H., May 1860, Pr. Ac. Nat. Sci. Phila. 175. 



257. Planorbis convolutus, M. & H,, June 1856, Pr, Ac. Nat. Sci. 

 Phila. 120. 



I860.] 




432 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



258. Planorbis planoconvexus, Meek & Hayden. 



Planorhis fragilis, M. & H., May 1857, Pr. Ac. Nat. Sci. Phila. 136. 



(Non. P. fragilis, Danker, 1843. 

 Planorbis planoconvexus, M, & H. May 1860, Pr. Ac. Nat. Sci. Phila. 185. 



259. Ancylus (Acroloxus) mi nut a, M. & H., June 1856, Pr. Ac. Nat. Sci. 



Phila. 120. 



CONCHIFERA. 

 CORBULID^. 



260. Corbula p e r u n d a t a , M. & H., June 1856, Pr. Ac. Nat. Sci. Phila. 116. 



261. Corbula (Potamomya) subtrigonalis. Meek & Hayden. 



Corbula subtrigonalis, M. & H. Juue, 1856, Pr. Ac. Nat. Sci. Phila. 116. 



262. Corbula (Potamomya) mactriformis. Meek & Hayden. 



Corbula mactriformis, M. & H., June 1856, Pr. Ac. Nat. Sci. Phila. 117. 



CYRENIDiE. 



263. Corbicula Moreauensis, Meek & Hayden. 



Cyrena Moreauensis, M. & H., June 1856, Pr. Ac. Nat. Sci. Phila. 115. 



264. Corbicula Nebrascensis, Meek & Hayden. 



Cyrena intermedia, M. & H., June 1856, Pr. Ac. Nat. Sci. Phila. 116. 

 (Non. Cyrena (^Corbicula') intermedia, Mellville, 1843.) 



265. Corbicula c y t h e ri f ormi s , Meek & Hayden. 



Cyrena (Corbicula?) cytheriformis, M. & H., May 1860. Pr. Ac. Nat. Sci. 

 Phila. 176. 



266. Corbicula occidentalis, Meek & Hayden. 



Cyrena occidentalis M. & H., June 1856, Pr. Ac. Nat. Sci. PhUa. 116. 



267. Sphaerium planum, M. &H., May 1860, " " " 175. 



268. Sphaerium formosum, Meek & Hayden. 



Cyclas formosa, M. & H., June 1856, P. Ac. Nat. Sci. Phila. 115. 



Cyclas fragilis, U. k B.., " " " " 115. 



Sphaerium formosum, TA. k B.., May 1860, " " " 185. 



269. Sphaerium subellipticum, Meek & Hayden. 



Cyclas subelliptica, M. & H., June 1856, Pr. Ac. Nat. Sci. Phila. 115. 

 Sphaer ium subellipticum, 'M.kB.., May ISQO, " " " 185. 



270. Sphaerium recticardinale, M. & H., " " " " 176. 



UNIONID^. 



271. Uniopriscus,M. &H., June 1856, Pr. Ac. Nat. Sci. Phila. 117. 



272. Unio sub spa tula-tus,M. &H., May 1857, " " " 146. 



273. Unio Dewey anus, M. &H., " " " " 145. 



274. Unio Dana, M. &H., " '• " " 146. 



OSTREAD^. 



275. Ostrea subtrigonalis, Evans & Shumard, 1857, Trans. St. Louis 



Acad. Sci. i. 38. 



276. Ostrea glabra, Meek & Hayden, Pr. Ac, Nat. Sci. Phila. 146. 



[Oct. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. ' 433 



Observations on American Tineina. 



BY H. T. STAINTON, OF LONDON.* 



Tinea biflavimaculella. This is closely allied if not identical with 

 T. Spilotella (see Linn. Ent. vi. p. 108, Rusticella, var. b.) Spilotella 

 appears confined to the north of Europe, occurring in Finland and Scotland. 



T. dorsistrigella, is allied to T. f erruginel la, but the markings 

 much are whiter and the dorsal streak is broader. T. nuhilipennella is identical 

 with our T. fuscipunctella. 



T. lanariella, is identical with our everywhere abundant T. bisel- 

 1 i e 1 1 a. 



Xylesthia pruniramiella. This curious genus appears to be rather 

 allied to Ochsenheimeria ; another strange genus in this vicinity, Hapsifera 

 was founded by Zeller, in the Isis of 1847, p. 32. 



Amydria effrenatella. I am disposed to place this in the genus 

 Euplocamus ; the palpi are very like those of E. tessulatella, Z. (Linn. 

 Ent. vi. p. 96. )t 



Anaphora plumifrontella. I am utterly perplexed with this ; we have 

 no European form at all resembling it. 



Lithocolletis lucidicostella ) These are allied to the group of 

 L. argentifimbriella, ) Cramerella, Tenella and Heegeriella. 



L. basistrigella. This is nearly allied to a South European species, 

 Suberifoliella, (Zell. Entomol. Zeitung, 1850, p. 208) ; but it is smaller, the 

 basal streak is shorter, the subapical streaks are more distinct and the ground 

 color darker. 



Tischeria citrinipennella. This is rather intermediate between the 

 European Complanella and Marginea ; it possesses a black spot at the anal 

 angle, as in the last named species. 



Phyllocnistis vitigenella. This is closely allied to our SufFusella and 

 Saligna ; but it is smaller, and the position of the subapical dorsal streak is 

 different. 



Coleophora coruscipennella. This is very nearly allied to our C. 

 Fabriciella; but the anterior wings are a little browner. The antennae 

 quite agree with those of Fabriciella. 



Plutella vigilaciella. This is our P. porrectella; you will find the 

 larva in gardens on Hesperis matronalis. 



Plutella limbipennella. This is our P. cruciferarum; it seems 

 cosmopolitan, as I have seen specimens from various parts of the globe. 

 Probably wherever man eats cabbages Cruciferarum will occur. 



Argyresthia oreasella. This seems quite identical with our A. A n d e r- 

 eggiella. 



*Mr. Stainton has very kindly seat me the following observations, on a small lot of 

 American Tineina, forwarded to him late in July. In return, I am indebted to him for 

 an interesting suite of European genera and specimens of those insects which he considers 

 identical with ours. It is quite needless for me lo say that I regard any opinion Mr. 

 Staintin may deliberately form, on questions of classification, to be final. 



After having examined a specimen of the genus Simaethis, I must acknowledge that 

 Brenthia seems conseneric with it. Whether the former genus naturally belongs to the 

 Pyralidma must be left for future determination. My own opinion at present is, that it is 

 improperly included in this well-mArked group. — Brackenridge Clemens. 



tThis is true of the labial palpi ; but the auxilliary palpi in Amydria are extremely short. 



I860.] 




434 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Bedellia ? Staintoniella. Certainly a Bedellia, and I cannot distingnish 

 it specifically from our Somnnlentella, only it is smaller. 



Cosmopteryx? gemmiferella. A true Cosmopteryx ; but your specimens 

 are not all the same species ; four of them I take to be the true Gemmiferella . 

 These have the central fascia reddish-OTanse, edged with silvery violet. This 

 fascia is considerabl(/ broadest on the costa, its hinder margin being formed by 

 t^vo silvery-violet spots, which are by no means opposite ; at the apex of the 

 wing is a short silvery white scale [streak?], preceded by a violet silvery 

 spot, with which it is not connected. 



The other two specimens, for which I propose the name Cosmopteryx 

 Clemensella, differ from Gemmiferella in the anterior wings being darker, 

 the orange fascia is paler, not so reddish, its margins are pale golden, instead 

 of silvery- violet, and its hind margin is almost straight, (this is very different 

 from Gemmiferella) ; finally, the apical streak is continuous, not interrupted, 

 and of a silvery white throughout. I shall describe this in an early number 

 of the "Intelligencer," in some remarks on the extra -European species of 

 Cosmopteryx. 



Anorthosia punctipennella. This seems to be allied to Cleodora, and 

 I do not feel confident that it is generically distinct. 



Gelechia Agrimoniella. Allied toG. ligulella and G. taeniolella, 

 but quite distinct. 



G.? roseosuffusella; a true Gelechia, allied to G. decurtella, (H. S. 

 Tineides, tab. 72, f. 539). 



G. Rhoifructella. This has considerable resemblance with our G. 

 Populella; but the anterior wings are broader and blunter, and the anterior 

 segments of the body are not pale. 



G.? rubidella; a true Gelechia, somewhat allied toG. ericinella, but 

 smaller, and the anterior wings narrower. 



G. detersella. I am uncertain about this ; it is perhaps allied to our 

 moss-feeding G. af finis. The name detersella, must be altered, that name 

 having been used by Zeller for a Sicilian species of the genus (Isis, 1S47). 



The genus Gelechia, as at present constituted, is very elastic, and includes 

 a variety of slightly different forms. G. subocelleais our most discordant 

 species. 



Strobisia iridipennella. ) These are very different from anything in 

 S. emblemella. ) Europe, and the form of wiug in Iridi- 



pennella is so peculiar that you are clearly justified in forming a new 

 genus ; it is not improbably a connecting link between Gelechia and Glyphip- 

 teryx. 



Butalis flavifrontella. | ZeUer has described in the Linnsea Ento- 



B. mat u tell a. ) mologica, vol. x., several ^'o^th American 



species of Butalis. His Basilaris, p. 230, is perhaps identical with your 



Flavifrontella, and his Impositella, p. 241, may have been described from a 



worn specimen of your M a t u t el 1 a. 



Stilbosis tesquella. This is a very curious insect, resembling inform 

 of wing Asychna aeratella; the ornamentation is more like some of the 

 Lavemae. 



Chrysocorys Erythtiella. This is a true Chrysocorys. 



Brenthia Pavonacella. lam disposed to consider this not a Tineina, 

 but rather one of the Pyralidina, allied to Simaethis ; but I have never observed 

 the strutting habit in any of our species. 



Pigritia laticapitella. This is an obscure looking insect of doubtful 

 losation, reminding one most strongly of some of the aberrant Butalidse. 



[Oct. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 435 



Descriptions of new Corals in the Musenm of the Academy. 



BY GEO. H. HORN. 



Madrepora perampla. 



M. crasse foliata, frondibns profande digitato-lobatis ; lobis late elongatis 

 (saepe 2' longis, 4" — 8" latis, et 1" — 4" crassis). Coralluni infra, caliculis 

 confertis (1'" — 1^'" longis) ; supra tublformibns, inequalibus (2'" — 3'" longis 

 et 1|"' latis) erectis, nunquam nariformibus ; Stella conspicua, duabus 

 lamellis latioribus. 



The broad and thick lobes of this species dlstingnish it from either the M. 

 alcesor M. palmata. The calicles are elongated, and with a distinct 

 star. Immersed cells numerous, equalling in this respect the prominent 

 calicles. The lobes are broad, and arise from a common pedicle, which is 

 very stout (4" — 6") : thej also show a tendency to further subdivision. 



Locality. — West Indies. Dr. J. H. Slack. 



Madrepora subaquila. 



M. crasse digitata, (lobis 2' longis, 3" latis et 2|" crassis). Corallum infra 

 caliculis confertis (1" longis); supra tubiformibus, inequalibus (2'" longis et 

 1'" latis); Stella inconspicua. 



The above description was derived from a branch, two feet in length, of a 

 frond, whose mode of growth was nearly horizontal, judging from the relation 

 of the calicles to the upper surface. This species differs materially from any 

 of the digitato-pahnate madrepores heretofore described, in its naode of 

 growth, its large calicles, and its inconspicuous star. Its color is light 

 brownish exteriorly. 



Locality. — Unknown. 



Madrepora t u b i g e r a . 



M. prostrata, ramis paulum diffusis, stricte ramosis ; ramulis attennatis 

 (base 3"')» apice acutis. Corallum porosum, caliculo apicale elongato, cylin- 

 drico (3'" — i'" sjepe 5'" longo et f '" lato) ; lateraUbus tubiformibus, saepe 

 labellatis et dimidiatis ; Stella conspicua. 



This species is well marked. Its much elongated and delicate apical calicle 

 iistinguishing it from all known prostrate branching madrepores. 



Locality. Unknown. Dr. T. B. Wilson. 



Merulina species a. 



M. explanato-ramosa, late undata ; margine lobata, unifronte ; superne 

 ramis confertis (2 — 3|^" altis). Corallum collibus rotundatis (1"' altis), 

 lamellis sequalibus serrulatis. 



This species differs from any other of the genus Merulina in its branches 

 arising from an explanate base. It grows in large subhemispherical clumps 

 (10" — 13^' in diameter). The thickness of the explanate portion is often 

 three lines. Its under surface is strongly ribbed, coarsely striate, and 

 granulous. 



Locality. — Unknown. Dr. T. B. Wilson. 



Agaricia anthrophylla. 



A. late explanata, undata. CoraUum margine fragile.* Superficie infe- 

 riore striata ; superne laminis erectis (1 — 3^" altis) coalitis et meandrinis 

 (saepe 8" longis) ; collibus elongatis et sequalibus (1 — 1|"' altis et latis) 

 lamellis crassis confertissimis. 



Grows in subhemispherical clumps, attached below by its centre. It differs 

 from the other Agaricia? in its vertical and coalescing plates. The lamellae are 

 stout, being greater in thickness than the width of the spaces between them. 

 Corallum thin at the edges, interiorly measuring from three to five lines. 



Locality. — Unknown. Dr. T. B. Wilson. 



I860.] 




436 PEOCEEDIXGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



Catalogue of Carboniferous Plants in the Museum of the Academy of Natural 

 Sciences, \«itli corrections in Synonymy, descriptions of new Species, &c. 



BY HORATIO C. WOOD, JR. 



In the ensuing enumeration, it will be seen, that we first give our own de- 

 cision, followed occasionally by remarks ou synonomy, &c.; then the number 

 of specimens with labels previously afiSxed, in quotation marks ; then the locality, 

 as far as known followed either by the naoae of the donor, or of the collection 

 to which they formerly belonged, and their number in that collection. 



The Academy ia indebted to Dr. T. B. Wilson for the duplicates of the " Bristol 

 Institute Collection," which form the bulk of the specimens. We do not know 

 whether the numbers on them coincide with the original collection or not. 



Those presented by Mr. J. P. Wetherill are especially interesting; many of 

 them being the types of Steiahauer, and all probably having belonged to that 

 author. They are labelled with Steinhauer's names, in the hand writing of 

 Dr. Samuel Geo. Morton. 



Besides those here enumerated, there are in the cabinet of the Academy a num- 

 ber of European vegetable reliquse from various formations. These we had pur- 

 posed arranging and cataloguing conjointly with the carboaiferous ; but owing 

 to the press of other engagements must leave them till some future day. 



We know of but one other foreign collection in the United States, and the 

 partially arranged American suite of the Academy is large and increasing from 

 day to day. We think it highly important that there should be a standard 

 collection in this country, where investigators may deposit these types, and by 

 comparison with which any disputes that may arise may be settled. The city 

 of Philadelphia, the emporium of the coal trade, is certainly the proper place 

 for this. Moreover, the collection of carboniferous plants, (native and foreign.) 

 is probably much tlie finest in the country, numbering about a thousand speci- 

 mens. We would therefore suggest to authors the propriety of sending, as far 

 as practicable, types of their coal plants. We would also ask those living in 

 the coal region, or engaged in the trade, to send specimens to the Academy, 

 and thus forward the best interests of botanical science and practical geology. 



Ord. EQUISITACEA. 

 E(jniSKTiTE8, Sternb. 



E. macrodontus,n. sp. ? Stem simple, articulated, obsoletely costate : 

 articulations short, swollen at the joints; sheaths multidentate ; teeth longer 

 than articulations, contracting at their base, expanded (and united?) above, 

 then rapidly contracting, and terminating in a greatly elongated setaceous point, 

 (? furnished on one border with a second short setaceous point.) Fructification 

 not preserved. 



Our specimen is a flattened impression on coal shales, the terminal sheath 

 only being distinct. It is impossible to say with certainty, whether the second 

 points belong to the large teeth, or whether they are the terminations of a 

 smaller set placed between them. 



Cal.^mites,* Suckow. 

 C. radiatus? Brong. 



1 specimen " C. radiatus ?" In Pennant, Bris. Ins. Coll. No. 64. 



C. decoratus, Art. 



1 spec. Red Vein, Abersychan. T. B. Wilson, .M. D. 



2 spec. " Phylolithus sulcatus," Pudsy. J. P. Wetherill. 



*Calamites was applied in 1751, (Guett. Mem. Ac. Sc. Par.; to a genus of fossil corals, 

 but as the name is considered pre-Linnaean by authorities in that department of palaeonto- 

 logy, and replaced by Syringopora, Goldfuss, of course we do not change it as applied to 

 fossil botany. 



[Oct. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 437 



C. ramosus, Art. 

 1 spec. C. " nodosus," Sterab. Glamorgiashire. T. B. Wilson, M. D. 

 1 spec. " Piiyt. sulcata?." Near Bradford. J. P. Wetherill. 

 1 spec. " C. ramosus," Art. Br. los. Coll., No. 69. 

 ?I spec. " C with scars of braaches." Bris. las Coll. 



C Cist ii, Brongt. 

 1 spec. " C. witli impressioa of Sigillaria on the back," Radstock. Br, Ins. 



Coll., No. 82. 

 1 spec. J. P. Wetherill. 

 1 spec. " C. Cistii ?" Red Vein, Iron Stone, Abersychan. T. B. Wilson, M. D. 



C. d ub ius , Art. 

 'l spec. " Phyt. sulcatus," Sheffield. J. P. Wetherill. 



C. cannaeformis, Brongt. 

 1 spec. " Phyt. sulcatus," Near Bradford. J. P Wetherill. 

 1 spec. " Phyt. sulcatus," Pudsy. J. P. Wetherill. 



1 spec. "C. cannaeformis." Brist. Ins. Coll., No. 63. 



C. approximatus, Br. 



2 spec. " C. approximatus." In Pennant, Br. Ins. Coll., Nos. 58 and 59. 

 1 spec. " C. approximxtus." Merthyr. T. B. Wilson, M. D. 



1 spec. " C. ranceolatus "! ! ! 



1 spec. England. Mr. R. E. Griffith. 



1 spec. 



C. Steinhaneri, Br. 

 1 spec. Shelf Fork. T. P. Wetherill. 

 1 spec. " C. Steinhaneri," Bris. Ins. Coll., No. 18. 



C. i n ae q a a 1 i s , L. et H. 



1 spec. "C. (irregular.)" Pennant, Bris. Ins. Coll., No. 66. 



We have identified this species with some hesitation, as its only distinguish- 

 ing characteristic, (according to its discoverer,) is its irregularity. Our speci- 

 men perfectly possesses that peculiarity ! 



Besides the above, there are qaite a number of foreign specimens of this 

 genus in the cabinet, but, unfortunately, their specific characteristics are not 

 sufficiently preserved for their identification. 



Ord. ASTEROPHYLLITiE. 



ASTEEOPHYLLITES. 



A. equisetiformis, Brong. 



1 spec. A. equiseiiformis. England. Br. Ins. Coll., No. 23. 



Sphenophyllites, Brong. (1822). 

 Sphmophyllum, Brong. (1828). Rotularia, Sternb. (1822.) 

 What inSuenced Mons. Brongniart in alteriag his first chosen name, we are 

 uiable to divine, unless hi did it for the sake of euphony. And why not 

 change Asterophyllites to Asterophyllum, on the same principle? Of course 

 the first name must stand to the exclusion of the more euphonious. 



S. erosa, nobis. 

 Splienophyllum, erosum, L. et H. Foss. Flor. vol. i. tab. 13. 

 1 spec. " Sphenophyllum erosum." England. Br. Ins. Coll. No. 15. 



S. angustifolia. Germ ? 

 Sphenophyllum^ anyustifoliiim, Uager. Gen. N. spec. Foss. Piant. p. 71. 

 1 spec. England. Dr. T. B. Wilson. 



I860.] 




438 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



Trocophyllum,* nobis. 



Annularia. Sternb. 



Aanularia being pre-occupied as a generic name, in the sub-kingdom of 

 ilollusca, (Schumacher, Essai Nat. Syst. 1817), we would substitute for it the 

 one given above. 



T. f e r t i 1 u s, nobis. 

 Annularia fertilus, Sternb. 

 1 spec. England. J. P. Wetherill, Esq. 



Ord. NEUROPTERIDiE, Br. 



Neuropteris, Brong. 

 N. h i r s u t a, Lesq. 



1 spec. (var. a c u t i f o 1 i a), little seam under Slivin. T. B. Wilson, M. D. 

 1 spec. "N. acutifolia," Brong. Br. Ins. Coll. No. 103. 

 1 spec. N. ? Br. Ins. Coll. No. 112. 



1 spec. (var. cordala), T. B. Wilson, M. D. 



N. a u r i c u 1 a t a, Brong. 



1 spec. "N. auriculata with P. cyathea." Br. Ins. Coll. No. 127. 



X. C is tii, Brong.? 



1 spec. " N. Cistii. In a nodule of clay iron-stone." Br. Ins. Coll. No. 126. 



This form is, perhaps, only a variety of N. minor, nobis. But we have not 

 seen a sufficient number of specimens to enable us to decide with certainty. 



N. minor, nobis. 



Lilhosniumda ?«mor, Lloyd, Lithophylacium, 1760. Feliciies linffuarius, Schlotb. 

 Naacht. zur Petref. 1822 ; ejusdem Flora der Vorwelt, 1804. X. ffic/antea, St. 

 1821, and N. gigantea, N. Loschii, N. rotundifolia, all of Brong. Prod. 1828. 



We do not hesitate in re-uniting these forms, separated by Mons. Brongniart. 

 He says, that he has never seen a specimen of N. g i g a n t e a, St., yet erects his 

 specimens into new species on such differential characters as, '• ia the one, the 

 pinules overlap by a little of their border, — in the other, there is a little space 

 between them." Every tyro in recent botany knows that, among the ferns, the 

 same plant varies in its (Afferent portions more than this. And we have 

 specimens of this species, less than two inches in length, that do so. That the 

 species of this genus do vary very much, is shown by N. h i r s u t a. Lesq., the 

 several forms of which differ from one another much more than do any of 

 these.f 



1 spec. [var. (flexuosa). R. E. Griffith. 



3 spec. "N. flexuosa." On slate. Br. Ins. Coll. Nos. 105, 106? 



1 spec. "N. gigantea." In nodule of clay iron-stone. Br. Ins. Coll. No. 115. 



1 spec. "N. allied to Loschii." Br. Ins. Coll. No. 120. 



1 spec. " N. allied to Cistii." Br. Ins. Coll. No. 12-5. 



*Perhaps some naturalists would consider that this genus should receive the name of 

 Casuarinites, of which division of the old authors it is a section. But their genera of fossil 

 plants were so vague that all modern authorities agree in discarding them. If we revive 

 (Casuarinites, Filicites, Phytolithus, &c., must also come agaia into use, much to the 

 detriment of an already complicated and difficult branch of science. Moreover, as A. 

 equisetiformis may be considered the type of the genus of Schlotheim, his same 

 would rather take the place of Asterophyllites. 



tV^Tieiher botanists agree with us in considering these forms as belonging to one 

 species or not, N, minor, nobis, wiU have to replace N. Loschii, Br., and the 

 specific name minor thus being pre-occupied, we would suggest N. p a r v a, instead of 

 N. minor, Lesq. It may be objected by some that N. minor is preLinnsean, 

 but the tenth edition of his Systema Naturae, in which the binomial nomenclature is 

 employed, was published 1758; and we hold it to be a great injustice to earlier writers to 

 reject their names when they are binomial. 



[Oct. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 439 



1 spec. "N. allied to flexuosa." Br. Ins. Coll. No. 126. 

 1 spec. "N. rotundifolia." Br. Ins. Coll. No. 127. 

 5 spec. N. ? Br. Ins. Coll. 



In these last, the specific name is not given, — the naturalist, apparently, not 

 being able to decide as to them. 



Ctclopteris, Brong. 

 C. ob liqu a, Brong. 



1 spec. " C, obliqua." Clay iron-stone. Br. Ins. Coll. No, 101. 

 ? 1 spec. " C. flabellata." Clay iron-stone. Br. Ins. Coll. No. 98. 

 ? I spec. " C. ? with N. cordata." R. E. Griffith. 



0. trichomanoides, Brong. 



1 spec. " C. trichomanoides." Clay iron-stone." Br. Ins. Coll. No. 99. 



C. campton eura, n. sp. 



Leaf petiolate, thin sub-cuneate, with margin apparently slightly lobate 

 and serrate; nerves thin, very flexuous, at base of leaf few in number (about 

 twelve), but rapidly and repeatedly forking, so that at margin they are very 

 numerous and close. 



The only specimen of this species which we have seen, has the nerves and 

 interior of the leaf, as well as its base, perfectly preserved ; but towards the 

 margin, it becomes so indistinct, that we speak with great doubt as to its 

 lobation and serration. The disposition and flexuosity of its nerves separate 

 it widely, however, from all heretofore known species. 



Habitat. England. Cab. of Acad. R. E. Griffith. 



f ,\ d i I a t a t a, L. et H. 



1 spec. Clay iron-stone. Sheffield. T. B. Wilson, M. D. 

 1 spec. Clay iron-stone. England. T. B. Wilson, M. D. 



0. trilobus, nobis. 



Spkenopieris dilatata, L. et H. Adiantites trilobus, Goep. Cyclop, dilaiafa, 

 riternb. 



As the specific name dilatata is pre-occupied, trilobus will have to be 

 retained. 



1 spec. Br. Ins. Coll. No. 16. 



1 spec. "Sphen. dilatata." Br. Ins. Coll, No. 85. 



NCEGERATHIA. 



N. flab ell at a, L. et H. 



1 spec. England. R. E. Griffith, 



Ord. SPHENOPTERIDJE, Brong. 



Sphenopteris. 

 ;<. ar temes iaf ol i a, Brong. 



2 spec. England. R. E. Griffith. 



I spec, " Sphen. artemesiafolia, N. cordata and P. polymorpha." Br. Ins. 

 Coll. No. 68. 



S. elegans, Br. 



1 spec. Br. Ins. Coll. No. 84, 



1 spec. 



S. affin i s, L. et H. 



2 spec. "S. affinis." Bardiehouse, Edinburg (Carbonif. limestone). Br. 

 Ins. Coll. No. 87. 



S. lu n e ari s, Br. 



1 spec. England. R. E. Griffith, 



I860.] 




440 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



?S. polyphylla, L. et H. 



2 spec. " S. polyphylla." Br. Ins. Coll. Xo. 88. 



S. latifolia, Brong. 



1 spec. " S. latifolia." England. R. C. Taylor. 



S. obtusiloba, Br. 



2 spec. England. R. E. Griffith. 



S. Con way i, L. et. H. 



2 spec. " S. Conwayi." Wales. Br. Ins. Coll. No. 88. 



Hymknophtllites, Goep. 

 H. furcata, Goep. 



1 spec. England. R. E. Griffith. 



Ord. PECOPTERID^, Br. 



Glossopteris, Brong. 



G. Browniana, Br. 



1 spec. Hawkesburg River, New South Wales. Br. Ins. Coll. No. 129. 



The nervation is much closer and finer than in Brongniart's figure; but we 

 have no doubt as to the identity of the two plants. 



Alethopteris, Goep. 

 A. lonchitidis, Sternb. 



1 spec. " P. candoliana." Br. Ins. Coll. No. 153. 



6 spec. " P. lonchitica." In nodules of clay iron-stone. Br. Ins. Coll. No. 154. 



1 spec. Philadelphia Library Company. 



A. Serlii. Goep, 



8 spec. "P. Serlii." Br, Ins. Coll. Nos. 155, 161, 159, 162, 166, 167 . 



. 1 spec. " P. Serlii." Somersetshire. 



3 spec. "P. Serlii." Camerton. Br. Ins. Coll. Nos. 158, 160. 



2 spec. -'P. Serlii." Radstock. Br. Ins. Coll. No. 104. 



A. heterophylla, Goep. 



1 spec. " Asterophyllites equisetiformis with P. heterophylla." Br. Ins. Coll. 



Pecopteris, Brong. 

 P. oreopterodes, Br. 



1 spec. "P. oreopteroides." Br. Ins. Coll. No. 153. 

 ? 1 spec. " P. villosa." Br. Ins. Coll. No. 142. 



P. polymorph a, Br. 



1 spec. "P. polymorpha." Br. Ins. Coll. No. 144. 

 1 spec. "P, polymorpha." Sheffield. 

 ? 1 spec. " Pecopteris." Br. Ins. Coll. No. 175. 

 1 spec. " P. Miltoni." Br. Ins. Coll. No. 140. 

 1 spec. "P. Cistii." Radstock. Br. Ins. Coll. No. 151. 

 1 spec. '' P. pteroides ? '' Br. Ins. Coll. No. 138. 



P. lepidorachis, Br. 



1 spec. "P. lepidorachis." Br. Ins. Coll. No. 111. 



P. unit a, Br. 



1 spec. "P. unita." Br. Ins. Coll. No. 118. 



P. Pluckenetti, Br. 

 1 spec. " P. Pluckenetti." Br. Ins. Coll. No. 147. 



P. p ennsef r mis, Br. 



1 spec. "P. pennaformis," Br. Br. Ins. Coll. No. 141. 



[Oct. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 441 



V. den tat a, Br. 



1 spec. " P. dentata." Br. Ins. Coll. No. 136. 

 ? 2 spec. Br. Ins. Coll. Nos. 135 and 174. 



p. y a t h e a. 



3 spec. "P. cyathea." Br. lus. Coll. Nos. 148 and 152. 



1 spec. "P. villosa." Br. Ins. Coll. No. 149. 



P. arborescens, Br. 



2 spec. "P. arborescens." Br. Ins. Coll. Nos. 132 and 1.33. 



P. rauricata, Br. 

 7 spec. Pembrokeshire. Br, Ins. Coll. Nos. 131-160. 



Ord. LEPIDODENDRiE. 



Lepidodbndron, Sternb. 

 L. ob vatum, St. 



? spec. " L. elegans." Br. Ins. Coll. No. 190. 

 1 spec. "Phytolithus cancellatus." York. Mr, J. P. Wetherill. 



L. dichotomum, Sternb.??? 



We label these specimens thus, solely on account of their being so labelled 

 in England. Sternberg first described the plant with the name of Lycopoditea 

 dichotomum, giving an exceedingly indefinite figure and a worse description. 

 Brongniart, in his prodrome, placed it in its proper genus, — changing its specific 

 name to S t e r n b e r g i i. In his Vers. ii. Sternb. again figured it, nnder the name 

 of Lep. dichotomum. To this work we have not been able to gain access. 

 But Unger, in his Genera and Species of Fossil Plants, has given a description, 

 drawn, we suppose, from it. It is worthy of remark that this description 

 does not agree with the figure first published by Sternberg! Nor does either 

 of the two figures in the Fossil Flora, which also differ one from another! ! In 

 such a chaos, we are unable to decide what are the specific characters, or even 

 whether there are any. If the two figures published by Lindley & Hutton 

 beloag to the same plant, we see no character by which L. d i 1 a t a t u m, of the 

 same authors, can be separated from them. From some unknown cause, Unger 

 does not notice L. d i 1 a t a t u ra, neither as a good species, nor yet as a synonym. 



4 spec. "L. Sternbergii." England. T. B. Wilson, M.D. 

 2 spec. " L. dilatatum.' England. T. B. Wilson, M. D. 



li. aculeatum, Sternb. 



1 spec. " L. obovatum." England. ? 



1 spec. England. ? 



L. imbricatum, Sternb.? 



1 spec, " L. allied to veltheimianus." Br. Ins. Coll. No. 187. 



L. caelatum, Sternb. 



Sagenaria caelata, Br., Phytolithus cancellatus of Steinhauer, Phil. Trans., 

 vol. i. (new series,) pi. 6, fiig. 2, 1818; but not Pbyt. cancellatus of 

 Martin, Petrefacta D e r b i e n s a , pi. 13, fig. 1, 1809, nor Phyt. imbricatus 

 of same author, to which. Steinhauer refers as identical with his Phyt. can- 

 cellatus, nor either of the two species referred to by Steinhauer, in Par- 

 kinson, Organic remains, pi. 1, fig. 6, pi. 2, fig. 4. We have not been 

 able to find the description or names for these in Parkinson's Org. Rem. But 

 as there are no descriptions of, or names to the plates, and also no index 

 to the work, they may be named somewhere incidentally ; which, in snch a 

 mass of text, we have not been able to find. Never having seen either 

 Sowerby's British Mineralogy, or Volkman, Siles. Subterr., we can not say 

 as to the identity of Phyt. cancellatus of those authors. But we have 

 scarcely a donbt that they also differ, specifically, from all others, and amongat 



I860.] 




442 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



themselves. In such a case as this, of course it is useless to attempt to revive 

 the old name. 



1 spec. "Phytolithus canceUatus." (Steinhauer's tvpe.*) AstercliflFs, 

 York. J. P. Wetherill. 



L. r i m s u m , Stemb. 



1 spec. "L. allied to rimosum." Frenchay. Br. Ins. Coll. No. 199. 

 1 spec. "L. allied to rimosum." England. T. B. "Wilson, M. D. 

 1 spec. " L. rimosum." Br. Ins. CoU. No. 198. 



L. ? 



25 spec, of branches, variously labelled, and mostly from Br. Ins. Coll. 



Besides the above, there are quite a number of specimens belonging to the 

 genera Lepidodendron and SigUlaria, with various labels, but which do not 

 possess any specific character. 



Ulodendeon. 

 U. parmatum, nobis. 



Phytolithus parmatus, Steinhauer. Amer. Philos. Trans, vol. i. (new series,) 

 pi. 7, fig. 1. Not Phyt. parmatus of same author, pi. 6, fig. 1. 



1 spec. "Phytolithus parmatus" (Steinhauer's type). Shelf, near Bradford. 

 J. P. Wetherill. 



Ctclocladia, L. et H. 



C.?Huttonia, nobis. 



Phytolithus parmatus, Sternb. Am. Phil. Trans, pi. 6, fig. 1. Cyclocladia 

 majus and C. minor of Lind. et Hutt. 



1 spec. "Phyt. parmatus" (Steinhauer's type). Shelf, York. J. P. 

 Wetherill. 



If this genus, as is very probable, should prove to be merely t^e decorti- 

 cated state of Ulodendron, this plant will be Ulodendron Huttoni, nobis. 



SiGiLLAKiA,! Brongt. 



Sub-genus Clathaki^, Br. 

 S. r n a t a , Br. 



2 spec. " S. ornata." Br. Ins. Coll. No. 238. 

 1 spec. "S. serlii, Br. Ins. CoU. No. 240. 



Sub-genus Phitodolepis, Brong. 

 S. n o t a t a , Wood. 



Phytolithus notatus, Steinhaur. S. elliptica, Br. (»S. notata, Br.)?' 

 We have but little hesitation in uniting these forms. If S. notata, Brong., 

 is distinct from /?■. elliptica, Brong., it is also distinct from Phytolithus notatus. 

 Steinhauer, which is identical with S. elliptica. The sharp angles and pro- 

 longations from them, mentioned by Brongniart as characterizing S. notata, 

 Brong., do not exist, either in Steinhauer's figure, or in specimens in pos- 

 session of the Academy, which, in all probability, are Steinhauer's types. 



* Were it not for the possession of this type, we would not, perhaps, be warranted in 

 giving so positively the synonymy of this species ; but having this, we are enabled to 

 deride regarding the points above given. 



t In our classification of this genus we shall follow Goldenburg (Die Pflanzen, des 

 Steiukolen, von Saarbuck, 1857), and reduce the genera indicated by us (Pr. A. N. S. 

 1860), to the rank of sub-genera. Although we have some hesitation as to the propriety 

 of this, yet it is, perhaps, the better course, as these sub-genera approsiioate in indefinite- 

 ness to the genus Sigillaria. They have, without doubt, the same value as Syringoden- 

 dron, and, in our opinion, the Sigillaria constiiutes an order, and the present subgenera 

 the genera of it; bu' the weight of authority is against this. Under this classification 

 the 'Vmerican forms described by us will stand — S. perplexa.S camptotaenia, 

 S.solanuB,S. magnifica, S. psilophloeus. 



[Oct. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 44S 



We have, however, specimens so directly intei-mediate between S. notata, 

 Br., and S. elliptica, Br., that we think the two species must be united. If 

 not, S. notata, Br., will require a new name, and we would suggest ^. 

 Brongniartii. 



2 spec. "Phytolithus notatus." Yorkshire. J. P. Wetherill. Probably 

 part of Steinhauer's collection, and labelled in the same hand writing as his 

 other types, as weU as presented by the same individual. 



1 spec. " S. reniformis? " T. B. Wilson, M. D. 



S. orbicularis, Brong. 



1 spec. " S. orbicularis." Br. Ins. Coll. No. 242. 



? 1 spec. Br. Ins. Coll. No. 243. 



This specimen has the scars very much closer than in any figure we have 

 ever seen ; but we scarcely doubt its belonging to this species. 



S. transversalis, Brong. 



1 spec. "S. transversalis." Br. Ins. Coll. No. 205. 



S. pachyderma, Brong. (Decorticated.) 



1 spec. "S. pachyderma." Radstock. Br. Ins. Coll. No. 214. 



S. renif ormis , Brong. (Decorticated.) 



6 spec. "S. reniformis." Br. Ins. Coll. Nos. 220, 222, 223. 



S. nodosa, nobis. 



Favularia nodosa, L. et H. 



1 spec. "Favularia nodosa." Br. Ins. Coll. No. 253. 



S. tesselata, Brong. 



1 spec. "Phytolithus tesselatus." Shelf, near Bradford. (Steinhauer's 

 type.) J. P. Wetherill. 



S. Knorii. 



2 spec. England. R. E. Griffith. 



1 spec. "S. elegans." Br. Ins. Coll. No. 241. *. 



1 spec. Aberyschan. R. C. Taylor. 



Sub-genus Ditaxis, Wood. 

 S. alternans, L. etH. 



1 spec. "S. allied to alternans." Br. Ins. Coll. 218. 



Ulodendron, Rhode. 

 U. parmatum, nobis. 



Phytolithus parmatum, Steinhauer. 



Lepidostrobus, Brong. 

 L, variabilis, L. etH. 



2 spec. England. R. E. Griffith. 



Description of Several New Species of Plants. 

 BY S. B. BUCKLEY. 



Trillium T e x a n u m. — Leaves ovate-oblong, obtuse, sessile, smooth, or 

 subpubescent, longer than the peduncle. Petals white, ovate-lanceolate 

 acute, nearly equal or shorter than the sepals. Sepals oblong-ovate, obtuse. 

 Plant 6-9 inches high, leaves I2-2 inches long, 5 lines wide. Peduncle 6 lines 

 long. Sepals 6 Lines long, and 2 lines wide. Such is the size of a medium 

 specimen. Flowers in March. 



Banks of streams and low grounds. Panola County, Texas. 



i^sculus arguta. — Fruit covered with prickles. Stamens erect, or slightly 

 I860.] 




444 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



curved, much longer than the pale yellow corolla. Calyx campanulate, 

 divisions obtuse, pedicels short, wliole panicle subpubescent. Flowers dense. 

 Leaflets 7, glabrous, ovate-lanceolate, acute at both ends, sharply and unequally 

 serrate. Shrub 3-5 feet high, with a smooth bark. Flowers in March. Panicles 

 4-6 inches long. Leaflets 2-4 inches long. 

 HUls in the vicinity of Larissa, Texas. 



Halesia reticulata. — Leaves broad-ovate, pubescent on the midribs, 

 scabrous, obscurely dentate, teeth small, acute, under surface of leaves 

 pale, much reticulated. Fruit 4-winged, two lateral wings double in width 

 the others. Style long, mucronate. Leaves 4-5 inches long and 2-3J inches 

 broad. Fruit smooth, 1-1^ inches long, and 6-7 lines broad. Pedicles 5-7 

 lines long. Small trees, branches smooth, bark of trunk light gray, furrowed. 



Banks of streams tributary to the Red River, above Nachitoches, Louisiana. 



Fraxinus Nuttalli i. — Leaflets 5-7 , lanceolate, acute at both ends, irregu- 

 larly toothed, upper surface smooth, under surface pale and subpubescent 

 along the midribs, short-stalked, petioles long, glabrous, fruit ovate-lanceolate, 

 three-winged acute at both ends, branches smooth, bark of trunk gray, and 

 furrowed. Fruit about 2 inches long, by 5 lines broad. Leaflets 3-4 inches 

 long by 1 inch broad, sometimes unequal at base. 



In swamps, Wilcox County, Alabama. Small trees about 6 inches in 

 diameter, and 20-25 feet high. As Nuttall had not material for a complete 

 description, none can tell what is meant by his Fraxinus triptera; but as 

 possibly he may have intended the tree now described, I call it Nuttall's Ash. 



Carya Tex an a. — Leaflets 7-9, broad-ovate, or ovate-lanceolate, sharply 

 serrate, smooth on both sides, paler beneath, acute at apex, subobtuse or 

 acute at base. Staminate and pistillate catkins subpubescent. Fruit globular, 

 slightly 4-angled. Shell thin, separating to the base. Trees three to four feet 

 in diameter, and forty to fifty feet high. Bark of trunk very thick, deeply 

 and irregularly furrowed, not scaly. Leaflets 6-8 inches long, and 2-3 inches 

 broad. 



Dry soil. Common in Upper Louisiana, and in Texas extending as far west 

 as Atacosa County. " Thick bark, hickory." 



Quercus Shumardi i. — Leaves oblong, or obovate in outline, smooth, 

 deeply sinuate-pinnatifid, sinuses broad, convergent, 3-5 on each side, lobes 

 many-toothed, teeth sharply and setaceously acute. Acorn globular, or 

 ovoid-oblong, subacute, cup shallow, slightly turgid, scales acute. A large 

 tree with shining deep green leaves, those on the upper portion of the tree 

 being much and deeply lobed. The lunes are generally deeper near the 

 petiole than towards the apex of the leaf. Acorn resembles Q. rubra, but is 

 more acute, 1-lj inch long, and 6 lines to 1 inch broad. Limbs, trunk and 

 branches much like the water-oak, Q. aquatic a. Wood yellowish-white, 

 fine grained, and esteemed for rails, boards, and the frame-work of buildings. 

 I have measured specimens which were six feet in diameter, with an estimated 

 height of 70-80 feet. Its leaves retain their greenness long after the first 

 frosts, when those of the frost-oak, black-jack and scarlet-oak are dead. 



It occurs in Upper Louisiana, Eastern and Middle Texas. Shumard's Oak. 

 In honor of Dr. B. F. Shumard, State Geologist of Texas. 



Quercus Texana. — Leaves ovate-oblong in outline, smooth, both sides 

 deeply sinuate-pinnatifid, with broad, divergent sinuses, 3-5 on each side, 

 lobes 1-3 toothed, teeth acute setaceous. Nut ovoid, oblong, acute, cup 

 hemispherical, slightly turgid, scales acute, closely appressed. Tree 3-5 feet 

 in diameter, and 60-70 feet high, branches smooth, bark of trunk of a dark 

 slate color, slightly furrowed, very like Q. p h e 1 1 o s and Q. a q u a t i c a, with 

 which it is often associated. Lower leaves of this tree with lobes often 

 truncate, while the upper leaves have deep, broad, divergent sinuses, and the 



[Oct. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIxV. 445 



upper lobes prolonged somewhat like those of Q. falcata. Like the water 

 and willow-oaks, its leaves are green during the first of winter. Acorn about 

 1 inch long, and §-| inch broad. Leaves 4-8 inches long by 3-5 wide. A 

 beautiful tree, with dense, deep green foliage. Wood close-grained, white, or 

 of a light red color, and used for similar purposes as the Shumard Oak. 



Quercus Durandii. — Leaves obovate, entire, or slightly 3-lobed at apex, 

 with rudiments of one or more lobes at the margins, lobes very obtuse. When 

 mature, smooth on both sides. Acorn round, or ovoid rotund. Cup very 

 shallow, scales acute, closely appressed. Leaves 3-4 inches long, 1-2 inches 

 wide. Acorns i}— | inch long, about i inch wide, scarcely one-eighth of an inch 

 being included in the cup. Tree 2-3 feet in diameter, and 40-50 feet high. 

 bark of trunk, and branches light gray, scaly, resembling the white oak 

 (Q. Alba). The leaves are mostly entire, varying from obovate to oblong- 

 ovate. Wood white, close-grained, and very tough. It is o'ten worked into 

 splints for baskets to hold the picked cotton. Used for farming utensils, and 

 sought after to make screws for cotton gins. Called "Basket Oak," and 

 < ' Bastard White Oak. ' ' 



Wilcox County, Alabama, Upper Louisiana, and Middle and Southern 

 Texas. Durand's Oak. In honor of E. Durand, of Philadelphia. 



Quercus annul at a. — Leaves broad-ovate, entire or irregularly and 

 sparingly lobed, sinuses shallow, divergent lobes very obtuse, upper surface 

 smooth and bright green, under surface pale, smooth, or subpubescent, petioles 

 short. Acorn oblong-ovoid, with a depressed ring near the apex. Style 

 cylindrical, long, truncate, cup shallow, one-third the length of the acorn. 

 Acorn 5-9 lines long, and 3-4 lines broad. Leaves 2-4 inches long, mostly 

 lobed. Bark of trunk and branches light gray, scaly. Small tree or shrub, 

 bearing a great abundance of acorns. 



Common on the rocky limestone hills in the vicinity of Austin, Texas. 



Note on Quercm coccinea. 

 In Upper Louisiana and in Eastern Texas, last autumn, I often found 

 Q. coccinea with acorns depi-essed at the summit and leaves agreeing exactly 

 with Michaux's figure of that species, the accuracy of which has been questioned 

 by some boanists. It had not the scarlet leaves after frost which is said to 

 be characteristic of that species. Its bark is a dark gray or slate color, deeply 

 furrowed, and wood porous, of a reddish cast, and esteemed of little use. 



Myrmloa (Atta) molefaciens, " Stinging Aat," or "Mound-Making Ant," of 



Texas. 



BY S. B. BUCKLEY. 



Neuter. — Color reddish-brown, labium brownish-black, mandibles subfalcate 

 serrate, triangular, blackish-brown. Antennas two-jointed, the anterior joint 

 clavate, hairy, head disproportionately large, upper side rotund, occiput 

 truncate, under side of head longitudinally concave, with a dark line extending 

 along the middle of the cavity, mentum somewhat hairy, eyes black, thora.x 

 triangular, compressed, prothorax large, with a slight knot on the upper part 

 of each side, metathorax upper side two-spined, pedicle long, two-knotted, 

 anterior knot inclined forwards, legs long, slender, tarsi two-clawed, abdomen 

 smooth, smaller than the head, ovate, slightly hairy near the sting. Femabj 

 has head like the neuter, excepting its front is slightly hooded, thorax oval, 

 or rhomboidal in outline, knotted, compressed, slightly hairy, metathorax has 

 rudimentary spines, abdomen ovate, smooth on the upper part, with a few 

 scattering hairs on the under side. Wings not extending beyond the abdomen. 



These ants are the most numerous of any in Te.Kas, where they have frequent 



I860.] ' 31 




4:46 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



abodes in paths and roads, on the prairies and in the fields and woods. They 

 form their habitations in the ground, where they have many apartments 

 connected by tunnels about an inch in diameter. Some of their cellars have 

 deep shelves on all sides, where their food is stored. Their rooms are rarely 

 found at a greater depth than six feet, nor do their cavities often extend over 

 a greater area than from four to six feet diameter, over which, at the surface, 

 there is generally a more or less conical mound, sometimes as high as three 

 feet, with a principal entrance at its summit. This mound is merely the dirt 

 brought to the surface when they are making their tunnels and cellars. Many of 

 their dwellings have no mound at the surface, it having been washed away by 

 rains, and also either levelled by the hand of man or the feet of animals. We 

 first noticed the exodus of their males and females on the twenty-seventh of 

 last July, when the whole community were in a violent commotion. Then the 

 males and females issued from their doors in great crowds. Some flying awaj-, 

 while others were seized by the neuters and dragged struggling off. During 

 the following month the females began to form new columns, commencing by 

 a few neuters joining a female and digging a small hole to shelter her. This 

 is daily and nightly enlarged, until its inhabitants and rooms become so 

 numerous that it also sends forth swarms of females, and neuters to found 

 new cities. 



Their chief food is the seed of various plants and grasses, but, like most 

 ants, they also eat flesh. They boldly attack all beetles and worms who 

 venture near their doors, when great numbers seize the unlucky intruder, and, 

 if it be a beetle, its legs are seized and body covered with ants, who bite and 

 sting at the same moment, by which the beetle is soon killed, unless at the 

 first he flies; and we have seen beetles fly away with ants hanging to their 

 legs, nor did the ants let go, at least while the beetle was in sight. The 

 stinging ant does not work during the hot sunshine ; but they labor at night 

 and during the cool of the day. On cloudy days their work continues. Indeed, 

 night is the busy time, among all or nearly all of the ants of Texas. Seeds of 

 various grasses and flowers are the principal food of the stinging ants, who, in 

 seed-time during the summer, lay up stores of food for the winter season, when 

 " Northers " come and storms rage, and confine the ants within doors sometimes 

 a week or more at a time. One of their habitations in Dr. Linsecom's garden, 

 at Long Point, in Washington County, Texas, was dug into to the depth of 

 about two feet, and large quantities of water thrown in to destroy the ants. 

 They recovered, and for several days after were busily engaged in bringing 

 their store of seeds to the surface to dry. A part of these, by heat and 

 moisture were sprouted, and unfit for preserving for future use, and these, 

 when dry, were not taken back to their cellars. Most of the seeds were those 

 of a species of geranium (Erodium Texanum). Miss Sallie Linsecom, a 

 daughter of the Doctor, went into the garden daily to see the ants bring out 

 their store of seeds, which she told us were more than half a bushel. 



Mr. C. G. Caldwell, who resides on the Colorado river, about eighteen miles 

 below Austin, has lately been digging in order to exterminate a nest. While 

 there, recently, we became acquainted with the shape of their cellars and 

 winding tunnels. Their apartments are rarely more than six or eight inches 

 in diameter, with shelves, as before stated. Often a tunnel descends vertically 

 to a room, then horizontally to another apartment, then up nearly perpen- 

 dicularly to other cells, which last rarely become wet even by very heavy rains. 

 Mr. Caldwell assured us that he had often seen their shelves full of seeds. By 

 such an arrangement of their rooms they avoid storing seeds in heaps where 

 they would be apt to spoil. During a very heavy rain at Cedar Creek Post- 

 ofiice, in Bastrip County, that whole region seemed to be flooded; and we 

 waited with some impatience for the storm to abate, in order to see its damage 

 to the ant, — the stinging ants having many nests in a prairie, which the rain 

 had covered with water. Next day we saw them bringing to the surface 



[Oct. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 4i7 



grass seeds to dry from their cellars. Every ant-hill in the vicinity had more 

 or less seed strown around their outer doors. A few days later we visited the 

 same locality, and the seeds had disappeared, — having doubtless been stored 

 away again by the ants. 



They cannot carry as heavy burdens as the cutting ant (Mj-rmica Texana) 

 nor do they, like that ant, place their load upon their backs, but carry it with 

 their mandibles and head ; and, whatever they wish to take home, is, if too 

 large, cut into segments to be thus transported. 



The stinging ants are generally peaceable in their habits, rarely fighting 

 with other species, or among themselves. In one or two instances we have 

 noticed two different houses, situated a few rods distant, connected by a well 

 beaten path, along which ants were passing back and forth, from one house 

 to the other, in the greatest harmony ; but one of these may have been a colony 

 founded by the other. 



Once we noticed two of these ants, which probably belonged to dififerent 

 houses, combating in an ant-path, along which a few ants were passing to and 

 fro. Occasionally one of these would stop a moment, look at the contest and 

 pass on. The struggle was obstinate and long. We became tired of the sifht 

 and, after considerable trouble, succeeded in parting them, — both being quite 

 lame. One we put far awaj^, and left the other walking slowly around in 

 search of his enemy, when, on reaching the path, he seized the first ant he met 

 and the fight was more animated than ever, — one of the parties beino- robust 

 and untired. Suddenly they stopped, looked a moment, and then began 

 caressing each other, soon after which thej- started side by side for their 

 town, not far distant. It seemed as if the first fighter, blinded by rage, had 

 lastly fought his own brother. We have been stung several times by them 

 and think the pain about equal to that caused by the sting of the honey-bee. 



Descriptions of New Carboniferous Fossils from Illinois and other Western 



States. 



BY F. B. MEEK AND A. II. WORTHEN, 

 Of the Illinois State Geological Survey * 



Z P H Y T A . 



SPHENOPOTERIUM, (new gen.) 



(rp»v, a wedge ; 7roT>i^i:v, a cup. 



Corallum free, (or attached ?) cuneate or irregularly subturbinate, and pro- 

 vided with a few large inseparable cells, which increase in number by lateral 

 and interstitial development. External wall rather dense, but perforated by a 

 few pores, which seem to terminate in the cancellated substance of the coral 

 without reaching the cells ; surface marked by numerous fine, anasto- 

 mosing striae. Cells circular, or when crowded, more or less angular; without 

 diaphragms, columella, or well developed rays, their walls being merely 

 marked by distinct vertical striae, and pierced by numerous pores which appear 



•Illustrations with more extended descriptions, remarks, &c., to appear in the 

 forlhcoming report of the Illinois survey. 



Note. — While investigating the fossils described in this and our paper published in tlie 

 last number of the Proceedings, we have been placed under many obligations to the Sec- 

 retary of the Smithsonian Institution, for the free use of the extensive collections of 

 works on PalEEOUtoloy, Geology, and various branches of Natural History, belonging lo 

 the Smithsonian library. Also, for the use of rooms in the Institution, and for access to 

 the large and rapidly accumulating geological and palrcontological collections in the 

 Smithsonian Museum. 



I860.] 




448 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



to terminate in the porous substance of the corallum, between the cells, with- 

 out directly connecting them. 



This small group of corals appears to be more nearly related to Cyathoceris. 

 of Edwards and Haime, than to any other genus, either recent or fossil, with 

 which we are acquainted. It differs, however, in having the outer walls per- 

 forated, and in being destitute of distinct rays, as well as in the peculiar 

 wedge-like form of the base of the corallum, which is also usually, if not 

 always, free instead of attached. "We regard the first of the following species 

 as the type of the genus. 



Sphesopoterium OBTUSUM. — Corallum short, abrupt Cuneiform, wider than high ; 

 base carinate, nearly straight, or very slightly sinuous in the middle ; sides 

 expanding rapidly upwards from the keel. Cells from four to about nine, 

 comparatively large, generally rather deep, conical, and where not more than 

 four or five, rounded, and separated by thick interstices, but becoming angular, 

 with thin intervening partitions, where more crowded. Surface striae fine, 

 and showing a tendency to converge towards the middle of the base, often 

 anastomosing, so as to form a kind of shagreen-like style of ornament. 



Length or height of a large specimens with nine cells, inch ; breadth, 



inch; thickness, inch; diameter of one of the cells, 0-29 inch. 



Locality and position. 



Sphexopoterium compressum. — Corallum compressed,wider than high, carinate 

 on each lateral margin, and apparently retaining a scar of attachment at the 

 middle of the base ; sides sulcate betweeen the cells, widening rapidly upwards 

 on the edges, and very gradually on the sides. Cells three or more, com- 

 paratively large, rather deep, rounded, with thin walls ; arranged in a row 

 parallel to the longer transverse diameter of the corallum. Surface finely 

 shagreened by the anastomosing of the striae. 



Length or height, 0-57 inch ; breadth, 0-93 inch ; thickness, 0'35 inch ; 

 diameter of cells, 0-26 inch. 



It is possible this may be a variety of the preceding species, though its com- 

 pressed form, thinner walls, and lateral carina?, give it quite a different aspect. 



Locality and position. Same as last. 



Sphenopoterium enorme. — Corallum small, subglobose, obtusely subturbi- 

 nate ; rounded, and apparently retaining some remains of a scar of attach- 

 ment at the base. Cells four or more, rather irregularly disposed, circular, 

 and moderately deep. Surface slightly more coarsely marked than the last, 

 but otherwise similar. 



Height, 0-45 inch ; transverse diameter about 0-43 inch ; breadth of cells, 

 about 0-18 inch. 



Locality and position. Rockford, Indiana, from beds probably of upper De- 

 vonian age, but containing Carboniferous Goniatites. 



Sphenopoterium cuneatum. — Corallum compressed, cuueate, longer than wide, 

 base sharp, a little rounded on the lateral edges. Cells from two or three, to 

 five or six, rather deep, arranged alternately on each lateral edge, and directed 

 obliquely outward and upward ; rounded or somewhat oval at the aperture, and 

 more or less compressed towards the base ; sometimes having one or two 

 slightly prominent ridges extending part of the way up the sides ; punctae of 

 the walls numerous and distinct. Surfiice striae fine, closely arranged, rather 

 regular, and minutely crenulate, directed obliquely inward and downward 

 from the cells, and passing more or less nearly parallel to each other to the 

 base, on the lower flattened half. 



Length, 0-75 inch; breadth, 0-43 inch; thickness, 0-21 inch; diameter of 

 cells, about 0-15 inch. 



Locality and position. Spurgen Hill, la. From beds generally considered on 



parallel with the Warsaw Limestone. 



[Oct. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 449 



ECHINODERMx\TA. 



ASTERIDjE. 



Genus PALASTERINA, McCoy. 



Subgenus Schoenaster. 



The specimens of the beautiful star-fish, upon which we propose to found 

 this subgenus, are unfortunately not in a condition to enable us to work out 

 fully the details of its structure. As far as can be determined, however, it 

 agrees in most of its characters with Palasterina, though it differs from the 

 typical species of that genus [Uraster primcevus, Forbes) in having the adam- 

 bulacral plates arranged with their longer diameter directed obliquely out- 

 ward, instead of at right angles to that of the rays. This oblique arrange- 

 ment, or lateral imbrication of these pieces, gives to each range, as seen from 

 below, a peculiar twisted or rope-like appearance, which suggested the name 

 Schoenaster (^tr^om; a rope, oVtii^, a star.) 



Although we place it for the present as a subgenus under Palasterina, we 

 think it more than probable that when better specimens can be examined, it 

 will be found to present other differences of sufficient importance to entitle it 

 to rank as a distinct genus, in which case it can retain as a generic name that 

 by which we have designated it as a subgenus. 



Palasterina (^Schoenaster) timbriata. — Body depressed, pentagonal, the 

 angles being extended into narrow, acutely pointed rays or arms, which are 

 convex above, and about equal in length to the diameter of the disk. Upper 

 side of the disk and arms composed of small, solid, convex, or somewhat 

 tumid plates. Ambulacra! furrows deep* rather narrow, and bounded on each 

 side by the single row of oblique adambulacral pieces, which also form the 

 sides of the arms, beyond the disk, where some six or seven of these pieces 

 occupy a space of 0-35 inch. Disk apparently not provided with a regular 

 range of marginal pieces ; concave in outline between the rays, where it is, 

 like the sides of the arms, fringed by a single range of short, lanceolate spines. 



The plates forming the upper side of the rays near the disk, are hexagonal, 

 pentagonal, or irregular in form, and consist of about five or six ranges be- 

 tween the marginal rows, with a few much smaller intercalated pieces. 

 Farther out they gradually pass into two mesial ranges of oblong, alternating 

 pieces, arranged with their longer diameter parallel to that of the ray ; and 

 two series of much smaller, pentagonal or hexagonal alternating jilates on 

 each side, between the middle ranges and the adambulacral rows. Towards 

 the extremities of the rays, these two ranges of small j^ieces on each side 

 diminish in size, and at last become obsolete, leaving only the adambulacral 

 and middle ranges. 



None of the specimens are in a condition to show the form and arrange- 

 ment of the plates forming the disk, nor the position of the vent and madre- 

 poriform plate. Near the extremities of the arms the dorsal pores, which are 

 comparatively small, pass chiefly between the ends of the oblong plates, form- 

 ing the two mesial ranges ; but farther in, towards the disk, thej' seem to be 

 somewhat irregularly distributed. There appear to be five bilobate, oral 

 pieces, but we suspect each of these is divided by a close fitting suture, so as 

 to make ten in the entire series. 



Greater diameter, 2-37 inches; lesser do., 0-89 inch ; breadth of ambulacral 

 furrows, about 0-10 inch; length of marginal spines, 0-07 inch. 



Locality and position. St. Clair county, Illinois, St. Louis Limestone of 

 Lower Carboniferous series. 



I860.] 




450 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



M L L U S C x\ . 



BRACHIOPODA. 



Genus CHONETES, Fischer. 



Chonetes planusiboxa. — Shell of medium size, nearly semicircular ; length 

 from two-thirds to three-fourths the breadth ; hinge line ahouf equalling the 

 greatest breadth ; front rounded, or forming with the sides a nearly semi- 

 circular curve ; lateral margins intersecting the hinge at right-angles, or 

 sometimes very slightly sinuous near the ears. Ventral valve gibbous, most 

 convex in the middle, and flattened at the umbo, destitute of any traces of a 

 mesial sinus ; ears a little compressed ; cardinal margin sloping slightly from 

 the beak, on each side of which it is armed with five or six spines ; area of 

 moderate breadth ; foramen broad, triangular, the upper angle being rounded. 

 Dorsal valve concave, or following nearly the curve of the other valve ; cardinal 

 ]3rocess moderately prominent, nearly or quite closing the foramen of the 

 opposite valve ; interior without a prominent mesial ridge, rather distinctly 

 granulose, the granules being arranged in radiating lines ; visceral scar rather 

 large ; impressions of aductor muscles small and deep. Surface of both valves 

 apparently smooth or only marked by obscure undulations of growth, but 

 showing under a lens nearly obsolete traces of depressed rounded radiating 

 striae, crossed by minute concentric lines or wrinkles. 



Length 0-42 inch ; breadth 0-49 inch; convexity 0-16 inch. 



Locality and position. Monroe County, Illinois. Keokuk Limestone of 

 Lower Carboniferous series. 



Genus PRODUCTUS, Sowerby. 



Pkodcctcs xaxcs. — Shell very small, nearly hemispherical ; hinge about 

 equalling the greatest breadth ; anterior side regularly rounded ; sides 

 intersecting the hinge nearly at right-angles. Ventral valve gibbous, without 

 any traces of a mesial sinus ; ears triangular, convex, and moderately distinct 

 from the swell of the visceral region ; umbo convex, incurved, and apparently 

 extending slightly beyond the hinge line. Surface ornamented by compara- 

 tively large, rounded, radiating costse, wliich more than equal the depressions 

 between, on the convex part of the valve, but decrease in size, and become 

 more numerous by division, and the implantation of others between, around 

 the anterior slope ; crossed by numerous very fine concentric strise, only visible 

 under a lens. The visceral region is also marked by moderately distinct 

 rather regular wrinkles, while the bases of a few scattering spines are seen 

 on the anterior slope. (Dorsal valve unknown.) 



Length 0'37 inch ; breadth 0-45 inch ; convexity 0*25 inch. 



Locality and position. JeflTerson County, Iowa. Lower Coal measures. 



Productus PAEvrs. — Shell rather small, nearly hemispherical, without any 

 traces of a mesial sinus ; length and breadth nearly equal ; hinge about 

 equalling the greatest breadth ; front rounded ; sides sometimes slightly 

 sinuous near the ears. Ventral valve gibbous, regularly arched, not depressed 

 ill the visceral region ; beak incurved a little beyond the hinge ; ears small, 

 convex, nearly rectangular at the extremities of the hinge, moderately distinct 

 from the swell of the umbo. Dorsal valve deeply concave, particularly in 

 the middle and towards the beak. Surface of both valves ornamented by 

 numerous small, rounded, rather closely arranged, occasionally bifurcating 

 striae, about six of which may be counted in the space of one-tenth of an inch. 

 Spines erect, apparently confined to the ventral valve, each ear of which 

 supports some seven or eight, while there are usually about three times that 

 number scattered around the anterior and lateral slopes. Sometimes very 



[Oct. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 451 



obscure traces of small concentric wrinkles are indistinctly visible near the 

 beak and on the ears, particularly of the ventral valve. 



Length 0-59 inch ; breadth 0-60 inch ; convexity of ventral valve 0'34 inch. 



This shell might be mistaken for an imperfect sp?cimen of P. fasciculatus of 

 McChesney, from which species it differs, however, in having finer striae, a 

 more deeply coujave dorsal valve, ani in being always destitute of a mesial 

 sinus in the ventral valve. . When goo I specimens of these species can be 

 compared they may be distinguished at a glance, by the more extended 

 anterior, and the fasciculate character of the striae upon that part of the shell in 

 P. fasciculatus, 



Localit'j ani position. Chester, Illinois. Chester, Limestone of Lower 

 Carboniferous series. 



Productus scitl'lus. — Shell small, gibbous, wider than long, hinge line 

 rather more than equalling the breadth of the central part of tlie valves ; 

 anterior side rounded, or sometimes a little flattened; sides rounding to the 

 front, and somewhat contracted near the ears, ^'^eatral valve gibbous, rather 

 strongly arched, moderately produced, ani presenting scarcely any indications 

 of a sinus ; ears triangular, convex, or somewhat vaulted, and separated from 

 the swell of the umbo and the prominent visceral region, by a ra,ther 

 distinct rounded depression ; beak convex, incurved and apparently extend- 

 ing a little beyond the hinge line. Surface marked by numerous fine, 

 regular, radiatiug strife, about seven of which may hi counted in the space of 

 one-tenth of an inch ; crossing these there are on the visceral region small, 

 irregular concentric wrinkles; a few scattering bases of spines are also 

 sometimes seen on the antei'ior slope (in casts), where two or three of the 

 striae become more prominent than the others. (Dorsal valve unknown). 



Length, from beak to anterior slope, 0-3t3; do., from beak to anterior 

 margin, measuring over the curve of the ventral valve, 0*45 inch. 



Localiti/ and position. Alton, Illinois. St. Louis Limestone, of Lower 

 ('arboniferous series. 



Genus RHYNCHONELLA, Fischer. 



RnrxcnoxELLA sn3TRiG0>'A. — Shell rather above medium size, trigonal 

 subglobose, wider than long, truncated in front, and on each postero-lateral 

 slope ; anterior margins of the valves sharply and deeply serrate;!. Ventral 

 valve nearly fiat, or arching a little from the umbo along the middle towards 

 the front, on each side of which the antero lateral margins are at first elevated, 

 then very abruptly deflected toward the other valve ; front curving down 

 nearly at right-angles to the plane of tlie valve, and extended so as to fill a 

 broad, deep, rather rounded sinus in the front of the other valve ; ijostero- 

 lateral margins very abruptly deflected downwards ; beak small, rather 

 pointed, incurved, and extended somewhat beyond that of the other valve ; 

 mesial sinus broad, shallow, undefined, and not extending more than half-way 

 back from the front. Ventral valve gibbous, elevated in the middle near the 

 anterior side, thence sloping abruptly, with a moderately convex outline to 

 the beak ; antero-lateral and lateral margins curving strongly to meet those 

 of the opposite valve; mesial fold not well defined. Surface of each valve 

 ornamented by from eighteen to twenty-four rather rouuded plications, about 

 four or five of which occupy the mesial sinus and fold ; fine obscure, concentric 

 striae are also seen on well-preserved specimens. 



Length (of a me lium-sized rather gibbous specimen), 0"90 inch ; breadth 

 0"98 inch; convexity 0*91 inch. 



Localiti/ and position. Keokuk Limestone, Warsaw, Illinois. 



Genus ATHYRIS, McCoy.=SPIRIGERA, D'Orbigny. 



Athyris p.\rvirostra. — Shell of medium size, subquadrate, moderately 

 gibbous, length and bre.adth about equal, sometimes a little wider than long ; 



I860.] 




452 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



greatest convexity near the middle of the valves, which are equally convex. 

 Lateral margins rather narrowly rounded in the middle, thence converging 

 with a slightly convex ontline to the middle of the front, which is faintly 

 subtruucate ; from the most prominent part of the lateral margins, they 

 converge to the beaks at an angle of about 97°. Both valves witliout a distinct 

 mesial fold or sinus, though they are each sometimes marked by a narrow, 

 scarcely perceptible flattening along the middle. Beak of ventral valve small, 

 slender, and closely incurved upon that of the opposite valve, which is little 

 less prominent. Surface marked by fine lines of growth, and small, rather 

 obscure, cunceutric wrinkles. Internal spiral appendages, each making about 

 twelve turns. 



Breadth of a rather wide specimen 0-82 inch ; length of do. 0*75 inch ; 

 convexity 0-52 inch. 



Locality and position. Near Warsaw, Illinois. Keokuk Limestone of Lower 

 Cahoniferous series. 



CONCHIFERA. 

 Genus PECTEN, Linnseus. 



Pectex TE>'uiriiXEAT0s. — Shell rather small, broad ovate or subcircular, ven- 

 tral border regularly rounded ; posterior edge forming a hroad, gentle curve 

 along the middle and below, and intei-secting the hinge above at an angle of 

 about 110'^ ; anterior margin rounding regularly into the base from near the 

 middle ; hinge short, or about half the length of tbe valves, from the posterior to 

 the anterior side. Right valve compressed ; posterior ear nearly obsolete, flat, 

 and not separated from the posterior margin by a sinus ; anterior ear larger 

 than the other, rounded at the extremity, and separated from the margin 

 below by a deep, acutely angular sinus, from the extremity of which there is 

 a sulcus extending obliquely upward in the direction of the umbo ; beak 

 rather compressed, located slightly behind the middle of the hinge, and not 

 extending above its margin ; surface apparently smooth, hut showing under 

 a good magnifier extremely fine, closely arranged concentric strise, which be- 

 come much stronger on the anterior ear. (Left valve unknown.) 



Height, from ventral margin to the hinge, 0'56 inch; breadth, from an- 

 terior to posterior side, 0'53 inch; length of hinge, 0"27 inch; convexity of 

 right valve, O'OS inch. 



Locality and postion. South line of Clinton county, Illinois. Upper Coal 

 Measures; associated with Modiola tenniradiata (=Mi/tilus tenuiradiatus, 

 Swallow), and Ai'icula ? longispina, (^= GerviUia longispina, Cox,) or a closely 

 allied species. 



Genus AVICULOPECTEN, McCoy. 



AvicuLOPECTEX OwENi. — Shell small, truncatosubcircular ; base regularly 

 rounded, posterior rdargin rounding from above the middle to the ventral 

 border; anterior side rounded below; hinge equalling about two-thirds the 

 diameter of the valves, from the posterior to the anterior side. Left valve 

 moderately convex ; anterior ear compressed, separated from the swell of the 

 umbo by a rounded shallow depression, and defined by a shallow sinuosity of 

 the anterior margin; having the form of an equilateral triangle, the anterior 

 side of which is shorter than either of the others, very slightly rounded at 

 the nearly rectangular extremity ; posterior ear a little smaller than the 

 other, compressed, very short, and not separated from the margin below by a 

 distinct sinus, terminating in an obtuse angle of more than 100" ; umbo 

 rather convex, located apparently a little behind the middle of the hinge, and 

 scarcely extending beyond its margin ; surface ornamented by numerous fine, 

 closely arranged, radiating strije, which increase by implantation, and are 

 crossed by a few irregular concentric marks of growth. 



Diameter, from ventral margin to liinge, 0-48 inch ; do. from the anterior 



[Oct. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 453 



to the posterior margin, 0-50 inch ; length of hinge, 0-35 inch ; number of 

 striae in 0.10 inch near the ventral margin, about 13. 



Named in honor of Dr. D. D. Owen, the well known Western geologist. 



Locality and posit on. Near Warsaw, Illinois. Keokuk Limestone of Lower 

 Carboniferous series. 



AvicuLOPECTEN CoxANus. — Shell (left valve) rather small, very thin, com- 

 pressed, broad subtrigonal ovate in outline, exclusive of the ears, slightly 

 oblique ; anterior and posterior sides rounding from below the ears to the 

 base, which is regularly rounded ; anterior ear of moderate size, triangular, 

 and flattened, so as to be quite distinct from the umbonal slope, separated from 

 the margin below by a broad, subangular sinus; slightly rounded at the ex- 

 tremity, and marked by about eight small radiating costae, which are crossed 

 by smaller and less regular marks of growth ; posterior ear of nearly the same 

 size as the other, flattened, but not very distinct from the umbonal slope, 

 separated from the posterior margin by a regularly rounded, moderately deep 

 sinus — acutely pointed at the extremity ; hinge a little less than the breadth 

 of the shell, and ranging nearly at right angles to its longer axis ; beak com- 

 pressed, scarcely projecting beyond the cardinal margin, and located very 

 slightly in advance of the middle. Surface ornamented by small, simple, 

 depressed, rigid costje, which alternate in size, the smaller ones dying out at 

 various distances between the margin and the umbo. (Right valve unknown.) 



Length, or transverse diameter, 0'51 inch ; height, from base to hinge, 

 0*53 inch ; convexity (of left valve) 0*05 inch. 



Dedicated to Edward T. Cox, Esq., of the Geological Survey of Kentucky. 



Locality and position. Adams county, Illinois, dark bituminous Shale of 

 Coal Measures. 



AvicuLOPECTEN BuRLiNGTONENSis. — Shell of about medium size, very thin and 

 fragile, suborbicular, slightly wider than long, broadly and regularly rounded 

 on the ventral margin, more narrowly rounded near the middle on each side, 

 thence sloping towards the beak at an angle of about 100* ; hinge straight, 

 between two-thirds and three-fourths as long as the transverse diameter of 

 of the valves, and ranging at right angles to their longitudinal axis. Left 

 valve much compressed ; anterior ear of moderate size, flat, subtriaugular, the 

 anterior side being shorter tlian either of the others, and rounding somewhat 

 into the hinge, — defined by a broad rectangular sinus at its base ; posterior 

 ear flat, separated from the border below by a wide, rather deep subangular 

 sinus, and terminating in an angle of about 45'^ ; beak compressed, and located 

 a little in advance of the middle of the hinge. Surface ornamented by eighty to 

 ninety small, nearly equal, radiating costre, which increase by implantation, 

 and about equal tlie breadth of the depressions between. Costse crossed by 

 numerous very regular, undulating, and distinctly imbricating, concentric 

 laminje of growth, which become closely arranged, and sharply elevated 

 on the ears, where the radiating ribs are not developed. (Right valve 

 unknown.) 



Diameter, from the ventral border to the hinge, about 2'18 inches ; do. from 

 the anterior to the posterior side, 2*30 inches ; convexity, near 0'30 inch ; 

 length of hinge, 1*63 inch ; number of radiating costae in 0.40 inch near the 

 ventral margin, 10 to 12 ; number of concentric imbricating lamella in same 

 space, about 18. 



Locality and position. Burlington, Iowa. Burlington Division of the Lower 

 Carboniferous series. 



AvicuLOPECTKx KoNiNCKii. — Shell large, subcircuLir, rather compressed, 

 wider parallel to the hinge than the diameter at right angles to the same ; 

 broadly rounded on the pallial margin, and more narrowly rounded on each 

 side a little below the middle. Hinge straight, apparently rather less than 

 the greatest breadth of the valves below, and ranging very nearly at right 



I860.] 




4D4 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



angles to the vertical axis of the shell. Left ? valve compressed ; anterior ear 

 flat, having the form of an inequilateral triangle, the anterior side of which is 

 much shorter than either of the others ; — rather acutely angular at the ex- 

 tremity, and separated from the margin below by a nearly rectangular notch ; 

 posterior ear apparently nearly of the same size as the other, compressed, and 

 separated from the margin below by a rounded, moderately deep sinus : beak, 

 small, compressed, and not extending above the hinge ; surface marked by 

 rather small, obscure, depressed, radiating costae, which are crossed by a few 

 faint marks of growth. 



Greatest breadth parallel to the hinge, a little below the middle, B.39 

 inches ; diameter at right angles to the same, 3 inches ; length of hinge 3 

 inches. 



A fragment, probably of the other valve of the same species, embedded in 

 the same mass with that described above, has much more prominent and 

 more angular costfe, crossed by smaller, closely arranged concentric lines, so 

 as to give them a slightly crenulated appearance. 



Named in honor of Prof. L, De Koninck, the distinguished palaeontologist of 

 Liege. 



Locality and position. Alpine, Iowa. Lower Coal Measures. 



AviccLOPECTES ixTERLiNEATtJS. — Shell rather small, compressed, broad ovate 

 or subcircular, exclusive of the ears ; length and breadth nearly equal ; hinge 

 straight, scarcely equalling the greatest breadth, ranging at right angles 

 to the axis of the shell. Left valve with base regularly rounded ; posterior 

 and anterior margins prominent near the middle, and rounding to the pallial 

 margin, rather distinctly sinuous under the ears ; anterior ear triangular, 

 flattened, so as to be quite distinct from the umbonal slope ; posterior ear 

 somewhat larger than the otlier, compressed, triangular, tlie hinge side being 

 longer than either of the others, rather acutely angular at the extremity ; 

 beak a little nearer the anterior than the posterior side, not oblique ; surface 

 ornamented by about fifteen regular, very prominent, slender, concentric 

 costse, separated by spaces some four or five times their own breadth ; spaces 

 between the costae occupied by numerous very fine, regular, closely arranged 

 concentric striae, which are crossed by very obscure traces of radiating ribs. 



Diameter, from hinge to pallial border, 0-60 inch ; breadth 0-62 inch ; con- 

 vexity. 0*12 inch. (Right valve unknown.) 



Locality and position. Lasalle, Illinois. Upper Coal Measures, 



AviccLOPECTEX AMPLus. — Shell large, distinctly inequivalve ; height and 

 breadth about equal ; ventral margin regularly rounded ; posterior and anterior 

 sides rounding to the base ; hinge line straight, less than the breadth of the 

 valves. Left valve convex, particularly in the umbonal region ; posterior 

 ear very short, obtusely subangular, and sometimes defined by an obscure 

 sinus in the margin below ; anterior ear separated from the swell of the umbo by 

 a more or less deeply rounded sulcus, (form unknown ;) beak rather gibbous, 

 incurved, slightly oblique, and extending a little above the hinge. Surface 

 ornamented by distinct, narrow, rather elevated, obscurely subnodose, 

 radiating plications, separated by spaces five to seven times their breadth, and 

 crossed by fine, indistinct lines and wrinkles of growth ; between the costse 

 there are also fine radiating strife, one or two of which are often larger than 

 the others. Right valve flat, or a little concave ; posterior ear short, nearly 

 rectangular, the margin below it being faintly sinuous ; anterior ear also short, 

 and separated from the margin below by a very deep, narrow, somewhat arched 

 and angular sinus ; beak entirely obsolete ; surface smooth, or only having 

 indistinct marks of growth, and a few faint radiating lines. 



The hinge area of both valves is rather broad, and marked parallel to its 

 margin by fine grooves. In the left valve it is slightly inclined towards the 

 right side, over that of the other valve, in which it is also inclined^ backwards 



roct. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 455 



ill the same direction. An internal cast of one of tlie left vales shows a large, 

 circular, muscular impression, located a little behind the middle of the valve. 



Height, 3"67 inches; breadth, 3'69 inches; convexity of left valve, 0.70 

 inch ; number of radiating costffi in 0"S8 inch, at a distance of 2 inches from 

 the beak, five. 



In the shortness of its ears, the deep sinus in the anterior edge of its right 

 valve, and its surface markings, this species seems to bear close relations to 

 the typical forms of the genus Monotis, but it wants the cartilage-pit under 

 the beak, said to be characteristic of that genus, while its geological position 

 is far below the range of any of the known species of Monotis. 



Locality and position. Monroe county, Illinois. Keokuk Limestone of 

 Lower Carboniferous series. 



AvicuLOPECTEN PELLuciDus. — Shell Small, extremely thin, broad subovate or 

 suboircular, exclusive of the ears, slightly obliqne ; hinge margin straight, 

 less than the greatest diameter of the valves, from the front to the posterior 

 side ; ventral margin nearly regularly rounded ; anterior edge rounded near 

 the middle, and passing by a slightly oblique curve into the ventral border ; 

 posterior margin most prominent below the middle. Left valve much com- 

 pressed ; anterior ear rather small, triangular, flattened and distinct from the 

 umboual slope, separated from the anterior edge by a broad, subangular 

 sinus ; posterior ear about the same size as the other, flat, and terminating 

 in a rather acute angle, separated from the posterior margin by a broad, very 

 shallow, rounded sinus ; beak compressed, or but slightly convex, and located 

 near the middle of the hinge. Surface ornamented by very fine, radiating, 

 thread-like striae, which increase by implantation, and are generally rather 

 smaller than the depressions between ; crossing these are equally fine, regular, 

 less distinct, concentric lines. (Right valve unknown.) 



Diameter from ventral margin to the hinge, 0*36 inch ; breadth from the 

 posterior to the anterior side, 0*35 inch ; length of hinge, 0*23 inch ; number 

 of radiating strise in O'lO inch, at the ventral margin, about 12. 



Locality and position. Adams county, Illinois. Coal Measures, in dark 

 bituminous shale. 



Genus AVICULA, Klein. 



AvicuLA OBLONGA. — Shell small, nearly semicircular, slightly oblique ; hinge 

 straight, and longer than any other part of the valves. Left valve moderately 

 convex ; anterior wing triangular, compressed, separated by a broad, unde- 

 fined sulcus, from the swell of the umbo, very slight sinuous on its margin, 

 which intersects the hinge border nearly at right angles ; posterior wing 

 larger than the other, compressed, broadly sinuous in outline, and 

 terminating in an acute angle ; beak small, pointed, slightly oblique, in- 

 curved, and scarcely passing beyond the hinge line ; surface ornamented by 

 about twenty-six simple, sharply elevated, linear, radiating costae, separated 

 on the middle of the valve, by spaces from three to five times their own 

 breadth, and crossed by similar regularly disposed concentric lines, so as to 

 produce a neat, coarsely cancellated style of ornament. (Right valve 

 unknown.) 



Diameter from ventral margin to hinge, 0*39 inch; breadth from the pos- 

 terior to the anterior edge, 0'60 inch ; length of hinge, 0'56 inch ; convexity 

 of left valve, 0-07 inch. 



Locality and position. Warsaw, Illinois. Warsaw Limestone of Lower 

 Carboniferous series. 



Genus MYALINA, Koninck. 



Myalika asgulata. — Shell rather large, obliquely subovate, longer than 

 high, nearly or quite equivalve, very convex near the front, cuneate poste- 

 riorly and above ; hinge margin rather long, straight, and carinated ; posterior 



I860.] 




456 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



margin convex along the midlde, and rather distinctly concave in outline near 

 the hinge above ; base very abruptly rounded, or subangular near the front ; 

 anterior side oblique, nearly straight, broadly and distinctly flattened at right 

 angles to the plane of the valves; umbonal slopes extremely prominent, and 

 distinctly angular, ranging at an angle of 58° with the hinge line ; beaks ter- 

 minal, elevated a little above the hinge, incurved, acutely angular, and 

 strongly compressed at right angles to the hinge. Surface of casts retaining 

 rather obscure marks of growth. 



Height, measuring at right angles to the hinge, 3*32 inches ; length parallel 

 to the hinge, 3 inches ; length, measuring from the beaks obliquely, to the 

 most prominent part of the base, 3*35 inches ; convexity of the valves, 1'30 

 inch. 



Locality and position. Chester, Illinois. Chester Limestone of the Lower 

 Carboniferous series. 



Myalina concentkica. — Shell small, thin, rather compressed, subquadrate, 

 a little higher than long, not very oblique ; hinge straight, slightly less than 

 the length of the valves below ; anterior side a little arcuate, ranging at an 

 angle of about 85° with the hinge, and curving rather abruptly inward from the 

 umbonal slopes ; posterior side compressed, straight, or very slightly sinuous 

 in outline above, and intersecting the hinge at about the same angle as the 

 anterior border ; base regularly rounded ; beaks pointed, incurved, and 

 scarcely rising above the hinge ; umbonal slopes rather compressed ; surface 

 marked by slender, somewhat obscure, regularly arranged lines, separated 

 by smooth spaces some eight to ten times their own breadth. 



Height, 0-67 inch ; length, 0-59 inch; convexity of a left valve, about 0*22 

 inch. 



Locality and position. Spergen Hill, Indiana ; from an Oolitic bed contain- 

 ing great numbers of small fossils, described by Prof. Hall, and placed by him 

 on a parallel with the Warsaw Limestone of the Lower Carboniferous series. 



Myalina recuevirostra. — Shell of medium size, rather thick, obliquely 

 trigonal, ovate, inequivalve, (the left valve being more convex, and thicker 

 than the other, ) very gibbous, and narrowly rounded along the umbonal slopes : 

 hinge nearly or quite straight, more than equalling the height in young 

 specimens, but proportionally a little shorter in mature shells ; posterior 

 margin a little convex, ranging nearly at right angles to the hinge above, and 

 rounding gradually forward below ; base narrowly rounded ; anterior margin 

 oblique, or ranging at an angle of about 55° with the hinge, slightly convex 

 in outline, and separated by a shallow, oblique depression, from the umbonal 

 ridge above, and broadly sinuous along the middle ; beaks small, pointed, ter- 

 minal, that of the left valve being spirally incurved, so as to make nearly one 

 entire turn at the extreme point, wliich is directed obliquely forward ; surface 

 marked by distinct lines, and imbricating laminse of growth, which are quite 

 prominent on the anterior side, and near the cardinal margin of the left valve, 

 but more obscure on all parts of the other. 



The ligament area is comparatively narrow, and marked by longi- 

 tudinal furrows ; immediately under the beak the anterior margin is thickened , 

 so as to present a broader area than the hinge, from which it is separated, in 

 the left valve, by an oblique groove, and in the other by a prominent cor- 

 responding ridge. The posterior muscular impression is large, narrow, ovate, 

 acutely angular above, rounded below, and ranging nearly parallel to the pos- 

 terior border. The pallial line is well defined ; anterior muscular scar small, 

 oval, and located near the beaks. 



Length, measuring forward and upward from the postero-basal extremity 

 to the beaks, 2-10 inches ; height, 1'67 inch ; convexity, about 1 inch ; length 

 of posterior muscular scar, 0*75 inch ; breadth of do. at lower extremity, 0-28 

 inch. 



Locality and position. Near Springfield, Illinois. Coal Measures. 



[Oct. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 457 



Geniis SOLEMYA, Lamarck. 



SoLEMTA RADiATA. — Shell Very thin, narrow, or elongate subelliptical, 

 moderately convex ; ventral margin straight, or slightly concave along the 

 middle ; anterior (longer) side narrowly rounded at the extremity, the most 

 prominent part being a little above the middle ; posterior (shorter) side rather 

 narrowly rounded ; dorsal border nearly parallel to the base in front of the 

 beaks, and declining more rapidly, with a slightly concave outline behind 

 them. Surface with obscure concentric marks of growth, ci'ossed by fiat, 

 nearly obsolete, radiating plications, which are sometimes separated near the 

 middle of the valves, by spaces greater than their own breadth ; on the 

 anterior side, where they are very oblique, and more closely arranged, they 

 sometimes become irregular, and scarcely distinguishable from finer irregular 

 radiating striae ; not well defined on other parts of the shell. 



Length I'lO inch ; heighth 0-50 inch ; convexity 0-36 inch. 



Locality and position. Grayville, Illinois. CoaJ measures. 



Genus LEDA, Schumaker, 



Leda (Yoldia ?) LEViSTEiATA. — Shell rather under medium size, narrow 

 subovate, moderately convex in the central and anterior regions, more 

 compressed posteriorly ; base forming a broad semiovate curve, the most 

 prominent part of which is a little in advance of the middle ; anterior side 

 rounded ; posterior side somewhat contracted, or narrower than the other, 

 and more abruptly rounded at the extremity, which is a little gaping ; dorsal 

 margin declining gently, and rather concave behind the beaks, nearly 

 horizontal and slightly convex in front of them ; beaks depressed and located 

 a little behind the middle ; surface apparently smooth, but when examined 

 by the aid of a good lens it is seen to be marked by extremely fine, obscure, 

 regularly arranged concentric striae. 



Length 0-57 inch ; heighth 0-20 inch ; convexity 0-14 inch. 



Localiti) and position. Waterloo, Monroe County, Illinois. Upper part of 

 St. Louis Limestone, of the Lower Carboniferous series, where it was found 

 associated with some of the small fossils described by Prof. Hall, from 

 Spurgeon Hill, Indiana. 



Genus SCHIZODUS, King. 



ScHizoDus Chesterensis. — Shell rather large, transversely ovate, convex 

 in the anterior and umbonal regions, and cuueate posteriorly. Anterior 

 side regularly rounded ; base forming a broad, irregular, semiovate curve, 

 being usually slightly more prominent a little behind the middle than 

 elsewhere, thence nearly straight and ascending gradually to the posterior 

 extremity ; posterior side contracted, considerably longer than the other, and 

 abruptly rounded or subangular at the termination, the most salient part 

 being rather above the middle ; doi-sal margin nearly straight and declining 

 gradually behind the beaks, from which it rounds regularly into the anterior 

 margin in front. Beaks gibbous, rather elevated, incurved, and located less 

 than one-third the length of the shell from the buccal margin. Muscular 

 impressions shallow ; those in front ovate, placed near the margin, and a little 

 .above the middle ; those on the posterior side oval, and located near the 

 dorsal edge, about half-way between the beaka and the anal extremity. 

 Surface marked only by fine lines of growth. 



Length (of internal) 1'38 inches ; height 1 inch; convexity 0*78 inch. 



Resembles closely the Permian species Axinus obxcurus, Sowerby, but is less 

 elevated in proportion to length, and has rather more oblique umbones ; while 

 the most salient part of its posterior margin is a little above, instead of below 

 the middle. It is usually found in the condition of internal casts. 



Locality and position. Chester, Illinois. Upper part of Chester Limestone, 

 of the Lower Carboniferous series. 



1860.J 




458 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Genus CARDIOMORPHA, Koiiinck. 



Cakdiomorpha kadiata. — Shell subrircular, gibbous in the central and umbonal 

 regions, base more narrowly rounded than the front or anal margin ; cardinal 

 border a little arched ; beaks gibbous, abruptly pointed, incurved and showing 

 a tendency to curve forward at the immediate points, depressed or rising 

 but little above the hinge margin ; surface ornamented by numerous fine, 

 regular, radiating, rather rounded striae, about equalling the depressions 

 between. (Hinge and interior unknown.) 



Allied to C. ovata of Hall, (Kept. Survey Iowa, pi. 7, fig. 10), from near the 

 same horizon, but more rounded in outline, and has much less elevated 

 and less curved beaks. Both these species differ from the typical forms of Cardio- 

 morpka, Koninck, in having radiating stri;i?, and may prove to be generically 

 distinct when specimens showing the hinge and interior are obtained. 



Length 0'95 inch ; height 1 inch ; breadth or convexity 0"77 inch. 



Locality and position. Rockford, Indiana. From beds containing Carbon- 

 iferous species of Goniatites, but generally supposed to be of Upper Divonian 

 age. 



GASTEROPODA. 



Genus BELLEROPIION, Montfort. 



Bellerophon CRASStJS. — Shell large, very thick, subglobose, or a Uttle longer 

 than wide ; volutions expanding somewhat rapidly, rounded over the dorsum 

 and sides ; umbilical region excavated, but not perforate ; mesial band narrow, 

 rather prominent, and margined on each side by a raised line ; aperture 

 transverse, reniform, or sublunate ; lip strongly thickened near the umbilical 

 excavations on each side, but not covering them, thinner and but slightly 

 prominent on either side of the narrow sinus in its outer margin, and spreading 

 in the form of a moderately thick, smooth, callus, over the inner whorls 

 within the aperture, and between the callosities on each side ; surface marked 

 by rather distinct irregular wrinkles, and lines of growth, the former of which 

 are strongest on each side near the lip. 



Greatest length 2-20 inches ; breadth at the aperture 2 inches ; breadth of 

 the mesial band near the aperture 0-12 inch. 



Locality and position. Pittsburg, St. CLdre County, Illinois. Lower part 

 of the Coal measures. 



Genus PLEUROTOMARIA, Defrance. 



Pleurotomaria scbcoxstricta. — Shell small, conical subovate, longer than 

 wide ; spire moderately elevated, rather pointed at the apex. Volutions five 

 and a-haif to six, obliquely flattened or concave above, excepting near the 

 suture, where there is a subangular prominence occupied by a series of small 

 nodes or granules ; those of the spire having a second angle a little below 

 the middle. Body whorl forming rather more than half the entire length, 

 biangular around the middle, the lower angle being less prominent and niore 

 obtuse than the other, and not exposed on the spire ; vertically flattened or 

 a little concave on the outer side, and convex below. Suture linear, but 

 occupying a rather distinct rounded constriction or depression. Aperture 

 broad subovate, approaching a rhombic subquadrate outline ; columella not 

 distinctly perforate. Surface ornamented by about fifteen revolving lines, 

 some ten or twelve of which occupy the under side of the body whorl, where 

 they are larger than on any other part of the shell ; crossing these there are 

 very fine transverse strire, which are closely arranged on the upper slope of 

 the whorls, particularly in crossing the spiral band, but on reaching the lower 

 angle of the body whorl, they become stronger, so as to give it a crenulated 

 appearance. Spiral band narrow, flat and located just above the middle angle 

 of the body volution. 



[Oct. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 459 



Length 0*33 inch ; breadth 0-'2i inch ; ai)ical angle neaiiy regular, diverg- 

 ence 60°. 



Locality and position. Hodges Creek, Macoupen County, Illinois. Coal 

 measures. 



Pleurotomaria gkanulostriata. — Shell very small, conical subovate, or 

 subtrochiforui ; spire moderately elevated ; volutions five, increasing rather 

 gradually in size, compressed convex, last one prominently rounded or 

 subangular around the middle ; suture well defined : aperture subcircular ; 

 spiral band not very distinctly defined, located near the middle of the body 

 whorl and passing around just above the suture on the outer turns ; columella 

 imperforate. Surface ornamented by about twelve or thirteen comparatively 

 distinct revolving lines, eight of which occupy that portion of the body whorl 

 below the band, where they are a little smaller and more closely arranged 

 than above. 



On the upper slope of the whorls above the band, the three or four revolving 

 Hues occupying that part of the shell are crossed obliquely by distinct 

 transverse lines, which are so much stronger on the revolving sti'iae than 

 between them, that they present the appearance of small nodes or grannies, 

 at the points of crossing. One of the revolving lines, which is larger than the 

 others, passes around on the middle of the revolving band, and is neatly and 

 regularly crenulated by the crossing of the transverse lines. 



Length 0.17 inch ; breadth 0'15 inch ; apical angle regular, divergence 60°. 



Locality and position. Hodges Creek, Macoupen County, Illinois. Coal 

 measures. 



Pleurotomaria tencicixcta. — Shell small, conical ovate, spire moderately 

 elevated; volutions seven, obliquely flattened or a little concave above, convex 

 and more or less distinctly angular around the middle, last one tumid below : 

 suture distinct ; spiral band very narrow, concave, located a little above the 

 middle of the body whorl, and passing around rather below the middle of the 

 others ; aperture subcircular ; umbilical region indented, but apparently not 

 distinctly perforate. Surface ornamented by about eighteen to twenty rather 

 distinct revolving lines, only two or three of which occiipy the flattened or 

 concave upper slope above the band, where they are less prominent than the 

 others ; while the two forming the margins of the band are more salient than 

 any of those below ; fine, regularly arranged striae, which are much mor»' 

 distinct on the slope above, than below the band, mark the whorls transversely. 



Length 0*24 ; breaflth 0*20 inch ; apical angle a little convex, divergence 60". 



Loccdity and position. Springfield, Illinois. Upper Coal measures. 



Plkprotomaria Pratteni. — Shell very small, conical ovate, the length being 

 greater than the breadth ; spire rather elevated, but not acute at the apex ; 

 volutions six to six and a-half, slightly convex, increasing gradually in size, 

 those of the spire more or less distinctly angular around the middle, last one 

 sometimes slightly flattened near the middle just below the angle, and convex 

 on the under side ; suture well defined. Spiral band of moderate breadth, 

 not very distinctly defined, sometimes slightly concave, occupying the more 

 or less compressed middle portion of the last whorl, and passing around so as 

 to bring its lower margin a little above the suture on the other turns. 

 Aperture subcircular; columella arcuate, a little flattened below, and imper- 

 forate ; outer lip thin ; sinus narrow and deep. Surface marked by about 

 eighteen to twenty very small, obscure revolving stria?, some twelve or thirteen 

 of which occupy the body whorl below the band, where they are a little larger 

 than those above the angle, and more regularly arranged ; lines of growth 

 very fine and obscure. 



Named in honor of Mr. Henry Pratten, deceased, formerly of tlie Geological 

 Survey of Illinois. 



I860.] 




460 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



Length 0*24 inch ; breadth 0.18 inch ; apical angle convex, divergence 

 about 37°. 



Locality and position. Hodges Creek, Macoupen County, Illinois. Coal 

 Measures. Abundant. 



Pledkotomaria SOBSINUATA. — Shell, conical ovate ; spire elevated ; volutions 

 six, convex, last one, in mature shells, sometimes obliquely tiattened a little 

 above, just below the suture, thence rounded below; suture linear, but occupying 

 a more or less deeply rounded depression ; spiral band not well defined, 

 angular, located above the middle of the body whorl, at the lower edge of the 

 slight flattening of its upper side, and passing around the middle of the upper 

 turns ; sinus of the lip, judging from the curve of the lines of growth in crossing 

 the band, shallow, and not very clearly defined ; aperture subcircular; columella 

 indented in the umbilical region, but not distinctly perforate. Surface 

 ornamented by about fourteen to eighteen distinct revolving lines, three of 

 which, on the middle of the last turn, are larger than those above, while those 

 below gradually diminish in size toward the umbilical pit ; only two or three 

 of the smaller lines usually occupy the slightly depressed upper part of the 

 whorls, where they are crossed by a series of regularly arranged, transverse 

 Gostse or wrinkles ; lines of growth obscure. 



Length 0-40 inch ; breadth 0-31 inch ; apical angle convex, divergence 5.5°. 



Locality and position. Hodges Creek, Macoupen County, Illinois. Coal 

 Measures. 



Pleurotomaria Chesterexsis. — Shell of medium size, turbinate ; spire 

 moderately elevated ; volutions about six, increasing rather gradually in size, 

 convex, distinctly carinated around the middle, and flattened, or a little concave 

 above and below the carina, the flattened space above being oblique, and that 

 below vertical : last whorl provided with a second carina below the other, and 

 a little convex on the under side ; suture linear ; umbilicus small, or nearly 

 closed; surface marked by numerous fine, regular, thread-like revolving lines, 

 crossed by similar striae, which, in traversing the spiral band, — which occupies 

 the space on the middle of the body whorl between the two carina, — make a 

 gentle backward curve, parallel to the border of the rather shallow sinus of 

 the outer lip ; aperture subcircular, approaching a subquadrate outline. 



Length 0-75 inch ; breadth 0-72 inch ; apical angle regular, divergence about 

 60°; breadth of spiral band 0-14 inch. 



Similar in form and general appearance to P. tabulate, Conrad, but differs 

 in having a small umbilicus, while the axis of that shell is not perforate. It 

 also differs in having a much broader spiral band, which occupies the space 

 between the two carina, instead of coinciding with the upper angle. Again 

 the upper carina of the shell under consideration is never crenulated, as in 

 Conrad's species. 



Locality and position. Chester, Illinois. Chester Limestone of the Lower 

 Carboniferous series. 



Pleurotomaria subscalaris. — Shell large, rather thick, conical ovate ; spire 

 moderately elevated ; volutions six, those near the summit of the spire flattened, 

 the others convex, and provided with a distinct, sharp carina, which occupies 

 a position a little above the middle of the body whorl, passes around near the 

 middle of the second, becomes lower on the third, and sinks below the suture 

 on the others. Below this angle there is on the body volution, a second less 

 distinct subangular prominence, with a broad, vertical, nearly flattened, or 

 slio-htly concave space between the two. Under side of last turn a little convex, 

 and the umbilical region somewhat indented, but not perforate ; suture well 

 defined. Spiral band narrow, and occupying the principal angle of the whorls. 



The surface of our specimen is somewhat eroded, but it retains traces of 

 about twenty rather strong revolving lines, eight or nine of which occupy the 

 upper side of the whorls, above the carina, sonio three or four the flattened 



[Oct. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 461 



outer side of the body whorl, and the remainder the under side. On the upper 

 sloping surface of the whorls there are also regularly arranged, oblique 

 • transverse stri?e, which, in well-preserved specimens, are probably continued 

 upon the outer and under sides of the last turn. 



Agrees with P. tabulata, Conrad, in size and general appearance, but differs 

 in having the upper whorls of the spire more depressed, and without any angle 

 visible above the suture. The principal angle on its lower whorls also appears 

 to be destitute of the crenulation, so distinct on that of P. tabulata. 



Length 1-67 inch; breadth 1-52 inch; apical angle convex, divergence 70°. 



Locality and position. Macoupen County, Illinois. Lower Coal Measures. 



Plkurotomaria SPECIOSA. — Shell attaining a medium size ; spire moderately 

 elevated ; volutions seven to seven and a-half, subangular just below the suture, 

 thence obliquely flattened to a much more distinct revolving angle a little below 

 the middle of the upper turns, and about the middle of the body whorl. Below 

 this second angle the outer side of the last turn is vertically flattened or a little 

 concave, so as to produce a third obtuse revolving prominence below the 

 middle, beneath which the under side of the whorl is convex. Suture well 

 defined. Spiral band narrow, very prominent, angular and regularly crenu- 

 lated by cross lines, occupying and parth' forming the middle angle of the 

 body whorl, which passes around on the upper whorls a little more than 

 one-third of their breadth above the suture. Aperture subcircular, approaching 

 subpentagonal ; umbilicus small. Surface ornamented by eighteen to twenty- 

 two thread-like revolving lines, about twelve of which occupy the under side 

 of the body whorl, four to seven the upper slope, and two or three the outer 

 flattened space. Crossing all these there are numerous extremely fine, very 

 regular, closely arranged transverse Hues, about every fourth or fifth one of 

 which is considerably enlarged near the suture ; and they all curve obliquely 

 backwards in approaching the spiral band. 



Length about 0-55 inch ; breadth 0-51 inch; apical angle regular, divergence 

 32°; breadth of spiral band not more than about 0-03 inch. 



Locality and position. Hodges Creek, Macoupen County, Illinois. Coal 

 Measures. 



Pleurotomaria turbiniformis — Shell rather large, trochiform, height and 

 breadth nearly equal; spire conical, moderately elevated; volutions about five 

 *nd a half to six, fiat, last one distinctly angular around the outer side, and 

 flattened or slightly convex below; umbilical region somewhat excavated, but 

 not perforate; spiral band extremely narrow, grooved, occupying the angle 

 around the outer side of the body whorl, and passing around scarcely above 

 the suture on the other volutions, margined above and below by a sharply 

 elevated line; suture linear, but well defined, having a somewhat banded 

 appearance, in consequence of the development of a rather distinct revolving line 

 at the upper margin of each Avhorl; aperture apparently rhombic subquadrate. 

 Surface ornamented by about twenty obscure, closely arranged, revolving striae, 

 crossed by stronger, very regular transverse lines, which are most distinct on 

 the upper part of the whorls, and pass with a gentle curve obliquely 

 backwards and outwards to the spiral band. Below the angle the body 

 whorl is nearly smooth, or only marked by A'ery obscure lines of growth, and 

 faint traces of revolving striae. 



Length about 0-93 inch; breadth nearly 0*97 inch; apical angle regular, 

 divergence 64°. 



Locality and position. Lasalle, Illinois. Upper Coal Measures. 



Pleurotomaria scitula. — Shell small, trochiform, length and breadth nearly 

 equal ; spire depressed conical ; volutions six, a little convex, last one prominent 

 and narrowly rounded or subangular on the periphery, slightly convex below ; 

 suture somewhat channelled ; aperture subcircular, approaching a subquadrate 

 form; umbilical region impressed, but not distinctly perforate; spiral band 



I860.] 32 




462 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



rather narrow, concave, and located above the narrowly rounded periphery of 

 the body whorl, passing around rather below the middle of the other volutions. 

 Surface ornamented by from about seventeen to twenty-two revolving lines,* 

 only three or four of which occupy that part of the body whorl above the 

 band, where they are larger and more widely separated than below; distinct, 

 but much smaller, regularly arranged, thread-like lines mark the volutions 

 transversely. 



Length and breadth eachaboutO-22 inch; apical angle convex, divergence 79°. 



Locality and position. Hodges Creek, Macoupen County, Illinois. Coal 

 Measures. 



Pleuuotomaria Shumardi. — Shell trochiform, of medium size, very thin ; spire 

 moderately elevated, conical, pointed at the apex. Volutions about six, 

 increasing rather rapidly in size, obliquely flattened above ; those of the spire 

 being somewhat angular near the lower side; last one very prominent, and 

 angular around the middle, the immediate edge of the angle being terminated 

 by the narrow spiral band, convex below. Band slightly concave, and 

 maro-ined above and below by a small line or indistinct angle, the lower one 

 of which scarcely rises above the suture on the upper whorls. Suture well 

 defined. Umbilicus small, or nearly closed. Aperture rhombic subquad- 

 rangular, wider than high. Surface ornamented by numerous transverse lines, 

 which are very regular and closely arranged on the upper whorls, but become 

 strono-er. more distinct, and less regular on the last turn. In crossing the 

 upper flattened sloping sides of the whorls, these lines arch a little forward, 

 and pass very obliquely backwards from the suture to the band ; on the under 

 side of the body whorl they are small, nearly obsolete, and crossed by obscure 

 traces of fine revolving striae. 



Named in honor of Dr. B. F. Shumard, State Geologist of Texas. 



Length 0-70 inch; breadth 0-73 inch: apical angle rather distinctly concave, 

 divergence 70° 



Locality and position. Warsaw and Keokuk, Illinois. Base Geode bed, 

 Warsaw Limestone, of Lower Carboniferous series. 



Genus STRAP AROLLUS, Montfort?=EUOKPHALUS, Sowerby. 



Elomphalus planodorsatus. — Shell of medium size, subdiscoidal. spire nearly 

 flat* or but slightly elevated above the body whorl. Volutions about five, 

 increasing gradually in size from within, flat above, and provided with a 

 moderately distinct revolving angle about two-thirds of the distance across 

 from the inside: from this angle the outer whorl is rounded over the peripher\' 

 to about the middle of the under side, where there is another angle, from 

 which it rounds into the umbilicus ; suture well defined. Umbilicus large, 

 deep and showing about one-half of each inner whorl ; aperture subcircular. ' 

 (Surface unknoAvn.) Height about 0-30 inch; breadth 1 inch. 



Allied to E. pentangulatus, Sowerby, but differs in having the angle on the 

 upper side of the whorls located nearer the outer margin, and the periphery or 

 outer side of its volutions more broadly rounded. 



Locality and position. Thompson's quarry, Randolph County, Illinois. Chester 

 Limestone, of Lower Carboniferous series. 



EroMPHALUs riiBiLiCATUs. — Shell of medium size, depressed subtrochiform ; 

 spire rather elevated for a species of this genus. Volutions five to five and 

 a-half, convex, increasing gradually in size, nearly horizontally flattened on 

 the upper side, about half-way across from the suture, where there is a 

 rather distinct revolving angle, below this angle the upper oblique outer 

 slope is slightly flattened to near the middle of the outer side, which, in the 

 last whorl, is narrowly rounded ; under side of lody volution rounded to a 

 moderately distinct angle near the middle, thence rounding into the umbilicus. 

 Suture well defined. Umbilicus large, or nearlv twice as wide as the diameter 



[Oct. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 463 



of the last turn, very deep and permitting the inner side of all the volutions to 

 be seen to the summit of the spire. Surface marked by fine, rather obscure 

 lines of growth. 



Heighth 0-88 inch; breadth 1-08 inch; breadth of umbilicus, measuring from 

 its marginal angle on the middle of the under side of last whorl, 0-68 inch; 

 apical angle convex, divergence about 100°. 



Locality and position. St. Clair County, Illinois. Lower Coal Measures. 



Genus NATICOPSIS, McCoy. 



Naticopsis nodosus. — Shell obliquely subrhomboidal, rather thick; spire 

 depressed ; volutions four and a-half, convex, increasing rapidly in size, last 

 one large, gibbous, oblique, and composing three-fourths of the entire length, 

 round on the outer side, and having shallow revolving depressions near the 

 suture above; suture moderately distinct; aperture subovate; lip sharp; 

 columella distinctly flattened, somewhat callous, not perforated. Surface 

 ornamented by numerous, nearly round, distinct nodes, which are arranged in 

 oblique rows, parallel to the lines of growth near the aperture of the last 

 turn, but become more crowded, and show a tendency to assume a quincunx 

 arrangement on other parts of the shell ; lines of growth fine, rather regular 

 and scarcely deflected from their course by the presence of the nodes. 



Length, measuring from the most extended part of the aperture below, 

 obliquely to the apex of the spire, I inch; breadth 0-52 inch; apical angle 

 convex, divergence about 96°. 



Locality and position. St. Clair County, Illinois. Lower Coal Measures. 



Naticopsis Hollidayi. — Shell obliquely oblong-oval, thick and solid ; spire 

 depressed subconical, pointed at the immediate apex; volutions four to four 

 and a-half, convex, excepting just below the suture, where there is a shallow 

 revolving depression, — rapidly enlarging, the last one forming more than 

 two-thirds the entire length; suture linear; aperture ovate around the margin, 

 but contracted by the broad columella so as to be nearly semicircular within ; 

 columella distinctly flattened, broad, and marked along its sharp, nearly 

 straight inner margin, by a well defined opercular impression. Surface 

 ornamented by very fine regular lines of growth, and numerous small nodes, 

 arranged in oblique rows ; the larger nodes on the last half and upper part of 

 the body whorl being more or less elongated in the direction of the lines of 

 growth. 



Length 1-15 inches; breadth 1-20 inches; apical angle nearly regular, 

 divergence 107°. Named in honor of Mr. George H. Holliday, of Carinville, 

 Macoupen County, Illinois, to whom we are indebted for the specimens 

 described. 



Locality and position. Hodges Creek, Macoupen County, Illinois. Coal 

 Measures. 



Genus PLATYOSTOMA, Conrad. 



Flatyosto-MA nana. — Shell quite small, subglobose, wider than high; spire 

 much depressed; volutions three, increasing very rapidly in size, last 

 one large and ventricose; suture rather deeply defined; aperture large, 

 broad obovate, straight on the inner side, equalling nearly seven-eighths of 

 the entire length of the shell; surface marked by fine lines of growth, which 

 become stronger, and very regular near the suture on the upper side of the 

 whorls. 



Length 0-19 inch; breadth 0-21 inch; length of aperture 0-15 inch, breadth 

 of do. 0-11 inch; apical angle about 123°. 



Differs from P. Feoriensis, McChesney, in being much smaller, and in having 

 one whorl more, while its aperture is widest above instead of below. 



Locality and position. Springfield, Illinois. Upper Coal measures. 



Platyostoma? tumida. — Shell rather large, thin, subpyriform, a little longer 

 I860.] 




464 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



than wide; spire much depressed, or nearly flat; solutions four to four and 

 a-half, convex, increasing rapidly in size, last one large, or forming about 

 eight-ninths of the entire length, prominent and narrowlj- rounded above, 

 contracted and extended below; suture well defined; aperture large, longer 

 than wide, obovate, the inner side being nearly straight; columella not 

 perforate; surface (of an exfoliated specimen) retaining traces of rather strong 

 revolving lines. 



Length 1-21 inches; breadth l-lT inches; length of aperture 1-05 inches; 

 breadth of do. 0-63 inch ; apical angle regular, divergence 132°. 



It is only provisionally we have placed this species in the genus Platyostoma ; 

 the only specimen yet obtained being merely a cast retaining portions of the 

 shell, but not giving a clear idea of its generic characters. Itdiffers from the typi- 

 cal species of that genus in having revolving lines, and will probably be found to 

 present other differences. When better specimens can be examined, we suspect 

 it will prove to belong to an undescribed genus, though we have not the means 

 of settling the question at present. If a new genus is establishedfor its reception, 

 a shell figured by Murchison, De Verneuil and Keyserling (Geol. Russia, pi. 23, 

 fig. 14), as an undetermined species of lanthina, (= Scalites Verneuilii, of 

 D'Orbigny), should probably be placed in the same group. 



Locality and position. Grayville, Illinois. Coal Measures. 



Genus EUNEMA, Salter. 



EuNEMA? Salteei. — Shell elongate conical, turreted, acute at the apex. Volu- 

 tions thirteen, slightly convex, increasing very gradually in size, ornamented 

 by two small revolving carinfe a little below the suture, the lower one of which 

 is larger than the other; last whorl having a third angle near the middle, 

 which passes around just above the suture on the other volutions ; below 

 this third angle there is on the under side of the last turn a fourth nearly 

 obsolete revolving prominence. Suture linear. Apertuce ovate, a little oblique. 

 Columella arcuate, not perforate. Lines of growth fine, rather obscure, and 

 passing straight across the whorls. 



Length 0-50 inch; breadth 0-17 inch. Length of aperture 0-1 7 inch; breadth 

 O'lO inch. Apical angle convex, divergence 20°. 



This beautiful little shell differs from the typical species of the genus in 

 which we have provisionally placed it, in having the lines of growth straight 

 instead of sinuous. This character, and the revolving carinse, would also 

 separate it from Loxonema, to which we were at first inclined to refer it. On 

 a hasty examination it might be referred to the genus Murchisonia, some species 

 of which it nearly resembles in its general appearance; a careful examination, 

 however, has satisfied us that its lines of growth do not make the slightest 

 curve, so as to indicate the existence of a sinus in any part of the lip. We 

 suspect it may belong to an undescribed genus; though, if it were from a more 

 modernformation, we should scarcely hesitate to place itinthe geniis Turritella. 



Named in honor of Mr. J. W. Salter, the distinguished Palaeontologist of the 

 British Geological Survey. 



Locality and potition. Springfield, Illinois. Upper Coal Measures. 



Genus LOXONEMA, Phillips. 



We doubt the propriety of referring such forms as are here described, to the 

 recent genus Turbonilla, (z=zChemnitzia, D'Orbigny,) since they are generally 

 not only much larger shells, but differ in not having, so far as we have been 

 able to see, the apex of the spire reversed, as in the species upon which the 

 genus Turbonilla was founded. We therefore agree with those who prefer to 

 retain Phillips' name, Loxonema, for these older fossil species. 



LoxoNEMA sciTULA. — Shell small, elongate, conical ; spire elevated and regu- 

 larly tapering ; volutions eight to eight and a half, very slightly convex, in- 

 creasing gradually in size, last one rounded and not produced below ; suture 



[Oct. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 465 



moderately well defined ; aperture obliquely ovate, acutely angular above. 

 Surface ornamented by distinct, regularly disposed, straight vertical folds or 

 costas, about fourteen or fifteen of which occupy each turn ; folds equalling 

 the depressions between, and on the last turn becoming suddenly obsolete 

 below the middle ; no lines of growth visible. 



Length 0-23 inch ; breadth, 0-10 inch ; length of aperture, 0-07 inch ; breadth 

 of do., 0.04 inch. Apical angle regular, divergence 25°. 



Locality and position. Springfield, Illinois. Upper Coal Measures. 



LoxoNEMA RUGOSA. — Shell small, elongate, conical ; volutions seven and a 

 half to eight, very slightly convex, increasing gradually in size, last one abruptly 

 rounded in the middle, not extended below ; suture rather slightly impressed ; 

 aperture ovate. Surface of each whorl ornamented by about eighteen to nine- 

 teen straight, distinct, vertical folds or costte, which equal the depressions 

 between, and are disposed so as to range in regular lines from the last whorl 

 to the summit of the spire; those on the body whorl becoming abruptly obso- 

 lete below the middle. No lines of growth visible. 



Length, 0-44 inch ; breadth 0-18 inch ; length of aperture 0-12 inch ; breadth 

 of do., 0-08 inch. Apical angle convex above, divergence 25°. 



Near the last, but differs in having the spire less attenuate above, and in 

 having more costae to each turn. The costae also differ in being ranged in 

 right Hues, all the way up the spire, while those of the adjacent whorls, in the 

 last, alternate. This latter character gives quite a peculiar aspect to this 

 species. 



Locality and position. Same as last. 



LoxoNEMA CERiTHiPORMis. — Shell rather Under medium sizc, elongate, conical; 

 spire elevated, gradually tapering to an acute point. Volutions, eleven to 

 twelve, convex, and increasing gradually in size ; last one not much enlarged, 

 somewhat prominently rounded below the middle. Suture well defined. 

 Aperture oval, subrhombic, a little longer than wide, apparently provided 

 with a small, rather oblique notch at the base of the columella ; outer lip thin, 

 broadly and deeply sinuous above and prominent below, so as to present a dis- 

 tinct inversely sigmoid outline ; columella arcuate. Surface nearly smooth, but 

 showing under a lens very fine, obscure lines of growth, which curve parallel 

 to the margin of the lip ; just below the suture these lines are gathered into a 

 series of minute, short, regularly arranged wrinkles or crenulations, scarcely 

 visible without the aid of a magnifier. 



Length, 0'70 inch ; breadth, 0-24 inch ; length of aperture, 0-18 inch ; breadth 

 of do., 0-11 inch. Apical angle regular, divergence 24°. 



Appears to agree very nearly with Chemnitzia subconstricta of Koninck, in 

 form and surface markings ; but differs, in the form of the aperture, and in 

 having a small notch or sinus, with a slight projection of the lip, at the base 

 of the columella. 



Locality and position. Springfield, Illinois. Upper Coal Measures. 



LoxoNEMA iNORNATA. — Shell Small, conical subovate ; spire moderately 

 elevated, pointed at the apex ; volutions seven, slightly convex, increasing 

 rather gradually in size, last one somewhat prominently rounded in the 

 middle, but not ventricose ; suture rather shallow ; aperture narrow sub- 

 ovate, acutely angular above, narrow, and provided with a small rounded 

 sinus at the base of the columella below ; columella arcuate ; outer lip thin, 

 .and apparently but slightly sigmoid in outline ; surface smooth, or only show- 

 ing very obscure traces of fine lines of growth under a good lens. 



Length, 0-38 inch; breadth, 0-18 inch; apical angle convex, divergence 

 nbout 30°. Length of aperture, 0-16 inch ; breadth of do., 0-09 inch. 



Locality and position. Springfield, Illinois. Upper Coal Measures. 



LoxoNEMA NiTiDOLA. — Shell of mcdlum size, subfusiform ; spire elongated, 



I860.] 




466 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



conical, rather attenuate, and acutely pointed above ; volutions eight to eight 

 and a half, convex, and increasing rather gradually in size, — last one moderately 

 large, somewhat contracted, and extended below ; suture well defined, espe- 

 cially between the lower whorls ; aperture narrow, subovate, a little oblique, 

 acutely angular above, rather narrow, and terminating in a small rounded 

 sinus at the base of the columella below, less than half the length of the entire 

 shell ; outer lip thin and sharp, with a scarcely sigmoidal margin ; columella 

 arcuate, and somewhat twisted below; surface smooth, but showing under a 

 lens very fine, obscure lines of growth. 



Length, 1-10 inch; breadth, 0-43 inch; apical angle regular, divergence 

 30°. Length of aperture, 0-47 inch; breadth, 0-20 inch. 



Locality and position. Springfield, Illinois. Upper Coal Measures. 



Genus EULIMA, Risso. 



EcLiMA? PERACUTA. — Shell Comparatively large, elongate, conical; spire 

 much elevated, attenuate, very acutely pointed at the apex, and sometimes 

 subulate. Whorls about thirteen, nearly or quite flat, and increasing very 

 gradually in size ; last one forming a little more than one-third the entire 

 length, slightly prominent around the middle, somewhat extended below ; 

 suture moderately distinct, particularly between the lower whorls. Aperture 

 rather narrow, subovate, acutely angular above, and narrowly rounded below ; 

 outer lip thin and sharp ; inner lip very slightly thickened, and a little re- 

 flexed below ; columella arcuate or faintly sinuous. Surface polished, but 

 showing under a good lens extremely fine, very obscure lines of growth. 



Length, 1-67 inch; breadth, 0-54 inch; apical angle regular, divergence 

 22°. Length of aperture, 0-55 inch ; breadth of do., 0-30 inch. 



Locality and position. Jacksburg, St. Clair county, Illinois. Lower Coal 

 Measures ; also near Springfield, in Upper Coal Measures. 



Genus MACROCHEILUS, Phillips. 



Some confusion exists in regard to the limits of this genus, in consequence 

 of the fact that Prof. Phillips did not define it clearly, and unfortunately in- 

 cluded in it species belonging to several groups, without designating what 

 particular species he regarded as the type of his genus. Nearly all subsequent 

 authors, however, agree in referring to it those oval, or subglobose forms, with 

 a thickened inner lip, and a more or less developed fold on the columella, 

 such as 3L primigcnious, [^Stylifer primigenious, Conrad) ; while there are 

 many other more elongated species referred sometimes to this genus, and 

 sometimes to Loxonema, or to Chemnitzia. 



It seems to us it would be better to regard as typical of this genus, only 

 such species as have developed, in a greater or less degree, the fold and thicken- 

 ing of the inner lip, — nearly or quite all of which, so far as our observations 

 go, are the shorter forms. The more slender, elongated species, with a com- 

 paratively small bodj- whorl, somewhat extended below, and without any 

 thickening of the inner lip, should, we think, be placed in a separate section, 

 either of this genus, or of Loxonema, or constitute a distinct group from both. 



Macrocheilus medialis. — Shell of medium size, rather thick, rhombic, oval ; 

 spire depressed conical, acutely pointed at the apex, forming near one-third 

 of the entire length. Whorls six to six and a half, convex, increasing some- 

 what rapidly in size ; last one large, but not ventricose, the widest part being 

 near the middle ; suture distinct. Aperture rather narrow, oval, acutely 

 angular above, and narrowly rounded below ; outer lip sharp, nearly straight, 

 or but slightly prominent in the middle. Columella a little sinuous about half 

 way up the aperture. Inner lip thickened to the top of the aperture, but not 

 provided with a distinct fold or prominence below, — marked by small, regular, 

 obscure transverse stria> or wrinkles above the middle. Surface apparently 

 smooth, but showing under a lens traces of fine, very obscure lines of growth. 



[Oct. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 467 



Length, 1-12 inch; breadth, 0-68 inch; length of aperture, 0-72 inch; 

 breadth of do., 0-39 inch. Apical angle convex, divergence 83°. 

 Locality and position. Springfield, Illinois. Upper Coal Measures. 



Macrocheilus iNTEKCALARis. — Shell of medium size, rhombic, oval ; spir? 

 conical, forming more than one-third of the entire length, pointed at the ex- 

 tremity. Volutions six to seven, compressed convex, increasing rather rapidlv 

 in size ; last one comparatively large, but not ventricose, widest near the 

 middle, and compressed above. Aperture narrow, subovate, a little oblique, 

 narrowly rounded, and faintly sinuous below, acutely angular above : outer 

 lip thin, slightly prominent along the middle ; columella having a small 

 sinuosity in the middle, below which the lip is thickened, so as to form a 

 moderately distinct oblique fold or obtuse prominence ; inner lip not much 

 thickened above. Surface smooth, but showing obscure traces of very fine 

 lines of growth under a magnifier. 



Length, 1-14 inch; breadth, 0-TO inch. Length of aperture, 0-70 inch; 

 breadth of do., 0-32 inch. Apical angle convex, divergence 74°. 



Locality and position. Same as last. 



Macrocheilus pulchellds. — Shell of medium size, rhombic, oval, or sub- 

 fusiform ; spire rather elevated, pointed at the apex, composing more than 

 two-fifths the entire length. Whorls seven and a half, distinctly convex, in- 

 creasing moderately in size, last one not ventricose ; suture well defined. 

 Aperture narrow, subovate, acutely angular above, and rather narrowly 

 rounded below ; outer lip sharp, and slightly sigmoid in outline ; columella a 

 little arcuate, or sinuous in the middle ; inner lip moderately thickened, some- 

 what prominent, or showing a slight disposition to form an obtuse fold below. 

 Surface polished, and having faint traces of fine lines of growth, which can 

 only be seen by the aid of a magnifier. 



Length, 1-30 inch ; breadth, 0-79 ince ; length of aperture, 0-75 inch ; breadth 

 of do., 0-34 inch. Apical angle convex, divergence 64°. 



Locality and position. Same as last. 



New Genus SOLENISCUS.* 



The shell upon which we propose to found this genus, differs from the smooth 

 species usually referred to Loxonema in having the body whorl contracted and 

 extended below into a distinct straight canal, with a well defined oblique plait 

 or fold rather low on the columella. In the last mentioned character, as well 

 as in its smooth surface, it agrees more nearl}' with the genus Macrocheilus, 

 but its fusiform outline, narrow aperture and distinct canal, are peculiarities 

 which separate it clearly from that group, as usually understood. In its 

 general appearance it resembles some species of Fasciolaria ; but as it has only 

 one, instead of two or three folds on the columella, and is entirely destitute of 

 nodes, costse, or revolving marks, while its outer lip is quite smooth within, 

 there is little reason for supposing it to be really nearly related to that genus, 

 which is unknown below the upper Cretaceous. 



It is probable that when the aperture and columella of such species as 

 Macrocheilus limnceformis, .McCoy, and Macrocheilus fusiformis, Hall, (non 31. 

 fusiformis of Morris' Catalogue,) as well as of several of the smooth fusiform 

 species referred by others to Lozon€7na, are better known, they will be found 

 to possess the characters of this genus. 



SoLENiscus TYPicus. — Shell fusiform ; spire elevated, and acutely conical at 

 the apex; volutions seven to seven and a-half, flat or but slightly convex, 

 increasing rather gradually in size, last one comparatively large, slightly ventri- 

 cose in the middle, and contracted into a distinct, straight canal below; suture 

 moderately well defined ; aperture very narrow, acutely angular above, and 



^0-a)X)fy;irxs; : a little channel, or gutter. 



I860.] 




468 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



tipering into the canal below; outer lip thin, sharp, and scarcely sigmoid 

 in outline; inner lip none; columella straight, and provided with a single 

 distinct rather sharply elevated, oblique plait or fold, a little below the middle 

 of the aperture; surface smooth, or only showing under a good lens faint traces 

 of very fine lines of growth, 



Length 0-73 inch ; breadth 0-30 inch ; apical angle slightly concave, divergence 

 0-40°. Length of aperture and canal, 0-34 inch; breadth of former 0-11 

 inch. 



Locality and position. Springfield, Illinois. Upper Coal Measures. 



CEPHALOPODA. 



Genus ORTHOCERAS, Breynius. 



Orthoceras expansum. — Shell having the form of a moderately compressed, 

 rapidly tapering cone; section subcircular, near the smaller end, but more 

 oval towards the larger. Septa concave, and separated near the smaller end 

 by spaces between one-fourth and one-fifth their own greater diameter; the 

 intervals increasing somewhat, but not near in proportion to the expansion of 

 the shell above; siphuncle subcentral, small where it passes through the septa, 

 but swelling out into a globular cavity between. Surface apparently smooth. 



Length of an entirely septate specimen imperfect at both extremities, 4-29 

 inches; greater diameter at the smaller end 0-80 inch, smaller do. of same 

 about 0-71 inch; greater diameter at larger end apparently not less than 3-20 

 inches. 



This species is allied in form and general appearance to 0. dilatatum. 

 DeKoniuck, (An. Fos. p. 515, pi. 45, fig. 8, a, b, c), but differs in presenting an 

 oval instead of a circular section ; its siphuncle is also much more nearly 

 central than is represented in DeKoninck's figure 8, a and b, pi. 45, and differs 

 in its peculiarity of swelling out into globular cavities between the septa. Our 

 species seems likewise to differ in its surface markings, being nearly or quite 

 smooth ; this, however, may be due, at least to some extent, to the exfoliation 

 of the outer layers of the shell. 



Locality and position. McDonough County, Illinois ; the specimen being found 

 loose, its exact geological position is unknown, though it is doubtless a 

 carboniferous species. 



Genus CYRTOCERAS, Goldfuss. 



Cyrtoceras ccrtum. — Shell rather under medium size, slightly arched and 

 rapidly expanding; section oval, the transverse diameter being greater than 

 from the dorsal to the ventral side ; lateral margins a little flattened ; ventral 

 and dorsal sides very broadly rounded. Surface ornamented by numerous 

 small, regularly arranged annular strijie, or impressed lines, which arch a little 

 forward in crossing the dorsum, where they are separated by spaces several 

 times their own breadth, excepting near the smaller extremity of the shell. 

 On the sides and ventrum, they become much more crowded, and more deeply 

 impressed. Septa rather deeply concave; siphuncle small, and placed about 

 half-way between the middle and the dorsal side. 



Length of a specimen imperfect at the smaller end, 1-25 inches; greater 

 diameter at the aperture about 1-24 inch, smaller do. 0-92 inch ; greater 

 diameter at the smaller extremity 0-54 inch, smaller do. 0-45 inch. 



Locality and position. Graysville, Illinois. Coal Measures. 



Cyrtoceras? dilatatum. — Shell broadly conical, very rapidly expanding, 

 thick, especially on one side, a little curved and apparently somewhat 

 compressed ; surface ornamented by numerous distinct, regularly arranged, 

 subimbricating annular marks of growth : septa separated, at about about two 

 inches from the smaller end, by spaces near one-twelfth of the greater diameter 

 of the shell at the same place; (siphuncle and aperture unknown). Length 



[Oct. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 469 



of a septate specimen, incomplete at both ends, 1-18 inches ; breadth of smaller 

 end 1 inch, do. of larger end 2-97 inches. 



Locality and position. Near Spring6eld, Illinois. Upper Coal Measures. 



Genus NAUTILUS, Breynius. 



Nautilus subglobostjs. — Shell under medium size, subglobose, broadly rounded 

 over the dorsum and sides; umbilicus (in casts) rather small, deep, conical, 

 or with nearly vertical sides, showing rather less than the half of each inner 

 whorl; volutions about three, increasing rapidly in size, especially in breadth, 

 deeply embracing, subangular on the sides around the umbilicus; septa rather 

 deeply concave, arching very slightly forward over the dorsal region, where 

 they are separated by spaces a little less than one-fifth their own greater 

 (transverse) diameter; aperture transversely sublunate, or subreniform; lip 

 deeply sinuous on the dorsal side; siphuncle central; surface apparently 

 smooth. Length 2-11 inches; height 1-72 inch; breadth at aperture 1-95 inch. 



This species is related to the following, but differs in having a wider umbilicus, 

 with more rapidly expanding whorls. It is also more broadly rounded on the 

 dorsum, and its septa are rather more closely arranged in proportion to the 

 breadth of the whorls. 



Locality and position. Chester, Illinois. Chester Limestone of Lower Car- 

 boniferous series. 



Nadtilus Chesterexsis. — Shell under medium size, subglobose, rounded 

 over the dorsum and sides; umbilicus (in casts) small and deep, with nearly 

 .vertical walls, probably almost closed in adult specimens retaining the shell, 

 apparently showing little of the inner whorls ; volutions about three ; increasing 

 moderately in size, rather deeply embracing, abruptly rounded, or subangular 

 around the umbilicus; septa not very concave, arching very slightly forward 

 over the dorsal region, where they are separated by spaces a little less than 

 one-fourth their own transverse diameter; siphuncle very nearly or quite 

 central; aperture (as inferred from a section of the whorls) transversely 

 subreniform; (surface unknown). Length 2-43 inches; heighth about 1-88 

 inches; breadth near the aperture about 1-80 inch ; breadth of umbilicus (in 

 cast) 0-54 inch. 



Locality and position. Same as last. 



Nactilcs spectabilis. — Shell large, subglobose; umbilicus moderately wide, 

 deep, subconical, and showing rather more than half of each inner whorl; 

 volutions increasing rather rapidly in size, or more than doubling their diameter 

 each turn, broadly rounded over the dorsum, moderately concave within, and 

 very narrowly rounded, or subangular along the middle of each side, where 

 they are ornamented by a series of low nodes, some fourteen to sixteen of which 

 maybe counted on either side of each turn; section of the whorls subelliptical, 

 the breadth being rather more than double the diameter from the dorsal to the 

 umbilical side; siphuncle located a little outside of the centre. Septa distinctly 

 concave, arching slightly forward over the dorsum, where they are separated 

 by spaces less than one-fourth their own transverse diameter. (Surface, 

 aperture, and number of whorls unknown.) 



Length of a specimen, consisting entirely of septate whorls, 4-50 inches; 

 height of do. 3-47 inches; breadth of the aperture 3-20 inches. 



Locality and position. Gravel Creek, Randolph County, Illinois. Chester 

 Limestone, of Lower Carboniferous series. 



Nautilus (Discus*) planorbiformis. — Shell of medium size, compressed 



*We retain Prof. King's name Discus, in a subgeneric sense, for all the discoidal forms 

 with a central siphuncle, simple septa, and slender contiguous whorls, all exposed in a 

 wide, shallow umbilicus. It seems not to be quite synonymous with Visc-iies, of McCoy , 

 which is described as having the siphuncle •' near the outer edge of the periphery." 

 We have some doubis whether such forms should be retained in the same genus with 

 I he living species of Nautilus. 



I860.] 




470 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



discoidal; umbilicus very wide, shallow, and showing nearly all of each 

 inner whorl; volutions about four, increasing gradually in size, slightly 

 embracing, nearly rounded in young shells, but becoming somewhat compressed 

 on the sides and dorsum, in mature individuals — having a row of obscure nodes 

 around each dorso-lateral margin ; aperture a little oval, its longer diameter 

 being in the direction of the plane of the shell : septa deeply concave, arching 

 gently backwards on the sides and dorsum, and separated by spaces less than 

 one-third the transverse diameter of the whorls; siphuncle small and central; 

 surface apparently smooth. 



Length 3-60 inches; height 3-21 inches; breadth 0-92 inch. 



Locality and position. Alpine, Iowa. Coal Measures. 



Xautilus (Discus) trisclc.\tus. — Shell discoidal, under medium size; 

 umbilicus wide, moderately deep, and showing nearly all of each inner whorl; 

 volutions slender, increasing very gradually in size, a little broader transversely 

 than the diameter from the dorsum to the ventral margin, ventricose and 

 rounded on each side, and provided with a deep rounded sulcus in each 

 dorso-lateral region. Between these two sulci, the dorsum is narrow, prominent 

 and less deepl}' grooved, the sulcus being bounded on either side by an angle. 

 Surface retaining traces of rather strong longitudinal lines. Septa deeply 

 concave, and arching distinctly backwards in each of the dorsal depressions, 

 separated on the dorsum by spaces generally less than one-third the transverse 

 diameter of the outer whorl at the place of measurement; siphuncle rather 

 small, and placed a little nearer the dorsal than the ventral side. Length (of 

 a specimen retaining a portion of the nonseptate whorl) 2-33 inches; height 

 1-82 inches; breadth about 0-87 inch. 



Locality and position. Rockford, Indiana, in beds containing Carboniferous 

 species of Goniatites, but usually regarded as Upper Devonian. 



Nautilus (Discus) digonus. — Shell rather small, subdiscoidal; umbilicus 

 comparatively large, moderately deep, and showing all of each inner whorl ; 

 volutions about three or four, in contact, but not embracing, increasing 

 gradually in size, broad and nearly flat on the dorsal side, which is marked 

 by two very obscure longitudinal depressions near the aperture; distinctly 

 angular on each dorso-lateral margin, thence rounding regularly into the 

 umbilicus; surface of cast retaining traces of regular, equidistant longitudinal 

 lines, and much finer and more closely arranged transverse striae; aperture and 

 section of the whorls nearly semicircular, the outer or dorsal side being almost 

 straight, and the inner rounded. Septa distinctly concave; their margins 

 curving obliquely backwards on the sides of the whorls, from the dorso-lateral 

 angles, and deflected backwards in crossing the dorsum. Siphuncle small, 

 located about one-third the diameter of each septum from the dorsal side. 



Length, (of an imperfect specimen, about one-third of the outer whorl of 

 which is non-septate,) 1-20 inch; height 1 inch; breadth across the dorsum 

 of the outer whorl near the aperture, 0-62 inch; diameter of same from the 

 dorsal to the ventral side, 0-40 inch. 



Locality and position. Same as last. 



Nautilus (Discus) Sangamonexsis. — Of this species we have seen but a 

 single specimen consisting of about half of one volution. It is a little wider 

 transversely than deep, and increases gradually in size from the smaller to the 

 larger end, being evidently part of a discoidal shell, with an umbilicus 

 about equalling the transverse diameter of the outer whorl. On the dorsum 

 it is nearly flat, or but slightly convex, and the sides are a little concave. The 

 ventro-lateral regions are obliquely flattened, so as to form an abrupt slope 

 into the umbilicus, leaving a subangular prominence between the umbilicus 

 and each slightly concave side. The ventrum is moderately concave along the 

 middle, for the reception of the inner whorls, each of which was probably 

 about one-third hidden. 



[Oct. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 471 



Oc each dorso-lateral angle, there is a series of rather low nodes, about 

 twenty to twenty-two of which probably existed on each side of the entire 

 whorl. The transverse section of the whorls has a nearly quadrangular form, 

 if we regard the small ventral concavity, and the two sloping ventro-lateral 

 margins together as one side. The septa are moderately concave, and arch 

 gracefully backward on each side, while in crossing the dorsum they arch 

 less deeply in the same direction. The siphuncle is small, and located a little 

 nearer the dorsal than the ventral side. (Aperture and surface markings 

 unknown). 



Length, as inferred from the curve, about 2 inches; height about I 45 inch ; 

 breadth near the aperture 0-88 inch. 



Locality and position. Sangamon County, Illinois. Coal Measures. 



Genus GONIATITES, De Haan. 



GoN'iATiTES GLOBULOSus. — Shell Under medium size, length and breadth 

 nearly equal, very broadly rounded on the dorsum ; umbilicus deep, less than 

 half as wide as the greater (transverse) diameter of the outer whorl; volutions 

 more than twice as broad transversely, as from the ventral to the dorsal side ; 

 sides subangular around the umbilicus ; aperture transverse, lunate, much 

 wider than high ; (surface unknown ;) surface of internal cast slightly con- 

 stricted at intervals, as if from an occasional thickening of the lip. Septa 

 moderately distant ; dorsal lobe nearly as wide as long, and deeply divided 

 into two slightly diverging, simple, lanceolate branches ; dorsal saddle lingui- 

 form, and a little narrower than the dorsal lobe, but equalling it in length, 

 slightly contracted in the middle ; superior lateral lobe as long as the dorsal 

 saddle, but narrower, and pointed at the extremity ; lateral saddle a little 

 broader than the dorsal saddle, which it resembles in other respects. 



Length 1-18 inch; height, 1 inch; breadth at the aperture, l-ll inch. 



Locality and position. Upper Coal Measures, Springfield, Illinois. 



GoNiATiTES lowExsis. — Shell attaining a rather large size, discoidal or com- 

 pressed on the sides, and narrowly rounded on the dorsum; umbilicus shallow, 

 about one-half as wide as the breadth of the outer whorl from the ventral to 

 the dorsal side, showing apparently a little less than half of each inner whorl ; 

 volutions increasing gradually in size, but slightly convex on the sides, nearly 

 twice as broad on a line from the dorsal to the ventral margins, as the 

 diameter at right angles to the same, profoundly grooved on the ventral side 

 for the reception of each succeeding whorl; aperture, judging from a transverse 

 section of the volutions, narrow sublunate. (Surface unknown.) 



Septa rather crowded and deeply sinuous ; dorsal lobe large, considerably 

 wider than long, profoundly divided into two large lanceolate branches, each 

 of which is a little narrower above than in the middle, and abruptly contracted 

 to an acute point at the extremity ; dorsal saddle linguiform, slightly oblique, 

 a little larger than either division of the dorsal lobe, and longer than wide ; 

 superior lateral lobe infundibuliform, as long as the dorsal saddle, but not 

 more than half as wide, acutely pointed at the apex ; lateral saddle a little 

 shorter than the dorsal saddle, but narrower at the extremity ; inferior lateral 

 lobe rather shorter than the superior, particularly on the ventral side, but re- 

 sembling it in other respects ; ventral saddle shorter than the others, and 

 broadly rounded. 



Length 4-21 inches; height 343 inches; breadth at the aperture I-IO inch. 



Locality and position. Alpine, Iowa. Coal Measures. 



GoNi.\TiTES Lyoni. — Shell attaining a medium size, compressed, discoidal ; 

 umbilicus large, or nearly twice the diameter of the outer whorl, from the 

 dorsal to the ventral side, very shallow, and showing about four-fifths of each 

 inner whorl. Volutions slender, increasing very gradually in size, compressed, 

 or about one-third deeper from the dorsal to the ventral side than the trans- 



I860.] 




472 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



verse diameter, rather narrowly rounded on the dorsum, compressed conyex 

 on the sides, and provided with a shallow concavity along the ventrum for the 

 reception of the inner whorls. Septa moderateh^ distant, and deeply divided 

 into six lobes and six saddles ; dorsal lobe longer than wide, infundibuliform, 

 and acutely pointed ; dorsal saddle as long as the dorsal lobe, but wider, and 

 rounded at the end ; superior lateral lobe halbert-shaped, a little longer than the 

 dorsal lobe, and sharply pointed at the extremity : lateral saddle longer and 

 narrower than the dorsal saddle, linguiform, and regularly rounded at the 

 summit ; inferior lateral lobe similar to the superior, excepting that it is some- 

 what smaller ; ventral saddle shorter and broader than the lateral saddle, 

 rather oblique, and rounded at the end. 



Length of an imperfect entirely septate specimen, 2-55 inches ; height, 2-15 

 inches ; convexity, 0-57 inch. 



Locality and position. Rockford, Indiana, from the Rockford Goniatite bed, 

 the exact age of which is somewhat doubtful, though it is generally considered 

 of upper Devonian age. 



XoTE. — In the last number of the Proceedings of the Academy, we described 

 a new Echinoderm, under the name of Jlelonites Dana, mentioning, at the same 

 time, that it differs from the type of the genus Melonites, in having only four, 

 instead of eight double rows of pores to each ambulacrum. Since that time 

 we have been led to regard this diflference as being of more than specific im- 

 portance, though until other species or better specimens are known, we cannot, 

 be quite sure it is of full generic value, especially since these forms seem to be 

 exactly alike in other respects. We therefore now propose to found upon this 

 species a subgenus, under the name of Oliyoporus (i\i-yi(, few ; and Tro^og, opening 

 or pore.) 



We also avail ourselves of the present opportunity to correct the following 

 errata, which were overlooked in correcting the proof of the paper mentioned 

 above : 



Page 382, 15th line from the bottom, for second radial read second radials. 



Page 382, for the 4th, 5th and 6th lines from the bottom, substitute secowJary 

 radials 1 X 10 : resting partly on the second, and partly on the first primary radials; 

 or, in the absence of the former, directly on the latter. 



Page 382, insert between the first and second lines from the bottom, — Anal 

 plate 1, (known) ; varyijig much in size and form. 



Page 386, 12th line from the bottom, for Actinocrinus scilutus, read Actinocri- 

 nus scitulus. 



Page 389, 2d, 5th and 23d lines from the bottom, and 4th and 5th line from 

 the top, for Forbsiocrinus, read Forbesiocrinus. 



Description of a New Species of Ezocetus, from Chili. 



BY CHARLES C. ABBOTT. 



Exocetus C h i 1 i e n s i s, Abbott. — Spec. char. Head of medium size, 

 without scales, and trigonal. Body much compressed and tapering to 

 the tail ; peduncle of the tail very slender. Eye unusually large, circular, 

 diameter entering two and two-thirds times in the length of the side of 

 the head ; the orbits are one diameter distant. The posterior extremity 

 of the maxillary bone extends to a vertical line drawn anteriorly to the 

 anterior margin of the orbit. The nostrils are situated anteriorly to the 

 eyes, and are about three diameters distant. Anterior to, between, and 

 posterior to the orbits, are numerous pores, with channelled, slender 

 depressions over the forehead and occiput, leading to the orifices of these 

 pores. A well-defined, carinated row of scales commence, on each side, at 



[Oct. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 478 



the lower margin of the opercular apparatus, and extend in a direct course, 

 to the posterior insertion of the anal fin. The dorsal fin has its anterior 

 iasertion at the commencement of the posterior third of the total length of the 

 body, and extends to within three-fourths of an inch of the insertion of the 

 caudal fin. The pectoral fin has its insertion immediately behind the margin 

 of the opercle, and the extremities of the rays reach the insertion of the caudal 

 fin. The ventral fins are unusually small, and have their length equal to their 

 width. The anterior insertions of the ventral fins are slightly posterior to the 

 corresponding insertion of the dorsal fin, and its termination is opposite that of 

 the dorsal fin. The caudal fin is deeply furcated, with the lower lobe of the 

 fin one-third longer than the upper. 4 



The numbers of the fin-rays are D, IG. P, 15. V, 6. A, 15. C, 20- 



4 



Color. In alcoholic specimens, the upper surface of the head and back are 

 deep brown with a purple tint ; lower portion of the sides and belly silvery 

 white. The fins and opercle are bright silvery. Iris chestnut-brown. 



Habitat. Chili. 



Two well preserved specimens of this JEzocetus are in the museum of the 

 Academy, presented by Mr. C. S. Rand. The colors of this species during life 

 are evidently much brighter, giving it an appearance surpassed in beauty by 

 no known species. 



Sescriptioas of Foot New Species of North American CyprinidsB. 

 BY CHARLES C. ABBOTT. 



1. Catostomus Texan u s, Abbott. — Spec. char. Head somewhat compressed, 

 large, constituting somewhat more than one-fourth of the total length. Eye 

 small, longitudinally oval ; its longitudinal diameter constituting one-twelfth 

 of the length of the side of the head. Mouth large, with the labial papillae 

 moderately developed. Body moderatel}' compressed ; a dorsal gibbosity extends 

 from the occiput, attaining its greatest height an inch from the occiput, and 

 disappearing at the anterior insertion of the dorsal fin ; it is carinated 

 throughout its whole extent. Dorsal fin one-third longer than high ; its base 

 enters five and a-half times in the total length; its anterior margin equidistant 

 between the base of the caudal and the extremity of the snout. The insertion 

 of the ventrals is opposite the centre of the dorsal fin, and much nearer the 

 base of the caudal than the extremity of the snout. The posterior extremity of 

 the anal fin extends beyond the rudimentary rays of the caudal. The scales 

 are of medium size, with a subcentric nucleus near the anterior margins of 

 their free portions, from which radiate numerous striae, and around which are 

 numerous well defined ridges. The lateral line is nearly straight throughout 

 its course. 5 



The numbers of the fin-rays are D. 15. P, 16. V, 10. A, 7. C, 18- 



5 



Color. Upper surface of the head, back, and sides, a dull slate color; belly 

 white (not silvery). Throat yellow. 



Total length, 14 inches. 



Habitat. Colorado and New rivers. 



I am indebted to Dr. John L. LeConte, for a note containing a descrip- 

 tion of this fish, noticing many peculiarities which the specimen (a stuffed 

 one) does not now exhibit. 



2. Catostomiis chloropteron, Abbott. — Spec. char. Body considerably 

 depressed, rapidly tapering posteriorly. The length of the head enters into 

 the entire length of the body four and a-half times. Eye of medium size; the 

 diameter of the orbit contained in the length of the head eight times. Mouth 



I860.] 




474 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



of medium size, with the labial papillae very conspicuous. The dorsal fin, 

 anteriorly, is slightly higher than long ; its anterior insertion nearer the 

 extremity of the snout than the insertion of the caudal fin. The anterior 

 insertions of the ventral fins are opposite the anterior fourth ray of the dorsal and 

 nearer the insertion of the caudal fin, than the extremity of the snout. The 

 lateral line is nearly straight, and somewhat nearer the dorsal than the ventral 

 outline. 



The numbers of the fin-rays are D, 13. P, 16. V, 8. A, 7. C, 20. 



Color. In alcoholic specimens, the back and sides above the lateral line are 

 clear, light-blue, becoming pearly white upon the lower half of the sides and 

 upon the belly. The fins are bright yellow. 



Total length, 7J inches. 



Habitat. Kansas. 



Two well preserved specimens are in the Museum, presented by Dr. Wm. A. 

 Hammond; both probably young, 



3. Gila affinis, Abbott. — Spec. char. The body is slender: tail greatly 

 attenuated. Head constituting somewhat more than one-fifth of the total 

 length. Eye rather small, subelliptical, its diameter contained six and a-half 

 timesin the entire length of the head. The posterior extremity of the maxillary 

 bone extends to a vertical line, drawn posteriorly to the anterior edge of the 

 orbit. Anterior margin of the dorsal fin nearer the base of the caudal than 

 the extremity of the snout. Anterior margins of the ventral fins somewhat 

 nearer the extremity of the snout than the base of the caudal. The lateral 

 line is nearly concurrent with the ventral outline. 3 



The numbers of the fin-rays are D, 10. P, 16. V, 8. A, 9. C, 28- 



3 

 Color. la alcoholic specimens, the back and upper third of the sides are dull 

 violet, becomine pale pink below the lateral line and upon the belly. 

 Total length, 6J inches. 

 Habitat. Kansas. 

 The Museum contains a single specimen, presented by Dr. Wm. A. Hammond. 



4. Semotilus Hammondii, Abbott. — Spec. char. Body much compressed, 

 and tapering rapidly to the tail. The head constitutes more than one-fourth ot 

 the length of the body, excluding the caudal fin. Snout conical ; gape of the 

 mouth oblique; the posterior extremity of the maxillary bone extending to a 

 vertical line drawn through the extremity of the pupil. Eye subelliptical ; its 

 diameter entering eight times in the length of the side of the head. Anterior 

 margin of the dorsal fin equidistant between the fork of the caudal fin and the 

 extremity of the snout. Insertion of the ventrals slightly iu advance of the 

 dorsals. Dorsal fin somewhat higher than broad, and nearly quadrilateral. 

 Anal fin one-third longer than broad, circular at its posterior extremity. Lateral 

 liue concurrent with the ventral outline. A number of irregularly situated 

 tubercles on each side of the head, mostly existing in the orbital region. 



3 



The numbers of the fin-rays are D, 9. P, 18. V, 9. A, 9. C, 24- 



3 



Color. In alcoholic specimens, the upper surface of the bead, back, and 

 sides, are a deep umber brown ; belly of a bright yellow. A black spot at the 

 anterior base of the dorsal fin, and another very faint at the centre of the 

 base of the caudal. A faint black line concurrent with the lateral line. 



Total length, 7 inches. 



Habitat. Kansas. 



The Museum contains a single specimen of this fish, presented by Dr. Wm. 

 A. Hammond, to whom the species is dedicated. 



[Oct. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 475 



Bescriptioa of new species of Apodal Fishes in the Maseum of the Academy of 

 Natural Sciences, of Philadelphia, 



BY CHARLES C. ABBOTT. 



Genus Herpetoichtuts, Kanp. 



Dlagn. Jaws nearly equally long. Snout sh.ort. Gullet wide. Eyes near 

 the end of the snout. Head depressed, so that the eyes are nearer the upper 

 surface than they are distant from each other laterally. Anterior nostril tubu- 

 lar at the extremity of the snout, and the hinder one at the commencement 

 of the outer row of palatine teeth. Between the two, on the border of the 

 upper lip, there is a small cutaneous tag. Pectoral fins moderately short. Six 

 or seven nasal teeth, and from nine to thirteen vomerine ones. 



1. Herpetoichthys c a 1 1 i s m a , Abbott. — Spec. char. Head depressed; 

 the facial outline slightly oblique, and without curv^ature. The jaws are 

 flattened, and the snout terminates in a rather obtuse point. The eyes are 

 large, longitudinally oval ; the diameter of the orbits entering three times in 

 the length of the side of the head, measuring from the angle of the jaws. The 

 gill-opening is large and perpendicular ; it is situated as much more poste- 

 riorly to the extremity of the snout, as anteriorly to the commencement of 

 the dorsal fin, as four is to one. The dorsal fin arises nearly opposite to the 

 tips of the rays of the pectoral, when it is extended backwards, and reaches 

 to within a short distance of the extremity of the tail ; it retains a uniform 

 height until it nears the posterior eighth of the total length, when it rapidly 

 decreases to its termination. The anus is situated slightly posteriorly to the 

 anterior third of the total length ; and, at its posterior margin the anal fin 

 originates, and from thence proceeds the lower surface of the body, and is co- 

 terminal with the dorsal fin. 



The teeth upon the mandible and palate are biserial ; the dentition elsewhere 

 is uniserial. Nasal teeth eight ; compressed, blunt, inwardly directed ; four 

 are upon the mesial line, the anterior two smaller than the others. Vomerine 

 teeth eleven ; these form a nearly straight line, and have the anterior six 

 somewhat larger than the other five. Palatine teeth upon the outer row 

 eleven ; upon the inner row ten ; they are similar to the nasal teeth. Mandi- 

 bular teeth similar in .shape to the nasal teeth, sixteen upon the outer row ; 

 ten upon the inner row. 



Color. The head, and that portion of the back anterior to the pectoral 

 fins, is dull brown, with a purple tint. On a line with the angle of the mouth, 

 extending as far back as the base of the pectorals, this color is uniform, but 

 below this line it becomes much paler and white, in irregular patches. Upon 

 the head and neck there are numerous circular blackish spots, whiclx occa- 

 sionally run into each other, forming irregular blotches. The throat is longi- 

 tudinally marked with slender black lines, which extend nearly parallel, and 

 reach the base of the pectorals. The ground color of the body is a uniform 

 yellowish-brown, lighter on the belly ; along the sides, from the pectoral fin 

 to the termination of the dorsal, are large, circular, equidistant, very deep 

 brown spots, their diameter equal to two-thirds of the width of the body. 

 Above and between the large lateral spots, exists a regular row of smaller, but 

 similarly shaped spots ; the first two commencing anteriorly to the insertion 

 of the dorsal fin, and nearly joining upon the back. Beneath and between the 

 large lateral spots are smaller ones of a similar shape ; these are irregular in 

 their position and number, and diSer materially, in many respects, on the two 

 sides of the body. The dorsal fin is white, marked with irregular spots, of a 

 color similar to those upon the body. The anal fin is similar in its coloration 

 to the dorsal. The pectorals have a number of very minute dots upon them. 



I860.] 




476 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



A row of circular spots commences on the belly, near the pectoral fins, and 

 extends to the anus. 



Total length, 38 inches. To anus, 13 inches. 



Habitat. Pacific Ocean ? Cabinet of the Academy. 



A single specimen of this magnificent fish is in the collection presented by 

 W. G. Burke, Esq. This specimen, at first glance, would not appear to belong 

 to the genus Herpetoichthys ; but the slight variations are not sufficient to refer 

 the species to any other genus. The exact locality from which the species 

 was obtained is uncertain, but various circumstances induce me to suspect it 

 is a species belonging to the Pacific fauna. 



Genus Pisoodonophis, Kaup. 



Diagn. Teeth short, conic, and more or less blunt. Anterior nostril tube 

 well developed, and approximating the corner of the mouth. Pectorals more 

 or less fully developed. 



2. Pisoodonophis magnifica, Abbott. — Spec. char. Head small, facial 

 outline with an oblique curvature ; the snout rather obtuse, with the upper 

 jaw extending much beyond the lower, making the nasal teeth visible when 

 the mouth is closed. The body is perfectly cylindrical, and tapers very 

 gradually to the tail, which terminates in a conico-acute homy point. The 

 dorsal fin has its anterior insertion at the occiput, and the fin terminates 

 before it reaches the horny extremity of the tail. The anal fin is coterminal 

 with the dorsal. The pectoral fin is small, circular, with twenty rays. The 

 teeth are all very small, conical, and acute, six standing irregularly on the 

 disc of the nasal bone. The teeth upon the palate, vomer, and mandible are 

 biserial, and placed very close to each other. Palatine teeth ; 



vomerine teeth 



Color. In alcoholic specimens, the ground color of this fish is pink, darkest 

 upon the back, and nearly lost upon the belly, which appears white, without 

 close inspection. At the base of the anterior nasal tubes are two very small 

 dark chocolate-brown, semicircular spots ; behind these, and anterior to the 

 orbits, are situated two similar markings, but larger, and little deeper in 

 color. Commencing at the insertion of the dorsal fin are two series of spots 

 of chocolate color, separated only by that fin ; these spots, if viewed from 

 above, have the appearance of transverse bands. These spots are not, in every 

 case, directly opposite, but they are generally so. Upon the sides is a single 

 series of spots, of the tints of the dorsal markings, which are two-thirds of the 

 width of the sides, measuring from the base of the dorsal to the centre 

 of the belly. Upon the belly are three rows of small, circular spots, which are 

 very irregular as to position. 



Total length, 19 inches. To anus, 8 inches. To gill-opening, 1^ inch. 



Habitat. Sandwich Islands. 



The Museum of the Academy contains two specimens, which were collected 

 and presented by Dr. J. K. Townsend. 



3. Mursena acutirostris, Abbott. — Spec. char. Head much compress ed ; 

 the facial outline moderately oblique ; the jaws greatly attenuated, very 

 slender; the lower mandible somewhat the smaller, with a gentle upward 

 curve at its extremity. The fold of the skin, enveloping the dorsal fin, is 

 unusually thin, and arises within a short distance of the occiput, with a slope 

 of about forty-five degrees. The fin is equal in width to seven-eighths of the 

 width of the body, and has no perceivable decrease until it approaches the 

 posterior eighth of the body, when it decreases rapidly, and at its termination 

 is only equal to one-seventh of the width of the fin upon the back. The eye 

 is large, circular, its diameter equal to one-fifth of the length of the side of 

 the head, measuring from the angle of the jaws ; the orbits are one diameter 



[Oct. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 477 



distant, and the distance from the upper edge of the orbit to the facial outline 

 is equal to the distance between the lower margin of the orbit and free edge of 

 the upper lip. The gill-opening is rather small, oblique, situated as far pos- 

 teriorly to the commencement of the dorsal fin as that is posterior to the angle 

 of the jaws. (The pores upon the snout and lateral line, in this specimen, 

 are not visible.) 



The teeth are uniserial, compressed, and very acute ; the palatines, 

 vomerine, and mandibular teeth all inwardly directed. Nasal teeth fourteen ; 

 widely set, and from three to five minute teeth between each pair. Three 

 teeth are placed upon the mesial line ; the second one very slender, and the 

 longest tooth in the mouth ; the third is twice as great in circumference, 

 and but little shorter than the second tooth. Twelve compressed, acute teeth 

 are situated upon the vomer, in a direct line ; the anterior tooth much the 

 largest. Palatine teeth, thirteen, of a uniform size; the series commencing 

 below the centre of the orbit and terminating shortly anteriorly to the angle of 

 the jaws. The mandible is armed with twenty-six teeth upon each side ; the 

 anterior four of each side being nearly three times as great in size, more widely 

 set, and the posterior pair have a single, compressed, very small tooth between 

 them. 



Color. The ground color of this species is a dark hair brown, nearly black 

 upoa the occiput and cheek, and along the base of the dorsal fin. The head, 

 body, and both fins are irregularly reticulated with narrow bands of white, 

 varyirg in width and becoming yellow on the posterior fifth of the dorsal fin, 

 and upon that portion of the body, hut in a less degree. Three broken lines of 

 black extend along the body, from the angle of the jaws to the gill- opening. 

 Iris chrome yellow. Total length 19i inches. To anus 9 inches. To gill- 

 opening 2f inches. 



Habitat. Sandwich Islands. 



A single specimen of this peculiar Murcena was brought from the above - 

 locality, and presented to the Academy, by Dr. J. K. Townsend, to whom the 

 Academy is indebted for many species of fishes, which enrich their icthyo- 

 logical cabinet. 



The peculiarity of this Murcena, which immediately falls under the notice of 

 the icthyologist, is the remarkably slender snout ; which consequently gives 

 the dentition an unusual aspect, in crowding the marginal nasal teeth and those 

 upon the mesial line into close proximity ; and the vomerine teeth so close to 

 the palatines. The great acuteness of the teeth in every series, their close 

 proximity, and inward direction, give this sj'ecies a ferocious appearance, 

 which certainly must be realized by every unfortunate fish, whose fate it is to 

 be mangled by his jaws. 



4. Thyrsoidea Kaupii, Abbott. — The genus Thvksoidea differs from 

 Murasna by having the palatine teeth biserial. 



Spec. Char. Head, facial outline, and general characters of the jaws, except 

 their less tenuity, similar to Murcena acutirostris, Abb. The fold of the skin, 

 enveloping the dorsal fin, is thick on the anterior portion of the fin, and pre- 

 vents the rays from being felt. The commencement of the dorsal fin is twice 

 as far distant from the gill-opening, as from the angle of the jaws. The eye is 

 large, longitudinally oval ; its longitudinal diameter entering four times in the 

 length of the side of the head, measuring from the angle of the jaws. The 

 anterior nostrils are furnished with long slender tubes, which extend to the 

 free margin of the lip ; the posterior nostrils are not tubular. The anus is 

 situated two inches anteriorly to the centre of the total length. The body, 

 posteriorly to the anus, tapers slowly to the extremity of the tail, which is very, 

 acute. 



The nasal teeth number twelve ; they are tall, slender, inwardly directed, 

 with two very minute teeth between nearly every pair. Two teeth, similar to 

 the marginal nasal teeth, stand upon the mesial line, and are the tallest teeth 



I860.] 33 




4(5 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



ia the mouth. Seven short-conical, rather blunt teeth, with the anterior two 

 twice as large as the others, stand upon the vomer ; the anterior second tooth 

 a little beyond the line of the others, otherwise they form a straight series. 

 The palatine teeth number twelve or thirteen ; they are very much compressed, 

 acute, are set near to each other, and are inwardly directed ; these form the outer 

 and principal series. Two much larger ones, very near the commencement of 

 the outer series, and within that series, form the ioterior row. This inner row 

 is similar in its characters, except as to number, to the outer row of palatines. 

 The mandible is armed with a compliment of twenty-two, short, compressed 

 teeth, all inwardly directed ; the six upon the extremity of the jaw, are three 

 limes as great in length, as the principal series, and between them is generally 

 a pair of minute teeth, which are hidden by the lip, and often entirely con- 

 cealed in the soft parts of the jaw. 



Color. The head and body are of a uniform dark umber, the back and sides 

 crossed by coarse reticulations of bright sienna. The fins are nearly black, 

 with the reticulating bands that cross the body, continuous upon them. The 

 head is free from the bands of sienna, as is the throat and a small anterior 

 portion of the belly. Upon the throat and sides of the neck are narrow longi- 

 tudinal black lines, extending as far back as the gill-opening. 



Total length 18 inches. To anus S inches. To gill-opening 2 l-5th inches. 



Habitat. Sandwich Islands. 



This handsomely marked species of Thyrsoidea has every appearance of a 

 Murana, and unless closely examined might be referred that genus. The pres- 

 ence of the inner row of palatine teeth, however, preclude the propriety of its 

 being so classed. This species belongs to that class of the genus, which has 

 but tu-o teeth upon the inner row of palatines ; a peculiarity which is of too 

 slight importance to be considered generic, and is too constant to be considered 

 specific. The specimen from which the description was taken, was presented 

 to the Academy by Dr. J. K. Townsend. 



This species is named in honor of Dr. J. J. Kaup, of Darmstadt, to whom 

 science is indebted for the first systematic elucidation of the history of the 

 Apodal Fishes. 



5. Thyrsoidea eurosta, Abbott. — Spec. char. Head large, depressed; 

 the facial outline very slightly oblique. The fold of the skin enveloping the 

 dorsal fin is very thick, and arises slightly behind the occiput, nearly perpen- 

 licnlarly; the fin is of uniform height for two-thirds of its length, when it 

 slowly decreases to its termination. The eye is large, circular, and slightly 

 behind the extremity of the snout ; the orbits are one diameter and a half dis- 

 tant. The jaws are of equal length, and rather slender; the lower jaw with a 

 slight upward curve at its extremity, making the large mandibular teeth 

 partially visible when the mouth is closed. The nasal teeth number ten : they 

 are biserial, and the inner row are twice as large in every respect as the outer 

 row; they are conical, acute, and with a decided inward inclination. The 

 palatine teeth number twenty-eight upon the outer row; and nine upon the 

 inner row. The teeth constituting the outer row of palatines are short, very 

 much compressed and acute ; they have a moderate inward inclination. The 

 inner row of palatines are widely set, of various lengths, and have a gape in 

 their series, commencing posteriorly opposite the posterior margin of the orbit, 

 and ceasing opposite the anterior edges of the orbit; the teeth upon the inner 

 series' are more than twice as large in all respects as those of the outer row. 

 The vomerine teeth number twelve, nine of which are in a direct line, and the 

 remaining three concurrent with the central three of the series. The lower jaw 

 is armed with a complement of twenty-four compressed, acute teeth, having a 

 decidedly inward inclination ; the posterior twelve of these are closely set, and 

 in an unbroken series ; the anterior twelve are arranged in pairs, except at the 

 extremity of the jaw, where they form two square patches of four teeth each. 



Color. The body and head are of a uniform reddish brown, which become 



[Oct. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 4119 



learly black upon the under surface of the tail. The whole surface is minutely 

 spotted, and reticulated with pale yellowish. 



Total length, 13^ inches. To anus 6 inches. To gill-opening I J inches. 



Habitat. Sandwich Islands. 



This species is remarkably stout for its length, and presents an unusually 

 large number of teeth for the size of the animal. But a single specimen is in 

 the museum ; which specimen was collected and presented by Dr. J. K. Town- 

 send. 



6. Thyrsoidea c o n c o 1 o r . Abbott. — Spec. char. Head compressed, slightly 

 depressed upon the occiput Jaws slender. The eye is large, circular, its diame- 

 ter contained four times in the length of the side of the head, measuring from 

 the angle of the jaws. Tne dorsal fin originates at the occiput, and has a 

 slope at its commencement, of about forty-five degrees, the fin is of a uniform 

 height, until midway between the anus and the extremity of the tail, when it 

 commences gradually to decrease. The anus is slightly anterior to the centre 

 of the bod)', and the anal fin, that there has its commencement, is equal in 

 width to one-tenth of the width of the body, and extends to the extremity of 

 the tail, preserving throughout a nearly uniform width. 



The nasal teeth number twelve ; they are all slender, conical and acute, with 

 a pair of minute, compressed teeth between each pair of the marginal teeth • 

 three teeth stand upon the mesial line, the centre one of which is the tallest 

 tooth in the mouth. The outer row of the palatine teeth number sixteen ; they 

 are of uniform height, compresed, acute and with an inward tendency. The 

 inner row consists of two teeth, placedat the commencement of the outer row : 

 they are similar in all their characters to the teeth upon that row, except in 

 being of nearly triple the height. On the vomer, exist ten conical, acute teeth, 

 in a straight line ; they are of a uniform size. The mandible is armed with a 

 compliment of twenty compressed, acute teeth, having a decided inward incli- 

 ziation, but in a less degree than in the palatines ; the anterior six teeth are 

 much larger than the general series, and are more conical in their shape. 



Color. The head, body and fins are of a uniform purplish brown, varyino- in 

 its intensity upon the sides. 



Total length, 11 inches. To anus5|^ inches. To gill-opening l\ inches. 



Habitat. Vera Cruz. 



A single specimen is in the museum, presented by Dr. Burroughs, and labelled 

 as procured at the above locality. 



Note. — On pages 326 and 327, hujus operis, there are described two Eiheosto- 

 ynoids, named respectively — Pcecilosoma iransversum a,ndi Pileoma cymatogramma. 



As the name Pcecilosoma, has been changed to Poecilichilujs, the name of the 

 species will hereafter be 



Poecilichthys transversus, Abbott. 



Syn. Pcecilosma iransversum, Abbott, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1860. 

 p. 326. 



As the genus Percina. Hald. is congeneric with Pileoma, De Kay; and is prior 

 to that genus, the species described as Pileoma cymatogramma, Abb. will here- 

 after be 



Percina cymatogramma, Abbott. 



Syn. Pileoma cymatogramma, Abbott, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1860, 

 p. 327. 



Note. — On page 3G5, hujus operis, for the figure 13, given as the number of 

 rays of the anal fin. in Aslroscopus guttatus, Abb., please substitute the figure 10. 



1S60.] 




480 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEiMY OF 



Report upon the Reptilia of the North Pacific Exploring Expedition, under 

 command of Capt. John Rogers, U. S. BT. 



BY EDWARD HALLOWELL, M. D. 



EDITED BY E. D. COPE. 



Nicaragua. 

 SAURIANS. 



Geckotians. 



Geckotian Lizards — Lezards Geckotiens D. & B. 



Hemidactylus Cuv. 



Sect. Dactylopekes. Peropus Wieg. 



Div. A. — Suhdigital lamella entire. 



Hemidactylus pe^signis nob. 



Proceed. Acad. Nat. Sci., Oct. 1856, p. 222. 



Char. Rostral plate bilobed ; seven superior labials ; mental plate very 

 large, the sides excavated, rounded 'posteriorly ; six plates in a transverse 

 row beneath the chin, the two middle ones much smaller than the lateral ; 

 tail slender, long ; color uniform chocolate-brown above ; abdomen and under 

 part of tail whitish. Total length, 6 inches. Tail. 3 inches, 3 lines. 



Found also in Jamaica. 



Sph^eiodactylus Cuv. 



For gen. char, see D. & B., torn. ii. 401. 



Sph.zeeiodactti,us' MiiiLEPUKCTATPS nob. 



Spec. char. Dorsal scales very small, unicarinate ; color reddish, with 

 numerous small brownish spots ; under parts white ; length of head and body, 

 11 lines. 



Description. Scales upon muzzle larger than those upon the vertex ; those 

 upon body remarkable for their small size, being much smaller than those of 

 the specimens in the Museum, marked nigropunctatus, from Jamaica, 

 or of Sphseriodactylus fantasticus, from Mexico. Abdominal scales 

 carinated, very much larger than those upon the throat and chin ; color red- 

 dish-brown above, with numerous brown spots, intermingled with very 

 minute white points ; under parts white. Two specimens. 



Iguakians. 



Sauriens Eunotes D. & B. Lezards Iguaniens. 



Anolis D. & B. 



Div. A, — With fingers but slightly dilated. 



Anolis befulgens Schlegel. 



Draconura nitens Wagl. Dum. & Bib., tom. iv. p. 91. 



This species is very well characterized by the larger row of scales along the 

 median line of the back ; the granulations upon the sides are much smaller 

 than those of the back and abdomen, and there is a larger row of scales upon 

 the back of the tail ; immediately behind the mental plate are six scales, in 

 a transverse row, the four intermediate quite small, the lateral much larger ; 

 the occipital scale lies in a well marked depression, the supra-orbitar ridges 

 are nearly in contact, and on the front part of the head is a longitudinal 



[Oct. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 481 



ovoid depression, the scales of wMch are smooth ; those upon the snout cari- 

 nated, as also the scales upon the abomen ; the colors of these specimens are 

 much darker than that of another ; brownish above, and orange colored 

 mingled with yellow beneath ; in the other, the general color is golden yel- 

 low, lighter beneath, with a tinge of white upon the abdomen. Total length, 

 5^ inches ; of tail, 2 inches 8 lines. Found also in Surinam. (D. & B.) 



Anolis longicaoda nob. 



Spec. char. Scales upon the muzzle keeled ; eight superior labials ; scales 

 of abdomen carinated : dorsal scales indistinctly carinated ; median rows 

 larger ; 'tail very long ; color green ; gular pouch orange, with two indigo- 

 colored lateral stripes, one on each side. Total length, 5 inches, 5 lines. 



Description. 44 teeth in the upper jaw ; 10 posterior tricuspid ; 43 in the 

 lower ; the 10 or 11 posterior distinctly trilobed ; scales upon the muzzle 

 keeled ; two crests upon the head, prolongations of the superciliary ridges, 

 circumscribing laterally a longitudinal depression, broader in front ; the 

 scales in this depression polygonal, much larger than those upon the muzzle, 

 keeled ; eight superior labials ; six rows of scales upon the side o{ the head 

 anteriorly, between the superior labials and its upper margin ; auricular open- 

 ing moderate ; abdominal scales much the largest, keeled ; those upon the sides 

 very small, granular ; back covered with polygonal scales, indistinctly 

 carinated ; several of the median rows larger than the others ; breadth of head 

 posteriorly, one-half of its total length ; body and extremities slender ; tail 

 very long and tapering, round at base, more than double the length of head 

 and body ; color bluish above, probably green during life ; lighter upon the 

 tail ; abdomen, chin, under part of tail and extremities very light blue ; giilar 

 pouch orange with two indigo -colored stripes, one on each side. Total 

 length 5 inches, 5 lines ; of tail, 3 inches, 10 lines. One specimen. 



Gen. remarks. This species is quite different from An. sericeus, a Mexi- 

 can species, in which the scales upon the back are granular, and of nearly 

 equal size ; it is also a stouter animal, and the tail is shorter. Anolis t r o - 

 pidogaster nob., from New Grenada, is destitute of the two well marked 

 crests so characteristic of this species, and the plates lying at the bottom of 

 the longitudinal depression between them are much longer than those oil the 

 corresponding position in t r opido g a s t er ;. .and the shape of this de- 

 pression is quite different, being much broader in front, in longicauda'. 

 In Anolis pulchellus D. ^ B., the carinations of the scales before the 

 back and abdomen are indistinct ; whereas, in the present species they are 

 well marked ; the tail in the former is but one-third the total length. 



Anolis cupreus nob. 



Spec. char. Scales upon muzzle carinated ; supraorbital ridges separated 

 by several rows of scales ; three or four rows of scales intervening between 

 each interorbitar ridge and the occipital scale ; six superior labials ; abdominal 

 and dorsal scales very distinctly carinated ; those upon tail very strongly 

 keeled ; copper colored above, whitish beneath ; throat orange ; in some 

 specimens a black spot upon the shoulder. Length of head and body 1 inch 

 8 lines. 



Description. A small species. Scales upon the muzzle very distinctly cari- 

 nated ; supraorbitar ridges separated by several rows of scales ; three or 

 four rows of scales intervening between the supraorbitar ridge and the occipital 

 scale ; six or seven supraorbitar scales separated from the supraorbitar ridge 

 by a single i-ow of granules ; three scales carinated, and two of them much 

 larger than the others ; six superior labial scales ; six or seven rows of scales 

 upon the sides of the head anteriorly above the supraorbitars ; auricular 

 opening moderate ; scales of the flanks smaller than those upon the back and 

 abdomen ; abdominal and dorsal scales very distinctly carinated ; those upon 



18G0.] 




482 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



tail very strongly keeled ; copper colored above, whitish, or yellowish white 

 beneath ; throat often orange, and in some specimens a black spot over the 

 shoulder. Length of head and body 1 inch 8 lines. Seventeen specimens. 



Daconuka Wagler, Wiegmann. 

 Daconuea bivittata nob. 



Spec. char. Head covered with polygonal plates of unequal size ; color 

 brownish above, with two lateral white vittae, bordered with black, one on 

 each side, commencing behind the eyes, and extending the whole length of 

 the body, as far as the base of the tail ; under parts white. Total length 4| 

 inches ; of tail, 1 inch 4 lines. 



Description. Seven supra labials, nostril in a single scale ; plates upon 

 front and muzzle unicarinate ; superciliary wide, separated by two rows of 

 scales, a single row between former and occipital scale ; a^ single row of scales 

 much larger than the rest, commencing at about three lines from the occiput, 

 and extending along the median line of the back and tail above ; scales upon 

 back larger than upon sides ; those of the belly very distinctly carinated ; a 

 gular fold ; tympanum quite distinct ; no femoral or anal pores ; scales upon 

 under part of tail strongly carinated ; extremities slender ; third and fourth 

 fingers of nearly equal length ; fourth toe much the longest ; fingers and toes 

 slender, not dilated, inner margin serrated ; fingers and toes 5 — 5 ; tail very 

 long, slender, tapering to a point. 



Coloration. General color olive above, somewhat darker upon the sides ; 

 with two narrow white vittae, bordered with black, one on each side, com- 

 mencing behind the eye and extending the whole length of the body, being 

 lost upon the base of the tail ; extremities indistinctly barred with brown 

 above ; under parts whitish. 



Habitat. Nicaragua. A single specimen. 



ScELOPOEus Weigm. 

 ScELOPORus scalaeis Weigm. 

 Twenty-six specimens (sixteen young). 



TEID.S. 



Cnemidophorus. 



CnEMIDOPHOEUS DECElULCfEATCS UOb. 



Spec. char. Nostril 'in the posterior margin of the naso-rostral plate; 

 color grey above, with ten white lines, five on each side of the back ; eight 

 rows of abdominal scales. Total length 7| inches ; tail 4^ inches. 



Description. The nostril opens in the posterior edge of the naso-rostral 

 l)late ; five superior labials ; a single row of large transverse scales on 

 the anterior surface of the forearm ; twenty-two femoral pores in the single 

 specimen. The ground color above is greyish or olive ; in the youngest 

 specimens the intermediate space between the four upper white lines, jet 

 black, forming three distinct jet black bands on each side ; these jet 

 black bands are more distinct in the youngest specimens ; in the oldest the 

 upper surface is of an uniform olive color, darker upon the sides ; the entire 

 surface of the abdomen, and the greater part of the under surface of the 

 thighs, jet black ; anterior part of forearms white spotted ; these spots quite 

 small, and by no means so distinct or near so large as in C. lemniscatus; 

 in the younger specimens, presenting the form of vermicialations. 



Dimensions. Length of head 10 lines ; of neck and body to vent, 2 inches 

 1 line ; of tail 4^ inches. 



Habitat. Nicaragua. Seventeen specimens. 



[Oct. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 483 



Gen. remarks. This species is readily distinguislied from C. lemnis- 

 c a t u s , the latter having but nine lines, the middle one of which bifurcates 

 toward the occiput, and the sides more or less white spotted. 



Cnemidophokcs quadkilineatus nob. 



Spec. char. Nostril between the ^aso-rostral and naso-freual plate ; five 

 supra-labials ; eight rows of abdominal scales ; color brownish black above ; 

 jet black upon the sides, with two very narrow white lines, extending from 

 the temples in a line with the posterior margin of the eye, extending as far as 

 the posterior extremities ; a single row of broad scales upon the anterior sur- 

 surface of the forearms. Total length 3 inches 3 lines. 



Description. The above appears to be one of the smallest of the species of 

 Cnemidophorus. It is readily distinguished by its small size, and the pecu- 

 liarity of its markings ; in front of the gular fold is a row of four large scales, 

 followed by several smaller ones ; the back, between the two inner stripes, is 

 vermiculated with black, the sides white spotted ; the tail presents a white 

 lateral stripe, a continuation of the lower one upon the side ; under parts 

 bluish, lighter upon the chin. 



Dimensions. Length of head 5 lines ; of body to vent 11 lines ; length of 

 tail 2^ inches ; total length 3 inches 4 lines. 



Habitat. Nicaragua. Four specimens. 



Gen. remarks. Cnemidophorus prsesignis B. ^~ G., from Chagres, said 

 also to be common at Para, has ten rows of abdominal plates. 



Ameiva Cuvier. 

 Ameiva pclchra nob. 



Spec. char. Nostril between the naso-rostral and naso-frenal plates ; a 

 group of large scales upon the chin, surrounded by smaller ones ; three 

 or four large scales in front of the gular fold, surrounded by smaller scales ; 

 eight rows of abdominal plates ; color olive above, with two lateral stripes of 

 brown, one on each side, with numerous transverse rows of black. Total 

 length 8} inches. 



Description. This is a beautiful species of Ameiva, presenting distinctly 

 the characters of the genus, viz. . — the retractility of the tongue beneath the 

 glottis, which distinguishes Ameiva from Cnemidophorus. In a natural 

 series, it would take the place of Ameiva S 1 o a n e i , which it resembles very 

 closely in size, but the neck is not near so narrow as in that species ; there is 

 but a single row of large transverse scales in front of the forearm ; the granu- 

 lations upon the back are distinctly larger than those upon the sides ; twenty 

 femoral pores ; the color of the head is light brown above, and upon the sides ; 

 olive colored or light brown upon the back, with a band of deep brown along 

 each side, presenting numerous transverse bars of black ; abdomen bluish, the 

 rest of the under surface white, with a tinge of blue ; in many of the speci- 

 mens a row of white spots extends from the tympanum to the posterior 

 extremity, occasionally assuming the form of a very narrow white line ; a 

 white spot upon the temple, and three or four around the margin of the tym- 

 panum. Eighteen specimens. 



Habitat. Nicaragua. 



SciNCiDiE Ophiophthalmidoe. 



Among the saurians of the collection from Nicaragua are two small lepido- 

 saurians belonging to the subfamily Ophiopthalmidre, and which appear to 

 belong to a genus not yet described, having four toes to each of the anterior, 

 and the same number to each of the posterior extremities. For the dis- 

 tinctive characters of the genera already known, see D. et B., tom. v., 

 806-831. It may be thus characterized; — No eyelid ; nostrils lateral, opening 

 in a single scale ; no supero-nasals ; teeth conical, simple ; tongue bifid, 



I860.] 




484 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



covered with scales ; palate without teeth, with a triangular excavation : 

 auricular openings ; four extremities each with four toes ; scales smooth, 

 neither femoral or prseanal pores ; palpebral circle, more or less complete. It 

 will be observed that these characters are precisely the same as those of the 

 genus Ablepharus of Fitzinger, as given by D. & B., except that the number 

 of fingers and toes is four instead of five. 



Gen. Blepharactisis nob. 

 Blepharactisis speciosa nob. 



Spec. char. An internasal, two fronto-nasals, a small frontal, a large inter- 

 parietal, two parietals ; color dark olive above, with two dark lateral stripes, 

 one on each side ; under parts lighter. Total length 1^ inches ; of head and 

 body 8 lines. 



Habitat. Nicaragua. Two specimens. 



OPHIDIANS. 



SyNCRANTERID/K. 



Leptophis Bell. 

 Leptophis siargaritiferus D. & B., tom. vii. p. 539. 



Herpetodryas margaritiferus Schlegel, Essai la Physionomie des Serpens, 

 tom. i. p. 151, and tom. ii. p. 184. Two specimens. 



Fam. Calamarid^. 



LiONiNiA nob. 



Gen. Char, Frontal stout, hexagonal, somewhat longer than broad ; nostrils 

 between two plates ; no frenal, one preocular, two postoculars ; seven superior 

 labials, the eye resting on the third and fourth; pupil round; scales smooth, 

 quadrangular; tail quite stout, with bifid scutes. Size that of a Calamarian ; 

 palatine as well as mandibular teeth apparently of equal length. 



LlONINIA VERMIFORMIS HOb, 



Spec. char. Color whitish above, with numerous small brown spots formed 

 by a series of black spots, occupying each scale ; in some specimens a narrow 

 black dorsal line, extending from the occiput as far as the extremity of the tail : 

 in others this line is quite indistinct; a spot or blotch upon the occiput, of the 

 same color as that of the body ; head brown above, lighter upon the snout; 

 under parts of animal white. Total length, 5 inches, 1 line ; tail 8 lines. Ab. 

 scut. 122 ; a single preanal ; subcaud. 26. 



Habitat. Nicaragua ; 3 specimens. 



Gen. remarks. In the arrangement of the plates upon the head, this genus 

 resembles very closely Streptophorus, but the form of the scales is quite 

 difi'erent, — which in the latter genus are more or less carinated. It belongs 

 to the family of Calaraarians, as defined by Dumeril & Bibron, viz.: Body very 

 slender, rounded, and about the same thickness from the head to the tail. E. G. 

 tome vii. p. 48. It diS'ers, however, from each of the nine genera of which 

 that family is composed. In Calamaria and Rhabdosoma, the nostrils open in 

 a single scale, as well as in Rabdion, Homalosoma and Carphophis. In Elapoidis. 

 the scales are carinated. In Aspidura, the urostega are in a single row. 



Stenocephalid.5;. (Serpens Opistoglyphes) D. tj- B. 



Gen. CoNioPHANES Hallowell. 



Char. Head very much flattened, pupil round, supraciliaries not projecting; 

 nostril in a single plate ; a postnasal about twice as high as it is long ; a 

 somewhat quadrangular frenal; one aniocular, two postoculars; a single 



[Oct- 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 485 



anterior temporal ; two internasals ; two prefrontals, much longer than the 

 internasal3 ; a frontal longer than broad, occipitals large. Head somewhat 

 broader than neck, posteriorly ; scales smooth, lanceolate. 19 or 2 1 rows ; nearly 

 quadrangular upon the tail ; anal and subcaudal scutes bifid ; abdomen slightly 

 angular f tail long and tapering ; posterior tooth much longer than the rest 

 and distinctly channelled; the teeth in the upper jaw increase in length as 

 they recede backward. 



CONIOPHANES FISSIDENS UOb. 



Spec. char. 19 rows of smooth scales near the middle ; color brownish, 

 approaching to violet, with two somewhat indistinct lateral stripes, and a 

 median dark colored one upon the back ; abdomen whitish, with a row of 

 minute black points on each side and upon the tail ; a narrow white vitta, 

 commencing on the first labial, passes beneath the eye along the temples, and 

 is lost upon the sides of the neck ; another, shorter upon the back, commencing 

 at the occiput. Total length 8 inches; of tail 7^ inches; circumference 1 inch. 



Habitat. Nicaragua. One specimen. 



OXYCEPHALID.E. 



Dryophis aenets. One specimen. 



CoxocERQUES. (Serpens Proteroglyphes.) 



Elaps Schn. 



Elaps melanocephalcs nob. 



Spec. char. Entire head, chin and throat black; 16 black rings upon th« 

 body, margined with white ; 4 distinct rings upon tail ; inter-spaces between 

 black rings spotted with black; 200 abdom. scuta; a double praeanal ; 52 

 subcaudal; 15 rows of scales. 



Habitat. Nicaragua. One specimen. 



B ATRAC m A ANOURA. 



Ranid^. 



Ctstignathus melanonotus nob. 



Spec. char. Color black above, black spotted ; a black subround spot 

 between the eyes ; under parts white, minutely mottled and spotted with 

 brown ; body and extremities slender. 



Description. Head of moderate size, e^^es not remarkably prominent, tympanum 

 well developed, tongue obcordate, not notched posteriorly ; palatine teeth in 

 two transverse rows; the anterior margin on a line with the posterior margin 

 of the posterior nares ; color as stated in the specific character. 



Dimensions. Length of head 4 lines ; greatest breadth 3 ; length of head and 

 body 9 lines ; length of anterior extremities 6 lines ; of posterior, 1 inch ; of 

 thigh 3 lines ; of leg 4 ; of tarsus 2 lines ; of foot to extremity of longest toe 

 4} lines. 



Habitat. Nicaragua. One specimen ; perhaps the young of a larger animal. 



Hyla geisea nob. 



Spec. char. Skin smooth, tongue obcordate, notched posteriorly, palatine 

 teeth in two fasciculi behind the posterior nares; color light grey, a brown 

 above, with darker maculations ; length l\ inches. 



Description. Head triangular ; snout somewhat acute ; nostrils two lines 

 apart; tongue obcordate, slightly notched posteriorly; extremities slender; 

 toes palmate at their base, the webs reaching to the proximal extremity of the 

 second phalanx, tympanum of moderate size, eyes slightly prominent. Color 

 grey or brownish above, with a transverse bar of darker grey between the 



I860.] 




486 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



eyes ; behind this a blotch with irregular margins, resembling the letter W ; 

 there are also upon the back irregular blotches of a darker grey than the 

 surrounding surface; thighs mottled posteriorly with black and white, varied 

 with grey in front; legs and tarsi with transverse bars of grey, also arms and 

 forearms ; under parts white. 



Dimensions. Length of head 8 lines ; greatest breadth 6 ; length of head 

 and body 1 inch, 8 lines ; length of anterior extremities 1 inch ; of posterior, 

 3 inches; of thigh 8 lines; of leg 11 ; of foot to extremity of longest toe 11. 



Bdfonid.?:. 

 bufo melanogastee uob. 



Spec. char. Supra-orbitar ridges slightly developed ; internal nares of 

 moderate size : tongue elongate, cordiform, rounded posteriorly ; free for rather 

 more than half of its length posteriorly; color grey with a longitudinal row 

 of subround black spots on either side of the median line ; extremities varied 

 with black: under parts yellow marbled with black; length 1 inch, 1 line; of 

 posterior extremities 1 inch, 3 lines; of anterior, 8 lines. 



Habitat. Nicaragua. One specimen. 



Gen. remarks. Most probably the young of a larger animal. 



California. 



SA URIANS. 



Igdaniens Pleurodontes D. & B. 



SCELOPORUS BISEKIATUS nob. 



One specimen. 



BATRACUIANS. 



Urodela Airetoderes D. & B. 



Axaides lugubkis Baird. Six specimens — three adult, three young. 



The lateral yellow spots are much more distinct in these specimens than in 

 others in our collection. They are of a bright chrome yellow color, and 

 irregularly disposed. In the young specimens, these spots are indistinct. 



Taeicha torosus Grans, One specimen, taken near Valiejo, California, 

 Nov., 1855, by Mr. Wright. 



Batrachoseps attencjatus Gray. Eight specimens — six adult, two young. 



Oceania. 



CHELOJ^'IANS. 



Chelonia jitdas (young). Seven specimens. In five of these the nuchal 

 plate is bifid. 

 Habitat. Bonin Islands. 



SA URIANS. 

 Vakanid.e. 



Varanus bivittatus D. & B. 

 One specimen. 

 Habitat. Gaspar Straits. 



SciNGOiDiANS ou Saurlens Lepidosaures D. ij- B. 



EuPEEPis Wagler. 



Edprepis concolor nob. 



Spec. char. Nasal plate rounded posteriorly, anterior margin curvilinear; 



[Oct. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 487 



supero-nasals rather slender, contiguous ; internasal lozenge-shaped ; two 

 fronto- nasals in contact; a frontal long with an acute angle anteriorly, its 

 lateral margins nearly straight ; two fronto-parietals rather long : an inter- 

 parietal, two parietals ; a small freno-nasal, two frenals, the anterior smaller 

 than the posterior and nearly quadrangular in shape ; two freno-orbitars ; 

 seven superior labials, inferior eyelid scaly; prseanal scales unequal, the two 

 middle oblong ; scales of neck strongly tricarinate ; color uniform brown 

 above, white below. Length 7 inches, 8 lines ; of tail 4 inches, 5 lines : of 

 head 10 lines. 



Habitat. Gaspar Straits. One specimen. 



Gen. remarks. Dumeril & Bibron describe thirteen species of Euprepis, of 

 which but two have the inferior eyelid destitute of a transparent disk, viz.: 

 E. S e b ae and E. E r n e s t i. From both of these the species above described 

 difters remarkably. It the latter the supranasals are not contiguous ; in the 

 former the carinas upon the scales are indistinct; it is also a larger animal. 

 The specimen above described was taken on South Brother Island, Gaspar 

 Straits, by Mr. Squires, of the U. S. steamer T. Hancock. It is common. The 

 Malay name is Kgedal. 



Ablepharcs. ' 



Ablephaeds uigropuxctatus nob. 



Spec. char. Internasal four-sided ; the sides nearly equal ; the posterior angle 

 rounded; but much more acute than in A. Peronii; the fronto-parietals 

 quadrilateral; no inter-parietal; two parietals, no naso-frenal ; two freno- 

 orbitars ; seven superior labials ; six praanal scales, the two middle the largest. 

 Color greenish olive above, marked all over with black spots, the spots on the 

 sides agglomerated so as to form a black band extending from the posterior 

 margin of the eye as far as the posterior extremities ; extremities and tail black 

 spotted, the black spots smaller and most distinct upon the under part of 

 the tail ; chin black spotted; abdomen, as well as ground color of chin and 

 under part of tail and extremities, light green. 



Dimensions, Length of head 4 lines; greatest breadth 2^; length of body 

 1 inch, 3 lines ; of tail 8 lines. 



Habitat. Bonin Islands. One specimen. Taken Oct., 1854, by Capt. Rodgers. 



Ablepharus peronii D. & B. Tom. v. p. 814. Three specimens. 

 Habitat. Tahiti. 



Lygosoma. 



Lygosoma vertebrale nob. 



Spec. char. Lower eyelid transparent; two fronto-parietals; nasal plates 

 quite separate; internasal five-sided; fronto-nasal not contiguous; two 

 fronto-parietals; one inter-parietal; two parietals; frontal long, acutely 

 angular posteriorly, obtusely so in front. Color : Head brown, mottled with 

 darker brown upon the sides ; a light colored stripe extending from the occiput 

 as far as the root of the tail ; on either side a row of dark brown blotches 

 with minute intervening spots ; a broad dark brown colored band on each 

 side, extending from the temple along the side, about half-way down the tail ; 

 .above this band, the ground color lighter, resembling that of the vertebral band ; 

 upper part of tail yellowish, minutely spotted with brown; abdomen white 

 with a tinge of blue; chin, throat and under part of tail yellowish, brown 

 spotted. 



Dimensions. Length of head 4 lines ; greatest breadth 2 ; length of body to 

 vent 1 inch, 2 lines; of tail II lines. Total length 2 inches, 4 lines. 



Habitat. Sandwich Islands. 



Gen. remarks. A new and interesting addition to the species, not very 

 numerous, of the genus Lygosoma. 

 18G0] 




488 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



OPHIDIA. 



Sub. ord. Opistbogljphes. 



Gen. Megalops nob. 



Gen. char. Mandibular teeth, increasing in length posteriorly, recurved, 

 nearly straight : two internasals much smaller than the prefrontals ; frontal a 

 little longer than broad, pentangular; a frenal ; two antoculars, two post- 

 oculars; eye resting on the fourth supra-labial; pupil ovoid: eyes very 

 prominent: body slender, much compressed; abdomen angular; tail rather 

 short. 



Megalops maculatcs nob. 



Spec. char. Twenty-one rows of smooth scales ; body presenting numerous 

 sub-quadrangular and oblique blotches above, of a brown color ; intermediate 

 spaces white with a tinge of yellow ; under surface white. 



Abdom. scuta 170. A bifid praeanal; 61 subcaudal scutell«. 



Dimemions. Length of head, neck and body 1 foot, 2 inches, 10 lines ; length 

 of tail 3f inches. 



Habitat. Tahiti. One specimen, collected by Mr. Adams. 



Gen. remarks. The posterior teeth in the upper jaw have been destroyed in 

 the specimen, so that it is impossible to determine the family to which it 

 belongs ; most probably of the order Opisthoglyphes ; the head is otherwise 

 much injured. A small and not very prepossessing looiiing serpent. 



Sub. ord. Serp. Aglyphodontes ou Azemiophides, D. ^ B. 



Gen. Aepidea nob. 



Char. Head long and narrow, broader posteriorly, almost truncate in front; 

 teeth smooth recurved, the anterior, both in the upper and lower jaw, longer 

 than the posterior; the same is the case with the palatines, equally spaced ; 

 nine plates upon the top of the head, the prefrontals remarkable for their large 

 size; frontal longer than broad; two large occipitals ; body very long, much 

 thicker in the middle, compressed, with smooth scales, broader and shorter upon 

 the back than upon the sides ; abdomen angular; tail about one-ihird the 

 length of head and body: urostega bifid ; praeanal scute bifid. 



Aepidea robusta nob. 



Description. The teeth are strong, sharp-pointed, much inclined backward, 

 the eyes are of moderate size, the pupil round ; the rostral plate is triangular 

 in shape, broader than high, the internasals of moderate size, the prefrontals 

 very large, and more or less rhomboidal in shape ; the frontal quite broad 

 anteriorly, its latero-superior angles bevelled, presenting an obtuse angle 

 posteriorly; the supra-oculars long, of moderate breadth behind; the occipitals 

 much longer than broad ; nostrils between two plates, large; the posterior the 

 larger of the two ; the frenal is remarkable for its great length and unusual 

 position ; its upper margin is curved, terminating in a point posteriorlj', about 

 one-half of it passing below the antocular; there are ten superior labials ; the 

 eye resting on the sixth and seventh ; the seventh is larger and of quite a 

 diiferent shape from the others, its posterior portion being prolonged upward 

 and backward to meet the inferior postocular; the antocular is remarkable for 

 its very large size ; it is more or less rhomboidal in shape, in contact in front 

 with the prefrontal, above with the frontal and supra-ocular, below by the 

 greater part of its extent with the frenal, and with the fifth and sixth supia- 

 labials ; of the two postoculars the superior is somewhat larger than the 

 inferior; the anterior genials are much larger than the posterior; the neck is 

 long and slender, the body much thicker, compressed en toil ; scales smooth, 

 those upou the sides lanceolate, the four or five rows upon the back larger: 

 abdomen very angular; tail of moderate length, scales hexagonal; the two 



[Oct. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 489 



middle dorsal rows larger than the others ; twenty-three rows of scales upon 

 the middle of the body, eight near the origin of the tail. Color olive in spirits, 

 probably green during life ; abdomen and under part of tail green. 



Dimensions. Length of head 13 lines ; breadth posteriorly 6; length of back 

 and body 2 feet, 9 inches; of tail 12 inches, 8 lines. Total length -ij feet ; 

 circumference of body at middle 2 inches. Ab. scut. 236; 1 bifid praeanal ; 

 146 urostega. 



Habitat. Gaspar Straits. One specimen. 



Proteroglyphes — Platycerqnes D. ^ B. 

 Platcrus fasciatus Latreille. One fine specimen. Black bands complete ; 

 larger considerably upon the back than abdomen ; a white spot on each side of 

 the occipitals. Aricamote of the Tahitians. Captured in Bananas Baj', Tahiti, 

 March 19th, 1855. Presented by Mr. Adams, of Papete. Total length 2 feet, 7 

 inches ; of tail 8 inches ; circumference 2 inches, 8 lines. 



Platurus fasciatus Var. 



Char. Snout black ; extremity of tail black ; forty complete black bands upon 

 the body; besides three incomplete upon the neck; six complete black bands 

 upon the tail ; three and a-half rows of scales in black bands upon the back, 

 and one and a-half in the white interspace. Total length 1 foot, 9 J inches. The 

 largest specimen measures 3 feet, 9 inches in length and 6 inches in circumference. 

 The tail measures 4 J inches in length by IJ inches in height at its base. The 

 coloration corresponds with that of the plate of Hydrophis colubrina, in 

 the Fauna Japonica. The abdomen, chin and throat are ochraceous throughout, 

 the bands having disappeared entirely from the belly ; 23 rows of scales near 

 the middle of the body; chin and throat covered with scales; ab. scuta. 198, 

 of which the 4 last are bifid; 32 bifid urostega. Besides the above there are 

 two other specimens, from Cleopatra Island, more fully grown, one completely 

 adult, (Hydrophis colubrina Schlegel's Fauna Japonica, tab. 10). The only 

 difference which I observe between the latter and Prof. Schlegel's specimen, is 

 that the scales in the latter do not appear to be quite so broad. The markings 

 in the two specimens before us are quite different from those of the younger 

 ones, in which the black and white bands are very distinct and complete, 

 encircling the whole body ; but in the one which may be nearly half grown, they 

 are so only upon the tail and the posterior part of the body, the abdomen beinc 

 of a dull, ochraceous yellow in the greater part of its extent, as well as the neck 

 and throat, somewhat deeper brown opposite the bands ; the length of this 

 specimen is 2 feet, 9J inches ; circumference 3 inches, 3 lines ; the extremity 

 of fhe tail is black ; 6 complete bands upon the tail. 



Two other specimens of this variety are in the collection, from Loo-Choo, 

 younger than either of the others. In the smaller, which measures 1 foot, 2 

 inches in length, and 8 lines only in circumference, the black rings are of nearly 

 equal length upon the back and abdomen, being very closely approximated in 

 the latter position ; the very tip of the tail in the smallest specimen is white. 

 The specimen marked 243, taken by Capt. Stevens, at Cleopatra Island (north 

 of Ousima), May, 1855. 



Pelamis Daudin. 

 Pelamis bicolor Daudin. One specimen. 

 Habitat. Tahiti. 



New Holland. 



SAURIA. 



LEPiDosArKiAx or Scincoid Lizards. 



Saiirophthalmes D. & B. 



Lygosoma Gray. 



LyGOSOMA GUICHENOTI D. & B. 



I860.] 




490 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Habitat. Sidney. One specimen. 



Ltgosoma t^niolatum D. & B. 



Sjn. Lacerta tceniolata Sbaw, Gen. Zool. torn. 3, p. 239. 



Sj>ec. char. Eyelid scaly, two fronto-parietals ; nasals in contact ; fronto- 

 nasals separate ; ground color of back and upper part of tail yellowish-brown, 

 with a longitudinal band of black along the middle line of the back, commencing 

 at the occiput, and lost upon the tail, bordered with white ; a black lateral 

 band on each side, commencing at the nostrils, between which and the eye it is 

 narrow, and passing along the temples and sides of the body, as far as the origin 

 of the tail, where it is continuous with a very narrow black band extending 

 about an inch upon the tail. 



BATRACHIA. 



HvLA. CTANSA Daud. One specimen. Sidney (young). Taken Dec, 1853. 



Loo-Choo. 



SA URIA. 



Sacriexs Eunotes D. & B. 



Sub. fam. Iguaniens Acrodontes. 



Gen. DiPLODERMA nob. 



Gen. diar. Head pyramido-triangular, covered with polygonal carinated 

 scales, of unequal size ; nostrils lateral in a large plate near its upper border ; 

 a small nuchal crest ; no external ear openings ; body covered with strongly 

 carinated scales, many of which are quite large ; those upon the anterior and 

 lateral parts of the body quite small : tail long and slender, cyclo-tetragonal 

 at base, covered with carinated scales, not verticillate ; no femoral or anal 

 pores; body slender, compressed; extremities slender, fingers and toes 5 — 5; 

 tono-ue slender, adherent, notched posteriorly ; 40 teeth in the upper jaw ; five 

 small incisors, two canines on each side, the second more robust and slightly 

 lonf^er than the first; the remaining teetti tricuspid, with obtuse summits, the 

 five first smaller than the others : 34 lower, two canines of about equal length 

 The teeth, with the exception of the laniaiies and intermaxillaries, are all very 

 closely iu contact, inclining inward, and firmly imbedded in the jaw. and not 

 along its border : no palatine teeth. 



DiPLODEEMA POLTGOXATUir nob. 



Description. A longitudinal row of carinated scales upon the snout behind 

 tlie nostril ; frontal region depressed ; supraciliary ridges low, separated from 

 each other by two rows of small scales, and communicating with the longi- 

 tudinal ridge' above mentioned by two or three scales on each side; supra- 

 ocular regions convex ; no well marked occipital scale ; seven superior labials ; 

 a uuchaC not elevated crest ; no transverse gular fold ; neck slightly folded : 

 body slender, covered with carinated scales, some of which, here and there 

 interspersed, are much larger than the others ; the axilla, and that part of 

 the body immediately within the arm and above it, covered with very small 

 scales ; this patch of small scales contrasting strongly with the larger scales 

 upon the back and sides ; chin and throat covered with strongly carinated 

 scales : scales of abdomen triangular, strongly unicarinate, the carina extend- 

 ing the whole length of the scale ; upper surface of arms and extremities 

 covered with strongly carinated scales ; those on the inner and anterior sur- 

 face of the arm smaller than those upon the corresponding surface of the 

 forearm : posterior extremities covered with strongly carinated scales ; third 



[Oct. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 491 



and fourth fingers of nearly equal length ; fourth toa the longest ; margins of 

 lingers and toes serrated, the under surface protected with transverse scales : 

 soles of feet covered with strongly carinated scales, ending in a spine ; palms 

 covered with very small scales. 



Color. Uniform greenish-olive above, somewhat deeper upon the back, 

 much lighter beneath, with a marked tinge of yellow ; eight dark colored 

 bands upon the tail. 



Dimensions. Length of head 9 lines ; greatest breadth 5 lines : length of 

 body 1\ inches ; tail 5 J inches ; total length 7 inches 9 lines. 



Habitat. Amakarima Island. One specimen. 



Gen. remarlcs. Lyriocephalus, Otocryptus, Ceratophorus, and Phryno- 

 cephalus are Iguanian Acrodont saurians, with ears concealed beneath the 

 integument ; but Diploderma differs from each of these. Lyriocephalus has 

 the snout surmounted by a rounded protuberance ; the dentition of Oto- 

 cryptus is altogether diiFerent, and in Ceratophorus, as its name indicates, the 

 snout is prolonged into a sort of horn. See D. & B. tom. v. p. 433. The 

 head of Phrynocephalus is nearly circular ; the tail is much shorter, and the 

 body is covered all over with minute scales, being quite a different animal in 

 its general appearance. 



Otocrtptis Weig. 



Among the saurians in the Loo-Choo collection is a very small Acrodont 

 Iguanian, no doubt a young animal, which appears to belong to a genus very 

 near if not identical with the Otocryptus of Weigmann. The form of the head, 

 however, is different from that of Otocryptus, as described by Dumeril & 

 Bibron, and the number of molar teeth is less, viz. : — eight instead of twelve. 

 The specimen, small as it is, is much mutilated, and otherwise injured, but 

 the following characters can be distinctly made out. 



Gen. char. Head rounded, and high posteriorly, the anterior slope 

 more gradual than the posterior, the front and vertex being nearly on 

 a line ; snout covered with polygonal scales ; supraorbitar ridges dis- 

 tinct ; eyelids covered with carinated scales of nearly equal size ; occiput 

 covered with polygonal scales, p^ytly smooth, partly carinate ; temples 

 covered with carinated scales; eyelids covered with small scales. The in- 

 cisor teeth on each side separate, a conical canine, and eight tricuspid, the 

 first three the smallest, the last two the largest ; the same number in the 

 lower jaw; ears concealed by the integument; body covered with scales 

 arranged in transverse rows ; five fingers without serratures, the fourth finger 

 a little the longest, all armed with recurved nails ; tail slender. 



Dimensions. Length of head 4 lines ; of neck and body 6^ lines ; of tail 

 (mutilated) 10 lines ; length of anterior extremities 6 lines ; of posterior 



Habitat. Loo-Choo. One specimen. Caught Nov. 1854, by McKnight. 



Gen. remarks. But one species of Otocryptus is described by Dumeril <fc 

 Bibron. viz. : — O. bivittata Weig. , the habitat of which is unknown. 



GECKOTID.iK. 



Lezards Geckotiens, ou Sauriens Ascalabotes D. k B. 



Gen. Hbmidactylus. 



Sect. Dacttloteles D. & B. 



Sub. div. A. — Dact.Jissipedes. 



Hemidactylps mabmoratds nob. 



Spec. char. Mental plate pentangular, small ; behind these several series 

 of unequal scales, larger than those upon the throat ; a transverse row of 

 plates immediately behind the mental and first infra-labials ; the two middle 

 much larger than the lateral ones ; eleven supra-labials on each side ; ventral 



I860.] 




492 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



plate pentangular, much, broader than high, presenting an angle posteriorly ; 

 scales upon the muzzle and in front of the orbits, nearly equal, small ; head 

 covered with small granulations ; five rows of very small circular tubercles 

 on each side of the back above ; a row of seven pores in front of the anus ; 

 color greyish, marked all over with black ; abdomen white ; chin and throat 

 wMte, marked with brown. 



Dimensions. Length of head 7 lines ; greatest breadth 4J lines ; length of 

 head and body 1 inch 8 lines. 



Habitat. Loo-Choo. One specimen. 



Hemidacttlus inoenatus nob. 



Spec. char. Mental plate triangular, large ; but two plates immediately 

 behind the mental, large and quadrangular ; immediately behind them two 

 others, smaller, and also more or less quadrangular ; rostral plate broader 

 than high, not presenting an acute angle posteriorly ; the plates behind it 

 rather small, with one intermediate, eleven supra-labials, the last six the 

 smallest ; but two rows of circular tubercles on either side of the median line ; 

 no tubercles upon the head ; scales small, and for the most part equal ; color 

 uniform drab above, with a few dark colored maculations ; under parts white. 



Dimensions. Length of head six lines ; greatest breadth four lines ; length of 

 body 1 inch 3 lines ; of tail 



Habitat. Loo-Choo. One specimen. Caught in a shed, I^ov. 1854, (W. S.) 



Gen. remarks. This species is readily distinguished from the preceding 

 by the different shape and size of the mental plate, and arrangement of the 

 scales posterior to it, and the presence of pores in front of the anus. 



SCIJfCID^. 



Plestiodon D. & B. 



Plestiodon MARGi.vATirs uob. 



Spec. char. Rostral plate comparatively high; internasal presenting 

 an obtuse and rounded angle posteriorly ; fronto-nasal not in contact, being 

 separated by a considerable interval ; frontal plate heptagonal, more or less 

 truncate anteriorly ; seven superior labials ; olive colored above, with a tinge 

 of red upon the head, and a broad, brickdust colored stripe, commencing upon 

 the temples, and extending along the sides of the neck, and the body, as far 

 the root of the tail ; under parts silvery white. Twenty-five rows of scales ; 

 five in front of the tail. 



Dimensions. Length of head 11^ lines ; greatest breadth 8 lines ; length of 

 body 2 inches 8 lines ; of tail 2 inches 9 lines ; of anterior extremities 11 Lines ; 

 of posterior 15 lines. 



Habitat. Ousima, Japan, and Loo-Choo Islands. 



Gen. remarks. The specimen from Loo-Choo is much smaller, and evidently 

 the young of the same species. The lateral stripe of brown is bordered with 

 obscure white, and there is a vitta of the same color running along the middle 

 of the back. This species, with the exception of the lateral band bears a 

 striking resemblance to Plestiodon laticepsof the Southern U. S., but the 

 red upon the head is not near so deep, and the shape of the rostral and 

 frontal plates is quite different, and the fronto-nasals are closely in contact. 

 The smaller specimen, caught April, 1855, by Mr. Stimpson. The larger, 

 May, of the same year. 



OPHIDIA. 



Ckotalians. 



BOTHROPS FLAVOVIEIDIS nob. 



Description. The head is large, triangular in shape, covered above and below 

 with smcoth ecales, in this respect differing from typical Bothrops, in which 



[Oct. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 493 



the scales upon the top of the head are carinate : eight superior labials ; 

 third and fourth the largest ; seven temporals ; the two anterior, of which the 

 superior is the larger, separated from the orbit by a row of small scales ; the 

 plates over the eyes are of moderate size, single ; the rostral jilate is broader 

 than high ; the head is much larger posteriorly than in front, where it 

 is somewhat truncate ; neck much contracted ; body rather slender, 

 presenting near the middle twenty-seven rows of lanceolate carinate 

 scales, the carinse extending the whole length of the scale, and the 

 rows running very obliquely ; besides these carinated scales there are two 

 other inferior rows, running very obliquely, which are smooth, the total num- 

 ber of rows of scales being thirty-one ; the scales upon the tail are much broader 

 than those upon the back ; the ground color of the head above is ochraceous 

 yellow, presenting numerous dark colored Ihies, probably green during life ; 

 a narrow vitta of the same color extends from behind the eye to the posterior 

 and external angle of the head, a short distance above the commissure of the 

 jaw ; a bar, broader than the rest, is seen on each side of the inner aspect of 

 the occiput, bending inward, and extending for a space of two and a half 

 inches along the side of the neck; the jaws and throat are yellow (straw 

 colored), as well as the abdomen ; the under part of the tail is also yellow, but 

 presents a number of bluish colored maculae on each side ; the ground color 

 of the body above is dirty yellow, with longitudinal dark colored interrupted 

 bars on each side ofrthe median line, with intervening spaces of yellow ; upon 

 the tail the dark colored portions present the form of double triangles, united 

 at their bases, upon the median line, with a subround yellow spot in the 

 centre, and having upon their sides triangular interspaces of yellow ; eighty-one 

 urostega ; ab. sciita sixty-one. The specimen being much mutilated, it is 

 difficult to ascertain with precision its total length. 



Habitat. Amakarima Island (one of the Loo-Choo group.) 



Proteeoglyphes. 

 Platurus fasciatus. 

 One specimen, young, captured at Nara, Loo-choo, June, 1853, byW. Hfeine. . 



Aglyphodontes. 

 Gen. Eprypholis nob. 

 Char. Scales and plates of the head polished, the plates of the head espe- 

 cially ; eyes lateral, projecting ; pupil round ; body slender ; tail short, with 

 bifid scutella : nine plates upon the top of the head ; the internasal small ; the 

 prefrontals large, the frontal larger than broad, pentagonal ; nostril between 

 two plates ; a rather narrow frenal ; one preocular ; two postoculars ; eight 

 supra-labials ; the eye resting on the fourth and fifth ; scales hexagonal, semi- 

 oarinate upon the back. 



E0RYPHOLIS SEMICARINATUS UOb. 



Spec. char. Uniform green above, white beneath ; total length 1 foot T| 

 inches ; of tail 4 inches 5 lines ; 189 sb. scut. ; 1 bifid prae-anal ; 77 sub. caud. 



Description. This serpent has very much the general appearance of a 

 Leptophis, but the tail is shorter ; the scales upon the back are strictly hexa- 

 gonal, those upon the sides have their posterior margins somewhat rounded ; 

 the three inferior rows on each side are smooth ; of the plates upon the head, 

 the posterior nasal is larger than the anterior ; the frenal longer than high, 

 resting upon the supralabials ; the superior postocular larger than the in- 

 ferior ; three temporal plates ; one in front immediately behind the post- 

 oculars and between the seventh supralabial and the occipitals, the other 

 two, one above and the other behind these, between the occipital and the 

 eighth supralabial plate ; the frontal presents an acute angle posteriorly ; the 

 occipitals, of moderate size, pentangular ; the neck is of nearly the same 



I860.] 34 




494 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



thickness as the posterior part of the head ; the scales upon the tail, with the 

 exception of the inferior row on each side, which is smooth, are also semi- 

 carinate ; fifteen rows of scales upon the middle of the body ; sixteen upon the 

 neck (scales more narrow) ; eight at the origin of the tail. 



Dimmsions. Length of head 6 lines ; breadth 4 lines ; circumference of 

 body at middle 14 lines. 



Habitat. Loo-Choo. Caught by Mr. Wright, near Napa, Nov. 1854. Two 

 specimens. Another from Japan. 



lu tlie collection are no turtles from the Loo-Choo Islands. 



BATRACHIA. 



Urodela. 

 Fam. Atketodeees. 

 Gen. Triton Laurenti, 

 Tbiton subckistatus Schlegel. 



3yn. Salam. suhcristata Schlegel, Fauna Japouica, p. 123, pi. iv. fig. 3. 



C^?!ops s!/6cmtot«s Tschudi, Class, der Batrachier, p. 94, pi. 2. 



Cynops pijrrogaster Gray, Cat. Brit. Mus. p. 25, No. 1. 



Spec. char. Head flattened ; skin granular ; back above, in some speci- 

 mens, presenting scattered yellow spots upon the back and sides ; abdomen 

 orange, with numerous black spots, resembling those of Triton cristatus ; 

 chin and throat orange ; black spotted ; under part of tail orange : tail long, 

 much compressed. 



Dimensions. Length of head six lines ; greatest breadth 6 lines ; length of 

 neck and body 1 inch 9 lines ; of tail 2 inches 8^ lines ; total length 4 inches 

 11^ lines. 



Habitat. Specimens marked No. 5, found in the Paddyfields at the 

 Amakarima Isle, Loo-Choo, April, 1855, by Mr. Squires and Mr. Macomb. 

 Other specimens, marked 53 in the Catalogue, from Ralousima. Those from 

 this place, the northern half of Ousima proper, are yellow beneath, without 

 the large black spots upon the abdomen. 



Gen. remarks. This species resembles much Triton cristatus of Europe, 

 but wants the white, minute points upon the sides and chin, and the tail is 

 much longer. According to Prof. Schlegel, the osteology of the head is also 

 different, and the number of vertebrje less, there being sixteen in Triton 

 cristatus, and but fourteen in the present species. We have compared 

 these specimens with one from Japan, due to the generosity of the Adminis- 

 tration of the Garden of Plants, and find no difference except that the black 

 spots upon the abdomen are not so numerous in the Japanese specimen, and 

 the tail is shorter and less compressed at its root. The coloration above, in 

 the Japanese specimen, is brown ; in those from Amakarima Island, a deep 

 black. We had proposed for this dark colored Triton, with its narrow and 

 much compressed tail, the name ensicauda, but, without a greater number 

 of specimens for comparison, we are unwilling, at present, to consider it a dis- 

 tinct species. 



Anoura. 



HYLIDiE. 



Hyla cyanea Daudin (young). One specimen. 



Ranid^. 



Eana rugosa (young). Two specimens. Taken at Loo-Choo, April, 1855, 

 by Mr. Stimpson. 



[Oct. 




NATVaAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 495 



Japan. 



No turtles were collected at Japan, and it is to be regretted tliat we have 

 no specimen of the Megalobatrachus among the Batrachians. For a fine figure 

 of the latter, see the Fauna Japonica, and for the plates of Trionyxaud Emys, 

 the Abbildungen of Prof. Schlegel. 



SAURIANS. 



ACTOSAURIANS. 



Sub. Fam. Autosaures ccelodontes D. & B. 



Leiodactyles. 



Gen. Tachtdkomus Daud. 



Tachydromcs sEXLiNEAxrs D. & B. Five specimens. 



The ground color of four of these specimens above, is uniform brown, inter- 

 spersed with small black spots ; in the remaining one, green, the superior 

 lateral vitta bordered interiorly with black. During life, dark coppery brown ; 

 below white, like white lead. W. S. 



Habitat. Simoda, Japan, Island of Niplion, May, 1855. Common among 

 grass in lowlands. W. S. 



Tachydroiids japojticus D. & B. Three specimens. 



Erpet. Gren. tom. v. p. 161. 



Habitat. Ousima, Japan. Caught May, 1855, by Mr. Stimpson. 



Sci:>ciD.i;. 

 Plestiodon D. & B. 



There is, in the collection of Com. Rodgers, but one specimen of five-lined 

 Plestiodon, which, both by Prof. Schlegel and Dumeril & Bibron, have been 

 considered identical with the Plestiodon quinquelineatus of the U. S. 

 Prof. Schlegel states that he had before him two complete suites of the North 

 American and Japanese species, composed each of thirty individuals of all 

 ages, the one collected at Japan, by MM. de Siebold and Burger, the other by 

 Prof. Trout, upon the banks of the Tennessee river. The examination of this 

 large number of specimens proved to him that there existed not the slightest 

 difi'erence between these individuals, brought from points of the globe so distant 

 the one from the other, although situated under nearly the same parallel. 

 (Fauna Japonica, Reptilia, p. 99.) 



Dumeril & Bibron say, that having examined two of the Japanese speci- 

 mens, the North American species exists also in Japan. (Erpet. Gen. tom. v. 

 p. 710.) The most striking diiference that we observe in the single speci- 

 men before us, consists in the presence in the one from Japan, of a plate 

 above the anterior frenal, which is wanting in all the others ; this doubling 

 may be, and probably is, an accident, and an abnormal division of the anterior 

 frontal plate. There are, also, but twenty-four rows of scales in the Japanese 

 specimen. The coloration of the specimens from these different localities 

 is very much alike, except that the vertebral line does not bifurcate 

 upon the head in that from Japan. The fronto-nasals are not in contact, 

 but in some of the North American specimens this is the case, in others 

 not. We have always doubted, notwithstanding the high authority of 

 the authors quoted, the absolute identity of species so remote. Since 

 the above was written, another specimen has been placed in our hands, 

 in which there 'is no naso-frenal, only two frenals, an anterior and a poste- 

 rior, and there is a difference in the number of rows of scales, there being 

 twenty-seven in the Japanese, and thirty-two in the North American. In a 

 specimen from South Carolina, presented by Dr. Blanding to the Academy, 

 there are thirty-two rows : in one from the Loo-Choo Islands, by Dr. Joseph 



I860.] 




496 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



WilsoD, U. S. N., but twenty-four. The scales upon tlie back, in tlie Loo- 

 Choo specimen, are broader than those in the one from South Carolina. The 

 fronto-nasal and fronto-parietal much smaller in the Loo-Choo specimen, the 

 former less than half the size ; in the latter the frenal is more high and 

 narrow : in the one from South Carolina, there is a naso-frenal, a plate 

 which does not exist in the specimen from Loo-choo. In the large North 

 American specimens in the Green collection, we count twenty-nine and thirty 

 rows of scales : both these have a naso-frenal in front of the anterior frenal. 

 In a specimen from Arkansas, presented by Mr. Pitcher, we find twenty-nine 

 rows of scales, and no naso-ifrenal, a near approach to the Japan ; but the 

 scales iipon the back are evidently less broad. In another specimen from 

 South Carolina, presented by Prof. Leidy, we find thirty-two rows, with a 

 naso-frenal : scales of the back high. In another from South Carolina, pre- 

 sented by Mr. Reid, we find twenty-nine and thirty rows. In the specimen 

 from Japan, which is young, the ground color between the stripes is jet 

 black ; in those from Loo-Choo, which are more mature, the color above is 

 olive, with a dark colored lateral band on each side, between the lateral 

 stripe ; the most constant difference determined by the above comparisons, 

 therefore, would appear to be the less number of rows of scales in the 

 Japanese, the greater breadth of the dorsal rows, and the absence of the naso- 

 frenal plate. We have had, however, but three Asiatic specimens for observa- 

 tion, but would suggest whether they be not really distinct species from the 

 North American, although resembling each other so much in color ; and in case 

 future observation should decide this to be the case, would propose for the 

 Japanese species the nime Plestiodos latiscctatus. 



Gen. Ltgosaurus nob. 



Char. Nostril in a single plate ; neither supero-nasal, nor naso-frenal ; two 

 fronto-nasals ; an interparieto-fronto parietal ; two parietals : a first and second 

 frenal ; two freno-orbitars ; six superior labials ; body covered with hexagonal 

 scales, tricarinate upon the back; fingers and toes 5 — 5; the two inner and 

 outer ones quite short; tail cyclo-tetragonal at base, longer than head, neck 

 and body. 



LvGOSAURCa PELLOPLECKCS UOb. 



Spec. char. Light brown above, with four longitudinal rows of minute black 

 spots, extending a considerable distance upon the tail ; a lateral dark-colored 

 band on each side, commencing behind the eye and extending the whole length 

 of the back and body, being lost upon the tail; abdomen and under part of 

 extremities white ; the scales upon the under part of the tail spotted with 

 black. Total length 3 inches, 7 lines; tail 2 inches. 



Description. The size of this delicate-looking little Lepidosaurian ig about 

 the same as that of Lygosoma 1 a t e r a 1 e ; the head is small, the snout rather 

 pointed, the supra-orbitar regions somewhat prominent; the internasal is 

 broader than long: the fronto-nasal single, truncate posteriorly, presenting 

 three facets in front, the middle one broad ; frontal truncate anteriorly, the 

 edges bevelled, angular posteriorly ; the fronto-parietals and parietals present 

 nothing remarkable, but the interparietal, instead of being placed exclusively 

 between the parietals, lies also and for the greater part of its extent between 

 the fronto-parietals ; it is narrow in front, broad behind ; the inferior eyelid is 

 protected by two rows of scales, the inferior row quite large, beneath which, 

 and above the supero-labials, there are two interrupted rows of triano^ular 

 scales ; four supra-orbitar scales ; auricular openings pyriform in shape, with 

 no scales upon their borders ; scales hexagonal, those upon the abdomen and 

 sides smooth, those upon the back tricarinate ; 24 rows of scales, six in front 

 of the arms and of nearly equal size ; extremities slender, each provided with 



[Oct. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 497 



a nail, the third finger the longest, the first very short, almost rudimentary, 

 the second and fifth of nearh' equal length ; the first two quite short, the fourth 

 the longest; fingers and toes not denticulated upon the edges, the inferior surface 

 covered with transverse scales Color and dimensions as above. 



Habitat. Ousima, Japan. Two spacimeus, — one from Loo-Choo. 



Gen. remarks. Although the two animals resemble each other so much 

 in their general form, the arrangement of the plates upon the head is quite 

 diflferent. In Lygosoma late rale the scales are quite smooth. 



OPHIDTA. 



Fam. TyphlopiDvE. 



Ophthalmidium D. & B. 



Char. A narrow rostral, bent upon the snout; a supra-ocular ; a pair of 

 preoculars ; a pair of nasals ; a pair of oculars, with the eye distinct at the 

 upper part ; a pair of fronto-nasals : a pair of post-oculars ; an anterior frontal ; 

 a frontal; a pair of parietals ; an interparietal; eyes latero-superior ; body 

 covered with smooth hexagonal scales ; tail very short. 



Ophthaluidium tenue nob. 



Spec. char. Color uniformly brotvn above, lighter below ; 10 rowsof subcaudal 

 scales; 282 horizontal rows, 20 longitudinal rows, 4 pair of supralabi.ils ; 

 nostrils very sm.tU. iu the su.ure beuveen the nasal and fronto-nasal plates, 

 beneath the extremity of the snout. 



Dimensions. Length of tail Ik lines; of head and body 5 inches. Total 

 length 5 inches, h line. 



Habitat. Hong-Kong, China. Three specimens. 



Fam. Aglyphodontes D. & B. 



Gen. Elaphis Aldrovandi. 



Char. Nostrils between two plates ; a frenal ; two antoculars, the inferior 

 small, intercalated between the third and fourth supra-labials ; the one resting 

 on the fourth and fifth ; two internasals, smaller than the prefrontals : a frontal 

 longer than broad; three temporals on each side : sccUes elongated, lanceolate, 

 weakly keeled ; tail of moderate length, scutes bifid. 



Elaphis bilineatus nob. 



Spec. char. Nine rows of scales, the dorsal ones carinate ; color black, as 

 in Coryphodon co n s tr ic tor, but with two white lines on each side of the 

 neck, extending some distance along the body. Total length 3 feet, 4 inches. 



Description. This species, in its general conformation, has a marked resem- 

 blance to Coryphodon constrictor (Bascanion B. & G.), the pupil is round, 

 the supraciliaries projecting very slightly, the superior antocular much ex- 

 cavated ; of the supralabials the sixth and seventh are the largest ; the frenal 

 is not elongated, but rhomboidal, with its posterior and inferior angle prolonged ; 

 of the two anterior temporal plates the superior is the more narrow and smaller ; 

 the frontal plate is pentangular, less excavated laterally than in Coryphodon 

 constrictor; the three inferior rows on each side are carinated, the carinas 

 not extending the whole length of the scale ; the proeanal scute is bifid ; 

 abdomen angular; posterior teeth longer than the anterior. Ab. scut. 193 ; 

 subcaud. 1 bifid pateanal ; 76 subcaud. 



Habitat. Volcano Bay. Jesso. One specimen, caught by Dr. Morrow, May 

 30tb, 1854. 



Gen. Leptophidium nob. 



Char. A rostral, two internasals much smaller than the prefrontals ; frontal 

 longer than broad, presenting an acute angle posteriorly; occipitals large; 



I860.] 




498 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



nostril between two plates, a frenal ; two antoculars, and two postocular plates ; 

 eye margined inferiorly by the fourth and fifth supralabials ; scales quadrangular 

 smooth ; a double prseanal plate ; tail short with bifid scutes : eye rather large, 

 pupil ovoid. 



Leptophidium D0E.SALE nob. 



Spec char. Nineteen rows of smooth scales ; eight superior labials ; the fifth 

 in contact with the inferior postocular; an oblique brownish band behind the 

 eye ; another on each side of the head, passing across the temples ; inferior 

 and superior labials, rostral and internasals with dark-colored maculations ; 

 a transverse bar across the prefrontals posteriorly ; two longitudinal brownish 

 stripes upon the neck, commencing at the occipitals ; a series ot transverse 

 light brown fasciaj upon the anterior third of the dorsum, about 12 in number, 

 bordered with light yellow ; fawn color above, white below, with a tinge of 

 green. Ab. scut. 100; 1 bifid praeanal ; 85 subcaud. 



Dimensions. Length of head 6 lines ; greatest breadth 3 ; length of body 8J 

 inches; of tail 2 inches, 3 lines. Total length II inches. 3 lines. 



Habitat. Hakodadi, Japan. One specimen, taken on a hill -side, near 

 Hakodadi, Island of Jesso, June, 1855, by W. Stimpson. 



Lepidocephalus nob. 



Gen. char. Head rather short and broad behind triangular ; temples 

 swollen ; two internasals, two prefrontals, larger than ihe internasals ; a frontal, 

 as in Coronella ; nostril between two plates ; a narrow frenal ; a preocular ; two 

 postoculars ; the eye resting on the fourth and fifth supralabials, four or five 

 lines from the extremity of the snout ; posterior superior maxillary teeth much 

 longer than the others; scales upon the back quadrangular, with rounded 

 posterior margins, semicarinate ; tail of moderate length, with bifid scutes. 



Lepidoceph.\lus fasciatus nob. 



Sjyec. char. Eight supralabials; 17 rows of scales, the four inferior rows 

 smooth ; a series of thirty-five dark-colored bands upon the body ; nine upon 

 the tail ; tip of tail black ; 216 ab. scut.: a single prsanal ; 65 subcaud. ; 

 length 3 feet. 



Description. General appearance that of Coronella : the pupil is round: 

 there are seven temporal plates : of the superior labials the posterior 

 and superior angle of the third is prolonged so as to touch the eye 

 in front, occupying the position of an inferior preocular : the sixth and 

 seventh supralabials are the largest; the neck anteriorly is of nearly the same 

 thickness as the head; the body moderately robust, the abdomen angular ; the 

 tail rather slender, not pointed at the tip ; throat and abdomen white ; a series 

 of black longitudinal blotches upon the under surface of the tail at its middle : 

 superior labials margined with black; a black quadrangular blotch behind the 

 eye: upper part of head black, intermingled with yellow spots; a narrow 

 transverse band upon the neck with an anterior prolongation ; the interspaces 

 between the black bands upon the back white or yellowish. 



Dimensions. Length of head 1 inch; greatest breadth TJ lines; length of 

 body 2 feet, TJ inches. 



Habitat. Japan and Loo-Choo. Two specimens from each locality. Those 

 from Loo-Choo captured by Mr. Heine. 



Gen. Peoterodox nob. 



Char. The anterior teeth longer than the posterior, with a marked interval 

 between the first, second, third and fourth of the upper jaw ; two internasals : 

 two prefrontals ; a frontal, as in Coronella : a frenal ; one antocular ; two 

 postoculars: four temporals; the superior of the two anterior quite small and 



[Oct. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 499 



narrow-pointed behind ; eye resting on the fourth and fifth supralabial ; scales 

 quadrangular; those of the back slightly carinate ; praeanal scute bifid; tail 

 rather short, with bifid scutes. 



Proterodon tessellatus nob. 



Spec. char. Twenty-one rows of scales ; three or four rows on each side 

 smooth ; the others, with a slight carina, extending half-way along the middle ; 

 olive-colored above ; throat yellow, black spotted ; abdomen orange, tesselated 

 with black : length 3 feet. 



Description. The head is rather long, flattened behind, pupil round, the 

 supraciliary not projecting over the eye ; the frenal is quite small ; of the two 

 postoculars the superior is the larger ; the temporal plate immediately behind 

 them is remarkable for its form; it is quite narrow and somewhat lanceolate 

 in shape ; of the two posterior temporals the upper is much longer than the 

 inferior; there are eight supralabials, though this is somewhat doubtful from 

 the diseased condition of the three anterior ones, the seventh being the 

 largest; the scales posterior to the occipitals (about a dozen rows) are quite 

 smooth; the neck is narrower than the head; the body moderately stout: 

 the tail rounded above and upon the sides, flattened beneath, tapering to a 

 point. Ab. scut. 211; subcaud. 73; a double praeanal plate. 



Amphiesma tigrindm D. & B., Erp. Gen. t. vii. p. 732. 



Tropidonotus tigrinus Schlegel, Fauna Japonica, p. 86. Two specimens caught 

 at Niphon, Japan, May, 1855, by Mr. Stimpson. Ab. scut. 162 ; 1 bifid praeanal ; 

 subcaud. 175. 



Gen. remarks. This is evidently the Tropidonotus tigrinus of Prof. 

 Schlegel, whose remarks in regard to the differences between the one under 

 consideration and the Tropidonotus n a t r i x of European authors, are perfectly 

 correct. Trop. tigrinus has a great resemblance to the Trop. h y d r u s of 

 Fitzinger, of which we have eight specimens in the Bonap. Coll., the markings 

 and the number of rows of scales are the same in both; but the shape of the 

 head is very different. That of t i g r i n u s is broad, and the snout is rounded, 

 but in h y d r u s it is more acute. The two serpents in fact belong to diiferent 

 genera. 



BATRACHIANS. 



RANID.E. 



Rana RueosA Schlegel. Fauna Japonica, p. 160, tab. 3, fig. 3 and 4, D. & B., 

 Erpet. Generale, tom. viii. p. 368. 



Four specimens of small size, presenting the conical pustulations upon the 

 longitudinal elevations upon the back described by Dumeril k Bibron, three 

 other specimens from Ousima, and two from Simoda, of the size of Rana 

 h a 1 e c i n a , with vocal vesicles very distinct. The specimens from Ousima, 

 and two larger ones from Simoda, are perfectly white beneath. Taken in 

 in the Paddy fields at the island of Ousima, May, 1855, W. S. Cream 

 colored and greenish mottled. The large specimens from Simoda, Island 

 of Niphon, were found in the Paddy fields back of the town, May, 1855. 

 This species has bladders, one on each side of the neck behind the jaws, which 

 swell in globes one-half an inch in diameter; and when the croaking noise is 

 made, they as rapidly fall flat against the neck. Above dark greyish, with 

 darker brown spots on the hinder legs; sides yellowish brown ; belly white; 

 fore legs inclining to flesh color; back sometimes streaked with black, as in 

 our Pickerel frog. Other specimens much smaller, marked 13 in the catalogue, 

 were found along the shores of mountain streams, at Simoda, Japan, May, 

 1855. Above very dark brown, irregularly and distantly punctate with black. 

 Below pale greyish, mottled with white. Another specimen of r u g o s a by 

 Dr. Morrow from Simoda. 



1S60.] 




500 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Rana marmorata nob. 



Two speqimens of a frog, the coloration of which, though the animal 13 not 

 so large, corresponds with tbe figure of Rana esculenta, as given in the 

 Fauna Japonica. It differs, however, very considerably from the numerous 

 specimens of Rana esculenta in the Bonap. collection of the Academy. 

 The spots upon the back are not so regular and well defined as in esculen- 

 ta, and there exist on each side of the ventral line four or five longitudinal 

 elevations, resembling somewhat those of r u g o s a. The sides are marbled 

 with black, and there is a black band extending from the front of the eye to 

 the tip of the snout ; extremities black spotted ; thighs posteriorly marbled 

 with black ; under parts white. Length 1 inch 9 lines ; of anterior extremi- 

 ties 1 inch ; of posterior 2 laches, 10 lines. 



Habitat. Simoda. Five specimens obtained by Dr. Morrow. 



A small specimen of a Rana not figured in Schlegel, perhaps the young of a 

 large species is. 



Rana nigbomaculata ilob. 



Spec. char. Vomerine teeth in two patches between the internal nares ; olive 

 colored, with numerous black spots upon the back, of considerable size, but 

 varying in this respect ; a black band extending from the eye to the snout on 

 each side ; legs and tarsi banded with black, thighs mottled posteriorly with 

 blotches of the same color; -under parts white ; web of the toes extending as 

 far as the base of the antepenultimate phalanx, except in the third, in which it 

 reaches to the base of the proximal extremity of the third phalanx. 



Dimensions. Length of head and body 1 inch ; of anterior extremities i an 

 inch ; of posterior \\ inches. 



Habitat. Japan. One specimen discovered by Dr. Morrow. 



In the collection of reptiles from Japan, by Dr. Morrow, is one specimen of 

 a Rana figured in Schlegel, considered by Prof. S. as identical with the 

 Rana temporaria of Europe. This species, however, has even a 

 stronger resemblance to the Rana sylvatica of the United States, with 

 which it appears to be identical, and from which, indeed, I do not find 

 any marked points of difference. Tbe large blotch behind the ear, and the 

 longitudinal black mark upoa the arm exist, in all these specimens, and the 

 longitudinal ridge on each side of the body. Length of head and body 1 inch 

 11 lines ; of thigh 1 inch 2 lines ; of leg 1 inch 2 lines ; of tarsus 7 lines ; of 

 foot to extremity of longest toe 1 inch ; of arm 5 lines : of forearm 5 lines ; of 

 hand to extremity of longest finger 5 lines. Found in the Paddy fields back of 

 Simoda, Island of Niphon, Japan, May, 1855. This species has no cheek blad- 

 der. (Notes of Mr. Stimpson.) 



HYLID.E. 



Hyla viridis ? Laurenti. 



Syn. Hyla arborea Schlegel, Fauna Japonica, p. 112, pi. 3, fig. 526. 



Habitat. Simoda, Japan ; found in the mud in the Paddy fields back of 

 Simoda, Island of Niphon, May, 1855. The color during life, according to Mr. 

 Stimpson, is bright light green above. A golden band along each side of the 

 head, including the eye ; sides minutely sprinkled with copper color ; belly 

 white; puffs at the throat. Five specimens. 



Gen. remarks. We can find no marked difference of structure between this 

 animal and the Hyla viridis of Laurenti, but no mention is made in the 

 description of the former of the golden band along each side of the head. 



POLYPEDATES VIRIDIS nob. 



Char. Head large; snout truncate; eyes large; nostrils small, two lines 



[Oct. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 501 



apart ; canthus rostralis slightly excavated ; the ridge betweeu the snout and 

 the eye separating this region from the upper part of the head, presenting a 

 slight convexity inward : tongue cordiform, notched posteriorly, eustachian 

 foramina more oval in shape than the posterior nares ; vomerine teeth iu 

 two transverse rows, on a line with the anterior margins of the posterior 

 nares, inclining backward toward each other, separated by an interval of 

 more than half a line; skin smooth above, of a ccerulean color in alcohol; 

 the posterior part of thighs, legs and tarsi whitish ; under parts white, the 

 abdomen very much granulated ; fingers and toes semipalmate ; a series of 

 dark colored spots upon the flanks. 



Dimensions. — Length of head and body 1 inch 4 lines ; breadth of head 6i 

 lines ; of arm 4 lines ; of forearm 3| lines ; of hand to extremity of longest 

 finger 5 lines; of thigh 8 lines ; of leg 8 lines; of foot to extremity of longest 

 toe 6 lines. 



Habitat. Loo-Choo. Taken at Loo-Choo, December, 1854, by Mr. Wright. 

 Color during life pale green above, below pale red ; no dark line of separation 

 between these colors. (Notes of Mr. Stimpson.) 



Gen. remarks. This species evidently belongs to the same genus as Poly- 

 pedates megacephalu s, found at Hong Kong, and remarkable for the two 

 patches of rugosities upon the vertex; the animal, however, is quite different 

 from the Polypedates rugosus of Ceylon and the Phillipines. 



POLYPEDATES BdRGERII D. & B. 



Erpet. Generale, torn. viii. p. 521. 



Syn. Hyla Burgerii Schlegel, Fauna Japonica, p. 113, pi. 3, fig. 728. Ousima, 

 Japan. A small specimen from the Loo-Choo islands. 



IxALDS Tsch. 



IxALUs Japonicus nob. 



Char. Head of moderate size; nostrils small, lateral, \ line apart; body 

 rather slender, much more so than in Hyla versicolor; posterior extremi- 

 ties quite long, webs reaching to the antepenultimate phalanx ; color ash grey 

 above, in some specimens very pale ; a transverse blotch upon the head, with 

 a posterior triangular prolongation ; several other blotches upon the back, one 

 presenting the form of the two halves of the letter X, separated by a hori- 

 zontal line. In one of the specimens the transverse bar is wanting ; 

 a brownish spot in front of the shoulder; a narrow oblique band behind 

 the tympanum; lower lip spotted with black; upper lip also, but the spots 

 are broader and more oblique ; an oblique fold above the tympanum, 

 commencing behind the eye ; tympanum distinct, of a brownish color : upper 

 part of head and anterior part of body presenting a number of tubercles ; can- 

 thus rostralis concave ; ridge between the eye and the nostril presenting a 

 convexity inward ; snout rounded, and somewhat acute; abdomen and under 

 part of thighs posteriorly granulated. 



Habitat. Japan. 



Gen. remarks. This species corresponds very nearly with the description of 

 Ixalus s e m i fa s c i a t u s D. & B., in tom. viii. p. 523 of the Erpetologie 

 Generale. It is there mentioned, however, that the palmation of the toes does 

 not extend beyond one-half of their length. In the Japan specimens it would 

 appear to be larger. In Schlegel's figure, which represents a much smaller 

 animal, there are no webs to the toes. Ixalus semifasciatus is an inhabi- 

 tant of Java. Future observation must determine whether the two animals be 

 identical or not. 



China. 

 There are in the collection no Chelonian3 from China, and but three Saurians, 



I860.] 




502 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



viz., a Geckotlan, an Agamian, and a Scink. Except a few serpents, all the 

 other specimens are Batrachians, which appear to abound in that region of the 

 globe. 



SA URIA. 



Geckotid.*:. 



Hemidactylcs Guv. 



Sect. Dactyloteles D. & B. 



Subdiv. A. — Dactyloteles fissipedes D. & B. 



Eemidaotylus pumilus nob. 



Char. Supraorbitar regions not remarkably prominent ; frontal region 

 covered with granulations, larger than those upon the vertex and occiput ; 

 granulations upon body uniform or nearly so ; ventral plate with fine facets, a 

 little broader than long ; in contact with the ventral are two plates, the first 

 in contact with the first supralabial, the second with the second, the anterior 

 larger than the posterior, and pentangular in shape ; eleven supralabials ; 

 eight inferior labials ; no pores in front of arms or along the thighs : color 

 greyish : thighs with yellow above, the latter color predominating upon the 

 head, with numerous dark colored transverse marmorations upon the back ; 

 under parts white. 



Dimensions. Length of head 6 lines ; breadth 3 J lines ; length of neck and 

 body IJ inches: of tail 1 inch 4 J lines. 



Ilahitat. Hong Kong. One specimen, 



Lezards Iguaniess ou Sauriens Eunotes D. & B. 



Gen. Calotes Kaup. 



Calotes yeksicolob D. & B. Two specimens. Cum-Sing-Moon, China. Dr. 

 Morrow. 



Lezards Scujcoidiens ou Sauriens Lepidosaures. 



Saurophthalmes D. & B. 



Eumeces quadriyirgatus nob. 



Spec. char. Supra -nasals but little extended at their external margin; 

 neither slender nor much developed ; internasal remarkable for its great 

 breadth compared with its length, measuring Ij lines transversely, and about 

 -^ a line longitudinally ; fronto-nasals in contact, their internal margins trun- 

 cate ; frontal hexagonal ; the anterior and posterior angles obtuse, somewhat 

 broader in front than behind ; two frouto-parietals in contact, each with five 

 distinct facets : interparietal short and broad ; seven superior labials ; a freno- 

 nasal, a first and second frenal, the second much larger than the first ; two 

 freno-orbitar plates, each of moderate size ; twenty rows of small, hexagonal 

 scales ; body slender ; tail cyclo-tetragonal at base, compressed toward the 

 tip ; color jet black above, with four longitudinal, narrow, white or yellow 

 colored vittffi, broader and bluish upon the tail; the two middle ones com- 

 mence each at the snout, pass over the eye, and extend on each side of the neck 

 and back, and are lost upon the middle third of the tail, at its extremity ; the 

 inferior one commences at the armpit and terminates at the groin ; under parts 

 white, with a tinge of blue upon the abdomen. 



Dimensions. Length of head 6 lines ; greatest breadth 4 lines ; length of 

 neck and body 1 inch 11 lines; of tail 3 inches 5i lines ; of anterior extremi- 

 ties 8| lines: of posterior extremities 11 lines. Total length 5 inches, 10 

 lines. 



Habitat. Hong Kong Island, China. Near the summit of the mountain. 

 Caught May 4th, 1854, by Mr. "Wright. 



[Oct. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 503 



OPHIDIA. 



Aglyphodontes. 



Herpetodryas Boie. 



Herpetodrtas chloris nob. 



Spec. char. Internasals very much smaller than prefrontals, rostral plate 

 pentagonal, the other plates upon the head presenting nothing remarkable ; 

 eight superior labials, the ej-e resting on the fourth and fifth ; anterior geneials 

 much longer and broader than the posterior ; fifteen rows of smooth scales 

 upon the middle of the body ; tail rather long ; a double row of bifid prajanal 

 scutes ; 161 ab. scut, 86 subcaud. Color uniform green above, white below. 



Dimensions Length of head 8 lines : greatest breadth 4 lines ; length of 

 body 1 foot 7 inches; of tail 8 inches 5 lines. 



Habitat. Hong Kong Island. Caught May, 1854, by Mr. Brooke. 



Leptophis Bell. 

 Leptophis trifrenatus nob. 



Spec. char. Body very long and somewhat slender; seventeen rows near 

 the middle, the three median ones carinated; color olive above, baired with 

 black posteriorly; under parts yellow, black spotted upon throat ; posterior 

 margin of scale at posterior part of body margined with black; ab. scut. 187, 

 subcaud. 110. Total length 5 feet. (Fr.) 



Description. The plates upon the upper part of the head present nothing 

 remarkable ; the nostril is deeply excavated between the i)lates ; there are'three 

 freuals, the one immediately behind the post-nasal five-sided, nearly quadran- 

 gular in shape, the two behind it smaller and resembling it ; there are two post- 

 oculars, and eight superior labials, the eye resting on the fourth and fifth ; the 

 scales upon the sides of the body are smooth and quadrangular, those upon the 

 middle of the back carinated. Coloration : The general tinge above is olive, 

 the posterior part of the body being barred irregularly with black ; tail olive 

 colored above, barred transversely at its root with black, and maculated with 

 black toward its posterior extremities; posterior border of the labial plates 

 margined with black ; middle portion of abdomen maculated with black; pos- 

 terior part distinctly margined to a greater or less extent with black posterior- 

 ly ; under part of tail yellow ; the posterior margin of scutes black. 



Dimensions. Length of head H inches; greatest breadth 11 lines; length of 

 body 3 feet 7f inches ; of tail 1 foot 2 J inches. 



Habitat. Hong Kong, China. Caught on the island of that name, April, 

 1854, by Lieut. Brooke. 



Amphiesma D. & B. 



Amphiesma stolatum. One specimen caught on a hill at Whampoa, China, 

 July, 1851. 



Amphiesma flavipdnctatum nob. 



Char. Head small, eyes somewhat prominent, internasals small and trian- 

 gular, prefrontals of moderate size, pentagonal; three or four post-oculars; 

 eight supralabials, the eye resting on the third and fourth ; a small plate 

 intercalated between the second and third ; seventeen rows of lanceolate scales, 

 near the middle of the body, the two inferior rows smooth. Color dusky yellow, 

 with numerous yellow spots along the margin of the scales, a black undulating 

 band running transversely behind the occiput, and two oblique ones upon the 

 ijide of the head, the one commencing at the inferior margin of the eye, passing 

 over the inferior post-ocular, and extending between the fifth and sixth supra 

 labial to the inferior margin of the jaw ; another commencing behind the post- 

 orbitar, and extending obliquely across the temples, and terminating at the 



I860.] 




504 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



inferior and posterior margin of the seventh supralabial plate ; under parts 

 yellow, the posterior margin of each scute bordered with black — 128 ab. scut. 

 1 bifid praenal ; 78 urostega. 



Dimensions. Length of head 9 lines ; greatest breadth 5J ; length of body 1 

 foot 2|- inches : of tail 6 inches, 8 lines. Total length 1 foot, 9 inches, 8 lines. 



Habitat. Island of Hong Kong, May, ] So-l, by Mr. Brooke. The specimen of 

 the expedition having been somewhat injured, the above description was taken 

 from a larger specimen in the collection of the Academy, which is stated to have 

 been captured in Canton River. 



Opisthogltphes D. & B. 



Plattrhiniens. 



HOMALOPSIS Kuhl. 



?HoMALOPSiSBUccATUS Fitzinger. D. & B., torn, vii., p. 968. One specimen, 

 caught on the Island of Hong Kong, May, 1854, by Mr. Brooke. 



Proteroglyphes. 



Naja haji. One specimen, caught among stones on the shore Of Hong Kong 

 Harbor. May, 1854. 



B ATRAC HI A. 



RANID^. 

 Rana tigrina Daud. 

 Syn. Rana rugulosa Weig., Nov. Act., tom. xvii., p. 258, tab. 21, fig. 2. 



Rana tigrina Daud. Hist. Nat. des Grenouilles des Rainettes et des Cra- 



pauds, p. 864, pi. xx. 

 Rana Innnocharis Bole., MS. 

 Rana Cancrivora D. 



Rana vittigera Weig., Nov. Act., vol. xviii , tab. 21, fig, 1. 

 Rana mugiens Daud., pi. xvii. 



Rana brama Lesson, Belanger, Voy. aux Indes Orientales, pi. vi. 

 Spec. char. General appearance very much like that of Rana rug o sa, Schlegel, 

 but it wants the vocal vesicles, and the longitudinal folds on either side of the 

 back; head large, rather narrow in front; an oblique fold extending from the 

 eye to the shoulder, with small vomerine teeth in two large patches situated very 

 obliquely; tongue long, bitid posteriorly ; tympanum very distinct ; extremities 

 robust; a longitudinal glandular band running across the frenal region, which 

 is excavated, and passing under the eye ; an oblique fold extending from 

 the eye to near the shoulder ; color dark brown above, dark spotted, with 

 numerous elevated longitudinal ridges upon the back, placed irregularly ; upper 

 jaw spotted with black; thighs marbled posteriorly with black, upon a yellow 

 ground; legs tarsi, and under part of feet banded with black ; skin not smooth 

 bat warty; the trails on the posterior part of the body largely developed; 

 under parts yellow, the chin slightly marbled with black. 



Dimensions. Length of head 1 inch 4 lines ; breadth 1 inch three lines : 

 length of head and body 3 inches ; length of arm 6 lines ; of forearm 6; of hand 

 to extremitj' of longest finger 7 lines ; of thigh 1 inch 4 lines; of leg 1 inch 4}- 

 lines, of feet to extremity of longest toe 1 inch 4^ lines, * 



Habitat. Hong Kong ; bought in the market of that place, Sept., 1854, by 

 Wm. Stimpson. 



Rana trivittata nob. 

 Spec. char. Head triangular, snout rather acute, palatine teeth but slightly 

 developed, in two converging rows, their posterior extremities wide apart ; 

 tongue pyriform, deeply notched behind ; body and extremities slender; color 

 brownish, dark spotted, with three longitudinal white lines extending the whole 

 length of the head and body commencing at the snout, the two exterior passing 



[Oct. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 505 



over, the eye ; a truncate band reacbiag from the snout to the eye ; extremities 

 banded and brown spotted ; tvro brownish bars on each side of the thighs poste- 

 riorly ; under parts white. 



Dimensions. Length of head 5 lines ; greatest breadth 4 ; length of head and 

 body II lines; length of anterior extremities 7 lines; of posterior 1 inch 10 

 lines. 



ITabitat. Hong Kong, China. 



Rana nebulosa nob. 



Spec. char. Quite small, head rather broad posteriorly, extremities slender, 

 palatine teeth in two bunches between the internal nares ; tongue pyriform 

 tree at the sides, and very much so posteriorly, notched behind ; tympanum 

 distinct; color brown above, skin smooth ; chin, throat and abdomen white or 

 grayish; under part of extremities flesh colored. 



Dimensions. Length of head 4 lines ; greatest breadth 4 ; length of head and 

 body 10 lines ; of anterior extremities 6 lines; of posterior 1 inch 1 line. 



Habitat. Hong Kong, China. 



Gen. remarks. The young no doubt of a larger animal. 



Rana gracilis Weig., Nova. Acta, vol. xvii., p. 257. 



Spec. char. Snout somewhat acute, supraciliary regions prominent : nostrils 

 wide apart; skin of the back thrown into longitudinal rugose folds : body 

 slender; head long and rather broad posteriorly, posterior extremities stout: 

 color above brownish, dark spotted ; with transverse dark colored blotches upon 

 the back; a narrow longitudinal white line extending from the snout to the 

 posterior extremity of the body, absent in some specimens; webs of the hinder 

 extremities reaching to the base of the penultimate phalanx, except of the 4th, 

 where it reaches the base of the antepenultimate ; thighs and legs spotted and 

 banded with brown ; a series of longitudinal dark colored bars, broader below 

 the hips ; under parts white. 



Dimensions. Length of head 7 lines ; greatest breadth 5 ; length of head and 

 body 1 inch 2 lines ; length of anterior extremities 8 lines : of posterior 1 inch 

 11 lines. 



Habitat. China, caught at Whampoa, June 1854, by Mr. Stimpson. 



Gen. remarks. According to Weigmann, this small species is found on the 

 island of Lucon as well as in China. They are used abundantly as an article of 

 food in both places, and captured by thousands, especially for the market of 

 Macao. 



Rana mcltistriata nob. 



Spec. char. Color greyish above, with transverse angular bars of a darker 

 color ; upper and lower jaw dark-spotted ; abdomen white ; length 1 inch 3 lines. 



Description. Head long, eyes not prominent, tympanum of moderate size, 

 tongue obcordate, hollowed posteriorly ; palatine teeth en chevron^ between the 

 interior nares; anterior extremities slender, posterior rather stout; color 

 greyish above, with transverse angular bars of a darker color upon the head 

 and body, one passing between the eyes, posteriorly prolonged en triangle; 

 thighs round and mottled with grey and while ; legs barred posteriorly with 

 black ; arms and forearms barred with black ; upper lip barred with dark 

 bro^^n ; lower, brown spotted, the interior margin rounded ; chin mottled with 

 brown ; abdomen white, under parts of extremities plush color. 



Dimensions. Length of head 6 lines ; greatest breadth 5 ; length of head 

 and body 1 inch, 2^- lines ; of anterior extremities 8 lines ; of posterior, 1 inch, 

 9 lines ; of thigh 6 lines ; of leg 6 ; of tarsus 3. 



Habitat. Hong-Kong, China. Two specimens. 



OxYGLossua Tschudi. 

 Oxydozyga Kuhl, MS. Rhomhogloama D. & B., MS. 

 I860.] 




506 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Char. Head triangular, tongue oval, attached in front, free on the greater 

 part of its extent posteriorly ; body short and thick, rugose above ; eyelids 

 warty, anterior extremities of moderate thickness, posterior rather stout, 

 fingers slightly webbed at their base, four fingers, five toes, the second finger 

 much the longer, the two outer ones of nearly equal length : the w«6 of the toes 

 extending to the base of the terminal phalanx. 



OxYGLOsscs LIMA Tschudi. 



Syn. Oxydozijga braccata Kuhl, MS. 



Bombinator lima Mus. Lugd. et Francf. 



Oxygossus lima Tschudi. Classif. der Batrachier. (Mem. Acad. Neuch. 

 torn. i. p. 85.) 

 Spec. char. Brownish above, with a tinge of yellow below ; a brown band 

 bordered with white upon the posterior of the thighs. 



Dimensions. Length of head 7 lines ; greatest breadth 6 ; length of head 

 and body 1 inch 2 lines ; length of anterior exterior toes 6 lines ; of posterior, 

 1 inch 7 lines : of thigh 6 lines ; of leg 6 ; of tarsus 3 ; of foot to extremity of 

 longest toe 7 lines. 

 Habitat. Hong-Kong. 



Gen. remarks. In the webbing of the feet this animal resembles Dactylethra ; 

 but in the form and arrangement of the tongue, and in other respects, it is quite 

 different. Dumeril k Bibron have given Bengal and Java as the habitat. 



BUPONID^. 



BcFo Laur. 

 Bdfo grisecs nob. 



Char. Head short and broad, snout slightly truncate ; two rather long 

 elliptical paratoids, toes semipalmate, numerous subround tubercles, above upon 

 the back, color greyish above, white or light yellow beneath, with dark-colored 

 markings upon the abdomen. 



Dimensions. Length of head 4 lines : greatest breadth 4 ; length of body 9 

 lines; of arm 3 lines; of forearm 3 lines ; of hand and fingers 3 lines ; of thigh 

 4 lines : of leg 4 ; of tarsus 3 lines : of foot to extremity of longest toe 4 lines. 



Habitat. Hong-Kong, China, July, 1854. Caught by Mr. Stimpson in the 

 marshes of Whampoa. 



Engtstoma "Wagl. 



Engtstoma pulchrum nob. 



Char. Head small, triangular, snout acute; two tubercles upon the heel: 

 toes semipalmated: ground color of head and body above yellowish, presenting 

 several series of undulating bands, on the side of the latter resembling the 

 contortions of certain geological formations ; a black band across the head 

 between the eyes posteriorly ; a series of undulating bars in front of this : 

 snout dark-colored, two dark-colored bands meeting near the middle of the 

 body, and diverging; within them numerous dark-colored lines and oval spots 

 bordered with white ; similar oval spots between the thighs ; arms partly 

 yellowish : chin and throat mottled with black. I 



Dimensions. Length of head 3 lines : greatest breadth 3 ; length of head and 

 body 10 lines; length of anterior extremities 6 lines; of posterior 1 inch, 7 

 lines. 



Habitat. Hong-Kong, China. Common in the brackish water marshes 

 between Hong-Kong and Whampoa, China. June, 1854. It is colored on the 

 back with bluish, brown, white, yellowish, etc, concentrically arranged as in 

 Agate. 



[Oct. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 507 



Hylid^. 



POLYPEDATKS Wagl. 

 POLYPEDATES MEGACEPHALUS nob. 



Spec. char. Head large, two oblong patches of rugosities, upon the vertex ; 

 snout truncate, nostrils lateral, quite neai- the extremity of the snout ; skin 

 smooth, tongue cordiform, notched posteriorly, from behind and at the sides; 

 palatine teeth on a level with the anterior border of the posterior nares, 

 converging toward each other, separated from eacli other by an interval of half 

 a line ; body and extremities slender ; fingers very slightly webbed at base, 

 posterior webs extending to the base of the penultimate phalanx, except 

 on the fourth where it extends to the base of the antepenultimate ; color brown 

 with dark-colored blotches upon the back bordered with white ; sides marbled 

 with dark-brown ; lower parts light yellow. 



Dimensions. Length of head 8 lines ; greatest breadth 7 ; length of head and 

 body 1^ inches; length of anterior extremities 1 inch; of thigh 10 lines; of 

 leg 9 lines ; of tarsus 6 lines ; of foot to extremity of longest toe 7 lines. 



Habitat. Hong-Kong, China. Caught May, 1854. 



Java. 



OPHIDIA. 



Pythonid^ — Pythoniens holodontes D. ^- B. 



Div. B. — Nostrils vertical. 



Python molurus Gray. One specimen. 



Habitat. Java. Taken on the Island of Java, purchased and presented to 

 the expedition by Dr. Hamilton. Killed and skinned at Hong-Kong, (not in good 

 preservation). This specimen measured 16 feet in length. 



Cape of Good Hope. 



TESTUDINATA. 



Chersites D. ^ B. Testudines terrestres. 



Gen. HoMOPUs D. & B. 



In the collection of the expedition are eight specimens belonging to this 

 genus, characterized by the presence of four toes only to each extremity. 



HOMOPUS AREOLATUS D. & B. 



Erpet. Gen. torn. ii. p. 146, pi. 13, fig. 2 and 3. 



Testudo areolatus, Rell. Monog. Test. The central portion of the disk in these 

 specimens is from light chocolate brown to darker, in some almost black. The 

 sternum in some specimens is much darker than in others, 



SAURIA. 



Geckotid^. 



Sauriens ascalabotes D. ^ B. 



Phyllodactylus . 



Phyllodactylus porpheyrecs D. & B. 



Spec. char. Head of moderate size, triangular, mental plate of moderate 

 size, pentangular, eight inferior labials, nine superior, ground color above 

 yellow, marbled all over with brown ; under parts yellow. 



Dimensions. Length of head 5 lines ; greatest breadth 3^ ; length of body 



I860.] 




508 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



13 lines; of tail 1 inch, 6 lines ; of anterior extremities 6 lines : of posterior, 

 8 lines. 



Habitat. Cape of Good Hope. Found in the moist crevices of rocks : com- 

 mon near Simon's Town, Oct. 1853. 



Agamh)^. 



Agasia Daud. 



Agama atra Daud. 



Agama atra D. & B., torn. iv. p. 493. 



Agama atra Smith, Zoology of S. Africa, Appendix, p. 14. Four specimens. 

 Very common at the Cape of Good Hope. Found sunning themselves on 

 rocks ; motions slow. Collected Oct. 1855, by Lieut. Van Wyck. 



Agama AcuLEATA ? One specimen. D. & B. tom. iv. p. 499. Very common 

 at the Cape of Good Hope. Found sunning themselves on rocks ; motions 

 slow. Collected by Lieut. Van Wyck. 



ZoTSXr&TDM. 



ZoxcKPS GEiSEus D. & B,, tom. V. p. 350. Seven specimens. Taken under 

 stones in high ground. Very common at the Cape of Good Hope. Oct. 

 1853. W. S. 



AUTOSAUBIENS. 



EKEiiiAS KNOxii D. & B. torn. v. 299. Smith, Zoology S. Africa, pi. 43. One 

 specimen. Taken in arid places, near Cape Horn. Its motions are exceedingly 

 quick. Oct. 1853. W. S. 



ScKfCIDvE. 



Gekkhosaubus. 



Gerehosaueus sepefoemis D. B. Smith, Zoology of S. Africa, pi. 41. D. & 

 B., tom. V. p. 384. 



Scincus sepiformis Schneider. Hist. Amphib. fascic, ii. p. 191. 



Scincus sepiformis Merrem, Tent. Syst. Amphib. p. 70. One specimen, found 

 under a stone on a grassy plat near Simons Town, Cape of Good Hope. Oct. 

 1853. W. S. 



Gen. AcoxTiAS Cuvier, 



AcoNTiAS MELEAGEI3 D. & B. tom. v. p. 802, pi. 58. One specimen, found 

 under a stone, in a moist situation, near Simon's Town, Cape of Good Hope, 

 Oct. 1853. W. S. According to Dumeril & Bibrou, this species is very 

 common in the neighborhood of the Cape of Good Hope. 



OPHIDIANS. 



Protebogltphes . 



Serpens proteroglyphes ou Apistophides D. & B. 1st Sect. Conocercal pro- 

 teroglyphes. 



Gen. Naja. 



Naja haji. Aspis of the old authors. Urceus Wagler. 



Var. intermixta D. & B. One specimen. Smith, Zoology of Southern 

 Africa, Var. B. pi. xix. This specimen was captured at Constantia, Cape of 

 of Good Hope, Oct. 1853, byCapt. Ringgold. Another specimen, brown above, 

 with yellow spots upon the neck. The latter specimen measures 4 feet 5 

 nches in length ; tail 8^ inches. 



SOIiENOGLYPHES. 



Serpens solenoglyphes ou Thanatophides D. & B. 



[Oct. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 509 



Gen. Echidna Merrem. 



Echidna akietaxs Merrem, PnflFadder, D. & B. torn. v. p. 1425. One very 

 fine specimen. Taken near Cape Town, Cape of Good Hope, Oct. 1853. 

 Purcliased. 



Agltphodontes . 



CoRONELLA CANA D. & B. One' specimen. Taken near Simon's Town, Oct. 

 1858. Lieut. Van Wyck, 



HoMALOsoMA LPTRix D. & B., tom. vii. p. 110. One specimen. Found 

 under stones on the Mil's head, Simon's town, Cape of Good Hope. Oct. 

 1853. U. S. 



Epanodontiens. 

 Ontchocephalcs. 

 Ontchocephalus delalandii D. & B., tom. vi. p. 573. One specimen. 



B ATRAC HI A. 

 RANIDiE. 



Rana Grayii Smith, Zoology of South Africa. PI. 78, fig. 2. Common in 

 moist grounds. Five specimens. 



Madeira. 

 SAURIA. 

 Lezards Lacertiens ou Autosaures D. & B. 

 Ccelodontes Leiodactyles. 

 Gen. Lacerta. 

 Lacbbta dugesii Milne- Edwards, Am, Sc. Nat., tom. xvi. p. 84, tab. 6, fig. 2. 

 Lacerta maderensis Fitz., Neu. Class, der Kept. p. 51. 

 Lacerta dugesi D. & B., tom. v. p. 236. 



Habitat. Madeira. Seven specimens. Five adult, two young. In one of 

 the young specimens the black lateral bands are destitute of yellow spots. 

 Taken at the Island of Madeira, July, 1853. (C. Ames.) 



BATRACHTANS. 



RANIDiE. 



Rana viridis Roesel. Rana maratima Risso. Two specimens. 

 Habitat. Madeira. The spots upon the back do^ not appear to be so 

 numerous as in the European specimens of R. viridis. 



I860.] 35 




510 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



INDEX 



Page. 



Ablepharus Peronii 487 



nigropunctatus 487 



Acontias meleagris 508 



Aepidea rohusta 488 



Agama atra 508 



aculeata 508 



Aiaeiva, pulchr a 483 



Amphiesma stolatum 503 



tigrinum 503 



flavipunctatum 503 



Anaides lugubris 486 



Anolis cupreus 481 



longicauda 481 



refulgens 480 



Batrachoseps attenuatus 486 



Blepharactisis speciosa 484 



BoihTops Jlavoviridis 492 



Bufo griseus 506 



melanog aster 486 



Calotes versicolor 502 



Chelonia mydas 486 



Cnemidoplionis quadrilineatus 483 



decemlineatus 482 



ConiopTianes Jissidens 485 



Coronella cana 509 



Cynops subcristatus 494 



Cystignatbus melanonotus 485 



Diploderma polj/gonatum 490 



Draconura hivittata 482 



Dryopbis seneus 485 



Eciiidna arietans 509 



Elapbis bilineatus 497 



Elaps melanocephalus 485 



Engystoma /3u/cA/«7/i 506 



Eremias Knoxii 508 



Eumeces quadrivirgatus... 502 



Euprepis concolor 486 



Eurijpholis semicarinatits 493 



Grerrhosaurus sepiformis 508 



Hemidactylus praesiguis 480 



pumilus 502 



marmoratus 491 



inornatus 492 



Herpetodryas chloris 503 



Homalopsis buccatus 504 



Homalosoma lutrix 509 



Homopus areolatus 507 



Hyla cyanea 490, 494 



grisea 485 



arborea / 500 



Ixalus Japonicus 501 



Page. 



Lacerta Dugesii 509 



Lepidocephalus fasciatus ... - 498 



Leptophidium dor sale 498 



Leptopbis margaretiferus 484 



trifrenatus 503 



Lioninia vertniformis 484 



Lygosauriis pellopleura , 496 



Lygosoma vertebralle 487 



Guicbenoti 489 



taeniolatum 490 



Megalops maculatus 488 



Naja baji 504 



var. intermixta 508 



Onycbocepbalus De Lalandii 509 



Opbtbalmidium tenue 497 



Otocryptis 491 



Oxyglossus lima 506 



Pelamis bicolor 489 



Pbyllodactylus porpbyreus 507 



Platurus fasciatus 489, 493 



var 489 



Plestiodon marginatus 492 



latiscutatus 496 



Polypedates viridis 500 



Burgeri 500 



megacephalus 507 



Proterodon tessellatus 499 



Pytbon molurus 507 



Rana viridis 509 



rugosa 494, 499 



mannorata 500 



multistriata 505 



nigromaculata 500 



sylvatica 500 



tigrina 504 



trivittata 504 



nebulosa 505 



Grayi 509 



gracilis 505 



Sceloporus scalaris 482 



biseriatus 486 



Spbseriodactylus millepunctatus... 480 



Tacbydromus Japonicus 495 



sexlineatus 495 



Taricba torosus 486 



Varanus bivittatus 486 



Zonurus griseus 508 



Genera 64 



Species 94 



[Oct. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



511 



Nov. Qih. 



Mr. Lea, President, in the Chair. 



Forty members present. 



The following paper was presented for publication : 

 " Descriptions of new species of tho reptilian genera Hyperolius, 

 Liuperas and Tropidodipsas, by E. H. Cope." 

 And was referred to a Committee. 



Dr. Darrach presented tlie following list of plants, which appeared in flower 

 in the neighborhood of Philadelphia during the months of July, August, Sep- 

 tember and October, together with a list of ferus growing in this neighbor- 

 hood : 



1. July. 

 Raxuxculace^. 

 Clematis Virginiana. 

 Anemone Virginiana. 

 Delphinium consolida. 



NELUirBIACE.1:. 



Nelumbium luteum. 



NT3IPH^ACEj5E. 



Nuphar Kalmiana. 



ClSTACE^. 



Lechea major. 

 ' ' minor. 



Deosebace^. 

 Drosera rotundifoUa. 

 ' ' longifolia. 



Htpekicace^. 



Ascyrum crux andreae. 



" stans. 



Hypericum prolificum. 



" angulosum. 



" mutilum. 



" sarothra. 



Elodea Virginica. 



CARTOPHTLLACE.S;. 



Dianthus armeria. 

 Silene stellata. 

 ' ' antirrhina. 



MALVACEiB. 



Ahutilon Avicenna. 

 Sida spinosa. 



Lixaceje. 

 Linum Virginianum. 

 I860.] 



Balsamixace^. 



Impatiens pallida. 

 " fulva. 



Axacardiace^. 



Rhus typhina. 

 " glabra. 

 " copallina. 

 ' ' toxicodendron. 



ViTACE.a:. 



Ampelopsis quinquifolia. 



Celastrace^. 



Celastrus scandens. 



Poltgalace^. 



Polygala incarnata. 

 ' ' sanguinea. 



LEGUMIXOSiE. 



Crotalaria sagittalis. 

 Desmodium nudiflorum. 



" acuminatum. 



" Isevigatum. 



Stylosanthes elatior. 

 Lespedeza procumbens. 



" repens. 



' ' violacea. 



" angustifoUa, v. 



Apios tuberosa. 

 Cassia Marilandica. 



Rosacea. 



Agrimonia eupatoria. 

 Waldsteinia fragarioides. 

 Potentilla arguta. 

 Geum Virginianum. 




512 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Melastomace^. 

 Rhesia Virginica. 

 ' ' mariana. 



OXAGRACEJE. 



Epilobium angustifolium. 

 (Enotliera biennis. 

 Ludwigia alternifolia. 



" palustris. 

 Proserpinica palustris. 



CBASSULACEiE. 



Penthoram sedoides. 



UlEBELLIFEK^. 



Discopleura capillacea. 

 Slum lineare. 



Akaliace^. 



Aralia racemosa. 



RUBIACE^. 



Gallium concinnum. 

 Cephalanthus occidentalis. 



DlPSACB^. 



Dipsacus sylvestris. 



Composite. 



Liatris spicata. 

 Sericocarpus solidagineus. 



" conyzoides. 



Aster macropliyllus. 

 Eclipta procumbens. 

 Gnaphalium polycephalum. 

 Antennaria margaritacea. 

 Bidens frondosa. 

 Diplopappus umbellatus.. 

 Solidago odora. 



" Muhlenbergii. 

 Ckrysopsis mariana. 

 Inula helenium. 

 Circium lanceolatum. 

 Sonchus oleraceus. 



LOBELIACEiE. 



Lobelia Nuttallii. 



Campakulace^. 



Campanula aparinoides. 

 " Americana. 



Ericace*. 



Gaultlieria procumbens. 

 Clethra alnLfolia. 

 Rhododendron maximum. 

 Chimopbila umbellata. 

 " hypopitys. 



Lestibulace^. 



Utricularia vulgaris. 

 ' ' clandestina. 



SCROPHrLARIACEi^. 



Gratiola aurea. 

 nysantbes gratioloides. 

 Gerardia flava. 



" purpurea. 

 Cbelone glabra. 

 Mimulus alatus. 



" ringens. 



Verbexace^. 



Verbena bastata. 

 Phryma leptostachya. 



Labiate. 

 Teucrium Canadense. 

 Tricbostema dicbotomum. 

 Mentha viridis. 



" piperita. 



" Canadensis. 

 Lycopus Virginicus. 

 Pycnanthemum linifolium. 

 Origanum vulgare. 

 Monarda fistulosa. 

 Nepeta cataria. 

 Brunella vulgaris. 

 Scutellaria integrifolia. 



" versicolor. 



Stachys palustris. 



'' V. aspera. 



BoSRAGIXACEii:. 



Echinospermum lappula. 

 Cynoglossum Morrisoni. 



Polejioxiace;e. 

 Phlox paniculata. 



COXVOLVTLACE^. 



Cuscuta arvensis. 

 " gronovii. 



GESTIANACRffi. 



Sabbatia angularis. 



ASCLEPIADACE^. 



Ascleplas rubra. 



" purpurascens. 

 " incarnata. 



ARISTOLOCHIACEiE. 



Aristolochia serpentaria. 



Phytolaccace;e. 

 Phytolacca decandra. 



Chenopodiace-«. 

 Chenopodium album. 



[Nov. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



5lo 



Chenop odium urbicum. 



" botrys. 



" ambrosioides. 



Atriplex hastata. 



POLYGONACE^S. 



Polygonum sagittatum. 

 ' ' acre. 



SAUKURACEiE. 



Saururus cemuus. 



CEKATOPHYLLACEiE. 



Ceratophyllum demersum. 



CALLITRICHACE.S. 



Callitriche verna. 



P0D0STEMACE.a:. 



Podostemon ceratophyllum. 



EuPHOKBIACEvE. 



Euphorbia maculata. 

 " hypericifolia. 



Acalypha Virginica. 



Urticace^. 

 Urtica dioica. 

 " urens. 

 Bcemeria cylindrica. 

 Humulus lupulus. 



Ttphace^;. 

 Typha latifolia. 

 Sparganum simplex. 



Lemnace^s. 

 Lemna minor. 



NArDACE^S. 



Potamogeton fluitans. 

 V. natans. 



Alismace^s. 

 Alisma plantago. 



ORCHIDACEiE. 



Gymnadenia tridentata. 

 Platanthera flava. 



'• blephariglottis. 



Spiranthes gracilis. 



' ' cernua. 



LlLIACE.«. 



Lilium Canadense. 

 " superbum. 



Melanthace^s. 



Melanthium Virginicum. 

 Zygadenus leimanthoides. 

 I860.] 



Xyeidace^. 

 Xyris bulbosa. 



Orders 54. 

 Species 154. 



August and September 



MALVACE.S. 



Hibiscus moscheutos. 



POLYGALACE.I. 



Poly gala ambigua. 

 *' polygama. 

 " cruciata. 



LeGUMINOSjE. 



Desmodium pauciflorum. 



" humifusum. 



" rotundifoliuni. 



" canescens. 



" DiUenii. 



" paniculatum. 



" ciliare. 



Lespedeza Stuvei. 



" hrrta. 



" capitata. 



" V. angustifolia. 

 Phaseolus perennis. 

 Galactia glabella. 

 Amphicarpsea monoica. 

 Cassia chamaecrista. 

 " nictitans. 



Rosacea. 

 Sanguisorba Canadensis. 

 Geum strictum. 



LyTHKACEjE. 



Cuphea viscosissima. 



Onagkace.*:. 

 Gaura biennis. 

 Myriophyllum verticillatum. 



Umeellifek.*. 

 Archemora rigida. 

 Archangelica hirsuta. 



RrBIACE^. 



Diodia teres. 



CoMPOS]T.a:. 

 Vernonia noveboracencis. 

 Eupatorium purpureum. 



" rotundifolium. 



" pubescens. 



" sessihfolium. 



' ' perfoliatum. 



" ageratoides. 



Mikania scandens. 




514 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Aster corymbosus. 

 " radula. 

 " spectabilis. 

 " patens. 

 " cordifolius. 

 " undulatus. 

 " ericoides. 

 " multiflorus. 

 " dumosus. 

 ' ' miser. 

 ' ' tenuifolia. 

 " simplex. 

 " puniceus. 

 " prenanthoides. 

 Diplopappus linariifoliiis. 

 Solidago bicolor. 

 ' ' latifolia. 

 " coesia. 

 ' ' puberula. 

 ' ' striata. 

 ' ' speciosa. 

 " V. angustata. 

 ' ' neglecta. 

 " altissima. 

 " ulmifolia. 

 " nem oralis. 

 " gigantea. 

 ' ' lanceolata. 

 Ambrosia trifida. 



' ' artemisisefolia. 



Xanthium strumarium. 



" spinosum. 



Rudbeckia laciniata. 

 Helianthus angustifolius. 

 " giganteus. 



" divaricatus. 



" decapetalus. 



Coreopsis tricbosperma. 

 Bidens frondosa. 

 ' ' cernua. 

 ' ' connata. 

 ' ' cry santbemoides . 

 Helenium autiimnale, 

 Tanacetum vulgare. 

 Grnapbalium uliginosum. 

 Erechtbites bieracifolia. 

 Cirsium discolor. 

 " altissimum. 

 ' ' muticum. 

 Lappa major. 

 Hieracium scabrum. 

 Nabalus albus. 

 Mulgedium acuminatum. 



LOBELIACE^. 



Lobelia cardinalis. 

 ' ' sypbilitica. 



Orobanchacee 

 Epiphegus Virginiana* 



SCROPHULARI ACE^ . 



Gerardia tenuifolia. 



" quercifolia. 



' ' pedicularia. 

 Pedicularis lanceolata. 



VeRBENACE/E, 



Verbena urticifolia. 



LABIATiE. 



Lycopus Virginicus. 

 Cunila mariana. 

 Pycuantbemum incanum. 



" lanceolatum. 



Hedeoma pulegioides. 

 Collinsonia Canadensis. 

 Monarda punctata. 

 Lopbantbus nepetoides. 



Gentianace.^. 

 Gentiana Andrewsii. 

 " saponaria. 

 Bartonia tenella. 



^ Asclepiadace^ . 

 Gonolobus macropbyllus. 

 Amarantace^. 

 Amarantus bybridus. 

 " spinosus. 



" albus. 



P0LYG0NACE.E. 

 Polygonum orientale. 



' ' Pennsylvanicum. 



' ' persicaria. 



" bydropiper. 



" bydropiperoides. 



" erectum. v. 



" Virginianum. 



" tenue. 



" articulatum. 



' ' arifolium. 



" dumetorum. 



Okchidace^. 

 Platantbera cristata. 

 * ' ciliaris. 



Goodyera pubescens. 



PoNTEDERIDACEiB. 



Pontederia cordata. 

 Heterantbera reniformis. 

 Schollera graminea. • 



October. 

 Hamamelace^. 

 Hamamelis Virginica. 

 Orders 20. 

 Species 127. 



P^ov. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 



515 



List of Ferns. 



POLTPODINE^. 



Poljrpodium vulgare. 



" hexagonopterum. 



AUosorus atropurpureus. 

 Pteris aquilina. 

 Adiantum peclatuni. 

 Woodwardia angustifolia. 



' ' Yirginica. 



Camptosorus rliizopliyllus. 

 Asplenium pinnatifidum. 



" trichomaues. 



'• ebeneum. 



" angustifolium. 



" thelypteroides. 



'' filix fcemina. 



Dicksonia puuctilobula. 

 Woodsia obtusa. 



" ilreasis. 

 Cystopteris fragilis. 



Aspidium thelypteris. 



" noveboracense. 



' ' spinulosum. 



" V. dilatatum. 



' ' cristatum. 



" marginale. 



" acrosticlioides. 

 Onoclea sensibilis. 



OSMTrNDINE.E. 



Botrychiiim luuarioides. 

 Lygodium palmatum. 

 Osmucda regalis. 



" claytoniana. 



" cinnamomea. 



Botrycliium Virginicum. 

 Opbioglossum vulgatum. 

 Species 32. 



In addition. 

 Ecbium vulgare. 

 Aster lonsifolius. 



Nov. \otli. 

 Mr. Lea, President, in the Chair. 



Thirty-two members present. 



The following papers were presented for publication : 



" Description of a new species of Cassidulus from the Cretaceous 

 formation of Alabama, by Wni. M. Gabb." 



'' Description of a new Genus and species of Araorphozoa from the 

 Cretaceous formation of New Jersey, by Wm. M. Gabb." 



And were referred to a Committee. 



Dr. Rogers exhibited some experiments to show the decomposing power of 

 Carbonic Acid in solution, on bodies containing alkalies and alkaline earths. 

 Specimens of several kinds of glass, mica and trap rock in fine powder, placed 

 on filters, were treated with a solution of carbonic acid dissolved in water. 

 A notable proportion of the alkaline bases was dissolved, as was shown by its 

 action on turmeric paper. Dr. Rogers referred to the bearing of this fact in 

 Geology, especially the absence of alkalies in the ashes of coal and the disin- 

 tegration of rocks. 



Nov. 20t7i. 

 Mr. Lea, President, in the Chair. 



Fifty members present. 



Dr. Fisher exhibited a specimen of Peat, obtained by Mr. J. C. Trautwine 

 on the Atrato River, fr<im a bed of leaves. The bed was about thirty feet 

 thick, and the specimen exhibited was taken from about fifteen feet below the 

 surface. On the suiface the leaves were fresh, but were gradually changed 

 at different depths, so that the bottom of the bed closely resembled bituminous 

 coal. 



Dr. Rogers exhibited Prof. Way's electric light, produced by the ignition of 

 1860.1 




516 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



a stream of mercury. He also exhibited the original experiment made by Dr. 

 Hare several years since, when Dr. Rogers was his assistant, and explained 

 the difference between them as consisting in the one light being formed by 

 a self-sustaining battery, and the other by a battery transient in its effects. 



Dr. Leidy read a letter from Mr. Robert D. Owen, of New Harmony, 

 announcing the death, on the 13th inst., of Dr. David Dale Owen, late 

 a Correspondent of the Academy. 



On motion of Dr. Rogers, the Secretary was directed to communicate 

 to the immediate relatives of Dr. Owen the regret of the Academy at 

 its loss. 



On motion of Dr. Rand, the thanks of the Academy were presented 

 to Messrs. Van Amburg & Co. for donations to the Museum, and the 

 privilege of giving orders of admission to the Museum on public days 

 was granted to the same. 



Mv. 22(1. 



Special Meeting. 



Mr. Lea, President, in the Chair. 



The President announced the decease of our respected Vice-Presi- 

 dent, Major Le Coute, on the 21st inst., and stated the object of the 

 meeting to be to express the sense of the Academy at its loss. After 

 a short review of the character and labors of 3Iajor Le Conte, by Dr. 

 Fisher, Dr. Elwyn, Mr. Foulke and Mr. Lea, Dr. Fisher offered the 

 following resolutions, which were unanimously adopted : 



Resolved, That the Academy has heard with the deepest regret of the death 

 of our late esteemed Vice-President, Maj. John Le Conte, who has for so many 

 years adorned the ranks of the students of Natural Science in America, and 

 who at the time of his decease was one of the oldest naturalists in our country. 



Resolved, That Mr. John Cassin be requested to prepare a biographical notice 

 of Maj. Le Conte. 



Resolved, That the Secretary be instructed to send to the family of our de- 

 ceased Vice-President a copy of these resolutions, and that they be published 

 in the daily journals of this city. 



Resolved, That the members of the Academy will meet at the Hall of the 

 Academy at 10 o'clock, A. M., on Saturday the 24th inst., to proceed from 

 thence to attend the funeral of the deceased. 



Nov. 27th. 



Vice-President Bridges in the Chair. 



Thirty members present. 



The following papers were, on report of their respective Committees, 

 ordered to be published in the Proceedings : 



[Nov. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 517 



Descriptions of new species of the Eeptilian genera Hyperoliuf, Liupems and 



Tropidociipsas. 



BY E. P. COPE. 

 HrPEROLins fulvovittatus Cope- 

 Tympanum concealed. Head elongate, external nares lateral. Internal 

 nares circular ; eustachiari orifices elongate oval. Tongue elongate, deeply 

 bifid. Skin of the dorsal region smooth. Tibia longer than femur ; fifth toe 

 much shorter than the fourth, and longer than the third. Length of head 

 and body 10 o lines. 



Coloration. Above pale yellowish brown (in spirits), with a light fulvous 

 band upon each side, passing from the end of the muzzle to the thigh. 

 Two bands of the same color extend one on each side of tlie vertebral line, 

 and passing above the eyes, become confluent on the muzzle. These bands 

 are about as wide as the spaces of ground color they enclose. Beneath, light 

 yellowish brown. 



Hab. Liberia. Mus. Acad. Nat. Sci. Presented by Dr. Goheen. 



LlUPEKUS BILIGONIGEEUS Cope. 



Form very stout. Head broad, short, frontal region a little wider than 

 each palpebra. Muzzle prominent, very obtuse in profile. Canthus rostralis 

 rounded, nostrils vertico-lateral. Eyes very prominent. Tympanum con- 

 cealed ; eustachian orifices exceedingly minute. Tongue small, elliptic ob- 

 long, entire. Skin above and below very smooth, some granulations upon 

 the posterior faces of the femora. A few small glandulous elevations between 

 and posterior to the eyes, and upon the anterior part of the back. A pectoral 

 fold. Two rounded tuberosities on the carpus ; fourth digit short(\st, third 

 longest. Femora very stout. Tarsus equal to the fore arm in length, fur- 

 nished with a minute, acute tubercle near the middle of its posterior face, 

 which is not brown tipped ; and at its inferior extremity with two transverse, 

 compressed tubercles or spurs, which are tipped with brown. Metatarsus not 

 tuberculous. Length of head and body measured beneath, 1] lines ; of tibia, 

 4^ lines. Breadth beneath, from axilla to axilla, 4^ lines. 



Coloration. Above marbled with pale rufous brown, with darker markings 

 intermixed. These are, a narrow band bisecting each eyelid ; a blotch extend- 

 ing from eye to shoulder ; a pair of small spots upon the back, posterior to 

 the eyes ; another larger pair, one behind each suprascapular region ; one 

 upon each side of the coccyx ; a curved band extending from iliac region to 

 femur, and a lateral band extending from behind the shoulder, which 

 vanishes before reaching the thigh. A pale dorsal line, lightest posteriorly. 

 Beneath, dirty white. 



Hah. Buenos Ayres. Mus. Acad. Nat.»-Sci. Presented by Dr. Kennedy. 

 In Liuperus marmoratiis D. Sr ST, the tympanum is distinct, and the 

 skin is very tuberculous. In L. sagittifer Schm., the frontal region is 

 much narrower, and a series of tubercles extends from the eye, posteriorly. 



TROPIDODIPSAS LnNDLATA CopC. 



Body much compressed, its vertical diameter near the middle two and a 

 half times as great as near the neck. Tail slender, cylindrical, between one- 

 fourth and one-third the total length. Head very distinct, elongate, de- 



NoTE. — The following papers, viz., "Mexican Humming Birds, Nos. 3 and 

 4," by Raphael Montes de Oca, " Contributions to the Carboniferous Flora of 

 tHe United States, No. 2," by Horatio G. Wood, Jr., and "Contributions to 

 American Lepidopterology, No. 7," by Brackenridge Clemens, M. D., were 

 read to the Academy Nov. 20th, but were inadvertently omitted in the minutes 

 of that date. 

 I860.] 36 




518 PROCEEDINGS OF THE, ACADEMY Of 



pressed. Muzzle rounded ; eye very large, -with a round pupil. Rostral plate 

 broader than high, its superior border rounded. Prefontals small ; post- 

 frontals large, bent upon the sides of the head. Vertical large, longer than 

 broad, its lateral borders concave. Superciliaries very large, arched ; oc- 

 cipitals rather broad, their common suture not longer than the vertical plate, 

 bounded externally by three temporals. Two temporals in contact with the 

 two postoculars. One large preocular not in contact with vertical. Loreal 

 single, not longer than high. Nasals two, the nostril between them large. 

 Superior labials nine, fourth, fifth and sixth entering the orbit. Inferior 

 labials fourteen, second to sixth very narrow ; eighth largest. Scales in 

 twenty-three rows ; anteriorly four or five, posteriorly thirteen median rows 

 weaklv keeled. Gastrosteges slightly recurved upon the sides, not angu- 

 lated 204 in number. A divided anal, urosteges 13b'. Total length 25 in. 

 3 lin. ; tail 7 in. 3 lin. 



Coloration. Ground, a light greyish rufous (tinged with yellow beneath,) 

 densely punctulated above and below, with rufous brown. The upper surface 

 is crossed by about thirty-five transverse crescent shaped, fulvous brown 

 bands bordered with black. Upon the median line anteriorly these are one 

 or two scales wide, bixt become much narrower as they are prolonged obliquely 

 backward upon the sides, vanishing upon the third row of scales. Pos- 

 teriorly they are broader, and extend to a dark brown spot, which occupies 

 the ends of every third pair of gastrosteges. A short, deep biown median 

 vitta upon the neck ; a spot of the same at the posterior extremity of the 

 occipital suture, one upon each occipital, and one upon the posterior part 

 of the vertical plate. A light brown band crosses the postfroutal plates, 

 extends through the eye, and for a short distance upon the neck, involving 

 nearly the whole of the last labial shield, and the upper borders of the three 

 anterior to it. Remaining labials and throat light yellow. 



ffab, Honduras. Mus. Smithsonian Institute. Obtained by Mr. A. H. 

 Riise, of St. Thomas, W. I. 



Tropidodipsas Gthr. is one of the few genera of Dipsadine serpents 

 characterized by the possession of keeled scales. I have referred the present 

 species to it with some hesitation, on account of the diflference between the 

 form of its head and that of T. fasciata. GKinther states that the head of 

 the latter is sborter than that of Dipsas nebulata. In T. lunulata 

 the head is more like that of a Herpetodryas. The dentition is isodont. 



Description of a new genus and species of Amorphozoon, from the Cretaceous 

 formation of New Jersey. 



BY W. M. GABB 



I received some time ago from Mr. C. C. Abbott, with some othef cretaceous 

 fossils, a small fossil, that I at once referred to the Amorphozoa. I was unable 

 to decide in what genus to place it. After a careful study of the subject, I 

 am satisfied that it cannot belong to any existing genus. It is, however, 

 closely related to Siphonia of Parkinson. I propose the generic name 

 Desmatocium, Gabb. 



Gen. char. Elongated, regular in form ; tubulate through the whole length ; 

 .stem robust and with several inflations, but no distinct head. 



D. trilobat um. PI. 69, f. 39 — 39 a. Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci., 2nd series, 



vol. 4. 



Length of the fragment 1^ inches. Width of smallest lobe | of an inch. 

 Width of second lobe | of an inch. The first lobe is somewhat elongate, the 

 second is more compressed. There have been at least three lobes, but the 

 upper one is broken. 



Near MuUica Hill, N. J. My collection. 



[Nov. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 519 



Description of a new species of Cassidulus, from tli3 Creta:93'i3. faraiatioa 



of 'Alabama. 



BY W. M. GABB. 



C. micrococcus. PL S, fig. 1. Oval, slightly iiittened, widri.?t jast 

 beliind the mouth; ambulaL?ral summit in airauce of the ceatre : below 

 .slightly concave ; peristome small, the channels between the tubercles very 

 narrow ; surface above minutely and sparsely granulate ; below covered 

 with small, closely arranged tubercles, placed irregularly. 



Ripley Group, Eufala, Ala. 



This species resembles C. cequorus of Morton, but is twice or three times as 

 large ; the upper surface, which is distinctly granulate in Morton's species, is 

 apparently smooth, except under a glass, in this. Below, the tubercles on 

 this species are very small, closely and irregularly arranged. In cequorits 

 they are much larger, and placed further apart. The anal furrow does not 

 approach so near the lower margin as in cequorus. 



Contribatioas to the Carboniferoas Flora of the TJaited States.— ¥o. II. 



BY HORATIO C. WOOD, JR. 



Cyclopteris, Brong. 

 C. c r i s pa, nobis. 



Syn. Filicitea crispa, Germ. & Kaulf. Nova Acta Acad. C. L. C. Nat. Cur. 

 vol. XV. par. ii. page 229, pi. Q6, fig. o, 1831. Adiantites Germari, Grupp, Sys. 

 Fill. Foss. Nova Acta, vol. xvii. Sup. p. 218, 1836. Cyclopteris Germari, 

 "Gopp, " linger, Gen. et Spec. Foss. Plant, p. 9a, and Pro"'. Lesquereux, Geol. 

 of Pennsylvania, vol. ii. p. 856. 



C. Wil s onii , nobis. 



Leaf sub-orbicular or subobovate, narrowed at base, thin, plicate ; margin 

 irregular, incised, fimbriate, especially above ; fimbria stout, unequal, often 

 bifurcat?, sometimes branch?d ; nerves numerous, thin, close, arniatt;, flexu- 

 ous, dichotomous. Rachis unknown. 



The nervation of this species, as well as the peculiar form of the fimbria, 

 separates it from C. Jimbriata, Lesq., C. laciniata, Lesq., and C. crispa, 

 nobis. Among the Neuropteris, it is most nearly allied to X. dcnfata, of Lesq. 

 and may possibly prove to be the cyclopteroid form of that species. In the 

 only specimen that we have seen, both of the leaves have one margin folded 

 beneath them, and are variously plicated. One leaf, only, has the basal 

 margin of one side distinct ; this part of the border is not fimbriate, but un- 

 dulate, probably, however, there will be found to be a variation in this respect. 

 It affords us much pleasure to dedicate this handsome plant to Dr. T. B. 

 Wilson, who has done so much for the advancement of natural science in 

 America. 



Cabinet of the Academy. 



Lepidodendron, Sternb. 



L. rectangulum, nobis. 



Leaf scar almost a square ; angles about 90" ; mar^n moderately broad, 

 generally distinct, often slightly raised ; vascular scar broad, sub-rhomboidal, 

 with a small triangular depression at its apex and its basal angle rounded, 

 but the others acute, situated in and filling up the apex of main scar, 

 marked internally with three (often obsolete) dots, which are disposed in a 

 curve near its basal angle ; appendices distinct, sub-parallel to the margin ; 

 medial line not well marked, but with a number of heavy transverse wrinkles. 



I860.] 




520 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Tliis handsome and distinct species was discovered at Ashland, Schuylkill 

 County, Pa^ by Mr. T. Guilford Smith, and by him presented to the Academy, 



L. chilalloeum, nobis. 



Leaf scar sub-oval, elongate and acuminate above and below, often com- 

 municating one with another; margins distinct, broad, alternately contracted 

 and enlarged for half the length of the scar ; vascular scar sub-rhomboidal, 

 their transverse diameter very much exceeding their height, (sometimes four 

 times as great); internal markings and appendices obsolete ; medial line, above 

 the vascular scar, well marked and furnished with a triangular depression, 

 below, almost obsolete, but crossed by a number of heavy transverse wrinkles. 



The form of the ribs ally this pXant to L. dicrockilum, nobis, but the 

 internal markings as well as shape of main scar widely separate it from that 

 species. 



L. salebrosum, nobis. 



Leaf scar rhomboidal, uneven ; margin heavy, raised, irregularly plicate, 

 quite flexuous ; angles sometimes rounded, sometimes acute ; medial vascular 

 cicatrix sub-central, small, in one scar in our specimen marked with two 

 very much raised lines, in the form of a cross, (this may be accidental) ; ap- 

 pendices and medial line obsolete. 



Cabinet of the Academy. Locality unkown. 



L. uraeum, nobis. 



Scars elliptical, very much elongate, caudate and slightly curved above and 

 below, impressed with flexuous transverse wrinkles disposed with some ap- 

 proach to regularity ; margin raised, very narrow, almost linear ; vascular 

 scar sub-rhomboidal or subtriangular, (in the one case having the basal angle 

 acute, in the other, the base merely convex, remaining angles being mostly 

 obtuse), situated a little above the centre of the main scar, impressed with 

 three dots arranged in a curve near its base ; medial line not very distinct, but 

 running the whole length of the leaf scar — above the cicatriculus — smooth and 

 furnished with a triangular expansion approacliing in size to the vascular scar 

 — below the cicatriculus — crossed by many heavy transverse flexuous wrinkles ; 

 appendices subdistinct, irregularly curved and of considerable length ; tuber- 

 cles oval, elongate, somewhat acuminate, situated at base of vascular scar, 

 and close to the medial line. 



In our specimen the totallengthof the leaf scar is 2 9-lOths inches, being five 

 times as great as its breadth. The vascular scar is placed somewhat obliquely in 

 the main scar. At the extremities of the latter, the two margins are so ap- 

 proximated as to be merely separated by a groove. This species is, perhaps, 

 closely allied to L. candatinn, Ung. We have never seen Sternberg's 

 figure of that plant, and Unger's description is excessively meagre : but out of 

 the few given characters our specimen diifers in the great rugosity of the medial 

 line, as well as in the obtuseness of the angles of the cicatriculus. We may 

 be mistaken in our idea as to the relationship of the two plants, as Unger's 

 description leaves one so much in the dark. 



Private collection. Found by Mr. John Fulton in the Broad Top Coal Field, 

 where it appears not to be uncommon. 



SiGiLLAKiA, Brongt. 



Sub- genus Rhytidolepis. 



S. cymatoides, nobis. 



Stem costate ; costse narrow, convex ; furrows very distinct, marked in decor- 

 ticated state, with numerous longitudinal striae, which are also found more or 

 less deeply excavated on the ribs ; scars somewhat elongate, as wide as the 

 ribs, disposed in quincunx, the space between them being a little less than 

 half their length, impressed with very numerous transverse striae, their lower 



[Nov. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 521 



half tumified, so as to form, as it were, grooves between them, crossing the 

 ribs at au angle of about 60'', (these are much more stiongly marked when 

 the bark is removed) ; vascular scars three, composed of a central dot with a 

 curved linear impression on each side. 



Localitij. Hazleton Mines. Cabinet of the Academy. Presented by Matthew 

 Baird, Esq. 



S. n o t a t a , nobis. 

 Phyto' ithus notatus, Steinh., S. elliptica, Brong. S. atcenuata, Lesq. 

 We see no character on which Prof. Lesquereux's species can be separated. 

 He says: "Tliis species, viz. iigs. 1 and 2, could perhaps be referred to 

 S. elliptica, Brgt. and viz. fig. 3, to S. Sillimanii, Brgt. But the form of tli'' scars 

 in figs, one and two is broader and shorter than in the varieties of S. eHiptica. 

 The aut'ior (Brongt.) says that '.S. elliptica has the scars only half as broad 

 as the ribs, whilst in our species they fill nearly the whole breadth.' " After- 

 wards, when reconciling the three varieties together, he says, "But it must 

 be remarked with Artis (Anted. Phytol.) tlaat the distance between the scars 

 of the leaves, as also the breadth of the ribs, is variable on the same tree. 

 The ribs enlarge towards the base of the tree and the scars become broader 

 and nearer together." Now is not tliis argument as applicable to tlie identity 

 of S. eHiptica and 5. attenuata, as to tliat of the three varieties of the latter, 

 which certainly diiFer as much, if not more, from one aiiother, than from the 

 different firms of <S. elliptica? The most important character separating the 

 two ? speeies, as given by the Professor, is the difference in tlie pro- 

 portion of the width of scars to that of ribs. The breadth of the scars in liis 

 first variety is certainly very great, but in au English specimen (which we 

 doubt not was Steinliauer's type) now in possession of the Academy, the 

 breadth of the scars bears a proportion to that of the ribs almost as great 

 as in Lesquereux's second fig. and much greater than in his third variety. 

 Some of the varieties of S- elliptica, Brongt.-, figured by Groldenberg, (Flor. 

 Saraepont. Fossil.) also scarcely differ in this respect from the second form 

 of S. attenuata, and have the breadth greater than in the third variety. The 

 Professor remarks : "'The reason for admitting these three specimens as three 

 forms of the same species are ;******, and that they have the 

 same general form of scars, ribs, and furrows ; the same disposition of scars of 

 the vessels either upon their nake 1 surface or the corticated narrow striated 

 portion." These are the very reasons which have influenced \is in uniting 

 the different forms ; the specimens in the foreign collection of the Academy 

 possessing these characters in common with Lesquereux's plates. We have 

 elsewhere shown that S. e'liptica, of Brongt., is synonymous with Phytol. 

 pamiatus, of Steinhauer, and that S. notata, Br., (if it is a good species) is not, 

 and therefore propose to call the latter S. Brongniartii. 



Sub-genus Sybingodendron, St. 

 S. bistriata, nobis. 



Stem ecostate ; bark thin, striate ; stria very numerous, flexuous, occurring 

 in two forms, the one deep and strongly marked, the other small and straighter ; 

 scars sub-rotund, disposed in pairs about eight lines apart, very small. 



When decorticated, the scars are very elongate, often pyriform, and the 

 striae very numerous, small and less flexuous. 



Cabinet of the Academy. Locality unknown. 



Note. — I take this opportunity of correcting the very numerous typo- 

 graphical errors in my recent catalogue. The printer faiied to send to me a 

 revise, and errors noted in the first proof were not corrected, and consequently 

 misprints abound. The following are the most important : 



Page 436, substitute Catalogue of Foreign Carboniferous, &c., for " Cata- 

 logue of Carboniferous," &c. ; line 22, their for " these" ; 1. 33, macrodon for 



I860.] 




522 rROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



" macrodontus." Page 438, 1. 1, Trochophyllum for " Trocopbyllum ; " 1. 6 

 and 7, fertilis for "fertilus;" 1. 15, cordata for "cordala." Page 439, 1. 27, 

 triloba for "trilobus ;" 1. 33, Noeggerathia for " Noegerathia ;" 1. 46, linearis 

 for " lunearis." Page 440, 1. 15, Hawkesburj for " Hawkesburg ;" 1. 10, 19, 

 24 and 29, Gopp for "Goep ;" 1. 31, oreopteroides for " oreopterodes ;" I. 45, 

 Pluckenettii for " Pluckenetli.'' Page 441, 1. 12, Lepidodendron for " Lepi- 

 dondendron;" 1. 31, either — or for "neither — nor." Page 442, 1. 27, Hut- 

 ton ia for "Hi^ttoni;" 1. 33, Rhytidolepis for " Phitodolepis ;" 1. 53, solanota 

 for "solanus," psilophloea for "psilophloeus." 



Contributions to American Lepidopterology. — No. 7. 



BY BRACKENRIDGE CLEMENS, M. D. 



BOMBYCIDiE. 



Oylothkix. 



Fore wings with the tip and inner angle rounded ; inner margin about one- 

 half as long as the exterior ; hind margin entiie, veryoblique ; woolly toward 

 the base, with the hairs curled. The subcostal vein sends olF two marginal 

 nervules from the cell, one near its superior angle and the other above the 

 origin of the discal vein. Exterior to the cell it becomes 3-branched ; giving 

 off the apical nervule first near the second marginal and immediately 

 subdividing into post-apical and subcosto-inferior. The disco-central arises 

 from the middle of the <ingulated discal vein. The median is 4-branched, the 

 posterior arising about the middle of the cell and the branches equidistant, 

 except the medio-discal and superior. The fold of the wing is thickened, 

 Suhmedian vein furcate at the base, with a branch to inner margin in the 

 basal third of the wings. Hind wings longer than the abdomen, smooth, 

 without costal vein, and bristle and socket. The subcostal vein is bifid, in- 

 distinctly furcate at its base, its lower branch giving rise to the discal vein, 

 which is slightly angulated beneath the origin of the disco-central nervule. 

 Median vein 4-branched, the posterior arising about the middle of the cell. 



Head small, rather impacted on the thorax, not depressed, without ocelli. 

 Face extremely narrow ; eyes small and round. Antennse, basal joint slight- 

 ly tufted, the stalk simple from the base to the middle, and thence to the tip 

 with extremely short pectinations ; about as long as the thorax. Labial palpi 

 cylindric, very short. Tongue wanting. Thorax thick, with long, rather 

 erected silky hairs. Abdomen pilose, without apical tuft, and the legs very 

 hairy, even to the tips of the tarsi ; posterior tibise with two extremely short 

 apical spurs. 



0. salebrosa . — Fawn color. Face, labial palpi and breast beneath the 

 mouth dark brown. Antennse grayish. Thorax with whitish hairs on the 

 disk in front, and a pencil of the same on each side behind tegula-. Along 

 the base of the nervules of the fore wings is a rather broad grayish space, ex- 

 tending from the costa almost to the inner margin, with each of the nervules 

 marked on both sides by a short brown line, while the nervules are grayish. 

 The inner streak of the subcosto-inferior nervule is blackish brown, and on the 

 discal vein is a streak of the same hue. In the space between the median 

 and submedian veins the wing is reddish brown, mixed with blackish, with 

 two blackish points extended into the grayish space on each side of the thick- 

 ened fold. Hind wings concolorous, pale luteous. Legs with whitish hairs, 

 farsi black. 



iXoTE. — The species marked with an [*] in the present paper are not in the collection 

 of ihe writer; should any one, therefore, recognize the descriptions he will feel much 

 obliged for specimens of the insects so marked. 



[Nov. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 523 



The wings of the specimen described are badly denuded from the disk to 

 the costa, yet the markings given above are sufficiently distinct and charac- 

 teristic to indicate the insect hereafter. The genus belongs to the family 

 Bombycidre. 



Mexico, near Jalapa. 



ARCTIIDiE. 

 EcPANTHERiA, Hiibner. 



Fore wings about one-third longer than the hind wings, with the subcostal 

 rein having a single marginal branch from the cell and another midway be- 

 tween the post-apical and inferior nervules ; the latter arises a little exterior 

 to the discal vein and the former midway between th(^ apical nervulet and the 

 second marginal. The median vein is 4-branched, with the posterior moder- 

 ately' remote from the penultimate. Hind wings as long as the abdomen, 

 with the interior sometimes, dilated and rather caudate ; neuration arctite- 

 form. 



Head small, depressed, smooth ; without ocelli. Fare moderate, retreating. 

 Eyes rather small. Antennae serrate:! in the r^, simple in the J. Labial 

 palpi short, not extending beyond the clypeus, rather stout and porrected ; 

 middle joint short, terminal joint very small. Tongue rather thick, slightly 

 longer than the anterior coxjb. 



Body stout. Tliorax globose, smooth, with scales. Patagia erected, over- 

 lapping the front of mesothorax, nearly square. Breast and abdomen smooth. 

 Legs thick and smooth, the tibial spur of fore legs moderate, hind tibise with 

 two minute apical spurs. 



Table of Species. 

 Thorax white. 



With many blackish or brown ringlets. 



Abdomen yellow, with bluish black dorsal spot~, S c r i b o n i a . 



Abdomen red, with broad blue bands, c a u d a t a. 



Abdomen dark blue above, with luteous spots f^ ip . , 



Abdomen luteous, with blue, purple, or green bands 9 ) 

 With ten bluish black spots, e x t r e m a . 



Without ringlets or spots, obliterata. 



With ocellated spots. 

 Abdomen blue, with crimson bands, nigriplaga. 



Abdomen ochraceous, with lateral blue spots. 



Hind wings of (^ hardly tailed, simplex. 



Hind wings of r^ with rather long tail, decora. 



Thorax cinereous. Fore wings with white, black bordered 



streaks, incarnata. 



E. Scribonia, StoU. — White. Thorax and fore wings with numerous 

 brown circles, on the latter arranged in five or six illy defined, curved bands. 

 Hind wings with a few circles along the exterior margin and a row along the 

 hind margin. Abdomen beneath white, with three rows of small brown 

 circles ; above bluish black banded with yellow, or orange yellow, with two 

 lateral rows of dark margined, whitish spots. Sometimes the thorax, under 

 portion of the body, the base and basal margins of the fore wings are pale 

 brown. 



Texas. Col. of Capt. Pope, Smithsonian Institution. 111., Mr. Kenuicott : 

 X. Y., Ga., S. America. 



*E. caudata, Walker. — White. Head dark blue in front, excepting a 

 white spot on the face. Antennje dark blue. Thorax with numerous brown 

 ringlets, some of which are tinged with pale metallic blue or green. Ab loraen 

 red, clothed with testaceous hairs at the base ; dorsal segments with broad 



ISGO.] 




524 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



blue bands, which are partly Interrupted in the middle, and wholly inter- 

 rupted on each side. Knees and tarsi beneath metallic blue. Fore wings 

 with five or six oblique bands of small, separated brown ringlets, those along 

 the costa are larger and with broader borders, and nearly subquadrate. Hind 

 M'ings with the inner angle prolonged into a short tail. 

 Mexico. 



*E. iucarnata, Walker. — Gray. Head frith a curved white black- 

 bordered band in front of the antennas, and with a black border on each side, 

 behind, and toward the mouth. Tongue pale testaceous. Palpi red, white 

 beneath. Antennae black, white at the base. Thorax with flae slender black 

 stripes, the middle one and the inner pair abbreviated in front, accompanied 

 with some white and red hairs behind ; a white stripe on each side, widening 

 from the head to the fore wings. Breast mostly white. Abdomen dark blue, 

 with a red stripe on each side ; under side testaceous, with a black stri-pe 

 Femora with red, black-bordered stripes ; tibiae with white stripes ; tarsi with, 

 red bands. Fore wings with various irregular white black-bordered streaks, 

 which are broadest and most oblique along the costa, where the black hind 

 border of them is dilated and forms a discal mark ; these streaks are mostly 

 red on the under side. Hind wings red [ ? ] at the base and with two crimson 

 macular oblique bands, which on the under side toward the costa are white, 

 with black borders. 



Arachnis aidcEa ? Mexico. 



*E. extrema. Walker. — White. Head bluish black in front. Antennae 

 black, tinged with blue at the base. Thorax with ten bluish black spots, two 

 in front, two behind, and each three of the other sis forming two intermediate 

 bauds. Breast blackish brown. Abdomen bluish black, with a testaceous 

 stripe on each side ; under side white, with three rows of black spots. Legs 

 bluish black, with white sti-eaks and spots. Fore wings witii two oblique, 

 more or less interrupted dark brown bands, the intermediate spaces with 

 various dark brown spots, dots and streaks. 



Male. — Hind wings grayish brown, with two white spots, one costal, the 

 other discal ; cilia partly white. 



Female. — Hind wings white, with a few grayish brown submarginal spots 

 and marginal dots. 



Mexico. 



*E. obliterata. Walker. — White, stout. Autenn£e black beneath. Ab- 

 <lomen above luteous, with two rows of white spots ; base and tip white. 

 Femora and tibiae with luteous stripes ; ungues black. Fore wings with four 

 oblique bands of connected testaceous ringlets. Hind wings with three more 

 indistinct bands of the same, their hind borders slightly emarginate and un- 

 dulating, with the inner angle somewhat dilated. 



West Indies. 



* E. nigriplaga, Walker. — White. Antennae black. Thorax with 

 greenish or bluish black ringlets. Abdomen dark metallic blue, with crimson 

 bands, clothed with blackish brown hairs at the base ; tip with white hairs 

 on each side ; under side with tawny hairs at the tip. Tibiae with black bands ; 

 tarsi black, partly white at the base. Fore wings with greenish or bluish 

 black ringlets, whose disks are grayish or dingy white ; these are largest on 

 the borders, very small on the disk or toward the tips of the wings. Hind 

 wings with two large black spots on the fore border, hairy, vaulted cylindri- 

 callr and each including a tuft along the abdomen, their tails reaching to the 

 tip of the abdomen, and each with a large black elliptical spot. 



Jamaica. 



*E. simplex, Walker. — Afale. White. Head in front and beneath, 

 and palpi blackish brown. Antennae blackish brown, minitely pectinated, 



[Nov. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 525 



white above. Disk of the thorax with blackish brown ringlets, which vary iu 

 size and number. Abdomen orange above, white at the tip, with brown and 

 white bands at the base, and with a row of blue spots along each side. Legs 

 brown, with white stripes ; tarsi with white bands. Fore wings with six 

 oblique bands of pale brown ringlets. 

 West Indies. 



*E. decora, Walker. — Male. White. Head blue about the eyes ; ver- 

 tex with a black band, which encloses a whitish spot. Palpi and antenna 

 black. Thorax with nine Idue ocelli, two in front, then four in a curved band, 

 and behind tliem three which form a triangle. Abdomen luteous, blue at the 

 base, and with two rows of transverse blue spots ; tip white, with four 

 streaks, the outer pair black, the inner pair blue, united hindward. Legs 

 with black stripes and bands ; tarsi blue. Fore wings with nixmerous black 

 ocelli, which are disposed in six oblique irregular bands ; some angular and 

 incomplete ocidli along the costa, and a blue mark on the discal are )let. Hind 

 wings with a black interrupted stripe along the interior border, which termi- 

 nates in a rather long tail. 



St. Domingo. 



*E. Cunigunda, Cramer. — Male. White. Head metallic blue in 

 front and about the eyes. Thorax and fore wings with dark brown ringlets, 

 which on the latter form six oblique bands. Stutellum with two blue spots. 

 Abdomen above dark blue, clothed with brown hairs at the base, whitish at 

 the tip, with a row of luteous triangular spots along each side ; hind borders 

 of some of the segments partly luteous ; under side slightly testaceous, with 

 three rows of blue spots. Femora with a blue spot on each tip ; fore femora 

 and tibiiB partly blue ; tarsi blue. Fore wings with subquadrate, slightly 

 testaceous black-bordered costal spots. Hind wings with the inner angle 

 prolonged into a sliort tail, and having a black spot. 



Female. — White. Palpi partly brown. Antennae black, white at the base. 

 Thorax with four pairs of testaceous ringlets of different sizes and shapes. 

 Abdomen above luteous, with three blue, purple, green or gray bands ; these 

 are more or less dilated and connected on each side, and excavated in the 

 middle, and in one specimen the abdomen is gray above, with three luteous 

 black- bordered stripes. Tibiae with brown ringlets ; tarsi blackish. Fore 

 wings with six oblique bands of connected testaceous brown ringlets, which 

 are very variable in size and shape, and are in some cases partly confluent, 

 and in one variety those in the fifth are partly shaded with brown ; the bor- 

 ders of the costal ringlets, and of a reniform discal ringlet, are darker than 

 the others in the wing. The ringlets are still more variable and irregular in 

 the hind wings, which are occasionally nearly wholly pale brown. 



Honduras, S. America. 



Arachnis, Hiibner. 



Fore wings nearly one-third longer than the hinder pair, much longer than 

 the body. The subcostal vein forms a small costal cell, immediately behind 

 the origin of the discal vein, and gives rise to a marginal nervule which sends 

 off, near its middle, a short nervulet to the costa ; near the tip of the wing it 

 sends off the post-apical nervule and behind it becomes bifid. The subcosto- 

 inferior arises on a short stalk common to it and the discal vein. The median 

 is 4-branched, the medio-posterior being very remote from the penultimate 

 branch. Hind wings about equal to the abdomen, broader than th*^ anterior 

 pair, with neuration as usual in the family. 



Female. — Head quite small, somewhat depressed, smooth ; with ocelli. 

 Face moderately broad, slightly inclined. Eyes very small. Antennae simple. 

 Labial palpi rather short, scarcely extending be.yond the clypeus, but slightly 

 curved and ascending, and slightly hairy beneath ; third joint short. Tongue 

 exceeding the tips of labial palpi by one-half its length. 



I860.] ^ 




»'-0 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEiMY OF 



Body rather stout. Thorax smooth, with scales. Patagia moderate, trape- 

 zoidal, not concealing the vertex. Breast and abdomen smooth except toward 

 the base ; legs rather stout, femora downy, the hind tibiae having four short 

 spurs. 



A. aulsea, Hubner. — f. 913-14. Ecpantheria incarnata? Mouse 



gray. Antennje black, whitish' at the base. Labial palpi crimson, with 

 whitish hairs beneath. Head with a pale yellowish white band in front, above 

 the eves, black-margined beneath, and a black circle between the antennae. 

 Patagia each with a black circle on their edges, and a pale yellowish white 

 stripe on the sides of thorax from the head to the base of fore wings. Tegul» 

 with two black-marginal lines, and the disk of thorax with a central line of 

 the same hue, and one on each side of it that corresponds to the upper one on 

 the tegulae. Fore wings with six irregular, oblique, pale yellowish white 

 streaks along the costa, bordered with black lines, with a black spot on the 

 disk beneath the third band. Beneath the median vein the wing is veined 

 with black lines enclosing pale yellowish white spaces, and between the 

 nervules on the hinder margin is a series of streaks of the same hue, black- 

 margined. Hind wings black, crimson toward the base, with a macular band 

 of the same hue abou-t the middle of the wing and one on the hinder margin. 

 On the itnder surface of both pairs of wings all the spots are crimson. Ab- 

 domen with a dark brown central band widening from the base and margined 

 with black, with a band on each side, crimson from the base to the middle 

 and thence to the tip luteous. Breast whitish, with a dark brown circle on 

 each anterior coxae, which are tinted with crimson internally. All the femora 

 crimson internally ; tarsi aniiulated with crimson. 



Unless Mr. Walker's description refers to this insect, I think it has not been 

 described since the time of Hubner. I have recognized the genus under which 

 this author placed it, because I regard the insect as distinct generically from 

 Ecpantheria. The two genera are, however, beyond doubt nearly related, 

 while at the same time the neuration of the wings shows close relationship to 

 the genus Arctia. 



Mexico, near Jalapa. 



Arctia, Schrank. 



Fore wings with the subcostal nervure having two marginal nervules from 

 near the end of the cell, and with a long, narrow costal cell formed between 

 the pecond marginal and subcostal vein, and extended a little beyond the 

 origin of the post-apical, or without this cell. The subcosto-inferior nervule 

 and the discal vein arises at a common point, and toward the apical portion 

 of the wing is given off the post-apical nervule and tlie apical nervulet. Th6 

 median vein 4-branched, the posterior nervule being very remote from the 

 others. Hind wings broader than the fore wings, as long or rather longer ; 

 neuration as usual in the family. Sometimes the neuration of the fore wings 

 varies from that of the typical species, in having a single marginal nervule from 

 the cell and another between the origins of the post-apical nervule and apical 

 nervulet, thus resembling the wing structure in Spilosoma ; in the latter, how- 

 ever, the second marginal arises on the interior side of the post-apical. 



Head small, rather sunken on thorax, hairy, and with ocelli. Face narrow 

 and hairy. Eyes small. Antennae in the r^ shortly pectinated, in the ^ 

 serrated and sometimes slightly pectinated. Labial jjalpi porrected, hairy 

 and exceeding the clypeus by about one-half their length; the third joint 

 subacuate, nearly or quite as long as the second joint. Tougufe with slender 

 filaments, as long as the anterior coxae. 



Body thick. Tliorax covered with thick hair. Patagia rather large, more 

 or less overarching the vertex. Breast rather hairy ; legs rather stout, with 

 all the femora hairy ; anterior tibiae longer than last joint of tarsus, with 

 tibial spur concealed, the posterior tibiae having four moderate spurs. 



[Nov. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 527 



Table of Species. 



I. Fore wings black, brown or whitish. 



"•'" Fore wings spotted, not striped. 



a. Fore wings brown. 



Abdomen spotted above with black ; hind wings with 



blue black spots, Americana. 



Abdomen with disk black ; hind wings black-band- 

 ed, Partlienos. 



b. Fore wings black or blackish. 



Fore wings with a few spots, Placentia. 



" with many spots, Virginalis. 



c. Fore wings whitish or flesh-colored. 



Hind wings cinnabar red ; fore wings with large brown 



spots, Caja. 



' ' saffron-colored, Dahurica. 



" flesh-colored or pinkish, Dione. 



** Fore wings striped, Quenselii. 



Fore wings with five stripes, Virgo. 

 " with three stripes ; 



Fore wings with the apical veins pale, Virguncula. 

 " with the apical veins dark. 



Fore wings with a furcate apical stripe, N a i s . 



' ' with a crucial subtenninal stripe, P h y 1 1 i r a . 



Fore wings with two stripes, f e r v id a . 



***Fore wings with a spot and a stripe. hyperborea. 



II. Fore wings fulvous or yellow, black spotted. 



Hind wings somewhat cinereous, g elida . 



Mr. Walker regards Caja as common to Europe and the United States, and 

 says that "the white markings in the American species sometimes overspread 

 nearly the whole surface of the wing, and in other cases they entirely disap- 

 pear. The black spots on the hind wings are almost equally variable." The 

 description below is drawn from the European species. 



Fore wings ivith a long, narrow costal cell. 



*A. Caja, Linn. — Umber brown. Patagia tipped with red. Fore wings 

 very pale yellowish white at the base, with four umber brown spots ; with 

 two pale yellowish white streaks on the costa over the disk and au irregular 

 crucial mark of the same hue in apical portion of the wing, consisting of a 

 band from the costa to the inner angle, where there is a small brown dot, 

 crossed by a broad line from near the tip, beneath which it is angulated, to 

 the middle of the inner margin and connected sometimes by a streak along 

 the fold with the basal patch. Hind wings red, with three spots in the mid- 

 dle of the wing, one on the discal vein ; the origin of medio-posterior and 

 middle of submedian and three along the hinder margin all dark bluish black. 

 Abdomen red, with black dorsal spots. 



California, West coast of America. 



*A. Dahurica, Boisd. — Flesh-colored. Occiput with three black stripes 

 from the body and with numerous, black intercostal spots on the anterior 

 wings. Posterior wings saffron-colored, with the base and cilia yellow, spotted 

 with black. 



California. 



*A. Quenselii, Geyer.— Zutr. Samm. Ex. Sch., 14, 424, f. 847, 8, 

 Female. Black. Thorax with four testaceous stripes. Abdomen with two 

 testaceous stripes. Fore wings with luteous stripes furcate and confluent 



1S60.] 




528 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



toward the tip of the -n-ings. Posterior wing with testaceous stripes connected 

 toward the tip. 

 Labrador. 



*A. gel id a, Moochler, Ent. Zeit. Stell., ix. 17, 3, 174. Black. Thorax 

 with two yellow stripes. Abdomen jellow on the sides, spotted with black. 

 Fore wings somewhat yellowish, with angular black spots. Posterior some- 

 what cinereous. 



Labrador. 



With two distinct marginal nervules from the disk. 



A. Virgo, Hiibner. — Thorax bufF-colored, sometimes tinged with reddisli. 

 with two black spots, one on each patagium ; disk with an oval black stripe, 

 and each of the tegulse striped broadly with black. Fore wings black, with 

 the margins, the veins and their branches, a broad line along the fold, a 

 stripe from the origin of the subcosto-inferior nervule angularly furcate be- 

 neath the median vein, an oblique stripe near the tip of the wing, with twi) 

 spots on the costa behind it, and one on the disk, all buflf-colored, sometimes 

 tinted faintly with reddish. Hind wings red, spotted with large black spots. 

 Abdomen red, with a black macular band on the dorsum. 



New York, iS^ova Scotia. Dlinois, Mr. Kennicott. 



With two distinct marginal nervules. Labial palpi little exceeding the clypeus. 



A. D i o n e , Drury. — Reddish white or flesh-colored. Thorax with two 

 black stripes in front, one on each side at the base of the wings, with three of 

 the same hue on the disk, one central and one on each tegulje. Fore wings 

 with a black stripe along the submedian vein and black cuneiform spots on 

 the disk and between the nervules. Hind wings white or flesh-colored, with 

 black spots and sometimes with yellow along the margins. Abdomen spotted 

 with black. 



N. Y., Ga. Mass., Mr. Scudder. 111., Mr. Kennicott. 



*A. Virguncula, Kirby. — Black. Thorax bufi-colored, with five black- 

 spots. Fore wings with the margins, the vein.s and the branches reddish bufi'- 

 colored. Hind wings luteous, spotted with large black spots. Abdomen 

 reddish buflf, with a macular band of triangular spots above. 

 . New York, Canada. 



* A. N a i s , Drury. — Thorax white, with two black spots in front and three 

 black stripes. Fore wings black, with three white stripes, the second furcate, 

 and oblique, subapical white bands. Sometimes the oblique bands are want- 

 ing, as likewise some of the stripes. The veins sometimes testaceous. Hind 

 wings yellowish or red, more or less varied with black. Abdomen white, 

 with a broad black stripe ; sometimes nearly wholly brown. 



Mass. 



A. Phylira, Drury. — Thorax buflf-col»red, with a short black stripe on 

 each patagium, a broad stripe on the disk, one on each tegulse and a short 

 one on the sides at the base of the wings of the same hue. Fore wings black, 

 with a buflf-colored stripe along the. costa, deflected at the apical third of the 

 wing to the inner angle, a broad stripe of the same hue beneath the median 

 vein extended to the hinder margin and turned at an acute angle toward the 

 costa. The median stripe is likewise produced along the fold, joining the de- 

 flected portion of the costal stripe at the inner angle. Inner margin buff^- 

 colored. Hind wings bright red in the 9i often yellowish red in the ^, and 

 with large black spots in the former, which are frequently almost obsolete in 

 the latter. Abdomen red, black above. 



111., Mich., Mass., Penn., Texas. Col. of Capt. Pope. Smithsonian Insti- 

 tution. 



[Nov, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 529 



*A. Placentia, Abbott and Smith. — Blackish brown. Fore wings with 

 a dot or three pale testaceous spots. Hind wings red, with the margin and 

 several submarginal spots blackish brown. Abdomen above red, with dorsal 

 spots and the tip blackish brown, 



Greorgia. 



*A. virginalis, Boisd. — Abdomen above fulvous, banded with black, 

 beneath black. Fore wings black, with about twenty yellowish white spots. 

 Hind wings fulvous, with black bands. 



California. 



*A. hyperborea. Eyprepia hyperboreiis, Curtis, Ap. Ross. Nar. 2d Voy. 

 Ixxi. 17. — 3Iale. Chestnut brown. Fore wings with costal spot and inter- 

 rupted streak behind isable yellow. Hind wings with a brown band, a spot 

 and the margin ochreous. 



Arctic America. 



*A. Americana, Harris. — " Fore wings brown, with several spots and 

 broad winding lines of white. Hind wings ochre-yellow, with five or. six 

 round blue-black spots, three larger than the others. Thorax brown and 

 woolly. Patagia edged with white before and with crimson behind. Outer 

 edges of tegulae white. Abdomen ochre-yellow, with four black sjjots in the 

 middle above." 



Trenton Falls, N. Y.; Lake Superior. 



Fore wings with a single marginal nervule from the cell and another beyond the 

 origin of the subcosto-inferior nervule. 



A. Parthenos, Harris. Var. ? — xl. ^Tneacana, Walker, 607 ? — Thorax 

 reddish brown. Vertex and the ends of patagia bright red. Thorax banded 

 in front and along the tegulffi with pale yellow. Fore wings rather dark yel- 

 lowish brown, with two rows of pale yellow, separated spots, one along the 

 Gosta with three nearly joining over subcostal nervules, and one along the 

 fold with a stripe at the base of it. Along the hinder margin is an indistinct 

 row of pale yellow spots, those in the middle nearly obsolete. Hind wings 

 yellow, with a broad black band in the middle furcate externally and a sub- 

 terminal undulating one of the same hue, with the nervules between the 

 bands touched with black. Abdomen, disk black, the tip somewhat orange 

 yellow, beneath reddish. 



Mass. Mr. Scudder. British America. 



*A. fervida, Walker, 612. — Blackish brown. Abdominal segments 

 with bright red dorsal bands. Fore wings with a white fringe along the outer 

 border ; two pale testaceous streaks, one extending in the disk from the base 

 to half the length, the other short, oblique, about two-thirds of the length, ex- 

 tending from near the fore border into the disk ; under side red, with brown 

 borders. Hind wings bright red, with very broad blackish brown borders, 

 which in their narrowest part are accompanied by a slender brown band ; 

 under side like the upper side, but without the band. Body 6 lines long ; 

 wings 16 lines. 



Guatemala. 



ECTTPIA. 



Fore wings about one-third longer than the hind wings, with two subcosto- 

 marginal branches from the cell, the second forming a costal cell with the sub- 

 costal by a branch which joins it at the origin of the post-apical. The apical 

 nervule with a moderate apical nervulet. The subcosto-inferior nervule and 

 the discal vein arise on a short common stalk, the latter angulated. The 

 median vein is 4-branched, the posterior nervule being remote from the 

 others, which are aggregated. The neuration of the hind wings, which are 



I860.] 




530 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



as broad as the anterior pair, is as usual in the family, except that the costal 

 and subcostal veins show a tendency to separate at the base. 



Head rather small, sunken, subtufted between the antennae ; without ocelli. 

 Face moderately broad, hairy, retreating. Eyes rather small. Antennae 

 shortly pectinated in the rj', serrated in the $ ( ? ) Labial palpi rather 

 slender, subascending, exceeding somewhat the clypeus, slightly hairy be- 

 neath, with the second joint slightly larger than the basal, and the terminal 

 joint short, globose. Tongue rudimentary. 



Thorax smooth, with decumbent hair. Patagia moderate. Abdomen want- 

 ing. Legs smooth ; fore tibiae nearly as long as the femora ; hind legs want- 

 iny. The specimens described are much mutilated. 



A. bivittata . — White. Labial palpi blackish, white beneath. Thorax 

 with two lateral black stripes, margined externally by another, luteous. Fore 

 wings with a few black spots and short black streaks. On the discal vein are 

 two spots and another oh the origin of the medio-posterior nervule. At ,,the 

 extreme base, almost on the costa, are one or two dots and the submedian 

 veio is tipped on its end with black. Sometimes a short black stripe in the 

 fold at the base and a few black spots near the tip of the wing. Hind wings 

 without spots. Tarsi black. 



Imago on wing April 21st. Texas. Capt. Pope's collection. Smithsonian 

 Institution. 



Htpantria, Harris. 



Mr. Walker does not recognize this genus, but refers the species Dr. Harris 

 placed in it to Euproctis of Hiibner. The structure of E. auriflua does 

 not, however, authorize this step. In it the antennae are deeply pectinated 

 in the (^, the palpi are differently formed, the tongue more rudimentary, the 

 costal and subcostal veins in the hind wings distinct to the base, although 

 connected in the middle of the cell by an intercostal branch, and in the fore 

 wings the second subcosto-marginal nervule arises between the post-apical 

 and apical nervulet. The head is without ocelli and the structure of the legs 

 in auriflua differs from that in t e x t o r . A consideration of these differ- 

 ences and the structural agreement of t e x t o r with other genera of the 

 family Arctiidae, the habits and structure of the larva can leave no doubt, I 

 think, respecting its true position and the naturalness of the genus. 



The structure of the fore and hind wings, like that in the genus Spilo- 

 soma. 



Head moderate, somewhat sunken and woolly ; with ocelli. Face tapering 

 and vertical. Eyes moderately large. Antennae shortly pectinated in the ^. 

 serrated in the $ • Labial palpi rather hairy beneath, scarcely extending be- 

 yond the clypeus ; second joint very short, and the terminal joint nearly rudi- 

 mental. Tongue nearly as long as the anterior coxae, filamentous. 



Body rather stout. Thorax woolly. Patagia not erected, rather broad and 

 flattened. Breast woolly ; abdomen rather smooth. Legs with the femora 

 woolly ; tibial spur of the fore legs long and curved : hind tibiae with a pair 

 of small apical spurs. 



Table of Species. 

 Abdomen white. 



Fore wings without spots. tester. 



Fore wings spotted with black, C u n e a . 



Abdomen luteous. 



Fore wings black in greater part, with white veins, Echo. 



H. text or, Harris. — Pure white, immaculate. Antennae bla'kish brown. 

 Palpi blackish. The fore coxae and femora luteous. 

 Ga., Mass., Penn. 



[Nor. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 531 



H. C u n e a , Drary. — White. Thorax usually unspotted, sometimes with 

 a. few black spots. Antennse blackish brown. Fore wings with highly varia- 

 ble markings ; usually with numerous black spots, sometimes with but few of 

 them. Hind wings without spots. Abdomen white, with three rows of 

 minute black spots, frequently inconspicuous. The fore coxse and femora 

 luteous ; tarsi blackish. 



Ga., Mass., Penn. 



H. Echo, Ab. & Sm. — White. Fore wings mostly black with white veins 

 and spotted with black. Abdomen luteous, spotted with black. 



Dr. Fitch in his 3d Report describes two other specimens which are referred 

 to this genus. 



Spilosoma, Stephens. 



Fore wings with a single marginal nervule from the cell and another inte- 

 rior to the origin of the post-apical nervule ; apical nervule with a nervulet 

 to the costa near the tip. The subcosto-inferior and discal vein, which is 

 angulated, arise at a common point. Median veiu 4-branched, with the pos- 

 terior nervule remote from the others. 



Hind wings about equal to the length of the abdomen, with the wing struc- 

 ture common to the family. 



Head moderate, rather woolly, somewhat sunken and sometimes depressed • 

 with ocelli. Face moderately broad, tapering. Eyes moderately large. An- 

 tennse shortly pectinated in the (^, serrated in the 9 > sometimes simple. 

 Labial palpi more or less exceeding the clypeus, subascendent, hairy beneath ; 

 the first and second joints usually short, sometimes the joints nearly equal : 

 the first joint squamous and ovate or subconical. Tongue slender and as long 

 as the anterior coxae. 



Body rather stout. Thorax woolly. Patagia usually flattened, sometimes 

 erected and somewhat trapezoidal. Breast woolly. Abdomen rather smooth. 

 Legs downy or hairy ; tibial spur of fore legs long and curved ; hind tibise 

 with two pairs of spurs near the tip, sometimes minute. 



Table of Species. 



Wings white. 

 Abdomen with black spots. 



Fore wings with many black spots, A ere a . 



Fore wings with a single discal dot, Virginica. 



Abdomen not spotted. 



Fore wings with oblique, imperfect bands of brownish 



dots, u g r u a . 



Wings fulvous, Isabella. 



S. Isabella, Ab. & Sm. — Fulvous, or brownish ochreous, sometimes 

 slightly tinged with reddish. Fore wings with a black spot on the disk and a 

 subterminal of the same hue, sometimes faintly banded. Hind wings roseate 

 or yellowish tinged with roseate, with two discal black spots and four of the 

 same hue along the hinder margin. Abdomen with three rows of black spots. 

 Fore femora crimson internally ; tibiae and tarsi black. 



This insect usually regarded as belonging to the genus Arctia, certainly 

 cannot be included in it, in consequence of structural differences. 



S. acrea, Dmry. — White. Antennse black. Fore wings dotted with 

 black spots, those along the costae being the largest. Hind wings white in the 

 9 , and orange yellow in the rj', spotted with black. Abdomen orange yel- 

 low above, with the tip white, and with three rows of black spots. 



S. Virginica, Fabr. — White. Antennae blackish brown, with white 

 1860 ] 




532 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



tomentum. Labial palpi blackish, beueatb yellowish. Wings with a discal 

 black dot or dots, sometimes wanting ; under surface of hind j^air always with 

 a black discal spot. Abdomen luteous above, with three rows of black spots. 

 The anterior coxse and femora luteous, the femora with a black spot. 



*S. congrua. Walker, 669. — White. Tarsi with black bands. Fore 

 ooxfe and fore femora luteous, with black spots on the inner side ; fore tibisB 

 striped with black on the inner side. 



Male. — Head and fore part of the tborax with, a slight testaceous tinge. 

 Fore wings with four oblique, very imperfect and irregular bands, composed 

 of pale brown dots. Body 6-7 lines ; wings 16-20 lines. 



Georgia. 



* S. Jussisefe. — Arctia Jussitea, Poey, Cent. Lep. Cuba. S. Jussicecr, 

 Walker, 670. Wings white. The fore wings above and the hind wings be- 

 neath with a black point in the middle. Anterior femora and the abdomen 

 at the sides fulvous. Abdomen with quintuple series of points. 



Cuba. Larva feeds on the leaves of Jussicea erecta. 



EUCH.3JTES, Harris. 



Fore wings rather broad, trigonate. The subcostal vein gives rise to two 

 marginal nervules from the posterior part of the disk, and between the second 

 marginal nervule and the apical is formed a short, costal cell. The post-apical 

 nervule arises midway between the costal cell and apical nervulet. The discal 

 vein which is angulated and the subcosto inferior are given off from a com- 

 mon point. The'median vein is 4-branched, the posterior nervule moderately 

 remote from the penultimate. Hind wings as broad as the fore wings, with 

 the neuration common to the family. 



Head moderate, depressed ; with ocelli. Face inclined. Eyes small. An- 

 tennje slightly pectinated in the cT, serrated in the $ . Labial palpi rather 

 stout and ascending on the face nearly to the base of the antennse ; basal and 

 middle joints nearly equal ; terminal short, three or four times less long than 

 the middle joint. Tongue rather longer than the anterior coxae. 



Body stout. Thorax rather woolly. Breast woolly ; abdomen smooth. Legs 

 with hairy femora ; anterior tibiae nearly as long as anterior tarsi, internal 

 spur concealed and half as long as the tibiae ; hind tibiae with two pairs of 

 spurs. 



E. Egle,* Drury. — Spilosoma Egle, West., Walk. Bluish cinereous. Oc- 

 ciput with a narrow luteous line. Abdomen whitish beneath, above dark yel- 

 low with a dorsal and lateral row of black spots. Fore coxae woolly and 

 touched at the sides with luteous. 



Mass., Samuel H. Scudder, Esq. New York, Mr. Akhurst. 



The following insect differs from the Massachusetts specimen very curious- 

 Iv and I am at a loss how to reconcile the differences between them. The 

 fore wings correspond more nearly to Dr. Harris' description than the speci- 

 men from his own State, but the palpi do not agree with those of the species 

 he described. The larva of E. E g 1 e is common enough in this vicinity, but 

 I have never met with the perfect insect, nor have I been successful in various 

 attempts to carry it through its transformations. 



In the Texan specimens the costal cell of the fore wings is longer and nar- 

 rower than in the foregoing, and sometimes gives rise to tlie post-apical ner- 

 vule. The head is perfectly smooth ; the palpi are porrected, short; scarcely ex- 

 ceeding the clypeus ; rather hairy towards the base beneath; the basal and 

 middle joints nearly equal ; terminal joint globular, and one-half as long as 

 the middle. 



The body is rather slender. Thorax and breast perfectly smooth. Legs 

 smooth ; anterior ti'bije scarcely longer than the basal joint of the anterior 



[Nov. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 533 



tarsi, and terminating in front in a rather long, curved spire, with the in- 

 ternal spur as long as the tibiae. 



Var.f E. Eglenensis . — Bluish cinereous. Palpi bright reddish at the 

 base, with dark cinereous tips. The occiput and post-orbits are red orange. 

 The external edge of the fore wings is pale luteous. The abdomen above is 

 bright red orange, with a dorsal row of small black spots and one on each 

 side ; beneath cinereous. The thorax beneath and the anterior coxae are 

 tinged with red orange. 



The imago is on wing dixring the month of August. 



Texas. Capt. Pope's collection. Smithsonian institution. 



Halesidota, Hvibner. Lophocampa, Harris. 



Fore wings narrow ; the subcostal vein with two marginal nervales from 

 the disk, with an apical nervulet near the tip, midway between the origin of 

 which and that of the subcosto-inferior nervule arises the post-apical. Median 

 vein 4-branched, the posterior nervule moderately i-emote from the penulti- 

 mate. Hind wings, neuration arctiaeform. 



Head moderate, short, rather woolly ; with ocelli. Face tapering, moder- 

 ately broad. Eyes rather large. Antennae slightly pectinated in the {^, ser- 

 rated in the 9 • Labial palpi stout, porrected, exceeding the clypeus some- 

 what, and squamose ; the basal and middle joint about equal ; terminal 

 joint conical, very minute. Tongue as long as the thorax beneath. 



Body stout. Thorax smooth, with decumbent hair. Patagia erected 

 moderately large. Breast slightly hairy ; abdomen smooth. Legs stout and 

 smooth ; tlie tibial spur of the fore legs rather long, concealed ; hind tibije 

 with four moderate spurs. 



Table of Species. 

 Fore wings handed. 



Fore wings with four bands. 



' ' with bands black-bordered, tessellaris. 



with bands of spots, ( an n u 1 i f a s c i a . 



(macula ta. 

 Fore wings with two bands, f u 1 v o - f 1 a v a . 



Fore winys not banded. 



Fore wings spotted or sprinkled with dots. 

 Abdomen luteous or yellowish. 



Thorax with two brown stripes, C ary e a . 



Thorax with six white luteous bordered spots, p a 1 p a 1 i s . 

 Fore wings with indistinct hyaline spots. 



Thorax with three white stripes, b i c o 1 o r . 



Fore wings streaked with white. 



Abdomen crimson, tip black, strigosa. 



Fore wings mottled with grayish. 



Abdomen red, banded with black, cingulata. 



Fore wings not spotted nor striped, insula "t a. 



*H. Caryse, Harris, Ins. Mass., 2d ed., 278.— Pale oclire yellow. Thorax 

 with the tegulae edged with light brown internally. Fore wings thickly and 

 finely sprinkled with little brown dots and with two oblique brownish streaks 

 passing backwards from the costa, with three rows of white semi-transparent 

 spots, parallel to the hinder margin. Hind wings very thin, semi-transparent, 

 and without spots. 



*H. annulifascia, Walker, 734. — Pale testaceous. Proboscis and an- 

 tennae tawny. Thorax with two tawny stripes, which converge hindward. 

 Fore wings with tawny punctures, which are most numerous and partly con- 

 1860.] 36 




534 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OE 



fluent on the disk beyond the middle, and with four oblique bands of whitish 

 tawny-bordered spots ; veins tawny. Hind wings whitish, with a slight testa- 

 ceous tinge. 

 H. Caryffi? 



H. tessellaris, Ab. & Sm. — Pale ochreous yellow. Antennae and 

 labial palpi pale orange yellow, the terminal joint of the latter blackish. 

 Tegulse edged internally with bluish green and with a blackish dot on the mid- 

 dle of each in front. Abdomen pale orange yellow above. Fore wings with 

 dusky bands edged on each side with a delicate, crenated blackish line, one 

 at the base furcate above subcostal vein, one across the middle of the disk, 

 one on discal vein extended to the median vein, one across the nervules, some- 

 times interrupted in the middle, and one along the hinder margin. Hind 

 wings paler than the fore wings. 



*H. fulvo-flava. Walker, 733. — Testaceous, paler beneath. Thorax 

 with two tawny stripes, which converge behind, and two tawny spots in front 

 between the stripes. Femora and tibije hairy ; fore femora and tibiae tawny 

 above. Fore wings yellow, with a tawny spot at the base, with two oblique, 

 tawny bands, with darker borders ; these bands are partly connected, and the 

 inner one is especially irregular and ramose, being forked in front and dilated 

 in the disk toward the base, and emitting a branch to each border. Hind 

 wings whitish, with a slight testaceous tinge. 



H. maculata? 



Nova Scotia, United States. 



*H. maculata, Harris, 279. — Pale ochre yellow. Fore wings with large, 

 irregular, pale brown spots, arranged almost in transverse bands. 

 Mass. 



H. bicolor, Walker. — Male. Reddish tawny. Head white. Antenna 

 whitish above. Thorax with three white stripes. Breast white. Fore 

 femora and tibiae thickly clothed with white hairs. Fore wings testaceous, 

 with indistinct hyaline spots. Hind wings white. 



Mr. Walker says the specimen from which this description was drawn, is 

 injured, and that it may be a variety ofH. anulifascia. 



Mexico. 



*H. insulata. Walker. — Female. Pale testaceous, paler beneath. Head 

 with a pale luteous band behind the antennae. Palpi blackish above toward 

 the tips. Antennae black, pale luteous at the base. Abdomen above luteous. 

 Legs blackish ; coxae luteous. Hind wings a little paler than the fore wings. 

 Abdomen with rows of black dots ; femora blackish above, whitish testaceous 

 beneath. 



Male. — Abdomen unspotted. Femora luteous, with black tips ; fore femora 

 blackish above, except toward the base. 



Jamaica. 



Variety. — Cream color. Palpi black above and towards the tips. Antennae 

 black, cream color at the base. Abdomen luteous above, with three rows of 

 black dots. Fore legs blackish above ; middle tibiae and tips of the posterior 

 femora and of the hind tibiae gray. 



St. Domingo, S. America. 



*H. palpalis. Walker. — Male. Deep brown. Vertex and front whitish, 

 with two brown spots. Palpi with a testaceous band near the tips. Antennae 

 black. Thorax with six white luteous-bordered spots, two in front, and two 

 on each side by the wings, the hind pair elongated. Breast, abdomen and 

 legs luteous. Fore tibiae and tarsi brown, the former and the fore metatarsus 

 each with a broad white band ; posterior tibiae and tarsi with brown bands. 

 Fore wings with four clusters of white and testaceous spots, one at the base, 



[Nov. 




I • 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 535 



one on eacli border before the middle, and the largest one extending hind- 

 ward from the tip to the inner angle ; the testaceous spots are smaller and 

 less numerous than the white spots which mostly enclose them. Hind wings 

 luteous. 



Jamaica. 



*H. strigosa, Walker. — Head and thorax brown above. Head whitish 

 about the eyes, and with a whitish band on the vertex. Palpi brown, whitish 

 beneath and toward the tips. Antennae whitish, with two brown bands. Thorax 

 with four whitish stripes ; fore part bordered with reddish whitf , and with 

 one stripe of the same color. Abdomen crimson, black at the tip, and with 

 a row of black spots along each side ; under side whitish, with four rows of 

 black spots. Legs whitish ; femora and tibife striped with brown ; tibire 

 striped with red. Fore wings brown, with very numerous whitish streaks. 

 Hind wings almost limpid, with more or less broad brownish borders. 



St. Domingo. 



*H. cingulata, Walker, 1710. — Red. Abdomen with black bands, 

 which are interrupted toward the base. Fore wings thickly mottled with in- 

 distinct gray marks. Hind wings a little paler than the fore wings. 



Male. — Palpi with brown tips. 



Female. — Palpi with black tips. Disk of the thorax slightly brownish. 



Jamaica and South America. 



Htpekcompa, Stephens. 



Fore wings usually with two subcosto-marginal nervules from the disk and 

 and a costal cell formed by the second branch, sometimes much contracted 

 and narrow and placed above the discal vein or exterior to the disk ; in this 

 case there is but one marginal nervule from the disk. The post-apical nervule 

 arises either about midway between the end of the costal cell and the apical 

 nervulet or from the end uf the cell. The subcosto-inferior and discal arise 

 at a common point, the latter curved. Median vein 4 branched, the posterior 

 nervule remote from the penultimate branch. Hind wings broader than the 

 fore wings ; neuratiou arctiseform, the subcostal becoming furcate exterior to 

 the origin of the discal vein. 



Head moderate, free, smooth ; with ocelli. Face and vertex narrow. Eyes 

 rather large and prominent. Anteimre slender, filiform and ciliated in both 

 sexes. Labial palpi somewhat exceeding the clypeus, rather porrected but 

 subascending, smooth and toward the base pilose ; the middle and basal joint 

 nearly equal, the terminal joint quite short and ovate. Tongue as long or 

 nearly as long as the thorax beneath. 



Body slender. Thorax smooth. Patagia cylindrical or revolute, scarcely 

 ascending above the vertex and pilose. Breast and abdomen smooth. Legs 

 rather slender ; the tibial spur of the anterior concealed ; hind tibiae with four 

 moderate spurs, longer than the hind femora. 



Table of Species. 

 Hind wings white. 



( Fore wings with white spots, Var. Lecontei. 



( Fore wings with two browu stripes and a 



subterminal band, militaris. 



Fore wings with a white stripe, 



' ' with two white spots, c o n t i g u a . 



' ' with a white subapical band, confinis. 



Fore wings with the costa yellowish or 



brownish, fulvicosta. 



Hind wings luteous. 



Fore wings brown, with white spots and 



stripes, C 1 y m e n e . 



Fore wings yellowish, margined with 



brown, interrupto-marginata 



I860.] 




536 PROCEEDINGS OE THE ACADEMY OF 



Fore wings with a veri/ narrow subcostal cell exterior to the diaJc, giving rise at its 

 end to the second marginal and post-apical nervules. 

 H. m i 1 i t a r i s , Harris. —White. Head, patagia and femora buflf yellow. 

 Thorax and abdomen with a dorsal brown stripe. Fore wings very variable 

 in their markings, usually with a brown stripe along the costa from the base 

 not extended to the tip, and one along the inner margin with an oblique band 

 extended from it near the inner angle to the tip of the wing ; hind margin 

 from the tip to beyond the middle with a brown stripe. Hind wings without 

 spots. 



Variety. H. Lecontei, Boisd. — The fore wings are brown, spotted with 

 white, and the hind wings sometimes with a brown dot. 



H. interrupto-marginat a, De Beau v., vid. Proceedings, May, 1860, 

 p. 161. E. Comma, Walker, p. 652. 



*H. confinis, Walker. — White. Head, prothorax, fore coxae and ab- 

 domen at the base luteous. Palpi with black tips. Antenna black. Thorax 

 and abdomen with a brown stripe. Fore wings brown, with a discal, slightly 

 angular white stripe, and an elongate-triangular oblique siibapical white 

 band. 



* H. c o n t i g u a . — White. Head, prothorax and fore coxae luteous. Palpi 

 black, luteous at the base. Antenna? black. Thorax and abdomen with a 

 brown stripe. Fore wings brown, with a white discal stripe, which widens 

 from the base to a little beyond the middle, and with two large subapical 

 white spots. Hind wings with a small brown spot near the hind border. 



*H. Clymene, Esper. — Luteous. Antennae black. Palpi with bkck 

 tips. Prothorax with two brown dots. Thorax with a white disk and a single 

 brown stripe. Abdomen most frequently with dorsal brown spots. Fore 

 wings brown, with a white angulated stripe at the base, three white spots 

 before and a divided subapical one behind. Hind wings frequently with two 

 posterior brown spots. 



H. fulvi costa. — White. Palpi yellow orange, tips blackish. Head, 

 prothorax, the anterior edge of the fore wings, especially beneath, yellow 

 orange ; sometimes the costa of the fore wings is dark brownish. Breast and 

 legs yellow orange, the middle and fore tibiae and tarsi blackish. Abdomen 

 tipped with yellowish orange. 



Illinois. From Mr. Robt. Kennicott. 



Phkagmatobia, Stephens. 



The neuration of the fore and hind wings, (P. fuliginosa), like that in 

 Spilosoma. Wings sometuhat diaphanous. 



Head rather small, hairy, sunken ; with ocelli. Face rather broad. Eyes 

 small. Antennae ciliated, in the i^' serrated, in the 9 simple. Labial palpi 

 short, slightly exceeding the clypeus, very hairy ; the basal and middle joints 

 about equal and the latter thickened ; terminal joint short, ovate and obtuse. 

 Tongue not more than one-half as long as anterior coxae. 



Body thick. Thorax with long hair. Patagia moderate, erected and over- 

 lapping the mesothorax. Breast hairy ; abdomen smooth. Legs with hairy 

 femora ; tibial spur of the anterior concealed ; the posterior tibiae with four 

 spurs. 



*P. vagans, Boisd. — Dark gray or grayish luteous. Fore wings im- 

 maculate. Hind wings black ; ciliae grayish luteous. Beneath the wings are 

 cinereous with a black lunule. 



North California. 



*P. assimilans. Walker. — Male. Red. Antennae testaceous. Thorax 



[Not. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 537 



with brown hairs. Wings red ; veins darker. Fore wings slightly brown 

 along the costa and elsewhere, indisinctly sprinlded with pale brown, with 

 two blackish dots, one at the base of the anterior inferior veins, the other be- 

 tween the first and the costa. Hind wings brighter red, with three black 

 dots, two in the disk, and one near the hind border towards the inner angle. 

 Variet'/. — Fore wings almost wholly brown. Hind wings with a broad, 

 blackish submarginal stripe. 



*P. albicosta. Walker. — Blackish brown. Antennae black. Thorax 

 in front with a white band, which is most apparent on each side. Fore coxa 

 with red stripes. Costa of the fore wings white. 



Mz^e.— Abdomen above with red, half interrupted bands ; tip thickly tufted 

 with white hairs. 



Female. — Abdomen above bright red, with black dorsal dots ; tips white ? 



Mexico. 



*P. fuliginosa, Stephens. — Fore wings reddish fuliginous or dark red- 

 dish brown, with a black spot beyond the middle. Hind wings black or dull 

 pink, with hind margin black ; cilia pink. Abdomen with three rows of black 

 spots. The fore femora bright pink. 



St. Martin's Falls, Albany River, Hudson's Bay and Europe. 



LITHOSHDiE and GLAUCOPIDID.E. 

 Ltcomorpha, Harris. 



Wings narrow. Fore wings nearlj' fusiform. Near the posterior end of the 

 disk the subcostal vein gives rise to two marginal nervules and two nearly 

 equidistant exterior to the disk. Without post-apical nervule. The subcosto- 

 inferior nervule and the discal arise on a (.ommon stalk, the latter angulated 

 in the middle and receiving the discal fold. The median vein is 4 branched, 

 the posterior arising at a point opposite the middle of the space between the 

 first and second marginal nervules. Hind wings without costal vein. Sub- 

 costal bifid near the tip. the lower branch giving rise to an oblique discal. 

 Median vein 3-branched, the superior nervule receiving the discal fold. 



Head smooth, free, without ocelli. Face rounded. Eyes moderate. An- 

 tennae a little shorter than the body, biserrated or very minutely pectinated. 

 Palpi short, little exceeding the clypeus, cylindric, porrected : the basal joint 

 long, nearly equal to the front : the middle and terminal joints equal, very 

 short and ovate. Tongue a little longer than the thorax beneath. 



Body slender, nearly cylindrical, not metallic. Patagia scale- like. Hind 

 wings equal in length to the body. Legs rather slender ; fore tibiae with a 

 short concealed tibial spur; hind tibiae with one middle spur and two moder- 

 ate apical spurs. 



L. Pholus, Fahr.— Bluish black. The tegulae and the basal fourth of 

 the wings luteous. 



Nova Scotia, Mass., Penn. 



Ctenucha, Kirby. 



Wings broad, or narrow, elongate-trigonate. Fore wings with the subcostal 

 vein giving rise near the posterior end of the disk to a single marginal nervule, 

 and another exterior to the disk and nearer to it than to the post-apical ner- 

 vule, which is given oil' near the apical nervulet. The subcosto-inferior ner- 

 vule and discal branch from a common stalk, the latter straight and the discal 

 fold received by the medio-superior nervule. The median vein 4-branched. 

 the posterior much behind the marginal branch, and rather remote from the 

 penultimate. Hind wings without costal vein ; subcostal bifid, with the dis- 

 cal given off from the fork and receiving the discal fold at its angle. Median 



I860.] 




538 PROCEEDINGS OF THK ACADEMY OP 



vein 4-branched, with the posterior remote from the other branches, which 

 are aggregated. 



Head moderate, free, neck distinct, slightly hairy above : with ocelli. Face 

 smooth, rather narrow. Eyes moderately large, prominent. Antennae about 

 one-half as long as the body, deeply pectinated in the rj, slightly pectinated 

 in the Q . Palpi porrect, exceeding the front somewhat, squamose ; basal 

 joint slightly hairy ; the basal and middle joint nearly equal ; the terminal 

 shorter, acuminated. Tongue as long or nearly as long as the thorax 

 beneath. 



Body cylindrical, slender, more or less metallic. Patagia scale-like. Hind 

 wings equal to the body in length. Abdomen with a lateral tubercle on the 

 basal segment. Legs rather slender ; fore tibiae with a short tibial spur ; hind 

 tibiae with four moderately long spurs. 



Table of Species. 

 Head above oranr/e yellow. 



Fore wings with costa luteous. 



Cilia white ; wings broad, Latreillana. 



Cilia blackish ; wings narrow, fulvicollis. 



Head red or crimson. 



Fore wings with four yellowish white stripes, v e n o s a . 



Fore wings with a white costal and discal stripe, ruficeps. 



Fore wings without stripes. 



Wings blackish ; fringes white, rubriceps. 



Wings broad; palpi porrect ; post-apical nervule interior to apical nervulet. 



C. Latreillana, Kirby. — Dark brown or blackish brown. Palpi pale 

 orange, tips blackish. Face dark blue. Head above, i^rothorax beneath and 

 the tegulse in front pale orange. Thorax and abdomen dark metallic blue. 

 Wings with whitish cilia, except in the middle. The fore wings in the 9 

 have the extreme costa luteous. 



Wings moderately broad ; antenna moderately pectinated. 



* C. rubriceps. Walker. — Dark brown, black. Head and palpi towards 

 the base clothed with bright red hairs. Wings fringed with white. Fore 

 wings with blackish veins. Hind wings bluish black. Abdomen of the (^ 

 sericeous green above. 



New Grenada. 



Wings moderately broad ; post-apical nervule interior to apical nervulet. 



C. V e n s a , Walker. — Dark brown, black beneath. Head above, protho- 

 rax beneath, clotheci with bright red hairs in the (^, and with yellow hairs in 

 the 9 . Face dark blue. Palpi blackish, base bright red. Patagia and tegulae 

 in front striped with yellow, the latter likewise on the superior edge. Wings 

 fringed with white. Fore wings with four yellowisli white stripes ; the first 

 costal, second on the subcosto-inferior nervule, third on the median vein, ex- 

 tended to the two middle branches ; fourth on the submedian vein. Hind 

 wings and abdomeia of the rj^ dark bluish black, of the 9 blackish. 



Mexico, Texas. Capt. Pope's collection. Smithsonian Institution. 



*C. ruficeps. Walker. — Blue. Head above and thorax in front beneath 

 clothed with crimson hairs. Palpi black, with crimson hairs towards the 

 base. Thorax with a lappet on each side and a white spot on each shoulder. 

 Legs white beneath. Wings blackish brown, blue at the base. Fore wings 

 with a white costa and a white interrupted stripe extending from the base to 

 near two-thirds of the length in the disk. Hind wings with a white discal 

 stripe tapering from the base to half the length. 



Mexico. 



[Nov. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 539 



Wings long, narrow ; fore ivlngs opaque, post-apical exterior to apical nervulet ; 

 hind wings hyaline in the middle. Palpi curved. 



C. fulvicollis, Hiibner. — Glaucopis (Ctenucha) semidiaphana, Harris, 

 Cat. N. A. SpMn., 38, 4. Slate-colored or blackish, brown. Antennae bluish, 

 black. Palpi, basal joint ochreous, the other joints blackish. Head above, 

 patagia, prothorax beneath, tegulse in front and a stripe beneath the fore 

 wings ochreous or orange. Fore wings with a luteous stripe along the ex- 

 treme costa. Wings with, cilia of the general hue. Abdomen bluish black, 

 scarcely metallic. 



niinois. Mr. Kennicott. 



Aglaope, Latr., Boisd. 



Wings extremely narrow. Hind wings ovate-lanceolate, narrower than the 

 fore wings ; length much less than that of the body ; length of the fore wings 

 somewliat more than that of the body. The disk of fore wings closed by a 

 very faint, irregular vein, with two disco-centr il nervules; subcostal vein with 

 a single marginal nervule from the posterior end of the disk and with the 

 apical branch trijid near the tip of the wing or hijid with a long fork. Median 

 vein 4 branched, with the posterior scarcely remote from the penultimate. 

 Fold of the wing thickened from the base to the tip. Submediau with a short 

 fork at the base of the wing. Hind wings without costal nervure ; subcostal 

 biiid, with an oblique discal vein arising near the base of the lower branch, 

 and angulated above the medio-superior nervule, where it receives the discal 

 fold. Median vein 4-branched, with nervules nearly equidistant. 



Head rather small, tree, smooth ; with large ocelli. Face smooth, rounded, 

 rather narrow. Eyes rather small, scarcely prominent. Antennae with bases 

 approached, much shorter than the body, rather deeply pectinated in the ^, 

 less pectinated in the $ . Palpi very minute, filiform, drooping, with only 

 two distinct joints ; terminal joint acute. Tongue about as long as the thorax 

 beneath. 



Body extremely slender, cylindrical, not metallic. Patagia cylindrical, 

 minute. Abdomen without lateral tubercle, tufted at the tip and along the 

 sides. Legs extremely slender ; fore tibiae without tibial spur ; hind tibiae 

 with two very minute apical spurs. 



A. Americana, Boisd., GritF. An. Kingd. Lep. Procris Americana, 

 Boisd., S. G. Lep., i. pi. 16. f. 7 ; Guer. Icon. Reg. An. Ins., pi. 84, bis. f, 11. 

 Procri-: dispar, Har., Cat. P. Americana, Har., Cat. N. A. Sphin., p. 35. 

 Ctenucha Americana, Walker, 286. — Blue black. Prothorax above entirely 

 fulvous or orange. 



Mass., New York, Penn., Ga. 



Subcostal vein exterior to the disk, trijid ; apical branch with a long fork. 



A. coracina. — The specimens are imperfect and denuded. The entire 

 insect is black, without the orange colored prothorax of American a. 

 Texas. Capt. Pope's collection. From Smithsonian Institution. 



ACOLOITHCS. 



The following insect greatly resembles Americana in appearance and 

 almost exactly in ornamentation. It must, however, be very distinct from it. 

 The wings are extremely narrow. Hind wings broader than the fore wings, 

 less ovate than in Americana, and rounded at the interior basal angle ; 

 length rather more than that of the body. The disk of the fore wings is closed by 

 a rather faint, irregularly oblique vein, with one disco-central nervule, and an- 

 gulated at the medio-superior nervule, where it receives a rather faint discal 

 fold. The subcostal vein with three equidistant, moderately erect marginal 



1860.J 




540 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



iiervulesyrom the disk, with the apical vein simple. Median vein 4-branched, 

 with the posterior nei-vule and the marginal opposite at their origins. The 

 fold is thickened and the submedian vein simple. In the hind wings the sub- 

 costal vein shows a tendency to separate into two veins from its point of bi- 

 furcation towards the base of the wing and resembling two veins crossing each 

 other ; exterior to the point of bifurcation and a little behind the middle of 

 the lower branch arises a decided, curved discal vein which receives, just above 

 the medio-superior nervule, a decided or thickened discal fold. The median 

 vein is 4-branched, with the two posterior branches equidistant from the 

 second one. 



Head moderate, free, smooth ; with large ocelli. Face broad, rounded. 

 Eyes rather small, round and scarcely prominent. Antennse nearly as long as 

 the body, moderately pectinated in the (^, minutely pectinated in the J. 

 Palpi equal to the front, filiform, porrected, distinctly 3-jointed and with joints 

 neai ly equal ; terminal joint obtuse. Tongue about one-half as long as the 

 the thorax beneath. 



Body short, rather slender, not metallic. Patagia very minute. Abdomen 

 ns long as the thorax beneath, not tufted at the tip and scarcely tufted along the 

 sides, with a minute, lateral tubercle on the basal segment. Legs extremely 

 slender and rather short ; fore tibise with a slender tibial spur from the mid- 

 dle ; hind tibiae with two minute apical spurs. 



A. falsarius. — Black. Prothorax fulvous, especially on the sides, Ji'ifA 

 a point on the median line black. Hind wings rather thin. 

 Penn.; Ill,, from Mr. Kennicott. 



Peocris? Facr. 



Fore wings somewhat fusiform. The subcostal vein with two distinct, rathtr 

 long marginal nervules, with apical vein simple, with tivo disco-ceiitral nervules. 

 The median 4-branched, the medio-posterior opposite the first marginal ner- 

 vule and the two upper branches on the line of the discal vein, which is 

 straight. The fold of the wing is thickened from the base to the tip. Sub- 

 median simple. Hind wings not as broad on the fore wings at their broadest 

 part, ovate. The subcostal vein is bifid, the lower branch giving rise to a de- 

 cided rather oblique discal vein and which is angulated above the medio- 

 ;;uperior nervule, where it receives the discal fold. Median vein with four, 

 equidistant nervules. 



Head moderate, advanced, but without decided neck ; with rather large 

 ocelli. Face moderate, oblique and projecting tuberculai-ly at the base of 

 the antennse, and in the middle. Eyes small. Antennae incrassattd at the tip, as 

 long as the thorax beneath, with rather deep pectinations in the i^, serrated or 

 minutely pectinated in the 9- Palpi rudimental, tubercular. Tongue rudi- 

 mental. 



Body rather thick, short. Patagia rather elevated, consisting of two trans- 

 verse plates rounded above, making the prothorax more than ordinarily wide 

 above. Abdomen ovate, without apical tuft, less long than the thorax be- 

 neath. Legs short and slender; fore tibiae unarmed; hind tibiae with two 

 very minute apical spurs. 



P.? S m i th soniana . — The entire insect is greenish black; immaculate. 

 Texas. Capt. Pope's collection. From the Smithsonian Institution. 



Malthaca. 



Fore wings rather broad, obovate ; the discal cell broad behind, fusiform. 

 The subcostal vein sends two short nearly erect marginal nervules to the costa, 

 and from the superior angle of the disc arise two long nervules, on a short 

 common stalk, the lower one of which is the apical, but delivered rather above 



[Nov. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 541 



the tip. The discal vein is rather faint and gives rise to two disco-central 

 nervules, the npper one rather on the costal side of the wing. Medi.an vein 

 4-branched, the posterior nervule arising a little behind the first marginal 

 branch. The fold is thickened and the submedian shortly forked at the base. 

 Hind wings ovate ; as broad as the fore wing and in length equal to that of 

 the body. Without costal vein. Subcostal is furcate, the lower branch giving 

 rise at an obtuse angle to a thickened discal vein, which is angulated above 

 the medio-superior nervule, where it receives the discal fold, and above this is 

 given off a single disco-central nervule. Median vein 4-branched, with branches 

 equidistant, except the two superior ones. 



Head moderate, free, vertex rather elongated, smooth ; ocelli large. Face 

 moderately broad, rounded, slightly protuberant. Eyes rather small, scarcely 

 prominent. Antennas with bases almost united, rather thick, but tapering at 

 the tips, pectinated. Palpi extremely short. Tongue about one half as long 

 as the thorax beneath. 



Body slender, cylindrical. Patagia minute, rolled. Abdomen not tufted at 

 the tip or on the sides, about one half the length of the body beneath. Legs 

 slender ; fore tibiae with a short concealed spur on its middle ; hind tibise with 

 two extremely minute apical spurs. 



M. perlucidula. Blackish brown. Wings slightly transparent. Fore 

 wings with the basal half luteous above the fold. Hind wings luteous along the 

 costa from the base to the middle. 



ni., Mr. Kennicott. Md., Dr. Morris. 



Crocota, Hiibner. 



Fore wings rather broad, trigonate. The subcostal vein, almost above pos- 

 terior end of the disk, gives rise to a single marginal nervule, and the apical 

 branch is trifid at the tip ; and sometimes with a second short marginal branch 

 from about the middle of the apical nervule. The subcosto inferior and the 

 iliscal arise on a short common stalk, the latter vein angulated. The median 

 is 4-branched, with the posterior remote from the others. Hind wings rounded, 

 broader than the fore wings, with the costal and subcostal veins from a com- 

 mon stalk, the former simple and the latter bifid, m- ith an angulated discal 

 vein from the point of bifurcation. Median with three branches, the posterior 

 remote. 



Head moderate, free, smooth ; ocelli small. Face moderate, flat, smooth. 

 Eyes rather large, prominent. Antennae not more than half as long as the 

 body, rather stout, setaceous and slightly setose. Palpi rather slender, por- 

 rected, exceeding the clypeus by at least one half their length, and pubescent ; 

 the terminal joint pointed and slender, about one half as long as the middle 

 joint. Tongue slender, about one half as long as the anterior coxae, or rudi- 

 mentary. 



Body smooth, rather slender ; length less than that of the hind wings. 

 Patagia scale-like. Abdomen smooth, bo>neath one half as long as the body. 

 Legs rather slender ; fore tibiae with a short, concealed, middle spur ; hind 

 tibite with four short spurs. 



Somewhat allied to the Arctiidae. 



Table of Species. 

 Wings with a discal dot. 



Abdomen ferruginous, with dorsal and black dots, ferruginosa. 



Abdomen rose color, brevicornis. 



Abdomen reddish brown or fulvous, rubicundaria. 



Wings without discal dot. 



Abdomen red, with a black stripe, 1 a e t a . 



Abdomen testaceous ; wings subhyaline, c u p r a r i a . 



C. rubicundaria, Hiibner, Samml. Ex. Sch. iii. 28, 256, f. 511, 5, 12. 

 1S60.] 




542 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



Arctta rubricosa : Harris, Ins. Mas. 2d ed. 274. Fulvous or reddish brown . 

 Antennae fulvous, blackish on the sides. Fore wing sometimes with a brown 

 discal spot. Hind wings more or less red, with a more or less distinct margi- 

 nal black band, sometimes absent, and sometimes with a dark brown discal 

 dot. 



Fore wings with a second marginal nervule on the middle of the apical. 

 Variety ? Yellowish. Fore wings without discal dot. Hind wings with a 

 discal dot and rather broad, distinct dark brown marginal band. 



C. brevicornis, Walker, 536. Fawn color or luteous fawn color. An- 

 tennae black, short. Abdomen rose color. Fore wings rosy beneath. Hind 

 wings rose color, with an indistinct and sometimes quite obsolete brown stripe 

 in the hind border, and a brown dot in the disk. Body 2^ — 3j lines long ; 

 wings 8 — 10 lines. 



I have specimens which correspond very nearh' to the above description. 

 The anterior portion of the body is luteous, as are the fore wings, but com- 

 bined with a reddish hue. Hind wings cinnabar red, without marginal band 

 or discal spot, and in one specimen the terminal joint of the palpi is blackish. 



111., Mr. Kennicott. 



C. f erruginosa , Walker, 535. Ferruginous. Abdomen pale ferruginous, 

 with a row of dorsal black dots. Hind wings pale ferruginous, with a blackish 

 dot in the disk, and two or three blackish spots along the border. Length of 

 the body 3^—4 lines ; of the wings 10—11 lines. 



It is possible this insect may be the rubricosa of Harris. I have specimens 

 which agree in general with Mr. Walker's description, but they possess 

 noticeable differences in structure as compared with the others described pre- 

 viously. In these the tongue is rudimentary ; fore wings with a second marginal 

 branch in the middle of the apical nervule. In every other pai'ticular the struc- 

 ture conforms to that of the genus. These differences may be sexual. In 

 ornamentation they are reddish brown, scarcely ferruginous, and in addition 

 to the discal dot, have a rather faint dark brownish band crossing the nervules. 

 Hind wings rather paler than the fore wings, one specimen with a blackisli 

 discal spot, the other without it, and faint blackish spots along the margin 

 near the inner angle. 



My own impression is that rubicundaria of Hiibner and rubricosa of Harris 

 is a variable insect, and ih.a.if erruginosa of Walker, and perhaps brevicornis, are 

 not true species. I am much more uncertain, however, respecting the latter 

 than the former. 



*C. cupraria, Walker, 536. Testaceous. Fore legs mostly brown. 

 Wings slightly rosy testaceous, subhyaline, with a slight cupreous tinge 

 towards the tips. Length of the body 3 — 4 lines ; of the wings 9 — 11 lines. 



Jamaica ? S. America. 



*C. laeta. — Lithosia laeta, Boisd. Guer. Icon. Reg. An. Ins. pi. 88, f. 6. 

 p. 519. a laeta, Walker, 537. 



Grayish black. Tongue testaceous. Abdomen red, with a black stripe 

 which is broader beneath than above. Fore wings red along the costa. Hind 

 wings red, with a broad grayish black border. Length of the body 3 lines ; of 

 wings 9 lines. 



N. America? 



Atolmis? Hiibner. 



Fore wings rather elongated, subelliptico truncate. Disk rather narrow 

 closed by a very faint vein. Subcostal vein remote from the costa, with two 

 marginal nervules from near the middle of the disk rather erected, and another 

 exterior to the disk, between it and the furcate apical nervule. The subcosto- 

 inferior and discal from a short common stalk. Median 4-branched, the pos- 

 terior remote from the others, arising interiorly to the first marginal nervule. 



[Nov. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 543 



I 



Hind wings much broader than the fore wings ; with the costal and subcostal 

 veins from a common stalk, the latter bifid beyond the disk, which is closed 

 bj a faint vein. Median vein 3-branched, the two superior on a common 

 stalk, which becomes bifid opposite the fork of the subcostal. 



Head rather small, free, smooth ; without ocelli. Face moderate, flat, 

 smooth. Ejes moderate, prominent. Anteuuse simple, setose in both sexes ? 

 Palpi moderate, recurved, but little exceeding the clypeus. squamose ; the 

 basal joint tumid, and about equal to the middle joint, which is cylindric ; the 

 terminal joint slender and nearly equal to the middle joint. Tongue slightly 

 more than one half us long as the thorax beneath. 



Body moderately thick, rather less than the length of the hind wings. Pa- 

 tagia small, nearly cylindrical. Abdomen beneath one half the length of the 

 body. Legs rather stout ; fore tibiae with a short spur at the base ; hind 

 tibiae with four moderate spurs. 



A.? m i n i a t a . Lithosia miniata, Kirby, Faun. Bor. Am. iv. 305, 1. Gnopria 

 vittata, Harris, Ins. Mas. 2d ed. 262. Scarlet or yellow tinged with scarlet. 

 Antennae black. Palpi tipped with black. Fore wings with three broad slate 

 colored or lead colored stripes, the first near the costa ; the third near inner 

 margin ; the second short in the middle of the wing posteriorly. Hind wings 

 blackish slate colored, scarlet or pinkish at the base. Abdomen black with a 

 broad scarlet stripe beneath. 



NuDAKiA? Haw., Steph. 



Wings rather broad, semi-diaphanous, rounded. In the fore wings the sub- 

 costal vein forms a large subcostal cell over the discal vein, giving rise about 

 the middle of the cell above to a marginal nervule, and beneath to the sub- 

 costo- inferior and discal vein, the latter having a disco-central nervule. At 

 the apex of the cell behind, the vein becomes trifid, dividinu' into a marginal, 

 post-apical and apical nervules, the latter with a nervulet from its middle. 

 Hind wings about equal to the body in length ; without costal vein ; subcostal 

 vein with a marginal nervnle arising from the disk near the discal vein, and 

 becoming bifid exteriorly at a point remote from the discal vein ; with a disco- 

 central nervule. Median 3-branched, with the posterior nervule somewhat 

 interior to the origin of the marginal nervule. 



Head free, rather small, smooth ; without ocelli. Face smooth, rather nar- 

 row, clypeus prominent. Antennae setiform, moderately long, scarcely ciliated 

 in the males. Palpi slender, slightly curved, but little exceeding the clypeus, 

 slightly hairy at the base ; the basal joint twice larger than the middle ; ter- 

 minal joint minute, ovate. Tongue as long as the thorax beneath. 



Body slender. Patagia nearly obsolete. Legs rather long and slender ; 

 fore tibije unarmed ; hind tibiae with four spurs, the middle pair short. 



Eggs globular, pale yellow ; producing larva one week after deposition. The 

 larva in escaping from the egg is geometriform, luith ten legs. This refers to 

 the species described below which differs sufficiently in structure from the 

 European N. mundana, it appears to me to authorise the separation of our 

 species from the group containing the European species. It may belong to the 

 Geometrina. 



N. me n di c a , Walker, 576. Pale yellowish. Fore wings with the costa 

 at the base frequently touched with ochreous, with two irregular oblique 

 blackish, sometimes pale grey, bands, composed of large spots ; one on the 

 middle of the disk, and the other crossing tlie nervules, and a single spot of 

 the same hue near the hind margin in the medio-central interspace, sometimes 

 connected with the posterior band. 



Penna., N. Y. 



PsTCHOMOEPHA, Harris. 



" Antenme in the male pectinated on both sides, the pectinations rather 



1860] 




544 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



short, simpl? in the female. Prohoscis moderate, spirally rolled. Palpi slen- 

 der, nearly horizontal, extending a little beyond the clypeus, covered with 

 loose hairs so as to conceal the joints. Wings short, somewhat triangular, 

 with the outer margins rounded ; discal areolet of the hind wings short, closed 

 by a sinuous vein. Body slender, hairy at the tip. Legs short, hairy ; spurs 

 of the hind tibiae three, slender, nearly concealed by the hairs. 



*P. E p i m e n i s , Drury. " Brownish black. Fore wings sprinkled in spots 

 with light blue scales, which form a narrow band near the hinder margin, and 

 marked with a large yellowish white patch beyond the middle. Hind wings 

 with a broad dark oransre-red band behind the middle. The white spot of the 

 fore wings is indented towards the miiidle of the wing, and on the under side 

 there is a small triangular spot near the base of the wing, and a short trans- 

 verse one beyond it which unites behind with the angular projection of the 

 large white patch. Expands rather more than one inch." 



CosMOSOMA, Hubner. 



Wings mostly hyaline. The subcostal vein of the fore wings is adjacent to 

 the external margin, with a single nervule from the disk arising at a point 

 midway between the medio posterior branch and its penultitnate. The apical 

 branch beyond its middle sends off the post-apical nervule and near its tip an 

 apical uervulet to the costa. Median vein 4-branched. Hind wings about 

 half as long as the fore wings ; without costal vein ; subcostal bifid from the 

 origin of the discal vein, which is very obliquely inclined towards th-^ base 

 and curved above the median where it receives the discal fold. Median vein 

 bifid exterior to the disk, with the lower branch furcate at its tip. 



Head moderate, smooth, neck not distinct ; with ocelli. Face moderate, 

 smooth, vertical. Eyes moderately prominent. Antennae rather more than 

 one half as long as the body, pectinated to the tips in the rj', less so in the S . 

 Palpi rather stout, curved, exceeding the face, smooth, but hairy at the base ; 

 basal and middle joints nearly equal ; terminal small and conical. Tongue 

 equal to the thorax beneath. 



Body scarcely equal to the fore wings in length, rather slender, nearly linear. 

 Patagia small. Legs moderately stout, smooth ; fore tibiae with a moderate, 

 concealed spur from the base ; hind tibias with four rather small spurs. 



C. m p h a 1 e , Hiibner. Bright red. Antennae black, with white tips. 

 Head blue. Thorax most frequently striped with black. Abdomen with a 

 black dorsal stripe, and the tip black, varied with blue. Wings margined with 

 black and with black veins. 



Fla., Mexico, near Jalapa. 



Ormetica. 



Wings opaque. Fore wings rather narrow, equal in length to that of the 

 body ; hind margin very obliquely rounded, with the inner angle opposite the 

 middle of the costa. The subcostal vein is adjacent to the costa, and gives 

 rise to a marginal nervule from the disk nearly opposite the penultimate 

 branch of the median vein, and another exterior but near to the disk. The 

 post-apical arises just exterior to the second marginal nervule, and the apical 

 is bifid at its posterior third. The discal vein and the subcosto-inferior arise 

 at a common point, the former very obliquely inclined to the base, but straight. 

 The median is 4-branched. Hind wings extremely short, not one half as long 

 as the antt;rior ; without costal vein ; subcostal vein arched, with a marginal 

 nervule from the point of origin of the discal, and bifid at the tip much exte- 

 rior to the cell. Discal vein vertical. Median 3-branched. 



Head rather large, smooth, free ; with small ocelli. Face tapering, smooth, 

 vertical. Eyes rather large, prominent. Antenna wanting. Palpi curved, 

 cylindrical, ascending to the middle of the front, stout, smooth ; basal joint 



[Nov. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 545 



short, rather hairy beneath ; middle joint smooth, rather thickened in the 

 middle and about four times as long as the apical joint ; terminal joint very 

 short, ovate. Tongue as long as the thorax beneath. 



Body not metallic, rather stout, equal in length to the fore wings, smooth. 

 Patagia moderate, decumbent, and overlapping the meso-thorax. Abdomen 

 tapering at the tip, more than one half as long as the body beneath. Legs 

 smooth, rather stout ; tarsi roughened with spines ; fore tibiae with a stout 

 internal spur from the base ; hind tibiae with four spurs. 



0. sphingiformis. Bluish black. Face with a blue band. Body with 

 a yellow stripe on each side extending from the head to the tip of the abdo- 

 men. Palpi blackish, whitish at base and on the second joint beneath. Fore 

 wings with the extreme costa from the base to beyond the middle yellow, with 

 a broad stripe of the same hue from the base to the hind margin beneath the 

 tip, somewhat contracted behind. Hind wings, exterior half yellow, interior 

 half black. The under surface of the wings the same as above. Abdomen 

 beneath with a central yellow stripe. Legs black ; fore coxae each with a yel- 

 low spot ; femora white internally ; tibiae striped with white. Length of body 

 9 lines ; of the wings 19 lines. 



Mexico, near Jalapa. 



The structure of this insect shows marked affinities to the group of Sphinges. 



Cyanopepla. 



Female ? Fore wings much longer than the body, moderately broad, rounded 

 at the tip, and very oblique along the margin. The subcostal vein adjacent to 

 the external margin, with a single marginal nervule from near the hind end 

 of the disk, and a second marginal nervule just exterior to it. The apical 

 branch near its exterior third sends off a post-apical nervule, and near the tip 

 a nervulet to the costa. The subcosto-inferior nervule and the discal vein 

 arise at a common point, the latter angulated. Median vein 4 branched, with 

 the posterior nervule rather remote from the others, and the origin of the first 

 subcosto-marginal nervule. Hind wings rather more than one half as long as 

 the fore wings, nearly equal to the length of the body. Without costal vein. 

 Subcostal bifid at the origin of the discal vein, which is much curved. Me- 

 dian vein 4-branched, the superior branch is medio-discal, the two middle 

 ones from a common base, the posterior remote. 



Head moderate, smooth, without distinct neck ; without ocelli. Face rather 

 narrow, smooth. Eyes rather small, moderately prominent. Antennae more 

 than one half as long as the body, minutely pectinated or serrated beneath. 

 Palpi curved, ascending rather above the middle of the face, smooth, slightly 

 hairy at the base ; middle joint rather more than twice longer than the basal 

 joint ; terminal joint very minute, ovate. Tongue equal to the thorax 

 beneath. 



Body metallic, cylindric, scarcely slender, smooth. Patagia rather small, 

 somewhat erected. Abdomen less than one half as long as the body beneath. 

 Legs rather slender, smooth ; fore tibiae with a short, concealed middle spur ; 

 hind tibiae with four rather short spurs. Tarsi minutely spinous. 



C. cruenta. Black. Palpi blue. Head and body metallic blue. Fore 

 wings with a large crimson spot at the base, extended to the middle of the 

 disk and to the fold beneath, and another of the same hue, oval and obliquely 

 placed in the median nervules ; inner margin at the base and a streak along 

 the submedian vein metallic blue ; cilia at the tip white. Hind wings dark 

 bluish black, immaculate. Length of the body 7 lines ; of the wings 20 lines. 



Mexico, near .Jalapa. 



EacHROMiA, Hiibner. 

 Group, Horamia, Walker. 



Wings narrow. Fore wings much longer than the body. The subcostal 



I860.] 




546 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



vein is adjacent to the external margin, with two marginal nervnles from the 

 hinder end of the disk, the first opposite the penultimate branch of the me- 

 dian, the second forked at about its middle. The apical branch gives rise at 

 about its middle to the post-apical. The subcosto-inferior and the discal vein 

 arise at a common point, the latter slightly curved. Median vein 4-branched, 

 the posterior remote fi-om the penultimate. Hind wings equal to the length 

 of the body. Without costal vein. Subcostal vein bifid from the origin of 

 the discal vein, which is very obliquely inclined to the base and suddenly 

 curved about the middle of the disk, where it receives the discal fold ; Imme- 

 diately beneath this arises a medio-discal nervule. Median vein bifid from the 

 disk. 



Head rather large, smooth, free ; with ocelli. Face narrow. Eyes rather 

 large, prominent. Antennae shortly pectinated or serrated to the tip, whence 

 it is moniliform, and more or less dilated or fusiform about the middle. Palpi 

 curved, ascending to the middle of the face ; basal joint hairy beneath ; middle 

 and terminal joint smooth and cylindrical. Tongue about as long as the thorax 

 beneath. 



Body cylindrical, smooth. Patagia small. Abdomen obtuse, with a promi- 

 nent tubercle on each side of the basal segment. Legs slender and long ; fore 

 tibije with a moderate spur from the base ; hind tibiae towards the ends and 

 the hind tarsi plumose. Hind tibise with two short spurs. 



E. -pi -amines .—Sphinx phmipes, Dniry, Append, ii. Aglaope plumipes, 

 Westw. ed. Drury ii. 51, pi. 27, f. 3. Blackish, somewhat tinged with blue. 

 Antennae with ochreous tips. Face yellow, with a blackish central stripe and 

 a yellow spot between the anternae. Thorax with four yellow spots and tegulae 

 striped with yellow on the inner edge. Abdomen with tip dark yellow and 

 banded with the same hue between the segments ; the two segments next 

 the basal banded with white beneath. Wings concolorous dark brown, im- 

 maculate. The fore coxae each with an orange yellow spot ; legs black, 

 middle femora striped with dark yellow ; hind tibiae and tarsi with yellow 

 hairs, broadly banded at the end of each with black. 



Texas. Coll. Capt. Pope. Smithsonian Institution. 



Variety? Walker, 252. — Palpi short; third joint small. Black, indistinctly 

 tinged with blue. Head, thorax, base of the wings and abdomen towards the 

 base with white dots. Wings blackish brown. Abdominal segments with 

 white bands. Legs partly covered with white scales ; hind tibiae with a white 

 band before the middle, beyond which they are deeply plumose towards the 

 base. 



Honduras. 



*E. F ret -as. —Sphinx adscita Pretus, Cramer, Pap. Exot. ii. 121, pi. 175, 

 f. E, F. Horamia Pretus, Hiibn. Verz. Schmitt, 125, 1351 ; Samml. Exot. 

 Schmitfc, Ad. pi. f. 1 — 4. E. Pretus, Walker 252. Palpi long ; third joint 

 elongated. Fawn colored. Antennae banded with black. Prothorax and basal 

 portion of the abdomen whitish. Hind wings somewhat brown. Fore wings 

 testaceous. Femora and tibiae black at the tips. 



Jamaica. 



PCECILOPTEEA. 



The wings are longer than the body. The anterior rather narrow, envelop- 

 ing the body when folded ; apex obtusely rounded and hind margin slightly 

 oblique. The subcostal nervule gives rise to a marginal nervule, about its 

 middle, and within the disk forms a large secondary cell, from the hind end 

 of which arise three distinct marginal nervules, the lower one reaching the 

 costa rather above the tip. The disk extends rather beyond the apical third 

 of the wing, and the discal vein gives rise to three nervules. The median is 

 3 -branched, the posterior branch being remote from the others and arising op- 



[Nov. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 547 



posite tlie origin of the subcostal branch, which forms the secondary cell. 

 The fold is thickened, and the snbmedian furcate at its base. The hind wings 

 are rather broader than the fore wings ; obliquely rounded along the hind mar- 

 gin from the tip to the base ; costa nearly straight. The costal nervure dis- 

 tinct and simple : the subcostal simple and rather attenuated from the discal 

 vein towarils the base. The discal vein gives rise to two nervules, and sends 

 a false nervule through the disk towards the base of the wing. The median 

 subdivides into three equidistant nervules. 



Head rather small, smooth, free ; without ocelli. Face rather narrow, 

 tapering, vertical. Eyes small, salient. Antennae slender, with joints closely 

 set, serrated beneath uith scales. Palpi slender cylindrical, curved, ascending 

 rather above the middle of the front ; basal joint squamose ; middle and ter- 

 minal joints smooth and equal in length. Tongue about one half as long as 

 the body. 



Body slender, scarcely equal in length to the fore wings. Patagia scale-like. 

 Abdomen slender, more than one half as long as the body beneath. Legs 

 smooth and slender ; fore tibiae with a long, concealed internal spur ; hind 

 tibiae with a pair of apical spurs. 



The wing structure of the insect included in this genus resembles most 

 strikingly that of the Tineina, and must form a group connecting the Glauco- 

 pidipae directly with it. 



P. CO nipt a. — Palpi pale yellow, with the ends of the second and third 

 j oints black. Head yellow, with a black spot between the antennae and a 

 black band across the face. Thorax reddish orange, with two black spots in 

 front ; neck yellow, edged behind with blackish. Fore wings reddish orange, 

 with four bluish black patches placed transversely on the wing and containing 

 yellow spots ; the first at the base ; the second interior to the middle of the 

 wing ; the third exterior to the middle, constricted toward the costa and con- 

 nected behind with the subterminal patch, which is constricted in the middle. 

 The hind wings are slightly hyaline ; dark brown. 



Texas. Capt. Pope's Coll. From the Smithsonian Institution. 



December ith. 



Mr. Joseph Jeanes in the Chair. 



Twenty-four members present. 

 The following paper was presented for publication : 

 " Description of two new species of Pimelodus, from Kansas, by 

 Charles C. Abbott," and was referred to a Committee. 



Mr. Durand stated that he had received the following note from Mr. Thomas 

 Meehan, of Germantown: 



"In looking over the last issue of the Proceedings of the Academy of 

 Natural Sciences, I notice that Mr. Buckley describes a new large Carya 

 Texana. As Major Le Conte has already described a species as Hickorea ( Carya) 

 Texana, and by a comparison of Buckley's description with Le Conte's, (see 

 Proceedings, 1853,) it is evident that they are two distinct species, is it not 

 worth having the error corrected?" 



Mr. D. agreed fully with Mr. Meehan, and proposed the substitution of 

 Carya Buckleyi for the name of Texana, given by Dr. Buckley, and already 

 oocupied. 



I860.] 




548 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OE 



Dr. Corse, in presenting a specimen of tuberculous disease in a sheep, called 

 attention to the importance of collecting more detailed and numerous data, 

 having reference to the connection between good agriculture, food, water and 

 shelter, and the health of our domestic animals, used as food for man. 



Decemher Wth. 



Mr. Lea, Presideut, in the Chair. 



Forty members present. 



Mr. Vaux, on behalf of the Publication Committee, laid on the table 

 Part 4, A^'ol. iv. of the Journal. 



Mr. Lea read the following letter from Mr. Marcou : 



« Boston, 2Gth Nov., 1860. 



At the end of the " Proceedings" for 1859, there is a Catalogue of the Fossils of 

 the Cretaceous Formation of the United States, by Mr. Wm. M. Gabb, where I see 

 placed the Ostrea Marshii and G-ryphcea dilatata, var. Tucumcarii, found by me in 

 the Jurassic strata of Pyramid Mount in New Mexico. Mr. Gabb ought, I think, 

 in thus placing these fossils, at least to have mentioned in a note that I have 

 placed them in the Jurassic formation of (he United States. 



In a notice of Geological Discoveries made by Capt. J. H. Simpson, by Messrs. 

 Meek and Eagelmann, published in April, I860, "Proceedings," page 126, 1 observe 

 a paragraph entitled Jurassic Rocks, where they have found a Gryphcea probably 

 identical with G. calceola, Quenstedt, and a plicated oyster closely allied to Os- 

 trea Marshii, in the strata of the Utah Territory, where, since 1854 I have indi- 

 cated the existence of the Jurassic Formation. Notwithstanding that Messrs. 

 Meek and Engelraann say that this species of Ostrea Marshii is distinct from the 

 species of Mr. Marcou, and notwithstanding the probable identity of Gryphcea 

 calceola, I do not doubt that Mr. Engelmann has found in Utah, at Ducherne 

 river and at Weber river, the Gryphcea dilatata, var. Tucumcarii, and the Ostrea 

 Marshii indicated by me in the Jurassic rocks of Pyramid Mount. These two 

 fossils are tco numerous around the Tucumcari Mountains, north of the Llano 

 Estacado, not to be distributed over other parts of the plateau which surrounds 

 the Rocky Mountains. The Gryphcea calceola of Quenstedt is very closely allied 

 to Gryphma dilatata, and with many geologists it is considered but a variety. 

 Dr. B. F. Shumard, in " Observations upon the Cretaceous Strata of Texas {Trans. 

 Acad, of Sci., St. Louis, p. 587,) maintains that my Ostrea Marshii of Pyramid 

 Mount is identical with his Ostrea subovata from Fort Washita, and that my 

 Gryphcca dilatata, var. Tucumcarii, is found at Fort Washita, in strata two hun- 

 dred feet above beds that contain well-marked cretaceous types. The question 

 to resolve is, actually to give a detailed section of Fort Washita, with plates of 

 fossils, as I have done for Pyramid Mount, to do the same for the strata of Utah 

 Territory, and compare the three localities. Then we shall see if Washita is 

 identical with Pyramid Mount and with Utah, or if Pyramid Mount and Utah 

 are identical, and different from Washita. 



Mr. Gabb remarked that, while he strongly deprecated anything like the 

 unfortunate discussions that have taken place on the above subject, he still 

 considered that the candid expression of the views of persons holding a differ- 

 ence of opinion on scientific points, was the only way to arrive at the facts. 

 The omission of the note, in regard to the position to which Prof. Marcou 

 referred these species, was accidental, and not an intentional slight, as Prof. 

 M. seems to imply. 



Nevertheless, the species are not, in his opinion, identical with the species 

 bearing the same names in Europe. As far as can be determined, Ostrea 



[December, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 549 



Marsha, Marcou, is not 0. Marshii, Sow., and therefore the name 0. subovata, 

 Shumard, is the real name of tiie species. Gryphaa Tucumcarii, M., is at 

 least as nearly related to the typical specimens of G. Pitcherii, Morton, now in 

 the Museum of the Academy, as the forms referred to Pitcherii by Marcou, 

 and known to geologists as var. navis. The specimen from the plains of 

 Kiamesha, mentioned by Morton, is more nearly of the shape of Tucumcarii 

 than the one figured, but no palaeontologist would hesitate for a moment in 

 pronouncing them identical. 



In regard to the real position of these species, Dr. Shumard, in Marcy's Re- 

 port on the Red River of Louisiana, places 0. subovata, on the same horizon 

 with G. Pitcherii and Ammonites vespertinus, both of which species are, in other 

 parts of the United States, found associated with species that are everywhere 

 characteristic of the chalk, such as Baculites anceps, Grpphtea vesicularis, 

 Ostrea lai-va, Exogyra Matheroniana, of D'Orbigny, (or E. Ttxana, Roemer, ) 

 Nautilus Dekayi and other species, not only found in the United States, but in 

 Europe, Chili and India, and never found outside of the Upper Chalk of Eng- 

 lish authors, the Senonien of the French. 



Mr. Gabb did not pretend to deny the existence of the older members of 

 the cretaceous formation in North America, but said, that outside of the 

 evidence in "Geology of North America," founded only on the doubtful re- 

 cognition of two or three species of Ammonites from weathered fragments, all 

 the testimony yet collected tends to prove the existence only of the Upper 

 Chalk, unless, perhaps, some of the lower beds (Nos. 1 and 2) of Nebraska 

 may prove, as he thinks probable, to belong to the Lower Chalk of the Eng- 

 lish, the Turonien of . continental writers. Still the evidence is only negative. 

 True, the beds of New Jersey cannot be distinguished lithologically from the 

 green sand of England and France, but even Prof. Marcou would not now 

 have the temerity to call them upper green sand or even " Turonien " in face 

 of the palseontological evidence to the contrary ; and yet, lithological evidence 

 is among the strongest brought to bear on his Jurassic and Triassic of the 

 West. That Jurassic and Triassic rocks do exist on this continent is now 

 beyond doubt, but that Jurassic and Triassic, is not the Jurassic and Triassic 

 of Mareou. That Ostrea Marshii has been found in the far West, associated 

 with Ammonites cordatus, it is no evidence that the 0. Marshii of Prof. Marcou 

 is the 0. Marshii, Sow. 



In conclusion, he remarked that in the above opinions he was upheld by 

 every American geologist who has investigated the subject. 



Mr. Cope read the following list of the recent species of Emydosaurian rep- 

 tiles represented ia the museum of the Academy. 



ALLiGATORiD-^. Grocodilus palustris, 



Alligator Mississippiensis, Crocodilus porosus, 



Jacare sclerops, Crocodilus vulgaris, 



Jacare fissipes, Crocodilus Americanu?, 



Jacare vallifrons. Mecistops leptorhynchus, 



CROCODiLiD^ Mecistops bathyrhynchus, 



Osteolaemus tetraspis Gavialis Gangeticus. 



In all, twelve species, represented by thirty-eight specimens. 



OsTEOLAEMDs, Copc, was characterized as a genus of Crocodiles presenting 

 several points of analogy to the Alligators. The nasal bones were prolonged 

 anteriorly, and uniting with the short spine of the intermaxillary, divided the 

 external nasal orifice, as in the genus Alligator. The eyelids were entirely os- 

 seous, as in Caiman. There was no transverse bony ridge between the orbits. 

 The dermal plates upon the tail, extremities, and thorax, were more or less com- 

 pletely ossified ; upon the gular region the ossification was most complete, the 

 shields having a coarse sutural articulation. The digits of the posterior ex- 

 tremity were very slightly webbed. Cervical plates distinct from the dorsal. 



I860.] 38 




550 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Two specimens were exhibited ; one, a skin brought from the Ogobai River, 

 Western Africa, by Mr. P. B. Du ChaiUu ; the other, the skull of a half-grown 

 individual, obtained from the Museum of the Pennsylvania University. These 

 }iT. Cope regarded as belonging to a species hitherto unknown, and which he 

 proposed calling Osteolaemus tetraspis. He briefly characterized it as fol- 

 lows : Proportions of the head somewhat similar to those of Crocodilus 

 trigonops, Gray, of India. Breadth of muzzle at ninth tooth equal to the 

 distance between the external nasal orifice and anterior border of the orbit, and 

 to the width of the table of the cranium posteriorly. A short ridge in front of 



17 

 each orbit, directed obliquely inward. Teeth — , rather compressed. Four 



15 

 nuchal shields, in a single transverse series ; four cervical, in pairs. Dorsal 

 shields in six rows. Posterior extremities without fringe. Total length of 

 the entire specimen, five feet. 



Mr. Cope alluded to the remarkable extent to which ossification was carried 

 in this species. The cranium was much more rugose and pitted than in the 

 adult specimens of much larger species, and the crotaphite foramina were roofed 

 over by bone. The latter peculiarity was sometimes observed in the genera 

 Jacare and Caiman. The osseous gular and thoracic buckler was also similar 

 to that exhibited by those genera, and by the extinct ■' Crocodilus " H as t- 

 i n g s i ae , the existence of which has been shown by Professor Huxley. And 

 alluding to the numerous points of analogy to the Alligatorial or American type, 

 Mr. Cope mentioned the occurrence of South American forms of tree-snakes 

 in Western Africa; e. g. Dryophis Ki rt 1 a n di i andThrasops flavigularis, 

 JIallowell. 



Mecistops bathyrhynchus was the name by which Mr. Cope proposed to 

 characterize a species, of which a large skull was in the Academy's museum. 

 This skull was of a very elongate form ; on this account, and from the fact that 

 the nasal bones disappeared some distance posterior to the external nasal ori- 

 fice, he concluded that it belonged to Mecistops, Gray, although that genus 

 was mainly characterized by the position of the cervical dermal shields. 

 The breadth of the muzzle at the tenth tooth was twice that at the notch, and 

 was contained two and half times in the space between the orbit and nasal ori- 

 fice. The length of the muzzle anterior to the tenth tooth equalled the length 

 posterior to that point, plus three-fourths the length of the orbit. The latter 

 was scarcely larger than the external nasal orifice. The width of the table of 

 the cranium posteriorly, entered into the total length, measured from the pos- 

 terior border of the former, four times ; was equal to the length of the symphy- 

 sis mandibuli : was greater than the width of the muzzle measured across the 

 palate between the twelfth and thirteenth teeth, and was exactly twice the width 

 of the OS frontis. The snout was more rounded and elevated than in the known 

 species of Mecistops : the superior maxillary bone at its posterior extremity formed 

 a perpendicular wall. The length of the ramus of the inferior maxillary from 

 the angle, was thirty-two inches, the symphysis extending one-fifth the distance. 



19 

 Neither ridge nor convexitv in front of the orbits Teeth — . Native country 



15 

 of the species unknown. 



Mr. Cope stated that in the present species the muzzle was less depressed, 

 and more rounded laterally than in the species of Crocodilus; also that the 

 fourth and tenth teeth above, and fourth below, were of proportionally large size. 



Mr. Lea read two letters from Prof Tyson, State Geologist of Maryland, in 

 relation to some remarkable infusorial beds of Tripoli, observed by him in 

 Maryland. The specimens were presented to the Academy: 



No. 1 is from a bluff on the Patuxent, below Lyon's Creek, the bed being 

 three feet thick, overlying the green sand. 



No. 2 is from a bluff two miles below Nottingham, the thickness ten feet. 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 551 



No. 3 is from "Holland's Cliffs," three miles south of -'Lower Marlboro'", 

 and is thirty feet thick. 



No. 4 is from the " Cove," on the south aide of Herring Bay, eight miles 

 east of Nos. 1 and 2. 



Prof. Tyson has traced this '* Tripoli region " from near the head of West 

 River, in Anne Arundel County, twenty-five miles southward, to Prince Frederick, 

 in Clavert County. It may be found to extend eighteen or twenty miles further 

 south, to near the lower end of Calvert County. It is well exposed in high 

 cliffs on the Patuxent, as well as on the Chesapeake Bay. It probably extends 

 over most of Charles County, and of the southern part of Prince George County. 



It belongs to the Miocene period, and rests upon the most important fossil 

 shell bed of the Tertiary region. Prof. Tyson states that Dr. C. Johnson has 

 made out more than one hundred forms of Diatoms in No. 3. 



Dr. Fisher exhibited a stereoscopic picture of a parasitical insect, 

 taken by means of a new and ingenious arrangement of the ordinary 

 microscope, by Dr. R. E. Griffith. The insect was magnified between 

 20 and 25 diameters. 



December 18f/i. 

 Vice-President Bridges in the Chair. 



Forty members present. 



The following papers were presented for publication in the Proceed- 

 ings :— 



'• Description of some new Species of Tertiary Fossils from Chiriqui, 

 Central America, by Wm. M. Grabb." 



'• Descriptions of three new Species of Star-fishes from Cape San 

 Lucas, Lower California, by John Xantus." 



" Descriptions of new North American Coleoptera, in the Cabinet 

 of the Entomological Society of Philadelphia, by George H. Horn." 



*' Catalogue of Colubridae in the Museum of the Academy of Natural 

 Sciences of Philadelphia, &c., Part 3, by E. D. Cope." 



And were referred to Committees. 



December 25th. 



Vice-President Bridges in the Chair. 



Twenty-nine members present. 



On report of the respective Committees, the following papers were 

 ordered to be published in the Proceedings : — 



The Humming Birds of Mexico. 



BY RAFAEL MONTES DE OCA, 



Of Jalapa, Mexico. 



No. 3, 



CAMPTU)PTERnS PAMPA, Gould. 

 ObKISMTIA PAMPA, LeSBOIl. 



Pampa campyloptera, Reichenbach. 



The people of Coatepee, nine miles from Jalapa, give to this species of Hum- 

 ming Bird the name of Chupa-mirto fandanguero or Fandango Myrtle-sucker, 



I860.] 




552 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



for the reason, apparently, that it has a somewhat musical voice. It is the 

 only Humming Bird which to my knowledge has any notes which are sufficient 

 to recognize it by in the woods, and though rather monotonous, are quite 

 pleasing. 



In the neighborhood of Jalapa this species is found occasionally, but in the 

 above-mentioned place is more abundant, although very difficult to obtain. 

 It inhabits the forest in the winter season, and generally feeds on the flowers 

 of high bushes called Asasaretos, which at that season are in full bloom and 

 densely covered with beautiful smooth emerald green leaves, amongst which 

 it is very difficult to see this bird, though it often betrays itself by its musical 

 notes, especially in the morning. The males, I think, only sing, or at least 

 much more than the females. 



Very few specimens of this kind are seen in summer time in this neighbor- 

 hood. It is found also near Cordova, and goes as far south as Guatemala, where 

 perhaps it builds its nest, for I have never seen nor heard of a nest being found 

 here. 



The general appearance of this species is as follows : the upper part of the 

 head is beautiful metallic ultramarine color. Wing coverts and tail coverts, 

 and upper part of the body bronze green. Throat, under wing coverts, breast 

 and belly, iron gray color, and the under tail coverts the same, but tinged with 

 chestnut. Quills purplish black with the vanes black and resembling whale- 

 bone, the three principle ones rather wider than common. Tail feathers yel- 

 lowish bronze green, all except the two central, with the half towards the 

 point bluish black, three on each side tipped with chestnut iron gray. The feet 

 are dark iron gray, nails and upper mandible black, under mandible iron gray. 

 Its size from the point of the bill to the tip of the tail is from 5| to 5| inches, 

 wing 2|, tail 2, bill 1^ inches. The female is almost precisely like the male, 

 with the difference of about f of an inch in size, and either less blue or with 

 it less brilliant on the top of the head. 



No. 4. 



Thacsiastura Eliz^, Gould. 

 Trochilus Elisa, Lesson. 

 MiRTis Elisa, Reichenbach. 

 Lucifer Elisa, Bonaparte. 

 Calothorax Elisa, G. R. Gray. 



This species of Humming Bird is one of the rarest that is found in Mexico. 

 It is small, very beautiful, and possesses wonderful rapidity of flight, moving 

 its wings with such velocity that it is almost impossible to see them when 

 flying, and it may easily be mistaken for a large bee on account of the strange 

 buzzing sound produced by their incessant motion. In the vicinity of Jalapa 

 this bird is called 3Iirto de colo de tisera, or the shear-tailed Myrtle-sucker. 



This Humming Bird is extremely shy, and differs in its habits and manner 

 of living from other species. It rises very early in the morning, and the few 

 specimens that have come under my observation I never saw after seven or 

 eight o'clock in the morning, and again about five o'clock in the afternoon 

 until dark ; in the intermediate time I have never seen it. Wlien once this 

 bird is found eating at one place it is almost sure to be found there at the same 

 hour for several days in succession, so that once failing to obtain it, all that is 

 necessary is to wait for it the next day. It feeds on the Masapan and Tobaco 

 flowers, I think preferring the latter. 



This bird is found also at the Barrancas de Jico (or Precipices of Jico) about 

 twenty miles from Jalapa ; there it builds its nest, which I have seen. It is 

 very small, round, and flat on the bottom, neither so deep nor so thick on the 

 lower part as the generality of other Humming Birds. The eggs are two, 

 rather long in proportion to their diameter. The nest is covered on the out- 

 side with moss from stones, and lined inside with tule or cattail silky floss. 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 553 



In this hird the upper part of the head, the wing coverts, tail coverts, and 

 the upper part of the body are bright yellowish green bronze, except on the 

 top of the head, which is rather duller. The throat is beautiful metallic 

 shining amethyst color. The breast forming a kind of band across and com- 

 municating in a faint line on each side of the neck with the corner of the eye, 

 is white, slightly tinged with chestnut. The flanks, legs and lower part of 

 the belly are of the same color. The sides of the body under the wings are 

 mixed, scale-like, with bronze, green and chestnut color. The quills are pur- 

 plish gray black, the tail bright purplish black, the second and third feathers 

 having edges of light chestnut, not reaching to the point, and giving them the 

 appearance of being spatulate in form. The tail is composed of six feathers, two 

 on each side about the same length, and the third about one-third shorter. 

 The feet, nails, and bill are black. The bill is considerably curved. Total 

 length 3| inches, wing 1^, tail Ih, bill f . 



The female is like the male in the color of the upper parts of the body. The 

 throat and breast and abdomen are grayish white, tinged with chestnut, very 

 pale on the last, sides under the wings light chestnut, mixed with bronze 

 green towards the breast. The tail feathers are ten, light chestnut in their 

 half towards the body, and the terminal half black, with the first and second 

 widely tipped with white, and the third slightly. The middle feathers are 

 bronze green. The female is about one-eighth of an inch shorter than the 

 male. 



Catalogue of the Colubridse in the Museum of the Academy of Natural Seieaces 



of Philadelphia. Part 3. 



BY. E. D. COPE. 



PSA MMOPHIDIN^E. 



Malpolon Fitz. Type M. 1 a c e r t i n u s . 



Neue Classif. pp. 29, 59, 1826. Coelopellis Fitz., 1843, Dum. & Bihr. Gunther 

 nee Wagler, 1820 ; Rhabdodon Fleischm., 1831 -, ^' Bothriophis Eichw.," Gthr. : 

 Taphrometopon Brandt, 1839. 



162. M . 1 a c e r t i n u s Filz. " Coluber monspessulanus Hermann," also " Mer- 

 rem,"(1804& 1820), Bonap., (descriptions not recognizable). Hence Ccelopeliis 

 monspessulana Bp. Fauna Italica, 1832 ^ Nalrix lacerlina Wagl. in Spix, Serp. 

 Bras., 1824 Fig. ; Psammophis lacertina Boie, Isis, 1827 ; Schlegel, Ess. Coelo- 

 pe^^js tocer<r«a Wagl. Natur. Syst., 1830 ; Gunther, Cat. Brit. Mas., 1858; Col. 

 insignilus GeofiF. St. Hilaire, Hist. Egypt, 1827 Fig. ; Ctelopdtis insiijnitus Dum. 

 Bibr. Erp. Gen. vii. 1130,1854; "-7'a;oAro?ne<oyoort ZiVieoZa^ws, Brandt,' Kareline, 

 Rev. Mag. de Zoologie, 1840," Dum. Bibr. Rkabdodon fuscus Fleischm. 1831. 

 Three sp. Italy, Dr. Wilson, (Bp. Coll.) 



Var. Neumayeri Bp. 

 One sp. Algiers, '' " 



Two sp. Italy, '" " 



Psammophis Fitz. Type P. c r u c i f e r.. 

 Neue Class. Rept. 29, 59, June 1826. (nee IL Boie Bull, de Sci. Nat. et Geol. 

 Ferussac, Oct. 1826, which must be regarded as a synonyme of Coronella 

 Laur.!) F. Boie, Isis 1827, 521, et auctorum. Macrosoma Leach, in Bowditch's 

 Ashantee, 1819, (nee Hiibner, Lepidoptera, 1816.) 



163. P. crucifer Fitz.l.c. Boie I.e., Dum. Bibr. Erp. Geu. 1854. Coluber 

 crucifer Merr. Beitrage, 1821, fig. ICol. lurus Klein, Tent. 1775: founded on 

 Seba, 53, f. 2. 



One spec. Cape Good Hope, Gard. Plants in ex 



I860.] 




554 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



164. P. sibilans Fite. 1. c. Giinther Cat. Brit. Mus. 1858. Coluber sibilans 

 Linn.. 1766. Col. moniliger Daud., 1802. Psamjywphis moniliger Boie, 1826. 

 Wagler, Schleg., Dum. Bibr. 



One sp. Africa, , ? 



165. P. Phi Hip si i Hallow, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., 1854, p. 100; do. 1857, 

 p. QQ.Coluber PhilUpsii Hallow, 1. c. ii. 1844, 169. 



This species has three very narrow longitudinal light bands, which corres- 

 pond in position with the vertebral, and light inferior borders of the dark late- 

 ral bands of the P. sibilans. These are not alluded to in any of Dr. Hal- 

 lowell's descriptions. This species appears to us to be closely allied to the 

 sibilans, but has more the aspect of a tree snake, in the narrow, obliquely 

 arranged scales, and rather larger eye. 



One sp. Liberia, Dr. Goheen. 



Oae sp. (young, Proc. 1857, p. 69,) " " 



Tragops Wagler. Type T. prasinus. 



Nat. Syst. Amphib. 1830, 184. 



We have placed this genus and Passerita with Psammophis, on account of 

 the similarity of dentition, and from the fact that the T. tropidococcyx 

 {Dfyiophis Gthr.) " possesses the habit and physiognomy " of that genus, 

 according to Dr. Giinther, who has made known the species. 



166. T. prasinus Dum, Bibr. Dri/iophis prasinus F\,einwt. Dryinusnasufas, 

 Beil. Tragops nasutus^ digl^T. 



One sp. Java, Dr. Ruschenberger. 



One sp. Anger, " " 



One sp. Ceylon, Mr. Cuming in ex. 



One sp. India, Dr. Burrough. 



Var. laetu s nobis. Anal shield entire. Colors much brighter and yellower 

 than other specimens ; otherwise similar. 

 One sp. Philippines, Mr. Cuming in ex. 



Passerita Gray. Type P. mycterizans. 



Ann. Philos. 1825, 208. Dryinus Merrem, 1820, nee Fabricius. Dum. Bibr. 

 1354, vii. 808. Di-yophis " Dalman," Boie Isis, 1827, nee Pitzinger. Neue 

 Class, 1825. (Quid "Dryiophis Dahlman " Boie in Ferussac, Bull, de Sc. Nat. 

 et Geol., Oct. 1826?) Herpetotragus Fitz., 1843. 



167. P. mycterizans Gray. Col, mycterizans Linn. Dryophis nasutus 

 Merr. et auctorum. 



One sp. Madras, Mr. F. Brown. 



One sp. India, Dr. Burrough. 



One sp. Ceylon, Cuming ex. 



We would direct the attention of herpetologists who have large suits of spe- 

 cimens of this species at their command, to the variations in the relative 

 lengths of the tail and body. In our specimens from Madras and Ceylon, the 

 length of the former is to that of the latter, about as one to two ; in the speci- 

 men presented by Dr. Burrough, as one and one-third to two. In the latter, 

 the lateral and superior surfaces of the proboscis are verrucose, and the body 

 J3 more slender in proportion to its length. 



168. P. f u s c a . Dryinus fuscus Dum. Bibr. Erp. Gen. vii. p. 812. Passerita 

 mycterizans., var. Dryinus fuscus Gthr. Cat. Brit. Mus. p. 161. Dryophis c. Boie, 

 Isis, 1827, 546; " eine dritte durch Leschenault von Ceylon, der aenea 

 ahnlich." 



Four specimens of this serpent from Ceylon agree in having a more atten- 

 uated form than the m yc t e ri z a n s . The tail is to the body, in length, as 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 555 



one and one-third to two ; the lateral and superior surfaces of the proboscis 

 are verrucosa. The head is very much attenuated. A dark brown band passes 

 through the eye, and there is a diamond shaped blotch with a posterior elonga- 

 tion, on the top of the head. 



DRTOPHIDIX^E. 

 Langaha Bruguiere. Type L, n a s u t a . 

 Journ. Phys. 132, 1784. Xiphorhynchus^&g\., 1830. J'ipkori?ia Fitz., 1343. 



169. L. nasuta Shau; \190. L. Madagascariensish^iv., 1801. L.emifera 

 Dum. Bibr., 1854. Dryophis langaha Schleg., 1837. 



One sp. Madagascar, Gard. Plants in ex 



Dryophis Fitzinger. Type D. f u 1 g i d a . 



Neue Classification, 1826, p. 66 — et auctorum. Oxybelis Dum. Bibr. 1854. 



a. Scales smooth : Oxybelis Wagl., 1830. 



170. D. argenteus Schleg. 



One sp. Cayenne, Mr. Amory Edwards. 



171. D. acuminatus Gtkr. Coluber acuminatus Wied, 1822. Dryinus 

 aeneus Wagl., 1824. Dryiophis auratus Schleg., 1837. 



One sp, Brazil, Dr. McMurtrie. 



One sp. Veraguas, New Grenada, Mr. B. W, Mitchell. 



One sp. Panama, Drs.Gallaer&LeConte. 



Two sp. S. America, Mr. Cuming in ex. 



Two sp. " ? 



It is this species of Dryophis to which Prof. Baird alludes (Proc.Acad., 1859, 

 300) as having been olitained so far north as Guayamas, Sonora. A single 

 specimen procured by Capt. Stone at that place is in the Mus. Smithsonian. 



172. D. Kirtlandii Hallow. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phil , 1854, p. 100. 

 Leptophiii Kirtlandiiihid, 1, c. 1844, 62. Oxybelis Kirtlandii ihid^ 1. c. 1857, 59, 

 Ox.Lecomptei Dum. Bibr. vii. 821, 1854. 



Two sp. Liberia, Dr. Goheen. 



One sp. " Dr. Savage. 



One sp. " Mr. E. T. Cressoo, 



Two sp. Gibson, Dr. Ford. 



One sp. " Mr. Du Chaillu, 



b. Scales carinate : Dryophis, Fitg. Wagl. 



173. D. fulgidus Fitz. 



One sp. Surinam, Dr. Hering. 



One sp. Panama, Dr. Le Conte. 



One sp. Tsalco, San Salvador, Capt. J. Dow. 



The above specimens have ten upper labial shields. Giinther gives nine as 

 the ordinary number. 



174. D. b r e V i r s t r i s nobis. 



Near the middle of the body, scales in fifteen rows ; elsewhere in thir- 

 teen. Carination very faint anteriorly ; visible upon five rows poste- 

 riorly. General form extremely slender ; length of tail to that of body 

 as two to three. Head small, muzzle short. No loreal, one post, one 

 preocular, the latter reaching the vertical. Nostril near the middle of the nasal 

 plate. Superior labials six, fourth and angle of third entering orbit ; last very 

 long. Inferior labials seven, suture of the first pair unusually long. Pupil 

 round. Gastroteges 179; an entire anal, urosteges, 170. Total length 40 in. 6 I. 

 Tail 16 in. 3 1. 



I860.] 




556 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



Coloration, greyish green, tinged with rufous upon the upper surface of head 

 and body. A narrow black line passing back from the eye, parallel to the 

 commissure of the mouth. No lateral stripe. 



Habitat. Veraguas, New Grenada. From a valuable collection made in that 

 place by R. W. Mitchell, Esq. 



AIIAETULLIN^. 

 Chrysospelea Boie. Type C. o r n a t a. 



Isis von Oken, 1827, p. 546. Chironius Fitz. Isis, 1827, 265, nee Neue 

 Class. 1826. 



175. C. ornata Boie, 1. c. Coluber ornaius Shaw, 1803, Col. ibiboca, Latr. 

 1801 ! Chironius ibiboca Fitz. 1. c. 



Var. A. Gthr. 



One sp. Philippines, Mr. Cuming in ex. 



Var. B. Glkr. 



One sp. Siam, Dr. Ruschenberger. 



Two sp. ? ■ ? 



176. C. rhodopleurum Boie. Dendrophis rliodopleuron Reinw. 



One sp. E. Indies. Smiths. Inst. 



Ahaetulla Gray. Type A. p i c t a . 



Annals of Philosophy, 1825, p. 208 (September) ILeptophis Bell, Zoological 

 Journal, 1825, p. 328 (October). Gray, in King's Australia, ii. p. 432, 1827. 

 Dendrophis, Fitzingcr, Neue Classif. p. 60, 1826 (June). Boie, Ferrusac, Bullet. 

 Sci. Nat. et Geol. 1826, 238 (October). Wagler, Naturlich Syst. p. 183, 1830. 

 Fitzinger, Syst. Rept., 1843, p. 27. Dumeril, Prodrome General, 56, 1852, Giin- 

 ther. Cat Brit. Mus., 148, 1858. 



( 177. A. picta nobis. " Coluber filifor7nis Linn. Mus. Ad. Fried., pi. 17 f. 2." 

 Description and fig. not recognizable. Col. pictus Gmel. 1788. Col. coeruleus, 

 Bonaterre, 1790. CjI. decorus Shaw, 1802. Ahaetulla decora Gray, 1825. Den- 

 drophis decorus Fitz., 1826. Dendr. picta Boie, 1826. Wagler, Schlegel, Fitz- 

 inger, Dumeril, Glinther. 1 Leptophis purpurascens Bell, 1826. L. maiicas ibid. 

 Ahaetulla Bella Gi'Siy, Ind. Zool., 1834. Leptophis pictus Cantor, 1847. 

 One sp. near Calcutta, Dr. R. Coates. 



Three sp. Ceylon Mr. Cuming in ex. 



One sp. "( Vlar lidi of the Chinese)" Singapore, ? 



Five sp. Philippine Is. Mr. Cuming in ex. 



One sp. Java, Dr. Ruschenberger 



One sp. ? ? 



Thrasops Hallowell. Type T. flavigularis. 



Proc Acad. Nat. Sci. Phil., 1857, p. Dendrophis Boie, Isis, 1827, p. 520 

 (nee. Fitzinger, 1826). Schlegel Essai, 1837. Leptophis Wagler, Nat. Syst. p. 

 1830. Fitz. Syst. Rept., 1843. Dumeril, Prodrome, 1852 (nee Bell, 1825). 

 Ahaetulla Gthr., Cat. Brit. Mus. p. 151, 1858 (nee Gray, 1825). 



In this genus the scales are arranged in subtransverse rows, and are cari- 

 nate ; in Philothamnus Smith, they are similarly arranged and smooth ; in both 

 genera the gastrosteges are weakly keeled, the urosteges scarcely at all. In Gas- 

 tropyxis nobis, the scales are arranged quincuncially and are keeled ; the gastro- 

 and urosteges sharply angulated. In all three the dentition is syneranterian. 

 In Hapsidophrys, Fisch., the frontal region is much arched ; otherwise nearly 

 similar to Thrasops. 



178. T. flavigularis Hallow. I c. Dendrophis flavigularis,liaUo\v. I.e. 1852, 

 p. 205. We find no external character in this fine serpent which can, in our 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 557 



opinion, justify its separation from the next succeeding species. This is inte- 

 resting when we recollect that the Drjophis of the same region is congeneric 

 with the South American form, and not with that inhabiting the East Indies ; 

 a fact pointed out by Dr. Giinther, in his paper on the geographical distribution 

 of reptiles. 

 Two sp. Gaboon, West Afr. Dr. H. A. Ford. 



179. T. a h a e t u 1 1 a nobis. Coluber ahaetuU a Linn. Col. liocercus Neuw. Leptop- 

 hisakaetulla Bell. Dendrophis ahaetullaFitz. Boie. Dendrophis liocercus, Schleg. 

 Leptophis liocercus D. & B. Ahaetulla liocercus et Linnaei Gray, 1830. Gthr. 

 Two sp. Surinam, Dr. Colhoun. 

 One sp. Brazil, ? 



One sp. loc ignot. ? 



180. T. M ex i c a n u s nobis. Leptophis Mexicanus D. & B. Ahaetulla Mezicana 

 Giinther. 



One sp. Omoa, Honduras, Dr. J. L. Le Conte. 



Two sp. loc. ignot. Mr. Cuming in ex. 



181. T. occidentalis nobis. Ahaetulla occidentalis, Giinther, Proc. Zool. 

 Soc, 1859, p. 



One sp, Isth. Panama, Dr. J. L. Le Conte. 



One sp. ? Mr. Cuming in ex. 



?Var. In a third specimen, locality unknown, an additional superior labial 

 shield, and a postnasal longer than high, are the indices of greater elongation 

 of the prefrontal, nasal and intermaxillary bones. In every other respect 

 similar to the above. The proportions of body and color prevent its reference 

 to T. ahaetulla. We await additional specimens before forming an opinion 

 respecting it. 



Philothamnus Smith. Type P. semivariegatus. 

 Zool. South Africa, pi. 59, 1849. 



182. P. n a t a 1 e n s i s Smith 1. c. pi. 64. 



We are not convinced of the identity of this species with P. Chenonii 

 {Leptophis Cheno7iii D. & B.) Dr. Leach's diagnosis of his Coluber irregu- 

 laris in the appendix to Bowditch's Ashantee, will probably apply equally 

 well to several species ; hence, we cannot adopt his name without more evidence 

 than has been offered. 

 One sp. Africa. Mr. Cuming, in ex. 



In this specimen the tail is rather longer in proportion to the body, than Dr. 

 Smith describes. The length of the former is thirteen inches ; of the latter, 

 nineteen. 



183. P. depressirostris nobis. 



Scales smooth, in fifteen rows, arranged as in T. Mexicanus, more 

 obliquely than in T. oc c i d e n t ali s. Length of tail to total length, as 

 one and one-third to three. Muzzle elongate, depressed, truncate ; rostral 

 plate twice as broad as high. Postnasal longer than prenasal ; loreal 

 three times as long as high. One pre-, two postoculars. Nine superior 

 labials, fifth and sixth entering the orbit. Eye very large, oval. Occipitals 

 broad anteriorly, narrow and truncate posteriorly, about equal to the vertical 

 in length. Dentition as in T. ahaetulla. Anal plate divided. Total length 

 45 in. 6 1. 



Coloration. Above uniform deep green ; beneath and upon the lips light 

 green. An inconspicuous temple streak. A very delicate black line traverses 

 the centre of each of the two rows of scales that bound the vertebral row, 

 extending from tiie nape to the origin of the tail. 



Habitat. Cocuyas de Veraguas, New Granada; one specimen, presented to 

 the Academy by Mr. Pi. W. Mitchell. 



I860.] 




558 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



This species bears considerable resemblance to T. occideatalis, but is 

 disting^uished by prominent characters. 



In the animal which is the subject of this description, an entozoon (Pentas- 

 tomum gracile) had entered the right internal nostril, and penetrating the 

 membranes of the meatus near its anterior orifice, had attached itself to the 

 periosteum in the right posterior sinus of the intermaxillary bone. The body 

 of the animal entirely filled the meatus, and extended as far as the mouth of 

 the oesophagus of the serpent. 



Gastropyxis nobis. Type G. smaragdina. 



Supra p. 556. 



184. G. smaragdina nobis. Dmdrophis smaraffdiniis Boie, 1827. Schlegel, 

 1837. Leptophis gracilis Hallow., 1844. Leptophis smaragdinus Dum. & Bibr,, 

 1854. Ahaetulla smaragdina Gthr., 1858. 



Four sp. Gaboon, W. Africa. Dr. Ford. 



One sp. Guinea. Mr. DuChaillu. 



One sp. Liberia. Dr. Goheen. 

 Onesp. ? ? 



COLUBRINJE. 



Petmnomiodon nobis. Type P. chalceus. 



Form slender, head moderately distinct. Cephalic plates normal : two nasals, 

 a loreal, one preocular. Scales carinate, arranged quincunially, those of the 

 vertebral series not larger. Gastro- and urosteges not angulated ; ihe latter 

 divided, the postabdominal plate entire. Pupil round. Palatine teeth very 

 little longer than pterygoids. Superior maxillary teeth minute posteriorly, 

 becoming much longer anteriorly; none grooved. 



In the system of the Erpetologie Generale, this genus might be placed near 

 Eugnathus D.^ B. Its true affinities are not with Euprotodon and Lycophidium, 

 but with Thrasops Hallow., and Thamnophis Fitz. (Eutcenia B. & G.), 

 being distinguished from the latter principally by the dentition, 



185. P. chalceus nobis. 



Similar in appearance to Thamnophis proximus nobis. Muzzle rather 

 narrow ; rostral plate nearly as high as broad. Vertical rather large, its 

 lateral borders converging, presenting a right angle posteriorly. Nasala 

 equal in size. Loreal trapezoid, posterior inferior angle acute, Preocular 

 not reaching vertical. Three postoculars. Eight superior labials, eye resting 

 on fourth and fifth. Nine or ten inferior labials ; post-geneials separated, longer 

 than the anterior. Scales in nineteen longitudinal rows, elongate, emarginate 

 at the tip, those of the external row not larger than the others, keeled. Gas- 

 trosges 152; urosteges? (tail mutilated). Length of body 11 in. 8 1. 



Coloration. Olivaceous above, shading into leek green upon the flanks, and 

 greenish-white upon the belly. A vertebral band of light green bordered with 

 black extends from the occipital plates to the origin of the tail, involving one 

 and two halves rows of scales. Another narrower and paler band extends upon 

 the third and fourth rows of scales upon each side from the neck to origin of 

 tail. This band is bounded above by an interrupted narrow black border. 

 Temporal region lively green, plates of head and muzzle tinged with fulvous. 

 Upper labials and preocular white : a narrow black postocnlar vitta. All the 

 plates and scales above and below, refulgent with a brilliant metallic lustre, as 

 in Ahaetulla sp. 

 One sp. Siam. Dr. W. S. W. Ruschenberger, 



Philodrtas "Wagler. Type P, 1 f e r s i i, 

 Nat. Syst. Amphib. 185, 1830. Chlorosoma lb. 1. c. Dryophylax Dum. & Bibr. 

 Erp. Gen. vii. 1103, 1854, nee Wagler, 1820. 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 559 



As Wdgler's name, Chlorosoma, as applied to this genus, is etymologically 

 untrue, we have followed Dr. Giinther in employing the name which immediately 

 succeeds it in the " Natiirliches Syst." 



186. P. 1 f e r s i i Wagl. 1. c. Herpetodryaa Olfersii Schl. Dryophylax Olfersii D. 



k B. One sp. Brazil. ? 



187. P. viridissimus Giinther. Chlorosoma viridissimum Wagl. 1. c. Her' 

 petodryas viridissimus Schl. Dryophylax viridissimus Dum. & Bibr. 



One sp. Surinam. Dr. Colhoun. 



One sp. Patr. ignot. ? 



188. P. crassifrons 7iobis. 



Expression slightly homalopsine : the eyes moi-e anterior and vertical, the 

 muzzle shorter, and the labials higher than is usual among tree-snakes. 

 Vertical plate nearly as broad as long ; occipitals broad, rounded. Postoculars 

 two ; preocular not reaching the vertical. Postfrontals broad transversely, 

 inferiorly bordered by the postnasals and third upper labial, suture with the for 

 mer longer. Superior outline of the rostral rounded. Nostril a slit ; nasals 

 confluent, posterior inferior angle acute. Loreal none. Superior labials eight, 

 all higher than long, except the first and last ; eye over the fourth and fifth, 

 small. One large and three small temporals bound the e^^erwai border of each, 

 occipital. Inferior labials ten or eleven, sixth largest, last two or three very 

 small. Pre-geneials longer than the posterior pair. Scales in nineteen long- 

 itudinal rows, smooth ; gastrosteges undulate near their extremities, obtusely 

 keeled. Gastrosteges 206, one divided anal, urosteges 123. 



Coloration. Above uniform dark green, beneath greenish-white, chin tinged 

 with yellowish. 

 One sp. Cayenne. Ga,rd. of "Plsints. (as Dryophylax piridisfimus) 



In the proportions of the body, this serpent much resembles the P. viridis- 

 simus, but even assuming that the absence of the loreal shield is accidental, 

 the proportions of the head and plates are different from those seen in our 

 specimens of that species, and in the published figures of it. 



GoNYosoMA Wagler. Type G. osycephalum. 

 Nat. Syst. Amphib. p. 184, 1830. 



189. G. oxy cephalu m Wagler. G^. wVjcfedo. Descr. eticon. Amphib, pi. 9. 

 One sp. Java. Dr. W. S. W. Ruschenberger. 



This specimen has 2 7 and 28 rows of scales upon the anterior part of the body. 



Chlorophis Hallow. Type C. heterodermus. 



Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1857, p. 61. 



Body cylindrical, tail not long ; head rather short, eyes large. Scales smooth, 

 anteriorly in oblique transverse series. Nasals two, nostrils between ; loreal 

 large ; one pre-, two postoculars. Gastrosteges faintly angular ; anal plate 

 entire, urosteges divided. Dentition syncranterian. 



We are inclined to regard the arrangement of the plates upon the muzzle of 

 the specimen from which Dr. Hallowell drew up his diagnosis, as abnormal. 

 Another specimen from Guinea exhibits the plates as described. This genus 

 seems to differ from Hapsidophrys Fisch., in having a shorter tail, as well as 

 smooth scales. 



190. C. heterodermus Hallow. 1. c. 



One sp. Gaboon. Dr. A. H. Ford. 



One sp. Guinea. P. B. DuChaillu. 



LioPELTis Fitz. Type L. trie lor. 



Systema Reptilium, 1848, p. 26. 



This genus differs from Chlorophis in having a single nasal plate, more 



I860.] 




560 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



depressed head, equal teeth, and bifid anal plate. It seems to include Herpeto- 

 dryas t ri c olo r Schleg., Cyclophis calaraaria Gthr., Cyclophis major 

 Gthr., and the species below-raentioned. The scales are not keeled and the 

 general form is less elongate than in Opheodrys Fitz. 



191. L. yevn&\is nobis. Coluber vernaUsT)eK&j,'Rolhrook, etc. Herpetodryas 

 vernalis Hallow., Proc. A. N. S. 185B, p. 243, Chlorosoma vernalis Bd. & Grd. 

 Cyclophis virnalis Gthr. 



Two sp. Nebraska. Dr. Hammond. 



Two sp. Kansas " 



One sp. Michigan. Dr. Miles. 



One sp. Allegheny Co. Penna. Mr. Trout, 



One sp. Berks Co. Penna. ? ? 



Two sp. Morris Co. N. J. Dr. J. C. Fisher. 



One sp. New Jersey. Mr. C. C. Abbott. 



One sp. Rhode Island. Mr. S. Powel. 



One sp. Massachusetts, Dr. Holbrook. 



Three sp. ? ? 



The most frequent anomaly in the arrangement of the plates of the head of 

 this species is the union of the nasal and loreal. Two labials are sometimes 

 confluent and the preocular is occasionally divided. 



Opheodkys Fitz. 

 Syst. Rent, 1843, p. 26. Cyclophis Gthr. Cat. Col. Brit. Mus. 1858, p. 119. 



192. 0. aestivus Fitz. Coluber ceslivus Linn. Herpetodryas cestivus Sch\eg.. 

 Dum. & Bibr.j Hallow. Leptophis cestiviis Bell., Eolbr., Bd. & Grd. Cyclophi 



Sagra's Hist, d'lle Cuba, 1840, p. 221. 



193. D. f u gi ti vu s G^ilAr. Col. fugiiivus Donnd. C. cursor Shaw. Herpeto- 

 dryas cursor Schleg. Dromicus cursor Bibr. 



Var. Gthr. One sp. Trinidad. Dr. S. W. Mitchell. 



One sp. ? ? 



?? Var. One sp. Martinique. Gard. Plants, in ex. 



194. D. a t e r Gthr. Natrix aira Gosse. 



One sp. Jamaica. Dr. Fisher. 



Four sp. ? ? 



195. D. a.ntil\ensis Bum. ^ Bibr. Psammophis an fillensis Schl. , 

 One sp. St. Thomas. Mr. Robt. Swift. 



Drymobids Fitz. Type D. margaritiferus. 



Syst. Kept. 1842, p. 26. 



a. One preocular plate. 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 561 



196. D. margaritiferus Fitz. Herpetodryas margariliferus Schl. Leptophis 

 margaritiferus Dum. & Bibr. Zamenis tricolor Hallow. Dromicus (.') margariti- 

 ferus Gihr. 



One sp. 'Omoa, Honduras. Dr. LeConte. 



One " Honduras. Dr. VVoodhouse. 



One " Panama, Dr. LeCoate. 



Three " Central America. Mr. Cuming, in e.^. 



197. D. BoddcBrtii nobis. Coluber Boddcertii Steetzen, 1795. Col. fuscus 

 Hallow. Proc. A. N. S. Phila. 1845, H. p. 241, nee Linn. Herpetodryas Boddcertii 

 SchIeg.,Dum. & Bibr., Gthr. 



Unicolor var. Two sp. Surinam. Mr. Wood. 



Two " Caraccas. Mr. Ashmead. 



One " ? Mr. Cuming, ex. 



One " Veragua, N.Grenada. Mr. R. W.Mitchell. 



Banded var. One " Caraccas. Mr. A. B. Durand. 



One " ? Mr. Cuming, ex. 



In the banded variety a light band runs along the fourth row of scales. la 

 our second specimen the light color of the abdomen involves the first two rows, 

 leaving a narrow brown band upon the third row, below the light one. 



198. D. R a p p i i no6/5. Herpetodryas Eappii Gthr., Cai&\. Sn&kes Brit. Mus. 

 1858, p. 116. 



One sp. Caraccas. Mr. Ashmead. 



Two " ? ? 



b. Preoculars two, scales keeled. Dcndrophidium Fitz. 



199. D. dendrophis nobis. Herpetodryas dendrophisSchleg., Gthr. H.Poilei 

 Dum. & Bibr. 



One sp. S. America. ? 



c. Preoculars two, scales smooth. Masticophis Bd. & Grd. 



200. D. flagelliformis nobis. Herpetodryas psammophis Schl. //. flagelli- 

 furviis Dum. & Bibr., Gthr. Psammophis fiagelli/ormis Holbr. Masticophis Jiagelli- 

 formis Bd. & Grd. 



One sp. Georgia. ? 



One sp. Young. S. Carolina. Dr. Blanding, (" Coluber reticularis."} 



201. D. t esta c e u s no6i«. Coluber testaceus Sa.j, 1853. Psammophis flavigu- 

 laris Hallow., 1852. Masticophis fiavigularis et testaceus Bd. & Grd., 1853. Her- 

 petodryas fiavigularis Hallow, et Gthr. (Quid Coryphodon testaceus? Gthr.) 

 Three sp. Texas. Dr. Heermann. 

 Two sp. Cross-Timbers, Ind. Ter'y. Dr. Woodhouse. 

 One sp. Cape St. Lucas, Lower Cal. Smithsonian Inst. 



In one of the specimens from Texas, the anterior part of the tail, and part of 

 the body are lustrous black; in all three the teeth are of alight sea-green 

 color, at their bases. In the specimen from Cape St. Lucas, the head is deep 

 brown; a liglU line extends anterior to the eye, and one along the median 

 upper labials, which sends a vertical branch to the postoculars. Throat and 

 chin brown with yellow variations, anterior part of the body crossed for a 

 short distance by ineomplete cross bands. (Vid. Hallowell, U. S. Pac, R. R. 

 Surv. Rept. x. Williamson's Exp. Reptiles, p. 12.) 



202. D. tseniatus nobis. Leptophis tceniata Hallow. Proc. Ac. Nat. Sci. Phil, 

 1852, p. 181. Masticophis tceniatus B. & G. Cat. Serp. 1853, 108. Leptophis later- 

 alis Hallow. Proc. Acad. 1853, p, Masticophis Schottii B, & G, Cat. Serp. 1853, 

 p. 160. 



The fundamental pattern of coloration in this species consists in a unicolor 



I860.] 




562 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



dorsal region, and lineated sides, a dark line running through the centre of each 

 row of scales upon the latter region and upon the ends of the gastrosteges. The 

 intervals between these lines may be variously shaded. When a light color 

 appears between each, we have the form taniatus. (U. S. Pac. R. R. Expl. 

 Rept. X. Beckwith's Rept. PI. xxiii.) When the intervals involving the ends of 

 the gastrosteges, the first, second and half the third rows of scales, are dark, half 

 the third and fourth being bright yellow, we have lateralis or Schottii. (Mex. 

 Bound. Surv. pi. 17.) Sometimes only the interval between the lines of the 

 second and third rows is dark : sometimes this occurs, the inferior half of the first 

 row being also shaded. The uniform olive brown of the back is formed by the con- 

 fluence of the widened longitudinal bands ; the exterior basal portions of the 

 dorsal scales, are however sometimes yellow, like the ground upon the sides. 

 One sp. California. Dr. Heermann. 



One sp. Arizona. Smiths. Inst. 



Herpetodrtas Boie. Type H. carinatus. 



Bullet, de Sci. Nat. et Geol. Octob., 1826, p. 237. Macropi Wagl. Nat. Syst. 

 Amphib. 1830, p. 



203. H. carinatus {Boie ) Schlegel. Herpetologists have distinguished two 

 species as confounded in the H. cjarinatus of Schlegel's Essai, and have 

 characterized them as possessing, the one, smooth scales, the other, cari- 

 nate. After a careful study of our specimens, we have arrived at the con- 

 clusion that there is no ground for ^regarding one series of specimens possess- 

 ing carinae upon the scales, as representing a species distinct from another 

 series, whose scales are keelless. Specimens in which two or three labials 

 enter the orbit and which have the anal divided, differ in this respect, as 

 do also those with an entire anal plate, and three or two upper labials 

 entering the orbit. A specimen from near Rio Janeiro is obviously 

 liatrix scurrula of Wagler, (Spix, Serp. Braz. pi.) Another specimen from 

 Surinam is quite as slender as Ahaetulla pi c ta. In color, specimens vary 

 from black olivaceous with a yellow dorsal line, and spots upon the first row of 

 scales upon the tail, to gray brown with oblique transverse bands. A speci- 

 men received from the Garden of Plants, exhibits two preoculars, and three 

 or four postoculars. That a careful anatomical investigation may demon- 

 strate the existence of several species among these individuals, is not improb- 

 able. 



Besides the synonymes ordinarily quoted under the " species" f u s cu s and 

 carinatus, there may be added. Coluber Spixii Hallowell, Proc. Phil. Acad, 

 ii. p. 241, and C. Pickeringii Hallow. 1. c. p. 242, 



Ten sp. Surinam. Dr. Hering. 



Three sp. (Types Hallow, sp.) Near Caraccas. Mr. Ashmead. 



One sp. (" Dendrophis viridis L), B.") Para. Col. Abert. 



One sp. Surinam. Dr. Colhoun. 



One sp. Rio Janeiro. ? 



One sp. ? Gard. Plants in ex. 



Three sp. ? ? 



204. H. sebastuB nobis. 



As a representative of its genus, this species is of a very elongate and com- 

 pressed form, with the scales arranged in transverse series, and with two 

 medial dorsal rows, larger than the others ; the dentition isodont. 



The specific characters are as follows : tail one-third the total length. 

 Scales large, in ten longitudinal rows, entirely smooth. Anal shield entire. 

 Head distinct from the neck, lanceolate. Eye large, superciliaries prominent. 

 Upper head shields large. Vertical elongate, broad anteriorly, lateral borders 

 concave, convergent. Post-frontals bent upon" the sides. Rostral as high as 

 broad. Nostril between two nasals, each of the latter higher than broad. 

 Loreal rectangular, longer than high. One preocular scarcely reaching the 

 vertical. Postoculars two, inferior largest ; the two bounded posteriorly by the 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 563 



occipital and a large temporal plate. As second large temporal, separating 

 the last upper labial from the occipital. Superior labials nine, fourth, fifth 

 and sixth entering the orbit ; seventh subtrigonal, last two elongate. Inferior 

 labials ten; post-genials longer than anterior. Gastrosteges not angulated, 

 153 in number. 



Coloration. — A light brownish fulvous, paler on the belly, darker upon the 

 occipital region. 



One specimen, native country unknown, but may perhaps prove to be from 

 Eastern Asia or Malaysia. 



Zaocys nobis. Type Z. dhnmnades. 



Form slender, verljebral line angular. Two medial series of dorsal scales : 

 those of the sides quincuncially arranged. Two nasals, one loreal, two pre- 

 ocular shields. 



The large isodont serpents which have the median dorsal line elevated into 

 a ridge, and the sides compressed more or less "era toiC appear to us to be 

 naturally distinguished as follows : 



A. Two median dorsal series of scales. 

 Herpetodryas. Scales in more or less transverse series, one preocular. 

 Zaocys. Scales. in quincunx ; two preoculars. 



B. One median dorsal series of scales. 



a. Loreals more than one. 

 Ptyas. Preoculars two or more. 



b. Not more than one loreal or preocular. 



Spilotes. Scales in sub-transverse series; head very distinct from neck; 



loreal trapezoidal. 

 Coelognathas. Scales quincuncial; head but little distinct; loreal trape- 

 zoidal. 

 Gonyosoma. Loreal three times as long as high or absent; muzzle very acute. 

 In proposing the name Zaocys for the Coryphodontes carinatus and 

 f u s c u s of Giinther. and in retaining Fitzinger's name Ptyas for the C. B 1 u - 

 m e n b a c h i i and C. k o r r o s of the Erpetologie General, we are giving ex- 

 pression to an opinion long held by us, as to the unnatural association of 

 species in the so-called genus Coryphodon, of those authors. In it we find 

 cylindrical terrestrial serpents united with compressed subarboricole species, 

 upon a peculiarity whose value as an index of nature appears to us entirely 

 imaginary. The very nature of the coryphodontian type of dentition as dis- 

 tinguished from the isodontian and syncranterian would lead us to infer its in- 

 constancy ; and it does exist, we believe, in species claimed to be isodont ; e. g. 

 in the genera Lampropeltis, Drymobius, etc. 



205. Z. dhumnades nobis. Coluber dhumnades Cantor, 1842. " C. nigromargi- 

 natus Blyth, 1855." Coryphodon carinatus Gthr., 1858. 



Three sp. Ningpo, China. Dr. McCartee. 



Besides the species of this genus, and of Herpetodryas, Dendrophis pseu- 

 dodipsasof Bianconi, from Mosambique, possesses two medial dorsal series 

 of scales. 



Ptyas Fitz. Type P. muco sus . 



Systema Reptilinm, p. 26, 1843. 



206. P. m uc OS us no6w. Coluber mucosus'Lm^. Col. Blumenbachii'UL^r^^^ ■ 

 Coryphodon Blumenbachii Dum. & Bibr. Ptyas Bluminbachii Fitz. 



One sp. East Indies, Mr. Yarrow. 



207. P. korros nobis. Coluber korros Reinwt, Schleg. Coryphodon korrof 

 Dum. & Bibr. Coluber cancellatus Oppel. 



One sp. (80 in.) Siam, Dr. Ruschenberger. 



One sp. ? ? 



I860.] 




564 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



Spilotes Wagler. Type S. pul 1 atu s. 



Natur. Sjst. Amphib. p. 179, 1830. Drymarchon et Thamnobius Fitz., 1843. 

 Georgia Baird and Girard, 1853. 



208. S. p u 11 a t u s TFa^rZ. Coluber jJuUaius Linn. Col.variabilisl>!enwied. Spi- 

 lotes variabilis Dum. & Bibr. 



One sp. Brazil, Dr. Strain. 



One sp. Surinam, Mr. Keller. 



One sp. S. America, Mr. Cuming in ex. 



Two sp. " ? 



209. S. poecilostoma Dum. & Bibr. Coluber poecilostoma Neuw. 

 One sp. S. America, ? 



210. ?S. poecilonotus Gthr. 



One sp. Caraccas, Mr. W. G. Boulton. 



Our specimen differs from Giinther's type, in having the carination of the 

 dorsal scales quite weak, the lateral borders of the vertical plate but little 

 concave, the last two upper labials confluent on both sides, and nearly all the 

 scales on the anterior half of the body with yellow centres. 



211. S. m e 1 a n u r u s Dum. ^- Bibr. 



One sp. Panama, Drs. Gallaer & Le Conte. 



One sp. Caraccas, Mr. Ashmead. 



This species is certainly very nearly allied to the S. c o r a i s , but we cannot 

 at present agree with GUnther in regarding it as the young of that species. 

 The cor a'i s is stouter in form, and does not probably exhibit a black tail, 

 and black lines upon the neck, at any age. 



212. S. corais Dum. ^ Bibr. Coluber cor a'i s Cuvier. 



One sp. (very large) Surinam, Dr. Hering. 



One sp. ^half grown) " " 



One sp. (very young) " Dr. Colhoun. 



In the young specimen there are forty-one pairs of oblique dark grey cross- 

 bands on the body above. 



213. S. erebennus nobis. Coluber obsoletus Uolhrook, not Say. Georgia 

 obsoleta Bd. & Grd. 



Independently of color, this species differs from the corals in the shorter 

 loreal, longer inferior postocular, and longer external longihidinal border of 

 occipital plate. The fifth and seventh superior labials are entirely separated 

 by the sixth. 

 One sp. Eagle Pass, Texas, Smithsonian Inst. 



214. S. Coupe ri woits. Coluber Couperi^oVorodk. Georgia Cotiperi Bd.k Gird. 

 In this noble species tliere is one superior labial less than in S. corals: 



the fifth and seventh labial plates form a suture above the sixth, as in that serpent. 

 One sp. Georgia, Dr. Holbrook. 



CoELOGNATHUs Fitzingcr. Type C. r a d i a t a . 



Syst. Rept. p. 26, 1843. Compsosoma Dumeril, Prodrome de la Class. Ophid. 

 p. 57, 1853. Spilotes Giinther, 1858, nee Wagler, 1830. 



Coluber reticularis Cantor &nd Spilotes Hodgsonii Gthr. belong to this 

 genus. 



215. C. melanura. Coluber melanurus Schl. Compsosoma melanurum Dum. 

 Spilotes melanurus Gthr. 



One sp. Java, Gard. Plants, Paris, in ex. 



This specimen agrees exactly with Herr Schlegel's description, though sent 

 with the label " C. radiatum, Var. B, D. & B." 



216. C. limicolor nobis. 



Cynophis Gray. Type C. h e 1 e n a . 

 Ann. Mag. Nat. Hist., 1847. p. 246. PZff^iWojjDum.Erp.Gen.vii. p. 169, 1854. 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 565 



217. C h elena, GUnther. Coluber helena'Ddwd. , 1802. Cynophis bistrigatu 

 Gray, 1. c, 1849. 



Our single specimen differs slightly from descriptions in the arrangement of 

 the colors upon the upper surface of the body. Hence we append the following 

 notes. 



Scales small, entirely smooth, in twenty-seven longitudinal series. Tail two- 

 ninths the entire length. Head slightly distinct, acute. Rostral plate rather 

 prominent, as high as broad, visible from above. Two small supplemental 

 plates betAveen it and the prefrontals : the latter as long as broad. Postfrontals 

 longer than broad ; superciliaries narrow ; vertical rather broad anteriorly, 

 elongate, the lateral borders straight, and so convergent as to render it almost 

 trilateral. Occipitals elongate truncate posteriorly, two elongate temporals 

 bound the external border. Nasals two, large, nostrils between; loreal longer 

 than high, the posterior border curved oblique. Preocular large, reaching the 

 vertical, rugulose ; postoculars two. Superior labials ten, eye resting on the 

 fifth, sixth and seventh ; eighth longer than high, ninth higher than long, both 

 bounded above by an elongate temporal. Inferior labials twelve, seventh 

 largest; pregeneials longer than postgeneials. Postabdominal scute entire. 

 Gastrosteges 223, a little recurved upon the sides ; urosteges 88 pair. Totaj 

 length, 29 in. 3 1., of tail 6 in. 6 1. 



Coloration. Under surface light j'ellow, with a few black specks upon the 

 extremities of the scales anteriorly. Above a delicate fawn brown, the two 

 inferior rows of scales paler. Anterior to the middle of the body, the scales 

 of the rows between the third and tenth assume a darker shade ; this becomes 

 a distinct lateral band posteriorly, and extends to the extremity of the tail. 

 On the anterior third of the body, the skin, upon being stretched, exhibits the 

 following pattern. Pale trigonal areas, alternating and extending from the me- 

 dian line to the ninth row of scales upon each side. A series of small light spots 

 upon the eighth row alternates with these. Lower down, opposite to the first, 

 are diamond shaped pale areas, and a second row of larger alternating spots 

 upon the second, third and fourth rows of scales. The spots of this and of 

 the upper series become larger anteriorly, and are bordered above and below 

 with black ; the pale areas become obsolete. There are two parallel black 

 lines upon the neck ; one oblique, upon each side of the neck; one extending 

 from the eye to the mouth, upon the upper border of the eighth superior labial, 

 and an obscure one upon the common suture of the occipitals. 

 One sp. Ceylon, Mr. Cuming in ex. 



Elaphe Fitzinger. Type E. ?sauromates. 



la Wagler's Icones Amphibiorum, 1833, pi. 27. Syst. Kept., 1843, p. 26. 

 Elaphis Gthr. Catal., 1858, p. 92, nee Dum. & Bibr., 1854. 



218. E. quaterradiatus. Tropidonotus elaphis Wagl. Natrix elaphis 

 Bonap. Elaphis quaterradiatus Dum. & Bib. 



aix sp. Italy, Dr. Wilson. (Bp. Coll.) 



219. E. tseniurus nobis. 



As in many other serpents of Eastern Asia, the maxillary and mandibular 

 teeth become gradually longer anteriorly. Head slightly distinct, lanceolate, 

 muzzle obtuse. Tail one-fifth the total length, flat beneath. Twenty-five 

 rows of scales, those from the ninth to the sixteenth keeled. Rostral plate 

 broader than high, the labial suture one-third the nasal, less than the pre- 

 frontal. Eight superior labials, fourth and fifth bounding the orbit. Seventh 

 much longer than high, bounded above by a long temporal, and by a short 

 one, which also bounds the eighth labial. Postoculars two, superior largest. 

 Preoculars two, as in other species of the genus, the superior very large, its 

 horizontal diameter greater than the length of the loreal. The latter plate 

 much longer than high. Postfrontals large, bent upon the sides. Anterior 



I860.] 39 




566 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



border of the vertical shorter than the straight, convergent lateral ; posterior 

 angle obtuse. Superciliaries large. Occipitals elongate, external borders 

 convergent, bounded by two long temporals. Inferior labials ten, eleven, or 

 twelve. Gastrosteges 232 ; one divided anal ; urosteges 101 pair. Total 

 length of specimen from Xingpo 64 in., tail 13 in. ; specimen from Slam 30 in,, 

 tail 6 in., 3 lines. 



Coloration. Above, an olivaceous ash, or clay color, more olive anteriorly. 

 A blackish lateral band extends from the tip of the tail, throughout the poste- 

 rior third of the body, where it extends from the second to the ninth rows of 

 scales, reducing the ground color to a dorsal stripe of three or four scales in 

 width. It is divided by a number of irregular narrow vertical lines, at regular 

 distances. The superior border is prolonged upon the anterior two-thirds of 

 the body as an irregular, narrow, longitudinal black band, connected with 

 that of the opposite side by similar short transverse bands at distances of four 

 or five scales. Irregular black borders and centres of the median lateral 

 scales, are the only indications of the inferior part of the lateral band anterior- 

 ly. Gastrosteges tipped with black anteriorly ; the central parts become 

 gradually darker posteriorly, but finally give place to a yellow median band 

 which extends to the tip of the tail. This is bounded by a blackish band on 

 each side, which is separated from that of the sides by another yellow one, 

 which involves the tips of the gastrosteges, and first row of scales. The only 

 marking upon the head is a black postocular vitta, which extends along the 

 upper borders of the labials and no farther, parallel to the commissure of the 

 mouth. Pectus, throat, chin and superior labials yellowish. 



One sp. Ningpo, Dr. McCartee. 



One sp. Siam, Dr. J. E. Simple, U. S. N. 



"We can find no notice of this fine serpent, except a brief description appended 

 to specimen c under Elaphis v i r g a t u s of the British Museum Catalogue. 

 This specimen, which is from Chikiang, China, most probably belongs to the 

 present species. Elaphis virgatus differs from taeniurus in its more 

 elevated rostral with more equal borders, its shorter loreal and preocular, 

 etc. 



E. bilineatus Hallowell, Proc. Acad., 1860, p. 497, from Japan, is near- 

 ly allied to, if not a variety of, E. q u a d r i v i r g a t u s Gtkr. 



Note. — In these Proceedings, 1860, p. 241, we characterized a genus of ser- 

 pents from West Africa, having entire urosteges, under the name Pariaspis. 

 This name we find must give way to Elapops, Gthr., of a few months prior 

 date; vid. Ann. Mag. Nat. Hist. 1859, 151. E. modestus Glhr., appears to 

 differ from E, p 1 u m b e a t e r in having but one postocular, two temporaLs 

 bounding the occipital instead of one, and in color. In the latter species there 

 is no shade of olivaceous. The plate represents a rather broader vertical and 

 perhaps a smaller rostral. We look for further specimens to substantiate these 

 differences. 



Oxyrhopus melanocrotaphus nobis, 1. c, p. 260, is apparently Crotaphopeltis 

 rufescens Fitz. The latter genus differs from Sibon in its entire anal plate. 



Phimothyra nobis, 1. c, p. 253, is intended to take the Tpla.ce of Salvadora Bd. 

 k Grd., the latter name having been previously applied by Linnaeus to a genus 

 of plants. 



Phyllobates a u r a t u s , 1. c, p. 372, was erroneously stated to inhabit Chili. 

 It has as yet been found only on the Island of Taboga, Bay of Panama. 



We are authorized to state that Lampropeltis multistriata Kennicott, 1. c, 

 p. 328, is a misprint for L. m u Itistrata Kenn. 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 567 



Descriptions of some New Species of Tertiary Fossils from Chiriqui, Central 



America. 



BY W. M. GABB. 



The following species were collected by Dr. John Evans during his examina- 

 tions, under the patronage of the U. S. Government, in Chiriqui. I have, as 

 yet, received no definite information in regard to their exact locality or geo- 

 logical position. The material is too scant to form a definite idea in regard to 

 their age, but I believe them to be Miocene. Full information on the subject 

 will be contained in Dr. Evans's report. It is worthy of notice that among a 

 large number of specimens there should be so few species. The matrix is a 

 dark, almost black, highly bituminous shale. 



Terebra. 



T. E V a n s i i . Shell turrited, whorls about eight or nine, angulated above ; 

 suture distinct ; surface polished and marked by an impressed line about a 

 third of the width of the whorl from the upper edge ; below marked by several 

 faint revolving lines. Aperture subquadrate, columella somewhat prolonged, 

 tortuous, and with two faint folds ; outer lip sinuous, most prominent near the 

 lower part of the mouth. Rather common. 



Dimensions. — Length, 1 inch ; width of body-whorl, -5 in. ; length of aper- 

 ture, -4 in. 



Tellina. 



T. s e m i 1 ae V i s . Shell subtriangular, truncate posteriorly, inequilateral ; 

 beaks one-third of the distance from the posterior extremity, with a faint 

 angulation extending from them, parallel with the posterior side, to the 

 margin ; posterior side nearly straight ; posterior angle obtuse ; anterior end 

 regularly rounded ; surface, in the young state, smooth ; in the adults, with the 

 marginal half concentrically striate. Very rare. 



Dimensions. — Length, -6 in.; width, -To in.; thickness, -35 in. 



Chione. 



C. sulcata. Shell ventricose, robust, produced posteriorly; umbones 

 large and roiind ; anterior margin regularly rounded, basal sinuous, posterior 

 nearly straight. Umbonal ridge rounded, with the shell posterior to it at a 

 right angle with the rest of the shell, and with a very distinct depression or 

 sulcus anterior to it. Surface marked by about twenty heavy transverse ribs, 

 crossed by numerous radiating impressed lines. Inner margin crenulate 

 Rare. 



Dimensions. — Length, 6 in.; width, -8 in.; thickness, '6 in. 



Arca. 



A. Chiriquiensis. Ventricose, inequilateral, umbones very large ; 

 hinge line short, with the teeth very small and at right angles to the hinge. 

 Surface marked by numerous radiating ribs, with the depressions between 

 them of about the same size as the ribs : these are crossed by very distinct 

 lines of growth ; and on the ribs are numerous small nodes, which appear to 

 be independent of the lines of growth, and are not merely squamose elevations. 

 These nodes are most prominent on the anterior ribs, and become gradually 

 fainter posteriorly until, posterior to the umbonal ridge, they disappear. Area 

 wide and marked by very few angular lines. This species is exceedingly 

 common, and is sometimes nearly three inches across. 



Dimensions of the most perfect specimen. — Length, 1-5 in.; width, 1-6 in. ; depth 

 of valve, -8 in. 



Membranipora. 



M. speciosa Oabb and Horn. Colony in small encrusting patches, com- 

 1860.] 




568 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



posed of cells arranged in irregular lines ; cells large, broadly oval ; openings of 

 the same shape as the cells, though smaller, by the projection inwards of the 

 wall of the cell. Between the cells are numerous small interspaces formed by 

 the inaccurate apposition of the cells. In this species we found no ovarian 

 vesicles. The common base of the colony is longitudinally and obliquely striate. 



Bescriptions of Three New Species of Starfishes from Cape St. Lucas. 

 BY JOHN XANTUS. 



1. ASTERIAS SERTULIFERA, XantUS. 



With five moderately tapering and somewhat angular arms. Length of each 

 arm about two and a quarter times the diameter of the disk. Ambulacral 

 spines very slender, flattened, linear, mostly in a single row. Exterior to them, 

 on the ventral side, a double or treble row of stouter spines of equal length, 

 also somewhat flattened, with blunt extremities. Back of the arm with five 

 pretty regular rows of cylindrical or moderately-tapering spines nearly as large 

 as those on the belly. The lateral rows are more regular than the others, and 

 the spines of these rows arise from a very regular series of subtriangular 

 ossicles, one spine to every alternate ossicle. These back-spines are all 

 crowned at or near their tips with a thick wreath of minute pedicellariae. No 

 pedicellariffi in the intervals between the spines. Rarely a large pedicellaria 

 in the ambulacral furrows. 



Diameter, four and a half inches. 



Related to A. glacialis. 



Found on rocks at low-water mark. 



2. Heliaster microbrachia, Xantus. 



Arms thirty-five in number, each in length forming about one-eighth the 

 entire diameter of the body. Ambulacral pores very small, in four rows. 

 Ambulacral spines stout, blunt, and forming a single row. Lateral spines of 

 the arms compressed, very broad and flat, often bifurcated at their extremities. 

 Dorsal spines very small and numerous, uniformly distributed, scattered with- 

 out order over the surface of the disk and arms. 



Diameter, seven inches. 



3. Heliaster kubiniji, Xantus. 



Arms twenty-two to twenty-four in number, each in length forming rather 

 less than one-third the whole diameter of the body. Ambulacral spines in a 

 single row. Ventral spines compressed at their extremities. Dorsal spines 

 capitate, in four to six series on the back of the arms ; on the disk much 

 larger and less numerous, and with flat or even concave tops. Pedicellariae 

 thickly distributed between the spines. 



Diameter, seven inches. 



Collected at Cerro Blanco, off' Cape St. Lucas. 



I take pleasure in dedicating this species to my countryman M. Kubiniji, the 

 accomplished Director of the Hungarian National Museum at Pesth. 



Type specimens of all of the above species have been transmitted to the 

 Museum of the Smithsonian Institution. 



Descriptions of Two New Species of Pimelodus, from Kansas. 



BY CHARLBS C. ABBOTT. 



1 Pimelodus Hammondii, Abbott. — Spec. char. Body slender, elon- 

 gated, and much compressed; the dorsal outline anterior to the dorsal fin, and 

 the facial outline, descend obliauelj to the margin of the jaws, without curva- 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 669 



ture. The head is much depressed, and very broad, constituting some-what 

 less than one-fifth of the total length. The mouth is small, and has the upper 

 jaw the longer. The maxillar barbies extend a slight distance beyond the 

 branchial aperture. The eye is of medium size, circular ; its diameter enter- 

 ing six times in the length of the side of the head ; the orbits are nearly four 

 diameters apart. The spine of the dorsal fin is perfectly smooth ; and the spine 

 of the pectoral very coarsely serrated. The caudal fin is moderately forked. • 



5 



The numbers of the fin rays are D, 1-6. P, I-IO. V, 8. A, 24. C, 27- 



5 



Color. In alcoholic specimens, the head, back and upper half of the sides are 

 bright sienna; the belly silvery white. Margin of the dorsal, caudal, and anal 

 fins, glossy black; the marking on the anal broader and not so deep. Numer- 

 ous small, circular black spots are scattered irregularly over the body, in ap- 

 pearance similar to those of the Trout (^S. fontinalis), except in color. 



Habitat. Fort Reily, Kansas. 



This species is named in honor of Dr. Wm. A. Hammond, who has presented 

 the Academy with many new and valuable western fishes. 



2. Pimelodns notatus, Abbott. — Spec. char. The head and body are 

 very much compressed, and the body tapers rapTdly to the tail. The peduncle 

 of the tail is slender and increases in width as it approaches the insertion of the 

 fin. The facial outline is very oblique, and with the dorsal outline makes con- 

 siderable curvature, from the anterior insertion of the dorsal fin to the extrem- 

 ity of the upper jaw. The eyes are large, situated equidistantly between the 

 extremity of the upper jaw and margin of the opercle ; the diameter of the orbit 

 is contained four times in the length of the side of the head. The spines of 

 both dorsal and pectoral fins are finally serrated. The anterior insertion of 

 the dorsal fin is equidistant between the insertions of the pectoral and ventjal 

 fins. The extremities of the rays of the pectoral extend to the insertion of the 

 ventral fins. The extremities of the rays of the ventral extend beyond the an- 

 terior insertion of the anal fin. The anal fin is large ; the base equal to one- 

 fourth of the total length. The caudal fin is very deeply forked. 



The numbers of the fin-rays are D, V, A, C, 



Color. In alcoholic specimens, the head and back are umber color ; sides and 

 belly yellowish, with metallic lustre. A circular black spot exists at the 

 origin of the lateral line. 



Total length seven inches. 



Habitat. Fort Reily, Kansas. 



Dr. Wm. A. Hammond has presented the Academy with a single specimen of 

 this Pimelodus. 



Descriptions of new Nortli American Coleoptera, in the Cabinet of the 

 Entomological Society of Philadelphia. 



BY GEO. H. HORN. 



NOMARETUS Lee. 



N. imperfectus . — Black, smooth and glossy ; antennae and palpi rufous ; 

 thorax cordate, canaliculate, narrowed posteriorly, with a slight transverse 

 and rather deep basal impression; elytra each four striate, striae punctate, 

 and decreasing in length from the suture outwardly, fourth stria obsolescent, 

 the arrangement of the stria forms an oblong space, which is slightly flattened, 

 sides of elytra smooth and glossy. 



Length -40. 



Plate 8, fig. 1 . 



This beautiful little insect, of which but few specimens have been obtained, 

 has been found only in Hampshire county, Virginia, in the most rocky portions 



I860.] 




570 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



of the Allegheny ridge, which traverses that section. The species may be 

 easily distingnished from any other of this genus, by its four striate elytra, 

 the species previously described have their elytra ten or eleven striate. 



ARHOPALUS, Serv. 



A. Wilsonii . — Brovrn, head large, eyes and tip of mandibles black ; an- 

 tennae long, equalling, in males, one and a half times the length of the insect ; 

 thorax spheroidal, faintly margined anteriorly and posteriorly with yellow ; 

 elj^tra each with a short basal band of yellow, which does not extend com- 

 pletely over the humerus, an oblique yellow band a little before the middle, 

 which widens as it passes outwardly, with a marginal and a faint sutural ex- 

 tension of the same towards the base of the elj-tra ; femora slightly clavate ; 

 posterior tibiae much flattened, curved, and blackish towards the tips ; tarsi 

 testaceous, claws black. 



Length, -75. 



Plate 8, fig. 4. 



Two specimens. Comal count}-, Texas. It affords me pleasure to dedicate 

 this beautiful species to my friend. Dr. Thomas B. Wilson, whose labors for ento- 

 mological science I endeavor to acknowledge. 



CLYTUS, Fabr. 



C. n i t i d u s . — Black, antennge short, head large, with two vertical yellow 

 lines ; thorax spheroidal, margined anteriorly and posteriorly with yellow, at 

 the posterior third are four short yellow bands in one transverse row ; elytra 

 with four yellow bands, the third and fourth transverse, the latter terminal, 

 the anterior two bands oblique, and united by a sutural stripe; an obsolete 

 patch of yellow near the humerus ; incisures margined with yellow ; sides of 

 pectus yellow; legs rufous, hairy; posterior pair elongate; femora clavate, 

 covered with minute cinereous hairs, and blackish towards the tips ; posterior 

 femora not spinous. 



Length, -42 — -50. 



Plate 8, fig. 2. 



Only two specimens have been examined. It may be worthy of notice that 

 these were obtained from widely separated localities. The specimen in the 

 Society's cabinet was taken in Comal county, Texas, while that in the collec- 

 tion of Mr. George Newman was obtained in Gloucester county, N. J. They 

 have been several times compared, and have been found to differ only in size, 

 the Texas specimen being the larger. 



LEPTURA, Linn. 



L. a u r a t a . — Yellowish ; eyes black ; labrum sometimes of a metallic 

 green color ; head and thorax rufous, the latter somewhat globular, much con- 

 tracted anteriorly and slightly posteriori}^ ; elytra yellowish, clothed with short 

 golden hairs, densely punctured, slightly narrowed posteriorly, with a lateral 

 and a sutural stripe on each, extending over three-fourths of the length of the 

 elytra. The lateral stripe is sometimes broad and clavate ; legs yellowish ; 

 femora more or less clavate. 



Length, -32— -34. 



Plate 8, fig. 5. 



Allegheny Ridge, Western Virginia. Abundant. The male of this species 

 is much smaller than the female, more slender in form, and elytra much more 

 narrowed toward the apex, and the lateral and sutural stripes not so broad. 



L. nitidicoll is. — Black; first joint of the antenna; brown; mandibles 

 and palpi yellowish, with the tip of the former and last joint of the latter 

 blackish ; head and thorax glossy, the latter narrowed in front, obtusely 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 57l 



angulated at the sides, dorsal line distinct; elytra gradually tapering 

 toward the apex, which is round, a linear marginal, and a median yellowish 

 stripe on each elytron, extending neai-ly to the apex, where it becomes confluent 

 with the suture, the median is suddenh' expanded anteriorly to the scutel, and 

 posteriorly from the suture outward; legs rufous; femora slightly clavate, and 

 black toward the tips. 



Length, -32— -36. 



Plate 8, fig. 6. 



Allegheny Ridge, Western Virginia. This species varies by the posterior 

 fourth of the median stripe in some specimens tapeiung to a point, and in others 

 it is separated from the remainder of the stripe. 



The male, as in the former species, is smaller and more slender in form than 

 the female. 



.BGILOPSIS. 



Antennaj approximate, longer than the body, densely pilose beneath, first 

 joint cylindrical, equalling in length the third or fourth joint. 



Eyes lateral, slightly angulate posterioiiy, front elongated, inflexed ; head 

 and prothorax of equal breadth ; elytHi somewhat broader; prothorax un- 

 armed ; ungues not connate at base. 



This genus belongs in the same group of the Lamiie, with the American 

 genera Hippopsis and Spacalopsis. 



A. cinerea. — Elongate, cinereous, antennae black, with the proximal 

 extremity of the joints ringed with ash color; thorax cylindrical, much longer 

 than wide, with four longitudinal dark stripes, two lateral, and two close 

 together on the superior surface ; elytra, with two dark obsolete stripes on 

 each, one sutural and the other traversing the middle of each elytron; sparsely 

 punctured, with black, erect hairs scattered over the surface; apices of elytra 

 spinous, and slightly pilose. 



Length, -25— -30. 



Plate 8, fig. 7. 



The Society possesses two specimens ; they were taken in Comal county, 

 Texas, by E. T. Cresson. 



EURYOPTERA. 



Eyes deeply emarginate ; palpi nearly equal ; labrum not emarginate ; an- 

 terior coxae not contiguous ; meso-sternum triangular, apex acute. 



E. sangu inicollis. — Black, opaque, finely granulate, head black, antennae 

 black, brownish toward the tips, slightly pilose ; thorax bright red, slightly 

 canaliculate, twice as broad as long, obtusely angulated on the sides, much 

 contracted posteriorly, narrower than the elytra ; elytra black, sides flattened 

 anteriorly, narrowed in the middle, and much broader posteriorly; legs black, 

 pilose ; femora strongly clavate ; tarsi clothed underneath with silvery white 

 pubescence. 



Length, -54. 



Plate 8, fig. 3. 



Northern New York, Mr. T. B. Ashton. The general appearance of this 

 beautiful insect, is that of a Callidium, with a slightly canaliculate thorax ; it 

 differs, however, in the non-contiguity of the anterior cox*. 



The Reports of the llecording Secretary, Librarian and Curators 

 were read, as follows : — 



I860.] 




572 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



REPORT OF THE RECORDING SECRETARY FOR 1860. 



During the year ending 30tli November, 1860, there have been elected 

 twenty-one members and six correspondents. 



One member has resigned. 



Three members have forfeited their membership. 



The elections of four members have been reconsidered and declared null and 

 void under Art. IV. of Chapter II. of the By-laws. 



Seven members have died, to wit : Major John Le Conte, late Vice-President 

 of the Academy, Mr. George W. Carpenter, late Treasurer of the Academy, 

 Edward Hallo well, M. D., Mr. Augustus E. Jessup, Mr. Peter A. Browne. 

 Bernard Henry, M. D., Henry Clay Caldwell, M. D., late U. S. Navy. 



The deaths of the following correspondents have been announced : Mr. Vic- 

 tor Andubon, Prof. A. M. C. Dumeril, Dr. David Dale Owen. 



On the 26th of June, Mr. William C. Henszey was unanimously elected 

 Treasurer, to fill the vacancy occasioned by the death of Mr. George W. Car- 

 penter. 



During the same period the following papers were read before the Academy, 

 and published in its Proceedings and vloarnal, except one of those read before 

 the Biological Department, which was published in a medical Journal select- 

 ed by the author, Mr. Gabb's Catalogue of the Museum and Dr. Fisher's 

 Index, not yet printed. 



By J. G. Anthony: "Descriptions of new Species of American fluviatile 

 Gasterpods." 



By Charles C. Abbott, six, to wit : " Descriptions of new Species of Ameri- 

 can fresh-water Fishes." "Description of a new Species of Chatoessus, etc." 

 "Descriptions of new Species of North American Cyprinidse." "Description 

 of a new species of Exocetus from Chili." "Descriptions of new Species of 

 apodal Fishes, etc." 



By W. G. Binney, two, to wit : "Notes on American Land Shells, No. 6." 

 "Description of new Species of Pulmonata, etc." 



By J. B. Buckley, three, to wit : " Texas Ants." "The Stinging or Mound- 

 making Ant of Texas, etc." " Descriptions of several new Species of Plants." 



By P. P. Carpenter, " Notice of a Collection of Shells, made at Cape San 

 Lucas, Lower California." 



By John Cassin, four, to wit: "Catalogue of a Collection of Birds, made 

 during the survey of a route for a ship canal across the Isthmus of Darien, 

 etc., with notes and descriptions of new species," two papers. " Descriptions 

 of new Birds of Western Africa, etc.," published in the Journal. " Catalogue 

 of Birds from the Islajid of St. Thomas, W. I., etc." 



By Brackenridge Clemens, M. D., five, to wit : " Contributions to American 

 Lepidopterology, " parts 3, 4, 5, 6, 7. 



By T. A. Conrad, three, to wit : " Descriptions of new Cretaceous and Eocene 

 Shells of Mississippi and Alabama, etc.," two papers, published in the Journal. 

 "Notes on Shells." 



By E. D. Cope, eight, to wit: "Catalogue of the Venomous Serpents in the 

 Museum of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, etc.," two pa- 

 pers. "Catalogue of the Calamarian Serpents in the Museum of the Academy 

 of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia," " Catalogue of the Colubridae, in the 

 Museum of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia," with notes and 

 descriptions of new Species. " Notes and Descriptions of new and little-known 

 American Reptiles." "Descriptions of Reptiles from tropical America and 

 Asia." "The Reptilia of the North Pacific Exploring Expedition, etc., by 

 Edward Hallowell, M. D., edited by E. D. Cope." " Descriptions of new Species 

 of the Reptilian Genera Hyperolius, Liuperus and Tropidodipsas." 



By Rafael Montes d'Oca, four, to wit: "The Mexican Humming Birds," 

 parts 1, 2, 3 and 4. 

 By James C. Fisher, M. D. : "Index to the Genera described or referred to 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 578 



in the first series of the Proceedings of the Academy of Natural Sciences of 

 Philadelphia, vols. i. to viii. part 1." 



By William M. Gabb, ten, to wit: "Descriptions of new Species of Fossils, 

 probably Triassic, from Virginia," published in the Journal. "Descriptions 

 of new Species of Cretaceous Fossils," published in the Journal. "Descrip- 

 tions of new Species of Cretaceous Fossils from New Jersey.'' " Descriptions 

 of some Cretaceous Fossils from South America, etc." "On the identity of 

 Ammonites Texaaus, Picemer, and A. vespertinus, Morton." "Catalogue of 

 the Museum of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia." "De- 

 scription of a new Species of Cephalopods from the Eocene of Texas." " De- 

 scriptions of new Species of Cretaceous and Tertiary Fossils," published in 

 the Journal. " Descriptions of a new Species of Cassidulus, etc." " Descrip- 

 tions of a new Genera and Species of Amorphozoa, etc." 



By Wm. M. Gabb and George H. Horn, "Descriptions of new Cretaceous 

 Corals from New Jersey." 



By Theodore Gill, six, to wit : "Notes on the Nomenclature of North Ameri- 

 can Fishes." "Oa the jjertinence of tLe Alosa teres, DeKay, to the Genus 

 Dussumiera. " " Cons2)ectU3 Piscium in Expeditione ad Oceanum Pacificum 

 septentrionalem C. Ringgold et J. Rodgers ducibus a W. Stimpson, M. D., col- 

 lectorum : Sicydiauiae." " Monograph of the Genus Labrisomus." "Mono- 

 graph of the Genus Labrax, Cuv." "Monograph of the Philvpni." 



By W. A. Hammond, M. D., U. S. A., and S. W. Mitchell, M. D. : "On 

 the physical and chemical characteristics of Corroval and Vao, etc.. and on a 

 new alkaloid containing their active principle." 



By George H. Horn, three, to wit : "Descriptions of three new species of 

 Gorgonid«." "On Milne Edwards' Synonymy of Xiphigorgia setacea." 

 "Descriptions of new Corals in the Museum of the Academy of Natural 

 Sciences of Philadelphia." 



By Robert Kennicott, " Descriptions of new North American Reptiles, etc." 



By J. W. Lapham, ' ■ A list of the Fresh-water Shells of the State of Wiscon- 

 i^in." 



By Isaac Lea, LL.D., thirteen, to wit: " Description of three new Species 

 of Exotic Uniones." "Description of Exotic Unionidae," published in the 

 Journal. " Description of four new Species of Unionida3." "Description of 

 fifteen new Species of Uruguayan Uniouidse." " Descriptions of live new Species 

 of Uniones from Alabama." " Descriptions of four new Species of Melaniania 

 of the United States." "Descriptions of fourteen new Species of Schizostoma, 

 Annulosa and Lithasia." "Descriptions of two new Species of Uniones from 

 Georgia." " Descriptions of tliree new Species of Uniones from Mexico." 

 "Descriptions of six new Species of Unionidae fiom Alabama." " Descriptions 

 of seven new Species of Unionidae from the United States." " Descriptions of 

 three new Species of Exotic Unionidae." " New Unionidae of the United States 

 and Northern Mexico," published in the Journal. 



By John L. LeConte, M. D., two, to wit: "Notes on Coleoptera found at 

 Fort Simpson, Mackenzie River, etc." "Synopsis of the Scaphidiidae of the 

 United States." 



By James Lewis, M. D.: " Catalogue of the shell-bearing MoUusca observed 

 in the vicinity of Mohawk, N. Y. , etc." 



By F. B. Meek, " Description of new fossil remains collected in Nebraska 

 and Utah, etc." 



By F. B. Meek and F. V. Hayden, M. D., two, to wit : " Descriptions of new 

 Organic Remains from the Tertiary, Cretaceous and Jurassic rocks of Nebraska. ' ' 

 " Systematic Catalogue, with syuonymj^, etc., of Jurassic, Tertiary and Creta- 

 ceous Fossils, collected in Nebraska, etc." 



By F. B. Meek and A. H. Worthen, two, to wit: " Descriptions of new Spe- 

 cies of Crinoidea, etc." " Descriptions of new Carboniferous Fossils, etc." 



By James Aitken Meigs, M. D.: "Observations on ihe form of the Occiput 

 in the various races of men." 



I860.] 




')74 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



By R. Ostensacken, "Appendix to the paper entitled 'new G-enera aud 

 Species of North American Tipulidre with short palpi.' " 



By Temple Prime, two, to wit : " Descriptions of new Species of Cyrena and 

 Corbicula, etc." " Synonymy of the Cyclades, etc., part 3." 



By John H. Redfield, " Descriptions of a new Species of Marginella." 



By Henry D. Schmidt, ' ' Metliod of painting moist anatomical preparations. ' ' 



By Capt. J. H. Simpson, "Notice of Greological Discoveries, etc." 



By H. T. Stainton, (London), " Observations on American Tineina." 



By William Stimpson. "Prodromus Desjriptionis Animalium evertebra- 

 torum, etc. Pars viii. Crustacea Macrnra." 



By Philip R. Uhler, " Hemiptera of the North Pacific Exploring Expedition, 

 etc." 



By Alexander Wilcocks, M. D.: "Reflections upon the nature of the tem- 

 porary star of the year 1572, etc." published in the Journal. 



By Horatio C. Wood, Jr., three, to wit : "Contributions to the Carbonifer- 

 ous Flora of the United States," Nos. 1 and 2. " Catalogue of Carboniferous 

 Plants in the Museum of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia." 



By J. J. Woodward, M. D.: "Remarks on errors in the Anatomical Diag- 

 nosis of Cancer." 



In all ninety-six papers of which three were read before the Biological De- 

 partment. 



The following addition to the By-Laws was adopted on the 31st of January. 



CHAPTER XIV. 



^ PUBLICATION FUND. 



Article I. — Tlie Academy hereby establishes a permanent fund to be called 

 the "Publication Fund," the principal of which shall always be kept in- 

 vested in good securities, and the interest accruing thereupon shall be ap- 

 plied to the payment of the expenses of publishing such matters, stated or oc- 

 casional, as the Academy may think proper to issue. 



Article II. — All monies which may be paid or contributed to the " Publi- 

 cation Fund, " shall be held by the Academy in trust for the purposes set 

 forth in the iirst article of this chapter. 



Article III. — The said monies shall from time to time be invested in the 

 corporate name of the Academy, in the public loans of the State of Pennsylva- 

 nia or tliose of the city of Philadelphia, or in such sound real estate securities 

 as the Academy may direct. 



Article IV. — No investment shall be changed without the consent of the 

 Academy, and all monies received in consequence of any such change shall 

 be invested for the same trirsts as the original fund. 



Article V. — The Treasurer shall open a separate account in the proper 

 books of the Academy, under the head of the " Publication Fund," in which 

 shall be entered all payments and contributions for the purposes of said Fund, 

 and all other matters and tilings relating to said account. 



Article VI. — Any person who shall pay to the Treasurer of the Academy 

 the sum of twenty-five dollars in aid of this fund, shall be entitled to receive 

 a copy of the Proceedings during life, and any person who shall in like man- 

 ner pay the sum of fifty dollars shall be entitled to receive a copy of the 

 Journal during life. 



Article VII. — To every person whose contribution to the Publica ion Fund 

 shall entitle him to receive a copy of the Proceedings or Journal or both, a 

 certificate shall be issued, in such form as the Academy shall prescribe, con- 

 taining a cojiy of this chapter and a statement of the amount of his contri- 

 bution. 



The following amendment to the By-laws was adopted on the 28th of Feb- 

 ruary : 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 575 



The Department B shall be denominated the Geographical Department of ' 

 the Academy. 



No report of the organization of this department has been communicated to 

 the Academy. 



All of which is respectfully submitted. 



B. HOWARD RAND, M. D., 



Recording Secretary. 



REPORT OF THE LIBRARIAN FOR 1860. 



Tiie Library of the Academy has, during the past year, been increased by 

 351 volumes and 629 periodicals and pamphlets, on subjects belonging to the 

 Natural Sciences. Of these works, 111 are from authors, 160 from editors, 

 321 from. Societies, 45 from Dr. J. H. Janeway, 32 from Dr. S. Weir Mitchell. 

 167 from Dr. Thomas B. Wilson, and 144 from other members and correspon- 

 dents. During the year that has just closed, 269 volirmes have been bound : 

 71 at the expense of Dr. Wilson, and 198 by the Academy. The department 

 of the Library appropriated to periodicals, as was stated in the last report 

 would be the case, is very much straitened for room, and the recommen- 

 dation then made in regard to the construction of additional cases is now re- 

 peated. Unless additional room is obtained, it will be impossible to place the 

 books properly upon the shelves. No books are believed to have been lost or 

 missed from the Library during the last year. 



It is of great importance that all valuable books of Natural Science, in all 

 its departments, should be added to the Library as soon as \hey are published. 

 in order that it may keep pace with the progi-ess of knowledge and maintain 

 that superiority as a Library of reference which it now possesses. The ordi- 

 nary means of the Academy will not permit this, and meet its other necessary 

 expenses. Several gentlemen have united in a subscription of a certain sum 

 per annum for 5 years, to meet this want. These subscriptions are not bind- 

 ing unless 25 subscribers are obtained. Four are yet wanting to complete 

 the number, and it is hoped that these will soon be found, so that the Library 

 may be placed in such a condition as will secure its most eminent usefulness 

 in the cause of Science. 



Respectfully submitted, 



JAMES C. FISHER, M.D., 



Librarian. 



REPORT OF THE CURATORS FOR 1860. 



All departments of the Museum of the Academy \inder the general charge 

 of the Curators, continue in their usual good state of preservation, exhibit 

 .,'ri^at forwardness in .their arrangement, and have been constantly increasing 

 througli donations. 



Since the last Report was presented to the Academy, the following ad- 

 ditions have been made to the collections : 



Mammals. — Of these, 32 specimens of 23 species have been received. Among 

 them may be especially mentioned a fine specimen of the Moose, presented by 

 H. T. Desilver, Esq. The others were presented by the Smithsonian Institu- 

 tion, John KriJer, Dr. J. H. Slack. Dr. Jos. Wilson, Capt. J. M. Dow, Major 

 Le Conte, C. J. Hering, D. Samuel, and Dr. Corse.* 



Birds. — During the present year the extensive collection of birds, for %vhich 

 the Museum of the Academy has been especially distinguished, numbering 

 about 26,000 mounted specimens, but which had merely been deposited with 



*The names of the donors are given in the order of value of their contribations. 



ISGO.J 




5T6 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



the Academy hy Dr. Thomas B. Wilson, was now presented by this gentleman 

 to the Institution.* In addition to these, Dr. Wilson presented 2000 skins, or 

 unmounted specimens, and more recently 27 birds from Jalapa, Mexico. 



54specimens, 34speciesof birds collected by Mr. DuChaillu,in Western Africa, 

 were purchased and presented by Dr. T. B. Wilson, Jos. Jeanes, Sam. Jeanes! 

 Ed. Harris, I. Lea, W. S. Vaux, Dr. J. D. Logan, J. C. Trautwine, Dr. W. M. 

 Uhler, E. Durand, C. E. Smith, Aubrey H. Smith, W. P. Foulke, Fairman 

 Rogers, Dr. J. L. Le Conte, and Jos. Leidy. 



17 specimens of birds from Hudson Bay were presented by the Smithsonian 

 Institution ; specimens were presented by Dr. Jos. Wilson" and Lieut. Thos. 

 T. Field; an interesting collection from St. Thomas, W. I., was presented by 

 Robt. Swift, and a collection from New Grenada, S. A., by Wm. P. Breed. In 

 addition, Dr. J. K. Kane presented a oollection of eggs, obtained by his brother 

 in the Arctic region. 



Reptiles. — Of these, the Smithsonian Institution presented 80 specimens of 

 48 species, all North American, and mostly Western ; Dr. T. B. Wilson pre- 

 sented 100 specimens of 16 species from Jalapa, Mexico ; and others were 

 received from Dr. J. H. Slack, Dr. Jos. Wilson. Major Le Conte, Capt. John 

 M. Dow, E. T. Cresson, W. J. Taylor, John Krider, Van Amburg & Co., Sam. 

 Darrach, Dr. Semple, and Messrs. Cope and Powel. 



Fishes. — Of these, Dr. J. H. Slack presented a collection from Minnesota, 

 consisting of 100 specimens of 8 species ; Mr. C. C. Abbott presented 16 speci- 

 mens of 11 species ; Mr. S. Ashmead 7 species ; and others were presented bv 

 Isaac Tyson, Major, Le Conte, T. W. Norris, S. Powel, VV. Coleman. Dr. T. G. 

 Dunn, Dr. J. C. Morris, W. E. Halloway, L. Purves, Dr. R. P. Harris, E. P. 

 Mason, and N. and E. Smith. 



Mollushs. — The Smithsonian Institution preseuted 350 species marine and 

 fluviatile shells, from Wilkes' Exploring Expedition; Mr. S. S. Haldeman pre- 

 sented 42 fluviatile shells, being ty^jes of descriptions and figures ; Mr. J. S. 

 Phillips presented 51 fluviatile gasteropods, not previously in the collection of 

 the Academy ; F. A. Sauvalle presented 93 species of Cuban terrestrial gas- 

 teropods ; Temple Prime 47 cyclididsB ; Mr. Binney 42 species of shells ; and 

 others were presented by the Smithsonian Institution, Edward M. Kern, A. A. 

 Gould, Isaac Lea, R. Swift, Capt. M. Blanchard, Dr. Jos. Wilson, Dr. N. Rol- 

 ler, and Lieut. T. Y. Field. 



JL?7ic«/aies.— Messrs. C. C. Abbott, H. C. Wood, G. H. Horn, and E. D. 

 Cope presented 380 specimens of about 50 species of spiders, collected in 

 Pennsylvania and New Jersey ; J. M. Glasco presented 150 coleoptera, from 

 Texas ; and other insects, spiders, myriapods and Crustacea were presented by 

 Isaac Tyson, Augustus Milson, Capt. John M. Dow, Dr. Semple, Dr. Bridges. 

 Mr. Powel, and Mr. Ashmead. 



Radiates. — 5 Echinoderms were presented by Dr. Jos. Wilson ; 1 by Capt. 

 Dow ; and specimens of Hyalonema were presented by Dr. Ruschenberger and 

 Dr. Sinclair. 



Anatomy. — The skull of a walrus was presented by Dr. J. K. Kane ; the 

 skull of a Camanche Indian by A. E. Carothers ; and miscellaneous ?pecimen.- 

 were presented by Dr. J. B. S. Jackson, Samuel Darrach, and C. C. Abbott. 

 The widow of the late Peter A. Browne presented to the Academy his collec- 

 tion of the hairs of the various species of men and inferior animals. 



Organic Remains. — A large collection of coal plants of Pennsylvania, con- 

 sisting of upwards of 700 specimens, were purchased from Eli Bowen and pre- 

 sented by Joseph Jeanes, Isaac Lea, W. S. Vaux,W.R.Lejee, E. S.Whelen, Dr. Le 

 Conte, Dr. T.B. Wilson, W.Mactier, B. Marsh, J. C. Trautwine, W. C. Henszey. 



* See page 86 of this volume of the Proceedings. 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 577 



Foulke, Jos. P. Smith, Ch. E. Smith, Saunders Lewis, Griffith, and Cooke. 

 Mr. W. S. Vaux presented 20 specimens of 15 species of coal plants, and others 

 were presented by Dr. W. C. Dixon, H. C. Wood, W. M. Gabb, M. Baird, T. 

 Ward, and J. T. Piggott. 



Dr. J. H. Slack presented a valuable collection of remains of Mosasaurus, My- 

 liobates and Charcarodon, from the New Jersey green sand ; Messrs. Abbott and 

 H. C. Wood presented remains of Crocodilus, Priscodelphinus, and Turtles, 

 from New Jersey ; and Mr. Abbott also presented remains of several extinct 

 fishes. Mr. Lea presented several bones of the extinct Hippopotamus of Italy ; 

 Prof. Rogers a saurian vertebra from the North Carolina coal field ; and A. C. 

 Orrick a Mastodon tooth from Missouri. 



Small collections of invertebrate fossils were presented by W. M. Gabb, E. 

 L. Perkins, C. C. Abbott, F. Kellog, Dr. C. M. Wetherill, Dr. Moore, E. D. 

 Cope, H. C. Wood, C. C. Cadwalader, W J. Taylor, P. T. Tyson, T. A. Conrad, 

 and A. L. Gerhart. 



Minerals. — Specimens of coals and mineral oils, from Western Pennsylvania, 

 were presented byG. T. Lewis ; and Dr. W. iM. Garsia presented 20 specimens 

 of mineral from Chili. Other specimens were presented by Capt. Nicholson, 

 W. S. Vaux, T. F. Moss, E. L. Perkins, W. L. Mactier, J. H. Janeway, J. H. 

 Thompson, Potts & Klett, P. C. Horn, Dunlap, Rand, Hartman, Lea, Marsh, 

 McKibben, Short, Hanson, Wood, Hoeckley, and Pierce. 



Botany. — H. W. Ravenel presented the 5th fasciculus of his Fungi Caro- 

 liniani, and Cryptogamic specimens were presented by H. C. Wood, Dr. Huf- 

 .nagle, D. R. Bennett, Rand, and Kaull. 



Submitted by JOSEPH LEIDY, 



Chairman of the Curators, 



The Committee on the Jessup Fund presented the following rules, 

 which were adopted : — 



I. Applications for benefits from the Jessup Fund shall be made 

 in writing to the Committee every three months. 



II. Benefits from the Fund shall not be received by the same person 

 for a longer period than two years, without the unanimous consent of 

 the Committee. 



III. The beneficiaries shall devote one-half of their time, under 

 the direction of the Committee, to the study and arrangement of the 

 Museum of the Academy. 



IV. Each beneficiary shall receive 820 monthly by an order from 

 the Committee on the Treasurer. 



The following amendment to the By-Laws was finally adopted : — 

 To Article VII. Chapter 10, add the words, " of more than twenty of 

 those extra copies." 



I860.] 




578 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



xhe election of Officers for the ensuing year was held in accordance 

 with the By-Laws, with the following result : — 



President^ 

 Vice-Presidents, 



Correspond iiig Secretary, 



Recording Secretary, 



Librarian^ 



Treasurer, . 



Curators, 



Auditors, 



Puhlicaiion Committee, 



Isaac Lea, LL. I). 

 Robert Bridges. M.D.. 

 Wm. S. Vaux. 

 Thomas Stewardson.M.D. 

 B. Howard Rand, M. D. 

 James C. Fisher, M. D. 

 Wm. C. Henszey. 

 Joseph Leidy, M. D., 

 Wm. S. Vaux. 

 John Gassin, 

 J. Dickinson Sergeant. 

 Wm. S. Vaux, 

 Joseph Jeanes. 

 Aubrey H. Smith. 

 Wm. S. Vaux, 

 Isaac Lea, 

 Robert Bridges. 

 Joseph Leidy. 

 Thomas Stewardson. 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 579 



ELECTIONS IN 1860. 



The following persons were elected Members, viz : — 



Jan. 31. Wm. M. Gabb, Wm. L. Mactier. 



Feb. 28. Franklin A. Comly, William W. Longstreth, Samuel M. 

 Felton. 



March 27. E. Otis Kendall, Alexander Johnston, Thomas Meehan, 

 Charles A. Kingsbury, M. D. 



April 24. Solomon W. Roberts, Edward Burd Grubb. 



May 29. Andrew Coates, Francis Moore, M. D., John G. Bell, 

 Edward R. Mordecai, M. D., Henry M. Watts, D. G. Elliott. 



June 26. J. T. Plate, Philip A. Cregar, Joseph W. Drexel. 



July 31. George S. Pepper, Wm. P. Wilstach, James C. Hand. 

 Edward Craig Mitchell, Chris. J. Cleborne. 



Sept. 25. Richard Wood. 



Oct. 30. William S. Torr, John Ashhurst, M. D., George W. 

 Carpenter, Jr. 



Nov. 27. Edgar L. Thompson, Rowland E. Evans, Robert Boiling, 

 M. D., William Potts, Wm. B. Sinclair, M. D., U. S. N., David Reece, 

 Hugh D. Vail. 



Dec. 25. A. J. Foard, M. D., U. S. A., John Warner, Felix B. 

 Carbonell, Edward Parrish. 



The following persons were elected Correspondents, viz : — 



Feb. 28. Prof. Charles Smallwood, M. D., Montreal. 



March 27. Hermann Walthu, M. D., Dresden ; Wm. B. Carpenter, 

 M. D., F. R. S., London; Charles Darwin, F. R. S., London. 



Nov. 27. Theodore Gill, Washington ; Chev. A. C. Bernardi, Paris. 



Dec. Prof. Jules Marcou. 



I860.] 





CORRESPONDENCE. 



CORRESPONDENCE OF THE ACADEMY, 1860. 



Letters were received and read as follows, viz. : 



Jan. 3rf. From P. B. Ducliaillu, New York, Dec. 29th, 1859, in reference to 

 claim for outfit. 



From Committee of the Hnmboldt Foundation, in connection with the Royal 

 Prussian Academy of Sciences, Berlin, June 28th and Nov. 3d, 1859, proposing- 

 to establish a fund in honor of Humboldt, for the furtherance of scientific 

 pursuits. 



From Prof. Encke, of Royal Prussian Academy, Nov. 17th, 1859, on the 

 same subject. 



IQih. From Wm. J. Hamilton, Esq., London, Dec. 14th, 1859, acknowledg- 

 ing his election as correspondent. 



From Dr. John Evans, Washington, Nov. 25th, 1859, in reference to a large 

 meteorite near Port Orford, Washington Tei-ritory, and desiring aid in pro- 

 curing the same. 



From John Welsh, Esq., Philadelphia, Jan. 3d, 1860, acknowledging his 

 election to membership. 



Vlth. From W. E. Moore, East Brooklyn, Jan. 13th, 1860, asking orders for 

 specimens of Natural History, to be collected by him in South America. 



2A.th. Chas. J. Elliott, Montgomery Co., Pa., Jan. 17th, 1860, requesting a 

 copy of the Constitution, &c., for the " Cabinet of Natural Science of Mont- 

 gomery Co." 



Feb. 1th. From the Phvsico-Medical Society of Wiirtzbnrg. Sept. 26th. 

 1859; 



Royal Danish Society of Sciences, Copenhagen, July 1st, 1859 ; 



Royal Bavarian Academy of Sciences, Munich, Oct. 28th, 1859 ; 



Imperial Society of Naturalists of Moscow, June 22d, 1859 ; 



Royal Society of Sciences, Gottingen, Sept. 13th, 1859 ; 



Royal University Library, Gottingen, Oct. 21st, 1859 ; 



Royal Society of Sciences, Upsal, Sept. 15th, 1859 ; 



H. G. Bronn, Heidelburg, July 16th, 1859 ; severally acknowledging the 

 receipt of the publications of the Academy. 



From the Royal Danish Society of Copenhagen, July 1st, 1859 ; 



Royal Bavarian Academy of Sciences, Munich, Oct. 1st, 1859 ; * 



Imperial Society of Naturalists, Moscow, June 13th, 1859 ; 



Zoological Society, London, Jan. 20th, 1860 ; severally accompanying dona- 

 tions to the Library. 



From the Naturforschende Gesellschaft, Freiburg, Oct. 20th, 1859, accom- 

 panying donation to the Library, aud acknowledging the receipt of the Pro- 

 ceedings of the Academy. , 



From H. Davis, McGregor, Iowa, Jan. 21st, 1860, oflFering collections in ^- 

 change, &c. 



G. C. Swallow, Columbia, Mo.. Jan. 20th, 1860, acknowledging his election 

 as correspondent. 



Dr. Evans, Washington, Peb. 4th, 1860, in reference to a memorial to Con- 

 gress on the subject of the meteorite in Washington Territory. 



21st. T. Oldham, Esq., of the Geological Museum, Calcutta, June 28th, 

 1859, transmitting survey of India. 



British Museum, Dec. 20th, 1859, acknowledging the receipt of the publica- 

 tions of the Academy. 



March 6th. From C. W. Holman, New York, Feb. 28th, 1860, asking a copy 

 of the annual reports for the Library at Westeriis, Sweden. 



40 




2 CORRESPONDENCE. 



March 13th. From C. Smallwood, M, D., Canada East, Marcli 6tli, 1860, 

 acknowledging his election as correspondent. 



Lucien Buquet, Feb. ISth, 1860, transmitting publications of the Entomo- 

 logical Society of France. 



T. Dunlap, Esq., Pliiladelpbia, March 13th, 1860, accompanying donation 

 to Library. 



S. M. Felton, Philadelphia, March 5th, 1860, acknowledging his election to 

 membership. 



Mrs. Lucy W. Say, Newburg, N. Y., March 2d, 1860, in reference to the 

 appropriation of the proceeds of the sale of the American Conchology. 



April 3d. C. J. Bering, Surinam, Feb. 20th, 1860, accompanying donation 

 to Museum. 



R. Charapley, Scarborough, England, March 6th, 1860, asking drawing of 

 Alca impeunis, &c. 



Charles Miiller, Berlin, Feb. 28th, 1860, in reference to exchanges. 



Smithsonian Institution, Jan. 6th, 10th, and 12th : 



Academy of Sciences, St. Louis, Mo., severally acknowledging the receipt 

 of the publications of the Academy. 



Chas. F. Loosey, N. Y., Nov. 15th, 1859, transmitting the report of the first 

 meeting of the Miners and Smelters, Vienna. 



Eoyal University of Christiania, Norway, Nov. 15th, 1859, transmitting 

 Scripta Academica. 



10th. Geological Society of London, Dec. 15th, 1859 ; 



Royal Bohemian Society of Sciences, Prague, Nov. 20th, 1859 ; 



Society of Friends of Natural Knowledge, Mecklenburg, Oct. 29th, 1859 ; 

 severally acknowledging the receipt of the publications of the Academy. . 



Natural History Society of Wurttemburg, Jan. 10th, 1860, transmitting do- 

 nations to Library, and acknowledging the receipt of the publications of the 

 Academy. 



Natural History Society of Riga, Oct. 26th, 1859 ; 



Royal Jablonowski Society at Leipsig, Nov. 20th, 1859 ; 



Royal Bohemian Society of Sciences, Prague, Nov. 28th, 1859 ; 



Society of Naturalists at Altenburg, Nov. 15th, 1859 ; severally transmit- 

 ting donations to the Library of the Academy. 



17*^. Geological Society of Dublin, March 27th, 1860 ; 



G. W. Fahnestock, Philadelphia, April 11th, 1860 ; severally transmitting 

 delations to the Library. 



New York State Library, Albany, April 10th, 1860, acknowledging the re- 

 <?eipt of the Proceedings of the Academy. 



May 1st. Thos. H. Huxley, London, April 16th. 1860, acknowledging his 

 election as correspondent. 



l^th. H. De Saussure, Geneva, Switzerland, April 20th, 1860, acknowledg- 

 ing his election as correspondent. 



H. T. Desilver, Philadelphia, May 15th, 1860, accompanying donation to 

 Museum. 



22d. Natural History Society of the Grand Duchy of Nassau, 1859 ; 



Royal Academy of Sciences, Amsterdam, Nov. ^Oth, 1859 ; 



Imperial Academy of Sciences, Vienna, Dec. 17th and July 7th, 1859 ; 



Royal Academy of Sciences, Stockholm, Nov. 24th, 1S59 ; severally ac- 

 companying donations to the Library. 



Socifcte de Physique et d"Histoire Naturelle, Geneva, Nov. 5th, 1859, ac- 

 companying donations to the Library, and acknowledging the receipt of the 

 publications of the Academy, 



Natural History Society of the Grand Duchy of Nassau, Weisbaden, 1859 



Royal Academy of Sciences, Amsterdam, Oct. 25th, 1359 ; 



Smithsonian Institution, April 13th, 1860 ; 




CORRESPONDENCE. 3 



Imperial Academy of Sciences, Vienna, Feb. 4th and Oct. 11th, 1859 ; 



Linnjean Society of London, Jan. 1st, 1860 ; 



Natural History Society of Westphalia, Feb. 1st, 1860 ; severally acknow- 

 ledging the receipt of the publications of the Academy. 



Robert Champley, Scarborough, England, May 6th, 1860, acknowledging the 

 receipt of photograph of Alca impennis, &c. 



June 5th. Lyman C. Draper, Secretary of the Historical Society of Wiscon- 

 sin, in reference to exchanges. 



12tk. Smithsonian Institution, June 6th, 1860, accompanying donation to 

 the Library. 



George Crowther. New York, May 17th. 1860, in reference to a supposed 

 new butterfly. 



Idth. United States Legation, Paris, April 30th, 1860, transmitting two 

 livraisons of the Annales des Mines. 



26ih. E. R. Mordecai, Mobile, June 18tli, 1860, acknowledging his election 

 to membership. 



July 3d. A. P. Turner, New Harmony, Indiana, June 25th, 1860, offering 

 shells from Wabash river, &c. 



Royal Society of Edinburgh, March 9th, 1860 ; 



Imperial Society of Natural Sciences, Cherbourg, Jan. 20th, 1860 ; 



Smithsonian Institution, March 21st and June 15th, 1860 ; 



Geological Society of London, May 17th, 1860 ; severally acknowledging the 

 receipt of the publications of the Academy. 



H. W. Ravenel, Aiken, S. C, June 22d, 1860 ; 



War Department, Washington, June 18th, 1860; severally accompanying 

 donations to the Library. 



Dr. Hoernes, Vienna, April 23d, 1860 ; 



Prof. Edward Suess, Vienna, April 23d, 1860; 



Chas. Darwin, Kent, England, May 8th, 1860 ; 



Geo. R. Von Frauenfeld, Vienna, June 5th, 1860 ; 



M. Flourens, Paris, May 14th, 1860 ; severally acknowledging their election 

 as correspondents. 



llth. Royal Prussian Academy of Science, Berlin, Dec. 31st, 1859 ; 



Senckenberg Natural History Society, Frankfort, Feb. 1st, 1860 ; 



Catholic University of Louvain, Nov. 18tli, 1859 ; 



Natural History Society of Freiburg, May 10th, 1860 ; 



Royal Gardener's Society, Berlin, April 5th, 1860 ; severally accompanying 

 donations to the Library, and acknowledging the receipt of the publications of 

 the Academy. 



Physico-Medical Society of Wiirtzburg, April 2d, 1860 ; 



Imperial Academy of Sciences, Vienna, March, 1860 ; 



Imperial Leopold Charles Dutch Academy of Natural History, Jena, Feb. 

 27th, 1860 ; severally accompanying donations to the Library. 



Imperial Leopold Charles Dutch Academy of Natural History, Jena, Feb. 

 18th, 1860, acknowledging the receipt of the publications of the Academy. 



24^A. D. G. Elliott, New York, July 23d, 1860, acknowledging his election 

 to membership, 



Charles M. Wetherill, La Fayette, Indiana, June 15th, 1860, accompanying 

 a donation to the Museum. 



Royal Academy of Sciences, Letters and fine Arts, Belgium, Sept. 23d, 

 1858; 



Physico-Medical Society of Wiirtzburg, April 2d, 1860 ; severally acknow- 

 ledging the receipt of the publications of the Academy. 



Sept. ISth. J. Barrande, Paris, Aug. 20th, 1860, acknowledging his election 




4 CORRESPONDENCE. 



as correspondent and announcing the presentation of several of Ms publi- 

 cations to the Academy. 



Society of Naturalists of New Granada, Bogota, June 14th, 1860, accompany- 

 ing donation to the Library, and acknowledging the receipt of the publications 

 of the Academy. 



Royal Society of London, May 24th, 1860, acknowledging the receipt of the 

 publications of the Academy. 



Oct. 2d. Naturforscher Verein in Dorpat, Jan., 1860, accompanying dona- 

 tion to the Library of the Academy. 



Smithsonian Institution, Slarch 31st, 1859, acknowledging the receipt of the 

 publications of the Academy. 



Charles des Moulins, Bordeaux, July 19th, 1860, acknowledging his election 

 as correspondent. 



IQth. S. S. Haldeman, Columbia, Pa., Sept. 6th, 1860 ; 



F. A. Sauvalle, Havana, April 2d, and Philadelphia, June 14th, 1860 ; 

 severally accompanying donations to the Museum. 



Society of Arts and Sciences, Utrecht. Feb., 1860, acknowledging the receipt 

 of the Proceedings of the Academy. 



23rf. Royal Academy of Sciences, Letters and fine Arts, Belgium, March 

 20th, 1860 ; 



Royal Geographical Society of London, July 13th, 1860 ; 



Royal Imperial Geological Institute, Vienna, Aug. 27th, 1859, and March 

 26th, 1860 ; 



W. Haidinger, Vienna, March 28th, 1860 ; 



Literary and Philosophical Society, Manchester, May 30th, 1860 ; 



Leeds Philosophical and Literary Society, July 24th, 1860 ; 



Royal Academy of Sciences, Letters and fine Arts, Belgium, Sept. 16th, 

 1360 ; severally acknowledging the receipt of the publications of the Academy. 



Oct. 23rf. Physico-Medical Society of Upper Hesse, June 20th, 1860 ; 



Royal Imperial Zoologico-Botanical Society, Vienna ; 



Imperial Academy of Sciences, Vienna, June 25th, 1860 ; 



Russian Imperial Mineralogical Society, St. Petersburg, April 23d, 1860 ; 

 severally accompanying donations to the Library. 



Society of Natural Sciences in Emden, May 21st, 1860 ; 



Royal Society of Gottingen, June 3d, 1860 ; severally accompanying dona- 

 tions to the Library, and acknowledging the receipt of the publications of the 

 Academy. 



Nov. 13<A. Royal Saxon Society of Sciences, Leipsig, July 5th, 1860 ; 



Royal Society of Sciences, Upsal, Aug. 4th, 1860 ; 



Imperial Academy of Sciences, BeUes Lettres and Arts, Lyons, July 11th, 

 1860 : 



Imperial Society of Naturalists, Moscow, June 13th, 1860; severally accom- 

 panying donations to the Library. 



Royal Physical Society, Edinburgh, April 2d, 1860, accompanying donation 

 to the Library, and acknowledging the receipt of the Proceedings of the 

 Academy. 



British Museum, Oct. 26th, 1860, acknowledging the receipt of the Pro- 

 ceedings. 



20th. Richard Owen, New Harmony, Indiana, Nov. 14th, 1860, announcing 

 the death of Dr. David Dale Owen, late a correspondent of the Academy. 



London Atheneum, Oct. 30th, 1860, acknowledging the receipt of the Pro- 

 ceedings. 



Dec. 4th. Royal Academy of Sciences, Lisbon, May 26th, 1860, accompany- 

 ing donations to the Library. 



11th. Dr. John Gistel, Ratisbon, April 20th, 1860, of the same tenor. 

 - l^th. T. J. Hale, Albany, New York, Dec. 17th, 1860, in reference to ex- 

 changes of plants. 




DONATIONS TO MUSEUM. 



Donations to Museum. — 1860. 



January 3c?. A collection of minerals and Silurian fossils, from New York. 

 Presented by Edward L. Perkins. 



lOi/j. A collection of fishes, Crustacea, &c., from Newport, R. I. Presented 

 by Messrs. Powel, Bridges and Leidy. 



A white rabbit. Presented by Mr. John Krider. 



A small collection of fossils. Presented by Wm. M. Gabb. 



A large fungus. Presented by Wm. Kaull. 



Vith. A collection of fislies, from Newport, R. I. Presented by Messrs. 

 Powel and Bridges. 



Several coal plants. Presented by Wm. M. Gabb. 



Human skull, from Marquesas Island. Deposited by Dr. Turner and J. A. 

 Meigs. 



Collection of Reptiles. Presented by Dr. Wilson, U. S. N. 



'2Ath. Several cretaceous fossils, from New Jersey. Presented by C. C. Ab- 

 bott. 



Collection of remains of Mosasaurus, from Monmouth Co., N. J. Collec- 

 tion of shells from do. Presented by .J. H. Slack. 



A Remora, from Newport, R. I. Presented by W. E. HoUoway. 



February *Jth. Fungus plant, from a deep coal mine, Pottsxalle, Pa. Pre- 

 sented by D. R. Bennett. 



A bean, from Japan. Presented by I. Lea, LL. D. 



Twelve species of shells. Presented by W. G. Binney. 



Forty- seven species of Cyclididse. Presented by Temple Prime. 



An agate geode, from the Urugiiay R., S. A. Presented by J. H. Thomsoii. 



Two fishes, from the coast of New Jersey. Presented by L. Purves. 



Remains of Mosasaurus, fishes, &c. From Monmouth Co., N. J. Presented 

 by C. C. Abbott. 



Specimens of fossil fishes, from Delaware Water Gap. Presented by the same. 



Chaetodon from Newport. Presented by E. P. Mason. 



Plectopoma from Newport. Presented by N. and E. Smith. 



14i/t. Small collection of Eocene fossils, from Whenlock, Texas. Presented 

 by F. Kellog. 



Mounted specimen of Ateles ater, from South America. Presented by J. H. 

 Slack. 



Seven skins of Mammals, viz : — 



3 Spermophilus Beechii, 1 Neotoma Mexicana, 1 Lepus artemesia, 1 Lepus, 

 1 Sciurus, from Western North America. From the Smithsonian Institu- 

 tion. 



2\st. Specimen of Hematite, from Lancaster Co., Pa. Presented by Wm. 

 L. Mactier. 



Specimen of Struvite, from St. Pauls, Hamburg. Presented by John II. 

 Janeway. 



Specimen of Agalmatolite, from Moore Co., N. C. Presented by B. G. 

 Dunlap. 



Collection of seven hundred coal plants, purchased from Mr. E. Bowen by 

 members of the Academy. 



Two teeth of Mosasaurus, from Monmouth Co., N. J. Presented by J. H. 

 Slack. 



A specimen of Favosites, a Devonian fossil from the gravel in the neigh- 

 borhood of Philadelphia. Presented by Dr. Leidy. 




n. DONATIONS TO MUSEUM. 



Tooth of Carcliarodon acutidens, from J. H. Slack. 



A specimen of Meteoric Iron, from Xiquii>ilco near Toluco, Mexico. Pre- 

 sented by Wm. S. Vaux. 



March 6th. Collection of coal plants 20 specimens, 15 species, from Carbon- 

 dale, Pa. Presented by Wm. S. Vaux. 



Two specimens of Crinoid stems, from White Creek Spring, Davidson Co., 

 Tenn. Presented by Wm. S. Vaux. 



Crocodile vertebra, and two phalanges of a saurian, cretaceous, from Mon- 

 mouth Co., New Jersey. Presented by C. C. Abbott. 



Skin of ocelot, Felis pardalis, from Central America. Presented by Dr. 

 "Wilson, U. S. Navy. 



Miocene leaves, from Bridgeton, New Jersey. Presented by C. C. Abbott. 



Hyalonema mirabilis, from Hakodadi, Japan. Presented by Dr. Ruschen- 

 berger. 



13th. Collection of Birds from Hudson's Bay, viz : — 



Nyctea nivea, Bubo virginianus, Somatera molissima, Astur atricapillus, 

 Surnia ulula, 2 Dafila acuta. Anas boschas, Mergus serrator, 2 Nettion Caroli- 

 iiensis, Bucephala albiola, Forlea affinis, Pelionetta perspicillata, Spatula cly- 

 peata, Podiceps cornuta, Bucephala Americana, Ceryle alcyon, Chroicoce- 

 phalus Philadelphia. Presented by the Smithsonian Institution. 



Lorius coccineus, from the Feejee Islands ; tail feathers of Phsethon rubri- 

 cauda ; 5 specimens of Echinoderms and Star-fish, from Guaymas, Gulf of 

 California ; 2 specimens of shells from Panama. Presented by Joseph Wilson, 

 Jr., M. D., U. S. Navy. 



Model of a Catamaran. Deposited by J. H. Slack. 



Specimens of Helocsetes ferianum, from Gloucester, N. J. Presented by Theo. 

 Scattergood. 



Unio obesus, from specimens of different ages, from Brunswick, Geo. Pre- 

 sented by Isaac Lea, LL. D. 



20th. Four bones of the Hippopotamus major, from Florence, Italy. Pre- 

 sented by Isaac Lea, LL. D. 



Specimens of Galena, 2 of Iron pyrites and 1 of limestone, from Hakodadi, 

 Japan. Presented by Capt. Nicholson. 



Specimen of crystallized phosphate of lime in guano, from Avis Island, Ca- 

 ribbean Sea. Presented by Potts & Klett. 



Unio Wilsoni, Lea, from N. South Wales. Presented by Dr. T. B. Wilson. 



A collection of mounted birds, numbering about 26,000 specimens, and a 

 collection of bird skins, chiefly duplicates, now in the Hall of the Academy, 

 about 2000 specimens, being his entire collection heretofore deposited. Pre- 

 sented by Dr. Thomas B. Wilson. 



April 3rf. Specimens in Alcohol of Dryophis fulgida. Boa constrictor, Cse- 

 oilia, Imantodes curchoa, Bufo, Tiliqua, Bats, Insects, Scorpions and Myria- 

 pods, from near Vole. Palco, San Salvador. 



Crabs and ophiocoma, from Panama. Presented by Capt. John M. Dow. 



Euprepis, Euprepis Harlaui, Boodon, Agama, Atractaspis irregularis, Pari- 

 aspis plumbeatra, Dryophis Kirtlandi, Triglyphodon pulverulentus, from Li- 

 beria. Presented by E. T. Cresson. 



Specimens of Chameleon and Mantis, from West Coast, Africa. Presented 

 by Dr. Semple, U. S. Navy. 



10th. Tooth of Mastodon, from Benton Co., Mo. Presented by A. C. Orrick, 

 Esq. 



Skull of the Walrus. Presented by Dr. John K. Kane. 



Sulphate of Barytes, from England. Presented by Wm. S. Vaux, 



Three jars with bats, reptiles and fishes, from S. Carolina. Presented by 

 Major Le Conte. 




DONATIONS TO MUSEUM. 111. 



llth. 18 species of pulmonate shells, from the Smithsonian lustitution ; If) 

 do. from \V. G. Binney ; 1 do. from Mr. Powel ; 2 species of marine shells, from 

 Capt. Miles Blanchard. 



Eaneutes murinus, from Surinam. Presented by Gr. W. Fahnestock. 



Two Owls, from Realijo, Nicaragua; a large Pinna, and ligneous texture of 

 an Aloe. Presented by Lieut. Thomas Y. Field. 



Two Greomys pinetis, Mastela uoveboracensis, from Georgia. Presented by 

 David Samuel. 



White ant of Africa ; and polyps, from the Atlantic Ocean. Presented bv 

 .1. C. Semple, M. D., U. S. Navy. 



Pseudoapatite, from Freiberg, Saxony, Presented by T. F. Moss. 



Bradypus tridactylus. Presented by C. J. Hering. 



A topaz. Presented by I. G. Cassatt and C. W. Frost. 



May 1st. Carbonate of Copper, from Chili. Presented by P. C. Horn. 



Fragments of the jaw of a crocodile, from the Green Sand of Monmouth 

 Co., N. J. Presented by H. C. Wood, Jr. 



Palatine plate of Myliobates, fragments of teeth of Mosasaurus, and a col- 

 lection of shells and belemnites, from Monmouth Co., N. .J. Presented by Dr. 

 J. H. Slack. •* 



8^/i. Specimen of Stilbite, and one of Stilbite and Heulaudite, from Flat 

 Rock Tunnel ; large fungus, found growing on a paper mulberry tree, Phila- 

 delphia. Presented by T. B. Rand. 



'[5th. Specimen of Tringa Temminckii, from Marquesas Island. Presented 

 by Joseph Wilson, M. D., U. S. Navy. 



Eleven specimens of birds' eggs, collected by Dr. Kane in the Arctic region. 

 Presented by Dr. J. K. Kane. 



Fifty-one species of U. S. fluviatile gasteropods, not in the collection of the 

 Academy. Presented by J. S. Phillips. 



A fine specimen of the Moose, Cervus alces, from Moose-head Lake, Maine. 

 Presented by H. T. Desilver. 



Specimens of Lepidoptera, from Manilla. 



Fishes, 6 species 4 genera, from the Atlantic Ocean. Presented by Isaac Tyson. 



Tropidonotus sirtalis, from Darby, Pa., Bascanion constrictor, from do. He- 

 terodon x^latyrhinus, from N. Jersey. Presented by Dr. Leidy. 



22d. Specimen of Cannal coal, from Armstrong Co., Pa.; do. coal oil crude, 

 from Sucesco Works, Pa.; do. do. refined, from Penna. Salt Co., Pa.; do. Pe- 

 troleum crude, from Oil Creek, Pa.; do. do. refined, from Penna. Salt Co., 

 Pa.; do. do. once distilled, from Peterson's Well, Pa.; do. do, crude, from 

 Paint Creek, Johnson Co., Ky. From Geo. T, Lewis, Esq. 



Specimens of Unionidse. Presented by Isaac Lea, LL. D. 



June 5th. Tarantula and 7 scorpions, from Cuba. Presentei by Dr. Au- 

 gustus Milson, through Dr. Atlee. 



Eggs of Ampularia, from Florida. Presented by R. Harris, M. D. 



Specimen of Bryttus Chsetodon, from Trenton, Presented by C. C. Abbott. 



Between 3 and 400 species of 65 genera of marine and terrestrial shells of 

 Wilkes Exploring Expedition. Presented by the Smithsonian Institution. 



One hundred and thirty species of Palaeozoic fossils, from Iowa. Received 

 in exchange from J. N. H. Barris. 



Two salamanders, and a small collection of Myriapods ; a crab, from New- 

 port. From Mr. Powel, 



19th. Twelve specimens of ores of zinc, from Bethlehem, Pa., from Mr. 

 Roepper in exchange. 




IV. DONATIONS TO MUSEUM. 



Brucite, Anthophyllite, Tremolite, &c., from Lancaster and Chester Co., Pa. 

 Presented by W. D. Hartman and Isaac Lea. 



Dermognathus fusca and Carphophiops amorna, from New Jersey. Present- 

 ed by C. C. Abbott. 



Vertebra of a Saurian, from Chatham Co., N. C. Presented by Robert E. 

 PLOgers. 



July Zd. A specimen of Sigillaria, from Hazelton. Presented by Matthew 

 Baird, Esq. 



Two specimens of Coal Plants, from Pottsville, Penna. Presented by T. 

 Ward. 



Two specimens of Selenite, from Chili. Presented by Dr. W. M. Garsia. 



Forty-eight specimens of Land Shells, from Sandwich Isles. Presented by 

 E. M. kern. 



Cast of the Skull of a Flathead Indian, about 22 years of age, who died re- 

 cently in Boston, also some of the hair of the same. Presented by Dr. J. B. 

 S. Jackson. 



Specimen of an Anaconda. Deposited by Dr. J. H. Slack. 



Fungi Caroliniani. Fasc. 5, Presented by H. W. Ravenel. 



l^th. Costal plate of a fossil turtle. Presented by "W. W. Fraley. 

 A collection of 19 specimens of ores of copper, from Chili. Presented by 

 Dr. W. M. Garsia. 



2Ath. Eed oxide of copper, specimens of Chlorastrolite, a fossil shell, and 

 specimens of mud and sand, from Lake Superior. Presented by Theo. F. Moss. 

 A collection of fossils. Presented by Dr. C. M. Wetherill. 

 Hyla xanthocnemia, from New Jersey. Presented by Dr. Leidy. 

 Silver ore, from Nevada Ter. Presented by J. McKibben. 



Septenibfr 4th. A fine specimen of the Meteorite which fell May 1st, 1860, in 

 Guernsey Co., Ohio. Presented by Benj. V. Marsh. 



Specimen of bituminous coal from Green River City, Muhlenburg Co., Ky., 

 on banks of Green River, 39 feet above high water. The equivalent of No. 11 

 of Owen's Reports of Geological Survey of Ky., 4', feet thick. Presented by J. 

 Short, Esq. 



Specimen of bituminous coal, 4 feet vein, supposed to be equivalent of No. 9 

 ■ if 3d vol. Owen's Report of the Geological Survey of Ky., from Green River City, 

 Muhlenburg Co., Ky., 30 feet below No. 11, and 5 feet above high water. 

 Presented by J. Short, Esq. 



Specimens of peat in common use for fuel on railroads in Bavaria. Pre- 

 sented by Richard Wood. 



Specimens of Flaps fulvus, Sceloporus undulatus, Anolis caroliniensis, 

 Lygosoraa laterale, Desmognathus amiculata ; Insects from Mobile, Ala. Pre- 

 sented by Prof. W. J. Taylor. 



Specimens of Ophidia, viz. 4 Pliocercus elapoides, 8 Catastoma semidolia- 

 tum, 30 Ninia diademata, 10 Lampropeltis polyzona, 7 Thamnophis proximus, 

 1 Thamnophis scalaris, 1 Sibon annulata. Sauria — Anolis, Sidrolampms 

 emreagramraa, 6 Sceloporus variabilis, 3 Sceloporus scalaris. Batrachia — 

 Bufo, 22 Rana, 2 Spelerpes bellii, 2 Geotriton carbonarius, from Jalapa, 

 Mexico, (collected by R. M. De Oca). Presented by Dr. T. B. Wilson. 



llth. Specimen of Porites furcata, from Santa Cruz, W. I. Presented by 

 E. D, Cope. 



Specimen of Favosites basaltiformis, from Warren Co., Pa. Presented by 

 E. D. Cope. 




DONATIONS TO MUSEUM. V. 



56 specimens of Spiders, 23 species from Pennsylvauia and Maryland. Pre- 

 sented by G. H. Horn. 



18//i. A large and interesting collection of birds, from the Island of St. 

 Thomas, West Indies. Presented by Mr. Robert Swift. 



A collection of birds from New Grenada, South America. Presented by Wm. 

 P. Breed. 



Cistudo , from Londongrove, Chester Co., Pennsylvania. Presented 



by E. D. Cope. 



Large and fine specimen of Nickel, from Litchfield, Conn. Presented by 

 Mr. H. C. Hanson. 



Fine specimen of Sigillaria, from the mines of Messrs. Geo. Wiggins & Son, 

 Tamaqua, Penn. Presented by Mr. John T. Piggott. 



October 2d. Specimens of Millerite. Gap Mine, Lancaster Co., Pa. Pre- 

 sented by F. S. Hoeckley. 



Specimens of Chlorastrolites. Isle Royal, Lake Superior. Presented by J. 

 Newton Pierce. 



25 specimens of Araneidse, from Chester Co. Presented by E. D. Cope. 



Sphaeria Robertsii. Presented by Dr. Huflfnagle. 



A fish (Plectropoma,) from Newport, R. I., and a spectrum from Florida. 

 Presented by Dr. R. P. Harris. 



Dromicus fugitivus, Trinidad. Presented by Dr. S. W. Mitchell. 



A collection, of hairs of various animals, made by the late Peter A. Browne, 

 Esq. Presented by Mrs. P. A. Browne. 



9th. 7 specimens 5 species of rodents. Presented by Mr. Krider. 



Thamnophis radix, T. sirtalis, Tropidonotus sipedon, Rana Halecina, fi-om 

 Kansas. Presented by Mr. Krider. 



Eleuteres cuspicauda, Morrhua pruinosa, Angnilla oceanica, Argyreiosus 

 vomer, Saurns fcetens, Hippocampus hudsonius, Ophidium marginatum. 

 From Beesley's Point, New Jersey. Presented by Mr. S. Aslimead. 



A deformed leopard crab, having the left fore claw double. Presented by 

 Mr. S. Ashmead. 



100 specimens, 17 species of Araneidse, from the neighborhood of Phila- 

 delphia. Presented by H. C. Wood, Jr. 



66 specimens, 48 species of reptiles. 9 species of Thamnophis, 1 Basca- 

 nion, 2 Pityophis, 1 Flaps, 1 Siren. From Nebraska, Puget's Sound, Geor- 

 gia, California, &c. Presented by the Smithsonian Institution. 



A small collection of cretaceous and carboniferous fossils, from Texas. Pre- 

 sented by Dr. Moore. 



ISth. Shark (Alopias vulpes.) From Newport. Presented by Dr. T. ('. 

 Dunn through Mr. Powel. 



An Iguana, and palatal teeth of the Drnm-fish. Presented by Samuel Dar- 

 rach through Dr. James Darrach. 



Meriones Hudsonius. Presented by Dr. James M. Corse. 



4 specimens of Achatina and 3 of Helix, from Cuba. Presented by Dr. N. 

 KoUar. 



Pomotis, n. s.; Plagyrus cornutus, Hydrargyra. New Jersey. Presented 

 by W. Coleman, Esq. 



200 specimens of Spiders, from near Trenton, N. J. Presented by C. C. 

 Abbott. 



Catastomus tuberculatus ; C. gibbosus ; Pomotis appendix ; Luxilus argen- 

 teus ; Hygostoma Newmanii ; Pimelodus catus ; Ambloplites pomotis. Dela- 

 ware River. Presented by C. C. Abbott. 



A Unio. Presented by Isaac Lea, LL. D. 



Three Land Shells. Presented by Temple Prime. 



15 species of Marine Shells. Presented by W. G. Biuney. 




VI. DONATIONS TO MUSEUM. 



11 species of Shells, types of descriptions in Wilkes' Exploring Erpedition. 

 Presented by Dr. A. A. Gonld. 



93 species of Cuban Terrestrial Shells. Presented by F. A. Sauvalle. 



9 species of Shells, from the Spanish Main. Presented by R. Swift. 



42 Fluviatile Shells, types of descriptions and figures. Presented by Prof. S. 

 S. Haldeman. 



23d. Four Fossil Vertebrse, fragment of Fish-Jaw, and Teeth, from Mul- 

 lica Hill, Gloucester Co., N. J. Presented by Chas. C. Abbott. 



Coregonus albus, from Lake Champlain ; Morone Americana, from New 

 York ; Morone pallida, from Delaware River. Presented by Thaddeus W. 

 Norris. 



November 6ih. Calyptraphorus trinodiferus, Athleta Tuomeyi. Eocene 

 fossils, from Alabama. Presented by T. A. Conrad. 



Hyalonema Sieboldii. Skin of Galeopithecus. From Japan. Presented 

 by Dr. Sinclair, U. S. N., through Dr. I. Hays. 



Two Baculites, from the New Jersey Green Sand. Presented by C. C. Cad- 

 walader. 



Two Coal Plants, from Virginia. Presented by Dr. Dixon. 



ISth. Retepora, a Devonian fossil, from Huntingdon Co., Pa. Presented 

 by W. J. Taylor. 



Pomotis auritus and Leuceoperca Americana, from Lake Erie. Presented by 

 Dr. J. C. Morris. 



20t}i. 27 specimens of Birds, from Jalapa, Mexico. Presented by Dr. Thos. 

 B. Wilson. 



Skull of a Gamanche Chief, stipposed to be that of Yellow Jack, from Texas. 

 Presented by A. E. Carothers. 



December 4th. The following Birds, collected by P. B. Du Chaillu in Western 

 Africa : — 



1 Gypohierax angolensis, (young,) from Cape Lopez. Presented by Dr. T, 



B. Wilson. 



2 Spizaetos, from Ogobai River. Presented by Mr. Joseph Jeanes. 



1 Micrastur macrouras, from Ogobai River. Presented by Mr. Samuel 

 Jeanes. 



1 Aviceda cuculoides, from Ogobai River. Presented by Prof. Jos. Leidy. 



1 Accipiter Toussenelli, 1 Accipiter Hartlaubii, from Ogobai River. Pre- 

 sented by Mr. Wm. S. Vans. 



1 Scotopelia Peli, from Moonda River ; 1 Symium Woodfordii, from Moonda 

 River; 3 Syrnium, (young,) from Ogobai River. Presented by Dr. Thos. B. 

 Wilson. 



2 Numida plumifera, from Cape Lopez. Presented by Dr. T. B. Wilson, 

 2 Phasidus niger, from Cape Lopez. Presented by Mr. Joseph Jeanes. 

 Five Coleoptera. Presented by E. D. Cope. 



A collection of 150 Coleoptera, from Upshur Co., Texas. Presented by J. M. 

 Glasco. 



A collection of Vertebrae and fragments of Jaw of Priscodelphinus. Frag- 

 ments of Crocodile and Turtle bones, together with an Ostrea. From the 

 Miocene Marl of Shiloh, N. J. Presented\v H. C. Wood, Jr. 



Four Coal Plants, and a small collection of Carboniferous Fossil Shells. 

 From Broad Top, Pa. Several specimens of Cyathophyllum. 50 species of 

 Native Mosses. Presented by H. C. Wood, Jr. 



Fragment of an Indian Cranium, from near Trenton. N. J. Presented by 



C. C. Abbott. 




DONATIONS TO MUSEUM. VU. 



lltk. 10 specimens of Birds, from Jalapa, Mexico. Accipiter gilvicollis, 

 Buteo, Ramphastos carinatus, Aulocoramphus prasinus, 2 Geotrygon, Den- 

 drortyx barbatus, Tinamus, Gallinago, and Calidris. Presented by Dr. Thos. 

 B. Wilson. 



The following, from Western Africa, from Du Chaillu's collection : — 



1 Polyboroides radiatus. Presented by Isaac Lea, LL. D. 



1 Haliaetus ; 1 Circsetus zonurus. Presented by Dr. T. B. Wilson, 



1 Chsetura Sabinei. Presented by Mr. Joseph Jeanes. 



3 Atticora nitens. Presented by Mr. Samuel Jeanes. 



2 Cecropis Gordoni. Presented by Dr. Joseph Leidy. 



1 Cypselus ambrosiacus ; 3 Caprimulgus Fossil. Presented by Mr. Wm. S. 

 Vaux. 



1 Eurjstomus afer; 1 Halcyon senegalensis. Presented by Dr. J. Dickinson 

 Logan. 



1 Halcyon Dryas. Presented by Mr. Edward Harris. 



1 Halcyon badins. Presented by Mr. J. C. Trautwine. 



1 Alcedo lencogaster. Presented by Prof. Fairman Rogers. 



2 Merops variegatus. Presented by Mr. W. Parker Foulke. 



1 Merops BuUockioides. Presented by Mr. Aubrey H. Smith. 



2 Meropiscus gularis ; 1 Trogon narina. Presented by Dr. T. B. Wilson. 



4 Sycobius nitens. From Dr. J. L. Le Conte. 



1 Sycobius cristatus ; 2 Sycobius nigrifrons. Presented by Mr. Charles E. 

 Smith. 



2 Sycobius malimbns. Presented by Dr. W. M. Uhler, 



2 Sycobius Cassinii. Presented by Mr. E. Durand. 



3 Hyphantornis cinctus. Presented by Dr. T. B. Wilson, 



1 Fossil Ostrea and 1 Pecten, from Tunis, Africa. Presented by Mr. Wm. 

 S. Vaux. 



A collection of Fossils, 12 specimens, from Scioto River, Delaware Co., Ohio. 

 Presented by Mr. A. L. Gerhart, 



2 specimens of Boa Constrictor, very iine. Presented by Messrs. Van Amburg 

 &Co. 



4 specimens of Infusorial Earth, from Calvert Co,, Md. Presented by P. T. 

 Tyson, 



5 specimens of Aphredoderus, from New Jersey. Presented by C. C, 

 Abbott, 



Two Salamanders, from Chester Co, Presented by E. D. Cope. 



ISth. 129 specimens, 8 species Fishes of the genera Pimelodus, Pomotis, 

 Stizostedion, Bryttus, Esox, Pimephales, and Hybognathus. 11 specimens, 

 4 species Reptiles of the genera Aspidonectes, Natrix, Thamnophis, and Bas- 

 canion. 3 skins of Sciurus Hudsonius, From Minnesota, Collected and 

 I)resented by Dr. J. H. Slack, 



A small collection of Insects and Spiders, from Canada. Presented by S. 

 H. Matthews. 





DOXATIONS TO LIBRARY. IX. 



Jahrgang, 1859, Denkschriften der Kaiser, Akad, der Wissenschaften, Mathe- 

 inat.-Natiirwissen. Classe, Banden 16 und 17. Jahrbucher der K. K. Central- 

 Anstalt fiir Meteorologie xmd Erdmagnetismus, von Karl Kreil, Band 6, Jahr- 

 gang, 1854. From the Imperial Academy of Sciences, Vienna. 



Kongliga Svenska Vetenskaps-Akademiens Handlingar. Ny Foljd. Andra 

 Bandet. Forsta Hiiftet. Kongliga Svenska Fregatten Eugenies Resa Omkring 

 .Jordan under befal af C. A. Virgin Aran 1851,-1853. Af K. Svenska Veten- 

 skaps-Akademiens. Zoologi, 3. From the Royal Academy of Sciences, Stock- 

 holm. 



Verhandelingen der Koninklijke Akademie van Wetenschappen, Deel 7. 

 .Taarbock van de K. Akad. von Wetenschappen, 1858. Verslagen an Mede- 

 deelingen dar Konink. Akad. van Wetenschappen. Afdeeling Latterkunde 

 Vierde Deel. Afdeeling Natnnrkunde Deal, 8 and 9. From the Royal Acade- 

 my of Sciences of Amsterdam. 



Ofversigt af Kongl. Vetenskaps-Akademiens Forhandlingar. Temtonde Ar- 

 gangen, 1858. From the Royal Academy of Sciences of Stockholm. 



Jahrblicher das Verains fiir IS^aturknnde im Herzogthxim Nassau, Heft. 13. 

 From the Natural History Society in Wiesbaden. 



Die Athysanus-Arten der Gegend von Wiesbaden von C. L. Kirschbaum. 

 4to. tract. Wiesbaden, 18-58. From the Author. 



Verhandlungan des naturhistorischen Vereins der preussischen Rhainlande 

 und Westphalens. Jahrgang 16, Erstes. — Yiertes Heft. From the Society in 

 Bonn. 



Neues Jahrbuch far Mineralogie, Geognosie, &c., von H. C. von Leonhard 

 und H. G. Bronn, Jahrgang, 1860, Erstes Heft. From the Editors, Stuttgart. 



Memoires de la Societe de Physique at d'Histoire Naturellede Geneve, Tome 

 15, Premiere Partie. From the Society. 



Journal of the Proceedings of the Linnean Society, Nos. 7 to 15, incl. Bo- 

 tany and Zoology. Supplements to Botany, Nos. 1 and 2, 1859. Addresses 

 of Thomas Bell, F. R. S., &c.. President of the Linnean Society, for the years 

 1858 and 1859. Lists of the Linnean Society, of London, for 1858 and 1859. 

 The Transactions of the Linnean Society of London. Vol. 23, parts 3 and 4. 

 From the Society in London. 



Forty-second Annual Report of the Trustees of the New York State Library. 

 1860. " From the Trustees. 



Hutching's California Magazine. Nos. 39 and 40, Sept. and Oct., 1859. 

 From the Publishers. 



Charleston Medical Journal and Review. Vol. 15, No. 3, May, 1860. From 

 the Elitor. 



Revue et Magasin de Zoologie pure et appliquee, par M. F. E. Guerin-Mene- 

 ville. No. 4, 1860. From the Editor. 



June 5th. Acta Societatis Scientiarum Indo-Neerlandicae, Volumina 3 et 4. 

 Natuurkundig Tijdschrift voor Nederlandisch Indie uitgegeven door de Natuur- 

 kundige vereeniging in Nederlandsch Indie Deel 14, Aflev. 4, 5, and 6, and 

 Deel. 15, 19, and 17. From the Netherlands India Society of Sciences, Bata- 

 via. 



Memoires de L'Academie Imperiale des Sciences, Arts et Belles-Lettres de 

 Dijon. 2d serie. Tome 7th. From the Academy. 



Memoires de La Societe Imperiale des Sciences Naturelles de Cherbourg, 

 Tome 6th, 1858. From the Society. 



The Gardeners' Monthly. Vol. 2, Nos. 1 to 6. From the Editor. 



The Canadian Journal of Industry, Science and Art. New series, No. 27, 

 May, 1860. From the Canadian Institute. 



The Dental Cosmos. New series, No. 11, Vol. 1, June, 1860. From the 

 Editors. 



The California Farmer, for April 27th, 1860. From the Editor. 



Proceedings of the Boston Society of Natural History. Vol. 7, pages 225 to 

 256. From the Society. 




X. DONATIONS TO LIBRARY. 



Laws and Regulations of the American Philosophical Society, together with 

 the Charter of the Society, and a list of its members. Philada., 1860. Pro- 

 ceedings of the American Philosophical Society. Vol. 7, January to June, 

 1860, No. 63. Transactions of the American Philosophical Society. Vol. 11, 

 new series, part 3d, 1860. From the Philosophical Society. 



The following is from Dr. T. B. Wilson, on the usual condition : 

 Bulletin Mensuel de La Societe d'Acclimatation Zoologique. Tom. 7, No. 4, 

 Avril, 1860. 



12th. List of Members of the Royal Lombard Institution of Science, Letters, 

 and Arts. From the Institution. 



The Canadian Journal of Industry, Science and Art. New series, ITo. 27, 

 May, 1860. From the Institute. 



Proceedings of the American Antiquarian Society. April 25th, 1860. From 

 the Society. 



The Annals of Science, by Hamilton L. Smith, for Jan., March, April and 

 May, 1854. From Dr. J. L. LeConte. 



Proceedings of the Royal Society of Edinburgh. Session 1858—59. From 

 the Royal Society of Edinburgh. 



The following are from Dr. Thos. B. Wilson, on the usual condition : 



Zur Fauna der Vorwelt, Von Hermann von Meyer, Viei-te Abtheilung, Liefe- 

 rung 2. 



Crania Britannica Decade 4. By Joseph Barnard Davis apd John Thurn- 

 ham. 



Palaeontograpliica, Von Hermann Von Meyer. 7 Baud, 2 Lieferuug, 8 Band, 

 3 Lieferung. 



Hewitson's Exotic Butterflies. Part 34th. 



Tables des Comptes Rendus des seances de L'Academie des Sciences. Tcme 

 47. 



Oiseaux de La Belgique et Leurs (Eufs. Liv. 131 and 132. 



Paleontologie Francais, Terrains Jurassiques, par Alcide D'Orbigny, Livr. 

 109 and 110. Terrains Cretaccs Livraisons 257 a 260. 



Histoire Naturelle des Coleopteres de France, par. M. C. Mulsant, Barbipalpes, 

 Longipedes-Latipennes, Paris, 1856. 



19tk. Rheinisches Museum fiir Philologie, von F- G. Welcker und F. Ritschl. 

 Neue Folge 15th Jahrgang, Heft. 2. From F. Leypoldt. 



The Northmen in Iceland. Svo., 1859. Saga Jatvardar Konungs Hins 

 Helga, Udgiven efter Islandske oldboger af det Kongelige Nordiske Oldskrift- 

 Selskab. Svo. tract, Copenhagen, 1852. From the Royal Society of Northern 

 Antiquaries of Copenhagen. 



Natuurkundige Tijdschrift voor Nederlandsch Indie uitgegeven door de 

 Natuurkundige Vereeniging in Nederlandsch Indie, Deel 18th. From the 

 Netherlands-India Society of Sciences. 



Bibliotheque Universelle Revue Suisse et Etrangere Archives des Sciences 

 Physiques et Naturelles. New series, vol. 7th, and vol. 8th, part 1, 1860, 

 Geneve. From the Editors. 



Caffeine, as an antidote in the poisonous narcotism of Opium. By Henry 

 Fraser Campbell, M. D. Svo. tract, August, 1850. From the Author. 



Southern Medical and Surgical Journal. Vol. 16, No. 5, June 1860. From 

 the Editors. 



California Farmer. Vol. 13, Nos. 11 to 13, 1860. From the Editor. 



American Medical Times, — being a weekly series of the New York Journal 

 of Medicine. Vol. 1, No. 1. New series, June 2d, 1860. From the Pub- 

 lishers. 



The American Handbook of Ornamental Trees. By Thomas Meehan. 18mo. 

 From the Author. 



The Gardeners' Monthly and Horticultural Advertiser. Vol. 1, Nos. 1 to 

 12, 1859. From the Editor. 




DONATIONS TO LIBRARY. xi. 



Palseoutology, or a Systematic Summary of Extinct Animals and their Geo- 

 logical Relations. By Richard Owen, F. R. S. Svo., Edinburgh, 1859. From 

 Mrs. Lucy W. Say. 



Journal of the Franklin Institute. 3d series, vol. 39, June, 1860, No. 6. 

 From Dr. T. B. Wilson, on the usual condition. 



Annales des Mines Cinquieme Serie Tome 15, 3d Livraison, 1859. Toma 

 16, 4th Livraison, 1859. From the Minister of Public Works, France. 



On the Alloys of Copper and Zinc. By Frank H. Storer. 4to. tract, Cam- 

 bridge, 1860. From the Author. 



July 3d. General view of the Agriculture of the different Counties of Great 

 Britain, drawn up for the consideration of the Board of Agriculture and In- 

 ternal Improvement. Forty-five vols. Svo. London, 1810 to 1813. From Dr. 

 John H. Janeway. 



The Dental Cosmos. Vol. 1, New Series, No. 12, July, 1860. From the 

 Editors. 



The California Farmer. Nos. 14 and 15, Vol. 13, Maj- and June, 1860. From 

 the Editor. 



Walpers, Annales Botanices Systematicae. Tomi. Quinti. Fasc. 5. From the 

 Author, Dr. Cbarles Mueller. 



Wahrnehmungen bei einer Bereisungdes Kupfer-und Blei-Gebeites im nord- 

 westlichen Theile der Vereinigten Staaten Nord-Amerika"s. Von Dr. Charles 

 Mayer Wetherill. Svo. tract Wien. From the Author. 



Ornithologie du Canada. Premiere Partie les Oiseaux de Proie et les Palmi- 

 pedes. Par J. M. Le Moine. 12mo., Quebec, 1860, From the Author. 



Revue et Magasin de Zoologie pure et appliquee. Par M. F. E. Guerin-Mene- 

 ville. No. 5, 1860. From the Author. 



The Gardener's Monthly. Vol. 2, No. 7, 1860. From the Editor. 



Southern Medical and Surgical Journal. Vol. 16, No. 7, July, 1860. From 

 the Editor. 



The Quarterly Journal of the Geological Society. Vol. 16, Part 2, ]\Iay Ist, 

 1860. From the Society. 



Address delivered at the Anniversary Meeting of the Geological Society of 

 London, February, 1860, by J. Phillips, Esq., President. From the Author. 



The Natural Historj^ of Washington Territory. By J. G. Cooper, M. D., and 

 Dr. G. Suckley, U. S. A. 4to, New York, 1859. From the Authors. 



An Illustration of the Genus Cinchona. By Aylmer Bourke Lambert, F. R. S., 

 &c. 4to. London, 1801. From A. J. Brazier. 



Reports of Explorations and Surveys to ascertain the most practicable and 

 economical route for a Railroad from the Mississippi River to the Pacific 

 Ocean, in 1853-6. Vol. 11, 4to. From the War Department. 



Report of the United States and Mexican Boundary Survey. By William H. 

 Emory, Major, &c. 3 vols., 4to. From John Cassia. 



lOth. Second, Third, Fourth, Fifth, Sixth, Seventh, Eighth, Ninth, Tenth, 

 Eleventh and Twelfth Reports of the State Board of Agriculture of the State of 

 Ohio. From the Legislature of Ohio. 



Rubi Germanici, descripti et figuris illustrati cura A. Weihe et Ch. G. Neesii 

 ab Esenbeck. Bonnae, 1822, fol. Fasiculi. 1 et 2. From B. Westerman & Co. 



American Medical Times. Vol. 1, No. 1, New Series, July 7th, 1860. From 

 the Editors. 



Notice of Tertiary Fossils from Labrador, Maine, kc, and remarks on the 

 Climate of Canada in the newer Pleiocene or Pleistocene period. By J. W. 

 Dawson. Svo. tract. From the Author. 



Proceedings of the Boston Society of Natural History. Vol. 7, June, 18C0, 

 Pages 257—288. From the Society. 



The Canadian Naturalist and Geologist. Vol. 5, No. 3. July, 1860. From 

 the Nat. Hist. Society of Montreal. 




Xll. DONATIONS TO LIBRARY. 



American Journal of Pharmacy. 3d Series, Vol. 8, Xo. 4, July, 1860. From 

 the Editor. 



Annual of Scientific Discovery, a Year Book of Facts in Science and Art. 2 

 vols., 1855 and 1858. From David M. Warren. 



Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge. Vol. 11, 4to., 1859. From the 

 Smithsonian Institution. 



The following are from Dr. T. B. Wilson, on the usual condition : 



Monographic des Picides. Par Alfred Malherbe. Livraison 4, 1859. 



Catalogue of Lepidoptera Heterocera in the British Museum. Part 19. Pv- 

 ralides, 1859, and Part 20. Geometrites. 



Bulletin Mensuel de la Societe Imperiale Zoologique d'Acclimatation. Tome T, 

 No. 5, May, 1860. 



Oiseaus de La Belgique et Leurs (Eufs. 133 and 134 Livr. 



Histoire Naturelle Generale des Regnes Organiques. Par M. Isidore Geoffroy 

 Saint-Hilaire. Tome 3, partie 1. 



Echinides du Departement de la Sarthe. Par Cotteau et Triger. Livrai- 

 son 5. 



Conchologia Iconica. By LovcU Reeve. Parts 195 and 196. 



I7th. Sitzungsbericbte der Dorpater Xaturforscher-Gesellschaft. 1854 bis 

 1856. Archiv fiir die Naturkunde Liv-, Esth-. und Kurland's Erste Serie Erster 

 Band. Zweite Serie. 1 und 2 Band. From the Natural History Society of Dorpat. 



Sitzungsbericbte der Kaiserl.-Akademie der Wissenschaften, Mathemat- 

 Naturwissenschaftliche. Classe Nos. 21 bis 28, 1859, und Nos. 1. und 2, 1860 

 From the Vienna Academy. 



Physikalische Abhandlungen der Konigl.-Akademie der Wissenschaften zu 

 Berlin, aus dem Jahre, 1858. Mathematische Abhandlungen der K. Akad. der 

 Wissen. zu Berlin. Jahre, 1858. Monatsberichte der Koaig. Preuss. Akad. der 

 Wissen. zu Berlin, 1859. From the Academy. 



Programmes des Cours de la Universite Catholique de Louvain, 1855 — 60. 

 Annuaire de la Universite, &c., 1855 — 1859. Theses fac. Theol., 181 — 251. 

 Theses fac. Medeicin, 41 — 50. Theses fac. Philosoph., 8 — 12. Theses fac. 

 Scient., 2 — 4. From the Catholic University of Louvain. 



Bulletin de L'Academie Imperiale des Sciences de St. Petersbourg. Tome 

 1, Feuilles 1 — 6. Memoires de L'Academie Imperiale des Sciences de St. 

 Petersbourg. Tome 1, 7th Serie. From the Academy. 



Abhandlungen von des Senckenbergischen Naturforschenden Gesellschaft. 

 Band 3, Lieferung 1. From the Society at Frankfurt A. Main. 



Novorum Actorum Academias C. L. C. Germanicce Naturse Curiosorum. 

 From the Academy at Jena. 



Correspondenz-Blatt des Zoologisch-minerologischen Vereins in Regens- 

 burg. 13th Jahrgang. From the Society. 



Berichte liber die Verhandlungen der Naturforschenden Gesellschaft zn 

 Freiburg i. B. Band. 2. Heft 2. From the Society. 



Berliner Entomologiscbe Zeitschrift. 3d Jahrgang, Viertes Heft. 4th Jahr- 

 gajig, Erstes Heft. From the Berlin Entomological Society. 



Sitzungsbericbte fiir das Gesellschaftsjahr, 1859. Wiirsburger Naturwis- 

 senschafliche Zeitschrift von der Physikal.- Medicin.- Gesellschaft. Band 1, 

 Heft 1. From the Society, Wiirzburg. 



Neues Jahrbuch fiir Mineralogie Geognosie, &c. Von R. C. von Leonhard 

 uad H. G. Bronn. 1860. Heft 2. From the Editors. 



Archiv fiir Naturgeschichte. Von Dr. F. H. Troschel. Jahrgang 25, Heftes 5. 



Actes de L'Academie Imperiale des Sciences Belles-Lettres et Arts de Bor- 

 deaux. 21st year, 1859. Trimestre 3. From the Academy. 



Verhandlungen des Vereines zur Beforderung des Gartenbaues in der Konig. 

 Preuss. Staaten. Neue Reihe. Jahrgang 7, Heft 2. Wochenschrift des Vereins 

 zur Beforderung des Gartenbaues, &c., fur Giirtnerei und Pflanzenkunde, 1860, 

 Nos. 1 bis 13, From the Societv. 




DONATIONS TO LIBRARY. Xlii. 



Ueber Inselbildung durch Korallen und Mangrovebiische. Von Dr. S. F. 

 Weinland. 8vo. tract, Stuttgart, 1860. From the Author. 



Rede zum Geburts-Feste des hochsteeligen Grossherzogs Karl Freiderich 

 von Baden und zur Akademischen Preisvertheilung am 22 November, 1859. 

 Von Dr. H. G. Bronn. 4to. tract, Heidelberg, 1859. From ihe Author. 



Iconographie des Helminthes ou des Vers Parasites de I'Homme. Vers 

 Cestoides par P. J. Von Beneden. 4to. tract, Louvain, 1859. From the Author. 



Mercantile Library Association, New York. 29th Annual Report, 1859-60. 

 From the Association. 



The American Journal of Science and Arts. Vol. 30, Second Series, No. 88, 

 July, 1860. From the Editors. 



The New Orleans Medical and Surgical Journal. Vol. 17, No. 4, July, 186C. 

 From the Editors. 



The North American Medico-Chirurgical Review. Vol. 4, No. 4, July, 1860. 

 From the Editors. 



Check lists of the Shells of North America, prepared for the Smithsonian In- 

 stitution by Isaac Lea, P. P. Carpenter, Wm. Stimpson, W. G. Binney and 

 Temple Prime. Catalogue of the described Lepidoptera of North America, 

 prepared for the Smithsonian Institution by John G. Morris. From the Smith- 

 sonian Institution. 



The California Farmer. Nos. 16 and 17, June, 1860. From the Editor. 



American Medical Times. Vol. 1, No. 2, July, 1860, From the Editors. 



The Mountain. By R. M. S. Jackson, M. D. From the Author. 



The following are from Dr. T. B. Wilson on the usual condition : 



Journal of the Franklin Institate. 3d Series, Vol. 40, July, 1860, No. 1. 



Iconographie des Perroquets non figures dans les publications de Levaillant 

 et de M. Bourjot Saint-Hilaire. Par M. Charles de Souance. 



August 1th. On the relative cost of illumination in Lafayette, Ind. Bv 

 Charles M. Wetherill, M. D. 8vo. tract, 1860. From the Author. 



American Medical Times. Nos. 3, 4 and 5, 1860. From the Editor. 



Revue et Magasin de Zoologie. No. 6, 1860. From the Editor. 



The American Journal of the Medical Sciences. New Series, No. 79, July, 

 1860. From the Editor. 



The Gardener's Monthly. Vol. 2, No. 8, 1860. From the Editor. 



Charleston Medical Journal and Review. Vol. 15, No. 4. From the Editor. 



Southern Medical and Surgical Journal. Vol. 16, No. 8. From the Editors. 



Journal of the American Geographical and Statistical Society. Vol. 2, No. 1, 

 1R60. From the Society. 



The Dental Cosmos. Vol. 2, No. 1, 1860. From the Editors. 



The Canadian Journal. New Series, No. 22, 1860. From the Canadian In- 

 stitute. 



The Mining Magazine and Journal of Geology, Ac. 2d Series, Vol. 1, No. 6. 

 From the Editor. 



The Texas Almanac for 1860. From C. S. Forshay. 



Description des Eaux Minero-Thermales et des Etuves de I'lsle d'Ischia. 

 Par J. E. E. Chevalley. From M. C. Lea. 



The Manufacture of Vinegar, its Theory and Practice, with especial reference 

 to the quick process. ByC. M. Wetherill. 8vo. From the Author. 



The Institutes of Medicine. By Martyn Paine, M. D. 8vo. From the 

 Author. 



lAtk. Der Zoologische Garten, Organ fiir die Zoologische Gesellschaft in 

 Frankfurt am Main. Jahrgang 1, Heft 1, bis 6, 1860. Ueber Inselbildung durch 

 Korallen und Mangrovebiische. Von Dr. F. Weinland. 8vo. tract, Stuttgart, 

 1860. Beobachtungen iiber die Anatomie des Nilcrocodils, eine loaugural- 

 Dissertation. Adolph Jager. 8vo. tract, Tubingen, 1837. Ueber Zwei am 

 Becken Verwachsene Miinnlichen Kalber. Von Dr. G. V. Jaeger. 8vo. tract. 

 Ueber die Ideaditat des Europaischen und Amerikanischen Bison. Von Dr. G. 



41 




XIV. DONTIONS TO LIBRARY. 



V. Jaeger. 8vo. tract. Bemerkungen iiber die Veriiaderung der Zahne Ton 

 Saugethiere im Laufe ihrer Entwickelung, nanientliche bie dem Narwhal und 

 dem Cachalot. Von Dr. G. V. Jaeger. 8vo. tract, Moskau, 1857. Ueber einen 

 durch ripgformige Erhohungen (Wachstumringe?) ausgezeichneten hochst 

 •wahrscheinlich fossilen Stosszahn des Elephauten. Von Dr. G. V. Jaeger. 

 8ro. tract, Moskau, 1857. Ueber da Zusammengesetzen Magea Verscheidener 

 Thiere, Eine Inaugural-Dissertation. Von Freidriche Martin Duttenhoffer. 4to. 

 tract, Tubingen, 1832. From Dr. Joseph Leidy. 



Report on Canadian Graptolites. By James Hall, Montreal, 1858, 8vo. tract. 

 From the Author. 



American Medical Times. Vol. 1, No. 6, 1860. From the Editor. 



Proceedings of the Boston Society of Natural History. Vol. 7, pages 289 to 

 320 inel. From the Society. 



Table de mortalite pour le Brabant, d'apres les documents du recensement de 

 1856. Par M. Ad. Quetelet. 8vo. tract. Eclipse de Soleil du 15 Mars, 1858. 

 Notice par M. Ad. Quetelet. 8vo. tract. From the Author. 



Sur la difference des longitudes entre Berlin et Bruxelles determinee par la 

 telegraphie electrique. Par M. Eneke. From the Author. 



Note sur I'Aurore Boreale du 21 Avriel, 1859. Par M. Ernest Quetelet. From 

 the Author. 



Annuaire de I'Academie Royale des Sciences, des Lettres, et des Beaux-Arts 

 de Belgique, 1859. Bulletins de I'Academie Royale des Sciences, &c., de Belgique 

 Tome 4, 5 and 6, 2d serie. Tables Generales et Analytiques du recueil des 

 Bulletins de I'Academie Royal, &c., de Belgique, 1st Serie, Tome 1 a 23. Me- 

 moires Couronnes et autres memoires publics par I'Academie Royale, &c., de 

 Belgique, Collection in 8vo., Tome 8. Memoires de I'Academie Royale, &c., de 

 Belgique. 4to., Tome 31. Memoires Couronnes et memoires des Savants 

 Etrangeres, Publics par I'Academie Royale, &c., de Belgique. 4to. Tome 29. 

 From the Academy. 



The Naturalist's Library, Mammalia. Vol. 10, Dogs. By Lieut. Col. Chas. 

 Hamilton Smith. From C. W. Frost. 



The following are from Dr. T. B. Wilson on the usual condition ; 



Bibliotheca Historico-Naturalis Physico-Chemica et Mathematica, 1858, July 

 to December, and July to December 1859. By Ernest A. Zuchold. 



Bulletin Mensuel de la Societe Imperiale Zoologique d'Acclimatation. Tome 

 7, No. 6, Juin, 1860. 



Journal of the Franklin Institute. 3d Series, Vol. 40, August, 1860, No. 2. 



Sept. iik. The inferior surface of the Trilobite discovered. By Jacob Green, 

 M. D. 12rao., Philadelphia, 1839. Advantages of Chemistry, an Introductory 

 Address. By Jacob Green, M. D. 12mo., Philadelphia, 1834. From Wm. L. 

 Mactier. 



American Medical Times. Vol. 1. Nos. 7, 8 and 9. From the Editor. 



The following are from Dr. T. B. Wilson on the usual condition : 



Dr. A. Th. V. Middendorflfs Sibirische Reise. Band 4, Theil 1, 4to., St. 

 Petersburg, 1859. Karten-Atlas zu Dr. A. V. Middendorff's Reise in den Aus- 

 sersten Norden und Osten Sibiriens. 1859. 



Zoologischer Hand-Atlas. Von Dr. Hermann Burmeister. 4 Lieferung. 



Description des Animaux sans vertebres decouverts dans le Bassin de Paris, 

 &c. Par G. P. Deshayes. 19 and 20 Livraisons. 



Tresor de Livres rares et precieux ou Noveau Dictionnaire Bibliographique. 

 J. G. T. Grsesse. Tome 2, Livr. 3. 



Conchologia Iconica. By Lovell Reeve, F. L. S. Parts 197 and 198. 



Echinides des Departement de la Sarthe par Cotteau et Triger. 4th Liv- 

 raison. 



Diagnosis Plantarum Novarum prjesertim Orientalium nonnullis Europaeis 

 Boreali-Africanisque additis. Series 2, Nos. 4 and 6. Auctore E. Bossier, 

 1859. 




DONATIONS TO LIBRARY. XV. 



Naturgeschichte der Insectea Deutschlands begonnea von Dr. W. F. Erich- 

 sou, fortgesetzt von Prof. Dr. H. Schaum. Dr. G. Kraatz und H. v. Kiesenwetter 

 Erste Abtheilung Coleoptera. Erster Baad, Lieferung 4. Berlin, 1&60. 



Bulletin Mensuel de la Societelmperiale Zoologique d'A.cclimatatioa. Tome 

 7, No. 7, Juillet, 1860. 



Monographic des Picides. Par Alfred Malherbe. Livr. 5. 



Systematisches Conchyliea-Cabinet. Voa Martini und Chemnitz. 17lsi 

 Lieferung. 



Katalog Naturwissenschaflicher Werke aus den Antiquarischen lager. Von 

 F. U. Wiegel. 



B. Westermann & Co.'s General Catalogue. 



California Farmer. Vol. 13, Nos. 18—22. From the Editor. 



Revue et .Magasin de Zoologie pure et appliquee. Par M. F. E. Gueria-Mene- 

 ville. 1860, No. 7. From the Editor. 



Review of Professor Paine's Institutes of Medicine. By Bennett Dowler, M. D. 

 8vo. tract. From the Author. 



Catalogue of the Terrestrial and Fluviatile Gasteropods of North America. 

 By W. G. Binney. From the Author. 

 * The Gardener's .Monthly. Vol. 2, No. 9. From the Editor. 



Proceedings of the Royal Society. Vol. 10, No. 38. Fi'om the Society. 



Twelfth Annual Report of the Board of Managers and Treasurer of the Ma.ry- 

 land Institute. From the Institute. 



lltk. Catalogue of the Phaenogamoas and Filicoid Plants of Newcastle 

 County, Delaware. By Edward Tatnall. 8vo., 1860. From the Author. 



American Medical Times. Vol. 1, No. 10. From the Editor. 



Southern Medical and Surgical Journal. Vol. 16, No. 9, September, 1860. 

 From the Editors. 



The New Orleans Medical and Surgical Journal. Vol. 17, Sept., 1860, No. 5. 

 From the Editors. 



American Journal of Pharmacy. 3d Series, Vol. 8, No. 5, Sept., 1360. From 

 the Editor. 



The Dental Cosmos. Vol. 2, No. 2. From the Editors. 



The North American Medico-Chirurgical Review. Vol. 4, No. 5, Sept., 18G0. 

 From the Editors. 



The Canadian Naturalist and Geologist, and Proceedings of the Natural His- 

 tory Society of Montreal. Vol. 5, No. 4, August, 1860. From the Society. 



Icthyologie Aualytique ou Essai d'une classification Naturelle des Poissons. 

 Par A. M. C. Dumeril. 4to., Paris, 1856. From Wm. M. Gabb. 



I8th. Troncature normale ou periodique de la coquille dans certains ccphalo- 

 podes paleozoiques. Par M. Barrande 8vo. tract, 1860. Etat actuel des 

 connaissances acquises sur la faiine primordiale. Par M. Barrande. 8vo. tract, 



1859. Colonies dans le bassin Silurien de la Boheme. Par M. J. Barrande. 



1860, 870. tract. Faune primordiale dans la chaine Cantabrique. Par MM. 

 Casians de Prado, Ed. de Verneuil et J. Barrande. 8vo. tract, 1860. Parallele 

 entre les depots siluriens de BohSme et d' Scandinavie. Par Joachim Barrande. 

 4lo. tract, Prague, 1856. From the Author. 



American Medical Times. Vol. 1, No. 11. From the Editors. 



California Farmer. August, 1850, Nos. 23 and 24. From the Editors. 



Charleston Medical Journal and Review. Vol. 15, No. 5, Sept., I860. From 

 the Editor. 



Elinburgh new Philosophical Journal. New Series, Vol. 12, No. 1, July, 

 1860. From the Editors. 



The American Journal of Science and Arts. Vol. 30, No. 89, Sept., 1860. 

 From the Editors. 



Catalogue of the Lepidopterous Insects in the Museum of Natural History at 

 the East India House. By Thomas Horsfield and Frederic Moore. Vol. 2, 8vo., 

 Loudon, 1858-9. From the Secretary of State for India. 




XVI. DONATIONS TO LIBRARY. 



Descriptions of five new species of Gasteropoda from the Coal Measures, and 

 a Brachiopod from the Pottsdam Sandstone of Texas. By B. F. Shumard, M. D. 

 8vo. tract, 1860. Observations upon the Cretaceous Strata of Texas. By B. F. 

 Shumard, 8vo. tract, 1860. Descriptions of new Cretaceous Fossils from Texas. 

 By B. F. Shumard, M. D. 8vo. tract. From the Author. 



The following are from Mrs. Lucy W. Say : 



Manuel de Conchyliologie et de Paleontologie coachyliologique. Par le Dr, 

 J. C. Chenu. Tome premier, 8vo., Paris, 1860. 



Traite generale d'Oologie Ornithologique, au point de vue de la classification, 

 par 0. des Slurs. 8vo., Paris, I860. 



Calaloi^ue of Acanthopterygian Fishes in the Collection of the British Mu- 

 seum. By Dr. Albert Giinther. Vol. 1, 8vo., London, 1859. 



Histoire Naturelle generale et particuliere des Reptiles. Par F. M. Dandin. 

 8vo. Vol. 8, Paris, 1802. 



The followiog are from Dr. Thomas B. Wilgon on the usual condition : 



Bryologia Javanica. Fasciculi 21 and 32. 



Noritatts Conchologica;. 12 Liefetung, Tome 1. 



PalcBontographica. Von Hermann von Meyer. Band 7, Lief. 3, Band 8, 

 Lief. 4. 



Journal of the Franklin Institute. Vol. 40, No. 3, Sept., 1860. 



Histoire Naturelle des CoraUiaires ou Polypes proprement dits. Par H. Milne 

 Edwards. (Text.) Tome 3, Planches, Livr. 3, Paris, 1860. 



October 2(1. The "Weal Reaf, a record of the Essex Institute Fair, held at 

 Salem, Sept. 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 10 and 11, 1860. From the Institute. 



Artificial Lactation. By Charles M. Welherill, M. D. 8vo. tract, 1860. From 

 the Author. 



American Medical Times. Nos. 12 and 13, Vol. 1. From the Editor. 



Natuurkundig Tijdschrift voor Nederlandsch Indie uitgegeven door de 

 Katuurkundige Vereeniging in Nederlandsch Indie. Deel 20, Vierde Serie Deel 



6. From the Society. 



Revue et Magasin de Zoologie pure et appliquee. No. 8, 1860, From the 

 Editor. , 



Bibliotheque Universelle Revue Suisse et Etrangere. Tome 8, No. 32, 1860. 

 From the Editors. 



The Transactions of the Academy of Science of St. Louis. Vol. 1, No. 4. 

 From the Academy. 



The following are from Dr. T. B. Wilson on the usual conditition : 



Bulletin Mensuel de la Societe Imperiale Zoologique d'Acclimatation. Tome 



7, No. 8. 



An illustrated and descriptive Catalogue of recent shells. By Sylvanus 

 Hanley. Part 3d, Letter-press and Plates. 8vo., London, 1842 to 1856. 



The Dental Cosmos. Vol. 2, No. 4, October. From the Editors. 



The American Journal of the Medical Sciences. No. 80, October, 1860. 

 From the Editor. 



9th. On a Terrestrial Mollusk, a Chilognathous Myriapod, and some New 

 Species of Repiiles, from the Coal-Formation of Nova Scotia. By J, W. Daw- 

 son. 8vo tract, Montreal, 1860. From the Author. 



American Medical Times. Vol. 1, No. 14, Oct. 6. From the Editor. 



Annales des Mines, Cinquieme Serie. Tome 16, 5th Livraisoa. From the 

 Minister of Public Works, France. 



Geological Survey of Canada, Report of Progress for the year 1858. 8vo., 

 Montreal, 1859. From the Geolog. Survey. 



The following are from Dr. T. B. Wilson on the usual condition : 



Journal of the Franklin Institute. Vol. 40, No. 4, October. 



Paleontologie Lombarde ou description des Fossiles de Lombarde. Par 

 Antoine Stoppani. 12 Livraison. 




DONATIONS TO LIBRARY. XVU. 



Dr. A. Th. V. MiddendorflTs Sibirische Reise. Band 4, Theil 1, Zweite Lic- 

 feruDg. 



Dubois Oiseaux de la Belgique et de leurs Oe ifi. Livr. 135 and 136. 



Die Vogel Griechenlands. Von Dr. Ritter A. Lindermayer. Passau. 8vo., 

 1860. 



Bibliotheca Hlstorico-Naturalis. Von Ernest A. Zuchold Erster Jahrgang, 

 1851, Hefts 1 und 2. 



October I6th. Tlie Gardeners Monthly, Vol. 'id, No. 10, Oct., 1860. From 

 the Editor. 



Annual Reports of the Trustees of the New York State Library for the years 

 1857; 58, 59, and 60. Twelfth Annual Report of the Regents of the University 

 on the condition of the State Cabinet of Natural History, for the years 1857, 

 58 and 59. Seventy-third Annual Report of the Regents of the University 

 made January 28th, 1860. Catalogue of the New York State Library. Vol. 4, 

 8vo. Results of a series of Meteorological Observations, made in obedience to 

 instructions from the Regents of the University. From 1826 to 1850 inclusive. 

 From the Regents of the University of the State of New York. 



A Practical Dictionary of the English and German languages in two parts, 

 English and German and German and English. By Dr. Felix FlUgel, under the 

 cooperation of Dr. J. G. Fliigel. 2 vols., 8vo. Leipsic, 1858. From Mrs. Lucy 

 W. Say. 



First Report of Philip T. Tyson, State Agricultural Chemist, to the House of 

 Delegates of Maryland, January, 1860. 8vo., Annapolis. From the Author. 



23d. An Elementary Treatise on Human Anatomy. By Joseph Leidy, M. D. 

 8vo., Philadelphia, 1860. From the Author. 



Review of the American Bombidie, together with a description of several 

 species heretofore undescribed. 8vo., tract, 1860. From the Author. 



The Canadian Journal of Industry, Science and Art. New Series. No. 29, 

 September, 1860. From the Canadian Institute. 



American Medical Times. Vol. 1, Ncs. 15 and 16, 1860. From the Editors. 



Proceedings of the Royal Physical Society of Edinburgh, 1854 to 1858, Vol. 

 1. From the Royal Physical Society. 



The Quarterly Journal of the Geological Society. Vol. 16, Part 3, No. 63. 

 From the Geological Society of London. 



Proceedings of the Royal Society of London. Vol. 10, No. 39. From the 

 Royal Society. 



Report of the Proceedings of the Geological and Polytechnic Society of the 

 West Riding of Yorkshire, 1859, From the Society. 



Fortieth Report of the Council of the Leeds Philosophical and Literary So- 

 ciety, 1859-60. Sensorial Vision. By Sir J. F. W. Herschel. 8vo. tract, 1858. 

 The Physical condition of the people in its bearing upon their social and moral 

 welfare^ By Rt. Rev. R. Bickersteth. 8vo. tract, 1860. From the Leeds Phii. 

 and Lit. Society. 



Memoirs of the Literary and Philosophical Society of Manchester. Second 

 Series, Vol. 15, Part 2. Proceedings of the Literary and Philosophical Society, 

 pages 60 to 252 inclusive, for 1858-59. From the Society. 



The Journal of the Society of Arts and of the Institutions in Union. Vol. 8, 

 Nos. 376 to 401 inclusive, from Feb. 3d, 1860, to July 27th, 1860. From the 

 Society of Arts, London. 



Actes de I'Academie Imperiale des Sciences, Belles-Lettres et Arts de Bor- 

 deaux. 3d Ser,, 21 An., 1859, 4 Trimes. From theAcademy. 



Vierter und Achter Bericht der Oberhessischen Gesellschaft fur Natur- und 

 Heilkunde. 1854 and '60. From the Society. 



Kleine Schriften der Naturforschenden Gesellschaft in Emden. Nos. 6 and 7. 

 Funfundvierzigster Jahresberichte der Naturforschenden Gesellschaft in Em- 

 den, 1859. From the Society. 



41* 




XVUl. DONATIONS TO LIBRARY. 



Verhandlungen der Russich-Kaiserlichen Mineralogischen Gesellschaft zu St. 

 Petersburg. Jahrgang, 1842, 1850 und '51, 1852 und '53, 1857 und '58. From 

 the Society. 



Bulletin de I'Academie Imperiale des Sciences de St. Petersbourg. Tome 1, 

 Feuilles 7-36. Memoires de I'Academie Imperiale des Sciences de St. Peters- 

 bourg. 7 Serie, Tome 2, Nos. 1—3, 1859. From the Academy, 



Archiv des Vereins der Freunde der Naturgeschichte in Mecklenburg. Jahr. 

 14, 1860. From the Society in Mecklenburg. 



Zeitschrift der Deutschen geologischen Gesellschaft. Band 11, Heft 3, 1859. 

 From the Society in Berlin. 



Nachrichien von der Georg-August-Universitatsund der Konigl. Gesellschaft 

 der Wissenschaften zu Gottingen. Jahre, 1859. From the Society. 



Neues Jahrbuch fiir Mineralogie Geognosie, Geologic und Petrefakten-kunde. 

 Von R. C. von Leonhard und H. G. Bronn. Jahrgang, 1860, Heft 3. From the 

 Editors. 



Uber die "Wohnsitze der Brachiopoden. Von Prof. Edward Suess. No. 2, 

 Wein, 1860. From the Author. 



Denkschriften der Kaiserl. Akad. der Wissenschaften, Mathematisch-Natur- 

 wissen. Classe, Band 18. Sitzungsberichte der Kaiserl. Akad. der Wissen- 

 schaftliche. Classe, Band 39, Nos. 3, 4 und 5. Band 40, Nos. 7, 8 und 10. From 

 the Academy. 



Verhandlungen der Kaiser.- Konig. Zoologisch-botanischen Gesellschaft in 

 Wien. Jahrgang, 1S59. From the Society. 



.Jahrbuch der Kaiser.-Konigl. Geologischen Reichsanstalt. Jahrgang 10. 

 1859, Nos. 3 und 4. From the Institute. 



Rede zum Geburts-Feste des hochsteeligen Grossherzogs Karl Frederich von 

 Baden und ziir akademischen Preisvertheilung am 22. November, 1859. Von 

 Dr. Hetnrich Georg Bronn. 4to. tract. From the Author. 



Tableau Methodique et Descriptif des MoUusques Terrestres et d'Eau douce 

 de I'Agenais. Par J. B. Gassies. 8vo., Paris, 1849. From the Author. 



Journal de Conchyliologie. Tome 8, Nos. 1 et 2, I860. From the Editors, 

 MM. Fischer et Bernardi. 



Monographic des Genres Galatea et Fischeria, par le Chevalier A. C. Ber- 

 nard!. 4to., Paris, 1860. From the Author. 



Bulletins de I'Academie Royal des Sciences, des Lettres et des Beaux- Arts de 

 Belgique, 28 An. 2 Ser. Tomes 7 et 8. Memoires Couronnes et Autres publies. 

 par I'Academie Royale, &c., collec. in 8vo., Tomes 9 and 10. Annnaire de 

 I'Academie Royale, &c., 26th An., 1860. Observations des Phenomenes 

 Periodiques. Sur la difference de Longitude des Observations de Bruxelles et 

 Berlin, determinee en 1857, par des signaux Galvaniques. From the Academy. 



November 6tk. Revue et Magasin de Zoologie pure et appliqnee. Par M. F. 

 E. Guerin-Meneville. No. 9, 1860. From the Editor. 



Southern Medical and Surgical Journal. Vol. 16, No. 18, 1860. From the 

 Editors. 



Proceedings of the Boston Society of Natural History. Vol. 7, pages 321 to 

 352 inch From the Society. 



Proceedings of the Essex Institute. Vol. 2, Part 2. From the Institute. 



The Dental Cosmos. Vol. 2, No. 4. From the Editors. 



The American Medical Times. Vol. 1, Nos. 17 and 18. From the Editor. 



The New Orleans Medical and Surgical Journal for Nov., 1860. From the 

 Editors. 



Proceedings of the Literary and Philosophical Society of Liverpool during 

 the 49th Session, 1859-60, No. 14. From the Society. 



Proceedings of the Royal Society. Vol. 10, No. 40. From the Society. 



Edinburgh New Philosophical Journal. New Series, No. 24, Vol. 12, No. 2. 

 October, I860. From the Editors. 



Sur le Neocomien dans le Jura et son role dans la serie Stratigrapbique. Par 

 Jules Marcou. Geneve, 1858, 8vo. From the Author. 




DONATIONS TO LIBRARY. xix. 



Actes de TAcademie Imperiale des Sciences, Belles-Lettres et Arts de Bor- 

 deaux. 3d Ser. 22 An.. 1860, 2d Trimes. From the Academy. 



Etudes Organiques sur les Cuscutes. Par M. Charles Des Moulins. 8vo.. 

 Toulouse, 1853. Catalogue Roissonne des Phanerogaraes de la Dordogne Sup- 

 plement final, 1858. Par M. Charles des Moulins. 8vo., Bordeaux 1859. Les 

 Savants Vojageurs a Bordeaux. Documents relatifs a la faculte Germinative 

 conservee par quelques graines antiques. Sur les Chrvsanthemes d'Automne 

 de nos jardins et sur quelques plantes qui leur sent congeneres. Xote sur le 

 Sisymbrium Bursifolium de La Peyrouse. Deuxieme et Troisieme Memoires 

 relatif aux causes qui paraissent influer particulierement sur la croissance de 

 certains Vegetaux dans des conditions dcterminees. Discours sur revolution 

 des forces vitales dans la nature. Erythraja et Cyclamen de la Gironde. Rap- 

 port sur le mouvement Scientifique archeologique et litterare dans la Gronde 

 de 1855 a 1S57. Documents relatifs a la naturalisation en France du Painicnm 

 digitaria. Resume d'une publication de M. E. A. Carriore iutitulee, les Hommes 

 et les Choses en 1857. De la propriete litteraire en Matiere de nomenclature 

 scientifique. Comparaison des Departements de la Gironde et de la Dordogne 

 sous le rapport de leur vegetation spontanee et de leurs cultures. Par M. 

 Charles des Moulins. 13 8vo. tracts. From the Author. 



Memoires de 1' Academic Imperiale des Sciences, Belles-Lettres et Arts de 

 Lyon. Tomes 7, 8 et 9. From the Academy. 



Nova Acta Regiae Societatus Scientiarum UpsaJiensis. Serie Tertiie. Vol. 2. 

 Arsskrift utgifven af Kongl. Vetenskaps-Societeten i Upsala, Forsta iirgiingen. 

 From the Society in Upsala. 



Bulletin de la Societe Imperiale des Naturalistes de Moscou. Nos. 2, 3, and 

 4, 1859, No. 1, 1860. Nouveaux Memoire de la Societe Imperiale des Natural- 

 istes de Moscou. Tomes 11, 12 and 13, Livraison 1. From the Society. 



Academic des Sciences et Lettres de Montpelier Memories de la Section de 

 Medecine. Tome 3, Fasciculis 1 and 2. From the Academy. 



G. Th. Fechner, Ueber einige Verhaltnisse des Binocular Sehens. 4to., Leip- 

 zig, 1860. G. Mettenius, Zwei Abhandlungen. 1, Beitrage zur Anatomic der 

 Cycadeen. 2 ijber Seitenknospen bei Farner. 8vo., Leipzig, 1869. P. A. Han- 

 sen Auseinandersetzung einer Zweckmiissigen Methode zur Berechnung der 

 abzoluten Storungen der kleinen Planeten. Dritte Abhandlung. 8vo., Liepzig. 

 Berichte iiber die Verhandlungen der Koniglich Siichsischen Gesellschafi der 

 Wissenschaften zu Leipzig. Heft 1, 2 3 und 4, 1859 and 1860. From the 

 Society. 



Der Zoologische Garten Organ der Zoologischen Gesellschaft in Frankfurt am 

 Main. Jahr. 1, Nos. 7 — 12. From the Society. 



Zeitschrift der deutschen geologischen Gesellschaft. Band 11, Heft. 4. From 

 the Society. 



Memoires la Societe Imperiale des Sciences Naturelles de Cherbourg. Tome 

 7, 1859. From the Society. 



Plantes vasculaires des environs de Cherbourg. Par Auguste le Jolis. Svo., 

 /Paris, 1860. From the Author. 



Archiv fur Naturgeschichte. Von Dr. F. H. Troschel. 25 Jahr., Heft. 6 und 

 Jahr. 25, Heft. 1. Prom Dr. Troschel. 



11th Katalog Naturwissenschaftlicher Werke aus den antiquarischeu Lager. 

 Von F. 0. Wiegel. From the Author. 



Uth. The rock oils of Ohio. By. J. S. Newberry. Svo. tract, 1859. From 

 the Author. 



Southern Medical and Surgical Journal. Vol. 17, No. 11, Nov., 1860. From 

 the Editors. 



The North American Medico-Chirurgical Review. Vol. 4, No. 6, Nov., I860. 

 From the Editors. 



American Medical Times. Vol. 1, No. 19, Nov., 1860. From the Editors. 




XX. DONATIONS TO LIBRARY. 



American Journal of Pharmacy, 3d series, vol. 8. No. 6, Nov., 1860. From 

 the Editor. 



The Gardener's Monthly, vol. 2, Xo. 11, Nov., 1860. From the Editor. 



Bulletin de la Societe Botanique de France. Tome 6, No. 8, 1859. Hom- 

 mage Rendu a la Memoire de M. Alexandre de Humboldt dans la seance du 13 

 Mai, 1859. From M. Chs. de Moulins. 



Walpers. Annales Botanices Systematica. Tome 5, fasc. 6. Auct. Dr. 

 Carolo Mueller. From the Author. 



The Proceedings of the Zoological Society of London, 1859. Part 3, June 

 to December. From the Zoological Society. 



Due Lettere de Prof. Michele Tenore con alcune Notizie sull' Isola d'Ischia. 

 Ed. 2, Napoli, 1858. 8vo. tract. Ricerche suUa classificazione de Platini M. 

 Tenore. 4to. tract. 1856. Sopra Alcuni Alberi mentovati negli scrittori del 

 medio evo, osservazioni di Michele Tenore. Sopra aicune specie di Cipressi 

 osservazioni del Cav. Prof Michele Tenore. 4to. tract. Modena, 1853. Cata- 

 logo del Real Orto Botanico di Napoli. 4to. 1845. Michele Tenore. From 

 E. Durand. 



Essais de Geographic Malacologique par MM. les Docteurs De Grateloup et 

 Vor Paulin. 8vo. Bordeaux, 1855. Conchyliologie Fossile des terrains Ter- 

 tiaires du Bassin de I'Adour, par M. le Dr. Grateloup. Atlas. 4to. 1840. From 

 M. de Grateloup. 



The following are from Dr. T. B. Wilson, on the usual condition : 



Bulletin Mensuel de la Societe Imperiale Zoologique d'Acclimatation. Tome 

 1, No. 9. Sept., 1860. 



The Natural Historv of the Tineina, (vol. 5,) containing Coleophora. Part 2, 

 8vo. 1860. By H. T.'Stainton. 



Conchologia Iconica. By Lovell Reeve. Part 199. 



Palaeontographica. Beitriige zur Naturgeschichte der Vorwelt. Band 8. 

 Lieferung 5. Von Hermann von Meyer. Band 9. Lieferung 1. Von Wilhelm 

 Dunker. Cassel, 1860. 



Tresor de Livres rares et precieux, ou Nouveaux Dictionnaire Biblio- 

 graphique. Tome 2. Livr. 4. 



Zoologischer Hand-Atlas von Dr. Hermann Burmeister. Lieferung 5. 



Exploration Scientifique de I'Algerie, Botanique. Livraison 12 — 17. 



Monographie des Picides, par Alfred Malherbe. Livraison 6. 



Journal of the Franklin Institute, vol. 40, No. 5, Nov., 1860. 



2Qih. American Medical Times, vol. 1, No. 10. From the Editors. 



The New Orleans Medical and Surgical Journal, vol. 17, No. 6, Nov., 1860. 

 From the Editors. 



Charleston Medical Journal and Review, vol. 15, No. 6, Nov., 18G0. From 

 the Editor. 



Bibliotheque Universelle Revue Suisse et Etrangere. Tome 9, No. 34, Oct., 

 1860. 



The following are from Dr. Thomas B. Wilson, on the usual condition : — 



Echinides du Departement de la Sarthe par Cotteau et Triger. Livraison 6. 



Novitates Conchologicae, par Dr. Louis PfeifFer. Livraison 13, 14. 



Monographie des Picides, par Alfred Malherbe. Livr. 7. 



December 4th. Annales des Sciencias e Lettras, publicados debaixo dos 

 auspicios da Academia Real das Sciencias. Sciencias Mathematicas, Physicas, 

 Historico-Naturaes e Medicas. Tomo 1. Primiero Anno. Outubro de 1857. 

 Fevereiro de 1858. Tomo 2. Anno 2. Marco de 1858. Julhode, 1858. An- 

 nales Sc. Sciencias Moraes, Politicas e Bellas Lettras. Tomo 1. Anno 1. Sep- 

 tembro de 1857. Fevereiro de 1858. Tomo 2. Anno 2. Marcode, 1858. No- 

 vembro de 1858. Collegao de Opuscules Reimpressos relatives a Historia das 

 Navegagoes, &c. dos Portuguezes, pela Acad. Real dos Sciencias. Tomo 1, No. 

 3. Historia da Prouincia Santa Cruz, feita por pero de Magolhaes de Gan- 

 davo. Quadro Elementar das relagoes politicas e diplomaticas de Portugal 




DONATIONS TO LIBRARY. XXI. 



com as diversas Potencias do Mundo. Tomo 16 e 17. Lendas da India per 

 Gaspar Correa. Tomo 1. Parte 1. e Parte 2. 4to. Memorias da Academia 

 Real das Sciencias de Lisboa. Classe de Sciencias Mathematicas, Physicas e 

 Naturaes. Nova Serie. Tom. 2, parte 1. Portugalliae Inscriptiones Romanas 

 edidit. Levy Maria Jordao. Vol. 1. Portugalliae Monumenta Historica a sjeculc 

 octavo post Christum usque ad quintumdecimum. Leges et consuetudines. 

 Vol. 1, fasc. 2. From the Royal Academy of Sciences of Lisbon. 



The California Farmer, vol. 14, Nos. 8, 9 and 10. From the Editors. 



The Dental Cosmos, vol. 2, No. 5, Dec, 1860. From the Editors. 



Revue et Magasin de Zoologie pure et appliquee. No. 10, 1860. From the 

 Editor. 



Further Remarks on Numerical Relations between Equivalents. By M. Carey 

 Lea. 8vo. tract. 1860. From the Author. 



Catalogue of the Flowering Plants and Ferns of Ohio. By J. S. Newberry, 

 M.D. 8vo. tract. Columbus, 1860. From the Author. 



Supplementary Chapter to Acadian Geology. By J. W. Dawson, LL.D., Ac. 

 12mo. Edinburgh, 1860. From the Author. 



Southern Medical and Surgical Journal, vol. 16, No. 12, Dec, 1860. From 

 the Editors. 



American Medical Times, vol. 1, Nos. 21 and 22, Nov., 1860. From the 

 Editors. 



The American Journal of Science and Arts, vol. 30, 2d series. No. 90, Nov., 

 1860. From the Editors. 



The Canadian Naturali.st and Geologist, vol. 5, No, 5, Oct., 1860. From the 

 Natural History Society of Montreal. 



Observations on the Genus Unio. By Isaac Lea, LL.D., &c. Vol. 8, part 1. 

 4to. I860. From the Author. 



Athanasii Kircheri e Soc. Jesu Mundus Subterraneus. Tomus 1. Folio. 

 Amsterdam, 1668. A General Natural History of new and accurate descrip- 

 tions of the Animals, Vegetables and Minerals of the different parts of the 

 World. By John Hill, M.D. Folio. London, 1751. From Mr. Walter 

 Cresson. 



Bulletin Mensuel de la Societe Imperiale Zoologique d'Acclimatation. Tome 

 7, No. 10, Octobre, 1860. From Dr. T. B. Wilson, on the usual condition. 



lltli. Introductory Discourse on Speculative and Inductive Medicine, de- 

 livered in the Medical Department of Pennsylvania College, Oct. 8, 1860, by 

 Henry Hartshorne, M.D. From the Author. 



The Quarterly Journal of the Chemical Society of London. Vol. 11, No. 4. 

 Vol. 12. Vol. 13, Nos. 1, 2 and 3. From the Society. 



American Medical Times, vol. 1, No. 23. From the Editor. 



The Gardener's Monthly, vol. 2, No. 12. From the Editor. 



On some questions concerning the Coal Formations of North America, by 

 Leo Lesquereu.x. 8vo. tract. From the Author. 



Natur-Andachten. Dichtungen aus dem Reiche der Natur und an ihre 

 Freunde von Joh. Gistel, &c. &c. 8vo. Straubing, 1857. Achthundert und 

 zwanzig neue oder unbeschreibene wirbellose Thiere, charakterisirt von Dr. 

 Johannes Gistel. 8vo. Straubing, 1857. Vacuna oder die Geheimnisse aus 

 dem organischen und leblosen Welt, von Prof. Dr. Johannes Gistel. Erster 

 Band. 8vo. Straubing, 1857. From Dr. Gistel. 



The Proceedings of the Zoological Society of London, with Illustrations. 

 Parts 1 and 2, Jan. to June, 1860. From the Society. 



United States Exploring Expedition during the years 1838 to 1842, under 

 Ihe command of Charles Wilkes, U.S.N. Herpetology, by Charles Girard. 

 With a folio Atlas. 1858. From Mrs. Lucy W. Say. 



The following are from Dr. Thos. B. Wilson, on the usual condition : 



Journal of the Franklin Institute, vol. 40, No. 6, 1860. 



Notice sur quelques races de Chevaux, sur les haras et les remontes dans 

 I'Empire d'Autriche, par M. Huzard fils. 12mo. tract. 1823. Paris. 




XXll. DONATIONS TO LIBRARY. 



Raupenkalender oder Verzeichnisaller Monate in welchen die von Rosel und 

 Kleemann beschreibene und abgebildete Raupen nebst ihrem Futter zu finden 

 sind. Von Johann Mader. Nurnberg, 1786. 12mo. 



Examen Analytique des oeufs de poule. Par B. G. Sage. 12mo. tract. Paris, 

 1823. 



Exposition methodique du Regne vegetal. Par J. F. Caffin. 12mo. Paris, 

 1823. 



Nomenclator entomologicus secundum Entomologiam Systematicamill. Fab- 

 rieii, &c., a Frederick Weber. 18mo. Chiionii et Hamburgi, 1795. 



Essai d'une Iconographie elementaire et philosophique des Vegetaux. Par 

 P. J. F. Tuipin. Paris, 1820. 12mo. 



Des avantages de I'esprit d'observation dans les sciences et les arts, avec 

 quelques remarques relatives a la Pbysionomie. Par X. A****. 12mo. Paris, 

 1809. 



Nomenclator Entomologicus enumerans Insecta omnia in J. C. Fabricii En- 

 tomologia Systematica emendata et aucta 1792. 12mo. Mancunii, 1795. 



Traite d education ou methode abregee pour elever les Serins ee Canarie, &c. 

 Par C***. Lyon, 1768. 12mo. 



Mocographie des Picides. Par Alfred Malherbe. Livr. 8. 



Systematisches Conchylien-Cabinet von Martini und Cbemnitz. Lief. 172. 



Saunders and Hewitson's Exotic Butterflies. Parts 35 and 36. 



Paleontologie Lombarde. Par A. Stoppani. Livr. 13. 



Journal of the Academy of Natural Sciences. Vol. 4, Part 4. From the 

 Publication Committee. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 9 



far as we desired. We therefore hesitated to publish the results of our 

 examination of the chemical nature of these poisons, but upon more 

 mature reflection have concluded to lay them before the scientific world, 

 trusting at some future period to be enabled to present a more complete 

 memoir on the subject, and to correct any errors into which we may have 

 fallen in the course of the researches just concluded.* 



May. 

 1. — Physiology. 



A paper was read, entitled, " Food of the Shad of the Atlantic Coast 

 of the United States, (^Alosa sapidissima,) and the functions of the 

 pyloric cceca. By E. R. Mordecai, M. D., of Mobile, Alabama. 



This paper, after calling to mind the anatomy of the alimentary canal of 

 the shad, lays particular stress upon the facts that the teeth are very 

 small, and of such an arrangement as to suggest its food to be easy 

 of prehension ; that the largest, longest, and also the greatest number of 

 the caeca open into the inferior wall of the expansion of the intestine 

 that is found beyond the pylorus. 



On examining the intestines of a number of shad, fresh run from the 

 sea, the caeca were always found to be distended by a brownish-looking 

 fluid substance, not differing to the naked eye from a fluid material of the 

 same color, filling the stomach. This fluid under the microscope, both 

 that from the stomach and from the caeca, was seen to be composed of 

 differently shaped and colored fragments of algae and the calcareous shields 

 of infusoria. 



The food of the shad would therefore appear to be marine algae, which 

 are broken down by the powerful muscular walls of the stomach, aided 

 by the broken shells of infusoria. The caeca are receptacles for food ; 

 enabling the animal to exist for a considerable time without receiving 

 additional nourishment. 



Arguments in favor of these views are drawn by Dr. JMordecai from 

 an analogous condition of things in other fish, that ascend fresh water 

 streams, or seek other places than those likely to supply them with food, 

 for the purpose of spawning. 



Specimens mounted for microscopical examination accompanied this 

 paper ; and the statements above made in regard to the contents of the 

 stomach and the caeca, were abundantly verified by members of the 

 Academy. 



*Some misconception appears to have been occasioned by the names under which we 

 hare studied these poisons. In our first essay they were distinguished as " corroval and 

 vao, two new varieties of woorara, the South American arrow poison." In consequence 

 of this title, it has been supposed that we regarded corroval and vao as identical with 

 the woorara of De-la-Condamine, KoUiker and others. No person, however, who went 

 beyond the tiile of the papers, could possibly entertain this idea, since the toxicological 

 distinction is drawn in the most definite manner. All the specimens of corroval and vao 

 which we have seen, have come to us labelled woorara, and we have been informed 

 that this term, or the more specific appellation, were indiscriminately used by the 

 Indians of the Rio Darien. 



I860.] 





Donations to Library. — 1860. 



January lOih, 1860. Kevue de Zoologie pure et appliquee, 1859. No. 11. 

 From the Editor. 



Funfter Jahresbericht des Germanischer National-Museums zu Niirnberg. 

 1859. 4to., from the Smithsonian Institution. 



Acta Societatis Scientiarum Indo-NeerlandicEe. Tols. 1 and 2. 1856,-57. 

 From the Society. 



Transactions of the Zoological Society of London. Vol. 4. Parts 5 and 6. 

 1858-59. Proceedings of the Zoological Society of London, 1857. Pages 192 

 to 308, 1858, and 1859, Parts 1 aad 2. From the Society. 



The Quarterly Journal of the Geological Society. Vol. 15, part 4th, No. 60. 

 1859. From the Society. 



The Canadian Naturalist and Geologist. Vol. 4, No. 6, Dec. 1859. From 

 the Nat. Hist. Society of Montreal. 



Boston Journal of Natural History. Vol. 7, No. 1. Proceedings of B. S. N. 

 H. Vol. 7, pages 129 to 160 incl. From the i3oston Society of Nat. History. 



American Journal of Pharmacy, 3d series. Vol. 8, No. 1. Jan. 1860. From 

 the Editor. 



Southern Medical and Surgical Journal. Vol. 15, No. 12. Dec. 1859. From 

 the Editor. 



The Dental Cosmos. Vol. 1st, Nos. 1 and 6. From the Editors. 



The American Journal of Science and Arts. Vol. 29, No. 85. Jan. 1860. 

 From the Editors. 



Lecture on Sable Island. By J. Bernard Gilpin. Wreck of the "Arno:" — 

 a poem. By Hon. Joseph Howe. From the Author. 8vo. tract. Halifax, 

 1859. 



Letter from Mr. Wallace, on the Geographical distribution of Birds. Svo. 

 tract. 1859. From the Editor of " The Ibis." 



On Fossil Plants from the Devonian Rocks of Canada. By J. W. Dawson. 

 Svo. tract. 1859. From the Author. 



Notices of Fossils from the Permian Strata of Texas and New Mexico, ob- 

 tained bj' the United States Expedition, under Capt. John Pope, for boring Ar- 

 tesian Wells along the 32nd parallel, &c. By B. F. Shumard, M. D. "Sto. 

 tract. 1859. From the Author. 



Catalogue of Publications of Societies, and of other periodical works in thf 

 Library of the Smithsonian Institution. Svo. 1859. From the Smithsonian 

 Institution. 



The Geology of Pennsylvania : a Government Survey. By Henry Darwia 

 Rogers, State Geologist. Vol. 2d. 4to. 1858. From the State of Pennsyl 

 vania. 



The Medical Examiner. 18 vols., from 1838 to 1856. From Dr. S. Weir 

 Mitchell. 



The following are from Dr. T. B. Wilson, on the usual condition : 



Palaeontographica. Beitrilge zur Naturgeschichte der Vorwelt Achter Band 

 Erste und Zweite Lieferung. Hermann Von Meyer. 4to. 1859. 



Catalogue of Orthopterous Insects in the Collection of the British Museum. 

 Part 1. PhasmidsE. By John Obadiah Westwood. 4to. London, 1859. 



llth. On Numerical Relations existing between the equivalent members of 

 elementary bodies. By M. Carey Lea. Svo. tract. Part 1. From the Author. 



Proceedings of the American Philosophical Society. Vol. 7, No. 62. July — 

 December, 1859. From the Society. 



Charleston Medical Journal and Review. Vol. 15. No. 1. January, 1860. 

 From the Editor. 



New Orleans Medical and Surgical Journal. Vol. 17, No. 1. January, 1860. 

 From the Editors. 



Catalogue of recent Marine Shells, found on the coasts of North and South 

 Carolina. 8vo. tract. Portland, 1860. By J. D. Kurtz. From the Author. 




U. DONTIONS TO LIBRARY. 



24,th. Proceedings of the American Antiquarian Society. Oct. 21st, 1859. 

 From the Society. 



St. Joseph's Journal of Medicine and Surgery. Vol. 2, No. 3. January, 1860. 

 From the Editors. 



Annual Report of the Directors of the Mint, for the fiscal year ending June 

 30th, 1859. From J. Ross Snowden. 



First Report of the Geological and Agricultural Survey of Texas. 8vo. tract. 

 1859. From B. F. Shumard, M. D. 



Catalogue of the Pennsylvania State Library. 8vo. 1859. From the State 

 Department. 



The following are from Dr. T. B. Wilson, on the usual condition; 



Journal of the Franklin Institute, 3rd series. Vol. 29, No. 1. Jan. 1860. 



Bijdragen tot de Dierkunde uitgegeven door het Koninklijk Zoologisch Ge- 

 nootschap Natura Artis Magistra. Amsterdam, 7th Aflevering, 1858. 



A Monograph of the Trochilidae, or Humming Birds. By John Gould, F. R. 

 S. Parts 17 and 18. 



The Mammals of Australia. By John Gould. Part 11. 



The Birds of Australia. By John Gould. Supplement, part 3. 



The Birds of Asia. By John Gould. Part 11. 



February 1th. Der Zoologische Garten, organ fiir die Zoologische Gesell- 

 schaft. Frankfurt Am Main, No. 1. Jahrg. 1. October, 1859. From the So- 

 ciety. 



Zeitschrift der Deutschen geologischen Gesellschaft. Band 10, Heft 4, — 

 Band 11, Heft 1. Berlin, 1858. 



Det Kongelige Danske Videnskabernes Selskabs Skrifter. Femte Raekke. — 

 Fjerde Binds, Andet Hefte, and Forste Hefte. 1859. Kjobenhavn. From the 

 Society. 



Berichte iiber die Verhandlungen der Naturforschenden Gesellschaft zu Frei- 

 burg. Band 2, Heft 1. 1859. From the Society. 



Verhandlungen der naturforschenden Gesellschaft in Basel Zweiter Theil 

 zweiter und Drittes Heft. 1859. From the Society. 



Oversigt over det kongelige danske Videnskabernes Selskabs Forhandlinger 

 og dets Medlemmers Arbeider 1 Aaret, 1858. From the Society. 



Bulletin de La Societe Imperiale des Naturalistes de Moscou. An. 1858. Nos. 

 2, 3, and 4, and An. 1859, No. 1. From the Society. 



Annales des Mines, Cinquieme Serie, Tome 15, 1st and 2nd, Livraison de 

 1859. From the Minister of Public Works," France. 



Revue et Magasin de Zoologie pure et appliquee. No. 12, 1859. From the 

 Editor. 



Lijst der Schelpdieren die tot ruil voorhandenzijn bij s' Rijks Museum van 

 Naturlijke Geschiedens te Leiden, 1856, (manuscript). Coup-d'Oeil sur les 

 MoUasques de La Famille des Cyclades, observes jusqu'a ce jour dans le De- 

 partment du Nord, par N. A. J. Normand. 8vo. tract, Valenciennes, 1854. No- 

 tice sur plusieres nouvelles especes de Cyclades decouvertes dans les environs 

 de Valenciennes, par N. A. J. Normand. 8vo. tract, Valenciennes, 1844. Cata- 

 logue des Mollusques du Department de L'Oise, par Aug. Bandon, M. D. Svo. 

 tract, Beauvais, 1855. From Temple Prime. 



The New York Medical Press. Vol. 2, No. 26, Decem. 24th, 1859. From 

 the Editors. 



The Journal of the Society of Arts, and of Institutions in Union. VoL 7, 

 Nos. 359 to 362 inch, 1859. From the Society. 



St. Joseph Journal of Medicine and Surgery. Vol. 2. No. 3, Jan., 1860. From 

 the Editors. 



The Canadian Journal of Industry, Science and Arts. New series, No. 25, 

 Jan., 1860. From the Institute. 



Report on Weights and Measures, read before the Pharmaceutical Associa- 

 tion at their Eighth Annual Session, by Alfred B. Taylor. 8vo., Boston, 1859. 

 From the Author. 



Annual of Scientific Discovery : or Year-Book of Facts in Science and Art, 




DONATIONS TO LIBRARY. lU. 



for 1860. Edited by David A. Wells, A. M. 8vo., Boston, 1860. From the 

 Editor. 



Descriptions of New Species of Fossils from the Palaeozoic Rocks of the 

 Western States. By J. H. McChesney. 4to., Chicago, 1859. From the Au- 

 thor, 



An Essay on the Tides : Theory of the two forces. By Alexander Wilcocks, 

 M. D. 12mo., Philadelphia, 1855. From the Author. 



lith. The Dental Cosmos. Vol. 1, No. 7, 1860. From the Editors. 



Southern Medical and Surgical Journal. Vol. 16, No. 1, Jan., 1860. From 

 the Editors. 



Additions et Ptectifications aux plan et prodrome de L'Iconographie descrip- 

 tive des Ophidiens, par M. Jan. 8vo. tract. From the Author. 



Proceedings of the Boston Society of Nat. History. Vol. 7, pages 161 to 192 

 incl. From the Society. 



Twenty-fifth Annual Report of the Young Men's Mercantile Library Associa- 

 tion of Cincinnati, for the year 1859. From the Association. 



Constitution, By-Laws, and list of Officers and Members of the Chicago 

 Academy of Sciences. From the Academy. 



Memoirs of the Historical Society of Pennsylvania. Vol. 7. 8vo., Philada., 

 1860. From the Society. 



The following are from Dr. T. B. Wilson on the usual conditions : 



Journal of the Franklin Institute. Vol. 39, No. 2, Feb., 1860. 



Histoire Naturelle des Coleopteres de France, par M. C. Mulsant Angusti- 

 pennes. Paris, 1858. 



Flora Indiae Batavse, vol. 1, pars 2. Fasc. 3, and vol. 2, Fasc. 7, par M. Miguel. 



Planches Coloriees des Oiseaux de La Belgique et leurs (Eufs, par Ch. T. 

 Dubois, 126 and 127, Livraisons. 



Systematisches Conchylien-Cabinet, von Martini und Chemnitz. Dritter Band. 

 Heft. 23. 



Tresor de Livres rares et precieux ou Noveau Dictionnaire Bibliographique, 

 par J. G. F. Graesse, Tome 2, Livr. 1. 



Bryologia Javanica, Fasc. 18 and 19. 



Zoologischer Hand-Atlas, von Dr. Hermann Burmeister, Lief. 3. 



Die Conchylien des Mainzer Tertiarbeckens, von Prof. Dr. Fridolin Sandber- 

 ger. Lief. 3d. 



Publications of the Palaeontographical Society, for 1857. Conchologia Ico- 

 nica, by Lovell Reeve. Parts 188 and 189. 



Hewitson's Exotic Butterflies. Part 33, Jan. 2d, 1860. 



21s^ Book of the Twelfth Annual Exhibition of the Maryland Institute. 

 From the Institute. 



Catalogue of the Officers and Students of the State University of Michigan, 

 for ] 860. From the University. 



Contributions to the Palasontology of New York, — being some of the results 

 of investigations made during the years 1855, '56, '57, '58. By James Hall. From 

 the Author. 



Iowa Geological Survey, — supplement to vol. 1, part 2d, 1859. By James 

 Hall. New species of Fossils from the Niagara Group of Wisconsin. By James 

 Hall. From the Author. • 



Memoirs of the Geological Survey of India. Vol. 2, part 1. From the Geo- 

 logical Museum, Calcutta. 



Personal Narrative of Explorations and Incidents in Texas, New Mexico, 

 California, Sonora, and Chihuahua, connected with the United States and Mexi- 

 can Boundary Commission, in the years 1850, '51, '52, and '53. By John Rus- 

 sell Bartlett, U. S. Commissioner. Vol. 2, 8vo. From B. F. Shumard, in ex- 

 change. 



Proceedings of the Royal Irish Academy. Vol. 7, parts 1 to 8, inclusive, 

 1858 and 1859. Transactions of the Royal Irish Academy. Vol.23, part 2. 

 From the Academy. 




iv. DONATIONS TO LIBRARY. 



March 6ih. Southern Medical and Surgical Journal. Vol. 16, No. 2, Feb- 

 ruary, 1860. From the Editors. 



Revue et Magasin de Zoologie pure et appliquee. 1860, No. 1. From the 

 Editors. 



The American Journal of Science and Arts. Vol. 29, No. 86, March, 1860. 

 From the Editors. 



American Journal of Pharmacy. 3d series, vol. 8, No. 2, March, 1860. From 

 the Editor. 



The Dental Cosmos. Vol. 1, No. 8, March, 1860. From the Editors. 



Memoir on the salubrity of the Isle of Pines. By Dr. Don Jose de La Luz 

 Hernandez. 8vo. tract, Habana. 1857. From the Author. 



United States and Mexican Boundary Survey, Cactaceae of the Boundary. By 

 George Eugelmann, M. D., St. Louis. From the Author. 



What may be learned from a Tree, By Harlan Coultas. 8vo., Philada.. 

 1859. From the Author. 



An Arctic Boat Journey in the Autumn of 1854. By Isaac I. Hayes, Sur- 

 geon of the second Grinnell Expedition. Bvo., Boston, 1860. From the Au- 

 thor. 



Der Organisraus der Infusionsthiere, von Dr. Friedrich Stein, 1st Abtheilung, 

 Leipzig, 1859, 4to. The Conchological Miscellany of Sylvanus Hanley. 4to., 

 London, 1853. Illustrations of the recent Conchology of Great Britain and 

 Ireland. 4to., London, 1844. From Mrs. Lucy W. Say. 



I3tk. Saggio di Ditterologia Messicana di Luigi Bellardi Professore di Storia 

 Naturale. 4to. parte 1, Torino, 1859. From the Author. 



Annales de La Societe Entomologique de France Troisieme serie. Tomes 2d 

 to 6th. From the Society. 



Southern Medical and Surgical Journal. Vol. 16, No. 3, March, 1860. From 

 the Editors. 



The New York Journal of Medicine. No. 101, March, 1860. From the Editors. 



Charleston Medical Journal and Review. Vol. 15, No. 2, March, 1860. From 

 the Editor. 



North American Medico-Chirurgical Review. Vol. 4, No. 2, March, 1860. 

 From the Editors. 



The Canadian Naturalist and Geologist. Vol. 5, No. 1, February, 1860. 

 From the Nat. Hist. Society of Montreal. 



Journal of the Franklin Institute. 3d series, vol. 39, No. 3, March, 1860. 

 From Dr. T. B. Wilson, on the usual conditions. 



Journal of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. New series, 

 vol. 4, part 3. From the Publication Committee. 



Ceylon. An account of the Island, Physical, Historical, and Topographical, 

 ifcc. By Sir James Emerson Tennent, K. C. S., LL. D., &c. 2 vols. Svo., Lon- 

 don, 1860. From Thomas Dunlap, Esq. 



Observations on the Genus Unio, etc. By Isaac Lea, LL. D., &c. Vol. 7:h, 

 4to., 1860. From the Author. 



20th. Proceedings of the Boston Society of Nat. History. Vol. 7th, 13th 

 and 14th signatures, Feb. and March, 1860. From the Society. 



Annals of the Lyceum of Natural History of New York. Vol. 7, Nos. 1 to 3. 

 Dec, 1858, — March, 1859. From the Lyceum. 



Canadian Journal of Industry. Science and Art. New series. No. 26, March. 

 1860. From the Institute. 



Annual Address on the events of the year, before the Philadelphia County 

 Medical Society. By Benjamin H. Coates. Svo. tract, Philada., 1860. From 

 the Author. 



Commerce and the Holy Land. — A Lecture delivered by Wm. F. Lynch. 

 U. S. N. 8vo. tract, Philada., 1860. From the Author. 



Essai sur la distribution Geographique, Orthographique et Statisque, des Mol- 

 lusques terrestres et fluviatiles vivants de ce departement. Par M. le Dr. de 

 Grateloup. 8vo., Bordeaux, 1860. From the Author. 



Voyage de Humboldt et Bonpland. Deuxieme partie. Observations de Zoolo- 




DONATIONS TO LIBRARY. v. 



gie et d"Analomie Comparee. 2 vols., 4to., Paris, 1811 and 1833. From Mrs. 

 Lucy W. Say. 



The following are from Dr. T, B. Wilson, on the usual condition : 



Sjstematisches Conchylien-Cabinet, von Martini und Chemnitz, ITOth Liefe- 

 rung. 



Planches coloriees des Oiseaux de la Belgique et de leurs (Eufs, par Ch. F. 

 Dubois, 128 Livraison. 



Conchologia Iconica. By Lovell Reeve. Parts 190, 191 and 192. 



Zur Kenntniss der electrischen Organe der Fische von Max. Schultze, Zweite 

 Abtheilung. Halle 1859, 4to. 



Flora Tertiaria Helvetise, Die tertitire Flora der Schweiz, von Dr. Oswald 

 Heer, 7 and 8 Lieferung. 



Monographic des Picides, par Alfred Malherbe, 2d Livraison, 1859, folio. 



April 3d. Revue et Magasin de Zoologie pure et appliquee, par M. F. E. 

 Guerin-Meneville, No. 2, 1860. From the Editor. 



On the Geographical Distribution of Gold, with special reference to some 

 Auriferous Rocks in South America. By P. Misser, Esq. 8vo. tract, Mel- 

 bourne, 1859. From the Author. 



Papers read, and Remarks made, before the Academy of Nat. Sci., in 1859. 

 By Isaac Lea, LL. D. 8vo. tract, Philadelphia, 1860. From the Author. 



Personalier oplaeste ved Hans Majestaet Kong Oscar den 1st Begravelse i 

 Kidderholmskirken, ben 8de August, 1859. 8vo. tract. — Tale ved det Norske 

 Universitets Mindefest for Kong Oscar, den 22de September, 1859. Af. J. S. 

 Welhaven, Professor. 8vo. Cliristiania. — Beretning om en Zoologisk Reise 

 foretagen i Sommeren, 1857, ved D. C. Danielssen. Christiania, 8vo. tract, 

 1859. — Udtog af Norges Riges Histoire af Andreas Fay, Christiania, 1834. 

 Das Christiania-Siburbecken, Chemisch-Geognostisch Untersucht, Von Theo- 

 dor Kjerulf, 4to. tract, Christiania, 1855. — Uber die Geometrische Repriisen- 

 tation der Gleichungen zwischen zwei veranderlichen, reelen oder komplexen 

 Grossen, von C. A. Bjerkness. 4to. tract. — Bemserkninger angaaende Grap- 

 tolitherne, af Christian, Bosck. 4to. tract, Christiania, 1851. — Observations 

 sur les Phenomenes d'Erosion en Norvege. Par J. C. Horbye. 4to. tract, 

 1857. Quelques Observations de Morphologic Vcgetale faites au jardin bo- 

 tanique de Christiania, par .J. M. Norman. 4to. tract, 1857. Physikalske 

 Meddelelser, ved Adam Arndsten. 4to. tract, Christiania, 1858. Norges 

 Statistik fremstillet, ved M. Braun Goethe. 8vo. Christiania, 1848. — For- 

 handlinger ved de Skandinaviske Naturforskeres, Sy vends Mode. Christiania, 

 Svo. 1856. From the Royal Norway University, of Christiana. 



Walpers, Annales Botanices Systematices Tome Quinti Fascic. 4. From 

 the Author. 



A Monograph of the Fresh Water Polyzoa. By George James AUman, M. 

 D., &c. 4to., for the Royal Society, London, 1856. From Mrs. Lucv W. 

 Say, 



The Dental Cosmos. New Series, vol. 1, No. 9, April, 1860. From the 

 Editors. 



Bericht iiber die erste allgemeine Versamnlung von Berg- und Hiitten miin- 

 nern zu Wien (10 bis 15, Mai, 1858). 8vo. Wein, 1859, 1st Abtheilung. From 

 the Association, 



The following are from Dr. T. B. Wilson on tlie usual conditions : 



Untersuchungen Uber die hiezkraft der Steinkohlen Sachsens unter aus- 

 ficht, von Johann Bernhard Schneider. 4to. Leipzig, 1860. 



Paleontologie Lombarde ou description des fossiles de Lombardie. Par 

 L'Abbe Antoine Stoppardi. 9, 10, and 11, Livraisons. 



10th. Untersuchungea iiber die Lichtstiirke der Planeten Venus, Mars, .Ju- 

 piter und Saturn verglichen mit Sternen, und iiber die relative weisse ihren 

 Oberfichen. Von Ludwig Seidel. 4to. Miinchen, 1859. From the Author. 



Magnetische Untersuchungen in Nord-Deutschland, Belgien, Holland, Diine- 

 mark, von Dr. J. Lamont. 4to. Mdnchen, 1859. From the Author. 



Erinnerung an Mitgleider der Mathematisch-Physikalischen Classe der K. 




VI. -DONATIONS TO LIBRARY. 



Bayr. Akad. der Wissenschaften. Eine Rede vorgetragen in der offentlichen 

 Sitzung ziir Feier des akademiselien Saeciilarfestes am 24 Mars. isr>9. von Dr. 

 Carl Freidrich Philipp von Martins. 4to. Miinciien, 1S59. From the Anthor. 



Alnianach der konig-baverischeu Akademie der Wissenschaften fiir das 

 Jahr. 1859. — Monatliche nnd jahrliche Resnltate der an der konig. Stem- 

 Tvarte bei Miinchen, von 1S25, bis lS5ti, angestellten Meteorologisehen Beo- 

 bachtungen. 3d Supplementband Muncben, lS-39. — Gelebrte Anzeigen Banden 

 47 und 4S. — Abbandlungender Mathemat. — Physikalischen Classe der Konig. 

 baverisehen Akademie der Wissenscbaften, S Band Zweite Abtbeilnng Miin- 

 chen, 1S5S. From the Royal Bavarian Academy of Sciences. 



Untersnchungen viber die richtung und stiirke des Erdmagnetismus an ver- 

 scheidenen punetendes siidwestlicbenEuropa im allerhochsten axiftraee seiner 

 Majestat des Konigs Maximilian II, von Bavern, Ansgefiihrt von Dr. J. La- 

 ment. 4to. Miinchen, 1S5S. From the Roval Observatory. 



Oesterreichische Zeitsclirift fiir practische Heilkunde-von-der Medinischen 

 Facultiit in Wien. Vol. 5, and >'©. 1, Vol. i!. From the Editors. 



Jahrbuch der Kaiserlieh-Koniglichen Geologischen Reicbsanstalt, 10th Jahr- 

 gang, 1859, No. 2, April, May and June, Wien, 1S59. From the Geological 

 Institute. 



Ansprache gehalten am Schlusse des ersten Decenniums der Kaiserlieh-Ko- 

 niglichen Geologischen Reicbsanstalt in Wien am 22 November, 1S59, von 

 wUhelm Haidiuger. Svo. Wien, 1859. From the Author. 



Uber die Wohnsitze der Brachiopodeu, von Prof. Edward Suess. Svo. 

 tract, Vienna, 1S59. From the Author. 



Die Fossilen MoUusken des Terti.'er-Beckens, von Wien von Dr. Morris 

 Homes, 2d Band. 4to. Wien. From the Author. 



Preisschriften gekront und herausgegeben von der furstlich Jablonowski- 

 schen Gesellschaft zu Leipzig. Svo. Leipzig, 1S59. From the Society. 



Entomologisehe Zeitung, Herausgegeben von den entomologischen Vereins 

 zu Stettin, Zwanzigster .Jahrgang. From the Society. 



Archiv desVereius der freundeder Naturgeschichte in Meklenbnrg, 13 Jahr. 

 1859. From the Society. 



Zeitschrifi der Deutschen geologischen Gesellschaft, 11 Band, 2 Heft, Berlin, 

 1859. From the Society. 



Archiv far Naturgeschichte, vou Dr. F. H. Troschel, 25 Jahrgang 3 and 4 

 Heft, 185 9. From the Editor. 



Wurttembersiische Naturvrissenschaftliche Jahreshefte Sechsehnter Jahr- 

 gang. Erstes Heft. Stuttgart, 1S60. From the Society. 



Correspondeiizblatt des Naturforschenden Vereins zu Riga Zehnter Jahr- 

 gang. From the Society. 



Neues Jahrbuch fiir Mineralogie, Geognosie, Geologie und Petref:ikten- 

 Kunde-von K. C. vou Leonhard und H. G. Bronn Jahr. 1859, Hefies 5. 6, und 

 7. From the Editors. 



Mittheilungen aus dem Osterlande vierzehnter Biind, drittes und viertes 

 Heft. 1859, Altenberg. From the Society. 



Abhandlungeu der kuniglichen bomischen Gesellschaft der Wissenschaften 

 Fiinfter Folge^ Zehuter Band von dem Jahren, 1857 — 1859. Prag, 1859. 

 From the Society. 



Sitzunssberichte der konigl, bohmischen Gesellschaft der Wissenschaften 

 in Pras::, 1859, Jan. to Juni. From the Society. 



Svstematisches Verzeichniss der bohmischen Trilobiten. Sammlnng des 

 Herrn Landesprilateu, Dr. H. J. Ziedler, iu Prag, von Dr. Wilh Rud. Weiten- 

 ■sreber. 8vo. tract, Prag. 1857. From the Author. 



I'lth. Actes de L'Academie Imperiale des Sciences. Belles-Lettres et Art,* 

 de Bordeaux. 21st An. 1859, 2d Trimes. From the Academy. 



Bulletin de La Societe Linneenue de Normande, vol. 4, An. 1858-59. From 

 the Society. 



Memoires de La Societe Acadcmique de Maine et Loire, 5th ami uth vols., 

 1859. From the Society. 




DONATIONS TO LIBRARY. VH. 



Proceedings of the Zoological Society of Loudon, with illustrations. 1857, 

 1858, and parts 1 and 2 for 1859. From the Societj-. 



Dental Anomalies, and their influence upon the production of Diseases of 

 the Intermaxillary Bones. By Am. Forget, M. D. From the French. Phila- 

 delphia, 1859, 8vo. pamphlet. From Jones & White. 



Memoir of the late Thomas Nuttall. By Elias Durand. Philada., 1860, 

 3vo. tract. From the Author. 



Proceedings of the Royal Society of Loudon. "Vol. 10th, No. 37. From the 

 Society. 



The Quarterly Journal of the Geological Society. No. 60,* Vol. 15, part 5, 

 .md No. 61, Vol. 16, part 1. From the Society. 



Twenty-fourth Annual Report of the Executive Committee of the Young 

 Men's Association of the City of Buffalo. 8vo. tract, Buffalo, 1860. From the 

 Association. 



The New York Journal of Medicine. No. 100, January, 1860. From the 

 Editors. 



Report of the Secretary of War, accompanying the President's Message at 

 the First Session of the 35th Congress. From Major Wayne, U. S. A. 



A Practical Treatise on the Honey Bee and Hive. By L. L. Langstroth. 

 3d Edition, 8vo. New York, 1860. From the Author. 



Charleston Medical Journal and Review. 14 vols. From S. Weir Mitchell, M. D. 



Journal of the Franklin Institute. 3d series, vol. 39, No. 4, April, 1860. 

 From Dr. T. B. Wilson, on the usual condition. 



May 1st. The Canadian Naturalist and Geologist. Vol. 5, No. 2. April, 

 1860. From the Montreal Nat. Hist. Society. 



On the Silurian and Devonian Rocks of Nova Scotia. By J. W. Dawson. 

 3vo. tract. On the Vegetable Structures in Coal. By J. W. Dawson. 8vo. 

 tract. From the Author. 



Notes on the Aurora of the 28th August, 1859, as observed at Lunenburg, 

 Mass. By Prof. Wm. B. Rogers. 8vo. tract. From the Author. 



Annals of Science, &c. Cleveland, Ohio, Nos. 23 and 24, Nov. 1st and 15th, 

 1853. From Horatio C. Wood, Jr. 



Volume of tracts and pamphlets on Agricultural Chemistry and allied sub- 

 jects. By J. B. Lowes and J. H. Gilbert. From the Author, through Dr. Evau 

 Pugh. 



Revue et Magasin de Zoologie pure et Appliquee, No. 3, 1860. From the 

 Editor, M. Guerin-Meneville. 



Proceedings of the General Meeting of the Medical Profession, in relation to 

 the deaths of Dr. Charles Frick, and Dr. Berwick B. Smith. 8vo. tract. From 

 Lewis H. Steiner, M. D. 



Southern Medical and Surgical Journal. Vol. 16, No. 4, April, 1860. From 

 the Editors. 



Proceedings of the American Association for the Advancement of Science. 

 Thirteenth Meeting, held at Springfield, Mass., Aug., 1859. From the Asso- 

 ciation. 



Catalogue and Alphabetical Index of the Astor Library. In two parts. Part 

 2d, Authors and Books, M. to P. New York, 1859, 8vo. From the Trustees 

 of the Astor Library. 



The following are from Dr. T. B. Wilson, on the usual condition : 



Miquel Flora Indise Batavje. Vol. 1, part 2, Fasc. 4, and Vol. 3, Fasc. 4. 



Lemons sur La Physiologie et L'Anatomie Comparee de L'Homme et des 

 Animaux. Par H. Milne Edwards. Tome 5, Partie 2d. Paris, 1859, 8vo. 



Bryologia Javauica. Fasciculus 20. 



Conchologia Iconica. By Lovell Reeve. Part 193. 



Planches Coloriees des Oiseaux de Le Belgique et de leurs (Eufs, par Ch. F. 

 Dubois. 129 and 130, Livraison. 



Darstellung und Beschreibung siimmtlicher in der Pharmacopoeia Borussica 

 aufgefiihrten Officinellen Gewachse, von Dr. 0. C. Berg und C. F. Schmidt. 

 Zweiter Band, 4to. Leipzig, 1859. 



Monographie des Picides. Par Alfred Malherbe, 3d Livraison. 




VIU. DONATIONS TO LIBRARY. 



8th. Additions to the Flora of Wisconsin. By T. J. Hall. 8vo. tract, 

 1560. From the Author. 



The San Francisco Medical Press. Vol. 1, No. 2, 1860. From the Editor. 



The Dental Cosmos. Vol. 1st, No. 10, May, 1860. From the Editors. 



American Journal of Pharmacy. 3d series, No. 3, vol. 8, May, 1860. From 

 the Editor. 



The American Journal of Science and Arts. Vol. 29th, 2d series, No. 87, 

 May, 1860. From the Editors. 



The North American Medico-Chirurgical Review. Vol. 4th, No. 3, May, 

 1860. From the Editors. 



Edinburgh New Philosophical Journal. Vol. 11th, No. 2, April, 1860. From 

 the Editors. 



The Natural History Review. Vol. 3, No. 12, Oct., 1856 ; Vol. 6, Nos. 1 to 

 4, inch, 1859. Proceedings of the Dublin University Zoological and Botani- 

 cal Association. Vol. 1, 1859. From the Dublin University Zoological and 

 Botanical Association. 



Journal of the Geological Society of Dublin. Vol. 8, part 2, 1859. From 

 the Society. 



Annual Report of the Superintendent of the Geological Survey of India, 

 Calcutta, 1858-59. Memoirs of the Geological Survey of India. Vol. 1, part 

 3. Calcutta, 1859. From the Governor and Council of India. 



The following are from Dr. T. B. Wilson, on the usual condition : 



Bulletin mensu^l de La Societe Imperiale Zoologique d'Acclimatation. Tome 

 6, Nos. 1 to 8, and 10 to 12, 1859, Tome 7th, Nos. 2 and 3, 1860. 



Conchologia Iconica, by Lovell Reeve. Part 194. 



Tresor de Livres Rares et Precieux ou Noveau Dictionnaire Bibliographique, 

 par John George Theodore Gaesse. Tome 2d, Livraison 2, 1860. 



Neue Untersuchungen uber den Bau des Rlickenmarks, von Dr. B. Stilling, 

 Funfte Lieferung. — Atlas Mikroskopisch Anatomischer Abbildungen zu den 

 neuen Untersuchungen liber den Bau des Rlickenmarks, von Dr. B. Stilling, 

 Vierte Lieferung Cassel, 1859. 



15th. Eighth Supplement to Dana's Mineralogy. By Geo. J. Brush. 8vo. 

 tract, 1860. From the Author. 



Natuurkundig Tijdschrift voor Nederlandisch Indie uitgeven door de Natu- 

 urkundige Vereniging in Nederlandsch Indie Derde serie Deel 3, Aflevering, 5 

 and 6. From the Society. 



The California Farmer. Seven numbers, from Feb. 22d, 1860, to April 20th, 

 1860. From the Editors. 



Southern Medical and Surgical Journal. Vol. 16, No. 5, May, 1860. From 

 the Editors. 



The New York Journal of Medicine. No. 102, May, 1860. From the Edi- 

 tors. 



The New Orleans Medical and Surgical Journal. Vol. 17th, No. 3, May, 

 1860. From the Editors. 



Journal of the Franklin Institute. 3d series, vol. 39, May, 1860, No. 5. 

 From Dr. T. B. Wilson on the usual condition. 



Karte des San Juan-od-Haro-Archipels. Nach den Aufnahmen der Engl. 

 AdmiralitiU unter Kellett, Richards, &c., 1847, 1858, and 1859. Von. A. 

 Peterman. From Dr Peterman. 



The American Journal of the Medical Sciences. Nos. 67 and 68, new series, 

 Jan. and April, 1860. From the Editors. 



Biographical Notice of Henry Bond, M. D., read before the College of Physi- 

 cians of Philadelphia, April 1st, 1860. From the Author, Dr. Condie. 



22nd. Sitzungs Berichte der Kaiserlichen Akademie der Wissenschaften, 

 Mathemat.— Naturwissen. Classe, 1858, Band 33, Nos. 27-29, 1858, Band 34, 

 35, 36, and 37. Nos. 1 to 20. Register zu den Biinden 21, bis 30, der Sitzungs- 

 berichte der Mathemat. Naturwissen. Classe der K.Acad, der Wissenschaften, 

 3d part. Almanach der Kaiserlichen Akademie der Wissenschaften, Neunter 




PRQC.ACAO.NAT SCI 



WM.Gatt del 





PROC,ACAD_NAT SCI. 



\ 



a 4 



im 





-Sii 



^*5*s*fe 



\ 12 



15 



W, M-trdll del. 



PI 3- 





Proc Acai.lktSa PM^ 



PI. 4 



/ Asolaiiiis Cti/Hpio/oifiKi. H'l'ad. 



Z. A MaTiffj/i/urr/iy lt,>o<i. 



3 Solcnouia FsilopMoc^is^ Hhud . 



4' L'pidostrohns SlacfiYoidfS, 

 ,1 Sniiflarta. Soletiohis, Wood . 

 (> A<!idnn:iAS Orrul/ncnmdes hood 



Sinclair's liJh,Fhil* 

 Wood. 





Proc . Aca.d . Na± Sci . Fiul^ 



PI 5. 



'^\ 



^- 



ff- 



3. 



It: ,* 



I-. 



^e y\ 



f .^..^^ 



M'^M% 



t ■■I ■ 



% 



t 







'^ l^v.i|: ^^ ^ ^ 



T aindairs ilK, PM» 



/ Lepidodendi-on Oweni Wood 3 l Mefcistvu . Wood 



Z. L Venustitni Hood. + L Lesqueri-uii. Hood 



J. leptdophlo'os IcthyoUpis, Hood 





Pro c Acad . ITal S a . ?lm = 



PI- 6, 



I 



■'*m^^^^ 



%.l 



^ 3. 



?^2® 



T Sindair's Ijth .7M} 

 I LcpuJo<icn,(i\nt Dil-r-orhcilos. f1,u>,/ :' / Dn-paJiaSfri.^ Woo<7 



3 L RoT'dae. Wood P [ MatfHu/ii Uboil 





Ptoc . AN. S . Plnlada.- 1860 . 



Plate 7. 



mH^ 



ASTROSCOPUS GTJTTATTIS (ABBOTT.) 



KoeWex dfil 



Lith BcmBn&.Co PUi 





Proc.A.N:S. Fhi/nda. IStiO 



1. N^frrii/rrtii.i xinpfTt'ecfzis 



,3 Euryo/itera 'aiiffiniucAjtUij' 

 7 AfpilojK 



4. Arlwpulu^ WHsoiia 

 ititiilironis 





PROCEEDINGS 



OF THE 



BIOLOGICAL DEPARTMENT 



OF THE 



ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES 



OF PHILADELPHIA. 



1860. 

 Reported by Walter F. Atlee, Eecorder. 



Dr. Joseph Leidy, Director. 



January. 

 I. — Pathology. 



Dr. J. J. Woodward read a paper entitled, " RemarJcs on Errors in the 

 Anatomical Diagnosis of Cancer."* 



II. — Chkmistry and Toxicology. 



1. Dr. Mitchell stated that lately in examining, in conjunction with 

 Dr. Hammond, the chemistiy of corroval and vao, they had succeeded in 

 obtaining, in a crystalline form, corrovaline. It is formed by evaporation, 

 from the solution iu chloroform ; one grain of corrovaline thus prepared 

 was dissolved in one hundred grains of water, and one drop from the 

 solution was sufficient to kill a mouse. The same quantity, in ten minutes, 

 killed a frog. 



2. Mr. Powel stated that when very young, in the laboratory of his 

 uncle. Dr. Robert Hare, he had witnessed some very extraordinary 

 poisonous qualities exhibited by the residue of the sweet oil of wine, dis- 

 tilled with some turpentine. The smell of this was sufficient to produce 

 dizziness and lethargic symptoms. 



*See American Journal of the Medical Sciences, for April, 1860. 

 1 




2 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Bioiog' 



February. 



I. — Anatomy. 



Dr. Schmidt read the following paper upon a '-Method of Painting 

 moist Anatomical Preparations.'" 



Method of Fainting Moist Anatomical Preparations, 

 BY H. D. SCHMIDT, M. D. 



it is more due to neglect than any other motive, that I have not pub- 

 lished, before this, the useful process of painting anatomical preparations, 

 intended to be suspended in alcohol. The latter, as is known to every 

 anatomist, affects the color of the different components of an organ, and 

 thus renders them almost alike in appearance. This i.s a great disadvan- 

 tage, as the object of such a preparation, is to show the relationship of 

 the various parts of an organ, or that of different organs themselves. 

 For instance, if the larger bloodvessels and ducts of a liver or kidney, &c., 

 are injected and carefully dissected out, to exhibit their relative course, 

 such a preparation will be of comparatively little value, if these vessels 

 can not be readily distinguished from each other. This can only be ac- 

 complished by painting them with different colors. In dried preparations, 

 this is easily done by coloring with oil-paint, commonly used by artists. 

 But as the tissues of such preparations lose entirely their form by shrink- 

 ing, they are rendered to a great extent unfit for study. It is different 

 however, in the case of preparations intended to be preserved in a moist 

 condition by suspension in alcohol. Here, the anatomist often becomes 

 discouraged, when he finds his best dissections losing in appearance 

 by the injurious action of the alcohol on the color of the tissues. To 

 counterbalance this disadvantage. I have used a vehicle, which, while it 

 unites with the tissues and thus adheres to them, is not affected injurious- 

 ly by the action of the alcohol, but on the contrary, rendered only more 

 lirm. The process is so simple, that it seems rather strange not to have 

 been resorted to long ago. The principle used as a vehicle, isalbumen, in 

 the form of the white of egg ; and this is almost the only substance which 

 will unite with the tissues, (as a great part of the latter consists of it,) 

 without being injuriously affected by the alcohol. The colors used, of 

 course must be mineral, and thoroughly ground with the albumen, on a 

 plate of glass. After the preparation is painted, it is put into strong 

 alcohol, which, to coagulate the albumen still more firmly, may be warmed. 

 Not only the blood-vessels, ducts and nerves, may thus be beautifully 

 colored, but with some artistical skill the color of the parenchyma of the 

 organ may also be nicely imitated. 



In the Anatomical Museum of the University of Pennsylvania, a liver 

 with the blood-vessels and ducts carefully dissected, and painted with 

 different colors by the above described process, can be seen suspended in 

 alcohol. Likewise a kidney and a spleen ; the color of the fresh 

 parenchyma of the former is also imitated. These preparations I made 

 three years ago, and up to the present time not the slightest change in 

 the colors can be perceived ; although they have often been carried to 

 and from the lecture room. Another preparation, exhibiting the smaller 

 muscles of the larynx, which are painted red, can also be seen. Intricate 

 dissections of various regions can be made, the muscles, vessels, nerves, 

 Sec, colored, and their form preserved by the suspension in alcohol. 



[Feb. 




Dept.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 3 



In connection with this subject, Dr. Leidy stated that he is in the habii 

 of suspending injected preparations in turpentine, by which liquid the 

 tissues are rendered translucent. The jars in which they are thus sus- 

 pended, are hermetically sealed by means of a piece of hog's bladder, well 

 soaked and dipped in a cement of gum arable, acetic acid and sugar In 

 order to suspend the preparation, a piece of whalebone or a bar of metal 

 should be used ; wood is too porous. Thus ai-ranged the turpentine 

 remains perfectly limpid. 



Dr. Leidy added, that in these preparations, some change must tak*- 

 place in the air over the turpentine, for the bladder covering the jar 

 bellies down, becoming concave. To give therefoi'e a neater appearance 

 to the preparation, he is in the habit of applying a second piece of blad- 

 der, prepared as the other; in which a small orifice is made with a pin. 

 which prevents its retraction into the neck of the jar. 



iVIr. Slack stated that in England, glycerin was extensively used for 

 mounting preparations, the high price of alcohol in that country prevent- 

 ing its general use for such a purpose. 



II. — Pathology, 



Dr. Leidy exhibited a portion of the stomach of a horse recently dead, 

 which contained a number of spheroidal tumors, about an inch in diame- 

 ter, The tumors contained a number of nematoid worms {Spiroptera me- 

 gastoma) still alive. 



Dr. Darrach, who had examined the structure of these tumors, bad 

 found their walls to be principally fibrous tissue, containing a puruloid 

 matter filled with fine granules, which were the eggs of the worm. These 

 tumors possessed orifices communicating with the stomach. 



This horse was said to have died from rupture of the diaphragm 

 caused by great distension of the intestines, in consequence of a large- 

 meal of Indian Corn. This rupture was situated in the muscular portion 

 of the diaphragm, and was about six inches in length. 



III. — ^Teratology. 



Dr. Morris related a case of arrest of development in the hand of a 

 young man with whom he is acquainted. This arrest is in two of his 

 fingers. This condition of things is attributed by Dr. Morris to the 

 action of filaments thrown around the fingers, and checking their growth, 

 probably about the third or fourth month of intrauterine life. These 

 filaments or ligatures were assigned first by Dr. Montgomery as a cause 

 of this phenomenon. 



Dr. Mitchell while acknowledging, as a general rule, the justice of the 

 reason assigned by Dr. Morris, for these arrests of development, declared 

 that it could not explain those cases where for a series of generations the 

 same deformity exists. 



The mother of the person alluded to here, attributed the condition of 

 her son's hand to her having witnessed the amputation by a surgeon of 

 the same fingers while pregnant. 



April. 

 Dr. Mitchell read the following paper on Corroval and Vao. 

 I860.] 




PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [BiolOiT- 



O2 the Physical and Chemical characteristics of Corroval and Vao, two recently 

 discovered varieties of Woorara, and on a new Alkaloid constituting their 

 active principle. 



BY WILLIAM A. HAMMOND, M. D. 

 Assistant Surgeon TJ. S. Army, and 

 S. WEIR MITCHELL. M. D. 



I><'ctiirer i>n Physiology in the Ihiladelphia Medical Association. 



The two new varieties of woorara, whicli, so far as relates to their 

 physical and chemical characteristics, we design considering at present, 

 were brought in February, 18.57, from the Rio Darien, in New Granada, 

 by Drs. Ruschenberger and Caldwell of the United States Navy. By 

 these gentlemen they were presented to Prof. Joseph Carson, of the 

 University of Pennsylvania, to whom we must express our acknowledg- 

 ments for the opportunity afforded us of analyzing and experimenting 

 with these curious poisons. 



The corroval, the more powerful of the two, has the general appearance 

 of a vegetable extract of a brownish black color. The fracture is some- 

 what conchoidal, but some of the fragments in our possession have a sur- 

 face such as would be given to the superficies of an inspissated vegetable 

 infusion on cooling. When pulverized, itis of a tawny yellow appearance. 

 Its taste is an intense and very persistent bitter. The saturated aqueous 

 infusion is of a very dark brown, almost black color, and of neutral or 

 exceedingly slight acid reaction. The alcoholic tincture is of a pale 

 yellow tint. Both water and alcohol extract the poisonous principle, as 

 do also ether and chloroform, though to a very diminished extent. No 

 crystals are deposited from either of these solutions, except from the 

 ethereal. They consist entirely of fatty substances. 



The residue, insoluble in water, submitted to microscopical examination, 

 is seen to consist of vegetable cells, starch granules, portions of woody 

 tissues, oil globules, &c.; small grains of silica are also to be observed. 

 No parts of animals of any kind can be discovered by most careful ex- 

 amination with object-glasses of high power and excellent defining quality. 

 If the fangs of poisonous serpents, the livers and other parts of the body 

 were used in the manufacture of corroval, we should undoubtedly have 

 detected their anatomical elements. We therefore regard it as certain 

 that such substances do not enter into the composition of the material 

 under consideration. 



Corroval burns with a yellow flame, and gives off a considerable amount 

 of smoke and vapor. This latter has an odor very similar to that of 

 human excrement, and, as we have ascertained, possesses all the poisonous 

 activity of the corroval in substance. A mouse made to inhale the fumes 

 died in less than two minutes. Corroval heated upon platinum foil, in 

 the flame of the blow-pipe, is almost entirely volatilized. The ash con- 

 sists of silica, iron, and certain saline substances. 



In external characteristics vao cannot be distinguished from corroval. 

 That in our possession is a dark brown extract, hard, and perfectly 

 dry, and unaffected by exposure to the atmosphere. It yields its toxic 



principle to water and alcohol, the infusions being of similar physical 

 ■qualities and reaction with those of corroval. The insoluble portion 



[April, 




Dept.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 5 



consists of a white or light gray deposit of a shred-like and flocculent 

 appeai'ance. Examined under the microscope this is seen to be princi- 

 pally composed of amorphous matter with which, however, starch granules 

 and cells of vegetable origin, together with masses of woody tissue and 

 fragments of silica are mingled. No animal structures are to be detected 

 on the most minute examination. 



Vao subjected to the action of heat acts in a manner not distinguish- 

 able from that of corroval, giving off a vapor with similar odor and other 

 properties to that derived from the latter substance. 



Woorara, of which corroval and vao may with propriety be considered 

 as constituting species, has been analyzed by Roulin and Boussingault.* 

 Pelletier and Petrozf and Heintz.J 



Roulin and Boussingault experimented with woorara which had been 

 obtained from the Rio Negro. It was a solid extract of a black color, 

 but brown when reduced to powder, of a resinous appearance, and ex- 

 ceedingly bitter taste. It burned with difficulty, and gave off no odor of 

 organic nitrogenous substances. It was soluble in water, alcohol and in 

 sulphuric ether, though not to any considerable extent. The aqueous 

 infusion was of slight acid reaction ; no strychnine was discovered by 

 these chemists in woorara. 



We may here state that two specimens of ordinary woorara, which we 

 owe to the kindness of Major LeConte, of Philadelphia, and Prof. J. C 

 Dalton, of New York, agree in all essential particulars with that above 

 described. 



By the following process, Roulin and Boussingault obtained from 

 woorara a new principle of an alkaloidal character, which they called 

 curarin. 



The woorara was reduced to fine powder and treated repeatedly with 

 boiling alcohol. The extract thus obtained was evaporated, and the 

 solid residue treated with water, which dissolved the active principle, 

 leaving nothing but a little resinous matter. The aqueous solution wa.« 

 then decolorized by animal charcoal, and treated with infusion of galls. 

 A beautiful whitish-yellow, flaky precipitate was then thrown down, having 

 an exceedingly bitter taste. The supernatant liquid was almost entirely 

 deprived of its bitterness; the precipitate thus obtained was well washed, 

 heated to ebullition in water, and dissolved by the addition of oxalic acid. 

 The acid liquor was then supersaturated by magnesia and filtered. It 

 was again evaporated to dryness, and the residue dissolved in alcohol. 

 This solution was concentrated and spontaneously evaporated to a syrupy 

 consistence. It was subsequently further concentrated by evaporation iit 

 vacuo. 



The analysis of Pelletier and Petroz yielded a similar product. These 

 chemists extracted the woorara with alcohol, and treated the tincture thus 

 obtained with ether, in order to remove the fatty and resinous substances 

 present. The alcoholic extract was then evaporated, dissolved in water; 

 and foreign matters precipitated from the solution by the acetate of lead, 

 the excess of lead being removed by sulphuretted hydrogen. The solution 

 was then decolorized by animal charcoal, filtered and evaporated ; sul- 



* Ex.itnen Chimique du Curare, Poison ties Indians de I'Orinoque, Annales de Chimie 

 et de Physique, Tome x.xxix, 1828, p. 24. 



t Examen Chimique de Curare, Annales de Chimie et de Physique, Tome xl. 1829, 

 p. 213. 



t Reisen in British Guiana, Von Richard Schomburgk, Band i, S. 452, (note\ 



I860.] 




6 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Biolog. 



phuric acid diluted with absolute alcohol was then added for the purpose 

 of draining off the acetic acid. The alcohol was removed by evaporation, 

 and the sulphuric acid precipitated by baryta. The excess of the latter 

 was separated by carbonic acid, the liquid was next filtered and concen- 

 trated in the water bath, and the curarin thus obtained further dried in 

 vacuo. 



Obtained by either of these processes, curarin is a solid transparent 

 resinoid substance, of a pale yellow color, very hygroscopic and solubj*" 

 to almost any extent in water and alcohol. Its taste is exceedingly 

 bitter. The solution in water restores the blue color to reddened litmu? 

 paper, neutralizes acids, and forms salts with them, easily soluble in water, 

 but nncrystallizable. 



Curarin gives with concentrated nitric acid, a blood red color, and 

 with concentrated sulphuric acid a carmine tint. 



Heintz proceeded as follows : — To the aqueous solution of the woorara. 

 tannic acid was added, and an abundant precipitate soluble in boiling 

 water was obtained. This was taken from the filter, boiled with magne- 

 sia, and then evaporated to dryness. The extract thus obtained was 

 then treated with alcohol, to remove it from any insoluble salts of magne- 

 sia, and the solution again evaporated to dryness. By this means a yel- 

 lowish brown extract was obtained, possessing no alkaline reaction, but 

 endowed in a eminent degree with the toxic principle of the woorara. 

 Heintz does not regard this extract as at all pure ; subsequently he em- 

 ployed both the bichlorides of mercury and platinum, to effect the pre- 

 cipitation, but with no better success, a yellowish extract being still ob- 

 tained. 



Heintz ascertained by Lassaigne's method that the extract contained 

 nitrogen ; he also found sugar, gum, resin, extractive matter and tannic 

 and gallic acid^s ; traces of saline combinations with organic acids, probably 

 the tartaric a*nd oxalic were also detected. He was unable to discern 

 the least trace of strychnia. 



We think it highly probable, that the woorara examined by Heintz 

 was very far from being of identical character with that analysed by 

 Roulin and Boussingault and Pelletier and Petroz. The difference in 

 the process employed is not sufficient to account for the very dissimilar 

 product obtained by Heintz. His method was certainly such as to have 

 separated any alkaloidal principle present The substance he did obtain 

 was probably nothing but a purified and more highly concentrated 

 woorara, deprived of its woody fibre, starch, silica, &c. 



We now proceed to detail the several steps in a qualitative analysis, 

 made of the corroval and vao. 



A few grains of corroval were subjected to the action of ether. From 

 the solution thus obtained, oil-globules were deposited on evapora- 

 tion, together with a number of minute acicular crystals, insoluble in 

 water, but completely dissolved by hot alcohol and ether. Globular masses 

 of a supposed resin were also present. 



To another portion, water was added till it was completely extracted 

 of all its bitter principle. The residue was perceived to contain several 

 masses apparently of a fatty character. On subjecting this substance to 

 the action of hot ether, it was entirely dissolved, and on evaporating the 

 solution from a slip of glass, and viewing the residue with the microscope, 

 numerous delicate acicular crystals collected in groups and radiating 

 from a central nucleus were perceived. These were soluble in hot alcohol 

 The remaining portion was in the form of oil-globules. 



[April. 




Dept.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. T 



After thus separating the fatty substances as above, the portion in- 

 i^oluble in water was placed in a small retort with a little water ; a 

 receiver surrounded with ice was luted to the retort, and heat applied to 

 the latter. On the surface of the distillate a small portion of essentia! 

 oil floated. This had an odor somewhat resembling that of mustard, but 

 much less pungent. 



The substance remaining iu the retort was next dried at a low tempera- 

 ture, and subjected to the action of alcohol. A yellowish-brown solution 

 resulted, from which, on evaporation, a resinoid substance was ob- 

 tained, having an odor very similar to that of a true essential oil. 



The residue was next calcined in a platinum crucible. By this process 

 the woody fibre, &c., was consumed, hydrochloric acid was added to the ash, 

 and the silica thus separated. To a portion of this solution in hydrochlo- 

 ric acid diluted with water, ferrocyanide of potassium was added, and 

 distinct evidence of the presence of iron obtained. Another portion 

 treated with bichloride of platinum gave after a lapse of several hours 

 a reddish crystalline precipitate, indicating the presence of soda. 



We were prevented by an accident continuingthe analysis of the above 

 portion. 



The aqueous solution was found by the addition of gelatin in excess, to 

 yield a flaky, yellowish white precipitate of tannate of gelatine. It was 

 filtered, and to the filtrate perchloride of iron added. A black precipi- 

 tate of gallate of iron was thrown down. 



From the foregoing analysis we conceive that we have ascertained the 

 existencee in corroval. besides, the active principle, of the following sub- 

 stances :— Olein, Margarin. Essential Oil. Resin, Starch, Silica, Iron, 

 Soda, Woody Fibre, Tannic Acid, Gallic Acid. 



The small quantity of corroval in our possession, prevented us from ex- 

 tending our analysis further in this direction, and for the same reason we 

 are the less disposed to insist upon the absolute accuracy in all its steps of 

 the foregoing investigation. Several of the above named substances were 

 detected by the microscope alone, and this instrument was constantly 

 employed throughout the whole analysis. 



In the separation of the active principle of the corroval, we made use 

 of the following processes : 



1st. Ten grains of the substance were extracted by repeated portions 

 of boiling water, till a bitter taste was no longer afforded. The solutions 

 were now mixed and boiled with magnesia. It was next filtered, and 

 the filtrate filtered repeatedly through animal charcoal, till all the bitter- 

 ness and coloring matter were entirely absorbed. 'J'he charcoal was then 

 treated with boiling alcohol iu fresh portions lill all bitterness was ex- 

 tracted from it. The alcohol was then evai)orated to dryness. By this 

 means a very bitter substance of a greenish white color was obtained, 

 possessed in a high degree of the toxic properties of the corroval. 



2d. The process employed in this instance was that first used by Ronlin 

 and Boussingault, but modified by employing water to extract with, 

 instead of alcohol. 



Ten grains of the corroval were reduced to fine powder and extracted 

 with water, as in thefirst described process. To the solution, tannic acid 

 was added in excess, a voluminous flaky precipitate of a yellowish-white 

 color was thrown down. This was well washed <in a filter to remove the 

 tannic acid, mixed with water and heated to boiling, a few crystals of 

 oxalic acid being added till it was entiiely dissolved. The acid liquor 

 was next treated with magnesia, in excess, and filtered. The filtrate was 




8 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [Biolog. 



evaporated to dryness, and the extract thus obtained, dissolved in hot 

 alcohol. This solution, evaporated to dryness, furnished a substance 

 similar to that obtained by the first process, but more highly colored. 



For the principle thus obtained, possessing as it does the properties of 

 an alkaloid, and in a high degree the toxic properties of the corroval, we 

 propose, in accordance with the principles of the United States Pharma- 

 copoeia, the name of corrovalia. 



Corrovalia* is, when pure a greenish-white substance, of low specific 

 gravity, and, upon the whole, similar to tannic acid in general appear- 

 ance. It is soluble in alcohol, ether and chloroform, and, contrary to the 

 statement in our original memoirs, to a slight extent in water. Heated 

 upon platinum foil, in the flame of a spirit-lamp, it is entirely volatilized. 

 With concentrated nitric acid it gives an emerald green color, which 

 deepens in tint if a small piece of bichlorate of potassa be added. 

 A\''ith sulphuric acid, a reddish-brown color is formed, which, with the 

 further addition of bichromate of potassa, changes in a few minutes to a 

 deep olive green ; with ammonia it gives a deep yellow color, but no pre- 

 cipitate ; with potassa in solution, the result is much the same ; with 

 tannic acid, it gave a white precipitate. 



With iodide of potassium in solution, corrovalia yielded no precipitate 

 or change of tint, nor did it give rise to any reaction in the presence of 

 bichloride of platinum. 



Corrovalia is uncrystallizable from all its solutions, except from thart 

 in chloroform. A drop of the chloroformic solution evaporated to dry- 

 ness on a slip of glass, and subjected to microscopic examination, exhibits 

 numerous acicular crystals, mostly collected in groups, and radiating 

 from common centres. 



Corrovalia neutralizes the sulphuric chlorhydric and acetic acids, and 

 in all probability others, the quantity in our possession being too small 

 for us to investigate its properties further in this direction. The salts 

 formed with the above mentioned acids, as far as we have been able to 

 ascertain, are nncrystallizable. 



Introduced into the blood, corrovalia exerts atoxic power, equalled by 

 few if any substances hitherto known to man. A grain was dissolved 

 in one hundred minims of water. One minim of this solution killed a 

 small mouse in five minutes, when inserted under the skin, and five 

 minims in four and a half minutes produced the same result in a medium 

 sized rabbit. With frogs it is especially active. 



The amount of alkaloid obtained by us from corroval ; amounted to 

 about ten per cent,; from vao, the proportion did not exceed four or five 

 per cent. 



Vao is therefoi'e much weaker than corroval, its physiological action 

 is very similar to the latter substance. The amount of resin contained in 

 it is considerably greater than that found in the corroval, as is also the 

 woody fibre. For the physiological efiiects produced by these new and 

 curious poisons, we must refer to the memoir to which we have already 

 alluded. 



Owing to the small quantity of these substances in our possession, we 

 have been unable to make an ultimate analysis of them, and consequent- 

 ly cannot at present give formulas of their composition. In other respects 

 we have from the same cause been unable to carry our investigations as 



*Experiinental researches relative to Corroval and Vao, &c., American Journal of the 

 Medical Sciences, No. Ixxv, N. S., July, 1859. 



[April, 




INDEX, 



Abbott, Charles C, Descriptions of 

 new species of American Freshwater 

 Fiahes, 325; Description of a new 

 species of Astroscopus, Brev., in the 

 Museum of A. N. S. ; Description of 

 a new species of Cbatoessus, Cuv., 

 from New Jersey, 362, 365 ; Descrip- 

 tions of new species of Apodal Fishes 

 in Mus. A, N. S. ; Descriptions of four 

 new species of North American Cypri- 

 nidae ; Description of a new species of 

 Exocetus from Chili, 416, 472, 473, 

 475 ; Descriptions of two new species 

 of Pimelodus from Kansas, 547, 568 ; 

 don. to mus. i. ii. iii. iv. v. vi. vii. 



Academy, Chicago, of Sciences, don. 

 to lib. iii. 



Academy, C. L. C. Germanicae Naturae 

 Curiosorum, don. to lib. xii. 



Academy, Imperiale, des Sciences, &c., 

 Bordeaux, don. to lib. vi. xii. xvil. 

 xix. 



Academy, Imperiale, des Sciences, &c., 

 Dijon, don. to lib. ix. 



Academy, Imperiale, des Sciences, &c., 

 de Lyon, don. to lib. xix. 



Academy, Imperiale, des Sciences de 

 St. Petersbourg, don. to lib. xii. xviii. 



Academy Kaiserlichen der Wissen- 

 schaften, Wien, don. to lib. viii. ix. 

 xii. xviii. 



Academy Kongliga Svenska, Stock- 

 holm, don. to lib. ix. 



Academy Konig. Preuss. der Wissen. 

 zu Berlin, don. to lib. xii. 



Academy Konink. Van Wetenschappen, 

 Amsterdam, don. to lib. ix. 



Academy Real das Sciences, Lisbon, 

 don. to lib. xx. xxi. 



Academy, Royal Bavarian, of Sciences, 

 don. to lib. vi. 



Academy, Royal Irish, don. to lib. iii. 



I860.] 



Academy, Royale, des Sciences, &c., dc 

 Belgique, don. to lib. xiv. xviii. 



Academy Sciences et Lettres, de Mont- 

 pelier, don. to lib. xix. 



Academy Science of St. Louis, don. 

 to lib. xvi. 



Anthony, J. G., Description of new 

 species of American Fluviatile Gas- 

 teropods, 49, 55. 



Ashmead, Samuel, don. to mus. v. 



Association, American, for the Ad- 

 vancement of Science, don. to lib. 

 vii. 



Association Berg und Hutten, Wien, 

 don. to lib. v. 



Association, Dublin University, Zoolo- 

 gical and Botanical, don. to lib. viii. 



Association, Mercantile Library, New 

 York, don. to lib. xiii. 



Association, Young Men's, of Buffalo, 

 don. to lib, vii. 



Association, Young Men's Mercantile 

 Library, Cincinnati, don. to lib. iii. 



Astor Library, Trustees of, don. to lib. 

 vii. 



Baird, Matthew, don. to mus. iv. 



Barrande, M. Joacbim, don. to lib. xv. 



Barris, J N. H., exchange of Publica- 

 tions for Fossils with, 150; don. to 

 mus. iii. 



Bellardi, Luigi, don. to lib. iv. 



Beneden, J. P. von., don. to lib. xiii. 



Bennett, D. R., don. to mus. i. 



Bernardi, A. C., don. to lib. xviii. 



Binney, Wm. G., Remarks on a species 

 of Leda, and on Geographical dis- 

 tribution of Shells, 49 ; Notes on 

 American Land Shells, No. 6; and 

 Descriptions of new species of Pnl- 

 monata, 146, 150, 154; don. to mus. 

 i. iii. v.; don. to lib. xv. 




INDEX. 



Biological Department, Report of, for 

 Dec, 1859, I ; for June, I860, 4 : for 

 Feb. 54; for April, 150. 



Blanchard, Capt. Miles, doa. to mus. iii. 



Bowen, E., Coal Plants of, presented to 

 the Academy by Members, i. 



Brazier, A. J., don. to lib. xi. 



Breed, Rev. Wm. P., don. to mus. v. 



Bridges, Dr. Robert, don. to mus. i. 



Bronn, Dr. H. G., don. to lib. xiii. xviii. 



Browne, Mrs. P. A., Thanks of the 

 Academy presented to, &c., 415 ; don. 

 to mus. V. 



Browne, Peter A., announcement of 

 death of, 2. 



Brush, George J., don. to lib. viil. 



Buckley, S. B., The Cutting Ant of 

 Texas, 199, 233 ; The Stinging or 

 Mound Ant of Texas, 416, 445 : De- 

 scriptions of several new species of 

 Plants, 417, 443. 



Cadwallader, C. C, don. to Mus. vi. 



Campbell, Henry F. M. D., don. to lib. x. 



Canada, Geological Survey of, don. to 

 lib. xvi. 



Carothers, A. E., don. to mus. vi. 



Carpenter, George W., death of, an- 

 nounced, 201. 



Carson, Dr. .Joseph, Remarks of on 

 death of Dr. Edward Hallo well, 81. 



Cassin, John, Remarks on the presenta- 

 tion to the Academy of Dr. Thomas 

 B. Wilson's collection of Birds, 86 ; 

 Catalogue of Birds collected during 

 a survey of a route for a ship canal 

 across the Isthmus of Darien, &c., 97, 

 132 ; Catalogue of Birds collected 

 during a survey of a route for a ship 

 canal across the Isthmus of Darien, 

 made by Lieut, N. Michler, U.S. Top. 

 Eng.,with Notes and Descriptions of 

 new species, 14S, 188; Descriptions of 

 new Birds of Western Africa in Mus. 

 A. N. S., 363, 364 ; Catalogue of Birds 

 from the Island of St. Thomas, West 

 Indies, with notes, 363, 374 ; Reso- 

 lutions by, in relation to Mrs. Peter 

 A. Browne, 415 ; don. to lib. xi. 



Clemens, Dr. Brackenridge, Contribu- 

 tions to American Lepidopterology, 

 No. 3, 2;4; Contributions to Ame- 

 rican Lepidopterology, No. 4, 146, 

 156 ; Contributions to American 

 Lepidopterology, No. 5, 201, 203 ; 

 Contributions to American Lepidop- 

 terology, No. 6, 325, 345 ; Note on 

 American Tineina, 433 ; Contribu- 



tions to American Lepidopterology. 

 No, 7, 517, 522. 



Coates, Dr. Benjamin H., don. to lib. iv. 



Coleman, W., don. to mus. v. 



Committee on communication of P. B. 

 Duchaillu, 48 ; Report of, 81. 



Committee on death of G. W. Carpen- 

 ter, 201. 



Committee on Jeasup Fund, Rules 

 adopted by, 577. 



Committee to prepare a Memorial in 

 aid of Dr. Evans, 2. 



Committee, Publication, don. to lib. iv. 

 xxii. 



Committees, Election of Standing, 48. 



Condie, Dr., don. to lib. viii. 



Conrad, T. A., Additional new species 

 of Fossils, 2 ; lUustrarions of some 

 Fossils described in the Proceedings 

 of the Acad. Nat. Sci. by T. A. Con- 

 rad and Wm. M. Gabb, 55 ; Notes on 

 Shells, 199, 231; don. to mus. vi. 



Cooper, Dr. J. G. and Dr. G. Suckley. 

 U. S. A., don. to lib. xi. 



Cope, Edward D., Supplement to a 

 Catalogue of the Venomous Serpents 

 in the Mus. Acad. Nat. Sci., 49, 72; 

 Catalogue of the Calamarian Ser- 

 pents in the Mus. Acad. Nat. Sci. with 

 Notes and Descriptions of new spe- 

 cies, 199, 241 ; Notes and Descrip- 

 tions of new and little known Ame- 

 rican Reptiles, 325, 339 ; Description 

 of Reptiles from Tropical America 

 and Asia, 363, 368 ; See Hallowell : 

 Descriptions of new species of the 

 Reptilian genera Hyperolius, Liupe- 

 rus and Tropidodipsas, 511 ; List of 

 the recent species of Emydosanrian 

 Reptiles in the Mus. of the Acad. Nat. 

 Sci., 549 ; Catalogue of the Colu- 

 bridae in the Mus. of the Acad. Nat. 

 Sci., &C.J Part 3, 551, 553 ; don. to 

 mus. iv. V. vi. vii. 



Corse, Dr. J. M., Remarks on Tuber- 

 culous Diseases in Sheep, 548 ; don. 

 to mus. V. 



Coultas, Harlan, don. to lib. iv. 



Cresson, E. T., don. to mus. ii. 



Cresson, Walter, don. to lib. xxi. 



Curators, Report of, 575. 



Darrach, Dr. J., Catalogue of Plants 

 collected in flower in the neighbor- 

 hood of Philadelphia, 145, 199, .?02, 

 611. 



Darrach, Samuel, don. to mus. v. 



Dawson, J. W., don. to lib. i. vii. xi. 

 xvi. xxi. 



[1860. 




INDEX. 



Department of War, doa. to lib. xi. 

 Dow, Capt. J. M., don. to mus. ii. 

 Dowler, Dr. Bennett, don. to lib. xv. 

 Duchaillu, P. B., Communication from, 



48 ; Report of Committee on, 81, 

 Dumeril, A. M. C, death of, announced, 



415. 

 Dunlap, B. G., don. to mus. i. 

 Dunlap, Thomas, don. to lib. iv. 

 Dunn, Dr. T. C, don. to mus. v. 

 Darand, E., Remarks on changing the 



name Carya Texana to C. Buckleyi, 



547; don. to mus. vii. ; don. to lib. 



vil. XX. 



Editor of American Journal of Med- 

 ical Sciences, don. to lib. viii. siii. 

 xvi. 



Editor of American Journal of Phar- 

 macy, don. to lib. i. iv. viii. xii. xv. 



XX. 



Editors of American Journal of Sci- 

 ence and Arts, don. to lib. i. iv. viii. 

 xiii. XV. xxi. 



Editors of American Medical Times, 

 don. to lib. x. xi. xiii. xiv. xv. xvi. 

 xvii. xviii. xix. xx. xxi. 



Editor of Annual of Scientific Dis- 

 covery, don. to lib. iii. 



Editors of Archiv fur Naturgeschichte. 

 don. to lib. vi. 



Editors of Austrian Journal of Medi- 

 cal Practice, don. to lib. vi. 



Editors of Bibliotheque Universelle, 

 Revue Suisse et Etrangere, don. to 

 lib. X. xvi. XX. 



Editor of California Farmer, don. to 

 lib. viii. ix. x. xi. xiii. xv. xxi. 



Editor Charleston Medical Journal 

 and Review, don. to lib. i. iv. ix. 

 xiii. XV. XX. 



Editors of Dental Cosmos, don. to lib. 

 i. iii. iv. V. viii. ix. xi. xiii. xv. xvi. 

 xviii. xxi. 



Editors of Edinburgh New Philosoph. 

 Journal, don. to lib. viii. xv. xviii. 



Editor of Gardener's Monthly, don. 

 to lib. ix. X. xi. xiii. xv. xvi. xvii. 

 XX. xxi. 



Editors of Hutching's California Maga- 

 zine, don. to lib. ix. 



Editors of Ibis, don. to lib. i. 



Editors of Journal de Conchyliologie, 

 don. to lib. xviii. 



Editor of Mining Magazine and Jour- 

 nal of Geology, don, to lib. xiii. 



Editors of Neues Jahrbuch fur Mine- 

 ralogie, &c., don. to lib. vi. ix. xii. 

 xviii. 



I860.] 



42 



Editors of New Orleans Medical and 

 Surgical Journal, don. to lib. i. viii. 

 xiii. XV. xviii. xx. 



Editors of New York Journal of Medi- 

 cine, don. to lib. iv. vii. viii. 



Editors of New York Medical Press, 

 don. to lib. ii. 



Editors of North Amer. Med.-Chirurg. 

 Review, don, to lib. iv. viii. xiii. xv. 

 xix. 



Editor of Revue et Magasia de Zoo- 

 logie, &c., don. to lib. i. ii. iv. v. vii. 

 ix. xi. xiii. xv. xvi. xviii. xxi. 



Editors of San Francisco Medical Press, 

 don. to lib. viii. 



Editors of Southern Medical and Sur- 

 gical Journal, don. to lib. i. iii. iv. 

 vii. viii. x. xi. xiii. xv. xviii. xix. xxi. 



Editors of St. Joseph's Journal of 

 Medicine and Surgery, don. to lib. ii. 



Election of Members and Correspon- 

 dents, 579. 



Election of Officers for 1861, 578. 



Election of Standing Committees. 48. 



Encke, M., don. to lib, xiv. 



Engelmann, Dr. George, don. to lib. iv. 



Engelmann, H., see Meek. 



Evans, Dr. John, application for 

 Co-operation of the Academy, 2. 



Fahnestock, G. W., don. to mus. iii. 



Field, Lieut. Thomas Y., U. S. N., don. 

 to mus. iii. 



Fisher, Dr. James C, read extract of 

 letter from J. H. Redfield, 148 ; an- 

 nounced the death of Victor G. Au- 

 dubon, 325 ; announced the death of 

 A. M. C. Dumeril, 415 ; Remarks on 

 a specimen of Peat from a bed of 

 leaves on the Atrato River, 515 ; 

 Resolutions by, on the death of Vice- 

 President Le Conte, 516; Report on 

 the Library, 575. 



Forshay, C. S., don. to lib. xiii. 



Foulke, William Parker, Remarks on 

 experiments of T. Sterry Hunt, 96 ; 

 don. to mus. vii. 



Fraley, W. W., don. to mus. iv. 



France, Minister of Public Works, don, 

 to lib. ii. xi, xvi. 



Frost, C. W., don. to mus. iii.; don. to 

 lib. xiv. 



Gabb, William M., Descriptions of new 

 species of Fossils, probably Triassic, 

 from Virginia, 1 ; Descriptions of 

 new species of Cretaceous Fossils, 1 ; 

 Descriptions of new species of Cre- 

 taceous Fossils from New Jersey, 86, 




VI. 



INDEX. 



93 ; Descriptions of some new spe- 

 cies of Cretaceous Fossils from 

 South America in the collection of 

 the Academy, 148, 197; On the 

 identity of Ammonites Texanus, Roe- 

 mer, and A, vespertinus, Morton, 202 ; 

 Catalogue of the Museum of the 

 Academy for the use of visitors, 304 ; 

 Description of a new species of Ce- 

 phalopod from the Eocene of Texas, 

 305. 324; see Horn: Description of 

 new species of Tertiary and Creta- 

 ceous Fossils, 417 ; Description of a 

 u?w species of Cassidulus from the 

 Cretaceous formation of Alabama ; 

 Description of a new genus and spe- 

 cies of Amorphozoa from the Creta- 

 ceous formation of New Jersey, 515, 

 518, 519 ; Remarks on Jurassic Fos- 

 sils in reply to a letter of Jules 

 Marcoti, 548 ; Description of some 

 new species of Tertiary Fossils from 

 Ohiriqui, Central America, 551, 567 ; 

 don. to mus. i.; don. to lib. xv. 



Qarsia, Dr. W. M., don. to mus. iv. 



Gassies, J. B., don to lib. xviii. 



Oerhart, A. S., don. to mus. vii. 



Gill, Theodore, Notes on the Nomen- 

 clature of North American Fishes, 

 and on the pertinence of Alosa teres 

 DeKaij, to the genus Dussumieza, 

 Vo.I. 2, 19, 21. Conspectus Piscium 

 in expeditione adOceanum Pacificum 

 Septentrionalum, C. Ringgold et J. 

 Rogers ducibus, aGr. Stimpson, M. D. 

 CoUectore ; Sicydianse, 96, 100 ; 

 Monograph of the genus Labrisomus 

 of SwaiHSon ; Monograph of the 

 genus Labrax, of Cuvier ; Mono- 

 graph of the Philypni, 97, 102, 108, 

 120. 



Gistel, Dr. Johannes, don. to lib. xxi. 



Glasco, J. M., don. to mus. vi» 



Gould, Dr. A. A. don. to mus. vi. 



Grateloup, M. le Dr., don. to lib. iv. xx. 



Haidinger, Wilhelm, don. to lib. vi. 



Haldeman, S. S., don. to mus. vi. 



Hall, James, don. to lib. iii. xiv. 



Hall, T. J., don. to lib. viii. 



Hallowell, Dr. Edward, death of, an- 

 nounced, 81 ; Reptilia of the North 

 Pacific Exploring Expedition, edited 

 by E. D. Cope, 415, 480. 



Hammond, Dr. Wm A. and Dr. S. 

 Weir Mitchell, on the physical and 

 chemical characteristics of Corroval 

 and Vao, two recently discovered 

 varieties of Woorara, and a new al- 



kaloid containing their active prin- 

 ciple, 100. 



Hanson, H. C, don. to mus. v. 



Harris, Edward, don. to mus. vii. 



Harris, Dr. R. P., don. to mus. iii. v. 



Hartman, W. D., don. to mus. iv. 



Hartshorne, Dr. Henry, don. to lib. xxi. 



Hayden, Dr. F. V., see Meek. 



Hays, Dr. I. I., announcement of hi.5 

 progress in raising funds for his Arc - 

 tic Expedition, 149 ; don. to lib. iv. 



Henry, Dr. Bernard, announcement of 

 death of, 148. 



Bering, C. J., don. to mus. iii. 



Hernandez, Dr. Don Jose de la Sur, 

 don. to lib. iv. 



Hoeckley, F. S., don. to mus. v. 



HoUoway, W. E., don. to mus. i. 



Hopper, J. M. and 0. C. Herbert, vote 

 of thanks to, for donations, 3. 



Horn, George W., descriptions of three 

 new species of Gorgonidse in Mus. 

 Acad. Nat. Sci., 202, 233 ; on Milne - 

 Edwards' synonymy of Xiphigorgia 

 setacea, and Wm. M. Gabb, descrip- 

 tions of new Cretaceous Corals from 

 New Jersey, 363, 366, 367 ; descrip- 

 tions of new Corals in Mus. Acad. 

 Nat. Sci., 415, 435 ; descriptions of 

 new North American Coleoptera, in 

 the Cabinet of the Entomological 

 Society of Philadelphia, 551 ; 569 ; 

 don.Ho mus. v. 



Horn, P. C, don. to mus. iii. 



Homes, Dr. Morris, don. to lib. vi. 



Howe, Joseph, don. to lib. i. 



Hufifnagle, Dr., don. to mus. v. 



Hunt, T. Sterry, letter from, on ex- 

 periments with Chloride of Calcium 

 and Magnesia precipitated by Car 

 bonate of Soda, 96. 



India, Secretary of State for, don. to 



lib. X. 

 Institute, Canadian of Arts &c. don. to 



lib. ii. iv. ix. x. xiii. xviii. 

 Institute, Essex, Salem, don. to Iii: 



xvi. xviii. 

 Institute, Royal Imperial Geological, 



Vienna, don. to lib. vi. xviii. 

 Institute, Maryland, don. to lib. iii. xv. 

 Institution, Royal Lombard, of Science, 



&c., don. to lib. x. 



Jackson, Dr. J. B. S., don. to mus. \\\ 

 Jackson, Dr. R. M. S., don. to lib. xiii. 

 Jan, M., don. to lib. iii. 

 Jane way. Dr. J. H., don. .to mx-.s. i.; 

 don. to lib. xi. 




INDEX. 



in. 



Jeanes, Joseph, don. to mus. vi. vii. 



Jeanes, Samuel, don. to mus. vi. vii. 



Jessup, Augustus E., resolutions on 

 death of, 1 ; letter from A. D. Jessup, 

 E. A. Jessup and Mrs. Clara J. Moore, 

 children of the late, 95. 



Jolis, Auguste C, don. to lib. xix. 



Jones & White, don. to lib. vii. 



Kane, Dr. J. K., don. to mus. ii. iii. 



Kaull, William, don. to mus. i. 



Xellog, F., don. to mus. i. 



Kennicott, Robert, description of new 

 species of North American Reptiles 

 in the Museum of the Smithsonian 

 Institution, 325; 328. 



Kern, Edward M., don. to mus. iv. 



Kirschbaum, C. S., don. to lib. ix. 



Kollar, Dr., don. to mus. v. 



Krider, John, don. to. mus. i, v. 



Kurtz, J. D., don. to lib. i. 



Lamont, Dr. J., don. to lib. v. 



Langstroth, L. L., don. to lib. vii. 



Lapham, J. A., a list of the fresh-water 

 shells of Wisconsin, 146 ; 154. 



Lea, Isaac, LL. D.. Prest. Acad. Nat. 

 Sci., remarks on the death of A. E. 

 Jessup and resolutions by, 1 ; re- 

 marks on the history of Anthracite 

 coal, 2 ; remarks on the number of 

 species of XJnionidae in the United 

 States and Territories, 3 ; remarks 

 on abnormal shells, 51 ; descriptions 

 of four new species of Unionidse from 

 Brazil ; description of fifteen new 

 species of Uruguayan Unionidae ; re- 

 marks on the number of Unionidse of 

 North America, 85 ; 89 : 90 ; de- 

 scription of four new species of Me- 

 ianiadcB of the United States; descrip- 

 tions of five new species of Uniones 

 from Alabama, 86 ; 92 ; 93 ; remarks 

 on letter of Dr. Lewis on the color- 

 ing matter of the nacre of Uniones, 

 88 ; remarks on a new form of palpi 

 of Anodonta, 97 ; remarks on letter 

 of Dr. Showalter of Ala., on speci- 

 mens of Physa ; and on letter from 

 Dr. Lewis on self-registering ther- 

 mometer, 147 ; descriptions of four- 

 teen new species of Schizostoma, 

 Anculosa, &c., 148 ; 186 ; remarks 

 oa perforation of rocks by Echini, 

 149 ; descriptions of two new species 

 of Uniones from Georgia ; descrip- 

 tions of three new species of Uniones 

 from Mexico ; descriptions of six new 

 species of Unionidae from Alabama; 



descriptions of seven new species of 

 Unionidffi from the United States ; 

 descriptions of three new species of 

 exotic Unionidffi, 302 : 305 ; read na 

 extract of a. letter from Bishop El- 

 liott on Helix Cumberlandiana, 363 ; 

 new Unionidte of the United State.>5 

 and Northern Mexico, 415 ; read let- 

 ter from Jules Marcou, 548 ; read 

 letters from .Air. Tyson of Md. 550 ; 

 don. to mus. ii. iii. iv. v. vii. dpn. to 

 lib. iv. V. xxi. 



Lea, M. Carey, don. to lib. i. xiii. x^i. 



Le Conte, Maj. John, Vice President, 

 announcement of death of, and reso- 

 lutions concerning, 516 ; don. to mus. 

 ii. 



Le Conte, Dr. J. L., remarks on the 

 geographical distribution of Coleop- 

 tera, 49; resolutions by on death of 

 Dr. Edward Hallowell, 82 ; notes on 

 Coleoptera found at Fort Simpson, 

 Mackenzie River, with remarks on 

 other northern species, 304 ; 315 ; sy- 

 nopsis of the Scaphidiidte of the Uni- 

 ted States, 304; 321; don. to mus. vii. 

 don. to lib. x. 



Leidy, Dr. Joseph, remarlcs on Alber- 

 tite, 54; announcement of the pur- 

 chase of the collection of coal fosstls 

 of Mr. Eli Bowen, 54 : remarks on 

 Hyalonemamirabilis, 85 ; announce- 

 ment of the presentation by Dr. T. 

 B. Wilson of his entire collection of 

 Birds, 86 ; remarks on experiments 

 with Trichina spiralis, 96: remarks 

 on a new and rich botanical locality 

 at Jackson, New Jersey, 98 ; resolu- 

 tion to exchange the Journal and 

 Proceedings with Mr. J. N. H. Barris 

 for a suite of fossils, 150; notice oi 

 specimen of Hyla, 305 ; remarks on 

 fossil teeth of Hippotherium from 

 Washington Co., Texas, 416; re- 

 marks on an extinct Peccary from 

 Dr. D. D. Owen, 416; announced the 

 death of Dr. David Dale Owen, 516 ; 

 don. to mus. i. iii. vi. vii. don. to lib. 

 xiii. xiv. xvii. 



LeMoine, J. M., don. to lib. vi. 



Lesley, J. P., remarks on letter of T. 

 Sterry Hunt, 96; remarks on a boul- 

 der of Gneiss on the Orange Co., N. 

 Y. Highlands. 97 : remarks on the 

 geology of the White Mountains, 363. 



Lesquereux, Leo, don. to lib. xxi. 



Lewis, Dr. James, catalogue of the 

 shell-bearing Mollusca found in the 




INDEX. 



vicinity of Mohawk, N. Y., 1 ; 17 ; 



extract of letter from, 88. 

 Lewis, George T., don. to mus. iii. 

 Leopoldt, F., don. to lib. x. 

 Librarian, Report of, 575. 

 Library, Trustees of New York State, 



don. to lib. ix. 

 Logan, Dr. J. Dickinson, don. to mus. vii. 

 Lowes, J. B. and J. H. Gilbert, don. to 



lib. vii. 

 Lyceum of Natural History, New York, 



don. to lib. iv. 

 Lynch, Capt. Wm. F., U. S. N., don. to 



lib. iv. 



Mactier, Wm. L., don. to mus. i. don. 

 to lib. xiv. 



Marcou, Jules, letter from in regard to 

 Jurassic fossils, 548 ; don. to lib. 

 xviii. 



Marsh. Benj. V., don. to mus. iv. 



Martius, Carl Freidrick Philipp v., don. 

 to lib. vi. 



Mason, E. P., don. to mus. i. 



Matthews, S. H., don. to mus. vii. 



McChesney, J, H., don. to lib. iii. 



-McKibben, J., don. to mus. iv. 



Meehan, Thomas, note on Carya Texana, 

 547, don. to lib. x. 



Meek, F. B. and H. Engelmann, report 

 to Capt. J. H Simpson, 12(3; and 

 Dr. F. V. Hayden, descriptions of 

 new organic remains from the Ter- 

 tiary, Cretaceous and Jurassic rocks 

 of Nebraska, 148 ; 175 : descriptions 

 of new fossil remains collected in Ne- 

 braska and Utah, &c., 302 ; 308 ; 

 and A. H. Worthen, descriptions of 

 new species of Crinoidea from the 

 Carboniferous rocks of Illinois and 

 other Western States, 363 ; 379 ; and 

 Dr. F. V. Hayden, Systematic cata- 

 logue with synonymy of Jurassic, 

 Cretaceous and Tertiary fossils col- 

 lected in Nebraska, &c., 415 ; 417 ; 

 descriptions of new Carboniferous 

 fossils from Illinois and other West- 

 ern States, 416 ; 447. 



Meigs, Dr. J. Aitken, observations upon 

 the form of the Occiput in the vari- 

 ous races of men, 363 ; 397 ; don. to 

 mus. i. 



Milson, Dr. Augustus, don. to mus. iii. 



Misser, P., don. to lib. v. 



Mitchell, Dr. S. Weir, see Hammond ; 

 don. to mus. v. don. to lib. i. vii. 



Montes de Oca, Rafael, Mexican Hum- 

 ming Birds No. 1, 3 ; 47 ; Mexican 

 Humming Birds No. 2. 54 : 80 : Mezi- 



caa Humming 3irds Nos. 3 and 4, 



517; 551. 

 Moore, Dr. Francis, don. to mas. v. 

 Morris. Dr. J. C, don. to mus. vi. 

 Moss, T. F., don. to mus. iii. iv. 

 Moulins, Charles de, don. to lib. xix. 



XX. 



Mueller. Dr. Carolus, don. to lib. v. xi. 

 Museum, Geological, Calcutta, don. to 

 lib., iii. viii. 



Newberry. Dr. J. S., don. to lib. xir. 



xxi. 

 Nicholson, Capt., don. to mus. ii. 

 Norris, Thaddeus W. don. to mus. vi. 



Observatory, Royal of Munich, don. to 



to lib. vi. 

 Ohio, Legislature of, don. to lib. xi. 

 Orrick, A. C, don. to mus. ii. 

 Osten, Sac«ken, Baron R., Appendix to 



the paper entitled " new genera and 



species of North American Tipuliiiae 



with short palpi," 2 ; 15. 

 Owen, Dr. David Dale, announcement 



of the death of, 516. 



Paine, Martyn, M. D., don. to lib. xiii. 



Pennsylvania, Slate of, don. to lib. i. ii. 



Perkins, Edward L., vote of thanks to, 

 for donation, 3 ; don. to mus. i. 



Petermann, Dr. A., don. to lib. viii. 



Phillips, J. S., don. to mus. iii. 



Pickering, Dr. Charles, remarks on the 

 history of Anthracite coal, 2. 



Pierce, J. Newton, don. to mus. v. 



Piggott, John T. don. to mus. v. 



Potts & Klett, don. to mus. ii. 



Powel, Samuel, remarks on binocular 

 vision, 99 ; don. to mus. i. iii. 



Prime, Temple, descriptions of new 

 species of Cyrena and Corbicula in 

 the Mus. Acad, Nat. feci., 51 ; 80 ; 

 Synonymy of the Cyclades a family 

 of Acephalous Mollusca, part 1st, 

 199 : 267 ; don. to mus. v. doa. to 

 lib. ii. 



Purves, L., don. to mus. i. 



Quetelet, M. Ad., don. to lib. xiv. 

 Quetelet, M, Ernest, don. to lib. xiv. 



Rand, Dr. B. H., resolution of thanks 

 to Van Amburgh & Co., 516. , 



Rand, F. D., don. to mus. iii. 



Ravenel, H. W., don. to mus. iv. 



Redfield, John H., description of a 

 new species of Marginella, 148 ; 

 174. 



1860. 




INDEX. 



Report of Committee on Memorial in 

 aid of Dr. Evans, 2. 



Report of Committee on letter of A. E. 

 Jessnp. &c., 100. 



Report of Committee on Proceedings, 

 4S. 



Report of Publication Committee, 48. 



Resolutions on the death of A. E. Jes- 

 snp, 1. 



Resolutions in relation to the meteor- 

 ite of Port Orford, W. T., 2. 



Resolutions on the death of Dr. Ed- 

 ward Hallowell, 82. 



Resolutions on the death of George W. 

 Carpenter, 201. 



Resolutions on the death of Vice Presi- 

 dent Le Conte, 516. 



Roepper, Mr., don. to mus. iii. 



Rogers, Prof. Fairman, don. to mus. 

 vii. 



Rogers, Prof. Robert E., remarks on 

 the debitumenization of coal and 

 propagation of concussion, 53 ; re- 

 marks on Petroleum wells of West- 

 em Pennsylvania, 147 ; exliibition 

 of a modification of Gore's apparatus 

 of revolving metallic ball, 148 ; ex- 

 hibition of experiments on the de- 

 composing power of Carbonic Acid 

 in solution, and of Prof. Way's 

 light, and reclamation of, for Dr. 

 Hare, 515 ; don. to mus. iv. 



Rogers, Prof. Wm. B., remarks on 

 Albertite, or so-called Albert coal of 

 New Brunswick, 98 ; remarks on 

 experiments in binocular vision, 98 ; 

 don. to lib. vii. 



Ruschenberger, Dr. W. S. W., re- 

 marks on binocular vision, 99 ; re- 

 signation from Committees, 324 ; 

 don. to mus. ii. 



Samuel, David, don. to mus. iii. 



Sauvalle, F. A., don. to mus. vi. 



Say, Mrs. Lucy W., don. to lib. iv. v. 

 xi. xvi. xvii. xxi. 



Scattergood, Theo., don. to mus. ii. 



Schmidt, Dr. H. D., method of paint- 

 ing moist anatomical preparations, 

 54. 



Secretary, Recording, Report of, 572. 



Seidel, Ludwig, don. to lib. v. 



Semple, Dr., U. S. N., don. to mus. ii. 

 iii. 



Short. J., don. to mus. iv. 



Shumard, Dr. B. F., don. to lib. i. ii. 

 iii. xvi. 



Simpson, Capt. J. H., Top. Eng., no- 

 tice of geological discoveries made 



I860.] 



by him in his recent explorations 

 across the continent, 97, 126. 

 Sinclair, Dr., U. S. N., don. to mus. 



vi. 

 Slack, Dr. J. H., remarks on the dis- 

 covery of some fossil bones, 3 ; re- 

 marks on the finding of teeth of 



Mosasaurus, 54 ; don. to m\is. i. ii. 



iii. iv. vii. 

 Smith, Aubrey H., and Alex. H. Smith, 



letter on the habits of the Beaver, 



146 ; remarks on a black snak*', 



which, when alarmed, ascended a 



tree, 149 ; don. to mus. vii. 

 Smith, Charles E., don. to mus. vii. 

 Smith, N. and E., don. to mus. i. 

 Smithsonian Institution, don. to mus. 



i. ii. iii. v. ; don. to lib. i. xii. xiii. 

 Snowden, J. Ross., don. to lib. ii. 

 Society, Academiq\ie de Maine et Loire, 



don. to lib. vi. 

 Society, American Antiquarian, don. 



to lib. ii. X. 

 Society, American Geographical and 



Statistical, don. to lib. xiii. 

 Society, American Philosophical, don. 



to lib. i. X. 

 Society, Arts and Institutions in Union, 



London, don. to lib. ii. xvii. 

 Society, Beforderung des Gartenbaus, 



Berlin, don. to lib. xii. 

 Society, Boston Natural History, don. 



to lib. i. iii. iv. ix. xi. xiv. xviii. 

 Society, Chemical, of London, don. to 



lib. xxi. 

 Society, Deutschen Geologischen, Ber- 

 lin, don. to lib. ii. vi. xviii. xix. 

 Society, Entomologique de France, 



Paris, don. to lib. iv. 

 Society, Entomologischen, Berlin, don. 



to lib. xii. 

 Society, Entomologischen zu Stettin, 



don. to lib. vi. 

 Society, Freunde der Naturgeschichte 



in Meklenburg, don. to lib. vi. xviii. 

 Society, fiirstlich Jablonowskischen 



zu Leipzig, don. to lib. vi. 

 Society, Geological, of Dublin, don. to 



lib. viii. 

 Society, Geological, of London, don. to 



lib. i. vii. xi. xvii. 

 Society, Historical, of Pennsylvania, 



don. to lib. iii. 

 Society, Imperiale des Naturalistes de 



Moscou, don. to lib. ii. xix. 

 Society, Imperiale des Sciences, «&c., 



de Cherbourg, don. to lib. ix. xix. 

 Society, K. K. Zoologisch-botanischeu. 



Wien, don. to lib. xviii. 




INDEX. 



Society, Kong. Danske Videnskaber- 



nes, Kjobenliaveii, don. to lib. ii. 

 Society, Konig. bohmischen der Wis- 



senschaften, Prag, don. to lib. vi. 

 Society, Konigl. der Wissenschaften 



zu Gottingen, don. to lib. xviii. 

 Society, Leeds Philosophical and Liter- 

 ary, don. to lib. xvii. 

 Society, Linnean, of London, don. to 



lib. ix. 

 Society, Linneene de Normandy, don. 



to lib. vi. 

 Society, Literary and Philosophical, of 



Liverpool, don. to lib. xviii. 

 Society, Literary and Philosphical, of 



Manchester, don. to lib., xvii. 

 Society, Natural History, of Dorpat, 



don. to lib. xii. 

 Society, Naturforschenden in Emden, 



don. to lib. xvii. 

 Society, Naturforschenden in Basel, 



don. to lib. ii. 

 Society, Natural History, of Montreal, 



don. to lib. i. iv. vii. xi. xv. xxi. 

 Society, Naturforschenden zu Frei- 

 burg, don. to lib. ii. xii. 

 Society, Naturforschenden zu Kiga, 



don. to lib. vi. 

 Society, Naturhistorischen der preus- 



sischen Rheinland und Westpha- 



lens, don. to lib. ix. 

 Society, Naturkuude in Herzogthum, 



Nassau, don. to lib. ix. 

 Society, Natuurkundige in Nederland- 



isch Indie, don. to lib. i. viii. ix. x. 



xvi. 

 Society, Northern Antiquaries, of Co- 

 penhagen, don. to lib. x. 

 Society, of Oberhessischen fur Natur- 



und Heilkunde, don. to lib. xvii. 

 Society, Osterlande zu Altenburg, don. 



to lib. vi. 

 Society, Physikal-Medicin, Wiirzburg, 



don. to lib. xii. 

 Society, Physique et d'Histoire Natu- 



relle de Geneve, don. to lib. 



ix. 

 Society, Royal, of Edinburgh, don. to 



Ub. X. 

 Society, Royal, of London, don. to lib. 



vii. XV. xvii. xviii. 

 Society, Royal Physical, of Edinburgh, 



don. to lib. xvii. 

 Society, Russich-Kaiserlichen Mine- 



ralogischen zu St. Petersbourg, don. 



to lib. xviii. 

 Society, Scientiarcm Upsaliensis, don. 



to lib. xix. 



Society, Senckenbergischen Naturfor- 

 schenden, don. to lib. xii. 



Society, Wissenschaften zu Leipzig, 

 don. to lib. xix. 



Society, Wurttembergische Naturwis- 

 senschaftliche, don. to lib. vi. 



Society, Zoological, of London, don. to 

 lib. i. vii. XX. xxi. 



Society, Zoologische, Frankfurt am 

 Main, don. to lib. ii. xix. 



Society, Zoologisch-Mineralogischen in 

 Regensberg, don. to lib. xii. 



Stainton, H. T., observations on Ameri- 

 can Tineina, 416, 433. 



Steiner, Dr. Lewis H., don. to lib. vii. 



Stimpson, Wm., Prodromus descrip- 

 tionis animalium evertebratorum, 

 quae in Expeditione ad Oceanum 

 Paciflcum Septentrionalem, a Re- 

 pubUca Federata missa, C. Ringgold 

 et J. Rodgers Ducibus, observavit 

 et descrijjsit, 22. 



Storer, Frank H., don. to lib. xi. 



Suess, Prof. Edward, don. to lib. vi. 

 xviii. 



Swift, Robert, don. to mus. v. vi. 



Tatnall, Edward, don. to lib. xv. 

 Taylor, Alfred B. , don. to Ub. ii. 

 Taylor, Prof. W. J., don. to mus. iv. 



vi. 

 Thompson, J. H., don. to mus. i. 

 Trautwine, J. C, don. to mus. vii. 

 Troschel, Dr. F. H., don. to lib. xii. 



xix. 

 Turner, Dr. T. .1., U. S. N., don. to 



mus. i. 

 Tyson, Isaac, don. to mus. iii. 

 Tyson, P. T., don. to mus. vii. ; don. 



to lib. xvii. 



Uhler, P. R., Hemiptera of the North 

 Pacific Exploring ExpeditioB, &c., 

 201, 221. 



Uhler, Dr. Wm. M., don. to na-as. vii. 



University, Catholic, of Louvain, don. 

 to lib. xii. 



University, Royal, of Christiana, Nor- 

 way, don. to lib. v. 



University, State of Michigan, don. to 

 lib. iii. 



University, State of New York, Re- 

 gents of, don. to lib. xvii. 



Van Amburgh & Co., thanks of the 

 Academy to for donations to Mu- 

 seum, 516 ; don. to mus. vii. 



Vaux, Wm. S., resolution oflfered by, 

 148 ; don. to mus. ii. vi. vii. 



[1860. 




INDEX. 



Ward, Townsend, don. to mus. iv. 



"Warren, David M., don. to lib. xii. 



Wayne, Major, U. S. A., don. to lib. 

 vii. 



Weinland, Dr. S. P., don. to lib. xiii. 



Weitenweber, Dr. Wilh. Rud. , don. to 

 lib. vi. 



Westermann, B., & Co, don. to lib. 

 xi. 



Wetlierill, Dr. C. M., don. to mus. 

 iv. ; don to lib. xi. xiii. xvi. 



Wiegel, F. 0., don. to lib. xix. 



Wilcocks, Dr. Alexander, don. to lib. 

 iii. 



Willis, J. R., announcement of the 

 discovery of Waldheimia cranium 

 and. Littorina litorea on the shore of 

 Nova Scotia, 148. 



Wilson, Dr. Joseph, U. S. N., remarks 

 on a tiger cat, (Felis pardalis mini- 

 mus,) 82 ; don. to miis. i. ii. iii. 



Wilson, Dr. Thomas B., don. to mus. 

 ii. iv. vi. vii. ; don. to lib. i. ii. iii. 

 iv. V. vii. viii. x. xi. xii. xiii. xiv. 

 XV. xvi. xvii. XX. xxi. xxii. 



Wood, Horatio C, Jr., contributions 

 to the Carboniferous Flora of the U. 

 States, 199, 236 ; catalogue? of Car- 

 boniferous plants in Mus. Acad. 

 Nat. Sci., with corrections in syno- 

 nymy, descriptions of new species, 

 &c., 415, 436 ; contributions to the 

 Carboniferous Flora of the U. States, 

 No. 2, 517, 519 ; don. to mus. iii. 

 iv. vi. ; don. to lib. vii. 



Worthen, A. H., see Meek. 



Xantus, .John, descriptions of three 

 new species of Star-fishes from Cape 

 St. Lucas, Lower California, 551, 568. 



I860.] 




186 








BMI^R^"^^ 



QH Academy of Natural Sciences 



1 of Philadelphia 

 A2 Proceedings 



V.12 



Biolo^i^al 

 & Medical 

 Serials 



PLEASE DO NOT REMOVE 

 CARDS OR SLIPS FROM THIS POCKET 



UNIVERSITY OF TORONTO LIBRARY 



STORAGE 





