



7-i-- 



PROCEEDINGS 



ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES 



PHILADELPHIA. 



1878. 



PUBLICATION COMMITTEE. 

 Joseph Leidt, M.D., Geo. H. Horn, M.D., 



Wm. S. Vadx, Thomas Meehan, 



Geo. a. Kcenig, Ph.D. 



Editor: EDWARD J. NOLAN, M.D. 



PHILADELPHIA: 



ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES, 



S. W. Corner Nineteenth and Race Streets. 



1879. 



S 




Q 



^. do 



AcADKMr OF Natohal Sciences of Piiii.AnEi.i'iiiA, 



February 17, 1879. 



I licrcby certify that printed copies of the Proceedings for 1878 have been 



PHILADELPHIA . 

 COLLINS, PRINTER. 




LIST OF CONTRIBUTORS, 



With reference to the several articles contributed by each. 

 For Verbal Communications see General Index. 



Chapman, H. C. On the Structure of the Gorilla (Pis. III.-IV.) .... 385 

 Coues, Elliott, and H. C. Yarrow. Notes on the Natural History of 



Fort Macon, N. C, and Vicinity, No. 4 21 



Same, No. 5 297 



Cresson, E. T. Descriptions of new Species of North American Bees 181 

 Description of Ichneumonidce, chiefly from the Pacific Slope of the 



United States and British North America 348 



Ennis, Jacob. The Electric Constitution of the Solar System 102 



Elements of the Sidereal System 1''4 



Goldsmith, E. On the Alkali of the Plains in Bridger Valley, Wyoming 



Territory 42 



Stibianite, a new Mineral 154 



StafiFellite, from Pike's Peak, Col 156 



Hyatt, Alpheus. On a new Species of Sponge (PI. I.) 163 



Kingsley, J. S. Notes on the North American Caridea in the Museum 



of the Peabody Academy of Science of Salem, Mass 89 



Kcenig, Geo. A. On the Association of Grossularite, Zoisite, Heulan- 



dite, and Leidyite, a new species 81 



Lewis, James. On Unio subrostratus, Say 273 



McCook, Kev. H. C. The Basilica Spider and her Snare 124 



Note on the Probable Geographical Distribution of a Spider by the 



Trade Winds 136 



McQuillen, .J. H. Recovery of all the Faculties in a Pigeon from 

 which Four-fifths of the Upper Portion of the Cerebrum had 



been removed 342 



Mazyck, Wm. G., and A. W. Vogdes. Description of a New Fossil from 



the Cretaceous Beds of Charleston, S. C 272 



Rand, T. D. On a Belt of Serpentine and Steatite in Radnor Town- 

 ship, Delaware Co., Pa 402 



Rusdienberger, W. S. W. Notice of the late Dr. Pickering 166 



Ryder, J. A. On the Mechanical Genesis of Tooth Forms 45 



Description of a New Species of Smynthurus 35 




IV LIST (IF •"UNTIUHUTORS, 



Sicnins, H. K. C. DrscriptiDii iil:i New S|icci(s of Doliihclla, from Vto 

 Giilfof Ciiliroriii.i, wiili itrinaiks on other Hare or Littlp-kiiown 

 Specie-! from Uio Same li<'u:ioii (I'l. VII.) :;9r> 



Stevenson, Wm. C'., Jr. Additions to Mr. Cooite's paper "On the 



Valsei of tlie L'nited States" 80 



Streets, Tlios. II. Peiayic Ampliipoda (PI. II. j 270 



Waclismuth, Chns., and Frank Sprinj;er. Transition Forms in C'ri- 



noids, and Description of Five New Species 224 



While, C!. A. Description of New Species of Invertebrate Fo.ssils from 

 the Carboniferous and Upper Silurian Rocks of Illinois and 

 Indiana 29 




S-F7 



PROCEEDINGS 



OF THE 



ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES 



OF 



PHILADELPHIA. 



1878. 



January 1, 1878. 



The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 



Thirteen members present. 



The following papers were presented for publication: — 



" IsTotes on the Natural History' of Fort Macon, N. C, and 



Vicinity (Xo. 4)," by Elliott Coues, M.D., and H. C. Yarrow, M.D. 

 " On the Mechanical Genesis of Tooth-Forms," by John A. 



Ryder. 



January 8. 



The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 



Thirtj'-one members present. 



The deaths of J. P. Kirtland, member, and Dr, Louis Pfeiffer, 

 and Prof. C. Nees Yon Esenbeck, correspondents, were an- 

 nounced. 



January 15. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Twenty-six members present. 

 A paper entitled " Descriptions of New Species of Invertebrate 




10 PROCEEDINGS OF TflE ACADEMY OP [1878 



F(tssils from tlic Carlioniforoiis juhI I'pjifr Silurian Hocks of 

 Illinois !iii(l Indiana," liy (.'. A. \\'liito, .M.D., was liresented for 



liiililii'ali(jn. 



Jiorlnij of CoroUas from the Outxide by Honey- Bees. — Mr. 

 Thomas Mekiian rcfciiitl to the practice of tlie linnible-liee in 

 l)oiin«>; tlie corolla instead of entering l»y the mouth, even wlieii 

 tiiere inigiit Ite no great difTicult y in doing so. A lew years ago 

 it was not noticed that any Iloweis were despoiled of their sweets 

 in this extraneous way, Init it was now known tiiat tiie list of 

 l)lants so treated was ver^- large, and the humljle-bee in America 

 liad already lost considerable of its reputation as an agent in the 

 cross fertilization of flowers, lie had carefully watched the 

 honey-bee for some 3'eai-s, but could never feel sure that it also 

 bored the corollas in the same way, for though he had often seen 

 them working from the outside, lie suspected that they used the 

 holes made by the humble-bee. Mr. Ryder, at one of our meet- 

 ings, had insisted that the honey-bee did actually work oceasion- 

 aliy in this way, and Mr. Meehan said he was thus led to go over 

 the subject again, proving Mr. Kyder to be right. Late in the 

 autumn, long after most other flowers were gone, and with no 

 hund)le-bees about, scarlet sages, Solria tipleiideus, for nearly a 

 ■week together, received the sole attention of the honey-bees, 

 which worked among the flowers in great numbers, in all cases 

 boring the corollas near the base from the outside. 



In connection with this fact, he said that among the scarlet 

 sages were a large number olthe i)ure while variety, but the bees 

 visited them precisely as they did the scarlets, going to either 

 indiscriminateh'. As bees usuall}' contrive to work on one kind 

 of flower only so long as there were plenty of that one kind, the 

 fact of their working on these two colors at once showed that 

 they did not make use of color only as a guide to the flowers, but 

 that they had intelligence enough to know the Saloia splendejis 

 as well as we would, by experience, no matter under what color 

 the species might be rei)resentcd ; and the experiments we read 

 of, in which the bees failed to make use of a fresh flower when its 

 corolla was taken away, merely showed that the bee was not act- 

 ing from an instinctive attraction by color, but had been deceived 

 into the idea that the flower had faded awa}'. Insects had evi- 

 dently not only instinct, but were able to exercise a judgment 

 created by experience. In a recent numlier of Nature., he said it 

 was on record that a day moth, a i)/aeroj7/ossum,made an attempt 

 to extract honey from the artificial flowers on a lady's bonnet, 

 but it was so well able to profit by experience as not to make the 

 attempt a second time. 



He illustrated on the black-board the peculiar lever-like append- 

 ages or false anthers in Saloia, and said that these had been looked 

 on as special arrangements for cross fertilization. When a bee 




1818.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 11 



entered it lifted the lever, and forced the true anther on the back 

 of the insect, which thus carried pollen to another flower to be 

 brushed against the stigma on entering. It was clear that, liow- 

 ever reasonable this seemed hypothetically, it could have little 

 foundation in fact in tliese long-tubed Saloias. An insect of the 

 honey-bee size could not enter, and a smaller one that could, 

 would not be large enough to reach tiie stigmas which were high 

 up at the apex of the arch of the corolla. Only long-tongued 

 moths conld extract honey bj- way of the mouth ; but as they 

 thrust onl}' their tongues into the flowers, keeping their bodies 

 outside, the lever-like adaptation to the bodies of insects, as sug- 

 gested by the prevailing hypothesis, had no force. 



Cerebral Convolutions of the Negro Brain. — Dr. A. J. Parker 

 remarked that as 3'et our knowledge of the cerebral convolutions 

 in the various races is very scanty. Gratiolet, Marshall, and a 

 few other investigators, have pul)lished descriptions of single 

 brains, and have pointed out certain pecidiarities existing in 

 them. Beyond this, however, little lias been done, and the ob- 

 ject of the present communication is to direct attention to some 

 of the principal points noticed in the stud}' of thirteen negro 

 brains, and one mulatto. 



Gratiolet, in his studies of the brain of the Hottentot Yenus, 

 noticed that in the normal position of the brain, the island of 

 Reil was distinctly visible. Marshall afterwards found the same 

 peculiarity in the brain of a Bushwoman, and suggests the proba- 

 bility that it is a characteristic of the Bosjes brain ; citing the 

 opinion of G. Cuvier that the Hottentot Yenus was really a Bush- 

 woman, and not a Hottentot. In studying the negro brain as it 

 presents itself in this country. Dr. Parker had found the same 

 condition well marked in nine cases, and perceptible in the re- 

 maining four. It would thus seem to be characteristic of the 

 race rather than of the Bosjes alone. In the brain of a mulatto, 

 the convolutions of which were exceedingly well developed, the 

 same peculiarity was found, altliough not to so marked an extent 

 as in tlie negro. Since it is thus capable of being transmitted 

 when the race is crossed witli anotlier, it would appear to be a 

 definite and strongly marked peculiarity. Allhougli this condi- 

 tion of the negro brain is fatal in its character, as was noted by 

 Gratiolet and Marshall, it is not found in the adult brain of any 

 monkey tlius far described. 



The S3lvian fissure, also, presents certain characteristics. In 

 the wliite, this fissure ascends obliquely upwards and backwards. 

 In the Busiiwoman, Marshall found tliat it assumed at its ante- 

 rior portion a liorizontal direction, the posterior portion taking a 

 direction nearly perpendicular to this. He also points out the 

 same peculiarit}' in tlie figure given b}' Gratiolet of the Hottentot 

 Yenus. This peculiarity of the Sylvian fissure was also found in 




12 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1878. 



the ncijro lirains which Dr. rarkcr hiid studied. In the niiihitto 

 it i)iesc'iit('<l thesaiiU! apju-araiice as in the while hiaiii. The Un;;th 

 of the Sylvian fissure als<j varies, as was noted ii}' Marshall in 

 the brain of the Jhishwonian. 



Average length of Sylvian fissure in 10 while brains = 3§ in. 

 " " " " in i;^ n<'gro brains = i{ in. 



Length of S^'lvian fissure in mulatto = 3.| in. 



The frontal convolutions, as a rule, are simpler and better 

 marked in llie negro than in the white. Gratiolet states that in 

 the European the lower frontal convolution is the most cleaily 

 defined, while the upper and middle more often run into each 

 other. In the IJushman, he saj's, on the contrary, the ui)per re- 

 mains independent, while the middle and lower hlend. In the 

 negro brains of this country, this does not seem to be the case — 

 at least in those which had been examined, the lower frontal con- 

 volution seemed to be as well defined as the upper. 



The fissure of Rolando, or central tissure, is simpler, straightor, 

 and less undulating in its course in the negro than in the white, 

 and, coiise(iuently, the anterior and posterior central convolutions 

 partake of the same character. 



The interparietal fissure is present in the apes as a distinctly 

 marked typieal fissure, but in man, as exemi)lified b}' the white 

 race, it is so broken up b3' bridging convolutions that its exist- 

 ence as a distinct fissure was not recognized until IJSGG, when its 

 typical character was first pointed out by Turner, who gave to it 

 the above name. It has been recognized as an important and 

 typical fissure onl}^ by Pansch and Eeker. Bischoff" states that 

 it is present in the foetus, and is t3'pical ; but that in the adult 

 brain it does not present the characters given to it by Turner. 



In Dr. Parker's studies of the white brain he had always been 

 able to clearly distinguish this fissure. It is generally inter- 

 rupted in its course by tAvo or three bridging convolutions. In 

 the negro, however, this fissure was found remarkably well de- 

 veloped, and much less tortuous than in the white. In five 

 instances it was found entirely distinct, and not bridged over 

 at any point, presenting in every respect the same appearance 

 as found in the higher apes, except that its direction was more 

 curved than in the latter. In six cases onl}' one bridging con- 

 volution existed, and, in the remaining two, one well developed 

 and another imperfectly developed were found. In the mulatto 

 this fissure was continuous throughout its course, but much more 

 undulating and tortuous than in the negro. A study of negro 

 brains shows a distinctl3^ ape-like character in regard to this fis- 

 sure, and at the same time would seem to prove that it is present 

 in the adult human brain as a perfect!}' typical fissure. 



The superior and inferior parietal convolutions are simpler and 

 less marked with secondary fissures in the negro than in the 

 white. The anterior division of the inferior parietal convolution 




1878] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 13 



which lie? between the lower end of the posterior central convolu- 

 tion and the upper end of the fissure of Sylvius, the supra-mar- 

 ginal loi)ule of Gratiolet, was described by him as peculiar to the 

 human brain. It is, however, represented in the brain of the 

 apes, although not ex]^anded and developed into a lobule, as it is 

 in man. A careful stud^' of the negro l)rains at his disposal, had 

 sliown that even this excess of development is not absolutely 

 characteristic of the human brain. In one negro brain the photo- 

 ofrapli of which was presented, tliis lobule is entirely absent, the 

 brain showing a deficienc}^ in this region greater in proportion 

 than is found in the apes. The interparietal fissure runs directly 

 into the upper end of the Sylvian, their place of union being di- 

 rectly back of the posterior central convolution ; consequently 

 there is absolutely no supra-marginal lobule developed. In the 

 brain of the Bushwoman described by Marshall this lobule was 

 present, relatively well developed, although smaller, according to 

 liiis autlior, than is found in the European. It was marked by 

 several secondary sulci. It was, however, better developed tlian 

 in the Hottentot Venus, being larger, more complex, and project- 

 ing to a greater extent over the Sylvian fissure. In the brain 

 al)Ove described it was, therefore, more ape-like than in eitlier the 

 Bushwoman or Hottentot Venus. In tiie remaining negro brains 

 examined, this lobule presented itself in variously developed con- 

 ditions. In two cases it was small, and not marked by any 

 secondary fissures. The remaining brains approached more to- 

 wards the condition as found in the wliite race, but were all less 

 complex and smaller than is the case in the latter. In the mu- 

 latto it was as well developed as is ordinarily found in the white. 

 He then passed to the consideration of the occipital lobe, and 

 here the negro brain displays its ape-like peculiarities to a greater 

 extent than in any other portion of the cerel)ral surface. This 

 lobe, as it is found represented in the apes, is compa'-atively sim- 

 ple. It is separated from the parietal lobe by a well-marked 

 transverse fissure, the so-called perpendicular fissure; the mesial 

 portion, corresponding to the fissure known in the human brain 

 as the parieto-occipital, is called the internal perpendicular, while 

 tlie lateral portion is known as the external perpendicular fissure. 

 In most of the monkeys, such as Cebus, C'ynocephalus, Gercopi- 

 thecus^ Macacus^ etC:, these two fissures are continuous; but in 

 man and the higher apes, such as the Orang, Chimpanzee, etc., 

 they are separated into two distinct fissures by the development 

 of a bridging convolution, the so-called superior external transi- 

 tion or connecting convolution, the pli de passage superieur ex- 

 lerne of Gratiolet. The same condition is also found in Aleles 

 and Hylohates. In man this convolution is largely developed, 

 and alters, to a great extent, the appearance of this region as 

 found in tlie apes. Tiiis convolution he had found invariably 

 smaller, less developed, and simpler in the negro than in the 




14 PKOCKKDINGS OF THE ACADKMY OF [1878. 



white. In one nou;ro brniii it was so imporfectly developed tliat 

 the internal and external perpendieidar fissures were superlieially 

 continnons. 'Vhv lissnre cori'esponding to the external |»erpen- 

 (liculnr is also l)etter developed in the nes^ro. 



It has been asserted that the separation of the parieto-oceipital 

 fissure on the mesial surfaee from th(! ealearine, by means of the 

 lower internal eonneetin<.j eonvolution (/ili de jjassar/e infi'ricnr 

 inlcrui% (Jr.), is eliaraeteristie of the ape as distinjjiiished from the 

 human brain. HuxK'v lias shown, however, that in the brain of 

 Alelcx ;;fl»?.srus tlie parietooecipital and ealearine join each otiier; 

 and !>iseho(f has remarked the same cireumstanee as existing iu 

 J/i/lohalcs. in all otiier monke3S and apes, as far as present ob- 

 servation extends, the parieto-oceipital is separated from the eal- 

 earine by this convolution. ]?ischotf states that this eonvolution 

 is always present in man, but is deeply sunk within the depths of 

 the parieto-oceipital fissure. Eeker also describes this as repre-- 

 sented in man as a deeply concealed convolution under the name 

 of the gyrus cuvei. That this entering of the i)arieto-oeeipital 

 into the ealearine is not a characteristic alwaA's found in tiie l)rain 

 of man was shown by the photograph of a negro l)rain, wliii-h 

 showed this convolution as well developed as it is in tlie apes, 

 presenting a width of nearly one-quarter inch superficially, and 

 separating completely the i>arieto-occij)ital from the ealearine. 

 This is the lirst human brain in which this complete separation 

 has been i)ointed out. It is the mesial surface of the same brain 

 in which was noticed the complete absence of the supra-marginal 

 lobule, and these tvvo points, and the large and simply marked 

 occipital lobes, in connection with numerous other points, stamjis 

 this brain as the most ape-like of human brains 3et described, it 

 is the brain of an adult male negro about twenty-two years old. 

 In another case the same condition was found, only less developed. 

 It is an interesting fact, that these ape-like peculiarities occurred 

 almost entirely on the right side of the brain, the left hemisphere 

 resemliling more nearly the white brain than the right. In the 

 negro it would also appear that there is less departure from sym- 

 metry on the two sides of the brain than in the white. 



Gratiolet states that the simplicity of tlie brain of the Hotten- 

 tot A'enus is more marked than in any normal European brain he 

 has seen, and Marshall expresses the same opinion in respect to 

 the brain of the Bushwoman. Dr. Parker's experience in studying 

 the negro brain as it jtresents itself in this country had le<i him 

 to the same conclusion, and he believed that the negro brain bears 

 an unmistakably nearer relation to the ape type than does the 

 white. It is interesting to note that in just tliose peculiarities 

 which have been thought to distinguish the human brain from 

 tiiat of the ape, the negro brain presents itself as offering note- 

 worthy exceptions; for instance, the absence of the supiamar- 

 ginal lobule or its imperfect development, the presence of the 




1878.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 15 



inferior internal connecting or bridging convolution visible super- 

 fici.ally, and completely separating the parieto-oecipital from the 

 calcarine, etc. 



January 22. 

 The President, Dr. Rusciienberger, in the chair. 

 Thirty-six members present. 

 The death of Edward Tatnall, Jr., was announced. 



HahiU and Intelligence of Vespa maculata. — Mr. Thomas Mee- 

 HAN exhibited young branches of Fraxinus excelsior^ and of the 

 common lilac, which had been stripped of their bark during the 

 summer by the large yellow hornet. The insects had been care- 

 fully watched at the work. They visited these trees in large num- 

 bers, and carried the strips of bark away in their mouths. For 

 what purpose they used the bark could not well be ascertained. 

 It was generally supposed that they collected the matter from 

 which their huge nests of pai)er-like material were made, from 

 fences and other dead woody matter. He thought it remarkable 

 that the insect should collect from plants of the same natural oi-der 

 only, as far as careful examination of other plants in the vicinity 

 could decide. This hornet, he observed, was gifted with great intelli- 

 gence ; on an occasion he had observed one with a summer locust, 

 several times its own size, endeavoring to rise with it from the 

 ground and fly away, but failed from tiie great weight of the 

 locust. It then walked with its prey about thirty feet to a tall 

 majjle, which it ascended to the top, and then flew off with its 

 burden in a horizontal direction. There was more than instinct 

 in tills act. There was reasoniug on certain facts and judgment 

 accordingly, and the insect's juilgment had proved correct. 



January 29. 



The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 



Forty-seven members present. 



A paper, entitled " On the Association of Grossularite, Zoisite, 

 Heulandite., and Leidyite, a wqw Species," by Geo. A. Koenig, 

 was presented for publication. 



The Mode of Recognition among Antn. — The following state- 

 ments were made by Mr. McCooK of certain tentative experiments 

 upon two species of ants, as to the mode of recognizing each other, 




16 PHUCKKDINaS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1878. 



and distinguisliinjr fellow formit-ariaiis from congeners of alien 

 nests. 



Every dweller within town walls is familiar with the little crea- 

 tures pojjidarly known (in some quarters at least) as the "pave- 

 ment ants," and known in myrmecology under the name of Teti-a- 

 vioritim Ccvspilnm. Karly in the spring, as soon as the season 

 has gathered a comfortable degree of warmth, these insects are 

 seen issuing from the gravel or soil of gnrdcn walks, or from the 

 earthen seam that hinds together the hricks of the pavement. 

 Around the openings whence the ants issue, are seen small circu- 

 lar mounds of sand or soil whi(;h have been accumulated by the 

 out-bringing, one l)y one, of the particles of earth. But the chief 

 notoriet}' of these ants, not uidike their felh^w-creatnres of the 

 genus homo, is due to their martial instincts. Hundreds, even 

 thousands, of them are often seen waging battle with great ferocity 

 and persistence. One battle, which was noted close by the wall, 

 within the inclosure of a church on Broad Street and Penn 

 Square, was prolonged for a period of two weeks and several 

 days. At least the same spot, during that period, whenever ob- 

 served, showed ahvnys the same phenomena of a battle-field, the 

 contestants of which vvere apparently the same. Two points of 

 great interest have arisen concerning these Amazonian emmets — 

 for they are verital)le Amnzons, the warriors being composed 

 wholly of the uorkers or nenlei's, who are undeveloped females. 



First, why do they fight at all ? They are of one species, ap- 

 parently of one formicary or nest. The very first act upon issu- 

 ing from the winter quarters is to engage in this war, which is 

 often well nigh a war of extermination on iioth side^. Frequently 

 throughout the season these hostilities are renewed. If tlie indi- 

 viduals be of one formicary, we may conjecture that this is nature's 

 mode of either distributing the species from the home-centre, by 

 causing the worsted party to emigrate; or, if the comiiatants be of 

 separate, adjoining communities, a sort of emmetonian Malthu- 

 sianism (if one may coin such a jihrase), by which the surplus 

 population is reduced and kept within due ])ounds, much to the 

 future comfort of the survivois, and more to the satisfaction of 

 man. This is, of course, only conjecture. 



A second question arises, even more interesting and more per- 

 plexing, viz.. How do the coml)atants recognize friend from foe ? 

 They are all alike — indeed more alike than " peas in a pod," as 

 the proverb goes. Take a group of combatants into the hand, 

 put them under a magnifier; the most careful observer will not 

 note the slightest difference between the individuals of the two 

 factions. Yet they do infallil)ly distinguish between the i)arties, 

 recognizing at once members of their own formicar}- and with 

 etpial certainty those of the enemy. While watching an ant 

 battle, we will frequently observe individuals running to and fro, 

 challenging all whom they meet b}' their antennae, wliich are kept 




ISTS.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. lY 



in a continual motion, the tips describing parabola and circles. 

 At the meeting these organs touch and embrace the face ; if the 

 parties be friends tlie}^ pass on, if foes they straightway interlock 

 mandibles and " fall to." Here one will see man}' scores of ants 

 struggling together in a heap that is chaos to mortal eyes, but 

 which seems to the emmet senses to present no difficulties in the 

 way of recognition. Smaller groups are scattered over the battle- 

 field ; tiiese are often aggregated as follows: two individuals in 

 conflict are joined by a third, who applies her antennae, distinguishes 

 the enemy, and falls upon her. A fourth, fifth, many other ants, 

 will sometimes thus be found massed upon one poor warrior, who 

 is literally being torn limb from limb. Other groups are com- 

 posed of several members of one faction and many of another. 

 There are frequent instances of single combats, particular!}' on 

 the margin of tiie battle-field, but toward the centre of conflict it ap- 

 pears to be quite the fixed i)abit of these groups to be composed 

 as above. Evidently, anything like chivalry or ''fair play" is 

 rejected from tlie code of emmet honor. In all these cases, how- 

 ever, the power of recognition never seems for a moment to waver 

 or even hesitate. 



It occurred to Mr. McCook that this recognition was based 

 upon a certain odor which in different degrees of inlensify is 

 emitted by the respective factions. Or, which seems less likel}'^, 

 upon the presence in the individuals of tlie combatants of tivo dis- 

 tinct odors. This degree of odor, or ditterence in odors, he sup- 

 posed might be dependent upon some temporary difference in the 

 physical condition, age, or environment of tiie antagonists. Sup- 

 posing that there were any basis of truth in this tlieory, it further 

 occurred to liim that the jjresence of an artificial and alien per- 

 fume of sufficient strength to neutralize the distinctive animal 

 odors, or degrees of odor, and environ tlie combatants with a for- 

 eign and common odor, would have the tendency to confuse the 

 ants and disturb or destroy their power of recognition. In which 

 case he conjectured that the result might be their pacification and 

 reconciliation. He therefore made the following tests: — 



First, he collected a number of combatants from a battle being 

 fought upon a flower-border, close to a fence, at his residence, and 

 placed them together in a glass jar upon some soil. He shook 

 the jar quite vigorously several times, so that, if i)ossible, the me- 

 chanieal agitation might se|)arate the combatants. The ants 

 emerged from the soil to continue or to recommence their figiit. 

 When the surface of the earth was well covered with them, and 

 the battle was again at its height, he introduced into the jar a 

 pellet of i)aper saturated with cologne water. The effect was in- 

 stantaneous. The ants showed no signs of pain, displeasure, or 

 intoxication. Indeed, some ran freely over the paper. But in a 

 very few seconds the warriors had unclasped mandibles, released 

 their hold of enemies' legs, antennce, and bodies, and after a uio- 




18 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [ISTS. 



nit'iiliirv ooiiftisioii l»('u;:iii to Ixirrow <i:ill(.'ri('s in tlieonrtli with the 

 utmost harmony. On the part of some tliere was the appcaiance 

 of" thus esc'a|)injj from the artificial odor ; but there was no renewal 

 of tlie battle. The quondam foes dwelt to-jjether for several days 

 in al)solute unity and fraternity, amieably feetling. burrowing, and 

 buihliui;. Thus the perfume of the cologne proved an eminent 

 ])acilicator of the contending emmets, and so far verified the 

 tiieory. 



A second experiment was tried in another glass jar, with like 

 result. Tiiere was one exoe|)tion, two ants continuing to fi^ht 

 after the cologne had been introduced. After ch)ser examination 

 Mr. M('('Ool{ found that one of them was nearly dead, and was 

 holding fast an antenna of iier enemy with a death grip, frcnn which 

 escape was impossible. Tiire(? days after tiiis he decantc<l the 

 contents of tiiis jar, ants and soil, into jar No. 1, and tiie two par- 

 ties fraternized completely. 



A third experiment was made. A large number of the warring 

 ants had been lifted into a box, partly filled with soil, which com- 

 municated by a glass tube with a smaller box. The larger box 

 was al)OUt ten inches long and eight inches in depth and width ; 

 both boxes had sliding glass covers. The original ])urpose was 

 to ()l)serve the battle at leisure, determine how long the creatures 

 would fight, and also if eventually the parties miglit not separate 

 and the defeated retreat to the smaller box. However, he con- 

 cluded to follow U]) the above observations, and abandoning his 

 first pni'pose, introduced cologne as befoi'e into that end of the 

 box in which the combatants were principally engaged. The same 

 effect followed. In less than two minutes everj' sign of hostility 

 had ceased, except in the case of two pairs, in that end of the 

 box, and of one small group and two single combatants in the op- 

 posite end. The two pairs proved to be in conditions similar to 

 the exception al)ove noted, and a small pellet of perfumed paper 

 dropped in the opposite end of the box, dispersed the warrio'-s 

 there. Previous to this, occasional stragglers had passed along 

 the connecting glass tube into the smaller box. Most of them 

 seemed to be of one faction, only one of the opposition having 

 entered, upon whom six or eight ants were expending their wratli. 

 This was the only remaining centre of strife, when Mr. McCook 

 replaced ants and earth upon their native territory. The battle 

 was continuing there, between greatly (diminished numbers of 

 course, after the removal of the large battalions into the box, but 

 the application of a feather dipped in cologne to the neighbor- 

 hood of the warriors caused the instant cessation of controversy. 

 The next day there were no ants found upon the surface, but dig- 

 ging two inches under ground, close by the fence, he observed a 

 few. The battle was evidently over. There had been in the 

 mean time a great change of temperature, from 96° Fahr. to 47°, 

 and this ma}^ have had some effect in sending the ants under- 

 ground. 




1878.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 19 



Attention was next clirectod to ouv large Pennsylvania Car- 

 penter ant {Camponolus Pennsyivanicus)^ and 'a series of ex[)eri- 

 nients made of the same nature as the above. In his study was 

 an artificial formicary of those insects, which had been sent to 

 him from the Allegheu}^ Mountains. The ants had been taken 

 from a branch of an oak tree in mid-winter, and were sent frozen 

 up within a section of the formicary. This section was about one 

 foot in length and seven inches in diameter. The most of the 

 ants were removed from the nest and placed in a glass bottle, to 

 all appearance quite dead. On entering his study the following 

 morning, Mr. McCook was surprised to find that the ants had 

 revived in the heat of the room, had cut a clean tubular hole 

 through the cork, and were crawling over the top and sides of the 

 bottle, just ready for an emigration. They were deposited in a 

 large glass jar, and were the subjects of various experiments, until 

 the death of the queen, eight months thereafter. Among these 

 Avere the following, by way of further testing the theory above 

 stated concerning the recognition of alien ants. First, Mr. Mc- 

 Cook placed in the formicary, whicii at the time consisted of a 

 piece of the original brancli-nest planted upon several inches of 

 soil, some individuals of the same species taken from the trees 

 in Logan Square, Philadelphia. These were instantly attacked, 

 and were beheaded, that being the favorite mode of dealing with 

 enemies among these Penns^dvania Camponoti. Individuals (still 

 alien but of the same species) were then thoroughly covered with 

 the perfume of cologne and put into the formicary. They, too, 

 suffered decapitation. Individuals were now taken from members 

 of tlie formicary, subjected to the cologne fumigation, and restored 

 to the nest. They were welcomed iiome unharmed. The whole 

 formicary was then strongly perfumed by means of cotton pellets 

 soaked in cologne, and alien ants of the same species (from Logan 

 Square), which had been treated in the same way, were put into 

 the midst of their mountain congeners. The result which had fol- 

 lowed in the previous experiments, appeared once more. The 

 intruders were not attacked with quite the same pi'omptness, but 

 in the end they were l)rought to the mandiblar guillotine, and 

 their carcasses deposited in or rather on the cemetery which these 

 insects are nearly always sure to establish when there are 

 numerous deaths among them or on their premises. Thus the 

 results of these experiments upon the mode of recognition among 

 ants of G. Pennsylvaniciii^, point to a conclusion directly the re- 

 verse of that indicated by similar observations with Telramorhnn 

 ccespitum. Mr. McCook hopes when a favorable opportunity 

 again presents to continue this line of observations. Tiie results 

 are put on record, inconclusive as thej^ appear, not only because 

 they seem to be in themselves interesting and valuable, but in 

 order to stimulate inquirj' among others in the same direction, 

 and to invite suggestions and information which other observers 

 may be able to make. 




20 PROCEEDINGS OF TI!E ACADEMY OP [1878. 



Dr. C. X. Peircc was cU'cUmI a inoinber of Ihc Council in place of 

 Dr. It. S. Kendcnlinc elected Curator. 



Messrs. S. Kislicr Corlies and ('larence S. IJement were elected 

 members of the Finance Committee. 



Griflltli E. Abliot, George Wolf Ilolstein, Frank II. Mosen- 

 frarten, John K. "\'alentine, James Ifnncker, Albert H. Smith, 

 M.D., .John A. Uyiler, and Charlotte Uhlen Olsen, M.D., were 

 elected memljers. 



The following were elected Correspondents: John McCrady of 

 Sewanee, Tenn., Charles T. Minot of Jvoslindale, Mass., Henry 

 Hicks of London, J. W. Hulke of London, Thomas Belt of Lon- 

 don, 11. G. Seeley of London, W. T. Thistleton Dyer of London, 

 Archibald Geikic of Edinburgh, James Geikie of Edinburgh, 

 Charles Barrois of Lille, M. E. Jannettaz of Paris, Emil Sauvage 

 of J*aris, Ch. Velain of Paris, Edmond Pellat of Paris. IL Filhol 

 of Paris, Michael Yacek of Vienna, and Karl von Seebach of Got- 

 tiniren. 



The following papers were ordered to be printed : — 




1818.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 21 



NOTES ON THE NATURAL HISTORY OF FORT MACON. N. C, AND 



VICINITY. (No. 4.) 



BY DR. ELLIOTT COUES AND DR. H. C. YARROW. 



When the present series of papers was projected, it was intended 

 that the}- should give a full account of the zoology of the localit}', 

 as studied by the writers during their successive residence at Fort 

 Macon. Dr. Coues was Post-Surgeon at the Fort during 1869 and 

 1870, being succeeded in the winter of 1870-71 by Dr. Yarrow, 

 who took up the work immediately and continued it until 1872. 



Dr. Coues has already' publislied two papers in these Proceed- 

 ings (1871, pp. 12-49, and pp. 120-148), one on the Mammals, 

 Birds, and Reptiles, the other on various Invertebrates, chiefly 

 Mollusks. More recently, Dr. Yarrow has published (1877, pp. 

 203-218) a third paper, on the Fishes, giving the joint results of 

 our respective collections — though it should be added that the 

 observations are entirely- those made b}'^ Dr. Yarrow, i)e having 

 been furnished by Dr. Coues with simplj' a list of the species col- 

 lected by the latter, as identified by Mr. F. W. Putnam, of Salem. 



The present paper. No. 4 of the series, supplies man}'^ omissions 

 in the first article, on the Mammals, Birds, and Reptiles — more 

 particularly the latter. The series of papers may be completed 

 by another communication, supplementing Dr. Coues's article on 

 the Invertebrates (No. 2) witli the results of Dr. Yarrow's more 

 extended observations on several classes of the lower animals. 



The writers are indebted to Prof. E. D. Cope, for identification 

 of some of the Reptilia and Batruchia given in the present article. 



I. MAMMALS. 



IJrsus americanus, PalL 

 Black Bear. 



Common on the mainland near Fort Macon ; and is also found 

 abundantly in a large marshy piece of ground not far from Croa- 

 tan, a station on the North Carolina Railroad. Numbers are taken 

 during the fall and spring in large iron spring traps, their meat 

 and fur finding a ready market at New Berne, N. C. Some skins 

 seen show small patches of light grizzled fur resembling somewhat 

 that occasionally seen in specimens of U. americanus from the 

 Rocky Mountains. 




22 PROCKKniNOK OF TIIE ACAI'KMY OF [1878. 



Delphinus globiceps, Ciivier. 



Hliuk-lhli. J{()uii(l-li('ii(l (JriinipUH. 



IJut a single specimen observed, this having been taken at a 

 liorpoise-fi.shing on Siiackleford bunks, six miles from Fort Miicon. 

 Tlie fishermen stated that it was rarely seen or captured. 



Vespertilio (Vesperus) fuscus, I'- Je IBenv. 

 iJnjwn IJiit. 

 Does not occur abundantly, a few only being seen near wooded 

 portions of Bogne banks. 



Sciuropterus volucella (Pall.), Geoff. 

 Flyiii;,' Squirrel. 



This species is quite common in the woods in the southern ex- 



trerait}' of Bogue banks, and is also found in similar localities on 



the mainland. 



Tamias striatus (L ), Bd. 

 Chipimuik. 



Very common on islands and mainland. 



Mephitis mephitica (Shaw), Bd. 

 CoiniiKHi Skunk. 



Not abundant on the islands, l)ut exticmely common on the 

 adjoining mainland. No case heard of in tiiis locality regarding 

 the rabies which is occasioned by the bite of its western congener. 



II. BIRDS. 



Ampelis cedrorum (V.), Bd. 

 C\'il;irl)ird. 



Abundant in wooded portions of the islands, more so on main- 

 land. 



Hylotomuspileatus (L.), Bd, 



Pileated Woodpecker. Woodcock. 



Common in woods of islands and mainland; several specimens 

 secured. 



Campephilus principalis (L.), Gray. 

 Ivory-billed Woodpecker. 



Information was received from an apparently respectable source 

 of the occurrence of this species, whose appearance was described 

 witli tolerable exactness, but the statement is given for vrhat it 

 may be worth, no specimen having been seen. 




1878.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 23 



Melanerpes erythrocephalus (L ), Sw. 

 Ked-headed Woodpecker. 

 Quite common in woods, especially at Ilarker's Island, eight 

 miles northeast from Fort Macon, This island is also celebrated 

 for the numbers of mocking birds found there. 



Antrostomus vociferus (Wils.), Cp. 

 Wbippoorwill. 



Occasional; but few seen. 



Coccygus americanus (L. ), Bp. 

 Yellow-billed Cuckoo. 



Occasional. 



Cygnus americanus, Sharpl. 

 American Swau. 



A single specimen was seen by Dr. Yarrow, Dec. 18, 1811, near 

 Harker's Island, but the people of the vicinity state, the species 

 is not uncommon. This individual was noticed swimming in the 

 midst of an enormous "raft" of red-head ducks {Faligula ferina 

 americana). 



Fuligula vallisneria (Wils.), Steph. 

 Canvas-back Duck. 



This species has been observed but once, four individuals having 

 been noticed near Harker's Island, but we are informed it is quite 

 common in the vicinity of Cape Lookout, fifteen miles from Fort 

 Macon. The flesh, according to our informant, has not the rich- 

 ness of flavor which characterizes the Canvas-back of the Chesa- 

 peake. 



Oedemia fusca (L.), Sw. 

 Velvet Scoter. 



Occasional, few having been observed. 



Mergus cucullatus, L. 

 Hooded Merganser. 



Abundant in Bogue and Cove Sounds. 



Mergulus alle (L.), V. 

 Sea Dove. 



The occurrence of this species so far south is interesting. It is 

 occasionally found on tiie beach after severe storms. The first 

 specimen observed was secured in December, 18T1, and otiiers 

 were subsequently taken. A number of the older residents of the 




24 I'ROCEEDlNdS OF TIIK ACADEMY OF [1818. 



locality, to whom the specimens were nhowii, stated that tiicy had 

 never seen or heard of such a bird previously. 



III. hi;ptim:s. 



TESTUDINATA. 



Thalassochelys caouana, Linn. 

 L()i?.i,^(rlii'ad Tiullc 



Extremely numerous; numbers are taken in peculiar nets set 

 in Cove Sound. 



Aspidonectes ferox, Scliw. 

 S(iri-slicllc(l Snapper. 



Toleralily comuiou in fresh-water streams of mainland. 



Chelydra serpentina, Linn. 



tSiiappiiii;' Tiirllo. 



Common in muddy creeks of mainland. 



Cistudo clausa (Omelin), Cope. 

 Box Turtle. 



Common in woods of islands and mainland. 

 Although a number of other species of Testudinata were 

 observed, none were collected or identified. 



SAURIA. 



Alligator mississippiensis, Gmy. 

 Alligator. 



In a former paper, l\y Dr. Cones, this reptile is stated " to be of 

 common and regular occurrence in the adjoining swamps of the 

 mainland," but since tiie publication of this fact, the species has 

 been discovered to be quite common in the fresh-water ponds of 

 the wooded portion of Bogue banks, within six or seven miles of 

 Fort Macon. A number of these ponds are to be found, and in 

 them numbers of alligators, for which reason the residents of the 

 island fear to l)athe in their waters. In the latter part of Decem- 

 l)er, 1871, Dr. Yarrow procured a full grown female, eight feet long, 

 wilh six or eight of her young. 



Anolis principalis (Linn.), Holbr. 



Green Lizard. Scorpion. Chameleon. 



This species abounds near Fort Macon and upon the mainland, 

 frequenting generally the wooded portions, and ma}'^ readily be 

 caught and partially tamed, Dr. Yarrow having been able to keep 




1878.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 25 



tifteeii individuals over eiglit months in a common box, the bottom 

 and sides being lined with green sods, the top covered with a pane 

 of glass. These little reptiles became domesticated to such an 

 extent as to feed from the hand when flies or ants were offered, 

 and would also take a drop of water in the same manner. Unfor- 

 tunately a scarcit}' of flies and ants necessitated a diet of grass- 

 hoppers, which produced diarrhoea, and all the specimens perished 

 from this cause. 



The natives of the "banks" have a great dread of these harmless 

 and beautiful creatures, calling them "scorpions," and it requires 

 considerable persuasion to induce them to touch one. 



Their habits are somewhat peculiar, and were observed during 

 their captivity with great care. In the act of copulation the male 

 mounts the back of the female and entwines his tail with hers, and 

 then seizes hold of tlie skin at the back of her neck; in this posi- 

 tion they will remain for hours, apjiarently asleep, and in awaken- 

 ing resume the procreative act. During the day they are of a 

 vivid green color, but as night or darkness approaches, they lose 

 the bright green color, which becomes a rusty -brown, this change 

 taking place gradually in spots and patches. This loss of bright 

 color is also produced b}' cloudy weather. This species fights 

 fiercely witli C aemidoph orus Q-lineatus, and invariably conquers 

 even with opponents of twice their size. Under the influence of 

 anger the under part of the neck is puffed out, and the green color 

 is then extremely bright. They shed tlieir skins frequently during 

 confinement, and cease taking food during this period, but, unlike 

 the serpent, while undergoing this process, their eyesight is not 

 aff"ected. In one individual, who had suffered the loss of a portion 

 of his tail — a full inch and a half — it was replaced by new growth 

 witliin six months. 



Oligosoma laterale, Say. 

 Ground Lizard. 



Common, both on island and mainland. Generally appears 



towards evening. 



Eumeces fasciatus, Linn. 

 Blue-tailed Lizard. 



Occasional!}' met with in wooded portions of Bogue banks. 




26 PIIOCEEDINGS OF THE ArAHEMY OP [1S78. 



OPHIDIA. 



Candisona miliaria, T/mn. 



Spotted Itattlcr. Ground Rattlesnake. 



A few indivi'ltials of tliis species are said to have been seen on 

 Bogne banks, none, however, oljserved or socnrcd by the writers, 

 but tliey are quite common on Sliackloford Ijanks, a few miles from 

 Fort ^fac'on. It has also been taken on the mainland. It is a 

 fact worthy of remark, that, while on IJogue banks, rattlesnakes 

 and moccasins are extremely abundant, this is the on!}- venomous 

 species found on the neighboring island of Shackleford. 



Ancistroden piscivorus, Lac. 

 Water ^loccasin. 



Very numerous in woods of Bogue banks and on the mainland 

 near wet and marshy i:)laces. Several specimens of enormous size 

 secured. They are deemed so formidable bA* the residents, that, 

 during the warm months of the 3'ear, no inducement will cause a 

 visit to certain localities where these reptiles "use." In this con- 

 nection it ma}-^ be mentioned that Dr. Yarrow veas informed by 

 several individuals, that both moccasins and rattlesnakes had been 

 seen a number of times swimming from the mainland to Bogue 

 Island. 



Ophibolus getulus sayi, Ilolbrook. 



King Snake. Corn Snake. Thunder Snake. 



Yery common on islands and on mainland. Tliis serpent is 

 called "king snake" by the residents, who state that it frequently 

 destroys both rattlesnakes and moccasins, eating its victims after 

 the conflict is over, and for this reason it is held in great esteem 

 and carefully protected. The fight which takes place between 

 Grolatus and Ophibolus has been seen by several persons, and 

 was described as follows: So soon as the rattlesnake sees his 

 enem}', he endeavors to escape, if possible, and failing to effect 

 his retreat, instantly tlirows his body into coils. The king snake 

 approaches swiftly, and moves around the rattlesnake in a circle, 

 gradually drawing nearer and nearer, the rattlesnake following 

 his motion with his head. This circular movement of his antago- 

 nist appears, finally, to disconcert him, for after a time it is noticed 

 his movements are less energetic, and finality, in an unguarded 

 moment, Ophibolus throws himself with lightning rai)idit3' upon 

 him and chokes him to death, pulls his body apart, and devours 




1878.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PIIILADEIiPHTA. 2*7 



him. In captivit^y they are very gentle, and it requires vevy severe 

 provocation to induce one to bite. Several specimens which were 

 kept in a large box could not be induced to eat either mice, frogs, 

 or toads, but as several fine specimens of Ophiosaumis ventralis 

 (Daud.), kejDt in the same box, soon disappeared, it was easy to 

 account for the ^apparent want of appetite. In fact, a large male 

 was found in the act of devouring one of the " glass snakes." It 

 is believed that other species of Ophiboli, such as 0. doliafus 

 and trianguliis, live upon the islands as well as the mainland, but 

 none have been noticed. 



Cyclophis vernalis, De Kay. 

 Green Suake. 



This species is very common on the islands and mainland, and 

 accoi'ding to the writers' experience is, contrary to the generally 

 accepted statement, extremely irritable in captivity, biting fiercely 

 if disturbed. 



Coluber quadrivittatus, Holbrook. 

 Chickeu-suake. 



Yery numerous in woods of islands and mainland. 



Coluber guttatus, Linn. 

 Spotted Racer. 



Same remarks apply as to the preceding species. 



Heterodon platyrhinus, Latr. 



Sand Vipci-. Hog-nose Snake. PuflF Adder. Blowing Adder. 



Uncommon on islands, a single specimen only having been cap- 

 tured on Bogue banks, Nov. 1871. Thought to be poisonous by 

 residents. 



Dromicus flavilatus, Cope. 



This new and interesting species was discovered by Dr. H. C. 

 Yarrow, in the month of Nov. 1871, on Bogue banks some eight 

 miles south of Fort Macon, near marsh\' ground ; and a second 

 individual was seen some months later at the same place, but was 

 not captured, as it escaped into the water. The specimen was 

 forwarded alive to Prof. E. D. Cope, who at once declared it new 

 to science, and described it in the Proceedings of the Academy of 

 Natural Sciences of Phila. for 1871, p. 223. At this time some 

 doubts were expressed as to whether a second specimen would 

 ever be secured, but the diagnosis of this eminent herpetologist 

 has lately been confirmed hy the discover}' and capture of another 




28 PROCEEDINnS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1878. 



spccimon V)y Mrs. A. 1). Luiij^ron, of \'(jlusia, Florida, as recorded 

 in Am. Nat., Sept. ls77, p. OGG. 



IV. IJATRACIIIA. 

 Rana temporaria sylvatica (Linn.), Lee. 

 "Wood Frog. 

 Uncommon, but few having been seen on islands; more fre- 

 quently met with on mainland. 



Hyla versicolor, Le Conte. 

 Tree Frog or Toad. 



Yer}^ common on islands and mainland. 



Scaphiopus holbrooki, Harlan. 

 Solitary Spade Foot. 



A single specimen onl}- seen in woods of Bogue banks, but it 

 is doubtless found in the mainland. Jts nocturnal habits may 

 account for its api)arent scarcity. 



Plethoden cinereus erythronotus (Green), Cope. 

 Red-backed Salamander. Mud-puppj'. 



Common. Residents fear it, as the}' do most of the lizards and 

 salamanders. 



Amphiuma means, Linn. 



]Mud Snake. Congo-snake. 



This species occurs, without doubt, but it has not been noticed 

 b}' the writers. 



Siren lacertina, Linn. 



Has been occasionally observed by those engaged in digging 

 ditches. 




1878.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 29 



DESCRIPTIONS OF NEW SPECIES OF INVERTEBRATE FOSSILS FROM 

 THE CARBONIFEROUS AND UPPER SILURIAN ROCKS OF ILLINOIS 

 AND INDIANA. 



BY C. A. "WHITE, M.D. 



The fossils herein described are a part of an important collec- 

 tion that has been sent to me for study by Mi-. William Giule}^, 

 of Danville, Illinois, at which localit}- a large part of the collection 

 was made. Others were obtained by him, and by Mr. William 

 Gibson, from well-known localities, and some new ones, in both 

 the States mentioned in the title. The frequent discovery of new 

 forms and interesting types in districts, the fossils of which have 

 been studied b^^ so many able paleontologists, shows the extraor- 

 dinary profusion and varietj' of invertebrate life during paleozoic 

 time, in that great region of which the States of Illinois and In- 

 diana now form a part. Collections of this kind also suggest 

 manj' important questions to the philosophical paleontologist, 

 which, however, it is not the purpose of the author to discuss in 

 the present paper. 



RADIATA. 

 ACTINOZOA. 

 Genus BARYPHYLLUM, Edwards and Haime. 

 Baryphyllum fungulus, White. 



Corallum depressed, discoid ; inferior surface plain, or slightl}^ 

 concave, the principal, as well as some of the secondarj- septa 

 appearing through the obscurely developed epitheca ; periphery 

 moderately sharp, upper or calycular surface gentl}' convex; septal 

 fossett onl}' slightly developed ; septa numerous but distinct; tlie 

 principal septum opposite the septal fossett much stronger than 

 an}" of the others ; the other primary and secondary septa both of 

 about equal strength, sharp upon their edges and slightly sinuous 

 and irregular in their course. The irregular disposition of the 

 secondary septa, peculiar to the genus Baryphyllum, is well-marked 

 in this species. 



Diameter, 10 mm. ; height, 2^ ram. 



Only a single example of this species has been discovered, 




30 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1878. 



sliirht iinporfoctioiis of wliicli obscure the centre oftlie uiuler siir- 

 faee and also, in \K\vi, tlie septal fossett. 



This species diirers consjiieiiously from />. I'crneuiliiniuiu, Ed- 

 wards and Ilainic, the s|)ecies u[)on whieh the genus was founde<l, 

 and which was obtained from the Devonian of Perry County, 

 Tennessee (see Monog. Polypiers Fossiles des Terr. Paleozoiques), 

 in the much greater inunber of secondary septa as well as in other 

 details. 



Posiliou and locality. Shales of tlie age of the xSiagara Group, 

 township of Waldron, Shelby County, Indiana. 



ECHINODERMATA. 

 Genus PLATYCRINUS, Miller. 

 Platycrinus Bonoensis, AVhite. 



Body of the onlinary cup-shape, moderately deep : base shallow 

 basin-shaped, concave at the luiildle of the under side, or appearing 

 to be so in consequence of the presence of a moderately broad and 

 strong circular ridge surrounding the central portion, and not 

 extending outward quite to the borders of the base. First radial 

 pieces about as long as wide, having tlie shape and characteristics 

 of outline usual in cup-shaped bodies of this genus, scarcely more 

 convex than the general convexity' of the bod}- ; facet for the 

 articulation of the second radial pieces shallow; second radial 

 pieces very small, and transversely snbrhombic in outline. Upon 

 the second radial pieces the rays divide into two secondary rays, 

 the first piece of each articulating upon the second radial, but 

 also abutting, iu part, upon the upper border of the first radial. 

 The secondary ra3-s consist of two pieces each, upon the upper- 

 most of which they again divide, the outer arms of each division 

 from that point upward continuing simple to the end, while the 

 two inner subdivisions of the ra}- again divide into two arms each, 

 upon the second piece above first division, beyond which all the 

 arms of the whole ray, six iu number, are simple, making 30 arms 

 for the whole body. The arms are moderately slender, compara- 

 tively short, and for the first two or three pieces above the last 

 bifurcation they consist of single wedge-shaped pieces; but above 

 that tliey are made up of the usual double interlocking series of 

 pieces. The onl}' examples yet discovered have their arms so 

 closch" folded together that the pinules are hidden from view. 




1818.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 31 



With the arms thus folded the whole animal had an obovate form. 

 The stem, near the bod}^, is moderately strong, and slightly ellip- 

 tical in outline of transverse section. Surface nearl}' smooth, or 

 faintl}' corrugated. The part of the body above the calyx un- 

 known. 



Height of body to tlie top of the first radials, 8 mm. ; greatest 

 breadth, 10 mm.; height from the base of the body to the top of 

 the arms, 26 mm. 



This species resembles P. sequalis, Hall, as figured by ^leek and 

 Wortlien in Volume Y. of the Illinois Geological Reports; but it 

 differs from that species in having the base concave instead of 

 protuberant, in the i>roportions of tlie body, the comparative 

 shortness of the arms, and in wanting the peculiar geniculation of 

 the i)ieces of tlie double series composing tlie arms. It resembles 

 P. laevis, Miller, as figured by de Koninck and le Hon on jilate 

 VI. Recherches sur les Crinoides du Terraine Carbonifcre de la 

 Belgique, but it differs in having only two, instead of three 

 primary' radial pieces to each ray, and also in other details of 

 structure. 



P'oailion and locaJiiij. Subcarboniferous limestone, probably 

 equivalent with the Keokuk limestone, Rono, Lawrence Count}^, 

 Indiana. 



Genus SCAPHIOCRINUS, Hall. 

 Scaphiocriuus Gibsoni, White. 



Bod}' of medium size, or comparatively small ; calyx roughly 

 cup-shaped ; plates moderately thick and protuberant, especially 

 the radials and the first anal ; base small, nearl}' or quite covered 

 by the upper joint of the column ; subradial plates comparatively 

 large, tumid ; first radials broader, but scai'cel\' larger than the 

 subradials; sutures between the plates of the calyx impressed, 

 especially at the points where the angles meet, and where there is 

 a pit-like depression which increases the tumid appearance of the 

 plates, and gives the calyx a somewhat shrivelled aspect; anal 

 space comparatively large. The postero-lateral rays consist of 

 three pieces, including the first radials, and upon each of the third 

 radials the first bifurcation takes place, and above this the poste- 

 rior secondary branch only bifurcates, and this third bifurcation 

 takes place on the eighth piece above the second bifurcation ; 

 giving five arms for each of the postero-lateral rays, beyond all 




32 rnOCKEDlNCS ok TIIK ACADKMr OF [1X78. 



tlie liifiircations. All llic piece's of the rays, iiiclti'ling those of* 

 botli tlie ])riiiiiiiy and siiliordinate divisions, have a tcudeiicv to 

 bet'oine aniiulai' upon the liaek, especially at the nppcrsidc. This, 

 to<i:ether with the apparent eorrng:iti(jn of the ealyx and the 7.1'^- 

 ziig artieidation of the joints of the aims near their upper ends, 

 gives the whole specimen a good degree of aspei-ity of aspect. 

 Pinnies strong and somewliat angular, one arising from each joint 

 of the arms and subordinate divisions of the ra^'s, n|)on alternate 

 sides. The other rays are not fully known, but thc}-^ apparently 

 l)ifurcate in nearly the same manner as the posterolateral ones. 

 Column moderately large, composed of irregularly alternating 

 larger and smaller pieces. The whole surface of bod}', arms, and 

 column distinctly granular. 



Breadth of body. 7 mm. ; height from base to top of first radial 

 pieces, 4 mm.; height from base of bod}- to the top of the arms, 

 35 mm. 



This species resembles S. sequal'ti<, Hall, as figured in Vol. Y. of 

 the Illinois Geological Survey, more nearly than any other known 

 to me, but it differs from that species in the much greater propor- 

 tionate length of the arms, as well as their number, and the man- 

 ner of their bifurcation, besides the difference in the character of 

 the surface. A conspicuous difference is seen in the divisions of 

 the ra3'S ; S. sequalis having eight arms I)}' the ultimate division 

 of each postero-lateral ray, while the species under discussion has 

 only five. In the former species also, the joints of the upper part 

 of the arms lack that zigzag arrangement that they have in the 

 latter; and the general asperity of aspect of the latter is wanting 

 in the former. 



The specific name of this species is given in honor of 'Slv. Wil- 

 liam Gibson, from whom I have received many fine fossils for 

 examination. 



Position and locality. Subcarboniferous strata, probably- equiva- 

 lent with the Keokuk limestone, Crawfordsville, Indiana. 



Mr. Gurley's collection also contains an example from Bono, 

 Lawrence Count}-, Indiana, that seems to belong to this species. 



Scaphiocrinus Gurleyi, "White. 



Body of medium size or somewhat less; calyx roughly cup- 

 shaped ; subradial, first anal, and first radial plates prominent, 

 the sutures being deeply impressed ; base nearly covered by the 




1ST8.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 33 



last joint of the column ; snbradial and first anal plates as large 

 as, or a little larger than, the first radials ; the anterior, and the 

 two antero-lateral rays only are known. These rays consist of 

 three pieces each, including the first radials, already mentioned as 

 a part of the calj'x, and upon the third one the first bifurcation 

 takes place, each division being once more bifurcated at varying 

 distances from the first. In the anterior ra}^ the second bifurcation 

 takes place upon the eleventh piece from the first. In the antero- 

 lateral ra_ys, the second bifurcation takes place upon the ninth 

 piece of the anterior branch of each of those rays from the first 

 bifurcation, and upon the seventli piece, of ♦he posterior branch. 

 Near the tips of some of the arms there is still another bifurcation, 

 the divisio)is of which being small, may easil}' be overlooked, or 

 confounded with the coarse pinnies. The pinnies are large, long, 

 and angular, each piece of all the divisions of the arms above the 

 first bifurcation of the ra_ys bearing one, wiiich are arranged upon 

 alternate sides. The backs of all the divisions of tlie ra_ys are 

 rounded, and have little or no tendency to become angular, except 

 perhaps toward the extremity of the arms. 



Column composed of irregularly alternating larger and smaller 

 pieces. Surface granular. 



Height of body from base to the top of the first radials, 3 mm. ; 

 breadth at top of the first radials, 4 mm. ; height from base to top 

 of arms, 28 mm. 



The calyx of this species closely resembles that of S. Gibsoni, 

 especially in the tumidity of the snbradial and first anal pieces, 

 and in the character of the column ; but it differs very materially 

 from that species in the number of arms and the character of their 

 bifurcations, as well as in the surface markings and other details. 



The specific name is given in honor of Mr. William Gurle}', its 

 discoverer. 



Position and locality. Subcarboniferous strata, probably equiva- 

 lent with the Keokuk limestone, Crawfordsville, Illinois. 



Genus LEPIDESTHES, Meek and Worthen. 

 Lepidesthes Colletti, White. 



General form apparentl}"^ ovate. Interambulacral areas ver^' 

 narrow, linear, slightly convex from side to side, composed of 

 four or five rows of small plates, which rows apparently do not 

 decrease in number, except, perhaps, at either extremity. Ambu- 




34 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1878. 



l;icr:il aicas liroad, |i:irl:ikiiii( of Hit.' convexity of the body, lance- 

 oval in outline, and live or six times as broad as the interambu- 

 laeral areas are. Anibulacral areas made np of very nnmenjiis 

 small I'hombic plati's, the transverse diameter of wiiich is a little 

 greater than the vertical ; their lateral angles moderately aeute, 

 and interlocking so that they api)ear to be arranged in oblique 

 rows; size of the plates nearly uniform tiiroughout the field, 

 except tiiat they all become a little smaller near both the upper 

 and lower extremities of the body. The number of vertical rows 

 of these plates in eaeh field is apparently 18 or 20. Each anibu- 

 lacral plate has two distinct round pores near each other and near 

 the upper angle of the plate. Surface granules small, more dis- 

 tinct upon the interambulacral than upon the ambulacral plates. 



Only one specimen of this species has been discovered, and this 

 is in a crushed condition. The original height was about 45 mil- 

 limetres, and its transverse diameter i)robabl3' considerably less. 



The crushed condition of the specimen causes some doubt as to 

 the true )i umber of longitudinal rows of interambulacral plates, 

 but the3' evidently do not exceed five. There seems to be only 

 four rows to each area, one row of comparatively large plates, 

 with two rows of smaller ones on the right-hand side of it and 

 one row on the left. This want of bilateral symmetry suggests 

 the possibilit}' that one row on the left-hand side of the row of 

 large plates has been forced beneath the others bj' pressure, but a 

 careful examination fails to reveal any evidence of it. 



This species is clearl3'^ distinguished from L. Coreyi, M. and W., 

 the onl}' other known species of the genus, by the very much nar- 

 rower interambulacral areas, the difTerent and varying proi)ortions 

 of the plates composing the former areas, as well as some other 

 important but less conspicuous diflerences. 



The specific name is given in honor of Hon. John Collett, of 

 Newport, Indiana, whose effective labors in the geology' of that 

 State are well known and highl^^ valued. 



Position and localily. Subcarboniferous strata, probabl}' equiv- 

 alent with the Keokuk limestone, Salem, Washington County, 

 Indiana. 




1878.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 35 



MOLLUSCA. 



POLYZOA. 



Genus PTILODYCTIA, Lonsdale. 

 Ptilodyctia triangulata, White. 



Coralhiin apparently ramose, transverse section triangular, the 

 three sides being either flat or concaA^e, usuall}^ the latter, and 

 poriferous ; the three edges sharp ; the laminar axis consisting 

 of three divisions which end respectively at the three edges, and 

 meet at the centre of the corallum; pores well developed, but not 

 arranged in the regular order that is common in this genus, nor 

 are they bounded by any longitudinal or transverse lines or 

 ridges. 



Their moiiths are moderately prominent, slightl}' oval, the di- 

 rection of the longer diameter subject to no I•egularit3^ The 

 breadth of the sides of tiie corallum varies from 3 to 5 milli- 

 metres ; full length unknown. 



This species differs from typical forms of Ptilodyctia, in having 

 three flat or concave sides instead of two convex ones; in the 

 axis being conse([uentl3^ tripartite, and in the irregular disposition- 

 of the pores upon the surface. 



Position and locality. Coal-measure strata, Danville, Illinois. 



CONCHIFERA. 



Genus ASTARTELLA, HalL 

 Astartella Gurleyi, White. 



Shell small, not ver^' gibbous, subtetrahedral in outline ; ante- 

 rior end truncated from the beaks obliquely downward and for- 

 ward to about mid-height of the shell, where the front is sharply 

 rounded to the somewhat broadly rounded base ; posterior border 

 broadly convex, and joining both the basal and dorsal margins by 

 more abrupt curves ; dorsal margin comparatively short, nearly 

 straight ; beaks small, umbones not elevated nor very prominent. 

 An indistinctly defined umbonal ridge extends from each of the 

 umbones to the postero-basal margin, behind which the shell is 

 slightl}^ compressed. Surface marked by concentric furrows, 

 which are separated by sharp linear ridges. 



Length of an example of average size among those of the col- 

 lection, 1 millimetres ; height from base to beaks 4^ imllimetres. 




36 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1S78. 



TIlis species difFers from ^1. iv'?v/, Hall, with wliicli it is some- 

 times associated, in its smaller size, in the slight itroinineiice and 

 ■want o1' elevation of the nml)ones,the <jjrealer ])roi)ortioii;d projec- 

 tion of the fiont beyond the beaks, and in being wider behind 

 than in front, the reverse being the case with A. iwra. The s[)e- 

 cific name is given in honor of Mr, William fJurle}'. in whose eol- 

 lection oidy I h:ive seen the species. 



Fositioii and localihj. Coal-measure strata, Danville, Illinois. 



Genus NAUTILUS, Brcynius. 

 Nautilus Danvillensis, White. 



Shell moderately large, umbilicus deep, but not very broad, 

 showing all the volutions ; volutions apparently four, increasing 

 rapidly in size, verj^ slightly embracing, subtrihedral in cross sec- 

 tion, the two sides of the volution forming two sides of that out- 

 line, while the inner side of the volution forms its third side ; 

 sides of the volution plain, nearl}' flat or slightly convex ; dorsum 

 very narrow, concave, and marked at either edge, where it joins 

 the side, by a row of longitudinally compressed nodes. The sides 

 are rounded abruptl}' into the umbilicus, which is unusually deep- 

 ened by the diameter of the volutions being greater at the inner 

 side than elsewhere. Septa plain, somewhat deeply concave dorso- 

 ventrall}', but less so transversel}' ; siphuncle subcentral, a little 

 nearer to the dorsal than the ventral side. Surface smooth, ex- 

 cept the ordinary lines of growth and the two rows of dorsal 

 nodes before referred to. Shell thin. 



The specimens being imperfect, the exact form of the ai)erture 

 is not accuratel}' known, but the lines of growth show the lateral 

 margins to have been sigmoid, and the dorsal margin concave. 

 These lines also indicate that the aperture was obliipie to the 

 diameter of the plane of the shell, the dorsal portion retreating, 

 and the ventral projecting. 



Transverse diameter of a volution of less than full adult size, 

 from edge to edge of the umbilicus, 4 centimetres ; dorso-ventral 

 width of its sides, 5 centimetres; breadth of dorsum, 16 milli- 

 metres; the full diameter of plane of the largest example discov- 

 ered, about 13 centimetres. 



The narrow concave dorsum, with its two rows of compressed 

 nodes ; the plain, flattened sides of the volutions and their great- 




18tS.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 37 



est diameter being adjacent to the umbilicus, are characters that 

 distinguish this species from all others known to me. 



Position and locality. Coal-measure strata, Danville, Illinois. 



ARTICULATA. 



VERMES. 



Genus SERPULA, Linnsous. 

 Serpula Insita, White. 



Permeating an earth\' carbonaceous layer of the coal-measure 

 strata at Newport, Yerrailion Couut}'^, Indiana, are abundant 

 fragments of a very small serpula, which evidently burrowed in 

 the mass when it was in the condition of mud. Also sessile upon 

 the surface of some embedded shells are some nearl}- perfect ex- 

 amples of the same species. The species of this genus are usually 

 so devoid of characteristics that clearly separate them from each 

 other, that a distinctive diagnosis is difflcult-or impossible. This 

 species is not likelj^ to be mistaken for any other, in consequence 

 of its very small size, and because no other is known in the rocks 

 of that age in that region. It is named for the convenience of 

 fully classifying all the collections of fossils which are yielded by 

 the rich strata of the coal-measures of Illinois and Indiana, as 

 well as the adjoining States. This species may be characterized 

 as minute, sessile or free, tortuous, subcylindrical. 




38 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF £1818. 



Fedrlary 5, 1878. 



The President, Dr. Rusciienberger, in the chair. 



Tliirtj-two persons present. 



The deaths of Andrew IMiirrny, a correspondent, and of Dr. Chas. 

 L. Cassin, U. S. N., a meml)er of the Acadern}-, were announced. 



Note on Cahjvanlhus Floridns. — ^Nlr. Thomas Meeuan said, 

 thongli tliis plant has been nnder culture for many years, the 

 fruit was rarely seen. In correspondence with a leading author, 

 it had been suggested that the plant might be incapable of self- 

 fertilization, and that, being so far from its native place, the 

 special insect arranged to be the agent in fertilization had not 

 followed it. Since that time Mr. Meehan had obtained seeds from 

 the Cumberland Mountains in Tennessee, and plants from these 

 had flowered on his grounds, manj'^ of them producing fruit in the 

 greatest al)undance, while the old plants still remained as bar- 

 ren as they ever were. It was therefore clearly a case in which 

 insects had no agenCy one wa}' or the other. There "was, he said, 

 in plants two distinct forms of force — the vegetative and the re- 

 productive; the one growing out of and dependent on the other, 

 and 3'et to a certain extent antagonistic; and that these forces 

 had their lines especially in the petaloid and staminoid verticils, 

 and this resulted in producing some individual plants abundantly 

 productive of fruit, while others were almost or wholl3^barren. 

 This was the case with most species of plants. The lines were 

 never exactly drawn between these forces. In the case of the 

 Cah'canthus, the earliest individual introduced to cultnre hap- 

 pened to be one that favored the vegetative side, and in which the 

 reproductive had but little power, and this individual, as often 

 happens in nurseries, had been propagated from b^- cuttings or 

 offsets and widel3' distributed. It was in this direction that we 

 had to look for the explanation of man}' similar experiences, and 

 not merel}' to the necessit}' for cross-fertilization. 



He further called attention to the carpellary structure of the 

 capsules of the Calycanthus exhibited. It was not formed of a 

 single verticil of primarj' leaves, but of manj^, as might be seen 

 by the traces of the veins of the original leaves on the capsule. 

 In most species of plants of this character the action of the re- 

 productive over the vegetative force is so powerful, that the trans- 

 formation is complete, and the casual observer could scarcely be- 

 lieve that a seed-vessel was but a mass of metamorphosed leaves. 

 In this case we might say that the vegetative force had achieved 

 considerable headway before the reproductive force had been able 

 to bend the other to its own purposes. 




1878.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 39 



Distinctive Characters of Teeth. — Dr. Harrison Allen pro- 

 posed to distinguish the buccal from the palatal side of human 

 upper molars by the presence of a sulcus upon the latter surftices 

 and its absence from the former. The bicuspid teeth were found 

 to present crowns having an anterior and posterior limiting ridge 

 upon their grinding surfaces. These ridges are inconstant in the 

 molars, notabl}- upon the jjosterior edges of their crowns. Upon 

 the anterior edges the}'', as a rule, are seen, and recall the pecu- 

 liarity of the similar teeth of Cynocephalus and Semnopithecus. 

 When a human molar exhibits the antero-palatal cusp united to 

 the antero-buccal cusp by a well-pronounced limiting ridge it was 

 thought to be an instance of reversion of the human to the qnad- 

 rumanous t3'pe. 



February 12. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Thirtj^-one persons present. 

 The following papers were presented for publication : — 



" Notes on North American Caridea in the Museum of the Pea- 

 body Academy of Sciences at Salem, Mass." B}^ J. S. Kingsle}^ 



," Additions to Mr. Cooke's paper on the Yalsei of the United 

 States." By W. C. Stevenson, Jr. 



The deaths of George T. Barker, Thomas P. Remington, and 

 Wm. Welsh, members of the Academy, were announced. 



February 19. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Thirt^'-three persons present. 



Foliaceous sepals in Hepatica. — Mr. Martindale exhibited a 

 specimen of Hepatica triloba wliich he had collected near the 

 mouth of the Wissahickon Creek, in April, 1877, all the flower 

 stalks of which had produced leaves in tlie place of sepals similar 

 in shape to those usually produced on the leaf stalks, but onl}^ 

 about one-half their size ; and then spoke of the causes of this 

 change of condition. He stated that investigators in the study 

 of this branch of the vegetable kingdom had long since attributed 

 any deviation from the normal character as due, not to a want of 

 vitality', but to a superabundance of vitality, and claimed that 

 this specimen was a fair illustration, and a confirmation of that 

 theor}-, it being the largest specimen he had ever seen. The great 




40 PROCEP:i)iNa.s of tiik academy of [1«78. 



aliiiiiilaiicc of iVHils, the presciioe oC a large iiiiiiihi'i' of loaves of 

 tlu! preceding yc:ir, wliicli had remained altaclied to llie plant 

 tlirongliont tlie winter, tlie true leaves (jf the season just becoming 

 visible, and which appeared to be of greater alnindaiice than those 

 of a foi'uier year's growth, all gnvc evidence of the presence of an 

 unusual amount of vitality. No llowers had been produced at 

 all, at the same time tiie Hower stalks which had produced leaves 

 were exceedingly numerous. This morpliologic change gave evi- 

 dence of still another: as these leaves upon close examination 

 were found to be covered with a fungoid growth of a low type, 

 the tendency of which may have been to dwarf or disturb the full 

 and free exercise of the vital force of the plant. 



Mr. Thomas Meeiian observed that he was not prejwred to 

 sa3- that extra vigorous growth in a plant had any relation to 

 morphological changes in the parts of the inflorescence, but he 

 regarded with great interest the specimen exhil)ited, Ijccanse 

 he l)elieved the normal change of leaves to sepals would not have 

 been interfered with but for the presence of the minute fungus. 

 As in the cases which he liad in the past brought to the notice 

 of the Academy, where Eiq^hoi'bia proalrata and Portulaca ole- 

 racea became erect when attacked b^^ an JEcidium^ he thought 

 the present an illustration that varying phases of nutrition gov- 

 erned form. We know from many observations that interference 

 with nutrition had an influence on morphological changes. The 

 calla {Riehardia yElhiopica) which under one system of culture 

 produced all leaves, under others had some of them changed to 

 its wiiite spathaceous flowers, and a ringed branch would often 

 cause what would otherwise have been leaves and branches to 

 become flowers and fruit. It was a great point gained to perceive 

 the agent in the change, though the precise law influencing the 

 agent was still obscure. 



On Citrine or Yelloio Quartz. — Prof. Leidy made remarks on 

 citrine or yellow quartz with the hope of eliciting more accurate 

 information as to its origin. Cut as a gem it is common, and is 

 sold by the jewellers (almost to the exclusion of the true mineral) 

 for topaz. The cut specimens of citrine occur in all siiades, from 

 a pale straw-yellow to the richest orange hue, often with a brown 

 tinge more or less deep. Uncut specimens of the mineral of equal 

 quality in color are rare in mineralogical collections. Pale yellow 

 citrine is derived from many localities, but the best and deeper 

 colored varieties are said to come from Brazil. In the museum 

 of the Academy there is a i>el)ble of pale yellow citrine, al)out the 

 size of a fist, presented from the Brazilian collection, at the close 

 of the late International Exhibition. In the dis|)lay of quartzes 

 of the Brazilian collection no darker specimens of the citrine were 

 observed. 




1878.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 41 



Some authorities refer to citrine as probalil}' being prorliiced by 

 burning araeth3^st or smolvy-quartz ( Kluge : Handb. Edelsfein- 

 kunde, 374; Lange : HalbedeLs/eine^ 30). Prof. Leidj' exhibited 

 clear, colorless specimens of quartz, cut and in the natural cr^'stal, 

 which he said were amethysts and smoky-quartz, wliich had been 

 submitted for a short time to a moderate red heat, resulting in 

 the total expulsion of all color. Sraokj'-quartz of the darkest hue, 

 from Paris, Maine ; Hot Springs, Arkansas ; and Pike's Peak, 

 Colorado, have the color completely dissipated after a short ex- 

 posure to moderate red lieat. Perliai)S heating under peculiar cir- 

 cumstances may convert the usual color of amethyst into the 

 yellow of the citrine, but specimens heated in the ordinary man- 

 ner did not indicate such a change. 



February 26. 

 The President, Dr. Kuschenberger, in the chair. 

 Thirt^'-two persons present. 



The deaths of Prof. Andreas Retzius and of Dr. 0. A, L. Morch, 

 correspondents, were announced. 



Papers entitled " Distribution of Spiders by the Trade Winds," 

 and "The Basilica Sinder (Epeira basilica)," b}' the Rev. H. C. 

 McCook, were presented for publication. 



J. Gozzardini, Bologna; G. Menegliini, Pisa; Antoine Stoppani, 

 Milan; Francisco Coello^ Madrid; J. J. Steenstrup, Copenhagen; 

 F. Steenstrup, Copenhagen ; R. Brough Smyth, Melbourne ; Ed- 

 ouard Van Beneden, Liege; and Jules Klinckel d'Herculais, Paris, 

 were elected Correspondents. 



The following papers were ordered to be printed : — 




42 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1878. 



ON THE ALKALI OF THE PLAINS IN BEIDGEE VALLEY, WYOMING 



TERKITOEY. 



BY K. UOLDSMITII. 



Wliilst visiting Fort Uridger, Wyoming, Prof. Leidy observed 

 on the plains in the vicinity an efflorescent salt, called there alkali. 

 It appeal's as a dirty-gray powfk'r ; amorphous not only to the 

 naked eye, but also beneath tiie microscope. 



The flame reaction shows tiie i)resence of soda and ))otassa. 

 Heated in the closed tube it blackens and emits some water having 

 an alkaline reaction. Water dissolves |)art of it, and leaves a dark- 

 colored residue. In the watery solution I recognized lime, j)otassa, 

 soda, sulphuric acid, and a trace of chlorine and ammonia. The 

 insolulile part consists of silica, colored by oxide of iron. 



After two grammes were perfectly' exhausted with distilled water, 

 the water expelled and the remaining mixture of salts dried on 

 steam, I obtained 0.551 gramme = 27.55 per cent.; the insoluble 

 part is the difference, or = 72.45 per cent. 



U[)on separating the lime, and changing the sulj^hates of potassa 

 and soda into their respective chlorides, I obtained a drj' mixture 

 of 0.448 gramme of chlorides, from which was extracted 0.08389 

 gramme of chloride of potassium; hence, by -subtracting 0.364II 

 gramme of chloride of sodium and computing these chlorides into 

 sulphates, we get approximateh' : — 



Sulphate of soda = .442 gram. =: 22.10 per cent. 

 " potassa = .098 " = 4.90 " " 



By difiference, " Ihne = .011 " = Mo " " 



The soluble part, =0.o51 " =27.55 



Adding the insoluble part, =1.449 " = 72.45 



Sum, 2.000 grams. = 10U.OO " " 



Alkaline Incrustatio7is. — At the Mineral Springs, Pioneer Val- 

 ley, W. T., Prof. Leidy found a material which, if carefully picked 

 out from some loose powder mingled with particles of vegetable 

 matter, appears as a white soft substance, which easil}' crumbles 

 between the fingers. Its aspect is like that of an incrustation 

 of recent date, derived from a watery solution, of which the 

 solvent quickl}' evaporated. It is irregular in shape ; some pieces 




1878.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 43 



are formed on one side, similar to cauliflower; no crj'stalline par- 

 ticles are seen by ordinary inspection. Beneath the microscope, 

 however, a few prismatic crystals were observed. 



The flame reaction indicated soda and potassa. 



Heated in the tube, closed at one end, it changes to black, 

 showing that the substance contains some organic matter; it also 

 gives water. 



If heated on coal before the blowpipe, it is all absorbed. 



In water, the substance is soluble, with the exception of a small 

 quantity of flocculent matter, which seems to be silica. 



The watery solution is alkaline to test-paper. The solution 

 seems to contain no other bases than those named above, but 

 partly combined with chlorine, partly as sulphates and carbonates. 

 No attempt was made to determine the organic matter. 



I found that 0.727 gramme lost on steamhead O.OOG gramme = 

 0.82 per cent, of water. 1.4035 gramme gave 1.2605 gramme sul- 

 phate baryta = 0.4327 gramme = 30.83 per cent, of sulphuric acid. 

 0.7445 gramme gave 0.5875 gramme of chloride of silver = 0.1452 

 gramme = 19.50 per cent, of chlorine. 1.000 gramme of the sub- 

 stance gave, after the sulphates had been converted into chlorides, 

 0.8865- gramme of a mixture of chloride of sodium and chloride of 

 potassium, from which I separated 0.1948 gramme of chloride of 

 potassium; hence 0.8865 — 0.1946 = 0.6919 gramme of chloride 

 of sodium. 



From the data, the computation in regard to the affinities was 

 carried out with the followins: results : — 



100.00 



In the result of this analysis, it is demonstrated that four dis- 

 tinct alkaline salts are contained in the mixture in which the 

 potassa sulphate is remarkable. From the small quantity of water 

 found, I infer that the atmosphere must be extremely dry in that 

 particular locality. 




44 



TROCEEDINCiS OF TIIK ACADKMY OF 



[1878. 



Two otlicr iniii('i;il spcH'iincMis from tlic sanie locality Mcro 

 ohlaiiUMJ hy I'rof. Lfiil^'. IJotli were of tlic same ireiieral charac- 

 ter. Tlicy arc uneven, rough, and formless. Tliroiitrhout the 

 mass small irregular iioles are seen, which prol)al)ly were pro- 

 duced by carbonic acid gas. Both specimens were analyzed and 

 found to be of the same composition. They are impure carltonate 

 of lime, containing some soda and potassa, and are colored by 

 oxide of iron. 




1878.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 45 



ON THE MECHANICAL GENESIS OF TOOTH-FORMS, 

 BY JNO. A. RYDER. 



During a stud}^ of the osteology of the mammalia, the yiews 

 herein advanced were first conceived as a rational explanation of 

 tlie origin of the shapes of dental structures, as they exist in the 

 different groups. More mature deliberation has only served to 

 strengthen the conviction that the inquiry is in tlie right direction, 

 since no body of facts witli whicli I am acquainted are more beau- 

 tifullj'and intimately interrelated than tliose which I have here so 

 imperfectly presented. It is hoped that a better appreciation of 

 what might, without violence to commonly received ideas, be 

 called evolutional teleology, may be attained bj^ pursuit of similar 

 inquiries in other directions.^ Tiiis attempt to unravel a portion 

 of the complex interrelations of the parts of organic beings, so as 

 to show how their metamorphoses may be effected by mechanical 

 means, it is believed, ma}' not strike tlie mind of the reader as 

 altogether futile, nor the title as quite so presumptuous, as would 

 at first appear, after all the facts have been weighed. The inter- 

 pretation of the rationale of the differentiation of structures in a 

 mechanical way is not entirely new, since Lamarck, in his " Phi- 

 losophic Zoologique (1809), and latterly Mr. Spencer, with greater 

 philosophical grasp, have both shown that efforts exerted to over- 

 come resistances are retroactive and induce modifications in the 

 parts of organisms.' 



» Am. Naturalist, 1877, p. 603. Nature, vol. 17, 1877, p. 138. 



2 It may be observed here that the nomenclature of tooth-forms adopted 

 throughout is that proposed by Prof. E. D. Cope iu his memoir, entitled 

 "On the Homologies and Origin of the Types of Molar Teeth of Mammalia 

 Educabilia (Jouru. Acad. Nat. Sci., Pliilada. 1874). The names are not 

 intended as characterizing groups or orders in the system, but rather as 

 distinguishing distinct classes of teeth, which may exist in the same or 

 nearly the same form in several distinct orders or fomilies of the class. The 

 definitions of terms remain the same, except those of the words isognathous 

 and a'nisognathous, which I use so as not only, to indicate respectively 

 parity and disparity in transverse diameter of the crowns of the upper and 

 lower molars, but also the parity or disparity in width transversely, from 

 outside to outside, over both maxillaries, including the bony palate and the 

 width across both rami of the submaxillary. This additional signification 




40 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACAT)EMY OF [1878. 



Iholfi-foi'ins and Jmv-movennnits of the Gi'oups. — It uiiiy be 

 stated ill general terms that the primates are biiiioclont ami rela- 

 tively isognathous, consequently tiie lateral movement is limited. 

 Tills type of dentition is affirmed to be generalized, or, in other 

 words, to be present in several diverse groujis ; first oceurring 

 in earlier forms and in the young of maii^', previous to or during 

 the protrusion of the teeth from the gum, prior to or about tlie 

 time tlie}- become functional. Man is usually not perfectly' isog- 

 nathous, tiie nearest approaclies to it that 1 have observe<l were 

 in the skulls of a Slavonian and an Anglo-Saxon. Cynopilhecus 

 and ]\facacti.-> are anisognalhous, and tiie South American liowler 

 monkeys and marmorets even more so. The American primates 

 seem to present the anisognalhous extreme, and the Old ^Vo^ld 

 forms the isognathous. Another fact of interest here is the sliape 

 of the glenoid cavity. In the gorilla it is more like man's tlian 

 in any primate I have examined ; deeply excavated transversely, 

 with a i)rominent transverse ridge bordering the excavation ante- 

 riorly. This form of glenoid cavity entirely disappears in the 

 howlers, in which it is a comparatively plane surface; the superior 

 surface also of the cond^de is flattened and expanded transversely, 

 as in selenodont ungulates, which agrees with the presence of the 

 rudimentary crescentic cusps and the anisognathism. The ehiin- 

 l)anzee has a relatively plane glenoid surface, and in man the 

 depth of the excavation of the cavit3' is greater even in the Aus- 

 tralian, the lowest modern type of human skulls. 



The dentition of Ferse is bunadont, usually somewhat anisogna- 

 lhous, the tubercles are laterallj'^ compressed, with edges so sharp 

 as to constitute a very effective apparatus for cutting the tough 

 tendons, ligaments, and bones of their pre}'. The mandibular 

 articulation is the most perfectly ginglymoid in the class, and 

 hence also admits of the least lateral movement. All the lateral 

 movement observal)le is that which is effected by the lateral 

 sliding of the cjdindroid condyles in the glenoid cavities; the 

 effect is, however, widely different from the lateral movement ob- 

 served in ungulates. In these the distal end of the mandil)le 

 moves through the greatest s[)ace, while in Ferse all points of the 



slighth' channcs the proposed grouping in the memoir referred to, but it 

 also has the greater iidvantage of making words already in use serviceable 

 and analogous in meaning to prognai/tous und ortliojnathous, as first used 

 b}' Retzius in crauiograph}'. 




1878.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 



47 



jaw ill sliding sidewise pass tlirougli the same distance. A few 

 of the group retain the simple haplodont type of tooth, e. g., Eos- 



The passage from the archetypal biinodont tooth to the scissors- 

 like (carnassial) sectorial arrangement is plainly exhibited, b}- se- 

 lecting a series beginning with Ursidee, and continuing with Am- 

 phici/on, Procyonidse^ Melinae^ Cei'colepfes, Jlusfelidse, etc., and 

 ending with the Felidae, as the extreme of specialization. 



Amongst the Ungulala^ the most conclusive evidence is found 

 in confirmation of the law of dental modification liere enunciated. 

 The numerous living and extinct species present a remarkable 

 chain of dental forms, gradually' departing from the bunodout 

 type, and passing into the excessivelj^ modified selenodont, ac- 

 companied with increased mobility of the mandible in a lateral 

 direction and increased anisognathism. 



The Toxodontia present a ptychodont type of dentition, are 

 very anisognathous, and the condyles approach in form those of 

 the selenodont ungulates; the^'in all probabilitjMnoved their jaws 

 laterally. The enamel patterns are reversed in opposite series. 



The H3'racoidean dentition is tapirodont, with an apparent 

 tendency towards the selenodont, anisognathous with condyles 

 transversely expanded, which may be regarded in connection with 

 the truncate crowns of the molars and plane condyles as evidence 

 of extensive lateral movement. 



The Proboscidea are regarded as trichecodont, a careful exami- 

 nation, however, reveals that the inner tubercles above and the 

 outer ones of the inferior molars of some 

 of the extinct forms ( Trilophodon and 

 Tetralophodon) were slightly selenodont 

 (Fig. 1), anisognathous; molars tubercu- 

 late, in few cross crests ; cond^des more 

 like that of selenodont ungulates, with 

 lateral motion. In Elephas and Loxo- 

 don the jaw-movement is from behind 

 forwards ; condyles more rodent-like, 

 isognathous; molars with flat crowns; tu- 

 bercles becoming obsolete from wear, and blended into numerous 

 transverse plates. 



The Sirenia are trichecodont and bunodont. The trichecodont 

 form {3Ianatu)i) seems to have some lateral motion, as there is 



Fiir. 1. 



Eisht upper inolor of Jfastod' n. 




48 PROCEKDINOS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1878. 



some (lejrroc of aiiisoiiiiatliisin. 'I'lio teeth of the Dugong wlien 

 young !ire buiiodoiit, :i.s is shown by a sjiecitnen in the collection 

 of the Academy. 



The toothed cetaceans have a type of dentition more or less 

 nearly haplodont {Zeuglodon presents two rooted molars and 

 premolars, with a simple, compressed serrated crown). 



The MijsLicele are without true teeth, jaws greatly modified, 

 rami separate, keratose laminje (l)aleeii) and surrounding soft 

 parts acting as a preiicusile apparatus in connection with the 

 movement of the creature through the water. 



In the insectivorous group C/rh-oplirra' the dentition ap- 

 jiroaches, in some respects, that designated as symltorodont. It 

 is anisognatlious, but differs in the bats from the sj'mborodont 

 greatly in the manner in which the teeth of opposite series fit into 

 each other; it is also met with in nearly as marked a form in some 

 marsupials (Z>iWe//^//?/.«), and in Insectif07-a (Talpidae, etc.). The 

 anterior V-like cusp of the inferior molar series is longer than 

 the posterior, the former fits into an acute or triangular space 

 partially separating the upper molars on the inside, the latter fits 



' The following tables arc of interest as exhibiting a gradual reiluction of 

 molars and premolars in this group. They are taken from an abstract of 

 an elaborate paper by W. Lecbe in Weiffmann''s Archivf. Naturgea, xliii., 

 Pt. 5, 1877, 353. I have not seen the original in Lu7id''s Universitets Ars- 

 skrift, tome xii., 187C : — 



I. Showing gradual loss of posterior molars in the Phyllostomata and 

 Desmodiua — 



Brachijj)hylla, •\ m. J (fully developed upper 3d ni.). 



Sturnira, etc., ni. J (rudimentary upper 3d m.). 



Artibeus^ u^- 1- 



Chiroderma, j pm. l ni. r, (fully developed upper 3d m.). 



Pyrjoderma^ j m. ^ (rudimentary upper 2d m.). 



Diphylla, \ m. \. 



Desmodus, J m. -J. 



II. Showing gradual loss of middle premolars in the Vespertilio series — 



^ ^.,. , /pm. 14-2-f3> 



Vesperttho, pm. M ' , T o I -0^ 

 Vpm. 1 + 2 + oj 



Plecotus, pm. 5 (P''l_-±— -_V 

 \pm. 1 + 2 + ^/1 



Vesperngo^^iQ.liJ'^^' . „) 

 \pm. 1 + 3/ 



Vesperus, pm. I ( ^"^' \ 



\pm. 1 + 3/ 




1878.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 49 



into a similar space or groove, between tlie Y-like cusps of the 

 upper molars. The condyles are elongated transversely^ and 

 somewhat ginglj'moid in respect to articulation, and do not admit 

 of much lateral movement. 



The foregoing remarks render further notice of the dentition of 

 Inseciivora unnecessary, or see St. G. Mivart's papers.^ 



Amongst Rodents a greater variety of dental forms is to be 

 found than in any other order of the class with the exception of 

 the marsupials; frequently haplodont, ptychodont, or bunodont, 

 and, sometimes, even approaching the selenodont form. It is 

 \evy likely that the very common opposite arrangement of the 

 folds of enamel in the opposite series has had the same origin as 

 those in the selenodont s^'stem. In many species the dentition is 

 peculiar, and has no parallel in otlier orders. What is now re- 

 ferred to is the curious pattern met with in such genera as Arvi- 

 cola, Fiber, and Neotoma, wiiere the figure formed by the enamel 

 covering of the triangular dentine columns stands reversed in 

 respect to those of their fellows of the opposing series. The 

 various grades of anisognathisni and isognathism here find their 

 fullest expression; indeed, the multiformity in this and other 

 features is such as to be worthy of more extended study than can 

 be devoted to them without a complete collection of jaws and 

 teeth of recent and fossil species. 



The dental system of BriUa is usually haplodont, though in the 

 extinct Eoplophoridae and Mylodontidae, it was ptychodont in 

 form, but not in structure, since there was no enamel to be folded. 

 In the former group {Glyptodon) the teeth were inclined forwards 

 in the lower series, and backwards above, as observed in Arvico- 

 line rodents, which with their form in section gives us a hint as 

 to the origin of that form. 



The marsupials, other tlian the insectivorous ones, present the 

 trichecodont and a type simulating the selenodont in Phascolomys. 

 A remarkable form is observed in Stereognathus, as described by 

 Owen, where the crescentoid middle tubercles have the convex 

 side directed backwards, and the concave forwards in the molars 

 of the mandibles, which arrangement, as he observes, is not found 

 in any other living or extinct species of mammal. 



' Jouru. of Anat. and Physiology, vol. i., 1867, pp. 280-312; lb., vol. 

 ii. pp. 117-154. 




50 PROCEEDINOS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1878. 



Differentiation of Denial Systems. — By what Professor f'ope 

 calls "synthesis of repetition,' the origin of the various types 

 of mammalian dentition is rationally accounted for, by sup- 

 posing an additional modicum of growth force as duplicating 

 the primitive dental bod}', in lateral, longitudinal, or obli(iue 

 directions. Jn all tlie ruminating ungulates the repetition of 

 tubercular structures is now tending to take place on those 

 sides of the teeth most subject to the severe impacts incident 

 to mastication, as is shown by the appearance of rudimentary 

 tubercles (cingules) upon the outside of tlie molar teeth in tiie 

 mandible, and upon tlie inside in the molars of the maxillar}-. 

 Another kind of differentiation has taken place in the incisors of 

 the horse, as I have attempted to show in a previous paper,^ where 

 the dui)lication has taken place from the posterior side, in accord- 

 ance with tlie generally prevalent acceleration going on in the wliole 

 dental system, and to account for which I cannot forbear suggest- 

 ing that the severe wear to which these structures have been so 

 long subject, together with the peculiarities of maiidil)ular motion, 

 have conspired to produce the following ciianges : the elongation 

 of the teeth, their consequently deeper imiilantation in the mandi- 

 ble, and the fusion of the fangs or roots into the simple, persistently 

 growing, rootless columns. Tiiis gradual elongation and fusion 

 of the roots of the teeth is well seen in the series of horses' teeth 

 which Prof. Huxlej' presents in his third lecture in New York. 

 There are also instances amongst Artiodactyls, the great Edentata 

 {Megatherium), many herbivorous rodents, elephants, etc., in all 

 of which it is noticed that the later forms are invariably possessed 

 of the longest teeth growing from more or less distinctly persist- 

 ent pulps, or some arrangement which is equivalent. These 

 forms with the long molars have almost invariably been herb- 

 ivorous with lateral motion of the mandible, while the short 

 unmodified tubercular form of molar tooth with fangs has been 

 preserved in those types in which the food was already pre- 



' Proc. Am. Philos. Soc., 1871, p. 242. 



* Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., Phila. 1877, p. 152. I have since observed an 

 instance in an incisor of Cynopithecus, where the prominent ciugulum on 

 the posterior face of the tooth came very near being functional, so as to 

 inclose an area homologous with the "mark" or cul-de-sac in the incisors 

 of the horse, proving conclusively to my mind that such has been the origin 

 of tlie complex incision of the latter animal. 




1878.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 51 



paved for assimilation, or was relatively soft as in the Suina and 

 some rodents (Sciurus and JIus). In all rodents, the incisors 

 grow from persistent pulps, no matter whetlier the molars grow 

 from such pulps or not, showing again that strains have here 

 l)layed the part of directive agents, controlling growth force. 

 Methods of cusp duplication ma}' be tabulated as follows: — 



1. Interstitial ; developing connecting ridges (possibly this appearance 



is often due to compression of the cusps). 

 3. Lateral ; either palatal or buccal, internally above, and externally 



\)e]ow iCervus, Bos). 

 3. From behind ; by the successive addition from behind of transverse 



rows of cusps or greatly flattened and expanded single ones. As 



in Mastodon, Elephas, Hydrochoerus, and Potamochoerus. 



Whilst such changes in cusp growth are going on, the external 

 cementum layer thickens as modern and domesticated forms are 

 approached ; the last (living) term in a given phylum of herbivor- 

 ous ungulates usually having it thickest. 



Prof. Harrison Allen's views on cusp duplication, as expressed 

 in an article in the Dental Cosmos,^ " On the Nomenclature of the 

 [human] Teeth," are worthy of notice in this connection. His 

 views, which are verj' clearly stated, may be summarized and 

 somewhat expanded, so as to include other mammalia, as fol- 

 lows : — 



1. That the cusps are the initial (embrj'ological, and, therefore, 

 palingenetic) elements of the teeth from wiiich the fangs or roots 

 are produced by the gradual thickening of the dentinal struc- 

 tures. 



2. That the development of bicuspid (premolar), quadricuspid 

 (molar) teeth is effected by the repetition of the unicuspid form 

 (incisive or haplodont), i. e., by the functional development of 

 Cingules,^ or rudimentary cusplets at the base of the crowns of 

 unicuspid, bicuspid, quadricuspid, etc, forms, often forming cin- 

 gula, that are frequentl}' broken up into small, more or less dis- 

 tinctly' defined tubercles. 



Several instances occur amongst tlie mammalian orders exhi- 

 biting, greatly elongated cusps. In the cases of tiie Ungulates and 

 Proboscidians the steps of the process can l)e pretty easil}' traced. 

 In the former the primary form is the simple cone, which gradii- 



• Vol. xvi., 1874, pp. 617-G23. 



^ A convenient term, proposed by Prof Allen. 




52 



PROCEEDINGS OF TirK ACADEMY OF 



[1878. 



aUy bocoinos inoic ninl more compressed, and at the same lime 

 produced (Fiji. -)? ll'c :icule lore and aft edges of which are turned 



Fiir. 2. 



f/ V, ,'; .11 



1. Transverse vertical section of roar nppor iiiohir of Sus erymanHiins. 



2. Same of Traffocervs aniuUhena. 



3. Same of Bug taurun (Altered from Gandry). d. Dentine ; e. enamel ; and r, cementtim. 

 The dotted lines at the apices of the cusps of 2 and 3 show the portion worn away. 



either outwards or inwards, as the teeth happen to be upper or 

 lower molars, while as the apical portion of the cusp is worn off 

 the characteristic crescentoid pattern becomes apparent. 



In the Proboscidians we probably encounter a successional 

 series of tooth forms in which the individual cusps were short and 

 distinct, with little cementum in Mastodon, but as the surviving 

 group of true elephants is approached both the recent species 

 and the extinct species allied to them exhibit a great production 

 of the tubercles, while, as we should expect, they at the same 

 time become mucli more numerous. The enamel is the only con- 

 siderable covering of tiie crowns in the cusped forms, wliereas in 

 the forms with lamellate teeth the transverse sulci (valleys), 

 are gradually deepened and filled with cementum, which consti- 

 tutes about half of the mass of tiie teetli in some instances. In 

 the milk dentition of Loxodon africanus evidence of tlie original 

 bi-tnberculate condition of the lamella (tubercles) still remains 

 wliere their apices are not 3'et worn; and I believe that evidence 

 is not wanting to show that this is the case in all the true ele- 

 phants. Tlie gradual elongation of the individual cusps of Pro- 

 boscidians is shown in the following seven diagrams (Fig. 3), 




1878.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



53 



selected and reduced from Plates I., II., and III. of Falconer and 

 Caulle^^'s Fauna Antiqua Sivalensis. 



Fio-. 3. 



1. Loui.'ituiUual aud vertical section of the crown of a lower mo\a,T(it Dinotheriiimmaffniim. 



2. Same of two cross-erests of an u>)per molar of Mastodon ohiotieus. 



3. Same of two cross-crests of a lower molar of Elephas ganesa. 



4. Same of three cross-crests of E. insignis. 



5. Same of a cross-crest of E. planifruns. 



6. Same of a lamellum or cross-crest of E. hysudricug. 

 Same of E. indicus. 



d, Ueiitiiie; e, enamel, and c, eementum. 



As we have seen, the increase in mass and length of the food 

 triturating organs (teeth) of herbivora have increased as we 

 ascend througli the successive geological horizons, have uniformly 

 been broadened to present a more available crushing surface, and 

 have, in many special cases, diverged from the ancestral type, 

 apparently because certain strains operate in a way entirely new, 

 owing to the necessary, voluntary, or intelligent assumption of 

 new habits of life. I would add the following from unpublished 

 MS. upon another subject : " When the various groups of terres- 

 trial running birds and mammals, and also the saltatoiy, or leap- 

 ing mammalia, are considered, the evident strengthening and 

 modification of certain toes, resulting in their specialization and 




5-t PROCEEDINOK OF THE ACADEMY OP [1878. 



reiliu'tion, is so apparent, that to deny tlie at^eney of strains as a 

 very potent canse, is .simply to ignore the plainest principles of 

 physical development, where to accelerate that development, 

 gradnally increasing resistances mnst be oveicomo so as to acquire 

 increased strength, as illustrated in the training of oarsmen, 

 gymnasts, lifters, and pugilists. The peculiarities of muscular 

 development, induced by peculiar strains incident to the pursuit 

 of certain trades, is a further illustration.''' 



As it is b}' the duplication of tubercles in various directions, 

 their fusion, suppression, or atrophy, enlargement or hypei trophy, 

 and total suppression, that the various types of teeth and denti- 

 tion seem to have arisen, some of tiie causes of these changes 

 may next be considered. But in order fully to appreciate the 

 l)otenc3' of such causes as may be suggested, it will be well to 

 take a glance at some of the dental systems of the mammalia 1o 

 see if there is any evidence of plasticity of the teeth. "What favors 

 the idea of plasticity more than anything else is the constant 

 reversal of the forms of the tubercles in opposite molar series, as 

 in Artiodactyls and Perissodactyls, the reversal of the plan of the 

 foldings wherever the ptychodont type prevails, as in rodents and 

 Toxodontia., as though forced into those shapes by some force 

 always acting in a dclinite direction. The fact that the component 

 cusps of the molars of almost all rodents and ruminants are, in 

 the former, transversely, and, in the latter, longitudinally com- 

 l)ressed, as though pressures operating in these respectively oppo- 

 site lines of mandibular movement had induced the compression, 

 is strong presum})tive evidence in favor of the doctrine of plas- 

 ticity of dental structures. I would not so strongly insist upon 

 plasticity in the adult as in the 3'oung animal, when the teeth 

 first appear, and when in many cases they are very perceptildy 

 flexible, though ver3' brittle. The evidence which is, however, 

 most striking of all is the gradual derivation of the crescentoid 

 type of cusp, apparently from the conical type. This crescentic 

 form is constantly' intensified as the pliocene is approached tli rough 

 the previous geological horizons, as though some force relatively 

 uniform in degree and persistence had been in operation through- 

 out a great length of time, effecting but slight changes towards 



' A German surgeon, to whose papers I cannot now refer, became expert 

 in indicathig- the occiipatiou of tradesmen by a study of the dilfereuces of 

 development induced by ditferent trades in the superticial muscles. 




1878.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 55 



the later type in a single generation, but entailing that slight 

 change upon offspring through the law of hereclit}^, and these two 

 processes again indefinitely repeated until the sum total of per- 

 haps infinitely slight differentiations effected in this way, amounts 

 to the difference of form we note to-day between the ancient 

 bunodont and modern selenodont. 



Zoologists, previous to this time, seem to have paid little or no 

 regard to the mandibular movements of animals as the proximate 

 causes of tooth modification. Although most of the reasoning 

 in favor of such a view is of the a posteriori kind, there is not 

 ■wanting in other facts of biology the obvious relation between 

 cause and effect, whii;h is here appreciable only as an effect, for 

 which it is entirely warrantable to assume a cause discoverable, 

 and capable of a rational interpretation. Indeed, until the appear- 

 ance of tlie palaeontological works of such pioneers as Owen, 

 Leidy, Falconer, and others, it was scarcely possible that any- 

 thing suggestive of a constantly active modifying force should 

 have crossed the mind of the zoologist. It was from their work, 

 in connection with some studies in recent osteology, that I w^as 

 led to commence making observations upon the various living 

 groups, as represented more particularly in tlie collection of the 

 Philadelphia Zoological Society,^ witli especial reference to the 

 kind of mandibular movement peculiar to the different orders, 

 and I was not disappointed to find my surmises substantiated 

 by the actions of the living animals. I observed that there were 

 several distinct kinds of mandibular movement, each kind corre- 

 sponding to some very distinct t3'pe of tooth, which led to the 

 observance of other classes of facts, whose import, until then, I ' 

 had not comprehended. I noticed, too, that in some cases the 

 movements were different at different times in the same animal, 

 and in some tiiat the kind of movement during rumination was 

 characteristic of a single species, as in the camel.^ I also noticed 

 that the lamas and vicugnas had peculiar movements, which seemed 

 to be transition forms, imperfectly bridging the gap between that 

 characteristic of the camel and the ordinary t3'pe of ruminants. 



' I take this opportunity of making an acknowledgment for the facilities 

 so kindly atforded to me for study by Mr. A. E. Brown, the Superintendent 

 of tliis institution. 



2 This feature is as characteristic of the Tylopoda as the synchronous 

 forward movement of both legs one side in walking. 




56 



rUoCKKKlNtlS OK J'lIK A(.\1>K.MY OP 



[18YS. 



In no case, however, (lid llie moveiuont depart from the kind 

 charaeteristic of the species, family, or order, so as to invalichite 

 any eoneliisions wliieh Mii^;ht he driiwn fiDin them as eoiidilioning 

 chan<i;es in tooth-slnietnie. l>iie aUowanee was also made i\>v the 

 dilfeient kind of food wiiieh, in special instances, the creatnres 

 nnder consideration were compelled to eat in confinement, due Icr 

 removal from their native wilds. 



'IMie varieties of mandibular movement ol)sorved are diagram- 

 mat icall}- shown in Fig. 4, wliicJi were obtained l)y selecting and 



a h 



Fi.sr. 4. 



watching some point on the end of the mandil)le, or of the lower 

 lip while tlie jaws were in motion, and the various figures which 

 were thus described 1)3' the point chosen were found to be in varicnis 

 animals very nearly those marked a, 6, c, rf, e, and/" in the dia- 

 gram. The end of the mandible in carnivora was found to describe 

 that at «, this was also noticed as the characteristic figure described 

 by the pigs, and, for theoretical reasons, is assumed to be charac- 

 teristic of the Hippopotamus and the earlier t^'pes of ungulate 

 mammalia. In the feline section of the carnivora no other kind 

 of mandibular movement would be possible, since, as has been 

 noticed, the descent of the anterior and posterior bony borders 

 of the glenoid cavity is such as to grasp the cj'lindroid condyle 

 so as to constitute the most strongl}'^ marked type of ginglymoid 

 mandibular articulation in the class, though there is some approach 

 towards it in the bats. The gradual departure from this extreme 

 t3'^pe of mandibular articulation through the dogs, hyenas, and 

 bears does not affect the kind of figure which a certain point at 

 the end of the jaw will make in these cases. The movement which 

 produces a is that made in simpl}' opening and closing the month, 

 and the whole process of mastication is effected in this wa}' in 

 dogs, cats, pigs, hippopotami, bats, opossums, and all other 




1878.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 57 



bunodonts or their immediate allies. The figure 6, showing slight 

 lateral movement, is that made by Phacochoerus^ which is one of 

 the few pigs in which the teeth become worn perfectly plane on 

 the crowns, the surface of which is at right angles with tlie verti- 

 cal axis of the tooth. That at c is the figure described by the 

 tip of the mandible of the Tapir while feeding on hay and fresh 

 grass, showing that the texture of the aliment makes no change 

 upon the jaw movement. Fig. 4, c, may also be regarded as typi- 

 cal, with slight modification (a little oblique), of the kangaroos 

 and phalangers ; the molar teeth of which, also, strongly remind 

 one in some respects of those of the tapir. At d a theoretical 

 form is shown, so as to fill the gap between c and e, and which, 

 no dou])t, was exhibited at some stage of the transition from c to 

 e, Anchiiherium might be suggested as a probable case. That at 

 e is the figure observed in many species of both ruminants and 

 non-ruminating creatures. Several of the Ceru«V/as and the rhi- 

 noceros were observed to describe this kind of a figure, and from 

 its prevalence amongst ruminating animals, which I had the 

 opportunity to notice, I suspect that it is the commonest form. 

 The figure aty is that described by the giraffe, camel, and ox, in 

 which the extreme in respect to the degree of lateral excursion is 

 also reached. 



In respect to the movement of other groups, such as the rodents, 

 for instance, the movements were made with such rapidity that it 

 was with great difficulty that the form of the figure described by 

 some fixed point at the end of the mandible could be seen plainly 

 enough in the absence of a more perfect recording apparatus than 

 the e^'c of the observer. Enough was made out, however, to show 

 that the motions were often similar to those in the ungulates ; this 

 was especially observed in the rabbits and guinea pigs, where an 

 • alternate movement of the mandible was made first towards one 

 side and then towards the other, as in the camels. In Geo- 

 mys, ArvicolCi Fiber^ and numerous other rodents, the motion 

 of the mandibles when in contact, is believed to be from before 

 backwards, on account of the direction of the flexure of the mo- 

 lars, and the absence of cross-crests on their crowns. In the 

 elephants, however, it seems to be from behind forwards, just the 

 reverse of that noticed amongst some of the rodentia with the 

 absence of cross-crests, as in most of the latter. , 



It was this absence of cross-crests in the rodentia, together 

 5 




58 



PR0CKEDINO8 OF TIFK Af'APEMY OF 



[1878. 



with the isognathisni of tlic inodt'in elephants, and the presence 

 of salicMit cross-crests, with a well-marked anisognaliiism in 

 Trih)pho(Jo)i, Telralophodon^ Slego(lon,an(] Dinotherit<m,t\iiii has 

 led nic to infer that the mandible was moved from side to side in 

 these genera, just the reverse of what is the fact in the former. 



Fis. 5. 



a. Condyle and postorior portion of ramus of the mandible of Giraffe from above. 

 6. Same, external view. 



c. Same, posterior view. 



d. Samo of wild cat, inferior view. 



e. Wild-cat, side view. 



/. Same of Uydroeharus (water-hog), superior view. 

 g. Same as/, from the side. 



As some points in relation to the condyle and mandibular arti* 

 culation were discussed at the outset, I have thought it advisable 

 to figure some of the most distinct forms of this part, as seen in 

 widel}' separated groups. Fig. 5 represents the cond^'les of- 

 the mandibles of the giraffe, wild cat, and water hog. At a, 

 b, and c, one of the condyles of the giraffe is seen from the 

 above side and from the rear, respectively; it is seen to be 

 greatlj'^ elongated transversely', and internally concave from side 

 to side, perfectly fiat upon the outer two-thirds of its articular 

 face. We may associate this type of condyle with the kind 

 of figure described by the movement of this creature's mandible 

 in Fig. 4,/, or, we may state it as a principle, that, wliere the 

 condyle is greatly elongated transversely and very flat, there is 




1878.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 59 



great lateral excursion, during mastication, with selonodont 

 molars, and a great degree of anisognathism. It must not be 

 forgotten, however, that the type of condyle found to exist where 

 the lateral movement of the mandible is not so extensive, is also 

 less flattened and not so much elongated transversely, as will be 

 seen in the Tapir (see Fig. 4, c, for diagram of the movement). 

 In the rhinoceros (Fig. 4, e) the condyle is also less modified on 

 account of the lesser lateral movement. 



In the cats the characteristic cylindroid condyle (Fig. 5, d), 

 and tlie processes that partially clasp it anteriorly and posteriorly, 

 are shown in Fig. 5, e; again enforcing the relation subsisting 

 between condylar structure and jaw movement, Fig. 4, a. Here 

 again, as in the previous case, the structure is modified, as we 

 pass from the most specialized carnivorous group, cats, to the less 

 specialized dogs and seals, where the anterior and posterior pro- 

 cesses from the anterior and posterior boundaries of the glenoid 

 cavity are less salient. The idea lias suggested itself to me from 

 seeing tlie different modes in which the two groups, cats and seals, 

 feed, that the differences in the structure of the mandibular arti- 

 culation may have something to do with the manner in which 

 they tear their food into pieces small enough to swallow. The 

 cats hold the prey with the fore-feet, the incisor and canine 

 teeth are fastened upon some part, while the paws, with the aid of 

 the retractile claws, hold the pre}' securely down; the head is tiien 

 raised and thrown back, and in this way the tougli ligaments, 

 tendons, integuments, and muscles are torn apart into pieces 

 sufficiently small to be farther acted upon by the molars and • 

 swallowed. The seals, on the other hand, fasten the teeth upon 

 their prey (if a fisli, always head first), and with sudden lurches of 

 the head and body sidewise, with surprising velocity, the fish is 

 torn in two b}' means of the suddenness of the movement, the free 

 end being thrown several feet away, which is, however, very soon 

 recovered, and, if too large to swallow whole, is treated as before. 

 Now in the first case the strain incident to pulling back the head 

 b}' a number of powerful muscles, while the prey is held with the 

 paws, must tend to pull the condyles of the jaw out of the glenoid 

 cavities, which is prevented by the nature of the mandibular arti- 

 culation. In the case of the seals the method involves no for- 

 ward pull upon the jaws, but a principle in natural philosophy is 

 taken advantage of, by which, with no more expenditure of force. 




60 PROCEEDINUS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1878. 



the saino end is .iU:iiiie<l as l)y the cat. The sudden lurches give 

 the mass of the fish a great inonientiiin, wliicli is sudclenly arrested, 

 resulting in its breaking in two, when, with little chewing, the 

 piece iield by the teeth is swallowed, the throat seeming to be 

 surprisingly dilataljle. IJy what process a seal was ever cajjahle 

 of fatiioining an}' principle of i)h3'sics is more than I propose to 

 exi)l:iin, but sucli arc the facts. It maj^ be added that what holds 

 in respect to habits of tearing the food in the cats, also holds in 

 respect to the bears, Aveasel family, and raccoons, and in a less 

 degree in the dogs and hyenas. 



The condyle in the Hydrochcerus is exceedingly elongated, 

 the antero-posterior diameter of the condyle proper exceeding 

 twice its transverse diameter, which (its into a groove-like gle- 

 noid cavit}', looking somewhat as though it had been cut out 

 with a rabl)et plane. The sides of the groove are vertical, and at 

 right angles to the bottom; it is also longer than the condyle 

 proper, which is not by an}^ means neatl}^ adapted to fit it as is 

 usually tlie case. So marked is this artificial ai)pearance that the 

 first time I beheld it I made a careful examination to see if some 

 one bad not been carving it into what I thought was a fanciful 

 shape, as a trick to deceive. When the reversed inclination of the 

 teeth above and l)elow is noticed, together with the insertion of the 

 muscles, it is plain that the condyle has a reciprocating motion 

 in this groove (glenoid cavity), which goes a great way in ex- 

 planation of the shai)es of the teeth of certain aberrant groups of 

 rodents. Indeed I am satisfied, from tlie manner in which certain 

 rodents feed, and the wa\' in which their scalpriforra incisors are 

 inserted with the direction of their curve, that no other arrange- 

 ment would answer, since the jaw could not be sufficientl}' re- 

 tracted, as in the case of the beaver, to take betAveen his incisors 

 the great breadth of chip which he is able to cut at one bite.' I 

 have measured single tooth marks of this animal in wood If in. 

 long. 



Relation of the Lateral Excursion of the Mandible to Anisog- 

 nathinm. — As I have previously remarked that anisognathism was 

 an invariable accompaniment of lateral movement, it now remains 

 to substantiate this assertion by the following table. Bunodonts, 

 which stand first, may be set down as unmodified, while s^'m- 



' See Morgan, "The Americau Beaver aud his "Works," Lippiucott & Co., 

 Phila.,18G8, p. 17G. 




1878.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 



61 



borodonts, selenodonts, and tapirodonts, ma}- be regarded as 

 representing the extremes of dental metamorphosis due to the 

 persistent action of the forces exerted in mastication by these 

 latter, and which have been operative since the appearance of the 

 herbivora, the time of which I do not propose to indicate even 

 approximately. 



' The measurements were made from the external borders of the crowns 

 of the molars of one side to the external borders of the crowns of those of 

 the other side, at the anterior and posterior ends of both the upper and lOjWer 

 series. 




62 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[18V8. 



I append a series of similar measurements of primates, to fur- 

 ther enfoi'ce the idea that selenodont cusps are an accompaniment 

 of anisognathism and hiteral movement. The ani.sognathous ex- 

 treme is put first in Aluatla, or howling monkey, as an example; 

 the isognathous last, as in man. 




1878.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



63 



At Fig. 6, diagrammatic, transverse sections through the jaws 

 of several genera of mammals are shown: a, shows tlie isogna- 

 thous arrangement in Fiber zibefhicus ; b, the anisognathous 

 arrangement in Lepus cuniculus. These two show tlie extremes 

 in rodents ; in the first, the teeth of both sides are perfectly 

 parallel ; in the latter, neither are they i)arallel, nor are the series 

 of molars in opposite sides of the upper and lower jaws separated 

 b}' the same interval. Fiber^ in some respects, calls to mind the 

 dentition of bunodonts, while Lepus reminds one of the selenodont 

 system. The differences are here to be regarded as arising, in a 

 large measure, from the strains incident to mastication, as the 

 contact of the upper and lower molar teeth of Lepus always takes 

 place first upon the outer portion of the crown of lower ones, and 

 the inner portion of the crown of the upper ones; and after con- 

 tact the movement of the jaw is from within outwards, causing 

 the upper molars to be pressed outwards, and the lower molars 

 inwards, eventually causing the upper series to recede from each 

 other, and the lower series to approach each other, probably car- 

 rying the rami along in the changes. Nor does the change stop 

 here. The molars are apparently curved outwards above and in- 

 wards below from the same cause. 



Fig. 6. 





a 





Cross-sections through the maxillaiy apparatus of: — a. Fiber, b. Lepus. c. Dictylea. 

 d. Cervus. e. Ei/tius. 



The movement in Fiber is totall}' different, though at times 

 there are indications of lateral movement. It seems to be from 

 before backwards, or a reciprocating movement. 




64 riKiCEKDINCS OK TIIK ACADEMY OP [1878 



In Fig. r>, r, wc lifivG a (liaL'rnni of ;i transverse section of the 

 jaws of y><co////*'.s, wlierc, as in /'V/;^?-, the series are nearly' |)arallel 

 in both jaws, antl ncaily exactly isognatlioiis ; the jaws open and 

 close without a i)article of lateral motion. The food, in sucii a 

 case, is pounded as in a mortar, with a chopping motion of the 

 jaws. The anisognathous arrangement is represented in Fig. 0, d, 

 of C't'ruu.s, and e that of the horse ; both have extensive lateral 

 motion, with corresponding anisognathism ; the teeth are also, to 

 some extent, inclined outwards above, and inwards below, as ob- 

 served in regard to the dentition of Lepua. The method of 

 trituration is also very ditierent from Dicotylea. It is here ground 

 as in a mill, the reversed enamel patterns of the opposing molar 

 series simulating most closely some of the mechanical devices 

 used by man as grinding mills. The lower jaw, with its molars, 

 however, represents the millstone, and tlie upper the " bed- 

 stone" or surfiice u[)on which it acts with the glenoid cavity as 

 the point from whicli its oscillations are propagated. 



From the preceding tables of measurements the work of con- 

 structing a series showing the relation of mandibular movement 

 to anisognathism would be an easy task ; the movements would 

 in every case have to be observed, and in all cases where I have 

 been enabled to do so I have found this relation to subsist. We 

 are met, however, b^^ a most anomalous type of anisognathism 

 amongst the cavys, especially in Ccelogenys paca, where the in- 

 terval between the molars of opposite sides is greater for the lower 

 series than for the upper. The molars are, however, extensively 

 curved outwards above and inwards below. Indeed, the degree 

 of this curvature is more extensive in the molars of this animal 

 than in those of any other mammal with which I am familiar. 

 What the original relative position of these teeth ma}' have been 

 in their ancestry I do not know ; but it is plain that, if this curva- 

 ture had not taken place, the process of mastication could not be 

 accomplished at all, since, if the teeth were straight, t'hc}' could 

 scarcely be brought into adequate contact b}- even the most ex- 

 tensive lateral mandil)ular movement with which we are acquaint- 

 ed. It seems to me to be a fair inference that the}'^ were isogna- 

 thous, as most of the earlier forms seem to have been, and that 

 some cause — most probablj' the strains incident to mastication — 

 has been operative in inducing the change to the present form. 




18Y8.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 65 



There is evidence in the enamel foldings to show that the same 

 kind of strains were operative here as elsewhere. 



A matter which lias considerable interest in this connection, is 

 what I have ventured to call disjjlacement due to strains. Tlie 

 evidence is met with all through the anisognathous artiodactyla 

 and periosodactyla. The relative position of the molars and pre- 

 molars in Germis is shown 

 ■^^S- '''• in Fig. 7, a; the molars, 



c( \ )n)fillYTlfT^^ ■"""-• 1 ? 2, 3, are directly behind 



aS-[ Ui 'Ji./'MjV . each other ; they seem to 



I Ut— ^ have been shoved from 



im the line a' through a' 



and a'" until their outer 



borders have reached the 



^ line b ; the premolars, I., 



o^'^. /^N. II., III., have meanwhile 



""* -"'^ (iMt^ioa^u heen left with their inner 



jzr faces touching respective- 



i "i^i"^ "aT'*^-*'^ & ^y ^'^^ Vmes a', a", a'". 



„,"',., , , The outer faces of the 



Upper figure, external view of upper molars of 



Cervus. Middle figure, lower molar series of right premolars are parallel tO 



side of same, not displaced, and lower figure, left fhp lino h IS thoucrh the 

 upper molars of same, greatly displaced. '^ 



displacing force had acted 

 equally upon the anterior and posterior portions upon the 

 inner side. This displacement is uniformly the greatest in the 

 later forms, most anisognathous, and with greatest lateral excur- 

 sion of the mandible. In the molars of the mandible, c, no siich 

 displacement occurs as noticed in the upper molars; the reason 

 seems to be that the lower teeth, confined as they are to the 

 narrow ramus, cannot undergo such displacement. The force of 

 the mandible always actnig to push the upper teeth outwards, 

 since they always first come into contact upon the inner border 

 of the crowns of the upper molars and the outer of the lower ones, 

 would also react powerfully, during mastication, upon the lower 

 molars, tending to push them inwards, and approximate the series 

 (rami) of opposite sides. The molar series of the mandible of the 

 giraffe are, as a whole, slightlj^ convex internally; the reverse of 

 the upper series, which is convex externally. The reversal of this 

 convexity is in keeping with every other character. The ^lis- 

 placement seems to be greatest where the masticatory muscles 




66 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACAD?:MY OP 



[IStS. 



can fxft with tlic greatest force — that is, nearest the articulation 

 of the mandible with the skull. Amongst rodents having a re- 

 ciprocating motion of the mandible this displacement of one part 

 of the series, while others remain undisturbed, is not veiy great 

 where onl^- the backward and forward reciprocating movement is 

 present, but sometimes lateral movements are also executed which 

 causes displacement in two directions in both upper and lower 

 molar series. Usually the changes could not be called displace- 

 ment, but rather a bending or deflection of the teeth in two direc- 

 tions, either backward and outward, or forward and inward. The 

 first condition is usually found in the upper molars, and the 

 second in the mandibular molars of rodents. 



Fi.sr. 8. 



"^^ 



a. A last upper and a first lowor molar Arvicoln. b. Diagram of molai-s of Fiher, show- 

 ing plane triturating surface of molars, c. Undifferentiated haflodont teeth of Delpliinva. 

 d. Diagram of an opposing series of one side of Cervus, showing the mode of intercalation of 

 cross-crests, e. Upper and lower molar series of Geomyn, showing the first upiier and last 

 lower molars more compressed. /. Side vii'w of dentition of Geomys, showing the implan- 

 tation and opposite inclination of opposing series. 



The obliteration of the transverse crests of the teeth of rodents 

 with reciprocating motion of the mandible is shown in Fig. 8, h 

 {Fiber); also the opposite inclinations of the upper and lower 

 molars, ai)parentl3' due to the reciprocating movement and the 

 strain incident to the teeth in the execution of such movement 

 during mastication. The same opposite inclination is observed in 

 the molars of Oeomys at /, but more pronounced. The greater 

 flattening of the columnar molars, anteriorly in the upper series, 

 and posteriorly of the lower series at e and /, is due apparently 

 to the same cause. At <7, Fig. 6, the molars of Ceruus are shown 

 with their deep transverse valleys and cross-crests, showing the 

 persistence of this arrangement where the mandibular movement 




18*78.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 67 



is entirely lateral. At c the alternating, interlocking, haplodont 

 teeth of Delphijius are shown almost entirely prehensile, not 

 having attained the specialization of molars. The recent probos- 

 cidians, with their numerous transverse enamel plates, are simply 

 the more compressed, transverse crests of Triloj^hodon and Te- 

 tralophodon in greater numbers. The crests, in a young state of 

 the teeth, are present, but are afterwards worn off to a common 

 level from the movement of the mandible from behind forwards. 



The curious analogy of the method in which the succession and 

 wear of the molars and cross-crests takes place in ungulates and 

 proboscidians is worth noticing; in the former, the first and 

 most anterior true molar is most worn ; in the latter, the anterior 

 cross-crests in both mastodons and elephants are the first to be 

 worn, the heel or posterior part of the tooth remaining frequently 

 totally unused. The succession of molars, vertical and horizon- 

 tal, secures the same results in both. The first true molar of 

 ruminants is the first to be protruded; its anterior pair of cusps, 

 as well as those of its fellows behind, are most worn and longest, 

 so that a mere increase in the number of transverse pairs of cusps 

 heterochronously protruded, would give us practically the same 

 result as the horizontally succeeding molars of pro1)Oscidians. 



I cannot dismiss this subject without a reference to the skull 

 of an Australian in the Morton collection of the Academy of 

 Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, Xo. 1327, with 35 teeth, 34 of 

 which are normally arranged, there being a supernumerar}' molar 

 on each side above. If tliese had been repeated in the mandible, 

 the dentition would have been as low as that of the South American 

 monkeys. As it is, it is lower than the gOrilla and chimpanzee in 

 this respect, and shows the tendency of even primates to revert 

 towards the i)rimitive formula of 44 teeth prevalent in eocene 

 times.' The jaws are massive, with a most pronounced pithecoid 

 squareness in front, its prognathism being in marked contrast with 

 the beautiful orthognathous skull of the European. Tlie point, 

 however, which has a practical bearing, is the fine state of the 

 teeth and their massiveness as compared with the teeth of the 



' In a skull of Ateles geoffroyi from South America, I have observed 

 that there were ten teeth in the upper lefl-haiid maxillaries, a number 

 which, if it had been repeated all round, would have given forty teeth as 

 the formula, which is within four of the arclietypal forty-four. Lenfurs 

 have the thirty-six, in common with the lower South American monkeys. 




G8 PROCEEDINfiK OF THE ACADEMY OF [1878. 



higher races. The incisors are fully twice the mass of those of the 

 present mnn, and the molars show an almost eqnail}' great develop- 

 ment. In explanation of this we have not far to look. We are 

 informed by various anthorities' that these people were totally 

 ignorant of boiling, but that everything was roasted, or even 

 eaten raw, which involved more work for the teeth than falls to 

 their lot now-a-da3's, and which must powerfull}' react upon their 

 development. If, as we believe, and as the facts warrant us in 

 believing, that the dental armature becomes more massive as 

 strains become more frequent and severe through the passage and 

 survival of herbivorous types from eocene to modern times, it is 

 almost equally certain that, in the event of the introduction of 

 cookery, witii its constantly increasing refinements, there must 

 be a diminished amount of strain upon the teeth, tending to cause 

 atrophy or degeneration. 



Cusp-Shaping Forces. — We now come to the consideration of 

 the way in which the cusps of the teeth have been modified hy the 

 various mandibular movements, culminating in the crescentoid 

 form and its modifications. We have assumed, as we have had 

 evidence for doing, that man}' of the parts associated in the func- 

 tion of mastication were greatly- modified and brought to their 

 present shape by mechanical resistances incident to the perform- 

 ances of sucii function, our next purpose will be to show that a 

 similar process has been silently and powerfully at work in the 

 shaping of the cusps. I am aware that some of the points taken 

 might be called anatomical platitudes, but I believe also that these 

 same have never yielded the meaning they were capable of yield- 

 ing, except to one who would coordinate the peculiarities of struc- 

 ture in special cases with their correlative influence upon habit. 

 But in order to induce changes in the mechanical arrangements of 

 the active and passive elements of organic structures some change 

 in a creature's surroundings must take place over which it has no 

 control. Such changes may be specified as meteorological, cli- 

 matic, floral, faunal, geologic, and telluric. It is scarcely worth 

 while to point out the antagonistic relations which life sustains 



• Herbert Spencer, Sociological Tables, Pt. I. A., Tab. IV. ; and, bear- 

 in2; more or less directly upon this point, see Dr. E. Lambert's paper on 

 the Morphology of the Dentary System in the Human Races, in Bull. 

 TAcad. Royale de Bclgique, 46e Anuee, No. 5, 1877 ; Abstr. in Am. Journ. 

 Science, vol. xiv. 1877, p. 323. 




18T8.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 69 



to its surroundings since geology and palseontologj' afford sucli 

 abundant evidence of the constant struggles on the i)art of life to 

 cope withtlie altered conditions. To all acquainted with the lead- 

 ing facts of geographical distribution of animals and plants it is 

 well known that some of the most intimate relations exist between 

 flora and fauna, fauna and fauna, flora and fauna and climate, 

 how that elevation due to geologic changes affects climate, and 

 how that telluric changes (orbital), preponderating over all else, 

 should modify all the others, as Prof. CrolP would have us 

 believe. 



I believe that the changes in these great elements of surround- 

 ing conditions may have been adequate to produce either the 

 annihilation or the divergence and survival of organic types. 

 Those creatures which were not in harmony no doubt were often 

 destroyed in affecting the readjustment, because in some the adjust- 

 ments could not be brought about quickly enough to prevent the 

 fatal waste of efforts in overcoming greatly unbalanced relations. 

 Those that overcame this readjustment survived with modifica- 

 tions. Then, again, there may have been no sudden modifications, 

 but slow changes to which organisms could readily adapt them- 

 selves ; and, again, there is no telling how much intelligence may 

 have had to do in the struggle, yet there is very little that can be 

 predicated in respect to this by brain-bulk, because if such in- 

 stances as the beaver, the bee, and the ant are cited, it is at once 

 seen that, even supposing the bulk of brains to augment as recent 

 times are approached, it is not altogether safe to lay too much 

 stress upon brain-mass as an index of intelligence. 



The divergence of the educabilian orders of mammalian verte- 

 brates from a forty-four toothed bunodont type with five toes is 

 held by the most eminent authorities. The prevalence of these 

 two characters in eocene mammalia witli their gradual disappear- 

 ance through later forms is one of the strongest arguments in 

 favor of the theoiy of descent. The gradual increase in the length 

 of the diastemata between molars and incisors from none at all in 

 many eocene forms to the immense interval between the two in 

 such forms as the horse and giratfe is the first point. Another is 

 the prevalent departure from primeval pentadact3'lism towards 

 monodactylism, or its equivalent, by the fusion of one or more 



' Climate and Time, Jas. CroU. London, 1875. 




to PKOCEKDINOS OF TllK ACADEMY OF [1878. 



parts into a singU' one, as, for cxamitU', tho horse and arliodactyl 

 ruminants. The teinUMicy to nionodact3lism, it is believed, is due 

 to the strains incident to h)coinoti(jn atFecting the growtli and 

 nutrition of these jiarts. It would, therefore, seem that, eonsider- 

 ing the weiglit of opinion upon the origin of diastemata and mono- 

 dactylisni, that the teetli shouhl likewise, as characters of secon- 

 darj' morphic and systematic value, and so admirably conditioned 

 for great modification, manifest very sensibl}' the influence of such 

 conditioning forces. 



If environments affect choice of food, etc., it must follow, as a 

 necessary consequence, that different methods of prehension and 

 comminution must be employed in different animals to correspond 

 with the nature of the food, which would effect corresponding 

 dental differentiations. These, in turn, make further differentia- 

 tions, which are successively fixed by the law of heredity-, less 

 difficult in succeeding generations, until extremes are reached. 

 This is just what we have tried to show in the two extreme types 

 of mandibular movement, vertical and lateral, and that the former 

 passes gradually into the other just as it can be shown that the 

 bunodont type of tooth graduall}' passes into the selenodont. Two 

 or three stages of cusp modification are sometimes observed in the 

 same tooth, while as many as six or eight or more tooth modifi- 

 cations may be counted in the teeth of the whole series. 



Odonlomorphic Centres. — While making measurements of the 

 skulls in the collection of the Academy some curious facts were 

 elicited. It was observed, that, if a pair of dividers were taken, 

 placing one point on the glenoid cavity of the skull or condyle of 

 the mandible, the curvature of the cross-crests and intervening 

 vallej^s of tiie molars of the same side would exactl}' coincide with 

 that produced by a sweep of the free point of the dividers across 

 them. The same rule was found to hold good in regard to the 

 other side of the skull. We were not long, however, in finding 

 that this rule was not universal among selenodonts; that there 

 were some in which such a coincidence could not be obtained by 

 the method described. It was then observed in these other cases 

 that, if one leg of the dividers was placed on the posterior end of 

 the basi-sphenoid bone, opposite to and midway between the gle- 

 noid cavities, for tlie superior molar series, and midway' between 

 the condyles for the mandibular molars, the arc described by 

 the point of the free leg would now coincide in the curvature 




1878.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



71 



with the cross-crests and bottoms of the valleys of the molars of 

 both sides when produced across their crowns. 



It is proposed for convenience to designate the teeth, the cross- 

 crests of which coincide in curvature with arcs described respec- 

 tively from the right and left glenoid cavities as centres, for the 

 molars of these sides respectively, as biaxial; and those where the 

 centre of this coincident arc is medial on the basi-sphenoid bone, 

 or midway betwixt tlie condyle, as uniaxial. The centres ma}' be 

 named odontomorphic, or tooth shaping, since the}' are the fulcra 

 which control the forces which slowl}^ modif}' the shapes of the 

 teeth and their component tubercles. The biaxial molar is by far 

 the commonest. I have observed it in the following orders : Eden- 

 tata, Sirenians, Proboscidians, Rodents, Perissodactyles, Artio- 

 dactyles, H3u-acoidea, and Marsupials. The following is a list of 

 some of the observed genera of both classes : — 



Biaxial. Uniaxial. 



Ovis. 



Alee. Tragulus. 



Cervns. Hj'omoschus. 



Antilocapra. Moschus. 



Alcelaphus. Amphitragulus. 



Antilope. Leptomeryx. 



Gazella. 



Auchenia. 



Camelus. 



Sivatherium. 



Bos. 



Titanotherium. 



Eqiuis. 



Tapirus. 



Phalangista. 



Phascolomys, 



Trilophodon. 



Nototherium. 



Megatherium. 



Hyrax. 



Dasyprocta. 



It will be observed that the Tragulidse monopolize the uniaxial 

 plan, though Cervus columbianiis is very nearly uniaxial. 



In Fig. 9, representing diagrammatically the mechanism of mas- 

 tication in selenodonts, the curvilinear path of the excursion of *he 

 mandibular series of molars, as well as the reversal of the selenoid 




73 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1878. 



F'g- ^- cusps of the upper .and 



lower series respectively 

 with the ideal odoiitotnor- 

 phit; centre, O, in the man- 

 dibuhir articulation, the 

 gist of the wliole matter 

 of tooth modification l)e- 

 comcs plain. It is ob- 

 served tliat opposite those 



Ideal dia'-'ram, showing the mode in which the partS wllich liaVO the 

 lower uiolai- series, rt, s wi-eps over tlie upper series, b. 



The niovoiiieut heing constantly regulated from the greatest trailSVCrsC (liam- 

 maudibulararticuUlion, or odontomorphic centre, 0. etcr, Or wllicll arC Strong- 

 est of tiie oi)posing series, 

 b, impinge upon their fellows, a, of the opposite series at the weak- 

 est points, or those parts iiaving the least transverse diameter, 

 and vice versa. Jt looks as thougli the strains incident to masti- 

 cation lias pressed the sides of the cusps of tlie teeth flat, and 

 curved their cornu outwards in the upper series, aftd inwards in 

 the lower, by the oft-repeated excursion in one direction. The 

 action of the parts in life appears to be constant, that is, the 

 molars of the mandibles of the right side always moving outwards 

 when crushing the food, and tlie same of the side opposite. The 

 movements are often, for many minutes in succession, made in 

 the same direction, then in the other. It is found, upon careful 

 observation, that the animal chews upon one side at a time, 

 changing to the otlier apparently for the purpose of resting. Tiiis 

 also accords with the observations of physiologists, that the sali- 

 vary glands of opposite sides in ruminants and other herbivora 

 perform their function alternately with greater vigor, depending 

 for their periods of activity and repose upon tlie alternate use 

 and disuse of the teeth of the corresponding side in mastication. 



A series of tubercles are sketched in Fig. 10, showing the 

 gradual transition from the unmodified bunodout, a, to the ex- 




1878.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 73 



treme selenodont, e and f. The cusp, a, is the tj'pe observed in 

 the early Miocene genus Entelodon^ or in Pliolophus of the Eocene; 

 6, an external cusp of an upper molar of Leptochoerus ; d, an ex- 

 ternal cusp of an earl}' ruminant {Oreodon) ', e, outer and inner 

 anterior cusps of a 3'oung Gervus^ sijortly before protrusion from 

 tlie alveolus ; and /", a premolar of Goryphodon. A host of ad- 

 ditional examples might be given to enforce the idea meant to be 

 conveyed, but which would simpl3'be repeating with another series 

 of species what has already been indicated, and which can be 

 fully confirmed hy reference to works of Leidy, Kowalewsky, and 

 Cope on Tertiary mammalia. 



I am aware that Goryphodon is an early form, occurring in the 

 Eocene formation, and is perhaps not as well chosen a case to 

 illustrate the modern extreme as might have been selected. This 

 is, however, a superficial objection, since the crowns are very 

 short, with the short roots characteristic of the mammalia of early 

 periods. It seems to be simply a case in which the modifications 

 took place with greater rapidity than in later species. If the 

 whole order of ungulates did not concur in the evidence which 

 they yield, an objection might be raised, but in all of them the 

 reverse direction of the cornu of the cusps of opposing series is 

 the same; in all the mandibular movement is either lateral, or 

 becoming so ; almost every famil}'- of them shows a progressive 

 intensification of these characters, and it would seem that no fur- 

 ther evidence were needed to show that the necessary actions of an- 

 animal modify most prof oundly the form of even the very hardest- 

 of its tissues. 



It is proposed to close the discussion with the consideration of 

 a few special cases of the various methods of cusp-blending, wear, 

 and flexure. In all the selenodont mammals the flexure of the 

 cornu of the inner cusps and their lengthening in the upper molars 

 and the outer below is greatest, evidently due to the fact that the 

 strains incident to mastication are more powerfully exerted upon 

 these, and less powerfully upon their fellows on the opposite side 

 of the tooth. The deep flexure of the enamel layer, verticall}- and 

 medially on the inner side of the upper molars and the outer of 

 the lower Ones, is another fact to be noted in man}' instances as 

 due to the same causes. The jutting outwards of the cornu of the 

 external cusps of the upper molars, and inwards of the intei^jial 

 6 




74 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1878. 



ones in the lower series, is anollier fact c;i|t:il)li' of :i siniihir expla- 

 nation. 



1 apprehend that the plieate enamel layers in the dentition of 

 the horse, of Hii-athe.rium^ and to some extent in the ox and deer, 

 may ha aeconnted for in the same wa}-^ ; for in these the plication 

 is most marked at siieh points as are manifestly, according to our 

 theor^^, subject to the severest strains. In Fig. 11, «, the enamel 



Fiff. 11. 



pattern of the upper molar of Equus excelsus, and b, the enamel 

 pattern of an undetermined species of horse (both from Leid}'), 

 show this plication of the anterior and posterior transverse enamel 

 walls of the islands in a marked degree. The plication is greatest 

 in a line parallel with the direction of the strains exerted during 

 mastication. Another circumstance is the greater inclination of 

 the inner cusp of the upper molars outwards, and of the outer 

 ones below inwards, which is so common amongst selenodont ungu- 

 lates, that I think it is almost without exception. The great width 

 also of the posterior molars in selenodont mammals maj' be ac- 

 counted for in a great measure bj' supposing molar force as ade- 

 quate cause of such increased transverse diameter. This view is 

 supported in a measure by the relatively equal transverse diameter 

 of the molars at both ends of the series in bunodont, isognatiious 

 mammals. There seems to have been a phylogenetic metamorphosis 

 of molars and premolars, wliich proceeded with greatest ra[)idity 

 nearest tlie mandibular articulation, where the modifj'ing forces 

 were also applied with the greatest mechanical effect. The man- 

 dibular masticatory apparatus of mammals ma}' be regarded as 

 levers of tlie third class, in which the glenoid cavity is the ful- 

 crum, the muscular force exerted by the masticatory muscles the 

 power, and the resistance of the food to the teeth in crushing it 

 the weiglit. Since the coefficient of muscular force is 104 pounds 




1818.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 15 



per square inch of transverse section,' it is easy to surmise ■what 

 would be tlie tendencj' of the exertion of the force of many square 

 inches in section of masticatory muscle upon the jaws and teeth in 

 mastication. It would manifestly not be consumed in the mere 

 comminution of the food, but it must also react upon the struc- 

 tures which were directly subjected to the resulting strains, viz., 

 the teeth. In a mammal as large as the rhinoceros the area Occu- 

 pied by the mandibular teeth is about 5 square incites, while the 

 maxillary teeth occupy about 10 square inches, as I have roughly 

 estimated from a skull nearly adult; the ratio then of the tritu- 

 rating surfaces of the upper and lower series is about as one is to 

 two. These ratios increase apparently as anisognathism increases, 

 and conversely become equal as isognathism prevails; that is, we 

 may select a perisodactyl, such as the rhinoceros, or an artio- 

 dactj-l, such as Bos, to represent one extreme, and the universal 

 pig as the other. 



It will be observed that I have made no attempts at construct- 

 ing phylogenetic tables, a favorite pursuit with some recent natu- 

 ralists; tills is because I am not satisfied in regard to the value 

 of ciiaracters as indicating affinities. I appreciate these most tho- 

 roughly, but believe that modifications may be greatly accele- 

 rated or retarded by alterations in surroundings over which a 

 modifiable organism has no control, so that the differential effects 

 (generic and specific characters of s^'stematists), produced in a 

 given time, may differ greatly in value — their true value being 

 estimated in terms of force — some requiring but half as much time 

 for their production as others. The possible morphological effects 

 of like mechanical conditions are illustrated in turtles and glj-pto- 

 dons, where the rigid exoskeleton has caused the originally seg- 

 mented axial skeleton to show a strong tendency to revert to tiie 

 primitive homogeneous condition without losing its osseous cha- 

 racter. The exoskeleton has in fact |>artially assumed the' part 

 taken by the chitinous envelope in the organization of the Artic- 

 xilata. "We may regard the relations here pointed out as the 

 complementary principle demonstrating Spencer's theory of the 

 segmentation of the vertebral axis,' because it must be allowed that 

 opposite conditions must produce opposite effects. 



'Animal Mechanics, Dr. Saml. Haughton. London, 1873, p. 71 ; The 

 Principle of Least Action in Nature (Three Lectures), Loudon, 1871, p'lO. 

 2 Principles of Biology, New York, 1867. 




7('i PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACAPEMY OF [1878. 



Appendix on the Atrophy and llij per trophy of Incisors. — With- 

 out stop[)iiig to consider the fircliet3'pal or normal forms, the 

 principal groups which manilest the extremes of motlilication of 

 the incisive elements may be tal)nhvlcd as follows : — 



' ■ '■ IIvi)crlroi>liicd incisors with special fiinclions. 



Ta-niodoiita. ) 



Piobosciclca. Greatly hypertrophied, becoming weapons of offence 



and defence ; function assumed l)y a proboscis. 



Dinocerati. ) More or less atrophied ; function assumed by llio lips, 



I{liinocerotida\ i or a short proboscis. 



Ruminantia. Upper incisors absent ; function partially assumed Ijy 



the tongue and muscles of the neck. 



Edentata. No incisoi-s ; function partially' or entirely assumed by 



the tongue. 



As is now believed,* the great specialization of the median in- 

 cisors of rodents is due to the severe work to which they are 

 persistently applied during the pli3^1ogeny of the group, but the 

 extreme of hypertrophy is reached in the Froboscidea, where it 

 has been so extensive as to render the teeth useless in the per- 

 formance of their primary function, which has been exchanged for 

 a new one, viz., a defensive function, while the primary one has 

 been assumed by the greatly developed proboscis used both as a 

 drinking horn and as a hand to grasp and wrench vegetable ali- 

 ment from its attachment and convey' it to the mouth. A fact 

 which points to the conclusion that the tusks of the elephant were 

 once functional incisors is the presence of more or less rudimen- 

 tary bands of enamel on the tusks of several fossil species, appa- 

 rently the remains of what once were functional parts of these 

 teeth. The diflerence in shape of the nasal opening, and indeed 

 of the whole anterior portion of the skull of Dinolherium and the 

 same parts in the Elephants and Mastodons, renders it ver3' cer- 

 tain that there was a wide diflerence between the two in the shape, 

 and perhaps also in the length of proboscis. l>ut such dilierences 

 alone will not account for the evolution of the long prehensile 

 proboscis, nor is the shortness of the neck (cervical portion of the 

 vertebral column), and the accompanying elevation of the mouth 

 from the level of the ground, any help, because these are both 

 effects dei)ending for their origin upon the initiation of the devel- 

 opment of such a proboscis. It is, therefore, necessary that we 



' Tome's Dental Anatomy, Philada., 187G, p. 250. 




18Y8.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 77 



look in the direction of some earlier and more generalized form as 

 a starting point from which it is possible to derive the organ so 

 characteristic of Proboscidians. In this position I find I am in 

 accord with Prof. Cope, who has stated his views upon tiiis matter 

 more or less distinctly at several places in his extensive writings.^ 

 My reasons, based wholly on teleological evidence, for not believ- 

 ing tlie Dinocerata to be in tlie direct ancestral line which cnlmi- 

 nated in the elephants, is the presence in tlie former of a variable 

 number of pairs of horns, and in Dinoceras the great pair of upper 

 laniary teeth are written down as canines by Profs. Leidy, Cope, 

 and Marsh, which, with the absence of upper incisors, gives us no 

 probable beginnings that may be regarded as homologous with the 

 tusks of Elephas. However, the tusks of Prohoscidea^ as now 

 known from fossil forms, iiave been extensively modified in size, 

 situation, and direction of curvature. We ma}^ state the modifi- 

 cations as to implantation of the tusks (incisors) in tlie various 

 forms, thus : — 



Diuotberium. I. 



1 — 1 



Mastodon Anscwstideus, -^ 



^ § \ 1 



M. lono:irostris, > I. 



M. productus, etc. / 



Elephas, sp. I. -^^ — 

 ^ ' 0—0 



From the tenor of the foregoing facts, I am led to conclude 

 that, with the disappearance of the primary functions of the inci- 

 sors in Proboscidians, and tlieir assumption of a secondary defen- 

 sive one, the proboscis was gradually developed, while the moutli, • 

 as it became piore elevated from the level of the ground by the 

 shortening of the neck and the assumption of the long, gravi- 

 gradous pillar-like limbs, were assisting factors in the process. 

 Whatever was the cause of the incisors becoming weapons of de- 

 fence was the cause of the initiation of a process of development 

 of the external nasal organ, resulting in its present structure and 

 importance. There was probably no organ so directly available 

 as what was then a rudimentary proboscis, seeing that all otlier 

 parts (limbs), probably by reason of the animal's bulk, must sub- 



' U. S. Geolog. Surv. Terr., Gtli Annual Report, Washington, 1873, p. 

 647 ; U. S. Geograph. Surv. W. of the lOOtli Meridian, vol. iv. 187?, p. 

 2^2. 




78 PROUEEDINOB OF TIIK ACAItKMV OP [1878. 



serve purposes of locomotion. Furtlier, after once luiving reached 

 that stage which made the incisors available as weapons, we can 

 understand how the violent uses to which these parts were and 

 are put only served to carry tlie hypertrophy still further, 



1'he JJinocerata and Jfliinoceruiulie present a case where the 

 partial assumption of the incisive function liy a very flexible and 

 powerful lip has reacted upon the development of the incisors, 

 causing them to become rudimentar}'. 1 infer from the lather 

 elevated and thickened nasal bones of the Dinocerata that these 

 creatures had a long protrusible upi)er lip, if not a short pi'oboscis, 

 and the ol)served correlation between such osteological conforma- 

 tion and i)rotrusible lip in living forms is still further evidence ; 

 so is the fact that, in a form (Pahxo.'<ijops) allied to the genus 

 Tit an other ium^ the nasals are strongly produced as in the 'J'apir, 

 to which it is also allied. 1 think it improbable that Dinoceras 

 possessed a prehensile tongue, a view contradicted by the rela- 

 tivel}^ immobile upper lip, with two or three exceptions, of the 

 ruminantia, that are similarly without upper incisors. The horse 

 with his prehensile upper lip has not been considered, but we find, 

 upon observation, that the power he exerts with it is very feeble, 

 and acts rather as a collecting apparatus for the purpose of bring- 

 ing herbage within reach of his incisors, the most complex, with 

 one exception, in the whole mammalian sub-kingdom, "^ilie pro- 

 boscis of the Tapir is likewise only a grasping instrument, and 

 seems to be used solely for the purpose of fetching its aliment 

 within reach of the incisors, which are well developed. It may 

 also be observed that the earlier and more unspecialized forms of 

 hornless rhinoceroses had narrower nasal bones with the incisors 

 more fully developed, with probably less effective grasping lips, 

 similar to the horse. 



In the ruminants the absence of the upper incisors seems to me 

 to be correlated with the prehensile tongue, the lower incisors 

 acting as a knife edge, while a bunch of heritage is heltl fast bj- 

 bringing the premaxillary pad above down upon it so as to bind 

 it firmly against the lower incisors, when it is readih' severed 

 from its attachment by tossing the head forwards and upwards. 



The Britta or Edentata are b^- far the most remarkable group 

 illustrating the interdependence of incisors and a preliensile appa- 

 ratus, which, in this case, seems invariably to be the tongue. In 

 the edentulous ant-eaters of both continents all the teeth are 




1878.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 19 



aborted. A bird-like character is assumed in one instance {Myre- 

 mecophaga)^ in which the pyloric end of the stomach becomes 

 gizzard-like, small pebbles being found within. The extinct and 

 recent sloths, as well as armadillos, have long prehensile tongues, 

 which, it is believed explains their want of incisors. Brehm says 

 ( Thierleben) the tongue of tlie living sloth is used like a hand, and 

 Owen thinks the tongue of Megatherium was prehensile. From 

 what I have seen of living armadillos I have reason to believe that 

 the Hojjlophoindas were similarlj' possessed of prehensile tongues. 

 The well-developed hyoids of this group, as Prof. Burraeister' has 

 . represented them, would also favor this view. It may be objected 

 to our explanation that no fossil Edentata have been found loith 

 incisors, which should be the case if our theory is the correct one; 

 to this we may reply that so far no Edentata have been described 

 from South America older than early pliocene, so tliat we may 

 look with some degree of confidence for the future discovery of 

 forms with the I'equired incisors or their rudiments from the 

 eocene or miocene of that great continent. A group so sharply 

 defined as the Edentata will then have shared the fate of some of 

 the others which were considered as isolated, with irreconcilable 

 chasms intervening, until, tlianks to the labors of American palifi- 

 ontologists, such have been in a large measure filled up. That the 

 want of incisors in existing edentates is no proof of their absence 

 in the forms from which they were derived, receives some support 

 from the fact that rudimentary teeth have been found in the 

 embrj'os of toothless whales, and also, as should be expected in 

 embr3'0, Trionychidae^ a low group of the Testudinata, if, as has 

 been held, these latter are remotelj^ allied to the toothed croco- 

 dilians. 



The following summary of the views arrived at in the foregoing 

 pages is offered: — 



1. That the earliest and simplest t^'pe of mammalian jaw-move- 

 ment was that in which the mouth was simply opened and closed, 

 without mandibular excursion, and coexistent Avith the simple 

 haplodont or bunodont molar. 



2. That the development of the various kinds of excursive 

 mandibular movement has apparentl}' been progressive. 



' Anales del Museo Publico. Buenos Ayres, 1866-73. 




80 PROOEEDINOS OF THE ACADKMY OF [1878. 



3. That as tlie excursive moveuu'iits liave increased in com- 

 plexity tiiere has been an apparent increase in the eoniplcxil}- of 

 the enamel foUlintiis, ridges, and crests. 



4. From the fact that the foldings, etc., have apparcntl}' hcen 

 modified in conformit}' to tiie ways in which the force used in 

 mastication was exerted, it is concluded tliat the various modes 

 of crest and tubercular modification are related as elfccts to the 

 diverse modes of mandibidar movement. 



5. It is ai)parciit from the facts presented throughout the con- 

 text that the mandil)ular articulations, and correlatively the Avhole 

 skull, have probabl}' lieen modified in shajje by the movements 

 made by the jaws and the forces exerted in executing them. 



6. From the fact that incisor teeth are partially or entirely 

 absent or relegated to another function in forms which have lonu: 

 prehensile tongues, mobile, prehensile lips or proboscides, it is 

 held to be probable that such disai)pcarance of the incisive dental 

 elements is due to the assumption of their function by the pre- 

 hensile origans indicated. 




18T8.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 81 



ON THE ASSOCIATION OF GROSSULARITE, ZOISITE, HEULANDITE, AND 

 LEIDYITE— A NEW SPECIES. 



BY PROFESSOR GEORGE A. KONIG. 



On Criim Creek, just above Chester, Delaware Count}', Penn- 

 sylvania, the gneiss formation has been kept opened for many 

 years by the quarries of Messrs. Deshong. The gneiss shows here 

 a granitoid structure, Avith just enough of mica to produce a very 

 straight fracture, combining thus the toughness of granite with the 

 easier workability of the gneiss. The stratification strikes nearly 

 north and south, while the dip is almost vertical. Seams of coarse- 

 grained granite are frequent in the granitoid gneiss, carrying, 

 occasionally, crystals of Orthoclose, black Tourmaline, and Beryl 

 of unusual size and beauty. In the eastern part of the quarry, 

 the structure of the gneiss is schistose, in fact, the rock is more 

 properly called mica schist, the feldspathic element receding con- 

 siderabi}'-. This rock is interstratified with seams of gray quartz, 

 and in blasting one of these seams recently, near the foot of the 

 cliff, which is here about forty feet high, Mr. A. 0. Deshong ob- 

 served minerals, the like of which the quarry had never produced 

 before. I am much indebted to Mr. Deshong's liberalit}', who 

 placed this entire material in my hands. Through the falling of 

 top rock the spot is now covered; but it will be reopened in the 

 spring, and more materials of interest may be expected by miner- 

 alogists. Some of the specimens have a very pleasing appearance 

 through the contrast of the green, brownish-j^ellow, and rose 

 color of the associated minerals. 



1. Grossularite. a. Yelloiv Variety. — In well-defined crystals, 

 some two centimetres and more in diameter. Form chiefly the 

 rhombic dodecahedron, oo in combination with 202. One crystal 

 entirely embedded in quartz is elongated, and easily mistaken for a 

 tetragonal form. Mostly granular massive. Color from brownish- 

 to amber-yellow. Lustre vitreous ; fatt}' on the fracture. Trans- 

 parent. H = 6. Spec. gr. = 3.637 at 20° C. 



Chemical Characters. — The mineral fuses at 3 to a brownish or 

 sliglitly greenish glass. With soda and borax in O.Fl manganese 

 reaction. Not acted upon by hydrochloric acid, either before or 

 after ignition. The white powder turns straw-color when igniCed. 




82 PROCEEDINGK OF THE ACA1>EMV OF [1878. 



100.02 



Tlicse quotients furnish the ratio: — 



Si : Al : Ca = 2.940 : 1.00 : 2M^. 

 Or 



Ca3 Al Sij 0,.,. 



b. Greenish Variety. — Not observed in cry.stals. Massive granu- 

 lar. Color light grass-green to nearly white, the two varieties 

 seem to pass into one another. I observed some striated planes, 

 and thought they might belong to the following species of Zoisite, 

 I'ut fragments placed in the flame did not show intumescence, and 

 fused like the 3-ellow variety. Lustre on fracture less fatty than in 

 the yellow vai'iety. Highly transparent. H=6. Spec. gr. 3.238. 



Chemical Characters. — P"'uses at 3, and with the fluxes gives 

 strong manganese reaction. Xot materiall}' attacked by hydro- 

 chloric acid either before or after ignition. 



Composition according to an analysis made by my assistant, 

 Mr. K. B. Chipman. 



Quotient. 



SiO., =39.08 Si =0.G.j04 0.6504 



Al.,03 =23.20 Al =0.22481 Q 3098 



FeA = .80 Fe= 0.00.^0 J 



FeO = .80 Fe =0.0119 , 



MnO = 7.00 ]Sru = 0.1071 [ 0.6279 



CaO =28.. 50 Ca=0.5089i 

 Io;mlion= 0.82 



100.52 

 Ratio:— 



Ca : Al : Si = : 2.733 : 1.00 : 2.834. 



If the iron were all Hnrous the ratio would become very nearly 

 3 : 1 : 3, as in the preceding variety, and it seems highly' probable 

 that such is the case, considering the diflicult}' in the waj' of a 

 correct determination of ferrous iron in this instance, and the 




1818.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 83 



small quantities involved. Neither of these varieties has been 

 identified in the United States byanalj'sis. 



Andradite and Pyrope are the usual varieties known in the 

 American gneiss formation. 



2. Zoisite. — Massive, cryptocrystalline, and in aggregation of 

 small prismatic crystals. In the latter condition the specimen is 

 friable between the fingers, as the individual crystals are but 

 loosely cemented together. The shape of the crystals resembles 

 very much that of Pyroxene. The striations on the prismatic 

 faces are not noticeable; but an oblique cleavage seems to be 

 present. I could not ol)tain satisfactory measurement. The 

 prismatic angle was found approximately = 101°. Tiie prism 

 was terminated in one crystal b^^ two brachj'domes too small for 

 measurement. 



Color rose-red to pale pink. • Strong vitreous lustre. H = 6 

 Spec. gr. = 3.642 



Chemical Characlers. — Swells up in the O.Fl, and fuses at 4 

 to 4.5 to a wdiite enamel. "With soda and borax in O.Fl manga- 

 nese reaction. Not acted upon by h3'drochloric acid either before 

 or after ignition. When heated in the closed tube the rose-color 

 disappears, and the mineral seems gray, yielding a small quantity 

 of water. Upon cooling, the rose-color reappears with its former 

 in ten sit}'. 



The mean of two closel\--agreeing anal^'ses gave me: — 



Ca Al Si, 0,. 

 And taking the water into consideration we obtain: — 

 (Ca Al Si, 0,)3 + H,0. 




84 PROCEEDINGS OF TIIK ACADEMY OF [1878. 



Is the v\':il('r ossciitiiil in llic coiiiiiositic)!! of Zoisiti- ? I!:iiii- 

 mclslicrg does not consider it so ; and ^ct all an!il3'ses of lliis 

 mineral sliow its presence. To ino it seems to be essential, as I 

 connect it with the icniarkalil v flistinet intnmescence of Zoisite. 

 Intnineseenee snrely is caused liy the escape of ijas or vapor wliile 

 the substance is in a semi-fluid state; it is but another furni of 

 exfoliation. 



Minerals, with eminent basal cleavage and water of hj'dration 

 or of crystallization, exlbliate, as the vern)iculites, and to a lesser 

 degree Ileulandite; minerals possessing less cleavage, or none at 

 all, exhibit intumescence. This phenomenon, as yet 'uiexplained, 

 is quite worth}'^ of a thorough investigation. 



It is possible, that in this, as also in other instances, a hydrated 

 product of alteration is interlaminated with the really anhydrous 

 mineral, thus producing apparent intumescence of the whole. 

 This is merely a suggestion. 



3, Heulandite. — This Zeolite occurs in cavities or upon either 

 the Garnet or the Zoisite, in the usual form and combinations. 

 A sufficient quantit}' for anal3'sis could not be collected, but the 

 pyrognostic characters were found to be those of heulandite. It 

 has an olive-green color, probably from an admixture of the fol- 

 lowing mineral. It is evidently a product of alteration. 



4. Leidyitc. — On the quartz, but particularly^ on the Garnet and 

 Zoisite, I found a mineral substance having the following charac- 

 ters: Not cr^'stallized, but probably cr3-stalline, massive in small 

 lumps, or as a thin botrj'oidal incrustation. In the cavities it 

 forms delicate stalactites, and leaf-shaped fdms pending from the 

 sides. It is \evy soft (H = l) Touch unctuous, lustre waxy. 

 Color fine grass-green, olive-green, and greenish-gray, sometimes 

 a bluish-green. Streak white. When crushed in the mortar, takes 

 a silk}' lustre, as it parts into fine white scales. 



Chemical Characters. — In O.Fl swells up and boils, fusing at 4 

 to a light yellowish-green glass. Reacts for iron, and slightly' for 

 manganese with soda and borax. Heated in closed tube yields 

 water and turns yellowish-brown. Dissolves readily in strong 

 cold hydrochloric acid. The solution precipitates auric chloride 

 (ferrous iron). Not soluble after ignition. I was able to collect 

 a little over two decigrams of critically' pure material from the 

 largest stalactite. The analysis gave — 




1878.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 85 



Quotient. 

 Si = 23.94 0.855 



Al = 9.51 0.173 0.173 



Fe = 6.G1 0.118 



Ca = 2.19 0.054 y 0.248 



Mg= 1.84 0.076 



100.03 



This gives the ratio for 



K" : E" : Si = 1.43 : 1.00 : 4.942. 

 = 1.5 : 2 : 5. 



This corresponds to the ox^-gen ratio 



4^ : 10. 



But it is much more probable that one atom of hydrogen enters 

 into the molecular equivalent to ^ atom R", producing thus a satu- 

 rated bisilieate. 



The mineral has then the general formula 



K", Al Sis 0(5 + 5H,0. 



W, = ^Fe + ^Ca + ^^Mg + ^H. 



I place this mineral in the system with the bisilieate Zeolites 

 for these reasons: — 



1. Similar behavior before the blowpipe. 



2. Association and like origin. 



3. Similarity of chemical composition, particularly with Heu- 

 landite. Both minerals are formed by metamorphosis of Grossu- 

 larite and Zoisite. 



Named after the distinguished comparative anatomist, Dr. 

 Josepli Leidy, of Philadelphia. 




86 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1878. 



ADDITIONS TO MR. COOKE'S PAPER ON 'THE VALSEI OF THE UNITED 



STATES." 



in- WM. C. STKVEN«ON, JR. 



Ill Mr. M. ('. Cooke's paper' tliei'e are forly .specimens grouped 

 under " sporidia uncertain." Tlie following are ineasuremenLs of 

 Sclnveinilzian specimens, occurring under tliese names, in tlie 

 herbarium of the Academy of Natural Sciences. 



As only the Schweinitzian specimens were examined, other 

 references are omitted in this list. 



Tlie marginal numbers correspond to those in the original 

 pa})er. 



95. Valsa Bignonise, Schw. Am. Bor. 1310. 



Sporidia olive-brown, uniseptate, .0159 X .0078 mm. 



96. Valsa scoparia, Schw. Am. Bor. 1.318. 

 Barren. 



97. Valsa pugillus, Schw. Am. Bor. 1.322. 

 Evidently a Sphaeronema. 



98. Valsa scutellata, Schw. Am. Bor. 1344. 

 Barren. 



99. Valsa frustrum-coni, .Schw. Am. Bor. 1329. 

 Barren. 



100. Valsa ciliata, Schw. Am. Bor. 1-349. 



Si)oridia naviculoid, biseptate, .0127 X .005 mm. 



102. Valsa umbilicata, Schw. Am. Bor. 1385. 

 Sporidia, oval, hyaline, .0062 X .005 mm. 



103. Valsa divergens, Schw. Am. Bor. 1303. 



Sporidia subelliptical, granular, .0127 X .007 mm. 



104. Valsa juglandicola, Sch. Am. Bor. 1328. 

 Sporidia allantoid, hyaline, .0062 X .002 mm. 



105. Valsa rubincola, Schw. Am. Bor. 1329. 

 Sporidia allantoid, hyaline, .009 X .002 mm. 



' Published in Proceedings of the Academy of Natural Sciences for 1877, 

 pages 110-127. 




18T8.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 87 



106 Valsa allostoma, Schw. Am. Bor. 1332. 



Sporidia allantoic!, hyaline, .009 X .0031 mm. 



107. Valsa oligostoma, Schw. Am. Bor. 1333. 

 Barren. 



108. Valsa amorpbostoma, Schw. Am. Bor. 1334. 

 Barren. 



109. Valsa radicum, Schw. Am. Bor. 1335. 

 Barren. 



110. Valsa conspurcata, Schw. Am. Bor. 1336. 



Sporidia allantoid, hyaline, .0062 X .002 — .0012 mm. 

 ni. Valsa modesta, Schw. Am. Bor. 1337. 



Sporidia allantoid, hyaline, .0078 X .0032 mm. 



112. Valsa comptoniaB, Sch. Am. Bor. 1353. 

 Immature; asci long, linear. 



113. Valsa variolaria, Schw. Am. Bor. 1371. 



Sporidia allantoid, hyaline, .0078 X .0032 mm. 



114. Valsa conseptata, Schw. Am. Bor. 1373. 



Sporidia allantoid, hyaline, .0083 X .0032 mm, 



115. Valsa papyriferae, Schw. Am. Bor. 1375. 



Large numljer of asci filled with granular matter, apparently 

 immature. Xo definite sporidia present. 



116. Valsa ceanothi, Schw. Am Bor. 1376. 



Sporidia allantoid, nucleated, .0217 X .0062 mm. 



117. Valsa indistincta, Schw. Am. Bor. 1377. 



Sporidia renilbrm, hj-aline, .0062 X .0045 mm. 



118. Valsa quadrifida, Schw. Am. Bor. 1378. 



Sporidia allantoid, hyaline, .0093 X .0032 mm. 



119. Valsa scabriseta, Schw. Am. Bor. 1394. 



Sporidia subelliptieal, hyaline, .0062 X .0203 mm. 



120. Valsa expers, Schw. Am. Bor. 1396. 



Sporidia allantoid, nucleated, .0189 X .0062 mm. 



121. Valsa rimicola, Schw. Am. Bor. 1397. 



Not in sufficient quantity for complete examination. 



122 Valsa rhizina, Schw. Am. Bor. 1398. ' 



Sporidia allantoid, hyaline, .0093 X .0032 mm. 




88 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1878. 



123. Valsa lialseyana, Schw. Am. Bor. l.'il'J. 

 Banvn. 



124. Valsa lixivia, Scluv. Am. IJor. i:i27. 



Sporidia ])ro\vii, iiiust'[)tate, strongly constricted at septtusi, 

 .025:3 X .0127 mm. 



125. Valsa tortuosa, Schw. Am. Bor. l.'JaO. 

 Unsatisfactory. 



126. Valsa deformis, Seliw. Am. Bor. l.'J55. 



Sporiilia allantoid, hyaline, .0()(i2 — .0083 X .0015 mm. 



127. Valsa clopima, Schw. Am. Bor. 1300. 

 Examination unsatisfactoiy. 



128. Valsa leucopia, Schw. Am. Bor. 1305. 



Sporidia subelliptical, hyaline, .0223 X .00G2 mm. 



129. Valsa sphinctrina, Schw. Am. Bor. 1370. 

 Barren. 



130. Valsa aperta, Schw. Am. Bor. 1381. 



Sporidia allantoid, hyaline, .0189 X .0062 mm. 



131. Valsa vasculosa, Schw. Am. Bor. 1382. 



Sporidia cuneate, nucleated, .0189 X .0127 mm. 



132. Valsa pusilla, Schw. Am. Bor. 1.391. 



Barren. 



133. Valsa abnormis, Schw. Am. Bor. 1392. 

 Barren. 




1878.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 89 



NOTES ON THE NORTH AMERICAN CARIDEA IN THE MUSEUM OF THE 

 PEABODY ACADEMY OF SCIENCE AT SALEM, MASS. 



BY J. S. KINGSLEY. 



The following paper is merely preliminary to a proposed mono- 

 graph of the North American shrimps. I would here return 

 thanks to Prof. S. I. Smith, of Yale College, for many favors 

 received. 



CRANGONIDiE. 



CRANGON Fabricius. 

 Crangon vulgaris Fabr. 



I find this species in collections made by Dr. Packard at Fort 

 Macon, X. C. I should be inclined to call the Steiracrangon All- 

 manni of Kinahan (Proc. Ro}-. Irish Acad. 18()2, vii. p. '71,pl. iv.) 

 as this species, there being no constant character to separate 

 them ; but Rev. A. M. Norman, in the Report of the British As- 

 sociation for the Advancement of Science for 1868, p. 265, pro- 

 nounces them unquestionablj' distinct. The onl}- characters given 

 by Kinahan for the separation are the sulcation of the sixth and 

 seventh abdominal segments, a feature which I have found in 

 undoubted specimens of C. vulgaris from our own coast. Nor 

 can the bathymetrical distribution, mentioned b3' Norman, affect 

 the case, as G. vulgaris is common in seventy fathoms. I am also 

 inclined to consider C. nigricauda Stra., C. nigromaculata Lock- 

 ington, and C. alaskensis Lockington, as G. vulgaris, but will not 

 decide until the examination of larger series of specimens from the 

 west coast. Dekaj' (N. Y. Fauna, Crustacea, p. 25) has this as- 

 tounding statement concerning this species (under the name G. 7- 

 carinata Say), " eyes sessile, and resting on the concave surface 

 of the peduncle of the inner antenna?." 



HIPPOLYSMATA Stimpson. 

 T Hippolysmata cubensis. 



Hippolyte cubensis, Von Martens, Wiegmami's Archiv fiir Naturge- 

 schicbte, 1873, p. 136, pi. v. f. 14. 



I refer this with a doubt to this genus, though Dr. Y. Martens 

 gives nothing in regard to the mandibles and external raaxillipeds. 

 The genus Hijypolyfe is northern in its range. 

 7 




90 PROCEEDINGK OF THE ACADEMY OF [187«. 



Hippolysmata intermedia, n. s. 



CanipMX with tiiileniml and luancliioHtegal spines, rostrutn hori- 

 zontal, L'Xtendinj^ to l)asc of the third joint of antennuhir pedunele, 

 sliorter than in 7/. wurdemanni Stm., aixl longer than in //. 

 cuben^ia; the earina extending back to the posterior portion of 

 the oarapax ; six or seven toothed above, three or four teeth being 

 on the carapax, and three on the rostrnra ; below with three teeth, 

 the first being directly under the last on the upper margin. Anten- 

 nuhir si)ine extending slightly beyond the basal joint of peduncle ; 

 third joint two-thirds as long as preceding, flagella nearly as 

 long as tlie body, the outer thickened for a fourth of its length, 

 and exhibiting traces of a division, A spine on the outside of the 

 basal joint of antennfe, antennal scale narrow, regularly tapering, 

 extending over half its length beyond the rostrum; flagellum 

 longer than the body. 



External maxillipeds elongate, pediform, extending beyond the 

 antennal scale, the carpal joint reaching the tip of antennal 

 peduncle. Feet of first pair reaching the extremity of the antennal 

 scale, fingers half as long as palm; hand, carpus, and meros sub- 

 equal. Feet of second pair elongate, filiform, carpus raultiarti- 

 culate. Telsou narrow, tapering, the apex acute. 



Length. Carapax. Rostrum. 2d pair. 



25 mm. 6 mm. 3 mm. 19 mm. 



Fort Jefferson and Tortugas, Fla., AV. II. Jacques. 



This species differs from H. cubensis in the longer rostrum and 

 carapax, the antennular flagella, and in the fifth pair of feet not 

 being longer than the others ; from //. ivurdemcmni in the shorter 

 rostrum and the arrangement of the rostral teeth, and the pres- 

 ence of a branchiostegal spine. 



TOZEUMA Stimpson. 

 Tozeuma carolinensis, n. s. 



Elongate, compressed, carapax with sub-ocular and branchios- 

 tegal spines; rostrum narrow, slender, curving upwards very 

 slightl}', a half longer than the carapax, not extended as a carina 

 on the carapax, a small spine on each side at the base; upper 

 margin smooth, rounded, lower with many small teeth. Basal 

 spine of antennulte slender, extending be^'ond the first joint of 

 the peduncle; first joint as long as the two following which are 

 t-qual ; flagella short, the upper and outer the larger, neither reach- 




18T8.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 91 



ing the tip of antennal scale. Basal joint of antennjB with a small 

 spine beneath ; antennal scale narrow, lanceolate, nearl}' as long 

 as carapax, peduncle short, flagellum a third as long as the body 

 without rostrum. External maxillipeds short, last joint twice as 

 long as the preceding one. Feet all short, first pair very short, 

 stout, carpus with a spine above, hand inflated, fingers curved, 

 closing completely*. Feet of second pair slender, reaching to the 

 tip of antennal peduncle, meros joint as long as the first two joints 

 of the carpus, first joint of carpus as long as the other two, third 

 a half longer than the second ; hand hirsute, as long as the last 

 articulation of the carpus. Remaining feet simple; dactjli curved, 

 propodi spinulose beneath. Dorsum of abdomen smooth; sixth 

 segment as long as the two i^receding; telson elongate, slender, 

 acute. 



Length. Carapax. Rostrum. 



51 mm. 10 mm. 15.5 mm. 



Fort Macon, N. C, A. S. Packard, Jr. 



This species differs from T. lanceolatum Stm., from China, the 

 only other species that I know of, in the shortness of the rostrum 

 and antenme, the want of spines on the dorsal surface of the abdo- 

 men, etc. 



ATYIDiE. 



ATYA Leach. 

 Atya punctata, n. s. 



Compressed, carapax and abdomen everywhere thickly punctate, 

 rostrum short, depressed, cariuate above and below, tip acute, 

 lateral angles obtuse, the sulci separating the median from the 

 lateral carinse deep. Antennular spine falling short of base of 

 second joint, acute ; peduncle granulate above, third joint two- 

 thirds as long as second ; outer flagellum shorter than the inner, 

 inner three-fourths as long as carapax. A spine on the basal joint 

 of antennae beneath; antennal scale longer than antennular pedun- 

 cle, extremity ovate, external margin nearly straight, with a short 

 acute spine. External maxillipeds slender, extending bej'ond the 

 antennal peduncle. Feet of the first two pairs subequal ; meral 

 joints compressed, longitudinall}- sulfated. Feet of the third pair 

 cylindrical, stout, covered with tubercles interspersed with hairs. 

 These tubercles on the upper surfaces show a tendency to arrange 

 themselves in longitudinal rows, and on the carpus become some- 




92 PROCEEDINOS OF THE ACADEMY OP [18Y8- 



what spliiiforni. Iscliimn Uhlh' times as long as nicros, mcros and 

 carpus of the same lengtli, tlie loriner being somewhat tlie stouter ; 

 dactylMS short, stout, smootli aljove, a single row of spines beneath, 

 apex acute. Fourth pair of feet resembling tlie thir<l in ornamen- 

 tation and proportions of joints, but shorter and more slender. 

 Fifth pair still shorter and more slender, carpus twice as long as 

 meros and sligiitl^' longer than tl)e ischium ; otiurwise not differ- 

 ing from tlie two preceding. Telson, with the sides straiglit, ex- 

 tremity truncate ; a slight sulcus above, which, in the posterior 

 portion, is divided by a median carina ; on each side a row of 

 aculei. 



Length. Carapax. Third pair feet. 



51) ram. 18.5 ram. 28 ram. 



TTayti, Dr. J). F. Weinland. 



This species differs from A. scabra in the longi-r feet of the first 

 pair, the three last pair more slender, the more tuberculate charac- 

 ter of the ornamentation, and in the proportionate length of the 

 joints. The second abdominal segment is also more dilated. 

 From the short descrii)tion of Alya occidentalis Newport, in the 

 thorax and al)domen being punctate; from the A. tenella Smith, 

 in tlie larger feet of tlic third pair; and from A. i-ivalis in the 

 more obtuse lateral teeth of the rostrum. 



Atya occidentalis Newport, Annals and Magazine of Nntural History, 1847, vol. 

 six. p. 159. Von Martens, Archiv fur Naturgeschiclite, 1871, p. 185. 



Specimens in the museum of the Peabod}- Academy' which I 

 refer to this species differ from the foregoing species in having the 

 distal portion of the basal joint of antennular peduncle armed 

 with short bristles or spines; inner flagellum three-fourths the 

 length of carapax. Legs of third pair much larger than tlie 

 others; raeral, carpal, and propodal joints tuberculate, without 

 hairs ; meros longer than three succeeding joints, rounded, trian- 

 gular in section; carpus and propodus subequal; dactylus short, 

 claw-like, basal portion greatly thickened and armed with small 

 spines beneath. Fourth pair with meros as long as carpus and 

 2:>ropodus; carpus shorter than propodus, dactylus as in third pair. 

 Meros and carpus each with a single spine beneath. Meros and 

 propodus of fifth pair subequal; propodus a half longer than car- 

 pus, Telson as in A. 7'iualis Smith. 



Length. Third pair of feet. 



57 mm. 31 ram. 




1818.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 93 



Whether this be the A. occidentalis of Newport, cannot be de- 

 termined from his short description, but it presents no conflicting 

 characters. 



ATYOIDA Randall. 

 Atyoida glabra, n. s. 



Compressed, rostrum slender, sliort, extending slightly beyond 

 the base of the second joint of antennular peduncle, liorizontal, 

 rounded above, not angulated on the sides, no lateral carinte ; be- 

 low with two to four teeth near the tip. Peduncle of antennie 

 unarmed, last two joints nearly equal ; outer flagellum about half 

 as long as the carapax ; inner more slender, three times as long as 

 the outer. Antennal scale longer than the antennular peduncle, 

 extremity ovate, outer margin straight and armed with a small, 

 stout, acute spine ; flagellum nearly as long as the bodj-. External 

 maxillipeds slender, pediform, extending a little bej'ond tiie pedun- 

 cles of the antennulffi. First two pairs of feet smooth and naked; 

 the first as long as the maxillipeds, the second extending to the 

 tip of the antennal scale. Meral and carpal joints of remaining 

 pairs armed below with spines ; dactyli short, stout, also with 

 spines. Two posterior pairs subequal. Abdomen smooth, com- 

 pressed, the sides being higher than is usual in this and allied 

 genera. Telson narrow, sides straight, extremity arcuate-truncate, 

 with numerous small spines ; dorsal surface without a furrow, but 

 furnished with rows of small aculei. 



Height 

 of abdomen. 

 5.3 mm. 



Polvon and Corcuera, west coast of Nicaragua, J. A. McNiel. 



PALiEMONID^. 



ALPHETIS Fabr. 

 Alpheus normanni. 



Aljiheus iiffinis Kingsley, Bulletin U. S. Geological and Geographical 

 Survey of the Territories, 1878, vol. iv. p. 195. 



The specific name affinis being alread\' preoccupied in this genus 

 (Guise, Annals of Natural History, 1854, 2d series, vol. xiv. p. 

 275), it is necessary to apply a new one to the Panama form, 

 and I therefore dedicate it to the Rev. A. M. Norman, of Engl;ind, 

 who called my attention to the oversight. 




04 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1878. 



PANDALTJ8 Leach. 

 PandaluB franciscorum, n. s. 



L'arai)ax with u minute pubescence; antennal and brancliios- 

 tegal spines acute; rostrum a fiftii longer than the carapax, ex- 

 tending a fourtli its length beyond the antennal scales, consider- 

 ably recurved, ten or eleven teetli aliove, of which five are on the 

 carapax, and the remainder on the basal jiortion of the rostrum ; 

 distal half of the rostrum above smooth, the apex being minutely 

 bifid or trifid ; below with seven to nine teeth, the posterior 1)eing 

 the largest. Third joint of antennular peduncle a third longer 

 than the preceding ; flagella about as long as the carapax. IJasal 

 joint of anteniiiu with a s})ine on the outside, and anotlier below; 

 antennal scales long and proportionately narrower than in P. 

 borealis Kroyer ; flagellum longer than the body. External 

 maxillipeds falling short of the extremity of the antennal scale. 

 Second pair of feet unequal, the shorter extending further forward 

 than the external maxillipeds. Posterior pairs stout, armed with 

 spines below. Fifth and sixth abdominal segments with a spine 

 at the infero-posterior angle. Telson narrow, a shallow furrow on 

 its upper surface, apex obtusely triangular. 



Length. Carapax. 



110 mm. 52 mm. 



San Francisco, Cal., W. G. W. Harford. 



THOR,' nov. gen. 



Carapax with antennal spine, rostrum short, toothed above ; 

 antennulaj biflagellate, outer branch very stout. Mandibles with- 

 out palpi, bifurcate, apical process narrow ; proximal process stout 

 with one acute and one obtuse tooth, and a pubescence of minute 

 curved hooks, reminding one of the basal joints of the limbs of 

 Limulus. f]xternal maxillipeds pedlform, exopodite present. 

 Feet of the first pair short, stout ; of the second elongate, slender ; 

 carpus five annulate. Telson elongate, triangular. 



This genus differs from all the Alpheinse with which I am 

 acquainted in the absence of mandibular palpus, and from the 

 Palscmoninse in the relative size of the first two pairs of thoracic 

 feet, and in having the carpus of the second pair annulate. 



' Thor, a Scandinavian deity. 




1818.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 95 



Tlior floridanus, n. s. 



Carapax with a small antennal spine; rostrum shorter than the 

 eyes, five toothed above, the first being over tlie orbits, beneath 

 smooth and rounded. Antennulae with basal joint large, basal 

 spine long, acute, reaching nearly to third joint; second and third 

 joints ver3' short, the second with a slender, acute spine on the 

 outside. Inner flagellum slender, slightl}' longer than the basal 

 joints; outer about as long as the basal joints, stout, ciliated on 

 the apex and inner margin. Antennse with a spine on the basal 

 joint, antennal scale reaching as far as the outer branch of anten- 

 nular flagellum, its inner margin slightly concave, flagellum half 

 as long as the body. Mandibles robust, apical process with five 

 terminal teeth. External maxillipeds slender, pediform, reaehino' 

 the tip of antennal scale, the penult joint the shortest, antepenult 

 three, and last joint four times as long as the penultimate, the last 

 joint terminated with slender spines. First pair of feet short, 

 stout, raeral and carpal joints subequal, the latter with minute 

 spines on the inner margin ; hands subc3-lindrical, the dactyli 

 occup3dng two-fifths their length. Second pair of feet elongate, 

 filiform,.carpus five annulate, third and fourth joints the shortest, 

 equal, fifth, second, and first increasing in length in the order 

 given, the first being as long as the third and fourth togetlier; 

 hand as long as the third and fourth articulations of the carpus, 

 with the fingers occupying two-fifths of its length ; meral joint as 

 long as the first four articulations of tlie carpus. Dactyli and 

 distal portions of the propodi of posterior pairs of feet spinulose 

 beneath. Telson elongate, triangular, apex truncate, spined. 



Length. Carapax. 



13 mm. 3.9 mm. 



Ke}' West, Florida, A. S. Packard, Jr. 



PONTONIA Latreille. 



Fontonia domestica Gibbes, Proceedings of the American Association for the Ad- 

 vancement of Science, 1851, iii. p. 196. 



In addition to the brief description of Gibbes, I would add the 

 following characters, derived from specimens in the collection of 

 the Boston Society of Natural History from the Bahamas (Dr. H. 

 Brj'ant). 



Antennal spine short, acute ; rostrum extending nearly' to* last 

 joint of peduncle of antennulae. Third joint of antennular 




90 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1.^78. 



peduncle but slijijlitly louLcer tli:in tlie sccoml; Ihi^ella very sliorl, 

 the outer l)r:iiicli the longer and stouter, basal spine short, obtuse. 

 Antennal scale broad, extending as far as antennular |)ednnele ; 

 exlii-mity areuate-t runcate. Feet of the first pair slender, carpus 

 a half longer than tiie hand. Palm of the second pair a half longer 

 than the fingers; tlnunb with two teeth, finger with only one, 

 points of fingers crossing. Telson twice as long as broad, mar- 

 gins slightly arcuate as in P. mar(jarita^ Smith. 



Length. Carapax. 



26 mm. 10.4 mm. 



ANCHISTIA Dana. 

 Anchistia americana, n. s. 



nostrum rather broad, nearl}' reaciiing the extremity of the 

 antennal scale, upper margin straight, seven to nine toothed, above 

 the first tooth more remote from the second than the second from 

 the third, two to tliree teeth below. Branchiostegal and hepatic 

 spines present. ]3asal joint of antennuhc broad, as long as the 

 two following which are equal. Upper and outer flagellum shorter 

 and stouter than its fellow, and bifid for about a fourth of its 

 length ; inner and longer flagellum about as long as the pe<luncle. 

 Basal joint of antennjB with a spine on the outside, antennal scale 

 lanceolate, extremity rounded ; flagellum as long as the bod}'. 

 Feet of the first pair slender, elongate, the middle of carpus 

 reaching the tip of the antennal scale ; meros and carpus equal, 

 hands about two-thirds the length of the carpus, fingers shorter 

 than palmar portion. Second pair of feet \Qvy elongate, resem- 

 bling those of the proposed genus Macrobrachium Spence Bate, 

 being longer than the whole body ; meros very slightly longer than 

 the carpus, carpus al)Out half as long as the hand, the distal por- 

 tion enlarged, hand cylindrical, fingers slender, somewhat curved 

 downwards, not completely closing, with a few small teeth. Re- 

 maining feet slender, the posterior pair reaching the extremity of 

 the rostrum. Telson narrow, triangular, truncate, terminated with 

 bristles. 



Length. Carapax. Second pair of feet. 



20 mm. 4.5 mm. 25 mm. 



Key West, Florida, A. S. Packard, Jr. 



This species quite closely resembles the description of Palsemon 

 Jiuvialis Streets, from the fresh waters of Mexico. 




1878.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 97 



PAL^MONETES Heller. 



Falsemonetes paludosa. 



Ilippolyte paludosa Gibbes. Pro. Amer. Assoc, 1851, p. 107. 

 Pukemonetes exiUp)es Stimpson, Annals N. Y. Lyceum Nat. Hist. 

 1871, X. p. 130. Smith, Rep. U. S. Fish Commission, 1872-3, p. 

 641, pi. i., f. 1. Forbes, Bulletin Illinois Museum Nat. Hist. 1876, 

 No. 1, p. 5 and 20. 

 I believe the species described b}' Stimpson to be the one men- 

 tioned previously b}^ Gibbes, especially since the description of 

 this author agrees, as far as it goes, with specimens of P. exilijDes 

 from various localities, that it comes from the fresh waters of 

 South Carolina, from whence Stimpsou's types were i)rociired. 

 Professor Gibbes sa^'s, " The specimens were not quite i)erfect, 

 liaving lost some of their feet and antennse," which Avould explain 



PENEID2B. 



SICYONIA H. Milne Edwards. 

 Sicyonia dorsalis, n. s. 



Bod_v small, slightly compressed, carapax minutely punctate. 

 Dorsal crest of the carapax with a tooth at al)out the middle, and 

 a second near the anterior border. Hepatic spine slender, anten- 

 na! shorter and stouter. Rostrum hoiizontal, short, extending 

 slightly beyond the eyes and nearly to the second joint of anten- 

 nular peduncle, three-toothed above, extremity acute, below entire. 

 First joint of peduncle of antennula terminating exteriorly in a 

 spine, second three times as long as the third ; flagella shorty 

 hardly equalling the last two joints of peduncle. Antennal scale 

 broad, regularly tapering, as long as autennular peduncle. Ex- 

 ternal maxilliped falling short of the extremity of antennal 

 peduncle. Feet slender, round ; those of the third pair reaching 

 slightly further than the external maxillipeds. Abdomen sharplj^ 

 carinate above, sides punctate, sculptured, protuberant parts 

 roimded. Third to sixth segments with a spine at the postero- 

 inferior angle. Telson narrow, acute, with a shallow groove on 

 the dorsal surface. 



Length. Carapax. Rostrum. 



38 mm. 9.5 mm. 3 mm. ^ 



Fort Jefferson, Fla., Lieut. W. H. Jacques, U. S. N. 




98 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [18T8. 



Is quite difTercnt from the two species S. hreinroatria Stii). {S. 

 crislata Saussuie), ami S. laevigata, Stin., before known from this 

 coast. 



PENEUS Lutieille. 

 Peneus brevirostris, n. s. 



('oin|iic'sso(l, sutures of carapax well marlted, carina with a 

 sulcus on each side extending nearly to the posterior margin of 

 the carapax; rostrum short, liorizontal, apex a little depressed, 

 scarcely exceeding tiic e3'es, ten-toothed al)Ove, of which the first 

 four are on the carapax itself, distal fourth smooth; below wiili 

 two teeth near the tip. Flagella of antennulie very short. An- 

 tennal scale about as long as antennular peduncle, laminate ])or- 

 tion extending beyond the spine at the antero-lateral angle; flagel- 

 lum longer than the body, spines at the base of the first two pairs 

 of feet slender. Third pair of feet the longest, extending to the 

 apex of the antennal scale. Abdomen com|)ressed, fourth to sixth 

 segments with a doreal median crest. Telson short, regularly 

 tapering to an acute tip, a deep and narrow longitudinal furrow 

 above. Inner caudal lamella longitudinallj- l)isulcate. 



Length. Carapax. Rostrum. 



42 mm. 10 mm. 5 mm. 



Estero at Realijo, W. Coast of Nicaragua (salt water), J. A. 

 McXiel. 




1818.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 99 



March 5, 1878. 



The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 



Fort3'-onc persons present. 



The following papers were presented for publication : — 

 "Recovery of all the Faculties in a Pigeon from which the Cere- 

 bral Hemispheres had been removed." By J. H. McQuillen, M.D. 

 "The Electric Constitution of the Solar System." By Jacob 

 Ennis. 



A Hippopotamus Tusk. — Prof. Leidy stated that in the Mozam- 

 bique Collection of the International Exhibition, he had noticed 

 a hippopotamus tooth remarkable for its size. It was an inferior 

 canine, with a spiral turn, apparently from impeded growth, per- 

 haps due to the loss of the opposing tooth. It measured 42 inches 

 long in the spiral. The insertion was 16 inches, and the diameter 

 4 inches. 



On Amceha. — Prof. Leidy remarked that the first notice of an 

 Amoeba was of a large species, described by Rosel, under the name 

 of P7-otei(S, in the Insecten-Belustigung, Nurnberg, 1T55 It was 

 called by Linnseus Volvox chaos and Chaos protheus, and by Pal- 

 las Volvox proteus, a.n(\ subsequently byMiiller Proteus diffluens. 

 As the latter generic name was preoccupied, Bor}^ called the animal 

 Amiba. Ehrenberg, in the Infusionsthierclien, describes a small 

 species as Amop.ha diffluens, and refers all those previously de- 

 scribed to the same. His supposed new and large species, which 

 he describes as Amceha princeps, is really the same as Rosel's 

 Proteus. The true name of this should be either Amoeba chaos or 

 Amoeba proteus, the former according to strict rules of zoological 

 nomenclature, though the latter would appear more appropriate as 

 serving to perpetuate the name given by the discoverer of the first 

 known rhizopod. 



Black Barite from Derbyshire. — Prof George A. Koenig com- 

 municated the results of an examination made on a specimen 

 labelled "Manganese from Derb3'shire," in the collection of the 

 Academy. The mineral is jet-black in color, exhibiting metallic 

 lustre. Lamellar structure without distinct forms. Strong cleav- 

 age. Cleavage pieces gaA'e the angles of barite. Specific gravity 

 = 4.345. 



Boiled with hydrochloric acid the black color disappears, leav- 

 ing a white substance. The analysis gave f- 




100 PROCEEDINOS OF THE ACADEMY OP []S78. 



BaSO, = 1>0.40 

 Mn.Oj = y.lO 

 n.,0 = 0.25 



00.75 

 It presents fin inU-'iestini; illustration of liow a comiiaratively 

 small amount of one mineial may mask the most striking pii^sical 

 proi)erties of a mineral species. 



:March 12. 

 The President, Dr. IIuschenberger, in the chair. 

 Nineteen persons present. 



March 10. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Thirtj'-two persons present. 



March 26. 



The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 



Thirt3-one persons present. 



The following pajiers were presented for publication: — 

 "Staffellite from Pike's Peak, Col." By E. Goldsmith. 

 " Stibianite, a New Mineral." By E. Goldsmith. 

 The death of Henry Adams, Correspondent, was announced. 



A Louse of the Pelican. — Prof. Letdy exhibited a portion of 

 the pouch of a pelican, witli several groups of large lice adhering 

 to the lining membrane. Tlie specimen, suspended in alcohol, had 

 been presented to him some years since by his late friend Prof. 

 Jeffries Wyman, who obtained it, while in Florida, from the white 

 pelican, Pelecanus trachyrhynchus. 



Later, Dr. Elliott Coues, U.S.A., had submitted to his inspec- 

 tion specimens of the same louse, which he had obtained from the 

 interior of the pouch of a white pelican, from the Red River of 

 the North. 



The louse pertains to the 3[aUophaga or Fleece-eaters, and 

 appears to be an undescribed species. The name of !Menopon 

 PERALE was given to it. It is 2^ lines in length, and of a chest- 

 nut-brown color. The head is broader than long, semilunar, -with 




1878.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 



101 



a black spot on each side in advance of the pair of ej'es. Pro- 

 thorax narrower tlian the head, with a lateral conical point. 

 Abdomen nearly twice the length of the head and thorax together; 

 terminal segment rounded, and with a tnft of hairs on each side. 

 Mandibles strong and black. 



Expansive Force of Root Growth. — Mr. Thomas Meehan ex- 

 hibited a one-year-old peach tree with the stone yet attached. 

 The stone had lost the usual power of dividing into two portions, 

 and remained tightly closed; but the plumule 

 had forced its way ihrough at the base, while 

 the radicle appeared to have made its way en- 

 tirely through the side of the hard shell. Mr. 

 Meehan referred to other cases of a similar 

 character, already recorded in the Proceedings 

 of the Academ}', notabl}' those of the stolons 

 of coucli grass, which pushed through several 

 potatoes, making a sort of necklace; and the 

 case of the surve}' lawsuit where, by the thick- 

 ening of the roots of a tree growing on a rock, 

 the surveyor's mark on a tree trunk had, after 

 many years, been elevated several inches, the 

 effect of this growth being to lift a tree of 

 many tons weight. This peach-stone case 

 seemed remarkable not so much for its ex- 

 pansive as its penetrating force, which, as 

 suggested by Dr. Rothrock, may have been aided b}' an absorbent 

 and solvent power. 



The following papers were ordered to be published : — 




102 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1878. 



THE ELECTEIC CONSTITUTION OF THE SOLAE SYSTEM. 

 IJY JACOB ENNIS. 



The zodi.acal light, tlie aurora borcalis, the corona of tlie sun, 

 and the tails of comets, are all diflerent forms of tlic same thing. 

 They are electrical brusiies, precisely the same as tiie electric 

 brushes which in the night are seen to fl}' off from a highly charged 

 electric machine. On the electric machine the electric fluid is 

 developed by friction. On our great globe, on the sun, and on 

 tlie comets, the electric fluid is developed by evaporation. Put a 

 little saline water in a metallic vessel shaped like a watch crys- 

 tal, then if heated, or if a hot pebble be dropped in the water, the 

 vapor arising will be charged with the electric fluid. All tlie 

 waters of our globe are more or less saline, and the ocean is very 

 much saline, and the rising vai)ors are charged with electricity. 

 A gill of water is changed into about 30 gallons of electrified vapor. 

 All around our globe the average rainfall is about 36 inches a 

 3'ear. This shows the amount of water evaporated; and the 

 amount of vapor and of the electric fluid rising daily high up in 

 our atmosphere, is great beyond conception. A very small por- 

 tion of the electric fluid comes down as lightning. The brilliant 

 light and the loud explosions are simpl}' indications of tlie resist- 

 ance oflfered by the dense lower atmosphere to the downward pro- 

 gress of the electric fluid. But high up the air is ver}' rare, and the 

 electric fluid easily rises upwards; therefore the higher regions of 

 the atmosphere are always highly- charged with electricity. Ordi- 

 narily the ground is negative, and the air is positivel}^ electrified. 

 As a balloon mounts up, a cord let down, say a hundred yards, 

 sliows that its lower end is always negative and the upper posi- 

 tive. This is proof that the upper strata of the air are more highly 

 charged than the lower. As those upper strata float toward the 

 poles they carry thither an ever-increasing accumulation of the 

 electric fluid. What becomes of this fluid? It cannol descend to 

 the ground through the dense atmosphere ; there are no thunder 

 showers in those polar regions, therefore it goes upward through 

 the rare air to the top of the atmosphere, and from thence it is 

 driven off in the form of auroral streamers constantly far away 

 into empty space as electrical brushes. 




1878.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 103 



But what repels this vast daily accumulation of electricity away 

 from our planet off into empty space? The answer is that elec- 

 tricity alone can repel electricity; and in this case the repelling 

 electricity is seen in the corona of the sun. The corona of the 

 sun consists of brushes of electricity. They are so vast that 

 they rise up visibly to our eyes at this great distance a mil- 

 lion of miles. How much further they would be A'isible if our 

 standpoint were nearer, we cannot say. The}' are caused there, as 

 here, by the evaporation from the intense heat of the sun. They 

 are so powerful as to drive the tails of comets, also electric brushes, 

 in the direction away from the sun. The}' drive awa}' from the 

 direction of the sun our zodiacal light, and our aurora borealis, 

 and aurora australis, all three of which must be regarded as the 

 perpetual tail of our planet, in many respects similar to the tail 

 of a comet; for the tails of some comets are so short and rare as 

 to be either invisible or almost invisible at our distance. 



Our auroral streamers and our zodiacal light are perpetual; they 

 never cease, because evaporation never ceases. There is a zone 

 all around our globe toward the Arctic Circle where the aurora 

 borealis is seen every night. In Europe this zone lies in about 

 70 degrees of latitude, but in America it comes lower down, as far 

 as about the latitude of 58 degrees. As we go northward from 

 Philadelphia we see the northern aurora more and more frequently. 

 It is eas}' in summer to go to Quebec, and from theie in a steamer 

 up the Sagueuay River to Grand Bay and Chicoutimi, where very 

 seldom a night passes without being cheered more or less by the 

 electric lights along the northern sky. 



The evidence is complete that an auroral display' is a display 

 of electricity. It runs along the telegraph wires, and messages 

 have been dispatched and carried to their destination by the 

 auroral power. During the display of September 2, 1859, it was 

 estimated by telegraphic experts that " the iutensit}- of this power 

 was equal to that of 200 cups of Grove's battery on a line 230 

 miles long." I need not stop here to detail how telegraph opera- 

 tors have been stunned, how their apparatus has been melted, and 

 how their work has been suspended by an electric storm on their 

 wires coming from the aurora. 



When there are extraordinarj' auroral displays the}' appear first in 

 Europe and then in America; they travel from east to west arpund 

 the globe like the dark cone of the night ; they are on the dark 




104 runCEEDINC.S OF THE ACADEMY OF [18V8. 



side of tlie globe, nnd llie aiirornl slie;iniers, sonieliincs fiOO miles 

 high, i)()iiit !iw;iy from the sun, like tlie t:iil.s of eoiiiels, driven hy 

 the sun's cleetiie repulsion. This is ill iist rated liy the hours in 

 whieh the}' appear. In lower latitudes, say of 40 degrees, where 

 the zone around the glol)e from east to west is very loni)-, the 

 aurora appears in the earlier part of the night, and the eleetric 

 fluid is all driven off generally before midnight. J>ut far to the 

 north, where that zone is shorter, the appearanees of the auroi'as 

 are more often at midnight and later. 



The following table shows the times of the appearanee of many 

 auroras in Canada, and other stations further north, at Carlton 

 Fort, Athabasea, and Point Harrow, ranging from 48 to 71 degrees 

 of latitude. 



When ^[M. Lottin, Biavais, and their companions spent the 

 long night of 70 times 24 hours at Alten Bay, in West Finmark, 

 latitude 70, they saw 64 auroras, and perceived some half dozen 

 more b}'^ the magnetic needle when the clouds hid the sky. The 

 aurora was not continuous during the long night, but once in 24 

 hours when the night overshadowed the same meridian in tempe- 

 rate latitudes. If in these lower temperate latitudes the aurora 

 occurred in the daytime, it could not indeed be seen on account 

 of the light of the sun, but it could be perceived by the magnetic 

 needle. 



Not only the nightl}' auroral streamers, often 500 miles long, 

 pointing away from the sun like tlie tails of comets, but also the 

 eleven years periodicit}' of great auroras, corresponding with the 

 eleven years periodicity' of great solar spots, declares the connec- 

 tion between the sun and our auroras. Then indeed the auroral 

 electricity' maybe felt on the telegraph wires in the daytime; that 

 is on the sun side of the earth, because by unwonted solar ac- 

 tivity the electric fluid is hurried away from the solar to the night 

 side of the earth, and it is felt in its passage ; then, in those sea- 




1878.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 105 



sons of extra large auroras, the tall streamers are seen to arise 

 not only from the north, but all around from the east and the west, 

 and less strongly from the south. Their upper limits seem to 

 come nearly together a little sonth of the zenith in our latitude, 

 and the near meeting of their tops forms a circle called the auroral 

 corona. This circle is broken, or nearly broken, on the south 

 side, because the streamers rising up from tlie distant southern 

 latitudes are too far off to be plainly seen. While looking up to 

 the centre of the corona we are really looking out of the far end 

 of a tube — an auroral tube composed of electric streamers. These 

 streamers seem to approach one another, and make the far end of 

 the tube very small, but really they do not approach. Their ap- 

 parent convergence is like the seeming approacli of the two rails 

 on a railroad when the eye can see them far away. These tall 

 auroral streamers, which apparently converge and form the corona, 

 must be several thousand miles high. 



2s^ow we can understand why the zone of constant auroras is far 

 this side of the poles, and why tlie explorers and tlie whalers in 

 the extreme north have to look southwardly to see the auroras. 

 The polar regions on our globe are not in the direction awa}' from 

 tlie sun; tlieir zenith is at riglit angles or perpendicular to the 

 sun's radiations, and the solar electric repulsion di'ives all the 

 terrestrial electricity away down to lower latitudes. 



Now we can understand also why the earth's atmosphere ex- 

 tends so high. Mathematicians have declared that, according to 

 Mariotte's law, it can extend upward only al)out 40 miles, but the 

 passage of meteors through the air, and their bright ignition,, 

 prove that our atmosphere reaches as high as 200 miles. Wlien 

 we stand on an insulated stool charged with electricity, we know 

 how our hairs all stand on end, and reach far out from our heads. 

 Pith balls and tufts of down tied to the ends of threads on the 

 prime conductor of an electric machine, all fly off at the full lengths 

 of the threads. So it must be with the particles of air, onl}' in a 

 far greater degree, because they are so much lighter. The atmo- 

 sphere, especiail}'^ its upper surface, is like the prime conductor 

 of an electric machine. This great machine rotating in tlie sun's 

 rays, is constantly receiving an inconceivable amount of electricity 

 from evaporation, and it must necessarily lift the top of our atmo- 

 sphere far up — we cannot tell how high. ' 

 8 




106 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADKMY OF [1878. 



The Zodiacal Light. — Now first wf can uiiderstaml also tlio oause 

 of zodiacal li^^lit. At the l)elt of calms in tlic ecinatorial region, 

 where the trade winds meet from the north and from tlie south, 

 there is much evaporation, an<l as the warm, moist :iir rises, the 

 vapor is condensed, and it descends in rain. .Some, lliongh com- 

 paratively little, of tlie electricity comes down as lightniny;. During 

 three rainy seasons witliin the tropics, I iieard and saw much 

 tiiunder and lightning among tiie clouds, but I never heard of a 

 lightning stroke reaching tlie ground, though such instances may 

 possilily have rarely occurred witliout my knowledge. Therefore 

 on the equatorial zone the electricity must accumulate on the top 

 of the atmosi)here. This it must the more naturally do because 

 above the unstable strata of the atmosphere, which moves north 

 and south, there is a much taller stable stratum which remains 

 always in the same latitudes. On this curious subject see the 

 latter part of my paper on Meteors, in the Proceedings of the 

 American Association for the Advancement of Science, for 1871. 

 This accumulation of electricity on the equatorial region must 

 meet the same fate as the accumulations near the polar regions. 

 It must be driven off by the solar electric repulsion, and point with 

 tall streamers away from the sun and form the zodiacal light. The 

 zodiacal light has the same color and appearance as a large 

 streamer of the aurora borealis, being brighter below and paling 

 off slowly to the top, the point above where it fails to impress the 

 eye being undefined and uncertain. It is more steadj' than the 

 aurora, but when watched attentively it is seen on some nights 

 to be broader, or taller, or better defined than on others. Pulsa- 

 tions can sometimes be seen in it, cloud-like movements running up- 

 ward as in the aurora. Its greater steadiness can be accounted 

 for by the greater steadiness and calmness of the equatorial re- 

 gions. And the aurora too appears more stead}' when seen nightly 

 from high northern latitudes than when seen in its extraordinary 

 convulsions from low latitudes. At the equator the zodiacal light 

 can be seen at all times in the year, both in the w^est in the evening, 

 and in the east in the morning, and sometimes making the com- 

 plete arch of the heavens. When in great auroral convulsions we 

 see the tall streamers rising up from all around the horizon, I 

 suppose the southern streamers arise from this equatorial region, 

 and that the zodiacal light and aurora are united. 




1878.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 107 



Fig. 1. The adjoining figure shows a section at the 



^ - ' E equator of our globe and the departing streamers 



which form the zodiacal light, the morning or east- 

 ern one at E,, and the evening or western one at 

 W. At the equator on clear nights they are seen 

 to be continuous b3' a faint arch all across the.sk3% 

 The great authority on this subject is the work 

 of Rev. George Jones, Chaplain in Commodore 

 Perr\-'s Expedition to Japan, in 1853-5, printed by 

 the IT. S. Government in 1856. 



It may be thought that the electric repulsion from the sun should 

 be seen on an ordinai-y electrometer. But our electrometers are 

 deepl}^ immersed in the bottom of our electric atmosphere, and 

 this being near, overpowers the distant influence from the sun, 

 the same as our moon is controlled by the feeble gravity of the 

 earth, and not by the more powerful gravity of the sun. The 

 sun's electric repulsion is seen in giving a general external direc- 

 tion to the earth's electrical envelop, and not in causing small 

 ditfereuces among interior objects. 



The Corona of the Sun. — At total eclipses a whitish irregular 

 ring, nearly as broad as the sun's diameter, appears around the sun. 

 It has been compared with the '"glory" which in catholic pictures 

 appears around the heads of saints. This is the corona. It is 

 doubtless an effulgence, a constant streaming forth of electricity, 

 like the aurora borealis, or like the zodiacal light, from every part 

 of the sun's surface. It cannot be an atmosphere except in its 

 ver3' lowest border, for some comets have passed through it with ■ 

 their speed unaltered and their bodies unaffected. This impunity 

 could not have happened to such large and extremely rare bodies, 

 with such velocities, through any atmosphere. As it cannot be an 

 atmosphere, we can think of it as nothing but an outflow of elec- 

 tricit}', an electrical brush, or as thousands of them united. But 

 what can be the source of this outflow of the electric fluid? We 

 must refer it to the same cause as that from our earth — evapora- 

 tion. As evaporation from the sun is millions of times greater 

 than from our earth, so the evolution of electricity' may be in pro- 

 portion. On earth the best image of the sun is the crater of a vol- 

 cano, and no displaj's of thunder and lightning arc equal to those 

 seen and heard in the ascending volcanic emanations. Among 

 our electric machines there is none so powerful as the one which 




108 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1878. 



goes Iiy cvn|)or:i(i(>ii. 'V\\v. xapor most liiixlily t'li:ir<fO(l with elec- 

 tricity issues (Voin many small orifices in the sides of a tube. The 

 electric fluid in tiiis case has been supposed to arise from the 

 friction of the vapor against the sides of the orifices; but this con- 

 jecture is loose and unsatisfactory. Even if it be true in whole 

 or ill j)art, there is somcthiii<f like it in th(! sun. The great mass 

 of the sun consists of molten, liipiid mattcis, witii a specific gravity 

 one-fourth heavier than water or ice. This is the great source of 

 liglit and heat. Around this is an envelo]) of flames from 2()()0 to 

 4000 miles high. This height is ascertained by the depressions 

 of tile spots, which are solids partiall\' cooled, and floating like 

 cakes of ice on water. This tall enveloi) of flames is the so-called 

 photosphere, having suspended in it many diflerent solar elements, 

 and the thousands of their fixed spectroscopic lines are dark, be- 

 cause the chief light of the sun comes from the incandescent liquid 

 below. In that liquid chemical action is going on with incon- 

 ceivable force, and its products are not onl^' heat and light, but 

 red vapors. From the vast amounts of some of these vapor jets, 

 we must suppose that large bubbles of vapor, several hundred 

 miles in diameter, are formed thousands of miles down in the in- 

 terior of the sun. Tliey must be sui)jecfc to enormous hydraulic 

 pressure, and in the same proportion they must be ejected upwards 

 with enormous velocities, some more and others less, depending 

 on their sizes and the depths from which they come. Some rise 

 as high as 20,000 or .30,000 miles. Others mount up to 70,000, 

 and some few have been seen to reach 100,000, and according to 

 Prof. Young even 200,000 miles, with velocities proportioned to 

 their heights. The i)ropelling i)ower of these jets has never before 

 been published. They seem to be innumerable, and the red vapor, 

 after rising, falls back like the waters of a fountain. Sometimes 

 the vapor at our distance is invisible in the solar atmosphere 

 where it condenses into visible clouds, and down from the bottom 

 of the clouds some spectroscopists have perceived appearances 

 like the fall of rain from a shower-cloud. What this vapor is 

 composed of we need not now inquire. It is generally said to be 

 hydrogen gas, because some of the hvdrogen lines appear in its 

 spectrum. But this cannot be, because it is red, and hydrogen is 

 a colorless invisible gas. It is not permanent, but condenses and 

 falls ; whereas hj'drogen is a permanent gas, and must accumulate 

 indefinitely on the solar surface unless it takes fire and burns, of 




1878.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 109 



which there is not the least appearance. Hydrogen has only 

 four fixed lines in its spectrum, but Prof. Young has seen ne!ril3^ 

 3G0 in the red vapors of the sun. Probablj-, therefore, it is a 

 complex vapor consisting of several elements ; and, like our vapors 

 here, it may be a source of electricity. Like a li^-dro-electric ap- 

 paratus, it may also generate electricit}' bj^ the friction as the huge 

 bubbles rise up so swiftly from the deep interior of tlie sun, ' 



In appearance and in action there is a perfect identity between 

 our aurora borealis and the corona of tlie sun. The lower portions 

 of both are white without any variations of tint. Above their 

 bases begin their radiations — tall streamers reaching upwards. 

 The streamers are brightest below, and gradually pale off towards 

 their tops, and these toi)S vanisli away in space so as to be unde- 

 fined. In both the largest and brightest streamers reach out the 

 furthest, because thej' are the fullest and most copious jets or 

 brushes of the electric fluid. Taking them altogetlier the line of 

 their contours above is a very broken jagged line. Hence around 

 the sun the contour of the corona is often not circular but trape- 

 zoidal and otherwise irregular. Between the bright radiations of 

 the corona there are darkish lines extending outwards, not really 

 dark, but faint spaces less brightened by the rays. Wider spaces 

 between the rays are called "rifts;" the same as there may be 

 deep depressions, nearly vacant spaces, in our auroras between 

 two tall streamers. These radiations and rifts in the solar corona 

 have been photographed. 



The same rapid changes in our aurora are seen in the solar 

 corona. Sometimes the corona is large, and then it is so bright 

 that the eye can scarcely endure its splendor. It then extends 

 far outward, and is very irregular in its exterior contour — the 

 streamers in some places are seen to rise a million of miles high. 

 At other times the corona is small and pale, and without radia- 

 tions, or such radiations as are easily perceptible. Then its form 

 around the sun is circular, and nearly even in contour. Prof 

 Newcomb, describing the total eclipse of 1810, said, "Instead of 

 the gorgeous spectacle I witnessed in the total eclipse of 1869, I 

 saw only the most insignificant corona." Speaking of the "great 

 changes in brilliancy'," he says, " the corona of 1869 seemed to me 

 many times more brilliant that that in 1810." "The light of the 

 latter seemed everywhere as soft and diffused as the zodijical 

 light." Still even then, other observers, probably with clearer 




no PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1878. 



skies, could detect r:\yfi^ as Prof. Eastman and Capt. Tupjnan. 

 Professor Ilarkiiess, writing of tlie eclipse of 1870, said," I do not 

 think tlie corona more tlian half or two-thirds as extensive as that 

 I witnessed in ISfi'J. On that occasion it had a well-marked tra- 

 pezoidal form, but this time it seemed to me more nearly circular." 

 "Otto Strnve, observing at Leipsic, in 1842, found the corona so 

 brigiit that the naked e^'e could scarcely endure it. Mr. -Airy lias 

 been fortunate enough to witness several total eclipses, and he 

 testifies that the corona was much brighter in some than in others. 

 Tlie experience of the oflicers of this oliservator}' is the same." 

 Here the aurora borealis shows precisel}' the same ditferences at 

 different times. Jt may be large, bright, distinctly radiated, with 

 a roiigli, uneven contour; or it ma}' be small, faint, without radi- 

 ations, and perfectly circular on its top. 



Not only from year to 3'ear, but even during the brief period of 

 a total eclipse, the corona of the sun changes l)efore the eye. In 

 this respect also it is identical with our aurora borealis. Streamers 

 in both shoot up almost with tlie velocity of liglit. I have seen 

 in one aurora strong undulations, like wiiile clouds, fly up from 

 our northern horizon to the auroral corona, south of the zenith, 

 in the fraction of a second. The great comet in 1843 passed around 

 the sun in about two hours, and its tail, more than 100,000,000 

 miles long, must have swept around through an arc of 300 degrees 

 in that short period. It could not have swung around like a stiff 

 lever from the comet; for that, considering the small mass of the 

 comet, would have been contrary to the laws of matter and of 

 motion. It must have darted off from the comet every instant 

 100,000,000 miles^ with the velocity of light. Nothing but elec- 

 tricity can do this. Now the conviction fastens itself on our 

 minds, that the' streamers of the solar corona must be capable of 

 the same out-darting velocit3\ What happens on our own glol)e 

 and on the comets may happen in the sun. Hereafter observers 

 of total eclipses will watch attentively to see the movements in tiie 

 solar streamers. 



Already we have a beginning in these facts. Captain Tnpman, 

 in his report to Professor Harkness al)out the eclipse of 1870, writes 

 as follows: "The first part of the corona that attracted my atten- 

 tion was a ray or enlargement at the right upper quadrant, a little 

 to the right of the ver}' bright protuberance, A ; but by the time 

 you had done Avith the polariscope, which could scarcely have been 




18*r8.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. Ill 



ten seconds, the left and lower parts, B to C in the figure, were 

 the brightest and the largest ; and so tliey remained until near the 

 end of the totalit}', when the part, D, in the right lower quadrant, 

 almost if not quite rivalled tliem. The ra}', D, did not enlarge 

 suddenly, but very gradually indeed. The upper j^art of the corona 

 was throughout the faintest. The extreme right was also fiiint 

 until quite at the end of totality, when it brightened a little. No 

 part increased in brilliancy without extending itself further from 

 the moon at the same time, so as to become a more or less pointed 

 ray." Just, in fact, as it should do if it were the action of elec- 

 tricit3^ A copious outgush of the electric fluid would enlarge and 

 brighten the ray and extend it far outward as an electric brush. 

 The evidence is strong that the corona of the sun varies, like the 

 aurora borealis, not only from year to year, but even during the 

 short space of a total eclipse. 



I have now brought together the chief facts about the corona of 

 the sun. They are like those of the aui'ora borealis. The aurora 

 is well known to be electric. And all the facts of the corona are 

 perfectly explained by the same theory'. Regarding the corona 

 as being a great electric brush, we have also an explanation why 

 the aurora and the zodiacal light point, like the tails of comets, 

 awa}' from the sun. The}' are driven off bj- the sun's electric re- 

 pulsion. If tlie sun's electric brush extends off on every side a 

 million of miles from our stand-poiut, then if we stood nearer, sa}' 

 at the orbit of ^lercury, we would likel}' be able to see them extend 

 twice as far. The power, the repulsive force, of such an enormous 

 mass of electricity^ is beyond our estimation bj- any reasoning, a 

 jyriori. Facts alone must teach us Iiow far its repulsive force 

 may extend, and such facts we see in the diurnal and in tiie eleven 

 years' periodicit}^ of the aurora, and in the diurnal periodicity of 

 the zodiacal light. Such facts we see much more irapressivel}' in 

 the directions of the tails of comets driven off by tlie mighty re- 

 pulsion of the solar corona. To the comets we will now attend. 



The Tails of Comets regarded as Electric Brushes. — Here on 

 our earth some materials evolve much more electricity than 

 others. Tin, zinc, and mercury, duly mixed, are found to be the 

 best for friction machines; and a like selection of acids and 

 metals is necessary for the galvanic battery. The materials of tlie 

 sun and of the comets are ver}-^ different from ours, and, therefore, 

 they evolve much greater quantities of electricity. The fixed lines 




112 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1878. 



ill tlic sol.'ir spcct nun aic iiiiniinerable, :in<l indicate htindferls, 

 j>i(>li;il»i y llioiisaiids, of siinplc clomeiits in tlif fsun. Onl\' :il)oiit 

 a half dozen of them are terrestrial, and some of these, such as the 

 iron, may have fallen in the sun as meteors. Thousands of solid 

 meteors strike our earth annually, and the iron ones occasionally 

 weigh thousands of pounds. More and heavier meteors must fall 

 in the sun. The materials of comets we know to he very different, 

 because they are such light Ixtdies, and they are easil}' evaporated 

 and dilated by solar heat . A comet at a distance ajjpears large, 

 but nearer the sun it seems smaller, because much of its mass is 

 so dilated by solar heat as to be invisible. As the cometic and 

 the solar elements are so different from the terrestrial, it is not 

 strange or singular that their evaporation gives out more electric 

 fluid than the saline waters of our ocean. 



Comets present appi-arances so (liHereiit from the other celestial 

 bodies, that they have been a terror to the world, and even scien- 

 tific men have regarded them as totally difleieiit in their natures 

 from the other stars. IJut they are i)recisely similar to the other 

 stars ; the onl}^ ditfercuce being that the3' carry some few ordinary 

 princii)lcs to excess. Their bodies are solid and very small ; in 

 modern times they have repeatedly occulted the stars. Their 

 atmospheres are unusually large. They are easily- evaporated and 

 dilated by the sun's rays; and in this eva[)oralion they evolve 

 unusual amounts of the electric fluid. This is all. These few 

 facts explain all their wonders without exception. 



From their smallness they do not make their appearance in the 

 outer regions of the solar system. Donati's comet in 185^, so 

 magnificent when near, was first seen by the telescope as a faint 

 nebulosity at only half the distance of Jupiter, whose diminutive 

 moons are so easily seen with the smallest telescope. As they 

 approach the sun their j^eculiar elements are easily evaporated ; 

 from this evaporation their electricity is evolved, which, rising up 

 through their atmospheres, produces light; tlie same as it pro- 

 duces light in our own atmosphere, from the mild glow of the 

 aurora to the brilliant lightning. When first visible they are a 

 faint nebulosity. On coming nearer to the sun, their evaporation 

 is so rajjid, and their electric outflow is so al)undant, that they 

 are the most splendid objects in the heavens, and often they have 

 been seen in the daytime, even in the close neighborhood of the 

 sun. These facts show that very little of their light is the reflected 




1878.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 113 



radiance of the sun. It is chiefly theii- own independent luminosity 

 sprino^ing from electric excitement. 



This light is seen to arise from the side toward the sun, and, 

 therefore, from tlie most heated and evaporated side. It rises 

 narrowly fan-shaped; very narrow and bright below, and spread- 

 ing and paling upwards through the cometic atmospliei'e. It is 

 then, liy the repulsion of the sun's corona, driven backward all 

 around like a fountain away from the sun, and it forms tiic tail, 

 which generally spreads and becomes fainter, until it is lost by 

 (lisi)ersion. Its resemblance to our auroral streamers is tlien com- 

 plete. In the summer of 1874, when Coggia's comet ap[)eared in 

 our northern horizon, with its large, broad tail projecting straight 

 upward, I was on Mount Desert Island, far up the coast of Maine, 

 where the auroral streamers rise beautifull}' almost every niglit. 

 The rise of those streamers, and the rise of the comet's tail, were 

 identical in ever}- particular. Both were of the same color and 

 tint; both were brighter below and gradually paled off upwards. 

 Their tops had the same indefinite ending, and both plainly length- 

 ened and shortened while attentivelj' watched. Tremulous waves 

 ran upwards through them both — whitish, cloud-like appearances — 

 as if the}^ were special gushes of the electric fluid hastening to 

 escape, and carrying out the tops of both to a further distance. 

 The same cloud-like impulses pass through our artificial auroral 

 tubes. But they are plainer to our view in our near auroral 

 tubes, less plain in the aurora brushes, and faintest of all in the 

 tails of comets. These three gradations depend on the distance. 

 I remarked that the general brightness of the comet's tail, so many 

 million miles off, was about equal to that of the aurora borealis, 

 so comparatively near; proving that the amount of the electric 

 fluid from the comet must have been inconceivabl}' the greater. 



It is a cardinal fact that the tails of comets do not occult the 

 stars. If their tails were vapors of any kind, the occultations 

 would be decided and constant ; therefore the apparent vapor 

 rising up from the sunny side of the comet is really the electric 

 fluid. 



The tail of a comet must be a hollow tube, because it springs 

 from the sunward side, and falls back around on every side, like 

 the waters of a fountain, and its own self-repulsion hinders it from 

 coming together. Hence there appears a dark line througU the 

 centre of the tail, because from there, less electric light meets the 




114 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1878. 



cjc than from the bonlcrs wliose c(l<i;t'S are tiirno<l towards us. The 

 (lark lint' cannot he the shadow of tlie niieleiis, because a shadow 

 cannot curve as did Hoiiati's comet. 



The fan-shaped jet of light arisins^ throuo;!! the front of the 

 comet's atmosphere is not always steady, hut breaks out at dif- 

 ferent places, ''as from points of least resistance." Hence the 

 tail is sometimes described us unstead}', and to " sv/ay to and fro 

 like a willow branch." 



Auroral arches arise over our northern horizon and hover there 

 for a while, occasionally two or three above one another, and then 

 dart oif in streamers. Exactly the same luminous arches rise in 

 front of the comet, and the streamers then become the tail. But 

 there is this difference. The streamers of the aurora rise from the 

 convex side of the arch ; those of the comet are driven backward 

 by the solar corona, and seem to depart from the concave side. 



The head of a comet is solid, with perhaps some exceptions, and 

 the bright glovv of light all around it is called the nucleus. The 

 broader and paler atmosphere is called the coma or hair. But 

 some writers call the tail the coma. In tlie coma or atmosphere 

 there may be clouds, as in our own ; and these clouds have been 

 seen to be lit up by the electric passage. A comet may have many 

 tails, as man^' as six. This is because in the solid nucleus there 

 may be many points of least resistance, out of which the streams 

 of vapor and electricit3'^ flow. 



The greatest wonder about comets is the length of their tails; 

 some of them are 120,000,000 miles long and even moi-e. The dia- 

 meter across the tail has lieen known to be 15,000,000 miles. But 

 is it {)ossible that there could have been so much electric force in 

 a comet as to send ont such an electric brush ? We may as well 

 ask iiow it is possible for our sun to send out such a mass of heat 

 and light uninterruptedly during hundreds of millions of years? 

 The answer is, that tlie materials of the sun and of comets are so 

 very different from those in our earth. The enormous hetero- 

 geneit}' of matter should be more studied b}' the scientific men of 

 our day. This neglect is now their great fault. All matter was 

 once many billion times more rare than hydrogen ; not dilated by^ 

 heat, but by its own native repulsion. This we know from the 

 teachings of the nebular theory. Even yet hydrogen is a million 

 and a quarter times less condensed than platinum. What differ- 

 ences there may be in the heat-giving power, or in the electric- 




IStS.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 115 



producing power, of the materials of other celestial orbs, we are 

 perfectly unable, a priori^ to tell. All that we know is from what 

 we see. 



The electric composition of these great tails becomes manifest 

 from the way they go around tlie sun. Some great comets go 

 around the sun in about two hours, as that of 184.3, the tail all the 

 while pointing away from the sun. Its outer end could not have 

 swung around like a stiff lever through a space of 700,000,000 

 miles in so short a time. That would have been inconsistent, as I 

 have already said, with the laws of matter and of motion. The 

 tail must, therefore, have darted out continuously from the comet 

 as an electric brush, and it must have been repelled in its direc- 

 tion away from the sun by the sun's more powerful electric mass. 

 There is something clearly defined and decided in the huge tail 

 pointing away from the sun in its approach, and then apparently 

 swinging around with the velocity of lightning, and on its de- 

 parture pointing away from the sun again. The electric theory of 

 the constitution of the solar system explains the wonder clearly 

 and easil}', and nothing else can. 



Evaporation explains why the tails of comets have become 

 shorter on successive visits. The tail of Halley's comet was first 

 described as being excessive. In 1682, it was 30° in length ; in 

 1835, its greatest length was only 20°. For the first two months 

 in 1835 it had no tail. It began on October 2d. On the 5th, it 

 was 4° or 5° long. On the 15th, it had gained its greatest length, 

 20°. On the 20th, it was only 3°. Afterwards, at its perihelion 

 passage, it liad no tail. The explanation is that all these elements, 

 whose evaporation evolved the electric fluid, had turned into vapor 

 before perihelion, and then there could be no further evaporation 

 with evolution of the tail. But a condensation of much of that 

 vapor must again take place in the cold outer region away from 

 the sun; and this recondensed material must furnish anotiier tail 

 on its next visit — a smaller tail, however, for a portion of the 

 vapor must be carried awa3^ with the electric fluid, and scattered 

 into distant space. When comets have no tails, it may be that 

 they have never possessed any of those peculiar elements on whose 

 evaporation the tail depends, or that by repeated visits to the sun 

 all their powerful electric elements have been lost. 



The electric theory explains the various forms of the tail.^ That 

 of 1843, which was more than 100,000,000 miles long, appeared 




110 PROCEEDINOS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1878. 



like a straii^ht cv-liiulcr of lijjjht with vcmt liltle difrerciux' in tiiiok- 

 ness tlirongli the wholi; length. I reniemlier it well. It was very 

 near the sun, wliose large electric mass and powi'iliil r<'|Milsi(jn 

 drove off the smaller mass in right lines. The snn was the great 

 prime condnetor fidly charged, and the comet was only like a small 

 ijighly-charged pith hall. The tail of Coggia's comet, being much 

 furtlu'r from the sun, was more spreading and fan-like. On account 

 of greater distance, the sun's force was less, and tlu; self-repulsion 

 widened the tail. The tail of Donali's comet was spreading on ac- 

 count of the distance from the sun, and gracefully curved. This 

 curving was because the; comet was moving nearly at right angles 

 to the direction toward the sun. and as the tail was 

 not repelled out rapidly', it fell beiiind the comet in its Fig. 2. 

 progress. In our figure S represents the sun, and C the •# 



comet moving in the direction of the arrow, and getting 

 in advance of the extreme end of its tail. ■*-*€ 



Our theory tells why some comets have been split in ,5 



two or three parts, and finally into thousands of meteors. 

 Although they are solid bodies, their cohesion is very slight. "With 

 a cotton string I tied in a bundle a handful of the downy tufted 

 seeds of the milk-weed, ^.»c'Z<^/n'a.s incarna/a, which is abundant here. 

 The other end of the string I connected with the prime conductor 

 of a large electric machine. On turning the crank m}^ bundle was 

 soon dissipated, torn iiy electric repulsion into many parts, which 

 flevv away. The repulsion was too strong for my t3'ing. So it ma}' 

 be too strong for the weak cohesion of a comet. It may divide 

 the comet first into two parts, and then into shreds, which may 

 form meteor streams like those of August and November. When 

 Biela was divided into two, it is significant that each part was still 

 a perfect comet, having a head, a nucleus, and a tail. The two 

 alternated several times in brightness, according as the electric 

 fluid was liberated more freel}' from one than froni the other. In 

 a thunder-storm we see the lightning leap suddenly from cloud to 

 cloud. This violence is from the resistance of the air. But the 

 two i)ortions of Biela were in a vacuum, and a pale band of the 

 electric fluid was seen to pass from the brighter to the fainter 

 portion, the same as we see it pass through an exhausted auroral 

 tube. 



The two parts of Biela continued steadily to separate as though 

 driven apart by their electric repulsion. Before their disappear- 




1878.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 117 



ance the distance between them was 160,000 miles, and by their 

 next return that distance had grown to be 1,250,000 miles. On the 

 night of the 13th and 14tli of November, 1857, the officers of the 

 Observatory at Wasiiington counted 3000 meteors in an hour. 

 Professor Newcomb calculated that on an average every meteor 

 occupied as its own territory 900,000 cubic miles. The gravity of 

 the sun could separate them only in one direction ; but their 

 nearly even diffusion every way seems like the work of electric re- 

 pulsion. The meteors of the August stream are still more widely 

 dispersed. 



We can now see how comets may shorten their periods without 

 the theory of a terrible ponderable resisting medium ex- 

 isting everywhere. That is a most violent theory, and 

 threatens to break down the entire solar system on the 

 sun. Let the curve A, B, C, D be the elliptic orbit 

 of a comet, and S the sun in a focus. Let the comet on 

 its approach move any distance from A to B in a day, 

 and an equal distance from C to D in the same time on 

 its departure. The electricity of the sun repels tiie comet, because 

 both are clothed with electricity ; the same as a charged prime 

 conductor repels a charged pith-ball. For simplicity of conception 

 let the repulsive influence from the sun move just as fast as the 

 comet in these two regions of its orbit; that is, from B to A, and 

 from C to D, in one day. Then on its approach the comet must 

 suffer resistance in moving from A to B ; but it finds no influence 

 at all in moving from C to D. The same principle must apply 

 neaily all around the orbit. Whatever the diHerence between the 

 velocity of the con)et and that of the rejudsive force from the sun, 

 it must remain true that from aphelion to perihelion the comet 

 must lose more velocity from the electric repulsion of the sun than 

 it gains by that repulsion, in moving fiom perihelion to aphelion. 

 Therefore, upon the whole, the comet must suffer resistance from 

 the electric repulsion of the sun, and its peiiod must be shortened. 

 This resistance is all the more effective from the great size and 

 small mass of the comet. Encke's comet, which gave rise to the 

 " resisting medium" theory, is highly electric, as is shown in the 

 drawings of Professor Asaph Hall, made on its return in 1871, 

 printed in 1872. For one, I am happy in being relieved from the 

 dangerous, cumbersome, and highly improbable "resisti^ig me- 

 dium" theory. 




118 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACAHEMY OP [1878. 



It has l)cf<)rc been surmised by souk; tliat the solar corona is 

 electric. Otliers liave thouifht that tiie tails of comets are electric. 

 Tile aurora lias been proved to l)e electric. IJiit no one has con- 

 jectuied tiic origin of these electricities, except that evaporation 

 lias been regarded as one of tlie origins of terrestrial atmospheric 

 electricity. No one has assigned evaporation as the cause of the 

 solar corona. Sir John Ilerschel lielieved tlie tails of comets to 

 be vapors of some kind, raised by the heat of the sun, and driven 

 awa}' by some unknown repulsion from tiie sun. IJut his vapors 

 were wot the electric fluid, and his repulsion was not electric re- 

 l)ulsion. See his " Outlines " No one has said that t!ie zodiacal 

 ligiit is electric, and that tliis and the auroral streamers, always 

 like comets, point away from the sun. No one has regarded 

 all these phenomena as emanating from a common cause: the solar 

 heat causing evaporation. No one has supposed that the far dis- 

 tant solar corona, by mere .electric repulsion, drives off the tails 

 of comets, the auroral streamers, and the zodiacal light. A highlj'- 

 charged electric machine affects a delicate electrometer far off on 

 the opposite side of a wide room; but this wonder, until now, was 

 not fruitful in originating our theory. Now, first, all these distant 

 facts have been brought together, and they are seen to form a har- 

 monious system. A new spiritual influence is found to pervade 

 our entire solar system. If, in this sj'stem, the solar repulsion 

 drives off the tails of comets 120,000,000 miles with nearly the 

 velocity of light, why sliould it not reach, like gravitation, to the 

 nearest fixed stars ? What and where is to be the end of this new 

 advancement ? 




ISTS.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 119 



April 2. 



The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 



T\vent3'-six persons present. 



Tiie death of Dr. Charles Picliering, a correspondent, was an- 

 nounced. 



Toilet Habits ofAnts.—KQv. H. C. McCooK stated that the agri- 

 cultural ant — and the remarlv applies to all other ants of which he 

 had knowledge — is one of the neatest of creatures in her personal 

 hal)its. He thought he had never seen one of his imprisoned har- 

 A'esters, either barbatus or crudelis, in an untidy condition. The}' 

 issue from their burrows, after the most active digging, even when 

 the earth is damp, without being perce[)tibly soiled. Such minute 

 particles of dirt as cling to the body are carefully removed. In- 

 deed the whole body is frequently and thoroughly cleansed, a duty 

 which is habitually, he might almost venture to say invariabl}', 

 attended to after eating and after sleep. In this process the ants 

 assist one another; and it is an exceedingly interesting sight 

 which is presented to the observer when this general "washing 

 up" is in progress. In the evening, wiien the gas-lamp upon his 

 table is lit, and he had leisure from professional duties to watch 

 his insect friends, he had manv times kept them under notice for 

 protracted periods. They crowd against the glass, and gather in 

 groups upon the earth close up to it and cleanse themselves, 

 cleanse each other, and sleei). The first operatitm is conducted as 

 follows: The ant to whom tlie friendly office is being adminis- 

 tered (the cleansed, she may be called) is leaning over upon one 

 side as we begin the observation. The cleanser las we may nara.e 

 the other party) is in the act of lifting the fore leg, which is licked, 

 the mouth passing steadil}' from the tarsus up to the liody ; next, 

 the neck is licked, then the prothorax, then the head. The cleanser 

 now leaves, and the cleansed begins to operate upon herself as will 

 be described hereafter. This process may be seen throughout the 

 entire group. We take another couple ; the cleanser has Ijcgun at 

 the face, Avhich is licked thoroughly, even the mandibles being 

 cared for, they being held apart for convenient manipulation. 

 From the face the cleanser passes to the thorax, thence to the 

 haunch, and so along the first leg, the second and third in the 

 same manner, around to the abdomen, and thence up the other 

 side of the ant to the head. A third ant approaches and joins in 

 the friendly task, but soon abandons the field to the original 

 cleanser. The attitude of the cleansed all this while is (^ne of 

 intense satisfaction, quite resembling that of a family dog when 

 one is scratching the back of his neck. The insect stretches out 




120 PROCEEDINOS OK THE ACADEMY OF [1878. 



her limbs, aiul as her friend takes tliein successively into hand, 

 yieUls them limp and supple to iier niaiiipiiIatiDU ; she rolls <j;ently 

 over upon her side, even quite over iip<in her iiack, and with all 

 her limits relaxed [)resents a perfect picture of niiiscidar surrender 

 and ease. The pleasure which the creatures take in being thus 

 "combed" and " sjtonged" is really enjoyable to the observer, lie 

 liad seen an ant kueel down ln-foie another, an<l thrust forward 

 the head, droopin<>;, (luite under the face, and lie there motion- 

 less, thus expressing as plainly as sign-language couM her desire 

 to be cleansed. He understood the gesture, and so did the su|)pli- 

 cated ant, for she at once went to work. If analogies in nature- 

 studies were not so apt to be misleading, one might venture to sug- 

 gest that our insect friends are thus in possession of a modified 

 sort of emmetonian 'riiikish bath! 



The acrobatic skill of these ants, which had often furnished him 

 amusement, was fnll}'^ shown one morning in these otiices of alilu- 

 tion. The formicary was taken from the study where the air had 

 becomechilled,and placed in an adjoining chamber upon the hearth, 

 before an open grate (ire. The genial warmth was soon diffused 

 throughout the nest, and aroused the occupants to unusual ac- 

 tivit}'. A tuft of grass in the centre of the box was presently 

 covered with them. They climbed to the very top of the spires, 

 turned around and around, hanging by their paws, not unlike 

 gymnasts performing upon a turniug-l)ar. They hung or clung 

 in various positions, grasping the grass-blade witli the third and 

 fourth pairs of legs, which were spread out at length, cleansing 

 their heads with the fore legs or bending underneath to comb and 

 lick the abdomen. Among these ants were several pairs, in one 

 case a trii)let, engaged in the cleansing operation just described. 

 The cleanser clung to the grass, while the cleansed hung in a like 

 position l)elow, and reached over and up, submitting herself to the 

 pleasant process. As the progress of the act required a change of 

 [)Osture on the part of both insects, it was made with the utmost 

 agility. 



The ants engaged in cleansing their own bodies have various 

 modes of operating. The fore legs are drawn i)etween the mandii)les, 

 and, as far as could be ascertained, also through or along the lips, 

 and then are passed alternately back of the head, over and down 

 the foi'chead and face, by a motion which closely resembles that 

 of a cat when cleansing with her paw the correspf>nding part of 

 her head. Sometimes but one side of the head is cleansed, in wliicii 

 case the foot used is drawn through the mandibles or across the 

 teeth of one mandible after evers- two or three strokes upon the 

 face. These strokes are always made downward, following thus 

 the direction of the hairs. The hairs upon the til)ia and the tarsus 

 seem to serve the purpose of a brush or coml), and he had thought 

 that the object in drawing the leg through the teeth or between the 

 mandibles is to straighten up the hairs, and thus increase their 




18Y8.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 121 



efficienc}'' for service. Not onl}' the fore pair, but also tlie other 

 legs are passed, as above described, tlirough the mouth. The 

 second and third pairs are also and oftener cleansed hy the fore 

 legs as follows: the ant throws herself over upon her side, draws 

 up the middle and hind legs, which are interlocked at the tarsi, 

 and then, clasping them witli one fore leg, presses the other down- 

 vs^ard along the otiier two. The fore legs alternate in tliis motion. 

 When the legs of one side are cleansed, the ant reverses iier posi- 

 tion, and repeats the process. When the antennae are cleansed 

 they appear to be taken between the curved spur at the extremity 

 of the tibia and the tibia itself, as one would clasp an object be- 

 tween the l>ase of the thuml) and the hand, and are drawn toward 

 the tip of the flagelhim, evidently with some pressure. He had 

 thought that he could notice this si)ur also used as a brush or 

 scraper in the general application of the fore leg to the hodj'. It 

 seems to have an articulation at its junction with the tibia. 



The cleansing of the abdomen places the ant in a grotesque atti- 

 tude. The hind legs are thrown backward and well extended, the 

 middle pair nearly straight outward from the thorax, and less 

 extended, so that the body is able to assume a nearly erect pos- 

 ture. The abdomen is then turned under the body and upward 

 toward the head, which is at the same time bent over and down- 

 ward. The hod3' of the ant thus forms a letter C, or nearly a circle. 

 The fore feet have meanwhile clasped the abdomen, and the work 

 of brushing has begun. Tlie strokes are directed upward toward 

 the apex of the abdomen, and the foot passes around and beneath 

 the under part, which is now toward the sternum. The apex is 

 frequently licked l>y the tongue, and the feet are occasionally passed 

 through the mouth (not simply between the mandibles), after 

 which the}'^ again are applied as before. Evidently moisture is 

 conveyed from the mouth and rubbed upon the abdomen. He had 

 so frequently observed this action that he could hardly be mis- 

 taken in the glossy appearance which showed the presence of 

 moisture upon the surface. Occasionally' tlie leg is rubbed over 

 tlie head after being drawn through the mouth, and so again to 

 the abdomen. Usually the abdomen is held a little distance from 

 the sternum, but he had seen it pressed up close against the breast, 

 while the outer (upper) part was being cleansed. One ant was seen 

 cleansing its abdomen while hanging bj- the hind legs from the roof 

 of the formicarium. The abdomen was thrown up and between 

 these legs, just as a performer on the turning-bar throws his body 

 and legs upward and between the arms. The head was reached 

 upward from below to the apex of the abdomen, while tongue and 

 fore feet were engaged upon it in the usual way. 



The amount of time devoted to these toilet duties is very great 

 with his impi'isoned ants, but is probably not so great in a state 

 of natui'e. No doubt with ants, as with men, an artificial con- 

 dition of society gives inducement to a larger devotion to personal 



9 




122 PR0CEEDIN08 OF THE ACADEMY OF [1878. 



appearance. He liad not licen able to give llicm much attention 

 (luring tlie day ; but wlien tliey arc transferred to the neigiibor- 

 hood of register or lire-phice, and thus are made unusually com- 

 fortable, they at once begin their ablutions. Invariably, at night, 

 when the gas-lamp is lit and jtlaced near the glass formicaries, the 

 heat and light, both of which appear to be gratel'ul to them, tem|)t 

 them out, as already stated, and they begin o|)erations. So also 

 after eating, and when awaking from sleep. In short, whenever 

 they are in a parlicidarly comfortable state they express their 

 satisfaction by making their toilet. 



.Notes on Acer ruhrum. — Mr. Thomas Meehan observed that 

 polygamous ])lants were defined as those which liad hermaphrodite 

 an(i male and female tlowers on the same or separate plants, and, 

 in some of our text-books, the red maple was given as an illustra- 

 tion. But though the red maple had fiUl-sized autiiers in the 

 early stage of the female flowers, tiie stamens were never fully 

 developed, or were poUeniferous, so far as his experience extended. 

 According to his observations, the casual observer might be par- 

 doned for supposing what are really l)Ut female flowers are herma- 

 [)hrodite ; for, on the bursting of the i)etals, tlie centre of the flower 

 seems a mass of ))erfeclly formed anthers. At this particular 

 stage of the inflorescence, the ai)pearances in the male and female 

 flowers are exactly alike, except that in the female flowers the apices 

 of the two pistils are visible in the centre of the mass of stamens 

 in the one case, while they are wholly absent in the other. But, 

 with the expansion of the ))etals, all growth in the stamens ceases 

 in the ])istillate flowers. They remain in this untinished condition, 

 while the pistils continue to elongate and the ovaria to enlarge, 

 eventually drying n|) and falling away. In the male flowers, how- 

 ever, the filaments lengthen to one-fourth, and occasionally in 

 some trees to half an inch ; and, when the proper time comes, 

 the anther cells burst and the i)ollen escapes. Why the stamens 

 should be advanced to this stage in the female flowers to be su()- 

 pressed just before their full develoi)ment does not appear. It is 

 an interestins; i)roblem awaiting further investigation, but it leaves 

 ns with the fiict that the flowers are none of them truly hermaphro- 

 dite. The red maple is really a dicecious plant. 



Mr. Meehan then proceeded to examine the average proportion 

 of the sexes among individual trees. On a tract on which were 

 144 trees, apparently ten to fifteen years old, he found 34 of them 

 not yet in flowering condition ; of the remaining 1 10, 41 were 

 females and 69 males, showing about one-third more males tiian 

 females. lie had examined a large numl)er of trees of mature 

 age, but so far as he could ascertain there was no attempt to 

 change tiie sexual characters, but each tree was male or female 

 throughout its life. In all that has so far l)een said of the struc- 

 ture and behavior of the flowers, those of the silver maple, Acer 




1878.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 123 



dasycarpum, correspond, but in the permanency of the sexual cha- 

 racter the silver maple departs here. It is not uncommon to find 

 trees originally female, at some time sending forth male branches. 

 So far as his observations have gone, no male tree ever produces 

 female brandies, nor does a branch once producing male flowers 

 return to a female condition. Notes were made to ascertain 

 whether the mere vegetative vigor or the earlj'^ or lateness of flow- 

 ering had an^'thing to do with tlie sexual conditions ; but though 

 some trees were nearly a week later in opening their flower buds 

 than others, and some trees were weak and starved looking, while 

 others were vigorous, these varieties were as equally divided among 

 those of one sex as the other. 



It was further noted that the male flowers were fragrant, while 

 the female flowers were inodorous, in this respect similar to the 

 willow. The male flowers of the willow are eagerly sought for 

 b}- bees which collect pollen from them. So far he had found no 

 bees visiting these, though in the warm April days some of the 

 last to be in blossom attract small sand wasps to them. It is 

 probable that bees may under some circumstances visit the flowers, 

 though under this season's observation they had not done so. As 

 it appeared that in man}' cases bees and insects were attracted to 

 flowers b}'^ their odor, and tliat the visits resulted in cross fertili- 

 zation, it was worthy of inquiry by those engaged in this special 

 study what purpose was served by this sweet attraction in cases 

 like this of the maple and willow. Can it be that the red maple 

 or its ancestors were once truly hermaphrodite, and that Avhen 

 the sexes were separated, and the species become anemophilous, 

 fragrance remained as the hereditary remains of u past useful- 

 ness ? 



The following papers were ordered to be published : — 




124 PROCEEDINd.S OF THE ACADEMY OP [1878. 



THE BASILICA SPIDER AND HER SNARE. 

 I>v Uk\. IIenky C McUuuk. 



In the inontli of July, 1S77, I was encamped upon the hills of 

 the Colorado Kiver, a t'liw miles southwest of Austin, studying 

 the habits of the Agricultural and Cutting Ants of Texas. A 

 limited i)ortion of time was given to observations upon spiders, 

 in the course of which tlie object of this sketch was discovered. 

 Her snare was hung about two feet from the ground, ui)on a Imsli 

 which stood in the midst of a grove of young live-oaks. Tiiis 

 snare had the composite structure imperfectly represented in Fig. 

 1. Tlic general form of the snare was that of a pyramid, the 

 upper part of which, r, was a mass of right lines knotted and 

 looped, and crossing in all directions. Witlun this mass was sus- 

 pended an open silken dome, d, constructed of a vast number of 

 radii, crossed at regular intervals b}* concen tries after the manner 

 of the snare of the common orb-weaving garden spider. The 

 radii were about ^^gth of an inch apart at the bottom or circumfer- 

 ence of the dome. The concentrics extended entireh* and with equal 

 regularity to the summit. They did not cross the radii in circu- 

 lar lines, but presented that notched appearance which is observed 

 in the webs of some orb-weavers, particularly those whose snares 

 are horizontal, as for example, Hentz's Epeira horlorum. The 

 meshes formed by the radii and spirals had thus much tlie shape 

 of the meshes in a fishermar.'s net. (See Fig. 9, ??.) The diame- 

 ter of the dome was from 7 to 8 inches at the base, the height 

 nearly the same. It was suspended in the midst of tiie mass of 

 right lines by silken guys of like character, which thoroughly 

 steadied the delicate structure, and perfectly preserved its form. 

 Beneath the dome, from two to three inches removed, was a light 

 sheet of cobweb, c, irregularly meshed of waving and straight 

 lines. It had a decided convexity upward, and was supported 

 like the dome above it, and of which it seemed to be a protecting 

 curtain, by silken threads or guys, so stretched as exactly to 

 meet this puri)ose. 



Of the many specimens of spinning-work which I liave noted 

 and studied, 1 have never seen one so beaut ful as this. It was 

 with real regret that tiiis rare piece of spider architecture was 




18:8.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF THILADELPHIA. 



125 



destroyed, after it had been sketched, in order that the architect, 

 herself one of the most beautiful of her order, might be collected 

 for the cabinet. The species has been named Epeira baHilica, 

 her architecture having suggested tlie dome-bearing temples of 

 the earlier Christians of the Eastern Church. 



Fio;. 1. 



Fig. 1. Snare of Epeira basilica, d. Duiiie ; c. Curtain beneath ; r. Ketitelarian snare. 



It would l)e an interesting study to the architect of human 

 habitations, to uncover the principles upon which this silken ba- 

 silica was reared. He would doubtless find admirable adaptation 

 of means to ends; he would be likelj' to meet methods quite 

 familiar to himself, and perhaps stumble upon some of which he 

 is yet ignorant. He certainly would have occasion to marvel tiiat 

 a structure so stable could be wrouglit out of such fragile material 

 as spider silk, and that the delicate dome could be so poised in 




126 



PROCEEDINOS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1878. 



Fiff. 



the midst and liy the helj) of silken tliieads as to preserve its j)er- 

 fect form. rerliai)s he woidd rise from the study with a higher 

 appreciatiun of llic (pialities and cliaracter of despised Arachne. 



Nor would he find the creature herself unworthy of admiration 

 as she hangs inverted within and just below the summit of the 

 dome. The term beautiful is rarely associated with individuals 

 of her order, but it may properly be used in this case. The fore 

 part of the bod}', cephalothorax, is of a golden-yellow color, bor- 

 dered and marked with blackish bands. The legs are a delicate 

 green, having the thighs marked by blackish longitudinal bands, 



and blackish annuli at the joints. On 

 tiie back of the abdomen the colors 

 within the blackish marginal lines are 

 as follows: At the base, next the 

 coplialotliorax, a snowy while; the mid- 

 dle lobes are a light yellow, the lower 

 lobes and the cruciform figure (showing 

 Avhite in the illustration), are a golden- 

 yellow. The bands and markings on 

 the side of the abdomen, a view of which 

 is given at a. Fig. 2, are in the follow- 

 ing order from the top, viz., crimson, 

 white, dark-green with light-green edges, 

 blackish to dark green, 3'ellow. Even 

 the most fastidious lady would find it 

 hard for her nerves to prompt a cry of 

 "horrid spider!" against a creature bearing such delicate colors 

 and dwelling in such a fairy-like domicile. In sooth, the ill repu- 

 tation of spiderhood is had from those forms 

 that affect the neighborhood of man, as cellars, 

 out-houses, and kitchen walls. These are among 

 spiders what vultures are among the birds. If 

 one would see the graceful forms and beautiful 

 colors, he must follow the creature to her favorite 

 haunts in groves, woods, by streams and among 

 meadow grasses, where he shall find many a species that may rival 

 even the butterflies in brilliancy of coating. 



However, the special point of interest about the Basilica spider 

 is neither its architectural skill nor its fair colors. Its chief im- 

 portance in the mind of the araneologist is that it seems to form 



Eptiraba»i'ica,miign\Reil. «■ Pro 

 file ; c. Cephalothoiax. 



Fig. 3. 



•••• 



Eyes of E. ba»ilica, 

 magnified. 




1878.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 127 



a perfect link between the orb-weaving and the line-weaving spi- 

 ders in the characteristic spinning-work of the two groups. The 

 main object of this paper is to exhibit this fact. 



Some of the orb-weavers {Orbitelarise) have associated with 

 their geometrical snare thecliaracteristic snare of the line-weavers 

 (Betitelariee), which is a mass of riglit lines knot- 

 ted together at various angles, and forming at once 

 the home and the snare of the animal. Tlie wel) of 

 the lab^-rinth spider, Ejoeira labyrivithea Hentz, is 

 an example of this, common to at least our p]ast- 

 ern States. Another of these composite webs is 

 Epnra ginhona. that of the Epeiva globostt, Keyserling, Fig. 4, a 

 Female. Length, clescriijlion of wliich is appended to this paper.^ 



.2.5 inch. m 



The curious manner in which the snares of the 

 Orbitelarise and Retitelarise blend may be sufficiently shown by 

 Fig. 5, which illustrates the spinning-work of this spider, as com- 

 pared with Figs. 1 and 6. 



It will be remembered that the simple characteristic web of the 

 orb-weaver is the vertical geometric orb represented at Fig. 5, o. 

 In that example, however, there is a slight variation, as seen at/", 

 in a break in the radii, leaving what is known as a free radius. 

 The bell-shaped den of thick white silk, J, within which tlie spider 

 constantly dwells, is not peculiar to this species ; most of the orb- 

 weavers have a similar tent, or some floss-uphoL-^tered crevice, 

 hole, or leafy nest, within which they conceal themselves fre- 

 quently or habitually. But Ejyeira globosa exhibits two other re- 

 markable additions to the simple orb. First, there is an open but 

 quite distinct tube, gr, attached to the mouth of the den, rf, from 

 which it reaches almost to the centre, c, of the orb to which the 

 free radius is fastened. Tlie free radius runs tlirough or along 

 the "floor" of this tube, is continually kept taut, and is clasped 

 at the upper end b}' the fore feet of the spider. An insect strug- 

 gling in the orb thus communicates the motion to the vigilant 

 creature in the den, who dashes along her covered gangway, gr, to 

 seize her prey. This gangway is at times imperfect, shortened, 

 or even wholly omitted, but is frequentl}' found as in tiie figure, 

 which was drawn from nature. In this bell-shaped den and con- 

 necting tube one may see a germ or modification, or suggestion, 



■ See Proceedings Acad. Nat. Sciences, Phila., p. 201, 187G. 




128 



PROCKEOTNGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1S7S. 



of the (loiiu'-shnped .sliect-wcl) of llic Liinjiihiuidie. See Kigs. G 

 and 7. 



Fiir. n. 



Snare of Ep. yiutxjsa. d. i>fii; g. Uiitigwiiy ; ni. Mass ol rlglit liues abose; f. Free ra<liuK : 



o. Orb ; c. Central. 



The second addition to the t^-pical orb web is the mass of rigiit 

 lines, m ??j, which snrrounds tiie den and tlie gangway', and incloses 

 the upper part of the orl). This is an exact retitelarian snare, as 

 ■will be readily recognized by an}' ordinary observer of the cob- 

 webs (for the most i)art of the Theridioidse), which form the bulk 

 of those infesting the angles of our kitchen, chamber, and out- 

 house walls. It is proba!)le that the purpose of this snare is to 

 suspend and keep in i)oise the dwelling i)lace, J, and to protect 

 the spider therein and on the gaugwa}' from the assault of invad- 

 ing wasps and other enemies of the order. At least I have not 

 observed it to be used b}' the adult spider for the capture of prey, 

 the orb being the chief dependence tor that. These lines appear 

 also to serve the young spiderlings fur a sort of play-ground and 

 foraging field for small insects. 




18Y8.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



129 



We have thus our first flistinct connecting link between the 

 spinning work of orb-weavers and line-vveavers, established at the 

 typical web of the latter as shown especially in the snares of the 

 farnil}' Theridioidse. 



The second and most notewortliy link, which indeed constitutes 

 in the web of E. baHiHca a complete inter-blending of tlie groups, 

 is at the snares of the Linyphioidse. The genus Linyphia is one of 

 the largest and most important genera of tl's line-weavers. In order 

 to show the steps by which the two groups ap|)roach each other 

 in habit, some explanation of the spinning work of the Linyphise 

 is necessary. Their wel)s differ from tlie Theridioidse substan- 

 tially in the addition of a sheet-like web to the web of right lines; 

 indeed the right lines take a subordinate or subsidiary' place, and 

 the sheet appears to be the real snare. There are three common 

 variations of form. First, a plain sheet of tliin silk, attached to 



the under part of leaves, or 

 ~' suspended between twigs, as 



in the web of Linyphia cos- 

 tata. Second, the web repre- 

 sented at Fig. 6, the snare of 

 Linyphia communiH. It is 

 composed of a mass of right 

 lines, r, to which is suspended 

 a bowl-like sheet, h^ beneatli 

 wl)ich again is a dish-shaped 

 sheet, f/, of more open spin- 

 ning work with the concavity- 

 upward as in the bowl. The 

 snare from wiiich the figure 

 was drawn (Aug. 15, 187*7, 

 Delaware Co., Pa.) had a total 

 height of from 12 to 14 inches; 

 the diameter of the bowl was 

 6 to 7 inches, its deptli H to 

 2 inches. The spider hung, 

 inverted, to the lower surface of the bowl, and was thus protected 

 from assault by the underlying dish, d. 



A third variation is that of the beautiful snare of Linyphia 

 marginata (L. marmorata of Hentz), which is in form preyisely 

 that of Fig. G, except that the bowl becomes a dome; that is, the 



ouare of Liiiyijliia CDiiimunii. b. Bowl ; d. 

 Underlying dish ; r. Snare of right lines. 




130 PROCEEniNOS OF TFIE ACAI>E.MV OF [1878. 



ssliet't, h, has the concavity downward instead of upward, and the 

 disi), </, undergoes the same change. In other words, the web of 

 L. marcjinala has the exact form of the IJasilica spider's web, ex- 

 cept that in the latter the dome (i'/, Fig. 1) is constructed of open, 

 regular meshes, formed hy tiie intersection of radiating ribs of 

 silk by notched coneentrics. In tlie former (/>. 7??ar^ina/a), this 

 bowl is woven of irregular!}' placed threads into a thin sheeted 

 web. The lower curtains, cc, and the upper retitclarian web, r?', 

 are substantially the same in both. Tiiat is to sa}', tlie t^'pical 

 ciiaracter of the orb-weaver's snare, viz., regular radiating lines 

 regularly crossed by spiral lines, api)ears in the web of Ej). Bas- 

 ilica without any other change Croiu a fixed generic Lin^phian 

 web. Fig. 7 represents the snare of L. marginata as drawn from 

 an example suspended within an opening in a pile of pine boards 

 at Bellwood, in the Allegheny Mountains. The snare commonly 

 has the jjyramidal form of Fig. 6 when hung among bushes, weeds, 

 and grasses, its most natural site. 



Fit;-. 7. 



Snare, of Liuyphia iiiai yiiiula. a a, r r. Ketitelariau suaie, brauched ; d. Dome; 

 c. Lower curtain. 



We may trace this interesting analogy from another point in 

 the group of orb-weavers, and find yet furtiier coincidences. It 

 will be noticed that the typical orb of the Orhitelarise^ as repre- 

 sented at y, Fig. 5, is vertical, while the corresponding section of 




IStS.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



131 



Fio-. 8. 



the web of the Basilica spider Fig. 1, (Zrf, ma^' be properly de- 

 scribed as horizontal. That is to sa}', if a horizontal orb attached 

 at the circumference in the usual way, were to be lifted up by a 

 thread fastened in the centre, it would assume the shape of tlie 

 dome in the web of the Basilica spider. In point of fact, this 

 effect might be produced from the characteristic snares of certain 

 species of the orb-weavers, wliich, as has already been stated, are 

 placed in a horizontal plane, at times more or less inclined by the 

 stress of circumstances. Our most common examples of these 

 species are the Stilt spider (Epeira graUator), and the Orchard 

 spider {Ep. horlorum). Fig. 8 represents the snare of the latter. 



The diameter of the orb 

 is quite habitually from 

 seven to nine inches. 

 The spider, one of the 

 most beautiful of the 

 order, hangs inverted at 

 the open central space. 

 Fig. 9, c, whose diame- 

 ter is about the length 

 of her b.od3'. Xext to 

 the open central is a 

 series of concen tries 

 which are most fre- 

 quentl_y ten in number. 

 They are closely drawn, the ten covering a space of one-half to 

 one-third of an inch. These concentrics have the same notched 

 arrangement as the spirals in the dome of the Basilica spider. (See 



?3, Fig. 9 compared with Fig. 1.) Xext 

 follows a free space, /"/, about one 

 inch in width, beyond which are spi- 

 rals, in number usually about thirty, 

 which cross the radii at right angles 

 ill the usual wa}'. The number of 

 radii generally about corresponds witii 

 that of the spirals, and at the circum- 

 ference the}' are from one-sixteenth to 

 one-thirtj'-second of an inch apart. Beneath the orb, reaching 

 downward sometimes ten inches, is a mass of retitelarian Lines, 

 Fig. 8, r ?■, which for the most part extend under but two sides of 



t^uare of Eptira hurti'i 



Fit:, n. 



8ectioii of horizontal snare of Or- 

 chard spider, c. Central ; n. Notched 

 spirals ; f. Free space. 




132 PUOCEEDINOS OF THE ACADEMY OF [187H. 



the orh. The s[iiiiiiiii<4 work of this mass is miieh more open than 

 tlie eorres]»()ii(lin<j; (jltjeets, e r, in the Liiiypliian wel)S al)Ovc de- 

 scribed, bill the reseiiil)h»Mce is marked. If one were to fasten the 

 thread to the central point of the orh in tiie orchard spider's web, 

 Fiir. 8, and gradually lift it until the orb should assume the donu' 

 (shape, he would have a snare very strongly resembling that of the 

 IJasilica spider. The difference would be in the absence of the 

 retitelarian web above and around the dome, an<l the presence of 

 the peculiar arrangement of the spirals just noted. 



We have thus traced the aiudogy l)etween the spinning work of 

 this species of the orb-weavers, and that of the line-weavers, in 

 these several particulars; fimt^ in the dome-shaped snare and 

 dwelling place ; second, in the mass of retitelarian lines placed 

 around and above the dome; third^ in the sheet-like curtain under- 

 neath the dome. Our E. basilica is seen to possess all the charac- 

 teristics of the families of the Rftilelariae^ viz., right lines and 

 sheet-web in exact detail, and dome-shaped wel) in outline. It 

 also is seen to })0ssess the cliief characteristic of tl)c Orbilelariae, 

 viz., the geometric web, or radiating lines regularly- crossed by 

 coneentrics ; to combine, moreover, in its dome structure the ver- 

 tical and horizontal forms of the geometries, and to have the 

 notched arrangement of the spirals peculiar to webs of some 

 species. Tlie Basilica spider ma}^ therefore be regarded as well 

 nigh, if not completely, bridging the space between the spinning 

 econom}' of these two great groups or sections of the Aranese. 



It ma}^ be added that there is a close resemblance in structure 

 between certain of the orb-weavers and line-weavers. This is so 

 striking in Koch's genera 3Iefa and Zilla, that they have been 

 classed with both sections. While, therefore, at one point we find 

 the sections closely approaching each other in structure, in another 

 we see them inter-blending in habit. A comparison between the 

 structures of the two creatures, L. margiiiata, and E. basilica, 

 whose spinning works have such marked likenesses, shows, how- 

 ever, no such close structural resemblance. 




1878.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 133 



ARANE^. 



OBBITELARI^. 



EPEIRINJG. 



]. Epeira basilica, n. sp. J . Fig. 2, p. 126. Length of body .284- inch. 



The cephalothorax \» oval, longer than broad ; color livid 3'el- 

 lovv, with irregular black bands around each margin, and a medial 

 band, black, extending to the eye-space ; the base is rounded, 

 the grooves and indentation distinct. Beneath the sternum is a 

 long oval, pointed toward the abdomen, wide black bands at the 

 margin, inclosing a scalloped, 3'ellow medial band, in which are 

 two parallel rows of blackish dots, of three each. The head is 

 slighll}' elevated beyond the thoi'acic juncture, but gradually de- 

 pressed toward the eye-space. The eyes are in two semicircular 

 rows, Fig. 3, the inner row concave toward the front, the outer 

 convex. The lateral eyes are in contact, the foremost being much 

 the smaller. The four medial eyes form a quite regular parallelo- 

 gram, somewhat longest longitudinally ; these and the two inner 

 lateral eyes are about equal. The e^^es of the hind row arc sepa- 

 rated from each other by about the same distance. The distance 

 between the anterior middle eyes is slightly less than between 

 the posterior middle. The distance from the margin of tlie cly- 

 peus to the anterior middle eyes is about equal to one-half the 

 distance between the anterior and posterior middle eyes. The 

 falces are conical, vertical, slightly inclined inward, of a livid 

 yellow color, touched with black at the tips. The maxilhe are 

 gibbous, hairy at the edges, blackish. Tlie lip is black, sub-' 

 triangular, almost semicircular, rounded at the base into a con- 

 cavity in the sternum. The palpi are yellow, with green annuli 

 at the joints, the radial and digital joints well armed with long 

 bristles, shorter, and more numerous at the tips which are armed 

 with a strong pectinated claw. Legs 1, 2, 4, 3, the dilTerence in 

 the length of the 1st, 2d, and 4th pairs being very small ; the 2d 

 pair, if anything, a little the longest ; the length of these is about 

 i^g^ of Sn inch; of the 3d pair about /jj of an inch. The femur has 

 numerous spinous bristles, arranged in spirals on the first two pairs, 

 longest beneath, and numbering six. On the tibia and metatarsus 

 are three spirals of long spines, each spiral having four spines. 

 Short comb-like bristles continue to the claws alons; the meta- 




1:]4 PROCEEDINOS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1878. 



trirsiis and tarsus. The claws arc of tlu' t3i)ical Kjie.ira nuinlter 

 and form. 



The color of the legs is green, with l)lackisli rings at the joints; 

 there arc two l)lackisli longitudinal liands or lines on the thigh, 

 which are somewhat wider and more distinct on the first two pairs 

 of legs. The abdomen is three-sixteenths of an inch in length, 

 subcylindrical, overhanging the cephalothorax slightly, and at the 

 apex, protruding above the spinning mammula?. It is formed and 

 marked as in the figure. The colors are as follows: above or on 

 the back waving lines, crimson, except toward tlie apex, where 

 they arc blackish, inclose a lobed band, white at the base, yellow- 

 ish at the middle lobes, and golden at the apex where it termi- 

 nates in a cruciform figure. On the sides the order of color is, a 

 crimson band ; white ; light green with dark green edges ; yel- 

 low. Beneath, the abdomen is blackish with yellow dots and 

 spots. 



Habitat : Texas, near Austin. 



2. Epeira globosa, Keyserling. Fig. 4, p. 127. 



Vorhandlungen des zoologiscli-bolanischenVcrcins, XV. I860, p. 820, 



Length of body, 9, one-fourth incli ; S, three-sixteentlis inch ; 

 width of abdomen of 9, one-eighth incli. 



Tlie ceplialotliorax is of a uniform livid yellow color, convex, 

 nearly- smooth, cut off squarely at the base, rounded on the sides, 

 liighl}^ compressed in front, the medial indentation deep. The 

 head is prominent, slightly elevated, hair}'. The eyes are in two 

 transverse rows, tlie anterior row decidedly convex toward the 

 front, the posterior nearl}- straight. The four intermediate eyes 

 form a parallelogram of whicli the anterior side is longest by 

 about one-half. The two anterior middle eyes are separated from 

 each other ])y a distance at least twice as great as that which 

 separates the two corresponding posterior eyes, and from these 

 latter by a distance about equal to that which divides themselves 

 from the margin of the face; they are black, as are also the lateral 

 ej'es, and are placed on tuljercles. The lateral eyes are in con- 

 tact, the hinder one the larger. The distance between the^ front 

 lateral QyQ and the anterior intermediate is about one-half greater 

 than the space between the two intermediate. The falces are 

 conical, vertical, toothed ; brownish, deepening into blackish to- 

 ward the fang. The lip is triangular, but rounded on the base ; 

 the sternum is heart-shaped, the maxillfe rounded on the sides 




1878.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 185 



and cut squarely at the tip. These last three parts are of a choc- 

 olate-brown color except a broad medial yellowish longitudinal 

 band in the sternum. The legs are in order of length 1, 2, 4, 3, 

 are armed with spines and bristles, and have three claws of the 

 usual epeiroid structure. In color they vary, according to age, 

 from olive green to livid yellow, with anuli, quite black on the 

 tibia and metatarsus. The palpi are colored like the legs, and 

 have a strong pectinated claw. The abdomen is hairy, reticulated, 

 overhangs the ceplialotliorax. It is of an olive green or livid, and 

 strongly marked on the back with a butterfly-like figure, white, 

 with black edgings ; a line of white spots extends along tlie sides 

 on either side, beneath a black lateral band above the venter. 

 Across the base of the abdomen in front extend two rows of black 

 dots, the lowest tlie sliorter. 



The % does not greatly differ from the 9, but is smaller. The 

 digital joint is a prominent bulb, covered with curved bristles, 

 convex externally, less convex within, and compressed toward 

 the tip. Just within the palm is a straight spine, pointing out- 

 ward. 



This spider makes a composite snare, as described and figured 

 above, Fig. 5, being a vertical orb, with a free radius, and sur- 

 rounded above with a snare of rigiit lines. 



Habitat: Eastern Pennsylvania and New Jersey. Probably the 

 entire Atlantic coast. 




13G PROCKKDINUS OK TlIK ACADKMY OF [1878. 



NOTE ON THE PROBABLE GEOGRAPHICAL DISTRIBUTION OF A SPIDER 

 BY THE TRADE WINDS. 



By Rev. Henry C, McCook. 



Wliilc cxfimining and clas.sif3iiig the collection of spiders in llie 

 Academy of Natural Sciences of Pliiladelphia, I discovered a miin- 

 ber of specimens of the large laterigrade Sarotes venaloriua^ Linn., 

 from various localities, as represented upon the accompanying 

 tal)les and chart (Fig. 1). Starting with tlie specimens in my 

 private collection, the line of distribution was traced from Santa 

 Cruz, Virgin Isles, to Cuba, to Florida, across Central America, 

 Yucatan and Mexico, across the Pacific Ocean by way of Sandwich 

 Islands, Japan, and Loo-Choo Islands, and thence across the 

 continents of Asia and Africa to Liberia. The line thus indicated 

 extends from the extreme eastern limit of Nortli America to the 

 extreme western coast of Africa, tiius girdling the globe, with the 

 exception of 54° of longitude. This excepted area expresses sub- 

 stantially the width of the Atlantic Ocean. 



It occurred to me when this fact became a|)parent, that this 

 line of distribution is within the belt of the Xorth Trade Winds; 

 and further, that there might be some connection between the two 

 facts and the fact that the laterigrade spiders, to which group 

 this animal belongs, are among those which are most addicted, in 

 the earlier stages of growth, to the interesting lial)it of migrating 

 from point to point. This is done b}' means of fine threads, emit- 

 ted from the spinnerets in sufBcient bulk to OA'crcome the .'Ji)ecific 

 gravity of the body. In other words, they belong to the balloon- 

 ing species.' The suggestion which thus arose led me to refer to 

 a competent authority as to the general course and limits of the 

 Xorth Trades. These are roughly indicated in tlie chart. Fig. 1, 

 by the two upper lines of arrows, marked (at the ends) A A and 

 B B. In the Atlantic Ocean the Xorth Trade Winds prevail be- 

 tween latitude 9° X. and 30*^ X.; in the Pacific between 9° X^. and 

 26" X. We now may turn to the chart in which the following 

 geographical points (shown by a dot and figures) are represented 

 by our spider. The specimens which have been examined, in the 



' For some observations of this habit, in full, see an article, by the writer, 

 in Proceedings of the Academy of Nat. Sci., Philadelphia, 1877, p. 308. 



K 




ISVS.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 137 



Academ}' and 1113- own collections, whose habitats are personally 

 known, are marked bj' an asterisk (*). The species is credited 

 to the other localities named on the authorities given therewith. 



A comparison of this table with the chart will at once show 

 that the dotted lines in the latter, which indicate the limits of the 

 geographical belt over which (so far as the specimens in hand 

 and described can determine) Sa^'otes venaforius is distributed, 

 correspond, with remarkable general exactitude, with the belt over 

 which the Xortli Trades blow. It is not, therefore, an improbable 

 conjecture that this distribution has been accomplished by means 

 of those winds and the hal)it of aerial flight above referred to. It 

 is, of course, supposable that commerce, following largely the same 

 belt, maj' have originated or aided this distribution. But it is 

 hardly necessary to resort to this hypothesis, when there is one 

 quite as probable, and wholl}' natural, and operative before the 

 general diffusion of inter-continental communication by ships. 

 This last-named condition the facts in the history- of the spider 

 seem to require. 



Some of these facts are, (1) the early discover^' of the species as 

 alreadj^ widely distributed; (2) its presence at so many different 

 insular points nearh' or altogether contemporaneous with their 

 first A'isits b}- commercial nations ; (3) the existence of the species 

 or its close allies among the fauna of the tropical interiors of con- 

 tinents far dih^tant from coast lines; (4) and finalh' the variations, 

 chief!}' in color, which have been observed, and which would seem 

 to require for their development a longer period than that which 

 has transpired since the commencement of commercial commu-. 

 nication with the localities in which the variations have been 

 wrought. While one ma}^ not conclude with absolute certainty 

 from these facts, the}' certainl}- warrant the theory that the Hunts- 

 man (venatoy^ius) spider has become cosmopolitan b}* the action 

 of nature independent of the aid of man. 



I was so impressed by the above chain of facts, and so confident 

 of the inference therefrom, that I ventured to predict that cor- 

 responding results would follow a comparison of specimens col- 

 lected from all other quarters; that is to say, the}' would be found 

 to lie within the belt of the JJorth or South Trade Winds. Tiie 

 only specimens at hand were those cited above, and from Zulu- 

 land and Surinam. But I was enabled to pursue the matter'fur- 

 10 




138 



PROCEEOINCiS OF THE ACAltEMY OF 



[1878. 




1878.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



139 



tlier b_y reference to the locations of various spec'mens given in 

 the descriptions of a number of natura'ists. I was greatly aided 

 in this by references kindl^^ sent me by Mr. Wm. Holden. Some 

 of the localities thus obtained have been tabulated above, and 

 others were found to correspond with the points represented by 

 specimens examined. So far then the conjecture was verified. 



Tlie two lower arrow lines in the chart, C C and D Z), give a 

 general view of the course and limits of the South Trades, which 

 prevail in the Atlantic Ocean between latitude 4° N. and 22° S., 

 and in the Pacific between latitude 4° N. and 23i° S.' It is of 

 course understood that these limits are not stationar}^, but follow 

 the sun, moving northward from January to June, and southward 

 from July to December; an oscillation which is also indicated in 

 the zone of distribution. They are, however, substantial!}- as 

 above given, and may be compared with the following table, 

 which shows the southern geographical distribution of this species 

 accordinijr to the authorities cited therein. 



Table of Distribution North of the Equator. 



' An error appears in the chart in the location of the southern limit of the 

 South Trades. The arrow line should not run directly westward from 

 Valparaiso, Chili (15), but from a point IQo above it, passing just south of 

 Friendly Isles (19). 




140 



PROCEEDINGS OF THK ACADKMY OF 



[187S. 



Table 0/ Disb'ibidion Sonlli of Ihe Equator. 



This table shows a distribution corresponding witli the limits 

 of the South Trades, with, in three oases, viz., Sidney (3), Suri- 

 nam (14), and Valparaiso (15), a slight oscillation in accord with 

 a fact above stated. Thus was entirely' fulfilled the expectation 

 with which I entered upon its preparation. It might with equal 

 confidence be predicted that Saroles venatoriua maj' be found dis- 

 tributed throughout the South Pacific Islands within the same 

 general belt; moreover, that it ma3M)e fonnd among the fauna 

 of the chain of small islands between the Sandwich Islands and 

 Asia, viz., Philadelphia, Drake and Massachusetts Islands, Anson 

 and ^Magellan Archipelagoes; also of the Cape Verde and St. 

 Ileh'na Islands, off the west coast of Africa. These have all 

 doubtless been stations in the line of migration, the latter across 

 the Atlantic Ocean as the Antilles have been ; the former across 

 the Pacific, as the Sandwich Islands, Loo-Choo Island, and Japan 

 have been, and as Mauritius and Madagascar Islands have been 

 across the Indian Ocean. Perhaps a more diligent search might 

 even now prove that this cosmopolitan species has alread}' been 

 collected at some of the above points.^ 



' It will be observed that the tables show that the missing points in the 

 South Pacific Islands have been actually bridged over. After the preseuta- 




1878.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 141 



There seems nothing improbable in the theory suggested to ex- 

 plain the series of facts here presented. There are not, indeed, 

 man}' recorded observations of the distances to which spiders are 

 carried out to sea in their aeronautic fliglits. But before a strong, 

 steady wind, or in cases of storms, it is possible that the greatest 

 distances which appear in the tables could be overcome. An ob- 

 servation of Mr. Darwin is the only one in point to which 1 can 

 refer.^ At the distance of sixty miles from land, while the Beagle 

 was sailing before a steady, light breeze, the rigging was covered 

 with vast numbers of small spiders with their webs. The little 

 spider, when first coming in contact with the rigging, was always 

 seated upon a single thread. While watching some that were 

 suspended by this filament, tlie slighest breath of air was found 

 to bear them out of sight. I have observed similar single-threaded 

 " balloons" sailing at a considerable height above the surface of 

 the earth, and know no reason why, with a favorable breeze, they 

 might not have been carried hundreds of miles. That the}* were 

 carried at least sixty miles, as Mr. Darwin's testimony shows, 

 and that before a light breeze, gives great probability to such a 

 conjecture. It is to be noted, moreover, that the spiders arrested 

 by the Beagle's rigging were evidently moving on when so stop- 

 ped, and some of them when arrested soon resumed their flight 

 across the main. 



The purpose in nattire of such a remarkaltle habit as these 

 well-known facts exhibit is, doubtless, to secure the distribution 

 of species throughout wide regions. The buoyant filament of 

 spider-gossamer serves the tiny arachnid the same good office 

 that is rendered the thistle-seed b}' the starry ra^'s of down sur- 

 rounding it. 



It ma}' not be without interest, and ma}', perhaps, have some 

 bearing upon the above theory of distribution, to remark that the 

 genus (or a closely allied genus) to which Sarotes venatoriua be- 



tion of this communication as above, and the preparation of the chart, 1 

 received from Mr. Wm. Holden, of Marietta, Ohio, a number of references 

 from Koch's descriptions of Austrahan spiders, to which I did not have 

 access, which enabled me to verify in this particular also the prediction 

 made. The tables and chart have been corrected in accordance with the 

 facts thus kindly supplied, but the above paragraphs have been permitted to 

 stand as they were originally written and communicated to the AcadeYiij'. 

 ' Voyage of the Beagle, vol. iii. p. 187. 




142 PROCEEDINGS OF THK ACADKMY OF [1>!78. 



lollies is probal)lv one of the oldent known forms of the spider 

 fauna. Thorell' phiccs the now existiiiij <^{i\nxH lieleropoda (Ocy- 

 pete, Kocli, Ox;/})<'(<', Menge), from which Saroles has been di- 

 vided, amf)ng those whicli are represented in the amljer spiders. 

 Tliis amber is a fossil vegetable resin, which is met witli in various 

 brown-coal strata, and is copiously thrown by the waves on llie 

 southern coasts of the IJaltic, esjjocially the coast of Prussia and 

 the Kurische Ilaaff. Tliis anil)er belongs to the tertiary (" oligo- 

 cene") period, and in it numerous spiders are found, generally 

 well preserved. How far any supposed contiguity or closer ap- 

 proach of continents now separated might have facilitated or oc- 

 casioned the world-round distril)ution of (Mir Huntsman spider, is 

 a point upon which geologists may more properly express an 

 opinion. 



The question, what variation of species, if any, occurs in the 

 course of this distribution, is of great interest. The specimens 

 examined by rae show no variations which may not lie accounted 

 for by diflerences in age, or which may not come within the range 

 of those ordinary natural differences which all animals more or 

 less exhibit. Most of the s))ecimens, however, had been so long 

 in alcohol as to obliterate any differences in color which might 

 have existed. The normal color is a uniform tawny j'ellow, varied 

 upon the ce[)halothorax by a circular patch of blackish or black- 

 ish-brown color covering nearly two-thirds of the space; and, 

 further, by a white or whitish marginal band quite or nearly gir- 

 dling the same. In some of the specimens this circular patch 

 seems to have been more or less of a brownish color. The emi- 

 nent naturalist Gerstaecker- speaks of this species as distributed 

 over a large part of Africa, Asia, and South America. Specimens 

 were examined by him from Dafeta, Monjbas, and Zanzibar. In 

 these there was some variation in tiie coloration of the maxillary 

 palpi : on the one hand, from a light rust-color to brownish-red 

 and i)itcii-brown ; on the other hand, to a more or less sharp divi- 

 sion or limitation of the light yellow color of the anterior and 

 posterior borders of the cephalothorax. There was also a brown- 

 ing of tlie region about the eyes. Gerstaecker ver\' justly' observes 

 that this indicates that on this sort of differences not as many 



' European Spiders, p. 231, Nov. Ada. Reg. Soc. Sci. Upsal. 1870. I 

 have not the work of Koch and Berendt, to which Thorell refers. 

 2 Von der Decken's Travels in East Africa, III. ii. p. 482. 




1878.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



143 



specific characters can be established as upon the more stable 

 differences in the relative size of the ej'es and legs. 



A female, closely resembling the male which is here figured, 

 was sent to me from Vera Cruz (Virgin Isles) by Mr. F. G. 

 Sherman. It was taken in or near the house by one of the colored 

 servants, who (says Mr. S.) handle the spiders readily and with 

 impunit3\ The cocoon^ Fig. 2, C, was inclosed in the box. It is 

 of a pink color; is drawn about natural size, being over three- 

 fourths of an inch in diameter. Cocoons of the same description 

 were sent me by Mr. Jno. F. Folsom from Cul)a, together with a 

 large number of young spiderlings. These had evidently escaped 

 from the cocoon, after immersion in the spirits. They are three- 

 thirty seconds of an inch long; whitish color, with reddish-brown 

 annuli or regular markings upon the legs, and two rows of dots 

 of the same color on each side of the medial line of the abdomen. 



Fig. 2. 



Saro'es venat 'Hux (natural size). 



C. Cocoou. E. Eyes, 

 of S. truncus. 



C.TIi. Outline of cephalotliorax 



The male, Fig. 2, was received from Archibald Mclntyre, Esq., 

 who brought it from Florida in the winter of 1874-75. It was 

 observed for the space of five or six weeks hanging listlessly to 

 the wall in the angle of the ceiling. It then moulted, moved, and 

 was captured. The length of bod^^ is about three-quarters pf an 

 inch ; the abdomen being somewhat shrivelled, its length is some- 




144 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1878. 



what uncertain. One of the 4th pair of legs is shorter, imperfect, 

 showing that tlie original leg had been lost in combat or b}' some 

 accident, and that a new leg had thus far been restored by nature. 

 The fact tliat lioth these specimens — the only ones in hand of 

 whose hal)its I have any account — were found in the house would 

 seem to indicate a fondness for sucii domicile, that might make 

 more easy the distril)ution of this species l)y means of sJiips. 

 Moreover, Latreille records,' as a fact communicated to him, that 

 in cerlain parts of tiie troi)ical regions of tlie New World, this 

 animal, instead of being looked upon witii aversion, as are the 

 most of its order, is regarded with positive pleasure by proprietors 

 of homes, on account of the service rendered in the destruction of 

 cockroaches and other noxious insects. For this purpose the 

 spider is not only preserved, but is introduced witiiin tlie house. 

 Mr. Holden has information of the same fact in connection with 

 this or an allied species in the Sandwich Islands. It may be 

 said that the general habit of the entire group of laterigrades is, 

 however, quite different from that of house-spiders. They chiefly 

 inhabit trees and shrubbery, upon the leaves or bark of which they 

 lie in wait and seize their prey as from ambush. The spider is 

 probably rare, at least not abundant, in the United States. It has 

 frequentl}^ been described in European journals ; but, as it has a 

 place among our spider fauna, a description is herewith appended, 

 together with a synou^micon of the most important references. 



ARAXE^. 



LATERIGRAD^. 

 THOMISOID^. 



PHILODROMINJE. 

 Sarotes venatorius (Linn.), 17C7. 



1767. Aranea venatoria, Linn., Syst. Nat. (12 ed.) I. ii. p. 1035, No. 33. 

 1789. Aranea venatoria, Linn., Syst. Nat. (13 ed.) I. p. 2960, No. 33. 

 1793. Aranea regia, Fabr., Entom. Syst. II. p. 408, No. 4. 

 1801. Ileteropoda venatoria, Latr., Nouv. Diet. d'll. N. (1st ed.) XXIV. 



p. 135. 

 180"). Thomims leucosiun, Walck., Tab!, d. Ar. p. 36, No. 28, pi. 4, fig. 33. 



' Nouv. Dictioiinaire d'Hist. Nat., ed. 1819, torn. 34, p. 33, art. Thomue. 




1878.]. NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 145 



1806. Thomims veiiatoriuit, Latr., Gen. Crust, et Ins. I. p. 114. 

 1806. Thomisus leucosius, Latr., Gen. Crust, et Ins. I. p. 113. 

 1810. Aranea regia, Epit. Entom. p. 111. 



1829. Thomisus leucosius, Latr., Cuvier, Regne Anim. IV. p. 2o6. 

 1833. Sarotes regius, Sund., Conspect. Araclm. p. 28. 



1836. Thomisus leucosius, Duges, Regne Anim. Arachn. p. 60. 



1837. Olios leucosius, Walck., H. N. d. Ins Apt. I. p. 566, No. 5. 

 1842. " Lucas, H. N. Cr. Ar. et Myr. p. 395, No. 3. 

 1845. Ocypete draco, C. Koch, Die Arachn. XII. p. 44, f. 983. 



1850. " C. Koch, Uebersicht, V. p. 37. 



1851. Olios leucojus ^leucosius), Bocli, Verh. z-b. Ges. Wien, XI. p. 389. 

 1803 " " Vinson, Ar. Reun. Maur. et Mad. p. 98, 



No. 3, pi. ii. f. 8. 

 1864. " " Simon, H. N. d. Araign. p. 410. 



1866. " " Blkw., Ann. Mag. Nat. Hist. 3d ser. 



XVIII. p. 457. 

 1870. Heteropoda venatoria, Thor., On Europ. Spid. p. 178. 

 1873. Olios regius, Gerst., in C. von der Deckeu, Reisen in Ost. Afr. III. ii. 



p. 482. 

 1875. Sarotes regius, Koch, Die Ar. Austr. pp. 660, 675, 854, Tab. 56, f. 1,2. 



Length of bodj^, five-eighths inch. Spread of legs, five inches. 



Cephalothorax slightly convex, large, broad, broadest through 

 the middle part, rounded on the sides, slightly truncated at the 

 base, verj' little compressed in front. The caput is but little 

 elevated ; is truncated at the face. The color of the spider is a 

 uniform tawny, except upon the cephalothorax, where a broad, 

 brownish, and black band flows down about two-thirds the dis- 

 tance from the medial line to the marg-in. The margin of the 

 cephalothorax is again of a tawny color, the band running around 

 in front, narrowing toward the face, which it crosses just above 

 the articulation of the felces, the color being whitish on the face. 

 The head and eye-space ai'e touched with black, or are tawny. 

 At the indentation the blackish band divides by a tawnj- line 

 which follows the cephalic juncture around to the face. The 

 eyes, Fig. 2, E^ are arranged in two rows of four each, the front 

 row l)eing the sliortest. The two central front eyes are the 

 smallest of all, and are placed upon an elevation narrowing 

 towards the front. These are nearer to each other tlian are the 

 two posterior middle eyes, from which they are separated b}- a 

 space somewhat larger than that which separates tiie front eyes 

 and the margin of the face. The lateral front eyes are the largest 

 of all. Viewed from the front they are nearly in a straight line 




140 PHOCEEPINns OF THK ACADEMY OP .[1«78. 



(subrectii) ; )»iil viewed from nhove they are sliiilitly curved back- 

 ward. The hack row of eyes is al)ont eqiiallv (i)erha|)S even less) 

 t'luvt'd liackuaiil. 'I'hey are more nearly e<iual in size, l)nt the 

 hiteial eyes ai'e hirger than tiie middle ones. A whitisli line be- 

 low the eyes joins the face with the falces, which articidate nearly 

 upon a |il:ine with tiie face. They are conical, covered with bris- 

 tles, raliier lilunt at the end, but cut away upward and toward 

 each other. They have about six teeth. Lip is oval, cut squarely 

 at the tip. Maxilliie are gibbous, lean toward the lip slightly, are 

 rounded at the end, scalloped at the middle of the outoi- edge, 

 tipped with thick tooth-like hairs. Sternum cordate, tawny color, 

 hairy. Palpus of female (Santa Cruz) long; the joints armed 

 with about five strong, short spines each, the terminal joint end- 

 ing with a thick brush of bristle-like hairs, imbedded within which 

 is a five-toothed claw. The pa)i)us of the male has on the outside 

 of the digital joint a black, double-toothed, or notched, horn-like 

 projection. In the i)alm of the terminal bulb is a black cushion, 

 from or below the end of which projects a pinkish, spine-like 

 organ. On the end of the radial joint without is a black, corne- 

 ous projection, curved at the extremit3'. 



Feet, order of length, 2. 4.1. .3, the difference between 4.1. not 

 ver}' marked. 



On the upper part of the thigh (femur) are arranged eight black 

 spines, six in pairs along the up()erside; two along the ver^' top, 

 one of these two being in a row with the 2d pair, the other stand- 

 ing alone near the joint of the patella. Tliis last is shorter by 

 about one-half, and bent more than the others. A pair of short 

 and slight spines on the sides of the patella. On the tibia are 

 nine spines, eight arranged in pairs below or on tlie under sides, 

 the last two near the joint of metatarsus being shorter and bent; 

 the remaining spine is between the 1st and 2d pairs, and above. 

 There are five spines on the metatarsus, three shooting out well 

 together near the joint of the tibia. The under sides of the tarsus 

 and metatarsus are covered with a thick scoi)ula. The claws are 

 two — long, strong, curved toward the end, toothed at the base, 

 apparently the inner claw having more teeth, A pad or brush 

 completely underlies the claws. Abdomen much shrivelled, but 

 evidentlv oval, tawn}-, hairj-, and niarked as nearlj- as may be as 

 in the figure. 



Habitat. Florida. 




1878.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 147 



Sarotes truncus, n. up. ? 



In the collection referred to in the above paper was found one 

 specimen which differs so widely- from other individuals in the 

 shape of the cephalothorax that it is probably entitled to be clas- 

 sified as a new species. The cephalothorax, Fig. 2, C. Th^ is trun- 

 cated at the base, which is the widest part, being three-eighths of 

 an inch wide, which is also the length of the medial line of the 

 cephalothorax. The sternum is an almost regular decagon. The 

 ej'es and other parts correspond generally with those of S. vena- 

 tortus as described. The view of the eyes in the figure is from 

 above. 



Female. Japan. 




148 niOCKKDlNGS OF THK ACADKMY OF [1878. 



Al'UlL 0. 



Mr. Geoiu!K AV. 1'kvon, .Jr., in tlio cliair. 



Twenty-two i)C'isons present. 



The following papers were presented for publication : — 

 "Transition forms in Crinoids, and description of live new 

 species," by Charles "Wachsnuith and Frank Springer. 

 " On a new Species of Sponge," by Alpheus Ilj-att. 



Vegetafive ReYjetUiori of Cerebral Fi.ssti7-e.s Dr. A. J. Parker 



remarked that in studying the cerebral fissures, as found in the 

 brains of different animals, we find them divided into several 

 groups. These are called primary, secondarj-, tertiary, etc., ac- 

 cording to their constancy and degree of iuiportance. The primary 

 fissures comprise tiiose iiuidamental, deep, and important clefts, 

 which appear earliest in the development of the embrj'o, and are 

 to be found represented in all brnins where marked fissuration 

 exists. They correspond in position and bear definite relations 

 with deep and important structures. The secondary fissures come 

 next in importance. They appear in the embryo after the primary, 

 and comprise those fissures which give the general character of 

 fissuration to groups of brains. Tertiary fissures, etc., are the 

 smaller, less important ones which branch off from the primary' 

 and secondary, or mark more or less deepl}' the various sei)arate 

 convolutions formed by the other fissures. These fissures give 

 the sjiecial character to each brain, and enable us to point it out 

 as belonging to this or that genus or species of animals. The 

 constanc3' in appearance and position of these fissures follows the 

 same order as given above; that is, the primary are the most con- 

 stant in appearance and position, the secondary next, whilst the 

 tertiarv, etc., are the most variable; many of the minor branches 

 of this latter group being present or absent, even in the same 

 species of animal. With reference to the cause, of development of 

 these fissures three views are held. 



According to one view, which is the one that has had most 

 currency until within recent years, and which is still supported 

 b}' many, such as Ecker, etc., the fissures of the cerebral cortex 

 are due to mechanical causes entirely-, being produced l)y the cra- 

 nial contents developing more rapidly thnn the cavity of the skull, 

 the brain folding itself in order to accommodate itself in bulk to 

 the space allowed l)y its rigid bou}' environment. In this case, 

 therelbre, the fissures represent merely lines of least resistance to 

 the compressing forces, and have no structural significance. Ac- 

 cording to the second view, fissures represent lines of letarded 




1878.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 149 



growth ; that is, along these lines of tlie cerebral cortex, growth 

 takes place less rapidly than in the surrounding portion, and tliese 

 lines are, therefore, graduall}' converted into deep grooves or fis- 

 sures. The third view is a compound of the other two. According 

 to this, the principal fissures are produced by retarded growth, 

 whilst many of the undulations and minor furrows are produced 

 by compression. 



Whichever view we adopt, the question still presents itself, are 

 we to regard each fissure as produced by a distinct and separate 

 process of formation, or are some of them only repetitions of fis- 

 sures previously formed? In studying the cerebral fissures as 

 l)resented in the brains of different animals, especially amongst 

 the Carnivora and Ungulata, it had appeared to him that many 

 of the fissures should be regarded in the latter light, that is, as 

 vegetative repetitions. ATiewed in this way, many difliculties with 

 regard to the identification of homologous fissures in different 

 brains disappear. According to the meciianical theory, a deep 

 and distinct fissure having l)cen formed, tliere would be a tendency 

 to produce otlier fissures following the same general direction, 

 having the same general apj^earance, and depending for their 

 formation on the one originally laid down. According to the view 

 that fissures are the result of retarded cerebral growth, we may 

 expect to find, esi)ecially in lower forms of brains in which much 

 fissuration exists, vegetative repetitions of the same lines of re- 

 tarded growth. In either case, the fissures which appear after 

 tlie O) iginal fissure, and which follow its general contour, should 

 be considered as belonging to one group with that fissure, and to 

 be of secondary importance in relation to it. Hence, in many 

 cases, instead of seeking for fissures separately homologous to 

 each other, we will be obliged to consider certain groups to be 

 homologous to certain other groups, the number of separate fis- 

 sures of which may be more or less numerous. Owen, in founding 

 his nomenclature of the cerebral fissures in the Carnivora and 

 Ungulata, gave a distinct and separate name to each fissure, and 

 he endeavored to point out the homologue of each of these in 

 different brains. If, howcA-er, we are to regard, as he should 

 presentl}' attempt to show, that at least some of these fissures are 

 entirely secondary and to be considered as merely vegetative repe- 

 titions, then we must not seek, nor is it possible to find, homo- 

 logues for each fissure, even in closel}' related brains. 



Dr. Parker then proceeded to point out some of the fissures in 

 the brain of the Carnivora and Ungulata, which appeared to him 

 to be of the above nature. 



If we take the brain of a carnivorous animal, as the domestic 

 cat for instance, and examine tlie upper mesial surface of one of 

 the hemispheres, we will find three fissures lying neaily parallel to 

 each other, one above the other and proceeding postero-anterjorly. 

 The upper two of these extend from the posterior extremity of the 




150 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1878. 



heniisplioiT. wliilst the lower one hejiins a little interior to the 

 middle, ll is ilie aiiterioi' extremity of tiiis fissure wliirli extends 

 in a transvc'ise direction on to the hiteral suifaee of the hemi- 

 sphere, and is known nnder the name of the crucial fissure. The 

 whole fissure is called fi'ontal hy Owen. The middle (issure he 

 terms the super-callosal, and the upper, the marginal fissure. This 

 represents the state of things very nearly as found in the hrains 

 of all of tlic Carnivora. In some cases, however, he had foun<l 

 only two fissures instead of three, the frontal beinf; continuous 

 with the super-callosal; there being, however, a decided indication 

 of a tendency towards separation at the anterior portion of this 

 fissure. Thus in two specimens of Coali nasica, the frontal fissure 

 was a branch of the super-callosal, a notch, however, indicating 

 where tlie proper super-callosal would end. In two specimens of 

 the brain of the lion, the frontal fissure was barely separated from 

 the super-callosal, and in examining other brains of Carnivora 

 intermediate stages were met with, from the condition as in Coafi 

 nasica where the two fissures were continuous to the state as 

 found in the cat and ocelot where tlio\' are widely separated. It 

 would appear, therefore, that the frontal (issure is of the nature 

 of a separated anterior extremity of the super-callosal; and as 

 such he had regarded it, considering it as a repetition of that 

 fissure. The marginal fissure lies directly above the supcr-callosal, 

 is similar in appearance and follows the same direction, l)ut is not 

 as deep or well marked, and appears in the embryo after it. This 

 fissure should also, he tliouglit, be considered in a secondary light 

 to the super-callosal and to be a repetition of it. In some of the 

 carnivora, as in the specimens of the brain of the lion, a fourth 

 fissure makes its appearance in this region ; lying between the 

 super-callosal and marginal fissures, and similar in appearance 

 and relations to them. He had, therefore, considered all of these 

 fissures as belonging to one group, of which the super-callosal is 

 the t_ype, and the remaining fissures more or less numerous as 

 vegetative repetitions of this fundamental and typical furrow. In 

 a paper on the morphology of tlie cerebral convolutions, not yet 

 published, he had called this fissure the mesial occipito-frontal, 

 from its arising in the occipital region and proceeding forwards 

 into the frontal lobe ; whilst the remaining furrows he proposed 

 to call the first, second, third, etc., repetitions of this fissure, 

 designating the tjpical fissure by the letters j/jo/, and its repeti- 

 tions by mof'^ mof'\ mof'"^ etc., respectivel^y. The bearing of 

 this will be rendered more evident, if we now compare these 

 fissures as found in the Carnivora with the same as found in the 

 Ungulata. In the Ungulata a fissure is found on the mesial surface 

 of the hemisphere which is the horaologue of the mesial occipito- 

 frontal of the Carnivora. It takes its origin in the posterior or 

 oeci|)ital region and proceeds forwards into the frontal lobe. 

 Besides this, there are one or two other fissures present lying 




1878.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 151 



parallel with it which ma}' be coiisiflered as repetitions of it. In 

 these brains, however, the marginal fissure, which in tlie Carnivora 

 lies on the mesial surface, appears on the lateral surface of tlie 

 brain, together with a number of fissures more or less numerous, 

 similar to it, and which are not represented in the brain of tlie 

 Carnivora. It is this collection of fissures that gives to this region 

 of the brain the complex character, and extensive fissu ration 

 which it presents. The brain of the Peccary, Dicotyles torqtialiis, 

 seems to occupj' a position in reference to these fissures, midway 

 between the brain of the Carnivora and the brains of the other Un- 

 gulata. In tlie brain of this animal, we find on the mesial surface 

 a distinct and well marked mesial occipito-frontal fissure, extend- 

 ing from the occipital region forwards and encircling the corjuis 

 callosum just as the fissura calloso-marginalis does in man, of 

 which it is the homologue. A short distance posterior to its cen- 

 tral jioint, a small fissure forks off from it, still remaining con- 

 tinuous with it. No other fissures are found on the mesial surface 

 proper, but at the edge of the hemisphere, where the lateral and 

 mesial surfaces join, a distinct and well marked fissure is found 

 Avhich follows the direction of the mesial occipito-frontal fissure 

 and corresponds to the marginal fissure of tlie Carnivora; which 

 he had regarded as a repetition of the mesial fissure, and desig- 

 nated as mo/'. On the lateral surface in this brain there are no 

 other fissures which can be considered as repetitions, but as we 

 advance through a series of ungulate brains, this tendency to 

 repetition in this region becomes exceedingly marked, and so 

 numerous that they cover a considerable portion of the lateral 

 surface of the bi'ain. In Dzco/^/e.s, as we have seen, there is onh' a 

 single fissure present, but these gradually increase in number until 

 in some brains as many as five can be distinguished. In the 

 Caribou and Sheep, two may be seen. In the Giiafle, Malay 

 Tapir, and Llama, etc., three may be distinguished, and in the 

 Horse he had counted as many as five. It is to this repetition of 

 the same fissure that the exceedingl}- convoluted ai)pearance of 

 this portion of the ungulate brain is due, and not to the production 

 of fissures which are to be considered as of the same importance 

 as the other fissures of the hemispheres. Thus, although the 

 brains of the Ungulata nre much more convoluted than the brains 

 of any of the Primates, except man and a lew of the higher a|)es, 

 still they must be regarded as of a lower type, since this more 

 highly convoluted aspect is produced, not by a greater numlier of 

 distinctive fissures, but to a great extent by simple vegetative 

 repetition of fissures, which are found represented in these primate 

 brains by a single furrow. Thus, the five fissures as fouiiil in the 

 Horse, taken together are equivalent to the three as found in the 

 Tapir, Giraffe, Llama, etc., to the two in the Sheep and Caribou, 

 to the single fissure as found in Dicotylei^; and finally they are all 

 to be considered as vegetative repetitions of the mesial occipito- 




152 rUOC'EEPINGS OF TDK ACADEMY OF [1878. 



IVoiital llssurc. In tlie Prininlcs, lliis fissure is represented l»y the 

 lissnre calloso-ni:ir<;iiialis, and here the satne tendency is also 

 siiown, as we ascend from tlie lower <ii(>ui)s towards Man, to split 

 up into two or more similar (issnres. Among the Lcniinid;^, as 

 Fi-opi/fiecui^^ Inch-is, A calls, elc; in the I'lahjrrhini, i\H JIapale, 

 Chri/solhrix, Aleles, Cfbus, etc ; and in the (Jtjnomorjiha, as 

 Maracus, Gynocephahis, etc. ; this fissure is represented hy a single 

 continuous furrow. In the Anihropomorpha, as the Chiujpanzc^e 

 and Orang, this fissure becomes much broken in its character; 

 and in Man it consists of several distinct parts, which are similar 

 in appearance and relations to each other. He had noticed in 

 some brains as many as five or six of these separate and distinct 

 fissures following each other regidarly along the course of the 

 calloso-marginal fissure. They tend in appeaiance towards the 

 shape of an elongated figure four. He had observed that this 

 rei)etition is esj)eciaily regular, and -well marked in the lu-ain of 

 the negro. The calloso-maiginal fissure is described as termina- 

 ting posteriorly a short distance behind the central fissure, appear- 

 ing as a slight notch on the lateral surface of the hemisphere. 

 Directl}' back of this, a small fissure is present, situated on the 

 praecuneal lobule, which has been regarded as a distinct and 

 unimportant fissure merely marking this lobule. From a studj' 

 of a number of brains, he had been led to consider this as the 

 posterior portion of the calloso-marginal fissure detached from it, 

 just as the anterior portion splits up into several parts. In the 

 Orang and Chimpanzee this also appears to be detached, but in 

 the lower lorms the calloso-marginal fissure extends back with- 

 out any break in its continuity. In the human embiyo the 

 calloso-marginal at the sixth month is represented by a continuous 

 fissure, and it is only in the latter stages of development that it 

 breaks \\\) into separate parts. The fissures of the occipital lobe 

 in those Primates in which it is fissured, appear also to be repe- 

 titions of pre-existing fissures. In the lower forms of the Simia- 

 dse, the occipital lobe appears perfectly smooth and without any 

 fissuration whatevei*. It is separated from the rest of the hemi- 

 sphere by two well marked fissures. These arch, the one above ' 

 and the other below the posterior extremity of the calcarine fissure 

 on the mesial surface, and extending over on to the lateral surface 

 run towards each other, and are separated only by a small narrow 

 convolution, the troisieme j)li de passage exlerne of Gratiolet, 

 The two fissures together form an arch, which cuts oflT, on the 

 posterior lateral surface of the hemisphere, a conical-shaped mass, 

 the a[)ex of which is directed forwards and downwards. These 

 two fissures taken together he would term the primary occipital 

 arch, and it constitutes the anterior boundar}^ of the occipital lobe. 

 This lobe is entirely smooth in many of the lower forms of the 

 Simiadae. Thus, in Ilacacus cynomolgxis no fissures are present, 

 but, as we ascend, this lobe becomes gradually more and more 




18*78.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 153 



fissured. These fissures, when the^' appear, follow the direction 

 of* the primary occipital arch, so that a secondary arch appears 

 within the first. This arch, in the same manner as the primary, 

 extends around the upper and lower branches of the posterior 

 extremity of the calcarine fissure. It might be well seen in many 

 of the photographs to which he directed attention, especially in 

 31acacusnemest7-ini(s and in Gynoceph.alus pors. Sometimes this 

 secondary arch is interrupted at one or two places by small con- 

 volutions, just as the primary arcli is by the various plis de 

 passage, but the separate portions still preserve the same relations 

 as before. In the higher Apes these arches become more undulated. 

 This is also the case in Ateles. , In Man the}'^ become very much 

 contorted and broken up, and it becomes difficult to recognize the 

 relations between these detached portions and the parts of the 

 primary arch which also become much separated. In the negro, 

 these fissures remain more nearly in the state in which they are 

 found in the higher Simians, and the correspondence between tiie 

 two arches can be more clearly distinguished. The fissures of the 

 occipital lobe should not, it appeared to him, be considered as 

 of the same significance as the fissures of the other lobes, or as 

 the fissures of the primary arch, but of secondary importance, and 

 he would regard them as repetitions of the two branches of this 

 arch. 



In the temporal lobe Ecker has described a fourth temporal 

 fissure in addition to the three usually recognized. This fissure 

 is, however, as he admits, but slightly developed and often absent. 

 He would regard this fissui'e in the same light as the fissure of the 

 occipital lobe, viz., as a repetition of one of the temporal fissures. 

 These constitute the most important fissures wiiich he had been 

 led to consider as of secondary significance, since they merely 

 follow lines of development already laid down by a preceding 

 furrow, and do not partake of the natuce of independent fissures 

 to the same extent as many others, althougii they may appear by 

 their length and depth to be of equal morphological significance. 



The following papers were ordered to be printed : — 



11 




154 PROCEEDINGS OF TME ACADEMY OF [1878. 



STIBIANITE, A NEW MINERAL. 

 BY E. (iOLDSMITII. 



In tlie Academy's collection I noticed a mineral without a name, 

 but having on its label the words " Victoria, Australia." On in- 

 quirky, I received the information from the Curator in charge that 

 said specimen had been presented by the Australian Centennial 

 Commission. 



The mineral is massive, having the general aspect of a piece of 

 rough feldspar. It is somewhat porous, and occasionally a shining 

 face of a crystal is observed in the mass. The color is reddish- 

 yellow, but not ver}^ uniform. In powder, it is pale yellow ; its 

 lustre is dull. 



Hardness = 5. Specific gravity = 3.6686. 



Blowpipe reactions: On coal, with carb. of soda, it affords 

 antimony, ar white incrustation, and on the removal of the flame, 

 the peculiar ascending cloud. 



Phosphorsalt dissolves it without an}' coloration in the oxi- 

 dizing and reducing flame. 



Heated in a tube closed at one end it affords some water. 

 Hydrochloric acid, aqua rcgia, caustic potassa, and sulphide of 

 ammonium dissolve the antimony compound, but not the gangue. 

 The solution of the substance in caustic potassa indicated, on the 

 addition of a solution of nitrate of silver, the absence of anti- 

 monious acid. A solution of sulphate of copper shows, on the 

 other hand, the presence of antimonic acid. The solution formed 

 in hydi-ochloric acid afforded, on tlie addition of iodide of potas- 

 sium, a strong liberation of iodine. All these reactions are proofs 

 that the antimonj' is in its highest state of oxidation ; that is to 

 say, the mineral contains only antimonic acid = SbO\ 



Quantitative analysis, 0.G227 grm. lost on heating the sub- 

 stance below a red heat, 0.0287 gram. = 4.60 per cent, of water. 



Mr, W. H. Dougherty determined the water as 4.46 per cent. 



He also ascertained the amount of gangue to be 13.55 " " 

 and the antimonic acid, from SbO*, to be 81.21 " " 



99.22 



\^ 




1878.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 155 



It is evident from these ascertained values that the purity of 

 the mineral is not more than 85.67 per cent., and on recomputing 

 this value to hundred, will give for 



SbO^ = 94.79 per cent, contains = 23.40. 

 HO = 5.21 " " " = 4.62. 



The oxygen ratios are: 4. G2 : 23.40 = 1 : 5.06, from which the 

 formula SbO^HO is derived. 



It is generally believed, and probabl\^ with good reason, that 

 those oxides of antimony were derived from stibuite, which may 

 also be the case in this instance, as a small patch of stibuite was 

 noticed on the specimen examined. 




156 PROCEEDINGS OF TIIK ACADKMV OF [lS78. 



STAFFELLITE, FROM PIKE'S PEAK, COL. 

 BV E. (itiLDSMlTII. 



On a specimen of the well-known Amazon stone from Tike's 

 Teak, an incrustation from 4 to G millimetres thick was shown 

 for inspection, by Mr. Foot, to the members of the Mineralogical 

 Section. It was given to me for determination, and the results 

 are as follows : 



On the npper surface it appears rather flatly mammillary massive, 

 chalcedony or agate-like. If broken with the hammer, the fresh 

 fracture has a silky lustre, due to a microcrystalline structure, 

 ■which is clearly seen if a thin splinter of it is placed beneath the 

 microscope, having mounted an objective of 1| inches. The 

 fracture, which is somewhat splintery, but smooth, has a pale 

 o-ray color; on the upper surface, where the mineral had been ex- 

 posed, the color appears leek-green, and is rough to the touch. 



Hardness = 3.5 SpeciOc gravity = 2.959. 



Blowpipe reactions: in the forceps, it swells up at first, then 

 decrepitates; the color of the flame is orange-yellow. 



Hydrochloric acid dissolves it with slight effervescence of 

 carbonic acid gas to a perfectly clear solution. In the solution 

 was found lime and phosphoric acid, and also some soda. 



The quantitative analysis was performed on 0.500 gram, of sub- 

 stance. I obtained 0.6405 gram, of sulphate of lime, anhydrous 

 = 52.74 per cent, of lime. Also 0.317 gram, of pyro-phosphate 

 of magnesia = 40.55 per cent, of phosphoric acid ; finally, 0.0335 

 gram, of anhydrous sulphate of soda = 2.92 per cent, of caustic 

 soda. A sample of the powdered mineral was heated from 230° 

 to 240° F. without losing any weight. The amount of carbonic 

 acid was calculated to saturate the surplus lime and also the soda. 



The surplus lime = 4.77 per cent., requires 3. 74 per cent. c. 

 To the soda = 2.92 " " '' 2.07 " " C. 



From these considerations it would seem probable that the com- 

 position of the Staffellite from Pike's Peak, like the one described 

 b^' Stein in German}', do not differ much from each other. 




1878.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 15T 



Putting the analj'tical results together, it reads: 



3 Ca, ^=88.52 per cent. Mol. =0.571 or 6. 

 Ca, C= 8.51 " " " =0.170 or 2. 

 Na, C= 4.99 " " " =0.094 or 1. 



From the ratios, the following formula may be deducted: 



[6 ( 3Ca, P), 2 (CaC), (NaC)] = 1083. 

 This requires 3 Ca, P = 85.87 per cent. 

 Ca, C= 9.23 " " 

 Na, C= 4.89 " " 




15S PROCEEDINOS OF TMK ACADEMY OF [1«TS. 



April 16. 



The Presuleut, Dr. Rusciienbeuger, in the chair. 



T\vent3--one persons present. 



The death of Michel Charles Durieu de Maisonneuve, a Corre- 

 spondent, was announced. 



On the Relation of Amoeba quadrilineata and Amoeba verrucosa. 

 — Prof. IjEIDY stated that the small but characteristic ama'boid 

 form orif^inaliy described by Mr. Carter (An. Mag. Xat. Jlist., 

 1856, 243) as Amceba (/Kadrilineata, U-om specimens IVnind in Bom- 

 bay, he had repeatedly observed fnjm many ])ositions in our 

 vicinity. In association with it, lie had noticed tlie singularly 

 sluggish Amrcba verrucosa^ and also many intermediate forms, 

 which led iiim to the belief tliat the former was the Aoung of the 

 latter. Subsequenth-, in reviewing the literature of the matter, 

 he had been gratified to learn that Mr. Carter had arrived at the 

 same result from a ditferent point of view. In investigating 

 the history of Amoeba verrucosa, he found that its germs yielded 

 young of the character he had previously described as Amoeba 

 quadrilineata (An. Mag. Xat. Hist., 1857, 37). 



The forms described by Perty as Amoeba natans (Kennt. kleinst. 

 Lebensformen, 1852, 188), by Greeff as Amceba teri'icola (Arch. 

 Mik. Anat., 1866, 299), and b}' Fromentel as Thecamceba quadri- 

 pnrtita (Etudes Microzoaires, 346), he suspected to be the same 

 as Amoeba verrucosa. 



April 23. 

 Dr. R. S. Kenderdine iif the chair. 

 Sixteen persons present. 



Prehidoric Remains. — Joseph Willcox called attention to por- 

 tions of the jaws of some Indians, a stone axe, and a copper plate, 

 that were found recentl}' bv liim and Dr. Geo. H. Ambrose, in an 

 Indian mound in the Gulf Hammock, twenty miles southeast of 

 Cedar Key, in Florida. This mound, made with sand, was about 

 fort}' feet in diameter at the base, and ten or twelve feet high. 

 They found five Indian skeletons. The teeth in one of the jaws 

 on the table, evidentl}' of an old individual, indicated a remark- 

 able freedom from decay. The stone axe is finished in a very 

 smooth and skilful manner, and is made from a stone that is not 

 found within one hundred and fifty miles of the mound. The 

 copper plate is embossed, and is too highly ornamented to suppose 




1878.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 159 



that it was made by an Indian. Mr. J. W. Foster, in his work on 

 the prehistoric races of the United States, writes that " a wide 

 gap exists in connecting the history- of the raouud-builders with 

 the present race of Indians." There is a large Indian mound 

 among tlie mountains in Macon Count}-, North Carolina; and 

 the Cherokee Indians, now living in that vicinit}-, say that they 

 have no tradition in reference to its construction. Perhaps this 

 copper plate might be looked upon as a connecting link between 

 the mound-buiklers and the early white settlers in this country, 

 as it was found in conjunction with the skeletons and the stone 

 axe. 



Note on Corundum. — Mr. Willcox said that the corundum 

 crystals presented by him were found at a locality in Laurens 

 County, South Carolina, that had never been described. He lately 

 visited the place. The corundum is found in a matrix of mica 

 sla^e, which is considered a new rock for bearing corundum. Com- 

 mencing at a point three-quarters of a mile east of Laurens Court 

 House, the corundum is found at several places in a district about 

 three miles long and one-half mile wide, in a direction nearly north- 

 east. As is the case all through the Soutliern States, the rocks in 

 Laurens County are so deejjly covered with soil that it is difficult 

 to trace them. 



April 30. 



Mr. Thomas Meehan, Vice-President, in the chair. 



Twent3'-eight members present. 



A paper entitled "Elements of the Sidereal System," by Jacob 

 Ennis, was presented for publication. 



The Bridging ConvoJutiona in the Primates. — Dr. A. J. Parker 

 remarked that the plis de passage of Gratiolet, the annectant, 

 bridging or transition convolutions of the English anatomists, 

 are small and in man}^ cases concealed convolutions passing from 

 the occipital to the temporal and parietal lobes. Gratiolet attached 

 great importance to these pJis de passage as points of diagnosis 

 in different brains. He distinguished altogether six of tliese 

 transition convolutions, four external and two internal. Tlie two 

 internal connect, according to him, that portion of the occipital 

 lobe known as the cuneus, with the mesial portion of the brain 

 direct!}' in front of the parieto-occipital fissure; the so-called 

 lobulus praecuneus of most authors. He called these, respective!}', 

 the superior and inferior internal jyli de passage. The four ex- 

 ternal plis de fjassage pass from the lateral portion of tlie occipi- 

 tal lobe to join the convolutions of the parietal and temporal 

 lobes. He named these the first or superior external pli de pas- 




IGO PROCEEDINGS OF THEACAIJKMY OF [1878. 



sage, denxieme^ troixieme et quatrieme pli de passage externe. 

 Tlie inferior inlermil pli de passage passes from the apex of the 

 cuneiis forward, ami joins the convolution rnnning forwanl into 

 tlie frontal lol)e. Attention was called to this conv(>lntion in a 

 ])revions coinaiunicalion on the convolutions of the negro hrain ; 

 but it might lie well to refer to it again in this connection. It is 

 this convolution which in the Simians separates the mesial [por- 

 tion of the parieto-occipital from tlie calcarine fissure. The pre- 

 sence of this convolution was considered as a characteristic of the 

 Simian brain, but Huxley pointed out its absence in the brjiin of 

 Aides paniscKs. BisclioQ' states, however, that it is j)resent in 

 Alelrs, only pushed down and concealed in the depths of the pa- 

 rieto-occipital fissure. In the brain of Ateles uler Dr. Parker had 

 found this convolution as well developed as in any of the Simian 

 brains. Formerly it was considered that this convolution was ab- 

 sent in the brain of man; bnt l^ischoff asserts that it is always 

 l)rcsent, sunk in the depths of the parieto-occipital fissure, and 

 Ecker describes it under the name of the gyrus cunei. He had 

 always been able to distinguish it in the human brain ; and espe- 

 cially well-developed, as previously pointed out, in the brain of 

 the negro. 



The superior internal pli de passage lies just aliove the inferior 

 internal, and connects also the occipital lobe with the lolndus 

 prjxicuneus. Bischoff has asserted (Die Grosshirnwindungcn des 

 Menschen, etc., Abhand. der k. bair. Akademie der Wissenchaften, 

 1868) that the superior external and the superior internal plis de 

 passage are identical. Ecker, opposing liischoti"'s interpretation, 

 remarks (note p. 75, Cerebral Convolutions of Man) as follows: 

 "Jiischoff is of the opinion that this convolution (he is sfieaking 

 of the superior internal pli de passage) is homologous with the 

 first outer transition convolution of Gratiolet, our gyrus occipitalis 

 primns, and hence is wanting where the latter is developed, and 

 vice versa. I regret to be obliged to oppose this view ; not only 

 do we find, as I will more particularly' describe in another place, 

 in the brain of various apes (Cercopilhecus cynocej)halus, etc.) 

 both convolutions most clearly developed together, but we also 

 not infrequently find in man a convolution which arises at the 

 posterior extremity of the prtecuneus with the gyrus occipitalis 

 primus, runs backward in an arch convex inward and downward, 

 while the former (gyrus occipitalis primus), as is known, makes an 

 arch outward. In the cuneus the two convolutions again coalesce. 

 This convolution is regularly sunk into the depths of the fissure 

 parieto-occipitalis, and onl^^ becomes visible on pulling apart the 

 ])orders of this fissure ; but sometimes it also comes to the surface, 

 and then causes a very unusual appearance at this part of the 

 cerebral surface." 



This disagreement between the observations of Bischoff and 

 Ecker in regard to these convolutions is due to the fact that in 




18t8.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, IGl 



some Simian brains two convolutions are present as described by 

 Eeker, wliilst in other brains only one can be distinguished. Thus, 

 in one specimen of the brain oi Macacus ??emes/r2««i>, but a single 

 convolution was present, passing from the lower part of the IoIdu- 

 lus i)r8ecuneus backwards to join the occipital lobe. This convo- 

 lution was in shape like the letter S, the anterior arch being 

 directed downwards and inwards, the posterior arch upwards and 

 outAvards. The anterior portion of this convolution evidently 

 corresponds to the superior internal pli de passage ; whilst the 

 posterior arch corresjjonds to the convolution whicli Ecker terms 

 the g3'rus occipitalis primus, and wliich Gratiolet and other writers 

 have also separately designated under the name of the superior 

 external pli de passage^ the superior annectant, bridging, connect- 

 ing convolution of the Englisli anatomists, Huxle^', Turner, Rol- 

 leston, and Marshall. He had found the same condition of things 

 in several other brains, specimens of 3Iacaci(s cynomolgos^ Gercopi- 

 thecus callitrichus, and in Cebus apella. In most brains, however, 

 two convolutions are to be found, an anterior, inwardly arched, 

 and a posterior outwardly arched, corresponding, as had been 

 already stated, with the anterior and posterior portions of what is 

 in some brains a distinct, single, and separate convolution. 



Witli regard to the development and relations of the superior 

 externul pli de passage considerable confusion exists. This is the 

 convolution, which, lying concealed in most of the Simians under 

 that portion of the occipital lobe known as the operculum, develops 

 in the higher Apes, in Man, and Ateles upwards and divides the fis- 

 sura perpendicularis into two parts. Until recentl}' only one of 

 these divisions, the parieto-occipital fissure, has been recognized. 

 Thus Marsliall, following Gratiolet, in describing tlie brain of a 

 Bushwoman calls the lateral portion of the parieto-occipital fissure 

 the external perpendicular fissure, thus identifying tliis with tlie 

 external perpendicular of the Simian brain. This identification 

 is incorrect, or at least this lateral portion of the parieto-occipital 

 can be considered as corresponding to only a small portion of tlie 

 external perpendicular fissure. Tiie fissure which represents the 

 external perpendicular is puslied backwards b}- the development 

 of this convolution, and is found situated ai)parently on the occi- 

 pital lobe and continuous with the interparietal fissure. Pansch 

 appears to be the first who gave a correct description and com- 

 parison of this portion of tlie human brain, and he has since been 

 followed by Ecker. Bischofl[' identifies the internal perpendicular 

 correctl}', but he introduces fresh confusion. In the foetus he re- 

 cognizes the presence of the external perpendicular fissure, but 

 states that it disappears in the eighth month. This, however, is 

 by no means the case. In five fcctal brains, at the end of the 

 eighth, Dr. Parker had found this fissure distinct and well- 

 developed, and in all adult brains which he had studied h(? had 

 found it well marked. lu the brain of the foetus, at the end of the 




102 PR0CEEDIN08 OF THE ACADEMY OF [187S. 



eighth month, this coiivoliil ion presented almost the same appear- 

 anee as in the brain of tlie O rani;, according to tlie lignre given by 

 liischod". Tiiis convohition. the snperior external pli <li jias^iafje, 

 varies as to its extent of development in different individuals. In 

 the l)rain of tlie negro he had found it much simpler than in the 

 white. I'ansch and KcUer are the only writers who recognize in 

 the human brain the fissure corresponding to the external perpen- 

 dicular of the Simian. Pansch calls it fissura occipitalis externa, 

 and Packer fissura occipitalis transversus. The remaining bridging 

 convolutions present nothing of importance. The second lies 

 generally concealed under the operculum. The third passes for- 

 ward from the apex of the occipital lobe into the second temporal 

 convolution. Tlie fourth lies below this, and passes into the third 

 temporal convolution. 



In identifying and limiting these convolutions in the human 

 brain, much confusion has arisen, and ha agreed entirely with 

 Ecker, tiiat, although they may have some significance in the brain 

 of the Ai)cs,tliey have no special significance in the brain of Man, 

 and should not, therefore, receive separate and distinct names. In 

 the human brain they appear merely as the posterior portions of 

 convolutions which extend into the temporal and parietal lobes 

 and connect these with the occipital lobe. 



Dr. Jos. W. Anderson, Walter Wood, and W. W. Frazier were 

 elected members. 



The following paper was ordered to be printed: — 





PROC. A. N. 8. PHILA. 1878. 



PL 



■I ••■tf/o 





%. 



m 



■ <■'- 



.•■'■*;■■■: 








1878.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 163 



ON A NEW SPECIES OF SPONGE. 

 , BY ALPHEUS HYATT. 



Aplysina pedicellata, Hyatt. (Plate 1.) 



This species is founded upon three specimens, two in the collec- 

 tion of the Academy, and one in the collection of the Boston 

 Society of Natural Historj'. Locality is unknown, but probably 

 East Indies. 



The forms are all fistular, and from a foot to sixteen inches 

 long, though not more than one and one-eighth inch in diameter. 

 The basal portion is almost solid, and is composed of huge verti- 

 cal fibres connected b}' veiy short horizontal branches, the mesh 

 being very small. 



The walls of the tubes are built up out of a thin network of 

 fibres of two kinds. The inner part is a sheet of fibre, which sur- 

 rounds the tube itself; the outer part is composed of palmate ex- 

 tensions of the inner sheet which anastomose with each other in 

 every direction. In this way they give a cellular, or open frill- 

 like aspect to the walls, since the cells or frills open more widely, 

 or flare outwaixlly.^ The mesh in most parts has a quadragonal 

 form, but not infrequently has also the usual pentagonal or hexa- 

 gonal outline common in most species of Aplysina. The fibres 

 are hollow, but this is much larger in the vertical or primary fibres 

 than in the secondary or horizontal fil)res. The hollows of the 

 primary fibres are universally filled with debris, but the cavities 

 ill the secondary fibres are entirely free from foreign matter. 



Another very curious peculiarity is observable in the structure 

 of the fibres. The central core of debris in the primary fibres is 

 surrounded by a cement, apparently of keratode. This may be 

 seen where the secondary fibres branch off from'the primary as a 

 continuous layer running across the open face of the secondary 

 fibre. 



The size of the cavity in the primary appears to be dependent 

 upon the quantity of the debris in the primary fibres, since in one 

 preparation the cavity of the primary fibres became as small as in 



' This characteristic is not shown in the figures, which give the walls a 

 soHd aspect they do not naturally possess. 




1C4 PROCEEDINGS OF TIIK ACADEMY OP [1878. 



the Kccoiidary ril)i-e.s wlicni.'ver the core of (U'l)i'is failed in con- 

 tin uity. 



Tlie diameter of this hollow varies iiorniall\- from one-half to 

 one-eighth of the whole diameter. 



These facts lead to the conclnsion that, if this species lived 

 where the water contained no sediment, we shonld find the fibres 

 with an exceeding small central cavity. The concentric coats of 

 kcratode comprising the fil)re are of two kinds as is usual, tiiose 

 which are primarily formed by the derm and those nubsequently 

 depositeil b^' the meso-derm, the former being lighter colored, 

 and occupying the interior, and the latter, in the specimens ex- 

 amined, very dark colored and with an exceedingh' fibrous aspect. 



This thickening of the walls of the fibre by meso-dermic deposits, 

 and the small size of the central cavit}', are similar to the charac- 

 teristics of Verongia, to which also the form of the fibre, rounded 

 rather than flattened, approximates. 



This species, therefore, presents a mingling of some of the cha- 

 racteristics of Verongia and Aph/sina, and also possesses a curious 

 resemblance to the true Spongiaj in the habit of taking debris into 

 the core of the fibre. 



This mingling of characteristics led me at first to the supposi- 

 tion that it was a new genus. 



Upon reflection, however, I do not think that these character- 

 istics justify its separation from the genus Aplysina. 



The peculiar arrangement of the fibres in sheets, and their re- 

 semblance in structure, far outweigh all other characteristics, and 

 give a peculiar aspect to the surface which I believe is confined to 

 the members of the genus Aph/sina. It is, however, a very re- 

 markable species, and this justifies its publication in spite of the 

 uncertainty about the locality. 




1878.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 165 



May Y. 



The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 



Thirty-six persons present. 



A paper entitled " Descriptions of New Species of American 

 Bees," by E.T. Cresson, was presented for publication. 

 The death of Robert Frazer, a member, was announced. 



On Lepidurus Gouesii^ Pack. — Dr. A. S. Packard placed on 

 record the occurrence of Lepidurus Couesii in northern Utah. 

 The species had not before been found south of northern Montana, 

 near the Milk River. The determination was based upon a speci- 

 men of a female with eggs, sent to him b}^ the Academy for exami- 

 nation. 



The President read the following : — 




lOG PROOEEDINOS OF THE ACAliEMY OF [187S. 



NOTICE OF THE LATE DR. PICKERING. 

 IJY W. .S. W. RUSCIIENBEIKiER, M.U. 



It is a custom of this Society to fiinioiiuce the deatli of every 

 menil)er or correspondent when it occurs, without accompanying 

 the announcement with a notice of his career. From this custom 

 may be exce|)ted tliose members who iiave l)een conspicuous by 

 their success in the cultivation of natural science, or who have 

 won the general approbation of the Academy' by generous con- 

 tribution towards the advancement of science, or who have largely 

 aided the progress of the Society b}- their labors. 



For such reasons it seems appropriate that tlie archives of tlie 

 Society should contain a record to show why his contemporary and 

 fellow-members entertained sentiments of sincere respect and cor- 

 dial esteem for the late Dr. Charles Pickering. 



The records show that Charles Pickering, M.D., of Salem, Mass., 

 ■was elected a correspondent of this Society Nov. 28, 1826. lie 

 had then just entered the twent3'-second year of his age. Early 

 in the following year (182*7), he became a resident of Philadelphia, 

 and, therefore, a member. From that date until 1838 he was rarely 

 absent from any meeting of the Academy. 



At that time the details of the affairs of the Society were con- 

 ducted chiefly by standing committees. Dr. Pickering served on 

 the Zoological Committee from December 25, 1827, until January'-, 

 1838, ten years; on the Botanical Committee from Dec. 28, 1828 

 (of which he was the chairman from Jan. 1833), until Jan. 1837, 

 eight years; on the Publication Committee from Dec. 1829 until 

 Dec. 1843, four years; and on the Library Committee from Jan. 

 1837 until Jan. 1838, one j'ear. 



He was Librarian from Dec. 1828 until Dec. 1883, five years; 

 and a Curator from Dec. 1833 until Dee. 1837, four years. 



The record tells us that he discharged faithfully and efficiently'" 

 the duties of all tiie positions to which he was appointed. 



To Dr. Pickering was intrusted the transfer to the Academy of 

 the great collection of plants bequeathed by the Rev. Lewis David 

 Von Schweinitz, who died in 1834. He prepared a catalogue of 

 American plants in the collection of the Acadeni}', and presented 

 it at the stated meeting held May 13, 1834. Those plants which 




1818.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 16T 



were previously in the collection, many of them Mr. Nuttall's 

 types, he intercalated in the Schweinitz herbarium, attaching an 

 appropriate label to each. On the 24th of March, 1835, on motion 

 of Prof. H. D.Rogers it was unanimously resolved, " That the 

 thanks of the Society be awarded to Dr. Charles Pickering for the 

 highly successful manner in which he has executed the very 

 arduous task of collating and arranging the extensive herbarium 

 of the Academ}'." 



The work done by Dr. Pickering has contributed much to facili- 

 tate the labors of his successors in the botanical department of the 

 Academy. 



On the 26th of Jan. 1836, on motion of Dr. Samuel George 

 Morton it was unanimousljwesolved, " That the grateful thanks 

 of the Institution be tendered to Dr. Pickering for his voluntary 

 journey to New Harmony, the faithful execution of the trust re- 

 posed in him of selecting from the library of Mr. Maclure such 

 works as were designed for the Academy, and for the prompt and 

 successful arrangements made by him for the transportation of 

 said books to this city." 



The mission just referred to occupied Dr. Pickering about three 

 months, and brought to the Academy's library an addition of 

 about 2300 volumes of valuable scientific works. 



The services of Dr. Pickering to the Academ}' were important 

 in every sense, and are worthy of grateful i-emembrance. 



While laboring for the Academy, he qualified himself perfectly 

 to discharge efficiently those duties which devolved upon him in 

 1838, when he became a member of the United States Exploring 

 Expedition. The means and facilities requisite for the instruction 

 and training of students of natural science were at that period no- 

 where in the country more ample than in the Academy; and it is 

 believed that at this time they are not better in any other institu- 

 tion in the United States. 



On the 19th of October, 182T, Dr. Pickering read, at a meeting 

 of the American Philosophical Society, a paper " On the Geo- 

 graphical Distribution of Plants," which was published in the 

 third volume of the Transactions in 1830. He was elected a 

 member of the American Philosophical Society Jan. 15, 1828, and 

 resigned in Nov. 1837. 



He was elected Recording Secretary of the Pennsylvania^Hor- 




168 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1S78. 



ticullural Society Feb. 1830, aiul served till Sept. 183T, when he 

 resij^ned. 



Ill conjunction witli James II. Dana, Dr. Pickering read, Feb. 

 20, 1838, before the Yale Natural History Society', of which he 

 was a nietnl)er, a " Descrijjtion of a Crustacooiis Animal bclont^ing 

 to the genus Caligus, C. Americanus," which occu[)ies fort}' pages 

 of vol. xxxviii. of Silliman's Journal. 



Dr. Pickering was appointed a niomljcr of the scientific corps 

 attached to the United States Exploring Expedition, under com- 

 mand of Lieutenant Charles Wilkes. He was placed on board of 

 the flag-ship Vincennes. The expedition sailed from Hampton 

 Koads August 19, 1838, and arrived off Sandy Hook, N. Y., June 

 10, 1842, after an absence of nearlj^ four years. He is recorded 

 among those present at the stated meeting of the Academy, July 

 5tli, and frequently afterwards until he again went abroad. The 

 first record of his presence after his return is Maj' 20, 1845, and 

 from that date he occasionally attended meetings every j'^ear. He 

 was last present November T, 1870. 



October 11, 1843, Dr. Pickering left Boston and visited Egypt, 

 Arabia, India, and the eastern part of Africa, for the sake of 

 extending and verifying observations made while attached to the 

 United States Exploring Expedition. Upon his return he settled 

 in Boston, and prepared his '• Kaces of Man and their Geographi- 

 cal Distribution," quarto, pp. 447, published by Charles C. Little 

 and James Brown, Boston, 1848, being vol. ix. of the Exploring 

 Expedition. 



In 1850 he contributed a paper, "Enumeration of the Races of 

 Wan," to the Edinburgh New Philosophical Journal, vol. xlviii. 



His work, entitled "The Geographical Distribution of Animals 

 and Plants," quarto, pp. 212, being vol. xv. of the Exploring Ex- 

 pedition, was published by Little & Brown, Boston, 1854. 



In the Proceedings of the American Academ}- of Arts and 

 Sciences are recorded his observations on the Egj'ptian computa- 

 tion of Time, Oct. 1849; on the Egyptian Astronomical Cycle, 

 Ma^', 1850; on Sulphur Vapor, Dec. 9, 1856; on the Coptic 

 Alphabet, March 8, 1859; on the Geographical Distribution 

 of Species, March 22, 1859, and Dec. 11, 1860; and on the Jewish 

 Calendar, Oct. 11, 1864. At the request of the Secretary of 

 the Institution he prepared a paper "On the Gliddon Mummy 

 Case in the Museum of the Smithsonian Institution," in June, 




1878.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 169 



1867, which is published in vol. xvi. of the Smithsonian Con- 

 tributions to Knowledge. 



The "Geographical Distribution of Animals and Plants. Part 

 II. Plants in their Wild State," quarto, was published by the 

 Naturalists' Agency, Salem, 1876. It is preceded by a note, 

 " The following 524 pages comprise about one-half of a prepared 

 volume, the printing of which was suspended in 1860. — Charles 

 Pickering." 



The great work of Dr. Pickering's life. The Chronological His- 

 tory of Plants, to which he had devoted sixteen j'ears of laborious 

 research, was onl}' recently completed, and is now passing through 

 the press. 



This imperfect summar}^ of work completed is sufficient evi- 

 dence of his unremitting industr}'-, and suggests that he fully 

 utilized his opportunities to qualify himself for research during 

 tlie ten years he zealously wrought in the offices and on the com- 

 mittees of the Academ3\ He was certainly a distinguished 

 alumnus of the Institution. 



Dr. Pickering was characterized b3' imperturbable firmness of 

 purpose, and by his loyalty to truth, and integrity in every sense. 

 He was extremely modest, averse to parade, and remarkably free 

 from pretension of every kind. His acquirements were extensive, 

 varied, and minutely accurate. His friends loved him for his 

 unaggressive, alwaj's tranquil temper, and his obliging disposition. 



To this imperfect outline of Dr. Pickering's scientific career, 

 though a thing apart, may be added a few words on his heredity. 



Colonel Timotliy Pickering, his grandfather, was native of Salem, 

 Mass., but his active participation in the Revolution brought him' 

 to Philadelphia. He served in the army, took part in the battles 

 of Brandywine and Germantown, and was present at the surrender 

 of Yorktown. He was appointed Postmaster-General, August, 

 1792; Secretary of War, Jan. 1795; and Secretar^^ of State, Dec. 

 1795, from which office he was removed May 12, 1800, by President 

 John Adams. His son, Timothy Pickering, Jr., the father of Dr. 

 Pickering, was born in this city, Oct. 1, 1779. He graduated at 

 Harvard College ; was appointed a midshipman in the navy 

 Jan. 17, 1799, served creditably one cruise under command of the 

 famous Stephen Decatur, and resigned May 2, 1801. 



His father. Colonel Pickering, had acquired extensive traces of 

 " wild lands" in western Pennsylvania. Finding himself in re- 

 12 




no PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1878. 



strictcd circuinstaiK'cs when removi'd from ollice I)}' President 

 Jolin Ad:uns, he determined to transfer his famil}' to those lands 

 witii a view to their settlement. Timothy J'iekeringj, Jr., joined 

 his father, and settled at Starneca, now in Susquehanna County, 

 Pa. There he married Lurena Cole, Dec. 20, 1804, and there Dr. 

 Charles Pickering was born Nov. 10, 1805. His father died May 

 14, 1807, in the twenty-cii)htli year of his age. A few years prior 

 to this date Colonel Pickering had changed his place of residence 

 to a farm at Wenham, near Salem, and tliither he took the widow 

 and her son to remain members of his own household, 'i'hore Dr. 

 Pickering was raised and educated under the immediate direction 

 of his mother, and the supervision of his distinguislied grand- 

 father, lie was a member of the class of 1823 at Harvard, and 

 graduated from the medical department of the same school in 

 1820. 



Dr. Pickering married Sarah S., daughter of the late Daniel 

 Hammond, Esq., in 1851. He died in Boston, March 17, 1878, 

 leaving a widow but no child. His memor}' will be affectionately 

 cherished by those who knew him, and his works will secure him 

 respect from all who may follow the same paths of research. 




18T8.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. Ill 



May 14. 

 Mr. Thos. Meehan, Yice-President, in the chair. 

 Thirt^'-one persons present. 

 The death of Prof. Jos. Henrj-, a correspondent, was annonnced. 



On Parasitic Worms in the Shad. — Prof. Leidy stated that 

 during the last month he had received letters and specimens, from 

 Ts^ew York, Trenton, Norfolk, and elsewhere, with information 

 that the shad, this season, was mnch infested with worms. Two 

 of the writers, physicians, had expressed apprehension in regard 

 to the parasites, and snpposed that they had traced several cases 

 of illness to the nse of shad which tliey snspected had been infested 

 with the worms. 



The worm lias long been known in Europe as a parasite of the 

 herring, mackerel, cod, salmon, and other food fishes. It is the 

 Filaria ca]>svla7-ia of Rudolphi, or the Agamonema capsula7'ia of 

 Diesing. Prof L. had described it in the Proceedings of this 

 Academ}' in 1856, from the shad and herring, and had repeatedly 

 observed it in the same fishes every j^ear since. It nsuall}^ infests 

 the internal organs, and is often observed encapsulated in a close 

 coil, upon the roes, the intestines, and the liver. It is from half 

 an incli to an inch or more long. Most individuals have a few 

 of the parasites, and sometimes they are exceedingly numerous. 

 They appear not to affect the healtii of the fislies unless they are 

 very numerous, when they impoverish their hosts. Prof. L. 

 believed that tliey did not affect the wholesomeness of the fish as 

 food, and perhaps when cooked with the fish were equally good 

 and nutritious. Like others, he felt an antipathy to the worms, 

 and he was in the habit of scraping them off from the roes of 

 smoked herring before eating these. He took the opportunity of 

 adding, what was already well known to naturalists, that most 

 animals are infested with parasites, which were transmitted by 

 feeding on one another. The remedy against transmission was 

 heat. He who uses only Avell-cooked meats need have no appre- 

 hension of worms from such food. 



Species of Eughjpha, Trinema^ Pamphagus^ and Cyphoderia^ 

 with Synonyma and Descriptions of New Forms. — Prof. Joseph 

 Leidy placed on record the following synonj^ms and descriptions 

 of new species of Rhizopods: — 



1. EiTGLYPHA ALVEOLATA, Dujardin, Carter, Wallicb, llertwig and Lesser, 

 Leidy, Schulze. 



Eiiglypha tuberculata, Dujardin. 



Difflugia areolala, D. acanthopAora., D. laevigata, D. striolata.^ 




172 mOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [187S. 



D. Floridae, 1). piloi^a, D. moluccrnsis^ D. Avi])hnrn^ D. rectaiuju- 

 laris^ J). Roberti Miitler, D. acriata^ D. striata, D. Shannoniana, 

 D. sithncuta, VAw. 



EiKjllipha bciu's^ E. sclirj^i'a, T'crt}'. 



Euglypha anipullacea, Ilertwig tmd Lesser. 



2. EuoLYPrrA ciliata. 



I)i(/lugia ctliafa, D. pilosa, Seligerella ciliata, S. jnlosa, Klir. 

 Eicjlt/pha compressa, Carter, Leidy, Scbulze. 



3. EUOLYPHA SEMIXIIjU.M. 



Dijjlurjia Scmintdum, D. Semen, Assulina Seminuliim, Elir. 

 Euglijpha brunnea, Leidy. Euglypha tincla, Archer. 



4. Euglypha globosa, Carter, Leidy, Scliulzc. 



5. Euglypha spinosa, Carter, Leidy. 



6. El'glypha strigosa. 



DiJJhigia sfrigos^a, Ehrenborg. 



Frequent in sphaguous swamps of Xew Jersey. 



7. Euglypha cristata, Leidy. 



8. Euglypha mucronata. 



Narrow, bottle-shaped, witli the fundus terminating in a long 

 spine. Plates oval, overlapping at the borders; the plates of 

 tlie month from 4 to fi, angular and dentate at the free extremity'. 

 Length g^th mm., breadth ^^gth mm., mucro to g^th mm. long. 

 Sphagnous swamps of New Jersej'. 



9. Euglypha brachiata. 



Nearly like the former, but without the mucronate fundus, and 

 with 2, 4, or G equidistant, long spines diverging a short distance 

 above the mouth. Size aliout the same as the former, and found 

 in same localities. Both forms are frequent. 



10. Trinema enchklys. 



Trineme, Dujardin, 1836. Trinema, Dujardin, 1838. 



Difflugia Enckelys, and Arcella hyalina, Ehrenberg, 1838. 



Trinema acinus, Dujardin, 1841, Perty, Fresenius, Cla[)arede 

 and Lachmann, Leidy, Schulze. 



Arcella conatricta, A. Nidus Pendidus, A. Disphaera, A. caudi- 

 cola, A. Enchelys, A. Megastoma, A. rostrata, A. reticulata, A. 

 seriata, A. Pyrum, Ehrenberg. 



Euglypha Enchelys, Wallich. Euglypha pleurostoma, Carter. 



11. Pamphagus mutabilis. 



Corycie, Dujardin, 1852. 

 Pamphagus mutabilis, Bailey, 1853. 

 Corycia (Dujardin) Clap, and Lach. 1858. 

 Playiophrys sculiformis, Hertwig and Lesser. 




1818.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 173 



12. CyPHODERIA AMPULLA. 



Difflvgia Ampulla (AYerneck), Ebrenberg, 1840. 



Difflugia Lagena^ D. Seelandica, D. adunca, D. alabamensis, D. 

 uncinata^ Ehr. 



Cyphoderia margaritacea^ Schhiraberger, 1845, Fresenius, Car- 

 ter, Hertwig and Lesser, Leicly, Scliulze. 



Euglypha curvata^ Ferty. 



Lagynis haltica^ Sehultze. 



Euglypha margariiacea^ Difflugia margaritacea^ Euglypha bal- 

 tica, Wallich. • 



The following papers were ordered to be printed : — 




1V4 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1878. 



ELEMENTS OF SIDEREAL SYSTEM. 

 BY JACOB ENNIS. 



ITitherto the work of Astronoin}' has been mainly on our solar 

 s3-steni. Beyond this the labor of astronomers has been given to 

 in(livi(bial stars; bnt not to these stars as a body forming our 

 sidereal systen. The time has now come when the sidereal system 

 as a unit must be made in all its vastness a distinct object of in- 

 vestigation. I have demonstrated that our sun acts powerfully 

 through gravity on the so-called fixed stars, and must receive 

 powerful action in return. This mutual interaction between all 

 the stars would bring them with great violence to this common 

 centre of gravity, and therefore the}'' must revolve with high 

 velocities around that centre to gain a corresponding centrifugal 

 force. Now first we learn the uses of such high velocities as those 

 of 61 Cygni and of Arcturus, the one nearly 2000 and the other 

 nearl}' 3000 miles per minute. In my Memoir on "Our Sidereal 

 System," published in these Proceedings for 18Y6,1 demonstrated 

 that the centre of gravity of our sidereal sj^stem, around which 

 all the stars revolve, must lie in the plane of the median line of 

 the galax}', that its direction is not far from the south galactic 

 pole, and that its distance is not far from that of the stars of the 

 fourth magnitude. Therefore the vast multitude of the stars 

 visible to the naked eye, sa}^ five-sixths of them all, must lie on the 

 same side of the centre of gravity with our sun. 



This distance of our situation, so far away on one side of the 

 centre of our sidereal sj'stem, renders the study of that system 

 the more difllcult; the same as our similar jiosition in our solar 

 S3'stem, far away from its centre, hindered and rendered diflicult 

 the reception of the Copernican theory for two generations. But 

 now, knowing approximatel}' the position of our sidereal centre, 

 and the geometrical data by which that centre was found, we are 

 prepared to enter on the grand work of sidereal astrononi}-, and 

 to stud}'^ the revolutions of twenty millions of stars. In building 

 the superstructure of sidereal astronomy on the foundation just 

 laid, it is important to know precisely how to proceed ; and the 

 design of this paper is to point out how and where we are to 

 begin; and what are to be the chief parts of the work. Jn so 




IStS.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 175 



doing I will merely state what have been m^^ own studies on this 

 subject a few years past. 



First. After learning the proper motion of a star, the first thing 

 to be done is to la}- down the line of its nodes on the plane of the 

 galax}'. This is in many cases a most difficult task. But the 

 easier ones are to be determined first; and these are situated in 

 the close neighborhood of both galactic poles. After the proper 

 motions within 30 degrees of both poles have been finished, as 

 nearly as possible for the present, tiien the other proper motions 

 more distant from these poles will be more advantageously studied. 



Second. The galax^^ must be divided into 360 degrees ; because 

 the galactic plane must be the basis of sidereal astronomy; and 

 to this all sidereal motions must be referred. I propose that the 

 initial point for numbering the degrees on the galactic circle be 

 the point where the median line of the galaxy intersects the ecliptic, 

 near the conA^ergence of the three bright constellations, Orion, 

 Gemini, and Taurus. From these the numbers should run south- 

 eastwardly until the galactic circle be completed. 



Third. The median line of the galax}' should be precisely deter- 

 mined. This is necessary before we can tell where it intersects 

 the ecliptic. This median line must be conspicuously drawn on 

 all star maps and celestial globes, and the galactic degrees must 

 be numbered thereon. Its distance from a parallel great circle 

 must be accurately maintained all around. For on this distance 

 depends the determination of our own distance from the sidereal 

 centre. All this will necessitate a careful study of the galaxy — 

 its breadth, contours, and real position among the stars. 



Fourth After finding as nearly as possible the line of the nodes' 

 of any star on the galactic plane, tlie next thing to be done is to 

 determine the inclination of its orbit to that plane. Here again 

 we find that the stars easiest to begin with, are those nearest the 

 galactic poles. The planes of tiieir orbits iire nearl}' at right 

 angles to tiie plane of the galaxy. 



Fifth. After the median line of the galax}'^ has been ascertained 

 and accurately drawn, we can then, and not until then, determine 

 the positions of the galactic poles. 



Sixth. After establishing the sidereal poles, it will be important 

 that we construct sidereal globes, having parallel circles concen- 

 tric with the poles, and also meridian lines. These will assis^ in 

 the very important work of finding the lines of the nodes, and the 




170 PROCKKTHNCS OF THK Af'ADKMY OF [1878. 



iDcliiiations of the orl)it:il i)l;inc.s. Tlic iminl)erin<^ortli(' meridians 

 should l)cgin at the iiiteiseotioi) oi" tlie median line of the galax}' 

 in or near Orion; and the numbers sliouhl he identical with tliose 

 on the median line of the galaxy, Tiie numljcring of the parallels 

 should begin at the north galactic pole, and continue to 1S0°. 

 The}' should read S. N, P. I)., that is, sidereal north polar distance. 

 As the o])jcct of these sidereal globes must be to discover the real 

 nature of sidereal motions, so those stars alone which have known 

 proper motions should be admitted on the globes. All else would 

 only confuse the attention and obstruct discovery. 



Seventh. To discover which way around the Milky Way re- 

 volves, is a grand object. It must revolve in its own plane like 

 a great wheel. This is absolutely necessary from the fact of the 

 intergravitation of the stars. But with the swiftest stellar veloci- 

 ties yet known, say 3000 miles per minute, about 40 3'ears would 

 be required for the galactic stars to move through one second of 

 arc. Therefore we have no present data to learn anything of the 

 galactic revolutions from its own stars. Hence to attain our 

 purpose, we must study the motions of the larger magnitude stars 

 "which are situated in the direction of the galaxy. Because many 

 of these must have the same motion as the galax}' itself, especially 

 those far out toward the galaxy; therefore, the more distant stars 

 in the direction of the galaxy, especially those with very slow 

 proper motions, will give us the most information. 



Eighth. One of the fundamental elements in sidereal astronomy 

 is the point in space toward which our sun is tending. The high 

 importance of this element is seen in the fact that our sun's 

 motion obscures and alters the apparent motions of many stars, 

 giving some of them retrograde motions, the same as our Earth's 

 motion in its orbit imparts retrograde motions to the planets. 



Some astronomers of the highest repute have entertained the 

 opinion that our sun is moving toward a point in the constellation 

 Hercules, But this opinion is founded on the supposition that 

 all, or nearly all the stars, are relatively stationary in space, and 

 that their observed proper motions are onl^' apparent, and that 

 they are caused by our sun's motion. But this supposition is 

 above all things inadmissible; for there is no conceivable reason 

 why all the other stars should not in general have velocities equal 

 to our sun's. Nevertheless, the discussions on this point may 




1818.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. lit 



not be altogether barren ; for the facts detected in the discussions 

 maj' be turned to better account witli a better theory'. 



I have clearly shown in my former paper on "Our Sidereal 

 System" that the point in space toward which our sun is moving, 

 must be sensibly the same during two or three centuries, that is, 

 during all the time in which the positions of the stars have been 

 accurately observed and recorded. I submit the following as being 

 a better guide for finding that point. As the circumference of a 

 circle, more strictly speaking a tangent, is alwa3'S at right angles 

 to a radius, so the direction of our sun's motion, if its orbit be 

 nearly circular, must be nearly at right angles to the direction 

 toward the centre of our sidereal system. Having found that 

 centre approximatel}', we now know the zone in the heavens, in- 

 eluded in a few degrees on each side of a great circle, where to 

 look for the point in s^jace to which our sun is hastening. But if 

 the sun's orbit be strongly elliptical, and if its present position in 

 that orbit be not near the apsides, then this zone in the heavens 

 must be a little widened. Still, even if widened, we may be happy 

 to know where it lies. It must correspond very nearly with the 

 galaxy. This results from the fact that the direction toward our 

 sidereal centre is nearly perpendicular to the galactic plane. Any 

 point in the constellation Hercules cannot be the point we seek, 

 for it is too far from the galax3\ 



Ninth. It will be an assistance to workers in sidereal astronomj'- 

 to make what may be called sideriums. These should stand in 

 the sa^e relation to our sidereal sj'stem, that planetariums hold 

 to our solar system; but their structure must be very different 

 from planetariums. We have all seen during our recent centennial 

 celebration man}'- little flags with their staffs stuck in a central 

 ball ; and as their staffs were all of the same length, they formed 

 a globe of little flags. A siderium must have a central ball made 

 of soft wood or cork. In this ball must be stuck thin sharp- 

 pointed rods, and their outer ends, instead of flags, should bear 

 paste-board arrows, representing the directions of stellar flights. 

 On the arrow should be written, or printed, the name of the star, 

 as 61 Cygni, and the different lengths of the arrows might aid to 

 show their relative velocities. The lengths of the rods should 

 show the relative distances of the stars from the sidereal centre. 

 In the cases of two stars of the second magnitude, one in the 

 direction of our sidereal centre, and the other in apposition, the 




178 PR0CEJ:DIN0S of the ACAnF.MY OF [IS7S. 



leiifjtlis of tlic rods lujldiug the arrows .should l)i.':ir tlie i)r()i)oiLiou 

 to each other of ab<Hit as 1 to IJ. Tlie positions and inclinations 

 of the rods shf)uld represent the inclinations of the stellar orbits 

 to the galactic plane. The galaxy should be represented by a 

 circular rim held at some distance beyond the arrows, by about -4 

 supporting radii or spokes. 



Tenth. All the star catalogues should be immediately compared 

 to learn the precise amount of their known proper motions and to 

 discover new ones. It is now 28 years since any general work of 

 this kind has been done. Main's catalogue of proper motions was 

 presented to the ll03'al Astronomical Society in 1850. .Since then 

 all the more accurate observations and star catalogues have been 

 made, and therefore, more valuable results might now be obtained. 

 Comparisons of the recorded positions of the southern hemisphere 

 stars are particularly needed; for in that hemisphere but little is 

 known of the stellar motions. 



Eleventh. New observations should immediately be made of 

 every star whose proper motion has been announced, or evea 

 suspected; this would give accurac}', firmness, and confidence to 

 the data which must be employed in the construction of this new 

 system of sidereal astronomy. 



Twelfth. In order to determine which way the galax}'^ wheels 

 ai'ound in its mighty circle, it is of the utmost importance that 

 the [)ositions of many hundreds of its stars should be ascertained 

 with the strictest precision and without sxny delaj-. This would 

 be of no benefit to us; but what a rich legacy would such deter- 

 minations be to the next generation, and how memorable would 

 they stand through all coming time! Ilipparchus was the first 

 to make a catalogue of a few hundred stars, and to record their 

 positions, and he receives our sincere gratitude and homage. "Who 

 is to be the Ilipparchus of the ]Milky Way, and to send down a 

 blessing through all generations to the enct of time? What a 

 worthy object for any young man to propose for the devotion of 

 his life ! All the stars of the galaxy cannot be observed, on account 

 of their numbers. But maps of different patches should be made 

 here and there all around the ring. The stars of different magni- 

 tudes from the ninth to the twelfth, and even to the very smallest, 

 should be mapped together, so that hereafter the velocities of the 

 diflTerent magnitudes, that is, of difiereut distances, might be com- 

 pared. 




18Y8.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 179 



Thirteenth. Sidereal raatheruatics will open new problems of 

 exceeding grandeur. In our solar system there is a controlling 

 central sun, and in the mundane and other planetary systems, 

 there is a controlling central planet. But our sidereal system is 

 ruled by no central sun, and its subordinate clusters, such as the 

 Pleiades, Coma Berenicis, those in Hercules, and man}- others are 

 equally without a central body. The common centre of gravity 

 in the general system, and the subordinate local centres in the 

 various clusters, are the controlling powers. And they will 

 demand new mathematical processes, and lead to new improve- 

 ments in mathematical science. 



I have demonstrated how a revolving nebulous globe may 

 abandon all its material as rings, which ma}' break up into stars, 

 and how these stars must continue to revolve in the same paths 

 with the rings until t\my be deflected-* from these paths by pertur- 

 bations. 



One of the sublime problems of sidereal astronomy will be the 

 amount of centripetal force in tlie entire sidereal system. This must 

 be told by the centrifugal force, and this latter will have to be de- 

 termined b}^ the velocities of the stars in their revolutions, and by 

 their distances from the sidereal centre. Judging from the extreme 

 velocities of some stars, velocities of 2000 or 3000 miles per minute, 

 velocities greater than any in our solar system, we must conclude 

 that the common centripetal force toward the centre of our side- 

 real sj'stem is very great. 



In our solar system the centripetal force is greater toward the 

 centre of the system ; but this is not true in our sidereal system. 

 A particle a hundred or a thousand miles below the earth's surface, 

 is not impelled by gravity toward the earth's centre, as strongly 

 as one on the surface — the same principle rules in our sidereal 

 system. 



As the asteroid Pallas has been drawn by perturbation as far 

 as about 35 degrees from its original plane, so it can be shown 

 that perturbations may deflect some stars away from the galactic 

 plane so as to revolve at right angles to it. Other stars mixj be 

 deflected equally far in the opposite direction. Then these two 

 sets of stars will revolve in opposite directions around the sidereal 

 centre. And when this happens to many stars, the system must 

 become globular in shape, like many nebulse which are diatanc 

 sidereal systems. The dynamics of such systems must be new 




180 PROCEEDINOS OF THE ACAKEMY OF [1878. 



olijcots of niathemalical rcsoarcli, especially in the face of the 

 anuounccnient, that the stability of our solar system depends on 

 the movements of all its members in the same i)lane, and in the 

 same direction. 



AVhen two stars move with high velocities, in contrary' direc- 

 tions, around the sidereal centre, and approach near to each other, 

 they will not come in contact, unless their lines of motion meet 

 at the same time in the same point; but they may come indis- 

 solubly within each others' gravitating force, and thus Ibrni a 

 double star. So triple stars may be formed, and multiple stars, 

 and clusters with hundreds and even thousands of members. 



The ultimate revolutions of such clusters, each one around its 

 own centre, and altogether around the general sidereal centre, are 

 absolute necessities. These motions must be the resultants of the 

 l)ri()r individual motions, and of the effects of gravitj' from closer 

 contiguity. To follow them all by calculation w\\\ be a new and 

 dillicult task. This paper is not designed to pursue these mathe- 

 matical processes, but only to indicate some of the new and grand 

 prolilems which sidereal astrononi}- must open; problems very 

 dillerent from any in our solar system. 




1818.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 181 



DESCRIPTIONS OF NEW SPECIES OF NORTH AMERICAN BEES.' 

 BY E. T. CRESSOX. 



Trigona nigerrima. 



$. — Piceoiis-black, the pubescence black; sides efface broadly, 

 and the cheeks, pale sericeous ; clypeus broad, the apical middle 

 foveate; tips of mandibles brown; scntellum broadly rounded 

 behind; metathorax smooth and polished; wings fuliginous, apex 

 subhyaline, stigma yellowish; abdomen shining. Length .25 inch. 



Hah. Mexico (Sumichrast). One specimen. 



Trigona nigra, 



^. — Shining black, the pubescence black; face and clypeus with 

 a pale sericeous pile; flagellum dull testaceous beneath; wings 

 fuscous, whitish at tips ; pubescence of legs fuscous ; abdomen 

 narrow, polished, more or less brown at base. Length .20 inch. 



Hah. Mexico (Sumichrast). Three specimens. 



Trigona perilampoides. 



$. — Black, opaque; head and thorax densely punctured, the 

 latter coarsely'' and confluently so above, clothed with a short pale 

 glittering pubescence; face with a silvery-cinereous pile; labrum, 

 tips of mandibles, and antennas fulvo-testaceous ; narrow lateral 

 margin of mesothorax, apical margin of scutellum, and a round 

 spot on each extreme basal corner, luteous ; scutellum subtrian- 

 gular, flat, projecting over the metathorax, the apex emarginate; 

 tegulte brown ; wings smok}', paler at base ; legs brown, paler at 

 base and apex; abdomen short, broad, two basal segments shining, 

 piceous, the remaining segments covered with a pale golden-seri- 

 ceous pile. Length .18 inch. 



Hab. Mexico (Sumichrast). Five specimens. 



Trigona thoracica. 



$. — Fulvo-testaceous, opaque; vertex, flagellum above, meso- 

 thorax, spot on pleura, and base of second segment of abdomen 

 more or less, fuscous or black ; the pubescence on vertex and 

 thorax above fuscous, elsewhere it is pale; wings ^ellowisli sub- 



' The types of the species described in this paper are to be found iu the 

 coUectiou of the Americau Entomological Society. ' 




182 PROCKEDINOS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1SV8. 



livaline, slitrlitl^' dusky fit tips; ahdonu-n short, goldcn-soriccous. 

 Lenuth .22 incli. 



JInl). Mexico (Sumichrast). Two spccinions. 



Tetrapedia abdominalis. 



9. — Roliust, Maclv, llie abdomen ferriifriiious; sides of face, and 

 cheeks witli a whilisli pubescence; tij) of clypeus, and antcnn.i? 

 beneath brown; thorax l)road, smooth and shining, lateral angles 

 of prothorax ]irominent, subspinose ; tegula' jjiceous; wings fus- 

 cous, suliiiyaliue at tips, stigma and iiervures pale, the first recur- 

 rent nervure uniting witii the second transverse cubital nervure; 

 legs black, with llie pubescence black, that on tips of posterior 

 tibiie exteriorly tinged with ferruginous, tibial spurs black; abdo- 

 men short, brojid at l^ase, shining, the apex fringed with fulvous, 

 and the ventral segments with long white pubescence. Length 

 .30 inch. 



%, — Narrow line on sides of face, most of clypeus, short trans- 

 verse line above, labrum, mandibles except tips, line on scape 

 beneath, line on each side of prothorax above, postscutellura, and 

 last joint of tarsi, yellowish-white ; scutellum with short dense 

 black pubescence; wings paler than in 9; legs brown, simple, the 

 jjubescence black ; abdomen flavo-testaceous, shining, the apical 

 segments fringed with white pubescence. Length .25 inch. 



Ilah. Mexico (Sumichrast). Two specimens. This species re- 

 sembles calcarata Cress, in color, but has a shorter, broader, and 

 more compact form, the tibial spurs are black, and the wings dif- 

 ferently colored. 

 Bombus Bidingsii. 



9. — Black; vertex, thorax above and laterall.y, first abdominal 

 segment and basal middle of second more or less, clothed with 

 pale lemon-yellow pubescence; elsewhere the pubescence is black; 

 sometimes the j-ellow on base of second segment extends nearly 

 to the apex, and generally more or less divided posteriori}-, some- 

 times forming two spots ; clypeus smooth and polished, trans- 

 A'erseh" indented near tip ; wings stained with fuscous. Length 

 .70 inch. 



^. — Like the female, but smaller. Length .50-.60 inch. 



Hah. West Virginia. Numerous specimens collected b}' ^Ir. 

 James Ridings. Allied to separalus Cress., which, however, has 

 the pubescence of the head entirely black and that on basal middle 




18T8.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 183 



of second fibdomiiial segment more or less tinged with brown, and 

 never divided. 

 Eombus Morrisoni. 



?. Black; vertex, thorax above, and first, second, and basal 

 middle of third abdominal segments, clothed with a dense bright 

 lemon-yellow pubescence ; elsewdieie tlie pubescence is black ; 

 wings fuliginous, violaceous, much darker at base; clypeus 

 smooth, shining, finely and sparsely" punctured, depressed. Length 

 .80-.90 inch. 



^ . — Like the 9, but smaller, with the basal half of third seg- 

 ment sometimes yellow. Length .60-. 75 inch. 



Z. — Face narrow, eyes unusually large; face, vertex, occiput, 

 thorax above, posterior femora, and the first, second, third and 

 basal middle of fourth segments of abdomen, briglit lemon-yellow. 

 Length .65 inch. 



Hab. Colorado (Mr. H. K. Morrisdn). Numerous specimens. 

 This is a very handsome species, the 3'ellow being of a bright and 

 beautiful shade. 



Bombus appositus. 



9. — Black; face, vertex, occiput, anterior half of mesothorax, 

 continued for a short distance down on each side, clothed with a 

 verj' pale ochraceous, sometimes nearly white, pubescence; on the 

 scutellum and abdomen .above the pubescence is yellow, that on 

 abdomen generally having a browish shade in certain lights ; else- 

 where the .pubescence is black, except on venter, where the seg- 

 ments are fringed at apex vpith whitish hair; disk of mesothorax 

 smooth and polished, the pubescence on each side black ; clypeus. 

 smooth and polished, transversely depressed at tip ; the space 

 between the eyes and base of mandibles greater than usual ; w' ings 

 stained with fuscous, darker at base. Length .80-.85 inch. 



^ Like the female, but smaller. Length .65 inch. 



% . — Tlie pubescence on cheeks, sides of thorax and beneath, and 

 on legs, whitish, and that on abdomen above paler than in the 

 female. Length .70 inch. 



Hab. Colorado, New Mexico, Utah, Nevada. Eiglit specimens. 

 This is closely allied to borealis Kirby,but is readil}^ distinguished 

 by the pubescence of the head and thorax anteriorly being whitish, 

 and by that on abdomen above being entirely yellow. 




1S4 riiocr.EDiN'os of tiik academy of [1878. 



Bombus gelidus. 



9. — Jjhu'k, llic pulic'scencc long and loose; tluit on occii»iit, a 

 slight admixture on lace and vertex, anterior margin of meso- 

 tiiorax, sides of thorax, scutellnm, and first and fourth segments 

 of abdomen, pale yellow or ochraeeons; that on second and third 

 segments mostly fulvo-ferruginous, mixed with black on middle 

 and sides; elsewhere the pubescence is black; clypeus sparsely 

 punctured, labrum with fulvous hair; wings stained with fuscous, 

 darker at base and at tip of marginal cell ; tarsi 2)a!e sericeous, 

 fulvous beneath. Length .70 inch. 



Hah. Aleutian Islands (Henry Edwards). One specimen. The 

 pubescence of the abdomen is longer than usual, and the colors 

 arc not very decided. 



Bombus Edwardsii. 



9. — Black; vertex, thorax above except disk, sides of thorax, 

 first segment of abdomen, basal middle of second, apex of fourth, 

 and sides of fifth clothed with a lemon-j-ellow pul)escence; else- 

 where it is black except a slight admixture of yellow on the face 

 above antenna;; disk of mesothorax smooth and polished, with 

 black pubescence on each side; wings stained with fuscous, darker 

 at base. Length .70-.75 inch. 



^. — Black; middle of face, vertex more or less, mesothorax 

 anteriorl}', scutellnm, sides of thorax, femora beneath, first and 

 fourth segments of abdomen and venter, clothed with pale yellow 

 pubescence; elsewhere it is black; wings subhyaline, dusky on 

 apical margin ; tarsi more or less fulvous. Length .45 inch. 



% . — Short, robust, black ; head, thorax except a black band 

 between the wings, base of legs, first abdominal segment, basal 

 middle of second, and the fourth and fifth and venter, clothed 

 with long lemon-yellow pubescence; elsewhere it is black. Length 

 .40-.45 inch. 



Hah. California, Vancouver's Island (H. Edwards); Colorado 

 Morrison). Twelve specimens. 



Bombus Crotcliii. 



9. — Black; occiput, anterior part of thorax above as far back 

 as the tegulae, and the second segment of abdomen except basal 

 middle, clothed with a pale lemon-yellow pubescence, that on the 

 two apical segments fulvo-ferruginous ; elsewhere it is black ; 

 wings fuliginous, violaceons, black at base. Length .90 inch. 




1878.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 185 



Hah. California (Crotch). Three specimens. A handsome 

 species. 

 Bombus Couperi. 



9. — Short, robust, black; vertex, thorax anteriorlj-, laterally 

 and beneath, scutellum and two basal segments of abdomen, 

 clothed with an ochreous-3ellow pubescence, that on the two 

 apical segments fulvous yellow; elsewhere it is black; wings 

 stained with fuscous. Length .65 inch. 



Hah. Canada (Mr. Wm. Couper). Two specimens. The black 

 band between the wings is unusually broad. 



Bombus Futnami. 



9 . — Black ; thorax, except a black band between the wings, 

 two basal segments of abdomen above, lateral apical margin of 

 the third, and the venter, clothed with ochreous-3'ellow pubescence, 

 that on the fifth segment and apex of fourth fulvous-j'ellow; else- 

 where it is black, except a slight admixture of 3'ellow on the face, 

 vertex and femora beneath ; face long, clypeus smooth and 

 polished, the space between eyes and base of mandibles greater 

 than usual ; wings stained with fuscous. Length .75 inch. 



Hah. Colorado — Alpine. One specimen collected by my friend 

 Mr. J. Duncan Putnam in the month of July. 



Bombns oregonensis. 



%. — Black, clothed with a long dense pale lemon-yellow pubes- 

 cence, that on disk of mesothorax and scutellum, and on segments 

 3-5 of abdomen above, more or less black, and that on the two 

 apical segments fulvous-3'ellow; wings h^-aline, slightly dusky on 

 apical margin. Length .55 inch. 



Hab. Oregon (H. Edwards). One specimen. 



Bombus bifarius. 



9. — Black ; face, vertex, occiput, a broad band on thorax ante- 

 riorly extending a short distance down on each side, scutellum 

 except middle, base of femora beneath, sides of basal segment of 

 abdomen, fourth entirely, ai)ical margin of the fifth, and the venter 

 clothed with pale lemon-yellow pubescence, that on the second 

 segment, except basal middle, and the third entirely, of a beauti- 

 ful orange-fulvous ; elsewhere the pubescence is black, except on 

 posterior tibiae and tarsi where it is fulvous; wings pale fuligi- 

 nous on apical margin. Length .60-.70 inch. ' 

 13 




186 PROCEEDINOK OF THK ACADKMY OF [1878. 



5. — Like tlu' female, but miieh smaller, and with the yellow 

 pubeseence often much jialer. Lengtli .40-.45 ineli. 



Hab. Colorado, Vancouver's, IJritisli America. This is closely 

 allied to ternariu^. Say, but may be distinguished from that species 

 by the broader bhick band between the wings, by the yellow on 

 scutellum being divided into two spots, by tlie black pultescence 

 on basal middle of second abdominal segment, by the fifth seg- 

 ment being fringed at apex with yellow hair, and by the pubes- 

 cence on posterior tibiaj being fulvous. 



Bombus improbus. 



%. — Black, clothed with a short dense lemon-yellow pubescence, 

 that on disk of mesothorax more or less black, but not extending 

 laterally' to the wings; face very narrow, the eyes being unusually 

 large ; wings stained with yellovvish fuscous ; legs clothed with 

 black pubescence, that on femora more or less yellow, basal joint 

 of posterior tarsi fringed behind with pale hair; abdomen with the 

 fourth and fifth segments black, more or less fringed at apex with 

 yellow, apical segments with fulvous-yellow pubescence. Length 

 .60-.10 inch. 



Hab. Colorado (Morrison). Two specimens. This has the 

 same form as the % of peiuisylvanicus De Geer. 



Bombus mixtus. 



9. — Black; head and thorax clothed with pale 3'ellow pubes- 

 cence, intermixed with black on face, vertex and thorax above; 

 between the wings a broad band of black pubescence slightly 

 intermixed with yellow on the sides; wings subhyaline, dusky on 

 a[)ical margin ; legs clothed with black pubescence, that on femora 

 beneath yellowish, and that on posterior tibiiB intermixed with 

 fulvous; abdomen with the first, second, and apical segments 

 clothed with pale jellow pubescence, that on sides of second and 

 base of third black, that on apex of third, the fourth and fifth ful- 

 vous, shading into yellow laterall}', and that on venter 3'ellowish. 

 Length .55 inch. 



$. — Like the female, but smaller. Length .40 inch, 

 Hab. Colorado (Morrison). Three specimens. The black band 

 between the wings is not distinctly defined, the yellow pubescence 

 on anterior part of mesothorax being considerably intermixed with 

 black. 




1878.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 187 



Bombus juztns. 



9. — Black ; head, thorax, and two basal segments of abdomen 

 clothed with a dense lemon-j^ellow pubescence, that on sides of 

 vertex mixed with black; between the wings a distinct well-defined 

 band of black pubescence ; wings fuliginous on apical margin ; 

 legs with black pubescence, that on femora beneath j'^ellow, and 

 that on tibiffi at tips moi*e or less fulvous, tarsi fulvo-sericeous ; 

 third and fourth segments of abdomen clothed witii dense orange 

 fulvous pubescence, yellow on extreme sides and on venter; two 

 apical segments black. Length .60 inch. 



Hah. Colorado (Morrison). Four specimens. This is allied to 

 jlavifrons Cress., but readily distinguished by the black band 

 between the wings being well-defined, and by the yellow pubes- 

 cence on mesothorax anteriorly and on scutelhim not being inter- 

 mixed with black as it is \n Jiavifrons. 



Bombus vancouverensis. 



%. — Black; head, thorax, and legs clothed with lemon-j'ellow 

 pubescence, slightly mixed with black on sides of face and vertex; 

 between the wings a tolerably well-defined band of black pubes- 

 cence; wings hyaline, faintl}' dusky on apical margin; tarsi pale 

 brown; abdomen with the first, basal middle of second and fourth 

 segments and venter with yellow pubescence, that on sides of 

 second and the third segments fulvous, and that on apical seg- 

 ments black, sometimes intermixed with yellow on apical margin 

 and sides; occasionally there is a patch of black pubescence on 

 sides of second segment. Length .45-.50 inch. 



Hah. Vancouver's Island (H. Edwards). Ten specimens. 



Bombus mexicanus. 



9. — Black, clothed with jet black pubescence; wings uniformly 

 dark fuscous, with a violaceous reflection ; posterior tibise and 

 tips of tarsi brown, basal joint of the later fulvo-fuscous within; 

 third segment of abdomen clothed with a yellow pubescence. 

 Length .90 inch. 



^. — Like the female, but smaller. Length .65 inch. 



Hah. Mexico (Sumichrast). Twelve specimens. A handsome 

 species. 

 Antbophora capistrata, 



% . — Black ; head, thorax, and basal segment of abdomen clotfied 

 with dense ochraceous pubescence, that on sides of face, vertex. 




188 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1878. 



and mesothorax slightly mixed with black, that on cheeks and 

 thorax heneath pale oehraceous ; clypens (excej)! a hroad trans- 

 verse l)lack band at ))ase, narrowed laterally, and narrow apical 

 margin), a transverse line above clypeus, sides of face extending 

 narrowly half way up the orbits, labruu) except a black spot on 

 each side at base, spot on base of mandibles, and scape beneath, 

 while; wings faintly dusky on apical margin; legs clothed with 

 pale ochraceous pubescence, that on basal joint of posterior tarsi 

 within black, tips of tarsi pale fulvous, intermediate tarsi slender, 

 simple, basal joint of posterior pair robust, simple; abdomen 

 black, with a slight bluish reflection, apical margin of segments 

 2-C> ilull whitish, with a rather narrow even band of appressed 

 whitish pubescence, apical segment bilobate at tip ; extreme sides 

 of venter with long whitish pubescence. I/ength .50 inch. 



Hah. Texas (Belfrage). Two specimens. In this and all the 

 following species described under this genus, the second submar- 

 ginal cell of anterior wings is, unless otherwise mentioned, sub- 

 triangular and receives the first recurrent nervure at or about the 

 middle. 



Anthophora urbana. 



5. — Black; clothed with a whitish pubescence, that on vertex 

 and thorax above tinged with ochraceous and mixed with black ; 

 clypeus confluently punctured and depressed at tip ; wings hya- 

 line, faintly dusky on apical margin ; legs with while pubescence 

 long on the femora, tip of basal joint of posterior tarsi with a tuft 

 of black hair, the pubescence on the inside fuscous; first segment 

 of abdomen with pale ochraceous pubescence, apical margin of 

 segments 2-4 dull whitish, each with a band of appressed white 

 pubescence, apical segment with black pubescence, fringed on 

 each side with white hair. Length .45-.50 inch, 



%. — Sides of face, clypeus, line above, labrura, base of mandi- 

 bles, and scape beneath white; tarsi slender and simple, the pubes- 

 cence on basal joint within yellowish, tips of tarsi pale fulvous ; 

 the pubescence on vertex and thorax not mixed with black as in 

 the 9. Length .40-.45 inch. 



Hah. Colorado, Utah, California, Twelve specimens, 



Anthophora Erugii. 



?, — Black; head clothed with a whitish pubescence, slightly 

 mixed with black on the vertex; thorax clothed with short black 




1878.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 189 



pubescence, that on scutellnm and metathorax rufo-ferruglnous; 

 wings slightly smoky, subiridescent ; legs black, clothed with 

 black pubescence, long on femora and white on coxae and trochan- 

 ters, four anterior tibioe above pale, a small silvery white spot on 

 tip of posterior femora above ; abdomen with a slight bluish 

 iridescence, basal segment clothed with a fulvous pubescence, 

 apical margin of segments 1-4 narrowly yellowish-white, extreme 

 sides of the segments with a patch of white pubescence, that on 

 apical segment black; ventral segments fringed with white hair. 

 Length .45 inch, 



■J) — Clypeus, line above, sides of face, labrum except two spots 

 at base, scape beneath, and narrow apical margin of abdominal 

 segments 1-5 white; legs rufo-piceous, with short black pubes- 

 cence, that on coxae, and tips of four anterior tibiae white; other- 

 wise as in ?. Length .45 inch. 



Hab. Porto Rico (Mr. Leopold Krug). Two specimens. This 

 is closely allied to tricolor Fab. 



Anthophora affabilis. 



9 . — Black ; head, thorax, legs, and basal segment of abdomen 

 clothed with a dense cinereous pubescence, that on vertex tinged 

 with ochraceous and that on thorax above sliglitly so; wings 

 faintl}^ dusky; tibiae and basal joint of the tarsi within clothed 

 with black pubescence, that on the latter above black, more or less 

 mixed with white at base ; abdomen smooth and shining, with a 

 slight bluish iridescence, apical margin of second and third seg- 

 ments narrowlj'^ fringed with white pubescence, fourth and fifth 

 segments with sparse long white hair, more dense on apex of fifth 

 segment which has a patch of black pubescence on apical middle ; 

 ventral segments fringed with long white pubescence. Length 

 .60-.65 inch. 



% — Closely resembles the 9 ; sides of face, cl^^peus, line above, 

 labrum except two black dots at base, and scape beneath, yellow- 

 ish-white ; intermediate tarsi long and slender, terminal joint 

 fringed laterally with black hair ; segments 2-6 fringed at apex 

 with white pubescence, broadly so on 5 and 6; otherwise as iu J. 

 Length .60 inch. 



Hab. Texas (Belfrage). Three specimens. 

 Anthophora simillima. 



%. — Black; head, thorax, legs, and base of abdomen cloflied 

 with a long whitish cinereous pubescence, that on vertex and 




100 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [lS78. 



thorax above more or less mixed with blaek; a sulilanceohite 

 mark on eacii side of the face, clypeus except two spots at base, 

 hiltruin and scape l^eneatii pale yellow or yellowish-white ; wings 

 hyaline, faintly dusky on a|)ical margin; legs clothed above with 

 white pubescence, tiiat beiieatli except on coxai, blaek, niid.lle 

 joints of tarsi fulvous, intermediate pair long and slender, ciliated 

 with long fulvous pubescence, the first and last joints black, the 

 latter ciliated laterally with l)lack hair, posterior legs simple; 

 abdomen with the two basal segments clothed with whitish cine- 

 reous pubescence, the two apical segments more or less silvery 

 cinereous, third, fourth, and fifth segments clothed with black 

 pubescence, slightly mixed w'ith pale on apical margin; seventh 

 segment subl)identate at tip. Length .50 inch. 



Hah. Colorado (Morrison). Four specimens. Tliis is closely 

 allied to ursina Cress., the form of the legs being the same, 

 especially that of the intermediate tarsi. 



Anthophora pacifica. 



%. — IJlack, clothed with a cinereous pubescence, more or less 

 intermixed with black, especially on thorax above; sublanceolate 

 mark on sides of face, clj'peus except two spots at base, labrum 

 except two spots at base, and scape beneath pale yellow; wings 

 subhj'aline ; legs clothed with black pubescence, ver^' long on 

 femora beneath, that on coxk and trochanters long and white, 

 tips of tibiae with short white pubescence, the tarsi friugcd with 

 long white hair, intermediate tarsi long and very slender, fringed 

 behind with long white hair, intermixed with black on basal joint; 

 abdomen clothed with long cinereous pubescence, not concealing 

 the surface, that on segments 2-5 mostly- black, generall}' inter- 

 mixed with cinereous on apical margin, but not sutiiciently dense 

 to form bands. Length .60 inch. 



Eah. California (11. Edwards). One specimen. A ver^^ robust 

 species, and easily recognized by the intermediate tarsi being 

 unusually slender and densely ciliated with long white pubescence. 



Anthophora Edwardsii. 



9. — Black; head, thorax, legs, and two basal segments of 

 abdomen clothed with cinereous pubescence, intermixed with 

 black on vertex and thorax above; wings hyaline, dusky on 

 apical margin ; tibiae and tarsi within and tip of basal joint of 

 posterior tarsi, with black pubescence ; third and fourth segments 




1878.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 191 



of abdomen shining, clotlied with a very short black pubescence, 

 the apical margin with a more or less interrupted fringe of whitish 

 hair; extreme sides of abdomen, apex of fifth segment except 

 middle and sides of ventral segments clothed with long white 

 pubescence. Length .50 inch. 



%. — Resembles the 9; lanceolate mark on sides of face, clypeus 

 except lateral suture, labrum except two spots at base, and scape 

 beneath yellow or yellowish-white; intermediate tarsi long, slender, 

 simple, basal joint of posterior pair with a short, stout tooth on 

 inner edge; abdominal segments 1,2, and 6 with cinereous pubes- 

 cence, sometimes that on .3-5, which is generally black, is more 

 or less intermixed with cinereous. Length .50 inch. 



Hab. California, Nevada (H. Edwards). Seven specimens. 

 Anthophora mucida. 



9 . — Black, clothed with an ochrea-cinereous pubescence, very 

 dense on thorax; wings subliyaline, second submarginal cell 

 subquadrate, the first recurrent nervure uniting with the second 

 transverse cubital nervure ; the pubescence on basal joint of the 

 tarsi mostly black; the pubescence on base, sides, and apex of 

 abdomen long, that on third, fourth, and fifth segments more or 

 less black, tiie fifth segment having a fringe of dense ochraceous 

 pubescence at tip ; ventral segment fringed with long pale pubes- 

 cence. Length .55 inch. 



Hab. Colorado (Morrison). One specimen. This species re- 

 sembles Udwardsii^ but is easily separated by the form of the 

 second submarginal cell which is normal in that species, beino- 

 subtriangular in shape and receiving the recurrent nervure at 

 about the middle. 



Authophora miserabilis. 



%. — Black; the entire insect clothed with a cinereous pubes- 

 cence, intermixed with black on vertex and thorax above, that on 

 the abdomen above shorter and thin, not concealing the surface; 

 narrow line on sides of face, hooked beneath, and a large subtre- 

 foil mark on clypeus, j^ellowish-white ; antennje entirely black ; 

 wings hyaline, second submarginal cell narrow, subquadrate, 

 receiving the first recurrent nervure at the tip and very nearly 

 uniting with the second transverse cubital nervure; legs slender 

 and simple. Length .50 inch. 



Hab. California (H. Edwards). One specimen. ' 




192 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1878. 



Anthophora Morrisoni. 



%. — IJliicU; la-ad, tliornx, Io<j;.s, and l»as:il segment of ulxloinen 

 clotlied with a ilenso ocliraceous pubescence, nearly white on 

 clieeks and thorax beneath, that on thorax above sometimes 

 fulvo-ochiaeeous; sides of face, clypeiis except a dot on each side, 

 a transverse line above, and the scape beneath wliite; wint^s hya- 

 line, second submurginal cell snbquadrate, being slightly narrowed 

 above, and receiving the first recurrent nervure near tiie tip; legs 

 slender and simple, the pubescence on posterior legs mostly black; 

 abdomen shining black, the first segment clothed with ocliraceous 

 pubescence, and the apical segment has a more or less conspicuous 

 silver}' pile. Length ,50 inch. 



Ilab. Colorado (Morrison). Four specimens. 



Anthophora Crotchii. 



%. — IJlack ; head, thorax, legs, and base of abdomen (;lotIied 

 with a fulvo-ochraceous pubescence; sides of face, clypeus, lal)rum, 

 mandibles except tips, and scape beneath, yellow; wings hyaline, 

 slightly dusky at tips ; intermediate tarsi very long and slender, 

 pale brown, fringed with long pale hair, the apical or claw joint 

 black, and ciliated laterally with long dense black hair, like a 

 feather; abdomen with short black pubescence, except on the two 

 basal segments where it is ocliraceous, and longer on the first, 

 apical segment fringed with white pubescence. Length .50 inch. 



Hab. California (Crotch). One specimen. The apical joint of 

 intermediate tarsi is more broadl}' ciliated than any species known 

 to me. 



Melissodes caliginosa. 



9 .—Black, opaque; head and thorax clothed with a short dense 

 black j)ubescence ; face, clypeus, sometimes a tuft l)ehind ocelli, 

 sometimes the anterior margin of mesothorax, its lateral and 

 posterior margins narrowly and the metathorax more or less, 

 clothed with dense ocliraceous pubescence, sometimes that on the 

 thorax is entirel}^ black; mandibles witii a fulvous stripe or spot 

 towards tips ; wings fuscous, with a violaceous reflection, nervures 

 black, second submarginal cell nearly as long as first, third broadly 

 truncate at tip and narrowed one-half towards marginal ; legs 

 clothed with short black or fuscous pubescence, the posterior 

 lib'nxi with long dense fulvous pubescence, that on basal joint of 

 their tarsi fuscous; abdomen witli the three basal segments nude, 




1878.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 193 



the two apical segments clothed with black or fuscous pubescence, 

 sometimes with a mixture of pale on the sides; in one specimen 

 there is an indistinct oblique line of pale pubescence on each side 

 of third segment and a narrow line on lateral ai)ical margin of 

 fourth segment; venter entirely black. Length .60 inch. 



% . — Pubescence of head, thorax above and basal segment of 

 abdomen bright ochraceous ; clypeus, labrnm, and spot on man- 

 dibles, yellow; antennae as long as head and thorax, black, rufo- 

 piceous beneath, third joint about one-third the length of fourth ; 

 disk of mesothorax and scutellum above, and pleura at sides and 

 beneath, clothed with black pubescence, a slight mixture of pale 

 pubescence beneath tegulae ; teguljE dull testaceous ; wings pale 

 fuscous ; legs clothed with short black pubescence, that on ante- 

 rior tibiae and tarsi, and all the coxje, golden ochraceous, and that 

 on tips of four posterior tibiae ochraceous, tips of tarsi ferrugi- 

 nous, tibial spurs pale, intermediate tarsi long and rather slender; 

 line at extreme base of second segment and a short oblique line 

 on each side of third segment of short dense ochraceous pul)es- 

 cence, extreme sides of sixth segment with a short acute spine, tip 

 of apical segment golden above; venter shining black, piceous at 

 base. Length .55 inch. 



Hab. Georgia (Morrison, Ridings). Ten specimens. The pubes- 

 cence on mesothorax of 9 is sometimes entirely black. 



Melissodes morosa. 



?. — Black; head clothed with ochraceous pubescence which is 

 mixed with black on vertex and occiput; thorax clothed with a 

 short dense black pubescence, that on prothorax above and a slight 

 admixture on metathorax ochraceous; disk of mesothorax nude, 

 sparsely punctured; wings short, subhyaline, nervures fuscous, 

 second submarginal cell shorter than first, second subtruncate at 

 apex and narrowed nearly two-thirds towards marginal ; legs 

 clothed with short black pubescence, the posterior tibije and tarsi 

 with long dense j-ellow pubescence, which on the tarsi within is 

 fuscous ; abdomen clothed with black pubescence, that on lateral 

 margin of basal segment ochraceous; narrow basal margin of 

 second segment, a narrow suboblique line on each side a little 

 behind the middle, and broad ^apical margin of third and fourth 

 segments, coA'ered with a dense appressed ochraceous pile; two 

 apical segments fringed with fuscous pubescence; venter' with 




lot PROOKRDINOH OF TUK ACADKMY OP [1H78. 



black pijljoscenrc, fipicnl margin of tlic scgincntH (iiill testaceous. 

 Leii^Mi .r)0 inch. 



Jfah. Mexico (Siiiniclirast). One Hpcciiiicii. 



MeliBBodes montezuma. 



9. — l>lufk, Hliiniiif^; face, clyp'HH, and Ial»niin with Mhr>it palo 

 piil)('Hc(Mico slij^htly Jtiixcd with Mack, tli;it on vcitcfx and occiput 

 lon;^ !iiid Ithick, iiiid on (;li(!ckH lon;^ :ind white; tips of ni!iridil)le.s 

 fulvous; anterior lialf of tn(!Sotiiorax and tlu; pl(Miia latcrnliy jind 

 l)eii(!alii clothed with dcjiise l>Iack piilfcseence, that on inesotiiorax 

 posterioi'ly, BcntclIiitM, and rnetntliomx fidvons; tej^nlie fnlvo-tes- 

 taeeoiiR ; winj^s sul)liyaline, dusky at tips, !ier\iires lilaek, seeon<l 

 Hni)inar<jjinal cell small, narif)W, about one-third the length of first, 

 the first recurrent nervure uniting with the seconrl transver.se 

 euhital nervure, third suhmarginal broadly rounded at tip and 

 narrowed one-third towards maririnal; pul)eseenee of legs entirely 

 ])lack, tips of tarsi ferruginous; abdomen shining, basal segment 

 with a long thin jonle fidvous pulieseence, and at sides of two 

 apical segments a tuft of whitish pubescence; venter fringed 

 lat(!rally and at apex of segm(;nts with pale pubescence, liCngth 

 .50 incli. 



■Jj . — Liilirum whitish; jnitcMina; nitiicr longer tlinn the body, 

 robust, i)l;ick, n.'igelbini dull fidvous bclieath, third joint very short 

 about e(|ual with the second, the fourth twice as long as the three 

 b!is;d joints taken together; the black pubescence on mesothorax 

 .•interiorly narrower thnn in 9, femora fringed with long whitish 

 pubescence; apex of abdomen silvery sericeous in cerlain lights, 

 apex Itidentate; venter iirown. Tjerigth .45 inch. 



Jfdh. M(!xico (Siimieliiast). Four specimens. 



KelisBodes dubitata. 



?. — Black; h(!ad, thorax, legs, and basrd segment of !il)donK'n 

 clothed with ochraceous ; clypeus confliienlly punctured, opaque; 

 disk of mesothorax almost nude, sparsely punctured ; tegulne didl 

 testaceous; wings fusco-hyaline, nervures fuscous, second sub- 

 marginal cell one half the length of first, third broadly truncate 

 at tip, narrowed nearly two-thirds towards marginal ; tips of tarsi 

 dull ferruginous; abdomen shining black, the pale pubescence on 

 l)asal segment long and thin, apical segments with short Id.'ick 

 pul)escenee, that on apex of fifth and sixth seg)nents sometimes 

 fuscous. Length ,55-.(;0 inch. 




18T8.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 195 



%. — Cljpeus, labrura, and spot on base of mandibles, j-ellowish; 

 antennae as long as head and thorax, fulvous, brown above, the 

 third joint about one-fourth the length of fourth ; legs with mixed 

 fuscous and ochraceous pubescence, tarsi with black hair, apical 

 joints ferruginous; base and sides of two basal segments of abdo- 

 men and extreme sides of third segment with whitish pubescence, 

 an indistinct oblique line of pale fuscous pubescence on each side 

 of third and fourth segments ; sixth segment with an acute tooth 

 on each extreme side. Length .50 inch. 



Hab. Georgia (Eidings, Morrison). Nine specimens. The 9 of 

 this species closel}' resembles that of desponsa Smith, which, how- 

 ever, has the pubescence of thorax beneath and of four anterior 

 legs entirel}' black. 



Melissodes nigrifrons. 



9. — Small, robust, black, clothed with black pubescence, that 

 on occiput, thorax above, and extreme base of abdomen pale och- 

 raceous ; antennae very sliort, flagellum subtestaceous beneath; a 

 small patch of pale ochraceous pubescence beneath teguUie, which 

 is piceous; wings hyaline, nervures black; second submarginal 

 cell small, less than half tlie length of first, receiving the first re- 

 current nervure very near the apex, third submarginal about tliree 

 times longer than second, rounded at tip and narrowed one-half 

 towards marginal; pubescence of legs entirely black; abdomen 

 shining, the pubescence, except on basal segment, short and black. 

 Length .40 inch. 



Hab. California (Crotch). Three specimens. 

 Melissodes Edwardsii. 



% — Black; head, thorax, legs, and base of abdomen clothed 

 with a dense fulvo-ochraceous pubescence, which is paler on sides 

 and beneath; clypeus and labrum yellowish; antennae reaching 

 beyond first abdominal segment, entirely black, crenulated toward 

 tips, tiiird joint shorter than first; wings hyaline, nervures fuscous, 

 second submarginal cell more than half the length of first, the third 

 broadly truncate at tip and then suddenly narrowed one-half 

 towartls marginal; tarsi long and slender, especially the interme- 

 diate pair, simple, the basal joint of posterior pair fringed with 

 long pale hair ; abdomen shining, basal segment densely clotlied 

 with a long ochraceous pubescence, which extends more or less 

 on base and sides of second segment; remaining segments above 




100 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1878. 



clot lied witii a short l)lack puliesccMice, longer at sides and at tip; 

 soim-times the fodrlh and fifth segments liave each a narrow, in- 

 distinct, snl)apical fascia of white pubescence; venter clothed witii 

 pale pubescence at extreme sides of basal segments. Length 

 .50-.r)5 inch. 



Hah. Calironiia (II. iMlwards). .Six specimens. 



Melissodes califoruica. 



% . — lilack ; head, thorax, legs, and base of abdomen denscl}' 

 clothed with a pale yellovvish-white pubescence; cl3i)eus and 

 labrum 3'ellow ; antennaj reaching to tip of first abdominal seg- 

 ment, entirely black, the apical joints subcrenulated, third joint 

 long, attenuated towards base, rather longer than first and second 

 taken together, joints of theflagellum long and flattened and sub- 

 carinate laterally; tegulje dull testaceous ; wings hyaline, nervures 

 fuscous, second submarginal cell half the length of first, third 

 shorter than first, subtruncate at tip, and narrowed less than one- 

 half towards marginal; intermediate tibite dilated and subdentate 

 beneath, their tarsi long and slender, basal joint long, black, 

 slightly curved, dilated near base beneath and attenuated to tip, 

 and fringed beneath with dense fulvous hair, remaining joints 

 elongate, ferruginous; basal joint of posterior tarsi narrow, flat, 

 black, fringed beneath with short and at tip with long fulvous 

 hair, at the tip within a slender incurved acute tooth, apical joints 

 ferruginous ; abdomen shining black, two basal segments clothed 

 with pale yellowish pubescence, long on first segment, remaining 

 segments and venter with short black pubescence, that on apex 

 above more or less fuscous. Lengtii .56 inch. 



Hab. California (H. Edwards). One specimen. Closely i*e- 

 sembles Edivardsii, but easily separated by the longer tliird joint 

 of antenufe, and differently formed intermediate tibiae and tarsi. 



Melissodes fulvitarsis. 



%. — Black; head, thorax, legs, and base of abdomen clothed 

 with a dense whitish pubescence, more or less tinged with ochra- 

 ceous above; clypeus and labrum pale yellow, shining ; antennae 

 longer than head and thorax, subcrenulated, third joint longer 

 than first, sometimes pale, subclavate ; wings h3'aline, nervures 

 fuscous, second submarginal cell quadrate, half the length of first, 

 the third as long as first, broadl}' truncate at tip, and narrowed 

 uearlj^ one-half towards marginal ; legs clothed with white pubes- 




ISTS.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 197 



cence, tarsi fulvous, the basal joint of posterior pair fringed with 

 long yellowish hair; intermediate tibiae short, dilated and toothed 

 beneath towards base and witli a short acute spine at tip above, 

 almost hidden by the dense white pubescence, their tarsi long and 

 slender, the basal joint subfusiform, more strongly narrowed 

 towards tip, which is slightly dilated and produced behind into a 

 prominent, somewhat curved subacute tooth, remaining joints long 

 and slender; abdomen shining at tip, two basal segments with 

 dense ochraceous pubescence, shorter and paler on second seg- 

 ment, remaining segments with black pubescence, interspersed 

 with long scattering pale hair, sixth segment generally with a 

 narrow fringe of whitish pubescence ; sometimes segments 3-6 

 have each an indistinct subapical fascia of cinereous pubescence, 

 more distinct when viewed in certain lights; venter with mixed 

 pale and black pubescence. Length .50 inch. 



Hah. Colorado (Morrison). Six specimens. Allied to califor- 

 nica, but smaller, and easily separated by the form of the inter- 

 mediate tarsi. 

 Melissodes frater. 



%. — Black; head and thorax clothed with a dense cinereous 

 pubescence, more or less tinged with ochraceous above and pale 

 beneath; clypeus and labrura yellow; antennae three-fourths the 

 length of the body, entirely black, crenulated towards apex, third 

 joint very short, about twice the length of second; wings hyaline, 

 with fuscous nervures, second submarginal cell large, two-thirds 

 the length of first, the third broadly truncate at tip and narrowed 

 more than one-half towards marginal ; legs thickly clothed with 

 white pubescence, tarsi fulvous at tips, clothed at base beneath 

 with dense golden hair, the posterior pair fringed with long pale 

 hair, intermediate legs simple, the basal joint of their tarsi long 

 and narrow; abdomen rather shining, with a changeable pale sub- 

 pruinose pile, first and second segments with a thin pale pubes- 

 cence, longer on tlie first, segments 3-6 each with a more or less 

 distinct fascia of whitish pubescence, more dense 5 and 6, sides 

 of apical segments with long pale hair; venter piceous, almost 

 nude. Length .50 inch. 



Hab. Colorado (Morrison). Six specimens. This is closely 

 allied to honesta Cress., from Texas, which has the abdomen dis- 

 tinctly banded, the labrum black, and the antennae short(fr, with 

 the third joint longer than in the present species. 




108 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1878. 



MelisBOdes lepida. 



%. — Hlack; head, thorax, h\i?s, and 1)aso of abdomen ch>thed 

 with an ochraceoiis piihesccncc, that on tlujrax above more or less 

 tinijed with fulvous, and very dense; clypeus and laltiiun pale 

 jelhnv; antenn.x' rather longer than head and thorax, entirely 

 black, subcrenulated towards tip and flattened and subcarinatc 

 laterally, third joint three times longer than second and less than 

 half the length of fourth ; wings hyaline, with i)ale fuscous nervures, 

 second snl)marginal cell half the length of first, receiving the re- 

 current nervure very near the tip, the third broadly subtruncate 

 at tip and narrowed nearly one-half towards marginal ; tarsi ex- 

 cei)t base fulvous, intermediate pair long and very slender, the 

 basal joint narrowed to tip, slightly twisted and curved, basal 

 joint of posterior pair fringed with long yellowish hair; abdomen 

 shining, two basal segments clothed with pale yellow pubescence, 

 short and paler on the second, segments 2-0 each with a narrow, 

 even, apical fringe of pale cinereous pubescence, sides of apical 

 segments with a few long whitish hair; venter piceous, almost 

 nude. Length .45 inch. 



Hab. Texas (B(!lfrage) ; Colorado (Morrison). Three specimens. 

 Also closel3' allied to honesta, but smaller and with differently 

 formed intermediate tarsi. 



Uelissodes epeciosa. 



9. — Large, black; face with a short griseous pubescence, occi- 

 put and thorax with a dense fulvo-ochraceous pubescence; clypeus 

 coarsely and confluentlj^ punctured; mandibles fulvous near tips; 

 tegulffi testaceous; wings dusky on apical margins, nervures pale 

 fuscous, second submarginal cell three-fourths the length of first, 

 the third broadly rounded at tip and narrowed one-half towards 

 the marginal; legs clothed with fulvo-ochraceous pubescence, paler 

 and sparse on femora, posterior til)iae and base of tarsi with long 

 dense fulvous hair; basal segment of abdomen clothed with an 

 erect pale ochraceous pubescence, segments 2-4 each with a broad 

 even fascia of dense appressed white or cinereous pile, apical mar- 

 gin of segments 1-3 smooth and shining, that of 5 fringed with 

 pale pubescence tinged with fuscous medially, apical segment with 

 fuscous pubescence, paler laterall}' ; venter piceous, apical margin 

 of the segments rufo-testaceous and fringed with pale fuscous 

 hair, whitish laterally. Length .G0-.70 inch. 




1878.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 199 



Hah. Colorado (Ridings, Morrison). Five specimens. A very 

 handsome species, having the abdominal fasciie broad and distinct. 



Melissodes dilecta. 



%. — Black; head, thorax, and base of abdomen clothed with a 

 dense ochraceous pubescence, strongly tinged with yellow above; 

 cl^qjeus and labrum jellowish-white; tips of mandibles pale; an- 

 tennae two-thirds the length of body, entirely black, subcreuulated 

 towards tip, third joint about three times the length of second; 

 wings slightl}- tinged with yellowish, nervures })ale fuscous, second 

 submarginal cell quadrate, more than half the length of first, the 

 third broadly truncate at tip and narrowed al>out one-half towards 

 marginal ; legs clotlied with pale ochraceous pubescence, dense 

 and fulvous on base of tarsi beneath; intermediate tarsi slender, 

 simple, the basal joint slightl^^ curved, posterior pair fringed with 

 long pale 3'ellowish hair; first segment of abdomen clothed with 

 a long j'ellow pubescence, remaining segments witb a very short 

 cinereous pile, becoming more dense before apex, and forming a 

 more or less distinct white band, and interspersed with longer 

 mixed pale and black scattering hairs ; venter brown, the sides of 

 the segments fringed with pale pubescence. Length .45-.50 inch. 



Hab. Texas (Belfrage); Colorado (Ridings). Three specimens. 

 This may be the % of sjieciosa. 

 Melissodes compta. 



9. — Black; head clothed with a dense cinereous pubescence; 

 clypeus finely and confluently punctured; apical half of mandibles 

 fulvous; thorax and basal segment of abdomen with a short 

 dense fulvous pubescence, very dense on thorax, entirely conceal- 

 ing the surface; tegulaj pale fulvous; wings pale fuliginous, with 

 a violaceous reflection, nervures black, second submarginal cell 

 about half the length of first, the third broadly rounded at tip, 

 and narrowed one half towards marginal ; legs clothed with dark 

 fulvous pubescence, black on basal joint of anterior tarsi ; abdo- 

 men with four narrow fasciae of dense appressed white pubescence, 

 two on second segment, and one each on third and fourth, that 

 on the latter dilated laterally, two apical segments and venter 

 clothed with black pubescence. Length .70 inch. 



%, — Clypeus, labrum, and spot at base of mandibles yellowish- 

 white; antennae scarcely as long as head and thorax, black,^pical 

 joint long, acuminate and acute at tip, three basal joints brownish, 




200 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1818. 



pubescent, tlie third chivate, about equal in length with the fourth; 

 thorax as in 9; wings sul)hyaline, fuliginous and subviolaceous 

 on apical margin ; legs clotlied with fulvous pubescence, tarsi 

 simple and sul)rol)ust; tiie four white bands on abdomen less 

 distinct, subinterrupted, and sometimes subobsolete ; sides of 

 sixth segment with a short acute tooth. Length .55 inch. 



Hab. Georgia (Morrison). Three specimens. A very pretty 

 species. The % anteunje are acutely pointed at tip. 



Melissodes georgica. 



% . — Black ; head, thorax, and base of first segment of aVidomen 

 clothed with a short dense ochraceous i)ubescence; clypeus, labrura, 

 and base of mandibles yellovv,the latter fulvous near tips ; antennae 

 as long as head and thorax, third joint twice the length of second, 

 the flagellum dull fulvous beneath; wings tinged with yellowish, 

 the apical margin dusky and subviolaceous, nervures fuscous, 

 second submarginal cell large, three-fourths the lengtli of first, the 

 third rounded at tip and narrowed one-half towards marginal ; 

 legs clothed with dull ochraceous pubescence, that on four poste- 

 rior tibise and tarsi fuscous or black, extreme tips of their tibiae 

 with a tuft of whitish pubescence, tarsi simple, subrobust, tips 

 dull ferruginous; apex of abdomen with rather long black pubes- 

 cence, the ochraceous pubescence on base of first segment extends 

 narrowly down on the sides of second and third segments; a 

 narrow band at base of second segment and a broader band on 

 third and fourtii, slightly oblique laterally and subinterrupted 

 mediall}' of appressed white pubescence ; there is a slight indica- 

 tion of an oblique line of pale pubescence on sides of second seg- 

 ment; a short tooth on each side of sixth segment nearly concealed 

 by the pubescence. Length .55 inch. 



Hah. Georgia (Morrison). One specimen. This resembles the 

 % of compar^ but is separated at once b}' the normal shape of the 

 antennse and the color of the pubescence on posterior legs. 



Melissodes coloradensis. 



9. — Black ; head, thorax, and legs clothed with a bright fulvous 

 pubescence, most dense on thorax and long and dense on posterior 

 legs; clypeus finelj'^ and confluently punctured; tips of mandibles 

 and flagellum beneath fulvous; disk of mesothorax and scutcllum 

 shining, strongly punctured, sparsely clothed with a short l)lack 

 pubescence ; tegulse piceous ; wings dusk^-, fuliginous on apical 




1878.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 201 



margin, nervures fuscons or black, second submarginal cell nearly 

 as long as tlie first, the third rounded at apex and narrowed two- 

 thirds towards marginal ; the pubescence on four anterior tarsi 

 and on posterior pair within is fuscous or black; abdomen shining, 

 extreme base thinly clothed with a yellowish pul)escence, extreme 

 base of third segment occasionally with a whitish band, two spots 

 or siiort lines on sides of second segment, a narrow^ band near 

 apex of third, slightlj' interrupted medially and a broad band at 

 tip of fourth segment, of short appressed pale fulvous pubescence; 

 sides of apical segments and ventral segments fringed with yellow 

 pubescence. Length .55 inch. 



%. — Closely resembles the 9; clj'peus, labrum, and spot at base 

 of mandibles, yellow ; antennaa rather longer than head and thorax, 

 third joint a little longer than second, flagellum i)ale fulvous or 

 3'ellow beneath; the black pubescence on disk of mesothorax and 

 scutellum more dense; third submarginal cell narrowed three- 

 fourths towards marginal ; pubescence on legs entirely bright 

 fulvous or yellow, tarsi simple, tips ferruginous ; base and sides 

 of first segment of abdomen, sides of second and a short lateral 

 subapical line, a band on third, interrupted medially, and a band 

 on fourth and fifth, all of dense ochraceous pubescence; sixth 

 and seventh segments each with a short tooth on extreme sides ; 

 ventral segments fringed with ochraceous or j-ellow hair. Length 

 .55 inch. 



Hub. Colorado (Ridings, Morrison). Ten specimens. 



Melissodes petulca, 



9. — Black; head clothed with short dense cinereous pubescence, ■ 

 that on occiput fulvous; clypeus finely punctured; mandibles with 

 a pale spot near base; flagellum dull testaceous beneath; thorax 

 clothed with a short dense ochraceous pubescence, more or less 

 tinged witli fulvous above, that on disk of mesothorax and scutel- 

 lum black; tegulae dull testaceous ; wings subhyaline, tinged with 

 yellowish, nervures pale fuscous, second submaiginal cell nearly 

 as long as first, the third broadly rounded at tip and narrowed 

 one-half towards marginal ; legs clothed with ochraceous or pale 

 fulvous pubescence, long and dense on posterior tibiie and tarsi, 

 tips of tarsi ferruginous; base and sides of first segment of abdo- 

 men and sides of apical segments clothed with ochraceous pubes- 

 cence, broad apical margin of segments 2-4 and base of second 




202 PROCEEDINOK OF THK ACADK.MY OF [1878. 



narrowly, deiisel}- clothed witli a slioit appicssed fiiHMX'oiis pile; 

 apical niarjiiii of first segment narrowly testaceous; ventral seg- 

 ments fringed willi yellow or ocliraeeous pubescence. Length .50 

 inch. 



Ilab. (jcorgia (Morrison). Three specimens. 



Melissodes montana. 



9. — Black; head densely clothed with pale cinereous pubescence, 

 that on occiput mixed ochraceous and black; mandibles fulvous 

 near tips; thorax densely clothed with a long ochraceous pubes- 

 cence, tinged above with fulvous, that on disk of mesothorax and 

 scutellum short and black; teguhB piceous ; wings hyaline, dusky 

 on apical margin, nervures fuscous, second sul)marginal cell three- 

 fourths the length of first, the third long, rounded at tip. and 

 narrowed one-half towards marginal ; legs clothed with ochraceous 

 pubescence, that on posterior tibire and tarsi long and dense, tips 

 of four posterior tibiae and basal joint of their tarsi and of the 

 posterior pair within clothed with fuscous or black; abdomen with 

 base and sides of two basal segments, and extreme sides of re- 

 maining segments, clothed with ochraceous pubescence, segments 

 2-4 each with a band of dense appressed golden ochraceous pubes- 

 cence, broadest on 4, and more or less interrupted on 2 : apical 

 segments with black or fuscous pubescence ; venter piceous, clothed 

 with black pubescence. Length .50 inch. 



% . — Head, thorax, base, and sides of abdomen clothed with pale 

 ochraceous pubescence, that on disk of mesothorax and scutellum 

 black; clypeus, labrum, and spot on base of mandibles pale yellow ; 

 antenniie reaching to tip of second abdominal segment, subcrenu- 

 lated towards tip, third joint a little longer than second, flagellum 

 fulvous beneath; legs simple, clothed with ochraceous pubescence, 

 fulvous on tarsi beneath, the latter pale ferruginous; apical margin 

 of abdominal segments broadly pale testaceous, the apical half of 

 second and nearly the whole of the three following scgn»ents 

 covered with a short subappressed ochraceous or jellow pubes- 

 cence, that on the two apical segments fuscous or black, these 

 two segments have each a short tooth on extreme sides; venter 

 piceous, the apical margin of the segments narrowly fulvo-testa- 

 ceous. Length .50 inch. 



Hah. Colorado (Ridings); New Mexico (Dr. Lewis). Four spe- 

 cimens. 




1878.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 203 



Melissodes suffusa. 



9. — Black; head clothed with cinereous pubescence, that on 

 labrum and occiput ochraceous ; anterior margin of clypeus, most 

 of labrura and base of mandibles pale ferruginous, a yellowish line 

 on mandibles near tips ; thorax clothed with a short dense ochra- 

 ceous pubescence, pale on sides and beneath, and tinged with 

 fulvous above, that on disk of mesothorax and scutellum sparse 

 and black; tegulte. pale testaceous; wings hyaline, slightly dusky 

 on apical margin, nervures fuscous, costal nerve ferruginous, 

 neuration as in montana ; legs clothed with ochraceous pubescence 

 long and dense on posterior tibioe and tarsi and fulvous within, 

 tips of tarsi ferruginous ; base and sides of first abdominal seg- 

 ment clothed with ochraceous pubescence, a white band at base 

 of second segment and a very broad band of short dense appressed 

 cinereous pile on apex of segments 2-4, two apical segments 

 clothed with fulvous pubescence paler laterally, apical margin of 

 first segment narrowly whitish; venter with fulvous pubescence, 

 apical margin of the segments fulvo-testaceous. Length .60 inch. 



% . — Pubescence paler and more dense on head ; clypeus, labrum, 

 and base of mandibles yellowish ; antennae rather longer than 

 head and thorax, third joint three times longer than second and 

 about half the length of fourth, flagellum fulvous beneath ; wing 

 nervures fulvous ; legs simple, clothed with ochraceous pubes- 

 cence, that on tarsi beneath fulvous ; abdomen much as in 9 ex- 

 cept that the band on fourth segment is narrower, and the fifth 

 has a similar band; .apex with fulvous pubescence, the sixth seg- 

 ment having a stout acute tooth at exti'eme sides. Length .45 inch. 



Hah. Texas (Belfrage, Heiligbrodt). Four specimens. The 

 cinereous bands on abdominal segments 2-4 of 9 are very broad, 

 occupying nearly the entire upper surface. 



Melissodes fimbriata. 



9. — Black; head and thorax clothed with pale ochraceous or 

 cinereous pubescence, which on disk of mesothorax and scutellum 

 is sparse and mixed with black; mandibles with aj'ellowish stripe 

 near tips; flagellum subtestaceous beneath; tegulse piceous; wings 

 fuscous on apical margin, nervures black, second submarginal cell 

 half the length of first, basal nerve very oblique, third submarginal 

 truncate at tip and narrowed one-half towards marginal ;^ legs 

 clothed with fulvous pubescence, long and dense on posterior 




204 PRUCEEDINGS OF THK ACADE^IT OF [1878. 



j):iir; aliilomt'ii willi l):is;il ami lateral margins of fust segment^ 

 extreme basal margin of .set-oiul, and narrow apical margin of 

 segments 2-4 fringed witli wJjili.sU piil»escenee, elsewhere the 

 pubescence is fuscous or black Length .45 inch. 



%. — Closely rcseml)les the 9; elypeus and sometimes a spot on 

 labrvim yellowish ; antennre two-tliirds the length of body, third 

 joint scarcely twice the length of second, flagellum fulvous be- 

 neath; jDubescence on thorax much longer, disk of mesuthorax and 

 scutellum shining and sparsely punctured; pul)escence of legs 

 paler, tarsi slender, simple, ferruginous at tips; fifth segment of 

 abdomen fringed at apex with white pubescence similar to that 

 on fourth, two apical segments each with a short acute tooth on 

 extreme sides, sides of venter with long whitish hair. Length ,45 

 inch. 



Ilab. Texas (Belfrage). Four specimens. This is allied to 

 rivalis Cress. 



Kelissodes agilis. 



%. — Small, l)lack, clothed with a pale ochraceons or cinereous 

 pubescence, dense on thorax; ch'peus, labrum, and spot on base 

 of mandibles pale yellow; mandibles dull ferruginous at tips; 

 antennse nearly as long as the bod}', fulvous, darker above, t!»ree 

 basal joints black, third joint a little larger than second ; wings 

 whitish-hj-aline, with pale testaceous nervures, second submar- 

 ginal cell half the length of first, the third rounded at tip and 

 narrowed one-half towards marginal; legs clothed with short 

 cinereous pubescence, tarsi slender, simple, pale ferruginous at 

 tips, tibial spurs white; abdomen thinly clothed with cinereous 

 pubescence, apical margin of the segments rather broadly whitish, 

 and having a narrow band of cinereous pubescence, two apical 

 segments each with a short stout tooth at extreme sides. Length 

 .40 inch. 



Hab. Texas (Belfrage). Six specimens. This is much smaller 

 than menuacha Cress., which it otherwise closely resembles. 



Uelissodes communis. 



9. — Black; head and thorax clothed with a short dense cine- 

 reous pubescence, ver}' short on clyi)eMs, which is densely punc- 

 tured; flagellum subtestaceous beneath; disk of mesothorax and 

 scutellum with short sparse black pubescence; disk of metathorax 

 almost nude, the pubescence on sides long ; tegulai piceous ; wings 




1878.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 205 



dusky, da ike I* on apical margin, nervures fuscous, second subrnar- 

 ginal cell more than half tlie length of first, the third rounded at 

 tip and narrowed one-half towards the marginal ; four anterior 

 legs witli mixed fuscous and ochraceous pubescence, posterior 

 tibiai and tarsi with long dense fulvous pubescence, which is 

 darker within; abdomen sliining, base and sides of first segment, 

 witli cinereous pubescence; narrow band at extreme base of second 

 segment, another, slightly arcuated, across the middle, a broad 

 band near base of third, and another on apex of fourtli, sometimes 

 subinterrupted on posterior middle, composed of short dense 

 appressed whitish pile; apex and venter with black pubescence, 

 that on the sides of the latter generally mixed with white. Length 

 .45 inch. 



% . — Resembles the 9 in color of pubescence and ornamentation 

 of abdomen ; clypeus, labrum, and base of mandibles pale yellow- 

 ish ; antennse two-thirds the length of bod}', third joint scarcely 

 twice the length of second, flagellum fulvous beneath ; legs clothed 

 with ochraceous pubescence, that on tarsi beneath golden, tarsi 

 simi)le, pale ferruginous at tips; sometimes the fifth abdominal 

 segment has an indistinct band of pale hairs ; two apical segments 

 each with a short lateral tooth; sometimes the apical margin of 

 the segments are more or less testaceous. Length .45 inch. 



Hab. Georgia, Illinois. Twentj' specimens. 



Melissodes confusa. 



9. — Black; head and thorax clothed with a dense pale ochra- 

 ceous pubescence, slightly mixed with black on vertex, occii)ut, 

 and thorax beneath; on disk of mesothorax and scutellum the 

 pubescence is sparse and black, the former smooth, polished, 

 sparsely punctured ; tegulfe piceous ; wings hyaline, slightly dusky 

 on apical margin, nervures fuscous, second submarginal cell three- 

 fourths the length of first, the third rounded at tip and narrowed 

 more than one-half towards marginal ; legs clothed with black 

 pubescence, mixed with pale ochraceous at base of four anterior 

 tibiae and apex of posterior femora, posterior tibise and outside of 

 their tarsi clothed with a long dense yellow pubescence; abdomen 

 clothed with short black pubescence, longer on apical segments, 

 basal segment with a long sparse pale pubescence at base, segments 

 2-4 each with a broad band of siiort dense appressed pubescence, 

 often interrupted on second and third segments, base of second 




20G I'ROCEEDINaS OF TIIK ACADEMY OF [1878. 



sometimes with a narrow band at base; venter with black or 

 fuscous i)ultesccnc('. Length A^)-J)0 inch. 



% HKiek; head, tliorax, and base of abdomen clothed with a 



long dense whitish pubescence, more or less tinged above with 

 ochraceous; clypeus yellowish; antennae nearly as long as the 

 body, entirely black, third joint a little larger than second; 

 pubescence of legs entirely pale ochraceous, tips of tarsi ferrugi- 

 nons, tibial spnrs whitish; ai)ical margin of abdominal segments 

 whitish, and having a band of pale pubescence, sixth and seventh 

 segments each with a short tooth on each extreme side, generally 

 concealed by the pubescence ; venter piceous, tlie pubescence 

 sparse and pale, apical margin of the segments narrowly testa- 

 ceous. Lengtli .40-43 inch. 



Hab. Colorado (Ptidings, Morrison). Twelve specimens. 



Uelissodes perplexa. 



9. — Black, shining; head and thorax clothed with cinereous 

 pubescence, that on anterior margin of occiput, raesothorax except 

 anterior margin and scutellum, erect and black; disk of mesothorax 

 almost nude and sparsely punctured; mandibles with a yellowish 

 stripe near apex; tegulae piceous; wings hyaline, slightly dusky 

 on apical margin, nervures black, third submargiual cell rounded 

 at apex and narrowed one-half towards marginal; legs with black 

 or fuscous pubescence, posterior tibiifi and outer side of basal joint 

 of their tarsi pale ochraceous ; base of first segment and sides of 

 all the segments beneath with cinereous pubescence, a cinereous 

 band on middle of second and third segments, suboblique on the 

 sides and more or less interrupted on second, and a band of same 

 color at' apex of fourth segment, sometimes a narrow cinereous 

 band at extreme base of second segment; apical segments above 

 black. Length .40 inch. 



%. — Pubescence longer and more dense than on 9; ch'peus 

 except base white; antennae nearly- as long as the. body, third joint 

 scarcely twice longer than second, flagellura fulvous beneath; 

 third sul)raarginal cell narrowed more than two-thirds to margi- 

 nal ; pubescence of legs entirely pale, tarsi slender and simple, 

 tibial spurs pale; abdominal fasciae much narrower than in 9 and 

 more or less interrupted, two apical segments each with a stout 

 tooth on extreme sides. Length .35 incii. 



Hab. Georgia (Morrison); Texas (Belfrage). Twent}' speci- 

 mens. 




18t8.] NATURAL SCTEXCES OF PEITLADELPHIA. 207 



Melissodes condigna. 



9 Robust, shining black; head clothed with short whitish 



pubescence, very short on chpeus, the disk of which is nude, a 

 line of long black hair behind ocelli ; mandibles near tips and flagel- 

 lum beneath yellowish ; prothoras, lateral and posterior margins 

 of mesothorax, metathorax, and large patch beneath wings clothed 

 with griseous or whitish pubescence, elsewhere it is short and 

 black, a slight admixture of pale hair on mesothorax anteriorly; 

 disk of mesothorax and scutellum shining, sparsely punctured 

 and nude; tegulae piceous; wings tinged with 3'ellowish and with 

 a golden reflection, pale dusky on apical margin, nervures fuscous, 

 second subraarginal cell small, scarcely half the length of first, 

 third submarginal as long as first, rounded at apex and narrowed 

 one-half towards marginal ; legs clothed with mixed fuscous and 

 pale pubescence, that on posterior tibi.ne and tarsi yellow, fulvous 

 witliiii ; abdomen shining, finely punctured, subiridescent ; base 

 of first segment with a thin pale pubescence ; a narrow band at 

 base of second segment dilated on extreme sides, a broad band at 

 base of third, a broad band at apex of fourth, more or less inter- 

 rupted medially, and a spot on each side of fifth, of short dense 

 appressed cinereous or pale ochraceous pubescence; apical margin 

 of the segments sometimes narrowly pale testaceous; lateral apical 

 margin of ventral segmeuts fringed with whitish hair. Length 

 .55 inch. 



Hah. Illinois, Kansas. Two specimens. 



Melissodes StretcMi. 



9. — Black; head and thorax clothed with dense griseous pubes- 

 cence; clypeus nude, densely punctured; labrum with fulvous 

 pubescence; mesothorax very densel}^ and finely punctured, the 

 pubescence short and not very dense, that on pleura long, dense, 

 and pale; tegulte piceous; wings subhyaline, nervures black, 

 second submarginal cell less than one-half the length of first, the 

 third truncate at tip and narrowed one-half towards marginal; 

 legs clothed with pale ochraceous pubescence, long and dense on 

 posterior tiljife and tarsi ; abdomen nearly' nutle, a little griseous 

 pubescence at base of first segment, apical margin of segments 2 

 and 3 narrowly whitish, the base of 2-5, and apex of 5 witli a 

 narrow band of appressed pale ochraceous pile, indistinct on base 

 of 2 and 5 ; apical segment with fulvous pubescence; Aenter fringed 

 with long pale pubescence. Length .50 inch. 




208 PROCEEDINGS OF THK ACAl)KMy OP [1878. 



Hdh. Califoniiii (R. II. Stretch). One specimen. A very ilis- 

 tinct species. 



Melissodes actuosa. 



9. — Bl:ick; head and thorax clothed with griseons pid)esecnce, 

 sparse on face and disk of niesothorax, whicli latter is opaque and 

 inipunctiired ; tegnhe rufo-piceous ; wings hyaline, nervures fiis- 

 cons, second snhinarginal cell small, less than half the length of 

 first, the tliird trnncate at tip and narrowed one-half towards 

 marginal; legs with pale ochraceons pubescence, long and dense 

 on posterior tibiae and tarsi ; abdomen with short black pnl)es- 

 cence, a few scattered pale hairs on base of first segment, a broad 

 band of appressed cinereous pubescence on a[)ex of segments 2-4, 

 generally interrupted on middle of 2, and a band of pale fulvous 

 pubescence on apex of 5; ventral segments fringed with griseons 

 pubescence. Length .45 inch. 



Hah. California (II. Edwards). Three specimens. This has the 

 mesothorax and scutellum opaque and irapunctured. 



Melissodes donata. 



9. — Small, black; head and thorax clothed with a short, not 

 very dense griseons pubescence, that on vertex, mesothorax, and 

 scutellum more or less black or fuscous; mesothorax opaque, 

 roughly, densely and confluentl}"- punctured, the scutellum very 

 densely so; tegulse piceous ; wings subh3'aline, nervures black, 

 second submarginal half the length of first, receiving the first re- 

 current nervure at tip, the third submarginal truncate at tip and 

 narrowed two-thirds towards marginal; legs with pale ochraceons 

 pubescence, long and dense on posterior pair; abdomen shining, 

 closely and minutely punctured, base and sides narrowly of first 

 segment with a little cinereous pubescence, base of second nar- 

 rowly, and apex of segments 2-4 broadly with a dense, appressed, 

 whitish cinereous pile; two apical segments black, the tip of 5 

 narrowly fuscous ; sides of ventral segments fringed with whitish 

 hail'. Length ..35 inch. 



Hob. Mexico (Suniichrast). One specimen. 



Melissodes trifasciata. 



9- — Black; head clothed with griseons pubescence, that on 

 vertex black; mandibles tinged vvitii dull ferruginous; thorax 

 with dense ochraceons pubescence; disk of mesothorax, an arcuate 

 band anteriorly extending beneath, and the scutellum with black 




1878.] NATl/RAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 209 



pubescence; wings sulili^'aline, darker on apical margin, nerviires 

 fuscous, sf'cond submarginal cell oljliquel}^ quadrate, half the 

 length of first, third sul)margiual truncate at tip, narrowed one- 

 half towards marginal; legs with black pubescence, mixed with 

 pale on femora and tibias, that on tarsi beneath fulvous, posterior 

 tibia? and tarsi fulvous clothed with long fulvous pubescence, tip 

 of first joint black ; abdomen shining, base of first segment clothed 

 wMth pale ochraceous pubescence, a narrow band at base of 

 segments 2 and 3, and broad band at apex of 4, of short dense 

 appressed pale ochraceous pile; apex and venter with short black 

 pubescence. Length .40 inch. 



Hah. Porto Rico (Krug). One specimen. This may prove to 

 be the 9 of mimica Cress. 



Melissodes albilabris. 



% . — Black; head and thorax clothed with a long, dense griseous 

 pubescence, mixed with black on face, veitex and mesothorax 

 anteriorly, and tinged with yellow on sides of scutellum and 

 metatiiorax; labrum white; antennffi three-fourths the length of 

 the bod}^, third joint a little longer than second, flagellum dull 

 fulvous beneath ; tegulte yellowish ; wings tinged with yellow, 

 apical margin dusky, nervures pale fuscous, second submarginal 

 cell less than half the length of first, the third shorter tiian first 

 and only slightly narrowed towards marginal; legs sU-nder, clothed 

 with pale pubescence, that on outside of posterior tibiae and tarsi 

 black, t\[)S of tarsi pale ferruginous; apical margin of abdominal 

 segments above broadly pale testaceous, clothed with a very short 

 dense appressed golden pile, base of first segment with a whitish 

 pubescence. Length .40 inch. 



Hab. Mexico (Sumiehrast). One specimen. 

 Melissodes otomita. 



% . — Small, black ; head and thorax clothed with a dense griseous 

 pubescence, that on occiput, disk of mesothorax and scutellum 

 more or less black ; clypeus pale yellow ; antennse as long as head 

 and thorax, third joint about twice the length of second, flagellum 

 beneath except first joint fulvous ; tegulse piceous ; wings hyaline, 

 apical margin dusky, nervures pale fuscous, second submarginal 

 large, about equal with first, third rounded at tip and narrowed 

 one-half towards marginal; legs clothed with griseous pubescence; 

 first segment of abdomen clothed with griseous pubescence, seg- 




210 PRO0EEDINO6 OF TIIK ACADKMY OF [1S78. 



nionts 2-5 covered more or less with a dense ochraceous pile, 

 beeomiiig more dense on the apical margin and forming goMen- 

 ochraceous bands; apical segments black, the sixth with a blunt 

 tooth on each side. Length .35 incli. 



Ilab. Mexico (Sumichrast). One specimen. 



Melissodes tepida. 



9. — niack ; head, thorax, legs, and Itase of alidomen clotiied 

 with a dense pale ochraceous pul)escence ; mandibles 3'cllo\vish 

 toward tips; flagellum fulvo-tostaceous beneath; posterior tibiae 

 and tarsi clothed with a long dense pale ochraceous pubescence ; 

 wings subhyaline, nervures fuscous, second submarginal cell two- 

 thirds the length of first, the third broadly rounded at tip and 

 narrowed more than one-half towards marginal; segments 2-4 of 

 abdomen covered almost entirel}' with a short dense pale appressed 

 ochraceous pile; two apical segments black, a patch of pale 

 pnbescence on each side of the fifth ; venter fringed with pale 

 pubescence. Length .40 inch. 



Hah. Nevada (H. Edwards). One specimen. 

 Melissodes suavis. 



9. — Black; head, thorax, and base of abdomen clotlied with a 

 dense pale ochraceous pubescence ;.clypeus nearl}' nude, shining; 

 mandibles near tips and flagellum Iteneath rufo-testaceous ; tegulae 

 pale fulvous; wings hyaline, nervures black, second submarginal 

 cell half the length of first, the tiiird truncate at tip and suddenl}- 

 narrow-ed one-half towards marginal ; legs clothed with pale pubes- 

 cence, that on tibi.ie and tarsi fulvous, long and dense on posterior 

 pair; a spot on each side of first abdominal segment, and the 

 second to fifth, except narrow apical margins, clothed with a short, 

 dense, appressed white pubescence, that on the fifth tinged with 

 ochraceous, the apical margin of the segments nude, smooth, and 

 polished; venter brown, the segments fringed with pale, the apex 

 with fulvous pubescence. Length .45 inch. 



Hab. Colorado (Morrison). One specimen. A ver}'^ pretty 

 little species, the abdomen appearing white with four narrow 

 shining black bands. 



Melissodes lupina. 



%)' — Black, clothed with a dense griseous pubescence, tinged 

 with ochraceous on thorax above, and white on face and cheeks; 

 clypeus, labrum more or less, and spot ou base of mandibles pale 




1878.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 211 



yellow; antennae three-fourths the length of the body, third joint 

 a little longer than the second, flagelluui pale fulvons beneath ; 

 wings hj^aline, nervures pale fuscous, second subniarginal cell 

 about half the length of first, the third rounded at tip and nar- 

 rowed one-half to marginal ; legs with griseous pubescence, tarsi 

 pale ferruginous at tips; abdomen clothed with a griseous, some- 

 times ochraceous pubescence, long on basal segment, and forming 

 a more or less indistinct band near apex of remaining segments ; 

 apical margin of the segments dull testaceous ; sides of two apical 

 segments with a short acute tooth. Length .35 inch. 

 Hah. California (H. Edwards). Six specimens. 



Melissodes Snowii. 



% . — Black, clothed with a dense white pubescence: clypeus, 

 labrum, and spot at base of mandibles jellowish-white; antennae 

 two-thirds the length of body, second and third joints subequal, 

 flngellum fulvous, the base of joints above black; wings uniformly 

 wliitish-hyaline, nervures pale fulvous, second submarginal less 

 than half the length of first, the third broadly rounded at tip, and 

 narrowed one-half towards marginal ; tips of tarsi pale ferruginous ; 

 apical margin of abdominal segments whitish and having a fascia 

 of dense white pubescence; two apical segments each with a tooth 

 on extreme sides ; venter clothed with white pubescence. Length 

 40 inch. 



Hah. Colorado (Prof. F. H. Snow). One specimen. This is 

 larger than alhata Cress., and with the abdomen distinctl}' fasciate. 



Melissodes tepaneca. 



9 . — Black ; head clothed with whitish pubescence, that on 

 labrum long and ochraceous, that on occiput fulvous with a line 

 of long erect black hair behind the ocelli; thorax above clothed 

 with a dense fulvous pubescence, that on the sides and beneath 

 ochraceous; tegulae pale fulvous; wings subhyaline, dusky at 

 apex, nervures fuscous, second submarginal cell half the length 

 of first, the third rounded at tip and narrowed one-half towards 

 marginal ; four anterior legs clothed with fuscous pubescence, 

 that on all the femora whitish, that on posterior tibiae and tarsi 

 yellow, long, and dense; base of first segment and sides of ventral 

 segments with long ochraceous pubescence; a narrow band at 

 base of second segment, a narrow band across the middle, a broad 

 band at base of third, and another at tip of fourth, all of dense 




212 PROCEEDINGS OF TUB ACADKMY OF [1S7S. 



appresscd ocliraceous pile, tliat on fifth segment more or less 

 intfiTUpted on posterior middle; apical segment witii black 

 pulicsc*'nce, mixed with ocliraceous laterally. Length .4;3 inch. 



% . — The pubescence longer and more dense, and entirely fulvous 

 or ochiaceous except on apical segments of abdomen ; clypeus, 

 labrum, and spot on base of mandibles pale yellow; antennae 

 three-fouitiis the length of abdomen, third joint a little larger 

 than second, flagellum pale fulvous beneath; legs brownish, 

 clothed with ochraceous pubescence, tarsi pale fulvous; alxlomen 

 marked as in 9, with the pubescence on l)asal segment fulvous; 

 two apical segments each with a short tooth on extreme sides. 

 Length .40 inch. 



Hab. Mexico (Sumichrast). Twelve specimens. 



Melissodes aurigenia. 



9. — Black; head, legs, and basal segment of abdomen clothed 

 with ochraceous pubescence, the thorax with dense fulvous pul)es- 

 cence, paler on the sides and beneath ; flagellum fulvo-testaceous 

 beneath; wings uniformly hyaline, neivures pale fulvous, second 

 submarginal cell more than half the length of first, the third trun- 

 cate at tip and narrowed one-half to marginal; posterior tibije and 

 tarsi with long fulvous pubescence, that on base of tarsi, at tip and 

 within black; band at base of second abdominal segment, another 

 on the middle, sometimes suffused with that at base, and a broad 

 band at apex of segments 3 and 4, of dense appressed ochraceous 

 pubescence; apical segments black; venter clothed with long 

 fulvo-ochraceous pubescence. Length .45 inch. 



%. — Narrower than 9 and more densel}'^ pubescent; clypeus, 

 labrum, and spot on base of mandibles pale yellow; antennte two- 

 thirds the length of body, third joint less than twice the length of 

 second, flagellum pale fulvous beneath; legs slender, with ochra- 

 ceous i)ubescence, tips of tarsi pale fulvous, tibial spurs white; 

 apical margin of abdominal segments i)ale testaceous, first seg- 

 ment clothed with a long fulvo-ochraceous pubescence, base of 

 second, and apical margin of segments 2-G with a broad, more or 

 less indistinct band of ochraceous pubescence; two apical seg- 

 ments each with a stout black tooth on extreme sides. Length 

 .40-.45 inch. 



Hab. Can., Me., X. Y., Ya., La., Mo., Kan., Col., X. Mex., Utah. 

 Twenty specimens. This may be pennsylvanica St. Farg., but it 




1878.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 213 



is impossible to accuratelj' determine from his imperfect descrip- 

 tion. 



Melissodes fulvohirta. 



% . — Black, clothed with a bright fulvo-ochraceous pubescence; 

 ch'peus and labrum yellow; antennae a little longer than head and 

 thorax, entirel}' black, subcrenulate at tip, third joint nearly three 

 times the length of second; wings subhj'aline, fuscous on apical 

 mai^in, second subraarginal cell large, tvro-thirds the length of 

 first, the third truncate at tip and narrowed nearly one-half to 

 marginal; tips of tarsi pale ferruginous; abdomen shining, the 

 apical margin of the segments above and beneath rufo-testaceous, 

 the second and following segments denseh' clothed with a sliort 

 dense briglit fulvous pubescence; venter piceous, apical margin 

 of the segments fringed laterally with fulvous pubescence. Length 

 .50 inch. 



Hab. Georgia (Morrison). Two specimens. 



Melissodes exquisita. 



9. — Black; head and thorax clothed with a dense pale ochra- 

 ceous pubescence, whitish on cheeks and thorax beneath, and 

 mixed with fuscous on occiput, mesothorax, and sciitellum; man- 

 dibles yellowish before tips and fringed beneath with long pale 

 hair; pubescence of mesothorax short and sparse on disk; wings 

 fuscous, witii a violaceous reflection, nervures black, second sub- 

 marginal cell more than half the length of first, the third truncate 

 at tip and suddenly narrowed one-half towards marginal ; legs 

 with fulvo-ochraceous pubescence, long and dense on posterior 

 tibiag and tarsi, that on femora pale ochraceous; first segment of 

 abdomen clothed with a long ochraceous pubescence, the remain- 

 ing segments covered with a dense appressed golden-fulvous 

 pubescence; ventral segments fringed at apex with a long dense 

 fulvo-ochraceous pubescence. Length .60 inch. 



Hab. Mexico (Sumichrast). One specimen. A very distinct 

 and beautiful species. 



Melissodes strenua. 



9. — Black; face and cheeks clothed with griseous pubescence, 

 vertex, occiput, and thorax with dense fulvo-ochraceous pubes- 

 cence; large, transverse mark on apex of clypeus, labrum, and 

 spot on base of mandibles yellowish ; flagellum fulvo-testaQeous 

 beneath; teguloe pale fulvous; wings fusco-hyaline, tinged with 




214 PROCEEDINGS OF TITE ACADKMY OF [1878. 



yt'llowisli, ncrviires fuscous, second siibinargiiial coll more than 

 lialf the length of first, the thir«l sul)triincjite at tip and narrowed 

 neaily ono-iialf towards marginal; legs with fusco-ferriiginous 

 pubescence, paler on anterior pair; alxlomen smooth and shining, 

 very finely punctured, base and sides of first segment clothed with 

 ochraceous pubescence, base and sides of second, sides of thinl 

 and the fourth almost entirely covered with a very short dense 

 appressed cinereous pile; two apical segments and venter clothed 

 with a fulvous pubescence. Length .05 inch. 



%. — Very much like the 9, but with narrower abdomen, clearer 

 wings, and fulvo-ferruginous legs ; clypeus except base, labrum, 

 and spot on base of mandibles pale yellow; flagellura pale fulvoivs 

 beneath; abdomen more or less incurved at tip, first segment 

 except apex clothed with fulvous pubescence; base of second and 

 a short line on each side near apex, base and apex of third and 

 fourth, and the two following segments entirely', covered with a 

 fine dense appressed ochraceous pile; sixth segment with a short 

 tooth on each side; apical segment narrowed and truncate at tip. 

 Length .60 inch. 



Hab. Georgia, Texas, New Mexico. This fine species is allied 

 to jjrxiinoHa Say, but is much larger, and the abdomen not so 

 distinctly banded. 



Melissodes australis. 



5. — Black, shining; head and thorax clothed with a short dense 

 cinereous pubescence, that on thorax above tinged with ochrace- 

 ous; clypeus, vertex, and disk of mesothorax smooth and nude; 

 tegulae fulvo- testaceous; wings hyaline, faintly dusky on apical 

 margin, nervures fuscous, marginal cell long and pointed at tip, 

 second submarginal small, oblong quadrate, not narrowed above, 

 less than one-third the length of first, the third as long as first, 

 rounded at tip and narrowed one-half towards marginal ; legs 

 clothed with whitish pubescence, that on tarsi ochraceous, poste- 

 rior tibiae and base of tarsi with long dense ochraceous pubescence, 

 tips of tarsi pale ferruginous; abdomen covered with an appressed 

 ochraceous i)ubescence, thin and pale at base, and tinged with 

 fulvous on apical segments, and much more dense, forming narrow 

 bands, on apical margin of the segments ; last segment fringed 

 with fulvous pubescence; sides of venter with ochraceous pubes- 

 cence. Length .45-.50 inch. 




1878.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 215 



% . — The pubescence paler and more dense than 9 , especially on 

 the abdomen which is narrower and more convex ; tip of clypeus 

 and vertex nude, smooth, and shining, labrum densely pubescent; 

 antennffi short as in 9; four posterior legs robust, the femora and 

 tibise incrassate, the tarsi slender and fringed with long pale 

 pubescence, basal joint of posterior tarsi long and curved, and 

 having at apex beneath a prominent curved, subacute tooth, w^hich 

 is flattened and dilated at base; abdomen densely clothed with a 

 short erect pubescence, generally cinereous, sometimes tinged with 

 ochraceous, especially at tip, that on apical margin of the segments 

 narrowly white; apical segment bidentate. Length .45-.50 inch. 



Hab. Colorado (Ridings, Morrison) ; Texas (Belfrage). Eigh- 

 teen specimens. This is closely allied to enavata Cress., which, 

 however, has the pubescence darker, the wings more dusky and 

 subviolaceous at tips, and the second subraarginal cell narrowed 

 above. The % closely resembles ursina Cress, (which is probably 

 the % of enavata), but is easily distinguished by the conspicuous 

 toothed process at tip of basal joint of posterior tarsi, not seen in 

 ursina. 



This and the remaining species described under 3Ielissodes, 

 seem intermediate between that genus and Anihophora, the % an- 

 tennae, except in jnnguis, being little or no longer than those of 

 the 9. The neuration of anterior wings resembles that of Ilelis- 

 sodes, with the marginal cell long and pointed at tip, and not 

 shortened and broadly rounded as in Anlhophora. 



Melissodes diminuta. 



■£. — Small, black, clothed with a short dense ochraceo-cinereous 

 pubescence, vertex and disk of thorax smooth and polished; an- 

 tennae about as long as the head is broad, entirely black; tegulae 

 piceous; wings hyaline, nervures fuscous, second submarginal cell 

 half the length of first, narrowed above, the third as long as first, 

 rounded at tip and narrowed more than one-half towards marginal; 

 four anterior tibiae and tarsi robust, tarsi long, slender, simple, the 

 basal joint of posterior pair curved; abdomen denseh^ pubescent, 

 that on apical margin of segments paler, apical segment bispinose. 

 Length .32 inch. 



Hah. Colorado (Morrison). Two specimens. This is a minia- 

 ture of ursina. 




21G PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1S78. 



Melissodes olivacea. 



9. — Siiiiill, r<)l)tist, black; liead clutlied with grisoous )»iil»es- 

 cencc, tinged vvi.tli greeiiish-<>cl)raceous on occi|jiit; mandibles 

 l)ale 3'('Ilo\visli at base ; flagelliirn fnlvo-te.staeoons beneath ; thorax 

 eh^thed with a short dense pale oehraceous pnbeseenee, tinged 

 witli greenish-yellow above, longer and pale beneath ; tegulae 

 fidvo-testaceous; wings snliiiyaline, tinge<l with yellowish, ner- 

 vures fuscoMs, second sul)niarginal cell mure tiian half the length 

 of first, narrowed nbove, the thiril longer than first, roiUKJed at 

 tip and narrowed neaily two thirds towards marginal; legs brown, 

 chjthed with pale oehraceous pubescence, long on posterior pair; 

 al)domen broad ovate, de[)ressed, clotlied with a short dense 

 appressed greenish-yellow pubescence, more dense on a[)ical mar- 

 gin of the segments, that on base of first segment longer, pale and 

 suberect, extreme apex of abdomen fuscous. Length .35 inch. 



%. — Form narrower, the pubescence more dense, especially on 

 face and thorax above; clypeus and mandibles dull yelhjw; an- 

 tennae short, but little longer than those of ? ; pubescence of thorax 

 and abdomen brighter in color than in 9 ; legs much paler, the two 

 anterior |)airs pale testaceous in front, anterior pair short, slender, 

 fringed with long pale pubescence, the two posterior pairs long, 

 subrobust, tarsi long, pale, fringed with long whitish pubescence, 

 the basal joint long, slender, curved, clothed within with yellowish 

 pubescence. Length .30 inch. 



Hub. Mexico (Sumichrast). Twelve specimens. 



Melissodes pinguis. 



9. — Form short, robust, black; head thinly clotlied with a short 

 griseous jMibescence, mixed with black on vertex; clypeus deeply 

 punctured ; mesothorax and scutellum shining, strongly punc- 

 tured, clothed with a short black pubescence, that on the meta- 

 thorax and pleura laterally and beneath griseous; tegulje piceous; 

 wings subhyaline, duskj^ on apical margin, second submarginal 

 cell subquadrate, nearly as long as the first, the third as long as 

 first, rounded at tip, and narrowed one-half towards marginal ; 

 four anterior legs clothed with fuscous pubescence, tiiat on femora 

 thin and pale, posterior tibiai and tarsi with long fulvo-ochraceous 

 pubescence; abdomen broad, ovate subdepressed ; first segment 

 except sides and middle of second smooth, black, shining; the 

 remainder covered with a short dense appressed golden-yellow 




1818.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 217 



pile; ventral segments fringed with fulvous pubescence. Length 

 .35 inch. 



%. — Form narrower, more convex, the pubescence more dense; 

 cl3'peus, labrura, and spot at base of mandibles 3'ellowish-white; 

 antennae as long as head and thorax, theflagellum dull testaceous 

 beneath; pubescence of thorax above longer; wijigs darker, the 

 third submarginal narrowed nearl}' three-fourths towards rnargi- 

 nal; legs slender, simple, clothed with griseous pubescence; base 

 of abdomen with whitisli puliescence, the two apical segments 

 each with a short tooth on extreme sides. Length .30 inch. ■ 



Hab. ^Mexico (Sumichrast). Six specimens. 



Melissodes afflicta. 



9. — Black, shining, clothed with a short griseous pubescence; 

 clypeus, vertex, most of thorax above and scutellum nude, smooth, 

 and shining; teguUe pale brown; wings tinged with fuscous, 

 nervures black or fuscous, second submarginal cell about half the 

 length of first, narrowed above, the third subtruncate at tip and 

 narrowed one-half towards marginal; legs with pale ochraceous 

 pubescence, long on posterior pair, that at tip of posterior tibise 

 and on tarsi fuscous or black; abdomen depressed, shining, first 

 segment clothed with griseous pubescence, apical margin of seg- 

 ments 2-5 with a narrow band of dense appressed white pubes- 

 cence, apex tinged with fuscous; ventral segments fringed at apex 

 with fuscous pubescence, pale on the sides. Length .40 inch. 



Z . — Much more densely' pubescent than 9 , that on thorax above 

 much darker; antennae short as in 9; posterior legs incrassate, 

 the tarsi long, first joint curved, with the tip prolonged within;, 

 first and second segments of abdomen and venter clothed with a 

 short dense griseous pubescence, that on the remaining segments 

 black or fuscous, apical margin of segments 2-5 and sometimes 6, 

 fringed with whitish pubescence; apical segment bidentate at tip. 

 Length .30-.35 incli. 



Hab. Texas (Belfrage, Heiligbrodt). Seren specimens. 



Melissodes apacha. 



9. — Black; head and thorax rather densely clothed with a 

 griseous pubescence, more or less ochraceous or fulvo-ochraeeous 

 on thorax above; apex of clypeus, vertex, and disk of mesothorax 

 smooth and shining; teguUe pale piceous; wings hyaline, nervures 

 fuscous, second submarginal cell about half the length of first, 

 15 




218 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1878. 



nearly quadrate, very slightly narrowed above, the third larger 

 than first, truncate at tij) and narrowed one-half towards marginal; 

 legs with ochraceons or pale ochraceous pubescence, long and 

 dense on posterior pair, tiiat on base of posterior tarsi witiiin 

 fuscous or black; abdomen covered with a short appvessed whitish 

 or cinereous pubescence, not entirel}' concealing the surface, that 

 on extreme apical margin of the segments dense and forming 

 narrow l)ands, apex of fifth segment and the sixth more or less 

 fuscous. Length .30-.35 inch. 



Hah. Texas, New Mexico, Ari/conn. Six specimens. 



MelisEodes Sumichrasti. 



9. — ]>lack; head clothed witli short cinereous pubescence, that 

 on vertex and occiput longer and mixed with fuscous ; thorax above 

 with a short dense bright fulvo-ferruginous pubescence, that on 

 the sides and beneath cinereous ; togulie fulvo-testaceous ; wings 

 subhyaline, tinged with 3'ellow, nervures fuscous, second submar- 

 ginal cell about half the length of first, subtriangular, being nar- 

 rowed above, the third shorter than first and only slightly narrowed 

 towards marginal ; legs with pale pubescence, that on tarsi fuscous; 

 abdomen with very short fuscous pubescence, that on first segment 

 pale, segments 1-4 each with an ai)ical band of dense appressed 

 pale ochraceous pile ; ventral segments fringed with pale pubes- 

 cence. Length .35-.40 inch. 



%. — Pubescence of thorax much i:)aler than on 9; four posterior 

 legs incrassate, the tarsi long and slender, and ferruginous at tips; 

 pubescence of abdomen pale ochraceous, the bands on all the seg- 

 ments narrow. Length .40 inch. 



Hah. Mexico (Sumichrast). Fifteen specimens* 



Melissodes bituberculata. 



%, — Black; head, thorax, legs, and base of abdomen thickly 

 clothed with a dense long whitish pubescence, more or less tinged 

 with ochraceous on head and thorax above; tip of cl^-peus and 

 vertex smooth and shining; tegulse rufo-piceous ; wings pale fusco- 

 hj'aline, nervures black, second submarginal cell about half the 

 length of first, slightly narrowed above, the third rather longer 

 than first, truncate at tip and narrowed one-half towards marginal ; 

 the pubescence of legs long and silk3'-white, on outer side of four 

 posterior tiliiie it is short appressed and pale fuscous ; posterior legs 

 incrassate, basal joint of their tarsi curved, the tip beneath flattened 




1818.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 219 



and prolonged ; abdomen shining, clothed with pale pubescence, 

 that on middle of segments 3-6 mixed with fiiscons, apical margin 

 of 2-6 each with a narrow fascia of short dense white pubescence, 

 sides of apex and venter with white pubescence, apex prominently 

 bituberculate. Length .45-.50 inch. 



Hab. California (Crotch). Three specimens. 



Melissodes toluca. 



9 Black; face and occiput clothed with ochraceous pubes- 

 cence, sometimes more or less fulvous, that on cheeks whitish ; 

 mandibles with a vvhite spot at base; thorax with a whitish pubes- 

 cence behind, laterally, and beneath; mesothorax densely punc- 

 tured, opaque, with a ver}- short, sparse fuscous pubescence, longer 

 and more dense on sides of scutellum ; tegulis piceous ; wings 

 In'aline, nervures black, second submarginal cell about one-third 

 the length of first, subtriangular, the third nearly as long as first, 

 subtruncate at tip and narrowed one-half towards marginal ; legs 

 piceous or black, thinl}- clothed with pale pubescence, posterior 

 tibiffi and tarsi with a long, loose floccus of blackish-plumose 

 pubescence, more or less mixed with cinereous beneath; abdomen 

 shining, black, basal segment with a little pale pubescence at base, 

 apical margin of segments 1-4 with a narrow fascia of white or 

 yellowish-white pubescence, more or less interrupted on 1 and 2 

 medially. Length .28-.32 inch. 



%. — Resembles the 9, but with the pubescence of head and 

 thorax more dense; mandibles with a white spot at base; legs 

 with pale pubescence, posterior femora and tibiae A^ery robust, 

 inner side of their tibite flat with a short tooth on inner margin 

 towards the tip, and basal joint of their tarsi wnth a small tooth 

 on inside towards the base; abdomen with a narrow line of white 

 pubescence at apex of all the segments except the last, which is 

 pointed and whitish. Length .25 inch. 



Hah. Mexico (Sumichrast). Six specimens. This is allied to 

 fulvifrons Smith, but is much smaller and otherwise very dif- 

 ferent. 



Melissodes bombiformis. 



9. — Black; head and thorax clothed with short ochraceous or 

 fulvo-ochraceous pubescence, sparse on face; vertex shining; 

 clj'peus sparsely punctured, nude on the disk; pubescence, of 

 thorax very dense; tegulse fulvo-testaceous ; wings fuscous, paler 




220 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACAKE.MY OF [1S7S. 



on apical margin, dctvuios l»l:iek, secoiul subniartrinal cell altont. 

 two-thirds the length of first, narrowed aljove, the third sliorter 

 than first, rounded at ti}; and narrowed nearly one-hall" towards 

 marginal; legs piceous, the pubescence l>lack, mixed with pale on 

 anterior iKvir, that on posterior legs long; abdomen opacjue, with 

 very short black or I'uscous pul)escenee, tiiat on first segment 

 sometimes mixed with ochraceous. Lengtii .55-.T0 incii. 



%. — Closely resembles the 9; clypeus and labrum witli short 

 dense ochraceous pubescence; antenntc short as in 9; legs robust, 

 especially the posterior pair, the pubescence very short, black, 

 ochraceous on coxae, trochanters and anterior femora beneath, 

 four posterior tarsi long, the basal joint of posterior pair long 

 and curved; basal segment of abdonun clotiied with short dense 

 ochraceous pubescence, that on venter with black or fuscous. 

 Length ,60 inch. 



Mab. Virginia, Georgia, Kansas. Six specimens. This has 

 much the appearance of certain species of Bombus. 



Tetralonia Gabbii. 



9 . — Large, black, clothed with black pubescence, that on labrum 

 fuscous; mandibles with a yellowish line; wings fusco-hyaline, 

 darker at base, nervures black; pubescence of legs entireh' black; 

 abdomen above except first segment covered with a short very 

 dense ochraceous pubescence, that on first segment long and 

 black. Length .85 inch. 



%. — Clypeus and base of mandibles yellow; antennae short as 

 in 9 ; apical segment of abdomen flattened and quadrate above, 

 the sides carinate and the apical margin truncate; venter smooth 

 and polished, piceous. Length .85 inch. 



Hab. Costa Rica (W. M. Gabb). Five specimens. 

 Tetralonia apiculata. 



9 Black; head clothed with ochraceous pubescence, mixed 



with black on occiput; thorax clothed with black pubescence, that 

 on mesothorax anteriorly and laterally mixed with ochraceous; 

 wings subhyaline, nervures black ; pubescence of legs entirely' 

 black; two basal segments of abdomen black, shining, the first 

 with a little black pubescence at base, remaining segments covered 

 with a short dense bright fulvous pile; ventral segments fringed 

 with fulvous pubescence. Length .55 inch. 



Mab. Cosla Rica (Gabb). One specimen. 




1878.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 221 



Megacilissa mexicana. 



9. — Black; head clothed with a griseous pubescence, that on 

 face and vertex intermixed with fuscous ; flagellum dull testa- 

 ceous beneath ; thorax above clothed witli a short dense fulvous 

 pubescence, that on the sides and beneath pale ochraceous inter- 

 mixed with fuscous; tegulse pale fulvous; wings ^yellowish hyaline, 

 dusky on apical margin, second submarginal cell small, narrow, 

 nearl}-^ pointed towards marginal; legs clothed with fuscous 

 pubescence, that on posterior femora and til)i8e beneath dense 

 and ochraceous, basal joint of posterior tarsi short and broad; 

 abdomen with a greenish-blue reflection, strongly pale sericeous, 

 first segment clothed with a short fulvous pubescence, that on 

 extreme sides of remaining segments long and golden-ochraceous, 

 that on the two apical segments long and fuscous, intermixed with 

 ochraceous ; venter piceous, fulvo-testaceous at base of the seg- 

 ments, which are fringed at apex with a long pale fulvous pubes- 

 cence. Length .Y5 inch. 



Hab. Mexico (Sumichrast). One specimen. 



Megacilissa electa. 



%. — Black; head and thorax clothed with a short dense fulvous 

 pubescence, paler laterally and beneath; wings pale yellowish 

 hyaline, dusky on apical margin, second submarginal cell about 

 one-tiiird the length of first and narrowed nearly one-half towards 

 the marginal ; legs long and slender, clothed with ochraceous 

 pubescence, tibi;\i and tarsi pale fulvous; abdomen clothed with a 

 short black pubescence, longer on apical segments, that on first 

 segment above and two basal segments beneath, ochraceous, ex- 

 treme sides of second dorsal segment fringed with pale ochraceous 

 pubescence. Length .tS inch. 



Hab. Georgia (Morrison). One specimen. 




222 PROOEEDINOS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1878 



May 21. 

 Mr. Thomas Meeiian, Vice-I'rosident, in tlic cliair. 

 Twenty-seven persons present. 



Knee-joint of the Kangaroo. — Dr. A. J. Pakkek remarked that 

 in studying the anatomy of various animals, but little attention 

 has been given to tlie comparative structure of the articulations. 

 One reason for this is, that fulfilling as they do mechanical func- 

 tions almost similar in different animals, their structure varies but 

 little. In examining the knee-joint of the kangaroo, however, an 

 arrangement of ligaments was met with so different from what is 

 ordinaril}' found in this joint that it deserves some attention. In 

 man the knee-joint is the most complex of all the articulations, 

 and in the kangaroo it is even more complex than in man. This 

 is in accordance with the increased functional use of tlie joint in 

 this animal. In making its immense leaps, the knee-joint l>ecomes 

 the centre on which tlie greater part of the strain is exerted and 

 it requires a corresponding strength of structure. This increase 

 in strength and stability is secured by a peculiar arrangement of 

 the ligaments corresponding to the crucial ligaments of man. 

 These ligaments are three in number and are arranged in a very 

 interesting and complex manner. The posterior horn of tlie ex- 

 ternal semilunar fibro-cartilage is free and runs continuously into 

 the fibrous tissue of a crucial ligament which proceeds forwards 

 and inwards, and is inserted into the inter-condyloid fossa. The 

 ligament being thus free at its posterior portion would tend to ride 

 upw'ards, but this is prevented b^' a sta}' ligament which runs from 

 about the middle point of this crucial ligament posteriorly, and 

 is inserted at the posterior part of the spine of the tibia internally, 

 thus keeping it firml}^ in position. A second crucial ligament 

 arises anteriorly in front of the spine of the tibia, proceeds 

 obliquely upwards and backwards, and is inserted into the inter- 

 condyloid fossa crossing the first ligament obliquely as in man. 

 It also has a stay ligament running from its middle point back- 

 wards, and is attached at the posterior internal part of the spine 

 of the tibia at about the same point with the stay ligament run- 

 ning from the first crucial ligament. It is this arrangement of 

 stay ligaments that gives the joint its complex character, and so 

 well fits it to resist strain tending to displace the articular surfaces. 

 A third ligament arises posteriorly and proceeds upwards and 

 forwards crossing the course of the other two, and is also inserted 

 into the inter cond^ioid fossa internally. Thus there are, counting 

 the two stay ligaments, five distinct ligaments in the knee-joint of 

 the kangaroo as compared with two as found in man, which gives to 




1878.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 223 



the joint a, A-^ery interesting and peculiar mechanical structure. 

 There are no lioamenta alaria or mucosa. 



May 28. 

 Mr. Thomas Meehan, Yice-President, in the chair. 

 Twentj'-three persons present. 



On Polyxenes fasciculatus. — Mr. J. A. Ryder announced that 

 he had identified themyriapod Polyxenes faaciculatus. Say, in the 

 vicinity of the city at several places in tlie parlc. It was found that 

 its morphological history agreed with that of P. lagurus, of Europe, 

 as detailed by Bode,' but there was the same paucity of males as 

 ol)served b}' that naturalist. The presence of the hooks terminat- 

 ing the caudal bristles was an independent discovery so far as the 

 American spei'ies was concerned, Mr. Ryder not having seen 

 Bode's paper until thi-ee cUxys after his own observations had been 

 made. Upon comparing these parts of the two species together 

 we find the ends of tlie bristles, according to Bode, in the European 

 species bent in the form of a semicircle, with the subterminal pro- 

 cesses depending parallel to each other from within the arc; in our 

 species, on the other hand, the bristle terminates in two barbed 

 divaricating points directed forwards, forming a subacute angle 

 with the supporting shaft of the l)ristle, the subterminal processes 

 depending within the angle on the supporting shaft next the 

 animal. This new locality indicates a wide distribution for the 

 animal, viz., from Georgia, where it was first discovered by Say, 

 to Massachusetts, where it lias been found by Packard. 



Corundum in North Carolina. — Joseph Willcox said that he 

 desired to place on record a locality for Corundum recent!}'- dis- 

 covered in Iredell Co., North Carolina. Xear Statesville, as the' 

 southern limit, it is found associated witli Kyanite and Serpentine. 

 It is also found at several localities f(n' a distance of twenty miles 

 nearly northeast of Statesville, and at its northern limit it is 

 associated witii Steatite, Actinolite, and Damourite. No laro-e 

 specimens of Corundum have 3'et been found at this locality. 



Prof. Gumesindo Mendoza, of Mexico, and Stephen Bowers of 

 Santa Barbara, Cal., were elected Correspondents. 

 The following paper w^as ordered to be printed : — 



' Zt'itsch. f. die gesammten Naturwisseiischaften. 3te folge, Berlin, 1877. 

 Bd. II., 8vo. pp. 233-2(58, PL 11-14. 




224 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACAHEMY OF [1S78. 



TRANSITION FORMS IN CRINOIDS, AND DESCRIPTION OF 

 FIVE NEW SPECIES. 



BY CHARLES WACHS.MUTH AND FRANK Sl'RINiiKK. 



The subcarboniferous rocks of the Mississippi Valley have been 

 divided, by geologists generally, into five divisions or gronps, viz., 

 the Kinderhook, Burlington, Keoknk, 8t. Louis, and Chester, which 

 occur in the order named ; the Kinderhook being the lowest and 

 oldest. Full accounts of these formations may l)e found in the 

 Reports of the Geological Surveys of Iowa and Illinois, to which 

 we refer for detailed information. Of these groups, the IJurlington 

 and Keokuk limestones, extending in vertical range from llie 

 Oolite bed, which forms the summit of the Kinderliook, into the 

 Gcode bed, which apparently forms the boundary l)etwcen the 

 Keokuk and St. Louis limestones, are characterizecl in their fossil 

 remains by a great predominance of crinoids. They are thereby 

 somewhat conspicuously distinguished from the other members of 

 the subcarboniferous series. It is to these crinoidal Ix'ds that our 

 observations are at present limited. Their fossiliferous character 

 is well known, and we may add that there is probably no region 

 in the world which exhibits, within the same limited geographical 

 extent, so great and uninterrupted a range of crinoidal deposits 

 in geological succession, almost unaltered In' disturbing forces, 

 and which at the same time affords such a variety and abundance 

 of well preserved specimens for accurate comparative stud}', as 

 the vicinity of Burlington, Iowa, and the neighboring exposures 

 of the Keokuk limestone, within a few miles to the soutli and 

 southwest. 



In 1860, in the Boston Jouin. of Xat. Hist., vol. VII, No. ii. 

 Dr. C. A. White gave a very interesting account of the geology 

 of the Burlington region, and pointed out the relations, as then 

 understood, of the formations here exposed, with each other, and 

 with those occurring in the series above and below. It was shown 

 that the Burlington limestone consists of two divisions, separated 

 from each other by beds of silicious shales, chert and cherty 

 limestones of A'arying thickness : that these divisions were charac- 

 terized by striking differences in their fossil remains; that the 

 upper division was succeeded in turn by an accumulation of sili- 




1878,] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 225 



cious beds, above which appeared the Keokuk limestone, differing 

 from the Burlington beds in the specific characters of its fossils, 

 as well as in lithological characters ; that the three formations 

 presented in their crinoidal remains three successive grades of 

 development, those of the lower bed being generally of small size 

 and delicac}^ of construction and ornament, those of the upper 

 bed being of stronger construction and ruder form, while in the 

 Keokuk the\' reach a culmination of rudeness and extravagance of 

 form and size. He states that few, if any, species of these fossils 

 are common to both beds of tlie Burlington limestone, and that it 

 is hardlj' probable that any will be found common to the Burling- 

 ton and Keokuk. The same writer, in the Geology of Iowa, 1870, 

 vol. I, p. 202, says that the separation of the formations of the 

 subcarbouiferous group from each other is abrupt and distinctly 

 defined ; that the interposition of silicious beds constitutes pale- 

 ontological boundaries between them ; and that the change in the 

 lithological character of each deposit toward the close of each 

 epoch, seems to have had the effect to check, and finally to arrest 

 the progress of those forms of life which previouslj' existed in 

 great profusion ; and that with the resumption of calcareous de- 

 posits in the succeeding epoch, similar, if not identical forms, 

 were introduced, which flourished and progressed until arrested 

 again by similar deposits of silicious strata. And on page 203, 

 speaking of the two divisions of the Burlington limestone, he 

 says : " It seems that the accession of silicious material to the 

 waters of that epoch resulted in, or at least was followed b}-, the 

 extermination of all the species of crinoids then existing, and 

 although they flourished in just as great profusion when the calca- 

 reous condition of the waters was restored, they were all of new- 

 species, these being all in turn exterminated by the accession of 

 the silicious material which we find to mark the close of the full 

 epoch of the Burlington limestone." 



Such may be taken as the prevalent opinion among geologists 

 and paleontologists as to the faunal independence of these three 

 formations, although Dr. White does not deem it expedient to 

 recognize hvo distinct formations in the Burlington beds, as pro- 

 posed by Xiles and Wachsmuth in Amer. Journ. Science, Jnly, 

 1866, and as in practice is done by all the later paleontologists and 

 collectors, it being shown by experience that in their organic re- 

 mains, particularly crinoidal, the distinction between the two 




220 PKOCEKPINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1878. 



I5iirlini;ton heels is imicli more sliiirply iiijirkod and clearh' (lefined 

 than hetween the upper hed and the Keokuk limestone. Tlie 

 geologic independence of tiie two latter beds has been scrupu- 

 lously regarded l»y paleontologists, and in no ease within our 

 knowledge has a single species of crinoid, out of the many hun- 

 dreds dcscril)ed, been noted as occurring in bolli formations. 

 Indeed, it would seem, judging from the descriptions, tiiat the 

 increase in new species would serve to confirm their separation. 

 r>iit an observer who is familiar with the stratigraphy, as well as 

 the fauna of these rocks, thrcnighout their whole vertical range, 

 obtains an entirel}^ dilierent impression. Of the man}' distin- 

 guished paleontologists whose labors have contributed to our 

 knowledge of the fauna of these beds, the mnjorit}' were not them- 

 selves collectors, and they were therefore destitute of that personal 

 familiarit}' with the mode of occurrence of these fossils, which is 

 so iujportant an aid to an accurate understanding of their rela- 

 tions. The material on which new species have been descril)ed 

 has often been comparatively limited, and specific characters were 

 readily distinguished in a single specimen which could not have 

 been defined in a large series. There has also been some confu- 

 sion, we believe, in regard to the actual horizon of the t3'pes of 

 new species collected by various parties along the border land 

 between the Burlington and Keokuk, some localities being referred 

 to the one or tlie other, when in fact they belonged exclusively to 

 neither. Furthermore, the two beds being thus for a long period 

 considered as independent, it came to be regarded, as we have 

 already seen, as an inflexible rule that their species must be dis- 

 tinct, as was also the case with the Burlington beds. Accordingl}', 

 new forms from the one or the other were brought within the rule, 

 and specific distinctions were to some extent assumed to exist 

 because of difference in geological horizon, thus illustrating the 

 tendency to reason in a circle, into which even the most careful 

 investigators, working in a single lino, will occasional!}' fall. 



^Ye have been led b\' our researches to the conclusion that there 

 is a much more intimate connection between these formations than 

 has been generally supposed, and that the assumed extermination 

 of organic forms at the close of each epoch, and the appearance 

 in the next of new and distinct forms, cannot be reconciled with 

 the facts which have been brought to light. 



There is no doubt that the introduction of silicious matter in 




18Y8.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 227 



great abundance into the waters was largely destructive of dfti- 

 iioidal life, and had also an important influence in producing the 

 changes observed in the crinoids of the successive deposits. It 

 seems, indeed, when there was too much of it, growth was arrested 

 and life destrojed ; but when it existed in the waters in moderate 

 proportion, along with calcareous constituents, its presence was 

 favorable to existence and individual growth. It is on the upper 

 surface of cherty layers in the Burlington and Keokuk beds, that 

 we find most of the "colonies" or local deposits of well-preserved 

 specimens, and from the upper beds to and including the Keokuk, 

 there is more or less of silicious matter in the matrix and in the 

 fossils themselves. Tlie strata which compose the beds of passage 

 between the three beds are mostly impure cherty limestone, in 

 which the proportions of silicious and calcareous constituents 

 var}^, and it is a fact that throughout these deposits, wherever a 

 little bed of limestone appears, or the chert becomes rather cal- 

 careous in its composition, we find the remains of abundant cri- 

 noidal life, although mostly in imperfect preservation. 



It thus seems that, notwithstanding the destruction caused by 

 the silicious influx, some of the crinoids survived here and there, 

 and struggled through until more favorable conditions again pre- 

 vailed. In proof of this, we have the fact that throughout the 

 cherty deposits between the Upper and Lower Burlington beds, 

 we find more or less the remains of crinoids, usually in the form 

 of casts and ver^^ imperfect, yet sufficiently distinct to be recog- 

 nized as Actinocrinus^ Pla'ycrinus, etc. But it is in the beds of 

 passage between the Burlington and Keokuk that we find the 

 most satisfactory evidence of the persistence of crinoidal types, 

 and these with the crinoids found therein form the basis of this 

 paper. 



The close of the Upper Burlington limestone (as heretofore con- 

 sidered) was marked bj' an extraordinary destruction of fishes, 

 whose remains, in the form of teetli and spines, are found in the 

 greatest profusion in a stratum two to ten inches in thickness, 

 which occurs at the very top of the regular limestone beds. It 

 is one of the best stratigraphic landmarks that we know in this 

 formation, as it is found over a wide area in localities over a 

 hundred miles apart, and always in the same position relative to 

 the heavy limestone beds. It is succeeded immediately bj'-x.'herty 

 layers, sometimes in regular bands and sometimes in irregular 




21S l'ROf'F,KniN(iS OF TIIK ACAKKMY uF [1878. 



masses, \Vitli the interstices filled witli a fine, brownish-red, sili- 

 eious cImv. These layers averaiie about six to eij^lit feet in total 

 thickness, and aliove them tiieie appears a stratum of whitish- 

 gra^' crystalline limc^stone, fiom one to two feet thiek, on the 

 upper surface of whicli, and oidy on the surface, so far as ob- 

 served, is f()in)d another deposit of fish remains. This is suc- 

 ceeded by two or three thinner layers of similar texture, separated 

 l)y silieions shales and yellowish sand, and above these occur 

 other irrennlar beds of argillaceous and chert}' limestones of 

 A'arying thickness, which pass gradually and imperceptibly into 

 the l)lnish-gi-ay limestones of the Keokuk proper. These deposits, 

 iVoin the first lish bed up to the Keokuk limestone, we designate, 

 simply to save repeated explanations, as the " transition beds." 

 They are found well exposed near lUirlington, and at Augusta 

 and Pleasant Grove, Iowa, both within twent}' miles of Burling- 

 ton, and at Sagetown and Nauvoo, Illinois, at all of which locali- 

 ties we have carefully studied them. At Xauvoo they are much 

 thickened, and are seen above the town from the water's edge well 

 up into the bluffs, which are capped by the Keokuk limestone, 

 while in the extensive quarries below the town, only the Keokuk 

 limestone has been exposed. A want of attention to these facts 

 has caused some confusion as to the true horizon of the species 

 described from that locality, all being referred to the Keokuk, 

 whereas we have found at the upper localit}' true Burlington 

 species, such as Granatocrinas Soyi and other well-marked species. 

 The transition beds are more or less fossiliferous throughout, 

 though the occurrence of the fossils is irregular and their i)reserva- 

 tion very variable. They exhibit in an irregular manner the litho- 

 logic characters of both formations, while the crinoidal remains 

 which have been obtained from them show such an intermingling 

 and blending of the Burlington and Keokuk species, that it is 

 impossible to say where the one begins and the other ends. The 

 majority of the crinoids found in them can neither be called Bur- 

 lington nor Keokuk species, and may often be identified as either. 

 The}^ constitute a kind of intermediate type between them, and 

 throw much light upon the growth of the individual and the 

 development of species in course of time. 



Our late investigations confirm the opinion, long held b}' us, 

 that tiie Keokuk limestone and the Upper and Lower Burlington 

 beds are only subdivisions of one geological formation, which might 




18t8.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 229 



appropriately be called the "crinoidal limestone." A considerable 

 nnmber of the fossils, under consideration herein, were obtained 

 from a single la3'er of limited extent in the fish bed at the top of 

 the Upper Burlington limestone. They are of comparatively few 

 species, and those are extremel}' rare in other localities, but at 

 this spot they seem to have flourished in extraordinarj'^ abundance. 

 These specimens form so important a part of our material tliat, 

 to avoid repeated allusions to the locality, we refer to them always 

 as the " fish-bed fossils." 



In the following pages we shall endeavor to illustrate in detail, 

 with the excellent material at our command, largel}- collected with 

 sjjecial reference to this subject, the transition between the forms 

 of crinoids in the Upper Burlington and Keokuk beds, whicli we 

 believe will possess geological as well as zoological interest. 



It is to be regretted that greater attention has not been hitherto 

 paid to tb' Individual growth of crinoids. We liave made collec- 

 tions expressly' for the purpose of illustrating different stages of 

 development, and have found it to be the rule, that in young 

 crinoids, the basals are the most perfectly developed parts. They 

 attain nearly their full size in young individuals, greater in pro- 

 portion than the subradials and radials, whicli are comparatively 

 early developed, and at a time when the interradial and anal plates 

 have scarcely made their appearance. The latter develop the 

 slowest, and in some genera increase continually both in size and 

 number during the growth of the individual. We also find that 

 abnormal growths, or sudden modifications of specific characters, 

 almost always take place in the interradial and anal areas, the 

 posterior rays, and consequently in the dome. Species have been 

 multiplied by attaching too much importance to characters based 

 on such modifications as the comparative size of the base, the 

 number of interradial and anal plates, a more or less elongate 

 form, etc., which we believe are due in many cases to individual 

 growth, and which in species, when found in a later geological 

 epoch, form mere variations of the same species, as will be proved 

 most conclusively by the following genera. 



1. BATOCKINUS, Casseday. 



This genus is separated by Meek and Worthen into two sec- 

 tions, 111. Geol. Rept., vol. Y, p. 304, to which we refer fov> a full 

 discussion of the generic characters and relations. In the first 




230 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1SV8. 



section, B. C/n-ish/i is included, while //. pi/riforinis falls under 

 the second. 'IMie two species form the tyijcs of two little groups 

 of crinoids, which exhibit some very interesting features in con- 

 nection with the siieecssion of the crinoidal beds; l)oth are vi}vy 

 common and characteristic sjjecies of the Upper Huriinffton, and 

 were described by Shuniard in vol. II. (Jeol. Surv. ]\ro.y, with <rood 

 figures, and figures of more perfect s))ecimens are given in vol. V. 

 Ills. Geol. Ilept. PI. Y. There is a general difference in form and 

 outline between the two species, but their chief distinction, and 

 the one which produces apparently all the other constant dilier- 

 ences, is that B. jnjriformi>< has 20 arms, one from each opening; 

 while B. Ghrislyi has two arms (o each arm opening, or 40 in all. 

 This feature of B. ChrUtyi has been for some time known, but 

 hitherto the anatomical construction which produces it has not 

 been understood, and this we are now enabled to explain. B. 

 Christyi, in its t^'pical form, has in each ray 3 primary, 2 

 secondary, and 2 tertiary radials, or radials of the third order, 

 or as they are more commonl}' designated " brachials." The 

 latter term is used for that series of radial plates within the liod}' 

 walls, which leads to an arm opening. The upper margin of the 

 second or last of these brachial plates, is somewhat excavated, and 

 in the rear of this cavity, the arm opening breaks through. In 

 very well preserved specimens, when the arms have been removed, 

 there may be seen upon the floor of this excavated margin, a 

 narrow indented scar, extending from the arm opening directly 

 outward. We have found resting upon this scar a very small, 

 narrow, triangular or pentagonal plate, often, when the arms are 

 attached, not visible from the outside. This is a rudimentary 

 bifurcating plate, and corresponds to a third tertiar}- radial or 

 brachial plate. Upon it, the arms divide, and just at the open- 

 ing, on either side of it, is another small, short plate upon which 

 the arms parti}- rest, the thin, small plates filling the excavated 

 upper margin of the last brachial plate. Referring now to the 

 dome, we find the double arm feature most beautifully indicated. 

 Directly above each arm opening, there is a prominent interbra- 

 chial dome plate,' nearl}- round or elliptic in outline, and from 



' For an account of these and other dome plates, as well as the construction 

 of the dome of Paleozoic criuoids in general, see Amer. Journ. Scien. vol. 

 XIV, Sept. 1877, p. 186. 




1878.J NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 231 



low convex to high conical, sharp and projecting over the upper 

 edge of the disk. This row of projecting dome plates is a very 

 characteristic feature of this species, but is entirely wanting in 

 B. jyyriformis, its absence giving to the dome in that species its 

 pyriform aspect and the upward tendencj- of the arm openings; 

 while in B. Christyi, it gives to the arm openings a lateral direc- 

 tion, and to the disk its wheel-like appearance with its wide 

 l^eriphery standing about parallel to the vertical axis. Its pecu- 

 liar office is well shown in one specimen, which has abnormally 

 two extra brachial plates, and two arm openings instead of one in 

 part of the ra}'. Here, a single interbrachial dome plate is situa- 

 ted between the arm openings instead of one over each, and the 

 construction below leaves no doubt, that from these two openings 

 single instead of double arms proceeded. 



B. Christyi is described as having t anals and 4 interradials in 

 3 ranges P:.^h, and radials 3X2X2. Another species descrilied 

 by Meek and Worthen in vol. V, 111. Geol. Kept. p. 312, under 

 the name of B. trochiscus, belongs to this group, but has a more 

 spreading disk, a more concave dome and a comparatively lower 

 body than B. Christyi; it is described as having 12 anals and 6 

 interradials in 4 ranges each; radials 3X2X2 with an extra 

 radial of the third order (or brachial plate) in some parts of the 

 rays, and 1 or 2 interaxillary or iutersupraradial pieces. The 

 second radial of the third order is long, bent upward, and about 

 the arm opening constructed exactly as in B. Christyi. The same 

 interbrachial dome plate is found over each opening, very sharp 

 and prominent, and although B. trochiscus has never been found 

 with any portion of the arms attached, we feel entirely certain 

 that when discovered, the}' will be found to be double from tlieir 

 origin. 



Batocrinus playiodiscns, Hall (sp.), (Supplem. to Iowa Rept. 

 p. 45) is of the same tj'pe, and has a form similar to B. trochiscus 

 with a much greater expansion of the disk, caused by an enor- 

 mous development of the higher radial and interradial series. It 

 has, according to diagram, 3 radials of the first order, 2 or 3 of 

 the second, 2 or 3 of the third, and 1 or 2 of the fourth, or brachial 

 pieces; 15 interradials in 9 ranges; 9 to 11 intersupraradials, 5 

 or 6 interaxillary plates between the series of radials of the third 

 order, and it has 40 arm openings. The addition to the stnvL'ture 

 of B. trochiscus of another series of radials within the body walls. 




2.02 PROCEKDINOK OF THK ACAUKMY OF [1878. 



and iiitcraxilhiry plates l)et\vet'ii tlicm, causes tlic arms, wliieli, in 

 that species, divided at tlie opening;, to separate in Ji. planodiscus 

 Avitliin llie Ixxly, and to emerge simple from liieir ori;i;in. //. 

 ('hrif<liii. ranges tluongli the Upper lini'lington into tlie division 

 beds. B. (rocliiscioi is Ibnnd only in the transition bed, while JJ. 

 lilaiKxJixriis is said to be from the Keokuk, although the type 

 specimen came from Nauvoo, and there is the usual uncertainty 

 in reuard to its real horizon. 



Now we liave before us about 50 good specimens of I^. C/n-isli/i 

 from tlie Upper Burlington of various localities, all of which, by 

 their peculiar aspect, are readily referred to this si)ecies. We find 

 in them a wide variation in form, some being tall, with dome much 

 elevated and rising uniformly- from the margin of the brachial disk 

 to the subcentral proboscis, others nearly turbinate below, with 

 almost no expansion of the disk, and others having a low, broad l}-, 

 and rajiidly spreading calyx, with concave sides and a nearly flat 

 summit. The proboscis is in small specimens, so far as ol)served, 

 smooth, while in larger ones, it is rough, nodose, and spiniferous, 

 the latter being generally the case in those found high uj) in the 

 rock. Between these extremes there is every gradation. In these 

 specimens, we find the following variations in body-structure: 

 Anals, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, and 21, in 3, 4, 5, and ranges; inter- 

 radials, 2, 3, 4, 5, and fi, in 2, 3, and 4 ranges, with variations of 

 2, 3, and 4 in different parts of the same individual. The radial 

 series is 3 X 2 X 2, except in one specimen (the one with 11 anals), 

 which, on the inner branch of one posterior ray, has an additional 

 bifurcation, giving 5 arm openings to that ra}-, or 21 to the speci- 

 men, one double arm being replaced by two simple ones, as in B. 

 planodiscus. Three others show simple arras from two oi)enings. 

 Another specimen (with 21 anals) has in one branch of a ra}- the 

 rudimentary bifurcating plate developed into a nearly full-sized 

 bifurcating third brachial. 



In ten specimens of B. trochiscus from various localities in the 

 transition bed, we find the following variations in structure: 

 anals, 7, 8, 12, and 13 in 3, 4, 5, and 6 ranges ; interradials 4, 6, 7, 

 and S in 3 and 5 ranges ; interaxillary pieces (intersupraradials), 

 to 1 and 2 ; radials, 3X2X2, with occasionally extra brachial 

 bifurcating plates in some of the rays, giving in these parts the 

 formula 3X2X3. In some mature specimens there is in some 

 places a narrow interbrachial plate inserted between the radials 




1878.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 233 



of the third order, producing an expansion of the disk ; and in one 

 of them (evidently \evy mature), the interradial areas are much 

 depressed, and the radial series elevated and rounded, giving to 

 the calyx, as seen from below, a ten-rayed appearance. The pro- 

 boscis, in specimens from the transition bed, is greatly developed, 

 being very long^ and its plates spiniferous. 



We have never seen a specimen of B. planocliscits, but from the 

 description and diagram, it is evident tuat this species has the 

 same fundamental construction as the two preceding ones. The 

 only important difference to be found is, in the additional bifurca- 

 tion of the radial series within the body, and as a consequence of 

 this structure, in the double number of arm openings. B. Christyi 

 and B. trocliiscus^ though having 40 arms also, have but 20 arm 

 openings, and the arms really branch after emerging from the body. 

 In them, the small bifurcating plate which we have described, and 

 upon which -.he arms divide, is evidently a rudimentary free 

 radial, and the two plates beside it, which in B. Christyi were 

 only arm plates, become developed in B. planodiscus into true 

 radials and form a part- of the body. That this is not a mere con- 

 jecture on our part is demonstrated by the individual growth of 

 crinoids generallj*. The young Strotocrinus for instance, thongh 

 having the same number of arms as the adult, has but 4 arm 

 openings to each ray. The radials of the higher orders, which in 

 adult specimens form a part of the hody walls, are here still free 

 arms, unsupported by any interradial or interaxillarj^ pieces, which 

 subsequently fill the spaces betv,-een them ; but the number of arm 

 openings of the nascent crinoid increases to the full number of 

 arms in proportion to the increase of the upward growth of the 

 body. This is exactl}' the case in B. joJanodiscus, and it will thus 

 be seen that B. Christyi and B. frochiscus represent earlier stages 

 of development, and that, as we have seen before, the two later 

 forms differ from the older by those characters which appeared 

 irregularly in B. Christyi, and became more fixed and general in 

 the succeeding types. 



B. py7-iformis, whose most important distinction from B. 

 Christyi has been mentioned, is described with 7 or 8 anals in 4 

 ranges ; 5 or 6 interradials in 3 or 4 ranges ; radials, 3X2X1 

 (see vol. V, 111. Geol. Kept. p. 375, where Meek and Worthen give 

 a revised description). It ranges through the Upper Burlington 

 IG 




234 PROCKEDINOS OF THE ACAKKMY OF [1878. 



into the transition hods, wIhtc the /»'. XaahoiUae form prodonii- 

 nates. 



7?. A'^fls/m///;*', Troost. from t lie Kfokiik liiiiostono, isof tlie same 

 typo, Imt is hirgcr, mikI its l)0(ly and doiiu- plates are moi-e iioditse, 

 the interradial areas eonstrieted, so that the l)ody is divicU-d into 

 lobes. It is deseriltcd by Hall in vol. I, pt. il, Iowa Geol. Rept. 

 p. 600, with 8 or aiials, ij to 10 interradials, and an intersupra- 

 radial plate between the radials of the second order in every ray; 

 radials, 3X2X1; arms, 20. 



B. Nashmllse var. Hublractus^ White, was described (Proceed. 

 Bost. Soc. Nat. Hist. 18G2, p. 10) as agreeing with the last 

 species, except that it generally' lacked the intersn[)ra-radial plate, 

 this being found in one ra\' only. It was said to occur in' tlie 

 Upper Burlington. 



In upwards of 40 good specimens of B. pyriformif^ examined, 

 we find a great variet}' in form. , In some, the bod}' expands 

 gradually and uniforml}' from the base to the arm bases, giving a 

 turbinated outline below; while in others, it remains of nearly 

 uniform size to the top of the second radials, when it suddenl}'' 

 and rapid)}' expands ; the radials of the second order and brachials 

 being in a plane nearly at right angles to the vertical axis. In 

 some specimens, two-tliirds of the body is below the arm bases, 

 and in others, scarcely one-third. In some, the brachial disk is 

 continuous; in others, the interradial areas are somewhat de- 

 pressed, and the body shows a tendency to become lobed. Between 

 these extremes there is almost every shade of difference. In the 

 structure of tlie body we find the following variations: anals, 6, 

 7, 8, 9, and 11, in 4 and 5 ranges ; interradials, 3, 4, 5, 6, and 7, in 

 2, 3, 4, and 5 ranges, with differences in the same individual. There 

 are no infersupraradials in any of them. In general, the speci- 

 mens from the upper part of tlie beds are larger, more developed 

 proportionally in the dome, and exhibit the greatest tendency to 

 become lobed. 



The form which Dr. White has described under B. Nashvillae 

 var. sublractus^ is found at the very top of the Upper Burlington, 

 and also in the transition bed. It agrees closely with B. pi/ri- 

 formis^ but is always more or less lobed, and this is the principal 

 distinction between the two forms. In 13 specimens, all from the 

 above horizon, we find the following differences in structure: An- 

 als 9, 10, and 11 in 4, 5, and 6 ranges, interradials, 5, 6, 7, 8, and 9 




1878.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 235 



in 3, 4, and 5 ranges with variations in tlie same individual. As 

 to tlie intersupraradials, upon wliieli White founded liis variety-, 

 we find in some specimens none, and in otiiers one in 1, 3, 4, and 

 even 5 ra3's respectively, while all our Keokuk species of B. Nash- 

 villce proper, have an intersupraradial in every ra}'. But the 

 presence and constanc}' of those plates, is evidentlj^ a natural con- 

 sequence of the greater size of the Keokuk form, and hence of no 

 specific value. 



In B. pyriformis, the proboscis is long, rather strong, with 

 moderately convex plates. In the B. Nashvillse from transition 

 bedfi, the dome is prolonged into a proboscis over five times the 

 height of the calj^x:, the plates of which are convex to slightl}'^ 

 spiniferous. In the B. Nashvillae of Keokuk, the proboscis is 

 similarl}^ elongated, but stronger, composed of very nodose plates, 

 and about niidwa3^ to its summit it is encircled by a row of five 

 very strong spines, nearly an inch long. 



We find that the modifications, thus observed in the successive 

 forms of these two t3'pes, as thej' appear in the rocks, have taken 

 place in exactl}- those parts of the crinoid which are changed by 

 growth; that the prevailing features of the later species are 

 those which in the Burlington t^pes were irregularly developed 

 during the life of the individual ; and that theorder in which these 

 modifications appeared, corresponds verj' closely with the succes- 

 sion of changes from youth to maturiti*. 



2. EEETMOCRINTIS. 



L5'on and Casseday, Am. Journ. Sci. 1859, proposed the above 

 generic name for a t^^pe of Crinoids, principally distinguished b^"" 

 the flattening of the arms in their upper parts. Meek and 

 Worthen, 111. Geol. Rept. vol. Y, p. 367, placed it under Batocri- 

 nus as a subgenus, and made interesting observations on the 

 genus and its associate forms. We have never seen a specimen 

 of Lyon and Casseday 's tj'pical species, and are unable to under- 

 take a discussion of these somewhat complicated generic relations. 

 We are inclined to the opinion, however, that at present the char- 

 acters of Batoc7-inus and EretmocrimiH, are not so clearly* defined 

 as could be desired. Under existing circumstances, we prefer to 

 leave Eretmocrinus where its authors placed it. 



Among the fish-bed fossils, some of the most striking exanfples 

 belong to this type. They exhilnt the peculiar arm structuie in 




236 PIIOCEEDINGS OF TIIK ACADKMY f(F [1S7S. 



a remarkable degree, while they possess a spct-ial interest in con- 

 nection with similar forms from other localities. Tiie specimens 

 here occiining l)clon<>- to a single type. They are cliaracterizecl 

 liy a low, l)roadly calycnlate body, with basal plates in some cases, 

 tliickcned into a slight rim at the margin, and in others project- 

 ing far ont around the cohunn in a tripartitedi.sk. Tiiree brachial 

 plates, in succession, rest above the secondary (or supia) radials, 

 with an ext ra set of radials of the third order, in part of those rays 

 which have five arms. Dome much elevated, pyriform or hemi- 

 spheric; its plates strongly nodose or subspiniferons. The sur- 

 face of the body below the arms is ornamented by rugose ridges, 

 which extend along the middle of tlie radial plates, and follow 

 the branches to tiie arm bases, the latter being separated from 

 each other by indented sutures. These ridges arc in some speci- 

 mens low and obscure; prominent and angular in others. The 

 arms are strong, rather narrow as if laterally compressed, and 

 nearly angular on the outside for about one-fourth their length. 

 They are there ver^^ suddenl}^ flattened, spread ont laterally', and 

 become broad and spatulate, remaining thick and heavy in the 

 middle, and growing thin toward tiie edges. Their breadtii at the 

 widest point is about half an inc^ii on an average, they taper very 

 gradually toward the tips, the lengtii being, in mature specimens, 

 about four inches. They are composed of a double series of inter- 

 locking joints, which are verj' short in the lower, and longer in 

 the spatulate portion of the arms. The former are triangular 

 in their transverse section, the short base being on the under or 

 ventral side of the arm, the longer sides being on the outer or dor- 

 sal margin and slightly convex, while they join in the middle b}'- 

 their shorter sides. The under faces of the joints make ol)tuse 

 re-entering angles with each other, in which the ambulacral furrow 

 is situated. In the flattened portion of the arms, the joints have 

 a triangular cross section, but the position of the triangles is so 

 changed that the}' join in the middle by their bases, the shorter 

 sides are on the flat, dorsal surface of the arm, while the under 

 margins, on the ventral side, which are slightly concave, are the 

 longer sides. The angles opposite the longer sides are a little 

 greater than right angles, so that when closely fitting together 

 by their inner faces, the flattened halves or wings of the arms, are 

 lifted up at their margins, and angidarlv depressed in the middle. 

 It is a remarkable and interesting fact that the halves of the flat- 




18T8.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 23'7 



teued arms, not oiil\' join with each other at the middle b}^ inter- 

 locking angles, but have similar angles at tiieir thin, lateral edges, 

 ■which exactl3' correspond with the angles in the margins of the 

 adjoining arms. Thus the edges of the arms could be united by 

 closely' fitting sutures into a continuous and impenetrable wall, 

 and form an arched dome over the space above the arm bases. 

 Indeed, we always find the arras folded inward at their extremi- 

 ties, no matter in what shape the specimens are crushed. 



We have, from other localities in the Upper Burlington lime- 

 stone, specimens which are perfectly smooth below the arm bases, 

 but which in size, shape, and structure of the arms, agree with 

 the fish-bed si)ecimens very closely. Among a good number of 

 the latter, we lind some with 20 arms, some with 21, and some 

 with 22, the difference being always in the posterior rays, as the 

 others have uniformly 4 arms each. The variation in the surface 

 markings bears no relation to that in the number of arms, for we 

 find the smooth specimens with 20 and 21 arms, and the orna- 

 mental ones with 20, 21, and 22, and we are therefore led to 

 believe that all the specimens under consideration belong to a 

 single species. 



Meek and Worthen, in vol. Y, 111. Gcol. Kept. pi. x. Fig. 5, 

 liaA'e given, under the name of Erelmocrinus remibrachiatus^ 

 Hall, a figure of a specimen which was obtained at the same 

 localit}', though not in immediate association with our present 

 collection of fish-bed fossils. It gives a good idea of the form 

 under consideration, except that in perfect specimens, the flat- 

 tened i)ortion of the arms is at least twice as long as seen in the- 

 figure. It has three brachial plates in the body, and twenty arras. 

 But that specimen, like those before us, clearh' does not belong 

 to E. remihrachiatu)^^ described bj' Hall in his Preliminary 

 Notices,* 1861, j). 11, under ActinocrinuH. His species had, ac- 

 cording to the description, no bod^' plates above the secondary 

 (or supra) radials, and had 16 arms which were rounded below 

 and expanded above the middle, which is a totally different thing 

 from our forms. We have not been able to exactly identify Hall's 

 species, but we have several specimens of a form with but two 

 supraradials iu some parts of the raj's, and a brachial plate in 

 others. It has l-l arms which are very strong, rounded below 

 and flattened above, and we think it belongs to E. remibrachiaius, 




238 PROCEEDINGS OF THE AC.ADEMV (tV [1878. 



tlio lype of wliicli iiiMV liuvi' had, ;il)ii<>nii;illy, an additional arm 

 ill eaeli posterior ray. 



Hall described and liynred in the Iowa llept. [)t. ii. p. Cil.j, |>I. 

 XV. V'\<r. 7, under tiif name Acfiiiocrinus ramulosus, a speelmen 

 wliieli in most respects shows a very near approach to the fish-bed 

 forms. It is referred to the Keokuk limestone, but as it came 

 from Nauvoo, we are left in douljt as to its actual horizon. It 

 may have come from the transition beds, for we have from eor- 

 resjjonding high beds at Augusta, Iowa, where these beds are 

 extensively exposed, a specimen which seems to be almost an 

 exact duplicate of Hall's type as figured. The ridges are com- 

 posed of series of prominent tubercles in the centre of each plate 

 in the radial and brachial series, and there are also, between the 

 ridges, much smaller tubercles distributed around the margin of 

 the anal and interradial plates. It has, moreover, 5 arms in each 

 posterior raj^ or 22 in all, and we have no doubt but that Hall's 

 specimen would have shown the same number, if that portion of 

 the fossil had been preserved. The arms are unknown. A com- 

 parison of our specimen of A. ramulosus^ with the fish-bed forms 

 of Eretmocrinus shows that they are most intimate!}' related. 

 The only difTerence, we can perceive, is the rather greater size 

 and more elaborate ornamentation of the A.ramuloaus^ being dif- 

 ference in degree only, and not in kind. 



We are thus brought to the conclusion that the type we have 

 described, is not specifically distinct from A. ranialoaas, which 

 thus includes forms ranging from the Upper Burlington, through 

 the transition beds, and possibl}^ into the Keokuk. Those who 

 attach great importance to surface markings or minute anatomical 

 dillorences, such as one or two arras more or less, would perhaps 

 find in these specimens the types of several species. But with tlie 

 fossils before us, sullicient in number and preservation forlhorough 

 study and comparison, and exhibiting the intermingling of char- 

 acters we have noted, we can but regard them as varieties of one 

 and the same specific form which will be, of course, Eretmocrinus 

 ramulosus, Hall (sp.). 



In this type we have, again, a most interesting illustration of 

 the gradual shading of Burlington into Keokuk forms, and the 

 intimate relations of the crinoidal remains of the two formations. 




1878.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 239 



3. AGAEICOCRINUS, Troost. 



On bringing together a large number of good specimens of 

 Agaricocrinus from the Upper Burlington, transition and Keokuk 

 beds from various localities, apparently belonging to several spe- 

 cies, we found a satisfactory separation into species according to 

 the descriptions im[jossible. We therefore tiiought to ascertain 

 their relations by a comparison of the specimens before us, without 

 regard to specific names or geological horizon. The comparative 

 simplicity of construction and absence of ornamentation in this 

 genus renders such an investigation more easy than in many other 

 groups. To this end, we noted for each specimen, separately, the 

 characters which in the descriptions have heretofore been con- 

 sidered of specific importance, viz., the form of the dome, of the 

 basal concavity, and of the anal area; the shape and position of 

 the second and tliird radial i)lates ; the form and proportions of 

 the interradials, and the character of the interradial area in the 

 dome; the number of arms; and in addition to these, and not 

 heretofore speciallj' noted, the disposition of the ajMcal plates of 

 the dome. Tabulating tliese data independently of the specimens, 

 we found that they fell naturally into two groups. The first of 

 these is characterized by having the apical plates of the dome 

 separated from each other by small intercalated plates; the central 

 ai)ical plate being tuberculiform and very much larger than its 

 associates or any of the dome plates; the dome pyramidal, anal 

 area flat, and the opening lateral; three arms to each posterior 

 ray; second radial higher than wide; first interradial short, basal 

 concavity small, involving the lower part of the third radial, which 

 is convex. The second group is distinguished by having the 

 apical dome plates connected except at the anal side, the central 

 one not greatly conspicuous above the others; the dome hemi- 

 spherical; the anal area elevated, rounded, or protuberant, with 

 the opening directed upward; the second radials nearly always 

 quadrangulai' and wider than higli. Within this group are forms 

 with 2 arms to each ray, with 3 in one posterior ra}-, with 3 in 

 each posterior ray, with 3 in one posterior ray and 4 in the other, 

 with 4 in each posterior ray, the other rays in all cases, save one, 

 having 2, with long and narrow first interradials, and with short 

 and wide ones; with basal concavity very shallow, not involving 

 any part of the third radials, and deep, entirely including them. 




2t0 nUtf'KKDINGS OF THE ACADKMY fiF [1878. 



Tlio first of these groups is sharply characterized, ami is the well- 

 known species A. Worlfii'in\ Hall. The second is of tiie type A. 

 Anici'irainis, Iloenier, but includes tiie features of yj. huUntitx and 

 A. excavaliis, ]Iall, and A. no(lo.'<us, M. and W., and a new form 

 not heretofore noticed, having four arms in eacii posterior ra}- ; ' 

 but the combination of these characters was so perplexing that 

 tiie identification of the species was wholly unsatisfactor}'. Upon 

 arranging the specimens, however, according to the nKJst general 

 modifications, such as the greater or less elevation of the anal 

 area and the number of arms, we found tiiat they arranged them- 

 selves into a series, in Avhich, while varying irregularly in tiie 

 minor characters observed, the forms shaded gradually from one 

 into the others, beginning with those having two arms to the ra3' 

 and greatly protruding anal area, and ending in those witli four 

 arms to each posterior raj' and ia wide flat anal area. In these 

 respects the succession was nearh' regulai*, but no other characters 

 ■were coincident with them, and, in other respects, there was no 

 nniformit}^ or constanc}' whatever. It was now found that the 

 specimens had also arranged themselves according to their geo- 

 logical horizons,, beginning with two-armed forms in the Upper 

 Burlington, and extending regularly' tiirough the transition beds 

 with two and three arms, to the four-anncd forms in the highest 

 part of the Keokuk. 



In this study which we have described thus in detail, to show 

 that there is nothing arbitrary or theoretical in the result an- 

 nf)unced, we used about thirty well-preserved si)ecimens, besides 

 the description of the types, and we were forced to the conclusion 

 tliat, in the second group, it is not possible to draw lines which 

 shall separate it into species, but that these forms are onl_y A'aria- 

 tions of a single species, of which A. Americaniis is the type, and 

 under which A. bulloius, A. excavatus, and A. nodosus must fall. 

 A. Worlheni occurs, so far as observed, onl}^ in the upper part of 

 tlie Keokuk, and is very characteristic of it. We have from the 

 Upper Burlington a single specimen, evidently very mature, in 

 whifli the apical dome plates are crow'ded apart by small plates, 

 and wliich has short interradials, but wliich in every other respect 

 agrees with the two-armed form of A. Americaniis. "We also ob- 

 served in a verj' large specimen of A. IFo?*//; en?, which is somewhat 

 injured in the rays, an arrangement of dome plates, which leads us 




1878.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 241 



to think it probable that this form will be found with four arms 

 to all the raj's. 



The Burlington species of Agaricocrinus are coraparativeh^ 

 small, increasing in size in the upper bed ; tlie transition bed 

 fossils are larger still, and in the Keokuk there are found tliose 

 ponderous, huge forms wliich arc so characteristic of that horizon, 

 and of which A. Wortheni is the extreme. Witli tiiese extraAagant 

 forms the genus becomes extinct, and we meet it no more above 

 the Keokuk beds. 



4. ACTINOCRINUS. 



The lohed Actinocrinus which ^Nleek and Worthen considered to 

 be tlie true tj'pe of the genus, is numeronsl3' represented in the 

 crinoidal limestones, and a large number of species have been 

 described from the Upper Burlington and Keokuk Ijeds. The 

 ty{)e of the genus is a form subglobose to turbinate below the 

 brachial plane, ver}- slightlv convex to pyramidal above the arms, 

 the interradial spaces contracted, the radial areas prolonged and 

 extended outward about at right angles to tlie vertical axis, and 

 formed into lobes which increase in width as they recede from 

 the body; thus giving to the fossil when seen from above or 

 below, a pentapetalons aspect. 



Its leading species in the Upper Burlington l)eds are A. multi- 

 radiatus^ Shum. and A. verrucosus, Hall, both fignred on Ph\te 10 

 of the Iowa Geol. Kept. The former is characterized by a ver^'' 

 low, flat dome, with the interradial areas greatly constricted and 

 excavated ; tiie latter b}^ an elevated dome and a greater develop- 

 ment of the interradial dome plates, which extend down between 

 the lobes and form a low i-im connecting them. The former has 

 30 arms, the latter 40, the arms of both remaining simple through- 

 out. In this genus, unless the arras tliemselves are preservefl, it 

 is very difficult to tell tiieir number, for the long projecting lobes 

 are almost alwa^'s broken away with the arms. In large collec- 

 tions from tlie Burlington limestone, of specimens otherwise well 

 preserved, it is exccedingl}' rare to find one in which the brachial 

 plates are ])rcserved to the bases of all the arms. • They are 

 generally' broken away just above the first bifurcation in the ray, 

 and the number of arms appears less than it really is. This was 

 the case with A. mulliradiafu^, wliich is rciiresented in the Jowa 

 Rejiort as having two arms to the ray ; when in fact it has six as 




24^ PBOCEEDlNCiB OF THE ACADEMY OF [1878. 



large collections prove. In tlie Keokuk beds the genus attains 

 its greatest cleveloi)nient in size and extravagance in features. It 

 is represented by a huge number of described species, of which 

 the leading tyj)es are A. Loicei, A. pernodo.sus^ and A. jur/o.sus, 

 Hall, and the species of A. Hionholdti and A. A{jastiizi\ Troost. 

 Most of the Keokuk species were apparently described from speci- 

 mens more or less imperfect in the brachial part of the lobes, so 

 that very little reliance can be placed in the arm lurmuhe stated, 

 and no iufonnation is giveu in the di'.scii[)lioiis as to ihe nature of 

 the arms in the different species. 



The IJurlington sjjecimens exhibit much variation in iiro|)ortions 

 and orntimentatiou, and while they are generalh'^ of small size and 

 neat sculpturing, we find occasionall}' a mature individual which, 

 with most of the features of its associates, is much larger in size 

 and is marked with that roughness of hal)it and rudeness of form, 

 so prevalent in the Keokuk. The Keokuk species named are all 

 very large, uncouth forms, with extreme rugosity of surface, the 

 latter reaches its extreme in A. Agassizi and A. pernodoHUS, while 

 in A. Loivei, the contraction of the interradial spaces above the 

 arm bases is so great, that almost the entire dome is included in 

 the five lobes. Specimens from this formation, preserving the 

 arms, are exceedingly rare, and our Keokuk material generally 

 is too limited for a detailed comijarison of forms. But we have a 

 specimen of the A. verrucosus type, apparently A. pernodosus or 

 A. jugosus, which shows the arms to be very large and strong, and 

 six to the ray ; while another, which we suppose to be A. Agassizi 

 of Troost's catalogue, has apparently 20 arms, which are the most 

 ponderous that we have seen in any crinoid. Two specimens from 

 the Keokuk of Indiana, received from Dr. H. S. Harrod, of Canton, 

 which we consider to be 3'oung and old individuals of A. Loivei^ 

 have eight primary arms on the posterior rays, and six in the 

 others; they possess the very peculiar feature not hitherto 

 noticed, that the inner arms of each ra>', instead of being simple 

 throughout, bifurcate about midway, giving 10 and 12 arms to 

 the ray at the extremities. 



In the transition beds, there occur certain forms, represented 

 by many specimens, in which the characteristic features of the 

 Burlington and Keokuk species are united. The}' shade into A. 

 viuUiradiatus on the one hand, and into A. Lowei on the other, 

 by such easy gradations that specific distinctions are impossible. 




1818.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 243 



It is probable that A. brontes and A. unicarinatus^ Hall, which 

 were described from Nauvoo, and wliich we were unable to 

 identify, never seeing an authentic specimen, belong to these 

 same intermediate forms. Among specimens from the transition 

 beds, we have found one in wliich, as if foreshadowing the pecu- 

 liar arm features of A. Loivei^ some of the arms were .nmple, tchile 

 others divide an inch above their bases into two branches. This 

 type also having reached its culmination in the Keokuk beds, 

 becomes here extinct. 



5. PLATYCRINUS, Miller. 



Mr. F. B. Meek, in Hayden's Reps. U.S. Geol. Surv. of tlie Ter- 

 ritories, for 1871, p. 373, proposed the name Eudadocrinus as a 

 subgenus for the reception of a type of Platt/crinus, in which the 

 radial series are extended into long, free tubes, bearing the true 

 arms along their sides. Some lately acquired material from the 

 crinoidal beds, and especially the fish bed, enables us to add 

 something to pi'esent knowledge of this Ibrin. The type under 

 consideration has exact!}' the bod}' structure of Pla ycrinua up 

 to the third radials. It inchules both the low, broad cup-shaped, 

 and tlie elongate form of calyx. But instead of giving off the arms 

 in clusters from the third radial as usual in Platycrinits^ it has 

 the radial series of the body, both dorsal and ventral, enormously 

 extended in the form of tuJDular free rays, from which the arms 

 spring alternatel}' on eitlier side throughout their length. It bears 

 the same relations to the typical PlatycrinuM, tliat the form, de- 

 scribed as Steganocrinus by M. and W. in vol. II, 111. Geol. Kept, 

 p. 195, does to the typical Actinocrinus, it being sometimes im- 

 possible, witli our present knowledge, to determine to which genus 

 the specimen belongs when the arms are removed.' 



The value of these differences in arm arrangement as to generic 

 relations is as yet an open question; but we have found that the 

 structural difference between the two forms is not by anv means 

 so great as first impressions would indicate. Tiie free rays of 

 Steganocrinus are actually nothing but extreme developments of 

 the lobes of Aclinocrinus multiradiatus or A. Loivei, and in like 



1 A similar variation in the arras is observed in He-vacrinus, those of 

 H. brevis, Goldfuss, being similar in type to the earlier forms of Platycrinus^ 

 while H. limbaius, Miiller, has arms of difiFereut type, somewhat like Euda- 

 docrinus, but more like Barycrinus. 




244 paocEEDiNos of the academy op [l>i78. 



niiiimcr tlic rniliiil cxlciisioiis of J'Ji(cladoc7'inu.'< arc product-d liy a 

 imiltipliciilion of llic orders of radials in the body of rinfi/iriitus, 

 as proved in tlie most satislactory manner hy onr I'liilijcrinus 

 jirienunlins herein descriltcd, in which the inlerme<]iatc stage is 

 shown. We donht whether there is any generic distinetifiii 1)C- 

 tween the two forms, Imt in th(! nnsetth-d state of onr science npon 

 this qnestion, it is prohabl}' best, and may facilitate the scarcli for 

 a. natnral classification to recognize subgoneric groups however 

 artificial the}' may lie. 



Tliis group includes, so far as known, onr Eucladocrinufi viille- 

 hrachiatus^'riahjcrinus j^leui-oi^imenun, White, besides PL Mon- 

 ianaensis^ Meek.' 



It ranges in our rocks from the Ui)per Burlington through the 

 transition beds and into the Keokuk limestone. 



Another species, somewhat similar to E. millebrachiatus, both 

 in ornamentation and form of the calyx, but liaving the arras 

 of true Pla{i/C7-inus, ranges through tiie crinoidal beds and is called 

 PL sculptus when founil in the Lower Burlington, PL glyptut^ in 

 the Upper, and PL f^affordi when found at Keokuk localities. We 

 can see no difference between them, and it is an interesting con- 

 firmation of our opinion, that we have before us a si)ecimen from 

 the Burlington limestone at Quinc}', kindly loaned to us hy Prof. 

 Worthen from the Nat. Hist. Museum of Illinois, which is exactly 

 like some of our Lower and Upper bed specimens, and whicli was 

 identified by Prof. Hall, who described all three species, as PL 

 Saffordi. It is also worthy of note for onr present investigations 

 that this species being a simple and typical form of the genus, 

 survives through all three divisions of the crinoidal limestone, 

 ■while on the other iiand, so far as observed, the extravagant forms 

 soon become extinct. 



' Hall's species, PI. nodobrachirittcn, Iowa Kept. p. 542, sccras at a casual 

 glance to have a somewhat similar arrangement of the arms. But bis descrip- 

 tiou was undoubtedly made from a young specimen, and a comparison of a 

 large number of very young specimens of Plati/crinus, in some of wUich 

 the arms are onlj' sprouting, as it were, shows that the arrangement seen 

 in his diagram, is that of the nascent Platycrimis generally, and that the 

 little side appendages are pinnules and not arms. The arm joints, in the 

 young of this genus, are mostly single, the tips only being formed of a 

 double series of interlocking joints, which in the adult prevail down to the 

 bifurcation of the arms. 




18T8.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 245 



Eucladocrinus millebrachiatus, n. pp. 



Column very large and long, twisted, composed of joints which 

 increase in thickness as the\' recede from the bod}'. Tlie faces of 

 the joints are eccentric elliptic, the rim beveled to an edge, some- 

 times sharp and sometimes obtuse, from which project, rather 

 irregularly, small tooth-like spines, Each joint is twisted so tiiat 

 the long axes of the reverse faces make a considerable angle with 

 each other, while the articulation on tiie long diameters imparts a 

 rapid twist to the whole stem, and permits motion in all directions. 

 The articulating processes run lengthwise of the face of the joint, 

 and consist of a strong ridge along the middle, with anotlier on 

 either side near the peripher}-, and curving like it. There are deep 

 depressions on either side of the median elevation, probably filled 

 by interarticulary suljstance. Perforation of the column round 

 and extiemely minute, barely large enough for the insertion of a 

 fine needle pf)int. 



Body, exclusive of free rays, of medium to large size, cup-shaped 

 to elongate hemispheric. Basal and first radial plates thin; basal 

 disk low, about one-third the height of the bod3^ Facet for attach- 

 ment of the column slightly indented, and surrounded by a low 

 lamellose ridge, or by a row of small tubercles. Surface of basal 

 plates marked by rows of small nodes and rugose ridges, arranged 

 parallel to the margins and radiating to the angles, the same 

 ornamentation extending upward on the first radials. Edges of 

 basals obtusely bevelled. There is considerable diversit_y in the 

 surface sculpturing, it being ol)scure on small specimens, con- 

 spicuous on large individuals. First radials higher than wide,, 

 their sides about 2)arallel, margins not bevelled, but forming close 

 sutures with adjacent plates; gibbous in the middle and swelling 

 toward the margin of the second radials. Articulating facet large, 

 broad, semicircular, occupying one-third to one-half the height, 

 and one-half to one third the width of the plate, facing outward 

 nearly parallel to the vertical axis. Anal plate about equal in 

 size to the interradials, inflated above, and forming a part of the 

 flattened dome. The anal opening situated at its uj^per margin. 



Beyond the first radials, the rays extend out horizontally, both 

 on the dorsal and ventral side, and are produced into long free 

 tubular, arm-like appendages, which are really extensions of the 

 body in the radial series. They bifurcate on the second raflial 

 into two branches, which do not immediately diverge, but remain 




240 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [187H. 



united hy their inner sides as far as tlie middle of tlie third r:idial 

 plate, l)cyoiid which they heeoiue free, and continue so to their 

 extremities. 1 fence, tiierc are two free branches to each ray, or 

 ten in all, eaeli of which hears the true arms on eitiier side in 

 alternate; succession. The l)ranfhes are of about uniform size for 

 half Iheir length, after which they lajjer gradually ami aiiparently 

 terminate in a true arm. A tul)ular passaffe, arched over by the 

 extensions of the dome, runs the entire length of the free rays. 

 Tlie tubes of tlie two brandies, alier uniling on the insiile of the 

 second radial, connect with the central visceral cavity. 



Second radials very short, broad and deep, fdling the entire 

 surface of the articidating scar, rounded below, curved at the 

 sides to meet the dome plates, their transverse outline about 

 semicircular, dorsal aspect obtusely pentagonal, though actually 

 heptagonal. The lateral extremities of this plate, like those of 

 the succeeding radials, have angular faces interlocking -with 

 corresponding faces of small plates, which fill the interbrachial 

 areas on tiie ventral side ol" the rays. The upper equal faces of 

 the plate slope at a ver3' obtuse angle, and bear two plates in 

 siiccession, wdiich are radials of the second order. The first of 

 these is short, hexagonal, its long margins about parallel, its 

 outer lateral margin notched by a small channel, which penetrates 

 through the plate to the tubular cavit}' within. The inner lateral 

 margins of this and the next interlock with those of corresponding 

 plates in the other branch of the ray, the salient angles of one 

 meeting the sutures of the other. The second radial of this order 

 is almost quadrangular, though actually pentangular, much nar- 

 row'cr than the adjoining ones, and sustains on its outer sloping 

 face the base of an arm. It is slightly wedge-form, its greater 

 height being on the inner margin, and this causes the division of 

 the ray, which takes place near the top of this plate. 



The plates throughout the entire length of the free rays form 

 an indefinite number of successive orders of radials of two each, 

 the second of which is a cuneiform bifurcating plate, sustaining 

 on its longer upper face the i)lates of the next order of radials, 

 and on its very short outer sloiting face, in connection with the 

 still shorter outer face of the first plate of the next series, the 

 brachial pieces which form the beginning of the arms. The 

 brachial pieces, or first pair of arm-joints, are rather deepl}' set 

 into the raj, and while thej^ rest chiefly upon the cuneate second 




1818.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 247 



radial of each series and tlie outer face of the succeeding plate, 

 they also abut against the plate aljove and below. In one very 

 large specimen, in part of the ray near the body, they are imbed- 

 ded still deeper, so that they touch five plates of the ray, as is the 

 case in E.pleurovimeniis, but at a greater distance from thebody 

 they abut only against four, as is the general rule. 



The arras are long, rather strong, gently tapering, directed along 

 the raj's toward the extremities; composed of a double series of 

 rather short interlocking plates, every alternate one on either side 

 giving rise to a long, slender, single-jointed pinnule. The arms 

 are given off from each pair of plates in the free ra3's, alternately 

 on each side, thus giving an arm for every two plates throughout 

 their length. In one of our specimens, of medium size, there are 

 about .30 arms to one branch, l)ut the extreniit}' is not preserved, 

 and we have reason to thinlv they averaged 10 more, wiiich would 

 give 80 to the i-a3',or 400 in all. In some of the larger specimens, 

 the number was doubtless much greater, and probably in some 

 cases approached 500. 



Dome flat, composed of comparativelj' large plates, the apical 

 and radial dome plates being at tlieir middle part abruptly ele- 

 vated into papillate nodes with a roughened or wrinkled surface. 

 Tlie plates of the interradial areas, of which there are but few, are 

 smooth. At the place where the rays emerge from the inner body, 

 directly over the second primary radial, there is a large dome 

 plate marking the incipient bifurcation of the ray, with several 

 small ones below, succeeded by two rows of very large, extremely 

 prominent plates like those of the dome, but much more conspicu- 

 ous and with coarser surface markings. The latter are placed 

 along the ventral side of the raj', and alternately' on either side, 

 so that one plate is alwaj's situated over the base of an arm, and 

 by counting them the number of arms can be determined as 

 readily' as from the radial plates on the dorsal side. Tlie spaces 

 between these brachial dome plates are occupied b\' smaller, flat, 

 rounded, or subspiniferous plates, irregularly arranged. The ar- 

 rangement of the vault pieces of the rays is such that they could 

 not have opened, and hence the passage within was always tubular 

 and never an open canal. The radial appendages have a ten- 

 dency to bend downward, leaving the ventral surface exposed. 



We have noted the presence of a small channel at the lateral 

 extremity of the first radial of the second order, and will now add 




248 PROCEEDlN(iS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1878. 



tliat this forms the passage of a good-sized pore. Similar pores, 

 pierced tli rough at tlie c(\<r('. of the plate, and iiielosed Ijy the 

 almttiiig mnrgiii of an a<ljaceiit plate, are found on car.U side of 

 the free rays near the base of every arm. They communicate 

 with the tnhnlar passage, and have aljout the same direction as 

 the arm furrows One pore penetrates every first brachial piece 

 on each side of the arm-l)a8e, another enters at the outer lateral 

 edge of the first radial of each order, a third one occurs at the 

 edge of the second radials ; hut toward liie upper or thinner part 

 of the rays, we found oidy two pores between eacli pair of anus 

 in phice of three as described.' 



' Tin' presence of the pores in tlie sides of the radial appendages is such 

 a notable feature in tlie form nnder consideration, that interest is naturally 

 awakened as to their jirobable functions, and this the more since similar 

 pores have been observed by us in several othisr genera. Thej-^ are very 

 conspicuous in Baiocriaus, where they are arranged in ten pairs, five radial 

 and five interradial, each pair is situated between the adjacent arms, and 

 they connect through the body walls with the inner cavity. They are 

 found also in Ae'iiiocHnun and Strotocrinus^ in the free arm bearing rays 

 of Sieganocriims, within the false arms of Ollacrinus, and pores are found 

 in the ventral sac or so-called inflated proboscis of some of the Cyathocri- 

 nidcB. If now we compare the position of these openings with the so-called 

 ovarian openings of tlie Blastoids and the pectinated rhombs of tlie C3'stid- 

 ians, Avhicli are considered by some authors to be ovarian, by others 

 respinitory organs, tlie question is forcibly suggested whether these may 

 not have had the same functions, perhaps serving as a madrepoiic apparatus 

 for the introduction of water to the body. Such organ has never been 

 noted in Faleocrinoids, and yet, must have existed in them somewhere. 

 In some genera, the pores in the body Avails Avere evidently absent, ])ut we 

 have observed in this connection that in tliose genera the column is not only 

 very large, but the tubular cavity within is of extreme size, and follows 

 Avith its ramifications the numerous branches and roots into which those 

 columns divide. Their cavity is peculiarly constructed, generally pentape- 

 talous in form, and its inner Avails throughout built up of thin laminated 

 plates Avith innumerable slits, punctures, pores, grooves, ridges, and other 

 processes, through which a communication with the surrounding Avater 

 Avas easily effected. Such complicated structure shoAvs that the column 

 must have performed a vastly more important office in the animal economy 

 than that of an attachment to the sea bottom, and may have had here the 

 additional functions of those of the pores, especiallj' as Ave find that in every 

 genus in Avhich pores have been observed in the body AA'alls, tlie perforation 

 in the column is veiy small and shows no signs of a structure as above 

 described. We call attention to tliese facts at present in the hope that they 

 may lead to observations on the subject elsewhere, and Ave hope hereafter 

 to eive it a more detailed iuvestis-ation. 




1878.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 249 



In the investigation of this species we have made use of a mag- 

 nificent series of specimens from the fish bed, found within a few 

 feet of each other. Tliere are nine individuals in good preserva- 

 tion presenting to view almost every aspect of the fossil, they 

 represent difl'erent stages of growtli, and show tlie gradations 

 from small to large individuals. We have also before us a speci- 

 men from the division bed at Nanvoo and tliree from the Keoiiuk 

 limestone. The latter are considerably^ larger than the fish-bed 

 specimens, but exhibit otherwise, in the parts preserved, no es- 

 sential difterence. Only a portion of the rays is preserved on 

 one of the Keokuk specimens but sufficient to show that it had 

 the same arm structure. Until discovery of more perfect speci- 

 mens shall prove tiie existence of more important differences than 

 yet observed, we can only regard the Keokuk form as belonging 

 to the same species, with the tendency to variation generally ob- 

 served in Keokuk representations of Burlington tj'pes. 



This species is distinguished from E. pleurovimenus by the low 

 discoid calyx, the flat concave base, the massive body plates, the 

 deep sutures, the more robust and rapidly tapering radial appen- 

 dages of that species. In four specimens, we find that the free 

 rays are always folded inward upon the ventral side instead of 

 hanging down as in our species. It has about the same number 

 of arms as ours, and either of them with their ten long rays fully 

 extended, and the hundreds of arms stretching outward must have 

 presented a very striking appearance. 



Locality and Position. — Near Burlington, Iowa ; transition bed 

 between the Burlington and Keokuk limestone. Collections of 

 C. Wachsmuth and Frank Springer. 



Platycrinusprsenuntius, n. sp. 



Column large, twisted, and constructed as in E. millehrachiatus. 

 Body rather large, low, broadly cup-shaped or discoid. Basal 

 and radial plates heav}'^ ; basal disk deeply and abruptl3' exca- 

 vated below, so that four or five joints of the column are inside 

 the plane of its outer rim. Basal plates elevated near their mar- 

 gins into a thickened, rugose rim, which is also found near the 

 lower margin of the first radials. All the plates are broadly and 

 deeply bevelled on their margins. First radials one-half wider 

 than high, their lower projecting margins overhanging below the 

 plane of the base, so that the body rests on these margins wlien 

 17 




250 PROCEEDINOS OF THE ACADEMY OF [IST*^. 



placed upon a Icvrl siirface. Articulating facet prominent, much 

 elevated by the thickening of the plate; hroad, semicircular, 

 oc'cup3'ing about one-third the width and height of the first radial, 

 its surface about paralkd witli the plane of tlie i)late, which makes 

 an angle of about 4;") with the vertical axis. Anal plate a little 

 larger than the intcr-radials, supporting on its upper face a series 

 of small dome plates, above whicli is the anal aperture, situated 

 very low and opening laterally. 



I'ht' radial areas are produced into free appendages, approach- 

 ing the structure of EncladocrinHs. They are large, strong, an«l 

 broadly rounded below, spreading out about horizontally and 

 folding upward on the ventral side. They bifurcate on the second 

 radial, but remain joined by their inner sides to the top of the 

 second plate above it, where they diverge and become free. The 

 branches diminish in size very rapidly, giving off arms alternately 

 on either side to about the twelfth plate, where each terminates in 

 a bifurcating plate, from whose equal upper faces two true arms 

 diverge. The surface of the plates is irregularl}' elevated and 

 rounded, and the sutures are slightly sinuous, giving to the rays 

 a wrinkled or corrugated appearance. 



Second radial short, broad, filling the articulating faces, pen- 

 tagonal in outline, bearing upon its upper obtusely-sloping faces 

 the radials of the second order, two in succession, whose inner 

 edges join, but do not interlock, the sutures in the two series coin- 

 ciding. The first radial of the second order is about quadrangular, 

 its upper and lower margins flexuous. The second is much narrower 

 and is a bifurcating plate, whose longer upper face bears the 

 radials of the next order, while its short, acutely-sloping outer late- 

 ral face sustains the lower margin of the first and largest brachial 

 piece. The second radial of the next order gives rise to an arm 

 on the opposite side, and so on alternately to the end of the ray. 

 There are about six pairs of radials of as many orders, each of 

 which represents an arm, and the last pair two arms; thus giving 

 off normally seven arms to each branch, fourteen to the ray, and 

 seventy in all. The first pair of brachial pieces are large, of 

 unequal size, and imbedded in the ray so that they abut against 

 four of the radial plates. Arms comparatively long and heavy, 

 composed of a double series of interlocking plates with a furrow 

 on the ventral side connecting with the tubular cavity of the ray. 

 and apparently- bearing pinnules in the usual waj-. 




1878.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 251 



Dome elevaterl, hemispheric, composed of large tumid plates, of 

 which the apical and interradial ones are the most prominent, the 

 radial area in the vault being composed of a double series of 

 smaller plates, which extend out along the ventral side of the I'ays 

 as continuations of the dome. 



This species, in its body structure, is most closeh'^ related to 

 E. pleu7'ovimenus. having a similar low discoid form and heavy 

 plates, but it can be easily distinguished by the extremely deep 

 excavation of the l)ase below, the prominent ridges at the margins 

 of the basal and first radial plates, the extreme depth and width 

 of the bevelings at the sutures, the elevation of the articulating 

 faces, and b}'- the very distinct arm structure. It resembles P. 

 tuherosus^ Hall, in its discoid dorsal cup, but in that species the 

 calyx is much lower, the arm-bases being in the plane of the base. 

 The deep and acute beveling of the margins of the plates in our 

 species gives it a sharp, angular appearance not visible in any 

 other species. 



Position and Locality. — Upper Burlington division of the cri- 

 noidal limestone ; subcarb., Burlington, Iowa. Collections of Fr. 

 Springer and James Love, Esq. 



Platycrinus prsenuntius, as stated before, represents the trans- 

 ition form between the typical Platycrinus and Eucladocri^ius, 

 the latter being the extreme wing of the genus. A comparison 

 of the species of Platycrinus occurring in the Upper and Lower 

 Burlington beds, gives further interesting results concerning the 

 history of the genus. In all the species from the Lower bed the 

 arms, both of the discoid and of the elongate form, divide upon 

 a triangular or pentangular bifurcating plate having equal sloping 

 faces, and the two halves of the rays are free above the second 

 radial, or become so at the first radial of the second order ; while 

 in almost every species from the Upper bed the arms branch oft' 

 alternately from the smaller sloping face of a more or less cuneate 

 plate (similar to P. prsenuntius) ; and while we find on the former 

 not over four arms to each half ray, with abnormally a fifth one, 

 there are species in the Upper bed with seven, eight, and nine aruis 

 to each half, or eighteen to the ray. There are before us some 

 most interesting specimens of a form from that horizon, perhaps 

 of P. Halli, Shum., but more probably, at least if Meek" and 

 Worthen's identification of that species in vpl. Y, 111. Geol. Rep. 

 p. 454, is correct, of an undescribed type which, in the form of the 




252 PR0CEEniN(J8 OF TIFE ACADEMY OF [1878. 



body and the goiicial plan of its radial construction, is so inti- 

 luateh' related to our E. mitli-brachiatus (as P. prienunlius to E. 

 2jleu7'ooiineniis) that one is forcibly struck with the idea that the 

 former may |)Ossil)ly represent a 3'ounger stage of the latter. 

 That this, however, is not the fact, is proved be3ond doubt b}' a 

 number of si)eciraens of each species and of dilfercnt size, which 

 show the greatest constancy in their respective characters ; and, 

 as the two forms occur in a distinct horizon, we are compelled to 

 regard it as not individual growth, but as a more mature develop- 

 ment of the genus. 



6. ICHTHYOCRINUS, Conrad. 



In investigating some specimens, apparently of this genus, of 

 a new form and unusual size from the fish bed, we encountered 

 much difficulty in determining their generic relations, and were 

 accordingl}' led to an examination of the entire literature of this 

 and Its allied genera, Taxoc7'inus Rud Forbc^^iocrinus. Meek and 

 Worthen, in vol. II, 111. Geol. Rep. p. 269, have discussed the 

 relations of the two last-named genera, and have furnished good 

 reasons for considering Forbesiocrinus to be only a subgenus of 

 Taxocrinus. The generic formula, which includes both, is shown 

 to be: 3 basals, Avhich are sometimes rudimentary, 5 subradials, 

 and 3 or 4 X 5 radials. It thus appears that the only difi'erence 

 between the two forms is in the interradial and anal areas, Taxo- 

 crinus being either without plates in these spaces or having but 

 1 to 3, and Forbesiocrinus having from 7 to 30, or more. Taxo- 

 crinus ranges from the Upper Silurian up, Avliile Fo7-besioc7-inus 

 is maini}' confined to the Subcarboniferous. The genus Ichlhyo- 

 crinus was established by Conrad in 1842 without generic diag- 

 nosis. According to Bronn, Klassen des Thierreichs, a'oI. II. p. 

 231.it has 5 basals. 3x5 radials. and no anals or interradials. 

 Hall, in vol. II, Paleont. X. Y. p. 195, and in the Iowa Rep. vol. 

 I, pt. ii. p. 557, describes the genus as having a round, smooth, 

 and slender column, 5 basal plates, 3x5 radials, the basals being 

 small, and there being sometimes three other rudimentary plates 

 within the 5 basals. Five American species are known of which 

 Hall described /. Isevis^ I. Burlinglonensis. I. subangulalus. and I. 

 tiaraeformis (Troost), and Winchell and Marcy I. corbis. Of these 

 I. tiarseformis is said to have 4 radials in the anterior r&y. and /. 

 corbis 2x5 radials. but all agree with the generic formula in having 




187S.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 253 



no interradials or anals. Specimens of /. Burlingtonensis before 

 us distinctly show the presence of 3 rudimentary basals mentioned 

 by Hall as pi'ol)ably of generic importance, and this would make 

 the formula : basals, 3 ; subradials, 5 ; radials. 3x5; thus agreeing 

 precisely with Taxocrinus and Forbesiocriiius, except in the ab- 

 sence of anals and interradials. 



The discovery of our new species I. nohilis brings fresh confu- 

 sion to the subject, and obliterates at once this apparently satis- 

 factory distinction. In this species, in 3'oung and mature indi- 

 viduals, we have 1 to 3 to 5 interradials, 1 to 2 interaxillar\' 

 plates, and 3 to 4, mostl}' 4, priraar}' radials with a wide variation 

 in the radials of the second and third orders, sometimes in the 

 same individual. On the other hand. Hall describes, in the Journ 

 Bost. Soc. Xat. Hist. 1861, p. 261, under Forbesiocrinus Thiemei, 

 another Burlington form, of which the typical specimen (without 

 doubt adult) had neither anal nor interradial plates. Thus show- 

 ing in a most satisfactorj' manner, tliat the interradials may be 

 present or absent in either tj-pe. In Hall's species, the radials 

 are 3 X 5, which increase in size upward, the second order of radi- 

 als, and sometimes partly the third order, leaning against those of 

 the adjacent rays. This species agrees up to the top of the sec- 

 ondary radials most remarkably with Ichthyocrinus, and onlj- 

 differs in the upper series of radials, or free arms, which are rounded 

 on the back in place of being flat as in that genus. That we have 

 since found other specimens with to 1 and 3 interradials in one 

 or more areas, and even 5 or more in its representative from the 

 Upper Burlington bed, cannot diminish the weight of our argu- 

 ment ; it rather serves to prove more conclusively, that the pres- 

 ence or absence of these plates is of but little value even as a 

 specific character. Hence there remains no distinction as to the 

 bod}- structure between the three genera. The Burlington forms of 

 Ichthyocrinus are readily recognized by the level plates and uni- 

 form curvature of the body, the disposition of the arms which 

 rest closely against each other and infold at their tips, the waving 

 sutures, and rapidly increasing width of the primary and second- 

 ary radials. In I. laevis, Hall, the plates are obtusely' angulated, 

 and in I. subangulatus the surface of tiie radials is elevated in the 

 centre, and in /. corbis the margins of the radials are straight, 

 while Forbesiocrinus and Taxocrinus have undulating sutures 

 to a greater or less extent. Thus, the only constant character is 




254 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [IStS. 



tilt' closely joining and iiifoldini^ arms of Ichtlnjocrinas. Under 

 this state of facts it seems clearly impossilile to lon;j;er maintain 

 generic distinctions between the three forms. As Ic/dhijocrinus 

 is the oldest name it mnst take precedence, and Taxoarinus and 

 Foi'besiucrinns be considered, at the most, as subgenera under it. 

 Hut wliether even this separation can be upheld seems to us doubt- 

 ful. That in Ichthyocrinus the arms join and infold, that the ba- 

 sals are rudimentar}', only visible from the inside, that in Taxo- 

 c;-»i»xand Forbcsiocrinus those plates are more developed, ap- 

 pearing externally, are no bona fide features upon which to found 

 subgenera, and yet, they seem, with our present kno\«ledge to be 

 the onl}' constant characters for separation ; in all others we find 

 such an easy gradation from one species to another, such an inter- 

 mingling of characters among the three t3q)es, that it api^ears 

 almost impossil)le to draw a line where the one genus shall begin 

 and the other end. 



Ichthyocrinus nobilis, n. sp. . 



Column round, comparatively small, and with small spin}' pro- 

 cesses in the periphery of every alternate joint. Central perfora- 

 tion moderately large with pentapetalous section. 



Calyx large, forming with the closely folded arms a smooth, 

 subglobose or ovoid body. Basals not visible; the five subradials 

 seen only at the angles. Primary radials, four to the ray, two 

 and a half times as wide as high ; widest at the upper margin. In 

 large individuals, l\\cy increase rather slowly in width to the 

 fourth plate, the rays being separated b}- large interradial spaces, 

 but in smaller specimens, with onlj- few interradials, the increase 

 is very rapid. Secondary radials 3 to 4, var^'ing more or less in 

 the same individual, the largest having 4 in 9 branches and 3 in 

 the other branch, one specimen of medium size has 4 in 7 branches, 

 and 3 in 3 ; a young example has 3 in 5 branches, 4 in 2, and the others 

 not visible. Those plates increase in width very rapidl}', the up[)er 

 ones being 4 to 5 times as wide as high, so that above the inter- 

 radial spaces, the sides of the ra^^s join again. In the next or 

 third order of radials, tliere is variation of 3, 5, 8, and 9 plates in 

 the ramifications in the same individual. In all our specimens, 

 there is at least one more bifurcation beyond this, apparently 

 throughout the rays, giving at least 40 arms, but in the largest 

 individual there is still another on the outer tertiary ramifications 

 of each half of the ray, while the inner ones remain simple, thus 




1878.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 255 



giving 12 arms to each full ra}' or fiO in all. All tlie radial and 

 arm plates have a very irregular outline, the bifurcating plates 

 being pentangular, the others more or less quadrangular, with ad- 

 ditional small angular faces. The upper and lower margins of 

 the plates are strongly undulated and deeply depressed in the 

 middle somewhat as in Fo7~besioa7'iuus^Sini\ showing in the second 

 series of radials ver^'^ obscure patelloid plates. The undulating 

 feature extends even to many of the lateral margins; the tendency 

 throughout the wMiole body being to curved lines. The surface of 

 all the plates is smooth and level with the others, except the gentle 

 curvature which accommodates them to the general sphericity of 

 the body, — that is to say, the surface of tlio bod}' is uninterrupted 

 by an\' elevations or surface angularity of the plates. The arms 

 are flat, comparatively Itroad, and lie close together, touching at 

 their sides, the lines of junction being straight. The plates both 

 of arms and body are very thick and heav}-; those of the arms have 

 on their inner or ventral side a deep furrow with another smaller 

 and shallower groove on either side. Between the rays, there is 

 a set of interradials, extending upward in a wedge-like arrange- 

 ment from a little above the level of the primar^'^ radials, filling a 

 considerable space. There are in full grown specimens from 3 to 

 5 interradials of rather large size, but we find in one apparently 

 very young individual onl}' a single plate and only one interra- 

 dial space. Between the first branches of the rays, there are 1 to 

 2 interaxillary plates which are naiTow and elongate. These 

 plates, as a transverse section of one of the rays shovvs, are cune- 

 ate or pyramidal, their apices directed outward and wedged be-' 

 tween the radials ; and in this case, the interaxillar}', though large 

 and massive, had not penetrated through the wall, none being 

 visilile from the outside. 



This species is readily distinguished from all described forms of 

 the type b\' its 4 primary radials and its interradial plates. From 

 Taxocrinus and Forheaiocrinus it differs in its subglobose form, 

 uniform surface, the flatness and close infolding of the arms. 



Position and Locality. — From the fish bed at the top of the Upper 

 Burlington division of the crinoidal limestone ; subcarb., near 

 Burlington, Iowa, Collection of C. Wachsmuth. 




2o() PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1878. 



7. CYATHOCRINUS, Miller. 



Tills genus is remarkable for the persisteiiee which some of its 

 forms maintain throughout the crinoidul formations. A careful 

 examination of the prevalent Burlington forms (both from de- 

 scription and numerous specimens), which we were induced to 

 make in connection Avith some uiii(iiie forms from the fisli bed, 

 gave interesting results. The common species described, and 

 most numerously represented in all the collections that have ever 

 been made at Burlington, are 6'. loioensis, 0. and Sh., G. dioari- 

 catus, and C. malvaceus, Hall, always considered lower l>ed 

 species, and C. viminalis, Hall, from the upper bed. The identi- 

 fication of these species in large collections has always been 

 attended with difficult}'^, excej^t those specimens of this type found 

 in the ui)per bed, which were promptly referred to C. viminalis, 

 it being taken for granted, in pursuance of common understand- 

 ing which had acquired the force of law, that the same species 

 could not be found in both beds. 



If the descri[)tions of these four species be considered together, 

 it will be found that but one species is represented, with slight 

 variations in the form and proportions of tlie plates. According 

 to the description, the}' all have small, subglobose bodies, with 

 basal plates minute to moderately large ; subradlals proportion- 

 all}' large, equilateral to wider than high, and obtusely angular to 

 tumid, and gibbous ; radials about equal to, or smaller than the 

 subradials ; articulating scar impressed, small to moderately large; 

 arms divaricating to strongly diverging; surface granulose to 

 granulose-striate. An examination of over a hundred specimens 

 of this type, most of them having the arms preserved, has disclosed 

 such a promiscuous combination of all these characters, as to render 

 specific separations entirely' out of the question, and has satisfied 

 us that the differences noticed in describing isolated specimens 

 are individual, and the result of different stages of growth of the 

 one species, G. lowensis. The type of G. divaricatus was no 

 doubt the j^ounger stage in which the basal portions were most 

 prominent, and C. malvaceus, a mature individual in which the 

 greater development of the subradials left the basals proportion- 

 ally small. Between supposed typical specimens of C. lowenais 

 from the lower bed, and of C. viminalis, no difference can be 

 pointed out in the body, and the only character which we can dis- 




1878.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 257 



cover to mark the forms from the two l)eds is, that in the Upper 

 bed specimens, the arms generally taper slightl}^ more than in 

 those from the Lower bed. The sirailaritj^, indeed identity*, in all 

 otlier respects, is so striking, that we see no other course than to 

 consider them all as one and the same species, which would fall 

 under the older name G. lowensis. We have been forced to this 

 conclusion onl}' after the most faithful investigation of the abun- 

 dant material at our command, and in which the collections from 

 the different horizons are authentic. But our difficulties do not 

 end here. We find this same form occurring not unfrequently in 

 the typical Keokuk localities, and indicating not only a striking 

 persistence of type throughout the whole crinoidal formation, but 

 similarity of specific characters quite remarkable. It is described 

 by Prof. Hall as C. parvibrachiatus, and, in the specific characters 

 named hy him, it agrees with the Burlington type in every respect 

 except the more rapidly diminishing size of the arms. Numerous 

 specimens from various localities show that this feature is quite 

 variable, and one series of 18 individuals, from near Bonaparte, 

 Iowa, collected there in a thin layer not over two feet square, and 

 preserving the arms, shows the same intermingling of minor char- 

 acters and variet}' of size as is found in the Burlington forms. 

 One of these specimens, placed beside a similar individual from tlie 

 Lower Burlington, presents to the ej'^e scarcely appoint of difference. 

 On an average, however, we find the Keokuk specimens to be a 

 little larger, their arms stronger in the lower parts, and more 

 rapidl}' ta[)ering than in those from Burlington, and hence we do 

 not feel at present authorized (nor do we wish to do so when it 

 can possiblj' be avoided) to interfere with the specific name. Some 

 other species of Cyathocrinus in the Keokuk limestone tend toward 

 more robust forms and heavier arms, and among the fish-bed 

 fossils we have discovered several forms departing from the char- 

 acteristic types in the same direction, of which we describe two 

 new species. 



Cyathocrinus barydactylus, n. sp. 



Column \Qvy large, larger than in an}- known species of the 

 genus, its projecting joints more or less serrated, central perfora- 

 tion of moderate size, and obscurely pentapetalous. Bod^' of 

 medium size, bell-shaped, turbinate below, abruptly spreading in 

 the first radials, greatly constricted at the dome. Diameter at 

 arm bases about equal to height, though less in smaller specimens. 




258 I'lloCKKDlNUS OF TMK Af'ADKMV OF [1878. 



Iiitciii;il cavity efjsr-sliaped, stnnlk'st helow. B:is:ils larp^e and 

 l)r()iniin'iit, uiovG thai) two-tliinls visilile heyond tin; coliiiiin, the 

 visil)k' part pontaiigiilar, directcil iip\var<l, and formiii;^ a cup 

 whose sides make a very small aiiLtio with the v(!rtieal axis. Sub- 

 ratliais hirufc, iiii^hcr tiiaii wide, four Ijexagoual and one heptago- 

 nal. their surfaces sligiitly convex. First radials al)out as wide 

 as high, great)}' thickened toward the inaigin oC liic articulating 

 facet, and their upper margins very strongly incurved, so that the 

 diameter of the dome is about equal to that of the internal cavity 

 at the middle of the subradials. Anal plate about one-fourth the 

 size of the first radials, higher than wide, and supporting the 

 plates of a lateral upright proboscis. IJody plates thick and 

 heav}', especially the first radials, marked by a coarse irregular 

 rugose ornamentation, which is least observed in the first radials. 

 The sutures are rather deeply marked. Articulating facet flat to 

 slightly concave, much elevated, facing outward, about parallel 

 witli the vertical axis, and occup^-ing about two-thirds the area of 

 the plate. Its outline is elliptic, notched on the ventral side by 

 the arm furrow. Succeeding radials free, l)roadly and deeply 

 rounded, two-thirds as wide as the first radials, forming very 

 strong rays of nearly uniform diameter, one bifurcating on the 

 fourth free radial and two on the second, the others not being 

 seen, exhibiting in this respect an irregularity common to the 

 genus. The plates below the bifurcation are quadrangular as 

 viewed from the outside, and of about equal size, lacing a little 

 over half as long as the first radials. The bifurcating plates are 

 pentangular, the upper margins being equal and nearly at right 

 angles, sustaining two equal branches of half the size of the free 

 radials. These bifurcate again on the second or third plate, and 

 there are two or more bifurcations above, apparently all from the 

 second or third plate. The most remarkable feature of the species 

 is the rapid diminution of tiie size of the arms, which are com- 

 paratively shorter than in any other known species of this genus. 

 The}' are composed of single joints, constricted in the middle, 

 expanding at their upper margins, and are without pinnules. The 

 form and size of the free rays, and the sudden shrinking in the 

 arms, gives to the form an entirely unique appearance not unlike 

 that of Onychocrinus, and the height from the base to the top of 

 the primary radials is more than half that of the entire fossil, 

 excluding the column. The arms are provided at their ventral 




1878.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 259 



side with a comparatively small, though deep furrow of tripartite 

 form, which extends throughout the arms. The contraction of the 

 body at the summit is very similar to that in Poteriocrinua (?) 

 geometricus. Goldfuss {Sphaerocriniis, Roemer), of the Eifel, as 

 ilUustrated by Schultze in his inonograi)h PI. Y, Fig. 6. The 

 thickness of the first and the succeeding radial plates in this and 

 the succeeding species might suggest a reference to Barycrinus\, 

 but the arm structure and column at once proves it to be Cyatho- 

 crinus. 



This species differs so entirely from all other described Burling- 

 ton forms, that comparison is unnecessary, and the only species 

 occurring elsewhere to our knowledge, which at all approach it, 

 are from the Keokuk limestone ; as for instance G. multibrachia- 

 tus from Crawfordsville, Ind., which has also a turbinate body, 

 but is otherwise quite distinct. 



Locality and position same as last. Collections of C. Wachs- 

 muth and Frank Springer. 



Cyathocrinus Gilesii, n. sp. 



Column comparatively small, projecting joints rounded on the 

 edges, central perforation small, obscurely pentapetalous Body 

 depressed, cup-shaped, two-thirds as high as wide, though a little 

 more elongate in .young specimens; slightly expanded at the 

 middle of first radials, and so deeply and abruptly constricted at 

 the dome, that the diameter at the upper margin of the plates, 

 in mature specimens, is about the same as that at the outer angle 

 of the basal plates, thus making the internal cavity nearly 

 spherical. 



Basals comparative!}' small, about one-half their size exposed 

 beyond the column, forming a nearly flat disk, with the points of 

 the plates inflected upwai'd at a sligiit angle with the plane of the 

 base. In 3'oung specimens, these plates are more prominent and 

 bend upward at a greater angle. Subradials large, about as wide 

 as high, and of the usual form, stronglj^ convex to tumid. First 

 radials very large, more than half the height of the calyx, elevated 

 around the margins of the facet, and their upper margins abruptly 

 and deeply incurved. There is only one anal plate in line with 

 the first radials, and it is of about one-fourth their size; the 

 succeeding plates form a part of the proboscis which is placed 

 laterally with an upward direction. Body plates comparatiyelj'' 

 thin, excavated in the inside. Surface destitute of ornamentation. 




260 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1878. 



Articulating facet niodorately clevaterl, flat to concave, and about 

 parallel to the vertical axis; its outline circular and notched by 

 the arm furrow. Succeeding radials form free rays, wjiich are 

 cylindrical, thick and strong, the plates having the same trans- 

 verse outline as the facet. The fiee radials are irregular in num- 

 ber, and like the arm plates constricted in the middle, as in ij. 

 ba7'ijdachjlus, with the exception that in our present species the 

 second radial is much shorter. Sometimes, especiall3' when the 

 facet is quite concave, the latter plate is wedge-form with its thin 

 edge directed outward, so that the plate itself is only visible near 

 the ventral side of the ra}-. The arm furrows converge at the 

 centre of the dome. Five rather prominent so called consoli- 

 dating plates of deltoid form, i)laced at the sutures, and resting 

 in the thin incurved margin of two adjoining first radial plates, 

 connect with each other by lateral extensions beneath the furrow, 

 leaving an opening in the centre. Both central opening and 

 furrows were undoubtedly covered with small plates, which have 

 not been preserved in our specimens, but Ave found one in which 

 a part of the arm furrow is covered by interlocking plates, similar 

 to the arm covering of C. lowen.sis, described b}- C. Wachsmuth 

 (Am. Journ. Sci. vol. XIV, Sept. 1877, p. 183). 



This species has some features in common with the preceding 

 one, and had we but a single specimen we might well consider it 

 an abnormal variation from that type. But having before us 

 several specimens of each form, of various sizes, we find its 

 leading characters so constant that we are compelled to regard 

 it as distinct. The size of the column, the form and size of the 

 basals, the tumid subradials, the low cup-shaped bod}', the thinner 

 plates, and the short second radials are features b^^ which it can 

 be readily- identified. It bears some resemblance to C.rotundafus, 

 Hall, of the Burlington, and C . parvibrachiatua^ Hall, of the Keo- 

 kuk bed; but is distinct from both in the size and shape of the 

 first and of the free radials, while it differs, like C harydactylus^ 

 from all other known species in its proportions, half the entire 

 height of the fossil above the column being embraced between the 

 base and the first bifurcation. 



The specific designation is in memor}- of J. Ys . Giles, Esq., of 

 Burlington, Iowa, who first developed the locality of these fossils, 

 and then lost his life while engaged in geological explorations. 




18Y8.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 261 



Position and locality same as C. harydactylus. Collections of 

 C. Wacbsmuth and James Love, Esq. 



8 OLLACEINTJS, Cumbsrland. 



Tile form which we include undei* the above generic name, has 

 been described hy Phillips as Gilbertsocrinus ^ by Hall as Trema- 

 tocrinns^ and by L3'on and Cassidy sls Goniasteroidocrinus. Meek 

 and Worthen, in vol. II, 111. Geol. Report, p. 21Y, have given a 

 very full review of the literature of the subject, together with an 

 able discussion of the characters of this interesting genus, which 

 have been, in some respects, entirely misunderstood b^-^ earlier 

 writers. The true nature of the foramina in the upper part of the 

 radial series was shown to be that of arm openings ; while the 

 interradial appendages, which Aveie described as arms by Hall 

 and others, were demonstrated to be not arms, but entirel}^ inde- 

 pendent organs, supposed to be connected with reproduction or 

 respiration. To their very instructive observations, to whicli we 

 refer as the basis of our remarks, we are enabled, by the possession 

 of more perfect material, to add some interesting facts. With 

 Meek and Worthen we cannot agree, however, in regard to the 

 nomenclature of the genus. Cumberland, in 1826, proposed the 

 name Ollacrinus for this type, and gave very good figures by 

 which it may be recognized with much greater facilitj^, indeed, 

 than by Phillips's generic diagnosis and descriptions. According 

 to the rules of the British Association, Cumberland's name is, 

 without doubt, entitled to priority. Neither can we see anj'- 

 sufficient reason for separating the genus into two sections, as 

 proposed by tliose authors. Authentic specimens of the three 

 European species, GilbertsocTinuH calcaratus^ G. bursa, G. mam- 

 milaris, Phill., show that the pseudo-brachial appendages occupy 

 about the same relative position to the arm-openings as in the 

 American species, and that they are not situated over the inter- 

 brachial or radial spaces, but over the interradial areas. We are 

 inclined to believe that the misconception of the nature of the 

 pseudo-brachial appendages led to a misunderstanding of the 

 arrangement of the body plates, and that the interradial series 

 has been mistaken for the radial one. There is some variation 

 in American specimens as to the position of the arm openings 

 dependent upon the direction of the arms. In the specimens in 

 which Meek and Worthen found the true arms preserved, they 




202 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1878. 



were penilent, and from tliis fiict il was stated tliat in tliis genus 

 tlie arms were always pendent, and not erect as in the allied 

 Ehodocrinus. We (ind this true in the species named, as also in 

 O. ///^H/.s, Hall, of the Tpper Huilington ; but in 0. iKhercnlosus 

 the arms are erect and fold upward over tiie dome; and, while in 

 the latter species the arm furrows and pinnules are jilaccd lilvc 

 those in other crinoids on the upi)er or ventral side, they are, in 

 0. I'lpni^^ upon the under or apparentl}^ dorsal side. The same is 

 the case in 0. tHberoaui^^ L. and C, from Crawfordsville. This 

 peculiar structure is easily exi)lained if we consider that the 

 pendent position of the arms in these species is due, not to a for- 

 cible bending out of their normal attitude, but to the peculiar 

 construction of the brachial parts, which directs them downward 

 and makes this their natural position; and, while it api)ears as if 

 the arm structure was entirely reversed in these two types, this 

 is reallj'^ not the case, the furrow is still on the ventral side, but 

 the arms have rotated on their axes so as to bring it on the inner 

 side when hanging down. 



We have before us some twenty-five specimens of this genus, 

 mostly- of O.typus and 0. tuberculoaus, about half of them having 

 the false arms, and eiglit the true arms preserved also. The two 

 species are very satisfactorily separated bj^ characters, the most 

 of which were not disclosed to the learned paleontologist who 

 described them, by the material at his command. We therefore 

 give briefly' their adilitional distinctive characters. 



Ollacrinus typus, Hall (sp). 



Interradials and anals varying from t and 11 in young speci- 

 mens to 14 and 17 in mature individuals. Pseudo-brachial ai)pen- 

 dages very large, long, and pendent, spreading to nearly twice 

 the diameter of the dome, tapering gradually, each joint having 

 on the upper side a row of bead-like tubercles, which vary in num- 

 ber and size in different individuals. True arras (as observed in 

 five specimens) pendent, long, and recumbent, directed downward 

 from the openings, which originate in rather large, deep cavities 

 under the overhanging margins of the bases of the false arms. 

 The arms bifurcate on the second short, free, brachial plate, and 

 again, on the third or fifth plate above, after which they are simple 

 and composed of a double series of small thin interlocking plates.' 



' 0. itfberosus, from Crawfordsville, Indiana, also has a double series of 

 plates iu the arms, instead of a single, as described by Meek and Worthen. 




1878.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 263 



The ambulacral farrow is on the under side of the arms, and bears 

 pinnules which point downward. Trematocrinus painllahis. Hall, 

 seems to be identical with 0. iypus, for we find both the papillate 

 nodes and long spines on specimens which nndoubtedl}^ belong to 

 the latter. 



Ollacrinus tuberculosus, Hall (sp). 



Anals and interradials about thirteen in adult specimens. 

 Pseudo-brachial appendages without ornamentation, short, small, 

 rapidly tapering to a point. The true arms, as observed in three 

 specimens, are directed upward and folded over the dome, with 

 the ambulacral furrow and pinnules on the inner side, as usual in 

 crinoids. Arm openings in small cavities on either side the base 

 of the false arms. Arms composed of a double series of plates 

 and arranged as in 0. typus. There are apparently four arms to 

 the ray, although in one instance a fifth one was observed. Body 

 plates large, tuberculiform, and not spiniferous. This, as well 

 as all other Burlington species, has two secondary radials (supra- 

 radials), and not three as stated. 



In the fisli-bed locality the 0. typus existed in vast numbers, 

 but, although the fragmentary remains of upwards of a hundred 

 " individuals were traced there, only a few were found in fair pre- 

 servation. They were mostly of larger size and more robust form 

 than specimens from other localities; the tubercles on the joints 

 of the false arms were fewer in number and larger, while the 

 ■lower body plates were less prominently spinifei'ous. 



Ollacrinus i'obustus, Hall (sp.), from Keokuk, seems to be 

 larger and mox'e robust than the Burlington species, but the 

 :Structure of the false arms is not described, and we have never 

 seen an authentic specimen of that species. 



In Ollacrinus tuberosus, L. & C. (sp.), the only species of the 

 genus described from the Keokuk limestone of Crawfordsville, 

 Indiana, there is a marked distinction from the prevalent Bur- 

 lington types in the false arms which are composed at their bases 

 of four ranges of plates above and two below. It is therefore an 

 extremely interesting fact to find that in 0. obovatus, M. and W. 

 (sp.), which occurs only at the verj^ uppermost part of the Upper 

 Burlington beds, there are also four ranges of plates in the upper 



side of the false arms, which is the case in no other Burlinoton 

 k 

 species. This is one of the rarest fossils of our rocks, onlj^ fhree 



specimens having ever been found, to our knowledge; and in this 




2CA PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1878. 



isoliitofl crinoiil we hnvc aiiotlicr iiistnicUve illiisLration of the 

 structural transitions b}' wliieh t3'pes are niodilied in tlie succes- 

 sive epochs. 



0. DORYCRINUS, etc. 



The history of this genus in ihe Crinoidul liuiestone is of great 

 inteiest. The species of the Lower Jiurlington are small, and all 

 liave a single spine which is on the apex of the dome, D. uni- 

 cornis^ O. and Sh., is occasionally found with three, in which case 

 the nodes of the radial dome plates in the posterior rays are pro- 

 longed into small spines — an abnormit}' upon which Hall founded 

 his Acdnocrinus tricorniii. This latter species cannot be upheld, 

 as we find those plates in every stage of development from nodose 

 to spiniferous; sometimes only one plate is prolonged, the otheu 

 one being normal. Yet, this variation is exceedingly' interesting 

 as siiowing the first step toward a modification which, in the 

 Upper Burlington and Keokuk beds becomes a constant character: 

 in the species of those two beds the first radial dome plates, not 

 only of the posterior ray but of every ra^', are prolonged into 

 long spines. The loioer bed Dorycrini have heav^' arms, flattened 

 toward the tips, and closely resembling those of some species' 

 which Meek and Worthen refer to Eretnioci'inui<, but differing 

 from them in being double from their origin instead of single, as 

 in Eretmocrinus. 



In the upper bed species, with the exception of D. jjarvus, 0. and 

 Sh , which has altogether the character of those from the lower 

 bed, the body is larger, but the arms comparativel3' more slender, 

 shorter, and less flattened, while the central apical plate and the 

 five first radial dome-plates are produced into long spines, as 

 already stated. In the transilion beds., the specimens attain a 

 still larger size in D. inlermedius, Meek and Worthen. The 

 dorsal side of the calyx, which in all Burlington species is higher, 

 or at least as high, as the vential, here becomes proportionally 

 lower, while the opposite part (above the arms) predominates > 

 and in the Keokuk species the latter is b}- far the larger portion 

 of the body. 



In the Keokuk beds the extreme is reached. The body and 

 body-plates are massive, the spines which, in the Burlington 

 species, increase with the progress in geological time, here attain 

 the immense length of 4 or 5 inches, and in one species bear 




1878.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 265 



secondary spines. Tliis species, D. Gouldi^wxih. its extraordinary 

 feature of spines on spines, was exceedingly short-lived, and dis- 

 appears already in the lower part of the Keokuk, where it first 

 occurs. 



A ver}" similar case is that of Strdtocrinus^ Meek and Worthen 

 (111. Geol. Rep. vol. II, p. 181). which, in its typical form, began 

 in tiie Upper Buriington, though its ancestry is very readily 

 traced in certain Lower Burlington forms. It apparently found 

 favorable conditions in the upper beds, for several species at once 

 developed extreme proportions, the rim at the brachial disk 

 extending in some specimens nearlj- an inch and a half from the 

 body all around. These large forms are a very common and cha- 

 racteristic fossil in the middle part of the upper bed, but above 

 that they are scared}' ever seen. The smaller types are found 

 somewhat higher, but the genus is extinguisiied in this formation, 

 not a single specimen having ever been found in the Keokuk. 



Barycrinus has a similar historj'. Commencing in the Lower 

 Burlington in species of moderate size, it becomes in the Keokuk, 

 through transition forms, which are with great difficulty separated 

 into varieties, one of the leading genera, and attains in B. magister, 

 Hall (sp.) and B. magnijicns, M. and W., a gigantic size. These 

 large forms disappear with the Keokuk, and the isolated species 

 found in later formations are small in size and of rare occur- 

 rence. 



Aniphoraci'inus appears in the Lower Burlington, where it at 

 once develops extraordinary features in the dome, which is ex- 

 tended into a large, but short proboscis, surrounded hy very strong 

 spines, which sometimes give off four or five branches as large as 

 the primarj' spine. It reaches in America its climax in the 

 Lower Burlington, and no trace of it is found in any succeeding 

 formation. 



3Iegistocriniis, Owen and Shumard, after attaining an immense 

 size, perishes in the Upper Burlington. Zeacrinus, on the other 

 hand, like Cyathocriniis, in its more prevalent small forms, ranges 

 almost unchanged through all the crinoidal beds, it being verj' 

 difficult to distinguish those from a different horizon by definite 

 characters. It even continues to flourish in somewhat similar 

 forms in the later formations. 



It seems, from the foregoing observations, to be a general fule 

 in the crinoids of these formations, that extravagant forms and 

 18 




266 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1878. 



rank developments in structure arc not perpetuated, and that 

 types mostly cease to exist when they reach a culmination in 

 anatomical features. 



We have also seen that, although crinoidal life existed abund- 

 antly throughout the formations under consideration, a large pro- 

 portion of the genera did not survive tliem ; tliat where extinctions 

 of generic types occurred, it was generally upon their attaining a 

 climax in growth ; that the extinguishment of specific forms was 

 not coincident with the close of the respective epochs of limestone 

 deposits, but that most of the changes were made by a series of 

 slow and gradual modifications of specific characters, which cor- 

 respond in a striking manner with the changes in individual life 

 by growth ; that the silicious deposits, while accompanied by 

 great changes in the crinoidal forms, instead of marking sharp 

 distinctions between the limestone formations, exhibit the gra- 

 dations b}' which the}' are connected ; that the smaller and less 

 conspicuous forms w-ere generally persistent, and ranged through 

 the whole crinoidal formations with comparatively little change. 



"We have by no means given all the data at our command bearing 

 on the subject, and our knowledge is necessarily limited. Much 

 further research is required before a thorough understanding of 

 the questions herein discussed can be expected. We are satisfied 

 that a comparative study of the other organic remains, so abundant 

 in these rocks, especially the Fishes, Brachiopods, and Bryozoa, 

 would yield facts similar to those observed in the crinoids. But, 

 however imperfect our investigations, we believe the evidence 

 tends strongly to prove that the distinctions said to exist between 

 these three limestone beds are, to a great extent, arbitrar}- ; that 

 the relations between their crinoidal fauna are most intimate; 

 and that there is good reason for believing that they all belong 

 to one great crinoidal epoch, and should be classed accordingly 

 by geologists. 




1878.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 267 



June 4. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair- 

 Twentj'-foiir persons present. 

 The death of Wm. M. Gabb was announced. 



The Low Governitig Sex. — Mr. Thomas Meehan referred to 

 his observations originally reported to the Academy, developing 

 an entirel}' new view of the laws of sex from that formerly prevail- 

 ing, and which proved that what we called the female sex or final 

 reproductive element in flowers, required a higher grade of nutri- 

 tive power to perfect than the male. Thougli numberless facts 

 have proved this point, there have alwa3's been some which, 

 though the}' have offered no obstacle, have at least not been capa- 

 ble of explanation by the light of this theory, and among these 

 have been some connected with dioecious plants. Among herma- 

 phrodite and especiall}' among monoecious plants there has been 

 no difficult}' in tracing the operation of this principle. In such 

 coniferous trees as pines, firs, and larches, there is no difficult}^ in 

 perceiving that branches once bearing female flowers, and matur- 

 ing cones and seeds, produce nothing but male flowers when the 

 branches come in time to be weakened b}' the shade of younger 

 branches, or in some other wa}' are imperfectly nourished. But 

 when we come to the red cedar, Junijyerus, Virginiana^ where some 

 trees are always wholly male, and others alwaj's seed bearing, no 

 difference could be found in the vigor of the trees. As in the 

 monoecious cases we found the female element in exact proportion 

 to nutritious advantages, we looked for the seed-bearing trees of 

 the red cedar to be more vigorous than the males, but found 

 instead all equall}' vigorous and healthy. 



The enormous crops of seed borne b}' the silver maple this 

 5'ear, together witl^the confirmation of their truly dioecious char- 

 acter, have not only furnished an explanation of the apparent 

 anomaly, but at the same lime affords one of the best possible 

 illustrations of the new theory. 



As already noted in communications to the Academy, the 

 flowers in Acer rubrum and Acer dasycarpum SiVe alike in all trees 

 when the petals first open. The anthers seem perfectly formed 

 when another stage of growth commences. The pistils elongate in 

 the female flowers while the filaments remain stationary'', and the 

 anthers never open ; while in the male flowers the pistils do not 

 grow, but the filaments elongate, and the anthers are carried on to 

 perfection. Each tree is in fact strictly a male or a female tree. 



It is a matter within common knowledge that after the maturity 

 of the immense crop of seeds last month, the bearing trees were 




268 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1878. 



c<iiii])ni;itivc'ly loalloss; wliilf the coinplcU'l}' Itanen male trees 

 nlioiiiided witli foliajic, 'JMu-ie is a well-knoAvn morpliologieal law, 

 that tlie ])arts of flowers and the resulting seed vessels are meta- 

 niorpiiosed leaves. In the ease of tiiese maples, the female trees, 

 eniraiied in developing primordial leaves to perfect fruit, make 

 few leaves in addition to those they started Avith in the spring, 

 until, after several weeks, their fruitage has })een completed. But 

 the male flowers, dying immediately on perfecting their pollen, the 

 male trees push at once into a heavy leaf growth, clothing the 

 tree at a ver}'^ early period with a dense foliage. 



But another consideration intrudes itself here. The woody 

 parts of a tree are made up mainly from the atmosphere through 

 the medium of the leaves, and we may suppose that the greater the 

 proportionate amount of leaves, the greater would be the woody 

 product. Appl3ing now these acknowledged principles to these 

 maple trees, we find some remarkahle results. Notwithstanding 

 the male trees are relieved from the enormous strain on the powers 

 of nutrition which the annual and often wonderfully heavy crops 

 must entail, and notwithstanding, they have, as in many cases 

 this season especially, the advantage of a hundredfold more 

 foliage at so early a period in the season, male trees are no 

 larger, vigorous, or in any way more healthy than the female 

 ones. In a crowded group of five trees where a female tree is 

 the central one, and a male on the outside, tlie male with every 

 advantage of food for the roots, and light and air for its large 

 crop of leaves, and which happens to be an unusuall}' large mass 

 of foliage even for a male maple, the girth of the trunk is four 

 feet three inches, while the crowded female tree is five feet five 

 inches, or two inches larger, with all its disadvantages! 



AVe have been looking for weaker individuals in the male than 

 in the female trees. But since he had first made his discoveries we 

 have learned to distinguish much more clearly between vegetative 

 and reproductive force. A large man is not necessarily a strong 

 man in what we should call vital power; but we measure it by 

 endurance under severe trials, and we see now that we need not 

 have looked for weaker trees among the cedars or other dioecious 

 trees, so much as for powers of endurance under reproductive or 

 other essentially vital strains. Here we have this pow-er thrown 

 heavil}^ in favor of the female tree; and he submitted that dicccism 

 in trees instead of being an objection, is a powerful argument in 

 favor of his views. 



The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, inquired if Mr. Median had 

 ever noticed any difference in the longevity of the male and female 

 trees. 



Mr. Meehan replied that he had so far seen no difference. 



On a Sivgxdar Tartar on the Teelh of a Sheep. — Mr. E. Gold- 

 smith called attention to a deposit upon the teeth in the lower jaw 

 of a sheep. The specimen had been exhibited at a previous meet- 




1818.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 269 



ing of the Academy by Dr. Harrison Allen. He had received it 

 from a gentleman who informed him that he had picked it up in 

 the neighborhood of a silver mine in Mexico. The grass near the 

 mine was contaminated with silver amalgam, and the sheep were 

 said to have been poisoned by the herbage. The peculiar tartar 

 on the teeth was supposed to consist of silv^er amalgam. 



Upon examination it was found that the tartar formed a 

 thin scale covering tlie teeth so far as they were exposed. The 

 thickness was about 0.2 millimeter. When viewed under a lens of 

 moderate power the deposit seemed to have been built up gradu- 

 ally from within, for, on breaking, a series of very thin layers were 

 noticed of which the outer one a[)peared darker than those under- 

 neath. The scales were very fragile. Its lustre was truly metallic, 

 as no light could pass through it even on the thin edges, but the 

 lustre of the reflected rays of light were decidedly metallic, and 

 this property was alike throughout the scales. These scales did 

 not allow an impression to be made with the nail of the finger, 

 hence they were harder than silver amalgam. If heated on plati- 

 num foil it blackened, showing the presence of organic matter; 

 the form of the fragment did not change during the heating, but 

 the silvery lustre entirely disappeared. Heated in the tube closed 

 on one end, at first a gray cloud arose, then water and an oily 

 matter deposited themselves on the upper or cooler end of the 

 tube; lower down near the now carbonized test a metallic layer was 

 recognized with the aid of the lens. The powdered substance 

 being mixed with carbonate of soda, and treated in the same way 

 the result did not differ. If melted on coal with the addition of 

 carbonate of soda there was obtained a white enamel but no metal 

 whatever. In nitric acid the tartar was soluble as long as the 

 solution was concentrated ; if diluted with water a turbidity, 

 caused by the separation of an organic matter, was formed. This 

 organic matter was soluble in caustic ammonia and from this 

 ammoniacal solution it was again precipitable by nitric acid ; the 

 precipitate was flocculent, not at all cheesy ; it carbonized when 

 heated, and left no residue if the heating was prolonged for a suf- 

 fice nt time. 



The remaining solution from which this organic substance had 

 been separated gave no reaction with hydrochloric acid, the absence 

 of silver being thereby proven. 



A stream of sulphuretted hydrogen gave a precipitation in 

 which a very little quantity of sulphuret of mercury was dis- 

 cerned. Yery strong reactions of phosphoric acid and lime were 

 observed in the nitric acid solution with the ordinary reagents. 



This singular tartar is consequently not silver amalgam but the 

 same material of which teeth are generallj' made, modified, how- 

 ever, by the influence of a small quantity of mercury. That 

 metallic mercury is easily absorbed by the animal economy is well 

 known, it seems, however, not to have been noticed on the outside 

 of the teeth before. 




2T0 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1878. 



June 11. 



Mr. Thomas Meeiian, Vice-President, in the chair. 



Twentj'-one persons present. 



The following papers were presented for publication : — 

 "Description of a New Fossil from the Cretaceous of Charles- 

 ton, S. C." By Wm. G. Mazyck and A. W. Yogdes. 

 " On Unio subrostrata." By James Lewis, M.D. 



June 18. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Tliirty-one persons present. 



June 25. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Twenty-seven members present. 



The following papers were presented for publication : — 



" Descriptions of New Species of Fossils from the Pliocene Clay 

 Beds between Limon and Moen, Costa Rica, together with Notes 

 on previously known species from there and elsewhere in the 

 Caribbean Area." By Wm. M.. Gabb. 



" Descriptions of Caribbean Miocene Fossils." By "Wm. M. 

 Gabb. 



Geo. B. Cresson was elected a member. 



July 2. 



The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Nineteen persons present. 



A paper entitled " Pelagic Amphipoda." By Thos. H. Streets, 

 M.D., XJ. S. N., was presented for publication. 



The deaths of Jos. W. Miller and Thomas Stewardson, M.D , 

 ■were announced. 




1878.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA, 271 



July 9. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Thirteen persons present. 



The death of Mr. Bloomfleld H. Moore was announced. 

 The following papers were ordered to be printed: — 




2V2 



PROCEEDINGis OF TMK ACADEMY OF 



[1878. 



DESCRIPTION OF A NEW FOSSIL FROM THE CRETACEOUS BEDS OF 

 CHARLESTON, S. C. 



BY WM. G. MAZYCK AND A. W. VOODES. 

 Anomia Andersonii, M. &\. n. s. 



Description. — Shell tiiin, siil)nrbiciil;ir in outline, Ijiit somewhat 

 irreguhir; beak subcentral, marginal; hinge line almost straight; 

 upper valve moderately convex. Lower valve 

 unknown. The surface of the upper valve is 

 regularly marked with obscure lines of growth 

 and concentric wrinkles, the latter become 

 prominent laminae towards the ventral margin. 

 This shell will be readily distinguished from 

 all other species of the genus by its marked 

 regular prominent concentric wrinkles. It 

 preserves the i)eculiar pearl}' lustre, character- 

 istic of the genus remarkably well. 



The greatest diameter of our Fig. 1 is 

 18 mm., and its smallest diameter is 15 mm. 

 The conv€xit3' of this specimen is about 4 mm. 



Fositicm and locality. — Cretaceous period : artesian well on the 

 Citadel Green, Charleston, S. C. The shell ranges between the 

 depth of 1880 feet to 1930 feet below the surface. We have also 

 the following cretaceous species from the strata between the 

 depths mentioned. 



Ostrea prudentia.^ White; Odrea subspaln^a^ L. & S. with others 

 which we are unable to identify on account of their broken condi- 

 tion. The collection has been deposited in the Charleston College 

 Museum. 



A dorsal view of the upper valve showing the hinge line and 

 prominent wrinkles near the ventral margin is given in Fig. 1. 

 This specimen is from the depth of 1920 feet, and was found in a 

 la^'er of limestone. Fig. 2 shows the wrinkles near the ventral 

 margin much more perfectly developed than in Fig. 1. This shell 

 ranges higher up and comes from the depth of 1880 feet from an 

 arenaceous stratum. 




1818.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 273 



ON UNIO SUBROSTRATXIS, Say. 

 BY JAMES LEWIS, M.l)., MOHAWK, N. J. 



The records which relate to Unio snbrostrafits aflFord a curious 

 instance of the obscurity in wliich the identity of a species ma}' be 

 involved through the influence of trifling 'errors. Practically up 

 to the present time U. subroslraliis has had scarcely' more value 

 in scientific records than if it had never been described. 



To dispel the obscurit}' wliich invests this subject, the records 

 which most essentially bear upon the identification of the species 

 will now be offered for consideration, commencing with Say's de- 

 scription of the species transcrilied from page 134 of W. G. Bin- 

 ney's edition of Say's conchological writings. 



" Unio subrostratus, transversely elongated, subrostrated, 

 radiated. 



Inhabits Wabash. 



Transversely elongate subovate, brownish or pale ochreous, with 

 numerous dark-green radii; beaks but little elevated with a few 

 small, angular, concentric lines ; ligament margin a little com- 

 pressed ; anterior margin^ somewhat elongated, hardly subro- 

 strated ; separated by an obtuse angle from the ligament margin ; 

 base arquated ; posterior margin rounded ; within white, often 

 slightly' tinted with flesh color; somewhat iridescent on the mar- 

 gins, particularlj' the anterior margin ; substance of the shell not 

 thick ; teeth very oblique, crested. 



Length one inch and two-fifths ; breadth thi'ee inches and one- 

 fifth. Convexity hardly over one inch. 



This may be said to be the analogue of the U. 7iasiitus, nob. of 

 the western waters. The rostrum, however, is not so definite, 

 and it is a more convex shell. The aged shell is dark-brown, but 

 near the beaks reddish-brown." — January 15, 1830, New Harmony 

 Disseminator, 



Siil)sequently Mr. Say put Unio iris^ Lea, in the sj'nonj'my of 

 subrosb'atua^'^ and this mistake on the part of Mr. Say maj' be 

 presumed to be the source of the obscurity that subrostratus has 



' Say reversed our present understaudhig of the anterior and posterior of 

 Uniones. 

 * See page 225, Biuuey's ed. of Say. 




274 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1878. 



since been involved in. There is no evidence to show that Mr. 

 Say had any otiier kno\vled<re of U. iris tlian a reading ol' Mr. 

 Lea's descrii)tion of tiiat species. 



Mr. Lea in his treatment of synonymy, follows Say's idea of the 

 identity of iris and sub7-ost7-n(us, but places ij-in first. See Synop- 

 sis (1870), page fiO. This serves to make the obscurity still more 

 complete, and were it not for Mr. Lea's foot-note to iris on the 

 page just cited, sabrosti-alus might for all time have remained in 

 the S3Mionymy of iris, or what amounts to the same thing, the two 

 migiit continue to be regarded as identical. As Mr. Lea's foot- 

 note affords an important hint by which the identification of sub- 

 roslratus is a{)proached, it is here transcril)ed. 



" Mr. Say in his Synonymy, gives ii'is as a synonym of subro- 

 stratus. If they were the same I would be entitled to precedence, 

 as my description bears date March, 1829, while his is January, 

 183L IJis description, however, of subrostrafus does not apply to 

 my iris, and certainly this shell could not have been under his eye 

 when his description ivas made. He says that the subrostratus 

 ' may be said to be the analogue of the Unio nasutus (nobis) of 

 the western waters.' As the U. iiasutus inhabits the western 

 waters, a variety of that species may have been described bj- him 

 for subrostratus.''^ — Lea's Synopsis, 1870, page 60, foot-note 4. 



The most significant parts of the al)ove note are underlined 



In endeavoring to ascertain the facts which bear upon Mr. 

 Lea's closing sentence in the above note, I have obtained speci- 

 mens of U. nasutus from the northern counties of Ohio, the streams 

 of which flow into Lake Erie. In Indiana, Illinois, and Iowa my 

 correspondents find shells which the}' call nasutus, but which are 

 plainly referable to Lea's description and figure of U. Xashvilli- 

 anus. The males of this species satisfy the demands of Saj^'s de- 

 scription of subi'ostratus even to local reference, a part of ray 

 specimens being from the ponds of the "Wabash." 



Extending the inquiry I find that this species merges b}' slight 

 variations into the form known as U. 3Iississip2ne7\sis, Conrad. 



The geographical distribution of U. subrostratus reaches 

 Indiana, Illinois, Iowa, Xebraska, Tennessee, Mississippi, and 

 Alabama. Further investigations may reveal its presence in all 

 the States along the Lower Mississippi. 



I am indebted for specimens and information in aid of this in- 

 vestigation to the following named gentlemen : C. M. Wheatlc}', 




18*78.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 215 



Phoenixville, Chester Co., Penna. ; Dr. R. M. Byrnes, Cincinnati, 

 Ohio; Dr. J. Schneck, Mt. Carmel, Illinois; J. M. McCreery, 

 Akron, Ohio ; Philip Marsh, Esq., Aledo, Illinois ; Prof. F. M. 

 Witter, Muscatine, Iowa ; Dr. E. R. Showalter, Alabama. I am 

 also indebted to the records of the Hayden Exploring Expedition 

 for facts in geographical distribution. 




27G PROCEEDINdS tiF THE ACADEMY OF [1878. 



PELAGIC AMPHIPODA. 

 BY THOMAS H. STREETS, M.l)., U.S.N. 



The crustaceans to be (li.scussed in this and subsequent pai)ers 

 "are oceanic species, and are mostly found leniote from tiie land.'' 

 They belong to Dana's subtribe Hyperidea^ and to Bate's division 

 Hyperina. 



There is a remarkable contrast between the two great divisions 

 of Amphii)oda — the Gaminarideaiin(\ the Ilyperidea. The former 

 are generally found along shore, in deeper water near the 

 bottom, or on floating material, and there is a great resemblance 

 running through all the species; while the latter swim free in the 

 mid-ocean, and there is the greatest diversity of characters among 

 them. 



The collection, which has been placed in ray hands for id(>ntifi- 

 cation, is probably the largest which has ever been gatliered 

 together by a single individual. It was collected by Surgeon 

 William H. Jones, U. S. Navy, and his work embraces a period of 

 about four years. It comes from nearly the entire Paciflc Ocean, 

 north and south of the equator, except the extreme high latitudes. 

 A portion of it now enriches the Academy's collection, and the 

 remainder has been retained by the collector. 



The specimens were mostly taken with a towing-net at night, 

 which is "about the only time when surface dredging can be 

 carried on with any prospect of success." (I quote from the 

 notes furnished by Dr. Jones.) " Those- captured in daytime 

 were taken under special circumstances, such as discoloration of 

 the water, the presence on the surface of objects visible to the 

 naked ej'e, or when passing through schools of fish, Velella, Por- 

 pita^ or Fhysalia, when some rare forms would be occasionally 

 met with in the dredge or net. 



"The dredge was frequently' tried in daytime when the speed of 

 the vessel would permit, and towed for several hours at various 

 depths, ranging from the surface to forty fathoms, without secur- 

 ing a specimen bejond a few that have an almost universal dis- 

 tribution, while, if the dredge was put over an hour or two after- 

 wards, when it had become dark, they would be taken in great 

 numbers. The state of the weather and sea, and the character of 




PROG. A. N. S. PHILA. 1878, 



J. H. STREETS. DEL. 



STREETS ON PELAGIC AMPHIPODA, 





1878.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 27Y 



the night have great influence in effecting their approach to the sur- 

 face or within reach of tlie dredge. A smooth sea, a da)k night, 

 especially if cloudj- or squally, or warm and sultry, seems to be 

 their favorite time for approaching the surface in the greatest 

 numbers; while, on the other hand, a moonlight night, or high 

 winds, and a rough and heavy sea, keep them from coming so 

 near the surface. 



"Usually they approach the surface about twilight, or within 

 half an hour after dark, and remain on or near the surface for 

 two or three hours, although occasionally they remain much later, 

 being apparently influenced by the darkness of the night and state 

 of the weather." 



I attach much importance to these notes, as they give the first 

 information we have had of the habits of these little animals. I 

 have noticed raj^self that a great many of them, when alive, have 

 the property of phosphorescence, and it has occurred to me may 

 it not be this which causes them to shun the light? They carry 

 their own light about with them. 



OXYCEPHALIDiE. 



Bod}' elongate, narrow. Head lengthened in the direction of 

 tlie axis of the body, and produced anteriorly be3'ond the superior 

 antennce in the form of a pointed rostrum. Eyes occu^jj-ing the 

 greater portion of the head, posterior to the superior antennae. 

 Antennae on the inferior surface of the head; the superior (ante- 

 rior) pair short; the inferior (posterior) long, and folded upon 

 itself four times, and concealed in a groove on the under surface 

 of the head. Mandibular appendage long. The inferior antennae 

 and mandibular appendage are absent in the female.^ First and 

 second pairs of the thoracic legs small, and chelately developed. 

 The basal joint of the three posterior pairs of thoracic legs broadly 

 dilated, except in some species of Rhahdosoma. The last pair of 

 legs smaller than the preceding ; either rudimentarj' developed or 

 obsolete. Caudal appendages lanceolate, or linear ; biramous. 

 Telson broadly triangular, or linear, 



' Clans classifies the OxycepTialidte along with the PhronimidcB in his 

 family Pltronimides, and states that the mandibnlar palpus is absent, which 

 is an error. Though absent in both sexes of the Phroiwrndie, it is present 

 in the male of the Oxycephalidce. 




2T8 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [187S. 



0XYCEPHALU8, Edwards. 



liofly moderately loiifj, robust Head narrow, prorlnccd ante- 

 riorly in a broad, triangidar rostrum, short, grooved l)clow ; a 

 constriction of the head may, or ma}' not, exist behind the eyes 

 and in front f)f the first thoracic segment. The superior antennjE 

 three jointed, the middle joint .short; inferior antennne five-jointed, 

 joints subequal, except tiie last, which is short. Mandibular ap- 

 pendage three-jointed. The first and second pairs of tiioracic legs 

 short, clawed ; the third and fourth simple; the last three pairs 

 with the basal joint broadly dilated ; the last pair diminutive or 

 rudimentary; the extremity of the sixth pair — articulating with 

 the broad basal joint — finelj' serrated along the anterior margin. 

 The sixth abdominal segment broad, not elongated. The caudal 

 appendages short, broadly lanceolate. Telson broadly triangular. 

 Oxycephalus ttiberculatus, Sp. Bate. Fig. 1, ^a, lb. 



OTT/rcphalufi tuherculah/s, Sp. Bate, Catalogue Ampbi. Crust., 1864, p. 

 343, pi. 54, fig. 5. — Streets, Bulletin of the National Museum,. Wash- 

 ington, 1871, p. 136. 



Head long, almost equal to the first five segments of the thorax, 

 broad, deeper posteriori}^ than anteriorl}', superior surface straight, 

 on a level with the dorsum of the thorax, inferior margin convex, 

 sloping upward anteriorl}'; rostrum short, somewhat more than 

 half the length of the head, broad, triangular, acute, lateral edges 

 serrated, a high longitudinal ridge along the middle above, extend- 

 ing backward on the head. Superior antennae with peduncle broad, 

 three-jointed, the second joint the shortest, the third longer than 

 the first and second combined; a few auditory hairs at tiie apex ; 

 flagellum bi- or tri-articulate, short, slender, bent forward. In- 

 ferior antennre with the first joint enlarged at its distal extremity, 

 the second the longest, the fourth and fifth together slightly 

 shorter than the third, the fifth short ; the whole antenna folded 

 upon itself four times, and concealed in a groove on the under 

 surface of tlie head. The mandibular palpus long, about the same 

 length as the first joint of the inferior antenna, the second and 

 third joints short, subequal. 



Three longitudinal ridges along the dorsum of the thorax, one 

 in the median line of the body, and one on either side of the me- 

 dian row, with an anterior and posterior tubercle on each segment 

 of the thorax; the ridges are interrupted at the articulations of 




1878.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 2T9 



the segments, commencing and terminating in the tubercles on 

 each segment ; similar ridges descend from the tubcrcules along 

 the front and after margins of the segments ; along the side of the 

 thorax are a number of short ridges, irregularly placed. On the 

 side of each of the three anterior abdominal segments is an oblique 

 ridge, forked posteriorly ; the median dorsal ridge of the thorax 

 gradually disappears on the abdominal segments. The first and 

 second pairs of thoracic legs short, perfectly chelate ; tlie first 

 shorter than the second, the fourth joint short, produced autero- 

 inferiorly, but not to the apex of the fifth joint, acute, spinous on 

 the lower and anterior edges, serrated on the latter, antero-supe- 

 rior angle acute, projecting forward; the fifth joint articulating 

 with the fourth below the superior angle, convex above, lower 

 edge straight and serrated, spinous; dactylus short, slightly longer 

 than the anterior edge of the fifth joint. The hand of the second 

 pair more elongate, the fourth joint produced antero-inferiorly to 

 the apex of the fifth joint, and the tip slightly curved upward; 

 the fifth joint oblong ; in other respects resembles the first pair. 

 Third and fourtli pairs of legs subequal, simple, with a few hairs, 

 or spines, along the posterior edge; the fifth pair the longest, witli 

 the hairs arranged along the anterior edge ; the anterior edge of 

 the sixth pair pectinated, fine teeth in the intervals between the 

 coarser ones ; basal joint of the last three pairs of legs broadly 

 dilated, the sixth shorter than the fifth, but broader, margins 

 finely serrated ; the seventh pair of thoracic legs diminutive, the 

 broad basal joint narrowing distally, the remaining portion of the 

 leg shorter than the first joint. In the smaller specimens the 

 length of the seventh pair about equals the length of the basal 

 joint of the preceding pair, but in the larger specimens it is some- 

 what longer. 



The inferior margin of the first three abdominal segments fur- 

 nished with two sharp, prominent spines directed downward and 

 backward, and separated by a deep notcli ; one is situated on the 

 middle of the inferior margin, and the other projects from the 

 posterior angle. The first and third pairs of caudal appendages 

 extending backward about the same distance, and reaching to the 

 extremity of the telson ; the second pair terminating opposite the 

 commencement of the rami of the last pair; rami serrated, long. 

 Sixth abdominal segment longer than broad. Telson broad, -tri- 

 angular, serrated. 




280 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1878. 



fcH 



Loralitii'H. 



Lat. 320?3' S. Lo .g. 98^30' W. 

 " 28 47 N. " 124 29 " 



35 25 " 



U l( (1 



5 00 " 



25 13 " 



" 142 53 " 



(1 H a l( 



" 128 00 " 



" 133 12 " 



" 143 15 " 



'I'lie males of this species are smaller than the females, and there 

 is a slight difference in the shape of the superior antennae. The 

 peduncle is more robu-st, and the apex of the last joint is produced; 

 the anterior aspect of the produced portion slopes backward form- 

 ing an obtuse angle with the main portion of the joint, and is 

 si)arsel3' covered with hairs. 

 Oxycephalus bulbosus, n. sp. Fig. 2, 2a, 24. 



Female. — Body compressed ; head one-fourth of the total length, 

 the portion containing the eyes rounded in profile, equally convex 

 above and below, compressed, the neck portion constricted, but 

 not narrower that the first segment of the thorax; the rostrum 

 one-third the length of the head (its own length included), de- 

 pressed, narrower than the head when looked at from above, 

 slightly constricted in the situation of the superior antennae, 

 duck-bill shape, acute, ridged along the median line above. Supe- 

 rior antennae slender; peduncle with the first and last joints 

 subequal, the second short, tlie third joint with hairs along the 

 anterior margin ; flagellum two-jointed. Three slightly elevated 

 ridges running the length of the thorax — one in the median line, 

 and one on either side of it — ridges not continuous, but interrupted 

 at the articulations of the segments. The first and second pairs of 

 thoracic legs short, perfectly chelate; the first smaller than the 

 second, stouter, the fourth joint produced antero-inferiorly to the 

 apex of the fifth joint, spinous ; dactylus short. The third and 

 fourth pairs of legs subequal ; the fifth the longest, its basal joint 

 oval; the sixth shorter than the one preceding, but its basal joint 

 broader, remaining joints pectinated as in O. tuberculatus ; the 

 last \)vav shorter than the sixth, all its joints well developed, to- 




1878.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



281 



o;ether longer than the bcasal joint of the sixth pair. The postero- 

 inlerior angle of the anterior abdominal segments acutely pro- 

 duced; in front of the posterior angle or the inferior margin a 

 broad notch, no spine on the inferior bor«.. •. Tlie first and last 

 pairs of caudal appendages and telson extending about the same 

 distance backward; the second pair terminating opposite the 

 commencement of the last pair and the commencement of the 

 rami of the first pair. The sixth segment of the abdomen longer 

 than broad. Telson broad, triangular at apex. 



The affinities of this species are with Oxycephalus tubercidatiis, 

 but is very readil}' distinguished by the bulbous shape of the head 

 and by the absence of the spine on the iuferior margin of the three 

 anterior abdominal segments. There are no males in the collection. 



Oxycephalus scleroticus, n. sp. Fig. 3, -Sa, 35, 3c. 



Male. — Animal with the tegumentary covering hard and resist- 

 ing. Head as long as the first six segments of the thorax ; the 

 portion containing the eyes rounded and shorter tlian the part 

 anterior to it, com2)ressed, wedge-shaped, with the broad end of the 

 wedge posterior, constricted in front, and notched behind and above 

 at its articulation with the thorax, inferior surface convex, superior 

 surface rounded and sloping downward; rostrum broad, triangu- 

 lar, depressed towards the end, acute, elevated in tlie median line, 

 i'n the smaller specimens the point of the rostrum was deflexed ; 

 a broad deep concavity beneath the rostrum for the reception of 

 the superior antennae; the groove for the inferior antennae and 

 mandibular palpi long and narrow. Superior antennae bowed in 

 the form of a half-circle, and springing from the posterior ex- 

 tremity of a lengthened elevation on the under surface of the 

 rostrum, the convex margin densel3' haiiy, the apex of the con- 

 cave border produced at nearly a right angle with the rest of tlie 

 joint; peduncle with the middle joint short; flagellum thr^e- 

 jointed and articulating with the base of the produced apex 

 19 




282 



PROCEEDINOS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[187S. 



of the last joint of the pediinele. Inferior antenna,' wiicn foldetl 

 reachini? nearly to the extremity of the rostrum, first four joints 

 long and subefiual, the fifth short. Mandiliular palpus long, 

 first joint long, the last two short and subetiual. The thorax 

 elevated along the median line into a broad, rounded ridge, with 

 the sides sloping down from the suuimit; the ridge appearing 

 somewhat nodulated; a row of nodules along the side above the 

 epimerals ; on the fifth epimeral a prominent spine, direeted back- 

 ward ; the segments of the thorax decreasing posteriorly, each 

 segment bulging, not overriding its fellow; the whole surface of 

 the body finel}' granulated. First and second pairs of thoracic 

 legs short, chelate; the first smaller than the second, with the 

 fourth joint broad, produced, apex acute, spinous; the second 

 pair with fourth joint more produced than in the first, the anterior 

 margin of the joint nearly straight; the fifth joint as long as the 

 anterior margin of the fourth, spinous below; claw long, acute. 

 The last three pairs of thoracic legs with the basal joint i)roadl3' 

 dilated, and with a series of four pits along the median line of the 

 outer surface of each joint, their posterior edge broadh' produced 

 backward near the middle ; the basal joint of the sixth pair the 

 broadest; that of the last pair small, its distal margin Ijroad, the 

 entire leg shorter than the first joint of the preceding pair. The 

 three anterior abdominal segments with the postero-inferior angle 

 produced, acute, inferior edge straight ; the fourth segment small; 

 the fifth and sixth consolidated, and together as long as the telson. 

 Telson triangular, broad, projecting but slightly beyond the ex- 

 tremities of the caudal appendages. The first and third pairs of 

 caudal appendages reaching backward nearl}' the same distance ; 

 the last pair very short, the rami equalling the length of the base; 

 the second pair slender, and terminating opposite the commence- 

 ment of the rami of the last pair; rami lanceolate. 




1878.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 283 



The female of this species is more robust than the male. The 

 head is deeper and broader, more rounded above and below, the 

 notch posterior shallower; the rostrum shorter and narrower. 

 Superior antcnnte straight, or slightl}' curved, slender, not pro- 

 duced at the apex of the third joint of the peduncle. In the one 

 specimen of this sex in tlie collection the spine on the fifth epime- 

 ral was absent. 



The figure was taken from the largest specimen in tlie collection. 

 The head is longer, and the constricted portion behind is broader 

 than in the two other male specimens. In the latter the tip of the 

 rostrum is somewhat deflexed. 



LEPTOCOTIS, Streets. 



Body long and slender. Head produced anteriorl}' to the supe- 

 rior antennae in a long, slender rostrum, constricted posteriorly at 

 its articulation with the thorax, the constricted portion short. 

 Superior autennte short, three-jointed, curved in the male, and 

 straight in the female; inferior antennje five-jointed, joints sub- 

 equal, excepting the last which is short. Mandibular appendage 

 three-jointed. First and second pairs of thoracic legs short, che- 

 late; the third and fourth simple ; the last three pairs with the 

 basal joint dilated ; the last pair diminutive. The sixth abdo- 

 minal segment (the fifth and sixth fused) elongated. The caudal 

 appendages long, linear. Telson long, triangular at apex. 



This genus occupies an intermediate position, showing the 

 transition from the short Oxycephahoi into the excessivel3" elon- 

 gated form of the Rhabdoi^oma. Its affiliations are with both. 

 Lept^cotis spinifera, Streets. Fig. 4, Aa, 4b. 



Leptocotis xpinifera., Streets, Bulletin of the U. S. Xational Museum, 

 Washington, 1877, p. 137. 



Hale. — Head long, excluding the rostrum, as long as the thorax, 

 deeper posteriorly than anteriorly, gradually narrowing above and 

 below to the rostrum, superior surface abruptly constricted behind, 

 the neck on a level witli the dorsum of the thorax, tlie rest of the 

 superior surface elevated above the dorsum of the thorax, straight, 

 slightly arched over the superior antenuje, inferior margin convex, 

 the front hollowed out below on either side into fossae for the 

 superior antennae ; rostrum slightly more than one-third the length 

 of the head (including its own length), slender, acute, sliglitly 

 arched. Superior antennae sickle-shaped, the first and second joints 




284 PROCEEDINOS OF THE ACAPEMY OF [1878. 



short, forming; the handle of the .sickle, the seeoiid joint shorter 

 than the First, both together shorter than the broad, enrved, terminal 

 joint of the ))eduiiele, nKUi>;ins of the last joint densely hairy, apex 

 produeed into a long, stont process, at right angle with the rest 

 of the joint; a short, bi-artieiilate flagellum articulating with the 

 anterior surface of the base of the i)rocess, two or three andilory 

 hairs on eacli artienlus. Inferior antennae when fohled reaching 

 as far forward as the Ijase of tlie superior pair, the distal extremity 

 of the first joint clubbed, the first three joints equal in length, the 

 fourth somewhat shorter, fifth very short, with one or two hairs 

 at the a])ex. ]\Iandil)ular api)eiidage as long as the first joint of 

 the inferior anteniiiv, the second and third joints short. 



First and second pairs of thoracic legs short, chelate; the first 

 smaller than the second, with the fourth joint broad, and produced 

 anteriorly', the produced portion triangular, spinous, tiie apex long, 

 slender, acute; the fifth joint broad, spinous below and anteriorly; 

 dactylus" nearly one-half the length of the fifth joint, curved, with 

 a spine on the inferior edge behind the middle. The second pair 

 of legs similar to the first; the third and fourth i)airs simple, 

 slender, shorter than the fifth ; the fifth, sixth, and seventh with 

 the first joint dilated ; the basal joint of the sixth broader than 

 the fifth, but with the remaining joints shorter, and closely pecti- 

 nated along their anterior margin ; the pectinations on the third 

 joint coarse, on the fourth very fine, while those on the fifth joint 

 are intermediate between the two preceding; the last pair of legs 

 diminutive, not half as long as the basal joint of the preceding. 

 The first three segments of the abdomen suljequal, inferior margins 

 finely serrated, the third segment with the postero-inferior angle 

 produced into a long, spinous process, the angle of the first and 

 second segments square behind, not produced ; the peduncles of 

 swimming feet broadly oval. Sixth abdominal segment and telson 

 elongated. The first pair of caudal a])pendnges longer and broader 

 than the second, and reaching nearly as far backward as the last 

 pair; the latter short; all of them biramous, and serrated along 

 their inner margins. Telson extending beyond the extremity of 

 the last pair of caudal appendages. 




1878.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



285 



Female. — Animal siualler and slenderer than the male. Head 

 oblong, convex above and below, tapering in front and behind, not 

 abruptl^y constricted at the neck, as is the case in the male; ros- 

 trum relatively longer, being equal to the length of the head be- 

 hind it. Superior antennae slender, straight, not produced at the 

 apex. The tliorax increases in thickness towards the middle. 

 The peduncles of the swimming feet oblong. 



CALAMORHYNCHUS. n. gen. 



Body elongated, slender, almost rod-like. Head large, depressed, 

 produced anteriorly to the eyes in a broadly-expanded, triangular 

 rostrum; constricted behind the e3'es into a short, narrow neck. 

 Superior antennae with the peduncle three-jointed ; in the female 

 straight. First and second pairs of thoracic lego small, chelate; 

 the fourth joint broad and long, the fifth short and narrow. Tlie 

 last three pairs of legs with the basal joint narrowly dilated ; the 

 seventh pair diminutive. The sixth segment of the abdomen long 

 and narrow. Caudal appendages long and linear. Telson shoit, 

 triangular. 



Calamorhynchus pellu.idus, n. sp. Fig. 5, ba. 



Female. — Head long, nearly one-third of the total length, its 

 breadth twice that of the thorax; neck short, and slightly nar- 

 rower than the thorax; the portion containing the ej'es oblong, 

 convex above and below when viewed in profile, elevated above, in 

 the median line, into a sharp ridge, which terminates at the apex 

 of the rostrum, below the eyes from two long and rounded lobes 

 separated by a broad, shallow groove; rostrum flattened, poste- 

 riorly broader than the eyes, commencing on either side of the 

 e^^es in a broad, rounded wing-like ex[)ansion, and taperiwg for- 

 ward to a long and acute apex. Superior antenna situated about 

 the centre of the under surface of the rostrum, small and slender, 




286 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1878. 



Willi the first and last joinls of the pedunc-lc subcqw.il, the middle 

 joint short, auditory hairs at the apex; flagellum bi-articulate, bent 

 forward at its articulation with the peduncle. Segments of the 

 thorax subequal. First pair of thoracic legs siiorter than the 

 second; the fourth joint broad, produced, and rounded anteriorly', 

 so that the apex points upward slightly, spinous and serrated, 

 apex acute, short ; lifth joint slender, spinous, serrated on inferior 

 edge; dactylus long, slender, acute; the hand of the second pair 

 oblong in shape, fourth joint more elongate than that of the first 

 pair, convex below, apex prolonged, slender, spinous, sharply ser- 

 rated on anterior edge, fifth joint slender, as long as the anterior 

 margin of the fourtii joint, spinous, sliarply serrated below. Third 

 and fourth pairs of legs simple ; the last three pairs with the basal 

 joint narrowly dilated, lanceolate; the fifth i)air the longest; the 

 sixth shorter than the fifth, with the third, fourth, and fifth joints 

 minutely serrated along their anterior margin ; the seventh pair 

 diminutive, barely exceeding the basal joint of the preceding pair. 

 The anterior three abdominal sognieiUs subequal, the postero-in- 

 ferior angle acute, projecting. The sixtli segment long and nar- 

 row, slightly longer than the peduncle of the first jiair of caudal 

 appendages. First and second pairs of caudal appendages long 

 and linear, the first stouter than the second, equal in length, fall- 

 ing short of the apex of the telson and the extremity of the last 

 pair, inner margin and rami serrated ; the last i)air short, about 

 one-third the length of the fii-st pair, slightly shorter than the tel- 

 son. Telson narrow, acute at a|)ex. 



Length, 12 mm. Locality, lat. 28^ 06' X.; long. UO - 12' W. 

 Temp, water, 10^ ; temp, air, 69^. Sex, female. 



EHABDOSOMA, White. 



Animal exceedingly elongated and attenuated, rod-like. Head 

 produccfl anteriorly to the superior antennas in a ver}^ long and 

 thread-like rostrum ; neck long and slender. Superior antennas 

 situated in front of the eyes, three-jointed, curved in the male, 

 and straight and slender in the female; inferior antennae long and 

 five-jointed. First and second pairs of thoracic legs small and 

 chelately developed ; the fifth and sixth pairs either similar to the 

 preceding, or with the basal joint very slightly enlarged ; the 

 seventh pair obsolete. The posterior abdominal segments, and 

 caudal appendages very long and slender. 




1878.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 287 



Rhabdosoma whitei, Bate. Fig. 6, 6«, 65. 



Bhabdosoma loMtei, C. Spence Bate. Catalog. Amplii. Crustacea, 1863, 

 p. 345, pi. 54, fig. 7. 



Hale. — Length of the hea<l nearly one-half of the total length 

 (■i\) ; rostrum, from the situation of the superior antennae, three 

 times as long as the rest of the head ; tlie portion containing the 

 eyes shorter than the neck, the superior surface, posteriorly, 

 sloping backward with a gentle incline to the neck; inferior sur- 

 face straight, anteriorly ascending obliquely to the insertion of 

 the superior antennae ; the neck narrowest aboitt the middle, en- 

 larged at its articulation with the thorax, superiorly ver}^ slightly 

 concave, inferior surface straight, on a level with the under sur- 

 face of the eyes, a narrow and shallow groove running the whole 

 length of the under surface. Superior antennae with the peduncle 

 stout, sickle-shaped, first and second joints short, third long, 

 broad, curved, with the concavity forward, anterior apex produced 

 into a stout process, hairy ; flagellum short. Inferior antennae 

 long, joints subequal, except the last, in adult individuals when 

 folded longer than the neck, reaching nearly to the middle of the 

 eye-portion. Mandibular palpus as long as the first joint of in- 

 ferior antennae, first joint long, last two short. The third, fourth, 

 fifth, and sixth thoracic segments subequal and lengthened, the 

 first, second, and seventh short, the latter about one-half the 

 length of the sixth. First pair of thoracic legs with the fourth 

 joint short, dilated, produced anteriorl\' to near the apex of the 

 fifth joint; fifth joint stout, inferior edge anteriorl^'^ dilated and 

 slightly produced ; dactylus long, slender, curved ; the second 

 pair of legs longer than the first, fourth joint slender, but slightly 

 enlarged, produced anteriorly in a long, slender, curved process, 

 acute at the apex, and extending slightly beyond the apex of the 

 fifth joint ; the latter produced anteriorl}^ at its inferior angle into a 

 short process, toothed, distal extremity of the joint enlarged ; dacty- 

 lus long, curved. The remaining thoracic legs simple, first joint not 

 dilated, as slender as the preceding, increasing in length to the 

 sixth, the third and fourth joints of the sixth pair finely toothed 

 on the anterior margin, the fifth joint coarsel}' toothed ; the seventh 

 pair obsolete. The anterior three abdominal segments subequal, 

 the postero-inferior angle produced into a prominent, acute spine, 

 with a broad, shallow notch in front of each spine, la^ spine 

 longest ; the fourth segment as long as the third, and about three- 




288 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1S78. 



fourtlis the leii<xtli of the sixth, slender. Caudal appendages 

 long, linear, serrated, biramous, rami short; the first pair reach- 

 ing liackward to about middle of the length of the last pair; the 

 second pair slightl}' longer than the sixtii abdominal segment; 

 the last pair falling short of the extremity of the telson, and 

 shorter than the first pair. Telson C3-Iindrical, tapering to the 

 extremity, which is acute, and slightly defined. 



Those marked with asterisks had more or less of the point of the rostrum 



broken off". 



In the female the thorax is larger, the superior antennae are 

 small, slender, and straight. The last joint of the peduncle is 

 broad and flattened at the apex, and crowned by a number of 

 hairs. lu other respects similar to the male. 



The drawing was taken from a female, for the reason that it was 

 the only one of the collection that possessed the rostrum entire. 



Rhabdosoma armatum (Edw.), Adams and White. Fig. 7, 7a, lb. 



Oxycephalus annatum, M. Edwards, Hist, des Crust., iii, 1840, p. 101. 

 RJuibdosoma nrmaHim, Adams and White, Voyage of the Saniarang, 

 1850, Zoology. Crust., p. 63, pi 13, fig. 7 (non R. ai'matum, Bate, 

 Catalog. Amphi. Crust., 1863, p. 344, pi. 54, fig. 6.). 



Yoimg Male. — Animal robust. Rostrum broken ciff 4 mm. from 

 the superior antennje, spinulose ; the portion containing the eyes 

 oblong, deeper posteriorly than anteriorly, shorter than the por- 

 tion posterior to it ; the latter spinulose. Antennae immature.' 

 The superior pair stout, slightly curved, first and second joints 

 short, subequal, the third joint long and broad, with the extremity 



■ The antemije and mandibular palpi are in the same condition as in the 

 immature males of R. tchHei, where the superior pair becomes curved, and 

 the inferior pair elongates with age, or at maturit3\ 




1878-] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 289 



crowned with hairs. Inferior antennte and mandibular palpi short. 

 Thoracic segments gradually increasing in length to the seventh, 

 which is about two-thirds the length of the sixth ; epimerals long, 

 with the inferior margins finely serrated ; the last epimeral con- 

 tracted in the middle, somewhat dumb-bell shaped. First pair of 

 thoracic legs short, the fourth joint produced anteriorly beyond 

 the extremity of the fifth joint, the process slender, apex acute, 

 inferior margin straight; fifth joint produced antero-inferiorly into 

 a short, broad, triangular process, dact3'lus long; second pair 

 slender, longer than the first pair, fourth joint produced anteri- 

 orly into a very long, slender, curved process extending be- 

 yond the extremity of the fifth joint; the latter joint longer, but 

 produced as in the first pair, dactylus long, slender. The third 

 and fourth pairs of thoracic legs shorter than the fifth and sixth 

 pairs, subequal, the fourth somewhat the longer; the fifth longer 

 than the sixth, the first joint of both somewhat enlarged, the 

 anterior margin of the third, fourth, and fifth joints of the sixth 

 pair finely serrated. The anterior three abdominal segments sub- 

 equal, the posterior and inferior margins of the first meeting at an 

 obtuse angle, not produced ; the margins of the second segment 

 meeting at nearly a right angle, slightly projecting; the angle 

 of the third segment still more projecting, the margins meeting 

 at an acute angle ; finely serrulated. The sixth segment (fifth 

 and sixth fused) nearly twice as long as the fourth, and the latter 

 about two-thirds the length of the third ; the slender posterior 

 abdominal segments and telson spinulose. The first pair of caudal 

 appendages reacliing not quite to the middle of the last pair; the 

 latter longer than the former, and extending quite or nearly' to 

 the extremit}?- of the telson; the second pair slender, and of the 

 same length as the sixth segment of the abdomen; rami long, 

 lanceolate, margins of peduncles and rami serrated. Telson cylin- 

 drical, gradually tapering posteriorly, apex acute. 



Length, from end of broken rostrum, 45 ram. Locality, lat. 

 2Y° ir N., long. 111° 19' W. Temp, water, 70° F. Temp, air, 

 72° F. 



White named his species on the authority of Milne Edwards, 

 that it was the same as his Oxijcephalufi or malum I have iden- 

 tified the present specimen with White's figure; they agree in 

 every essential particular. What B. armalum, Bate { = Macro- 

 cephalus longirostris^ Bate, Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist., 3d ser , i. 




290 PROCEEDINGS OF TIIK ACADKMY OF [1878. 



1850, 11. 3(12) is, I do not know, !iltliou;:ili Itotli llie desci iplion and 

 figure are supposed to have l)een taken from the same specimen 

 that furnished White's figure; namely, the Sir E. Belelier specimen, 

 which was captured during tiie cruise ol" tiie Samarang. and wliicli 

 is tlie only specimen Mr. IJate claims to have had access to. For 

 some unexplained reason he omits all reference to Wiiite's figure, 

 although he refers to the latter's text. Concerning the Belcher 

 specimen, Adams and White say, " We regret that the state of 

 the only specimen in the British Museum is such that we cannot 

 give the generic character with that detail which we should wish." 

 They also state that the drawing was made at the time of capture. 

 The following characters will denote the difference between R. 

 armatum, Bate, and the present species. The presence in the 

 former of a tooth on the inferior margin of tiie fourth joint of the 

 first pair of thoracic feet; of a postero-dorsal spine on the second 

 and third abdominal segments; the non-enlargement of the first 

 joint of the fifth and sixth i)airs of thoracic legs (White's figure 

 shows these to be enlarged); and in the relative lengtiis of the 

 first and last pairs of caudal apfiendages, the first being longer 

 than the last, and reaching as far backward. I give it provision- 

 ally the name Bhabdosoma longh-OHtrin (Bate). There are other 

 points of difference, but the above are sufficient for the present. 



EXPLANATION OF PLATES, 



Fig. 1. OxycephaluH tuberculatus, Bate ; la, 16. First and second 

 thoracic feet. 



Fig. 2. Oxyceph.alus bulbosus, Streets ; 2a, 26. First and second 

 thoracic feet. 



Fig. 3. Oxycephalus scleroticus, Streets; 3a, 36. First and se- 

 cond thoracic feet; 3c. Head of female. 



Fig. 4, Leptocolis spinifera^ Streets; 4a, Second thoracic foot; 

 46. Head of female. 



Fig 5. Head of Calamorhynchus pellucidus, Streets; 5a. Second 

 thoracic foot. 



Fig. 6. Rhahdosoma ichitei, Bate; 6a, 66. First and second tho- 

 racic feet. 



Fig. 1. Rhabdoaoma armatum, (Edw.) White; 7a, 76. First and 

 second thoracic feet. 




18T8.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 291 



July 16. 

 Mr. Thomas Meehan, Vice-President, in the chair. 

 Sixteen persons present. 



July 23. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Fifteen persons present. 



July 30. 



The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 



Sixteen persons present. 



The deatli of Carl Stal, a correspondent, was announced. 

 Herman C. P^varts, M.D., and Mrs. Emjly T. Eckert were elected 

 members. 



J. B. Ellis, of Xewfield, N. J., was elected a correspondent. 



August 6. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair, 

 Ten persons present. 



August 13. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Twenty-one persons present. 



August 20. 



The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in tlie chair. 



Sixteen persons present. 



A paper entitled "Notes on the Natural History of Fort Macon, 

 N. C, and Vicinity, No. 5," by Drs. Elliott Coues and ll. C. 

 Yarrow, was presented for publication. 




292 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACAUEMY OF 



[1878. 



August 27. 



The President, Dr. Rusciienberger, in tlie chair. 



Twenty-eight persons present. 



Forominifera of the Coai^t of New Jersey. — Prof. Leidy re- 

 marl<e(l that in recent visits to Cape May and Atlantic City he 

 liad incidentally examined the shore sands for foraminifera. In 

 both localities, between tides, along the slight ridges left by the 

 receding waves, he had found an abundance of specimens, l)ut 

 they appeared all to belong to a single species, which he sn|)posed 

 to be the Nonioinna niilleporn. On the sandy beaclies of the rocky 

 New England shores, as at Newport, K. I., and Noank, Conn., he 

 had observed a far greater quantity, of several genera and species. 



Sensitive Organs in Stapelia -^\)v. .]. Gibbons Hunt remarked 

 that his attention had been called to the flower of Stapelia aste- 

 rias by Mr. Isaac Burk, who had expressed the opinion that it 

 was probably a fly-catcher. The flovver of this plant is well known 

 to botanists because of its extremely disagreeable and animal 

 odor, which appears to attract many flies when the flower is ma- 

 tured. Continuous observation for several hours, under a lens 

 •which took in a large field of view, revealed many flies eagerly 

 applying their tongues all over the petals and essential organs, 

 apparently eating with almost intoxicated relish the attractive 

 excretion covering those parts. This banquet was indulged in in 

 safety until their tongues came in contact with one or more of 

 five black spots situated near and alternate with the stamens, 

 when, with amazing quickness, the fly was seized and firmly held 



by the tongue, a hopeless prisoner. 

 Now a struggle commenced, and, if 

 the fly was small and not vigorous, 

 he remained in the trap, but, if large 

 and strong, his eflorts to escape vvere 

 successful, and he flew away, drag- 

 ging from its position the black sensi- 

 tive spot and also the pollen masses, 

 two of wliich are attached to each trap. 

 This adhesion of the fly's tongue to 

 these lilack spots is not caused by 

 any cementing liquid, but it is fairly 

 caught by an organic structure, the 

 action resembling that of a common steel-trap used for catching 

 rats. 



The figure shows the arrangement and connection of these 

 parts. The organ at the junction of the pollen masses is the sen- 




1878.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



293 



sitive trap, find when touched, however lightly, by the Qy or other 

 object (as a hair, for example), the ojjposing, separated, parallel, 

 and hard edges instantaneously close like pincers, and the prey is 

 secured. 



Stapelia belongs to the Asclepiadacea, and analogous sensi- 

 tive organs attached to the pollen masses exist in other genera, 

 and perhaps in all that natural order. We have probably no other 

 vegetable fly-catcher so instantaneous in its action as the organ 

 he had described, and he could therefore confirm Mr. Burk's ob- 

 servation. 



Fi<r. 1. 



Sensitive Organs in Asclepias. — Mr. Edward Potts stated that, 

 at the suggestion of Dr. Hunt, he had examined such species of 

 the genus Asclepias as were within his reach, with tlie view to 

 determine whether a sensitiveness and contractile power existed 

 in tiie dark gland-like bodies associated with their pollen masses, 



similar to those which Dr. Hunt had 

 discovered in Stapelia. On account of 

 the lateness of the season, his observa- 

 tions were limited to the A. incarnata^ 

 native, and a cultivated species, the 

 A. curassavicum, and, as these were 

 identical as to the points under ex- 

 amination, his description would be 

 understood to apply to both. The ac- 

 companying wood-cut (Fig. 1) clearly 

 shows the position and form of the so- 

 called glands (which maj' be easily 

 seen on the flower b}' tlie aid of a 

 pofket magnifying glass), near tlie ex- 

 tremity of the pistil, just peei)ing out 

 from beneath the mantles of adjacent anthers. These latter are. 

 closely adherent to the pistil, or more properly to its stigma, and 

 when separated therefrom present, on the under side, 

 the appearance he iiad endeavored to show in fig. 2, of 

 a pair of sacks or cases in which the pollen masses 

 are suspended, left open at the top apparently with 

 a view to facilitate their withdrawal. The sensitive 

 glands are placed in shallow depressions upon the 

 jierpendicular columnar ridges of the stigma, and 

 seem to be attached to it by a ver}- delicate, easily 

 ruptured membrane. Fig. 3 re|)resents one of these 

 as connected b}' somewhat broad and twisted filaments, 

 with the two adjacent pollen masses of neighboring- 

 anthers, not those belonging to the same. In this sketch he had 

 endeavored to represent it as open and expectant, and in fig. 4, as 

 firmly grasping a slender hair. The fact of the removal of these 

 groups b}' insect agency has been frequently mentioned; his ex 



Fijr. 2. 




294 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1878. 



perimcnts liavc been made to tlctcnnine whether the glands them- 

 selves took an active part in the matter. 



As these species seemed to present few attractions to the 

 insect world, and received but lew such visitors, he was com- 

 jielled to use both force and strategy to accomplinh his ends. 



He at first tried to insert a human 

 Fig. 3. hair while observing the gland 



under tlie microscope, but failed, 

 on account of the relatively large 

 size of the hair and the difli- 

 culty of manipulating it where all 

 directions were reversed. His 

 next plan was more succcssl'id ; 

 he caught house flies and held 

 them by the wings above the 

 flowers, allowing their feet to 

 scramble over them. Almost im- 

 mediately one or more of these 

 would become ornamented by 

 groups of the glands and i)ollen 

 masses which clung so closely 

 that their later struggles and rub- 

 l)iugs failed in any case to detach 

 them. The experiment of course 

 ■was less conclusive as to the active agency of the gland than 

 that mentioned by Dr. Hunt, where in the Sfnpelia^ it closed on 

 the hairs clothing the proboscis of its prey. To avoid 

 Fig. 4. the objection that the hooks and spines upon the insect's 

 legs caught and drew out the glands by friction, he tried 

 a modification of his first experiment. 'J'aking a fine 

 camel's hair pencil, he brought its end gently, per^ien- 

 dicularly upon the summit of the flower, sometimes 

 without special guidance and sometimes directing some 

 of its hairs towards a particular gland, hi a few mo- 

 ments one of the many hairs would touch the sensitive 

 inner surface of a gland, causing it instanlly to contract and 

 cling to the hair, which tore it loose from the stigma. The 

 pollen masses uniformly remaining attached to it b}' their fila- 

 ments were withdrawn with it; and the whole have, in nearly 

 every case, remained together during all the manipulation required 

 in the preparation and mounting of them as microscopic oltjects. 

 H is noticeable that the glands remain open and susceptible long 

 after plucking the flowers; in fact until they are nearly withered. 

 In a recent case he carefull}' examined each gland upon one flower 

 of a group which had been gathered twenty-four or fort^'-eight 

 hours, under a power of fift}' diameters, and found them in this 

 condition ; then, with a camel's hair pencil, but without violence, 

 he removed the whole five, and again viewing them, the change in 

 position of the jaws iu every case was very observable. 




1878.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 295 



If it should be conceded from the result of these experiments 

 that there is at least a probabilit_y that motion can thus be excited 

 in these glands, it will appear further that tlie withdrawal of the 

 pollen masses is so far within the plan of creation, that it has not 

 been left to the accident of occasional entanglement in the legs of 

 insects. But to what end is this rude witlidrawal ? The fertili- 

 zation of the plant l\y tlieir rupture upon the edges of the stigma 

 is a A'er}' natural suggestion. 



But doubt is thrown upon the necessity for this exceptional 

 method of fertilization when we notice the existence of a still 

 more extraordinary one mentioned by Dr. Gray. If we dissect 

 and carefully examine a thoroughly matured flower just before its 

 stigma and surrounding anthers have fallen, we will piobably find 

 some of the pollen masses materially modified in appeai'ance from 

 tlieir earlier condition, and sending forth, al\va3's from tlieir inner, 

 more convex edge, a great bunch of pollen tubes which i)enelrate 

 the stigma at its lower extremity where it joins the apex of the 

 styles. In this view, its fertilization, instead of being, as it would 

 appear at first glance, practically impossible without external 

 help, seems almost absolutely certain, failing where our insect 

 friends or some other form of violence may have extracted all the 

 pollen masses before their tubes were protruded, or where the 

 latter may have failed to appear on account of the prior drying 

 of the stigmatic surface. 



In this connection he would refer to a recent observation in which 

 the facts, though far too few to establish a rule upon the question, 

 yet, so far as the}' go, tend to confirm the opinion of Robert Brown, 

 as drawn from his own ex|)erience, viz., that fertilization in this 

 family of plants does depend largely upon insect agency. In three 

 instances Mr. Potts had noticed upon flowers of A. curasHavicum, 

 beside their own normal features, another sensitive gland and its 

 attached pollen masses, which must have been brouglit there .by 

 some external agency. In each ease one mass of the pair had 

 been inserted under the edge of an anther in the immediate vicinity 

 of another pollen mass occupying its natural position ; that is, 

 while the latter was in, the former was under the antheridial sack, 

 and of com se close against the sloping lower surface of the stigma. 

 The first found of these three instances was not examined more 

 particularly, but the other two forming parts of separate groups 

 of flowers upon the same stem, were marked, the twig kept alive 

 in water for several days to allow time for the formation of pollen 

 tubes, and then careful!}- dissected. It is worthy of remark that 

 by this time every other flower of each group had withered and 

 fallen, leaving these alone. On dissection it was found that each 

 of these inserted pollen masses had thrown forward a profusion 

 of pollen tubes towards the point of junction of the stigma^with 

 the extremities of the styles; and though he could not detect 

 their entrance into the latter, fertilization had probably been 

 efliected as the ovaries had noticeably increased in size. 




296 PROCEKDINOS OF THE ACADEMY OF [18t8. 



None c)f the masses wliicli of^ciipicd tlu-ir natural position liad 

 Ibrnic'd tubes, though in several a strou<i;ly marked ^granulation 

 and tendency to rupture ap|)eared in those eells atij'^ining the con- 

 vex inner edge. 



If it be allowable to deduce a theory from tlie observation of 

 so few facts, when these are confirmed l»y so high an authority as 

 Robert Hrown, he would suggest that while there is no imperative 

 physical obstacle to self-fertilization in these plants, the inner 

 membrane of the anther l)eing cut away apparently for the purpose 

 of [)romoting or allowing it (as seen in fig. 2), yet the maturity of 

 the pollen masses is reached so late that the stigma of the same 

 flower has frequently lost its susceptible condition as to moisture, 

 etc., before that period arrives. When, however, the pollen masses 

 j)ertainiug to one of the earlier flowers are removed by insects and 

 lodged in the position above described upon another just opened, 

 the>' find and respond to the more favorable circumstances, and 

 cross-fertilize that flower. 



A motif is thus suggested for the sensitive character noticed 

 in the above described glands, and the care taken, b}' this means, 

 to insure the frequent transplantation of the pollen masses into 

 other flowers. 



Dowling Benjamin, M.D., was elected a meml)er. 



The following paper was ordered to be published: — 




1878.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 291 



NOTES ON THE NATURAL HISTORY OF FORT MACON, N. C, AND 

 VICINITY. (No. 5.) 



BY DRS. ELLIOTT COUES AND H. C. YARROW. 



The present paper continues a series of articles which have ap- 

 peared in these Proceedings, as follows : — 



No. 1. By Dr. Coues, Vertebrates (except Fishes). 18*71, pp. 

 12-49. 



No. 2. By Dr. Cones, Invertebrates. 1871, pp. 120-148. 



No. 3. By Dr. Yarrow, Fishes. 1877, pp. 203-218. 



No. 4. By Drs. Coues and Yarrow, supplementary to No. 1, Yer- 

 tebrales. 1878, pp. 21-28. 



No. 5, herewith presented, may similarly be considered as sup- 

 plementary to No. 2, Invertebrates, as it gives species either iden- 

 tified after No. 2 had been printed, or added b}' Dr. Yarrow after 

 Dr. Coues had left Fort Macon. 



Numerous specimens, notably sponges and ascidians, still re- 

 main undetermined, but there seems to be no immediate prospect 

 of identifying them. 



Our best thanks are due to Prof. A. E. Yerrill, who has been 

 kind enough to revise the present paper, making many additions. 

 We are also indebted for the identification of various specimens 

 to Prof. A. Agassiz, Prof. A. Hj^att, Mr. G. W. Tryon^ Jr., and 

 Prof. S. I. Smith. 



The classification and nomenclature of this paper are sub-, 

 stantiall}'^ according to Yerrill's " Report on the Invertebrates," 

 etc., in the Ann. Rep. U. S. Comm. of Fish and Fisheries, 1873, 

 pp. 293 e^ seq. 



The Appendix, with which we are favored by Mr. J. S. Kings- 

 ley, will be found a valuable article, complete in itself, on the 

 Decapod Crustacea of the Atlantic Coast, with special reference 

 to those of Fort Macon. 



CRUSTACEA. 

 BRACHYURA. 



Heterocrypta granulata, Stimpson. . 



Was occasionally found in the small mesh gill-nets fishect oil 

 outside or sea-beach. 

 20 




298 PROCEEDINGS (»F TlIK ACADEMY OF [1878. 



MACROURA. 



Eupagurus longicarpas, Sliinp. (= E. lougipes, in Dr. Coues'g List, p. 124.) 



Very aliuiidant. 

 Alpheus heterochaelis, i^ny. 



Collected l)y Dr. Yarrow. 

 Alpheus minus, Say. 



Not uncoininon. Found in the cavities of sponges, etc. 

 Tozeuma carolinensis, Kingsley. 



Obtained l)y Dr. Yarrow and Dr. A. S. Packard. 

 Crangon vulgaris, Fabricius. 



Very numerous on outside beach, and individuals of large size 

 were frcquentl}' found in pools left b}' the receding tide. Smaller 

 ones abundant in the marsh}' creeks of the sounds. 

 Palaemonetes vulgaris, Stimpson. 



Is abundant on the outer beach ; found with preceding species. 



Note. — In Dr. Stimpson's list of the Decapod Crustacea of Beaufort, N. 

 C. (Anier. Journ. Sciences, Ser. II., vol. xxi.x. p. 444, 18G0), the following 

 species are enumerated, which are not included in this nor in Dr. Coues's 

 previous list : Felia mutica, Leptopodin calcarotc. Pinnotheres maculatus, 

 Pinnixa cylindrica, P. Sayana, P. chcetopterana, Lithadia eariosa, Calappa 

 marmorata, Porcellana ocellata, P. sociata, Euceramus prmlonyus, Lepi- 

 dops scutellata, Eupagurus annulipes, Calianussa major, Alpheus interme- 

 dius, Virbius pleuracantJius, Peneus constrictus. 



SQUILLOIDEA. 



Squilla empusa, Sny. 



Abundant on sea-beach after storms, but is frequentl}' taken in 

 drag-nets. Incautiously handled it can give quite a severe wound 

 with the spines of the large claw. It is possessed of considerable 

 muscular power, and uses its spined caudal extremit}' quite forci- 

 bly to escape. Largest specimen seen was 10 inches long. 



AMPHIPODA. 



Talorchestia longicornis. Smith. 



A few seen on sea-beach after extremely liigh tides ; are readil}' 

 distinguisliable by the extreme length of the antennae. 

 Gammarus mucronatus. Say. 



This species, having, according to Yerrill, loc. cit., " the poste- 




ISTS.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 299 



rioi' margin of each of the anterior segments of the abdomen 

 produced into a slender spiniform dorsal tooth," is ver^'^ common 

 near the mouths of fresh water streams emptying into the sounds. 

 Is particularly numerous in eel-grass. 



ISOPODA. 



Sphseroma quadridentata, Say. 



Called " Pill bug" bj- residents ; and is common on the rocky 

 artificial breakwaters of the sea-beach. 



Idotea caeca, Say. 



Common on sand flats. 



Of the Siphonostoma two species have been observed, one a 

 parasite of the drum fish (Pogonias chr o mis), fiVifovm, with a stel- 

 late head, the other oval in shape, and attached to the sting-ray 

 ( Trygon centrura). 



CIRRIPEDIA. 



Balanus galeatus, Darwin. 



Common on Leptogorgia virgulata. 

 Balanus eburneus, Gould. 



Common. 

 Balanus balanoides, Stimpson. 



Abundant on stakes and piles of wharves, 

 lepas anatifera, Linne. 



The onh' specimens secured were found attached to pieces of 

 wreck and drift wood, which had probably floated from far to the 

 southward. These were living when found. 



ANNELIDA. 



POLYCHiBTA. 



Nereis limbata, Ehlers 



Is tolerably common under rocks and stones at extreme low 

 wa,ter-mark. Is considered excellent bait for small fishes. 

 Diopatra cuprea, Clapartde. 



This beautiful and characteristic species is tolerably abundant 

 on the muddj' sand flats. A number were taken on Bird Shoal 

 opposite Fort Macon. 



Arabella opalina, Verrill (= Lumbricoiieieis 02)alina , Verrill, in Report). 



In sand at low water. 




300 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1878. 



Rhynchobolus americanas, Verrill. 



Collected on the flats by Dr. Yarrow. 

 Anthostoma robustum, Verrill. 



Collected on tlie sand flats by Dr. Yarrow. 

 Sabellaria vulgaris, Verrill. 



Common on shells, etc. 

 Cistenides Gouldii, Verrill. 



A lew specimens obtained l)y Dr. Yarrow. 

 Sabella microphthalma, Verrill. 



Common on piies in the interstices of ascidians. etc. 



Hydroides diantbus, Verrill (= Serpnla dianthus, Verrill, in Report). 



Common on dead shells. 



But little attention was devoted to the smaller Crustacea and 

 annelids, and numerous other species undoubtedly occur. 



SCOLECIDA. 



PHARYNGOPNEUSTA. 



Balanoglossus aurantiacus, Verrill. 



The original aurantiacus of Girard was from South Carolina 

 (Verrill). 



Tills species is extremely common in the vicinity of Fort Macon, 

 and its resorts may readily be discovered, owing to peculiar coils 

 of sand which it expels from the orifice of the holes in which it 

 lives. These holes are lined with a coating, apparently- of mucus, 

 excreted by the animal. Largest specimens seen were six inches 

 long. 



NEMERTINA. 

 Cerebratulus ingens, Verrill {= Meckelia ingeiis, Leidy). 



This curious species is quite abundant in the shallow waters of 

 the salt marshes; it is also found on the sea-beach. Its appear- 

 ance is so peculiar when quiescent that the closest observation only 

 could determine it a living organism. Some specimens seen at 

 least ei^ht feet in length. 




1878.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 301 



MOLLUSCA. 



CEPHALOPODA. 



Dibranchiata. 



Ommastrephes Bartramii, Lesueur. 



Two or three specimens of this comparatively rare species were 

 found in Bogue Sound, not far from Markers Island, having been 

 taken in nets. 



LoligO brevis, Blainville (= Z,. brevipinna, in Dr. Coues's List. ) 



Mr. G. W. Tryou, Jr., of Philadelphia, has identified this species 

 from Bogue Sound, Fort Macon. A few specimens only taken. 



GASTROPODA. 



Pectinibranchiata. 



Acus concavus (Say, sp.);^ 



One specimen was obtained hy Dr. Yarrow. 

 AnacMs similis, Verrill. 



Common on sea-beach ; a few dredged on Bird Shoal at high 

 water. 



Columbella mercatoria, Linn. 



Is tolerably abundant on Bird Shoal, from which locality it was 

 dredged. 



Cerithiopsis terebralis, Adams. 



This species is the one alluded to by Dr. Cones in Proc. Acad. 

 Xat. Sci., 1871, p. 141, as Cerithium, sp. It is not abundant. 



Eulima conoidea, Kurtz and Stimpson 



Not observed by the authors, but is given upon the authority 

 of Kurtz and Stimpspn, Proc. Bost. Soc. Nat. Hist., vol. iv., p. 

 115, 1851. 



Strombus alatus, Gmelin. 



Tolerably common on the sea-beach near Fort Macon, numer- 

 ous near Cape Lookout. 



Mitra granulosa, Lamarck. 



A single specimen was found on the beach near Cape Lookout. 

 Is appparently uncommon. 



Marginella guttata, Dillwyn. 

 Margiuella roscida, RedSeld. 



Both species dredged on Bird Shoal. Uncommon. 




302 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1878. 



Porcellana exanthema (Cyjiraa exanthema, Linn.)- 



A single specimen secured. 

 Scalaria turbinata, Conrad. 



Less abundant than S. lineala. 

 Crepidula aculeata, Qmelin. 



Collected by Dr. Yarrow. 

 Littorina dilatata, d'Orbigny. 



A lew dead shells dredged on liird Shoal. Uncommon. 



Volva uniplicata, Sowerby. 



A few individuals of this species were found as parasites of 

 Leptogorgia virgulata, near the wharves of Beaufort, N. C. 



TECTIBRANCHIATA. 



Utriculus canaliculatus, Stimpson. 



Abundant on Bird Shoal, numbers having been dredged there. 



PTEROPODA, 



Thecosomata. ■ 

 Styliola acicula, Lesueur. 



We are informed by Prof. Yerrill that he has discovered this 

 species in the cells of some sponges sent to him from Fort Macon 



LAMELLIBRANCHIATA. 

 Dimyaria. 

 Teredo dilatata, Stimpson. 



Tolerably common in floating drift wood near Fort Macon. Is 

 hardly to be distinguished from T. megolqra, Hanley, an allied 

 form which is more northern. Prof. Yerrill states, Zoc. cz7,, "I 

 have not met with this species south of Cape Cod." 

 Zirphaea crispata, Morch 



Uncommon. A few found near the rock}' breakwaters on the 

 sea-beach. 

 Donax idoneus, Conrad (fossil). 



This species, described bj' jMr. T. A. Conrad, Proc. Acad. Nat. 

 Sci., 18Y2, p. 216, was discovered by Dr. Yarrow in 1871, on the 

 sea beach near Fort Macon, a single specimen only being secured. 

 Mr. Conrad says " is probably from a miocene bed under the sea." 




1878.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 303 



Glycimeris (Panopaea) bitruncata, Conrad. 



A single valve onl^- of this species was discovered by Dr. Yar- 

 row, which Mr. Conrad deems recent, from the presence of the 

 unaltered ligament and polish. Mr. Gr. W. Tiyon, Jr., however, 

 judges it to be from a submarine fossil deposit. It was found on 

 tlie sea-beach six miles above Fort Macon. 



Mya arenaria, Linn. 



Common in the marshj' creeks near Fort Macon. 

 Saxicava distorta, Say. 



Among ascidians, etc. 

 Tottenia manhattensis, Yerrill. 



A few specimens found on the sea-beach. Prof. Yerrill is not 

 certain that this species is distinct from T. gemma, Perkins. 



Chione grata (Say). 



One fresh valve. 

 Lucina crenulata, Conrad. 



Abundant in Dr. Yarrow's collection ; but perhaps not recent. 

 Argina pexata, Gray. 



Common in the muddy, sandy portion of Bird Shoal, where it 

 was dredged. 



Heteromyaria. 

 Modiolaria lateralis (Say). 



Found in the interstices of ascidians from piles. 

 Modiola hamatus, Verrill 



Common in marshy creeks. 

 Pinna muricata, Linn. 



Abundant on sea-beach, less so, however, than P. ><eminuda. 

 Crassatella undulata, Emmons (fossil). 



Yery abundant in the post-pliocene deposits on the main land 

 near Fort Macon. 



TUNICATA. 

 Saccobranchia. 

 Molgula pellucida, Verrill. 



A few specimens of this beautiful species were dredged on Bird 

 Shoal by Dr. Yarrow. This species has been figured py Mr. 

 Binney, who called it 31. producta, Stimpson, which is quite a dis- 

 tinct sand-covered species, and not smooth like 31. jJellucida. 




304 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1878. 



Cynthia partita, Stimpson. 



Vol V coininou in the soiiuds in the vicinity of Fort Macon. 

 Amaroecium stellatum, Verrill. 



Very abundant on I'ocks and stones near Beaufort, and on the- 

 piles of the wharf at Fort Macon. The species attains a large 

 size, and the rapidity of its growth is surprising ; new clean piles 

 nsed to repair a wharf were, in less than four months, well covered 

 with large clusters of this ascidian. 



POLYZOA. 



The following species have been identified by Professor Yorrill. 

 Many other species doul)tless occur. 



Crisia eburnea, Lamx. 



Small colonies were found attached to Aglaophenia. 

 Amathia alternata, Lamx. 



One fine specimen about two inches high was obtained. 



Amathia, sp. undetermined. 



Grows in branching tuffs tiiree inches high, with the branches 

 appearing as if twisted in a spiral, owing to the cells being 

 arranged in a continuous spiral along one side of the branches. 

 Tlie spiral is more rapidl}^ ascending than in A. spiralis, Lamx. 

 (Yerrill.) 

 Vesicularia armata, Verrill, 



Creei)ing over the preceding species. 

 .Etea anguina, Lamx. (?) 



Found creeping over ascidians (Ci/nthia partita), taken from 

 the breakwater. 

 Bugula turrita, Verrill. 



Attached to shells and liydroids. 

 Acamarchis neritina, Lamx. 



Common, growing in large brownish clusters attached to gor- 

 gonijE, ascidians, etc. 

 Membranipora lineata, Busk. 



Two characteristic specimens were found on dead shells. 

 M. catenularia, Smitt. 



One specimen of the unarmed varict}' on a dead shell. 




18t8.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 305 



1 Cupularia ambellaita (Manz.), Smitt. 



One specimen. Too much worn for accurate identification. 



Biflustra denticulata, Smitt, Florida Bryozoa, p. 18, pi. iv. figs. 89-91. 

 Common on sliells. 



Hippothoa hyalina, Smitt. 

 Common on algte, etc. 



H. biaperta, Smitt, Florida Bryozoa. 



Several specimens on dead sliells, one with the ooeciee. 



H. variabilis, Verrill {Escharella variabilis, V , in Report). 



Is tolerably common as calcareous incrustations on shells, etc. 

 In thickened masses much resembles true coral. 



Cellepora avicularis, Hincks. 



One c^'lindrical colony attached to the stem of Aglaophenia, 

 others on algte, etc. 



Lepralia Americana, Verrill. 



On dead shells; not uncommon. 

 Discopora nitida, Verrill. 



Common on dead shells. 



RADIATA. 



The following list contains all the species that have been iden- 

 tified up to this time : — 



ECHINODERMATA. 



Holothurioidea. 



Thyone briareus, Selenka. 



An extremel}' abundant and characteristic species, great num- 

 bers being found among masses of sea-weed on the beach near 

 Fort Macon. Man}' hundreds have been noticed during a walk of 

 less than a mile, particularly after an easterly storm. This species 

 is noticeable and remarkable for a peculiar habit it possesses of 

 ejecting the entire viscera if exposed long to the rays of the sun, 

 or kept for a length of time in the collector's basket. 



Pentamera pulcherrima, Ayres. 



Ligliter in color than tiie preceding species, and has the ambu- 

 latoiy suckers arranged in five bands. Numerous on sea-b$ach 

 after storms. 




300 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [lST8. 



Thyonella gemmata, Verrill. 



Tolerably abuiulaut. 



A walk of a few miles iij) the sea-heacli at Fort Macon, after an 

 easterly blow, will reveal to tlie oliserver a number of piiikisli 

 translucent formless lumps of semi-c;irtilaginoiis aitpearance ; 

 these masses, varying in coloration from light pink to vivid red, 

 are occasionally met with of a liglit lilue or green tint. 'J'liis un- 

 determined organism is, perhaps, the one named al»ove. Placed 

 in a salt-water vivarium after a short time the tentacles begin to 

 be extended, resembling clusters of the most beautiful algse. The 

 entire surface of the animal is covered at intervals with indented 

 specks, darker than the surrounding tissue, these are probably 

 analogous to the warts of Synapta tenuis, A^'ers {Leptosynapla 

 Girardii, Verrill). 



1 Leptosynapta Girardii, Verrill. 



We find in our notes taken in June, 1871, tins species as having 

 been identified, witli the following remarks: "This curious holo- 

 thurian is particularly noticeable on account of its transparent'}'. 

 They are found at low-water in the sand}-^ marshes abundantlj^" 

 As Prof. Verrill considers it a northern form, we i>refer to mark 

 it as doubtful. 



Echinoidea. 



Arbacia punctulata, Gray (Eckinocidaris punclnlatus, in Coues's List). 



Tolerabl}' abundant on sea beacli and inlet beach after storms. 

 It has long stout purple s[)ines, and the anal region is composed 

 of four large plates. 



Toxopneustes variegatus, A. Agassiz (Lylechinus variegatits,? in Coues's List), 



Common. 

 Mellita pentapora, Llltken {Mellta guiiiguefora, in Coues's List). 



Very common on sandj^ bottoms. 



Uoira atropos,' A. Agassiz (Schizaster lachpsis, in Coues"s List). 



Very common. 



Asterioidea. 



Asterias Forbesii (Desor.), Verrill {A. areiiicola, in Coues's List). 



Common. 



' A. Agassiz lias changed this genus to " Moira."" — V. 




1878.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 307 



Astropecten articulatus (Say), LUtken. 



Common. 

 Luidia clathrata (Say), Liitken. 



Not uncommon on sandy ])ottoms. 



Ophiuroidea. 

 OpMura olivacea, Lyman. 



Very numerous on shoals in Beaufort Harbor, 



Ophiophragmus Wurdemanii, Lyman. Verrill, Amer. Journ. Sci. and Arts, vol. 

 ii. p. L3.3, 1871. 



Common in sand at low water. Dr. Coues. 

 Ophiotlirix angulata, Ayres. 



" Common in the cavities of sponges." (Verrill.) 



ACALEPHiE. 

 DiscophorsB. 



Pelagia cyanella, Peron and Lesueur. 



Occasionally found in the inlet creeks. 



HYDROID2E. 



Thecaphora. 

 Campanularia carolinensis, Verrill, sp. nov. 



A small species, creeping over the stems of Aglaophenia, 

 remarkable for tlie unusually large goblet-shaped hydrothecse, 

 which are supported on short and slender pedicles. Root-stalks 

 slender, translucent, wrinkled, but not regularly annulated, giving 

 off at short intervals the slender pedicles which are shorter than 

 the cups, mostl}^ having only four or five somewhat irregular and 

 imperfect oblique annulations. Hydrothecte deep cup-shaped or 

 goblet-shaped, with a smootli, thin, slightly everted rim. These 

 cups are nearly twice as deep as wide, and about twice as long as 

 the pedicles. They taper toward the narrow base with a gradual 

 curvature; the basal portion is considerably thickened internally, 

 with a small septum very near the bottom. Gonothecse unknown. 



Height of hydrothecai, 1 mm.; diameter, .60 mm,; length of 

 pedicles, .45 mm. 



Collected by Dr. Yarrow. 



Owing to the absence of gonothecai the reference of this species 

 to Campanularia is only provisional. (A. E. Y.) 




308 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADKMY OF [1878. 



Lafoea oalcarata, A Agas.aiz. ^ 



Found creeping over Serlnlaria cornicina. 

 Sertularia (Desmoscyphus) Achilleee, Verrill, ep. nov. 



Stem alternately pinnate, articulated, each segment bearing first 

 a branch, and then about three hydrothecre arranged alternately; 

 branches somewhat elongateiJ, simple on our specimen, distinctly 

 articulated near the base, below the first hydrotheca; beyond this 

 the articulations are rather indistinct and irregular ; the internodes 

 usually api)earing to bear two, three, or more pairs of opposite 

 secund hydrothecae, which are adnate to the branch and to each 

 other, and so placed on the upper side of the brancii as to have 

 both their apertures turned upward and outward; the hydrothecae 

 are stout, swollen in the middle, with the upper free portion bent 

 abruptly outward, nearly at a right angle, and tapering rapidl\' to 

 the aperture, which is distinctly bilobed, the lobes rounded. The 

 intervals between the hydrothecaj about equal them in length. On 

 the main stem the hydrothecje have nearly the same form, l>ut are 

 alternate and distant from each other, though still somewhat 

 secund. 



Height of the specimen (probably* young), 33 mm. ; length of 

 longest branches, 5 mm. Gonotheca; unknown. 



This peculiar species would belong to the genus Desmoscyphus^ 

 of Allman, but it unites that group still more closely to the true 

 Serlidarise. Collected by Dr. Yarrow. (A. E. Y.) 

 Sertalaria carolinensis, Verrill. Am. Journ. Sci. iii 1872-4, p. 37. 



A new species, discovered near Beaufort, X. C, by Dr. Yarrow. 

 Uncommon. 

 Sertularia cornicina, Verrill. 



Tolerablj'^ common. 

 Diphasia, ep. 



A single specimen was secured, which may, perhaps, have been 

 D. rosacea^ Agassiz. 

 Aglaophenia trifida, Agassiz. 



Yery common. 

 Aglaophenia rigida, Allman. ? 



Several fine specimens, six to eight inches high, with a few long, 

 slender branches arising singl}-. In other respects it agrees closely 

 with the above species recently' described by Allman from off Cape 

 Fear. (A. E. Y.) 




1878.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 309 



Athecata. 

 Margelis carolinensis, Agassiz. 



This beautiful and delicate jelly-fish is tolerably abundant. 

 Eudendrium tenue, A. Agassiz. ? 



A single female colony was found on Cynthia j:)artita. This 

 species has rather slender, much branched, simple, light yellowish 

 brown stems, rather irregularh- annulated throughout. The 

 branches diverge widely at first, and then bend upward and are 

 more or less crooked. The female gonopheres are pedicelled, and 

 form thick clusters around the blastostyles. (A. E, V.) 

 Parypha crocea, Agassiz. 



This species is considered by Prof. Yerrill to be probably not 

 distinct from P. cristata^ Agassiz. It is quite common near Fort 

 Macon. 



Hydractinia polyclina, Agassiz. 



Common at Fort Macon in clusters on stones and shells. 



Porpitae, 



Physalia pelagica, Lamarck. 



Dr. Coues in a former paper (Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. 1871, p. 148) 

 mentions the occurrence of a Physalia in the locality under dis- 

 cussion, which has been since recognized as P. pelagica. In 

 March, 1871, large numbers were noticed in and beyond the surf 

 and on the sea-beach after a severe storm from the southward. A 

 number of specimens were secured, among them one which had a 

 small dead fish entangled in its long tentacular hydroid append- 

 ages. Most of those upon the beach were dead, and could be 

 handled with impunit\', but when living the stinging produced b}' 

 touching the hydroid tentacles is ver}^ apparent and painful. Dr. 

 Yarrow on one occasion was consulted by a fisherman, who, see- 

 ing the animal floating on the water, reached out and grasped it, 

 but paid dearly for his temerity, as when seen the entire arm to 

 the shoulder was very red, much swollen, and exquisitely' painful. 

 The irritation lasted several days, and was allayed by a saturated 

 solution of bi-carbonate of soda. The Physalia may be handled 

 without danger if seized by the corrugated crest of the bladder- 

 like portion. It is supposed b}' many that this animal is a viru- 

 lent poison, and that fish eating it also become poisonous. Mons. 




310 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1878. 



P. Lali.it in liis Book of Voyages mentions that several persons 

 eating of a lisli that devours the Phi/Knlia became dangerously ill, 

 but this siclvuess ma}' liave l)een i)roduced by other eauses. How- 

 ever tins may be, Dr. Yarrow saw a case in which a small terrier 

 dog died in a very short time after eating a i)iecc of the hydroids 

 of this species. Upon making a post-n)ortem tlie stomacli was 

 found entirely empty) with the exception of the piece of the animal 

 eaten) and greatly congested. Mons. Ricord Madiana made a 

 series of experiments to test the poisonous qualities of Phi/salia^ 

 and arrived at tiie conclusion that it is not poisonous apart from 

 the stinging property. Specimens secured at Fort Macon were 

 about six inches wide on the bladder portion, with hj'droids five 

 or six feet long. Tliey were of a beautiful!}' iridescent purplish 

 color. 



Porpita, sp. 



A single si:)ecimen of this genus was found stranded on the sea- 

 beach, which Prof. A. Agassiz informs us was possibly P.pacijica^ 

 or P. Linnveana^ of Lesson, but, unlike the latter, the hydroid 

 appendages were bright 3-ellow in color. 

 Vellela mutica, Lamarck. 



Occasionally noticed. 



POLYPI or ANTHOZOA. 



Alcyonaria. 

 Benilla reniformis, Cuvier. 



Common on the sand flats at low water. 

 Leptogorgia carolinensis, Verrill. 



This new species, described b\' Prof. Verrill, Am. Journ. Sci., 

 iii. 1872, p. 432, was discovered near Beaufort, X. C, by Lt. C. S. 

 Smith, U. S. A., and was subsequently taken in same locality by 

 Dr. A. S. Packard and the authors. It is of a bright brick-red 

 color, and is found attached to oyster shells near Beaufort Avharf. 

 Quite common. Largest specimen seen was twelve inches in 

 height. 



Leptogorgia setacea, Verrill. Am. Journ. Sci. iii. ]S"2, p. 43.3. 



A very interesting and beautiful species, of peculiar form. 

 Color purple-j'ellow, axis black. One specimen was fift3'-six 

 inches long (fid. Yerrill). Is quite abundant ; attached to shells 




1878.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 311 



within sounds and inlets, but more were seen on or near the sea- 

 beach. 

 Leptogorgia virgulata, Milne Edwards. 



Quite common in same localities, with preceding species. Varies 

 exceedingly in color. 



Anthop odium rubens, Verrill. Am. Journ. Sci., iii. 1872, p. 4.35. 



This interesting new species was discovered b}^ Prof. Edw. S. 

 Morse at Fort Macon, encrusting the dead axis of Leptogorgia. 

 Color light red. Is not common. 

 Titanideum suberostini, Verrill. 



Was first discoA'ered in North Carolina b}' the lamented Stimp- 

 son. Is abundant. 



Telesto fructiculosa, Dana. 



Common near Beaufort, X. C. 



Actinaria. 

 Sagartia leucolena, Verrill. 



Abundant ; found attached to the under sides of rocks and 

 stones. 

 Faractis rapiformis, Milne Edwards. 



This curious species, called Actinia rajjiformis by Lesueur, 

 who took it in Xew Jerse}^, in 1817, after which time it was long 

 lost sight of, was discovered by Dr. Yarrow on the sea-beach at 

 Fort Macon, where it occurred in great numbers after a hard north- 

 east gale. It then resembles a water-soaked peeled pear or onion, 

 with whitish stride. Ver^' abundant. 

 Halocampa producta (Stimpson MSS.), Verrill. 



Tolerably common in sand}' and muddy places inside of Beau- 

 fort inlet, living beneath the surface with the tentacles extruded, 

 when undisturbed. Is capable of great expansion and contrac- 

 tion. Some specimens seen were twelve inches in length. 



Calliactis sol, Verrill. 



Very numerous at Fort Macon ; found adhering to eel-grass, 

 stones, and to shells occupied by the hermit crab (Eupagurus 

 pollicaris). Is one of the most beautiful of the anemones of the 

 locality. 



Aulactima capitata, Verrill. 

 A very common species. 




312 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1878. 



Cladactis cavernata, Verrill. 



Coiniiion on rock}- breakwaters of sea-beacli. It is so firmly 

 attached tliat considerable force is retiuired to dislodge it. 



Cerianthus americanus, Verrill. 



Abundant in muddy marshes. 

 Ilyanthus chloropsis (Agassiz MSS.), Verrill. 



Although I'rof. Verrill states in his pa[)er (Ilfv. Poli/ps. East 

 Coaaf, U. <S., 18G4) that this species is thought to be very rare, it 

 is believed to have been discovered by the authors at Fort Macon, 

 as at least two dozen individuals answering the description in tlie 

 paper quoted were taken on the sea-beach after severe storms from 

 the northward. 



Faranthea pallida, Verrill. 



It is believed this species has been recognized, a few specimens 

 having been collected on the sea-beach in the summer of 1871. 



Some few specimens of an undetermined species were taken 

 on the beach after a severe gale. Maj' be readily recognized by 

 the six white radiating lines across the disc from the mouth. 



Madreporaria. 

 Astrangia Danse, Agassiz. 



Common on sea-beach after storms. 



Oculina arbuscula, Verrill. 

 Oculina implicata, Verrill. 



Both species are common. 



PORIFERA OR SPONGES. 



SILICEA. 



Microciona prolifera, Verrill. 



Abundant; found on stones and dead shells, forming an incrus- 

 tation. 



Chalina arbuscula, Verrill. 



Occurs on the coast of Xorth Carolina, but was not recognized 

 by the authors. 



Cliona sulphurea, Verrill. 



A common and well marked suecies. 




1818.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 313 



KERATOSA. 



Hircina campana, Nardo. 



One specimen, collected b}^ Dr. Yarrow. 



Spongia vermiculata, var vermiculatiformis, Hyatt. 



This interesting form is not uncommon; several large speci- 

 mens, both dry and in alcohol, having been collected hy Dr. Yar- 

 row. 



Spongelia dubia, var. foraminosa, Hyatt. 



Collected by Dr. Yarrow. 

 Spongelia spinosa, Hyatt. 



One or two specimens obtained by Dr. Yarrow. 

 Dysidea fragilis, Johnston (?) 



Specimens, referred doubtfully' to this species b}' Prof. Hyatt, 

 are in the collection. 



It is greatly to be regretted that the identifications of many of 

 the sponges forwarded from Fort Macon have not been made. 



INSECTS. 



It might be supposed from the paucity of vegetation near Fort 

 Macon that this class would be but poorly* represented, such is 

 not the case, as during the sojourn of the authors of this paper 

 at that place hundreds of different specimens were collected and for- 

 warded to competent specialists for examination. Unfortunatel}', 

 names only for the Coleoptera and Orthoptera have been received, 

 for the former from Dr. G. W. Horn, of Philadelphia, for the latter 

 from Dr. P. R. XJhler, of Baltimore, to whom our heart}' thanks 

 are due for their favors. We regret particularly being unable to 

 furnish the names of more of the Lepidoptera, as the collection 

 was large, being particularly rich in moths. 



COLEOPTERA. 



Of the following species, all are more or less common in the 

 vicinity of Fort Macon : — 

 Tetracha virginica, Linn. 

 Cicindela punctulata, Fab. 



Discaetus purpuratus, Bon. ^ 



Harpalus compar, Lee. 

 Harpalus pennsylvanicus, Lee. 

 21 




314 PROCEEDINOS OF THE ACADEMY CiF [1878. 



Harpalus Btigmosis, Hbx't. 

 Harpalus caliginoaus, Say. 

 Anisodactylus mysticus, De Geer. 

 Staphyliaus maculosus, Gran. 

 Trox pujictatus, Fab. 

 Canthon laevis, Fab. 

 Canthon chalcitaes, IlnlJ. 

 Eur} omia sepulchratus, Lac. 

 Allorhina nitida, Luc. 

 Cyclocephala immaculata, Burm. 

 Bigyaus gibbosa, De Geer. 

 Passalus cornutus, Fab. 

 CorynetiB rufip«s, Fab. 



• . T • 



Chalcopbora virginica, Linn. 

 Alans myope, E»ch. 

 Alaus oculatus, Ksch. 

 Chauliognathus marginatus, Hy. 

 CoUops eximius, Er. 

 Macendes melanura, Fab. 

 Oxacis dorsalis, Say. 

 UfrUodon dasytemus, Hald. 

 Priouus laurgatus, Harris. 

 Clytus capraea, Say. 

 Leptura nidens, Forst 

 Monohammus dentator, Fab. 

 Hylotrupes sagalus, Fab. 

 Elaptendion atomarium, De Geer. 

 Charynopha cribraria, Fab. 

 Hippodamia cmvergens, Guar. 

 Coccinella novem-notata, Hust. 

 Coccinella munda, Say. 

 Epilactura borealis, Fab. 



ORTHOPTERA. 



All the species noted are abundant. 

 Mantis Carolina, Burm. 

 Acheta abbreviata, Serr. 

 Xiphidium fasciatum, De Geer. 

 Orchelimum agile, De Geer. 

 Conocephalus crepitans, Scudd. 

 Phaneroptera curvicauda, Harris. 

 Oedipoda sincerata, Harris. 




18T8.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 315 



Acridium americanum, Drury. 



Acridium obtusum, Burm. 



Oxya claviger, Sew. 



Caloptenus femur-rubrum, De Geer. 



Stenobothrus maculipenuis, Scudd. 



Opsomala bivitata, Lew. 



HYMENOPTERA. 



Vespa crabio, Linn. 

 Folistes pallipes, Lacip. 



I.EPIDOPTERA. 

 Fapilio asterias, Drury. 

 Colias pMlodice, Godart. 

 Sphyux Carolina 1 



The last named species is very rare, but two individuals having 

 been seen. 



rtetheisa bella, Drury. 



Very numerous in July and August. 



Spilosoma acrcea, Drury. 

 Tertrix, sp. 



DIPTERA. 



Tabanus lineola, Fab. 

 Tabauus atratus, Fab. 

 Musca domestica, Linn. 

 Musca caesar, Linn. 

 Musca vomitoria, Linn. 



AW the preceding species of Diptera are much too common for 

 comfort at Fort Macon. 



In addition to the list of Insects, others of the following genera 

 have been found : — 



Blatta, sp. 

 Membracis, sp. 

 CorreuB, sp. 

 Cimex, sp. 

 Forficula, sp. 

 Ixodes, sp. 

 Litb&bius, sp. 



Unless, within a reasonable period, further determinatioij of 

 specimens are received, this paper may be considered as the con- 

 cludins; one of the series. 




316 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1^78. 



APPENDIX. 



List of Decajwd Crusfncea of the Atlanlic Coast, whose raiKje 

 embraces Fort Macon. 



BY J. S. KINOSI.EY. 



CRUSTACEA DECAPODA. 

 MAIOIDEA. 



Maiidae. 

 Pelia mutica, Stm. 



risa mutica, Gibbes, Proceedings American Association for the Ad- 

 vancement of Science, 1851, vol. iii. p. 171. 

 Pelia mutica, Stimpson, Annals of the Lyceum of Natural History in 

 New York, 1860, vii. p. 177. Smith, in Report U. S. Commissioner 

 of Fish and Fisheries for 1871-72, Washington, 1875, p. 548. 

 Massachusetts to Florida; Fort Macou (Stimpson). 



Libinia canaliculata, Say. 



Libinia canaliculata. Say, Journal of the Academy of Natural Sciences 

 in Philadelphia, 1817, vol. i. p. 77, pi. iv. f. 1. Henri Milne Ed- 

 wards, Histoire Naturelle des Crustaces, Paris, 1834, vol. i. p. 300. 

 Ibid., in Regue Animal de Cuvier, pi. xxxiii. f. 1. Gould, Inverte- 

 brata of Massachusetts, 1841, p. 327. Dekay, New York Fauna, 

 Crustacea, 1843, p. 2, pi. iv. f. 4. Gibbes, 1. c, p. 169. Streets, Pro- 

 ceedings of the Academy of Natural Sciences, Philadelphia, 1870, p. 

 105. Smith, Fish Comm. for 1871-2, p. 548. Coues, Proc. Phila. 

 Acad. 1872, p. 120. 

 Maine to the West Indies ; Fort Macon (Coues). 



Libinia dubia, M. Edw. 



Libinia dubia, H. Milne Edwards, Hist. Nat. des Crust., 1834, i. p. 300, 

 pi. xiv. bis. f. 2. Gibbes, 1. c, p. 109. Streets, 1. c, f. 104. Smith, 

 Rep. Fish Comm., p. 548. 



Long Island to Florida; West Coast of Africa (Streets). 



Leptopodidee. 

 Metoporhapis calcarata, Stimpson. 



Leptopodia calcarata. Say, 1. c. i., p. 445. Edw., H. N. Crust., i. p. 276, 



Dekay, op. cit. p. 3. Gibbes, 1. c, p. 169. 

 Metoporhapis calcarata, Stimpson, Ann. Lye. vii. p. 198. 



Beaufort, N. C. (Stimpson), to Charleston, S. C. 




1878.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 311 



Parthenopidae. 

 Heterocrypta granulata, Stimpson. 



Cryptopodia granulata, Gibbes,, 1. c, p. 173 ; ibid., Proceedings of the 

 Elliot Society of Charleston, S. C, June, 1856, i. p. 35 (wood-cut). 

 Stimpson, Ann. Lye, vii. p. 202. 

 Heterocrypta granulata, Stimpson, Annals Lye, 1870, x. p. 103. 



Beaufort, N. C. (Stimpson), to the West Indies. 



CANCROIDEA. 



Cancridae. 

 Cancer irroratus, Say. 



Cancer irroratus:, Say, 1. c, i. p. 59, pi. iv. f. 2. Stimp. Ann. Lye. vii. 



p. 50. Smith, Fish Comm. p. 546. Cones, 1. c, p. 120. 

 Platycarcinus irroratus, M. Edw., op. cit., i., p. 414. 

 Cancer sayi, Gould, op. cit., p. 323. 

 Platycarcinus sayi, Dekay, op. cit., p. 7, pi. ii. f. 2. Gibbes, Proc. 



American Asso. iii. p. 177. 

 Cancer borealis, Packard, Memoirs Boston Society of Natural Historj^ 

 1867, i. p. 303. 

 Labrador to South Carolina ; Fort Macon (Cones). 



Cancer borealis, Stimpson. 



Cancer irroratus, 9 Say, Journal of the Academy of Natural Sciences, 



Philadelphia, 1818, vol. i. p. 59. , 

 Cancer irroratus, Gould, Invertebrata of Massachusetts, 1841, p. 322. 

 Platycarcinus irroratus, Dekay, N. Y. Fauna, Crustacea, 1842, pi. 6. 

 Cancer borealis, Stimpson, Annals Lyceum Nat. Hist. N. Y., 1860, vii. 



p. 50. Smith, Report U. S. Fish Commission for 1871-2, p. 546. 



A young specimen of this well-marked and valid species occurs 

 in the collection made at Fort Macon, N. C, by Dr. A. S. Packard, 

 Jr., and I am informed by Mr. Faxon that tliere are specimens in 

 the Museum of Comparative Zoology, at Cambridge, from the 

 Bermudas. 



It is readily separated from the common Cancer irroraluff^ Say, 

 by the granulated carapax and the crenulated antero-lateral teeth. 

 This species was described by Say (l. c.) as the female of his C. 

 irroratus. But it was first pointed out by Dr. Gould that it was 

 a distinct species. He, however, thought proper to retain the 

 name for this species, rather than the more common form, which 

 Say regarded as the male. , 



It ranges from Nova Scotia to the West Indies. 




318 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [l8T8. 



Menippe mercenaria, Slimpson. 



Cancer nierrenaria, Say, 1. c, 1818, i. p. 448. 



Cancer (XanlJio) mercenaria, H. Milne Edwards, Histoire Natiirelle 



d('8 Crustaces, 1834, vol. i. p. 399. 

 fPseadocarcinux ocellatus, Edw., op. cit., 1834, i p. 400. 

 Pseudocarcimis merccnnria, Gibbes, Proceedings American Association 



for the Advancement of Science, 1851, iii. p 176. 

 Menippe mercenaria, Stimpson, Annals N. Y. Lyceum, 1809, vii. p. 53 



(in fe.xt). Streets, Proceedings of the Academy of Natural Sciences, 



Philadelphia, 1871, p. 239. Coues, 1. c, p. 120. 



North Carolina to Florida. Dr. Street.? {I. c.) report-s it from 

 the Isthmus of Panama. Fort Macon (Packard). 



It is readily sejjarated from the only other species of Mfnippe 

 (31. rumphii, De Haan, Stimpson, Annals X. Y. Lj'ceum, 1871, x. 

 p. 107) found on this coast, by the sliarp edges of the teeth on the 

 antero-lateral margin. 



Dr. Coues sent the dactyhis of the cheliped of an enormous 

 exami)le to the Peabod}'' Academy. It measured three inches in 

 length. 



Panopeus herbstii, Edwards. 



Cancer panope, Herbst, Naturgeschichte der Krabben und Krebse, pi. 



54, f. 5. Say, 1. c, 1818, i. p. 58, pi. iv. f. 6. 

 Panopeus herhstii, Edw., op. cit, i. p. 403. Dekay, op. cit., p. 5, pi. ix. 

 f. 26. Gibbes, 1. c, iii. p. 175. Heller, Reise der Novara, p. 16. 

 Smith, Proceedings of the Boston Society of Natural History, 1869, 

 xii. p. 276 ; ibid., Transactions of the Connecticut Academy of Arts 

 and Sciences, 1869, ii. p. 34; ibid., lieport U. S. Fish Commission, 

 1871-2, p. 547. Coues, 1. c. p. 120. 

 Long Island Sound to Brazil. Dr. Packard collected a quantity 

 at Fort Macon. 



Panopeus herhstii var. obesus, Smith, Proc. Bost. Soc. xii. p. 278. 

 Coues, 1. c, 1871, p. 120. 



A single specimen, which I refer with a doubt to this species 

 and variety, was found among the collections made by Dr. Packard 

 at Fort Macon. The front is prominent, arcuate, but has only 

 two lobes. The lateral lobes resemble somewhat those of obesus, 

 the last being obtuse and not at all curved forward. The single 

 specimen, a female, gives the following measurements : — 



Length of carapax 9 mm., breadth, 12.2 mm., ratio 1 : 1.36. 



Smith's specimens came from Egmont Ke}', Florida, and Aspin- 

 wall. 




1818.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 319 



Fanopeus depressus, Smith. 



Panopeus deprensus. Smith, Proc. Bost. Soc. xii. p. 283; ibid., Fisli 

 Comm., p. 547, pi. i. f. 3. 



Massachusetts Bay to Florida. 

 Panopeus sayi, Smith. 



Panopeus sayi, Smith, Proc. Bost. Soc, xii. p. 284; ibid., Rep. U. S. 

 Fish Comm., p. 547. 



IMassachusetts to Florida. 

 Panopens harrisii, Stm. 



Pilumnus harrisii, Gould, op. cit., p. 336. Dekay, op. cit., p. 7, pi. 



vii. f. 15. 

 Panopeus harrisii, Stimpson, Ann. Lye, vii. p. 55. Smith, Fish 

 Comm., p. 547. 



Massachusetts Bay to Florida. 



The various species of North American Panopei are well sepa- 

 rated by Prof. Smith in the paper referred to in the Proceedings 

 of the Boston Societ3\ 

 Eurytiuin limosum, Stm. 



Cancer limosus, Say, 1. c, p. 446. 



Panopeus limosus, Edwards, op. cit., i. p. 404. Dekay, op. cit., p. 5. 



Gibbes, 1. c, p. 176. 

 Eurytium limosum, Stm., Ann. Lye, vii. p. 56. 



New York to Florida. 



Eriphidae. 



Pilumnus aculeatus, M. Edw. 



Cdticer aculeatus. Say, 1. c, i. p. 449. 



Pilumnus aculeatus, M. Edw., op. cit., i. p. 420. Dekay, op. cit., p. 

 8. Gibbes, 1. c, p. 177. Stimpson, Bulletin of the Museum of Com- 

 parative Zoology, 1871, ii. p. 141. Coues, 1. c, p. 120. 



Fort Macon (Coues) to Florida. 



PortunidcB. 



Neptunus sayi, Stimp. 



Lupa pelagica, Say, 1. c, p. 97. Dekay, op. cit., p. 11, pi. vi. f. 8 (non 



Leach). 

 Lupa sayi, Gibbes, 1. c, p. 178. Dana, Crustacea U. S. Exploring 



Expedition, 1852, p. 273, pi. xvi. f. 8. Stimpson, Proceedings Acad. 



Nat. Sci., Philadelphia, 1858, p. 38. 

 Neptunus sayi, Stimpson Ann. Lye, vii. p. 220 ; ibid., Bulletin M. C. 



Z., ii. p. 147. A. Milne Edwards, Archives du Museum d'Histoire 



Naturelle, 1861, t. x. p. 317, pi. xxix. f 2. 



New York to Florida. 




320 PROCEEDINOK OF THE ACADEMY OF [1878. 



Callinectes hastatua, Orclway. 



Liipa hamUitdy Say, 1. c , 1818, i. p. Or». 

 Lupa diticanthd, Dckay, op. cit., 1842, p. 10. j)!. iii. f. 3. 

 Cdlliiiertes Jiastatus, Orchvay, Journal Boston Society, vii. p. r)C8. 

 Sniitli, Kcp. U. S. Fish Conini. 1871, 3, p. r>48. Coues, 1. c, p. 120. 

 Tills spi'cies wliifli, at tlie time of inoultiiij;, fiirnisiies tlic wcll- 

 known soft slicll criib, is found fioin Siileni, Mass., to Florid.a and 

 Alaljaina. It is, ho\v(iver, rafe noitli of Cape Cod. Several spe- 

 cimens brought l)y Dr. Packaid from Fort Maeon. 



Araneus cribrarias, Dana. 



Portunm cribrarius, Lamarck, Animaux sans Vertebres, v. p. 259 



(teste M. Edwards). 

 Liifii. maculata. Say, 1. c, p. 445. Dckay, op. cit., p. 11. 

 Lupa cribrarki, Edw. Crustaccs, i. p. 452, pi. xviii. f. 1. Gibbes, 1. c, 



p. 178. 

 Araneus cribrarius, Dana, U. S. Exploring Exped. Crustacea, p. 290, 

 pi. xviii., f. 2. Smith, Transactions Connecticut Acad., ii. p. 35 ; 3d 

 Report Peabody Academy of Science, 1871, p. 91. Coues, 1. c, p. 

 121. 

 Ifeptunus cTibrarids, A. M. Edw., Arch. Mus. d'Hist. Nat. 18G1, t. x. 

 p. 324. 

 New Jersey to Aspinwall and Brazil ; Fort Macon (Coues and 

 Packard). 



Achelous spinimana, De Ilaan. 



Portunus »pinimanus, Latreille, Encyclopedle Methodique, x. p. 188 



(teste Edwards). 

 Lupa ftpinhnana, Leach. Desmarest Considerations sur les Crustaces, 

 1825, p. 98. Edw., op. cit., i. p. 452. Dana, U. S. Ex. Ex., Crust, 

 i. p. 273. Stimpson, Ann. Lye, vii. p. 57. 

 Achelous spinimana, De Haan, Fauna Japonica, p. 8. Stimpson, Ann. 

 *Lyc., vii. p. 221; ibid., BullL'tin .AIus. Comp. Zool. ii. p. 150. Al- 

 phonse Milne Edwards, Archiv. du Museum d' Histoire Xaturelle, 

 tome X. p. 341, pi. xxxii. f. 1. Heller, Reise der Osterreiciien Frig- 

 gate Novara, p. 27. Smith, Trans. Conn. Acad., ii. pp. 9 and 34. 

 Coues, 1. c, p. 120. 



Fort Macon (Cones) to Brazil. 



Achelous gibbesii, Stimpson. 



Lupa gibbesii, Stimpson, Ann. Lye, vii. p. 57. 



Achelous gibbesii, Stimpson, Ann. Lye, vii. p. 222. Coues, 1. c, p. 121. 



Neptunus gibbesii, A. M. Edw., 1. c, p. 32G, pi. xxxi. f. 1. 



Fort Macon (Coues) to Florida. 

 Achelous depressifrous, Stimpson. 



Amphitrite depressifrous, Stimpson, Ann. Lye, vii. p. 58. 




ISYS.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 321 



Achelous depressifrona, Stimpson, 1. c, vii. p. 223. Alph. M. Edw., 

 1. c. X. p. 343. Coues, 1. c, p. 121. 



Fort Macon (Coues) to Florida. 



Platyonichidae. 

 Carcinus moenas, Leach. 



Cancer mcenas. Pennant, British Zoology, iv. p. 3. pi. iii. f. 5 (teste 

 Bell). 



Portunus moenas, Leach, Ediuburg Encyclopedia, vii. p. 390 (teste 

 Bell). 



Carcinus ananas, Leach, 1. c, p. 429 ; ibid.. Trans. Linnean Society of 

 London, xi. p. 314 ; ibid., Malacostraca Podophthalniia Brittanic-e, 

 pi. V. f s. 1-4. M. Edw., op. cit. i. p. 434. Gould, op. cit., p. 331. 

 Dekay, op. cit., p. 8, pi. v. f's. .'5-6. Bell, British Stalk-eyed Crus- 

 tacea, 1853, p. 76. Streets, Bulletin U. S. National Museum No. 7, 

 1877, p. 109. Kingsley, Bulletin Hayden's Survey, 1878, iv. p. 191. 



Cancer granulatus, Say, 1. c, 1817, i. p. 61. 



Carcinus granulatus, Smith, Fish Comm. p. 547. 



This species is almost cosmopolitan in its range. It is founrl 

 on the Eastern Coast of the U. S., from Cape Cod to New Jersey, 

 at Panama, in the Hawaiian Islands, France and England, in the 

 Baltic and Mediterranean, the Red Sea, Brazil, and, doubtfully, 

 in Australia. 



Platyonichus ocellatus, Latreille. 



Cancer ocellatus, Herbst, Naturgeschichte der Krabben und Krebse, p. 

 61, pi. xlix. f. 4. 



Portunus pictus, Say, 1. c, i. p. 63, pi. iv. f. 4. 



Platyonichus ocellatus, Latreille, Encyc. IMethod., xvi. p. 152. Edw , 

 op. cit., i. p. 437. Delvay, op. cit., p. 9, pi. i. f. 1, pi. v. f. 7. Gibbes, 

 1. c, p. 177. A. Milne Edwards, 1. c, x. p. 415, pi. xxxvi. f. 4 

 (1861). Smith, Fish Comm., p. 547, pi. i. f. 1. Coues, 1. c, p. 130. 



Proviucetown, Mass., to Florida; Fort Macon (Coues). 



OCYPODOIDEA. 



Ocypodidee. 



Gelasimus minax, Le Conte. 



Gehtsimus minax, Le Conte, Proceedings Acad. Nat. Sci., Philadel- 

 phia, 1855. p. 403. Smith, Trans. Conn. Acad , ii. p. 128, pi. ii. f. 

 4, pi. iv. f. 1-1 b. Ibid., Fish Commission, p. 545. Coues, 1. c, 121. 

 Gelasimus palustris (pars), Stimpson, Ann. Lye , vii. p. 62. 



Kew Haven to Florida; Fort Macon (Coues). ' 




322 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1878. 



Gelasimus pugn&x, Smith. 



Gcldxiiiius vocinis (pars), Gould, op. cit., p. 32o. 



Oeldsiinus vocans, var. yl., DoKay, op. cit., p. 14, jil. vi. f. 10 (non C(in- 

 rer vorans, L.) 



Geliisiinus pugHl((to)\ Lc C'onte, 1. c, p. 40.3 (noii Rose). 



Gel<i«iinnH palustri^, {ptirs)^ Stinipsou, 1. c, vii. p. 02 (non Milne Ed- 

 wards). 



OehtsimvH pugnax, Smith, Trans. Conn. Acad., ii. p. I.'ll, pi. ii. f. 1, 

 pi. iv. f. 2. Ibid., Fish Commission, p. h\~). Cones, 1. c. p. 121. 



Cape Cod to Florida, the West Indies, and the Gulf of Mexico ; 

 Fort Macon (Coues). 



Gelasimus pugillator, Latreille. 



Ocypodit ]iii;/iUafi)r, Bosc, Histoire Natnrolle des Crustaces, i. p. 197. 



Ocypoda inigillator (pars), Say, 1. c. i. pp. 71 and 443. 



Gelasimus pugillator, Latreille, Nouv. Dictionaire d' Histoire Naturelle, 

 2me Edition, t. xii. p. 250. Desmarest, Considerationes sur les Crus- 

 tac^s, p. 123. H. Milne Edwards, Annalcs des Sciences Naturelles, 

 Zoologie, t. xviii. p. 14, pi. iv. f. 149. Stimpson, Ann. Lye, vii. p. 

 62. Smith, Trans. Conn. Acad., ii. p. 13G, pi. iv. f. 7. Ibid., Fish 

 Comm., p. 545. Coues, 1. c, p. 121. 



Gelasimus vocans (pars), Gould, op. cit., p. 325. 



Gelasimus vocans, DeKay, op. cit., p. 14, pi. vi. f. 9. 



Cape Cod to the West Coast of Florida ; Fort Macon (Cones). 



Ocypoda arenaria, Say. 



Cancer areuarius, Catesby's Carolina, ii. pi. 35 (teste Say, Edwards). 



Ocypoda arenaria. Say, Journal Academy of Natural Sciences, Phila- 

 delphia, 1817, i. p. 69. H. Milne Edwards, Hist. Nat. des Crust., ii. 

 p. 44, pi. six. f. 13-14. Dekay, op. cit., p. 13. Gibbes, 1. c.. p. 180. 

 Smith, Rep. U. S. Fish Commission, p. 545. Coues, 1. c, p. 122. 



Long Island, southward ; Fort Macon (Coues). 



Professor S. I. Smith (1. c.) says that our form seems to be 

 identical with the Brazilian one, which is known as 0. rhombea.^ 

 Fabricius, in which case the name rhombea will hold. In case 

 they be different, the names 0. quadratum, Bosc, and 0. albicans 

 seems to have priority over Saj-'s name. Profes.sor Smith has 

 also shown (1. c. p. 534), and in the "American Journal of Science 

 and Arts," 3d Series, vol. vi. p. 67 (1873), that the Monolejns iner- 

 mis of Say (1. c, p. 157), is the " megalops stage" of the present 

 species. The habits are well described by Dr. Coues. 




18Y8.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 323 



Grapsidae. 



Sesarma reticulata, Say. 



Sesarma reticulata. Say, 1. c. i. pp. 73, 76, and 442, p]. iv. f. 6. Gibbes, 

 1. c. p. 180. Edw., Ann. Sci. Nat., III. xx. p. 182. Stimpson, Annals 

 N. Y. Lye, vii. p. 66. Smith. Trans. Conn. Acad., ii. p. 156. 

 Ibid., U. S. Fish Commission, p. 546. Cones, 1. c, p. 121. 



Sesarma reticulata, Dekay, op. cit., p. 15. 



Long Island Sound to Florida; Fort Macon (Coues, Packard). 



Sesarma cinerea, Say. 



Grapsus ciiiereus, Bosc, Histoire Naturelle des Crustaces, i. p. 204, pi. 



V. f. 1. 

 Sesarma cinerea. Say, 1. c, i. p. 442. Edwards, op. cit., ii. p. 75. Ibid., 

 Annales des Sciences Naturelles, Illme Serie, Zoologie, t. xx. p. 182. 

 Gibbes, 1. c, p. 180. Stimpson, Annals N. Y. Lyceum, vii. p. 65. 

 Smith, Transactions Connecticut Academy, ii. p. 157. Coues, 1. c, 

 p. 121. 



Virginia to Florida ; Fort Macon (Cones). 



Pinnotheridae. 



Pinnotheres ostreum, Say. 



Pinnotheres ostreum, Say, 1. c, i. p. 67, pi. iv. f. 5. Gould, Invert. 

 Mass., p. 328. Dekay, op. cit., p. 12, pi. vii. f. 16. Gibbes, 1. c, p. 

 179. Stimpson, Annals N. Y. Lyceum, vii. p. 67. Coues 1. c, p. 

 123. Smith, Fish Comm., p. 546. 



Salem, Mass. (in transplanted oysters), to South Carolina ; 

 Fort Macon (Coues). 



Pinnotheres maculatus, Say. 



Pinnotheres maculatus, Say, 1. c, i. p. 450. Dekay, op. cit., p. 13. 

 Gibbes, 1. c, p. 179. Stimpson, Ann. N. Y. Lyceum, vii. p. 67. 

 Smith, Fish Comm., p. 546. 

 Pinnotheres ostreum, % Smith, Fish Coram., pi. i. f. 2. 



Cape Cod to South Carolina ; Fort Macon, Stimpson. 



(The following species of Pinnotheres maj^ possibly' be found 

 at Fort Macon. They were described by Say, but so far as I am 

 aware they have not been observed by other carcinologists : — 



P. depressum, from New Jerse3\ 



P. hysHomyse^ " Southern coast." 



P. monodactylum^ no locality. 



Pinnixa sayana, Stimpson. 



Pinnixa sayana, Stimpson, Annals N. Y. Lyceum, vii. p. 236. ^ 

 Fort Macon (Stimpson), 




324 PROOEEDINOS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1878. 



Pinniza cylindrica, Wliite. 



J'iano!liere» cylindricum. Say, 1. c. p. 4")2. Dckay, op. cit., p. 13. 



IHnnixd cylindrica, White, List Crustaccii in Hie IJritisli Museum, 1846, 

 J). 33. Ibid., Annals and Magazine of Natural History, 1H40, First 

 Series, xviii. p. 177. Stinii)son, Annals N. Y. Lyceum, vii. p. 230. 

 Smith, U. S. Fisli Commission, p. 546, pi. i. f. 1. 



Pin)i.i.r„i hri)if/ai(i, Stimpson, Annals N. Y. Lye, vii. p. OS. 



Loii<^ Island Sound to South Carolina. 

 Finniza chsetopterana, Stimpson. 



Pinnixd cylindrica, Stimpson, Annals N. Y. Lj'cenm, vii. p. 08 (non 



White). 

 Pinnixa chmtopterann, Stimpson, 1. c, vii. p. 235. 



Charleston, S. C. (Stimpson). A single male occurred in the 

 collections made by Dr. Packard at Fort Macon. 



LEUCOSOIDEA. 



Calappidae. 

 Calappa marmorata, Fabr. 



Cancer marmoratun, Fabr. ; Ent. Syst., ii. p. 450. 



Cancer flammeus, Herbst, op. cit., ii. p. 161, pi. xi. f. 2. 



Calappa marmorata, Fabr., Sup. Ent. Syst., p. 346. Edw., Hist. Nat. 



Crust., ii. p. 104. Gibbes, 1. c, p. 183. Stm., Ann. Lye, vii. p. 71. 



Ibid., Am. Journ. Sci. and Arts, II. xxix. p. 444. Ibid., Bulletin 



Mus. Comp. Zool., ii. p. 153. 



Fort Macon (Stimpson) to the West Indies. 



Matutidae. 



Hepatus decorus, (ribbes. 



Cancer decorus, Herbst., Naturgeschichte der Kraben uud Krebse, ii. 



p. 154, pi. xxxvii. f. 6. 

 Hepatus decorus, Gibbes, Proc. Ann. Assoc Adv. Sci., iii. p. 183. 



Stimpson, Annals N. Y. Lyceum, vii. p. 70. Cones, 1. c. p. 124. 

 Ilepidus vanbenedeni, Herklots' Notice Carcinologique, 1852, p. i. pi. 



i. f. 1. 



There are two dry specimens of this species in the museum of 

 the Peabod^' Academy' of Science, from Fort Macon, pres^ented 

 by Dr. Coues. The range of the species is from North Carolina 

 to Texas. 



Leucosidae. 

 Persephone punctata, Stimpson. 



Cancer punctatus, Browne, Natural History of Jamaica, pi. xlii. f. 3. 

 Persephona Latreillii, Leach, Zoological Miscellany, iii. p. 22 (teste 

 Bellj. 




1878.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 325 



Persephona Lamarckii, Leach, Zool. ^Misc, iii. p. 23 (teste Bell). 

 Guaia punctata, Edw., Hist. Nat. des Crust., ii. p. 137. Gibbes, Proc. 



Ann. Assoc, iii. p. 185. 

 Persephone guaia, Bell, Transactions Linnean Society, London, xxi. p. 



293. Ibid., Catalogue Crustacea in British ]\Iuseum, pt. i. Leuco- 



siadae, 1855, p. 10. 

 PersepJione punctata^ Stimpsou, Annals N. Y. Lyceum, vii., p. 70. 



Coues, 1. c, p. 123. 



Fort Macon, N. C. (Coues), to Florida and the West Indies. 



Lithadia cariosa, Stim. 



Litliadia cariosa, Stimpson, Ann. N. Y. Lye. vii. p. 238. 

 Fort Macon (Stimpson). 



RANINOIDEA. 



Raninidae. 

 Ranilia muricata, Edw. 



Banilia muricata, H. Milne Edwards, Hist. Nat. des Crustaces, ii. p. 

 195. Gibbes, Proc. Am. Assoc. Adv. Sci., iii. p. 187. Ibid., Pro- 

 ceedings of the Elliot Society of Charlestown, S. C.,i. p. 235, pi. xiii. 

 (1857). 



North Carolina to Florida. 



PORCELLANOIDEA. 

 Porcellanidae. 

 Porcellana ocellata, Gibbes. 



Porcellana ocellata, Gibbes, Proc. Am. Assoc, iii. p. 190. Ibid., Proc. 

 Elliot Soc, i. p. 12, pi. i. f. 2. Stm., Proc. Phlla. Acad., 1858, p. 

 229. Ibid., Ann. Lye, vii. p. 77. Ibid., Am. Journ., II. xxix. p. 444. 



Fort Macon (Stimpson) to the West Indies. 



Porcellana sociata, Say. 



Porcellana sociata. Say, 1. c, i. p. 456. Edw., Hist. Nat. Crust., ii. p. 

 358. Gibbes, Proc. Am. Assoc, iii. p. 190. Ibid., Proc. Elliot Soc, 

 i. p. 12, pi. i. f. 6. Stimpson, Proc Phila. Acad., 1858, p. 339. Ibid., 

 Am. Jouin. II. xxix. p. 444. 



Pisidia sociata. Leach, Desmarest. 



Fort Macon (Stimpson) to Florida. 



In Say's description the specific name of this species was spelled 

 soriata, prohablj a typographical error. 



Euoeramus preelongus, Stm. 



Euceramus prmlongus, Stm., Am. Journ. Sci. and Arts, II. xxixj'p. 445, 

 Fort Macon (Stimpson). 




326 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1818. 



HIPPOIDEA. 



Hippidee. 

 Hippa talpoida, Say. 



lUlipii tiilpi/idd, Siiy, 1. c, i. p. 100. Stimpson, Proc. Acad. Nat, 

 Sciences, Philiulclphia, 18o8, p. 230. Cones, 1. c, p. 124. Smith, U. 

 S. Fish Commission, p. 548, pi. ii. f. 5. Ibid., Tracs. Conn. Acad., 

 iii. pp. 311-342, pis. xlv.-xlviii. (Development). 



Cape Cod lo Florida; Fort Macon (Coue.s, Packard). 



Albunidae. 



Lepidops scutellata, Stm. 



Albunea scutellata, Desmarest, Consid. Crust., p. 173. Edw., Hist. 



Nat. Crust., ii. p. 204, pi. xxi. f. 9-13. Gilibes, Proc. Am. Assoc, 



iii. p. 187. 

 Lepidops scutellata^ Stm., Proc. Phila. Acad., 18.58, p. 2.'50. Ibid., Am. 



Journ., II. xxix. p. 444. Ibid., Ann. Ljc, vii. p. 79. 



Fort Macon (Stimpson) to the West Indies. 



PAGUROIDEA. 



Faguridse. 

 Clibanarius vittatus, Stimpson. 



Pagurus vittatus, Bosc, Histoire Naturelle des Crustaces, ii. p. 8, pi. xii. 

 Edwards, Hist. Nat. des Crust., ii. p. 237. Gibbes, Proc. Am. As- 

 soc, iii. p. 189. 

 Clibanarius vittatus, Stimpson, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., Philadelphia, 

 1858, p. 235. Smith, Trans. Conn. Acad., ii. p. 18. 



Fort Macon (Packard) to Florida, the West Indies, and Brazil. 

 Eupagurus longicarpus, Stimpson. 



Fagurus longicarpus. Say, 1. c, i. p. 163. Gould, op. cit., p. 330. 



Dekay, op. cit., p. 20, pi. viii. f. 22. 

 Eupagurus longicarpus, Stimpson, Proc Acad. Nat. Sci., Philadelphia, 



1858, p. 237. Smith, Rep. U. S. Fish Comm., p. 549. 

 Eupagurus longipes, Coues, 1. c, p. 124. 



Salem, Mass. (Kingsley),to South Carolina; Fort Macon (Pack- 

 ard). 

 Eupagurus annulipes, Stimpson. 



Eupagurus annulipes, Stimpson, Annals N. Y. Lye, vii. p. 243. 

 Fort Macon (Stimpson). 

 Eupagurus pollicaris, Stimpson. 



Pagurus pollicaris. Say, 1. c, i. p. 162. Edwards, Hist. Nat. des Crust., 

 ii. p. 237. Gould, op. cit., p. 329. Dekay, op. cit., p. 19, pi. viii. 

 f. 21. 




18T8.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 327 



Eupagitrus poK/car^'s, Stimpson, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., Philadelphia, 

 1858, p. 237. Ihld., Annals N. Y. Lyceum, vii. p. 92. Cones, 1. c, 

 p. 124. Smith, Fish Commission, p. 548. 



Massachusetts to Florida ; Fort Macon (Coues, Packard). 



THALASSINOIDEA. 



Gebidae. 

 Gebia affinis, Say. 



Gebia affinis, Say, 1. c, i. p. 241. Dekay, op. cit., p. 22. Gibbes, 

 1. c, iii. p. 195. Smith, Fish Comm., p. 549, pi. ii. f. 7. 



Long Island Sound to Florida. 



Callianassidde. 

 Callianassa stimpsoni, Smith. 



C<(lli((nassa s(impso?ii, Smith, Report U. S. Fish Commission for 1871- 

 72, p. 549, pi. ii. f. 8. 



Long Island Sound, southward. 

 Callichirus major, Stm. 



Callianassa major. Say, 1. c, i. p. 238. Edw., Hist. Nat. Crust., ii. p. 

 310. Dekay, op. cit., p, 22. Gibbes, Proc. Am. Assoc, iii. p. 194, 

 Stimpson, Am. Journ., ii. xxix. p. 444. 

 Callichirus viajor, Stm., Ann. Lye, x. p. 122. 



Fort Macon (Stimpson) to Florida. 



ASTACOIDEA. 



Astacidse. 

 Homarus americanus, Edw. 



Astacus marinus, Say, 1. c, i. p. 165 (non Fabr.). 



Homarus americanus, M. Edw., Hist. Nat. des Crust., ii. p. 234. 

 Gould, op. cit., p. 330. Dekay, op. cit., p. 23, pi. xii. Gibbes, 1. c, 

 p. 195. Coues, 1. c, p. 124. Smith, Trans. Conn. Acad., ii. pp. 

 251-381, 5 plates (Development). Ibid., Fish Comm., p. 549, pi, 

 ix. f. 38-39. Wheildon, Proceedings American Association, xxiii. p. 

 133, 1874. Kingsley, American Naturalist, 1876, x. p. 396, pis. v., vi. 



New Jersey to Labrador (Smith). Dr. Coues reports a single 

 specimen from Fort Macon. 



CARIDEA, 



Crangonidae. 



Crangon vulgaris, Fabricius. 



Cancer crangon, Linne, Syst. Nat., 12th Edit., p, 1053. 



Astacus crangon, Herbst., Naturgeschichte der Krabben und ICrebse, 



ii. p. 57, pi. xxix. f. 3 and 4. Olivier, Encyclopedic Mcthodique, t, 



vi. p. 348, pi. ccxciv. f. 4-7, 




328 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACAnEMY OF [1878. 



Crangon vulgaris, Fabricius, Siippl. Ent Syst., p. 410. Latreillo, Hist. 

 Nat. dcs Criistaces, vi. p. 2G7, pi. iv. f. 1-2. Lamarck, Aiiim. sans 

 Vertcbrcs, v. p. 202. Leach, Malacostmca Podophth. Britlaniip, 

 ]il. xxxvi. f. B. Desmaicst, Consicl. siir Ics Crustaccs, p. 218, pi. 

 xxxviii. f. 1. Edwards, Hist. Nat. dos Crustaccs, ii. p. 341. Gould, 

 Invert. Mass., p. 331. Kroycr, Naturliistf)risk Tidsckrit't, 1H42-3, 

 p. 23y, pi. iv. f. 29-33. Brandt in MiddendorfF, Bd. ii. tli. i. p. 113. 

 Gibbes, 1. c, iii. p. 195. Bell, British Stalk-eyed Crustacea, 18o3, 

 p. 256. Stimpson, Invertebrata of Grand Menan, p. 58. Sars, Vi- 

 dcnskabs Selskabet, i Christiania, 1861, p. 179. Kinahan, Proc. 

 Royal Irish Academy, 1862, vii. p. 68 and 71, pi. iv. (poor figures). 

 Heller, Crustaccen des Sudlichen Europa, 1863, p. 226, pi. vii. f. 8- 

 9. Smith, Fish Comm., p. 551, pi. iii. f. 10. Meinert, Naturliisto- 

 risk Tidsskrift, 1877, III. xi. p. 198. Kingsley, Proc. Acad. Nat. 

 Sci., Philadelphia, 1878, p. 89. Ibid., Bulletin Essex Inst., 1878, x. 

 p. 53. 



Crangon septemspinosus, Say, 1. c, p. 246. Dekay, op. cit., p. 25, pi. 

 viii. f. 24. 



Mediterranean, France, England, Norway, Labrador, south to 

 Fort Macon (Packard). 

 Tozeuma carolinensis, Kingsley. 



Tozeuma carolinensis, Kingsley, Proc. Acad Nat. Sci., Philadelphia, 

 1878, p. 90; ibid.. Bulletin Essex Inst., x. p. 56. 



This species was found to be quite common in tlie eel grass 

 near Fort Macon, by Dr. Packard. It is readily recognized by 

 its slender elongate form and its long straight rostrum. 



Palaemonidse. 



Alpheus minus, Say. 



AJpheus minus. Say, 1. c, i. p. 245. Edwards, Hist. Nat. des Crust., 

 ii. p. 356. Kingsley, Bulletin U. S. Geological and Geographical 

 Survey of the Territories, 1878, iv. p. 190 ; ibid.. Bulletin Essex 

 lust. X. p. 57. Lockington, Annals and 3Iagaziue of Natural His- 

 tory, 1878. 

 Alpheus formosus, Gibbes, 1. c, p. 196. 

 When working at my Synopsis of the Xortli American Alpliei 

 I found specimens in the Museum of Yale College, collected by 

 Dr. H. C. Yarrow, at Fort Macon. This is its farthest north. I 

 have also examined specimens from Florida, Bermudas, West 

 Indies, and the Bay of Panama. This species can readily be 

 separated from any other Caridean likely to be found at Fort 

 Macon, by the three spined front and the great disproporliou in 

 the anterior pairs of chelipeds. 




1878.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 329 



In the Annual Report of the U. S. Geological and Geograpliical 

 Surveys of the Territories for 1874, p. 388, Mr. Ernest Ingersoll 

 saj's, " From the pond mentioned, between cam[)s E. & F. [in 

 southwestern Colorado], a small crab was brouglit home, which 

 Prof. S. I. Smith pronounced to be a true marine form, belonging 

 to the Asfacidoas (sic).'' Prof, Smith informs nie that the speci- 

 men shown to him was undoubtedly Alpheus minus, and thought 

 it more than probable that some confusion of localities or mixture 

 of specimens had occurred, but, on the other hand, Mr. Ingersoll 

 is as positive as it is possible to be that the specimen was found 

 in the pond mentioned. 



Alpheus heterochelis, Say. 



Alpheus heierochelis, Say, 1. c, i. p. 243. Edwards, op. cit., ii. p. 356. 



Dekaj', op. cit., p. 26. Gibbcs, 1. c.,p. 196. Smith, Traus. Comm. 



Acad., ii. p. 23 ftnd 39. Kingsley, Bulletin U. S. G. and G. Survey, iv. 



p. 194 ; ibid., Bulletin Essex Inst., x. p. 58. Lockiugton, Annals 



and Mag. Xat. Hist., 1878. 

 Alpheus armillatus, Edw., op. cit., ii. p. 354. 

 Halopsyche lutaria, Saussure, Revue Zoologique, 1857, p. 100 (teste 



Saussure). 

 Alpheus lutarius, Saussure, Crustacesnouv. Antilles, Mexique et Etats 



Unis, p. 45, pi. iii. p. 24. E. von Marten, Archiv fiir Naturgescliichte, 



1872, p. 139. 

 Alpheus equidactylus, Lockington, Proc. California Academy, vii. p. 



35, 1877. (Extras published in 1876.) 



I have examined specimens from Fort Macon (Dr. H. C. Yar- 

 row), Florida, Bahamas, Bermudas, Brazil, Aspinwall, Panama, 

 and the West Coast of Nicaragua. Mr. Lockington informs me 

 that his A. equidactylus, from Monterey, Cal., presents no appre- 

 ciable differences from specimens of A. heterochelis, from Florida, 

 that I sent him. This species is readily recognized by its front 

 with a single spine, its enormous hand, and is larger than the pre- 

 ceding species. 



Stimpson in his " Trip to Beaufort, N, C," American Journal 

 Sciences and Arts, 2d series, vol, xxix, p, 444, mentions a species 

 of Alpheus under the name A. intermedius. What he refers to is 

 unknown. 



Virbius pleuracanthus, Stimpson. 



Virbius pleuracanthus, Stimpson, Annals N. Y. Lyceum, 1871, x. f. 

 127. Smith, Fish Comm. p. 550. Kingsley, Bulletin Essex Ittst. x. 

 p. 63. 



New Jersey to Fort Macon (Dr, Packard). 

 22 




330 PaOOEEDlNOS OF THE ACA1»K.MY OF [1S78. 



Urocaris longicaudata, Stimpson. 



Vrociiri* lonyiraKdntti, Stimpson, Prnc. Acad. Nat. Sci., rhiladclphia, 

 18G0, p. 39. Kingsley Bulk-tin Essex Inst., x. p. 05. 



'' In lilloriijus Carolincnsibus habittins" (Slimi)son). 



Palaemonetes vulgaris, Stimpson. 



J'aUvinon culf/uris, Say, 1. c, i. p. 348. Edw., Hist. Nat. dcs Crust., ii. 



p. 394. Gould, op. cit., p. 333; Dekay, op. cit., p. 29, pi. i.x. f. 30. 



Gibbes, 1. c, p. 198. Coues, 1. c, p. 134. 

 Palwrnonetes vulf/aris, Stimpson, Annals N, Y. Lyceum, x. p. 129. 



Smith, Fish Comm. p. 550, pi. ii. f. 9. Kingsley, Bulletin Essex 



Inst., X. p. 05. 



Salera, Muss. (C. Cooke), to Florida. Fort Macon (Dr. Pack- 

 ard). 



Palaemonetes carolinus, Stimpson. 



PalcBmonetea carolinus, Stimpson, Annals N. Y. liyceum, x. p. 139. 

 Kingsley, Bull. Essex Inst. x. j). 05. 



New Jersej' to South Carolina; Fort Macon (Dr. Packard). 



Peneidae. 



Peneus setiferus, Edw. 



Cancer setiferus, Linue (teste Edw.). 



Peneus fluvialis, Say, 1. c, i. p. 330. 



Peneus setiferus, Edw., op. cit., ii. p. 414. Dekay op. cit., i. p. 230. 



Gibbes, 1. c, iii. p. 199. Smith, Trans. Conn. Acad., ii. p. 40. 



Stimpson, Annals Lyceum, x. p. 183. Kingsley, Bull. Essex lust., 



X. p. 09. 



Virginia to Texas and Jjrazil. 



Peneus braziliensis, Latreille. 



Peneus brazilienns, Latreille Nouvelle Dictiouaire d'Histoire Naturelle, 

 tome, XXV. p. 154. Edwards, op. cit., ii. p. 414. White, List Crust, 

 iu Brit. Museum, p. 80. Gibbes, 1. c, p. 198. Smith, Trans. Conn. 

 Acad., ii. p. 37; ibid.. Fish Coram., p. 551. Stimpson, Annals N. 

 Y. Lyceum, x. p. 133. Coues, 1. c, p. 134. Von Martens, 1. c, 

 1872, vol. xxxviii. p. 140. Kingsley, Bull. Essex Inst. x. p. 09. 



New York to Brazil ; Fort Macon (Coues). 

 Peneus constrictus, Stimpson. 



Peneus constrictus, Stimpson, Ann. jST. Y. Lj'c, x. p. 135. Kingsley, 

 Bulletin Essex Institute, x. p. 70. 



Fort Macon, N. C. (Stimpson), to Charleston, S. C. 




1878.J NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 331 



September 3. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Twenty-one persons present. 



On the Black Mildew of Walls. — Prof. Leidy remarked that in 

 the nnmber of " Hardwicke's Science Gossip" for August, pre- 

 sented this evening, there is an article by Prof. Paley entitled " Is 

 the Blackness on St. Paul's merely the effect of Smoke." Accord- 

 ing to the author, the blackness is mainly due to the growth of a 

 hitherto undescribed lichen, which appears to flourish only on 

 limestone and in situations unaffected by the direct rays of the 

 sun. Prof. Leid}^ continued, that his attention had been called 

 a number of years ago to a similar black appearance on the brick 

 walls and granite work of houses in narrow shaded streets, espe- 

 ciall}^ in the vicinity of the Delaware River. Noticing a similar 

 blackness on the bricks above the windows of a brewery, from 

 which there was a constant escape of waterj' vapor, in a more 

 central portion of the city, he was led to suspect that it was of a 

 Aegetable nature. On examination, the black mildew proved to 

 be an alga, closely allied to what he supposed to be the Frotococ- 

 cus viridis, which gives the bright green color to the trunks of 

 trees, fences, and walls, mostly' on the more shaded and northern 

 side, everywhere in our vicinity. It probably may be the same 

 plant in a different state, but, until proved to be so, may be dis- 

 tinguished by the name of Frotococcus luguhrii<. It consists of 

 minute round or oval cells, from 0.006 to 0.009 mm. in diameter, 

 isolated or in pairs or in groups of four, the result of division ; 

 or it occurs in short irregular chains of four or more cells up to. 

 a dozen, occasionally' with a lateral offset of two or more cells. 

 The cells by transmitted light appear of a brownish or olive- 

 brovvuish hue. In mass to the naked ej'e the alga a[)pears as an 

 intensely black powder. 



September 10. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Nineteen persons present. 

 The death of Geo. Dawson Coleman, a member, was announced. 




PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1878. 



SErTEMBER 17. 



The I'rcsidcnt, Dr. Ruschenberoeu, in the chair. 



Twent3'-eight persons present. 



A paper entitled '• Description of a supposed New Species of 

 Smynthurus," by John A. Ryder, was presented for publication. 



Remarks on 3Iactra. — Prof. Leidy remarked that the most fre- 

 quent and conspicuous shell met with on the sandy coast of New 

 Jersc}^ was the Beach-clam, Maclra solidissima. The living mol- 

 lusk was thrown up in great numl>crs during severe storms; and 

 high above the position reached b^' ordinary' tides, its dead shells 

 are thickl}' strewn over the sands. Shells are often met with 

 having a smooth circular hole bored near the umbo, wliich ap- 

 peared to be due to Natica heros, for several years ago, at Atlantic 

 Cit}', on the beach, near low-tide mark. Prof. L. had dug out of 

 the sands many specimens of Natica, each of which embraced a 

 beach-clam. The tongue of the Natica, covered witli strong teeth, 

 and over an inch long, formed a rasp, well adapted for boring the 

 shell of its prey. Why the Natica always made choice of the 

 position near the umbo for boring through the sliell did not ap- 

 pear clear, though perhaps it might have something to do with 

 reaching the adductor muscles of the shell of the Mactra. These 

 are equidistant from the perforation, and, if torn tiirough by the 

 tongue of tlie Natica, would cause the shell of the Mactra to open, 

 and thus render all the soft parts more accessible. 



The Mactra lives in the sands of tlie coast, and appears to feed 

 chiefly on diatoms and perhaps infusorians. Prof. L. had been 

 surprised at the number of different genera and species of dia- 

 toms found in the contents of the intestines of the j\Iactra, though 

 from an observation recently made, these delicately constructed 

 plants would appear to thrive even on shore exposed to the dis- 

 turbance of the ocean waves. Near the inlet, at xVtlantic City, 

 the beach betAveen tides was noticed in many places to be covered 

 with streaks and patches of a yellowish-green hue, and of extreme 

 thinness. Some of this colored matter with sand was scraped up 

 and put into a bottle and taken home for examination. After a 

 lew hours' rest, the green matter, diffused through the sanfl and 

 water in the bottle, formed a thin layer on the sand. Under the 

 microscope the green matter proved to be composed of a single 

 diatom, the Am])hiprora conatricta. It was in a remarkable state 

 of activity, and Prof. L. added, he thought he had never beheld 

 an}' other diatom so much so as this one. Its power of movement 

 and its broad keels were conditions which wonderfully favored its 




1878.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 333 



ability to extricate itself from the sand to occupy a position on 

 the surface. 



Diatoms, from their constitution, are admiraMy adapted as food 

 for the beach-clam, oyster, and other lamellibranch moUusks. 

 Tlie}' are crj'stal cases containing besides the endochrome, a 

 quantity of colorless protoplasm, and considerable drops of oil. 

 They might be likened to boat loads of corn, meat, and oil. In 

 the materials of the commencement of the intestine of clams and 

 oysters, Prof. L. had observed the diatoms with the contents in 

 various conditions of change due to digestion ; and in the mate- 

 rials of the rectum, the diatoms were empty or had been deprived 

 of theii contents. 



In several beach-clams examined, among the matter of the in- 

 testine, Prof. L. had observed what he at first supposed to be the 

 shell of a difflugian, but which he since suspected to be that of a 

 ciliated infusorian, Tintinnuii. Inform and construction tlie shell 

 resembles that of T. annulatun (Fig. 2, pi. 9, vol. i., Etudes sur les 

 Infusoires, etc., Claparede and Lachmann). Its length was 0.78 

 to 0.12 mm., the breadth 0.024 to 0.036 mm. 



The Amphiprora conxtricta above referred to was from 0.078 to 

 0.09 mm. long, 0.024 broad, and 0.012 mm. thick. 



Irrilahle or Sensitive Stamens. — Mi\ Thomas Meetian remarked 

 on the large list of plants now known that exhibited an irritative 

 motion in some of their parts. A few years ago there were few 

 in the list besides the Sensitive plant and the Venus fl3'-trap ; 

 now there were many scores of similar cases known, though chiefly 

 as regai'ds the stamens or portions of the pistils. He had already 

 placed on record a large number of instances in plants of the or- 

 ders Bignoniaceae, ScropJiulariacese, and Acanthaceae^ and he had 

 found so many cases that he thought wherever there were bilobed 

 flattened stigmas in -these orders, we might expect to find this 

 sensitiveness to touch exhibited in a greater or less degree. In 

 regard to stamens, it was well known that in Opiintia^ a famil}' of 

 Gactaceae, the stamens moved in various directions when touched, 

 and it was ver}' remarkable that no such motion had been observed 

 in Cereus, Mammillaria. and other allied genera of the order. 

 Having noted a similar motion in the stamens of the common 

 garden Porlulaca grandiHora, he w^as led to look for and to find a 

 similar motion in the Purslane, Portulaca oleracea. Examining 

 another Portulacaceous plant, Talinum teretifolium^ last year, he 

 could find no trace of motion, but when on his recent jouiney 

 south, he found growing in the Botanic Garden of Mr. Henry 

 Shaw, of St. Louis, a West Indian species, Talinum patens, in 

 whicli the expanded stamens fell down on the petals when touched. 

 It was remarkable that this power should exist in T. patens and 

 not in T. teretifolinm, though some approach to this excepfeional 

 character was already noted in the genera, though not among the 

 species of Gactacese. 




334 PROCEEDINGS CtF THE ACADKMY OF [ISVS. 



Tlic olijects of these movements ma^- yet form an interestin}; 

 study. In Dionnn, />?-o.sf?/Y/, an<l some others, the motion liad 

 been loiuid to icsull in some immediate benefit to the phint ; in 

 Mimoxa^ J/i'di/sarioit^ and others, no such immediate benefit had 

 lieen sugg-ested. In the ease of sensitive stigmas it had been 

 supposed to have some refureni-e to arrangen)cnts for eross-ffrtili- 

 zatioM. But this was doul)t('ul for the folhnving reasons: In the 

 ease of 3Iinn(li(.< i-iiKjois tlie stigmas ex|)anded, and tlie antliers 

 (bspersed tiieir jjolleu l)efoie tlie corolla was (juite oi)en, and pollen 

 migiit be generally found on the stigmatic surfaces when the 

 mouth exjjosed these parts to view. In Tfcoma i-adinans, on the 

 other hand, the lobes of the pistil did not expand till some time 

 after the mouth of the corolla was open. In many cases pollen- 

 hunting bees had carried away all the pollen before these lobes 

 expanded. In cases where the expanded lobes and dispersing 

 polkn were simultaneous, it was theoretically supposed that a bee 

 or insect touched the lobes with its ])olleu-covered head or back, 

 and that the lobes then closed against the admission of pollen on 

 the withdrawal of the insect from the flower. IJut he had found 

 tliat the bees in the cases observed by him occupied but from three 

 to five seconds in visiting a flower, while it took from thirty to 

 sixty seconds for the lobes to close, and then they were seldom 

 so completely closed as to render the reception of fresh pollen 

 diflicult. lie thought from these and other facts tiiat the h.ypo- 

 tliesis in relation to cross fertilization was untenable, and tliat the 

 real use of this motion in the economy of nature was an o[jeu and 

 j-et promising field to the future investigat(;r. 



September 24. 



The President. Dr. RuscHENBERGER,'in the chair. 



Twcnt3'-seven persons present. 



Henry C. Wood. M.D., Francis X. Dercum, M.l)., Henry A. 

 Green, and E. Gybbon Si)ilsbury were elected members. 

 The following was ordered to be i)ubli.shed: — 




1878.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



335 



DESCRIPTION OF A NEW SPECIES OF SMYNTHURUS. 

 BY J NO. A. RYDER. 

 Smynthurus qnadrimaculata, Nob. 



Park brown, nearl}^ black on the sides ; median dorsal and ven- 

 tral surfaces ligliter; spring and middle of legs still more pale. 



Its distinguishing character consists in the two pure white spots, 

 low down on each side of the abdomen, the posterior ones larger 



than the anterior by one-third to one- 

 half, are arranged, when the back of 

 the animal is vieweil from al)ove, in an 

 equilateral quadrangle. The surround- 

 ing dark color immediately bordering 

 the white spots is intense, but becomes 

 paler more remote from them in all 

 directions, and especially on the middle 

 of the i)ack. Antennoe four-jointed, 

 smynthuriform, resembling those of S. 

 Bourlefii, Gerv. 



Length from front of head to tip of 

 abdomen .5 mm.; vertical diameter of 

 abdomen .3 mm.; width of abdomen .23 mm. 



This remarkabl}' beautiful little Collembolan was found in com- 

 pany with a large species of Fapirius^ apparently near P. ornafus, 

 Nicolet, feeding on a polyporous fungus which grew on a stump in 

 a damp, shad}^ ravine in East Fairmount Park. It is one of the 

 smallest of our American species of Sinijnfhuridae, and is totall}' 

 distinct from any described by Sa3', Harris, or Fitch, some of 

 which are no doubt Papiriidse. It may be one of the species 

 which the latter entomologist mentions as being known to him, 

 but to which he did not give names. The descriptions of both 

 Hai'ris and Fitch, in the al)sence of good figures, are vague and 

 unsatisfactory. 



The species I have no doubt will prove to be one new to science. 

 In form it greatly resembles the S. Bourletii, but in marking and 

 color it is so totall}' distinct that it would be immediately recog- 

 nized as different. 




330 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1878. 



OCTOllER 1. 



The I'residcnt, Dr. RusciiENBERaEK, in the chair. 

 Thii-t3--iiiiic persons present, 

 'i'lie deatli of Tlionias Potter, Sr., a nienil>er, was announced. 



Foraminiferouii Shells of our Const. — Prof. Leidy remarked 

 that the vast numbers of Foraminiferous shells. Avhicii formed a 

 constituent of the sea-side sands, had been a sul)ject of frequent 

 notice. Feeling interested to know their proportionate quantity 

 on the comparatively barren shore of Xew Jersey, he had ex- 

 amined the sand at Atlantic Cit^', and at Cape iMay. The sand 

 in these localities mainly consists of quartz, with Ijlack grains, 

 often in considerable quantity-, and formerly largely collected for 

 " writing sand," which he supposed to consist of ilraenite and 

 magnetite. Among these were also brilliant red particles, which 

 he sui)posed to be garnet. All these materials are the com|)ara- 

 tively insoluble residue of our inland gneissic, and other rocks. 



In sand scraped uj) from the surface between the tides at At- 

 lantic City, he had found the Foraminiferous shells, all of one 

 species of Nonionina, resembling that figured b}- Khrenberg as 

 N. polyjyora. They w'ere found in the proportion of aliont ID, 000 

 to the ounce avoirdupois of sand. In sand, obtained in the same 

 manner at Cape May, there were about 88,000 shells, of the single 

 species just named, to the ounce avoirdupois of sand. 



The sands on the rocky Xew England coast are much richer in 

 Foraminiferous shells, both in numbers and kinds, l)nt they are 

 generall}' smaller. In sand from the bathing beach at Newport, 

 R. I., collected from the white lines left by the edge of the waves, 

 there were 280,000 shells to the ounce of sand. 



October 8. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Fifty persons present. 



On Crustaceans at Cape May^ N. J. — Prof. Leidy remarked 

 that, in a recent visit to Cape May, X. J., he had been struck with 

 the immense numbers of the Mole Crab, Hippa talpoidea^ which 

 inhabited tlie beach between tides. They were especially alnin- 

 dant above the village of Ocean Grove, but were also numerous 

 l)elow this ])oint, down as far as the light-house. They were 

 generally 3-oung, and not larger than the little finger nail. A few 




187S.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 33T 



oiil}' were of mature size. In many positions they were so nume- 

 i-oiis, that they appeared like rolling j^ebbles, as they were exposed 

 b}'^ the breaking of the surf on the shore, and as they rapidly fol- 

 lowed the receding waves, and buried themselves in the sand. 

 The sand, on being dug up, was found lo be as full of them as an 

 ordinary i)lum-puddiiig is of currants. 



Below Ocean Grove, near low-tide mark, the Lady Crab, Pla- 

 tyoniaJnis occellatuH^ was frequent. Above Ocean Grove, and 

 above the high-tide line, in the dry sand, and in the bank covered 

 witli Sea-sand Grass, Calaiyiagrostis arenaria, the burrows of the 

 Sand Crab, Ocypoda arenaria^ were numerous, and the animals 

 frequent. One of these crabs, brought home after eight days, 

 was still in good condition Avithout once having been in water. 

 It appeared to be fond of meat of any kind, and had been fed on 

 beef and oysters. 



Supplementary Note on the Aeronautic Flight of Spiders. — Kev. 

 H. C. McCooK remarked that, in the Proceedings of the Academy 

 for 187Y, pp. 308-312, would be found the result of some observa- 

 tions made by liim upon the ballooning habits of spiders, wliich 

 he was now able to supplement by several important items. The 

 facts which he had to detail were observed Oct. 1, 1878, upon the 

 farm of Mr. Geo. B. Lownes, about ten miles from Philadelphia, 

 in Delaware County; and they would best be presented by giving 

 the record made in his note-book of the flight of several spiders. 

 The day was warm and bright, and a gentle breeze was blowing 

 throughout the da}^ but not stcadil}' from an}- quarter. 



No. 1. A 3'onng Lycosid, apparently Lycosa scutulata, Hentz. 

 On the side of a fence-post opposite to the wind, face downward, 

 abdomen elevated, the body raised l)}'^ the legs. Followed it after 

 flight for 200 feet ; it rose as high as 30 feet before it was lost 

 sight of. Its flight was across a wide meadow, and promised to 

 be a long one. Several threads were streaming out and up behind 

 and before the spider. 



No. 2. A saltigrade, probably the young of Hentz's Attus vit- 

 latus, on the side of a fence-board opposite the wind. Its legs 

 elevated, raising u[) the body, aljdomen turned well nigh straight 

 upward, long thread floating out and up from the spinnerets ; it 

 walked several inches upward along the rail, keeping its body in 

 the same stilted position, the thread meanwhile flying, and then 

 was off, rather slowly, and aliont on a line with the face. There 

 was one small thread in front and one (or more) behind. It 

 moved straight forward for about 50 feet, and then rose suddenly 

 upward. 



No. 3. Lycosa, observed at 2 P. M. Actions as No. 1. Dis- 

 tinctly saw one thread before and apparently two behind ; the 

 head was toward the wind. After 15 feet it rose up and out of 

 sight, a long stretch of meadow before it. Once before it mounted 

 it lifted up one hind foot as though holding on to the sta^' thread. 




338 T'ltdCKKKINMih; UK THK ACADEMY OF [1878. 



No. 4. L}/coi<a. Followed for 40 to 50 feci; one tliiead nitpa- 

 rcutly ; in front a my of several fine divergiii*^ tiireads (loaling 

 behind from the spinnerets. Its Itack was toward the ground. 

 Jts abdomen seemed, Imt could not be certainly determined, to be 

 ridini^.in front. The body of the spider was thus at the apex of 

 the an<>l<' formed li}- the fore and hind threads, the free points of 

 which were quite far apart. The balloon struck a tree, and part 

 of it went on, the spider ai)parentl\' sta^'iny' on the tree. 



No. 5. Li/co.-<a. The abdomen Ijehind, i.c, toward the point of 

 departure. Several threads floatinti; fi'om it, one in front; feet 

 gathered together, but, ap}»arently, the back upward. It crossed 

 the highway, and a carriage just then passing interfered with the 

 observation. 



No. 0. The head riding in front, back down — this is abso- 

 lutely certain. A four-shaped steamer of threads thrown out 

 before mounting. At first it moved off slowlv, soon climlied up 

 the fore thread, the " bow," so to speak; further on it climbed up 

 the pencil of rays for several inches. The balloon, when lost 

 sight of, had at least three sei)arate i)encil ra3's visiltle. It was 

 followed lUO feet before it rose out of sight. 



No. 7. Lycosa. Back down ; sailed sidcwise part of the time ; 

 head forward apparently afterward. 



^lauy of the aeronauts noticed first turned the elevated abdomen 

 to various points, as though testing the direction of the wind. 



^lost of the points noted in tlie previous communication were 

 conlirmed, and those, together with these now presented, seem to 

 make quite complete the mode of ballooning, at least among the 

 Citigrade, and perhaps also the Saltigrade Spiders. The whole 

 process maybe briefl3' given as follow-s: 1. The spider seeks a 

 high position, as tiie top of a fence post, as the point of ascent; 

 2. The abdomen is elevated to as nearly a right angle with the 

 cei)halothorax as may be; 3. A ])eucil of llireads is issued from 

 the spinnerets, the face l)eing meaiuvhile turned to various points 

 until it looks in the direction of the wind ; 4. The legs are 

 stretched upward, thus raising the body aloft; 5. They gradually 

 incline in the direction of the breeze, the joints straighten out, 

 the legs sink forward and down till the first pair are almost on 

 the level with the post, the whole attitude of the animal i)eing 

 that of one resisting some force exerteil from above ; 0. Suddenly 

 and simultaneously the eight claws are unloosed, and the spider 

 mounts with a sharp bound, apparently ; 7. and floats off with 

 • the back downward generally, but sometimes with this position 

 reversed ; 8. At first the abdomen seems to be in advance, but 

 generall}' the body is turned so that the head rides in front; 9. 

 The pencil of threads is caught apparently by the feet, and floats 

 out in front, upon which, 10, sometimes the spider will dim!) up- 

 ward, as thougli to adjust the centre of gravity; 11. Meanwhile 

 a thread or pencil of rays issues from the spinnerets which floats 




1818.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. .339 



out behind, leaving the spider to ride in the angle of the two pen- 

 cil, or 12, as it sometimes liappens, of tliree, whicli diverge widely 

 at the upper free ends ; 13. The feet seem to be united by deli- 

 cate filaments, which would serve to increase the buo^'ancy of the 

 balloon; 14. The spider now is carried forward l)y the wind, 

 riding for long distances in an open space, and often borne high 

 upwaid upon ascending currents; 15. Its anchorage appears at 

 times to be in its own volition, by drawing in witli the claws the 

 forward pencil and gathering it in a white roll within the mandi- 

 bles ; but, 16, most frequently the balloonist is stopped by strik- 

 ing against some elevated object or by the subsidence of the 

 breeze; 17. A bright, warm daj- in October is commonl}- chosen 

 for the ascent; and, 18, judging from the presence of a number 

 of dry moults upon many posts, apparenth' of the same species 

 of spider observed in flight, the animals had recentl_y cast their 

 skins. Of tlie aboA'e points, Nos. 3, 7, 0, 10, 11 in part, 12, 14 in 

 part, 15 in part, and 18 are those which were determined by the 

 last observation. 



Tiie object of this interesting habit seems to be the distribution 

 of species. 



Siiniaii Chm^acters in Negro Biriuis. — Dr. A.J. Parker re- 

 marked that in a previous communication on the convolutions of 

 the negro brain he had pointed out in one negro brain out of thir- 

 teen (then examined) the existence of an internal inferior pli de 

 passage, wliich was as well developed as in any of tlie Simiadfc. 

 In tliat brain the convolution measured a quarter of an inch in 

 width, and completely separated the parieto-occipital or internal 

 perpendicular fissure from the calcarine, so that this region pre- 

 sented tiie same appearance as it does in the Simians. This con- 

 volution is uniformly present in the brain of all the Simiadte thus 

 far described, except in Aleles paniscuK^ Huxle}', and Hylobates^ 

 Bischoff. It had not been found in a full}- developed condition in- 

 man before, and the absence of this small bridging convolution 

 had been regarded b}' some anatomists as a distinguishing pecu- 

 liarity of the human as compared vvith the anthropoid brain. Since 

 then he had found this convolution present in another adult female 

 negro brain. It was fully developed up to the surface, presented 

 a superficial width of an eighth of an inch, and completely sepa- 

 rated the parieto-occipital from the calcarine fissure. This con- 

 volution was, therefore, present in two cases out of thirty-three 

 negro brains examined. 



Turner describes (Edinburgh Medical Journal, 1860) a brain in 

 which the fissure of Rolando joined the fissure of Sylvius com- 

 pletel}', tlie small bridging convolution which usually' separates 

 them being completely absent. Pansch states that sometimes 

 there is a superficial connection between these two fissvrres. 

 Ecker says he has never met with such an instance. Dr. Parker 




340 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1878. 



had observed in one instance in the brain of an adult male negro 

 the complete connection of these two fissures, no trace of a bridg- 

 ing or separating convolution being present. 



October 15. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Fifty-four persons present. 

 The following papers were presented for publication: — 



" Descriptions of Ichneumonidfe chiefly from the Pacific Slope 

 of the United States and British North America." By E. T. 

 Cresson. 



" The Solar Corona." By Jacob Ennis. 



Notice of a Tetrarhynchus. — Prof. Leidy stated that in the 

 Remora. or Sucker, from our coast, i)reseiited this evening by Mr. 

 Holbrook, he had found a curious parasite. This was inclosed 

 in a compressed oval cyst, pearly white, thick-walled, and about 

 iialf an inch long, tightly adherent to the intestine of tlie fish. 

 The cyst contained a flask-shaped, translucent whitish sac, which 

 was feebly contractile, and furnished at the narrow end with two 

 minute papillae, which were slowly protruded and retracted. 

 "Within this sac-worm, coiled up about the centre, was an opaque 

 white worm or scolex, which proved to be a TetrarhynchuH. Re- 

 moved and extended it measured 7 lines long, and was divisible 

 about equally into a broad anterior body portion, and a posterior 

 narrow tail-like portion. The head was formed of a pair of obcor- 

 date l)othria inclined from each other. Four long tortuous pro- 

 boscides extended through the body and projected from the head. 

 The projecting portions were successively elongated and short- 

 ened b}' eversion and inversion, and were armed with recurved 

 hooks. The hooks extended within half the length of the probo- 

 scides, and as they were everted and inverted ap[)eared like the 

 streaming of liquid through narrow tubes. The tortuous probo- 

 scides at the bottom were continuous with as many elliptical 

 pedestals placed at the back part of the body. The tail, about 

 lialf the width of the body, was not segmented, but exhibited a 

 disposition to assume this condition. The end w^as slightl}' taper- 

 ing, and occupied b\' a bell-shaped sinus opening externally and 

 alternately contracting and expanding. The interior of the sinus 

 was lined, and its mouth thickly furnished with non-vibratile cilia. 

 The species appeared to be undescribed, and was named Tetrar- 

 hynchus tenuicaudatus. 




1878.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 341 



October 22. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Fifty-five persons present. 



October 29. 

 The President, Dr. Rlschenberger, in the chair. 

 One hundred and seven persons present. 



A paper entitled " On the Structure of the Gorilla," b}' H. C. 

 Chapman, M.D., was presented for publication. 



The death of Jonathan S. Helfenstein, a member, was an- 

 nounced. 



Dr. J. B. Brinton and Messrs. Wm. T. Haines, Edmurrd Lewis, 

 and Wm. Ayres were elected members. 



The following paper was ordered to be printed ; — 




!42 paocEEniN(JS of tiik acadk.mv of [1878. 



RECOVERY OF ALL THE FACULTIES IN A PIGEON FROM WHICH FOUR- 

 FIFTHS OF THE UPPER PORTION OF THE CEREBRUM HAD BEEN 

 REMOVED. 



By J. Jl. McQuiLLEN, M.l). 



Monday, Fcl)riKiiy 4th, 1878, in illustration of my lobular 

 course of lectuies on IMiysiology in tlie Pliila(lel|)liia Di-nLal Col- 

 lege, I exposed the ceiebiiiin of a pigeon, as I have regularh' 

 done each session for the past twenty years, and cut out four- 

 fifths of the upper portion in slices, to illustrate tiie fact that the 

 sensorium thus exposed could be cut, pinched, or burned witiiout 

 any manifestation of sutiering on the part of the animal. The 

 usual phenomena attendant upon the operation followed, i. e.^ 

 profound stujjor, the bird standing motionless on the table, with 

 eyes closed, the head sunk between. the shoulders, and the feathers 

 ruffled. When pushed it opened its eyes and move<l tiie bod}', 

 ■when thrown into the air it flew a few feet, and then on light- 

 ing relapsed into somnolency with an evident obliviousness to 

 surrounding objects until again aroused by handling. In this 

 condition, along with another pigeon from Avhich the cerebellum 

 had been removed, it was shown to the members of the IJiological 

 and Microscopical Section of the Academj- of Natural Sciences, 

 on the evening of that day at the regular monthly meeting of the 

 Section. Prof. Emily White, M.D., Professor of Physiology in the 

 Woman's Medical (.'oUege, who was present, having manifested 

 much interest in the i)igeons, I offered to send them to the Woman's 

 College so that she could show them to the students, with the 

 request that an effort should be made to keep them alive, and 

 ascertain whether the functions of tlie cerebrum and cerebellum 

 would bo restored. Other duties of an absorbing character so 

 occupied my time and attention that I had quite forgotten the 

 request made by me until March, when a note was received from 

 Prof. White stating that " the pigeon from which the cerebrum 

 was partially removed seems to have recovered all his faculties. 

 He is, perhaps, less excitable than normal, seems perfectly tame, 

 but briglit. . . . The other i)igeon died on the third da}' after the 

 removal of the cerebellum." 



I at once sent for the pigeon, and was surprised at the complete 

 recovery of the voluntary movements of walking and flying, the 




1878,] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 343 



power of feeding itself and drinking as usual, and the general 

 manifestation of intelligence. There could be no question about 

 the identity of the pigeon. It was of a peculiar breed, and the 

 cicatrix on the neck, where the incision had been made so as to- 

 throw the scalp back and expose the cranium, along with a soft 

 place dn the latter from which a portion of bone had been re- 

 moved, left no doubt on that point. I again exhibited it at the 

 monthly meeting of the Biological and Microscopical Section, 

 March 4th, and tlie meml)ers were surprised to find it fly about 

 from one end of a long room and back again, feed itself, etc. 



I asked then, and I repeat now the same question, How are we 

 to account for the restoration of these functions ? Is it due to 

 the fact that the small portion of the cerebrum left after the ope- 

 ration assumed the functions of the entire organ, or has there 

 besn a regeneration of the part removed ? Yulpian, one of the 

 most accurate and reliable of the recent experimentalists and 

 observers of these phenomena, positively asserts that an animal 

 from which the cerebral hemispheres have been removed, is inca- 

 pable of a spontaneous voluntary movement. In this he is appa- 

 rentl}^ supported by every observer, with only one exception ,Yoit. 



The latest author, in writing on tiiis sul>ject, M. Foster^ (whose 

 views may be regarded as summing those generally entertained), 

 saj's : When the cerebral hemispheres are removed from a bird 

 the animal is able to maintain a completely normal posture, and 

 that too when the corpus striata and optic thalami are taken 

 away at the same time. It will balance itself on one leg, after the 

 fashion of a bird which in a natural way has gone to sleep. In 

 fact the appearance and behavior of a bird which has been de- 

 prived of its cerebral hemispheres are strikingly similar to those 

 of a bird sleepy and stupid. Left alone in perfect quiet, it will 

 remain impassive and motionless for a long time, it may be for 

 an almost indefinite time. When stirred it moves, and then on 

 being left alone returns to a natural easy position. Placed on its 

 side or on its back it will regain its feet; thrown into the air it 

 flies with considerable precision for some distance l)efore it retui-ns 

 to rest. It frequently tucks its head under its wings, and if by 

 judicious feeding it has been kept alive for some time after the 

 operation, it may be seen to clean its feathers, and to pick up corn 



' A Text Book of Physiology, by M. Foster, M.A., M.D., F.R.S. London, 

 MacMillan & Co., 1878. 




344 PROCEEPINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1878. 



or drink water presented to its beak.' It may be induced to move 

 not only by ordinary stimuli applied to the skin, but also by sud- 

 den sharp sounds, or flashes of light; and it is evident that its 

 movements arc, to a certain extent, guided by visual sensations, 

 for in its flight it will, though imperfectly, avoid obstacles. Save 

 that all signs of volition are absent, that the movements are on 

 the whole clumsy, resembling rather those of a stupid, drowsy 

 bird than those of one quite wide awake, there is very little to 

 distinguish such a bird from one in full possession of its cerebral 

 hemispheres. 



There is but one other case on record that I have met with, 

 where there has been a recovery of voluntary action on the part 

 of a pigeon from which the cerebral hemispheres had been re- 

 moved, and I was not aware of that fact until the experience 

 with my pigeon induced me to make a careful examination of the 

 literature of the subject. I refer to the pigeon kept alive by Voit 

 for five months after the cerebral lobes had been completely re- 

 moved. " At first the pigeon presented the phenomena usuali}^ 

 observed after this operation ; but it gradually recovered, until it 

 seemed entirely normal, with the single exception that it never 

 would eat, all food being introduced forcibly. Five months after 

 the operation the pigeon was killed, and the encephalic cavity 

 was found filled with a white substance containing dark-bordered 

 nerve-fibres and nerve-cells. Voit never before observed anj'thing 

 like regeneration of the nervous substance or so complete a re- 

 storation of the cerebral functions, and he regarded this as an 

 instance of anatomical and physiological regeneration of the 

 hemispheres." Flint,^ from whom this extract has been taken, 

 goes on to say that "the objections to accepting this observation, 

 with the physiological conclusions presented by Voit, are that it 

 is not only possible, but probable, that the hemispheres were not 

 entirelj' removed, and that the posterior portion of the enceph- 

 alon had advanced to occupy in part the space originallj^ filled 

 by the extirpated mass. While we do not assume that anatomical 

 and functional regeneration of the cerebrum in a pigeon is im- 

 possible, it must be admitted that such an extraordinary state- 



' Bischoff and Voit, Sitzungsberichte Acad. Wiss. Munclien, 1863, pp. 

 479, 469, 1868, p. lOo. 



= Human Physiology, by Austin Flint. Jr., :\I. D. N. Y., 1). Appleton 

 & Co., 1876, p. G99. 




ISTS.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 345 



ment as that made b}' Voit cannot be accepted without reserve, 

 merely upon the basis of a single observation." 



In contrast to this case it must be remembered that I only re- 

 moved the npper four-fifths of the cerebrum. In doing this, how- 

 ever, the superficial gray matter of the liemisplieres, recognized 

 as the structure physiologicall3^ concerned in the exercise of the 

 faculties of attention, perception, memory, and will, was removed. 



The subject of the present communication continued in the full 

 possession of its faculties for six months, when, iu the presence 

 of several scientific friends it was put to death under chloroform, 

 tind a jw^t-morteni examination made. On removing the scalp a 

 fibrous structure, analogous to pericranium, was found, occupying 

 the place from which the bone had been removed, in making the 

 vivisection. Cutting this away, a small amount of fluid escaped, 

 and the cranial cavity thus exposed was found occupied b}'^ a white 

 substance resembling the cerebral structure that had been removed 

 six montiis before. Placing a section of the npper portion of this, 

 which had been stained with hematoxyline, under the microscope, 

 a number of bipolar cells characteristic of the gray structure 

 were observed. 



That the bird should have survived such an operation and lived 

 for six months after iu the full possession of its faculties, is a re- 

 markable illustration of tiie recuperative powers of the system. 

 And tiie regeneration of the parts removed is additional evidence 

 in substantiation of the case reported by Voit. 



Unwilling that such an important question should merely rest 

 upon my own observation, I requested the appointment of a 

 committee by the Biological and Microscopical Section to examine 

 the regenerated structure. 



The following report on the microscopic characters of the re- 

 generated tissue was prepared b}^ Dr. Carl Seller, Chairman of the 

 Committee : — 



" The specimen handed to me b}' Dr. J. H. McQuillen appeared 

 to be the medulla, cerebellum, and part of the cerebrum of a bird. 

 Intimately connected with the parts were two tumor-like growths, 

 the one spherical, and of the size of a pea ; the other of irregular 

 outline, and smaller than tiie first. 



" A microscopical examination of these growths revealed thcyn to 

 be composed of nerve-tissue, showing longitudinal and transverse 

 23 




346 PROCEEDINGS OF TIIK ACADEMY OF [1878. 



sections of iicrvc-filtn's, aiid. in si»nie places, iiiullii)ol:ii- ^angli- 

 onic cells. The liloodvossels wiiirli in tlie round growth appeared 

 to radiate from a eoninion centre at the base of the growth were 

 filled with oval iilood-disks." 



This report was accompanied Ity a section of the brain placed 

 under the microscope, and a micro-photograph, showing the multi- 

 polar nerve-cells, prepared by Dr. Seller. 




1878.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 347 



XOVEMBER 5. 



Tlie Pi'esident, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 



Sixty-six persons present. 



The following papers were presented for publication : — 



"On a Belt of Serpentine and Steatite in Radnor Township, 



Del. Co." By Theodore D. Rand. 



"Description of tliree new Species of Calceolte, from the Upper 



Silurian Rocks of Kentucky." By Victor W. Lyon. 



Callima Vulgaris. — Mr. Thomas Meehan referred to a state- 

 ment in a botanical periodical about the Heath being found appa- 

 rently^ indigenous in New Jersey. He had visited the given loca- 

 tion in company witli Mr. Chas. F. Parker, one of the curators of 

 the Academ}-, and gave his reasons in detail for concluding that 

 it had been introduced probably about twelve years ago. It 

 showed no disposition to^et beyond the original place of plantiug. 



He referred to tlie facts given in Silliman^s Journal of 1861 and 

 1862, in regard to the discovery of the same plant at Tewkesbur}-, 

 Mass , pointing out their inconclusive character, and expressing 

 his opinion that, as in the New Jersey case, it was introduced 

 there. 



The following paper was ordered to be printed : — 




348 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1878. 



DESCRIPTIONS OF ICHNEUMONID^, CHIEFLY FROM THE PACIFIC SLOPE 

 OF THE UNITED STATES AND BRITISH NORTH AMERICA.' 



BY E. T. CKKSSON. 



Ichneumon Bolitus, Cresson (Trans. Am. Ent. Soc, vi. 144). 



9. — I^lack, immaculate; me.sothorax, scutellum and alidoincn 

 sliining, the latter rather .strongly tinged with blue or pui-ple ; 

 antennjB ratiier stout, strongly- involute, with a pale anuulus be- 

 yond middle ; tliird joint more than twice longer than broad, and 

 conspicuously longer tiian the fourth; scutellum flat, polished, 

 and nearly destitute of punctures ; metathorax broadly and deeply 

 excavated behind, central area large pentangular, rounded later- 

 ally and emarginate posteriorly ; wings uniformly pale fuliginous; 

 femora robust, anterior tibia? pale. in front; posterior coxoe nude; 

 abdomen oblong ovate, finely, closely, and evenly punctured, 

 apex polished; apex of first segment bj'oadl}' dilated and punc- 

 tured ; gastroc'icli small and deep. Length .30-.42 inch. 



Hah. Lake Lahache, 13. Col. (Crotch) ; Colorado (Smith). 



Ichneumon odiosus, Cresson (Trans. Am. Ent. Soc, vi. 145;. 



%. — Black; anterior orbits, dilated on sides of face, short line 

 in front of tegular, dot beneath, and tips of anterior famora and 

 the four anterior tibia; in front, \yhite ; scutellum convex, punc- 

 tured ; metathorax with strongly defined elevated lines, central 

 area rather large, subrenilbrm ; wings faintly dusky, nervures and 

 stigma black; legs slender; abdomen slightl}- tinged with blue, 

 closely and strongly punctured, strongly constricted at base of 

 segments three and four ; apex of first segment moderately broad, 

 raised medially and punctured ; gastrocaili small and deep. 

 Length .56 inch. 



Hah. California (Behrens). 



' In the early part of the year 1877 this paper was presented to the Cali- 

 fornia Academy of Natural Sciences for publication in its Proceedings, and 

 accepted with the assurance that it would be published in the volume for 

 that year ; with this understanding, the species of Jc7iHeMwo?i., HopUsmenus, 

 Amblyteles, Tro(/u>>, and Plaiyhihus herein described, were referred to in 

 ray paper on the Subfamily Ichneumonides (Trans. Am. Ent. Soc, vi. p. 

 129), as published in the Proc. Cal. Acad. Nat. Sci., 1877 ; but after a delay 

 of over a year, the Academj^ finding it impossible to publish the paper in any 

 reasonable time, the same was withdrawn. 




18T8-] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 349 



Icliiieiimon neutralis, Cresson (Trans. Am. Ent. Soc, vi. 149). r 



S . — Black; anierior orbits, broad on face, lower posterior 

 orbits, dot on each side of clypens, spot at base of mandibles, 

 palpi, line before tegul*, short one beneath, dot on tegnlse ante- 

 riorl}', scutellum, anterior femora in front, four anterior tibiiie in 

 front and intermediate knees, all white; scutellum subconvex, 

 sparsely punctured ; metathorax transversely rugose, posterior 

 face oblique, bounded above by a sharp carina, central area of 

 moderate size, rounded anteriorly, and truncate posteriorh' ; wings 

 sniok}' hyaline, nervures and stigma black ; legs moderatel\' slen- 

 der ; abdomen faintly tinged with blue, closely punctured, some- 

 what shining; apex of first segment not broadl}^ dilated ; gastro- 

 cffili deep. Length .56 inch. 



Hab. California (H. Edwards). Closely allied to siibcyaneus, 

 but is distinguished from that species bj' the posterior legs being 

 entirely black. 

 Ichneumon salvus, Cresson (Trans. Am. Ent. Soc, vi. 166). 



Z. — Black; face, clypeus, mandibles, palpi, scape beneath, 

 ujjper margins of prothorax, teguli^, short line beneath, scutellum 

 and post scutellum, yellow ; mesotliorax with two longitudinal, 

 dull, ferruginous lines dilated anteriorly ; scutellum convex, 

 polislied, very abrupt at sides; metathorax entirely black, obli- 

 quely truncate behind, with large transversely quadrate central 

 area; wings pale yellowish hyaline, stigma fulvous ; legs yellowish, 

 femora ferruginous, with coxoe more or less black above, tips of 

 posterior tibite dusky; abdomen opaque, densely i)uncturcd, apex 

 of first segment, and the second and third entirely, except narrow 

 black posterior margin, yellow ; fourth segment ferruginous, black 

 at tip, remainder black; apex of first segment broad, coarsel\' 

 longitudinally rugose and p3'ramidal in profile; gastrocoeli very 

 large and deep; apical segments almost smooth, and shining; 

 venter black, segments 2-4 yellowish ferrnginous. Lengtli .GG 

 inch. 



Hab. Vancouver's Island (H. Edwards). 



Ichneumon indemnis, Cresson (Trans. Am. Ent. Soc, vi. 172). 



9. — Long, cylindrical, ferruginous ; suture at base of antenna?, 

 middle of A-ertex, spot inclosing ocelli, apex of antennjc, sutures 

 of thorax more or less, tips of posterior femora and of the tib^a?, 

 apex of second, third, and fourth abdominal segments and the 




350 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [187S, 



fifth and following segments entirely, hiack ; ln-ad ratlior narrow, 

 liuciatc ; anlcnniL' slender, third joint long and cylindrical, as long 

 IIS first and sec(jnd together, and nearly twice ns long as the fonrtli; 

 scntellum convex, 3ellow ; nietathorax truncate behind, central 

 area large and oblong subqnadrate; wings smoky hyaline ; legs 

 slender; abdomen long, narrow, linear, subcoinpressed at tip; 

 first segment subqnadrate at tij), slightly narrowed to base of 

 second segment, so that the sides are somewhat rounded, lateral 

 margins depressed, the raised middle being indistinctly acicu- 

 lated ; base of second segment narrowed, depressed, faintly longi- 

 tudinally sculptured; gastrocreli subobsolete ; last A'cntral s(!g- 

 ment long, narrow, not retracted. Length .42 inch. 

 Hal). British Columl)ia (Crotch). 



Ichneumon purpuripennis, Cresson (Trans. Am. Ent, Soc, vi. 175). 



?. — Ferruginous; head buccate; antennte robust, with short, 

 stout joints, l)lack, the basal joints generally ferruginous, some- 

 times entirely black", apex more or less involute; scutellum flat, 

 shining, sparsely' punctured ; metathorax opaque, finely rugosely 

 punctured, rather deeply excavated ])ehind, ceutial area suliquad- 

 rate ; wings fuscous, with a more or less strong violaceous reflec- 

 tion, stigma varies from Ijlack to fulvous ; legs subrobust, jioste- 

 rior tarsi sometimes fuscous; abdomen broadly fusiform, finely 

 and closely punctured, becoming gi-adually less distinct beyond 

 third segment; apex of first segment broadl}' dilated and longi- 

 tudinally acicuhited ; gastrocajli small and rather deep; basal 

 margin of third or fourth segment, or both, sometimes narrowly 

 black. Length .50 inch. 



Hah. California (Behrens, H. Edwards, Stretch). 



Ichneumon cupitus, Cresson (Truns. Am. Ent. Soc, vi. 176). 



%. — Ferruginous; antennte except scape, sometimes occiput 

 and middle of vertex, and sutures of thorax more or less black ; 

 face, scutellum and anterior legs in front pale ferruginous or yel- 

 lowish ; scutellum subconvex, shining, and sparsely punctured; 

 central area of metathorax quadrate; wings fuliginous, violace- 

 ous ; abdomen opaque, closel}' and finely punctured ; apex of first 

 segment rather narrow, shining, minutely aciculated ; gastrocseli 

 large and deep. Length .GO inch. 



Hab. California (Behrens). May l)e the % of iJin-puripenuit^. 




18V8.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 351 



Ichueamon crudosus, Cresson (Trans. Am. Ent. Soc, vi. 175). 



Z . — Head, antennte, and thorax black ; face yellow ; mandibles, 

 palpi, upper anterior orbits, scape, mesothorax except central 

 black stripe, sciitellum, raetathorax above each side of central 

 area and teguloe ferruginous ; scutellum convex, polished ; central 

 area of metathorax small, subrotund ; wings violaceous black ; 

 legs and abdomen entirely ferruginous, the latter nari'ow, opaque, 

 densely and finely punctured ; apex of first segment narrow, acicu- 

 latcd ; gastroca?li large and deep. Length .70 inch. 



Hab. California (H. Edwards). 



Idmeumon compar, Cresson (Trans. Am. Ent. Soc, vi. 175). 



9. — Ferruginous; head strongly buccate, anterior orbits and 

 palpi yellowish ; antennre with short stout joints, apex black ; 

 collar 3'ellow above; scutellum flat, shining, sparsely punctured; 

 metathorax strongl}^ punctured, posterior face deeply excavated, 

 bounded above b}' a sharp carina, central area quadrate; sutures 

 of thorax sometimes more or less broadly margined with black, 

 in one specimen the pleura beneath is almost entirely black ; wings 

 yellowish fuscous, stigma honey -_vellow ; femora robust, sometimes 

 the posterior tibise is more or less yellowish at base, and the 

 anterior legs tinged with 3'ellow in front; abdomen fusiform, ver\' 

 closely and finely punctured, smooth at apex ; apex of first seg- 

 ment broadly dilated and longitudinally aciculated ; gastrocaeli 

 rather large and deep. Length .55 inch. 



Hab. Vancouver's Island (H. Edwards). Closely allied to 

 piirpuripennis, which has stouter antennae, with shorter basal 

 joints, etc. 



Ichneumon difficilis, Cresson (Trans. Am. Ent. Soc, vi. 176). ' 



% . — Head black, upper anterior orbits, face, clypeus, mandibles, 

 except tips, palpi, and scape beneath yellow ; thorax black, upper 

 margin of prothorax, large furcate mark on mesothorax, scutel- 

 lum, and metathorax above more or less ferruginous; tegulae, 

 short line beneath and sometimes the scutellum, yellow; scutellum 

 subconvex, polished ; wings fuscous, stigma fulvous; legs ferru- 

 ginous, coxffi and tips of posterior tibiae black; abdomen ferru- 

 ginous, densely punctured, opaque, base of segments three, four, 

 and five, more or less black: apex of first segment coarsel}' acicu- 

 lated ; gastrocaeli large and very deep. Length .56 inch. , 



Hab. California (Behrens). 




352 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1878. 



Va7'.? Pale feiiuginoiis; thorax stmie as the above, with the 

 seutellura yellow ; foia- anterior coxse yellow ; apex of liist abdo- 

 niinal segment nearly smooth, seareely aciculated; blaek Itauds at 

 base of segments 8 — 5 narrow. 



Hah. Yaneonver's Island (JI. Edwards). 

 Ichneumon nuncius, Cresson (Trans. Am. Ent. Soc, vi. 170). 



% — Black ; face, anterior orl)its, lower [)OSterior orbit.", elypeiis, 

 mandibles exeept tip.'*, seape beneath, npper margin of prothorax, 

 leguhv, short line beneath, sciitelhim, post-scntellnm, and poste- 

 rior face of inetathoi'ax more or less palej^ellow; mesothorax with 

 two pale lines or a spot on the disk; scutellum conve?:, polished; 

 elevated lines of metathorax sharply defined, posterior face ob- 

 liqnely truncate, central area quadrate; wings hyaline, dusky at 

 tips, stigma fulvous; legs ferruginous, four anterior coxa3 and 

 trochanters yellow, their femora, tibije, and tarsi yellowish in front: 

 l)osterior coxae, trochanters and tips of their tibiae black; apex 

 of their coxre beneath, and tips of their tarsi 3'ellowish; ab- 

 domen ferruginous, first segment black, with the apex ferruginous,, 

 aciculated; gastrocicli rather large and moderately deep. Length 

 .55 inch. 



Hah. California (K. Edwards). 

 Ichneumon sequax, Cresson (Trans. Am. Ent. Soc, vi. 181). 



9. — Ferruginous, shining, finelj', rather feebly punctured ; an- 

 terior orbits pale; antenna3 long, slender, black, scape ferruginous, 

 third joint long, cylindrical, longer than fourth, apex of flagel- 

 lum attenuated ; scutellum broad, flattened, broadly truncate at 

 tip, the lateral region, basal excavation and carina?, pleura except 

 lateral spot, sides of prothorax more or less, and base and flanks 

 of metathorax black; metathorax truncate behind, lateral angles 

 prominent, central area large, quadrate ; wings hj-aliue, faintly 

 dusk}', stigma black; legs slender, entirely ferruginous; abdomen 

 broadly fusiform, depressed, polished at tip; apex of first seg- 

 ment broad, and finely aciculated; gastrocaeli oblique and deep. 

 Length .50 inch. 



Hab. Vancouver's Island (H. Edwards). 

 Ichneumon hiemalis, Cresson (Trans. Am. Ent. Soc, vi. 181). 



?. — Small, densely sculptured, ferruginous, space behind an- 

 tennsie, apex of flagellura, pleura and metathorax black; an tenure 

 yellowish-ferruginous, rather long, slightl}' thickened towards tip, 




1878.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 353 



joints short, third about twice longer than broad and subequal 

 with fourtii; scutellum flattened; metathorax obliquely truncate 

 behind, central area quadrate; wings dusk\-, stigma _yellow ; legs 

 slender, four posterior coxne black, ferruginous at tips; abdomen 

 fusiform, depressed, deusel.y coarsely sculptured, smooth and shin- 

 ing at apex; first segment rather broadly- dilated at tij), and 

 coarsely longitudinally sculptured, gastrocaeli obliquely linear. 

 Length .30 inch. 



Hah. Aleutian Islands (H. Edwards). 



Iclineumoii cestus, Cresson (Trans. Am. Ent. Soc, vi. 182). 



9. — Pale ferruginous, opaque, densel}* and finel}' punctured; 

 antennae slender, third joint long, cylindrical, much longer than 

 fourth, a[)ical joints blackish; anterior angle of prothorax, basal 

 excavation of scutellum, basal suture of metathorax, irregular 

 patch on disk of second abdominal segment and broad band at 

 base of third segment, black ; scutellum depressed, polished, punc- 

 tured, sides abrupt, apex rounded; metathorax coarsely punctured, 

 excavated behind, with spiniform lateral angles, central area quad- 

 rate, not well defined; wings yellowish hyaline, a fuscous cloud 

 along base of first submarginal cell, stigma fulvous; tips of poste- 

 rior tibiffi slightly dusk}', their coxoe beneath with a small pubes- 

 cent patch near tip; abdomen fusiform, apex of first segment 

 broad and finel}' scabrous; gastrocoeli transversely linear, rather 

 deep. Length 40 inch. 



Hah. Yancouver's Lsland (H. Edwards). Easily recognized by 

 the broad black band at base of third abdominal segment, and by 

 the subfasciate wings. 



Iclmeumoii russatus, Cresson (Trans. Am. Ent. Soc , vi. 183). 



9. — Ferruginous; head and mesothorax sparsely punctured; 

 head buccate, middle of face prominent; antennjB sliort. robust, 

 strongly involute, scape subglobose, third joint nearly subquad- 

 rate, and equal with fourth, the joints towards apex thickened, 

 obfuscated; scutellum flat, polished, with a few scattered punc- 

 tures; metathorax deeply excavated behind, with rather promi- 

 nent subspiniform lateral angles, central area subquadrate; sutures 

 of prothorax beneath, suture at base of scutellum, as well as its 

 lateral region, and lower margin of metathorax, black ; wings fus- 

 co-hyaline ; alidomen fusiform, very densely and minutely sculp- 

 tured on second and third segments, apical segments smooth and 




354 PIIOCEEDINOS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1878. 



shiniiiii;; apex of first segment {j^riulimlly dilated, ratlier coarsely' 

 acieiilnted, dei)re.ssed, not at all raised medially; gaslroeaOi sub- 

 obsolete; a fuscous stain on second segment (wliicli may be acci- 

 dental). Length .40 ineli. 



ll(tl). N'aiieouver's Island (II. Edwards). 

 Ichneumon semissis, Cregoon (Trims. Am. Ent. Soc. vi. 18.3). 



9. — Ferruginous, opatiue; liea<l biviad, sub-buccatc; antennip 

 moderately slender, dusky at tips, third joint more than twice 

 longer than broa<l. and a little longer than fourth; anterior angle 

 of mesothorax and basal and lateral regions of seutellum Ijlack; 

 scutelhun subeonvex, shining, rounded at tip; nietathorax roughly 

 punctured, rather deeply excavated behind, with prominent obtuse 

 lateral angles, central area quadrate; wings pale yellowish-fiiscous; 

 abdomen fusiform, rather strongly punctured on second segment, 

 apical segments gradually smoother and shining; apex of lirst 

 segment gradually, rather broadly dilated and feebly aciculated ; 

 gastrocreli shallow, not well marked. Length .40 inch. 



Hah. Mohave Desert, California (Crotehj. 

 Ichneumon petulcus, Cresson (Trans. Am. Ent. Soc, vi. 185). 



9. — Small, robust, ferruginous, shining; head strongl}- buccate, 

 face short and prominent on middle, polished ; antennie short, 

 robust, with short close-set joints, scape globose; third joint 

 nearly quadrate, equal with third, tlagellum obfuscated; front 

 behind antenn;e deeply excavated, occiput deeply emarginate ; 

 mesothorax subtrilobate ; scutelhun Hat, polished; metathorax 

 deeply excavated behind, lateral angles rather prominent, central 

 area subquadrate ; lateral region of seutellum, spot on sides of 

 prothorax, anterior margin of pleura and lower margin of meta- 

 thorax, black; wings hyaline, faintly tinged with yellowish; legs 

 robust; abdomen fusiform, finely punctured, shining at apex; 

 first segment gradually dilated at tip and depressed, indistinctly 

 sculptured; gastrocjeli obsolete. Length .26 inch. 

 Ilab. San Barbara, California (Crotch). 



Hoplismenus pacificus, Cresson (Trans. Am. Ent. Soc, vi. 186). 



9 Black, opaque; mandibles and palpi brownish; clypeus 



sometimes more or less ferruginous ; antennae slender, with a yel- 

 lowish-white annulus, scai)e ferruginous beneath ; seutellum 

 strongly gibbous, convex, or subpyramidal, shining; metathorax 

 coarsely, transversely rugose, smoother on each side at base, trun- 




1818.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 355 



cate behind, lateral angles veiy prominent, obtuse, central area 

 quadrate, sometimes longitudinally rugose ; wings uniform!)^ fuli- 

 ginous, with a strong violaceous reflection, nervures and stigma 

 black ; legs, with coxae, ferruginous, sometimes brownish-ferrugin- 

 ous, posterior tibire fuscous, the base often more or less ferruginous, 

 their tarsi whitish with basal joint almost entirely fuscous; abdo- 

 men hroad, ovate, depressed, shining at tip, second and third 

 segments closely and strongly punctured, the punctures confluent 

 at base of second, gastrocaeli large and deep ; apex of first seg- 

 ment broad, scabrous; venter shining. Length .*70 inch. 



^. — More slender: sides of face 3'ellow ; cl3^peus, labrum, and 

 scape beneath ferruginous, flagellum entirely black ; legs pale fer- 

 ruginous. Length .55 inch. 



Hah. Vancouver's Island (H. Edwards). 

 Amblyteles mormonus, Cresson (Trans. Am. Ent. Soc, vi. 190). 



9. — Deep black; four anterior legs, except coxae and trochan- 

 ters, and posterior femora ferruginous ; antennre long, slender, 

 basal joints of flagellum-long and cylindrical; head small, cheeks 

 flat; thorax robust, stiongly punctured; scutellum depressed; 

 metathorax obliquely t)'uncate behind, central area transverse; 

 tegiilte fuscous; wings fuscous, rather paler at tips; legs subro- 

 l)ust, posterior tibiae and tarsi unusuall3^ robust, the latter short ; 

 abdomen broadly fusiform, opaque at base, shining at tip, apex of 

 first segment broad, aciculated ; second and third segments closely 

 and strongl}' punctured, longitudinally rugose at base of second, 

 gastrocaeli small and deep; last ventral segment scared}' retracted. 

 Length .45 inch. 



Hah. Great Salt Lake, Utali. 



Amblyt.lcs hiulcus, Cresson (Trans. Am. Ent. Soc, vi. 194). 



9 Long, narrow, cylindrical, shining ferruginous ; sutures of 



thorax, apex of posterior tibia? and sometimes of their femoni, 

 and basal margins of abdominal segments 3-5, black ; head nar- 

 row, buccate ; antennae long, slender, curled, and fuscous at tip, 

 third joint at least three times longer than broad, cylindrical, 

 much longer than fourth ; mesothoiax strongly punctured, con- 

 vex ; scutellum subconvex, polished ; metathorax obliquely trun- 

 cate behind ; wings dusk3'-hyaline, stigma 3'ellow ; legs slender ; 

 abdo^^en smooth and polished, long, narrow, subcompressed at 

 tip ; apex of first segment narrow, with almost parallel sides, 




350 rROCEEDINOS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1878. 



depressed above ami iixlistincUy sculptured; base of second 

 sliglitly narrowed, depressed, very finel>' and sparsely i)unctiired, 

 gastrocieli longiUKlinal, su])ol)solete ; last ventral segment long, 

 narrow, not retracted. Length .48 inch. 



JIah. Lake Lahache, IJritish Columbia (Crotch). 



Trogus Edwardsii, Cre?son (Trans. Am. Ent. Soc, vi. 195). 



%. — ]>lack; head transversel}' subtriangular, not at all bnccale; 

 face, clypeus, labrum, mandibles, palpi, narrow npper anterior 

 orbits, line on posterior orbits, scape beneath, and most of flagel- 

 lum beneath, two spots in front of mesothorax, scntelluras, ele- 

 vated disk of metathorax and togulie, ferruginous; scutcllum 

 acutely pj-ramidal ; metathorax with two sharp longitudinal 

 ridges behind, between wliich the surface is coarsely and tians- 

 versel}' rugose ; wings blackish-fuliginous, violaceous ; legs slen- 

 der, yellowish-ferruginous, four anterior coxa? at base and i)OSte- 

 rior })air entirely black; abdomen depressed, longitudinally 

 aciculated, the segments strongl}' constricted at base, especially' 

 at sides, ferruginous, a black spot on disk of second and following 

 segments, becoming gradually larger, until the one on the fifth 

 covers nearly the entire upper surface of the segment ; apex of first 

 segment quadrate, narrowing suddenly before tubercles ; gastro- 

 cfeli large and deep. Length .73 inch. 



Hab. Vancouver's Island (H. Edwards). A very pretty species. 



Trogus buccatus, Cresson (Trans. Am. Ent. Soc, vi. 199). 



9. — Robust, ferruginous; head large, strongly' buccate, cheeks 

 much swollen ; tips of mandibles and antenna?, except base, black ; 

 scutellum gibbous, convex, sides very abrupt ; metathorax sca- 

 brose, with two sharp, divergent carina? behind, between which 

 the surface is transversely' striated, central area small, raised and 

 not well defined; wings violaceous black in one specimen, and 

 Aellowish-fuscous in another; stigma fulvous, areolet shaped as 

 usual ill the genus; abdomen robust, subconA'ex, densely- and 

 linel}- i)unctured ; gastrocreli large, but not deep. Length .60 

 inch. 



Hab. Vancouver's Island (H. Edwards). 



Platylabus censors, Cresson (Trans. Am. Ent. Soc, vi. 2U0). 



%. — Black; anterior orbits, broad on face, line on posterior 

 orbits, sides of clypeus, spot on mandibles, palpi, scape beneath, 

 upper margin of the prothorax narrowlj', sometimes interrupted, 




1878.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 357 



(lot on tegulse and a line beneath, white ; antennae as long as the 

 body, slender; scntelluni distinctly margined, with a pale spot 

 towards tip; metathorax obliqnely trnncate behind, lateral angles 

 small, snbspiniform ; wings hyaline ; legs blackish, tips of poste- 

 rior coxge, their trochanters and all the femora ferruginous, spot 

 on anterior coxfe beneath, spot on four anterior trochanters and 

 their femora and tibiiB in front whitisli ; abdomen shining, feeble- 

 punctured ; gastrocaeli deep, transverse. Length .35 inch. 



Va7\ Abdomen black, with segments 2-5 narrowh* margined 

 with red at a})ex ; metathorax en tirelj' black, legs mostly black, 

 posterior femora only tinged with red. 



Hab. California (Behrens ). This may be the S of califor- 

 nicus. 



Platylabus calif ornicus, Cresson (Tians. Am. Ent. Soc, ri. 201). 



9.— Ferruginous, shining; anterior, and sometimes posterior, 

 orbits more or loss white ; occiput sometimes blackisli ; antenna? 

 long, slender, more or less black; upper margin of prothorax 

 sometimes narrowly white; mesothorax often varied with black; 

 scutellum strongly margined ; metathorax obliquely trnncate 

 behind, bounded above and laterally by a sharp carina, lateral 

 angles prominent, spiniform ; wings hyaline; abdomen polished, 

 a few small punctures at base of second segment ; gastrocfeli 

 transverse, deep, nearlj"^ meeting on disk, apex of first segment 

 rather broad, depressed, smooth, sparsely punctured. Length .35 

 inch. 



Hab. San Zalito, California (Behrens.). 



Phygadeuon Crotchii, n. ?p. 



?. — Eobust, black, shining; mandil)les, palpi and upper ante- 

 rior orbits more or less ferruginous; antennae long, stout, a broad 

 white annulus on middle, third joint rather more tiian twice longer 

 than broad, and equal with fourth ; mesothorax finely punctured ; 

 scutellum triangular, flat, sparsely punctured ; metathorax opaque, 

 densel}' sculptured, not areolated, broadl}' excavated behind, 

 lateral angles prominent, tuberculiforin ; tegulie ferruginous ; 

 wings yellowish-hyaline ; legs subrobust, ferruginous, coxje, tro- 

 chanters, posterior femora except base, and tips of their tibire 

 black, anterior tibiie yellowish ; abdomen depressed, smooth and 

 jiolished, apex of first, and second segment entirely, ferrugnious ; 

 first segment robust, broad at apex ; ovipositor short. Length 

 .38 inch. 




358 PROCEEDINCJS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1878. 



JInJi. T.ako Tiiiliuelie, liritisli Columbia ((j. I). Crotch). A very 

 (lislinct species. 



Phygadeuon albirictus, n. sp. 



%. — IJIack ; licad hiiccati', chocks swollen; mandibles, palpi, 

 scajjc beneath and tegnUe, white ; wings hyaline, iridescent ; nie- 

 tathorax areolated ; anterior legs, and four jjosterior tiliiie ferrn- 

 ginoiis, four anterior trochanters pale, tips of i)Osterior tii)i;c 

 blackish; abdonu'ii sliining, inipunctiired, first and base of second 

 segment finely aciculate, narrow apical margin of second, and 

 most of third segment pale ferruginous ; first segment narrow, 

 slightl}' wider towards apex. Length .■20 inch. 



Hob. California (If. Edwards). 



Phygadeuon limatus, n. sp. 



9. — Black, shining; head scarcely buccate; mandibles, antenme 

 at base, tegula?, legs and abdomen, except first segment, ferrugi- 

 nous; palpi pale; antennaj slender, basal joints of flagellum slen- 

 der, cylindrical; metathorax strongl\' areolated, excavated behind, 

 with prominent lateral angles; wings hyaline, areolet quite small, 

 5-angular ; legs slender, posterior tarsi blackish; abdomen ovate, 

 convex, smooth, polished, im[)unctured, first segment gradually' 

 dilated to apex, with prominent lateral tui)ercles l)ehind the mid- 

 dle, apex narrower than base of second segment ; ovipositor about 

 half the length of abdomen. Length .25 inch. 



Hah. California (H. Edwards). 



Phygadeuon crassipes, Provancher (N;it. Can. \x., p. 11). 



9. — Robust, black; clypeus, mandibles, palpi, anteniKC except 

 tips, tegulae, legs and alulomen ferruginous ; antenufe robust, with 

 short, thick-set joints ; disk of mesothorax flat, depressed and 

 rugose; excavation at base of scutellum bifoveolate, deep; meta- 

 thorax distinctly areolated, the carinit} sharp and well defined, 

 posterior face deepl}' excavated, lateral angles prominent, central 

 area transversely ovate ; wings fuscous ; legs robust, femora swol- 

 len, tibiie dilated at apex, and strongl}' setose; abdomen smooth, 

 shining, impunctured, apex of first segment broadh' dilated, flat- 

 tened. Length .20-.30 inch. 



Hab. California; Vancouver's Island (H. Edwards). 



Phygadeuon californicus, n. sp. 



%• — Black, sliining; head large, face pubescent ; clypeus. mouth, 

 antennje at base beneath, teguloe, legs and abdomen, ferruginous; 




1878.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PflTLADELPHIA. 359 



anteiinoe long: metathoiax slrongl^' areolatetl, truncate l)eliind ; 

 wings smoky; legs snlji'obnst; alidomen elongate, shining, inti- 

 punctnred, first segment blackish at base, strongly l)icarinate be- 

 fore apex, which is a little narrower than base of second segment; 

 apical segment Ijlack. Length .25 inch. 



Hah. California (H. Edwards). Tiiis may be the S of crassipes. 



Phygadeuon fulvescens, n. sp. 



9. — Shining, fulvo-ferrnginons ; apical half of antennre black, 

 third joint rather more than twice longer than wide, and longer 

 than fourth ; cheeks, mesothorax, and scntellura polished, impunc- 

 tured; metathorax sal)opaqne, not areolated, deeply excavated 

 behind, lateral angles prominent, the carina being sharp, a trian- 

 gular rugose space on summit ; sutures of thorax beneath more 

 or less l)lack ; wings smoky, stigma fulvous ; legs snbrobust, tiljiiE 

 smooth; abdomen }K>lislied, impunctured, apex of first segment 

 gradually dilated to tip, wliicli is moderately broad ; ovipositor 

 short. Length .35 inch. 



Hah. California (IF. Edwards). 



Cryptus proximus, Cresson (Proc. Ent. Soc, Phila., iii. p. 290). 



9. — Black, legs except coxae ferruginous; wings violaceous, 

 lilack; abdomen with a Itluish tinge; all the coxie slender, sim- 

 1)1 e ; antennae setaceous, very slender. Length .65 inch. 



Hah. Vancouver's Lsland (II. Edwards). Differs from Colorado 

 specimens only by the darker wings. 



9 var. ? perplexus. — Scape beneatii, spot on mandibles and the 

 legs, including coxjie and tro(!hanters, brown-ferruginous. 



Hab. California (II. Edwards). 



Cryptus dirus, n. sp. 



9. — Black; abdomen except first segment ferruginous; ante- 

 rior legs tinged with ferruginous; antennae slender, fourth joint 

 about two-tliirds the length of third ; a short narrow pale line on 

 posterior orbits ; prothorax, pleura, and metathorax rugose ; me- 

 sothorax finely punctui*ed ; wings fuliginous, areolet moderate, 

 side nervures slightly oblique; tarsi simple; abdomen siiining, 

 impunctuied ; ovii)ositor nearl}' as long as abdomen. Lengtli .43 

 inch. 



Hab. — California (11. Edwards). 



Cryptus relativus, n. sp. 



9. — Black; legs except coxae, trochanters, posterior tibia?, and 




300 PIUICKKDINMJ.S OF TIIK ACAliK.MV OF [1878. 



tarsi, and abdomen t;xcei)t first segment more or less, ferruginous; 

 line or spot on iinteritn- orliits and posterior orbits narro\vl3' whit- 

 ish ; antenna; setaceous, very slender, the fourth joint al)Out threc- 

 ftjurths the length of third, wliich is long an<l cylindrical ; ineso- 

 thorax with deeply impressed longitudinal lines, shining, confusedly 

 punctured; prothorax, pleura, and metathorax opaque, rugose, 

 obliquely so on sides of nuttatliorax, wliich is truncate behind, 

 with prominent subacute lateral angles, disk with a subtriangular, 

 ill-dedned inclosure ; wings fuscous or fuliginous, areolet mcMlcrate, 

 with side ncrvures slightly (d)lique; legs slendei', the joints of the 

 four anterior tarsi dilated and' spinose, posterior tarsi fuscous; 

 abdomen im[)unctate, with first segment slender at base, gradually 

 and slightly dilated to apex, l)icarinate on disk, black, the apex 

 sometimes ferruginous; oviitositor two tliirds the length of abdo- 

 men. Length .55 inch. 



Huh. British Columbia (Crotch). Closely related to rohustus 

 Cres., from Colorado, which also has the four anterior tarsi dilated, 

 but has all the tibi:i2 ferruginous, the abdomen black, with the 

 apex onl^' sometimes ferruginous. 



Cryptus pictifrons, n. ?p. 



1. — Black; four anterior legs except coxa? and trochanter.'*, 

 posterior femora and the abdomen except first segment fusco-fer- 

 ruginous ; anterior orl)its, broad on face, line on posterior orbits, 

 spot on clypeus and s[JOt on mandibles, white ; mesothf)rax and 

 scutellum shining, rest of thorax rugose, opaque ; a well-defined 

 arcuated carina across metathorax on A'erge of truncation, and 

 an irregular transverse one across the middle, the space between 

 the two longitiidinalh' rugose ; wings hyaline, areolet moderate, 

 almost quadrate; posterior til)i;B and basal joints of tarsi black, 

 remainder of their tarsi whitish ; abdomen slender, shining, impunc- 

 tate. first segment slightly broader jjosteriorlj', with prominent 

 lateral tubendes. Length .52 inch. 



Hah. Green River, Wyoming Territory (Putnam). 



Cryptus tejonensis, n. .^p. 



?. — Black ; orbits, sometimes spots on face, on clypeus, and on 

 mandibles, scape beneath, legs including coxae, and abdomen 

 entirely, ferruginous or sanguineous ; antennre setaceous, very 

 slender; metathorax with spiniform lateral angles; wings fuligin- 

 ous, more or less violaceous; tarsi slender, simple; apex of (irst 




1818.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 361 



abdominal segraont broad, nearlj' quadrate, the sides being 

 straight, ovipositor long. Length .45-.'r0 inch. 



Hah. Fort Tejon, California (H. Edwards, Crotch). 



Cryptus pacificus, n. sp. 



%. — Black; legs including coxiB and abdomen entirely, ferru- 

 ginous; orbits, interrupted behind summit of ej-es, spot on mid- 

 dle of face, clypeus, spot of mandibles and palpi, whitish ; an- 

 tennce long, scape beneath sometimes tinged with red; tegulai 

 reddish in front ; mesothorax and scutellura shining, the former 

 with two deeply impressed lines ; metathorax rugose, with two 

 irregular, wavy, transverse carinas, somewhat confused on the 

 disk, lateral angles subacute ; wings h^-aline, apical margins nar- 

 rowly dusk}', areolet moderate, broad, nearly quadrate; legs long, 

 slender, posterior tibios dusky, their tarsi whitish beyond first 

 joint, sometimes the anterior coxaj and the four anterior trochan- 

 ters beneath are pale ; abdomen long, slender, especially at base, 

 shining, irnpunctate, the first segment slightly widened tow^ards 

 tip, lateral tubercles prominent, behind wliich the upper surface is 

 somewhat snlcate. Length .45-.G5 inch. 



Hah. California (H. Edwards). 



Cryptus latus, Provancher (Nat. Can. vi. p. 204). 



9. — Small, black; antennie with a white annulus; four anterior 

 legs except coxre and trochanters, posterior femora except tips, 

 and the three basal segments of abdomen ferruginous; wings 

 fusco-hyaline ; base of posterior tibiix^ and of the first, and more 

 or less of the second, joint of their tarsi, also of tlie tibial spurs, 

 wliite ; a white spot at apex of abdomen ; ovipositor as long as 

 abdomen. Length .25 inch. 



Ilah. British Columbia (Crotch). 



Cryptus atriceps, n. sp. 



9. — Fulvo-ferruginous ; head entirely black; palpi pale; an- 

 tenme black beyond the fiftli joint, joints 8-10 white above, third 

 joint very long, about one-fifth longer than fourth ; sutures of 

 thorax more or less black; impressed lines of mesothorax black 

 anteriorly ; a line or spot on upper margin of prothorax, tegula^, 

 apex of scutellum and spot on postscutellnm, white; metathorax 

 finely sculptured, a well-defined transverse carina before the mid- 

 dle, lateral angles small, spiniform ; wings fusco-iiyaline, areolet 

 pentagonal ; tips of posterior tibiivi and of their tarsi dusky, 

 24 




362 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1878. 



second .Mini tliinl Joints of the latU-r while ; aljdonii-ii robust, 

 niinutel}' punctured on second segment, apex of first segment 

 dilated ; apex of al)domcn dusk}-, ovipositor long. Length .2,') 

 inch. 



II(iJ>. Great Salt Lake, Utah. 



Cryptus calipterus, Sny (Bost. Journ. Nat. Hist., i p. 2.34). 



9. — Ferruginous; antennsii except base, tips of posterior iWnx 

 and l)and at base of tliird abdominal segment, black ; head nar- 

 row, clieeks flat; third joint of anteniiic about four times longer 

 than broad, and eipial with fourtli ; wings yellow with three broad 

 fuliginous bands, the apical one broadest and confluent beneath 

 with the middle band, leaving a triangular yellow spot beyond 

 areolet, which is small and nearly quadrate; ovii)ositor longer 

 than abdomen. Length .50 inch. 



Hob. California (Stretcli), Utah. The specimen from the last 

 localit}' is paler ferruginous, with tip only of antennic black, and 

 the fuscous bands on wings quite narrow. 



Cryptus Crotchii, n. ?p. 



9 — Robust, fulvo-fcrruginous; head subbuccate; antennre black 

 at tips, third joint rather more than three times longer than 

 broad, and equal Avith fourth; mesothorax and scutellum shining, 

 minutely punctured ; pleura confluently punctured, opaque; meta- 

 thorax rugose, opaque, an arched transverse carina above poste- 

 rior truncation ; wings yellow, marked as in calipterus^ areolet 

 small, ncarlj' quadrate ; tii)s of posterior tibiiii black, tarsi strongly 

 setose beneath; abdomen opaque, impunctate, a black band at 

 base of third segment, apex of first segment squarely dilated, 

 somewhat sulcate medially ; ovipositor as long as the abdomen. 

 Length .60 inch. 



%. — Yellowish-ferruginous; face, clypeus, and cheeks 3-ellow ; 

 antenufe stout, slender at tips, which are black as well as joints 

 two and three above; prothorax beneath, pleura, sides of meta- 

 thorax, and lateral region of scutellum, more or less black ; wings 

 yellow-hyaline, with the fuscous bands nearlj' or quite obliterated ; 

 abdomen slender, base of third and fourth segments more or less 

 black; sometimes the whole abdomen is obfuscated. Length .50 

 inch. 



Hab. San Diego, California (Crotch). Closely allied to calip- 

 tei'Ufi, but more robust, with broader head, and shorter basal 

 joints of flagellum. 




1878.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF rillLADELPIIIA. 363 



Cryptus turbatus, n. sp. 



9. — Size and sculpture of Crotchii, but of a darker ferruginous 

 color; apex of antennoe, sutures of thorax, tip of posterior tibii>?, 

 and band at base of third abdominal segment, i)lack ; metatliorax 

 scabrous, rounded, subtruncate behind, with a short oblique 

 carina on each side; wings fuliginous, a i)aler patch imm-ediatelj' 

 before and behind stigma, areolet small, quadrate ; otherwise as 

 in Crotchii. Length .60 inch, 



Eab. California (Stretch). This may prove to be only a dark- 

 winged variet3' of Crotchii. 



Cryptus resolutus, n. sp. 



% . — Fulvo-ferruginous ; head black, sides of face, spot on mid- 

 dle, clyi)eus and labrum yellow ; orbits very broad behind eyes, 

 but narrowed beneath, palpi and scape beneath fulvous; remainder 

 of antennae black; prothorax except upper margin, whole of 

 pleura, broad stripe on anterior middle of mesothorax, lateral 

 region of scutellum, basal margin of metathorax and the flanks, 

 black ; mesothorax shining, sparsely punctured ; scutellum elon- 

 gate, flattened, polished; metathorax roujided, depressed above, 

 pubescent, without transverse cariujc ; wings fusco-by aline, darker 

 at tips ; the coxae, except posterior pair above, stripe on posterior 

 femora beneath and tips of their tibiae black ; abdomen slender, 

 especiall}' at base, smooth and polished, basal margin of second 

 and following segments more or less black, first segment sliglitly 

 broader at tip. Length .55 inch. 



Hab. California (IJ. Edwards). 

 Cryptus Edwardii, n. sp. 



9. Ferruginous, shining; head baccate, cheeks swollen; an- 

 tennjie unusually short, third, fourth, and fifth joints each rather 

 more than twice longer than broad, sixth joint quadrate, remain- 

 der transverse, apical joints black ; sides of thorax and legs with 

 sparse glittering hairs; mesothorax with a few scattering large 

 punctures ; pleura sparsely punctured ; metathorax obsoletel^' 

 sculptured, destitute of carinae, the flanks smooth and shining, 

 posterior face Avitii a broad shallow excavation, sides rounded ; 

 wings fuliginous or generally fusco-hyaline, darker on apical mar- 

 gins, sometimes yellowish-hyaline, subfasciate with fuscous, areo- 

 let moderate, subquadrate; legs robust, the femora somewhat 

 swollen, four anterior tarsi with dilated, spinose joints, the inter- 




3G4 PROCEEDINGS OF TIIK ACADEMY OF [1878. 



mediate tibiie doiisoly spinose; nbdoimn roljiist, irnpuiicLiiretl, 

 npex of first segineiit rather broadly dilated, base of third seg- 

 ment narrowly black; ovipositor about as long as abdomen. 

 Length .40-.00 inch. 



Hah. California (11. Edwards); Wilmington, Cal. (Crotch). 

 Very distinct by tlie form of antennie and legs. The color of tiic 

 wings varies greatly. 



Cryptus punicus, n. sp. 



9. — Dark rufo-ferniginous, shining; head long, narrow, subtri- 

 angular in front, clieeks Hat, polished ; antenna' long, setaceous, 

 very slender, black, scape ferruginous ; mesothorax and scutelhim 

 smooth and polished, Avith a few scattering punctures, the two 

 longitudinal impressed lines on mesothorax very deep; prothorax 

 and pleura opaque, finely rugose, obliquelj' so on pleura ; ineta- 

 thorax rugose, opaque, truncate behind, the verge with a sharp 

 carina, ending on each side in a short stout spine, disk with a sub- 

 triangular inclosed space ; wings dark fuliginous, violaceous, 

 areolet moderate, subquadrate; legs slender, tarsi slender and 

 simple, posterior tibia? more or less fuscous, middle of their tarsi 

 jjale ; abdomen shining, impunctured, first segment with mode- 

 rately' dilated apex, before which the disk is strongly bicarinate ; 

 ovipositor two-thirds the length of abdomen. Length .55 inch. 



%. — Very slender; dark ferruginous; shining; a broad' band 

 extending from base of antennae to posterior margin of occiput, 

 tips of mandibles, antennre except scape and sutures of thorax 

 nearly- black ; anterior orbits sometimes yellowish ; pleura finely 

 punctured ; metathorax oblique, subconvex, graduall}' descend- 

 ing to tip. finely punctured, thickly clothed with short black 

 pubescence, flanks strongl}^ punctured ; legs slender, posterior 

 tibiae more or less obfuscated, tarsi beyond first joint yellowish- 

 white; abdomen slender, iDolished, first segment verj* slightly 

 wider posteriori}-, the lateral tubercles prominent. Length .50- 

 .55 inch. 



Hah. California; ^Yashing•ton Territory; Vancouver's Island 

 (IT. Edwards). 



Cryptus purpuripennis, n. sp. 



9. — Ferruginous, shining; head subbuccate, deeplj' excavated 

 behind antenna?; antennoe long, rather slender, apical half black, 

 joints 3-5 equal in length, each being about three times longer 




18T8.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 365 



than broad; mesothovax convex, sparse!}' and finely punctnred, 

 with a few scattering larger punctures; pleura and flanks of meta- 

 thorax finel}^ punctured, shining; upper portion of metatliorax 

 finely shagreened, subopaque, rounded, without carinas, except on 

 verge of the posterior truncation; wings blackish-fuliginous, 

 strongl}' violaceous, areolet small, nearly quadrate; legs rather 

 slender, tarsi simple; abdomen swollen beyond first segment, 

 polished, impunctured, apex of first segment dilated, disk of first 

 and second segments with a shallow depression; ovipositor as long 

 as abdomen Length .55 inch. 



Hah. California (H. Edwards). Resembles pu?izcus very much 

 in color, but the head is more buccate, the antennae more robust? 

 with shorter joints and differently colored ; the sculpture of the 

 thorax and shape of the abdomen are entirely different. 



Linoceras Edwardsii, n. pp. 



%. — Black; face, clj'peus, labrum, mandibles, palpi, upper an- 

 terior orbits, line on posterior orbits, scape beneath, tegulae, spot 

 beneath, and the scutellnms, pale lemon-j^ellow; antennie orange- 

 yellow, black at extreme tips; wings hyaline, tinged with j-ellow, 

 extreme apical margins fuscous; legs 3'ellow, verj' slender, poste- 

 rior pair ver}'- long, posterior coxse, base of their troclianters 

 above and their femora except base, and tips of their tibifie be- 

 neath, black; abdomen ver^' slender, lemon-yellow, base of second 

 and following segments broadl}' black, also a black spot on apex 

 of first segment between tubercles and tip. Length .55 inch. 



Hah. California (H. Edwards). A very handsome species. 



Mesostenus gracilipes, n. sp. 



9. — Elongate, narrow, shining, uniformly fidvous ; tips of man- 

 dibles, antennte, excejit scape and tliird joint beneath, and extreme 

 base of posterior tibiiTQ black; antennse long and slender; meso- 

 thorax prominently trilobed, sparsely punctured; metathorax ob- 

 liquely depressed behind, rugulose, with an angulate carina at 

 base, anterior to which the surface is smooth and shining ; wings 

 fuscous, areolet long and very narroAv; legs long and very slen- 

 der, especially the posterior pair, the trochanters of which are half 

 the lengtli of the femora, the posterior trochanter about double 

 the length of the anterior one; abdomen polished, first segment 

 long, slightly swollen at tip, base of seconil segment consic^erabh' 




Sr.O PlUlCKKDlNG.S OF TIIK ACADEMY OP [1878. 



coiilrnc'k'd ; ovipositor vt-rv I<>ii^4, iicnVly twice tlie length of l)o<ly. 

 Leiigtii .40 iiifli, of ovipositor .'.HI inch. 

 Hub. ('jilifornia (11. Edwards). 



Ophion costale, n. sp. 



9 Fulvo-forruginous, shinii)g; face hroad, the middle closely 



piinctiirod, .subtuberculatc iininediately beneath base of antenna"; 

 clypcns strongly jjunctured, tips truncate, lateral sutures and lips 

 of mandibles l)]ack; cheeks swollen; antenna3 shorter tlian usual, 

 reaeliing about to tip of second abdominal segment; mesothorax 

 convex, polished; scutellum ver}' convex; metathorax confluently 

 punctured, without transverse carina, sutures of thorax narrowly 

 black; wings sul)hyaline, stained with yellowish at base and with 

 fuscous along apical costal margin, darkest at ti[) of marginal 

 cell ; l)asal margin of third and fourth abdominal segments and 

 an oblique mark on sides of second segment, black. Length .53 

 inch. 



Hah. Klamath Co., California (TI. Edwards). Readily distin- 

 guished from all the other species known to me b}' the ornamenta- 

 tion of the wings. 

 Nototrachys californicus, n. ?p. 



9. — Black; orbits cntirel3', broad beneath antennae, sides of 

 clypeus, mandibles, palpi, short stripe on each side of mesothorax, 

 tegula?, spot before, another beneath, and spot on scutellum, yel- 

 low, sometimes shading into sanguineous; antennre brown, scape 

 beneath paler; mesothorax transversely rugose; metathorax 

 reticulated, densely silver3'-sericeous at the sides and at apex ; 

 wings hyaline, iridescent ; legs honey -yelloAv, four anterior coxne 

 and tlieir tibiii? and tarsi more or less yellow; posterior legs 

 brown-ferruginous, coxjxi black, tips of femora and of tibi« black- 

 ish, tarsi fuscous, i)ale at base of joints 1 and 2; abdomen black, 

 shining, second, third, and fourth segments more or less brown- 

 ferruginous. Length ..32 inch. 



Hab. San Diego, California (Crotch). 



Exochilum occidentale, n. sp. 



9.— Black, head and thorax clothed with short black pubes- 

 cence, coarseh^ punctured; orbits, broad on each side of antennae, 

 and interrupted behind summit of 63-68, stripe down middle of 

 face, clj'peus, labrum, upper margin of mandibles, and palpi, 3'el- 

 low; antennae fulvous, scape black; teguhe and scutellum yellow- 




18*78.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 367 



ish ; spot on each side of pleura posteriorly, and on flanks of 

 metathorax ferruginous; metft-tliorax coarsely reticulated, subcon- 

 cave ; wings fusco-liyaline, stained with yellowish, stigma and 

 costal nerve honey-yellow ; legs yellow, all the cox?e, apical half 

 of posterior femora and apical third of their tibiffi, black; abdo- 

 men honey-yellow, polished, basal two-thirds of upper edge of 

 second segment, stripe on each side of fourth segment, and the 

 following segments entirel}' black. Length .70 inch. 



Hah. Oregon (H. Edwards). This also occurs in Colorado. 



Anomalon Edwardsii, n. sp. 



9. — Ferruginous, head and thorax clothed with a short pale 

 sericeous pubescence; head short, broad, yellow, vertex, occiput, 

 and posterior margin of cheeks black, upper part of cheeks tinged 

 with ferruginous; a transverse prominence immediately beneajLh 

 insertion of antennae; antennte two-thirds the length of body, 

 fulvous, darker above, first, second, and base of third joints black 

 above and yellow beneath; three broad stripes on mesothorax, 

 the lateral ones confluent behind, prothorax anteriorly, pleura, 

 except anterior margin, and base of metathorax, black; metatho- 

 rax very coarsel3' reticulated ; wings fusco-hyaline, darker beyond 

 stigma whicii is fulvous, discoidal cell very slightly narrowed at 

 base ; four anterior legs honey-yellow, tibiiie and tarsi paler; poste- 

 rior legs black, second trochanter and extreme base of femora fer- 

 rug-inous, basal half of tibire and the tarsi, except terminal joint, 

 yellow, tarsi thickened, the first joint nearly three times longer than 

 second; abdomen shining, ferruginous, apex of first broad, upper 

 margin of second, and the fifth and sixth segments entirely black, 

 sides of third and fourth varied with fuscous. Length .85 inch. 



Hab. Yancouvcr's Island (Henry Edwards). 



Anomalon californicum, n. sp. 



. 9. — Ferruginous, head and thorax clothed with short brownish 

 pubescence; face, orbits, and clypeus yellow, spot inclosing ocelli 

 black ; antennae short, stout, about half the length of bodj', scape 

 yellow beneath; sutures of thorax narrowly black ; mesothorax 

 shining, sparsely punctured; scutellum gibbous, slightl}^ furrowed 

 down the middle; metathorax coarsely reticulated, depressed and 

 subconcave above ; wings tinged with yellowish-fuscous, darker 

 at tips, discoidal cell not narrowed at base; four anterior legs 

 hone3'-yellow, posterior pair fulvous, with tips of femora'and of 




368 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADKMY OF [1878. 



tibijc black, tarsi yellow, thickened, first joint twice the length of 

 second ; abdomen sliining, basal llalf of npi)cr edge of second 

 segment and nppcr edge of fiftli and sixth segments black, lower 

 n)argin of apical segments tinged with l)hickish. Ijcngth .Co inch. 

 Hnh. California (II. Edwards). 



Anomalon verbosum, n. sp. 



% 9 • — iUack; liead large, face narrowed beneath ; nariow orliilnl 

 line on each side of fiice, dot at summit of eyes, spot l)eneath eyes 

 and mandibles except tips, ^'dlowish ; antennic short, about as 

 long as head and thorax together, entirely black ; thorax imma- 

 culate; ifietathorax reticulated, grooved down the middle; wings 

 fusco-h^-aline, discoidal cell very much contracted at base ; legs 

 rufo-ferruglnous, coxre and troclianters black, posterior tibise 

 fuscous in 9, their tarsi blackish in 9 with basal joint slightly 

 thickened, and in % with second and third joints ferruginous and 

 basal joint dilated ; abdomen 3'ellowish-ferruginous, upper edge 

 of second segment and the fifth and following segments black, 

 sometimes on!}- the apex of fifth segment is black. Length .40 

 inch. 



Hah. California (II. Edwards). 



Anomalon maceratum, n sp. 



% . — Black ; head and thoraxT'lothed with short pale pubescence; 

 head not wider tlian tliorax. cheeks [irominent; oi-bits, face, cly- 

 peus, labrum, mandibles except tips, palpi and scape beneath, 

 yellow; antennae about half the length of body ; posterior middle 

 of niesothorax depressed and transversel}' rugose; prothorax and 

 pleura more or less, longitudinally striated ; scutellum rugose, 

 with two reddish spots at tip ; metathorax coarsely reticulated, 

 sulcate down the middle ; tegulre fulvous ; wings fusco-h^-aline, 

 discoidal cell slightly narrowed at base ; four anterior legs 3'ellow, 

 their femora honey -yellow, posterior legs ferruginous, base of 

 coxffi and apex of tibiae black, tarsi 3-ellow, slightl}' thickened, 

 first joint about twice as long as second ; abdomen long, slender, 

 fulvo-ferruginous, upper edge of second and the two apical seg- 

 ments black. Length .60 inch. 



Hah. California (H. Edwards). 



Anomalon vivum, n. sp. 



9. — Ferruginous; vertex, covering ocelli and occiput, black; 

 face, orbits, clj-peus and mandibles 3"ellow ; antenuiB about half 




18*78.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 369 



the length of bod}^, black, brown beneath, scape .yellow beneath ; 

 prothorax in front and plenra beneath Mack ; metathorax reticu- 

 lated, deeply silicate down the middle, with a short arcuated 

 carina on each side near base; Avings j^ellowish-hjaline, discoidal 

 cell slightly narrowed at base ; tips of posterior tibipe dusk}', their 

 tarsi slender, yellowish ; abdomen shining, with upper edge of 

 second and following segments narrowly black. Length .50 inch. 

 Hah. Oregon (H. Edwards). 



Campoplex major, n. sp. 



9. — Black, oi)aque, clothed witli short Avhitish pubescence, 

 more dense on face and metathorax ; mandibles, palpi and tegula; 

 lemon-3-ellow ; a tuft of long pale pubescence on each side of 

 scutellum ; middle of metathorax longitudinally concave and 

 transversely aciculated ; wings hyaline, tinged with 3'ellovvish, a 

 little smoky at tips, areolet large, rhomboidal ; anterior legs ex- 

 cept base of coxae and trochanters and femora beneath, interme- 

 diate trochanters and femora above, their tibiae and tarsi entirely, 

 and a stripe on outer side of posterior tibiae, lemon-yellow ; four 

 anterior ungues black ; abdomen shining, ferruginous, base of first 

 segment, its apex above, upper surface of second segment and 

 base of third, black. Length .75 inch. 



Hah. Yancouver's Island (H. Edwards). A fine large species. 



Limneria californica, n. sp. 



% . — Black, shining; mandibles, palpi, scape beneath, and tegulae 

 yellow ; flagellum testaceous beneath towards the tip ; metathorax 

 transversel}' rugulose beiiind; wings hyaline, iridescent, areolet 

 small, petiolated ; legs fulvo-ferruginous, four anterior coxae, and 

 all the trochanters yellow, base of posterior tibiae and of their 

 tarsi yellowish, posterior coxae and base of their trochanters 

 black ; narrow apical margin of second abdominal segment and 

 apical half of third ferruginous. Length .30 inch. 



Hah. San Biego, California (Crotch). 



Mesochorus iridescens, n. sp. 



9. — Luteo-testaceous, polished ; tips of mandibles, spot behind 

 antenna:^, back of head, three broad stripes on mesothorax, broad 

 band at base of metathorax, pleura beneath, and first abdominal 

 segment except tip, black ; antennae long and slender, fuscous, 

 paler at base, scape beneath luteous ; teguhe white ; wings l>yaline, 

 beautifully iridescent ; legs pale, tips of posterior tibiae and of 




370 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACAUEMY OF [1878. 



tliL'ir tarsi lilackisli ; sides of second al)d(>iiiinal se<rnient and the 

 apical segtneiils iiioie ov less stained with liiseoiis. Length .-23 

 inch. 



Jliib. California (IJelirens). 

 PristomeruB pacificus, n. pp. 



9. — IJlack ; orbits and clypeus ferrnginous, niandililes yellow, 

 antcnnie ejitiicly black ; tegulu' yellow ; wings hyaline, iridescent; 

 legs, including coxa?, ferruginous, anterior pair paler, posterior 

 trochanters, tii)s of their til)ia' and their tarsi more ov less dusk}', 

 femoral tooth robust ; abdomen polished, ferruginous, first seg- 

 ment except apical mai'gin, basal two-thirds of second, and base 

 of remaining segments more or less black ; ovipositor thiee-fourths 

 the length of abdomen. Length ..'JU iiich. 



Nab. California (II. Edwards). 

 Ezetastes maurus, n. sp. 



9. — Entirely black, shining, robust; head and thorax clothed 

 with short black pubescence; antennae tinged with iirown ; meso- 

 thorax strongly and rather closely' i)unctured ; scutellnm gibbous, 

 coarscl}' punctured ; metathorax coarsely rugose, opaque ; wings 

 dark fuscous, paler towards tii)s, violaceous ; abdomen short, 

 robust, polished, impunctured. Length .4.5 inch. 



Hab. California (II. Edwards). 



Exetastes zelotypus, n. .<:p. 



S 9. — Black, shining; thorax closch^ and finely i)unctured, 

 metathorax finely rugose ; wings fuliginous, strongly' violaceous ; 

 tips of anterior femora and tibite and posterior femora 9, four 

 anterior femora except base, their tibiae and tarsi entirely, poste- 

 rior femora and base of their tibiae %, ferruginous; abdomen 

 entireh^ ferruginous, polished, elongate, and rather slender at 

 base. Length .50 inch. 



Hab. San Diego, California (Crotch). 



Grotea californica, n. ?p. 



9 — Head and thorax yellow, polished, impunctured ; occiput, 

 middle of vertex, three stripes on mesothorax, stripe on pleura 

 and base of metathorax fulvo-ferruginous ; two fuscous spots be- 

 hind scape ; antennae fulvous, scape dusky above (joints 1(1 and 

 following wanting); sutures of thorax and a wedge-shaped mark 

 on sides of pleura black ; wings pale fuliginous, a small daik cloud 

 in apical margin ; legs yellow, the femora and posterior legs more 




18T8.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 371 



or less varied with fulvous ; abdomen fulvo-feri'uginous, tlie first 

 segment, excejit a stripe above and spot at tip above, and also 

 spot on each side of all the segments becoming larger on apical 

 segments, yellow. Length .10 inch. 

 Hah. California (H. Edwards). 



Mesoleptus innozius, n. tp. 



% . — Hone3- -yellow ; face, clypeus, mandibles, except tips and 

 palpi, teguloe, spot before and spot beneath, pale 3'ellow ; antennae 

 long and slender, dusk^' at extreme tips; large spot on pleura 

 beneath, and sides and tips of metathorax more or less black ; 

 wings hyaline, iridescent, stigma luteous. areolet small, petiolated ; 

 legs long and slender, four anterior coxte and trochanters pale 

 yellow ; abdomen dark honey-3'ellow or fulvous, base of first seg- 

 ment black, apical segments more or less varied with dusky ; first 

 segment straight, not slender at base and slightl}' dilated to apex, 

 lateral tubercles large and prominent. Length .30 inch. 

 Eab. Lake Quesnel, British Columbia (Crotch). 



Mesoleius Stretchii, n. pp. 



9. — Opaque black; head rather swollen behind the ej'es ; c:\y- 

 pens, mandibles except tips and scape beneath luteous; sides of 

 mesothorax tinged with dull ferruginous; metathorax with an 

 inclosed elongate central area; tegulne yellowish white; wings 

 h3'alinc, iridescent, sligma luteous, areolet small, triangular, sub- 

 petiolated ; legs slender, and with coxa?, pale ferruginous, four 

 anterior coxa^ beneath and their trochanters 3'ellow; tips of four 

 anterior tarsi and posterior i)air more or less fuscous ; abdomen 

 subpetiolated, fineh* and densely sculptured, depressed at base, 

 first segment ver3' slightlv curved, graduall3' dilated to tip which 

 is broad, upper surface flat and CA^en, the lateral margin finclj^ 

 carinate, sides of apex yellow ; lateral margin, broad at tip and 

 ver3- narrow apical margin of all the segments — sometimes indis- 

 tinct on second and third, pale yellow; second and third segments 

 sometimes tinged with brown. Length .27 inch. 

 Hah. California (Stretch). 



Mesoleius '? aleutianus, n. sp. 



% — Slender, black, head and thorax with short pale pubes- 

 cence ; head short, subbuccate ; antenna3 long, curved at tip, meta- 

 thorax flat and declivous behind, with carinate sides; scutellum 

 longitudinally compressed, convex above; metathorax roughened, 




372 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1878. 



subsulcatc on eacli side; of ini(Mle, spiracles small, eiiciilar; tcfjulje 

 ■whitish ; wings hyaline, Ijeantifuliy iridescent, stigma rather large, 

 fuscons, areolet 5-angnlar, with thickene<l ncrvnres; legs long and 

 very slender, ferruginous, coxie and trochanters hhick.tips of pos- 

 terior femora, their tiljiai and tarsi more or less dusky; abdomen 

 subsessile, slightl}' widened to tip, spiracles i)laced a little l»efore 

 tlic middle. Length .30 inch. ' 



llaJ). Aleutian Islands (II. Kd wards). 



Mesoleius ? laetus, n. sp. 



%. — IJlack ; fiice, clypeus, mandibles except tips, palpi, scape 

 beneath, spot on each side of mesothorax in front divided by im- 

 pressed line, spot behind anterior coxae, tegula?, short line beneatli, 

 four anterior coxoe, trochanters, femora and tibiae, posterior tro- 

 chanters, extreme base of tiieir femora, basal two-thirds .of their 

 tibijii, and abdomen except two apical segments, all pale yellow ; 

 apex of flagellum fulvous beneatli ; wings yellowish hyaline, no 

 areolet; legs slender, all the tibiiU honey -vcllow, claws sim[)le; 

 abdomen sul)[)etiolated, subclavate, being gradually In'oadcr to 

 tip, the first and fourth and fifth segments often stained with ful- 

 vous. Length .35 incli. 



Hah. Vancouver's Island (11. Edwards). 

 MesoleiusT rubiginosus, n. sp. 



%. — Fulvous; face, clypeus, mandibles except tips (which are 

 black), palpi, spot on scape beneath, teguhe, short line beneath, 

 scutellum, i)leura beneath, four anterior coxae*nd trochanters, and 

 middle of tarsi pale yellow ; tips of antennae and sutures of thorax 

 black ; wings dusky, no areolet ; base of posterior tibia^ sometimes 

 pale, claws simple ; abdomen subpetiolate, subclavate. Length .40 

 inch. 



Hab. California (H. Edwards). 



Tryphon tejonicus, n. sp. 



%. — Ulack, shining, clothed with a short, pale sericeous pubes- 

 cence; head broad, cl^'peus, anterior margin of tegulae and legs 

 except coxic, ferruginous ; mesothorax broad, gibbous, fineh' punc- 

 tured; scutellum ver^' abrupt posteriori}', depressed above and 

 carinate laterally ; metathorax short, witii strongly elevated car- 

 inae; wings hyaline, nervures and stigma black, areolet obliquely 

 triangular, subpetiolated ; legs short and robust, especially the 

 femora, claws simple ; abdomen short, broad towards apex, sessile, 




1878.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 373 



densely sculptured, opaque ; first segment broad, ■with two strongly 

 elevated longitudinal carinas on middle extending to the tip. 

 Length .25 inch. 



Hah. Fort Tejon, California (Crotch). 



Tryphon lusorius, n. sp. 



% . — Black, rather shining, clothed with a short pale sericeous 

 pubescence ; apex of clypeus, mandibles and tegulas yellow ; an- 

 tennas pale beneath at tip ; wings lu'aline, iridescent, stigma fus- 

 cous, pale at base, areolet small, rhomboidal, petiolated ; four an- 

 terior legs yellow, coxte, trochanters and femora beneath black ; 

 posterior femora robust, ferruginous, black at base beneath and at 

 extreme tip, cox», trochanters, tibine and tarsi black or fuscons, 

 the tibiae above with a j'ellow stripe extending from base nearly 

 to tip, claws simple ; abdomen subclavate, ferruginous, the first 

 segment entirely, second except apex, and base more or less of 

 remaining segments black: first segment slightly narrowed at 

 base, not carinate above. Length .25 inch. 



Hah. California (H. Edwards). 

 Tryphon californious, n. sp. 



% 9. — Black, shining, cl3-peus, mandibles, palpi and tegulre yel- 

 low; head rather broad ; face with an elevated, flattened, stronglj^ 

 punctured space on the middle ; metathorax with two approximate 

 longitudinal carinoe on disk, two on each side and a circular one 

 at tip; scutellum convex, deeply excavated at base; wings hya- 

 line, areolet small, oblique, petiolated ; legs robust, fulvo-ferrugi- 

 nous, coxjE and trochanters black, four anterior tibite and tarsi 

 yellow, tips of posterior femora, their tibiai and tarsi more or less 

 fuscous or black ; abdomen ferruginous or fulvous, sometimes 

 fusco-ferruginous, in 9 the first segment only is black with apical 

 margin ferruginous, in % the first and often more or less of the 

 base of second and third segments black ; first segment at base 

 above sub-bicarinate. Length .20 inch. 



Hah. San Diego, California (Crotch). 



Erromenus obscurellus, n. sp. 



9, — Black, shining; head broad; face broad and flattened, 

 densely sculptured ; spot on mandibles and palpi dull testaceous; 

 mesotliorax minutelj' i)unctured ; scutellum convex; metathorax 

 with strongly elevated lines; wings hyaline, areolet obliqu?, sub- 

 petiolated ; legs subrobust, black, lips of femora, a line on poste- 




3V4 PROCEEDIN(!S OF THE ACADEMY OF [187S. 



rior pair above, iiiul all liio tiliiit' and tarsi ferruginous, lijjs of poste- 

 rior tibiie and tarsi dusky ; claws pectinated ; abdomen subsessile, 

 subconipressed at tip, first segment broad at tip, and strongly nar- 

 rowed Ijeliind the tul)ercles, apex of second and tlic tiiird und 

 following segments more or less ferruginous. Lcnglh .30 inch. 

 Hal). California (11. Edwards). 



Ctenistes californicus, n. sp. 



%,. — Black, clothed with a short fine pale pul)escence; face, 

 el^pous, mandibles, i)ali)i, lower part of cheeks, scape beneath, 

 sides of collar, toguhe, spot before, another beneath, spot on an- 

 terior margin of pleura, tip of scutellum, lateral a|>ical margin, 

 post-scutellum, four anterior coxoe and the trochanters, and apical 

 margin of second and following segments of abdomen, all white; 

 flagellum luteous beneath ; broad stripe on each side of mesothorax, 

 scutellum, and pleura ferruginous; wings hyaline, iridescent, 

 areolet present; legs fulvous, tips of posterior femora, their tibijc 

 and tarsi black ; claws pectinate ; abdomen subclavate, sessile, 

 the white bands broader on apical segments. Length .22 inch. 



Hah. California (H. Edwards). A handsomely marked species. 

 Exochus brunnipes, n. sp. 



9 Small, black, smooth, and polished, impunctured; antennsB 



brown ; metathorax with conical central area ; tegulte pale brown- 

 ish ; wings hyaline, areolet present ; legs short, robust, brownish- 

 fulvous, femora very much swollen, coxa?, trochanters and femora 

 beneath black, posterior tibitti and tarsi fuscous, paler at base ; 

 alxlomen above perfectly smooth, first segment with plain upper 

 surface. Length .22 inch. 



Hab. Nevada (Putnam). 



Bassus maculifrons, Cresson (Proc. Ent. Soc, Phila., iv. p. 272). 



9. — Black; sides of face, spot on middle, clypeus, mandibles 

 hooked-marked on each side of mesothorax, broad stripe on scutel- 

 lum, post-scutellum, teguloe, s[)ot liufore, another Iwneath, and 

 transverse spot on each side at tip of second and following seg- 

 ments white; wings hyaline, iridescent, areolet wanting; legs 

 I'ulvous, posterior tarsi Ijlack ; abdomen shining, the first and base 

 of second segments roughly sculptured and opaque, no trans- 

 versely impressed lines. Length .34 inch. 



% . — All of head beneatii antennae, anterior orbits, lower part of 

 cheeks, scape beneatii, anterior margin of pleura, transverse line 




1878.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 375 



on each side, and four anterior coxfe and trochanters, white or 

 jellowish-white ; otherwise marked as in 9 , except that tlie mark 

 before tegulse is large and cuneiform, and the lateral spots on abdo- 

 men are sometimes connected by a narrow line on apical margin 

 of tlie segments. Lengtli .27 inch. 



Hah. California (Behrens, 9 ; H. Edwards, %). This, pretty 

 species occurs also in Colorado. 



Bassus cinctulus, n. sp. 



% 9 — Black; face, anterior orbits, lower part of ciioeks, ch'- 

 peus, mandibles except tips, scape beneath, two longitudinal 

 stripes on mesothorax, the lateral margin before tegulae, broad 

 stripe on scutellum, postscutellnm, tegulfe, spot before, short line 

 beneath, anterior margin of pleura, trifurcate mark beneath, 

 sutural line between pleura and metathorax, narrow line on tip 

 of first segment of abdomen not reaching the side, rather broad 

 band at tip of second, third, and fourth segments, faid spot on 

 each side at base of fourth segment, all wdiite ; wings hyaline, 

 areolet wanting; legs fulvous, four anterior coxye, tips of poste- 

 rior pair, all the trochanters, four anterior legs in front, and broad 

 annulus on posterior tibiiB white; extreme base and apical third 



of posterior tibise black, their tarsi ; base of abdomen 



opaque, punctured, apex shining, a transverse impressed line 

 on second and tliird segments. Length .22 in^h. 



Hah. California (H. Edwards). Easily recognized l)y the two 

 distant white stripes on mesothorax and white bands on abdomen. 



Bassus decoratus, n. sp. 



% . — Black ; face, anterior orbits, lower parts of cheeks, clypeus, 

 mandibles, palpi, scape beneath, two stripes on mesothorax al)- 

 brevintcd beliind and confluent anteriorly' with broad lateral mar- 

 gin, sides of scutellum, postscutellnm witli line on each side ex- 

 tending to base of wings, narrow anterior margin of pleura, 

 transverse line on each side, sutural line Ijetween pleura and me- 

 tathorax, tegulfe, spot before and anotlier beneath, all pale yellow ; 

 wings hyaline, areolet present ; legs pale fulvous, all the coxa; 

 and trochanters white, posterior coxoe black at l)ase beneath, pos- 

 terior tarsi black; abdomen shining, with first and base of second 

 segments rougli and dull, no transverse impressed lines; apical 

 third of second segment, the tliird and apical half of f()ui>lh ful- 

 vous ; a yellowish band at base of third segment interrupted 




376 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1878. 



inediiilly, basal margin of fourth scgniciil narrowly pale 3C'llow, 

 Itroadly inar^nned lit'liiiid with lilacic. Length .23 inch. 

 lldb. California (11. Edwards) 



BasBUB pacificus, n. sp. 



% ?. — Black ; spot on middle of face, clypeiis, mandibles, palpi, 

 broad lateral margin of mesotliorax hooked in front, tegula', spot 

 before and one beneath, pale yellowish; wings hyaline, iridescent, 

 areolet wanting ; four anterior coxa? except base, their trochanters 

 and tips of posterior coxfc white, remainder of coxre black, femora, 

 tibias and four anterior tarsi fulvous, posterior tarsi blackish; 

 abdomen 9 subcompressed at tip and shining, no transverse im- 

 pressed lines, first and second segments roughly sculptured, apex 

 of second, the third, and more or less of fourth segments ferru- 

 ginous. Length .23-.25 inch. 



Hab. California, 9 ; Vancouver's Island, % (If. Edwards). 



MetopiuB Edwardsii, n. sp. 



%. — Short, robust, black, opaque, roughly sculptured; face, 

 anterior orbits, labrum, palj)!, scape beneath, upi)er margin of 

 prothorax, narrow apical margin of scutellum, spot on each side 

 of metathorax, spot at tip of four anterior coxre, all the trochan- 

 ters, four anterior femora in front, base and apex of posterior pair, 

 all the tibiiie, four anterior tarsi, and base of posterior pair, first 

 abdominal segment^except base, spot on each side of second seg- 

 ment at tip and apical margin of remaining segments broader on 

 third and fourth, all yellowish-white ; thorax closely and strongly 

 punctured ; wings subh^'aline, tinged with fuscous especially along 

 costa; posterior femora swollen ; first segment pyramidal in pro- 

 file and bituberculate on disk, second and following segments 

 coarsely longitudinally rugose, much more rough on second and 

 third. Length .50 inch, 



Hab. Washington Territory (Henry Edwards). 



Coleocentrus occidentalis, n. sp. 



9. — Black; scape beneath and palpi pale; tegulai fulvous; 

 wings yellow-hyaline, with a violaceous reflection, stigma pale 

 brown with yellow spot at base, iiervures blackish ; legs brownish 

 fulvous, anterior pair in front and intermediate tibias in front and 

 tarsi yellow, coxae dark, black at base ; abdomen dark brownish- 

 fulvous, first segment except ti^) and the two or three apical seg- 




1878.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 377 



raents above, lilaok ; ovipositor as long as bodj'. Length .85 

 inch. 



Hab. Vancouver's Island (H. Edwards). 

 Ephialtes thoracicus, n. sp. 



9. — Black; tip of elypeus, mandibles, and scape beneath, 

 brown ; face with short pale pubescence, elypeus with long pale 

 hairs ; palpi whitish ; mesothorax, scutellnm, pleura, and flanks 

 of metatiiorajc ferruginous ; middle lobe of mesothorax gibbous, 

 ver3' prominent, smooth ; raetathorax finely rugulose, clothed with 

 short pale pubescence ; lower margin of prothorax and tegulae 

 white ; wings h3'aline, iridescent, areolet small, triangular, sub- 

 petiolated ; legs very slender, the anterior pair entirel}', middle 

 trochanters, femora, and tibiae, pale yellow, middle coxae, honey- 

 yellow, pale beneath, their tarsi blackish, posterior coxae, tro- 

 chanters beneath and femora bright ferruginous, their trochanters 

 above, tibiae and tarsi black; abdomen long, narrow, black, imma- 

 culate, finely sculptured ; ovipositor as long as the bodj'.. Length 

 .50 inch. 



Hah. Vancouver's Island (H. Edwards). 



Pimpla Behrensii, n. sp. 



'h 9 . — Black ; palpi, tegulae and spot in front white ; mesothorax, 

 scutellum, and pleura shining, the former finely and sparsely 

 punctured ; wings hj-aline, iridescent ; legs fulvous, anterior pair 

 pale in front, coxae black, middle tibiie with whitish annulus ; 

 posterior tibiae black, with broad white annulus towards base, 

 their tarsi black more or less white at base of all the joints ; abdo- 

 men strongl}' punctured and finely pubescent, apical margin of 

 the segments narrowly- pale or ferruginous, sides of the segments 

 witii ferruginous spot, or more or less broadly margined with fer- 

 riginous ; ovipositor of 9 short. Length .35-.40 inch. 



Hah. California (Behrens). A very common species. 



Lampronota gelida, n. sp. 



B . — Black, clothed with short pale pubescence ; face yellow, 

 with three longitudinal black stripes, sometimes broken into spots; 

 elypeus 3-ellow, with basal margin or spot on each side black; 

 mandibles except tips, and palpi, j-ellow; tegulae and spot before 

 and sometimes a spot on each side of mesothorax in front, 3'ellow; 

 metathorax densely punctured ; wings hyaline, more or less finged 

 with yellowish, tegulte and basal uervures pale, areolet small, 

 " 25 




378 PROCEEDINGS OF TflE ACADKMY OF [187S. 



subrlKinihoidal, petiolated ; U'j^h fulvous, four anlcrior coxiu more 

 or less benciith, their troelianters and line on their femora Ijeneath, 

 yellow ; four anterior coxaj at hase, posterior i)air, and tiie basal 

 trochanters black, posterior tarsi blackish ; abdomen slender, fer- 

 ruginous, first segment, except tip and sometimes the two or three 

 apical segments, black. Length .45 inch. 



Hah. Lake Lahache, British Columbia (Crotch j. 



Lampronota vivid a, n. sp. 



%. — Black, clothed with a short pale pu1)escence ; face, anterior 

 orbits not reaching summit of eyes, clypeus, mandildes except 

 tips, palpi, scape beneath, line on anterior lateral margin of meso- 

 thorax dilated and hooked in front, tegulje, spot before and one 

 beneath, pale yellow ; tip of scutellum pale ; wings pale jellowish 

 h3'aline, areolet subrhomboidal, petiolated; legs fulvous, four 

 anterior coxse and trochanters and their femora and tibiaj in front 

 pale yellow: base of posterior cox.ie more or less black, their 

 tarsi fuscous; abdomen yellowish fulvous, first segment except 

 apical margin, black. Length .45 inch. 



Eah. Vancouver's Island (H. Edwards). 

 Lampronota segnis, n. sp. 



%. — Small, black; face, anterior orbits, lower part of cheeks, 

 clypeus, mandibles, palpi, scape beneath, two slender stripes on 

 mesothorax, confluent in front with broad lateral margin, collar, 

 scutellum, large mark on each side of pleura, tegulse, spot before 

 and one beneath, and four anterior coxae and trochanters, all yel- 

 lowish-white ; spot on flanks of metathorax, i-emainder of legs, 

 except 'tips of tarsi which are dusk}', and apical margin of abdo- 

 minal segments fulvous ; wings hyaline, beautifully iridescent, 

 areolet subtriangular, not petiolated. Length .25 inch. 



Hah. Vancouver's Island (H, Edwards). A very prettily 

 marked species. 



Lampronota hilaris, n . sp. 



9 . — Small, black ; face and scape beneath fulvous, the orbits 

 slightl}' interrupted beliind summit of e3-es and broad beneath, 

 clj'peus and spot on mandibles white ; mesothorax, scutellum, 

 prothorax, sides of pleura, and flanks of metathorax fulvous; 

 two slender stripes on mesothorax, confluent in front with broad 

 lateral margins, spot on scutellum, collar, margins of prothorax, 

 lower margin of pleura, and tegulte white ; wings hyaline, areolet 




1878.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHTLADELriH A. 319 



small, subpetiolatetl ; legs fulvous, four anterior coxne white, pos- 

 terior tibiae more or less, and tarsi dusk}-; abdomen subclavate, 

 apical margins of segments pale fulvous, broader on terminal 

 segments ; ovipositor as long as the bod}-. Length .25 inch. 

 Hah. Wilmington, California (Crotch). 



Lampronota Edwardsii, n. sp. 



9. — Entirely fulvo- ferruginous; antennae except scape, spot 

 beneath wings, and lower margin of metathorax black; mesotho- 

 rax finely punctured ; metathorax confluently punctured, with a 

 sinuate carina near apex; wings dark.^'ellow-hyaline, stigma and 

 basal nervures fulvous, areolet subrhomboidal, petiolated ; abdo- 

 men shining, first segment sparsel}- punctured ; ovipositor as long 

 as the body. Length .50 inch. 



Eab. Vancouver's Island (Henry Edwards). 



Lampronota 1 lugubris, n. sp. 



9. — Deep black, shining; head small, with flattened cheeks; 

 antennae long and very slender, third joint very long, and one-tliird 

 longer than fourth; mesothorax prominently trilobate; metathorax 

 opaque, with four ill-defined longitudinal elevated lines, the two 

 midille ones approximate; wings smoky, nervures and stigma 

 black, no areolet ; legs rather slender, ferruginous, coxae and 

 trochanters black, claws simple ; abdomen sessile, depressed, 

 opaque at base, shining at tip, apical margins of third and follow- 

 ing segments narrowly dull ferruginous; ovipositor as long as 

 the bod}'. Length .42 inch. 



Hah. Lake Quesnel, British Columbia (Crotch). 



Phytodietus obscurellus, n. sp. 



9 Dull black, clothed with a very short, pale, sericeous pubes- 

 cence; spot beneath eyes, dot on each side of ocelli, short line on 

 each side of base of antennae, clypeus, mandibles, palpi, lateral 

 anterior margin of mesothorax, tegulae, dot before and spot beneath 

 white; middle of metathorax longitudinally rugose ; wings hya- 

 line, iridescent, stigma black; legs, including coxa^, fulvo-ferrugi- 

 nous, posterior tibiae towards tip and their tarsi dusky ; abdomen 

 shining, apical margin of second and third segments narrowly 

 pale; ovipositor short. Length .30 inch. 



Hab. California (H. Edwards). 




380 PROCEEDINOS OF THE ACADf:MY OF [1878. 



Fhytodietus californicus, n. ^p. 



9.— ISinall, shining black ; dot on eacli side of ocelli, cl3''peus, 

 mandibles exce])L tips, palpi, teguhe and line in front, white; 

 pleura beneath and Hanks of metathorax fidvous ; metathorax 

 smooth, with a medial longitudinal groove; wings liyaline, beau- 

 tifully iridescent, stigma pale; legs, with coxje, pale fulvous, an- 

 terior coxre, four anterior troclianters, knees, and apical posterior 

 trochanter white, tips of their tibi{\; and the tarsi dusky; abdo- 

 men shining, apical margin of segments five and six more or less 

 white; ovipositor about half the length of abdomen. Length .21 

 inch. . 



llah. California (Bchrens). 



Xorides occidentalis, n. sp. 



9. — Black; anterior orbits not reaching summit of eyes, dot 

 on mandibles, palpi, line on each side of collar before anterior 

 coxae, tegulse and spot beneath posterior wings white; scape be- 

 neath reddish ; middle of mesothorax depressed and transversely 

 wrinkled; metathorax finely transversely sculptured above; wings 

 hyaline, nervures and stigma black; legs, with coxae, fulvo-ferru- 

 ginoiis, line on middle tibiae, their tarsi, tips of posterior femora, 

 and their tibiae and tarsi entirely black; abdomen black, immacu- 

 late; ovipositor about as long as the body. Length .50-. 10 inch. 



Hah. Vancouver's Island (H. Edwards). 



Poemeria insularis, n. sp. 



9. — Black; anterior orbits, broad upper margin of prothorax, 

 tegulae and spot beneath, white ; cheeks brown ; mesothorax 

 strongly trilobate, the anterior lobe prominent, convex and 

 sparsel^^ punctured, two short pale lines on disk between the 

 wings; apex of scutellum and apex of metathorax dull fulvous; 

 metathorax strongly areolated ; wings hyaline; legs, with coxae, 

 fulvous, line on outer side of four anterior coxjb white, posterior 

 femora, tibiae and tarsi black ; abdomen opaque, middle of third 

 and following segments narrowly white at tip, first and base of 

 second segments finely scabrous ; ovipositor as long as the body. 

 Length .55 inch. 



IJoh. Vancouver's Island (H. Eldwards). 



Xylonomus californicus, n. sp. 



9. — Uniformly ferruginous; flagellum, except narrow white 

 annulus beyond middle, and sutures of thorax black ; sometimes 




IStS.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 381 



there is a narrow stripe on anterior lobe of mesothorax, and the 

 sutures between side lobes are black ; wings hyaline, stigma Ijlack 

 with whitish spot at base ; ovipositor longer than body. Length 

 .75-.85 inch. 



Hah. California (H. Edwards). Easil}^ distinguished from all 

 the other known species of this genus by the uniform ferruginous 

 color of the body. 



Echthrus? maurus, n. sp. 



9. — Robust, black, immaculate; head large, broad, Iniccate, 

 shining; antennge with short robust joints, the third much longer 

 than fourth; mesothorax and scutellum shining; metathorax 

 opaque ; wings smoky, areolet 5-angular, stigma black ; legs sub- 

 robust, tips of four anterior femora and all the tibiae pale, anterior 

 tibige not twisted nor inflated, claws simple ; abdomen subfusi- 

 forra, subsessile, first segment rapidly narrowed to base, a deep 

 elongate puncture on apical middle, base of second segment 

 densely and tinel}^ sculptured, opaque, remainder of abdomen 

 shining; ovipositor longer than abdomen. Length .50 inch. 



Hah. Yictoria, Vancouver's Island (Crotch). 




382 PROCEEDINGS OF TIIEACADKMY OF [1878. 



November 12. 



Tlic President, Dr. Kusciienberger, in tlie chair. 



Forty-eight persons present. 



A paper entitled " Description of a New Species of Dolabclla, 

 from tlie Gulf of California, with remarks on other rare or little 

 known species from the same locality," by K. E. C. Stearns, was 

 presented for publication. 



On Donax foHHor. — Prof. Leidy remarked that last July, while 

 on a visit to Cape May, N. J., he had oliserved on the beacii, near 

 low tide, east of the town, in many positions, vast numbers of the 

 little lamellibrancli mollusk, Donax fuxt^or^ of Say. It is well 

 named the "Digger" from the ease and rapidity with which it digs 

 its way into the sand b}' means of its powerful foot. It lives in 

 the surface sand, and is uncovered by the suif lireaking on shore, 

 but instantly buries itself again as the waves retire. In some 

 places the little Digger was sf) abundant, that large patciies re- 

 minded him " of barley grains lying on a malting floor," and tliey 

 lay so thick as actually' to interfere with one anotlier in the at- 

 tempt to bury themselves. As indicated by Mr. Say tliey present 

 two varieties; one in which the shell is white, tlie other in which 

 it is straw-colored. The shells generall}' exhibit an interior livid 

 tint in three rays, successively widening from before backward. 

 The rays are sometimes feeble or nearly obsolete ; the anterior 

 one is the most persistent, and the posterior one least so. The 

 siphons are long and aciivel}- protruded and retracted, looking in 

 their movements like wriggling worms. The Digger affords a 

 bountiful sui)ply of food to shore birds and fishes. 



As is so frequently the case with crowded communities, the 

 Digger is much infested with parasites. From lialf a dozen to 

 sever;d dozen Flukes are found in the liver, and a ciliated infuso- 

 rian in the branchial cavity. 



The Fluke is a minute larval Disfomum., with the following 

 characters: oval, obovate, clavate, or nine-pin like; head rounded 

 with a conspicuous nipple-like papilla on each side (which, when 

 seen in the lateral view of the animal, gives the appearance of a 

 beak to the head); tail obtuse, with a minute terminal pore. In- 

 tegument finel}' granulate, the granules arranged in alternating 

 transverse series. Oral acetabulum twice the size of the ventral, 

 which is central or nearly* so. Mouth large, unarmed; pharynx 

 minute, with a short, narrow gullet, ending in two pouch-like 

 stomachs, which extend to the ventral acetabulum. A distinct 

 body cavity, with no other contained organs than those just men- 




1878.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. ."^SS 



tioned. A small orifice occupies the mefliiin line nearly midway 

 between the acetabula ; but no appearance of generative appa- 

 ratus. Length of animal in tlie contracted state .24 mm. ; width 

 .15mm.; length in the elongated state to .3G and .42 mm.; width 

 .09 mm. Oral acetabulum .072 mm.; ventral acetabulum .042 mm. 

 The species may be named Distomum cornifrons. 



It is probable that this little Fluke undergoes its further de- 

 velopment in some of the shore birds or fishes which use the 

 Dunax foasor as food. 



The infusorian infesting the Digger is a Trichodina, resembling 

 that wliieh is found on the Hydra or fresh water polyp, and which 

 is also stated by Stein to live on the gills of the Pike and the fins 

 of the Stickleback. Tiie Trichodine is bell-shaped, with a wreath 

 of cils near the top, and a circle of cils at the margin beneath. 

 It is .048 mm. broad and from .035 to .036 mm. high. Though 

 living on a marine mollusk, it too nearly resembles the Trichodina 

 pediculuH of fresh-water animals for him to think of giving it 

 another name. 



Dimorphism in Mitchella repens. — Mr. Thomas Meehan re- 

 ferred to note published in the Proceedings many years ago, in 

 regard to dimorphic flowers in Mitchella repens^ and suggesting 

 that the plant was practically^ dioecious. Three years ago he found 

 a variety on the Wissahickon with snow-white l)erries ; the plant, 

 judging by the size of the patch, having been growing and bear- 

 ing there man}' years. Some of this was removed to his garden, 

 where, though it blossoms freely, it bears no berries, thus indica- 

 ting that it was fertilized when in its wild state by the pollen 

 from the normal scarlet berried forms in the vicinity, and that it 

 is incapable of making use of its own pollen. 



November 19. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Forty-two persons present. 



Notices of Gordius in the Cockroach and Leech Prof. Leidy 



exhibited a Gordius, which had been submitted to him by Dr. 

 Robert Meade Smith, of this city, with the note that "a servant 

 killed a large cockroach {Blatta orieutalis? } in the kitchen, and 

 threw it into a tumbler of water, and had tlien noticed, as she de- 

 scribed it, one of its legs growing and swimming off"." The Gor- 

 dius is nine inches long, chocolate brown, with darker spots of the 

 same, attenuated anteriorly with the head rounded, and the tail 

 si)ival and at the end slightly compressed and roundly truncated. 

 Thickness of the worm anteriorly ith of a line; posteriorly^ gths 

 of a line. The species is probably Gordius dquaticus. 




384 PROCEEDINGS OF TIIK ACAPEMY OF [1878. 



Prof. L. further remarked that twent3' years ago he had collected 

 from Lily Pond, Newport, U. I., a mimher of little leeches, of two 

 species of Clepnine, which were much infested with delicate hair- 

 worms, coiled up ill the interior of tlie body. Tlie Clepsines were 

 the fourth to the third of an iiicii in length, 'Die most frequent 

 of tile s|)ecies had two eyes, the otlier liad tliree pairs of eyes. 

 The leeches contained from one to five of the hair-worms ranging 

 from 10 lines to 2 inciios in length. 'J'he worms aitpear to i)ertain 

 to a species of Gordius, which, fi'om its slender cliaraeter, may be 

 named Gordius tenuis. The worm is wliite or cream-colored, but 

 has l)econie brown as preserv(!d in alcoliol. It is attenuated an- 

 teriorly, with tlie head end tapering and conical; the posterior 

 end is curved, tliickened, and obtusely rounded. A siiort oesopha- 

 gus is succeeded by a simple, straight, capacious intestine imper- 

 forate at the j)osterior extremity. A worm of two inclies in 

 length, measured O.OG mm. near the head end, 0.14 mm. at the 

 middle, and 0.12 mm. at the tail end. A specimen 10 lines long 

 measured at the middle 0.1 mm. tliick. 



November 26. 

 The President, Dr. Kuscuenberger, in the chair. 

 Forty-six persons present. 



A paper entitled "Note on Ilyraceum," bj' "Wm. H. Green, 

 M.D., and A. J. Parker, M.D., was presented for publication. 



The deaths of Thomas H. Powers, a member, and Dr. Bennet 

 Dowler, a correspondent, were announced. 



Wm. S. Baker, J. Ward Atwood, and L. Ashley Faught were 

 elected members. 



R. Neilson Clark was elected a correspondent. 



The following papers were ordered to be printed : — 




PROC. A. N, S, PHILA^.. 1878. 



PL III. 



CHAPMAN ON THE GORILLA. 





PROC. A, N, S, PHILA^, 1878, 



PL IV, 



CHAPMAN ON THE GORILLA. 





CD 





CO 



CO 



Q_ 

 CO 



err 





CO 



CO 



CO 

 CD 





1878.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 385 



ON THE STRUCTURE OF THE GORILLA. 

 BY HENRY C. CHAPMAN, M.D. 



As the opportunity does not often present itself of anatomizing 

 a Gorilla, and as the literature on the structure of that anthropoid 

 is not extensive, it appears to me proper to communicate to the 

 Academy the results of m}' recent dissection of that animal, and 

 to notice more especiall}' in what the Gorilla agrees with, and 

 how it differs from other monke3^s and man. I take great pleasure 

 in prefacing my observations by stilting that I am indebted to 

 Dr. Thomas Morton, of this city, for the very rare chance of dis- 

 secting a specimen of Troglodytes gorilla^ it having been seldom 

 done abroad, and never before in this countr^^, so far as I know. 

 For a number of years past Dr. Morton has made numerous efforts 

 to obtain a Gorilla, and finally, through the kind offices of Rev. 

 R. H. Nassau, M.D., of the Presbyterian Missionary station at 

 Gaboon 100 miles below the equator in Africa, succeeded, in the 

 early part of the summer, in getting to Philadelphia the subject 

 of the present communication. The specimen was sent from the 

 Gaboon preserved in rum, and, through the excellent precaution 

 of Dr. Nassau, considering all the circumstances, was received 

 here in a tolerabl}' good condition. Owing to his numerous pro- 

 fessional engagements Dr. Morton was unable to dissect the 

 animal himself, which at his request I did, with the exception 

 however of the right leg, which Dr. Morton dissected entirely. 

 My remarks will be confined to my own dissections. The speci-- 

 men placed in my hands by Dr. Morton was a 3'oung male, said 

 to be about fifteen or eighteen months old, and which had lived 

 under Mr. Nassau's hospitable roof for some months in quite a 

 domestic manner, being very docile and affectionate in its ways. 

 I noticed its right arm had been broken, and that the lungs were 

 quite decomposed, and so considered its death was probably 

 caused by phthisis. Notwithstanding that the animal had under- 

 gone decomposition in some parts, Mr. Nash, the preparateur at 

 the University of Pennsylvania, with his usual skill succeeded in 

 making an injection, which sufficiently filled the principal vessels 

 for all practical purposes, and which materially assisted the dis- 

 section. The specimen measured 21 inches from heel to the crown 




386 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACAKEMY OF [1878. 



of head, the upper extremity 17, in the lower 13i. The upper 

 extremity was measured from head of humerus to tip of middle 

 fiDijer ; the lower from head of feuuir to tip of middle toe. 



Wliat struck me at once as regards tlie extremities was the 

 great lengtli of the upper extremities, the tips of tlie fingers 

 reacliing 3^ inches below the knee when tlie animal stood erect. 

 The length of the ui)per extremities is conditioned by the peculiar 

 gait of the Gorilla, which shufllcs along semi-erect on all fours, 

 using the extended hand as a fulcrum, and not flexing the fingers 

 like the Chim|)anzee. I make use of the term hand intentioriall}' in 

 contradistinction to that of foot, as, in my opinion. Prof. Huxley' 

 has satisfactoiily proved that the upj^er extremit3' is terminated 

 1)3' a hand and the lower hy a foot. Tiie hand, Plate Y., fig. 1, 

 measures 5 inches, and is slightly longer than the foot, Plate V., 

 fig. 2, which is 4^ inches long, 



A very noticeal)le difference in this young male, as compared 

 with an old one, is the absence from the head of the crest or ridge 

 of bone running along the sagittal suture of the skull, which is so 

 characteristic a feature of the skull of the adult male Gorilla. As 

 the animal advances in life the temporal muscles develop, and 

 their great size necessitates a firm basis of origin, and hence tlie 

 absence of this bony ridge at the early age of two years. The 

 young Gorilla, however, exhibits that width and elongation of the 

 face and massiveness of the jaws, Plates III. and IV., which give 

 the animal such a bestial aspect, so remarkable also in the Papu- 

 ans, Hottentots, Caffres, and some others of the lower races of 

 mankind. The part of the head containing the brain, however, is 

 far from being misshapen ; on the contrary, it presents a ver^'.fair 

 contour, and this is as might be expected, as the brain of the adult 

 Gorilla, whose skull is very animal-like, amounts to 34^ cubic 

 inches, while in some of the lower races of mankind, according 

 to the high authority of the late Dr. Morton, there is as little as 

 63 cubic inches, the higher races, however, attaining as much as 

 114. These facts illustrate the importance, if one really- wishes 

 to get at the truth, of comparing the highest kinds of monkeys 

 with the lowest types of mankind, and not with the highest, as is 

 usually- done, the latter comparison immeasurablj- increasing the 

 gap between man and monkey. 



' 3Iaii's Place iu Xature. 1864. 




1878.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 387 



On removing the calvarium the brain was found almost entirely 

 decomposed. The base of the skull was remarkably human in its 

 appearance, and the following measurements were noted : Antero- 

 posterior diameter, from the foramen ctecum to the torcular hero- 

 phili 4g inches ; lateral diameter through sella turcica 3^ inches; 

 lateral diameter from bases of petrous portions of temporal bones 

 31 inches. The distance between the foramen cfecum and olivary 

 process measured 1^ inches, from olivary process to posterior 

 clinoid process ^ inch; sella turcica to torcular heropliili 2| 

 inches; outer border of lesser wing of sphenoid to ridge of tem- 

 poral Ig inches. These measurements indicate a well-formed and 

 relatively large brain. 



The number of teeth in the Gorilla, like all the catarrhine 

 monkeys, is the same as in man. The ferocious aspect of an old 

 male is due to a great extent to the large size of the canine teeth, 

 which in the young male are comparatively small. The neck in 

 our specimen is short and thick ; the chest and shoulders broad, 

 bod}^ long. 



As the skeleton of the Gorilla has been admirably described by 

 Prof. Richard Owen,^ it would be superfluous for me to consider it 

 here, and I take the opportunity also of testifying to the general 

 accuracy of the description of its myology b}^ the late Prof. 

 Duvernoy,^ so far as my specimen enables me to make a compari- 

 son. In some parts the muscles were too much decomposed to 

 detern)ine positively their origin and insertion, and in some in- 

 stances muscles described b}" Duvernoy were certainl}'^ wanting in 

 the specimen dissected by me, or had a different disposition. As 

 the inuscles of the extremities are the most interesting, being 

 regarded by Prof. Huxle^' as among the tests for the bimanous or 

 quadrumanous nature of the Gorilla and other monkeys, I will 

 confine myself more particularly to the description of the muscles 

 that I found in the extremities of this specimen. 



In reference to the muscles of the arm in ray specimen the 

 biceps, coraco brachialis, brachialis anticus, and triceps did not 

 differ in any way from the corresponding muscles in man. But 

 there was present the latissimus condyloideus, its name indicating 

 its origin and insertion — a muscle which I have found in various 



' Zoological Trans., vols. 4, 5. 

 2 Archives du Musee, 1855-56. 




388 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY tiF [ISTS. 



other monkeys, viz., Cynoccphahist^ Gercopithicus, Macacua, 

 Cebus^ Ilapale. This muscle has been described as occurring also 

 in the Cliimpaiizee, Orang, and (j!il)bon. I have seen it as an 

 anomaly in the colored races of men, and it has been recorded as 

 also occurring in the white races. Tlie only differences as regards 

 the superficial muscles of tiie anterior aspect of the forearm as 

 comijared with those of man are that the pronator radii teres 

 arises by only one head, and by that from the internal condyle 

 of the humerus, and that the palmaris longus is absent. 'I'liis, 

 however, is sometimes absent in man. There was no appie- 

 ciable difference in the origin and insertion of the flexor carpi 

 radialis, flexor carpi ulnaris, or flexor sublimus digitorum. Of the 

 deep muscles of the fcn-earm, the pionator quadratus^ and flexor 

 profundus digitorum offer in this specimen nothing specially dif- 

 ferent from those of the same muscles in man. But an interesting 

 peculiarity is the entire absence of a'flexor longus pollicis. Accord- 

 ing to Duvernoy, the flexor profundus digitorum in the Gorilla 

 gives off a tendinous slip which passes to the thumb, and corre- 

 sponds to the flex<jr longus pollicis. Such a disposition I have 

 seen in the various genera of monkeys I have dissected. But 

 in this Gorilla there was no trace of a flexor longus pollicis either 

 as a distinct muscle or as a tendinous portion of the flexor longus 

 digitorum. Thinking that perhaps this might be an anomaly, I 

 looked carefull3' for the muscle or the tendon in the other hand, 

 but could find no trace of either. The entire absence of the 

 flexor longus pollicis in the Orang, also, is well known. On 

 the back of the forearm, in my specimen, were well-developed, 

 in no wise different from man, the supinator longus, supinator 

 brevis, extensor carpi radialis longior and brevior, extensor in- 

 dicis, extensor communis digitorum, extensor minimi digiti, ex- 

 tensor carpi ulnaris, extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis, extensor 

 primi internodii pollicis, and extensor secundi internodii pollicis. 

 According to Prof. Huxley,' the muscle usually' described as the 

 extensor primi internodii pollicis in the Chimpanzee and other 

 apes, is the metacarpal division of the extensor ossis metacarpi. 

 While appreciating this criticism, I am nevertheless satisfied that 

 there exists a distinct extensor primi internodii pollicis in this 



' The pronator was only slightly developed in this specimen. 

 2 Anatomy' of Vertebrates, p. 408. 




1878.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 389 



specimen of the Gorilla. As regards the hand the tendons a of 

 the flexor sublimus digitorum />, Plate TI., Gg. 1, split so as to 

 enable the tendons h of the flexor profundus digitorum, Plate VI., 

 fig. 1 i, to pass through to their insertion. Part of the flexor pro- 

 fundus i in the figure is concealed b}' the flexor sublimis h. The 

 lumbricales are well developed. The thumb preseuted fully de- 

 veloped the abductor, flexor brevis, adductor, Plate YL, fig. 1 c, 

 0^, <?, and opponens pollicis, and the little fiuger, the abductor, flexor 

 brevis and opponens minimi digiti. In the disposition and relative 

 development of these muscles I can see no difference fiom those 

 exhibited iu the hand of man. Briefly, then, the muscular sj'stem 

 of the upper extremity of the Gorilla diSers from that of mau in 

 that the latissimo-cond_yloideus is present in the former, while 

 the palmaris longus and flexor longus pollicis are absent, and 

 that the pronator arises by only one head. 



In the thigh I noticed the tensor vaginfie femoris, the rectus, the 

 vasti and crureus, the adductors and pectineus, the sartorius, 

 biceps, gracilis, semi-membranosus, and semi-tendinosus. The 

 last two muscles in the Gorilla are more fleshj^ than in man, but 

 in other respects these muscles, as well as those just mentioned, 

 are essentially the same iu their origin and insertion as in man. 

 On the anterior aspect of the leg may be seen the tibialis anticus, 

 extensor longus hallucis, extensor longus digitorum. The little 

 slip from this hist muscle, unfortunately called the peroneus tertius 

 in human anatomj', is absent iu the Gorilla; I say unfortunately, 

 because the name peroneus tertius would lead the comparative 

 anatomist to suppose it inserted in the third toe, just as the 

 names peroneus quartus and peroneus quintus of the rabbit and 

 marmoset monkeys imply that these muscles are inserted into the 

 fourth and fifth toes respectively, which is the ease in these ani- 

 mals, whereas the peroneus tertius of human anatomj- arises from 

 the dorsal side of the fibula, and is inserted into the metatarsal 

 bone of the fifth toe. It seems to be peculiar to man, and is 

 sometimes absent The peroneus longus and peroneus brevis in 

 the Gorilla repeat essentially the characters of those muscles in ' 

 man, and there is an extensor brevis digitorum. The posterior 

 aspect of the leg of the Gorilla exhibits the flexor longus digito- 

 rum, flexor longus hallucis, tibialis posticus, and gastrocnemius, 

 similar to the corresponding muscles in man. The soleus,'liow- 

 ever, only arises from the fibula in the Gorilla, as I have also 




390 PROCEEDINGS OF TIIK Af'ADKMY OF [1878. 



noticed wns llie case in otlirr monkeys. TIk; pl.-iiitai'is is absent 

 in this specimen. Tlie itlantaiis is, iiowever, well <leveloi)e(l in 

 the Baboons, .Mncacqnes, etc The abductor, flexor brevis, ad- 

 ductor of the iialhix, are as evident in the Gorilla as in man, as 

 also the transversus pedis, aliductor and flexor brevis minimi 

 digit i. The flexor accessorius is, however, absent in the Gorilla 

 and in the Gibbf)on and Orang, but sometimes present in the 

 Chimpanzee. I have found itMvell developed in ]SIacae(jues, Bab- 

 oons, Vervets, etc. The flexor ))revis digitorum, Plate VI., fig. 

 2, fl, in the Gorilla is somewhat different from that in man. The 

 part supplying the second and third toes. Plate VI., fig. 2, a', 

 only arises from the calcaneum, a, the tendons going to the 

 fourth and filth toes coming oflf' from the tendons of the flexor 

 longus digitorum, r/, an<l flexor longus hallucis, e. respectivel3\ 

 The tendon for the fifth toe is not perforated. The flexor longus 

 digitorum, (/, supplies especially the deep tendons for the second 

 and fifth toes, Plate VI., fig. 2, i, c. The flexor longus hallucis, 

 Plate VI., fig. 2, e, divides into two tendons, one of which,/, 

 supplies the big toe, and the other, g, after giving uniting fibres 

 to the tendon of the flexor longus digitorum, passes to be inserted 

 to the third and fourth toes, A, k. The flexor longus digitorum, 

 d, supplies the superficial tendon for fourth toe, 6, and the deep 

 tendon for the fifth one, c. The flexor longus hallucis, e, the 

 superficial tendon for the fifth toe, and the deep one for the fourth 

 toe, k. The superficial tendon for the fifth toe is not represented 

 in the figure, it having been unfortunately torn off before it could 

 be drawn. There are well-developed lurabricales. On comparing 

 the lower extremity of the Gorilla with that of man, the principal 

 differences in the muscular system are the absence, in the Gorilla, 

 of the plantaris, the so-called peroneus tertius, flexor accessorius, 

 the soleus arising by only the fibular head, and the flexor brevis 

 digitorum only in part from the calcaneum, and the defined share 

 that the flexor longus hallucis takes in forming the deep tendons 

 of the third and fourth toes. Surch' these differences cannot be 

 strained into proving that the termination of the lower extremity 

 of the Gorilla is a hand, especially when it is remembered that 

 two of the muscles which are absent in the Gorilla are present in 

 the lower monkeys. I must respectfull}- protest, therefore, against 

 the conclusions arrived at bj' Prof. Bischoff ' in his elaborate me- 



1 Munich, 1870. 




1878.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 391 



moil" on the Ili/lobafes, namely, that the monke3's are four-handed, 

 structurally. That the monkey's use their feet like hands is a 

 matter of every-day observation. But to conclude from that fact 

 that their feet are anatomicalh^ hands is as illogical as it would 

 be to conclude that the Ateles and Colobus possess onlj^ rudimen- 

 tary thumbs, and having, therefore, no grasping power and using 

 their hands like feet, are four-footed, not four-handed. To be 

 consistent, those who assume that the Gorilla and other monkej's 

 are four-handed should hold that the tail of Ateles is anatomically 

 a finger, simply because it is used like one, and its upper extremity 

 terminates in a foot and its lower in a hand. 



It is interesting to notice that in the Gorilla the great blood- 

 vessels come off from the aorta in the same manner as in man. 

 Thus the subclaA'ian and left carotid arteries spring separately 

 from the aorta, while the right carotid and right subclavian origi- 

 nate in a common trunk — the innominate. This disposition of the 

 vessels is also seen in the Chimpanzee, according to Yrolik.' With 

 this exception, the arrangement of these bloodvessels in all the 

 other monke3's is that the left subclavian comes off separately 

 from the aorta, but that the left carotid originates in tlie in- 

 nominate, as well as the right carotid and right subclavian. I 

 have noticed a similar arrangement, with minor differences, in 

 such animals as the Tiger, Squirrel, Guinea-pig, Kangaroo. It 

 should be mentioned, however, that the origin of the bloodvessels 

 which obtains in man, the Gorilla, and Chimpanzee, is not charac- 

 teristic of these animals, as I have seen a similar arrangement in 

 the Hedge-hog, Seal, Beaver, Sloth, Wombat, and, according to 

 Meckel,- is found in the Ornithorhynchus, In reference to the 

 vascular system of the upper extremit}^ of the Gorilla, there was 

 nothing essentially different from that of man. The brachial 

 arter}^ divided into the radial and ulnar; the palmar arch and 

 digital vessels exhibited the human arrangement. I noticed the 

 cephalic and basilic veins, the radial, median, and ulnar. The 

 onl}' peculiaritj' about the vessels of the lower extremity was 

 that of the femoral artery giving off, in the middle of its course, 

 a good-sized vessel, which accompanied the long saphenous nerve 

 and vein to the inner aspect of the foot. Possibly, tliis is onl}^ an 



' Recherches sur la Chimpanzee. ^ 



2 Oruithorhyucbus, 1826. 




392 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [IS!78. 



anomaly, but l>r. Morton found the same vessel in the right leg. 

 Should this vessel be found in future instances. I would call it'the 

 long sa|>henous artery. The distribution of tlie plantar arteries 

 is the same as that in man. As regards the nerve system, tlie 

 external cutaneous nerve passes tlirough the coraco-braehialis 

 muscle in the Gorilla as in man; tiie ulnar nerve, however, is im- 

 bedded in the latissimocondyloideus muscle; the median nerve, 

 o|)posite the articulation of arm and forearm, gives off a branch 

 tliat anastomoses with the ulnar. I have never seen such an 

 anastomotic branch in man: possibly it is only an anomal}'. The 

 median nerve, Plate VI., fig. 1, /, supplies, in the Gorilla, the 

 tliumb, index, middle, and the inner side of ring finger; the nlnar, 

 Plate VI., fig. 1, 7, the outer side of the ring and little finger. 

 The back of the hand receives filaments from the radial and ulnar 

 nerves. The whole disposition is similar to that seen in the hand 

 of man. In a similar manner to that of man, the plantar nerves 

 furnish the nervous supply to the foot of the Gorilla, i Inasmuch 

 as the nerves, arteries, and veins of the extremities in the Gorilla 

 are essentially the same as in man, it confirms the statement 

 made above, deduced from the arrangement of the bones and 

 muscles, that the Gorilla has anatomicall}' two hands and two 

 feet in just the same sense that man has, and what is true for the 

 Gorilla is true for all the monke3's. I do not mean that the hand 

 of every monkey is alike and exactly similar to that of man, or 

 that the foot is absolutely similar in all these animals. On the 

 contrary, I have often noticed minor difierences ; but, in my 

 opinion, to say that a monke3' is quadrumanous in its structure 

 is to state what can be demonstrated as false in the monkc}^ of 

 any species, whether high or low. 



Unfortunately the thoracic and abdominal organs were too 

 much decomposed in this specimen to give any detailed account 

 of their structure. The peritoneum entering into the formation 

 of the great omentum had been so much torn that I cannot say 

 positively whether the transverse colon was separate from the 

 great omentum, as is seen in monkey's and in man when in an 

 embryonic condition — or fused with it, as exhibited in the adult 

 human being. There were no valvulae-conniventes in the intes- 

 tine. The only mammals, indeed, with the exception of man, in 

 which I have noticed these folds of the mucous membrane, are the 

 Elephant and the Camels; according to Meckel, the^-are also pre- 




1878.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 393 



sent in theOrnithorhynclivis. In that portion of the small intestine 

 that was intact I observed the glands of Pejer, relatively large 

 and well developed. The vermiform appendix was present, and 

 measured two and a half inches. This interesting structure is 

 also found in the Chimpanzee, Orang, and Gibbon, but is absent in 

 other monkeys; it is, however, found in the Wombat. I noticed 

 it in three animals of that species that I have dissected. The 

 intestines contained the remains of half-undigested vegetable food. 



Although the Gorilla was said to be nearly eighteen months old, 

 the scrotum was hardly developed; the testes, however, could be 

 felt just below the external abdominal ring, and the communication 

 between the greater cavity of the peritoneum and that of the 

 tunica vaginalis testis was unclosed. 



What conclusions can be drawn from this brief account of the 

 structure of the Gorilla as to its place in Nature? In 1864 ap- 

 peared the admirable "Man's Place in Nature," by Prof. Huxley, 

 in which the general proposition is maintained that the gap be- 

 tween the Gorilla and the lower monkeys is greater than that 

 between the Gorilla and man.^ With all deference to that profound 

 thinker, it appears to me that that proposition, while generally 

 true, is not strictlj' so, since there are present in man and the 

 lower monkeys certain muscles, like the flexor longus pollicis, or 

 its homologue, and the flexor accessorius, which are absent in the 

 Gorilla ; wdiile the Gorilla and the lower monkej's possess the 

 latissimo-condyloideus muscle, which is absent in man, except as 

 an anomaly. I call attention to the above essay of Prof, Huxlti}^, 

 nat so much in a spirit of criticism, for 1 am in accord thoroughly' 

 with the tenor of the work, as to account for the general error so 

 common among non-professionals, that evolutionists hold that 

 man has descended from the Gorilla. Prof. Huxley certainlj^ did 

 not intend, in the famous work referred to above, to leave the 

 reader with the impression that man had descended from a Gorilla. 

 But as a detailed comparison was made between man and the 

 Anthropods, there was a widespread impression developed b}' the 

 publication of that book, that such a view was held by Darwinians, 

 and advocates of the development theory generally, for which 

 Prof. Huxley is unjustly held responsible, as too many criticize 

 his work without havingr read it. 



' Man's Place in Nature, pp. 84, 103. 

 26 




394 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [187S. 



Ilaviiio; li:i<l tlic oppoitiinitv of dissecting numerous genera of 

 nioiikt'vs, :iii.l ;ilways while so doiiii^ reflecting on their str.icture 

 as conipared with tiiat of man, 1 venture to state tliat I do not 

 think any monkey now known can 1)0 regardeil as the ancestor of 

 man in general, and the Gorilla certainly not in particular. On 

 tlie contrary, however, I believe that all the facts go to sliow that 

 the dilferent kinds of monkeys are the modified descendants of 

 one ancestor, and that the different races of men have similarly 

 descended from a common ancestor, and, further, that the ances- 

 tors of the monkeys and man hacl a common aucestr}'. In a word, 

 man, the Gorilla, the Chimpanzee, and the Orang, etc., arc distantly 

 related, man and monkeys l)eing meml>ers of the same order, Pri- 

 mates, and that there is no race of man, recent or fossil, or kind 

 of monke}', now living or fossil, that will adequately represent the 

 primitive man or the primitive monkey, and still less the common 

 ancestor of both. If this view be correct, a "missing link" ought 

 not to be expected to be found. While a firm Ix'liever in the 

 doctrine of evolution, and while being entirely satisfied that the 

 form of any animal or plant is the resultant of incidental forces 

 upon plastic matter, and that the ])roblems of morphology are 

 questions of the redistribution of matter and motion, simple 

 phj'sical prol)lems to be considered in tlie same spirit as the 

 phenomena of electricity and chemistry are investigated, I must 

 say that the genealogy of man has not as yet been worked out. 





PROC, A. N. S. PHILA"., 1878 



^^T.CS.clel 



STEARNS ON WEST COAST SHELLS. 




1818.] NATURAL SCIENCE8 OF PHILADELPHIA. 395 



DESCRIPTION OF A NEW SPECIES OF DOLABELLA, FROM THE GULF 

 OF CALIFORNIA, WITH REMARKS ON OTHER RARE OR LITTLE- 

 KNOWN SPECIES FROM THE SAME REGION. 



BY ROBERT E. C. STEARNS. 



The forms referred to herein are part of a collection made in 

 1876, hy Mr. William J. Fisher, of San Francisco, and kindly 

 presented to me by the collector. In connection with the previous 

 abundant material in my cabinet from Lower California and the 

 shores and waters of the Gulf of California, Mr. Fisher's contri- 

 bution adds much to our knowledije of the forms inhabitino; the 

 above province, their distribution and variation. I propose to 

 publish additional papers in continuation of this, with notes and 

 comments relating to these points. 



Dolabella Californica, Steams. (New Species.) 



This form appears to have escaped detection until collected by 

 Mr. Fisher, who found it living in Mulege Bay, Gulf of California; 

 it prefers "dark places in pools left by the tide." 



Though several specimens of the animal were procured, I was 

 unable to obtain a specimen for investigation. Mr. Fisher, who 

 made no drawings at the time of collecting, informs me that the 

 animal is of the same general form as authors have given for 

 Aplyaia ;^ the color of the above species being a dark-brown, and 

 . the surface covered with warty papillae. As to color, this species 

 probably varies somewhat as do the individuals of others. 



Tlie species heretofore made known are principal!}^ inhabitants 

 of the Indo-Pacific province, and tlie Mediterranean region is also 

 credited with a representation of this group. 



The figures, Plate VII, 1 and 2, of natural size, wliich I have 

 carefully drawn from the largest of the two shells in my collections, 

 resemble in outline, somewhat, the shells of D. Rumjihii of Cuvier, 

 = Z>. ^capida^ Martyn. The nuclear callosities vary more or less 

 in different specimens. 

 Murex (Ocinebra) erinaceoides, Val. (=? M. Califomicus Hds ) 



In the late Dr. Carpenter's Reports to the British Association, 

 reference is made to the foregoing species {MurLcidea erina- 

 ceoides) by name only. In his Mazatlan Catalogue, iiowever, he 



' See Woodward's Manual, 2d ed., p. 331. 




396 PUOCEKDlNfiS OF THE ACADEMY OF [18Y8. 



lias described a ''v:ir, indcnlata," of :i f(;rni wlik-li lie presumes to 

 be Vuleneieimes, species, and suggests a comparison with Kiener's 

 Mnrex olrrafiis. Jn the Sinitlisoiiian Clieck List (June, 18(;0\ 

 he included Kiener's name, lint omitted that of Valenciennes. As 

 neither Kiener's nor Reeve's monographs are accessible, 1 liave 

 only been able to com|)are with Chenu's figure 583, as piesented 

 in tlie hitter's Manual, Vol. I., p. 13V. which is quite a difll-rent 

 Jbrin from that herein considered, and wliich I have no doubt is 

 the sliell described by Yalencicnnes, for his name is so eminently 

 appropriate, that if there is an}' question or confusion of names, 

 his should be retained. The shell referred to has frequently been 

 under my notice, and its determination has sorely puzzled others 

 as well as myself. The specimen before me at tliis moment, wiiich 

 is only about half the size of some in ra}'^ collection, is exceed- 

 ingly suggestive of the European ei-inaceus, and the characters 

 and range of variation in the two species are ver}' much alike, 

 though large adults vary more than do the smaller individuals. 

 The West American form, when adult, is more triangular, and 

 exhibits a general variation in the direction of Pteronotun. 



The genera Muricidea and Ociuebra, as defined in Adams's 

 Genera, when considered in the light of some of the species in- 

 cluded b}^ said authors in each of the two groups, will be found 

 on comparison to approximate so closely as to create a doul)t as 

 to, in which of them, certain forms should be placed. 1 have 

 grouped the form under review with Ociuebra because the Adams' 

 have so placed its European analogue erinaceus, and for the 

 further and better reason that most of the small muricoids of this 

 part of tiie West American coast fall naturally into said genus. 

 I am under tlie impression tliat some of the man}' Ocinebras of 

 the. southerly part of tlie Californian and Vancouver province will 

 prove to be northern varieties of this species. La Paz, Gulf of 

 California, rare, Fisher; but, judging from the number of beach 

 shells which I have seen, it must be abundant at some point in the 

 Gulf or on the mainland or islands along the western or ocean 

 side of the peninsula. 



I append the following note from Mr. Tryon, who has kindly 

 traced the synonymy. It is not unlikely that this form may 

 prove to be a Gerasloma^ as he suggests. 



[Reference to the original description and distinctive characters 

 of Murex erinaceoides^ Yal. (Recueil d'Observations, etc. IL, 




1878.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 397 



302, 1833), indicates that Mr. Stearns' identification of this species 

 is correct. It has been since described by Mr. Hinds in Zool. 

 Proc. London, 128, 1843, under the name of Murex Gali/o7'mcns 

 Hinds; and excellent colored figures are given in Yo}-. Sulphur., 

 t. 3, f. 9, 10. It is also figured in Reeve, Conch. Icon. sp. 144, 

 under the latter name. Hinds describes the shell as having six 

 varices, but his figures only show three ; Reeve's description is 

 correct in mentioning three varices alternating with nodes or ribs. 

 The specimen sent by Mr. Stearns, with his paper, has but three 

 varices. I think that Mr. Hinds has erred in including the three 

 internodes as varices in his description. The species cannot be 

 placed in either Ociiiebra or Muricidea. Until the operculum 

 shall be examined, it will be impossible to group it with certainty' ; 

 if the operculum is muricoid, it is a Chicoreus^ Montf. ; if purpu- 

 roid, it is a Cerastoma^ Conr. Geographical considerations lead 

 me to surmise that it will prove to be the latter. Broderip (Zool. 

 Proc. 175, 1832) described Murex lugubris, a species having five 

 or six varices, and much resembling M. erinaceus. It occurs from 

 Puerto Portrero, Central America, to Magdalena Ba}^, and is 

 figured by Sowerb}', Conch. Illust. f. 26, and by Reeve, Iconica, 

 sp. 143. If this should prove to be the same as Yalenciennes's 

 species, the name would take precedence, having a 3'ear's priority. 



G. W. T., Jr.] 

 Macron JBthiops, Reeve = M. Kellettii, Hinds. 



Numerous fine specimens were found alive on mud flats in San 

 Quentin bay, which indisputably connect the foregoing. 



Reeve's species was probabl}^ described from a large specimen,' 

 in which the entire surface of the whorls was broadly and more 

 or less deeply channeled or grooved, as in specimens in m}' col- 

 lection, which measure 2.9 inches in length by 1.92 inch in width ; 

 from this, younger specimens, as small as 1 inch in length by .58 

 inch in width (the outer lip thin at this age), show the same cha- 

 racters. 



In Kellettii^ the tj-pe, as figured in Chenu's Manuel, measures 

 1.80 inch in length by 1.10 inch in width, and exhibits only three 

 of these channels near the base of the body whorl. Mr. Fisher's 

 specimens prove that the grooving is an uncertain character. 

 The number of individuals collected b^' him was fortunately^am- 

 ple enough to settle all doubts, and prove that the two forms as 




398 PROCEEDINOS OF TIIK ACADEMY OF [1878. 



above should be united under one specific name ; as Mr. Reeve's 

 appears to be the lirst in order of time, it must l)e adopted. 



All of these shells, when alive or fresh, are covered with a Ijlaok 

 or nearly black epidermis, which is apt to flake or peel off when 

 very dry. (The epidermis has the same characters in the rare 

 Mitra Belch eri, in common with other West American related 

 forms, and we may presume lives in viud stations.) 



The varieties of Macron may be described as follow: — 



I. Length 2.02, breadth 1.28 inches; channelled thro\ighout ; 

 more conspicuously on lower part of body whorl than elsewhere. 

 Plate VII., fig 3. 



II. Length 1, breadth .57 inch ; outer lip immature ; channelled 

 throughout. 



III. Length 1.76, breadth 1.10 inch ; channels obsolete or nearly 

 so on upper part of body whorl. Plate VII., fig. 4. 



lY. Length 1.22, breadth .82 inch ; channels strongl}- marked 

 l)elow, fainter above and on the greater part of body whorl ; on 

 upper part of same barely perceptible. 



V. Length 1.58, breadth 1 inch; three grooves on lower part 

 of body whorls ; otherwise smooth ; typical of Hinds' form. 

 Plate VII., fig. 5. 



Although the other West American species, described by A. 

 Adams, and named 3L lividuft. Plate VII., 0, habitat San Diego, 

 on the ocean coast in the State of California, is a smaller form, 

 witli a smooth, unchannelled surface, suture somewhat deeply im- 

 pressed ; seldom attaining the length of one inch (averaging only 

 .77), and rather slender than robust, and at present, I believe, 

 universally regarded as a " good species," nevertheless I am of 

 the opinion that it will prove to be a variety of the larger gulf 

 forms, dwarfed by reason of its extreme northerly and extra 

 limital position. 



Mr. Reeve's form is also found at " Cedros" or Cerros Island, 

 off the coast on the ocean side of the peninsula, and the range of 

 forms herein referred to, it will be noted, extends from San Diego, 

 California, in the north, around (probably at many points) on 

 both coasts, the inner and outer shores of I^ower California, and 

 on the adjacent islands. 



Numerous specimens in my collection and that of W.J. Fisher. 




18T8.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 399 



Cyprsea (luponia) controversa, Gray. 



In Sowerby's monograph of Cypraea, in his Conch. lUustr., spe- 

 cies 30, figure 136, no habitat given, reference is made to what I 

 have always regarded as ap[)l3ing to the form under considera- 

 tion. The only comment in the text as above is: '■ 30 — C contra- 

 versa, Gray^ Zool, Journ., t. 7 and 12, p. 7. Ohs. This may prove 

 to be only a variety of C. Isabella." 



While its general coloration would lead to its being grouped 

 with C. Isabella of the Indo-Pacific and C. lurida of the Medi- 

 terranean regions, it differs more from the former than it does 

 from the latter named species. While it is a more ventricose form 

 than C. Isabella, in this respect being nearer to C liwida. tlie 

 edges of the lips are not as finely and closely crenalated as in 

 Isabella, nor as coarseh' as in hwida. 



As the specimens which first attracted the attention of Califor- 

 nian collectors and naturalists were beach shells, they were re- 

 garded as ballast specimens of Isabella from some Indo-Pacific 

 l)ort, thrown over from some ship, or accidentally mixed in witli 

 gulf shells bj' sailors, and were not carefully examined or consid- 

 ered. Their frequent reception from the gulf has led me to look 

 into the matter, with tlie result as above stated. 



Mr. Fisher collected several fresh living specimens at the Maria 

 Madre, and at San Juanico Islands of the Tres Marias grouj), 

 and the species should be added to the faunal list of the Mazatlan 

 province. 



Onchidella Carpenter!, Steam? = Onchidium Carpenter!, W. G. Binney. 



Tlie form referred to herein, which I presume to be the same 

 imperfectl}- described from alcoholic specimens by Mr. Binney in 

 the Proceedings of the Philadelphia Academj' of Natural Sciences, 

 1860, page 154, is an Onchidella,, as said genus is defined by 

 Woodward,^ the generic description and type {0. Typhat, Bucha- 

 nan) being considered, together with numerous specimens collected 

 by Mr. Fisher at various phices in the gulf of California. 



Although Mr. Fisher's specimens are somewhat contracted and 

 distorted by alcohol, they are probably in better condition than 

 were those examined by Mr. Binne}-, and I am therefore able t<> 

 add the following to that author's descriptive remarks : — 



Body oblong ovate, about one-third longer than wide ; copvex 



' Recent and Fossil Shells, 2d ed., 299. 




400 . PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1878. 



or roundcfl above, Hat on tlie iwider side ; anterior and posterior 

 ends e(iiially rounded. Dorsum formed by the mantle, and cn- 

 tirclj' covering the hack, whicli is of a smoky brown color, coria- 

 ceous and quite thiek at the edges, as seen from the under siile, 

 ■uiiith latter is of a dingy yellowish color. Surface of dorsum 

 closely covered with rougli wart-like papillfe, some larger than 

 otliers ; the largest placed so as to present somewhat the asi)ect 

 of regularity, the interspaces being filled with the smaller. Creep- 

 ing disk or bell}' elongated, nearly as long as the animal, and its 

 width about one-third of the entire width, as seen from below. 



Respirator}' orifice on the left side, between the e<]gc of the 

 creeping disk and the mantle, at a point about two-fifths of the 

 total length, from the posterior end. Anal outlet on the right 

 side, ver}' near tlie posterior extremity of, and just above the edge 

 of, the creeping disk. 



The eye peduncles rather short, and these, together with the 

 buccal appendages, are obscured through the contraction caused 

 by the alcohol. 



The creeping disk, being comparatively soft, is much contracted 

 by the same cause. 



[Abundant, attached to the iinder side of stones, at low tide. 

 Sometimes overlapping each other. — W. J. Fisher.] 



Habitat. Gulf of California, in San. Fraucisquita Ba}', Los 

 Animas Bay, and Angeles Ba}'. 



The above was written, and Plate Yll., figure T, drawn (twice 

 the actual size) from an alcoholic si>ecimeu in my collection. It 

 shows the ventral ; o, oral orifice ; a, anal orifice ; r, respiratory 

 orifice ; d, creeping disk. 



Specimens are also contained in the collections of Mr. Fisher, 

 Museum of University of California. 



Figure 8, Plate YII., restored as suggested b}' Mr. Fisher, to 

 whom the drawing was submitted ; he writes : ''' Your figure Xo. 

 2, (8) has the exact shape of the species." 



Judging by figures 2 and 2a, of Onchidella granulosa, Lesson 

 in Adams' Genera of Recent Mollusca, PI. LXXXL, it somewhat 

 resembles that species, except in coloi*. 



Mr. F. W. Hutton, in his " Catalogue of the Marine Mollusca 

 of New Zealand," includes a species Onchidella nigricans, Quoy, 

 color " uniform black" . . . . " common on rocks between 




1878.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 401 



tide marks," having the same habit in this respect as Carpen- 

 teri. 



The Adams say, " The species of this genus live on aquatic 

 plants, in ditches and damp places." According to Woodward, 

 the California species belongs in a different genus from that in 

 which I have placed it, for he sa^'s : "Those which frequent 

 sea-shores have been separated under the name of Perotiia, Bl. 

 (Onchis, Fer.)." The tjq^e of this last genus P. tongana,. Quo}', 

 is too conspicuously different to admit of this ; the balance of 

 characters being decidedly in favor of the group first named 

 herein, and to which I regard it as more nearly related. 



The dorsal eyes, detected by Prof. Semper in certain forms of 

 Onchidiae, and which he has so carefully illustrated and described, 

 I have not been able as j^et to discover in any of the specimens 

 collected by Mr. Fisher. 




402 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1S78. 



ON A BELT OF SERPENTINE AND STEATITE IN RADNOR TOWNSHIP, 

 DELAWARE COUNTY, PA. 



Hy THE»». I). HAND. 



There is a well-known belt of ser|)entine passing throiigli Rad- 

 nor Townshii), in a direction altont N. 80 E. from near Itadnor 

 Station, P. R. R., continuing probably to West Chester, S, 75^ 

 W., and which is probal)!}' identical with tliat apparent at the 

 Schuylivill at Rose's quarry, nearly ojjposite Lafa3ette ^Station, P, 

 G. & N. R. R. 



This serpentine is very dark, and is almost without other min- 

 erals except asbestos. Northwest of this is another belt, which I 

 believe has never before been described. 



Its southeasternmost outcrop is on the S. W. side of the gulf 

 road, about 150 yards S. E. of the road from Radnor Station to 

 Conshohocken, and in, but near the southeastern border of, the 

 Edge Hill hydro-mica schists, which a quarter of a mile X. W. 

 form the Gulf Hills, the continuation of which is known as tlie 

 South (Chester) Yalle}" Hill. Its outcrop is a very small one, 

 not over six or eight feet in width, and has been exposed by a 

 cutting of the road. 



The serpentine is of a reddish- and also of a blackish-green 

 color, quite compact. No other minerals are visible. 



About a mile, S. 73° W., from this point, a similar serpentine 

 appears, ploughed up in a field on the property' of the heirs of 

 Mark Brooke. This point is about five-eighths of a mile nearly N. 

 E. from Radnor Station, and about a quarter of a mile N. N. W. 

 from the well-known serpentine belt. 



At this point it is accompanied b}- a bed of steatite, indeed 

 nearly pure talc. On both sides occur the primal sandstone rocks 

 of Rogers. This observation, however, is made, except as to one 

 outcrop of steatite, on surface specimens ploughed up, Init the 

 beds are so well defined and the rocks so abundant that I believe 

 it is accurate, and it is confirmed In' another exposure hereafter 

 mentioned. 



The accompanj'ing minerals are chlorite and a foliated chloritic 

 mineral, and on the N. E. a garnetiferous schist. This garnetife- 

 rous schist is found apparently southwest of the steatite, on the 




1878.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 403 



road from Rarlnor Station to Conshohocken, X. E. of tlie road 

 separating Delaware from Montgomery County. Tlie steatite, 

 with two distinct parallel outcrops, with primal sandstone be- 

 tween, appears near the same road in a plouglied field, but only as 

 loose masses, on a farm forraerl}' owned b}'^ Christopher Pechin ; 

 no serpentine was found. 



These two exposures of the steatite are about half a mile apart, 

 and the direction is nearly X. 70^ E. 



The serpentine on the gulf road is very nearly in the same 

 direction, and although no steatite was found on the gulf road, 

 except one small piece, I was assured by Mr. Garrett Williamson, 

 who has resided in the neighboriiood for years, and who first called 

 my attention to the fact that steatite existed in the vicinit}', that 

 steatite had been found in place in digging the gutters of the 

 road, about one hundred 3'ards southeast of the serpentine, and 

 on searching at this point the small specimen mentioned was 

 found. 



The continuation of the line was followed, but no other expo- 

 sure was seen. The strike is nearly tlie same as that of tlie Edge 

 Hill rocks, the trap, the primal slates, and the Gulf Valley ; var3'ing 

 about 18° from that of the steatite of the soapstone quarr}', from 

 Chestnut Hill to the black rocks near Merion Square, and its 

 probable continuation from Rosemont southwestwardh'. 



The question at once suggests itself: Is this steatite of the 

 soapstone bolt on the nortlieasterly side of an anticlinal axis? 

 The presence of the garnetiferous mica schist favors this view, 

 but the occurrence on the gulf road on the Edge Hill rocks, and 

 the presence on the nortlieast of the primal slates are opposed to 

 it. I desire at present merel\- to put the facts upon record, hoping 

 that future discoveries may render them of value towards devel- 

 opment of the geology of the region. 



The line of strike of this belt would be just at the brow of the 

 hill on the southwest side of the Schuylkill, overlooking Consho- 

 hocken. Granitoid gneissic rocks are there in abundant outcrops, 

 but no serpentine or steatite has been noticed. 



I desire also to call attention to a fact which probably indicates 

 a line of fault in the upper part of the valley of Mill Creek, The 

 steatite belt of the soapstone quarries is found in a very nearly 

 perfect line, about S. 54^ W. from Chestnut Hill, Philadelfhia, 

 to near Merion Square, Montgomery County, where it is very 




404 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADKMY OP [1878. 



prominent in the so-called Itlack rocks. It continues, however, 

 in the same direction at least half a mile further, l)eiiig exposed 

 in the l^laclc llock Road at the curve in that road N. E. of Mr. 

 Chas. Wheeler's, l)eyond which it does not appear. The prolon- 

 gation of this beariuir would strike tiie Penna. R. R. at or near 

 the bridge by which the IJlack Rock Road crosses it. The rail- 

 road cutting is here some thirty feet deep for over half a mile 

 in decomposed mica schist, without a trace of steatite, but at 

 Rosemont, a distance, measured at right angles to the strike, of 

 about half a mile, and in direction due west, it again appears, 

 northeast of the railroad. Near Darbj' Creek, about two and a 

 half miles S. 55° W. are other outcrops, the course being S. 55^ 

 W., beyond which it widens into a broad belt of serpentine and 

 allied I'ocks to the West Chester road, identified by the pseudo- 

 morphs of serpentine after staurolite, the so-called bastard ser- 

 pentine. 



Blue Uill, Providence Township, is nearly in the prolongation 

 of this line, as also Walter Green's in Marple, 



The serpentine belt first mentioned has a similar change in 

 direction ; from Rose's quarry to a point on the Rarr farm, two 

 miles north from Br^'n Mawr, its direction is about N. 65° E., a 

 prolongation striking the Pennsylvania Railroad at a point half 

 a mile above Rosemont, whereas, at its first outcrop near Radnor 

 Station, it is about half a mile north of this assumed line, and 

 thence pursues a course about S. 75° or 80° W. The outcrop is 

 about half a mile in length. Both terminations are abrupt, and, 

 in situations in which, if continuous, its continuation should be 

 plainly visible. 




1878.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 405 



December 3. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Thirty-four persons present. 



On Tsenia mediocanellata. — Prof. Leidi' exhibited two speci- 

 mens of tapeworms, Tsenia mediocanellata, both retaining the 

 head. These had been recently snbmitted to him for examination 

 by Dr. James J. Levick and Dr. Walter F. Atlee. Tapeworm ap- 

 pears not to be a common affection Avith us. Several physicians, 

 in extensive practice in this city, had informed him that they never 

 bad a case. During the last ten or fifteen years, from one to two 

 specimens annually had been submitted to him, but the present year 

 he had seen five specimens. He had been surprised to find that 

 all pertained to the species indicated. Formerly he supposed 

 that our common species was the Taenia solium, but later expe- 

 rience would indicate that the Tsenia mediocanellata is the more 

 common. The distinction between the two had been observed only 

 comparatively recently, so that no doubt many specimens formerly 

 attributed to the former actually belonged to the latter. 



When the head is present, the two species are readily distin- 

 guished. The Tsenia aolium, whose larval form is found in the 

 " measle" of pork, has the head provided with a crown of hooks. 

 Tsenia mediocanellata, derived from beef and mutton, has a 

 larger head, which is unarmed. The ripe segments arc also usually 

 readily distinguished in the two species. In the T. mediocanellata, 

 the ovaries are divided into man}' more pouches than in T. soliicm. 



In Dr. Levick's case, the man had been in the habit of eating 

 raw buft'alo meat. In one of the specimens exhibited, tlie suckers 

 of the head appeared as black si)ots, from the black pigment on ' 

 their interior surface. The genital apertures were also black from 

 the same cause. In the other specimen, the iiead appeared less 

 black from pigment about and around the position of the suckers, 

 and the genital apertures do not appear black. 



Mountain Soap of California — Prof. George A. Kcentg stated 

 that the so-called mountain soap lias a uniform, impure white color, 

 and is gritt}- to the touch. Examination with the lens does not re- 

 veal the composite nature of the substance, but when crushed (not 

 ground), and stirred with water, it assumes a pasty consistency 

 like Kaolinite, and by continued stirring with much water passes 

 into a milky suspension. From this in a short time a sandj' mate- 

 rial deposits, while the remainder reipiires manj^ hours to settle 

 in the water into a flocculent mass. Thus two portions Afere 

 obtained, a sandy one, A (45 per cent.), and a flocculent one, B 

 (55 per cent.), roughly. Both were dried over sulphuric acid. 




400 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1878. 



Anal^'sls of 1>: — 



Ignition fi. 70 per cent. 



Decomposed by II^SO^ 28.00 per cent. 



Al.,0, — i2.r.o 

 SiO, = 15.40 

 Dissolved by KIIO 38.30 per cent. (Amorphous SiOJ 



Insoluble residue 24.35 per cent. 



SiO., = 22.4 



Al,Os= 1-50 

 Not determined 2.075 



CaOK,0,Nai,0, i00.00~ 



B is, tlierelbre, a mixture of Kaolinite, opal silica, feklspalhic 

 mineral, and quartz. 



Examination of Tart A : — 



Ignitioa 12.24 



SiO., 69.40 



Al.,03 13.50 



Cab 0.60 



MgO 0.30 



Alkalies (difference) 4.00 

 100.10 



But this also parts into a soluble and an insoluble portion. 

 Insoluble 38.50 per cent. AlO"'=^t40 



Soluble 61.50 per cent. ^j J^-' ~ gg 



It is aI)solutel3' impossible to identify any species with certainty' 

 under these circumstances. 



December 10. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Twent3'-six members present. 



Aspidium aculeafinn in Pennsylvania. — At the meeting of the 

 Botanical Section of the Academy, held Dec. 9, 187S, Mr. Crozer 

 Griffith announced that while spending the past summer at Long 

 Pond, North Mountain, Sullivan Co., Pa., he had found A.spidium 

 aculeatum, Swz., A'ar. Braiuni. Koch, growing abundantly along 

 the watercourse at the foot of Ganogo Falls, in a rock^'^, cool, and 

 shaded locality'. These falls are near the junction of the southeast 

 corner of Sullivan and the northwest corner of Luzerne Counties, 

 perhaps within the boundary of the latter. 



So far as North America is concerned, this fern is distinctly a 

 northern species. Canadian botanists have observed it at Gaspe 

 and Temisconata, and from the north shore of Lake Huron to 

 Kamouraska, eastward and northward, in restricted localities. 




1818.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 407 



Tuckerman found it in the White Mountains of New Hampshire; 

 Rush credited it to the Green Mountains of Vermont, and it has 

 long been known to occur in that State at Mt. Willoughb}', and in 

 Smuggler's Notch at the base of Mt. Mansfield ; Frost found it 

 also near Brattleboro, Vermont ; Macrae, man^'^ j-ears ago, collected 

 it in the Adirondack Mountains, Essex Co., N. Y. In 1869, Mr. 

 Redfield found it at Stony Clove, in the Catskill Mountains, N. 

 Y., and in 1873, Mr. S. H. Hall collected it at Haines Falls, in the 

 Kaaterskill Clove of the same mountain^, these being our most 

 southern localities until now, when we find it in northeastern 

 Penns^-lvania, about latitude 41^ 20', and at an elevation of about 

 '2000 feet above tide. 



December 17. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Fort3'-one members present. 



A paper, entitled "Morpholog}- of the Limbs of An)phiuma, 

 and the probable Synonymy of the Species," b}' John A. R3'der, 

 was presented for publication. 



The deaths of Eli Geddings, M.D.,a correspondent, and Samuel 

 J. Reeves, a member, wei'e announced. 



The Publication Committee reported in favor of the publication 

 of the following papers in tlie Journal of the Academj-; — 



"Descriptions of new species of fossils from the Pliocene Clay 

 Beds between Limon and Moen, Costa Rica, together with notes 

 on previously known species from there, and elsewhere in the 

 Caribbean Area." By VVm. :\I. Gabb. 



"Descriptions of Caribbean Miocene Fossils" By Wm. M. 

 Gabb. 



December 24. 



The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 



Fifteen persons present. 



A paper, entitled, " On the Land Shells of the ^lexican Island 

 of Guadaloupe, collected by Dr. E. Palmer," by Wm. G. Binney, 

 was presented for publication. 




40S PROCEEDINGS OF THK ACADEMY OF [1W78. 



December 31. 

 The President, Dr. Rusciienberoer, in the chair. 

 Thirt3'-seven persons present. 



Mineralogical Notes : liandife. — Professor George Aug. Kcenig 

 laid before the Academy some specimens of granite from the 

 neighborliood of Philadelphia, showing an incrustation or coating 

 of a canary or lemon-colored substance, which he had analyzed. 

 This substance is probably crystalline, with generally an earth}' 

 habitus. It is translucent, with a fine yellow color, and a hardness 

 from 2-3. Owing to the impossibility of complete separation 

 from the underlying orthoclase, the specific gravity was not deter- 

 mined. 



Heated in a closed tube, the mineral 3'ields a small quantit}' of 

 water (not acid), and turns to orange-red. Heated in the forceps 

 in a strong oxidizing flame, it becomes shining black. It dissolves 

 in a bead of microcosmic salt with effervescence (CO.,), imparting 

 to the glass the characteristic yellowish-green color of uranium, 

 changing to bluisli-emerald green in the reducing flame. Concen- 

 trated cohl hydrochloric acid dissolves it before ignition ; after 

 ignition only hot acid dissolves it complete!}'. On no other part 

 of the rock would hydrochloric acid i)roduce effervescence, except 

 where the yellow crust was visible. It is reasonably but not ai)- 

 soiutely certain, therefore, that the substance examined was not a 

 mixture of calcite with the yellow material. The quantitative 

 analjsis was made with 47 mlgrs. of material, as follows : The 

 substance was put into a platinum boat, and brought to beginning 

 red heat in a tube of hard glass, 6 inches long, ^\ bore, the tube 

 being in horizontal position, and looselj^ stoppered at the open 

 end. Water condensed in the cold part of the tube. While the 

 one end was yet in the flame, the front part of the tube was 

 severed by means of a red hot glass rod, and immediatel}' weighed. 

 Weighed again after complete drying, the difference (2.0 mgrs.) 

 being water. The substance weighed now 43 mgrs. It was 

 digested with HCl until the residue was perfectly' white, a strong 

 effervescence taking place. Insoluble ^^''^rt weighed 1G.4 mgrs. 

 (This is orthoclase and quartz, both quite insolul)le in acids.) The 

 real substance was, therefore, 30.6 mgrs. Uranium was separated 

 from calcium by converting the latter into sulphate, and precipi- 

 tating it with H volumes of strong alcohol. CaSO^ = 2L-2 mgrs. 

 = 9.67 mgrs. CaO. It was again determined by ammoniuna oxa- 

 late, 9.64 mgrs. CaO. After evaporation of the alcohol, uranium 

 was precipitated by ammonium hydrate, and weighed 9.5 mgrs. 

 U,0,. 




1878.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 409 



Percentage composition, 



CaO =32.50 requires CO^ = 25.49 

 U,03 = 31.63 " " = 4.83 



H;o = 6.53 



COj =29.34 (difference) CO, = 30.32 (calculated). 



100.00 

 CaCOa : U^CO, : H,0 = 5.3 : 1 : 3.3 



or, Ca5U2C60jo'+ 3H,0. 



Qualitatively this mineral is identical .vith Liebigite, but tlie 

 ratio and the percentage of water is very different. Liebigite 

 has a fine green color. Yoglite is green likewise, contains copper, 

 and has twice the quantity of water. 



Thus: Liebigite = CaU.CO, + 20H.,O 

 Yoglite = Cu,Ca.,U.,(560,9 + UH.O 

 Randite = Ca^UjCgO,^ + SH^O 



The name is proposed in lionor of Mr. Theo. D. Rand, of Phila- 

 delphia, who mentioned some qualitative tests with this mineral to 

 the author some two j-ears since. The specimens were obtained 

 from Dr. A. E. Foote. It is self-evident that furtlier examination, 

 with a more liberal supply of material, is needed to establish this 

 mineral thoroughly as a new species. 



27 




410 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1878. 



'I'lic following reports were read and referred to the I'lihlieatioii 

 Coiiunittee : — 



REPORT OF THE PRESIDENT FOR THE YEAR 

 ENDING NOVEMliER 30, 1878. 



The progress of the Aoadein}' during the year has been satis- 

 factory. The means to facilitate investigations in the several de- 

 ])artnients of natural science have at no time been g'*eater since the 

 foundation of tlie Society. Valuable additions to tlielibrar}' have 

 l)een made I)}' exchange of the Academy^'s publications for those 

 of kindred societies at home and al)road, by the generosity of 

 authors and editors, and largely b}' the I. Y. Williamson Library 

 Fund. Most of the collections of natural olijects have been con- 

 siderably augmented. 



Materials awaiting investigation and stud}- are al)undant, and 

 the records of information relative to every department of natural 

 history are not more numerous in any library in the country-. All 

 these rtiaterials and means of stud}- are accessilile to those inte- 

 rested in the pursuit of knowledge of natural olijects. It is no 

 fault of the Academy's organization or policy that the number dis- 

 posed to avail themselves of these advantages is not greater than 

 it is. All are invited, and all who accept the invitation to work 

 in the building are cordiall}- welcomed, and the resources of the 

 museum and library- are opened to them. 



The financial condition of the Society has somewhat improved. 

 The necessary expenses exceed the income of the 3'ear about five 

 hundred dollars. 



The present policy, which it is hoped will be always maintained, 

 is to conduct the atiairs of the Academy in such manner that it 

 will remain free from debt, as it is now. 



During the year 28 members and 32 correspondents have been 

 elected, and during the same period the record shows that four 

 members have resigned ; 16 members and 11 correspondents have 

 died, so that only 8 members »and 21 correspondents have been 

 added to the membership of the Society. The income of the 

 Aeaden)y is to some extent dependent upon the number of its 

 members. 




18Y8.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF THILADELPHIA. 411 



Thanks to tlie generosity and public spirit of Mr. I. Y. Wil- 

 liamson and the late Dr. Thomas B. Wilson, a library fund has 

 been established which is sufficient to procure almost all new and 

 current publications; though not enough to suppl}' ever^^ standard 

 work which naturalists may desire to consult. It may be said, 

 however, that it assures a continuous increase of the library at a 

 rate of about five hundred volumes a year. 



An adequate pHblication fund is very 'much needed. Including 

 the bequests of Mrs. Elizabeth P. Stott, Augustus E. Jessup, and 

 Isaac Barton, the total income applicable to publication is about 

 $700. 



It is believed that the prosperty of the Academy depends lai-gel}^ 

 on its publications, and without them it would be unknown and 

 virtually cease to exist in a scientific sense. They constitute a 

 bond of relationship with societies engaged in like pursuits in all 

 parts-of the world and make the Academy known to them and them 

 to tlie Academy. Indeed the Journal and Proceedings are the 

 vocal organs of the Society through the- functions of wdiich it holds 

 communication with the naturalists in all civilized countries. Con- 

 sisting chiefly of records of discoveries in natural science made by 

 members of the Society, the}'^ contribute to the history of scientific 

 progress. The respectability of the Academy is measurably de- 

 pendent on the importance of the discoveries announced in these 

 I)id)lications ; and their quality is the criterion of the Academy's 

 scientific character at home and abroad. Their value and import- 

 ance cannot be pi'ecisely reckoned in money's worth. The}' en- 

 courage students to labor, for it ma}' be safely conjectured that 

 few would engage in original investigations without assurance of a 

 way to make known their discoveries to the scientific world. 



Besides, they bring to the library very essential and important 

 additions. During the past year the xXcadem}- has received in 

 exchange periodicals and serials from 45 editors and from 240 

 societies, or 285 publications, which, if the Academy ceased to 

 publish, could not be procured for less than about $1400. 



The Pul)lication Committee carefully scrutinizes all expendi- 

 tures, and spares no i)ains to secure econom}' in the execution of 

 the work assigned to it. Important communications are some- 

 times rejected solely for want of means to publish them. SjJme 

 authors contribute the plates necessary to illustrate their de- 




412 PROCEEDINOS OF THE ACADKMY OP [1878. 



scriptions ralhor llifiii their work should not appear under author- 

 ity of the Academy's imprint; but there are many students whose 

 financial condition will not permit them to give more than the re- 

 sults of their own labor. 



The manufacture of the Journal of the Academy and of the 

 Proceedings of the Academy costs, on an average of the past 

 three jears, $1740 a year. This sum includes the expense of 

 paper, printing, plates, and binding. The authors of the papers 

 published receive no pecuniary compensation for their labors. 

 The difference between the sum ($700) applicable to publishing 

 and the actual cost, is derived from the fees of a small number of 

 subscribers and the general income of the Academy-, and in 

 amount is equal to one-fourth of tlie annual revenues, exclusive 

 of trust and special funds. 



IJesides the "Journal"' and "Proceedings" publications of an- 

 otlier kind should he made from time to time for the benefit of 

 tliose students who reside at distant points, as well as of those 

 who live in the city. It is not entirely satisfactory to possess 

 manuscript catalogues of the library and of the collections. It is 

 desirable to have a descriiitive or indicative list of specimens in 

 each class of the several collections in the museum, so arranged 

 that a naturalist might be at once informed by reference to it 

 whether the object lie wishes to inspect is in the Academ}', before 

 seeking it in the museum. Such lists carefully i)repared and 

 printed, to be furnished on application on such terms as may be 

 considered proper, would make known what is in the museum as 

 well as its deficiencies, and indirectly prompt friends of the insti- 

 tution at a distance to assist in supplying desiderata. The pre- 

 paration and publication of lists of the kind would be expensive ; 

 but the advantages flowing from them to the Academy and to 

 naturalists would fully compensate their cost. 



It is believed that $2500 a year, economically expended, would 

 not be more than enough to secure the publication of all matter 

 that the Academ}' should issue under its imprint. It is therefore 

 earnestly recommended that an effort be made to increase the 

 funds applicable to this object suflSciently to yield an annual reve- 

 nue of $2500; that is, an addition of $1800 to the yearly income 

 appropriate to publication. 



Relieved of the necessity to contribute to the cost of publica- 

 tion it is probable that the general income of the Academy will 




IStS.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 413 



be suflScient to defray the current expenses for salaries, warniino^, 

 lighting, freight, postage, stationer}', etc., even after the comple- 

 tion of the edifice. 



Attention is respectfully invited to the necessity of establishing 

 a curators' or museum fund of five or six hundred dollars a year, 

 to be expended for mounting, properly displaying, and preserving 

 objects in the various collections, and procuring whatever may be 

 necessar\'' to their completeness. 



Fees of initiation and life-membership might be appropriated 

 to this purpose. In the course of a few years the amount neces- 

 sary to create the fund required would be accumulated, and then 

 those same resources could be made available for some other ne- 

 cessity. 



Deficiencies and defects now noticeable in the museum are in a 

 great degree fairly ascribable to the want of a curators' fund. A 

 brief reference to its present aspect may possiblj* make this ap- 

 parent. 



The museum is the aggregate of gifts received in the course of 

 the past sixt3'-six years from ver}' many generous persons, some 

 giving one or more specimens and some entire special collections. 

 Those departments having numerous and enthusiastic votaries 

 have grown greath', while those which have attracted compara- 

 tively few students are ver}' slenderly furnished. This inequality 

 of representation of the several classes of objects is inevitable in 

 this museum, which originated in and is entirely dependent upon 

 individual bounty for its formation; and, until within the past 

 three 3'ears, upon unpaid labor exclusively for its arrangement, 

 and the suitably mounting and display of specimens. Yet, in 

 spite of a want of sufficient means for the purpose, the thousands 

 of valuable and rare objects collected here are carefully protected 

 against the ordinary causes of deterioration and loss. Fragile 

 and perishable specimens, which were presented more than sixt}' 

 years ago, are still quite perfect. The richness of some of the 

 collections in unique and type specimens, placed here from time 

 to time since the early days of the institution, is well known. In 

 this connection no complaint can be reasonably made. Xo pains 

 have been spared to secure the preservation of specimens placed 

 in charge of the curators, and no loss can be fairlj' ascribed to 

 their want of attention or care. ' 



Had there been power at the outset to form a museum on a 




414 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1878. 



carefully matured plan to l)e realized under competent direction, 

 all its departments, we may leasonably conjecture, would have 

 been provided for alike. Or, had there been at the commencement 

 of the formation of this museum by individual contrilnitors, each 

 according to his taste or opportunity, a curators' fund ap|)li(;able 

 to tlie purchase of specimens requii'cd in the representation of a 

 class or order, there would be no inecpiality in the several depart- 

 ments noticeable at tiiis time. And it secnis not extravagant to 

 suppose that the creation of a curatoi's' fund at this time would 

 furnish the means to supply all deficiencies in the course of a few 

 years. . 



A museum, according to the significance of the term, is a 

 place of instruction. To render it elfective to this end all the col- 

 lections in it are requii'cd to be arranged according to the accepted 

 systems of classificati(Hi, and all the specimens illustrative of the 

 class, order, or family to which they belong, to be appropriately 

 located as far as practicable in an unbroken, continuous series, so 

 that their relations may be readily observed. 



This is illustrated in the cabinet of minerals, which has been 

 arranged in accordance with an accepted system of classification 

 based on composition. A student, b}' the aid of Dana's Manual 

 of Mineralogij^ maj' follow the arrangement from beginning to 

 the end. 



An\l with the assistance of Gray's Manual^ a student ma}' learn 

 the accepted system of classification of plants in the botanical 

 collections of the Acailemy, which are now so far arranged as to 

 be available for study, thanks to the spontaneous labors of botani- 

 cal experts of the Society. 



But want of space has rendered such uniform arrangement of 

 some of the other collections impracticalile. The mollusca, for 

 example, which are mostly represented onlj' by their shells, cannot 

 be arranged in a uniform series, including the soft parts of the 

 animals which are necessaril}' preserved in alcohol, unless waxen 

 or papier mache models of them were substituted in their place, 

 a substitution which is expensive and unattainable without money. 



Want of space is an insurmountaltle l)arrier to the location of 

 the mammals, large and small, in an unbroken series according to 

 a system of classification, each in its relative position, even if it 

 were essential that mastodons and mice should stand on the same 

 line of view. 




1818.1 NATURAL SCIENCES OF PEIILADELPHIA. 415 



It will be admitted by all that the miisenm is excessively 

 crowded. At least one-third of the cases on the Wilson gallery 

 raight be taken away, and then at least one-half of the birds conld 

 be removed from the remaining cases advantageously to the ap- 

 pearance of the museum, as well to those taking first lessons in 

 ornithology. At present this vast collection of birds is rather 

 stowed than displayed in the cases. 



One-tenth of the number of mounted birds judiciously selected 

 and artistically arranged to occupy all the cases in which the 

 twenty-six thousand specimens are now stowed — almost like 

 things in a ship — would seem to general observers a more attrac- 

 tive and complete collection than it is at present. Ornithologists, 

 however, for whose benefit the late Dr. Thomas B. Wilson devoted 

 so much care and money to enlarge the Academy's collection of 

 birds, regard the numerous representatives of each species in it to 

 be a prominent feature of its value which distinguisiies it among 

 the most complete in the world. Good faith and respectful re- 

 membrance of Dr. Wilson's bounty require that the Academy 

 should preserve it and endeavor to provide more space for its 

 accommodation rather than withdraw specimens from the collec- 

 tion until it suitably fits the room given to it now. 



Classification of objects and arrangement of them change under 

 the influence of experience and scientific progress; and architec- 

 tural construction and limited space may compel separation of 

 aflBliated collections and the location of parts of them in the 

 museum out of their appropriate j^lace in the accepted system of 

 classification. Such displacements may be admitted to be l)lem- 

 ishes in the arrangement of a museum without admitting that they 

 are not excusable for reasons just stated. Such unavoidable 

 defects of arrangement do not lessen the usefulness of the museum 

 to students. 



The continuous increase of the collections indicates that the 

 building should l)e completed as soon as practicable. An appli- 

 cation made to tiie Legislature of the State for aid in this con- 

 nection failed. The committee of the Academy charged with 

 the subject reported substantially, January 22, 1878, that it was 

 unadvisable to press the matter further at that time and was dis- 

 charged. 



During the past year valuable additions to the collections have 

 been made. Specimens pertinent to ethnics have become so numer- 




416 PROCEEDINGS OF THK ACADEMY OF [1878. 



Oils that tlic^- fill a room on the entresol floor in the southeast end 

 of the building, as well as a series of flat cases placed around tiie 

 middle room at the east end of the first floor. These collections, 

 which are very valuable, prove that interest in ethnology has 

 greatly increased among the members of the Society- during the 

 past few years. In popular estimation no department of natural 

 science is more important or more attractive. It is certainly 

 worthy of the fostering care of the Academy in the future. 



An arrangement of tiie coiichological cabinet in such manner 

 that fossil species shall be a])proi)riately intercalated in it, want of 

 space in the museum renders impracticable at present, although 

 the projjriety of such an arrangement is daily becoming more 

 apparent to proficients in conchological studies. 



It is conjectured that large and highly interesting collections 

 would come to the Academy if it could afford sufficient space for 

 their proper display and study. Proprietors are rarely willing to 

 give valuable collections or specimens to any institution known 

 to lack capacity to exhibit them in a suitable manner. 



Considerable collections and valuable specimens contributed to 

 the Academy b}' exhibitors at the International Exhibition of 

 1876, and confided to the care of the Smithsonian Institution for 

 delivery, will come to us after the contemplated building for the 

 National Museum at Washington has been completed. At present 

 they are mingled with gifts to that institution from the same 

 source, and will remain packed as they were for transportation 

 hence to Washington until a suitable place for their display has 

 been provided. 



The growth of the museum and the progress of the Academy, 

 as well as that of natural science, would be accelerated by the 

 immediate completion of tiie building according to the plans. It 

 is not extravagant to suppose it possible that the collections 

 made by the geological surveys of the State of Pennsylvania 

 might be confided to the care of the Academy, if that part of the 

 edifice whlfh has been intended to contain onlj- objects illustra- 

 tive of the natural history of Pennsylvania were now ready for 

 their reception. Collections of the kind while packed in boxes 

 are of no value; but when suitably mounted, labelled, and dis- 

 played the\f become continuously important to successive genera- 

 tions of students and observers; and if placed in proximity to a 




1878.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 417 



great general collection aixl a large and appropriate library, their 

 value is enhanced. 



Earnest desire to realize, without loss of time, plans devised for 

 benevolent purposes, may lead to the adoption of measures which 

 experience will prove to have been unwise. 



Assuming it to have been admitted that the building should be 

 finished, a question for the Academy to decide is whether it is 

 prudent to accept the inconveniences and losses incident to delay, 

 and rely exclusively on the benefactions of intelligent and gene- 

 rous citizens to complete the work which they have so admirably 

 begun, rather than seek an appropriation from the State treasur}^, 

 which may be obtained, if at all, under conditions that ma}'^ prove 

 to be embarrassing or unsatisfactory hereafter. 



Similar institutions are largely assisted from the public treasu- 

 ries of the States in which they are. The Congress of the United 

 States appropriates annually $20,090 to support the National 

 Museum at Washington under the direction of the Smithsonian 

 Institution. The Legislature of New York annually Azotes as 

 much to support the State Museum at Alban}', and it has appro- 

 priated nearly three-quarters of a million of dollars towards erect- 

 ing a suitable building in the city of New York for the American 

 Museum; and the Legislature of Massacliusetts has voted more 

 than a quarter of a million to aid the Museum of Comparative 

 Zoology of Cambridge. 



With such precedents in view, and considering that the Academy 

 is eminently charitable in all its uses and purposes and educational 

 in its character, and that all the work of its members is gratuitous, 

 the worthiness of the Society to liberal and substantial aid from 

 the State is scarcely to be doubted. 



At this time the building fund consists of onlj' $2344. More 

 than a hundred times this sum is probably needed 



The prospect of completing the building through the bount}^ of 

 individuals within a reasonable time is not now encouraging, but 

 may not be absolutely hopeless. 



it is unfortunately true that the stagnation of business generally 

 during the past three or four years has reduced incomes, and the 

 times are not propitious to obtain such large contributions as were 

 generously bestowed in tlie early days of this enterprise, but it is 

 also probably true that the proportion of well-to-do and opt>lent 

 citizens of liberal disposition is unchanged. Some may be found 

 willing to give substantial aid to the work ; and, as the cost of fire- 




418 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1878. 



proof construction is less now than it was when the corner-stone 

 of this ijuikling was laid, the aggregate sum necessary to be raised 

 will be proportionately less. 



The obstacle in the way of this enterprise is not in want of 

 ability in the couiinunity to aceouiplish it in spite of its great 

 cost, but in the inditterence of tlie public generally to the progress 

 of scientific pursuits among us. It is i)rol)ablc that the existence 

 of the Academy is unknown to thousands of our citizens; and of 

 those who are aware of its existence thousands have never been 

 inside of its doors, allhough it is among the institutions in the 

 prosperity of which intelligent riiiladelphians are supposed to be 

 interested. 



The value of knowledge of natural objects, and of the laws 

 which control their structure ami relations, is duly appreciated 

 chiefly bj- naturalists and students of nature ; those of the popu- 

 lation who are engaged in the numerous avocations affiliated more 

 or less closely with commerce, the useful arts, including archi- 

 tecture and manufactures of all kinds, are geuerall^'^ heedless of 

 this kind of information. They are mostly allured to the imi- 

 tative and decorative arts, painting, sculpture, music, the drama, 

 of various grades of quality. To persons of these classes, who 

 constitute the great majority of the population, and include most 

 of the opulent people of the city, natural science is unattractive. 

 They regard the pursuits of naturalists to be raerel}'^ the harmless, 

 dull, uninteresting amusements of stupid people; and some look 

 upon their labors as dangerous to religious belief: an erroneous 

 notion, which reminds us of the famous trial which took place 

 at Athens more than twent^'-two centuries ago. The Athenian 

 judges found their fellow-citizen Socrates, the wisest man of his 

 day, guilty "of busying himself with i)rying into things under 

 the earth and in the heavens, and making the worse appear the 

 better reason, and teaching the same to others; and of not be- 

 lieving in the gods acknowledged by the state, but in other new 

 divinities," and put him to death. 



The spirit manifested by those Athenian judges has not entirely 

 disappeared. The same intolerance of investigation of natural 

 things, for the sake of ascertaining truth, has existed in the i)opu- 

 lar mind from the daj's of Socrates to the present, though now 

 vastl}" abated and restrained. 



The most prominent wants of the Academy and the obstacles 

 to their removal have been stated, not in expectation that thc^' 




1ST8.J NATURAL SCIENCES OF rHILADELPIIIA. HO 



may be very soon supplied, but under a belief that it is proper 

 that members should be informed of their nature, in order that 

 they may be considered, and such measures as in their jutlgment 

 may seem expedient be adopted. 



The annual reports of the curators, of the treasurer, of the 

 secretaries, librarian, and several sections, show the progress of 

 the Society during- the year. 



Professor J. (jibbons Hunt is delivering a course of very inter- 

 esting and instructive lectures before the Biological and Micro- 

 scopical Section, on the use of the microscope in the study of 

 cryptogamic botany. They are heard with great pleasure. The 

 course was commenced in Octoher, and will be continued until 

 April or May next. 



The number of persons who consult the library, it is believed, 

 has increased very nuuh. 



The average attendance at the stated meetings of the Academy 

 is 32 ; but onlj' about 4500 persons have visited the museum 

 through the year. 'IMiis fact suggests that in this city's population 

 of 800,000, the taste for natural history is not very general, antl 

 that the uninstructed man here, as well as everywhere, is more 

 interested in viewing specimens of his own genus and represen- 

 tation of their exploits by artists and poets than in samples of 

 any other part of the creation. A museum which contains lepre- 

 sentatives of almost ever}-^ kind of bird and shell in the whole 

 world, besides extensive collections in all departments of natural 

 history, it is su^jposed, should be attractive to great numbers of 

 people ; but experience siiows that only those who are intelli- 

 gently curious lind the i)leasurc of visiting it worth the ten cent 

 fee of admission. 



Let us not be discouraged by this experience. The imi)ortance 

 of sjjccial knowledge is slowly recognized The proportion of 

 educated and cultivated people in the city's population is very 

 much greater n('W than it was a century ago, and among them tlie 

 value of all the natural sciences is more widely aiul Justly appre- 

 ciated. It is more generally believed that soeUiiig to know pre- 

 cisel3^ what is knowable in any and every direction is of interest 

 and value to the community, and that such i)ursuits are worthy 

 of substantial encouragement. 



The whole is respectfully submitted, _, 



\y. 8. \V. IvUSCIlENlU'.lUJKa, 



President. 




420 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1878. 



REPORT OF THE RECORDING SECRETARY. 



The Recording Secretaiy respectfully reports that during tlie 

 year ending Nov, 30, 1878, twenty-eight niomhers and thirty-two 

 corre.si)ondents have been elected. 



Tiie following members have resigned : S. L. Shober, A. R. 

 Hall, G. Schwartz, and R. M. Girvin. 



Tlie deaths of sixteen members, and eleven correspondents, 

 whose names have been published in the current proceedings, have 

 been announced. 



Thirty-two pai)ers have been presented for publication as follows: 

 E. Goldsmith 3, Jacob Ennis 2, E. T. Cresson 2, J. A. Ryder 2, 

 Drs. Elliot Coues and H. C. Yarrow 2, Rev. H. C. McCook 2, Wm. 

 M. Gabb 2, C. A. White 1, Geo. A. Koenig 1, Wm. C. Stevenson, 

 Jr. 1, J. S. Kingsley 1, B. W. Barton 1, J. H. McQuillen, 1, 

 Charles Wachsmuth and Frank Springer 1, Alpheus Hyatt 1, 

 Wm. G. Mazyck and A. W. Vogdes 1, James Lewis 1, T. II. 

 Streets 1, H. C. Chapman 1, Theo. D, Rand 1, Victor W. Lyon 

 1, R. E. C. Stearns 1, Drs. Wm. H. Green and A. J. Parker 1. 



Twent3'-five of tliese papers have been printed in tlie Proceed- 

 ings, four have been withdrawn, and one remains to be reported 

 upon. The Publication Committee has recommended the publica- 

 tion of the two papers by the late Wm. M. Gabb, in the Journal 

 of the Academ3\ Thej' will form a valuable contribution to Ihe^ 

 geology of the Carribean area. 



Seventy-nine pages of the Proceedings for 1877, and three hun- 

 and twentA'-eight for 1878, have been published ; the volume for 

 the year will be illustrated by seven lithographic plates. 



Verbal communications have been made by Messrs. McCook, 

 Leid}', Martindale, Meehan, RedReld, Ryder, Koenig, McQuillen, 

 Allen, Lewis, Horn, Hunt, Goldsmith, Burk, Roth rock, Kelly, 

 Ennis, A. J. Parker, Wharton, Willcox, Letlman, Foote, Chatard, 

 Wells, Janewa}', Ford, Tryon, Potts, Evarts, Benjamin, Halde- 

 man, Barbeck, Chapman, Canb3', and Ashburner. Experience has 

 shown that if the secretary' were enabled to announce in advance 

 the communications to be made at each meeting, it would have 

 the effect of largely increasing the attendance. Reports of all tlie 

 communications of interest have regularly appeared in several of 




18Y8.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 421 



the morning papers, with, it is believed, the effect of increasing 

 the popular interest in the Society. 



Dr, C. N. Peirce was elected on Jan. 29 to fill a vacancy in the 

 Council made by the election of Dr. R. S. Kenderdine as Curator. 



Three members of the Finance Committee only having been 

 elected at the annual meeting, Messrs. S. Fisher Corlies and. C. S. 

 Bement were elected on Jan. 29 to complete the number required 

 by the by-laws. 



Art. I., Chap. XII. of the by-laws was amended by substituting 

 the words " at its first meeting" for the words " at the meeting in 

 January." 



Edw. J. Nolan, 

 Eecording Secj^etary. 



REPORT OF THE CORRESPONDING SECRETARY. 



The Corresponding Secretary begs leave to present the follow- 

 ing report of the business of his office during the year ending 

 Nov. 30, 1878. 



During the year thirty-two correspondents have been elected, 

 all of whom have been notified. 



Letters have been received from corresponding societies or 

 other institutions transmitting their publications or acknowledg- 

 ing the receipt of those of the Academy, numbering 105. 



Miscellaneous, individual, and circular letters, 13. 



Letters from correspondents acknowledging election, 50. 



During the year numerous letters of a nature too trivial to be 

 read before the Academy have been received, and many answered. 

 These, for the most part, have been from persons who are igno- 

 rant of the objects of the Academy', or who offer for sale unde- 

 sirable objects. 



In addition to letters, numerous pamphlets or books, and some 

 manuscripts for publication, have been received, the former have 

 been handed to the librarian, and the latter read before the 

 Academy. 



Respectfully submitted, 



Geo. H. Horn, M.D., 



Corresponding Secretary. 




4 22 



PROCEKDINGH OF THE AC.'ADEMY OF 



[1S78. 



REPORT OF Till-: LIliRARIAX. 



Tlie additions to tiie lilirary during the last six 3'ears liave been 

 steadily increasinir, the number received and recorded during the 

 twelve months ending Nov. 30, 1878, being 2946, or 248 more than 

 were received in lST7, and more tiian douljlc the numljer received 

 in 1873. 



Of tliese accessions 477 were volumes, 2344 pamphlets and part 

 of periodicals, and 125 maps, engravings, photograi)hs, etc.; 21(59 

 were octavos, 579 quartos, 02 folios, and 11 duodecimos. 



They were derived from the following sources: — 



Societies 1203 i Buroan of Education ... 2 



Editoi-s fiT") Jos. Lcidy 2 



•Isaiah V. Williamson Fund . 520 Pennsylvania Board of Centen- 



Authors Kil nia! ".Managers 2 



Wilson Fund 03 Nctlierland Centennial Coni- 



Dr. Robert Bridges .... 67 1 mission 2 



War Department 53 , Indian Museum 



Geological Survey of Xcw Zea- I James 'M. ^Slngraw .... 



land 29 Geo. W. Cliilds 



Publishers 21 , Council of tlie City of Man- 



Department of the Interior 



Conarroe Fund 



Geological Survey of India 



J. 11. Redfiold 



Engineer Department, U. S. A. 



Geological Survey of Pennsyl- 

 vania 



Minister of Public Works, 

 France 5 



Treasur}-^ Department . . . 



A. J. Parker 



East Indian Government . . 



Wm. S. Vaux 



Geological Survey of Canada . 



T. R. Peale 



Trustees of New York State 

 Librarj'- 



Heirs of Dr. Jos. Carson . . 



Ill Chester 



13 John S. Haines 



11 Smithsonian Institution . . 

 9 , Department of Agriculture 



6 ] S. S. Haldeman 



I Allen B. Lemmou 



6 C. F. Parker 



Pennsylvania Board of Agri- 

 culture 



]\rrs. Gabb 



3 T. C. Chamberlain .... 



3 Commissioners of Fairmount 



3 Park 



3 R. J. L. Guppy 



3 Department of Marine and 

 Fisheries, Canada .... 



2 Mariano Barceua 



2 



The}' were divided as follows: — 



Journals 20.~)7 j Voyages and Travels 



Geology 2G6 ' Ornithology 



Botany 



General Natural History 



Conchology 61 Agriculture 



100 Jledicine 

 93 Chemistrv 



Anthropology 



Anatomy and Physiology 



52 ! Entomology . . 

 46 i Phvsical Science 



History 44 1 Ichthyology 



40 

 22 

 21 

 17 

 17 

 15 

 14 

 14 




1878.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 423 



EiblioEcraphy 13 Helmintholoery 6 



Bioerapliy 11 Encycloppedias 5 



Herpotology 9 Mammalogy 4 



Mineralooy 9 Useful Arts 4 



Literature 6 



The large number of journals and periodicals received during 

 the 3"ear is consequent upon the efT'orts which have been made to 

 obtain supplies of deficiencies from corresponding societies and 

 editors. Most of the societies addressed on the subject have sent 

 such of the missing parts of their ])ublications as they could fur- 

 nisi). All the new scientific journals brought to the notice of the 

 Library Committee during the year have been obtained either b}" 

 exchange or subscription. 



The accessions have been catalogued immediately upon their 

 reception, and, in addition, the catalogue of the department of 

 general natural history has been completed, and the titles of nearly 

 all the works on anatomy and physiology, with the exception of 

 the pamphlets, have been entered on the cards. Reference cata- 

 logues of the departments of voyages and travels, and general 

 natural history' have been copied from the card entries l)y Mr. 

 Thomas P. Parker, who has also proceeded as rapidly as possible 

 with the numbering of the books. 



For tlie most valuable of the monographic and special works 

 we have again to acknowledge our indebtedness to the enlightened 

 liberality of Mr. Isaiah V.Williamson. In tlie expenditure of the 

 Williamson Fund care has been taken to order such works as are 

 of most importance to the student, which are not, for the most 

 part, to be found elsewhere in the cit}', and which give special 

 character to the library' of the Academy. All the books specinlly 

 applied for by the working members of the Academy' have been 

 promptly ordered, and nearly all received. 



For the reason stated in my last report, the general financial 

 depression, but few books have been bound during the j'car, such 

 expense being incurred only where it was absolutel3' necessary to 

 preserve the volumes from injury. 



All of which is respectfully' submitted, 



Edw. J. Nolan, 



Librarian. 




424 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY' f)F [1878. 



REPORT OF THE CURATORS. 



The Curators report that the Musentn of the Acadomy con- 

 tinues in good state of preservation, and has steadily advanced in 

 orderly arrangement, labelling, numbering, and cataloguing. 

 While such is the case we take the opportunity of directing atten- 

 tion to what ma}^ be viewed as a serious defect in our otherwise 

 valuable museum, one which greatly narrows its usefulness. We 

 allude to the inequality of our collections, the incomplete condi- 

 tion, and almost api)arent exclusion of certain departments, wliile 

 others are so richly or even excessively represented. This state 

 of things which we greatly regret is in a measure due to una- 

 voidable circumstances. Notwithstanding the main object the 

 Academy has had in view in forming and maintaining a museum, 

 it has never had the means to establish it in such a way as to 

 illustrate all classes, orders, and families of natural history-. The 

 museum has grown almost entirely through the gift of its mem- 

 bers and friends, of specimens and collections of specimens acci- 

 dentally picked up or sought as the favorites of collectors. While 

 we have thus become greatly enriched in oltjectsof more conspicu- 

 ous character, we have received comparatively few of the things of 

 less general interest, though of great proportionate value to the 

 completion of the whole natural series. An attendant evil on this 

 mode of growth of our museum, is that the means raised by the 

 Academy through the generosity of its members and patrons have 

 been insufficient to provide accommodation for the collections, 

 except in a crowded and disjointed condition unfavorable for ex- 

 hibition and study. Now that we have the more favorite depart- 

 ments of natural histor3' so well represented, we are hopeful that 

 the Academy' may be able to induce its friends to place sufficient 

 means at the disposal of the Curators, to make purchases, as 

 opportunities may present, of such objects as shall be required to 

 render the museum complete, and illustrate all departments of 

 both organic and inorganic nature. For this purpose com[)ara- 

 tively little means are required, even the sum annually of $500 

 for half a dozen years, would go very far towards giving the 

 museum that completeness which we feel is so desirable to enable 




1878.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 425 



the student to read the book of nature from the beginning to 

 end.' 



In regard to what has been done in the museum during the 

 j-ear we present a brief report of the able Curator in ciiarge: — 



Philadelphia, Dec. 12, 1878. 

 Dr. Jos. Leidy, 



Chairman of Board of Curators. 



Dear Sir: I herewith inclose the following report of work done 

 in the museum during the 3'ear : 



Mr. John A. Ryder has completed the re-labelling and arrange- 

 ment of the Ophidians, the Saurians, and the Batraehians, and a 

 similar re-arrangement and re-labelling of the collection of Fishes 

 has been commenced. 



The collections of mammal skins, birds, and insects have been 

 thoroughly examined ; also the alcoholic collections have been 

 attended to, and the alcohol renewed when necessary. The re- 

 labelling of the collection of minerals has been finished, and a num- 

 bered catalogue of the same prepared ; numbers will be attached 

 to each specimen corresponding with catalogue. The large in- 

 crease of donations to this department has required the addition 

 of six cases. 



Progress is being made in the labelling and arrangement of the 

 bird collection; this work being done by Mr. Spencer Trotter. 



Most of the specimens presented, deposited, and purchased dur- 

 ing the year have been labelled, and put in their proper places. 



Respectfully, C. F. Parker. 



Besides the additions to the museum announced in special re- 

 ports of Conservators of Sections, the Curators present the fol- 

 lowing list: — 



The most important donations consist of a superb articulated' 

 specimen of a male Gorilla, and a 3^oung animal, in alcohol, from 

 Ogove River, Africa, presented by Dr. Thomas G. Morton, and the 

 original specimen of a slab of red sandstone, with foot prints of 

 the Sauropus primrevus, of Lea, from the lower coal strata of 

 Pottsville, Pa., presented by Dr. Isaac Lea. 



Mammals. — Phascolarctos cinereus, Belideus breviceps, B. tas- 

 inanoides, Phalangista, Macropus (foetus fem.), and Ornithorhyn- 

 chus anatinus, eight specimens from Australia, presented by 

 Dr. Clive DaCosta Belisario. Zapus hudsonicus, Geomys bursa- 



' It may be worthy of note, that the Academy has never been able to place 

 at the disposal of the Curators annually even a few dollars for the purctiase 

 of desirable specimens. 

 28 




42G PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1878. 



liiis, 2 Soiex Cooperi, Ilespciomys leticogaster, 2 II. leiicopiis, 3 

 tlo. vai'. sonoriensis, Evotomys rulilu.s, 2 Arvicola aiistcrus, rt'iog- 

 nalhus hi.spidiis, from Fort Sisseton, Dakota, Dr. C. K. Mc- 

 Chesney, U. S. A. Nine skulls and skins of Aluatta palliata, 

 Cebus liypoleucus, Sapajou nielanodiir, Felis niaragaya, Dico- 

 tyles torquatus, D. lal)iatus, 2 Cerviis, Arctopitiiecus castaiiei- 

 ceps, and Tapirus, from Costa Kica, Wm. M. (iabl). Mounted 

 skeleton of Kat Kangaroo, Joseph Jeaties. lieliileiis llaviventer, 

 riiiladelpliia Zoological Scjciety. Three sknlls ami skin of a 

 squirrel, Wyoming, Dr. J. Van A.Carter, Tootli of spei'm wiiale, 

 Dr. Isaac Lea. 



Birds. — A 3'oung male IJahl Kagle, presented by George M. 

 Tatham. Nest and eggs of the Snowbird, Giles Co., Va., Dr. II. 

 Ilaupt, Jr. Six bird skins fioin Brazil, Mr. Sarniiento. Kggs 

 of Penelope grayi, Geo. Pavonaiiiis. Nests of American Gold- 

 finch and Indigo birds, J. O. Shininu'l. 



Beptiles and Fishes. — Two Jaeare.Tlirasops ahaetulla and f]laps, 

 from Brazil, Mr. Evans. Two jars of snakes, from Alal»ama, 

 Dr. Jose[)h K. Corson. Skin of Boa, from Brazil, Mr. Sarniiento. 

 Two Ophibolus doliatus, S. P. .Monks. Shed skin of Colu!)er, John 

 A. Krider. Tropidonotus leberis, II. C. Davis. Limb bones of 

 the Leather Turtle, New Jersey, John Ford. 



Twenty-seven bottles with fishes, etc., obtained during a cruise 

 of tlie U. S. shi|) Portsmouth, 1872-75, in the Pacific; also a mi- 

 nute Balloon Fish from the Pacific, presented by Dr. W. H. Jones, 

 U. S. N. Amphioxus lanceolatus, from Mediterranean, Dr. H. E. 

 p]varts. Young Shark, Pacific, Mr. W. M. Rodes, Chief Engi- 

 neer U. S. Coast Survey. Buffalo Fish, Ouachita River, Ark., 

 Dr. G. W. Lawrence. Flops sanrus and Echeneis remora, from 

 Atlantic, Mr. Holbrook. Two bottles of fishes, Alaska, Dr. Geo. 

 H. Horn. Dental apparatus of Z3'gobates jussieu, Dr. Isaac Lea. 



MvUusks. — A bottle of Ascidians, New York harbor, presented 

 by Dr. George H. Horn. 



Articulates. — Twenty-seven bottles minute Crustaceans, etc., 

 dredged in the Pacific, during a crui.se of the Portsmouth, 1872- 

 75, presented by Dr. W. H, Jones, U. S. N. Twenty-one species 

 Crustaceans dredged otf the coast of Massachusetts, presented by 

 Dr. T. H. Streets. 



Thelyphonus giganteus, Florida, Dr. J. H. Janeway, U. S. A. 

 Large Seolopendra obtained living in this city, and probably in- 




I 



1878.] NATURAL SCIEXCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 427 



troduced in some packing material from tlie West Indies; also 

 Hippa talpoldea, from John Ford. Squilla ampnsa, Fortress 

 Monroe, S. Powell. Nest of Trap-door Spider, from California, W. 

 S. Yanx, Four specimens of insect architecture, Rev. H. C. Mc- 

 Cook. Gall, from California, E. Goldsmith. Three bottles of Cirri- 

 peds, from New York harbor. Dr. George H. Horn. 



Radiates and Protozoans. — Strongjlocentrotus lividus, from 

 Nantes, France. Presented hy Dr. Isaac Lea. A beautiful coral, 

 Halomitra pileus, Sandwich Islands, W. S. Yanx. Sertularia an<l 

 3 species Sponges, Fortress Monroe, N. C, from S. Powell. 



Fossils — Two large frames, with fossil foot-prints, from Con- 

 necticut; slab of Triassic shale with rain-drop marks and sun-dried 

 cracks, from Gwjnedd, Pa.; Pentacnnus briareus, from lias, Eng- 

 land, Dr. Isaac Lea. 



Molar of Mastodon, from York Co. Pa., Mr. Snyder. Bones of 

 Crocodile, etc., near Hornerstown, N. J., T. A. Conrad. Sharks 

 teeth, vertebne, shells, echinoderms, etc., from the marl of Yin- 

 centtown, N. J., C. B. Barrett. Crinoids from Canton, Oliio, and 

 Crawfordsville, Indiana, J. W. Pike. Dorycrinus mississiplensis, 

 Keokuk, Iowa, Gen. W. ^Y. Belknap. Clupea humilus, from ter- 

 tiary of Wyoming, Dr. Joseph Leidy. Cetacean bones, Miocene 

 of Ya., Prof. Jeffries Wyman. Fossil wood, niimerous Eudea dic- 

 hotoma, and 2 rock specimens. Col. T. M. Bryan. Favosites 

 niagarense, Jackson Co., Ky., W. S. Yanx. Yertebra of a 

 Plesiosauroid, Arkansas, Dr. G. W. Lawrence. Molar of Bison 

 and rib fragments of Manatee, from near Tallahassee, Florida, 

 Prof. S. S. Haldeman. Bones of deer, bear, weasel, etc., from a 

 cave, Bedford Co., Pa., Mr. Wm. Hartley. 



EUinologit-al and Bliscellaneous. — Indian axe, Moorestown, N.J. , 

 E. D. Stokes. Carved drinking cup, from Fiji Islands, Dr. J. P. 

 Befhell. Plaster model of the great pyramid of Cheops, from Wm- 

 H. French; and water-proof coat, made from the intestines of 

 bear, Alaska, Dr. W. H. Jones. Terra-cotta heail, found near 

 Nashville, Tenn., and fragments of stone axe, Holmesburg, Pa., 

 T. R. Peale. Four stone implements, Santa Cruz Island, Cal. 

 Stone axe and necklace, from Oahu, Sandwich Islands. Idol 

 from ruins of a temple near Honolulu. Ava cup found witli the 

 idol. Dr. W. H. Jones, U. S. N. Water-tigiit basket, of the Pima 

 Indians of Arizona, from J. B. Ellis. 



Two conical caps of the Spatiie, or the Trooly Palm, feather 




428 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACAPEMY OF [1878. 



liead-dicss, skin poucli, Cassava grater, tlirce native ))askets, one 

 used for carrying children, etc., on the hack, from Britisii Guiana; 

 two marten skins, dressed by the Utc Indians, from Colorado; 

 stone adze, with carved handle, Xew Zealand ; do. Hawaii, Sand- 

 wich Islands; rattles,'' Shak-shak," used l)y the Caril)S in dan(;ing, 

 paddle, used also as war club and seat, sandals, and carved rattles, 

 from British Guiana; shield of" Roaring Bull," a Comanche chief, 

 scalp of a Comanche Indian, do. of a Modoc Indian, tanned squirrel 

 skin, Idaho; saddle-blanket, made by the Xavajo Indians of nor- 

 thern New INIexico ; feather head-dress, of the Macusi Indians, of 

 British Guiana; boat with open ends, used to navigate dangerous 

 rivers, made of a single piece of bark, bj' the Accawois tribe of 

 Indians, British Guiana; a collection of the manufactures of the 

 Indians of British Guiana, consisting of two fans, two wicker 

 trays, two baskets, ^latapi, or Cassava squeezer, three bark shoes, 

 sail of the pith of the Ite palm, maqnami, or whips, I»ow, and 

 stone-pointed arrows, blow-gun, and poisoned arrows, two canoe 

 paddles; bamboo fiddle, with bow, drum and sticks, child's ham- 

 mock, material for making liammock, watsapura, or flute, rattle 

 of a dancing pole, candle, etc , from British Guiana ; and a hat, 

 native work of Hawaii, Sandwich Islands, presented by Prof. S. 

 S. Haldeman. 



Cast of face, from a mound, Greenup Co., Kentuck3% from W. 

 R. Mercer. Indian stone axe, Ashley River beds. South Carolina, 

 from Geo. C. Lewis. Fragment of Indian pottery, containing 

 crushed tourmaline, do. having the appearance of being marked 

 with an ear of corn, Iredell Co., X. C. ; fragments of human jaw, 

 stone axe, and ornamented copper-plate, found in a mound 20 

 miles S. E. of Cedar Key, Florida, presented by Jos. Willcox. 

 Indian pestle, INloorestown, K J., from A. D. Trimble. Four 

 stone implements, Pennsylvania, from Dr. Geo. H. Horn. Stone 

 spear-head, Havre de Grace, Md., from C. A. Blake. 



3Iinerals. — Labradorite, Lalu-ador, E. R. Beadle. 



Two Arkansites, Ludlamite, and a fine Orthoclase, C. S. Bement. 



A case of ]Minerals (24 drawers) collected by the late Hugh 

 Davids, Esq.; also, sixteen specimens from various localities, con- 

 sisting of Corundum, Thulite, ^lovintain Cork, Grahamite, Topaz, 

 Breunerite in Talc, Scheelite on Quartz, Leucaugite, Pyropissite, 

 Margarodite and Chlorophane, Dufrenite, Clintonite, Zircon, 

 Sphene, and Azurite, etc., Mrs. Hugh Davids. 




1878.] NATURAL SCIENOES OF PHILADELPHIA. 429 



Agate, and Geode of Liiuonite, Argentine Republic, Moses A. 

 Dropsie. Twent3--five Am^-gdaloid rocks, from Scotland, Prof. J. 

 Duns. Barite, Brown Co., Kansas ; Magnesite, Texas, Lancaster 

 Co., Pa., Prof. A. E. Foote. Vermiculite in Chlorite schist, Dolo- 

 mite with Apatite and Talc, Steatite Quarry-, above Manajunk, Pa., 

 John Ford. Hematite, Morgantown, N. C, Col. B. S. Gaither. 

 Olean oil, McKean Co., Pa.; Lubricating oil. Wood Co., W. Va., 

 Morris W. Harkness. Indurated Talc, Black Horse, E. Bradford, 

 Chester Co., Pa., W. D. Hartman. Limonite, Marble Hill, ^lont- 

 goniery Co., Pa., Russell Hill. Two flue specimens of Corundum, 

 Hog-back ^It., Jackson Co., X. C, Joseph Jeanes. Emerylite, 

 Jetferisite, Oligoclase, and Corundum, Newlin, Chester Co., Pa., 

 W. AV. Jefferis. 



Magnesite in Serpentine with Cliloiite, Putnam Co., X. Y. ; 

 Chliuochlore, Chester Co., Pa.; Oolitic Marble, Leavenworth, In- 

 diana ; Black and Crinoidal Marble, Actinolite, Glacier Roseg, 

 Switz., Dr. Isaac Lea. 



Forty-six minerals, and eight rocks, consisting of the following: 

 Spinal in Chlorite, light-brown Tourmaline, green ditto in Granite, 

 Corundum, ChlorastroliLe in Trap, Hydrodolomite with Serpentine 

 and Chromite, Dewe^lite, nodules of Geyserite, Efflorescence of 

 Salt, group of Quartz crystals, Glauberite, Turquois, pale Rubel- 

 lite in decomposing Albite, Corundum with partial metamorphosis 

 into Ripidolite, ditto in Ri))idolite and blue Corundum, Zinc 

 Staurolite, Quartz with Sard, Quartz found with Apatite, Hyalite, 

 Garnet, flattened crystal in Muscovite, calcareous Tuf:x, Musco- 

 vite, Menaccanite, Flint, Brookite, Jade, Calcite, Hercynite pseud.- 

 after Corundum, Feldspar associated with Corundum, Ceylon, 

 Chlorite from Franklin, Macon Co., N. C, Orthoclase containing 

 Quartz crystals, Biotite schist, Aragonite, Cypoline,etc., presented 

 by Dr. Jos. Leid3\ 



Thirty-six minerals, and forty-four rocks from various localities, 

 consisting of Phyllite, Bronzite, Stibnite, Topaz passing into 

 Ma.rgarodite, Nuttabergite, Tourmaline, Apophyllite and Stilliite, 

 Calcite, Albite, Hypersthene and Pyrrhotite with Quartz, Kainite, 

 Kieserite, Stassfurtite, blue Quartz, Delawarite, Cassinite, Len- 

 nilite. Hyalite, Molybdenite, Apatite in Talc, Velvet Limonite, 

 Chalcopyrite in Gneiss, Tremolite, Oligoclase, Topaz, Willemite, 

 Gneiss with Lime Uranite, Pyrite, Idiocylopbanous Calcite, Mlila- 

 kolite. Chlorite, and Antholite, etc., Theo. D. Rand. 




430 PROCKEDI.NOS OF THE ACADEMY OP [187S. 



Calcite, Geode of Quartz, <lilto of Cliak-eilouN', (Vori) Ki'oUnU-, 

 Iowa, Dr. J. M. Slialfcr and Hon. C. F. Davis. Limcjiiite, Gneiss, 

 Manganese, from .Moigaiitown, N. C, Col. T. G. ^Valton. iSpliene, 

 Pyroxene, lIornlilentle,wliite A ugite, Serpentine, Gurhofite, PyriLe, 

 Trap, etc., S. A. .Monks. 



Meteorite, N. C; Corundiiin, Mnscovite, Quartz, Apatite, Stau- 

 rolites, pseudomorph (Quartz, Biotite, Jeffersonite, Sussex Co. N. 

 J.; Orthoclase, Galeiiite with Blende, PvuLile in Quartz, Alexander 

 Co., N. C, Joseph Wilk'ox. 



Fine large si)eciuien of Lilac Fluor Spar, Cumberland, England, 

 Wm. S. Vaux. 



Calcite, St. Louis, IMo. ; Tourmaline. Warren, N. IL; Apatite 

 with Feldspar and Epidote, Jeti'erson Co., N. Y.; Chilenite, Chili, 

 in exchange. 



Dnfrenite, Lava, from Vesuvius; two crystals of smok3' Quartz, 

 two Fluorites, six crystals of Amazon Stone, one cluster of crys- 

 tals of ditto, from Pike's Peak, Col.; Rutile, Lincoln Co, Ga.; 

 Moonstone, Del. Co., Pa.; Arkansite, Hydrotitanite, Perofskite, 

 ditto Cubo-octahedrons, from Magnet Cove, Ark.; Elteolite, Ozark 

 Mts., Ark.; Stilbite, Phila., purchased. 



Kespectfidly submitted by 



Joseph Leidy, 

 Chairman of Curators. 



REPORT OF BIOLOGICAL AND MICROSCOPICAL 

 SECTION. 



The Microscopical and Biological Section of the Academy, in 

 presenting their report for 1878, state that the year has been one 

 of unusual interest in the Section. 



Meetings have been held twice a month with an average attend- 

 ance of 44 persons. 



At most of the meetings papers were read on subjects in which 

 the microscope is used for research, or on strictly biological mat- 

 ters. Among our contributors wei'e Drs. J. G. Hunt, Lautenl)ach, 

 A. J. Parker, Pierce, F. Y. Green, U. S. X , Seller, M'Quillen, Rev. 

 Dr. McCook, Messrs. Pells, Lewis, Ryder. Perot. J. B. Zentmeyer, 

 and C. Zentmeyer, and the Director, R. S. Kenderdine. 



Prof. J. G. Hunt, M.D., will give a course of lectures on Crj^p- 

 togamic Botany, extending through the winter and spring of 1870. 




1878.J NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 431 



All thememlters of the Acaclem3' are cordiall^y invited to attend 

 them. 



The membership of the Section is nearly 80. Two were added, 

 one died, and four resigned during the year. 



Nine contributors have also been added to the list. 



A Zentmeyer histological stand, and numerous accessories, to- 

 getiier with several histological specimens, have been purchased. 



On December 2d, the following were elected officers for 1879: — 



Director ... . . R. S. Kenderdine, M.D. 



Vice Director . . . J. H. M'Quillen, M.D. 



Recorder . . . .J. Hess, M.D. 



Corresponding Secretary . J. X. Peirce, D.D.S. 



Conservator . . . J. G. Hunt, M.D- 



Treasurer . . . .1. Norris, M.D. 



Curators . . . . Carl Seller, M.D. 



Charles Zentmej'ev, M.D. 



Auditors . . . - S. Fisher Corlies, 



Charles Perot, 

 Charles Dixon, M.D. 

 Submitted for the Section, 



R. S. Kenderdine, M.D., 



Director. 



REPORT OF THE COXCHOLOGICAL SECTION. 



The Recorder of the Conchological Section respectfully reports 

 that, during 1878, the following authors have contributed papers 

 which have been [)ublished in the Academ3''s Proceedings : — 



C. A. Wliite, 3 pages, James Lewis, M. D., 2 pages. 



Coues & Yarrow, 3 pages. Mazyck & Vogdes, 1 page. 



In addition to these, several verbal communications of value 

 have been made before the Academy by Prof. Joseph Leidy, Mr. 

 John Ford, and others. 



Death has again visited us, and taken from our number our 

 much esteemed and valued Vice Director, William M. Gabb. 



During his short but very active life as an explorer, author, and 

 collector. Prof Gabb made extensive collections, most of which 

 are deposited in our museum; and contributed man}' valuable 




4.'j2 PROCEEDINGS (iF TIIK ACA[»EMY OF [I.S78. 



j)npers, upon Ijolli fos.sil and ii'fcnt conclioloi^^', to the '' American 

 Join iial of ('oiicli<)lo<4y,'' Journal and Pioecedings of the Academy, 

 and oilier scientific periodicals. 



At the time of his death, he iiad jnst oompletod an elal)orate 

 essay on the fossil M(;llusca of Central America, illustrate<l by 

 80 drawings made b}' himself, which is now in tlie hands of the 

 prc>per committee for publication in the Journal of the Academy. 



From the report of our Conservator, we find that the additions 

 to the museum, all of which have been labelled and arranged in 

 the cases, aggregate 725 trays, 1570 specimens. 



Of the '• Kobert Swift" cabinet, the iion-opercnlate land shells 

 have been labelled and arranged in 3933 trays, 18,34S specimens, 

 making a total of 4058 trays, and 19,918 specimens. Adding 

 these to the totals of former years, we have the following as the 

 present census of the museum (recent shells only) : — 



Total number of trays, 34,658 



Total number of specimens, 119,918 



Our Conservator says: "The additions of the current year have 

 all been cleansed and mounted by the experienced hands of Mr. 

 Charles F. Parker, who has as usual freely devoted to this pur- 

 pose a large portion of his time not occupied by his official duties 

 as Curator. He has also labelled and mounted the fossil shells 

 presented during the j'ear. The unscientific separation, in our 

 museum, of the fossil from the recent shells is much to be regretted ; 

 yet their rearrangement in a single series is impossible in the pre- 

 sent crowded condition of the cases. A further great enlargement 

 of the Museum of the Academy, needed by the unexampled growth 

 of ail its departments, will afford the onl}- opportunity' for consum- 

 mating this reform in the conchological portion — a reform imper- 

 atively demanded b^' the present status and apparent future of the 

 science, and which is already being realized in other museums. 



The following are the additions to the Conchological Museum, 

 received during the 3'ear: — 



C. B. Barrett. Fossil shells from the marl of Yincenttown, X. J. 



Dr. J. P. Bethell. Ostrea sp. and Perna maxillata, Conr., from Ash- 

 ley Hiver, South Carolina. 



Thomas Bland. Eighteen species of terrestrial shells, from Poly- 

 nesia and South America. 



W. W. Calkins. Litiopa striata, from Florida. 




1878.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 433 



T. A. Conrad (dec'd). Eight species of marine and fresh-water 



shells. 

 John Ford. Fossil oyster, from the Hadrosaurus marl-pit, Had- 



donfield, N. J. 

 Egg cases of Sjcotjpus canaliculatus, L., Atlantic City, N.J. 



Petricola pholadiformis (in situ), and fine group of My tilus 



edulis, from Cape May, N. J. 

 Crepidula fornicata, L., Long Island Sound. 

 Mytilus hamatus, Say, Princes' Bay, N. Y. harbor. 

 Petricola pholadiformis, Atlantic City, N. J. 

 Wra. M. Gabb (dec'd). Thirty-three species of Tertiary' raollusca, 



collected in the West Indies, by R. J. L. Gnppy ; one hun- 

 dred and eighteen species of miocene and pliocene shells, 80 



of which are types of new species, from Costa Rica : 



also a small collection from San Domingo. 

 Mrs. Gabb. Terrestrial shells, collected in San Domingo, by the 



late Wm. M. Gabb. 

 Henry Hemphill. A collection (139 species) of land and fresli- 



water shells made b}' him in Utah. (In exchange.) 

 Mr. Hergesheimer. Gjrodes, from Budd's Ferrj-, Lower Po 



to mac, Va. 

 Russell Hill. Natica aurantia, Lara. 

 Dr. Geo. H. Horn. Five species (numerous specimens) of land 



shells from Polynesia. 

 Dr. W. H. Jones, U. S. X. A number of specimens of mollusks 



in alcohol, collected during a cruise of the U. S. ship Ports- 

 mouth in the Pacific, 1S72-5. 

 Dr. Geo. W. Lawrence. Baculites, Ammonites, three Gastero- 



pods, and a Lamellibranch. from Clark Count}-, Ark. 

 Henrj' C. Lea. Types of 100 species of tertiary fossils, described 



by him. 

 Isaac Lea. Two large Ammonites. 

 Dr. Joseph Leidy. Donax fossor, Say, (numerous specimens), 



from Cape May, X. J. ; Mactra solidissima, Chemn., bored by 



Natica heros, Say, Atlantic City, N. J. 

 Charles F. Parker. Nautilus pompilius, L., a fine section, showing 



the chamber partitions and siphon tubes. 

 Jolin S. Piiillips Fund. 533 species of shells (195 specimens), all 



new to the Academj^'s collection. ' 



Mrs. Riggin. Marglnella apicina, Mke., from Sarasota Bay, Fla. 




434 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF flf^78. 



I)|-. \y. S. W, Riisclienber'^er. Three gpecies of slioUs fioin A|)i:i, 



Island of Upolii, Naviof.itors' Group, 

 Jolin H. lU'dfii'lil. Tweiity-eiglit si)ecios of post-plioeene shells, 



from California. 

 S. R. Roberts. Anodonta iniplicata, Say, and A. fluviatilis, Dilhv. 

 R. Swift Fund. Thirtj^-six species of post-plioeene fossil shells, 



from California. 

 G. W. Tryon, Jr. Eighteen species of Californian post-pliocene 



shells. 

 Wm. S. Vaux. One hundred and eighty species of post-pliocene 



and cretaceous shells, from California. 

 L. C. Wooster. Three species of land shells, from the alluvium of 



Cache-la-poudre Miver, Greely, Colorado. 

 The otiicers of the Section for 1879 are : — 



Director .... W. S. W. Ruschenberger. 

 Vice Director . . . John Ford. 

 Recorder . . . . S. Raymond Rol)erts. 

 Secretary . . . . E. R. Beadle. 

 Treasurer . . . Wm. M. Mactier. 



Librarian . . . Edw. J. Nolan. 



Conaervator . . . Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. 

 Respectful!}' sul)mitted, 



S. Raymond Roberts, 



]ieci)7-der. 



REPORT OF THE ENTOMOLOGICAL SECTION. 



During the j'ear that has elapsed since the last annual meeting 

 of tiie Academ}', the Entomological Section has regularly- held its 

 monthly meetings, with the exceptions of those of July and August, 

 a recess having been taken from June to September. The meetings 

 generallj' were quite interesting, on account of the numerous verbal 

 communications made. These remarks have been principally 

 directed tovvards the illustration of generic and specific forms of 

 the families of various orders of insects, and as illustrated by 

 blackboard drawings were calculated to render much assistance 

 to the student. 



During the j-ear the Entomological Section has lost two of its 




18V8.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 435 



members by death, viz., Mr. Robert Frazer, former!}' President of 

 the American Entomological Society, and Mr. Edward Tatnall. 

 The private collection of the latter gentleman has been placed in 

 tiie care of the American Entomological Society, which purposes 

 to make use of the same, as a nucleus for the formation of a gene- 

 ral collection for exhibition in the Museum of the Acadeni}', if 

 proper accommodations can be obtained. Such a collection must 

 necessarily be solely for display, as it would be neither expedient 

 nor safe to expose a valuable collection, such as is now contained 

 in the cabinet of the Entomological Societ}', to the dangers of de- 

 struction. 



Owing to the failure of the invested fund of the American Ento- 

 mological Society to produce so large an income as in previous 

 years, the Societ}' has been compelled to limit its expenditures to 

 a much smaller amount. Consequentl}' the publications have not 

 been so large as they otherwise would liave been. Only five 

 written communications, therefore, have been passed by the Pub- 

 lication Committee. Four of these contained descriptions of 

 Coleoptera, by Dr. George II. Horn, and the other descriptions of 

 H^-menoptera, by Mr. E. T. Cresson. 



In the month of September, with consent of the Council, an 

 extra heat coil was placed in the room occupied by the Section, 

 the latter bearing the expense thereof. 



Much time and labor have been devoted, during the past A-ear, 

 to the improvement of the collections. This is particularl}' notice- 

 able in the collection of Hymenoptera, which has greatly increased 

 b}' the addition of new and rare species derived more especially 

 from Colorado and Nevada. The collection of Hymenoptera now 

 within the walls of the Academy is, beyond all doubt, the finest 

 and most valuable of that order in America, and is probably the 

 best collection of North American species to be found in the 

 world. 



Great advances have also been made in filling up vacancies in 

 the orders of Coleoptera and Lepidoptera, and the collections of 

 both have been rendered more valuable. 



New methods have been adopted, by which the drawers of the 

 cabinets may be readily fumigated, and it is hoped by the greater 

 facility thus obtained of reaching all specimens, tiie loss from in- 

 fection will be greatly diminished. ' 



The remains of the original collection of the Academy have also 




436 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1878. 



been attended to by the mciubeis in charge, and the loss from deray 

 greatly lessened. Tliis colleclion liad already sulf'ered to such an 

 extent, that when it came under tiie supervision of the Sccti(jn it 

 was found to be of but little or no value as a scientific collection. 

 ^^'hat typical specimens it ever contained tiiat were of s|tecial im- 

 portance had been destroyed or transferred to other places, and the 

 remainder was on a sure course of destruction for want of care. 

 Under these circumstances the Section placed it under lock and 

 key, and while bestowing upon it all the care of which it is in need, 

 reserves it for use in the museum with such other specimens as 

 may, from time to time, be added thereto. 



Wlien it is considered that the gentlemen who h;ivc in charge 

 the Entomological Collection now in this building, have no 

 leisure from their daily avocation, and are compelled to devote 

 their evenings to the work, it will be realized that progress must 

 necessarily be slow; but, for the first time in the history of the 

 Academ3', the collection is now safe beyond depredations of any 

 sort. 



A t the meeting of the Entomological Section, held December 9th, 

 the following named persons were elected ofiicers for the year 

 1879. 



Director John L, LeConte, M.D. 



Vice Director ..... George 11. Horn, M.D. 



Recorder . . . . . J. H. Ridings. 



Treasurer . . . . . E. T. Cresson. 



Publication Committee . . . George H. Horn, M.D. 



Samuel Lewis, M.D. 



All of which is respectfully presented, 



J. H. Ridings, 



Recorder Ent. Sect. 



REPORT OF THE BOTANICAL SECTION. 



The vice director of the Botanical Section has pleasure in report- 

 ing to the Academy that the work of this department has been 

 very satisfactory during the past year, considering the means at 

 its command. One member has resigned during the 3"ear, and four 

 elected, making a list of thirt3--two at the present time. 



The Recorder's report shows that meetings have been held every 




1818.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 43T 



month during the year, August excepted. At these meetings 

 verbal communications have been made by Prof. Rotlirock and 

 Messrs. Redfiehi, Stevenson, Potts, Canby, Burk, Martindale, 

 Scribner, Griffith, and Meehan. Of these, Mr. Stevenson's, on the 

 Yalsei of the United States, Mr. Griffith's, on Aspidium aculea- 

 turn, and Mr. Potts's, on the mechanism of the flowers of Stapelia 

 and Asclepias, have been accepted for publication in the Proceed- 

 ings of the Academy. Some of the other more important matters 

 introduced to the notice of the Section have been reported to the 

 general meetings of the Academy, and published by the general 

 committee in its proceedings. 



The report of the Conservator gives so clear an account of the 

 condition of the Herbarium, that it is submitted entire, and while 

 the vice director is sure the Academy will be gratified with the 

 account of the progress made, he may take occasion to say that 

 the good work is mainly due to Messrs. Redfield, Burk, and 

 Schimmel, with such occasional assistance as Prof. Rothrock, 

 Mr. Scribner, tiie writer of this, and Mr. Parker, outside of his 

 duties as curator of the Academy, were able to render. 



The officers elected at the last meeting, to serve for the ensuing 

 year, are : — 



Director Dr. W. S. W. Ruschenberger. 



Vice Director . . . . Thomas Meehan. 



Recorder .... Isaac Eiuk. 



Corresponding Secretary . Isaac C. Martindale. 



Conservator .... John H. RedQeld. 



Treasurer .... Jose 0. Schimmel. 



Respectfully submitted, 



Thomas Meehan, 



Vice Director. 



Conservator's Report. — Since the last annual report of the Con- 

 servator was made to the Botanical Section, the work of arranging 

 the plants of the Herbarium in genus-covers has been completed, 

 and the collection is now in a condition to be accessible and useful 

 to students. The preparation of order tablets for the general 

 Herbarium is suspended for the present, awaiting the appearance 

 of the next portion of Bentham and Hooker's Genera Plantartnn. 



The additional case needed for the North American Herbarium 




438 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1878. 



lias been provided l>y ilie Academy, and tlio "^jiacc now at our dis- 

 posal, though none loo large, enaV)lc's us to make a creditahle and 

 convcnii'iit display of our present representation of the Flora of 

 Norlli America. Mr. Isaac Burk has kindly devoted such time as 

 he eouhl command to tlie arrangement of this part of our collec- 

 tion, and to the distribution in their places of the new accessions. 

 The preparation of the order tablets is now being rapidly pushed 

 to completi(*n, in which work we have had essential assistance 

 from the Academy's ellicient curator in charge, Mr. Ciiarles F. 

 Parker. 



h\ [)roportion as the pressure of this preliminary work has 

 abated, we have been enabled to give some attention to the im- 

 portant task of revising and elaborating the aluindaot and rich 

 material of our collections. As already reported to the Section in 

 fuller detail, the Conservator has, during tiie 3'ear, worked up the 

 Ferns of both the General and North American Herbaria, and 

 these are all now properly detertnined, labelled, and mounted, 

 nnmV)ering over nine hundred species. Those of Dr. Short's 

 Equatorial Herbarium yet need an examination and revision. 

 This will soon be undertaken, and when completed the Conserva- 

 tor hopes to present a catalogue of this division. 



Mr. M. S. Hebb, who has for many years made a specialty of 

 the study of the North American willows, and who is now engaged 

 in elaborating their species for the Flora of North America, and 

 for the Botany of California, having kindly offered to make a 

 critical examination of this difficult and perplexing genus, the 

 Academy authorized us to accept liis ofTer, and he has carefully 

 revised the specimens of our Noilh American Herbarium. And 

 Prof. Rothrock has done us the additional favor of mounting them, 

 and putting Mr. Bebb's critical notes in shape for permanent pre- 

 servation. The willows of our general herliarium have been re- 

 cently submitted to Mr. Bebl) for the same service. 



To our fellow-member, Mr. Wm. M. Canby, we are indebted for 

 the revision and mounting of the species belonging to the legumi- 

 nous genus Baptisia, and while he has lieen thus useful to us, it is 

 a satisfaction to know that our material has been of service to him 

 in i)reparing the revision of this genus which he is about to publish. 



Mr. F. L. Scribner, of Girard College, a member of the Section, 

 who has devoted himself to the study of the grasses, has kindl}"- 

 undertaken to arrange and mount this diQlcuIt and extensive por- 




1878 ] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 439 



tion of our collection, and has already entered upon the work, and 

 from the careful, thorough, and conscientious study which he is 

 giving to it, we may expect the best results. 



In all these revisions the original determinations and tickets 

 are carefully preserved, together with the notes of the revisor, 

 whose work can, therefore, at all times be tested. 



We should add that Mr. Sereno Watson, of the Caml)ridge Her- 

 barium, has revised for us the species of Cupressus and Iris, de- 

 tecting many errors, and supplying valuable notes. 



It is to be hoped tliat thus in time the aid of specialists will 

 bring order out of confusion in other portions of our collection. 



In the month of April tiie Academy received a lai'ge collection 

 of plants consisting of nearly three thousand species, mostly 

 European and East Indian, from the Herl)arium of the late John 

 Stuart Mill. These were presented by Miss Taylor, through the 

 director of the Ro^'al Gardens, Kew, and wei'e obtained through 

 the kind offices of Dr. Asa Gray. 



From Prof. George E. Post, of the American Protestant Col- 

 lege, Beirut, Syria, has been received in return for Colorado and 

 Utah plants furnished by the conservator, upwards of four hun- 

 dred species from the maritime and mountain districts of Syria, 

 and from Algeria, of which nearly' one-half were new to our col- 

 lection, and further accessions are promised from the same source. 



All of these large additions, with others specified in the annual 

 list of donations, have been thoroughly poisoned by Mr. Charles 

 F. Parker, and their distribution to the proper places upon our 

 shelves, has made large demands upon the time and labor of the 

 Herbarium Committee, and these demands have been promptly and 

 cheerfully met. 



Additions to Botanical Museum and Herbarium^ 1878. 

 Feb. Isaac C. Martindale; cones and twigs of Pinus mitis, Mx., 

 collected by him near Moorestown, Nevv Jersey, and 50 

 species of phanerogamous plants from Nevv Zealand. 



A. L. Siler, of Osmer, Utah, through Mr. Meehan; foliage and 

 cones of Pinus aristata, Engelm. 



John H. Redfield; 15 species of plants from Utah and Cali- 

 fornia, mostly new to the collection. 

 March. A. Commons, Centreville, Del. ; Galium hispidMlum,.Mx., 

 from Cape May, New Jersey — the first notice of it in that 

 State. 




440 PROCEEDINOS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1878. 



0. F. Parker; Pogonia aflliiis, Austin, from Closter, X. Y., 

 and Pyrola oxypctala, Austin, from Deposit, X. Y — the 

 author's type specimens witli liis original notes attaelied. 

 April. M. S. ]>el)l), Kountaindale, 111.; 13 si»ecies of North Anie- 

 riean willows. 



Dr Asa Gray, Cambridge, Mass.; about 3000 species of 

 European and East Indian plants from the herbarium of 

 the late John Stuart Mill, presented by Miss Taylor, 

 through the director of the Royal Gardens, Kew. 



Do.; 108 species of plants from Cliina, Didia, Australia, Cali- 

 fornia, etc., mostly new to the collection. 



John JI. Kedfield; 22 species of flowering plants from South- 

 ern Utah, and 20 species ferns, mostl}' new to the collection. 



Charles ¥. Parker; Scliizoea pusilla, Pursh, from Toms River, 

 New Jerse}^, and Botrychium lanceolatura, from Closter, 

 N. Y. 



Isaac C. ^Nlartindale; Bromus brevi-aristatus, Wats., from 

 S. W. Utah. 

 May. Conchological Section of the Academy; 54 species of Cali- 



fornian marine alga", collected by Ilenr}' Hemphill. 

 September. Dr. Asa Gray, Cambridge, Mass.; 100 species of 

 plants, raostl}' from Oregon and California. 



Prof. Joseph T. Rothrock; a suite of the collections made by 

 himself and Prof. John Wolf, on Col. Wheeler's explora- 

 tions in Colorado and Arizona in 1873, consisting of 335 

 species, all mounted. 

 October. Mrs. J. E^lwood Cooper, of Santa Barbara, California; 

 ten species of ferns, from vicinit}'^ of Santa Barbara, all 

 choice specimens. 



Dr. George E. Post, of American Protestant College, Beirut, 

 Syria; in return for Colorado and Utah plants, furnished 

 by J. H. Redfield; 212 species of plants from the maritime 

 districts of Syria; 82 species from the mountain region of 

 the same; 126 species from Algeria, a large proportion 

 new to us. 

 November. Isaac C. Martindale; 1st Century of Ellis's North 

 American Fungi, neatly mounted in l)ound volume. 



John H. Redfield ; 53 species ferns collected in the island of 

 Trinidad, by Dr. A. Fendler in 1877-78, and named by 

 Prof. D. C. Eaton; also Nymphaea flava, Leitn., and Bap- 

 tisia calycosa, Canby, a new species, both collected in 




1878.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 441 



Florida, by ]\[aiy 0. Re3"nolds; and Camptosorus rhizoph^d- 

 lus, collected on Round Top, battle-field of Gettysburg. 

 December. Thomas Median; Polypodium falcatura, Kell., and 

 Oenothera graciliflora, collected by Mrs. Briggs in Wash- 

 ington Territory, 

 T. S. Brandegee, Canon City, Colorado; 8 new species of 

 Fungi from Colorado, named by Prof. Peck. 



REPORT OF THE MINERALOGICAL SECTION. 



The Director of the Mineralogical Section of the Academy of 

 Natural Sciences would respectfully report, that meetings of the 

 Section have been held every month except July and August; the 

 attendance has been fair. At nearly every meeting new facts of 

 importance have been brought forward and discussed, so that 

 there has been no lack of interest. 



The donations for the year have been numerous, and many of 

 them valuable. The items will be found attached to tlie report of 

 the Curators of the Academj-. 



The increase of the cabinet may be deemed entirely satisfactory. 



The Director would also call attention to the fnct that a full 

 catalogue of all the minerals in the collection has been made by 

 Mr. Charles F. Parker during the year, who also has completed 

 the relabelling of all the specimens, works of great labor most 

 satisfactorilj' performed. Jn addition to this. Mi'. Parker has 

 prepared a list of minerals lacking in the collection. By distri- 

 bution of this, it is believed many of the vacant spaces may be 

 filled by gifts of the needed species. 



Some progress has been made in the local collection of rocks 

 and minerals, but much remains to be done It is purposed to 

 make a list of desiderata in this collection for distribution. 



By voluntar}' contribution of members of the Section, a Can- 

 field. Trimmer has been i)urchased and presented to the Academy. 



Several new localities of minerals have been for the first time 

 announced through the Section. 



Respectfully submitted, 



Theo. D. Rand, 



Director. 

 29 



I 




442 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1878. 



The election of Ofllccrs for 1870 was hold in accord.-inrc with 

 the By-liiws, with the following result: — 



President 

 Vice- President's 



Recording Secretary 



W. S. W. Kuschenberger, M. D. 



Wm. S. Vuux, 

 Thomas Mcelian. 

 Edward J. Nolan, M. D. 



Corresponding Secretary George H. Horn, M. D. 



William C. Ilensze}^ 

 Edward J. Nolan, M. D. 

 Joseph Leidy, M. D., 

 William S. Vaux, 

 Charles F. Parker, 

 11. S. Kenderdine, M.D. 

 Edward S Whelen, 

 C. Newlin Peirce, 

 J. H. Redfield, 

 S. Fisher Corlies. 

 Edward S. Whelen, 

 Clarence S. Bement, 

 Aubrey H. Smith, 

 S. Fisher Corlies, 

 Geo. y. Shoemaker. 



Treasurer 

 Librarian 

 Curators 



Councillors to serve three 

 years 



Finance Committee 



ELECTIONS DURING 1878. 



MEMBERS. 



January 29. — James Huneker, Albert H. Smith, ^l.D., Frank 

 H. Rosengarten, John K. Valentine, George Wolf Ilolstein, ]Mrs. 

 Charlotte Von Uhlen Olsen, M. D., John A. Ryder, Griffith E. 

 Abbot, Ph.D. 



March 26.— Wm. F. Sellers, H. Haupt, Jr., M.D. 



AjDril 30. — W. W. Frazier, Jr., Walter Wood, Jos. W. Ander- 

 son, M. D. 



June 25. — George B. Cresson. 



July 30.— Mrs. Emily T. Eckert, Herman C. Evarts, :M. D. 




18T8.J NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 443 



August 21. — Dowling Benjamin, M. D, 



September 24. — E Gj'^bbon Spilsbury, Henry A. Green, Francis 

 X. Dercum, M. D., Henry C. Wood, M. D. 



October 29. — William Ayres, William T. Haines, J. Bernard 

 Brinton, M, D., Edmund Lewis. 



November 26.— J. Ward Atwood, M. D., Wm. S. Baker, Dr. L. 

 Ashley Fanght. 



CORRESPONDENTS. 



January 29. — John McCrady, of Sewanee, Tenn.; Charles 

 T. Minot, of Roslindale, Mass.; Henry Hicks, of London; J. W. 

 Hulke, of London; Thomas Belt, of London; H. G. Seely, of 

 London; W. T. Thistleton Dj-er, of London; Archibald Geikie, 

 of Edinburgh; James Geikie, of Edinburgh; Charles Barrois, of 

 Lille; Dr. M. E. Jannettaz, of Paris; Dr. Emil Sauvage, of Paris; 

 Ch. Yelain, of Paris; Edmond Pellat, of Paris; H. Filhol, of 

 Paris; Michael Yacek, of Vienna; Karl von Seebach, of Got- 

 tingen. 



February 26. — J. Gozzardini, of Bologna; G. Meneghini, of 

 Pisa; Antoine Stoppani, of Milan; Francisco Cocllo, of Madrid; 

 Dr. J. J. Steenstrup, of Copenhagen; F. Steenstrup, of CoiDen- 

 hagen; R. Brougli Smyth, of Melbourne; Edward Yan Beneden, 

 of Liege; Jules Kiinckel d'Herculais, of Paris. 



March 26. — Auguste Forel, M. D., of Munich; James Wood 

 Mason, of Oxford. 



May 28. — Guraesindo Mendoza, of Mexico ; Stephen Bowers.. 

 A. M., of Santa Barbara, Cal 



July 30.— J. B. Ellis, of Newfield, N. J. 



November 26 R. Neilson Clark, of Rosita, Col. 




444 AnruTKtNs to lii!Kaiiv 



ADDITIONS TO TTTK LIT'.It A KY. 1878. 



Agnssiz, L. .Tournoy to Switzerland, ls33. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Aiken, 1). W. Hemarks on tlie Report of the Commissioner of Ff)restry. 

 The Author. 



Alto Velo Island, 1868. T. V. Williamson Fnnd. 



American Philosophical Society, Cataloi^ue of the Library. Pt. 3. The 

 Society. 



Angelin, N. P. Iconoi^raphia crinoideornm in stratis Snecifc Silnricis fos- 

 silium, 1878. Royal Academy of Sciences of Sweden. 



Antal, K. A Dunai Trachytcsoport Jobbparti Reszt-nek, 1877. Hungarian 

 Acadeni}' of Sciences. 



Ashbnrner, C. A. Oil well records of JFcKean and Elk Counties. 

 Wilcox spouting water well. Tlie Author. 



Eaillon, M. H. Dictionnaire de Botanique. 7me— lOme Fasc. I. V. Wil- 

 liamson Fund. 



Baird, S. F. Annual record of science and industry, 1877. I. V. Wil- 

 liamson Fund. 



Balfour, F. M. Elasmobranch Fishes, 1878. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Barber, E. A. Vocabulary of Utah dialects. 

 Traces of solar Avorshi]) in North America. 

 American anthropological notes. 

 Ancient pueblos. Pis. 1 and 2. The Author. 



Barnard's Isthmus of Tehuantepec. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Barrande, J. Cephalopods de la Boheme II. 5, 1877. The Author. 



Barrois, C. Embryologie des Bryozoaires, 1877. Terrain cretace sup. de 

 I'Angleterre et de Tlslande. The Author. 



Bastian, A. Culturliinder des alten America, 2v, 1878. I. Y. Williamson 

 Fund. 



Baswitz, M. Die Oxydationsprodukte des Acetessigesters. University of 

 Wurzburg. 



Battle-field of Gettysburg, three maps. War Department. 



Beale, L. S. Microscope in Medecine. Conarroe Fund. 



Benoit, L. Conchigliologia. 



Bigsby, J. I. Thesaurus Devonico-Carboniferus, 1878. The Author. 



Bland, Thos. Terrestrial air-breathing moUusks of the United States. 

 The Author. 



Bleeker, P. Atlas ichthj'ologique des Indes Orientales Neerlandaises. 

 Livr. 34-36. Wilson Fund. 

 Cabinet ichthyologiquc. The Author. 



Boardman, G. D. Studies in the creative week. I. Y. Williamson Fund. 



Bocage, J. Y. Barboza du. Ornithologie d'Augola. Ire Partie, 1877. The 

 Author. 



Bohnensicg, G. C. W., and W. Burck. Repertorium annuum literaturse 

 bolanicfe. S. 4, 1878. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Boothby, J. Statistical sketch of South Australia, 1876. The Author. 



Botanical director}' of America, 1878. Torrey Botanical Club. 



Bourguignat, 31. .J. R. Malacologie de la Regeuce de Tunis. 1. Y. Wil- 

 liamson Fund. 



Brackmeyer, G. Einwirkung der Sanlonsiiure auf den Farbensinu. Uni- 

 versity of AVurzburg. 




ADDITIONS TO LIBRARY. 445 



Biadv, G. S. Free and semi-parasitic Copepoda of the British Islands. 

 Vol. I. Wilson Fund. 

 Zoology of Hylton Dene. The Author. 



Brandt, A. Das Ei und seine Bildungsstatte. I. V. AVilliamson Fund. 



Brasseur de Bourbourg's Nations civilisees du Mexique et de TAmerique 

 Centrale. 4 vols. 

 Bibl. Mexico-Guatemalienne. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Braun, M. Lacerta Lilfordi und Lacerta muralis. University of Wurzburg. 



Brefeld. 0. Botanische Untersuchuugen uber Sehimmelpilze, III. I. V. 

 Williamson Fund. 



Brehm. Thierleben III. 5-14; IV. 1-8; VII. 1-12 ; X. 1-11. I. V. 

 Williamson Fund. 



Brougniart, A., and A. G. Desmarest. Crustaces fossiles, 1822. I. V. Wil- 

 liamson Fund. 



Brongniart, C. Perforations dans deux morceaux de bois fossile. 

 Araneide fossile des terrain ter. d'Aix. 

 Nouveau genre d'Entomostrace fossile. 

 Insecte fossile de la fam. des Dipteres. 

 Nouvelle espece de diptere fossile. 

 Orthoptere coureur de la famille des Phasmiens. 

 Note rectificative sur quelques dipteres tertiaires. 1878. 

 Nouveau genre d'orthoptere fossile. The Authoi". 



Bronn's Klassen und Ordnungeu des Thier-Reichs. 6er Bd. ; II. Abth. 

 18-20; 5 Abth. 1-.-), Ifi-f?. 1878. Wilson Fund. 



Browne, P. A. Trichologia mammalium. 1858. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Briihl, C. B. Zootomie aller Thierklassen. Lief. 8-10. I. V. Williamson 

 Fund. 



Bureau of Education, Circulars of information, No. 1. Training of teachers 

 in Germany, 1878. Dep. of Education. 



Bureau of Statistics. Quarterly report, Sept. 30, 1877, to June 30, 1878. 

 Treasury Department. 



California State Geological Society, extracts from Proceedings of. 1878. 

 The Society. 



Calkins, W. W. "Geological formations of La Salle Co. The Author. 



CandoUe, A. C. De. Monographiae plianerogamarum prodromi. Vol. I. 

 1878. I. V. WiUiamson Fund. 



Carl, C. A. Frage enthiilt die Chorda tympani Geschmacksfasern. Uni- 

 versity of Wurzburg. 



Cartailhac, E. L'age de pierre. 1878. The Author. 



Castello de Paiva, Barone de. Molluscorum Insularum Maderensium. 

 1867. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Catalogue of scientific papers (1804-1873). Vol. VII. Royal Society of 

 London. 



Census of British Burmah, 1872. 



Census of Bombay Presidency. 1872, Pt. IV. East India Government. 



Chamberlain, T C. Geology of Wisconsin. Vol. II. and Atlas. Annual 

 Report, 1877. The Autlior. 



Chevrolat, A. Coleopteres uouveaux on peu conuus. The Author. 



Chief of Engineers, U. S. A., Report, 1877, Pts. 1 and 2. Engineer De- 

 partment, U. S. A. 



Chief of Ordnance, Annual report of 1877. Brig. Gen. S. V. Benet. 



Clark, R. N. The Humboldt- Pocahontas Vein. Rosita, Cal. The Author. 



Clarke's Comparative philology, 1873. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Claus, C. Traite de Zoologie. VII. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Clessin. S. Deutsche Excursions-MoUusken-Fauna. Lfg. 1-4, 1870. I. 

 V. Williamson Fund. , 



Clever, C. P. New Mexico. 1808. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Clostermeyer, T. Beeinflussung des lebenden WarmbUiternniskels durch 

 Curare, Guanidin, Veralrin. University of Wurzburg. 




44G ADDITIONS TO LIBUARY. 



Cohn, F. Bioloirio dor PMan/.en. 2 Bd. 3. I. V. Williumson Fund. 

 Colloiiot, J. J. Dcsc. i:('()l(>M;i(Hi(' dc I'Auxois. 



I)ii |)lu)spliat<" dc cl\iiux dans I'Auxois. TIip Antlinr. 

 Commissioner of ALrriculture, N. C, 4tli f|nart«'rly report. The Author, 

 Commissioner of Education, Keport, 1H7(i. Tiie Autiior. 

 Commissioners of Fairmount Park, annual rcjiort, 1878. Tlie Autliors. 

 Commission zur wissenscliafiliclien Unlersncliun^ der deutsclien Mccre in 

 Kiel, Jahresbcricht. IV., V., and VI., 1878. I. V. Williamson 

 Fund. 

 Congres internationale des Americauistcs, 1875, 2 vols. I. V. Williamson 



Fund. 

 Conrad, Max. Acotessigesters. University of Wurzburg. 

 Cooke, ^I. C. Mycograpliia. Pt. 5. Tiie Author. 

 Cope. E. D. Prof. Owen on Pylhouomorpha 



Fishes from cretaceous and tertiary deposits west of the Mississippi 



River. 

 Vertebrate palaeontolog}' of New Mexico, Review. 

 Palcontological Bulletin, Nos 27-20. 



Relation oi' animal motion to animal evolution. The Author. 

 New extinct vcrtcbrata from the Upper Tertiary and Dakota formations. 

 Vertebrre of Rachitomus. 



Classification of extinct fishes of the lower types. 

 Fishes of the Peruvian Amazon,. 1873-74. The Author. 

 Coquand, M. Terrains a Petrole et a Ozokerite du Caucase. The Autiior. 

 Cornalia, E. Commemorazione del Prof. Paolo Panceri. The Author. 

 Cones, E , and U. C. Yarrow. Herpetology of Dakota and ^lontana. The 



Authors. 

 D'Archiac and Ilaime's Animaux fossile du group uummulitique de I'Inde. 



2e Livr., 1854. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Darwin, C. Geological observations. 2d Ed. I. V. "Williamson Fund. 

 Davis, N. S. Medical education in the United States, 1776-1876. Bureau 



of Education. 

 Dawkins, W. B. British Pleistocene Mammalia. Pt. A., 1878. 



Address on Antiquitj' of Man. Evidence afforded by caves of Great 



Britain as to the antiquity of man. 

 History of the deer of the European miocene and pliocene strata. The 

 Author. 

 Dawson, G. M. Geological Survey of Canada. Mines and minerals of 



economic value in British Goluml)ia. The Survey. 

 Department of Mines, N. S. W., Annual Report, 1876. Royal Society of 



New South Wales. 

 De Tar and Beecher. Planorbis costatus, 1879. The Authors. 

 Detlefsen, E. Dickenwachsthum cylindrischen Organe. University of 



Wurzburg. 

 Dobson, G. E. Asiatic Chiroptera in Indian ^lusenm. Trustees of >[useum. 

 Dollinger, J v. Avcntin und seine Zcit. Bavarian Academy of Sciences. 

 Draper, J. "W. Contriijutions to a knowledge of radiant energy, 1878. I. 



V. Williamson Fund. 

 Drasche, R. von. Die Inscl Reunion. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Drew, C. S. Report of Owyhee Reconnoisance, 1865. I. V. Williamson 



Fund 

 Dutrochet, M. H. L'accroissement et la reproduction des vegetaux. Heirs 



of the late Dr. Jos. Carson. 

 Eaton, D. E. Ferns of North America. Pts. 1-0. J. H. Redfield. 

 Eichhorn, J. C. Naturg. der kleinsten AVasserthiere, 1781. I. V. Wil- 

 liamson Fund. 

 Eldridge. S. Arrow poison of the Ainos. 



Crania of the Botans of Formosa. The Author. 




ADDITIONS TO LIBRARY. 447 



Elliot, D. G. Bucerotidre, 1-3. Wilson Fund. 



Emerton, J. H. Structure and habits of spiders, 1878. I. V. Williamsou 



Fund. 

 Encyclopaedia Britannica, 9th Ed. VIII. I. V Williamson Fund. 

 Endlich, F. M. Minerals found in Colorado. The Author. 

 Engelmann, G. Flowerinsj of Agave Shawii. 

 American junipers of the section Sabina. 

 Species of Isoetes of the Indian Territory. 

 Oaks of the United States (continuation). 

 Synopsis of American Firs. The Author. 

 Engineers Club of Philadelphia. Metric system of weisrhts and measures. 



1878. The Authors. 

 Erebus and Terror, Voyage of. Zoology, 19-34. Wilson Fund. 

 Ernst, A. Deformaciones enfermedades y enemigos del arbol de cafe in 

 VenezAiela. 

 Vargas considerado como botanico. 1877. The Author. 

 European Turkey' and Black Sea, Maps of I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Farlow, W. G, Asexual growtli of prothallus of Pteris cretica. 

 Marine algi3e of the United States. 

 Common diseases caused bj' fungi. 

 Algse new to United States. 



Botanical articles from Bulletin of the Bussey Institution. The Author. 

 Fungi found in vicinity of Boston. Pt. 2. Synonymy of UredinesB. 

 The Author. 

 Favre's Mollusques fossiles. 1869. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Ficalho, Conde de. Flora Portugueza. 2 Tracts. The Author. 

 Financial reform almanack, 1878. The Cobden Club. 

 Fischer and Crosse. Mission scientifique an Mexique et dans I'Amerique 



Centrale. 7me Partie. Mollusques. The Authors. 

 Folin,'L. de. Famille des Coecidae. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Forbes, C. Vancouver Island, 1863. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Fox, C. B. Sanitary examinations of water, air, and food. I. V. William- 

 son Fund. 

 Frazer, P., Jr. Proposed substitution of metric for our own system of 



weights and measures. The Author. 

 Free Public Library, Liverpool, 2.')th annual report. The Trustees. 

 Friele, H. Jan Mayen Mollusca. 1877. The Author. 

 Frile, H. Development of the skeleton in the genus Waldlieimia. The 



Author. 

 Fritsch, A. Reptilien und fische der bohmischen Kriedeformation. 1878.- 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Fritsch, G. Feineren BaudesFischgehirns. 1878 I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Gabb, W. M. Jlollusca of the cretaceous formation. Author's copj' with 



MSS. additions. Mrs. Gabb. 

 Galeb, O. De Tceuf dans la serie animale. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Gavarret, .T. Acoustique biologique. I. V. Williamsou Fund. 

 Gentry, T. The house sparrow, 1878. The Author. 

 Geological Survey of Canada. Map XVI. The Survey. 

 Geological Survey of India. Records, Vol. X., Pts. 1-4. Memoirs. Pal?e- 

 ontologica Indica. Ser. II. 3 and 3 ; IV. 2 ; X. 3 ; XI. 2 : XIII. 1 

 and 2/ The Surve}^ 

 Geological Survey of New Jersey. Report on Clay Deposits. 1877. G. 



H. Cook. 

 Geological Survey of New Zealand. Colonial Museum reports, 1866-67, 

 and 3d-llth Reports of Explorations, 1870-77. See Authors. 

 Meteorological Report, 1873-75. 

 Birds of New Zealand. 

 Stalk and sessile-eyed Crustacea. 

 Phromium tenax. 

 First general report on coal deposits, 1866. The Survey. 




448 ADDITIONS TO LIBRARY. 



Geoloiriral Survey of I'ciinsvlvimi.i. I{(|iorts H o, I 2, K 2, K o, N 2. 



'The Survey. 

 Gorvais. Osteoirnipliie des ^rouotri-mes. Fnsc. I. I. V. WilliamKou riintl. 

 Gill, Tlieo. New ^fenrrie tyi>e of Ciiarncins. T)ie Autlior. 

 Gilles, M. Sit/, und Verl>reilun^' der IJilduiif^ssafies und seiiien Einfluss 



auf das Diekeinvaehstliuni der I)ikr)tyleii. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Glover. T. F^ntoniological index to names, etc., in agriculture reports. 



The Author. 

 Goodyear. W. A. Coal mines of the western coast of the United States. 



1. V. Williamson Fund. 



Gosse, P. II. A year at Die shore, 1805. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Gozzadini, ]\I. le Cte. (-ongres d'archeologie. Discouis d'(Jverture. 

 La necropole de Villanova. 



^epolcri scavati nell' Arsenale militare di Bologna. 

 Mors de cheval Italiques et de Tepee de Konzano en bronze. The 

 Author. 



Graff, L. Genns Myzostoma. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Gray, Asa. Botanical contributions. The Author. 



Synoptieal flora of North America. Vol. II., Pt. 1. I. V. William- 

 son Fund. 



Gray's Whales and dolphins in the British Museum. I. V. Williamson 

 Fund. 



Gray's Starfish in the British Museum. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Green, F. V. On C'hamyelirin. The Author. 

 Additional notes on Chamrelirin. 



Greenwall, W.. and G. Bollestou. British Barrows, 1877. I. V. William- 

 son Fund. 



Greville, R. II. Scottish cryptogamic flora, G v. 182o. I. V. Williamson 

 Fund. 



Grote, A. R. International scientific service. The Author. 



Groth, P. Mineraliensammlutig der Kaiser-Willielnis-Universitiits, Strass- 

 burg. Supplement. I. V- Williamson Fund. 



Griiber, A. Zwei siisswasser Calaniden. 1878. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Gupp}'. R. J. L. West Indian tertiary fossils. Miocene fossils of Haiti. 

 The Author. 



Hale, J. Louisville Limestone. The Author. 



Hallier, E. Plastiden der niederen Pflauzen. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Hamilton, 11. Metric Sj'stem. The Author. 



Hammond, Wm. A. Report of Committee on Military Affairs. The Com- 

 mittee. 



Harteneck, K. Ermndung und Erhohing des Quergestreiften Muskels der 

 Warm und Kaltbliiter. University of Wurzburg. 



Harting. J. E. Rambles in search of shells. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Hayden, F. V. Geological and geographical Atlas of Colorado and adja- 

 cent territories. Department of Interior. 



Hector, .las. Phroniiuni tena.x. Geological Survey of N. Z. 



Hebenstreit. Urgesteine des nordostlichen Scharzwaldes. University of 

 Wurzburg. 



Hague, A., and S. F. Emmons. Report of Geol. Expl. of 40th Par. Vol. 



2. Engineer Dep. U. S. A. 



Hebert, E. Terrains tertiaires de TEurope mcridionale. 

 La craie de Crimee. 

 Deux especes d'Hemipneustes. 

 Fossiles de Montreuil-Bellay. 

 Terrain cretace du Department de I'Yonne. 

 Craie dans le bassiii de Paris. 

 Craie dans le nord de la France. 

 Mers auciennes et leur rivages dans le bassin de Paris. Ire Partie. 




ADDITIONS TO LIBRARY. 449 



Terrain cretace snperieur en France. 



Sondages executes par la Commission francaise dans le Pas-de-Calais 



en, 1875 

 Travanx scientifiques de M. E. Hebert. 

 La Craie superieure des Pyrenees The Author. 

 Hebert and Munier-Chalmas. Terrains tertiaires du Vicentin. The 



Authors 

 Feer, O. Flora fossilis Helvetise. III. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Hollman's Pctrefacten Tiiliringeus. le-4e. Lief. I. V. Williamson Fund 

 Hemphill, H. Shells of Utah. The Author. 

 Henry, Jos., photograph of. T. R. Peale. 

 Hert-\vig, O. and R. Nervensystem und die Sinnesorgane der Medusen, 1878, 



Organismus der IMedusen. 1878. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Hess, E. Zugleicii gleicheckigen und gleichflachigen Polyeder. The 



Author. 

 Heude. R. P. Conchyliologie de la Province de Nanking. IIL I. V. 



Williamson Fund. 

 Hicks. H. Cambrian and Silurian rocks of European Seas. 

 Undescribed fossils from the ]\Ienevian group. 

 Ancient rocks in the vicinity of St. Davids, Pembrokeshire. 

 Pre-Cambrian rocks of St. Davids. 

 Pre-Cambrian rocks in Ciiernarvonshire. 

 Cambrian and Silurian rocks of Ramsey Island, St. Davids. 

 Phosphates in the Cambrian Rocks. 

 Camlirian and Silurian Rocks. 



DiniPtian and Pebidian rocks of Pembrokeshire. The Author. 

 Hind. Northwest Territory. 18o9. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Hitchcock. C. H. Geology of New Hampshire. Pt. II. 1877. With atlas. 



The Author. 

 Hofman, K. B Lehrbuch der Zoochemie. II. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Hoffman, W. J. Mineralogy of Nevada. Tlie Author. 

 Hooker, J. D. Flora of British India. V. Wilson Fund. 



Same. The Author. 

 Hooker, W. J. Britisli Jungermannife, 1876. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Hoppe-Seyler. F. Physiologische Chemie, II. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Hovelacque, A. Science of language. 1877. Conarroe Fund. 

 Huggenberg, C. Alphaaethyl-Actcl)Prnsteinsaure-Ester und Aethylbern- 



steinsaure. University of Wurzburg. 

 Hull, E. Piiysical geology and geography of Ireland. 1878. The Author. 

 Humboldt's Cosmos. 5 v. 1871. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Hunfalvy, P. Lilerarische Berichte aus Ungarn. 1 Bd. 1-4. Hungarian 



Academy of Sciences. 

 Hunt, T. S. Chemical and geological essays. 1878. Tiie Author. 

 Hutton. F. W. Birds of New Zealand. 

 Fishes of New Zealand. 



Tertiary mollusca and echinodermata of New Zealand. 

 Marine mollusca of New Zealand Geological Surve}' of N. Z. 

 Huxley, T. H. Physiography, 1878. Conarroe Fund. 

 Iowa State Agricultural College. 7th biennial report, 1877. Tiie Trustees. 

 Jack, J. B. Hepaticse Europaeae. Tlie Author. 



Jendrassik, J. A. M. K. Tudomany-Egyeten Elettaiu lutezetenek Lei- 

 rasa. Hungarian Academy of Sciences. 

 Jhering, H. von. Thierischen Eics und Zelltheilung, 1S78. I. V. William- 

 son Fund. 

 Johnson, W. R., steel portrait of. Dr. Jos. Leidy. 

 Jordan. D. S. Distribution of fresh-water fishes of the United States. 

 Catalogue of the fishes of the fresh waters of North America. ' 

 Fishes from the Rio Grande at Brownsville, Te.xas. The Author. 




450 ADDITIONS TO LIHUAKY. 



Just, li. ■notaniscluT .Tiilinsl.c-rifht. 4or .Iall^■,^, 1-3 Al.tli. I. V. Wil- 



liiunsoii Fund. 

 Kalclihrcnner, C. Iconos scloctie llyiiicnoiiiycftuin Iliiii^'iuiie. llun- 



j^arian Acailciny of Sciences. 

 Kanoleau, A., and A. Letounicux. La Kabylie, 3 vol?. 1. V. WiHianisou 



Fund. 

 Kansas St. IJd. of Airr. Reports, Jan. to Dec. 187H. Alfred Gray. 

 Kn;nur, F. Iv. Natiirir. der Lurclie. I. V. Willianison Fund. 

 Kiddle, H., and A. J. Seiieni. Year-l»ook of education, 1H7S. E. Steiirer. 

 Klun/.inirer, C. B. Koralltliiere des Rotbeu Slecres. I. Th. 1. V. Wil- 

 liamson Fund. 

 Kobelt, W. Rossniiissler's Iconoi^raphie dcr Europaischen land nnd siiss- 

 wasser Mollusken. V. Bd.', 4-6; VI. Bd., l-:{ Lief. Wilson Fund. 

 TUuslrirtPS Conchylienbuch. l-~) Lief. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Kolliker, Fick, and Kiudlli'iscli. Commemoration of tbe 40tli Anniversary 

 of Franz Von Rinecker's Professorsbip. University of Wurz-bur;;. 

 Kokscbarow, X. v. Mineralogie Russlands VIIL, S. 225-384. I. V. Wil- 

 liamson Fund. 

 Koninck, L. De. Memoires de paleontologie. 1857-58. 

 Reports on memoirs by Gosselet. etc. 

 Quelques fossiles recueillis par M. G. Dovvalque. 

 ,Fossiles du Spitzberg. 

 Notice sur F. J. Cantraine. 

 Une nouvelle espcce de Davidsonia, 1855. 

 Fossiles paleozoiques de la Nouvelle Galles du Sud, 1870-77. 

 Animaux fossiles. Ire and 2e parlie, 1873. Tbe Autbor. 

 Krab, C. Der Bcutkreislauf in der Milz. University of Wurzburg. 

 Kubnt. H. ]\Iarklialtii!e peripbere Nervenfaser. Universitj'^ of Wurzburg. 

 Kunkel, A. Sloffwecbsel in der Leber. Universit3' of Wurzburg. 

 Kupffer, C.,and B. Bcuecke. Ei der Neunaugen!| 1878. I. V. William- 

 son Fund. 

 La Cour, P. Rue pbonique. Tbe Autbor. 

 Landesdurcbforscbung von Bobmen, Arcbiv., II. 1. IV. 1. I. V. Williamson 



Fund. 

 Lankester, E. R. Embryology and Classification. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Lataste, F. Position de la fente brancbiale cbez le T6tard du Bonibinator 

 igneus. 

 Habitat du Triton vittatus. Tbe Autbor. 

 Lautenl)acb, B. F. New function of tbe liver, 1877. 

 Are tbere spinal respiratory centres? 

 Functions of tbe cerel)ral lobes. 

 Pbysiological action of bemlock. 



Reebercbes faites dans la laboratoire de pbysioiogie de Geneve, Tbe 

 Autbor. 

 Lawrence, G. N. New species of birds from tbe Island of Dominica. 

 New species of birds of tbe families Trocbilida? and Tetraonidic. 

 Supposed new species of Soutb American tlirusb. 

 New species of parrot of tbe genus Cbrysotis. 

 Seven new species of birds from St. Vincent, W. I. 

 Birds of St. Vincent, 1878. 

 Birds of Dominica, 1878. Tbe Autbor. 

 Le Conte, J. Elements of geology. Conarroe Fund. 

 Le Due, Wm. G. Forestry, message of tbe President. Department of 



Agriculture 

 Legrand, Dr. Nouvelle Societe Indo-Cbinoiso, 1878. Tiie Autbor. 

 Le Hon, H. L'bomme fossile. 5me Ed, 1878. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Lebmann, R. Scbnecken und ^luscbeln der Umgegend Stettin und in 

 Pommern, 1873. I. V. Williamson Fund. 




ADDITIONS TO LIBRARY. 451 



Lenliossek, J. Polymikroskop. Hungarian Academy of Sciences. 



Lesqiiereux, L. Silurian plants. The Author. 



Letourneau, C. Biology, 1878. Conarroe Fund. 



Lewis Brooks Museum at tlie University of Virginia, June 27, 1878. Board 

 of Visitors. 



Leydig. F. Auuren Batrachier der Deutschen Fauna. I. V. Williamson 

 Fund. 



Librarian of Congress, Annual Report, 1877. The Author. 



Lienard, E. Fauna malacologique del'Ile Maurice, 1877. I. V. "William- 

 son Fund. 



Light-house Board, Report, 1877. Treasury Department. 



Limpach, L. Oxydations-Producte der Stearolsaure. University of Wurz- 

 burg. 



Lindley, J. The vegetable kingdom, 1853. J. Haines. 



Lindsay, A. W. C. Mysore general Census of 1871 and supplement. East 

 Indian Government. 



Linnfeana in Nederland Aanwezig. 



Liunreus, C. Rede ter hserdenking vanden Sterfdag. 



Aanwijzingen voor bezoekers van de tentoonstelling van Linnteana. 



10-14. 

 Pflechtige Herdenking van Linnreus' Leven en Werken. Royal Zoo- 

 logical Society "Natura Artis magistra." 



Liversidge, A. Minerals of New South Wales. 



Disease in the sugar cane, Queensland. The Author. 



Locard, A. Faune des terrains tertiaires moyens de la Corse. .Echinides 

 par Cotteau. 

 Malacologie Lyonnaise, 1877. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Loche, Com. Expl. scient. de I'Algerie. Mammiferes et des oiseaux, 

 1867. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Lockyer, N. Studies in spectrum analysis. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Loureiro, J. de. Flora Cochinchinensis. 2v, 1790. Academy of Sciences 

 of Lisbon. 



Lovell, M. S. Edible mollusks of Gh-eat Britain and Ireland. I. V. AVil- 

 liamson Fund. 



Lower California, 1868. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Lyell's Principles of Geology, llth Ed., 1873, 2 v. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



McCook, H. C. Mound-making ants of the Alleghanies. The Author. 



McLachlan, R. Trichoptera of the European fauna. Pt. VII. I. V. Wil- 

 liamson Fund. 



Maclagen, T. Germ theory applied to the explanation of the phenomena 

 of disease. The specific fevers. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Malbranc, M. Von der Seiteulinie und ihren Sinesorganeu bei Amphi- 

 bien. University of Wurzburg. 



Mallet, J. W. La Barcenita, 1878. Mariano Barcena. 



Maps of battle-fields, 27. War Department. 



Marcuse, A. J. Die Abhangigkeit der Erregung von der Lange der Elek- 

 trisch Durchstromten Nervenstrecke. University of Wurzburg. 



Marschall, A. de. Nomenclator zoologicus. The Author. 



Marsh, O. C. American Jurassic Dinosaurs. Pt. I. The Author. 



Martens, E. von. Mollusca of New Zealand contained in European collec- 

 tions. Geological Survey of N. Z. 



Martin, K. Niederlaendische und Nordwestdeutsche Sedimentaergeschiebe. 

 I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Martini und Chemintz. Concliylien-Cabinet, 265-273. Wilson Fund. 



IMartin'sEncj'clopedia article "Vegetal." Heirsof tlielate Dr. Jos. Carson. 



Mayer, A. M. Sound, 1878. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Medical Theses, seventeen. University of Wurzburg. 



Meehan, Thos. Native flowers and ferns of the United States. I. 1-13. 

 L. Prang & Co. 




452 ADDITIONS TO LIHKAKY. 



Mcldrnm, C. Sunspnts aiul rainfalls. Tlu^ Author. 



]\I(lli), J. y\. Hoix* caves of CrcHwcU Crags. Tlio A\itiior. 



Mercantile T/ilirary Association of San Francisco, 2."itli annual report. 1R77. 



The A\itlior. 

 Meteoroloi,'ical Service of tiie Dominion of Canada. Report .31st Dec. 1877. 



Dej)artnient of .Marine and Fislieiies. 

 Miall, L. C. Skull of the Crocodile, 1H78. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Micklehornuuli, J., and A. G. Wctlierby. Lower Silurian fossils. 1878. A. 



G. AVellierby. 

 Miers, K. J. Stalk eyed Crustacea of New Zealand. Geological Survey 



of N. Z. 

 Miers, J. Apocynacene of South America. T. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Miller, IT. Geology of Bass-rock, 18")1. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Miller, S. A., and C. B. Dyer. Contributions to palaeontology. 1 and 2. 



The Author. 

 Mission Scient. au Mexique et dans I'Amerifpio Centrale. Recherches zoo- 



logique. 7me partie. 1878. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Mocbius, K. Auster und die AusternwirthscliaU. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Mueller, C. Einseitig frei schwingende ^lembranen. The Author. 

 Mueller, F. de. Fragmenta phytographije Australia;. X. 187G. The 



Author. 

 Mulsant, E. Notice sur Edouard Ferris. 1878. The Author. 

 Museum of Comparative Zoology at Harvard College, annual report, 



1877-78. The Author. 

 Musevuu of geology and archnoology of Princeton College, Contributions, 



No. "l, 1878. The Authors "^ 

 Museum GodeflVoy, Journal, XIII. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Museum of Wesleyan Universiij-, 7fh annual rejiort, 1878. The Authors. 

 Napp, R. Argentine Reiniblic, 1870. The Author. 



Nathusius-Konigsborn, W. von. Nicht Celhilare Organismen. I. V. Wil- 

 liamson Fund. 

 Netherland Centennial Commission. Dc Openbare Werken in Nederland. 

 Nederlandsche Afdeeling op de Intern. Tentooustellung. The Com- 

 mission. 

 Nevill, G. Mollusca in Indian Museum, Calcutta. Fasc. 3. The Author. 

 Newberry, J. S. Geological historj"^ of New York Island and harbor. 



New fossil fishes from the Trias. The Author. 

 Newcomb, I. Popular astronomy, 1878. Conarroe Fund. 

 New Granada, pamphlets on. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 New Jersey State Board of Agriculture, 5th annual report. G. II. Cook. 

 New York State Museum of Natural Ilistor}-, 27th and 28tli annual reports. 



The Regents of the University. 

 Nicholson, H. A. Ancient life-history of the earth. Conarroe Fund. 



Manual of zoology. 5th Ed.. 1878. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Novitates Conchologica>. I. Abth., 52 Lief. Suppl., IV. 13-19; Suppl. 



VI. 1-5. Wilson Fund. 

 Nuhn, A. Vergleichenden Anatomic. 2er Th. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Oebbeke, K. PaliBopikrits und seiner Umwandluugsproducte. University 



of Wurzburg. 

 Oliver, D. Flora of tropical -Vfrica. III. 1877. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Otago University Museum, Guide to collections. Directors of Museum. 

 Owen. R. Rare extinct vertebrates found fragmentarily in England. 



Fossil reptilia of the W^ealden and Purbeck Formations. Supplement 



VII. 

 Reptilian class Mosasaurida?. The Author. 

 Pabst, G. Cryptogamen-Flora. III. Bd. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Paetel, Fr. Catalog der Conchvlien-Sammlung. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 PakTontographica. 24 Bd., 6 ; 2d Bd., 1-5. Suppl. III. 7, Lief. III. 2. 



Wilson Fund. 




ADDITIONS TO LIBRARY. 453 



Palcontoloo;ie Franqaise. 2e Serie. Ter. Jar. Livr. 24, 35, and 39. Wil- 

 son Fund. 



Palgrave's Dutch Guiana. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Pano-born, J. G. New Rocky Mountain Tourist. A. B. Lemmon. 



Parker, A. J. Photographs of Negro brains. 



Parker, W. K., and G. T. Bettany. Morphology of the skull. Conarroe 

 Fund. 



Pastor Bonus, 1877. Royal Academy of Amsterdam. 



Paul, B. H. Industrial chemistry. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Peabody Museuni of American archeology and ethnology, 11th annual 

 report of trustees, 1878. The Authors. 



Peale, F. Pottery of the stone age. The Author. 



Peale, T. R. Figures of two new species of Lacerta. The Author. 



Peet, S. D. The Ashtabula Mastodon. The Author. 



Pennsylvania Board of Agriculture, 1st annual report, 1877. The Board. 



Pennsylvania and the Centennial Exhibition. 2 vols , 1878. Pennsylvania 

 Board of Centennial Managers. 



Peters, W. C. H. Reise nach Mossambique. Zoologie V. I. V. William- 

 son Fund. 



Pettingill's newspaper directory, 1878. The Publishers. 



Pharaoh's Daughter. 1st and 2d Ed. 1868-74. The Author. 



Plancy, V. Collin de. Insectes dipteres parasites des hatracieus. E. Taton. 



Plateau. Phenomenes de la digestion chez les insectes. 



L'appareil digestif chez les Araneides dipneumones. The Author. 



Poey, F. Enumeratio piscium Cubensium. The Author. 



Polk, L. L. Crop ])rospects from May to Sept. 1878, North Carolina. 

 Report to Board of Agriculture, 8d. 

 2d quarterly report, 1878. 

 Agricultural interests of North Carolina, 1878. The Author. 



Public Free Libraries, City of Manchester, 25th an. report. The Council. 



Public Ledger Almanac, 1878. Geo. W. Childs. 



Raimondi, A. El departamento de Ancachs y sus riquezas minerales. 

 Peru. 2 v., 1874. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Ratzel, F. Die Vereinigten Staaten von Nord-Amerika. I. V. Williamson 

 Fund. 



Rauber, A. Primitivstreifen und Neurula der Wirbelthiere. L V. Wil- 

 liamson Fund. 



Raymond. ]\Iineral resources west of the Rocky Mts., 1876. I V. Wil- 

 liamson Fund. 



Rea, J. Railways of New South Wales. Royal Society of New South 

 Wales . 



Reeve, L. Conchologia Iconica. 336-341, and Suppl. to Conus. Wilson 

 Fund. 



Regel, E. Tentamen Rosarum Monograph! se. The Author. 



Reichenbach, H. G. Xenia orchidacea. III. 1. Wilson Fund. 



Rein, J. J. Das Klima Japans. The Author. 



Reinsch, P. F. Neue Saprolegniese, etc. The Author. 



Remond, A. Geological Expl. in New Mexico. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Richet, Ch. o Sue gastrique, 1878. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Robinson, C. Progress and resources of New Soutli Wales. Royal Society 

 of New^ South Wales. 



Roemer, F. Geologie von Oberschlesien. The Author. 



Rogers, H. D. Geol. Reports of New Jersey. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Rogers, R. E., steel portrait of Dr. Jos. Leidy. 



Rohn, W. Ueber Isamylmcthylkcton. Isamyhnethylcarbinol und Isobu- 

 tylessigsaure. University of Wurzburg. 



Rostafinski, J., and M. Worouiu. Botrydium granulatuni. I. V. Willilim- 

 son Fund. 




454 ADDITIONS TO LIBRARY. 



Kowlfv. <;. D. Oriiitli()lo;ric:il :\Iiscclliiny. X-XIV. T. V. Williiiinson 



Fmnl. 

 Riinkcr, Au.ir. iVIftliylcintoiiHaurfi. Univcrsily of Wurzbiir;;. 

 Itiitl'iKT, E. II. Kxpldralions aiul surveys in ihc DfparlinciUs of the Mis- 

 souri, Ki'port. ]{ciuling Natural History Socioty. 

 Rupffcr, C, ami B. BcmiccIvc. Ei dcr Ucplilien. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Russ, K. Frenullandischen Stuljenvogel. 7e-9e Lief. I. V. Williamson 



Fund. 

 Russell, H. C. Climate of New South Wales. Royal Society of New South 



Wales. 

 Ryder, J. A. Gigantic extinct Armadillos and their peculiarities. 

 Mechanical genesis of toolh-forms. 



Addenda to paper on mechanical genesis of tooth-forms. Thb Author. 

 Saenz, N. Seccion de la Cordillera oriental, 1S7S. The Author. 

 Salter, J. W., and II. Hicks. Fossils from the "Menevian Group." 



Additional fossils from the Lingula-tlags. H. Hicks. 

 Saraluce y Zubizarrcta, I). N. de. Pescas y pesquerias de ballenas y de 



bacalaos, 1878. The Author. 

 Sars, M. Bidrag til Kundskab om Christianiafjordens Fauna. 1,2, 3. I. 



V. Williamson F'und. 

 Saussure, H. de. Melanges Orthopterologiques. Vme Fasc, 1877. The 



Author. 

 Schaufuss, L. W. Catalogue. Verz 133. The Author. 

 Schkuhr. RiedgrJisern. 2 v., 1801. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Scldeclitendal, D. F. L. de. Animadversioiies botanicai in Ranunculeas 



C;andollii, 1819. Chas. F. Parker. 

 Schliemaiin, H. M^'censc. Conarroe Fund. 

 Schmid, H. Milchsekretion. University of Wurzburg. 

 Schmidt, C. Vergeilen der Pflanzen. University of Wurzburg. 

 Schmidt, E. Priiliistorisclien Kupfergeriithe Nordamerikas. The Author. 

 Schnapp, H. Di.Tthy]betaox3'buttersaure. University of Wurzburg. 

 Schrauf, A. Krystall-Formen des Mineralreichs. V. I. V. AVilliamson 



Fund. 

 Schrenck, L. von. Reisen und Forschungen in Amur-Lande. Bd. 4, 3e 



Lief. Wilson Fund. 

 Secretary of Interior, letter of, regarding Hayden's Surveys, 1878. Depart- 

 ment of Interior. 

 Selby, P. J. Parrots. Wilson Fund. 



Selfridge. Isthmus of Daricn, 1874. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Selwyn, A. R. C. Geological Survey of Canada. Report, 1876-77, The 



Survey. 

 Semper, C. Reisen im Archipel der Philippinen, 2er Th., 2er Bd, XII,- 



XIII. ; 3er Bd., IV. and Erganzungsheft. Wilson Fund. 

 Shann, G. Elementary treatise on heat, 1877. I, V. Williamson Fund. 

 Sheridan, P. H., and W. T. Sherman. Country north of Union Pacific 



Railroad, 1878. War Department. 

 Shufeldt, Isthmus of Tehuantepec, 1872. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Shuttleworth, R. J. Notiti;^^ Malacologica;, 1878, Paul Fischer. 

 Simson, AV. History of the Gipsies. 2d"Ed.,1878. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Sinsleton, O. R. Speech of, on the Ilayden Survey. Dep. of Interior. 

 Smilh, E. A. Geological survey of Alabama, 1874, 1875. I. V, AVilliam- 



son Fund. 

 Smithsonian Institution, Reports, 1876, 1877. The Institution. 

 Snellen von Vollenhoveu, S. C. Pinacographia, Pt. 6. I. V. Williamson 



Fund. 

 Sommerville, J. M. Ocean life, 1869. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Southall, Jas. C. Epoch of the Mammoth. Conarroe Fund, 




ADDITIONS TO LIBRARY. 455 



South Kensington Museum. Conferences held in connection -with special 

 loan collection of scientific apparatus, 1876. Conarroe Fund. 

 Free evening lectures, 1870. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Speck, Dr. Wirkung des veranderten Luftdrucks auf den Athemprocess. 



The Author. 

 Squier, E. G. Documents concerning the discovery and conquest of 

 America. 

 Authors on the languages of Central America. I. V. Williamson Fund, 

 Stahl, E. Entwickelungsgeschichte der Flechten. I. II. I. V. William- 

 son Fund. 

 State Board of xVgriculture, Kansas, 5th annual report, 1876. Alfred Gray. 

 Stearns, R. E. C. List of papers on natural history. The Author. 

 Stohr, P. Conus arteriosus der Salachier, Chimseren und Ganoiden. Uni- 

 versity of Wurzburg. 

 Stoppani, A. Paleontologie Lombarde. Livr. 54 and 55. Wilson Fund. 

 Stahl, E. Geschlechtliche Fortpflanzung der Collenaceen. University of 



Wurzburg. 

 Strasburger, E. Befruchtung und Zelltheilung, 1878. I. V. Williamson 



Fund. 

 Strebel, H. Fauna Mexikanischer Land-und-Suswasser-Conchylien. III. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Strecker, H. Lepidoptera. Rhopaloceres and Heteroceres, Nos. 14 and 15. 

 The Author. 

 Butterflies and moths of North America. The Author. 

 Stur, D. Culm Flora der Ostrauer und Waldenburger Schichten. The 



Author. 

 Taton, E. Dipteres parasites de la Eana esculenta. The Author. 

 Tavlor, R. C. Statistics of Coal. 2d Ed., 1855. S. S. Haldeman. 

 Teiliamed, 1797. Dr James M. Magraw. 

 Thermometre et Barometre en Neerlande, 1843-75. Royal Meteorological 



Institute. 

 Thomas, T. G. Intra-venous injection of milk, 1878. 

 Laparo-elytrotomy, 1878. 



Ciesarean section and laparo-elytrotomy in New York. The Author. 

 Thomson, C. W. Voyage of Challenger. The Atlantic. I. Y. Williamson 



Fund. 

 Tommasi, D. Forza catalitica spiegata secondo la teoria termodinamica. 



Riduzione dei clorati in cloruri. The Author. 

 Topinard, P. Anthropology, 1878. Conarroe Fund. 

 Trinidad official and commercial register and almanack, 1878. R. J. L'. 



Guppy. 

 Troschel, F. H. Das Gebiss der Schueckeu. 2eu Bd., 5e Lief Wilson 



Fund. 

 Trustees of Astor Library, 29th annual report, 1877. The Authors. 

 Trustees of N. Y. State Library, 59th annual report. The Trustees. 

 Tyler, E. B. Early history of mankind, 1878. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 United States Coast Survey Reports, 1860, 1861, and 1862. Wm. S. Yaux. 

 U. S. Commission of Fish and Fisheries, Report 1875-76. The Author. 

 U. S. Geological and Geographical Survey of Territories. Miscellaneous 

 publications, Nos. 9 and 10. Bulletin IV. 1, 2, and 3. 

 Preliminary Report, 1877. 

 Report, Vol. 7. Department of Interior. 



1st annual report ot United States Entomological Commission, 1877. 

 Department of Interior. 

 U. S. Geogr. and Geol. Surv. of the Rocky Mountain Region. Contribu- 

 tions to North American ethnology. Vol. 3. Report, 1877. De- 

 partment of Interior. '' 

 U. S, Geological exploration of the 40th par. Report, Vol. lY. Atlas 

 accompanying report, 1876. War Department. 




450 ADDITIONS TO L1HHARY. 



U. S. (Jpotrrnphiral Survey wftst oC lOOlli Mcr. I{c|H)its, Vols. II. aiul TV. 

 Piilcniitoloiry. EiijriiK'cr Dcp. U. S. A. 



U S. Niitioiiiil MiisLMiin. liullelin, Xos. 1, 8, 0, 10. Dcj). of Inlirior. 



Ure's Diclioiiiiry of Arts, etc. 2 v., and Supplt'incnt. I. V. Williiiinson 

 Fund. 



Van Bcncdcn and Gervais. Osteographie dcs ci'taces vivants ct fossiles. 

 Pts. IT) and IG. I V. Williamson Fund. 



Vogt, C. Entozoaires de riionimc ct iciir ('volution. 1. V. Williamson 

 Fnnd. 



Wallace, A. R. Tropical nature. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Warnecke, G. AUiminate. University of Wnrzbnrg. 



Wattenwyl, C. B. v. Phaneropteriden, 1878. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Weis, N., and P. M. Siegen. Carte geologique du Grande-Duclie de Lux- 

 embourg. Institnt Hoyal. 



Weisbacli. A. Korpermessiingen verschiedener Menschenrassen. I. V. 

 Williamson Fnnd. 



Weiss, G. A. Allgemeine Botanik. I. Bd. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Wheeler's Topographical atlas, 1874. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



While, W. W. Drainage of O.xford. Ashmolean Society. 



Whiteaves, J. F. Jurassic fossils from Coast Range of Britisli Columliia. 

 The Author. 



Whitfield, R. P. Report on paleontology of Black Hills. Dep. of Int. 



Whitney's Life and growth of language. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Wild, J. J. Thalassa. Conarroc Fund. 



Wiliemoes-Suhm, R. v. Challenger-Briefe. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



William, Lord Archljishop of York. The worth of life. Leeds Philoso- 

 phical Societ^^ 



Williamson, J. Ferns of Kentucky. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Wittstein, G. C. Organic constituents of plants, 1878. Baron von Mueller. 



Woeikof. Memoire expl. pour les cartes el diagrammes, 1878. The Author. 



AVolff, C. Diallylacetessigester und seine Derivate. University of Wurz- 

 burg. 



WoodrutI" scientific expedition around the world, 1879-80. The Author. 



Yarrell, W. British Birds. 4th Ed., XI. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Zeiizchel, E. Ortsbestimmung zweifach subslituirter Benzole. University 

 of VVurzburg. 



Zoological Record. Vol. 18. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



JOURXALS AXD PP]R IODIC ALS. 



Akron. District Historical Society. 2d Report. The Society. 

 Amsterdam. K. Akademie van VVetenschappen. Verslagen en Mededee- 

 lingen, Afd. Letterkunde, 2e Reeks, 6 Deel. Afd. Naturkunde, 2e 

 Reeks, 11 Deel. 

 Jaarboek, 1876. 



Processen-Verbaal. Afd. Xat. Mei 1870 to Apr. 1877. 

 Verhandlingen, Deel 12 and 17. Afd. Letterk. Deel 1-6, 9, 11. The 

 Society. 

 Angers. Societe Acaderaique de Maine et Loire. Memoires. T. 33, 34. 



The Society. 

 Auxerre. Societe des Sciences historiquesetnaturelles de I'Yonne. Vols. 



31 and 32. The Society. 

 Baltimore. American Journal of Mathematics. Vol. I. Xos. 1-3. The 

 Editor. 

 Peabody Institute, 11th annual report. The Institute. 

 Bamberg. Naturforschende Gesellschaft, Her Bericht. The Society. 




ADDITIONS TO LIBRARY. 457 



Basel. Schweizerische naturforscheude Gesellschaft. Verliancllun;;jen, o9 



Jahresvers. The Society. 



Naturforschende Gesellschaft. Yerhandluugen, 6er Th., 3 and 4 H. 



The Society. 



Batavia. Natuurkundig Vereen in Nederlandsch Indie. Tijdschrift. 2e 



Jahrg. ; 3e Jahrg. 1, 4-6 Afl. Nieuwe Serie, Deel 2, Afl. 5 and 6 ; 



Deel 4-7. Derde Serie, Deel 1 ; Deel 2, Afl. 4-6 ; Deel 3 ; Deel 4, 



Afl. 1-3. Vijde Serie, Deel 1 ; Deel 2, Afl. 1 and 2. Zesde Serie, 



Deel 3, Afl. 1-3. Zevende Serie, Deel 2, Afl. 1-3 ; Deel 7. The Society. 



Belfast. Natural History and Philosoi^hical Society. Proceedings, 1876 



-1878. The Society. 

 Berlin. Arcliiv fiir Natnrgeschichte, 31 Jahrg. o H.; 34er Jahrg. 3 and 4 

 H. ; 41 Jahrg. 6es H. ; 42 Jahrg. 5 H. ; 44 Jahrg. 1-3 H. The Editor. 

 Deutsche sreologische Gesellschaft. Zeitschrift 29 Bd. 3 H.-30 Bd. 2 H. 



The Society. 

 Entomologische Vereiu. Zeitschrift 21er Jahrg. 2 H.; 22er Jahrg. 1 H. 



The Society. 

 Gesellschaft fiir Mikroskopie. Zeitschrift, H. 1. The Society. 

 Gesellschaft Naturforschender Freunde. Sitzungsberichte, 1877. The 



Society. 

 K. Preussischen Akademie der Wisseuschaften. Monatsbericht, Aug. 



1877-Aug. 1878. 

 Abhandluugen, mathematische, 1876, 1877; physikalische, 1876, 1877. 



The Society. 

 Der Naturforscher. 10 Jahrg., No. 40-11 Jahrg., No. 39. The Editor. 

 Verein zur Beforderung des Gartenbaues. Monatsschrift, 20 Jahrg., 



Jan.-Dec. 1877. The Society. 

 Zeitsclirift fur die gesammten Naturwissenschaften. Neue Folge, Bd. 

 13, 14 ; 3e Folge, Bd. 1. The Editor. 

 Bern. Naturforschende Gesellschaft. Mittlieilungen, 1876, Nos. 906-922. 



The Society. 

 Bonn. Archiv fiir mikroskopische Anatomic. 14 Bd. 1 H.-16 Bd. 1 H. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Bordeaux. Societe Linneenne. Actes T. 31, 4-6 Livr. Atlas and extraits 

 des Comptes Reudus, pp. 1-72. The Society. 

 Societe des Sciences physiques et naturelles. Memoires 2e Ser, T, 2, 

 le and 2e Cahier. The Society. 

 Boston. American Academy of Arts and Sciences. Proceedings. Vol.13, 

 Nos. 1-3. The Society. 

 American Naturalist, Dec. 1877. See Philada. The Editor. 

 Literary World, Vol. 8, No. 2. The Editor. 

 Society of Natural History. Proceedings. Vol. 19, pp. 239-430. 

 Memoirs. Vol. 2, Pt. 4, No. 6; Vol. 3, Pt. 1, No. 1. The Society. 

 Braunschweig. Archiv fiir Anthropologic. 10 Bd. 4 Viertlj.; 11 Bd. 1 and 



2 Viertlj. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Bremen. Naturwissenschaftliche Vereiu. Abhandlungeu. 5 Bd. 4 H.; 



Beilage No. 6. The Society. 

 Bristol. Naturalists' Society. Proceedings. N. S., Vol. 2, Pts. 1 and 2. 



The Society. 

 Brooklyn. Entomological Society. Bulletin, Nos. 1, 4-8. The Society. 

 Briiun. Naturforschende Verein. Verhandlungcu, 14. The Society. 

 Bruxelles. Societe Beige de Microscopic. Bulletin, 4me Annee, Proces 

 Verbaux, 25 Oct.'l877-13 Oct. 1878. The Society. 

 Societe Entomologique de Belgique. Compte-Reudu, Serie 2, Nos. 



44-46, 48-57. 

 Annales, T. 20. The Society. ^ 



30 




458 ADDITIONS TO LIBRARY. 



Buda Pest. M. Tudoin. Akademia Almanach, 1870-78. 



Ertekezesck a .Math. Tudomaiiyok Konlbol. 4 Kotcf, .T Szam to 



Kolct, 7 Szam. 

 Matli. OS Tcriiu'szef. Kozlciin'nyck. 11-1:3 Kiitct. 

 Hazai es Kiilloldi Folyoiratok M. Tiidoin. I{ci)ortor. I. 

 ]fivkoiiyv<i, Tizenncg. K6l(!t 7 and 8 Daral); Tizeuot. Kotet, 2 Darab. 



Tlie Socifty. 

 Ungaiisclun National Museum. Naturliistorische Heft. IIM.; 2 Bd. 

 1-4. The f:ditor. 

 Buenos Aires. Socicdad Cientifica Argentina. Anales 1878, Julio et Agosto. 



The Society. 

 Bufl'alo. Society of Natural Sciences. Bulletin, Vol. 3, No. 5. Tlie Society. 

 Caen. Acadeinie nationale des Sciences, Arts et Belles-Lcttres. Meuioires, 

 1877. The Society. 

 Association des Institutenrs. Bulletin, 187fi. The Society. 

 Societe Liun^eune de Normandie. Bulletin, 2e Serie, 3e-8e vol. The 

 Society. 

 Calcutta. Asiatic Society of Bengal, Journal. Vols. 3.1i-4G ; Vol. 45, Pt. 

 1, No. 3- Vol. 46, Pt. 2, No. 3. The Society. 

 Same. Vol. 4o, Pt. 1, No. 1-Vol. 47, Pt. 2, No. 1. Isaac Lea. 

 Proceedings. 18GG-7."), and 187G, No. 9-1877, No. 9. The Society. 

 Same. 1870, Xo. 3-1878, No. 6. Isaac Lea. 



Stray Feathers. Vol. fi. No. 2- Vol. 7, No. 2. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Cambridge. Museum of Comparative Zoology. Memoirs, Vol. .5, No. 2 ; 

 Vol. VI. No. 2. 

 Bulletin. Vol. 5, Nos. 1-7, 10 ; Vol. VI. The Director. 

 Nuttall Ornithological Club. Bulletin, Jan.-Oct. 1878. The Society. 

 Psyche. Nos. 3!)"-r)7. The Editor. 

 Cap Rouge. Le Naturaliste Canadien. Vol. IX. No. 11-Vol. X. No. 11. 



The Editor. 

 Caracas. Gaceta cientifica de Venezuela. I. 10, 11, 14; II. 1-9. The 



Editor. 

 Cassel. Malakozoologische Blatter. Bd. 24, Bg. 10, et scq. ; Bd. 25, Bg. 



1-10. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Chemnitz. Naturwissenschaftliche Gesellschaft. GerBericht. The Society. 

 Cherbourg. Societe Nationale des Sciences Naturelles. Memoires, T. 20. 



The Society. 

 Chicago. Academy of Sciences, Annual address, 1878. The Society. 

 Christiania. Archiv for Mathematik og Naturv. 2 Bd. 1 H.-3 Bd, 2 H. 



The Editor. 

 Cincinnati. The Paleontologist, Nos. 1 and 2. The Editor. 



Society of Natural History. Journal, Apr., July, 1878. The Society. 

 Zoological Society. Fourth Annual Report. The Society. 

 Cleveland. American Antiquarian. Vol. 1, Nos. 1 and 2. The Editor. 

 Copenhagen. K. D. Videuskabernes Selskab. Oversigt, 187G, 3; 1877, 2 

 and 3; 1878, 1. 

 Skrifter, ote Rfckke. XI. 5. The Society. 

 Danzig. Naturforsciiende Gesellschaft. Schriften, ISTeue Folge, 4 Bd. 2 



H. The Society. 

 Darmstadt. Verein fiir Erdkunde. Notizblatt, 3 Folge, 16 H. The 



Society. 

 Davenport. Academv of Natural Sciences. Plates 1, 2,3; Proceedings, 



Vol. 2, Pt. 1. The Society. 

 Dijon. Academic des Sciences, Arts et Belles-Lettres. 3me Serie, T. 4. 



The Society. 

 Dorpat. Naturforscher Gesellschaft. Sitzungsberichte, 4 Bd. 3 H. The 

 Society. 

 Archiv t\ir die Naturkunde Liv- Ehst- und Kurlands. le Serie, Bd. 8, 

 No. 3 ; 2d Series, Bd. 7, No. 4 ; Bd. 8, Nos. 1 and 2. The Editor. 




ADDITIONS TO LIBRARY. 459 



Dresden. K. Zoologische Museum. Mittheilungen. 2es H. I. V. Wil- 

 liamson Fund. 

 Naturwissenschaftliclie Gesellscliaft Tsis. 1877, Juli-Dec. The Society. 

 Verein fiir Erdkunde. Jahresbericht, 13 and 14. The Society. 

 Dublin. Royal Geological Society of Ireland. Journal. Vol. 14, Nos. 3 

 and 4. The Society. 

 Royal Irish Academy. Proceedings. Vol. 9, Pts. 3 and 3 ; Ser. II. 



Vol. 1, No. 11, Vol. 2, Nos. 4-6. 

 Transactions. Science, XXV. 20 ; XXVI. 1-16. Polite Literature and 

 Antiquities. XXVI. Pt. 1. The Society. 

 Edinburgh. Botanical Society. Transactions. Vol. 13, Pt. 1. The Society. 

 Royal Society. Proceedings. Vol. 9, No. 96. 

 Transactions. Vol. 28, Pt. 1. The Society. 

 Scottish Naturalist. Nos. 29-32. Tl\e Editor. 

 Elberfeld. Naturwissenschaftliche Verein. Jahresberichte, 5es H. The 



Society. 

 Emden. Naturforschende Gesellschaft, 62er Jahresb. The Society. 

 Erfurt. K. Akademie genieinutziger Wissenschaften. Jahrbuch, Neue 



Folge, 8 and 9 H. The Society. 

 Erlangen. Physikalisch-medicinische Socletiit. Sitzungsberichte, 9 H. 



The Society. 

 Frankfurt a. 31. Aerztliche Verein. Jahresberichte, 21. The" Society. 

 Deutsche Malakozoologische Gesellschaft. Jahrbucher 1 Jahrg. 4 ; 4 



Jahrg. 1-.5; Jahrg. 1. 

 Nachrichtsblatt. Nos. 1-8. The Society. 



Der Naturforscher. X Jahrg. 15-22, 24-26. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Der Zoologische Garten. 18 Jahrg. 1-19, Jahrg. 6. The Society. 

 Freiburg i.B. Naturforschende Gesellschaft. Bericht, Bd. 7, H. 2. The 



Society. 

 Geneva. Bibliotheque Universelle, 1872-1876, and 1877, Nos. 229-239. I. 

 V. Williamson Fund. 

 Schweizerische paliiontologische Gesellschaft. Abhandlungen, Vol. 4. 



The Society. 

 Societe de Physique et d'Histoire Naturelle. Memoires, Tome 25, 1. 

 The Society. 

 Genoa. Societa di Lettura e C(mversazioni scientiiiche. Effemeridi, 1875, 

 Disp. 1-6. 

 Giornale, Anno 1, Fasc. 1-7 ; Anno 2, Fasc. 1-9. The Society. 

 Glasgow. Natural History Society. Proceedings. Vol. 3, Pts. 2 and 3.' 

 The Society. 

 Philosophical Society. Proceedings. Vol. 11, No. 1. The Society. 

 Gorlitz. Naturforschende Gesellschaft. Abhandlungen, 6 Bd. 1-7; Bd. 1. 



The Society. 

 Gottingen. K. Gesellschaft der Wissenschaften. Nachrichten, 1877. The 



Society. 

 Grand Rapids. The Naturalist and Fancier Vol. 8, No. 1. The Editor. 

 Graz. Naturwissenschaftliche Verein fiir Steiermark. Jahrg. 1877. The 

 Editor. 

 Verein der Aerzte in Steiermark. Mittheilungen Vereinsjahr, 1876-77. 

 The Society. 

 Halifax. Nova Scotian Institute of Natural Science. Proceedings and 



Transactions. Vol. 4, Pts. 3 and 4. The Society 

 Halle. Naturforschende Gesellschaft. Abhandlungen, 1 3 Bd. 4 H. The 



Societ^^ 

 Hamburg. Naturwissenschaftliche Verein. Abhandlungen, 6 Bd. 1 Abth. 



Veriiandlungen, Neue Folge, 1 and 2. The Society. ' 



Hannover. Naturhistorische Gesellschaft. Jahrsbericht, 1, 2, 5-7, 9, 25, 

 and 26. 




460 ADDITIONS TO LIHKAUY. 



Hanover. Botfinical Gazette. Vol. 3, Nos. 1-11. Tlie Editor. 



Harlem. Societt' Ilollandaise des Seiences. Archives T. 11, 4 Livr. ; T. 



13, 1 Livr.; T. i:^, l-;j Livr. The Society. 

 Harrisl)urjr. Pennsylvania Fruit Growers' Society, Report, 1877. The 



Society- 

 Hartford. Fanciers' Journal. Vol. 4, No. 2. Sec Springfield, Familiar 



Science. 

 Innsbruck. Ferdinandcum. Zeitschrift, 3 Folgc, 21 and 22 II. Tiie 



Director. 

 Jena. Medicinisch-naturwissenschaftliche Gesellschaft. Zeitschrift, 11 



Bd. 3 H-12 Bd. 3 H. The Society. 

 Kansas City. Western Iteview of Science and Industry. Nov. 1877-Nov. 



1878. The Editor. 

 Konigsberg. Physikalisoh-okonomische Gesellschaft. Schriftcn, 17 Jahrg. 



1-18 Jahrir. 1. The Society. 

 Lausanne. Socicte Vaudoise des Sciences Naturelles. Bulletin, Nos. 



79-80. The Society. 

 Leipzig. Archiv fiir Anatomic und Physiologie. Anatomische Abth., 1877, 

 4 H.-1878, 3 H. Physiologische Abth. 1877, 4 H.-1878, 4 H. I. V. 

 Williamson Fund. 

 Jahrhuch liir wissenscbaftliclie Botanik. 11 Bd. 3 and 4 H. I. V. 



WiUfamson Fund. 

 Journal fiir Ornithologie. 25 Jahrg. 3 H-2G Jahrg. 2 H. I. V. Wil- 

 liamson Fund. 

 Kosmos. I. Jahrg. 8-II. Jahrg. 7. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Morphologisches Jahrbuch. 4 Bd 1 and 2 H., and Supplement. I. 



V. Williamson Fund. 

 Naturforschende Gesellschaft. Sitzungsberichte, 1877, Nos. 2-10. The 



Society. 

 Zeitschrift fiir Krystallograpliie und Mineralogie. 2 Bd. 1-5 H. I. V. 



Williamson Fund. 

 Zeitschrift fiir wissenschaftlichen Zoologie. 29 Bd. 4 H.-31 Bd. 2 II. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Zoologischer xVnzeiger. 1 Jahrg. 1-8. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Lille. Bulletin scientifique du Department du Nord. 1878, Feb. -Sept. 

 The Editor. 

 Societe des Sciences de TAgriculture et des Arts. Memoires, 4e Serie, 

 T. 3. The Society. 

 Lisbon. Academia Real das Sciencias. Journal de Sciencias matliem, 

 phys. e nat. T. 4, T. 5, No. 23. 

 Confercncias. 1, 2, and 3. 



Sessao publica, Dec. 12, 1875, and IMaio 15, 1877. 



Memorias, Classe de Sciencias math. phys. e nat. Nova Serie T. 5, No. 



1. Classe de Sciences mor., pol. e bellas-lettras. Nov. Ser. T. 4, 



Nos. 1 and 2. The Society. 



Associacao dos Eugenheiros Civis Portuguezas. Revista de Obras 



publicas e j\Iinas. T. 7, 8, and 9. The Society. 



Liverpool. Literary and Philosophical Society. Proceedings. No. 31. 



The Society. 

 London. Annals and Magazine of Natural History. Dec. 1877-Nov. 1878. 

 I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Astronomical Register. Nov. 1877-Oct. 1878. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Curtis's Botanical Magazine. Nos, 1089-1100. I. V. Williamson 



Fund. 

 Entomological Society. Transactions, 1877. The Society. 

 Gardener's Chronicle. Vol. 8, Nos. 203-254. The Editor. 

 Geological Magazine. Nov. 1877-Oct. 1878. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Geological Society. Quarterly Journal, Nos. 133-135. The Society. 




ADDITIONS TO LIBRARY. 461 



Hardwicke's Science Gossip. Nov. 1877-Oct. 1878. I. V. Williamson 



Fund. 

 Ibis. Oct. 1877-July, 1878. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Journal of Anatomy and Pli5'siology. Vol. 13, Pt. 3-Vol. 13, Ft. 1. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Journal of Botany, British and Foreign. Nov. 1877-Sept. 1878. 1. V. 



Williamson Fund. 

 Journal of Physiology. Vol. I. Xos. 1-3. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 London, Edinburgh, and Dublin Philosophical Magazine. Dec. 1877 



-Xov. 1878. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Linnean Society. Journal. Botany, Vol. 15, No. 85-Vol. 10, No. 93. 



Zoology, Vol. 13, No. 64- Vol. 13. No. 71. Transactions, 3d Ser. 



Zoology, Vol. 1, Pt. 4. Botany, Vol. 1, Pt. 4. Lists, 1876. The 



Society. 

 Mineralogical Society of Great Britain and Ireland. Mineralogical 



Magazine. Vol. 3, Nos. 1-10. The Society. 

 Montiilj^ Microscopical Journal. Nov. and Dec. 1877. I. V. William- 

 son Fund. 

 Nature. Nos. 431-471. The Editor. 

 Notes and Queries. Nov. 1877-Oct. 1878 The Editor. 

 Paleontological Society. Publications. Vols. 31 and 33. Wilson Fund. 

 Popular Science Review. Jan.-July, 1878. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Quarterly Journal of Concholog}'. Vol 1, Nos. 5, 11-15. The Editor. 

 Quarterly Journal of Microscopical Science. Jan. -Oct. 1878. I. V. 



Williamson Fund. 

 Quarterly Journal of Science. Jan.-July, 1878. I. V. Williamson 



Fund. 

 Queckett Microscopical Club. Journal. Vols 1-4. The Society. 

 Roval Geographical Society. Proceedings. Vol. 33, Nos. 1-6. Journal. 



Vol. 47. The Society. 

 Royal Institution of Great Britain. Proceedings. Vol. 8, Pts. 3 and 



4. The Society. 

 Roval Microscopical Society. Journal. Vol. 1, No. 1. The Society. 

 Royal Society. Proceedings. Vol. 35, No. 176- Vol. 36, No. 183. 

 Philosophical Transactions. Vol. 166, Pt. 3, and Vol. 167, Pt. 1. The 



Society. 

 Society of Arts. Journal. Vol. 35. The Society. 

 Triibner's American and Oriental Literary Record. Nos. 139-134. 



Tlie Publishers. 

 Zoological Society. Proceedings. 1877, Pt. 3-1878, Pt. 3. Transac- 

 tions. Vol 10, Pts. 3-9. Report, 1877. The Society. 

 Zoologist. Nov. 1877-Oct. 1878. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 London, Ca. Canadian Entomologist. Vol. 9, No. 11-Vol. 10, No. 11. 



The Editor. 

 Louvain. Universite Catholique. Annuaire, 43 Anne. Thirty-two Theses. 



Society Literaire, Choix de Memoires, 13. The University. 

 Luxembourg. Institut Royal. Publications. T. 16. The Society. 

 Lyons. Academic des* Sciences, Belles-Lettres et Arts. Memoires, Classe 



de Sciences, T. 31 and 33. Classe des Lettres, T. 17. The Society. 

 ■ Societe d' Agriculture, Histoire Naturelle et Aris utiles. Anaales, 4me 



Serie, T. 8. The Society. 

 Madrid. Memorial de Ingenieros., Ano 33, Nos. 1-31. The Editor. 

 Manchester. Scientific Students' Association. Annual Report, 1875, 1876. 



The Society. 

 Marburg. Gesellschaft fiir Beforderung der gesammten Naturwissen- 



schaften. Sitzungsberichte, Jahrg. 1876 and 1877. The Societ^\ 

 Metz. Academic. Memoires, 77e Aunee. The Society. 




462 ADDITIONS TO MnUAHY. 



Mexico. Ministorio (Ic Fonifiito. Aiialfs 2 nml 15. The Author. 

 Miisco Nncional. Analfs I. 1-4. The Director. 

 Socic'dad dc (Jcoj^rafiay Kstadistica dc la Hcpuljlica Mcxicana. IJolctin, 



3h E])<)ca, Tomo 4, Nos. 1-3. The Society. 

 Sociedad Mcxicana de llistoria Natural. La Naturaleza, Tome 3, No. 

 13-T. 4, No. 7. The Society. 

 Milan, liegio Instituto tecbnico superiore. Programma, 1877-78. The 



Society. 

 Milwaukee. Naturliistorische Verein von Wisconsin, Jabresbcricht, 



1877-78. Tiie Society. 

 Minneapolis. Minnesota Academy of Natural Sciences. Bulletin, 1877. 



The Society. 

 Mons. Societc des Sciences, des Arts et des Lettres du Hainaut. Memoires 



et publications. 4 Ser. T. 2. The Society. 

 Montpellier. Academic des Sciences et Lettres. Memoires de la Section 



des Sciences, T. 9, ler Fasc. The Society. 

 Montreal. Canadian Naturalist. N. S. VIII. r,-7. The Editor. 

 Moscou. Societc Iniperialc des Amis des Sciences Naturelles, d'Antbropo- 

 logie et Htlmoiirapliie, 187«. The Society. 

 Societe Imperiale des Naturalistes. Bulletin, 1829 ; 1830 ; 1832 ; 1837 ; 

 1838, I. and IV.; 1839; 1841, I.; 1842, IV.; 1843, II. IV.; 1844, L 

 IV.; 1846, I. v.; 1851, I. II.; 1877, Nos. 1-4. 

 Nouveau Memoires, I. VI. VII. IX. The Society. 

 Munich. Gesellscbaft I'iir Antbropologie, Etbnologie und Urgescbicbte. 

 Beitrage I. l-II. 3. The Society. 

 K. B. Akademie der Wis^^enschat'leu. Sitzungsbericbte, Matbera.-pbys. 



Classe 1877, II. 2 and 3. 

 Almanacb, 1878. 

 Abhandlungen, Historische Classe 13en Bd. 3e Abtb. Pbilos.-pbilol. 



Classe, 14en Bd. 2e Abtb. The Society. 

 Versammlung Deutscber Naturforscher und Aerzte. Amtlicber 



Bericbt, 1877. Dr. Jos. Leidy. 

 K. Sternwart. Beobacbtnngen, 38, Jabrg. Annalen, Supplement zum 

 21 Bd. The Observatory, 

 ^liinster. Westfiiliscbeu Provinzial Verein fiir Wissenscbaft und Kunst. 



Jabresbericbt, Ger. The SocietJ^ 

 Nancy. Societe des Sciences. Bulletin, Serie 2, T. 3, Fasc. G and 7. The 



Society. 

 Naples. R. Istituto d'Incorraggiainento aile Scieuze Naturali, ecouoraicbe 

 e techuol. Atti, 2da Ser. XIV. 1 and 2. 

 Programme, 1878. The Society. 

 Neubrandeuburg. Verein der Freunde der Naturgescbicbte in Mecklen- 

 burg. 31 Jabrg. The Society. 

 Neucbatel. Societe des Sciences Naturelles. Bulletin, T. 11, ler Cabier. 



The Society. 

 Newcastle-upon-Tyne. Natural History Society of Nortbumberland and 



Durham. Transactions, Vol. 7, Pt. 1. The Societ}\ 

 New Haven. The American Journal of Science and Arts. Dec. 1877 

 -Nov. 1878. The Editor. 

 Connecticut Academy of Arts and Sciences. Transactions, III. 2 ; IV. 

 1. The Society. 

 New York. Academj' of Sciences. Annals. Vol. 1, Nos. 1-4. The Society. 

 American Geographical Society. Bulletin, Session 187G-77, No. 4 



-1878, No. 1. Journal, Vols. 7 and 8. Tbe Society. 

 American Journal of Microscopy. Vol. 2, No. 12-Vol. 3, No. 10. 



Tbe Editor. 

 American Quarterly Microscopical Journal. Vol 1, No. 1. The Editor. 

 Library Journal. Vol. 2. No. 3- Vol. 3, No. 8. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Library Table. Vol. IV. No. 9. The Editor. 




ADDITIONS TO LIBRARY. 463 



Lyceum of Natural History. Annals, Vol. II. Nos. 9-12. The Society. 



Medical Eclectic. Jau.-Sept. 1878. The Editor. 



Medical .Journal. Dec. 1877-Nov. 1878. The Editor. 



Popular Science Monthly. Nos. 69-80. Supplement, Nos. 8-18. The 



Editor. 

 Princeton Keview. 34th Year, Sept. and Nov. The Editor. 

 Torrey Botanical Club. Bulletin, Nos. 35-46. The Society. 

 Young Scientist. Vol. 1, Nos. 1 and 11. The Editor. 

 Offenbach am Main. Verein fiir Naturkunde. Bericht, 15 and 16. ■ The 



Society. 

 Ontario. Entomological Society. Annual Repoit, 1878. The Society. 

 Orleans. Societe d' Agriculture, Sciences, Belles-Lettres et Arts. Memoires, 



2e Ser. T. 19me, No. 2. The Society. 

 Palermo. Societa di Scienze Naturali ed economiche Bulletino, No. 4 



and No. 6. Giornale, Vol. 12. The Society. 

 Paris. Annates de Malacologie. T. 1, Nos. 1-3. The Editor. 



Aunales dea Mines. 7me Serie, 5e Livr. 1877-4 Livr. 1878. Minister 



of Public Works, France. 

 Annales des Sciences Geologique. T. 9, Nos. 1-3. The Editor. 

 Annales des Sciences Naturelles. Zool. and Pal. T. 5, No. 6-T. 7, 

 No. 4. Botanique. T. 4, No. 4-T. 7, No. 4. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Archives de Zoologie, exp. etgen. 1877, No. 2. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Journal de Conchyliologie. 3e Serie, T. 17, Nos. 3 and 4; T. 18, Nos. 



I, 3, and 4. The Edilor. 



Journal de Zoologie. T. 6, Nos. 4-6. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Moniteur Scientifique. Livr. 121-124, 126-164, 166-169, 173. Dr. 



Robert Bridges, 

 Revue Internationale des Sciences. Nos. 1-45. The Editor. 

 Revue Scientifique. 7me Annee, No. ll-8me Annee, No. 19. The 



Editor. 

 Societe d'Acclimatation. Bulletin. Oct. 1877-Aout, 1878. The Society. 

 Societe Botanique de la France. Bulletin, T. 23nie. Ses. Ext. de 



Lyon ; T. 24me Rev. Bibl. B-E ; Comptes Rendu 2. The Society. 

 Societe Geologique de la France. Bulletin, 3e Ser. T. 5me, Nos. 7 and 



8 ; T. 6me, Nos. 1-3. The Society. 

 Societe Zoologique. Bulletin, 1877, Nos. 3-5. The Society. 

 Perth. Scottish Naturalist. Nos. 9-28. Tlie Editor. 

 Philadelphia. Academy of Natural Sciences. Proceedings, 1877, Pt. 3- 



1878, Pt. 2. The Publication Committee. 

 American Entomological Society. Transactions, Vol. 6, No. 3-Vol. 



7, No. 4. The Society. 

 American Journal of Medical Sciences. Jan. -Oct. 1878. The Editor. 

 American Journal of Pharmacy. Dec. 1877-Nov. 1878. The Editor. 

 American Naturalist. Jau.-Nov 1878. The Editor. 

 American Pharmaceutical Association. Proceedings, 25th Annual 



Meeting. The Society. 

 American Philosophical Society. Proceedings. Vol. 17, Nos. 10 and 



II. List of Members. The Society. 



Dental Cosmos. Dec. 1877-Nov. 1878 The Editor. 

 •Franklin Institute. Journal, Dec. 1877-Nov. 1878. The Society. 

 Gardener's Monthly. Dec. 1877-Nov. 1878. Tlie Editor. 

 Historical Society of Pennsylvania. Pennsylvania Magazine of History 



and Biography. Vol. 1, No. 1-Vol. 2, No. 3. Tlie Society. 

 Medical News and Library. Nos. 420-431. The Editor. 

 Naturalist's Leisure Hour. Vol. 2, No. 4. Tlie Editor. 

 Penn Montlily. Dec. 1877-March, 1878. The Editor. 

 Pennsylvania Horticultural Society, 50th Anniversary. J. E. Mitcliell. 




464 ADDITIONS TO LIBRARY. 



Pennsylvania Sociotj' to protect children from cruelty. 1st Annual 



Report. Tlie Society. 

 Zooloi^ical Society, fitli Annual Report. The Society. 

 Pisa. Nuova Giornale Botanieo Italiano. Vol. 10, Nos. 1-4. The Editor. 

 Societa ]\Ialacolo<i;ica Italiana. BuUetino, Vol. 1, Fasc. 1-Vol. 4, Fasc. 



0. The Society. 

 Bulletino Malacoloijico Italiano. Vol. 4, No.s. 2, 3, and 4; Vol. 3, No. 



1 ; 1H71, 1H7;{, 1S74. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Societa Toscana di Scienze Naturali. Atti, III. 1 and 2. The Society. 

 Port of Spain. Scientific Association of Trinidad. Proceedings. Part II. 



The Society. 

 Regensl)urg. K. B. Botanische Gesellschaft. Flora, neue Reihe, 35 Jahrg. 

 The Society. 

 Zoologische-mineralogische Verein. Correspondenz-Blatt. 31 Jahrg. 

 The Society. 

 Reichenbacli i. B. Voirtlandische Verein fiir allgemeinc und spezielle Na- 



turkunde. iMittiicilungen, 3es II. The Society. 

 Riga. Naturforscher-Vereiu. Correspoudeuzijlatt. 22er Jahrg, The 



Society. 

 Rome. R. Accademia dei Lincei. Atti, 3e Serie, Trausuuti, Vol. 2, Fasc. 



1-7. The Society. 

 St. Gallen. Naturwissenschaflliche Gesellschaft. Bericht, 1875-76. The 



Society. 

 St. Louis. Academy of Sciences. Transactions, Vol. 3, No. 4. The Society. 

 St. Petersburg. Horti Petropolitaui. Acta, T. 3 ; T. 4, Fasc. 1, 2, and 

 Supplement; T. 5, Fasc. 1. The Director. 

 K. Akademie der Wisscuschaften. Repertorium fiir Meteorologie, Bd. 



5, H. 2; Supplementband, le Hiilfte. 

 Memoires. T. 24, No. 4-T. 25, No. 4. 

 Bulletin. T. 23, No. 3-T. 24, No. 3. The Society. 

 Physikalische Ceutral-Observatorium. Annaleu, 1870. The Observa- 

 tory. 

 Societas Entomologica, Horse. T. 12, Nos. 1-4. The Society. 

 Salem. American Association for the Advancement of Science. Proceed- 

 ings, Vol. 26. The Society. 

 Essex Institute. Bulletin, Vol. 9, No. 7- Vol. 10, No. 6. The Society. 

 Science Ne\vs. Vol. 1, Nos. 1-3. The Editor. 

 San Diego. Society of Natural History. Charter, Constitution, etc. The 



Society. 

 San Francisco. California Academy of Sciences. Proceedings, Vol. 6 ; 

 Vol. 7, No. 1. The Society. 

 University of California. Bulletin, No. 28. The University. 

 Springfield. Familiar Science and Fanciers' Journal. Jan.-Nov. 1878. 



The Editor. 

 Stettin. Eulomologische Verein. Zeitung, Jahrg. 1-13, 16, 17, 38. The 



Society. 

 Stuttgart. Neues Jahrbuch fiir Mineralogie, etc. 1877, 7 H-1878, 6 H. The 

 Editor. 

 Verein fiir vaterlandische Naturkuude in Wiirttemberg. 34er Jahrg. 

 1-3 H. The Society. 

 Sydney. Linnean Society of New South Wales. Proceedings, Vol. 1. 

 The Society. 

 Royal Society of New South Wales. .lournal and Proceedings, Vol. 

 10. Conversazione, May 16, 1877. The Society. 

 Tasmania. Royal Society. Papers and Proceedings, 1876. The Society. 

 Toronto. Canadian Journal of Science, Literature, and History. Jan. 



1878. The Editor. 

 Toulouse. Academic des Sciences, Inscriptions et Belles-Lettres. Me- 

 moires, 7e Serie, T. 8 and 9. The Society. 




ADDITIONS TO LIBRARY. 465 



Trieste. Societa Adriatica di Scienze Natnrali. Bulletin, Vol. 3, No. 



3- Vol. 4, No. 1. Tlie Society. 

 Turin. Accademia Reale delle Scienze. Annuario, 1877-78. The Society. 

 Upsal. Regia Societas Scientiarum. Nova Acta, in mem. quat. seculorum 



ab. Univ. 1877. The Society. 

 Urbana. Central Ohio Scientific Association. Proceedings, Vol. 1, Pt. 1. 



The Society. 

 Utrecht. K. Nederlandsch Meteorologische Instituut. Jaarboek, 1875. 



The Institute. 

 Vienna. Anthropologischen Gesellschaft. Mittheilungen, 7 B. No. 7-8 B. 

 No. 4. The Society. 

 K. Akademie der Wissenschaften. Mathem.-naturwissenschaftl. 

 Classe. Sitzungsberichte, 78 Bd. 1 H., le Abth.-76 Bd. 1 H., 2 Abth. 

 Denkschrift. 37 Bd. The Society. 

 K. K. Geologische Reichsanstalt. Jahrbuch, 27 B. No. 3-28 B. No. 2. 

 Verhandlungen, 1877, No. 11-1871, No. 10. The Director. 

 K. K. Zoologisch-botanische Gesellschaft. Verhandlungen, Vol. 27. 



The Society. 

 Verein zur verbreitung naturwissenschaftlicher Kenntnisse. Schriften, 



18 Bd. The Society. 

 Zoologische Institut. Arbeiten, 1 Heft. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 "Walla Walla. Association for the Advancement of Science. Articles of 



Incorporation. The Society. 

 Wiesbaden. Nassauische Verein fiir Naturkunde. J ahrbucher. Jahrg. 29 



and 30. The Society. 

 Wellington. New Zealand Institute. Proceedings, Vols. 1-8, 9, No. '2, 

 and Index. 

 Transactions, Vol. 10. The Society. 

 Worcester American Antiquarian Society. Proceedings, Nos. 70 and 71. 



The Society. 

 Wiirzburg. Botanische Institut. Arbeiten, 2 B. H. 1. The Society. 



Physikalisch-medicin. Gesellschaft. Verhandlungen, Neue Folge, 11 



Bd. 1-4 H. The Society. 

 Zoologisch-zootomischen Institut. Arbeiten, 4 Bd. 2-4 Heft. The 

 Society. 

 Yokohama. Asiatic Society of Japan. Transactions, Vol. 5, No. 1-Vol. 



6, No. 2. The Society. 

 Zurich. Naturforschende Gesellschaft. Vierteljahresschrift, 21 Jahrg. 1 

 H.-22 Jahrg. 4 H. The Society. 





INDEX TO GENERA. 



467 



INDEX TO GENERA. 



1878. 



Acamarcliis 304 



Acer 122, 267 



Achelous 320 



Acheta 314 



Acridium 314 



Actinocrinus 227, 241, 264 



Acus 301 



^cidium 40 



^tea 304 



Agamonema 171 



Agaricocrinus 239 



Aglaophenia 308 



Afaus 314 



Albunea 326 



Alee 61, 71 



Alcelapbus 61, 71 



Alligator 24 



Allorhiua 314 



Alphens 98, 298, 328 I 



Aluatta 62 ' 



Amaroecium 304 



Amathia 304 



Amblyteles 348, 355 



Amiba 99 



Amoeba 99, 158 



Ampelis 22 



Amphicyon 47 



Ampbiprora 332 



Ampbitragulus 71 ' 



Ampbiuma 28 



Ampboracrinus 265 



Anacbis 301 



Ancbistia . . , 96 



Ancbitberium 57 



Aucistroden 26 



Aiiisodactylus 314 



Anolis 24 



Anonialon 367 • 



Anomia 272 ; 



Antbopbora 187 



Antbopodimn 311 j 



Antbostoma 300 j 



Antbracotberium 61 



Antilocapra 61, 71 



Antilope 71 



Antrostomus 23 



Aplysina 163, 895 



Arabella 299 



Arauea 144 



Arauens 320 



Arbacia 306 



Arcella 172 



Arctomys 62 



Argiiia 303 



Artibeus 48 



Arvicola 49, 57 



Asclepias 298 



Aspidinm 406 



Aspidonectes 24 



Astartella 35 



Asterias 306 



Astraugia 313 



Astropecten 307 



Atcles 13, 67, 152, 160, 339, 391 



Attus 337 



Atya -91 



Atyoida 93 



Ancbenia 61 , 71 



Aulactinia 311 



Avails 152 



Babirussa 61 



Balanoglossus 300 



Balauu's 299 



Barite 99 



Barycriiius 265 



Barypbyllum 29 



Bassus 374 



Batocrinus 229 



Biflustra 305 



Blatta 315. 383 



Bombus 182 



Bos 51, 61, 7hf 75 



Bracbypbylla 48 



Bugula 304 




4C8 



INDEX TO GENERA. 



Calaniairrostis 337 



Calaniorhyiiclius 28.") 



Calai)pa 21)8, 324 



Calliactis 311 



Callianassa 298, 327 



Callichirus 327 



Callincctes 320 



Calluna 347 



Caloptcnus 314 



Calycanlhus 38 



Cain('lo|)aidali9 CI 



Camelus 61, 71 



Campanularia 307 



Canipophilus 22 



Cani]K)iioUis 19 



Canipnplcx 369 



Caiioor 317 



CanUion 314 



Capra 61 



Carciuus 321 



Cariacus 61 



Castor 62 



Caudisona 26 



Cehus 13, 152, 161, 388 



Cellepoia 305 



Ceiastoma 396 



Cercolcptos 47 



Cercopithccus 13, 160, 388 



Cerebratulus 300 



Ceieiis 333 



Ceiianthus 312 



Cerithiopsis 301 



Cervulus 61 



Cervus 51,61, 71 



Chalcophora 314 



Chaliiia 312 



Chaos 99 



Cliauliognatlius 314 



Chelydra 24 



Chelymorpba 314 



Chicoreus 397 



Chioue 303 



Chiroderraa 48 



Choeropsis 61 



Chrvsotliiix 152 



Ciciiidcla 313 



Cimcx 315 



Cistenides 300 



Cistudo 24 1 



Cladactis 312 



Clepsine 384 | 



Clibanarius 326 f 



Clioua 312' 



Clytus 314 j 



Cnemidophorus 25 



Coali 150 



Coccinella 314 



Coccygus 23 



Coelogenys 62, 64 



Colfocentrus 376 



Colias 315 



Collops 314 



Colobus 391 



Coluljor 27 



Columbclla 301 



ConnocliaJtcs 61 



Conocephalus 314 



Correus 315 



Corundum 159, 223 



Coryiu'tis 314 



Corypliodon 73 



Crangon 89, 298, 327 



Crassatella 303 



Cropidula 302 ' 



Crisia 304 



Crotalus 26 



Cryptus 359 



Cryptopodia 317 



Ctenistes 374 



Cupularia 305 



Cyatbocrinus 256 



Cyclocephala 314 



Cyclophis 27 



Cygnus 23 



Cynoccphalus 13, 39, 152, 888 



Cyuomys 63 



Cyuopitliecus 46, 50, 62 



Cynthia 304 



Cyph(jderia 171 



Cypriea 399 



Dasvprocta 02, 71 



Delphinus 22, 67 



Desmodus 48 



Dicnelus 313 



Dicotyles 61, 64, 151 



Didelphys 48 



Difflugui 171 



Dinoceras 77 



Diuotherium 58, 76 



Dion oea 334 



Diopatra 299 



Diphasia 308 



Diphylla 48 



Discopora 305 



Distomum 383 



Dolabella 395 



Douax 302, 382 



Dorycrinus 264 



Dromicus 27 



Drosera 334 



Dysidea 313 



Echthrus 381 



Elapliindion 314 



Elephas 47,51, 77 



Eutelodon 73 



Epeira 124, 133 




INDEX TO GENERA. 



469 



Ephialtes 377 



Epilacna 314 



Equus 61, 71, 74 



Eretmocrinus 235 



Erromenus 373 



Euceramus 298, 325 



Eiicladocrinus 243 



Eudeudrium 309 



Eua;l3'pha 171 



Eiiiima 301 



Eumeces 25 



Enpagurus 298, 32G 



Euphorbia 40 



Euryomia 314 



Eurytium 319 



Exetastes 370 



Exochilum 366 



Exochus 374 



Fiber 49, 57, 62, 63 



Filaria 171 



Forficula 315 



Forbesiocriuus 252 



Fraxinus 15 



Fulignla 23 



Gammarus 298 



Gazella 61, 71 



Gebia 326 



Gelasimus 321 



Geomys 57, 62, 66 



Gilbertsocrinus 261 



Glycimeris 303 



Glyptodon 49 



Goniasteroidocriuus 261 



Gordius 383 



Gorilla : 62 



Granatocrinus 228 



Grapsus 323 



Grotea 370 



Guaia 325 



Halmatnrus 62 



Halocauipa 311 



Halopsyche 329 



Hapale 152, 388 



Harpalus 313 



Hedj'sarum 334 



Helladotlierium 61 



Hepatica 39 



Hepatus 324 



Heterocrypta 297, 317 



Heterodou 27 



Heteropoda 144 



Heulaudite 84 



Hippa 326, 336 



Hippodamia 314 



Hippolysinata 89 



Hippolyte 89 



Hippopotamus 56, 61, 99 



Hippotlioa 305 



Hirciiia 313 



Homarus 327 



Hoplismeuus 348, 354 



Hydra 383 



Hydractinia 309 



Hydrochoerus 51, 60, 62 



HVdroides 300 



Hyla 28 



Hylobates 13, 339 



Hylotomus 22 



Hylotrupes 314 



Hyomoschus 71 



Hyperina 276 



Hj'psiprymnus 63 



Hyrax 71 



Hystrix 63 



Ichueiunon 348 



IcUthyocrinus 253 



Idotea 299 



Ilyanthus 313 



ludris 153 



Ixodes 315 



Juniperus 267 



Lafoea 308 



Lagostomus 63 



Lagyuis 173 



Lampronota 377 



Lepas 299 



Leidyite 84 



Lepidesthes 33 



Lepidops 298, 326 



Lepidurus 165 



Lepralia 305 



Leptochoerus 73 



Leptocotis 283 



Leptogorgia 310 



Leptoraeryx 71 



Leptopodia 298, 316 



Leptosynapta 306 



Leptura 314 



Lepus 62, 63 



Libinia 316 



Ligyrus 314 



Limulus 94 



Liuiueria 369 



Liuoceras 365 



Linyphia 129 



Lithadia 298, 325 



Lithobius 315 



Littorina ^03 



Loligo 301 



Loxodoii 47, 52 




470 



INDEX TO GENERA. 



Lucina 303 



Luiilia '.Wl 



Liipii ;{!!» 



Lycosa •i'.il 



Macacus 13, ir)2, 161, 



Maoroljiancliiiun 



]Macrogl()ssum 



Macron 



ISIacropus 



Mactra 



JMalloilon 



Mainmillaria 



IVIaiiati'c 



^Fiinatus 



Mantis 



Margclis 



Marginella 



Mastodon 51 



Mi'gacilissa 



Mi-gathcrium 50, 71, 



Megistociinus 



Mclanerpes 



Melissodes 



Mellita 



Membracis 



Membranipora 



Meniosa 



Menippe " 



Menopon ... 



Mephitis 



Mcrgnlus 



Mergus 



Mesocliorus 



Mesoleius 



Mcsolcptus 



Mesosteuus 



Meta 



Metopius 



Metoporhapis 



Microcioua 



Mimulus 



Mitchella 



Mitra 301, 



Modiola 



Modiolaria 



Moira. 



Molgula 



Monohammus .• 



Moschus 



Murex 



Mnricidea 



Mus 51 



Musca 



Mya 



Myrmecophaga 



388 



•JO 



10 



397 



222 



332 



314 



333 



62 



47 



314 



3i9 



301 



, 77 



221 



, 79 



205 



m 



192 



306 



315 



304 



334 



318 



100 



22 



23 



23 



369 



371 



370 



365 



Nf'otonm 49. 62 



Ncptiinus 319 



Xcnis 299 



Nonionina 336 



Nototlicriuni 71 



Nototracliys 366 



Ocincbra 

 Oculina. . 

 Ocyiwt. 



Ocypoda 322, 



Ocdcmia 



Oodi])()da 



Oligosonia 



Olios 



Ollacrinus 248, 



OmniasI replies 



Oncliidella 



Oncliis 



Onycliociinus 



Opliibolus 



Opliion 



Ophiophragmus 



< )pliiot liiix 



Ophiura 



Opsomala 



Opuntia 



Orchelinuun 



Oreodou 61 



Ostrea 



Ovis 61 



Oxacis 



Oxya 



Oxycephalus 



132 

 376 

 316 

 312 

 334 

 383 

 898 

 303 

 303 

 306 

 303 

 314 



71 

 395 

 395 

 , 62 

 315 

 303 



79 



Nacerdes 314 



Nautilus 36 



Palpemon 



PahTcmonetes ....'. 97, 298, 



Pala'osyops 



Pampliagus 



Pandalus 



Panopeus 



Papilio 



Papirius 



Paractis 



Parauthea 



Parypha 



Passal us 



Pelagia 



Pelecanus 



Pelia 298, 



Peneus 98, 298, 



Pcutamera 



Perouia 



Persei)hone 



Petrogale 



PhachoTUS 



Phacochcerus 



Phalaugista 62 



Phaueioptera 



396 

 312 

 145 

 337 



23 

 314 



25 

 145 

 261 

 301 

 399 

 401 

 258 



26 

 366 

 307 

 307 

 307 

 315 

 333 

 314 

 ,73 

 273 

 . 71 

 314 

 314 

 278 



96 



330 



78 



171 



94 



318 



315 



335 



311 



313 



309 



314 



307 



100 



316 



330 



305 



401 



324 



63 



61 



57 



,71 



314 




INDEX TO GENERA. 



471 



Phascolomj-s 49, 71 



Physadeuou 357 



Physalia 276, 309 



Phytoclietns 379 



Pilumiius 819 



Pimpla 377 



Pinna 303 



Pinnixa 298, 323 



Pinnotheres 298, 323 



Pisa 316 



Platycarcinus 317 



Platycrinns 30, 227, 243, 249 



Platylabus 348, 3o6 



Platyouiclms 321, 337 



Plethoden 28 



Pliolophus 73 



Poemeria 380 



Po^onomyrmex 119 



Poiistes 315 



Polyxenes 223 



Pontouia 94 



Porcellana 298, 302, 325 



Porpita 276, 810 



Portulaca 40, 333 



Potamochoerus 51 



Poteriociiniis 259 



Prionus 814 



Pristomerus 370 



Propithecus 152 



Protens 99 



Protococcus 331 



Pseudocarcinus 318 



Pteronotus 396 



Ptilodyctia 35 



Pygoderma 48 



Rana 28 



Randite 408 



Rangifer 61 



Rauilia 325 



Remora 340 



Renilla 310 



Rhabdosoma 277, 286 



Rhinoceros 61 



Rhodoerinus 262 



Rhynchobolus 300 



Richardia 40 



Rosmarus 47 



Sabella 300 



Sabellaria 300 



Sagartia 311 



Salvia 10 



Sarotes 136, 144 



Saxicava 303 



Scalaria 802 



Scaphiocrinus 31 



Scaphiopus 28 



Scinropterus 22 



Scinrus 51, 62 



Semnopithecus 39 



Serpentine 402 



Serpula 37 



Sertularia 308 



Sesarma 323 



Sic\'onia 97 



Sigmodon , . 62 



Siren 28 



Sirenia 47 



Sivatherium 01, 71, 74 



Smynthurus 335 



Spermophilus 62 



Spliseroma 299 



Sphynx 315 



Spilosoma 315 



Spongelia 318 



Spongia 313 



Sqiiilla 298 



Staffclite lo6 



Slapella 292 



Staphyhnus 314 



Steatite 402 



Steganocrinus 243 



Stegodou 58 



Stenobothrus 314 



Steiracraugon 89 



Stereognathus 49 



Stibianite 154 



Strombus 801 



Strotocriuus 233 



Sturnira 48 



Styliola 302 



Suina 51 



Sus 61 



Tabanus 315 



Taniia 405 . 



Talinnm 338 



Talorchestia 298 



Tamias 22, 62 



Tapirus 61, 71 



Taxocriuus 252 



Tecoma 334 



Telesto 311 



Teredo 802 



Tertrix 315 



Tetracha 318 



Tetralonia 220 



Tetralophodou 47, 58, 67 



Tetramorium 16, 19 



Tetrapedia 182 



Tetrarhynchws 840 



Thalassochelys 24 



Tliecanicpba ^ 158 



Thoniisus 144 



Tiior 94 




472 



INDEX TO GENERA. 



Thvono aOf) 



Tliyon.llii HOC 



Tiiiiinmis ;j;W 



'ritimidcum 311 



Titanotheriuin Gl, 71, 78 



Tottonia 303 



Toxopneustes 300 



Tozeuma liO, 298, 328 



Tra^ful us 71 



Tiiclioilina 383 



Trilophodou 47, 08, 67, 71 



Trinciiia 171 



Tro.i,dody tes 385 



Trigona 181 



Trogus 348, 350 



Trox 314 



Tryphou 372 



Unio 272 



Urocaris 330 



Ursus 21 



Utcthcisa 31. 5 



Utriculus 302 



Valsa 86 



Vck'lla 276, 310 



Vcrongia 164 



Vesiculaiia 304 



Vespa 315 



Vespertilio 22 



Virbius 298, 329 



Volva 303 



Volvox 99 



Xiphidium 314 



Xorides 380 



Xylonomus 380 



Zeacrinus 265 



Zcuglodou 48 



Zilla 132 



Zirpha?a 302 



Zoisite 84 




OENEKAL INDEX. 



473 



GENERAL INDEX. 



Adams, Henry, Announcement of 

 death of, ICO. i 



Additions to the Library, 444. 



Allen. H., Distinctive Characters of 

 Teeth, 39. 



1 



Barker, G. T., Announcement of 

 deatli of. 39. 



Binncy, M'm. G., On the Land Shells 

 of the Mexican Island of Guada- 

 loupe, collected by Dr. E. Palmer, 

 407. ; 



Cassin, Chas. L., M.D., Announce- 1 

 nient of death of, 38. i 



Chapman, H. C, On the Structure i 

 of the Gorilla, 341, 385. 



Coleman, G. D., Announcement of 

 death of, 331. 



Cou'^s, Elliott, and H. C. Yarrow, 

 Notes on the Natural History of 

 Fort Macon, N. C, and Vicinity 

 (No. 4), 9, 21 ; (No. 5), 291, 297". 



Cresson, E. T., Descriptions of New 

 Species of American Bees, 165, 181; 

 Descriptions of Ichueumonidfe 

 from the Pacific Slope of the 

 United States and British North 

 America, 340, 348. 



Dowler, Bennet, Announcement of 

 death of, 384. 



Elections, 1878, 442. 



Eunis, J., The Electric Constitution 

 of the Solar System, 99, 102; Ele- 

 ments of the Sidereal System, 159. 

 174. 



Frazer, R., Announcement of death 

 of, 165. 



Gabb, Wra. M., Descriptions of New 

 Species of Fossils from the Pliocene 

 Clay Beds between Limon and 

 31 



Moen, Costa Rica, together with 

 Notes on previously known species 

 from there and elsewhere in the 

 Caribbean Area, 270, 407; Descrip- 

 tions of Caribbean Miocene Fossils, 

 270, 407. 



Geddings, Eli, Announcement of 

 death of, 407. 



Goldsmith, E., On the Alkali of the 

 Plains in Bridger Valley, Wyom- 

 ing Territory, 42 ; StaflFellite from 

 Pike's Peak, Cal., 100, 156; Stibi- 

 anite, a New Mineral, 100, 154 ; On 

 a Singular Tartar on the Teeth of 

 a Sheep, 268. 



Green, Wm. H , and A. J. Parker, 

 Note on Hyraceum, 384. 



Griffith, Crozer, Aspidium aculeatum 

 in Pennsylvania, 406. 



Ilelfenstein, J. S., Announcement of 

 death of, 341. 



Henry, Jos., Announcement of death 

 of, 171. 



Horn, Geo. H , Report of Corre- 

 sponding Secretary', 421. 



Hunt, J. Gibbons, Sensitive Origans, 

 in Stapelia, 292. 



Hvatt, On a new Species of Sponge, 

 148, 163. 



Index to Genera, 467. 



Kenderdine, R. S., Report of Bio- 

 logical and Microscopical Section, 

 430. 



Kingsley, J. S., Notes on North 

 American Caridea in the Museum 

 of the Peabody Academy of Sci- 

 ences at Salem, Mass., 39, 89. 



Kirtland, J. P., Announcement of 

 death of, 9. 



Koenig, Geo. A., On tiic Association 

 ofGrossularite, Zoisitc,HeulaMdite, 

 and Leidyite, a new Species. 15, 




47 



OKNKUAI, INDEX. 



HI ; Black Brtiilc from Doihysliirc, 

 !)!) ; ]\I()iinlaiii Soap of ("nlitoriiia, 

 405; Mincialoicieal Nolcs: Ifaiiditc, 

 408. 



Leidy, Jos., On ("itrinc or Yellow 

 Quartz, 40; A IIipp()|)otaiinis Tusk, 

 99; On Ama'ha, 99; A Louse of 

 the Pelican, 100; On Parasilic 

 Worms in the Shad, 171 ; Species 

 of Euiilypha, Tiinema, Pampha- 

 gus, and C'yphoderia, with S3'n- 

 onynia and Desciijjtions of Iscw 

 Forms, 171 ; Foraminifeia of the 

 Coast of New Jersey, 292 ; On the 

 Black ]Mildew of Walls, ;J31 ; Re- 

 marks on Mactru, 332; Foraminif- 

 erous Shells of our Coast, 33G ; On 

 Crustaceans at Cape May, N. J., 

 336 ; Note on a Tetrarhynchus, 

 340 ; On Donax fossor, 382 ; Notices 

 of Gordius in the Cockroach and 

 Leech, 383 ; On Taenia mcdio- 

 cancllata, 405 ; Report of Curators,- 

 424. 



Lewis, Jas., On Unio subrostrata, 

 270, 273. 



Lyon, V. W., Description of three 

 new Species of Calceolrc. from the 

 Upper Silurian Rocksof Kentucky, 

 347. 



McCook, Rev. H. C, The Mode of 

 Recognition among Ants, 15; Dis- 

 tribution of Spiders bv the Trade 

 Winds. 41, 13G; The Basilica Spi- 

 der (Epeira basilica), 41, 124; 

 Toilet Habit of Ants, 119 ; Supple- 

 mentary Note on the Aeronautic 

 Flight hf Spiders, 337. 



^IcQuillen, J. H., Recovery of all the 

 Faculties in a Pigeon from which 

 the Cerebral Hemispheres had been 

 removed, 99, 342. 



Maisonneuve, M. C. Durieu de, An- 

 nouncement of death of, 158. 



Martindale, I. C, Foliaceous Sepals 

 in Hepatica, 39. 



Mazyck, Wm. G., and A. W. Vogdes, 

 Description of a New Fossil from 

 the Cretaceous of Charleston, S. 

 C, 270, 272. 



Median, Thos., Boring of Corollas 

 from the outside by Hone}^-Bees, 

 10; Habits and Intelligence of 

 Vespa macuhita, 15 ; Note on Caly- 

 canthus Floridus, 38 ; Morphologi- 

 cal Changes in Inflorescence, 40 ; 

 Expansive Force of Root Growth, 



101 ; Notes on Acer rubrum, 123; 

 The Law Governing Sex. 207 ; Irri- 

 table or Sensitive Stamens, 333 ; 

 Callnna vulgaris, 347 ; Dimorpliism 

 in ]\Iilcliella rei)ens, 3h;j ; Re])o:t of 

 Botanical Section, 43(J. 



Miller, Jos. W., Announcement of 

 death of, 270. 



Morch, O. A. L., Announcement of 

 death of, 41. 



Moore, Bloomfield II., Announce- 

 nu'ut of death of, 271. 



Murrav, Andrew, Announcement of 

 dealii of, 38. 



Nees von Esenbeck, C, Announce- 

 ment of death of, 9. 



Nolan, Edw. J.. Report of Recording 

 Secretary, 420 ; Report of Libra- 

 rian, 422. 



Packard, A. S., On Lepidurus Cou- 

 esii, 105. 



Parker, A. J., Cere])ral Convolutions 

 of the Negro Brain. 11 ; Vegetative 

 Repetition of Cerebral Fissures, 

 148; The Bridging Convolutions 

 in the Primates, 159; Knee-joint 

 of the Kangaroo, 220; Simian 

 Characters in Negro Brains, 339. 



Pfeiffer, L., Announcement of death 

 of, 9. 



Pickering, Chas., Notice of, 166. 



Potts, E., Sensitive Organs in Ascle- 

 pias, 293. 



Powers, Thos. H., Announcement 

 of death of, 384. 



Rand, T. D., On a Belt of Serpentine 

 and Steatite in Radnor Township, 

 Del. Co., 347, 402 ; Report of Mine- 

 ralogical Section, 441. 



Redfield, J. H., Report of Conserva- 

 tor of Botanical Section, 437. 



Reeves, S. J., Announcement of 

 death of, 407. 



Remington, T. P., Announcement of 

 death of, 89. 



Report of Curators, 424. 



Report of Librariau, 422. 



Report of President, 410. 



Report of Recording Secretary, 420. 



Report of Biological and Microscopi- 

 cal Section. 430. 



Report of Botanical Section, 436. 



Report of the Conchological Section, 

 431. 



Report of the Entomological Section, 

 434. 




GENERAL INDEX. 



475 



Report of Mi ueralogical Section, 441. 



Retzius, Andreas, Announcement of 

 death of, 41. 



Ridings, J. H., Report of the Ento- 

 mological Section, 434. 



Roberts, S. R., Report of the Con- 

 chological Section, 431. 



Ruschenberger, W. S. W., Notice of 

 the late Dr. Pickering, 166 ; Report 

 of President, 410. 



Ryder, J. A., On the Mechanical 

 Genesis of Tooth Forms, 9, 45 ; On 

 Polyxenes fasciculatus, 233 ; De- 

 scription of a supposed new Species 

 of Smynthurus, 332, 335 ; Morpho- 

 logy of the Limbs of Amphiuma, 

 and the probable synonymy of the 

 Species, 407. 



Stal, Carl, Announcement of death 

 of, 291. 



Stearns, R. E. C, Description of a 

 New Species of Dolabella, from the 

 Gulf of California, with remarks 

 on other rare or little known 

 species from the same locality, 

 3S2, 895. 



Stevenson, W. C, Jr., Additions to 



Mr. Cooke's paper on the Valsei of 



the United States, 39, 86. 

 Stewardson, Thos., Announcement 



of death of, 270. 

 Streets, T. H., Pelagic Amphipoda, 



270, 276. 



Tatnall, Edw., Jr., Announcement 

 of death of, 15. 



"VYachsmuth, Chas., and Frank 

 Springer, Transition forms in Cri- 

 noids, and description of five new 

 species, 148, 224. 



Welsh, Wra., Announcement of 

 death of, 39. 



White, C. A., Description of New 

 Species of Invertebrate Fossils from 

 the Carboniferous and Upper Silu- 

 rian Rocks of Illinois and Indiana, 

 9, 29. 



Wilicox, Jos., Prehistoric Remains, 

 158 ; Note on Corundum, 159 ; Co- 

 rundum in North Carolina, 223. 




r\ 










^r^-"'-^ 



=-T. JM 25197! 



QH Academy of natural sciences 



1 of Philadelphia 

 A 2 Proceedings 



V.30 



& Medical 

 Scruii* 



PLEASE DO NOT REMOVE 

 CARDS OR SLIPS FROM THIS POCKET 



UNIVERSITY OF TORONTO LIBRi^RY 



I 



STORAGE 





