
Digitized by tine Internet Arciiive 



in 2009 witii funding from 



Ontario Council of University Libraries 



http://www.archive.org/details/proceedingsofaca43acaduoft 








-7 5^7 



® 




c/) 




^* 







PROCEEDINGS 



ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES 



PHILADELPHIA. 



1891. 



January 1. 



Mr. Charles Morris in the chair. 



Thirty-three persons present. 



A paper entitled " Basanite from Crawford Co., Ind.," by Edward; 

 Goldsmith was presented for publication. 



The death of John B. Trevor, a member, December 20, 1890, 

 was announced. 



The Council reported the appointment of the following Standing 

 Committees to serve during the current year : — 



On Library. — Joseph Leidy, W. S. "W. Ruschenberger, Gavin 

 AV. Hart, Charles P. Perot and J. Bernard Brinton. 



On Publications. — Joseph Leidy, Angelo Heilprin, Thomas 

 Meehan, Edward J. Nolan and John H. Redfield. 



On Instruction anb Lectures. — Isaac C. ]\Iartindale, Harold 

 Wingate, George A. Rex, Charles Morris and J. Bernard Brinton. 

 2 




10 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



0)1 Tivo Xew and Undescribed Methods of Contractility Mani- 

 fested by Filaments of ProtojAasm. — Prof. J. A. Ryder presented 

 the results of his recent investigations of the peculiar phenomena 

 of contractility presented by the stalk of Vorticella and of the body 

 of Trypanosoma balbiani. The speaker pointed out that all the ac- 

 counts of the mode of contraction of the stalk of Vorticella hitherto 

 offered were either inadequate to account for the facts or else wholly 

 inaccurate. No figures yet published give a correct picture of the 

 relations of the muscular filament in a spiral, and the outer tubular 

 sheath which invests that muscular filament. Neither has there 

 been any correct account given of the way in which the spiral con- 

 dition of the stalk of Vorticella is generated as a consequence of 

 the contraction of the muscular filament. 



The true state of affiiirs is as follows: — The muscular filament of 

 Vorticella passes downward through its sheath in a spiral manner 

 and is only in contact along a spiral line with the inside of the 

 transparent investing sheath. The filament thus makes eight or 

 nine complete turns within its sheath which is itself not in contact 

 with the spiral muscular filament except along the spiral line al- 

 ready mentioned. It follows from this, that if this spiral line of 

 contact is in turn traced upon the muscular filament, it will be found 

 to describe a spiral around the latter. 



In a condition of contraction it will be found that the inner faces 

 of the spirally coiled muscular filament are in a state of greater 

 compression than the outer ones and that therefore the inner side of 

 the muscuhir filament has suffered a greater contraction of its sub- 

 stance than the outer. This face of the filament again is found to 

 correspond to the face which is in spiral contact with the sheath in 

 the uncontracted condition. But to fully satisfy the mechanical 

 conditions of the problem, it is necessary to assume that the con- 

 tractile filament of Vorticella is composed, as are ordinary striated 

 muscular fibers in higher forms, of alternating and superposed disks 

 of singly and doubly refractive plasma, or at least of a series of disks 

 Avhose most contractile margins are permanently arranged in con- 

 formity with the spiral line which can be traced along the surface 

 of the filament where it is in contact with the investing sheath. In 

 this way alone is it possible to account for the way in which the 

 spiral coil in the contractile stalk of Vorticella is generated. In 

 this wav only can it be supposed that a muscular fibre may contract 

 at a uniform rate so as to bend continuously and constantly in two 

 directions so as to generate a spiral in accordance with the well- 

 known laws which preside over the generation of uniformly coiled 

 spirals in space. After this conclusion had been deduced from an 

 attempt at a diagrammatic construction of the spiral stalk and an- 

 alysis of its components, observation of mounted preparations of 

 Carchesium jiolypimim showed that the coiled ]jarts of the muscular 

 filament are actually composed of discoidal elements such as are 

 met with in ordinary muscular fibre altei-nating apparently as sin- 




1891.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 11 



gly and doubly refractive elements. Further study disclosed the 

 remarkable fact that the disks of anisotropic matter are in con- 

 tact along the concave or inner side of tiie coils and not in contact 

 on the outer or convex sides or faces of the coils, where a wedge- 

 shaped mass of isotropic material seems to be interposed between 

 the outer edge of the successive anisotropic disks. This is, in fact, 

 the condition which should have existed, per hypothesis. 



The torsion into a spiral of the muscular stalk of Vorticella may 

 have been due to the constant torsional strain of the crown of cilia 

 vibrating constantly in a cyclical manner in one direction setting 

 up a vortex movement, such a vortex tending constantly to main- 

 tain the toi'sional strain and thus add the additional spirals or twists 

 to the new parts of the muscular stalk as the latter is lengthened by 

 gi'owth next to the animalcules' body. This hypothesis of torsion 

 the speaker had not yet verified, but he had no doubt that the facts 

 when ascertained would countenance it. 



The development of a progressive spiral in either direction may 

 be caused by rotating the wave of contraction around the center of 

 each one of the successive disks of contractile matter, here hypothe- 

 tically assumed and actually found to exist in some forms of Vorti- 

 cella. This is of great importance in acquiring a comprehension of 

 the generation of the spiral in Trypanosoma balbiani, the parasite of 

 the alimentary canal of the oyster, as well as in the case of many 

 spiral Schizomycetes and long tlagella, many of which have spiral 

 rather than a simple undulatory movement. If the contraction 

 wave for each successive disk is a little behind or a little ahead of 

 its next neighbor, or, what amounts to the same thing, if the revo- 

 lution of these contraction waves follows a spiral line turning to the 

 right or left, then will the spiral be generated in a sinistral or dex- 

 tral manner so as to determine the direction of movement either for- 

 wards or backwards or alternately as happens in Trypa)iosoma bal- 

 biani, in which the revolutions of the organism so caused, occur 

 with the greatest velocity. In this connection it is interesting to 

 mention the extraordinary behavior of a string of gyrostats when 

 set rotating in a connected series suspended one to the other. If 

 they then be disturbed there will be generated a curious progressive 

 cork-screw motion which will travel along the series, as pointed out 

 by Sir William Thomson, or, as suggested to the speaker by his 

 colleague. Prof. G. F. Barker, the analogies with some of the phe- 

 nomena of the polarization of light are also interesting. 



In conclusion, the speaker insisted that the type of muscular con- 

 tractility presented by the muscular filament of Vorticella had no 

 analogue amongst the muscular elements of higher animals, and it, 

 therefore, constituted a type by itself, where unequally contracting 

 disks were fixed in a spiral order. 



The second form was typified by the filamentous Trypanosoma 

 balbiani in which there is a rapid reversal of the spiral in a dextral 




12 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



or a sinistral direction and in which the contractile disks (here hy- 

 pothetical) are not fixed but in which waves of contraction may be 

 supposed to revolve, as described above, either in a sinistral or dex- 

 tral direction, in order to continuously maintain the spiral condition, 

 and also at the same time cause the spiral to apparently travel 

 from one end of a filamentous organism or flagellum to the other. 

 Two very distinct and constant types of filamentous muscular or 

 plasmic contractility the speaker believed might be thus character- 

 ized with Vorticella and Trypanosoma as their types, in addition to 

 the single ordinary form presented by the usual types of smooth and 

 transversely striated muscular fibres. 



The following was ordered to be printed : — 




1891.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 13 



RESEARCHES UPON RESPIRATION. 

 BY HENRY C. CHAPMAN, M. D. AND ALBERT P. BRUBAKER, M. D. 



No. 1. 



Ox THE Consumption of Oxygen and the Production of 

 Carbon Dioxide in Animals. 



Of all subjects of biological enquiry there is none, perliaps, that 

 has attracted more attention or exceeds in importance that of the 

 accurate determination of the consumption of oxygen and production 

 of carbon dioxide and water in man and animals. Not only is the 

 proper ventilation of our dwellings, lecture rooms, theatres, halls of 

 justice, based upon such knowledge but all estimates as to the 

 amount of radiant energy set free through the combustion of food, 

 as determined by calorimetrical experiments, are dependent upon the 

 same. Passing over the early observations of Boyle, Hales, Cigna, 

 Black and Priestley which showed that the air becomes so materi- 

 ally modified by animals breathing it as to soon render it irrespira- 

 ble unless renewed, it may be said that Lavoisier, by his classical re- 

 searches, first established (1785) the modern theory of respiration 

 and calorification, namely, that the carbon dioxide and water pro- 

 duced during respiration and the heat thereby set free are due to the 

 oxidation of the carbon and hydrogen of the food. While subse- 

 quent investigations, such as those of Allen and Pepys, Milne Ed- 

 wards, Despretz, Dulong, Valentin and Brunner, Boussingault and 

 Barral, confirmed in the main the profound views announced by 

 Lavoisier, nevertheless the diflerences in the results obtained were 

 such as to induce Regnault and Reiset^ to undertake an extended 

 series of researches upon the respiration of different animals, more 

 particularly with the view of determining the amount of oxygen con- 

 sumed and carbon dioxide produced. The results of this elaborate 

 investigation, it may be added, have never, in the main, been 

 questioned. Inasmuch, however, as the water exhaled by an animal 

 is not determined by the Regnault-Reiset apparatus, and in so far 

 as known to the authors they are the only experimenters who have 

 ever had the opportunity of comparing the amount of oxygen con- 



1 Recherches Chimiques sur la Respiration des animaux des diverscs classes. 

 Par MM. V. Regnault et J. Reiset, Annales de Chimie et de Physique, 3me Ser., 

 tome XXVI, 1849. 




14 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



sumed as so determined directly, with the amount absorbed as deter- 

 mined indirectly from the carbon dioxide and water produced, as 

 obtained by means of a Voit respiration apparatus, it does not appear 

 superfluous to submit the results of experimenting with the two 

 kinds of respiration apparatus.^ 



Description of Apparatus. 



• The Regnault-Reiset respiration apparatus in the fulfilment of 

 the physical and chemical requirements incidental to the construc- 

 tion of such apparatus, remains to this day unsurpassed. It consists 

 essentially of the following three parts : 



A central glass bell-jar or chamber for the reception of the ani- 

 mal, communicates on the one side with two glass pipettes contain- 

 ing an alkaline solution for the absorption of the carbon dioxide 

 produced by the animal, and on the other side with a glass pipette 

 filled with oxygen to replace that absorbed by the animal in the 

 bell-jar. 



The central glass bell-jar or chamber A, PI. I, tubulated above 

 and having a capacity of about 47.6 litres,^ is cemented through its 

 lower open portion into the inner of two grooves with which the 

 iron-plate upon which it rests is provided. The metal plate itself 

 presents a central opening sufficiently large for the introduction of 

 the animal into the chamber and is hermetically closed (the 

 animal having been introduced) by means of a circular-metal lid, 

 the latter being tightly screwed up to the under surface of the 

 plate by means of bolts. The inner circular portion of the metal 

 plate and upper surface of the metal lid closing the inferior opening 

 of the central bell-jar are painted with red lead so as to avoid any ab- 

 sorption of oxygen through oxidation of the metal. In order that 

 the animal should not stand directly on the circular metal disk clos- 

 ing the inferior opening of the central bell-jar (which would cool it 

 too much) a movable bottom consisting of a circular wooden disk 

 pierced with holes upon which the animal is placed is passed up 



1 The results obtained by Voit's respiration apparrtus will be presented in a 

 subsequent communication. 



2 The absolute capacity of the jar or that of the tubes connecting it with the 

 pipettes need not be determined since the investigation, is based upon a 

 comparison of the composition of a given amount of the air within the jar at the 

 beginning and at the end of the experiment and any extra amount of air within the 

 jar as well as that in the connecting tubes can be neglected, as they are on both 

 sides of the equation. 




1891.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 15 



through the inferior opening of the bell-jar. This can be easily- 

 done as the wooden disk is somewhat smaller than the inferior 

 opening of the jar. The circular wooden disk with the animal 

 placed upon it, after being introduced through the inferior opening 

 of the chamber is, slightly rotated and then lowered and comes to rest 

 upon three pivots projecting inwardly over which the disk glides, 

 it being sufficiently notched upon its sides for that purpose. If it be 

 desired to preserve the urine and feces this can be accomplished by 

 placing a circular metal pan within the space between the under 

 surface of the wooden disk and upper surface of the iron lid clos- 

 ing the inferior opening of the jar into which space the excreta 

 would otherwise fall. The central glass bell-jar or chamber, A PI. I, 

 with a thermometer suspended within it and containing the ani- 

 mal resting upon the wooden disk, the inferior opening of the 

 jar being closed by the iron lid, is surrounded by Avater, the 

 latter being held by four rectangular glass plates fitting into the 

 outer of the two grooves with which the iron plate is provided. 

 As it is essential that the temperature of the central bell-jar contain- 

 ing the animal should be maintained as constant as possible, that 

 of the water surrounding it must be maintained equally so. 



Through the upper superior portion of the central bell-jai", A PI. 

 I, pass four tubes L M N O. Through the tube L the jar commun- 

 icates directly with the flask P containing a solution of soda or pot- 

 ash and indirectly with the pipette F containing the oxygen to be 

 respired. By means of the tube M and the small mercurial manome- 

 ter connected with it the pressure of the gas within the jar A can be 

 determined from moment to moment. Through the two connecting 

 tubes N O thejar A communicates with the two pipettes R S con- 

 taining the alkaline solution for the absorption of the carbon diox- 

 ide. The accessory tube T given off from the main tube O and 

 leading to the large mercurial manometer enables us, as we shall see 

 presently, to draw out of the jar A a sample of gas for analysis. 

 The iron plate with the bell-jar A is firmly supported by a heavy 

 frame-work resting upon the floor. The two glass pipettes, PI. 

 I, R S, serving for the absorption of the carbon dioxide, connected 

 through their lower extremities by an india-rubber tube and having 

 a capacity of about three litres, are filled with a solution of caustic 

 soda or potash whose weight and composition have been previously 

 determined. The two glass pipettes R S are firmly attached to two 

 metal supports. The supports are suspended by chains from the 




PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



beam Y and with the movement of the latter alternately ascends and 

 descends uniformly in a vertical manner the supports moving in a 

 frame. The beam V is moved by the eccentric X which in turn is 

 moved by the rotation of a number of interlocking toothed wheels W 

 the movement of the latter being due to the fallof 150 kilogrammes, 

 through 10 metres and regulated by a fan. The relations of the 

 wheels, weight, etc. are such as to necessitate the winding up of the 

 weight once only in fifteen hours. The vertical movement of the 

 pipettes just described is such that as the pipette R, for example, 

 ascends, the solution of soda within it passes into the pipette S which 

 descends; the air in the latter freed of its carbon dioxide passing 

 into the jar A while the air of A loaded with carbon dioxide passes 

 into the pipette R. On the other hand, as the pipette S ascends and 

 R descends, the solution of soda passing from S to R, the air of the 

 pipette R, freed of its carbon-dioxide, passes back to the jar A and 

 the air of the latter, loaded with carbon dioxide, passes into the 

 pipette S. In order that the absorption of the carbon dioxide by 

 the soda be as thorough has possible a number of glass tubes, open at 

 both ends, are placed within the pipettes, the walls of these tubes 

 remaining moistened with soda when the pipettes have emptied 

 themselves of the alkaline solution. They present consequently a 

 large absorbing surface. It will be observed that as the pipette S 

 takes air from the upper portion of the jar A and the pipette R 

 from the lower portion, the play of the pipettes not only ensures 

 the absorption of the carbon-dioxide in proportion as it is produced 

 by the animal but keeps up a continual agitation of the air within 

 the jar A which tends to maintain its composition uniform. The 

 frames in which the glass pipettes move, together with the wheels 

 etc. moving them, are firmly supported by a heavy metal frame- 

 work resting upon the floor. The pipette,^ F PI. I, filled with oxy- 

 gen by means of the tube d, replacing that of the jar A absorbed by 

 the animal, has a capacity of 19,440 c. c. between the marks b and caud 

 it communicates through its upper opening and with the flask P which 

 in turn communicates with the jar A and, through its lower opening 

 with a vessel e which receives the liquid that flows out of the pipette 



1 In the original experiments as performed by Rejjnault and Reiset three 

 oxygen pipettes similar to the one described above were successively used, the ex- 

 periment lasting until the last pipette was exhausted. It was found, however, by 

 the authors, though provided with the three pipettes, that it was easier on account 

 of the connections to refill the same pipette when necessary than to substitute for 

 it a second pipette previously filled. 




1891.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 17 



F, when the latter is filled with oxygen, and with the tube/into which 

 the liquid flows that drives the oxygen out of the pipette over into 

 the jar A. The oxygen made use of by the authors was obtained by 

 beating in an iron retort a mixture of chlorate of potassium and 

 black oxide of manganese and passing the gas so developed through 

 a solution of caustic potassa. The gas so purified and further tested 

 by explosion with hydrogen, appeared to be pure. In order to intro- 

 duce the oxygen into the pipette previously filled with a concen- 

 trated solution of calcium chloride, little or no oxygen being ab- 

 sorbed by that liquid, the stop cock on the upper tube d putting 

 the oxygen reservoir in communication with the pipette and that 

 on the inferior tube j conducting the fluid away, must be opened, and 

 as the oxygen passes into the pipette the solution of the calcium 

 chloride flows out into the vessel e. The pipette should be filled 

 under a little higher pressure than that of the atmosphere and the 

 gas allowed to acquire the same temperature as that of the latter. 

 By allowing a little oxygen to escape and so making its elastic 

 force equal to that of the atmosphere, the level of the solution of 

 calcium chloride can be brought to that of the lower mark c. The 

 height of the barometer and the temperature of the oxygen must 

 now be noted, the latter being ascertained by means of a thermom- 

 eter suspended within the pipette. 



After this somewhat detailed description of our respiration ap- 

 paratus let us endeavor to describe the manner of conducting the 

 experiments. 



Method of Experimentation. 



The oxygen pipette being filled under the atmospheric pressure 

 H and a temperature t let V represent the capacity in litres of the 

 pipette between the upper and lower marks and / the pressure of 

 the aqueous vapor abandoned to the oxygen by the solution of cal- 

 cium chloride, then the weight W of the oxygen delivered to the 

 bell-jar supposing the pipette to be emptied to the lower mark,' will 

 be given by the equation 



1 In order to be able, if necessary, to stop the experiment at any moment the 

 pipette was graduated in litres and demilitres Owing, however, to the uncer- 

 tainly as to the accuracy of the graduation incidental lo the globular form and 

 large size of the pipette it is undesirable to terminate the experiment before the 

 pipette has emptied itself to the upper mark. 




18 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



1 H-/ 



W=. 1-4298 V . X 



1 + 0-00367 t 760 



The pressure of the vapor from the calcium chloride sohition to 

 be deducted from the barometric pressure, was accepted by the au- 

 thors as being from 0-47 to 0-55 of the pressure of aqueous vapor at 

 corresponding temperatures according as the temperatures of the 

 oxygen varied from 16° C to 21° C, the experiments being made in 

 winter or summei*. 



The pipettes for absorbing the carbon dioxide are now weighed 

 and then filled with a solution of caustic potash or soda and then 

 again weighed, the difference giving the weight of the solution, the 

 amount of carbon dioxide present in the soda having been previously 

 determined by analysis, the method of which will be described pres- 

 ently. The animal is now introduced, with food and drink if 

 necessary, into the bell-jar, the walls of which have been previously 

 moistened. In order to maintain the temperature of the water sur- 

 rounding the bell-jar as constant as possible, the experiment should 

 begin with the temperature of the water a little higher than that of 

 the surrounding atmosphere, the heat given oflJ"by the animal compen- 

 sating for that given off by the water. The lid closing the inferior 

 opening of the jar is now screwed up and the two-way stop cocks so 

 turned that the interior of the bell-jar is put in communication with 

 the interior of the oxygen pipette through the intermediation of the 

 flask P but cut off from the atmosphere, and the carbon dioxide pip- 

 ettes put in motion through the descent of the weight. Let us 

 suppose that the respiration of the animal consists simply in the con- 

 sumption of oxygen and production of carbon dioxide. It is evident 

 that in proportion as the oxygen of the chamber is consumed by the 

 animal and the carbon dioxide produced is absorbed by the soda of 

 the pipettes, the elastic force of the gas within the chamber is di- 

 minished and, if the chamber communicates with the oxygen pi])- 

 ette, the oxygen absorbed will be at once replaced by an equivalent 

 amount of oxygen, provided that the solution of calcium chloride be 

 added through the tube /to that in the oxygen pipette in quantity 

 sufficient to maintain the elastic force of the gas equal to that of the 



1 Tlie number r4298=\veight of 1 litre of oxygen at standard pressure and 

 temperature. 

 0'00367^coefficient of expansion for each deg. C. 



760.=standard barometric pressure in millimetres of mer- 

 cury. 




1891.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 19 



atmosphere. This successive addition of the solution of calcium 

 chloride is accomplished by putting the tube of the oxygen pip- 

 ette in communication with the reservoir G containing a con- 

 centrated solution of calcium chloride, the level of which is main- 

 tained very nearly constant by means of the three glass flasks 1, 2, 

 3 filled with the same solution and which empty themselves success- 

 ively as the level of the fluid in the reservoir falls, the flasks differing 

 slightly from each other in the length of their necks. In proportion as 

 the oxygen in the pipette becomes rarefied the liquid column in the 

 tube falls and the elastic force of the air in the tube diminishes, the 

 consequence of which is that the solution of calcium chloride flows 

 from the reservoir into the tube and thence into the pipette. Xever- 

 theless the elastic force in the chamber does not remain constant 

 during the time that the pipette furnishes oxygen. It diminishes in 

 proportion as the pijiette becomes filled with the solution of calcium 

 chloride, that is if such solution was at the same level in the tube and 

 the ])ipette at the moment that the former was cemented to the tube 

 leading from the reservoir, the pressure of the air within opposing 

 the flow from the reservoir^ As a matter of fact, however, the vari- 

 ations due to the cause just mentioned may be restricted to very 

 narrow limits by simply raising the level of the solution in the tube 

 a few inches higher than that of the solution in the pipette before 

 joining the tube to that leading from the reservoir. By so do- 

 ing an excess of pressure of the gas within the chamber of about 1 

 centimeter is maintained which is of advantage in compensating for 

 the small amount of carbon dioxide 1 to 2 per cent always present 

 in the chamber notwithstanding the constant play of the pipettes for 

 the absorption of the latter. It should be mentioned, however, in this 

 connection that absolute constancy of pressure can not be main- 

 tained since variations in barometric pressure modify that of the 

 gas within the chamber. Towards the end of the experiment, when 

 there only remains about 300 cubic centimeters of oxygen in the pip- 

 ette, the tubes are disconnected and the solution of calcium chloride 

 poured into the tube until the solution in the pipette rises to the 

 level of the upper mark when the stop cock on the tube is turned 

 off". By this time there is an excess of pressure within the chamber 

 of about 2 to 3 per cent and Avhile the oxygen corresponding to this ex- 



^ That such is the case is shown by disconnecting the tubes for a moment 

 after the flow from the reservoir has ceased, for in connecling them again the 

 flow at once begins. 




20 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



cess is consumed by the animal, plenty of time is afforded for making 

 the temperature of the water and therefore of the chamber the same 

 as at the beginning. By observing the fall of the mercury in the 

 gauge the requisite number of millimetres of mercury is obtained 

 which, if added to or subtracted from the observed barometric pres- 

 sure, makes the final equal to the initial pressure.^ 



During this time also a sample of the gas of the chamber is drawn 

 oft' for analysis. 



In order to draw off a sample of gas from the chamber for analy- 

 sis the tube already referred to as being given off from the tube 

 T is put in communication with the large mercurial manometer. 

 In this case as the mercury flows out the gas flows into the manometer 

 whence, as will be presently described, it is transferred for analysis to 

 the Hempel burettes. It is indispensable that the sample of gas 

 should be drawn from the chamber as the pipette R ascends, inas- 

 much as at that moment the gas of the chamber loaded with carbon di- 

 oxide passes into that pipette and consequently into the manometer. 

 If the sample was drawn as the pipette descends, the gas so obtained 

 being freed of its carbon dioxide would not represent the composition 

 of the gas within the chamber. The sample of gas having been 

 drawn from the chamber at the moment that the pressure of the gas 

 was the same as at the beginning of experiment the movement of 

 the pipettes for the absorption of the carbon dioxide is stopped. 

 The animal is removed and weighed together with food and excreta 

 and the pipettes at once also weighed. The increase in w^eight of 

 the pipettes at the end of the experiment as compared with their 

 weight at the beginning represents both the carbon dioxide absorbed 

 and the hj^grometric water fixed by the concentrated solution of 

 soda. The weight of the carbon dioxide contained in the solution 

 of soda is then determined by analysis and deducting therefrom the 

 the weight of the carbon dioxide that the solution contained at the 

 beginning of the experiment as ])reviously determined, the dift'erence 

 will be the weight of the carbon dioxide absorbed during the experi- 

 ment by the solution of soda. This weight added to that of the car- 

 bon dioxide remaining in the chamber at the end of the experi- 

 ment as determined by analysis of the sample drawn from the cham- 



^ If for convenience it be necessary to terminate an experiment at any mo- 

 ment, and a difference still exists between the final and initial temperatures, and 

 between the final and initial pressures, the error so arising, due to the initial vol- 

 ume of the gas of the chamber being thereby increased or diminished, must be 

 taken into consideration in the summing up of the general results. 




1891.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 21 



ber will give the total weight of the carbon dioxide produced by the 

 animal. It is evident if during the experiment, oxygen has only 

 been consumed and carbon dioxide only produced, the latter being as 

 rapidly absorbed as produced, that the composition of the gas of the 

 chamber will be the same at the end as at the beginning of the ex- 

 periment. That the gas of the chamber during the experiment does 

 not differ to any great extent from that of the atmos])here is shown 

 not only by the analysis of the air but from the fact that the ani- 

 mals do not experience any discomfort even after a much longer so- 

 journ in the chamber than that to which they were subjected in the 

 experiments by the authors. It should be added in this connection 

 that^he air of the chamber is neither altered by the food nor ex- 

 creta of the animal. Let us consider now the data at our disposal 

 by means of which the composition of the air of the chamber at the 

 beginning and end of the experiment can be determined. The vol- 

 ume of air at the beginning of the experiment is equal to that which 

 is contained in the chamber, in the pipettes for the absorbing of the 

 carbon dioxide, and in the connecting tubes less the volume of air 

 displaced by the animal and food which are introduced into the 

 the chamber. The determination of both the latter volumes when 

 the density of the food can not be determined, can only be made ap- 

 proximately but in taking it as equal to the volume of air displaced 

 by an equal weight of'water the error committed can be but slight. 

 This is equally true at the end of the experiment, for apart from the 

 oxygen consumed and carbon dioxide produced and nitrogen present 

 being in relatively large quantities it must be remembered that by 

 far the greatest part of the food consumed is still present either 

 within the animal or in its excreta. Indeed the only part of the 

 food actually disappearing and which diminishes its volume is that 

 entering into the formation of the carbon dioxide and which must in 

 any case occupy less volume than the water having the same weight 

 as the carbon dioxide produced. Let V represent the volume in li- 

 tres of the air of the chamber on the supposition that the animal has 

 just been enclosed within the latter, H the elastic force of that air, 

 at its temperature, f the pressure of the aqueous vapor at that tem- 

 perature to be deducted from H, it acting in opposition to it, then 

 the weight of the oxygen and nitrogen that the chamber contains at 

 the beginning of the experiment can be determined by substituting 

 in the following equations 




22 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891- 



1 H— f 



Weight of oxygen=0-2095. 1^% 4298. V. 



l+0'00367.t 760 

 1 H— f 



Weight of nitrogenr=0-7905. 1^'; 2562. V. 



l+0-00367.t 760 

 the values of V, H, t and f obtained by observation; 0'2095 aud 

 0*7905 representing the amounts of oxygen and nitrogen per volnme 

 in 100 volumes of air aud l'^'-4298 and l'-''-2562 the weight of a li- 

 tre of oxygen and nitrogen respectively at standard pressure and tem- 

 perature. At the end of the experiment H, t and f being made the 

 same as at the beginning, the total volume of air then within the 

 chamber will be unchanged its composition having been modified by 

 the amount of carbon dioxide or other gases produced and remain- 

 ing in the chamber. The weight of carbon dioxide oxygen and ni- 

 trogen or other gases' present in the chamber at the end of the ex- 

 periment is then determined by multiplying the weight of the gases 

 obtained from the sample of gas drawn from the chamber by the ra- 

 tio of the volume of air of the chamber V to that of the sample v. 

 Let us suppose that C, O and X represent the weight of the carbon 

 dioxide oxygen and nitrogen in the sample of air drawn from the 

 chamber and that^"=M; then CM, OM and NM will be the weight 

 of the carbon dioxide, oxygen and nitrogen in the chamber at the end 

 of the experiment. The weight of the carbon dioxide present in the 

 chamber must be added as already mentioned to that obtained from the 

 pipettes to obtain the total amount of carbon dioxide produced while 

 the weight of the oxygen remaining in the chamber must be de- 

 ducted from the sum of the weight of oxygen present in the cham- 

 ber at the beginning of the experiment and that delivered to the 

 chamber during the experiment to obtain the total weight of oxygen 

 consumed. Finally the increase or diminution in the weight of the 

 nitrogen within the chamber at the beginning and end of the experi- 

 ment amounting to perhaps the 0'02 of a gramm the authors regard 

 as being due to errors in the eudiometrical readings rather than as 

 nitrogen exhaled or inhaled by the animal, the amount of nitrogen in 

 the chamber present being the same at the end as at the beginning 

 of the experiments. 



Method of Determining the Weight of the Carbon 



Dioxide Absorbed by the Solution of Soda 



in the Pipettes. 



The method made use of by the authors in determining the weight 

 of the carbon dioxide absorbed by the soda solution in the pipettes 




1891.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 23 



was essentially that recommended by Regnault. It depends upon 

 the decomposition of the sodium carbonate in the solution through 

 the addition of sulphuric acid and the reabsorbing of the carbon di- 

 oxide so set free by passing the latter through bulbs, etc. containing 

 soda, the increase in the weight of the bulbs giving the weight of 

 the carbon dioxide absorbed. The apparatus represented in F Plate 

 II consists of a litre flask B into which is poured a sample of the 

 soda solution from the pipettes to be analyzed. Through the cork 

 closing the flask pass three tubes, the first tube communicates with 

 the U shaped tube A containing soda and pumice stone for the ab- 

 sorption of the carbon dioxide in the air that passes through the ap- 

 paratus at the end of the experiment. The second tube serves for 

 the introduction of the su Iphuric acid which should be a little less dense 

 than the alkaline solution aud added gradually to the latter, the 

 mixture being slowly heated by gas jets to boiling. The third tube 

 communicates with the narrow flask C containing concentrated sul- 

 phuric acid, the latter communicating in turn with the tube D 

 containing pumice stone and sulphuric acid for drying the air and 

 through which the carbon dioxide developed passes on its way to 

 the Liebig bulbs E containing a concentrated solution of soda and 

 the tube F containing pumice stone and small pieces of caustic 

 soda. The remaining tubes G and H contain pumice sione aud 

 concentrated sulphuric acid. The increase in weight of the three 

 tubes E F and G at the end of the experiment, the tubes having 

 been pi'eviously weighed at the beginning, gives the weight of the 

 carbon dioxide absorbed. To ensure accuracy in the weighing of 

 the tubes E, F, G three similar tubes disposed in the same manner 

 and displacing an equal volume of air should be used as counter 

 weights. 



The tube H containing pumice stone and sulphuric acid serves 

 to prevent the moist air depositing water in the tube G. Finally 

 by means of the aspirating jar I a current of air is made to pass 

 through the apparatus and of so carrying the last traces of carbon 

 dioxide to the soda solution absorbing it. In order to maintain the 

 tubes firmly ])ound together and to facilitate their connection 

 and disconnection they are all clamped to a solid wooden frame- 

 work ])y means of which they can all be removed together aud in 

 position when desirable. The weight of the carbon dioxide pre- 

 viously existing in the soda solution placed in the pipettes at the 

 beginning of the experiment for absorption of the carbon dioxide 




24 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



produced by the auimal is determined by means of the same appara- 

 tus and must of course be deducted from the weight of the carbon 

 dioxide absorbed, present in the soda solution at the end of the ex- 

 periment. 



It has already been mentioned, that by means of the accessory 

 tube T PI. I given off by the tube leading from the chamber, to the 

 carbon dioxide pipette R, that a sample of gas can be drawn into 

 the large mercurial manometer. By so turning its three-way stop 

 cock, as to let the mercury flow out, the sample so obtained is after- 

 wards driven over to the absorbing or explosion apparatus for anal- 

 ysis. This is accomplished by pouring mercury into the limb of 

 the manometer opposite that containing the sample, the three-way 

 stop cock being so turned as to put both limbs in communication 

 and then of retransferring to the manometer for determination of 

 volume of gases absorbed. The method made use of by the authors, 

 however, in order to expedite the analysis is to draw the sample of 

 gas from the chamber directly into a Hempel graduated burette B^ 

 filled with mercury, the latter, Plate III, Fig. 1, flowing out of the 

 burette as the mercurial reservoir A with which the burette com- 

 municates is lowered by means of the wheel work C attached to the 

 solid wooden frame fastened to the table. The sample of gas so ob- 

 tained reduced to standard temperature and pressure is then driven 

 out of the burette B by elevating the mercurial reservoir into a 

 Hempel pipettte F containing a concentrated solution of soda and 

 after remaining there long enough for the absorption of any carbon 

 dioxide present is driven back into the graduated burette by lower- 

 ing the mercurial reservoir, the diminution in volume, the latter re- 

 duced to standard temperature and pressure, representing the carbon 

 dioxide absorbed. The pipette for the absorption of the carbon diox- 

 ide being removed, the burette is connected with one containing pyro- 

 gallic acid into which the sample of gas just freed of its carbon diox- 

 ide is driven by elevating the reservoir and in which it is allowed 

 to remain until the oxygen present is absorbed. The sample of gas 

 being then driven back into the graduated burette by lowering the 

 reservoir the diminution in volume, reduced to standard temperature 

 and pressure, represents the volume of oxygen absorbed. The volume 

 of gas now remaining in the burette the authors regarded as consist- 

 ing of nitrogen. At least the volume of residual gas in the burette was 



1 Neue Methoden fiir Analyse der Gase, von Dr. W. Hempel, Braun- 

 schweig, 1880. 




1891.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 25 



usually such as it ought to be on the supposition that it was nitrogen, 

 and as can be shown experimentally by transferring the gas to the 

 Explosion Apparatus Plate III, Fig. 2. The connection with the 

 burette containing the gas is made with that limb of the apparatus 

 A which has been previously filled with a solution of soda the latter 

 being forced up by the mouth applied at the end of the other limb F 

 and the latter then clamped. A known volume of oxygen being then 

 introduced, and a sufficient volume of detonating gas developed elec- 

 trolytically by means of three Daniell cells connected with the i)lati- 

 num plates, through the binding screws H H the gaseous mixture is 

 exploded by connecting a RuhmkorfF apparatus Avith the platinum 

 terminals G G. The fact of there being no diminution in the volume 

 of the residual air as ascertained by transferring the gas back to the 

 graduated burette proves the absence of at least hydrogen, heavy car- 

 buretted hydrogen, C, H4 and light carburetted hydrogen or marsh 

 gas, C H4 the gases which are the most likely to be present, the two 

 former coming from the rectum of the animal the latter from its 

 food. That there is no free hydrogen^ is further shown in the absence 

 af absorption on passing the residual gas through palladium. The 

 following tabulated actual experiment will serve to illustrate the gen- 

 eral method and order of exj)erimentation. 



Experiment Xo. 17. 



Oct. 2dth, 8.45 P. M. 



2 Pigeons. 



BEGINNING OF EXPERIMENT. 



Weight of animal 0""-567 



" " food 0-^" 000 



Barometer ......... 748'"'"" 



Temp, of Chamber ........ 18°C 



Pressure of Aq. Vap 15°*35 



Vol. of Gas of Chamber lit. 748—15-35 lit. 



at standard temp. = 47-6— 0-567. = 42-53 



and pressure 760 (1+00367-18) 



1 Were these gases present in the residual air then after explosion with 

 oxygen water and carbon dioxide would be formed and retained in the pipeite the 

 volume of the gas being consequently diminished. It should be mentioned, how- 

 ever, in this connection that it is extremely difficult whatever tiie kind of apparatus 

 used, to determine such very small volumes of hydrogen or carburetted hydrogen 

 or marsh gas as are likely to be present in the sample of gas drawn from the cham- 

 ber for analysis and in neglecting to take these gases into account no very sensible 

 error, at least in most instances, will be introduced into the result. 



3 




26 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Weight of 



Oxygen in = 0-2095 1-4298 gr. 42-53 



Chamber. 



Weight of 



Nitrogen in = 0*7905 1-2562 gr. 42-53 



Chamber 



Temp, of Oxygen in Pipette 



Pressure of Aq. Vap. aband. by Calcium Chloride sol. 



Weight of 



Oxygen in = 1-4298 gr. 19*440 



Pipette. 



AV eight of Pipettes and Soda sol. 



748—7-67 



r60 (1+00367-19) 



" Soda sol. or difference 



Sample of Soda sol. analyzed = 140- cc 

 AVeight of tubes at end .... 



" •' beginning . 



Carbon dioxide absorbed or difference 

 Carbon dioxide in Soda sol. used 



End of Experiment. 

 Duration of experiment 

 Weight of animal 

 " excreta 



Barometer .... 

 Pressure in gauge 



Elastic force of gas in chamber 

 Temperature of chamber 

 Vol. of gas of chamber lit 



at standard = 42*53 



temp, and press. 



Analysis of Sample Gas 



Barometer ....... 



Temperature of laboratory .... 



[1891. 

 grammes. 

 = 12-739 



= 42-220 



ig** 



. 7-°'"-679 

 grammes. 



== 25-297 



7683-000 

 6238-000 



= 1445-000 



= 258-35 

 = 257-50 



= 000-85 

 = 8-77 



21 hours. 



0-529 



0-038 



mm. 



758 



10 



748 

 18°C 



762-"""-6 



18°5 




1891.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 27 



Pressure of aq. vapor ...... 15"°"°'8 



Vol. of sample of gas at observed temp, and press. = 71 cc 



Vol. of sample reduced to stand. 



temp, and press, before absorp- ^^^ 65*32 cc 



tion of carbon dioxide. 

 Vol. of sample after absorption 



of carbon dioxide. = 64'40 cc 



Carbon dioxide absorbed. ^= 00'92 cc 



Vol. of sample after absorption 



of Oxygen. = 51"71 cc 



Oxygen absorbed. = 12'69 cc 



Composition of Gas of Chamber. 



Volume of Gas of chamber. 42530 

 = = 651 



Volume of Gas of sample. 65"32 



LIT, GRAMMES. 



0-92 651 = 0-6 1-966 = 1-179 = Carbon dioxide. ^ 



12-69 651 = 8-2 1-429 = 11-789 = Oxygen. [ 



51-71 651 =-: 33-6 1-256 = 42-238 = Nitrogen. 3 chamber. 



Composition per volume. Composition per cent. 



Carbon dioxide. 0-60 1-4 



Oxygen. 8-25 19-5 



Nitrogen. 33-62 ' 79-1 



42-47 100-0 



GRAMMES. 



Weight of Oxygen delivered to chamber from Pipette = 25-297 

 " in chamber at beginning of exp. = 12-739 



available = 38-036 



in chamber at end of exp. = 11-789 




28 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



Weight of sample of Soda sol. analyzed 140 cc 



" Tubes at end = 257-72 



" " at beginning = 254*20 



Carbon dioxide absorbed or difference = 003"5O 



1474 gr. of Soda sol. at end contained Carbon dioxide = 37*060 

 1445 " " at beg. " " = 8*770 



Carbon dioxide produced by animal = 28*280 



" " absorbed by Soda sol. rem. in chamber = 1*179 



Total CO2 produced by animal = 29*459 



Weight of Oxygen in Carbon dioxide produced = 21*424 



Weight of Oxygen in Carbon dioxide produced , 21'424 



■ = Re^p. Quot. = = 0-816 



Weight of Oxygen consumed 26247 



Weight of Nitrogen in chamber at beginning = 42*22 



at end = 42*20 



00*02 

 W. of CO2 produced by animal per hour = 1*402 



W. of CO2 produced per hour per kil. of animal = 2*472 



In order to test the accuracy of the method of experimentation 

 just described by control experiments the authors burned within the 

 chamber a given weight of stearic acid. 6*^''*7 of stearic acid (Cig 

 H36 O2) when burned should theoretically produce 18*9 gr. CO2. 

 When burned in the chamber of the respiratory apparatus, that 

 amount of stearic acid actually produced 18*5 gr. of CO2. The loss 

 0*^'^'4 CO2 or 2*1. pc. was not, therefore, greater than what might 

 been have anticipated. 



The animals experimented with, rabbits, monkeys, pigeons, tur- 

 tles, enjoying good health at the beginning of the experiment, did 

 not appear to suffer in any way from their sojourn in the chamljer 

 of the respiratory apjmratus. The food placed in the chamber when 

 the animals had not been previously fed was in some instances not 

 eaten, the animal apparently not being then hungry. The period 

 of experimentation extended through the winter, spring and summer 

 months of 1890. The hour of experiment selected, day or night, de- 

 pended upon the convenience and the amount of time at the dis- 

 posal of the experimenters. 




1891.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 29 



Experiment No. 1. 



Jan. 15th. 



Rabbit. 



Weight of animal ....... 2"''5 



Weight of food O-'^'O 



Duration of experiment 7 hours, day. 



Difference between the initial and final temperature 



of the gas of the chamber .... +0°"5 C. 

 Difference between the initial and final pressure of 



the gas of the chamber .... ^•"""■o 



Composition of gas of chamber at the Composition 



end of the experiment per cent 



Carbon dioxide 0-807 Carbon dioxide 2'00 



Oxygen 7-331 Oxygen 18-00 



Nitrogen 33-737 Nitrogen 80-00 



41-875 100-00 



GRAMMES. 



Weight of oxygen consumed 15-994 



Weight of carbon dioxide produced . . . 19-762 

 Weight of oxygen contained in the carbon dioxide 14-372 

 Ratio between the weight of the oxygen contained 

 in the carbon dioxide produced, and the weight 

 of the oxygen consumed .... 0-898 

 Weight of oxygen consumed per hour . . 2*284 

 Weight of oxygen consumed per hour per kilo- 

 gramme of animal ..... 0-913 

 Weight of carbon dioxide produced per hour . 2*823 

 Weight of carbon dioxide produced i^er hour per 



kilogramme of animal .... ri29 



Experiment No. 2. 

 Jan. 20th. 

 Rabbit. 



Weight of animal . 2. ' '4 



Weight of food, turnips 0."' 4 



Duration of experiment ... 12 hrs. 45 min. night. 



Difference between the initial and final tempera- 

 ture of the gas of the chamber . . . -j-0°-5 

 Difference between the final and initial pressure 



of the gas of the chamber .... +6""°- 




30 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1891. 



Composition of gas of chamber at the 



end of the experiment : 

 Carbon dioxide 0*649 



Oxygen 7-755 



Nitrogen 32'333 



Composition 

 per cent : 



Carbon dioxide 



Oxygen 



Nitrogen 



40-737 



1-6 

 19-0 

 79-4 



100-0 



GKAMMES. 



31-53 

 35-26 

 25-65 



Weight of oxygen consumed ..... 

 Weight of carbon dioxide produced 

 Weight of oxygen contained in the carbon dioxide 

 Ratio between the weight of the oxygen contained 

 in the carbon dioxide produced, and the weight 

 of the oxygen consumed . . . .■ 



Weight of oxygen consumed per hour 

 Weight of oxygen consumed per' hour per kilo- 

 gramme of animal ..... 

 Weight of carbon dioxide produced per hour 

 Weight of carbon dioxide produced per hour per 

 kilogramme of animal ..... 



Experiment Xo. 3. 

 Jan. 2Uh. 

 Rabbit. 

 Weight of animal ....... 



Weight of food ....... 



Duration of experiment ..... 7-5 hi 



Difference between the initial and final temperature 

 of the gas of the chamber .... 



Difference between the initial and final pressure of 



the gas of the chamber +10°""- 



Composition of gas of chamber at the Composition 



end of the experiment per cent 



Carbon dioxide 0-448 Carbon dioxide 1*00 



Oxygen 8-655 Oxygen 20-10 



0-81 

 2-48 



1-03 

 2-76 



1-15 



2.''"-3 

 O.^-'O 

 , day. 



0°-5 C. 



Nitrogen 



34-036 



43-139 



Nitrogen 



Weight of oxygen consumed .... 



Weight of carbon dioxide produced 



Weight of oxygen contained in the carbon dioxide 



78-90 

 100-00 



GRAMMES. 



9-219 



10-706 



7-786 




1891.] XATirRAL SCIEXCKS OF PHILADELPHIA. 31 



Ratio between the weight of the oxygen contained 

 in the carbon dioxide produced, and the weight 

 of the oxygen consumed .... 0"844 



Weight of oxygen consumed per hour . . . 1'229 



AVeight of oxygen consumed per hour per kilo- 

 gramme of animal ...... 0"534 



Weight of carbon dioxide produced per hour . r427 



Weight of carbon dioxide produced per hour per 



per kilogramme of animal .... 0'620 



Experiment J^o. 4. 

 Feb. ?,rd. 

 Rabbit. 



Weight of animal 2-''"-6 



Weight of food O-"^"- 



Duration of experiment ...... 7"5 hrs., day. 



Difference between the initial and final tempera- 

 ture of the gas of the chamber . . . -\-1°C. 

 Difference between the initial and final pressure 



of the gas of the chamber .... ^.mm.g 



Composition of gas of chamber at the Composition 



end of the experiment: per cent : 



Carbon dioxide 0'983 Carbon dioxide 2-3 



Oxygen 7'244 Oxygen 17"3 



Nitrogen 33*787 Nitrogen 80-04 



42-014 100-00 



GRAMMES. 



Weight of oxygen consumed ..... 15-00 



Weight of carbon dioxide produced . . . 19*80 



Weight of oxygen contained in the carbon dioxide 14-40 

 Ratio between the weight of the oxygen contained 

 in the carbon dioxide produced, and the weight 



of the oxygen consumed ..... 0-96 



Weight of oxygen consumed per hour . . . 2-00 

 Weight of oxygen consumed per hour per kilo- 

 gramme of animal ...... 0-70 



AVeight of carbon dioxide produced per hour . 2-64 

 AA^eight of carbon dioxide produced per hour per 



kiloerramme of animal ..... rOl 




32 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



Experivient No. 5. 

 Feb. oth. 

 Rabbit. 



AVeight of animal 2-"'-3 



Weight of food, turnips 0""''2 



Duration of experiment 11 hours, day. 



Difference between the initial and final tempera- 

 ture of the gas of the chamber . . . +1° C. 

 Difference between the initial and final pressure of 



the gas of the chamber -f4-'"°>-4 



Composition of gas of chamber at the Composition 



end of the experiment percent 



Carbon dioxide 0886 Carbon dioxide 2*1 



Oxygen 7'763 Oxygen 18' 7 



Nitrogen 32-853 Nitrogen 79*2 



41-502 100-0 



grammes. 



Weight of oxygen consumed ..... 22-534 



Weight of carbon dioxide produced . . . 28*132 



Weight of oxygen contained in the carbon dioxide 20-459 

 Ratio between the weight of the oxygen contained 

 in the carbon dioxide produced, and the weight 



of the oxygen consumed .... 0-907 



Weight of oxygen consumed per hour . . . 2-048 

 Weight of oxygen consumed per hour per kilo- 

 gramme of animal ...... 0-890 



Weight of carbon dioxide produced per hour . 2-557 

 Weight of carbon dioxide produced per hour per 



kilogramme of animal ..... 1-111 



Experiment Xo. 6. 

 Feb. 7th. 

 Rabbit, 



Weight of animal 2-''"-5 



Weight of food 0-"'-0 



Duration of experiment ..... 9 hrs. 



Difference between the initial and final tempera- 

 ture of the chamber ..... -f-l°C^ 

 Difference between the initial and final pressure 



of the gas of the chamber .... -fS-""- 




NATURAL SCIEXCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



1891.] 



■Composition of gas of chamber at tlie 



end of the experiment : 

 Carbon dioxide 0-919 



Oxygen 7'849 



Nitrogen 33-9G3 



33 



Composition 



per cent : 



Carbon dioxide 2*15 



Oxygen 18'37 



Nitrogreu 79*48 



-42-731 Lit. 



Weight of oxygen consumed .... 



Weight of carbon dioxide produced 



Weight of oxygen contained in the carbon dioxide 



Ratio between the weight of the oxygen contained 

 in the carbon dioxide produced, and the weight 

 of the oxygen consumed .... 



Weight of oxygen consumed per hour 



Weight of oxygen consumed per hour per kilo- 

 gramme of animal ..... 



Weight of carbon dioxide produced per hour . 



Weight of carbon dioxide produced per hour per 

 kilogramme of animal .... 



Experiment No. 7. 

 Feb. 10th. 

 Rabbit. 



100-00 



GRAMMES. 



18-526 

 24-010 

 17-470 



0-957 

 2-058 



0-823 

 2-668 



1-067 



Weight of animal . 

 Weight of food, turnips 

 Duration of experiment 



2.IiiI.9 

 Q.kil.2 



11 hours, night. 



Difference between the initial and final tempera- 

 ture of the gas of the chamber 

 Difference between the initial and final pressure 



of the gas of the chamber 

 Composition of gas of chamber at the 



end of the experiment : 

 Carbon dioxide 0-823 Carbon dioxide 



Oxygen 



0° C. 



Oxygen 

 Nitrogen 



7-279 

 34-956 



43-058 



Nitrosen 



Composition 

 per cent : 

 2-00 

 17-00 



81-00 



Weight of oxygen consumed . 

 Weight of carbon dioxide produced 



100-00 



GRAMMES. 



20-53 

 24-60 




34 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



Weight of oxygen contained in the carbon dioxide 17*90 



Ratio between the weight of the oxygen contained 

 in the carbon dioxide produced, and the weight 

 of the oxygen consumed ..... 0"87 



Weight of oxygen consumed per hour . . . 1'86 



Weight of oxygen consumed per hour per kilo- 

 gramme of animal ...... 0"84 



Weight of carbon dioxide produced per hour . . 2'23 



Weight of carbon dioxide produced per hour per 



kilogramme of animal ..... I'Ol 



Experiment No. 8. 

 Feb. Uth. 

 Rabbit. 



Weight of animal 2"'"'o 



Weight of food, fed before experiment . 



Duration of experiment .... 1*15 hrs., night. 



Difference between the initial and final tempera- 

 ture of the gas of the chamber ... 0° C. 

 Difference between the initial and final pressure of 



the gas in the chamber _|.jjmm. 



Composition of gas of chamber at the Composition 



end of the experiment : per cent : 



Carbon dioxide 0-889 Carbon dioxide 2'00 



Oxygen 7-946 Oxygen 19-00 



Nitrogen 32-911 Nitrogen 79-00 



41-646 100-00 



GRAMMES. 



Weight of oxygen consumed ..... 21-58 



Weight of carbon dioxide produced . . , 26*75 



Weight of oxygen contained in the carbon dioxide 19-45 

 Ratio between the weight of the oxygen contained 

 in the carbon dioxide produced, and the weight 



of the oxygen consumed ..... 0-90 



Weight of oxygen consumed per hour . . . 1*86 

 Weight of oxygen consumed per hour per kilo- 

 gramme of animal ...... 0'74 



Weight of carbon dioxide produced per hour . . 2-32 

 Weight of carbon dioxide produced per hour per 



kiloirramme of animal ..... 0-92 




1891.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



35 



Exjyeriment No. 9. 

 Feb. nth. 

 Rabbit. 



Weight of animal • 2-''"l 



Weight of food, turnips ...... 0"''"'4 



Duration of experiment ..... 12 hrs., night. 



Difference between the initial and final tempera- 

 ture of the gas of the chamber . . . -{-A° C 

 Diflference between the initial and final pressure of 

 the gas of the chamber .... 



Composition of gas of chamber at the 



end of the experiment : 

 Carbon dioxide 1'230 Carbon dioxide 



Oxygen 6"033 Oxygen 



Nitrogen 34*165 Nitrogen 



41-428 



Weight of oxygen consumed . . . . , 



Weight of carbon dioxide produced 



Weight of oxygen contained in the carbon dioxide 



Ratio between the weight of the oxygen contained 

 in the carbon dioxide produced, and the weight 

 of the oxygen consumed .... 



Weight of oxygen consumed per hour 



Weight of oxygen consumed per hour per kilo- 

 gramme of animal ..... 



Weight of carbon dioxide produced per hour . 



Weight of carbon dioxide produced per hour per 

 kilogramme of animal .... 



Q.m.Q 



Composition 



per cent : 



3-000 



14-000 



83-000 



100-000 



GRAMMES. 



24-396 

 29-310 

 21-316 



0-873 

 2-033 



0-968 

 2-442 



1-162 



Experiment No. 10. 

 March Wth. 

 Rabbit. 

 Weight of animal ....... 



Weight of food, turnips ..... 



Duration of experiment ..... 



Difference between the initial and final tempera- 

 ture of the gas of the chamber 

 Difference between the initial and final pressure of 

 ■ the gas of the chamber 



13 hn 



2-''"l 

 ., night. 

 -fl° C. 

 + l-.--"^4 




36 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Composition of gas of chamber at the 



end of the experiment ■ 

 Carbon dioxide 0-693 



Oxygen 6-672 



Nitrogen 35-076 



[1891. 



Composition 

 per cent : 



Carbon dioxide 



Oxygen 



Kitrogen 



42-441 



Weight of oxygen consumed .... 



Weight of carbon dioxide produced 



Weight of oxygen contained in the carbon dioxide 



Ratio between the weight of the oxygen contained 

 in the cai-bon dioxide produced, and the weight 

 of the oxygen consumed .... 



Weight of oxygen consumed per hour 



Weight of oxygen consumed per hour per kilo- 

 gramme of animal 



Weight of carbon dioxide produced per hour . 



Weight of carbon dioxide produced per hour per 

 kilogramme of animal .... 



1-6 

 15-7 



82-7 



100-0 



GRAMMES. 



27-21 

 34-12 

 24-81 



0-91 

 2-09 



0-99 

 2-62 



1-24 



Experiment No. 

 March 20th. 

 Rabbit. 



11. 



Weight of animal 



Weight of food, turnips 



Duration of experiment 



Difference between the initial and final tempera- 

 ture of the gas of the chamber 



Difference between the initial and final pressure of 

 the gas of the chamber . 



Composition of gas of chamber at the 

 end of the experiment : 



Carbon dioxide 0-558 



Oxygen 6-810 



Nitrogen 32-592 



13 hrs 



2.kii.4 

 O.kn.4 



iiigrht. 



-h0°-5 C. 



39-960 



Weight of oxygen consumed . 

 Weight of carbon dioxide produced 




1891.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 37 



"Weight of oxygen contained in the carbon dioxide 27*242 



Ratio between the weight of the oxygen contained 

 in the carbon dioxide produced, and the weight 

 of the oxygen consumed ..... 0*971 



Weight of oxygen consumed per hour . . . 2*141 



Weight of oxygen consumed per hour per kilo- 

 gramme of animal ...... 0*892 



Weight of carbon dioxide produced per hour . . 2*862 



Weight of carbon dioxide produced per hour per 



kilogramme of animal ..... 1*192 



Experiment No. 12. 



April 2Sth. 



Rabbit. 



Weight of animal 2*"" 00 



Weight of food, turnips 0*''"12 



Duration of experiment ..... 9 hrs. 45 min., day. 

 Difference between the initial and final tempera- 

 ture of gas in the chamber . . . . -f 5° C. 

 Difference between the initial and final pressure of 



the gas of the chamber ..... +3"°™'0 



Composition of gas of chamber at the Composition 



end of the experiment : per cent : 



Carbon dioxide 1*194 Carbon dioxide 2*85 



Oxygen 7*688 Oxygen 18*39 



Nitrogen 32*927 Nitrogen 78*76 



41*809 100*00 



GRAMMES. 



Weight of oxygen consumed ..... 17*535 



Weight of carbon dioxide produced . . . 21*878 



Weight of oxygen contained in the carbon dioxide 15*911 

 Ratio between the weight of the oxygen contained 

 in the carbon dioxide produced, and the weight 



of the oxygen consumed ..... 0*907 



Weight of oxygen consumed per hour . . . 1*807 

 Weight of oxygen consumed per hour per kilo- 

 gramme of animal ...... 0*903 



Weight of carbon dioxide produced per hour . , 2*254 

 Weight of carbon dioxide produced per hour per 



kilogramme of animal ..... 1*127 




38 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



Experiment ]So. 13. 

 May 2nd. 

 Eabbit. 



Weight of animal l-''"-8 



Weight of food, turnips I-'^'IS 



Duration of experiment .... 11 hrs. 45 min., night. 

 Difference between the initial and final tempera- 

 ture of the gas of the chamber ... 0° C 

 Difference between the initial and final pressure of 



the gas of the chamber _10°""- 



Composition of gas of chamber at the Composition 



end of the experiment : per cent : 



Carbon dioxide 0'567 Carbon dioxide 1"40 



Oxygen 7-479 Oxygen 18-58 



Nitrogen 32-228 Nitrogen 80*02 



40-274 100-00 



GRAMMES. 



Weight of oxygen consumed 27-228 



Weight of carbon dioxide produced . . . 39-332 



Weight of oxygen contained in the carbon dioxide 28-605 

 Ratio between the weight of the oxygen contained 

 in the carbon dioxide produced, and the weight 



of the oxygen consumed ..... 1-050 



Weight of oxygen consumed per hour . . . 2-326 

 Weight of oxygen consumed per hour per kilo- 

 gramme of animal ...... 1-292 



Weight of carbon dioxide produced per hour . 3-361 

 Weight of carbon dioxide produced per hour per 



kilogramme of animal ..... 1-867 



Experiment No. 14. 



April 1st. 



Monkey, Cebus capucinus. 



Weight of animal 2-''"00 



Weight of food, orange 0-''"170 



Duration of experiment ...... 5 hrs., day. 



Difference between the initial and final tempera- 

 ture of the gas of the chamber . . . +0°-5 C. 

 Difference between the initial and final pressure of 



the gas of the chamber _j_2mm. 




NATURAL SCIEN'CES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



1891.] 



Composition of gas of chamber at the 



end of the experiment : 

 Carbon dioxide 0*855 



Oxvgen 8'^22 



!N itrogen -^-^ ^ ^ ' 



42-394 



39 



Composition 

 per cent : 

 Carbon dioxide 2-10 



Oxvgen 19-80 



Nitrogen 



Weight of oxygen consumed . • • • • 

 Weight of carbon dioxide ju-oduced . • 



Weight of oxygen contained in the carbon dioxide 

 Ratio between the weight of the oxygen contained 



in the carbon dioxide produced, and the weight 



of the oxygen consumed 



Weight of oxygen consumed per hour 



Weight of oxygen consumed per hour per kdo- 



o-ramme of animal .••••• 

 Weight of carbon dioxide produced per hour . 

 Weight of carbon dioxide produced per hour per 



kilogramme of animal 



Experiment Ko. 15. 



April 3rd. 



Monkey, Cebus capucinus. 



Weight of animal 



Weight of food, sweet potatoes . • • • 



Duration of experiment . • • • " ^ 



Difference between the initial and final tempera- 

 ture of the gas of the chamber 

 Difference between the initial and final pressure of 



the gas of the chamber . • • • 

 Composition of gas of chamber at the 



end of the experiment : 

 Carbon dioxide 0-418 Carbon dioxide 



Oxvgen 8-''59 Oxygen 



Isin-ogen 33-824 Nitrogen 



42-501 



Weight of oxygen consumed . • • • • 

 Weight of carbon dioxide produced 



78-10 

 100-00 



GRAMMES. 



13-47 



16-389 



11-919 



0-884 

 2-694 



1-347 

 3-277 



1-638 



^.kil.5Q 



0-''"-158 

 20 min., day. 



+ 3° C. 



Composition 



per cent : 



0-98 



20-61 



78-41 



100-00 



GRAMMES. 



14-31 

 18-73 




40 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Weight of oxygen contained in the carbon dioxide 



Ratio between the weight of the oxygen contained 

 in the carbon dioxide produced, and the weight 

 of the oxygen consumed .... 



Weight of oxygen consumed per hour 



Weight of oxygen consumed per hour per kilo- 

 gramme of animal ..... 



Weight of carbon dioxide produced per hour . 



Weight of carbon dioxide produced per hour per 

 kilogramme of animal .... 



Experiment No. 16. 



May 26th. 



2 Pigeons. 



[1891. 

 13-62 



0-95 

 2-27 



1-51 

 2-9T 



1-98 



Weight of animals . 

 Weight of food, corn 

 Duration of experiment 



0-''"-570 



0-'"'180 



13, hrs. 15 min., day. 



Difference between the initial and final tempera- 

 ture of the gas of the chamber 



Difference between the initial and final pressure of 

 the gas of the chamber .... 



Composition of gas of chamber at the 

 end of the experiment : 



Carbon dioxide 0'630 



Oxygen 9'447 



Nitrogen 34-131 



Carbon dioxide 



Oxygen 



Nitrogen 



+ 0°-5 C. 



+ 19-'"™00 



Composition 



per cent : 



1-42 



21-37 



77-21 



44-208 



AVeight of oxygen consumed .... 



Weight of carbon dioxide produced 



Weight of oxygen contained m the carbon dioxide 



Ratio between the weight of the oxygen contained 

 in the carbon dioxide pi-oduced, and the weight 

 of the oxygen consumed .... 



Weight of oxygen consumed per hour 



Weight of oxygen consumed per hour per kilo- 

 gramme of animal ..... 



Weight of carbon dioxide produced per hour . 



Weight of carbon dioxide produced per hour per 

 kilogramme of animal .... 



100-00 



GRAMMES. 



26-6804 

 32-1564 

 23-1592 



0-8680 

 2-0218 



3-5470 

 2-3471 



4-1178 




1891.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



41 



Experiment No. 17. 

 Oct. 29th. 

 2 Pigeons. 

 Weight of animal ...... 



Weight of food ...... 



Duration of experiment ..... 



Difference between the initial and final tempera- 

 ture of the gas of the chamber 

 Difference between the initial and final pressure of 

 the gas of the chamber .... 



Composition of gas of chamber at the 



end of the experiment : 

 Carbon dioxide 0-60 Carbon dioxide 



Oxygen 



0-''"-567 



Q.kil.Q 



21 hrs. 



o°-o 



Oxygen 

 Nitrogen 



8-25 

 33-62 



42-47 



Nitrogen 



Weight of oxygen consumed . . . . . 



Weight of carbon dioxide produced 



Weight of oxygen contained in the carbon dioxide 



Ratio between the weight of the oxygen contained 

 in the carbon dioxide j)roduced, and the weight 

 of the oxygen consumed .... 



Weight of oxygen consumed per hoar 



Weight of oxygen consumed per hour per kilo- 

 gramme of animal ..... 



Weight of carbon dioxide produced per hour . 



Weight of carbon dioxide produced per hour per 

 kilogramme of animal .... 



Experiment No. 18. 

 April 1th. 

 Turtle, Pseudemys Mobilensis. 

 Weight of animal ....... 



Weight of food, sweet potato . . . . . 



Duration of experiment ...... 



Difference between the initial and final tempera- 

 ture of the gas of the chamber 

 Difference between the initial and final pressure of 

 the gas of the chamber . . . . . 



4 



Q.mm.Q 



Composition 

 per cent : 

 1-4 

 19-5 

 79-1 



100-0 



GRAMMES. 



26-247 

 29-459 

 21-424 



0-816 

 1-249 



2-202 

 1-402 



2-472 



l-^'T 



96 hours. 



0-° C. 



+ 19-°'"-00 




42 PR0CEEDINf4S OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



Composition of gas of chamber at the Composition 



end of the experiment : per cent : 



Carbon dioxide 0'366 Carbon dioxide 0*85 



Oxygen 9-623 Oxygen 22*41 



Nitrogen 32'9o4 Nitrogen 7674 



42-943 100-00 



GRAMMES. 



Weight of oxygen consumed ..... 8-612 



Weight of carbon dioxide produced . . . 11-341 



Weight of oxygen contained in the carbon dioxide 8-248 

 Ratio between the weight of the oxygen contained 

 in the carbon dioxide produced, and the weight 



of the oxygen consumed ..... 0-957 



Weight of oxygen consumed per hour . . . 0-088 

 Weight of oxygen consumed per liour per kilo- 

 gramme of animal ...... 0-051 



Weight of carbon dioxide produced per hour . 0-118 

 Weight of carbon dioxide produced per hour per 



kilogramme of animal ..... 0-063 



Resume of 13 Experiments as regards the Consumption of 



Oxygen and Production of Carbon Dioxide 



BY Rabbits. 



Total, 26-17 11-49 33-03 14-57 11-82 




1891.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 43 



26-17 11-49 33-03 



— = 2-«"01 = 0-^'-88 = 2-«^-o3 



Average = 



13 13 13 



14-57 11-82 



= 1-^^12 = 0-90 



13 13 



It will be observed from the above resume that the rabbit con- 

 sumes upon the average 2-s''01 of oxygen per hour and 0-^''-8 of 

 oxygen per hour per kilogramme of body weight and produces 2-^''-5 

 of carbon dioxide per hour and I'^'l of carbon dioxide per hour 

 per kilogramme of body weight, the respiration quotient or the ratio 

 between the weight of the oxygen contained in the carbon dioxide pro- 

 duced and the weight of the oxygen consumed amounting on the aver- 

 age to 0-9. In this connection it may be mentioned that the rabbit con- 

 sumes on the average the same amount of oxygen and produces the 

 same amount of carbon dioxide whether the gas breathed, be the 

 atmosphere as under ordinary circumstances, or pure oxygen as in 

 the case of the animal being placed within the chamber of the 

 respiratory apparatus. As the respiratory jjrocess in man does not 

 differ from that of the rabbit, at least in its chemical aspects, there 

 is no reason to suppose that any more oxygen would be consumed 

 bv man if breathed alone ihan when breathed as mixed with nitro- 

 gen as obtains in the breathing of ordinary air. Notwithstanding 

 that the experiments with the rabbits were performed at different 

 seasons of the year, at different hours of the day or night, that food 

 was or was not eaten, that in some instances the animals were more 

 lively and active than in others, in a word, that the conditions in 

 general varied considerably, nevertheless, it will be seen that the 

 respiratory quotient varied but little in the different experiments. 



It may be mentioned that the respiratory quotient as given by Reg- 

 nault & Reiset, Rauber, Colosanti, Richet, Regnard and others dif- 

 fers but little from that obtained by the authors. Attention is also 

 called to the fact of the consumption of oxygen and production of 

 carbon dioxide being increased by the taking of food — example 6 

 as compared with example 12 offers the only exception. The ani- 

 mal in the former case, however, weighed more than in the latter. 



Inasmuch as in their next communication the authors propose to 

 give a detailed account of their observations upon the respiration of 

 monkeys as studied by means of the Voit apparatus, attention is 

 simply called to the fact that the respiratory quotient (Exps. 14, 

 15) differs but little, if at all, from that of the rabbit. With refer- 




44 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



ence to the experiments with the pigeons (Exps. 16, 17) apart from 

 the fact (of little significance) that one experiment was performed in 

 May and the other in October it should be mentioned that in the first 

 instance the pigeons were fed and were much more active than in the 

 second which accounts for the weight of the oxygen consumed and car- 

 bon dioxide produced being so much greater in the former case than 

 in the latter, the respiratory quotient being 0'8. The apparatus made 

 use of by the authors in the investigations just described is not well 

 adapted to the study of respiration as obtained in the lower verte- 

 brata, reptilia, batrachia and invertebrata. Nevertheless, the re- 

 sults of an experiment (Exp. 18) with a turtle (Pseudemys mobil- 

 ensis) are oflfered as illustrating how slowly oxygen is consumed and 

 carbon dioxide is produced in such animals, the respiratory quo- 

 tient, however, being the same as in the mammalia. 




1891.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 45 



NOTES ON A COLLECTION OF SHELLS FROM SOUTHERN MEXICO. 

 BY FRANK C. BAKER. 



The following notes are based upon collections made by the 

 Expedition which went from the Academy of Natural Sciences un- 

 der the charge of Prof Angelo Heilprin in the early part of 1890. 

 The geographical positions of the localities visited are as follows : 



Silam, situated on the northern coast of Yucatan on the Gulf of 

 Mexico ; Progreso, on the northern coast of Yucatan about fifty 

 miles west of Silam ; Campeche, on the western coast of Yucatan on 

 the Gulf of Campeche; and Vera Cruz, on the southeastern coast of 

 Mexico on the Gulf of Campeche. All of these localities are situ- 

 ated between the 19th and 22nd degrees of north latitude. 



Most of the specimens collected were beach shells, although some 

 dredging was done at Progreso, and more or less littoral collecting 

 was done at all the localities visited. At Vera Cruz thei-e is a chain 

 of large coral reefs and islands, and upon these reefs in water from 

 four to twenty feet in depth were found living Purpura haemastoma 

 var. Floridana, Conus mus, Coralliophila abbreviata, Sistrtini nodulo- 

 sum, Siphonaria alternata, Area Noce, Area imbrieata and Triton tri- 

 tonis var. nobilis. A serpuloid reef, Punta Gorda, a few miles north 

 of Vera Cruz was found literally paved with living Purpura haemas- 

 toma var. Floridana associated with Siphonaria alternata. Old logs 

 and pieces of timber along the shore were most always found to be 

 covered with Littorina eolumellaris, L. ziczae and a few specimens 

 of Purpura haemastoma var. Floridana and Siphonaria alternata. 

 Many interesting species were found in the sea-wrack thrown upon 

 the shore. The outer reefs at Vera Cruz, as for example the Isle 

 la Verde, were found to be very prolific in lamellibranchs, the 

 genera Area and Lueina being well represented. It will be seen 

 by the following list that many species are reported from localities 

 at a greater or lesser distance south than has previously been 

 reported. Many species hitherto reported from Florida Keys we 

 now know extend as far south as Silam, Campeche or Vera Cruz. 



The collections from Silam were made by Prof. Angelo Heilprin 

 and Mr. J. E. Ives ; those from Progreso by Prof Heilprin, Messrs. 

 J. E. Ives, Witmer Stone and myself; while the shells from Vera 

 Cruz were collected by Prof. Heilprin and myself. The Campeche 

 collection was purchased. 




46 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



The sequence of families and species is uniform with Dr. Ball's 

 List of the Marine INIollusks of the S. E. coast of the U. S. 



PELECYPODA. 



OSTRJEIDJE. 



OsTREA CRISTATA Bom. Vera Cruz ; Progreso. 

 OsTREA FRONS Linne. Vera Cruz. 



ANOMIIDJE. 



Anomia simplex d'Orb. Progreso ; Silam. 



SPONDYLIDJE. 



Plicatula ramosa Lam. Progreso ; Silam. 

 Spondyi.us coccineus Lam. Vera Cruz. 

 Spondylus longitudinalis Lam. Vera Cruz. 



PECTENIDJE. 



Pecten ornatus Lam. Vera Cruz ; Campeche. 

 Pecten mkdius Lam. Vera Cruz. 

 Pecten nucleus Born. Vera Cruz. 



Pecten dislocatus Say. Vera Cruz ; Campeche. Most south- 

 erly locality reported. 



LIMID.ai. 



Lima scabra Born. Vera Cruz. 



AVICULID^. 



AvicuLA brevicauda Desh. Vera Cruz ; Progreso. 

 AvicuLA ala-perdicis Reeve. Progreso. 

 Perna ephippium Lam. Vera Cruz. 

 Pinna muricata Linne. Progreso. 



MYTILID^. 



Mytilus hamatus Say. Vera Cruz. 

 MoDiOLA tulipa Linne. Vera Cruz ; Progreso. 



ARCID^. 



Arca Noae Linne. Vera Cruz ; Progreso ; Silam. Living in 

 10 feet of water among the coral. 

 Arca imbricata Brug. Vera Cruz ; Progreso ; Silam. 

 Arca incongrua Say. Vera Cruz ; Campeche. 

 Arca Floridana Conrad. Vera Cruz. 




1891.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 47 



Arca Deshayesii Hanley. Progreso ; Silam. 

 Arca Adamsi Shiittl. Vera Cruz ; Progreso ; Silam ; Cam- 

 peche, living in coral at Vera Cruz. 

 Arca gradata Bred. Vera Cruz. 

 Arca sp. nov. Vera Cruz. 



CARDITID^. 



Cardita floridana Conrad. Progreso ; Silam. Most south- 

 erly locality reported. Given in Call's list as from Tampa to Key 

 West. 



LUCINID^. 



LuciNA TiGRiNA Linue. Vera Cruz ; Silam. 



LucixA IMBRICATULA Adams. Vera Cruz. 



LuciNA Jamaicensis Spengler. Vera Cruz ; Silam. 



LuciNA Antillarum Reeve. Progreso. 



LuciNA SQUAMOSA Lam. Progreso ; Silam. 



LuciNA DENTATA Wood. Progreso. 



Loripes edentula Linne. Vera Cruz ; Silam. 



CHAMID^. 



Cham A macrophylla Chem. Vera Cruz ; Progreso ; Silam. 

 Chama arcinella Linne. Vera Cruz. 



CARDIID^. 



Cardium magnum Born. Vera Cruz. 



Cardium muricatum Linne. Vera Cruz ; Progreso ; Silam ; 

 Campeche, most southerly locality reported. 



Cardium serratum Linne. Vera Cruz ; Progreso ; Campeche. 

 Cardium isocardia Linne. Silam. 



VENERID^. 



Venus mercenaria Linne. Silam ; Progreso. 



Venus mercenaria Linne var. Mortoni Conrad. Vera Cruz. 

 Most southerly locality yet reported. Dall says : " Hog Island, 

 Va. to Florida Keys." The species has not before been reported 

 south of the United States. 



Venus Listeri Gray. Vera Cruz. 



Venus rostrata Sowb. Vera Cruz ; Silam ; Progreso. 



Venus cancellata Linne. Silam ; Progreso. 



DosiNiA discus Reeve. Vera Cruz. 



DosiNiA elegans Conrad. Progreso. 




48 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



CYRENID^. 



Cyrena Carolinensis Bosc. Vera Cruz. 



Cyrena Floridana Conrad. Silam ; Progreso. No extreme 

 southern range is given by Dr. Dall ; it has been reported from 

 Tampa and West Florida. 



DONACIDJE. 



DoNAX DENTICULATUS Linne. Vera Cruz. 

 DoNAX VARIABILIS Say. Vera Cruz. 

 DoNAX FOSSOR Say. Vera Cruz. 

 Iphigenia Brasiliana Lam. Vera Cruz. 



PSAMMOBIIDJE. 



Tagelus gibbus Spengler. Vera Cruz. 

 AsAPHis DEFLORATA Linne. Vera Cruz. 

 Sanguinolaria rosea Lam. Vera Cruz. 



TELLINIDJE. 



Tellina fausta Solander. Vera Cruz. 

 Tellina li>"eata Turton. Silam. 

 Tellina polita Say. Progreso. 

 Tellina radiata Linne. Campeche. 

 Macoma constricta Brug. Vera Cruz. 



LUTRICOLA interstriata Say. Silam ; Vera Cruz. (=Tellina 

 intastriata Say, Tellina gruneri Phil.) 



SEMELID^. 



Semele reticulata Gmelin. Vera Cruz. 

 Semele orbiculata Sowb. Vera Cruz. 

 Semele variegata Lam. Vera Cruz. 



GNATHODONTID^. 



Gnathodon rostrata Petit. Vera Cruz. Has not before been 

 reported so far south. 



MACTRIDiE. 

 Mactra Brasiliana Lam. Progreso. 



LYONSIIDJE. 

 Lyonsia Beana d'Orb. Progreso. 



PHOLADID^. 

 Pholas Campechiensis Gmelin. Vera Cruz. 




1891.] NATURAL SCIEXCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 49 



SCAPHOPODA. 



DENTALIIDJE. 



Dentalium semistriatum Guilding. Progreso. 

 Cadulus Carolinensis Bush. Vera Cruz. 



GASTROPODA. 



TORNATINID^. 



ToRNATiXA Candei d'Orb. Silam. 



BULLIDJE. 



Bulla striata Brug. Vera Cruz ; Silaru ; Progreso. 

 Haminea succinea Conrad. Progreso. 



SIPHONARIID^. 



Siphoxaria lixeolata d'Orb. Vera Cruz. Found living on 

 •coral in 10-20 feet of water. 



SiPHONARiA alternata Say. Silam. Most southerly locality 

 reported. Quoted by Dall from Bermuda, East and West Florida 

 and Florida Keys. 



TEREBRIDJE. 



Terebra cinerea Gmelin. Vera Cruz. 



Terebra protexta Conrad. Vera Cruz. Most southerly lo- 

 cality reported. 



CONID^. 



Coxus PROTEUS Hwass. Vera Cruz ; Progreso. 

 Coxus Mus Hwass. Vera Cruz ; Campeehe. Living among the 

 coral in Vera Cruz in 20 feet of water. 

 CoNUS Pealii Green. Silaju ; Px-ogreso. 

 Coxus VERRUCOSUS Hwass. Campeehe. 



PLEUROTOMID^. 



Drillia fuscescexs Gray. Vei*a Cruz ; Progreso. 

 Drillia coccixata Reeve. Silam. 

 Drillia leucocyma Dall. Silam. 

 Drillia ostrearum Stearns. Progreso. 

 Maxgilia accixcta Mont. Vera Cruz. 



Maxgilia plicata C. B. Adams. Silam ; Progreso, (=" plicosa 

 C. B. Ad." Dall's List.) Most southerly locality reported. 




50 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



CANCELLARIIDJE. 

 Canceelaria reticulata Liune. Vera Cruz. 



OLIVIDiE. 



Oliva litterata Lam. Vera Cruz. Most southerly locality 

 reported. Given in Ball's list as from Hatteras to Key West. 

 Oliyella floralia Duclos, Vera Cruz. 

 Oliyella Verreauxi Duclos. Vera Cruz. 

 Oliyella niyea Gmelin. Silam ; Progreso ; Campeche. 

 Oliyella mutica Say. Progreso. 



MARGINELLID^. 



Marginella lactea Kiener. Verz Cruz ; Campeche. 

 Marginella labiata Val. Silam ; Progreso. 

 Marginella apicina Meuke. Silam ; Progreso ; Campeche. 

 Marginella guttata Dillw. Progreso ; Campeche. 

 Marginella fauna Sowb. Progreso. 

 Marginella succinea Conrad. Progreso. (Young.) 

 Marginella ayena Val. Campeche. 

 Marginella pallida Don. Campeche. 



TURBINELLID^. 



TuRBiNELLA SCOLYMUS Gmelin. Progreso. (young.) 



MITRID^. 

 MiTRA GRANULOSA Lam. Vera Cruz. 



FASCIOLARIIDJE. 



Fasciolaria tulipa Linne. Vera Cruz ; Silam ; Progreso. 

 Fasciolaria distans Lam. Vera Cruz. 

 FuLGUR peryersa Linn6. Silam ; Progreso. 

 FuLGUR pyrum Dillw. Vera Cruz ; Silam ; Progreso. 

 Melongena melon(jena Linne. Vera Cruz ; Silam ; Progreso. 

 Melongena corona Gmelin. Silam ; Progreso. 

 Latirus cixguliferus Lam. Vera Cruz. 

 Latirus ocellatus Gmelin. Progreso. 



BUCCINID^. 



Pisania pusio Linne. Vera Cruz. 

 PiSANiA tincta Conrad. Vera Cruz. 

 Engina TURBINELLA Kiener. Vera Cruz. 




1891.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 51 



NASSID^. 



Nassa vibex Say. Vera Cruz ; Silam ; Progreso. 

 Nassa acuta Say. Vera Cruz. 



COLUMBELLID^. 



CoLUMBELLA MERCATORiA Lam. Vera Cruz ; Silam ; Campeche. 

 CoLUMBELLA OBESA Adams. Vera Cruz ; Silam ; Progreso. 

 CoLUMBELLA NiTiDA Lam. (=^ nitidulci Sowb.) Vera Cruz; 

 Progreso ; Campeche. 



CoLUMBELLA CRiBRARiA Lam. Vera Cruz ; Campeche. 

 CoLUMBELLA CATENATA Sowb. Vera Cruz. 

 CoLUMBELLA IDALINA Duclos. Vera Cruz. 

 CoLUMBELLA AvARA Say. Silam ; Progreso. 

 CoLUMBELLA LIMATA Say. Silam. 

 CoLUMBELLA LAEVIGATA Liune. Campcche 

 CoLUMBELLA PULCHELLA Kiener. Campeche. 



MURICID^. 



MuREX Salleanus a. Adams. Progeso. 



OciNEBRA cellulosa Conrad. Vera Cruz. 



OciNEBRA EROSUS Brod. Vera Cruz. 



OciNEBRA ALVEATUS Kiener. Vera Cruz. 



Urosalpinx Floridana Conrad. Progreso. 



Purpura patula Linne. Vera Cruz, living. 



Purpura h.emastoma Linne var. Floridana Conrad. Vera 

 Cruz. On the reefs at low water in great quantities. 



Purpura h.emastoma Linne var. undata Lam. Vera Cruz. 



Purpura deltoidea Lam. Vera Cruz. 



RiciNULA NODULOSA C. B. Adams. Vera Cruz. Living among 

 coral. 



RiciNULA PARVA Rceve. Vera Cruz. 



Coralliophila abbreviata Lam. Vera Cruz. (^ galea 

 Chem., plicata Wood.) Found in great quantities on the corals 

 Madrepora prolif era Ijam., M. palmata Lam. The young shell is 

 known as C. plicata Wood. 



SCALID^. 



ScALA TENUIS Sowb. Vera Cruz. 

 ScALA VENOSA Sowb. Vera Cruz. 

 ScALA clathrus Linne. Vera Cruz. 

 ScALA GRADATELLA Morch. Vera Cruz. 




52 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



ScALA HuMPHREYSii Kieiier. (==Sayana Dall) Campeche. Most 

 southerly locality reported. 



JANTHINIDJE. 

 Jaxthina feagilis Lam. Vera Cruz. (;=co»i?m{m's Lam.) 



EULIMIDJE. 

 EuLiMA Jamaicensis C. B. Adams. Vera Cruz ; Silam. 



PYRAMIDELLIDJE. 

 Pyeamidella conica C. B. Adams. Vera Cruz, 



TRITONIIDJE. 



DiSTORSio CANCELLINUS Lam. Vera Cruz. (^=Distortrix re- 

 ticulata Link, of Ball's list.) 



Triton tritonis Linue, var. nobilis Conrad. Vera Cruz. Liv- 

 ing in 20-30 feet of water. 



Triton tuberosus Lam. Vera Cruz. 



Triton chlorostomus Lara. Vera Cruz. 



Triton pileare Lam. Vera Cruz. 



Ranella affinis Brod. Vera Cruz. 



CASSIDIDJE. 



Cassis testiculus Linne. Vera Cruz. 



Cassis sulcosa Born, var. inflata Shaw. Vera Cruz. 



DOLIID^. 



DoLiUM PEEDix Linne. Vera Cruz. 

 Pyrula papyratia Say. Silam ; Progreso. 



CYPRJEID^. 



Cypr.ea exanthema Linne. Vera Cruz. 



Cypr.ea ciNi:REA Gmelin. Vera Cruz. 



Cypr.i:a spurca Linne. Vera Cruz. 



Trivia suffusa Gray. Vera Cruz ; Progreso ; Campeche. 



Teivia pediculus Linne. Progreso , Campeche. 



Erato Maugeri.e Gray. Progreso ; Vera Cruz. 



STROMBID^. 



Strombus bituberculatus Lam. Vera Cruz ; Silam. 

 Strombus pugilis Linne. Vera Cruz. 

 Strombus gigas Linne. Progreso. 




1891.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 53 



TRIFORID^. 



Trifokis decoratus C. B. Ad. Vera Cruz. 

 Triforis turristhom.e d'Orb. Vera Cruz. 



CERITHIOPSIDJE. 



Seila terebralis C. B. Adams. Vera Cruz. 

 Cerithiopsis subulata Montg. Vera Cruz. 

 Cerithiopsis punctatum Linne. Progreso. 



CERITHIID^. 



BiTTiuM VARiUM Pff. Silam ; Progreso. 

 Cerithium eburneum Brug. Vera Cruz ; Silam ; Progreso. 

 Cerithium litteratum Born. Vera Cruz ; Progreso. 

 Cerithium ferrugineum Say, var. versicolor C B. Adams. 

 Vera Cruz ; Silam. 



Cerithidea iostoma Pfr. Progreso ; Silam. 



PLANAXID^. 



Planaxis nucleus AVood. Vera Cruz. 

 Planaxis lineatus DaCosta. Vera Cruz. 



MODULID^. 



Modulus Floridanus Conrad. Vera Cruz ; Silam. 

 Modulus lenticularis Chem. Vera Cruz ; Silam ; Progreso. 



CAECIDJE. 



Cecum Floridanum Stimp. Silam. 

 C^CUM NiTiDUM Stimp. Silam ; Progreso. 



VERMETID-SI. 

 Vermicularia spirata Philippi, var. radicula Stimp. Silam ; 

 Vera Cruz ; Progreso. 



TURRITELLID^. 

 Turritella yiridaria Dall. Vera Cruz. 

 LITTORINID^. 



LiTTORiNA ziczAC Dillw. Vera Cruz. 

 Littorina columellaris d'Orb. Vera Cruz. 



LITIOPID^. 

 LiTioPA MELANURA C. B. Ad. Silam ; Vera Cruz. 




54 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



SOLARIID^. 



Solarium granulatum Lam. Vera Cruz. 

 ToRiNiA CYLINDRICA Gmeliii. Vera Cruz. 

 ToRiNiA DELPHiNULOiDEs d'Orb. Vera Cruz. 

 ToRiNiA BisuLCATA d'Orb. Vera Cruz. 



RISSOIDJE. 



RissoiNA Chesnelii Michaud. Vera Cruz; Silam ; Progreso. 

 RissoiNA FENESTRATA Schwartz. Vera Cruz. 



TRUNCATELLIDJE. 



Truncatella Carib.eexsis Sowb. Silam. 

 CALYPTRiEIDJE. 



Crucibulum verrucosum Reeve. Progreso. 

 Crepidula fornicata Linne. Vera Cruz ; Progreso ; Silam. 

 Crepidula aculeata Gmelin. Vera Cruz ; Silam ; Progreso. 

 Found living among coral at Vera Cruz. 

 Crepidula plana Say. Progreso. 



XENOPHORID^. 



Xenophora conchyliopiiora Born. Vera Cruz. 

 NATICIDJE. 



Natica canrena Lam. Vera Cruz ; Progreso ; Campeclie. 

 Natica lactea Guilding. Vera Cruz. 

 Natica duplicata Say. (Young) Vera Cruz. 

 Natica mamillaris Lam. (=bru7inea Link). Vera Cruz. 

 Living in the sand north of the reefs. 



Sigaretus perspectivus Say. Progreso. 



ACM^ID^. 



AcMJEA confusa Guilding. Vera Cruz. 



PHASIANELLIDJE. 



Phasianella tessellata p. & M. Vera Cruz ; Silam. 



TURBINID^. 



Astralium Olfersi Troschel. Vera Cruz. 

 Astralium longispinum Lam. Silam. 



TROCHID^. 



Chlorostoma fasciatum Born. Vera Cruz; Progreso; Silam. 

 Calliostoma jujubinum. Gmelin. Vera Cruz. 




1891.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 55 



NERITIDiE. 



Nerita fulgurans Gmelin. Vera Cruz. 

 Neritina reclivata Say. Vera Cruz. 

 Neritina viridis Linne. Vera Cruz ; Progreso. 

 Neritina virginea Linue. Silam. 



FISSURELLID^. 



Olyphis alternata Say. Vera Cruz ; Progreso ; Silam. 

 FissuRELLA ROSEA Gmel. Vera Cruz. 



CEPHALOPODA. 



SPIRULIDiE. 

 Spirula Peronii Lam. Vera Cruz. 




56 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



EEMARKS ON THE MURICID3: WITH DESCRIPTIONS OF NEW SPECIES 



OF SHELLS. 



BY FRANK C. BAKER. 



Having recently obtained for my collection several rare species 

 belonging to the ^Nluricidse, and having studied their characters 

 carefully, I take this opportunity of commenting upon them. 



Murex tribulus Lam. 



Murex carbonnieri Jousseaume, described in Le Naturaliste Xo. 

 44, p. 349 and figured in Xouvelles Archives du Museum, 1882, p. 31, 

 plate 4, figures la, Ih, is a color variety of M. tribulus, character- 

 ized by chestnut dots on the spiral lirse. I have in my collection a 

 specimen which corresponds in every respect with Jousseaume's fig- 

 ures. There are on the body-whorl six principal lirse, with fine lines 

 between, all punctate with chestnut ; the whorls are distinctly 

 shouldered, and the apex is identical with that of tribulus. In 

 the collection of the Academy of Natural Sciences there is a suite of 

 tribulus which shows the gradations from the typical form to the 

 variety carbonnieri. I do not consider it distinct even as a variety. 

 Murex haustellum Linne var. longicaudus Baker. 



I propose the above name for a variety of M. haustelhon having 

 an exceedingly long canal and short body-whorl. In the variety 

 the canal is two-thirds the length of the entire shell while in the 

 typical haustellum the canal occupies a half of the length ; besides 

 this, the variety is much smaller than the typical form being only 

 52 mm. in length, while a fair sized typical haustellum is 100 mill, 

 or more. I have seen three specimens of this form one of which is 

 in the collection of the Academy of Natural Sciences and two are in 

 my own collection. They show* little or no variation. They are 

 from the Red Sea. 

 Murex tumulosus Sowerby. 



This curious form has been considered by Mr. Tryon and other 

 authors to be a synonymy of M. cornutus. Mr. Tryon remarks in 

 his Manual of Conchology, vol. 2, p. 98 " Is M. tumulosus a hybrid ? " 

 I have recently obtained a specimen of this species and do not 

 hesitate for a moment in considering it a synonym of 31. cornutus 

 Linne. 




1891.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 57 



There are specimens of cornutus in the collection of the Academy 

 which are almost identical with it. The sculpture, number of varices 

 and whorls are identical in both species. Both have a straight canal 

 differing in this respect from 31. brandarU which has a more or less 

 crooked canal. I do not consider tumulo.ms a hybrid but a young 

 form of eornutus. The species is well figured in Sowerby's Thes- 

 aurus Conchyliorum, vol. 4, Murex, plate 18, figure 168. It was de- 

 scribed in Proc. Zool. Society, 1840, p. 144, and first figured in 

 Sowerby's Conchological Illustrations, Catalogue of Murex, figure 

 71. The locality, unfortunately, is unknown. 

 Murex brandaris Linne. 



M. Locard has described, in Ann. Soc. Linn. Lyons, 1885, p. 219, 

 two species of this group under the names trispinoms and hrandari- 

 f or mis. 



The first species, trispinosus, will stand as a good variety but noth- 

 ing more. Brandarijormis is founded upon specimens destitute of 

 spines and must become a synonym of brandaris, as I have speci- 

 mens which will at once connect it with the parent form. The vari- 

 ety may be described as follows : 

 M. brandaris L. var. trispinosus Locard. 



Shell club-shaped as in typical brandaris; whorls 5-G, varices 

 nine, three spines to a varix ; one on, one above and one below 

 the periphery ; one row of spines on the canal ; color yellowish 

 running into chestnut on the canal and spines and dashed with the 

 same color in many places. 



Alt. 65 mill., diam. 40 mill. Aperture (excluding canal) alt. 25 

 mill., diam. 15 mill. 



The principal difference of this variety from the typical M. brand- 

 aris is in the possession of the three rows of spines, and in its dark 

 chestnut color. This variety has also been named trifariospinosa by 

 Chemnitz whose name should have priority over trispinosus Locard. 



Ocinebra Pilsbryana Baker. 



Shell small, fusiform, solid, with about six whorls ; spire rather 

 acute, suture scarcely impressed ; sculpture of longitudinal ribs and 

 spiral lirse ; there are nine longitudinal plicae on the last w^horl, some- 

 what strong, rounded, raised into four elongate ridges by the stronger 

 spiral lirse. Spiral lirse twenty-seven in number, strong, scabrous; 

 aperture elongate oval, about half the length of the entire shell, 

 outer lip rounded, with seven strong spiral lirse within ; margin 




58 PROCEEDINGS OF THE A.CADEMY OF [1891. 



slightly crenulate iu some specimens and nearly simi)le iu others ; 

 interior of aperture porcelain-white; columella arcuate, smooth with 

 a slight tendency toward purple iu some specimens ; canal short, 

 open, refiexed ; umbilicus none, but there is a furrow in its place, 

 bounded by a fasciole ; color cinereous, overlaid by a reddish -brown 

 epidermis. 



Alt. 17, diani. 10 mill. Aperture (excluding canal) alt. 7, diam. 

 4 mill 



Habitat, Ceylon. 



This species has features recalling the genera Trophoii, Urosalpinx 

 and SiMrum, but its right place in, I think, is in Ocinebra. There 

 is no shell known to me with which to compare it. A distinguishing 

 feature is the strong, scabrous spiral liration, and the absence of 

 any interliral lirulse. 



Ricinula (Sistrum) rugosoplicata Baker. 



Shell fusiform, rather .solid, with about 5-6 whorls ; spire acute, 

 nucleus broken, suture scarcely impressed ; there are twelve longi- 

 tudinal cost^e on the last whorl crossed by about fifteen alternating 

 stronger and weaker spiral lines, which cut the surface of the shell 

 into large, rough knobs or plications ; aperture elongate oval, con- 

 siderably le.ss than half the length of the entire shell ; outer lip 

 rounded, with its edge scalloped by the sj)iral lirae and with nodules 

 within ; columella arcuate, smooth, with three small tubercles near 

 the anterior canal ; canal short, open, rather wide, a little deflected 

 to the left; umbilicus none, but there is a little chink in its place ; 

 color of shell black under a cinereous epidermis. 



Alt. 12, diam. 5 mill. Aperture (excluding canal) alt. 4, diam. 

 2 mill. 



Habitat, Turtle Bay, Lower California. 



This species is separated from Ricinula Jerruginea Reeve, its near- 

 est ally, by the nodules of the latter species being larger and less 

 numerous. The aperture in ferruginea is much larger and more 

 elongate ; the spire is shorter and the canal more open. The longi- 

 tudinal ribs oi ferruginea are seven in number while those of rugoso- 

 plicata are twelve iu number ; the spiral lira of ferruginea are more 

 numerous and not so coarse as in rugosoplicata. 



This pretty little shell was found in a collection recently pur- 

 chased by the Conchological Section of the Academy of Natural 

 Sciences from ]\Ir. Henry Hem2:)hill. It is wholly distinct from any 

 species of Ricinula or Sistrum yet described. 




1891.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 59 



Concholepas Peruvianus Lam. 



In the AnnalesdeMalacologie, vol.2, 1884-86, p. 261, M. Mabille 

 has published a papei* entitled "Etude Monographique du Genre 

 Concholepas," in which he describes, and in some ca.ses figures, a 

 number of supposed new species of this group. 



The species described are as follows : 



Concholepas similis. 



This species is an elongate variety of C. Peruvianus, about three- 

 quarters as broad as long, and very scabrous on the outer surface. 

 The tooth is but slightly produced. 



Concholepas decipiens. 



This shell is a little more rounded than the typical form with the 

 apex nearer the margin. The surface sculpture is not as strong as 

 in shnilis. 

 Concholepas granosus. 



Founded upon specimens with a granose texture. 

 Concholepas densistriatus. 



Founded upon specimens with dense and squamose sculpture. 

 Concholepas rhombicus, splendens, verrucundus, Patagonicus. 



These names are founded upon variations of form and sculpture, 

 all of which run into the parent form Peruvianus. 



On page 280 of the same paper M. ^Mabille characterizes the 

 genus Charonia, the type and only species being Concholepas 

 Kieneri Gay, a tertiary fossil of Chili. The species, Kieneri, was 

 described by Gay in the Historia de Chile, Zoologia, vol. 8, p. 203, 

 and figured in the large folio atlas accompanying the work, Conchy- 

 liologia, No. 3, fig. 4. The figure differs from the typical Concholepas 

 Peruvianus in having the columellar region free from the spreading 

 callus so characteristic of Peruvianus, and in this respect resembling 

 young forms of the latter species. The columella is much more 

 arcuate than in Perxivianus and the general form of the shell is much 

 like a Purpura. I doubt, however, whether the genus will stand, 

 the differences seeming hardly to be of generic importance. It is 

 a fossil form. 

 Coralliophila galea Chemn. 



Mr. Tryon, Manual of Conchology, vol. 2, p. 207, makes C. 

 plicata Wood the young of galea. I have before me upwards of 

 seventy specimens of this form from well authenticated West Indian 




60 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1891. 



localities and I am of the opinion that plicata is a good species. For 

 comparison I have taken two specimens of equal size (30 mill, alt.)^ 

 and placed the descriptions in parallel columns in order to show to 

 better advantage the principal differences of the two species. 



C. galea Chem, 



Shell rounded, largely umbil- 

 cate, spire short ; whorls four, 

 apex eroded ; sutures distinct 

 but not impressed; sculpture of 

 heavy, scabrous, spiral lines of 

 which there are twenty-five with 

 sometimes an intervening one ; 

 there are also nine scarcely vis- 

 ible, longitudinal folds ; aperture 

 ovate ; outer lip crenulate ; in- 

 ner lip arcuate, smooth ; umbili- 

 cus wide, deep ; inner lip fifteen 

 lirate within ; aperture pinkish 

 or yellowish within ; shell yel- 

 lowish-white externally. Alt. 

 32, diam. 25 mill. Aperture, 

 alt. 22, diam. 10 mill. 



C. plicata Woud. 



Shell more or less cone-shaped, 

 umbilicus nearly closed, spire 

 short ; whorls four, apex eroded ; 

 sutures distinct ; sculpture of 

 heavy scabrous, spiral lines, of 

 thick there are 18-20, three of 

 whichare much larger and heavier 

 than the rest which cut the edge 

 of the outer lip into four scal- 

 lops ; there are ten longitudinal 

 folds ; aperture very elongate ; 

 outer lip crenulate and scalloped 

 by the spiral lirse; inner lip 

 slightly arcuate, smooth ; umbil- 

 icus scarcely visible ; inner lip 

 very slightly lirate within ; aper- 

 ture very deep purple within 

 sometimes shading to greenish ; 

 shell cinereous, sometimes cov- 

 ered with a green coating with- 

 out. Alt. 28, diam. 17 mill. 

 Aperture, alt. 20, diam. 9 mill. 

 I have collected plicata in large quantities at Vera Cruz, Mexico,, 

 from the coral reefs, and have never seen a galea among them, 

 although special search was carried on for them. I have specimens 

 of both species from the following localities : St. Thomas, W. I. ; 

 Bahamas ; St. Croix ; Key AYest, Fla. ; Vera Cruz (plicata only) ; 

 Little Cayman, W. I. (collected by C. J. Maynard). This group of 

 shells is one in which great specific variation is likely to occur, on 

 account of their parasitic habit, and great allowance must be made 

 in their determination from this fact ; but the species under consid- 

 eration seem to me to be entirely distinct from one another and, 

 although I have examined over seventy specimens, yet I am not 

 able to place them together. 




1801.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 61 



Engina Harveyana Baker. 



Shell turbinate, solid, straw-colored with a white band just below 

 the peripheiy. Whorls 4 +, (the tip in the specimen is broken oft) 

 rounded, crossed by longitudinal costse and spiral line; there are 

 seven large, rounded, strongish longitudinal costse which are crossed 

 by ten strong, rounded spiral lirse, with a finer line between ; these 

 spiral lines in crossing the costse cut them into large, quadrate 

 nodules; aperture very elongate, about half the length of the entire 

 shell; outer lip thickened, with seven denticles upon the inside, the 

 tliree central ones occupying a small callus in the center of the 

 lip ; inner lip provided with three faint tubercles near the lower 

 end, and a single large tubercle near the posterior end of the aper- 

 ture; there is a slight callus over the columella; aperture pinkish 

 within; canal short, open; umbilicus none; tubercles lighter than 

 the ground color; the interlinear lines reddish-brown; there is a 

 light band just below the periphery on the last whorl. 



Alt. 12, diam. 8 mill. Aperture alt. 6, diam. 2 mill. 



Habitat, West Coast of Africa. 



This species is separated from Engina corallina Kiener by the 

 outer lip being more thickened and the three central denticles being 

 placed upon a callus instead of directly upon the outer lip as in the 

 first species. The coloration is entirely different from that of corallina 

 being rosy with black lines over the central tubercles, the tips of the 

 tubercles being straw colored and there is a white band below the 

 periphery. There are longitudinal costse crossed by thirteen spiral 

 lines in corallina. The length of corallina is 20 mill, while that of 

 Harveyana is only 12. 



This species is named in honor of Prof. F. L. Harvey of Orono, 

 INIaine from whom the specimens were received. 




62 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



AN ATTEMPT TO ILLUSTKATE SOME OF THE PRIMARY LAWS OF ME- 

 CHANICAL EVOLUTION. 



BY JOHX A. RYDEK. 



The object of the present communication is mainly to exhibit a 

 piece of apparatus intended to illustrate, in a concrete form, the 

 operation of certain physical forces in the production of a body 

 which api)roximates the form of that of certain free-swimming 

 monads. While the necessity for such experiments has been 

 apparent to me for several years, in order to test certain a priori 

 conclusions arrived at in the contemplation of the morj)hological 

 data in our possession in respect to the Protozoa, the difficulty in 

 the way of their trial was the contrivance of the proper kind of 

 apparatus. After a number of fruitless experiments, Avhich it is 

 needless to describe, a very simple form of apparatus was found 

 successful. This device is now described and figured. It serves to 

 show some of the apparent conditions under which a heavy fluid, 

 Avith a certain specific viscosity or cohesiveness, may, when made to 

 fall through another highly viscous fluid medium, so alter the shape 

 of the former, when in large drops, as to assume somewhat the 

 figure of certain living monadiform organisms. 



Certain a priori reasons had long existed in the writer's mind to 

 suggest these experiments, and, it may be added, the remarkable 

 experimental results obtained by Plateau, Quincke, Roux, Berthold 

 and Biitschli, in allied fields of inquiry, only served to quicken his 

 interest in what had always seemed worth attempting, but which, 

 for want of the proper means, had hitherto eluded the application 

 of direct experimental verification. 



The problem may be thus stated : It was assumed that living 

 matter is viscous, and exhibits a less prompt capacity to change its 

 form than Avater, when in the form of drops. The plasmodia of 

 Myxomycetes, and the behavior of various amreboid forms, illustrate 

 this part of our statement. It was further assumed that the pri- 

 maeval forms of living things were more or less markedly monadi- 

 form, as is shown by the flagellula stage of Frotomyxa, as well as 

 the male or primordial condition^ of the germs of the great ma- 

 jority of all multicellular types, and the shapes of the lowest exist- 

 ing forms. Water itself is a fluid body with a certain degree of 



1 The origin of sex through cumulative integration, etc. Proc. Am. Philos. 

 See, XXVIII, 1890, pp. 109-159. 




1891.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 63 



viscosity. We have, then, in the motion of the simj^lest of organ- 

 isms, tlie apparent condition of a viscous body, propelled bv an 

 energy generated within its own substance, acting as a moving force, 

 and driying it through a less viscous fluid — water. 



The application of energy, as a moving force to a viscous an(^ 

 fluid body moving through water or other fluid, was the difliculty 

 which was confronted from the first. Eyen with the precautious 

 which have been taken, it may be that in the present experiment 

 serious defects of method may have been overlooked. Ho\vever, 

 the way in which the initial moving force was obtained was simply 

 to use the gravity of the heavier body to propel it through the 

 viscous medium, and to watch and see what the result Avould be. 

 It was assumed that the conditions as subsisting between the lowest 

 Hying matter and its medium, Avater, could be in a considerable 

 degree approximated, and it was confidently expected that there 

 would be certain definite changes of figure which could be [ire- 

 dicted as following from the inter-action of the motion of large 

 drops of a heavy fluid moving through a viscous medium, both 

 being homogeneous. These expectations were realized, so far as is 

 illu.«trated by the apparatus here described. 



The expectation was, reasoning from cause to effect, that drops of 

 the heavier fluid, moving under the influence of gravity, at a certain 

 velocity, through a viscous medium, would be drawn out at least 

 into an oval or oblong figure, such as is met \vith in certain proto- 

 zoa. The actual experiment, however, show^ed in addition, that if 

 a heavy fluid, such as mercury, was used, and allowed to drop 

 through a very thick, syrupy solution of silicate of soda or soluble 

 glass, enclosed in a test-tube, the drops of mercury, if large enough 

 to fall Avith sufficient velocity, were not only elongated in the 

 direction in which they fell, but were also drawn out at the upper 

 pole, or that opposite the direction of motion, so that the whole 

 drop rudely simulated the figure of a monad with a single posterior 

 flagellum or tail. While such an artificial form, produced as the 

 consequence of the definite interaction of certain forces, such as 

 resistance, cohesion and friction, generated between two substances 

 of known qualities, cannot, of course, fail to be suggestive, the 

 writer does not mean to imply that the problem of the genesis of 

 the figures or .shapes of all monadiform organism is thus solved. 

 It is only in the way of a suggestion toward rendering palpable the 

 action of some of the forces of nature, Avhich have had to do with 

 giving a definite form to some of the loAvest and most numerous of 




64 PROCEEBINOS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



liviui,^ beings, that the experiment was undertaken. If previous 

 experiments of the writer had utterly foiled, there was no reason 

 why, by varying the conditions and means used, that some interest- 

 ing results should not be obtained, as the sequel proves. 



Berthold has conclusively shown that a mass of plasma, such as 

 is found in an amoeba, would, for physical reasons, tend to be 

 elongated in the direction of its own motion, such as is actually 

 observed to be the case. The experiment with the large drop of 

 mercury falling through a thick solution of soluble glass, shows 

 that if the friction and cohesion incident to its motion be the same 

 on all sides, and sufficiently great, that the whole mass, instead of 

 flattening in one direction and elongating in another, as in the case 

 of an amoeba creeping over a fixed substratum, there is a general 

 elongation in the direction of motion, resulting in the production 

 of an elongated or pyriform body with a short but sharply attenu- 

 ated flagellum or tail. The flagellum seems to be largely, though 

 probably not wholly, the result of friction, since at its apex the 

 mercury is continually being pulled off in the form of almost im- 

 palpably fine globules, so that in this way the large drop may be 

 slowly disintegrated into a vast number of minute metallic globules. 

 That the figures of many of the lower organisms are affected 

 more or less by such forces as those of cohesion and friction with 

 the circumjacent fluid media in which they live, and by surface- 

 tension, etc., there can scarcely be any doubt. In what ways these 

 forces tend to modify organisms can only be determined by the 

 most laborious and difficult methods of observation and study. 

 Such effects cannot be determined by studying the dead organisms, 

 but must be conducted on the living material, with the help of a 

 great array of comparative measurements taken during active move- 

 ment and rest. 



The experiment here described, and which is represented on a 

 reduced scale of one-half in the accompanying figure, shows a 



; number of interesting facts. 

 If the drops are below a 

 (^ /^ \ /\ A certain size they are spherical ; 



^ d VJ /\ /\if somewhat larger they are 



flattened in the direction of 

 motion ; if still larger, the 

 drops assume the singular mo- 

 nadiform-shape already des- 

 cribed. With these three forms and sizes of drops or metallic 




1891.] NATUKAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 65 



globules there is associated a progi-essive acceleration of motion due 

 to the gradually increased gravity of the individual drops, and 

 consequently increased friction and cohesion of the larger surfoce 

 of the larger drops with the viscous medium through which they 

 faU. If the attempt were made to represent the law according to 

 which the three forms of drops were produced, it would be necessary 

 to determine the weight or mass of each of the three sizes of drops 

 or globules of mercury, and their rate of motion in a given interval 

 of time. The factors of friction and cohesion would be dependent 

 upon the increase in the area of the surfaces of the three grades 

 of drops. The viscosity of the medium would be the same for 

 all three sizes. These data are measurable, and could be expressed 

 in mathematical formulae. 



The writer is aware that this experiment does not account for 

 flagella at both ends of a monad, such as many bacterial forms 

 show ; nor does it account for the genesis of cilia or pseudopods 

 all over a Protozoan, or for the cilia on an epithelium lining a 

 cavity, or covering a fi-ee surface in one of the higher Metazoa. It 

 is presented only with a view to indicate that experiment in the 

 direction of the artificial simulation of some of the lowest living 

 forms was not without much that is suggestive, even though no 

 definite conclu.«ion could be formulated from such an experiment, 

 except the single one, that the nature, and especially the velocity 

 of the motions of the lowest organisms, through their fluid sur- 

 roundings, has probably had a definite or determinate influence in 

 modifying their shapes so as to develop a major axis. Or where, 

 as in some cases, the body of the monad is attached to the side of a 

 long vibratile flagellum, there is an evident tendency to drag out 

 or lengthen the monad's body in the direction of motion. The re- 

 semblance of the flagellula stage of Protomyxa to our large arti- 

 ficially-produced monadiform drop of mercury moving in a solution 

 of soluble glass is even more striking. 



Furthermore, as a matter of fact, we find, as in Paramceciicm, that 

 a slight spiral torsion of the body causes such a form to rotate 

 while moving in a linear direction, and conformably with its major 

 axis or longest diameter. 



There is, in fact, no evidence to disprove that the major axis of 

 all lower forms, as well as the major axes of higher forms, may not 

 have been at first partly or wholly the result of the direct inter- 

 action of their primitive ancestral types with their surroundings. 




66 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



In this connection, I may mention the planulse of Coelenterata, 

 which are elongated in the direction of their own motions, as well 

 as the gastrulie of sponges and the lowest vertebrates, which are 

 similarly extended in the direction of their principal motions. 

 That such tendencies of configuration were thus, in the first instance^ 

 directly adaptive or directly acquired, there is the greatest pi-ob- 

 ability. Their subsequent transmission through inheritance by un- 

 equal growth along the major and minor axes is equally probable, 

 in that the unequal growth may have been in the first place un- 

 equally stimulated along these axes by variation of stress along 

 them, due to the motion of the organism itself. For stress or 

 resistance from w^ithout, along the longest axis would be less than 

 in the direction of the minor axis, which would constantly tend to 

 be compressed, as the experiments here described testify. There 

 are even facts which support this conclusion in another way. For 

 example, the wild trout has a sharper head and more slender body 

 than the trout reared in ponds and basins under domestication, and 

 the same rule holds in respect of gold-fishes. The correlation of a 

 sharper head and slenderer body is evidently with greater activity 

 and ease of motion, so that the wild form may be regarded as 

 " clipper-built," or like the figure of the famous yacht " Puritan," 

 as compared with an ordinary fair-sailing sloop. These correlations 

 of figure, with proportional powers of motion, are even more 

 marked amongst the families of fishes themselves. The swiftly- 

 swimming sharks, mackerel and herring are the " clipper-built" 

 fishes of the seas ; while the slow Mola, or sun-fish, typifies the living^ 

 but helpless " hulk " sometimes run dow'n and killed by actual 

 collision with vessels. 



It also seems to be a universal law of animal motion, that its 

 direction in free forms is in conformity with the major axis or 

 greatest diameter of an organism, or in the direction of least re- 

 sistance. A cross-section somewhere at right angles to the greatest 

 diameter gives the minor axis. This minor axis interposes the 

 least resistance to motion in a fluid medium. It is also true that 

 the waves of undulatory, vermicular, or vibratory motions always 

 conform in direction to the major axis of an organism. In the 

 simplest form studied by the writer, viz., that occurring in the 

 movements of Trypanosoma Balbiani, the intestinal parasite of the 

 oyster, this undulatory motion is propagated alternately from op- 

 posite ends of the fusiform body of the animal. The result is that 




1891. J NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELnriA. 67 



the direction of the motions of the creature are reversed as often as 

 the direction of the vibrations or undulations of the body is re- 

 versed, as must result from the well-known laws of wave-motion. 



The assumption of the undulatory or vibratory method of loco- 

 motion, according to the laws of wave-motion, as in fishes, entails 

 the necessary conformity of the longest or major axis with the di- 

 rection of motion. No other direction of progressive motion fol- 

 lowing from the undulations of an elongated body is conceivable, 

 as seen in the case of Trypanosoma. The direction of the motions 

 of a vast majority of animals is therefore determined according to 

 the physical laws, the operations of which we have just been tracing, 

 while it has been equally well shown in the experiment presented 

 that an energy, generated within the organisms, and dissipated in 

 the form of motion, must always tend to elongate such an organism 

 moving in a fluid, in conformity with the well-known laws of friction 

 and cohesion, to which a soft, viscous, primitive organism must have 

 been exposed during its motions through such a fluid medium. 



The energy expended in molar or mass-motion was, therefore, 

 partly dissipated at one time in giving a figure to the organism, as 

 follows from known and empirically demonstrable laws of the 

 motion of viscous bodies in fluids. We may, therefore, literally 

 assert, Avith Lamarck, that organisms have, through their own 

 motions, tended to shape and modify themselves. And it may be 

 added, there is no evidence at present to show that such laws domi- 

 nating similar forces are not active at the present moment, and that 

 mechanical evolution is now in progress. The Lamarckian and 

 Darwinian hypotheses are therefore reconcilable with the doctrine 

 of the conservation of energy — the so-called Xeo-Darwinian doc- 

 trine is not, and is therefore false. The first-named hypotheses 

 thus lend themselves to an explanation of the genesis of variations 

 which the latter does not, since its most strongly-expressed tenet 

 is that acquired characters cannot be inherited. (Acquired only as 

 here supposed, viz., through the expenditure of energy.) 



Another effect of the undulatory motion of living bodies, along 

 their major axes, is, that if they move freely in a dense medium, 

 such as water, they tend to be flattened, especially at the ends, and 

 at right angles to the plane in which the undulatory or wave- 

 motions of the body are propagated. This is seen first of all in 

 monadiform organisms themselves, and their flagella or propelling 

 organs, which are flattened, as is shown by successful cross-sections 




68 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1801. 



of such minute structures. This lateral flattening, due to lateral 

 undulatory motion, is also illustrated by the Hydrophidse amongst 

 snakes, in which their marine swimming habits have developed a 

 vertically-flattened tail in a series of types which are ancestrally 

 allied to land forms amongst the Elapidte. It is further illustrated 

 in fishes in which the flattening has expressed itself in the develop- 

 ment of vertical fin-folds and fins. In Sagitta, where the undula- 

 tions of the body are in a vertical plane, and not lateral, as in fislies, 

 the fins are flattened horizontally. 



The further consequences of this process, under the stress of 

 still further modifying conditions, may be traced in the origin of 

 heterocercy in fishes, as may be illustrated by means of a paper 

 model vibrated from side to side in a dish of water. If the lower 

 caudal lobe is widened, as it probably was by energetic sculling 

 strokes of the tail in struggling to get to the surface, there must 

 result an upward flexure of the axis of the tail, resulting in the 

 morphological complication seen to-day in diverse groups of fishes 

 Avhich have no jiossible genetic connection with each other, as is 

 proved by the structure of the tails of these several forms. Since 

 there cannot be any possible genetic connection between Selachians 

 and Teleostomes, or of the latter with the sturgeons or Chinueroids, 

 the heterocercal conditions of these forms must have arisen inde- 

 pendently, and as a consequence of the same physical causes acting 

 independently and in the same way for each group.^ The fracture 

 of the caudal rays of the Salnionoids and Clupeoids follows con- 

 formably with the laws of the undulations of the tail in a dense 

 medium.- 



Still other consequences of moticm in differentiating structure 

 may be traced, such as the correspondence of the number of muscle- 

 plates with the number of vertical rows of scales, as I have lately 

 found in certain Clupeoids. This is also true of the vertebral 

 column and the vertebral centra, whose biconcave bodies in lower 

 types are a marvellous expedient, rendering continuous growth and 

 concomitant functional activity possible. Their form has not the 

 remotest relation to any arrangement for strength to be compared 

 Avith tlie trusses and beams of a system of cantilevers, as absurdly 



1 On the Morphology and Evolution of the Tails of Osseous Fishes. Proc. Am. Ass. 

 Adv. of Science, XXXIII, 1884, pp. 532, 533. 



2 Proofs of the effects of habitual use in the modification of animal organisms 

 Proc. Am. Philos. Soc. XXVI, 1889. 




1891.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 69 



suggested by Prof. Banleleben.' Xotwithstunding their bicon- 

 cavity, the vertebrse of the salmon show undoubted evidence of 

 conforming to the shape demanded of them in executing the lateral 

 undulatory movements of the body. In the Cetacea, where the.se 

 undulations are vertical, the conformation of the caudual vertebrae 

 is precisely the reverse of what it is in the salmon. 



Farther research will undoubtedly disclose farther evidence of 

 the forward displacement of the vertical and paired fins of fishes. 

 This displacement may, with absolute certainty, be traced to the 

 manner in which the vertical fins exercise their functions in certain 

 instances, as in Mola, for example." The continuous tension for- 

 wards on the bases of the dorsal and anal fins, acting like propeller- 

 blades from before backwards, has conspired to produce such a 

 result only too plainly evident in a study of the skeleton. But 

 even this result is to be traced to antecedent modes of motion of 

 the whole body, which were undulatory in character, but which now 

 no longer affect the body itself of this singularly-modified fish. We 

 may, therefore, affirm, that habits, and ultimately functions, have 

 been superposed, leading to the superposition of structures. If 

 this method of procedure is philosophical, the whole fabric of mor- 

 phological method and speculation now rife amongst biologists must 

 be re-cast. For my own part, I have no hesitation in declaring 

 that some of the current methods are destined to end in disappoint- 

 ment. The method is overweighted with morphological details, 

 which have nothing but a morphological significance in the eyes 

 of this newer school of biologists. What such methods may lead 

 to is indicated by papers which have appeared Avithin the year on 

 the origin of vertebrates from crabs and scorpions ! 



No hypothesis of the origin of the limbs yet offered is anything 

 but purely morphological, and by so much is one-sided and defective. 

 None of the hypotheses of the evolution of the limbs link the pal- 

 pable facts of structure with the palpable facts of function, and, 

 above all, with the mechanical and physiological laws, in the widest 

 sense, which that function and structure illustrate. As long as 

 they do nothing more, these hypotheses are a mere conning of data 

 to which no significance can or will be attached by those who ask 

 for more than mere anatomy, except as those data help to illustrate 



1 Beitrage zur Anatomic der Wirbelsaule, 4to, Jena, 1874. (Die Wirbelsaule als 

 Faehwerk. pp. 20-27.) 



- The Swimming Habits of the Sun-fish, Science VI, 1885, pp. 103-104. 




70 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



a philosophy of that science whose barest outlines have scarcely 

 more than been indicated. We may truly say, with Roux, that 

 there is an anatomical discipline of the future which has scarcely 

 yet been developed even in outline. Only here and there has any 

 one been bold enough to declare himself. This new science will 

 not grow as fast as morphology. It will require a different sort of 

 mental equipment than is possessed by the majority of morpholo- 

 gists, most of whom seem to be lost in trivial morphological details, 

 or in framing systems of relations and phylogenies based on purely 

 morphological data, and which are jnore or less happy and valuable 

 as aids in identifying forms. This newer discipline will demand 

 that a structure be turned over and looked at from every conceiv- 

 able standpoint of conditions which have had to do with its genesis. 

 The method is infinitely slow, because it recognizes the fact that 

 structures, functions and conditions are contemporaneous or super- 

 posed ; and to unravel the method of the working of the energy of 

 life as manifested to us in living creatures, through this interwoven 

 trinity of factors, is its object. 




1891.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



71 



NOTE ON THE SOFT PARTS AND DENTITION OF STOMATELLA. 

 BY H. A. PILSBRY. 



In tiie course of my study of Siomutella for the Manual of Concho- 

 locy, I was struck by the apparent diversity of the few animals of differ- 

 ent species described by various observers. It therefore seems de- 

 sirable to describe the only species seen by me in the flesh, and to 

 figure the dentition, heretofore unknown. 



The specimen (No. 60696 of the alcoholic collection of the Acad- 

 emy) is labelled S. Godeffroxji Dkr., Yiti Islands. It seems to be 

 the same as S. Mariei Crosse.^ 



The foot is broad and fleshy, emarginate behind, the sole divided 



longitudinally by an inij)ressed 

 median furrow. Its upper surface 

 is granulate and tuberculate. 

 ^ The muzzle is rather broad, 

 transversely wrinkled, ending in 

 a fiat, oval oral disk, the mouth 

 in the middle. Tentacles stout 

 but tapering. Eyes on short, 



stout peduncles outside and a little above the bases of the tentacles. 

 Epipodial ridge commencing in a short tri- 

 angular lobe behind the right eye-peduncle, 

 the lateral edges of the lobe somewhat up- 

 turned, like a short trough. From this the 

 ejjipodial ridge is rather fieshy and prom- 

 inent along the sides of the foot, and it bears 

 It terminates posteriorly at the operculigerous 

 lobe. In the specimen before me 

 there is no operculum, and the 

 edges of the lobe are upturned, 

 jy--e probably from contraction in alco- 

 WT^,D.l bol. There are two minute frontal 

 lobes between the tentacles, not 

 connected across the " forehead." 



Fig. 3. 



The gill is single, consisting of numerous (about 130) narrow plates, 

 arranged in one series. Anterior third of the plume free. Anus 

 opens on a short papilla. 



1 Vide Manual ot Conchology, xii, p. IB. 



two slender cirri. 




72 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1891. 



The radula shows a marked resembhince to the same organ in the 

 Trochidce. The rhachidian tooth has a broad body, narrowed above, 

 with a distinct, denticulate cusp. The laterals, five on each side, 

 are of rather complicated form, having supporting-wings on their 

 outer edges, or as Troschel would call them, Stutzlamellte. They 

 gradually change in form from the oblique shape shown by the in- 

 ner one, to the more upright position of the fifth or outer lateral. 



Fig. 4 



Note here that the outer lateral is of the same size and structure a& 

 the inner ones, not enlarged or reduced, or modified in form as in 

 so many Rhipidoglossate mollusks. The inner unciuus has a very 

 broad triangular body ; the following ones have the body of the 

 tooth narrower, and in the outer uncini it is still more slender. 

 The cusps of the rhachidian and lateral teeth are denticulate on 

 their edges; those of the inner uncini are smooth, but the outer 

 ones have long serrate cusps. 



Explanation of figures. 

 Figs. 1, 2, three views of animal, the shell removed from the dor- 

 sal and side views, showing the visceral mass (v. yn.), the epipodial 

 ridge (e), etc. Fig. 3 shows the mantle slit open to exhibit the gill 

 (g), anal papilla (a) and left tentacle and eye-peduncle. Also 

 showing the back of the foot (/), with operculigerous lobe (o. L). 

 Fig. 4, dentition. Formula x-5-l-5-x. 




1891.] natural sciexces of philadelphia. 73 



January 18. 

 Dr. Geo. H. Horn in the chair. 

 Twenty-three persons present. 



Papers under the following titles were presented for publication : — 

 On the " Genus Psilorhinus Riippell." By Witmer Stone. 

 " Description of a specimen of Chirolophus polyactocephalus from 

 Vancouver Island." By Ashdown H. Green. 



" Geological Researches in Yucatan." By Prof Angelo Heilprin. 



January 20. 

 Dr. Charles Schaeffer in the chair. 

 Thirty persons present. 



A paper entitled " A Review of the Cretaceous Mammalia" by 

 Henry F. Osborn was presented for publication. 



An hyjjothesis as to the Nature omcI Origin of Germ Force. — Dr. J. 

 Cheston Morris referred to a communication published by him 

 in the Proceedings of the Academy about thirty years ago in which 

 he called attention to the mode of splitting of egg-albumen in diluted 

 solution kept at a warm temperature, giving rise to a body like crea- 

 tin and a ferment possessing properties allied to pepsin. Accident, 

 unfortunately, and press of other work, prevented the completion of 

 the quantitative analysis. But now, in connection with the views 

 recently propounded by Dr. McLaughlin (Texas State Med. Soe. 

 Trans. 1890) as to the explanation of the phenomena of immunity 

 from, and prevention of, contagious and infectious diseases by the 

 law of interference, these views might be again referred to, as illus- 

 trations of the splitting of organic molecules and their results. 



Physical forces are now generally regarded as vibrations or un- 

 dulations produced in matter, but to regard vital force as also vibra- 

 tory is a great step in advance. Its effects are evolution of form, 

 growth, secretion, excretion, reproduction, maintenance of form with 

 change of material ; its conditions, the presence uf liquid plasma, 

 heat, light, oxygen, and a germ, itself the result of union of a germ- 

 cell with a sperm cell. Without all these, we have no life-phenom- 

 ena with them they always ensue. Matter in becoming part of a 

 living body continues to possess all the vibrations which give its 

 special character ; the plasma, be it earth or organic matter, retains 

 its chemical properties, but these are modified bv other vibrations 

 6 




74 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



resulting from this special force. If the law of interference explains 

 many of the phenomena of infectious and contagious diseases, and 

 also the action of many drugs (as for instance that of opium inhib- 

 iting or modifying nerve-vibration), no less does that of transfer- 

 ence explain the origin of the germ. If a cord be stretched between 

 two pillars, and a weight suspended half-way between, and then two 

 other weights similarly suspended half-way between it and the pil- 

 lars, so that motions at right angles may be given to them — e. g. 

 north to south to one, east to west to the other — the central weight 

 will gradually begin to swing and evolve certain figures and curves 

 due to the impulses transferred from the two outer weights. So the 

 union of the contents of the germ-cell and sperm-cell results in the 

 formation of a germ which evolves a form like that of its parents, 

 following their evolution, transmitting in turn its form to its succes- 

 sors, or transmuting it into other forms of motion. Thus all the 

 phenomena of life may be explained on the vibratory hypothesis. 

 Nay, death itself is but the transmutation into other forms of the 

 form so evolved, and becomes as necessary a part of tne whole 

 series of evolutions as birth. 



The permanence of cicatrices is thus explained. Also the appar- 

 ent intelligence with which, from a common plasma, different plants 

 evolve different principles (according to their special vibrations), 

 or different organs take their special nutriment from one common 

 blood, and, as the nerves for instance, give rise to si)ecial vibrations 

 consonant with their special functions. 



In fact we enter thus upon an entirely new field in biology, physi- 

 ology, pathology and therapeutics. Already the results obtained in 

 the studv of variola, syphilis, anthrax, rabies, cholera, and as 

 alleged lately in tuberculosis, may be seen to arrange themselves in 

 accordance with the ])rinciples thus enunciated, as foreshadowed by 

 Dr. McLaughlin, and by Dr. Dixon in his communication to this 

 Academy. 



In reply to a question with regard to suspended animation, con- 

 vulsions, etc.. Dr. ]Morris said that he thought these phenomena 

 were fully in accordance with the vibratory hypothesis and that the 

 latter also offered the only plausible explanation suggested as yet 

 of the well-known periodicitv of life phenomena both in health and 

 disease. 



January 27. 

 Dr. Geo. H. Horn in the chair. 



Thii'ty-two persons present. 



The death on the 22nd inst. of Charles Lennig, a member, was 

 announced. 




1891.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 75 



Rate of Coral Growth. — Prof. Heilprin exhibited a specimen 

 of Porites astrceoides from the Caletta Reef, harbor of Vera Cruz, 

 Mexico, which gave some interesting data regarding the rate of 

 growth of coral structures. The specimen in question was received 

 through Captain J. Powell, Chief of Construction of Piers of the 

 Mexican Railway, and is said by that gentleman to have been re- 

 moved from an anchor which was cast in the autumn of 1885 and 

 drawn in November, 1890. The extreme period of growth is thus 

 somewhat over five years, but naturally it is impossible to state how 

 soon after the casting of the anchor attachment of the polyp was 

 made. The coi'al is a mammillated sheet or crust measuring four 

 inches in longest diameter, and somewhat less than three inches on 

 the shorter diameter. The general thickness of the basal mass is 

 not over i-i inch, although through involution and secondary crus- 

 tage knobs of considerable prominence have been added to the sur- 

 face. Assuming the basal growth as the index of actual develop- 

 ment then tiie annual accretion would be (if we allow full five years 

 for the process) scarcely the 2V of an inch. Observations recently 

 made on other species of corals have yielded somewhat similar re- 

 sults. 



The following were elected members : — Albert P. Brown, M. D., 

 Amos Peaslee Brown, Thomas Hewson Bradford, M. D., Stewardson 

 Brown, Edmund E. Reed Jr., George C. Evans and Mary S. 

 Holmes. 



The following were ordered to be printed : — 




76 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



NEW SPECIES OF FUNGI FROM VARIOUS LOCALITIES. 

 BY J. B. ELLIS AND BENJAMIN M. EVERHART. 



Phyllosticta Lycopodis. 



On leaves of Lycopus Canadensis, London, Canada, Sept., 1889. 

 J. Dearness, 727. Spots amphigenous, thin, white, mottled with dirty 

 gray, finally deciduous and often confluent, 1-3 mm. diam. with a 

 definite, narrow, black border. Perithecia epiphyllous, sublentic- 

 ular, black, pierced above, 80-100 p.. diam. not numerous. Sporules 

 abundant, hyaline, elliptical, with a nucleus in each end, 2'>-S x 



Phyllosticta Petasitidis. 



On leaves oi' Petasites pabnata, London, Canada, Sept., 1889. J. 

 Dearness, 838. Spots orbicular, reddish-brown, sometimes with a 

 whitish center, i-l cm. diam. concentrically wrinkled, margin sub- 

 indefinite. Sporules oblong-elliptical, hyaline, 5-8 x 22-3 //. Pos- 

 sibly an imperfectly developed form of Ascochyta microspora Traill., 

 but we see no septum in the sporules. 



Phyllosticta minutissima. 



On living leaves of Acer glahruvi, Plot Creek Basin, Sioux Co., 

 Nebraska, Aug., 1889. H. J. Webber, 21. Spots amphigenous 

 irregular in outline, suborbicular, 4-9 mm. diam. reddish-brown 

 above Avith a lighter colored shaded border, paler below. Perithecia 

 hypophyllous, minute (75-85 ,«.), globose, numerous, subprominent, 

 filled with minute, subelliptical, hyaline sporules about l2-2 //. long 

 and h !>■■ or less broad. 



Septoria Pteleae. 



On leaves o? Ptelea trifoliata, Racine, Wis., Oct., 1890. (Davis, 

 9057). Spots amphigenous, scattered, small, 1-3 mm., irregular in 

 shape, nearly black, definite but without any distinct border. Peri- 

 thecia amphigenous, scattered, minute, (100-150 /j-.), prominent, 

 papillate. Sporules cylindric-vermiform, nucleate, 1-3-septate, nar- 

 rowed toward one end, hyaline, 35-65 x 3-35 //. 



Septoria nubilosa E. & E. 



On leaves of Helenmm autumnale, Racine, Wis., October, 1890. 

 (Davis, 9056). Differs from S. Helenii E. & E. (J. M. Ill, 87), in 

 the absence of any definite spots, the minute, epiphyllous, prominent 




1891.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 77 



perithecia being collected in orbicular patches 2-I cm. across and 

 darker than the other ])arts of the leaf. Sporules 25-30 x I2-2 ,«., 

 nucleate, narrower at one end. 



Phyllosticta Staphyleae Deamess. 



On living capsules of Staphylea trifolia, London, Canada, Aug., 

 1890. Dearness, No. 16. Spots at first wine color, becoming brown, 

 mostly limited when young by a carmine-red line. Perithecia scat- 

 tered, 90-145 ,'j.. diam., innate, concolorous with the spot at first, 

 at length darker and finally well marked by a ring of raised, light 

 cuticular cells. Sporules oblong-elliptical, hyaline, becoming pale 

 brown, 6-7 x 25-3^ //. 



Phyllosticta Rhei. 



On leaves of rhubarb (Rheum Rhaponticuni) Newfield, X. J., 

 Sept., 1889, and Xew Brunswick, N. J., Aug., 1890. (Halsted.) 

 Spots large (1 cm. or more), reddish-brown, concentrically zoned. 

 Sporules oblong or clavate-oblong or elliptical, 2-3 nucleate, hya- 

 line, 7-12 X 35-4? p.. Some of them slightly constricted in the mid- 

 dle but no septum seen. 



Phyllosticta Parkinsoniae. 



On living leaves of Parkinsonia aculeata, San Antonio, Texas, 

 Dec, 1889- Jan., 1890. Dr. B. F. G. Egeling, No 121. Spots amphi- 

 genous, orbicular, minute (1 mm.) nearly black, with a slightly raised 

 border, becoming reddish brown. Perithecia innate only slightly 

 prominent, depressed-globose, dark, 80-100 /^.. diam. Sporules ellip- 

 tical or oblong-elliptical hyaline, 4-6 x 2 //. 



Phyllosticta Sophorae. 



On living leaves of Sophora speciom, San Antonio, Texas, Dec, 

 1889. Dr. B. F. G. Ecreling. Spots amphigenous, small (about 

 1mm), round, concave on both sides of the leaf, with a narrow raised 

 border, nearly black, becoming reddish-brown, leaf not discolored 

 around them. Perithecia innate, mostly only one on a spot parti- 

 ally erumpent, globose, 100-150 ,'j.. filled with a mass of minute (I2 

 -2? X I ,'/.) sporules. 

 Cornularia ulmicola. 



On outer dead bark of Elm, London, Canada, Dec, 1889. J. 

 Dearness, 1248. Perithecia clavate-cylindrical, black, 5-I nim. 

 high and about 74 //. thick below, enlarged above and 100 ,'j.. thick 

 but acute at the apex, of fibrous texture, the fibres separating above 




78 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



into a dense brush-like head. Sporules enclosed in the swollen head, 

 slender fusoid, pale yellowish, multinucleate becoming multiseptate, 

 70-80 X 3 !J.., ends attenuated and mostly curved in opposite direc- 

 tions, borne on filiform basidia about 35 ji. long. Closely allied to 

 C. hispidula Ell. but differs in its smooth stem with swollen head 

 and rather longer and narrower sporules. 



Sphaeronema sphaeropsoideum. 



On dead liml)s of Fraxinus, London, Canada, Feb., 1889. J. 

 Dearness, 1467. Perithecia scattered, conical, J mm. diam., sunk 

 in the surface of the inner bark and erumpent through the ruptured 

 epidermis, with a subulate slender beak i-l mm. long crowned with 

 a whitish globule of ejected sporules which are oblong, hyaline, 12- 

 20 X 6-8 ,'/., on ])asidia about as long as the sporules and 2»2-3 ;>■. 

 thick. Among the basidia are numerous slender threads (sterile 

 basidia) ? like paraphyses overtopping the sporules. 

 Schizothyrella Hippocastani. 



On bark of (lead Aesculus Hippocastanum, l^ondon, Canada, iNFarch, 

 1890. J. Dearness, 1571. Perithecia subseriately-erumpent, super- 

 ficial, black, globose-tuberculiform, subconfluent or single, when 

 perfect more or less distinctly quadrisulcate. Sporules fasciculate, 

 75-80 //. long, separating above into cylindrical, hyaline, truncate 

 joints 8-10 xli ;j.. The lower part may be considered as a basidium 

 and is of a brownish color. 



Haplosporella seriata E. <t E. 



On bark of Sambticus, London, Canada, May, 1890. Dearness, 

 1661. Perithecia connate, forming a narrow oblong stroma 2 or 

 more mm. long and 1-2 mm. wide, erumpent through the ruptured 

 epidermis, often more or less continuously confluent in narrow strips 

 for several cm. in length. Sporules brown, continuous, 20-25 x 10- 

 12 fj.. 

 Vermicularia Veratrina. 



On half dead leaves of Veratrum viride, Wilmington, Del., June, 

 1890. Commons, 1458. Perithecia irregularly scattered, small (75 

 //. diam.), mostly imperfect above, clothed around the sides with 

 black, erect bristles 70-150 x 4-5 ij.. Sporules fusoid-cylindrical, 

 nucleate, slightly curved at each end, 15-22 x 2j-3 p.. The leaves 

 are soon blackened and killed. 




1891.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 79 



Sphaeropsis ulmicola. 



On dead elm bninche:^, London, Canada, Apr., 1890. Dearne.ss, 

 1581 (b). Peritheeia scattered, minute (1-J mm.), white inside, 

 covered by the epidermis whicli is raised into little pustules but 

 mostly not ruptured. Sporules, yellowish-brown, elliptical or obovate, 

 20-30 X 12-15 //. on stout basidia rather shorter than the sporules. 

 S. ulmi S. & R. has sporules 60-70 //. long. 



Diplodia papillosa. 



On bark of dead Cornus, London, Canada, Feb., 1890. J. Dear- 

 ness. Peritheeia scattered, buried in the bark which is raised into 

 minute papillae over them, minute (1-J mm.). Sporules oblong- 

 elliptical, greeni.sh-yello\v, 1 -septate and slightly constricted, 12-15 

 X 6-7 !>: Apparently the stylosporous stage of DidijmeUa Corni 

 (Sow.), which is found with it. D. mamilhnid Fr. has larger brown 

 spores. 

 Diplodia Linderae. 



On dead limbs of Lindera Benzoin, Newfield, N. J. and London, 

 Canada. Peritheeia scattered, covered by the epidermis or partially 

 erumpent, small, sporules oblong-elliptical, brown, 1-septate and con- 

 stricted, 10-12 X 8-4 //.. Possibly not distinct from D. Harknessii, 

 Cke. 

 Diplodia Dearnessii. 



On dead decorticated stem of wild currant, London, Canada, 

 Feb., 1890. Peritheeia erumpent-superficial, scattered, minute (5 

 mm.), subglobose, sporules narrow-elliptical, brown, 1-septate, 8-10 

 X 32-4 ,'j-. Differs from D. ribicola C. & E. (Grev. V., p. 55) in its 

 much smaller sporules. D. ribicola C. & E. takes precedence of D. 

 Rihis Sacc. which appears, to be the same. 



Leptostromella elastica. 



On leaves of Ficits elastica in a green-house at Knoxville, Tenn., 

 Jan., 1890. Prof. F. L. Scribner. Spots large, dull white, darker 

 around the margin with a' reddish-purple border. Peritheeia epi- 

 phyllous, hysteriiform, l-\ mm. in the longer diam. opening by a 

 longitudinal cleft along the middle. Sporules oblong, hyaline, 2-3 

 nucleate, 12-15 x 4-5 //., on stout, olivaceous basidia 12-15 x 3-4 ,«. 

 Probably the spermogonial stage of some Lophodei'nxium. 



Septoria gummigena. 



On the hardened gum of cherry trees, Wilmington, Del., Dec. 3, 

 1889. A. Commons, 1105. Peritheeia gregarious, black, subovate, 




80 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



soon l)roadly pierced above, about ] mm. diam. Sj^orules filiform, 

 continuous, 30-40 x 1-1 i //. 



Septoria dolichospora. 



On leaves of Solidago latifoHa, London, Canada, Sept., 1889. 

 Dearness, 835. Renders the leaf bullate-rugose with numerous 

 small swellings, convex above and concave below, 1-2 mm. diam. 

 These become white above, generally several contiguous ones becom- 

 ing confluent so as to form a dirty white spot of irregular outline 

 above and of a dark, dirty brown below, the white color spreading 

 finally more or less and appearing also here and there below. Per- 

 ithecia epiphyllous, scattered quite abundantly on the white places, 

 75-100 ,'j.. diam. Sporules 70-110 x I2 ;j.., continuous and not dis- 

 tinctly nucleate, hyaline. Differs from S. solidaginicola, Pk. in the 

 bullate-rugose leaf, more abundant and larger perithecia and much 

 longer sporules. 



Septoria carnea. 



On partly dead leaves of Carex, London, Canada, Sept., 1889. 

 J. Dearness, 805. Perithecia hypophyllous, flesh colored, collapsed 

 when dry, seriate between the nerves of the leaf and forming elon- 

 gated patches, 1-3 cm. long and 2-4 mm. wide. Sporules fusoid, 

 slightly curved, nucleate, acute at the apex, fasciculate, 20-30 x 1 J p.. 

 hyaline. 



Septoria Erechtitis. 



On living leaves of Erechtites hleracifolia, Wilmington, Del., 

 Aug., 1890. Commons, 1536. Spots light-brown, numerous, sub- 

 orbicular or elliptical, or subangular and partly limited by the vein- 

 lets. Perithecia numerous epiphyllous, small, black, erumpent, sub- 

 globose, pierced above. Sporules, 20-30 x IJ a., with several 

 nuclei, nearly straight or rather abruptly l)ent near the middle. 

 Septoria Canadensis Ell. & Davis. 



On Solidago Canadensis, Racine, Wis., May, 1886. Spots amphi- 

 genous, suborbicular, 2-3 mm. diam., rusty-brown becoming paler 

 in the center and surrounded by a shaded purplish border. Peri- 

 thecia minute and inconspicuous, amphigenous but mostly epiphyl- 

 lous. Sporules vermiform-cylindrical, 33-45 x 1^-2 //., nucleate, 

 becoming faintly about 3-septate. In the fresh specimens the septa 

 do not appear, but finally a faint division of the contents of the 

 spore may be discerned. 




1891.] NATURAL SCIEKCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 81 



Septoria albicans. 



On leaves of Saxifraga Pennsylvanica, Genoa Junction, Wis.. May, 

 1890. Dr. J. J. Davis, 9022. Spots orbicular, chestnut-brown, sub- 

 indefinite, 2-4 mm. diam. slightly depressed above and prominent 

 below. Perithecia very minute, 40-50 ,'j-. diara. epiphyllous, crowded 

 in the center of the spots. Sporules filiform, 50-75 x I5 ,'j.., faintly 

 nucleate, hyaline, nearly straight, oozing out and whitening the 

 upper surface of the spots. 



S. Saxifraga Pass, agrees with this in the chax'acter of the spots 

 but is said to have the sporules 17-30 x 3 //. — much shorter and 

 thicker than in the Wisconsin specimens. 



Phleospora reticulata. 



On Lathyrus palustris, London, Canada, Aug., 1890. J. Dear- 

 ness, 156. Spots subquadrate, about 1 mm. diam., mostly marginal, 

 "white w^ith a narrow black margin, numerous and confluent in one 

 large, oblong spot 1-2 x 5 cm., the whole surrounded by a shaded 

 •dark margin. The large spot has a checkered or recticulated 

 look on account of the narrow black lines surrounding the smaller 

 •component spots. Sporules linear, 100-160 x 35-4 //., attenuated 

 towards the ends, 3-6-septate (or more), often constricted at the 

 septa. Perithecia very imperfectly developed, consisting merely of 

 the more or less blackened cells of the surrounding parenchyma. 

 The sporules are abundant and soon erumpent in short, thick, pale, 

 flesh-colored cirrhi. 



Stagonospora Petasitidis. 



On living leaves of Petasites palmata, London, Canada, July, 

 1890. J. Dearness, 1767. Perithecia epiphyllous, scattered hemis- 

 pherical, black, coarsely cellular, smooth, broadly perforated above, 

 about J mm. diam. Sporules clavate-cylindrical, nucleate, becom- 

 ing 3-4-septate, 55-70 x 5-6? /-'.. hyaline. 

 Stagonospora Cyperi Ell. & Tracy. 



On culms of Cyperus cylindrieus, Starkville, Miss., July, 1890. 

 Tracy, 1559. Perithecia minute, globose, crowded, forming pustu- 

 liform groups 1 mm. or more in diam. beneath the cuticle which be- 

 comes brown above them and finally splits open, exposing the 

 tobacco-brown perithecia. Sporules fusoid, hyaline, 12-16 x 25- 

 -3 ;j.., 2-3-nucleate. 




82 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF ' [1891. 



Stagonospora Trifolii. 



On living leaves of Trifolium repens, London, Canada, Aug., 1890. 

 Dearness, 262. On dark brown spots (becoming paler), of consid- 

 erable size and more or less limited by the veinlets of the leaf. Peri- 

 theeia innate, subprominent above, pale. Sporules cylindrical, 2- 

 4-nucleate, 12-20 x 3-4 //., hyaline. 

 Coryneum Paspali. 



On dead culms of Paspalurn platycuule, St. Martinsville, La., Dec, 

 1859. Langlois, 2239. Acervuli scattered, erumpeut, black, ■> mm. 

 diam. Spores oblong cylindrical, brown, 6-9-septate, 50-60 x 10— 

 12 ;j.., on short basidia. 

 Gloeosporium Caryae Ell. X- Dearness. 



On leaves of Carya alba, London, Canada, Sept., 1890. Dear- 

 ness, 319. Spots suborbicular, reddish-brown above, darker below, 

 1-2 cm. in diam. or by confluence more, subindefinitely margined. 

 Acervuli hypo])hyllous, numerous, small, 75-150 //. superficial, 

 brown. Spores allantoid, hyaline, continuous, 7-10 x l2-2 ;>.. 



Glceosporium Celtidis. 



On leaves of Celtis occidentaUs, London, Canada, Sept., 1890. 

 J. Dearness. Spots mostly marginal, more or less continuous along 

 the edge of the leaf, sometimes occupying and killing half the upper 

 part of the leaf and eventually the entire leaf, the dead areas turn- 

 ing dirty brown and being definitely limited by a darker, narrow 

 border, beyond which the leaf often turns yellowish. Acervuli 

 numerous, about 200 //. diam. Spores fusoid-oblong or ovate-oblong, 

 continuous, 10-12 x 4-5//., hyaline, mostly erumpent below in small 

 orange-colored heaps. 

 Gloeosporium lunatum. 



On large (1-3 cm.) orbicular dead spots on living leaves of 

 Opuntia, v/ith Sphaerella Opuntiae E. & E., San Antonio, Texas, 

 Jan., 1889. Dr. B. F. Egeling. Acervuli erumpent, flesh color, 

 numerous. Spores lunate-fusoid, 12-20 x 2-3 ,'j.., mostly a little 

 thicker at one end. Differs from G. Op in d i ae E. &:Y..'m its macuW- 

 colous growth and lunate spores. 

 Gloeosporium saccharinum. 



On \esLxes of Acer sacchariinim, Racine, Wis., June, 1889. Dr. 

 J. J. Davis, 1189. Killing the margin and upper part of the leaves 

 which become brown and drv and are finally entirely destroved. 




1891.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 83 



Acervuli minute, abundant not readily seen. Spores obloug-fusoid, 

 6-7 X H-o ,".., liyaline, continuous. 

 Gloeosporium Canadense. 



J. M. v., p. 153. Dr. Davis sends from Wisconsin a variety of 

 this on leaves of Quercus alba having the spots larger (1 cm. and 

 over), of a brighter color and sometimes confluent over a large part 

 of the leaf. The spores are about the same us in the Canada spec- 

 imens. 

 Gloeosporium ovalisporum. 



On leaves of Priums serotinas, London, Canada, May, 1890. 

 Dearness, 1714. Arcervuli minute, thickly scattered over large 

 dead areas of the leaf which becomes of an ashy-brown, erumpent 

 on both surfaces of the leaf. Spores ovate or lemon-shaped with a 

 slight apiculus at one end, 6-10 x 5-7 ,'j.. Affects the leaves in the 

 same way as G. aridum, E. & H. 

 Cylindrosporium Ziziae. 



On living leaves of Zizia cordata. Racine, Wis., June, 1890. 

 Davis, 9016. Spots amphigenous, subangular, mostly subelongated, 

 small,' 1-1? X 2-3 mm., blackish, limited by the veinlets. Acer- 

 vuli numerous, crowded, small, dark. Spores cylindrical-vermiform, 

 40-60 X 5-6 iJ.., nucleate, becoming 3-6-septate, slightly curved, 

 erumpent in white cirrhi more abundantly on the lower surface of 

 the leaf. 

 Cylindrosporium Dearnessii. 



On leaves of Carpinus Americana, London, Canada, June, 1890. 

 Dearness, 1727. Spots reddish-brown, orbicular, 2-3 mm. diam., 

 the margin a little darker. Acervuli few, crowded in the center of 

 the spots, 100-120 ."■. diam. Spores cylindrical, granular, becoming 

 3-or more-septate, often curved into a semicircle, 35-40 x 2^-3 //., 

 erumpent on both sides of the leaf but especially above, forming a 

 loose, white flocculent mass. 

 Cylindrosporium Cicutae. 



On living leaves of Cicida maculata, London, Canada, Sept., 1889. 

 J. Dearness, 567. Spots dirty brown, amphigenous 1-2 mm. diam. 

 suborbicular, partly limited by the veinlets. Acervuli minute, in- 

 nate, 70-80 p., diam., scarcely visible. Conidia 20-30 x li ,'j.. (ex- 

 ceptionally 35 ,'j.. long), nucleate, nearly .straight, thicker at one end, 

 greenish-hyaline, erumpent mostly on the upper side of the leaf in 




^4 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



minute, white cirrhi. This is quite distinct from Septoria Sii, Desm. 

 which has distinct perithecia and longer sporules. 

 Cylindrosporium CeanotM. 



On leaves of Ceanothus thyrsiflorus, Santa Cruz Mts. near Fulton, 

 Cala., Aug., 1888. Prof. L. M. Underwood. Amphigenous. Acer- 

 vuli large, on small (1-2 mm.), blackish-brown spots which are 

 thickly scattered over the leaves and more or less confluent, paler 

 beneath. Spores vermiform, more or less curved, 1-3-septate, 35-45 

 X 4 ,'/., issuing in compact flesh-colored cirrhi. 

 Marsonia nigricans. 



On leaves of Salix, London, Canada, Sept., 1890. Dearness, 308. 

 Spots amphigenous, nearly black above, becoming more or less 

 whitish, reddish-brown below, indefinitely limited and more or less 

 confluent or sometimes definitely limited, especially above, and mar- 

 gined by a narrow, yellow shaded border. Spots, when not con- 

 fluent, about 2 cm. diam. Acervuli 100-125 /v.. diam., dark-colored, 

 not numerous. Spores clavate-ovate, curved, acute below, with a 

 single septum near the lower end, 14-16 x 6 ,a., erumpent on the 

 lower surface of the leaf. M. Populi is epiphyllous and has larger 

 spores. 



Marsonia apicalis. 



On living leaves of Salix lucida, Racine, Wis., July, 1890. Davis, 

 9012. Occupying the apex of the leaf which soon becomes brown, 

 dry and dead. Acervuli, minute, numerous. Spores oblong or 

 oblong-cylindrical, hyaline, 1-septate, 12-20 x 5-6 //., one end often 

 a little narrower, erumpent mostly on the lower surface of the leaf 

 in minute white heaps. 



Bamularia Canadensis 



On living leaves of Carex conoidea, London, Canada, Aug., 1890. 

 Dearness, No. 22. Spots black, elliptical, 1-2 mm. long or by con- 

 fluence 5-1 cm. becoming white in the center. Hyphae subulate, 

 hyaline, continuous, 30-40 x 3-4 p.., arising from the white center 

 of the spots and bearing at their tips oblong 1-septate, nucleate, 2-3- 

 concatenate, hyaline conidia, 15-22 x 5-6 //. 



This can hardly be referred to Septocylindrium on account of its 

 well developed fertile hyphae (basidia). It bears considerable 

 resemblance to Septocylindrium caricinum Sacc, but difl^ers in its 

 subulate basidia and broader, 1-septate conidia. 




1891.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 85 



Ramularia stolonifera. 



On leaves of Cormis stolonifera, London, Canada, Sept., 1889. J. 

 Dearness, 707. Hypophyllous on small, pale-reddish, subindefinite 

 spots which are rather more distinct above. Hyphae subfasciculate, 

 hyaline, simple or sparingly branched, 20-40 x 3-4 //., continuous, 

 obtuse and denticulate above. Conidia cylindrical, obtusely pointed, 

 catenulate (2-3), 10-30 x 2-3 //. 



R. angustissima Sacc. (on Cornus sangulnecC) is said to have the 

 hyphae 10-40 x 1-1 A ji-, and conidia 10-12 x 1-1 i //. Ours may 

 be only a more robust form. 



Ramularia arnicalis. 



On Arnica cordifolia, Rimini, Montana, June, 1889. Rev. F. D. 

 Kelsey, No. 88. Spots amphigenous, 3-4 mm. diara. suborbicular 

 or partly limited by the veinlets, dark dirty-brown above, ^Yith a 

 lighter, subindefinite, yellowish border, dull white below. Hvphae 

 hypophyllous, subfasciculate, 12-20 x 2^-3 //., slightly toothed 

 above. Conidia subcylindrical, 15-20 x 3 fj.., nucleate, acute at the 

 ends and the upper end mostly slightly curved. 



Bamalaria repens. 



On leaves of Aralia racemosa, Loudon, Canada, Sept., 1889. J. 

 Dearness, Nos. 876 and 877. Hypophyllous. Hyphae subfas- 

 ciculate 12-20 X 3 ;j:, subdenticulate above, arising from creeping, 

 branched sterile threads. Conidia cylindrical, nucleate and granular 

 15-22 X 3-4 /J.., some of them uniseptateand constricted, subcatenulate 

 in series of 2-3, the upper one sometimes bearing 2-3 conidia stand- 

 ing in a digitate manner on the apex. The fungus forms small 

 cinereous white patches 2-4 mm. diam. either indefinitely limited or 

 partly bounded by the veinlets. 



Ramularia Dioscoreae. 



On leaves of Dioscorea villom, Racine, Wis., Aug., 1889. Dr. J. 

 J. Davis, No. 189. Hypophyllous in small, whitish patches, thickly 

 scattered over the entire surface of the leaf which is faintly mottled 

 with yellow above. Fertile hyphae erect 25-35 x 4 p.. mostly 

 toothed above. Conidia oblong-cylindrical, obtuse, 1-septate, 15- 

 25 X 3^-4^ p.. The hairs of the Teaf are surrounded by the fungus 

 which gives them a whitish incrusted appearance. This is very 

 different from Cercospora Dioacoreae E. & M. 




86 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



Ramularia lethalis. 



On leaves of Acer rubrnvi, London, Canada, June, 1890. J. 

 Dearness, 1730. Spots irregular, subconfluent, 3-6 mm. across, 

 black-brown, extending over and killing the leaves. Hyphae hy- 

 ])ophyllous, slender, 12-15 x 2 ,".. Conidia elliptical to oblong, 5- 

 12 X 2 2 -3] ,"., the longer ones 1-septate, the shorter ones contin- 

 uous. 

 Peronospora Impatientis. 



On leaves oi' Impatiens fulva, Wilmington, Del., Apr., 1889. A. 

 Commons, 1373. Forming small, loose tufts becoming more or less 

 confluent, at length in an almost continuous thin white coat on the 

 lower surface of the leaves. Conidial hyphae bare for 200-300//. 

 below and 8-10 //. thick and continuous, above this sending out about 

 3 alternate branches nearly at a right angle, each of these 

 branches generally trifidly divided, each division bearing at its ex- 

 tremity about 3 straight spreading spicules bearing the globose 12- 

 14 //. or elliptical 15-17 x 12-14 /'.. conidia. Oospores not seen. 



Titaea Clarkei. 



Parasitic on Dichaena strumosa, on Quernis ilicifolia, Vineland, 

 N. J., Apr., 1888. Miss C. H. Clarke. Forming punctiform or 

 elongated (h-1 mm.), white appressed tufts of closely aggregated, 

 hyaline, quadrilocular conidia which are made up of two vertical 

 cells the upper one of which is globose or slightly elliptical, 7-9 //.. 

 diam. and the lower one subovate and smaller but bearing on each 

 of the two opposite sides a slightly curved or nearly straight spread- 

 ino- arm 40-45 ". lonor with two constrictions near the base where it 

 is about 4 //. thick, and gradually attenuated above to a slender 

 bristle-like tip. Occasionally there are three of these arms. The 

 conidia are borne on pedicels 15-25 x 3 //. 4-5 times constricted 

 and arising from a cellular stratum. This appears referable to 

 Saccardo's genus Titcea, from the single described species of which 

 it differs in the constricted arms and pedicel which give it a very 

 ornate appearance. The species is dedicated to its discoverer Miss 

 C. H. Clarke whose name is already familiar to the students of 

 mycology. 

 Rhinotrichum muricatum. 



On decaying bark, Adirondack Mts., 1887. Dr. Geo. A. Rex. 

 Appears like a thin clay-colored or grayish tomentose coating on 

 the matrix, effused and continuous for several cm. Prostrate 




1891.] NATURAL SCIENCES OK PHILAUELPIIIA. 87 



hyphae l)rowii, sparingly septate, branched, sending uj) an aliun- 

 dance of erect straight roughened branches 100-125 ,".. long and 10- 

 12 //.. thick, and mostly attenuated gradually above, bearing on all 

 sides the subelliptical, ferruginous-brown conidia which are often a 

 little bulging on one side and are about 7x3 //. The erect fertile 

 branches appear as if coated with coarse sand. 

 Zygodesmus tuberculosus. 



On decaying roots in swampy woods, Kewfield, N. J., Oct., 1889. 

 Hyphae, hyaline, about 10 /'-. diam. repeatedly branched above, 

 septate, branches erect, terminal divisions obtuse, 10-12 //.. diam. 

 with 2-4 sporophores 12-16 x 3 //.., bearing the oblong hyaline lo- 

 20 X 5-6 p.. conidia. The hyphae are collected in small (5-I nmi.) 

 tubercular tufts closely crowded or subconfluent forming a dull 

 white nearly continuous stratum resembling a tubercular Corticium. 



Zygodesmus limoniisporus. 



On rotten nu\ple, London, Canada, Oct., 1889. Dearness, 957. 

 Forms a thin drab-yellow stratum on the wood. Hyphae coarse 

 (^6_8 ,,. diam.) subhyaline septate, the extremities much branched 

 and assurgent, forming the thick (20-25 x 10 ,".) basidia which are 

 somewhat swollen and obtuse above with 4 stout spicules bearing 

 the lemon-shaped, yellowish-hyaline briefly pedicellate conidia, 7-9 

 X 5 ,". 

 Ooniosporium subgranulosum. 



On decorticated poplar, Sand Coulee, Cascade Co., Montana., Oct., 



1889. F. W. Anderson, 646. Forming small black, gregarious, 

 pulvinate sori composed of slightly adherent subglobose, granular- 

 roughened, brown conidia 4-5 p.. diam. Occasionally two conidia are 

 connate so as to appear 1-septate. Approaches Torula. 



Fusicladium Angelicse. 



On living leaves 0^ Angelica atropurpurea, Racine, Wis., Sept., 



1890. Davis, 9035. Hyphae hypophyllous, continous, brown, sub- 

 undulate, 40-50 X 5-6 //., toothed above, seated on a sphaeriaeform, 

 sclerotoid base, finally deciduous leaving the black sclerotoid base 

 exposed and resembling the perithecia of a Sphaerella. Conidia 

 terminal, clavate 1-septate, hyaline, 30-40 x 8-10 //. 

 Clasterisporium dothideoides. 



On dead twigs and stems of Shepherdia argentea and Artemisia 

 cana. Valley of the Teton in Northern Montana, July, 1889. F. 




88 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



W. Anderson 540 and 554. Bursting through cracks in the bark 

 in small (■] mm.) compact, black tufts which bear some resemblance 

 to an erumpent Dothidea. Conidia ovate-oblong or oblong-cylin- 

 drical 3-septate. yellow-brown, mostly a little curved, 25-40 x 12- 

 15 ,«., rounded at the ends and borne on hyaline, simple or imper- 

 fectly branched basidia (fertile hyphte) 20-30 x 5-7 /j-. 



Cercospora Kalmise. 



On living leaves of Kalmia latifolia, Newfield, N. J., Jan. 1 , 1890. 

 Spots amphigenous orbicular, dark brown, about h cm. diam. or by 

 confluence much larger, with a narrow yellowish (not raised) border, 

 concentrically wrinkled. Tufts of hyphae epiphyllous sphaeriae- 

 form, scattered, black, consisting of a tubercular base about 100 //.. 

 diam. from which arise in a dense, spreading fascicle the smoky hya- 

 line, closely undulate, continuous or faintly septate, 70-80 x 32-4 //. 

 hyphae, slightly toothed above and bearing the obclavate, hyaline, 

 faintly 3-5-septate, slightly curved conidia. This is quite different 

 from C. sparsa Cke. which is hypophyllous and not on any definite 

 spots. 



Cercospora pachyspora. 



On leaves of AHs^na Plantago and Peltandra Virginica, Wilming- 

 ton, Del., Oct., 1889. A. Commons, 1013, 1014. Spots amphige- 

 nous, large (1-2 cm.), cinereous, often elongated or marginal, limi- 

 ted by a narroAv purplish border. Hyphae in dense tufts, nearly 

 hyaline, continuous, undulate, entire or sparingly toothed above, 

 60-75 X 4-5 /J.., lead colored. Conidia oblong, 3-septate, 35-50 x 

 8-10 ,'J:, or elongated, obclavate, 5-7 //., septate, 60-80 x 8-10 //.. 

 This is very distinct from C. Alismatis Ell. & Holw. or C Callae or 

 C. Nymphaeacea C. & E., though all these have the lead colored 

 hyphae. 



Cercospora caespitosa. 



On living leaves of Eustachyspetraea and Chloris Swartziana, Ocean 

 Springs, Miss., Sept., 1889. Prof S. M. Tracy, No. 1215. Mostly 

 hypophyllous, forming scattered, brownish-black tufts \-h mm. diam. 

 and much resembling the minute sori of some Puecinia. Hyphae 

 densely tufted, deep brown, 3-5-septate, closely undulate and genic- 

 ulate above, 70-100 x 4 //. Conidia cylindrical-fusoid, slightly 

 curved, hyaline 20-35 x 3-3 J ,«. C. striaeformis Winter, to which, 

 this must be closely allied, grows in elongated tufts and has the 

 conidia more slender. 




1891.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 89 



Cercosj)ora Davisii. 



On leaves of Melilotus alba, Racine, Wis., July, 1889. Dr. J. J. 

 Davis, 1089. Spots ampliigenous, dark brown, suborbicular, l-^ 

 cm. diam., margin ?ubindefinite. Hyphae amphigenous, cespitose, 

 pale brown, geniculate or shouldered and crooked, niore or less sep- 

 tate, 40-50 X 5 //.. Conidia very variable, oblong-cylindrical to 

 obclavate, 20-80 x 4-5 //. multinucleate, becoming 5-6-or more sep- 

 tate, hyaline. Different from C. Meliloti Ouds. as decided by Oude- 

 raans himself to whom we have sent specimens. 

 Cercospora Houstoniae. 



On the lower leaves of Houstonia aerulea, Wilmington, Del., 

 April, 1890. Commons, 1371. Hyphae 20-30 x 3-4 />.., continu- 

 ous, brownish, scarcely toothed, subundulate, rising from a minute 

 tubercular base and forming minute, scattered tufts on the upper 

 surface of the leaves. Conidia subhyaline, lanceolate, 30-40 x 3 //. 

 granular and nucleolate, becoming 1-3-septate. 

 Cercospora Osmorrhizae. 



On Osmorrhiza longistylis, Newark, Del., May, 1890. Commons, 

 1416. Racine, Wis. Davis 9031. Spots amphigenous, grayish- 

 black, 2-3 mm. diam. situated on dead areas of the leaf, indefinitely 

 limited. Hyphae loosely fasciculate, 60-70 x 3 ,"■. sparingly septate, 

 subolivaceous, shouldered and toothed above, few in a fascicle. Con- 

 idia slender multiseptate, hyaline, 80-120 x 3-4 ,".. 



Cercospora Acnidae. 



On Acnida cannabina, AVilmington, Del., Sept., 1889. A. 

 Commons, 1011. Spots amphigenous, suborbicular, 1-3 mm. diam. 

 dirty white, margin dark. Hyphae amphigenous, brownish, contin- 

 uous, geniculate and more or less toothed above, 35-50 x 32-42 ,«. 

 C(Mii(lia obclavate, hyaline, 3-5-septate, 60-75 x 3-3* ,'j.. 



Cercospora Negundinis. 



On leaves of iVe^-imdo acerotcZes, Lincoln, Nebraska, Aug., 1889. 

 Roscoe Pound, No. 37. Spots amphigenous l-J cm. diam., rusty 

 brown, lighter in the center, subindefinite, mottled with small white 

 spots or specks. Hyphae epiphyllous, tufted on a tubercular base, 

 straight, continuous, nearly hyaline, obtuse and slightly toothed 

 . above, 25-30 x 5-7 ,«. Conidia obclavate 2-4-septate, hyaline, 90- 

 110 X 5-6 p.. Quite different (according to spec, from de Thuraen) 

 from C. acerina Hartig. 




^0 rRO0F,F:DIXGS OF THE ACADKMV OK [1891. 



Cercospora Senecionis. 



On leaves of Senecio aureus, Wilmington, Del., Ang., 1889. A 

 Commons, No. 978. Spots amphigenous, sul)orbicular, 1-3 nnii. 

 diani. subconfluent, rusty brown at first and surrounded by a dark 

 purplish discoloration, then grayi.sb-white. Hypbae foscieubite, 

 scattered, erect, brown, o-4-septate, subgeniculate above, 100-150 x 

 4-5 ,'/.. Conidia subcylindrical, multiseptate, hyaline, not constricted, 

 90-120 X 5-6 //. This is different from C. J<tcquin{an>i Tliuni. of 

 which we have specimens from Dr. Winter. 

 Cercospora infuscans. 



On fading leaves of Ehus venenata, Wilmington, Del., Oct., 1890. 

 Commons, 1621. Spots at first brownish and limited by the vein- 

 lets of the leaf, becoming confluent and black, occupying and kill- 

 ing the affected part which becomes dead and brittle. Hyphje 

 hypophyllous, fasciculate, erect, slightly bulbous at base and some- 

 what toothed above, septate, dark, 70-85 x 4 ,".. Conidia clavate 

 or oblong-clavate. tinged with olive or sooty-black but transparent, 

 30-60 x 4—5 //., 3— 6-septate and often constricted at the se[)ta. Ac- 

 companied by numerous small, sterile perithecia, apparently some 

 young SpliaereUa. 



Cercospora Comandrae Ell. it Dearness. 



On leaves of Comandra umbellata, London, Canada, Aug., 1890. 

 Dearness, 294. Spots small (1-2 ram.), round, reddish-brown, defi- 

 nite. Hyphae sliort, 12-20 x 3-32 !j., simple, entire, straight, ob- 

 tuse, tufted on a small tubercular base. Conidia slender, obclavate, 

 70-80 X 3-3} !>.., nucleate (and faintly septate)? nearly straight. 

 Cercuspora Mikaniae. 



On leaves of J//^a??/a scu«(ien.s, Mississippi. Tracy, 1567. Hypo- 

 phyllous. Hyphae 100-120 x 4 //.., septate.'brown, subequal, fas- 

 ciculate, more or less bent, sparingly toothed above, tufts effused form- 

 ing indefinite olive-brown patches and more or less confluent over 

 the entire lower surface of the leaf, but not on any definite spots. 

 Conidia oblong-clavate, 3-6-septate, olivaceous, 40-85 x 5-6 //.. 

 Cercospora Halstedii. 



On living leaves of Carya tomentosa, Cold Spring, N. Y., July, 

 1890. Dr. B. D. Halsted. Hypophyllous. Effused, forming inde- 

 terminate, olive-black patches 2-4 mm. diam. but without any defi- 

 nite spots. Hyphae erect, brown, sparinglyiseptate, 100-150 x 5- 

 7 //., closely undulate or crisped and torulose^above. Conidia ob- 




]891.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHII^ADELPIIIA. 91 



claviite, brown, 65-80 x 5-7 //.., about o-septate and sometimes con- 

 stricted at the septa, the broad triseptate part occupying about one- 

 half the length. 



Cercospora HCedicaginis. 



On Medicago deiitiealata, College Station, Texas, May, 1890. 

 H. S. Jennings, 146. Spots rusty-brown becoming dirty-brown, sub- 

 orbicular and subindefinite, 3-5 mm. diam. Hyphae amphigenous 

 but more abundant above, nearly hyaline at first, then yellow-brown, 

 continuous geniculate above, 85-45 x 4-5 //. Conidia fusoid-cylin- 

 drical, hyaline, 3-6-septate, 40-60 x 3 //.. The tufts of hyphae are 

 effused, forming a short rusty-brown coating on the spots. 



Cercospora lathyrina. 



On living leaves of Lathijrus latifollus (cult.), Newfield, N. J., 

 Aug. 1890. Spots rusty-brown, becoming paler in the center, sub- 

 epiphyllous, rather indefinitely limited, 2-5 mm. diam. Hyphae 

 epiphyllous, cespitose, brownish, crisped or narrowly undulate above, 

 sparingly septate, 75-100 x 4 //.. Conidia slender, hyaline, very 

 faintly 1-3-septate, 80-110 x 3 //. 



The leaves are irregularly blotched witli dirty flesh-color below. 

 Allied to C. canescois E. & M., but more slender throughout. 



Cercosporella pyrina. 



On leaves of Pyrus coronaria Racine, Wis., Aug., 1890. Davis, 

 9033. Hypophyllous, effused, without any definite spots, at first in 

 small, irregularly shaped patches, finally spreading more or less 

 continuously over the entire lower surface of the leaf which then 

 becomes more or less discolored, reddish-brown especially above. 

 Fertile hyphae effused, short, 12-25 x 5 p-., hyaline. Conidia ob- 

 long, fusoid-oblong or vermiform, hyaline, 3-6-septate, ends obtuse. 

 Fusicladiim efFusum Winter var. Carpineum E. & E. 



On living leaves of Carpinus Americana, London, Canada, Oct., 

 1889. Dearness, 812. Differs from the typical form in its mostly 

 epiphyllous growth, darker color and rather smaller, paler conidia. 

 Clasterisporium cornigerum. 



On bark of dead Curpinus, London, Canada, May, 1890. Dear- 

 ness, 1692. Sterile hyphae creeping, septate, sending up multi- 

 septate fertile branches 70-100 x 8-10 /-».., enlarged above into the 

 oblong-clavate, 5-7 -septate, brown conidia 70-100 x 12-15 ,«. at 

 first, rounded above, then truncate, the terminal cell germinating 




92 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



laterally. C. herculevm Ell. in N. A. F. 542, has the spores only 3-4 

 -septate. The Canada species forms flattened tufts 1-2 mm. diam., 

 around which the fungus is more or less extensively effused. 

 Dendryphium muricatum. 



Oa decaying wood of Prtuins Vlrglniana, Sand Coulee, Montana, 

 May, 1889. F. W. Anderson, No. 492. Effused, black. Hyphae 

 erect, with short, alternate or subopposite branches bearing the 30 

 —40 X 6-7 ,"., 3-5-septate muriculate-roughened conidia in series of 

 4-8. 



Dendryphium pachysporum. 



Parasitic on some light colored Peiiiophora on rotten wood, St. 

 Martinsville, La., July, 1889. Langlois, 1810. Hyphae subfasci- 

 culate, septate below, moniliform-jointed above, with one or two 

 short, jointed branches, both the branches and the main hyphae bear- 

 ing at their extremities one large (25-40 x 15-20 /'..) subopaque 2-3- 

 septate conidium, the septa being darker than the body of the coni- 

 dia. The lower, septate base of the hyphae about 100 x 6 ,"., the 

 upper nioniliform part also of about the same length, the joints be- 

 ing 10-15 x 6-7 ,".. olivaceous (lighter tlum the conidia), continuous 

 or uniseptate. 



Septonema griseo-fulvum. 



On dead decorticated twigs of Populus tremuloides, Sand Coulee, 

 Cascade Co., Montana, Oct., 1889. F. W. Anderson, 630. Forms 

 a yellowish-drab-colored stratum, tolerably compact, extending for 

 two or more cm. and more or less completely enveloping the limb. 

 Hyphae interwoven, branched, hyaline at first, septate, finally sepa- 

 rating at the alternate septa into yellowish-brown, 1-septate coni- 

 dia 6-9 x 22-3 ,'j.. mostly constricted at the septum. 



Sporidesmium tabacinum. 



On decaying wood of Popuhis trevialoides. Sand Coulee, Mon- 

 tana, May, 1889. Anderson, 503. Effused, forming a pulverulent 

 tobacco-brown stratum on the surface of the wood. Conidia glo- 

 bose or oblong, 25-35 //. diam. or 25-45 x 20-30 //. made up of glo- 

 bose cells about 6-7 !>.. diam. Sterile hyphae inconspicuous. Coni- 

 dia mostly with a short pedicel. 

 Macrosporium Podophylli. 



On old Aecidium Podophylli Schw., Starkville, Miss., Apr., 1889. 

 Prof. S. M. Tracy, 1202. Mostly hypophyllous, effused, thin, the 

 sterile, creeping, pale brownish or subhyaline hyphae sending up 




1891.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 93 



short (80-40 x 4-5 //.), continuous or ftiintly .septate, erect r<ubhya- 

 line, obtuse branches with clavate, yellow-brown, 4-5-septate, niuri- 

 form, 30-50 x 10-12 //., conidia prolonged below into a distinct 

 pedicel. 



Helicosporium diplosporum. 



On dead stems of Smilax, St. Martinsville, La., Jan., 1889. Lang- 

 lois, No. 1700 (]). p.). Black, effused, velutinous, thin, composed of 

 septate branching brown sterile hyphae from which arise the erect 

 closely septate, subcylindrical, nearly opaque, 35-40 x 5-6 //., fertile 

 hyphae bearing at their tips the solitary brown conidia composed of 

 two .series of parallel connate cells curved so as to form a circular 

 disk 20-22 /'.. diam., with a notch below, the apex of the double 

 chain of cells not quite touching its base. Helicoma velutinum Ell. 

 in Torr. Bull, has the hyphae about the same, but the conidia are 

 smaller and composed of a single series of brown cells. 



Fusarium volutella. 



On dead twigs of Vitis bipinnuta, St. Martinsville, La., Oct., 1888. 

 Langlois, l^o. 1505. Hyphae hyaline, simple or sparingly branched, 

 continuous or sparingly septate, 100 //. long or over and 4-5 //. 

 thick, erect, forming brush-like tufts, rising through cracks in the 

 bark from some buried Cytispora f The hyphae are tuberculose- 

 spiculose above, bearing attached to the.se tooth-like projections, the 

 falcate, hyaline, 50-70 x 4-5 ,"., 1-septate conidia. The habit and 

 general appearance is that of Volutella. 



Epidochium olivaceum. 



On dead liml)s of Fraxinus, London, Canada, June, 1890. Dear- 

 ness, 1290. Sporodochia solitary or cespitose, tuberculiform, sub- 

 hemispherical L'-J mm. diam., dark olive, carnose, erumpent finally 

 discoid or subcollapsed. Basidia .simple, stout, 20-30 x 3-4 //., con- 

 tinuous, greenish-granular, becoming hyaline, subequal. Conidia 

 subfalcate, obtuse, greenish-hyaline, granular, continuous, 25-35 x 

 5-7 //. 

 Exosporiuni sociatum. 



Associated with Rhytisma acerinum on leaves of Acer rubriim. 

 Bayou Chene, La., Oct., 1888. Langlois, 1537. Sporodochia am- 

 phigenous surrounding the stroma of the Rhytisma and on the side 

 of the leaf opi)osite to it, erumpent, minute, finally subpulverulent 

 from the abundant conidia which are dark-brown, oblong, 3-septate, 

 straight or slightly curved, ends mostly subacute, 12-15 x 4-5 //., on 

 sporophores of about the same length as the conidia. 




94 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



ON THE GENUS PSILORHINUS Ruppell. 

 BY WITMEK STOXE. 



While engaged in cataloguing the Corvidae in the collection of the 

 Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, I found several inter- 

 esting specimens of Psilorhmus, some of which did not seem to agree 

 exactly with an}' of the described species, while others seemed to 

 cast doubt upon the validity of P. cyanogenys of Sharpe. This led 

 to a more minute study of the genus which was made possible by 

 the kindness of Mr. Robert Ridgway, curator of birds in the U. S. 

 National Museum, who has loaned me the entire series of P.\Uorhi})ns 

 contained in that institution. 



There have been four species of Psilorhinns described by authors : 



P. morio (Wagl.). (Pica morio AVagl. Isis 1829, p. 751). 



P. Mexicanus Riipp. j\Ius. Senckenb. 1837, p. 189. The type of 

 the genus. 



P. cyanogenys Sharpe. Cat. Binls in Brit. Mus. iii, p. 140, 1877. 



P. vociferus (Cabot). (Corvus vociferiis Cabot. Bost. Jour. Nat. 

 Hist. IV, p. 464. 1844). 



This last was referred as a synonym of Corvus corax by G. R. 

 Gray in his Hand List and this error has been followed by many 

 other authors. How the mistake originated it is hard to see, as the 

 description is perfectly clear. The discovery of Cabot's type in the 

 Academy's collection led me to the correct identification of the spe- 

 cies and I afterwards noticed that Mr. Ridgway had also discovered 

 the true character of" Corvus vociferus'' (Manual of N. A. Birds, 

 p. 361, foot note). 



These four species fall naturally into two groups, P. viorio having 

 the tail entirely brown while the others have all the feathers but the 

 central pair broadly tipped with white. 



After a careful study of the series of P. Mexicanus and cyanogenys 

 now before me, I have come to the conclusion that the two are not 

 specifically distinct. 



The character upon which Sharpe based his P. cyanogenys consisted 

 in the presence of a bluish-gray patch on the side of the head. The 

 great variation both in the extent and intensity of this patch in the 

 specimens in the Academy's collection led me to doubt its value as a 

 specific character especially as I found the same gray patch con- 

 spicuously present in some specimens of P. morio, wliile in others 




1891.] NATTRAr- SCIKNC'KS or PHILADELPHIA. 95 



there was more or less tendency to a ligliter coloration on the malar 

 region ; in fact, in nearly ail the specimens of this genus that I have 

 seen the feathers of the malar region have a different luster from 

 those of the side of the head; so that this character is, to say the 

 least, very variable. From the material at hand it is impossible to 

 make the presence of the strongly marked malar patch correspond 

 with any geographical range or with any variation in age or plum- 

 age, and it must, therefore, be considered merely as an individual 

 variation. 



As regards P. voeiferus. although the presence of the gray malar 

 patch will not serve to keep it separate any more than in the case 

 of P. cycuiogenys, nevertheless it possesses other characters w Inch may 

 })rove of specific or subspecific value, by which it may be distin- 

 guished from all the specimens of P. Mexicanus seen by me. 



I refer to the size and shape of the bill and the coloration of the 

 tail. In ail the Central American specimens the bill is nearly uni- 

 form in shape though varying somewhat in absolute dimensions, 

 while in the type of P. voeiferus (from Yucatan) it is shorter, and 

 deeper in proportion to its length. A specimen of " P. cyanogenys" 

 however, from ]\[irador, has a bill of nearly the same shape though 

 much larger. 



In regard to the tail, the white tips in P. voeiferus are much 

 broader than in P. Mexicanus, measuring on the outer feathers fully 

 two inches while in only one other specimen do they reach as much 

 as an inch and a half and average only an inch and a quarter. 

 Moreover, in P. voeiferus there is a subterminal white band on the 

 central tail feathers which are uniform brown, in all the other spec- 

 imens this band is somewhat obscured in the middle of the feathers 

 though the quill is distinctly white where it crosses. 



In consideration of these differences and the lack of other speci- 

 mens from Yucatan, I think we are hardly justified in uniting P. 

 voeiferus with P. Mexieanus. A more complete series of specimens 

 may show these characters to be merely individual, as in the case of 

 the gray malar patch, and then we can unite all birds with white 

 tips to the rectrices under P. Mexicanus. 



There is still another point in connection with the birds of this 

 group, namely the coloration of the under surface. One of the 

 Costa Rica specimens shows a sharp line of division between the 

 brown of the neck and breast and the white of the under parts, 

 while in other specimens the colors shade gradually into one another. 




96 I'ROCEEDIXGS OF THE ACADEMY OE [1891. 



This same difference occurs in specimens of P. morio. The extent 

 of the dark color also varies considerably in different specimens, 

 two birds from Nicaragua being much darker below than any others 

 in the series. 



As regards P. morio the series of eleven specimens show consider- 

 able individual variation of nearly the same character as occurs in 

 /-*. Me.vicanus l)ut nothing, I tliink, which can be considered of specific 

 vaUie. 



As mentioned above one specimen (No. 3093, Phila. Acad. Coll.) 

 shows a distinct blue-gray malar patch and spot above and behind 

 the eye. Some have the black throat and breast separated from the 

 lighter under surface by a sharp line while in others the colors are 

 blended, and the throat is sometimes but little darker than the rest 

 of the under surface. 



The color of the under surface also shows great variation. It is 

 generally light grayish-brown but in one specimen (Nat. Mus. Col. 

 No. 4115) from San Diego, Mexico, it is nearly white and in 

 another (Nat. Mus. Coll. No. 42139) from Orizaba, suffused with 

 rufous especially on the under tail coverts. The wings in this spec- 

 imen are also reddish-brown. 



To sum up my observations on the genus, it must, I think, be 

 considered as a group in which great individual variation occurs, 

 variation which may eventually produce several well marked forms. 

 At present, however, I think we can recognize but two species P. 

 morio ( Wagl.) extending from Tehuantepec north to the Rio Grande 

 valley and P. Mexicanus Riipp. from southern Mexico to Costa Rica 

 with the possibility of another distinct species or race in the penin- 

 sula of Yucatan. The gray malar patch must be regarded as a var- 

 iable character occurring in individuals of each species. 



Below I give the measurements (in inches) of some of the speci- 

 mens especially referred to above: 



Type of/*, vociferus, Yucatan, No. 3096, Acad. Coil. 

 " P. cyanogenys," Mirador, Mex. No. 23917, Nat. Mu-. 

 P. Mixicanus, No. 31)94, .\cad. Coll. • 

 P. morio with gray cheek. No. 3093, Acad. Coll. 

 P. morio, Orizaba, Max., No. 42139, Nat. Mus. Coll. 




1891.] NATITRAI- SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 97 



DESCEIPTION OF NEW SPECIES OF ANCTTJS AND OLIVA. 

 15 Y JOHN' FORI). 

 Anctus Filsbryi Ford. Fig. 1. 



Shell rimately umbilicated, the axis imperforate ; ovate-conical, 

 sj)ire acute, apex black; whorls 7, slightly convex, the last some- 

 what contracted near the base. Aperture extremely nar- 

 row, oblong; lip flatly reflected, the central half of its 

 length provided with a flange extending towards the in- 

 ner or columellar lip, from which proceeds a correspond- 

 ing convexity, thus giving to the aperture a form much 

 like the traditional key-hole. Color grayish-white, painted 

 Fig. I. longitudinally with brownish and black lines. 

 Length of shell 23, diameter 9^ mill. Width between flanges 1, 

 width of flange on outer lip 2 mill. Color of lip white ; aperture 

 slightly shaded within. Habitat, Brazil. 



Andas (ingiostoma Wagner {capueira Spix), Fig. 2, and A. Pilsbryi 

 are the only living species of the genus known, and both are in color 

 pattern and general form very much alike. In the for- 

 mer species, however, the apex is not black and shining 

 as in the latter nor are the apertures at all alike save in 

 general outline. 



Indeed, that of A. Pilsbryi is absolutely distinct from 

 any other known to the writer. This alone would justify 

 Fig. 2. its specific separation. 



The figures were drawn from photographs of the shells and may 

 therefore be accepted as correct. 



The species has been named in honor of my friend Mr. Henry A. 

 Pilsbry, Conservator of the Conehological department of the Acad- 

 emy and present Editor of the "Manual of Conchology." 

 Oliva cryptospira ForJ. Figs. 3, 4. 



Shell cylindrical, slightly enlarged near either end, producing an 

 obese appearance. Salmon-colored, with a few dashes of white 

 accompanied by faint zigzag brownish lines showing through the 

 enamel, the latter being somewhat thickened and more orange in 

 color on the basal fasciole. Spire short, ivith sutures entirely con- 

 cealed by a heavy callus. Edge of lip and interior of aperture w^hite. 

 Length of type specimen 2t inches. Greatest diameter 1 inch. 

 Habitat, Moluccas. 




98 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1891. 



This shell is probahly well known to veteran collectors, since it 

 has been posing for many years as a veritable 0. irisans Lamarck, 

 from which species, however, it is in fact distinct. 



No figure was given with Lamarck's description of 0. iri><(nis, 

 but a figure probably intended for the same 

 shell appears in Reeve's " Conchologia Iconica," 

 Vol. 6, PL 6, fig. 8a, where it is classed with 

 typical 0. it'isans Lam. That this figure does 

 not agree with Lamarck's description in any 

 essential feature is quite apparent. 



It seems, however, to have been accepted by 

 ray late friend, Mr. Tryon, as a representative 

 0. irisints, since it was copied for the " IManual" 

 without remark ; although several specimens 

 exhibiting characters similar to those shown in 

 the figure — but which belong to 0. cryptospira 

 only — were at the time in the Academy's collec- 

 tion. Whether these specimens were accident- 

 ally overlooked, or the distinctions noted deemed 

 too trifling for special designation, is a question 

 that cannot now be answered. 



Judging from Mr. Tryon's well-known habits of study and care- 

 fulness, it is but fair to presume that the shells 

 were not seen by him. In consequence of this 

 uncertainty, the responsibility of correcting the 

 error (if error it be), is accepted rather reluc- 

 Fig. 4. tautly although in the firm belief that the change 



will benefit the student, as well as, in some slight degree, the 

 cause of Science, also. 




1891.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 99 



BASANITE FROM CRAWFORD COUNTY. INDIANA. 

 BY E. GOLD.SMITH. 



During a recent visit to the Wyandotte Cave, southern Indiana, 

 I oh.'^erved in one of the larger chambers, two sharply defined hori- 

 zontal black veins in one of the vertical walls of light colored car- 

 boniferous limestone. The lower vein niea.^ured about one and a 

 quarter inch in thickness, and, about fourteen inches above it, was 

 the second vein of three inches in thickness. From a distance, by 

 the dim light of a stearine candle, the veins appeared like coal; the 

 touch, however, revealed a hard rock of a silicious nature, which 

 the guide said was called chert. 



Examination revealed an amorphous, very fine-grained rock hav- 

 ing a smooth conchoidal fracture ; the irregular edges are sharp and 

 hard, so much so that they scratch glass, its hardness being equal 

 to quartz ; its luster is subresinous on a fresh fracture, becoming 

 dull on exposure ; the color is smoky-gray in mass, less so when thin- 

 ning down ; it is opaque except on thin edges where it is subtrans- 

 lucent ; it furnishes no streak ; the rock is not splintery ; it gives 

 sparks with a steel. If heated suddenly it will decrepitate ; a gen- 

 tle heat, crraduallv increased, causes the smoky hue to disappear, the 

 specimen becoming grayish-white. It is known that such rocks con- 

 tain carbon, and the one under consideration contains also some 

 water as was seen when it is heated in a tube closed at the end. 



Analvsis, gave the following result : 



Silica 93-66 per cent. 



Iron and alumina 3*10 per cent. 



Water 1-34 per cent. 



Carbon ()-28 per cent. 



Fluorine and sodium not determined; Chlorine hardly a trace. 

 Sp. gr.=2*605. From its general character I believe this so called 

 Chert to be the touchstone of the assayers, otherwise called Lydian 

 stone or Basanite.^ 



A thin section appears when magnified with a low power as regular 

 successive layers, or striae, diflTering, however, from those of crystals. 

 These striae indicate the probable existence of great pressure, since 

 it seems to have once been colloidal silica. The distances between 



1 Dana, Descriptive M.nt-ralogy, p. 195. 




100 



PKOCKKI)IX(iS OF THE ACAOKMY OV 



[1891. 



these layers are approximately 0'023 millimeter. The layers when 

 magnified 220 times present a series of irregular waves in which the 

 ridges seem to be indicated by granules of o.xide of iron and particles 

 of amorphous carbon. Intermingled are found inclusions of isometric 



M^iji' rt"' FA^^^\ ^^Iti^^; .W% 



Fig. I. 



forms : cubes, dodecahedrons and also indications of a few octa- 

 hedrons, some ])erfectly black but the greater number transparent 

 and colorless. The opaque black microlites seem to be magnetite and 

 the transparent ones probabl}^ carbon. Some of these latter contain 

 specks of amorphous carbon as inclusions. The section in balsam 

 gave at some points a .strong reflection by surface illumination. 

 The forms, however, were not well defined. Another section was 

 etched with HF. The etching showed under the lens some cubical 

 crystals with sharp edges and solid angles and a large number of 

 hollows, quadrangular and hexangular in shape, from which the 

 microlites had probably been removed by the washing, sufficient 

 indications being left for the recognition of tho.se interesting small 

 bodies. The thin section from which Fig. 1 was drawn was sub- 

 jected to a gradually increasing heat on a small platinum dish over 

 the Bunsen burner until the object was red-hot. The residue 

 was subjected to this heat for three hours when the blow-pipe flame 




1891.] NATUKAL SCI ENXKS OF PHILADELPHIA. 101 



was directed upon it to bring the heat to greater intensity. The 

 result was that the section became nearly white. It was then reim- 

 bedded in balsam to determine the change which had taken place. 



Viewed under ordinary light, with a microscope, nearly all the 

 transparent crystals had disappeared, that is to say, the forms were 

 black, and with the proper management of" the light it became evi- 

 dent that hollow S|)aces now occurred where formerly transparent 

 crystals existed. The matrices were lined more or less with a very 

 fine black powder wliich was, to all appearances, charcoal. This 

 darkening was invariably produced wherever the microlites had but 

 one facet before the heating. Where the silica surrounded the crys- 

 tal it appeared as if the heat and air had no access and, in conse- 

 quence, they were not affected, though such cases were but few in 

 number. Some of the hollow spaces were seen by oblique light to 

 be lined with red oxide of iron. These were the locations of the oxi- 

 dized magnetite Avhere the red powder was left intact. The hollow 

 angular spaces may also be recognized by allowing the light to pass 

 through the polarizer without the analyzer. Under this treatment, 

 especially when the si)aces stand squarely to the section, the burnt- 

 out angular matrices are well defined. 



The character of these microlites was determined liy the applica- 

 tion of intense heat. A silicate would not be affected in like 

 manner. It may not be amiss to note the fact that larger carbon 

 crystals have been observed which hold inclusions of amorphous car- 

 bon similar to those noticed in the section of basanite referred to. 



Some spherical white masses formed by the heating of the section 

 were probably due to a volatile matter which is known to form part 

 of the composition of basanite ; they resemble those frequently 

 observed on heating minerals containing fluorine. 



The acid affects the material of the plate etched with hydrofluoric 

 acid very irregularly, and, since the rock seems to be a mixture of chal- 

 cedony and amorphous silica, a peculiar reaction occurs with polarized- 

 light. While the chalcedony indicated phenomena of interference, 

 the amorphous silica permitted the polarized light to pass. This is 

 especially the case when Klein's quartz plate is interposed. The 

 amorphous silica then appears green, when the Nicols are crossed, and 

 the chalcedony orange-colored. On turning the analyzer 90° the 

 colors are reversed. The hydrofluoric acid seems to affect the amor- 

 phous silica more than the chalcedony, as the latter projected irregu- 

 larly over the etched surface. These projecting particles when prop- 




102 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1891. 





erly manipulated reflect the light in a singular way. The reflec- 

 tion of the ray is such as to form a tail from the shining surface 

 of the particles, comet-like, the end of the tail having 

 sometimes a whirling motion with colored fringes. 

 Occasionally, when a group of those particles is under 

 Fig. 2. focus, Fig. 2, the motions proceed in different directions 

 })roducing a peculiarly lively effect. On the introduction of a Ber- 



trand lens, a rosette, Fig. 3, was pro- 

 duced widely diflfering from the comet- 

 like reflection. This rosette represents 

 a circular form having a cone whose 

 ba.se has about the diameter of half 

 the whole figure and its height slightly 

 greater. From the foot of the cone 

 issue delicate filamentous rays of great 

 regularity and so brilliant that it is 

 difficult to repre.sent it in black and 



When the comet-like tail is not ob- 

 served, a hollow cone is seen under 

 the Bertrand lens, having but few rays 

 Fig. 4. on its base. Both phenomena are new 



to me in connection with micro-mineralogy. In optics the caustic 



plane has precisely such an appear- 

 ance and in its revolution gives, nec- 

 essarily, a hollow cone. From this we 

 may infer that the comet-like tails de- 

 scribed above are probably continuous 

 in their whirling motion, even when 

 they are not in a correct position to 

 allow this to be seen under the micro- 

 scope. 



It may be assumed that the black 

 hexagonal plates which remain dark 

 between the crossed Nicols may be 

 truly hexagonal crystals, and the dark- 

 ness is due to the position of the axis ; 

 l)ut, since they are not aflfected by the 

 convergent polarized rays, the form 

 cannot belong to that system. Neither 



do any of the transparent crystals respond to a like treatment. Sev- 




1891.] XATURAl. SCIENCKS OF PHILADELPIIIA. 108 



eral dozen illustration.s of both pheuonieua were examined with the 

 same result. That the dark forms are magnetite is rendered highly 

 probable by the production of iron oxide by heating. On the other 

 hand, the small transparent microlites may not be carbon, because 

 on attempting to isolate them by hydrofluoric acid the resulting 

 forms obtained were not distinct enough to be recognized as such, as 

 one should expect, being granules instead of well defined crystals. On 

 heating to redness tliey burned away leaving but a ti'ace of what seems 

 to be silica. The isolation of the supposed crystals of carbon would be 

 proof of their identity ; the result, however, lieing unsatisfactory, the 

 subject is an open question for further inquiry. Had the isolated por- 

 tion been amorphous carbon, dark-colored fragments would have bepn 

 seen, but such was not the case, on the contrary the rounded and elon- 

 gated forms seem to refract light strongly. It may be that the exceed- 

 ingly small crystals could not stand the treatment without losing their 

 sharp edges and solid angles, thus becoming unrecognizable. The fact 

 that the burnt-out matrices were lined with amorphous carbon after 

 burning, points in that direction, since it is well known that the dia- 

 mond when strongly heated in a vessel will lose its transparency and 

 will either take the form of graphite or charcoal. It may be as- 

 sumed that the transi)areiit crystals area salt with an organic acid, 

 thus ex})laining the amorphous carbon after the incineration. In 

 this case, however, the material with which the assumed organic acid 

 was combined would remain in the matrices besides the amorphous 

 carbon, but nothing was seen except the black powder. Further- 

 more, hydrofluoric acid would affect such a salt with comparative 

 ease and leave no carbon in the residue as stated above. 



I call the crystallized part of the basanite, chalcedony and not 

 quartz because of certain indications of its fibrous structure in tlie 

 circular form, showing a dark brush-like cross between the crossed 

 Nicols, which meet in the center. If the section is rotated the cross 

 does not change its position ; luit, if the analyzer is turned to 45° 

 the brushes move about 22]° and appear of an indigo-blue color. 

 If the Nicols are parallel, the brushes follow but 45° in each quad- 

 rant and appear blue ; turning the analyzer 45° more the brushes 

 move along to about 67]° and assume the indigo-blue tint again ; 

 finally, when the moving of the analyzer is completed in the second 

 quadrant, the dark, brush-like cross reappears. AVhen, therefore, 

 the analyzer had been revolved 180°, the brush-like cross followed 

 only 90°. As .stated above the dark cross met in the center ; but. 




104 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [189L 



on turning the analyzer when the brusheg became colored, a circu- 

 lar space was produced in the center having a yelloAv color which 

 did not change to any other. 



Since no circular rings occurred and the central part of the con- 

 centric and fibrous structure of this part of the plate did not change 

 in color when rotated, it is evident that this variety of quartz, called 

 chalcedony, behaves in a widely different manner from quartz proper. 

 I have not found this peculiar optical behavior described and think 

 it to be of sufficient interest to put on record. 



Explanation of the Fkjures. 



Figure 1 represents a thin section of Basanite magnified 220 times 

 showing the transparent crystals of carbon and the dark 

 opaque magnetite. 



Figure 2 shows a group of strongly reflecting points as seen by sur- 

 face illumination. 



Figure 3 the rosette j)roduced therefrom by introducing the Betrand 

 lens. 



Figure 4 a contour of figure 3 cut vertically. 



Figure 5 indicates the cone produced from reflecting points having 

 no comet-like tails. 




1891.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 105 



DESCRIPTION OF A SPECIMEN OF CHIROLOPHIS POLYACTOCEPHALUS 

 FROM VANCOUVER ISLAND. 



BY ASHDOWX II. GREEN. 



A specimen of this rare blenny, Chirolophis polyadocephalus, 

 taken at Alert Bay on the North East Coast of Vancouver Island 

 in November, 1890. I give herewith a detailed description : 



Body elongate, compressed. Eyes approximate ; no lateral line. 

 Scales deeply imbedded, appearing like pits, 186 in length, 54 from 

 back to belly. Branchial rays 5. Gill membrane continuous, free 

 from isthmus. Skin on top of head and neck loose ; numerous der- 

 mal flaps and cirri. Large superciliary cirrus with three main 

 branches. Numerous mucous pores on snout. ]Mouth and lips 

 fleshy ; a single row of delicately fine comb-like teeth on upper and 

 lower jaw, closely set. Two patches of fine teeth on upper part of 

 gullet. No teeth on vomer or palatines. 



Dorsad LXIII, fleshy, the sharp points of spines projecting slightly 

 beyond the membranes. The 8 anterior spines stronger and more 

 blunt than the remainder, covered with loose skin, and having 

 numerous dermal flaps, some extending beyond the spines. Dorsal 

 not connected with the caudal. 



Anal rays 46, soft and fleshy, the rays folding over one another, 

 free for about half their length. The first ray shorter than the 

 others, the last connected. Anal not connected Avith caudal fin. 

 Ventral rays 3, jugular, fleshy, no spine. Pectoral rays 14, broad, 

 rays broadly branched, fleshy towards base. Caudal rays 14, 

 rounded, rays fleshy and broadly branched. 



Coloration : two conspicuous black wavy lines behind opercle, 

 and in front of pectorals. Numerous light colored blotches, on 

 body, dorsal and anal, round or oval, about the size of peas or small 

 beans. Said to be highly colored, scarlet spots, purple body, re- 

 sembling Hexagrammns superciUosus when fresh. The specimen 

 is now in the Provincial Museum, Victoria, British Columbia. 



This fish has not previously been taken south of Alaska. A good 

 figure has been given by Dr. T. H. Bean in Nelson's " Report on 

 Natural History Collections in Alaska," plate XV, but no descrip- 

 tion, except the fragmentary account of a Kamtschatkan specimen 

 given by Pallas, has ever been published. 

 8 




106 PROCEEDEKG.S OF THK ACADEMY OF [1891. 



PALAEOSYOPS AND ALLIED GENERA. 

 BY CHARLES EARLE. 



The present preliminary notice is the result of an investigation 

 of the Palaeosyops material contained in the Princeton collection. 

 This material was collected by the various Princeton exploring 

 parties, and is from the middle Eocene ; partly from the Bridger, 

 and partly from the Washakie division of this epoch. 



The genus Palaeosyops was established by Leidy.^ Since then 

 ^larsh, Cope, Scott and Osborn have made contributions to the same 

 and allied genera. They have all felt the want of abundant 

 material in their descriptions, and in most cases the original types 

 described by them have never been compared, and thus one finds 

 the confusion in the nomenclature a great obstacle. Another 

 difficulty has been, to co-ordinate various portions of skulls and 

 scattered teeth with each other and with the limb-bones. I have 

 been greatly assisted by a part of an individual of Palaeosyops 

 paludosus in the Princeton Collection, associated with a portion of 

 the skull, and the bones of a posterior limb, nearly complete. Dur- 

 ing the course of this investigation I have been enabled to study the 

 original types in the National Museum, in the Academy of Natural 

 Sciences of Philadelphia, and in the Yale College Museum.^ I 

 am also indebted to Prof. Cope for allowing me to examine his 

 collection ; so that I am now in a position to bring together the 

 work of the several authors, and to give, as well as the present 

 known material will allow, a preliminary descriptive analysis of 

 the forms above referred to. 



Nomenclature. Cope, in his Tertiary Vertebrata, has shown the 

 relation of the nomenclature o( Palaeosyops and Limnoliyiis proposed 

 by Marsh and Leidy, and there is no question as to Leidy's priority. 

 Leidy des(;ribed the genus Palaeosyops three months before Marsh 

 published his preliminary notice, in which he describes his Palaeosyops 

 laticeps. Cope did not attempt to determine the original types of 

 Leidy from which the genus and s|)ecies, Palaeosyops paludosus, was 

 first indicated. After studying Leidy's original specimens, now in the 



1 Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phil. 1870, p. 113- 



*I wish to express my ihanks to Prof. G. Brown Goode, Prof. Angelo Heil- 

 prin, and Prof. O. C. Marsh for these privileges. 




1891.] NATURAL SCIENCES OI-^ PHILADELPHIA. 107 



Nationiil Museuii), wliieli he described,' and wliieh later he figured.'^ 

 I am convinced that they belong to the large species of Palaeosyops, 

 namely that which Leidy subsequently named P. major. Second : 

 that the smaller forms later referred by Leidy to P. paludosus were 

 quite distinct from his types of this species. Therefore, as the 

 original specimens were called P. paludosus and as they were 

 identical with a form which he later called P. major, the latter name 

 is a synonym and nmst drop out. As Leidy's name P. major, was 

 very convenient in designating the relative size of the two species, 

 we pro})ose to call the smaller form Palaeosyops minor=the P. 

 jmlndosus, according to the later use of Leidy, and others. 



I may also add that Cope's P. laevidens is a different form from 

 this smaller species of Leidy, so that Cope's specitic name cannot • 

 be used. 



Cope^ accepts Marsh's statement that the original specimens fig- 

 ured by Leidy belong to Limnohyus ; this is, I think, an error as 

 the teeth are much larger, and correspond in every respect with 

 Leidv's P. major. Marsh's statement that the teeth of his P. lat'i- 

 ceps have the same general structure as Leidy's smaller species — 

 namely his P. paludosus, is also incorrect. I have examined both 

 types, and I shall show later that the two forms are quite distinct — 

 one api)roaching the Telmatother'tum form of molar, the other type 

 being more like the typical molar found in P. paludosus. ]\Iarsh's 

 type of his genus Telmatotherium* agrees in all particulars with 

 the type of Scott and Osborn's Learocephalus,^ so that the latter 

 genus must become a synonym of Telmatotherium. Scott and Osborn's 

 species T. (L.) cultridens, I retain as a good species, and it has very 

 interesting characters which place it rather lower in the scale than 

 the 2\ validus of Marsh. The skull figured by Scott and Osborn in 

 their report for 1877 as P. paludosus, should be referred to jNlarsh's 

 genus Limuohyops. Its general form is very different from Palaeo- 

 syops, as will be shown later. After carefully considering the nu\t- 

 ter of uniting the various genera into one, I am of the opinion that 



1 Oi). cit., p. 113. 



2 U. S. Geol. Survey of the Ter., Vol. I, 1873, Plate V, fig. 5, and pi. XXIII, 

 fi-s. 3-t) 



^ Teitiary Verlebrata, p. 698. 



* Am. Jour. .Science ami Arts, vol. IV, pub. July 22nd, 1872. 

 5 E. M. Museum Bulleiin. No. 1, Report Piinceton Scientific Expedition 

 Sept. Tth, 1878. 




108 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



Telmatotherium may be retained, and that Limnohytis, or as it i.< now 

 called, Limnohyops, should not have a generic value equal to that of 

 Teiinatotherium. 



Tlie type specimen of the genus Limnohyops is very closely re- 

 lated to that of Pdlaeosyops in the teeth structure, and we have good 

 reasons for supposing that the presence of the hypocone on the last 

 superior molar is a transition character, which is not available 

 for generic definition. The presence of a rudimentary hypocone on 

 the last superior niolai' oi' Palaeosyops paludosus is not an uncom- 

 mon occurrence. The premaxillary regions of Limnohyops and 

 Palaeosyops are identical although the skull contours are very dif- 

 ferent. The generic reference of Leidy's smaller species of Palaeo- 

 syops, our P. minor, is uncertain, very little being known of the skull 

 or of the limb bones. The characters of the molars (see his figs., 

 PI. IV, figs. S-fi) are closely similar to those of Telmatotherium, 

 they have the square form observed in that genus. 



We may now give a brief diagnosis of the more important char- 

 acters of the different genera and species, and also add an analyt- 

 ical table for comparison : — 



I. Last superior molar with only one internal cone. 



A. External lobes of superior premolars separated Palaeosyops. 



a. size, large. 



Inferior molars stout and broad, post, tubercle a cone 



P. paludosus. 

 Inferior molars high, and long, post, tubercle a cone P. vallidens. 



b. size, medium. 



Superior premolar II with one external lobe P. laevidens. 



Superior premolar II with two external lobes P. minor. 



c. size, small. 



Superior premolar IV with a protoconule P. borealis. 



B. External lobes of superior premolars straight. 



Telmatotherium. 



a. sup. premolar II with rudimentary internal lobe 



T. cultridens. 



b. sup. premolar II witli internal lobe T. validus. 



II. Last superior molar witli two internal cones Limnohyops. 



a. size, large. 

 Hypocone of last upper molar one half size of protocone 



L. laticeps. 




1891.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



109 



b. size, small. 

 Hvpocone of last upper molar about equal to protocone 



L. fontinalis. 

 Incertae sedis. 



Symphysis of lower jaw extremely long and narrow 



P. hyognathus. 

 Distal extremity of nasals expanded P. viegarhinus. 



PALAEOSYOPS Leid}- {=Liinnohyus Marsh). 



P. paludosiis Leidy, type species — type specimen in National 

 Museum. (Synonyms P. major Leidy). 



1 . P, minor, Earle, sp. nov. 



Type speciraen=:specimen referred to P. pahidosus by Leidy in 

 Museum of Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. 



2. /'. laticeps, Mar.-h. 



Type, skull, etc., in Yale College Museum. 



The following diagnosis may define Palaeosyops : 



Last superior molar usually with one internal 

 c o n e. 



Intermediate tubercles well developed. 



Crowns of molars not prominent. 



External c u s p s o f s u ji e r i o r p r e m o 1 a r s separated. 



Second superior p r e m o 1 a r w i t h a well defined 

 internal lobe. 



The form of the superior molar in this genus is very characteristic, 

 and differs quite radically from that of Telmatotherkmi. The trans- 

 verse diameter of the tooth is greater than the antero-posterior. 

 The external V's are round and shallow. Tlie anterior buttress is 

 widely prolonged. The median buttress is not constricted off; there 

 is generally no external cingulum. The crowns of the teeth are low, 

 and the intermediate conules are strongly developed. Marsh has 



Second superior molar of 



1. Palaeosyops pahidosus\.€\^>y. 2. Limiiokyops la/iceps ^\a.\%h. 3. Fol- 

 aeosyops minor Sp. nov. and 4. Telmatotherium cultridens S. & O. f natural size, 

 pa.^paracone, me.=metacone, pr.^protocone, hy.==liypocone, pl.=:protoconule, 

 ml.=metaconule. 




110 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



pointed out the difference between the preraaxiUar}' regions of 

 Palaeosyops and Telmatother'mw . In the former genus the preniaxil- 

 laries are short and de})ressed, their symphysis is very short and round, 

 their anterior aspect is convex. The zygomatic arch in Palaeosyops 

 is strong and decurved, and the form of the head is more like that 

 of the Tapir than in the other genera. 



1. Palaeosyops paludosus (Leidy.) 



Syn. (P. major Leidy) (Limnohyns rohttstus Marsh.) 



Protoconules of superior true molars large, and 

 always present, external cingulum absent. 



Transverse diameter of first superior molar 

 g r e a t e r t h a n that o f 1 a s t p r e m o 1 a r, p o s t e r i o r tu- 

 bercle of last inferior molar e o n e - li k e, and me- 

 dian in ]) o s t e r i o r. 



This is the largest species of the genus. It was, as we have seen, 

 first described as P. paludosus, and later, from more abundant mate- 

 rial, was designated as P. major. 



The teeth of P. paludosns are very large, being wide and rather 

 short, the external V's are characteristic of the species, being shal- 

 low, with very prominent anterior buttresses on the true molars, 

 their median buttress is not constricted off, but is rounded and open 

 internally. The intermediate conules of P. paludosus are very 

 strongly developed, the external lobes of the superior molars are 

 entirely without a cingulum, their anterior cingulaare present, and. 

 the internal cingula incomplete. The last three premolars have 

 well developed internal cones, with generally incomplete internal 

 cingula, the external lobes of the last premolar are equal, and the 

 premolars are not provided with the prominent cingula seen in Tel- 

 matothermm. The inferior molars are short and broad, with low 

 crowns. The last inferior molar is a very characteristic tooth 

 in the species : it is very short and heavy, its posterior tubercle is 

 much smaller than the anterior portions of the tooth, is placed 

 median in relation to the external lobes, and is not provided with 

 the strong lateral crests and median valley seen in Telmatotherimn. 

 The skull in P. paludosns is broad and massive, its posterior portion 

 is quite like that of the Tapir, the frontal region being higher than 

 the occipital, but differing very much from that of the Tapir in the 

 nasals, which were short and broad, and reached so far forward as 

 to overhang the premaxillary symphysis. From the structure of 

 the facial region, I conclude that this species was provided, if at all, 




189].] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. Ill 



with a very rudimentary proboscis. The malar insertion is grad- 

 ual and not abrupt as seen in other species of the family. The audi- 

 tory processes were distinct, the post glenoid being long and rather 

 stout; the internal glenoid process is Avantingin this species, and the 

 paroccipitals were provided with a terminal styloid process. 



The symphysis of the lower jaw is rather short, the posterior third 

 of the lower border of jaw strongly inflected, with the angle of the 

 same turned outwards. 



2. Palaeosyops laevidens Cope.i {not P. /><7/»e/os!fs f^eidj.) 



Second superior premolar with only one exter- 

 nal lobe, external lobes of true molars without 

 c i n g u 1 a. C r o w n s o f m o 1 a r s low. 



This species was described by Prof Cope from the characters of 

 the second premolar as above defined. Prof Cope himself was not 

 certain that his species was distinct from Leidy's form, but I have 

 examined both of the types and find them quite different. Cope's 

 P. laevidens has the molar form of a ty[)ical Palaeosyops, and not 

 the square shaped tooth of Tebnatotherium. which the smaller species 

 of Leidy so closely resembles. 



3. Palaeosyops borealis ('oi)e.* 



Molars of a square form with traces of trans- 

 verse ridges, intermediate c o n u 1 e s small, last 

 superior premolar with well marked p r o t o c o n u 1 e, 

 size V e r y s m a 1 1. 



This, I believe, is the only si)ecies of Palaeosyops from the Wind 

 River Eocene, it is very much smaller than the other forms, being 

 perhaps about one-half the size of P. paludosus. 



4. Palaeosyops vallidens Cope.^ 



jM o 1 a r s long and narrow with high crowns, pos- 

 terior tubercle of last molar a cone, inferior 

 border lower jaw straight and not inflected. 



The lower jaw figured by Cope*- will form the type of this species. 

 Prof. Cope also figured a series of upper molars under the name of 

 this species. He speaks of this series and the lower jaw not being 



1 Annual report U. S. Geol. Survey Terr. 1872 (1873) p. 591. 



2 American Naturalist, 1880, p. 746. 



3 Palaeontological Bulletin No. 7, p. 1, Aug. 22nd, 1872. 

 * Tertiary Vertebrata, PI. 52, fig. 3. 




112 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



found together, and concludes that they probably belong to differ- 

 ent species. I agree with him in this view, and consider that the 

 superior molars should be referred to Marsh's form of Tebnatothe- 

 rium validus, as they have all the general characters of that spe- 

 cies, and differ from T. cidtridens in having a well defined internal 

 lobe to the second superior premolar. 



The last molar in the jaw above referred to is interesting, as it 

 shows in some respects transition characters between Palaeosyops 

 and Telmatotherium. 

 5. Palaeosyops minor, sp, n >v. 



Second superior premolar w i t h two external 

 lobes, external lobes of last superior premolar 

 equal. Intermediate conules of true molars re- 

 duced, a strong external cingulum present. 



P. minor embraces specimens which Leidy erroneously described 

 as P. pahidosus, figs. 3-6, Plate IV of Leidy's report for 1873. 

 The material relating to this species is very scarce, being mostly 

 represented by scattered teeth, and one complete series of upper 

 molars in the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. 

 There is also in the collection, a lower jaw with teeth nearly 

 complete, which Leidy referred to this species. Leidy figures a 

 series of up})er molars with a portion of the facial region attached. 

 This specimen I have not been alile to see. I believe it is in a 

 private collection. The following molar characters will be seen to 

 be closely similar to those in Telmatotherium. 



The molars in P. minor have their axes about equal, thus produc- 

 ing a square tooth as is found in Telmatotherium. The external V's 

 are broad and angular, their median buttresses are deeply con- 

 stricted off, the anterior buttress being not widely prolonged as in 

 the largest form. The teeth have rather high crowns and the exter- 

 nal face is provided with a well marked cingulum. The intermedi- 

 ate conules in this species are not strongly marked. The transverse 

 diameter of the last premolar is about equal to that of the first true 

 molar; all the premolars have incomplete internal cingula, the inter- 

 nal lobes of the premolars are more pointed than in P. paludosus, 

 and are apt to be concave toward the external side. 



I have examined two series of upper molars of this species^ and in 

 both cases the second superior premolar was provided with two well 



^ Leidy figures (op. cit. pi. IV, figs. 3-4) a series of superior molars of this 

 species, in which the second premolar has only one external lobe? 




1891.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



113 



defined external lobes, so that Cope's P. laevidens does not come 

 within the definition of this species; then again the form of the mo- 

 lars, the presence of strong cingula, etc., differ very much from 

 those in Cope's species. I am able to add nothing to the skull 

 characters, as the material that I have examined contained no skulls 



■\^:K 



Fig 2. 



Internal and ventral view of the ]-iremaxillary region 1 and 8, Palaeosyops pal- 

 udosus Leidy. 2 and 4, Tebtiatotheriuin cultridens S. & O. 



referable to this species, and, in fact, I may add here that this is not 

 the common species of Palaeosyops, the species P. paludosus, above 

 described, being the most common form. 



LIMNOHYOPS Marsli 



(embraces Palaeosyops as emj)loyed by Marsh, Limnohyus as em- 

 ployed by Leidy and others). 



Molars with 1 o \v crowns, rounded external lobes, 

 well developed intermediate tubercles, well 

 marked, transverse crests may be present on su- 

 p e r i r m o 1 a r s, t h e 1 a s t u p p e r m o 1 a r with two in- 

 ternal cones. 




114 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



1. Limnohyops laticeps Maish. 



(Syn. Palaeosyops laticeps Marsh, and Liinnohyus laticeps Leidy). 



Protocone of last superior molar twice the 

 height of hypocone. Paracone (jf last superior 

 premolar much larger than m e t a c o n e. 



This species has been placed under several genera, Mar^sh having 

 overlooked Leidy's earlier description. It has now been pUiced 

 in the genus Limnohyops.^ The teeth characters of Limnohyops 

 are very different from those of Leidy's smaller species of Palaeo- 

 syops. 1 differ from Prof. Marsh in supposing that Leidy's original 

 type belonged to Limnohyus. I have shown above the true position 

 of the original specimens. 



We are fortunate in having in the Princeton collection a skull of 

 this genus, with the occipital region complete. There are also a few 

 teeth in the collection, which I refer to this genus, *The dentition 

 of this species is closely allied to P. paludosus. The teeth have 

 low crowns without external cingula, the external V's are shal- 

 low, and round, and have the general characters of the above 

 species, the intermediate conules in the species are well developed. 

 One character found in this species quite different from that in P. 

 paludosus is that well defined transverse ridges are developed, connect- 

 ing the internal cones with the external lobes of the molars. These 

 ridges are small, but plainly to be seen. The hypocone of the last 

 upper molar is much smaller than the protocone. The presence of 

 the hypocone on the last molar (as already spoken of) I consider as 

 transitional, arising from a condition found in P. paludosus, where 

 this cone is often rudimentary. The transverse diameters of premolar 

 4 and molar 1 are nearly equal, differing in this respect from those 

 in P. paludosus. The skull contour of L. laticeps is very different 

 from that of P. paludosus. The occipital region is higher than the 

 frontal, resembling in this respect the Rhinoceros. The sagittal and 

 lambdoidal crests are extremely heavy, and widely overhang the 

 supra-occipital region. The nasals are more slender and longer than 

 in P. paludosus. The premaxillaries resemble those found in P. 

 paludosus, being short and depressed with a very short symphysis. 

 The malar insertion is abrupt with the middle portion of the arch 

 rounded, the infra-orbital foramen is exposed. The zygomatic arch 

 is wide spreading and heavy. The post glenoid process is rather 

 long and curved forward. An internal glenoid process is present in 



^ Am. Joiiin. Science, June, 1890, page 525. 




1891.] NATURAL SCIENCI':S OF PHILADELPHIA, 115 



this species. The post-tympanic process is broad and separated from 

 the glenoid. The occipital region is low, broad and deeply concave 

 superiorly. The carpus in L. laticeps is very characteristic, being 

 much lighter than P. paludosus, with the facets and axis of the same 

 arranged differently. L. laticeps was probably about the same 

 height as P. paludosus, but was a more agile and slender form. 

 2. Limnoliyops fontinalis Cope.^ 



Internal cones of last superior molar nearly 

 equal. First upper molar much smaller than sec- 

 ond, size small. 



This is a strongly marked species, being about one-half the size 

 of L. laticeps. The form of the skull in L. fontinalis closely resem- 

 bles that in L. laticeps, although more depressed than in that spe- 

 cies. The malar insertion is similar to the above form with an ex- 

 posed infra-orbital foramen. AVe consider Cope's L. diaconus not a 

 good species. 



TELMATOTHERIUM Mar,<li. 



(Syn. Leurocephalus S. & O.) 



Incisors with strong basal ridges. Canines 

 compressed with sharp cutting ridges. Molars 

 resembling Palaeosyops, but with iiigher and 

 more pointed crowns, the intermediate tubercles 

 may be nearly wanting in this genus, external 

 lobes of premolars nearly straight with no me- 

 dian buttresses. Hypocone of last superior 

 molar very much reduced. 



The two species of this genus, namely T. validus and T. cultri- 

 dens, have their molar characters nearly identical, the specific dif- 

 ferences being in their intermediate tubercles and in the form of 

 the second superior premolar. C()pe's species P. vallidens (at least 

 the upper molars which he referred to that species) should be placed 

 under T. validus Marsh. 



The teeth in the genus Telmatotherium are easily distinguished 

 from those of Palaeosyops, they have a square form, with high 

 crowns and prominent cusps, the external V's are broad and angu- 

 lar, the anterior buttress is not prolonged, and the median one is 

 large and widely constricted off, the external face of the teeth are 

 provided with a prominent cingulum, outer face of premolars straight, 



1 Palaeontological Bulletin No. 11, p. 1, Jan. 31st, 1873. 




116 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADKMY OF [1891. 



and the second superior premolar may have a rudimentary or well 

 defined internal cone. The premaxillaries are high and compressed, 

 with an elongated median suture. They are very different from 

 those of Palaeosyops, in which their form- is short and depressed. 

 The zygomatic arch in Telmatotherinm is straighter and lighter 

 than in Palaeosyops. 



The following characters may define the two species of this 

 genus : 



1. Telmatotherium validus Marsh. 



Second superior premolar with a well developed 

 internal lobe, last upper molar without rudimen- 

 tary hypocone. 



The intermediate tubercles in this species are more developed than 

 in T. cultridens, the first molar has a protoconule, the second has 

 this tubercle also present, the third molar with both intermediate 

 tubercles. The last two upper premolars have their internal cingula 

 incomplete. 



2. Telmatotherium cultridens S. A 0. {Leurocephalus cultridefis S. k 0.). 

 Second superior premolar with rudimentary in- 

 ternal lobe, last superior molar with a rudimen- 

 tary hypocone. 



The intermediate tubercles in this species are very much reduced, 

 the protoconules of the first upper molar only being present. The 

 internal basal cingulum of the last two upper premolars is complete. 



The two species above defined may be merely well marked 

 varieties, but the material relating to them is not abundant, and we 

 may leave them for the present as above given. 



I shall leave for my final paper the treatment of the relationshij) 

 between the genera and species in this family, and I will merely add 

 that it includes two well marked forms of teeth : namely that of 

 Palaeosyops, with low crowns and large intermediate tubercles, and 

 that of Telmatotherium with very high crowns and reduced tubercles. 

 It is the latter form of molar which I believe has led up directly to 

 Diplacodon and not Palaeosyops, as generally stated, the latter genus 

 having been the ancestor of Telmatotherium. 



Incertae .sedis. 

 Palaeosyops hyognathus S. & 0. ^ 



Types. — Lower jaw No. 10,273 in Princeton Museum. 

 Symphysis extremely long and shallow, canines 



1 The Mammalia of the Uinta Formation, Trans. Am. Piiil. Soc. N. S. Vol. 

 16, Aug. 18S9, p. 513. 




1891.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELrillA. 117 



small and s e m i p r o c u m b e n t . A long diastema 

 anterior and posterior to premolar 1 . 

 Palaeosyops megarhinus Eaile. i 



Type. — Skull Ko. 10,008 in Princeton Museum. 



No diastema in superior dental series, canines 

 very small and wide spreading, superior true 

 molars without external cingulum, distal extrem- 

 ity of nasal expanded. 



1 American Naturalist, Jan., 1891, p. 45. 




118 trockkdings of the academy of [1891. 



February 8. 

 Dr. George H. Horn in the chair. 



Forty-eight persons present. 



Papers under the following titles were presented for publication : — 



" On the External Characters of a Fretal Reindeer and other 

 notes." By K. W. Shiifeldt. 



"Crustacea from the northern coast of Yucatan, the harbor of 

 Vera Cruz, the west coast of Florida and the Bermuda Islands." 

 By J. E. Ives. 



February 10. 

 Dr. George H. Horn in the chair. 



Twenty-seven persons present. 



A paper entitled, "On some recent Japanese Brachiopoda with 

 description of a species believed to be new," by W. H. Dall and 

 H. A. Pilsl)ry, was jiresented for publication. 



Effect of oiviromneiit in the modification of the bill and tail of 

 birds. — Dr. Spenceh Trotter exhibited specimens of several of 

 the common Finches of eastern North America, belonging to the 

 genus Ammodramus. He stated that this genus, as now recognized 

 by American Ornithologists, includes three types of birds formerly 

 considered as representing distinct genera: — Ammodramus, Passer- 

 cidus and Coturniculus. These birds undoubtedly belong to one 

 genus and show very clearly the effect produced by environment in 

 modifying the bill and tail and producing subgenera of birds ori- 

 ginally coming from one stock. The species oi the Fassercidus and 

 Coinrnicxdus groups are inhabitants of the uplands and subsist 

 mainly upon seeds which they pick u]) frou) the ground. All these 

 birds have the short thick bill which characterizes so many of the 

 Finch tribe. The true Ammodrami, however, as exemplified by the 

 Sharp-tailed and Seaside Finches inhabit the salt marshes of the 

 coast and subsist on the small Crustacea and worms. In obtaining 

 these animals they are com])elled to probe in the soft mud in which 

 they live and this necessity, acting through numerous generations, 

 has produced the longer and more slender bill which characterizes 

 these birds. The habit of clinging to the long slender reeds of the 

 marshes and the effort to retain their perch when the reeds are 

 swayed about by the wind has tended to produce stronger and 

 larger feet in the true Ammodrami and to develope stiff pointed 




1891.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 119 



tail feathers in contrast to the soft rounded tail featiiei's of tlie Sav- 

 annah Sparrow and other nearly related upland Finches. 



The speaker also stated that in the Bobolink, another inhabitant 

 of reedy marshes, and in the Woodpeckers and Creepers which cling 

 to the perpendicular trunks of trees, this modification of the tail 

 was very clearly shown. In the case of the Nuthatch, however, 

 which has similar habits to the Woodpecker and Creeper, the tail 

 feathers remain soft and rounded. Mr. Witmer Stone had called 

 the speaker's attention to this fact and had further suggested that 

 the failure to develop stiff-pointed tail feathers in the case of the 

 Nuthatch was probably due to the bird's habit of traveling down 

 the ti'ee trunks instead of uj), with the head directed towaids the 

 ground. Being thus unable to utilize the tail as a means of support, 

 there has been no opportunity for environment to act in modifying 

 its structure. 



Tlie Sandstones of Chester Valley, Pennsylvania. — The following 

 communication was read from Mr. Theo. D. Rand: — 



I desire to announce to the Academy the finding of a rock with 

 all the characteristics of Potsdam sandstone, on the south side of 

 tlie limestone of the Chester Valley. The existence of a sandstone, 

 supposed to be the Potsdam, ou the south as well as on the north 

 side of the valley was noted by Prof. Rogers, but no full description 

 of it was given and his observations have been doubted. The Sec- 

 ond Geological Survey failed to find it, indeed laid stress on its 

 absence. The sandstone south of King of Prussia was described by 

 the late Prof. Lewis and myself, but nothing was observed to deter- 

 mine its age. 



' The construction by the Pennsylvania Railmad of a branch from 

 near Downingtown to Trenton has affbi'ded a better opportunitv of 

 exanMuing the rocks of this region than any heretofore had. 



This branch, known as the Trenton Cutoff Railroad, leaves the 

 main line at Glen Loch 2o"3 miles northwest of Philadelphia and 

 goes in a nearly straight line, varying little from X. 70° E. At Glen 

 Loch it is in the hydromica, thence passes into limestone (No 2), 

 witii usually much soil overlying; the dip l)eing steep to southeast. 



Nearly north of Paoli Station the railroad curves slightly toward 

 the south, crosses the road running north from Paoli Station, and 

 then enters a considerable cut. This cut is in a very sandy slate, or 

 slaty sandstone, and in this is one stratum which has the rhom- 

 boidal jointings, the micaceous partings and the minute tourma- 

 lines, so characteristic of the Potsdam in this part of Pennsylvania. 



The road running north from Paoli Station through hydromica 

 schist, crosses, near the north foot of the South Valley Hill, a jjroni- 

 inent outcrop of the hydromica schist, here almost rooting slate, dip- 

 ing 90° to 70°, S. 35°"E;. ; about an eighth of a mile north of this, 

 traces of the sandstone may be seen where the road bed has been 

 lowered to j^ermit the branch railroad to ])ass over it. The luit 




120 PKOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1801. 



mentioned is about an eighth of a mile east of this. The sandstone 

 dips about S. 10° E., 30°. 



Study of this region forced me to believe in the correctness of 

 Mr. Hall's conclusion that the hydromica of the South Valley Hill 

 overlies the limestone, and further, that the sandstone and lime- 

 stone of Cream Valley are the Potsdam and limestone of the Ches- 

 ter Valley rising on the southeasterly leg of the synclinal which in- 

 cludes the hydromica. But if this sandstcme north of Paoli is Pots- 

 dam, occurring as it does between the limestone and the hydromica^ 

 this theory is untenable and the theory of Prof Rogers and of Dr. 

 Frazer that the hydromica is older than the Potsdam must be cor- 

 rect. It is my wish to study this further but I desire to record the 

 observation at once while the exposure is favorable for study, that 

 others may have the opportunity to examine it. 



February 17. 



The President, Dr. Leidy, in the chair. 



A paper entitled, " Notes on some little-known American fossil 

 Tortoises," by Dr. G. Baur, was presented for publication. 



On the Age of the Pence Creek Beds, Florida. — The following 

 coranumication from Mr. Wm. H. Da el was read by the Presi- 

 dent: — 



" I am just back from Florida and have been exploring Peace 

 Creek where the fossil bones are found and have determined the 

 stratigraphical I'elation of the beds they come out of. I thought 

 you would like to know about it. They are under Marine Pliocene 

 beds corresponding to part of the Caloosahatchie beds and overlie 

 or are mixed with older Pliocene phosphatized rock which has 

 many of the Caloosahatchie shells in it but which on the whole seems 

 rather older. The bones then, — that is those from Peace Creek, 

 which are all derived from one original stratum not over two feet 

 thick, — are older Pliocene beyond any question. I found actually 

 in the bed mastodon, manatee, horse, glyptodon and l)ig turtle with 

 others I did not recognize. I did not try to collect much, as my 

 visit was hurried. I saw^ also beautiful Pliocene rock from Wakulla 

 Co., with bones actually in it, as well as finely preserved casts of 

 Pliocene shells. I think the big Elephas colinnbi is older than the 

 forms above mentioned, at all events sections of its tusks are found 

 right on top of the Miocene near Bartow and their state of fossiliza- 

 tion is much more complete than in the case of the bones from the 

 clay or Peace Creek beds." 



On. a probable new species of Bipalium. — Dr. Benjamin Sharp 

 called attention to a large land Planarian, which had been given to 




1891.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 121 



him by Dr. Emily Hunt, who had obtained it from a green-house 

 at Lansdowne, Pa. 



The land Planarian?, according to most authorities, are carnivo- 

 rous and nocturnal. The reproduction of Planarians by division 

 or fission had been known since the publication of Dalyell's valua- 

 ble researches in 1(S14/ but as far as the speaker was informed, it 

 had never been observed in land Planarians. In the specimen 

 in his possession, a portion of the posterior end of the animal 

 became detached at two different times. These pieces are still living 

 and active, one being ten days and the other two weeks old. 



The mouth in the land Planarians, as is the case Avith most of the 

 forms, is situated near the middle of the body and opening on its 

 under surface. One species of BipaUum, named by Schmarda'' 

 Sphirocephalns dendrophiliis, presents a remarkable form of nerve 

 system widely differing in complexity and arrangement from that 

 of any other known Phmarian. In the expanded or lobed anterior 

 portion of the body (the so-called head) is situated a nerve ring 

 closely resembling the oesophageal ring of the higher worms, and 

 from this pass posteriorly two nerve-trunks joined by commissures 

 or ganglia (?), strongly suggesting the segmented arrangement of 

 the nerve system of the Annelids. 



This form of nerve system suggests two very interesting (juestions : 

 Are the land Planarians progressing toward a segmented type, or 

 are they degenerutions from such a type ? The fact that the complete 

 oesopiiageal ring does not surround the cesophagus and that the 

 mouth is situated some distance posterior to it, would lead to the 

 supposition that the present mouth is not the primitive one and that 

 the oesophageal ring indicates where that primitive mouth once ex- 

 isted. The speaker was inclined to l)elieve that this form of nerve 

 system indicated rather a degeneration from a higher type than an 

 evolution toward a more com])lex one. 



He inclined to believe that the specimen under consideration re- 

 presents a new species of the genus Bipalium. When in the ex- 

 tended condition it measured nine and a half inches ; before the 

 loss of its posterior end it was })robably ten or eleven inches in 

 length. In breadth, in its extended condition, it measured one- 

 seventh of an inch; in thickness about one-tenth of an inch. The 

 expanded head was roughly semicircular, measuring one-fourth of 

 an inch across and one-fifth of an inch in length, i. e. from what 

 might he called the neck to the anterior margin. As far as discov- 

 erable by means of a hand-lens no eye-spots or ocelli could be de- 

 tected, but these mnv exist and if so, will be revealed by sections 

 when examined under a higher power. 



^ J. G. Dalveil. 0'o-;ervalions on some inlerestins Plienomena in Animal 

 Physiology, exhibited by several species of Plananae. Edinburgh, 1814. 



2 L. K. Schmtrdi. Neue wirbellose Thiere, beobachtet und gesammelt nuf 

 einer Reiss um (be Erie. Band I. Neue Turbellnrien, Rotorien und Anneliden. 

 Erste llaelRe. Leipzig, 18G1. Pages 36 and 37, Plate VIII, fig. 83. 



9 




122 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



The tail is rounded and uot pointed, as in most of the species of 

 this genus; the body in the extended condition, does not taper but 

 holds the same breadth and thickness from the neck to the end of 

 the tail. The ground color of the animal is grayish-j^ellow, which 

 is traversed by five longitudinal i)lack bands, the central one being 

 the broadest and those at each side of this quite iaint. The exter- 

 nal bands are marginal from the neck some distance backward, 

 whence they run inside the mai-gin to the tail where they join. The 

 two pairs of lateral bands coalesce at the region of the neck and 

 none of the bands are extended into the expanded head which differs 

 from the rest of the animal in being of a grayish color. 



Stimpson's' species, i>. virgatum from Loo Choo, seems to be most 

 nearly related to this supposed new species. The colors, however, 

 differ, the median band passes into the head and the margins of the 

 head and neck are thickly set with ocelli. This species is small, 

 measuring only two inches in length. 



The name Bipalium manubriatum was proposed for the new 

 species of which an anatomical description and figures will pro- 

 bably be published at a later date. 



Note on the Boring Sponge of the Oyster. — Prof. Leidy remarked 

 that in a recent letter receiver! from Mr. H. J. Carter, of England, 

 the able authority on the Porifera, he had directed his attention to 

 a catalogue of sponges collected by Mr. Willcox on the coast of 

 Florida published in our Proceedings, 1884, j). 202, in which he in- 

 dicates the usual massive, solid form of Raphyrus Grlffithsii, Bk., as 

 the boring sponge of the oyster CHona celata, and further points out 

 a branched tubular variety, the same as that described later by Prof. 

 Leidy as Cliona phalica, under the name of " ramotubulata." 



In a recent " Report on the Porifera," by R. Hanitsch, of Liver- 

 pool, received from the author, he agrees with the speaker and Mr. 

 Carter, that the boring sponge of the oyster, both of our shores 

 and those of Europe, and the massive forms, represented by the 

 Baphyrm Grijfithsii of Bowerbank, all belong to the one species, 

 the Cliona celata of Grant. 



February 24. 



Dr. Daniel G. Brinton in the chair. 



Twenty-five persons present. 



A i:aper entitled, " Echinoderms and Arthropods from Japan," 

 by J. E. Ives, was presented for publication. 



1 W. Stimpson. Prodromus (lesciiptionis animalium evertebratoium quae 

 in.Expeditione ad Oceanum Pacificum Septentrionalem a Rcpublica Federate 

 mis'^a. [ohanne Rodgeis duce, oliservavit et descripsit W. Stimpson. Proc. Acad. 

 Nat. Sci. Philadelphia, 1857, p. 31). 




1891.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 123 



The death of William Massey, a member, February 16th, was 

 announced. 



The following were elected members : — Wra. S. Stewart M. D., 

 Henry T. Coates, Richard D. Barclay, Wm. C. Carrick and Samuel 

 N. Rhoads. 



The following were ordered to be printed: — 




124 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



A REVIEW OF THE CRETACEOUS MAMMALIA.i 

 BY HENRY FAIRFIELD OSBORN. 



In July, 1889, I received a copy of the " Discovery of the Creta- 

 ceous Mammalia"' by Professor O. C. Marsh, and shortly after- 

 wards wrote to the author calling attention to all the points in 

 which it appeared to me he was mistaken and suggested that he 

 should revise the paper himself. 



Tins was a year and a half ago. In the meantime the paper has 

 been widely distributed and its facts have been accepted without 

 question by many who have no special knowledge of the Mesozoic 

 mammals and with considerable hesitation and criticism by those 

 who have. I refer especially to the notices by Lydekker,' Lemoine,* 

 Cope^ and Dames.'' It seems, therefore, that it is now best to care- 

 fully review, in a manner which cannot be misunderstood either by 

 the author or by others, what appears to me to be one of the most 

 remarkable contributions to palteontology ever published. Criti- 

 cism can, of course, be based only upon the published diagnoses, 

 descriptions and figures in comparison with our present general 

 knowledge of these early mammals. Other evidence is promised by 

 the author and I venture to predict that it will confirm the greater 

 part of the conclusions reached in this review. 



First as to extent and general character: the conspectus of the 

 author impresses us that this fauna is not only highly varied but 

 contains forms which are mostly new to science. Four orders are 

 believed to be repre.sented, the Allotheria, Pantotheria, Marsupialia 

 and Insectivora. The author finds six families among the Allothe- 

 ria alone, four of which are new ; five new families in all. Sixteen 

 new genera and twenty-seven new species are described. All of the 

 types are isolated teeth, excepting those of Camptomus. With the 

 exception of Halodoii, Cimolomys and Dipriodon, only one tooth of 



1 Presented to the Sociely of Morpholo^i>ts, Boston, Dec. 30tli, 1890; to the 

 Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, Tuesday, Jan. 20th, 1891. 



* " The Discovery of the Cretaceous Mammalia." O. C. Marsh, American 

 Journal of Science, Parts I. and II., July and August, 1889. 



3 Manual of Palaeontology, Vol. II, p. 12C8. 



* Academy of Sciences, Paris, March 3ii, 1890. 



5 American Naturalist, June, 1889, p. 490. 



6 Neues Jahrb. f. Geol. Min. u. Pal. 1890, p. 141-3. 




1891.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 125 



each species is described, i. e. from different parts of the jaws, and 

 we are given to understand that the associated teeth, found with 

 each, will be described in the Memoir now in preparation by the 

 writer under the auspice? of the United States Geological Survey. 



Before this varied faunal table is generally adopted into palteon- 

 tological literature, let us examine the author's types and diagnoses, 

 keeping in mind the present state of knowledge. Previous litera- 

 ture has apparently not been consulted by the author except in the 

 matter of nomenclature. The result is that some well-known prin- 

 ciples which govern the extremely complex and confusing dentition 

 of the Multituberculates are left out of consideration entirely, as 

 well as some of the main characters of the dentition of the Mesozoic 

 mammals in general, and some characters which enable us to dis- 

 tinguish between the teeth of mammals and those of reptiles and 

 fishes. As regards the ^Multituberculates (Allotheria), it is now 

 well known that their teeth show the following characters : 



1. The rows of tubercles in the true molars of one jaw fit into the 

 longitudinal grooves of the molars of the other jaw. 2. In some 

 families there are three rows of tubercles and two grooves in the up- 

 per molars and two rows with one groove in the lower molars (Pla- 

 giaulacidae) ; in other families there are conversely two rows above 

 and three below. 3. In every known species, the last molar is in- 

 variably simpler than the penultimate molar both as to length of 

 crown and number of tubercles. 4. That the premolars are of two 

 types: a. trenchant, b. tubercular. When tubercular they can be 

 distinguished from the molars by the absence of grooves, or closure 

 of the grooves by tubercles. 5. The primary function of the inci- 

 sors is to pierce the food, the secondary function is to facilitate the 

 backward motion of the jaws as in the rodents. 



As regards the ordinal terms, Allotheria and Pantotheria, they 

 have not as yet been defined' or adopted. The former is equivalent 

 to ISIultituberculata which has been defined and is now in general 

 use.* 



A. MULTITUBERCULATE FORMS, (AlLOTHERIA.) 



1. Cimolomys gracilis, (PI. II, figs. 1-4), described as an upper 

 molar ; first referred to Tritylodontidae (Owen), subsequently to new 



^ See Oshorn, " Mesozoic Mammalia,"' p. 257. 



2 See the works of Lydelvker, Lemoine, Doderlein, Troiiessart, Schlosser, Os- 

 born and others. 




126 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1891. 



family Cimolomidae. — Comparing this type with the upper molar of 

 Neo2jlagi(mlax,^ IjQmome, we find it is a first upper molar of 

 one of the Plaglaulacidae, Gill. 



2. Cimolomys hellus, (no figure), the type is referred to a distinct 

 species of Cimolomys. — The description and measurements indicate 

 that it is a second u ji p e r molar of C. gracilis. 



3. Cimolomys digona, (PI. VII, figs. 1-4), the type is described 

 as an upper molar of a third species of this genus, referred to the 

 Cimolomidae. — It is an upper molar of one of the Plagiatilacidae. 



A premolar, (PL VII, figs. 13-16), is rightly described as an up- 

 per premolar and correctly associated with this genus, (compare fig. 

 19, Lemoine"). 



4. Cimolodon nitidus, (PI. II, figs. 5-8). The type is described 

 as an upper molar representing a new genus and family, the 

 Cimolodontidae. — Comparing it with the lower molars of PtHodus,^ 

 Cope, it is evident that the type is a first lower molar of one 

 of the Plagiaulacidae. 



5. Nanomys minuius, (PI. II, figs. 9-12), the type is described as 

 a last upper molar of the left side and referred to the 

 Cimolodontidae. — A comparison with Ptilodus shows that it is a 

 last lower molar of the right side, belonging to one of the 

 Plagiaulacidae.*^ 



6. Halodon sculptus, (PI. Ill, figs. 11-13). The type is a fourth 

 lower premolar rightiy referred to one of the Plagiaulacidae. 



A superior incisor, (PL III, figs. 1-3) is referred to this species. 

 — It apparently belongs to a much larger 

 form. 



7. Halodon serrahis, (PL III, figs. 14- 

 17). The type is a fourth lower premo- 

 lar, a smaller species rightly referred to 

 one of the Plagiaidacidae. 



A superior incisor, (PL III, figs. 14— 

 17) is referred to this species. — It appar- 



Halodon 



Fig. I. 



Fourth inferior 



premolars of a, H. sailptiis ; eutly belongs to a larger form. 



b, H. ^erratus; c H formo- j^ -g ^ ^^jj \^nQ^sn fact that the upper 



sus. Afier Marsh. All type _ , y^ 



specimens. "molars of the Plagiaulacidae have three 



1 " Etude sur le Neoplagiaulax de la Faune Eocene inferieure etc." Bull. d. 

 1. Soc. Geol. de France, Feb. 12, 1883, p. 259. PI. VI, fig. 17. 



2 Op. cit., PL VI, fig. 19e. 



3 This type (C nitidus) has four internal and seven external tubercles; while 

 Plilodus trov(rsarlianus has four internal and six external tubercles. 



•* "The Tertiary Marsupialia," Cope, Am. Nat., July, 1884, p. 694. 




1891.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 127 



rows of tubercles while the lower molars have but two, and that 

 the cusps of the lower rows fit into the valleys of the upper teeth. 

 This is beautifully demonstrated in the author's own figures as here re- 

 produced and rearranged in figure 2 ; — a is the type of Cimolomys 

 gracilis, which fits upon c. the type of Cimolodon nifidu/i; while b, 



the tvpe of Xanomys iiiin- 



Tn.' 



X- 



h 



C 



Fig. 2. Upper and Icrwer Molars of Citnolojnys. 



(Cimo'.omulae), a, Cimolomys gracilis. (Cimo- 



utii^ would ])rol)al)ly be 

 found to coiucitle sinii- 

 hirly with the type of 

 Ciiiioloniys hellus, unfor- 

 tunately not figured by 

 the author. This gives 

 us the chai'acters of the 

 molars of what was possi- 



{^\mo\omMa.c), a, i^urioivmys yriiciiis. iv^imu- , , , ^,. 



lodonlidae), b, Cimolodon nitidus c, Nanomys bly a new genus (C/mo- 

 mimiius. After Marsh. All type specimens. lomxjs) of the Plagiau/a- 



cidae, intermediate between Plagiaulax with three well developed 

 premolars, and Ptilodus with one large and one extremely small pre- 

 molar. This genus cannot at present be defined, l)ecause so far as 

 we can compare the molars and premolars, they closely resemble in 

 size and development the corresponding teeth of Ptilodus. The pre- 

 molars of this genus are, of course, found in the species of Halodon. 

 The premolar referred to H. serratns agrees best in size with the 

 molars of C. gracilis. 



The accompanying restoration of the upper and lower jaws of 

 Cimolomys gracilis shows the various relationships of this animal as 

 given in the above diagnoses by the author : 



■ — Cimolomys gracilis 

 Cimolomys bellus 



llll^S^&^- Isanomys minutus ^ 



Phgiaulacidae -J Halodon " VT^^ j r 



"" ' ' litidus ) 



'^S^}~^ '-■ 



J Halodon 

 ( serratus - 



Ciniolomidae. 



. Cimolodontidae. 



Cimolodon nit 



F'g- 3- 

 Upper and lower molars and premolars f)f ? Cimolomys, in position. 



These relationships will probably be increased, rather than dimin- 

 ished by future discoveries.' As it is, an upper and lower jaw 

 referred to three families, five genera and five specieslis without pre- 

 cedent. 



1 See Allacodon lentus winch belongs either to this genus or to Meniscoessus. 




128 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1891. 



8. Dlpriodon robustus, (PL II, figs. 13-15). The type is proba- 

 bly correctly described as a last upper molar of the left side ; it is 

 referred to a new family the Dipriodon.tidae. 



9. Dlpriodon lunutus, (PI. II, figs. 16-18). The type is riglitly 

 described as a first or second upper molar. — Keeping in mind the 

 larger size and greater complexity of the more anterior molars, there 

 is no ground for referring it to a new species. 



10. Trlprlodoit coelatiis, (PL II, figs. 19-21). The type is de- 

 scribed as a first upper molar and is referred to a new fam- 

 ily the Tripriodontidar — It resembles in the arrangement of its 

 denticles the 1 o w e r m o 1 a r s of Slereognathns, and, as shown be- 

 low, is a last lower molar belonging to the genus Meiilscoes- 

 sus, Cope. 



11. Selenacodon fragiiis, (PL II, figs. 22-24). The type is de- 

 scribed as an upper m o 1 a r distinguished by crescentoid tuber- 

 cles from the foregoing. — It is an anterior 

 1 o w e r m o 1 a r belonging to the genus 3Ien- 

 iscohsus, Cope. 



12. Selenacodon brevis, (PL VII, figs. 9-12). 

 The type is descril)ed as an uj)per tooth 

 apparently from the left side. — As the accom- 

 panying figures show, it agrees in every detail, 



except the degree of wear, with the type oi' Menlscoessus conqiddus. 



Cope; it is a lower molar, probably the last. 



Fig. 3«. 

 iMeuisccessus cotiquis- 

 ttis. Cope. Type. An 

 inferior molar x 'Z. 



Fig. 4. Upper and lower molars of Meniscoessus. 



(Uipriodontidae) a, Dipyicdon robusHis, crown view and end view; li, D. 

 hinalus, CYOv/n \\iiw and end view. ('rripriodonlidae), (J, Iripiiodon coelatus, 

 crown view and end view ; c, Selenacodon frngilis, crown view and end view ; 

 e, S. brevis. After Marsh. All type specimens excepting c. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



129 



1891.] 



The lower incisor (PI. VTII, fig.s. 1-3) is probably correctly re- 

 ferred. 



13. Tripriodon caperatus (PL III, figs. 18-20). The- type is cor- 

 rectly described as a lower incisor. No ground is assigned for re- 

 ferring it to a new species. Similar incisors of smaller size (PI. Ill, 

 figs. 21-22 ; PI. Vltl, figs. 1-3) are referred respectively to Tripri- 

 odon coelatus and Selenacodon brevis. 



This collection of molars demonstrates that Meniscoessns, like 

 Stereorjnathus, belongs to a family in which the tubercles are cre- 

 scentoid and arranged in two rows in the upper molars and three 

 rows in the lower molars. This is admirably .shown in the author's own 

 figures as rearranged in figure 4. o, The type of Dipriodon robm- 

 tus is seen to fit upon b, the type of Tripriodo)t coelatus. d, and c, 

 belong to older individuals but the worn cusps and valleys coincide ; 

 they are respectively the author's ty])es of Dipriodon lunatus, and 



a molar referred to Sel- 

 enacodon fragilis as it 

 agrees exactly with the 

 type except in point of 

 wear. 



The lower incisor, 

 type of Tripriodon cap- 

 eratus, corresponds in 

 size with these mo- 

 lars, the two smaller in- 

 cisors, referred to T. coe- 

 latus and Selenacodon 

 brevis, have tlie same 

 shape and grooved 

 sides. (1) When these 

 incisors are placed side 

 by side as in figure 5 

 with the upper incisors i-eferi-ed by the author to Halodon scidptus 

 and Halodon serratns we observe that the longitudinal and trans- 

 verse diameters of the crowns and fangs coincide exactly in meas- 

 urement, rendering it highly probable that they belong to the same 

 species. (2) The question is, do these teeth belong to Halodon or 

 Menisco'essus f We observe that the lower incisor associated with 



i>. 



Fig- 5- 

 a, '"Upper incisor of Halodon sculptus;'" 

 " Lower incisor of Tripriodon capera/zis," type 

 " Upper incisor of Halodon serratns ;'" d, " Lower 

 incisor oi Se'etiacodon brevis." After Marsh. 




130 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [189L 



Halodon formosus (PL VIII, figs. 32-35), has 

 the enamel confined to a band as in Ptilodus 

 and Xeoplagiaxdax. It is smooth. It is, there- 

 fore, probable that all these striated, completely 

 enamelled incisors belong to Meniscoessus. (3) 

 When moreover it is seen that these incisors are 

 far too large to be associated with the premo- 

 lars of H. scidptus and IT. serratus, we have 

 further grounds for associating them with Men- 

 iscoessus with which they agree in size. The tooth assigned by the 

 author as the upper incisor of Divriodon rohustus apparently be- 

 longs to a reptile. It is unlike any incisor hitherto found with the 

 Multituberculata. 



ce 3 



Fig- 5a- . 

 Toolh determined as 

 an ' upper incisor' of 

 Dipriodon robnsliis. 



Plagiaulacidae. 

 Ilalodon sculptus 



Dipriodontidae. 



Dipriodon lunatus. 



) Dipriodon robustus. 



Tripriodon caperatus ,-- 

 Tripriodontidae. 



7 C^^"^ '/SS^ Tripriodon coelatus. 



[_ Selenacodon fragilis. 



Tripriodontidae. 



Fig. 6. Upper and lower molars of Meniscoessus in position. (Association of incisors with 

 molars conjectural.) 



The accompanying restoration is based upon the foregoing consid- 

 erations and shows that according to the author the relationships of 

 Meniscoessus are as varied as those of its contemporary, Cimolomys, 

 including three families, four genera and seven species. 



14. AUaeodon lentus and A. puniilus (PI. VIII, fig.s. 22-26-31). 

 The types are described as u p p e r molars of a genus related to 

 Allodon and Bolodon and referred to the Allodontidae. — It is a uni- 

 versal characteristic of the molars of the Multituberculata that, as the 

 grooves are adapted to fore and aft wear, the tubercles are arranged 

 on the sides ; in the type of AUaeodon a tubercle stops the valley ; 

 these types are unadapted to fore and aft wear, they are, therefore, 

 probably premolars and belong either with Meniscoessus or Cim- 

 olomys, or possibly with some other genus, the molars of which are 

 not represented in this collection. Upper premolars of this type are 

 seen in Chirox, Cope ; Bolodon, Owen ; and Ctenacodon, Marsh. 




^/'^^ 



1891.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 131 



15. Oraeodon anceps, (PI. VIII, figs. 13-16). This type is rightly 

 described as a premolar, but no grounds are 

 given for considering that it belongs to a dis- 

 tinct genus and species. 



16. Camptomus ampins, (PI. V, figs. 1-2). 

 A/laJdon lentus. The type is a scapula with which are associated 

 After Marsh. Types, other bones, calcaiieum, astragalus, interclavicle. 

 Ko grounds are assigned for separating these remains from genera 

 founded upon the teeth. — The astragalus bears the same proportion 

 to the molar-teeth of Meniscoessus that we observe in Pohj mastodon ; 

 it is also apparently perforated. The affinities of these forms to the 

 Monotremata have been observed by Cope; the coraco-scapular facet, 

 • theref )re, strengthens the supposition that some of these bones at 

 least, belong to Menisco'issns. In any case they cannot be considered 

 as good types. 



This completes the Multituberculate forms. 



B. TpvItuberculate Forms. 



17. Dryolestes tenax, {no figure). The type is a lower jaw with 

 a mvlohyoid groove, in which the number and character of the teeth 

 " cannot be determined." The author's reference is provisional. 



18. Didelphops (Didelphodon) vorax, (PI. IV, figs. 1-3). The 

 type is an upper molar, distinguished from Dldelphys by interme- 

 diate tubercles. — This character does not separate it from the large 

 number of trituberculates with similar molars; the genus is, therefore, 

 undefined at present. The other species D. ferox and D. comptus 

 are also undefinable. 



19. Pediomys elegans, (PI. IV, figs. 23-25). The type is an upper 

 molar. — It is not distinguished generically from Didelpliodnn. 



20. Cimolestes curtus and incisics, (PI. IV, figs. 8-18). The 

 types are lower molars. — Like Didelphodon, these forms cannot be 

 defined, they are tuberculo-sectorial. 



It is evident that we have here remains of two distinct and prob- 

 ablv new genera which may be accepted without definition. 

 C. Incertae sedis. 



21. Starjodon nitor, (PL VII, figs. 22-25). The jtypes are a few 

 teeth with sino-le faugs, referred to a new family the Stagodontidae. 



They do not resemble the teeth of any known mammal although 



described as having two fangs, which are, however, not shown in the 

 figures. The premolar associated is distinctly mammalian. 




132 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



22. Platacodon nanus, (PL VIII, figs. 4-12). The types are cora- 



^..^^^^^ pared to the molars of 



-j^^^f Chri/sochhris. — They do 



not bear the most remote 



^ (2)— / \. <-^ resemblance to the molars 



'"^ ^ of ChrysocJdoris or any 



,0, I . 1 ^ '^' n, , .r other known mammal. 



(btagodontidae), a, Slagodon nilor. After 



Marsh. Types. Prof Dames considers 



b, Platacrdon nmms. After M.irsh. Types, that they belong to the 



Cyprinoid fishes.^ 



The above types do not resemble in the most remote degree the 

 molars in either the multituberculate or trituberculate series — the 

 only two mammalian series hitherto represented in all the discov- 

 eries of Mesozoic or Eocene times. Nor liave they, as figured, any of 

 the characteristics which we expect to find in mammalian teeth.^ 

 They should, therefore, be considered either as reptilian or icthyop- 

 sidan ; we cannot agree with the author that they are " evidently 

 mammalian." 



The above analysis may be summarized under the following heads, 

 we find that the author has : 1. Separated parts which evidently be- 

 long together, vide, various teeth of Cunolomys and Meniscocssus ; 2. 

 United parts which apparently or certainly do not belong together, 

 vide, the large upper incisors with Cimolomys, the reptilian or fish 

 molar of Stagodoii with a mammalian premolar, the reptilian tooth 

 as an upper incisor of Dipriodon ; 3. Associated or identified repti- 

 lian or icthyopsidan teeth as mammalian, vide, Platacodon, Stagodon 

 and incisor of D. robushis. 



The large Cretaceous fauna described by the writer is therefore 

 seen to be principally composed of synonyms. We must eliminate : 



1. The terms preoccupied by other authors. 



2. The terms founded upon different parts of the same animals 

 and thus largely preoccupied by the author himself. 



3. The terms founded upon imperfect or indefinite types. 



4. The terms founded upon reptilian or icthyopsidan teeth. 



^ This author readies conclusions very similar to mine in regard to this paper. 

 Neues Jahr. Min. GeoL, 1890, pp. 141-143. 



2 See H G. Seeley, "On the Nature and Limits of Reptilian Character in 

 Mammalian Teeth." Proc. Roy. Soc, April 4, 1888, p. 129. 




1891.] NATURAL SCIENCES"oF PHILADELPHIA. 133 



= A.liMULTITUBEPvCULATA, Cope. 



A. Allotheria. 



1. Cimolomidae. 

 Cimolomys gracilis 



belhis 

 " digoiia 



2. Cimolodontidae. 

 Ciniolodon iiitidus 

 Nanom3^s mimitu.<. 



3. Plagiaulacidae. 

 Halodon sculpt us 



" serratus 

 " formosus 



4. Dipriodoiitidae. 

 Dipriodou robustus 



" lunatus 



5. Tripriodontidae. 

 Tripriodon coelatus 



" cape rat us 



Selenacodon fragilis 

 " brevis 



6. AUodontidae. 

 Allacodon lentus 



" puniilus 



?Camptoraus amplus 

 ? Oracodon anceps 



? B. Pantotheria. 

 ? 7. Dryolestidae. 

 ? Dryolestes tenax 



C. ISIarsupialia. 

 Didelphops vorax 



" ferox 



" comptus 



Cimolestes incisus 

 " curtus 



D. Insectiyora. 

 Pedioniys elegans 



E. Incertae sedis. 



8. Stagodontidae. 

 Stagodon nitor 

 Platacodon nanus 



} = 



1. Plagiaidacidae Gill. 



Cimolomys, JNIarsh, two or 

 three specie?. 



> = ? 2. Stereognailiidae, fam. nov. 



Meniscoessu^, Cope, two spe- 

 cies. 



Probably preoccupied. 



Indefinite types or preoccupied. 



Indefinite type. 



B. Order indeterminate=Creodonta, 



Insectivora or Marsupialia. 

 = Dide/pJiops, ]Mar>li, two species. 

 = Cimolestes, Marsh, ? species. 



Not defined. 



Founded upon Reptilian or Ic- 

 thyopsidan teeth. 




134 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



This reduces the Cretaceous mammals described in these two 

 papers to one well determined order or sub-order, two well deter- 

 mined families and four or five genera, one of w^iich can now be 

 well defined (Meniscoessus) while the remainder are probably dis- 

 tinct genera which we may be able to define by the acquisition of 

 more material {Cimolomys, Didelphops and Cimolestei). There is 

 no question that the majority of the remaining generic names are 

 synonyms although it is quite possible that some of the types de- 

 scribed, such as Oracodon and Pedioviys may be found to represent 

 distinct or new cenera. 



It may be said that this analysis has almost entirely eliminated 

 the work of the author. This unfortunately is what is necessar)-^ if 

 we Avould render this contribution of any permanent value in palae- 

 ontology. We are then left with a series of teeth which represent 

 rare skill on the part of the collector and are figured with remark- 

 able accuracy by the draughtsman. A few points of interest upon 

 the collection as a whole may be mentioned. 



The Malt'dubercidata. The preponderance of teeth belonging to 

 members of this order would appear to indicate that it flourished 

 during this period. Cimolomys represents a connecting form between 

 Plaglanlax, upper Jurassic, with three premolars and Ftilod as oi' the 

 lowest Eocene with two. The smallest species, C.formosus, apparently 

 has as many grooves upon the fou rth premolar as we observe in Ptilodus, 

 and the first lower molar has even more tubercles than we find in 

 the corresponding tooth of the lower Eocene genus. These grooves 

 and tubercles mark the stages of development, and it would appear 

 that Cimolomys is not far removed from Ptilodus ; this relation can 

 only be determined by the discovery of additional teeth, we may 

 find that Cimolomys has a large third premolar. 



Another interesting fact is that Meniscoessiis does not belong with 

 the Plagiaulacidae, as has been generally supposed hitherto,' but 

 should apparently be placed with Stereognathus (with which its re- 

 semblance in molar structure has always been recognized) in a dis- 

 tinct family, the Stereo gnathidae, distinguished by the presence of 

 two rows of tubercles in the upper molars and three in the lower, of 

 crescentoid pattern. The more numerous tubercles in Meiiiscocssus 

 would accord well with its more recent character. 



^ Cope, Osborn, Lydekker. 




1891.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 135 



There are thus apparently only two families of the multitubercu- 

 lates represented here unless as the author has suggested, AUacodon 

 belongs to the Bolodontidae. We have yet to find the successors of 

 the Tritylodontidae and predecessors of Poli/mastodon and Chirox of 

 the lower Eocene.' 



As for the trituberculate forms there are evidently two distinct 

 genera which probably belong to different families. The types of 

 Dldelphops and Clmolestes closely resemble molars found respec- 

 tively among the Mesotlonta, the Creodouta, Insectivora and Mar- 

 supialia. Their systematic position is, therefore, very uncertain 

 from this evidence. They mark, however, a very great advance 

 upon the Jurassic forms in tooth evolution. We find in Didelphops, 

 the earliest low-crowned tritubercular molar which has been ob- 

 tained, with one or two intermediate tubercles, while the lower mo- 

 lar is the earliest quinquetubercular tooth known. The Clmolestes 

 molar is tuberculo-sectorial and presents a less marked advance 

 upon Jurassic tooth types, but has nevertheless a broad talon, with 

 both the entoconid and hypoconid developed, whereas all Jurassic 

 forms present the hypoconid only. 



The bones of the appendicular skeleton i)resent a number of very 

 interesting points, some of which the author mentions; these are, 

 the coracoid facet upon the scapula ; the interclavicular. We note 

 also the flat astragalus, without a neck, apparently perforated by an 

 astragalar foramen," and with a broad cuboidal facet as w'ell as 

 the navicular facet. The calcaneum has a narrow sustentaculum. 



We look forward with great interest to Part III of this series of 

 papers, as the collection is a most valuable and interesting one, and 

 the above review is not intended in any way to dej^reciate the impor- 

 tance of an increased knowledge of the Cretaceous mammals. 



1 The nearest resemblance lo Folymastodon is that observed in the striated 

 lower incisors here copied in figure 5. This genus will undoubtedly be found 

 represented in these beds. 



2 The observation rests solely upon the figure. All astragali of the lower 

 Eocene display this foramen. 




136 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [189K 



GEOLOGICAL RESEARCHES IN YUCATAN. 

 BY PROF. ANGELO HEILPRIN. 



The observations recorded in the following pages were made in 

 the early spring of 1890 in the course of the explorations by the 

 Expedition organized under the auspices of the Academy of Nat- 

 ural Sciences. The points of investigation are included between 

 Progreso on the northern coast, the cave-region of Calcehtok (in 

 the first range of hills) on the southwest, Labna on the south, Tun- 

 kas (on the Valladolid road) on the east, and the Port of Qilara 

 (Silam). So far as I know, no critical examination of the geologi- 

 cal features of any portion of this region, or indeed, of any part of 

 Yucatan, had been made prior to our visit. Unfortunately, want 

 of time did not permit us to penetrate beyond the range of nioun- 

 tains (Sierra de Yucatan) above referred to, but from information 

 received from various sources and from the general lay of the land, 

 I am led to believe that much or most of the region beyond pos- 

 sesses the same general geognostic features as those which charac- 

 terize the country traversed by us. 



Of the few travelers who have succeeded in penetrating into the 

 deep interior of Yucatan, there is scarcely one who has given even 

 as much as a hint of the geology of the country ; but more sur- 

 prising yet, even the geography of the region is unknown. The 

 traveler has but to consult the latest maps of the peninsula, official 

 and unofficial, to see how varied a course might be picked out be- 

 tween almost any two points that are somewhat removed from one 

 another. A direct course of 40-50 miles may differ, according to 

 the maps used, by fully 10 or 20 degrees of the com])ass ; mountain 

 chains may have to be crossed or not, just as it suits the convenience 

 of the traveler in his choice. Lakes appear in one chart, and they 

 are replaced by water-courses in another ; or both are entirely 

 wanting in a third. Towns and roads appear where, in reality, 

 there is but a w'ilderness, with possibly a traversing mule or deer 

 path. Even the principal range of hills, that which runs in a 

 N. W. — S. E. line from beyond Ticul in the direction of Peto, 

 and culminates in an elevation of approximately 900 feet,' is wholly 



1 Determined barometrically by Mr. Edward H. 'ri)om|>on, U. hj. Consul at 

 Merida ; the position of this most elevated point is not far from Xul, a few leagues 

 southeast of Labna. 




1891.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 137 



omitted from some maps, while it is deflected at a right angle on 

 other maps ; again, the chain frequently appears supplemented or 

 replaced by a S. W. — N. E. chain terminating at, or passing, Val- 

 ladolid. It is difficult to account for these geographical aberrations. 

 The map accompanying Stephens' work (1843) is in a general way 

 accurate — much more so than most recent maps — and the position 

 of the principal mountain mass is given in its nearly true points. 

 That remarkably accurate observer also omits the non-existent 

 rivers and lakes, njaking exception, however, in favor of the 

 actually existing lake (southeast of Peto) of Chichenkanab. 



Our scanty knowledge of the interior of Yucatan is doubtless due 

 in principal part to the difficulty (or assumed difficulty) of pene- 

 trating into the region of the revolted Mayas. It is currently be- 

 lieved that no white man, except at extreme risk to his life, can 

 penetrate into the interior either from the west or from the north ; 

 but the experience of Cpnsul Thompson, as proved by his travels, 

 shows that good judgment and a knowledge of the ^laya language 

 may effectually protect a non-Mexican from the dangers of assault 

 which are certainly intended to be directed solely against the Mex- 

 icans and their supporters — ui other words, against those to whom 

 the revolted Indians decline to recognize allegiance. The .so-called 

 " wild" Indians of the interior are, in fact, identical with the Mayas 

 of the north, and in their behavior to strangers, except to Mexicans, 

 they are as peacefully inclined as are their (supposed) more highly 

 civilized brethren of the north. Hence, it is not difficult to enter 

 their country from the side of the British possessions, L e., from 

 Balize. It is from that side that Dr. Gaumer, the well-known col- 

 lector of birds (now a resident of Izauial), and his wife penetrated. 



First after Stephens to make an extended tour through Yucatan 

 was Captain Lindesay Brine, R. N., who, in the early part of 1870 

 (January 30th to April 8th) traversed the region from Guatemala 

 to Sisal. A brief account of this journey, entitled " On the Ruined 

 Cities of Central xAmerica," is published in the Journal of the Royal 

 Geographical Society for 1872 (vol. XLII). No geological facts 

 are given in this paper, but there is a suggestive reference to the 

 conservative or preservative character of the climate, which may 

 have some bearing upon the determination of age of the prehistoric 

 ruins. It has been urged, and seemingly with much force, by those 

 who uphold the comparatively recent construction of these building?^, 

 that the sharp aretes or cornices which still ornament the exterior 



10 




138 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



walls cannot be of great antiquity, since continued exposure to at- 

 mospheric influences would in a comparatively brief period turn 

 rounded edges and corners. In examining the walls of Uxmal I 

 was especially struck with the knife-edges which mark long courses 

 of marble, as straight and clean as though they had been laid in 

 our own generation. I was immediately impressed Vvith this cir- 

 cumstance as strong evidence tending against great antiquity. But 

 in the light of what Captain Brine says, I am not sure that this evi- 

 dence of itself carries much weight. Thus, it is asserted by this 

 traveler, that he "found the names of Stephens, and Catherwood, 

 and Pawling, which were written apparently with a bit of charred 

 wood on the inner surface of the entrance archway [at Palenque], 

 as fresh as when rirst done in 1840" — i. e., thirty years previous. 

 This is certainly a most extraordinary instance of resistance to at- 

 mospheric influences. 



Of the very few references touching the physiography of Yucatan, 

 the most important are contained in a paper by Dr. Arthur Schott 

 on the coast formation of the north, published in Petermann's 

 Mittheilungen for 1866.' In this paper the author discusses the 

 nature of the long sea-dam (sand and shell dune) which skirts the 

 coast for a length of some 170 miles, and of the brackish water-strip 

 or lagoon which it encloses. The double formation is attributed to 

 the antagonistic effects of the sea and of the subterranean (or sub- 

 marine) outflows (of fresh water) from the land ; the sea-dam is 

 normally broken at but two or three points throughout its course, 

 the breaks occurring in position.s — as opposite the estuary of the so- 

 called Rio Lagartos — where the terrestrial waters emerge with suf- 

 ficient force, or have accumulated in suflicient volume, to overcome 

 the oceanic pressure from the outside. Dr. Schott incidentally refers 

 to the condition of the interior " cenotes" or sinks, whose univer- 

 sality throughout the region is recognized, and remai'ks that inas- 

 much as the level of the water in these is approximately that of the 

 sea (varying two or three inches toward the close of the rainy sea- 

 son), the depth of the cenotes must in itself be an index of the ele- 

 vation of the land surrounding them (the elevation increasing 

 as we recede from the sea). Thus, it is held that in, and immediately 

 about, the capital city, Merida, the cenotes have a depth of from 

 26-28 feet; at some little distance south of the city, 30 feet; half 



1 Die KustenbildunL: des nordliclien Yukatan. 




1891.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 139 



way between Merida and the north coast, 12-15 feet, and at Pro- 

 greso, on the cuast, 0. 



I determined the depth of the cenotes about Merida and found 

 it to be approximately as stated by .Schott. But it is beyond ques- 

 tion that the water-level in the cenotes generally, except possibly in 

 the case of a few that are not very distantly removed from the sea, 

 has no connection with the level of the sea. This is shown by the 

 condition of the aguadas, or larger basins, where the level of the 

 water is far from constant, and varies within very broad limits. The 

 same condition is illustrated by some of the deeper caves, such as 

 Bolonchen, for example, in which frequently no water of accumula- 

 tion is met with until a level seemingly considerably below that of 

 the sea is reached.^ 



In any consideration of the geogno.stic features of Yucatan, three 

 distinct regions of the country must be recognized : the lowland 

 plains, the mountains (perhaps more properly designated hills), and 

 the submerged plateau which gradually shelves into the Gulf and 

 is known as the Yucatan Bank. The last, in whatever way it be 

 considered, is, it appears to me, geologically a part of the continent- 

 al area. 



The lowland jilains, lying north of the Sierra de Yucatan, rise 

 gradually as we j^roceed inland from the coast-border at the rate, 

 perhaps, of a foot or a foot and a half per mile, which is, of course, 

 considerably less than the pitch of the sea-floor immediately north 

 or west of the peninsula. But in this feeble rise of the land we have 

 no positive indication that it is the normal of elevation, as denuda- 

 tion has doubtless done something to level the country since its 

 emergence from the sea. But from such stratigraphical correlation 

 as we found possible to make, it would seem that the leveling has 

 been insignificant, and perhaps not sufficient to materially alter an 



^ Stephens gives the depth to wliich he descended in the cave of Bolonclien 

 as approximately 450 feet (" Incidents of Travel in Yucatan," II, p. 152, 1843). 

 Unforlunately, there are no data at hand for determining the elevation of Bolon- 

 chen itself, but inasmuch as the town lies considerably to the south of the Sierra, 

 on the north-and-?outh line of Ticul, and as the absolute elevation of the Sierra 

 ilself is here only about 450 feet, as we determined by means of a very sensitive 

 aneroid barometer, tlie position cannot be more than 100-"00 feet above the sea, 

 if it is that much. The elevation of Ticul, which lies at the north foot of the 

 Sierra, is, as I am informed by Senor Antonio Fejardo (a long-time resident of 

 the town), approximately 90 feet. Probably the elevation of Bolonchen does not 

 ' differ greatly from that of this town. It would thus seem that there has been here 

 coi.siderable subsidence since tlie formation of the cave. 




140 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



original relief. At the present time the absence of running streams 

 would naturally largely check surface degradation, but, on the other 

 hand, an equivalent in part would be obtained from the sinking of 

 the floor over the numerous limestone caverns with which the coun- 

 try abounds. At Merida, some 23 miles from the north coast, the 

 general elevation is about 28-30 feet above the sea, at Ticul about 

 80-90 feet, and at a point on the Merida-Sotuta railroad, one-half 

 mile east of Tekanto, 42 feet.' A line drawn from Progreso to the 

 crest of the hills immediately south of Ticul would give a gradient 

 approximately equal to that of a line of similar length projected 

 northward from Progreso over the submerged plateau. 



The rock formation over the greater part of the plains is that of 

 a gray or white shell limestone, highly indurated or sub-crystalline 

 in local areas, but rarely to the extent of obliterating its fossilifer- 

 ous character. Secondary depositions of calcite, in the form of 

 veins, crystals and nodular masses, are abundant. Where less com- 

 pact the rock may be said to be a mass of loosely-united shells, a 

 condition that is best shown in the superficial layers. Good sections 

 of the rock are seen only in the walls of the aguadas and cenotes 

 and in a number of railway cuts which traverse it both in a N. — S. 

 and E. — W. line ; the rock surface is, however, visible over a very 

 large part of its extent, being but scantly covere^ with soil and sup- 

 porting only an indifferent vegetation. Its decomposition has lib- 

 erated large quantities of red earth, similar to that which is found in 

 our own northern region (terra rossa) and on coral islands (e. g., the 

 Bermudas, Bahamas), and which is seemingly a residual product 

 representing impurities of oae form or another which were intro- 

 duced into the limestone at the time of its formation. The great 

 quantity of this impurity, which constitutes much or most of the 

 soil of the country, taken in conjunction with the circumstance 

 that the limestone is of shallow-water formation, suggests the notion 

 that this iron-impurity is a product of the volcanic discharges which 

 for a long period of time visited the region, and must have 

 contributed a vast amount of oxydizable material to that which 

 was slowly accumulating through the agency of organic forces in 

 the Gulf basin. The surface of the limestone is eaten out into 

 irregular knolls and holloAvs, which become more pronounced as 

 we move inland from the northern coast. 



^ As determined by railroad levelings conducted by Colonel John W. Glenn. 




1891.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 141 



The paleontological evidence of the fossils contained in the lime- 

 stone is to the effect that the latter belongs to two periods of geolo- 

 gical time, the Pliocene and the Post-Pliocene, but stratigraphically 

 it is not easy to draw a line of demarkation between the two forma- 

 tions. It, indeed, appears as though the Post-Pliocene, except in 

 the coastal area, were present only in patches, having been removed 

 through atmospheric decay and denudation. It is in most places 

 easily distinguished by the large numbers of Venus cancellata which 

 fill the rock, making a true Venus cancellata l)ed, such as I observed 

 capping the Pliocene beds on the Caloosahatchie, Florida, just below 

 Fort Thompson. The beds occupy similar positions and hold 

 equivalent relations to the construction of the land, and may, there- 

 fore, be considered as counterparts of an identical formation. At 

 Fort Thompson the Venus bed is found at an elevation of some 24 

 feet above the sea, a few feet less, perhaps, than the level which the 

 same bed holds in the exposed walls of the cenotes at Merida. At 

 the railroad station of San Ignacio, about halfway between ^lerida 

 and Progreso, the same bed has fallen to a level of about 14 feet ; 

 it is there crowded with the shells of its distinctive fossil, one of the 

 most abundant of the Gulf ^Nlollusca. We found the same fossil 

 equally abundant on the roadway between Kansakhab and Oilam, 

 at points 12-15 miles or less from the coast; and not unlikely this 

 whole northern slope between the coast and some fifteen miles in- 

 land is a Post-Pliocene surface. The low exposures, however, do 

 not make this absolutely clear, nor do they permit us to say just 

 how much further the same deposits extend. Post-Pliocene cap- 

 pings continue at least as far as ]Merida, and not improbably outcrops 

 will be found much further in the interior. But as has be- 

 fore been remarked, the close connection existing between the Post- 

 Pliocene and Pliocene deposits does not permit a sharp difl^erentia- 

 tion of the two series. At first glance, indeed, I assumed that the 

 whole northern plain was a recent formation, but a closer examina- 

 tion of the fossil remains leaves no doubt that the major formation 

 is the Pliocene, which is here and there covered or obscured h\ more 

 recent deposits. 



My examination of the Pliocene area was made at several points 

 in and about Merida, in numerous cuttings along the line of the 

 Merida-Kalkiui Railroad, on the line of the railroad connect- 

 ing the capital city with Ticul, all along the traverse between 

 Merida and Tunkas — some tweutv miles E. S. E. of Izamal — and 




142 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



at various points between Tekanto and Oilam. The rock-formation 

 over all this area is largely uniform, and shows frequent recurrence 

 of the same fossils ; there is no question, therefore, of its identity 

 throughout. I enjoyed special advantages for studying fresh mate- 

 rial in the cutting which was being made at the time of our visit 

 eascward of Tekanto, in the railroad section connecting this town 

 with Izamal.' 



The following is a list of the fossils that I have thus far been able 

 to identify from the rocks of this formation ; the species preceded 

 by an asterisk are non-living or Pliocene forms, the remainder live 

 in the adjacent seas. 



From the R. R. cutting (Camp Glenn) one and a half miles east 

 of Tekanto : 



Venus mercenaria. 

 Venus cancellata. 

 Marginella apicina f 

 * Turrit el/a perattenuata. 

 ^Turritella apicalis. 

 Bulla striata. 



Pecten nucleus. 



Pecten n. sp. 



Anomia simplex f (*-4 . Ruffini f) 



Plicatala filamentosa. 



Lueina reticulata. 



Area A dam si. 



From a rock outcrop west of Izamal : 

 ^Amussiuvi Mortoni. 



From the cenotes near Merida : 

 ^^ Pecten n. sp. i Venus Listeri. 



Pecten nucleus (dislocatns). I Venus cancellata. 



Cardium isocardia. i 



From a railroad cutting about half-way between Merida and 

 Ticul : 



Cardium magnum f 

 Cardium muricatumf 

 Venus mercenaria. 

 Murex Salleanus ? 



Pecten nucleus. 

 Pecten sp. indet. 

 Pinna sp. indet. 

 Lueina Jamaicensis. 

 Lueina edentula. 



From a digging in the city of Merida: 

 '^Ostrea meridionalis. I ^Aimissium Mortoni. 



Anomia simplex. | Plicatnla filamentosa. 



Pecten nucleus. Area Deshayesii. 



1 The writer is under great obligation to Colonel John W. Glenn, Engineer 

 of this section of the Merida-Sotuta Railway, and to Mrs. Glenn for many facili- 

 ties afforded the exploring party toward the prosecution of llieir work, and for the 

 comforts of a railroad " camp " during a period of nearly two weeks. 




1891.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 143 



^^Area sp. iudet. — Very close to A. incongrua and A. scalarina 

 (from the Pliocene of Florida), but differing in the greater 

 width of the ribs and in the absence of the intercostal line. 

 The specimens are in the form of impressions and do not per- 

 mit of characterization. 

 Area rhombea. 



'■^Pecfuiicxdiis sp. indet. — Seemingly different from any of the liv- 

 ing species. 

 Liicina tigrina. 

 ^Lucina disciform is. 

 Liicina Pennsylvanica. 

 Gardium serratum. 

 Cardium miiricatum. 

 Cardium isocardia f 

 Chama arcinella. 

 Venus mercenaria. 

 Venus Mortoni. 



Artemis^ discus. 

 Macovia contracta. 

 Tel/ina sp. ? 

 ^Fulgur rcipum. 

 Dolium perdix. 

 Oliva literata. 

 Cijprcea sp. indet. 

 Pyrula reticularis. 

 Siliquaria .sp. indet. 



Fulgur rapum, Turritella perattenuata, T. apiccdis, Ostrea vieri- 

 dionalis and Lucina disciformis are forms which I have previously 

 described from the Pliocene deposits (the " Floridian") of the Ca- 

 loosahatchie.^ Amussium Mortoni, also found in the Caloosahatchie 

 deposits, is a well-known fossil of the Carolinian Miocene, and lep- 

 resents the recent A. (Pleui-onedes) Japonica (from which it differs 

 mainly in the disposition of the interior ribs). Besides the species 

 above enumerated, the rocks in nearly all cases — at least, when they 

 are largely fossiliferous — contain almost numberless impressions of 

 a Venus, so far as I know, not now living, whose nearest analogue 

 appears to be Fenws c?'i6?'orm of Conrad, a Miocene species of the 

 Atlantic border of the United States. 



The exact position in the Pliocene series which these Yucatan 

 rocks hold cannot, perhaps, be stated, but they Avith little doubt, 

 correspond at least in part with the series occurring in Florida 

 which I have designated the "Floridian." It is true that the 

 number of extinct species of the mollusks is seemingly less in the 

 Yucatan rock than in that of Florida, but it should be said that in 

 addition to the forms above enumerated, there are a considerable 

 number, occurring mainly in the condition of unrecognizable casts, 

 which may largely represent extinct specie:^. The number of corals 



1 •' Explorations on tlie West Coast of Florida and in the Okeechobee Wilder- 

 ness." — Trans. Wagner Free Institute of Science, vol. 1, Pliila., 1887. 




144 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



found associated with the niolluscau remains was exceedingly lim- 

 ited ; indeed, it was only after long search that I detected their ex- 

 istence at all. I picked out a good-sized clump of Porites from a 

 cutting on the ?kferida-Ticul railroad, and found a few simple corals 

 elsewhere. They represent only a sporadic growth, and I could 

 nowhere determine any evidences of reef-structure. 



The Mountain Region. 



The rock-formation of the Sierra de Yucatan differs in many ])ai'- 

 ticulars from that of the basal plain. The surface rock, forming 

 the crest and the slopes on either side — -presumably an anticlinal 

 structure — is a fairly compact red or reddish limestone, which seems 

 to rest at nearly all places, as we had occasion to observe in the 

 caves of Calcehtok and Loltun, on a semi-crystalline white or gray 

 marble or on an exceedingly fine grained cream limestone, some- 

 what resembling in texture true lithographic stone. A brecciated 

 limestone, containing fragments of the last mentioned rock, occurs 

 at intervals along the base of the hills, and we also found it among 

 the rocks used in the construction of the buildings (now ruins) of 

 Labna. I am not absolutely certain as to the age or even as to the 

 general nature of the red-rock. The brecciated masses are almost 

 undoubtedly of marine origin, and they give evidence of the en- 

 croaches of the sea after the underlying rock had not only beeu 

 formed l)ut l)een converted into its present semi-crystalline condi- 

 tion. In other words, the present range of hills ])robably by 

 that time already existed. It is, however, less clear that the red or 

 reddish rock which extends away from the base of the hills, but 

 forms their slopes, is of max'ine origin. Its universality would seem 

 to indicate that it was of this nature, but at many places where I 

 examined it, on and off the crests of the hills, it bore suspicious 

 marks of being a disintegration product, which had subsequently 

 undergone cementation. The only fossil that I found in it, on any 

 surface exposure, w^as a Helix (probably identical with a species 

 now living in the same region), which was obtained from near the 

 summit of the pass between Ticul and Santa Elena, at an absolute 

 elevation of perhaps 300 feet. It occurred in a thoroughly hard 

 ruck, but this circumstance is in itself no proof of actual antiquity, 

 since in a purely calcareous region such as this one, rock cementa- 

 tion is a rapid process, as we had occasion to observe in the terres- 

 trial (fossiliferous) limestone now forming near a quarry about two 




1891.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 145 



miles south of Ticul. In the red rock which in the cave of Calceh- 

 tok overlies the gray limestone I found the im])ression of a single 

 gasteropod, which I should unhesitatingly refer to a terrestrial form, 

 and to a genus of Pupidae close to Macroceramns, if indeed, it is not 

 Macroceramus \tSQ\f} I could find no vestiges of marine mollusks, 

 but yet they may well occur in other parts of the rock, and it would, 

 perhaps, not be safe to conclude that the entire red-rock is of ter- 

 restrial origin, or that it represents a single type of formation. 



No doubt attaches to the heavily-bedded gray and white limestones 

 and marbles which are so well exhibited in some of the deeper caves, 

 such as that of Calcehtok, for example. The mouth of this cave, 

 according to a rough approximation, is some 200 feet above the 

 sea.'' At a depth of some 50 feet the red limestone appears in a 

 solid mass, and beneath it we reach the cry.stalline limestones, which 

 are dispo.sed in layers of 10-15 feet thickness. Fossils are not 

 abundant in this rock, and Col. Glenn, who had explored this cave 

 on a previous occasion, was of the opinion that no fossils were to be 

 found in it. After considerable search, however, we discovered a 

 few in an indiffei*ent state of preservation, and still later some whose 

 characters were sufficiently d-^fined to permit us to determine their 

 relationship. Among these are a Pecten, with little dou])t Pecten 

 nucleus, the cast of a large MurgineUa, apparently the living Mar- 

 ginelhi labiat< I, &, Potamide-i or Cerithidea, the impression of the apex 

 of a large Oliva (of the type of Oliva llterata), and a single impre.ssion 

 of Venus cancellata. While the above forms are bareh'^ sufficient to 

 determine the exact age of the formation in which they occur, 

 whether Pliocene or Miocene, I am inclined to believe that it is 

 rather the former, the mountain-rock — .semi-crystalline or highly 

 compact, and but scantily fossiliferous — being acompressional alter- 

 ation of the much less compact and highly fossiliferous rock of the 

 basal plains. But whether Pliocene or JNIiocene, I think it can be 

 all but positively assumed that it is not older than Miocene, although 

 it has been asserted that it represented the Oligocene or Yieksburg- 

 ian period.^ 



1 Mr. H. A. Pilsbry, Conservator of the Concliological Section of ihe 

 Acndimy of Natural Sciences, has kindly directed my attention to this relationship. 



- The height of the pass leading to the cave we determined barometrically to 

 be about 250 feet above the hacienda of Sefior Escalanle (situated at the north 

 oot of the mountains), which is itself elevated some 60 feet. The total lieight of 

 the pass is thus somewhat above 3(10 feet. 



3 Alexander Agassiz— '• Three Cruises of the Blake,'" 1, p. 69. 




146 PROCEEDIXGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



The cave itself is a magnificent specimen of subterranean archi- 

 tecture and in several of its features far surpasses the Luray Cav- 

 erns. The broad entering arch, a feature which we found repeated 

 in the scarcely less imposing cave of Loltun, in the mountains south- 

 east of Ticul (or the hacienda of Tabi), is in striking contrast to the 

 contracted passage which leads into the famous cavern of Virginia. 

 Huge stalactites hang from heights of 50-70 feet or more, or unite 

 with stalagmites to form continuous columns of giant proportions. 

 Many of these measure as much as six or eight feet in diameter, and 

 some of them considerably more. In the cave of Loltun we measured 

 one which was thirty-six feet in circumference about five feet above 

 its base, and I am certain that there are others that are still larger, 

 both here and in the cave of Calcehtok. The chambers, especially 

 in the last named, are imposing in their dimensions, and communi- 

 cate with one anotiier by the usual clefts and narrows. There is little 

 moisture in either of the caves ; most of the chambers are thor- 

 oughly dry, and they have accumulated extensive deposits of disin- 

 tegrated rock material. In the short time at our command we 

 could not explore the caves to their furthest limits, but we saw 

 enough to convince us that their extent was quite considerable. We 

 descended in the cave of Calcehtok to a depth of approximately 170 

 feet, or to within about 30 feet of the level of the sea ; unfortunately 

 a shortage of illuminating material, and the disinclination of the 

 Mayas to proceed farther, prevented us from prosecuting our search 

 to the end that we should have desired. The red rock which we 

 found superimposed upon the gray limestones in the cave of Cal- 

 cehtok reappears in the cave of Loltun, where, however, we failed 

 to find the underlying older stratum. This was probably due in 

 part to the stalagmitic crust with which much of the surface was 

 covered, and to the circumstance that this cave is much less deep — 

 at least in the part traversed by us — than the cave of Calcehtok. 



We found among the ruins of Labna that much of the stone that 

 was used by the ancient Mayas in the construction of their habita- 

 tions was the semi-crystalline limestone, and not the surface rock 

 that is found in the region. The builders had manifestly brought 

 their rock from some distance, but from what special locality I could 

 not determine. This preference for a particular building stone is also 

 seen in a number of snuill ruins traversed by the railroad about two 

 miles north of Ticul. The material there used is also a very com- 

 pact gray limestone, but it differs from the limestone of the cave in 




1891.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 147 



being highly fossiliferous, and in lacking the suberystalline struc- 

 ture of the latter. The fossils are unfortunately in too imperfect a 

 condition to be satisfactorily determined, but they are in part 

 crowded with an oi-bicular Foraminifer, or rather, its impressions, 

 which measure about a third of an inch in diameter. From the 

 form of the impressions, I should say that the Foraminifer is a 

 PateUlna {Cyclolina). AVhence this rock was obtained I know not, 

 but it certainly differs from the field rock which appears a short 

 distance from the ruins. 



The heights determined by us on the Sierra are the following : 

 the summit of the pass leading over from the hacienda of Senor 

 Escalante (near Calcehtok) 250 feet, or 310 feet, approximately, 

 above the level of the sea ; the summit of the pass leading over from 

 Ticul to Tabi, 300 feet above Ticul, or 390 feet approximate absolute 

 elevation ; summit of the pass leading over from the hacienda of San 

 Juan to Uxmal, 160 feet above the plain. At all of these points the 

 hills rise fully 50 to 75 feet, or more, above the highest point reached 

 by us ; accordingly, the hills immediately south of Ticul cannot be 

 much less than 500 feet in elevation. But as has already been said, 

 the range further to the southeast attains 900 feet. The range it- 

 self is composite in structure, having two or three parallel lines of 

 elevation which include longitudinal valleys. 



The Yucatan Bank. 



Little positive can at the present time be said regarding the struc- 

 ture of the Yucatan Bank. It is well known that Alexander Agas- 

 siz, who is almost the only authority that has critically touched the 

 history of the Gulf basin, considers it, in common with the similar 

 formation lying to the west of the peninsula of Florida, to have been 

 formed through a process of slow organic accretion — the accunuila- 

 tion, through an undefined period of time, of animal debris upon an 

 early fold (or bank) of the earth's crust — in which the force of ele- 

 vation has practically played no part.' I have in another place 

 discussed the probability of this view, and have stated that I could 

 find no satisfactory evidence in support of it — on the contrary, al- 

 most the only positive data that we possess in the premises argues 



1 Three Cruises of the Blake, chapter III, ^ol. 1, on " The Florida Reefs; " 

 " Coral Reefs of the Hawaiian Islands," Bull. Mus. Comp. Zoology, XVII, April, 

 1889; and elsewhere. 




148 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



directly against it.' Apart from the non-evidence we have in the 

 matter of giant limestone hanks being built up from deep water in 

 a comparatively brief period of geological time, the position of the 

 Pliocene and Post-Pliocene deposits in both Florida and Yucatan 

 shows that there has been a comparatively recent uplift, and for any- 

 thing that I know to the contrary, this uplift may have been quite 

 modern, and might, indeed, be progressing to-day. But again, the 

 evidence is all l)ut conclusive that there has been recent subsi- 

 dence;- and, indeed, so far as I can see, it is impossible to say whether 

 the last movement was one of elevation or of subsidence.^ The 

 difficulties attending the solution of this question will be appreciated 

 by all geologists. 



The complexities that are involved in the problem of the con- 

 struction of the Gulf basin are also a part of the history of the ad- 

 joining basin of the Caribbean Sea. In their united physiognomy 

 the most distinctive feature is constituted by the deep channels of 

 water which delimit the banks that have been briefly referred to 

 and which are known to geographers as the Straits of Florida and 

 Bemini and the Yucatan Passage. The depth of water in the former, 

 whose width is some 50 miles, is between 2200 and 3000 feet ; in the 

 latter, with a width of 80-90 miles, it reaches 1000 flUhoms. If we 

 assume the greatest depth of the Yucatan Passage to be at about its 

 middle, and that there is more or less of a regular slope of the bot- 

 tom leading from either side to this point, the average gradient of 

 the bed would be approximately 1 in 35, or about 150 feet to the 

 mile. Much the same profile would be presented, under a like as- 

 sumption, by the Straits of Florida. This slope, while it is steep, 

 is not yet so steep that it can in any way be 'designated precipitous. 

 In fact, an equal deviation from the horizontal in the ceiling of an 

 ordinary room would scarcely offend the eye. If the Yucatan Pas- 

 sage were drained of its water, it would present the appearance of a 



1 The Bermuda Islands : " A Contribution to tlie Physical History and Zool- 

 ogy of the Someis Archipelago," 1889, pp. 59-()l, 73. 



- As I have stated in my Report on Florida explorations (" Explorations on 

 the West Coast of Florida and in the Okeechobee Wilderness," Trans. Wagner 

 Free Institute of Science, p. 15, Phila., 1887), and as Shaler has also found ni the 

 course of his own investigations (Bull. Mus. Comp. Zoology, XVI, p. 148, 1890.) 



3 Only relative movement is here implied ; the interesting problem of oceanic 

 transgression and retrocession, which has been so forcibly argued by Suess and 

 others, is not considered in this place. 




1891.] NATURAL SCIEXCKS OF PHILADELPHIA. 149 



vast flat in which the eye would l)arely be able to detect a hollow.' 

 Allowing that the deeper water is met with long in advance of the 

 center of the channel, or for a slope of double intensity, the cut 

 would be only in the form of a gently undulating valley, with noth- 

 ing in it to remind one of a ravine or gorge. I make this compari- 

 son because I believe it will serve to a proper understanding of the 

 conditions under which these special physiographic features may 

 have been brought into existence. 



The gradual slope — for such it can really be called — of the chan- 

 nel seems to dispose of the necessity of invoking (although by no 

 means disproving the condition) the assistance (in the construc- 

 tion of the channel) of either faulting or fracture. At the same 

 time I believe it equally disposes of the notion that the channel 

 has been primarily formed through the scour of the Gulf Stream, 

 as has been maintained by Alexander Agassiz ; at least I see 

 no grounds for believing that it has been so formed, and the 

 fact that the pitch of the floor-bed is much less than it is (between 

 the 500 and the 1000 fathom contours) along much of the adjacent 

 continental borders where no currental scour of any magnitude is 

 known argues against the supposition. The undulation that is pres- 

 ent, and concavities of which form the two channels under considera- 

 tion, is no greater than that wdiich ordinarily exists over any broad 

 plain or mesa surface of the continental areas. 



That the Gulf Stream may now be to a certain extent deepening 

 these channels is possible, but this is hardly likely to be the case. 

 Even if it be held, as the observations of the " Blake" seem to make 

 clear, that " ttie bottom of the Gulf Stream along the Blake Plateau 

 is swept clean of slime and ooze, and is nearly barren of animal 

 life," '■ this fact does not necessarily argue in favor of scour, since 

 just in the path of the most rapid current of this stream, in the 

 Straits of Florida, where the flow is from four to five miles an hour, 

 the researches of Pourtales, A. Agassiz and Murray have revealed 

 the presence of vasts deposits of ooze. It is further a suspicious cir- 

 cumstance, seeing that we have no evidence of the much greater 

 antiquity of one channel over the other, that the Yucatan Pas- 

 sage, in which the flow is barely more than a fourth of a mile per 



^ The actual slope of the channel's bed is not as regular as has been as- 

 sumed in the above proposition, but for all practical purposes, I believe, the com- 

 parison will hold. 



2 " Three Cruises of the Blake," I, p. 259. 




150 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



hour, should have a depth double that of the Florida Straits, in 

 which the rate of flow, as has already been seen, is four miles an 

 hour, and more. The stream with a relative velocity of 16 has 

 excavated a channel with but half the depth of that excavated by 

 a stream whose velocity is only 1. Of course, modifying circum- 

 stances may to a considerable extent lessen the disproportion of 

 action, but not sufficiently to lend any probability to the theory of 

 Gulf scour. 



It is now, I believe, a widely recognized fact that the peninsula 

 of Florida has in quite recent geological times, even so late as the 

 newer Tertiary or Post-Pliocene, been united with the greater An- 

 tilles (or at least with Cuba) and the Bahamas into one more or 

 less continuous land-area ; the evidence, at any rate, for this suppo- 

 sition is of such a nature that it cannot readily be explained away.^ 

 And I believe it scarcely less probal)le that this connection was con- 

 tinued quite to the peninsula of Yucatan, although the separation 

 there may have begun at a slightly earlier period. But it will 

 be asked, if the separating channels have not been formed either 

 through dislocation (fracture) or the wear of the Gulf Stream, in 

 what manner has the existing disruption been brought about? I 

 think that the theory of subsidence offers the easiest and the most 

 plausible solution to the problem. But the theory, to be worthy of 

 confidence, must have some facts to support it, and it behooves us to 

 inquire if any such exist. As to a limited subsidence within a very 

 recent geological period (Post-Pliocene) — sufficient, probably, to ac- 

 count (if tliis were necessary) for the positions of the several atoll- 

 like reefs which have been cited by the opponents of the Darwinian 

 theory of reef-structures in evidence against subsidence'' — there is 

 ample testimony. With regard to the region of the Floridian pen- 

 insula, I have stated some of the facts in the Report before referred 

 to, and Prof. Shaler has since the time of my explorations obtained 

 new data supporting the conclusion I had arrived at.^ On the Yu- 



1 DeCastro, Bolet. Com. Geol. Esp. VIII, pp. 357-72, 1881 ; Dana, " Origin 

 of Coral Reefs and Isl:in(Js," Am. Journ. Science, 3rd Ser., vol. XXX, 1885 ; Suess, 

 Antlitz der Erde ; Heilprin, "The Bermuda Inlands," pp. 227-28. 



2 I fail to see in what way the Alacran Reef, on the Yucatan Bank, is a Inie 

 atoll. 



3 The Topography of Florida — Bull. Mus. Comp. Zoology, vol. XVT, 1890. 

 Heilprin "The Corals and Coral Reefs of the Western Waters of the Gulf of 

 Mexico," Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1890, p. 314. 




1891.] NATURAL SCIKNCK8 OF PHILADKLPHIA. 151 



catan side the evidence is, I believe, equally conclusive. The 

 deep hole of Bolonchen, to which reference has already been made, 

 can reasonably be explained, if the measurements of Stephens are at 

 all to be relied upon, only on the assumption of subsidence. The 

 condition of some of the other caves seems also to argue in the 

 same direction. On the north shore the solid limestone at many 

 places abuts directly against the Gulf waters, or is even carried into 

 them, as I had occasion to observe near the Port of Oilam, in scat- 

 tered ledges and boulders. I was also informed that in the course 

 of construction of the long pier at Progreso, masses of rock, similar 

 to that which is found inland, were met with at various points off 

 from the coast. Of course, the same conditions might be presented 

 by arising surface the moment we admit that a consolidated lime- 

 stone — except such as coral and oyster reefs, etc., which are col- 

 onial accumulations or out-growths — may be formed in exfenso be- 

 neath the water of the sea. I am not aware that a structure 

 of this kind has as yet been definitely proved to exist. It is true 

 that A. Agassiz asserts that he not infrequently obtained, by means 

 of the trawl or dredge, " large fragments of the modern limestone 

 now in process of formation," ' but I do not precisely see how this 

 limestone, " consisting of the dead carcasses" of species now living 

 in the Gulf, would be differentiated from a limestone which had 

 been placed in the same position through subsidence. 



But granting the full value of the evidence favoring subsidence, 

 the amount of subsidence itself is not sufficient to account for the 

 existence of the deep water between Florida and Cuba, and still 

 less for that between Cuba and Yucatan. Prof J. W. Spencer, in 

 a recent and very suggestive paper on " High Continental Ele- 

 vation preceding the Pleistocene Period,"-' has brought together a 

 number of facts, drawn largely from the condition of the (supposed) 

 ancient estuaries of several of the American rivers, which, in the 

 opinion of the author, go far toward indicating a very consider- 

 able subsidence along the American coast, and it is well to in- 

 quire into the relation which this (assumed) subsidence may hold to 

 the prolilem under consideration. The deep submarine channels (or 

 what are taken for them) of the Mississippi, Delaware, Hudson and 

 St. Lawrence Rivers, which cut into the 90-500 fathom curves, are 

 taken in part as evidence of this submergence ; on the Pacific side we 



1 "Three Cruises of the Blake," ], p. 62. 



2 Bulletin Cleol. Soc. America, 1, p. G5, ef set/. 




152 I'ROCIiEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



have the testimony of the deep submarine valleys which Prof. David- 

 son has described from the coast of California/ and the fjords and 

 friths of Washington and British Columbia.'' While it may not be 

 admitted that all of the above deep cuts are really old channels, 

 geologists are more generally agreed that the one which has been so 

 minutely traced by Lindenkohl south of Long Island is the true 

 channel of the Hudson River/ which terminates at about one hun- 

 dred miles southeast of the present coast line, at a depth of 2800 feet 

 beneath the level of the sea (or 2200 feet beneath the surface of the 

 plain or plateau into which the trough is cut). It is wholly improb- 

 able that this channel could have been formed in the manner in 

 which some geologists have attempted to explain the so-called canon 

 which continues westward the course of the Congo,* or that it is to- 

 day bci ug cut in the way that Hornlimann found the rivers Rhine 

 and Rhone cutting into the sublacustrine deposits of lakes Constance 

 and Geneva respectively.^ But if not thus formed, I do not see that 

 we are necessarily driven to consider subsidence as the only possible 

 explanation of the occurrence ; indeed, there are certain difficulties 

 in the way of the emergence-sul)sidence theory, especially those re- 

 lating to time, which to me seem almost insurmountable. Prof. 

 Dana suggests as the most likely time for the emergence of the land, 

 Avhich permitted of the cutting of the deep sea-ward channel, the 

 close of the Jura-Trias period (followed by the subsidence which 

 allowed ingress of the Cretaceous waters) ; Upham, on the other 

 hand, would prefer some portion of the late Tertiary or Post-Plio- 

 cene.*' 



1 Bull. Calif. Acad. Sciences, II, pp. 265-68; see also pajier by Prof. LeConte 

 " The Flora of the Coast Islands of California in Relation to Recent Changes of 

 Physical Gei>graphy" — Bull. Calif. Acad. Science<, II, pp. 515-2((. 



2 G. M. Dawson : '' Note on some of the mure Recent Changes in Level of 

 of the Coast of British Culumbia and Adjacent Regions" — Canadian Naturalist,, 

 new ser, VIII, pp. 241-250. 



* Dana, Am. Journ. Science, Dec, 1890. 



* Buchanan, Scotti.-h Geographical Magazine, III, ['. 222, 1837. 



5 F. A. Forel. Comptes Rendus, CI, pp. 725-28, 1885. Forel assumes that 

 the deep cutting in the case of the European rivers just mentioned is largely (or 

 almost wholly) due to the fact that the waters of the rivers are considerably heavier 

 than those of the lakes, and thus sink to the bottom, scouring there the surface; 

 but this condition does not hold with the streams discharging into the sea, except 

 in so far as the added weight of sediment will conduce toward sinkage. 



* American Geologist, September, 1890. 




1891.] NATURAL SCIENX'ES OF PHILADELPHIA. 153 



It appears to me improbable that a channel dating back to the 

 Lower Cretaceous period could have remained open to the pres- 

 ent time ; that a million, or possibly millions of years, should 

 not have effaced the contours of a river cut in a region of heavy 

 oceanic sedimentation is to me incredible. And the more improbable 

 is the condition made, when we see how smoothly the subcontinental 

 plateau has been worn or filled in on either side of the assumed 

 channel. Perhaps less objection can be urged against the view of 

 recent emergence (and subsequent subsidence) Avhich is held by Mr. 

 Upham ; the nature of the proposition is, in itself, such that it can- 

 not readily be met by the facts of geology. Mr. Upham bases his 

 proposition upon the concurrent testimony of facts presented by 

 the eastern, southern, western and northern waters,^ and from these 

 he argues that there has been a simultaneous elevation of the entire 

 continent, and not merely one confined to a section of the northern 

 regions. During this period of high elevation, which is made inci- 

 dent to the formation of the ice of the Great Ice Age, the cutting 

 of the deep river-channels was effected. But it is almost incon- 

 ceivable that such a general continental uplift could have taken 

 place without materially disturbing the courses of the principal 

 rivers ; the barest tilting of the land would almost certainly have 

 changed the course of such a low-plain river as the Mississipj)i, but 

 the river discharges to-day almost in a line with the excavation 

 which is supposed to represent its former mouth in the Gulf. The 

 same holds true with the Hudson and the Lindenkoht channel. 

 But again, the same difficulty, only intensified, confronts us if we 

 assume localized or regional uplift ; and, further, in the event of 

 such uplift, we should look to a much greater deformation of the 

 coast-line than now actually shows itself. Prof. Dana has called! 

 attention to one very serious objection to the theory of recent erosion 

 in the form (in depth) of the Lindenkohl channel ; the uneroded 

 or even surface of the plateau into which this channel is sunk seems 

 to be to one equally grave. 



It must be admitted that many of the difficulties in the case dis- 

 appear if, instead of an actual rise or emergence of the land, we as- 

 sume an equivalent recession of the oceanic waters ; indeed, the sta- 

 bility of river-courses appears to me a strong argument against the 

 see-saw movements of which continental masses are supposed to par- 

 take, and one decidedly in favor of the view of oceanic transgres- 



' Those principally which have been recited by Prof. Spencer. 

 11 




154 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



sions and recessions which has been so ably formulated by Prof. 

 Suess and the new school of German geologists. But the removal 

 of a difficulty is not a proof of a proposition ; and I do not know that 

 there are any facts to indicate that there has been a comparatively 

 recent recession of the oceanic waters, beyond tlie continental bound- 

 aries, to an extent of 3000 feet (vertical). On the contrary, the 

 regular succession of the Tertiary deposits along the eastern and 

 southern borders of the United States, completing the series near the 

 extremity of the Fioridian peninsula, and the regular gradation of 

 the animal forms which are contained in tliis series, seem to me to 

 point to an opposite conclusion. 



But even if we admit all that the advocates of river-erosion claim 

 for these submarine channels, I think it still remains an open ques- 

 tion if all the phenomena are referable to a single cause. Similar- 

 ity of physiographic feature is no necessary indication of equiva- 

 lency in the time of formation or equivalency in method. The 

 deep cut of the ancient Mississippi (or what is referred to as such 

 by Spencer and Upham) occurs at about the 500 fathom curve, 

 whereas that of the so-called Hudson River Channel marks the 

 80-100 fathom line. On the theory of river-erosion the formation 

 of the Mississippi cut, if we once admit subsidence, need not have 

 necessitated an elevation of the land of more than 1200 hundred 

 feet — j)erhaps not that much — as against the 2200 required by the 

 Hudson Channel. That the Mississippi cut was not formed at or 

 about the close of the Jurassic period is practically proven by the 

 coincident position of the present mouth of the river; it is all but 

 inconceivable that a stream should find its way to an ancient mouth 

 after 600 miles of its lower course (as is shown in the Cretaceous 

 Mississippi embayment) had been obliterated by the encroaches of 

 the sea. The objections to its having been formed at a recent ])eriod 

 of great elevation have already been stated ; the remarkable even- 

 ness of the Florida Plateau argues strongly against any recent up- 

 heaval of some 3-4000 feet. 



I believe that the occurrences presented near the mouth of the 

 Mississippi have little or nothing in common with those of the 

 Hudson ; they constitute a })art of the physics of the Gulf of Mexico 

 as distinguished from those of the North Atlantic. Suess' and See- 

 bach^ have forcibly sketched the relations of the West Indian Is- 



1 Antlitz der Erde, I, p. 698, et seq. 



2 Central Amerika und der interoceanische Canal, 1873. 




1891.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 155 



lands and of the mountain chain or chains which traverse the lar- 

 ger Antilles ; the parallel drawn by the former between the Car- 

 ribbean Basin and that of the "Western Mediterranean/ apart from 

 other evidence, leaves little doubt in my mind that it partakes largely 

 of the structure of the latter — i. e., it is a sunken area of the earth's 

 crust, which has carried, with it fragments of a once continuous or 

 nearly continuous system of mountain elevations. Parts of this 

 mountain system can still be seen in the chain of heights (reaching 

 an elevation of 9,000 feet, or more,) which traverses Porto Rico, 

 the islands of Hayti, Jamaica and southeastern Cuba, pointing to 

 continuations in Honduras and Guatemala. The similarity of the 

 rock-formations in these different islands (with those of St. Barthol- 

 omew, Antigua, etc.) points to a community of origin, if not neces- 

 sarily to c(mtinuity, but we have, it appears to me, abundant evi- 

 dence of continuity — extending as far as Florida on one side and to 

 Central America and South America on the other — in the relationship 

 of the existing moUuscan fauna of these islands, as has been shown 

 by Bland,^ and in that of the extinct mammalian faunas, for the 

 elaboration of which we are indebted to the labors of DeCastro, 

 Cope, Pomel and Leidy." The conformation of the sea-bottom, as 

 the soundings of the " Blake" have made known to us, also indicates 

 this connection. It is probable that the disruption or subsidence, 

 or series of subsidences, w'hich resulted in the existing condition of 

 region did not set in until the close of the Miocene or beginning of 

 the Pliocene period — perhaps not until still later — as the distribu- 

 tion of the extinct mammalian fauna shows. What the area 

 of this subsidence may have been it is not easy to determine, 

 but it with little doubt included the whole of the region of the Ba- 

 hamas, and probably much more to the north. From considera- 

 tions other than those that have been stated, Alexander Agassiz 

 has arrived at the conclusion of a vast change of level in the sub- 

 continental plateau lying east of the southeastern coast-line of the 

 United States, for he inclines to the belief that this coast-line, opposite 

 to what is known as the Blake Plateau, at one time extended seaward 

 approximately to what is now the position of the 500-fathom line. 



1 op. cit., I, p. 708. 



2 Annals Lyceum Nat. Hist. New York, VII, pp. 335-61 ; X, pp. 311-24. 



3 DeCastro, loc. cit.; Cope, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1868, p. 313; 

 Smithsonian Contributions, 1883 (1878) ; Leidy, " Mammalian Fauna of Dakota 

 and Nebraska," 1869. 




156 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



To quote the language of this distinguished investigator : " In other 

 words, the old continental line extended at least two hundred and 

 fifty to three hundred miles farther to the eastward, forming a huge 

 plateau, the hundred-fathom line of which was found where the 

 six-hundred-fathom line now runs, and stretched as far south as to 

 include the Bahamas and Cuba in this great submarine plateau."" 

 It is true that Agassiz recognizes in the lowering of the Blake Pla- 

 teau — which he considers to be a special formation organically built 

 up from the deep, and added to " the outer edge of the former con- 

 tinental plateau"^ — no evidence of subsidence, but merely the wear- 

 ing action or scour of the Gulf Stream, whose operations began at 

 about the close of the Cretaceous period. But I can see no facts 

 which support this double conclusion ; on the contrary there are 

 many — some of which have already been stated, and others which 

 can be drawn from the physiography of the region lying to the south 

 and southeast — which distinctly oppose it.^ The character of the 

 Cretaceous deposits pretty clearly indicates that at the time of their 

 formation they w^ere bounded by a deep sea, and that the Blake 

 Plateau could not have been built up until a time much later. The 

 fact that off the coasts of North and South Carolina " small rocky 

 banks slightly raised above the general level of the sea-bottom" oc- 

 cur which seemingly represent " the continuation of the Tertiary 

 beds found inland along the adjoining shores," and that the Gulf 

 Stream for much of its course in this region sweeps over a bottom 

 of " hard limestone"* also argues in favor of a late subsidence. 

 Suess with more justice, it seems to me, argues that the base of 



1 " Three Cruises of the Blake," I, p. 136. 



2 Loc. cit. 



3 I am not absolutely certain as regards Agassiz's explanation of Gulf 

 Stream wear. While on pp. 137 and 138 the course of the stream is very definitely 

 traced, from the close of the Cretaceous period, in a northeasterly direction across 

 what is now the peninsula of Florida (or through the Straits of Florida) and the 

 Blake Plateau, we find on page 113 that a similar stream, at about the same time 

 (or even later ?), may have swept "round the north end of the Bahamas across 

 Florida, which did not then exist, across the Gulf of Mexico, and into the Pacific 

 over the Isthmus of Tehuantepec." 



4 A. Agassiz. Op. cit. p. 277. 




1891.] NATURAL SCIENCES eft- PHILADELPHIA. 157 



the Bahamas is a Miocene rock,' and for anything we now know to 

 to the contrary, the reef-structures may be imposed upon a Pliocene 

 formation. 



AVhile perhaps we have no positive knowledge in the premises, I 

 think it more than probable, following Suess,' thattheGulf of Mex- 

 ico represents a subsiding basin similar to the Caribbean Sea, and 

 here again a parallel can be established with the eastern basin of the 

 Mediterranean. The close api:)roximation of the 500, 1000 and 

 1500 fathom lines off the western borders of the Florida and Yuca- 

 tan plateaus seemingly points to such subsidence, and it suggests, as, 

 indeed, Suess has already intimated, that the breakage actually took 

 place through the Florida-Yucatan Plateau. That the Mexican 

 waters already existed as far back as the Cretaceous period is abund- 

 antly proved by the Cretaceous deposits wliich extend throughout 

 the Gulf area, but it Avould seem that the great depth which the 

 basin now has was acquired at a comparatively recent geological 

 period, much of it probably at a time when many of the larger Mam- 

 malia which now inhabit the land-surface had already been intro- 

 duced, and long after the Mississippi discharged near to (or in ad- 

 vance^ of) its present mouth. Perhaps the absence over the greater 

 part of the Gulf area of the newer Tertiary deposits which occur 

 elsewhere along the southern United States may be explained on the 

 assumption of disappearance through subsidence ; at any rate, their 

 non-existence is a suggestive fact. 



To what extent the assumed subsidence of the Gulf basin may 

 have been connected with volcanic phenomena, or have been in- 

 duced through sedimental accumulation, as Prof Shaler suggests/ 

 cannot, with our present knowledge, be determined ; probably both 

 forces have acted toward a common result. 



Just as we look upon the Gulf and Caribbean basins as subsided 

 areas, so may we re gard the Yucatan and Florida Passages, and to 



1 Antlitz der Erde, II, p. 161. On the island of Antigua the rock containing 

 Orbitoides dips beneath the sea. Since the above was written, it has been shown 

 that the Oligocene deposits (containing Orbitoides) of southeastern Florida extend 

 down to a depth of at least 1200 feet ; the data were obtained from a boring made 

 at Lake Worth, east of Lake Okeechobee (Darton, in Am. Journ. Science Feb 

 1891). 



2 Antlitz der Erde, I, p. 365 ; II, p. 159. 



^ The position of the supposed ancient channel. 



* The Topography of Florida, Bull. Mus. Comp. Zoology, XVI. 




158 PROCEEDINGS (fF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



approximately the same period of time can we assign their forma- 

 tion. That actual movements have taken place in the region under 

 consideration at a quite recent period is proved by the uplift of the 

 Yucatan mountains,^ which, as has already been stated, belong with 

 little doubt to the Pliocene period. 



^ Prof. Shaler has suggested that possibly the Florida plateau has been in 

 part squeezed up through the downfall of the Gulf basin. With a subsiding area 

 on either side of it (repeated again in the case of the Yucatan plateau) this does 

 not appear improbable, and perhaps the gentle axial fold of the j^eninsula is evi- 

 dence of this compressional uplift. 




1891.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



159 



March 3. 

 Dr. Geo. H. Horn in the chair. 

 Twenty-two persons present. 



March 10. 



The President, Dr. Leidy, in the chair. 

 Twenty-six persons present. 



Papers under the following titles were presented for publication : — 

 Fossil Faunas of Central Iowa. By Charles R. Keyes. 

 Notice of some Entozoa. By Joseph Leidy, M. D. 



On the Young of Baculites compressas Say. — Mr. Amos P. Brown 

 described the young of Baculites compressns Say, recently discovered 

 by him in some cretaceous marl from the vicinity of Deadwood, 

 South Dakota. Associated with them in the same material were 

 several species of Baculites, Scaphites and Inoceramus. The young 



t^tf 



■'^J 



Baculites were of the form shown in figures 1 and 2 and varied in 

 length from 1 to 3 cm., with a diameter of 0"4 to 2 mm. Other 

 larger fragments with the spiral end broken oflT were found from 

 1'5 to 6 cm. in diameter. An examination of the form of the septa 

 and suture lines showed the forms to belong to the Ammonitidae, 

 and by the examination of an extensive series it was possible to 

 determine the genus and species. 




160 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



The shell originates in a spiral of two to two and one-half turns, 

 ranging in breadth from 0'8 to 1 mm., thence it extends in a straight 

 line, tangent to the spiral, figure 1, or sometimes slightly reflexed, 

 iigure 2. The straight portion of the shell rapidly increases in 

 ■diameter from ()'38 to 0'40 mm. at the spiral to about 1'5 to 2 mm. , 

 at 2 cm. length. Many shells were covered by the nacreous shell 

 substance, some being preserved entire, figure 2, while in others the 

 shell had been dissolved away leaving the suture lines exposed as 

 in figure 1. On breaking away the pearly exterior of forms like 

 figure 2 it was found that the last chamber occupied about one-half 

 the length of the shell. The shell of the outer spires somewhat 

 envelops the inner so that from the outside view the exact form of 

 the spiral cannot be measured, it was found, however, to closely 

 approximate the mathematical curve known as the hyperbolic 

 spiral. That the spiral origin of this shell was not smaller than 

 that of allied genera was demonstrated by grinding cross sections of 

 the shell of Scaphites Conradi Morton ; the first two turns of its 

 spiral being 1 mm. in breadth. The siphon in i?oc?<//fes is eccentric 

 and was found to lie nejir the outer margin of the spiral, being 

 easily seen in the fractured spirals. 



The species was determined from an examination of the form of 

 the sutures which may be traced from the simple form of that of 

 figure 1, through forms of gradually increasing complexity shown 

 in figures 3, 4, 5, and 6, the latter being the typical suture of the 

 adult of Baeulites compressus Say. In figure 5, an individual of 

 6 mm. diameter, the suture of the adult form is already well out- 

 lined, the s|)ecific distinction, the two deep sinuses on the right 

 hand, being well mai'ked. 



The speaker further stated that he had been unable in the lit- 

 erature of the subject to find any reference to this spiral termina- 

 tion of Baeulites, and believed the observation to be new. That 

 this spiral termination has not been formerly observed was not 

 strange in view of its small size and fragile character, it being 

 ])r()bal)ly ])roken off long before the shell had attained adult size ; 

 and it would only be preserved when as in the present instance the 

 shells were preserved in their immature condition. This observa- 

 tion tends to prove that Baeulites originated from a coiled form, 

 and is not as supposed by some palaeontologists the original form 

 of the Amman itidae, but is rather to be looked upon as an uncoiled 

 form developed from originally coiled parents. 



March 17. 

 ]\Ir. Charles Morris in the chair. 

 Twenty-six persons present. 



A paper entitled '" Catalogue of the Corvidae, Paradiseidae and 

 Oriolidae in the Collection of the Academy of Natural Sciences of 

 Philadelphia," by Witmer Stone, was presented for publication. 




1891.] natural sciences of philadelphia. 161 



March 24. 

 Dr. D. G. Brinton in the chair. 

 Twenty persons present. 



The death of S. S. Rathvon, a member, was announced. 

 The following communication was read : — 



REPORT OF EXPERIMENTS NOW BEING PURSUED IN THE BACTERIO- 

 LOGICAL LABORATORY OF THE ACADEMY. 



BY SAMUEL G. DIXON, M. D. 



Experiments show that the twenty-fifth and the second growths 

 of the tubercle bacillus will multiply with great rapidity when 

 planted on a nutrient medium made up of: — 



Extract of Beef 25. o- 



700.cc 



I5.g 



5-g 

 300.cc 

 100.00 



Aq : Dist : 



Dry peptone 



Agar-agar 



Chlor. Soda ...... 



Dist. Water (added.) .... 



Glycerine ...... 



The turbidity is removed by the slow mixing of the whites of two 

 hens eggs. 



If four distinct needle tracks are made with these bacilli length- 

 -wise in a half-inch tube containing this medium, the entire surface 

 will be covered with a thin layer of tuberculous growth within five 

 weeks. The l)acilli from the twenty-fifth culture present a variety 

 of forms, some club-shaped, others branched, while many would 

 appear to grow to a great length, certainly measuring in some in- 

 stances three times that of the average tubercle bacillus described 

 by the authorities on this organism. 



To obtain the toxic substance of bacilli, they may be floated in a 

 liquid medium. By this method we can filter out the toxic sub- 

 stance without submitting the medium to heat. With some of the 

 toxic agents generated by aerobic micro-organisms, this method will 

 prove of vital importance, as heat destroys many of the ptomaines. 

 Tiie tuberculous poison is most readily and cheaply obtained 

 from tuberculous lungs of cows and the viscera of other animals. 

 Before giving a resume of the simple method of obtaining the toxic 

 agent from the lungs, I wish to thank Dr. Francis Bridge, State 

 Veterinary Inspector, for his kindness in furnishing the Laboratory 

 with tuberculous material. It is owing to his courteous attention 




162 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



that I have never wanted for tuberculous hmgs of cows since 1889. 

 He has supplied the numerous demands at the shortest possible notice, 

 and has insisted upon contributing his time and trouble for the 

 benefit of science. 



The tuberculous mass is first placed in a mortar and then finely 

 chopped up with a pair of shears. Then it is thoroughly mashed 

 with a pestle, and treated with water, or better still with water and 

 glycerine, for twelve hours at a low temperature. It has been my 

 habit, however, to expose it to a temperature of 40° C. for twelve 

 hours longer; after which the substance is poured into a Chamber- 

 lain-Pasteur filtering tube, which it is permitted to slowly pass 

 through without pressure. 



Its eflfect on tuberculous animals would seem to be about as repre- 

 sented by the following reaction : — 



Tuberculous Cow. Before inoculation temperature 101° F. 3 cc. 

 of filtrate was subcutaneously injected at 10 a. m. At 5 p. m. 

 temperature was 102° ; at 10 p. m. 103° ; at 12 p. m. 1031° ; at 10 

 a. m. 1011°. 



Guinea Pigs.' No. 3-A. At 11 a. m. the temperature was 1011°; 

 at 1 p. m. 101° ; at 3 p. ra. 101°. At 2.20 p. m. 1-20 cc. of tubercu- 

 lous agent from lung was subcutaneously injected. At 5.45 the 

 temperature was 101i°; at 7 p.m. 102°; at 11 p.m. 101*°; at 

 1.30 a. m. 101f° ; at 8 a. m. 101 1° ; at 12.30 p. m. 1001° ; at 3 

 p. m. 1011°. 



No. 4-A. At 11 a. m. 10U° ; at 1 p. m. 101 T ; at 3 p. ra. 1011° : 

 At this time 1-10 cc. toxic agent from lung of a cow subcutane- 

 ously injected. 



At 5.45 p. m. temperature 102*° ; at 7 p. m. 103i° ; at 11 }.. ni. 

 1021° ; at 1.30 p. m. 1011° ; at 8 a. m. 1011° ; at 12.30 p. m. 102i° ; 

 at 3 p.m. 1011°. 



In addition to my last report of investigations I have to refer 

 to the treatment of tuberculosis by subcutaneous injections of 

 dilute sulphuric acid and formic acid. Under each of these methods 

 the animals would appear to be doing better than the check guinea 

 pigs not so treated, yet suflScient time has not elapsed for me to make 

 any post-mortems to determine the processes going on in the vis- 

 cera. The points of inoculation, however, have healed beautifully 

 and the animals would appear to be doing well. The experiments 

 towards the j^ecuring of immunity are still being conducted and the 



1 Temperature in the Guinea pig is not constant ; and therefore not as reliable 

 for experimentation as either the cow or dog. 




1891.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 163 



results certainly show that the animal organism can be cultivated 

 to resist inoculations of the tubercle bacillus to a greater or less 

 degree, as is shown by a copy of the record book in a few of the 

 cases under treatment. 



Rabbit D-100. Jan. 10th, 1891. Inoculated with a mass of 

 twenty-fifth artificial cultivation of bovine tubercle bacillus. 



Feb. 16th, 1891. Inoculated again from the same tube as in 

 January. 



Feb. 28th, 1891. Inoculated with a mass of second artificial cul- 

 tivation of bovine tubercle bacilli. 



At this time the animal presents a healthy appearance and the 

 points of inoculation have healed up. 



Rabbit D-IOl. Showed the same result as rabbit D-100 



Without going into further detail, [ will simply state that a num- 

 ber of guinea pigs have given like results ; whereas the animals in- 

 oculated with a mass of the second cultivation of bovine tubercle 

 bacilli, not having been previously inoculated with the attenuated 

 virus, sickened with tuberculosis and in some instances died. 



The last experiments confirm the fact that the tubercle bacillus 

 does lose its virulence to a certain degree by cultivating it con- 

 tinuously on an artificial medium. 



Dog C— 1. Eight weeks old, weight 1^ lbs. Was inoculated 

 with second artificial culture of bovine tubercle bacillus and died 

 within ten days, of toxsemia. 



Dog C-2. Same age and weight as C-1. Under the same treat- 

 ment, also sickened with tuberculosis. 



Dog C-3. Same age and weight as C-1. Was at the same time 

 inoculated with twenty-fifth artificial culture of bovine tubercle 

 bacillus. While the others sickened with tuberculosis, this one 

 shows no outward manifestation of the malady. 



In one of my recent communications, I referred to the fact that I 

 had been injecting predigested fat plus antiseptics into the intestinal 

 tract of animals suffering from tuberculosis with some success and 

 also that I was subcutaueously introducing some of the bile salts. 

 The results from the bile salts have not been at all constant ; while 

 the subcutaneous injection of glycerine into the tuberculous animals, 

 which I recently referred to in a Medical Journal of this city, has 

 apparently given a result which will stimulate work in this direction. 



Two dogs eight weeks old had respectively a mass of the second 

 cultivation of bovine tubercle bacilli subcutaueously introduced. 




164 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



In seven days one was dead apparently from the toxic effect of the 

 product of the bacilli. 



The day that this dog died, the other presented a line of symptoms 

 indicating toxaemia to a very marked degree. The animal was 

 hardly able to stand and I had every reason to believe it was fast 

 losing its vitalit3\ 



One-half cc. of pure glycerine, well diluted, was subcutaneously 

 introduced. In a short time the animal showed physical improve- 

 ment and in twelve hours it was restored to apparently a good con- 

 dition. It would seem that the glycerine enabled the viscera to 

 get rid of the toxic agent that otherwise would have passed into the 

 general circulation. 



March 31. 

 Mr. Charles Morris in the chair. 



A paper entitled " On Paramelaconite and the associated Miner- 

 als," by Geo. A. Koenig was presented for publication. 



The deaths of Wistar INIorris, a member, and P. W. Sheafer, a 

 correspondent, were announced. 



George S. Morris, Lieut. R. E. Peary, U. S. N., William D. 

 Robinson, M. D. and Edgar Strayer, M. D. were elected members. 



The following were ordered to be printed : — 




1891.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 165 



ON SOME RECENT JAPANESE BEACHIOPODA, WITH A DESCRIPTION 

 OF A SPECIES BELIEVED TO BE NEW. 



BY W. H. DALL AND H. A. PILSBRY. 



The collection of Brachiopoda described in the following pages 

 was made by Mr. Frederick Stearns of Detroit, Michigan, when 

 travelling in Japan during the years 1889-90. The specimens were 

 dredged in depths not exceeding thirty fathoms, at localities along 

 the eastern coast southward from Tokyo to Kii Channel and in the 

 Inland Sea as far south as Jojo-sima. 



The specimens are in the collections of the Academy of Xatural 

 Sciences of Philadelphia and of Mr. Stearns. 



Cenus TEREBRATULA Auct. 

 Terebratula (.Davidsoni var?) Stearnsii, Uall and Pilsbry, Plate IV, figs. 1-3. 



Shell large, waxen white or yellowish, smooth except for lines of 

 growth, somew'hat wedge-shaped, laterally compressed behind, wider 

 in front, valves moderately inflated, larger or neural valve subtri- 

 angular in outline, deep, the sides flattened, straight, diverging, the 

 front margin evenly rounded; viewed laterally the profile of the 

 line (the haemal valve being downward) between the two valves 

 rises slightly to a weak flexure in front of the hinge plate and then 

 descends forming a long curve, rising to a more marked flexure al- 

 most an angle, where the sides meet the front margin ; between the 

 two anterior angles the anterior margin of the neural valve is mod- 

 erately convex downward while the hsemal valve, subangulate at 

 the corners, is correspondingly excavated between them ; the mid- 

 dle portion of the neural valve is slightly flattened as in Eudesia 

 Maphaelis, the beak is prominent, high and inflated, the foramen 

 large, circular and (in the specimen) much worn, the lower part pro- 

 jects curving downward to a point, but does not touch the hfemal 

 valve when the shell is closed ; deltidial area narrow, with no mesial 

 groove, bordered by a sharp angle and concavely excavated. The 

 haemal or smaller valve is less flattened and shallower than the 

 other, the apex is entirely concealed under the curved beak of the 

 opposite valve ; internally the cardinal process is rounded, the hinge 

 short and rather weak, unsupported by any buttresses; there is no 

 mesial septum in either valve ; the partial sinuses are barely distin- 

 guishable, there seems to have been five in the neural and four in 




166 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



hsenial valve, narrow, slender, extending straight forward and be- 

 ginning to dichotomize only near the front margin. The loop re- 

 sembles somewhat that of T. depressa Lam , and is especially nota- 

 ble fn- the breadth of the lamina and the keeled mesial ridge of 

 the anterior transverse portion ; this part is usually more rounded- 

 over in Terehratula. 



Long, of neural valve 48*5 ; max. lat. of the same 38"0 ; max. 

 diameter of shell 28*0 mm. 



Habitat, eastern coast of Japan, Province of Kii. 



This shell recalls some varieties of T. depressa Lamarck from the 

 Greensand of Britain. As the specimen is unique, it was not thought 

 best to separate the valves to study the loop but sufficient could be 

 seen from the natural opening to determine that the species belongs 

 rather to the T. vitrea type than to that of T. sphenoidea. From 

 both and from any other species known, it differs in the prominence 

 and narrowness of the mesial bend or fold in the transverse anterior 

 part of the loo]). 



There is no species known from Japan or the Pacific which could 

 be identified with this one unless it be the Terebratida Davidsoni A. 

 Adams, which is treated by Dr. Davidson in his last publication 

 (Trans. Linn. Soc, Zoology, 2nd Ser. part 1, p. 9, PI. 1, figs. 14-16, 

 1886) under the head of Liothyris vitrea var? Davidsoni but which 

 can hardly be regarded as varietally connected with T. vitrea. 



T. Davidsoni is only known from two small specimens dredged in 

 55 fathoms at Satanomosaki, Japan, by A. Adams. Dr. Davidson 

 says " I am not certain that this small species is really a variety of 

 T. vitrea, * * * they much resemble the typical var, ?«mor. One of 

 the specimens bore some resemblance to young examples of Liothy- 

 ris uva from the Gulf of Tehuantepec ; but difl^ers from it, accord- 

 ing to A. Adams, in its more solid structure and globose form and 

 in the foramen being smaller and entire" (op. cit. p. 10). From 

 the figures and observations which have been published, it would 

 seem highly probable that T. Davidsoni is an adult shell measuring 

 about 18'0 mm. in length while the young of T. Stearnsii, as indi- 

 cated by the lines of growth, is a more circular shell in outline and 

 less evenly globose. The specimen figured shows no indication of 

 compression or distortion and the wedge-like outline of the adult 

 seems normal. If this conclusion is correct and this peculiarity be 

 constant, the species will be well characterized by it. We are of the 

 opinion that the species is distinct from T. Davidsoni, but leave the 




1891.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 167 



question open until more material shall be available. We have 

 •dedicated the new species to Mr. Stearns from whom it was received. 

 With regard to its relations to T. uva, it may be observed that spec- 

 imens of T. uva in the National Museum from Guayaquil, have an 

 entire foramen, as figured by Dr. Davidson, as does the original 

 type specimen, so that the implication of A. Adams is not sustained 

 by the facts. But T. vva is readily distinguished from any other 

 .species by the fact that it is finely obsoletely radiated all over, with 

 rather sparse radii, situated much as in T. subquadrata Jeffreys, but 

 less sharp and wider. To a casual inspection the shell appears 

 smooth, but a careful examination reveals the sculpture. T. Stearn- 

 sii is destitute of such radii. The relative size of the foramen in 

 Terebratula, of course, is a character of no importance. Its mar- 

 gins are always eroded and its size depends entirely on the amount 

 of friction to which it has been subjected during life. Specimens of 

 L. vitrea from still, deep water, which were attached only to very 

 small branches of decorticated Gorgonians, have an extremely min- 

 ute foramen ; while specimens from more agitated waters, attached 

 to rock or coral surfaces, have quite a large pedicle and foramen. 



Genus TEEEBRATULINA Orbigny. 



Terebratulinu Crossei Davidson. 



Terebratuiina Crosei DaviJson, Journ. ile Conchyl. XXX, p. 106. ].l. YII, fig. ], 

 1S82 ; Trans. Linn. Soc. 2, Zool. IV, p. 33, \A. Ill, figs. 4-6, 1886. 



Two specimens of this fine species were included in the series sent 

 by Mr. Stearns. They were attached to a large fragment of a sili- 

 •cious sponge. Habitat, "Inland sea," south of Province Kii. 



GeniK TEREBRATELLA Orbigny. 



Owing to the peculiar development through w^hich the loop passes 

 before reaching the adult condition it is quite certain that Eudesia 

 (or Waldheiniia of most authors) belongs in the subfamily contain- 

 ing Terebratella and Megerlia rather than that to which Terebra- 

 tula proper and Terebratuiina, may be referred. 

 Terebratella Gouldii Call. Plate IV. figs. 4-5. 



Mogasella Gouldii \)a\\^ P. Z. S. 1871. p. 307. pi. XXXI, fig. lla-c. Davidson, 

 op. cit., p. 96, pi. XVII, figs. 20-22, 1887. {Magasella Stage.) 



Shell waxen white, more or less stained with extraneous dark 

 brown or black matter, large, thin ; evenly radiately sculptured 

 with uniform equal delicate cost* separated by very distinct but not 

 very deep interspaces of about equal width ; the costse begin to 




168 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



dichotomize about the middle of the shell and maintain a remark- 

 ably uniform size over the whole surface but do not crenulate the 

 adult margin; there are about 13 costse to a centimeter of width; 

 valves wider behind the middle, haemal valve with a very faint con- 

 cave medial flexure or concavity (possibly due to an injury in youth) 

 marked on the anterior margin by an obscure wave at each side and, 

 on the neural or larger valve, by an analogous eminence or reverse 

 flexure : the anterior margin otherwise is rather evenly rounded ; 

 hsemal valve flattish, in the type specimen with some indentations 

 near the beak which show that its growth was cramped when young 

 by projections of the stone to which it was attached or some other 

 agency ; beak of the hsemal valve not prominent; cardinal process 

 obscure, concave medially; cardinal margin extensive nearly 

 straight ; neural valve more convex, beak not very prominent, con- 

 considerably eroded ; lateral areas flattened, foramen incomplete, 

 the grooves marking off the pseudo-deltidia on each side very oblique 

 obscure and close to the edge of the hiatus ; interior with the pallial 

 sinuses large, one on each side and arborescent but obscure on 

 account of the condition of the specimen ; neural valve with a short 

 obscure thickened septal line mesially ; hiemal valve with a well- 

 elevated, subtriangular, rather short septum to which the lower por- 

 tion of the loop is attached on each side by a slender ])rocess ; loop 

 very slender throughout, the transverse processes situated very near 

 the crura which are rather strong; the anterior part of the loop 

 reaching within a centimeter of the anterior margin before recurving, 

 the recurved portion very narrow and delicate ; the hinge is later- 

 ally well extended but feeble. Max. lat. 42'0 ; long, of neural valve 

 37-0 ; diameter of shell 20*0 mm. 



Habitat, eastern coast of Japan, between Yeddo and Oshima. 



It is now well understood, through the researches of Mr. Herman 

 Friele and subsequently of Dr. Davidson and others, that the stages 

 of development having their permanent representatives in the genera 

 Magasella, Terebratella and Waldhelmia are successively exhibited 

 in the development of the last mentioned, while Terebratella stops 

 short with the second stage. Consequently, when a small species of 

 Magasella is discovered, it may be taken for granted that a large 

 species of one of the three above mentioned genera exists in the 

 vicinity, and it is impossible to say which, unless the series is traced. 

 Usually the large adult form has been found first, and, when two 

 names have been applied to the stages, that of the Magasella, or 




1891.] NATURAL SCIE^X'ES OF PHILADELPHIA. 169 



smallest stage, is generally the one which falls into synonymy. 

 Many of the latter were named and properly discriminated before 

 the connection between them was understood, though the remark- 

 able parallel between them was pointed out in detail in these Pro- 

 ceedings in 1873. One such case was that of two Magaseike de- 

 scribed by Mr. Dall and the late Dr. Davidson, respectively, in the 

 paper on Japanese brachiopods published by the latter in 1871. 

 Mr. Dall has since been able, by the examination of a graded series, 

 to trace the adult of Magasella Adamsi Davidson to Eudesia Grayi 

 Davidson. The M. Adaimi differed from the M. Gonldii Dall in 

 its coarser radii, in having its mesial flexure in the opposite dii'ec- 

 tion and by its less transverse form. The long sought for adult of 

 M. Adamsi is at last supplied by the present species, which in spite 

 of the difference in size, differs from the adult Eudesia Grayi in 

 much the same- way. The character of the sculpture and the direc- 

 tion of the flexure being quite the same, as well as the transverse 

 form, there can be no reasonable doubt that the two ffre thus gene- 

 tically connected. The direction of the flexure, which at best is 

 very feeble in the normal adult E. Grayi, may change in growth 

 or become asymmetrical, so that the slight concavity is in the 

 smaller valve, but this is not the case in the Magasella stage, and 

 in fact is only evident in the variety transversa Davidson. 



The transverse processes of the present specimen are represented 

 only by small remnants attached to the loop near the crura and to 

 the short septum. Still the size of the specimen is so large that this 

 deficiency is probably to be attributed to accident or injury, rather 

 than an indication that T. Gouldii progresses to the Eudesia stage 

 and is, in its final adult form, a Eudesia. 



The transverse form of the shell favors the opinion that it does 

 not develop beyond the Terebratella stage, the dimensions of the 

 specimen also point toward its being adult, since no instance is 

 known of a subordinate stage of any brachiopod reaching more than 

 one quarter this size before the transformation of the loop becomes 

 complete. 



This fine and remarkable species is distinctively characterized by 

 its fine and uniform sculpture. It most resembles T. crnenta, of 

 New Zealand, which is bright red, a much coarser and heavier shell, 

 with a complete foramen and much more prominent beak. They 

 cannot be confounded by any one who carefully inspects them. 

 The nearest Japanese resemblance is offered bv Eudesia Grayi 

 12 ~ 




170 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



which is even coarser than T. cruenta so that there seems no reason, 

 even in tlie absence of the loop, why they shonld not readily be 

 distinguished. 



The following stages are now known in Pacific brachiopods, an 

 asterisk indicating the adult stage : — 



MAGASELLA. TEREBRATELLA. EUDESIA. 



M. Aleutica Dall, = T. frontalis Midd* 



3f.AdarnslDav., = T. =E.GrayiDa\* 



M. Icevis Dall, =^ T. pulvinata Gld., = E. venosa Sol.* 



3L Gonldii Dall, = T. Gouldii Dall * 

 M. = T. Coreanica Reeve,* 



M. radiata Dall, = t T. transversa Sby.* 

 M. Patagonica Gld. =: T. dorsata Gmel.* 



M. = (Megerlia) Jeffreysi Dall = (Laqueus) Cali- 



foriiicHS^ Koch. 



Subgenus LAQUEUS Dall. 



Terebratella (Laqueus) Blanfordi Dunker. 



Terehratula fi/atifordi Dkr.. Ind. Moll. Mar. .la])., j). 2.il, j)l. XIV, figs. 4-6, T882. 

 Terebratella Blanfordi Davidson, op. cit., j). S3, pi. XV, figs. 9-12, 1887. 



Two specimens of this fine species are included in the lot sent. 

 They show that this species instead of being a typical Terebratella 

 is a Laqueus and the one of all the species of this North Pacific 

 group which shows the peculiarly complicated loop in its finest 

 development and strength. These also show that, in life, the pallial 

 sinuses are red in color, broad and branched, somewhat as in Eudesia 

 venosa, a fact which has not hitherto been noticed. The s])ecimens 

 are from the eastern coast. 

 Laqueus rubellus G. B. Sowerby. 



Terebratula rubella Sowb., Proc. Zool. Soc. Lond. 1846, p. 94. 

 Laqueus rubellus Davidson, op. cit., p. 113, pi. XIX, figs. 1-5. 



Numerous specimens of this beautiful species were collected along 

 the coast at and near Joja Shima. Some of them are quite as 

 brilliantly striped as the figures in Sowerby's Thesaurus, which 

 Davidson seems to think exaggerated. 



Genus EUDESIA King. 



Wal.iheimia King, Perm. Foss., p. 81, 1850; not of Brulle, Hist. Nat. Ins. 

 Hyuienopt. IV, ]>. 665, Nov., 1846; (Hymenoptera.) 



Eudesia King, Perm. Foss., p. 144, 1850; Dall, Index Names of Brach. Bull. U. S. 

 Nat. Mus. VIII, p. 28, 1877. 




1891.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADET-PIIIA. 171 



Cudesia Raphaelis Dall. 



Waldheimia Raphaelis Dall, Am. Journ. Conch. VT, p. ?>, pi, VII, figs, a-d, 1870. 

 David.-Jon, op. cit., p. 58. pi. XI, figs. 11-13, 1887. 



Japanese coast near Yeddo, Pumpelly. Sagarai Bay, 100-200 

 fathoms, Diiderlein. 



A single specimen somewhat smaller and more wedge-shaped than 

 the original type, and with stronger folds, was included in the lot 

 sent. 



This shows the deep brown color to be a constant character and 

 confirms the opinion of the writers and the late Dr. Davidson as to 

 the validity of this species, which had been referred to E. septigera 

 b)' Dr. Jeffreys. 




172 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [189L 



NOTES ON SOME RECENT BRACHIOPODS. 



BY WM. H. DALL. 



Terebratella transversa Sowerby. Plate IV, figs. 8, 9. 



T. transversa Sowerby, P. Z. S. 1846, p. 94. Dall, Proc. Acad. Xat. Sci. Phila., 

 1873. p. 185. Davidson, Linn. Soc. Trans, iv, p. 78, 1887 (partly). 

 T. cauriua Gould, Proc. Bost. Soc. Nat. Hist. Ill, p. 347, 1850. 



Habitat, the Oregonian province, including the southern part of 

 Alaska and thence southward to San Pedro, California, low water 

 to 100 fathoms. 



I include this species because it is to some extent mixed up with 

 the history of Eudesia Grayi and the present seems a good time to 

 clear up the confusion. 



Eudesia (or Waldheim'id) Grayi is a well characterized Japanese 

 species somewhat resembling the rounder sculptured forms of T. 

 transversa but with a different loop and hardly any mesial flexure. 

 It had been erroneously reported from Catalina Island, California 

 and an examination of the specimens so named showed that they 

 belong to the genus Terebratella and I named them accordingly 

 Terebratella occidentalis. The Californian shell is quite rare and^ 

 fifteen years afterwards, having found that T. transversa is occasion- 

 ally marked with crimson, I began to suspect that my occidentalis 

 was merely a brighter colored, more sharply sculptured southern 

 race of transversa. The types of occidentalis being inaccessible, I 

 had no means of deciding in regard to this suspicion which was com- 

 municated to the late Dr. Thos. Davidson with the result that cer- 

 tain varieties of transversa were (as it now appears wrongly) identi- 

 fied and figured as my occidentalis. In the last publication of Dr, 

 Davidson (Trans. Linn. Soc. 2, Zool. IV, pi. 16) figs. 14 and 14a 

 represent a variety of T. transversa but not T. occidentalis as there 

 supposed. Figure 13 is a reproduction of ray original, rather ob- 

 scure figure of occidentalis. The reception of a fine specimen of oc- 

 cidentalis collected by the U. S. Fish Com. Str. Albatross and an 

 opportunity of inspecting my original types now in the museum of 

 the State University at Berkeley, California, has shown that the two 

 forms are perfectly distinct and T. occidentalis is therefore to be 

 reinstated in its independence. 



T. transversa has two principal varieties, a nearly smooth and 

 somewhat rounded form, which might retain in a varietal sense the 




1891.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 173 



original name, since it has been so applied by Davidson (op. cit. pi. 

 16) ; while the other is still more transverse, strongly sculptured, and 

 for which Davidson has retained Gould's name of caurina. The 

 latter form is more commonly found near shore and even just below 

 low water of extreme spring tides. In deep, quieter water it grows 

 to a much larger size and is smoother ; in one collected by Prof O. 

 B. Johnson of Seattle, State of Washington, in the deep water off Port 

 Orchard, Puget Sound, the neural valve measures 50 mm. high and 

 58 mm. wide, while the two closed valves have a diameter of Sl'O 

 mm. This places the species among the largest living brachiopods 

 and certainly the largest living Terebratella as far as known. In 

 specimens from south of San Francisco the livid pink of the north- 

 ern form is frequently replaced by a vivid crimson. 



Terebratella occidentalis Dall. Plate IV, figs. C, 7. 



TerebratJla occidetilalis Dall, Proc. Cal. Acad. Sci., IV, p. 182, pi. 1, fig. 7, 1871. 

 Proe. Acad, Nat. Sci. Phil., 1873, p. 18-t. 



Terebratella transversa Davidson, in part, not of Sowerbj. 



Monterey and Santa Barbara Islands, California, Dall, Cooper, 

 etc. 



A fine specimen dredged off San Clemente Island, California, by 

 the U. S. Fish Commission Steamer Albatross, shows that this spe- 

 cies is distinguished from T. traiisversa Sowerby and all others by 

 the fact that its strong mesial fold is convex in the smaller or hse- 

 mal valve instead of concave ; in the smaller number and more 

 angular character of its radiating ribs ; and from northern 2\ trans- 

 versa in being pure white, painted with crimson, instead of gray or 

 orange ferruginous ; though in the matter of color the southern 

 specimens of transvtrsa. are like occidentalis. 



Eudesia (venosa Sol. var. 1\ lenticularis Deshaj-es. 



Waldheimia lenticularis (Desh., 1839), Davidson, op. cit. p. 52, pi. IX, figs. 2-13, 

 ISSti. 



Tirebratula pulvinata (iould, Proc. Best. Soc. Nat. Hist., Ill, p. 347, 1850. 



Terebratella pulvinata Carpenter, Dall, et. al., Davidson, op. cit. p. 90, pi. XVI, 

 fig. 15, 1887. 



Habitat, New Zealand, Hutton, Dr. Kershner, U. S. K ; Pata- 

 gonia, U. S. Expedition under Wilkes, also U. S. Fish Commission 

 Steamer Albatross, at Stations 2778 and 2779 in Magellan Strait at 

 a depth of 60-80 fathoms. Not " Puget Sound " as originally 

 stated by Gould, from erroneous labels of the Wilkes Expedition. 



£. lenticularis is not well distinguished from varieties of E. venosa 

 and is, probably, in its typical form a local race, representing for 

 New Zealand the Patagonian venosa. Strictly intermediate speci- 




174 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



mens are in the U. S. National Museum from the Straits of jNIagel- 

 ]an. I showed a good many years ago that the Puget Sound local- 

 ity was an error and that Gould's specimen almost certainly came 

 from Orange Harbor, Patagonia. The figures given by Davidson 

 from New Zealand specimens of the stages through which Eadesia 

 lentieularis ])asses, before assuming its normal adult loop, show con- 

 clusively that Gould's Te7-ebrati(lapuhinata is the Terehratella stage 

 of the adolescent Eudesia lentieularis or the E. veiiosa from which 

 the former is doubtfully distinct. 



Dr. Davidson has suggested that it might be a smooth Terehra- 

 tella dorsata (op. cit. p. 91) but his first supposition that it was an 

 immature Etidesia venosa was much nearer the mark. It has noth- 

 ing of the aspect or texture of T. doj'sata, and, had the specimens 

 actually been examined by him, I think he would never have en- 

 tertained that idea. A second specimen agreeing with Gould's type 

 was found attached to an E. venosa collected at Orange Harbor. 



Genus MEGERLIA King. 

 Megerlia monstruosa Seaechi. 



Terebratula titom.tr iiosa Scacchi, Osscrv. Zool. 2, p. 8, 18.'?.S. 



Morrisia gigantea l)eshayes, Moll. Isle l?ourbon, ]>. 37, pi. 32, figs. 9-10, 1863. 



Megerlia truncata Linne, var. monstruosa Davidson, op. cit. p. 108, pi. XIX, figs. 

 21-22a, 1887. 



Megerlia disparilis Dall (name onlv) U. S. Xat. Mils ]5u11. No. 37. p. 28. No. 8, 

 1889. 



Habitat, Mediterranean, 15-229 fms. also the Atlantic in deep 

 water; Isle of Bourbon, near Mauritius, Maillard ; Barbados, on 

 dead coral from 100 fathoms, U. S. Fish Commission. 



The young shell referred to, which was obtained at Barbados 

 some years ago, presents some characters which greater age would 

 have obscured; the foramen, as in Platidia, occupies normally part 

 of both valves, and its margins, slightly prolonged do not show any 

 evidence of distortion, erosion or disease. The larger or neural 

 valve is covered with spongy tubercles arranged approximately on 

 the incremental lines but more or less irregular. The smaller or 

 neural valve is much smoother, and at this age marked only with 

 incremental lines. Neither valve shows any radiating ribs such as 

 are so strongly marked on the beaks of the average 3f. truncata. It 

 is well known to dredgers how abundant M. truncata is where it oc- 

 curs living at all. A moderately large cobble, overgrown with coral 

 or corallines will sometimes afford forty or fifty specimens. Now 

 there seems no reason to doubt the assigned habitat of Maillard's 




1891.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 175 



specimen, and that from Barbados is beyond dispute. Consequently 

 we have (if we persist in regarding M. monstruosa as a monstrous 

 form of ^f. truncata) the anomaly of a monstrous variety of a hrachio- 

 pod being found in widely separated parts of the world unaccom- 

 panied by the normal form. 



This I do not believe. For some time I have regarded the M. 

 moiistraosa as probably a distinct species. Dr. Davidson also had 

 strong suspicions of its distinctness ; refused to consider it as a mere 

 monstrosity, but, with characteristic caution, placed it in his last 

 work as a "variety" of 3/. truncata. I regard the discovery of this 

 MegerUa in the West Indies as conclusive evidence of its specific 

 independence of J/, truncata beside being an interesting addition to 

 the fauna of the Americas. 



Explanation of Plate IV. 



1. Terehratula Stearnsii Dall and Pilsbry ; 48'5. 



2. Terehratula Stearnsii, front view ; 33'0. 



3. Terehratula Stearnsii, side view ; 48*5. 



4. Terehratella Go uldii Dull ; 42-0. 



5. Terehratella Go aldii, side \\e^y ; 37'0. 



6. Terehratella occidentalis Dall, view of rather aged specimen ; 3r0. 



7. Terehratella occidentalis, same specimen from in front; 31'(). 



8. Terehratella transversa Sowerby, young specimen of same size as 



the preceding for comparison of sculpture and flexure ; 36*5. 



9. The same, front view ; 36"5. 



The numerals indicate the actual length in millimeters of the 

 longest diameter of the figure referred to, measured on the speci- 

 men figured when placed in the position represented. 




176 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



CRUSTACEA FROM THE NORTHERN COAST OF YUCATAN, THE HARBOR 



OF VERA CRUZ, THE WEST COAST OF FLORIDA AND 



THE BERMUDA ISLANDS. 



BY J. E. IVES. 



The Crustacea treated of in this paper were collected for the 

 greater part on the northern coast of Yucatan and in the harbor of 

 Vera Cruz, during the early months of 1890 by the Expedition in 

 charge of Professor Augelo Heilprin, sent by the Academy of Nat- 

 ural Sciences of Pliiladelphia to investigate the Natural History of 

 Yucatan and Mexico. The writer, who was a member of the Expedi- 

 tion, is indebted to Professor Heilprin for the opportunity of work- 

 ing up this portion of the collection. 



The paper also includes a list of the Crustacea collected upon the 

 west coast of Florida in the spring of 1886 by Professor Heilprin 

 and Mr. Joseph Willcox under the auspices of the Wagner Free 

 Institute of Science of Philadelphia,' and the description of a new 

 Iso!)od, collected by the Academy's Expedition to the Bermuda 

 Islands in 1888. 



It is remarkable that the shores of Yucatan and Mexico, portions 

 of the American Continent among the first to be discovered by 

 Europeans, should be among the last to have their zoology investi- 

 gated. Nothing whatever, with one or two isolated exceptions, 

 has been known hitherto of the fauna of the shores of Yucatan, and 

 very little of that of the eastern coast of Mexico. 



The material collected by the Expedition has added considerably 

 to the knowledge of this region. The carcinological results may be 

 briefly summarized as follows. 



Five new species and one new variety are described and figured: 

 a species described by Say from the coast of New Jersey and two 

 described by Dana from Rio Janeiro, and not referred to since their 

 original description, have been redescribed and one of them figured : 

 other little known and unfigured species have been figured ; and 

 some interesting conclusions have been arrived at in regard to the 

 synonymy of some of the species, and the geographical distribution 

 of the Crustacea of the Caribbean region. 



1 See Professor Heilprin's Report " Explorations on the west coast of Florida 

 and ill ihe Okeechobee Wilderness," Trans. Wagner Free Institute of Science, 

 vol. 1, 1887. 




1891.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF rHILADELPHIA. 177 



In reference to the character of the coasts upon which the speci- 

 mens were collected in Yucatan and Mexico, the following para- 

 graphs are quoted from the author's report upon the Echinodernis 

 collected by the Expedition.' 



" The northern coast of Yucatan possesses a sandy beach largely 

 made up of shell fragments. The water, off the coast, is very shal- 

 low, the 10 fathom line being 20 miles from the shore, and the 100 

 fathom line about 150 miles. Three miles off the shore, in the neigh- 

 borhood of Progreso, tlie bottom is of a sandy character, although a 

 few small corals were brought up in the dredge. Along the shore to 

 the westward of Progreso is a small Serpuloid reef. Large quantities 

 of sea-weed and sponges are thrown upon the beach and lie de- 

 composing in the sun. These and numerous water-worn specimens 

 of Orhicella anwilaris and a large Escharine species of Bryozoan, 

 with some specimens of Xiphogorgia anceps, indicate the exist- 

 ence of a region rich in animal and vegetable life not very far from 

 the shore." 



The harbor of Vera Cruz is an area of luxuriant coral growth, 

 madrepores and brain corals being especially abundant. 



The specimens from the west coast of Florida were collected in the 

 shallow waters of that region from Cedar Keys to the Caloosahat- 

 chie River. The sliore line consists of sandy or shelly beaches and 

 mud flats. The 10 and 100 fathom lines are about the same dis- 

 tance from the coast as in the case of northern Yucatan. 



While engaged in working upon the Brachyura discussed in the 

 following pages, the author came to the conclusion that it would be 

 advantageous to carcinologists to have a special term for the four jios- 

 terior pairs of appendages of crabs, now known as the" ambulatory 

 legs." The term cruriped,' a word of similar construction to cheli- 

 ped, has therefore been introduced. It was found that confusion 

 often arose in the use of the term legs, it being used indiscrim- 

 inately either for the four posterior pairs of appendages alone, 

 or for all five pairs. The term " ambulatory leg" used by 

 Mr. Miers and others is cumbersome, and may be well replaced 

 by c.ruriped. In the following pages, therefore, the term chelipeds 

 is used for the anterior pair of appendages of Brachyura, cruripeds 

 for the four posterior pairs of appendages and legs when speaking 

 of all five pairs. 



1 Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1890, pp. 317, 318. 

 - Crur leg, ped fool. 




178 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



The species enumerated and described below are arranged under 

 the localities in which they were collected. The systematic portion 

 of the paper is followed by some considerations in regard to their 

 geographical distribution and a chronological list of the general 

 literature of the higher Crustacea of the West Indian region which 

 it is believed will be of use to future students of these shores. 



YTJOATAN. 



DECAPODA. 



Ferioera trispinosa. 



Pisa trispinosa, Latreille, Encyclopedic t. x, p. 142. 



Pericera trispinosa, A. Milne- Edwards, Crust. Mis. Sci. Mex. p. .52, pi. 15, fig. 2. 



A single specimen, dredged in shallow water off Progreso. The 

 postero-lateral spines are much broader than in Guerin's' figure of 

 this species. The specimen closely resembles the figure given by 

 A. Milne-Edwards. Specimens in the collection of this Academy 

 from Cuba and the Tortugas closely resemble the specimen collected. 

 The living crab was of a bright scarlet color. 



Microphrys bicornutus. 



Pisa bicornutus, Latreille, Encyclopedia, t. x, p. 141. 



Microphys bicornutus, A. Milne-Edwards, Crust. Miss. Sci. Mex. p. 61, pi. xiv, 

 figs. 2-4. 



A young individual, dredged in 20 ft. of water off Progreso. 



Libinia dubia. 



Milne-Edwards, Hist. nat. Crust. Vol. I, p. 300, pi. xiv bis., fig. 2. 



A dead specimen collected upon the beach at the Port of Silara. 

 Panopetis Herbstii. 



Milne-Edwards, Hist nat. Crust, t. I, p. 403. 



A. Milne-Edwards, Crust. Miss. Sci. Mex. p. 308, pi. LVII, fig, 2. 



Two young males from the Port of Silam. 



Pilumnus aculeatus. 



Say, Tour. Acad. Nat. Sci. Fhila (1) Vol. I, p. 449. 



A. Milne-Edwards, Crust. Miss. Sci. Mex. p. 2S2, pi. L, fig. 1. 



Three specimens dredged in 20 feet of water off Progreso. 



Menippe mercenaria. 



Say, Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. (1) Vol. I, p. 448. 

 A young specimen from the Port of Silam. 



1 Iconographie du Regne animal de G. Cuvier, Crust, pi. 8, fig. 3. 




1891.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 179 



Eacratopsis crassimanas. 



Dana, U. S. Explor. Exped. Vol. XIII, Crust, p. 311, pi. 19, fig. 2a-(i. 

 S. I. Smith Trans. Conn. Acad. Vol. II, p. 35. 



A female of this interesting species was obtained at the Port of 

 Silam. Professor Dana de.scribed the species from a specimen ob- 

 tained by the Wilkes Exploring Expedition, probably at Rio Jan- 

 eiro. It has not since been recorded from any locality and its re- 

 discovery upon the coast of Yucatan is of much interest. A broad 

 distribution is thus indicated. 



Ocypoda arenaria. 



Ocypode arenarius Say, Journ. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. (1), Vol. I, p. 69. 

 Ocypoda rhombea Dana, U. S. Explor. Exped. Crust, p. 322, pi. XIX, fig. 8. 



A dried specimen collected upon the beach at Progreso. 

 Gelasimus speciosus. n. sp. PI. V, figs. tJ and 7. 



Four fiddler-crabs were collected at the Port of Silam which 

 apparently represent an undescribed species. 



They consist of three males and one female, and agree well in 

 their character. 



The species may be described as follows. 



Rostrum broad between the orbits. Male abdomen seven-jointed. 

 Carapace smooth, moderately elevated ; posterior edge, between the 

 posterior pair of cruripeds, three- fifths of the length of the anterior 

 edge ; antero-posterior diameter about two-thirds of the length of 

 the anterior edge. Margin of the meros of the larger cheliped 

 minutely denticulate, inner flat surface smooth, outer convex surface 

 with scattered transverse rows of minute tubercles. Carpus, inner 

 surface smooth, outer surface minutely tubercled. Manus long 

 and slender. In a specimen fifteen mm. wide between the antero- 

 lateral angels of the carapace, the manus is thirty-one mm. long to 

 the tip of the dactylus, and nine mm. wide across the broadest por- 

 tion of the palm. The length of the palm is rather less than two- 

 fifths, and its breadth rather less than three-tenths, of the entire 

 length of the hand. The fingers are long and slender, the pollex 

 is perfectly straight, and the dactylus is narrow at its base between 

 the superior and prehensile borders, rather longer than the pollex, 

 little arcuate and gently curved toward the tip. Palm minutely 

 granulated on the outer surface, on the inner surface with a row of 

 tubercles running upwards and backwards from the lower margin 

 to the carpal groove, and continued upwards and forwards from 

 the carpal groove towards the upper margin. Proximal portion of 




180 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



the palm behind this groove minutely granulated, distal portion 

 smooth. Pollex and dactylus smooth, with three rows of minute 

 tubercles upon their ])rehensile margins, tubercles of the outer and 

 inner rows very minute and closely approximated, those of the 

 middle row slightly larger, of irregular size and not closely approx- 

 imated, the five at the base of the dactylus being most prominent 

 and increasing in size from the base outwards ; one or more tuber- 

 cles nearly as prominent as these latter, in each of the fingers near 

 their middle. The inner row of the tubercles upon the pollex 

 continued upwards and slightly backwards upon the palm nearly to 

 Its upper margin. A slight ridge of tubercles in front of it at the 

 base of the dactylus. The ridge forming the upper border of the 

 carpal groove minutely denticulated and its anterior end not con- 

 tinued downwards and forwards upon the palm. 



This form is closely allied to Gelasimtts vocator as characterized 

 by Professor Kingsley.' It differs from it principally in the length 

 and shape of the larger cheliped. In Gelashr.us speciosxis, the larger 

 cheliped is about twice the length of that of Gelasimus vocator. The 

 fingers are longer and more slender, the dactylus is less arcuate, 

 the granulation upon the outer surface of the palm is finer and 

 the ridge forming the upper border of the carpal groove is not con- 

 tinued forwards and downwards upon the palm but is terminated 

 by a slight groove separating it from the upward and forward 

 extension of the tubercular ridge of the lower portion of the inner 

 surface of the palm. The sides of the carapace are also rounded 

 and less angular than in Gelasimus vocator. In the long and slender 

 character of the fingers it approximates Gelasimus stenodactylus, 

 but is distinguished from this species by the fact that the fourth, 

 fifth and sixth segments are distinct from each other and not anchy- 

 losed into one piece. 



The following species have been described since the monograph 

 of the genus by Professor Kingsley.'- 



G. Thomsoni, Kirk. Trans. New Zealand Inst. vol. XIII, p. 236, 1880, Well- 

 ington. New Zealand. 



G. Huttoni, Filhol, Mission de rileCampbell.Rec. Venus, III, pt. 2, ( Crustacea). 



G. Cimatodus, Rochebrune, Bull. Soc. Philomat., Paris; (7) t. VII, p. 171, 

 1882-1883, Senegambia. 



1 Proc. Acad. Nat. Scl., Phila., 1880, p. 147, pi. X, fig. 20. 



2 Loc ut. pp. 135-155. 




1891.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 181 



Pachygrapsus gracilis. 



De Saussure, Mem. Soc. Hi".t. Nat. Geneve, t. XIV, p. 443, pi. II, figs. 15 and 

 15a, c. 



A male collected at the Port of Silam. 



Sesarma cinerea. 



Grapsus cinereus, Bo'^c. Hist. Nat. Crust, vol. I, p. 2o8, pi. V, fig. 1 ; Say, 

 Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci., Phila., (1) vol. I, p 442; (non Grapsus cinereus, op. cit. 

 p. 99.) 



Two males and two females, collected at the Port of 8ilam. 



Hippa emerita. 



Cancer emeritus, L., Syst. Nat., ed. 12, p. lOoo, (pars). 



Hippa emerita, Mieis, Jour. Linn Soc., vol. XIV, p. 323, pi. V, fig. 9. 



Hippa nnaloga, Stimp^on, Jour. Bost. Soc. Nat. Hist., vol. VI, p. 485; Miers, 

 op. cit., p 324. pi. 5, fig. 10. 



Hippa tatpoidea, Veirili, Report of U. S. Commissioner of Fish and Fisheries, 

 1871 and 1872, p. 548, pi. II, fig. 5. 



Numerous specimens of this widely distributed species were 

 obtained at Progreso and the Port of Silam. It is u.«;ed by the 

 fishermen as bait, and large numbers are dug from the sand. 



Specimens of Hippa are in the collection of the Academy from 

 the eastern and western coasts of the Americas ; from California, 

 Guatemala, Panama, and Chili, and from Massachusetts, New Jer- 

 sey, Florida, Brazil and La Plata. A careful examination of the 

 abundant material leads me to the conclusion that the forms on the 

 Pacific and Atlantic sides of the continent represent but a single 

 species. The supposed distinctive characters enumerated byStimp-. 

 son and Miers, such as the shape, width and rugosity of the cara- 

 pace, the shape of the frontal lobes, of the antennal spines, of the 

 lobe of the thii'd joint of the outer maxillipeds, and of the last 

 abdominal segment, do not appear to be constant. Variation in 

 these characters exists in forms from both the Pacific and Atlan- 

 tic waters, and I have not found it possible to fix upon any charac- 

 ter by which to distinguish the forms from the two areas. All the 

 characters mentioned above are more or less variable, in the speci- 

 mens from either side. The carapace may be broader or narrower, 

 more or less rugose, the shape of the frontal lobes, and of the lobe 

 of the third joint of the outer maxillipeds, varies, and the antennal 

 spines vary in their length and may be directed slightly inwards 

 or outwards. The specimens from any one locality, however resem- 

 ble each other, and the tendency towards variation expres.ses 

 itself in local varieties. The specimens from the west coast appear 



) 




182 PROCEEDIXGS OK THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



to be usually more rugose than those from the east coast, but it is 

 by no means a constant character. 



No good typical figure of this species exists. That given by 

 Professor Yerrill is the best, but the carapace is usually narrower 

 at its anterior extremity than is shown in his figure. The figure 

 given by H. Milne-Edwards in the " Regne Animal"' under the 

 name of Hippa emerita, Fabr., is much narrower than any specimen 

 of this species which I have seen, and its general aspect excites a 

 suspicion that it represents a specimen of Hip]>a asiatica,' and not 

 of Hippa emerita. 

 Clibanarius formosus, n. .•^ji. Pluto V. figs. 1 and 2. 



Three hermit crabs were collected upon the beach at the Port of 

 Silam which apparently belong to an undescribed species of the 

 prolific genus Clibanarius. For them I propose the foregoing name. 

 The species may be characterized as follows : — 



Carapace with the anterior margin angular; possessing a small 

 acute median tooth ; about four-fifths as broad as long. Eye 

 peduncles slender, about as long as the anterior margin of the cara- 

 pace, their basal scales small with three or four teeth on the anterior 

 margin. External antennae with the last joint of the peduncle nearly 

 three times as long as the penultimate and with the basal scale of 

 moderate size ; its acute extremity reaching the distal edge of the 

 penultimate joint. Chelipeds small, of equal size; manus oblong- 

 oval, covered with numerous tubercles from which arise tufts of short 

 hairs; meros joint with a small black-tipped spine at its antero- 

 dorsal extremity. Cruripeds somewhat compressed ; tarsus of the 

 first and second pairs slightly longer than the penultimate joint ; 

 with several longitudinal series of small pits into which ai*e inserted 

 tufts of short hairs. Color in alcohol a dull orange, the cruripeds 

 with four broad longitudinal stripes of reddish-brown upon the 

 tarsal and penultimate joints ; the stripes situated upon the dorsal 

 lateral and ventral surfaces respectively. The preceding or fourth 

 joint with two broad stripes upon its outer surface, and one upon its 

 dorsal surface. 



Length of the carapace, 25 mm. 



In general characters this species resembles very closely the 

 common form of the southern coast of the Eastern United States, 



1 Crustaces, pi. 42, fig. 2. 



2 H. Milne-Edwards. Hist. Nat. Crust, ii, page 209. 




1891.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 183 



Clibanarius vittatus Bosc,' but differs from it in its smaller chelipeds, 

 and in its color pattern. The external antennte are also apparently 

 about one-fifth shorter than in C. vittatus. 



The following species of Clibanarhis may be added to those enu- 

 merated by Stimpson in his Prodromus.'^ Thegreater number have 

 been described since the publication of his list. They are arranged 

 in chronological order and without regard to the question of syn- 

 onymy. 



C. tuhularis L., .Sy^t, Nat., Ed. 12, 1767, p. lOoO; Risso, Crust, de Nice, p. 

 56, 181H. Mediteiranean. 



Bl C misanthrope Ri>-so, Hist, nat de I'Eur. mer., t. V, p. 40, 1826; Roux, Crust, 

 de la Medit. pi. 14, fig. 1. Mediterranean 



C <'r;/fl/«j Roux, Crust, de la Medit., 1830, pi. 43. Marseilles. 



C. strigimnnus White, Proc Zool. Soc. 1847, p. 122. Van Dieman's Land. 



C. Cuhensis de Saus-ure, Mem. Soc. Hist. Nat. Geneve, Vol. XIV, p. 45o, 

 18.57. Cuba. 



C. lurgidiis Stimp.'-on, Bost. Jour. Nat. Hist. 18o7, p. 484, pi. XXI, fig. 1. 

 Piigel Sound. 



C. rarfiifex Heller, Sitzungsb. Akad. Wissensch. Wien Vol. XLIV, pt. I, p. 

 259, 1861' Red Sea. 



C. signatus Heller, id, p. 2.52. Red Sea. 



C. Runxi Heller, Cru-t. siidi. Europa, Wien, 1863, p. 279. Giliralter. 



C. barhatus Heller, Reise der Oesterreichischen Fregalte Novara, Crust, p. 90, 

 Taf VII, fig. 5. 1888. Auckland. 



C. infraspinntiis Hilgendorf. Crustaceen von Ost Afrika, 1869, p. 97. 



C. cciyemiensis Micrs, Pioc. Zool. Soc. 1877, p. 657. Cayenne. 



C. carnescens Miers, id, p. 658. Cayenne. 



C. speciosiis Miers, loc. cit. Brazil. 



C. l.ordi Miers. loc. cit. Vancouver Island, B. C. 



C. Medilerranetcs Kossroann, Archiv. fiir Naturg., vol. XLIV, p. 257. 1878. 

 Meditcrrai ean. 



C. eiirysiernus Hilgendorf, M. B. Akad. Wissensch. Berlin, 1878, p. 822, pi. 

 Ill, figs. 9 and 10. Mozambique. 



C. P.tdarensis De Man, Journ. Linn. Soc. Vol. XXII, p. 242, PI. XVI, fig. 1. 

 King Lland, Mergui Archipelago 



C. arethusa De Man, id. p. 252, King Island, Mergui Archipelago. 



Alpheus heterochelis. 



Alpheus heterochelis. Say, Journ. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., (1) Vol. I, p. 243, 

 Alpheus lutarius, de Sau>sure, Mem. Soc. Hist. Nat. Geneve, t. XIV, p. 461, 

 PI. Ill, fig. 24. 



A male and female, obtained at the Port of Silam. 

 Palaemonella Yucatanica, n. sp. PI. V, fig. 8. 



A small female prawn with eggs attached was tlredged in twenty 

 feet of water off Progreso. It is allied to Pakemonella tenuipes of 

 Dana (18.52, p. 582, pi. .38, fig. 3) and appears to be an unde- 

 scribed species. I have named it Paltemonella Ynmtanica. It may 

 be characterized as follows. 



1 Histoire Naturelle des Cruslaces, Vol. I, p. 327, Vol. II, pi. XII. 



2 Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1858, p. 22;5. 




184 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



Rostrum straight, from its origin to its apex about as long as the 

 carapace, projects beyond the anterior edge of the carapace about 

 as far as two-thirds of the length of the basal scale of the outer 

 antenniB, arises about midway between the anterior and posterior 

 edges of the dorsal surface of the carapace, its origin marked by a 

 tooth, between this and the apical tooth of the rostrum there are six 

 other teeth equally spaced, the posterior one being directly above 

 the base of the outer antenna, two teeth on the under surface near 

 the apex. Peduncle of inner antenna? as long as the basal scale of 

 the outer antennse. Antennal tooth directly above the base of the 

 outer antenna ; hepatic tooth in a line drawn midway between the 

 first and second teeth of the rostrum, counting from its base, and a 

 little below the antennal tooth. Second pair of pereiopods with 

 meros about as long as from the posterior edge of the dorsal surface 

 of the carapace to the basal tooth of the rostrum ; its distal end not 

 spined, carpus about as long as the meros, its distal end with a very 

 minute spine, manus about as long as from the second tooth of the 

 rostrum to its apex ; fingers about half the length of the hand. 



It may be distinguished from Fakmionella tenuipes by the 

 shorter hand of the second ])air of pereiopods, not longer than from 

 the first tooth of the rostrum to its apex ; by the lack of spines 

 upon the distal end of the meros and the presence of only a rudi- 

 mentary spine upon the distal end of the carpus ; also by the posi- 

 tion of the first tooth of the rostrum, midway between the anterior 

 and posterior edges of the dorsal surface of the carapace, the 

 greater length of the peduncle of the inner antennse and the basal 

 scale of the first autennje, which are as long as the manus, and the 

 less anterior position of the hapatic tooth which is one-quarter to 

 one-third of the length of the carapace removed from the anterior 

 edge. 



STOMx\TOPODA. 



Squilla prasinolineata. 



Squilla prasinolineata Dana, Crust U. S. Explor. Exped. p. 630, I'l. XI. I, fig. 

 3. 



Squilla Dufresnii (Leach) Miers, Ann. Mag. Nat. Hist. (.5), Vol. V, p. 18, PI. 

 II, figs. 8 and 9. 



A small female squilla, about 2* inches in length, was collected 

 at the Port of Silam. It agrees well with Dana's description of 

 Squilla prasinolineata. It also resembles the figure of SquWa Du- 

 fresnii, given by Mr. Miers in his Monograph of the Squillidte, and 

 I am therefore led to regard this latter species as a synonym of 




1891.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 185 



Squilla prasinolijieatu. The squilla in the collection of the British 

 Museum, described and figured by Mr. Miers under the name of 

 Squilla Dufresnii, had had the name attached to it in manuscript 

 by Leach but had never been previously described. White in his 

 "List of the specimens of Crustacea in the collection of the British 

 Museum," 1847, p. 83, recorded Leach's manuscript name but gave 

 no description. Dana published his description of S. pr a sino I ineata 

 in 1852, and if as I have assumed, these two species are synony- 

 mous, then Dana's name must be used, as no description was 

 attached to the publication of Leach's name in 1847. The speci- 

 men in the collection of the British Museum which Mr. Miers 

 doubtfully refers to Squilla prasitiolineata, appears to me in all prob- 

 ability not to belong to it. He says that the median carinules of 

 the exposed thoracic and first to sixth post-abdominal segments are 

 obsolete, whereas Dana says only " in part obsolete." Dana says 

 that the lateral margins of the three exposed segments of the thorax 

 are entire, whereas the figure given by Mr. Miers shows that the two 

 posterior segments have a small anterior lobe. Mr. Miers also says 

 that the median longitudinal carina of the carapace is indistinctly 

 furcate only in its anterior portion, whereas Dana states that it is 

 not distinctly furcate near the front, but towards the posterior mar- 

 gin opens for a short distance. Mr. Miers also states that in his 

 specimen the terminal post-abdominal segment is proportionally 

 narrower and more elongated than in Squilla Dufresnii, but I fail 

 to see any difference in this respect between Mr. Miers' figure of this 

 latter species and Dana's figure of Squilla prasinoUneata. 



Mr. Miers' figure shows that the specimen he is describing lias a 

 well developed lateral process to the first exposed thoracic segment, 

 whereas the specimen collected in Yucatan only has a small insig- 

 nificant lateral process such as is shown in his figure of the thoracic 

 segments of Squilla Dufresnii. Dana's species was described from 

 Rio Janeiro. Squilla Dufresnii of Miers has no locality. The spe- 

 cies has not since been recorded from any new locality and the find- 

 ing of it on the coast of Yucatan is therefore very interesting. 



ISOPODA. 



Ligia Baudiana. PI. VI, fig. 2. 



Milne-Edwards, Hist. nat. crust., t. Ill, p. 155. 



Three small specimens of this species were collected at the Port of 

 Silam. It was originally described by Milne-Edwards from San 

 Juan d'Ulloa, the fortress of the harbor of Vera Cruz. Mr. E. J. 

 13 




186 rROCEEDINGS OF THK ACADEMY OF [1891. 



Miers (1877) has described specimens from Cayenne, and also states 

 that there are specimens of it in the British Museum from Rio 

 Janeiro. De Raussure has also recorded it from Cuba. The small 

 slender appendage of the inner ramus of the uropoda that ]Mr. Miers 

 speaks of I did not find in the Yucatan specimens, but as he suggests 

 thev may have been lost. The specimen figured has been enlarged 

 two diameters. 

 Cirolana mayana, n. sp. I'l. \l. figs. ;;-l(l. 



Three small specimens of a Cirolana were obtained at the l*ort of 

 Silam which do not correspond to any described species. They are 

 distinguished from all other species by the form of the antennae, and 

 rejiresent a new species which may be characterized as follows. 



Body narrow, about three and one-third times as long as broad, 

 with the sides nearly straight and ])arallel, smooth and polished with 

 few ])unctations. 



Head sub-hexagonal, about one and three quarter times as broad 

 lis long, antennulse rather longer than the breadth of the head, anten- 

 iise as long as from the interior margin of the head to the posterior 

 margin of the third thoracic segment ; sigmoid in shape, at its origin 

 bending backwards, then bending forwards and then backwards ; 

 segments of the flagellum forming the anterior concavity armed 

 anteriorly each with two bundles of numerous bristles one on the 

 upper and other on the lower edge, thus forming a brush shaped 

 structure. 



First thoracic segment nearly twice as long on the median line as 

 the second ; second, third and fourth segments equal ; fifth and sixth 

 segments rather longer and seventh segment half the length of the 

 sixth. The epimera of the fourth, fifth, sixth and seventh segments 

 are produced ])osteriorly into an angle, and those of the .second and 

 third segments are subquadrate, all have an impressed line running 

 antero-inferiorly. 



Spines and bristles upon the legs are not numerous. A small 

 portion of the first abdominal segment exposed. The lateral angles 

 •of the abdominal segments acute not rounded. The telson about 

 two-thirds as long as broad, minutely crenulate on its posterior 

 border, with very short spines inserted in the notches. 



The largest of the three specimens from which this description 

 has been drawn is about 9 mm. in length. In the smaller spec- 

 imens the series of bristles upon the antennse are not so well devel- 

 oped. _ . 




1891.] NATURAL SCIRNCES OF PHILADKLPIIIA. 187- 



The most characteristic features of this species are the brush-like 

 arrangemeut of bristles upon the aiitennse and the crenulate posterior 

 border of the telson. 



As no list of the species of this genus has been published since the 

 " Histoire Naturelle des Crustaces" I append the following list of ' 

 species described to the present day : — 



C. [EuryJice) pulchra Leach, Trans. Linn. SdC, vol. XL P- 370,1815; Milne- 

 Edwards. Hist. Nnt. Crust., t. Ill, p. 2^8. England. 



C. cranchis Leach, Diet. Sci. Nat. t. XII, P- o47 ; Bate and VVestwood, Brit. 

 Sess. Crust., p. 296, with figure. England. 



C (A'f /(?«>«) .S7i'^7/«j(7«// Leach, loc. cit.; M ilne- Edwards, Regne Animal, pi. 

 67, fig. 4. Sicily. 

 ' C hirtipes Milne-Edwards, Hist. Nat. Cru.st. t. Ill, p. 236, pi. 31, fig. 25, 1840; 

 Regne Animal, pi 67, fig. 6. Cape of Good Hope. 



C ^/^//o-a/'a Milne-Edwards, loc. cit. Mouth of Ganges. 



C. sciilpta Milne-Edwards, op. cit. p. 237. Malabar. 



C. Rossii White, List of the Specimens of Crustacea in the Collection of the 

 British Museum, 1847, p. 106. No description given. He refers to the Zoology 

 of the Erebus and Terror, t. 5, fig. 9, but I have been unable to find this figure 

 among tiie monographs of this expedition. Auckland Islands. 



C. borealis Lilljeborg, Ofversight, Kongl. \'etensk. Akad. Forhandl, arg. 8, 

 1851, No.l, p. 23. Norway. 



C. armata Dana, U. S. Explor. Exped. vol. XIII, pi. II, Crust., p. 771, y\. 51, 

 fig. 5, 1852. Rio Janeiro. 



C. latis/ylis Dana, op. cit., p. 772, pi. 51, fig. 6. Borneo. 



C. i^Eurydice) orientaiis Dana, op. cii., p. 773, PI. 51, fig. 7. Sooloo Sea. 



C. tntdtidigitaia. Aega mtiltidigitata Dana, op. cit., p. 768, PI. 51, fig. 3. 

 Borneo. 



C. polita Stimp-on, Marine Invert. Grand Menan. Smithsn. Conlrib., vol. VI, 

 p. 41, 1833. Grand Menan. ' 



C. concharum Stimpson, loc. cit. Charleston, S. C. 



C. Soles Hesse, Ann. Sci. Nat. (5) t. V, p. 259, 1866. Brittany. 



C. RaicE Hesse, op. cit. p. 260. Brittany. 



C. molvcE Hesse, op. cit. p. 261. Brittany. 



C. elongata Hesse, op. cit. p. 262. Brittany. 



C. merlangi Hesse, op. cit. p. 264. Brittany. 

 . C. spinipes Bate and Wc^twood, Brit. Sess. Crust, p. 299 with figure, 1867; 

 Harger, Bull. Mus. Comp. Zool. vol. XI, p. 91, pi. I, fig. '1, pi. II, fig. 1. Eng- 

 land and North America. 



C. rus;icatida Heller, Reise der Fregatte Novara, vol. II, pt. 3, p. 142, t. XII, 

 fig. 13,1868. St. Paul. 



C truncata Norman, Ann. Mag. Nat. Hist. (4), vol. II, p. 421, pi. 23, figs. 12, 

 1"3, 1868. Shetland Isles. 



C. Rossi Miers, Ann. Mag. Nat. Hist. (4) vol. XVII, p. 218, 1876; Cat. Crust. 

 New Zealand, p. lOit, pi. HI, fig. 3. New Zealand and Auckland Islands. 



• C. Arabica Kossmann, Reise in die Kii^iengebiete des Rothen Meeres, p. 114, 

 t. VIII, figs 7-12, t. IX, figs. 1-4. Red Sea. 



C. microphthalma Hoek. Niederland. Arch. Zool., suppl. I, Lief. 3, taf. II, figs. 

 18-17, 1882. Arctic Sea. 



• C. lata Ilaswell, Proc. Linn. Soc. New South Wales, vol. \T, p. 192, pi. IV,- 

 figLl, 1882. Port Stephens, N. S. W. 



C. lata var. integra Miers, Zool. Coll. H. M. S. ' Alert,' p. 304, 1884. Albany 

 Island. 



C. longicornis Studer, Abh. Akad. Berlin, 1882, II, p. 28, pi. H, ffg. 15. Table 

 Bay; South Africa. '■- '■ 




188 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



C. /avis Studer, Abh. Akad. Berlin, 1883, p. 21. pi. II, fig. 8. Queensland. 



C. impressa Harger, Bull. Mus. Comp. Zool. vol. XI, p. 93, pi. I, fig. 3, pi. II, 

 fig. 3, 1883-188-5. North Atlaniic. 



C. Schiodtei Miers, Zool. Coll. H. M. S. 'Alert,' p. 302, pi. XXXIII, fig. A, 

 1884. .■\rafura Sea, Torres Straits. 



C. tenuistylis Miers, op. cit. p. 303, pi. XXXIII, fig. li. Prince of Wales 

 Channel. 



C. Cookii Filhol, Mission de I'lle Campbell, Recueil de Memoires relatifs a 

 I'observation de I'assage de Venus sur le Soleil. Paris, p. 45o. Campbell I>land. 



Cymodocea caudata. 



Nasa caudala Say, Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. (1), vol. I, p. 482. 



A single specimen of this interesting species was collected in 

 twenty feet of water, off Progreso. The species does not appear to 

 have been recorded from any locality since its original description 

 by Say, from Y^'gg Harbor, New Jersey. On plate III (figs. 11- 

 14), will be found dorsal and lateral views, a view of the fourth leg 

 on the right side, and of the male sexual organs. The species has 

 been well described by Say. The male genital organs upon the 

 middle of the ventral surface of the seventh thoracic segment consist 

 of two spine-like appendages, with a broad groove upon the pos- 

 terior surface. 



This form does not come properly within the genus Nse.sa, either 

 as defined by Leach,' Milne-Edwards,' or Gerstsecker.' I have 

 placed it provisionally under Cymodocea, believing with Mr. Bed- 

 dard (1886, p. 145) that the genera Dynamene, Ncesa and CiUccea 

 probably represent variations of form of this type, sexual or other- 

 wise, of no primary importance. 



M. Hesse* has worked out the sexual dimorphism of several 

 related species inhabiting the coasts of France. The figure given on 

 pi. VI, (figs. 11-14) was drawn from a male specimen from the Ber- 

 muda Islands collected by the Academy's Expedition to that locality 

 in 1888 under the charge of Professor Angelo Heilprin. Six s{^c- 

 imens all males were collected. There appears to be a tendency in 

 the four spines within the sinus of the posterior abdominal segment 

 to become double. The three tubercles upon the first exposed ab- 

 dominal .segment may also be double. The largest specimen from 

 Bermuda is 10 mm. in length. 



Associated with these were six specimens of a related form, in 

 which the exterior uropoda are short and lamellate. I supposed at 



^Dictionnaire des Sciences Naturelles, t. XII, p. 341. 

 ^Histoire Naturelle des Crustaces, t. Ill, p. 216. 

 'Bronn's Thier-Reichs, Bd. V, p. 223. 

 * Ann. Sci. Nat. (.i), t. XVII, p. 1-35, Pis. 1-3. 




1891.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHrLADICLPIIIA. 189 



first that tliese wei'e the females of Cymodocea cauduta, but further 

 examination showed the presence of well developed male appendages 

 in one of the specimens, and I am therefore compelled to regard 

 them as a distinct species, which I have described as Cymodocea 

 Bermudensis (see p. 194). 



CIRRIPEDIA. 



Chelonobia testudinaria. 



Lg/'<u testudhiaria Linn. Syst. Nat. Ed. X., p. 668. 



Chelonobia ttstudinaria Darwin, Monograph of the Cirripedia, p. 39lJ, p!. 14, 

 figs. la-Id, fig. 5; pi. 15, fig. 1. 



A single specimen was collected at Progreso. Large numbers of 

 the Green turtle (^Chelonia my das) are taken at this locality, and 

 this species of barnacle is probably found upon them. 



XIPHOSURA. 



Limulus polyphemus. 



Monoctdns polyphtviiis Linn. Syst. Nat. Ed. X, p. 634. 



Polyphemus occiJentalis DeKay, Natural History of New York, Crust., p. 55, 

 pi. XL figs. 50,51. 



The King Crab is very abundant upon the beach at the Port 

 of Silam. It has already been recorded from Laguna de Terminos, 

 at the southern extremity of the Gulf of Mexico, by Professor H. 

 Milne-Edwards (1880 (1), foot note, p. 4). Professor Benjamin Sharp 

 informs me that it breeds in the harbor of Nantucket, and to Pro- 

 fessor Kingsley I am indebted for the information that it breeds in 

 great abundance at Cape Ann, Massachusetts. The species is thus 

 seen to have a very extensive north and south range. 



VERA CRUZ. 



DECAPODA. 



Mithraculus sculptus. 



Mata sculpla Lamarck. Hist. Nat. Anim. sans Vert., t. V, p. 242. 

 Mithraculus sculptus A. Mihie-Edwards, Crust. Miss. Sci. Max., p. 105, pi. 

 XX, fig. 2. 



Four specimens of this species were collected at Vera Cruz. 

 Three of them in which the carapace is less than 10 mm. broad, 

 have no teeth either upon the pollex or dactylus. The fourth spec- 

 imen, in which the carapace is about 20 mm. broad, has teeth of 

 the ordinary type upon both fingers. 




190 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



Liomera longimana. 



A. Milne-Edwards, Nouv. Arch. Mus. (1) t. I, p. 221, pi. XII, figs. 7, 7a, 7b. . 

 A young .specimen apparently of this species was found in a cav- 

 ity of a coral, Madrepora pabnata, collected at Vera Cruz. 



Neptunus Sayi. 



Liipa Sayi Gibbes, Proc. Amer. Assoc. 1850, p. 178. 

 Neptunus Sayi A. Milne- Edwards, Arch. Mus. (1) t. X, p. 317. 



There are three young specimens of this species in the collection 

 of the Academy labelled Vera Cruz. One of them was donated by 

 Dr. T. B. Wilson. The other two do not bear the name of the 

 donor. 



Neptunus cribmrius. 



Portunus cribrarins Latnarck, Hist. Anim. sans, Vert. t. V, p. 259. 



Lupa cribraria Milne-Edwards, Hist. Nat. Crust, t. 1, p. 452, pi. XVII, fig. 1. 



A female was obtained at Vera Cruz. 



Ocypoda arenaria. 

 Loc . cit. 



Several specimens were collected at Vera Cruz. 



Grapsus grapsus. 



Cancer graps us L., Sysl. Nat., ed. X, pi. 30. 



Grapsus pictus A. Milne-Edwards, Crust. Regne Animal, Cuvier, pi. 22. 



A male was obtained at Vera Cruz. 



I have used the specific name given to this species by Linnieus, 

 in 1758, and not the designation of macxilatu6 applied to it by 

 Catesby' in 1748. Most authors have used Catesby's name, but as 

 this antedates the tenth edition of the Systema Naturse, it should 

 be abandoned in favor of Linnseus' name. Lamarck^ in 1801 

 erected a new genus for the reception of this species with an allied 

 form, and gave to the new genus, the name of the Liunean species. 

 This he renamed Grapsus pictus. I am of opinion, however, that 

 Linnaeus' specific name should not be abandoned, on account of its 

 use generically, and I therefore retain it.' 



Penseus Brasiliensis, var. Az/ecus, n. var. 



A number of shrimps were obtained at Vera Cruz, which belong 

 to this species, but diflfer from the typical form in the very long 

 flagellum of the outer antennae. The flagellum is from seven to ten 



1 Nat. Hist, of the Carolinas, vol. II, p. 3t>, pi. XXXVI, fig. 1. 



2 Systeme des Aniniaux sans Vertebres, p. 150. 



^ Report of Committee on Zoological Nomenclature, Proc. Amer. Assoc. 

 Adv. Sci. 1877, pp. 50, 51, LXVIII. 




1891.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 191 



times the length of the carapace, from its anterior to its posterior 

 edge, not including the rostrum. On account of the remarkable 

 length of the flagella they appear to me to constitute a new variety 

 which I have named Aztecus. 



The species itself closely resembles Penceus canaliculatus of Oli- 

 ver (see Spence Bate. 1888, p. 243, pi. XXXII) which inhabits the 

 Indo-Pacific region. It may be distinguished from it by the pres- 

 ence of a spine upon the second and third joints of the first pairs of 

 pereiopods instead of one upon the second joint only, and by the 

 presence of two teeth instead of one upon the ventral surface of the 

 rostrum. 



I have examined Latreille's original descrij)tion,' but have iden- 

 tified the specimens collected by means of Milne-Edwards' chai-acter- 

 ization of the species in the Histoire Xaturelle des Crustaces, t. II, 

 p. 414. Mr. Spence Bate' has also discussed this species. 



WEST COAST OF FLORIDA. 

 DECAPODA. 



Libinia dubia. 

 Loc. cit. 



Five specimens collected in Anclote Bay. Two of these are voung 

 individuals, in which the median row of spines of the carapace and. 

 the rostral spines are relatively much more developed than in the 

 adult. 



Fanopeas Texanus. 



Pattopeus Texamis Stimpson, Ann Lye. Nat. Hist., New York; vol. VII, p. 55.. 

 A. Milne-Eciwards, Crust. Miss. Sci. Mex., p. 313, pi. LVIII, fig. 4. 



Numerous specimens collected at Point Pinellas, Tampa Bay, 

 and in Anclote Bay. 



They differ slightly from the figure given by M. Milne-Edwards^ 

 The postero-lateral border of the carapace is rather shorter, and the 

 . antero-lateral spines are less closely approximated. 

 Fanopeus Herbstii. 



Loc. cil. 



. A single specimen, dredged in 9-12 feet of water, oflf ^Manatee 

 River, Tampa Bay, probably belongs to this species. It differs, 

 however, from the typical form in the broad leaf-shaped character 

 of the antero-lateral teeth of the carapace. (See PI. V, fig. 7.) 



1 Nouv. Diet. Hist. Nat. t. XXV, p. 175. 

 2Ann. Mag. Nat. Hist. (5) vol. VHI, p. 17-5. 




192 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



Meuippe mercenaria. 



Loc. cit. 



Specimens were obtained at Anclote Bay, Sarasota Bay and in 

 9-12 feet of water off the Manatee River, Tampa Bay. 



Achelous spinimanus. 



Poriuuus spinimanus Latreille, Encycl. Meth.,t. X, p. 188, 



Achelous spinimanus A. Milne-Edwards, Arch. Mus., t. X, p. 341, pi. XXXIl. 



Specimens were obtained off the Manatee River, Tampa Bay, at 

 Sarasota Bay and at Boca Koga, Little Gasparilla Inlet. 



They exhibit a considerable amount of variation, specimens agree- 

 ing in all other characters, differ in the shape of the abdominal seg- 

 ments, the number of spines upon the anterior border of the arm or 

 the .<ize of the posterior antero-lateral spine. 



Gelasimus pugilator. 



Ocypoda pugilatur Bosc, Hi^t. Nat. Crust., t. I, p. 2o(>. 



Gelasimus pugilatcr H. Milne-Edwards, Ann. Sci. Nat. (3), t. XVIII, p. 149, 

 pi. IV, fig. 14. 



Gilisimus vocans Dekay, Nal. Hist, of New York, Crust., p. 14, pi. VI, fig. 9. 



Numerous specimens obtained at Perico Island, Sarasota Bay. 



Calappa flammea. 



Catiicr flammca Herbst, Krabben und Krebse, vol. II, \>. 161, pi. XI., fig. 2. 

 Caloppa flammea Miers, '• Challenger" Biachyura,, p. 284. pi. XXIII, fig. 1. 



A male was collected in Little Gasparilla Inlet. 



The specimen resembles Herbst's figure, but lacks the clearly 

 marked reticulations of the dorsal surface of the carapace, which is 

 very faintly mottled with reddish brown. 



Fersephoaa punctata. 



Camer punctatus L., Syst. Nat. ed. XII, p. 1045. 



Per.'ep/iona punctata Miers, ''Challenger" Brachyura, p. 312, pi. XXV, fig. 5. 



Two males were obtained, one from 9-12 feet of water off Manatee 

 River, and the other in Sarasota Bay. 



Polyonyx macrocheles. 



Porcellaiia macrocheles Gibbes, Proc. Am. Assoc, vol. Ill, p. 191 ; Proc. Elliott 

 Soc. Chaileston, S. C. vol. I, p. 6, pi. I, fig. 5. 



Polvonvx macrocheles Faxon, Bull. Mus. Comp. Zoo)., vol. V, p. 256, pi. HI, 

 fig. 11. 



A male and female were obtained in 9-12 ft. of water off Manatee 

 River. 



As Professor Kingsley (1879, p. 408) has already pointed out, 

 the carapace is much broader in the female than in the male. 




1891.] NATURAL SCIENCKS OF PHILADELPHIA. 193 



Clibenarius vittatus. 



Pagiinis vittatits Bosc, Hist. Nat. Crust, t, I, p. 327; t. II, pi. VI, fig. ]. 



A number of specimens obtained at Little Gasparilla Inlet. 



This species has only been figured by Bosc. and as his represen- 

 tation of it is very unsatisfactory, I have refigured it. (PI. V, figs. 

 8 and 4). The outline drawing represents one of the medium- 

 sized specimens collected at Little Gasparilla Inlet. The right 

 anterior cruriped has been given in detail to show the color 

 markings and the tufts of hair. In alcohol, the carapace is yellow- 

 ish with a reddish tinge ; the dorsal surface of the chelipeds red- 

 dish-brown mottled with yellow, ventral surface yellowish ; the tar- 

 sal and penultimate joints of the cruripeds reddish-brown with 

 eight narrow longitudinal yellow bauds. Two of these bands are 

 upon the dorsal surface, two upon the ventral and two upon each 

 of the lateral surfaces. The two dorsal bands are closer together 

 than the other.s. The ventral surface of the cruripeds is much 

 lighter than the dorsal and lateral surfaces. 

 Eupagurus poUicaris. 



Fagurus polHcaris Say, Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. (i), vol. I, p 162. 

 De Kay. Natural History of New 'S'ork, Crust., p. 19, pi. VIII, fig. 21. 



Three specimens, one male and two females, collected in 9-12 feet 

 of water, off Manatee River, in Tampa Bay. 



Eupagurus annulipes. 



Stimiison, Ann. Lye. Nat. Hist. New York, vol. VII, p. 243. 



A single specimen of this small species collected at Anclote Bay. 

 The species so far as I am aware has not been recorded since it 

 was first described by Dr. Stimpson, from Beaufort Harbor, N. C. 



Hippolyte Wurdemanni. 



Gilibes, Proc. Amer. Assoc, vol. 3, 1850, p. 197. 



Three specimens obtained at Point Pinellas, Tamj)a Bay. 



This species has not been recorded since it was originally described 

 by Professor Gibbes from Key West and Charleston Harbor. Pro- 

 fessor Gibbes' description is very good. The carpus of the second 

 pereiopod is multiarticulate ; synaphipods and psalistomata are 

 absent ; the flagellum of external antenna is about four times as long 

 as the carapace, measuring from the tip of the rostrum to its pos- 

 terior edge ; the longer flagellum of the internal antenna is about 

 three and a half times as long as the carapace, and the shorter 

 flatrellum is about three times as long. 




194 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



As the species has not yet been figured, I have figured one of the 



specimens collected. (PI. VI, fig. 1). It is enlarged two diameters. 



Palaemontes exilipes. 



Stimp-ioii, Ann. Lye. Nat. Hist. New York, vol. X, p. 130. 

 S. I. Smith, U. S. Comm. Fish and Fisheries, Rapt, of Commissioner for 1872 

 and 1873, p. 640, pi. I, fig. 1. 



Specimens of this fresh water species were collected in the 



Caloosahatchie River, in the canal connecting Lake Hik])ochee and 



Lake Okeechobee, and in Lake Okeechobee. 



Fenseus Brasiliensis. 



Latreille, Nouv. Diet. Hist. Nat., t. XXV, p. 25G. 

 Spence Bate, Ann. Mag. Nat. Hist. (5) vol. VHI, p. 175. 



Specimens collected at Anclote Bay ; Sand Key, Clearwater Bay 



and at Boca Noga, Little Gasparilla Inlet. 



BERMUDA. 

 Cymodocea Bermudensis, n. (^p. PI. VF, figs. 15, 10. 



Six small specimens were found associated with specimens of 

 Cymodocea caudata, from the Bermuda Islands, which appears to be 

 a new species. 



This species may be characterized as follow.s. Head short, about 

 twice as broad as long. First segment of the thorax longer thaa 

 any of the following, about as long as the head, three times as 

 broad as long ; the remaining thoracic segments about equal in 

 length, half as long as the first thoracic segment. 



Two abdominal segments exposed to view ; first segment about 

 twice as long as the preceding thoracic segment, its posterior border 

 nearly straight; terminal segment large, about one third of the 

 length of the whole body ; subtriangular in shape; posterior angle 

 truncated; elevated in the center and descending steeply to its lat- 

 eral and posterior margins ; three tubercles arranged transversely 

 upon its elevated portion. 



Uropoda, short, lamellate, inner and posterior borders straight, 

 outer border slightly convex. 



Anterior and ])osterior antennje of about equal length. Peduncles 

 of anterior antennae three-jointed, with first joint stout compressed, 

 second very short compressed, the third long and slender; flagellura 

 multiarticulate. Peduncle of second autennjie, four-jointed, first 

 joint slender, very short, second joint longer, third and fourth 

 joints longer, of about equal length, slender, flagellum multiartic- 

 ulate. Legs terminating in a well-developed claw with a smaller 




1891.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF I'HIEADELPIIIA. 195 



claw at its base, similar to that of Cymodocea eaxidata. (See PI. VI, 

 figs. 15, 16.) 



Tlfe longest specimen 6 mm. in length. 



Geographical Distribution. 



In the chronological list at the end of this paper will be found the 

 titles of all important monographs dealing with the higher crusta- 

 cean fauna of the West Indian region. As this list represents a 

 summary of our knowledge of the region, I will merely mention 

 here briefly the most important contributions to the subject. 



In 1817, Thomas Say, who might aptly be termed the Father of 

 American Invertebrate Zoology, published in the first volume of 

 the Journal of this Academy a series of papers entitled, "An Ac- 

 count of the Crustacea of the United States." These papers con- 

 tain descriptions of a number of new species principally from the 

 Southern coasts of the Eastern United States. The species are 

 nearly all characteristic forms of Florida or the West Indies, and 

 his papers may therefore be regarded as the first contril)ution to our 

 knowledge of this fsiuna. In 1850, Gibbes, in a paper on the car- 

 cinological collections of the United States, described a number of 

 new forms, the greater part of them being from the same region as 

 those described by Mr. Say. In 1852, Dana published his his- 

 torical monograph on the Crustacea collected by the United States 

 Exploring Expedition, in which the species collected at Rio Janeiro 

 are enumerated, and many new ones from that locality described. 

 In 1858, H. DE Saussure described a number of new species from 

 the coast of Mexico and the West Indies, and in the following year 

 Dr. Stimpson published the first of three papers, continued in the 

 years 1860 and 1871, in the Annals of the Lyceum of Natural His- 

 tory, of Xew York, in which he described many new species from 

 the region opened up by Say and Gibbes. M. A. Schram, in 1876, 

 published a manuscript by Dr. Isis Desbonne, enumerating the 

 Crustacea of Guadeloupe, and describing some new species. In the 

 following year Heller, in his report upon the Crustacea, collected 

 by the Novara Expedition, gave a list of species obtained at Rio 

 Janeiro, with descriptions of some new species. In 1869, Professor 

 S. I. Smith published a notice of the Crustacea collected by Pro- 

 fessor C. F. Hartt, on the Coast of Brazil, 1867, which contains a 

 list of species collected and descriptions of new species, and also a 

 list of all the species of Crustacea known upon that coast at that 




196 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



date. In the same year Dr. Ed. V. Martens published a descrip- 

 tion of some fresh and brackish water Crustacea from Southern Bra- 

 zil, collected by Dr. Reintz-Hensel. In 1870, Dr. Stimpson pub- 

 lished his preliminary report upon the Crustacea, dredged in the 

 Straits of Florida by L. F. de Pourtales, of the United States Coast 

 Survey. In 1872 appeared a paper by Dr. Ed. V. Martens on 

 the Crustacea of Cuba. Five years later, Mr. E. J. Miers described 

 several new species from Cayenne, and in 1879, Professor Kings- 

 EEY published his list of Decapod Crustacea, found at Fort Macon, 

 N. C. In the same year he also published a paper upon a collec- 

 tion of Crustacea from Virginia, North Carolina and Florida. 



During the years 1873-1880 appeared the report of Prof. A 

 Milne-Edwakds upon the Crustacea collected by the Mi.ssion 

 Scientifique au Mexique. Professor Milne-Edwards originally in- 

 tended to make his report a complete monograph of the Carcino- 

 logical fauna of both sides of Central America, but owing to the 

 destruction of nearly the entire collection of the Commission during 

 the bombardent of Paris, he was unable to do this. The report 

 although imperfect as a complete monograph is an excellent work. 

 The greater part of the Brachyurous Crustacea of these waters are 

 described, and illustrated by very fine figures. 



In 1881, Prof. Milne-Edwards published his Preliminary report 

 upon the decapod Crustacea dredged in the Gulf of Mexico and the 

 Caribbean Sea by the United States coast survey steamer " Blake " 

 during the years 1877, 1878 and 1879. In this report many interest- 

 ing deep sea types are described. 



In 1887, Prof. C. L. Herrick published an extensive paper 

 entitled " Contributions to the Fauna of the Gulf of Mexico and the 

 South." The subject of the paper is a collection of Crustacea made 

 in Mobile Bay. A number of new and little known species are 

 described and figured. The paper on account of its comprehensive- 

 ness and numerous illustrations, should be a very vaJuable addi- 

 tion to the literature of the subject. I am sorry to state, however, 

 that although I have had occasion to make very little use of it, my 

 slight acquaintance with it, has not left a very favorable impression 

 upon my mind. In the figure of Paloemonetes vulgaris, PI. V, 

 fig. 7, there has been drawn one thoracic leg too many, six legs 

 instead of five, and in the figure of Peneeus setiferus on the same 

 plate, fig. 0, there are three instead of two teeth upon the frontal 

 and hepatic regions. In the latter case the third tooth that has 




1891.] NATURAL SCIF:NCES OF PHILAI)P:I.I'HIA. 197 



been drawu does not exist in any member of the genus. As the 

 species figured is a common one, there can be no doubt that the 

 figure is intended to represent this species, but if it were correct, 

 the existence of a third spine would probably be sufficient to make 

 a new genus of it. 



In addition to the papers that have been enumerated, should be 

 mentioned the several monographs on the different grou])S of Crus- 

 tacea collected by the Challenger Expedition, including species from 

 the Bermudas, St. Thomas, and Bahia. 



It will be apparent from the preceding resume of the literature 

 of the Crustacea of the West Indian region that although much is 

 known of the subject, our knowledge is as yet by no means complete 

 Much remains to be learned of the Crustacean fauna of the Eastern 

 coast of South America. Several collections of Crustacea have 

 been made at Rio Janeiro, but we do not know with certainty how 

 far south of this point the Caribbean Crustacea extend. 



North of Rio Janeiro Professor Hartt collected at the Abrolhos 

 Reefs, and at a few points on the East coast of Brazil. Of the 

 fauna of the Northeastern coast of Brazil, and of the Northern 

 coast of South America and the Eastern coast of Central America 

 we have only very scattered knowledge. Even of the Gulf of 

 Mexico itself our information is very limited. Northward from 

 Florida to Cape Hatteras the coast is much better known. From 

 Cape Hatteras to New Jersey is still nearly a terra incognita. 

 The only contribution to our knowledge of this latter portion of the 

 coast is a scanty list of Crustacea collected by Mr. P. R. Uhler in 

 Chesapeake Bay. 



Of the Crustacea of the West Indian Islands much remains to be 

 known. We have a fair knowledge of the fauna of Cuba and 

 Guadeloupe, and a very limited knowledge of that of Hayti, St. 

 Thomas and St. Martin. The Crustacea of the Bermuda Islands 

 are known from the Academy's Expedition to these Islands in 1888. 

 Dr. Isis Desbonne has described many species peculiar to Guade- 

 loupe and we may reasonably look for species peculiar to some of 

 the other unstudied West Indian Islands. 



The lists of Crustacea collected in various regions are usually of 

 much less value than they might be, from the fact that they do not 

 give any particulars in regard to the specimens collected. It should 

 always be stated in such lists whether the specimens occur in abun- 

 dance or are rare. In some cases also, young specimens are found 




198 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



during the summei- which have developed from hirvse. brought to 

 these shores by warm curreuts, and which perish during the winter. 

 Such species certainly cannot be regarded as normally inhabiting 

 these shores. This occurs on the coasts of Southern New Jersey, 

 where during the summer numerous specimens of Ocypoda arenaria 

 both in the IMegalops stage and in the very young adult stage can 

 be collected on the beach. No large adult specimens are found. 

 iV'e/j^ajnis fri^rar/Mi- is also occasionally obtained on the coast, but 

 this species on account of the rarity of its occurrence, can only be 

 regarded as an occasional visitor and not as an inhabitant. It is 

 probably brought north by the warm currents from the south. Mr. 

 S. I. Smith has treated of this subject, and records the occurrence 

 of young s])ecimens of five southern species of Decapods upon the 

 shores of Long Island and of Vineyard. Sound. Besides these he 

 records two southern species brought in on whalers, and three pela- 

 gic species characteristic of the Gulf stream, which have been 

 stranded upon the Northern coasts. These facts should therefore 

 be carefully considered and when an area of distribution is defined 

 for a given species it should only include those localities in which 

 the species is constantly found in greater or less abundance. Mr. 

 S. I. Smith, in the Crustacea of the Atlantic Coast of North Amer- 

 ica north of Cape Cod, has exemplified this method and his paper 

 is consequently of great value. Besides entering carefully into the 

 range of the species, he has also given the dei)th of .water which 

 they inhabit. 



The following list represents the species collected by the Acad- 

 emy's Expedition to iNIexico, together with their general distri- 

 bution : — 



YUCATAN. 



Fcricera bispinosa. West Indies, V'ucatan, Bahia. 



Micropkiys bitornutus. Florida to Desterro, West Indies. 



Libima diibia. Cape'Cod to Yucatan, We^t Indies, West Coast of Africa. 



Fanopeus Herbstii. Carolina, Florida, Yucatan, Aspinwail, Bahamas. 



Piho/mus aculeatus. Fort Macon to Yucatan, Guadeloupe. 



Meitippe nicrctnaria. Beaufort, N. C, to Florida, Yucatan, Baliamas. 



Eiicraiopsis crassimamis. Rio Jane ro, Yucaian. 



Otypoda arenaria. Fort Macon to Rio Janeiro, West Indies. 



Gelasimus speciosus. Yucatan. 



Pachygrapms gracilis. Florida, Yucatan, West Indies. 



Sesarnia cinerea. Virginia to Florida, Yucatan; We--t Indies. 



Hippa emeitta. Massachusetts to LaPlata, We-t Indies, California to Chili. 



Clibanamts formosus. Yucatan. ' 




1891.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 199 



Alphius heleiochelis. Fort Macon to Abrolhos Reefs (Brazil), ^Ve'^t Indies, 

 Panama and Nicaragua. 



Palamonella Yucatanica. Yucatan. 



Squill a prasinoliiu-ata. Yucatan, Rio Janeiro. 



Ligia Baudjniana. Yucatan, Yera Cruz, Cuba, Cayenne, Rio Janeiro. 



Cirolana Mayana. Yucatan. 



Cymodocea cmidata. Egg Harbor, New Jersey (visitor ?), Bermuda, Yucatan. 



Clielonobia testudinar'ia. Circumtropical. 



Liiiiulus polyphemtts. Massachusetts to Gulf of Mexico. 



VERA CRUZ. 



Mithraculus sculptus. West Indies, Vera Cruz, Fernando Noronha. 

 Neptiifius Sayi. Gulf Stream. 



JVeptunus cnbraritis. Ft. Macon to Vera Cruz, Guadeloupe, Rio Janeiro. 

 Liomera longimana. West Indies, Vera Cruz. 

 Ocvpoda arenaria. Fort Macon to Rio Janeiro, West Indies. 

 GrapsKS grapsus, Circumtropical. West Indies to Pernambuco. 

 Penaus Biasiheiisis, var. Aztecus. Vera Cruz. 



PeiKBus Brasiliensis. New Jersey to Bahia, West Indies, Nicaragua, Whydah 

 ■(W. .-Africa J. 



FLORIDA. 



Libinia duhia. Cape Cod to Yucatan, West Indies, West Coast of Africa. 



Panopeiis Tcxanus. Cape Cod to Florida and Texas. 



Panopeus Hci bstii. Carolina, Florida, Aspinwall, Bahamas. 



Metiippe mercenaria. Beaufort, North Carolina to Florida, Yucatan, Cuba, 

 Bahamas. 



Achelous spinimanus. South Carolina, Florida, Brazil, Martinique, Chili. 



Gelasiinus pugilator . Cape Cod to Florida. 



Calappa flaminea. North Carolina to Florida, West Indies. 



Persephotta punctata. Beaufort, North Carolina, Florida, Guadeloupe, Cuba. 



Polyonyx macrochelts. Beaufort, North Carolina to Florida. 



Clibanariusvittatus. Florida, We^t Indies, Brazil. 



Eupagurus pollicaris. Massachusetts to Florida. 



Eupagurus atinulipes. Beaufort, N. C, Florida. 



Hippolyte Wurdemanni. Charleston Hariior, Key West, Fla. 



PnlcBinvnetesexilipes. (Fresh Water.) Florida, South Carolina, Lake Erie, 

 Lake Michigan. 



PeiicBus Brasiliensis. New Jersey to Bahia, West Indies, Nicaragua, Whydah 

 (W. Africa). 



The comparative i-ange.s of these species may be graphically illus- 

 trated by the following table. The horizontal line opposite the 

 name of a species represents its longitudinal distribution along the 

 Eastern coast of the American continent. Where species have 

 been recorded as occurring at distant points, such as Yucatan and 

 Rio Janeiro, these localities have been connected by a line passing 

 through the intervening region.s, although the species may not as yet 

 have been recorded from these regions, as it is probable in all the 

 ■cases in which this has been done that the species occur there. 




200 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1891. 



o ^ 



YrCATAN. 



Pericera trispinosa 

 Microphrys bicornutus 

 Libinia dubia 

 Panopcus Herbstii 

 Pilumnus aculeatus 

 Menippe mercenaria 

 Euciatop-is crassimanus 

 Ocyp'ida arenaria 

 Gelasimiis speciosus 

 Pachygrap^us gracilis 

 Sesarma ciiierea 

 Hippa emerita 

 Clibanarius formosus 

 Alpheus heterocheiis 

 Palnemonella Yucatanica 

 Squilla prasinolineata 

 Ligia Baudiniana 

 Ciiolana Mayana 

 Cymodocea caudata 

 Chelinohia tesiudinaria 

 Limulus polyphemus 



Vera Cruz. 



Mithraculus sculptus 

 Neptumis Sayi 

 Neptunus cnbrarius 

 Lioniera longimana 

 Ocypoda arenaria 

 Grapsus grapsus 

 Penaus Brasiliensis 



Florida. 



Libinia dubia 

 Panopeus Texanus 

 Panopeus Herbstii 

 Menippe mercenaria 

 Achelou^ spinimanus 

 Gelasimus pugilator 

 Calappa fiammea 

 Persephone punctata 

 Polyonyx macrocheles 

 Clibanarius vittatus 

 Eupagurus pollicaris 

 Eupagurus annulipes 

 Hippolyte Wurdenianni 

 Palremonetes exilipes 

 Penaeus Brasiliensis 



CJ U 



•c ^y <^ 



o « y 



i^ ^ > 



ci Q 



Circum tropical. 



Gulf Stream. 



Circumtropical . 



Fresh Water. 




1891.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 201 



The preceding table suggests the division of the Caribbean pro- 

 vince into two sub-provinces, which may be termed respectively 

 the Carribbean and the Brazilian. The Caribbean, extending 

 southwards from Cape Hatteras to Central America, including the 

 West Indian Islands, and the Brazilian extending from Central 

 America to Rio Janeiro. A consideration of what is known 

 of the distribution of the Crustacea of the entire Cai'ibbean province 

 has also led me to adopt this view. By far the greater number of 

 the species enumerated by Rathbun from Brazil are peculiar to 

 that coast and the same can be said of the species enumerated 

 by Kingsley from the Carolinian and Floridian shores. The fauna 

 of the latter region is undoubtedly very closely related to the West 

 Indian proper, of which indeed it may be regarded as a part. 



Professor Dana, as early as the year 1852, in his monograph of 

 the Crustacea collected by the United States Exploring Expedition, 

 discussed the question of the geographical distribution of the Crust- 

 acea in a way that has laid all future marine zoologists under a debt 

 of gratitude to him. He showed very clearly the important 

 part that the temperature of the water plays in the distribution of 

 marine littoral species. The chart of the world prepared by him, 

 showing the isocrymes or lines of greatest cold, affords the key to 

 many a perplexing problem. He divides the region which I have 

 termed the Caribbean into four Provinces, the Caribbean, including 

 the West Indian Islands, the Eastern coast of Central America and 

 the Northern and Northeastern coast of South America, from the 

 region of the Mississippi River to beyond Bahia ; the Floridian 

 Province, including Key West and the Southern extremity of 

 Florida, together with the Bermudas; the Brazilian Province, in- 

 cluding Rio Janeiro, and extending north nearly to Bahia ; and the 

 Carolinian Province, including Northern Florida, Georgia and the 

 Carolinas as far north as Cape Hatteras. It appears to me, how- 

 ever, that these four provinces should be merged into a single pro- 

 vince, the Caribbean, which may be subdivided into two sub- 

 provinces, the Caribbean and Brazilian, as outlined above. It 

 is, I think, impossible to separate the Carolinian, Floridian and 

 Caribbean provinces of Dana. Our knowledge of the species in- 

 habiting these regions has increased greatly since the publication of 

 his work, and the range of the species is known to be greater than 

 he supposed. The extension of the Floridian fauna northwards to 

 Cape Hatteras is probably owing to the fact that the shores of Flor- 



14 




202 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



ida, Georgia and the Carolinas, as far north as Cape Hatteras are 

 bathed by an overflow of the warm waters of the Gulf Stream. The 

 Arctic Labrador current coming from the North, along the Eastern 

 coast of the United States, according to Commander Bartlett ^ does 

 not extend south of Cape Hatteras, but at that point goes under the 

 Gulf Stream eastwards. North of Cape Hatteras the Gulf Stream 

 is deflected northeastwards, and is more or less separated from 

 the coast by the cold Labrador current. 



On the Northern coast of Yucatan, as evideueed by the collection 

 of the Mexican Expedition, the Brazilian and Caribbean sub- 

 provinces to a certain extent overlap. 



There appears therefore to be two centres of distribution in the 

 Caribbean region, a Floridian and a Brazilian, giving rise to the two 

 provinces which overlap in Central America. 



Professor Dana in his classical work enumerates eight species 

 common to the warm waters of both sides of the American Continent, 

 and Professor Kingsley in his paper upon the genus Alpheus, men- 

 tions 15 additional species. Professor Dana also pointed out the fact 

 that the genera of the east and west coasts are largely characteristic 

 of the region embraced by these two coasts, and that a large propor- 

 tion are common to both shores. He distinguished the region re- 

 presented by these coasts as the Occidental Kingdom. He was un- 

 able, however, to account for this relationship of the eastern and 

 western coasts, as at that time there did not appear to be any 

 evidence of the recent submersion of any part of Central America. 

 It is now well known, however, that during the Tertiary period a 

 connection must have existed between the waters of the Atlantic and 

 the Pacific. This connection will explain the existence of species 

 common to both shores. The Cretaceous rocks of Mexico, and the 

 Tertiary deposits of Yucatan discovered by the Academy's Mexican 

 Expedition" together with the recognized Cretaceous and Tertiary 

 deposits of northern South America,* further point to a time when 

 there was a free intermingling of the waters of the Atlantic and of 

 the Pacific. The close relationship of the two faunas, as evidenced 

 by the large proportion of genera common to the eastern and 



1 Report of the U. S. Coast and Geodetic Survey, 1882, p. 37. 



* See Professor Heilprin's report in the Proceedings of the Academy for 1890, 

 pp. 445-469. 



' See Dr. Hermann Karsten " Geologic de I'ancienne Colombie, Bolivarienne, 

 Venezuela, Nouvelle-Grenade at Ecuador" Berlin, 1886. 




1891.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 203 



western shores of the continent, and their general similarity, is thus 

 explained. The separation of North and South America also prob- 

 ably explains the well marked division of the continental portion of 

 the "West Indian region into a Brazilian and Caribbean sub-province. 



The peculiar distribution of Limulus polyphemus is worthy of 

 note. It breeds north of Cape Cod and extends at least as far south 

 as Yucatan. It apparently does not extend as far south as Bahia, 

 but it may be found to occur on the South American coast between 

 that point and Yucatan. So far as is yet known it is characteristic 

 of the Eastern coast of North America. The presence of closely 

 related species in the Moluccas and on the coast of Japan, suggests, 

 as pointed out by Prof. H. Milne-Edwards,^ a former connection of the 

 Atlantic and Pacific Oceans. This may have been that even of 

 the Cretaceous, as the genus appears to have undergone little modi- 

 fication since an early geological period. The presence of members 

 of this genus in the Triassic, Jurassic, Cretaceous and Oligocene 

 beds of Europe and Syria, render it also possible that both the 

 American and Asiatic species may have had as their original center 

 of distribution the Mesozoic and Ceuozoic seas of Europe, the one 

 migrating westwards and the other eastwards, and that neither spe- 

 cies has been derived from the other, but both from a common 

 European ancestor. 



The author having previously been engaged in working up the 

 Echinoderms collected by the Academy's Expedition to Mexico,^ a 

 comparison of the distribution of the Echinoderms and Crustacea 

 oil the two sides of the continent, in the tropical and sub-tropical 

 regions, naturally suggests itself to the mind. Among the Echino- 

 derms no species are known, with absolute certainty, to be common 

 to both coasts ; if there are any, they are undoubtedly very few in 

 number, while in the Crustacea, as stated above, there are supposed 

 to be twenty-three species common to the two areas. Professor 

 Verrill,^ however, has pointed out that notwithstanding the absence 

 of identical species of Echinoderms, there is a very close relation 

 between the faunas of the two coasts. A large proportion of the 

 genera are represented on both sides. The fauna of the Pacific coast 

 is also very distinct from the Indo-Pacific fauna. The absence of 

 identical species of Echinoderms upon both coasts and their presence 



1 Crust. Miss. Sci. Mex , p. 4. 



2 Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1890, pp. 317-340. 

 * Trans. Conn. Acad. vol. I, pp. 339-351. 




204 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



in the Crustacea may be explained upon the supposition that the 

 comparatively recent connection of the oceans which allowed the pas- 

 sage of some of the Crustacea from one coast to the other, was not of 

 sufficient magnitude, or did not extend through a period of time long 

 enough to allow the less active Echinoderms to migrate, or their larvte 

 to be carried, from one region into the other. The general similarity, 

 on the other hand, of the Echinodeinns inhabiting both shores, points 

 to an earlier period, as in the Crustacea, when there was uninterrupted 

 communication between the two areas. The present distinct specific, 

 and to a certain extent generic, character of the two faunas point 

 to a subsequent complete separation of the two regions. This again 

 must have been partially obliterated, allowing a slight interming- 

 ling of the active forms of the two areas. 



As stated above, from the geological researches conducted by the 

 Mexican Expedition, and other explorations in Central and South 

 America, it is now known that Mexico and more or less of Central 

 and northern South America were submerged during the Cretaceous 

 period, and it is probable that there existed during this period a 

 tropical and sub-tropical American littoral fauna, undifferentiated 

 into Eastern and Western regions. During the succeeding Tertiary 

 period Central America were elevated, forming a complete bari'ier 

 between the two oceans, during this period the differentiation of the 

 two faunas took place. At a still later period there was probably 

 a partial subsidence of Central America, allowing the passage of a 

 few forms of the one region into the other. 



Literature of the stalk and sessile-eytd Crustacea of the West Indian region. 



1817 Thomas Sav. An account of tlie Crustacea of the United States. Jour. 

 Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. (1) vol. I. 



1836 Thomas Bell. Some account of the Crustacea of the coasts of South 

 America, with descriptions of new genera and species; founded principally ontlie 

 collections obtained by Mr. Cuming and Mr. Miller. Trans. Zool. Soc, vol. 2, 

 p. 39. Includes three crabs from the coast of Brazil. 



Ar. Fr. Aug. Weigmann. Beschre bung einiger neuen Ciustaceen des 

 Berliners Museums aus Mexico und Brasilien. Arch. f. Naturg., Bd. I, pp. 145-151. 

 One species of Atya and four of PaL-emon. 



]8o0 Lewis R. Gibbes. On the Carcinologicalcolleclions of the United Slates 

 and an enumeration of species contained in them, with notes on the most remark- 

 able, and descriptions of new species. Includes Decapoda and Stomatopoda. 



1852 J. D. Dana. Crustacea. U. S. Exploring Expedition during the years 

 1838, 1839, 1840, 1841, 1842, under the command of Charles Wilkes, U. S. N., 

 vol. XIII. Includes species collected at Rio Janeiro. 



1857 M. F. E. Guerin-Meneville. Animaux articules, a pied aiticules in La 

 Sagra's Histoire physique, politique et naturelle de L'lle de Cuba. Paris. Crust., 

 pp. XIII-LXVni. 



1858 H. de Saussure. Memoire sur divers Cruslaces nouveaux des Antilles et 

 du Mexique. Mem. Soc. Hist. Nat. Geneve, vol. XIV, p. 419. 




1891.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 205 



1859 William Stimpson. Notes on North American Crustacea, No. I. Annals 

 of the Lyceum of Natural History of New York, vol. 2, pp. 49-93, pi. 1 . Brachyura 

 and Anomura. 



1860 William Stimpson. Notes on Nortli American Crustacea, in the Museum 

 of the Smithsonian Institution, No. II, op. cit. pp. 176-346, pis. II. and V. 

 Brachyura and Anomura. 



1867 M.A.Schramm. D'apres un manuscrit du docteur Desbonne. Crustac6s 

 de la Guadeloupe, Ire partie, Brachyures, Basse-Terre. 



1868 Camil Heller. Crustacean. Reise der Oesterreichischen Fregatte Nov- 

 ara, Zoologische Theil, Bd. II, abth. Ill, No. 1. Includes Crustacea collected at 

 Rio Janeiro. 



1869 Sidney I. Smith. Notes on new or little known species of American 

 Cancroid Crustacea, Proc. Bost. Soc. Nat. Hist., vol. XII, pp. 274-289. Includes 

 species of the genera Xantho and Panopeus from the Caribbean region. 



Sidney I. Smith. Notice of the Crustacea collected by Prof. C. F. Hartt on 

 the coast of Brazil in lS67. Trans. Conn. Acad., vol. II, pp. 1-41. 



Ed. v. Martens. Siidbrasilische Siiss- und Brackwasser Crustaceen nach den 

 Sammlungen des Dr. Reinh. Hensel. Arch. f. Nalurg., Jahgr. 35, pp. 1-37, Taf. 

 I and II. Includes species of the genera Boscia, Trichodactylus, Syiviocarcinus, 

 Dilocarcinus, Gecarcinus, Cardisoma, Pelocarcinus, Uca, Helice, Sesarma, Gelasi- 

 mus, /Eglea, Astacus, Atya, Paleemon. Bithynis, Cryphiops. 



M. Schramm. Catalogues des Coquiiles et des Ciu^taces de la Guade- 

 loupe envoyes a I'Exposition Univcrselle de 1867 par I'Administration de la Co- 

 lonic. Collections caillet de I. Desljonne. Basse-Terre. 



1870 William S'impson. Preliminary Report upon the Crustacea dredged in 

 the Gulf Stream in the Straits of Florida by L. F. Pourtales, Assistant U. S. Coast 

 Survey, part 1, Brachyura, Bull. Mus. Comp. Zool., vol. II, p. 109. 



Sidney I. Smith. Notes on American Crustacea, No. 1, (3cypodoidea. Trans. 

 Conn. Acad., vol. II, pp. 113-176. 



1871 William Stimpson. Notes on the North American Crustacea in the Mu- 

 seum of the Smithsonian Institution, No. Ill, Ann. I^yc. Nat. Hist., New York, 

 vol. X, pp. 92-136. Decapoda. 



1872 Ed. v. Martens. Ueb^r Cubanische Crustaceen nach den Sammlungen 

 Dr. J. Grundlach's, Arch. f. Naturg., Jahrg. 38, p. 77. Decapoda and Stomatopoda. 



T. Hale Streets. Notes of some Crustacea from the Island of St. Martin. W. I. 

 collected by Dr. Van Rygersma, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., pp. 131-134. 

 Species collected : Pericera co7-niita, Gelasiiiius affinis, Calappa galioides, Dromia 

 lator, Petrolisthts nodostts, P. jugosus and Palcemon Jatnaicensis. 



1877 E. J. Miers. On a collection of Crustacea, Decapoda and Isopoda, 

 chiefly from South America with descriptions of new genera and species, Proc. 

 Zool. Soc, pp. 653-679. 



187S J. S. King-ley. A synopsis of North American species of the genus Al- 

 pheus, Bulletin of the U. S. Geological and Geographical Survey of the Territories, 

 vol. IV, pp. 189-199. 



J. S. Kingsley. Notes on the North American Caridea in the Museum of 

 the Peabody Academy of Science, at .Salem, Mass., Proc, Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 

 pp. 89-98. 



J. S. Kingsley. List of the North American Crustacea, belonging to the sub- 

 order Caridea. Bull. Essex Inst., vol. X, pp. 53-71. 



J. S. Kingsley. List of the Decapod Crustacea of the Atlantic Coast, whose 

 range includes Fort Macon, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., pp. 316-330. Decapoda. 



P. R. Uhler. List of animals observed at Fort Wool, Va. Chesapeake Zoolog- 

 ical Laboratory of Johns Hopkins University, vol. 1, Crustacea, pp. 25-27. 



1879 J. S. Kingsley. On a collection of Crustacea from Virginia, North Caro- 

 lina and Florida, with a revision of the genera of Crangonidse and Palasmonida;. 

 Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., pp. 383-427. Decapoda. 



S. I. Smith. The stalk-eyed Crustacea of the Atlantic Coa«t of North America, 

 North of Cape Cod. Trans. Conn. Acad., vol. V, page 27. Includes a con- 




206 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



sideration of the respective limits of the Northern and Southern littoral Crustacean 

 fauna of the Eastern coast of North America. 



1880 (1) Alphonse Milne-Edvvar.is. Eludes sur les Xiphosures et les Crust- 

 aces de la region Mexicaine. Mission Scientifique au Mexique et dans I'Amer- 

 ique Centrale. Paris. Imprimerie nationale. 



S. I. Smith. Occasional occurrence of tropical and sub-tropical species of 

 Decapod Crustacea on the coast of New England. Trans. Conn. Acad., vol. IV, 

 pp. 254. 



(2) Alphonse Milne-Edwards. Reports on the results of Dredging, un- 

 der the supervision of Alexander Agassiz, in the Gulf of Mexico and in the Car- 

 ibbean Sea, 1877, '78. '79, by the U. S. Coast Survey steamer Blake, Lieut-Com- 

 mander C. D. Sigsbee, U. S. N., and Commander J. R. Bartlett, U. S. N., com- 

 manding. VIII Etudes preliminaires sur les Crustaces. Bull. Mus. Comp. Zool. 

 Cambridge, pp. 1-68. Decapoda. 



1881 J. S. Kingsley. Notes on North American Decapoda. Proc. Bost. Soc. 

 Nat. Hist., vol. XX, pp. 145. Includes description of Floridian decapods of the 



•genera Mithraculus, Mithrax, Lambrus, Panopeus, Pilumnus and Pachygrapsus. 



E. J. Miers. Notice of Crustacea collected by P. Geddes, Esq., at Vera Cruz. 

 Jour. Linn. Soc, vol. XV, pp. 85-87. Species collected : Panopeus sp. ? Pachy- 

 grapsus socius. Pinnotheres Angelicus ? 



Alphonse Milne-Edwards. Considerations generales sur la Faune carcinolog- 

 ique des grandes profondeurs du Golf de Mexique. Comptes rendus, t. 92, pp. 

 384-388. 



1886 Emil A. Goldi. Studien ueber neue und weniger bekannte Podoph- 

 thalmen Brasiliens. Beilrage zur Kentniss der Susswasser-Genera; Trichod- 

 actylus, Dilocarcinus, Sylviocarcinus und der marinen Genera Leptopodia, Steno- 

 rhynchus. 



E. J. Miers. Report on the Brachyura collected by H. M. S. Challenger, dur- 

 ing the years 1873-1876. Includes Crustacea collected in the neighborhood of 

 Bermuda, Fernando Noronha and Bahia. 



W. K. Brooks. Report on the Stomatopoda collected by H. M. S. Chal- 

 lenger, during the years 1873-1876. 



Frank Evers Beddard. Report on the Isopoda collected by H. M. S. Challen- 

 ger, during the years 1873-1876. 



The two preceding papers include species collected in the neighborhood of 

 Sombrero, St. Thomas, Bermuda, Fernando Noronha and Bahia. 



1887 C. L. Herrick. Contribution to the Fauna of the Gulf of Mexico and the 

 South. List of the fresh-water and marine Crustacea of Alabama, with descrip- 

 tions of the new species and synoptical keys for identification. Memoirs of the 

 Denison Scientific Association, Granville, Ohio, vol. I, No. I. 



1888 C. Spence Bate. Report on the Crustacea Macrura dredged by H. M. S. 

 Challenger, during the years 1873-1876. 



J. K. Henderson. Report on the Anomura collected by H. M. S. Challenger, 

 during the years 1873-1876. 



Thomas R. R. Stebbing. Report of the Amphipoda collected by H. M. S. 

 Challenger, during the years 1873-1876. 



The three preceding monographs include species collected in the neighbor- 

 hood of Sombrero, St. Thomas, Bermuda, Fernando Noronha and Bahia. 



Angelo Heilprin. Contributions to the Natural History of the Bermuda 

 Islands. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., pp. 302-328. Includes a list of the 

 Crustacea collected in the Bermudas. 



1889 R. J. Pocock. Contributions to our knowledge of the Crustacea of Dom- 

 inica. Ann. Mag. Nat. Hist. (6), vol. Ill, p. 6. 




1891.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 207 



Explanation of Plate V. 



Fig. 1. Clibanarius forviosus, natural size. 



Fig. 2. Dorsal surface of the right hand. 



Fig. 3. Clibanarius vittatus, natural size. 



Fig. 4. Dorsal surface of the right hand. 



Fig. 5. Gelasimus speeiosus, natural size. 



Fig. 6. Inner surface of the hand. 



Fig. 7. Panopceus Herhstii. Dorsal surface of the carapace, 



showing the leaf-like antero-lateral teeth. 



Fig. 8. Palcemonella Yucatanica, enlarged two diameters. 



Explanation of Plate VI. 



Fig. 1. Hippolyte Wurdenianni. Enlarged two diameters. 



Fig. 2. Ligia Baudinlana. Enlarged two diameters. 



Fig. 3. Cirolana Mayana. Enlarged three diameters. 



Fig. 4. Right side, enlarged three diameters. 



Fig. 5. Dorsal view of right anterior antenna much enlarged. 



Fig. 6. Anterior view of same. 



Fig. 7. Last abdominal segment with appendages much enlarged. 



Figs. 8, 9, 10. First, fourth and seventh legs of the right side. 



Fig. 11. Cymodocea caudata, view of left side enlarged three 



diameters. 

 Fig. 12. Dorsal view, enlarged three diameters. 

 Fig. 13. Seventh thoracic segment, with the male appendages, much 



enlarged. 

 Fig. 14. Fourth leg of the right side, much enlarged. 

 Fig. 15. Cymodocea Bermudensis, enlarged three diameters. 

 Fig. 16. Left side, enlarged three diameters. 




208 proceedings of the academy of [1891. 



April 7. 

 Mr, Theodore D. Rand iu the cliair. 



Fifty-three persons present. 



Papers under the following titles were presented for publication : — 



Mexican Grasses : An enumeration of the Grasses collected by 

 Mr. C. G. Priugle in Mexico in 1890. By F. Lamsou Scribner, 



Mineral Localities of Philadelphia and Vicinity. By Theodore 

 D. Rand, William W. JefFeris and J. T. M. Cardeza, M. D. 



April 14. 

 The President, Dr. Joseph Leidy, in the chair. 

 Twenty-five persons present. 



A paper entitled " Note on Mesozoic Mammalia," by O. C. 

 Marsh, was presented for publication. 



The deaths of Mr. Aubrey H. Smith, member, on the 14th and 

 Mr. A. Sydney Biddle, member, on the 9th inst. were announced. 



April 21. 

 Mr. Charles Morris in the chair. 

 Twenty-four persons present. 



The death of Mr. P. AV. Sheafer, a member, INIarch 26, was 

 announced. 



Pedomorphism. — Dr. Harrison Allen spoke of the disposition 

 occasionally exhibited in adult mammals, for the proportions of differ- 

 ent parts of the body to remain as they were in the immature individ- 

 uals. He claimed for this peculiarity that it is not due to arrest of 

 growth but to the fact that certain parts preserve the peculiarities of 

 the young ; thus, for example, among the bats, the so-called species 

 F. lucif ag lis exhihits a number of characteristics Avhich are found in 

 the immature animal and which are the same in kind as those that 

 exist in an individual which in every other respect answers to the 

 description of the adult. In young bats, the foot and thumb are apt 

 to be large as compared with the same parts in the adult, at the same 

 time that the auricle and tragus are correspondingly small and the 

 snout high, blunt and nearly naked. Tlie parts often so remain. 

 Dr. Allen j)roposed for this peculiarity the term jjedomorphism. " V. 




1891.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 209 



luoifugus " becomes a pedoniorphic variety of V. subulatus. It might 

 be expected that pedomorpliic varieties closely resemble each other 

 Avhen the same disposition is exhil)ited in closely allied species. It 

 is almost impossible to distinguish the pedomorj)hic variety of V. 

 mbulatus from that of V. nitidus; or, to express it differently, the " T'^ 

 lucifngus" from the range of V. subulatus is an almost identical 

 form with the " V. lucifugus " from the range of V. nitidus. Some 

 species exhibit the disposition to retain pedomorphic variation to a 

 greater degree than others, and it is held to be probably true that 

 the existence of this disposition to so remarkable a degree in the 

 North American species of Vespertilio accounts for the great 

 confusion which has existed in this genus. — Writers imply by their 

 language that there is but one kind of variation, namely, tlie geo- 

 graphical. It is an advantage to recognize two kinds, namely, the 

 pedomorphic and the geographical. 



April 28. 

 Dr. George H. Horn in the chair. 

 Twenty-four persons present. 

 The following were elected members : 



John Arschagonni, M. D., Robert P. Morton, Witmer Stone and 

 Edwin Corlies Atkinson. 



Charier Otis AVhitman of "Worcester, was elected a corresj^ondent. 

 The following were ordered to be printed : — 




210 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



ECHINODERMS AND ARTHROPODS FROM JAPAN. 

 BY J. E. IVES. 



The marine invertebrates enumerated and described in tbe follow- 

 ing pages were collected by Mr. Frederick Stearns, of Detroit, ISIich- 

 igan, during nearly a year's residence in Japan. He was assisted 

 by an intelligent Japanese, who visited at intervals the entire south- 

 eastern coast from Tokyo by Sagama and Saruga, along Kii, Awa 

 and Toza, and the north shore of the Inland Sea as far west 

 as Bingo, in communication with the fishermen, who di*edge for 

 fish and molluscs in water sometimes as deep as thirty fathoms. 



The southeastern coast of Japan is washed by the warm waters of 

 theKuro Schiwo, the continuation of the north equatorial current of 

 the Pacific. The fauna of this coast is essentially Indo-Pacific, 

 although it possesses many species both of echinoderms and crusta- 

 ceans peculiar to it.^ There does not appear to be any evidence of 

 a recent connection of the southern portion of Japan with the main- 

 land, and the Indo-Pacific species found there must have been 

 carried thither by the Kuro Schiwo, probably in the larval condition. 

 The forms that are peculiar may be regarded as Indo-Pacific types 

 differentiated by the special character of these shores. 



The knowledge of the echinoderm and crustacean faunas of these 

 coasts has been largely derived from the collections made by Ph. 

 Fr. von Siebold. The star-fishes collected by him were described by 

 Miiller and Troschel in the System der Asteriden, to whose descrip- 

 tions additional information was furnished by Dr. Von Martens in 

 1865.^ The Crustacea were monographed by De Haan in the 

 " Fauna Japonica," and this beautiful work even at this day leaves 

 little to be desired by the systeraatist. To the knowledge of the 

 latter group, additions were made by Stimpson ^ in 1857, 1858 and 



1 For a discussion of the limitations of the Japanese region see Professor Dana 

 in his monograph of the Crustacea of the U. S. Exploring Expedition; Prof. A. 

 Agassiz in the Revision of the Echini and Dr. Paul Fischer, in the Manuel de 

 Conchyliogie. 



2 Arch. f. Naturg., Jahrg. 31, pp. 34o-360. 



3 Prodromus descriptionis animalium invertebratorum qu?e in expeditione ad 

 oceanum Pacificum septentrionalem a Republica federata missa Cadwaladaro Ring- 

 gold et Johanne Rodgers ducibus, observavit et descripsit. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. 

 Phila., Pts. I-III, 1857; Pts. IV-VII, 1858; Pt. VIII, I860. 




1891.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 211 



1860, and by Miers^ in 1879. Dr. Ludwig Doderlein- has made the 

 most important addition to the department of Echinoidi^, recording 

 in 1885 forty-seven species of sea urchins collected by himself in 

 Japan, of which twenty were new. The most important con- 

 tribution to the Pycnogonoids of Japan was made in 1890 by Dr. A. 

 Ortman,^ who described the specimens collected by Dr. Doderlein. 

 Three new species, collected by Dr. Hilgeudorff in Japan had already 

 been described by R. BGhm ' in 1879. The Challenger Expedition 

 collected on the southeast coast of Japan. Its various monographs 

 contain contributions to the fauna of this coast. 



The entire collection made by Mr. Stearns was not forwarded to 

 me, only duplicates being sent where more than one specimen was 

 collected. I am, therefore, unable to give any particulars as to the 

 abundance or scarcity of the forms obtained, except in the cases 

 where only one specimen was found, when that fact is stated. 



I wish to acknowledge my indebtedness to Mr. Stearns, for his 

 liberality in making possible the publication of the plates accom- 

 panying this paper. 



In the following pages the species of echinoderms and Crustacea 

 collected by Mr. Stearns are enumerated, a new Ophurian, a new 

 crab, and a new and interesting Pycnogonoid are described, and 

 several species of star-fishes hitherto unfigured, have been figured. 



ASTEROIDEA. 



Astropecten armatus. 



Miiiler und Troschel, System der Asteriden, p. 71. 



Astropecten Japonicus. PI. VII, figs. 5-9. 

 Miiller and Troschel, op. cit., p. 205. 



Only a single specimen collected by ]\Ir. Stearns. 



Astropecten scoparius. PI. VIII, figs. l-i. 

 Miiller and Troschel, op. cit., p. 71. 



Luidia quinaria. PI. IX, figs. 5-9. 



Von Martens, Archiv f. Naturg. 1865, p. 352. 

 Sladen, Challenger Asteroidea, p. 253. 



1 On a collection of Crustacea made by Capt. H. St. John, R. X. in the Corean 

 and Japanese Seas. Ft. I, Podophthalmia, with an appendix by Capt. H. C. St. 

 John, Proc. Zool. Soc. 1879, pp. 18-61, Pis. I-III. 



2Seeigel von Japan und den Lius Riu Inseln, Arch. f. Naturg., Jahrg. II, pp. 

 73-112, and Die Japanische Seeigel. 1, Familien Cidaridce und Salenida, Stutto-art, 

 1887. 



3 Zool. Jahrbb. Bd. 5, pp. 157-167. 



* S. B. Gesellsch. Naturf. Freunde zu Berlin, 1879, pp. 53-60. 




212 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



Asterina pectinifera. PI. X, figs. 1-4. 

 Miiller and Troschel, op. cit , p. 40. 

 Von Martens, op. cit., p. 352. 



Nine specimens of this species were sent by ]\Ir. Stearns, indicating 

 that it is found in abundance. It agrees in general characters with 

 Astei'ina miniata, but differs from that species in the more heap-like 

 arrangement of the spiuelets of the paxillse, in the absence of a well 

 marked series of paxillte along the middle line of the dor.sal surface 

 of each arm, and in the color. 



Nardoa semiregularis var. Japonica. PI. VII, figs. 1-4. 

 Von Martens, op. cit., j>. 351. 



Cribrella sanguinolenta. PI. IX. figs. 1-4. 

 (). F. MuUer, Zool. Dan. Prodr., p. 234. 

 Siaden, op. cit., p. 542. 



Asterias Amurensis. PI. VIII, figs. .5-8. 



Liitken, Vidensk. Meddel. Kjobenhaven, 1871, p. 296. 

 Siaden, op. cit., p. 575. 



This species is closely related to Asterias versicolor of Siaden. 

 Future investigation may prove them to be identical. 



Asterias torquata. 



Siaden, op. cit., p. 570, PI. CIT, figs. 1-4. 



Only a single specimen was collected by Mr. Stearns. 

 OPHIUROIDEA. 



Pectinura Stearnsii, n. sp. PI. XI, figs. 1-5. 



Disk covered beneath the granulation with small coarse scales ; 

 granulation fine and clo.se; radial shields large, irregularly oval, 

 somewhat acute at both ends, nearly twice as long as broad. Mouth 

 shields large, sub-triangular ; supplementary plate semi-circular, less 

 than one-fourth the size of the mouth shields. Side mouth shields 

 small, smaller than the supplementary plates. Fourteen mouth 

 papilke to each angle ; the two outer papillse very broad, sub- 

 quadrate, as broad as three of the others. At the apex of the mouth 

 angle are two papilla? half as broad as the outer-most mouth papillae, 

 projecting into the mouth angle one on either side with their bases 

 resting upon the side mouth shields.^ Five rounded teeth. Length 

 of the arms from the edge of the disk to the tip, rather more than 

 four times the diameter of the disk. Upper arm plates entire ; 

 lower arm plates quadrate with the angles truncated with slight 

 indentation of the aboral edge ; half as broad again as long. Pores 



1 Unfortunately, through an oversight, the number and shape of the mouth 

 papillit. are not clearly shown in the accompanying figure of this species. 




1891.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 213 



between the first aud second under arm plates. Two tentacle scales, 

 the inner one longer than the outer, with a round end, the outer 

 broader than the inner one, shoi'ter and truncated, overlapping the 

 base of the lowest side arm spine; side arm plates occupying two- 

 thirds of the height of the arm, near the base of the arm, with 

 eleven short flattened arm spines, the lowest arm spine the longest, 

 the rest subequal about one-half the length the side arm plate. 



Dorsal surface of the disk in dried specimen dirty brown, mottled 

 with darker and lighter brown. Radial shields chocolate brown. 

 Dorsal surface of the arms greenish-gray irregularly banded with 

 dark brown and spotted with lighter. Ventral ?urfi\ce of the disk 

 brownish around the edges and reddish spotted with lighter towards 

 the center. Ventral surface of the arms grayish towards the 

 extremities and reddish spotted with lighter in the neighborhood of 

 the disk. 



In the specimen described, diameter of the disk 30 ram., length 

 of an arm from the edge of the disk to the tip, 105 mm. 



This species is allied to Pectinura marmorata^ from the Philippines, 

 but may be distinguished from it by its much smaller supplementary 

 mouth shields, its higher side arm plates, its shorter and flatter arm 

 spines, and its truncated, not rounded, outer tentacle scale. 



A single specimen has been presented to the Academy by Mr. 

 Stearns. 



Ophioplocus imbricatus. PI. XI, figs. 6-10. 



Miiller and Troschel. op. cit., p. 93. 



Lyman, Proc. Bost. Soc. Nat. Hist., Vol. VIII, p. 76; IHus. Cat., p. 69, Mem. 

 Mus. Comp. Zool., Vol. I; Challenger Ophiuroidea, p. 20, PI. XXXVII, figs. 

 10-12. 



Three specimens. The largest with a disk 28 mm. in diameter, 

 one-third of the length of an arm, and the smallest with a disk 13 

 mm. in diameter, one-fourth of the length of an arm. Genital slits, 

 as observed by Mr. Lyman ^ on specimens from Japan and Java in 

 the Leyden Museum, extending to the mouth shields, thus reach- 

 ing for more than half the distance from the aboral edge of the 

 mouth shields to the edge of the disk. The specimens collected by 

 Mr. Stearns also difier from the typical form of Ophioplocus 

 imbricatus in the presence of a number of small supplementary arm 

 plates between, or on the edges of the larger jjlates. 



1 Lyman, Bull. Mus. Comp. Zool., Vol. 3, pp. 222, 223, PI. V, figs. 1-7. 



2 Bull. Mus. Comp. Zool., Vol., VIII, p. 22S. 




214 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



ECHINOIDEA. 



Goniocidaris biserialis. 



Step!ianocidaris biserialis, Doderlein, Archiv f. Naturg. Jalirg. 51, p. 80. 

 Goniocidaris biserialis, Doderlein, " Die Japanische Seeigel," Tiieil. I, pp. 10- 

 13, Taf. V, Taf. VIII, fig. 8a-h. 



A single test of this interesting species was collected by Mr. 



Stearns. The coronal, genital and ocular plates are moderately 



thick. 



Diadema setosum. 



Gray, 1825, Ann. Phil., p. 4 (from Rumph.). 



A. Agassiz, Rev. Ecliin., Mem. Mus. Comp. Zool. Vol., Ill, p. 274, Pis. IVa, etc. 



Strongylocentrotus depressus. 



A. Agassiz, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., p. 440 ; Rev. Echin., Mem. Mas. Comp. 

 Zool., Vol. Ill, p. 440. 



A single specimen collected. 



Strongylocentrotus tuberculatus. 

 Lamarck, Anim. sans \'crt., p. 50. 

 A. Agassiz, Rev. Echin., p. 449, PL V b, figs. 4-5, PI. XXXVI, fig. 4. 



Temnopleurus Reynaudi. 



Agassiz, C. R., Ann. Sci. Nat., VI, p. 360. 



A. Agassiz, Rev. Echin., p. 461, Pi. VIII, figs. 22-24, PI. VIII a, figs. 6, 7. 



Temnopleurus toreumaticus. 



Leske, Additamenta ad. Klein, p. 91. 



A. Agassiz, Rev. Echin. pp. 463, 464, PI. Villa, figs. 4-5. 



Toreumatica Hardwickii, Gray, Proc. Zool. Soc. 1855, p. 39; A. Agassiz, op. 

 cit., pp. 460, 461, Pis. VIII, Villa, XXV, XXXVI. 



In the series of six specimens presented to the Academy by Mr. 

 Stearns, three are forms connecting Temnopleurus toreumatica and 

 Temnopleurus Hardwickii as defined by Professor Alexander Agassiz 

 in the Revision of the Echini, and I am, therefore, compelled to 

 regard the latter species as a synonym of the former. One specimen 

 having rather deep pits, has the ocular and genital plates covered 

 with prominent tubercles, and other specimens show the passage 

 from the deep rectangular pits to the bevelled grooves of the 

 ambulacral and interambulacral regions. 



Toxopneustes pileolus. 



Lam., Anim. sans Vert., p. 45. 



Alex. Agassiz, Rev. Echin., Mem. Mus. Comp. Zool., Vol. Ill, p. 497, Pis. 

 Vlllb, etc. 



A single specimen obtained. 



Echinanthus testudinarius. 



Gray, Proc. Zool. Soc. 1851, p. 35; Cat. Echin. Brit. Mus., p. 6, PI. 1, fig. 1. 

 A. Agassiz, op. cit., p. 514. 



Laganum decagonalis. 



Lesson, Blainville, Diet. Sci. Nat. Scut., p. 229. 

 A. Agassiz, op. cit., p. 520, Pis. Xllle, XXXVII. 




1891.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 215 



In the specimens presented to the Academy by Mr. Stearns the 

 connecting walls do not ramify, and as there can be no doubt that 

 these specimens belong to this species, the distinction between the 

 genera Peronella and Laganum, as defined by Professor Alexander 

 Agassiz, does not hold good. 



Echinarachnius mirabilis. 



Barnard, A. Agassiz, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1863, p. 359. 



A. Agassiz, Rev. Echin., Mem. Mus. Comp. Zool., Vol. Ill, p. 526, Pis. XIII 

 a, XXXVII. 



ScMzaster Japonicus. 



A. Agassiz, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1879, Vol. XIV, p. 212; Challenger 

 Echinoidea, p. 202, Pis. XXXVI, XLIII, XLV. 



CRUSTACEA. 



Fugettia incisa. 



Pisa [Halmius) incisa, De Haan, Fauna japonica, Crust., p. 98, PI. XXIV, fig. 

 3, Pi. G. 



Pugeitia incisa, Miers, Challenger Brachyura, p. 40. 



Chlorinoides longispinus. 



Alaja [Ckorinus) longispina, De Haan, op. cit., p. 94, Tab. XXIII, fig. 2, 

 Maja {Chorinus) aciileafa.) 



Chlorinoides longispinus, Miers, Challenger Brachyura, p. 53. 



Schizophrys aspera. 



Mithrax aspera, Milne-Edwards, Hist. Nat. Crust., Vol. I, p. 320. 



Schizophrys aspera, A. Milne-Edwards, Nouv. Arch., Vol. VIII, p. 231, figs. 

 1-lf. 



Lambrus validus. 



Parthenope (Lambrus) validus, De Haan, op. cit., p. 90, Tab. XXI, fig. 1, Tab. 

 XXII, figs. 1-3. 



Atergatis floridus. 



Cancer Jioridus, L., .Syst. Nat., ed. XII, p. 1044. 



Atergatis floridus, Dana, Crust. U. S. Explor. E.xped., p. 159, PI. VII, fig. 4. 



A single specimen was collected. 



Goniosoma Japonicum. 



Goniosoma sexdentata, De tiaan, op. cit., 41, PI. XII, fig. 1. 



Goniosoma Japonicum, A. Milne-Edwards, Arch. Mus., t. X, p. 372. 



Goniosoma aculum, A. Milne- Edwards, Nouv. Arch., t. V, p. 150, PI. VII, figs. 

 8-10. 



The specimen given to the Academy by Mr. Stearns is inter- 

 mediate in character between G. Japonicum and G. acutum, and I 

 have, therefore, given the latter species as a synonym of the former. 

 The posterior antero-lateral tooth on the right side is produced as 

 in Milne-Edwards' figure of G. acutum, but on the left side it is not 

 produced and is not longer than the preceding tooth. The carapace 

 is rather less extended at the sides than in the figure of this species, 

 and rather more so than in the figure of G. Japonicum. The antero- 




216 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



lateral teeth are rather less prominent than in G. acutum and rather 

 more so than in G. Japonicum. The outline of the postero-lateral 

 borders of the carapace is also intermediate in character. Three 

 other specimens from Japan in the Museum of this Academy show 

 the passage of the one form into the other. 



Macrophthalmus dilatatus. 



Ocypoda {Macrophthalmtis) dilatata, De Haan, op. cit., p 55, Tab. XV, fig. 3. 



Brachynotus (Heterograpsus) penicillatus. 



De Haan, op. cit., pp. 3J, 60, Tab. XI, fig. 5. 



Helice tridens. 



De Haan, op. cit., p. 57, Tab. XI, fig. 2 ; Tab. XV, fig. 6. 



Sesarma affinis. 



Grapsics i^P achy soma') affinis, De Haan, op. cit., p. 66, Tab. XVIH, fig. 5. 



Eriocheir Japonica. 



Grapsus \Eriocheir) Japoninis, De Haan, op. cit., p. 39, Tab. XVII. 



Philyra pisum. 



De Haan, op. cit., p. 131, Tab. XXXIII, fig. 7. 



Arcania undecimspinosa. 



De Haan, op. cit.. p. 135, Tab. XXXIII, fig. 8. 



Leucosia unidentata. 



De Haan, op. cit., p. 133, Tab. XXXIII, fig. 3. 



Leucosia longifrons. 



De Haan, op. cit., p. 132, Tab. XXXIII, fig. 4. 



It is very probable that this and the preceding form represent 

 merely two varieties of the same species. 



Dorippe Japonica. 



Von Siebold, Spicilegia, Fauna Japonica, p. 14. 



De Haan, op. cit., p. 122, PI. XXXI, fig. 1 {Dorippe callida). 



Cryptodromia Stearnsii, n. sp. PI. XII, figs. 1-3. 



Carapace sub-pentagonal in outline, the angle of the pentagon 

 directed forwards being occupied by the rostral teeth as broad as 

 long ; upper surface very convex, smooth, minutely punctate, with a 

 few minute scattered tubercles, cervical groove well defined. An 

 ill-defined groove bounded on either side by a slight elevation leads 

 to the depression between the lateral rostral teeth. Median rostral 

 tooth small, triangular, depressed ; lateral rostral teeth well devel- 

 oped, rounded triangular, their inner borders depressed, supra-orbital 

 tooth very small. The posterior border of the orbit forming a slight 

 prominence. Three small antero-lateral teeth, the third or most 

 posterior placed at the junction of the lateral and the antero-lateral 

 edges of the carapace; the second placed on a level with the third, 

 at about two-thirds of the distance from the posterior border of the 




1891.] NATURAL SCIE^•CES OF PHILADELPHIA. 217 



orbit to the third, and the first placed rather higher upon the 

 carapace than the other two, at about one-third of the distance from 

 the posterior border of the orbit to the third tooth. Lateral border 

 divided by a groove which coniniences at about one-third of the diti- 

 tance from the third autero-lateral tooth to the posterior border of 

 the carapace. Behind the groove at its commencement is a small 

 tooth. This groove is continued backwards and inwards across the 

 branchial area and ends by passing forwards into the groove separat- 

 ing the branchial and cardiac regions. The subhepatic area is small 

 and has four small teeth, two of them placed one behind the other 

 beneath the eye, along the inner border of the area ; a third placed 

 behind these two; and a fourth placed half way between the last 

 mentioned and the second antero-lateral tooth on the edge of the 

 carapace. 



Two large tubercles upon the distal edge of the outer surface of 

 the carpus of the cheliped, a smaller one behind these two. and a 

 still smaller one above this one. Two tubercles upon the distal end 

 of the upper surface of the manus, the outer tubercle the larger of 

 the two, and a minute tubercle situated at the proximal end of a row 

 of three minute tubercles along the inner edge of the upper surface. 

 The carpal joints of the two anterior pairs of cruripeds (ambulatory 

 legs) end in two tubercles, the propodal joints in one. In the spec- 

 imen examined only the first pair of the last two pairs of cruripeds 

 are entire, and they possess but a single claw each. 



The entire specimen under examination is covered with apparently 

 a pilose pubescence. 



The species closely resembles Cryptodromia Japonlca but may be 

 readily distinguished from it by the presence of three antero-lateral 

 teeth instead of two. 



The genus Cryptodromia was established by Stimpson in 1858,' 

 and the following species, have been referred to it : — 



C. nodipes, Dromia nodipes (Lamarck) Milne-Edwards, Hist. Nat. Crust., t. II, 

 p. 177, 1887; Guerin, Icon., PI. 14, fig. 1. 



C fallax, Dromia fallax (Lamarck) Milne-Edwards, op. cit., p. 176 ; Mauritius. 

 C. lata-alis, Dromia lateralis. Gray, Zool. Miscell., p. 40 ; Haswell, Cat. Austral. 

 Crust., p 139. 



Australia, New Zealand and Japan. 

 C. coronata, Stimps., Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1858, p. 239. 



Boniii Islands. 

 C. iuberculata, Stimps., op. cit., p. 239. 



Caspar Straits, Island of Kikaisima and Bay of Kagosima. 



1 Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1858, p. 225. 

 15 




218 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



C. tufnida, Stimps.. op. cit., p. 240. 



Bay of Fou-kovv, Island of Ousima. 

 C. canalicuLita, Slimps. loc. cit. 



Ga'^par Straits, Loo-choo Islands, Kikaisima Island. 

 C. tonientosa, Dromia tomentosa, Heller, S. B. Akad. Wiss. Wein, Bd. XLIV, 

 Abth. I, p. 241,1861. 



Druviia {^Cryplodromia) tomentosa Hilgendorf, M. B. Akad. Wiss. Berlin, 1878, 

 p. S13. Taf. II, figs. 3-5. 



Reil Sea; Ibo I-land, Mozambique. 

 C. pentdi^onalis, Dromia {^Cryptodromia) peniagonalis, Hilgendorf, op. cit., p. 

 SI 4, Taf. il, figs. 1, 2. 



Ibo Island. Mozambique. 

 C. Jdponica, Henderson, " Challenger" Anomura, p. 6, PI. I, fig. 2. 



OfFYoko>ka, ]apan. 

 C. nodiilifera, IJenderson, op. cit., p. 8, PI. I, fig. 3- 



Oft the .Australian coast. 

 C. indsa, Henderson, op. cit., p. 10, PI. I, fig. 4. 



Off Twofold Bay, Australia. 



Mr. Miers^ records a young .specimen from the Corean and 

 Japanese Seas of doubtful species, and Dr. de Man^ records another 

 young specimen of doubtful species from the Mergui Archipelago. 



Lyreidus tridentatus. 



De Haan, op. cit., p. 140, Tab. XXXV, fig. 6. 



Eupagurus constans. 



Stimpson, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1858, p. 248. 

 HeHderson, Challenger Anomura, p. 67, PI. VI, fig. 8. 



A single specimen collected. 



PANTOPODA. 



An interesting Pycnogonoid collected by Mr. Stearns apparently 

 represents a new species. In describing it I have followed in a 

 general way the nomenclature of parts adopted by Dr. Hoek in his 

 monograph of the Pycuogonoids collected by the Challenger Expedi- 

 tion. I differ from him slightly, however, in terming the whole of 

 the trunk, from its junction with the proboscis to the commencement 

 of the abdomen, the cephalothorax, instead of confining that term to 

 the first segment of the trunk. This appears to me to be a more 

 correct use of the term, as when the cephalon and thorax are united, 

 the cephalon ceases any longer to be the cephalon pure and simple, 

 and the thorax, in the same way, any longer the thorax pure and 

 simple. The whole then becomes the cephalothorax, and any part 

 of it is a part of the cephalothorax. 



The following is a description of the species. : — 



1 Proc. Zool. Soc. 1879, p. 44. 



» Jour. Linn. Soc, Vol. XXII, p. 211, 1888. 




1891.] NATURAL SCIEXCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 219 



Ascorhynchus Japonicus, n. sp. PI. XII, fig?. 4-1 1). 



Body strong, slender ; its surface very minutely tuberculated ; 

 tubercles themselves, when highly magnified, seem to he multi- 

 tuberculate ; proboscis one-third of the total length of the body ; 

 abdomen one-half of the length of the proboscis ; three strong spines 

 placed on the dorsal posterior margin of the first three cephalo- 

 thoracic segments. Proboscis stout, pyriform, triangular in trans- 

 verse section ; sides of the proboscis not longitudinally furrowed, 

 divided by constriction into an anterior and a posterior portion, the 

 anterior portion nearly twice as long as the posterior portion, the 

 whole resembling an unopened rose-bud ; truncated at its extrem- 

 ity, ^louth large, triangular. 



Length of the first cephalo-thoracic segment about two-fifths of 

 that of the whole cephalo-thorax. Anterior portion rectangular, 

 bearing at the angles the mandibles. Xo azygous knob between the 

 mandibles. Palpi inserted at about one-quarter of the distance be- 

 tween its anterior and posterior extremities, a slight elevation be- 

 tween the palpi. Slightly narrowed immediately behind the inser- 

 tion of the palpi. Large, conical, oculiferous tubercle situated be- 

 tween the lateral processes of the ovigerous legs at rather more than 

 half the distance from its anterior to its posterior border, possess- 

 ing four distinct eyes of moderate size ; the two anterior eyes rather 

 larger than the two posterior; pigment of a light reddish color. A 

 rather smaller tubercle is found uj)on its dorsal posterior border. 

 Lateral processes for the insertion of the ovigerous legs, short, not 

 longer than the width of that portion of the segment directlv in 

 front of them ; those for the insertion of the true legs long, three 

 times as long as those last mentioned. 



Second and third cephalothoracic segments about as long as their 

 lateral processes which are rather longer than those of the first 

 segment ; each segment possessing a prominent tubercle upon its 

 postero-dorsal margin. Fourth cephalo-thoracic segment of about 

 the same length as the third. 



Abdomen long and narrow, slightly swollen at the extremity. 



Mandibles three jointed, chelate, claws very small, slight. First 

 joint the longest ; second joint rather more than half as long as the 

 first joint. 



Palpi incomplete in the specimen, only eight joints being present, 

 but apparently of very nearly the same form as in Ascorhynchus gla- 




220 PROCEKDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



ber Hoek.^ First two joints extremely small ; the third the longest, 

 half as long as the proboscis; the fourth short, the fifth nearly four 

 times as long as the fourth ; the sixth short, slightly shorter than 

 the fourth ; the seventh about twice as long as the sixth ; the eight 

 slightly longer than the seventh. 



The ovigerous legs have the fourth joint the longest, as long as 

 the anterior portion of the proboscis ; the fifth rather shorter ; the 

 sixth about one-half the length of the fifth ; the seventh, eighth, ninth 

 and tenth slightly decreasing in length from the sixth ; the terminal 

 claw minute ; the first joint very small ; the second and third about 

 one-third of the length of the fourth. The denticulated spines 

 placed in several rows of difl^erent sizes. The fourth, fifth and sixth 

 joints armed with bristles most numerous at the distal extremities of 

 the fifth and sixth joints. 



The legs in the specimen collected are all imperfect but correspond 

 in general shape to those of A. glaber, as shown in Dr. Hoek's 

 figure. Of the first pair, the first, second and third joints are present ; 

 of the second, the first, second, third and fourth; of the third and 

 fourth, the first, second, third, fourth and fifth. The joints of the 

 first pair of legs are slightly shorter than those of the second pair, 

 and the joints of second pair, are slightly shorter of those of the 

 third and fourth pairs. Of the third pair, the first joint is nearly as 

 long as the lateral process ; the second nearly twice as long as the 

 first joint, the third rather shorter than the first; the fourth joint 

 about half as long again as the proboscis, and the fifth joint rather 

 shorter than the fourth. The legs aie hairless. The fourth and 

 fifth joints where present are furnished with a row of minute 

 tubercles upon the dorsal surface, such as is found in Ascorhynchus 

 glaber. 



The specimen collected is a male, the fourth joint of the legs being 

 slender, the genital pores minute, and the ovigerous legs well devel- 

 oped. The genital pores are situated on the ventral extremity of 

 the second joint of the two posterior pairs of legs. 



Color of the dried specimen, a light yellowish brown. 



Length of the proboscis, 12"5 mm. 



Length of the trunk, 18'5 mm. 



Length of the abdomen, 6*0 mm. 



Length of the whole body, 37'0 mm. 



1 'Challenger' Pycnogonida, pp. 53-55, PI. VI, figs. 5-9; PI. XV, fig. 16. 




1891.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADEUMHA. 221 



This is a very fine species, mucli larger thau any otlier species of 

 the genus yet kno^yn. The only other species which approach it in 

 size are Ascorhynchus glaher and Ascorhynclms orthorhi/nchus. It is 

 nearly half as long again as Ascorhynchus glaber, the larger of these 

 two species. 



It is closely allied to the latter species, but differs from it in 

 the following well-marked characters: — ' 



1. The proboscis is divided into two portions, is truncated and not 

 longitudinally furrowed while in A. glaher it is divided into three 

 portions, is sharply pointed and each of its three sides is longitu- 

 dinally furrowed. 



2. The oculiferous tubercle bears four distinct eyes, whereas in A. 

 glaher it is entirely destitute of eyes. 



3. The surface of the whole body is covered with a very minute 

 granulation, whereas in A. glaher it is entirely smooth, with the 

 exception of the dorsal cephalo-thoracic spines. 



It will be seen from the above description that this is a species of 

 great interest. The form to which it is closely related, ^1. glaher, 

 was dredged in the Southern Ocean, between the Cape of Good Hope 

 and Kerguelen Island in 1.375 fathoms. The species from Japan 

 was obtained in shallow water. The presence of eyes in A. Japonicus 

 and the simple character of the proboscis, divided into two portions 

 instead of into three, causes the question as to whether this species 

 does not represent the ancestral type of A. glaher, which may have 

 become adapted to deep water and migrated southwards. 



Dr. Hoek in his monograph of the Pycnogonida collected by the 



Challenger Expedition, gives a list of the species then known. The 



following species of Ascorhynchus have been described since, all from 



Japan. : — 



A. cryptopygiMS, Oximsir\n,Z^,o].]3.hrhh.Bd. .5, p. 159, Taf. XXIV, fig. 2, 1890. 

 A. (^labroides, Ortmanii, op. cit., p. IBO, Taf. XXIV, figs. 3a, 3b. 

 A. bicornis, Ortmann, o|). cit., p. 162. 



Of the nine species now known, five are peculiar to Japan. 



Explanation ov Plates. 



Plate VIL 



Fig. 1. Nardoa semiregularis var. Japonlca, dorsal surface, natural 



size. 

 Fig. 2. Ventral surface, natural size. 

 Fig. 3. Portion of the dorsal surface of an arm, enlarged. 

 Fig. 4. Portion of the ventral surface enlarged. 




222 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



Astropecten Japonicus, dorsal surface, natural size. 



Ventral surface, natural size. 



Portion of the dorsal surface of an arm, enlarged. 



Portion of the ventral surface, enlarged. 



Portion of the side of an arm near its base, enlarged. 



. Plate VIII. 



Astropecten scoparius, dorsal surface, natural size. 



Ventral surface, natural size. 



Portion of ventral surface, of an arm, enlarged. 



Portion of dorsal surface enlarged. 



Asterias Amurensis, dorsal surface, natural size. 



Ventral surface, natural size. 



Portion of the dorsal surface of an arm, enlarged. 



Portion of ventral surface, enlarged. 



Plate IX. 



Cribrella sanguinolenta, dorsal surface, natural size. 



Ventral surface, natural size. 



Portion of dorsal surface of an arm, enlarged. 



Portion of ventral surface, enlarged. 



Luidia quinaria, dorsal surface, natural size. 



Ventral surface, natural size. 



Portion of dorsal surface of an arm, enlarged. 



Portion of the side of an arm near the base, enlarged. 



Portion of the ventral surface of an arm, enlarged. 



Plate X. 



Asterina pedinifera. Dorsal surface, natural size. 

 Ventral surface, natural size. 

 Portion of dorsal surface, enlarged. 

 Portion of ventral surface, enlarged, 



Plate XL 



Pectinura Stearnsii. Dorsal surfiice, natural size. 

 Ventral surface, natural size. 



Portion of the dorsal surface of an arm near the base, en- 

 larged. 

 Fio-. 4. Portion of ventral surface of an arm near the base, en- 

 larged. 




1891.] NATURAL SCIENXES OF PHILADELPHIA. 223 



Portion of the side of an arm near the base, enlarged. 

 Ophioploms imbricatus. Dorsal surface, natural size. 

 Ventral surface, natural size. 



Portion of the dorsal surface of the disk and an arm, en- 

 larged. 



Portion of the ventral surface of the disk and an arm, 

 enlarged. 

 Portion of the side of an arm near the base, enlarged. 



Plate XII. 



Cryptodromia Stearnsii, dorsal surface, natural size. 



Ventral surface, natural size. 



Left side of the carapace, natural size. 



Ascorhynchus Japjovieus, dorsal surface, natural size. 



Ventral surface, natural size. 



Right side of the trunk with anterior appendages, without 



the legs, natural size. 



Oculiferous tubercle, viewed from the right side, enlarged. 



Oculiferous tubercle, viewed from above, enlarged, a 



anterior margin, h posterior margin. 

 Fig. 9. Fifth joint of the fourth leg on the right side, enlarged. 

 Fig. 10. Mandibles, viewed from above, enlarged. 




224 PROUEEDENGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



ON THE EXTERNAL CHARACTERS OF F(ETAL REINDEER, 

 AND OTHER NOTES. 



BY R. W. .SHUFELDT, M. D. 



Mr. Lucien M. Turner, on the 20th of May, 1884, collected at 

 Fort Chimo, Ungava District, Hudson's Bay, two specimens of foetal 

 Reindeer, or Woodland Caribou {Rangifer tarandus caribou, Kerr), 

 one being a male and the other a female. They were taken from 

 slain does, " one from each, and within eighteen days of delivery," 

 and at once consigned to strong alcohol, the tank containing them 

 being sent to the Smithsonian Institution at AVashingtou. Early 

 in February, 1886, Professor Baird sent them to the writer, 

 then residing at Fort Wingate, New Mexico, for anatomical descrip- 

 tion ; owing to the fact, however, that my investigations upon the 

 osteology of arctic birds then engaged every moment of my available 

 time, they were not examined until nearly the middle of June of the 

 same year. Altliough they had been in spirit two years, they were 

 found to be in excellent condition, and I at once made the drawing 

 of the head of the male, which illustrates the present paper. As 

 will be seen further on, the male fawn of this pair is somewhat 

 larger than the female, with which it differs in several minor 

 details other than those pertaining to the organs of sex. 



The male subject I found to possess a very full coat of soft fine 

 hair which completely covered its body, extending up to the lips and 

 snout, and well inside of the external ears. In the median line in 

 front, from below the jaw to the root of the neck, this hair is so long 

 as to form a conspicuous beard, becoming longer as we proceed 

 towards the last-named locality, where it is the best developed. 



About the muzzle, this hair is of a dark l)lackish-brown color, 

 which shades off as we advance towards tiie forehead, and again 

 becomes darker around the eye. 



The ears are completely covered with a coat of soft fur of a light 

 brownish-clay color, darkest at their bases, and shading off toward 

 their tips. The remainder of the hair of the head is of a fawn-brown, 

 which color extends down on the neck, but as we come on to the 

 body this changes to a dark chocolate-brown above, and a clay- 

 colored brown on the lower parts and abdomen. 




1891.] NATURAL SOIENCICS OF PHILADELI'HIA. 225 



The limbs are of about the same shade as the back, and the tail, 



which is well developed, is dark above and lighter beneath. No 

 pure white occurs upon either of the specimens. 



Left lateral view of the head of foetal Reindeer (/\. tarandus caribou). A much reduced 

 copy made by the author from his life-size colored figure. 



Unfortunately, the eyes were found to be nearly destroyed for any 

 purpose, and it was not only impossible to tell the color of the irides, 

 but the long keeping had rendered them useless for anatomical 

 description. 



All of the hoofs were found to be fairly well developed, except at 

 their antero-internal tips, where the horn-substance had been of such 

 a delicate and elementary character as to have become quite 

 shrunken and wrinkled by the action of the alcohol. 



These remarks apply equally well to the condition of the hoofs of 

 the posterior rudimentary digits, of which, as usual, there are two 

 at the back of each foot. 



Either external nostril is an aperture of considerable size, and 

 viewed from above it is parallel to the longitudinal axis of the body, 

 while seen upon lateral aspect it is oblique with its posterior com- 

 missure the hi<rher. 




226 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



Eyelashes are well pronounced on the eyelids, especially on the 

 superior ones, being best developed on the middle of the lid, and 

 becoming shorter as we proceed in the direction of either canthus. 



A portion of the umbilical cord remains attached to either one of 

 the specimens, but the placentae were not sent with them. 



The theca of the penis is attached to the abdomen to within 4'4 

 centimetres of the umbilical cord, beyond which it is pendant, and 

 in this young specimen was found to completely ensheathe the organ 

 which it contains. This theca is very well covered with rather 

 long hair of a bright clay color. 



At this age the testicles have not as yet descended and in the 

 subject now under consideration, the scrotal sack is small and 

 shrunken. All of the hoofs are of a clear horn color. 



Caton found the " tarsal gland large " in the adult of this species, 

 and says of it, that "on the Woodland Caribou, the tuft of hairs 

 over the tarsal gland also has its characteristics, which enable one 

 who has studied it to readily recognize it, though it is more 

 variable in size and shape than on the moose." 



" The hairs composing the tuft occupy a descending position. 

 From the upper end the tuft commences t6 rise up gradually, and so 

 continues to the lower end, where the elevation is greatest. The 

 length of this tuft is two inches, while the breadth is one inch and 

 three lines. The middle of this tuft is a yellowish-white, for a 

 horizontal extent of two inches, and a vertical extent of one inch 

 and three lines. The greatest diameter of the white portion is near 

 the lower border of the tuft. Below the white portion the tuft shades 

 down to the olive-brown of the rest of the leg. It occupies the 

 internal cavity of the hook posterior to the central part. It is not 

 quite so large in proportion to the size of the animal as on most of 

 the other species, neither is it much below them in relative size. It 

 is not so exactly alike on each individual of this species as it is on 

 the smaller species." ' 



1 Caton, John Dean: The Antelope and Deer of America, New York, 

 1877, pp. 2.53-54. Mr. Caton in comparing the above condition of these glands 

 with the European Reindeer found that they correspond in all essential particulars. 

 In this connection I would like to say that at the time my di>sections were 

 made upon these fawns, my library and my facilities for consulting books were 

 limited. Mivart's "Cat ;" the works of Owen, Flower, Oldfield Thomas, Chauveau, 

 Huxley, and a number of others were, however, in my field library. Doctor John 

 Dean Caton was at that time in Monterey, California, and I wrote him for a copy 

 of his excellent volume upon "The Antelope and Deer of America," just cited ; and 

 it is my desire to express to him here my grateful thanks for his having telegraphed 

 to his son at his home in Chicago, with the effect of placing a gift of the volume 

 very promptly in my hands for use. 




1891.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 227 



This description answers very well indeed, for both the position 

 and appearance of this tarsal gland and its tuft in the foetus. Here, 

 however, the gland is quite rudimentary and the tuft is proportion- 

 ately smaller. The color of the hair seems to agree with Mr. Caton's 

 description, also, — but so diminutive are these glands in this young 

 subject, that little can be learned about them from the exterior, and 

 a study of their internal structure falls within the domain of the 

 histologist rather than that of the anatomist. I have failed to dis- 

 cover any metatarsal glands or inter-digital ones in this subject. 

 The authority just quoted found them in the hind feet only, and if 

 they are present in the foetus in my hands, they are exceedingly 

 rudimentary. 



Mr. Caton calls attention, too, in the adult, to a white band sur- 

 rounding the top of each hoof; — this is likewise absent in my spec- 

 imens. The adults of this Caribou make considerable use of their 

 accessory hoofs, and these are " subject to muscular control ; " such a 

 condition seems to be foreshadowed in the foetus, especially in the 

 feet of the anterior limbs, where the accessory hoofs are large and 

 situated low down. 



Previous to cutting down upon this specimen, (b) I made careful 

 drawings of the tarsus and foot of the anterior and posterior limbs, 

 together with the form of the tail ; and these are here reproduced 

 as drawings illustrating this paper. Passing next to the consideration 

 of the female specimen we find that beyond the sexual differences as 

 pertaining to the organs of reproduction, and being rather smaller in 

 size, it presents us with no special departures in its general appear- 

 ance, either as regards color or form, from the male just described. 

 Perhaps the coat of the female may be a shade lighter, and the 

 hair down the median line of the throat beneath is not quite so con- 

 spicuously long. The vulva and external genitals have advanced 

 to a point of development that we might expect in a ruminant 

 of this tender age, and offers nothing for special remark. It is 

 fairly well covered by the tail. 



Most foetal mammals at this age show a pre-natal emaciation, 

 which, in these sj)ecimens, has been enhanced by the action of the 

 alcohol upon their delicate tissues and muscles. 



I did not think it necessary at the time to weigh either of these 

 specimens, for the reason, that they were saturated by the alcohol, 

 and that other changes must have taken place in them, which would 

 render such data of but little or no use. 




228 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1891. 



Such .strictures, however, do not apply to careful measurements 

 of external part?. Of these I have quite fully availed myself, and 

 they are presented in the subjoined table. 



Fig 2-A. Inner aspect of the right tarsus, metatarsus and foot of the anterior limb 

 of a foetal Reindeer (A*, tarandus caribou). 



B. Corresponding aspect and parts of the hinder limb; same specimen. 

 The tarsal gland is here seen covered by it> 1 ghter colored tuft of hair. 



C. Superior aspect of the tad of the same specimen. The under side of the 

 tail in this foetus is of a light brownish fawn color, while above, it is 

 rather of a chestnut shade. It is white on the lower side in the adult. 

 Figures all drawn by the author from the subjects, and much reduced. 



3{ea.surements of foetal specimens of JR. tarandus caribou (^Alco- 

 holics, eighteen days prior to hirth): — 



Total length including tail, 



Girth immediately behind the arms. 



Length of head, 




1891.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 229 



Length of nostril, 



Between the eyes, 



Height of ear, 



From anterior canthiis of eye to tip of nose, 



Between the ears. 



Girth of middle of neck, 



Length of tail, 



All the measurements were taken previous to making any of the 

 dissections. Other things being proportionately equal it will be 

 observed that "girth of neck " and "length of tail " conj^titute the 

 greatest differences. 



INIyological Notes. 



A complete dissection of the muscular system of these fawns was 

 not made by me for the reason, or rather reasons, that my labors at 

 the time were cut short by the operation of certain laws or customs 

 to which I was subservient, and over which I had no personal 

 control, and, which, at the same time, were hostile to the prosecution 

 of researches in anatomy. In the meantime, and at a later period, 

 this material passed out of my hands, as more general work engaged 

 me, and I returned it to the Museum. The description of such 

 muscles as I was enabled to work out, however, is fully worthy of 

 record as so many facts for the guidance of laborers in the same 

 fields in the future. Moreover, reindeer are being rapidly exter- 

 minated, and any notes upon their morphology are sure to be of 

 value in time to come. 



Dermal System of Muscles. — In this foetal specimen the group of 

 cutaneous muscles, whose function it is to act upon and agitate the 

 skin covering certain areas of the body, are as yet but feebly 

 developed. 



We can make out, however, without difficulty the following : — 



The platysma myoides is quite conspicuously developed, being 

 carried on the skin over the sides of the face as far forwards as the 

 nasal region where, no doubt, it assists in the twitching movements 

 of the skin about the nose. 



In the mid-anterior region of the neck it becomes quite thick, 

 especially in the line of integument which supports upon its outer 

 aspect the elongated hair there found in this animal. 



Its fibres become very pale as they spread out over the dorsal 

 aspect of the neck, and the entire muscle is lost and fades away as 

 we pass to the region of the shoulders and upper thoracic area. 




230 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



The panniculus carnosus, or that great muscular envelope the 

 function of which is to act upon the integuments of the entire trunk, 

 is here but moderately displayed. I dare say, though, that in the 

 adult reindeer this interesting muscle will be found fully as well 

 developed as it has been described by several anatomists of the 

 horse, and by others in the Felidce. 



In this fcetus it is best marked where it is intimately attached to 

 the lateral integuments of the thorax and abdomen, and over the 

 abdomen itself. 



In the median line from a short distance in front of the umbilicus 

 to a point well upon the sternum, it arises from a thin fascia more 

 or less intimately connected with the skin by its outer surface, and 

 to the external oblique by its inner. Posterior to this, the fibres 

 are in the skin, and radiate from the periphery of a circle surround- 

 ing, but lying without, the umbilicus. The posterior border of the 

 muscle is thick and extends toward the thigh, while for the rest, the 

 fibres spread out, closely connected with the skin, over the sides of 

 the lower thoracic region and the abdomen, and the lateral aspects 

 of the thigh. It does not seem to meet, in this young subject, the 

 fellow of the opposite side along the dorsum. But from its 

 rounded carneous margin, the fibres appear to merge into a del- 

 icate fascia, which extends over this region and down the sides of the 

 thigh. In the integuments overlying the sacral area, however, 

 the carneous fibres appear again, and can be faintly traced as far as 

 the root of the tail. 



Chauveau in describing the^ffljAntcwYus carnosus of the horse, says: 

 " This muscle has, besides, a very remarkable insertion into the 

 humerus, which was noticed by G. Cuvier in his ' Lecons d'Anatomie 

 comparee,' and which appears to have been omitted, at least so 

 far as Solipeds are concerned, in every treatise on veterinary 

 anatomy. The following is what we have often observed in this 

 respect : On reaching the posterior border of the ulnar mass of 

 muscles, the panniculus divides into two superposed layers ; one, 

 superficial, is carried to the muscles of the anterior member ; the 

 other, deep, soon terminates by an aponeurosis which is united to 

 the great pectoral muscle, and is bordered at its upper margin by a 

 nacreous aponeurotic band, which penetrates between the thorax and 

 the muscles of the arm to be fixed to the small trochanter.'" 



1 Chauveau, a. The Comparative Anat. of the Domesticated Animals, 2nd 



Ed. 1884, N. Y. ; trans, and ed. by G. Fleming, p. 187. 




1891.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 231 



A very similar arrangement I find to exist in this foetal reindeer, 

 but its seems to me that the dermal system can only claim that 

 layer which is here confined to the skin, and which by its fascial 

 extensions it has the power of twitching over the anterior and upper 

 part of the chest and on the fore-limb. Intimately connected 

 with this, and with the great pectoral over which it lies, is, to be 

 sure, another layer that here seems to be entitled to rank with the 

 more imjwrtant muscles of the front of the chest. It arises from 

 the fascia over the median line of the sternum, and is closely 

 connected with the skin above, which covers it. We find its inser- 

 tion, however, not upon the small trochanter, but upon the shaft of 

 the humerus, at the interno-anterior aspect of the summit of its distal 

 third, above the internal condyle. Before arriving at the point of ~ 

 insertion, the fibres of the muscle converge to form a flattened 

 fasciculus, which passes down between the muscles of the arm. Un- 

 doubtedly by its contraction this muscle can, in connection with the 

 true dermal layer alluded to above, and with which it is associated, 

 act upon the skin of these parts, but I am strongly inclined to 

 believe that it represents one of the pectoral muscles as they have 

 been described in the cat. 



Mivart in his anatomy of this animal, divides the pedoralis into 

 Jive portions, and of the insertion of the second portion he says, " It 

 is inserted into the outer side of the deltoid ridge of the humerus, 

 and extends down (between the biceps and brachialis anticus) to the 

 summit of the lowest third of the humerus." In this reindeer the 

 outer margin of this muscle for its proximal two-thirds is attached 

 to the fascia dividing the muscles at the inner side of the brachium. 



Il is very evident that in the adult this muscle will act power- 

 fully both on the humerus and the anterior chest walls, while, 

 when the animal stands at rest, the action of its more superficial 

 fibres can be made to agitate the integuments of the parts. Be this 

 as it may, I will not enter upon a second description of the muscle 

 here, though I think strictly speaking it should be regarded as an 

 auxiliary pectoral, and not as one of the dermal system proper. 



Of Certain Muscles of the Head. — Considering the tender age of 

 the subject before us, the musculature of the ear, eye, mouth, and 

 face is very well developed. 



1 Mivart St. George, F. R. S. The Cat, New York, 1881, page 145. 

 This work I find lo be an exceedingly useful one to those engaged upon dissections 

 of the Mammalia. 




232 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



The nnjrtiformis muscle seems to be unsually large, and of an 

 irregular quadrilateral form. It arises from the side of the nostril, 

 and being firmly connected with the skin, its fibres descend down- 

 ward and backward to be lost in the dense tissues of the upper lip. 



The orbicularis oris is, as a sphincter of the mouth or lips, a very 

 feebly developed muscle here, and great care is required, to trace its 

 delicate fibres in the tissues where they lie hidden. 



The levator lahii superioris alteque nasi on the other hand is 

 perhaps the most conspicuously developed of all the facial muscles 

 in this young deer. It arises from the malar and superior maxillary 

 bones, and its fibres forming a strong flat muscle, pass directly for- 

 wards, closely connected with the Integument, and above the 

 alveolar process of the upper jaw, to become blended with the fibres 

 of the orbicularis oris in the upper lij), and are lost upon the ala of 

 the nostril. 



The orbicularis palpebrarum is also pronounced, but presents 

 us with nothing peculiar, or any marked departure from that muscle 

 as we find it among the deer generally. I have, however, failed to 

 make out satisfactorily an occipito-froidalis, a levator anguli oris, a 

 pi/ramidalis, and a number of other less imj)ortant muscles of the 

 face. In the adult, where through use they had become more 

 clearly defined, no doubt a number of them could be traced, and I 

 see that Professor Mivart has worked them out in an admirable 

 manner in the cat, but they need not further concern us here. 



The musculature of the eye and ear, is, considering the age of the 

 s])ecimen, very completely advanced, and I suspect strongly developed 

 in the case of the former structure in adult life. 



The Atfolentes auriculnm are a handsomely developed pair of 

 muscles that nearly meet each other on the median line of the skull 

 between the external ears. By their action these appendages of the 

 organ of hearing may be powerfully drawn toward each other. 



A strong zygomato-auricularis is also seen as we remove the 

 integuments of the head. It arises from the zygoma, and passing 

 backwards and upwards is inserted upon the outer aspect of the 

 pinna. 



Other representations of the group of muscles that control the 

 varied movements of the external ear are easily traced, and in most 

 cases well defined. 



A buccinator can be made out as we trace its delicate fibres in the 

 sides of the lips, and as far back as the alveolar processes of the 

 jaws extend. 




189].] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 233 



As usual iu mammals, the masseter is divided in two layers, the 

 fibres of the outer one passing obliquely backwards, w^hile those of 

 the deep portion being more or less vertical. 



The muscle arises from the zygoma for its infero-anterior portion, 

 and from the malar bone. Passing down in a way already indicated, 

 they become inserted into the outer aspect of the ascending ramus 

 of the lower jaw, completely filling the concavity there existing. 



A temporal muscle is no larger, if as large, as the masseter. Either 

 one fills the shallow temporal fossa at the side of the skull, and 

 measuring the distance between their nearest points to each other, 

 over the vault of the skull, with a flexible tape measure, I find them 

 to be separated by an interval of seven centimetres. The tendon of 

 a temporal is inserted as usual into the coronoid process of the 

 mandible, entirely .upon its mesial side. 



The pterygoids are well-developed muscles, but present nothing 

 worthy of especial note in these foetal specimens of our reindeer. 



16 




234 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



NOTICE OF SOME ENTOZOA. 

 BY PROF. JOSEPH LEIDY. 

 Distoma crassum Busk. Cobbold : Proc. Linn. Soc, 1860, vol. V, p. 5. 



Mr. Busk, an English surgeon, in 1843 announced the occurrence, 

 in the intestine of a Lascar or Hindoo seaman who died in London, 

 of a large species of Fluke for which he suggested the name of Dis- 

 toma crassum. Fourteen specimens obtained ranged from 4 to 6 

 cm. long by 1*7 to 2 cm. broad. The same parasite has since been 

 reported as occurring in Chinese and in Europeans living in China.^ 

 In our Proceedings for 1873, p. 364, I gave notice of a specimen 

 from a Chinese boy, which I then supposed to be a larger individ- 

 ual than usual of the more common D. hepaticum. 



On several occasions I have had the opportunity of examining 

 some large Flukes from the liver of our Deer, Cervus Virginianus, 

 and the Domestic Ox, which appear to be identical with the D. 

 crass^im. The specimens preserved in alcohol, and submitted to me, 

 are as follow : 



Six individuals, obtained from the liver of a Doe, in the 

 Adirondack Mts. of New York, by Dr. R. A. F. Penrose. These 

 range from 5 to 6 cm. long by 1'5 to 2-5 cm. broad, and I'O to 2*5 

 mm. thick. 



Three individuals from the liver of a Calf, at Hot Springs, Ark., 

 obtained by Dr. G. W. Lawrence. The specimens much contracted 

 and hardened by strong alcohol, measure 3'5 cm. long by 2 to 2*4 

 cm. broad. An imperfect one is from 3 to 4 mm. thick at the 

 broken border ; white for half the thickness dorsally and black 

 ventrally. 



Two individuals recently received from Texas, from Dr. M. Fran- 

 cis, Veterinary Surgeon, who v.'rites that the monster Flukes occur 

 there in cattle in limited number, " in the liver-tissue and not in 

 the bile-ducts like the Distoma hepaticum. The specimens measure 

 3"5 and 4 cm. long by 2 and 2"5 cm. broad. 



The Flukes from all three hosts accord in character except size, 

 and in many points appear closely related with the D. hepaticum. 

 They are elliptical in outline and of greater proportionate breadth 

 than in the latter. The oral pole is conical but not abruptly pro- 

 longed as in that species. The caudal pole is broadly rounded and 



1 Cobbold, Parasites, 1879, 21. 




1891.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 235 



entire or medially slightly emarginate. The dorsal surface is con- 

 vex, smooth and cream-colored ; the ventral surface flat or slightly 

 concave, minutely granulate or brownish margined with black, due 

 to the vitelline organs shining through. The oral and ventral acet- 

 abula are from 4 to 5 mm. apart ; the former oral about I'o mm. 

 wide ; the latter slightly larger. Genital aperture midway between 

 the acetabula. Penis in some individuals exserted as a short tort- 

 uous papilla. The sides of the body, extending from near the 

 head to the tail, occupied by intensely black dendritic vitelline 

 organs. The body is less tenacious than in D. hepaticum, is soft 

 and easily broken. 



Accompanying the monster Flukes from Texas, were eighteen 

 specimens of the ordinary Liver-Fluke, Distonia hepatmim, up to 

 3'5 cm. long by 9 mm. broad, which Dr. Francis observes are very 

 destructive to Cattle and Sheep in some parts of Texas. 



The facts related of the recent occurrence of the large Fluke in 

 the Deer and Ox, in different portions of the United States, would 

 impress one with the idea that the parasite is common with us, but in 

 view of its conspicuous character and its not having been previously 

 noticed such is probably not the case. May there be any relation 

 between the occurrence of the parasite in this country and the influx 

 of a Chinese population? The facts seem curiously coincidental 

 with the first discovery of Trichina in man in England and its sub- 

 sequent discovery in the hog in this country. The Guinea-worm is 

 believed to have been introduced into tropical America with the 

 Kegro from Africa. 



Sclerostomum armatum Rudoljihi, var. major Diesing: Sy?t. Helm, II, 304. 



Dr. Edward Landis recently submitted to my examination three 

 worms found coiled in as many thick-walled cysts, in the lung of a 

 Horse. These appear to me to be the larger variety of the Scleras- 

 tomum armatum, usually found occupying the intestines of the same 

 animal. The specimens, all females, are from 25 to 30 mm. long 

 by 1"5 mm, thick at the fore part. The body is robust, cylindrical, 

 more tapering behind, brownish-red, annularly striate; head dome- 

 like, defined by an annular stria; mouth large, surrounded by a 

 prominent annular lip marked by eight radii ; tail short, conical, 

 obtuse. 




236 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



Ascaris anoura Dujardin: Hist. Nat. des Helminthes, 1845, 221. Leidy : Proc. 

 A. N. ?;. 1866.51. 



Ascaris attenuata Molin : Prod, faunae helminth, venetae, I860, 283. 

 Ascaris rubicunda Schnyder : Monog. T. Nematodon, 1866, 42., 



From the stomach of a Python, P. mohirus, which recently died 

 in our Zoological Garden, Dr. John L. Hatch obtained a large mass 

 of translucent red and green worms, which were submitted to my 

 examination. These appear to be the Ascaris anoura of Dujardin, 

 subsequently described under other names by Molin and Schnyder. 

 The worms for the most part penetrated the recesses of three larger 

 tumefactions of the mucous membrane of the stomach. The greater 

 number of the w^orms Avere immature, translucent, of a blood-red 

 color, with a darker intestine shining through, and ranging from 

 6 to 7 cm. long by about 0'6 mm. thick. The mature females 

 ranged from 10 to 20 cm. long by 1*5 to 2*5 mm. thick. The males 

 ranged from 7 to 16 cm. long by 0"875 to 2 mm. thick. 



The body of the worms was most narrowed in advance, from pale 

 red to nearly colorless in the largest and deeper to blood red in the 

 smaller ones; with the intestine shining through of variable pea 

 green to greenish-brown and dark brown in the latter, and with the 

 tortuous ovaries and testes milk white. Cephalic extremity lighter 

 colored, strongly tapering and with distinctly trilobate mouth. 

 Tail very short, conical, the length about equal the breadth at base. 

 The male of more slender proportions, with the caudal end incurved 

 and the tail more pointed, with a row on each side of ten preanal 

 papillae, one on each side of the anus and two rows of two on each 

 side of the tail. Spicules of the penis long, linear, curved and 

 equal. Pharynx long, cylindrical clavate ; rectum very short. 



Worms closely agi'ceing with those of the Python I have observed 

 from two of our common snakes, the Hog-nose Snake, Heterodon 

 platyrhinus, and the other, from the accompanying description, 

 supposed to be the Milk-snake, Ophibolus triangulus. A portion 

 of the stomach of the latter, preserved with the worms, show them 

 to have the same habits as those of the Python ; partially occupy- 

 ing: the recesses of a tumefaction of the mucous membrane. 




1891.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 237 



NOTE ON MESOZOIC MAMMALIA. 

 BY O. C. MARSH. 



I have recently received from Prof. H. F. Osborn a pamphlet 

 entitled " A Review of the Cretaceous Mammalia," which is intended 

 as a criticism on two of my papers, and is the latest addition to his 

 publications on Mesozoic mammals. This review contains no new 

 facts, and is mainly an application of the author's theories, which 

 may in part prove to be true, but at present are without substantial 

 basis. To attempt to refute all the assumptions he makes would 

 involve a long discussion of known Mesozoic mammals, and take 

 time from more important work. A brief notice of a few points, 

 therefore, must suffice for the present. 



The author of this review has never collected any Mesozoic 

 mammals, has no specimens of the kind, and has only seen a part of 

 those belonging to others, who have shown them to him as a matter 

 of courtesy, in some cases even when an investigation was intended 

 or in progress. Of more than a thousand specimens of Cretaceous 

 mammals on which my investigations are based, he has not seen a 

 single one, and no others are known except a few fragments. Of 

 several hundred specimens of Jurassic mammals which I have 

 secured in the AVest, he has seen perhaps one-tenth, while of other 

 Mesozoic mammals from this country, he cannot have seen in all 

 more than a half dozen specimens. 



Prof Osborn's qualifications for discussing Cretaceous mammals 

 may be fairly judged from his papers on other Mesozoic mammals. 

 One or two examples will make this evident. 



He began this work, in 1886, by describing two specimens of 

 Dromathermm Emmons, and making a new genus of one of them, 

 on insufficient grounds. He criticised Emmons' work, especially 

 one figure, but this he subsequently modified. His own figures of 

 one of these fossils agree neither with each other nor with the spec- 

 imen, as a recent comparison shows. 



He next turned his attention to the Mesozoic mammals in the 

 British Museum, beginning with Tritylodon, described and figured 

 by Owen. Again Prof Osborn did not agree with the original 

 authority, but announced that a point of " remarkable interest" 




238 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



had not been appreciated by Owen, namely, a large parietal fora- 

 men, showing that " the primitive Mammalia, of this family at 

 least, had a pineal eye of some functional size and value," which 

 fact "adds to the rapidly accumulating evidence for the reptilian 

 ancestry of the mammals." A reference to the specimen itself 

 proved that there was no foundation for the announcement, and 

 Prof Osborn has since in part corrected it. (Science, vol. ix, pp. 

 92, 114 and 538, 1887.) 



The results of Prof Osborn's further study of the Mes(Tzoic mam- 

 mals in the British Museum were not considered important by 

 some of the best authorities there, and some of his observations they 

 disproved, in my presence, by referring to the fossils themselves. 

 His figures of these specimens, moreover, are not accurate, and in 

 some cases are misleading, as a single example will show. In his 

 Mesozoic Mammalia, Plate YIII, he gives a new figure of the type 

 of Phaseolotherium, but a comparison with the original specimen 

 shows that this figure is erroneous in at least four important points ; 

 namely, the first incisor ; the crown of the last molar, which is 

 wanting in the specimen ; the positions of the dental foramen and 

 of the mylohyoid groove. His method of regarding different isolated 

 specimens as identical, and making a " composite" drawing of them 

 as representing a single type, has led him into serious errors. This 

 method, which belongs rather to metaphysics than to natural science, 

 Prof Osborn has again used in the present review, and with no 

 better results. 



This long review purports to discuss my first and second papers 

 on Cretaceous mammals. The first thing that strikes the careful 

 reader is the title he gives to these papers. My own title was a 

 simple one, " Discovery of Cretaceous Mammalia," and it is only 

 fair to expect, in an elaborate review, that the title, at least, will 

 be correctly quoted. Instead of this, Prof Osborn has added two 

 other words, giving it a different meaning and quoting it as: — 

 "The Discovery of the Cretaceous Mammalia." He read this 

 review in no less than three different cities, and published an 

 abstract elsewhere, yet apparently had no time to read my title of 

 four words carefully enough to quote it correctly. A small matter, 

 perhaps, but proof positive of careless work. 



The next point to be noticed is, that ray order AUotheria is rejected 

 as not having been defined, and a later term, Multituhercxdata, is 

 adopted because it has been defined. This direct statement of Prof 




1891.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 239 



Osborn is incorrect, as my order was defined when proposed in 1880 

 (Am. Jour. Sci., vol. xx, p. 239). The cumbersome terra, Multi- 

 tuherculata, was not defined when proposed by Cope in 1884, but 

 Prof. Osborn kindly attempted this in 1888. His definition, un- 

 fortunately, does not include some characteristic forms of the group, 

 but takes in accurately the genus Mastodon, although this great 

 Proboscidian can hardly be considered a Marsupial. 



By way of instruction. Prof. Osborn indicates what he terms " the 

 main characters of the dentition of the Mesozoic mammals in general, 

 and some characters which enable us to distinguish between the 

 teeth of mammals and those of reptiles and fishes." This is a most 

 promising statement, but loses some of its force when Ave find that it 

 has not saved him from precisely these mistakes, either in his previous 

 papers or in the present review, as I show later. 



He is scarcely more fortunate in his announcement of what he 

 regards as the well-known characters of the teeth of one group, the 

 Allotheria. I have probably seen all the Mesozoic mammals 

 examined by Prof Osborn in Europe, and likewise quite a number 

 of others, including the type of Stereoffiiathus. He is certainly wrong 

 in several of his main conclusions, and in others there are many 

 facts against him. 



A more correct restatement of some of the characters of this group 

 would be as follows : 



(1.) No true Plagianlacidce are known with three rows of 

 tubercles on the upper molars. 



(2.) No Allotheria are known with certainty to have three rows 

 of tubercles on the lower molars. 



A careful study, moreover, of the known specimens of the true 

 Plagiaulacidce would have shown him the strong probability, at 

 least, that the genus Bolodon, which he makes the type of a dis- 

 tinct family, is based on the upper jaws of Plagiaulax ; also, the 

 probability, as I have before suggested, that the type of Stereo- 

 gnathus, of which he makes another of his numerous families, is an 

 upper jaw, although described as a lower one. 



Bearing in mind these points. Prof. Osborn's main criticisms are 

 seen to be without foundation, and the errors largely his own. By 

 substituting theory for the actual study of well-preserved specimens, 

 he has placed on record the fact that he seems unable to tell upper 

 from lower teeth in jNIesozoic mammals, or the teeth of reptiles 

 and fishes from those of mammals. 




240 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



There is now conclusive evidence that the Cretaceous molar teeth 

 with three rows of crescents belong to the upper series, as I de- 

 scribed them. Prof. Osborn's reference of these to the lower jaw is 

 based merely on theory with only conjecture to support it. The 

 same fundamental error runs through most of his review, and meas- 

 ures the value of his criticism. 



Another unfortunate error of Prof Osborn was mistaking the 

 tooth of a Cretaceous reptile for a premolar of a mammal, and not 

 only describing and figuring it as such, but making this a basis for 

 using, even in this review, a generic name (Menisco'essus) against 

 well-known laws of nomenclature. This supposed premolar he fig- 

 ured and described in his Mesozoic Mammalia, p. 218, and has else- 

 where strongly defended its mammalian character. There is not a 

 particle of evidence of this, as every one familiar with similar spec- 

 imens knows. 



Notwithstanding this mistake. Prof Osborn ventures to assert 

 in this review, that a tooth which I described and figured as a molar 

 of a mammal, Stagodon, has but a single fang, does " not resemble 

 the teeth of any known mammal," and that the genus was "founded 

 upon reptilian or ichthyopsidan teeth." I distinctly stated that 

 this tooth has two fangs, and the bases of these were indicated in 

 one of my figures. Moreover, several well-preserved specimens, 

 since obtained, show two distinct roots and other features which 

 prove these teeth mammalian beyond doubt. 



In his Mesozoic Mammalia, p. 221, Prof. Osborn describes and 

 figures as a premolar a sj^ecimen which is now almost certainly 

 known to pertain to a fish, and not to a mammal. I have a very 

 similar specimen from the same locality, which is pronounced the 

 same species by those who have examined both. This I purchased 

 many years ago of a well-known collector in Stuttgart, who called 

 it a mammal tooth. When investigating Mesozoic mammals later, 

 I examined this specimen with care, and found it to be made up of 

 two portions of fish teeth (Hybodus) neatly cemented together, 

 making four cones on a quadrate base, as in the fossil Prof. Obsorn 

 described. A friend who saw my specimen has since sent me from 

 Europe drawings of a third supposed mammal tooth from the same 

 locality (Diegerloch), which he considers the same as mine. The 

 drawings are characteristic, and indicate another specimen of 

 apparently the same sort. Others are probably in existence, as the 




1891.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 241 



demand for Mesozoic mammals is great, and the supply has hitherto 

 been limited. 



One or two points more should be mentioned about Prof. Osborn's 

 Avork on Mesozoic mammals ; namely, his replacing, on insufficient 

 grounds, scientific names, especially those of families and genera, by 

 other names of his own ; also, using the figures of other authors with- 

 out the usual credit. As an example of the latter, I may cite this 

 use of no less than five of my figures of Jurassic mammals, in his 

 memoir on Mesozoic Mammalia. 



Prof Osborn in his review alludes to " the extremely complex and 

 confusing dentition " of some Mesozoic mammals, and of the truth 

 of this statement his own papers afford many illustrations besides 

 those here mentioned. What this perplexing subject really needs, 

 however, is more facts and less theory. Believing this, I have 

 endeavored to secure new facts by long and laborious explorations, 

 hoping in this way to clear up some of the confusion which so 

 puzzles fireside naturalists. The 1,500 specimens of Mesozoic 

 mammals I have thus secured, fragmentary though most of them 

 are, will, I trust, prove of some service in this work, although their 

 full investigation has been delayed by other duties. 



No one who has earnest work to do can afford to spend time in 

 the ungracious task of pointing out errors in the work of others. 

 For this reason I have hitherto said nothing about Prof. Osborn's 

 papers on jMesozoic mammals, intending to wait until my own mem- 

 oir, for which I have collected so much material, should make it 

 my duty to review the whole subject. The injustice of his criticism 

 on my preliminary work while in progress made a brief reply nec- 

 essary ; the full discussion, I must still reserve for my memoir. 




242 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



FOSSIL FAUNAS IN CENTRAL IOWA. 

 BY CHARLES R. KEYE8. 



Since the appearance of preliminary statements on the Lower 

 Coal Measures of Central lowa^ some time ago, considerable 

 additional material has been obtained, which presents some instruct- 

 ive considerations concerning the distribution of ancient life through 

 that region. In the article alluded to thirty-five genera and nearly 

 sixty species are mentioned. The present paper increases these 

 figures to 51 and 84 respectively. There still remain many 

 forms not yet sufficiently worked out for incorporation here. The 

 interest, however, lies not so much in the numerical increase of the 

 species discovered, as in the information imparted in regard to both 

 the geologic and geographic range of the various types within, and 

 without, the limits of the state ; and in the exhibition, in many 

 forms, of structural features which have hitherto been more or less 

 obscure. 



A recent geological reconnaissance of the locality has disclosed a 

 large number of stations where animal life was at one time very 

 prolific. Several new horizons have been definitely made out, on 

 account of which the distribution in time of the various forms is 

 capable of being traced with greater accuracy than has hitherto 

 been possible. 



In the earlier studies relating to the fauna of the Des ]\Ioines 

 Coal Measures three striking facts were emphasized in particular. 

 These may be summarized as follows : 



(1.) In those zoological groups having an optimum habitat ma- 

 rine, there Avas not only a fewness of species but also an extreme 

 paucity of individuals. 



(2.) The Brachiopods, though well represented in both genera 

 and species, were not as proportionately abundant as might be ex- 

 pected when it is remembered that this type of life had now nearly 

 reached its greatest expansion and culmination. 



(3.) The fauna was predominantly moUuscan — more than three- 

 fourths of the entire number of species being gasteropods and 1am- 

 ellibranchs. 



The later observations fully corroborate the suggestions pre- 

 viously made and add further testimony as to the correctness of the 

 conclusions already set forth. 



1 Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., Phila., 1888, pp. 222-247. 




1891.J NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 243 



Before passing to specific considerations, a brief sketch of the 

 stratigraphy is perhaps necessary for a better understanding of the 

 relations of the several faunas of the different horizons. A some- 

 what detailed section of the rocks as exposed at the locality in 

 question, is represented in the subjoined scheme : 



General Section of Rocks at Des Moines. 



Feet. In. 

 26. Variegated clayey shales, ..... 13 



25. Bluelimestone, nodular, impure, weathering brown (F), 8 

 24. Variegated shales, ...... 8 



23. Bituminous shales, with concretionary masses below (F), 3 



22. Coal, 2 



21. Light yellow and drab shales .... 7 



20. Variegated clayey shales ..... 4 



19. Kodular limestone, earthy, passing in places into 



marl, highly fossiliferous (F), ... 06 

 18. Light colored and variegated clay-shales, . . 5 

 17. Impure lim.estone, like Xo. 19, but not so fossilifer- 

 ous (F), 10 



16. Light colored, clayey shales, .... 5 



15. Soft micaceous sandstone, concretionary in places, 



and passing into sandy shales elsewhere, . . 25 

 14. Light colored shales, ...... 4 



13. Impure coal, ....... 2 



12. Light and dark-colored clay-shales, ... 20 

 11. Bituminous shales, highly fossiliferous (F.), . 8 



10. Coal, 2 



9. Fire clay, ........ 1 



8. Variegated and sandy shales, . . . . 15 



7. Sandstone, massive, ...... 6 



6. Coal, 4 



5. Fire clay, ....... 2 



4. Variegated shales, sandy in places, ... 30 

 3. Bituminous shales (F.), ..... 5 



2. Coal, 5 



1. Fire clay, 1 



The beds above number 15 have been referred to the middle coal 

 measures by St. John. They carry three thin bands of blue earthy 

 limestone, nodular or fragmentary and weathering brown. Usually 

 fossils are to be found in them, often quite abundantly. About a 

 score of species have been thus far recognized from these layers. 

 These calcareous bands are quite persistent over a wide area. The 

 lower two are only five or six feet apart, while the third is about 

 twenty-five feet higher. The clayey material between them appears 




244 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



to decrease in thickness towards tlie southwestward. The triple 

 calcareous bed exposed at the water's level on the Raccoon river at 

 Commerce, eight miles from Des Moines mav possibly represent the 

 three bands. At that place they are only a few inches apart. In 

 the immediate vicinity of Des Moines the following species have 

 been obtained from these layers. It is to be noted that they are all 

 typical marine forms ; and that nearly all of them also occur in the 

 dark shales of the lower coal measures, as has already been fully 

 shown elsewhere, but their numbers and distribution in the lower 

 horizons are very limited. 



Rhombopora lepidodendroides Meek. Productus semireticulatus Martin. 



Lophophyllum prolificum McC. Productus muricatus N. & P. 



Cyathophyllum torquium Owen. Productus cora d'Orb. 



Eupachycrinus cragini M. & W. Productus costata Sowerby. 



Synocladia biseriaiis Swallow. Spirifera lineata Martin. 



Chonetes flemingi N. & P. Spirifera camerata Martin. 



Chonetes mesoloba N. & P. Spirifera planoconvexa Shumard. 



Rhynchonella uta Marcou. Spirifera kentuckensis Shumard. 



Retzia mormoni Marcou. Streptorliynchus crenistria Phillips. 

 Athyris argentea (Shepard.) 



The Middle Coal Measures at Des Moines cannot be well sepa- 

 rated from the lower member, and the hitherto recognized line of 

 demarkation is perfectly arbitrary. At best the group is 'of very 

 doubtful utility. The thickness of the strata referred to the Mid- 

 dle Coal Measures in Iowa is in reality considerably less than was 

 at one time supposed ; while the vertical extent of the Lower Coal 

 Measures has been found to be very much greater than it was regarded 

 by White and others, who placed it at about two hundred feet. 



A carefully made section was recently constructed along the line 

 of the Des Moines River from Harvey in the east-central part of 

 Marion county to Des Moines and from the latter place to De Soto 

 along the Raccoon river — a distance of sixty-five miles. The detail 

 of the strata from the top of the St. Louis limestone to the base of the 

 UpperCoalMeasureshavethusbeen rather minutely worked out across 

 that portion of the state referred to. In addition a large number 

 of fossils were obtained from the several horizons, so that the verti- 

 cal distribution of a large number of species was accurately deter- 

 mined within the limits of the region passed through. That part 

 of the section in the immediate vicinity of the capital city of Iowa 

 received particular attention with reference to the faunal zones. 



It is to be noted that in the Lower Coal Measures of the region 

 there is a marked absence of calcareous layers and for this reason 

 the great paucity in the remains of truly marine forms is very 




1891.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 245 



marked. The sandy material is also rather limited ; and in it occur 

 no organic remains except those of a few plants. Argillaceous 

 deposits make up by far the greatest proportion of the formation. 

 The clay-shales are ashen, drab or black in color ; sometimes also 

 red, yellow and blue. The light-colored shales are for the most 

 part unfossiliferous, though occasionally fern impressions and casts 

 of Lepidodeudron roots are found. The dark colored bituminous 

 varieties on the other hand are not unfrequently abundantly charged 

 with fossils. As it has been shown elsewhere the coal of Central 

 Iowa is deposited in numerous lenticular masses of greater or less 

 extent. These beds may have a horizontal measurement from a few 

 hundred yards to several miles. Usually a black shale of a few 

 inches or a few feet in thickness immediately overlies the coal basins. 

 It is these particular layers that are most highly fossiliferous. In 

 many cases brilliant pyrite has replaced the hard parts of the fossils ; 

 but in others the calcareous matter has remained perfectly preserved, 

 the pure white shells forming a striking contrast with the black 

 matrix. 



Fusulina cylindrica Fisher. 



Fusuliiia cylitidrica ¥\sh&r, 1837: Oryct. du Gouv. de Moscou, p. 126, pi. 

 xviii, figs. \-o. 



Fiisidina cylindrica Owe'n, 1852: Geol. Sur. Wise, Iowa and Minn., p. 130. 



Fusulina cylindrica Meek. & Hayden, 1859: Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., Philada., 

 p. 24. 



This is the first recognition of protozoan remains in the Lower 

 Coal Pleasures of Des Moines. Their occurrence thus far has been 

 confined to a single horizon, which is just below the lower member 

 of the so-called middle section of the Iowa Upper carboniferous. 

 The species is very widely distributed both in time and space, in 

 consequence of which many varietal phases would be expected. 

 There is, therefore, apparently very good grounds, as has been sug- 

 gested by White, for regarding the various forms described as Fusu- 

 lina depressa, F. ventricosa,^F. robusta, F. gracilis, etc., identical 

 with Fisher's species ; the slight alleged differences being due rather 

 to local variations in environment than to specific differentiations. 



Archseocidaris edgarensis Worthen & Miller. 



Archceocidaris edgarensis Worthen & Miller, 1883 : Geol. Sur. Illinois, vol. VII, 

 p. 337, pi. XXX, fig. 15. 



A few primary spines, which correspond in all particulars with 

 those noted by "NVorthen and Miller from the Upper Coal Measures 

 of Edgar county, Illinois, have been obtained in concretionary lay- 

 ers overlying a coal seam near the upper part of the Lower Coal 




246 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1891. 



division. Tiie echinoid remains from tlie Upper Carboniferous of 

 America are exceedingly meagre, and much additional material is 

 needed for comparative studies. The urchins of the Lower Carbon- 

 iferous are much more satisfactory, but the great richness of the 

 crinoidal faunas, that are always associated, has usually caused 

 them to be, for the most part, overlooked. 



As might be readily inferred, the remains of echinoderms are of 

 rare occurrence in a locality having the lithological charactei's such 

 as are presented in the district under consideration. Previous to 

 the present announcement, the only known fossils of this group 

 were a few segments of the stem and several brachial plates of Eu- 

 -pachycrinus. The latter were highly nodose but the nodosity was 

 not extended into such long spines as in E. cragini which was found 

 in limestone bands at the base of the Middle Coal Measures of the 

 same locality. 



Chonetes Isevis Keyes. 



Chonetes glabra Geinitz, 1866 : Carb. und Dyas in Nebraska, p. 60, t. iv, figs. 

 15-18. (Not Hall, 18b7.) 



Chonetes glabra Meek, 1872: U. S. Geoh Sur., Nebraska, p. 171, pi. iv, fig. 

 10; and pi. VIII, figs. 8a, 8b. 



Chonetes Levis Keyes, 1888: Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., Phila., p. 229, pi. xii, 

 figs. 8a, 3b. 



Chonetes geinitzianus Miller, 1890 : N. A. Geol. and Pala;. p. 389. 



In the original diagnosis of Ch. Icevis the statement was made 

 that it w^as probably the same shell as was described by Geinitz as 

 Ch. glabra from the Upper Coal Measures of Nebraska. At that 

 time comparisons could not be made to establish the identity of the 

 two forms with any degree of certainty. The evidence now at hand, 

 leaves little room for doubt in this respect. Geinitz's name, how- 

 ever, had been preoccupied by Hall in 1857 for a species from the 

 Upper Helderberg. Chonetes Icevis being the next available term 

 must, therefore, be adopted ; though Miller has more recently pro- 

 posed the name Ch. geinitzianus foi^the same shell, which title, 

 of course, must be regarded as a synonym. 



Since the discovery at Des Moines of the eight specimens used 

 in the original description large numbejs of this species have been 

 found near the same locality, scattered through a bed of bituminous 

 shale fifteen feet in thickness. These are associated with its near 

 congener Ch. mesoloha. The difference between the two species, as 

 pointed out in the remarks accompanying the description of Ch. 

 Icevis, holds good throughout the entire series collected. Inasmuch 

 as some of the specimens often show faint, radiating striae it has 




1891.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 247 



been suggested that these shells are merely water-worn individuals 

 of other species. This, however, does not appear to be the case, 

 since large numbers of Ch. Icevis and Ch. mesoloba are found inti- 

 mately associated ; and in the latter the radiating stride are very 

 sharply defined and well preserved. Besides the conditions under 

 which the shells existed show conclusively that all influences of wave 

 action were absent during the burial of these organisms. 



According to Meek this species has been recognized in boreal 

 America on the shores of the Youkon river of Alaska. 



Chonetes flemingi Norwood and Pratten. 



Chonetesjleiningi Norwood & Pratten, 1855 : Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci., Phila., vol. 

 Ill, p. 26, pi. ii, figs. 5a,-5e. 



Chonetes verneuiliana Norwood & Pratten, 1855: Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci., Phila., 

 vol. Ill, p. 26, pi. li, figs. 6a,-e. 



Chonetes verneuiliana Shumard, 1855 : Geol. Sur. Missouri, p. 216. 



Chottetes vertieuiliana Meek, 1872: U. S. Geol. Sur. Nebraska, p. 170, pi. i, 

 fig. 10a,-b. 



There seems to be but little doubt that the two forms, considered 



specifically distinct, of Norwood and Pratten and by them called 



Chonetes flemingi and Ch. verneuiliana are identical. Careful 



comparisons of a large number of these forms from various localities 



in central Iowa show every conceivable gradation between the two 



so-called species. The peculiarities of Ch. verneuiliana as oppo.sed 



to those of Gh. flemingi appear to be chiefly due to local difterences 



of station. Moreover, the types of Norwood and Pratten's Ch. 



verneuiliana seem to be somewhat abnormal in their growth and 



therefore do not present the most characteristic features of the form. 



Rhynchonella uta (Marcou). 



Terebratula uta Marcou, 1858 : Geol. N. A., p. 51, pi. vi, fig. 21a,-e. 



Kh. (Camarophorid) osagensis Swallow, 1858: Trans. St. Louis Acad. Sci., 

 vol. I, ]). 219. 



Camarophoria swalloviana^\i\xxn':^xdL,\^h%: Trans. St. Louis Acad. Sci., vol. 

 I, p. 394, pi. xi,fig. la. e. 



Camarophoria globuhna Geinitz, 1866: Garb, und Dyas in Nebraska, p. 38, t. 

 iii, fig. 5 (not C. globuhna Phillips, 1834). 



Khynchonella osagensis Meek, 1872 : U. S. Geol. Sur. Nebraska, p. 179, pi. i, 

 fig. 9. 



Rhynchonella osagensis Meek & Worthen, 1873 : Geol. Sur. Illinois, vol. \ , p. 

 571, pi. xxvi, fig. 22. 



Rhynchonella uta White, 1875 : E.\p. and Sur. 100 merid., vol. IV, pt. i, 

 p. 120, pi. viii, fig. 4. 



The form under consideration is one of very wide distribution. 

 The range of variation is quite extensive as is attested by the uumer. 

 ous specific terms that have been applied to it.' Reference to a 

 large series of specimens from localities widely separated geo- 

 graphically, appears to indicate that the synonymy of the species as 

 already given, is probably correct, though other names may yet be 




248 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



included. Notwithstanding the fact that Terehratula tita and 

 Rhynchonella osagensis were proposed the same year, Marcou's 

 name has priority of several months as has been satisfactorily shown 

 by White. Geinitz referred this same form to the European Cam- 

 arophoi'ia globulina Phillips ; but at present it does not seem advis- 

 able to consider the two forms as specifically identical. It is not 

 improbable that the shell described by Marcou is the same as cer- 

 tain forms, known under other names, from the Lower Carbonif- 

 erous rocks. 



Lima retifera Shuinard. 



Lima retifera Shumard, 1858 : Trans. St. Louis Academy Sci., vol. I, p. 214. 



Lima retifera Geinitz, 1866 : Carb. und Dyas in Nebraska, p. 36, t. ii, figs. 20 

 and 21. 



Lima retifera Meek, 1872: U. S. Geol. Sur. Nebraska, p. 188, pi. ix, fig. 5. 



The specimens collected at Des Moines and referred to this spe- 

 cies consist only of a few fragments. Finely preserved examples 

 have, however, been found not far from the locality mentioned and 

 hence the species may be properly included in the fauna of the dis- 

 trict. The true generic characters of the forms have not as yet 

 been satisfactorily made out ; and it is therefore with some hesita- 

 tion that they are here allowed to remain under Lima. 



Aviculopecten whitei Meek. 



Avictdopecten whitei Meek, 1872 : U. S. Geol. Sur. Nebraska, p. 19o, pi. iv, 

 fig. 11, a, b, c. 



In the present state of confusion concerning the specific limits of 

 the various forms of the genus it is difficult to satisfactorily make 

 out the synonymy of the different species. The large number of 

 individuals already described and referred to the genus will illu.s- 

 trate how cogent is the necessity for a thorough revision of the 

 group. Different species have been based upon the right and left 

 valves of the same shell. Others have attained specific distinction 

 merely upon trivial variations of the " ears ;" for it is now well 

 known that in the majority of the species of the group these char- 

 acters differ very much in the two parts of the same shell. 



While the Des Moines specimens are manifestly identical with 

 Meek's A. whitei the relationships to other forms cannot at this time 

 be taken into consideration. 



Avicula longa (Geinitz). 



Gei~i'illia longa Gem\\z, 1866: Carbon, und Dyas in Nebraska, p. 32, t. ii, 

 fig. 15. 



Avicula longa Meek & Worthen, 1873 : Geol. Sur. Illinois, vol. V, p. 578, pi. 

 xxvi, fig. 1. 



This species occurs very abundantly at Des Moines in the lower 

 portion of the so-called Middle Coal Measures. It has not as yet 




1891.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 249 



been recognized below this horizon, at least in Iowa. Westward the 

 same form is found in the uppermost portion of the Upper Coal 

 Measures and also in the Permian strata of early authors. It 

 probably has a very much wider geographical range over the 

 Mississippi basin than has hitherto been suspected. 



Geinitz has intimated that Swallow's Bakevellia pulchra may be 

 very closely related ; but as the description of the latter is so un- 

 satisfactory and is unaccompanied by figures it is not possible now to 

 make out the exact relationships of the two forms. 



Macrodon obsoletus Meek. 



Macrodon obsoletus Meek. 1871 : Rep. Reg. Univ., W. Va. 



Macro.ion obsoletus Meek, 1875 . Geo). Sur. Ohio, Pal. vol. II, p. 334, pi. -xix, 

 fig. 9. 



The bivalve under consideration was originally described from 

 the Apalachian region, where it appears to be rather widely 

 distributed through Pennsylvania, West Virginia and Ohio But 

 it has not before been recognized west of the Mississippi river. The 

 Iowa shells are somewhat larger than those from the more eastern 

 localities but do not differ essentially from the typical forms of the 

 species. Meek's type specimen is a good cast showing the characters 

 perfectly. The shell is radiately striated. 



Nucula beyrichi Schauroth. 



AhiLtila beyrichi Schauroth, 1854 : Zeit. der Deut. Geol. Gesel., vol. VI, p. 551, 

 t. xxi, fi<;. 4. 



N^uctda beyrichi Geinitz, 1866 : Garb, und Dvas in Nebraska, p. "21, t. i, figs. 

 36, 37. 



Nucula beyrichi Meek & Woilhen, 1873 : Geol. Sur. Illinois, vol. V, p. 589. 



As remarked by Meek, there is some doubt as to the correct ref- 

 erence of the Auierican forms of the group to the European species 

 of Von Schauroth. Comparisons of the Iowa specimens of this spe- 

 cies and N. pcn-va of McChesney give no indication of the identity 

 of the two shells as has been suggested at various times. One of 

 the most striking differences between the two forms is the forward 

 position of the beaks in the one and the central location of the um- 

 bones in the other. None of the Des Moines shells have been ex- 

 amined internally to ascertain the character of the hinge teeth and 

 muscular impressions. 



Schizodus alpina (Hall). 



Dolabra alpitia Hall, 1858: Geol. Iowa, vol. I, p. 716, pi. xxix, fig. 2. 

 Schizodus alpina Meek & Hayden, 1864: False. Upper Mo., p. 58. 



The original locality of Schizodus alpina is Alpine Dam on the 

 Des Moines river. Hall referred the form with some doubt to 



17 




250 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



Dolahra ; and it was not until some years afterwards that Meek 

 & Hayden suggested that the shell belonged probably to Schizodus. 

 As the specimens occur in Iowa, the shells are usually wanting; so 

 that only internal casts are commonly met with. 



Pleurophorus permianus Swallow. 



P/europ/ionts />frmmniis Swallow, 1858; Trans. St. Louis Acad. Sci., vol. I, 

 p. 192. 



C/it/o/>/ionts />al/asi Gemtz, 1866 ■■ Carb und Dyas in Nebraska, p. 23, t. ii, 

 fig. 3. (Not Mytilus pallasi d.^ Yern., 1845.) 



Fleurop/iorus occidt'tualis ? 'Met'k,\S~2: U. S. Geol. Sur. Nebraska, p. 212, 

 pi. X. fig. 12. (Not P. occidentalis Meek & Hayden, 1858) 



The Des Moines forms appear to be the same as those described by 

 Swallow as Pleurophorus permianus. And although the type is a 

 cast the prominent ribs on the posterior slope leave little doubt as 

 to its identity. The Iowa shells are, however, well preserved, show- 

 ing all the minute details of structure. 



Geinitz's figure 4 on tafel iiin his " Carbonformation und Dyas in 

 Nebraska" is manifestly the same form ; and cannot be regarded 

 as de Verueuil's Mytllus pallasL Meek, however, in the IT. S. Geo- 

 logical Survey of Nebraska refers Geinitz's shells to P. occidentalis 

 of Meek & Hayden ; but there now seems to be considerable doubt 

 as to the correctness of this view. In the Catalogue of American 

 Paleozoic Fossils Miller has assigned all of Geinitz's forms to 

 Meek's P. ohlongus. This reference is only partly correct, inas- 

 much as Geinitz's C. pallasi embraces two distinct forms. 



Pleurophorus subcuneatus Meek and Hayden. 



PleuropJiorus subcutteatus ^leeV. Si Hayden, 1858: Trans. Albany Inst., vol. 

 IV, p. 81. 



Pleurophorus subcuneatus Meek & Hayden, 1864: Pal. Upper Mo., p. 66. 



Pleuropherus simplus Geinitz, 1866: Carb. und Dyas in Nebraska, p. 24 (not 

 of V. Keyserling). 



There is but little doubt that the form from Des Moines is 

 identical with that figured by Geinitz in 1866, as Pleurophorus 

 simplus of Keyserling. Meek and Hayden had already described it 

 under P. subcuneatus, but their figures are inaccurate and give a 

 very erroneous conception of the real shape of the shell. This was, 

 however, corrected by Meek in Dana's Manual of Geology. 



Astartella vera Hall. 



Astai-tella vera Hall, 1858: Geol. Iowa, I, p. 715, pi. xxix, fig. 1. 



The form under consideration was originally described from Iowa 

 but since the appearance of the first diagnosis of the .species more 

 than thirty years ago little has been known of it within the limits 

 of the state. 




1891.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 251 



Although a thorough examination of all the forms described 

 under the genus has not been made, the differences, as compared 

 with Astarte, do not appear sufficiently great to give Hall's term a 

 separate generic rank. Further comparisons may not, however, 

 confirm this suggestion and hence until complete evidence is at hand 

 A-startella should, perhaps, be allowed to stand as a valid generic 

 group. 



Dentalium annulostriatum Meek &, Worthen. 



Denlaliuiu ? annulostriaiwn Meek & Worthen, 1870: Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., 

 Phila., p. 45. 



Dentalhwi ? annulostriatum Meek & Worthen, 1873 : Geol. Sur. Illinois, vol. 

 V, p. 589. 



Dentalium annulostriatu?n Keyes, 1388: Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., Phila., p. 234. 



On a former occasion, the finding of six specimens of this sj)ecies 

 was recorded. Since that time a number of additional individuals 

 have been obtained from higher horizons and associated with a sim- 

 ilar fiiuna. The peculiar annular costse which are so prominent 

 and .so characteristic of the species have given rise to the suspicion 

 that these shells should more properly be assigned to a different 

 genus than that to which they are now referred. However this 

 may be, until a more critical study of the shells has been made, it 

 is, perhaps, advisable to allow the form to remain under its original 

 generic title. The character of the costa? are quite anomalous as 

 compared with the surface markings of the other members of the 

 group, while the great prominence of the annulations, as usually 

 exhibited, is by no means as constant as might be supposed. In 

 some individuals the rings are only faintly developed and the sur- 

 face of the shells thus appears nearly smooth. 



Dentalium meekianum Geinitz. 



Dentalium meekianum Geinitz, 1866 : Caib. und Dyas in Nebraska, p. 13, tab i 

 fig. 20. 



Dentalium meekianum Meek & Worthen, 1873: Geo). Sur. Illinois, vol. V, 

 p. 590, pi xxix, fig. 8. 



Dentalium meekianum Keyes, 1888: Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., Phila , p. 234. 



All the species of Dentalium described from the Upper Carbon- 

 iferous of North America have been recognized at Des Moines. 

 Half a dozen other forms have been noticed in the Lower Carbon- 

 iferous of the Mississippi basin, while AVhitfield has called atten- 

 tion to a single form from the Upper Helderberg. The latter is, 

 therefore, the earliest form of the genus, now known from the 

 American continent. 



The species here recognized represent three distinct types of the 

 genus: the first having the surface ornamentation composed of a 




252 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



series of ridges transverse to the axis of the shell, thus forming an- 

 nular elevations ; in the second the costie are much less jDrorainent 

 and are arranged obliquely or spirally ; and the third has the ribs 

 running longitudinally. 



Dentalium sublaeve Hall. 



Dejitaliuvi ohsolelum Hall, 1S5S: Geol. Iowa, vol. I, p. 724, pi. xxix, figs. 16, 

 17, 17a. (Not Schlotheim, 1832). 



Dentalium sublave Hall, 1877: Miller's Am. False. Foss., p. 244. 



The specimens recently obtained and referred to this species are 

 somewhat smaller than the individuals originally figured by Hall. 

 The longitudinal costfe are quite pronounced as might be expected 

 in young and well-preserved shells. Inasmuch as Hall assigned no 

 locality to the specimens described, more or less doubt must exist as 

 to the exact identification of his species. But as the type specimens 

 were probably among other material from Iowa, it is thought that 

 the shells from the central part of the state represent younger in- 

 dividuals of the species in question. In the original description 

 Hall gave the name D. obsoletum to the form under considera- 

 tion, but that term had been preoccupied by Schlotheim nearly 

 thirty years. The name was, therefore, in 1877, changed to the one 

 it here bears. 



This type of Dentalium has an exceedingly wide range in both 

 time and space. Forms almost indistinguishable from the Carbon- 

 iferous shells of Des Moines are found in the Eocene of the Gulf 

 states and along the Atlantic coast. 



Pleurotomaria modesta Keves. 



Plettrotoviaria depiessa Cox, 18o7 : Geol. Sur. Kentucky, vol. Ill, p. 569, pi. 

 viii. figs. 10, lOa. (Not Piissy. 1832) 



Ptettrotofuaria viodesta Keye«, 18S8 : Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci.. Phila., p. 23S. 

 Pleurotomaria kentuckensis Miller, 1890 : N. A. Geol. and Paine., p. 431. 



At the time of the original diagnosis of Fleurotomaria modesta it 

 was not known just what relation this form bore to Cox's P. 

 depressa though it was stated that the two Avould probably prove 

 identical. An examination of material other than that which was 

 used in the previous notes leaves but little doubt that the two forms 

 are specifically the same. The name Pleurotomaria depressa, how- 

 ever, was preoccupied by Phillips in 1836 and the term was also 

 used by de Koninck and by Passy. Modesta therefore becomes the 

 specific designation of the form. Miller has lately proposed the 

 term P. kentuckensis for the same shell but this name, of course can 

 only be placed as a synonym. 




1891.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 253 



In the vicinity of Des Moines this species is now known to have a 

 considerable vertical range. It occurs near the base of the lower 

 coal measures and extends into the middle coal horizon. Its 

 geographic range is also quite extensive. 



Pleurotomaria carbonaria Xorwood & Pratten. 



Pleurotomaria carbonaria Norwood & Pratten, 1855: Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci., 

 Phila., (2), vol. Ill, p. 75, pi. ix, fig. 8. 



Pleurotomaria carbonaria Keyes, 1888 : Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., Phila., p. 2.39. 



The original specimens of this species are from Williamson 

 county, Illinois. A very similar form has been described from New- 

 port, Indiana, under the name of P. newportensis. Apparently the 

 only difference ascribed is that the latter has its revolving band 

 raised instead of depressed. Further comparisons may eventually 

 show this character is varietal rather than specific. This suggestion 

 seems all the more plausible since many individuals which are un- 

 questionably P. carbonaria have the band scarcely sunk below the 

 surface. 



Pleurotomaria sphaerulata Conrad. 



Pleurotomaria spharulata Conrad, 1842 : Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci., Phila., vol. VIII, 

 p. 272, pi. xvi, fig. 12. 



Pleurotomaria corcnula Hall, 1852 : Stansbury Exp. to Great Salt Lake, p. 413, 

 pl. iv, fig. 4, f. 6a-d. 



This form is the leading member of a widely distributed group of 

 shells which manifestly belong to a single species but which in 

 different parts of its range has received a variety of specific names. 

 Notwithstanding, however, the many varietal phases exhibited there 

 is always a peculiar constancy of characters by which the form is 

 readily distinguished from other shells of the genus. In this country 

 a very large number of species of Pleurotomaria have been described, 

 embracing many diverse types. The same state of affairs also 

 existed in Europe until de Koninck attempted to set aside the 

 prevalent difficulties by breaking up the genus into several groups, 

 which in fact are more or less easily separable even according to 

 general shape. The original genus was thus greatly restricted and 

 the various sections raised to an equal taxonomic rank. In its main 

 aspects de Koniuck's scheme will doubtless be found very conven- 

 ient in its application to the American Pleurotomarire. In this 

 connection it may be further stated that the work along this line has 

 already been partly done and the results thus far reached have been 

 eminently satisfactory. 




254 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



Pleurotomaria valvatiformis Meek & Worthen. 



Pleurotomaria valvatifurmis Meek & Worlhen, 1866: Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., 

 Phila., p. 273. 



Pleurotomaria valvatiformis Meek & Worthen, 1873: Geol. Sur. Illinois, vol. 

 V, p. 602, pi. xxix, fig. 9. 



The form under consideration is the smallest of the group yet 

 observed in the ISIississippi basin. It apparently belongs to the 

 same section as the large P. carbonaria already mentioned. The 

 species seems to have a much wider geographic rayge than has 

 hitherto been suspected but owing to its small size has usually 

 escaped notice. 



Murchisonia quadricarinata (Worthen). 



Loxo7ie?tia quadricaruiattim Worthen, 1884: Bui. 2, Illinois State Mus. Nat. 

 Hist., p. 7. 



Loxonenta quadricarinatiivi Worthen, 1890 : Geol. Sur. Illinois, vol. VIII, p. 

 140. 



So manifestly different is Worthen's species from the forms of 



Loxonema that no hesitation is experienced in removing it from the 



genus under which it w^as originally described. While there is a 



probability amounting almost to certainty, of this shell being a true 



Ilurchisonia, all doubts as to its correct reference cannot be entirely 



removed until the apertural parts, which are in no specimens yet 



discovered perfectly preserved, can be throughly examined. 



Bellerophon montfortianus Norwood <t Pratten. 



Bellerophon montfortianus Norwood & Pratten, 1855 : Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci., 

 Phila.. (2). vol. Ill, p. 74. 



Bellerophon 7nontfortianus Geinitz, 1866 : Carb. und Dyas in Nebraska, p. 8, 

 tab. l.fig. 13. 



Bellerophon montfortianus Meek, 1872: U. S. Geol. Sur. Nebraska, p. 225, pi. 

 xi, fig. 15. 



Bellerophon montfortianus Keyes, 1888: Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., Phila., p. 235. 



Like several other members of this group B. montfortianus is 

 widely distributed over the Mississippi basin ; and also through the 

 Apalachian region. Owing to the extreme delicacy of the 

 shell it is rarely obtained in a good state of preservation. It may be 

 characterized as follows : 



Shell with inner whorls rather small ; body turn greatly expanded 

 toward the aperture ; umbilicus nearly closed ; aperture ample, 

 more or less distinctly reniform ; labial sinus rather narrow, deep ; 

 revolving band rather constricted, well defined, and depressed with 

 a narrow median elevation. Outer lip extremely thin, regularly 

 rounded on each side of the central cleft; much thickened towards 

 the umbilicus. Inner lip well marked by a callous accumulation 

 which is particularly prominent towards the middle. Surface 




1891.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 255 



ornamented by numerous fine rounded filiform ribs running longitu- 

 dinally, every third or fourth one of which is much more elevated 

 than those lying between ; these are crossed transversely by minute 

 raised stride. With the exception of the last half of the outer whorl 

 the shell is also marked by large transverse, more or less broken 

 ridges on each side of the median sulcus. 



This beautiful species appears to be much more abundant in 

 Pennsylvania, West Virginia and other portions of its eastern range, 

 than in the region west of the Mississippi river, where it seems to be 

 largely replaced by closely allied forms. 



Bellerophon urii Fleming. 



Bellerophon urii Fleming, 1828 : Brit. Anim., p. 3?8. 



Bcllerpphon urii Norwood & Pratten, 1854: Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci., Phila., vol. 

 Ill, p. 75, pi. ix, fig. 6. 



Bellerophon carho7iarius Cox, 1857: Geol. Sur. Kentucky, vol. Ill, p. 562. 



Belleropkoti blaneyavus McChesney, 18H0: New Palie. Foss., p 60. 



Bellerophoti carbonariiis Geinitz, 1866 : Carb. und Dyas in Nebraska, p. 6, tab. i, 

 fig. 8. 



Bellerophon carbonarius Meek, 1872: U. S. Geo!. Sur. Nebraska, p. 224, pi. iv, 

 fig. IB; and pi. xi, ]la-c. 



Bellerophon urii Keyes, 1888 : Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., Phila., p. 236. 



The complete synonymy of this species has been given in the 

 publication la.st referred to above, and therefore does not require 

 further mention here. As stated on a former occasion there are 

 apparently no good reasons for regarding the form usually called B. 

 carbonarius as distinct from the familiar and widely distributed 

 European B. urii. The American shell was early referred to B. 

 urii by Norwood and Pratten ; and it was not until some years later 

 that Cox renamed the specimen. The number of longitudinal 

 carinse is exceedingly variable, fifteen to thirty being the usual 

 limits, though in very large individuals the costre often exceed the 

 latter figure. 



The geographic distribution of this species is very wide. Aside 

 from its common occurrence in Europe it ranges in America from 

 the eastern slope of the Apalachians to the Rocky mountains. 



Bellerophon subpupillosus seems to be merely a local unimportant 

 variation, perhaps an abnormal development. The papillae are 

 often recognizable on some of the Iowa shells. Certain of the lat- 

 ter individuals show this peculiarity even more distinct!}' than the 

 type specimen itself; and from this extreme there are all gradations 

 to perfectly smooth surfaces. 



Straparollus catilloides (Conrad). 



Inachus catilloides Conrad, 1842: Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci., Phila., vol. VIII, p. 

 273, pi. XV, fig. ?,. 




256 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



Euomphalus rngosus Hall, 1858 : Geol. Iowa, vol. I, p. 722, pi. xxix.fig. 14. 

 (Not E regusos Soweiby.) 



Slraparollus [Euomphalus) stibrugosus Meek & Woithen, 1873: Geol. Sur. 

 Illinois, vol. V, p. ti07, pi. xxix, fig. 11. 



Euomphalus rngosus White, 1884 : Geol. Sur. Indiana, 13th Ann. Rep., p. 161. 

 pi. xxxii, figs. 11, 12. 



Euomphalus rugosus Keyes, 1888 : Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., Phila., p. 241. 



There appears to be but little doubt that the form described by 

 Conrad from the region east of Apalachians as Inachus catilloides 

 and Euomphalus rugosus of Hall are identical. Although Conrad's 

 original diagnosis is very brief, his figure shows clearly what 

 shell he had under consideration. A careful comparison of a 

 large series of Pennsylvania specimens and those from the Missis- 

 sippi basin fails to bring out any difference sufficiently great to war- 

 rant a specific separation of the shells from the two localities. This 

 form is commonly known throughout the continental interior under 

 Hall's name. His designation, however, is preoccupied by Sow- 

 erby ; and for this reason Meek & Worthen proposed subrugosus 

 for the specific term. After all, it is very probable that the form 

 in question should properly be regarded as identical with a certain 

 European species ; and further comparison may necessitate tlie mer- 

 gence of the two species now regarded valid. 



Straparollus catilloides as now understood is widely distributed 

 geographically, being one of the most abundant and characteristic 

 shells of the Lower Coal Measures. It occurs usually in the dark 

 bituminous shales overlying the coal seams a.ssociated w'ith other 

 gasteropodous species. It often attains a very considerable size 

 though seldom does the maximum measurement exceed twelve milli- 

 meters. At Des Moines the vertical range of this species is from 

 the base to the top of the Lower division of the Coal Measures ; it 

 is also met with in the so-called middle section at Van Meter in 

 Dallas county near the base of the Upper Coal Series ; and very 

 probably extends considerably higher. The form has not as yet 

 been recognized in the Lower Carboniferous of the state, but its 

 very different habitat may easily account for its absence. 



Straparollus pernodosus Meek A AVorthen. 



Straparollus {Euoviphahis) pernodosus Meek & Woithen, 1870: Proc. Acad. 

 Nat. Sci., Plula., p. 4o, pi. xxix, figs. ]4a-c. 



Straparollus {Euofuphahis) pernodosus Meek & Woithen, 1873 : Geol. Sur. 

 Illinois, VI. 1. V, p. 604, pi. xxix, figs. I4a-c. 



Euomphalus pernodosus Keyes, 1888: Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., Phila., p. 241. 



The species of this group occurring in central Iowa belong 

 properly to the section with angular whorls, to which Sowerby gave 




1891.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 257 



the generic term Euomphalus. The relations of tlie forms heretofore 

 generally referred to Sowerby's section and those belonging to 

 Moiitfort's genus Straparollus have already been pointed out 

 at length.' It has thus been satisfactorily shown that the two 

 genera are practically co-extensive and as Montfort's term has 

 priority it must be adopted for the group of paleozoic gasteropods 

 distinguished by having the shell rather thick, planorbiform, or 

 depressed conical, broadly and deeply umbilicated ; whorls angular 

 or rounded, usually closely coiled, but often barely in contact ; 

 aperture sharply pentagonal or sub-circular ; labium generally 

 sharp. The surface of the volutions is for the most part smooth, or 

 showing only numerous lines of growth ; but sometimes with one or 

 more distinct longitudinal carinse. 



In Iowa the transition forms between the two .sections above 

 alluded to are fully represented in certain species of the Kinderhook 

 and Burlington formations. The gradations are complete from those 

 species having elevated spires and rounded volutions — like S. 

 macromphalus AVinchell — to those with depressed spires and angu- 

 lated whorls — as S. roberti (White). In the latter examples the 

 turns are flattened above and the extremity of the spiral portion 

 situated midway between the upper and lower planes of the volutions. 

 The shell is thus perfectly planorbiform with one side angular and 

 the other rounded. 



Naticopsis nana (Meek it Worthen). 



Piaty^toma nana Meek & Worthen, 1860: Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., Phila., p. 463. 



Naticopsis nana Meek & Worthen, 18(56: Geol. Sur. Illinois, vol. II, p. 365, 

 pi. xxxi, tig. 4. 



This minute form was originally described under Platystoma ; and 

 there is yet reason for believing that it may actually belong to that 

 grouj) instead of Naticopsis, as Meek & "Worthen afterwards thought. 

 Should further study indicate that the species is actually a member 

 of the first group its name becomes Strophostyhis nana since it has 

 been recently shown that Stropliostylus must be applied to the 

 Platystoma section as founded by Conrad. 



Trachydomia wheeleri (.'^wallow). 



Littorina r<;'//tv.fr/ Swallow, 1860: Trans. St. Louis, Acad. Sci., vol. I, p. 6-58. 



Naticopsis (^Trachydomia^ wheeleri Meek & Worthen, 1866: Geol. Sur. Illi- 

 nois, vol. II, p. 364. 



Naticopsis -wheeleri Meek & Worthen, 1873 : Gsol. Sur. Illinois, vol. V, p. 595, 

 pi. xxviii, fig 3. 



1 Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci , Phila., 1889, p. 291; also Am. Geol., vol. V. p. 

 193-197. 




258 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



Naticopsis ivheeleri White, 1884: Geol. Sur. Indiana, Ann. Rept. for 1883, pt. 

 ii, p. 162. xxxii, figs. 13, 14. 



Trachydomia nodulosa Worthen, 1884 : Bui. No. 2, Illinois State Mus. Nat. 

 Hist., p 8 



Trachydomia 'wheeleri Keyes, 1889 : American Geologist, vol. IV, p. 195. 



Trachydottiia ivheeleri Keyes, 189(» : The Nautilus, vol. IV, p. ,30. 



Trachydomia ncdulosa Worthen, 1890 : Geul. Sur. Illinois, vol. VIII, p. 146, 

 pi. xxiii, figs. 11, 11a. 



Trachydomia was originally proposed by Meek & Worthen in 

 1866 as a subgenus of Naticopsis McCoy. It is now believed that 

 the characters are sufficiently well marked to admit of a distinct 

 generic separation from McCoy's genus. The chief features distin- 

 guishing the two sections as recently made out may be here briefly 

 restated. In Naticopsis proper, as represented by the typical forms, 

 and by the majority of American species referred to the genus, the 

 shells are relatively thin ; the spire very short ; the outer lip ex- 

 tremely thin and sharp ; the inner lip also thin and slightly de- 

 pressed ; the last volutions generally more or less distinctly flattened 

 or concave on the upper half and marked toward the suture by 

 numerous small, short, equidistant costse, parallel to the lines of 

 growth. In contradistinction, the shells of Trachydomia are massive 

 with the spire larger and more elevated, the outer lip very thick, 

 but abruptly becoming sharp ; the columella very heavy, the cal- 

 osity thick and greatly extended ; the volutions covered with num- 

 erous equidistant nodes. 



The first species of this group described from the American pal- 

 eozoic rocks was called by Swallow Littorina wheeleri. Since the 

 appearance of Swallow's notice, three other forms have been given 

 specific names: T. nodosa, which was regarded by Meek & Worthen 

 as the type of the genus; T. hollidayi Meek & Worthen, and T. 

 nodulosa Worthen. Now the known shells of this type have 

 a very wide geographical distribution, occurring at numerous places 

 in Illinois, Iowa, Missouri, Kansas and, according to White, also in 

 New Mexico. A careful comparison of a considerable number of 

 shells from widely separated localities leads to the conclusion that 

 the known forms of Trachydomia should all be referred to two 

 species — T. wheeleri, the one earliest described, and T. nodosa. The 

 various slight modifications in size, number of nodes, and amount of 

 callous material deposited can all be explained by local differences 

 in environment. And the complete intergradation of the several 

 forms renders this view necessary. 



The callosity of the inner lip often becomes very much thickened 

 in some individuals, but this prominence is not conspicuous in the 




1891.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 259 



majority of examples. It is iuteresting to uote iu this connection 

 tliat among the shells from Illinois, there are a number in which 

 the coloration of the callous portions and of the interior surface is 

 still visible. In some cases the color is an intense shining black ; 

 in some a purplish-black ; in others a dull faded purple ; and in a 

 few the color has nearly disappeared. Aside from the apertural 

 parts, all traces of the original coloration of the shells are lost. 

 Under the ordinary circumstances of fossilizatiou, the color could 

 hardly be expected to be preserved excej^t in rare cases ; and the 

 few' recorded instances of paleozoic species retaining such characters 

 are of peculiar interest. 



Aclisina minuta (Stevens). 



Aclis minuta Stevens, 1858 : Am. Jour. Sci., (2), vol. xxv, p. 259. 



Aclisina niinuia de Koninck, 1S81 : Ann. de Mus. Roy. d'Hist. Nat. de la 

 Belgique, T. VI. 



Aclisina minuta Keyes, 1888: Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., Phila., p. 240. 



The form under consideration was first noticed by Stevens as 

 Adis minuta. In 1881, de Koninck established the genus Aclisina 

 for the Turritilla striatula group of shells, which also embraced 

 Aclis minuta and several other American forms. In this country 

 the shells are all quite minute and at present are unknown except 

 in the Coal Measures. On account of this small size these gastero- 

 pods have usually escaped notice ; and it is for this reason probably 

 that they have been reported from so few localities. As has been 

 remarked elsewhere they occur quite commonly at Des Moines in 

 company with vast numbers of other minute mollusca. 



Loxonema scitula Meek &. Worthen. 



Lcxc7iema scitula Meek & Worthen, I860 : Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., Phila., p. 464. 



Loxonema rugnsa Meek iy: Worthen, I860: Pioc. Acad. Nat. Sci., Phila., 

 p. 465. 



Loxonema scitula Meek & Worthen, 1866 : Geo). Sur. Illinois vol. II, p. 377, 

 pi. XXX i, figs. lOa-c. 



Loxonema rtigosa Meek & Worthen, 1866: Geol. Sur. Illinois, vol. II, p. 378, 

 pi. xxxi, figs, lla-c. 



There have been described from the Coal Measures of the 

 Mississippi basin several species similar to the one under considera- 

 tion. At first glance the vertical costte appear perfectly straight in- 

 stead of arched as in the more typical forms of the genus. Upon a 

 closer examination, however, the ribs are found to curve consider- 

 ably. The relatively much larger size of the rounded ridges in this 

 section of the genus as compared with the Devonian forms tends 

 greatly to obscure the actual curvature. 




2G0 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



The figures accompanying the reprint of the original description, 

 in the second volume of the Illinois Geological Survey, are mislead- 

 ing in one particular ; that is in having the costse arranged directly 

 above one another, on the contiguous whorls. In the same place 

 the statement is also made that this is the case. Closer observation 

 has clearly shown that this arrangement is more apparent than real ; 

 and that actually the ridges of the different turns are set slightly 

 behind those of the preceding volution ; so that in place of forming 

 a perfectly straight, though interrupted ridge from the apex to the 

 middle of the body-whorl, the long rounded elevation is somewhat 

 spirally twisted. 



The number of costse varies with the size and maturity of the 

 shell. Usually there are from three to four ribs less on each whorl 

 than on the one immediately succeeding. Thus the eighth volu- 

 tion may have twenty-two or twenty-four rounded ridges while the 

 fourth has only twelve or thirteen. Below the middle of the whorls 

 the costag rapidly diminish both in height and breadth and are 

 continued as minute hair lines. The aperture is oval in outline, 

 slightly flattened on the side towards the axis. The inner lip 

 springs abruptly from the callous portion instead of gradually 

 blending with it at a low angle, but otherwise this species possesses 

 all the characteristics of the typical form of Lozonema. 



At Des Moines this species has as yet been found only at a single 

 horizon — near the top of the Lower Coal Measures. 



Loxonema multicosta Meek & AVorthen. 



Loxonema viulticosta Meek & Worthen. 1866 : Geol Sur. Illinois, vol. II, p. 

 378, pi. xxxi, fig. \'l. 



The remarks upon L. scitula are largely applicable to this species 



also. The costse are much smaller as a rule and they average about 



one-third more than on corresponding whorls of the other species. 



The number on the last volution may thus be thirty or more. This 



form is associated with the last and like that species has only been 



found at a single horizon. 



Soleniscus newberryi (Stevens). 



Loxonema newberryi Stevens, 1858 : Am. Jour. Sci., (2), vol. xxv, p. 259. 



Macrocheilus newberryi Hall, 1858 : Geol. Iowa, vol. I, p. 719, pi. xxix, fig. 1. 



SolcniscHS planus White, 1881 : Expl. & Sur., W. 100 Merid., Supp., vol. Ill, 

 p. xxix, pi. iv, fig. 4. 



Macrochilma neivberryi de Koninck, 18S1 : Ann. de Mus. Roy. d'Hist. Nat. 

 de la Belgique, t. VI, p. 36. 



Soleniscus newberryi White, 1884 : Gsol. Sur. Indiana., 13th Ann. Rep., pt. ii, 

 p. 153, pi. xxxiv, ffgs. 7, 8. 




1891.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 261 



Macrocheilus neivberiyi Keyes, 1888 : Proc. Acafl. Nat. Sci., Phila.. p. 240. 

 Soleniscus neiuberryi, Keyes, 1889 : Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., Phila., p. 808- 

 Soleniscus newherryi Keyes, 1889: Am. Naturalist, vol. XXIII, p. 423, pi. xx, 

 fig. o. 



Considerable confusion has long existed among the shells for 

 which Phillips long ago proposed the name Macrocheilus. The dif- 

 ficulties encountered in arriving at a correct nominal history of the 

 genus have been recently treated of at length. The more salient 

 points may be briefly summarized here. 



Macrocheilus was founded by Phillips' in 1841. Under it were 

 arranged six species, three of which were Buccinum breve Sowerby, 

 .B.tm6ncaf'um Phillips and B. acutum Sowerby. Phillips, however, 

 expressly stated that the first two of these properly belong to other 

 groups and that the third was regarded as more typical. B. acutum 

 hence becomes the type of the genus, as it was rightly considered by 

 de Koninck and other European writers. An examination of many 

 specimens of Sowerby's Buccinum acutum shows that the shell posseses 

 a more or less thickened lip and a prominent revolving fold on the 

 columella. The latter feature was longago recognized by de Koninck.^ 

 It thus appears that Sowerby's form is in all respects a typical Solen- 

 iscus as defined by Meek and Wurthen^ ; and that, therefore, this 

 genus and Macrocheilus are identical. 



But Phillips' term Macrocheilus was preoccupied by Hope in 1838 

 for a genus of insects and, therefore, becomes unavailable. Conrad, 

 in 1842, proposed Plectodylus for a group of fossil gasteropods 

 which evidently belonged to Macrocheilus ; but this name also had 

 been used by Beck five years before. In 1860, Meek and "Worthen 

 founded the genus Soleniscus, for certain paleozoic shells which now 

 are known to be very clcsely related to the type of Macrocheilus. 

 Inasmuch as the latter term had been previously used, Boyle, in 

 1879, substituted the name Duncania, which he afterwards changed 

 to Macrochilina. From the foregoing, it is, therefore, manifest that 

 the generic title Soleniscus has precedence for the Macrocheilus. 

 group, as typified by Buccinum acutum Sowerby and Soleniscus typi- 

 cus Meek & Worthen. 



1 Palje. Fuss. Cornwall, p. 103- 



2 Desc. des Anitn. Foss. de Belgique, 1844, p. 474. 

 » Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., Phila., 1860, p. 467. 




262 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



Soleniscus humilis (Keyes). 

 Macrocheilus humilis Keyes, 1888: Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., Phila., p. 239. 

 Soleniscus humilis Keyes, 1889: Am. Naturalist, vol. XXIII, p. 423. 

 Soleniscus humilis Keyes, 1889 : Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., Phila., p. 308. 

 Macrochilina humilis Miller, 189U : N. A. Geol. & Palas., p. 409. 



"NVith the exception of the finding of a few additional specimens 

 since the first record of the form no further information has been 

 obtained concerning this species. 



Soleniscus gracilis (Cox). 



Macrocheilus gracile Cox, 1857: Geol. Sur. Kentucky, vol. Ill, p. 570. 

 Macrocheilus gracile Keyes, 1888: Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., Phila., p. 239. 

 Soleniscus gracilis Ktyes, 1889: Am. Naturalist, vol. XXIII, p. 423. 

 Soleniscus gracilis Keyes, 1889: Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., Phila , p. 307. 

 Macrochilina gracilis Miller, 1890 : N. A. Geol. & Paige., p. 409. 



Until quite recently this little shell seems to have been generally 

 overlooked. Even when noticed it has been usually referred to 

 S. ventricosus of Hall. The two forms are certainly very closely 

 related but whether they will eventually prove identical or not can- 

 not be decided at present. As remarked in another place, the smaller 

 specimens are less ventricose and have the spire proportionally much 

 higher than in older individuals, which simulate, somewhat, Hall's 

 species above alluded to. As a matter of fact the latter form has 

 been recognized only in a few instances; while its name has been 

 applied to a very considerable number of shells which are manifestly 

 quite different specifically. 



Soleniscus paludinaeformis (Hall). 



Macrocheilus paludincEforniis Hall, 1858: Geol. Iowa, vol. I, p. 719, pi. xxix 



fig- 10- . 



Soleniscus paludincefonms^sX^^XeifYSi^: Geol. Sur. Indiana, 13th Ann. Rep., 

 p. ii, p. 154. 



Soleniscus paludincFformis Keyes, 1889: Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., Phila., p. 308. 



Perhaps the only question of synonymy in connection with this 

 species is its possible identity with Conrad's Plectostylus hildreihi. 

 The type of the latter, however, appears to be merely an internal 

 cast which fact makes it almost impossible to determine the exact 

 relationship of the two forms. In any case it is not probable that 

 under these circumstances Conrad's name could in any way be made 

 to supplant Hall's species. 



Sphaerodoma medialis (Meek & Worthen). 



Macrocheilus r?iediale Meek & Worthen, 1860 : Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., Phila., 

 p. 466. 



Macrocheilus pulchellum Meek & Worthen, I860 : Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., Phila., 

 p. 467. 



Macrocheilus inter calare Meek & Worthen, 1860 : Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., Phila., 

 p. 467. 




1891.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 263 



Macrocheilus tnediale Meek & Worthen, 1866 : Geol. Sur. Illinois, vol. II, 

 p. 37(t, pi. XXXI, figs. 5a-b. 



il/rt(rror/;«7«.f /«/«Y<7/i2r? Meek & Worthen, 1 866: Geol. Sur. Illinois, vol. II, 

 p. 371, pi. xxxii, figs. 6a-b. 



Soleiiiscus rnedialis White, 1884: Geol. Sur. Indiana, 13th. Ann. Rep., p. ii, 

 p. 156. 



Sp/itzrodoma tnedialis Keyes, 1889 : Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., Phila., p. 306. 



Macrochilina rnedialis Miller, 1890: N. A. Geol. & Pal., p. 409. 



The generic relations of Sphcerodoma have already been fully 

 di.scu.ssed elsewhere. In contradistinction to the nearest allied 

 genus, Soleniscus, the shells of this group have the volutions very 

 convex, the spire greatly depressed, the body-whorl relatively much 

 larger and the aperture correspondingly ample, while the coluraellar 

 ridge is usually very obtuse or not defined. These forms are 

 commonly found in the calcareous beds, while their fusiform 

 relatives occur most plentifully in bituminous shales ; the inference 

 is, that the former were probably more strictly marine than the 

 latter. 



Bulimorpha minuta (Stevens). 



Lox-une»ia minu/a Stevens, 1858: Am. Jour. Sci., f2), vol XXV, p. 260. 



Actceoitina viitiuta Meek & Worthen, 1873: Geol. Sur. Illinois, vol. V, p. ,594, 

 pi. xxxix, fig. 2 * 



ActiEonina tninuta Keyes, 1888: Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., Phila., p. 240. 



Bulimorpha minuta Keyes, 1889 : Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., Phila., p. 301. 



The rea.sons for considering this species under Bulimorpha have 

 already been fully stated. A further examination of the foi-m ap- 

 pears to indicate that the inner lip actually is separated from the 

 outer labrum by a distinct notch. Its nearest ally is, therefore, B. 

 canaliculata (Hall). In regard to the generic relations, it may be 

 said that the as.semblage, of which this little shell is one of the mem- 

 bers, embraces those American forms having the shell fusiform, 

 with the spire elongated ; the whorls more or less decidedly convex, 

 the last rather large ; the columella curved, abbreviated or trun- 

 cated at the base ; the inner lip often well defined anteriorly, and 

 usually separated from the outer by a more or less well-marked 

 notch ; surface smooth. Accordingly, this group would include 

 not only those forms originally comprehended under the genus Buli- 

 viella established by Hall but also certain other species. Some of 

 the forms now recognized as belonging to the section have been 

 assigned to Portlock's Polyphemopsis, but there is reason to believe 

 that this term is not correctly applicable to any known American 

 gasteropod. Hall's Bulimella is preoccupied by Pfeiffer and it is, 

 therefore, necessary to find some other more appropriate term for 




264 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



the group in question. Bulimorpha founded by Whitfield is appar- 

 ently the only available name for these shells, but whether this 

 title can be eventually considered valid cannot now be decided. 



Bulimorplia 1 chrysalis (Meek k Worthen). 



Polyphemopsis chrysalis Meek .i: Worthen, 1866: Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., Phila. , 

 p. 267. 



Polyphemopsis chrysalis Meek & Worthen, 1873 : Geol. Sur. Illinois, vol. V, 

 p. 59B, pi. xxviii, fig. 7. 



Bulimorpha chrysalis Keyes, 1889 ; Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., Phila., p. 300. 



Inasmuch as Polxjphemopsis is not recognized as an American genus 

 the species under consideration can only be referred to Bulimorpha 

 provisionally, until its generic position is more definitely known. The 

 Des Moines specimens are not preserved sufficiently well to indicate 

 the true structure of the anterior part of the shell. The species some- 

 Avhat resembles Soleniscxis newberryi (Stevens) but according to Meek 

 & AVorthen, it does not exhibit the columellar fold so characteristic 

 of that group. 



Goniatites nolenensis Co.\. 



GoniatiUs nolenensis Cox, 1857 : Geol. Sur. Kentucky, vol. Ill, p. 574. 



The single specimen from Des ]Moines is in an excellent state of 

 preservation and shows the minutest details of structure. And while 

 it does not agree exactly ^nth Cox's diagnosis referred to above, there 

 does not seem to be any valid reason for regarding it as anything 

 more than merely an individual variation of G. nolenensis. The 

 Des IMoines specimens come fi'om the base of the ]\Iiddle Coal Meas- 

 ures. At the same locality, but at a horizon considerably lower, 

 have been found abundant remains of a large Goniatite having a max- 

 imvnn diametric measurement of fully six inches. None of the.<e large 

 shells, however, have as yet been obtained sufficiently well preserved 

 for accurate descriptive purposes. 



Nearly a score of species of Goniatites have been recognized in the 

 coal measure strata of the continental interior. These are widely 

 distributed geographically from the Rockies to the Apalachians. 

 Many of them were of large size and rivaled the Xautiloid forms 

 which also flourished throughout the region. 



Thrinacodus duplicatus ? (Xewberry <fe Worthen). 



Drploclus duplicalus Ntwherry &: Worthen, 1866: Geol. Sur. Illinois, vol. II, 

 p. (51 . pi iv. figs. 3, 3a. 



Thrinacodus duplicatus St. John & Worthen, 1875 : Geol. Sur. Illinois, vol. VI, 

 p. 289. 



The specimens under consideration were obtained at the now 

 abandoned Giant Mine. They do not agree in all particulars with 




1891.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 265 



the typical forms of the species, as the denticles are somewhat large, 

 more slender and much longer. They are associated with numerous 

 molluscan shells. 



Deltodus intermedius St. John .V Worthen. 



Deltodus tnierineditis St. John iM Worthen, 1883 : Geol. Sur. Illinois, vol. VII, 

 p. 153, pi. ix, figs. 14, lo. 



It is with some doubt that the species in hand is referred to this 

 species which was described from the St. Louis limestone at Pella, 

 Iowa. It corresponds, however, in all essential particulars. 



The results thus far brought out may be summarized in the 

 following. 



Synoptical Table of Genera and Species. 



l^ Cephalopoda "3 "7 



Arthropoda Crustacea "2 "2 



Vertebrata Pisces "3 "4 



A comparison of the above table with a similar one given on an- 

 other occasion confirms still more strongly the conclusions arrived at 

 at that time. The present additions are nearly entirely confined 

 to the true mollu.sks, the previously known numbers of genera and 

 species from the locality being nearly doubled ; while very little, or 

 no gain is apparent in tlie other groups. 



18 




266 proceedings of the academy of [1891. 



May 1. 



Special meeting. 

 Mr. Thomas Meehan, Vice-President, in the chair. 



TlHrty-six person? jiresent. 



The announcement was made from the Chair that the President of 

 the Academy, Joseph Leidy, M. D., LLD. had died tlie 30th nltimo 

 in the sixty-eight year of his age. 



Whereujion the following minute was unanimously adopted: — 



The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia desires 

 to put on record its sense of the loss it has sustained in common 

 with the entire scientific world in the death of its President, Dr. 

 Joseph Leidy^ 



While his work in zoology and palaeontology shed a luster on the 

 Academy and extended its reputation Avherever physical truth is 

 valued throughout the earth, his official connection with the society, 

 extending over a period of nearly half a century as Curator, Chair- 

 man of Standing Committees and more recently as President, was 

 marked with discretion, tact and unswerving integrity, and actively' 

 promoted the welfare of every department. 



His charity, rectitude and humility endeared him to his associates 

 who loved the man while they admired the scholar. 



The sorrow experienced by his fellow-members enables them to 

 sympathize the more deeply with his wife and daughter to whom they 

 desire to convey the assurance of profound commiseration in their 

 irreparable bereavement. 



A committee consistmg of Prof Angelo Heilprm, Daniel G. Briu- 

 ton, 31. D., Henry C. Chapman, M. D., John H. Redfield, and 

 Harrison Allen, M. D., was appointed to make arrangements for 

 a Memorial Meeting to be held the 12th inst. 



It was resolved that the members of the Academy meet in the liall 

 the 2nd inst. to participate in the funeral services at the church. 




1891.] natural sciexces of philadelphia. 2g7 



May 5. 

 ^Ir. Thomas Meehax, Vice-President, in the chair. 

 Tiiirty-six persons present. 



A paper entitled " Contributions to the Life-Histories of Plants, 

 No. VI," by Thomas Meehan, was presented for publication. 



Dr. Henry C. Chapman was invited to prepare a Biographical 

 Notice of the late Dr. Joseph Leidy for publication in the Pro- 

 ceedings. 



May 12. 

 Memorial Meeting. 



Two hundred and thirty-two persons present. 



Rev. H. C. McCook D.D., Vice President, called the meeting to 

 order and then surrendered the chair to his associate Vice-President, 

 Mr. Thomas Meehan, who, after stating the si^ecial object of the 

 meeting to be a commemoration of the late President of the 

 Academy, Dr. Joseph Leidy, invited Dr. W. S. W. Ruschen- 

 BERGER to preside. Dr. Ruschenberger having taken the chair the 

 following papers were read in accordance with the report of the 

 Committee appointed at the last meeting : — 

 Harrison Allen M. D., on Dr. Leidy's work in Vertebrate 



Anatomy. 

 Henry C. Chapman M. D., on his work in Invertebrate Anatomy. 

 Prof. Angelo Heilprin, on bis work in Palaeontology and 



Geology. 

 Joseph Willcox, ou his work in Mineralogy. 

 James Darrach M. D., on his work in Botany. 

 Edw. J. Nolan M. D., on his Personal Character and Services to 



the Academy. 



Remarks were also made by James J. Levick M. D., Daniel G. 

 Brinton, Rev. H. C. McCook D. D., Mr. Isaac C. Martindale and 

 Mrs. Elizabeth L. Bladen. 



It was announced that Dr. Chapman had accepted tlie invitation 

 to prepare a Biographical Notice of Dr. Leidy. 




268 proceedings of the academy of [1891. 



May 19. 

 Mr. Thomas Meehan, Vice-President, in the chair. 



Forty-six persons present. 



A paper entitled " On Land and Fresh-water Mollusks collected 

 in Yucatan and Mexico," by Henry A. Pilsbry, was presented for 

 publication. 



The death of Prof. John LeConte of San Francisco, a corre- 

 spondent, was announced. 



Mr. Charles E. Smith was elected a member of the Council for 

 the unexpired term of the late Mr. Aubrey H. Smith. 



May 26. 

 Dr. J. Bernard Brinton in the chair. 



Thirty-three persons present. 



A paper entitled : " Echinoderms from the Bahama Islands," 

 by J. E. Ives, was presented for publication, 



It was resolved that as a mark of respect to the memory of Dr. 

 Leidy the office of President be not filled until the next annual 

 election. 



Authority was duly granted for the formation of an Ornithological 

 Section on second reading of an application signed by the following: 

 Spencer Trotter M. D., Benjamin Sharp M. D., William L. Abbott 

 M. D., Samuel X. Rhoades, Isaac C. ]\Iartindale, Edwin Sheppard, 

 Henry A. Pilsbry, George S. Morris, Joseph Willcox, Charles E. 

 Ridenour, Stewardson Brown and Witmer Stone. 



The following Avere elected members : — 



George M. Beringer, Joseph Crawford, Arthur Aimes Bliss M.D., 

 and Wra. J. McGinty. 



The following were ordered to be printed : — 




1891.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 269 



CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE LIFE-HISTORIES OF PLANTS. NO. VI. 



by thoma.s mkeiian. 



On the causes affecting variations in Linaria 

 vulgaris. 



Few subjects more deserve the attention of thoughtful students of 

 biology than the extent of variation aside from the conditions of 

 environment. Instructive papers bearing on evolution are continu- 

 ally appearing, the full value of Avhich is impaired by the passing 

 suspicion that the authors have not fully perceived how great is the 

 innate power to vary, independent of any external influences. That 

 environment or surrounding circumstances have considerable in- 

 fluence on the production of new forms may surely be admitted with- 

 out detriment to a profound belief that very much more is due to a 

 tendency to change implanted in the organism, the laws governing 

 which the keenest scrutiny has hitherto been baftled in the effort to 

 detect. It is possibly from this confession of ignorance, that the 

 advocates of change by environment have gained so much strength. 

 He who has something tangible to please us, has more power than 

 he who has to confess that he does not know. These of us who 

 Avould not have conceded as much to environment as is frequently 

 claimed for it, can only insist that change is evidently going on in 

 order, and evidently in accordance with a regular plan, — while if 

 all claimed for environment were conceded to be sound, it would 

 subject change to the mere chapter of accidents ; and the harmony, 

 and the exact dependence of one thing on another, which every- 

 where prevails, could scarcely exist. 



It ha.s been my fortune to have to show that in many cases where 

 variations have been charged to crossing by foreign pollen, or by 

 other " conditions of environment," it was extremely probable that 

 the sole actor in the Avork was this unkno"\ra law of change ; while 

 I have shoAvii in many monotypic species, or in species removed from 

 all p(jssilDility of intercrossing mth other species, that the variations are 

 quite as wide as if there had been full op])ortunity for the supposed 

 laws of environment to operate. 



Here I will call attention to the interesting variations any one may 

 find in an hour's walk among Linaria vulgaris, the common yellow 

 toad-flax, in any district where the conditions are absolutely identi- 

 cal, and the plant tolerably abundant. Let one gather in the walk 




270 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



any specimen that seems to be slightly different from another, and 

 he will be amazed on comparing the handful, to note how great the 

 difference. The foliage does not vary much, but some of the most 

 divergent flowers might j^ardouably be referred to distinct species, 

 did not the intermediate forms show that they were all of one family. 

 There are variations in color and in form. In color, some are pale 

 straw, and others deep yellow, while the palate varies from deep 

 orange to the faintest possible tinge of yellow. At times nearly all 

 the corolla, except the palate, is white instead of the normal tint, 

 and again are forms in Avhich only the backs of the two upper seg- 

 ments are Avliite. But the most interestiug variations are in the 

 form of the lower lip. This is trilobed. Sometimes the lateral lobes 

 are so broad as to overlap each other, when the central lobe seems 

 hardly noticeable. At other times, they are so widely separated 

 that the trilobed character is noticed at a glance. In some instances 

 the central lobe is scarcely produced, in others it is large and broad, 

 extending to the line of the lateral lobes. 



What has environment had to do with these widely variant forms? 

 The most diverse will often be found in proximity where no one 

 could suggest any difference whatever in the surrounding conditions. 

 It is an introduction from Europe, and has no close allies that any 

 one could name as likely to influence its poUination. Indeed, if 

 these were present, they Avould be inoperative as the plant is here, 

 and probably everywhere, a close breeder, as I noted years ago. 

 The pollen sacs burst before the corolla o])ens, scattering the fertil- 

 izing dust over its stigma which is evidently influenced thereby be- 

 fore the wind or msects have had any chance to operate. The flow- 

 ers can gain no advantage from any outside agency, usual Avith those 

 where insects have some opportunity to bring in foreign pollen before 

 it is too late. 



Aside from all this is the fact that the plants in any one given 

 locality, but a few years ago sprang from possibly one, or at most a 

 few progenitors, which, introduced by accident from Europe, 

 escaped the cultivators destructive hoe, and then spread, through its 

 progeny. 



There seems no escape from the deduction that the plant derives 

 from some pre-natal influence power to vary greatly, without 

 any regard to the long periods of time sometimes called for, and 

 wholly independent of external influences. 




1891.] natural sciences op philadelphia. 271 



On the Self-Fertilizing Character of Composite. 



Lepaehys pinnata. — The proposition originally, I believe, pre- 

 sented by me, that all plants abundantly fertile are arranged 

 for self-pollination, and are really self-fertilized receives its best 

 illustration in Composite. It is rare that a floret capable of 

 producing fertile akenes, proves barren. When I presented some 

 years ago this natural order of plants as an illustration of this 

 principle it was asserted by the late Professor Gray and others, 

 that in many there were bi-lobed stigmas, the lobes being closed 

 when the pistil pushed up through the pollen of the staniinate 

 column, and that the inner surface — the stigmatic surface — did not 

 receive the flower's own pollen, but had to receive it from \isiting 

 insects, or it fell on each floret of some earlier opening flower. The 

 very production of the ray florets, was regarded by these justly 

 eminent men as to be compared to signal flags unfolded by the 

 flower for the chief purpose of attracting insects. When it was 

 shown that the flowers of composites invariably produced seeds, 

 though fine netting excluded the insects usually supposed attractable 

 by the "signal flags," namely thrips, found in so many flowers in abun- 

 dance, were charged with the duty of cross fertilization, notwithstand- 

 ing the proposition, Avell put by Mr. Darwin, that the fertilization of 

 one flower by another on the same head was, practically, self-fertiliza- 

 tion. It was left to me to show by easily tested observations on 

 flowers having a marked contrast of color between the pollen and 

 stigmatic surface, that the pollen tubes entered by the clefts in the 

 closed bi-lobed stigmas, and that usually pollen grains on the closed 

 lobes fell in on to the stigmatic surfaces when the expansion of the 

 lobes took place. 



The object of this brief chapter is to add to the list of these easily 

 noted self-polhnating, and I may say, self-fertilizing species, Lepaehys 

 pinnata Gray. The long showy rays make magnificent " signal 

 flags," but no one can see otherwise than that the large and showv 

 orange pollen grains, get the chance to pollinate the brownish stig- 

 mas before any insect, not excepting thrips, can possibly have a 

 chance to do the "work. 



Bidens frondosa. — In this plant we have an arrangement by which 

 the visits of insects are prohil)ited. The retrorsely sharp barbed 

 teeth of the akenia are longer than tlie florets, and insects could not 

 rest on tlie heads without feet or wings getting entangled in these 

 sharp barbs. It is assumed that the teeth have been produced in 




272 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



the barbed condition to provide ingeniously for the distribution 

 of the seed. Certainly the barbed condition does materially aid in 

 such distribution. And it might be contended that in the evohition 

 of distril)uting agencies, the efibrt has lieen so vigorously successful 

 as to interfere with the assumed effort in plants to avoid self-fertiliza- 

 tion. But whether the arrangement is or is not, especially provided 

 to insure self-fertilization, it is clear that this is the result. It cannot 

 be said that Bidens frondosa has in any way suffered by ages of 

 pure in-and-in breeding. 



Aside from the seeming difficulties in the way of an insect's visit 

 to the flowers through the protective presence of these barbed points, 

 the author has for the pa.st two years, taken frequent opportunities 

 to note whether such visits are actually made, without seeing one in- 

 stance. It is true bees and other honey-seeking and pollen-gathering 

 insects usually continue at work on one particular species if at all 

 abundant, neglecting for the time being, others equally deserving 

 their attention. It does not follow that bees continually avoid a 

 flower they may seem to be neglecting to-day. It is, however, scarcely 

 probable that the author should not sometimes find bees visiting these 

 flowers, if there was any disposition to do so. On this day, Oct. 4th, 

 very few flowers are left, the floral season having nearly terminated. 

 The occupants of my neighbor's large bee-farm are busy trying to 

 profit by these last blooms of the season. A large tract under my 

 observation is densely covered Avith Aster puniceiis L. and A. puni- 

 ceus vimineus Gray, the common Mexican weed Galinsoga parvi- 

 flora Cav., Solidago ulmifolia Muhl., and our Bidens. But though 

 in some instances, especially in the case of the Galinsoga, the branches 

 of Bidens intertwine Avith the others, the bees neglect them. 



We may be justified in assuming that Bidens /rondosa L. is not 

 only so arranged in the structure of its florets that foreign pollen 

 cannot l)e ertective, but that, through the structure and position of 

 the l)arbed teeth of the akenia, insect visits do not occur, and are 

 rendered impracticable. 



On the Structure of the Flowers in Dipteracanthus 

 macranthus. 



Dipteracanthus macranthus (Nees), in gardens under the name of 

 Ruellia macrantha (Mart.), should, as a true member of the genus, 

 have the limb of the corolla " sub-equal. " Two of the five divisions 

 are, however, smaller than the others; and, with a little more effort. 




1891.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPniA. 273 



might have been hi -labiate. The fact is interesting as suggesting 

 some other consideration. 



In many bi-labiate acanths, the two smaller lobes form the upper 

 portion of the flower ; the three larger, the lower. In this species, 

 and the species of some allied genera, the pair of smaller lobes form 

 the lower portion of the flower. Examining the buds in an early 

 stage, it may be noted that they are indifferently turned, — some 

 having these smaller lobes uppermost, and some with them beneath. 

 These buds, at first greenish, change to purplish eventually, and 

 when the}' reach this stage, the tube twists in the case of those Avith 

 the upturned smaller petals, while those in -which they are lower 

 from the first, do not twist. Thus in the end, by the twisting of the 

 tube in one case, all the flowers eventually have the two smaller 

 sections low^erniost. 



It may be stated as a broad proposition that it is so essential to 

 the true character of this species that the smaller lobes should be 

 lowermost, that when the accident of early formation turns them up- 

 side down, the flower will twist its tube to regain the position which 

 we are compelled to regard as its natural one. 



It is surely worth considering why it is so necessary that the 

 flower should occupy a position which is exceptional among plants 

 of the order, and to discover if possible, the mode by which the 

 flower is brought to this exceptional position. 



This very large flower attords good opportunities for studying the 

 construction of its several paits. The slender tube is 1 2 inches long, 

 the stamens extend two inches beyond the tube, while the limb of the 

 corolla is fully three inches. In many flowers the union of the pri- 

 mary parts out of which a monopetalous flower is theoretically com- 

 posed is so thoroughly concealed that the superficial observer Avould 

 not suspect the primary gamopetalous condition morphology teaches. 

 Here, however, the strong veins of the primary structure remain, 

 rendering it evident that the parts Avere really separate, and that the 

 act of nnion Avas a subsequent event. We also see that though the 

 stamens usually ajipear to groAV out of, or to be borne by the corolla 

 in Acanthaceous plants, in this species, though attached to the lower 

 portion of the corolla tube, they are really a separate monadelphous 

 set of four, become free from the tube eA'entually, and coritinuing for 

 some distance into the limb of the flower, its monadelphous state. 



We may pause here for a moment to reflect that a petal, trans- 

 formed from a leaf as it is, loses its vigor in proportion to tlie com- 




274 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



pleteness of that transformation. A true leaf will live say three or 

 four months, but "when transformed as a petal it will die in that 

 many days. When the separate parts in the same flower undergo 

 different degrees of transformation, the parts retaining most of the 

 original leaf vigor will out-grow and control the least vigorous. 



Returning now to Dipteracanthus we see that the two lower 

 segments have lost, in a great measure, the venation characteristic 

 of the three upper ones. The power to act as leaves would act, is 

 more strongly i-etained by the three upper than the two lower. 

 They have had no difliculty in retaining the upper position — or as 

 we generally say, though possibly inaccurately — the most favored 

 position towards the light. AVe can therefore explain that in the 

 process of transformation from primary leaves to petals, two were 

 arrested earlier than the others. These, continuing a little longer 

 their growth as leaves, were able to get the upper hand of the 

 others, which were transformed earlier. AVe may now see pretty 

 clearly how the flowers of the Dipteracanthus macranihus are con- 

 structed on this peculiar plan — can we as readily tell why f 



Let us examine first from the standpoint of the speculations so 

 prevalent regarding the relations between winged creatures (insects 

 and birds) and flowers. The flowers, like those of numerous Acan- 

 thaceous plants, secrete an almost fabulous amount of nectar as the 

 blossoms are about to fade. The large open limb of the bright purple 

 corolla must be very attractive to humming birds, or to those long- 

 tongued insects capable of reaching through a tube an inch and a 

 half in length. Unfortunately the stamens are so compactly 

 arranged around the style, that one can scarcely conceive of any 

 creature's tongue getting down to the sweets ; and when, as in half 

 the flowers, we find the tube twisted as a cork screw, we must see that 

 nature has had no thought at all for arrangements to accommodate 

 the winged visitors. 



If we adopt the views I have advanced in many papers, and 

 which I believe I may claim as essentially my own, that in any 

 system of nature where some creatures are dependent on others, and 

 recognition of these separate classes severally by others an essential 

 condition of existence, variations in nature must, in a great measure, 

 have been provided for the mere sake of recognition. In the 

 " struggle for life " some means must exist by which to distinguish 

 friends from foes, if for no other reason. It is not necessary, there- 

 fore, with my views of the interdependence of things, to look into 




1891.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 275 



every variation or peculiarity of beliaviour, as related to a supposed 

 benefit to the plant in the struggle for life. I doubt whether there 

 is any special reason for the behaviour which results in this 

 beautiful species, except the necessity for infinitive variation. 



As I remember, other Acanths present similar conditions to that 

 described in this species, but I have confined this chapter to it 

 through having it now before me. It Avas to teach the lesson as much 

 as to describe the interesting condition of things. 



Aerial Roots in Vitis vulpina. 



Some one sent to Professor Asa Gray, in 1863, some aerial roots 

 of the Scuppernong grape, and received a reply from him that 

 the intSresting fact had not been before noted. He advised the 

 collector to send a note of the fact to the author of this paper, which, 

 with Dr Gray's letter, was done. The author could only say that it 

 was a fact as new to him as to Professor Gray, though it was not 

 unusual to see aerial roots from the main stems of the European 

 grape when under hot-house culture. 



The subject seems not to have again attracted attention. Recently 

 a coil of these roots brought from the South and presented to the 

 Academy by Joseph Walton, of Woodbury, Xew Jersey, showed 

 that these aerial roots were not wholly annual as in the hot-house 

 grapes referred to, but were three years old at least. They w'ere several 

 feet in length, and forked at the apex of each annual growth. Thus 

 a three-year old root consisted of six branchlets from the original 

 rootlet. This is interesting from the fact that in the more familiar 

 cases the aerial rootlets are annual, to wit : in the Poison Vine, in 

 Ampelopsis, and English Ivy. These well-known rootlets will, how- 

 ever, become permanent when occasionally finding rich material to 

 penetrate. Josiah Nicholson, a correspondent of Joseph Walton, resid- 

 ing in the vicinity of the grape vines, states that many of these roots 

 die annually, and he knows of none that have gone down from any 

 distance and reached the earth as the Banyan and Mangrove do. 

 An acquaintance of Josiah Nicholson's says that when a vine with 

 these rootlets falls to the ground, they will enter the earth, but not 

 by their tips, but by new rootlets from the surface of the older ones. 



There will naturally be inquiry as to the function of these aerial 

 roots. The question has never been answered by the growers of the 

 grape under glass. The grape vine has never been found to be the 

 better or the worse for their production. In the case of these wild 




276 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



vines, the rootlets not reaching the ground, are probably function- 

 less. It is conceded that in })lants, as in animals, habits once con- 

 tracted become hereditary and continue long after the causes which 

 produced them have ceased to exist. If the ancestors of the grape 

 were geotropic, the stems, rhizome-like, creeping along the ground 

 and rooting from the nodes, l)efore the tendril-climbing habit was 

 formed, we could say with some certainty that the aerial rooting 

 habit now occasionally seen, is the remains of the early habit not 

 yet wholly obliterated. It is indeed probable that the ancestors of 

 the grape were rhizomatous or creeping, and that the present stem 

 of the grape vine, now elevated by the tendril-climbing habit, in 

 former times was supported by the earth alone. 



Additional Note on the Order of Flowering in the 

 Catkins of Willows. 



At p. 267 of the Proceedings of the Academy for 1890, I noted 

 the curious fact that in the male aments of willows the stamens 

 develop from the center of the catkin first, and that growth follows 

 upwards and downwards simultaneously from that point. 



This season I have extended my observations to other species I 

 had not before examined, with the same result. It is probably the 

 rule with all willows. 



I had not noticed the behaviour of the female aments till this 

 season. It is well worth noting that this rule does not prevail in 

 them, at least in three species, all I could examine. Here the 

 stigmas appear mature simultaneously over the whole ament. No 

 reason for this difference in character between the male and female 

 aments suggests itself. 



Self-Fertilizing Flowers. 



A long list of flowers which cannot use their own pollen has been 

 placed on record, as well as of plants that depend on insects or out- 

 side agencies for the use of their own pollen. There are also flowei's 

 which, capable of using their own pollen in a late stage of anthesis, 

 are so constructed, as regards the relative maturity of stamens or 

 pistils, that they may be fertilized by foreign pollen before being 

 able to use their own. The records of all these make important 

 material for philosophical strictures. The author of this paper has 

 performed his own share in this work. 




1891.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 277 



It is a continual thought with him, however, that the facts which 

 bear on self-fertilization deserve equal prominence. It is a line in 

 which there seems to be few workers. The following additions to 

 others already recorded are offered, not because cases of absolute self- 

 fertilization are unfrequent, but because a study of these particular 

 instances developed other facts of interest in the study of plant life 

 as Avell worth recording as the mere fact that they are self-fertilizers. 



Symplocarpus fcetidus. — So much has been said of the relations 

 between insects and flowers, — even a structure so peculiarly arranged 

 as the skunk cabbage, Symplocarpus fietidiis, being claimed as an 

 illustration of some close relation — that I devoted a half-day of the 

 22nd of February to a thorough examination of plants growing in 

 the Avoods and swamps within a short distance of my residence 

 in Germantown. I gained some facts in addition to those recorded in 

 the chapter on this plant in my " Flowers and Ferns of the United 

 States," vol. I, series 1., p. 57 et seq., 1878. It was there shown that 

 the sexual character of the plant is variable, and that the herma- 

 phrodite condition, as distinguishing the genus and its allies from 

 their monoecious relatives, was a very slender line. A difl^erence 

 was noted in the relative maturity of stamens and pistils. Some- 

 times the stamens matured before the pistils, or, technically, the 

 flowers would be proterandrous, at others the pistil matures days 

 before the stamens, when the flowers are proterogenous. At that time 

 I thought, as the result of the examination of a few flowers each season, 

 that this difl^erence was caused by the peculiarities of the season. The 

 result of the examination of many flowers on the afternoon mentioned 

 shows an almost equal number of both forms. Both thus existing at 

 the same time and under the same conditions of temperature, the cir- 

 cumstances being in fact exactly the same, shows the difference to 

 be of an innate character, and tending towards unisexuality. In- 

 deed, so far as one may be justified by analogy in similar cases, and 

 in the absence of an accual test by marking the plants and waiting 

 for results, we may risk saying of the species that it is dioecious. 

 If this be not the case, it is certainly tending towards dioecism. 



In the one case the pistil pushes through the perianth, extending 

 a full line beyond, and is capped by its beautiful head of stellate 

 hair. No sign of the stamens is visible, though the pistil has evi- 

 dently been protruded for several days, as it has lost the little glob- 

 ule of moisture that envelops it on its first appearance. 




278 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



In the other case, the swelling anthers part the perianth segments, 

 and exhibit the apex of the pistil nestling among the anthers. 

 Finally the apex of the pistil, in company with one stamen, is pro- 

 truded barely beyond where the pistil remains, but the stamen con- 

 tinues until the whole of the comparatively large anther extends 

 beyond the perianth. The other three stamen's follow the next day. 



Certainly on one plant are flowers in w'hich all the stamens are 

 in advance of the pistils, and are very vigorous, while on other 

 plants the pistil is in advance and comparatively strong, differences 

 which in other species are associated w'ith fertility or infertility, or, 

 as we say, render the plants practically dioecious. 



These conclusions are reached in face of the fact that they render 

 the problem of fertilization still more difficult of solution. Akhough 

 the dry pollen Avould indicate an aneraophilous species, the manner 

 in which the spathe is coiled around the spadix must render it next 

 to impossible for the wind to be a material agent in carrying pollen 

 to separate plants. As for insects, though I have seen a few flies on 

 exceptionally warm spring days aiaong the flowers, and other 

 observers have noted similar insect visitors, these visits can be far 

 from as general as we must demand before we can assign them any 

 important part in a system of cross-fertilization. On the whole of 

 the afternoon of Feb. 22nd, though they were the special object of 

 the afternoon's search, the thermometer indicating 52° Fahr., no 

 winged insect of any kind was seen. I cannot think that either 

 insects or the wind have any material agency in fertilizing these 

 flowers. As, however, I know that some plants in the vicinity of 

 the examination bear an abundance of seed, the probability is that 

 some individuals have flowers in which perfect hermaphroditism 

 prevails, and that these are self-fertilizing. 



The great variation in the color and form of the spathes and 

 spadices of this plant has been often noticed. It is worthy of remark, 

 however, that through all the changes, the striped and splashed 

 character of the tints remains. The spathe may be either almost 

 Avholly yellowish-green, or purple, there will generally be strise of 

 one or the other color splashed over the surface. 



In one case a flower was found with a double spathe, as is occa- 

 sionally seen in the common garden Calla, Hichardia Africana. The 

 explanation given in the latter case is that the flower stem is but 

 a consolidated mass of leaf-stalks, in which the blades of all but 




1891.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



279 



the white spathe have been suppressed. There is no reason, therefore 

 why these suppressed blades should not 

 occasionally appear. The case of 

 Symploearpus shows the inflorescence to 

 be also formed by the consolidation of 

 several leaves, of which a second l)lade 

 has been advanced though usually sup- 

 pressed. This is the first case that I have 

 heard of, but there is no reason why they 

 should not be oftener found if looked for. 

 It may not be out of place to repeat 

 what I have already noted in the chapter 

 above cited that the flowers are odorless, 

 the foetid smell being given off only when 

 the leaf or stem is broken. These facts 

 were again confirmed on this occasion, 

 showing the speculations that have been 

 offered concerning the "carrion like odor" 

 of the flowers as an attraction to carrion 

 flies, to be, like many similar speculations, 

 figments of overwrought enthusiasm. 

 Portulaca pilosa, L. — This is everywhere classed as an annual 

 except by DeCandolle (Prodromus 3, p. 354) where it is classed as 

 either annual or biennial. Among a collection of dried specimens 

 brought by my wife from Punto Gorda, Florida, in the winter of 

 1887, I found a specimen- with life and planted it in a flower pot, 

 where it has continued to grow and flower annuallv. Xow four 

 years old, it seems likely to live for an indefinite period. 



Its flowers open only, according to all authors before me, under 

 bright sunshine, and then merely for a very brief period. De Can- 

 dolle says it opens only between ten and twelve. Don, hoAvever, 

 (Ed. of Miller, Vol. Ill, p. 74), notes that this is only true of days 

 when the sun is out. Engelmann, " Plantse Lindheimerianfe p. 155," 

 observes that in bright sunshine it opens from 9 to 11 or 12, and at 

 the same time notes that the neighboring P. Gilliesii Hook., origi- 

 nally from Chili, common in cultivation, opens from 8 or 9, to 2 or 

 3 P. M. in sunshine. My plant has never been set in bright sun- 

 shine, and thus the flowers which are produced abundautlv and seed 




280 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



freely, have never opened.' They must of course, be arranged for 

 self-pollination, or they could not seed so perfectly. Opening only 

 in bright sunshine in their country, and no one flower opening twice, 

 a large number of those growing in their natural places must of 

 necessity also be close-fertilized. 



The inquiry which these facts suggest is whether the chance for 

 cross-fertilization could have been much of an object in nature in 

 the arrangement for the opening of the flowers. It is a well known 

 fact, that of the immense number of seeds produced by any one plant 

 of any kind, but a very small number escape the chapter of accidents 

 and reproduce a plant, [f cross-fertilization were so desirable, it 

 would seem that the flowers should have a better chance for efifect- 

 ing it than the brief period of daily opening, and limited, at this, 

 to the few moments bright sunshine afll^ords. As the facts stand, the 

 greater proportion of seeds in this species are the product of close and 

 not cross-fertilization. 



To this fact we have to add that the expanding flowers do not 

 seem to my mind to favor cross-pollination. The seed is most prob- 

 ably from close-fertilization in the expanded as well as in those 

 which seed without expanding. I placed on record, Gardener's and 

 Landsteward's Journal, 1845, that the stamens o( Portulaca grandi- 

 jiora—a, mere form probably of P. Gilliesii — were irritable, and in 

 1878 (Proceedings of Ac. Nat. Sciences, 1878, p. 332) that the 

 stamens of the common Purslane, are irritable also. Close 

 observations have frequently been made on these flowers, because of 

 irritability of a precisely similar character in Opuntia and other 

 Cactacese. But in none of these observations has there been any 

 suggestion of design or adaptation to cross-])ollination by inject or 

 other agency. 



The leading object of this paper is not, however, to show the rela- 

 tion which the behaviour of these flowers bears to speculations on 

 cross-fertilization, but to point out in how many particulars the 

 character of some Portulacacese resembles some Cactacese." A large 

 number of the latter open only for a single day, and for a few hours, 

 under sunshine, during that day. In my experience a lai'ge number 



1 Aubrey H. Smith, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1867, p. 18, notes that the 

 flowers on the introduced plants near Philadelphia, had " fruit imperfectly devel- 

 oped." The undeveloped flowers probably created this impression. I have little 

 doubt but that later the seed would have been found abundant and perfect. 



* See also paper on this subject, Proc. Ac. Nat. Sciences, Phila., 1883, p. 84. 




1891.] NATURAL SCIKNCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 281 



never expand their petals, and the sexual organs are well {protected 

 from wind and from insects, but seed just as well. The bulk of the 

 seed certainly, if not the whole probably, are tl,ie result of close- 

 pollination. Again we have the resemblance in the irritable stamens, 

 in the succulence, and many other characters. It is fair to assume 

 that both families have had a close derivation, and if we would search 

 for the object of nature in so limiting the duration and period of 

 opening and yet with a resulting productiveness, we should probably 

 have to look back in the past to some necessity common to both 

 families, and which does not exist at the present time. 



Ciiphea Zimpani. — Observing that with scarcely an exception the 

 flowers of the annual species of Cuphea were fertile, I Avas led to look 

 for the evidence of self-fertility in C. Zimpani in bloom in my garden, 

 and found that it was so arranged that the reception of any pollen 

 but its own was evidently impossible. An examination of the tlower 

 soon after the expansion of the limb would lead to the inference that 

 it was arranged for cross-pollination. The two bearded stamens are 

 abundantly polliuiferous, while it is evident by the thick bearded 

 mass below that the communication between stamen and pistil is com- 

 pletely cut oif. Between the two large upper petals, however, the 

 calyx forms a sort of sheath, down which an insect in search of honey, 

 and not gifted with the tube-splitting habits of the humble-bee, 

 would no doubt thrust its proboscis. It would be natural to suppose 

 an insect thus examining a flower, would carry pollen to the next. 

 But an examination of this sheath will show that the stigma cannot 

 be reached in this Avay. That and the four other anthers remain 

 coiled away in a nest of downy hair, which is at once the cradle and 

 the grave of both. A more perfect adaptation for self-fertilization 

 is seldom seen. 



Daphne Cneoram. — Though I have seen this under cultivation for 

 half a century, I have never known it to produce a seed. The 

 flowers seem well arranged for self-pollination. The mouth of the 

 tube is efiectually closed by four anthers abundantly polliuiferous, 

 and the next day the second series of four below, also burst their 

 sacs. The exposure of pollen is simultaneous with the expansion 

 of the limb, and it seems next to impossible that foreign pollen 

 should reach the stigma. The short style and stigma at the base of 

 the tube seem perfect, but I have never been able to detect any 

 pollen on the stigma. It is highly gelatinous and does not separate 

 readily from the anther-cell. It looks as if it might be necessary 



19 




'262 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



for an insect to carry the pollen to the stigma, aiding in self-pollina- 

 tion as in Yucca and other plants. The tube is too long for the honey- 

 bee, and the humble-bee slits the tube even before the flower opens, 

 thus wholly avoiding contact with the stamens. It may be that in 

 its native places self-pollination is aided by long-tongued lepidoptera, 

 but this suggestion places the plant at a disadvantage in the 

 "struggle for life" as it cannot travel as a self-fertilizer does. 



" He that fights, and runs away. 

 May live to fight another day," 



does not apply to a plant, which cannot run. 



Lopezia coronata. — That Lopezia coronata Andrews, a Mexican 

 Onagracese common in cultivation, is a self-fertilizer, I am confident 

 from the fact that every flower is fertile, and this is equally true of 

 plants growing in green-houses where insects and currents of air are 

 wholly excluded, as when growing in the open air. But I have been 

 baffled in endeavoring to ascertain how the flowers own pollen, or the 

 pollen of a neighboring flower, which, as is well shown by Mr. Darwin, 

 is practically the same thing, reaches the stigma. To one who had 

 not been assured of self-fertilizatioii from the actual facts, the flowers 

 ■would seem as perfectly arranged for cross-pollination as it is })ossible 

 to be. In the early stages of the bud, before anthesis, the large single 

 anther is introrse. It is sheathed by the blade of the petaloid 

 stamen, and its own filament sheathes the style. At anthesis the 

 connective twists, and the anther turns its back on the style. The 

 anther cells burst at once, and some of the pollen undoubtedly falls 

 on the apex of the style. The stamen soon recurves, until the 

 face of the anther rests upon one of the sepals. At this time, how- 

 ever, the first day of opening, the apex can scarcely be called a 

 stigma, for it is not till the second day that the globular, capitate, 

 and capillate head, properly deserving of the name of stigma, is 

 developed. Looking at the relative positions of stamen and stigma 

 at this period, and when the latter might be regarded as in receptive 

 condition, one might readily conclude it impossible that the flower 

 could be individually self-pollinated. The next day the fading 

 sepals and petals coil upwards and enfold the style and stigma. 

 Whether the pollen which falls on the immature apex of the style at 

 anthesis remains there till the stigma matures, or whether the pollen 

 which has been scattered over the petals and sepals is brought up 

 when the fading petals incurve may well be a question. Possibly, 

 as before noted, its falls from the flower above. 




1891.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PIIILADELPIIIA. 283 



Certainly pollination is not effected by insect agency, and the chief 

 point of this chapter is to show how error may creep in by mere 

 speculations on the arrangement of the parts. Here is a ca.se where 

 one might well believe the arrangements were nicely adapted to 

 pollination by insect agency, when in fact the plant in some way 

 not clear, but certainly, is self-fertile. 




284 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1891. 



ON PAKAMELACONITE, AND THE ASSOCIATED MINERALS. 

 BY GEORGE A. KOENIG. 



On his recent visit to the Copper Queen Mine at Bisby, Arizona, 

 Dr. A. E. Foote obtained possession of two specimens showing 

 crystals, which he could not associate with any known species 

 except Anatase. The locality and association, however, speak 

 strongly against the presence of that or any other form of the 

 Titanium dioxide. These specimens have since passed into the 

 collection of Mr. Clarence S. Bement who has kindly permitted me 

 to examine and study them. 



One of these specimens has been deemed of sufficient im})ortance 

 to be represented in the adjoining figure as a whole, to show the 

 relation of the associated minerals. It is drawn to natural scale. 



We see as the central figure a monolithic crystal (A) lying flat up- 

 on the supporting surface, but so that the pyramidal termination is 

 entirely free and symmetrically developed. To the left there are 

 three more pyramidal crystals of the same kind, but of smaller 

 stature. These crystals are characterized by the most brilliant 

 metallic adamantine luster, and purplish-black color. The crystals 

 stand in relief against a back ground of minute acicular crystals of 

 deep blue color (B). Upon the crystals are patches of a beautiful 

 light greenish or silvery-white substance, which have not been in- 

 dividualized in the drawing, as color only could bring them out 

 properly. The nature of both these substances will be discussed be- 




1891.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 285 



low. Uuder (C) are represeuted small, brownish-black niamillie 

 of limonite, shown in section at (D), exhibiting a distinct radial 

 structure. This layer of limonite passes rapidly into a granular 

 mixture of limonite and cuprite (E) of brownish-red color and in 

 this we see imbedded at (F, 0) crystals of native copper. Since 

 ■we find both blue crystals and silvery patches on the large crystals, 

 the genetic relation appears as follows, E, F & D, C, A, B. 



The second specimen is about 3x4 inches in size. It looks as if 

 it had formed at one time a part of the same large slab of which the 

 first specimen is a fragment. Some twenty odd beautiful crystals 

 like (A) but of smaller size, not over 2 inch in length, are either lying 

 flat or stand erect upon the mamillar}' mixture of limonite and 

 cuprite. One large blue crystal (B) and several bundles of the same 

 are stretched across the black crystals. The latter are covered in 

 part, mostly upon the strongly striated faces with the gi^eenish- 

 silvery substance mentioned above, which coating produces the 

 impression of a patina on dark bronze. 



1. The black crystals. — Symmetry. The habitus is strongly tetra- 

 gonal. Each crystal represents uniformly a combination of (001) 

 (111) (110). The plane (001) is very generally square, sometimes 

 a narrow oblong. The pyramidal faces are broad and smooth at the 

 apex, but are invariably striated parallel to the main plane of sym- 

 metry. The luster is so strong on these planes, that one easily over- 

 looks this striation ; but it shows with a small magnifying power. 

 One or two pyramidal faces are usually broader than the others. In 

 one of the measured crystals one face is 4 mm., two 2 mm. ; one 1 mm. 

 The horizontal edges are generally the .resultants of combination 

 of pyramid with prism. I have noticed, however, in a few crystals 

 these edges formed by pyramidal faces alone. The habitus and 

 color of these crystals strongly resemble that of the black or blue- 

 black Anatase. All this might be deceptive, however. To deter- 

 mine the symmetry three crystals were measured, two of the larger 

 (20 mm.) one verv small one (2 mm.) 



Whilst the faces are very splendent, the striation causes multiple 

 images, sometimes of equal luminosity, and sometimes a mere shredded 

 spectrum. Descloizeaux's artifice of covering the faces gave only a 

 partial relief. It seems to be safest, therefore, that I record here the 

 reflection images observed, and give my readers the opportunity, as well 

 as the means, to decide whether my interpretation of the observed 

 facts is, under the circumstances, the correct one. 




286 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



In the following figure 2, I have reiiroclueed the observed images 

 obtained from the two larger crystals : 



T "W" T 1 •"niniiKW I If f «" I' ' 



"" nil" 'Mipr "s ■?"s"= 



yuf'j'tl^one iA"? Z 



■"JpHf.. ^-^^----f- SZ'-^7 



Fig. 2. 



The inspection of this figure seems to allow but one interpretation, 

 to wit that the symmetry is tetragonal and that the angle (001) : 

 (111) = 58° 50'. Now we have for Anatase according to V. Kock- 

 scharow (001) : (101) = 60° 38' a diflference of 1° 48'. 



Does this mean isomorphism of the two species ? The Anatase of 

 some localities shows only one pyramid but the cleavage is parallel 

 to this pyramid and it is made the fundamental pyramid for this 

 reason. I have not been able to trace any cleavage planes in the 

 crystals under discussion. Neither basal nor pyramidal nor pris- 

 matic. This seems to oppose the notion of isomoi'phism. Assum- 

 ing the observed pyramid as (101) then the primary pyramid follows 

 with 66° 58' 12" 



and C = 1-6643. 



against C = r7799 in Anatase. 



I have taken, of course, V. KockscharoAv's value, because I obtained 

 from a very fine Brazilian anatase (Mr. Bement's collection) for the 

 basal edge.' 43° 20' (Koenig.) (43° 24' V. Kockscharow.) Groth 

 bases his C value 1*7344 (Tabell. Uebers. 3 Aufl.) on a much larger 

 anffle. 




1891.] NATUKAI. SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 287 



The hardness of the miueral on the smooth basal plane wa* found 

 equal to that of Apatite. The color on the faces is purjjlish-black, 

 on the fi'acture pitch-black. The fracture is uneven, to flat eon- 

 choidal. The luster is brilliant metallic-adamantine. The substance 

 is opaque. The streak is black. The specific gravity was found at 

 20° C = 5-833. The determination made with 0-8487 g. in Pyknom- 

 eter. The entire crystals, weighing 1-132 g., gave on Jolly's bal- 

 ance two readings, of which the above is the arithmetic mean. Unless 

 crystals, weighing at least 3 grs. be used, the values derived from 

 Jolly's balance are not sufficiently reliable, according to my experi- 

 ence. 



In a strong oxidizing flame, a spUnter of the mineral is rounded at 

 the edges. In reducing flame, melts easily and yields metallic copper. 

 With the fluxes a blue glass in O fl. Dissolves in HCl Avith a yellow, 

 in NHO' with a blue color. With NHXHO) a very slight brown 

 precipitate. 



A prehminary analysis made with 48*2 mg. gave CuO =^ 46-1 

 Fe'"0* = 2-0. It is evident in this instance that the iron does not 

 belong to the mineral, as the greater part of it was left undissolved l)y 

 dilute nitric acid as a brown red, scaly powder, therefore, probably 

 Hematite. The material used in determining the specific gravity 

 was crushed in a steel mortar. It was then seen that the mate- 

 rial was not homogeneous. Whilst the large bulk was black, there 

 could be seen three red spots. They denoted the presence of cuprite, 

 which, of course, Avas not strange since the mineral sits on cuprite. 

 It was not thought advisable to remove this admixed cuprite mech- 

 anically. But if really the mineral is CuO, then the analysis nuist 

 give an excess if Cu'O be present. 



0-2031 gr. gave 0-2045 Cu'S. 

 0-0014 Fe'^Ol 



CuO = 100-58 

 Fe-'O' = 0-64 



101-32 



Here is then an excess of 1-32, which is Oxygen, and this corre- 

 sponds to 11-8 of Cu'O. 




288 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



The substance of the crystal would thus appear to be a 

 mixture of 



CuO = 87.66 

 Cu^'0 = 11-70 

 Fe'O^'^ 0-64 



100-00 

 It is a matter of very common observation that large crystals en- 

 close bodies of a different nature, sometimes even force them to 

 participate in the mass arrangement of the predominating molecule. 

 I can find nothing which suggests a process of alteration of either 

 Cu'^0 into CuO or the reverse. There is neither metamorphosis nor 

 pseudomorphosis in this case. The black crystals belong sub- 

 stantially to what mineralogists have heretofore called Melaconite 

 or Tenorite. The latest crystallographic work on the form of 

 Tenorite — Melaconite is by Ernst Kalkowsky (Groth. Zeitschr., Vol. 

 3, p. 279). This author shows by a recalculation that the angular 

 values obtained by Jentsch (Ann.d. Phys u. Chem., Vol. 17) on the 

 crystallized oxyde of Copper occurring as a furnace product at 

 Freiberg, must be considered as identical with those of Maskelyne 

 (Report British Association, 1865) on very minute crystals from 

 Lostwithiel. Jentsch was mistaken in assuming its orthorhombic 

 svmnietry ami isomorphism Avith Brookite. But while Maskelyne 

 finds the crystals from Lostwithiel as well as the thin lamellae from 

 Vesuvius to be mono symmetric, Kalkowsky comes to the conclusion, 

 on optical ground, that they are really asymmetric although closely 

 approaching the monosymmetric type. Groth (Tabell. Uebersicht, 

 3 Autl.) has adopted this view, in so far as he puts an interrogation 

 mark after the word "monosymmetric" and gives the explanation 

 referred to, in a note. He evidently does not believe in an isometric 

 form of CuO, — which Dana adopts (System of Mineral, Edition 5) 

 on the authority of J. D. Whitney. The latter had found (Rep. L. 

 Sup., 11-99) cubo-octahedrons of CuO and contended that they were 

 original and not pseudomorphs on the ground that Cuprite was 

 only observed at the same locality in unmodified octahedrons. Such 

 an argument can hardly be sustained. For the cubo-octahedral com- 

 bination is very common in Cuprite from nearly all known 

 localities. Among some magnificent specimens recently come from 

 the " Copper Queen Mine " I noticed cubo-octahedrons, although the 

 majority of the specimens showed the combination (Oil) (001) (111) 




1891.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



289 



(122). Unless some more convincing testimony be produced, we 

 are justified in discarding the isometric symmetry as pertaining to 

 CuO. Thus we have only the monosymmetric or possibly the 

 asymmetric system left for the species Melaconite or Tenorite. 

 Aside from all ])recedent, the tetragonal crystals are so unique in 

 their appearance, that they should be accorded the rank of a very 

 distinct species, and the name Faramelaconite is proposed for them. 

 Among the Melaconite in the collection of the Univemty, there is 

 a specimen with the locality " Arizona." It has been in the collec- 

 tion over twenty years, before the Copper-Queen Avas located, and 

 very probably is not from Bisby. It is a middle-grain sandstone 

 impregnated with minute black crystals. A similar specimen is in 

 ^Ir. Bement's collection. I had never examined it critically before, 

 surmismg that the form would be the same as that described by Mask- 

 kelyne. I find that these minute crystals, observed with a magiiif}^- 

 ing ])ower of 250 diam., show the same habitus, combination, luster 

 and color as the tetragonal crystals fi-om the Copper Queen. There 

 are thus two localities on record for the occurrence of Faramelaconite. 

 2. The blue aeicular crystals. Footeite — a chloro-oxyhydrate of 

 copper. — The material to work on was very scant. Dr. Foote sent me 

 ])roken off cr}-stals from which I was enabled to pick 

 out about 25 mg. of pure material, with which quanti- 

 tative examinations were made. It was not deemed 

 advisable to disfigure the beautiful sf»ecimen (fig. 1) 

 for the sake of more material. None of the crystals 

 \\eigh over 1 mg. They are either simple or twins. 

 The simple ones represent six sided prisms with pyram- 

 idal terminations. The obHque character of the latter 

 is usually Avell marked. When examined yviih a 

 })ower of 150 diameters, it was found that the most 

 comj)lex combination is that represented in fig. 3. 




290 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



d wtui observed only in two crystals ; n is mostly quite small ; in and 

 o are always present. The habitus is often tabular, parallel to the 

 plane of symmetry. 



A p: p =49° (131°) 



A — : -^ = 36r (143r) 

 ^^ m p ^ -^ 



V — : J- = 33° (147°) 

 op 



These measurements are of course only approximate (being made 

 under the microscope) — the crystal lying on face II. The plane of 

 optical extinction encloses with edge p:p an angle of 7*°. Posi- 

 tive. The system is, therefore, clearly monosymmetric. 



The twins are either simple like the common form in Selenite, 

 that is composition face ao Poo rotation 180° ; or two such simple 

 t\vins perforate each other at right angles with the vertical axis 

 common to both. These form then combinations like those of 

 Harmotome. The broken offends of such twins show the re-enter- 

 ing angles indicating the existence of a basal cleavage. Heated in 

 a closed tube, a crystal turns black, without losing its shape or even 

 its luster and yields three sublimates. The uppermost is water, the 

 middle one is gray, the lower one green, after cooling. The color- 

 less flame takes the characteristic blue and green colors, Avhen a 

 crystal is brought within its borders. On charcoal the same color 

 phenomena, no smell of arsenic. The tests for sulphuric and 

 phosphoric acids result negatively. 



For the quantitative analysis onl}^ 16'5 mg. were available. This 

 material was placed without pulverizing it, in a mixture of Ag 

 NO' and dil. XHO' and digested at about 50°C. The crystals 

 turned white at once and were gradually converted into veritable 

 pseudomorphs of AgCl after the original mineral. They were then 

 broken up, to make sure that a complete decomposition had taken 

 places. AgCl was then filtered upon a 20 mm. filter. From the 

 filtrate the excess of Ag was removed BaCl" added and allowed to 

 stand over niglit. Then filtered. Ba removed and Cu precip. by 

 H^S. The precipitate was dark brown-black. No arsenic present. 

 The filtrate boiled, made ammoniacal, filtered, and to filtrate MgCP 

 added. No precipitate. Absent P"0^ The weights obtained were : 

 Ag = 3"5 mg ; ashes from BaCP precip. = 0"2 mg. 

 CuO = 11*8 mg ; ashes with C'^O^ = 0"1 mg. 




1891.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 291 



From these figures is deduced the percentage composition. 



CuO =63-7=-- 8-121 



CuCP = 13-5 = 1-00 \ Molecules. 



WO = 22-8 = 12-6 j 



100-0 

 Hence 8 [Cu (OH)'^] CuCP + 4 ffO. 



Footeite has, therefore, as its nearest relative the Thallingite of 

 Church. In the latter the ratio of Cu (HO)' : CuCl'"' is 4 : 1. 



3. Malachite, asbestiform. — It would have been impossible to get 

 enough material with which to identify the peculiar greenish silvery 

 coating from the malaconite specimens. Fortunately there Avas an- 

 other specimen of mixed limonite and cuprite, the entire surface of 

 which had such a coating. Here we find it like the finest lint in the 

 depressions of the specimens. The crystals of which this lint-hke 

 material is composed, are not fa.^t to the sui-face on which they lie. 

 With the least touch, whole flakes are detached ; but even a big flake 

 will barely weigh one milligram. ITnder the microscope, the compos- 

 ing crystals can be seen to be needles, tabular, parallel to the clino- 

 pinacoid and showing in fact a habitus like tlie crystals obtained from 

 a boiling solution of calcium sulphate. Each one individualized is 

 light greenish in color and polarizes strongly. The silky metallic 

 luster and wliite color of the flakes must be o\N-ing to interference 

 phenomena. 



Brought into a colorless flame, the flake turns shining black and 

 fringes the seams of the flame yellowish red like calcium salts. 

 Neither blue or green colors are visible. The mineral does not con- 

 tain chlorine. No sulphur present. I managed to get~10 mg. of the 

 clean material ; that is to say with 150 diameters I could distinguish 

 a few brown particles of cuprite-limonite only. 



This quantity gave 



Ignition at beginning of cherry-red heat 3-0 mgs. 



Fe'^0' 0-1 mg. 

 CuO 6-9 mg. 



10-0 

 The above composition is exactly that of malachite, and all would 

 be satisfactory if it wei-e not for the color of the flame, for which I can 

 find no explanation. 




292 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



MEXICAN GRASSES. 

 BY F. LAMSON-SCFvIBNER. 



I. Species Collected in 1890, by Mr. C. G. Pr ingle. 



1. (3447). Tripsacum fasciculatum Trin.. Aschers. in Bot. Zeit. 1877, p. 525: 



Fouru. Mex., PI. Enum. (jram., p. 69. 



Ledges, San Jose Pass, fifty miles northeast of San Luis Potosi. 

 August 15. 



2. (3135). Erianthus saccharoMes Mx., var. Trinii Hack, in Mart, et Eichl. Flor. 



Bras. II, Pars 3. ].. 25S. 



Nodes witli a ring of short appre.ssed hairs, pruinose or shining 

 below. Panicle about 30 cm. long, its base (in our specimen) in- 

 cluded in the uppermost leaf-sheath, the blade of which is very nar- 

 row and about 10 cm. long. Pedicels about f as long as the spike- 

 lets, thickened above, long pilo.se. Sessile spikelet 6 mm. long, 

 outer glume shortly bimucronate ; first glume 2-keeled, scabrous on 

 the keels above, 4-nerved, pilose on the back ; second glume scabrous 

 on the keel near the apex and with a few long hairs on the back be- 

 low, 5-nerved, ciliate on the iuflexed, hyaline margins ; fourth glume 

 lanceolate, ciliate on the margins above, two-toothed ; awn about 9 

 mm. long. Anthers r-5-l"8 mm. long, falling from the spikelets. 

 Styles as long as the stigmas which are exserted at maturity. 



The dull white color and length of the panicle, its base enclo.sed 

 in the sheath of the uj^permost leaf, the hairs upon the outer 

 glumes, the hyaline and ciliate inflexed margins of the second glume, 

 and the ciliate margins of the fourth, ail point to Erianthus Trinii 

 Hack. (Monog. Androp., p. 135), but the exserted styles and length 

 of the anthers — characters used to sejiarate E. Trinii from E. sac- 

 charoides by Hackel — point to the last named species. These char- 

 acters are doubtless variable and do not deserve to have so much 

 value attached to them. After having made a very careful study 

 of the material in my herbarium in connection with the descriptions 

 given by Hackel (Monog., pp. 129, 135) of E. saceharoides and E. 

 Trinii, I fail to find any valid character among those given to define 

 these species, which is not broken down or lost in the descriptions 

 given of the several varieties or subspecies enumerated. I have, 

 therefore, preferred to regard it as only a variety. E. saceharoides 

 var. contortus (made a subsjiecies by Hackel) has, I think, better or 

 stronger claims to rank as a species than has E. Trinii. 



Mountain sides, Tamasopo Canon. June 24. 




1891.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 29-3 



3. (3132). Rottboellia compressa, Linn. fil. Supjil., ].. 114, var. fasciculata: 



Hack. Monog. Androp., p. 286. Hetnarthria fasciculata Kunth. Revis. 

 (xrain. I, p. I.j2 : Foiirn. !Mex. PI. Enuni.. (Irani., p. 67: Vapev Contr. U. 

 S. Nat. Herb, ir, p. 58. 



About ledges of a ca.scade at the head of Taniasopo Canon in the 

 mountains midway between San Luis Potosi and Tampico. June 

 24. 



4. (3134). Andropogon condensatus Kunth. in HliK. Nov. Gen. T. ji. 188, var. 



paniculatus Hack, in Mart, et Eiehl. Fl. Bras., Vol. II. pars 3, p. 297 : 

 .Monojr. Androp., p. .388. A. paniculatus Kth., .'^. Lhotzkyi Steud.; 

 Fourn.. I'l. Mex. Enum., Gram., p. 61. 



On exposed, cool ledges of mountain .sides above Tamasopo Caiion. 

 June 24. 



5. 1 3446). Andropogon macrourus Michx., var. corymbosus Hack. Monog. 



Andro]!.. p. 4(l'.t. 



Exposed slo2:)es, Tamasopo Caiion. June 24. 



6. i3128). Hilaria cenchroides HKK.. var. ciliatus var. nov. 



Culms slender, 35 cm. high ; spikes slender, about 3 cm. long. 

 Groups of spikelets 4-5 mm. long, pale green. Awns short, not ex- 

 tending beyond the lobes of the glumes, and conspicuously ciliate 

 along their .<ides with short spreading or deflexed hairs. There are 

 usually two awns between the lobes of the outer glumes of the 9 

 spikelet. 



Near Guadalajara. May 17. 



The genus Hilaria may be briefly characterized as follows : — 

 Spikelets sessile in groups of three at each joint of the zigzag con- 

 tinuous rachis, forming terminal spikes, the groups falling off entire. 

 The two outer or anterior spikelets $ and tAvo- to three-flowered ; the 

 posterior or inner one (next the racliis) 9 or $ and one-flowered. 

 Empty glumes mucli firmer in texture than the others, inequilateral, 

 many nerved, more or less connate below, entire at apex or more 

 often divided, usually unequally two-lobed, with one to several inter- 

 mediate awns or awn-like divisions. 



Hilaria cenchroides is a low, stoloniferous grass and presents con- 

 siderable variation in the length and breadth of its leaves, and espe- 

 cially in the size of the spikelets, breadth of glumes and their 

 divisions, length of aw' ns, etc. In some forms the outer glumes are 

 pale green with rcseate, scarious tips, while in others these glumes 

 are more or less thickly covered with dark purple, punctate dots. 



E. Palmer's specimens (No. 197, coll. 1886) are nearly tyjjical, 

 very closely resembhng the illustration in HBK. Nov. Gen. et Sp. I, 

 t. 37. Pringle's specimens of 1885 (No. 493) differ but little from 




294 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



this. Palmer's No. 347 (1887) is less markedly stoloniferous, taller 

 aud more slender throughout with longer leaves. It is essentially 

 the same form as that named by Dr. Vasey, H. ceiichroides var. 

 Texana (Grasses of the Southwest, Part. I, PI. X). In the figure 

 of this last, the outer glumes of the spikelels are represented as 

 scabrous, as they certainly are in my specimens, although in the de- 

 scriptions they are said to be "smooth." 



In Pringle's No. 3128 the spikelets are decidedly shorter than in 

 any other form I have seen, as are also the awns, and these are re- 

 markable in that they are ciliate along their edges (see fig. 2a, 

 Plate XIII.) 



In Mexico, H. ceiichroides is used in decoction as a popular 

 remedy to purify the blood especially in cases of skin disease. 

 (Bull.Torr. Bot. Club, XIV, p. 100). 



7. (3133). Arundinella Deppeana Nees in Boniihimlia, 1S55, p. 84. Steud. Syn. 

 Gram., p. 115; Fourn. Mex., PI. Enuiu., (Jram., p. 54. Same as 1552 C. 

 Wright, Cuban collection (^. Cubensis (iriseb. PI. Wr., p. 53;5). No. 

 2615 Pringle, 1889, is the same. 



Hemsley (Biol. Contr. Am. Bot. Ill, p. 252) unites A. Auletica Rupr. 

 and A. latifolia and A. scop iria Fourn. with A. Deppeana. 



First glume about as long as the third (2"2-2-5 mm.) acuminate- 

 pointed, scabrous on the keel above, 3-nerved ; third glume 3'5-3'8 

 mm. long, 5-nerved below, drawn out to a narrow and truncate or 

 emarginate apex ; fourth glume about 1*8 mm. long (including the 

 obtuse and hairy callus). Awn very slender, about 9 mm. long, not 

 flattened nor twisted below*, once geniculate, bending at a point about 

 2 mm. above the glume (ch. ex. spec. Pringle). 



About the ledges of a cascade at the head of Tamasopo Canon in 

 the mountains midway between San Luis Potosi and Tampico. 

 June 24. 



I refer Pringle's No. 3133 to A. Deppeana from the characters 

 given by Fournier (1. c.) which it may be well to reproduce here. 

 "Culmo gracili, 3-pedali, foliis angustis, glaucis ssepe convolutis, 

 sumrao a panicula reraoto, glabris cum vaginis, ligula truncata, 

 pilosa ; pedicellis nudis, paniculte laxse radiis patulis infra remote 

 verticillatis, supra sparsis raris ; gluma superiore caudata inferiorem 

 suj^erante, aristse genu nunquam attingente, arista gracili, lequa, 

 glumam superiorem plus quam duplam iequanti, post maturum 

 florem refracta flexuosa." 



In Plant. Cubensium, Grisebach reduces A. Cubensis to A. Brasili- 

 ensis Kaddi, probably on account of the opinion expressed by Munro 




1891.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 295 



in regard to it. According to Triuius' figure (Icon. Gram, tal)., 

 266) of A. Brasiliensis, as well as the descriptions given of this 

 species, I must consider Pringle's plant distinct from it. A. Brasi- 

 liensis is a stouter grass with broader leaves, and tlie awns of the 

 spikelets are much shorter, stouter, strongly flattened and twisted 

 below the geniculation, similar to that shown in Plate XIII, figs. 

 9b and 9c, drawn from a spikelet of No. 1746 Pringle, 1888. 



8. 3129 I. Paspalum conjugatum Berg., Act. Helv. VII, p. 129, PI. 8 ; Trin, Icon. 



tab. 1111': ('hajiiu. So. Flor. Suppl.. p. 666: Vasev in Bull. Torr. Bot. 

 Club, XIII, p. 163. 



By streams at Las Canoas in the valley at the head of Tamasopo 

 Canon. July 8. 



9. (3343). Paspalum gracile Rudge?, Fourn. Mex. PI. Enum., Gram., j). a. 



Culms erect or ascending from a geniculate or subrepent base, 

 branched below, 20-35 cm. high. Leaves narrowly to broadly 

 lanceolate (3-8 cm. long by 1-1"5 cm. broad) acute, cordate at base, 

 thinly pilose on both sides and ciliate-scabrous on the margins ; 

 sheaths lax, pilose along the margins. Spikes 7-15, solitary or in 

 pairs along the main axis, spreading 1-3 cm. long, nearly sessile, 

 pilose in the axils ; rhachis flat, 2-3 mm. broad, scabrous on the 

 inner face and margins, back smooth. Spikelets pale greenish-white, 

 smooth, biseriate, appressed, obtuse, 2-2'3 mm. long ; pedicels about 

 O'o mm. long, jiilo.se-scabrous on the outer side. 



Wet meadows about Lake Patzcuaro. November 9. 



No. 240 Rusby, 1886, fjom Bolivia, is the same. 



According to Trinius (Panic. Gen., p. 78) Paspalum gracile 

 Rudge, is an exceedingly variable species, differing much in its 

 several forms in height of culm, length and breadth of leaves, 

 number and length of spikes, pubescence, etc. He describes the 

 spikelets as acute while in our plant they are obtuse. In other 

 respects the characters agree very well. Our i)lant should be com- 

 pared with P. pallidum HBK., which Trinius (1. c.) regarded as 

 only a low growing variety of P. gracile Rudge. No. 1696 Fendler, 

 from Venezuela, which was distributed as P. pallidum HBK. is 

 rather P. candidum HBK.: note the uni-seriate and obtuse spikelets, 

 characters which Kunth specially points out as distinguishing P. 

 candidum from P. pallidum. (HBK. Nov. Gen. et. Sp. I, p. 73). 



10. 3336). Panioum paspaloides Pers., PI. I, p. 81; Fourn. Mex. PI. Enum.. 



(iram., p. 18; Chapm. So. Fl.. Suppl., p. 666 : Va.sey Bull. 8 (Bot. Div. 

 U. S. Dept. Agr.) p. 23. 



Shallow water of Lake Patzcuaro, State of Michoacan. October 

 22. 




296 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891, 



The Indians gather this grass to feed their donkeys, oxen, etc., by 

 pulling out of the water the thick stems which are nearly six feet 



long (Pringle.) 



11. (3403). Panicum divaricatum Linn, in.- Elingr, PI. .Jam. Pugil., No. 9; 



Fourn. Mex. PI. Enum., Grain., p. 32; Chapm. So. Fl., p. 575; Vasey 

 Bull. 8 (Bot. Div. U. S. Dept. Agr.) p. 39. 



Very different from No. 1732, collection of 1888. 

 Ledges, Tamasopo Caiiou. July 1. 



12. (3449). Panicum hians Ell., var. purpurascens var. nov. 



The three lower glumes dark purple. Branches of the panicle 

 shorter, spikelets longer (nearly 3 mm.) and generall}' more crowded, 

 and outer glumes more obtuse than in the species as found in the 

 Southern States. Sparsely jiilose near the base of the leaves, other- 

 wise smooth throughout. 



Wet hollows in prairies of Flor de Maria, State of Mexico. Sep- 

 tember 4. — F. hiavs Ell. is remarkable for the unusually large, sub- 

 coriaceous and obovate palea of the neutral floret. 



13. (3452). Panicum sulcatum Aubl., PI. (iuian.. I, ).. 50: Griseb. Flor. Brit. 



West Iml., p. 547; Heiusl. Biol. Cent. Am., Botany, III, 496 (and p. 

 506 .sub Setaria). Setaria sulcata Raddi var., Fourn. Mex. PI. Enum,, 

 Gram., p. 42, 



Wet shaded ledges, Tamasopo Canon. September 30. 



14. (3320 1. Leersia hexandra Sw., Prod. FI. Ind, Oce., p, 21 ; Chaj.m. So. Fl., p. 



549; Fourn. ilex. PI. Enum., Gram., p. 2; -L. Mexicana HBK., Nov. 

 Gen. et. Sp., PI. I, p. 195. 



Shallow water. Lake Patzcuaro, State of Michoacan. October 25. 



15. (3274). Stipa tenuissima Trin. (corresponds with Havard's Texan sjieeimens 



so named by l>r. Vasey. Contbr. U. S. Herb. II, p. 55.) 



Culms slender, simple, erect from a perennial root, 60-80 cm. 

 high ; leaves slender filiform, elongated, scabrous ; ligule 2 mm. long ; 

 panicle 12-20 cm. long, slender, base enclosed in the upper leaf- 

 sheath, branches in threes or 'fives, erect, 1-5 cm. long. Empty 

 glumes with long-attenuated or subulate, hyaline and colorless tips, 

 about 1 mm. broad at the pur])lish base, three-nerved, lateral nerves 

 short ; the first glume 6*5-8'5 mm. long, the second usually a little 

 shorter ; pedicels strongly scabrous. Flowering glume 2 mm. long, 

 minutely tubercu late- roughened, crowned with a few short bristles 

 and with a line of short appressed hairs on the back below; callus 

 short and obtuse, pilose. Awn very slender 6-7 cm. long, minutely 

 scabrous, strongly geniculate at about 2 mm. from the base, the long 

 upper part flexuose. Palea rather delicate, less than one-half as long 

 as its glume. 




1891.] NATURAL 8CIENX'ES OF PHILADELPHIA. 207 



Cameras Pass, Coahuila, on limestone liills. September 20. 



Neither Hemsley nor Fournier recognize S. tenuissima Trin. as 

 Mexican. Among the species described by Fournier, Stipa snb- 

 ulata (Mex. PI. Euiim., Gram., p. 75) comes nearest to inchidiugour 

 grass according to the characters that are given, Trinius (Act. 

 Petrop. 1836, p. 36 and Stipac, p. 41) says of the South American 

 plant, (the type was collected in Mendoza) " radix fibrosa, annua. 

 Paniculne angustissimje tenera*, radiis subsolitariis." In our plant 

 the root is evidently perennial and the rays of the panicle are in 

 threes or fives; in all other respects, however, the excellent descrip- 

 tion given by Trinius for S. tenuissima applies most closely. 



16. (3316). Muhlenbergia Boargaei Fourn. Mex. PI. Enum., (Tram., jp. s6. (Same 



as 11 00 Bourgeau in herb, m.) 



Annual. Culms much branched and leafy below, slender and 

 naked above, 15-30 cm. high, Ligule acute, hyaline 3 mm, long. 

 Leaves flat, 1-3 cm, long, 1 mm, or less broad, very finely scabrous 

 on the margins and minutely pubescent on the upper side along the 

 nerves. Panicle 3-5 cm. long, rather narrow, branches solitary, 

 ascending, the lower ones l'5-2*5 cm, long. Empty glumes unequal, 

 the first lanceolate, acute, one-nerved, about 1*5 mm. long ; the second 

 much broader, 2 mm. long, three-nerved and acutely three-toothed at 

 the apex. Flowering glume 3 mm, long, pilose below at the back 

 and sides, scabrous above, awned just below the entire or bidentate 

 apex; awn 8-12 mm. long, scabrous and strongly flexuose. Callus 

 pilose. 



Prairies of Flor de Maria. September 4, 



In the closely allied M. ClomenaTr'm. (824Pringle 1886, and 932 

 Parry and Palmer 1878), the culms are usually about 8-12 cm, 

 high, the main axis of the short panicle and also its branches are 

 strongly flexuose, at least at maturity. The second empty glume 

 hardly 1*5 mm. long and scarcely exceeded by the flowering glume 

 which is broader in proportion to its length and more pilose than in 

 M. Bourgcei. 



17, (3444). Muhlenbergia SchafEheri Fourn. var. longiseta. {Af. Schaffneri 



.■^eribner, Bot. Gaz. IX, p. 187.1 



Empty glumes scarcely one-half the length of flowering glume, 

 awn 10-18 mm. long (2-3? times longer than the glume). The apex 

 of the flowering glume . is often bifid, the divisions setiform ; 

 <ii visions 0'5-l"5 mm. long. 

 20 




298 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1891. 



Foot hills of the Rio Hondo, ten miles west of the City of Mexico, 

 growing on thin soil of ledges. August 25. 



Fouruier (Mex. PI. Enum., (iram., p. 85) describing Ji. Schaffneri 

 says, "glumis insequalibus, inferiore profunde bidentata, brevi(jr, 

 superiore acuta iequaute spiculam ; palea inferiore Integra, subulato- 

 rostrata, seta a?quante spiculam." These characters include my M. 

 depauperata (Bot. Gaz. IX, 187), which, therefore, must be 

 abandoned. 

 18. (3477). MuMenbergia articulata, n. ?].. 



Perennial. Culms simple, erect, 60-80 cm. high, enveloped at the 

 base, as are also the numerous innovations, by the old, ])ersistent, 

 and somewhat compressed leaf-sheaths which are terminated by the 

 rigid ligules that project beyond the articulation where the fallen 

 blades were attached. Leaves elongated, folded, terete, filiform, the 

 upper one nearly equalling the panicle, smooth without, densely 

 strigose-pubescent within, distinctly articulated with 

 • the sheath. Sheaths finely pubescent on the back 

 above, at least when young, margins smooth, striate. 

 Ligule rigid, 6-10 mm. long, entire, distinctly two- 

 keeled, with broad, striate and decurrent margins, 

 persistent on the old sheaths after the blades have 

 fallen. Panicle pale-green or straw-colored, strict, 

 elongated (30-40 cm.), rather densely flowered ; 

 liranches numerous, short (2-4 cm.), erect. Spikelets 

 lanceolate, subterete, erect on slender pilose-scabrous 

 pedicels. Empty glumes lanceolate, acute, one- 

 nerved, ciliate-scabrous on the nerves above, the second 

 usually subulate-pointed and nearly as long as the 

 floret, the first a little shorter and narrower. Flower- 

 ing glume lanceolate, acute, 4-5 mm. long, three- 

 jr/fc»/a/a.'s'!uppe'^ nerved, slightly scabrous on the raid-nerve above and 

 siieath°Lg°LigiMl:Slioi"tly pilose autcriorly on the distinct callus; awn 

 ^helam^naT.' point strictly terminal, slender, subflexuose, 20-30 mm. 

 °nrwith''the" heath! lo^g- Palca lanceolate, acute, about as long as the 

 floral glume, two-nerved, nerves approximate, especially near the tip 

 where they are slightly scabrous, smooth below. 



Calcareous banks, Cardenas, State of San Luis Potosi. October 7. 



19. (3381 1. Perieilema crinitum Presl, in Rel. Hsenk. I, 2.3.3. t. 37 : Kunth Enum. 

 PI. I, p. 2:55: Fourn. Mex. PI. Enum.. Gram., ji. '.):'.. 



Spikelets one-flowered, the $ surrounded at the base with numerous 

 bristles or delicate bracts and a few $ spikelets. Flowering glume 




1891.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 299 



three-nerved, pilose at the base, long awned ; nerves of the palea 

 almost coalescing above. 



A slender, branched annual 20-80 cm. high, often rooting at the 

 lower joints; leaves long and delicate ; spikelets crowded in dense 

 clusters forming a more or less interrupted spike-like panicle, 8-20 

 cm. long. 



Shaded ledges of a barranca, near Guadalajara, State of Jalisco. 

 October and November. 



20. (3317). Sporobolus repens Presl, Rel. Ha;nk. I, 241. Vilfa repens Trin. 



Ajirost. I, ji. 80 : Fourn. Mex. PI. Enum., Gram., 101. Same as 3285. 

 Borgeau. 



Shallow ponds (then sterile and the stems and leaves floating on 

 the surface of the water), and in wet soil about the borders of these 

 (then i-ooting and fruiting), prairies of Flor de Maria, State of 

 Mexico. September 4. 



21. (3197). Sporobolus argutus Kunth, Enum. PI. I, p. 215: Vilfa argtitus Nees, 



Agr.ist. Bras. 395 : Trin. Agrost. I, p. 40 : Vilfa hiimifusa HBK. var. 

 B major, Fourn. Mex. I'l. Enum., Gram., p. 1)7. Same as 816 Pringle, 

 1886. 



Low meadows, Valley of Mexico, Federal District. July 27. 



22. (3130.) Sporobolus minutiflorus Link ?; Kunth, Enum. PI. I, p. 214. Vdfa 



minuttflora Trin. Agro.st. I, ]). 63; Doell Flor, Brs. fasc. LXXIX, p. 31. 



Culms 20-40 cm. high, slender. Leaves flat, 3 mm. or less broad, 

 3-10 cm. long. Ligule very short, ciliate. Panicle exserted, pyram- 

 idal, 8-16 cm. long ; branches solitary or (rarely) in pairs, the lower 

 ones 4-6 cm. long, naked below ; s])ikelets rather crowded above and 

 along the secondary branches on short unequal pedicels. Spikelets 

 1 mm. long; second glume about 0*5 mm. long, rounded, obtuse, 

 broader and a little longer than the first ; flowering glume and palea 

 equal, obtuse and nerveless. 



Thin soil of limestone ledges, hills above Las Canoas, State of San 

 •Luis Potosi. 



23.1,3335). Epicampes Bourgaei Fourn. 1 (Mex. PI. Enum., Gram., j), 88) : Sporo- 

 bolus complanatus Scribner, as distributed. 



Perennial. Culms rather stout, simple, erect, 1"5 mm. high, com- 

 pre.ssed below, smooth, nodes pruinose. Leaves with smooth carinate 

 sheaths longer than the internodes ; ligule delicate, hyaline, 10 mm. 

 long, acute or lacerated ; lamina elongated (60 cm.) attenuate- 

 pointed, flat, 3-6 mm. wide, scabrous on both sides and rough- 

 serrulate along the margins. Panicle diflS'use, 45 cm. long ; branches 

 irregularly scattered along the main rachis, capillary, naked below 




300 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



for one-half their length, the lower widely spreading, 10-15 cm. long, 

 shorter and more erect above. Spikelets not at all compressed, 

 1*5-2 mm. long, one-flowered. Empty glumes ovate or oblong, 

 obtuse, subequal, distinctly one-nerved, minutely roughened on the 

 back, equalling or a little shorter than the floret. Flowering glume 

 distinctly three-nerved, rather broadly obtuse, occasionally short- 

 mucronate pointed by the extension of the mid-nerve, smooth at the 

 base. Palea as long as its glume, two-nerved, embracing (not 

 adherent to) the caryopsis in fruit. Stamens three. Stigmas pro- 

 jecting from the sides of the floret. Fruit a caryopsis, smooth, sub- 

 terete, obtuse, nearly as long as the fruiting glume and loosely held 

 in the floret by the broad margins of the palea. (PI. XIII, figs. 

 4-4dj. 



Under cool cliffs of a barranca, near Guadalajara, State of Jalisco. 

 November 3. 



This grass differs from Epieampes as described by Bentham and 

 Hooker (Gen. Ill, p. 1148) in its widely diffuse panicle which, with 

 its small spikelets, resembles an Agrostis. The irregular (spiral ?) 

 disposition of the branches, the firm texture of the flowering glume, 

 large palea and terminal awn or mucro, separate it from that genus. 

 The strictly adherent pericarp alone separates it from Sporobolus. 

 From Miihlenhergia it is distinguished by its loosely enclosed 

 caryopsis, this being held chiefly by the palea, to which however, it 

 is not at all adherent. As understood by Fournier, the grass in 

 question certainly belongs to Epicampes, and it is probably his E. 

 Bourgcei. From his imperfect descriptions, however, one is hardly 

 enabled to positively determine the species. Unfortunately I am 

 not able to compare Pringle's specimens with those of Bourgeau and 

 Liebmau, referred to by Fournier as types of his E. Bourg<ei and E. 

 expansa, 

 24. (3445). Deschampsia Pringlei, Scribn. (in Pringle"? coll.. 1SS7. no. 1429.) 



Culms slender, erect, very smooth, 60-70 cm. high. Sterile shoots 

 (innovations) numerous, extravaginal, leaves of these rather short 

 and narrower than those of the flowering culm. Sheaths smooth, 

 shorter than the internodes. Ligule membranous, about 2 mm. long, 

 obtuse, broader than the leaf-blade. Leaves flat, 5-12 cm. long, 1-3 

 mm. (usually about 2) wide, scabrous above and along the margins, 

 somewhat rigid at the involute apex. Panicle 7-12 cm. long, strict, 

 densely flowered, somewhat interrupted below ; branches erect, 

 appressed, the longer ones 2-3 cm., covering the internodes of the 




1891.] XATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 301 



main rhachis. Spikelets 2-flowered with a minute prolongation of 

 the rachilhi behind the second floret, on short (usually very short) 

 scabrous pedicels ; empty glumes longer than the florets, subequal, 

 about 5 mm. long, lanceolate, acute, one-nerved, or the second, -which 

 is a little broader than the first, mdistinctly three-nerved below, 

 scabrous along the keels to near the base, margins broadly scarious ; 

 flowering glumes oblong, rounded on the back, texture rather firm 

 below, faintly five-nerved (nerves visible only by transmitted light ) 

 two-lobed at the apex, lobes scarious, rounded and minutely erose 

 dentate ; callus short, subacute, pilose with short stiff" hairs ; inter- 

 node between the florets very short, awn from near the base of the 

 flowering glumes, 6-7 mm. long, geniculate, twisted below ; palea f 

 as long as the glume, delicate. (PI. XIII, figs. 1, la). 



Damp soil of plains. La Honda, State of Zacatecas. August 19. 



The type (Xo. 1429, 1887) was found growing in wet places, pine 

 plains, at the base of the Sierra iladre in the State of Chihuahua. 

 The plant from La Honda has rather narrower glumes, both empty 

 and flowering, the latter nearly equalling the former in length, and 

 the prolongation of the rachilla above the second floret is more con- 

 spicuous. 



25. (3279). Danthonia Mexicana "p. hot. 



Culms 70-90 cm. high, erect, slender, wiry. Leaves strongly in- 

 volute, erect, rather rigid, pungent, scabrous without, strigose- 

 pubescent within ; ligule 2-3 mm. long, laciniate, auricled. Panicle 

 strict, 15-20 cm. long; branches solitary or in pairs bearing 1-3 

 spikelets, slightly pilose in the axils. Spikelets about 15 mm. long, 

 3-4 flowered ; empty glumes lanceolate, very acute or mucronate- 

 pointed, 7-9 nerved, slightly unequal, the first about 12 mm. long, 

 the second a little broader and longer, scariou»-margined ; flow'ering 

 glumes rounded on the back, pilose with silky hairs on the lower 

 half, bifid at the apex the divisions subulate-pointed, 9-nerved, the 

 three middle nerves approximate and extending into the geniculate 

 awn which is about 14 mm. long, flat and twisted below ; callus sub- 

 acute, densely pilose; palea narrow, about 7 mm. long, ciliate- 

 scabrous on the nerves above. Ovary about 3 mm. long with a 

 pubescent, cushion-like summit. (PI. XIII, figs. 7-76). 



Very unlike any other Xorth American species. 



Dry limestone ledges, Carneros Pass. September 20. 




302 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



26. I 3465 ;. Microchloa setacea R. Br., Prod. Flor. Nov. Hoi., p. 286 : Benth. Flor. 



Austr. VII. |i. 60S; HBK. Nov. Gen. et. Sp. I, p. 84, t. 22: Doell in 

 Mart. Flor. Bra.=. II. ?,, p. 75. t. 21 : S. Wats, in Proc. Am. Acad. XVIII, 

 II. 176. 



Spikelets 2-2*5 mm. long, acute, strictly one-flowered, awnless, 

 sessile and closely imbricate along one side of the rachis forming a 

 slender terminal, more or less falcate spike 3-8 cm. long. Empty 

 glumes nearly equal, persistent, one-nerved. Flowering glumes 

 shorter, hyaline, three-nerved, and somewhat irregularly three- 

 toothed at the broad apex, lateral nerves nearly marginal, ciliate on 

 the back below and on the margins (with longer hairs) to the 

 summit. 



An annual with slender, densely tufted culms, 8-20 cm. high. 



Sandy soil, Valley of Mexico. July 27. 



27. I 3451 1. Spartina densiflora Brongn. in I>upr. It. Bot., p. 14: E. I>e.<v. in C. 



<!ay Fl. Chil. \'I, p. 372. (From description.) 



Allied to S. gracilis Trin., but quite distinct. 



Brackish marshes. Las Tablas. July 8. 



Spartina Gouini Fourn. is apparently the same; the characters 

 given for this species (Mex. PI. Enum., Gram., p. 135) certainly em- 

 brace our plant. 



28. (3174). Bouteloua stolonifera, B. scorpioides Lag. ? S. Wats, in Proc. Am. 



XVIII. p. 176. Same as 1010 SchafiFner. 



Plants strongly stoloniferous. Spikes readily deciduous as a 

 whole. Spikelets distinctly pedicellate. Callus of the 5 floret 

 shortly pilose, and near the middle of the pedicel of the long-awned 

 (10-15 mm.) upper empty glumes there is a minute tuft of short 

 hairs, glumes otherwise smooth. 



Plains, State of Zacatecas, between San Luis Fotosi and Aguas 

 Calientes. August 19. 



Fournier refers Lagasca's plant {B. scorpioides Lag.) to Chondro- 

 sium tenue Beauv. (B. tenuis S. AVats.) but it is quite impossible to 

 identify B. scorpioides by the meager description — " cubno erecto, 

 filiformi, monostachyo ; spica lineari-oblonga, spiraliter revoluta " — 

 given by Lagasca. So far as they go, however, these characters are 

 rather more applicable to B. temds than to 3174 Priugle or 1010 

 Schaffher. 



29. (3252). LeptocMoa Mexicana sp. nov. 



Culms simple, terete, solid, erect, 1 m. or more high from a 

 strong creeping root-stock. Sheaths longer than the internodes. 

 Ligule a ring of stiff" hairs, 2-3 mm. long. Leaf-blade flat, 30-40 




1891.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 803 



cm. long, lanceolate, 1-2 cm. broafi, tapering gradually to the very 

 acute tip, glabrous ; mid-rib Avhite and prominent below, evanescent 

 above. Panicle pyramidal, 30-40 cm. long with a strong, sulcate- 

 angular and smooth rachis ; branches simple, rather slender, ascend- 

 ing, solitary or the lower subverticillate, tri(juetrous, scabrous on the 

 angles, the lower 20-27 cm. long, becoming shorter above. Spike- 

 lets 10-14 mm. long. 3-4-flo\vered, erect and racemose along the outer 

 side of the branches, remote below, approximate above ; pedicels 

 mostly shorter than the spikelets ; empty glumes membranaceo-char- 

 taceous, broadly lanceolate, acute, one-nerved, unequal, the first 4-5 

 the second 6-7 mm. long, scabrous on the nerve ; flowering glume 

 3-nerved, nerves densely silky-villousfor one-half or two-thirds their 

 length from the base, mid-nerve extending into a short awn beyond 

 the acute and entire apex, the nearly marginal lateral nerves evanes- 

 cent above. Palea two-toothed, pilose on the nerves below, finely 

 scabrous above. Callus densely pilose. Joints oftherachilla about 

 2 mm. long, pubescent above. Stamens three. Stigmas plumose, 

 projecting from the sides of the florets. Ovary smooth. 



A tall reed-like, perennial grass with solid culms which are some- 

 what frutescent below, broad flat leaves and ample panicle. 



About dry ledges, Tamasopo Caiion. September 28. 



This gra.ss might be classed as Diplachne if compared with the 

 American species referred to that genus by Bentham, rather than 

 with the characters Avhich he has assigned to it. In defining the 

 genus Diplachne both Bentham and Hackel describe the flowering^ 

 glume as one-nerved. Molinia serotina (Festuca serotina L.), referred 

 to Diplachne by Bentham (Gen. PI. Ill, p. 1176), has 5-nerved 

 flowering glumes ; all the American species which the same author 

 refers to this genus have the flowering glumes distinctly three-nerved. 

 These American species clearly possessthe peculiar inflorescence which 

 alone serves to distinguish the Chloridese from the Festuceog. To 

 me the genus Diplachne is not only poorly established, but really 

 stands in the way of a simple and natural classification, and all 

 attempts to maintain it are most likely to result in confusion. As 

 •already stated, the North American species which have recently been 

 referred to or placed in Diplachne belong, by their inflorescence, to 

 the Chloridete and ought to be referred to Leptochloa. Beauvois' 

 genus, Diplachne (Agrost., p. 80, t. XVI, f. 9) was founded upon 

 Leptochloa fascicularis Gray. Beauvois says nothing of the 

 nervation of the flowering glumes ; these are, hoAvever, distinctly 




304 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



three-uerved ; nor does be mention the disposition of the spikelets, 

 but they are manifestly arranged along one side of the branches of 

 the simple panicle. Adding these characters to his description 

 there is nothing left to distinguish Diplachne from Babdochloa 

 Beauv. (Agrost, p. 84, t. XVII, f. 3) which Bentbam has very 

 properly referred ((ien. PI. Ill, p. 1173) to Leptochloa. Leptochloa 

 spicata {Diplachne spicata Dq?11) connects Leptochloa on the one side 

 with Microchlon, from which it differs by its less crowded and several 

 flowered spikelets, and on the other side with Triodia, from which it 

 is separated by its one-sided inflorescence and more distinctly keeled 

 flowering glumes ; from the recognized species of Leptochloa it 

 differs only in its more simple inflorescence. Leptochloa rigida 

 jNIunro {Diplachne rigida Vasey) is an Eragrostis {E. rigida Scribn.) 



30. (3448). Leptochloa dubia Xees, Agrost. Bras., p. 433 ; Chapm. So. Flor., \>. 



.).3y : Diplachne dubia Benth. ex. 8. Wats. Proc. Am. Acad. XVIII, p. 

 181 ; Vasey Grasses U. S,, p. 35. 



Cardenas, State of San Luis Potosi. October 7. 



31. (3267). Leptochloa spicata. — Diplachne spicata Doell on Mart. FI. Bras. II. 



3, t. 28: Benth. Notes on Gram. Trans. Linn. Socy. XIX, p. 111 ; D. 

 Reverchoni Vasey, Bull. Torr. Bot. Club, XIII, p. 118; Triodia 

 Schaffneri S. Wats., Proc. Am. Acad, XVIII. p. 181 : Triplasis setacea 

 (Jriseb., ex Benth. 1. c, et Gen. PI. Ill, p, 1177. 



Hills near San Luis Potosi. September 7. 



32. 32841. Eragrostis pectinacea Steud., Syn. Gram., p. 272; Gray Man. Bot. 5 



(3il., ]). t;.'!2 ; Fourn. Mex. PI. Enum., Gram., p. 114. 



Cardenas, State of San Luis Potosi. October 7. 



33. (3472). Eragrostis ciliaris Link, Hort. Berol. I. )>. 192: Chapm. Flor. So. U. 



S., p. 536. 



Las Palmas, State of San Luis Potosi. June 5. 



34. (3334). Eragrostis Vahlii Nees, Agrost. Bras., 499: Doell in Mart. Flor. Bras. 



II, 3, p. 154: a7nceiia Presl. Rel. Haenk. I, p. 275, ex Kunth Enum. I, 

 p. 342 (sub. Poa) : Megastachya amcena Fourn. Mex. PI. Enum., Gram., 

 p. 118. j£'ra^roj//j /*/-««^/W Scribn. as distributed. 



Annual. Culms ctespitose, erect or ascending, 5-30 cm. high, 

 simple or with flower-bearing branches below. Leaves flat, 

 attenuate-acuminate, smooth on the upper surface, usually pilose ; 

 sheaths slightly compressed, striate, pilose at the throat. Panicle 

 short (3-5 cm.) and subspicate, or elongated (10-15 cm.) with the 

 solitary lower branches remote and more or less spreading, spikelet 

 bearing to the base, axils pilose. Spikelets very short-pedicellate, 

 crowded or fasciculate, erect or somewhat spreading. 5-25 mm. long, 

 linear or linear-oblong, much compres.sed, many (10-50) flowered. 




1891.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 305 



Empty glumes lanceolate-acuminate or acute, subequal, a little 

 shorter than or nearly equalling the adjacent floral glumes, one- 

 nerved, scabrous on the keel. Fhjwering glume 2 — 2"5 mm. long, 

 ovate-lanceolate, strongly acuminate-pointed, distinctly three-nerved, 

 scabrous on the keel above. Palea i shorter than its glume, finely 

 ciliate along the keels. (PI. XIII, figs. 8, 8a.) 



Sandy plains, near (luadalajara, State of Jalisco. October and 

 November. 



36. (3243). Briza subaristata Lam. I, 187: Doell in Mart. Flor. Bras. II. 3, j). 

 134. Chascolytrum sttbaristratum Desv. in .lourn. de Bot. Ill, p. 71 ; 

 Kunth. Revis. Gram. I, p. 347. t. S7: Briza rotundata Steud. Gram., 

 p. 284; S. Wats, in Proc. Am. Acad. XVIII. j). 182: Hemsl. in Biol. 

 Cent. Amer. Ill, p. 579. 



Perennial. Culms rather slender, 40-60 cm. high, erect or slightly 

 geniculate at the lowermost joints. Panicle narrow, 6-10 cm. long, 

 Isranches and spikelets erect. Spikelets thick, ovate or subrotund, 

 3-5 mm. long, 6-10 flowered. Empty glumes cymbi«form, nearly 

 equal, shorter than the first florets, scabrous above, the first three- 

 nerved, the second seven-nerved, much broader and subcordate at 

 base. Flowering glumes nearly as broad as long (3-3"5 mm.) 

 deeply cordate at the base; very abruptly short-acuminate (rostrato- 

 apiculatcd) the apex minutely two-toothed with a short awn or mucro 

 between the teeth, strongly convex on the back below, this portion 

 being coriaceous, shining and very often minutely pubescent, the 

 troad, flat margins whitish or purplish (B. violesceyis Steud.?). 

 Palea roundish-oblong, exactly covering the inflated portion of the 

 flowering glume. (See PI. XIH, figs. 10-lOd.) 



Calcareous bluffs, Flor de Maria and Rio Hondo. August and 

 September. 



36. 1 3443). Brachypodiam pinnatum Beauv. var. caespitosua. 



Culms ctespitose, slender, somewhat geniculate and more or less 

 branched below, 50-80 cm. high ; nodes closely and downwardly 

 pubescent; sheaths slightly scabrous, the overlapping edge conspicu- 

 ously ciliate, the lower sheaths occasionally .sparingly pilose ; ligule 

 1-1*5 mm. long, fimbriate, broader than the leaf-blade; lamina flat, 

 2-4 mm. wide, very acute, scabrous, pilose with scattered hairs on 

 the upper surface ; raceme 6-8 cm. long, bearing 4-6 spikelets on 

 short (2 mm.) and finely pubescent pedicels ; spikelets erect or 

 spreading, 2-2'5 cm. long, 6-9-flowered ; first glume 6 mm. long, 

 5-nerved, the second a little broader and longer (7-7"5 mm.), 




306 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891, 



7-9-nerved, both very finely serrate on thescarious marji;;iii.« near the 

 rather blunt or subacute tips ; first flowering glume about 9 mm. 

 long, 7-nerved, rounded on the back and terminating in a short 

 (3-6 mm.) awn ; palea strongly 2-nerved, 2-keeled, ciliate on the 

 keels above. Ovary crowned with a thickened, villous appendage 

 which extends down the sides to the base. Caryopsis broadly sul- 

 cate, adherent to the palea which it nearly equals in length, crowned 

 w'ith the remains of the villous appendage of the ovary. Embryo 

 small. Lodicules conspicuous, obliquely pointed with ciliate margins. 

 (See Plate XIII, figs. 5-5e.) 



Wet meadows about Lake Patzcuaro. November 9. 



This gra.ss comes too near the European B. pinnainrn (as repre- 

 sented in my herbarium) to be separated from it specifically; it is, 

 however, rather more distinctly Ciespitose in habit, and in my speci- 

 mens there is no evidence of a creeping rootstalk, the presence of 

 which is given a.s one of the characters of the species. 



//. Species collectedi7ilS90,bythe Expedition from the Academy of 

 Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, under Prof. A. Heilprin. 



1. (172i. Andropogon saccharoides Sw. Prod. Flor. Ind. Occ, p. 26; Flor. Ind. 



Occ. I. ]i. 2(lj. 



Near the City of Mexico, Mexico. April 11, 1890. 



2. (67). .Egopogon geminiflorus HBK., Nov. (ien. et Sp. PI. I, p. 13.3, t. 43: 



Fourii. ,Me.\, PI. Eiiiiin., (iraui., p. 71. 



Dry rocky places. Town of Orizaba, Mexico. March 28, 1890. 



3. (274). Chloris ciliata Sw., Flor. Ind. Occ. I, p. 197 : l»oelI in Mart. Flor. Bras. 



II. ;;. p. 66: Kunth Enum., PI. I, p. 263: Trin. Icon, (iram., t. 307. 



Calcehtoh, Yucatan. March 11, 1890. 



4. (184). Bouteloua Americana Seribn. 



Aristida Americana Sw., Obs. 41, t., f. 2 (1791) ei Kunth. 



Dimhra Americana Beauv., Agrost.. p. 98, t. XVI, f. 3 (1812.) 



Dinebra repens HBK. ! Nov. Gen. I, 172, t. 52 (1815.) 



Atheropogon repens R. AS., Syst. Veg. II, p. 416 (1817.) 



Bouteloua bromoides Lag., Blench., p. 5 (1815) ex S. Wats. Proc. Am. 



Acad. XVIII. pp. 177 et 179. 

 B. litigiosa Lag. (according to S])eciinen in my herbarium from Porto Rico, 



so named bv HackeL) 

 B. Humboldhana Griseb. PI. Wr., p. 132. excl. Syn. 



Note. Aristida Americana L., cited by Kunth (Enum. PI., p. 

 281) as a synonym of his Eatriana juncifoUa, is a true Aristida 

 which Trinius named A. dispjersa, according to Munro in his enumera- 

 tion of the grasses in the Linnsean herbarium. Dr. Watson (1. c.) 

 united under Bouteloua bromoides LtSig., Heterostegajuneifolia Desv. 




1891.] NATURAL SCIENCP:S of PHILADELPHIA. 307 



in Bull. Soc. Phil. Dec. (1810), and Boutelona Humholdiiana Griseb. 

 Tekanto, Yucatan, February 28, 1890. 



5. (210). Bouteloua Triaena Scribn. 



Triatia racemosa HBK., Nov. Gen. et fep. I, p. 179, t. 61. Kunth. Enum. 

 PI. I, ji. 2S4. Atheropogon Triana Spreng., Syst. I, p. 29.'?, ex Kunth ; 

 Bouteloua Triathera Benth. Journ. Linn. Soe. XIX, p. 104 (in jiart.) 



Culms slender, branched at the base. Leaves flat, sparingly 

 pilose, at least the lower ones, as are also the sheaths ; ligule a ring 



of dense short hairs. Spikes dis- 

 tichously-racemose along the upper 

 part of the culm from which they 

 readily fall at maturity, partial 

 rachis continued beyond the solitary 

 spikelet into a bristle-like prolonga- 

 tion lying close to the lower glume 

 which it nearly equals in length. 

 Empty glumes narrowly oblong, 

 one-nerved, somewhat inequilateral 

 and slightly retuse at the blunt 

 point, the first about 2 ram. long, 

 the second about 3'5 mm. long. 

 Flowering glume 3-nerved, 5-6 mm. 

 long, slender-acuminate-pointed, 

 scabrous on the keel above, and sometimes w'ith a few short scattered 

 hairs on the back (seen under the lens). Palea nearly as long as its 

 glume, entire or bimucronate at the narrow tip. Second floret reduced 

 to three scabrous, nearly equal awns (about 8 mm. long) supported on 

 a smooth joint of the rachilla (stipe) which is about one-half as long 

 as the floral glume. 



It is doubtless the prolongation of the partial rachis which is 

 often so closely appressed to the back of the lowest glume that Kunth 

 mistook it for a basal awn (" glumfe 2 ; inferior basi aristata," Enum. 

 PI. I, p. 284, et HBK. Nov. Gen. et Spec. I, p. 179, t. 61, f 1). 



Our plant differs too much from the description of Triathera 

 Americana Desv. (included in Bouteloua Triathera by Bentham) to 

 be classed specifically with it. In that the culms are very much 

 branched with rigid involute-sectaceous leaves ; the empty glumes 

 are ovate-lanceolate, subulate acuminate and the apex of the flower- 

 ing glume is trifid with subulate divisions. 



In our specimens, the culms are less branched, the spikelets 

 nearer the main axis (more nearly sessile as understood by Kunth) 



Bouteloua Tritena, i and 2, entire spike- 

 lets ; 3, spikelet with empty glumes 

 removed ; a, continuation of the partial 

 rachis supporting the spikelet; b, first 

 empty glume ; d, second empty glume ; e, 

 flowering glume; f, palea ; c, the 3-awned 

 rudiment. (Original). 




308 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



than in Tricena racemosa as figured by Kunth, and the glumes are 

 more unequal. 



Tekanto, Yucatan. February 22, 1890. 



6. (170). Eragrostis lugens Nees, Agrost. Bras. .305 ; Doell in part, f lor. Bras. 



ir. .3, ]). 140. 



Near Eragrostis capillaris Steud. (Poa capillaris Linn.) 



San Angelo, near the City of Mexico, Mexico. April 11, 1890. 



7. (187). Eragrostis ciliaris Link, Hort. Berol. I, ji. 192; Griseb. Flor. Brit. W. 



Ind., p. 5.S2 ; Chapm. Flor. So. U. S., p. 563. Poa ciliaris Linn, in Eling., 

 PI. Jam. Pug., p. 1,3; Sp. PI. ed. 2, p. 102. 



Tekanto, Yucatan. February 27, 1890. 



8. (169). Bromus unioloides HBK. Not. Gen. et .Sp. I, p. 151; Doell in Mart. 



Flor. Br*s. II, 3, p. 110. 



Kear the City of Mexico, Mexico, April 11, 1890. 



9. (168). Hordeum jubatum Linn., Sp. PI. ed. I, j), S5 : A, (iray, Man. Bot. North. 



U. S. ed.fi, (1.S90) p, 672. 



Near the City of Mexico, Mexico. April 11, 1890. 

 Explanation of Plate XIII, 



Fig, 1. A spikelet of Deschampsia Pringlei. 



Fig. la. The same with the empty glumes removed. 



Fig. 2, A group of spikelets of Hilar'm cenchroides var. ciliata, 



anterior view. 

 Fig. 2a. Posterior view of the same. 

 Fig. 2b, A group of spikelets of Hilaria cenchroides from no. 493, 



Pringle, 1885 coll. 

 Fig. 3, 3a; 3b, Spikelets of Panicum hians Ell., var. pxirpiirascens, 



three views. 

 Fig. 3c, Palea of the neutral floret of same. 

 Fig. 3d. Dorsal view of the ?? floret of same. 

 Fig, 4, A spikelet of Epicampes Bourgm (?). 

 Fig. 4a, Empty glumes of the same. 



Fig, 4b, A dorsal view of the flowering glume of the same. 

 Fig. 4c. Anterior view of floret of same, showing the palea. 

 Fig, 4d. Caryopsis of same. 



Fig, 5. Empty glume of Brachypodium pinnatum var. ccespitosum. 

 Fig. 5a. Dorsal view of the flowering glume of the same. 

 Fig, 5b. Anterior view of floret of same showing the palea and joint 



of rachilla. 

 Fig, 5c, Ovary and lodicules of same. 

 Fig. 5d. Palea of same. 




1891.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 309 



Fig. 5e. Caiyopsis of same. 



Fig. 6. Spikelet of Leptochloa Mexicana. 



Fig. 6a. Dorsal view of the flowering glume of same. 



Fig. 7. Spikelet of Danthonia Mexicana. 



Fig. 7a. A single floret from the same showing a joint of the 



rachilla to the right. 

 Fig. 7b. Palea of the same. 

 Fig. 7c. Apex of the flowering glume of same with a portion of the 



awn. 

 Fig. 7d. Pistil and lodicules of same. 

 Fig. 8. Qpike]et of Era gro-stis Vahlii. 

 Fig. 8a. A portion of same showing persistent paleas. 

 Fig. 9. A spikelet oi Arundinella Deppeana. 

 Fig. 9a. The awned floret of same. 

 Fig. 9b. A spikelet of Arumiinella Brasilie7isis (?) from no. 1746, 



Pringle, 1888. 

 Fig. 9. Awned floret from the same, figure to the left of 96. 

 Fig. 10. A spikelet of Briza subaristata. 

 Fig. 10a. The empty glumes of same. 

 Fig. 1(>1). Dorsal view of the flowering glume of same. 

 Fig. 10c. Anterior view of the flowering glume of same with palea. 

 Fig. lOd. Anterior view of palea of same. 



Note. All figures original and drawn by the author from speci- 

 mens collected by Pringle. 




310 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1891. 



LAND AND FEESH-WATER MOLLUSKS COLLECTED IN YUCATAN AND 



MEXICO. 



BY HENRY A. PIL.SBRY. 



The moUusk-s commented uputi in the following pages, were col- 

 lected by an expedition from the Academy of Natural Sciences of 

 Philadelphia to Yucatan and Mexico during the monthsof February, 

 March, April, May and June, 1890. The party consisted of Pro- 

 fessor Angelo Heili)rin (in charge), Messrs. AVitmer Stone, J. E. 

 Ives, F. C. Baker and Roberts Le Boutillier. 



After touching at Havana, Cuba," the party landed at Progreso, 

 Yucatan ; they penetrated southward in Yucatan as far as Tunkas 

 and Labna. 



The accompanying sketch map of northern Yucatan shows the 

 position of the various localities at which collections were made.* 



In Mexico proper, collections were made around Vera Cruz, at 

 the town of Orizaba, at the city of Mexico and in its environs, at 

 Lake Patzcuaro, situated near the western edge of the plateau, in 

 the State of Michoacan, and at Yau tepee, in the State of Morelos, 

 lying southward from the city of Mexico, and otf the Mexican 

 plateau. 



I have affixed the museum numbers of the specimens collected, 

 after each locality. 



1 The marine shells collected on the coast of Yucatan and at Vera Cruz, 

 have been catalogued by Mr. F. C. Baker. See Proc. Acad. Phila. 1891, pp. 

 45-55. 



* See appendix A. 



3 See Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1891, p. 136, for descriptive notes on the 

 topography and geology of northern Yucatan. 




1891.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 311 



Family TESTAOELLID^. 

 Genus GLANDINA Schum. 

 Glandina cylindracea Phillijjs. 



From an examination of an authentic specimen of G. njlindracea 

 I conclude that G. carnea Pfeiffer, is completely synonymous. The 

 species is abundant throughout northern Yucatan. 



Tekanto (61510); Tabi (61503); Ticul (61504); Tunkas (61- 

 506) ; Sitilpech (61509) ; Izamal (61501) ; Labna (61507) ; Merida 

 (61508) ; and between Sitilpech and Tunkas (61511). 



Glandina spp. 



A large species of this genus wa^ collected at Vera Cruz, but the 

 specimens (61638) are in poor condition. 



Another species, also represented by bleached examples only, was 

 found at Yautepec (61634). 



Still another large species was found at Shkolak, Yucatan (61637) 

 and at Izamal (61636), and another at Purga, Province of Vera 

 Cruz (61635). 



Glandina Varicella) speciosa Pfr. 



Orizaba (61505). 

 Glandina (Selasiella) perpusilla Pfr. 



Hills around Orizaba (61502). 



(Jenus STREPTOSTYLA Shuttl. 

 Streptostyla Edwardsiana Crosse & Fisuher. 



Orizaba (61513). 

 Streptostyla physodes ShuttL 



Orizaba (61512). 

 streptostyla vexans Strebel. 



Orizaba (61515). 



A small, slender form, apparently belonging to this species. 



Several small species have not yet been positively determined. 



Subgenus ORYZOSOMA Pilsbry. 



The Nautilus, iv, (ii). May, 1891. 



Shell perforated; the columella thickened, simply concave, almost 

 imperceptibly sinuous above. 

 Streptostyla (Oryzosoma) Tabiensis Pilsbry, n. sp. (PI. XV, figs. 6, 7.) 



Shell small, ovate-turrited, rather thin, the base deeply indented 

 and minutely perforated. Spire conic, obtuse; whorls 6, slightly 




312 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [189K 



convex ; apical I5 whorls wide, forming a globose nucleus, the fol- 

 lowing 2 whorl excessively narrow. Suture simple, narrowly 

 margined. 



Aperture small, narrow above, one-half the length of the entire 

 shell; outer lip thin, produced forward in the middle; columella 

 thick, a little reflexed, concave on the apertural side ; receding a 

 trifle above. Surface polished, scarcely broken by slight growth- 

 lines. Color translucent-whitish, (denuded of epidermis). 



Alt. 9-8, diam. 4-8 mm. Alt. of aperture 4*8, greatest breadth of 

 aperture 2"5 mm. 



Cave in the mountains, near the hacienda of Tabi, Yucatan (61, 

 630). Dead and denuded of epidermis. 



This seems to be perfectly distinct from all described species in 

 its funnel-shaped, perforate base, and the lack of a convex columel- 

 lar fold. 



(ienus PSETJDOSUBULINA Strel.el A PfeflFer. 

 Pseudosubulina Berendti Pfr. 



Hills around Orizaba (61494). 

 Pseudosubulina sp. 



A very minute form, probably undescribed. Orizaba (61493). 

 Pseudosubulina (Volutaxis) Miradorensis Strebel(?) 



Orizaba (61545). 



Family LIMACIDJE s. lat. 

 Genu? ZONITES Montf. 

 Zonites (Zonyalinai bilineatus Pfr. 



Hills, 300-500 ft. above Orizaba (61522); a bandless form 

 (61521) was collected at the same locality. 

 Zonites (Hyaliniai indentatus Say. 



Yautepec (61520). This easily recognized species seems to 

 inhabit the greater part of North America; it is the niost abundant 

 of the smaller Zonites in Texas. 

 Zonites (Hyalinia) subhyalinus Pfr. 



Hills around Orizaba, about 500 ft. above the town. (61523.) 



Genus STENOPUS Guild. 



^Stenopus-\- Guppya Morch-\- Habroconns C. & F. 

 Stenopus elegans Strebel. 



Hills around Orizaba (61550) ; Yautepec (61549). • 




1891.] KATURAL SCIENCES OF PIIlLADELPniA. 313 



Family HELICID^. 

 Genus HELIX L. 



I would restrict this genus to those snails having the genital 

 apparatus complicated by the presence of a flagellum upon the penis- 

 sac, in the male system ; and in the female system a long duct to the 

 receptaculum seminis which frequently l)ranches out into a long 

 blind sac, a dart-sac or sacks, and a pair of accessory mucus or 

 digitate glands. 



In some species one or more of these organs may be undeveloped ; 

 but the majority of them are always present. 



Helix aspersa MUiler. 



This form, introduced from Europe, is very abundant in the 

 environs of the city of Mexico (61585), especially in the jjark at 

 Chapultepec. 

 Helix? (Praticola) griseola Pfr. 



Vera Cruz (61534). 



Genus POLYGYEA (Say) Pilsbrr. 



Equals, in part, Anchistoma Ads., Tryon, Fischer and others. 

 Includes as sections, Pohjgyra, Mesodon, Triodopsis, etc. 



I have adopted Pohjgyra as the name for that group of Americar. 

 Helices characterized by a horn-colored striate shell, with reflected 

 white peristome, usually toothed within ; ribbed jaw ; genitalia 

 simple, without dart-sac or appendages other than the essential 

 organs, penis without flagellum, duct of the spermatheca short. 



See, on this genus, Proc. Acad. Xat. Sci. Phila. 1889, p. 193. 

 Polygyra sp. 



Yautepec (61554). Fragments only. 



<ienus PATULA Held. 



This world-wide distributed genus is characterized bv a discoidal or 

 conical striated shell, usually broadly umbilicated, having a simple 

 sharp lip, not thickened within or reflexed, and by the simple 

 genitalia. Many of the species are viviparous. A host of sectional 

 names have been proposed, mostly for groups, of but little systematic 

 value. I regard Acanthinula as a section oi Patiilu. 



Tropical America is inhabited by a group of thin-shelled light- 

 colored forms of Patida known as Microphysa. This name being 

 preoccupied, we ma}'^ substitute Thymnophora Strebel, proposed for 

 Mexican species allied most intimatelv to P. incrustata Poev, etc 

 21. 




314 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



Of this name, Acanthinida Strebel (not Beck) and Ftychopatula 

 Pilsbry, as well as Microphysa Martens (preoc.) must be considered 

 synonyms. 



Microconus of Strebel is very closely allied, but it may perhaps be 

 considered closer to the section Discus o£ Patula. The genus Patula 

 has been much more minutely sub-divided than the existing modi- 

 fications warrant. 



Patula coactiliata For. 



Tunkas (61489) ; Labna (61488). 

 Patula Hermanni Pfr. 



Hills 500 ft. above Orizaba (61536). 



This species has a peculiar aperture. The dentition should be 

 examined. It may prove to belong elsewhere than in Patula. 

 Patula paleosa .'^trebol. 



Hills 500 ft. above Orizaba (61556). 



Patula granum Strebel. 



A specimen apparently of this species but of a clear whitish color 

 was collected at Progreso, Yucatan (Qlbbb). 

 Patula conspurcatella Morelet. 



Merida (61490), Tunkas (61491) aud Tekanto (61487), Yucatan ; 

 Vera Cruz, ^Mexico (61492). 



I am unable to sepai'ate the Vera Cruz specimens from those from 

 Yucatan. 



Patula impura Pfr. 



Vera Cruz (61557) Yautepec (61558) Mexico. 



This differs from P. conspurcatella in lacking the delicate, very 

 oblique cuticular folds usually visible on that species, if I am right 

 in my indentification of it. I believe the Thysanophora impura of 

 Strebel to=P. conspurcatella. These species are very closely allied 

 to the Patula (" Microphysa ") incrustata Poey, a species ranging 

 along the Gulf coast from Texas to Florida, originally described 

 from Cuba. 

 Patula intonsa Pilsbry, n. sp. (PI. XV. fig;;, l, 2. ?>.) 



Shell very small, narrowly umbilicated, thin, chestnut-brown, 

 semi-globose. A\'horls 4, well rounded, separated by very deeply 

 impressed sutures. Apex obtuse ; last whorl rounded at the j^eriph- 

 ery. Surface smooth, very lightly striatulate, having long, whitish, 

 sparsely scattered, delicate hairs, usually rubbed off except at the 

 sutures. Aperture slightly oblique, oval, parietal wall a little flat- 




1891.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 315 



teiied. Lip sharp, acute, very sliglitly expanded at the columelhir 

 margin. Alt. 2, diam. I'S mill. 



The specimens were collected at Orizaba, Mexico (61986). 



The sparsely scattered, partly deciduous hairs are peculiar and 

 characteristic. 



Family PUPIDJE. 

 Genus PUPA Drap. 



(Section Bifidaria Sterki.) 

 Pupa contracta Say. 



Typical specimens were collected at Orizaba (61433), and at 

 Yautepec (61432). 

 Pupa servilis (Juuld. 



Merida, Yucatan (61435); Yautepec, Mex. (61434). 



Specimens have been examined by Dr. V. Sterki, who considers 

 them true servilis. The Yautepec specimens are a trifle slenderer 

 and paler than usual. 



(ienus ETJCALODIUM Crosse &, Fi.scher. 

 Eucalodium i Coelocentrum) filicosta Slmtthv. 

 Hills around Orizaba (61519). 



Family BULIMULID^. 

 (Ienus BULIMULUS (Leach) Auct. 

 Bulimulus tropicalis Morelet. 



Piuins of Labna, Yucatan (61544). 

 Bulimulus Dysoni Pfr. 



Tabi, Yucatan (61514). 

 Bulimulus sp. 



A large number of species of this genus were collected, which the 

 writer has not yet determined. 



Family CYLINDRELLIDJE. 

 (ienus CYLINDEELLA Pfr. 

 It is evident that a number of the Cylindrellas of Central America 

 will prove to be merely local races; the distinctions do not seem to 

 be at all well defined. 



Cylindrella speluncae Pfr. (Pi. XV, figs. 1.3. 1.3a.) 

 {C. costitlata Morel., not C. B. Ad.i 



The specimens collected seem to connect this species with C 

 morini Morel. The localities are: Cave at Tabi (61517); Ticul 

 (61987) ; between Sitilpech and Tunkas (61518). 




316 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



C. speluncae Pfr., var. dubia Pilsbry, n. var. (PI. XV, figs. 14, 14a.) 



A more slender form, always truncated and decidedly smaller, 

 measuring alt. 10, greatest diam. H to 2 mm., having 12 or 13 

 Avhorls remaining, was collected at Labna, Yucatan. There are 

 17 or 18 riblets on the penultimate whorl, about the same number 

 that the specimens of speluncce before me possess. 



Cylindrella Bourguignatiana Aneey. (PI. XV. figs. 1.'), 13a.) 

 Annales de Malncologie II, p. 243, 1884-86. 



This Species has not heretofore been figured. The specimens 

 before me (six in number) ai'e part of the original lot collected by 

 Mr. Charles Torrey Simpson on the i.sland of Utilla, Honduras. 



The species is allied to C. speluncce, moriiii and subttlis, but is 

 always truncated, having nine or ten whorls remaining; it is com- 

 pact in form. There are 17 riblets on the ^penultimate whorl; the 

 base is pinched into an acute carina. 



Two specimens measure : — 



Alt. lOi, greatest diam. 2^ mm., whorls 10. 



Alt. 10, greatest diam. 2n mm., whorls 9. 



The base is not so much narrowed as it is in C. speluncce, etc., and 

 the shell is wider than C. speluncce var. dubia. 



Genus MACROCERAMUS (iuilding. 

 Macroceramus concisus Morelet. 



A very abundant species in Yucatan. Specimens were collected 

 at Izamal (61785), Merida (61553), Tekanto (61552), Tunkas 

 (61551), between Tunkas and Sitilpech (61786), Ticul (61575), 

 Uxmal (61784), Santa Ana, near Calcehtok (61576). 



This species .seems to be slenderer than M. Gossei, but it is ex- 

 cessively variable in length. Macroceramus Gossei var. arctispirus 

 Ancey, (Annales de ^lalac. II, p. 242) described from the island of 

 Utilla, is a small form of this species, exactly corresponding with the 

 smaller specimens which occur with typical concisus at Merida, 

 Tekanto, Tunkas, and other localities. 



Specimens collected by Simpson are before me, being a part of the 

 original lot. 



Macroceramus pontificus <ild. 



A single immature specimen collected at Orizaba (61576) may be 

 referred to this species, although with some doubt. 




1891.] NATURAL SCIKXCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 317 



Family LIGUID^. 

 (ienu.-' Liguus .Muntf. 1810, 

 (Subgenus Orthalicus Beck, 1S37.) 

 This genus i;» in great confusion owing to the great variability 

 of the shells and the presence of intermediate forms connecting a 

 number of the described species. 

 Orthalicus princeps ISrod. 



Vera Cruz, (61538). Specimens a little slenderer, but which 

 seem to be not specifically distinct were collected in Yucatan at 

 Shkolak (61539), Ticul (61541), between Sitilpech and Tunkas 

 (61537) and at Silam (61542j. 

 Orthalicus Ferussaci Martens. 



Shkolak (61532) and Tekanto (61540), Yucatan. 

 Specimens which seem to belong to this species are in the collec- 

 tion of the Academy from Mazatlan. 

 Orthalicus melanocheilus Val. ilSSa). 



One of the most distinct species of the genus, described originally 

 from " New Spain. " The Florida specimens differ from the Mexi- 

 can and Central American in a number of characters and seem to 

 me perfectly distinct as a geographic variety. 

 0. melanocheilus var. Floridensis Pilsbry, n. var. 



Shell white or slightly stained with brown, having no longitudi- 

 nal zigzag flames. The body-whorl has 

 three narrow brown bands, the upper one 

 often broken into spots. There is a black 

 varix on the penultimate whorl, and 

 one or two on the body-whorl. The 

 varices are generally not visible icithiu 

 the aperture, but the three spiral bands 

 are conspicuous there. Lip bordered with 

 blackish-brown ; columella white-edged, 

 but parietal callus deep-brown. 



The types of this variety are from near 

 Cape Sable, Florida. 



The synonymy of my variety includes: 

 Bulimxs zebra W. G. Binney, Terr. 

 Moll. V. S. Vol. IV, PI. Ixxviii, fig. 12. 

 0. zebra W. G. B. & T. Bid., Land and 



Orthalicus melanocheilus var. Flori- __, , i n r> -v-r » it 



densis. Fresh-water shells or iS. A. vol. 1, p. 216, 



figs, 370, 371, 




318 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



0. tmdatus W. G. B., Manual of N. A. Land shells, p. 440, %. 

 483. 



Family STENOGYRIDJE Fischer. 

 Genus RUMINA Risso, 182fi. 

 Rumina iSubulinai trochlea Pfr. 



Abundant at Izanial, Yucatan (61496). It is certainly only a 

 variety of S. octona. 

 Rumina Opeas) Caracasensis Rve. 



Hills around Orizaba ; and at Vera Cruz. 



Family SUCCINEIDJE. 

 Genus SUCCINEA Druj,. 

 Succinea luteola (Jould. 



Progreso, Yucatan (61495). 

 Succinea >]>. 



A slender species, quite fragile and light brown in color, was col- 

 lected at Santa Ana, near Calcehtok, Yucatan. (61546.) 



Succinea ?p. 



San Juan, near Vera Cruz (61548). A single poor specimen. 

 Succinea campestris Say. 



Specimens which I am unable to separate from this species were 

 collected at Lake Texcoco, near the City of Mexico. (61541.) 



Family AURICULIDiE. 

 (ienus CARYCHIUM Mull. 



Carycliium exiguum var. Mexicanum Pilsbiy. n. var. (pi. XIV, figs. 7,8, 9). 

 The Nautilus, iv (ii), May, 1S91. 



Shell minute, cylindrical, tapering above to an obtuse apex ; 

 waxen whitish, somewhat translucent ; whorls 42, convex, separated 

 by rather deep sutures. Aperture one-third the length of the shell, 

 rather oblique ; outer lip expanded, thin above, suddenly becoming 

 very much thickened on its outer portion by a heavy deposit of 

 callus upon its face and inner edge ; coluraellar margin having an 

 obtuse projection (scarcely a tooth) below, and an acute entering 

 f(jld above. Surface having very delicate oblique stride of growth. 



Alt. 1*8, diara. '8 mm. 



Hills around Orizaba, at an altitude of about 500 feet above the 

 town. 




1891.] NATURAL SCIENX'ES OF PHILADELrHIA. 319 



In The Nautilus for 1891, vol. IV, p. 109, I gave a brief uotice of 

 the forms of Carychium found within the United States. In my 

 study of the ^lexican specimens I was obliged to go over the whole 

 subject anew, and to examine very extensive suites of American spec- 

 imens. In the present condition of our knowledge, so far as the 

 collections examined permit me to see, three species may be distin- 

 guished and two varieties ; viz. C. exiguum, C. exiguum var. Mex- 

 icanum, C. exile, C. exile var. Jamaicensis, and C. occidentalis. 



Only the collection of specimens from points geographically inter- 

 mediate between the extremes of the range of this genus, and the 

 examination of such material by a competent person, can finally 

 decide the question of the number of naturally defined species, and 

 which, if any of them, must be considered geographic races or sub- 

 species. 



Carychium exiguum .^ay. (PI. XIV, figs. 1, 2, .3; pi. XV, fig. Ki.) 



Shell cylindrical, the last two whorls of about equal diameter. 

 AVhorls 45. Aperture decidedly over one-third the total altitude. 

 Outer lip sinuous, moderately thickened, very strongly arcuate at 

 its upper outer portion. 



This is the common East American form, ranging from ]\Iaine 

 southward and westward, the limits of its range not exactly deter- 

 mined as yet. 



Carychium exiguum var. Mexicanum PiNbry (PI. XIV, figs. 7, 8. 9.) 



Shell cylindrical. Whorls 4^. Aperture equal to, or a trifle ex- 

 ceeding one-third the total altitude of shell. Outer lip thickened at 

 and beloic the middle by a very heavy deposit of callus upon its face. 

 Lower fold of the columella sub-obsolete. Surface delicately 

 striated. 



Orizaba, Mexico. 



Carychium occidentalis Pilsbry i Pi. XIV, tigs. 4, 5, 6.) 



Shell distinctly conical, tapering. Whorls 5. Aperture very 

 oblique, larger than in C. exiguum, the outer lip flatly expanded, 

 thin, not at all thickened on its face. 



Portland, Oregon, is the only locality from which I have seen 

 this species. 



Carychium exile H. C Lea. (PI. XIV, figs. 10, 11, 12, 13, 14.) 



Shell elongated. Whorls 5-5 j. Aperture small, very oblique, 

 about one-third the length of the shell. Outer lip more or less thick- 

 ened. Surface closely, regularly and very distinctly striated. 




320 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



Eastern Pennsylvania (H. C. Lea) ; Kent, Ohio (Geo. W. Dean.) 



Lea found this form on the Wissahickon Creek, near Philadel- 

 phia, but I have not been able to rediscover it there. 

 Carychium exile viir. Jamaicensis Pilsbry 'PI. XIV, figs. 1."), 16.) 



Mucli elongated, similar to C. exile, but the surface smooth, not 

 perceptibly striated. 



Jamaica (Robert Swift collection). 



Genus MELAMPTJS Montf. 

 Melampus coffea L. 



Progreso and Silani (61470), Yucatan. 

 Melampus coffea var. microspira I'ilsbrv n. var. 



Distinctly shouldered, spire extremely short, the earlier whorls very 

 closely coiled, the last whorl becoming wide ; color uniform pinkish- 

 olive. Alt. 13 mm., diam 82 mm., length of aperture 12 mm. 



Progreso, Yucatan (61471). 



Family LIMNJEID^. 

 Genus LIMN5:A l.am. 

 Limnaea attenuata Say. 



Lake Chalco, Mexico (61483). 



This common form bears the same relation to our northern L. 

 reflexa, that Planorhis tenuis bears to PL trivolvis. 

 Limnaea Cubensis Pfr. 



Rather small specimens of this were collected in the stream at 

 Orizaba (61482 and 61481). They vary much in the degree of 

 exsertion of the spire. 



A few notes on the synonymy of this and allied species may not 

 be out of place here. 



The L. umbilicata C. B. Ad. is completely synonymous with L. Cub- 

 ensis. Havana specimens of the latter are absolutely indistinguish- 

 able from the Vermont L. ambilicaia in our collection, received fi'om 

 Professor Adams himself L. Cubensis (-j- umbilicata) is perfectly 

 distinct from L. eaperata Say, and from L. humilis Say, with both 

 of which it has been confused by some authors. 



The typical Cubensis ranges at least as far west as the Mississippi 

 River, and eastern Texas. West and southwest of this it gives 

 place to L. techella Hald., and L. bulimoides Lea. The last form 

 may be considered a geographic race or subspecies of the Cubensis. 

 L. techella Hald. is nearly identical with umbilicata. 




1891. J XATL'RAL SCrE>X"ES OF PHILADELPHIA. 321 



The synonymy and range of the forms mentioned may 1)6 

 summarized as foUow.s : 



L. Cubensis Pfr. 



Syn. : L. iimhilicata C. B. Ad. ; L techella Halil. 



Habitat : Xew England to Cuba ; westward to St. Louis, Missouri, 

 southwest to Texas and Province of Vera Cruz, Mexico. 

 L. Cubensis \ ar. bulimoides Lea. 



Haliitat : Western U. S., east to Dakota, Central Nebraska (at 

 Ogallala, coll. by Simpson), and Western Texas. 



The European h. truncatula Miill. is scarcely separable from 

 Cubensis in conchological characters. I have retained the European 

 and American forms separate because their areas of distribution are 

 now so distinct that interbreeding can no longer occur. 



The L. humilis Say is likely to be confused with small examples 

 of L. Cubensis, but it differs in having the expansion of the columella 

 much narrower and of a wholly different form. Say's types of L. 

 humilis are before me. 



(ienus ANCYLTIS Geoff. 

 Ancylus excentricus Morelet. 



Shkolak, Yucatan (61787). 



I may mention here that Ancylus excentricus Morelet has been 

 collected in Comal Creek at New Braunfels, Texas, and therefore 

 may be expected throughout Eastern Mexico. The same is true of 

 Planorhis cultratus Orb., which I have also received from Southern 

 Texas. 



(ienus PLANORBIS ' Guettard. 



Planorbis tenuis Phil. 



An abundant species in the vicinity of the City of Mexico (61607 ; 

 61780; 61781; 61625). 



The form called var. Boucardi by Crosse & Fischer intergrades 

 perfectly with the typical tennis in Lake Chalco. In Lake Patz- 

 cuaro a form was collected which is referable to P. tenuis v. Bou- 

 cardi, but in which the characters of that variety are considerably 

 exaggerated. One of these (No. 61625 of the collection) is figured 



1 Planorbis glabrattis Say has not been found in Mexico; nor does it range 

 in the United States, outside of the peninsula of Florida. The P. glabratus of 

 authors is not the trut g/abraius of Say. 




322 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891.. 



on pi. XV, fig. 4. See, in this connection, the remarks under 

 Physa Patzmarensis. 

 Planorbis Caribseus Orb. 



Shkolak, Yucatan (61778). 



The specimens correspond in ev^ery detail with Havana examples 

 of P. CaribcEus received from Arango. 

 Planorbis tumidus Pt'r. 



Vera Cruz (61775; 61591); Orizaba (61779). 

 Planorbis Maya Moielet. 



Merida, Yucatan (61538; 61529). These are larger than indi- 

 cated by MM. Crosse & Fischer, measuring, alt. 2|, diam. raaj. IH,. 

 diani. niin. 9 mm. 



Planorbis orbiculus Morelet (1S49). 

 (Syn. PL Haldemani Dkr., 1S50, not C. B. Ad. 1849.) 



San Juan, near Vera Cruz (61593). 

 Planorbis Liebmanni I»kr. 



Vera Cruz. 



A form closely allied to the preceding, but smaller, with the last 

 Avhorl wider. I regard the identification as undoubtedly correct. 



This species occurs in Texas also, as far north as Austin. 



Planorbis retusus Morelet ? 



Specimens probably referable to this species were collected at 

 Shkolak, Yucatan (61777). 

 Planorbis parvus !^ay. 



Specimens in every respect typical were collected at Yautepec, 

 Mexico (61592). 



Genus PLANORBULA llald. 

 Planorbula obstructa Morelet. 

 Ticul, Yucatan (61589). 

 This species occurs abundantly in Texas as fiir north as Austin. 



Family PHYSID^ Dall. 

 Genus PHYSA I»rap. 



The Mexican Physse have been referred by MM. Crosse & Fischer 

 to six species, as follows: Mexicana Phil., Boucardi C. & F.,Strebeli 

 C, & F., Berendti Dkr., squalida Morelet and Tehuantepecensis 

 C. & F. Of these names, Boucardi is a synonym of osculans 




1891.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 323 



{=Mexicana, vid. infra) ; Strebeli, Berendti and Tehuantepecensis 

 are very closely allied to squaUda, being perhaps only local forms. 



A critical review of the Physse of the United States^ causes me to 

 recognize in that area eleven species and about the same number of 

 local forms or geographic races susceptible of diagnosis.' 



Most Mexican specimens of Physa differ from those of the East- 

 ern United States in lacking a thickening or rib within the lip- 

 margin in the adult state. This is probably due to the far less 

 amount of difference between the seasons, and the consequent lack 

 of periodicity of growth in the shells. This peculiarity extends, as 

 might be expected, to the Californian species ; but in some arid local- 

 ities, aestivation during the season of excessive drought produces 

 practically the same shell-structure as that caused by the winter 

 hybernation of our Northern Physie. 



Physa osculans Ilald. 



LakeChalco, City of Mexico (61627); City of Mexico (61584 

 and 61586) ; Lake Texcoco (61585) ; Between San Angel and Coyoa- 

 can, south of the City of Mexico (61587); Yautepec (61788 and 

 61526). 



An examination of Haldeman's types of Physa osculans (Monog. 

 Limniades, pi. 2, figs. 11, 12), renders it certain that the Physa 

 Mexicana of Philippi is synonymous. The fig. 13 of Haldeman's 

 plate is a different species, as the author of the Monog. Limniades 

 himself supposed. The Physa Boucardi of Crosse and Fischer is 

 likewise a mere form (no! a variety) of osculans, the alleged differ- 

 ences having no specific or varietal weight, whatever, in this genus. 



Physa osculans is readily distinguishable from the eastern forms 

 P. hetrostropha, Integra and gyrina ; but several described Californian 

 Physas present no differences from the Mexican species, and must be 

 considered synonyms. 

 Physa osculans vur. Patzcuarensis Pilsbry. n. var. (PI. XV, fig. 5. i 



Shell thin, light, obcouic, very broad across the upper part of the 

 body-whorl, narrow below ; spire short, small, acute, composed of 

 four rapidly enlarging whorls, the first one black. Columella long, 

 vertical, slightly sinuous ; lip strongly arcuate above, thin ; color 

 light-brown or whitish ; surface shining, wholly lacking spiral lines, 



^ ?>te Shells of Furest and Stream, a handbook of Northern United States 

 land and fresh-water shell-, now in preparation. 



* During the course of my studies of U. S. Physa I have examined type spec- 

 imens of almost every one of the described species, nearly fifty in number. 




324 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADKMY OF [1891. 



obscurely and finely longitudinally plicated. There are no varieeal 

 thickenings, no internal lip-rib, and the surface is nowhere mal- 

 leated. 



Alt. 15, diain. 11 ; alt. of apert. 12?, greatest width 6 J mm. 



Lake Patzcuaro, Mexico (61629). Animals of the same suite in 

 alcohol. 



This shell resembles the more extreme forms of Pliysa ancillaria 

 Say (known as PA. LordI Bd. and Ph. Parkeri Cur.) ; and it perhaps 

 bears the same relation to Ph. osculans Hald. that Ph. ancillariav, 

 Lordi bears toward Ph. heterostropha. 



The relation of my new form to the boreal American types named 

 is, however, only one of analogy ; for the Lordi is demonstrably an 

 extreme development of the heterostropha type, while my Mexican 

 shells belong to the group of PA. oscwZans, being in my opinion a 

 geographic race of that species. 



The cause of the dilation of the body-whorl in these shouldered 

 Physas has not been explained. I would suggest that the form in 

 these cases is correlated with an increase in the capacity of the air 

 sack or lung, which occupies that part of the shell. Observation of 

 tlie habits of the snail would probably reveal the reason for this 

 additional lung capacity. It is not unlikely the result of a more con- 

 tinous or ])rolonged subaquatic residence. Precisely the same modi- 

 fication is found in the Planorbis before me from this same Mexican 

 lake (Patzcuaro), evidently induced by the action of the same 

 causes. 



Physa squalida Morelet. 



Orizaba (61530; 61583; 61598; 61581); Vera Cruz (61582). 



A very abundant species at Orizaba. This is the Mexican rep- 

 resentative of the Physa Integra of Haldeman, a species usually 

 confounded in the United States with P. heterostropha Say. I have 

 compared the Orizaba specimens with squalida received from 

 Morelet. 



This species frequently exhibits varieeal thickenings (indicating 

 former peristomes), like its Northern ally P. integra. In this respect 

 it differs from PA. osculans. 



The more lengthened forms of Ph. squalida resemble somewhat 

 Ph. pomilia Conrad. 



Uenus APLEXA Flem. 



The number of Mexican species of this geinis has been about fifty 

 per cent over-estimated by Crosse and Fischer. This opinion is 




1891.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 325 



founded on an examination of many specimens, and I express it -with 

 all due respect to the authors named. 



They seem to have overlooked the description and figure of Physa 

 (^Aplexa) princeps Phillips, described from Yucatan, in tlie Pro- 

 ceedings of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, III, 

 p. 66, pi. 1, fig. 11 (May, 1846). The figure is very good. 

 Aplexa cisternina Morelet. 



Izamal (61601), Tekanto (61599), Shkolak (61770) and :\rerida 

 (61524), Yucatan. 



Aplexa nitens Phil. 



Vera Cruz; San Juan, near Vera Cruz (61771). 

 Aplexa nitens var. spiculata Morel. 



Merida, Yucatan (61600). 

 Aplexa sp. 



Shkolak (61772, 61773). Forms I have been unable to identify. 



Family CYCLOPHORID^. 

 (iemis CYCLOTUS (niilding. 

 Cyclotus Dysoni Pfr. 



One of the most abundant land shells of northern Yucatan. It 

 was collected at Silam (61458; 61461). Shkolak (61459), Tekanto 

 (61452), Labna (61435), Tunkas (61452), Ticul (61460), Sitilpech 

 (61462), Tabi (61463), and between Sitilpech and Tunkas (61457). 



The specimens from Tabi, Ticul and some other localities are 

 prettily varied by numerous dark spiral lines and bands ; these may 

 be named form multUineatus. Many specimens have the costuke of 

 the surface simple, not all undulating, not anastomosing. 



Cyclophorus (Cyrtotoma) — 1 



Two broken specimens of a species apparently new, were collected 

 at Orizaba (61486). 



Family AMPULLAEIID^. 

 fienus AMPULLARIA Lam. 

 AmpuUaria flagellata Say. 



My examination of Say's type of this species proves that ^1. mul- 

 leata Jonas is a synonym. The specimen, now before me, upon 

 which Say founded hi? species, is a dead shell, lacking the epidermis ; 

 it is moderately but not conspicuously malleated, and on the latter 




326 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



part of the body-wliorl obscurely plicated in the direction of the 

 lip-edge. It is multifasciate with brown. 



The species is excessively abundant in the environs of Vera Cruz 

 (whence Say procured it). It varies widely in respect to sculpture 

 and color, but the numerous Vera Cruz specimens before me are 

 rather constant in size, agreeing in the main with Say's type, which 

 measures as follows: — 



Alt. 38 mm. ; diam. 35 mm. ; greatest length of mouth 32 mm. ; 

 width of mouth (measured at a right angle to its length) 21i mm. 

 The aperture of this specimen is expanded, — a variation not uncom- 

 mon in the series before me from Vera Cruz. (No's. 61447, 61446, 

 61448, Acad. Coil.) 



The illustrations given by Crosse it Fischer on pi. 44, figs. 6, 6a, 

 6b, 6c, 6d and 6e, of the Exped. Scientifique du Mex., represent the 

 species as found around Vera Cruz, but smoother forms are also 

 abundant, and spiral dark bands are visible on most specimens. 



AmpuUaria sp. 



San Juan, near Vera Cruz (61450). 

 AmpuUaria Yucatanensis Crosse & Fischer. 



"Twin cenotas," Shkolak, Yucatan (61456). 



Family VALVATID^. 

 Genus VALVATA Miill. 



Of this genus six species are found on the mainland of Xorth 

 America. 

 Valvata humeralis Say. 



Lakes around the City of Mexico (61484). Lake Patzcuaro, 

 West Mexico (61444) 



The specimens from the last locality I at first regarded as a dis- 

 tinct species; but making due allowance for the modification under- 

 gone by all species of snails found in this lake, I am disposed to con- 

 sider it a variety of humeralis. Compared with Say's type specimen 

 of the latter, the L. Patzcuaro shells have the whorls more rapidly 

 increasing, the last whorl being notably of greater diameter than, 

 the corresponding volution of humeralis ; the umbilicus is narrower, 

 the subsutural fiattening, so obvious in Say's shell, is not at all con- 

 spicuous. The obtuse basal carina is as in the type. No good figure 

 of /iwmera/id' has-been published, that given by Strebel having the 

 spire too much raised ; it is rather obtuse in the shells before me 




1891.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 327 



from the City of" Mexico, as well as in Say's type; tlie exact locality 

 of the latter is not given on the label, which is in the fine hand-writ- 

 ing of Mrs. Say, like many of Say's labelled types. 



Results of great importance to l)iology might be derived from a 

 study of the conditions of life in Lake Patzcuaro ; the shells of 

 various genera seem to be modified in such definite directions that 

 the problem of the origin of certain forms would probably be pre- 

 sented to the observer in comparatively simple terms. It is un- 

 fortunate that although some hundreds of shells of various species 

 were collected there by Prof. Heilprin and Mr. Baker, their limited 

 time did not permit them to gather information on the physical char- 

 .acteristics of the lake. 



Family AMNICOLID^ Tryon.i 

 (ienus POTAMOPYRGUS Stimj.-on. 



This genus of spinose rissoids is represented throughout Central 

 America and the West Indies by numerous forms ; also extending 

 into Northern South America, and to the northward ranging as far 

 as Comal County, Texas. 



The species are excessively polymorphic, and their number can onlv 

 be ascertained after a great numl)er of specimens have been examined. 

 ^\s a rule, without exception, every species (or variety, whichever 

 the forms prove to be) is dimorphic ; there is a spinose, angulate 

 form, and an acuminate, ecarinate one. Generally both are found 

 in the same locality. This curious dimorphism has caused at least 

 two names to be applied to every species or form. Thus, Paladina 

 crystallina Pfr. is the ecarinate form of P. coronata Pfr. ; Hydrobia 

 Texana Pilsbry bears a like relation to P. spmosa Call & Pilsbrv, 

 etc., etc. 



Potamopyrr/us is a genus of great antiquity, extending at least as 

 far back as the early eocene. It now" comprises all of the fresh- 

 water rissoids of New Zealand, a majority of those of Australia, with 

 species in west Africa and tropical America. 



As a contribution to the life-history of these interesting little 

 snails, I may mention that the form discovered by me in Texas, P. 

 (^coro)iatus yar f) spinosus C. it P., is viviparous. The young are 

 globular, translucent, having a little over one whorl at birth. 



1 As a seciional term under Amm'co/a I would propose the name Cincin- 

 NATIA for A. Cincinnaliensis, founding ihe distinction upon its more minute 

 .radula and tiie far liner denticulatiou of the teeth. 




328 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



As to the number of naturally defined Neotropical species lam in 

 doubt ; but the examination of my material (including as many as 

 a pint of the shells of some species) causes me to believe that there 

 are about four or five, although this may possibly be either over or 

 under estimated. I do not undertake here a revision of them for 

 the reason that Crosse and Fischer have already reached the Hydro- 

 biidse in the progress of their magnificent work. 



Ancey's Pyrgophorus (Bull. Soc. Mai. Fr. v, p. 188, 192, 1888) is 

 a synonym of Potamopyrgus. Curiously enough, iSIr. Ancey does 

 not seem to be aware that any spinose rissoids had been described 

 from America ! He proposes the name P. coronatus {de novo, not 

 of Pfeitfer), for the form found at Vera Cruz, which Strebel calls 

 P. coronatus Pfeifter. This form is doubtless the same as my P. spin- 

 osus from Texas, but it is doubtfully distinct from the species as 

 fuund further South. 



Potamopyrgus coronatus Pfr. Var. 



Highly sculptured forra.s, probably referalde to this species were 



collected at Shkolak (61595), Merida (61597) and between Sitilpech 



and Tunkas (61576), in Yucatan. 



Potamopyrgus Bakeri Pilsbry. n. sp. (pi. XV, figs. 9. 10. 11.) 

 F. Bakeri Filsbry. The Nautilus iv, May, 1891. 



Shell slender, elongated, tapering, the altitude more than twice the 

 diameter. AVhorls 5i, very convex, separated by deeply impressed 

 sutures; apex somewhat obtuse. Aperture small, ovate, its length 

 contained more than three times in the length of the shell ; peristome 

 continuous, thin. Umbilicus a closed rimation behind the inner lip. 

 Surface marked by delicate growth-lines, having low, inconspicuous 

 longitudinal folds (sometimes quite regular and well marked on the 

 upper whorls), and encircled by numerous fine, subobsolete spiral 

 strije. Alt. 4, diam. 1*9 mm. 



Dug from the bank of a stream east of Yautepec, Mexico. 

 (61578). 



The specimens being subfossil are denuded of the epidermis and 

 white in color. They are in sculpture not unlike some feebly 

 sculptured forms of that truly protean species Tryonia protea Gld., 

 but are readily distinguishable from that type specifically, and even, 

 as I believe, generically ; for the present species seems to me to bean 

 aspinose form of Potamopyrgus, differing from all other known 

 species and forms of that genus in its much more slender, narrow 




1891.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 329 



contour. I liave given the name in recognition of the services of Mr. 

 F. C. Baker, who collected the specimens. 



(4enus PYRGULOPSIS Call &. Pilsbry. 

 Pioc. Davenport Acad. Nat. .Sci. vol. v, p. 9, May, 1886. 



This genus was proposed for a number of small shells which agree 

 in being ovate-conical or turreted, the whorls having a single strong 

 carina at the periphery, which may or may not be concealed on the 

 spire. The ajjex is acute. There are 4V to 6 whorls. Apertnre 

 ovate, peristome continuous. Axis imperforate. The dentition is 

 figured in the place cited above. The genus has nothing to do with 

 Fyrgula, which belongs to a different subfamily (Baikaliince)? 

 Lyrodus of Doring" may prove more nearly related. 



It has been suggested to me that the finding of carinate forms of 

 P. Nevadensis proves that the carinate forms are distorted by the influ- 

 ence of the concentrated waters of the lakes inhabited by the species ; 

 but would any malacologist seriously advocate the view that the 

 smooth spineless forms of Potamopyrgus hold a like relation to the 

 spinose, carinate types? or that the two Mississippi Valley species of 

 Pyrgulopsis (found in company with perfectly normal specimens of 

 Amnicola, Bytliinella, etc.) owe their carinate contours to the same 

 cause ? 



Besides the original illustrated monograph of this genus by Pro- 

 fessor Call and myself in the Proceedings of the Davenport Academy 

 of Natural Sciences for 1886,'^ there has been an "Etude monogra- 

 phique du genre Pyrg}dopsis" (Bull. Soc. Mai. France, v, p. 185) 

 written by Mr. C. F. Ancey. This paper shows in a high degree 

 the futility of writing about things an author knows nothing about. 



The species of this genus are as follows : — 



p. Nevadensis Stearns. 



Pyrotda Nevadensis Stearns, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., p. 17.S, figure, (1883). 

 —Call and Beeclier, Am. Nat., Sept. 1884, Vol. XVIII., pp. 851-85o.— Call, 

 Bull. U. S. Geol. Survey, No. 11. 1884. 



Pyrgulopsis Nevadetisis Call & Pilsbry, Proc. Dav. Acad. Nat. Sci. Vol. V, p. 

 10, 1886.— Ancey, Bull. Soc. Mai. Fr. 1888, p. 189. 



This form has been found thus far only in northwestern Nevada, 

 in Walker and Pyramid Lakes. Entirely smooth forms, not dis- 



1 Beecher is wholly in error in referring Pyrgula to the Melaniida ; a family 

 distinguished from AmnicolidcB and Rissoidcz tiy the most obvious external char- 

 acters, such, for instance, as the genitalia. 



* Doring, in Boktin de la Acad. Nac. de Cien. en Cordoba, vii, p. 461,1885 

 3 In this paper, Potamopyrgus spinosus was considered a Pyrgulopsis. I had 

 at that time not yet examined its dentition. See under Potamopyrgus. 



22 




330 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



tiuguishable from Amnicola have been found. The species is not 

 closely allied to the two following, either of which it would be better 

 to regard as the type of the genus. 



P. scalariformis Wolf. 



Pyrgula scalariformis Wolf, Amer. Jouni. of Conch, vol. v. p. 198, pi. xvii, 

 fig. 3. 1869. 



Pyrgulopsis scalariformis Call & Pilsbry, Proc. Dav. Acad. Nat. Sci., vol. v, p. 

 14, 188(5. — Pilsbry, Shells of Forest and' Stream, pi. 14, fig. 2«. — Ancey, Bull. 

 Soc. Mai. Fr. 1888, p. 190. 



For description and figures see Shells of Forest and Stream (in 

 preparation). It has been found only at the original locality, " on 

 the Tazewell shore of the Illinois River." No living specimens have 

 been taken. This species it would be best to regard as the type of 

 Pyrgulo'psiB. 



P. Mississippiensis Call k Pilsbry. 



Pyrgula scalariformis var. Mississippiensis Pilsbry, Amer. Naturalist, Jan. 1886; 

 p. 75. 



Pyrgulopsis Mississippiensis Call & Pilsbrv, Proc. Dav. Acad. Nat. Sci. vol. v, 

 p. 13, 188B.— Ancey, Bull. Soc. Mai. France, 1888, p. 191.— Pilsbry, Shells of 

 Forest and Stream, pi. 14, figs. 23, 24, 25. 



Of this species I have examined very many specimens, dredged 

 by myself in the Mississippi River, at and just below the mouth of 

 Rock River, Illinois. It has characters constantly separating it 

 from the scalariformis. Both are figured and described in my hand- 

 book of northern U. S. moUusks, Shells of Forest and Stream. 



The following species is referred provisionally to Pyrgulopsis ou 

 account of its similarity in contour to the shells of that genus. In 

 possessing fine spiral lines it resembles Potaonopyrgus ; and if it is 

 found to have the very characteristic dental characters of the last 

 named genus, and is viviparous, it must be transferred. 



Pyrgulopsis ( 1 ) Patzcuarensis Pilsbry n. sp. (Pi. XV, fig. 8). 

 The Nautilus, May, 1891. 



Shell turrited-conic, elevated. Number of whorls unknown, the 

 specimen being broken ; the remaining 3 J whorls are strongly cari- 

 nated in the middle, concave immediately above and below the keel ; 

 the last whorl is obtusely shouldered midway between keel and 

 suture, and the median carina becomes less conspicuous. The aper- 

 ture is oval, not oblique ; peristome continuous, its inner margin 

 thickened. Umbilicus reduced to a narrow fissure. Color of 

 epidermis olive ; surface marked by delicate growth lines and exces- 

 sively fine close spiral striae. 



Alt. 5'2, diam. 3 mm.; Alt. of apert. 2, width r3 mm. 



Lake Patzcuai'o, Mexico (61588). 




1891.] ^^A.TURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 331 



This form is so distinct that I unhesitatingly describe it, although 

 no perfect specimens were obtained. 



In general form the shell recalls the P. Nevadensis Stearns, de- 

 scribed from Pyramid Lake, Nevada ; but the encircling carina is 

 less strong, the portion of the whorl above the keel is much more 

 convex. The fine spiral sculpture of the Mexican shell also dis- 

 tinguishes it. 



Genus COCHLIOPA Tiyon. 



Cochliopa Tryoniana Pilsbry, (pi. XV. fig. 12 .) 



C. Tryoniana Pilsbry, The Nautilus iv, p. 52, September, 1890. 



Figures are here given of this species, which is the second of the 

 genus described. It is from Polvon and Rio Fula, Nicaragua. A 

 large number of specimens are before me. They vary gr'eatly in 

 form and sculpture. Sometimes the body-whorl is acutely^carinated, 

 and the surface encircled with numerous acute lirul«, but on some 

 specimens this sculpture is almost obsolete. Old specimens become 

 thick and solid, losing to a great extent, the spiral sculpture. 



The measurements of two specimens are as follows : 



Alt. 4, greater diam. 4i, lesser 4 mill. 



Alt. 3J, greater diam. 4, lesser 3^ mill. 



Family CYCLOSTOMID^. 

 Genus CHONDEOPOMA Pfr. 

 Chondropoma (Cistula) Largillierti Pfr. 



An extremely abundant species in northern Yucatan. After 

 examining several hundred specimens I find that a separation of the 

 more coarsely ribbed forms from the finely decussated examples is 

 not practicable, and I therefore agree with Dr. von Martens in 

 uniting the Cistula Grateloupi to C. Largillierti. The apex is some- 

 times retained perfect in adult specimens of this species, several of 

 these anomalous individuals being before me. 



The exact localities are: Labna (61472), Santa Ana, near Cal- 

 cehtok (61473), Silam (61416), Merida (61466), Tekanto (61468, 

 61467), Tunkas (61464), Uxmal (61463), between Sitilpech and 

 Tunkas (61475), and at Tabi (61474). 



The polymorphism of this species is wonderful. Adult specimens 

 vary in length from 17 J to 9 mm. The color varies from a clear 

 yellowish-white with numerous rows of brown spots, to dark red. 

 The shape also is subject to great mutations. 




332 TROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



Family HELICINID^. 

 Genus HELICINA Lam. 

 Helicina arenicola .Morelet. 



A most abundant sj^ecies in northern Yucatan. The published 

 illustrations very inadequately represent this beautiful species, which 

 is as variable in coloration as the H. orbiculata Say. Specimens 

 were collected' at Silam (61442), Ticul (61440), Labna (61438), 

 Tabi (61437), Uxmal (61443), Tunkas (61436), Santa Ana near 

 Calcehtok (61439), and between Sitilpech and Tunkas (61441). 



Helicina lirata Pfr. 



Numerous specimens taken at Labna, Yucatan (61479). Spec- 

 imens were collected by Mr. C. T. Simpson at Utilla Island, oif 

 Honduras. 

 Helicina fragilis Morelet. 



Specimens of a sn)all, thin, greenish-horn colored turbinate species 

 were collected at Orizaba (61478), and at Vera Cruz (61477). The 

 columella is toothed exactly as in Strebel's figures (referred by 

 Martens to this species), but the color is not as described by 

 Strebel. 

 Helicina cinctella Shutt. 



Orizaba (61480). 

 Helicina beatrix Angas. 



This species was not collected by the Expedition. From an ex- 

 amination of Gabb's specimens I am led to believe that von Mar- 

 tens is in error in referring this species to H. flavida Mke. Adult 

 specimens of if. beatrix measure alt. 10, diam. 9 mm., and differ 

 as much from Guatemala specimens oi H. flavida as most Helicinas 

 do from one another — certainly enough for specific discrimination. 

 The illustrious writer in the Biologia Centr. Amer. probably had 

 not seen authentic specimens. 



Sub-genus SCHAZICHEILA Shutt. 

 Schazicbeila alata Mke. 

 Orizaba (61485). 



Family PROSERPINID^. 

 Genus PROSERPINA Gray. 

 Proserpina (Ceres) Salleana Cuming. 



Both the red and the buflT forms were collected at Orizaba (61455 

 and 61454). 




1891.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 333 



APPENDIX A. 



During the few hours spent in Havana the following species were 

 collected by Mr. Baker : 



Oleacina solidula Pfr. (61605). 



Stenogyra octona Ch. (61573). 



Patula vortex Pfr. (61604). 



Polygyra paludosa PlV. 



Carocolus (Thelidomusi auricoma IVr., var. zetaPfr. (61572.) 



Bulimulus sj). 



Limnaea Cubensis Pfr. 



Vaginulus occidentalis Guild. 



The specimens were marked by a longitudinal row of angular 

 black spots on each side of the middle, on most individuals coales- 

 centjinto black stripes. 



Ampullaria conica Wood. (61574.) 



explanation of plates. 



Plate xiv. 



Figs. 1, 2. Carychium exlguum Say, typical. Drawn from speci- 

 mens from Kent, Ohio, collected by Geo. W. Dean. 



3. Carychium exiguum Say, showing umbilicus. Specimen 

 from Vermont. 



4, 5, 6. Carycidmn occidentaUsVW^Yy. Portland, Oregon. 



7, 8, 9. Carychium Mexicanum Pilsbry. Orizaba, Mexico. 

 , 11. Carychium exile H. C. Lea. Kent, Ohio. 



12, 13, 14. Carychium exile Lea. Specimen with thick peri- 

 stome. 

 15, 16. Carychium exile var. Jamaicense Pilsbry. Jamaica. 

 (Swift Collection). 

 Note. The profile views are all drawn with the shell rolled to the 

 left only enough to bring the plane of the inner and outer lips coin- 

 cident with the line of vision. The figures of this plate are 

 drawn to the same scale. 



Plate xv. 

 Figs. 1, 2, 3. Patula intonsa Pilsbry. Three views of type, spec- 

 imen, highly magnified. 



4. Planorhis tenuis Phil. var. Boucardi C. & F. Lake Patz- 

 cuaro, W. Mexico. Natural size. 



5. Physa osculans Hald, var. Patzcuarensis Pilsbry. Lake 

 Patzcuaro. Natural size. 



6. 7. Oryzosoma Tabiensis Pilsbry. Magnified view of the 



type, with profile of aperture. Hacienda of Tabi, 

 Yucatan. 



8. Pyrgulopsis f Patzcuarensis Pilsbry. Magnified view of 

 the type. Lake Patzcuaro, W. Mexico. 




334 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



9, 10, 11. Potamopyrgu.s Bakeri Pilsbry. Three individuals, 

 showiug variation in contour. 



12, Cochliopa Tryoniana Pilsbry. View of a highly sculp- 

 tured form, enlarged. 



13, 13a. Cylindrella BourguigncCtiana Kwcey. Utill a Island, 



off Honduras. Specimen collected by Chas. T. 

 Simpson. 



14, 14a. Cylindrella speluncce var. dubia Pilsbry. 



15, 15a. Cylindrella spelimcce Pfr. Specimen from Ticul, 



Yucatan. 



16, Carychium exiguum Say. Specimen broken to show the 

 internal continuation of the columellar folds. 




1891.] N.VTUKAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 335 



June 2. 

 Mr. Thomas Meehan, Vice-President, in the chair. 

 Forty persons present. 



Papers under the following titles were presented for publication : — 

 " A Memoir on the Genus Palseosyops Leidy, and its allies," by 

 Charles Earle. 



"New American Myxomycetes," by Geo. A. Rex, M. D. 

 Henry C. Chapman, M. D., was elected Curator to fill the vacancy 

 caused by the death of Dr. Leidy. 



June 9. 

 Mr. Chas. p. Perot in the chair. 

 Thirty-three persons present. 



"A Memoir of Joseph Leidy, M. D., LL.D.," by Henry C. 

 Chapman, M. D., was presented for publication. 



June 16. 

 Mr. Thomas Meehan, Vice-President, in the chair. 

 Twenty persons present. 



June 23. 

 Mr. Thomas Meehan, Vice-President, in the chair. 

 Twenty-four persons present. 



A paper entitled " Description of a new species of Vampyrops," 

 by Harrison Allen, M. D., was presented for publication. 



June 30. 

 Dr. Geo. H. Horn in the chair. 

 Twenty-one persons present. 



On the Wings of Bats. — Dr. Harrison Allen spoke of the man- 

 ner in which the membranes of bats are sustained in the intervals 




336 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



between the several parts of the normal skeleton. The so called 

 calcaneum is an accessory process to the tarsus and is designed to 

 support the interfemoral membrane. Dr. Allen proposed to name 

 this process the calcar. In Vesperugo noctula he had found a pro- 

 cess passing down from the calcar, in the form of a delicate rod, mid- 

 way between the base and the free end. An accessory cartilage at 

 the side of the tip of the fifth metacarpal bone, was next alluded to. 

 It is apparently intended to give additional support to the mesopat- 

 agium. It is absent in Pteropodidie, Megadermadidie and Phyllos- 

 tomididt«. In Nyderis the terminal segment to the caudal series is 

 widely expanded and serves to support the margin of the interfemoral 

 membrane. The fact that the preserving of these various minor 

 adaptations is not universal, suggests the conclusion that the mechan- 

 ism of the flight of the bats is not the same in all the forms, and that 

 something of the same kind of differences that are known to exist in 

 birds, could be detected if the facilities which are available in 

 case of the latter, existed for their investigation. 



Wm. J. Serrill and B. Alexander Randall, M. D., were elected 

 members. 



August Weismann of Freiburg, i. B. and Elias Metschnikoff of 

 Dorpat, were elected correspondents. 



The following were ordered to be published : — 




1891.] NATURAL SCIKNCES OF I'lIILADELl'HIA. 337 



ECHINODERMS FROM THE BAHAMA ISLANDS. 

 BY J. E. IVES. 



In the year.< 1887 and 1888, :\Ir. Frederick Stearns of Detroit, 

 made a collection of Invertebrates in the Bahama Islands, He col- 

 lected upon Andros and other islands near Nassau. The following 

 list represents the Echinoderms obtained by him. It includes a 

 description of a new species of ^l??i^Amra. The accompanying plate 

 bas been prepared for publication through Mr. Stearns' liberality. 



ECHINOIDEA. 



Cidaris tribuloides hainavck. 



Numerous specimens collected. 

 Echinometra subangularis Leske. 



Numerous specimens found in living sponges, in three fathoms of 

 water, on the west side of Andros Island. 

 Toxopneustes variegatus Lamarck. 

 Hipponoe esculenta Leske. 



Numerous specimens collected. 

 Echinanthus rosaceus Linna-us. 



A single specimen collected. 



ASTEROIDEA. 



Astropecten articulatus Say. PL XVI, figs. 4-.S. 



Asterias artitulaia S ly, Journ. Acad. Xat. Sci. Phila. (1 ), voL V, p. 141, 1825 ; 

 Miiller und Troschel. System der Asteriden, p. li, 1842; Dujardin et Hupe, 

 Suites a Buffon, Echinodermes, p. 419, 1862; Liitken, Vidcnsk. Meddel. pp. 

 127-129, 1864; Terrier, Arch. Zool. Exper. t. 5, pp. 29(J-291, 1878, (pars.) 



A single specimen of this species was collected. 



Two such eminent authorities as Dr. Liitken and Professor 

 Alexander Agassiz^ have differed as to tbe identification of Say's 

 species. Professor Perrier in the " Revision des Stellerides, " has 

 given Profes.sor Agassiz's A. articulatus as synonymous with Dr. 

 Liitken's A. articulatus, but a comparison of Profe-ssor Agassiz's 

 figures with Dr. Liitken's description, at once shows the difference 

 between the two forms. Say's description, in my opinion, would re- 

 fer more precisely to the form described by Dr. Liitken, than to 

 that described by Professor Agassiz. Say states that the species he 



1 Mem. Mus. Comp. Zool. Vol. V, pp. 114-116, PL XIX. 




338 PR0CEP:DINGS OP" THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



described " is very common on the coast of East Florida and on the 

 sea Islands of Georgia. " My friend Mr. C. W. Johnson, who has 

 collected for eight years at St. Augustine, on the east coast of Florida, 

 informs me that the form described by Liitken is the only species of 

 Astropeden whicli he has found in that region. There appears to 

 me, therefore, to be very little doubt that this is the form originally 

 described by Say. 



The species figured by Professor Agassiz as Astropeden articu- 

 latns Say, I believe to he the Astropeden duplicatus of Gray.' 



Prof. Perrier has included A. dubius Gray under the synonymy 

 of A. articulatus, h\it this species is undoubtedly distinct from A. 

 articulatus Say, as defined by Dr. Liitken, and is probably identical 

 with A. duplicatus Gray. 



Below is given a translation of Dr. Liitken's careful description of 

 A. articulatus. In addition to this it may be said that in the living 

 animal the upper side-arm-plates are orange-colored, the paxilla- 

 area of the disk and arms ])urple, and the side arm-spines purple. 



" Of quite considerable size, (about 6 inches in diameter), with 

 rather long and pointed arms. Proportion between the radii about 

 as 1 : 4. Arm angles acute. Edge-plates about 50. In the middle 

 of the arms the paxilla-belt is still twice as wide as the edge-plates ; 

 the paxillse, whose structure and arrangement are as usual on the 

 disk, become larger and are composed of larger grains ; in the mid- 

 dle of the disk they became again smaller and more delicate. The 

 madreporic plate lies nearer to the edge-plates than to the middle 

 of the disk. The upper edge plates are covered with grains, 

 which become fine and bristle-like around the edges of the plates. 

 On the outer half of the arm there may appear on each of these 

 plates, a little low spine or protuberance. It is not unusual for it 

 to be missing on one or another plate, or on several successive plates, 

 but it is very unusual for it to go beyond the middle of the arm. I 

 dare not assert positively that it can be absent entirely, as it may, 

 perhaps, have been only lost through wear, in the examples in 

 which I have not been able to convince myself of its existence. The 



1 See Prof. Perrier, Arch. Zool. Exper. pp. 271-272. 



In my paper entitled " Echinoderms from ihe northern coast of Yucatan and 

 the harbor of Vera Cruz," Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1890, pp. 330-331, I 

 identified an Aslropecten, collected at Vera Cruz, as Astropecten articulatus Say, 

 on account of its resemblance to Prof. Agassiz's figures. If, as assumed above, 

 the true A. artictilattis Say is the form described by Liitken, then the specimen 

 collected nt \'era Cruz is the .-/. duplicatus Gray. 




1891.] NATURAL SCIENCKS OF PHILADELPHIA. o'>9 



lower edge-plates are closely covered with small spines of somewhat 

 diverse size ; the finest small bristles are situated around their edges ; 

 the largest form a transverse row along the aboral edge, and consti- 

 tute a transition to the two rather short and weak, somewhat 

 curved, horizontal edge-spines placed side by side, Avith which each 

 plate is provided. The foot-papillse usually form two rows ; in the 

 inner row are three slender spines in a group, of which the inner- 

 most is the longest and somewhat curved ; in the outer row ai'e two 

 broad, flat, low, equally truncated, spade-formed papillae side by 

 side, of which the one nearest to the mouth (the adoral) in all 

 respects stands behind the other ; more rarely there are three papil- 

 lae in this row. Outside of it, there are, as a rule, in addition, 1-3 

 small papillie, which in the neighborhood of the mouth become 

 larger and more numerous, so that 7-8 can be counted in each group 

 besides the 3 or 4 which belong to the inner row. Mouth plates 

 covered closely by scale-like papillae. " ^ 

 Astropecten duplicatus Gray. 

 Luidia clathrata Say. 



A single specimen collected. 

 Pentaceros reticalatus Linnseus. 



A single specimen collected. 

 Linckia Guildingii(Tray. 

 Ecliinaster spinosus Retzius. 



A single specimen collected. 



OPHIUROIDEA. 



Ophiura cinerea Muller und Troschel. 



A single specimen collected. 

 Ophiactis MuUeri Lutken. 



Numerous specimens found in sponges on Andros Bank. 

 Amphiara Stearnsi n. sp. PI. XVI, figs. 1-3. 



Disk angular, outer edge of the interbrachial spaces strongly 

 concave ; covered above and below with fine scales, some larger 

 scales are found in the brachial spaces. Kadial shields of moderate 

 length, very narrow, widely separated by the scales of the disk, 

 parallel with each other. Mouth shields large, sub-pentagonal, 

 one of the angles directed towards the mouth, widest at the aboral 



1 I wish to express my indebtedness to Mr. Fred. F. Myhlertz, the Danish 

 Consul in Philadelphia, for having examined this translation for me. 




340 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891, 



edge, aboral edge convex, lateral edges slightly concave. Side- 

 mouth-shields pyriforni, the angle directed inwards and towards 

 the mouth shield. Mouth papillae usually ten to each angle, the 

 second and third counting from without inwards, the largest, 

 angular ; the fourth and fifth more slender, rounded ; the first or 

 outermost small and angular. 



Arms long, about ten times as long as the diameter of the disk. 

 Upper-arra-plates sub-triangular, the apex of the triangle pointing 

 towards the end of the arm, and much rounded off". Lower-arm- 

 plates quadrilateral, the aboral and lateral edges slightly concave. 

 Side-arm-plates about as high as the width of the upper-arm-plates ; 

 meeting neither above nor below. Three stout arm-spines about as 

 long as the upper-arra-plates. One large oblong tentacle scale, 

 about two-thirds of the length of the under-arm-plate. 



General color of the dried specimen described, white ; dorsal sur- 

 face of the arms with a dark mottled band upon every fourth plate. 



In the specimen described, diameter of the disk o'o mm., and 

 length of an arm about 50 mm. 



This species is characterized by the fine scaling of the disk, with 

 the interspersed larger rounded scales ; the very narrow and widely 

 separated radial shields; the banded arms; the single large tentacle 

 scale, and the five mouth papillae on each side of the month angle. 

 It approximates Amphiura nereis^ and Amphiura tumida' but 

 differs among other things in the single large tentacle scale and the 

 widely separated radial shields. 



A single specimen found in a living sponge on Andros Bank. 



Optiothrix Oerstedii Lutken. 



Numerous specimens found in living sponges on Andros Bank. 

 Astrophyton costatum Lyman. 



A single specimen sent to Mr. Stearns from the Bahamas. 



EXPLANATION OF PLATE XVI. 



Fig. 1. Amphiura Stearnsi n. sp. Portion of the dorsal surface of 

 the disk and arras, much enlarged. 



Fig. 2. Portion of the ventral surface of the disk and arm, much 

 enlarged. 



Fig. 3. Portion of the lateral surface of an arm near its base, 

 much enlarged. 



1 Lyman, Bull. Mus. Comp. Zool. Vol. X, p. 250, PI. V, fijrs. 61-63. 



2 Lyman, op. cit. Vol. V. p. 225, PI. IL figs- 28-30. 




I891.J NATURAL SCIE^'CES OF PHILADELPHIA. 341 



Fig. 4. Astropeden articulatus Say. Dorsal surface, natural 

 size. 



Fig. 5. Ventral surface, natural size. 



Fig. 6. Portion of dorsal surface of an arm, at about one-third of 

 the distance from its base, enlarged. 



Fig. 7. Portion of lateral surface of an arm, near its basc^, en- 

 larged. 



Fig. 8. Portion of ventral surface of an arm, at'about one-third 

 of the distance from its base, enlarged. 




342 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891 • 



MEMOIR 



OF 



JOSEPH LEIDY, M. D., LL. D. 



BY 

 HENRY C. CHAPMAN, M. D. 



" And this our life, exempt from public haunt, finds tongues in trees, Ijooks in 

 the running brooks, sermons in stones and good in everything." 



It falls to the lot of but few, living in the midst of a great com- 

 munity for nearly three score years and ten, to have never made an 

 enemy during that long period, but to have gained universal af- 

 fection, esteem and respect. Yet such may in truth be said of the 

 subject of this memoir. 



The ancestors of Dr. Joseph Leidy were of French-German ex- 

 traction and came to this country as missionaries. Mr. Philip Leidy, 

 his father, was born in Montgomery County, Penna., December 5, 

 1791, and removed, when a young man, to Phihidelphia, where he 

 engaged in the trade of a hatter. He soon retired from business in 

 which he had been unusually successful. 



He married Catlierine Melick, a descendant of the well known 

 Melick family, the founders of the celebrated " Old Farm " in New 

 Jersey. 



Joseph Leidy, the third of four children by this marriage, was 

 born September 9th, 1823, in Philadelphia, at his father's house, No. 

 312 N. 3rd. St., which is still standing. When but a year and a half 

 old, he experienced in the death of his mother a loss that would be 

 usually and justly regarded as irreparable. His ftither, however, in 

 marrying shortly afterwards, Christiana, the sister of his first wife, 

 gave to Joseph, a step-mother it is true, but one who never knew 

 any difference between him and her own children. He loved her 

 as a mother, for as he said upon one occasion, " I knew no other 

 mother; to her I owe every advancement in life." 



His early education was obtained at private schools. While 

 still a child, he showed an appreciation of natural objects, taking par- 

 ticular interest in minerals and plants. The boy, however, had 

 early evinced such remarkable ability as a draughtsman that his 

 father had taken him away from school when about sixteen years 

 of age with the intention of educating him as an artist. 



At about this pei'iod, the youth passed much of his time in a 

 wholesale drug-store near his home. Such good use did he make of 




1891.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF I'HILADKLPHIA. o43 



the opportunity there presented of learning the nature of drugs and 

 the art of compounding medicines, that tlie proprietor recommended 

 him as competent to take temporary charge of the retail drug-store 

 of a customer. The success attending his conduct of the l)usiness 

 was such as to make him consider it seriously, as a means of live- 

 lihood. The dissection of a few cats, dogs and chickens had, how- 

 ever, in the mean time, developed an interest in the study of anat- 

 omy and he had shown such an aptitude for dissection that Mrs. 

 Leidy, proud of Joseph's talents and ever watchful of his interests, 

 made up her mind that her son should become neither an artist 

 nor an apothecary, but a physician. As Dr. Leidy said fifty years 

 afterward in referring to the circumstances connected with his 

 taking up the study of medicine as a profession : " My father 

 intended I should be an artist, but my mother said that her children 

 should learn the professions. She, being the stronger, carriel the 

 point." 



In the year 1842, at the age of nineteen, Joseph Leidy began 

 the study of medicine at the University of Pennsylvania, his 

 preceptors being Dr. Paul B. Goddard and Dr. James McClintock. 

 He presented to the Faculty a thesis on " The Comparative 

 Anatomy of the Eye of Vertebrated Animals" and having complied 

 in other respects with what was in those days deemed essential as a 

 pre-requisite to graduation, in 1844 he received the degree of Doc- 

 tor of Medicine. He at once began the practice of his profession, 

 to which he devoted himself about two years. During that period, 

 and even before, he had worked in the laboratory of the celebrated 

 Dr. Robert Hare, and had assisted Dr. Goddard who was then 

 Demonstrator of Anatomy at the University. Becoming impressed 

 with the grave responsibilities incurred in the practice of medicine, 

 of the demands on the time of the successful practitioner and the 

 little leisure left to him for study. Dr. Leidy finally decided to 

 give up the practice of medicine, with all hope of its emolument, and 

 to devote his life entirely to study and teaching, trusting that event- 

 ually, in the attainment of a Professorship, he would obtain at least 

 the means of livelihood. 



Haud facile emergunt, quorum virtutibus obstat res angusta domi. 

 For some time, young Dr. Leidy experienced that struggle with 

 hardships and obstacles, incidental to the lives of so many great men, 

 which talent, when accompanied with hard and continuouswork, alone 

 overcomes. While a student, however, Dr. Leidy, by his skill in 




344 PROCEEDINGS OF THK ACADEMY OK [181)1. 



dissecting, had impressed Professor Hornor most favorably and he 

 was, therefore, shortly after his graduation, appointed to the position 

 of Prosector to the chair of Anatomy. 



During the summer of 1845 Dr. Leidy was elected a member of 

 the Boston Society of Natural History, a compliment greatly appre- 

 ciated, he being so young a man. A few weeks later, on the 

 evening of July 29th., he was elected a member of the Academy 

 of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, with which institution his 

 name was inseparably connected until the day of his death. 

 Through the opportunities for advancement liberally afforded by this 

 society, he was enabled to accomplish the scientific work of his life. 

 Shortly after becoming a member of the Academy, he was elected 

 Librarian, which position he held for twelve months, and so efficiently 

 were his duties performed that on the expiration of his term of 

 office a vote of thanks was tendered him. Vacating the office of 

 Librarian he was elected one of the Curators. At the annual meet- 

 ing in 1847, he made his first report as Chairman of the Board of 

 Curators, a position he held continuously until the time of his death, a 

 period of forty-four years. During his years of membership. Dr. 

 Leidy, until almost the close of his life, attended regularly the Tues- 

 day evening meetings of the Academy. The Proceedings and Jour- 

 nal giving ample evidence of the number, variety and value of his 

 contributions to all branches of natural science during that long 

 period. 



In the year 1846, he left the University for a time, having 

 been elected Demonstrator of Anatomy in the Franklin ISIedical Col- 

 lege. After one session at that institution he returned to the Uni- 

 versity and w^as again associated with Dr. Hornor. At this time he 

 also gave a private course of lectures on anatomy, which attracted 

 considerable attention. 



During the spring of 1848 Dr. Leidy accompanied Dr. Hornor to 

 Europe, visiting England, France and Germany. On his return 

 he began a course of lectures on histology and in the following 

 spring lectured on physiology at the Medical Institute. Incessant 

 application, however, threatened him with seriousillness, and although 

 ambitious and full of enthusiasm he was obliged to give up all work 

 for some months. He was elected a member of the American 

 Philosophical Society in 1849. The late Dr. George B. AVood 

 having been elected to the chair of Practice of Medicine in the 

 University, went abroad the same year for the purpose of making 




1891.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. o45 



a collection of models, specimens, drawings, etc., with which to 

 illustrate his lectures and invited Dr. Leidy to accompany him, 

 knowing that he would be of great assistance in selecting the 

 collection required. This visit, as well as the previous one abroad, 

 was of the greatest possible advantage to Dr. Leidy, as he was not 

 only afforded the opportunity of seeing the great museums of 

 Europe under most pleasant auspices, but also of making the acquain- 

 tance and acquiring the friendship of such distinguished anatomists 

 and physiologists as Owen, Majendie, Milne Edwards, Hvrtl, 

 Johannes Miiller, and many others. 



On his return home, Avith health restored and spirits renewed, he 

 took up again with enthusiasm his work as Prosector at the Uni- 

 versity. During this year, 1851, he was elected a member of the 

 College of Physicians, and in 1852 he was appointed to the position 

 of Pathologist to St. Joseph's Hospital. 



The health of Professor Hornor having in the mean-time been 

 much impaired, he was unable to continue his course of lectures dur- 

 ing the winter of 1852. He requested the Board of Trustees to ap- 

 point Dr. Leidy his substitute. So admirable were the lectures then 

 delivered, and so satisfied were the students with Dr. Leidy as a 

 teacher, that upon the death of Dr. Hornor, in 1853, the substitute, 

 though then but thirty years of age, was elected Professor of Anatomv 

 in the University. This position he held with the most distinguished 

 success till his death, a period of nearly forty years. His lectures were 

 lucid, graphic and practical, and were listened to by the students, bv 

 whom he was beloved and respected, with the most profound attention. 

 No attempt at oratory was ever made, no rhetorical flourishes were 

 ever indulged in, the instruction being of the simplest character, 

 but of the highest scientific excellence. Many were the anecdotes 

 and amusing stories told of the Professor by the students, but they 

 always redounded to his fame, and usually illustrated his Avonderful 

 knowledge of the structure of the human body. It was universallv 

 conceded that he was the highest authority on the subject of human 

 anatomy in this country, and it may be added was equalled by few 

 abroad, surpassed by none. 



About this period the subject of paleontology attracted Dr. Leidv's 

 especial attention, and, as we shall see when considering his scientific 

 work in detail, much of his time was now devoted to its studv. 

 23 




346 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



In 1854 he became a member of the Publication Committee of the 

 Academy, upon Avhich he served continuously to the time of his 

 death, being chairman of the same since 1867. 



The civil war breaking out, he was appointed Surgeon to 

 the Satterlee Military Hospital, his youngest brother, the late Dr. 

 Philip Leidy, so beloved by his comrades, taking a most active part 

 during four years as surgeon in the field. It w'as at the Satterlee 

 Hospital that the opportunity was afforded of obtaining many of 

 the beautiful preparations illustrative of his lectures on human 

 anatomy and of making important post-mortem examinations, the 

 reports of which were published in the "Medical and Surgical 

 History of the War." 



Upon the organization of the National Academy of Sciences in 

 1863, he was elected one of the members. 



In 1864 Dr. Leidy married Anna, daughter of Mr. Robert 

 Harden. The union was a most happy one. Not being blessed with 

 children, they some years later adopted Alwinia, daughter of the 

 late Professor Franks of the University of Pennsylvania. Dr. and 

 Mrs. Leidy at once became so much attached to their little daughter, 

 and she so devoted to her parents, that it seemed as if the love that 

 had been so freely given to the son by his foster mother was now 

 to be lavished by him upon his adopted daughter. 



In 1871 Dr. Leidy was elected Professor of Natural History in 

 Swarthmore College, a position for which he was eminently qualified, 

 and which he filled to the entire satisfaction of the managers and 

 friends of that institution. His simple, attractive way of imparting 

 his vast knowledge of nature, fairly captivated the students and 

 stimulated in them a love for natural science, one result of which was 

 constant but unsuccessful attempts to find an object in nature un- 

 known to their teacher. 



In the year 1875, accompanied by his wife, he went abroad 

 for the third time and while renewing the friendships made on 

 previous visits, he made many new friends among the leaders 

 of thought in London, Berlin and Paris. 



On the re-organization of the Zoological Society and the establish- 

 ment of the Zoological Garden in 1876, Dr. Leidy was elected one 

 of its Directors, holding the position till his death. Though not a 

 regular attendant at the meetings of the Board, he took an active 

 interest in the welfare of the Society, and was ever ready to give 

 the benefit of his advice, when asked to do so. Indeed his last 




1891.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 347 



official act, one week before bis deatli, was his attendance at the 

 meeting of the Board of Directors of the Zoological Society, May 

 24th, in response to a request to be present. On that occasion he 

 spoke in reference to certain matters of importance then under 

 consideration. 



As a fitting recognition of the services rendered by Dr. Leidy to 

 the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, he was unani- 

 mously elected its President in 1881. This position he held at the 

 time of his death. 



The Biological Department of the University of Pennsylvania 

 having been established in the year 1884, he was made its Director 

 and was also elected to the positionof Professor of Zoology and Com- 

 parative Anatomy. The latter appointment was a most congenial one, 

 as it afforded him the opportunity of delivering a systematic course 

 of lectures on those subjects to the study of which he had devoted the 

 best years of his life. As a further proof of the respect and esteem 

 in which he was held by his townsmen, it should be mentioned that 

 in the following year, 1885, he was elected President of the Wagner 

 Free Institute of Science. 



In the year 1886 Harvard University honored him by conferring 

 upon him the degree of Doctor of Learning and Laws. 



Not often has a prophet been honored in his own country as 

 was Dr. Leidy. That his services to science, however, were not 

 over-estimated by his personal friends and admirers, is shown by 

 the honors conferred upon him by the learned societies abroad, 

 among Avhich was membership in the following, not already referred 

 to. The list is probably incomplete : — 



Naturhistorischer Verein fur das Grossherzogthum Hesse und 

 Umgebung, 18 18 ; American Academy of Arts and Sciences, 1849 ; 

 Societe de Biologic, Paris, 1851 ; Medical Society of Virginia, 1852 ; 

 Linnean Society of Pennsylvania College, Gettysburg, 1853 ; Societe 

 Imperiale des Xaturalistes de Moscow, 1853; Logan Institute, 

 Virginia, 1853 ; Zeosophical Society of the University of Pennsyl- 

 vania, 1853; Philomathian Society of the University of Pennsyl- 

 vania, 1854 ; Societe des Sciences, des Arts et des Lettres du Hain- 

 ault, 1854; Dallas Historical Society, 1855; Iowa Lyceum, Des 

 Moines, 1855; Natural History Society of Charleston, S. C, 1855 ; 

 Academy of Sciences, St. Louis, Mo., 1856 ; K. Leopoldinisch- 

 Carolinische Deutsche Akademie der Naturforscher, 1857; Zoological 

 Society of London, 1857 ; K. Baierische Akademie der Wissen- 




348 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



schaften, 1858 ; Dublin University Zoological and Botanical Associa- 

 tion, 1859 ; Burlington County Lyceum of History and Natural 

 Sciences, 1859 ; K. Bohmische Gesellschaft der Wissenschaften, 1860 ; 

 R. Accadeniia economico-agraria dei Georgofili di Firenze, 1861 ; 

 K. K. Zoologisch-botanischer Verein, Wieu, 1861 ; Geological 

 Society of London, 1861 ; Dublin Natural History Society, 1863; 

 Minnesota Historical Society, 1863 ; Entomological Society of 

 Pennsylvania, 1864 ; College of Physicians and Surgeons, Reading, 

 1870; Anthropological Society of London, 1872 ; Linnean Society 

 of London, 1872 ; Minnesota Academy of Natural Sciences, 1873 ; 

 Societe Nationale des Sciences Naturelles de Strasbourg, 1873 ; 

 Sociedad Mexicana de Historia Natural, 1874 ; Literary and 

 Philosophical Society of Liverpool, 1877 ; Historical Society of 

 Pennsylvania, 1884 ; Biological Society of Washington, 1884 ; New 

 York Microscopical Society, 1884 ; K. Danske Videnskabernes 

 Selskab, 1886 ; Essex Institute, 1887 ; Victoria Institute, or Philo- 

 sophical Society of Great Britain. 



Of the many honors conferred upon Dr. Leidy by the societies of 

 this country and abroad, none surprised him as much as the award- 

 ing to him, by the Boston Society of Natural History, of the Walker 

 prize of $500, which on this occasion was raised to 81000 as a special 

 recognition of his services to science. He was also the recipient of 

 a prize from the Royal Microscopical Society in 1879, and he was 

 awarded the Lyell medal by the Geological Society of London in 

 1884. The Academy of Sciences of Paris deemed him most worthy 

 of the Cuvier medal in 1888. 



Dr. Leidy went abroad in the summer of 1889 for the fourth and 

 last time, accompanied by bis wife and daughter. Unfortunately his 

 wife's serious illness while in London, marred considerably the 

 pleasure of the visit. Nothing could have exceeded the attention 

 and kindness of the medical gentlemen of London whom Dr. Leidy 

 consulted under these trying circumstances. He declared on his re- 

 turn that no more could have been done for his wife and himself had 

 they been at home. 



There now remains for the memorialist but little to add to what 

 has already been said. A long, pure and useful life was drawing to 

 its close. During the past year it had become painfully apparent to 

 those most attached to Dr. Leidy that the end was near. Though 

 weary in mind and sick in body, the brave old man struggled on, 

 proudly disdaining to ask assistance in doing what he regarded as 




1891.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 349 



his duty. His death, which occurred April 30th, 1891, was precipi- 

 tated by the severe strain experienced in the performance of his last 

 official professional duties. Xo language can express tlie loss the 

 members of the Academy felt that they had sustained in the death 

 of their President. The regret Avas universal, sincere, heartfelt ; the 

 one wish expressed being to pay every possible respect to the mem- 

 ory of their distinguished associate. 



In endeavoring to portray the personal character of Dr. Leidy, 

 the disposition to indulge in unrestricted eulogy becomes almost 

 irresistible, for the author, like his other friends, found in him no 

 faults, or if any, only such as were peculiar to a highly sensitive, 

 emotional and amiable nature. 



That which invariably impressed all who came in personal con- 

 tact with the great naturalist, was not so much his vast and extra- 

 ordinary knowledge of nature, as the modest and simple way 

 in which he described the rocks, plants and animals with which 

 he was so familiar. His unaffected humility, simplicity and entire 

 absence of self-assertion or conceit never failed to attract and charm 

 those with whom he was thrown in contact. His whole nature was 

 such as to inspire the utmost confidence, to make every one instinct- 

 ively feel that he was incapable of deceit or meanness of any kind. 

 The sterling integrity of his character was as preeminently mani- 

 fested in his daily as in his professional life. So charitable and 

 kindly was his nature that strife of any sort was most repugnant 

 to him. Indeed so much was this the case that in some instances 

 he submitted to what his friends regarded as injustice or imposition 

 rather than engage in contention or discussion. Though an inde- 

 fatigable worker and one of the closest of students. Dr. Leidy 

 was far from being a recluse. On the contrary, no one more 

 thoroughly enjoyed in a moderate way, the society of his friends 

 or contributed more to the success of a social entertainment. As 

 a relaxation from his work he was at one time fond of attending the 

 theatre, and he occasionally read a novel with the same end in view, 

 although general literature had for him but little attraction. 



While the life of Dr. Leidy regarded from the ordinary standpoint 

 was uneventful, it offers the rare instance of one steadfastly and unself- 

 ishly devoted to the study of nature ; of a long and useful career 

 unsullied by a stain and characterized as much by its sweetness, 

 simplicity and goodness as by its great mental achievements. 




350 PPvOCEEDIN(;s OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



Within tlie limits of this memoir the author can only indicate 

 the salient features of Dr. Leidy's scientific work, the discoveries 

 upon which were founded his great rei:)utation at home and abroad, 

 and upon which his future fame as America's most distinguished 

 biologist will probably rest. 



While he never regarded himself either as a mineralogist or a 

 botanist, yet those actively engaged in the study of minerals or 

 plants were always glad to avail themselves of his advice in the 

 pursuit of their investigations ; indeed so true was this as regards 

 precious stones, that jewellers of long experience never questioned 

 his estimate of the value of the gems frequently submitted by them 

 to his inspection. 



His familiarity with minerals in general was frequently shown 

 at the weekly meetings of the Academy, when, as Curator, he 

 called attention in an impromptu way to the additions presented 

 during the meeting to the mineralogical cabinet. Among such 

 verbal communications may be mentioned his remarks upon the 

 minerals from Mount ^Nlica, the tourmalines ; specimens of corundum 

 from North Carolina ; the mineral springs of Wyoming and Utah ; 

 the eroding and polishing of quartzite and jasper by the conjoint 

 action of wind and sand ; ozocerites from the Carpathian Mountains ; 

 topaz from Brazil and Siberia; precious opal ; rocks from South 

 Mountain ; the origin of citrine or yellow quartz, &c. 



In this connection it may be stated that the valuable collection 

 made by him has been purchased by the Government, and will be 

 preserved in the National Museum at AVashington. As with the 

 minerals, he would, as occasion offered, comment informally on 

 an interesting plant. In this manner communications were made on 

 Wolffia Columbiana, the smallest and simplest of all the true flower- 

 ing plants, only comparatively recently known to occur in the United 

 States, and on Chara and Vallisneria. The liairs of the Mullein 

 being under discussion he described the intra cellular circulation in 

 plants. His intimate acquaintance with botany was also shown by 

 the constant allusions made to the various kinds of plants noticed in 

 the different parts of the country visited by him in search of minerals 

 or fossils. The herbarium which he presented to the Biological De- 

 partment of the University contains over 1500 species of plants, col- 

 lected and determined by himself. 



Of the many contributions to natural history made by Dr. 

 Leidy, his observations upon the lower forms of life deserve 




1891.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PIIILADELPIIIA. ool 



especial notice, on account of their originality and value, and 

 as illustrating his remarkable ability as a microscopist and skill as 

 an anatomist and artist. For many years on different occasions, 

 while investigating with the microscope the minute creatures found 

 in the streams and ponds of the neighborhood, he, like others, 

 had incidentally noticed the presence of various forms of minute 

 animated beings consisting simply of protoplasm and called rhizo- 

 pods on account of their continually protruding and retracting 

 their bodies in a root-like or rhizome manner. They often form 

 shells of great beauty and variety. Becoming especially interested 

 in these low forms of life, he determined to lay aside all other work, 

 and to devote himself entirely to the study of these minute beings. 

 So studiously did he adhere to this resolution, that for several years 

 he allowed nothing to interfere with this especial study. With the 

 object of collecting material, he visited ponds, ditches and streams 

 in this and other States, examining also the mould on stones and 

 between the bricks of houses, and then patiently observed with 

 the microscope, and delineated with a master hand, the protean 

 amoeba-like changes exhibited in the life history of these wonderful 

 beings. 



The result of this incessant and arduous labor was the produc- 

 tion of the magnificent monograph " Fresh Water Ehizopods of 

 North America," which appeared in 1879 as one of the Reports 

 of the United States Geological Survey of the Territories. 



To those wishing to engage at some future time in similar re- 

 searches it may not prove uninteresting to know that this great 

 work was accomplished by means of a microscope that cost .^50, 

 provided with but two objectives of moderate magnifying power. 

 In the sediment of a few drops of water squeezed from a piece of 

 moss, thirty-eight different kinds of rhizopods, together with ex- 

 amples of Micrasterias, Euastrum, Doeidiuvi, Closterium and other 

 desmids, together with several species of diatoms, were revealed bv 

 this simple apparatus. 



Notwithstanding that Dr. Leidy invariably made use of verv sim- 

 ple instruments in his microscopical investigations, he rarelv made 

 mistakes, though the first to admit such when substantiated. In this 

 connection, it may be appropriately mentioned, that his observation 

 made in 1861, that the Gregarina, a minute unicellular entozoon, 

 infesting the stomach of the cock-roach and other insects, was 

 provided with muscular fibres, was questioned by European micro- 




352 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



scopists, and indeed, was denied by the elder Van Beneden. Thirty 

 years afterward, the observation was fully confirmed by the investi- 

 gations of the younger Van Beneden, who admitted that he must 

 agree with Dr. Leidy, even at the expense of his father's accuracy. 



Among the simple forms of animal life, though more highly 

 organized than the Rhizopods and Gregariuse, the sponges attracted 

 Dr. Leidy's attention. Among the more interesting forms described 

 by him, may be mentioned Fheronema Annae, so-named in honor of 

 his devoted wife. He was the first to correctly describe the position 

 which that exquisite siliceous sponge, the Eapledella of the Phili- 

 pines,*assumes in a state of nature and the manner in which it is 

 anchored by its strands, a reversed position having been previously 

 assigned to it by the greatest of English anatomists. The beautiful 

 hydroid, Eucoryne elegans, resembling a minute rose bush, was 

 dredged up by Dr. Leidy, in the bay of Newport. This, together 

 Avith sponges and other marine animals, supplied the material for 

 his paper in the Journal of the Academy entitled : " Marine In- 

 vertebrate Fauna of Rhode Island and Xew Jersey." Urnatella 

 gracilis, a peculiarly interesting fresh water polyzoon was discovered 

 by Dr. Leidy in the Schuylkill river just below the Fairmount dam. 

 Its body wall is so translucent as to permit movements of the ali- 

 mentary canal to be seen under the microscope. The mouth of the 

 polvp-head or bell is surrounded with a circle of ciliated tentacula. 

 It is described and beautifully illustrated in the Journal of the 

 Academy. 



While investigations like those just referred to are of interest to 

 the biologist, his researches in helminthology appeal also to the 

 medical profession and the entire community on account both of 

 their scientific and pi-actical value. The discovery, by Leuckart, 

 of the cause, and therefore of the mode of prevention, of trichinosis 

 in man, was entirely due, as that eminent authority himself says, to 

 the discovery by Dr. Leidy of Trichina spiralis in the pig. 



As far back as 1846, one morning while at breakfast, just as he 

 was about to partake of a piece of pork. Dr. Leidy noticed that it 

 contained minute peculiar specks, which after submitting to micro- 

 scopic investigation, he recognized as being encysted Trichinae. 

 The account of this observation, published in the Proceedings of the 

 Academy, attracting the attention of Leuckart, it occurred to the dis- 

 tinguished German helminthologist that trichinosis in man might be 

 due to the eating of raw pork containing trichinae. This was after- 




1891.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 353 



wards showu to be the case. Dr. Leidy's reputation as a helmiii- 

 thologist was world wide, and his numerous contributions to that 

 subject are held in the highest esteem abroad, being continually re- 

 ferred to in the standard works of Diesing, Leuckart, Cobbold and 

 others. Throughout the United States he was regarded as the high- 

 est authority on entozoa and parasites. Physicians from all parts 

 of the country were constantly sending to him for determination, 

 flukes, tape and thread worms, trichinae, ticks, etc., in the hope of 

 securing suggestions from him as to the best means of preventing 

 the recurrence of parasites in their patients. 



His " Observation on the Parasites of the Termites or White 

 Ants" published in the eighth volume of th« Journal of the Acad- 

 emy, was directlv in this line of investigation. His memoir entitled, 

 " A Flora and Fauna within Living Animals, " constituting part of 

 the Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge for 1853, had already 

 established in the most striking manner, the fact that the alimentary 

 canal of many animals such as beetles, cock-roaches and centipedes, 

 are the natural homes of a most diversified animal and vegetable 

 life. Indeed the mucous membrane of the intestines of certain 

 beetles presents the appearance of a flower garden. The description 

 of Enterohryus led Prof Robin to the later discovery of the species 

 in the Julus lerrestris of Europe. 



The w'ork just referred to is not only a remarkable one as hav- 

 ing revealed to the naturalist a number of new forms of animal 

 and vegetable life living parasitically within the bodies of higher 

 animals as their hosts, but as containing the most profound reflections, 

 the truth of which modern research has confirmed in every particular, 

 upon the origin and extinction of life upon the earth. In speaking 

 of the origin of entozoa and entophyta at page 9 of the paper under 

 consideration, the author observes : " The study of the earth's crust 

 teaches us that very many species of plants and animals became 

 extinct at successive periods, while other races originated to occupy 

 their places. This probably was the result, in many cases, of a 

 change in exterior conditions incompatible with the life of certain 



species and favorable to the primitive production of others 



Living beings did not exist upon earth prior to their indispensable 

 conditions of action, but wherever these have been brought into 



operation concomitantly, the former originated Of the life, 



present everywhere with its indispensable conditions, and coeval in 

 its origin with them, what was the immediate cause? It could not 




354 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



have existed upon earth prior to its essential conditions ; and is it, 

 therefore, the result of these ? There appear to be but trifling steps 

 from the oscillating particle of inorganic matter to a Bacterium ; 

 from this to a Vibrio, thence to a Monas, and so gradually up to the 

 highest orders of life I The most ancient rocks containing remains 

 of living beings, indicate the contemporaneous existence of the more 

 complex as well as the simplest of organic forms; but, nevertheless, 

 life may have been ushered upon earth, through oceans of th-^ lowest 

 types, long previously to the deposit of the oldest palaeozoic rocks as 

 known to us!!" 



Although, unfortunately for science, he rarely indulged in 

 such speculations, it may Avell be asked where in the whole range 

 of biological literature can there be found a more concise and 

 fitting statement of what is known as the theory of Natural Selection, 

 Survival of the Fittest or, in a w'ord, of Darwinism, than is expressed 

 in the above quotation. Prophetic words indeed : the " Origin of 

 Species" appeared five years later. 



As a further illustration of the wide range of his biologicnl 

 studies may be mentioned his knowledge of entomology. This was 

 shown in a most happy manner some thirty years ago by his reply to 

 the Councils of Philadelphia, in answer to their inquiries as to the 

 best methods of protecting the shade trees of the city from the 

 depredations of insects. Perfectly familiar with the structure, 

 development and habits of the canker worm, the scale bug, the 

 tufted caterpillar, the sack bearer, and the borer, the insects that 

 are most destructive to our shade trees, he suggested various simple 

 but effective methods by which the insects could be destroyed with 

 least injury to the trees. 



One would not suppose that the subject of" basket worms" would 

 be suggestive of poetical ideas, yet in speaking of the development 

 of the insects, he observes that, from the pupa case "is j)roduced 

 the moth, the male of which awaits the night to leave his habitation 

 in search of a mate. The female never leaves her silken dwelling, 

 nor does she even throw aside her pupa garment : it is her nuptial 

 dress and her shroud." 



Minute butterflies were always interesting to him, and the collec- 

 tion he made many years ago is still a very attractive feature in 

 the entomological collection of the Academy. 



Among his most important contributions to tiie anatomy of 

 insects should be mentioned his account of the structure of the walk- 




1891.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 355 



ing-stick insect, Specti'um femoratum, communicated to the Academy 

 in 1847, and his description of the mechanism by which the mem- 

 branous wings of the locust are closed. The anatomy of the hem- 

 ipter, Belostoma, then a rare insect, but lately quite commonly at- 

 tracted by the electric light, was the subject of a communication 

 appearing in the Journal of the Academy. The admirable figures 

 in that paper, as well as those illustrating the internal anatomy of 

 the neuropterous insect Corydalus cornuius in its three stages of 

 existence are to this day made use of by such high authorities as 

 Packard and others to illustrate their standard works on entomology. 



One of the most important of Dr. Leidy's observations upon the 

 structure of articulate animals was his discovery in 1848 of eyes in 

 barnacles, Balanus. It is especially interesting in this connection 

 to note the fact that Darwin remarks in his monograph on the 

 Cirripedia, p. 48, "owing to Professor Leidy's discovery of eyes in 

 a Balanus, I was led to look for them in the Lepadidse." 



During the same year there appeared in the American Journal 

 of the Medical Sciences his researches upon the comparative 

 anatomy of the liver. This communication is based upon the study 

 of the organ in numerous invertebrate and vertebrate animals and the 

 view is advanced that its structure is essentially the same in all orders 

 of animals. According to our author's theory, the liver consists 

 of more or less numerous membranous tubes or csecalined with 

 cells whose office it is to elaborate the bile from the blood sup- 

 plying the organ. As the bile so elaborated passes from the cells 

 into the spaces between them, and as these intercellular spaces 

 are continuous with the interior of the inter-lobular biliary duct, 

 they must be regarded as the beginning thereof. The intimate 

 structure of the liver does not differ then in any way from that of 

 any other true gland, the simplest expression of which is a basement 

 membrane separating a blood-vessel from a secreting cell. This view 

 of the structure of the liver was accepted by but few of the anatom- 

 ists of the day. It has, however, been shown by later study that the 

 liver begins as a diverticulum of the intestine in which the relation 

 of the basement membrane to the blood-vessels and secreting cells is 

 the same as that indicated by Dr. Leidy. Further modern investiga- 

 tion has shown that the liver contains more urea than any other gland 

 in the body, thus confirming the opinion as to the biliary function of 

 the tubes opening into the intestines of insects and which have been 




356 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



usually regarded as renal by most anatomists on account of their 

 containing uric acid and sodium urate. 



In 1844, Dr. Leidy, then twenty-one years of age, was asked by 

 Dr. Amos Binuey, of Boston, to contribute an article on the special 

 anatomy and physiology of the terrestrial gasteropoda of the United 

 States for the proposed general work on that subject then in prepara- 

 tion by the latter. Before the special anatomy was completed, the 

 death of Dr. Binney, unfortunately, put a stop to further work in 

 that direction. Nevertheless, the result of Dr. Leidy's investigations 

 were later published in Binney's work on the terrestrial gasteropoda 

 of the United States, as edited by Gould. To appreciate the im- 

 portance of this admirable monograph, beautifully illustrated from 

 drawings by the author, it must be remembered that at the time 

 of its appearance, the only systematic work on the anatomy of the 

 mollusca w\as Cuvier's classical treatise published in 1817. While 

 it is true that there are some errors of interpretation in Dr. Leidy's 

 paper, recognized later by the author, yet to this day it is in 

 the hands of every specialist and is continually referred to in the 

 standard works on the anatomy of the mollusca. In this connection 

 it is an interesting fact that the first scientific communication of any 

 kind, made by Dr. Leidy, at least as far as known to the writer, 

 was a paper on the anatomy of Littorina angulifera submitted July 

 16th, 1845 to the Boston Society* of Natural History and published 

 ill the Journal of that Society, no doubt on account of Dr. Binney's 

 interest in the author. 



The latter was not then a member of the Academy of Natural 

 Sciences of Philadelphia, but being elected a few days later, 

 July 29th, he presented, on the 14th day of the following October, his 

 first communication, "Notes taken on a Visit to White Pond, N. J."' 

 The extinct mollusca described in the paper may still be seen in the 

 Museum of the Academy. These specimens are interesting not only 

 as constituting the subject of his first communication to our society, 

 but as oflfering one of the few instances of descriptions of fossil in- 

 vertebrata to be met with in Dr. Leidy's numerous paleontological 

 works. It need not be added, however, that his knowledge of the 

 extinct forms of invertebrate life was as extensive and exact as was 

 his acquaintance with recent forms. 



When he began his biological studies, the waters of every ditch, 

 stream, and pond in the vicinity of the city, teemed with various 

 kinds of invertebrate life, unfortunately since destroyed by sewage 




1891.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELI'IIIA. 357 



and coal oil. Many of these were new to science and constituted, 

 as we have seen, the subject of most of his researches upon the 

 anatomy of the invertebrates. The opportunities afforded at that 

 time for investigating the anatomy of vertebrates, other than the most 

 common forms, were very limited, depending, as the Zoological 

 Garden had not been established, upon the chance of a travelling 

 menagerie losing a specimen by death while exhibiting in the city. 



His contributions to our knowledge of the anatomy of recent ver- 

 tebrates were, therefore, few in number. Among these may be 

 mentioned his communication in the Proceedings of the Academy, 

 illustrated with figures, on certain peculiar bodies resembling the 

 Pacinian corpuscles of man, found along the course of the intercostal 

 nerves in the boa constrictor. The anatomy of the abdominal viscera 

 of the three-toed sloth, the subject of another communication to the 

 Academy, is interesting as containing a description and figure of the 

 embryo sloth with membranes. 



In 1852 there appeared in the Journal of the Academy his im- 

 portant memoir " Description of the Osteological Characters of a 

 New Genus of Hippopotamus. " By a comparison of the skulls in the 

 Museum of the Academy, the author proves that the animal from 

 Liberia not only differs from that of the Nile, as had been previously 

 supposed by Dr. Morton, but that it belongs to a diflierent genus 

 which he named at first Chverodes, but afterward Chceropsis, the 

 former name having been already adopted for an insect. It is an 

 interesting fact that while his opinion of the generic distinction of 

 Chceropsis from Hippopotamus was not accepted by the zoologists of 

 that day and is questioned by many even now, its correctness has 

 been fully established by the recent researches of one of the highest 

 authorities, Prof. Alphonse Milne Edwards. 



Dr. Leidy's contributions to the general or histological anatomy of 

 vertebrates were but few in number. Mention should be made, how- 

 ever, of his communications to the Academy and to the American 

 Journal of Medical Sciences, on the development of the Purk- 

 injean corpuscles of bone, the structure of the intercellular sub- 

 stance of articular cartilage, and the disposition of the sheath of 

 muscular fasciculi. Dr. Leidy, in the paper first mentioned, showed 

 that the bone cells, or Purkinjean corpuscles, are derived from the 

 pre-existing cartilage cells, the canaliculi being prolongations or pro- 

 trusions of the cell wall. As regards the structure of the intercellular 

 substance of articular cartilage, basing his observations on the fact 




358 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



that the latter fractures in a direction perpendicular to its surface, 

 he showed that it consists of extremely line, transparent filaments, 

 upon the existence of which depends the disposition of the cells 

 in rows. He also demonstrated that the filaments of fibrous tissue 

 forming the sheath of muscular fasciculi are disposed diagonally 

 around the latter, becoming straight at their rounded extremities. 

 He pointed out the advantage, functionally, of such arrangement, by 

 which the muscular power is conveyed to the parts to be moved with- 

 out entailing any loss. 



As an illustration of the extent and variety of his researches in 

 histology, it may be mentioned that about this period he translated 

 from the German, Gluge's Atlas of Pathological Histology, a standard 

 work at that time. 



Dr. Leidy's studies of the structure of the human body were fully 

 set forth in his admirable treatise upon human anatomy, so that he 

 but rarely published any special communications upon that subject. 

 His researches, however, upon the development of the intermaxillary 

 bone in man, the structure and development of the temporal bone, 

 the nature and relations of the crico-thyroid membrane and adjacent 

 muscles of the larynx are well worthy of consideration. To Goethe, 

 great alike as philosopher, poet and naturalist, science is indebted for 

 the discover}' of the intermaxillary bone in man. Its recognition, 

 however, at the time Dr. Leidy began his study, had been confined 

 to abnormal conditions due to an arrest of development, as in hare-lip, 

 its exact limits and the period of life in which it occurs as a distinct 

 piece not having been accurately determined. He made it the sub- 

 ject of a special investigation. The result of his study, based upon 

 the examination of a number of human embryos, was embodied in his 

 observations on the existence of the intermaxillary bone, in which 

 not only was its development accurately described, but it was shown 

 that the same law governed the formation of the upper maxillary 

 bones in man as in all other vertebrates. 



It would hardly be supposed at the present day, considering all 

 that has been published on the development and structtire of the 

 temporal bone, that anything of importance would have been left 

 unsaid. As recently, however, as 1883, Dr. Leidy communicated to 

 " Science" the results of his study of that portion of the skull. He 

 prefaced his description with characteristic modesty by observing 

 that he laid no claim to having made any discoveries. Nevertheless 

 his views as to the development and relations of the auditory plate. 




1891.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 359 



the scute, the antrum and attic, based upon beautiful preparations, 

 differ so essentially from those given in systematic treatises that it 

 may be truly said he has thrown a flood of light upon the anatomy 

 of that most complex of bones. It should be mentioned in this con- 

 nection that while he admits, with Prof. Huxley, the presence of 

 two ossificatory centers in the development of the temporal bone, 

 the prootic and opisthotic, he views the so-called third centre or 

 epiotic bone, not as a distinct centre, but as a continuous out-growth 

 of the posterior semicircular canal. 



He was one of the few anatomists who described the vocal mem- 

 branes of the larynx as being membranes instead of cords. The latter 

 name, most inappropriate and misleading, was originally given to 

 them because it was supposed that the voice was produced in the 

 same manner as sounds are produced by the vibration of strings, 

 whereas the larynx is rather comparable to a reed instrument, such 

 as the oboe. 



In an excellent paper, well illustrated, he described accurately 

 the structure and attachments of the crico-thyroid membrane 

 as well as the relations of the adjacent muscles, more particularlv 

 of the thyro-aryttienoideus, and thyro-epiglottidseus, the superior 

 and inferior arytseus epiglottidseus. 



The first edition of the " Elementary Treatise on Human Anatomv" 

 was published in 1861. It is one of the best works ever oflered to the 

 medical profession on the subject, and more than fulfilled its 

 author's anticipations of usefulness. The work was prepared, not 

 in the hope that it would supersede the classical treatises already 

 before the profession, but to place in the hands of students and prac- 

 titioners of medicine a work on human anatomy which, while brief 

 and clear, should be sufficiently complete for all practical pur- 

 poses. The description of the various organs, illustrated by excel- 

 lent figures, many of them original, is always lucid and graphic. 

 Especially is this true of the observations upon general histology, 

 usually prefacing the descriptions of great systems such as the mus- 

 cular, alimentary, nervous systems, etc. One of the striking features 

 of the work is the employment in the text of the English name 

 only for the part to be described, the Latin or other synonyms 

 being given in foot notes, thus greatly simplifying the nomencla- 

 tui'e. The work throughout bears the impress of the comparative 

 anatomist, of one as familiar with the structure of an infusorial 

 animalcule as with that of the complex vertebrate. 




360 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



The variety, extent and exactness of Dr. Leidy's knowledge of 

 nature was unsurpassed, if equalled, by that of any living naturalist. 

 It was this familiarity with all natural objects w^hich invariably im- 

 pressed those brought in personal contact with him. If some min- 

 ute infusorian were casually mentioned in conversation, one would 

 have supposed from his remarks that he had devoted his life to the 

 study of the Protozoa; an intestinal worm being the subject of dis- 

 cussion, from his description of its structure, origin and mode of life, 

 it would have been inferred that helminthology was his exclusive 

 specialty. The opportunity of seeing him dissect an insect, mollusk 

 or vertebrate, would soon convince one that he was a most skilful 

 anatomist. A fragment of rock, a plant, a shell submitted to him 

 called forth criticisms worthy of the professional mineralogist, bot- 

 anist or conchologist. 



Profound as was his knowledge of living plants and animals, it 

 can be truly said that his acquaintance with the extinct forms of life 

 was equally so. Indeed it was his great familiarity with the existent 

 tvpes of vegetable and animal life that so eminently qualified him 

 to determine fossil forms. 



In the year 1847 Dr. Hiram A. Prout of St. Louis, published in 

 the American Journal of Science and Arts the description of a 

 fossil maxillary bone of Paleothermm, from near AVhite River, 

 Nebraska. This communication at once directed the attention of 

 geologists and paleontologists to the Mauvaises Terres. 



At about the same time Dr. S. D. Culbertson of Chambersburg, 

 Penna., sul)mitted to the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadel- 

 phia, some fossils sent to him from the Bad Lands of Nebraska by 

 Mr. Alexander Culbertson. These were afterwards presented to the 

 Academy by the collector and described by Dr. Leidy in the Pro- 

 ceedings, together with the paleotheroid form just referred to from 

 the same locality. 



The collection of fossils, in the possession of Prof. O'Loghland, of 

 St. Louis, as well as those made in the Bad Lands of Nebraska by 

 Dr. Evans, at the request of Dr. Owen of the Geological Survey of 

 Nebraska and by Captain Van Vliet of the U. S. Army, were 

 also placed at Dr. Leidy's disposal for description in the Pro- 

 ceedings of the Academy. The late Prof. S. F. Baird, fully appre- 

 ciating the importance of the discoveries, sent Mr. T. A. Culbert- 

 son to the Bad Lands of Nebraska. He returned with a most 

 valuable collection of mammalian and chelonian fossils. These 




1891.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 361 



specimens, with others obtained from the same locality, were sent 

 to Dr. Leidy by Prof. Baird, who, with his characteristic judg- 

 ment, remarked that Dr. Leidy, though but thirty years of age, was 

 the only anatomist then in the United States qualified to determine 

 their nature. 



The findingof these fossils, together with the appreciation of their 

 value and the recognition of their relations, constitutes a discovery 

 Avhich, if equaled, has never been surpassed in importance by auv 

 other contribution to paleontology. 



The " Ancient Fauna of Nebraska" appeared in 1853. It con- 

 tained descriptions of the fossil remains just referred to, together 

 with some previous publications to be mentioned hereafter, and was 

 the beginning of a most brilliant series of paleontological researches. 

 They extended over a period of more than forty years and culminated 

 in discoveries which, together with others made in the same field, are 

 regai'ded by many as going farther to establish the doctrine of evolu- 

 tion than all the other facts hitherto advanced in favor of that 

 theory. The remains of the extinct animals described in this work 

 excited a great deal of attention when submitted to the Academy, 

 as they were the first fossils brought from the tertiary beds of the 

 AVest. They were of a more generalized type of structure than those 

 living at the present day, a remarkable feature, especially in the case 

 of the Tertiary mammalian remains discovered, some of which, to a 

 considerable extent, bridged the gap between extinct and recent 

 mammals. These facts, commented upon as so remarkable at the 

 time, afterwards became perfectly intelligible in the light of the the- 

 ory that the early tertiary mammals must be regarded as the ances- 

 tors of those living at the present day. 



Among the ancient mammals from the tertiary beds of Nebraska 

 described by Dr. Leidy, may be mentioned Po'ehrothermm, a ruminant 

 nearly allied to the musk deer and through Procamelus, described 

 later by our author, the ancestor of the camel. Agrioclueriis and 

 Oreodon, peculiar ruminants, were especially interesting as filling up 

 the interval between J.?(o/)/o^/ie?-m?/i of Cuvierand recent ruminants, 

 as Zeuglodon, whose vertebrie were once so common in Alabama as 

 to be used for fences, and which bridges the gap between the 

 carnivora and the cetacea. Oreodon, intermediate in its structure 

 between the hog, deer and the camel, appears to have lived in 

 herds inhabiting the whole continent from Nebraska to Oregon. 

 Archeotherhnn, a recent genus of suilline ungulata, was an illustra- 



2-4 




362 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



tion of the generalized type of maninials -living in those early 

 tertiary times combining ruminant with carnivorous characteristics. 



The skull and jaws of the horse-like mammal Anchithermm, were 

 particularly important as being the remains of a genus hitherto 

 represented in Europe by other parts of the skeleton. 



In view of what has since been established regarding the gene- 

 alogy of the horse, it is interesting to find Dr. Leidy remarking 

 that "it is extraordinary that Anchitherium should be so much like 

 Paleotherium in the anatomical and physiological construction of its 

 teeth, and yet be so much like the horse in its skeleton." Titano- 

 therium, of which the lower-jaws, as already mentioned, w^ei'e the 

 the first fossils presented to the notice of the world from the great 

 mammalian cemetery of the West, resembles, according to Dr. 

 Leidy, the Paleotherium of Cuvier, though much larger than 

 Paleotherium viagnum. Later researches have sliown that Titano- 

 therinm has afiinities with Limnohyus and Paleosyops, afterwards 

 described by Dr. Leidy, as well Avith Brontotheriuvi. 



Two species of Rhinoceros w'ere described in the work as having 

 once inhabited the Bad Lands of Nebraska, the largest of the two 

 species being about three-fourths the size of Rhinoceros Indicus of 

 the present day. 



As an illustration of Dr. Leidy's remarkable knowledge of osteol- 

 ogy even at that early date, it may be mentioned that he established 

 this species of extinct Rhinoceros upon a few small fragments of 

 molar teeth, without having even those of a recent Rhinoceros with 

 which to compare them. The correctness of this determination was 

 questioned when the teeth were first brought to the Academy, it 

 being considered incredible that such an animal should have ever 

 lived in Nebraska. His opinion, however, was fully sustained 

 soon afterwards by the discovery of several entire molars together 

 with a complete skull of the animal. Of the remaining mammalia 

 described as occurring in Nebraska at that time should be men- 

 tioned Machairodus, recognized later as a synonym of Drepanodon 

 or the sabre-toothed tiger, which had already been found in 

 France, India and Brazil, and which no doubt preyed upon the 

 herds of Oreodon roaming over the country in those I'emote times, 

 much as the lion and tiger prey upon the deer in Asia and Africa 

 at the present day. 



A most striking peculiarity of the paleontology of the Bad Lands 

 of Nebraska, is the fossil turtles to be seen by hundx'eds particularly 




1891.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 363 



in the neighborhood of Bear Creek, which appears to have been at 

 one time a vast lake. All the turtles from this region submitted to 

 Dr. Leidy for determination appear to have been species of 

 Testudo. 



The " Ancient Fauna of Nebraska " is a very remarkable work not 

 only on account of the admirable descriptions it contains of animals 

 long since extinct whose existence on this continent, as in the case of 

 the rhinoceros, had never been suspected, but particularly in view of 

 the lack of opportunity to compare the fossil remains with those of 

 recent animals. The identification of fossil remains, the determina- 

 tion of their relations and aflBnities, always present difficulties to the 

 best comparative osteologists even when studied in connection 

 with such magnificent collections as those of the Royal College of 

 Surgeons or of the Jardin des Plantes. The accuracy of Dr. Leidy's 

 work is, therefore, specially worthy of note as he had no material 

 for comparison except that contained in the limited collections of 

 the Academy ; yet how comparatively few are the errors his suc- 

 cessors have indicated. 



The remains of the extinct gigantic sloths that inhabited North 

 America during the quaternary period, and which probably were 

 the ancestors of similar but smaller animals now living in South 

 America, early attracted the attention of American naturalists. 

 As long ago as 1797, Thomas Jefferson, in a communication to the 

 American Philosophical Society, described certain bones discovered 

 in a care in (xreen Briar County, Virginia, which he regarded, 

 on account of the claws, as being the remains of a carnivorous 

 animal which he named Megalonyx. The bones being sub- 

 sequently presented to the American Philosophical Society 

 were again described by Dr. Wistar, who, basing his opinion upon the 

 form and arrangement of the bones of the feet, suggested that 

 Megalonyx was a kind of Sloth and not a carnivorous animal as Mr. 

 Jefferson had very naturally supposed. An examination by the 

 great paleontologist Cuvier, of casts of these bones sent to him by 

 Mr. Peale, fully confirmed Dr. "Wistar's opinion as to the sloth-like 

 nature of Megalonyx Jeffersoni, as it was afterwards called by Dr. 

 Harlan. The original specimen described by Mr. Jefferson, now in 

 the Museum of the Academy, together with other remains of 

 Megalonyx, Megatherium, etc., obtained from Tennessee, ^Nli.ssissijDpi, 

 Kentucky, Alabama and Georgia, constituted the material upon 

 which was based Dr. Leidy's admirable " Memoir on the Extinct 




364 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



Sloth Tribe of North America " which appeared, beautifully 

 illustrated, in 1855, two years after the liublicatiou of the "Ancient 

 Fauna of Nebraska." 



At the time that Dr. Leidy began his researches upon the extinct 

 sloths considerable difference of opinion prevailed as to whether 

 certain bones that had been discovered since the sloth-like nature of 

 Megalonyx was satisfact-orily determined were the remains of that 

 animal or of one somewhat closely allied. Dr. Leidy showed con- 

 clusively that while several of the bones in question were those 

 of Megalonyx, many that had hitherto been regarded as such 

 were undoubtedly the remains of other extinct edentata such as 

 Gnathopsis, Mylodon, Megatherium, Scelidotheriuvi, etc., the generic 

 and specific characters of Megalonyx being clearly indicated as well 

 as those of the other edentata just mentioned, many of which 

 had already been described by Cuvier and Owen. As an illustration 

 of the exactness of Dr. Leidy's determination of the nature of 

 Megalonyx, it may be mentioned that in his first description he 

 attributed five toes to the hinder feet as well as to the fore feet, a 

 greater number than is known to belong to any other genus of the 

 Tardigrada. The cori-ectness of this view was fully substantiated 

 the following year by the discovery of remains oi Megalonyx among 

 which the particular bones of the feet that were missing in the spec- 

 imens previously described happened to be represented. These 

 were made the subject of some further observations upon the feet 

 of Megalonyx. 



The extinct fishes discovered in the Devonian deposits of Illinois 

 and Missouri and the Devonian and Carboniferous formations of 

 Pennsylvania now attracted his attention and were made the subject 

 of special communications to the American Philosophical Society 

 and the Academy. 



Among these interesting remains from the red sandstone forma- 

 tion of Tioga County, Pennsylvania, discovered by Charles E. 

 Smith, Esq. and described by Dr. Leidy, were those of Holoptychius 

 Americanus, a Ganoid fish represented at the present day in our 

 waters by the gar-pike and sturgeon, and those of Stenacanthus, a 

 Placoid characterized by its peculiar dorsal spine and supposed to have 

 been allied to the sharks of the present day. Another remarkable 

 and gigantic fish descril)ed by Dr. Leidy as living in the seas of 

 these remote times was Edestus vorax, the teeth of which, resembling 

 those of Carcharodon, are nearlv two inches long. These were 




1891.] NATUKAL SCIENCES OF rHILADELPIIIA. 365 



afterwards regarded as spines, which is also the opinion of Sir 

 Richard Owen. According to the recent researches of Trautschold, 

 however, the parts in question in Edestus are really teeth as 

 Dr. Leidy first supposed. 



Various genera, Cochliodas, Helodus, Cliomatodus and Ctenopty- 

 chius were also described, and their relations to the living Cestracion 

 Phillippi or Port Jackson shark of Australia were pointed out. 

 The jaws of this fish, a relic of the most remote ages and of living 

 Placoids, and resembling most the extinct carboniferous fishes just 

 mentioned, are covered Avith rounded plates much like a cobblestone 

 pavement, instead of the lancet-shaped teeth so characteristic of the 

 sharks of the present day. 



About this period the remains of the "Walrus discovered upon the 

 coasts of Virginia and New Jersey, were identified as being of the 

 same species as the recent Trichecus Rosmarus, which once lived in 

 great numbers in the Gulf of St. Lawrence. These remains were 

 regarded as those of individuals that had been floated upon fields of 

 ice and ultimately deposited upon our southern coasts, or of such 

 as may be supposed to have migrated to the South during the Glacial 

 epoch. 



It is well known that the remains of the Peccary have been found 

 in considerable quantities in the states of Illinois, Kentucky, Iowa, 

 Missouri and Virginia. Dr. Leidy was at one time inclined to 

 think that these remains represented a number of genera and species. 

 A more recent study, however, based upon an examination of the 

 recent Peccaries, which the lack of material had previously rendered 

 impossible, convinced hira that the remains hitherto described 

 might all be referred to Dicotyles compressus. He adds, however, 

 that if the anatomical characteristics offered be considered sub- 

 generic, then the name Platygomis eo7npresst<.?, previously employed, 

 would include all the genera and species. 



In the year I860 there was published in the Smithsonian Con- 

 tributions to Knowledge one of the most important of Dr. Leidy's 

 paleontological works: the memoir entitled "Cretaceous Reptiles of 

 the United States." Most of the fossil remains constituting the 

 subject of this memoir were obtained from the Green Sand or Marl 

 of New Jersey, so extensively excavated for agricultural purposes. 

 They are preserved in the Museum of the Academy. Among them 

 are those of the extinct crocodile Thoracosauriis, closely allied 

 anatomically to the Gavial of the Ganges, the skull of which measures 




366 PROCEEDIN(;s OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



nearly four feet iu length and two feet in breadth. Other interesting 

 crocodile-like reptiles described as of tlie same general character iu 

 the work were Bottosanrus and Hyposaiirus. The huge Cimoliasaurus 

 and Discosaurus measuring sixty feet in length appear to have repre- 

 sented in our waters the Pleslosaurus of the English cretaceous seas. 



The teeth and some of the bones of the extremities of Mosasaiirus, 

 an extinct saurian resembling in some respects existing reptiles like 

 tbe Monitor and Iguana, were also described. In the case of the 

 extremities this was especially important, as few bones that could 

 be identified as such had been discovered among the remains of 

 Mosasaurus hitherto described. Indeed Cuvier was so much impressed 

 with the absence of any remains of extremities in the case of the 

 celebrated Msestricht specimen now preserved in the Jardin des 

 Plantes that at first he was led to doubt whether the animal 

 possessed any limbs. Dr. Leidy also called attention to the remark- 

 able character of the vertebral colunm of Mosasaurus, the co-ossifica- 

 tion in the hinder part of the tail and of the chevron bones with the 

 bodies of the vertebrae, a condition previously known only in fishes. 



One of the most remarkable reptiles described by Dr. Leidy was 

 Hadrosaurus Foulkii, the restoration of which forms a conspicuous 

 object in the Museum of the Academy. It resembles somewhat the 

 Iguana and Cyclura among existing lizards. This gigantic reptile, 

 the representative during the cretaceous period of North America of 

 the Iguanodon of the Wealden of England, was twenty-eight feet 

 long and, judging from the development of the pelvis and the great 

 difference in the size of the hind as compared with the fore limbs, it 

 probably stood and walked like a bird or a kangaroo, and was 

 provided with a powerful tail like the last named animal. While 

 the femur measured nearly four feet in length and the tibia 

 three feet, the humerus and ulna Avere only about half those dimen- 

 sions respectively. Hadrosanrus like Iguanodon was a vegetable 

 feeder. Its teeth resembled those of the latter but were disposed in 

 rows like a tesselated pavement. One of the most interesting results 

 of the study of the remains of Hadrosaurus was the identification 

 of the pubic bone with that described as the clavicle in Iguanodon. 

 The determination of the proper relations of this bone was a most 

 important one, leading as it did to the subsequent generalization 

 that the Dinosauria are the ancestors of the birds, the gap between 

 the two groups being filled up by the Struthious birds, such as the 

 ostrich and certain reptile-like birds and bird-like reptiles since 




1891.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 867 



discovered. Among the other reptilian remains discovered in the 

 marl of Ncav Jersey many were recognized as being those of turtles 

 s.uch as Chelone, Emys and Trionyx. Bothremys Cookii found near 

 Barnsboro, of especial interest as being the first Chelonian skull 

 discovered in the Green sand formation in the United States, was 

 regarded as closely allied to the great turtle of the Amazon, Podoe- 

 nemys expansa. 



During the time intervening between the years 1853 and 1866, 

 the able and indefatigable explorer, Dr. F. V. Harden, made 

 several visits to Nebraska and Dakota, returning each time with 

 large collections of the remains of the extinct animals of that region, 

 those from the vicinity of the Niobrara river being the first obtained. 

 All these fossils were submitted to Dr. Leidy for determination 

 and, together with tho.se previously described in the " Fauna of Ne- 

 braska, " etc., already referred to, constituted the subject of his great 

 work, " The Extinct Mammalian Fauna of Dakota and Nebraska," 

 which appeared as Volume Y] I of the Journal of the Academy, in 

 1869. In this remarkable work over seventy genera with numerous 

 species of extinct mammalia, many of them new to science, were first 

 described. The Carnivora, Pachydermata, Ruminantia, Proboscidea, 

 Rodentia and Insectivora were especially well represented. Remains 

 of the Equine family were most conspicuous. 



The vast number of bones from the pliocene deposits of Dakota 

 recognized by Dr. Leidy as being the remains of horses, led him to 

 infer that the North American Continent, during that period, was 

 emphatically the country of the horse, the different forms being 

 then better represented than in the recent fauna of any part of the 

 world. He was specially interested in the relations of the extinct 

 horses to each other and to those of the present day. 



His first communication on this subject was made to the 

 Academy in 1847 ; his last as recently as May, 1890. He made 

 a collection of the skulls, jaws, teeth, bones of the limbs, etc., of the 

 diflferent breeds and ages of recent horses with the view of comparing 

 them with the corresponding parts of the extinct forms. In speaking 

 of the great difficulties experienced when endeavoring to positively 

 identify certain bones as those of one so-called species of horse 

 as distinguished from another, he observes that if the " bones and 

 teeth of the domestic horse, the mule, the ass, the djiggetai, the 

 hemione, the quagga, the daww, and the zebra, were commingled, 

 they might readily be considered as belonging to varieties of a single 




31)8 PROCEKDIKGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



species, " and that the " bones and teeth of the three last named 

 species are so nearly alike that, had they Ijeen found in a fossil 

 state in Southern Africa instead of the living animals, they would 

 have been unhesitatingly considered as pretaining to a single 

 species." To this circumstance, so thoroughly appreciated by the 

 author, was due his caution in identifying the remains submitted to 

 him as belonging to any particular species of the horse. Indeed 

 the difficulties are so great in determining to what particular species 

 or genus the remains of extinct horses are to be assigned, that it is 

 impossible to say whether or not the several forms first described 

 by Dr. Leidy, are the same as those subsequently described by 

 others. 



Without committing himself to any positive theory of the origin 

 of the horse, it may be said that Dr. Leidy, provisionally at least, 

 regarded the genus Equus of the Pliocene i:)eriod as the descendant of 

 the Merychippiis, or a similar form, which in turn had descended from 

 Protohippus and Hipparion, the latter having replaced the Fara- 

 hippus of the Miocene, which had been preceded by the AncJdppiis 

 and Anchitheriiim or similar forms of that same period. As to the 

 origin of ^l7K'A/i/ierm??i, it will be remembered, as already mentioned, 

 that in his description of that genus he called attention to 

 the fact that this curious animal resembled Palaotherinm in the 

 form of its teeth, and the horse in the character of its skeleton. 



During the five years that elapsed after the publication of the im- 

 portant work on the extinct mammalia of Nebraska and Dakota just 

 referred to, the remains of a great number of extinct vertebrates had 

 been discovered in the neighborhood of Fort Bridger, Wyoming. 

 These fossils, obtained principally by Drs. Carter and Corson, in- 

 cluded the remains of fishes and reptiles as well as those of mammals 

 and were, together with others from the Green River and Sweetwater 

 River deposits of Wyoming and the John Day river of Oregon, 

 submitted to Dr. Leidy for determination. The result of his study 

 was given in his " Contributions to the Extinct Vertebrate Fauna of 

 the Western Territories"' published in 1873 by the United States 

 Geological Survey. Among these remains he recognized not only 

 those of extinct animals that he had previously descriljed either in 

 the general works we have referred to or in communications 

 made to the Academy, but also those of many new and interesting 

 forms previously unknown to science. Of these Uintatherium was 

 one of the most extraordinary. Its name was derived from that of 




18!)1.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADKLl'iriA. 309 



the Uinta iiKnintaiii.*, in the- neighborhood of which jjortions of the 

 skull, jaw and limb bones were found. Its characters were so 

 peculiar and unlike those of any other known animal as to render 

 its ordinal affinities obscure. That great difficult}' should have been 

 experienced in determining the nature of Uintatherium will not 

 excite surprise when it is remembered that its canine teeth resemble 

 those of the sabre-toothed tiger, its molar teeth those of the tapir, its 

 limbs and feet those of the elephant, while, as subsequently shown, it 

 appears to have been provided with two pairs of horns. This 

 unusual combination of characters is an illustration of how readily 

 a paleontologist may be deceived as to the nature of an extinct 

 animal when fragmentary remains only are in his possession. There 

 can be no doubt that had the skull, jaws, teeth and limbs been found 

 by different paleontologists, as many separate genera would have 

 been described and named. As a matter of fact, when the tusk, the 

 first part of Uintatherium discovered, was found by Dr. Corson and 

 submitted to Dr. Leidy's inspection, the latter regarded it, as he him- 

 self tells us, as the canine tooth of some large carnivorous animal 

 allied to the sabre-toothed tiger of Brazil, for which he proposed the 

 name Uiiitamastix atrox. The association in the same individual of 

 a tusk-like tooth with two pairs of horns, tapiroid teeth and ele- 

 phantine limbs would have been deemed impossible by the best 

 comparative osteologist of the day and as violating in every particular 

 the principle of correlation of animal structures as maintained by 

 Cuviei". On the other hand, it is such animals as Uintatherium and 

 other similar extinct highly generalized mammalian types that the 

 theory of evolution would lead us to suppose had preceded in time 

 their more specialized descendants of the present day. 



This great work was the last of Dr. Leidy's elaborate and im- 

 portant treatises on the })aleontology of the Western States and 

 Territories and was i-egarded by the author, at that time, as his last 

 paleontological work of any kind. 



A few years later, however, a collection of fossils from the Phos- 

 phate Beds of South Carolina having been placed at the disposal 

 of the author of this memoir, he induced Dr. Leidy to examine the 

 collection with the view of ascertaining if there were among the re- 

 mains any extinct animals new to science, or of especial interest. 



The result of his study of this collection, as well as that 

 of some additional specimens obtained from the same locality and 

 elsewhere, were embodied in his "Description of Vertebrate Re- 




370 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



mains chiefly from the Phosphate Beds of South Carolina, " pub- 

 lished in the Journal of the Academy for 1887. Among the remains 

 of extinct animals described in this admirable memoir may be men- 

 tioned the teeth of the gigantic sharks, rays and teliosts, the verte- 

 bme, ear-bones and teeth of whales, the bones of the manatee and 

 walrus, the teeth and bones of the elephant. Megatherium, horse, 

 tapir, bison, deer, beaver and capybara, many of which Avere repre- 

 sentative of entirely new genera and species. 



During the interval elapsing between the publication of the work 

 just referred to, and his death. Dr. Leidy, from time to time as 

 occasion offered, made communications to the Academy on the 

 remains of extinct animals submitted to him for determination. All 

 of these observations are of interest and importance and are marked 

 by the same exactness and accuracy of description, so characteristic 

 of all the work of the great paleontologist. 



It will be observed from this necessarily brief resume of Dr. Leidy 's 

 work that he made contributions to the sciences of mineralogy, 

 botany, zoology ; general, comparative and human anatomy, and 

 paleontology. Of his numerous scientific communications some were 

 very brief, mere notices; others exhaustive and elaborate treatises. 

 His work, however, whether lengthy or brief was always most exact 

 and accurate. Later investigators in the same fields of research 

 have been able to point out but few errors of interpretation, still 

 fewer of fact. His works are essentially records of facts, often 

 new and of the greatest scientific importance, containing but 

 rarely any generalizations or deductions based upon the same. 

 Possibly no country ever produced a student whose knowledge of 

 nature was at once so accurate and so comprehensive. He was an 

 excellent mineralogist and botanist without claiming to be either, 

 among the highest living authorities on comparative anatomy and 

 zoology, one of the most distinguished helminthologists living, and 

 the equal of any paleontologist at home or abroad. 



The following catalogue of volumes, papers and communications 

 published by Dr. Joseph Leidy illustrates the extent, variety and 

 value of his contributions to science : — 

 Bibliography. 



1. On the existence of the sack of the dart and of the dart in several species of 

 North American pneumonobranchiate Mollusks. Boston, Proc. Nat. Hist. Soc. 

 II, 1845, p. 59-60. 




1891.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 371 



2. Notes taken on a visit td White Pond, in Warren Co., New Jersey. Proc. 

 Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. ]845, pp. 279-281. 



3. Anatomical description of the animal of Littorina angulifera Lam. (1845.) 

 Bostoji, Jour. Nat. Hist. V, 1845-47, pp. 344-347. 



4. On several important points in the Anatomy of the human larvn.v. Amer. 

 Jour. Med. Sci. XII, 1846, pp. 141-143, 



5. Remarks upon the Anatomy of the abdominal viscera of the Sloth, Bradypus 

 tridactylis Linn. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. IH, 1846, pp. 287-288. 



6. On an Enlozoon from the thigh of a hog. Trichina spiralis? Proc. Acad. 

 Nat. Sci. Phila. 1846, pp. 107-108. 



7. Fecundity of Cryptogamia. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1846, p. 195. 



8. On tiie Anatomy of Spectrum femoratum Say. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 

 Ill, 1846-47, pp. 80-84. 



9. Description of a new genus and species of Entozoa. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. 

 Phila. Ill, 1846-47, pp. 100-101. Ann. Nat. Hist. XIX, 1847, pp. 209-210. 



10. On the mechanism which closes the membranous wings of the genus Locusta. 

 Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. HI, 1846-47, pp. 104-105. Ann. Nat Hist. XIX, 

 1847, pp. 214-215. 



11. On the situation of the olfactory sense in the terrestrial tribe of the Gastero- 

 podous Molhisca. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. HI, 1846-47, pp. 136-137. Ann. 

 Nat. Hist. XX, 1847, pp. 210-211. Silliman's Journ. Ill, 1847, pp. 434-435. 



12. Discovery of crystals in the cellular structure of Parmelia. Proc. Acad. 

 Nat. Sci. Phila. 1847, p. 210. 



13. On the Cranium of a New Hollander. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1847, 

 p. 217. 



14. On an Entozoon from the Pericardium of Helix alternata, Proc. Acad. 

 Nat. Sci. Phila. 1847, pp. 22(t-221. 



15. Request (o change the name of an Entozoon from Cryptobia to Cryptoicus. 

 Proc. Acad Nat. Sci. Phila. 1847, p. 239. 



16. Remarks on Squalina Dumerili. Proc. .\cad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1847, 

 p. 247. 



17. On the fossil Horse of America. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. Ill, 

 1846-47, pp. 262-266. 



18. Description and Anatomy of a new and curious sub-genus of Planaria. 

 Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. Ill, 1846-47. Ann. Nat. Hist. I, 1848. 



19. Description of two new species of Planaria. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 

 Ill, 1846-47, pp. 251-252. Ann. Nat. Hist. I, 1848, pp. 78-79. 



20. Additional observations on the Fossil Horse of America. Proc. Acad. Nat. 

 Sci. Phila. 1847, pp. 262-266. 



21. On a new genus and species of fossil Ruminantia, Poebrotherium Wilsoni. 

 Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. Ill, 1846-47, pp. 322-326. Ann. Nat. Hist. 1, 1848, 

 pp. 389-392. Silliman's Journ. V, 1848, pp. 276-279. 



22. History and anatomy of the hemipterous genus Belostoma. Journ. Acad. 

 Nat. Sci. Phila. I, 1847-50, pp. 57-67. 



23. Miscellanea Zoologica. 1. Description of a new genus and species of 

 Entozoa, Cryptobia helicis. 2. On the mechanism which closes the membranous 

 wings of the genus Locusta. 8. On the situation of the olfactory sense in the 

 terrestrial tribe of the Gasteropodous Moilusca. Journ. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. I, 

 1847-50, pp. 67-70. 



24. Descriptions of two species of Distoma with the partial history of one of 

 them. Journ. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. I, 1847-50, pp. 301-310. 



25. Researches into the comparative structure of the Liver. Am. Jour. Med. 

 Sci. Phila. 1848. 



26. On the eye of the Balanus. Silliman's Journ. VI, 1848, p. 130. 



27. On the existence of the eye in the perfect Cirrhipoda. Proc. Acad. Nat. 

 Sci. Phila. 1848, pp. 1-2. 



28. On some bodies in the Boa-constrictor resembling the Pacinian corpuscles. 

 Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. IV, 1848-49, pp. 27-28. MuUer's Archiv. 1848, pp. 

 527-530. 




372 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



29. On a new fossil genus and species of luminantoid Pachydermata, Merycoi- 

 dodon Culbertsonii. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. IV, 1848-49, pp. 47-50. 



31). Remarks on the hair of a Hottentot boy brought to Phila. by Capt. Chase. 

 Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1848, p. 7. 



31. Observations on the development of bone, the structure of articular cartilage, 

 and on the relation of the areolar tissue with muscle and tendon. Proc Acad. 

 Nat. Sci. Phila. IV, 1848-49. pp. 116-117. 



o2. Observations on the existence of the intermaxillary bone in the embryo of 

 the human subject. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. IV, 1848-49, pp. 145-147. 



33. Tapirus Americanus fossilis. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila, IV, 1848-49, 

 pp. 1S0-I83. 



34. On the existence of Entophyta in healthy animals, as a natural condition. 

 Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. IV, 1848-49, pp. 225-233. Ann. Nat. Hist. V, 

 1850, pp. 71-76. 



35. On the intimate structure and history of the articular cartilages. Am. Jour. 

 Med. Sci. Phila. 1849. 



36. On some new genera and species of Entozoa. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 

 IV, 1818-49, pp. 229-233. Ann. Nat. Hist. V, 1850, pp. 314-317. 



37. Observations on the characters and intimate structure of the odoriferous 

 glands of the Invertebrata. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. IV, 1848-49, pp. 234- 

 236. 



38. Descriptions of new genera and species of Entophyta. Proc. Acad. Nat. 

 Sci. Phila. IV, 1848-49, pp. 249-250. 



39. On the intimate structure and history of the articular cartilages. Amer. 

 Tourn. Med. Sci. XVII, 1849, pp. 277-294. Ann. Nat. Hist. IV, 1849, pp. 156- 

 158. 



4 0. On the development of the Purkinjean corpuscle in bone. Ann. Nat. Hist. 

 IX, 1849, pp. 74-75. 



41. On the arrangement of the areolar sheith of muscular fascicule, and its rela- 

 tion to the tendon. Ann. Nat. Hist. IV, 1849, pp. 158-159. 



42. Internal anatomy of Corydalus cornutus, in its three stages of existence. 

 1848. Boston, Mem. Amer. Acad. IV, 1849, pp. 162-168. 



43. Descriptions (accompanied by drawings) of new genera and species Ento- 

 phyta. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Thila. 1849, pp. 249-250. 



44. Notice of certain peculiar bodies observed in the human subject. Amer. 

 Journ. Med. Sci. XX, 1850, pp. 89-91. 



45. Notice on the formation of some crystalline bodies in collodion. American 

 Journ. Phaim. XVI. 1850, pp. 24-26. 



46. On the characters and intimate structure of the odoriferous glands of the In- 

 vertei^r.Tla. Ann. Nat. Hist. V, 185(1, pp. 154r-1.56. 



47. Nvctotherus, a new genus of Polygastrica allied to Plesconia. Ann. Nat. 

 Hist. V,']85(), pp 158-159. 



48. On crystalline bodies in tissues of plants. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 

 1851), pp. 32-33. 



^9. On Rhinoceros occidentalis. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1850, p. 119. 



50. Descriptions of new Entophyta growing within animals. Proc. Acad. Nat. 

 Sci. Phila. V, 1850-51, pp. 35-36. Ann. Nat. Hist. VII, 1851, pp. 236-237. 



51. Observations on two new genera of mammalian fossils, Eucrotaphus Jack- 

 soni and Archreotherium Mortoni. Proc. Acad. Nat. .Sci. Phila. V, 1850-51, pp. 

 90-94. 



52. Contributions to Helminthology. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. V, 1850- 

 51, pp. 96-98. ( Six separate papers. ) 



53. Notes on the development of the Gordius aquaticus. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. 

 Phila. V, 1850-51, pp. 98-100. 



54. Two new species of infusorial Entozoa. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. V, 

 1850-51, p. 100. 



55. Description of some Nematoid Entozoa infesting Insects. Proc. Acad. Nat. 

 Sci. Phila. V, 1850-51, pp. 100-102. 




1891.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 373 



56. Descriptions of three FilariK. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. V, 18o0-51, 

 pp. 117-119. 



57. On the nettlinp; organs of the Hydra. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila, V, 

 1850-51, pp. 119-121. 



58. On some fossil Mammalian remain?. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. V, 

 1850-51, pp. 121-lL'2. 



59. Descriptions of new genera of Vermes. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila, V, 

 1850-51, pp. 124-126. 



60. Descriptions of new species of Entozoa. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. V. 

 1850-51, pp. 155-156. 



61 On a Fossil Tortoise Stylemjs Nebrascensis. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 

 V, 1850-51, pp. 172-173. 



62. Contributions to Helminthology. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. V, 1850-51, 

 pp. 205-209, 224-227, 239-244, 284-290, 349-351. 



63. On fossil remains of Ruminant ungulates from Nebraska. Proc. Acad. 

 Nat. Sci. Phila. V, 1850-51, pp. 237-239. 



64. On the genus Plumatella Bosc. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. V, 1850-51, 

 pp. 261-263. 



65. On Cristatella Cuv. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. V, 1850-51, pp. 265- 

 266. 



66. Corrections and additions to former papers on Helminthology. Proc. Acad. 

 Nat. Sci. Phila. V, 1850-51, pp. 284-290. 



67. On the fossil remains of Balaena palaeallantica and B. prisca, from the 

 Miocene formation of Virginia. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. V, 1850-51. pp. 

 308-309. 



68. On some American fresh water Polyzoa. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 

 V, 1850-51, pp. 320-322. 



69. On some fossil Reptilian and Mammalian remains. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. 

 Phila. V, 1850-51, pp. 325-330. 



70. Description of some American Anellida abranchia. Journ. Acad. Nat. Sci. 

 Phila. II, 1850-54, pp. 43-50. 



71. Description of a new species of Crocodile from the Miocene of Virginia. 

 Journ. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. II, 1850-54, pp. 135-138. 



72. On the osteology of the head of Hippopotamus, and a description of the 

 o.steological characters of a new genus of Hippopotamida;. Journ. Acad. Nat. 

 Sci. Phila. II, 1850-54, pp. 207-224. 



73- On Balhygnathus borealis, an extinct Saurian of the new Red Sandstone 

 of Prince Edward Island. Journ. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 11, ls50-54, pp. 327- 

 330. 



74. Special Anatomy of the Gasteropoda of the United States. Terrest. Moll. 

 of U. S. (Binney) 1, 1851, pp. 198-260, pis. I-XVI. 



75. Zoological Researches. Silbman's Journ. XI, 1851, pp."274-275. 



76. On some fragments of Paljeotherium Proulii. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 

 1851, pp. 170-171. 



77. On the transplantation of Animal Tissues. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 

 1851, p. 201. 



78. On Fungous growth in the Mole-cricket, two papers. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. 

 Phila. 1851, pp. 204, 210-211. 



79. On the mtroduction of cancerous matter into the integument of the frog. 

 Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1851, p. 212. 



80. On fungous disease in Cicada septcmdecim. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 

 1851, p. 235. 



81. On the Gordiace^e. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1851, pp. 262-263, 275. 



82. Report upon some fossil Mammalia and Chelonia from Nebraska. Smith- 

 sonian Reports, 1852, pp. 63-65. 



83. Remarks on a fossil vertebra from Ouachita, La. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. 

 Phila. 1852, p. 52. 



84. On the osteology of Hippopotamus. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1852, 

 pp. 52-,53. 




374 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



85. On fossil Tortoises from Nebraska. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1852, p. 

 59. 



86. On red snow from the Arctic regions. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1852, 

 p. 59. 



87. On two crania of extinct species of Ox. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 

 1852, p. 71. 



88. On the Honey Ant of Mexico. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1852, p. 72. 



89. Reference to a fossil tooth of a Tapir. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1852, 

 p. 106. 



90. Remarks on the fos^I Ox. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1852, p. 117. 



91. Remarks on some fossil teeih of a Rhinoceros from Nebraska. Proc. Acad. 

 Nat. Sci. Phila. 1852, p. 2. 



92. On a Fossil Turtle from Nebraska. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1852, p. 

 34. 



93. On a new species of fossil Deiphinus and a new Saurian Thoracosaurus 

 grandis. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. \T, 1852-53, p. 35. 



94. Ursus amplidens, new fossil species. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. VI, 

 1852-53, p. 3i)3. 



95. On .some fossil Cetacean remains. PrQC. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. VI, 1852- 

 53, pp. 377-378. 



96. Description of the remains of extinct Mammalia and Chelonia from Nebraska 

 Territory, collected during the Geological Survey under the direction of Dr. David 

 Dale Owen. Rept. of Geo!. Surv. of Wisconsin, Iowa and Minnesota, D. D. Owen, 



1852, pp. 540-572. 



97. On the organization of the genus Gregarina Dufour, 1851. Amer. Phil. 

 Soc. Trans. X, 1853, pp. 233-240. 



98. Some observations on Nematoidea imperfecta, and descriptions of three 

 parasitic Infusoria. Amer. Phil. Soc. Trans. X, 1853, pp. 241-244. 



99. Description of an extinct species of American Lion, Felis atrox, 1852. 

 Amer. Phil. Soc. Trans. X, 1853, pp. 319-322. 



100. A memoir on the extinct Dicotylinte of America, 1852. Amer. Phil. Soc. 

 Trans. X, 1853, pp. 323-344. 



101. A Flora and Fauna within Living Animals, 1851. Smithson. Contrib. V, 

 1853. 



102. Memoir on the extinct species of American Ox, 1852. Smithson. Contrib. 

 V, 1853. 



103. Remarks on various fossil teeth. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1853, p. 241. 



104. On some fossil fragments from Natchez Miss. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 



1853, p. 303. 



105. Remarks on a collection of Fossil Mammalia and Chelonia from the 

 Mauvaises Terres of Nebraska. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1853, pp. 392-394. 



106. Character explained of nodular bodies found in the tails and fins of fishes 

 from Cold Pond, N. H. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1853, p. 433. 



107. Lecture introductory to the course of Anatomy delivered in the University of 

 Pennsylvania. 8vo T. Phila. 1853, pp. 1-22. 



108. The ancient Fauna of Nebraska; or a description of remains of extinct 

 Mammalia and Chelonia, from the Mauvaises Terres of Nebraska, 1852. Smith- 

 sonian Contrib. VI, 1S54, pp. 392-394. 



109. On Brimosaufus grandis, n. g. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. VII, 1854, p. 

 72. 



no. On Bison latifrons. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. VII, 1854, p. 89. 



111. On Dinictis filina. Proc. Acad. Nat. .Sci. Phila. 1854, p. 127. 



112. <-)n Prof. Lindley's review of " A fauna and flora within living animals." 

 Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1854, pp. 128-129. 



113. On Hydrachna. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1854, p. 202. 



114. Hippodon and Merycodus, new fossil genera indicated. Proc. Acad. 

 Nat. Sci. Piiila. VII, 1854-55, p. 90. 




1891.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 375 



115. Synopsis of extinct Mammalia, the remains of which have heen discoverecl 

 in the eocene formations of Nebraska. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. VII, 1854- 

 55, pp. 156-158. 



116. Description of a fossil apparently indicating an extinct species of the 

 Camel tribe. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. VII, i8.54-o5, pp. 172-178. 



117. On Urnatella gracilis and a new species of Plumatella. Proc. Acad Nat. 

 Sci. Phila. VII, 1854-55, pp. 191-192. 



118. Notice of some fossil bones discovered by Mr. Francis A. Lincke, in the 

 banks of the Ohio River, Indiana. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. VII, 1854-55, 

 pp. 199-liOl. 



119. Remarks on the question of the identity of Bootherium cavifrons with 

 Oribos moschatus or O. maximus. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. VII, 1854-55, 

 pp. 209-1:10. 



120. Indications of twelve species of Fossil Fishes from New Jersey and S. 

 Carolina. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. VII, 1854-55, pp. 395-397. 



121. Indications of five species, with two new genera, of extinct Fishes. Proc. 

 Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila, VII, 1854-55, p. 414. 



123. Notices of some Tape Worms. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. VII, 854-55, 

 pp. 443-444. 



123. A memoir on the extinct Sloth Tribe of North America, 1853. Smilhson. 

 Contrib. VII, 1855. 



124. On a so-called fossil man. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Pliila. 1855, p. 340. 



125. Contributions toward a knowledge of the Marine Invertebrate Fauna of 

 the coasts of Rhode Island and New Jersey. Journ. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. Ill, 

 1855-58, pp. 135-152. 



126. Descriptions of some remains of Fishes from the Carboniferous and De- 

 vonian Formations of the United States. Journ. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. Ill, 

 1855-58, pp. 159-165. 



127. De-.criptions of some remains of extinct Mammalia. Journ. Acad. Nat. Sci. 

 Phila. Ill, 1855-58, pp. 166-171. 



128. Descriptions of two Ichthyodorulites. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Piiila. VIII, 

 18-56, pp. 11-12. Silliman's Journ. XXI. 1856, pp. 421-422. 



129. A Svnopsis of Entozoa and some of the Ecio-congeners. Proc. Acad. Nat. 

 Sci. Phila. VIII, 1856, pp. 42-58. 



130. Notices of some remains of extinct Mammalia, discovered by Dr. F. V. 

 Hayden in the Bad Lands of Nebraska. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci Phila. VIII, 1856, 

 pp. 59-60. 



131. Notices of remains of extinct Reptiles and Fishes, discovered by Dr. F. V. 

 Hayden in the Bad Lands of the ]udith River, Nebraska Territory. Proc. Acad. 

 Nat. Sci. I'hila. VIII, 1856, pp. 72-76. Silliman's lourn. XXI, 18-56, pp. 422- 

 423. 



132. Notices of remains of extinct Mammalia, discovered by Dr. F. V. Hayden, 

 in Nebraska Territory. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila VIII, 1856, pp. 88-90. 



133. Notices of the remains of a species of Seal, from the post-pliocene deposit 

 of the Ottawa River. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. VIII, 1856, pp. 90-91. 



134. Notices of several genera of extinct Mammalia, previously less perfectly 

 characterized. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. VIII, 1856, pp. 91-92. 



133. Notices of some remains of extinct Vertebrated Animals. Proc. Acad. 

 Nat. Sci. Phila. VIII, 1856, pp. 162-165. 



136. Notices of some remains of extinct Vertebrated Animals of New Jersey, 

 collected by Prof Cook. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. VIII, 1856, pp. 220-221. 



137. Notices of remains of extinct Vertebrated Animals, discovered by Professor 

 E. Emmons. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. VIII, 18-56, pp. 255-256. Silliman's 

 Journ XXIII, 1857, pp. 271-272. 



138. Notices of some remains of Fishes, discovered by Dr. John E. Evans. 

 Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. VIII, 1856, pp. 256-257. 



139. Notices of remains of two species of Seals. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 

 VIII, 18-56, p. 265. 




376 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



140. Remarks on certain extinct species of Fishes. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 



VIII. 1856, pp. 3(11-3(12. 



141. Notices of remains of extinct Turtles of New Jersey, collected by Prof. 

 Cook. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. VIII, 1856, pp 303-304. 



142. Notices of extinct Vertebrata, discovered by Dr. F. V. Hayden, duringthe 

 expedition to the Sioux country. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. VIII, 18-56, pp. 

 311-312. 



143. List of extinct Vertebrata, the remains of which have been discovered in 

 the region of the Missouri river; with remarks on their geological age. Proc. 

 Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. IX, 1S57, pp. 89-91. 



144. Notices of some remains of extinct Fishes. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 



IX, 1857, pp. 167-168. 



145. Remirk on a large species of Gordius and larva of CEstrus. Proc. Acad. 

 Nat. Sci. Phila. IX, 1857, p. 204. 



146. On a boring Sponge. Silliman's Journ. XXIII, 1857, pp. 281-282. 



147. Observations on Entozoa found in the Naiades. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. 

 Phila. 1857, p. 18. 



148. On Coprolites and Shales with Posidonire. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 



1857. p. 149. 



149. On New Red Sandstone fnssils from the Gwynnedd Tunnel, North Penna. 

 R. Road. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1857, p. 150. 



150. Rectificationofthe references of the extinct Mammalian genera of Nebraska. 

 Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1857, pp. 175-176. 



151. On the dentition of the Mosasaurus. Pioc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1857, 

 p. 176. 



152. On Oecanthus. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1857, p. 177. 



J53. On a curious animalcule on stones and dead plants in the Schuylkill and 

 Delaware Rivers. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1857, p. 204. 



154. Observations on the introduction of the Camel into North America. Proc. 

 Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1857, p. 210. 



155. Notices of remains of extinct Vertebrata, from the Valley of the Niobrara 

 River, collected during the Exploring expedition of 1857, in Nebraska, by Dr. F. 

 V. Hayden. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. X, 1858, pp. 20-29. 



156. Contributions to Helminthology. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. X, 1858, 

 pp. 110-112. 



157. On Urnatella gracilis. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1858, p. 1. 



158. Remarks on Fossil Mammalia from Nebraska. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 



1858, p. 7. 



1.59. Notice of Remains of extinct vertebrata from the valley of the Niobrara 

 River. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1858, p. 11. 



160. Remarks on a cast of a Mastodon tooth. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 

 1858, p. 12. 



161. Remarks on fossil remains from Nebraska. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 

 1858, pp. 89-90. 



162. Remarks on Chrysalides of the canker worm. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 

 18-58, p. 137. 



163. Remarks on Rhyncodemus sylvaticus. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1858, 

 pp. 171-172. 



104. Remarks on a specimen of Cryolite. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1858, 

 p. 177. 



165. Remarks on Antler of Reindeer. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1858, p. 

 179. 



166. Remarks on Polyzoa. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1858, pp. 188-190. 



167. Remarks on Hadrosaurus Foulkii. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1858. 

 pp. 215-218. 



168. Valedictory address to the class of Medical Graduates at the University of 

 Pennsylvania. Mnrch 27, 1858, pp. 1-32. 



169. Lecture introductory to the course on Anatomy in the Univer.--ity of Pennsyl- 

 vania for the sesMon of 1858-59, 8voT. Phila. 1859, pp. 1-24. 




1891.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. .377 



170. Observations on three kinds of dipterous larva; from man. ProC. Acad. 

 Nat. Sci. Pliila. XI, 1859, pp. 7-8. 



171. On Manayunkia speciosa. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 18.59, p. 2. 



172. On Hystracantlius arcuatus and Cladodus occidentalis. Proc. Acad. Nat 

 Sci. Phila. 1859, p. 3. 



173. Remarks on tooth of Mastodon and bones of Mosasaurus. Proc. Acad 

 Nat. Sci, Phila. 1859, pp. 91-92. 



174. llemarks on teetli of Clepsysaurus, Eurydorus serridens and Compsosaurus 

 from Phoenixville tunnel, Chester Co. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1859, p. 110. 



175. Remarks on fossils from Bethany, Va., and also from the Green Sand, 

 Monmouth Co., N. J. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1859, p. 110. 



170. Remarks on Ossite from Sombrero, W. I. on skull of Ursus Americanus 

 from the drift, Claiborne, Mi.ss. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1859, p. 111. 



177. Remarks on fragment of jaw of Mosasaurus. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila 

 1859, p. 150. 



178. Oil specimens of Palteotrochus from sub-silurian strata. Proc. Acad. Nat. 

 Sci. Phila. 1859, p. 150. 



179. Remarks on Dromatherium sylvestre and other fossils from Chatham Co., 

 N. C. Proc Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 18-59, p. 162. 



180. Remarks on antler of the Reindeer found at Sing-.Sing, and remarks on 

 JVeija Americana from Newport. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1859, p. 194. 



181. On the seat of the vesicating principle of Lytta vittata. Proc. Acad. Nat. 

 Sci. Phila. 1859. p. 256. 



182. Introductory lecture to the course of Anatomy delivered in the University of 

 Pennsylvania, Oct. 11, 1859. 8vo T. Phila. 18-59, pp. 1-23. 



183. Notices of remains of the Walrus, discovered on the coast of the United 

 States, J 856. Amer. Phil. Soc. Trans. XI, I860, pp. 83-87. 



184. Descriptions of the remains of fishes from tiie carboniferous limestone of 

 , Illinois and Missouri, 1856. Amer. Phil. Soc. Trans. XI, 1860, pp. 87-90. 



185. Remarks on Saurocephalus and its allies, 18-56. Amer. Phil. Soc. Trans. 

 XI, I860, pp. 91-95. 



186. Ob-iervations on the extinct Peccary of North America; being a sequel to 

 " A memoir on the extinct Dicotylinas of America," 1856. Amer. Phil. Soc. 

 Trans. XI, I860, pp. 97-1(15. 



187. Remarks on the structure of the feet of Megalonyx, 1856. Amer. Phil. 

 .Soc. Trans. XI, 1860. pp. 107-1(18. 



188. Extinct Verttbrata from the Judith River and great lignite formations of 

 Nebraska. Amer. Phil. Soc. Trans. XI, I860, pp. 139-154. 



189. Remarks on Albertite. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. I860, p. 54. 



190. Remarks on Hyalonema mirabilis. Proc. Acad. N^at. Sci. Phila. 1860 p 

 85. 



191. Remarks on experiments with Trichina spiralis. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci 

 Pliila. I860, p. 96. 



192. Notice of specimen of Hyla. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. I860, p. 305. 

 193- Remarks on fo.vsil teeth of Hippotherium from Washington County, Texas. 



Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. I860, p 416. 



194. Remarks on an extinct Peccary from Dr. D. D. Owen. Proc. Acad. Nat 

 Sci. Phila. I860, p. 416. 



195. An Elementary Tre.^tise on Human Anatomy, with three-hundred and 

 ninety-two illustrations, pp. I-XXIV,.17-6()3. Phila. 1861. Second Edition of 

 S.AME, with four-hundred and ninety five illustrations, pp. 1-950, Phila. 1889. 



196. On the discovery of lignite at the border of the new red sandstone on 

 Plymouth Creek. Proc. Acad. Nat Sci. Phila. 1861, p. 77. 



197- Remarks on certain minerals found in or near the city. Proc. Acad. Nat. 

 Sci. Phila. 1862. p. 507. 



198. Remarks on a female Phalangopsis. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1SG3 

 p. 212. 



25 




878 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



199. Cretaceous reptiles of the United States, 18(54. Smithsonian Reports, 

 18ti4, pp. 66-78. Smithsonian Contrib. XIV, 1865, {Art. 6). Geol. Mag. 

 V. 1868, pp. 4.3.-43.5. 



200. Fossil remains of Horses from California. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 

 1865, p. 94. 



201. Fossil remains of Rhinoceros from Texas and California. Proc. Acad. 

 Nat. Sci. Phila. 1865, pp. 176-177. 



202. O'oservations on the existence of a boring sponge during the cretaceous 

 period. Prjc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1865, p. 95. 



2l)3. Observations on a Kjokkenmodding at Cape Henlopen. Proc. Acad. 

 Nat. Sci. Phila. 1865, p. 95. 



204. Remarks on a foetal Acanthias Amcricanus. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 



1865, p. 175. 



20-5. Observations on Cryolite. Proc. Acad. Nat. Phila. 1865, p. 181. 



206. Remarks on specimens of Oolitic Phosphates of Lime and Alumina. Proc. 

 Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1865, p. 181. 



207. -On bones and stone implements from Guano deposits in the Island of Or- 

 chiUa. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1865, pp. 181-183. 



208. Observations on Indian relics. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1866, p. 1. 



209. Remarks on a phalanx of an extinct reptile. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 



1866, p. 9. 



210. Remarks on cancer of liver in Turkey and on Trichina. Proc. Acad. Nat. 

 Sci. Phila. 1866, p. 9. 



211. Remarks on human relics at Petite Anse, La. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 

 1866, p. 109. 



212. Remarks on fossils presented June 5th. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 



1866. p. 237. 



213. Observations on the Kitchen Middens of Cape Henlopen. Proc. Acad. 

 Nat. Sci. Phila. 1866, pp. 290-291. 



214. On Fossil bones from Mauvaises Terras, Nebraska. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. 

 Phda. 1866, p. 345. 



315. Remarks on the skull of Bison latifrons. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 



1867, p. 85. 



216. Exhibition of the skull of Geomvs bursarius. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 



1867, p. 97. 



217. Of an antique coffer hammer. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1867, p. 97. 



218. Of the skull of Castoroides Ohioensis. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1867, 

 p. 97. 



219. Of specimens of black horn-stone. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1867, p 

 125. 



220. Notices of some Vertebrate remains from Hardin Co., Texas. Proc. Acad 

 Nat. Sci. Phila. 1868, pp. 174-176. 



221. Indication of an Elotherium in California. Proc. .\cad. Nat. .Sci. Phila 



1868, p. 177. 



222. Notices of some Reptilian remains from Nevada. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci 

 Phila. 1868. pp. 177-178. 



223. Notices of some Vertebrate remains from the West Indian Islands. Proc 

 Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila 1868, pp. 178 180. 



224. Notices of some remains of horses. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1868, p 

 195. 



225. Notices of some extinct Cetaceans. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1868, pp 

 196-197. 



226. Remarks on a jaw fragment of Megalosaurus. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila 

 1868, pp. 197-199. 



227. Remarks on Conosaurus Gibbes. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1868, pp 

 200-202. 



228- Notices of American species of Ptychodus. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila, 

 1868, pp. 20.5-208. 




1891.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADEIl'IIIA. 379 



229. Notices of some American Leeches. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. ]868 

 pp. lil'9-230. 



230. Notices of some remains of extinct Pachyderms: Dicotyles nasutus, 

 Anchippus Texanus, Ancliippodus riparius, Lophiodon occidentalis. Proc. Acad. 

 Nat. Sci. Phila. 1SG8, pp. 230-283. 



231. Notices of some remains of extinct Insectivora from Dakota. Proc. Acad. 

 Nat. Sci. Phila. 1868, pp. 315-316. 



232. Description of Wolffia Columbiana. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1868, 

 pp. 6-7. 



233. Description of a new sponge : Pheronema Annai. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. 

 Phila., Biol, and Micr. Section, 1868, pp. 9-11. 



234. Remarks on Sombrero Guano. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1868, pp. 

 156-157. 



235. On the food of the shad. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1868, p. 228. 



236. On supposed Coprolites from the Huronian slates of Minnesota. Proc. 

 Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1868, pp. 302-303. 



237. On the iridescence of opals. Proc. Acad Nat. Sci. Phila. 1868, p. 303. 



238. On asterism in Mica. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1868. p. 313. 



239. On photograph of fossil bones from Topeka, Kansas. Proc. Acad. Nat. 

 Sci. Phila. 1868, p. 315. 



240. On the extinct Mammalia of Dakota and Nebraska, including an account 

 of some allied forms from other localities. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. Journ. VII, 

 1869, pp. 23-362. 



241. Synopsis of extinct Mammalia of North America. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 

 Journ. VII, 1869, pp. 363-472. 



242. Notices of some extinct Vertebrates from Wyoming and Dakota. Proc. 

 Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1869, pp. 63-67. 



243. Elasmosaurus platyurus Cope. Amer. Journ. Sci. XLIX, 1870, p. 392. 



244. Fossil Sivatlienum from Colorado Megacerops coloradensis. Proc. Acad. 

 Nat. Sci. Phila. 1870, pp. 1-13. 



245. Remarks on Puicilopleuron valens, Baptemys Wyomingensis, Emys Stev- 

 ensonianus and other fossils, from Middle Park, Colorado. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. 

 Phila. 1870, pp. 3-5. 



246. On Reptilian remains from the cretaceous formation near Fort Wallace, 

 Kansas. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1870. pp. 9-10. 



247. On a fossil mandible from near Fort Bridger, Wyoming. Proc. Acad. 

 Nat. Sti. Phila. 1870, pp. 10-11. 



248. Remarks on Xiphactinus audax and other Ichthyodorulites. Proc. Acad. 

 Nat. Sci. Phila. 1870, pp. 12-13. 



249. Remarks on Asteracanthus siderius. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1870, 

 p. 13. 



250. On Hadrosaurus and its allies. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1870, p. 

 67-68. 



251. Descriptions of Oncobatis pentagonus and Mylocyprinus robustus. Proc. 

 Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1870, pp. 69-71. 



252. On a new species of leech from near Philadelphia. Proc. Acad. Nat. 

 Sci. Phila. 1870, pp. 89-90 



253. On .Mastodon remains of the Warren Museum and the Cambridge Uni- 

 versity Museum. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1870, pp. 96-99. 



2='4. On Crocodilus EUiotti. Proc. Acad. Nat Sci. Phila. 1870, pp. 100, 122. 



255. On Urnatella, a genus of ciliated polyps of the family Pedict-llinidae. 

 Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1H70, pp. 100-102. Ann. Mag. Nat. Hist. VII, 1871 

 pp. 3(19-312. 



256. On some fossils from the Sweet Water River, Wyoming Territory. Proc. 

 Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1870, pp. 109-110. 



257. Description of a new species of Oreodon : O. superbus. Proc. Acad. Nat. 

 Sci. Phila. 1870, pp. 111-112. 




380 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY 0¥ [1891. 



258. On Ancliitherium Condoni and Cordylophora Americana. Proc. Acad. 

 Nat. Sci. Phila. 1870, pp. 112-113. 



2-59. Discnpiions of Palseosyops paludosus, Microsu^ cuspidatusand Notharctus 

 tenebrosiis. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Pliila. 1870, pp. 113-114. 



260. Descriptions of Graphiodon vinearius, a fossil reptile. Proc. Acad. Nat. 

 Sci. Phila. 1870, p. 122. 



261. Reptilian remains from Wyoming; Emys Teanesi, E. Haydeni, B?ena 

 arenosa. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1870, pp. 123-124. 



262. Fossil remains of a Lacertian, discovered near Granger: Saniwa ensidens. 

 Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1870, pp. 124-125. 



263 Fossil fragment of the'lower jaw of a small pachyderm; Lophiotherium 

 sylvaticum. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phda. 1870. p. 126. 



264. On the humerus ot a sloth resembling Mylodon robustus and on Dromo- 

 therium sylvesire. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1870, pp. 8-9. 



265. On specimens of vertebral bodies from the New Jersey green sand. Proc. 

 Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1870, p. 10. 



266. On Ichthyodorulites. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1870, pp. 12-13. 



267. On fossil remains from Illinois. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1870. p. 13. 



268. On Discosaurus and its allies. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1870, pp. 18- 

 22. 



269. On the internal organs of generation of a hog. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 

 187(1, p. 65. 



270. On fossil bones from Dakota and Nebraska. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 

 1870, p. 65-66. 



271. On fossil remains from Idaho, Utah and Oregon. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. 

 Phila. 1870, pp. 67-68. 



272. On Anguillulidae. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1870, pp. 68-69. 



273. On fossils from the vicinity of Burlington, Kansas, and from the Rocky 

 Mts. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1870, p. 69. 



274. On the relations of European and American fauna. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. 

 Phila. 1870, pp. 72-73. 



275. On a jaw fragment of Ovibos cavifrons. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1870, 

 p. 73. 



276. On Nothosaurops occiduus. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1870, p. 74. 



277. On leeches. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1870, pp. 89-90. 



278. On Mastodon remains. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1870, pp. 96-99. 



279. 0»- fossil remains in the Museum of Amherst College. Proc. Acad Nat. 

 Sci. Phila. 1870, p. 98. 



280. On fossils from Bridge Creek, Oregon. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 

 1870, pp. 111-113. 



281. On Cordylophora. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1870, p. 113. 



282. On fossils from Church Buttes, Wyoming Territory. Proc. Acad. Nat. 

 Sci. Phila. 1870, pp. 113-114. 



283. On fossils found under Table Mountain, Cal. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. 

 Phila. 1870, pp. 125-126. 



284. Exhibition of the lower jaw of an aged man, and a wood carving from St. 

 Paul de Loando. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1870, p. 133. 



285. On the reversed viscera of a human subject. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phiia. 



1870, p. 134. 



286. Remarks on some curious Sponges. Amer. Nat. IV. 1871, pp. 17-22. 



287. On Taenia mediocanellata. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. 1871, pp. 53-55. 



288. On Some extinct Turtles from Wyoming Territorv. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. 

 Phila. 1870, pp. 102-103. 



289. Remains of extinct Mammals from Wyoming. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. 

 Phila. 1871, pp. 113-116. 



290. Remains of Palteosvops from Fort Bridger. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 



1871, p. 118. 




1891.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 381 



291. Remarks on a fossil Testudo from Wyoming. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 

 1871, p. 154. 



292. Remarks on supposed fossil Turtle Eggs. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 

 1871, pp. 154-155. 



293. Fossils from Wyoming. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Piiila. 1871, p. 197. 



294. Remarks on fossil vertebrates from Wyoming. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. 

 Phila. 1871, pp. 228-229. 



295. Notice of some extinct Rodents from Wyoming, and description of My- 

 sops minimus. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1871, pp. 230-232. 



296. Remarks on the Minerals of Mount Mica. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 

 1871, pp. 245-247. 



297. Remarks on Fossils from Oregon ; Hadrohyus supremus, Rhinoceros 

 pacificus. Stylemys Oregonensis. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1871, pp. 247-248. 



298 Notice, of a new Tape-worm; Dibothrium cordiceps. Proc. Acad. Nat. 

 Phila. 1881, pp. 305-307. 



299. On a small collection of fossils from California. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. 

 Phila. 1871. p. .50. 



300. On Polydactylism in a horse. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1871, p. 113. 



301. On remains of Mastodon and Horse in North Carolina. Proc. Acad. Nat. 

 Sci. Phila. 1871, p. 113. 



302. Remarks on the Garnets of Green's Creek, Delaware Co. Proc. Acad. 

 Nat. Sci. Phila. 1871, p. 155. 



303. Remarks on Mastodon, etc. of California. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 



1871, pp. 198-199. 



304. Note on Anchitherium. Proc. Acad. Sci. Phila. 1871, p. 199. 



305. Remarks on fossil vertebrates from Wyoming. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. 

 Phila. 1871, pp. 228-229. 



306. Flies as means of communicating contagious diseases. Proc. Acad. Nat. 

 Sci. Phila. 1871, p. 297. 



307. On some new species of fossil mammalia from Wyoming; Paleeosyops 

 humilis, Uintatherium robu^tum, Uintamasti.x atro.x. Amer. Tourn. Sci. IV, 1872, 

 pp. 239-240. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1872, pp. 167-169. 



308. Notices of Corundum. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1872, p. 19. 



309. Remarks on fossils from Wyoming. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1872, pp. 

 19-21. 



310. Remarks on some extinct Mammals. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1872, 

 pp. 37-38. 



311. Remarks on some extinct Vertebrates; Felis augustus, Oligosimus grand- 

 sevus. Tylosteus ornatus. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1872, pp. 38-40. 



312. On a new genus of e.xtinct Turtles. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1872, p. 

 162. 



313. On some remains of cretaceous fi.shes; Otodus divaricatus, Oxyrhina ex- 

 tenta, .Acrodus humilis, Pycnodus faba. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1872. pp 

 1G2-164. 



314. On Artemia salina from Salt Lake, Utah. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila 



1872, pp. 164-166. 



315. Remarks on the habits of an Ant. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1872, p 

 218. 



316. Remarks on mineral springs, etc. of Wyoming and Utah. Proc. Acad. Nat 

 Sci. Phila. 1872, pp. 218-220. 



317. Notice of a corundum mine in Pennsylvania. Proc. .'\cad. Nat. Sci. Phila 

 1872. pp. 238-239. 



318. Remarks on fossil Mammals from Wyoming; Uintatherium robustum, 

 Palseosyops major. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1872, pp. 240-242. 



319. Remarks on chipped stones from Wyoming. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 

 1872, pp. 242-243. 



320. Remarks on fossils from Wyoming; Palseosyops junior, Uintacyon edax, 

 U. vorax, Chameleo pristinus. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1872, p. 277. 




382 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



321. On a Mite in the Ear of an Ox. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila, 1872. pp. 

 9-10. 



322. Note on Gamasus of the Ox. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1872. p. 138. 



323. Remarks on Mastodon from New Mexico. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 



1872, p. 142. 



324. Remarks on fossil shark teeth. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1872. p. 166. 



325. Remarks on the action of wind and sand on rocks. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. 

 Phila. 1872, p. 243. 



326. Contributions to the Extinct Fauna of the Western Territories. 

 Rept. U. S. Geo). Sur. of Ter. (Hayden), I, 1873, pp. 1-358, pis. I-XXXVII. 



327. Notice of fossil Vertebrates from the Miocene of Virginia. Proc. 

 Acad. Nat. .Sci. Phila. 1873, p. 15. 



328. Notice of remains of fishes in Bridger Tertiary formation of Wyoming. 

 Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1873, pp. 97-99. 



329. Remarks on the occurrence of an extinct Hog in America. Proc. Acad. 

 Nat. Sci. Phila. 1873, p. 207. 



330. Remarks on extinct Mammals in California. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 



1873, pp. 259-260. 



331. Fungus Parasite on a Mouse. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1873, pp. 

 260-261. 



332. On Distoma hepaticum. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1873, pp. 364-365. 



333. Remarks on fossil Elephant teeth. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. pp. 

 416-417. 



334. On circulatory movement in Vaucheria. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 

 1873, p. 420. 



335. On Iron Pyrites in Coal. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1873, p. 257. 



336. On a specimen of Mus rattus. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1873, p. 257. 



337. On Dufrenite. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1873, p. 257. 



338. On Lingula in a fish of the Susquehanna. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 



1873, p. 41.5-416. 



339. Remarks on Hydra. Proc. .-Vcad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1874, p. 10. 



340. Remarks on Protozoa. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1874, p. 13. 



341. On the Mode of Growth of Desmids. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1874, 

 p. 15. 



342. On Actinophrys sol. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1874. p. 23. 



343. Note on the Enemies of Difflugia. Proc. .-Vcad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1874, p. 

 75. 



344. Remarks on a supposed Compound derived from Leather. Proc. Acad. 

 Nat. Sci. Phila. 1874, p. 75. 



345. Notices of some New Fresh-water Rhizopods. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 



1874, p. 77. 



346. Notices of some Fresh-water and Terrestrial Rhizopods. Proc. Acad. Nat. 

 Sci. Phila. 1874, pp. 86-88. 



347. Remarks on the Revivification of Rotifer vulgaris. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. 

 Phila. 1874, pp. 88-89. 



318. On Pectinatella magnifica. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1874, p. 139. 



349. On a Parasitic Worm of the House-fly. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila 

 1874, p. 139. 



350. Notices of some Fresh Water Infusoria. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila 

 1874, p. 140. 



351. Notice of a remarkable Amoeba. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1874, pp 

 142-143. 



352. On the Mode in which Amoeba swallows its Food. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci 

 Phila. 1874, p. 143. 



353. On the Motive Power of Diatoms. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1874, p 

 143. 



354. Remarks on Sponges. Proc. .\cad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1874, p. 144. 




1891.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 383 



355. Notices of some Rhizopods. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1S74, pp. 15-5- 

 157. 



3-56. Note on Dryocampa. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1874, p. 160. 



3-57. Notice of remains of Titanotherium. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1874 

 pp. 165-166. 



3-58. Note of Rhizopods. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1874, pp. 166-168. 



3-59. On Supposed Spermaries in Amoeba. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1874 

 p. 168. 



360. On Specific Gravity. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1874, p. 218. 



361. Remarks on Fossils presented. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1874, pp 

 223-224. 



362. Notices of Rhizopods. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1874, pp. 225-227. 



363. Description of vertebrate remains chiefly from the Phosphate Beds of South 

 Carolina. Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci. VIII, 1874-81, pp. 209-261. 



364. The Parasites of the Termites. Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. VIII, 1874-81, 

 pp. 425-447. 



365. Remarks on Bathygnathus borealis. Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. VIII 

 1874-81, pp. 449-451. 



366. On a Fungus in a Flamingo. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1875, pp. 11-12. 



367. Notes on some Parasitic Worms. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1875 pp 

 14-16. 



368. Notes on some Parasitic Worms. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1875, pp 

 17-18. 



369. Remarks on some marine Rhizopods. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1875, 

 pp. 73-76. 



370. Remarks on a Coal Fossil, etc. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1875, p. 120. 



371. Remarlss on Elephant Remains. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1875 p 

 121. 



372. On a Curious Rhizopod. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1875, p. 124. 



373. On Psorospherms in a Mallard Duck. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila 1875 

 p. 125. 



374. On a Mouthless Fish. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1875, pp. 125-126. 



375. On Ouramoeba. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1875, pp. 126-127. 



376. On Mermis acuminata. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1875, p. 400. 



377. Remarks on Rhizopods. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1875, pp. 413-415. 



378. Quercus heterophylla. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. lS75, p. 415. 



379. On Petalodus. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1876, p. 9. 



380. Mastodon andium. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1876, p. 38. 



381. Remarks on Arcella, etc. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1876, pp. 54-58. 

 3S2. Remarks on Fossils from the Ashley Phosphate Beds. Proc. Acad Nat 



Sci. Phila. 1876, pp. 80-81, 86-87. 



383. Fish Remains of the Mesozoic Red Shales. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci Phila 

 1876. p. 81. 



384. Remarks on Fossds from the A.shley Phosphate Beds. Proc. Acad Nat 

 Sci. Phila. 1876, pp. 86-87. 



385. Remarks on Vertebrate Fossils from the Phosphate Beds of S. Carolina. 

 Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1876, pp. 114-115. 



386. Remarks on the Rhizopod Genus Nebela. Proc. Acad. Nat Sci Phila 

 1876, pp. 115-119. 



387. Bituminous Sediment of the Schuylkill River. Proc. Acad. Nat Sci Phila 

 1876. p. 193. 



3S8. Remarks on the Structure of Precious Opal. Proc. Acad. Nat Sci Phila 

 1876, pp. 195-197. 



389. Observations on Rhizopods. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1876, p. 197. 



390. On Ozocerite. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1876, p. 325. 



391. On Hyraceum. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1876, p. 325. 



392. Impurities in Drinking Water. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1877, p. 20. 



393. On Eozoon. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1877, p. 20. 




384 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



394. ( >n the Diaphragm. Pioc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1877, p. 20. 



395. Remarks on the Yellow Ant. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila 1877, p. 14-5. 



396. On Intestinal Parasites of Termes flavipes. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 

 1877, pp. 146-149. 



397. Remarks on Gregarines. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1877, pp. 196-198. 



398. On Chilomonas. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1877. p. 198. 



399. On Flukes infesting Mollusks. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1877, p. 



200. 



400. Remarks on some Parasitic Infusoria. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1877, 

 pp. 2.59-260. 



4!)1. Remarks on the Seventeen-Year Locust, the Hessian Fly and a Chelifer. 

 Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1877, pp. 26U-261. 



402. Birth of a Rhizopod. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. 1877, pp. 261-205. 



403. On the Bed-bug and its Allies. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1877, p. 284. 



404. On the Feeding of Dinamoeba. Proc. Acad. Nat. .Sci. Phila. 1877, pp. 

 28S-290. 



405. Concretions resembling Bones. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1877, p. 290. 



406. .-Kpparent Discriminative Power in the Selection of Food by a Heliozoon. 

 Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1877, pp. 291-292. 



407. Remarks on Rhizopods and Notice of a New Form. Proc. Acad. Nat. 

 Sci. Phila. 1877, pp. 293-294. 



408. On Fossil Fishes. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1877. pp. 294. 



409. Remarks on Ants. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1877, pp. 804-305. 



410. Remarks on the .\merican Species of Difflugia. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. 

 Phila. 1877, pp. 306-308. 



411. Circumspection of Ants. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1877, p. 320. 



412. Rhizopods in an Apple Tree. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1877, p. 321. 



413. On Citrine or Yellow Quartz. Proc. Acad. Nat. .Sci. Phila. 1878, p. 40. 



414. On Hippopotamus Tusk. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1878, p. 99. 



415. On Amceb.i. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1878, p. 99. 



416. A Louse of the Pelican. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1878, lOO-lOl. 



417. On Parasitic Worms in the Shad. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1878, p. 

 171. 



418 Species of Euglypha.Trinema, Pampha;^us and Cyphoderia. with Synonyma 

 and Descriptions of New Forms. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1878, pp. 171-173. 



419. Foraminifera ofthe Coast of New Jersey. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 

 1878 p. 292. 



420. o'n The Black Mildew of Walls. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1878, p. 331. 



421. Remarks on Mactra. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1878, pp. 332-333. 



422. Foraminiferous Shells of our Coast. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1878, p. 

 336. 



423. On Crustaceans at Cape May, N. J. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1878, 

 pp. 336-337. 



424. Notice of a Tetrarhynchus. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1878, p. 340. 



425. On Donax fossar. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1878, pp. 382-383. 



426. Notices of Gordius in the Cockroach and Leech. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. 

 Phila. 1878, pp. 383-384. 



427. On Trenia mediocanellata. Proc. Acad. Nat. .Sci. Phila. 1878, p. 405. 



428. Fresh-Water Rhizopods of North America.. Kept. U. S. Geol. Surv. 

 of Ter. (Hayden), XII, 1879, pp. i-ix, 1-324, pis. 1-XLVlII. 



429. On Gordi-s and on some Parasites of the Rat. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. 

 Phila. 1879, pp. 10-11. 



480. Fo.ssil Remains of a Caribou. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phib. 1879, pp. 32- 



33. 



431. On Rhizopods occurring in Sphagnum. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1879, 



pp. 162-163. 



432. Fossil Foot Tracks of the Anthracite Coal Measures. Proc. Acad. Nat. 



Sci. Phila. 1879, pp. 164-165. 




1891.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILAIJELPHIA. 385 



433. Explosion of a Diamond. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Piiila. 1879, p. 19-5. 



434. Keiiiarkb on Orgyia. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1879. pp. 195-196. 

 4>o. Notices of some Animals on the coast of New Jersey. Proc. Acad. Nat. 



Sci. Phila. 1879, pp. 198-199. 



436. On Cristatclla Idae. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1879, pp. 203-204. 



437. 0:i Amctba Blatta. Proc. Acad. Nat. .Sci. Phila. 1879, pp. 204-20.5. 



438. Wards Natural Science Establishment. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 

 1879, pp. 208-209. 



439. Notice of the Cruel Thread Worm, Filaria immitis of the Dog. Proc. 

 Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1880, pp. 10-12. 



440. On a Filaria Reported to have come from a Man. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. 

 Phila. 1S80, pp. 130-131. 



4U. Remarks on Pond Life. Proc. .Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1880, pp. 156-158. 



442. Rhizopods in the Mosses of the Summit of Roane Mountain, N. Carolina. 

 Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1880, pp. 333-340. 



443. Bjne Caves of Pennsylvania. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1880, pp. 

 346-349. 



444. Rhizopods as Food for Young Fishes. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. 1881, pp. 

 9-10. 



445. Remarks on some Rock Specimens. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1882, 

 pp. 10-12. 



446. Filaria of the Black Bass. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1882, p. 69. 



447. On Tourmalines. Proc. Acad. Nat. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1882, pp. 71-73. 



448. On Balanoglosbus, etc. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1882, p. 93. 



449. .Scolithus in Gravel. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1882, p. 93. 



450. On Sagitta, etc. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 18S2, pp. 102-103. 



451. On some Entozoa of Birds. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 18»2, p. 109. 



452. On a Copr.)lite and a pelible resembling an Indian hammer. Proc. Acad. 

 Nat. Sci. Phila. 1882, pp. 109-110. 



453. On Bacillus Anthracis. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1882, p. 145. 



454. On Enchvtraeus, Distichopus and their parasites. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. 

 Phila. 1882, pp. 145-148. 



455. The Yellow Ant with its flocks of Aphis and Coccus. Proc. Acad. Nat. 

 Sci. Phila. 1882. p. 148. 



456. Colorless Garnet and Tourmaline. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1882, p. 

 149. 



457. On Balanus, etc. at Bass Rocks, Mass. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1882, 

 pp. 224-225. 



458. On the Tobacco Worm, etc. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1882, pp. 237- 

 238. 



4-59. Rotifera without Rotary Organs. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1882, pp. 

 243-250. 



460. A new Infusorian belonging to the genus Pv.xicola. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. 

 Phila. 1882, pp. 252-253. 



461- Aciinosphjerium Eichhornii. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1882, pp. 260- 

 261. 



462. On Topaz and Biotite. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1882, p. 261. 



463. On ActinosphKrium, etc. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1882, pp. 261-262. 



464. On Tubularia, etc. from Atlantic City. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1882, 

 p. 262. 



46-5. On Remains of Horses. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1882, pp. 290-291. 



466. On an Extinct Peccary. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1882, pp. 301-302. 



467. On the Reproduction and Parasites of Anodonta fluviatilis. Proc. Acad. 

 Nat. Sci. Phila. 1883, pp. 44-46. 



468. Pediculus ve-timenti. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1883, p- 46. 



469. A Flint Nodule from the Green Sand of New Jersey. Proc. Acad. Nat. 

 Sci. Phila. 1883, p. 76. 



470. A .Social Heliozoan. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1883, pp. 95-96. 




386 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



471. Mineralogical Notes. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1883. p. 202. 



472. Manayunkia speciosa. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1883, pp. 204-212. 



473. On Manayunkia. Proc. Acad. Nac. Sci. Phila. 1883, p. 3U3. 



474. A study of the Temporal Bone. Science, I, 1883, pp. 380-385, 475-477, 

 506-7. 



47-3. Crystals in the Bark of Trees. Science, II, 1883, pp. 707-8. 



476. Urnatella gracilis, a fresh-water Polyzoan. Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 

 IX, 1884, pp. .5-16. 



477. Ant infected with a Fungus. Proc. Acad. Nat. .Sci. Phila. 1884, p. 9. 



478. Cassiterite from Black Hills, Dakota. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1884, 

 p. 9. 



479. The New Jersey Coast after the storm of Ian. 8, 1884. Proc. Acad. Nat. 

 Sci. Phila. 1884, pp. 12-13- 



48l>. Fossil Bones from Louisiana. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1884, p. 22. 



481. Foraminifera in the Drift of Minnesota. Proc. Acad. Nat Sci. Phila. 



1884. pp. 22-23. 



482. Diploma and Filariae. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1884, pp. 47-48. 



483. Dictyophora as Apsilus vorax. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Ptiila. 1884, pp. 

 50-51. 



484. On Eumeces chalcides. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1884, p. 66. 



485. Vertebrate Fossils from Florida. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1884, pp. 

 118-119. 



486. A Rare Human Tape Worm. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1884, p. 137. 



487. Pentastomum proboscideum. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1884, p. 140. 



488. Organi.sms in Ice. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1884, p. 260. 



489. On some Parasitic Worms of Birds. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1885, pp. 

 9-11. 



490. Rhinoceros and Hippotherium from Florida. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 



1885, pp. 32-33. 



491. Remarks on Mylodon. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1885, pp. 49-51. 



492. Bothriocephalus in a Trout. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1885, pp. 122- 

 123. 



493. Worms in Ice. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1885, pp. 4U8-409. 



494. An address on evolution and the pathological importance of lower forms of 

 life. Therapeutic Gazette, Detroit, 1886. 



495- Mastodon and Llama from Florida. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1886, pp. 

 11-12. 



496. Extinct Boar from Florida. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1886, pp. 37-38. 



497. Caries in the Mastodon. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1886, p. 38. 



498. On Amia and its probable Tnenia. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1886, 

 pp. 62-63. 



499. Toxodon and other remains from Nicaragua. ' Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. 

 Phila. 1886,275-277. 



500. Notices on Nematoid Worms. Proc. .-^cad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1886, pp. 

 308-313. 



501. Remarks on Parasites and Scorpions. Trans. Col. Phys. Phila. 3rd. Ser. 

 VIII, 1886, pp. 441-443. 



502. Notice of some Parasitic Worms. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1887, pp. 

 20-24. 



503. Parasite of a Bat. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1887, p. 38. 



504. Aspianchna Ebbesbornii. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1887, p. 157. 



505. Foisil Bones from Florida. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1887, pp. 309- 

 310. 



506. Remarks on Hydra. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1887, pp. 310-313. 



507. Bot-larvse in the Terrapin. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1887, pp. 393- 

 394. 



508. Tape-worms in Birds. Journ. Comp. Med. and Surg. VIII, 1887, pp. 

 1-11. 



d 




1891.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 387 



509. On a Fossil of the Puma. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1883, pp. 9-10. 



510. ChKtopterus from Florida. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1888, 73-74. 



511. Criolana feasting on the Edible Crab. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1888, 

 p. 80. 



612. On Bopyrus pal?emoneticola. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1888, p. 80. 



513. Note on Lepas fascicularis. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1888, pp. 80- 

 81. 



514. Reputed Tape-Worm in a Cucumber. Proc. Acad. Xat. Sci. Phila. 1888, 

 p. 81. 



515. Habit of Cirolana concharum. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1888, pp. 

 124-1 i5. 



516. Parasites of the Striped Bass. P.-oc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1888, p. 125. 



617. Tremotodes of the Muskrat. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1888, p. 126. 



618. Entozoa of the Terrapin. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1888, pp. 127-128. 



619. A Crustacean Parasite of the Red Snapper. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 



1888, pp. 138-139. 



520. Distinctive characters of Odontaspis littoralis. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. 

 Phila. 1888, pp. 163-164. 



521. Parasitic Crustacea. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1888, p. 165. 



522. Parasites of the Rock Fish. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1888, pp. 166- 

 167. 



523. Louse of the Pelican. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1888, pp. 167-168. ' 



524. Parasites of the Pickerel. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1888, p. 169. 



525. Megalonyx Jeffersonii. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1888, p. 273. 



626. Anomalies of the Human Skull. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1888, p. 

 273. 



527. Remarks on the Fauna of Beach Haven, N. J. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. 

 Phila. 1888, pp. 329-333. 



528. Food of Barnacles. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1888. pp. 431-432. 



529. Parasites of the Shad and Herring, journ. Comp. Med. and Surg. IX, 

 1888, pp. 211-215. 



530. On several Gregarines, and a .singular mode of conjugation of one of 

 them. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1889, pp. 9-11. 



531. The Sabre-Toothed Tiger of Florida. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1889, 

 pp. 29-31. 



532. Note on Gonyleptes and Solpuga. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1889, p. 

 45. 



533. The Boring Sponge, Cliona. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1889,70-75. 



534. A Parasitic Copepod. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1889, p. 95. 



535. Fossil Vertebrates from Florida. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1889, pp. 

 96-97. 



536. Notice of some fossil human bones. Trans. Wagner Free Inst. Sci. II, 



1889, pp. 9-12. 



537. Description of Mammalian remains from a rock-crevice Florida. Trans. 

 Wagner Free Inst. Sci. II, 1889, pp. 13-17. 



538. Description of Vertebrate remains from Peace Creek, Florida. Trans. 

 Wagner Free Inst. Sci. II. 1889, pp. 19-31. 



539. Notice of some Mammalian remains from the Salt Mine of Petite Anse, 

 Louisiana. Trans. Wagner Free Inst. Sci. II, 1889, pp. 33—40. 



540. On Platygonus, an extinct genus allied to the Peccaries. Trans. Wagner 

 Free Inst. Sci. II, 1889, pp. 41-50. 



541. Remarks on the nature of organic species. Trans. Wagner Free. Inst. 

 Sci. II, 1889, pp. 51-53. 



542. Hypoderasin the Little Blue Heron. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1890. 

 p. 63. 



543. Notice of an Ichneumon Fly. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1890, p. 63. 

 644. Fossil Vertebrates from Florida. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1890, pp. 



64-65. 




388 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



545. Hippotherium and Rhinoceros from Florida. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. 

 Phila. 189(J, pp. IS^-IS-S. 



546. Mastodon and Capybara of South Carolina. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 



1890, pp. 184-185. 



547. Remarks on Tics. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1830, pp. 278-280. 



548. Parasites of Mola rotunda. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1890, pp. 281- 

 282. 



549. Beroe on the New Jersey Coast. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1890, pp. 

 341-342. 



550. Remarks on Velella. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1890, pp. 40.S-4O9. 



551. Notices of Entozoa. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1890, pp. 410-418. 



552. Note on the Boring Soonge of the Oyster. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 



1891, p. 122. 



553. Notice ofsome Entozoa. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1891, 234r-236. 




1891.] NATURAL SCIE>fCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 389 



NEW AMERICAN MYXOMYCETES. 

 GEO. A. PvEX, M. D. 

 Pliysarum nucleatum. 



Sporangia exactly spherical, about '5 mm. in diameter, stipitate, 

 erect or slightly nodding ; wall of sporangium membranaceous, rup- 

 turing irregularly, generally thickly studded with rounded, white 

 lime granules. 



Stipes from 1 to 1"5 mm. in height, subulate, yellowish-white, lon- 

 gitudinally rugose. Columella wanting ; capillitium composed of a 

 very closely meshed net of delicate snow-white tubules with minute 

 round or rounded white granules of lime at the intersections. In 

 the center of the capillitium net, there is usually a conspicuous mass 

 of lime generally forming a shining white ball, not continuous with 

 the stipe, although sometimes having a prolongation downward 

 toward it, this ball being rarely supplanted by a closely com- 

 pacted mass of irregular lime granules holding the same relative 

 position. Spores 6-7 p.. in diam., brown violet in color ; epispores 

 delicately spinulose, although apparently smooth when examined 

 under medium power lenses. 



Fairmount Park, Philadelphia. 



This species most nearly resembles in appearance and habit of 

 growth Fhys. Petersii B. & C. var. Farlowi Rost., but may be dis- 

 tinguished from it by the absence of a columella, by the central ball 

 of lime and the very small rounded lime granules in the meshes of 

 the capillitium. Exceptionally the lime granules of the sporangium 

 wall are sparse or absent entirely, in which case the wall has a sil- 

 very or coppery metallic lustre. 



Physarum penetrate. 



Sporangia erect, stipitate, generally ellipsoidal or pyriform, rarely 

 globose, from 'o X '5 mm. to "o X '7 mm. in diameter. Sporangium walls 

 membranaceous, semitransparent, studded sparsely with rounded, 

 pale yellow or yellow-gray lime granules, rupturing to the base into 

 from two to four segments. Stipes very variable, from 'b to 2 mm. 

 in height, slender, subulate, longitudinally rugose, flattened laterally 

 toward the base, translucent, dull red or golden red in color. 



Columella formed by a continuation of the stipe penetrating the 

 sporangium to about four-fifths its height, reddish-yellow in color, 

 slender, tapering to a wedge-shaped end. Capillitium composed of 




390 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



a closely and irregularly meshed reticulation of delicate white tub- 

 ules with a variable number of obtuse angled or irregularly rounded, 

 pale yellow granules of lime at the intersections. Spores 6-6*5 //.. 

 in diameter, brown in mass, delicately spinulose, although appar- 

 ently smooth under lenses of medium power. 



Fairmount Park, Phila., Adirondack Mts., N. Y., White Mts., 

 N. H., Rangeley, Maine and Ohio (A. P. Morgan). 



The leading characteristic of this species is its columella, which is 

 longer than that of any described Physuruni. It is a true columella 

 and not a mere aggregation or columella-like mass of lime granules, 

 such as may be found in many species of Physarum. 



Chondrioderma aculeatum. 



Sporangia sessile, lenticular or hemispherical, flattened above, 

 and concave, sometimes umbilicate, below. Walls of sporangia 

 double, separated by a well marked interspace ; external wall dusky 

 or yellowish-white, papyraceous, wrinkled when dry, ultimately 

 cracking and rupturing irregularly ; internal wall thin, membrana- 

 ceous, semi-transparent, grayish, rarely iridescent. 



Columella irregular, sometimes small and hardly evident ; upper 

 surface rugose with ridges or thickenings, the edges of which bristle 

 with well marked spine-like processes. 



Columella and inner surface of base of sporangium uniformly 

 nut brown in color. Capillitium pure white, scanty, composed of 

 simple, sparsely branched sinuous threads attached to the spines of 

 the columella in a slightly fasciculate manner, and radiating thence 

 to the inner wall of the sporangium. 



Spores dark violet, 12-13 //.in diameter, spinulose under medium 

 powers. 



Bar Harbor, Me ; Adirondack Mts., N. Y. 



This species is a true Didenna analogous to C. difforme and C. 

 testaeeum but is sufficiently distinguished by its tough parchment- 

 like external wall and its spinose columella. 

 Stemonitis "Webberi. 



Sporangia gregarious, standing on a common hypothallus, erect, 

 stipitate, more or less cylindrical, obtuse, sometimes slightly clavate, 

 sometimes recurved at the apex, 10-12 mm. in height including 

 stipes. 



Stipes black, shining, about 2 mm. high. Columella central, run- 

 ing nearly to the apex where it subdivides into several branches. 



J 




1891.] NATURAL SCEENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 391 



Capillitiuiu composed of widely separated radial threads of a brown 

 violet color, originating by triangular plasmodic expansions at the 

 point of attachment to the columella, connecting with each other by 

 lateral branches given off close to the columella, often forming a 

 second series of expansions at the junctions, then running to the sur- 

 face where they branch and form a delicate surface net-work of a 

 pale brown color with large irregularly oblong meshes, varying from 

 40 to 160 //. in length. Terminal and recurved portion of surface 

 net-work, frequently composed of thickened threads which unite 

 with the terminal branches of the columella forming an irregular 

 plexus. 



Spores 7-8 p.. in diameter, ferruginous color in mass, with thick, 

 delicately spinulose epispores which are apparently smooth under 

 lenses of medium power. 



Manhattan, Kansas, H. J. AVebber. 



This is a well marked species with distinctive characters. The 

 meshes of the surface net-work are larger than those of any species 

 yet described. It is still further distinguished from Stemonitis 

 splendens Rost. or any allied species by its ferruginous colored 

 spores and pale, delicate surface capillitium. 



Stemonitis Virginiensis. 



Sporangia erect, stipitate, gregarious, growing on a common 

 hypothallus, usually found in small isolated clusters, occasionally, 

 however, in continuous masses, from 3-3'5 mm. in height, including 

 stipes, about '5 mm. in width, cylindrical or elongated ovate, rounded 

 at apex or terminating in a short blunt point, and often umbilicate 

 at the base. 



Stipes averaging 1"3 mm. in length, black and shining. Colu- 

 mella central, running to the apex where it joins the capillitium by 

 several terminal branches. 



Capillitium composed of an intricate net-work of numerous slen- 

 der, dark brown, flexuous threads orginating in the columella and 

 joined together by numerous arcuate lateral branches, terminating 

 in a surface net parallel to the walls of the sporangium ; meshes of 

 the surface net irregular in shape, 6-12 p.. in diameter, often evanes- 

 cent in the upper part of the sporangium, breaking away by the 

 dispersion of the spores. Spores umber brown in mass, 5'5 to ^'o ;j.. 

 in diameter, epispores conspicuously reticulated with about 10-12 

 reticulations to the hemisphere. 



Allegheny Mts., Virginia. 




392 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



This species resembles in its general appearance, Coniatricha 

 typhina Roth. The threads composing the meshes of the surface net 

 often have dark bulbous thickenings of about twice their usual 

 diameter, occurring irregularly in their course or at their intersec- 

 tions. The spores are beautifully and clearly sculptured with deep 

 reticulations, which can be determined readily with a lens of medium 

 power. The species may be distinguished from *S'. dictyospora, by 

 its more strongly marked spore, the smaller size of its sporangia and 

 its comatricha-like habit of growth. 

 Stemonitis nigrescens. 



Sporangia gregarious, standing on a common hypothallus, erect, 

 more or less cylindrical, entire height with stipe about 4 mm. 



Stipes '5 mm. long, black. 



Columella central, running to apex of sporangium, then subdivid- 

 ing into several branches. Capillitium, violet black in the center, 

 arcuate, flexuous, forming a loose meshed central reticulation which 

 becomes dark violet as it nearsthe surface. Surface net- work, com- 

 plete and characteristic of the genus only on the lower third of the 

 sporangium, being usually irregular in the middle portion and 

 evanescent or falling away with the spores toward the apex. When 

 perfect, the meshes of the surface net vary from 12-20 p.. in diam- 

 eter. 



Spores 8 //.. in diameter, nearly black in mass, deep blackish violet 

 singly under a microscope. Epispores thick, sharply and promi- 

 nently spinulose with a quite moderate amplification. 



Fairmount Park, Philadelphia. 



This species is noteworthy for its comparatively short stipes, its 

 very spinulose spores and its black or nearly black color, the slight 

 violet tint being only apparent on close inspection, especially in 

 fresh, moist specimens. It is a species which illustrates the difficulty 

 of determination in a case wh.ere the diagnostic characters of two 

 adjoining genera apparently blend together. Although characters 

 of both Stemonitis and Coniatricha are to be found in it, yet those 

 of the former genus seem to predominate and the species is, therefore, 

 so referred. Such borderland species as this and Coinatricha sub- 

 ccespitosa Pk., seem to point to the necessity for a revision of the 

 boundary lines between the two genera, which, in these examples, 

 are practically narrowed down to the question of the degree of the 

 parallelism of the surface net to the walls of the sporangium. 




1891.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 393 



Comatricha irregularis. 



Sporangia gregariou.s, standing on a common hypothallus, semi- 

 erect, drooping, total height with stipes 3"5 to 7 mm. usually about 

 4 mm., very irregular and variable in outline and size, either 

 irregularly cylindrical distorted by one or more nodulose swellings, 

 or irregularly elongated conical or ovate, or cylindrical and flattened 

 laterally with longitudinal grooves on the flattened sides, or occasion- 

 ally regularly cylindrical. 



Stipes black, slender, usually equalling the length of the sporan- 

 gia but varying from one-half to twice their length. 



Columella central, slender, flexuous, running to the apex where it 

 branches and joins the eapillitium. Capillitium composed of arcuate 

 threads which radiate from the columella and are joined together 

 forming a central irregular reticulation of large, coarse loops or 

 meshes, at first brown, then becoming paler and more slender as 

 they approach the surface, finally forming an irregular exterior 

 reticulation of delicate, pure white or colorless threads which ter- 

 minate on the surface everywhere in free ends. 



Peripheral capillitium very evanescent. 



Spores dark brown in mass, from 7-8 //. in diameter. Epispores 

 thick, warted, with dark rounded warts. 



Fairmount Park, Philadelphia ; Xew Jersey (Ellis) ; Ohio (Mor- 

 gan). 



Although this species has the general habit of growth of Stemonitis, 

 I have not been able, in any of the specimens which I have examined, 

 to detect even a fragment of the characteristic surface net-work of 

 that genus. 



The peripheral branches of the capillitium are pure white, giv- 

 ing under a reflector a frosted or hoary appearance strongly con- 

 trasting with the darker threads beneath. They are exceedingly 

 delicate, breaking away easily with the spores which seem to have 

 more tendency to agglutination than those of other species. 



Cribraria violacea. 



Sporangia stipitate, erect or slightly nodding, total height with 

 stipe "5 mm. to 1 mm., dark violet with a metallic sheen, ellipsoidal 

 or ovoid, rarely globose. Stipes '3 to '5 mm. high, slender, subulate, 

 longitudinally rugose, dark blackish-violet becoming black at the 

 base. 



Sporangium wall formed of a pale violet membrane, thickly studded 

 with dark violet plasraodic granules, externally Avrinkled, entire for 

 26 




394 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



two-thirds or more of its basal portion forruing a permanent recepta- 

 cle, the upper third being in effect lacerated into irregularly shaped 

 fragments, which are joined by a few simple threads forming a sparse 

 irregular net-work. Exceptionally the apical portion is nearly 

 entire, being simply perforated with three or four oval or rounded 

 openings. 



Spores 8 //. in diameter, dark violet-red color in mass, but pale red 

 under the microscope, epispores thick, delicately but clearly warted, 

 though apparently smooth under medium powers. 



Fairmount Park, Philadelphia, Adirondack Mts., N. Y. and 

 Manhattan, Kansas (W. T. Swingle). 



This species originates fi'om a deep violet-black plasraodium. As 

 usually found, it is diminutive, rivalling Cribraria mieroscopica 

 B. & C. Its marked characters are its color, its proportionally 

 large receptacle and its large delicately spinulose spores which are 

 not exceeded or probably equalled in size by those of any recorded 

 Cribraria. 

 Cribraria languescens. 



Sporangia scattered, drooping, spherical "25 to "35 mm. in diam- 

 eter. Receptacle about one-third of the periphery of the sporangium, 

 red-brown, shining, minutely striate with granular lines, serrated 

 more or less regularly about the margin. 



Net-work red-brown, composed of simple threads with polygonal 

 knots, having usually five or six angles and straight or only slightly 

 concave sides, forming more or less triangular interspaces at the inter- 

 sections. Stipes about 2"5 to 3 mm. high, slender, subulate, dark 

 red-brown , somewhat sinuous or wavy, longitudinally rugose. Spores 

 when recent, dull red in mass, becoming paler in time, averaging 

 6 //. in diameter. 



Shawangunk and Adirondack Mts., N. Y. 



The excessive variability which characterizes the genus Cribraria 

 is especially shown by the group of species having net-works with 

 angular knots at the intersections. The type species of Schrader 

 have served their purpose so well for nearly a century that all later 

 monographers have continued them without question and with few 

 additions to their numbers. There is, however, in American speci- 

 mens at least, a steady and well marked intergradation between these 

 central types, evolving an infinite number of variations which serve 

 to confuse and perplex the student. 




1891.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 395 



There are also man)' intermediate types, some of which are quite 

 as constant and possess quite as marked an individuality as the 

 Schraderian types, which cannot legitimately be referred to them even 

 as varieties. The species just described may be cited as an exam- 

 ple. I have found specimens of it several years apart, growing in 

 widely different habitats and yet the specific characters are constant 

 in all cases. In its scattered and solitary growth, its tall slender 

 stipes and relaxed habit, it resembles C. microcarpa, in its net-work 

 it approaches C. tenella, and its spores have the color of the paler 

 forms of C. purpurea. 



With all of these resemblances, however, it has a marked individ- 

 uality. 



Trichia Andersoni. 



Sporangia sessile, closely aggregated in clusters, globose, flattened, 

 sometimes a little elongated, usually '4-"5 mm. in diameter. Walls 

 of sporangia sometimes roughened or corrugated showing under the 

 lens fine lines or striae radiating from local centers. Color of the 

 unbroken sporangia dark olivaceous. 



Capillitium composed of cylindrical elatei's of a deep orange yel- 

 low color, 3'7o !i. in diameter, provided with four spirals winding 

 evenly and closely, without or with very narrow interspaces. 



Ends of elaters tapering, 18 /^., long, the outer half being smooth 

 or free from spirals. Spores greenish-yellow or olivaceous 11-12 ,«. 

 in diameter, delicately spinulose, but apparently smooth under 

 medium power lenses. 



Sand Coulee, Montana, F. W. Anderson. 



This Trichia presents a strong conti'ast between its olivaceous 

 spores and its deep orange capillitium. It differs from the Trichia 

 chrysospenna group of sessile aggregate Trichias, in the absence of 

 interspiral or longitudinal filaments. 



Hemiarcyria obscura. 



Sporangia sessile, scattered, globose, or elongated globose slightly 

 curved, dusky or brownish-red in color, inconspicuous, "4 to 1 mm. in 

 length by about "4 mm. in width. 



Capillitium of a dull brick red color, composed of a sparingly 

 branched, loose meshed net-work with few or no free ends. Tubes 

 of capillitium slender, uniform, without expansions, 2'5 mm. in diam- 

 eter, provided with seven or eight spirals winding evenly with nar- 

 row interspaces, faint and inconspicuous under medium power lenses. 




396 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



Spores 10-10.5 p.. delicately Avarted and of a pale lemon-yellow 

 color. 



Sand Coulee, Montana, F. W. Anderson. 



The noteworthy features in this Hemiarcyria are the slender and 

 faintly marked capillitium and the strong contrast in color, as in 

 the preceding species, between the spores and capillitium. 



Hemiarcyria longifila. 



Sporangia simple, stipitate, erect, golden-yellow in color, globose- 

 turbiuate or pyriform, rupturing irregularly at the top leaving a 

 short funnel-shaped receptacle. Sporangium wall thin, translucent^ 

 shining. Height of sporangium, including stipe, averaging 1'3 

 mm. Stipes dark red-brown, longitudinally rugose. Capillitium 

 composed usually of single long threads, not branched or very 

 sparingly branched. These threads are doubled in their course into 

 a succession of loops which are usually twisted upon themselves, the 

 whole expanding upon the rupture of the sporangium Avail into an 

 elongated tangled mass. 



Tubes of capillitium 3'5-4 //. in diameter, provided usually Avith 

 four spirals sparsely spinulose Avith short,sharpspiues,Avindinge\'enly 

 and regularly and separated by Avide interspaces two or three times 

 their Avidth ; adjoining spirals connected by conspicuous longitu- 

 dinal filaments. 



Capillitium and spores concolorous, being orange-yelloAV in mass. 



Spores delicately Avarted, 9-10 ,'j.. in diameter. 



Fairmount Park, Philadelphia. 



Externally this species resembles Hemiarcyria clavata Pers. and 

 has probably often been mistaken for it. The capillitium, hoAveA'er, 

 in its structural details and habit of growth is Avidely different. The 

 partial untAvisting of the loops of the capillitium by drying, after 

 the rupture of the sporangium, causes it to be projected and elon- 

 gated, sometimes tAvo or three times the length of the sporangium. 

 In this particular it resembles Heviiarcyria rubiformis, but the mass 

 of capillitium is not nearly so dense. 

 Hemiarcyria Varneyi. 



Sporangia stipitate, erect, elongated ovate, about 1 mm. high 

 including stipes. Sporangium wall evanescent above, breaking 

 away at maturity leaving a shallow cup-like receptacle at the base. 



Stipes short, '2 mm. or less in height, dull brown. Capillitium 

 dull ochre, attached to the center of the receptacle, elongated, form- 




1801.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 397 



ing a closely meshed reticulation, liaviug numerous short, slightly 

 clavate free ends which proceed from the peripheral meshes. 



Tubes of capillitium 3'2-3'o //. wide, provided with seven or eight 

 spirals winding unevenly with interspaces averaging the width of a 

 spiral. The free ends and the external loops of the capillitium from 

 which they proceed, spiniilose with short, blunt spines attached 

 to; the spirals. Spores 6"25 p.. in diameter, pale, smooth. 



Kansas, Miss May Varney (com. W. T. Swingle). 



This species must be referred to the comprehensive genus Hemiar- 

 cyria by reason of the spiral structure of its capillitium ; in all other 

 respects, it resembles the genus Arcyria and would unhesitatingly be 

 referred to it, without a microscopic examination of the threads. 

 The habit of growth of the sporangium wnth its evanescent upper 

 wall and permanent saucer-like base, the close mesh of the capilli- 

 tium net, and the small, smooth, thin walled spores are all charac- 

 teristic of the genus Arcyria. 



Together with the neighboring American species Hemiarcyria 

 stipata Swz. which has an analogous structure, it properly forms a 

 separate subsection of the genus. 



DIANEMA Nov. Gen. 



Sporangia simple or plasmodiocarpous with membranaceous non- 

 calcareous walls. 



Capillitium composed of threads w^ithout characteristic thicken- 

 ings, running entirely across the sporangium, attached both to the 

 base and to the opposite wall, and not joined together to form a 

 net-work. 

 Dianema Harveyi. 



Sporangia sessile, generally rounded or cushion-shaped, flattened 

 above, averaging about 1 mm. in diameter ,*35 ram. in height, sometimes 

 elongated and bent into an 'irregular horse-shoe-shape, color gold 

 bronze, with a metallic lustre. Sporangium walls membranaceous, 

 thin, translucent, containing no trace of lime, rupturing irregularly. 



Capillitium and spores concolorous, being brownish-yellow in mass. 



Capillitium composed of numerous slender threads from 1'5 to 2 //. 

 in diameter, not connected with each other, simple, without free 

 branches but often forked two or three times near their origin or in- 

 sertion, nearly parallel, taut, running from base to the top of the 

 sporangium. Spores 8 //. in diameter, pale yellow under a micro- 




398 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



scope, delicately spinulose, but apparently smooth under medijjm 

 power lenses. 



Orono, Maine, F. L. Harvey. 



This is in some respects an anomalous genus which it is difficult 

 to classify satisfactorily. In the structural relation of the capilli- 

 tium to the sporangium walls, it is analogous to the sessile species of 

 the Didymiacese, but it lacks the violaceous colored spores and the 

 calcareous external walls characteristic of that family. 



It is most nearly allied to the Perichsenacese by reason of the 

 color of its spores and its simple unmarked capillitium, but cannot 

 correctly be classified with that family, at least in the classification 

 of recent monographers without some modification of their definition 

 of the family limitations. 



At present it stands as a single representative of a new and sep- 

 arate family adjoining the Perichjenaceae in the order Calonemese 

 Rost. 



It has been deemed advisable in the present paper, to specify ap- 

 proximately the amplification used in the foregoing descriptions of 

 the sculpturing of the spores and capillitium of the species repre- 

 sented, in order to pi'event errors in determination. 



By medium power lenses, therefore, such lenses are meant as the 

 one-quarter or one-fifth inch objectives in common use, which will 

 give an amplification with a one inch ocular, of from 400 to 500 dia- 

 meters. 




1891.] natural sciences of philadelphia, 399 



July 7. 



Mr. Thomas Meehan, Vice-President, in the chair. 



Twenty-five persons present. 



The death of Richard M. Schomburg, a correspondent, March 

 24, 1891, was announced. 



July 14. 

 Mr. Thomas Meehan, Vice-President, in the chair. 

 Twenty-two persons present. 



July 21. 



Mr. Thomas Meehan, Vice-President, in the chair. 



Sixteen persons present. 



A paper entitled " The Summer Birds of Harvey's Lake, Luzerne 

 Co., Penna., with remarks on the Faunal Position of the Region," 

 by Witmer Stone, was presented for publication. 



July 28. 

 Mr. Thomas Meehan, Vice-President, in the chair. 

 Thirteen persons present. 



John L. Kinsey and Charles W. Dulles, M. D. were elected 

 members. 



The following was ordered to be printed : — 




4U0 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



DESCEIPTION OF A NEW SPECIES OF VAMPYROPS. 

 BY HARRISON ALLEN, M. D. 

 Vampyrops zarhinus. sp. nov. 



Horizoutal portion of nose-leaf free-projecting ; upper lip crossed 

 by a row of small warts. Outer margin of the tragus scarcely ser- 

 rate and bears a single tooth at the upper border of the well-defined 

 notch. The tip scarcely acuminate. The auricle moderately elongate, 

 shorter thanjthe head, external basal lobe rounded with a sharply 

 inverted border anteriorly. 



Fur dark brown above, lighter shade of brown beneath. The 

 dorsal aspect of forearm covered with short hair. Two lateral white 

 head stripes are present. A faint median napal white stripe is dis- 

 cernible which disappears between the shoulders, and a trace only 

 ao-ain seen for a short distance farther down. Interfemoral mem- 

 brane excised on a level with the distal third of the tibia. Back of 

 thio-h, and leg hairy; a thin sparse growth seen on the dorsum of 

 the interfemoral membrane. The first phalanx of the third digit 

 over one-half the length of the second ; the third phalanx twice the 

 length of the second. In other respects as in F. lineatiis. 



The manal formula^ is as follows : 



1st interspace, 3mm., 2nd interspace, 17 mm., 3rd interspace, 

 25 mm. Difference between 2nd and Brd, 8 mm. Forearm, 37 mm. 



Skull 22 mm. long ; greatest breadth (bi-auricular), 10 j mm. ; least 

 width (at proencephalou), 6 mm. Mesopterygoid fossa narrow, acu- 

 minate ; pterygoid produced in a distinct spine ; angular process of 

 the mandible practically nil, posterior border of the coronoid pro- 

 cess concave. 



1 I proposed the term manal formula for the widths of the spaces between 

 the metacarpal bones at the distal ends when the wing is extended — as compared 

 with the length of the forearm — in 1S90. (See Proc. Amer. Philosoph. Soc. 

 xxvii, Jan. 23rd.) This formula has been found by me to be of value in distin- 

 guishing species in a group in which many of the best characters are not found on 

 the periphery. It has been suggested to me that this term should be "manual" 

 instead of "manal." I avoided the term "manual" since the significance uni- 

 formly attached to this adjective forbad in my judgment its employment in this 

 new coDDection, and that it was permissible to slightly modify the .spelimg of the 

 word. If, however, such a course be found inadmissible the word '• pteral " may 

 be substituted. 




1891.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 401 



Teeth. The maxillary incisors much smaller than in T . linenhis, 

 without notch on cutting edge, converging but not touching ; the 

 interval between them equalling that between the rudimental lateral 

 incisor and the canine. First premolar not touching second pre- 

 molar, compressed from before backward. Second premolar with 

 well defined denticle on posterior border. Canine with a narrow 

 groove on posterior surface just outside axis of tooth-row ; first molar 

 smaller than second ; no disposition for basis of paracone and meta- 

 cone to join protocone, but the grinding surface is broad and simple ; 

 protocone and hypocone are rudimental, scarcely raised above the 

 gum. The paracone sending caliciform lines about the base of the 

 metacone limb and partially enclosing it. The characters of the 

 second molar quite as first. The third molar in tooth row, and about 

 one-fourth the size of the second molar, — rudiments of protocone, 

 paracone and metacone being discernible. 



The mandibular incisors with intervals between the teeth and 

 between third tooth and canine. The canine and premolar much 

 as in V. lineatus ; the posterior border of the paracone of the second 

 premolar is distinguished by being crenulated. The canine as high 

 as the second premolar. The molars are more rudimental than 

 those of V. lineatus. The last molar is not acuminate as in this 

 species, but is flat and, relatively to the size of the second molar, is 

 much larger, being indeed one-third the size of the second and rela- 

 tively larger than in V. lineatus. The molar teeth throughout with 

 disposition to marginal cusps, — the grinding surface being smooth 

 and concav^e. 



Measurements. 



MM. 



Head and body (from crown of head to base of tail), 434 



Length of arm, 21 



Length of forearm, 37 



T^- J. T -^ \ Leno;th of first metacarpal bone, 3 



First digit i -r .1 ^fi . 1 1 ^ 



(. Length oi first phalanx, 5 



o 1 T V f Length of second metacarpal bone, 28 



Second digit] y ''„.«,, , ^ o- 



I Length or first phalanx, o 



f Length of third metacarpal bone, 37 



„,.,,.. I Length of first phalanx, 13 



Ihird digit S T xi i" J u 1 oi 



° • Length oi second phalanx, 21 



L Length of third phalanx, 10] 



or- 




402 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891- 



MM. 



r Length of fourth metacarpal bone, 35 



Fourth digit -< Length of first phalanx, 11 



C Length of second phalanx, 13 



r Length of fifth metacarpal bone, 36 



Fifth digit } Length of first phalanx, 8 



( Length of second phalanx, 11 



Length of head, 14 



Height of ear, 13 



Height of tragus, 5 



Length of thigh, 10 



Length of tibia, 13 



Length of foot, 10 



One adult female (gravid) in alcohol. Mus. Comp. Zool. Cam- 

 bridge, Mass. Habitat Brazil. Collected by Thayer expedition. 



I am indebted to Prof. Alexander Agassiz for the opportunity of 

 studying this form. 



V. zarhlnus agrees with V. vittatus, V. infuscns, and V. lineatns 

 in the possession of three molars in the upper jaw, but is smaller 

 than any of these species, since the forearm is but 35 mm. long and 

 the distance from the front of the canine to the back of the second 

 molar is but 7 mm. It resembles V. iyifuscus in the indistinct dor- 

 sal stripe but is distinguished therefrom by the presence of well 

 defined facial stripes. In the rudimental angular process of the 

 lower jaw and the long pointed mesopterygoid fossa, V. zarhinus is 

 readily distinguished from V. lineatus the only other species which I 

 have examined. In none of the species, even including the aberrant 

 V. carraciolae Thomas, are the incisor teeth as wide apart as in V. 

 zarhinus and in this respect it recalls the species of Chirodernia. 



The rudimental condition of the angular process of the mandible 

 if found to be a constant character in all the species of Vainpyrops 

 will serve to distinguish this genus from its ally Chiroderma in which 

 the process examined is of immense size, quite as large, indeed, as in 

 Brachyphylla. 



Remarks on Vainpyrops lineatus. The only other species of the genus 

 with which I am familiar is V. lineatus. In this form the nose-leaf 

 is not free and projecting at the horizontal portion ; the auricle is 

 more deeply emarginate than in V. zarhinus and is without the 

 incurvation of the anterior part of the basal lobe. The tragus is 

 more distinctly crenulate and has a much smaller basal notch. The 




1891.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 403 



notch in the interfemoral membrane is on a line with the proximal 

 third of the femur. 



The manal formula is widely different. It is as follows: 



2nd interspace, 5 mm., 3rd interspace, 20 mm., 4th interspace, 

 36 mm. Difference between 3rd and 4th, 16 mm. Forearm, 48 mm. 



Skull. The greatest length, 25 mm. ; greatest width, 10 mm. ; 

 least width, 6 i mm. ; distance from front of maxillary canine to 

 posterior border of second molar, 9 mm. ; angular process much 

 larger than in V. zarhinus, but smaller than in any other stenoder- 

 matous genus examined." Mesopterygoid fossa broad, rounded at 

 anterior end ; pterygoid not produced ; posterior border of coronoid 

 process not concave. 



The following embrace the more important measurements of V. 

 lineatus : 



MM. 



Head and body (from crown of head to base of tail), 57 



Length of forearm, 48 



f Length of first phalanx, 18 



Third digit -j Length of second phalanx, 23 



C Length of third phalanx, 15 



Fourth digit j ^""^'1 1 ^''' P^l""?' \f 



L Length or second phalanx, lo 



-n-Au J- -i. ( Length of first phalanx, 19i 



Fifth digit i -r * , ^ , 1 T 1 o 



(. Length of second phalanx, 1^ 



Length of head, 27 



Height of ear, 17 



Height of tragus. 



Length of thigh, 15 



Length of tibia, 17 



Length of foot, 10 



Teeth of V. lineatus. Incisor teeth with notch on cutting edge not 

 touching each other or the canines ; proportions much as in V. zar- 

 hinus but the centrals somewhat wider and larger. First premolar 

 compressed from before backward, in contact with oblique posterior 

 border of the canine ; proportions as mV. zarhinus. Second premolar 

 with broad denticle on posterior border. Maxillary molars with 

 markings about base of metacone more distinct than in V. zarhimis. 

 The palatal aspect of paracone fretted. The first molar with large 

 conical protoconid ; paraconid rudimental, not differentiated from 



^ This list includes all the genera excepting Pygoderma, Ametrida and Sten- 

 oderma. 




40-4 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



the conspicuous lingual cingulum, a sharply projected anterior basal 

 lobe continuous with commissure (overlapping the crown of the 

 second premolar in part) forms the anterior border of the tooth. 

 To the outer side of the lingual cingulum, i. e., on the grinding face 

 of crown, are two nodules in position of raetaconid ; hypoconid 

 inconspicuous ; entoconid conspicuous, cusp-like and joined by a 

 high posterior coramissufe. The second molar with opposed proto- 

 conid and jjaraconid followed by a deep posterior prolongation with 

 a cresent-like posterior border which is accentuated on lingual side 

 to form a cusp (entoconid). 



Remarks on Chiroderma. Since Mr. Oldfield Thomas (Am. Mag. 

 ISTat. Hist. Vol. IV, 1889) has claimed that Chiroderma is not dis- 

 tinct from Vampyrops, an examination of the dentition of C. Salvini 

 was substituted with the following result: The maxillary incisors 

 with slender cylindroid centrals which are four times the length of 

 the laterals end without notched free edges. Canines as long as the 

 combined length of the molars (measured from buccal aspect) and 

 delicately fluted on the posterior surface. First premolar about 

 one-fourth the size of the second and contiguous with canine. An 

 interval is defined between the premolars ; the second premolar is 

 with well developed basal cusps both anteriorly and posteriorly, but 

 is without denticle on the posterior border. 



The first molar. The thickened conjoined base of the sectorial 

 paracone and metacone contiguous with the base of the protocone 

 on the grinding surface of the tooth ; no basal development in meta- 

 cone such as is seen in Vampyrops ; hypocone reduced to a depressed 

 rudiment without cusp. Protocone robust, cuspidate, twice the 

 height of the same in Vampyrops. 



The second molar. The base of the paracone and metacone not 

 conjoined or touching the base of the protocone ; hypocone absent ; 

 first mandibular premolar rudimental, flat, scai'cely raised above the 

 gum line, touching canine but not second premolar. The second 

 premolar long, prominent, almost as high as the canine, — a sharp 

 ledge-like cingulum at base anteriorly. Paraconid large, trenchant 

 and deeply fluted on anterior surface ; hypoconid much lower than 

 it but also trenchant. The rest of the tooth broad, low, flat, without 

 raised border in region of the entoconid. 



Last molar Avith protoconid larger than the paraconid. A com- 

 missure extends from the protoconid to be continuous with the lin- 

 gual cingulum. Paraconid not developed from cingulum ; hypo- 




1891.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 405 



conid simple but well defined, conoidal ; entoconid well developed. 

 An unnamed nodule on posterior border of the tooth at the buccal 

 side of the entoconid. 



The molars throughout with cusps directly on the grinding surface, 

 i. e„ not confined to the margins. The' cranium is in like manner 

 distinct from Vampyrops in the great size of the angular process of 

 the mandible. 



In my judgment differences from Vampyrops of the kind denoted 

 in the above description are sufficient to separate Chiroderma from 

 other Sternodei'ms, until the shapes of the molar teeth shall be 

 shown to have less taxonomic value in this group than in others of 

 the order. The disposition to dorsal elongation of the anterior 

 nasal aperture is a feature so unusual that it should have also 

 weight in distinguishing Chiroderma even after acknowledging that 

 the cleft disappears in old individuals. 




406 proceedings of the academy of [1891. 



August 4. 

 Mr. Chas. Roberts in the chair. 

 Sixteen persons present. 



August 11. 

 Mr. Chas. Morris in the chair. 

 Eleven persons present. 



August 18. 

 Mr. Chas. Morris in the chair. 

 Sixteen persons present. 



August 25. 

 Mr. Chas. Morris in the chair. 

 Seventeen persons present. 



Mollusca from Nantucket, Mass. — Mr. H. A. Pilsbry exhibited 

 four trays and one bottle of land and fresh-water mollusks collected 

 by Dr. Harrison Allen in Nantucket, and stated that with the excep- 

 tion of Helix hortensis no land or fresh-water shells had heretofore 

 been reported from that island. 



The species collected are as follows : Helix hortensis, Zonites 

 (Hyalinia) arboreus, Liinncea columella var. and a small species of 

 the bivalve Pisidium. The two latter are typically fresh-w^ater mol- 

 lusks. Helix hortensis has been lately regarded by some concholo- 

 gists as a native American, not an importation from Europe as all 

 earlier students of our shells supposed. There is much evidence in 

 favor of this view. Dr. W. H. Dall in conversation with the speaker 

 has stated that the shells have been found in pre-historic shell-heaps 

 (kitchen-niiddings) on the Maine coast, at considerable depths. The 

 genitalia of specimens collected alive in Nantucket by Dr. Allen 

 seem to agree very closely with the figures of German and English 

 specimens given by Schmidt and Ashford. They have the charac- 

 teristic dart-sack, the mucus or multifid glands composed of four 

 long ccecJB, etc. Zonites arboreus is not different from specimens of 

 that sjjecies found over the greater part of North America. The 

 specimens referred to Limncea columella are very small, slender, ex- 




1891.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 407 



cessively fragile, and are beautifully decussated by spiral stria? and 

 growth-lines, which cut the surface into little squares. Whorls 8J, 

 length 8"2, width 4*2 mill. ; length of aperture 5*6, width 3 mm. ; 

 color light brown. It is probably a local race, as I have seen none 

 like them from the mainland. 



The Pisidium is a small form which I have not identified specific- 

 ally. A specimen of Ancylus found by Dr. Allen was lost. 



Geological Features of the Meteoric Iron Locality in Arizona. — 

 Dr. a. E. Foote described the remarkable geological features of the 

 locality where he had found meteoric iron containing diamonds, an 

 unreported communication on which had been made by Prof. G. A. 

 Koenig before the Academy at the meeting of June 23rd, 1891. 



Nearly all the small meteoric fragments were found at a point 

 about ten miles southeast from Canon Diablo near the base of a 

 nearly circular elevation which strikingly resembles an old crater 

 and is known locally as " Crater Mountain." He believed this to 

 to be the same as Sunset Knoll figured on the topographical sheets 

 of the U. S. Geological Survey. It is 185 miles due north from 

 Tucson and 300 miles west of Albuquerque. The signet iron was 

 discovered about 30 miles from Tucson. 



This elevation, according to the Survey, rises 432 feet above the 

 plain. Its center is occupied by a cavity nearly three-quarters of a 

 mile in diameter, the sides of which are so steep that animals which 

 have descended into it have been unable to escape and have left 

 their bleached bones at the bottom, which seemed to be from fifty to 

 one hundred feet below the surrounding plain. The rocks Avhich 

 form the rim of the so-called "crater" are sandstone and limestone 

 and are uplifted on all sides at an almost uniform angle of from 

 thirty-five to forty degrees. A careful search, however, failed to 

 reveal any lava, obsidian or other volcanic production. 



Prof. Gilbert had suggested that this so-called " crater " w^as like 

 the depressions on the surface of the moon produced by the impact 

 of an enormous meteoric mass. This view had been supported by 

 other gentlemen, one of whom said that the diamonds at Kimberly 

 probably came from the decomposition of meteorites that had pro- 

 duced the depressions in which the precious stones are found. 



Hemiarcyria clavata Pers. — Dr. Geo. H. Rex described the 

 structure of the capillitium of Heiniarcyria clavata, illustrating his 

 remarks by a mounted slide under the microscope. As most of the 

 descriptions of the Mycetozoa have been drawn from examinations 

 made with objectives of moderate powers, many very interesting and 

 unexpected results in the study of even familiar and well known 

 species may be obtained by the use of homogeneous immersion or 

 other higher power objectives. 



As an example of one of the surprises of this kind, the speaker 

 instanced the common Hemiarcyria clavata Pers. 




408 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



The monographers of the Mycetozoa have described the capilli- 

 tiura of this species as being composed of a network of tubes haviug 

 five smooth spiral thickenings wound evenly around them, at inter- 

 vals equal to about three times the width of the spirals. The 

 speaker had^ examined specimens from many American localities 

 and found in every case that the spii'als were not smooth but were 

 really fringed by a single row of upright, cylindric-clavate, some- 

 times capitate processes of an exceedingly transparent, plasmodic 

 structure, which followed the median line of the spirals and pro- 

 jected rigidly from it. 



These processes equal in height the diameter of the spirals, and 

 are quite transparent, but can be better seen by aniline staining. 

 They stand in rank closely together, on some specimens being 

 distinct and separate, while on others they are so closely ranged 

 that the bases seem almost to be joined together, the clavate or cap- 

 itate ends, however, being distinct. The speaker had examined 

 only American specimens and therefore was not prepared to state 

 that this peculiarity of structure was universal. 



This condition is distinct from that existing in Hemiarcyria leioe- 

 carpa Cke., a closely allied species in which the few scattered spines 

 on the spirals are very different in size and character. 




1891.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 409 



September 1. 



Mr. Thomas Meehan, Vice-President, iu the chair. 



Twenty-two persons present. 



Leidy Memorial Meeting. Through an oversight a serious 

 omission occurs in the record of the meeting held May 12, on the 

 occasion of the death of Dr. Joseph Leidy, late President of the 

 Academy. The first paper read was by Dr. William Hunt, who 

 wrote of the personal history and character of the deceased Presi- 

 dent. The absence of Dr. Hunt's name from the list of those who 

 read papers on the occasion is the more to be regretted as his con- 

 tribution was prepared with loving appreciation and knowledge of 

 his life-long friend. 



September 8. 



Mr. Thomas Meehan, Vice-President, in the chair. 



Seventy-five persons present. 



North Greenland Expedition. Preliminary reports were read 

 from Messrs Peary, Sharp and Heilprin of the operations of the 

 Expedition fitted out under the auspices of the Academy for the 

 exploration of Greenland, which sailed from Bi-ooklyn, June 6th, 

 at 5 P. M. Detailed accounts of the scientific observations made 

 during the voyage will be published in the Proceedings of a_^later 

 date. 



September 15. 

 Rev. H. C. McCooK, D. D., Vice-President, in the chair. 

 Three hundred and ninety-eight persons present. 

 The Ornithological Section reported its organization with the fol- 

 lowing officers: — 



Director, Spencer F. Trotter, M. D. 

 Vice-Director, George S. Morris. 

 Recorder, Samuel N. Rhoads. 

 Treasurer, Isaac C. Martin dale. 

 27 




410 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



Secretary, Charles E. Ridenour. 

 Conservator, Witmer Stone. 

 The third Monday of each month was selected as the time of 

 meeting. 



Prof. Heilprin made the first of a series of communications on 

 tbe physiography of Greenland which was followed by an exhibi- 

 tion by means of lantern and screen, of photographs taken during 

 the expedition by Dr. Benjamin Sharp. 



September 22. 

 Kev. Henry C. McCook, D. D., Vice-President, in the chair. 

 One hundred and eighty-three persons present. 



September 29. 

 Mr. John H. Redfield in the chair. 

 Seventy-three persons present. 



The death of Dr. John G. Lee, a member, September 9, was an- 

 nounced. 



Messrs Angelo Heilprin, J. P. Lesley, Persifor Frazer, Wm. B. 

 Scott and Benjamin Smith Lyman were appointed as the Committee 

 on the Hay den Memorial Geological Award. 



Dr. Wm. E. Hughes and Dr. John MacFarlane were elected 

 members. 



The following were ordered to be printed : — 




1891.] • NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 411 



NOTES ON SOME LITTLE KNOWN AMERICAN FOSSIL TORTOISES. 

 BY DR. G. BAUR. 

 1. COMPSEMYS Leidy. 



The genus Compsemys was established by Prof. Leidy^ in 1856 on 

 a vertebral and costal bone of a tortoise from the Laramie formation of 

 the Judith River. The only character given at that time, was : " The 

 free surface of all the bones is thickly studded with granular tu- 

 bercles, which give to it a shagreened appearance, differing from 

 anything observed in recent turtles." The type of the genus is 

 Compsemys vlctus Leidy. It was figured by Prof. Leidy^ three years 

 later, in the Transactions of the American Philosophical Society. 

 Prof. Cope^ adopted this genus and referred to it Emys ohscurus 

 Leidy, published at the same time with Compsemys victus. In 

 1875 he added Compsemys ogmius Cope from the Milk River.* 



In 1876 Prof. Cope^ established two more species from the Lara- 

 mie of Montana, under the names of Compsemys ivibricarius, and 

 C. variolosus. All the species described to this date were from 

 the Laramie Formation. In 1877 a new species of Compsemys was 

 described by Prof. Cope" from the Jurassic Beds of Colorado, under 

 the name of Compsemys plicatulus. 



The remains of this species were found with those of Dinosaurs 

 by Mr. C. W. Lucas of Canyon City, Colorado ; they represent the 

 oldest American tortoise. The species was based on "portions of 

 both carapace and plastron of several individuals." 



So far the genus Compsemys was only known from the carapace 

 and plastron, from which its characters were taken ; "tortoises with 



1 Leidy, Joseph. Notices of extinct Vertebrata discovered by Dr. F. V. 

 Hayden, during the expedition to the Sioux country, under the command of Lieut. 

 G. K. Warren. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., vol. viii, 185H, p. 312, Phila., 1857. 



^Leidy, Joseph. Extinct Vertebrata from the Judith River and great Lignite 

 Formations of Nebraslca. Trans. Am. Philos. Soc. 1859, p. 152, pi. xi., figs. 5, 

 6,7. 



3 Cope, E. D. Synopsis of the Extinct Batrachia and Reptilia of North 

 Amt-rica. Trans. Am. Philos. Soc, vol. xiv, Phila., 1870, p. 124. 



* Cope, E. D. The Vertebrata of the Cretaceous Formations of the West. 

 Washington, 1875, p. HI. 



5 Cope, E. D. Descriptions of some Vertebrate Remains from the Fort 

 Union Beds of Montana, Paleontol. Bulletin, No. 22, p. 10 (published Nov. 13, 

 1876), also Proc. Ac. Nat. Sci. Phil., 1876. 



^ Cope, E. D. On Reptilian Remains from the Dakota Beds of Colorado, 

 Paleont. Bulletin, No. 26 (November 21, 1877), pp. 195,196, reprinted from 

 American Philos. Soc. xvii, 1877, pp, 195, 196. 




412 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



marginal bones completely united with solid plastron, and the usual 

 dermal scuta, and which differ from Emys in their Trionyx-like 

 sculpture." Cope, p. 195. 



In 1886, I began my researches on the Testudinata ; lately I 

 have examined the collections of the Academy of Natural Sciences of 

 Philadelphia and the Smithsonian Institution, containing the types 

 of Prof Leidy ; also the collection of Prof. Cope who permitted me 

 to study his types at different times with the greatest liberality. The 

 result of my examination is, that Compseniys proves to be a 

 member of the Pleurosternidse, having the pelvis free from carapace 

 and plastron, a complete mesoplastron and a continuous series of 

 neural bones; having also infra-marginals and an intergular. The 

 extensive material of Compsemys plicatulus Cope, in the Peabody 

 Museum from the Jurassic of Como, Wyoming, the same locality 

 which yielded the numerous mammals and dinosaurs, was examined at 

 the same time. Compsemys plicatulus was found to be a very abundant 

 form in this horizon and it was possible to study nearly all the parts 

 of the skeleton. Of the Laramie forms nothing but the shell is 

 known so far, and this shows all the characters of the Jurassic form ; 

 it is therefore impossible, at present, to separate the Laramie and 

 Jurassic tortoises generically from each other. The Laramie form 

 very often has all the elements of the carapace and plastron so 

 strongly united, that the sutures, especially on the plastron, cannot 

 be distinguished. In a short note on the classification of the Testu- 

 dinata,' I have given the principal characters of the generalized 

 sub-order Amphichelydia, Lydekker. These characters were gained 

 fi'om the study of the Jurassic form Compsemys plicatulus Cope. 

 They are :" Nasals free; a squamoso-parietal arch; descending 

 processes of prefrontals joining vomer; stapes in an open groove of 

 the quadrate ; pterygoids narrow in the middle, without wing-like 

 lateral expansions, separating quadrate and basisphenoid ; epiptery- 

 goid well developed and free ; dentary bones distinct. Cervical 

 vertebrae with well developed transverse processes, more in front of 

 vertebra, Avith single articular faces, biconcave ; dorsal vertebrae, 

 sacral vertebrae, with well-developed ribs ; ribs- of sacral vertebrae 

 connected with centrum and neuroid. Pelvis not anchylosed to the 

 carapace and plastron. Epiplastra in contact with hyoplastra, ento- 

 plastron oval or rhomboidal ; a complete series of peripheralia 

 connected with the ribs." 



^ Baur, G. On the Classification of the Testudinata. American Naturalist, 

 June, 1890, pp. 530-536. 




1891.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 413 



Shortly after this a note appeared by Prof. Marsh® in the August 

 number of the American Journal of Science, entitled: "Notice of 

 Some Extinct Testudinata." 



In this paper Compseimjs pUmtuhis appears under a new gen- 

 eric and specific name : Glyptops ornatics, Marsh. The skull, as 

 figured in PI. YII, fig. 1, gives only an idea of the general shape. 

 The description is given in the following words : " A striking feat- 

 ure of this skull is that its entire external surface is elaborately 

 sculptured. This character, hitherto unknown in the Testudinata, 

 has suggested the name proposed. 



"In its general features, this skull resembles that of Chelydra ser- 

 pentina Linn. It is wedge-shaped in form, when seen from above. 

 The orbits are small, and well in front. The nasal opening is di- 

 rected upward, rather than forward. The premaxillaries project 

 downward in front into a tooth-like beak. The nasals appear to be 

 distinct. The maxillaries are deeply grooved below, but show no 

 indications of true teeth. The skull is roofed over posteriorly, as in 

 Chelone, and some other sea-turtles. 



" There is a posttemporal arch. The occipital condyle is nearly 

 round, and has a deep pit in the center. The condyle is formed en- 

 tirely of the basioccipital, as the thin exoccipital plates do not reach 

 the articular surface. The basioccipital processes are prominent 

 and directed backward. The pterygoids separate the quadrates and 

 the basisphenoid. At their union with each other, they are much 

 constricted, but expand in front. The quadrate is stout and curved, 

 and its articular face is deeply notched. 



" The lower jaws referred to this species are slender and much less 

 sculptured than the skull. The dentary bones unite at the sym- 

 physis by a short, open suture and form a sharp, elevated point to 

 meet the decurved tooth-like beak above. The upper border is 

 quite sharp, and fits well into the deep alveolar sulcus of the maxil- 

 lary." 



The Skull. 



I shall go now successively over those characters which are 



not quite correct. It is an interesting and important fact that the 



sculpturing of the skull agrees exactly with the sculpturing of the 



carapace and plastron. The nasals are distinct and meet in the 



8 Marsh, O. C. Notice of some Extinct Testudinata. Am. Journ. Sc, vol. 

 XL, August, 1890, pp. 177-179, pi. VII, VIII. 




414 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



median line ; the same character I have observed in the skull of 

 Toxoehelys from the Cretaceous of Kansas. 



Prof. Marsh says the maxillaries show no indications of true 

 teeth ; but they show no indications of teeth whatever and are not 

 different in this respect from any other Testudinata living or extinct. 



It is stated that " the skull is roofed over posteriorly, as in Chelone 

 and some other sea-turtles." It is a character of all the sea-turtles 

 (Pinuata) to have the skull roofed over, 



" There is a post-temporal arch." I do not know what Professor 

 Marsh wants to express by this. 



" The occipital condyle is nearly round and has a deep pit in the 

 center." This pit is very common among the Testudinata and is 

 found always where the basioccipital meets the exoccipitals. The 

 statement that " the condyle is formed entirely of the basioccipital " 

 is incorrect. The exoccipitals take part in the formation of the 

 condyle just as in Chelydra. If Professor Marsh means by "ex- 

 occipital plates," the upper part of the exoccipital, he is right in the 

 statement that they do not reach the articular surface. They do 

 not reach this surface in any of the Testudinata. 



I shall now give some supplementary remarks on the same skull. 



At first it must be stated that the sutures are very difficult to 

 distinguish, and that I was unable to define them on the upper part 

 of the skull, with the exception of the nasals and the median suture. 

 As stated before, the whole skull is sculptured like the shell. It is 

 somewhat compressed laterally behind, and is therefore broader 

 than shown in Prof Marsh's figure. Seen from the side it resembles 

 very much the skull of Chelydra, but is even more emarginated in 

 the region where the jugal meets the quadratojugal. The whole 

 palatal aspect agrees with Chelydra ; the foramina palatina are very 

 large. The petrosal is not produced in front. The orbit is not 

 closed behind by bone, but is open. The skull as a whole shows 

 characters which we expect to find in the ancestors of Cryptodira 

 and Pleurodira. 



The quadrate resembles mostly that of the Pinnata, the whole 

 arrangement of palate, pterygoid, basisphenoid is that of the 

 Cryptodira, the presence of the epipterygoid is also a character of 

 the Cryptodira and so is the union of the descending processes of the 

 prefrontal with the vomer. But the free nasals, the suturally united 

 dentary bones, and the absence of the production^ of the petrosal 

 are characteristic of the Pleurodira. 



This production is only absent in Dermochelys among the Cryptodira. 




1891.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 415 



The Cryptodira developed from the Amphichelydia of which 

 Compseviys is the best known member, by the union of the nasals 

 with the prefrontals ; the union of the dentary bones, and the 

 development of the production on the petrosal. The Pleurodira 

 developed from the Amphichelydia, by the lateral expansion of the 

 pterygoid bones, the reduction of the posterior process of these bones, 

 resulting in the non-separation of quadrates and basi-sphenoid, by 

 the disappearance of the union between vomer and descending 

 processes of prefrontals, and the disappearance of the epipterygoid 

 as a separate element. 



I have now to discuss the other parts of the skeleton. 



Carapace and Plastron. 

 Prof. Marsh thinks that the carapace represented in Plate YII, 

 fig. 2 was not found with the " skull, and may possibly represent a 

 distinct form." There is not the slightest proof of the latter 

 statement. First, as mentioned above, the skull shows exactly the 

 same (not similar, Marsh) sculpture as the shell ; and second all the 

 nurqerous remains of tortoises from this locality belong to the 

 genus Compsemys, and probably to the same species, Compsemys 

 plicatulus, Cope. 



I. Derma/ Shields or Scutes. {^Scuia!)'^ 



a. Carapace. 

 Vertebral-scutes. 

 Lateral-scutes. 



Supramarginal-scutes (among living Testudinata only in Macrochelys'). 



b. Disc. 



Marginal-scutes, the front one generally called nuchal shield, T called cejvi- 

 caL to distinguish it from the underlying bone (nuchal-bone). The pos- 

 terior one, if single, I called caudal-scniQ. 

 c. Plastron. 



Intergulare (ia). Inframarginalia (Axillare, Inguinale). 



Gularia. Submarginalia (only seen in a great number of 



Brachialia. a young Chelonia spec, from the Galapagos Is- 



Pectoralia. lands [Am. Nat., May, 1890, p. 487] ). 



Abdominalia. 



Femoralia. 



An alia. 



Interanale (only in Cheloniidae). 



II. Dermal Ossifications. 



a. Carapace. 

 Neuralia. 



Posineuralia (the elements between the last neural and the pygale). 

 Pleuralia (generally called costal bones). 



b. Disc. 



Peripheralia (generally called marginal bones), nuchale, pygale. 



*I have adopted the above nomenclature for the dermal shields and dermal 

 ossifications of the carapace and plastron of the Testudinata. (Zool. Anz., No. 285, 

 1888.) 




416 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



c. Plastron. 



Epiplastron=clavicle-(-dermal ossification. 



Endoplastron=interclavicle-)-dermal ossification. 



Hyoplastron ] 



Mesoplastroii ,' , , • i -u i j i -c ,■ 



TT ^, , ^ =abaominal rib;+aermal ossihcation. 



Hypoplastron | ' 



Xiphiplastron J 



In the figure of the carapace given by Prof. Marsh no indication 

 of the impressions of dermal shields is to be seen. I may state, that 

 the shields become indistinct in old individuals, but can generally 

 be seen on the peripherals (marginals). There is a distinct cervical 

 (nuchal) in this genus, the vertebral shields are very broad. There 

 are eight neuralia and two post-neuralia all touching each other 

 and preventing the pleuralia from meeting in the middle line. In the 

 drawing given by Prof Marsh, which is partially restored, only one 

 postneural is given, but in other specimens two such elements are 

 present. Pleurale has a sharp edge on its lower side as in Pleurodira 

 and some Cryptodira. The hyoplastron is united to the first pleural 

 bones by gomphosis ; there is a distinct groove for the union with 

 this element ; the hypoplastron reaches the pleurale 5 and 6 ; on 

 the union of both a short but deep groove for the end of the 

 hypoplastron is found. The plastron is united with the carapace by 

 gomphosis, and reaches from pleur. 2 to pleurale 8. The ends of 

 the ribs project a little over the end of the pleuralia. 



The plastron is rounded behind, and only very little emarginated. 

 The median end of the right mesoplastron is not so broad as that of 

 the left one ; and both the mesoplastra become attenuated at the 

 middle. The Xiphiplastron shows a small pit for the reception of 

 the pubis. The dermal shields agree essentially with Pleurosternon. 



The Vertebra. 



1. Cervlcals. The most remarkable fact in the cervical vertebrae 

 is that they are bicoelous ; like the Pleurodira, they have single 

 articular faces and show no ginglymoid articulations like the Cryp- 

 todira and Trionychia. In a former paper^ I have tabulated the dif- 

 ferent modifications found in the living Testudinata ; it is very 

 much to be regretted that so very little or hardly anything is known 

 about the condition found in the older fossil forms. Chitracephalus 

 Dollo has all the cex'vicals preserved, but nothing is published yet 

 about the condition of the articular faces, which probably show 

 some interesting points and may help to explain the arrangement 



^ Bauer, G. Revision meiner Mittheilunsjen im Zoologischen Anzeiger mit 

 Nachtraegen. (Die Halswirbel der Testudinata.) Zool. Anz. No. 306, 1889. 




1891.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 417 



seen in tlie Trionychia. The splendid specimens of Idiochelys in 

 the Museum of Lyons (France), also have the cervicals preserved, 

 but we know nothing about their structure. 



In the living Testudinata we find the following conditions : — 



I. Ginglymoid-articulations absent. 



a. Only one vertebra biconvex, the second; all the following 

 concavo-convex : Podocnemididae,^ Sternothaeridae. 



b. Two vertebrae biconvex, the fifth and the eighth ; 2-4 convex- 

 concave, 6 concave-convex, 7 biconcave : Chelyiidae. 



II. Ginglymoid-articulations present. 



a. Only one vertebra biconvex. 



1. The second, Dermatemydidae.^ 



2. The third, Staurotypidae, Cinosternidae. 



3. The/owHA, Chelydridae, Cheloniidae, Dermochelyiidse. 



4. The fifth, one specimen of Chelonia Mydas, in the Nat- 

 ural History Mus., Brussels. 



5. The sixth ; not known. 



6. The seventh ; not known. 



7. The eighth; not known in this group but one specimen 

 of Testudo Leithii in the Peabody Mus. shows this 

 condition. 



b. Two vertebrae biconvex ; one of these is always the eighth ; 

 the other may be 



1. The second, one specimen of one of the Testudinidae, 

 species not defined (Vaillant). 



2. The third, Testudinidae, part, Emydidae part. 



3. The/oM?-^/i, Testudinidae, part, Emydidae part, Platy- 

 sternidae. 



4. The fifth, a single specimen of Testudo tabulata Walb. 

 (Smithsonian Institution.) 



5. The sixth, not known. 



6. The seventh ; impossible. 



1 The saddle-shaped articular faces of some cervicals in the Podocnemididae 

 [Podocnemis, Peltocephalus) described by me (Zool. Anz. No. 298, 1888 and 

 Amer. Naturalist, May, 1890, pp. 483-484) have to be considered as derived from 

 a form like Erymnochelys and the Sternothaeridae [Sternot/iaerus, Peloffifdiisa). 



2 This condition I have also observed in a single specimen of the Cinoster- 

 nidae, C.Jlavescens. 




418 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



c. All vertebne convex-concave : Trionyclila} 



d. All vertebne concave-convex : Pyxis. 



From this list we see, that in all living Testudinata the posterior 

 articular face of the eighth cervical (the Triouychiu. perhaps excepted) 

 is convex ; the anterior face of the first dorsal, therefore, concave. 

 In Compsemys the first dorsal has this face also concave; we ought 

 to expect, therefore, thatthe eighth cervical has the posterior articu- 

 lar face convex, but this is not the case. [n the vertebra which I 

 consider the eighth the posterior articular face consists of two portions. 

 The upper one which corresponds to the original central part is 

 slightly concave, the lower one which extends to the median keel 

 on the lower side of the vertebra is convex. The tendency is there 

 to form a convex articular face, but the original concave condition 

 is still visible. The anterior face is slightly concave. The neuroids 

 are elevated, the postzygapophj'^ses are horizontal, very near together 

 but not confluent. In the seventh cervical we have similar condi- 

 tions, but the articular faces are more concave than in the eighth. 

 There are two other vertebrse which I consider as the second and 

 third, both are biconcave, but the neuroids are not elevated. In 

 all these vertebra the zygapophyses are horizontal ; the lower side of 

 the vertebrae are provided w'ith a keel ; the diapophyses are well 

 developed and are not placed entii'ely in the middle," but more in 

 front ; there is no neurocentral suture. All these conditions agree 

 more with the Pleurodira than with the Cryptodira. It may be 

 possible that the vertebrae between the third and seventh may be of 

 different condition, but this is not probable, because even the 8th 



1 It is a very remarkable fact, that in Trionyx foveatus Leidy, from the 

 Laramie, of which I have worked out and studied a nearly complete specimen 

 in the Peabody Museum, collected by J. B. Hatcher, the cervicals show exactly 

 the same condition as m the living; forms ; even the posterior face of the 8th cervical 

 is of the same nature. It is probable that this face has been convex in the more 

 ancient types, as in all living Testudinata, or it may have been concave as in the 

 Amphichelydia. The Trionychia are a very old type, which has undergone hardly 

 any morphological changes since the Laramie in which formation they make their 

 appearance. I am unable to find any generic difference in the splendid Laramie 

 species, from the living American forms of Trionyx. If the skull is known it may 

 prove to be different, but shell, vertebrse and limbs do not allow a generic separation. 

 I may mention here the interesting fact, that the Trionychia are found to-day in 

 rivers and also lakes in which we also find the old representatives of fishes. In 

 North America, the Trionychia are met together with Lepidostens, Amia, Spaitda- 

 ria ; in Africa with Polyplerus and Calamoichthys : in Asia with PsepJuirtis. 

 Already in the Laramie we find the Trionychia together with Ginglymodi. An- 

 other similar case we see in the geographical distribution of the Pleurodira and 

 Dipnoi; South America, Africa, Australia; and we may perhaps yet find repre- 

 sentatives of the Dipnoi or other ancient groups in Papua. 



2 I have seen a similar case in Peltocephalns tracaxa Spix. 




1891.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 419 



cervical, which iu all living Testudinata has the posterior face con- 

 vex, shows distinct traces of concavity. 



The dorsals, saerals and caudals. There are ten dorsals and two 

 sacrals, the number of the caudals is not known. 



The first dorsal is entirely pleurodiran ; all the dorsals have well 

 developed ribs which unite with the pleurals ; the rib-heads are well 

 developed. The tenth dorsal also has a rib, which broadens distally 

 and is suturally united to the eighth pleural which contains the rib of 

 the ninth dorsal. The rib of the tenth dorsal is often found free from 

 the eighth pleural, and in this case this pleural contains a deej) groove 

 for the rib. The rib of the tenth dorsal reaches only to the lower 

 middle of the eighth pleural. On the broad distal ftice of the tenth rib 

 the ilium stands, exactly as in the Emydidae and Testudinidae. 

 The neuralia are only loosely attached to the corresponding neu- 

 roids of the dorsals. All the neuroids are suturally united to each 

 other. The two sacrals have well-developed ribs which are con- 

 nected with both the centrum and the neuroids. In the first sacral 

 the anterior and posterior neurapophyses are well developed, allow- 

 ing not only a motion between the sacrum and the last dorsal, but 

 also some motion between the two sacrals ; the same we find in the 

 Chelydridae. The first sacral is flat behind. I do not know the 

 condition of the caudals. 



From this description it results that the arrangement of the poste- 

 rior dorsals and sacrals is entirely Cryptodiran and not Pleurodiran. 

 To understand this more fully I give a synopsis of the different 

 condition of the posterior doreals and the sacrals in the Cryptodira, 

 Pleurodira and Trionychia. 



I. CRYPTODIRA. 



1. Cheloniidae ; ribs of tenth dorsal well developed ; either (dis- 

 tally) suturally united with the eighth pleural ( Chelonia) or free 

 ( Thulassochelys). 



Dermochelyidae ribs of tenth dorsal developed ; free. 



Chelydribae ; ribs of tenth dorsal generally absent.^ 



^ In one case I have seen a rib on one side, in another case the ribs were pres- 

 ent on both sides but only distally ossified. In the latter case a distinct sutural 

 union took place with the eighth pleural and the ribs even reached the eleventh 

 peripheral, forming a little groove there for union. In the same specimen, 67G of the 

 Peabody Museum, the pygal was divided by a median suture. This case is interest- 

 ing. Riitimeyer states that in Platychelys a distinct face is seen on the eighth 

 pleural for the ilium, but this face which extends over to the eleventii peripheral, 

 is probably nothing but the face for the union of the pleuroid of the tenth dorsal. 




420 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



Staurotypidae; ribs of tenth dorsal absent.- 



CiNosTERNiDAE ; ribs of tenth dorsal absent.' 



Dermatemy'didae; ribs of tenth dorsal present, free. 



Platysternidae ; ribs of tenth dorsal present, suturally united 

 with eighth pleural. 



Emydidae; ribs of tenth dorsal present, suturally united with 

 eighth pleural. 



Testudinidae ; ribs of tenth dorsal present, suturally united with 

 eighth pleural. 



Adocidae; ribs of tenth dorsal present, suturally united with 

 eighth pleural. 



II. PLEURODIRA. 



Sternothaeridae ; ribs of tenth dorsal present, suturally united 

 with eighth pleural. 



PoDOCNEMiDiDAE ; ribs of tenth dorsal present, suturally united 

 with eighth pleural. 



Chely'iidae; ribs of tenth dorsal present, suturally united with 

 eighth pleural. 



III. TRIONYCHIA. 



Trionychidae ; ribs of tenth dorsal present, or absent, when pre- 

 sent free. 



The oldest condition seems to be a free rib on the tenth dorsal ; 

 this may become suturally united with the eighth pleural and become 

 reduced secondarily afterwards ; or it may become reduced before 

 its union with the eighth pleural. 



In the condition of the sacral vertebrae Compsemys agrees with 

 the Cryptodira. I have shown in a previous communication,^ that 

 the sacrum of the Pleurodira has undergone great reductions, and 

 that the sacral vertebrae have at last partially become caudals. 



Nothing of this kind is to be seen in Compsemys, which agrees in 

 the construction of the sacrum with the Cryptodira. 



2 In none of the Slaurotypidae or Cinosternidae have I observed a rib on the 

 tenth dorsal; in these two families, which are very close together and ought to be 

 considered as subfamilies of a single family, to which also the Anostirinae belong, 

 the rib-heads of the eii^hth pleural are always absent, so that the eighth pleural is in 

 no connection with the tenth dorsal. This is a secondary condition, for in Pseudo- 

 trionyx, Dollo, which probably aKo belongs to this group, the rib-heads are still 

 present. 



^ Baur, G. Osteologische Notizen iiber Reptilien. (Fortsetziing III.) 

 Zool. Anz., No. 285, 1888. 




1891.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 421 



We see that the vertebr.ie of Compsemys also combiue characters 

 of both the Pleurodira and Cryptodira. The Cryptodira developed 

 by changing the condition of the cervicals ; the Pleurodira by 

 changing that of the sacrals. 



The Shoulder-girdle. 



The scapula and coracoid of different individuals are pre- 

 served. The scapula resembles the same element in Chelydra, 

 but has a more slender neck. The coracoid is very much broad- 

 ened distally, as in Chelys and some other Pleurodira and the 

 Testudinidae. I may add here some words on the morphology 

 of the scapula of the Testudinata. There has always been much 

 difference of opinion about this element. The scapula consists, as 

 is well known, of two branches. The upper one generally called 

 scapula s. s., and the lower one, which is either regarded as pre- 

 coracoid (Huxley, Parker, Gegenbaur, etc.) or as clavicle (Goette, 

 Wiedensheim, Hoffman). That it cannot represent the clavicle is 

 clear; because this element is contained in the epi-plastron of the 

 plastron as I have shown definitely by the comparison of the 

 Stegocephalia, Proganosauria and Testudinata.^ 



It remains to examine now whether it represents the precoracoid 

 or whether it is a secondary formation of the scapula. 



It is well known that we find a very similar scapula among the 

 Plesiosauria ; a step to this condition is also seen in Metriorhynchns, 

 as described by Dr. Hulke in a late volume of the Proc. of the Zoo- 

 logical Society, which I have not at hand at present. In Met- 

 riorhynchns the ventral element of the scapula, which I have called 

 proscapula,- is very well developed ; but it is nothing but a process 

 of the scapula. If this process becomes larger we have the condi- 

 tions of the Plesiosauria and Testudinata.^ This seems to be the 

 only reasonable explanation. It cannot represent the precoracoid, 

 the opinion of Huxley, Gegenbaur, Parker and others. The pre- 

 coracoid, when it is free and at all recognizable, is placed between 

 the true coracoid and the scapula outside the acetabulum, in the 

 formation of which it may take part or not. In this condition we 

 find it in the Monotremata and the Theromora. If the element 



1 Baur, G. Paljeohatteria Credner and the Proganosauria, Am. Journ. Sc. 

 Arts, vol. xxxvii, April, 1889. p. 312. 



- In Zittel, Handbuch der Palaeontologie, Vol. Ill, p. 509. 



3 In the oldest Plesiosauria, N^othosaia-ns, Lariosaurus, the lower part of the 

 scapula is also very little developed. 




422 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



called precoracoid by Huxley and the others would represent really 

 this bone, it would have a position entirely ditferent; it would not 

 be placed between the coracoid and scapula outside the acetabulum, 

 but inside of it. The ventral process of the scapula in Testudinata 

 and Plesiosauria, which I have named proscapula, seems to be, 

 therefore, nothing but a secondary evolution. 



The Pelvis. 



All the elements of the pelvis are preserved in different in- 

 dividuals. The ilium resembles very much that in Baena arenosa 

 Leid}'. It has the same posterior process as this form. 



The pubis has a very massive pectineal process which stands on 

 the xiphiplastron, the true pubis is a slender element meeting that 

 of the other side in the middle line. The ischium is larger than the 

 pubis, so that at first sight the two bones are easily confounded. 

 The posterior process of the ischium is greatly develo])ed and on 

 the union of this process with the true ischium this element rests on 

 the xiphiplastron. The branches of the ischium meet in the median 

 line but are not united with the pubis. In structure the pelvis 

 of Compsemys is between that of Chelydra and Chelys. The ances- 

 tors of Chelys, which had the pelvis free from carapace and plastron, 

 must have been very much like Compsemys in this regard. 



The Fore Limbs. 



The fore limbs are long and resemble the elements of the 

 Emydidae. The humerus is not so much curved as in the Pleurodira 

 and resembles in shape that bone in Terrapene ; an ectepicondylar 

 foramen is present. The hand must have been very much like 

 that of the Emydidae. 



The hind limbs were of the same character, so far as known ; the 

 femur agreeing with the Emydidae; whether four or five claws 

 were present cannot be stated at present. 



Conclusions. From the foregoing descriptions we see that Comps- 

 emys is wonderfully mixed in its characters. It is half Pleurodiran 

 half Cryptodiran. The group Amphichelydiato which it belongs must 

 be considered as ancestral to both Cryptodira and Pleurodira. The 

 Cryptodira developed through modification of the cervicals and the 

 plastron ; the mesoplastron disappeared successively, and in some 

 forms also the intergular and inframarginals. The Pinnata still 

 contain these elements, but there is no trace of a mesoplastron left. 




1891.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 423 



The Dennatemydidae retain the inframargiiials which become very 

 much reduced in the Chelydridae, Staurotypidae and Cinosternidae ; 

 but none of these forms have preserved a mesoplastron. The extinct 

 Adocidae, which belong to the same group, have lost the mesoplastron 

 as early as in the Cretaceous, but the Jurassic Platychelis, which is 

 probably an ancestor of these forms, still contains a vestige of this 

 element. Another bi*anch is represented by the Platysternidae, 

 Emydidae and Testudinidae. 



The Pleurodira developed from the Amphichelydia, through 

 specialization of the head and the carapace and plastron. One of the 

 living forms retained the complete mesoplastron (Sternothaerus) ; in 

 others it became reduced, Pelomedusa, Podocnemididae ; in others, 

 Chelyiidae, it disappeared entirely. The inframarginals must have 

 been reduced very early, for in none of the living forms do we find 

 these elements ; the intergular is always retained. A true Pleuro- 

 diran is present already in the Cretaceous of New Jersey, Taphros- 

 phys Cope, which is identical, with very little doubt, with Bothremys 

 Leidy. 



The early history of the Testudinata remains as dark as before, 

 even the oldest form we know, Proganochelys, which may be iden- 

 tical perhaps with Chelytherium of H. v. Meyer, gives no clue. It 

 is a typical tortoise. It may have been, in its skull and cervicals, 

 like Compsemys, but we have to wait for new material for the solution 

 of this question. A very peculiar circumstance in the Testudinata 

 is the small number of presacral vertebrse. The original number 

 is eighteen ; eight cervicals, ten dorsals. There is only one reptile 

 with this number, all others have higher numbers ; this reptile is 

 the Triassic (?) Pareiosaurus Owen, from South Africa. Here we 

 have also 18 presacral vertebrae. It may be that the Pareiosauria, 

 which are a highly developed group, and the Testudinata have a 

 common ancestor, but such ideas are nothing but speculations, which 

 may fall at any time after a new discovery has been made, 

 "Whether we may find some day true tortoises with teeth, or whether 

 the ancestors of the tortoises had already lost these elements, is an- 

 other question, which cannot be answered to-day. The oldest skull of 

 any tortoise we know to-day shows no indication whatever of teeth. 

 Something which looks like an indication of the foi-mer existence of 

 teeth is seen in Bothremys of Leidy, of which I have examined the 

 type. In this form we have deep grooves in the upper and lower 

 jaw which look very much like roots of alveoles of a large tusk ; 




424 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



thev are very much deeper than is represented in the figure given 

 by Prof. Leidy. This genus belongs to a peculiar family of the 

 Pleurodira with the following characters : 



Bothremydidae; Vomer well developed; no free nasal bones, 

 dentaries co-ossified, small mesoplastron present {in Taphrosphys, fide 

 Cope). 



This fiimily shows . characters of the Podocnemididae and 

 Chelyidae ; like the true Pleurodira it has no descending processes 

 of the prefrontals meeting the vomer, notwithstanding this element 

 is present. It has no free epipterygoid and there is no production of 

 the petrosal. In the lower jaw only the dentary bones which are 

 firmly co-ossified, and the coronoid, which takes part in the forma- 

 tion of the large " alveole," just as the palate takes part in the upper 

 jaw, are free ; all the other bones are united Avithout trace of suture, 

 a condition present in the Podocnemididae. From such a condition 

 to one in which the lower jaw consists only of one bony complex on 

 each side, as seen in the Mammalia and probably the Theromora, is 

 only a small step. 



The affinities of Compsemys. 



As already stated by Prof Marsh on ray authority, Compsemys 

 resembles Helochelys from the Cretaceous Gi'eensand, and Pleuro- 

 sternum from the Purbeck. Of both I have examined the types in 

 the British and INIunich Museums. 



Peeurosternum has the xiphiplastrals deeply notched ; in 

 Compsemys and Helochelys the plastron is rounded behind. 



Pleurosternum has no nuchal shield (cervicale), in Compsemys 

 and Helochelys this element is present. 



Pleurosternum has the mesoplastron not attenuated in the 

 middle, as in Compsemys, and the union of the two elements is dif- 

 ferent from that in Compsemys. 



Helochelys has the impressions of the dermal shields very well 

 marked, in Compsemys they are not distinct.^ 



The future may show that these three forms are all members of the 

 same genus to which the name Pleurosternum, being the oldest, 

 would have to be applied ; but at pi-esent I think it better to 

 accept the three genera, placing them in one family, the Pleuroster- 

 nidae, as defined by Mr. R. Lydekker.^ 



1 The shoulder girdle and pelvis seem to be very much alike in Compsemys 

 and Pleii7-osterimm. 



2 Lydekker, R., Catalogue of the Fossil Reptilia and Amphibia in the British 

 Mu=eum. Part III, p. 20o ; also Quart. Journ. Geol. Soc, 1889, p. 518, has de- 

 scribed the-^e parts in Pleurosternum. 




1891.] XATURAL SC'IE>'CES OF rillLADELPHIA. 425 



Compsemys is very nearly related to the Tertiary genus Bai'na, 

 which has probably to be considered as its direct successor. 



2. BAENA. 



This genus of which Ba'nia arenosa Leidy is the type Avas 

 established by Leidy in 1870. (Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., p. 123 ; 

 1871 ; p. 228.) It is fully described and figured by Leidy in his 

 Contributions to the Extinct Vertebrate Fauna of the Western 

 Territories, Washington, 1873, pp. 160-169. PI. XIII, figs. 1-3, 

 XV, figs. 1--5, PI. XVI, figs. 8-9. According to Leidy " It partook of 

 characters of the snappers or Chelydroids, the terrapins or Emydoids, 

 and the sea-turtles or Chelonoids." The principal characters given 

 by Leidy are, the " two pairs of gular scute areas, which together with 

 the other scute areas, made seven pairs to the plaston ; " the presence 

 of inframarginal scutes ; and the obliteration of the sutures in the 

 shell. To this character Prof. Cope^ added the presence of a meso- 

 plastron, and referred Leidy 's C'Atstentou, so far characterized by the 

 presence of this bone, to Baena. He also stated, that in three species 

 he observed five costal scuta instead of four. " The accessory one is 

 anterior, and is taken from the usual first costal and first vertebral, 

 both of which are contracted in consequence." Prof. Cope remarks, 

 that "this character is unique in the order Testudinata," but it is to 

 be found in Lepidochelys, {Colpochelys), I'halassoehelys, and Eurys- 

 ternum. He also states that the double intergular exists in Tropi- 

 demys of Riitimeyer. This is not correct ; it is found in Ple-vocheh/s. 

 The presence of fourteen marginal scuta is probably coincident with 

 the increase of the costal scuta ; we find the same in Lepidochelys and 

 Thalassochelys. In regard to the affinities Prof. Cope says: "The 

 affinities of this genus are complex and interesting. It would be a 

 Pleurodire, but for the fact that the pelvis is not co-ossified with the 

 plastron ; nevertheless, there are rudiments of this union in the 

 form of a shallow pit on each side." Baena is placed in a special 

 family " Baenidae," with the characters : — Plastron uniting with the 

 costal bones of the carapace by suture, with ascending axillary and 

 inguinal buttresses ; inter-sternal bones [mesoplastra] present ; inter- 

 gular scuta ; caudal vertebrae opisthoccelous. 



This family is adopted by Boulenger (Encyclopfedia Brit., 9th 

 ed., vol. 23, 1888, p. 457) with the following definition : "Plastral 

 bones eleven, mesoplastra being present. Nuchal bone without 



^ Cope E. D. The Vertebrata of the Tertiary Formations of liie West, Book 

 I, Washington, 1884, )>p. 144-146. 



28 




426 PROCEEDIXfiS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



costiforin processes. Carapace with epidermic scutes. Caudal 

 vertebra; opisthocoelous." 



I have studied, through the kindness of Dr. Brown Goode and 

 Mr. Fred. A. Lucas, the type specimen of Baena arenosa Leidy, now 

 in the .Smithsonian Institution. Different parts, which w'ere still in 

 the rock, were worked out more fully and some new points could be 

 made out. Baena proved to be nearly related to the older Laramie 

 Cjmpseinijs, of which it seems to be the direct successor. The meso- 

 plastra are more reduced, only meeting in a point in the middle 

 line. The sutures in the carapace and plastron disappear in old 

 specimens as in the older Laramie forms ; this of course cannot be 

 considered as a generic character, as we find the same in Terrapene 

 Carolina L. in old specimens. The plastron is thickened acro.ss the 

 axillary and inguinal region, agreeing thus with the Laramie and 

 Jurassic Compsemys. The carapace is emargiuated behind as 

 described by Leidy and Cope. The dorsal vertebrae are co-ossified 

 with each other. There are eight pleuralia very much as in Chelydra ; 

 the rib-heads, however, are not so long as in this genus. The third 

 dorsal forms a sharj) keel below, which also extends to the second 

 and fourth. The tenth dorsal has a distinct rib, which is suturally 

 united distally with the eighth pleural. The posterior face of this 

 vertebra is deeply concave, and the center is entirely circular. 

 The hypoplastrou extends far inside between the fifth and sixth 

 pleurals, very much as in Chelys ; and it is probable that Baena 

 was a good swimmer. The sternal chambers are very much more 

 developed than in Compsemys. The first sacral is very little convex 

 in front, flat behind with a trifling indication of concavity. The 

 second sacral is flat in front, concave behind. The first and second 

 sacrals have well developed zygapophyses ; the sacral ribs are united 

 to both centrum and neuroid. ' 



I am glad to be able to correct a gross blunder which I made 

 some time ago. In my paper on the systematic position of Meiol- 

 ania Oweu (Ann. Mag. Nat. Hist., Jan., 1889, p. 58), I made the 

 following remark : " All Testudinata have the second sacral verte- 

 bra convex behind. There is no exception whatever. Prof. Leidy, 

 it is true, states that ' the posterior articular surface of the second 

 (sacral) centrum is concave ' in Baena. But this is not correct : 

 what Prof. Leidy describes as the posterior articular surface of the 

 second, is the anterior of the first sacral vertebra. The second sa- 

 cral vertebra oi Baena is convex behind, as in all other Testudinata." 




1891.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



427 



To this idea, which is entirely wrong, I was brought by the figure 

 given by Prof. Leidy, not by examination of" the specimen. Now, 

 after an examination of the original, I find that Prof. Leidy is abso- 

 lutely correct in his statements ; the posterior articular face of the 

 second sacral is really concave, and the caudal vertebrae, therefore, 

 have probably all been convex-concave or opisthocoelian. If no bi- 

 ctt'lian vertebra a])j)eared, it is jjrobable that in Compseviys, which 

 is not known yet in this regard, we will find the same condition. 



The pelvis is directly referable to that of Compsemys, but is a 

 step in advance towards the Pleurodiran type of structure. The 

 pectineal process is short but massive, directed downwards where it 

 meets the xiphiplastron. The inner branch of the pubis (the true 

 pubis) is broader than in Cmnpsemys. The ischium shows distally 

 a curved rough face, which touches the xiphiplastron ; there is only 

 a step to sutural union. The ilium is figured by Leidy. The sa- 

 cral ribs are touching the upper anterior part of the ilium ; they are 

 suturally united to each other at this end, the first sacral rib 

 forming the principal portion for the attachment with the ilium. 

 There is a small tubercle on the outer and anterior side of the ilium 

 similar to that seen in the Cinosternidae, but very much smaller. 



The sketch gives the ends of pubis and ischium meeting the plas- 

 tron in Chelys and Ba'ena. In Chelys the impression of pubis and 

 ischium on the xiphiplastron are separated considerably from each 

 other. In Ba'ena there is a special process extending forward, with 

 the tendency to join the impression of the pectineal process of the 

 pubis. 




428 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



Nothing is kuowu about the skull and cervicals of Baeiia. So far 

 I think it best to leave Ba'ena in a special family Baenidae, nearly 

 related to the Pleurosternidae, as proposed by Mr. Lydekker.^ I 

 believe that the Baenidae belong to a distinct branch of this family, 

 which died out without leaving any successors. It is probable that 

 the Clielydridae developed from forms similar to Platychelys ; in 

 which the mesoplastron was reduced more and more, until it dis- 

 appeared ; and in which the union between carapace and plastron 

 became looser, until it became ligamentary. That all forms of 

 Tortoise in which the carapace and plastron are united by ligament 

 (Trio)iyehia included) are derived from forms which had these parts 

 united by suture, there can be no longer any doubt. 



3. ADOCUS Cope. 



The genus Adocus was established by Prof. Cope in 1868, Proc. 

 Ac. Nat. Sci. Phila., with Emys beatus Leidy from the Creta- 

 ceous Greensand as type. The character was (Synopsis Batr. and 

 Kept., p. 232). "Anterior and posterior lobe of the plastron 

 abbreviated, narrowed, and not emarginate. Eight paired sternal 

 bones; twelve sternal scuta, the humerals extending anteriorly, the 

 pectorals and gulars both small. A series of plates, " intermarginals, 

 within the marginals, in the sternal bridge. Rib-heads, i. e., the 

 capitula, wanting in the species whose costals have been examined." 



To this genus is also referred Leidy's genus Baptemys (Synopsis, 

 p. 238), but in the Tertiary vertebrata it appears under the name 

 of Dermatemys. I have examined the type of Adocus beatus Leidy 

 from the Cretaceous of New Jersey, and can say that it agrees en- 

 tirely with the specimens figured by Prof Marsh (1. c.) under the 

 new name Adocus pundatus. 



The specimen figured by Prof. Marsh was put together by me ; it 

 is an absolutely complete shell, both carapace and plastron in splen- 

 did condition, and I am very sorry that the latter has not been fig- 

 ured by Prof. i\[arsh. I give now the characters of Adocus: ante- 

 rior (especially) and posterior ribs of plastron abbreviated, a little 

 narrowed, not emarginate. Eight paired plastrals, twelve sternal 

 shields. Inframarginals as in Pleurodira, not reaching median 

 suture; but intergular divided by a median line. Cai*apace not emar- 

 ginate in front, seven neural bones ; the seventh separated from the 

 sixth by the intervening seventh and eighth pleurals ; one post-neural. 

 Vertebral shields 2-5, longer than wide ; costals 2-4, broader than 



1 Lydekker R. Cat. Foss. Rept. Brit. Mus., Part III, London, 1889, p. 205. 




1891.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 429 



long ; costals 1 , extending over the peripherals ; costals 2-4, jilaced en- 

 tirely on the pleurals, cervical shield very small. Rib-heads of pleura- 

 lia very short, resembling somewhat those in the Cinosternidae. 

 Dorsal 10, with a well-developed rib which is.suturally united dis- 

 tally with the eighth pleural ; pelvis free from carapace and 

 plastron.^ 



Baptemys Leidy is a distinct genus related to Adocus ; it differs 

 by the presence of a complete series of neural bones from both 

 Dermatemys and Adocus; from Adoctis it differs l)esides in the 

 entirely different arrangement of the costal shields. The nuchal 

 has a lateral process, the hyoplastron stands between periph. 2 and 3 

 and is only very little connected with the first pleural. It may be 

 characterized in this way : — 



Anterior and posterior lobe of plastron abbreviated and much 

 narrower, not emarginate. Eight paired plastrals, probably twelve 

 sternal shields ; inframarginals. Carapace not emarginate in front. 

 A complete series of neural bones. All costal shields extending over 

 peripheral bones. 



Agomphus Cojpe (Amphiemys Coi:)e)^ belongs also to this group 

 and is near Adocus. It contains the stoutest tortoises known ; the 

 bones of the plastron of a specimen about a foot long may be 

 nearly an inch thick. In all essential characters it agrees with 

 Adocus, but the anterior and posterior lobes of the plastron are 

 even more narrowed than in Baptemys, the cervical shield is more 

 developed as in Adocus, the nuchal has costiform processes which 

 reach to the second peripheral, piercing the first ; something similar 

 we see in Dermatemys. The sternal bridge is shorter than in 

 Adocus; it reaches from the fourth to the eighth peripheral. In all 

 these three forms eleven peripheralia are jiresent. 



The only living form that can be compared with these tortoises 

 is the Central American genus Dermatemys,^ which represents a 



1 I once believed that the ilium was suturally united to the eighth pleural, but 

 the suture was only the suture for the rib of the tenth dor.-al. 



* Cope E. D. A new species of Adocidae from the Tertiary of Georgia Pal. 

 Bullet., 25, p. 2-4. Baur, G., Osteologische Notizen iiber Reptilian. P^ortsetz. 4, 

 Zool. Ang., 291,1888. 



3 This genus is rare in museums, especially in the form of skeletons; the 

 only complete skeleton I know of is preser\-ed in the Zoological Museum of Basel ; 

 the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia is in possession of a skull ; the 

 Smithsonian Institution of shells of various ages; but I do not know of a single 

 complete skeleton in this country ; there is aho no skeleton in the British Museum, 




430 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



distinct family. But this genus shows considerable differences in 

 the plastron. It is much emarginate behind, and the arrangement 

 of the dermal shields is also different. I follow, therefore, Prof. 

 Cope in adopting his .family name Adocidae for this group. 



This family may be characterized thus : Adocidae; Anterior and 

 posterior lobes of plastron more or less attenuated and shortened, 

 never emarginate behind. Twelve pairs of plastral scutes ; inframar- 

 ginals ; no mesoplastron ; neural bones complete or interrupted be- 

 hind. Pelvis free from carapace and plastron. 



as far as I know. This genus is very common in some parts of Central America, 

 especially Guatemala; but all my numerous efforts to get specimens from there 

 have been so far without success. A similar rare Central American genus is 

 Staitrotypus, of which I know complete skeletons only from Stuttgart, Basel and. 

 the British Museum at London. 




1891.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 431 



THE SUMMER BIRDS OF HARVEY'S LAKE. LUZERNE CO.. PENNA., 



WITH REMARKS ON THE FAUNAL POSITION 



OF THE REGION. 



BY WITMEK STONE. 



The present paper is based upon field notes made during a collect- 

 ing trip to Harvey's Lake in the mountains of Pennsylvania, June 

 15th to 20th, 1891. The trip was undertaken Avith a view to ascertain- 

 ing what species of birds passed the summer in this part of the 

 Alleghanies and to determine what faunal belts were here represented. 

 I am greatly indebted to my friend Mr. Stewardson Brown with 

 whom I made the trip, for assistance in various Avays. 



Harvey's Lake is situated in the northern portion of Luzerne Co., 

 Pennsylvania, just south of the main ridge of the Alleghanies, some 

 nine miles north of the valley of the east branch of the Susquehanna 

 River. The lake has an elevation of 1250 ft. above the sea level 

 Avhile the mountains immediately around it rise 100 to 150 ft. higher. 

 The sheet of Avater is irregular in shape about eight miles in circum- 

 ference and somewhat over two miles in length. 



The eastern side is thickly wooded Avith hemlock forests Avhile 

 the western banks have been cleared in many jilaces for some dis- 

 tance back from the lake. Several low meadoAAs and sAAamps ex- 

 tend back between the tracts of deep Avood, Avhich, together Avith the 

 recent clearings furnish A'ariety to the surroundings. The country 

 about the lake seems diA'isible into three districts as regards the 

 character of the birds. 



(I.) First the deep hemlock wood which is interspersed Avith Birch, 

 Linden, Aspen and Sugar Maple Avith an undergrowth of Laurel 

 and Viburnum. Here Avere found the Hairy and Pileated Wood- 

 peckers ; Wood Pewee, Scarlet Tanager, Red-eyed Vireo, Golden- 

 croAvned Thrush ; Black-throated Blue, Black- throated Green, 

 Blackburuian and Magnolia Warblers, Winter Wren, BroAvn 

 Creeper and Hermit Thrush, while on the edges of the thick Avood 

 Avere the Junco, Canada Warbler and Wood Thrush. 



The Hermits far outnumbered the Wood Thrushes and as a rule 

 occupied the higher and deeper portions of the forest Avhile the latter 

 frequented the immediate border of the lake. Sometimes, hoAvever, 

 they could be heard singing almost side by side. 




432 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



(II.) The secoud district includes the open ground and old clear- 

 ings on tlie edge of the lake and about the houses, and was char- 

 acterized by the presence of the Pewee, Song Sparrow, Chipping 

 Sparrow, Yellow Warbler, Crested Fly-catcher, Kingbird, Balti- 

 more Oriole, Goldfinch, Indigo Bird, Cedar Bird, Barn Swallow, 

 Catbird and Robin. Of these the first four were the most abundant 

 while many of the otherswere represented by only a few pairs. 



(III.) The third district comprises the clearings which occupy 

 mainly the lower country extending back from the meadows, 

 though in some places they reach well up among the higher hills and 

 are steadily encroaching on the forest. Here the most prominent spe- 

 cies were the Mourning Dove, ToAvhee, Chestnut-sided and Black 

 and White Warblers, Maryland Yellow-throat and House Wren, 

 while a few Flickers, Brown Thrashers and a single ])air of Chats 

 were seen. 



As all the birds found at the time at which this trip was taken 

 may safely be regarded as breeding and .settled for the summer, the 

 distribution of the various sj^ecies furnishes one of the best means of 

 ascertaining the fauual areas or life zones which are represented 

 about the lake. The difference in elevation between the lake itself 

 and the toj^s of the ridges immediately surrounding it is so slight 

 that it is not possible to draw a line at any altitude which would 

 indicate a division between a higher or boreal and a lower or more 

 southern faunal belt, though on the southern slopeof the mountains 

 the limitation of certain species to higher and others to lower alti- 

 tudes would undoubtedly be apparent. The fauna about the lake is, 

 however, by no means homogeneous throughout and both northern 

 and southern elements are present, but the former seem restricLed to 

 the deep hemlock forest and the latter to the open clearings. 



The region as a whole may be considered as situated in what is 

 known as the Alleghanian faunal belt, with a strong tinge of the 

 Canadian fauna in the deep forest and a slight Carolinian element 

 in the lower clearings. 



Of the whole number of birds which came under our notice, 

 twenty-nine, or rather more than half of the species, have a wide 

 distribution during the breeding season and occur throughout the 

 Carolinian, Alleghanian and Canadian zones, so that their presence 

 is of no special significance in studying the faunal position of this 

 rearion. 




1891.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 483 



Of the remainder, eight are characteristic of the Canadian fauna: 

 Juuco, Black-throated Blue, Canadian, Blackburniau and Magnolia 

 Warblers, Winter Wren, Brown Creeper and Hermit Thrush. 



Four are common to the Canadian and Alleghanian zones but 

 breed no farther south : Yellow-bellied Sapsucker, Chestnut-sided 

 and Black-throated Green Warblers, and Black-capped Chickadee. 



Twelve do not breed north of the Alleghanian zone, many of 

 them being decidedly more typical of the Carolinian : Mourning 

 Dove, Black-billed Cuckoo, Whip-poor-Avill, Baltimore Oriole, Field 

 Sparrow, Towhee, Indigo Bird, Scarlet Tanager, Catbird, Brown 

 Thrasher, House Wren and Wood Thrush. 



^Nlanv of these were represented by only a few pairs and the 

 Tanager was the only species which could be said to be abundant. 

 But one species, the Yellow-breasted Chat, was typical of the Caro- 

 linian fauna and but a single pair was found. 



As regards the number of individuals, the more northern species, 

 or those included in the first two lists, far outranked those of the 

 last list, so that although the number of species seems nearly equal, 

 the boreal element was really more prominent than would appear 

 from the lists. ^ 



Upon examination of the flora of the region about Harvey's Lake 

 we also find a marked boreal element. It is difficult, however, to 

 designate which species are characteristic of the Canadian zone and 

 which of the Alleghanian as the limits of the distribution of plants are 

 much less clearly defined than is the case with birds. 



The most characteristic plants which distinguish this mountain 

 region from the Carolinian belt which occupies the southeastern 

 portion of Pennsylvania are : 



A7iemo)ie acutiloba. Geum rivale. 



Coptis trifolia. Lonicera ciliata. 



Actcea alba. Sambucus pubens. 



1 It should be noted that the species given in the first list as representing the 

 Canadian element are not the most typical species of this fauna. In reply to an 

 inquiry regarding their breeding range, Dr. J. A. Allen writes me that they all 

 " breed sporadically below what we regard as the southern border of the Canadian 

 fauna and may be considered rather more southerly in breeding range than some 

 of the other Canadian species. At the same time they are not to be regarded as 

 Alleghanian, at least where they occur in numbers." The same fact is true in 

 regard to the plants, as will be seen below. Many of those most typical of the 

 Canadian flora are absent while there are at the same time a number that are 

 hardlv to be considered as Alleghanian. 




434 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



Viola rotundifulia. Vibwmim lantanoides. 



Viola canadensis. Pyrola secunda. 



Oxalis acetosella. Populns grandidentata. 



Acer pennsylvanicum. Popnlus tremuloides. 



Tiarella cordifolia. Betula lutea. 



Ribes lacustre. Hahenaria orbiciilata. 



Circcea alpina. ■ Clintonia borealis. 



Mubus strigosus. Trillium erectum. 



Rubus odoratus. Trillium erythrocarpum. 



Rubus trijiorus. Streptopus roseus. 



Primus pennsylvanica. Taxus baccata canadensis. 



Ilex mouticola. 



A few of these, such as Coptis trij'oUa, Viola canadensis, Tiarella 

 cordifolia, Ribes lacustre, Circcea alpina, Trillium erectum and Tril- 

 lium erythrocarpum, are nientioued by Dr. Merriain in his provisional 

 list of plants characteristic of a Canadian flora' (Mammals of the 

 Adirondacks p. 26) but most of the otliers are doubtless to be con- 

 sidered as Alleghanian. 



Many of the plants most typical of the Canadian flora, including 

 the Black Spruce (Abies nigra) which with vl ^x'es/j-aseri" seems so 

 clearly to mark the limits of the Canadian belt in the lower 

 Alleghanies^ were entirely absent about Harvey's Lake. 



On the whole the character of the flora seems to but substantiate 

 the conclusions already reached from a study of the birds, namely 

 that the Harvey's Lake region must be considered as situated in the 

 Alleghanian zone with, however, a very strong tinge of Canadian 

 forms. Doubtless in the higher parts of the North Mountain just over 

 the Wyoming County line, still more pi'onounced Canadian elements 

 would be found in the flora and fauna, and the same may be said of 

 the Pocono Mountain farther east, where the plants are decidedly 

 more boreal. On the mountain slopes to the south of Harvey's 

 Lake on the other hand, the southern elements will be found to 

 increase as one approaches the valley of the Susquehanna. A list 

 of the birds observed in the vicinity of Harvey's Lake during our 

 stay follows, with brief notes as to their occurrence and abundance. 



1 A few of the plants given in Dr. Merriam's list are common through 

 Southeastern Pennsylvania and New Jersey and can hardly be considered as 

 typically Canadian; such as Impatiens pallida, Pytola roiundifoha. Orchis 

 spectabilis, Cypripedium acaule and Smilacina bifolia. 



2 See Brewster, on the birds of the North Carolina Mountains Auk. Vol. Ill, 

 p. 'J7. 




1891.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 435 



1. Philohela minor (Gmel.). AVoodeock. 

 One seen in tlie open clearings. 



2. Actitis macularia (Linn.). Spotted Sandpiper. 



A few on the shores of the lake. 



3. Bonasa umbellus (Linn.;. Ruffed Grouse. 



Eather common with young, on the edge of the wood. 



4. Zenaidura macroura (Linn.). 

 Common about clearings. 



5. Accipiter velox (Wils.). Sharp-shinned Hawk. 



One or two seen. 



6. Haliaeetus leucocephalus (Linn.). Bald Eagle. 

 One seen. 



7. Coccyzus erythrophthalmus (Wils.). Black-billed Cuckoo. 

 One full fledged young bird was shot near the lake. 



8. Dryobates villosus (Linn.). Hairy Woodpecker. 



The most common woodpecker in the forest region. 



9. Dryobates pubescens (Linn.). Downy AVoodpecker. 



A few in the open ground about houses. 



10. Syphyrapicus varius (Linn.). Yellow-bellied Sapsucker. 



One pair breeding on the edge of the thick wood in a low swampy 

 locality. 



11. Ceophloeus pileatus (Linn.). Pileated W^oodpecker. 



Common in the heavy timber but very wary and hard to approach. 



12. Colaptes auratas (Linn.). Flicker. 

 A few seen in the clearings. 



13. Antrostomus vociferus (Wils.). Whip-poor-will. 

 Several were heard about the lake. 



14. Trochilus colubris Linn. Hummingbird. 



Seen several times among the hemlocks and in clearings. 



15. Tyrannus tyrannus (Linn.). Kingbird. 

 Several pairs in the open ground. 



16. Myiarchus crinitus (Linn.). Crested Flycatcher. 



A few seen about houses. 



17. Sayornis phoebe (Lath.). Pewee. 

 Common all around the lake. 




436 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891 



18. Contopus virens (Linn.). Wood Pewee. 



Very common on the edge of the forest. 



19. Cyanocitta cristata (Linn.). Blue Jay. 

 Rather common. 



20. Corvus americanus And. American Crow. 

 A few along the lake shore. 



21. Agelaius phoeniceus (Linn.). Red-winged Blackbird. 



One or two pairs in the marsh at the southern end of the lake. 



22. Icterus galbula (Linn.). Baltimore Oriole. 



Only one pair seen, in open ground about hou.ses. 



23. Spinus tristis (Linn.). Gold Finch. 



Several pairs in open ground. 



2i, Spizella socialis (Wis.). Chipping Sparrow. 



Common in open ground. 



25. Spizella pusilla (Wils.). Field Sparrow. 



One or two in open fields. 



26. Junco hyemalis (Linn.). Slate-colored .Junco, or " ."now Bird." 



Found mostly on the edge of the forest, but sometimes in the 

 deeper parts. Did not seem very abundant during our stay, though 

 Mr, Brown who visited the locality again on July 4th says that 

 they were then much more numerous. 



27. Melospiza fasciata (Gmel.). Song Sparrow. 



Abundant in open ground. 



28. Pipilo erythrophthalmus (Linn.). Towhee. 

 Common in the clearings. 



29. Passerina cyanea (Linn.). Indigo Bird. 

 Several pairs in open ground near the lake. 



30. Piranga erythromelas Vieill. Scarlet Tanager. 



Abundant throughout the hemlock woods, singing all day long. 



31. Chelidon erythrogaster (Bodd.). Barn Swallow. 

 A few pairs seen about houses. 



32. Ampelis cedrorum (Vieill.). Cedar Waxwing. 

 Saw a few small flocks. 



33. Vireo olivaceus (Linn.). Red-eyed Vir«o. 



Abundant throughout the forest. 




1891.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 437 



34. Mniotilta varia (Linn.). Black and AVhite Warbler. 



Common in woods and clearings. 



35. Dendroica sestiva (Gmel.). Yellow Warbler. 



Common on the borders of the lake but seen nowhere else. 



36. Dendroica caerulescens (Gmel.). Black-throated Blue Warbler. 



Common but found only in the hemlock forest. 



37. Dendroica maculosa (Gmel.). Magnolia Warbler. 

 Rather common in the hemlocks. 



38. Dendroica pennsylvanioa (Linn.). Chestnut-sided Warbler. 

 Abundant in the clearings. 



39. Dendroica blackburniae (Gmel.). Blackburnian Warbler. 

 Apparently common but restricted to the hemlocks. 



40. Dendroica virens (Gmel.). Black-throated Green Warbler. 

 Rather common in the thick hemlock forest. 



41. Seiurus aurocapillus (Linn.). Golden-crowned Thrush. 

 Abundant throughout the forest region. 



42. Geothlypis trichas (Linn.). Maryland Yellow-throat. 



Common but confined to the clearings and open ground. 



43. Icteria virens (Linn.). Yellow-breasted Chat. 



One pair was found in the clearings about a mile southeast of the 

 lake. It was quite interesting to hear this southern species singing on 

 one .side of the road while on the other side at the same altitude and 

 not 150 yard.s away, where the hemlock forests had not yet succumbed 

 to the lumberman's axe, could be heard the song of the Hermit 

 Thrush and the clear trills of the Winter Wren. There are prob- 

 ably but few instances where the breeding ranges of these northern 

 and southern species approach so closely. 



44. Sylvania canadensis (Linn.). Canadian Warbler. 



Quite common in low, swampy ground on the edges of the forest. 



45. Galeoscoptes carolinensis (Linn.). Catbird. 

 Rather common in open ground. 



46. Harporhynclius rufus (Linn.). Brown Thrasher. 



One or two seen in the clearings. 



47. Troglodytes aedon (Vieill.). House Wren. 



Rather common in the open ground and clearings. 




438 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



48. Troglodytes hiemalis (VieilL). AVinter Wren. 



Common throughout the hemlock forest, singing continually. 



49. Certhia familiaris americana (Bonaji.). Brown Creeper, 

 Rather common in the forest region. 



60. Sitta carolinensis (Lath.). White-breasted Nuthatch. 



One or two seen. 



61. Parus atricapillus (Linn.). Bkck-cajiped Chickadee. 



Common throughout. The difference between the note of this 

 bird and its southern representative, P. carolinensis, at the breeding 

 season is very striking and, as suggested by Mr. Brewster, ought to 

 forever settle the question of their distinctness. I have been unable 

 to find any P. atricapillus in those parts of Pennsylvania and New 

 Jersey lying south of the mountains except during autumn, winter 

 and early spring, and I do not think that it breeds in these sections. 



52. Tardus mustelinns (Gmel.). Wood Thrush. 



Found only on the edge of the hemlock wood, not common. 



53. Turdus aonalaschkae pallasii (Cab.). Hermit Thrush. 

 Common. Found mostly in the deeper parts of the forest, 



64. Merula migratoria (Linn.). Robin. 



A few pairs about houses, not common. 




1891.] NATURAL SCIKNCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 489 



October 6. 

 Mr. Thomas Meehan, Vice-President, in the chair. 



Three hundred and seventy-four persons present. 



Papers under the following titles were presented for publication : — 



" Reptiles and Batrachians of Northern Yucatan." By J. E. 

 Ives. 



" A study of the fossil Avifauna of the Equus Bed of the Oregon 

 Desert." By R. W. Shufeldt. 



The death of Charles A. Kingsbury, M. I)., a member, Oct. 3, 

 1891, was announced. 



October 13. 

 Mr. Charles Morris in the chair. 

 Thirty-nine persons present. 



October 20. 

 Mr. Charles Morris in the chair. 

 Thirty-six persons present. 



The death of 'Sir. George Heuston, a member, September 4, 

 1891, was announced. 



The Committee on the Hayden Memorial Geological Award 

 reported in favor of presenting the medal and the interest arising 

 from the fund to Professor Edward Drinker Cope in recogni- 

 tion of his distinguished services to paleontological science. 



October 27. 

 Mr. Charles Morris in the chair. 

 Forty-two persons present. 



The following jiapers were presented for publication : — 

 " Preliminary notice of some minerals from the Serpentine Rocks 

 near Easton." By John Eyerman. 



" The Birds of Southeastern Texas and Southern Arizona observed 

 -during May, June and July 1891." By Samuel N. Rhoads. 




440 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



The following were elected members:—.!. Harris Reed, H. L. 

 Willoughby, W. L. Zuill, Frank M. Day, Wm. L. Baily and 

 Miss E. Cartlege. 



The following Avas ordered to be printed : — 




1891.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 441 



CATALOGUE OF THE CORVID^. PARADISEIDJE AND ORIOLID^ 



IN THE COLLECTION OF THE ACADEMY OF NATURAL 



SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



BY WITMER 8TOXE. 



The family Corvidce as generally understood is a somewhat 

 heterogeneous group leading by gradations from the typical Crows 

 to several other families as the Paradiseidce, Laniidce and Stum idee ; 

 so that it is a difficult matter to decide just what forms should be 

 included within its limits. 



In the following catalogue I have excluded the Australian Piping 

 Crows (Gymnorhinmce.) Most of them seem to belong with the 

 Shrikes and though Strepera approaches the Corvidce it is better to 

 keep it with the other genera than to divide the group as has been 

 done by some authors. 



The remaining forms may be arranged in four sub-families : — I. 

 Dendrocittince the Tree Crows, which seem to lead up to Pica ; II. 

 Garrulince the ]\Iagpies and Jays; Pica representing one extreme 

 and Garrulus the other ; here are included the great series of Jays 

 of Xorth and South America, and a similar group {Cissa and Uro- 

 cissa) from Asia ; Cyanopolius seems to be intermediate between these 

 and Pica. III. Corvince, the Crows and Nutcrackers, along with 

 the aberrant genus Pieathartes. lY. Fregilince, the Choughs, an 

 isolated group which appears to be approaching extinction. 



The Corvidce in the Academy collection are represented by 434 

 specimens, including 109 species and subspecies and 6 types. The 

 whole number of species in the family as here restricted is about 160. 

 The species in the following list are follow^ed by the localities from 

 which the Academy has specimens. 



CORVID^. 



Dendroeittinse. 



Cryptorhi>"a afra (Linn.). Senegal. 

 Crypsirhina variaxs (Lath.). Java and Sumatra. 

 Platysmurus leucopterus (Temm.j. Java and Sumatra. 

 Platysmurus aterrimus (Temra.). 



One specimen with no locality indicated. 

 Dendrocitta rufa (Scop.). 



A series from India, Rivoli collection. 



29 




442 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



Dendrocitta frontalis McClell. India. 

 Dendrocitta leucogastra Gould. India. 

 Dendrocitta himalayensis Blyth. India. 

 Dendrocitta occipitalis (Mull.). Sumatra. 



G-arrulinse. 



Pica mauritanica Malh. 



Male and female from Algeria, Rivoli collection. 

 Pica pica (Linn.). 



Specimens from India, China and Japan. It is quite likely that 

 some of these may represent distinct races but I cannot decide with- 

 out a larger series. 

 Pica pica hudsonica (Sab.). 



Several specimens from the Columbia river by J. K. Townsend. 

 Pica nuttalli Aud. 



California, and Columbia river, the latter from the Townsend 

 collection. 



Cyanopolius cyanus (Pall.). Japan. 

 Cyanopolius cooki Bp. Spain. 

 CissA chinensis (Bodd.). India. 

 CissA chinensis minor (Cab.). 



One specimen of this race, probably from Sumatra. It is much 

 smaller than the Indian bird, and differs in the markings of the 

 secondaries, the black subterminal band being restricted to a spot 

 on the outer web, while the white terminal band runs but a very 

 little way up the inner Aveb. This may, however, be due to age. 

 CissA thalassina Temm. Java. 

 CissA ornata (Wagl.). 



One specimen of this peculiar species, 2)rocured from Verreaux. 

 Urocissa occipitalis (Blyth.). India. 

 Urocissa erythrorhy'ncha (Gm.). 



One worn specimen which seems to belong to this species. 

 Urocissa flavirostris (Bhlh.) 



Several specimens from India. 

 Calocitta FORMOSA (Swains.). 



Several from Mexico, also one from Bell's collection labelled 

 California, which is no doubt an error. 

 Calocitta colliei (Vig.). Acapulco, Mexico. 

 Psilorhinus morio (Wagl.). 



Several specimens from Mexico, including one with a jirominent 

 gray malar patch. 




1891.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 443 



PSILORHINUS MEXICANUS Riipp. 



Two specimens from Nicaragua in the Abbott collection of skins 

 and several mounted specimens including tbe form described as P. 

 cyanogenys by Sharpe but which seems to be merely an individual 

 variation of P. viexicanus. (For full discussion of this subject see 

 Stone, Proc. Phila. Acad. 1891, p. 94. " On the Genus Psilorhinus.") 



The type of Corvus vociferus Cal)ot (from Yucatan) which proves 

 to be a Fsilorhinus is also in the collection and may be distinct from 

 P. mexicanus, as it exhibits several peculiar characters. (See the 

 article just referred to.) 

 Uroleuca cyanoleuca (Max.). 



One specimen from Brazil. This biixl seems to be a derivitive of 

 the Cyanocorax stock, with a square tail, the general resemblance 

 between it and C. affinis is striking. 

 Cyanocorax chrysops (Vieill.). Brazil. 

 Cyanocorax aptinis Peltz. Bogota. 

 Cyanocorax cayanus (Linn.). Guiana. 

 Cyanocorax cyanopogon (Max.). Brazil. 

 Cyanocorax mystacalis (Geoff.). Ecuador. 

 Cyanocorax heilprini Gentry. 



Type of the species, " Rio Negro, S. America." This spec- 

 imen (described by Mr. Gentry, Proc. Phila. Acad. 1885, p. 90.) seems 

 to remain unique. As stated by its describer it unites the characters 

 of the two groups in which the species may be arranged, having 

 under parts for the most part dark purplish and the tail having a 

 white terminal band. It seems to me that we may have in this bird 

 a case parallel to that of Helminthophila leucobronchialis, the 

 peculiar hybrid warbler of North America. At any rate a hybrid 

 between such species as Cyanocorax cyanomelas and C. cyanoj)ogon 

 or C cayanus would, I think, be very near to C. heilprini and the 

 apparent extreme rarity of the latter would seem to strengthen the 

 theory of its hybrid origin. 



Cyanocorax cyanomelas (Vieill.). 8. America. 

 Cyanocorax violaceus DuBus. 



Several specimens from the Rivoli collection including the tyj^e of 

 C. karris ii Cassin. 



Cyanocorax c.?3RULeus (Vieill.). Brazil. 

 Cyanocorax ornatus (Less.). 



Jalapa Mexico from the D'Oca collection. 




444 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



Xanthoura yncas (Bodd.) Bogota. 

 Xanthoura yncas c^ruleocephala (DuBois). 



One specimen without locality. 

 Xanthoura luxuosa (Less.). Mexico. 



CiSSOLOPHA SANBLASIANA (Lafr.). 



Two specimens from the Rivoli collection, one of which has the 

 bill yellow. 

 CiSSOLOPHA beecheii (Vig.). 



Several specimens from Mexico and one labelled " California " 

 doubtless an error. 



CiSSOLOPHA YUCATANICA (DuBois). 



CiSSOLOPHA MELANOCYANEA (Hartl.). Cobau, Vera Paz. 

 Cyanolyca armillata (Gray). Columbia. 

 Cyanolyca turcosa (Bp.). Bogota. 

 Cyanolyca viridicyanea (D'Orb.). Yungas, Bolivia. 

 Cyanolyca nana (DuBus). 



Two specimens from Jalapa, Mexico, D'Oca collection. 

 Aphelocoma floridana (Bartr.). Florida. 

 Aphelocoma woodhousei (Baird.). 



Collected by Dr. T. C. Henry, on the Rio Grande, New Mexico. 

 Aphelocoma californica (Vig.). 



Specimens from California, also one collected by J. K. Townsend, 

 Columbia river. 



Aphelocoma sieberii (Wagl.). Jalapa, Mexico. 

 Aphelocoma sieberii arizonae (Ridgw.). 



Arizona, Rhoads collection. 

 Aphelocoma unicolor (DuBus). 



Specimens from Mexico, D'Oca and Pease collections, al?o the 

 type of Gyanocorax concolor Cassin. 

 Cyanocitta cristata (Linn.). 



Various parts of eastern United States and Canada. 

 Cyanocitta cristata florincola (Coues.). 



Florida, Baker and Rhoads collections. 

 Cyanocitta stelleri (Gm.). 



One specimen from Alaska and others with no locality. Some 

 specimens seem nearly intermediate between this and the subspecies 

 frontalis but this may be due to change of color from exposure to 

 the light. 

 Cyanocitta stelleri frontalis (RidgAv.). California. 




1891.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 445 



Cyaxocitta stelleri macrolopha (Baird.). New Mexico and 



Arizona. 

 Cyanocitta stelleri diademata (Bonap.). Mexico. 

 Cyanocitta stelleri coronata (Sw.). 



Jalapa, Mexico, from the D'Oca collection. 

 Perisoreus infaustus (Linn.). 



Several specimens from the Rivoli collection. 

 Perisoreus canadensis (Linn.). North America. 

 Garrulus CtLAndarius (Linn.). Europe. 

 Garrulus japonicus (Schl.). Japan. 

 Garrulus brandti Everm. 



One specimen from the Altai Mts. 

 Garrulus cervicalis Bonap. Algeria. 

 Garrulus bispecularis Vig. Himalayas. 

 Garrulus lanceolatus Vig. Himalayas. 

 Platylophus galericx^latus (Cuv.). 



Three adult specimens from Java. 

 Platylophus coronata (Raffl.). 



Adults and young from Sumatra, 



Corvinae. 



PiCATHARTES GYMNOCEPHALUS (Temm.) 



One male specimen in fine state of preservation from Guinea, 

 AVest Africa. This specimen is from the Rivoli collection and the 

 stand bears the following " individu type de la planche de temminck," 

 " prepare par Verreaux." 

 Gymnocorax senex (Less.). 



One specimen from New Guinea. 



CORVULTUR ALBICOLLIS (Lath.). 



Three specimens from South Africa. 



CoRVULTUR CRASSIROSTRIS (Rupp.). 



Two specimens from Africa. 

 CoRVus FRUGiLEGUs Linn. France. 

 CoRVUS PASTiNATOR Gould. Japan. 

 CoRvus CAPENsis Licht. Africa. 

 CoRvus CORAX Linn. 



Several specimens probably from Europe. 



CoRVUS CORAX SINUATUS (Wagl.). 



There are five specimens of American Ravens in the collection, 

 one from Kansas, two from California and two from New Jersey, 

 these last from Mr. Cassin's collection. 




446 PKOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



CoRVUS HAWAiENSis Peale. 



Two specimens, the types of this interesting species, collected in 

 the Sandwich Islands by J. K. Townsend. 

 CoRVUS cRYPTOLEUcus Conch. Laredo, Texas. 

 CoRVUS AFFiNis Riipp. 



CoRVUS MACRORHYNCHUS AVagl. 



Specimens from Himalayas, Java and Sumatra. I cannot make 

 the presence or absence of white bases to the feathers accord with the 

 localities, and have, therefore, not endeavored to distinguish the 

 continental race levaillanti from the island form. 

 CoRVus MACRORHYNCHUS JAPONENSis Bp. Japan. 

 CoRvus PHiLiPPixus Bp. Philippines. 

 CoRVUs ENCA (Horsf). 



Several specimens without localities. 

 CoRVus ENCA AaoLACEUS (Bp.). Ccram. 

 CoRvus coRONOiDES Vig. & Horsf. 



Six specimens from Gould's collection ; from W. Australia, New 

 South Wales, Pt. Essington and Tasmania. Mr. Sharpe recognizes 

 two species of Australian crows in his Catalogue, the principal differ- 

 ence between them being in the color of the eye. Mr. Gould's spec- 

 imens bears no data on this point, and as I can find no constant 

 differences in their measurements or coloraticn I refer them all to 

 coronoides. 

 CoRVUS CORONE Linn. 



A series from Europe and also one labelled, Japan. 



CORVUS AMERICANUS Aud. 



A series from New Jersey and Pennsylvania including one of a 

 nearly uniform light gray and another with part of the wings pure 

 white. 



CORVUS AMERICANUS FLORIDANUS Baird. 



Florida, Rhoads collection. 

 CoRVUS CAURiNUS Baird. 



Specimens from Washington and Sitka, Alaska. 

 CoRVUS MEXiCANUS Gm. Western Mexico. 

 CoRVUS ossiFRAGUs Wils. Pennsylvania. 



CORVUS LEUCOGNAPHALUS Daud. 



A series from St. Domingo, W. L. Abbott collection. 

 CoRVUs MONEDULA Linn. France. 

 CoRVUS NEGLECTUS Schl. Japan. 




1891.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 447 



CoRVus DAuuRicus Pall. China. 

 CoRVUs coRNix Linn. 



Specimens from France and Egypt and an interesting melalli^^tic 

 form from Italy. The latter is doubtless the result of hybridization 

 between this species and C. corone as they are well known to inter- 

 breed. 



CoRVUs scAPULATUs Daud. 



Specimens from various parts of Africa and Madagascar. 



CORVUS TORQUATUS LesS. 



Three specimens doubtless from South Africa although they bear 

 no labels. 



PicicoRvus coLUMBiANUs (Wils.). Western U. S. 

 Cyanocephalus cyanocephalus (Wied.). 



Specimens collected by Dr. T. C. Henry in New Mexico and by 

 F. L. Kern on Fremont's Expedition, 1846. 



NUCIFRAGA CARYOCATACTES (Liun.). 



ISTuciFRAGA hemispila Vig. India. 

 NuciFRAGA multipunctata Gould. India. 



Pregilinse. 

 CoRACiA gracula (Linn.). Abyssinia. 

 Pyrrhocorax pyrrhocorax (Linn.). 

 Several specimens, without locality. 



PARADISEID^. 



The Academy collection contains 79 specimens of Birds of 

 Paradise representing 25 species and includes three types. The 

 whole number of species now recognized is about 45. 



I. Epimachinse. 



Ptilorhis paradisea Sw. 



A series from New South Wales, Gould collection. 

 Ptilorhis victori.e Gould. 



One specimen, Tabelled Australia. 

 Ptilorhis magnifica (Vieill.). 



Three specimens two of which are the types of Ptilorhis wilsoni 

 Ogden (Proc. Phila. Acad. 1875, p. 451).' Dr. Ogden afterwards 

 states (op. cit. 1876, p. 182) that the feet upon which he founded one 

 of his characters belonged to another bird. It is strange that this 

 was not noticed before as the birds are distinctly labelled " les pattes 




448 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



sont du Cassicus persiciis." With regard to the extent of metallic 

 feathers on the neck and breast, I think that this is merely due to 

 the manner of mounting ; the specimen of P. magnifica is poorly 

 stuffed and the breast feathers are laid over one another in several 

 layers Avhile in the specimens described as P. tvilsoni they are 

 separated as far as possible and naturally cover a much greater space 

 and the breasts are well filled out, which makes quite a contrast. 

 Seleucides alba (Gm.). Three males. New Guinea. 

 Epimachus speciosus (Bodd.). 



Three males and one female. New Guinea. 



Paradiseinse. 



ASTRAPIA NIGRA (Gm.). 



Male and female. New Guinea. 

 Paradigalla carunculata (Eyd. & Soul.). New Guinea. 

 Parotia sefilata (Penn.). Two males. New Guinea. 

 LopHORHiNA SUPERB A (Penn.). 



One male. New Guinea. 

 Paradisea apoda Linn. Several males. 

 Paradisea minor Shaw. 



A series of males and females from New Guinea. 

 Paradisea sanguixea Shaw. One male. 

 CiciNNURUS REGIUS (Linn.). 



Three males and one female probably from New Guinea. 



DiPHYLLODES MAGNIFICA (PcUU.). 



Three males from New Guinea. 



SCHLEGELIA WILSONI CaSS. 



One male, the type of the species. This specimen is thought by 

 Mr. Sclater to be also the type of Bonaparte's Diphyllodes respublica, 

 and this name has frequently been used for the bird. Mr. Sharpe in 

 his " Catalogue of Birds " refers Bonaparte's name to the Rhipidornis 

 guliebni-tertii (Meyer), and thus adds to the complication. It seems 

 to me absolutely impossible to tell what bird Bonaparte intended by 

 his very brief description " fasciculo e plumis elongatis nuchse rubris " 

 and I think anyone would be justified in passing over such a de- 

 scription as this and adopting for each species the first clear 

 diagnosis which, in the case of the present bird, is that of Cassin. 

 Xantiiomelus aureus (Linn.). New Guinea. 

 Phonygama keraudreni Less. Cape York, Australia. 

 Manucodia chalybata (Penn.). New Guinea. 

 Manucodia atra (Less.). New Guinea. 




1891.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 449 



Ptilonorhynchinae . 



Ptilonorhychus violaceus (Vieill.). 



A series from New South Wales, Gould collection. 

 Aerulcedus viridis (Lath.). 



New South Wales, Gould collection. 

 Ghlamydodera maculata Gould. 



Types from New South Wales, Gould collection. 

 Ghlamydodera nuchalis (Jard. & Selb.). 



Series from Pt. Essingtou, Australia, Gould collection. 

 Sericulus melinus (Lath.). 



Series from New South Wales, Gould collection. 



ORIOLID^. 



The Oriolidce, including the genus Spheeotheres which has been 

 placed here by Mr. Wallace and Mr. Sharpe, comprise about 35 

 species, of which the Academy collection contains 22 represented by 

 97 specimens including one type. 

 Oriolus oriolus (Linn.). 



A series of 14 specimens from Europe and Africa. 

 Oriolus kundoo Sykes. 



A series from India, Boys collection. 

 Oriolus auratus Vieill. 



A series from Africa. 

 Oriolus tenuirostris Blyth. India. 

 Orlolus maculatus Vieill. 



Two specimens \vithout locality. 

 Oriolus chinensis Linn. 



Four specimens from the Philippines. 

 Oriolus melanocephalus Linn. India. 

 Oriolus monachus (Gm.). Abyssinia, 

 Oriolus larvatus Licht. 



A series from Cape of Good Hope. 

 Oriolus brachyrhynchus Swains. 



Several specimens from AV. Africa collected by Du Chaillu. 

 Oriolus nigripennis Verr. 



West Africa collected by Du Chaillu. 

 Oriolus xanthonotus Horsf Java. 

 Oriolus flavicinctus (King.). 



Pt. Essington and Green Hill Island, Australia, Gould collection. 

 Oriolus viridifuscus (Heine.). Timor. 

 Oriolus striatus (Quoy & Gaim.). New Guinea. 




450 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



Oriolus bouruensis (Quoy & Gaim.). Boiiiu. 

 Oriolus viridis (Lath.). 



Five from Rivoli collectiou and three from New South Wales, 

 Gould collection. 

 Oriolus affinis Gould. 



The validity of this species is doubted by Sharpein his Catalogue 

 of Birds, as the British Museum at that time had no specimens. It 

 is undoubtedly distinct from the other Australian species as is clearly 

 shown by the four type specimens in the Academy collection from 

 Pt. Essington. The differences which distinguish this species from 

 O. viridis are exactly as stated by Gould. The average length of 

 bill (exposed) is in 0. affinis r28 ins., and in 0. viridis 1"03 ins. 

 The wing in 0. affinis measures 5"65 ins., and in 0. viridis O'90 ins. 

 Sphecotheres maxillaris (Lath.). 



Three specimens from New South Wales, Gould collection. 

 Sphecotheres flaviventris Gould. 



One specimen from Cape York, Australia, which probably came 

 from Gould. It bears a label giving in addition to the locality, etc. 

 "Sphecotheres new sp." so it may be the type of the species. 

 Sphecotheres viridis Vieill. 



Two specimens from Timor. 




1891.] natural sciences of philadelphia. 451 



November 3. 



Mr. Thomas Meehan, Vice-President, iu the chair. 



Forty persons present. 



A paper entitled " On a new genus of Yespertilionldpe," by 

 Harrison Allen, M. D., was presented for publication. 



The Influence exerted by the Tongue on the Positions of the Teeth. — 

 Dr. Harrison Allen invited attention to the influence exerted by 

 the tongue in determining shapes and relations of the teeth. In 

 hypertrophy of the tongue in the human subject it has been found 

 that the lower teeth are thrown forward and are widely separated 

 from each other. It is reasonable to infer that in lower animals 

 where the tongue is used for prehension that a similar inclination 

 in the tongue to change the teeth to a horizontal, from a vertical 

 position, takes place. In some of the more remarkable examples of 

 the use of the tongue, as for example in the Edentata, the teeth are 

 widely separated from each other, and in most forms are entirely 

 absent from the front of the jaws. Dr. Allen remarked that in the 

 Cheiroptera a similar tendency as above expressed appears to 0})erate. 

 In slender-jawed, long-tongued types, as exemplified in the genera 

 Maci-oglossa and Glossophaga, the teeth are imperfectly developed 

 in the front of the upper jaw and nearly concealed by mucous 

 membrane, while laterally compressed and widely separated from 

 each other on the sides. In the genus Bhynchonycteris the front 

 upper teeth are reduced to minute filiform movable organs which 

 would appear to have no value in the seizing or the preparing of 

 food, but in all probability are simply performing the oftices of 

 organs of touch and as such are used at times when the tongue is 

 protruded to determine possibly its course and direction. 



November 10. 

 Mr. Gavin W. Hart in the chair. 

 Thirty-six persons present. 



On Bows and Arrows and other Implements found among the Arc- 

 tic Highlanders. — Drs. Benjamin Sharp and William E. 

 Hughes exhibited some bows and arrows which they had collected 

 while on the West Greenland Expedition of 1891. As far as they 

 had examined the literature these articles had not been before found 

 in the possession of the Arctic Highlanders. The Nares Expedition 

 obtained an imperfect arrow from one of the deserted settlements. 

 The quiver exhibited contained the bow and arrows. It was made 




452 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



of seal-skin, from which the hair had been removed. The two main 

 pouches, the shorter containing the arrows and the longer contain- 

 ing the bow, were united by a flat piece of skin to which was at- 

 tached a small pocket to hold seal-carriers, etc. A sling to carry 

 the whole was made of raw hide, to which was attached a small 

 handle of w^ood. The pouch containing the bow was open and al- 

 lowed the end to protrude. It measured twenty-seven inches in 

 length. That for the arrows had a movable cap to keep the arrows 

 from slipping out and measured with the latter twenty-one inches. 

 The small pocket was about six inches square. 



The bow consisted of seven pieces. Three pieces formed the 

 length and were made of the antler of the reindeer. On each side 

 of joints made by placing the long pieces together, were lashed 

 two pieces of bone. On the outside (the outer curvature of the bow 

 when strung) was a long thin piece and inside a short thick piece. 

 The lashings were of sinew placed over the joint. The ends of 

 the long piece outside, which extended much over the short piece 

 inside, were secured by a few turns of sinew around the antler portion. 

 On the outside were secured about twelve pieces of plaited sinew, 

 which served to strengthen the bow when bent. When the bow was 

 strung, the outer surface presented three curves, one concave on each 

 side of the middle convex one. The bow W'as unstrung by pulling 

 the cord, which consisted of raw-hide, around toward the outer 

 curvature, so that when the operation was complete the string 

 bent the bow in a direction opposite to that when strung. The 

 length of the bow measured on the string was thirty-one inches; the 

 two end pieces of antler, eleven and a half inches; middle piece of 

 antler, eight inches; outer ])iece of bone over the joint, six inches; 

 inner piece, two and a half inches. 



The arrows were of four kinds, but all had wooden shafts. The 

 commonest kind (a) had the head of one piece of iron or steel, prob- 

 ably a knife blade, the handle having been pounded down thin and 

 driven into the wood of the shaft, with an outside seizing of sinew, 

 made from the muscular coat of the stomach of the walrus. The 

 head in this form of arrow was oval. On one such arrow, secured 

 by Dr. R. N. Keely, was stamped " Dr. Hayes, 1860," and was with- 

 out doubt made from a knife-blade. Another kind of arrow (b), 

 was but a modification of the first, the head had been broken from 

 the "neck" and then riveted or lashed fast to it. A third kind of 

 arrow (c), was similar to the first, except that the head was of ivory 

 instead of iron, and lashed to the shaft by two bevelled edges. The 

 fourth kind of arrow (rf), represented a type quite different from any 

 of the others. It consisted of three parts : — the wooden shaft, a bone 

 neck, in which was inserted and riveted a triangular piece of iron 

 or steel. Measurements of the arrows: — the (a) pattern measured 

 seventeen to eighteen inches in length ; wooden shafts, twelve to fifteen 

 inches; breadth of head, three quarters of an inch ; (6) pattern (one 

 arrow), length twenty-three inches ; shaft, seventeen inches ; length 




1891.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 453 



of leaf of head, two inches; breadth of same, three quarters of an 

 inch; (c) pattern, length, seventeen and one quarter inches; shaft, 

 thirteen and three quarter inches ; ivory head, four and three quar- 

 ter inches; breadth of head, one half of an inch; lap of bevel, three 

 quarters of an inch ; (d) pattern, length, twenty-eight inches ; shaft, 

 fifteen inches ; bone neck, six inches ; length of iron head, one and a 

 half inches ; breadth at base, seven-eighths of an inch ; one and a half 

 inches lost in lap of bevel and set of the head. 



Some of the arrows were feathered, but not all ; never more than 

 two feathers, about five inches in length being lashed to the shaft. 

 These lay flat to the shaft, which at this end in all the arrows was 

 flattened. When the arrow^ was about to be discharged the plane 

 of the feathers would be parallel to that of the string. At the notch 

 of all of the iron-headed arrows and some of the ivory tipped ones, 

 there was a seizing of sinew to keep them from splitting. The re- 

 lease was what is known as INIediterranean release, three fingers 

 being placed on the string, and the arrow held between the first and 

 second. In all probability the bow and arrow are used only in 

 hunting the reindeer, many antlers and skins of which were ob- 

 served in the 2>ossession of the natives. 



A child's bow was also exhibited, measuring on the string ten and 

 three quarter inches. This had only a single curve and was strung 

 by a piece of sinew. 



Two bow drills, such as are used by the natives to drill bone and 

 ivory were also exhibited. The bow of one of these (a) was made 

 of a curved piece of ivory, the other (b) of the rib of the reindeer. 

 One drill (a') was made of a thick piece of wood, in one end of 

 which was inserted an awl; the other end was pointed. AVhen the 

 native showed how this was used he held the end opposite the awl in 

 his mouth, moving the bow with his right hand and holding the bone 

 to be drilled in his left. The other drill (b') was pointed as the 

 first, but the awl was inserted in a piece of bone and this lashed to 

 the wooden handle. There was in addition in one of the drill out- 

 fits (6), a piece of ivory (6") which fitted conveniently in the hand, 

 or could be held in the mouth. On one side a cavity made to re- 

 ceive the drill, so that greater pressure could be exerted thereon. 

 Length of ivory bow (a) measured on the chord of the arc was twelve 

 and a quarter inches; the drill (a'), nine and three quarter inches; 

 wooden part, eight and three quarter inches. Length of bone bow 

 (6), fifteen and a half inches ; bone part three inches, from which the 

 awl projected one inch. The ivory hand piece for drill was three 

 and one quarter inches long by one and a quarter inches broad. 

 The depth of the cavity was one half inch. 



Dr. Sharp also described a kayak procured at Cape York. He 

 called attention to the difference of the model of this one and that of 

 one procured at Godhaven. The kayaks of Danish Greenland, as is 

 well known, are pointed at both ends and have a marked sheer, the 

 bow and stern both peaking considerably ; they are also rounded on 




454 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



the bottom and deck. The Cape York boat is constructed as are 

 other kayaks, of a frame of wood over which is stretched a covering 

 of seal-skins sewed together, the hair first having been removed. 

 The workmanship on the Cape York boat was much more clumsy 

 and heavier than on those of Danish Greenland. The bow, which 

 was the highest part, was pointed, and rose but little from the general 

 line of the boat, and from here it sloped gradually to the stern, which 

 was rounded and its end did not rise above the level of the deck, 

 in fact the boat had no sheer. The boat was much broader in pro- 

 jiortion than the Danish ones and distinctly flat-bottomed, the deck 

 also was very nearly flat. The hatch, or " man hole," was polyhe- 

 dral instead of being circular, and as far as the party could deter- 

 mine no apron, such as used by all the Danish Greeulandeis, was 

 employed. In fact the model was similar to the kayaks in use by 

 the Esquimos of British America. 



The entire length of the boat was eighteen feet and one inch, and 

 fourteen feet on the keel ; from the bow to the forward part of the 

 hatch was nine feet and eight inches ; length of hatch, two feet ; from 

 after part of the hatch to the end of the stern, six feet and five inches. 

 The sides, amidships, were nearly parallel, and measured in breadth 

 about one foot and nine inches. The perpendicular depth 

 at end of keel forward, which was two feet aft of the point of the bow 

 was twelve and a half inches; halfway between the bow and hatch, 

 eleven inches ; at half way between hatch and stern, nine inches, and 

 at the after end of the keel two feet forward of the end of the stern, 

 five and a half inches. 



The Danish kayak is broadest forward of the hatch, and from 

 here it tapers both to the bow and stern. The kayak has not, here- 

 tofore, been mentioned by explorers as being in use among the Arc- 

 tic Highlanders. This term is restricted to those natives living on 

 the shores of Greenland at and north of Cape York to Etah, near 

 the southern edge of the Humboldt glacier. They, however, have the 

 word kayak in their vocabulary, and their possession of boats prob- 

 ably depends on their supply of wood. Dr. Kane's guide, Hans 

 Friederick, remained with the Arctic Highlanders and married one 

 of their people. The winter following was severe and he and his 

 wife were so pressed for food that they were compelled to eat 

 the kayak which he had brought from Danish Greenland. The 

 two kayaks observed at Ittiblu or Xetlik in Barden's Bay, ap- 

 proached the model of the Danish Greenland' boat, and it is probable 

 that they are made after the model of the boat which was in the 

 possession of Hans Friederick. 



Dr. Hughes spoke of an ivory model of a kayak which he had 

 seen in the museum at St. John's, Newfoundland, on the return of 

 the West Greenland Expedition. It had been brought from 

 Lancaster Sound by Captain Jackman, who presented it to the 

 museum. Its shape was similar to that of the Cape York kayak, as 

 well as of those of British America, having the broad rounded stern 

 a nd flat bottom and deck. 




1891.] natural sceences of philadelphia. 455 



November 17. 

 Mr. Thomas Meehan, Vice-President, in the cliair. 

 Thirty-four persons present. 



A paper entitled "On new and hitherto unfigured Japanese 

 Mollusks," by H. A. Pilsbry was presented for publication. 



The deaths of S. R. Knight M. D., a member, November 13 and 

 of John C. Jay, a correspondent, November 15, were announced, 



A New Meteoric Iron from Garrett County, Maryland. — Dr. A. E. 

 Foote announced the discovery of a new meteoric iron from Gar- 

 rett county, Md., about twelve mile? from the P. O. of Lonaconing, 

 not far from the boundary of Pennsylvania. It was ploughed up 

 about three or four years ago by a boy in a field. According to an 

 analysis by Dr. Koenig it contains over eleven per cent, of nickel 

 and cobalt, the proportion of cobalt being very high. 



It is one of the best octahedral etching irons known, being even 

 more characteristic than most of those that have been used for 

 printing directly on paper. Besides the striking reticulated octa- 

 hedral structure it shows a large number of secondary lines regularly 

 disposed with reference to the principal marking. These I believe 

 to be similar to those described by Prof. J. Lawrence Smith, in a 

 Wisconsin meteorite, under the name of Laphamite markings. The 

 original weight was forty-five ounces, but it has been reduced by 

 analysis, cutting, polishing, etc., to thirty-six and a half ounces. 

 The locality is especially interesting as being one of the very few 

 discovered in the middle or eastern states. 



The following is Prof. J. Lawrence Smith's description of the 

 Laphamite markings on the Wisconsin iron, which would apply 

 equally well to the Garrett County Siderite, " The Widmauustattian 

 figures are (a), bright metallic, with convex ends and sides; (6), of 

 a darker color are the other markings, usually smaller, and with 

 the sides and ends concave. 



The material of which these dark figures are composed seems to 

 have enveloped the lighter colored portion, which serves to make 

 the dark lines so beautifully conspicuous. A good pocket-glass will 

 show that the dark figures are striated with lines at right angles 

 to the bounding surfaces. When the figure is nearly square the 

 lines extend from each of the four sides, but when much elongated, 

 they are parallel t o the longer sides. Often these lines 

 do not reach the middle of the figure, where only a confused crys- 

 tallization can be detected. In the interior of the elongated figures 

 the lines are quite irregular, often running together, and showing 

 a striking resemblance to woody fiber. The nature of these mark- 

 ings may be easily understood. They indicate the axes of minute 

 columnar crystals, which tend to assume a position at right angles 

 to the surface on coolin^." 




456 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



The Newest Species of West Indian Land Shells. — Mr. H. A. 

 PiLSBRY exhibited specimens of Helix lately received, among them 

 Helix Caymanensis Maynard, from Little Cayman island. Helix 

 Maynardi, a new species, was described as follows : 



H. (Plagioptycha) Maynardi. Shell nearly-covered umbili- 

 cate, depressed, rather thin. Spire slightly convex, apex obtuse. 

 Surface sculptured with prominent thread-like strire in the direction 

 of growth lines ; pale fleshy-whitish, having a supra-peripheral chest- 

 nut zone and numerous bands of a lighter brown both above and 

 below. Whorls 42, conv^ex, the first smooth ; sutures impressed ; 

 last Avhorl rounded at the periphery, deeply descending in front. 

 Aperture transversely oval, oblique ; outer lip slightly expanded, 

 slightly thickened within ; baso-columellar lip reflexed, nearly 

 straight, the columella thickened by a strong callus within, Avhich 

 is more or less truncated below. Alt. 8, greater diam. 131, lesser 

 12 mill. 



Bahamas. 



This is one of those species lying between Plagioptycha and Hem- 

 itrochus. It resembles the form described by me as H. Brownii in 

 the surface-sculpture, which is decidedly coarse, as in H. Albersi. 

 The brown bands of the surface are visible on the face of the thick- 

 ened and slightly expanded lip. 



Helix (Hemitrochus) xanthophaes. Shell small, subglobose, 

 solid, narrowly rimate. Spire low-conoid, the apex obtuse. Surface 

 shining, having irregular growth-lines more conspicuous just below 

 the suture. Streaked with reddish-chestnut on a pale isabelline 

 ground, having an inconspicuous paler line at the periphery and a 

 dark band just above it, the latter sometimes obsolete. Whorls 4, 

 separated by slightly impressed sutures, the last whorl obtusely 

 angular at the periphery, slightly descending in front. Aperture 

 half-round, oblique ; peristome not in the least reflected, thickened 

 within. Columella steeply sloping, straight, forming an obtuse 

 angle with the basal margin ; its upper two thirds forming a trian- 

 gular reflexed plate nearly concealing the umbilicus. 



Alt. 6?, greater diam. 8, lesser 7+ mill. 



Inagua, Bahamas. 



This is the smallest species yet known of the Hemitrochus group 

 of Helices. It has the same general coloring as the var. of H. vari- 

 ans figured by Dr. A. Binney in Terr. Moll. III. pi. xl\u, lowest fig., 

 but the streaks are of a rich reddish-chestnut. It is, in coloring, 

 very similar to the form of H. Milleri which I have figured on pi. 

 32, fig. 40 of the Manual of Conchology, 2d series, vol. V. From 

 this species, which is its nearest ally, the H. xanthophaes is distin- 

 guished by its much smaller size, smoother surface, more flatly and 

 angularly reflexed columella, etc. 



Specimens of a new Macrochlamys were exhibited and described 

 as follows : 




1891.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 457 



Macrochlamys Stearnsi, u. sp. Shell depi'essed, very bright 

 and polished, straw-colored, subopaque. Surface polished, the gro^Yth 

 lines not conspicuous. Spire but little raised, almost plane, consist- 

 ing of 4 whorls, the last one very rapidly widening. Base convex, 

 concave at the axis. Suture narrowly margined below. Aperture 

 wide-lunar, oblique, silvery-white inside, the white extending to 

 within about 3 mm. of the acute, thin lip edge. Umbilicus very 

 narrowly perforated, the perforation half-covered by a small trian- 

 gular reflection of the columella. 



Alt. 7, greater diam. 1.3, lesser diam. lOj mm. ; oblique alt. of 

 aperture 7, width 8 mm. 



Habitat, Kalgan, North China. (Frederick Stearns, 1891:) 



November 24. 

 Rev. H. C. McCook, D. D., Vice-President, in the chair. 

 Forty-nine persons present. 



A paper entitled "On a Fin-back AVhale (Baljenoptera) recently 

 stranded on the New Jersey Coast," by Edw\ D. Cope, was presented 

 for publication. 



The death of John Turner, a member, August 19, was announced. 



Chapter I of the By-Laws was amended by the addition of 

 Article X : — " No member shall be eligible to the office of President 

 for more than four consecutive years." 



Richard Rossmassler, Elizabeth Head and Harriet Head were 

 elected members. 



The following were ordered to be printed : — 



30 




458 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP' [1891. 



REPTILES AND BATRACHIANS FROM NORTHERN YUCATAN AND 



MEXICO. 



BY J. E. IVES. 



The reptiles and batrachians enumerated in this paper were 

 collected in the northwestern portion of Yucatan and in the low- 

 lands and highlands of southeastern iNIexico during the early mouths 

 of 1890 by the Academy's Expedition to these regions. The Expedi- 

 tion was in charge of Professor Angelo Heilprin, and the writer, 

 who was one of its members, is indebted to him for the opportunity 

 of working up the herpetological collection. 



Tlie portion of Yucatan visited by the Expedition has a dry 

 limestone soil, and the vegetation is consequently more or less 

 dwarfed. The months of February and March, when it was visited, 

 form part of the dry season and very little terrestrial life was ap- 

 parent. The lizards, however, were an exception to this condition of 

 things, being fairly abundant. There are no streams or rivers in 

 Northern Yucatan, the only sources of water supply being nat- 

 ural or artificial cisterns in the limestone rock in which the rain 

 water is collected. It is therefore not a good place for the develop- 

 ment of batrachian life. The two species of frogs and one of the 

 species of toads collected, were found near artificial water-tanks 

 on haciendas. 



The varied character of the southeastern portion of ISIexico 

 proper is too well known for it to be necessary to say anything in 

 regard to it. 



A sketch maj) of the northern portion of Yucatan, published by 

 Mr. H. A. Pilsbry in his paper on the land and fresh water mollusks 

 collected by the Expedition, on page 310 of this volume, shows the 

 localities at which specimens were collected. 



The author wishes to express his thanks to Professor E. D. CojDe 

 for his kind aid in the identification of some of the species enum- 

 erated. 



Yucatan. 

 Chelonia mydas L. 



A skull found on the beach at Progreso. 



This species is captured in large numbers for commercial pur- 

 poses by the fishermen of Progreso. 

 Thalassochelys caretta L. 



A large skull from the beach at Progreso. 




1891.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPIirA. 459 



Sceloporus torquatus Wiegmann, var. mucronatus Cope. 



A female from Tekanto. 

 Sceloporus variabilis Gray. 



A male from the Port of Silam. 

 Cnemidophorus sexlineatus L. 



A female from Tunkas. 



The dorsal scales ai^e mucli smaller than in any specimens of this 

 si^ecies in the collection of the Academy, being only about half the 

 size. The white bauds are very nari'ow and very sharply defined. 

 The median dorsal area which is usually either partly or wholly of a 

 lighter color than the adjacent areas between the light bands on either 

 side of it, is of the same color as these, i. e., nearly black. This median 

 dorsal area is also narrower than in the specimens which I have ex- 

 amined, being of the same width as the areas, between the second and 

 third bands, on either side of it. There are faint traces of a light 

 band along the middle of this area. The unusually dark colora- 

 tion of the back is continued upon the head and the dorsal surface 

 of the base of the tail as dark olive. The head is narrower in the 

 region of the nasals and interna>al, and slightly longer than in the 

 specimens which I have examined. There are ajso seven or eight 

 superciliaries instead of five or six. It is 50 mm. long fi-om tlie 

 end of the snout to the vent, and 160 mm. from the end of the snout 

 to the end of the tail. 

 Ctenpsaurus cycluroides ( Wiegmann) Bocourt. 



Four specimens of this species which is common throughout the 

 dry limestone country of northwestern Yucatan were collected at 

 Tekanto. They agree with the 0. cycluroides of Bocourt^ which is 

 very likely merely a variety of his C. completa^. It is probable that 

 they represent the same form as the specimen from Yucatan identi- 

 fied by Professor Cope in IStiG as C. pectinata of Wiegmann^ 



Anolis, sp? 



A female from Tekanto, allied A. cnpreus Hallowell. 

 Anolis acutirostris, n. sp. 



Head rather acute ; from snout to ear slightly longer than tibia ; 

 about once and a half times as long as broad ; forehead slightly 

 concave; frontal ridges very short; a few scales on the snout 



1. Miss. Sci. Mex. pp. 143—145. 



2. Id. pp. 145 and 146. 



8. I'roc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1866, p. 124. 




460 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



keeled; eyes large; scales of the supraorbital semicircles of 

 moderate size, keeled, separated by two or three rows of scales; 

 nine or ten enlarged supraocular scales, in two longitudinal rows 

 anteriorly and three posteriorly, the posterior ones keeled ; the second 

 scale of the inner row of the supra-oculars much enlarged, sepa- 

 rated from the supraorbital by a row of small scales ; occipital 

 smaller than the ear opening, separated from the supraorbitals 

 by four or five series of scales; loreal rows seven; seven upper 

 labials to below the center of the eye, ear opening large, vertically 

 oval. Gular appendage moderately developed in male; gular scales 

 smooth. Body not compressed. No dorso-nuchal fold. Dorsal 

 scales sub-hexagonal, juxtaposed, those along the vertebral line the 

 largest and keeled, passing gradually into the much smaller granular 

 scales of the flanks; ventrals much larger than the dorsals, sub- 

 circular, feebly keeled. The adpressed hind limb reaches halfway 

 between the eye and the nostril ; 13 or 14 lamellae under phalanges 

 IE and III of the fourth toe. Tail subcylindrical ; covered with 

 large, equal, strongly keeled scales. 



Grayish above, with a pinkish tinge. A few scattered blotches of 

 brown on the anterior portion of the back. Upper surface of the 

 snout brown. Lower surfaces white, becoming a light brown on the 

 under surface of the head and limbs. Limbs and tail with dorsal 

 surface irregularly banded with darker. Dorsal and ventral sur- 

 faces of the body with a metallic lustre. 



mm. 



Length of head (from end of snout to ear-opening), 10.5. 



Width of head, 7. 



Length of body (from ear-opening to vent), 27. 



Length of fore-limb, 16. 



Length of hind-limb, 32. 



Length of tibia, 9. 



A male, collected at Citilpech. 



This species is allied to Anolis cupreus Hallowell, from Central 

 America. 

 Dryophis fulgidus Daulin. 



A single specimen from the ruins of Labna, near Tabi. 



Leptognathus brevifa:!ies Cope, Prcc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1866, p. 127. 



A single specimen from Citilpech. 




1891.J NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 461 



^^YSrSs! H ^ &^^^'"'"' ''^""- ''^^- ^^^^"''"^^ ^^"^- ^""• 



A specimen collected near a water tank on a liacieuda, 

 near Izamal, Yucatan, apparently belongs to this variety of Rani 

 virescens. The dorsal surface is dark grayish brown with still 

 darker color markings; the ventral surface white, more or less 

 mottled with brown. Mottlings very close on the throat, moi-e 

 scattered on the under surface of the limbs, and very faint on 

 the belly. Color markings of the dorsal surface very similar to 

 variety brachycephala Cope. Dorsal surface of the head and the 

 anterior portion of the back darker than rest of the body, almost 

 obliterating the color markings of this region. Head large, broader 

 than long; breadth to length as five to four; contained three times 

 in the length of the body. Diameter of tympanum about two-thirds 

 of the diameter of the orbit. Inter-orbital space about two-thirds 

 as Avide as an upper eyelid. First finger longer than the second. 

 Two phalanges of the fourth toe free. Extended hind limb 

 reaching a little beyond the tip of the snout. Vocal vesicle present. 



Leptodactylus labialis Cope. 



Cystigtiathus labialis Cope, Proc. Amer. Philos. Soc. Vol. XVII n 90 an.] A',.! 



X^■III, p. 269. *■ ' 



Leptodaclyhis caliginosus Broechi, Miss. Sei. Mex., Batr. pp. 17 and 18, PI. V. f]o. i . 



Four specimens obtained near a water trough on a hacienda 

 near Tekanto, Yucatan. They closely resemble the specimen 

 figured by Broechi under the name of Leptodactylus caliginosus. 

 There are two irregular series of spots between the lateral glandular 

 folds upon the dorsal surface, Avhich are more or less confluent. 

 The adpressed hind limb reaches to the eye, or between the eye and 

 the nostril. 



Bufo marinus L. 



Single specimen from the court-yard of a house at Ticul. 



Bufo valliceps AViegmann. 



Three specimens collected near a water tank on a hacienda near 

 Tekanto. 



^ In these specimens, which measure from .56 to 66 mm. from 

 tip of snout to vent, the inter-orbital space is not much broader than 

 the upper eyelid. 



Mexico. 



? Sceloporus gratiosus Baird i Girard. 



A^ young specimen from San Andres Chalchicomula, on the 

 Mexican plateau at the base of Orizaba (8200 feet.) 




462 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



Sceloporus microlepidotus Gray. 



Three males from an elevation of 13,000 feet on the volcano of 

 Orizaba. 



A male from the gardens of Chapultepec, near the city of 

 Mexico. 



A young specimen from a height of 11,200 feet on Iztaccihuatl. 



Sceloporus scalaris Gray. • 



Four males and two females from Penon, east of the city of 

 Mexico. 

 Sceloporus variabilis (iray. 



A male from the town of Orizaba. 

 Anolis sp ? 



A small specimen, labeled " Mexico." 

 Phrynosoma Douglassi Bell. 



A young specimen from Zumpango. 

 Eutsenia insigniarum Cope, Proc. Am. Phil, Soc. Vol. XXII, p. 172. 



Two specimens from Lake Chalco, and two from Lake Patzcuaro. 



The specimens show that this species is somewhat variable. In 

 one of the specimens from Lake Patzcuaro there is a w'ell defined 

 dorsal baud of the width of three scales. In the other specimen 

 from the same locality and in those from Lake Chalco, it is more 

 or less imperfect. The lateral band also appears to be more or 

 less variable ; in one of the specimens from Lake Chalco, being 

 obliterated 



The following notes in regard to the specimens will illustrate 

 their variable features. It will be observed that the specimen 

 showing the greatest amount of variation (No. 4) is a female. 

 Possibly the varietal characters of this specimen may be generally 

 characteristic of the female of this species. 



(1) From Lake Patzcijaro. 



Total length 1000 mm ; of tail 240 mm. 

 Gastrosteges 162. Urosteges 77. 



Dorsal line faintly indicated. Three scales wide; lateral line 

 more or less imperfect. Male. 



(2) From Lake Patzcuaro. 



Total length 905 mm; of tail 215 mm. 

 Gastrosteges 165. Urosteges 77. 




1891.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 463 



Dorsal line well marked, three scales wide ; 'lateral line imperfectly 

 developed. Male. 



(3) From Lake Chalco. 



Total length 780 mm; of tail 170 mm. 

 Gastrosteges 170. Urosteges 78. 



Dorsal line indistinct, indicated by a band of three to five lighter 

 scales; lateral line well marked. Male. 



(4) From Lake Chalco. 



Total length 900 mm ; of tail 195 mm. 



Gastrosteges 157. Urosteges 67. 



Dorsal line not to be distinguished except by the absence of any 

 dark markings upon the three rows of dorsal scales, upon which 

 it is found when present ; lateral line obliterated by the irregular 

 dark markings of the sides. Female. 

 Streptophorus Sebae Dumt'iil et Bibron. 



One specimen from the forest of San Juan. 

 Bufo Monksise Cope. 



Three specimens from Zumpango, about 19 mm. in length. 



Rana Montezumae Baird. 



One specimen from the plateau. 



Amblystoma Mexicanum Shaw. 

 Siredon Mexicatium Shaw. 



N'umerous specimens of the Axolotl were obtained at Lake 

 Chalco. 




464 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



PRELIMINARY NOTICE OF SOME MINERALS FROM THE SERPENTINE 

 BELT, NEAR EASTON, PENNSYLVANIA. 



BY JOHN EYERMAN. 



The serpentine belt and contact rocks have already supplied no 

 less than twenty-one mineral species and varieties, many of Avhich 

 occur very sparingly and are represented, perhaps, by a half dozen 

 specimens of each. This belt appears in Warren County, N. J., 

 and crossing the Delaware River about one-quarter of a mile north 

 of Easton, extends south-westerly, a distance of three miles, thinning 

 out at both ends. The southern contact of the belt is a grayish-blue 

 limestone of uncertain age, no determination having been attempted 

 on account of the absence of fossils ; it seems probable, however, 

 that it belongs either to the Chazy or Calciferoiis. The north con- 

 tact of the belt is formed by a ridge of syenite and gneiss, this 

 ridge forming the Weygatt INIt., which nowhere along the entire 

 extent of three miles attains a greater base width than 2500 to 3000 

 feet. North of this ridge is seen the same limestone, which forms 

 the southern contact of the serpentine belt. 



The following minerals Avere all found in very limited quantities, 

 so that an extended account must be reserved for some future time, 

 only qualitative determinations being made on account of this lack 

 of sufficient material. 



Hydromagnesite : This occurs as a beautiful snow-white 

 incrustation on the talc-serpentine rocks near the supposed south 

 contact. 



Graphite: In small flakes, it is found disseminated through 

 the tale-serpentine rocks at several localities along the belt. It is 

 also found on quartz at Marble Hill, N. J., one mile north of 

 Phillipsburg. 



Topaz : A few small prisms of this mineral have been found 

 near the north contact along the Delaware River. Color, dirty 

 cream-yellow, almost transparent. 



Chalcopyrite : A small sphenoid of this mineral was observed 

 associated with malachite, imbedded in the calciferous talc. 



Pyrite : Cubic forms of this sulphide of iron are quite abun- 

 dantly disseminated throughout the talc-serpentine at many places 

 along the belt. 




1891.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 465 



PsEUDOMORPHS : Some interesting forms of linionite and turgite 

 pseudomorphous after cubic pyrite have been found associated with 

 the pyrite. A pecuhar bronze colored mineral, also apparently 

 after pyrite, was observed, but unfortunately not in sufficient 

 quantity for determination. 



Calcite : Some beautiful specimens of the variety Iceland spar 

 Avere obtained at Sherrer's old quarry, on the Delaware River road. 

 This locality has also furnished some silky-white specimens of 

 aragonite. 



Muscovite: This mica has been found in considerable quan- 

 tities at two localities (both in the Archaean) one near Low's 

 Hollow, N. J., six miles north-east of Easton and on the Lehigh 

 Mt, one mile from Bethlehem, Pa. 



Orthoclase: This feldsj^ar has been found at three localities 

 in the Archaean, (a) near Low's Hollow, N. J., (6) on the Weygatt 

 Mt. north of Easton, (c) near Redington, six miles from Easton, 

 associated with allanite and tourmaline. 




466 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



December 1. 

 Eev. H. C. McCooK, Vice-President, in the chair. 

 Forty-seven persons present. 



A paper entitled " Echinoderms and Crustaceans collected by the 

 West Greenland Exp.edition," by J. E. Ives, was presented for 

 publication. 



December 8. 

 Mr. Thomas Meehax, Vice-President, in the chair. 



Fifty-two persons present. 



A paper entitled " On some ncAV Unionidpe,'' by H. A. Pilsbry, 

 was presented for publication. 



The death of Dom Pedro de Alcantara, Emperor of Brazil, a cor- 

 respondent, the 6th inst., was announced. 



Change of Name of a Genus of Bats. — Dr. Harrison Allen pro- 

 posed that the name Vespenis should be restricted to the Lepidoptera 

 and that the genus of bats that has heretofore been known by this 

 name be in future designated as the genus Adelonyderis. 



December 15. 

 Dr. Charles Schaeffer in the chair. 



Twenty-seven persons present. 



December 22. 

 Dr. Geo. H. Horn in the chair. 

 Twenty-eight persons present. 



A paper entitled " Contributions to the Life-Histories of Plants, 

 !No. VII," by Thomas Meehan, was presented for publication. 



The death of Henry C. Gibson, a member, the 20th inst., was 

 announced. 



December 29. 

 Key. H. C. McCook, D. D., Vice-President, in the chair. 

 The following were ordered to be printed : — 




1891.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 467 



A NEW GENUS OF VESPERTILIONID^. 

 BY HARRISON ALLEN, M. D. 



Through the courtesy of Dr. J. A. Alleu I have recently had an 

 opportunity of examining the type of Histiotus maculatus which 

 was described by him in the BulK Am. Mus. Nat. Hist. Ill, No. 2, 

 p. 195, Feb. 20th, 1891. 



Dr. Allen believed that this striking form belonged to Histiotus on 

 the ground that the shape of the ears and of the muzzle, as well as the 

 disposition of the membranes, were of the same general type while 

 the teeth were the same in number. In my opinion these statements 

 require modification. A minute first upper premolar is to be seen 

 in the rather large space between the canine and the second pre- 

 molar, thus separating Dr. Allen's species from Histiotus, in which 

 a single upper premolar is present. Together with this peculiarity 

 I find that the general characters of the skull, the teeth and the 

 wing membrane are like those of Coryuorhiuus. Indeed, it may be 

 said to be a Plecotian genus without muzzle processes,^ and since 

 with these peculiarities the new form possesses but two premolars in 

 the lower jaw, it is quite distinct. I, therefore, propose to describe it 

 as follows : 



EUDERMA nov. gen. 



Ears three-fourths length of the forearm, broad at tip, united by 

 a small membrane. Internal basal lobe well defined. Internal 

 basal ridge extends nearly the entire length of the auricle. Exter- 

 nal border simple, entire, without scallops. The external basal 

 lobe well defined, simple, not recurved, hairy on outer surface. 

 Auricle greatly constricted opposite base of tragus to which it is 

 attached ; no external basal ridge. Tragus elongate but scarcely 

 narrowed at tip, little more than one-third the length of the auricle, 

 straight or slightly convex on inner border, moderately convex 

 on outer border; basal notch shallow indeterminate, no basal 

 lobe. Muzzle simple, depressed in middle ; glajids on the side 

 rudimental not club shaped ; nostril entire oval without cornii. 



i Dr. Allen informs me that he had no opportunity of comparing this species 

 with Corynorkimts 3,nA naturally infened that it was in alliance with the well- 

 known big eared bat from South America. 




468 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



The auricle is marked with numerous transverse strise at outer 

 two-thirds excluding the tip. The inner border and tip fringed with 

 short hair, a sparse growth occupies the inner surface of the auricle 

 from the inner border of the internal basal ridge. 



Membranes. The thumb disposed to be flexed, the membrane 

 extending to the base of the first phalanx. A distinct hem extends 

 between the thumb and second digit. The second digital interspace 

 3 mm. wide. Metacarpal bones distinct on palmar aspect. Palmar 

 folds at fifth metacarpal two in number. The terminal cartilage of 

 the fourth digit axial. Foot one-seventh jf the length of the fore- 

 arm. Tail as long as the forearm, tip exsert. 



The markings on the membranes are as follows. In the fourth 

 interspace the predigital nerve arises midway along the fifth meta- 

 carpal and the post digital from the distal fourth of the fourth 

 metacarpal bone. Oblique tibial lines four in number. The inter- 

 femoral membrane entire, ample, marked by ten well-defined com- 

 plete transverse lines. Intercostals twelve in number ranging 

 obliquely outward and upward. 



Fur. The admirable description by Dr. Allen may be supple- 

 mented as follows : Black and white hues arranged in a manner 

 unique in Cheiroptera. Dorsum with fur of a prevailing black — the 

 hair being uniformly long and unicolored excepting at the base of 

 the ears, over the shoulder blades, and at the rump, where 

 the hair is white. The clumps on the ear are unicolored ; those on 

 the shoulder blades have hair with basal half, black ; that on the 

 rump is intermingled with black but otherwise the hair is as on the 

 shoulder blades. The nape of the neck, crown and base of the ears, 

 where they join the crown, of a more rusty black than that of the 

 dorsum generally. This arrangement is limited by the low band 

 which unites the ears, the face is sparsely covered with blackish 

 hairs, the lips at the sides are whiskered ; the spaces about the eyes 

 are naked. The under surface of the body with white as its prevail- 

 ing color, the basal portion of the fur everywhere being black 

 excepting where the large ear extends down on the side of the neck. 

 In this region, viz. (the upper half of the neck), the hair is pure 

 white and unicolored and continuous above with the basal ear 

 clumps. The lower half of the side of neck is black throughout. 

 A faint white line extends across the shoulder to unite the clumps on 

 the shoulder blades to that of the ventre. The fur otherwise black 

 at basal two-thirds, apical third, white. The arm at its basal third. 




1891.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 469 



black. The extent of the white portion diminishes from above 

 downward. Membranes everywhere naked. 



Skull. Brain-case, low, quadrate, the height one-half the binias- 

 toid diameter. The metencephalon as long as mesencephalon and 

 pro-encephalon. Sagittal crest rudimentary, does not extend beyond 

 a line answering to the middle of the zygoma — the remaining portions 

 of the posterior temporal crest w'idely separated — the anterior not 

 defined. Dorsum of face-vertex with a shallow concavity which is 

 not sharply defined; oi'bit with iiiHated inner wall and rugose 

 elevated upper border ; lachrymal tubercle marked. Infra-orbital 

 canal short ; the foramen on line with interval between second pre- 

 molar and first molar. Line of the upper margin of the anterior 

 nasal aperture if produced would intersect the second premolar; 

 tympanic bone apparently incomplete above. 



Theparoccipital process bold, trenchant; stern o- mastoid impressi(m 

 deeply concave ; mastoid composed entirely of the squamosal element. 

 Zygoma quite as in Corynorhiims — the squamosal part twice as wide 

 as maxillary; spheno-palatine foramen present, of large size. Occi- 

 pital crest trenchant. Tympanic bone greatly inflated, equals one- 

 third the length of the skull, not touching basi-occipital, or basi- 

 sphenoid ; excavate anteriorly. It extends to a line which answers 

 to the middle of the glenoid cavity. The mesopterygoid fossa as 

 long as one-third the distance from the posterior palatal border to 

 the incisors. The sphenoidal foramen is at the bottom of a deep 

 recess. The coroncjid process is round, small, raised scarcely one- 

 third the height of the ascending ramus ; lower border of the hori- 

 zontal ramus near the angle slightly concave. The angle is raised 

 from the plane on which the mandible rests. Atlas with large 

 foramen for vertebral artery which rests on a mere thread of bone ; 

 transverse process semicircular without spine. In common with 

 other cervical vertebrae the tubercle on anterior surface of body is 

 marked. Ribs twelve in number. Both presternum and meso- 

 sternum keeled. Scapula much as in Corynorhinus. It was muti- 

 lated in the siugle specimen examined. 



Upper teeth. Incisors contiguous, slightly inclined toward the 

 median line, but the lateral tooth separated from the canine by a 

 moderate interval. Central incisor cuspidate with a small cuspule 

 projected midway on the posterior surf;\ce ; a distinct cuspule also 

 arises from the cingulum posteriorly. Lateral incisor one half the 

 size of the central, and cuspidate, with a small cuspule arising 




470 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



from the cingulum on the anterior and a second on the posterior 

 portion. Canine not larger than the second premolar, the buccal 

 surface is abruptly convex. The first premolar is small not wedged 

 in, with complete cingulum. The space between it and canine nar- 

 rower than that between it and second premolar. The second pre- 

 molar as long as the canine and slightly fluted. Molars as in 

 Corynorhinus. 



Lower teeth. Incisors crowded, trifid, i. e., the main cusp possesses 

 a well developed cuspule on each side of the base — the cingulum on 

 the posterior side being large. The first and second teeth overlap 

 for a distance equalling one-half of their diameters. The third 

 incisor retains a posterior cuspule which is larger than the anterior 

 and separated from the main cusp by a wide interval. The canine 

 is small and projects but a slight degree above the incisors. It 

 exhibits a marked cuspule on the cingulum anteriorly. 



The premolars are separated by a small interval. The first is 

 smaller than the s2Cond, distinctly trifid and contiguous to the canine. 

 The second is much larger and trihedral. The molars as in Coryno- 

 rhinus, the apicies of cusps acicular ; the lingual surface of hypo- 

 conid is trifid. 




1891.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 471 



NEW AND HITHERTO TINFIGURED JAPANESE MOLLUSKS. 

 BY H. A. PILSBRY. 



The forms noticed below, and illustrated upon the accompanying 

 plates, were collected in Japan by Mr. Frederick Stearns, of Detroit, 

 Michigan, and placed in the writer's hands for study. So rich in 

 animal life are the Japanese waters, that Ave may still expect novel 

 and beautiful forms of mollusks for many years to come, from that 

 quarter. 



The illustrations are due to the liberality of Mr. Stearns. 



Thylacodes medusae n. sp. PI. XVII, XVIII. 



A large species, nearly always living in clusters, attached gener- 

 ally to shells. The young form an irregular spiral, the whorls of 

 which rest prone upon the base of attachment. As the tube increases 

 in diameter it becomes cariuated on the lower outer portion, or the 

 part corresponding to the " shoulder" of the whorl in a regularly 

 spiral gasteropod. At this stage the whorls become more laxly 

 coiled, and when not too closely clustered, present the appearance of 

 such planorboid forms as T. niasier Dh., T. atra Rouss, etc. This 

 stage is shown in the cluster pictured on pi. XVI. The subsequent 

 growth is erect and but slightly spiral, the tube generally contracting 

 slightly in diameter, and cylindrical in form. The sculpture consists 

 of narrow longitudinal cords at rather wide intervals, the spaces 

 being occupied by a variable number of threads, (usually three) of 

 which the middle one is larger. Irregular growth-lines crenulate 

 the longitudinals. This sculpture is normally developed upon all 

 sides of the tube. Upon the latter part of the free portion it is often 

 subobsolete. 



The aperture is circular in adult shells, at right angles to the tube, 

 and white Avithin. The external surface is of a pale brown tint. 



No internal septa were found in numerous broken specimens; and 

 although the shells were apparently alive when collected, no oper- 

 cula were preserved in them, the absence of this organ being one of 

 the characteristics of Thylacodes. 



The dimensions may be seen in the figures, which are of natural 

 size. The diameter of the tubes at the aperture averages 13 mm. 



The embryonic shell, at the time it becomes attached, is bulimiform, 

 glossy and smooth ; lying upon its side. The first whorl formed 




472 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [189k 



after attachment takes place is perfectly plauorboid, showing the 

 nuclear shell in the center. 



Locality, Saruga Coast, Japan. 



This species differs from Vermetus imbricatus Dkr.^ in lacking 

 the imbricating growth-striae of that form. 



V. imbricatus as figured by Dunker is a plauorboid form, like V. 

 masier Dh., atra Rouss,'etc., but it may possibly be an immature 

 shell. 



T. medusce is apparently allied to V. polyphragmus Sassi, V. denti- 

 feriis Lam. and T". novce-hollandice Rouss., but it differs from them 

 in having the sculpture developed over the whole circumference of 

 the tube, not confiubd to its upper surface, or the part corresponding 

 to the base of the shell in ordinary gasteropods, as it is in those 

 species. 



The literature of Vermetidie is in a most confused state at present, 

 the labors of Morch being as remarkable for their obscurity as for 

 their extent, and that is considerable, 

 Terebra Stearnsii n. sp. PI. XIX, fig. 5. 



Shell very large, slender and elongated. 22 Avhorls remaining in 

 the specimen described, the upper portion, comprising probably 

 about one-fourth of the entire length, being broken off. The whorls 

 are flattened, having a narrow but prominent shoulder immediately 

 below the sutures, causing the spire to appear narrowly terraced. 

 The sculpture on the body-whorl consists of a narrow, deeply im- 

 pressed spiral groove, revolving at one-third of the distance between 

 suture and peripheral angle, another less impressed groove below it 

 at the lower third, the spaces limited by these two grooves being 

 smooth save for slight growth-lines. Midway between the lower 

 groove mentioned and the peripheral angle there is a still deeper 

 groove, with one or two impressed spiral lines on each side of it. 

 The base has numerous (about 15) unequal spiral grooves. 



The color is soiled whitish with a series of brown spots upon the 

 middle and lower part of each whorl. The aperture is small ; col- 

 umella not obviously plicate, nearly vertical above, strongly curving 

 to the left below. Alt. of the decollated specimen 105, greatest 

 breadth 13i mm.; alt. of aperture 12, bi'eadth 7 mm. Japan; 

 exact locality unknown. 



1 V. imbricatus has been renamed Thylacodes adamsii by Morch, Proc. Zool. 

 Soc. Lond. 1865, p. 99. 




1891.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 473 



Siphonalia fuscolineata Pse. PI, XIX, fig. 4. 



This is placed among the " unfigured and undetermined " species in 

 Tryon's monograph of the genus. It is allied to S. loiigirostris Dkr., 

 but has a longer spire and much smaller aperture. 



Two specimens were collected in the Inland Sea of Japan. 

 Astralium Japonicum Dunker. PI, XIX, figs. 6, 7, 8. 



The specimens of this species collected by ^Ir. Stearns attain 

 dimensions far exceeding those of the original specimens, the largest 

 measuring 160 mm. diam. The operculum shows this species 

 to belong to the section Pachypoma Gray, as that section is restricted 

 in my monograph of Astralium.^ The operculum is excessively like 

 that of Astralium iiiequale, the type and hitherto the only known 

 species of the section Pachypoma. 



The specimens were collected on the southeast coast of Province 

 of Kii, 



It is very probable that Astralium Wardii Baker, recently de- 

 scribed, is merely a depressed specimen of ^. Japonicum. 

 Vola puncticulata Dunker. PI. XIX, figs. 1, 2, 3. 



The specimen is figured to show the characters of this beautiful 

 species when mature. Bunker's original examples, figured in the 

 Ind. Moll. Mar. Jap., pi. xi, figs. 10, 11, being less than half grown. 

 It is perhaps the most beautiful species of Vola, a group remarkable 

 for beauty. 



Maorochlamys Stearnsii Pilsbry. PI. XIX, figs, 9, 10, ii. 



Figures of this species are here given. The description will be 

 found on p. 457 of this volume. 



^Manual of Conchology, X, p. 221, 242, 1888. 



31 




474 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



A FIN-BACK WHALE ( BALSINOPTERA ) RECENTLY STRANDED 

 ON THE NEW JERSEY COAST. 



BY E. D. COPE. 



lu the month of October of the year 1891, the carcass of a fin-back 

 whale came ashore on the beach in front of the town of Ocean City, 

 Cape May County, New Jersey. The attention of some of the 

 members of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia hav- 

 ing been called to the circumstance, Professor Angelo Heilprin w^as 

 authorized to take measures to secure the skeleton for the museum of 

 the Academy. He was successful in obtaining possession of the 

 carcass, and with the aid of Dr. S. G. Dixon of the Academy, was 

 enabled to prepare the skeleton for tran.sportation. This work was 

 supervised by Mr. J. C. Ives of the Academy, to whom I am espe- 

 cially indebted for the accompanying description of the external 

 appearance of the monster. 



An examination of the animal on the beach, and a subsequent 

 study of the skeleton on the premises of the Academy of Natural 

 Sciences, has shown that it presents characters of considerable interest 

 to the naturalist. Its first ribs are simple, which circumstance refers 

 it to the true genus Balcpjioptera of Gray and Flower, as distinguished 

 from Sibbaldius of these authors. Whether the deeply bifurcate 

 rib characteristic of the latter genus is an abnormality or not, as main- 

 tained by Prof Van Beneden, will claim attention at another time. 

 Meanwhile I give the following description of the external char- 

 acters, drawn up by ^Ir. J. C. Ives. 



" The following measurements were made hx Mr. F. W. True and 

 myself. The whale was lying on its back, somewhat turned to the left 

 side and partially buried in the sand. The measurements of the paired 

 organs were made on the right side which was better exposed than 

 the left. 



Length from the tip of the snout to the hinder border of the 

 tail along the middle line of the body, 66 ft., 11 in. 



From the symphysis of the lower jaw to the angle of the mouth, 

 along the curve, 16 ft., 10 in. 



Distance of the ear behind the angle of the mouth, 3 ft., 6 in. 



Length of the ear slit, 2? in. 



Length of the flipper along the central line from the shoulder to 

 the tip, 7 ft., 4 in. 




1891.] NATURAL SCIE>XES OF PHILADELPHIA. 475 



Along the lower margin, 8 ft., 3 in. 



Along the upper margin, 6 ft. 



Greatest width of the flipper, 2 ft., 2 in. 



Distance from the anus to the navel, 10 ft. 



Distance from the end of the tail to the anus, 20 ft. 



Length of the dorsal fin, 1 foot. 



Height of the same, 5 in. 



Distance of the dorsal fin from the insertion of the flukes of the 

 tail, 12 ft., 5 in. 



Distance from the end of the tail to the end of the corrugations 

 on the belly, 28 ft. 



Width of the tail across the flukes, 14 ft., 10 in. 



There were about 86 corrugations on the belly. 



There were no humps behind the dorsal fin nor within eight 

 feet of the dorsal ridge exposed in front of it. 



The epidermis of the entire exposed jwrtion with the exception of 

 the under surface of the flippers was purplish slate color, mottled 

 with large blotches of a lighter tint of the same color ; on the under 

 surface of the belly these lighter blotches were streaked with white. 

 The under surface of the flippers, i. e., the surface next the body, was 

 white. Xearly all the epidermis of the flukes had been torn off) but 

 it appeared to have been of the general color of the body." 



From the preceding it may be learned that the pectoral fin is about 

 one-ninth the total length, and that the dorsal fin marks a point 

 about one-fourth the length from the posterior border of the flukes 

 to the end of the muzzle. In both these characters it agrees with 

 BalcBtioptera viusculus. In the dark color of the inferior surface 

 it differs from this species, and agrees with B. sibhaldii Gray. 

 In the white color of the internal face of the pectoral it agrees with 

 the specimen described by me, under the name of Sibbaldius tectiro- 

 stris,^ and differs from the individual described by Professor T. 

 Dwight" as Balcenoptera viusculus which came ashore near Boston, 

 Mass. The under side of the pectoral is described as being black in 

 this whale. 



An examination of the osteology gives the following results. 

 Vertebrae ; C. 7 ; D. 15 ; L. 17 ; C.23 ; total 62. Of the cervicals 

 only the axis has an entire vertebrarterial foramen, and this is 

 enclosed by a wide confluence of the diapophysis and parapophysis. 



1 Proceedings Academy Nat. Sci. Philada. 1869, p. 17. 

 » Memoirs Boston Soc. Nat. History, II, 1871, p. 203. 




476 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



The (liapophyses are distinct in all of the other cervical?, being 

 slightly decurved and rather elongate, but they do not approach the 

 parapophyses. The parapojihyses are long on the sixth cervical, but 

 are totally wanting on the seventh. There are fifteen pairs of ribs. 

 Of these the heads of the first pair are absolutely simple; those of 

 the second, third and fourth, have a well developed head, besides the 

 tuberculum. The scapula has the usual antero-postei'ior elongation, 

 Avith well developed acromion and coracoid. The humerus still has 

 the head in the distinct epiphysial stage. The phalanges, commenc- 

 ing with the internal digit (no. 2) number, 4-6-5-3. These were 

 carefully preserved by Mr. Ives, and the number is probably correct, 

 with a possibility that there may have been six phalanges in the 

 fourth digit. 



The maxillaries and premaxillaries were removed from the skull 

 in order to facilitate their transportation. The former have the 

 acuminate outline of those of M. musculm, rather than that of 

 M. sihbaldii. The nasal bones have a parallogrammic superior 

 outline, but are very convex in the fore and aft direction, the surface 

 descending forwards. They are flat posteriorly ; at the middle the 

 adjacent edges are raised, but at the distal end the external edges 

 are raised, so that the superior surface is concave in the transverse 

 direction. The mandibular ramus is quite convex outwards, and 

 the coronoid process is very elevated. The angle is separated from 

 the condyle by an oblique groove, but it does not project beyond it. 

 The otic bulla is flat on the internal side, and convex on the 

 external side, the convexity separated by a groove from the internal 

 edge. 



Measurements. 



cm. 

 Length of maxillary above, on premaxillary edge ; 376 

 Length from posterior end of maxillary near nasals to pos- 

 terior angle of squamosal ; 150 

 Width of maxillary at middle; 50.5 

 Width of premaxillary at middle; 19 

 Mandibular ramus ; length on curve; 500.5 

 Mandibular ramus; depth of condyle ; 37.8 

 Mandibular ramus; depth at coronoid; 77 

 Mandibular ramus; depth at middle of length ; 33 

 Mandibularjramus; width at middle of length ; 21 

 Mandibular ramus; depth at distal end; 29 




1891.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 477 



f longitudinal ; 14 



Otic bulla ; diameters -^ transverse; 7.2 



[vertical at meatus ; 10 



c, , ,. , f anteroposterior ; 97.5 

 bcapula; diameters-^ ,. \ 



^ (vertical; 78 



Atlas, transverse diameter (total) ; 83 



A • , T , (vertical; 27 



Axis, centrum diameters < 



I transverse ; 38 



Diameters diaparapophysis i ' 



^ i i ^ (^ transverse ; 30 



-IT , 1 ^ . , , ,. (vertical; 15.,5 



Vertebrarterial canal, diameters -^ , 



(transverse; 15.5 



c^„^, ,1 -IT ( vertical ; 28 



teeventh cervical; diameters centrum i 



( transverse ; 35 



Tenth dorsal ; diameters centrum j ''^'^'^''^ ' ^9 



( transverse ; 37 



Length diapophysis of tenth dorsal ; 39 



First caudal ; diameters centrum j ^^^^^^^^ ' 36 



( transverse ; 42 



-u- ( length ; 47 



Humerus ■ , ° ,. 4/ 



( long diameter at middle of shaft ; 26 



Ulna, length ; qq ^ 



Radius, length ; gn 



Chord of first rib, including extremities ; 130 



A comparison of the characters of the skeleton above enumerated 

 leads to the following results. The non-union of the diapophyses 

 and parapophyses of the cervical vertebrae posterior to the second, 

 is remarkable in view of the size of the individual. These processes 

 are confluent distally in the adult Balcenoptera musculus according 

 to[authors, as far as the fifth and sometimes sixth cervical inclusive. 

 They are so in three specimens described by Prof. Flower\ one by 

 Dr. Murie,^ and two by Dr. Gray.^ This is even the case with the 

 young specimen of 48 feet in length descril)ed by Professor Dwight 

 In the very young they are distinct throughout! In the two spec- 

 imens which were stranded on the Orkney Islands, described by 

 Mr. Heddle, which were also about fifty" feet long, none of the 

 cervical apophyses were united except those of the axis, as in our 



1 Proc. Zool. Soc. London, 18H9, p. 604. 



2 Loc. cit. 1865, p. 210. 



3 Loc. cit. 18-56. p. 187. 




478 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1891. 



specimen. On this and other grounds, Dr. J. E. Gray referred these 

 to a species distinct from B. musculus under the name of B. 

 duguidii. ^ Later authors have not adopted this species. The 

 cervicals are in the same condition in S'lbbaldius tedirostris from 

 the coast of Maryland. The same structure is persistent in B. 

 sibbaldii, in spite of its great dimensions. It is remarkable that the 

 Ocean City specimen, which is about 67 feet long, nearly the adult 

 size of B. musculus, should still retain this character of immaturity. 

 It suggests the enquiry whether there may not be a species of fin- 

 back in the Atlantic possessing characters of both the species B. 

 musculus and B. sibbaldii. 



It has been stated already that the phalanges number 4-6-5-3. 

 Professors Flower and Van Beneden give the numbers for B. 

 musculus as 2-5-5-3 ; a noteworthy difference. Professor Dwight's 

 specimen, however, has 4-6-5-2, which comes much nearer to our 

 specimen. The question arises, are the numbers given to B. musculus 

 by the authors quoted, derived from defective preparations ? The 

 figure in Gervais and Van Beneden's Osteographie des Cetaces,* 

 conveys the impression that a phalange or two has been lost from the 

 digit II. Should the numbers given prove to be correct, the 

 increased numbers of phalanges in the American specimens again 

 points to resemblance to B. sibbaldii, where Flower gives the 

 numbers as 4-7-7-4. 



In conclusion, it appears that the Ocean City whale agrees w^ith 

 Balcenoptera musculus in the form of the head, number of vertebrse 

 and ribs, proportions of pectoral fin and position of dorsal fin ; but 

 that it differs from this species and agrees with B. sibbaldii in the 

 size, color, and in structure of the cervical vertebrae; and that it is 

 intermediate between the two, as described by authors, in the num- 

 bers of the phalanges of the manus. It remains to be ascertained 

 whether these characters indicate another species, and if so, whether 

 the names duguidii or tedirostris are applicable to it. 



1 Catalogue of Seals and Whales in the British Museum, 1866, p. 144. 



2 Loc. cit., p. 158. 



* Pis. xii and xiii, fig. 20- 




1891.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 479 



ECHINODERMS AND CRUSTACEANS COLLECTED BY THE 

 WEST GREENLAND EXPEDITION OF 1891. 



BY J. E. IVES. 



The collection of Echinoderirif* and Crustaceans obtained by the 

 Expedition of the Academy of Natural Sciences to the western coast 

 of Greenland in the summer of 1891, Professor Angelo Heilprin in 

 charge, was made mainly in McCormick Bay, on the southern shore of 

 Prudhoe Land, in Lat. 77° 40' N., Long. 71° W. where Lieutenant 

 Peary, in command of the North Greenland Expedition, was left in 

 wijiter quarters. A few specimens were also collected at localities 

 touched at in the journey to and from this place. 



The author is indebted to Professor Benjamin Sharp the Zoologist- 

 in-Charge of the Expedition for the opportunity of working up this 

 portion of the collection. 



No new forms were found, but the collection is of some interest on 

 account of the specimens having been obtained much further north 

 on the western coast of Greenland than heretofore. It is also 

 worthy of note that the two Isopods, Atylus carlnatus and Themisto 

 lihellula, are the prey respectively of the Eider Duck and the Kinged 

 Seal. 



So much has been written upon the arctic fauna that it Avould be 

 superfluous to make any comments upon the distribution of the 

 species collected, but attention may be drawn to the fact that the 

 more that is known of the marine invertebrates of these regions, the 

 more apparent becomes the general homogeneity of the circumboreal 

 fauna. The collections made by the United States Expedition to 

 Point Barrow, Alaska, have confirmed the evidence in this direction 

 already obtained by the various expeditions to the arctic regions of 

 the North Atlantic, and by the " Vega " during its cruise along the 

 northern shores of Russia and Siberia. 



ECHINODERMS. 



Amphiura Sundevalli Miiller and Troschel. 



Amphiura Holhblli Li'itken. 



McCormick Bay. A single specimen dredged in 3 fathoms of 

 water upon Fucus. 




480 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



Ophioglypha robusta Lyman. i 

 Ophiura squamosa Liitkeu. 



? Ophiura fasciculata Forbes. 



McCorniick Bay. A number of specimens dredged in 3 fathoms 

 of water upon Fucus. 



Ophiocten sericeum Forbes. 



Ophiocten Kroyeri Liitken. 



McCormick Bay. Four specimens dredged in 3 fathoms of water 



upon Fucus. 



Asterias Gronlandica Steenstrup. 



McCormick Bay. A single specimen dredged in 3 fathoms of 

 water upon Fucus. 



Asterias polaris MUller and Troscbel. 



Godhavn, Disco Island. A single specimen collected on the 

 beach. 



Strongylocentrotus Drobachiensis Muller. 



]\IcCormick Bay. A single young specimen dredged in 3 fathoms 

 of water upon Fucus. 



CRUSTACEA. 



Arcturus Bafi&ni Sabine. 



McCormick Bay. A single specimen collected on the beach. 

 Anonyx nugax Phipps. 



INIcCormick Bay. Numerous specimens from about 5 fathoms of 

 water. 

 Gammarus locusta Linn. 



McCormick Bay. Numerous specimens from about 5 fathoms of 

 water. 

 Atylus carinatus Fabricius. 



McCormick Bay. Numerous specimens from about 5 fathoms of 

 water. 



Disco Bay. Numerous specimens taken from the .stomach of an 

 Eider Duck (Somateria mollissima borealis.) 



1 It appears to me questionable whether the species described under this name 

 by Dr. Lyman is the same as the species originally described by Ayres. I have, 

 therefore, merely adopted Dr. Lyman's name provisionally to indicate the species 

 he has described. 




1891,] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 481 



Themisto libellula Mandt. 



Melville Bay. Numerous specimens from the stomach of a Ringed 

 Seal (Phoca fietida.) 



Aegina spinifera Bell. 



McCormick Bay. A single specimen from about 3 fathoms of 

 water. 




482 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



The following annual reports were read and referred to the Pub- 

 lication Committee : — 



REPORT OF THE RECORDING SECRETARY. 



The meetings of the Academy have been held during the year 

 1891 Avithout intermission. On no occasion, even in midsummer, 

 has there been lack of a quorum. The co-operation of the several 

 Sections of the Academy has been continued on the appointed even- 

 ings with gratifying results. The average attendance has been fifty- 

 two as compared with thirty of the year before. The increase has 

 been due to three or four meetings where the attendance ranged 

 from 183 to 398, due to the special interest of the occasion, such as 

 the Leidy memorial addresses and the reports of the Greenland 

 Expedition. Even excluding these, the attendance has been some- 

 what greater than that of last year, which itself showed a gratifying 

 increase over former years. Such statistics may be worth recording 

 as they indicate a sustained and increasing interest which can only 

 be due to the number and value of the communications presented for 

 the consideration of the meetings. Subjects distributed over the 

 entire field of natural history have been discussed by Messrs. Leidy, 

 Heilprin, Meehan, Chapman, Horn, Ives, Ryder, Sharp, Pilsbry, 

 Allen, Kcenig, McCook, Woolman, English, Foote, Rand, Martin- 

 dale, Skinner, Rex, Wingate, Ford, Wilson, Peary, Osborn, Ches- 

 ton Morris, Trotter, Dall, Rothrock, D. G. Brintou, J. B. Brintou, 

 Willcox, Holman, Stiles, Holt, U. C. Smith, Goldsmith, MacFarlane, 

 Bonsai, Cope and Hughes. 



One hundred and forty-three pages of the Proceedings for 1890 

 and 408 of the volume for 1891 have been issued, the former being 

 illustrated by eight plates and the latter by seventeen. During the 

 same period there have been prepared and distributed to subscribers 

 631 pages, illustrated by 139 colored plates, of the Manual of Con- 

 chology under the auspices of the Conehological Section, while 500 

 pages of entomological matter, illustrated by 20 plates, have been 

 issued by the American Entomological Society and the Entomo- 

 logical Section of the Academy, thus making a total of 1682 pages and 

 184 plates supplied to subscribers and exchanges during the year 

 by the Academy through its Publication Committee and its Sections. 

 In this department of its work the Academy is therefore far in ad- 




1891.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 483 



vauce of any other society in America and is equalled by but few- 

 else where. 



Thirty-nine papers have been presented for publication as fol- 

 lows:— J. E.Ives 4, H. A. Pilsbry 3, Witmer Stone 3, Charles Earle 

 2, E. D. Cope 2, Harrison Allen 2, R. W. Shufeldt 2, Edward Ban- 

 croft 1, H. C. Chapman 1, H. C Chapman and A. P. Brubaker 1, 

 J. B. Ellis and B. M. Everhart 1, Edw. Goldsmith 1, John Ford 1, 

 Ashdown H. Green 1, Angel o Heilprin 1, H. F. Osborn 1, W. H. 

 Dall and H. A. Pilsbry 1, G. Baur 1, Charles R. Keyes 1, Jos. 

 Leidy 1, F. Lamson Scribner 1, Geo. A. Koenig 1, O. C. Marsh 1, 

 Thomas Meehan 1, Geo. A. Rex 1, Theodore D. Rand, Wm. W. 

 Jefferis and J. T. M. Cardeza 1, John Eyerman 1 and Samuel N. 

 Rhoads 1. 



Thirty-six of these have been accepted for publication in the Pro- 

 ceedings, two for the Journal and one has been returned to the 

 author. It is to be regretted that the limited means at the disposal 

 of the Publication Committee has rendered it necessary to delay the 

 printing of some of the papers reported on favorably. In common 

 with all the departments of the Academy the Publication Committee 

 feels acutely the necessity for increased resources. It is due, not 

 only to the members of the Society but also to our exchanges, from 

 some of whom we receive more than we give, that papers of value 

 presented for publication be issued promptly and with illustrations 

 Avorthy of the Academy's position in the scientific world. It is true 

 that the volume of Proceedings about being completed will compare 

 favorably with the greater number of those received in exchange, 

 but we are indebted wholly or in part for several of the plates to 

 contributors and others, and it is most desirable that the Publication 

 Fund should be so increased as to place us beyond the necessity for 

 such assistance. 



Thirty-nine members and three correspondents have been elected. 

 During the year the deaths of fourteen members and three corres- 

 pondents have been announced and the resignations of seven mem- 

 bers, namely, F. A. Genth, Jr., John T. Montgomery, Mrs. C. Stev- 

 enson, Wm. Gerlach, A. G. B. Hinckle, E. Fronani and S. G. M. 

 Montgomery have been accepted, thus leaving an increase of eighteen 

 in the list of active members at the end of the year. 



The death of the President, Dr. Joseph Leidy, April 30, entailed 

 a severe loss, not only on this society but on science everywhere. To 

 his modestv and amiability was due the warm pei-sonal affection felt 




484 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



for him by all with whom he was placed in intimate association, a feel- 

 ing but rarely met with except among those united by blood or by 

 close social ties. Engaged as be bad been in the uninterrupted serv- 

 ice of the Academy as Librarian, Curator and President for nearly 

 half a century, it is evident that only the possession of rare qualities 

 as a man and a scholar could have enabled him to retain the confi- 

 dence of a varying constituency during such a prolonged period. A 

 memorial meeting, impressive because of the sincerity of the senti- 

 ments of esteem and regard expressed, was held May ] 2th. The 

 personal history of the deceased President was read with loving ap- 

 preciation by Dr. Wm. Hunt, his intimate associate since early man- 

 hood ; the various sections of his widely distributed scientific work 

 were reviewed by Dr. Harrison Allen, Dr. H. C. Chapman^ Mr. 

 Joseph Willcox, and Dr. James Darrach, his personal character and 

 services to the Academy being commented on by the Recording 

 Secretary. 



In consequence of the repetition and overlapping which is una- 

 voidable in such independently prepared papers, it was deemed ad- 

 visable that a continuous biographical notice should be presented for 

 publication. This duty, on the invitation of the Academy, was 

 admirably performed by Dr. Henry C. Chapman whose intimate 

 knowledge of the man and his work specially fitted him for the 

 appointment. The photogravure jiortrait published with the memoir 

 admirably represents Dr. Leidy as lie was known to the present 

 generation of Academicians, without indicating any of the changes 

 due to the sickness and exhaustion of his last months of life. 



As a further mark of respect to his memory the Academy resolved 

 to leave the jiresidential chair vacant until the end of the year. 

 His curatorship was filled by the election, June 2, of Dr. Henry C. 

 Chapman who was also placed by the Council on tlie Library Com- 

 mittee. 



Mr. Aubrey H. Smith, a member of the Council, having died 

 April 14th, Mr. Chas. E.Smith was elected to fill the vacancy. He 

 was also appointed on the Publication Committee to fill the vacancy 

 caused by the death of Dr. Leidy. 



The formation of an Ornithological Section was authorized May 

 26. It has since been organized with, it is believed, immediate ben- 

 efit to the department of the Academy with which it is connected. 



The Council appointed Messrs. Angelo Heilprin, J. P. Lesley, 

 Persifor Frazer, W. B. Scott and Benjamin Smith Lyman as the 




1891.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 485 



Committee on the Hayden Memorial Geological Award. On the 

 report of this committee the second medal, together with the balance 

 of interest arising from the Fund, was voted by the Academy 

 October 20th, to Edward Drinker Cope in recognition of the value of 

 his services to geological and paleontological science. 



Chapter I of the By-Laws was amended by the addition of Article 

 X : — Xo member shall be eligible to the office of President for more 

 than four consecutive years. 



All of which is respectfully submitted. 



Edw. J. Nolan, 



Recording Secretary. 



REPORT OF CORRESPONDIXG SECRETARY. 



The Corresponding Secretary respectfully reports that during the 

 past year commencing December 1st, 1890, he has received from 

 sixty-eight Societies, Museums, etc., one hundred and thirtv- 

 one notices of the receipt of the publications of the Academv ; 

 thirty-two notices from Societies, Museums, etc., of the forward- 

 ing of their own publications. There has been received twenty 

 applications to exchange publications, for reports, and asking for 

 missing numbers of the Academy's publications. Twentv-five 

 letters on various subjects, together with four invitations to the 

 Academy and its members to participate in congresses, meetings, etc. 

 have been received and answered. Six notices of deaths have been 

 received. 



During the year three Correspondents have been elected and 

 notices to that effect have been forwarded to them ; the acknowl- 

 edgement of one of these has been received. Nine certificates of 

 Correspondentship were forwarded to those elected during the past 

 year, four of which have been acknowledged. 

 Respectfully submitted, 



Benjamin Sharp, 



Corresponding Secretary. 



REPORT OF THE LIBRARIAN. 



The Librarian respectfully reports that the accessions to the 

 library of the Academy from November 30, 1890, to December 1, 

 1891, amount to 4335, an increase of 156 over the additions of the 




486 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1891. 



preceding year. They were composed of 3858 pamphlets and parts 

 of serials, 440 volumes and 37 maps, photographs, engravings, etc. 

 We are indebted to the following sources for this supply. — 



Societies 



I. V. Williamson Fund, 



Editors, 



AiUhois, 



U. S. Department of the Interior, 



Wilson Fund, 



U. S. Department of Agriculture, 

 State of Pennsylvania, .... 

 U. S. Department of State, . . 

 Benj. Smith Lyman, .... 



Chas. P. Perot, 



Thomas Meehan, 



H.C.Wood Jr., 



H. A. Pilsbry, 



Minister of Public Works in 



France, 



Harrison Allen, 



California State Mining Bureau, 

 U. S. Treasury Department, . 

 Government of Australia, . . . 

 Geological Survey of Pennsylvania 

 Geological Survey of Russia, 



British Museum, 



Geological Survey of Canada, 



Angelo Heilprin, 



Geological Survey of India, . . 

 U. S. War Department, 

 Geological Survey of Brazil, . . 



Philip P. Calvert, 



Chas. E. Smith, 



Chas. M. Belts, 



Geological Survey of Missouri, . 



J. P. Remington, 



Kew Gardens, 



H. C. Chapman, 



Geological Survey of Finlai.d, . 



1586 



976 



949 



261 



114 



80 



32 



32 



23 



20 



20 



14 



12 



11 



10 



10 



9 



9 



Geological Survey of New South 

 Wales, 



D. B. McCartee, 



Geological Survey of Minnesota, 



Alex. Muckle, 



Historical Society of Pennsylvania, 



Witmer Stone, 



Clark Maxwell Memorial Com- 

 mittee, 



East Indian Government, 

 U. S. Department of Labor, . 

 Canadian Meteorological Service, 

 U. S. Navy Department, . . . 

 Department of Agriculture, Canada, 



C. W. Reilly 



J. H. Redfield, 



Geological Survey of Kentucky, 

 Frau G. Vom Rath, .... 



Henry Skinner, 



Norwegian Government, . . . 

 Niagara Commissioners, . . . 

 Geological Survey of Portugal, . 

 Geological Survey of New Zealand, 

 Geological Survey of Roumania, 



Adele M. Fielde, 



U. S. Coast Survey 



Illinois Bureau of Labor, . . . 



W. J. Fox, 



Geological Survey of New Jersey, 



Inriian Museum, 



Geological Survey of Texas, . 

 Geological Survey of Arkansas, 

 S. G. Dixon 



E. C. Knight & Co., .... 

 U. S. Commission of Fish and 



Fisheries, 



Twenty-six volumes were obtained by special subscription. 

 They were placed in the several departments of the Library as 

 follows : — 



Journals, 3376 



Geology, 182 



Botany, 173 



General Natural History, ... 81 



Entomology, 58 



Ornithology, 53 



Conchology, 38 



Mammalogy, 33 



Anatomy and Physiology, . . 33 



Voyages and Travels, .... 23 



Physical Science, 20 



Encyclopedias, 19 



Mineralogy 14 



Anthropology, H 



Chemistry, 10 



Ichthyology, 9 



Herpetology, 8 



Medicine, 7 



Bibliography, 6 



Geography, 3 



Agriculture, 1 



Unclassified, Government Publi- 

 cations, etc 177 




1891.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 487 



The subject catalogue of the entire library was completed and 

 arranged early in the year. It has, of course, been since kept up to 

 date, the accessions being carded and arranged immediately on their 

 presentation. 



But few volumes have been bound, all the resources of the 

 Library Committee being required for the purchase of books 

 actually needed by the working members of the Academy and for 

 the continuance of subscriptions to serials and periodicals. 



Among the more noteworthy additions recorded is a fine set of 

 Edwards' Botanical Register, a much needed journal, procured by 

 special subscriptions received from Messrs. John T. Morris, Stuart 

 Wood, Alex. Biddle, Charles W. Trotter, (jhai-les Schaeffer and 

 INIiss Serena Potts, through Mr. Thomas INIeehan. 



The " Hortus Siccus Gramineus" of Wm. Curtis, published in 

 London in 1802, was presented in two well-preserved volumes by 

 Dr. Charles R. King and being illustrated, not by figures but by 

 the plants themselves, was transferred to the herbarium. 



We are indebted to Mr. Edw. C. Pickering for a fine crayon 

 portrait of the late Dr. Charles Pickering, whose early work in con- 

 nection with the Academy well merits such commemoration. 



Another interesting addition to the society's collection of portraits 

 is a fine oil painting of Alex. Lawson, the engraver, who, although 

 never a member of the Academy, was intimately associated with the 

 founders and should be held in grateful remembrance in consequence 

 of the fine plates prepared by him in illustration of Binney's 

 Mollusks and Wilson's Birds. The picture was presented by his 

 daughter, Mrs. Mary Lawson Birckhead. 



A pair of globes bequeathed to the Academy' by Mrs. Cecilia 

 Barron Fest have also been received and appropriately placed in 

 the library. 



It gives me pleasure to acknowledge the efficient assistance 

 rendered in the current work of the year by Mr. William J. Fox. 

 All of which is respectfully submitted, 



Edw. J. Nolan, 



Lihrarian. 



REPORT OF THE CURATORS. 



The Curators present the following statement of the Curator-in- 

 Charge as their report for the year 1891 : — 




488 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891*. 



The Curator-in-Charge respectfully reports that the collections 

 of the Academy are in much the same condition as they were at the 

 time of the preparation of the last annual report ; this condition is, 

 in the main, satisfactory so far as the actual state of preservation of 

 the specimens is concerned, but the limitation of space in the 

 Museum no longer permits of that attention being given to proper 

 display and classification which are so desirable, either from the 

 point of view of the mere visitor or of that of the scientist. Atten- 

 tion has been repeatedly called in these reports to this deficiency, 

 but for the time it has seemed impossible to rectify the defect. The 

 surprisingly rapid growth of the collections, giving evidence of con- 

 tinued and increased interest in the workings of the Academy, has 

 of itself been the chief obstacle to systematization, crowding as it does, 

 all space available in the institution. Relief seems near at hand, how- 

 ever. The generous response of the State to the Academy's applica- 

 tion for aid, as manifested in two enactments of the Legislature 

 (sessions of 1888-1889 and 1890-1891) each appropriating $50,000 

 toward the construction of an addition to the present building, has 

 made it possible for the Academy to practically enter upon a scheme 

 of enlargement, and the close of the present year sees completed the 

 " connecting museum " which is to unite the existing building on 

 Logan Square with the main edifice fronting on 19th street, the 

 early erection of which is anxiously looked forward to. This 

 main structure, the completion of which will mark an epoch in the 

 history of the Academy, will cover a surface area of approximately 

 23,000 square feet, and nearly treble the available space which the 

 institution now has. The total cost of this structure is estimated, 

 from plans already drawn and approved, at about 8200,000, 

 toward which the Academy has now in actual funds and sub- 

 scriptions, conditional and otherwise, upwards of $80,000 (including 

 the last State appropriation of S50,000.) The generous interest 

 of the citizens of Philadelphia, who have always regarded with pride 

 the foremost institution of the kind in this country, encourages the 

 hope that sufficient will be added to this amount during the coming 

 winter to permit the Academy, through the Board of Trustees of 

 the Building Fund, to contract for the construction of the walls 

 and roof immediately on the opening of the building season. This 

 is earnestly to be desired, and it is hoped that no eflfort will be 

 spared to attain this end. It should be noted that the foundations 

 for the entire edifice have already been laid. 




'1891.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 489 



The connecting building which has just been completed con- 

 tains the new lecture theatre, with a capacity of 500, and a museum 

 hall, well adapted to an exposition of synoptic natural history. 

 For the present, and until further accommodation is afforded, it will 

 be used to display a " State collection " — a collection illustrative, so 

 far as it is possible in the restricted space which is offered, of the 

 natural resources, principally geological and mining, of the State of 

 Pennsylvania. 



The acquisition of a hall designed specially for the delivery of 

 lectures is of importance to the Academy, as it permits of that atten- 

 tion being given to one department of the workings of the institution 

 w^hich its limited accommodation has thus far rendered all but 

 impossible. Heretofore all the lectures prepared under the auspices 

 of the Academy have been delivered in the Library Hall or in one of 

 the east rooms prepared specially for class purposes. The various 

 uses to which it has been found necessary to put the latter room, has 

 ultimately thrown all the lectures into the Library Hall, much to the 

 discomfort, at times, of the special workers and students in the Library, 

 and always to the disadvantage, through lack of adaptability, of the 

 lecturer and his audience. The large attendance at some of these 

 lectures — and equally so at some of the regular stated meetings of 

 the Academy when communications of special interest have been 

 announced — has demonstrated the deficiency of seating capacity, 

 and members as well as visitors have sometimes been obliged to 

 forego the proceedings for want of room. This disadvantage the 

 new lecture hall will rectify. Constructed in the form of a theatre, 

 with raised platforms and gallery, it is well adapted to the wants of 

 an average audience. 



The additions to the Academy's collection made during the year 

 are of unusual importance, and it is gratifying to be able to 

 report that they cover about equally all departments. The re- 

 newed activity which has manifested itself in certain departments 

 which have, for some time back, been in a condition more or less 

 stationary augurs well for a period of prosperity, and it is not too much 

 to hope that this period will be one of the most promising in the 

 history of the institution. Special attention is in this connection 

 called to the report of the Conservator of the Orinthological Sec- 

 tion, ]\Ir. Witmer Stone. From this it appears that the Academy 

 has added to its already vast collection of birds upwards of 1200 

 specimens, many of them now for the first time represented in 



32 




490 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891,* 



the museum. The thauks of the Academy are specially due to 

 Mr. Samuel N. Rhoads, who has generously given upwards of 900 

 birds, representing the avi-fauna of the southern United States from 

 Florida to California. To the members of the Delaware Valley 

 Ornithological Club, an organization of energetic students recently 

 founded for the prosecution of orinthological studies, the Academy is 

 also under obligations for the gift of a superb collection of nests of 

 Pennsylvania birds, numbering 60 pieces; these nests are taken 

 with their accessories, and thus illustrate a full scheme of avian 

 architecture. 



With the sanction of the Academy the Orinthological Section has 

 issued circulars asking for the establishment of a permanent endow- 

 ment fund for the more efficient management of its department; 

 the substantial response which this effort has already met with 

 encourages the belief that before long the full subscription asked 

 for — $25,000 — will be received. 



In the department of conchology, which continues to be the most 

 fully represented of any in the Academy, and which still takes 

 rank as the first of its kind in the world, the work of classification 

 and rearrangement progresses with the usual vigor, thanks to the 

 labors of the Conservator, Mr. H. A. Pilsbry, and of his co- 

 workers, members of the Conchological Section and of the American 

 Association of Conchologists. The specimens added during the year 

 are comprised in 1710 trays, so that the total collection of shells, now 

 exhibited, numbers 62,700 trays. The work of the American Asso- 

 ciation of Conchologists in bringing together a complete and select 

 collection of the moUusca, recent and fossil, of the United States, is 

 being rapidly pushed forward, and there are already represented in 

 the new series 334 genera and 751 species, contained in 921 trays. 

 The following statement from the President of the Association, 

 Mr. John H. Campbell, outlines the work of the organization : 

 " The formation of the collection has met with the most enthusiastic 

 support of the members. Freely contributing specimens, they take a 

 pride in sending only such shells as will do credit to the Association, 

 and it is their confident expectation that before many years the col- 

 lection will be the finest special exhibit of natural history specimens 

 in America, if not in the world. It already contains several types 

 of new species, many fine examples of species of which the Acad- 

 emy's general collection contained only poor or inferior si:)ecimens, 

 and by the addition of the fossil to the living species, it introduces a 




1891.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 491 



new feature into American museums. The life history of the Amer- 

 ican mollusca may be traced from the earliest known forms to the 

 living species, as the collection approaches more and more toward 

 completion. " The donations to this collection are from 52 col- 

 lectors, whose names appear in the list of additions to the museum. 



The departments of entomology and botany continue to profit by 

 the valuable services of their special Conservators, Dr. Henry Skin- 

 ner and Mr. John H. Redfield, who, as in past years, contribute 

 their work gratuitously, for the benefit of the Academy. To these 

 gentlemen a debt of gratitude is due for the great amount of tinie 

 wdiich they give to the care of the special collections under their 

 charge, and for their efforts to obtain new material for them. 

 In this connection also the Curator-in-Charge would refer to the 

 services of Mr. Thomas Meehan, who for years past has assiduously 

 labored toward increasing the Academy's herbarium and supply- 

 ing the rare botanical works needed for the study of the plants, 

 himself contributing extensively from his own private purse. The 

 appended list of donations to the herbarium indicates the satisfactory 

 condition of the department of botany. 



The additions to the collection of minerals have been somewhat 

 less important than during past years, partly due to the fact that 

 the collections have been steadily nearing completion, thereby 

 rendering it more difficult to procure desiderata, and also to the 

 protracted illness of the Conservator of the Wm. S. Vaux collec- 

 tion, Mr. Jacob Binder, which has prevented that attention being 

 given to the collection which it would otherwise have received. 

 The regular Academy collection of minerals continues to receive 

 attention from Mr. W. W. Jefferis, the Conservator of the Mineral- 

 ogical Section, and from others associated with that Section. 



The accessions in the departments of geology and paleontology 

 are referred to in the report of the Professor of Invertebrate 

 Paleontology. It may not be amiss, however, to refer in this 

 place to the acquisition by the Academy's ^Yest Greenland Expedi- 

 tion, among other geological material, of a large mass weighing 260 

 pounds, and of four smaller masses of the famous Ovifak iron, tellurite 

 or meteorite, the nature of which has given rise to so much discussion 

 among chemists and geologists. The largest mass, while very con- 

 siderably smaller than either of the three blocks which were 

 secured by the Swedish Government in 1871, exceeds in weight by 

 some fifteen pounds, the Nordenskjold specimen deposited in the 




492 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



British Museum. No analysis of the Academy's stone has as yet 

 been made, although numerous requests for permission to make 

 such examination have been received. A more detailed, although 

 as yet only preliminary, sketch of the operations of the West 

 Greenland Expedition has been submitted to the Council, and is 

 appended as a special report. 



In departments of the Academy other than those that have been 

 specified, the work of arranging and cataloguing has been steadily, 

 though not rapidly, progressing; this work, under the direction 

 of the Curator-in-Charge, has been in the main carried out by his 

 assistant, Mr. J. E. Ives, to whose efforts, also, and to the liberality 

 of Mr. F. Stearns of Detroit, the Academy is indebted for most 

 valuable additions representing the invertebrate (echinoderra and 

 crustacean) faunas of the Japanese and West Indian Seas. Much 

 new material has also been brought from the latter region by Mr. 

 William J. Fox, Avho, in the interests of .the Academy, spent a 

 month in tlie early part of the year on the island of Jamaica. 



Attention has been called in the last report of the Curator-in- 

 Charge to the deficiencies in the Academy's collection of recent 

 mammalia, which is still, if we except the cabinet of archaeology* 

 the weakest department of the museum. Thanks however, to the 

 liberality of the Philadelphia Zoological Society, through the Super- 

 intendent of the Gardens, Mr. Arthur Erwin Brown, new material 

 is being constantly obtained, much of it of a kind which it would be 

 difficult to duplicate. The osteological collection, which is already 

 the most extensive in the country, is thus being rapidly increased, 

 and it is hoped that before long it will be sufficiently complete 

 to permit of its being separated into a " type " series, similar 

 to the famous Hunterian Collection of the Royal College of 

 Surgeons in London. Apart from the donations which have been 

 received from the Zoological Society, the department of mammalogy 

 has been enriched by a series of skulls of the larger African 

 quadrupeds, from the region of Mount Kilima 'Njaro, the gift of 

 Dr. W. L. Abbott, a member of the Academy, who is at present 

 ex[)loring the northern wilds of India. Among these skulls are a 

 number of rare types of antelopes. The most important accession 

 of the year to the department of mammalogy, is the complete 

 skeleton of Sibbald's Avhale (Bakeiioptera Sihbaldii), obtained from 

 a carcass, 68 feet in length, stranded on the New Jersey Coast on 

 October first. To the good will of the Mayor and Town Council 




1891.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 493 



of Oceau City, assisted by the generosity of Dr. Samuel G. Dixon, 

 the Academy is indebted for this very rare and valuable specimen, 

 the only one of the kind in thi.= country, and one of four specimens 

 contained in the museums of the world. This is the first recorded 

 occurrence of the species in American waters. The specimen in 

 question has been made the subject of study by Prof Cope, who 

 has contributed a paper on its structure and peculiarities to the 

 Academy's " Proceedings." 



The general routine work of the Curator's department has been 

 conducted as in previous years, no broad departure of plan or 

 method having been considered necessary. The entire collection of 

 alcoholics has been examined, and it is a pleasure to be able to 

 state that less than a half-dozen removals have been found necessary. 



It is well to call attention to the defective condition of the roof 

 of the museum, which allows of the accumulation of moisture in 

 the walls, and a penetration of the same into some of the wall- 

 cases, thus rotting the labels and otherwise disfiguring the speci- 

 mens. It has, indeed, been found necessary to empty a few of these 

 cases, and the contents of others would be removed were there space 

 for their arrangement elsewhere. Repeated attempts have been 

 made to repair the defects of the roof, but the form of construction 

 renders it difficult to do so effectively. The increasing leakages, 

 combined with the heavy cost of the repairs, make it probable that 

 a new roof will have to be provided before many years. 



Specimens for study have been loaned during the year to Dr. G. 

 Baur, of the Clark University, Worcester, Mass.; to Mr. Chapman, 

 of New York ; to Dr. G. Brown Goode, of Washington ; and to 

 Profs. W. B. Scott and H. F. Osborn, of Princeton. The Curator- 

 in-Charge reports the loss of two specimens of the chelonian Cino- 

 sternum Pennsylvanicum. 



The Board of Curators as it was constituted at the time of the 

 preparation of the last annual report, had been in existence since the 

 latter part of 1883, a period of seven years. The removal of one 

 of its members, the President of the Academy, Dr. Joseph Leidy, 

 who occupied the position of Curator for a continuous term of 

 forty-four years, and whose death took place on the 30th of April 

 last, left a vacancy in the Board, which was filled by the election 

 (June 2d) of Dr. Henry C. Chapman. It is needless to comment 

 upon the loss to the Academy which the death of its late President 

 and Chairman of the Board of Curators entails ; it is sufficient to 




494 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



say that no one had been for a longer period of time actively 

 identified with its interests, and no one has added greater lustre to 

 the galaxy of names with which the history of the institution is 

 illumined. 



Respectfully submitted, 



Angelo Heilprin, 



Curator-in- Charge. 



report on the operations of the west GREENLAND EXPE- 

 DITION. 



As leader of the auxiliary party which accompanied the 

 Academy's North Greenland Expedition to the Arctic Regions, I 

 respectfully submit the following preliminary report of operations : 



The combined Expedition, under direction of Civil Engineer 

 Robert E. Peary, left Brooklyn, N. Y., on the steam-w^haler " Kite " 

 June 6th, arriving at Sidney, Cape Breton, on the 11th of the 

 same month. After shipping 183 tons of coal, in addition to a 

 remaining 144 tons, the "Kite" headed for the coast of Greenland 

 via the Strait of Belle Isle, entering the early ice of the Strait, off 

 Greenly Island, on the loth. On the 19th the ship left the " pack," 

 and sighted the coast of Greenland, somewhat southwest of Cape 

 Desolation, on the night of the 23d. Godhavn or Disco was made 

 on the 27th, and Upernivik on July 1st. No pack ice of any conse- 

 quence was met with until a position about opposite the Devil's 

 Thumb (Lat. 74° 40') was reached, late in the afternoon of July 

 2d. From this day until the 23d, when we had attained a point 

 somewhat westward of Cape York, the Expedition Avas virtually 

 powerless in the grip of the ^Melville Bay ice, and it was only by 

 dint of hard ettbi't that it succeeded in making the North Water. 

 It was during one of the many attempts to force a passage through 

 the ice that an unfortunate accident, the breaking of the right 

 leg, befell Mr. Peary (July 11th). The accident was not 

 considered at the time of such a nature as to materially interfere 

 with the pi-ospects of the Expedition. The entrance to Inglefield 

 Gulf, where Mr. Peary had anticipated establishing his winter 

 quarters, was reached on July 24th, but the i)resence of a continuous 

 ice-sheet prevented entry, and after due consideration a site was 

 selected on the south side of McCormick Bay, just north of 

 Murchison Sound, in approximate Lat. 77° 43' N. This Bay com- 

 municates with the North Water, and is considered one of the most 




1891.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 495 



advantageous sites for wintering on the north coast. It is in the 

 midst of a region where game in one form or another is abundant. 

 After the virtual completion of Mr. Peary's winter house, the 

 party immediately under my charge, consisting of Dr. Benjamin 

 Sharp, Zoologist-in-Charge, Dr. W. H. Burk, botanist. Dr. W. E. 

 Hughes, ornithologist, Dr. J. F. Holt, zoologist, Mr. L. M. :\Ienge], 

 entomologist, Dr. R. N. Keely, surgeon, Mr. Frazer Ashhurst and 

 Mr. Alex. Kenealy, turned southward, firing the final salute at 5.30 

 A. M. of the 30th. 



On the southern journey much delay was occasioned by fogs and 

 storms, which interfered largely with the operations of the Expedi- 

 tion. Little ice, beyond freely floating or grounded icebergs, was 

 met with in the traverse of Melville Bay. Cape York was left at 

 midnight of Aug. 3d, and Wilcox's Head, south of the Devil's 

 Thumb, sighted about noon of the 5th. That Avhich occupied us 

 three weeks on the northern journey was thus accomplished in about 

 thirty-six hours on the return. The passage of the Waigat, north 

 of Disco Island, was made on the 8th and 9th of August, and 

 Godhavn reached early on the 10th. On August 23d the last day 

 of the contract with the agents of the " Kite," the vessel steamed 

 into St. Johns, Newfoundland. A margin of but a few tons of 

 coal was left on arrival. 



The stopping places of the Expedition in Greenland were: God- 

 havn, Ovifak (southern shore of the island of Disco), Moder Bay 

 (east shore of the same island), Kudlisaet (north shore, on the 

 AVaigat), the Swarte Huk (opposite Skalo Island), Upernavik, the 

 Duck Islands, Cape York (a few miles to the east of the actual 

 cape), Saunders Island, ISTetlik (the Eskimo settlement on Barden 

 Bay), Herbert Island, and the two shores of McCormick Bay. Col- 

 lections were made at all of these points. 



It is as yet impossible to estimate the scientific results of the Ex- 

 pedition, but a cursory examination of the collections that have been 

 brought back encourages the belief that considerable material that is 

 new to science has been obtained, while the bulk of the collections is 

 new to the Academy's museum. Briefly summarized the collections 

 are approximately as follows : 



Department of Ethnology : — 1 Eskimo skeleton, 22 Eskimo crania, 

 2 Eskimo kayaks (one from the region of Cape York,) 2 Eskimo 

 sledges, and a variety of implements, utensils, etc., mainly from the 

 tribe of the Arctic Hisrhlanders. 




496 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



Vertebrate Zoology. — 2 young (white) seals — stuffed, 2 Skulls of 

 seals, 1 Polar bear skull, 2 Walrus skulls, 1 Reindeer skull, 1 Blue- 

 fox skull, 1 54 specimens of birds, and a collection of eggs. 



Marine Zoology. — Specimens obtained in dredgings and other- 

 wise — not yet classified. 



Entomology. — 444 specimens, exclusive of those collected at Cape 

 Breton, distributed as follows: Hymenoptera 25, Coleoptera 4, 

 Diurnal Lepidoptera 106, Moths 143, Diptera 166. 



A number of these, as reported by the Conservator of the Ento- 

 mological Section, are new to science. 



Botany. — A nearly complete collection of all the flowering j^lants, 

 mosses and lichens found in the region. 



Geology. — A full suite of rock specimens from all points touched 

 by the Expedition. Noteworthy among these is one of the large 

 iron-stones (meteorite or tellurite) from the famous region of Ovdfak, 

 weighing approximately 260 pounds. While a pygmy in comparison 

 with the giant stones which were secured at the same spot by the 

 Swedish Government in 1871, it is yet considerably larger than the 

 well-known Nordenskjold sj^ecimen in the British Museum. The 

 interest, which from their peculiar construction, attaches to these 

 stones, no less than their exceeding rarity in collections, makes 

 the specimen an exceedingly valuable one to the Academy's museum. 

 The Expedition was further successful in finding a number of other 

 fragments and blocks together aggregating several pounds in weight. 



It should be noted that no case of serious illness occurred on the 

 Expedition. 



Respectfully submitted, 



Angelo Heilprix, 

 Leader of the West Greenland Expedition A. N. S. 



REPORT OF THE BIOLOGICAL AND MICROSCOPICAL 



SECTION. 



During the year 1891 this Section has held eighteen meetings. 



Three new members have been admitted : Miss Mary Schively, 

 Mr. Amos. P. Brown and Mrs. Elizabeth S. Bladen. 



The following ofiicers have been elected to serve for the ensuing 

 year: 



Director, ..... Dr. Benjamin Sharp. 



Vice- Director, ..... John C. AVilson. 




1891.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 497 



Recorder, Harold Wingate. 



Treasurer, Charles P. Perot. 



Conservator, ..... Dr. George A. Rex. 



Corresponding Secretary, . . . Dr. Charles SchiifFer. 



Very respectfully submitted, 



Harold Wingate, 



Recorder. 



REPORT OF THE COXCHOLOGICAL SECTION. 



Since the last aunual meeting of the Section, specimens have been 

 received from forty-nine sources, to the number of 1710 trays and 

 bottles, a detailed list of which Avill be found in the " Additions to 

 the Museum." In no year since the acquisition of the A. D. Brown 

 collection in 1887, have there been added so many species new to 

 the Academy, more than 800, or nearly one-half of the total number 

 of additions, being species new to us, and between thirty and forty 

 are species new to science. Most of the latter have been described 

 in the Manual of Conchology, the Proceedings of the Academy, and 

 the Nautilus, during the year. 



The more interesting accessions are the series of East Indian 

 land shells purchased by the Section, comprising all of the known 

 species of several genera of Helicidre and Cyclophoridte, and nearly 

 all of many other important genera, such as Hypselostoma, Diplom- 

 matina, Diaphora, Arinia, Opisthosthoma, etc. Our series of fresh- 

 water shells from the African Lake Tanganika has been almost 

 completed by purchases and donations during the year, only a few 

 species and varieties being still lacking. 



Through the libei-ality of Mr. Frederick Stearns the number of 

 our Japanese marine shells has been greatly augmented, and 

 several interesting new forms have been figured and described in 

 the Proceedings of the Academy and the Manual of Conchology. 

 Dr. H. von Ihering, of Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil, has presented 

 thirty-four species of South American Uuionidaj which, with two or 

 three exceptions, are new to the collection. 



Mr. Anastasio Alfaro, Director of the National Museum of Costa 

 Rica, has sent to the Conservator an interesting collection of eighty 

 species collected by him in Costa Rica. Dr. J. C. Cox, of Sidney, 

 N. S. Wales, has presented twenty -five species of land shells from 




498 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



Australia, and through Mr. S. R. Roberts, rare species of Cyprese 

 and Marginella. Our suites of Australasian shells have also been 

 increased by exchanges and gifts from a number of correspondents,. 

 Mr. C. T. Musson, forty-one species ; Mr. S. W. Wright, twenty-six 

 species, Mr. Chas. Hedley, and others. 



Our suites of American shells have been greatly increased by 

 donations from a large number of correspondents of the Conservator^ 

 but more especially by the collections of the American Association 

 of Conchologists. 



This collection, formed entirely by members of the Association, 

 and constituting an exhibit of mollusks of the United States only, 

 now occupies nine large table cases. 762 trays of specimens have 

 been added during the year, representing nearly as many species. The 

 officers of the Association, John H. Campbell Esq., President, Mr. 

 John Ford, Yif^e President, and Mr. C. W. Johnson, Secretary, take 

 entire charge of the mounting and labelling of these specimens. More 

 space is already urgently required for this exhibit, and this need is 

 the more imperative because many species in this collection are 

 being exhibited for the first time. The regular series of American 

 fresh-water shells of the Academy being for the most part in 

 drawers, frequently several tiers of trays deep, and consequently 

 very difficult to consult. 



More space for the display of the Oriental Helices and the 

 Bulimi is also needed. These groups are now in unsightly and 

 inconvenient heaps on account of the lack of case-room. This con- 

 fusion could be partly remedied by the use of shallow trays for 

 the drawers, in which a large number of small species could be 

 arranged. This plan has been very successfully adopted by the 

 Conservator in the disposition of several thousand trays of Clausilia, 

 Pupa and Cylindrella ; and the members of the Museum Committee 

 earnestly recommend that forty or fifty large drawer-trays be pro- 

 cured for the reception of the species of Stenogyra, the smaller 

 operculates, the geographic suites of American Helices and a portion 

 of the Auriculidje. This will give room for the proper arrangement 

 of the Helices and Bulimi during another year. 



Of the current numbers of the Manual of Conchology four 

 parts of each series have been issued since the last report. The 

 families Acmseidse Lepetidae, Patellidse and Titiscaniidfe have been 

 monographed, and in the second series the groups Geotrochus and 




1891.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 499 



part of Cochlostyla. The specimens of each group have been 

 identified and relabelled. 



The Conservator has been much assisted by INIrs. Pilsbry, who 

 has neatly mounted the sj^ecimens presented and studied during' the 

 year, over three thousand five hundred trays in all. Mr. Campbell 

 and other members of the Museum Committee have also rendered 

 valuable aid in the Museum. 



Respectfully submitted, 



H. A. Pilsbry, 



Conse^'vator. 



REPORT OF THE ENTOMOLOGICAL SECTION. 



Much interest has been taken in the work of the Section during the 

 year. The meetings have been fairly well attended, the highest 

 number present at any one meeting being fifteen and the lowest 

 seven. Verbal communications of interest have been made by a 

 majority of the members and reported in the monthly issues of the 

 Entomological News. Nearly four hundred books and pamphlets 

 have been added to the library, some of which were purchased, the 

 majority, however, being either donated or received in exchange. 

 The collections are all in fairly good condition, much work having 

 been done on them by the Conservator and the members interested 

 in the several orders. Many valuable additions have been made 

 to the cabinet, in all about 1369 specimens. The most important 

 additions were received from the Greenland Expedition and from 

 Mr. W. J, Fox who presented much of the material he collected in 

 Jamaica. Rev. Dr. McCook presented a valuable and accurately 

 named collection of European Ants which will be very useful for 

 comparison. Many specimens were received through the agency of 

 the Entomological News which is published by the Section with the 

 financial aid of the American Entomological Society. Volume two 

 of this journal, consisting of two hundred and fourteen pages with ten 

 plates, has been completed. It has steadily grown both in size and 

 circulation and during the coming year twenty-four j^ages will be 

 published each month, and each number will be illustrated if pos- 

 sible. At the meeting held December 14th, 1891, the following 

 were elected ofiicers to serve during the coming year : 



Director, Geo. H. Horn. 



Vice-President, I. C. INIartindale. 




500 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



Recorder, Henry Skinner. 



Conservator, Henry Skinner. 



Publication Committee, . . . . | ^^^r^ LaSt. 



Henry Skinner, 



Recorder. 



REPORT OF THE BOTANICAL SECTION. 



Tlae Vice-Director of the Botanical Section has pleasure in 

 reporting that the growth of the Hebarium, which it has 

 been a satisfaction to record in former years, still continues, as is 

 shown by the statement of the Conservator hereunto attached as 

 part of this report. 



Stated meetings have been held regularly during the year, and 

 many matters of interest to botanical science introduced, some of 

 which have appeared in the publications of the Academy, 



The Section is out of debt and with a balance in its treasury. 



The officers for the ensuing year are: 



Director, .... W. S. W. Ruschenberger, M. D. 



Vice- Director, 



Recorder, 



Cor. Sec. and Treasurer, 



Conservator, 



Thomas INIeehan. 

 Charles Schuffer, M. D. 

 Isaac C. Martindale. 

 John H. Redfield. 

 Respectfully submitted, 



Thomas Meehan, 



Vice-Director. 



Conservato7''s Report for 1891. — The Conservator of the Herbarium 

 in presenting his report for the year closing November 30, is enabled 

 to congratulate the Academy and the Section upon the improved 

 condition, constant growth and increasing usefulness of its botanical 

 collections. 



The accessions during the year have kept pace with those 

 of former years. The total number of species of Phanerogams and 

 vascular Cryptogams received has been 2,496. Of these, 721 species 

 were new to the Herbarium, representing also 72 genera new to us. 

 605 species are North American, 1,518 are from tropical America, 

 and 373 from the old world. Of the lower Cryptogams, we have 




1891.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 501 



received, Mosses, 171 species; Hepaticie, 40 ; Algse, 120; Lichens, 

 27; Fungi, 201 ; in all 559 species, which, added to those above 

 mentioned gives a total of 3,055 species. 



In the "Additions to the Museum" will be found the usual detailed 

 list, but we may here specify some accessions of special interest. Prof. 

 Eovirosa has continued his explorations of the flora of the Mexican 

 provinces of Tabasco and Chiapas and has sent us 209 species. Mr. 

 Pringle's collections in the northern provinces of Mexico have con- 

 tributed 291 species. The collections made by Dr. Thomas 

 Morong in South America during the years 1888 to 1890 have 

 furnished us 350 species, including many new and rare species from 

 the desert of Atacama — and others are on the way. Prof. Leopold 

 Krug, of the Royal Botanical Museum of Berlin, has sent us 446 

 West Indian species, most of them from Porto Rico, and many of 

 them new to science. John Donnell Smith of Baltimore, has made 

 a second contribution of Guatemalan plants amounting to 161 

 species most of them collected by himself. The Academy's Expedi- 

 tion to Greenland, under the charge of Prof. Angelo Heilprin, 

 furnished 80 species of phanerogamic plants, besides some Lichens. 

 Frank S. Collins of Maiden, Mass., has presented 120 species of 

 marine Algse from the coasts of Xew England and of California ; 

 and a very complete series of the Sphagnacese of New England 

 consisting of 28 species and 88 varieties and forms, named by Carl 

 Warnstof, has been contributed by Edwin Faxon and Edward L. 

 Rand. 



The plants received have been carefully poisoned and the North 

 American si:)ecies, with most of those from tropical America, have 

 been mounted. Heretofore the exotic portion of the Herbarium has 

 received but little of this latter attention, so essential to its perma- 

 nent preservation, but this year the Academy has enabled us to 

 make a beginning, by supplying the necessary mechanical aid. 



Several large collections received in years past, such as the 

 Menke Herbarium, the Lea Herbarium and others await similar 

 treatment and incorporation, but cannot receive it until new 

 quarters shall afford us the necessary i-pace. 



The various separate cryptogamic collections received during the 

 Academy's long existence, should be consolidated, excepting the 

 published exsiccake, which it would be better to retain in library 

 form. As this must be a work of time, a temporary index to the 

 species in each division, is of great importance. Dr. Eckfeldt has 




502 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



given us this aid in regard to the Lichens, and Dr. Ida S. Kellar is 

 now engaged in preparing for us this necessary key to our several 

 collections of marine Algse. May we not hope for an early com- 

 pletion of similar work upon the Mosses, Hepaticse and Fungi ? 

 Respectfully submitted, 



John H. Redfield, 



Conservator. 



REPORT OF THE MINERALOGICAL AND GEOLOGI- 

 CAL SECTION. • 



The meetings of the Section with the Academy have been held 

 regularly every other month during the year, in addition to which 

 several distinct meetings have also been held. The attend- 

 ance has not been large in numbers, the membership of the Section 

 being quite small, but the interest has been considerable and the 

 additions to the cabinet, while not as great as in some former years, 

 have been satisfactory. The Director regrets to say that there do 

 not seem to be many of the younger members of the Academy inter- 

 ested in mineralogy and geology, so that the membership instead 

 of increasing has decreased. 



It is proposed during the spring of 1892 to inaugurate a series of 

 excursions, which it is hoped may serve, not only to interest the 

 members, but also to so attract the attention of others not members 

 that they may be induced to become such. 



Respectfully submitted, 



Theo. D. Rand, 



Director. 



REPORT OF THE ORNITHOLOGICAL SECTION. 



The Ornithological Section was formally organized Sept. 14th, 

 1891, permission having been previously granted by the Academy. 



The primary objects in organizing the Section were the encourage- 

 ment of ornithological study at the Academy and the improve- 

 ment and enlargement of its ornithological collections. 



The collection numbering some 30,000 specimens is one of the 

 finest in the world, and is probably the best general collection in 




1891.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 503 



this country, while the large number of type specimens makes it 

 extremely valuable. 



The arrangement of the collection is, however, still in accordance . 

 with the ideas of forty years ago. That is to say, nearly all the 

 specimens are mounted and crowded into exhibition cases, where 

 they are not only exposed to light and dust but are very incon- 

 venienD for study. Until within the past year or two no provision 

 has been made for a collection of skins such as constitutes the 

 most important part of all the great ornithological collections of 

 to-day. 



In consideration of these facts it seems of the greatest impor- 

 tance that the large series of duplicates which now crowd the 

 museum cases should be unmounted, leaving of course enough 

 specimens to illustrate all the various types of bird life, as well as a 

 collection of all the species of North American birds in their 

 different seasonal plumage and a complete series of the birds of 

 Pennsylvania and New Jersey with their nests and eggs. The 

 specimens that are unmounted can be placed in air tight cases of 

 drawers where they will be easily available for study and forever 

 safe from the ravages of insects or exposure to the light. The 

 specimens retained in the museum, on the other hand, can be 

 remounted where it is necessary and the old stands can be renewed 

 or repainted. The exhibition series thus improved will undoubtedly 

 prove much more interesting and instructive than the maze of 

 specimens which is now exhibited and w^hich tends to coiifuse the 

 general visitor. The space gained by the removal of the duplicates 

 will enable the wall cases to be dispensed with and the amount of 

 light obtained in the gallery will be thus greatly increased. The 

 plan outlined is the one that has been adopted in all the large 

 museums and is everywhere heartily endorsed. During the present 

 year part of the North American collection has been renovated in 

 the way above described and the improvement in its appearance is 

 at once appreciated by those who visit the museum. 



In addition to the remounting of 900 specimens of North 

 American birds the Conservator has during the past year identified 

 and catalogued the specimens of Icteridae contained in the museum 

 numbering 460 specimens and, with the assistance of Mr. Wright, 

 has about finished the cataloguing of the Cairebidae. The catalogue 

 of the mounted collection now reaches number 3920, the families- 

 that have been previously catalogued being the Corvidse, Para- 




504 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



disseidse, Oriolidte, Dicrurid?e, Campophagidse, Muscicapida; and 

 all the families of Raptores. 



The collection of skins has been steadily increasing. Starting in 

 1888 with the collection of Dr. W. L. Abbott it now numbers up- 

 wards of 5000 specimens. Of these 2213 have been relabelled and 

 catalogued and the labelling of the remainder will soon be com- 

 pleted. The cases in. which this collection is contained are over- 

 crowded and additional ones are greatly needed to accommodate the 

 new specimens which are received, as well as the duplicates which it 

 is desired to remove from the exhibiiion cases. 



The additions to the ornithological collection since the organiza- 

 tion of the Section have been considerable and many of them of 

 great value. 



The most important acquisition is the collection of birds of 

 Florida, Texas and Arizona presented by Mr. Samuel N. Rhoads. 

 These specimens, numbering over 900, were collected by Mr. Rhoads 

 during April, May and June, 1891, on a trip through the south 

 and west. Mr. Rhoads took especial pains to obtain specimens of 

 such species as were not before contained in the Academy's collec- 

 tion, and through his efforts the North American series is now much 

 more nearly complete than ever before. In addition to the presen- 

 tation of this valuable collection Mr. Rhoads has arranged with 

 collectors in the west to furnish desirable specimens to the Academy 

 and has in many ways advanced the interests of the Ornithological 

 Section. 



The West Greenland Expedition brought back a collection of 

 160 specimens of Arctic birds collected by Drs. Wm. E. Hughes 

 and Benjamin Sharp. These included representatives of 33 species 

 many of which are of great interest. 



Mrs. J. L. Claghorn presented a collection of African and 

 Asiatic birds numbering 30 specimens among which were several 

 rarities. 



The Delaware Valley Ornithological Club which, by permission 

 of the Academy, has been holding its meetings in the building, has 

 given a collection of beautifully preserved nests of Pennsylvania 

 and New Jersey birds numbering 60 specimens. The eggs accom- 

 pany most of the nests and there are also several artistically 

 mounted groups of birds. It is the intention of the Club to add to 

 this collection from time to time until it shall contain specimens of 




1891.J 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



505 



the nests and eggs of all the birds of this vicinity together with 

 finely mounted groups of the birds themselves. 



Among the other specimens received were 18 Florida birds pur- 

 chased from W. S. Dickinson, 45 specimens of California birds 

 from R. B. Herron and 8 specimens from N. and S. Carolina as 

 well as various specimens presented by Mrs. E. B. Chamberlain, I. 

 N. DeHaven, Everett Palmer, I. C. Martindale, Dr. S. G. Dixon, 

 and the Philadelphia Zoological Society. 



Shortly after its organization the Section issued a circular solicit- 

 ing subscriptions to an Endowment Fund to ensure the permanent 

 welfare of the ornithological collection, the idea being to devote 

 the interest to the employment of a special Curator and to the 

 acquiring of additional specimens. A portion of the sum has 

 already been subscribed and it is hoped that the sum of $10,000 

 which is wanted for immediate use Avill soon be raised. 



As already mentioned the Delaware Valley Ornithological Club 

 has held its meetings in the Academy during the ])ast year. This 

 has had the effect of drawing the ornithologists of this vicinity 

 to the Academy and awakening an interest in the growth and 

 welfare of its ornithological collection. 



At the annual meeting of the Section held December 21st, the 

 following officers were elected : 



Director, ...... Spencer Trotter, 'SI. D. 



Vice- Director, 



Recorder, 



Secretary, 



Treasurer, 



Conservator, 



George S. ]Morris. 

 Samuel N. Rhoads. 

 Charles E. Ridenour. 

 Isaac C. Martindale. 

 Witmer Stone. 

 WiTMER Stone, 



Consey-vator. 



REPORT OF THE PROFESSOR OF INVERTEBRATE 

 PALEONTOLOGY. 



The Professor of Invertebrate Paleontology respectfully reports 

 that the collections in his charge have undergone no material 

 change, beyond increase, since the preparation of his last annual 

 report. The lack of room, from which all departments of the 

 Academy about equally suffer, has prevented any attempt being 

 made toward placing the entire collection into systematic sequence, 




506 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



an arrangement required by the extensive additions of the last 

 few years^-nor will there be any opportunity for so doing until the 

 completion of the new building. Much of the material, probably 

 not less than one-fourth, is stored away in drawers, and is in a 

 measure inaccessible. This applies more particularly to the foreign 

 collection, mainly English and French, among which are to be 

 found a large number of the " types " of the earlier geologists and 

 paleontologists. It is needless to comment upon the value of this 

 series and the importance of placing it where it can be readily 

 reached by the student and specialist. 



The paleontological material obtained by the Academy's Expedi- 

 tion to Mexico in the early part of 1890, to which reference has 

 been made in the last annual report, has been placed in the museum 

 cases. It forms the basis of two papers by the author, which have 

 been published in the "Proceedings" of the Academy: — "The 

 Geology and Paleontology of the Cretaceous Deposits of Mexico," 

 and " Geological Researches in Yucatan." The material from 

 Yucatan is the first of any consequence that has been obtained from 

 that section of Central America, and establishes the existence in that 

 region of vast Pliocene deposits, synchronous with and representing 

 those of the southern part of the peninsula of Florida. 



The usual spring course of lectures in the department of the Pro- 

 fessor of Invertebrate Paleontology has been delivered as in previous 

 years (excepting 1890), the lectures, 25 in number, being attended 

 by a class of 35 students. 



Respectfully submitted, 



Angelo Heilprin, 

 Professor of Invertebrate Paleontology. 



REPORT OF THE PROFESSOR OF ETHNOLOGY AND 

 ARCHEOLOGY. 



The Professor of Ethnology and Archaeology submits his annual 

 report upon the course of instruction and the condition of the col- 

 lections in his department in 1891. 



The lectures delivered by him were six in number, free to the 

 public, illustrated with maps and diagrams. The topic treated was 

 the Ethnology of Modern Europe. The attendance was large, and 

 a general interest in the subject appeared to have been fostered. 




1891.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELI'IIIA. 507 



The collections in this department have not been materially 

 increased during the year. The American Philosophical Society 

 has withdrawn its deposit of the Peale collection. It is believed, 

 however, that as soon as adequate space is provided for the display 

 of objects in Ethnology and Archseology, they can readily be 

 obtained from members of the Academy and their friends. 



D. G. Brintox, 

 Professor of Ethnology and Archceology. 



REPORT OF THE PROFESSOR OF INVERTEBRATE 



ZOOLOGY. 



The Professor of Invertebrate Zoology respectfully reports that 

 he has presented a collection of Anellides, Mollusca and Crustacea 

 collected by him in the Mediterranean, as well as some trays of 

 shells collected in the Caribbees. 



During the past year he delivered six lectures on the " Principles 

 of Zoological Philosophy " and one on the " Volcanoes of the West 

 Indian Group," most of which were illustrated by lantern slides. 



It is proposed to give a course on general zoology during the 

 coming spring. 



Having been appointed Zoologist-in-Charge of the West Green- 

 land Expedition, he spent two months collecting on the shores of 

 North Greenland, a small part only of the collection having as yet 

 been presented. This part consists of the Crustacea, which were 

 collected by himself and Dr. W. E. Hughes, the ornithologist of 

 the Expedition. 



The additions to the museum during the past year have been 

 important. Several have been received from F. Stearns of Detroit, 

 Mich, including some new (type) species of Cirripeds andBrachiopods 

 described in the " Proceedings" by H. A. Pilsbry. 



The Echinoderms collected by W. J. Fox in Jamaica has been 

 presented. A fine series of Asterias vulgaris from Maine, have been 

 received from Dr. S. G. Dixon. 



Respectfully submitted, 



Benjamin Sharp, 

 Professor of Invertebrate Zoology. 




508 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1891, 



The election of Officei-s, Councillors and Members of the Finance 

 Committee, to serve during the year 1892, was held with the follow- 

 ing result: — 



. Isaac J. Wistar. 



Kev. Henry C. McCook, D. D. 



Thomas Meehan. 



Edward J. Xolan, M. D. 



Benjamin Sharp, M. D. 



Isaac C. IMartindale. 



Edward J. I^olan, M. D. 



AV. S. ^y. Ruschenberger, U. D. 



H. C. Chapman, M. D. 



S. G. Dixon, M. D. 



Angelo Heilprin. 



President, . 

 Vice-Presidents, . 



Recording Secretary, . 

 Corresponding Secretary, 

 Treasurer, . . . 



Librarian, 

 Curators, 



Councillors to serve three 

 years, 



Finance Committee, 



J. Bernard Brinton, ]M. D. 

 Theodore D. Rand, 

 Gavin W. Hart, 

 Geo. H. Horn, :\r. D. 

 Chas. P. Perot, 

 Chas. Morris, 

 Chas. E. Smith, 

 Gavin W. Hart, 

 Uselma C. Smith. 



ELECTIONS DURING 1891. 



MEMBERS. 



January 27. — Stewardson Brown, Thomas Hewson Bradford, 

 ^I. D., Amos Peaslee Brown, Edmund E. Reed, Jr., Albert P. 

 Brown, M. D., Geo. C. Evans, Mary S. Holmes. 



February 24. — Wm. C. Carrick, Henry T. Coates, Wm. S. Stew- 

 art, M. D., Samuel N. Rhoads, Richard I). Barclay. 



March ol. — Edgar Strayer, M. D., William D. Robinson, M. D., 

 R. E. Peary, U. S. N., Geo. S. Morris. 



April 28. — Edwin Corlies Atkinson, Witmer Stone, Robert P. 

 Morton, John Arschagouni, M. D. 




1891.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 509 



May 26. — George M. Beringer, Joseph Crawford, Arthur Ames 

 Bliss, M. D., William J. McGinty. 



Jime 30.— William J. Serrill, B. Alexander Randall, INI. D. 



July 28. — John L. Kinsey, Charles W. Dulles, M. D. 



Sept. 29.— William E. Hughes, M. D., John Macfarlane, M. D. 



October .27.— Elizabeth Cartledge, Frank Miles Day, W. L. 

 Zuill, M. D., Hugh Lausat Willoughby, J. Harris Eeed, Wm. L. 

 Baily. 



November 24. — Richard Rossmiissler, Elizabeth Head, Harriet 

 Head. 



CORRESPONDENTS. 



April 28. — Charles Otis AVhitmau, Ph. D., of Worcester, Mass. 

 Ju7ie 30. — August Weissmann, of Freiburg, i | B., Elias Met- 

 schnikoff, of Dorpat, Russia. 




510 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



ADDITIONS TO THE MUSEUM. 



1891. 

 Arch.^ology, Ethnology, etc. 



Wm. L. Abbott. A collection of African weapons, amulets, bands, etc., from 

 Chaga, region of Mt. Kilima 'Njaro, Africa. 



C. W. Riley. Woven straw basket (native manufacture) from the Orange Free 

 State, .South Africa. 



Benjamin Sharp. Human bone and piece of pottery from a mound in Western 

 Pennsylvania. 



Ellen I. Ellison. Laplander's shoes, cap, mitts, etc. from opposite Tromso, 

 Norway. 



West Greenland Expedition, 1891. Twenty-three Eskimo skulls from Green- 

 land. Eskimo skeleton. A collection of Eskimo implements, utensils, etc., 

 including a kayak and sledge from the Arctic Highlanders of Cape York. 



Mammalia. 



Zoological Society of Philadelphia. Mounted specimens oi Armadillo sexcinchcs. 

 Lemur, sp ? Cercopithecus sabc^us, Macactts intiiis. Lemur macaco, Pithecia 

 monachus, Syiietheres insidiosus, Didilphys philander. Disarticulated skeletons 

 of Antilope cervicapra, Gulo luscus, Cercopithecus callitrichus, Felis leo, Felis 

 pardus, Cynocephalus hamadryas, Macacus inuus. Oryx leucoryx, Cervus 

 davia, Lemur macaco. Skulls of Antilocapra Americana, Gazella dorcas, 

 Meles taxus, Crossarckus obscurus, Erinaceus Europaus . 



Wm. L. Abbott. A collection of skulls and skins from Chaga, region of Mt. 

 Kilima 'Njaro, Africa. 



Fred'k Stearns. Alcoholic specimen of Vesperiif;o abramus from Japan. 



Henry C. Chapman. Disarticulated skeletons of Cavia porcellus. 



West Greenland Expedition of 1891. Two young (white) seals. Two skulls of 

 seals; 2 walrus skulls; polar-bear skull; reindeer skull; blue-fox skull. 



Birds. 



Zoological Society of Philadelphia. Skin of Imamus, sp ? Chionis alba ; disar- 

 ticulated skeletons of Grus antiqua, Struthio carnelus. 



C. W. Riley. Tail of the secretary bird, Irom the Orange Free State, S. Africa. 



S. G. Dixon. Eggs of Urinator itnber ; mounted specimen of Scotiaptex ciner- 

 euvi from Rhinelander, Wis. 



Benjamin Sharp. Egg of booby i^Sula. sp ?) 



Henry C. Chapman. Disarticulated skeleton of Phocnicopterus ruber. 



Mrs. E. B. Chamberlin. Bald eagle [Haliictus leucocephalus) and two eaglets, 

 with nest. 




1891.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 511 



Samuel N. Rhoads. A collection of 940 specimens of birds from Florida, Ari- 

 zona and Texas, collected by Mr. Rhoads in 1891. 



Delaware Valley Ornithological Club of Philadelphia, lo mounted birds, 54 

 nests and 17U eggs, presented as the first instalment of a collection of the birds 

 of Pennsylvania and New Jersey, with their nests and eggs, to be given by 

 the members of the Club to the Academy, and to be known as the '• Delaware 

 Valley C)rnithological Club Collection." 



Everett Palmer. Six nests of Pennsylvania birds, with eggs. 



Mrs. J. R. Claghorn. Collection of mounted birds, principally African and 

 Asiatic (including fine specimen oi Paradisea apoda.) 



West Greenland Expedition of 1891. 154 specimens of Arctic birds. Collection 

 of eggs of Arctic birds, (not yet placed in collection.) 



Reptiles and Amphihians. 



C. Coburn. Alligator Mississippiensis. 



Benjamin Sharp. Six species of snakes, and two species of lizards from the 



Windward Islands. 

 L. M. Jelovitz. Four species of snakes from Panama. 

 Zoological Society of Philadelphia. C7-otahis adamanteus var. atrox ; mounted 



specimen of Caiman sclei-ops. 

 I. C. Martindale. Xiphosoma hortidanum, captured on a logwood vessel from 



Jamaica. 

 Witmer Stone. Chelopus Muhlenbergii, mounted specimen. 

 Henry C. Chapman. Disarticulated skeleton of .-^/AVa/'cir Mississippiensis. 

 Mexican Expedition, 1890. Skulls of Chelonia viydas and Thalassochelys caretta, 



Progreso, Yucatan. Twenty-seven jars of reptiles and amphibians from Yucatan 



and Mexico. 

 W.J. Fox. Four jars of lizards from Jamaica; three species of reptiles and 



amphibians from Jamaica. 

 Alex McElwee. Tadpoles from Jenkintown, Pa. 

 Fred'k Stearns. Diemyctyhis pyrogaster, from Japan. 

 Samuel G. Dixon. Three species of snakes and one frog from Islesboro, Me. 



Fishes. 



Fred'k Stearns. Lower jaw of Cestracion Philippi. 



Miss Edith Ives. Mustelus hinnulus and Sphyrena zygcena, from Holly Beach, 



New Jersey. 

 W. J. Fox. 18 jars of fishes from Jamaica. 

 Samuel G. Dixon. Cyclopterus lunipus from Islesboro, Me. 



Recent Invertebrata (excluding Mollusca and Insecta.) 



Miss A. Peniston. Mellita sexforis from Bermuda. 

 Abbe Vathelet. Crab from China. 



Benjamin Sharp. Collection of invertebrates from the Mediterranean. 

 Fred'k Stearns. A collection of Echinodermata and Crustacea from Japan; a 

 collection of Echinodermata and Crustacea from the Bahamas, Mauritius, etc.; 




512 PROCEEDIXGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



Scalpelluvi Stearnsii (type, Pilsbry), one dry and tv/o alcoholic specimens 

 from Japan ; species of Balanus from S. E. coast of Japan ; a collection of 

 Echinoderms and Crustacea from California. 



H. A. Pilsbry. Caddis-fly tubes from Colorado. 



Isaac Burk. Alellita pentapora. 



J. Powell. Poriies asirceoides, from the harbor of Vera Cruz. 



P. H. Carpenter. Microscopical preparations of J'oraroinifera collected by the 

 Expedition of the " Porcupine" and " Lightning," and microscopical prepara- 

 tions of shells made by Dr. W. B. Carpenter to illustrate his British Associa- 

 tion reports. 



Wm. J. Fox. Four species of Echinoderms, four ."species of Centipedes, two 

 species of Scorpions, and six jars of worms and sponges from Jamaica. 



Gavin W. Hart. Large specimen oi Madrepora palmata from Jamaica. 



W. C. Jolinson. Astropecten artictilatus from St. Augustine, Fla. 



John Quigley. Leptogorgia virgtdala (?) from 25 miles outside of the Delaware 

 Breakwater. 



R. W. Sinclair. Two s^pecimens of Mygale Hentzii. 



\V. S. W. Ruschenberger. Tetraclita forosa from a whale. 



Sam'l G. Dixon. Numerous dried specimens of Asterias vulgaris and seven jars 

 of alcoholic invertebrates from Islesboro, Me. 



Anastasio Alfaro. Three species of gorgonians and one echinoid from Costa 

 Rica. 



Uselma C. Smith. Marine worm from Atlantic City, N. J. 



West Greenland Expedition of 1891. A collection of invertebrates (not yet fully 

 classified) from the West Coast of Greenland (furthest point north, approximate 

 Lat. 77° 430- 



Recent Invertebrata (Mollusca). 



W. L. Abbott. Fourteen species of shells from Zanzibar. 



Academy of Natural Sciences Expedition to Mexico (1890). Twenty-six 

 additional species of land shells not included in last year's report. 



Anastasio Alfaro. Eighty species from Costa Rica. 



Harrison Allen. Six species from Nantucket. 



American Association of Conchologists (presented through Mr. John H. Campbell, 

 President,) 762 trays of American shells, a list of which with names of donors has 

 been published in the Nautilus, January to December, 189L Contributions have 

 been received from the following members : G. W. Lichtenthaler, Blooming- 

 ton, 111.; Francisco E. Blanes, Key West, Fla.; E. R. Mayo, Boston, Mass.; 

 Elwood Pleas, Dunreith, Ind. ; Henry E. Dore, Portland, Oreg. ; Wm. 

 McCormick, Palm Beach, Fla.; John H. Briits, Clinton, Mo.; Dr. Wm. H. 

 De Camp, Grand Rapids, Mich.; F. C. Browne, Framingham, Mass.; Henry 

 Moores, Columbus, O. ; O. A. Crandali, Sedalia, Mo.; Geo. W. Dean, Kent, 

 O. ; James M. De Laney, Rochester, N. Y. ; Mrs. E. V. Gaylord, Detroit, 

 Mich.; I. Greegor, Jacksonville, Fla.; E. H. Ham, Blairsville, Pa.; Wm. J. 

 Fox, Philadelphia; Uselma C. Smith, Philadelphia; John Ford, Philadelphia; 

 W. S. Teator, Upper Red Hook, N. V. ; Dr. W. S. Strode, Bernadotte, 111. ; Geo. 




1891.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 513 



J. Streator, Garrettsville, O. ; J. A. Singley, Giddings, Tex.; Rev. H. \V. 

 Winkley, Saco, Me.; Mrs. M. B. Williamson, University, Cal.; Chas. Le 

 R.Wheeler, Cape May, N. J. ; E. H. Fiske, Santa Cruz, Cal.; Prof. Josiah 

 Keep, Mills College, Cal. ; G. D. Lind, St. Louis, Mo. ; Geo. T. Marston, 

 Green Bay, Wis. ; Mrs. Mary P. Olney, Spokane Falls, Wash. ; Joseph Willcox, 

 Philadelphia; Wm. J. McGinty, Philadelphia; Philip Nell, Philadelphia; Wm. 

 T. Raymond, Oakland, Cal.; Edw. W. Roper, Revere, Mass.; S. Raymond 

 Roherts, Glen Ridge, N. J.; Thos. Morgan, Somerville, N. J.; F. A. Sampson, 

 Sedalia, Mo.; John Shallcross, Philadelphia; C. Antoinette Shepard, New 

 Britain, Conn.; Dr. Wm. H. Rush, Philadelphia; J. J. White, Palm Beach, 

 Fla. ; Geo. W. Webster, Lake Helen, Fla. ; Prof. Henry A. Ward, Rochester, 

 N. Y.; H. A. Pilsbry, Philadelphia; Dr. V. Sterki, New Philadelphia, O. ; L. 

 H. Streng, Grand Rapids, Mich.; Albert Bailey, Chepachet, N. Y. ; W. L. 

 McDaniel, Tyler, Tex.; C. W. Johnson, Philadelphia; John H. Campbell, 

 Philadelphia. 



F. C. Baker. Two species marine shells. 



John H. Campbell. Ty^t?. oi Helix a>?ip/i!zona. PiLbry. Helix luchuana^ow. 



and Helix peliomphala Pfr. 

 H. F. Carpenter (through John Ford). Olivella rosalina Duel, from Bermuda, 



and 3 species of West Indian shells. 

 Conchological Section, by purchase, 250 species of Oriental land shells, 50 species 



of marine shells. 

 D. Coughanour. Seven species of shells from Texas. 

 J. C. Cox. Twenty-five species of Australian land shells and 3 species of 



marine shells, including a fine example of Cyprcea decipicns, and several un- 



figured and new species. 

 O. A. Crandall. Five species land shells from Missouri and Arkansas. 

 W. H. De Camp. Fourteen species from Panama and Michigan. 

 W. H. Dali. Eiitivela peyplexa Stearns n. sp. and Acmcea Dalliana Pihbry 



n. sp. 

 Miss Julie Finch. Helix albolabris, a heavy variety, from Chambersburg, Pa. 

 John Ford. Seventeen species of shells new to the Academy collection. 

 Wm. J. Fox. One hundred and thirty-five trays of shells and 14 bottles of alco- 

 holic moUusks from Jamaica. 4 trays of shells from New Jersey. 

 Mrs. C. M. Gaylord (through Mr. Ford). Triton gibbosus Brod. 

 A. W. Harnham. Twenty species of Canadian shells. 

 W. PL Hatch. Anodonta and Ca>?ipeloma from Lake Pulaski, Minn. 

 Chas. Hedley. Three species of Amnicolidae from Tasmania. 

 PL von Ihering. Thirty-four species of shells from Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil, 



all new to the collection of the Academy. 

 J. E. Ives. Species from New Jersey. 

 Chas. W. Johnson. Fasciolaria distans and four other Florida shells. 



G. W. Lichtenthaler. Lticapina crenulata, Lucapinella calloniarginata axid Gon- 

 iobasis plicifera in alcohol. 



W. L. MacDaniel (in exchange). Thirty species of Texas Unionida;. 

 J. H. Morrison. Helix neinoralis from Lexington, Va. 




514 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891, 



Chas. T. Musson (in exchange). Forty-one species of shells from Australia, 



mainly new to the collection. 

 Mrs. M. P. Olney. Fifteen species of California and Sandwich Island shells. 

 H. A. Pilsbry. Fourteen species of shells, ten being new to the collection. 

 W. J. Raymond. Natica elenm Reel., Panama. 

 John Ritchie, Jr. Two species of Helix from S. America, and 6 species from the 



West Indies, three of them, H. Ritchieana Pils., H. xanthophaes Pils., H. 



Maynardi Pils., new. 

 S. R. Roberts. Poiarnopyrgtts from New Zealand. 

 E. W. Roper. Four species of American shells. 

 Rev. J. Rowell. Three species from California. 



W. H. Rush. Thirty-one species from Madeira, Azores and St. Thomas. 

 Benj. Sharp. Ten species of marine shells from Tobago; 12 species land 



shells from Tobago and Trindad ; 1 alcoholic Bulimus oblongus. 

 B. Shimek. Two species from Iowa. 



Mr. C. T. Simpson. Zonites Sitnpsonii Pils., from Indian Territory. 

 H. Skinner. Turriiella sp. 



U. C. Smith. Litorina litorea L.. from Atlantic City. 

 Frederick Stearns. Forty-five species of Japanese shells mostly new to the 



collection, including the types often new species. 

 V. Sterki. Six species of fresh-water shells, from Ohio. 

 Witmer Stone. Twenty species of land and fresh-water shells from York Furnace, 



■Pa., Cape May, N. J., etc. 

 Frank Stout (deceased). Twenty-eight species of shells, new to the Academy 



collection. 

 J. W. Velie. Three species of Limtiisit/ce from Mich ; 3 sp. marine shells 



from Florida. 

 W. H. Weeks. Helix Jatnaicensis var. and several species from Long Island, 



New York. 

 S. W. Wright (in exchange). Twenty six species of New Zealand shells. 

 L. G. Yates. Helix Carpenteri var. Jndioensis Yates, type of var. 



Fossil Vertebrata. 



Joseph Jeanes. Protosphyi-ana penetrans from the Cretaceous of Kansas. 



James R. McKee. Teeth of Latnma elegans, Carcharodon megalodon. Mastodon 



Atnericaniis, and Mastodon, sp ? from Santee Beds, Beaufort Co., S. C. 

 Lawrence Johnson. Mastodon remains from the State of Pernambuco, Brazil 



(presented through J. Cheston Morris). 



Fossil Invertebrata. 



Joseph Willcox. Cardiiim laqnea/uni. Miocene of St. Mary's, Md. 



J. T. Rothrock. Collection of Miocene fossils from the James River, Va. 



J. E. Ives. Cephalopod from Henderson's Station, Montgomery Co., Pa. Silurian. 



W. W. Jefferis. Graptolithus ramosus Hall, from Fort Ann, N. Y. 



E. Pleas. Rimella laqueata from Claiborne, Ala., and Pentremites Godonii. 




1891.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 515 



Minerals, Rocks, etc. 



Mineralogical and Geological Section of the Academy. Brochantite from Frisco, 

 Utah; Descloizite and Vanadinite, Georgetown, New Mexico; Vanadinite, 

 Yuma Co., Arizona; Tourmaline, Cornwall, England ; Azurite and Malachite, 

 Bisbee, Arizona ; Quartz, Alexander Co., N. C. ; Calcite, Egremont, England ; 

 Ulexite, Nevada; Topaz, Japan ; Azurite, Bisbee, Arizona; Chalcopyiite, Falls 

 of French Creek, Pa. ; Gadolinite, Bluffton, Texas ; Barite, Cornwall, England ; 

 Barile, Sterling, Col. 

 W. W. Jefferis. Peristerite from Perth, Ontario; Calcite Coalfield, Germany; 

 Enslatite, Lancaster Co., Pa.; Cachalong, South Park, Col.; Garnets, Lisbon, 

 N. H. ; Quebec Shale ; Hudson River Slate from Fort Edward, N. Y. ; Quincy 

 Granite; Syenite from North Creek, Adirondack Mountains: Limestone and 

 Graphite, from near Fort Edward, N. Y. ; Hallite from Nottingham, Pa.; 

 Chondrodite, from Putman Co., N. Y. ; Gothite from Pike's Peak, Colorado; 

 Garnet from Russell. Mass.; Graphite in Calcite from Rogers Rock, Lake 

 George, New York; Garnet Rock from North Creek, Essex Co., N. Y. ; Grap- 

 tolites from Fort Edward, X. Y. and from Fort Ann, N. Y. ; Limonile, pseudo- 

 morph after Iron Pyrites, from East Whiteland, Chester Co., Pa. 



Theodore D. Rand. Corundum from Chester Co., Pa.: Slilbite from 

 Frankford, Phila. ; Zinc bloom from Bertha Mine, W. Virginia; Staurolite 

 from Philadelphia; Graphic Granite from Mineral Hill, near Media, Pa.; 

 Oligoclase, W. of Media, Pa. ; Asbestus from Lower Merion, Pa.; Picrolite 

 from Richmond, Quebec; Chrysotile from Radnor Sla., Delaware Co., Pa.; 

 Hydromica Schist, 1 mile N. of Paoli Sta., Chester Co., Pa.; Goslarite, 

 Friedensville, Pa.; Millerite in Dolomite, Phila.; Zoisite, Lafayette, Pa.; 

 Limonite,pseudomorph after Magneti'e ; Clintonite, Amity, N. Y. ; Serpentine, 

 pseudomorph after Asbestus, Delaware Co., Pa. ; Epidote, Frankford, Phila. ; 

 Laumontite, Phila. ; Staurolite, Ardmore, Pa.; Hornblende, Phila.; Lignite; 

 Tourmaline, Frankford, Phila.; Randite, Frankford, Phila.; Chrysotile, 

 Devon, Chester Co., Pa. ; Iron Pyrites in Lignite ; Ivigtite, Iviglut, Greenland ; 

 Hyalite, colored by Uranic oxide, Phila; Hyalite, colored by Uranic oxide, 

 Frankford, Phila.; Lepidomelane, Frankford, Phila.; sandstone, Chester Co., 

 Pa.; Epidote, Frankford, Phila.; Chrysocolla and Allophane, Cornwall, Pa.; 

 Randite, Frankford, Phila.; Chrysotile, Black Lake, Provmce of Quebec; 

 Torbernite, Phila. ; Quartz, pseudomorph after Asbestus, Marple, Delaware 

 Co., Pa. ; Garnet, West Phila. ; Molybdite and Molybdenite, Frankford, Phila. ; 

 Ankerite, E. Cain, Chester Co., Pa. ; Chrysotile, Black Lake, Province of 

 Quebec; Fibrolite : Chromite, Blue Hill, Delaware Co., Pa. ; Duelite, Lake 

 Co., Cal. ; Goslarite, Friedensville, Pa. 



Walter Conrad. Gypsum from St. Mary's River, Md. 



H. A. Pilsbry. Hematite from (?) Santiago, Cuba. 



J. Blodgett Britton. Collection of iron ores. 



Henry G. Ives. Apophyllite and Bornite from Frankford, Phila. ; Stilbile, 

 Frankford, Phila. ; Antholite, Devil's Pool, Wissahickon Creek, Phila. ; 

 Anthophyllite, Ridley Township, Delaware Co., Pa.; Aragonite from Jones 

 Mine, Berks Co., Pa. ; Epidote from Falls of French Creek, Pa.; Venerile 




516 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1891. 



from Jones' Mine, Berks Co., Pa.; Limonite from Chester Springs, Chester Co., 

 Pa. ; Melanite Garnets from French Creek Mine, Chester Co., Pa. ; Gypsum 

 (Seleniie) from Rock Springs, Washington ; Albertite from Albert Co., Nova 

 Scotia; Hematite, deposited in a wooden pipe from Eagle Head Mine, Schuyl- 

 kill Co., Pa.; Heulandite from McKinney's Quarry, Phila. ; Calcite from 

 Henderson's Sta., Montgomery Co. Pa. 



Geo. M. Stiles. Fragments of Cambrian boulders containing Scolithus linearis 

 from a Cutting at Barren Hill, Pa. 



E. Goldsmith. " Ringing Rock " (trap) from Bucks Co., Pa. 



E. Pleas. Oolites. 



W. J. Fox. Red cUy from the limestone of Portland, Jamaica. 



W. Kennedy, Jr. Porphyry from Scotland and Fulgurites from New Jersey. 



F. Lynwood Garrison. Bauxite from Saline Co., Ark. 



Henry C. Chapman. Lower Helderberg erratic from Mt. Desert, Me. 

 Mexican Expedition, 1890. Calcite from the Cave of Calcehtok, Yucatan. 

 Lewis Woolman. Gypsum from Nuttallburg, Fayette Co., W. Va. 

 Alex. C. Haverstick. Barite in Siderite Geode from Frostburg, Ind. 



Pl.\nts. 



W. W. Jefiferis. Ten species of plants from Fort Edward, N. V. 



Benjamin Sharp. Fruit of Anacardium occidentale L. (Cashew Nut) from 

 St. Vincent, W. L 



Edward L. Rand, Boston, Mass. One hundred and thirty-nine species of plants 

 from Mount Desert, Maine, and the adjacent islands, being a further portion of 

 a series intended as vouchers for a proposed Flora of Mt. Desert. Also a series 

 illustrative of the Sphagnacea; of the same district, consisting of twenty species, 

 fifty-six varieties and forms, all named by the specialist Karl Warnstoff. 



Edwin Faxon, Jamaica Plains, Mass. A series illustrative of the Sphagnaceae of 

 New England, consisting of twenty-seven species in eighty-five varieties and 

 forms, named by Warnstoff. 



T. V. Munson, Denison, Texas. A series illustrating his classification of the wild 

 grapes of North America, consisting of twenty-four species on forty-four sheets ; 

 also five species of foreign grape vines. 



Ellis and Everhart. Centuries 26 and 27 of North America Fungi, received in 

 exchange for duplicate Centuries heretofore received from estate of Dr. George 

 A. Martin. 



Witmer Stone. Sida Napcea Cav, from near York Furnace, York Co., Pa. 



Jose N. Rovirosa. Two hundred and nine species of plants from the States 

 of Tabasco and Chiapas, Mexico. 



U. S. Department of Agriculture. Seventy-six species of mosses collected in Cal- 

 ifornia by Henry N. Bolander 1864 to 1870, determined by Mrs. Britton ; 45 

 species of mosses, 15 species of lichens and 6 species of ferns collected in 

 Florida by Prof. L. M. Underwood. 



Charles R. King, Andalusia, Pa. Hortus Siccus Gramineus, or a collection of 

 one hundred and ten species of British grasses, mounted and bound in two vol- 

 umes with title pages; issued by William Curtis, London, in 1802. 




1891.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 517 



Roberts LeBoulillier. Thirteen species of tropical orchids from cultivation. 

 Frank S. Collins, Maiden, Mass. One hundred and twenty species of marine 



Algas, from coasts of New England and of California. 

 Miss A. G. Powers, Missionary at Erzeroum, Turkey in Asia. Fifty species of 



plants from vicinity of Erzeroum. 

 Geo. W. Holstein, through Thomas Meehan. Astragalus Reverchcni Gr. from 



Shackleford Co., Texas. 

 John Donnell Smith, Baltimore, Md. One hundred and sixty-one s] ecies of 



plants, collected (mostly by himself) in Guatemala in 1889 and 1890. 

 Miss Jeanie F. Waddington, through Thos. Meehan. Cypripedium pubescens and 



Trillium grandijioruyn from Jefferson Co., Ohio. 

 Sereno Watson, Harvard Herbarium. One hundred and seventy-one species 



of pi ants mostly from Central and Northern Asia. 

 W. L. Abbott. Nut o'i Lodoicea Sechellarum, from the Seychelles Klands. 

 John McFarlane. Utriailaria gibba L. from Penn's Grove, N. J. 

 Mrs. Willis, Dalton, Georgia. Monotropa uniflora L. from that place. 

 Leopold Krug. Royal Botanical Museum, Berlin. Four hundred and foily- 



six species of West India plants, mostly from Porto Rico and St. Domingo. 

 H. N. Bellows. Specimens of Phallus impudicus in alcohol, from Hunting- 

 don Valley, Montgomery Co., Pa. 

 A. A. Heller, Lancaster Co., Pa. Twenty-six species of plants mo>tly from the 



mountams of North Carolina. 

 Expedition to Greenland, organized by Academy of natural Sciences, Prof Angelo 



Heilprin in charge, Dr. W. H. Burk, Botanist. Eighty species of phanerogamic 



plants and eleven species of lichens from west coast of Greenland, and twenty 



species of plants from Sidney, Cape Breton. 

 N. L. Britton, Columbia College Herbarium. Clematis Addisonii Britton and 



Anemone trifolia L. from Virginia. Thirty-one species of Cyperacese 



from British Guiana. 

 John K. Small. Forty-eight species of plants from Lancaster Co., Pa. 

 Thos. C. Porter, Lafayette College, Pa. Twenty species of Pennsylvania plants. 

 Uselma C. Smith. Four species of plants from Florida. 

 Thomas Meehan. Eighty-seven species of plants from various regions, mostly 



cultivated exotics. Two hundred and twenty-nine species of plants collected 



in Paraguay by Dr. Thomas Morong in 1888-1800. 

 John H. Redfield. One hundred and twenty-one species of plants collected by 



Dr. Thomas Morong in the desert of Atacama, 1890. 291 species of plants 



collected by C. G. Pringle in 1890, in the States of Jalisco, Chihuahua, &c., 



Mexico, in 1890. Four decades (40 species) of Underwood & Cook's N. 



American Hepaticje. 185 species of plants collected by A. A. Heller in 



the mountains of North Carolina in 1890. 



Fossil Plants. 



Norfolk and Western R. R. Co. Fossil tree trunk from the coal measures of 

 Virginia. 




INDEX TO GENERA, ETC. 

 1891. 



Abies 434 



AcaiUhinula 313 



Accipiter 435 



Acer 7ti, 82, 434 



Achelous 192, 199, 200 



Aclis 259 



Acli.sina 359 



Acma?a 54 



AcmjEida' 54 



Acnida 89 



Aci sea 433 



Aciteonina 2H3 



Actitis 435 



Adelonycteris 466 



Ad.'cus 428, 429 



Adocidae 420 



Aegina 481 



^gopogon 306 



Aeruloedus 449 



^sculus 78 



Agelaius 436 



Agomphus 429 



Agriochoerus 361 



Agrostis 300 



Alisma 88 



Allacodon 130-135 



Allodon 130 



AleodontidDe 130 



Allotheria 238, 239 



Alpheus 183, 199, 200, 2()2 



Amblystoma 463 



Amia 418 



Ammod ramus ] IS 



Amnicolidre 327 



Ammonitidpe 160 



Amijelis 436 



Ampelopsis 275 



Amphichelydia 423 



Amphiem)s 429 



Amphiura' 339, 479 



Ampullaria 325, 326, 333 



Ampullariida? 325 



Amussium 142, 143 



Ancliippus 368 



Anchistoma 313 



Anchitherium 3G2, 368 



Anctus 97 



Ancvlus 321 



51 



Andropogon 293, 306 



Anemone 433 



Angelica 87 



Anolis 459, 462 



Anomia 46, 142 



Anomiidae 46 



Anonyx 480 



Anoplolherium 361 



Antrostomus 435 



Aphelocoma 444 



Aple.\a 324, 325 



Aralia 85 



Area 45, 46, 142, 143 



Arcania 210 



Arcliieocidaris 245 



Archeotherium 361 



Arcidoe 46 



Arcturus 480 



Arnica 85 



Artemis 143 



Artemisia 87 



Arundinella 294 



Asaphis 48 



Ascaris 236 



Ascohry nchus 21 9-22 1 



Astartella 250 



Aster 272 



Asierias 212, 337, 480 



Asterina 212 



Asteroidea 211, 337 



Astralium 54, 473 



Astrapia. 448 



Asiropecten 211, 337-339 



Astrophyton 340 



Atergaiis 215 



Atylus 479, 480 



Athyris...! 244 



Auriculida; 318 



Avicula 46, 248 



Aviculidae 46 



Aviculopecten 248 



Baculites 159, 160 



Baena 422,425-428 



Balgenoptera 474-478 



Balanu.s 355 



Baptemys 428, 429 



Basanite 99 



Bellerophon 254, 255 



8 




1891.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



519 



Belosloma 355 



Betula 434 



Bidens 271, 272 



Bipalium li:0-122 



Bittium 53 



Bolodon 130, 289 



Bonasa 435 



Bothremydidae 424 



BolodontidK 135 



Bothremys 3«7, 423 



Bottosaurus 366 



Bouteloua 3()2, 3t)H 



Brachynotus 216 



Brachyphylla 402 



Brachyi odium 305 



Briza 3(l5 



Broinus 308 



Brontotlierium 362 



Pucci n idae .50 



Buccinum 261 



Bufo 461, 463 



Buliniella 263 



Bulimoipha 263, 264 



BiiiimuHdae 315 



Bulimulus 315, 333 



Bulimus 317 



Bulla 49, 142 



BuUidK 49 



Cadulus 49 



Csecidre 53 



Ckcuiu 53 



Calamoichtliys 418 



Calappa 1!<2, 199, 200 



Calcite 465 



Calliostoma 54 



Calocitta 442 



Calyptrasidse 54 



Camarophor ia 247 



Camptomus 124, 131, 133 



Cancel laria 50 



Cancellariidae 50 



Cancer 181, 19(», 192, 215 



Carcharodon 364 



Carchesium 10 



Cardiidae 4" 



Cardita 47 



Carditidse 47 



Cardium 47, 142, 143 



Carex 80, 84 



Carocolus 333 



Carpinu^ 83, 91 



Carya 82, 90 



Carychium 318-320 



Cassididae 52 



Cassis 52 



Ceanotbus 84 



Celtis 82 



Ceophloeus 435 



Cephalopoda 55 



Cercospora 85, 88-91 



Cercosporella 91 



Certhia 438 



Cerithidea 53, 145 



Cerithiidie 53 



Ceri thiopsidae 53 



Ceri thiopsis 53 



Cerithiu m 53 



Cervus, 234 



Cesiracion HHo 



Chrerodes 357 



Clmeropsis 357 



Chalcopy rite 464 



Chama 47, 143 



Chamida.' 47 



Chascolytrum 305 



Chelidoii 436 



Chelone 366, 413 



Chelonia 417, 419, 458 



Cheloniidae 417 



Chelonobia 189, 199, 2(i0 



ChelviidK 417, 420, 424 



Clie'.vdra 413, 422, 426 



Chelydridii; 417, 423 



Chelys 421, 422, 426, 4i7 



Chelytherium 423 



Chiroderma 402-41)5 



Chirolophis 105 



Chirox 130 



Christernon 425 



Chilracephalus 416 



Clilamydodera 449 



Chlorinoides 215 



Chloris 88, 306 



Chlorostoma 54 



Chomatodus 865 



Chondrioderma 390 



Chondropoma 331 



Chonetes 244, 246, 247 



Chorinus 215 



Chrysochloris 132 



Cicuta 83 



Cidaris 337 



CilicEea 188 



Cimoliasaurus 366 



Cimolodon 126, 133 



Cimolodontidse 126, 127 



Cimolomidie 126, 127 



Cimolomys 124-134 



Cimolestes 1 3 1-1 35 



Cinnurus 448 



Cinosternidje 417, 419, 420, 423 



Circaea 434 



Cirolana 186, 187, 199, 200 



Cirripedia 189 



Cissa 441, ^42 



Cissolopha 444 




520 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[18!» 



Cistula 331 



Clasterisponum 87, 91 



Clibananus... .182, 183, 193, 198-200 



Cliona 122 



Clidophorus 250 



Clintonia 434 



Closterium 351 



Cnemidophoru-' 459 



Coccyzus .• 435 



Cochliodu> 365 



Cuchliopa 331 



Colaptes 435 



Colpochely- 425 



Columbella 51 



ColumbelIid;v 51 



Comandra .. 90 



Comatiicba 392, 3»3 



Compsemvs 41 1 , 418-427 



Conch(jle[);is 59 



Conidae 49 



Conus 45, 49 



Coniosporiiim 87 



Contopus 43f) 



Coptis 433, 434 



Coracia 447 



Coralliopliila 45, 51, 59 



Cornularia 77 



Cornu^i 79, 85 



Ci)rlicium 87 



Corvidse 441 



Corvinae 441, 445 



Corvus 94, 436, 445-447 



Corvultu r 445 



Corydalu- 355 



Coryneum 82 



Corynorhinus 467-470 



Coturniculus 118 



Ciepidula 54 



Cribraria 393, 394 



Cribrella 212 



Ciucibulum 54 



Crustacea 215 



Crypsirliina 441 



Cryptodira 414, 419, 422 



Ciyptodromia 216, 217 



Cryptorhina 441 



Ctenacodon 130 



Ctenoptychiu> 365 



Ctenosaurus 459 



Ciiphea 281 



Cyanoceph al us 44 7 



Cyanocitt a 436, 444 



Cyanolyca 444 



Cyanocornx 443 



Cyanopolius 441, 442 



Cyathophyllum 244 



Cyclophoridii; 325 



Cyclophoius 325 



Cyclostomida^ 331 



Cyclotus..., 325 



Cyclura 366 



Cylindrella 315, 316 



Cylindrellidce 315 



Cylindrosporium 83 



Cymodocea 188, 189-2i 



Cyperus 81 



Cyprrea 52, 143 



Cypasidae 52 



Cypiipedium 434 



Cyrena 48 



Cyrenidee 48 



Cy tispora 93 



Danthonia 301 



Daphne 281 



Decopoda 178, 189, 191 



Deltodus 265 



Dendrocitta 441 



DendrocittiriK 441 



Dendroica 437 



Dendryphium 92 



Dentalii!a; 49 



Dentalium 49, 251, 252 



Dermalemydidn; 417, 420, 423 



Dermatemys 428 



Dermochelyiidx- 417, 419 



Deschampsia 30(l 



Diadema 214 



Dianema 397 



Dichaena 86 



Dicoty 1 es 365 



Didelphodun 131 



Diddphops 131-135 



Didelphys 131 



Didymella 79 



Dioscoi ea 8 ) 



Diplodia 79 



Diphyllodes 4-18 



D i placli n e 303 



Dipriodon 124, 128, 130, 132, 133 



Dipteracanihus 272, 274 



Discosaurus 366 



Distoma 234, 23-^ 



Disiorsio 52 



Docidium 351 



Dolabra 249 



Doliidje 52 



Dolium 52, 143 



Donacidae 48 



Donax 48 



Dorippe 216 



Dosinia 47 



Dothidea 88 



Drepaiiodon 362 



Drillia 49 



Dromatheriu m 237 



Dryobates 435 




1891.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF I'HILADELPHIA. 



521 



Dryolestes 131, 133 



Dryophis 46il 



Duncania 1261 



Dynamene 188 



Echinanthus 214, 337 



Echinarachnius 215 



Echinaster 339 



Echinoidea 214, 337 



Echinometra 337 



Edaslus 364, 365 



Elephas 120 



Emydida; 417, 420. 423 



Emys 366, 4S8 



Engina 50, 61 



Enterobryus 353 



Epicampes 299 



Epidochium 93 



Epimachinaa 447 



Epimachus 448 



Equus 368 



Eragrostis 304, 308 



Erato 52 



Erechtites 80 



Eiianthus 292 



Eriocheir 216 



Euastrinn 351 



Eucalodium 315 



Eucoryne 352 



Eucratopsis 179, 198, 200 



Euderma 467 



Eudesia 165-171, 172-174 



Eulimidje 52 



Euomphalus 256 



Eupachy crinus 244 



Eupagurus 193, 199, 200, 218 



Euplectella 852 



Eurysternum 425 



Eustachys 88 



Eut aenia 462 



Exosporium 93 



Fasciolaria 5() 



Fasciolariida; 50 



Ficus 79 



Fisfurella 55 



Fissurellidae 55 



Footeite 289 



Fraxitius 78, 93 



Fregilinse 441, 447 



Fulgur .50, 143 



Fusarium 93 



Fusicladium 87, 91 



Fusulina 245 



Galeoscoptes 437 



Galinsoga 272 



Gammarus 480 



Garrulinas 441, 442 



Garrulus 441, 445 



Gasteropoda 49 



84 



Gelasimus 179, 180, 192, 198-200 



Geothlypis 437 



Gervillia 248 



Geum 433 



Glandina 311 



Glceosporium 82 



GlosFophaga 451 



Glyphis 55 



Glyptops 413 



Gnaihodon 48 



GnathodontidK 48 



Gnaihopsis 364 



Goniaiites 264 



Goniocidaris 214 



Goniosoma 215 



Graphite 464 



Grapsus 181, 100, 198, 200, 216 



Gymnocorax 445 



Gymnorhininae 441 



Habenaria 434 



H adrosaurus 366 



Haliieeius 435 



Ha!odon..l24, 126, 127, 129, 130, 133 



Haminea 49 



Haplosporella 78 



Harpurhynchus 437 



Helen ium 76 



Helice 216 



Helicidie 313 



Helicina 332 



Helicinidie 332 



Helicoma 93 



Helicosporium 93 



Helix 144, 313, 406, 456 



Helminthophila 443 



Helochelys 424 



Helodus.' 365 



Hemiarcyiia 395-397, 407 



Hemarthria 293 



Hemitrochus 456 



Heterodon 236 



Hexagrammus 10.5 



Hilaria 293 



Hippa 181, 182, 198, 200 



Hipparion 368 



Hippolyte 193, 199, 200 



Hippopotamus 357 



Hipponoe 337 



Hi-tiotus 4B7 



Holoptychius 364 



Hordeiim 308 



Houstonia 89 



Hyalinia 406 



Hybodus 240 



Hydromagne>-ite 464 



Hyposaurus 366 



lanthina 52 



lanthinidie 52 




522 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1891. 



Icteria 437 



Icterus 436 



Iguana 366 



Iguanodon 366 



Ilex 434 



Impatiens 86, 434 



Inachus 255, 256 



Inoceramus 159 



Iphigenia 48 



Isopoda 185 



Julus 353 



Junco 436 



Kalmia 88 



Laganum 214 



Lambrus 215 



Laniidre 441 



Laqueus 170 



Lathyrus 81, 91 



Latirus 50 



Leersia 296 



Lepachys 271 



Lepas 189 



Lepidochelys 425 



Lepidosteus 418 



Leptochloa 302-304 



Leplodactylus 461 



Leptognathus 460 



Leptostromella 79 



Leucosia 216 



Leurocephalus 107-1 16 



Libinia 178, 191, 198-200 



Ligia 185, 199, 200 



Liguidse 317 



Liguus 317 



Lima 46, 248 



Limacidse 312 



Limidse 46 



Limnsea 320, 321, 333, 406 



LimnseidDe 320 



Limnohyops 1 07-1 1 6 



Limnohyus 106-116, 362 



Limulus 189, 199, 200, 203 



Linaria 269 



Liackia 339 



Liomera 190, 199, 200 



Litiopa 53 



Litiopidae 53 



Littorina 45, 53, 257, 356 



Littorinidse 53 



Lophorhina 448 



Lonicera 433 



Lopezia 282 



Lophodermium 79 



Laphophyll um 244 



Loripes 47 



Loxonema 254, 259, 260 



Lucina 45, 47, 142. 143 



Lucinidae 47 



Luidia 211, 339 



Lupa 190 



Lutricola 48 



Lycopus 76 



Lyonsia 48 



Lyonsiidce 48 



Lyreidus 218 



Machairodus 362 



Macoma 48, 143 



Macroceramus 145, 316 



Macrocheilus 260 



Macrochelys 415 



Macrochilina 260 



Macrochlamys 456, 457, 473 



Macrodon 248 



Macroglossa 451 



Macrophthalmus 216 



Macrosporium 92 



Mactra 48 



Mactridse 48 



Madrepora 190 



Magasella 167-170 



Maia 189 



Maja 215 



Malachite 291 



Manucodia 448 



Mangilia 49 



Marginella 50, 142, 145 



Marginellidse 50 



,Marconia 84 



Mastodon 239 



Med icago 90 



Megalonyx 363 



Megastachya 304 



Megatherium 363, 364, 371 



Megerlia 167, 174 



Meiolania 426 



Melampus 320 



Melilotus 89 



Melongena 50 



Melospiza 436 



Menippe 178, 191, 198-200 



Meniscoessus 128-135, 240 



Merula 438 



Merychippus 368 



Mesodon 313 



Metriorhynchus 421 



Micrasterias 351 



Microchia 302, 304 



Microconus 314 



Microphrys 178, 198, 200 



Microphvsa 313 



Mikania! 90 



Mithraculus 189, 199, 200 



Mithrax 215 



Mitra 50 



Mitrid£e 50 



Mniotilta 437 




1891.] 



NATURAL SCIEXCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



523 



Modiola 46 



Modulidce 53 



Modulus 53 



Mola 66, 69 



Molinia 303 



Moiioculus 189 



Monotremala 4-1 



Mosasaurus 366 



Muhlenbergia 297, 298, 300 



Murchisonia 254 



Murex 51, 56, 142 



Muricidas 51 



M uscovite 4h5 



My iarchus 43o 



Mylodon 364 



Mytilidje 4(> 



Mytilus 46, 2')0 



Naesa 188 



Nanomys 126, 133 



Nardoa 212 



Nassa 51 



Nassidie 51 



Nalica 54 



Naiicid^e 54 



Naticopsis 257 



Negundo 89 



Neoplagiaulax 126, 130 



Neptunus 19U, 199, 200 



Nerita 55 



NeritidtK 54 



Neritina 55 



Nuci fraga 447 



Nucula 248 



Nycteris 336 



Ocinebra 51, 57 



Ocypoda....l79, 19U, 192, 198, 199, 

 200, 216 



Oleacina 333 



Oliva 50, 97, 143 



Olivella 50 



Olividae .50 



Ophiactis 339 



Ophibolus 236 



Opiiiocten 480 



Opliioglypha 480 



Ophioplocus 213 



Ophiothrix 340 



Ophiura 339, 480 



Ophiuroidea 212 



Opuntia 82 



Oracodon 131, 133, 134 



Orbicella 177 



Orchid 434 



Oreodon 361, 362 



Oriolidffi 449 



Oriolus 449, 450 



Orthalicus 317 



Orthoclase 4(35 



Oryzosoma 311 



Osmorrliiza 89 



Ostiea 46, 142, 143 



Ostraiidse 46 



Oxalis 434 



Pachyurapsus 181. 199, 200 



Pachypoma 473 



Paguius 193 



Palaimonella 183, 184, 199, 300 



Palismontes 194, 199. 200 



Palaeosyops 106-117 



Paleosyops 362 



Paleotherium 306, 362, 368 



Paludina 327 



Panicum 295, 296 



Panopeus 178, 191, 198-200 



Pan topoda 218 



Paradigalla 448 



Paradisea 448 



Paradiseidse 441 , 447 



Paradiseinas 448 



Parahippus 368 



Paramelaconite 284 



Paramoecium 65 



Pareiosaurus 423 



Parkinsonia 77 



Parus 438 



Parotia 448 



Parthenope 215 



Paspalum 82, 295 



Passerculus 118 



Passerina 436 



Patula 313, 333 



Pecten 46, 142, 145 



Peclenidae 46 



Peciinura 215 



Pectunculus 143 



Pediomys 131, 133, 134 



Pelecypoda 46 



Pelomedusa 417, 423 



Peltandra 88 



Peltocephalus 417, 418 



Penjeus 190, 191, 194, 199, 2(l0 



Peniophora 92 



Pentaceros 339 



Pericera 178, 198, 200 



Peiieilema 298 



Perisoreus 445 



Perna 46 



Peronella 215 



Peronospora 86 



Persephona 192, 199, 200 



Petasites 76, 81 



Phascolotherium 238 



Phasianella 54 



Pha^ianellidtE 54 



Pheronema 352 



Philohela 435 




524 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1891. 



Philyra 216 



Phleospora 81 



Pholaduhis 48 



Pholas 48 



Phonygama 448 



Ph ry nosoma 462 



Phyllosticta 76, 77 



Physa 322-324 



Physarum 389 



PhysidK .■ 322 



Pica 441, 442 



Picatliarles 441, 445 



Picicorvus 447 



Pilumnus 178, 198, 200 



Pinna 46, 142 



Pipilo 436 



Piranga 436 



Pisa 178, 215 



Pisania 50 



Pisidium 406 



PlagiaulacidK 126, 133, 134, 239 



Plagiaulax 127, 134, 239 



Plagi optycha 456 



Planaxidre 53 



Planaxis 53 



Planorbis 321 



Planorbula 322 



Platychelys 419, 423, 428 



Platacodon 132, 133 



Platygonus 365 



Platylophus 445 



Piatysmurus 44 1 



PlatysternidK 417, 420, 423 



Platystoma 257 



Pleurodira 414, 420-424 



Pleurophorus 250 



Pleurosternum 424 



Pleurotomai ia 252-254 



Pleurotoniid;v 49 



Pleuronecle< 143 



Plectosiylus 261 



Plesiosaurus 366 



Plicatula 46, 142 



Podocnemidida- 417, 420, 423, 424 



Podocnemis 436, 417 



Poebrotherium 361 



Polygyra 313, 333 



Polymastodon 131, 135 



Polyonyx 192, 199, 200 



Polyphemopsis 263 



Polyphemus 189 



Polypterus 418 



Populus 92, 434 



Porcellana 192 



Porites 75, 144 



Portulaca 279, 280 



Poitunus 190, 192 



Potamides 145 



Potamopyrgus 327, 328 



Procamelus 361 



Produclus 244 



Prog an ochel y s 423 



Prugannsauria 421 



Proserpina 332 



Pioserpinida; 332 



Protohippus 368 



Protomyxa 62 



Primus 83, 92, 434 



Psammobiidse 48 



Psephurus 418 



Pseudemys 41 



Pseudosubulina 312 



Psilorhinus 94, 442 



Ptelea 76 



Piilodus 126, 127, 134 



Ptilonorhynchina.' 449 



Piilonorhynchus 449 



Plilorhis 447 



Pugettia 215 



Pupa 315 



Pupidae 145. 315 



Pu rpui a 45 , 51 



Pyramidella 52 



Pyramidellidiv 52 



Pyrgula 329 



Pyrgulopsis 329, 330 



Pyrite 464 



Pyrola 434 



Py rrh oc o ra X 447 



Pyrula 52, 143 



Pyrus 91 



Python 236 



Pyxis 418 



Quercus 83 



Ramularia 84 



Rana 461, 463 



Ranella 52 



Rangifer 224 



Raphyrus 122 



Retzia 244 



Rheum 77 



Rliinoceros 362 



Rhinotrichum 86 



Rhipidornis 448 



Rhombopora ; 244 



Rhus 90 



Rhynchonella 244, 247 



Rhynchonycteris 451 



Rhytisma 93 



Ribes 434 



Richardia 278 



Ricinula 51, 5S 



RissoidK 54 



Rissoina 54 




1891.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADEPHIA. 



525 



Rottbcellia 293 



Rubus 434 



Ruellia 272 



Rumina 318 



Sagitta 68 



Salix 84, 276 



Sambucus 78, 433 



Sanguinolaria 48 



Saxifraga 81 



Sayornis 435 



Scalai 51 



Scalpda; 51 



Scaphites 159, 160 



Sea phopod a 49 



Scelidoiherium 364 



Sceloporus 459, 461 



Schazicheila 332 



Scliizaster 215 



Schizodus 249 



Schizomycetes 11 



Schizophrys 215 



Schizothyrella 78 



Schlegelia 448 



Scleroslomum 235 



Sella 53 



Seiuius 437 



Selenacodon 128, 129, 130, 133 



Seleucides 448 



Semele 48 



Semelidte 48 



Senecio 90 



Septocylindrium 84 



Septoneina 92 



Septoria 76, 79 



Sericulus 449 



Sesaima 181, 198, 200, 216 



Shepherdia 87 



Sibbaldius 474-478 



Sigaret us 54 



Siliquaria 143 



Siphonalia 473 



Siphonaria 45, 49 



Sipbonariidaj 49 



Siredon 4')3 



Sistrum 45 



Sitta 438 



Smilacina 434 



Smilax 93 



Solariidie 54 



Solarium 54 



Soleniscus 260-263 



Sohdago 80, 272 



Somateria 480 



Sophora 77 



Spartina 302 



Spatularia 418 



Spectrum 355 



Sphaerella 82, 90 



Sphaerodoma 262 



Spbceronema 78 



Spbreropsis 79 



Sphecoiheres 449 , 450 



Sph iroceph al us liil 



Spinus 436 



Spiri fera 244 



Spirula 55 



Spizella 436 



Spondylidie 46 



Spondylus 46 



Spoiidesmium 92 



Sporobolus 299, 300 



Squilla 184, 185, 199, 200 



Stagodon 131, 132, 133. 240 



Stagodontidne 131 



Si agonospora 81 



Staphylea 77 



Staurotypidae 417, 420, 423 



Staurotypus 430 



Stegocephalia 42 1 



Stemonitis 390-392 



Stenogyra 333 



Stenogyridae 318 



Stenopus 312 



Slephanocidaris 214 



Stereognathid?e 133, 134 



Stereognathus 128, 129, 239 



S:ernothffiridK 417, 420, 423 



Sternothserus 417, 423 



Siipa 296 



Stomatella 71 



Stomatopoda 184 



Straparollus 255, 256 



Streptophorus 463 



Streptopus •. 434 



Streptorhy nchus 244 



Streptostyla 311 



Strombida; 52 



Strombus 52 



Strongylocentrotus 214, 480 



Sturnida; 441 



Succinea 318 



Succineidje 318 



Sylvania 437 



Symplocarpus 277 



Sy nocladia 244 



Syphyrapicu s 4 35 



Tagelus 48 



Taphrosph y s 423 , 424 



Taxus 434 



Tellina 48, 143 



Tellinidie 48 



Telmatotherium 107-116 



Temnopleurus 214 



Terebra 49, 472 




526 



PROCEEDINGS OE THE ACADEMY OF 



[1891. 



Terebrid^ 49 



Terebratella 167-170, 172-170, 526 



Terebratula 165-170, 175, 247 



Teiebratulina 167 



Terrape ne 422, 426 



Testacellida- 311 



Testudinata 421 



Testudinidce 417, 420, 423 



Testudo -.363, 417 



Thalassodulys .419, 425, 458 



Thelidomiis 333 



Themisto 479, 481 



Th eromora 421 



Thoracosau i us 365 



Th rinacodus 264 



Thylacodes 471 



Thysanopliora 313 



Tiaiella 434 



Titanotherium 362 



Tita;a 86 



Topaz 464 



Toreumatica 214 



Torinia 54 



Tornatina 49 



Tornali nidse 49 



Torula 87 



Toxochelys 414 



Toxopneustes 214, 337 



Trachydornia 257 



Triana 318 



Trichecus 365 



Trichia 395 



Trichina 352 



Trifolium 82 



Triforidi\! 63 



Triforis ^ 53 



Trillium 434 



Triodopsis 313, 314 



Trionychia 418, 420, 428 



Trionychidre 420 



Trionvx 366, 418 



Tiipriodon 128, 129, 130, 133 



Tripriodontidre 128, 130 



Trip>acum 292 



Triton 45, 52 



Tritonidi^; 52 



Tritylodon 237 



Tritylodontida- 125, 135 



Trivia 52 



Trochida; 54, 72 



Trochilus 435 



Troglodytes 437, 438 



Tropidemys 425 



Truncatella 54 



Truncatellida? 54 



Trypanosoma 1 0-12 , 66 



Turbinella 50 



Turbinellidiie 50 



Turbinidae 54 



Turdus 438 



Turritella 53, 142 



Turritellidit 53 



Tyrannus 435 



Uintamastix 369 



Uintatherium 368, 369 



Urnatella 352 



Urocissa 441, 442 



Uroleuca 443 



Urosalpi n x 51 



Vaginulus 333 



Valvata 326 



Valvatidce 326 



Vampy rops 400-405 



Veneridii; 47 



Venus 47, 141, 142, 143 



Veratrutn 78 



Vermetidtv 53 



Vermetus 472 



Vermi cu laria 53, 78 



Vespertilio 208, 209 



Vesperugo 336 



Vesperus 466 



Viburnum 434 



Vilfa 299 



Viola 434 



Vireo 436 



Vitis 93, 275 



Vola 473 



Volutella 93 



Voriicella 10-13 



Waldheimia 167-171, 172 



Xanihomelus 448 



Xanthoura 444 



Xenophora 54 



Xenophoridse 54 



Xiphogorgia 177 



Xiphosura 1 89 



Zen ai du ra 435 



Zeuglodon 361 



Zizia 83 



Zonites 312, 406 



Zygodesmus 87 



Errata. — Notes on some recent Brachiopoda. By \Vm. H. Dall. 



Terebratella transversa p. 172, line 1, for figs. 8 and 9, read figs. 6 and 7. 

 Terebratella occidenlalis, p. 173, 1. 14 for figs. 6 and 7, read fig.s. 8 and 9. 




1891.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



527 



GENERAL INDEX, 

 1891. 



Additions to the Museum, 510. 



Alcantara, Dom Pedro de, announce- 

 ment of death of, 466. 



Allen, Harrison, M. D. Pedomorphism, 

 208. Leidy memorial address, 267 

 Description of a new species of 

 Vampyrops, 335, 400. On the 

 wings of Bats, 335. On a new genus 

 of Vespertilionidae, 451, 467. The 

 influence exerted on tlie tongue by the 

 position of the teeth, 451. Change 

 of name in a genus of bats. 466. 



Atriendment to By-Laws, 457. 



Baker, Frank C. Notes on a collection 

 of shells from Southern Mexico, 45. 

 Remarks on the Muricida; with des- 

 criptions of new species of shelU, 56. 



Baur, Dr. G. Notes on some little 

 known American fossil tortoises, 411. 



Biddle, A. Sydney, announcement of 

 death of, 208. 



Biological and Microscopical Section, 

 report of, 496. 



Botanical Section, report of, 500. 



Brinton, D. G. Report of Professor of 

 Ethnology and Archaeology, 503. 



Brown, Amos P. On the young of 

 Baculites compiressus Say, 159. 



By-Laws, amendment to, 457. 



Chapman, Henry C, M. D. Leidy 

 memorial address, 267. A memoir 

 of Joseph Leidy, M. D., 335, 342. 

 Election as Curator, 335. 



Chapman, Henry C, M. D., and Albert 

 P. Brubaker, M. D. Researches 

 upon Respiration, 13. 



Committee of Arrangements for Memo- 

 rial Meeting, 266- 



Committees, Standing, for 1891, 9. 



Conchological Section, report of, 497. 



Cope, Edw. D. Award of Hayden 

 Memorial medal, 439. On a Fin- 

 back Whale (Balasnoptera) recently 

 stranded on the New Jersey Coast, 

 457, 474. 



Corresponding Secretary, report of, 485 



Curators, report of, 487. 



Dall, Wm. H. On the age of the Peace 

 Creek Beds, Florida, 120. Notes 

 on some recent Brachiopods, 1 72, 526. 



Dall, W. H. and H. A. Pilsbry. On 

 some recent Japanese Brachiopoda 

 with description of a species believed 

 to be new, 118, 165. 



Darrach, James, >L D. Leidy memo- 

 rial address, 267. 



Dixon, Samuel G., M. D. Report of 

 experiments now being pursued in 

 the Bacteriological Laboratory of the 

 Academy, 161. 



Earle, Charles. Paloeosyops and allied 

 genera, 106. A memoir on the genus 

 Palajosyops Leidy, and its allies, 335. 



Elections during 1891,508. 



Ellis, J. B. and Benjamin M. Everhart. 

 New species of iungi from various 

 localities, 76. 



Entomological Section, report of 499. 



Eyerman, John. Preliminary notice of 

 some minerals from the Serpentine 

 Rocks near Easton, 439, 464. 



Ford, John. Description of new species 

 of Anctus and Oliva, 97. 



Foote, A. E. Geological features of 

 meteoric iron locality in Arizona, 

 407. A new meteoric iron from 

 Garrett County, Maryland, 455. 



Gibson, Henry C, announcement of 

 death of, 466. 



Goldsmith, Edward. Basanite from 

 Crawford Co., Indiana, 9, 99. 



Green, Ashdown H. Description of a 

 specimen of Chirolophus polyactoce- 

 phalus, 73, 105. 



Greenland Expedition, 409, 494. 



Hayden Memorial Geological Award, 

 Committee on, 410. Report of award, 

 439. 



Heilprin, Angelo. Geological re- 

 searches in Yucatan, 73, 136. Rate 




528 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1891. 



of coral growth, 75. Physiography 

 of Greenland, 410. Report of 

 Curators, 487. Report of West Green- 

 land Expedition, 494. Report of 

 Professor of Invertebrate Paleontol- 

 ogy, 502. 



Hunt, William, M. D. Leidy memo- 

 rial address, 4:)9. 



Index to Genera, 518. 



Ives, J. E. Cru.stacea from the northern 

 coast of Yucatan, the harbor of Vera 

 Cruz, the west coast of Florida and 

 the Bermuda Islands, 118, 176. 

 Echinoderms and Arthropods from 

 Japan, 122, 210. Echinoderms from 

 the Bahama Islands, 268, 337. 

 Reptiles and Batrachians of Northern 

 Yucatan, 439, 458. Echinoderms 

 and Crustaceans collected by the 

 West Greenland Expedition of 1891, 

 466, 479. 



Tay, John C, announcement of death 

 of, 455. 



Keyes, Charles, R. Fossil faunas of 

 Central Iowa, 159, 242. 



Kingsbury, Charles A., M. D., an- 

 nouncement of death of, 4'-i9. 



Knight, S. R., M. D., announcement of 

 death of, 455. 



Koenig, Geo. A. On Paramelaconite 

 and the associated minerals, 164, 

 284. 



LeConte, John, announcement of death 

 of, 268. 



Lee, John G., M. D., announcement of 

 death of, 410. 



Eeidy, Joseph, M. D. Note on the 

 Boring Sponge of the Oyster. 122. 

 Notice of some Entozoa, 159, 234. 

 Announcement of death of, 266. 

 Resolutions of regret, 266. Memorial 

 meeting, 267. 



Lennig, Charles, announcement of 

 death of, 74. 



Librarian, report of, 485. 



Marsh, O. C. Note on Mesozoic 

 Mammalia, 208, 237. 



Massey, William, announcement of 

 death of, 123. 



Meehan, Thomas. Contributions to 

 the life-histories of plants, No. VI, 

 267, 269. Contributions to the life- 

 histories of plants. No. VII, 466. 

 Report of Botanical Section, 500. 



Memorial Meeting on the occasion of 

 the death of Dr. Joseph Leidy, 267, 

 409. 



Mineralogical and Geological Section, 



report of, 502. 



Morris, J. Cheston, M. D. An hypo- 

 thesis as to the nature and origin of 

 germ force, 73. 



Nolan, Edw. J., M. D. Leidy memo- 

 rial address, 267. Report of Record- 

 ing Secretary, 482. Report of Libra- 

 rian, 485. 



Officers for 1892, 508. 



Ornithological Section, formation of, 

 268. Organization of, 409. Report 

 of, 504. 



Osborn, Henry F. A review of the 

 Cretaceous Mammalia, 73, 124. 



Pilsbry, H. A. Note on the soft parts 

 and dentition of Stomatella, 71. On 

 land and fresh-water mollusks 

 collected in Yucatan and Mexico, 

 268, 310. Mollusca from Nantucket, 

 Mass., 406. New and hitherto un- 

 figured Japanese mollusks, 455, 471. 

 The newest species of West Indian 

 land shells, 456. On some new 

 Unionidse, 466. Report of Concholo- 

 gical Section, 497. 



Professor of Ethnology and Archaeology, 

 report of, 503. 



Professor of Invertebrate Paleontology, 

 report of, 502. 



Professor of Invertebrate Zoology, 507. 



Rand, Theodore D. The sandstones 

 of Chester \'alley, Pennsylvania, 119. 

 Report of Mmeralogical and Geolog- 

 ical Section, 502. 



Rand, Theodore D., William W. Jefferis 

 and J. T. M. Cardeza, M.D. Mineral 

 localities of Philadelphia and vicinity, 

 208. 



Rathvon, S. S., announcement of death 

 of, 161. 



Recording Secretary, report of, 482. 



Redfield,John H. Report of Botanical 

 Section, 500. 



Report of the Biological and Micro- 

 scopical Section, 496. 



Report of Botanical Section, 500. 



Report of Conchological Section, 497. 



Report of Corresponding Secretary, 485. 



Report of Curators, 487. 



Report of Entomological Section, 499. 



Report of Librarian, 485. 



Report of Mineralogical and Geological 

 Section, 502. 



Report on the operations of the West 

 Greenland Expedition, 494. 



Report of Ornithological Section, 504. 



Report of the Professor of Ethnology 

 and Archaeology, 503. 




1891.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



529 



Report of the Professor of Invertebrate 

 Paleontology, 502. 



Report of the Profe-sor of Invertebrate 

 Zoology, 507. 



Report of the Recording Secretary, 482. 



Rex, Geo. A., M. D. New American 

 Myxomycetes, 335, 389. Hemiar- 

 ceria clavata Pers., 407. 



Rhoads, Samuel N. The birds of 

 Southeastern Texas and Southern 

 Arizona observed during May, June 

 and July, 1891,439. 



Ryder, John A. On two new and un- 

 described methods of contractility 

 manifested by a filament of proto- 

 plasm, 10. An attempt to illustrate 

 some of the primary laws of mechan- 

 ical evolution, 62. 



Schseffer P. W., announcement of death 

 of, 208. 



Schomburg, Richard M., announce- 

 ment of death of, 399. 



Sciibner, F. Lamson. Mexican grasses, 

 208, 292. 



Sharp, Benjamin, M. D. On a prob- 

 able new species of Bipalium, 120. 



Sharp, Benjamin M. D., and William 

 C. Hughes, M. D. On bows and 

 arrows and other implements found 

 among the Arctic Highlanders, 451. 

 Report of Corresponding Secretary, 

 485. Professor of Invertebrate Zool- 

 ogy, 507. 



Shufeklt, R. W., M. D. On the 



external characters of a foetal Rein- 

 deer and other notes, 118, 224. A 

 study of the fossil Avifauna of the 

 Equus Beds of the Oregon Desert, 

 439. 



Skinner, Henry, M. D. Report of 

 Entomological Section, 499. 



Smith, Aubrey H., announcement of 

 death of, 208. 



Smith, Charles E., election as member 

 of Council. 268. 



Stone, Witmer. On the Genus Psilor- 

 hinus Riippell, 73, 94. Catalogue of 

 the Corvidae, Paradiseidaj and Orio- 

 lidae in the Collection of the Acad- 

 emy of Natural Sciences of Phila- 

 delphia, 160, 441. The summer 

 birds of Harvey's Lake, Luzerne Co., 

 Penna., with remarks on the faunal 

 position of the region, 399, 431. 

 Report of Ornithological Section, 

 504. 



Trevor, John B., announcement of death 

 of, 9. 



Trotter, Spencer, M. D. Effect of 

 environment in the modification of 

 the bill and tail of birds, 118. 



Turner, John, announcement of death 

 of, 457. 



Willcox, Joseph. Leidy memorial 

 address, 267. 



Wingate, Harold. Report of Biological 

 and Microscopical Section, 496. 





PROCEEDINGS 



ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES 



PHILADELPHIA 



1891, 



committee of publication: 

 Thomas Meehax, John H. Eedfield, 



Edw. J. Nolan, M. D., Angelo Heilprin. 



Charles E. Smith. 



Editor: EDWARD J. NOLAN, M. D. 



PHILADELPHIA: 

 ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES, 



LOGAN SQUARE. 



1892. 




Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. 



January 29, 1892. 



I hereby certify that printed copies of the Proceedings for 1891 have been 

 presented to the Academy and distributed as follows : — * 



Ta 



EDWARD J. NOLAN, 



Recording Secretary. 



PHILADELPHIA: 

 BINDER t KELLY, PRINTERS. 




LIST OF CONTRIBUTORS. 



PVi//i reference to the sez'eral articles contributed by each. 



For Verbal Communications see General Index. 



Allen, Harrison, M. D. Description of a new Species of Vampyrops 400 



On a new Genus of Vespertilionida; 467 



Baker, Frank C. Notes on a Collection of Shells from Southern Mexico 45 



Remarks on the Muricidie with Description of new Species of Shells... 56 



Baur, G. Notes on some little known American Fossil Tortoises 411 



Chapman, Henry C, M. D. A Memoir of Joseph Leidy, M. D. (with 



portrait.) 342 



Chapman, Henry C, M. D. and Albert P. Brubaker, M. D. Researches 



upon Respiration. (Plates I, II, III.) 13 



Cope, Edw. D. On a Fin-back Whale (Balsenoptera) recently stranded on 



the New Jersey Coast 474 



Dall, Wm. H. Notes on some recent Brachiopods 172, 526 



Dall, Wm. H. and H. A. Pilsbry. On some recent Japanese Brachiopoda 



with description of a Species believed to be new. (Plate IV.) 165 



Dixon, Samuel G., M. D. Report of Experiments being pursued in the 



Bacteriological Laboratory of the Academy 161 



Earle, Charles, Palseosyops and allied Genera 106 



Ellis, J. B. and Benjamin M. Everhart. New Species of Fungi from various 



localiti es 76 



Eyerman, John. Preliminary Notice of some Minerals from the Serpentine 



Rocks near Easton 464 



Ford, John. Description of new Species of Anctus and Oliva 97 



Goldsmith, Edward. Basanite from Crawford Co., Indiana 99 



Green, Ashdown H. Description of a specimen of Chirolophus polyacto- 



cephalus 105 



Heilprin, Angelo. Geological Researches in Yucatan 136 



Ives, J. E. Crustacea from the Northern Coast of Yucatan, the harbor of 



Vera Cruz, the West Coast of Florida and the Bermuda Islands. 



(Plates V, VI.) 176 



Echinoderms and Arthropods from Japan, (Plates VII, VIII, IX, X, 



XI, XII.) ". 210 



Echinoderms from the Bahama Islands. (Plate XVI.) 337 



Reptiles and Batrachians of Northern Yucatan 458 



Echinoderms and Crustaceans collected by the West Greenland Expedi- 

 tion of 1891 479 




Keyes, Charles R. Fossil Faunas of Central Iowa 242 



Koenig, Geo. A. On Paramelaconite and Associated Minerals 284 



Leidy, Joseph, M. D. Notice of some Entozoa 234 



Marsh, O. C. Note on Mesozoic Mammalia 237 



Meehan, Thomas. Contributions to the Life-history of Plants, No. VI. 

 (On the Causes affecting Variation in Linaria vulgaris. On the Struc- 

 ture of the Flowers in Dipteracanthus macranthus. Aerial Roots in 

 Vitis vulpina. Additional note on the order of Flowering in the 



Catkins of Willows. Self fertilizing Flowers.) ; 269 



Osborn, Henry F. A review of the Cretaceous Mammalia 124 



Pilsbry, H. A. Note on the soft part and dentition of Stomatella 71 



On Land and Fresh-water Mollusca collected in Yucatan and Mexico. 



(Plates XIV, XV.) 310 



New and hitherto unfigured Japanese Mollusks. (Plates XVII, XVIII, 



XIX.) '. :* 471 



Rex, Geo. A., M. D. New American Myxomycetes 389 



Ryder, John A. An Attempt to Illustrate some of the Primary Laws of 



Mechanical Evolution 62 



Scribner, F. Lamson. Mexican Grasses. (Plate XIII.) 292 



Schufeldt, R. W., M. D. On the External Characters of a Foetal Reindeer 



and other notes 224 



Stone, Witmer. On the Genus Psilovhinus Riippell 94 



The Summer Birds of Harvey's Lake, Luzerne Co., Penna., with 



Remarks on the Faunal Position of the Region 431 



Catalogue of the Corvidce, Paradiseidte and Oriolidre in the Collection 

 of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia 441 






a- 

 en 





or: 



C3 




CHAPMAN AND BRUBjiKER ON RESPIRATION. 




P^OC. ACAD. .NAT. 3C1. PHIlA. 13^1 



10= 



ctr 



^^■^-^ 



< p ; -^-^--r-S ^ 



C/O 









PROC. ACAD. "-JAT. SCI. PHILA. 1891 



CHAPMAN AND BRUBAKER ON RESPIRATION. 





PROC. ACAD. -..AT. SCI. PHILA. 1691. 



PL. IV. 



9 



DALL & PILSBRY. ON JAPANESE BRACHIOPODA. 





PROC. ACA,:). NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1891. 



Cve's. •IkA'. 



IVES. CRUSTACEA FROM YUCATAN ETC. 





PP.OQ. ACAD. NAT. ;CI. PHILA, 18^ 



PL. VI 



C) _i^i, , O 



^.^-««^10^ 



-«-<c®r=ci 



lve£. 4£l. 



IVES, CRUSTACEA FROM YUCATAN ETC. 





PRCC: ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1891. 



PL. VII. 



p. J. Lutz, <K1. 



IVES, JAPANESE ECHINODERMS, ETC. 





Pf^OC. ACAD. NAT. 5CI. PHILA. IS9I. 



PL. VIII. 



E. J. Lutz, del. 



IVES, JAPANESE ECHINODERMS, ETC, 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1891 



PL. IX. 





E. J. Lutz, del. 



IVES, JAPANESE ECHINODERMS, ETC. 





PROC. ACAO. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1891. 



PL. X. 



E.J. Lutz, del. 



IVES, JAPANESE ECHINODERMS, ETC. 





PriOC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHiLA. 1891. 



PL. XI. 



E. J. Luiz, del. 



IVES, JAPANESE ECHINODERMS, ETC. 





PROG ACAD NAT. SCi. PHiLA 



J. E. Ives, del. 



IVES, JAPANESE ECHINODERMS, ETC. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILAD., 1891. 



PL. XIII. 



SCRIBNER, MEXICAN GRASSES, 





PROG: ACAD. NAT. SGI. PHILA. 1891 



PI.. XIV. 



PILSBRY, MOLLUSCA OF YDCATAN AND 





PROC, ACAD. NAT. SC!. PHILA. I! 



^ir'"" 





PILSBRY, MOLLUSCA OF YUCATAN AND MEXICO, 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1891. 



PL. XVI. 





^^h 



\ ' /\. i > 



J. E. Ivo-s, del. 



IVES, BAHAMA ECHINODERM^ 







PROC. ACAD. MAT. SCI. PHIl.A. I?' 



PL. XVI! 



PILSBRY, JAPANESE MOLLUSCA. 





Proc.Acad.Nat. Sci.Phila. 1891. 



Plate XrX. 



PILSBRY,JAP.4NESE MOLLUSCA. 













QH Academy of natural sciences 

 1 of Philadelphia 



A 2 Proceedings 



BiologJct) 

 & MedicaJ 

 ScmJ* 



PLEASE DO NOT REMOVE 

 CARDS OR SLIPS FROM THIS POCKET 



UNIVERSITY OF TORONTO LIBRARY 





